
server 

an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's
Vol. XI, No. 64 
Monday, january 24, 1977 

Paper meal tickets save students time 
by Marian Ulicny and give a brand new number." 
Senior Staff Reporter· In addition. the meal cards will 
eliminate the need for repeated 

Numbered meal cards have re­re-inking of the ID meal number, 
placed meal numbers on ID cards Price noted. 
and temporary yellow meal ~;tickers The system is new to the 
as . a convenience. according to checkers. Price states. "The initial 
Edmund Pri~e. director c•f food problem will be checking the faces 
services. against the person, since the ID is 
"Evervone knows we had a few included with the card , but it 
problems last semester with !D's," would be the same with the other." 
Price stated. "Some peopl( ended he added 
up with six or seven yellow stickers Price admitted the meal cards 
on top of one another if they came presented a problem "difficult to 
in every two weeks for l' new one. administer'' to girls who carry their 
This was an inconvenience to the !D's on key chains. "The part 
students." that's the real difficulty is to have 
Price viewed the new cards as a the ID and the meal card to­
time-saving device. "The person gether," he states. adding, · 
doesn't have to wait until his ID "That's why we provided the 
comes in for a meal number. We packets which will keep them 
can make one up immediately for together and cut down on losses." 
him. Off-campus people can also According to Price, the meal 
get meal cards immediately," he cards are a temporary program this 
added. semester ''just to serve the present 
"We'd rather use the ID card if need." He added, "We hope that we could. but it would at least we can develop a system better eliminate the problem we had than this. but there are so many before with so many changes," different ways to do it. Right now, Price explained. "When a person we're negotiating, but nothing lost an ID card, we would temporar­definite has been decided so far." ily red-line the meal number on the "We're not doing this to make checker's sheets until a new ID was obstacles for the students. We're made up. This way, we're using a trying to eliminate them, "Price completely new series of numbers. stressed. "Our ultimate bene-If a meal card is lost. we 'II just ficiaries have to be the cross of that number permanently students." 
Murphy runs uncontested in today's student election 
by Marti Hogan nominated herself earUer but Jater 
St. Mary's Editor withdrew. Bagglano, who Is 
Special Events Chairperson for St. 

Sophomore music major Kathy Mary's Social Commission stated, Murphy Is running uncontested for "I decided I'd rather stay on Social the position of VIce President of Commission." Student Affairs in today's eltoctlon. Murphy Is a member of St. 
"She needs 50 percent pitts one Mary's Student Assembly and the person of the number of fleOple music department representative who vote yes to win," said Mluy Lu to the Academic CouncU. BUek, student body president. "It Students may vote today from 10 doesn't matter hvw many Jleople a.m. to 4:30 p.m. in the LeMans vote." lobby and from 4:30 to 6 p.m. In the 
JoAnn Baggfano, a junior, had dining hall. 

Carter''s inauguration 
Jimmy Carter was inaugurated the 39th President of the United States Thursday, january 20, 1977. Observer editors Gregg Bangs, Tim O'Reiley and Tom O'Neil were in Washington D.C. to <over the story. A detailed account of the inaugural activit;..:s and t11e happenings about town will appear in tomorrow's edition ol fhe Observer. 
~---------------------------------------------~ 

.. 

Snow is sometimes a little overwhelming, and this is one of those times! One unsuspecting student left his car here over break, and returned to only half of it. [photo by Tony Chifari] 
Numerous thefts reported 
by Mike Moses Following the chase and the was confiscated by the police as 
Staff Reporter discovery of vandalism at LaFor­evidence. However, there was a 
tune, two other acts of vandalism tape deck missing from the house, 
The International Students were discovered. which are belonging to one of the residents, Lounge and Offtce on the bottom believed to have occurred also in Judy Roberts. which was never floor of LaFortune Student Center the early morning hours of Jan. 6. accounted for. South Bend police were broken into over the Christ· Security discovered a broken refused to release information of mas break. window on the North side of the the burglary. 
The break-in was discovered at 6 Galvin Life Science Building. No One resident of the house also 
a.m. on January 6 by the custodian entry had been made into the had her suitcase stolen as she was of the building. according to Arthur building. returning from Christmas break. Pears. director of campus security. Security also discovered that a Barb Curlee was let off the Pitt 
The glass window of the ~outh· soda-pop machine onthe fourth Club bus in front of her house, 
east door leading to the Huddle floor of O'Shaughnessy, near the around 12:30 a.m., Tuesday morn­stairwell had been broken out, WSND office, had been broken ing, Jan. 18 where she unloaded her Pears said. The vandals entered into. Tracks outside the building belongings. the building by breaking through a indicated that the vandals had After entering the house with 
screen and window looking down made their entrance through an some of her belongings she return­onto the International Students unlocked first floor window. Dean ed outside to get her suitcase. Lounge, according to Fr. Dan Winer, manager cif Notre Dame Curlee then saw a car pull up and O'Neil, director of International vending, estimated that 10 or 15 was someone on the passenger side 
Student Affairs. dollars had been stolen, with about of the car take the suitcase. 
Once in the lounge, the vandals 20 or 25 dollars worth of damage She did not see the occupants of then broke into the adjacent office, done to the machine. the car, but described the car as O'Neil said. The lounge and office There was no direct evidence to being large, white, with· a black were -both ransacked. but valuable link the two masked persons with vinyl top. and possibly a '65 or'_66 items were overlooked in favor of the three other incidents of vandal­model Bonneville. only six or seven dollars in cash, ism. Furthermore, there was no taken from an envelope lying on a direct evidence to link the three 
Deactivated alarm causes burglary desk. Nothing else was stolen, incidents of vandalism with each according to O'Neil. other. Another burglary occurred over However, the presence of the Christmas break at 509 North Eddy two masked persons in O'Shaugh­Street.
Masked youths sighted 

nessy, and the occurrence of the Neighbors of the two-story house chase and the vandalism all in the told Charles Moore, the landlord. Prior to the discovery of vandal­same short span of time, would that police had broken a window place the two as suspects, accord­
ism at LaFortune, and shortly after and set off a burglar alarm. 
4:17 a.m. on Jan. 6, two persons ing to Pears. According tD Moore, the vandals later described as young adults apparently fled before the police wearing ski masks were sighted by SSO damage In Computer Center arrived. After they were unable to a security guard on the grounds contact him, Moore said that the near O'Shaughnessy Hall. In an unrelated incident, a police then left the scene of the 
When seeing the guard. the two cigarette machine on the south end crime. leaving the window open began running. ot the Computer Center was broken and the alarm deactivated. 
A footchase ensued which led to into Jan. 14. Winter estimated the Moore did not know of the the Nieuwland Science Hall before cash loss to be about 15 dollars, vandalism until the next day when the suspects doubled back. to the and said that it would cost about 45 he went out to the house and stadium. The pursuit on foot or SO dollars to repair the machine, talked to the next door neighbors. ended unsuccessfully when a car due to extensive damage. The Moore said that two stereos had believed to be carrying the two Computer Center was open during been stolen from the house which suspects was seen leaving secion break. allowing access to the he believed were taken between CJ of the parking lot at a high building, according to Winter. the time the police left the house 
speed.· Burglary occurred off-campus New Year's Eve. and when he Pears said there was more than · over the Christmas break at 902 came by the house the next day. one security officer involved in the Notre Dame Ave .. the residence of The five students who rent the footchase, but he declined to say four women students. Burglars house could not be reached for how many. had broken into the back door of comment. South Bend police 
The two persons wearing masks the house, and were removing a refused to release information on had also reportedly been seen. consol color T.V. when the police the burglary. before the chase, inside O'Shaugh· arrived after being alerted by a The Off-Campus Housing Office nessy Hall by another party, whose next-door neighbor. does not yet have the complete name was withheld. It was not Two persons were arrested, one listing of off-campus burglaries known whether the two were a juvenile . the other around 18 which occurred over the Christmas responsible for the break-in at years of age, according to one of break, according to Fr. John Mul­r aFortune. the residents. The color television cahy, director of student housing. 
the observer Monday, january 24, 1977 
,.---News Briefs--....... 
1=(========Intematio nal 

fOne killed 

in Madrid demonstration 
MADRID,Spain • Riot police swinging truncheons and firing rubber bullets battled thousands of Communist­led demonstrators in the heart of Madrid yesterday. Authorities said one student was shot dead by unknown gunmen and an undetermined number of police and protesters were injured. The demonstrators, estimated at 8,000 by the government, were demanding amnesty for Spain's political prisoners. 
~========:=::::::::::::::::::::=====National 



Ford accepts position 
PHILADELPHIA • Former President Gerald R. Ford has accepted the presidency of Eisenhower Exchange Fellowships Inc .. an official of the non-profit study organization said yesterday. Ford's primary job in the salaried position will be to promote the program both in the United States and abroad. 

Cabinet members sworn in 
WASHINGTON -A dozen members of Jimmy Carter's Cabinet took the oath of office yesterday in a White House ceremony. witnessed by the President, who called them "a superb group." Three other Cabinet-level nominees have yet to be approved by the Senate. and the President still must choose a CIA director. His first nominee withdrew last week in the face of strong Senate opposition. 
Senate to investigate ad laws 
WASHINGTON • Senate investigators are launching a 
probe  into  state  laws  that  restrict  or  prohibit  
advertising of pric es for eyegla sses.  Sen.  Gaylord  
Nelson,  D-Wis..  chairman  of  the  Small  Business  

subcommittee on monopoly, said the laws deny consumers the information necessary to make price comparisons, "forcing many to pay artificially high prices." 

,p: 0~..S~:~~~~ E~~~P~•oced by 
theology dept and catholic council on urban ministry, lib. aud. 




Second City returns for second show 
Tuesday, January 25, at the 7 pm --meeting, n d. alcoholics anonymous, library lounge. 

7 pm --nazz, irish brigade, professional singers, Iafortune center, $1 admission.
L ) 
St~ Mary's Programming Office in Moreau Hall (4-4176). Ticket prices are $2 for students and faculty and $3 for non-students. Tickets can also be purchased at the door Saturday night, but the box office will close at 8:15 p.m. 
Sports Layout: Greg Solman, 
Fred Herbst 
Typists: Sue Shellenburger, 
Mary Ann Keefe, Martha 
Fanning 
E.M.T.'; Karen Chiames 
Day Editor:Maureen O'Brien 
Copy Reader: Pat Cole 
LPhotographer: Tony Chifari 
l h•· Ob"•nt·r" puhll'>ht·rf Mondd~ throullh I nrf,t\o ond \\f't•~l" dunng th•· '>Umnwr "'">lon t'xt t>pl dunng tht• f'Xiln1 anrf Vd< JIIOn p<•rtOd'> fht> Ob-,t>rwr I'> publl'>hed by <,tudPnt<, ot thP Uolv"r"t\ of Notrt> Danw and St Mar~·, CoiiPgt• Sub'>< npt1on'> ma\ bP pun hawd tor $20 JH'r ~ !'dr ($10 p<•r '>f'm<''>lf'r) trom ThP Oh'>Pr­ver, Box Q. Notn· Danw, lndldna 4b'i'ib St>wnd Lla~'> po'>ldgt> pa1d. Notre Dame. Jndtana 4b'i'ib 
The Obst>rwr '" a mt>mbt>r of the A"'m td!Pd Prf'"'> AII reproduct 10n nghh arP rt•'l•rvt•rl 
by Debbie Dahrlfng Staff Reporter 

·The successful and popular co­medy team from Chicago, The Second City Touring Company, will perform this Saturday, Jan. 29 at 8 
p.m. in O'Laughlin Auditorium at St. Mary's. 
This will be the second perfor­
mance by The Second City for the 
ND-SMC community. They first 
appeared at St. Mary's last Novem­
ber 6. 

·'Second City received such a good response that we asked them to return for a second perfor­mance,'' said Mary Klassen, St. Mary's social commissioner. ''However, there were also a lot of other events happening on both campuses so quite a few people missed the performance. Because of this, we decided to ask Second City to return," Klassen said. 
The first appearance by The Second City was very successful. The team's skits revolved around the ND-SMC campuses. They played up the religious aspect of both campuses and the athletics at Notre Dame. 
The cast last November consist· ed of only seven members and they did not use any stage props. Only small props were used such as hats and glasses. 
"The performance this Saturday will be a completely different show from the previous one," Klassen said. ''Also, the cast will be different. In this way, the show will not be repetitious for the people who saw the first perfor­mance." 
Reserved tickets for The Second City can. be purchased beginning 

Wednesd~ay night tasters sought 
by 1\~uy Mungovan Senior Staff Reporter 

The Notre Dame-St. Mary's World Hunger Coalition will launch a pledge drive for the spring semester fast program on Tuesday, Jan. 25 in the dining halls. Terry Barrett. Coalition representative, announced yesterday. 
··Last semester. a record 886 students pledged to fast one night a week to demonstrate their conce·rn for the problem of hunger," Bar­rett stated. According to Food Service Director Edmund T. Price, $6,645 from 8,860 meals was donated as a result. 
"Our goal for the current semes­ter is to recruit 1200 participants." Barrett projected. 
The Wednesday Night Fast Pro­gram will extend from Feb. 2 to May 4. 13 nights (excluding March break and finals week). For each meal pledged, the Notre Dame Food Service will again donate 75 cents, according to Jim Cycon, Pledge Drive chairman. 
"If a pledge is broken for one meal, however. the dining hall will not be obligated to contribute for any subsequent meals that a stu­dent skios," he explained. 
Pledge forms will be distributed and collected at the Tuesday even­ing meal. If necessary the forms can be handed in to the collectors or the student activities office before Friday. 
According to Doug Allen. coali­tion advisor. 75 percent of the money received will go to overseas relief agencies such as CORR, CARE. OXFAM or UNICEF, and 
25  percent  to  the  South  Bend  
Justice  and  Peace  Center  to  be  
distributed  to  the  poor  in  South  
Bend.  

"Each of the agencies has been thoroughly researched by the Coal-
Irish Brigade opens Nazz perfor1mances 
Last night the Notre Dame Soda) Commission opened another sem· ester of Nazz entertainment with a performance by a professional singing duo, the Irish Brigade. 
They will perform again tonight at 8 p.m. Admission is $1. . 
January 29th and 30th, ma·rks the return to the Nazz of Cin­cinnati's Arne Brav. Admission to the show, which was well-received last year, is also $1. 
The Nazz has undergone many changes to fulfill the need for an establishment in which both ama­teur and professional musical, theatrical, and other similar pro­ductions could take place. A new high quality sound amplification
•Y•temg;•ti" 
will make possible live recordings and demo tapes of Nazz events, while a new stereo sound syst•~m will provide continuous prerecord­ed music for intermissions betwe·en live performances and for di!;co dances. Food and drinks will be available. 
The !>chedule for the Grand Opening Week of the Nazz is Monday, Jan. 24 •• The Irish Brigade, 8-12 p.m.; Tuesday, Jan. 25 •• Billy Adams, 9-10 p.m.; Bill Mahr, 10-11 p.m.; Wednesday, Jan. 26 --John Steinman, 9-11 p.m.; Thursday, Jan. 27 •• David Shaheen and Greg Mandolini, 9-12 p.m.; Friday, Jan. 28 --N.D.'s first and second Jazz Combos, 9-12 p.m.; Saturday, Jan. 29 ·-ARNE BRAV, 8-12 p.m.; and Sunday, Jan. 30 ·-ARNE BRAV, 8-12 p.m. In the future the Nazz will stage performances on a regular basis Monday night through Saturday night. 
Urban Plunge meets tonight 

There will be a follow-up meet­ing for the 115 students who participated in the Urban Plunge program tonight at 7 p.m. in the Library Auditorium. 
Each of the student leaders will talk about his groups experience in the city in which they lived. For more information, contact Kathy Osberger at 7394. 
1t10n to insure that they are international in scope. and operate with maximum efficiency and mini­mum overhead," Allen explained. 
Off-campus students can also participate in the program by fasting one night a week and mailing the price of that meal to the Hunger Coalition. according to Barrett. 
"The purpose of the fast pro­gram is not only to contribute money to underdeveloped count­ries for food and development programs." Cycon explained. "We also hope to increase people's awareness of the problem by giving them an opportunity to share their overabundance." 
According to Cycon. "Thirty per cent of the world is consuming 50 percent of the world's grain. As a result. over 460 million people are starving in the world... 
When the fast program was initiated in the spring of 1975, the program raised only $1100. Last year. the "Wednesday Night Fast Program" brought in $4,000 first semester with almost 500 partici­oating and over $5,500 second semester with over 750 participa­ting. 
Tim Hiniker Coalition litun~ical chairman. has scheduled weekly masses for Wednesday nights at Walsh chapel. 
"The Mass will provide an alternative activity for those who will be fasting. since it takes place at the dinner hour." he stated. T~e. Notre Dame World Hunger 
Coahtwn  was  first  formed  in  
November.  1974. to  "educate the  
Notre  Dame  and  South  Bend  

community about global hunger" and to .raise money for the hungry. accordmg to Allen. Last semester. the Coalition also sponsored an Offering of Letters drive to support a food resolution in Congress. 
In addition to the fasting pro­gram and weekly masses, activities for this semester include periodic films and guest lectures. All fasters will be placed on a mailing list and sent newsletters through­out the semester informing them of additional Coalition activities. Approximately 40 Coalition mem­bers collect outside the Notre Dame 11nd St. Mary's dining halls this year. 
The hunger organization will sponsor a meeting Sunday, Jan. 30 at 7:30 in the Library Lounge for all members and interested students. 

The Nazz committee plans to f'll,_.,~~~,.._,.,.,~~~,.._,.,.,~~~,.._,.,.,~~,...lll'll~~~"­
present not mances, but ma, comedy related eventperform shouat 288-7878.  only poetrskits, s. Ald cal musical y readings, dra­discos and other nyone wishing to l David Shaheen  perfor­iSTUDENT UNION SOCIAL COMMISSION PRESENTS N.D.'s first Annual  
HALL SNOW  
SCULPTURE  
CONTEST  
THEME:FAME  
(famous people, places, things)  
sculpturing begins noon Thurs.  Jan27  
judgingFri. Jan.28 4:30 p.m. tstprize: $200  
2"dprize: $100  
3rd prize: $50  
for more info, contact your hall president  





Carter's amnesty program draws criticism 

Scwry No loy-a-way, No hold orWt, No phone or mall o..-den, All ,...._ to prio< ...., AI pricintll• on cash -carry baalo, AI d-Illon• ... mlnlmurM. 
FRI;E FRONT DOOR PARKING 
by Don Reimer Copy Editor 

President Jimmy Carter fulfilled a controversial campaign promise Friday issuing a full and uncondi­tional pardon for Vietnam draft evaders. 
The pardon did not apply to military deserters or those who used violence in evading the draft; however, Carter did order a study of those who received undesirable military discharges. The pardon applies to draft evasion betwl:en Aug. 14, 1964 and March 28, 1973. 
·'President Carter has done what he promised to do," University President Fr. Theodore Hesburgh commented Friday. "We sho•Jid appla~~ him for keeping his word. 
Hesburgh added that he hoped the military study would be com­pleted quickly because some men in this category served in Vietnam and ·'deserve our help.'' 
Carter's action drew critici;;m from both veterans and pro-am­nesty groups. 
Accordmg to the Associa1ed Press, the National Commander of the Veterans of Foreign Wars called Carter's pardon "a flagrant abuse of our established system of justice," and said Carter "has n·:>w established a precedent that allows a man to pick and choose whether or not to defend his country.'' 
The VFW claims to have 1.8 

million members. 
However, proamnesty group!; praised Carter's action but said the pardon should also extend to deserters, according to Associated Press reports. 
Carter's pardon could efft:ct several hundred thousand men who failed to register for or comply with the draft. But those most direcr.ly affected are approximately 16,000 men who were either convicted or are still being investigated for draft evasion, or who fled the country. 
The 8,800 men convicted in Federal Court of draft evasion are pardoned, while the investigations of 3,000 others will be dropped. 
Approximately 5,000 men who fled the country to avoid the draft can now return without fear of prosecution. If they renounc·~d their US citizenship, and wish to regain it; however, they must apply as aliens. 
The military study will cover nearly 250,000 soldiers who receiv­ed undesirable discharges for var­ious offenses, including absence. This study, which does not include those who were court-martialed, will examine the possibility of upgrading the bad discharges of large groups of men. 
Much of Carter's action reflected the recommendations of an amnes­ty study conducted by William Strauss and Lawrence Baskir, und­er the auspices of the Notre Dame Center for Civil Rights. The report, entitled "Reconciliation Aft·er Vietnam, " was submitted to Carter advisors several months ago. 
The report recommended a 41­point relief program for Vietnam era draft and military offenders, including: 
--military offenders convicted by 

court-martial for offenses in Viet­
nam or for refusing to serve in 
Vietnam should have their cases 
reviewed individually. 
--no relief should be offered ·to 

anyone convicted of combat relatt•d 
desertion or civilian-type crimes. 
--pardons should be extended t:o all persons convicted of draft offenses and other non-violent offenses related to the Vietnam War. 
--persons still facing prosecution 

for these offenses should have their 
cases dropped. 
The Carter program followed the report's~recommendations on civil­ian draft offenses but did not pardon those who committed chil disobedie~c~ or refuse~ to . p~.y 
taxes. "Ninety percent of our civilian proposal was adopted," Strauss said. 
"There is no doubt that the general outlines of our program were followed," Donald Kommers, director of the Center For Civil Rights commented. He added that he was "delighted" with the pardon, though it did not extend to military offenders as the Notre Dame report recommended. 
Kommers felt that Carter ''went as far as possible politically" in pardoning the civilian offenders. 
Strauss, however, stated there is "no valid difference" between many of the civilian and military offenders. 
SANDOCK'S FURNITURE , CARPET-WAY 

SALE HOURS: 
SUNDAY 1 'TIL 6 PM 


ALL CARPET 

••• of all 1st quality LEES and CABIN CRAFTS carpeting 
In the report Strauss points out that three-quarters of the military deserters were high school drop­outs and less than one percent ever graduated from college. The report also notes that most offenses were motivated by personal or family problems. 
"The military offenders, if any­thing, are more deserving," Struass said. He did note, however, that some of the military cases were more complicated, involving more serious offenses. 
Kommers does not expect the military study to proceed quickly because he says the whole dis­charge system must be reviewed. But he does not expect opposition by veteran groups to hinder the study. "The veterans may be more sympathetic to the plight of a military man," he said. 
"We'll all just hope and do all we can to make the ~ilitary part as generous as possible," Strauss said. 
Baskir and Strauss began the amnesty study on Dec. 1, 1975 at the request of Hesburgh, with a grant from the Ford foundation. Both men were formerly top offic­ials with the Ford Clemency Pro­gram. 
In researching their report Bas­kir and Strauss visited nine military bases; interviewed over one-hun­dred government officials, counsel­
* CHOOSE FROM 1700 PlECES! 
* PLEAS£ -NO DEALERS 
• EVERY STYLE IMAGINABLE 
5hov, twlot, plush, loop, twHd, cut/uncut, mlltl-level fiaured 
• BRING YOUR ROOM SIZES 
Snap up these val-• on the 1pot 
• LEES -CABIN CRAFTS QUALITY 
Our Country's finest, most fameus mills 
5
DELIVERY AVAILABLE n FJIIANCJNG Moderate Charge INSTALLATION AVAILABLE • AVAILABLE 
IDEAL FOR. PERFECT FOR • • TRAILERS 
DORMITORIES COnAGES 
APARTMENTS CLOSETS 
STUDY ROOM STATION WAGONS 
ANY ROOMS 
OTHER REMNANT GROUPS NOT LISTm 
• EVERY COLOR IMAGINABLE 
OoW .....  .....,........  Cwntel Aprkot  JonquN lavtwrne  Orion...,__,.,..  
Aquo limo ,.... Coin  s........ ....... A1o..o c.n••  A•ocodo ""-••" lohom. ltoprU.:o  Alulnttt. ............. INeiMM loJb•l  Ger...nhl ..."',,...,_,,,. l~~:~ttteG,..._  
Olivo  Copper  S.-.IH•  HJoc6nth  CkwdJJ•ct.  
Gr..n l•lge  Nougot ........  Jonq"il Hon•J'  Helio"o~ Cor1e1 l•.t  ,oatedCoc-Preuo lhlo  
Cormol  ••,.c  Iron••  1-.yGrMn  CkedonOU-..  
lron11• White  Autwmn ...al  .._.._.nto ........  Monderln Ocean Groen  Mont..o5an4 M"Hinlel..  
A1ure  Mor6no  ll•qu•  fw,.qwoiM  wtat.. o,....  

AREA'S LARGEST CARPET SPECIALTY STORE 
., 

'•' ' • '\., : ' ,.. J t -;. •• ~ ... ' 1"'," t .: .. 
ors, and affected individuals; and visited Canada and Sweden to speak with exiles. 
Much of the research into draft and military law was done by Notre Dame law students and much of the raw data was analyzed through Notre Dame's data processing fa­cilities. Also, South Bend was one of three cities in which a survey of men who were of draft age during the Vietnam era was taken to learn oftheir experiences with the draft. 
When the Notre Dame report was publicly released last week Hesburgh said it could "steer us toward a practical, comprehensive resolution of one of the major tragedies of the Vietnam era." 
,'I,· 
.·· ·,,',. 
the oavl"8• on to youl 
PfRFfCT FOR ••• 
BEDROOMS 
BATHROOMS 
KITCHENS 
BASEMENTS 

BUY NOW FOR. ••• FLOORS WALLS STEPS DECKS 
.. ' . ' . '
; \ 

*l plMDEMOilUM Of ¥lLUE! *A REVELRY OF SAVING! 
Coloual Lees! Titanic Cabin Crafts! The ware­house of these giants w.,.. glu"ecl with remnants, 1oac1ec1 with roH-endo, piece• accumulated from their grwatwst season ever, In such profusion as to throttt. their operation• Mar-completely..They had ta oell and Mil quickly -and that'• when "CARPIT-WAY" stopped ln. With o dramatic, hard caoh wipe-out offer, we bought e.,...., 11"81e piece we could at bare redr:-bottom-oncl now we pass 




·r~-------~-----t-h-e---ob--se_r_v_e_r----------------------~-----­
r Monday, january 24, 1977 
St. Mary's grade policy necessitates later reports 
by Jea:. Powley fessors report them. Staff Reporter St. Mary's policy is different . No strict schedule is enforced 
St. Mary's registrar has come because the registrar does not want under fire from many student body to force faculty members to give members unhappy about the nearly objective finals in order to meet the three-week wait for their first deadlines. This year, teachers semester grades. were asked to turn in their grades 
Most students received their as soon as possible, but no later gr;tdes either Jan. 6 or 7, more than Dec. 27. than a week after most of Notre 
With this system. very few rades 
Dame's approximately 8,000 
remained outstanding when theundergraduate amd graduate college's report cards were pro­students had received their grades. 
cessed Dec. 31 . 

According to Sister Francesca Kennedv stressed, however, thatKennedy. St. Mary's registrar. 
if their system failed to provide
Notre Dame sturl~ntsreceived their 
students with sufficient time togrades earlier because the Uni­decide whether or not they shouldversit<s faculty is required to return to St. Mary's, then strictersubmit its grades to the registrar and earlier deadlines could beno later than 48 hours after the implemented.
tina! exam. 

Approximately two days after exams are over. those grades which have been turned in are sent through! the computer and mailed out to the students. Late grades are sent out individually as pro-
by Tom Byrne ium last Wednesday night, Klein Senior Staff Reporter analyzed the problem of inflation
Second Griffin 
and explained how it might be 


FISH•••

One of President Jimmy Carter's controlled without a high level ofbook published top economic advisors provided unemployment. insight into the economic strategy Klein called "simple-minded"
A second collection of essays by 
'till you say

of the new administration during a the view of some economists thatthe University Chaplain Rev. Ro­three-day speaking engagement at the rate of inflation is determinedbert Griffin, C.S.C., has been Notre Dame last week. by the supply of money in the
published by Paulist Press. Entitled I Never Said I Didn't 
Dr. Lawrence Klein, of the economy. "It's a many-sided thing 


''STOP"

I.Gve You, the book brings together Univ~rsity of Pennsylvania, the and there are many kinds," he 27 short essays written previously coordmator for the Carter cam-said. for the Notre Dame student news­paign's economic task force pre-In Klein's view, a variety of 
Wednes~ays $2 •g

paper and its alumni magazine. sented two major lectures and factors are responsbile for price Griffin was graduated from participated in several seminars, increases. "In '74 and '75, when 
...JUSt •• 

Notre Dame in 1949 and ordained describing the view of the economy this country had its greatest period in 1954. He received an M.A. in that forms the basis for many of the of inflationary pressure, we had 
Wednesday night is Fish-lover's delight at 

English from the University in 1957 new president's programs. price pressure from energy and 
lucky Steer. "All you care to eat" of that tender, 

and pursued graduated study at "The problem of implementing food shortages. During this period, 
succulent fish filet, with its crispy, crunchy, 

Boston University. He taught the Democratic party platform is a 60 percent of our inflation was due 
golden outside. 

English at Stonehill College, North serious one," revealed Klein, who to these shortages and two dollar 
Your waitress comes back again and again,

Easton, Mass., before coming to stated that the realization of devaluations," he said. .'The 
until YOU say, "Stop."

Notre Dame in l967 as an assistant Carter's national health insurance other 40 percent was probably due 
Dinner special (served 4 to 9 p.m.) includes

rector of Keenan Hall. scheme is not likely in the next four to excessive demand pressure, the 
fries or baked potato, and our famous Salad Bar
usual type of inflation.

A member of the Campus Minis­years. 
with a great build-your-own tossed salad ...
Klein cited the spending during

try staff, Father Griffin was ap­Klein explained that even with the Vietnam was as the ••genesis of plus 8 other fruit and vegetable salads.
pointed University Chaplain in 
the "reordered priorities" of the our inflation." He pointed to large1974. 
new administration, such as re-sums spents spent on militaryPaulist Press previously publish­
Lucky Steer

duced defense spending, the im-hardward that was eventuallv de­ed a collection of his articles in 1973 mense cost of the plan is incompat-stroyed, depriving the econorlly ofunder the title In the Kingdom of ible with Carter's budgetary goals. a significant source of fixed ca:pital.
the I.Gnely God. 


Family Restaurants

He estimated the expense of the Inflation if a cause for concern total health care program to be 120 because it can lead to ••an extreme­
MICHIGAN (US 31) AND MAIN ON CHIPPEWA 

billion dollars, only a fraction of ly unstable situation," said Kjlein. 
Breakfast served 6-11 amCold causes which is spent on existing pro Such instability threatens the oper­Open till 9 pm Sun. thru Thurs., Fri. & Sat. till 10 pm grams such as Medicare, which ation of the economic process,many gas leaks would be discontinued if a national which normally leads to equili­health insurance plan were im-brium. In addition, inflation causes
Philadelphia Gas Works, (PGW), 
plemented. iniquities and inefficiencies that +• • • •++++++++++++++++++++•• • •••••
which serves about 540,000 natural gas users, said it had 80 to 100 "Instead, more and more of the are harmful to society, such as + SMC Soc'1a( C · · t : 
existing system will be put under maldistribution of income. + OffiffilSSlOn presen s:confirmed gas leaks yesterday, 
compared with a daily average in one umbrella, and then there will A basic dispute of the outgoing : : be gradual enhancement of the Republican administration and
normal weather of about 15. 

The severe cold has formed an system," Klein predicted. Carter's economists involved the + : extremely deep frost layer and has The new administration will in relationship of inflation and un­

i SECOND 
caused some water mains to burst, additon take steps to end what employment in the nationa.l e-~ Klein.called "restrictive practices" conomy. according to Klein, the ••
posing major problems for under­
in the economy, in areas such as Ford Administration argued thatground gas lines, said Don Kenley, 
a PGW spokesman. transportation and energy. He inflation causes unemployment. : + Meanwhile, most Dayton, Ohio, noted, however, that the measures 
ClTY

would be focused only in certain "They also felt that int1lation + +
schools will hold classes today but 
sectors of the economy. caused public officials to take +the superintendent has told Gov. 
"We do n~t recommend break-restrictive measures that •:ause + :James A. Rhodes that chances of 
ing up companies just because unemployment. My response is +remaining open beyond this week 
businessis bad," said Klein. "You that there is no ftxed relationship :· •• 
are "bleak." 

must prove that they are pre-between inflation and unemploy-The Ohio Energy Resources and datory." ment," he said, adding that the + +Development Agency met yester­
Carter's pledge to balance the new administration has rejected t a COmedy reVUe tday and recommended that Rhodes 
federal budget is also feasible the view that there must be a hight + :declare that a crisis exists in Ohio according to Klein, although it rna; level of unemployment to control •• +because natural gas shortages. 
not be realized now until 1981 inflation. in an all new show •Earlier in the weekend education 
instead of the original 1980 target. As a means to curb inflation, •• +officials met with Rhodes to discuss An unexpected setback in economic Klein asserted that wage and price + +
whether schools served by the controls were "intolerable" re-+ 
Dayton Power and Light Co. (DPL) recovery during the summer is : Sat J 29 8 OOp +
responsible for the delay, he said. quiring an army of "price police-• ' an. -: mwill be ordered closed for 30 davs. 
men" to be implemented. He : DPL has already shut off natural Lect~ring befo~e a ~ear capacity advocated an incomes policy, es-: 
about commercial
gas to 2,000 crowd tn the Engmeerm~ Auditor-rn• [continued on pa.ge 9] • O'Laughlin Auditorium • 
users. It serves 1.3 million residential users in 24 counties. 
Meanwhile, ice jams continued :. TIMM PARTY STORE--,·: • 
to plague the naviable rivers and 
bays. An ice jam on the Mississippi !OPEN: MON-SAT 9 am_ n,,oi!: $2.00-Students & Faculty 
has caused a rise in the water level 
behind it on one to two feet at Cape : SUNDAY 12 noon-11 pm :: $3.00-General Admission 
Girardeau, Mo. 

The Missouri River, dammed by :• COLD BEER, PACKAGE 11QUOR,:
ice rose two feet, above flood stage 
Ticket sales begin Tues. at SMC Programming

at Plattsmouth, Neb., on Sunday 
Office--4176

• WIN~ GOURMET FOODS :
and minor flooding was reported in 
•

low lying areas. • 3114 S. 11 ST. NILES, MICIDG.AN: 
Box Office closes at 8:1 s the night of the perfor­

The Ohio River was frozen from bank to bank from Pittsburgh to •• 1 Block North of state line on U.S. 31 • 
mance. 

: 
Golconda, Ill, 

•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• ....................................• 

Faculty Senate resolves to ease grade inflation 
by Maureen Flynn Campus Editor 
The Faculty Senate is currently 

considering two resolutions that 
would designate B-as "average" 
instead of "good" and require that 
any course dropped after the first 
seven days of class be entered on a 
student's record with a grade of W. 
Both resolutions were introduced 

at the Faculty Senate meeting Jan. 
20 and sent back to the Senate's 
Student Affairs Committee for 
re-working. The committee has 
been working on the resolutions in 
connection and its investigation of 
grade inflation. 
An earlier committee report 

documented the average under­
graduate grade as a B-or B. 
Several senators noted that chang­
ing the word designation of B-to 
"average" would bring it in line 
with the actual situation. 
Another senator expressed the hope that the change would estab­lish a University-wide standard ·for grading. 
After some debate over the 

quantitative (according to a grade 
curve. for example) meaning of 
"average" and qualitative mean­
ing. the Senate returned the resolu­
tion to committee. 
The resolution concerning drc,p­pcd courses was returned af1er some debate over its proper phras­ing. The resolution was presented to the Senate as an amendment to the Academic Manual. 
Under current regulations, a student may drop a course any time within the first seven days of class. After that date and up until one 
Gleason elected vice president 
Dr. J. Philip Gleason, professor of history has been elected first vice president of the American Catholic Historical Association (ACHA). 
Gleason, who joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1959, received his bachelor's degree from the Univer­sity of Dayton and his M.A. and Ph.D. from Notre Dame. A specialist in U.S. cultural history, particularly as it involves the Catholic Church. Gleason was chairman of the Department of History from 1971 to 1974. He edited "Catholicism in America," published in 1970 by Harper and Row. 
Dr. Stephen T. Worland, asso­ciate professor of economics has been elected president of the Association for Social Economics, a national organization concerned with the connection between econ­omic policies and ethical values. 
A specialist in the theory of justice, Worland is the author of numerous journal articles concern­ed with moral philosophy. A book, ''Scholasticism and Welfare Econ­omics: A Study of the Connection Between Natural Law Theory and Welfare Economics," was publish­ed by the Notre Dame Press in 1967. 
Worland has been a member of the Notre Dame faculty since 1957. He received undergraduate and graduate degtees at the University of Illinois. 
WSND 
Now accepting applica­tions for news reporter· broadcaster 
Umited openings 
Call Mary Ellen Keencan at 
8121 or 6397 immedicltely 
to arrange an audition 

AM-FM 
week after the mailing of mid-·sem ester deficiency slips. the student may drop the course with the permission of the dean. No record of the course appears on his report card. Any student who withdraws from a course after that date, with the permission of the dean and only in special, disruptive circumstan­ces, receives a grade of W (with­drew from the course). 
Some senators noted that a significant number of students sign up for a course overload and then drop their hardest classes later in the semester. Others said that students often drop classes in which they are failing or doing poorly in order to maintain a higher grade point average. 
Several senators argued that a transcript which does not mention such courses is not a true record of a student's academic career. It was 
noted that agradeof W in  no way  
affects a student's GPA.  
Une  member  of  the  senate  

recalled that the grades WP (pass­ing when withdrew) and WF (fail­ing when withdrew) were changed to W with the intention of ''forgiv­ing and forgetting." 
Both resolutions would go to the Academic Council for consideration if passed by the Senate. 
Senate Role Discussed 

In other business the Senate discussed a letter from University Provost Fr. James T. Burtchaell, written in response to Senate concern over faculty consultation in administrative matters. 
The provost replied to three specific instances cited by the Senate: Dean of Freshman Year Emil T. Hofman's decision to issue mid-semester grades for fresh­men, Burtchaell' s prohibition of evening examinations, and the issuing of a faculty annual report 
form  for  voluntary  use  by  the  
departments.  
Burtchaell  noted  that  Hofman  

had consulted with the University Committee for Freshman Year of Studies, the student advisory com­mittee for the Freshman Year. and the dean's committee. He added that the other two decisions were not made without extended consul­tation with the deans and depart­ment chairmen. 
"In all three instances there has been no attempt or desire to act in ignorance or defiance of the preferences or opinions of faculty (or students)." Burtchaell's letter stated. "Consu)t,.tion has been the normal style of proceedings " 
''I admit to you that this has not in the instances you note, generally been directed toward the Faculty Senate," he continued, "but one can hardly imagine that you are presenting the Senate as the only possible source of representation on this campus." 
Burtchaell added that "in mat­ters of faculty welfare the Senate is the first and practically the unique group consulted... '' 
Several members of the Senate noted that the. groups mentioned a consultants in the provost's letter-­deans and chairmen--are primarily administrators. The Senate, they claimed, is the only group that represents the faculty at large, "the teacher in the classroom." 
Chairman James Danehy said that the examination decision and the freshman grade decisions were "bombs" dropped suddenly on the faculty. "They asked the opinions of everyone except those who would carry (the decisions) out," he stated. "It's just not realistic." 
Many senators said that the role of the Senate as delineated in Burtchaell's Jetter is too narrow. "It sounds as if we are on constituency among many consti­tuencies,'' noted Prof. Robert E. Rodes. 
Rodes introduced a resolution stating that the role of the Senate as outlined in Burtchaell' s letter is unacceptable to the Senate and calling for the disbanding of the Senate "if this is considered the view of the Administration." 
The resolution was tabled for later consideration. The Executive Committee of the Faculty Senate has sought a meeting with the officers of the Administrati(m to discuss several matters of mutual concern. 

Save $10.00 to $59.90 ifyou act now. 
Ifyou'vebeenthinking about getting a programmable, 'texas Instruments hasa 
special offer for you 
NOW ,--<•.~ , 
. ~ ~·--"""'' 
;,.;....-, "'"""""""""
\ ----. 
. -. , , ,.~ 
FREE
$599o·:· 
WOHTU OF SOFT\\.\HE 
Choose . two 
SR-56 $109.95* 

If you want an incredible slide rule calculator that's also programmable, then this is the one for you. 
There're 74 preprogrammed functions and opera­tions. And it has AOS, Tl's unique algebraic operating system, the underlying reason an SR-56 is so power­ful. It'll let you handle problems with as many as 9 sets of parentheses. Talk about memory. An SR-56 has 10 (11 if you count the T-registered.). And you can do arithmetic with all of them. 
Chances are you'll soon discover how really easy it is to program. An SR-56 has 100 steps. Six logical decision functions. Four levels of subroutines. Dec­rement and skip on zero. Compare a test register with the display to make a conditional branch. And this is just the beginning. 
Think about it. Can you really afford to put off get­ting your SR-56, now? 
r-----------------~ 
I Texas Instruments will rebate $10.00 of your original SR-56 purchase price when 1 you: (1) return this completed coupon including serial number (2)along with yourI completed SR-56 customer information card (packed in box) and (3) adated copy II of proof of your purchase. verifying purchase between Jan_ 1and March 31. 1977. I 
I SR-56 Rebate Offer 1 P. 0. Box1210 I Richardson, Texas 75080 1 
I ~~ I lM~ I
I City State .. ___ Zip _____ 
SR-56 Serial No. (lrom back of calculator) 
I Please allow 30 days for rebate_ 

L ______ _ ________ _j 
Offer void where prohibited by law. Good in Continental U.S. only_ ·Suggested retai price. 
. ~f" ~"'""UI"""~'" f'«'1,.,~,. s~ "t 
i""'""" ,, -------­
\;: 

SR-52 $299.95* 
If you want the computer-like power of a card pro­grammable then choose this one. 
Techniques like optimization, iteration, data reduc­tion, what-if matrices, mathematical modeling, need not tie up your mind-or your time. 
But learning to use it is a hassle, you say. Not true. Prerecorded programs are gathered into software libraries: Electrical Engineering. Math. Statistics. Finance. All you need do is load a mag card, press a few keys and you'll get answers that previously required a computer. 
You can make your own programs just as easily. In just a couple of hours you'll begin to~ prove what a powerful asset you have-•n right at your fingertips. U/ And there's not a better time to get an SR-52 than right now. 
r-----------------~ 
I Electrical Engineering. Statistics_ Math. Finance. Choose any two and (1) return I this completed coupon including serial number along with (2) your completedI SR-52 serialized customer information card (packed in box) and (3) adated copy II of proof of your purchase. verifying purchase between Jan. 20 and March 31. 1977. I 
SR-521ree software library oller 1 P. 0. Box1210 I Richardson. Texas 75080 Name ___ I Address ___________________ 
I 

City_ _ _______state _____£~----­
I 

SR-52 Serial No. (from back of calculator) 
___ Math ___Statistics ___Finance __ _ EE I Texas Instruments reserves the right to substitute software libraries of equal value. I based upon availability. Please allow 30 days for delivery. 
L-----------------~ 
TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 
© 1977 Texas Instruments 11\Corporattd INCORPORATED 65581 
---~---------­

the observer Monday, january 24, 1977 
R.A. program to expand 

PLACEMENT BUREAU 
by Marti Hogan "P.A. indicates students are help­we can inform them of general 
Main Building 
INfERVIEWS SCHEDULED FOR WEEK OF JANUARY 31 
Interviews are for seniors and graduate students. Sign-up schedules are in Room 213, Main Building. Interview times must be signed for in person. Law School sign-ups are at the Pre-Law Society Bulletin Boards, O'Shaughnessy Hall. The sign-up period at the Placement Bureau will be from 
8:00a.m. 
~ 
Mon. 
JAN 31/FEB Mon/Tues. 
FEB 1 Tues. 
FiB 2 
Wed 
FEB 3 Thurs 
FF.!I 3/4 ThursiFri 
FEB 4 
hi 

to 5:00p.m., Monday through Thursday. 
Borg-Warner Corp. Corporate Headquarters MBA (Bin EG preferred), 
Borg-Warner Chemicals B in Che and Chern. MBA with B in EG. 
Mellon Bank MBA. 

Metropolitan Life Insurance Co B in AL and BA. 
Norfolk and Western Railway Co BM in AL and BA. 
York Air Conditioning. Div of Borg-Warner Corp. B in ME and ChE. 
Ford Motor Co BM in ME, EE, AE, Engr Sci, MEIO. B in Mkt. MBA. 
Baltimore Aircoil Company, Inc BM in ME. B in HEIO. 
Celanese Corporation BM in ChE and Chern. 
Dodge Manufacturing Div. Reliance Electric Co Cancelled. Interviews will be incorporated with Reliance Electric interviews. 
Metropolitan Life Insurance Co MBA with Marketing, Management or Finance back­ground or concentration. 
Morse Chain Div. Borg-Warner Corp. B in Mktg, Mgt, EE and ME. 
Packaging Corporation of America All BBA. 
Kurt Salmon Associates, Inc B in ME, MEIO. MBA with B in EG. 
ANHEUSER-BUSCH, INC B in ME and EE. 
W, R, Grace & Co. MBA with Fin background or concentration. 
McDonnell Douglas Corporation BM in AE, EE, ME. (Company application requested before interview) 
University of Illinois. Graduate School, Dept. of Accountancy. All interested students. 
U.S. Army Armaments R & D Command All degrees and disciplines in EG and BA. For: Government career. R&D, Procurement, Production Programs, Comptroller. Location: Dover, N.J. Group Meeting will be held in Room 222 between 4:00-5:00 PM. 
Inland Steel Company B in Acct, EE, ME, ChE, MEIO, BMD in Met. 
Manufacturers National Bank of Detroit BBA and MBA with Fin background or concentration. 
Montgomery Elevator Company BBA-Engr background helpful. B in EG-business background helpful. 
U.S. General Accounting Office Cancelled. 
Westinghouse Electric Corporation B in EE and ME. 
Aetna Life & Casualty. Group Division B in all disciplines, 
Johnson Controls, Inc B in ME/EE. B in EE/Comp Sci. 
Old Kent Bank and Trust Co All BBA. 
Procter & Gamble Co, Plant Management BM in ChE, ME, EE, MEIO, CE. MBA with tech undergraduate degree. 
Procter & Gamble Co. Product Dev. and R&D BM in ChE. MBA with undergrad degree in ChE or Chern. 
Purdue Univ. Krannert Grad, School of Mgt. All interested students. 
American Hospital Supply Corporation B1·1 in all disciplines for Sales, BM in AL or BA for Acct/Fin Trainee-must have 15 hours sect/min; Operations Understudy-must have 6 houre acct/min; Hospital Manager Trainee. 
Continental Illinois Corporation MBA. 
Equitable Life Assurance Society of U.S. B in AL and BA. 
R. R. Donnelley & Sons Company BBA and MBA. 
Mobil Oil Corporation B in AL and BA, 
Schneider Transport BM in ME, EE, MEIO for Tech Services Supervisor. BM in all disciplines for Drivers Supervisors B in Mgt and Mkt for Production Mgt, Personnel. 
St. Mary's Editor 
St. Mary's Resident Advisor 
program is expanding to include 
other aspects of counseling and to 
reach off-campus students as well 
as residents, according to Gail 
Ritchie, assistant to the Director of 
Counseling. 
"We hope to increase the num­
ber of advisors gradually and to 
include other areas, such as career 
development and working with 
commuters," she said. Ritchie 
added that the majority of the 
advisors will remain in the halls. 
''We have a great interest in 
commuters," explained Kathleen 
Rice, dean for Student Affairs. 
''Many might feel alienated .and 
not terribly involved. The resi­
dence hall program can imorove, 
and we want them (commuters) to 
have an opportunity to be part of 
the program." 
Rice explained that a number of commuters will be assigned to each residence hall which will serve as a ·'home away from home or some­where to go to pick up mail." She added that although day studt·nts do have mail boxes in Madeleva, many do not receive the mail that is sent there. 
"We'll experiment, and see how many take us up on it. Were expanding on a good system," she added. The program title also will change from l{esident Adv1sor to Peer Advisor(P.A.) "Were adding to, 
not taking away from the program," Ritchie explained, ex­pressing concern that students may believe the residence halls will suffer as a result of the change. "The title, Peer Advisor, carries prestige in many colleges and universities and looks more ·im­pressive on a resume or application to graduate schools," she said. 

ing other students rather than watching over them." 
Accepting applications 
St. Mary's Counseling Center is now accepting applications for the positions of P.A. for next year. The planned expansion of the program will allow off-campus students to apply for P.A. positions. However, "since we're just beginning to expand, the openings for off­campus students will be minimal," Ritchie explained. 
Applications may be picked up at a meeting for prospective candi­dates Wednesday, 7 p.m. in the St. Mary's Clubhouse. "I want them to meet me and present R.A.'s so policies, "Ritchie said. 
Each hall will hold an open house Sunday, Jan. 30 to give applicants an opportunity to takl with hall directors and R. A.'s in the halls, "They will get a chance to see what it's like to work for Student Affairs." Ritchie sai~. 
Applications must be turned in to the Counseling Center by Feb. 1, and interviews will be given throughout the month of February. On March 11, each applicant may pick up a personal letter in the Counseling Center indicating whether or not she has been assigned a P. A. position. 
"Right now we have 56 R.A. 's, but we hope to expand on that in the future, too," Rice Stated. 
ATTN. JUNIORS 
If you have not received information concerning 
Junior Parents Weekend or if you have any questions about the weekend PLEASE CALL 
6780 OR 7308 
YOU CAN STILL ORDER TICKETS 

Ante rica's 
largest printer 
has a career 
opportunity 
~o:..-you 
Mr. Pete Kunz, V.P Sales, and ~ '.I • Mr. Alan Hicks, Comp.trolle~, will be on campus February 4 to mtervtew candidates for career opportunities in sales, manufacturing, accounting and estimating. Consult your Placement Office for job descriptions, or write Phil Dutton, 2223 King Drive, Chicago 60616, for information in other career fields. 
You already know us by some of the products we print. 
Magazines: 11:'111 . ;\'IWSWLI K. U.S. :'.:FWS & WORLD REPORT. BUSI0:FSS WFFK. HAR\'ARD Bl!SI:'\ISS RF\'11 W. SPORTS ILLUSTRAfFD. PEOPLE, FA,\11LY CIRCLE. ESQUIRI. Gl.A:'IlOUR. ,\1ADL\101SELLE, 0:FW YORKER. SCIENTIFIC A/\1FRICAN. FARl\1 IOLIRNAL. Books: 10:CYCLOPAFDIA BRITANNICA, WORLD BOOK. BOOK OF KNOWLE6GE. DUN & BRADSTRITT, STANDARD AND POOR. OFFICIAL AIRLINE GUIDE. Catalogs: SEARS. J. C. PENNFY. RADIO SHACK, WESTERN AUTO. Telephone Directories: NEW YORK. CHICAGO. PHILADELPHIA, and other major cities. Annual Reports: ZEI\!ITH. U0:ION PACIFIC. HK. ASHLAND OIL, and others. 
R. R. DONNELLEY& SONS COMPANY 
Sales: $575 million Net Income: $39 million 12 plants 9 sales offices ll.500 employees • 
-----~---------------~---~--------------~---~ 
•. 

Monday, January 24, 1977 the observer 
Mondale travels to global capitals 

bv James Gerstenzang Associated Press Writer 

. WASHINGTON (AP) -Vice-Presi­dent Walter F. Mondale embarked yesterday on the first diplomatic mission of the Carter Administra­tion, a ten-day global tour that will take him to five European capitals and Tokyo for economic discussions and introductory talks with U.S. allies. 
"The early initiation of this very important diplomatic trip shows the importance that our nation attaches to friendly relations between our­selves and the seven nations whose leaders Sen. Mondale -Vice-Presi­dent Mondale now-will be meet­
'ing," President Carter said at an erly morning White House de­parture ceremony. 
A major goal will be to reassure American allies of this nation's "strength and purpose, and our commitment to carry out the obli­gations we have," Carter said. 
Mondale's agenda includes meetings today with Belgian Prime Minister Leo Tindmans and of­ficials of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization and the Common Market. 
The trip, which administration officials say underlines President Carte's campaign commitment to consult with allies in Europe and Japan, will include stops in Bonn, West Berlin, Rome, London, and Paris before Mondale flies to Tokyo on Saturday and back to Washing­ton on Feb. 1. 
It is one element in a flurry of diplomatic activities Carter forecast Students, returning to 2 ft!et of snow in South Bend, start the for the opening months of hissemester with a playful spirit. [photo by Debbie Krilich] administraation that will include 
New Energy Department planned 
byTomRaum Associated Press Writer 

WASHINGTON [AP] -Con­gressional leaders are ready to work with the Carter administra­tion in forging a new Cabinet-level Department of Energy, but efforts are already bogging down in a welter of rival plans. 
The concept of a new department to coordinate the nation's energy policy, urged by both Carter and former President Gerald Ford, has wide bipartisan backing in Con­gress. But the main problem is deciding which programs to include and which to leave out when the new superagency is formed. 
At the heart of the controver5y is whether to lodge programs that push energy production under the same roof with those that regulate energy in the public interest. 
At the same time, administration offcials are hoping to introdu<:e in Congress this week emergency legislation authorizing the govern­ment to allocate natural gas sup­plies among pipelines, a move that would permit surplus gas to be shifted to states with acute short­ages of the fuel. 
Action on energy reorganization is mandated by the act Congress passed last year extending the Federal Energy Administration (FEA) through the end of 1977. The act requires the legislation to be submitted by April 15. 
The Carter administration has said it will send Congress a plan for reorganizing energy agencies t~arly next month. Staff member:; of Government Operations commit­tees in both houses have already done some initial spade-work with the administration in drafting the legislation. 
But they are awaiting word :from White House energy aide Jamt~s R. Schlesinger on specifics. "He's the man who will be calling the major shots for the administra­tion," said one Senate staffer. 

Carter plans to name Schlesi:ttger to head the new department when Congress gets around to creati:tlg it -which may not be for months 
because of the complexities involv­
ed and the likelihood of extended 
debate. In the meantime, Schles­
inger will coordinate administra­
tion energy policy from the White 
House. 
Congressional committee aides 
said one major obstacle is deciding whether the new department should include the Federal Power ·Commission (FPC) and those parts of the FEA that engage in price regulation. Another, they said, is dealing with the Interior Depart­ment's current jurisdiction over energy production on federal hmds. 
Chairman Abraham Ribicoff, D­
Conn., of the Senate Government 
Operations Committee and others 
have expressed distaste for com­
bining agencies that regulate en­
ergy with those that promote its 
development. 
It was a similar built-in conflict that led Congress in 1975 to split the Atomic Energy Commission into two new agencies: the Energy Research and Development Admi­nistration (ERDA) and the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NCR). 
Yet energy reorganization plans unveiled by Carter during his campaign would foster the same type of conflict by combining some regulatory programs with those oriented toward energy production. 
Carter proposed abolishing the FEA, FPC, ERDA and the Energy Resources Council and assigning their functions to the new depart­ment. Ford submitted a similar plan near the end of his administra­tion. 
A possible alternative favored by some staff members of the Senate Government Operations Commit­tee is to create two new agencies. One would be the Cabinet-level Department of Energy and the other a new energy regulatory agency, which would include the FPC and the regulatory aspects of the FEA. 
However, the proposal for two new agencies instead of one is certain to be controversial, and odes not enjoy the support of many key members of Congress. 
Possibly an even thornier issue is what to do about the energy management responsibilities of the Interior Department on federal land. About a third of all U.S. land is owned by the federal govern­ment. The Interior Department is responsible for issuing coal, gas and oil leases on these lands, as well as on the Outer Continental Shelf. 

The plan Carter announced dur­ing his campaign would bring Interior's energy management pro­grams into the new agency. Ford's other trips by Carter's emissaries to the world's trouble spots and visits to the United States by foreign leaders . 
Mondale aides sketched three purposes for the whirlwind tour, 
which  was  announced  two  weeks  
ago:  
-To  get  acquainted  with  the  

United States' primary allies. "To find out what's on their minds, to do a lot of listening, to hear their concerns first hand and bring them back to Carter," one of his aides said. 
-To report to thP. Europeans and Japanese on Carter's economic plans. 
-To conduct preliminary discus­sions towards setting up an eco­nomic summit meeting in the late spring ot early summer. 
In addition, discussions are likely to include such specific issues as halting the spread of nuclear weapons, U. S. troop-strength in West Germany and South Korea, trade negotiations and inter­national monetary problems, the political and social relationship between emerging and industrial­ized nations, and relations between the East and West. 
Carter, relatively unknown to the European and Japanese leaders, is likely to be one of the key topics of the discussions. 
European leaders. said one of­ficial, "will want to know if there will be any significant changes in 
U.S. foreign policy regarding Europe. They are going to want to know as much as possible about the plans of the new administration in the economic field.·· 
Officials said that the vice-presi­dent would not carrv with him anv ··grand designs" f~om the three­day-old administration. 
'"We'll be 90 hours old when we hit the ground in Brussels." said one official. "We won't carry any new proposals." 

Free University classes start throughout campus 
by Maey Ann Moorman Staff Reporter 

The first classes for the Free University will begin today through Thursday. 
Most ofthe classes are in O'Shag Hall with a few in the Nieuwland Science Building and at St. Mary's. For those who have forgotten the day, time, or place, the sheets are available in the Student Govern­ment Office in LaFortune. 
Organizer Charlie Moran ex­plained if you were on the waiting list and have not been called, you are not in the course. If there are opening because of no shows, there will be sign up sheets at the Student Government Office any­time on Friday. Also the racketball and automechanics courses are unresolved. Interested students will be contacted. 
Dan McCormick, another organi­zer commented on the number of sign-ups saying "The largest classes are in the Mixology course with 100 students in each. Most courses, though, have 30 to 35 students." 

~-----------------------------------. 
ATTENTION VOLUNTEER GROUP LEADERS MEETING TONIGHT 
Groups wishing to be represented at tomorrow's Volunteer Services Recruitment Night must attend tonight's meeting in LaFortune Ballroom at 7:00. 
plan would leave them where they ••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 
are. 
Environmentalists in Congress don't want this responsibility re­moved from Interior. H Carter tries to do it, "you've got a fight on your hands from some members of Congress," said Rep. Morris K. 1 Udall, D-Ariz., the prospective I chairman of the House Interior Committee. 
But leaving leasing in interior I will make those who want to increase energy production un­happy. Even now, production­minded officials in ERDA feel "frustrated by Interior's leasing program," said Daniel Dreyfus, an energy staffer on the Senate INter-f ior Committee who says the leasing : issue may be the critical one in the : reorganization debate. I 
Congress is also faced with a number of other competing plans, some of them proposed by senior members · such as a proposal by Sen. Henry M. Jackson, D-Wash., for a mammoth Department of Energy and Natural Resources that would abolish the Interior Depart­ment and another by Sen. Ernest F. · Hollings, D-S.C., for a Department • of Environment and Oceans. · 
In the House, the problem is I complicated by jurisdictional rival­aries among committees. Some eleven committees and subcommit-· tees now have energy responsibili­ties. 
One 'suggestion, advanced by i House leaders, is for a new special energy committee whose estab­lishment could parallel the over-
HELP WANTED!!! 
The Observer is looking for 


... who wants some excellent experience and extra beer money working part time as an ad salesperson. Call Mike at 7471 

hauling of energy agencies in the .............................
executive branch. 
8 

the observer Monday!._ January 24, 1977
-----"--'----­
Cold conditions cause job, crop shortages 
by The Associated Press week. crippling the winter vege­ages continue through for the ne1:t worth $43 million, Pope said. governor's declaration would open table crop and destroying about a week or two. "Celery, lettuce and peppers the way for farm workers to get 
Severe cold conditions over the third of the orange grapefruit and eastern half of the nation appeared other citrus crops. eased yesterday but the problems 
"There will be no more work forwill linger in some areas for at least three months,'' said Rudymonths. 

Juarez . director of the Organized Tens of thousands of workers Migrants in Community Action. remain out of work because of plant 
Gene Dyson, President of theshutdowns or cutbacks as a result Georgia Business and Industryof natural gas shortages. 

Association , said 50,000 workers 
In Florida up to 150,000 migrant have been laid off in Georgia and farm laborers lost their jobs when the figure could rise to 150,000 to the hard freeze struck late last 200.000 if the weather and short-
Senior Forum to accept Fellow nominee changes 
by Val ZurbUs Executive Editor 
Senior Class Fellow Committee 
chairman Ron Hathaway as­
nounced that a Senior Class Fellow 
Forum will be held Tuesday, Jan. 
25 at 7 p.m. in room 122 Hayes­
Healy. This unprecedented forum 
is being held to allow seniors an 
opportunity to suggest additions 
and deletions to the list of 21 senior 
class fellow nominees the com­
mittee narrowed down from over 
I00 nominations. 
The current list includes Eric 
Severeid: Bob Woodward and Carl 
Bernstein: Woody Allen; Bob 
Hope; Barbara Jordan; Art Buch­
wald: Muhammed Ali; Garry Tru­
deau: Kurt Vonnegut: Red Smith; 
Henry Kissinger: Beverly Sills; 
Gerald Ford; Jerry Brown; Walter 
Cronkite: Jern: Lewis; John 
Wavne: Alexander Solzenitzin; 
Ed~·ard Kennedy; Ronald Reagan; 
and Bill Cosby. 
Any senior requesting a change before the final list must submit their name and a one page state­ment why a person should be added or deleted from the list to the Student Activities Office by 4 p.m. tuesday. That person will. in turn. act as spokesman for their fellow nominee at the forum. 
After the list is finalized, articles will appear in The Observer ex­plaining the background of each nominee and the election will be held next Tuesday and Wed­nesday. 
TV company has season premier 
The Junior Achievement Televi­sion Company is putting the final touches on the Tenth Anniversary Season Premiere of Beyond Our Control. The award-winning "TV Show About TV" will kick-off its 1977 season Saturday January 29 at 
6:00 p.m. EST on WNDU-TV, Channel 16. 
The program will continue its successful "channel switching" format this year; the production technique is designed to simulate an idle·hours session spent before the television set, switching at random from channel to channeL The "programs" on Beyond Our Control are frequently joined in prgress, abandoned, and then re­turned to during the course of the program. 
Thirty-four Michiana area high school students--comprising the largest company in HOC's history-­write, stage, film, produce, per­form and direct the program. 
The JA company was founded in 1960 by William Thomas Hamilton, executive vice-president of the WNDU Stations. and turned to the production of Beyond Our Control in 1967. Since that time, it has become the nation's most widely­publicized local television show, and has won a number of national awards, including four Freedoms Foundation Awards for economic education, the National Association of Television Program Executives award for best local variety show, and the Chicago Internation Film Festival's "Gold Hugo" award for best television program. 

The Senior Fellow Award nas been a tradition at Notre Dame since 1969. It is an annual award given to an individual who the class feels has performed some worthy endeavor of social merit. The 
fellow usually attends a weekend of activities in the spring that center around the personality of the recipient. 
For further information call Ron Hathaway, 8288. 
The General Motors assembly were wiped out," Pope said. plant in Doraville, Georgia will be "They were ready to harvest." closed until further notices because As a result growers are saying of a propane gas shortage, a that fresh vegetables in the east company .spokesman said yester­during the next few months and day, causmg the layoff of 4,500 prices are certain to increase. persons. The plant normally When Gov. Reubin Askew de­
produces about a thousand cars dared a state of emergency Satur­daily. day because of the freeze, aide Ron 
Officials have said it may be as Sachs said food stamps were the long as a month before gas supplies only government help readily avail-are sufficient to reopen the plants. able. 
Although the frigid wave had Sachs said, however, that the unemployment compensation they normally wouldn't qualify for. 
Although citrus industry officials say one-third of the crop may have been lost, if the frozen fruit is picked right away it can be pro­cessed for juice concentrate. Officials also have said that the freeze may have been a blessing in disguise for the orange growers because they had faced a surplus which would have forced down the 

price. lessen~d. chilly temperatures still dominated many of the eastern 
r··i<ARArii·c·(ue·ogMo··1
states yesterday, the National 
weather Service said it will remain that way from the Mid-Atlantic : coast states theough the Ohio Valley through today. 
Snow stretched across eastern 

i Iowa and Western Illinois into Wisconsin and Minnesota and 
i

spread eastward across the Ohio Valley to the Appalachians. Florida's worst freeze in I 5 yean; destroyed $1 SO million of tomatoes 
i•

and citrus, said Frank Pope of the 
U.S. Agriculture Department's 
i

Florida Emergency Board. Self-defense Katac (Forms)The ruined tomatoes, alone were 
~...............................
~ 
Tuesday 7:30 i 
Washington Hall ! 
Includes : Board breaking ·: Sword Nunchakw :
i 






Carter'~; advisor lectures 
[continued from page 4] Klein delivered his second add­tablishing guidelines for levels of ress on Friday afternoon in Hayes-wages, profits and interest, Healy auditorium, presenting an through the use of the tax sy1;tem outlook for the world economy for insteadofwith "price policemen." the next year. He added that both labor and The source of his projections is management would be capable of the international research group supporting such a policy, and that known as Project LINK, for which the existing collective bargaining Klein is the principal investigator. channels in the large industrial Since its inception in 1969, the 
h ld project has furnished highly re-
sector 0 f t e economy wou pro-It'able "orecasts "or the t'nternatt'onal 
11

vide a convenient site for negotia-' ' tion. economy. 
· d h
Kl 1

"I tht'nk the lt'kely set of polt'ct'es em state t at the word ·n the new admt"nt"strati·on wt"ll not economic recovery is expected to 
t. d · h · 

be that structured, but there will be eon mue urmg t e upcommg 
Some type Of natl.onal compact of a year, but that its extent would be 
· d b h · 

bust. ness great y I determme y t e acttonsvoluntary Sort between . d0 f G J d h U
and labor," predicted Klein. ermany, apan an t e mte
States. He conceded that prior experi­ments with income policies '' have Klein indicated that Great Bri­not worked well," but indicated tain faced some of the most severe 
that their failure has been due in economic difficulties of any de­each case to some kind of de-veloped nation. Their "main ficiency. hope," said Klein, will be an 
Klein forecast that a properly expansionary policy by the United constructed incomes policy, •;om-States. bined with reduction of restrktive "It looks as though it'll be '78 or business practices and a diversion '79 before the United Kingdom will of money to fixed captial, could drop to the single-digit inflation achieve a non-inflationary unem-range," he remarked. ployment level of 5.5 percent. A Klein also forecast that troubled nationwide job training program in Italian economy would take "a step the view of Klein could cut the in the right direction" during the jobless rate further, to as low a> 4.5 next year. He noted that Italian percent. trade deficit problems were not as 
r-----------------------------­
serious as those of Great Britain. 
Japan will embark on a major stimulative program, according to Klein, a plan designed to heal an economy damaged by domestic political conflict. Klein noted that the plan was unusual for Japan since it employed heavy govern­ment spending instead ofthe use of monetary policy. 
While the underdeveloped world 
f · bl f · d b
aces a growmg pro em o m e t­edness, Klein noted that events in the advanced nations could provide 
I' f

some re te . "IF the industrial
ld · 

wor ptcks up, then the developed
world will pick up,'' he said. 
Kl . 1 d d h . 
em cone u e t at expansiOn­
. . b h 

ary po1tctes p anned 1 y t e West
G h J d h
ermans, t e apanese an t e Carter administration were vital for the continuation of world economic 
recovery. Failure of the United States to stimulate its economy, he commented, would be "a dis­aster." 
Klein's appearance was span-sored by the economics department as a part of the "New Perspectives in Public Policy,'' lecture series. Department Chairman Prof. Charles K. Wilber noted that having each speaker stay on cam­pus for three days allowed them to engage in valuable interaction with small groups of students and faculty. 
looks ·tempting, but don't! lake Marion at SMC appears to be frozen and very tempting to ice skaters, but the ice is very thin. SMC is advising all students to stay away from the lake. [photo by Debbie Krilich] 
I 

Volunteer Services sponsors first annual Activity Night 
by Diantl Wllson students. The first is 'one to Staff Reporter one direct.' This branch is where each volunteer relates to the person The first annual Volunteer he is woking with on a one-to-one Services Activity Night will be held basis. Some projects of this branch Tues., Jan 25 from 7:30 to 9 p.m. include tutoring, Big Brother and in the Memorial Library Concourse Big Sister, mental health patients, Lobby. Any student interested in Head Start, visits to the elderly, hot doing volunteer work should at:end line crisis center, and prison visits. this program. The second branch is the Social 
Volunteer Services Activity Action Education group. Working Night, which is sponsored by the under this branch are the Hunger Notre Dame-St. Mary's Volunteer Coalition, INPIRG and CILA. Services, will begin with a short Service groups that contain oppor­presentation in the Library Audi-tunities for various projects make torium. An opportunity will ·:hen up the third branch of Volunteer be given for students to become Services. Included in this branch acquainted with the different vol-are Community Services through unteer service organizations avail-dorm projects, Knights of Colum­able. The opening presentation bus, Circle K, and Alpha Phi will be given by the staff of Omega. Volunteer Services and by mem-All of these projects and organi­bers of volunteer organizations, zations will be represented in the 
Council for the Retarded, Neigh-second part of Activity Night. borhood Study Help, CILA, Hunger Traditionally, an Activity Night Coalition, and Community Senices for Freshmen, sponsored by the will all be represented in the Freshman Orientation Committee, opening presentation. is held every fall to acquaint 
According to Tom Reid, co-Freshmen with all the opportuni­director of Volunteer Services, ties available for extra-curricular there are three main branches of activities. Yolunteer Services Ac­volunteer service available to tivity Night differs because it is 
.., 'tl •.r. '"f, ~... 'lit, 9,'".1'. ~.. "{ ""· •.f~ ~."A. "'I,'{ :.f _. .,. lf, "'f. 11, ·J. I, C o! 'l • ~ ~ l' "· I t # I .4~ 1 .4; ~"' t. 'l,l\;~ ·..•\·~..'\ !· 
geared not only to freshmen, but also to sophomores, juniors and anyone interested in volunteer activities. Also, the only activities represented this night will be volunteer organizations, rather than all clubs and groups on campus. 
According to Reid, the beginning of second semester is an excellent time to have an additional recruit­ing night. Freshmen have now had time to get adjusted to college life and are now more able to tackle extra projects. Too, because their schedules change, students can now do work for volunteer groups they previously did not have time for. This second recruiting time gives them a chance to get in­volved. 
Reid, who co-directs Volunteer Services with Sr. Judith Ann Beattie, feels volunteer activities can benefit many students. "Vol­untering offers a real opportunity to have new experiences and develop new skills," Reid said. It can really make the classroom learning come !live and can really be important for deciding one's major and career plans." 
..:. : .J-....,· -.. .-.-·.,_ -# -. • f .1-t v 1-·r 1 1 ~~ "'I "t-·~_*I 
Darby's Place reopens 
by Joe Gill Staff Reporter 

Darby's Place will re-open for the second semester at midnight tonight, according to Co-manager Darby O'Gill. 
The late-night study and conver­sational lounge located in the basement of LaFortune will once again be serving coffee, hot choco­late. soda and doughnuts. 
N.D.-S.M.C. Hotline 
confidential listeni~g service 
4-4311 
Sun-Thu. 8-12pm Fri-Sat. 8-2 pm 


RETREAT WEEKEND AT OLD COLLEGE 
this friday evening through Sunday a.m. Fr. Dave Burrell · 
excercises in prayer sign up in campus ministry office I:J 103 library $6 fee ~~ 
''Man's mind Stretched to a New Idea 
Never goes back To its original dimensions." 
(oliver wendell holmeN) 

Here at Northrop Defense Systems Department, we are constantly striving to conceive and de­velop new advanced technology in the field of electronic countermeasures -those electronic techniques which make it impossible for a target to be seen. That's why we're a leader in our field. 
We are seeking qualified BSEE's and MSEE's to apply their skills in microwave technology, digi­tal electronics and/or the microprocessor field. Individuals who desire a stimulating learning en­vironment ond who can contribute as key mem­bers of one of the nation's most sophisticated teams of professional engineers. 
If your mind can stretch to new ideas, please send your resume to: 
Manager-Professional Placement NORTHROP CORPORATION Electronics Division Defense Systems Department 
600 Hicks Road Rolling Meadows, IL 60008 

NORTHROP 
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY FMPLOYER M/f 

'i ><I ~" 'I ~ ·, '4 '.t .• , 't ., '<~ .,_ ~( '.t. '( ··~ "-. ·•• '( •-~. f a...-,.. ~,._ ,. 
University Chaplin Rev. Robert Griffin extends his invitation to the Notre Dame community, saying "come on down and meet my dog." O'Gill also extends his personal bark, adding, "come on down and meet my master.'' 
Anyone wishing to work as a volunteer at Darby's place from 12 midnight to 2 a.m. or 2-4 a.m. should contact Darby's co­manager, Joe Gill at 3214. 

10 the observer Monday, january 24, 197~ 
-----------------------"'-'--'-=.:_----''-'---''-----'--~­
f N.D. offers Law-Focused Education program 
by Jack Pizzolato 
Staff Reporter 
Notre Dame and five other universities in Indiana are ad­ministering a program designed to give students at all levels a greater understanding and appreciation of the American legal system. 
The schools are acting as region­al centers for the Indiana Project for Law-Focused Education, a statewide effort funded by the Lilly Endowment, Inc. Through the universities and under their guidance a program of law-focused education is established in neigh­boring school communities. The program includes teacher instruc­tion and briefing, the development of a law-focused curriculum, and the invitation of such specialists as lawyers, judges, and police officers into the classroom to give further insights into federal and state justice systems. 

Dr. William F. Eagan, associate professor of management at Notre Dame, is the university's program director. "This is not the old civic ideas,"£agan said. "We want to accurately describe what goes on within the legal system." 
Students, he said, are encour­aged to raise questions about the law in order to develop more realistic attitides. The intent, Eagan pointed out, is to give young students a working knowledge of 
the law and the recourses open to 
$3.9 bl.lll·on loan Stl·mulates 
them within the system. The program, with the use of specially prepared texts, course
Sufferl·ng Brt·t.·sh econom 
outlinesandothereducationalaids. 
f 
LONDON AP--Three weeks after Britain obtained a $3.9 billion loan from the International Monetary Fund. (IMF). the economy is 
I 
showing pronounced signs of re­covery. But critical obstacles remain. 
The belaeguered pound sterling, the world· s mightiest currency in centuries past. has halted its slide 

on the foreign exchanges and crept 
t back slightly to more than $1.71 
l after hitting an all-time low of$1.57 on Oct. 28. After many months with a bal­ance of payments deficit, the country has posted December fig­ures showing a favorable balance in trade with the rest of the world. Record-high interest rates are falling-a spur to industrial expan­sion. it is hoped. The Bank of England's base lending rate is down to 13 1/4 percent after peaking at 15 percent in October. At the end of 1975, the cost of living in Britain was escalating at 25 percent a year. Just published figures for 1976 show it cut to 15.1 percent a year. The Labor govern­ment's voluntary pay code with the unions has limited wage rises to less than the rate of inflation. 
~ 
y will allow local schools to offer full However. British inflation is still courses and mini-courses in such areas as constitutional law, civil 
twice as high as that of trade . h t" d 
com petit or s uS int1a tio n is now ~r!!tg!!!!t!!s,!!!!c!!o!!n!!s!!um!!!!e!!r!!!!p!!ro!!t!!ec!!!!to!!n!!!!:!!ln!!!!!!!!!!r!!o!!Je!!c!!!!w!!!!tc!!!!p!!!!a!!n!!s!!to!!!!m!!v!!o!!v!!e!!u!!p!!!!to!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~less than 5 percent a year. • 
landlord-tenant relations. 18 colleges and universities within 
Recently, Eagan announced the the state. appointment of four area educators Notre Dame formally became a to the regional team under N.D.'s participant in the program in April direction. These teachers, along of '76. In return for a year of with Eagan, will be initiating funding, the university is required law-focused educational programs to offer an undergraduate course in in the South Bend and Mishawaka the field (Law and the Individual; school systems, as well as in Penn, MGT 466), to hold a one day Harris and Madison townships. conferecne in the spring, and to 
The concept of law-focused edu-provide summer workshops for cation was originally discussed in area teachers. the early 1960's in response to "It's still much too early to see schoolchildren's increasingly nega-any results," Eagan said., "but the 
tive attitudes toward the legal reception has been quite good in system. A pilot project set up in the schools." 
Chicago soon developed into a With Notre Dame in the project statewide program sponsored by are Indiana University. Blooming­the Law in American Society Foun-ton; Ball State University, Muncie; dation. This oganization was DePauw University, Greencastle; crucial in designing the Indiana and Indiana State Universities at 
p . t h" h I . I Terre Haute and Evansville. 
Britons, beset with a 68 percent cost of living increase in the past three years, face even higher prices in the months ahead as the effects filter through from sterling's 20 percent devaluation over the pastl2 months. 
The pound fell from $2.10 a year ago to $1.57 before starting to recover. The slide in the pound has made imports more costly. The British are among the world's biggest importers of food and also import almost all the raw materials needed for industry. 
But with North Sea oil flowing more abundantly than expected, expensive imports of Arab oil have been reduced. December's trade figures showed an over-all surplus of $35.7 million, compared with an average monthly deficit of $340 million in the preceding five months. 
The brighter economic prospects have brought renewed interest in the London Stock Exchange where active buying has sent prices to a six-month high. 

SENIORS!!! 
DO ~VOU LIKE THE 1977 SENIOfl FELLOW NOMINEES ? 
if not and .YOU have something to say crbout it, be at the 
SENI()R FELLOW FORUM 
TlJESDAY, JAN. 25 7pm lioom 122 Hayes-Healy
speak up now! 
The Student Union Social Commission Invites you to the 
Grand Openir1g Week 
SUNDAY JAN. 23 
& 
MONDAY JAN. 24 
The Irish Brigade traditional Irish Folk Songs (8~12) 
1.00 admission 
THURSDAY JAN. 27 
Dave Shaheen ( 9-12) Greg Mandolini 
at the 
nazz 
TUESDAY JAN. 25 

Billy Adams (9-10) Bill Mahr ( 10-11) 
FRIDAY JAN. 28 

NO Jazz Combo (9-12) Nazz Features 
I I
rEDNESDA]
JAN. 26 
John Steinman (9-11) 
SATURDAY JAN. 29 
& 
SUNDAY JAN. 30 
Arnie Brau (9-12) 
1.00 admission 

I 
The Nazz will be open six nights a week, 8-12 Mctnday thru Thursday and 9-2 Friday and Saturday. The Nazz has been equipped with stereo equipment to provide oontinuous music oourtesy of the Sound Room. . The Nazz features food, drinks, lively oonversation and Jots of mellow music. 
Future attractions--Feature Artist Nights Drama in the Nazz 
I 
Album Hours Comedy The 21 00 Club The Nazz Deli Talent Shows Poetry Readings 
i 
,, ' ~ :·:\ ,'\t ·-· ....... '~·'"':.'.'~t~ ~· ..... ··~'''' ~(,, .·.'.-' r!.l'l,.· ',:.• ·...',. ·..•...'.) •.! 
:~·4'····:···· \ ,·,·.· ,··p. :".'.•"~'~' .'\~:~ ..~·~·· .. · :'.· i '' ,(,', • t : i' ! ~' :. ", I ', .\ 
ND fells Nittany Lions in Gator Bowl 
After a poor State punt, the Irish intercepted a Chuck Fusina pass in 
by Tony Pace ing backs Steve Orsini and Hunter The Irish fortunes improved with had the ball on their own 49. Once the end zone.
Sports Writer on consecutive plays to advance the the ensuing kickoff as Terry Eurick ball to the two. But the State gathered the ball in on his own 
again, quarterback Slager directed Later in the final stanza, State As any Notre Dame sports fan defense tightened on the next two goal line and raced 65 yards to the the offense towards paydirt. Two put the punt rush on and Bruce 
should now know, the Notre D~1me downs and the Lions regained :)tate 35 yardline. From there the consecutive Slager to Ken MacAfee Clarke blocked Joe Restic's punt. football team made their fist Gator possession. Irish needed only ten pl~ys to score passes netted 24 yards and a This put the ball on the Notre Dame Bowl appearance a successful ()De Notre Dame's defense provided their first points of the contest. AI personal foul call added another 15. 8 yard line. On the second play 
by defeating Penn State 20-9. the next scoring opportunity as Hunter went off left end for the With the ball marked near the from this point, quarterback Fusina Steve Heimkreiter separated Mike touchdown and Dave Reeve made State goal line, Hunter dove over hit running back Matt Suhey for
The Irish task looked difficuh: as Penn State moved the ball to the Guman from the ball and Jim the conversion to give Notre Dame 
the line for his second touchdown State's only touchdown. The of the game. Reeve converted the attempt for the two point conver­
Irish nine yard line on their first Browner recovered at the Nittany a 7-3 lead. possession. At that point, h()w­Lion 23 yardline. When this drive The opening of the second extra point and the Irish were sion failed and the final margin 
running away 17-3. stood at 20-9.
ever, their drive stalled and the was halted at the Penn St. five, the quarter saw the Irish again march­Nittany Lions called on Tony Capo­Irish elected to attempt a field goal. ing towards the Lion goal. With a Another poor Penn State punt Commenting on the fact that the 
coupled with an interference on the Irish failed to score in the second
zzoli to attempt a field goal. His 26 Reeve's 23 yard bootwas good and first and goal situation at the Penn fair catch of the punt gave the Irish half, Coach Dan Devine said,yard placement was successful and the Notre Dame lead stretched to State nine, Rick Slager used runn­
10-3. the ball on the Lion 32 with only 17 "Penn State played considerablyState had a 3-0 lead. 
seconds remaining to be played in better in the second half. We the first half. A 26 yard pass from didn't play as well in the second Slager to wide receiver Dan Kelle­half as we did against Southern her gave Notre Dame a field goal Cal. We har.l receivers open and
ND cagers lose on the road 
opportunity. Reeve's 23 yard didn't get the ball to them. placement was true and the Irish Overall, I think they just played a by Fred Herbst tage at the half. The Irish were Hanzlik with 17 to lead this romp. went into the locker room with a lot stronger in the second half.'' 
Sports Editor once again hurt by turnovers, as Toby Knight added 18 points. The 20-3 advantage. The offensive star of the gamethey were guilty of 19 first half win lifted the Irish mark to 8-4. The third quarter saw both teams was AI Hunter who had 102 yards errors. Despite the tough time Notre keeping the ball for extended on 26 carries, including the two 
While most Notre Dame students Notre Dame could never back Dame experienced over break, periods of time, but neither was Irish touchdowns. For his exploits, were home enjoying their semester get back into the contest in the Coach Digger Phelps remained able to put any points on the board. Hunter received the Burkhalter break, the Irish basketball team second half as they continued to optimistic. "We have a good club The fourth quarter opened with Award as the outstanding player on was on the road -and they weren't turn the ball over and failed to find here." he said, "And you can bet Penn State moving deep into Notre the winning team. Penn State's enjoying it. the range from the outside. that come March we're going to let Dame territory. Once again, Jimmy Cefalo, who had five recep­
After racing to seven straight Bill Paterno led the Irish scoring people know just how good we however, the Irish defense proved tions for 60 yards, won the Miller first semester wins, including vk­with IS points while Toby Knight are . superior to the Nittany Lion offense Award as the outstanding player on tories over Maryland and UCLA C>n .added 14. Bob Slaughter paced as strong saftely Jim Browner the losing team. the road and Indiana at hom·~. 
Princeton with 19 markers. Notre Dame fell upon hard times dropping four decisions in a row Villanova 63 Notre Dame 62 before bouncing back against tiny 
Irish icers win six of eight
Trailing throughout the contest, Ranked second in the nation .n the Irish came back to nearly tie the the service at the game as Bill Paterno missed a one Clark Hamilton, Jack Brownshidle, 
Stone hill College. • 
wire polls unassisted goal for the Irish, and
by Gregory Solman 

beginning of the break, the lri~:h and one opportunity with II se­Tom Vannelli, last year's N\AA Allen Karsnia, Kevin Nugent, and
Sports Writer

returned to school for the secor d conds remaining that could have tournament MVP, tied the scu;e Greg Meredith all added to the semester unranked in the natiC>n sent the game into overtime. minutes later. At 15:03, Greg scoring spree, as Notre Dame with an 8-4 mark. Still, the Irish had other chances. Over vacation, on the road and Meredith came through w1th a goal swept a series on the road, a 
Dave Batton rebounded Paterno's "far from the madding crowd" of assisted .Allen and commendable achievement against 
by Karsnia Kentucky 102 Notre Dame 78 miss and had his follow shot the ACC. the Irish hockey team did Dukie Walsh, and the Irish had any club. blocked out of bounds. Batton then everything but drive the Zamboni their split. 
The number-one ranking was lt missed a baseline jumper on the between periods. Not only did the The next night, the closeness Notre Dame 5-lO,Michigan St. 2-3 stake as top-ranked Michigan h~.d inbounds play and Toby Knight icers win six out of the eight games was the same but the outcome was been upset the night before. But missed a tip at the buzzer. they played, compiling records and different. This time, it was Tom It was record night at St Paul 
the Wildcats of Kentucky, who h;;,d milestones along the way, but they Vannelli whoassistedthe first goal following the Irish opening night just been placed on NCAA pro­Marquette 78 Notre Dame 69 did it with a style and confidence and scored the winner, that lead win over the Michigan State Spar­bation. made sure that the second· that suggested another ice-melting the Gophers to a 3-2 victory. tans, S-2. Greg Meredith scored his ranked Irish weren't about to move Notre Dame's losing skid finish. John Peterson lost the heart­first career hat trick. Jack Brown­
reached four games in Milwaukee
to the top. breaker, but stopped twenty-five shidle had a five-assist game, Paul 
Aided by 19 first-half Notre as cold shooting victimized them. Notre Dame 7, &ston CoUege 4 shots in the process. Clarke got his 31st career goal, Dame turnovers. Kentucky used Hitting a poor 43 percent from the breaking Bill Green's record for Jack Givens' 30 points to totally floor, the Irish could never close to Noisy McHugh Forum was the Notre Dame defensemen. Dukie 
dominate the Irish. Givens was Rn within more than five points as the first stop for Notre Dame, and it Notre Dame 7-5, Minnesota-Duluth Walsh got 'his eighth career hat incredible IS for 17 from the floor. foul shooting of Butch Lee and Bo was fitting that the Irish should 6-2 trick, breaking Eddie Bumbacco's 
Toby Knight and Bruce Flowers Ellis allowed the Warriors to begin their road trip with a win in record. paced the Irish with 14 markers remain in the lead. America's Celtic capital. There in John Peterson was in t*1e nets In addition, the team picked up apiece. Despite the crushing Duck Williams led the Irish Beantown, Clark Hamilton scored again for the Irish, as Noir -~ Dame some laurels. Defeating the Spar­
defeat. the most severe loss for teh attack with 22 points. Toby Knight two goals as the Irish routed the picked up two easy . victories a­tans 10-3, they became the first Irish may have been that of Flowers addled 19, and Bruce Flowers, Eagles of Boston College, 7-4. gainst the Bulldogs. The first night team ever to sweep Michigan State who injured an ankle causing him playing for the first time since the Paul Barrett and Mike Martin Jackson and Donny Fairholm add­at home, and they tied the record to miss the next three games. loss to Kentucky, scored 16. Lee had put the Eagles into a 2-1 first ed single goals to the attacks of for the most consecutive wins on the led the Warriors with 27, II which period lead by whisking shots by Clark Hamilton, who scored a pair, road. In all, it was a most Princeton 76 Notre Dame 62 came from the foul line. Lenny Mohex. The Irish dominated and Dukie Walsh, who scored his productive road trip for the Irish, after that, however, as Allen seventh career hat trick. jetting them higher in the stand­
Princeton broke open a tight Notre Dame 98 Stonehill 70 Karsnia and Don Jackson scored to The next night, it was much the ings, and raising their momentum game just before the end of the first give the Irish a second period lead. same story, with the scoring com­for what hopefully will be a sizzling half en route to a convincing Notre Dame returned home and Clark Hamilton scored his second ing from all sides. Dukie Walsh, finish. 14-point win. Leading by two points ended their four-game spin against goal of the game early in the third with 5:33 remaining in the first Stonehill, crushing the hapless period, setting up what proved to half. the Tigers outscored Notre Chieftains. Dave Batton scored a be the winning goal by Ray Dame 10-2 to take a 35-25 ad van-career high 22 points as did Bill Johnson, unassisted and short­
handed. Donny Fairholm got into the act with a powerplay goal, and
,#Jc·;--~~-d··r ----~::~ ') 
brother Terry added an empty-net
lOSS~ ze Summer in Europe. Student sales 
representative for European flights affair in the dwindling minutes toI end the game.
needed part-time. Earn flight plus extra$. Send qualifications with jobAdS and personal references to: J1m I
I Moldane 919 Fernview Dr.; St. Harvard4, Notre Danie 3 
14 1

I Room for ren~~nR:a~e~:nd Walk ng ~o~is,_":_o:_ 63 · · · _:__ ......... . ···1 It was standing room only at
distance to Campus. ReasonaJie I I and pleasant. 272-1451. 224 David NOTICES 1 Harvard's Watson Rink, as the St., Roseland. 
I Irish collected nine penalties to the · ~~-·.R~~~~. $4().-0 ()·~--~~~ih·. ·233·. Need typing? Professional typing Crimson's two, and dropped the
I 1­
service--Top quality--Convenient lo-1
1 329 fast-skating game, 4-3. Notre
I 
cation. 232-0898. 
Dame, leading by a goal at ,the end 
LOST AND FOUND A-oLiL.:r···E·o-LicA"-rloN--<it.:ss_E_s__ l 
of the second period on goals by the
I LOST: Nickel·plated fountain pen START Feb. 7th--Beginning and I 
Fair holm ·brothers and Dukie
between Farley, Mem. Library clnd Advanced Sewing, Knits, Tailoring, O'Shag. Call Maureen, 6825 or Draperies and Home Accessories. Walsh were edged by an unassist­
I 1715. FEE $7.50--12 weeks at one night ed goal by Cochrane and · the per week. Registration forms in 1 
clincher by Nolen. 
I 'Fou'N'[j~-s~-~~i~~-;~~-~~-i~id-~--F-1 ;~--Observer office or phone: 288-1261 1 
I ~er:_?~c:_1~.' _c_~ll-~e_t_~-~~-~o_._______ ... ~~~~-~~~~a~~~~o~s~pt_. __s~ut-~--~-e~-~ I Notre Dame 6-2, Minnesota 5-3 
I FOR SALE MORRISSEY LOAN FUND $20-150±1 
I 
1 DAYWAlT. 1 PERCENT INTER skis, hart freestyle, 195 em., excel-EST. DUE IN 30 DAYS. LAFOR It was then on to Minnesota, where Golden Gopher fans were
I ::,;~~:~:;~~"· "" '""" "'" " i~~.~ BASEMENT F. " '" I
M treated to two of the closest games of the year. The first night, theI rested Irish, lead by two Paul 
l
···············································• Where were you May 16th, 1975? TYPING-35 cents a page. Calli Clarke goals and some valuable For more information, call8959. Dan--272-5549. assists from Jack Brownshidle, 
~~~d·-~--t-~i~~-ci? ..No:sM·c·--i-i~i,·i~~ A~~~-~~i~:·F~;;·;:~;;i·~r;:·M~-.--~~~--attacked Minnesota and left with a 6-5 win. The action got very tense Dukie Walsh wasamong those who reached personal milestones· · 
;4~11~.·~~e:=~·-~·~1·....:~:z~::arT1_to_~~~t when Steve Schneider scored an over vacation. [photo by Tony Chifari] 
a 




12 th~_ ol,s_ec~ e ~-___ Monday, january 24, 1977 
Irish pucksters sweep into second 

by Ray O'Brien Sports Writer 

In an all important WCHA series. the Irish leers swept a pair of games this weekend before a packed house at the ACC, against Michigan by scores of 4-3 in o\'ertimc and 7-3 to take sole possession of second place. 
The series was destined to be a L'iassic as Michigan entered the weekend as the top scoring team in the WC;HA averaging over six goals per game. The Irish boasted the stingiest defense allowing only b8 goals in 18 games. The last time these two teams met in Ann Arbor, Michigan won the first game 7-6 onlv to have Notre Dame come back the. next night and take a 6-5 decision in overtime. 
The Irish outplayed the Wolver­ines from the start with crisp passes a_nd smart skating keeping the puck in Michigan's end. After missing on many scoring threats Notre Dame capitalized on a Mich­igan error as Donny Fairholm stole the puck in the Wolverine's end and promptly got it off to Kevin Nugent who slammed it home with 
13:33 showing on the clock. 
Michigan should have realized right here that they were going to have to keep an eye out for Fairholm. At S-11 and 160 pounds Fairholm is one of the smallest centers in the league but what he lacks in size he more than makes up for with speed. As Coach Lefty Smith commented once before, "It is worth the price of admission just to watch Donny skate." And skate he did as the junior from Beacons­field Quebec was in on every Notre Dame scoring play of the night. picking up three assists and a goal for his efforts. 
The Irish continued to outskate the Wolverines throughout the period but Michigan got the one break they needed with 14 seconds to go when defenseman Dave Brennan sent a perfect lead pass to fourth line winger Greg Morrison who outskated the crowd and beat goalie Len Moher from ten feet out to tie the score 1-1. 
Perhaps the Irish were too concerned with Michigan's big guns. The Wolverines started the weekend with four of their players in the top ten of the WCHA scoring race (lead by Notre Dame's Brian Walsh). Dave Debol, Kip Maurer, Bill Thayer and Kris Manery totaled 136 points between the four of them including 62 of the teams Ill goals. However, these four did none of the damage as they were credited with neither a goal nor an assist in Michigan's three scoring plays. Shutting out the Wolverines top two lines is an almost unthink­able ·task but it still did not count out Coach Dan Farrell's team until sudden death overtime. 
After ten uneventful minutes in 
the second period with neither 
team controlling the puck, the Irish 
grabbed the lead for the second 
time. Kevin "the Stork" Nugent 
il!nitcd this break bv hitting Don 
fairholm on the run. Fairholm 
dckcd out two Wolves and teed up 
the puck in front of the net where_ 
Clark Hamilton drove home his 
fourteenth goal of the season. 
Sloppy play resumed toward the 
end of the period as the penalty 
boxes became jammed with two 
players from both teams. As has 
hcen the case in the past, the Irish 
fell on the short side during this 
less than perfect exhibition. Michi­
gan held the puck in their end 
during the three on three situation. 
Dean Turner then tied the game at 
two a piece when he drilled the 
puck past Moher's left side with 
the assist going to John McCahill. 
Michigan finally took the lead 
three and a half minutes into the 
third period. The tally came off a 
short handed situation when the 
Irish could not put together any 
semblance of an offense. Dan 
Hoene scored this one with assists 
going to McCahill and Rob Palmer. 
The Irish· last chance came when Greg Morrison went off for holding at the 17:47 mark. Notre Dame had several near misses during the power play attempt but could not score. The pressure paid off with just six seconds left as Greg Meredith tossed a last desper<1tion pass in front of the net which Clark Hamilton wasted no time in lifting past goalie Rick Palmer deadlock­ing the game 3-3 sending it into overtime. 
The crowd which was unnotice­able for most of the game with the exception of the everpresent "Ice Holes" came to life in the last five minutes giving the Irish some vocal support which might have made a difference. The home crowd had not been much help to the Irish earlier this season as the sparce crowds did little to effect the game. 
No one left for the ten minute sudden death overtime period as the Irish carried the momentum with them. Coach Lefty Smith's skaters saved their best ten min­utes for last as they took complete control during the extra period. Notre Dame pummeled Wolverine netminder Rick Palmer with a flurry of shots. Throughout this target practice the Irish could not ring the bell. At one point Notre Dame got off 12 uninterrupted shots. Just as it seemed the well had run dry, with two minutes remaining in the overtime period, Donny Fairholm, the man on the move, dropped off a pass to Dukie Walsh who found Allen Karsnia unattended to in front of the net. Karsnia made his fourth goal of the season his most important one as bedlam broke lose. 
After the game an emotionally 
drained Smith commented, "I'd 
sure like to say we did it on purpose 
to attract a crowd but I'd be a 
terrible liar." For Smith it was the 
second game in a row that his team 
went into a sudden death overtime. 
This turn of events led him to 
comment, "Corbies must need a 
bartender. There has to be an 
easier way to make a living." 
Smith had it a little easier 
Saturday night as the Irish wasted 
only 57 seconds before getting on 
the board as center Don Fairholm 
continued his excellent play by 
centering to Paul Clarke who 
slipped one by Palmer. 

Seven minutes later their was an 
instant replay as quick skating 
Fairholm stole the puck from Greg 
Natale and skated in one on one 
dropping the puck off for Clarke 
who let go a shot that hit the right 
post and deflected in. This second 
line of Nugent, Fairholm, and 
Hamilton was responsible for seven 
of Notre Dame's eleven goals this 
weekend. 

The Wolverines answered 37 
seconds later as Dave Debol, who 
came into the series as the third 
leading scorer in the WCHA, let 
go a roping shot that eluded the 
outstretched hand of goalie John 
Peterson. 

The Irish broke to a 3-1 lead 
when the fourth line scored a goal 
that came right out ofthe playbook. 
Roger Bourgue threaded the 
needle with a pass to Ted Weltzin 
who skated to the left of the goal 
taking Palmer with him and then 
dropped it off to Bob Baumgartner 
who scored his first goal of the 
season at the 15:24 mark. 

Notre Dame scored what proved 
to be the winning goal two minutes 
later with two Wolverines in th~ 
penalty box. The Irish barraged 
Palmer with shots and finally made 
good as Nugent tipped in a Walsh 
shot giving Notre Dame an insur­
mountable 4-1 lead. 

From there it was just a matter of 
guessing just how many goals the 
Irish could score. The Wolverines 
were missing the sharp passes that 
characterized the previous night's 
play. The overtime loss seemed too 
much for them to handle. Michi­
gan revived enough to score a goal 
with just over two minutes left 
when Debol found a Kaufman 
rebound in front of the net and 
slipped it inside Peterson's right 
leg. 

Notre Dame scored twice more in 
the second period on tallies by 
Schneider and Meredith. The 
Michigan's Rob Palmer played brilliantly in goal in the tirst game ot the senes, but was bombarded by the Irish icers the second night. Here, Greg Meredith's slap shot eludes his gra.sp. [photo by Tony Chifari] 
i 

Fairholm brothers teamed for the on goal. The junior netminder has eight points shy of Eddie Bum­Irish's seventh and final goal as the second best statistics in the bacco's second place total of 220 Terry took a pass from Donny, WCHA. points and 14 points short of John skated behind the net and banked a Fairholm played brilliantly dur­Noble's record of 226 points.shot off the stick of Mkhigan's ing the series leading all scorers The weekend sweep gives Notre Palmer. with six points on one goal and five Dame a 13-7 WCHA record which 
Palmer had a rough weekend as assists. Walsh's two assists Friday is six behind Wisconsin's pace Notre Dame fired 169 at the night put him in third place on the setting 32 points. The next stop for 
Michigan netminder. Peterson career scoring list. The senior the Irish is at Colorado Springs made some spectacular sav·~s when co-captain now has 212 points on 84 where they will take on the Tigers he had to, stopping 43 of 46 shots goals and 128 assists. He is just of Colorado College. 
Late U(~LA rally paves way for 70-65 win; spoils ND comeback 
by Fred Herbst Bruins. Instead of tratling by straight season. Notre Dame had 
Sports Editor seven, UCLA was down by only beaten UCLA in Pauley Pavilion 
three. 66-63 in December. "Notre Dame 
Dave Batton followed Williams has a fine team and Digger does a 
in scoring for the Irish, connecting good job. The momentum just
Notre Dame and UCLA decided 
for 13 points, all in the first half. shifted to us at the right time.'' to show people what college bas­Bruce Flowers added 11. Toby Notre Dame outrebounded ketball is all about yesterday. The Knight, who entered the contest UCLA 48-29 but hit only 41 percententhusiastic fans, the great play­with a 14.5 scoring average was of their shots from the field while 
ers. They were all in the ACC. 
held to only four points. the Bruins hit on 51 percent.

Despite the outcome, a 70·65 loss Hamilton followed Johnson in "We were awfully fortunate to for the Irish, Notre Dame coach scoring for the Bruins with 16 win the game since we lost by such Digger Phelps was pleased. This points while David Greenwood a large margin on the boards,"game typifies the series that we've 
added 14. UCLA mentor Gene Bartow said. had with UCLA," he said. "This The win gave UCLA a split in the UCLA is now 14-2 on the season, type of rivalry is good for basket­two-game series for the fourth while Notre Dame fell to 8-5. 
ball and for the college game. 
UCLA is a class team with class people." 
Probably the classiest player on the floor was UCLA's Marques Johnson. Johnson scored 23 points to lead the second half charge that propelled the Bruins to victory. 
Notre Dame held a thre(: point lead with two minutes to play before Johnson hit two straight baskets, one being an incredible dunk shot, to put the Bruins in the lead. A three-point play by Jim Spillane and two free throws by Roy Hamilton iced the game in the final minute. 
The Irish were held to a single field goal and a free throw by Bruce Flowers in the first 7 and 1/2 minutes of the second half, and fell behind 53-41 with ten mim.tes to play. 
Phelps' crew refused to fold as they reeled off ten straight points, six on Bill Paterno free throws. The rally brought to mind Notre Dame's miracle finish that ended UCLA's 88 game win streak in the ACC four years ago. 
Duck Williams, who led the Notre Dame attack with 19 points, hit three straight baskets to put the Irish in the lead 59-56. Paterno hit two more free throws and Notre Dame held a five-point lead with 
3:09 remaining. 

It was at this time that the game's crucial play took place. Notre Dame broke the UCLA press, getting the ball to Paterno who drove for a layup that would have given the Irish a seven-point ad­vantage with less than three min­utes to play -but Brett Vroman 
rejected Paterno's shot and turned Could you believe it? Digge• ··· 1"'t r '•oto by Tony Chifari] 
it into a fast break hoop for the 








