~­
............................a........~t......................~:•t....a..............~--~~------------------­
-. 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's Vol. XII, No. 57 
At Saint Mary's 
Security increases protection 
by Frank Laurino proposed community awareness­In addition, Rice stated a study rape prevention program by St. wiiJ be made this summer on the under-iiJuminated of
St. Mary's Security will increase Mary's Student Government. areas St. 
to additional "Poorly-lit spotsMary's campus.
the number of foot patrolmen on its According Rice, 
will be corrected," she said, "and
staff and a study into campus security personnel ''will give spe­
which existing
lighting will be made, according to cial attention'' to the central area of tree limbs block 
lights, as well as shrubbery which
St. Mary's Dean of Students Kath­St. Mary's campus and the main 
could conceal an attacker, will be
leen Rice. The security increase, a access road to the college. The removed.''
reaction to the Nov. 8 rape of two exact number of patrolmen to be 
Rice also confirmed that the
St. Mary's students, accompanies a added was not revealed. 
ND-SMC shuttle service will re­main in operation late nights and weekends. "Both Notre Dame and 
No students allowed 

St. Mary's will share the costs of the deficits,'' she said. Threatened curtailment of the shuttle service

on SU sponsored charter 
late at night and on weekends had by Dave O'Keefe agency looking for a Cotton Bowl caused concern among students 
who would been
Staff Reporter charter, although no announce-have forced to 
ment of the charter had been made. walk between campuses at those 
times.
The Cotton Bowl charter trip that "It was an unspoken thing,"

had been planned by the Student Gryp commented. "He said he As a result ofthe Nov. 8 rape, St. 
Union for students has been sold would sell it (the charter) to the Mary's Student Government and 
out by the St. Joseph Bank Travel students first, but he broke the Student Affairs members have Author Studds Terkel emphasized the frustration the "ordi­
Agency, which had arranged the agreement. • • initiated a program of lectures and nary'.' man, feels while ~orking. His talk was part of the 
charter, with none of the 228 spots There was also speculation that discussions on safety measures, Cardmal 0 hara Memor1al Lecture Series. [Photo by Beth 
on the plane going to students. the game tickets involved were self-protection and rape preven-Cutter]
tion.
Student Union Director Tom acquired through the University,

Gryp had contacted the agency thereby accounting for the large "Student Government is already 
before Thanksgiving break in an number of "Notre Dame people" informing students to take extra Terkel delivers lecture on 
effort to organize a student charter. on the flight, but both Wernsing safety precautions," said Cathy "We went to the University first, and Notre Dame Ticket Manager Hedges, vice-president of Aca­but they refused to underwrite it,'' Michael Busick refuted the charge. demic Affairs. "These new pro-

the workingman in ·society
explained Gryp. • 'They are nQt getting tickets grams should be a great help. 
Terkel spoke of the waste of human Director of Student Activities from us," said Busick. "Our We're seeking greater student by Laura Larimore 
awareness,'' she commented. society experiences -l
Bro. John Benesh said that Gryp potential our 
tickets are set asided for faculty, The first lecture will be held Author Studds Terkel related his by putting people in jobs that keep Iwas refused funding "because the 
contributing alumni and students. Wednesday, Dec. 7 in Carrol views of the American working them unhappy and especially byUniversity doesn't have the 
$40,000 or $30,000 necessary for There is no way that we can Hall-Madeleva Memorial at 6:30 man in a lecture given in the subjecting persons to what Terkel I I contract for large blocks of tickets, p.m. Attending will be members of Library Auditorium yesterday called ''the most insane aspect of
that type of thing. I referred him war.

(Gryp) to the First Bank ·and St. 1r ftA\umn\ the Sex Offense Staff (S.O.S.) and afternoon, emphasizing in his talk our lives": Joseph." W1 '3 1( -,~~:::::::.. officers from the St. Joseph County the frustration the "ordinary" man Job alienation is shared by both As a result, control of the charter ~ Police. In addition, a film on feels working in a job that makes blue and white collar workers,
Charter 
rape-prevention will be shown. him feel unimportant. Terkel Terkel stated. He said that themoved out of the hands of the The lectures will continue into next called for a revision of society's Protestant work ethic has little
Student Union and into the hands of Mr. Gerald Wernsing of the St. semester and will be open to values regarding the present work meaning in today's world; "sweat 
students from both St. Mary's and system in America. and hard work" are becomingJoseph Bank Travel Agency." 
Notre Dame, according to Rice. Terkel's lecture, entitled obsolete in the wake of modern"We were acting as a broker," St. Joseph County Police still "Reflections," was based largely mechanization.
Gryp pointed out. "We set up the 

have no leads into the Nov. 8 rape. on material he gathered while In defining work as an extensioncharter with the agreement that Head of Detectives Capt. Elmer writing his most .recent book, of the person, Terkel said thatthey would come on campus and Chikar stated that the police· inves­Working. The talk was given as people should have something tosell the package deals to students and that includes our own alumni tigation is continuing, •'but we part of the Cardinal O'Hara Memo­say about the work they do. 
befqre opening it up to the public." groups." ..._ 

have no developments--not a single rial Lecture Series sponsored by He stated that it will be neces­But when Gryp contacted Wern­W ernsing said that he got the one." Michigan authorities, who the College of Business Admini­sary for society to revise its values sing last Monday to see if the tickets from a wholesaler in the have a description of the alleged stration. and voiced approval for ''American necessary game tickets had been Dallas area. ''We've always run assailant and his car, also have no According to Terkel, people Socialism."
secured, he was told that they had, these trips in the past,'' he 
and that all 228 charter packages commented, "and we've always new leads, said Chikar. believe that something is beyond Terkel concluded his lecture by Arthur Pears, Director of Notre their capabilities if it seems better commenting that the small tri­
had bee sold "to Notre Dame worked through a ticket broker.'' 
Dame Security. reported that there than the average. "Americans umphs on the neighborhood levelpeople" while the students had Wernsing also said that no 
been on break. has been "no further development accept banality as a way of life," he were making the real advanres, if
additional charters to the Cotton 
and no change in security mea­commented, citing TV programs not the headlines, and wwldWernsing explained that the Bowl would be made available to sures" since the night of the and ratings as examples. eventually bring about the ne<:PS­packages had been sold to custo­students by the St. Joseph Bank 
attack. In . discussing personal cases, sary changes ..
mers who had called orvisited the Travel Agency. 

with The Madrigal Dinners a and Saint Mary's. Curtain time is 7 pm in the Regina North Lounge. [Photo by music students from Notre Da~e Beth Cutter] 




1hursday, December 1, 1977
the observer 

f 
rNewsBriefs--------~ 

Coal supply exhausted 
BERIJN --With ~ne last load from a mining district more than 100 years old, East Germany said yesterday it had run out of industrial hard coal. The country's hard coal industry, said the state news agency (ADN), "has been closed down because supplies have been exhausted." 
t==:::::=====:::::=======::::::::::::::==:::::::::::~ National 
Farm prices rise 

WASHINGTON --Prices farmers get for raw products rose one percent between Oct. 15 and Nov. 15, the second consecutive monthly increase, the Agriculture Department said yesterday. Despite the increases, farm prices are still far below levels sought be a new farm group called American Agriculture which has urged a nationwide strike by farmers next month to drive up commodity prices. 
Greyhound contract OK'd 
PHOENIX, Ariz.--A final contract offer made by Greyhound Bus Lines to the Amalgamated Transit Union has been accepted, a company spokesman said late last night. A bus company spokesman said the contract would be sent out to the union locals for ratification. 
Price raise seeked 
INDIANAPOUS --Citizens Gas & Coke Utility is seeking permission for a rate increase to cover natural gas storage costs. The increase would amount to one-third of a cent per hundred cubic feet of natural gas. -~...,..,-­

WEATHER ~­
Rain possibly changing to snow by late this afternoon. Highs today around 40. A 60 percent chance of occasional snow tonight and a c~ance of snow ~omorr~w. Lows tonight in the mid to upper 20's; htghs tomorrow mthe mtd 30's. Extended forecast: Chance of snow Saturday and rain or snow Sunday. Mostly dry Monday. Highs in the 30s and lows in the 20s. 
,..On CampUs Today_.......... 
4:15pm 
7pm 
7pm 
7:30pm 
7:30pm 
8:30pm 11 pm 
12:10 al1l fitm, featuring the three stooges, darby's ~;>lace. 
12:15  - nocturne nightflight, brian cronin plays progressive  
2:00am  rock, wsnd fm 88.9.  
6:30­ am this morning, mike ridenour and cathy murray,  

wsnd am 640.

8:00am 
*The Observer 
Night Editor: Paul S'=happler 
Asst.  Night  Editor:  Margie  
Brassil  
Editorial  Layout:  Martha  
Fanning  

Sports Layout: Bob Keen Typists: Karen Chiames, Gwen Coleman, Beth Rizzo, Lisa DiValerio Night Controller: Mardi Nevin Day Editor: Kathy Connelly Copy Reader: Ann Gales Photographer: Beth Patience L..Jtter 
lecture, "men's wear industry and career develop­ments in retailing," mr. alan b. sugel. sponsored by nd marketing club, rm. 122 hayes-healy. 
presentation, "belgium; country of beauty and excitement," henri-jacques vantichelen, sponsored by int'l student organization, international students lounge. 
dinner, annual christmas madrigal dinners, dec. 1, 2, 3, 4, & 5. sponsored by smc dept. of music, regina ilorth lounge, call 4-4176 for tickets. 
lecture, "artistic imitation, assimilation, and rivalry: the case of classical greek vase painting," peter j. connor, senior lecturer in classics at univ. of melbourne, art gallery. 
film, 11as you desire me,"starring greta garbo, erich von stroheim, audivisual theatre, cce, sponsored by dept. of modern and classical languages, free. 
lecture, "recent projects of johnson and burgee, architects," john burgee, arch. aud. 
talk, fr. theodore hesburgh, sponsored by flanner hall academic commission, flanner pit. 
Mac's Record Rack Rock, Jazz, Blues 
& Classical Give the gift of music this year! FULL DISCO SELECTION 

According to Carter 
US status on Middle-East changed 
WASHINGTON [AP] -President 
Carter  said  yesterday  that  the  
United  States  is  no  longer  the  
"dominant  intermediary"  in  th  

Middle East. But he offered support to all Arab countries that decide to negotiate directly with Israel. 
So far only Egypt has seized that initiative. That action was describ­ed by· Carter at a news conference as a "historic breakthrough." 
But Carter said he was convinced all of Israel's Arab neighbors ­Syria, Jordan and Lebanon -want peace with the Jewish state even though they have not accepted Egyptian President Anwar Sadat's invitation to participate in prelimi­nary negotiations in mid-Decem­ber. 
"Ifat some later date it becomes obvious that Jordan does not want peace, that Syria does not want peace, or that Lebanon does not want peace and a settlement with Israel, then an alternative might have to be pursued," Carter said. 
The obvious inference was that the United States then might support a separate settlement between Egypt and Israel, which some Arabs are convinced is already in the making. 
Elephant on the loose 

PALMDALE, Fla. [AP] -An 8,000 pound elephant named Colonel which ran away from a circus two days ago has managed to elude searchers as they tromped through fields, swamps and woods near this Florida town. 
''There is enough foliage around there that even a big elephant can hide out," said Jim Lyons , a spokesman for Circus Vargas, Colonel's owner. "We don't want a situation like a Tarzan movie with him crashing through a village.'' 
But Colonel already has scared farm animals, a sheriff's spokes­man said. 
Colonel escaped with two other elephants Tuesday morning after an electrical fire forced attendants to release the three-in the area just west of Lake Okeechobee. One of Colonel's buddies was caught immediately, and the other ele­phant was found several hours later in a pasture. 
The other two elephants are being kept in the vicinity to help make Colonel more manageable when searchers find it, Lyons said. 
"He's probably pretty scared. That's why we have our people up there,'' Lyons said. 
Lyons said three elephant train­ers are in the search area ''because when we find him it's going to be a chore" to get the elephant back to its pen. _ 
Colonel's age is estimated at 45 and its value at $35,000. 
Woodgie Lebo's to perform 
Woodgie Lebo's Rhythm Section will entertain at "Charlie's Place" in the St. Mary's coffee shop tomorrow evening. The group,· comprised of Notre Dame students, will play from 9:30p.m. untilll :30 p.m. 
phone 288-1178 Next to River Park Theater 
"But," Carter went on, "we certainly have not reached that point yet. I think the other Arab leaders do want peace with Israel.'' 
His public support for the steps taken by Sadat and Israeli Prime Minister Menahem Begin was tempered with the qualification 
that  the'fto  "exploratory  effort"  
should  be  related  to  an  overall  
Middle East settlement.  And  at  

least indirectly Carter urged Israel not to lose sight of the "Palestinian question.'' 
As for the Soviet Union, which turned down Sadat's invitation, Carter made clear that in his view the Russians cannot -and should not -be excluded from Middle East negotiations. 
"In the past, the Soviets have not played a constructive role in many instances," he said. "They have espoused almost completely the more adamant Arab position." 
However, he added, ''in recent months the Soviets have moved to a much more balanced position as a prelude to the Geneva confe­rence." 
Carter began the news confer­ence with an announcement that Alfred L. Atherton Jr., the assis­tant secretary of State for the Near East, will represent the United States at the Cairo talks. He also disclosed that they are set to begin around Dec. 13. 
THE CAUCASIAN CHALK CIRCLE 
Bredlt's Parable of justice 
and true belonging 
O'LaughlinA 
i rium, 
open Fri. & Sat. till 





Midnight 
Pabst 
case 

Busch 
case 


Strohs 


case 


Falstaff S269 
12 pack (bottles) 


Blatz S269 
12 pack 


Old St le12 pack 
y bottles sa.09 
Strohs 16oz case RllRl $498 
qt

$687 ScotchS539
Miscellaneous qt Cases of Beer 
Vodka$399

$385 qt 

Gin $419
Hamms 


qt.12 pack 
2128 South Bend Ave. 
Other U.S. officials said the date was one of several mentioned in private exchanges between Wash­ington and Cairo and that the startup time would be "in that neighborhood." 
Sadat, in sending out invitations, had set Dec. 3 as a deadline for responses. This led to a general impression that the talks would start then. 
Selection of Atherton, which followed by a day U.S. acceptance of Sadat's invitation, lends the prestige of the State Department's top Middle East expert to the Arab-Israeli negotiations. But department officials said they were no certain about the role he would play and added that it will be left to the Egyptian and Israeli represen­tatives to set the agenda. A small staff is expected to accompany Atherton to Cairo. 
The Observer Is published Mon­day through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. Tl)e Observer Is published by the s,tudents of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, College. Subscriptions may be purchased for no per year (S 1 0 per semester) from The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame. Indiana, 46556. . The Observer Is a member of the Associated Press. All repro­duction rights are reserved. 
Deceni>er 2,3,8,9,10 at 8:00p.m. All seats $2.50 ($2 Std-Fac-Staff) 
Phone: 284-41 
"0 c /( \1\ LIQUOR 


"-oR\.~ 
Old Chicago 
$149 



6 packs 
s333
Mateus 5th 

• ' t. . , #•4 . c ' ..-. ~
--~~~·.~~·~~c~,w·~·w·~·~.·~-~-~~ ·~~~~~~~~~~~~--~~~~--------~~-·-··---·-·--·-··-·--'~'·'·~--~~~~·~·~·~-~--~----------~.;--~--~~.;--~ ·' 
-


a a I 

Notre Dame 
Chorale 
to perform 

The Notre Dame Chorale will perform a campus concert this Sunday at 8:15 p.m. in the Sacred Heart Church. 
Musical selections will range from serious religious pieces to contemporary folk songs and spirituals, several of which have been written and arranged for the Chorale by the group's director, Dr. David Clark Isele. 
The concert is a preview of the group's winter tour, scheduled for Jan. 6 through 17. This year's tour will include performances in cities from Nashville, Tenn., to New Haven, Conn. Admission to the 
campus concert is free. 
Fall1978 
Aug.  26-28  Sat  thru ~  
Aug.  28  Monday  
Aug.  29  
Sept.  6  Wednesday  
Sept.  10  Sunday  

Oct. 17 
Oct. 21-29 Sat thru Sun Oct. )0 Oct. 31 Tuesday 
Nov. ~H6 Th thru Th Nov. 2)-26 Th thru Sun 
Nov. 27 llonday O.c. 13 Wednesday Dec. U Thursday Dec. 15·21 Frl thru Th (noon) 
Spring 1979 
Jan. 15 Jan. 16 Tuesday Jan. 17 Wednesday Jan. 25 Thursday Feb. 12-16 lion thru Frl Mar. 7 Wednesday 
Mar. 17-25 Sat thru Sun 
'tar. 26 Monday Mar. 28 Wednesday Apr. 13-16 Frl thru ~ Apr. 17 Tuesday Apr. 19-26 Th thru Th 
!lolly 2-lo Wed thru Frl !lolly 7 Monday !lolly 8 Tuesday 
llay 9-15' Wed thru Tues (noon) llay 18-20 F"r I thru Sun 
Watts critiques Carter's Energy Program 
DES MOINES, Iowa [AP] -Presi­dent Carter's new Winter Energy Emergency Program is a "giant step forward,'' the chairman of the Midwest Governors Conference task force on energy and natural resources said yesterday. 
''This is the first time there has been national planning to deal with a winter energy emergency,'' said William Watt, who also serves as an aide to Indiana Gov. Otis T. Bowen. 
The governors' energy task force got a preview of the Carter admini­stration's winter emergency plan, which was scheduled for release 
Orientation and Counseling for new students Registration for all students Classes begin at 8:00 a.m. latest date fa~ all class changes Fo~l opening of the school year with 
Concelebrated Mass. (Subject to change) 
Hldsemester R•port of Deficient Students ~re due in Regi5trar 1 $ Office 
Mldsemester Vacation Classes resume at 8:00 11.m. Last day for course discontinuance at ~tre Dame Advance Registration for Spdng Semester 1979 Thanksgiving holiday begins at 12:30 p.m. 
on Wednesday. November 22 C I asses resume at 8:00 a.m. last Class Day Study Day (no examinations) Final Examinations (No Sunday exams) 
Or len tat Ion for new students ~eglstrat Ion Day 
Classes begJn •t 8:00 a.m. latest date for all class changes Enrollment reservatIons for the Fall s-ster 1979-80 "ldsemester Reports of Oeftclent Students 
due In Registrar's Office. Mldsemester Vitcatlon Classes resume at 8:00 a.m. last day for course dlscont Inuance at Notre o.,. Easter holiday begins after last class Thurs., Apr. t2 Classes resUMe •t 8:00 a.•. Advance Registration for the Fall Sene•ter 1979-80 
and for the SUMmer Session 1979 Room Reservations for the Fall Semester 1919-80 Last Class Day Study Day (no e,...,lnat Ions) Final Examinations (No Sunday exa10s) 
COimll!:nCtdl!n t Weekend 
by Anne Bachle Staff Reporter 
St. Mary's fourth annual Christ­mas Bazaar, which will be held next Monday, Tuesday and Wed­nesday, wilf be "bigger and better than ever,'' promises Bazaar chairman Christy Jones. The traditional event, sponsored by St. Mary's Social Commission, will run each day from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. in the lobby of Le Mans. 
''The response from groups in­terested in participating has been fantastic this year," said Jones. "We'll have more booths than last year, and a greater variety of things for sale." 
''The Bazaar provides students with a great opportunity to do Christmas shopping, especially gifts for roommates and Kris 
. McGlynn named . Honorary Consul 
The president of the Notre Dame Alumni Association Joseph B. McGlynn, Jr., of St. Louis and Belleville, has been named Hono­rary Consul of Ireland by the consulate general's office. As the only Irish honorary consul in Amer­ica, he will be responsible for "protecting and furthering Irish interests" in the Missouri and Kansas areas. _ 
McGlynn is the founder and chairman for five years of the St. Patrick's Day Parade in St. Louis and was named "Irishman of the Year'' by the Ancient Order of Hibernians in 1970. He was the 1971 recipient of the Notre Dame Man-of-the-Year Award and has served as a director of the Alumni Association since 1975. 
should be stressed is voluntary fuel conservation. 
·"We found in 1973-74 that we could get a 10 to 12 percent level of conservation once people believe the problem is real." 
Watt, who has been involved in Indiana's energy planning siad the upcoming winter likely will be colder than normal, but milder than last year's severe weather. 
"You have to realize that last winter was the record. There was 
no way you could have prepared for 
that combination of problems. ''Temperatures were ten 
degrees colder than normal, the anticipating a strike by coal miners. 
''The effect fo a coal strike will depend on the duration. In '74, the strike lasted four weeks and had little real effect. But if we're looking at a longer strike," Watt stated, "then in the fifth or sixth week you might begin to see some serious problems with residential heating." 
Act no
W for WI. nter 
bt•cycle StOrage 
Kringles," explained St. Mary's Social Commissioner Jo Ann Bag­giano. "Besides, it's a lot of fun just to look," she added. 
The list of articles for sale is extensive. The St. Mary's Senior Class will be selling candy-filled Christmas stockings, the Junior Class will sell ornaments, Regina Hall will offer candy canes for sa,le and Holy Cross Sisters will offer arts and crafts plus stationery at their booth. Several booths, in-· eluding CILA, wiiJ sell Christmas cards. 
Other Christmas items, includ­ing decorations, will abound, along with wallhangings, spoonrings, pictures of St. Mary's campus, gingerbread men, many . ceramic pieces, ragdolls and Christmas candy and baked goods. All the booths are sponsored by St. Mary's or Notre Dame groups, local mer­chants or local organizations. 
The special attraction this year is an 8-foot stocking filled with candy, gaQles, puzzles and toys, which will . raffled off. 
Proceeds from the Bazaar will finance the Christmas party which the Social Commission is planning for underprivileged children in the South Bend area. 
~ PUBLIC MEETING , 
SG Constitution to be revised 
There will be a public · meeting at 6:30 p.m. Sunday in the LaFortune Ballroom for persons with suggestions about the Student Government Constitution revisions. 
All students are invited to attend and discuss the revi­sions with the committee 
k.ewritin2 the constitution. ...,;j 

1:30 to 4:30 Today and Tommorrow 
How Much: FREE for registered bicycles 
•1 for unregistered bicycles 
register bikes at lost & found office 121 Ad. Bldg. 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. any day this week 
• 
• 

today in Washington. 
The federeal emergency task force began work on the plan in early July, Department of Energy officials said. Watt said he had seen the final draft prior to fuel distribution system broke down and the duration was so long. 
"We anticipate a winter that's about two to three degrees colder than normal. But that's a manage­able situation," he said. 
The Lost and Found Office will • • accept bicycles for winter storage • • today and tomorrow. Those wish-• ing to store their bicyles for the • winter should bring them to Gate • • 14 of the stadium from 1:30 p.m. to • • 
yesterday's conference. _ Watt and federal energy officials 4 p.m. • • 
"There's no question this is a said states appear to be better There will be no charge for giant step forward. But where it prepared for a hard winter than bicycles which have been register-• • appears to fall short is if there's a they were in 1976-77. ed with the Lost and Found Office; • • 
serious national emergency -like "States are equipped to handle unregistered bicycles will be • Special 10o/o Discount e 
an oil embargo," he said. fuel allocation. And industry charged $1 for storage. "Gas rationing seems to be their seems to have stockpiled alterna-Bicycles can be registered at the e On All Merchandise To Notre Dame 0 
only alternative," Watt continued. tives -propane and petroleum -Lost and Found Office from 8 a.m. • • "That's not where we ought to should natural gas supplies run to 8 p.m. today and tomorrow. The • be." short," he said. office is located.in Roona121 of the e & Saint Mary's Students. 
Watt said one alternative that He also said Indiana officials are Aclmin~stratio~ ~uilding. • •••••••••••••••••••••• 
. ~ ' ' .·" .. 


the observer Thursday, December 1, 19n
4 
Carter pl~dges for.tax reductionS! 
WASHINGTON [AP]· President Carter promised yesterday to push for "substantial tax reductions" as soon as possible next year and said he might delay sending com­plicated tax reforms to Congress for fear that they might tie up the tax cuts. 
Rep. AI. Ullman, chairman of the Ways and Means Committee, wel­comed the ~:'resident's' pledge. Sen. Russell Long, chairman of the Finance Committee, said he had "no comment." 
Carter's go-slow attitude toward comprehensive tax reform means he might delay redeeming his campaign promise to completely overhaul the nation's tax system. As a candidate, he called the system a disgrace to the human race." 
Although Carter gave no speci­fics, Treasury Secretary W. Mich­ael Blumenthal has said the admin­istration is considering tax reduc­tions of between $15 billion and $20 billion for business and individuals. · 
One White House source said the 

tax-cut total could go higher than 
S20 billion but said he would be 
surprised if it went over $30 billion. 
This official said no decision on the 
size or timing of the tax reductions 
has been made. 
He said those decisions were 

likely to come in the next two 
weeks. 
The official said Carter's 1978 tax proposal probably would not include previous plans to eliminate tax preferences on investment pro­fits, called capital gains, and to · reduce double taxation on corpor­ate dividends. 
But the administration still hasn't decided whether to include a proposed cut in deductions for business lunches, the official said. 
Carter voiced the possibility of postponing comprehensive tax re­form at a nationally televised news conference. 
"In 1978, there will be a substan-

Strangled murder victims leave police confused 
LONG ANGELES [AP]-The 18 dicated she was probably srangled year old girl's nude body was found like the other victims. lying along a winding residential Police scheduled an autopsy to road-the eighth young woman in find out if she had been raped like the last month and a half to be the others also. strangled and dumped on sloped ot Initially, police had blamed the or at the base of hills in the recent deaths of four other young northern suburbs of Los Angeles. women on the "hillside st:-angler," 
Police are calling it the case of but police now say those killings "the hillside strangler"-but now, were dissimilar from the others. because of the latest case, they In Miss Wagner's case, there think more than one strangler may were several similarities, and be involved. Cooke said the investigation ·had 
On Mondar night, a neighbor been turned over to a 32 man reported sc:emg two large men , Hillside Strangler Task Force, 
for~e red-hatred L~ureen Rae Wag­~er s car to the stde of the ~treet JUst two doors from her home ui the Sepulveda area of the Sa~ Fc:r­nando Valle~, and drag her from lt. 
• 
Other rest.dents al~ng t~e ste~p eucalyptus hned Chff _Drtve s~td they heard dogs barkmg persts­
tently between 1 and 2 a.m.
T d b t d' d t ll h · 
ues ay, u 1 no reca earmg a car stop or pull away. Miss Wagner's body was found 
Tuesday morning by a woman taking a walk with a friend at a · bend in the road in the Mt. Washington area, 20 miles from 
the abduction site. Police Lt. Dan Cooke said the discoloration around her neck in-
made up of Los Angeles and Glendale police, county sheriffs deputies and coroner's staff. 
Like the others, Miss Wagner's body had been dumped within a five mile radius of Glendale. The others, too, were believed to have been abducted strangled and 
' . .

dumped from a vehtcle m remote 
areas. · 
But there was at least one 

dissimilarity. 
In the other cases there seemed 

to be attempt to hide the body. 
Miss Wagner's body was lying in 
full view by the side of the road, 
near thick brush where she could 
have been hidden. 
tial tax reduction," he declared. ''And combined with that will be an adequate proposal for a tax re­form." 
But Carter added: "Some of the more controversial items on tax reform that have been proposed to me -they would be very time consuming and have very little monetary significance -might be delayed until later on because I feel that it is necessary to expedite the effectiveness of substantial tax 
reform."  ,  
"And I  am  committed, Carter  
[Continued on page 11]  ·  

Concert Band 
I 
auditions 
The Notre Damt. Concert Band will hold auditions jfor interested. stu­dents of Notre Dame and St. Mary's next Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday. Music for auditions is available in the band office in Washington Hall from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. 
Music audition times are on a sign-up basis, with time slots posted in the band room. Students interested in auditioning for the Concert Band should sign-up for an audition as soon as possible. For more information, students should call the band office (7136). 
The l.:oncert Band makes an annual Spring Tour which covers over 3,000 miles. This year the Concert Band heads to the central portion of the country with sche­duled stops in Texas, Louisiana and Missouri. The Concert Band is under the direction of Robert O'Brien and is assisted by James Phillips and George Wiskirchen. 
Ballroom dancing in Flanner 
Tomorrow night Planner Hall will sponsor ballroom dancing in­structions in Planner's first floor study lounge. 
From 7:30 to 8:30 p.m. Astrid Hotvedt, coordinator of women's athletics, will teach various social dances. From 8:30 to 9:30 there will be dancing. Admission is free. 
Consumers test 'talk-back' television 
COLUMBUS, Ohio [AP] -When the Henry Eckhart family didn't like the rock show they were watching on television recently, they pushed a button attached to a 
computer in their living room. So many other viewers did the same that the emcee signed the r pro­gram off the air. 
Starting today, cable television subscribers all over Columbus will be able to talk back to their TV sets -voting shows off the air, answering quiz questions, bidding in auctions, and even second­guessing coaches in sporting events. 
t 
The Eckharts were among 200 families who tested the computer device j called QUBE which was designed by Warner Communica­tions Corp., whoss: largest cable outlet is the 100,000 home Colum­bus market. For a $19.95 installa­tion fee and $10.95 a month, subscribers can get cable service plus the black computer box attached to an 18-buatton console. The buttons let views choose channels and make responses to 
! ~­the shows. Officials will not discuss subscri­ber numbers, but before the advent
r 
of QUBE, Warner Cable claimed 26,500 subscribers. 
! Oaudine Eckhart recalled the 
I 
I night she, her husband and their I children Anne, 9, and Robert, 8, were watching O!l~ of the 30 cable 
t· 
channels that had "a roci show on, playing records." 
''They asked the audience whether they should continue the show or cut it off," she said. "We didn't like it, and voted 'no'. The emcee said, 'The majority rules. Thank you and good night.'' And the show signed of. Our vote counted." 
Susie Russell, who took part in the test with her husband John, said they especially enjoyed the quiz shows and would ''compete to see who got the most questions right:"' 
"One night he would have the console, the next night I would get it. One night, he was out and I took a sports quiz. I didn't get one right,'' she said. 
Mrs. Russell said she also took part in an auction, "but I only bid once before I chickened out.'' 
•'They would show an article and ask how many people would bid SS for it. Then the bidding agent went up until there was only one person left," she said. 
Like other cable systems, QUBE's 30 channels include some that offer nothing but stock market listings, consumer information or programs for pre-school children. Others, which cost from $1 to 53.50 per program extra, offer movies, sports events and college courses for credit. 
"Television was the very first step in home viewing and QUBE is the next _step -the giant step ·in television's sophisticated evolu­tion," says QUBE President Lawrence B. Hilford. 
Hilford said ;the name QUBE 
Student Union Social Commission Invites you to 
Do a number with 
CHEECH& CHONG 
With special guests 
'The Klee Bros.' 
Saturday , December 3 STEPAN CENTER 8pm 
Tickets $3.75 at Ticket Office and River City Records 
Add leadership 
to your 
college schedule. 

College military science courses are courses in leadership development. They offer you management experiences which will benefit you in any career, civilian or military. 
You can take the first courses as a freshman or sophomore without obligation. Advanced courses, in your junior and senior years. lead you to a position of responsibility as an officer in the active Army or Reserves. 
As an Army ROTC student, you'll also have the opportunity to compete for 3 ami 2-year full tuition scholarships. And you'll earn near­ly $2000 during your last 2 years of college. 
Don't wait until after college to get practical management experience. Add leadership to your class schedule now. 
ARMY ROTC. 
doesn't stand for anting but was 
LEARN WHAT IT TAKES TO LEAD.
chosen becuase it rhymes with 
For details, contact:
"tube" and because it suggest ''somehthing that is distinctive and 
Major John MacNeill 219-283-6264/6265
futuristic without being scary." 
\*************************************************** 
! I FOUND IT! ! 
* * 
~ at the ~ 
*

! NOTRE DAME APARTMENTS ! 
* * 
* *
! CLOSE TO CAMPUS! ! ! APARTMENTS STILL A V All.ABLE ! ! IMMEDIATE OCCUPANCY ! ! 2 bedrooms -completely furnished ! : complete kitchen and dining room : * * 
: $280 -300/ month up to 4 students , ; ! : call Cand_r at 233-6363 or 234-6647 *: 
.................***••············~··****•**•·····~ 

ND Faculty 


Chestnut awarded fellowship 

Roberta Chestnut, assistant professor of theology at Notre Dame, was recently awarded a fellowship for Independent 
Study  and  Research  by  the  
National  Endowment  for  the  
Humanities.  
Chestnut  was  one  of  173  

fellows chosen from 1737 applicants. 
The endowment offers fel­lowships for independent research to teachers, scholars and other interpreters of the humanities who have made or have demonstrated promise of making significant contribu­tions to humanistic thought and knowledge. 
Fellows devote full time to uninterrupted work on indivi­dual projects in the humanities such as literature, history, philosophy and social sciences. 
Melsa, Sain elected 'fellows' 

Two faculty members in the College of Engineering have been elected fellows of the Institute of Electrical and Elec­tronics Engineers, effective January 1. 
Dr. James L. Mel sa, chair­man and professor of electrical engineering, was cited for ''educational leadership in the information and control sciences." Dr. Michael Sain, professor of electrical engineering, was recognized for his ''Contributins to the theory of multivariable control systems.'' 
"Fellow" is the highest grade of membership in the. Institute and is conferred upon persons ''of outstanding and extraordinary qualifications and experience." With more than 170,000 members, the Institute is the largest profes­sional engineering society in the world. 
Melsa came to Notre Dame as chairman in 1973 from Southern Methodist University in Dallas, where he was pro­fessor of electrical engineer­ing. Sain joined the University faculty in 1965. 
Gutschick receives Neil Miner Award 

Dr. Raymond C. Gutschick, professor of Earth Sciences, has been awarded the Neil Miner Award by the National Association of Geology Teachers. He was so honored at the Annual Meeting of the Geological Society of America and Associated Societies in Seattly, Wash. earlier this month. 
The Neil Miner Award is given annually to a college or university. professor who is recognized as an outstanding teacher and has made excep­tional contributio~ to the stimulation of interest in the Earth Sciences. .Gutschick is the 25th recipient of the award. 
Thursday, December 1, 1977 the observer 
. ·. -,::· ~-~ ' ~ .·· ' 

Literacy test results give surprise 
TALLAHASSEE, Fla. [AP] ­First scores from the 117 question literacy test that Florida youngsters must pass to get high school diplomas show that a vast majority can read · but about 40 percent can't do the simple math required to compare prices of goods on sale. 
Results of the two-part basic literacy test administered to 120,000 high school juniors in October were being released around the state yesterday. 
This year's juniors are the first students who will be denied diplo­mas unless they pass the test, which covers math and communica­tions skills and is supposed to reflect ability to solve day-to-day problems. 
Those who fail either portion will be given remedial training under a special $10 million state program and will get two more chances. If 
Australian speaker to discuss art 
Dr. Peter J. Connor, senior lecturer in classics at the University of Melbourne in Australia, will speak in the Notre Dame Art Gallery at 7:30 tonight. The talk is part of the regular Thursday Night programs sponsored by the gallery from 7 to 9 p.m. on Thursday evenings. 
Connor will discuss ''Artistic Imitation, Assimilation and Rival­ry: The Case of Classical Greek Vase Painting." 
U1 SCOTTSDALE 


they still fail, they get only a certificated saying they attended school. 
In Miami, 42 percent failed the math portion; the math failure rate in Jacksonville was 45 percent. 
Smaller counties reported math failure rates ranging from 25 percent to 36 percent, which was about what state education officials who designed the test had expec­ted. 
In contrast, on the communica­tions skills portion, from 86 percent to 97 percent of the students passed in half a dozen counties. 
Early returns showed the failure rate on both parts was highest in predominantly black schools. 
One math question asked stu­dents to calculate the best buy if one store offered one-third off and another had a 30 percent mark· down on an item selling for the 
Men don't reai!Y m1 being chained 
... at least, when it comes to jewelry. Men's fashions change_rapidly. Masculine jewelry is the newest addition to the male wardrobe and includes neck chains and bracelets. It isn't hard to find the right piece of jewelry for your man. The American Gem Society Registered Jeweler is trained to help. See your RJ. Keep your man in style. 
lt's...Miller time again Thursday, Dec. I, 7-11 at the Library 5¢ Miller drafts for Y2 hour s~metime between 769 15¢. 7g7's 7-11 Sponsored by the N·D· Social Commission 
7-10 sl. 75 lowenbrau pitchers 15¢ Miller drafts 
sr.15 Miller pitchers Tag Team .Drinking 
-------------------.­
-l:J RIVER PARK . -~ TOWN &COUNTRY 1&2 
Mishavvaka Avenue at 30th Town & Country Shopping Center Telephone 288-8488 Telephone 2 59-9090 
-:t?nother man. 
anot~~r c~ance 
JAMESCAAN GENEVIEVE BUJOLD Weekdays -7:30-9:30 Untted Art1sts IPGI SAT-SUN • 1 :30-3:30-5:30-7:30-9:30 
1:45-4:1(}-6:45-9:10 
·..' .... 

~ 
LOOKING 
FOR MR. 
GOODBAR 

1:30-4:()(H):»9:00 



*The Observer an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's 
The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters are the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and letters are encouraged to promote the free expression of varying opinions on campus. 
Business Manager Sue Quigley BoxQ Advertising Manager Steve Bonomo Notre Dame Production Manager Karen Chiames lnd.46556 
·­
-
-
(I) 
·­c: 
-
0 
~ 
-
(I) 0 
..c 
u
·­
~ 
>­
..a 

·-

L.. c 
0 
.~ 
EDITORIAL BOARD 
Marti Hogan Editor-in-Chief Martha Fanning Managing Editor Bob Brink Asst. Managing Ed Kathy Mills Executive Editor Maureen Flynn Editorial Editor Barb Breitenstein Exec. News Editor Jean Powley St. Mary's Editor Katie Kerwin News Editor Barb Langhenry News Editor Paul Stevenson Sports Editor Pat Cole Special Projects Ed. 
Tony Pace  Features Editor  
Copy Editor  Joan Fremeau  
Photo Editor  Leo Hanse11  

Thursday, December 1, 1977 
Faulty Reasoning 
To the gratification of rectors and students, the University has announced that financial need will not be a major criterion for selection of resident assistants (RA's) for 1978-79. The announcement is disturbing, however, because it fails to recognize the special nature of the RA position which should exempt if from the financial need restriction imposed on other campus jobs. The major reason for the decision, according to Assistant Vice-Pres­ident for Student Affairs Fr. Gregory Green, was the time problem involved in distributing and processing the Parents' Confidential Statements (PCS's). Because the University would not receive the PCS results until April, University officers concluded that the requirement was not "workable." 
According to this reasoning, financial need might become a major factor in the selection of RA's if, for example, the results of the PCS' s were available in February. In addition, the decision specifically affects only the RA selection for next year. It deals only with what the requirements wDl be anti not with what they should be. . The University officers "wanted to be sensitive to the large number of students here who display some sort of need,'' Green explained. This is understandable, and we have no argument with the University's policy in regard to other student jobs. But we are concel"l!ed with the "needs" of the students who will depend on the RA's selected for counsel and example. The University policy al­ready exempts graduate and research assistants from the financial need require­ment, in recognition of the exceptional personal qualities demanded by these positions. Certainly, the position of resident assistant demands even more of the student who fills it. 
Last summer a task force composed of five rectors, Green and Mary Clare McCabe, director of staff and student development, studied the feasibility of implementing the financial need basis in RA selection. According to St. Ed's Rector Fr. Mario Pedi, a member of the task force, "We felt very strongly that .the calibre of student needed for an RA was the same calibre needed for a teaching assistant or a graduate assistant. In some ways personal qualifications are even more important for an RA because there's a lot of counselling going on." An Observer poll of rectors who were not members of the task force elicited a similar re.sponse. 
The administration should recognize the special nature of the resident assistant position by permanently exempting it from the financial need requirement. The Campus life Council should urge the administration to pro~ote the quality of hall life by removing this potential obstacle to the selection of the best possible hall staffs. 
DOONESBURY 

IT/.J.. Be A ceL.E8RATKJN OF ~~ CAI?EFfi?EE ~~ 81/TAT "DIE s.Mt: TIME, A ~CE OF 71/E A6CNI ry:. Vlffl/AM, THE 
by Garry Trudeau 
I«)W.. I /t:Nall! I FeeL TM~ 
®ll.TY excac:o 


The phrase, "Education for Jus­
tice," is a new one at Notre Dame. 
However, the education for justice 
concept or ideal has been present 
at Notre Dame for quite a while. 

This column, which will appear 
regularly in The Observer is an 
attempt to focus attention on 
various justice-related activities oc­
curring on the Notre Dame cam­
pus. By describing these justice­
related activities, we will meet one 
goal of the Education for Justice 
(EFJ) Committee--"to form in our 
students a deeper awareness of the 
implications for justice in the 
disciplines they are acquiring and 
the roles which they acquire in 
business or professional life.'' 

Finally, the "pilot" nature of the 
EFJ situation establishes no 
ground rules and a regular column 
focusing on a particular University 
committee's activities is a unique 
effort that, we hope, will be 
interesting and helpful. 

The central purpose of the EF J 
Committee is to encourage each department in the University to examine the following question: What are the Implications for jusdce In this unit of leamlng and . research? The variety of responses to this question, we hope, will touch the entire University com­munity and establish or increase each person's awareness of social 
justice issues in his or her field . 
The EFJ Committee emerged 
from informal conversations two 
summers ago where those present 
tried to bring together and imple­
ment earlier proposals dealing with 
justice-related concerns. That 
same fall interest was heightened 
by Detroit's "Call to Action•• 
where delegates called on Catholic 
educators to produce-an education 
for justice "which touches a Chris­
tian in all aspects of life ..." Some 
time later Notre Dame was selected 
Contributions Welcome! 
Send to: P.O. BOX Q Notre Dame, In 46556 
or bring to our office 
4th floor LaFortune 
Student Center as one of seven schools charged with initiating pilot programs which would permeate their institu­tions with justice education. 

This semester the EFJ Commit­tee was encouraged by the variety of activities that have surfaced in the justice area as well as by the response to the two major projects that have been scheduled, the "Neighborhood Roots" activity in September and the between­semester "Urban Plunge." 
The 30 members of the EFJ Committe include faculty from every college as well as eight students. Fr. James Burtchaell, former provost, invited members to join the committee during the summer and early part of this semester. The EFJ group has met twice as a committee-of-the-whole. Most work assignments are carried out by subcommittees which in­clude: --Programs (chaired by James Ster­ba) --Experiential Education (chaired by Peggy Roach) --Activities (chaired by Tom Basile) --Justice at Notre Dame (chaired by Ed Gaffney.) 
In addition, there is a committee which has been established as an Administrative Liaison and a Search Committee for Chair (chair­ed by David Leege). This last group is seeking a person to fill a "chaired professorship" in the area of Education for Justice. The entire EFJ Committee is chaired by Frs. David Burrell and Donald McNeill. 
This first colunn has tried to give the reader a quick overview of the EF J Committee and its role and mission at Notre Dame. In colunns next semester, a more specific look at justice activities will appear in this space. 



Thu~y, ~mber1,1977 
the observer 

postum. Acknowledgement of the Lavender) which were then. p~n­dean's assistance was inadver­ted to Brother Just and Mr.
Letters tently deleted from the news article Thomas Mason. In addition,
about the symposium which was Harold met with representatives
P. 0. Box Q 
printed in last week's Ohllerver. from Transpo on several occasions, 
Sean v. Golden and John Ryan and Mr. 'Arthur 
Dear Editors Aulstant Profe&IOI' of EngHM Pears combined their efforts to
Perhaps if the University would I am an inmate at the correc­have the bus run on the St. Mary's 
requested 
concern itself with the problems of tional medical and reception center Road for security reasons. I am
Morality 
rape and personal security as it has without family or friends who are really disappointed that Ms. Lav­with the legislation of moral and concerned about my health or erty failed to mention Harold andpersonal responsibility, and
legislation Credit
welfare. I am seeking outside John, who did the bulk of the work"rape" by and between consenting communication before I lose myself on the project, and that Theadults--via the sexuality rule and
inappropriate 
in loneliness. If anyone cares to Obllerver did not do further inves­
parietals--they could be quickly is due
write, my address is: tigation to determine who wasDear Editor: solved once and for all. 
Thomas J. Hedges . actually responsible for "'savingOnce again the administration of John Cooney Dear Editor: No.139-496 the shuttle." 
Notre Dame has attempted to 
Box511
legislate moral development and / d The shuttle has been preserved
Columbus, Ohio 43216 Dave Bender
personal responsibility. Additional nQ eqUate because of the efforts of Harold
Thank you very much for any SBP
security has been deployed to Jara and John Ryan as well as the
consideration given me. 
Notre Dame Ombudsman Serviceprevent people from abusing coverage Thoma J. Hedges
themselves--more appropriately, Service and Mary Ann Fuchs. Editor's Note: 'i'he Obaerver 
tarnishing the public image of the Dear Editor: Jara, the ND co-ex commissioner regrets that due credit was not 
University--whereas, few addition-I would like to comment on this prepared two proposals to save the given to Mr. J ara and Mr. Ryan for al security measures have been Observer-St. Mary's controversy. I Tha11ks shuttle (in conjunction with Robin their efforts. 
taken to protect the personal feel that St. Mary's gets far too 
security of the ND-SMC com-little coverage in your newspaper. munity, particularly the women. Indeed, it seems that The Observer to the dean 
Moral development and personal only reports on the social life responsibility should be instilled, aspects of St. Mary's. More . Dear Editor: not legislated (but with a few more generally, female sports and activ-1 would like to publicly acknow­examples like the groundskeepers, ities of both ND and SMC receive ledge the assistance of Isabel however, our community will soon little, if any, coverage at all. Your Charles, dean of the College of Arts .be corrupt). Protection from these publication is supposed to serve and Letters, in making possible the assaults from outside the com-both ND and SMC equally. If you symposium on contemporary Irish munl·ty--accor-ding to the doctrin' e t ·d £ 'ti th literature just held on campus. The
canno avot your 1avon sm, en 1 ·d d 
Of l·n loco n~~~-nds frequently CI·ted suggest stop publ. h'mg The dean's office generously provt e·
.---you IS d 
by the administration--should be Observer. After all, any news-substantial funds which rna e It the University's first responsibility, · d . d t0 possible for me to coordinate
th . paper IS estgne serve every-funding from the Student Union,
1

p.ot e preservation of its pubic one, not a select few. the Celtic Society, and the English 
rmage. Michael Szkrybalo 

()J)illi()fl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D~ep~a~rt~m~e~nt~t~o~o~r~aa~n~tt~e~th~e~s~ym~-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
In response to Danehy rumors 
The forced retirement of Dr. 9.) Co-founder of United Reli­Whether or not "publish or tian pririciples and his willingness cultures, in whichlife is viewed as Danehy is an issue that seems to be gious Community of St. Joseph perish'' is a valid criteria for to grant the student body the a long process of gathering wisdom fast becoming dim in the memory County, a fully ecumenical organi­employment, Dr. Danehy has cer­maturity it constantly claims to in the craft of living (Seneca: ••Life of the Notre Dame community. zation which replaced the older tainly not been remiss in thi:; area. possess. He submitted an appeal is short, but it takes a long time to . Moreover, in light of a recent Council of Churches (Protestant); Further. the progress of a profes­for cooperation from the students, learn to live it well."). Here the old resurgence of interest in Dr. . Chairman of URC (1975-6). sor's research is often dependent telling them that the problem was are revered because :the young Danehy' s case, it seems necessary upon the number of graduate not his alone, but the problem of want to cull the value Of years of to clarify a number of rumors which Now let us examine some rumors students under his direction, es­the class as a whole. He sees his experience from -their seniors. That 
have been circulating since his surrounding his retirement: pecially ifthe professor is handling role as a teacher to be one of we look to ..new blood" to improve retirement. The dense cloud of Rumor Sl: Dr. Danehy's retire­a class of 350 students. It is helping. To be a policeman was our education is in an important rhetoric and rumor enveloping this ment was a "rubber stamp" case. unfortunate that a currently oper­understandably repugnant to him. sense a sign of our ignorance. 
case makes it extremely difficult to All University professors who reach ating directive called the '"62-rule" Nevertheless, Dr. Danehy did final­Secondly, the image conjured up form a clear idea of the issues age 65 are retired, and Dr. Da­forbids a professor from taking on ly solve the cheating problem . by the idea "old" or '"age 65" is involved. Objectively, what is the ha~ey's request for continuation new graduate students when he without resorting to "'police tac­, one of a person declining in life. real Dr. Danehy like? What has his was clearly inappropriate because has reached 62. This rule exists to tics" and without hiring proctors. This ima&e does not fit Dr. Danehy. 
performance record been here? of this much-valued precedent. expedite retirement at 65. There is He mixed answer keys to the exams · To see this, it is enough to consider First let us consider his extraordin­Response: In the last ten years, little doubt that the course of Dr. and · insisted on widely spaced the spirited resistance he is of­ary record of service both to the 1967-76, 81 faculty members have Danehy' s research was influenced seating for the students, virtually fering against the massive odds, to Notre Dame and the South Bend reached 65. 54 were retired. Some by this directive. eliminating dishonesty from his the established notion· of •"forced communities. Then we can con­accepted or even welcomed the Rumor /#3: Dr. Danehy was class. It cannot be for this reason retirement. '' sider his teaching and research fact, but many would have pre­retired because he insisted upon that he was retired. It is worth noting that Dr. records in connection with some ferred to remain as active members teaching Organic Chemistry and Rumor liS: Dr. Danehy was Danehy handled the Organic rumors which need to be scotched. of the faculty. (See Report of the would accept no other assignment. retired because he was a malcon­Chemistry class, exceeding 350 
We list the services of Dr. Faculty Senate's Committee on the All retiring professors who wish to tent. He had a reputation for being students, by himself. His salary as Danehy over the years to both the retired, Notre Dame Report.) The continue are made offers which controversial, and consistently a full professor, after 26 years with Notre Dame and the South Bend remaining 27 were continued. A provide them with the opportunity failed to coalesce with standardized the University, was about $5,000 
communities. No students, and not precedent which is violated 33 of continuing, if not in their major University policy. To see this, one less than the average for a full all faculty members, would have percent of the time can hardly be field, than in some auxilary or only has to look at his recent suit professor. Given his excellent been here long enough to be aware termed "hard and fast," and can related field. against Notre Dame. record as a public servant, both 
of all these services. hardly form sole grounds for dis­Response: Dr. "Danehy never Response: ""Malcontent" is a here at Notre Dame and in South missal. Included in this 33 percent insisted upon teaching Organic label that must be earned. It is not Bend, his accomplishments in Sb. 1.) Elected member of Faculty were two members of the Chemis­Chemistry. Part of his versatility as fair to call Dr. Danehy a malcontent great a variety of fields, and his Senate for last six years: chairman, try department itself: Drs. Hamill a faculty member is evident from without citing specific incidents reputation as a fine human and 197&;7. Currently, as past chair­and Burton, who were both em­the fact that over the years he has where he opposed University policy teacher. it is no wonder that the man, member of the Executive ployed until age 70. taught Biochemistry, General Pro­for no good reason. As for his head of the chemistry department Committee. Rumor Ill: Dr. Danehy was gram courses, Irish, OrganicChem­much-publictted suit against Notre has said that his services will be 2.) Elected member of the six­retired because he failed to play the istry Laboratory, General Chemis­Dame, it seems pertinent to men­.. difficult to duplicate." The Uni­person F~ulty Committee for Uni­"publish or perish" game and try, History of Chemistry, Collegi­tion that he is not seeking monetary versity now uses two meri to teach versity Libraries: 1975-8. Currently because he was allowing his re­ate Seminar, and Chemical Litera­damages. He is not out for the the same course Danehy taught serving the third year of his search to "slide." His 65th birth­ture: Information Storage and Re­bucks. He only wants his job back. alone. It is not unreasonable to three-year term. day gave the department an oppor­trieval. In fact, Dr. 1Danehybas said Rumor J6a Dr. \Danehy· was suppose that each is paid a salary 3.) Elected member of the six­tunity to trim some of its • • dead that he would relish the opportun­retired ~ause he is Old and the . at least equal to the average for full 
person (faculty) Faculty Affairs weight." ity to teach the Collegiate Seminar University needs '"new blood." professors. The point here is not Committee of the Board of Trus­Responses In the course of a long again, but he categorically denies Re11p01111e: Because the other who gets paid how much, but tees. (Newly elected to a three-year and distinguished career as an that the Unive.rsity ever made him rumors are so obviously poorly rather, that Dr. Danehy was term, 1977-80, by the faculty at organic chemist with an esta· an offer to continue in any capacity suited to serve a.S grounds for teaching a course at .minimal large.) blished reputation in organic sul­whatsoever. The we.alth of Dr. retirement, this final rumor seems expense for the University. In light 
4.) Elected officer of the Notre phur chemistry, in both industry \Danehy's experience in so many most likely the grounds for Dan­of the University's concern with Dame Credit Union for 20 years: and education, Dr. Danehy has areas would seem to particularly ehy' s retirement. It is difficult to economic streamlining in the re­Credit Committee (1958-65); Board published more than 25 research recommend him for something like respond to it, because it finds no cent groundskeeper fiasco, Dr. of Directors (1965-present); Presi­articles. He has published 19 of Collegiate Seminar, which seems to fault with anything Danehy has Danehy's case would seem to dent of Board of Directors (1970-7). these in the last 10 years -a fact be currently suffering from a lack done, nm with any of his capabili­deserve a favorable response from 
5.) Co-founder of Catholic Inter­which hardly indicates that his of student interest, or in so~r-area ties. However, several things may the administration. racial Council of South Bend (1960) work has been diminishing. of General Program. Perb e be said of it. As students, we believe that we President (1962-4). Between 1967 and 1970 Dr. would be just the man to bridge we Ftrst, it is a peculiarity of our have lost a man who is both a fine 
6.) Charter member of Diocesan Danehv was an invited plenary gap between science and the culture to consider youth as a teacher and a great example of the 
Human Relations Commission (ap­lecturer at three international con­humanities for a great many stu­primary value. We have a tendency Christian values Notre Dame pur­pointed by Bishop Pursley in 1965); ferences on organic sulphur chem­dents. to see life as valuable on,y ·so long ports to instill in its students. We 
istry: at Santa Monica, California;
Chairman of the Commission Rumor 14s Dr. Danehy failed to as our physical QPabilities are cannot understand why the Univer­(1966-72). Cork, Ireland; and Venice, Italy. take active steps to squelch a strong and vital. When these begin sity does not 1-einsta.te Danehy, or _7.) General, Chairman of Project Since the inception of the U.S. cheating epidemic in his class to wane, when they are exhausted, at least negotiate with bim in a Commitment (1968-9), a four­governm~ent' s Fulbright-Hayes several years ago, and has been we consider people to be unable to manner that js fitting for one who county. ecumenical effort directed Program, only two members of viewed with disfavor ever since. contribute anything ~Y useful to has served ICJ~W, responsibly, aDd against racial discrimination. Notre Dame's chemistry depart­a.,.,....,. While it is true that life. We even wonder why anyone well. Is it IIOt obvious that Dr. 
8.) Recipient of NCCJ (National ment have been Fulbright lecturers Dr. Danehy did not enlist a corps of would want to go on livi!ll, let Danehy is a.man the University can Conference of Christians and Jews) abroad: Dr. Daneby was one of proctors to police the morals of the alone working, once the fire of Uluafford to be? award as • "Catholic of the Year" them (University College-Cork, Re­student body. his actual response youth has run its wa1ae. (1970). public of Ireland, 1961-2). to the outbreak showed his Chris-Contrast this aodaa to other 


8 
. -~ ­
FOKU.M.H 
After ten years 
Sadat's move sets new course 
TEL A VIV*Israei[AP]-The Cairo intensifying with Israelis in U.S. in which he flew rapid fire missions peace conference called by Egyp­supplied warplanes dog-fighting between Middle East capitals. tian President Anwar Sadat is the Soviet piloted, MiGs. In February 1974, Kissinger 
seventh major push for a Middle Enter William Rogers, then U.S. secured a disengagement agree­East settlement in ten years. secretary of state. ment between Israel and Egypt, 
During that time, U.S. envoys Shut out of the Indochina diplo­and in September 1975 a more and African statesmen have tried to macy of Henry Kissinger then ambitious "interim accord" was calm the storms of this region. At Richard Nixon's national security signed. Kissinger also negotiated best, they have brought about adviser, Rogers threw all his efforts a disengagement of forces by Syria shaky, temporary cease-fires. into the Middle East's third peace and Israel in June 1974. 
The first major drive for peace drive and chalked up one major But meanwhile, the Palestinians was launched in November, 1967, success. In August 1970, a were asserting themselves. Presi­after the Six-Day War, when the cease-fire went into effect on the dent Carter, who took office in 
U.N. Security Council adopted Suez Canal. January 1977, move toward a full Resolution 242. That broad docu­But when Rogers tried to get peace treaty and recognition of ment calls for trading Israel's war Israel to withdraw on all fronts, Palestinian rights. won territory for a peace treaty. It Jerusalem flatly turned him down. Carter hoped the sixth peace 
still serves as a cornerstone of Rogers bowed out. initiative, directed by his secretary Mideast diplomacy. Attempt No. 4 came about in of state, Cyrus Vance, would lead 
Its operative clause in 1967 was November 1971, when the presi­to a resumption of the Geneva the dispatch of Gunnar Jarring, a dents of Zaire, Senegal, Nigeria conference. But Israel still refused Swedish carreer diplomat, to med­and Cameroon visited the Middle to talk to the Palestine Liberation iate the conflict. East, hoping to win a role for Africa Organization. 
While Jarring shuttled around in settling the dispute. They came Then, Sadat made his dramatic 
the Middle East, faced with an away empty handed. visit to Israel on Nov. 19-21. In one Israeli refusal to withdraw and an Jarring returned for a final try stroke he breached the wall of Arab refusal to recognize or talk and found the gap as wide as ever. distrust that had blocked previous with Israel, the Suez Canal cease­The Israelis by now were being efforts. The issues remained fire collapsed. By April, 1968, a heavily armed by the United difficult, but the trip set the Middle 
full-scale trench war raged on the States, and Egypt had broken its East on what Egypt and Israel, at Egyptian, Syrian and Jordanian military ties with Moscow. Nixon least, hope wiiJ be a new course. fronts. and Kissinger were immersed in 
Within a year, Jarring gave up. Indochina. Israel contented that as Donation to library Then France, which had been long as it remained militarily Israel's major ·foreign arms sup­superior, the Arabs would not go to 
in memory of
plier, stepped m. The Paris war. government called a conference The phase "oil embargo" was with the United States, Russia and unknown then, and it looked as late ND Prof. Britain to renew the momentum though the stalemate was becom­
A donation for the Memorialtoward peace. ing permanent. 
Library's development fund hasThe Big Four envoys to the Everything changed with the been received in memory of the lateUnited Nations met in the spring of October 1973 war. The Israelis Prof. John Oesterle from 32 stu­1969 for the second major peace were shaken by quick thrusts from dents that he and his wife, Jean,push, seeking a firmer interpreta­Egypt and Syria, later repelled. 
accompanied to the University oftion of Resolution 242 so that Israel's American ally began Notre Dame's Innsbruck programJarring could resume his efforts. seriously to consider its depen­in 1968-69.
The four met 40 times in a year dence on Arab oil, and the Arabs Oesterle, a professor of philoso­before giving up, stymied by the realized the extreme difficulty of phy at Notre Dame since 1953, diedword "the." The French transla­bringing Israel to its knees mili­last June 12, his sixty-fifth birth­tion of 242 called for Israel to tarily. 
day. The current issue of "Theevacuate "the territories," imply­The stage was set for Kissinger, New Scholasticism,'' the journaling all occupied lands, while in now secretary of state, to mount for the American Catholic Philo­English it spoke only of ''terri­the fifth peace offensive. 
sophical Association he edited for atories,'' taken to mean some of First he negotiated a cease fire. 
decade, carries an 'In Memoriam'those lands. A three-letter word Then he brought Egypt, Israel and by Prof. Ralph M. Mcinerny, abecame and insurmountable road­Jordan together for a peace con­colleague on the Notre Dameblock. ference in Geneva which set the philosophy faculty and new editorMeanwhile, the Suez conflict was ·scene for his "shuttle diplomacy," of the journal. Prof. Oesterle's widow has been named the publica­tion's associate editor. 
Fellowships generously endowed to University 
Three endowed fellowships in University. While not limited to the Notre Dame Law School have minority students, the awards been established by a gift to the made from this endowment during University from Mr. and Mrs. Eli the past decade have amounted to 
Shaheen, of Sturgis, Mich. as much as 15 per cent of total 
One Eli and Helen Shaheen Law earmarked annually for such Fellowship will be established in students. each of the Law School's three years. At the request of Shaheen, who is president of Sutton Tool Eminent Company, candidates for the fellowships, in addition to scholarly Architect speaks excellence, will be expected "to have exhibited in 1869, is the oldest 
tonight at ND

under Catholic auspices in America. 
John Burgee, a 1956 graduate of

Shaheen has been associated wnn 
Notre Dame and associate architect Notre Dame for many years and for South-Bend's new Century has been active in campus Knights Center, will discuss "Recent Pro­jects of Johnson and Burgee,
of Columbus Council No. 1477, Architects" at a public talk at 8:30chartered in 1910 as first college 
p.m. today in the Architecturecouncil in the Catholic fraternal Auditorium. 

order. He was instrumental in 
Major projects or supervised by arranging a $500,000 endowment the New York architect include Ben for educational grants established Gurion Airport, Tel Aviv; National by the Council in 1967 at the Center for the Performing Arts, Bombay, India; Pennzoil Place, Houston; Burden Hall, Harvard; 
I.D.S. Center Office Building, Minneapolis; New York State Uni­
Concert tix 
versity Art Museum; Corpus 
Christi Art Museum, and the

still available Niagara Falls Convention Center. 
Burgee has also been involved in 

Tickets are still available for the Chicago's O'Hare International Cheech and Chong concert and Airport, Civic Center, First Nation­may be purchased at the Student al Bank, Chicago Circle and Medi­Union Ticket Office on the second cal Center Campus, two student floor of LaFortune. They will also union buildings at the University of be on sale at the door. lllinois and the J. Edgar Hoover 
The .Student JUnion Social Corn­F.B.I. Building in Washington. 
mission is also sponsoring a Burgee is a native of Chicago and "Cheech and Chong Happy Hour" is a Fellow in the American at the Library tonight from 7 to 11. Institute of Architects. 
Who are you, telling us how to run our business? 
It takes a lot of confidence to come fresh out of school and begin telling us how to do things. 
On the other hand, it takes an un­usual company to provide the kind of environment where that can happen. but that is exactly the environment you'll find at Scott Paper. 
We constantly search for people who have the ability to respond to chal­.lenge and think for themselves. those with the initiattve and desire to seek al­ternatives. the skill and courage to con· vince others that there are better ways and who aren't afraid to express their ideas. 
At Scott. we admire an aggressive stance because we are an aggressive company. You can make your own op· portunities with us ... arid we'll prove it. 
Contact your p:acement office for information. 
SCOTT 
an equal opportunity employer, m/f 
The Godfather, Serpico, Dog Day Afternoon... 

IN DOLBY STEREOPHONIC SOUND 
Daily at 7:()()-9:30 Sat.Sun.·2:oo-4:30-7:oo-9:30 
aR.;~·· 
AL PACINO MARTHE KELLER

NAAS· 
Daily at 
6:45-9:15

No Passes or Di I ---------------------------,
LEWISIO'S 
Spaghetti Dinner 
Basement of Lewis Hall (All you can eat for $1) 
Fine Italian Cuisine also includes garlic bread 
desert 
soft drink
salad 

call 2156 for reseruations Friday Nights 7-9 pm 
~----------------------------~ 
PREPARE FOR: 

MCIT •DIT •LUI •IMIT 1..-.-.J 

IRE •OCIT • liT· SIT 1MB I. II, III·ECFMI·FLEI·IQE 
NATL DENTAL BOARDS • NURSING BOARDS Flexible Prog,.,.. a Houra 
fJ"Jaere IS• ••ffnencetlt 
For Information Please Call: 
J
~.fl. 

Collect ~~~ West lafayette EDUCAnOuL CENTER 
%)-7541 TEST ~PAIItATION 
• SPECIALISTS SINCE l!a38 
Semng Bloo~P»n. Indianapolis, South Bend For IDeations in other ·cltie1 · 
Outside N.Y. State Only CALL TOU FREE: 8Q0.223-1182 
Centers In Malor US Cities Toronto, Puerto Rico and Luaano, Switzerland 
CLASSES NOW FORMING for LSAT GRE & GMAT 
~------------~ 

-
~ 
'· ' 
i 
S-­
• 
j 
'i 

10 the observer 
Vorster wins in South Africa 
JOHANNESBURG, South Africa [AP)-Prime Minister John Vorster won a clear victory last night in segregated South Africa's election of an all white Parliament. 
With about half the votes counted, his conservative Afrikaner based National Party had won 84 of parJiament's 165 seats and appear­ed capable of gaining more than the 116 seats it holds in the current Parliament. The Nationalists won 39 of the first 49 decided contests, picking up four seats held by opponents, and were unopposed in 45 districts. 
The liberal Progressive Federal Party, trying to suppplant the centrist New Republic Party as the major opposition, had eight seats to the NRP's two. The ultra-rightist Herstigte Nasionale Party had won no seats. 
Vorster had called the election 18 months early. 
He was seeking support for a proposed new constitution that would set up parliaments for the 
4.5 million whites, 2.5 million persons of mixed race and 750,000 Asians. There would be no representation for blacks, who make up 70 percent of the popula­tion. 
About 2.2. million whites were registered, and about 60 percent ventrued out in rain and gales to cast ballots. The country's 19 million blacs are barred from voting. 
Vorster, who also wanted a mandate to reject what he called "meddling," by the United States
' 
s and other nations in South Africa's l domestic affairs, was returned by a 
huge margin to his own seat. 
Justice Minister James T: Kruger, criticized at home and abroad for his handling of the death over how to react t.l black discon­tent, and the English speaking of detained black leader Steve Biko, also was re-elected. 
Vorster, like most of the National party leadership, is an Afrikaner. The Afrikaners, descended from Dutch and French colonists, are solildly in the majority among the nation's whites and support the government's apartheid policy of race separation. 
The Nationalists have a firm grip on most of their seats in Parlia­ment, and fielded 147 of the 275 total candidates in this election. Forty-two Nationalist candidates were unopposed. 
The opposition, whose two-major parties advocate some power sharing with blacks, has splintered whites were expected to swing away from their usual support of the opposition and toward the Nationalists. 
The blacks' unrest was mirrored in their election day comments. 
''The election means nothing to me because I am excluded from voting," said Joe Sibiya, a welfare officer in the hughe segregated Sweto township near Johnnesburg. 
''I just wonder how long these people think they can go on perpetrating the myth that I don't exist." 
Coal hauler Shadrek Libitso said: 
· ."What election? I don't know about it, but if it's for whites only I don't think I like it." 
Fitzgerald, Wimmer assume foreign study programs 
The appointments of Dr. John J. FitzGerald as director of the Foreign Study Program in Angers, France, and Dr. Albert K. Wimmer to the program in Innsbruck, Austria, have been announced by University of Notre Dame officials. They will asuume the positions in fall 1978 and direct academic activites through the spring semes­ter in 1980. 
FitzGerald was recently promoted to emeritus status after serving as assistant vice president for advan­ced studies and instruction. He joined the faculty of the Philosophy Department at Notre Dame in 1937, served as director of the graduate program from 1965 to 1971, and as acting director of the Center for Study of Man in Contemporary Society from 1971 to 1973. He has received degrees from Boston
• 

New filtration unit reduces anti-pollution costs 
An electrostatic filtration unit f developed by a Notre Dame en­
f ' 
gineer could reduce by 80 percent
I 
the amount of energy spent on industrial air pollution control. 
' 
1 According to Dr. Teoman Ari­man, associate professor of aero­space and mechanical engineering, calculations show that about $2 billion a year is spent natiomilly to -:over energy costs for the fabric bag filter systems commonly used on industrial smokestacks. But the combination of electric field with fabric bag produces an energy--and cost--savings of up to 80 percent. 
Electrostatic filtration collects more particles and requires equip­ment only one-fourth the size to produce comparable or better re­sults; , 
Ariman, who coined the term "electrostatic filtration" as well as the concept, has been investigation the collection of dust by fabric filters in an electric field since 1970. He says that today's basix: basic equipment--baghouses,elec­trostatic precipitators and wet scrubbers--differs little from that used 100 years ago. Until recently, there had been little incentive for improvement, he says. Collection efficiency was satisfactory and energy was inexpensive. 
Now, however, growing scarcity of energy sources is forcing com­panies to convert from clean na­tural gas to coal, causing them to face for the first time a severe fly ash problem. The Electric Power Research Institute is testing elec­trostatic filtration for future use in the electric power generating in­dustry, Ariman says, where com­panies forced to switch from na­tural gas to coal will face a problem 
·with submicron particulates. 
Apitron, a division of American Precision Industries, has begun producting the equipment for Ari­man's electrostatic filtration sys­tem, and a few companies in­cluding a large fertilizer plant in Houston, have begun using it. 
Birth rate is climbinQ to delight of businessmen 
NEW YORK [AP] -Businessmen are delighted that the nation's birth rate is climbing for the first time in two decades, because "from babies come business,'' an econo­mist for one of the nation's largest banks said yesterday. 
"It's not going to affect the Gross National Product next year, but eventually it will affect all segments of the American eco­nomy," said Irwin Kellner, an economist and vice president for Manufacturers Hanover Trust. 
''The baby business is big busi­ness. We have customers who sell to the baby market -baby clothes, foods, carriages and so forth,'' he said. "W•: also have people who work. i.a local governments who will be alerted by this to anticipate the need for more nurseries and public schOQis, .l:n~ ~~entuallv all industry will feel the impact of ·this as these kids grow up and become consu­mers." 
Kellner said statistics indicate that l4 million babies will be born this year, the most since 1971. He said the number of births this year has increased 7 percent over 1976. 
The nuinber of babies born is increasing each month, he said, adding that there may be even more births in 1978 than this year. 
Kellner has studied the trend because banks need to know how many consumers there will be in the future. 
The post-World War II baby boom peaked in 1957, and ''there­after the number of babies born each year dropped, not in a straight line, but in a fairly . noticeable trend downward until the summer of '76,'' he said. 

College, Louvain in Belgium, and Cambridge in England. 
Wimmer, a native of Germany, is an assistant professor in the Department of Modem and Classi­cal Languages. He was educated at . the University of Munich, Notre Dame and Indiana, and formerly served for two years as director of the Innsbruck Program. 
In addition to Angers and Inns­brock, Notre Dame students cur­rently study in London, Dublin., Rome, Tokyo, Taiwan and Mexico City. The University's Foreign Study Programs are conducted in cooperation with major educational institutions in each of the coun­tries. 
~------------------~ 
need posters in a hurry? 

I 
insty-prints 
the wiz of the printingbiz! 
1 00 -11 x 17 posters 
Only $10.00 203 N. Main SoBend 289-6977 
SPECIAL HOLIDAY RATES FOR 
ND I ST. MARY'S STUDENTS & FACULTY 
. Rent a full-size car for your holiday travels from South Bend and back. Return the car to South Bend for less than half-price! 
• $SO per week .•• 16 cents per mile. 
You pay for gas. . Round up your friends to make a full car and enioy the holidays at low..cost! . Call or stop by to get full details and reserve your late-model, full-size Hertz car. 
232-5871 

Hertz Rent-A-Car 
71 o N. Niles Ave. 
South Bend 


•
senzors: 
last chance to get your tz'ckets to the Christmas semi-for 
at the Library 
friday dec. 2 
10 pm-Jam 

REMEMBER: $12 A COUPLE OPEN BAR 
CHAMPAGNE BOTTLE FOR EACH COUPLE 
HORS OEUVRES & OTHER GOODIES! ! 
•

tzx on sale tues-friday Ia ortune lobb 1-4 m 

NEW YEAR'S EVE 
THE PAR1Y STARTS AT 8:00P.M. I I 
WE HAVE TRANSFORMED OUR RESTAURANT INTO A DAZZUNG NIGHTCLUB ESPECIALLY FOR NEW YEAR'S EVE. I I Sl59.50PER COUPLE' 
• 
DINE on a sumptuous full.course dinner of Prime Rib or N.Y. Strip. 

• 
DANCE to the music of "Aame", an exciting 5 piece orchestra playing 


• :~!~~;~it:~~:~~ evening k>ng. ~ 
• 
Champagne and party favors to set the mood. 

• 
Club Membership included. J


1 ~ 

• 
New Year's Eve Party 

• 
Two nights (Saturday and Sunday) in our comfortable king size beds. 

• 
Special full Breakfast Buffet morning of the 1st. 

• 
Continental Breakfast morning of the 2nd with bloody marys or screwdrivers. 

• 
Round trip bus tickets to the Cotton Bowl for the game! 

• 
Bloody marys. beer and soft drinks served prior to bus departure. 


MAKE YOUR RESERVATIONS NOW! I 
Reservations and advance payment in full must be received no later than December 27, 1977. 

BF..ST WESTERN INN -LBJ 
8051 L8J Freeway at Coil Road 0~. ~ 75251 
(2141234-2431 

~---~:: -------­
i. We will accept cash, personalized checks or cashier's checks. This price includes tax and ~­
i !:__··----········----------------··----·· 
.• ~ ~ . . ~-'•. ·•. -... 'c;'·'
. 

Thursday, December 1, 1977 the obstner 11
During News Conference 
Carter comments on Middle-East talks 
continued, "and the Democratic 
congressional leaders, at least, are 
committed to substantial tax reduc­
tion in 1978 as soon as we put it 
through.'' 
The president said tax increases 
will be necessary this year 'to
I 

restore the integrity of the Social 
Security system ... and to carry out · a comprehensive energy policy." 
But he said he hopes ''that all those 
changes in the law that bring about 
any tax increases would be conclu­
ded in 1977." 
In the House, Ullman said the 
president "is saying much the 
same thing I've been saying in 
recent month. 
"Increased energy taxes as well 
as increased Social Security taxes 
will need to be offset by an income 
tax deduction,'' the chairman de­
clared. 
Social Security Bill II may be conpromised I 
I

I NOTICES 
WASHINGTON [AP] -The 
House signaled a willingness to 
compromise yesterday on allowing 
retired Social Security recipients to 
earn any amount of money without 
having their pensions reduced. 
The test vote came a day before 
House and Senate conferences 
were to begin reconciling the 
different bills the two chambers 
passed to keep the deficit plagued 
Social Security system afloat. 
The House bill would drop all restrictions on earnings of persons 65 or older by 1982. The Senate version would increase the earn­ings limit from $3,000 this year to $6,000 in 1979, with automatic increases thereafter. But it would retain the principle of a limit beyond which a retiree's benefits would be reduced $1 for each $2 earned. 
Both the House and Senate bills 
call for steep increases in Social 
Security taxes to keep the trust 
funds guaranteeing benefit pay­
ments from being depleted. With­
out action, the disability fund could 
run dry late next year and the old 
age fund by 1983. 
The Senate bill would put a greater share of the increased tax burden on employers than on employees. The House bill would continue taxing both equally. 
As-the House named its confer­ees yesterday, Rep. Bill Archer, (R-Tex.) moved that they be instructed to insist on the House version of dropping the retirement earnings limit. 
After extensive debate, the motion lost, 209-183. 
Greta Garbo 
film showing 
The film, "As You Desire Me," starring Greta Garbo and Eich von Stroheim, will be shown tonight. at 
7:30 in the Audiovisual Theater in the basement of the Center for Continuing Education. 
The 1932 film, based on a play be Luigi Pirandello, is sponsored by the Department of Modern and Classical Languages. Admission is free. 
Pope Paul VI receives Gierek 
VATICAN CITY --Pope Paul VI will receive Polish Communist leader Edward Gierek for talks today that nuld boost Gierek's image at hva.• arc. 1e.:..d to diplo­matic relar ns with -~e most Catholic COL· n ..~ :lmunist world. The c-._ nother step in H -t-yc aucan pohcy of uc.w ...., .-and e~entually norma_lizing relations 
:r~a~~=r~~.:;~-~:s.t. ~o·:.~~-~-:U~~~~·-~­
Ullman said earlier this month · president, the chairman of the : direct negotiations .-between Egypt that he doesn't think Carter has Federal Reserve Board, or anyone 1and Israel than to have us acting as 
given up trying to achieve compre­else." hensive tax reform 1 1 as a long term On other matters, the president objective." But the congressman used the news conference to an-said he thinks the president "re­nounce he will send Assistant cognizes it will not be possible to do •Secretary of State Alfred I. Ather­that in this Congress." ton to the peace conference in Ciaro 
An Ullman aide, Bill Robertson, called by Egyptian President An-said the chairman was "glad to war Sadat. hear'' Carter go on record with the Carter called recent Arab Israeli promise. contacts "a historic breakthough" 
in the search for a lasting peace in The President also told his news the Middle East. • • conference that he has not made up The president said the confer-his mind yet whether to reappoint ence is now scheduled for about75 year old Arthur Burns when his Dec. 13. Sadat had set Dec. 3 asterm as Chairman of the Federal the deadline for answering h~sReserve Board expires on Jan. 31. 
invitations and said he would then 
But when it was suggested the set a date for the talks. business community might be up­As for the present U.S. role in set if Burns were not reappointed, Mideast talks, Carter said, "I think Carter said, "I don't think anybody it's much more important to have 
is indispensable, whether it is the a constant dominant interme­diary ... " 
Referring to the difficulty Arab leaders have in agreeing to direct discussions with Israel after so man many years of war, Carter said the United States is taking "concrete steps" to persuade Jordan, Syria and Lebanon to enter negotiations. 
He also said he believes "the Soviets will follow along and take constructive steps for lasting peace.' • 
Chatting with reporters after the formal news conference ended, the president said he would formally announce the schedule for his after Christman trip to Europe and the Middle Ea~t~n Tuesday. 
Turning to energy, the president said he will not retreat from his major legislative propOsals and might veto any forthcoming energy bill that does not measure up to his standards. 
In reply to a question about dam safety, Carter said there were 9,000 "high risk" dams in the nation which are not federally controlled. He said the government would "commence very shortly an inspec­tion of all those dams, "beginning with the most dangerous. 
After a privately owned dam collapsed in Georgia earlier this month, killing 39 persons, Carter had said he would step up federal inspection of nonfederal dams. 
Asked if he had made too many promises in his campaign, Carter said: "I don't think I made too many promises, and I think I'm doing an adequate job in trying to fulfill those promises." . 

I~--------------------------------~-----------,
I 
I

The outcome was a victory for 1Overeaters meeting. Holy Cross House 
President Carter, whose emissaries 14:00 p.m. today! had worked hard to get member~ --------------­who originally voted for an end to I TRY SOMETHING DIFFERENT THIS
I SUMMER: MANAGEMENT WORK·
the earnings limit to change. The 
1STUDY PROGRAM at Quantico, Virginia
House had adopted the provision 
I Transportation, room and board, clothingby 268-149 vote. provided FREE. Pay $115 per week. Abolition of the earnings limit I Contact the Officer Selection Team in the was estimated to cost the Social I Library or LaFortune Nov. 29-Dec. 2 9 
1a.m.to 4 p.m.

Security system more than $3 
billion annually. 

Moveup... flyMarine. 
Stand our hot F-4 Phan­tom on its tail and jet mto the stratosphere. If you're in college now and want to fly, we can get you off the ground. Our PLC Air Program guarantees flight school after basic train­ing. If you qualify. we can put you in the air before college graduation with free civilian flymg les­sons. Contact your local recruiter Now' 
Contact the Marines in LaFortune or the Ubrary today 9 a.m. ;~ to 4 p.m. 
p! -11'-~·&· ~--·"-.(-The fi!W. 
~ ..,.., -?~\Jd. 
.~ .. .:~-..The MarineL. ~ .. 
1 

I LOST & FOUND
I 

I Found: Set of keys. Call 8227 to identity.
I --------------­
1 Lost: Tan wallet before break. If found, call Jim 8403. 
Lost: Pair of glasses gold wire frames in teardrop shape. Outside Notre Dame Music building. If found, call 232-9176. 
Lost: Woman's gold watch around south cafe. Please call 6906. 
Foudn: Small cat, black & white stripes, with white paws and a flea collar. Owner please call 272-Q172. 
Lost: Two silver rings: One is a wedding ring with the inscription "To RMF from JEP 9-20" the other has two silver balls on it. Will sel soul for return. Please contact Theresa at 1880, 226 Lewis. 
Lost: Texas Instrument TI-50A calculator in Room 118 Nieuwland Wed. 11-16-n Please return. Tom 6713. 
Lost: One blue ski jacket at 101 Party. Please call Charles Wolf ~3. 
Lost: Pair wire-rim glasses in vicinity of Dillon Fri. night. If found please call 1 288-2456. 
-------· Lost: Dark green down ski parka taken at Stepan Center last Saturday during Blues Festival, if seen or feeling guilty Call John 6764. Please it's cold outside! 
Lost: Beige raincoat, Morrissey Formal. I have yours. Call 5463. 
Lost: In room 342 O'Shag on Wednesday night an SR-50A calculator. Great senti­mental value. Rewrad. Call Miek 8472. 
WANTED 
Help! N D guy must learn ballroom dance. John 1380. 
Need roommate to share apartmoot at Crestwood second semester (2 miles from campus). Call Vince at 288-1259 between
I 11 :00 and midnight. 
Two ticket to Lafayette B-ball. Call Tim 
8596. 

Need post-finals ride to northern Louis­lana or nearby. Will share expenses, driving. Call Scott na1. 
·--------­Need ride from So. Florida to Cotton Bowl and-or ride to So. Florida for Christ­mas. Call Pat 3385. 
Help! Need 3 Lafayette b-ball tickets. 
Call Dick 8327. 

TYPIST WANTED: Full-time, to typeset1display advertising, Monclly and Wid­1nesdly thru Slturdly lftlmoons and« 1Mnings. Hourty pay. Experttnce helpful 
but not IIICISIIry. Apply In penon It:I The Penny Slwr, ~102 S. Mlchlgln St.,I South BIMICI, 111-141~.a----· 
Classified Ads 
Male grad stud. wants to share apt. with same (spr. sem.) Write: Mark Thompson, 105 Dorchester Rd., Louisville, Kentucky 40223. 
TENNIS PROS AND ASSISTANT PROS-Seasonal and year-round clubs; good playing and teaching background. Call 
(301) 654-3nO, or send 2 complete resumesand2picturesto: Col. R. Reade, W.T.S., 8401 Connecticut Avenue, Suite 1011, Chevy Chase, MD 20015. 
ND student would like to sub-let Campus 
View apt. Call 2n-2552. 
Julio's has opening for delivery personnel either Sat. or Sunday or both days available from 5 p.m. until 2 a.m. Must have own car. Guaranteed $3.00 per hour plus tips. Call 233-2354. 
FOR SALE 

1971 Capri, 89,000 mi. runs well, must sacrifice $450. Call 4438. 
Junior Formal ticket. Call 5n9. 
Sansui receiver, 100 watts, needs work. Teac reel to reel, Pioneer speakers, Garrard turntable. Must sell, separate or together. 8338. 
WHY PAY MORE?? Flanner Records has all $6.981ist lp's for only $4.50. All $7.98 list lp's only $5.29. Over 400 albums In stock. Phone orders accepted. FLANNER RECORDS, 322 Flanner, phone 2741. Hours M-Thu 4-5, 6:30-8:00. sun 2-3:30. 
1pair Presage Model15 speakers. Great sound, great price. Call 8n4, 440 Stanford. 
Remington uprite typewriter, large car­riage, regular plus one row of engineer­ing keys and symbols. Good condition. $75.00. Call 234-Q790. 
PERSONALS 

Hey all Paddlefisher's, You too can own a silly-looking paddlefish cap like Tom Feifer's. Call him and find out how. 
EASYED: Congrats on your 18th. You may think you're a man now, but don't fool yourself. We know better. The Carroll Crew 
I'd like to share a Hickory vmage apt. with graduate student. $75 per month. Need references and security deposH. 272-fi517. 
Sheila, Here's your very own "personal personal." Happy Dec. 1st! S 
Full color USC ICtlon pictures still available In 318 Zahm. Calf 8982. 
Jerry, JJ & other Miami goers, Have fun!! Don't get tan! ! G 
Anita Kosinski for Little Miss Paddlefish. 
Darby O'Gill is interested In meeting the female cocker spaniel who is his look­alike, believed to be owned by an off­campus student. Darby says he has a pedigree & will inherit money. Call 283-7006. Fr Griffin 
Sophomore class gym shorts will be on sale until Dec. 1st. Hurry! They are downstairs at the class office and there are only 300! 
GETSOAKEDTOTHEGILLSPaddleflsh Happy Hour Friday. Dec. 2, .,.nm 3 p.m. 
II 
I I 

ECLUPSE PARTY II: 1014 St. Louis does 1 it again Thursday night. The moon will be shining brightly. 
Take it Easy, Ed (Or any way you can get it). Happy Birthd~y from Hogie, Flash, Kid, Dutch, Chris, T.S., Toms, and the rest of the Carroll gang. 
RATER VIC· Why don't you just dump 
Fifth Hour and get a job with the CIA? 
They need women with your talents. 
The Backwards Mountie But you're slipP.ing. Why didn't you find out his mothers maiden name? 
A special hello to the D-line checker with the great memory. (Yes, BK, that's you) from two of your mealtime friends 
Bruce and Bruce, I know it's a little late, but thanks for all the Turkey Day goodies. You guys are real butch, and not some of those cheap tarts from Wales. I love you spamingly, 
Bye-bye, 
Mother 
Killer Bob, Watch out! The Communists are coming and they want YOU!! HoChi Minh 
FLASH Paddlefish Happy Hour -mixed drinks $.50, beers -$.25. A Paddlefish Cocktail will be featured. Everyone is elusively invited, so be there. Be alive, take a dive! (BAA)
P.s. Rumor has it that Lewisio's is the place to be after the Happy Hour. 
Steve Horak, Hey there, Speedo! Hit the triple crown yet? How was stuffing the turkey in Chicago? 
Antiseptically, 
A Porter 
Snuggley, Engagement T-minus 1 year, 25 days and counting. I love you. Upper Class Twit 
Holly, I have to call in my debts. G 
KAREN CHIAMES 
THE "BELL" OF SAINT MARY'S. LET HER RING YOURS. CALL 5404. 
Bill Sawyer Happy "22" Birthday I 
Lory K., Noticed you went ice-skating. How sore are you? 
SCHLOP 
The Endangered Species declare Super Birdman extinct II of December 1, 19'n. 

,..­
Thomas M. Felfar for Little Miss Paddle fish. 
Ohio C439E Dillon, Thanks, you were the highlight of our trip home. When's the snowcheck'? 
New Jersey UNO SMC 
P.S. Does tove begin on Route 80 West? 
Dur Sincere, You hhf tour options: Find 1 ltrllt comer, stop by 1011, start advertising, or stralglnan out your hubby. 
1011 Flinner 
Hot Toes: When out Saturday night with a hog Who resembles a sad puppy dog, 
Don't singe his poor hands If your paw he demands And we hope there won't be too much fog!! From a Fellow Fallen Woman 1 

.l£~;~!h;tcL:~J~lQ~~ ~;~.~~·:_~i~·~cidfat:Jrl~:rv~ ~P.1tu_~~:·~.~-~---~~~~.'.'·'· :.·:~~~~·:.:.:~1····~ 
1 
~ 



Thursday, December 1, 19n
Notre Dame buries Baylor, 98-57 
by Paul Stevenson Sports Editor 

Baylor will certainly be glad to 
,, return to Waco, although the Bears t probably wished they would have stayed in hibernation and never come to Notre Dame as the Irish hardcourt specialists handed the Lone Star fivesome their first loss of the season, 98-57. "Notre Dame is everything they are cracked up to be,'' Baylor Head Coach Jim Haller stated after his teams first contest with the Irish. "They're a super-powerful team in
~ 
every respect." 

The Irish captured the opening tip-off and Duck Williams found Dave Batton underneath who went up for the score. Batton, being fouled by Baylor's Russell Oliver, tallied on his free throw to give the Irish a lead they would never surrender. 
All in all, the Irish Colt connec­ted on nine of ten field goal attempts and hit two of four shots from the charity stripe to lead all scorers with 20 points. Batton also chipped in six rebounds during his 20 minutes of action. 
The Irish boasted three more players in double figures in the Baylor clash. Williams notched 11 markers and Rich Branning ac­counted for 14 points. However, Kelly Tripucka, who scored 16 

> points in the Mississippi battle, 
) registered 18 points. Tripucka found the range on five of seven shots from the field and eight of eight from the gift line. The freshman swingman also hauled in eight rebounds, second only to Bill Laimbeer who accounted for 11 Notre Dame caroms. 

The Fighting Irish used their abundance of talent to run over and tire out the Baylor cagers. Eleven players all logged over ten minutes of playing time with not one player exceeding 26 minutes of action. 
ball tonight,'' Irish mentor Digger Phelps commented. "Offensively we ran our passing game and stuck with simplicity, playing the bench and getting all the personnel playing time. As we keep subbing, we develop more depth." 
The outcome was revealed quick­ly when at the 15:23 mark of the first half, Williams connected from 18 feet out off the fast break. After that tally, Baylor wanted a timeout, finding the Irish ahead 16-6. 
But, the Notre Dame offense continued to pump in the shots to take a 52-32 advantage at halftime after Tripucka hit on two free throws. The Irish continued their domination after intermission, leaving no doubt as to the final result. 
The Bears were led by Wendell Mays, who hit on six of 11 from the field for 12 points. However, with 
7:20 left in the contest, Mays fouled out of the game. Also notching 12 markers was Oliver, while Marty Zeller was next in line with eight points. 
Arthur Edwards led the Bears in rebounding, registering nine caroms. Mays and Oliver also provided strength off the boards, following Edwards with six re­bounds each. 

The Irish just possessed too much depth for the Bears to keep pace, rotating 11 men throughout the game. "I can put in my spurt for six or seven minutes and then be able to rest," Batton commented. With fresh people in the lineup, we can just use our power.'' 
The Notre Dame basketball team illustrated their power through out the clash, keeping their lineup new and mixing up their defenses. Batton, however, aside from being rested, played a sensational game, especially since his 20 points were scored in only 20 minutes of action. 
While substituting freely, however, Notre Dame looked some­what ragged at times, as illustrated by their 19 turnovers. Also, the Irish only managed to outrebound a much smaller Baylor team 54 to 49. Finding enough playing time for such a talented squad is one 
·problem Phelps must overcome to 
produce a polished team come 
March. 
Notre Dame, now 2-0 must start to prepare for Valparaiso this Saturday. Game time is set for 1 :30 
p.m. in the ACC. The Baylor Bears 
return home this weekend to host this charging foul didn't detract much from Dave Batton's 20 pointNorth Texas State on December 3. performance. [Photo by Doug Christian] 
Irish grapplers capture state crown 
by Brian Beglane bring home a championship from while Pat Landfried and Mike 
Sports Writer the Indiana State tourney. Padden made it all the way to the 
Dave DeSabato helped the Notre "Dave pulled a complete turn-finals before bowing out. Dame wrestling team finish its around from his performance at Landfried lost to Jeff Fitch of "preliminary season" on a cham-Michigan State (Nov. 18-19) and Indiana State for the second pionship note, capturing a first wrestled well," noted Irish Coach straight year at the Indiana State place crown at the Indiana State Ray Sepeta, who is an advisor in Tourney for the 158 pound title. Invitational Tournament Nov. 22-23 the Freshman Year of Studies The senior from Notre Dame has at Terry Haute. The Irish placed Office. "Having three wrestlers in come close to a championship in three grapplers in the finals and the finals was a good overall both of his outings this year, DiSabato was the only one who took performance for the team.'' finishing second at the Michigan the top spot, becoming just the DiSabato's first place finish State Tournament held Nov. 18-19. 
"We played very basic basket-second Notre Dame wrestler to came in the 126 pound weight class Mike Padden failed to repeat his
Tom Desmond•:================:=:===========:=======:===:====:::::=:::=:=::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=========:=:=============:===:===========================================:===:=========:=:==============================:============================:================:==========================:===;=;=;=;=;=:= 
Strategy 
===~===========================================:=======================================================================================================:=:========:====:=================================:=====================================================
The 42nd Cotton Bowl Classic will pit the 11-0 Texas Longhorns and the 10-1 Notre Dame Fighting Irish against each other on January 2nd. Right? Not yet. 
Sure the Irish and Longhorns will hook up in Dallas and the host team will be 11-0, but at present the Irish are 9-1 and that 10th victory will have 
~· 
to be earned on Saturday. In all probability the Irish will be 10-1 but the 
! test of things will be how Notre Dame posts that tenth victory. Oklahoma killed Nebraska last Friday and Alabama had little trouble with Auburn, and arch-rival that always plays its best against the Tide. These are two teams that stand the best chance to benefit should the Irish force the Longhorns to abdicate. But, the Irish are the only major team playing this Saturday so what national attention the college scene will get this weekend will be focused in Miami. To claim that the Cotton Bowl game will be a battle for the
> 
whole ball of wax, Coach Devine's team will have to win without difficulty 
in Miami. Something just short of a blood-letting will do. 
The Irish do indeed have a chance to capture college football's top prize as the strength of the Notre Dame squad will be demonstrated every time an all-America team is announced. In whatever limelight college football will muster this weekend, a domination of the Hurricanes in every phase of the game will buoy the hopes of the loyal. Here is what the first non-sellout crowd for the Irish this fall and the television in South Bend will see when Notre Dame and Miami meet Saturday night at 8 p.m. 
When the Hurricanes have the ball: Lou Saba.n. the Miami head coach, has entrusted the offensive fortunes to a bevy of youngsters with freshmen in four of the six skill positions. At quarterback is 6-2, 182 Ken McMillian who has hit on 54 percent of his passes for 318 yards and four touchdowns. 
Ottis (O.J .) Anderson is a junior and he is the Hurricanes leading rusher averaging just over four yards per carry and he has being aided now by freshman halfback Chris Hobbs who has gained over 200 yards on 44 carries, including a 62-yarder last Saturday against Florida. 
In the receiving department, another first-year man, Pat Walker, paces the team with 20 catches. Anderson, cut in the moldofformer Miami start Chuck Foreman, has 17 receptions for 204 yards and three touchdowns. 
Defensiviely, the Irish are as healthy as they have been all season as only Ross Christensen remains on the injured list among the defensive players. Bob Golic, just named to AP's second team All-America squad needs but 13 tackles to tie Greg Collin's mark of 144 in a season. Golic will certainly have his opportunity to take a shot at the record because fullback Anderson is the workhorse of the Hurricane offense. 
Luther Bradley, another second team selection, need one interception to set the career mark while the Irish need but one to establish a new team record for interceptions in a season. The defense will be facing a balanced attack and it will be up to Bradley and company to make sure that the Irish don't get fooled by any surprise calls or plays that seem to surface in season finales. 
When the Irish have the ball: Steve Orsini, still suffering from the neck injury he received several weeks ago is the only player on the injured list as the offense will fit and able for the Hurricanes. Averaging 46 points and improving their total offense output to a fifth ranked 443 yards per 

, game the Irish offense will be looking to keep the balanced attack in gear. 
·. t. ... t I "'-'· • . 

---·--­
The return of Vagas Ferguson has been a shot in the arm to the Irish backfield which had been riddled with injuries. Ferguson is averaging an exceptional 6.4-yards per carry and ran his way to the bench in Notre Dame's last outing as he garnered 128 yards and three touchdowns in the first half alone. 
Joe Montana, an honorable mention on AP's honor squad, is 14th in total offense and continues to hit his second and third receivers with poised skill. Ken MacAfee, recently named the Walter Camp Foundation Player of the Year as well as first-team All-America is lOth nationally in receiving with 4.9 catches per game. Kris Haines is averaging an outstanding 22.0 yards per catch and is just one-tenth of a yard off the record for yards-per-catch in a season. ­
To counter the Irish offense, Miami will employ the pro-style 3-4 defense as a reflection of head coach Lou Saban. Senior middle guard Don Lattimer anchors the Hurrincane rushing defense as he stands 6-3 and tips the scales at 253. Additionally, the Hurricanes feature two big and quick linebackers, George Halas (6-3, 230) and John McGriff (6-3, 242). 
Free Safety Bryan Ferguson ranks fourth nationally with seven interceptions and spearheads the able Miami secondary. The Hurricanes were ranked nationally in the pass defense until running into the speedy Florida passing attack last week. 
Specialists: Senior Chris Dennis handles the kicking chores for Miami and has hit on all 11 of his extra point tries and eight of 17 field goal attempts. 
Rob Rajslch provides Miami with a strong punting game as he averages 
41.4 yards per kick. Dave Reeve needs two points to set the single-season kick scoring record and nine to tie fosr the all-time career scoring mark of 250 points. 
Joe Restic is coming off a longer layoff than the rest of his teammates as he did not have to punt in the Air Force contest. Restic will carry a 37.2 yard average into the contest. 
Intangibles: Four years ago Notre Dame had arranged a game with Alabama in the Sugar Bowl that was played up as a battle for the National Championship. In the interim between accevting the bowl bid and the game itself, the Irish mauled Miami 44-0 to expel any doubts that there any other pretenders to-the crown at the other bowls. 
A similar situation exists for this Miami trip. The Irish need to be convincing if they are to make similar statements about the Cotton Bowl matchup. 
But, there are many obstacles to overcome. Lou Saban is still fresh from the pro football world of "on any given day one team can beat another.'' The Hurricanes are youn and looking to start the 1978 season on Saturday night. Notre Dame has had its problems on southern excursions of late and thet.;! are many distractions in the nation's "sun and fun capital'·. , 
This Notre Dame squad has fought back from adversity however. An eight-game winning streak and the enthusiasm of the entire squad even in games where the outcome is in doubt for only the first few minutes indicates the character of the team. The individual accolades are starting to pour in for some, but this is a team that will be playing for itself and its school this Saturday night. They've been dedicated for the last two months and it's a habit even distraction1; can't break. 
first place finish from last season at 
the Indiana State tourney, bowing 
out for a second place finish in the 
167 pound class. It was the same 
finish for the native of Chicago as 
the Michigan State tourney earlier 
this year. _ 

Pat McKillen suffered an injured 
neck in his second match against 
Dave Welch of Indiana State and 
had to pull out for the remainder of 
the tournament. These two grap­
plers have a tough rivalry going, 
with W etch holding a slim 2-3 
advantage between the two. 
Last year, in the first match, 
McKillen was decisioned by Welch 
4-3 in overtime after finishing tied 
11-11. McKillen then came back to 
decision the Indiana State grappler 
3-2. 

"The Indiana State tournament 
was a tough one and we were 
rather low keyed going into it. Our 
Our first big test comes tomorrow 
at Rochester," noted Sepeta. 
The Irish are on the road today · heading towards upstate New York 
for the Rochester Institute · Invita­
tional. The Blue and Gold grap­
plers will face teams such as Ohio 
State, Kent State (last year's 
Mid-American Conference 
champs), and Brockport State (last 
season's Division III national 
champs). 

"I have been very pleased with 
the squad's performance so far, as 
we have been very competitive at 
both our tournaments. Rochester 
will be a big one however and we 
will be without two of our star­
ters," continued Coach Sepeta. 
Rob Dreger (177) and Pat Landfried 
(158) will not make the trip. In addition, the Irish will be without a heavyweight competitor (Bob Go­lie's normal spot). ''Even though we will be without some wrestlers, I still hope to do well. There are 16 teams entered and I look for us to finish in the top five,'' noted the Irish coach. 
Dave DiSabato (126), George Gedney (118), Pat McKillen (150), and Mike Padden (167) are four likely candidates for a first place finish at tomorrow's tournament, which will finish on Saturday. 
PIN POINTS... Notre Dame's first home meet is slated for Dec. 10 against Valparaiso and Evans­ville. St. Joseph's, the other team originally scheduled for that date, has pulled out ... ''I hope to do very well against those two teams," says Coach Sepeta ... Senior co-cap­tain Pat McKillen is just one victory away from tying the all-time ND :areer win record of 58, held by Dave Boyer (1972-76)...The Irish will host the National Catholic Invitational Tournament Feb. 5. 




