~-----------------------------------------------------------~ 

an independent .student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's Saturday, August 27, 1977 Vol. XII, No. 1 
Today's features 
Fr. Burtchaell resigns page 4 ND-SMC student government page 6 Orientation schedules pages 2, 16 · News preview pages 10, 11 


To the Freshmen pages 8,9 

• 




ecome 
res 
men! 
• 


----~ -~----------­
• 
the observer Saturday, A~gust 27, 19n 
ND Freshman Orientation Schedule 
Saturday, August 27 

2-4 p.m. exal'ninations for course c-edit in math, english, french, german, latin and spanish. students eligiLie to take these examinations will be notified. room 127 nieuwland science hall. 
1-4 p.m. campus 'tours departing every hour on the hour from the circle at the south entrance to campus. 5:30-6:30 p.m. dinner. students only. south dining hall. 
7:30p.m. official welcome for freshmen and their parents in the athletic and convocation center (ace] 
9 p.m. meeting, freshmen meet with hall rectors and staff. 
9 p.m. orientation, parent orientation, ace. 

Sunday, August 28 
7-8:15 a.m. breakfast, students only, south dining hall. 
9 a.m. session, general guidance session for freshmen. freshmen will be notified of their advisors an'd their general guidance session meeting places by cards distributed in the residence halls on saturday. 
11 a.m. welcome mass, mass for freshmen and parents in the ace. 
12-1 p.m. picnic, picnic lunch -a very informal luncheon where members of the administration will meet with freshmen and their parents. ace. 
1-1:45 p.m. introductions, student activities-performances by notre dame marching band and glee club, introduction to athletic program and presentation by student body president. ace. 
2 p.m. rotc, presentation of rotc information for freshmen and their parents. ace. 
2:30p.m. meeting, freshmen contemplating the foreign study program. parents invited. innsbruck, mexico city, tokyo, taipei, rome will be discussed in the hayes-healy center. angers will be discussed in room 204, O'shaughnessy hall. 
3 p.m. mixers, informal mixer for mexican-american students and their parents, faculty and administrators in the memorial library lounge. 3 p.m. informal orientation/reception for parents of black students in the founder's room of the morris inn. 3:30-5 p.m. informal mixers in the halls. students and parents invited. 
2-4 p.m. meetings, private meetings of freshmen with special problems and their advisors rn the freshman year of studies building. if such a meeting is necessary, call 283-7421 for an appointment. 
5-6:30 p.m. dinner,north and south dining hitll. students only. 
7 p.m. orientation, special orientation for freshmen women in t~e library auditorium. 
9 p.m. dance, sponsored by student government in the ace concourse. 
Monday, August 29 

7-8:15 p.m.  br1akfast, north or south dining hall,  as assigned.  
8:30a.m.  - registration,  according  to  the  alphabetical  schedules  in  stepan  center.  
3:30p.m.  alphabetical campus.  schedules will  be  posted  in  residence  halls  and  throughout  
11:15 a.m.  - lunch, students only. north or south dining hall.  
1 p.m.  
5-6:30 p.m.  dinner.  students only. north or south dining hall.  
Tuesday, August 30  
8 a.m.  classes start.  

d p.m. concert, open air concert sponsored by the student union social commission. south QJJad. .. 
.. ~~ : 
,· ~. ~,~--· .... 
~•-: ~ :. • . .t-_' .;.~· •. 

Construction continues on the addition to the Engineering Building 

Put your artistic talents to work for you doing Ad layout for the Observer call steve at 7 471 
.. 
Charlie Offers A Total Package~ Of Pharmacy Services 
OUT OF STATE PRESCRIP­TIONS CAN BE EASILY FILL­ED, USUALLY WITH ONLY A PHONE CALL. S"fUDENT CHECKS CASH ED WITH ND­SMC 1.0. CARDS. OPEN 9-6:30 DAILY AND LESS THAN A MILE SOUTH OF CAMPUS. 



Welcome Freshmen!!! 
See us for quality jewelry 
HOURS: MON· 10:308m -7:00pm 
TUES -SAT 9:30am -5:15pm 
V.AN HORNE&Co. 
llJS W. WASHINGTON AVE .
@ Dilllnonds"11111/dus"'-}t1Uel11J 

Member American SOUTH BEND, INDIANA 46601 
Gem Society.· 



ONE OF THE 
WORLD'S GREATEST! CARPET REMNANT SALE 

SALE HOURS: 
SUNDAY 1 'TIL 6 PM 

• 
• •• of alll st quality LEES and CABIN CRAFTS carpeting 
*APANDEMONIUM Of VALUE! 
*AREVELRY OF SAVING! 
Colossal lees! ntanlc Cabin Crafts! The w....­hou..of these giants were glutted with remnants, loaded with rol-et'Mis, plec.. accumulated from their greatest HCISOI'I ever, In such profusion • to 
throttle their operations near-completely. They had to MH and ... quickly -and that's when 11CAIPET-WAY" stepped ln. With a •amattc, hard cash wipe-out offer, we bought every single piece we could at bare rock-bottom -and now we pass 
the savings on to youl 
PERFECT fOR • • • 
BEDROOMS 
BATHROOMS 
KITCHENS 
BASEMENTS 
BUY NOW fOR••• FLOORS WALLS STEPS DECKS 

IotTy No lay-a-way, No hold--.. No phone or mall orden, AI .ubfect to prior ICIIe, AI pric... h on calh .Mt _..,. IMnll, AI cllmenslons •• mlnlmurnt. 
FREE FRONT DOOR PARKING 
* CHOOSE FROM 1700 PIECES! 
*PLEASE -NO DEALERS 
• EVERY STYLE IMAGINABLE 
Shag, twist, plush, loop, tweed, 
cut/uncut, miltf-levelfigured 
• BRING YOUR ROOM SIZES 
Snap up these values on the spot 
• LEES -CABIN CRAFTS QUALITY 
Our Country's finest, most famous mills 
DELIVERY AVAILABLE 
INST:L~;';~~ ~~~f~ABLE 
IDEAL fOR ••• TRAILERS COnAGES CLOSETS STATION WAGONS 
OTHE~ REMNANT GROUPS NOT LISTm 
• EVERY COLOR IMAGINABLE 
o.w ...~ Cwmel J-..11 Orten... Plnlr Nv9eet Aprlcet Sovteme Plnecl,....,. Saddle AYocado Alnlnftte 0.......
.,..,.,
Lime ...... AmMpWiow flaml,..e 
J.... A~:a-. I aha-.._.... ,_.... 
Calot c.n•• ,...... ••.,MJ lllftleG'"" 
Oflve Copper S.wllle Hyoclnth Clau.tyJ.4. 
Gr-.....,... Jonquil Heliotrope freate4Cec..
..... 'urple H-y Cortea •eel 'reiCa ....,_
.,.,..
Carmel Aatec Ivy Gr"" Greclon Olve Iran•• 
Autumft M..-nta Manderlr1 MontewoSan4 
Whlto ..... Sactdlo Ocean Gr._ Mufflfth... 
Aauro Marine •.....,. TurquolM WhltoGnlpe 
AR,EA'S LARGEST CARPET SPECIALTY SToRE 
=:: FINANCiNG 
• AVAILABLE 
PERFECT fOR . . 
DORMITORIES 
APARTMENTS STUDY R00M ANY ROOMS 

50760 U. 5._ 31 North South Bend, Indiana ... next door to Sandock's Furniture 
Saturday, August 27, 19n
the observer 



James Burtchaell resigns as University provost 
I Rev. James T. Burtchaell, was promoted t" full professor in to academic excellence." engaged both in the current im­graduated from Notre Dame in 
C.S.C provost of the University of 1975. In !.ts nine years as an ..He has attracted many talented provement of faculty salaries and in 1956 and was ordained in 1960. Notre Dame for seven years, administrator, he continued to scholars to Notre Dame," Res­the amassing of permanent endow­Between 1956 and the reception of announced his resignation to return teach and to write, principally in burgh continued, ..and has inau­ment to assure continuing progress his Cambridge doctorate, he did to teaching in the Department of the areas of biblical ethics and gurated new academic programs in faculty compensation," he said. graduate study and research in Theology. sacramental theology. He also and procedures to better the Uni­A native of Portland, Oregon, biblical theology at six institutions 
The resignation, announced lived in a student residence hall, versity's educational enterprise. In Burtchaell entered the Congrega­in this country, Europe and the Thursday, Aug. 25, will be sub-,where he served eight years as particular, he has been actively tion of Holy Cross in 1952, was Middle East. mitted to Notre Dame's Board of assistant rector. Trustees on October 21 , but He has served on virtually every Burtchaell will relinquish adminis-major University committee and his trative duties at the beginning of off-campus professional activities the academic year on Tuesday, included major roles in the Ameri­Aug. 30. The 43-year-old priest can Academy of Religion, the was appointed to the number two council on the Study of Religion, position within the University by the American Council of Learned the trustees when they created the Societies' Advisory Committee on provost's office in 1970. the Study of Graduate Education in 
An acting provost will be named Religion, and the Association of in ~he near future, University American Colleges' Commission on President, Father Theodore M. religion in Higher Education. Hesburgh, said. An advisory Burtchaell has also represented committee for selection of a per-Notre Dame in a variety of matters manent successor, outlined in the of common concern to Indiana Academic Manual and composed of institutions of higher learning. five elected faculty members of the Hesburgh commented on the Academic Council and one of its resignation, "It is difficult to find student members, will be formed at words adequate to thank Father the first meeting of the Council. Burtchaell for his seven years of 
Burtchaell will be returning to a superlative service. He has set a faculty in theology which he joined standard that will be difficult, if not in 1966 after receiving his Ph.D. in impossible, to match. The divinity from Cambridge University provost's office has been character­in England. He chaired the ized by a style that reflected his department from 1968 until his high intelligence, broad vision and appointment as provost in 1970 and constantly coura~eous dedication 
I 

Smokey Be'z 
RECORD STORE AND WHAT-NOT. SHOPPE 


any LP ceramic and plaster things 

thru the end of September 207 N.Michigan St. (next to Morris Civic Aud.) 
0 PEN Mon-Thurs 11 to 7 pm Fri-Sat 11 to 9 pm 
********************************** 
~ * 
* * 
: Voting for ~ 
* * 
* *
E Saint Mary's College E * *
! Athletic Team Name ! * * 
* * 
* * 
: Wednesday August 31 : and special guest 
* * * * * * Bernie Leadon
* * 
* * &
* during lunch & dinner ·in * 
** ** Michael Georgiades Band
: MUST PRESENT I.D. : 
* *
* * 
: CHOICES : Monday A-ygust 29 8:00Pm
* * 
* * 
* * 
* ~ Saints Angels Belles: * 1 Notre Dame ACC 
750
* * ** All Seats Reserved 6~0 550 
j
! results to be announced at the-dining hall '! ! 
* *
! Angela Athletic N:Jcility dedication : 
!* Sa.tJJrday September tJ : * 
on sale now at A.C.C. Box
********************************:* 
~---------------------------------------------r--~~------------

LYtomorrowS professionals choose Hewlett--Packard's first family 
ofadvanced calculators today. 
They're proven performers. In space. On Everest. In the labs of Nobel laureates. Since we built the first, back in 1972, our advanced calculators have been tested by mil~ lions worldwide, and they've passed. 
They have staying power. Today's classroom prob~ lems quickly grow into tomorrow's on~the~job problems. HP calculators are designed and built to handle both. They're investments in a future that happens fast. 
They're straightforward. "Advanced" doesn't mean "complicated:'Itmeans" uncomplicated:' HP calculators are, above all, straightforward. 
They're easy to use. HP calculators not only grow with you; they grow on you. They feel natural, comfortable, because we designed them to work like you think. 
They're efficient. HP calculators take the direct approach. All feature RPN, a time~saving, parenthesis~free logic system. All programmables feature a memory~saving keycode merging capability. 
They're personal. Professionals design their own ways to solve their particular problems, and they expect their calculators to be versatile enough to accommodate them. Ours are. 
There's a variety. To say we offer a full line is an understatement. We offer a choice. That's why we publish a unique "Selection Guide" that spells out the capabilities of each. Your HP dealer has your free copy. 
(800) 648·4711. The number to call for more informa~ tion and your HP dealer's name and address (unless you're in Nevada, in which case you can call323~2704). 


HP-21 Scientific. HP-22 Business Management. $80.00* $125.00* 
Performs all standard math and trig A new kind. of management tool. calculations. the latter in radians or Combines financial, statistical and degrees. Performsrectangular/polarcon· mathematical capabilities. Enables busi· versions. Displays in fixed decimal ness students to forecast faster, more eas· or scientific notation. Our lowest priced ily and with greater certainty. scientific. 
t 616/ ;) 
•suggested retail price. excludm~ appl.cable state and lo<:al taxes­Contmentall1. S .. Alaska and Hawaii. Display• are photographed separately 10 simulate typiCal appcar•nce. 
HP-25 
Scientific Programmable. 
$125.00* 
Solves repetitive problems auto· matically. Enter your formula once; thereafter only variables. Requires no software, no "computer" language. Our lowest priced programmable. We also of· fer an HP-25 "'ith Continuous Memory, the HP·ZSC, for $160.00~ It retains pro­grams and data even when turned "off.' 
HP-27 HP-67 Fully Programmable. Financial/Statistical/Scientific. $450.00* 
$175.00* The most powerful pocket calcula· Contains the most preprogrammed tor we've ever built. ZZ4·step program scientific functions we've ever offered, memory. 26 storage registers. "Smart'' plus comprehensive statistical and finan· card reader records contents of both. cial functions. Lets you forecast, allocate Fully merged keycodes increase typical program memory capacity up to 450 key·
resources, analyze costs-quickly. strokes and beyond. Superior edit· ing capability. • 
HEWLETT'PACKARD 
Dept. 658), 1000 N.E. Circle Blvd., Corvallis. Oregon 97 330 


AVAILABLE AT THE N.D. BOOKSTORE 

the observer Saturday, August 27, 1977 

A look at Notre Dame student government 
by To111 Byrne CampaNews Editor 
-

Unlike many centralized high school student councils, several organizations compose Notre Dame student government, each perform­ing different functions while attem­pting to work together. 
The Student Government organi­zation itself consists of the Student Body President [SBP], Student Body VIce-President [SBVP] and their cabinet. Although its function may vary with the intentions of the officeholders, student govern­ment's general purpose is to re­spond to the needs of Notre Dame 
P;&ii~ .· .,.,... , •.'>.. ·. 
_.'. ';<~-. 
serve specific areas of -student concern. 
Former So-in Hall President Dave Ber.der is currently SBP, while junior Tom Soma serves as SBVP. Joe Gill presides over the cabinet as Student Government Executive Coordinator. Off­campus Commissioner Joe Un­gashick provides a liason between students living off-campus and Student Government. Steve Dane and John Talbot share the duties of Judicial Coordinator handling pro­blems arising from the administra­tion of discipline. Treasurer Pete Tobben oversees the disbursement of student funds. 
·-''), 
I 
Tom Gryp -Student Union Director 

students. The SBP and SBVP run Also serving in the cabinet is on a ticket and are elected each Academic Commissioner Floren­March. Aside from supervising the cean Strigle, who represents the operation of Student Government, student body at meetings of the the SBP appoints the Student Academic Council. Mark Klein Government cabinet, designed to .heads the Student Lobby in the 
**********************************t 

!: Pandora's Books 
* 
*
! 937 South Bend Ave. 
t ph. 233-2342 * 
* 
:We have new & used paperbacks for all of your dasses *Corne in for pipes, papers, art prints, magazines, daily *& Sunday New York Times. 
* 
a CAMPUS 
** w
* ,
*
* .
* 
*
*
* 
*
* 
: P&.UooAA'S
* ~
* 
* 
:: * OPEN DAILY 10:30 -7:00, 
:: SUNDAY 9:00 -7:00 * 
:: We'll accept your checks ! with a student I.D. 

i * i ** 
a 
*
* 
:
* 
! 
!* 
* 
*
* 
*
* 
* 
*
* 
* 
*
* 
~ 
* 
* 
*
* 
: 
! 
*
* 
: 

~********************************­
Indiana legislature to lower the state's drinking age from 21 to 19. Valerie Hardy, commissioner for interracial and social concerns, guides ad({ltional lobbying efforts in areas of social justice, and assists minority students. Patty Dondanville works as Student Go­vernment Alumni Representative, keeping contact with alumni and seeking their support on major projects. Special Projects Coordi­nators Jim Seifert and Wally Saad are in charge of handling any specific problems that might arise during the year and Co-ex Commis-· sioner Harold Jara is responsible for relations between St. Mary's and Notre Dame. Also, Student Government Press Secretary Mary McMormick provides information to the campus media and will edit the Student Government newslet­ter. 
An important part of student government is the Ombudsman which is a troubleshooting organi­zation designed to aid any student seeking information regarding life at Notre Dame. Ombudsman workers can be reached at 7638, for those needing assistance. Robin Lavender is the organization's present director. 
Another major arm of Notre Dame student government is the Student Union, a non-profit organi­zation governed by the Student Union Board of Directors, and supervised by the student Union director, Tom Gryp. The organiza­tion sponsors through its various commissions numerous activities and provides useful services for students such as refrigerator rentals. The Student Union Concert Commission brings major entertainment to campus each yar, while the academic commission provides a variety of lectures. 
·The Ball PresldeatsCouacll (HPC) probably the most repre­sentative student government body, meets each week and consid­ers issues related to hall life. In addition to coordinating hall activities, the council sponsors An Tostal, the annual spring festival. Senior J.P. Russell is entering his second year as chairman of the council. Former Farley Hall Presi­dent Tracy Kee serves as executive coordinator, and John Rooney will organize An Tostal. 
The Studeat Ufe Coandl (SLC) is authorized by the University's Board of Trustees to consider matters affecting student life and to make recommendations to the vice president for Student Affairs. Until the last year, the council was composed of five faculty, five students and five administrators. However, SBP Bender proposed major renovations of the council's membership, intending to narrow the scope of the group to affairs concerning hall life. Although the issue is not yet resolved, some change in the SLC' s composition seems likely. 
Of immCdiate interest to fresh men is the FreahmeD Advisory CoUDdl, which provides a liason between the freshmen in each hall and the Freshmen Year of Studies Office. One member from each hall is appointed by the hall president. 

Tom Soma -SBVP, Dave Bender -SBP 

J.P. Russell -HPC Chairman 
The council reports on conditions Coii1DIIalonen which determines 
affecting freshmen and assists in all fiscal policies and regulates all 
special projects and activities. campus-wide elections. Funds for 
The chief link between the the operation of student govern­various student government organ­ment are obtained through the . izations is provided by the ao.rd of student activities fee . 

Interest, involvement increase in SMC student governm~nt . 
by Jean Powley body's official reprele'ntative to · man Co~ncil and ~o~ks closely wtth 
St. Mary'a Editor college co~mittees and in gene~al, the S~tal Coml!lls~toner: 
is responstble for th~ effective Soctal Commtsstoner ts Jo Ann 
, operation of student government. Baggiano, a S~tlior from Ne~ York. 
St. Mary s has always been, up I Cathy lledges, a junior from She was appotnted to coordinate all until a few years ago, a school IMinnesota, is vice president of social activities, working closely where the student government was academic affairs. She is respon-with Notre Dame. heard from very little and seen . sible for all areas concerning 1 Elections Commissioner is Maria even less. The trend of student ' academic life. She chairs the Mignanelli. She chairs the elec­involvement during the past dec-Student Academic Council and is a I tions committee and oversees all 
campus elections. This will be · Mignanelli' s second year as elec­tions commissioner. She is a senior from Rhode Island. 
Am~ Hartzell, a sop~m.nore from Ohio, ts sports Commtsston~r. In this new position, she wtll be responsible for all sports activities. 
ade has changed all of that, however. 
President of the student body is Mary Rukavina, a senior from Minnesota. She chairs the Board of Governance and the Student As­sembly, is a member of every student board, is the student voting member of several college committees. 
Kathy O'Connell, a junior from Virginia, is vice president of stu­dent affairs. She is responsible for all areas affecting student co-curricular life. She advises the Hall Presidents' Council_ and the Fresh-. 

-~--------~------------------------------------­
Saturday, August 27, 1977 the observer 

Fr. Theodore Hesburgh 

ND officials introduced 


Alumni praise Hesburgh 
University President Father 
Theodore M. Hesburgh has had his 
share of "hate mail" over the 
years. 
Much of it came during the 15 
years he served on the U.S. Commission on Civil Rights, but his views on academic freedom, campus unrest, and amnesty for Vietnam offenders also drew per­
iodic caustic mail. 
But he's reading many more pleasant messages these days. Alumni replying to an annual direct mail solicitation were invited to add a short greeting to Father Hesburgh, who is observing his 25th anniversary as head of the University. 
Here are some of the more interesting notes, penned by alum­ni, young and old: 
"At 2:30 one morning four years ago, your open door policy was tested by me and four companions. You welcomed us in your office with wine, Beethoven and conver­sation. It made a lasting impres­sion." 


''Best wishes from a waiter and busboy in Corby Hall." 
''You certainly have worked hard to lift Notre Dame to prominence. But female students! Still, anyone fired by Nixon can't be all bad. You're fielding .997." 
• • Since you impressed me im­mensely helping me carry my luggage my first day on campus, 1 have followed your humble and 
impressive career ... '' 

"Still remember when you were chaplain for us vets on campus. Still don't agree with many of the 'modem' decisions but know of no one who has tried harder to do an excellent jo~." 
"I admire you most for your response to the campus concern over the bombing of Cambodia in 1970 ... only at Notre Dame were 
the concerned adults of all ages moved to united, constructive crit­icism..." 
"From a homesick freshman whom you once walked back to his room 'after hours' --thank you for 
.---------------------------------------------~----­


.•• this card will let you call long distance from your room faster and at less cost than any other way. 
If you live in a residence hall, making a long distance call can be a hassle. 
You either have to call collect (and that costs extra), or wait in line at a pay phone with a couple of pounds of change in your pocket. 
Well, there's a way around all that. Get your free STUDENT BILLING CARD from Indiana Bell. A Student Billing Card lets you make 
that and all you have done for the University." 
''I'll never forget the day in the back of Sacred Heart Church when you asked me to step into the chapel and serve Mass for you." 
"Your concern and work for the cause of social justice continue to inspire me and many others to remember what it means to be truly Christian.'' ''I saw many changes that I like as a student, but it is only in retrospect that I am able to appreciate fully your ability to draw the line when the fruits of these changes needed the chance to ripen." "From an alumnus who helped remove the gum off your shoe in front of the University inn on a football Saturday·'' 
•'I talked with you at the (Lourdes) Grotto on campus the night before my graduation ... " 
"May you and Queen Elizabeth both celebrate your Golden anni­versaries 1" 
' 

long distance calls from the privacy of your room, and at direct-dial rates. That's a lot easier and more economical than any other way. Besides, there's no waiting in line, and you keep the change. To get your STUDENT BILLING CARD just call237-8182. 


Indiana Bell 
I· 
j 
I 
I 
) 
tj :1 
(Condnaecl from paae 7) j ! degrees from Emory University, ! University of Georgia, and Tulane f University, Gordon joined the facu­lty in 1958 and was appointed vice president in 1971. While the president, provost, and vice presidents, are the admin­istrators of the university, they are not the actual directors of Notre Daine. The 39-member Board of Trustees, headed by .F..dm-..d A. Steplum, a Chicago businessman, holds the responsibility for deter­. mining University polici~. The Board meets twice during the year, once in the spring, and again in the fall. This year marks the tenth anni­versary of the historic transforma­tion of the previously all religious Board of Trustees, to a mixed Board of lay and religious members. The Congregation of the Holy Cross retains effective control of the University through the institution of the University Fellows, a 12 member body of which six are members of the Holy Cross Community. The Fellows hold the technical ownership of the university. The Office for Student Affairs, under the direction of Paczesny, is the department of administration with which the average stuaent \rill have the most contact. Dean of Students, Jamee A. Roemer, is in charge of implementing the student disciplinary system. Roemer, a 1951 graduate of duLac, joined the University administra­tion three years ago as a legal advisor. He was appointed dean of students in June 1975 to replace John Macheca, who had served for two years in that position as Notre Dame's first lay dean of students. Numerous other members of the student affairs staff include: Fr. Robert Grlflln, University chaplain; Fr. William Toohey, director of Campus Ministry; Bro. Joha Bene•h, director of student activities; and Fr. Jolm M.&e.by, director of on and off campus housing. Other key administrators on 
campus are the deans of the .~~ various colleges. The Freshman ~*" Year of Studies is headed by EmJI :. 
T. Hofman, in his seventh year at ~ that post. Hofman not only · administers Freshman Year, but also teaches freshman chemistry to over 1500 students. Assistant dean of Freshman Year is PeterGnacle. 

Finally, •• JoJ. Miriam JcJae., assistant provost, replaced Dr. William Burke who retired from that position a year ago. Jones joined the staff of the University provost in 1972 to supervise the changeover to coeducation on the undergraduate level. She also serves as an assistant professcr rA microbiology. 


f' *The Observer 
an indl'pendent student newspaper serving notrl' daml' and st. marv's 
The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of either ino;:itLn.ion. The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters are the views of their authors. Column space is available 
to all members of the community, and encouraged to promote the free expression 
opinions on campus.  
Business Manager Advertising Manager Production Manager  Sue Quigley Steve Bonomo Karen Chiames  

letters are of varymg 
BoxQ 
-

EDITORIAL BOARD 
Marti Hogan Editor-in-Chief Martha Fanning Managing Editor Bob Brink Asst. Managing Ed. Kathy Mills Executive Editor Maureen Flynn Editorial Editor Barb Breitenstein Exec News Editor Tom Byrne Campus Editor Jean Powley St. Mary's Editor Katie Kerwin News Editor Paul Stevenson Sports Editor Pat Cole Special Projects Ed. David O'Keefe Features Editor 
Notre Dame 

Copy Editor Barb Langhenry Ind. 4&55& Photo Editor Paul Clevenger 
Saturday, August 27, 1977 


I'm writing this a little drunk this year, contemplating the writ­Thursday night, rather Friday ing of what you are presently morning at 3:45. The last remnants reading. It had been on my mind of the alcohol that I quaffed down for quite some time. at Nickles and at The Ubrary are I came to the· conclusion that fading away and it only seemed there is absolutely no way that you fitting to sign off the year the same can condense an "experience" way that I started it some 7 scant into a short essay so I resolved not months ago --a little wasted on a to try. It was enough that I was weekday. thinking about everything,. the first 
On my way out of The Ubrary I night at the bars, the beer runs to saw a girl I like very much, but Michigan, the panty raid and the don't really know that well, with tower girls of LeMans, that whole some other guy. We had gone out first ridiculous 6 weeks, Mother the previous week and had really Nature dumping all the white stuff had a good time. on us, the concerts, the Glee Club, 
I don't know why seeing her with the many good buddies I have met him bothered me like it did, and the girls that I have gone out because that kind of happening with, the dedicated people I know hadn't phased me all year. This who work for the good of our class. was college and I thought I had There are many intangible rea­learned to take things as they sons why I love this place and I carne. It's hard to explain that kind could never explain them even if I of a feeling because it's a very was pressed to do so. Coming here personal thing. But people are was a new start and the beginning very hard to pin down to anything of my love affair with Notre Dame. around here and I've found that the No matter. what the prevailing word "committment" is almost social situation is or how hard nonexistent. When I first came classes are, one fact remains -­here I was happy about that fact Notre Dame, like life in general, is because from my point of view only what you make it. these would be the last 4 years that yet 1 was objective enough to see I could raise hell before getting things that I didn't like. I came serious about life. here to re-evaluate myself and get 
Yet there is something about away from all the petty bullshit of turning 20 next October that makes High School. On that score I was me stop and think about the wrong. People here are on the wisdom of "running around." I've whole the most intelligent and been doing that ever since I was interesting that I have ever met, 14 down the shore in New Jersey. but they are still people. Old Having the security of a "-teen" at myths die hard, and I have finally the end of your age makes things realized that there is no Utopia easy. There is something about 20 where everyone is satisfied with that spells responsibility, and with what they are, and where people my changing attitudes towards no longer hurt others to solidify things I believe that I am going to their own egos. I've seen quite a welcome adulthood, in the real few of my friends destroyed by sense of the word. people who don't care about any-
Tonight at the bar it finally thing or anybody except them­

dawned on me that maybe ifit went selves. unchecked I could go on living my It also amazed me that some life as a chronic adolescent. That is people could like other people 
not a very re-assuring prospect. because of what they do instead of How do you reconcile the fun with who they are. That bothered me in the responsibili~ without dri~ng high school, too, and I knew all yourself crazy? It s very confusmg, about the jock and cut-throat a~d I think that I will always feel • syndrome before I came here. But thts way --drunk or sober. the big misconception is that this Then I began to think bact over "syndrome" is particular to Notre 
Dame. It isn't, it's just particular to life in general. What bothered me the most was when I felt myself getting quite "phoney" because I wanted to fit in so badly. I tried too hard and got on some people's nerves, and eventually mine, but then I realized it, and grew because of it, and consequently am a better person. You start to realize that what your parents have been saying to you about "just being yourself'' just might have some merit to it. It's a very fundamental lesson. 
So this year has been a learning experie~ce. No one said that it would be easy and it hasn't been. One thing that NotTe Dame has allowed me to do is to get back on the road to becoming the best possible person that I can be. It was a struggle, and it cost a lot, but it was worth it. I guess the time eventually comes when you have to throw off the shackles of group security and the booze and the illusions that we all carry around to 
become  individuals,  and  that  in  
itself  is  no  small  gift.  Being  
yourself is no easy task.  

It's not easy to work and not have to make excuses for it; party and not feel like_ you're copping out on anything; make friends if you trust enough to want to; or even to fall in love despite the good-natured warnings of your friends that you're a fool for "wasting other opportunities.'' A very close friend of mine once said: "If at times we do not get lost there is a chance we may not find the right road." This year I have often felt confused and lost but the end result has been the kind of self-awareness that I have always needed. So it's hard to say how I feel about things besides saying confused and hopeful at the same time. The good and the bad and the joyful and the sad all occupy equal places in my mind. I'm satisfied in what I am becom­ing, and I owe that much at least to this University and the people who give it its heartbeat. You just wish that you could let other people see what and who you reaiJy are. Well, maybe someday. 
seriously, folks~~~~~ 
No Peace in the Summer 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiij art buchWaI d 
MARTHA'S VINEYARD, MASS. -­If President Carter really wants to get the housing business on its feet I think he should talk to me. No matter where I seem to go on vacation, they start building a house on the next lot. 
I don't know where they get the information, but I suspect the contractors have a nationwide com­puter that tells them where I'm going to rent a house for the summer. As soon as the word is out, they buy the lot next to the house and start constructing a home, a garage--or if that fails, a new sewer. 
This year was no different. I rented a house in the woods. There wasn't another human being within three miles, when I signed the lease. The next morning two bulldozers arrived and starting smashing down all the trees. Three men were studying blueprints. 
"How did you find me?" I asked. 
"It wasn'teasy," one of the men said. "We were told you rented the Fainsod House and we started building across the street. We had the home half finished when we realized we made a mistake. So we dropped everything and came out here to build this house first. " 
"Why me?" I asked desperately, "I only get a month off. Do you have to build a house in August?" 
"It's nothing personal," one of the other men said. "We always build houses when people are on vacation. It's the best time of year to hammer.'' 
"But nobody can get any sleep." 
"Look, Mister. Everyone dreams of having his little vacation home by a rippling brook or next to a blue lagoon or on the side of a mountain. But somebody has to build it. When it's built another person comes along and says, 'I'd like one just like that.' So he buys the next lot and starts building his dream house. The gqy in the first house goes bonkers while the house next to him is being built. It's happening all over the country. The hills are alive with the sounds of wood saws, electric drills and 
dump trucks full of bricks. Do you 
think you're special?" 
"But I rent," I protested. "I should get special consideration." 
All three men laughed and one said, "That's why we're here. You renters think you can get a free ride in the summertime and have a quiet vacation because you don't own a house. Well, you're living in a dream world. We'd rather start a house next to a renter than an owner any day. An owner will put up with a certain amount of hammering and sawing because he'll be there forever. But a renter has only three weeks or a month and we can really ruin his time." 
"I've never done anything to you," I protested. "Why do you want to build a house next to me at this time? Can't you wait until September?'' 
"It's no fun in September," one of them replied. ••The only enjoyment workmen get in the construction business is waking up everyone on vacation in the morn­ings. My men would just sit on their duffs if they didn't have the incentive of keeping the guy next door from enjoying the few weeks he has off. 
''As soon as they see someone in a hammock taking a snooze or sitting on his porch ertjoying a beer, they go ape with their hammers. When they know they aren't disturbing anyone, all they do is sit around and talk about the Red Sox." 
''Then what you're saying is that no matter where I rent a house you'll follow me?" 
"Those are our orders," one of the men said. ''When a man goes on vacation we have to start building a house next to him. You'll have to excuse us now. We're bringing in the chain saws to cut up the trees." 
"How many trees are you going to cut up?" "How long are you staying?" 
DOONESBURY by Garry Trudeau 

-----------------------------------~-~-­
Saturday, Auiust 27, 1977 
the observer 
9 



Seek New Visions 

iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii__. dave bender 
Many years ago, a man by the completion, the dome would be 

name of Fr. Edward Sorin received sheathed with gold and a statue of 
word from a small school in Indiana Our Lady placed atop so that' 'men 
that he had founded years earlier. might know why we have succeed­
The message was not a very ed here." 
pleasant one. It seemed that the All of you had very successful 
University of Notre Dame du Lac, high school careers or you would 
which had long been Sorin's dream not be here. More than likely, you 
and had consumed the bulk of his were considered leaders, athletes, 
energies to date, had burned to the and scholars of great stature the 
ground, with only the church on last four years. Now you come 
campus left standing. here, to Notre Dame, and begin all 
Father Sorin rushed back to over, start at the bottom where no 

South Bend, and, after viewing the one really knows who you are or 
scattered ruins of what for him had what you have done. It seems to 
been a dream come true, called his me that you have two choices of 
religious community and what stu­how you can spend this first year at 
dents were there for a special Notre Dame: You can rest on your 
meeting in the church. The laurels of the past and get only 
students and his fellow religious involved in the social and academic 
were worried about Sorin. He was life here, or you can become 
aging and they felt that this terrible involved -in your hall, with 
blow this late in his life might kill community services, with student 

Relax--No Big Deal 
him. In addition, who knows what government, etc. 
words of indignation this fiery In other words you can accept the 
Frenchman had for all of them for challence that Father Sorin accept­
being so careless as to destroy his ed and reach out and expand upon 
dream? ~~~~~~~~~~~-bill t6ohey
your old dreams and seek new 

Father Sorin surprised all of visions, become a leader here at "Relax. No big deal." These All of these deaths will cost us the experience of the living God; them, however. He stood quietly at ND in your freshman year. Sure, were the words that Miss Mellon our unquestioned assumptions and and at this point in your life, you the steps of the altar and told them, all of us are here primarily to get had written across the blackboard, easy judgments, our familiar ways (quite understandably) have a long"If all were gone, I would not give an education. -But an education as Jarrett and the other students and protective barriers. It will cost way to go in discovering this God, up." Then, in a clear voice, encompasses more than studying came into the room for their final complete surrender, but it is the experiencing His loving presence,
exemplifying a true and honest during the week and partying on exam. And Jarrett knew that Miss only way to life. And that's the saying y:gs to it and to Him. I wish faith, Sorin told his flock that the the weekends. To be a leader here, Mellon did that because she really point of it all. Life is the point of it you the adventure of all of this fire was a sign from God. ''God is you must be willing to open was a very nice person; she all --the existence of this place and these next four years. 
telling me that my dream was too yourself up to those around you -in understood students; didn't want your coming here! That's what He And so, to you first-year Notre small, too limited. Obviously Our your section, in your hall, across them to get suffocated by the promises: "I have come that you Dame students: Thanks for com­Lord wishes us to build a much this campus, and in the South Bend pressure of a test. (This scene might have life, and have it to the ing; for deciding to continue your 
larger University, dedicated to His Community. During the next few appears in Ordinary People, Judith full." journey here. Together we can be Mother. This fire is telling us to weeks the Student Government Guest's marvelous novel of last It's because of that promise that truly:. excited at the possibilities reach out and expand our vision, will be challenging you by offering year.) we don't promise you we will try to that lie'before us: the friendships our dream." you opportunities to reach out in a Those words of Miss Mellon -­preserve your faith while you're and contacts that are meant to lead The story ends with Sorin an­variety of ways to make other "Relax. No big deal" --are not a here. You see, that would be to us along on our journey toward 
nouncing that construction of a new people's lives better. We urge you bad admonition for incoming Notre promise you far too little. Faith is a discovering and experiencing the administration building would be­to accept our challenge and become Dame freshmen. You owe it to growing and deepening response to full life that the Father of us all gin immediately and that upon its leaders. yourself to avoid getting super promises. 
uptight over all the new routines, 
schedules, expectations that you 
will encounter. More important to 
remain open, interested in the vast 
discoveries (especially of new 
friends) that await you. 
I say that because I believe
No Limit to Growth Out of the Closet 
you've come off the road (from Syracuse, Pittsburgh, Miami, Chi­cago, St. Paul, Dallas--wherever) 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii j•p. r us s e II and found yourself not at the end of -iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii maureen flynn
a journey, but in the company of 
Or maybe you've just discoveredAs chairman of the Notre Dame needed. Your hall president and many others who will be joining Sadie O'Grady, Witless Beauty that there are parts of yourHall Presidents' Council (HPC) I officers are there to serve you, too. you for the continuation of move­of Podunk Comers High, gradu­
welcome you to the campus of One thlng about this place which ment toward the fullness of life. ated from Notre Dame among the character you don't like--parts you Notre Dame. Many of you are It's good you begin your journey have it .in you to change. Maybe
impresses me is the readiness with top ten engineering students. probably wondering what the HPC which people are willing to help: here at harvest time. This can help you . did .some growing in high
Horace Pinkley, president of school, . but didn't have a veryis. Simply put, it's a council of the administrators, faculty, janitors, focus attention on the fact that we Hilldale High's Abstract Thinkers' receptive environment for the23 presidents of the residence maids, and friends all included. deal with death and life during Society three years running, sur­
halls, along with a few officers in Contrary to popular belief and these four years together. We call prised the home-town folks by "new yoo.,. Well, people, this charge of keeping it going smooth­myth, alcohol is a part of Notre ourselves by the name of one who rejecting the Phllosphy Club in campus didn't know the old you ly. We deal with matters among Dame. When used in moderation, is the Lord of life, and who calls us favor of the Rowing Team. and doesn't care who that person the different residence halls and it can be very healthy. It can be an to death; who promises life in the Bruno "the tank" Bovine didn't was. All we want is the relll you, offer advice and student opinion important aspect of meeting new sign of the cross. make the Irish football squad, but the one who's trying to be more whenever appropriate. friends and of your moments of The challenge before you is not introspective or extroverted; the
he was elected president of his hall 
Chances are you've already met growth here. Do remember, between life and death, but be­one who wants to be more con­
and director of the ND Hunger 
or soon will meet your own hall drinking will not solve any of your tween the death that only destroys Coalition. cerned with social problems ~ president during this orientation problems. Most likely it will only and the death that gives way to life. Come oat social life; the one who wants 'to
All dght, Fre8hmud 
weekend. Feel free to chit-chat make them worse. Feel free to use This is the strange paradox of life. work a little harder or play a little
of the dotet and let aa eee who yoa
with him or her about anything you the Quickie shuttle and go to a bar For example, birth itself is a death: reaDy uerrr more. want, or to bring up suggestions as in Michigan on weekends to have a a death to life within the womb. Were vou labelled in high school: You don't have to do a the year rolls on. good time. Toasting a friend with a And it is followed by a constant the shrinking violet? the dumb Jekyll-and-Hyde act, but if you 
The HPC works in cooperation bubbly beverage on a football series of further death-in-order-to­the bookworm? the clown? want to start fresh in a place where
jock?
with the other student organiza­weekend is always fun. However, know-fuller-life experiences. To go teacher's pet? sex object? Are you nobody knows you or has any tions, such as Student Government do question yourself if you find you off to school, for instance, is to die pre-conceived notions, no need to
tired of living up--or down--to your 
and Student Union. Both are in need to drink or your behavior is to the security one has known at go to Australia or Fiji: this is it.
home-town image? 
capable hands this year, so it looks less than responsible because home; and the adolescent suffers Well, this is your chance to leave And don't get discouraged if you like a lot of good things will be you're drinking too much. the many deaths of decision­all that behind, to let all the fall flat on your face a couple of accomplished. In short time I think making, rejection and loneliness, times. never said it would be
a you'll growing you did those four years I 
A major activity the HPC spon­realize Notre Dame is a special all so much a part of growth toward easy. Just remember that there are
really show for the first timer 
sors, which you might have already place. It's a place that is many maturity. 6000-plus people left to practice on,
Some of you will have your
heard about or soon will, is the Even more so is all this true when and we're all prepared for
things to many different people. images torn from you: you'll find 
we speak of the richer life of the anythingll
traditional spring festival of An Most people come to cherish their yourselves lost in a jungle of other 
Tostal. Events like mud volleyball, time at Notre Dame and do realize spirit, to which God calls us. all-state athletes, straight-A stu­Maybe --like most of us --you 
the Irish Wake, chariot races and it's a unique place. Much of it I Faith's call, for example, necessi­haven't found the real you yet.
dents and super-poohbahs (ND
bookstore basketball capture U.e think has to do with the fact people tates we put to death our longing Well, this is your chance to get on
jargon for that abstract entity,
for certainty and our fear of risk. the right track--and if you find
attention of the entire campus care so much about one another "student leader"). This is your
during the 5-day affair. It's one here. Our pledge of fidelity to God is the chance to develop other sides of you're going in the wrong diree­thing to surely look forward to. While you're here, do get involv­beginning of a kind of dying --to your character, freed from the tion, don't be afraid to hop another A point to keep in mind as you ed outside the classroom. Maybe whatever stands between ourselves demands of peer expectations. train. 
and faithfulness to our promise.
come to know and grow with Notre someday you might even be a hall Others of you bring "reputa­
And death (to safetY,, comfort,
Dame is that, despite all the great president or other student repre­tions" with you that you • d just as (Note to Parents: A sympathetic
convenience) inevitably follows
things about it, there will be some sentative. While doing so, be very soon leave at home. In fact. you pair of parents are invaluable to 
from our efforts to go outside
problems: problems with room­conscious that grades are impor­may have tried to dump them years any freshman--or any student, for mates, grades, girl or boy friends, tant, because they're the standard ourselves to meet the needs of ago, but couldn't get it through that matter--going through this lost laundry and even occasional of our academic achievement. But others. In addition, we become your classmates' skulls that the particular phase of life. Just 
convineed that, in order to struggle 
loneliness. Don't hesitate to talk to also realize there is no grade or clown wanted to be serious for a . prepare yourselves for new and 
for a new world of justice and
somebody. A roommate is the measure of the growth one can while, that the great lover wu mosdy-wonderful tbinp: "Okay, 
peace, we will need to die to old
most common round-the-dock ad­experience as a person whUe at lootina for a stable relationsbip, or so Harvey didn't act a tinale A this
values, prejudices, attitudes, and
visor. Your ball staff Of rector aDcl Notre Dame, nor is there a limit. that the hermit wu dyiq to mate semester, but loot bow bappy be ia 
lifestyle.
RA's is always there to help wbea Good luck in the next four yean. to be w~ oa the DeW8p&pfll') '')
.. tbe_.party ~ ne.zt ,.-ee~. 1 • ' .. "' . . . ' ' . 




10 the observer Saturday, August 27, 1977 



Summer news digest: 

i( ~; ' 
·~ 
I 
.,'t 
i 
ii 
I
,, 
'· 
Hesburgh debates Hunter suspension 
AI Hunter, and five other stu­
dents were accused of violating 
univ~rsity rules pertaining to sex­
ual behavior and visiting hours in 
female dormatories last spring. AU 
six were found innocent by a 
six-member judicial board. 

James Roemer, dean of stu­
dents, however, appealed the case to the University Appeals Board which reversed the first decision and recommended that Hunter be suspended for the fall semester. Hunter then appealed to President Theodore Hesburgh who declined to overturn _~e Appeal Hoar<l 
recommendation. 

Following this decision, Hunter decided to sue the university seeking the opportunity to com­plete his education and play a final , season of football. 
Hunter announced his accep­tance of the fall suspension August 15, an hour before a hearing on injunctive relief was to begin in St. . Joseph County Circuit Court. 
He is presently in Seattle trying out for a position as a :seattle Seahawt. Ifhe makes the team, he 

. plans to return to Notre Dame in January. 
Construction projects 
Work on a nurnbe tion projects on ~ campus was compte mer and several rnor still underway, inclu4 tion to the Cushing neering Building. 
Relocation of the J improved traffic patti: this point were co11 beginning of August 
Carroll Hall also 1 novations this summ tion for its use as an 1 residence hall. Gracl will be transferred 1 Hall to make room fm 75 students in Carrol 
Remaining constnl include an addition t nel Office in Brow1154 vations in St. Edwat( Halls, as well as Nie• Hall, and continuing of facilities for the h' 
Introducing a new Stereo System Specially Desig 
harman/kardon 
C)O(!) RTR 


We at The Sound Room have found that many of you who are r shopping for a new stereo system J with a modest budget want a system ( that will sound good in an average-t sized room. With this in mind, we c" made several evaluations of various ( component systems in a listening room the size of an apartment I room. As a result, we now have ·1 matched quality brand-name com-t ponents together for a stereo system E that will play your favorite music r effortlessly in all but the largest of r listening rooms. r 
r Harman Kardon 330C is the Key t The biggest reason this system s sounds so good is the newly engi-a neered Harman Kardon 330C AM/FM t stereo receiver. Harman Kardon en-t gineers have been able, with new e testing methods, to work towards t the elimination of previously un-s classified but audible form~ of dis-c tortion in the design of the amplifier s section of the new 330C. The result r1 of this new technology is a crisp and far more detailed sound than pos-E sible with more conventional de-fl signs. The FM section of the 330C 1 uses a new high quality, five section n tuning capacitor, combined with ~ innovative new designs in the RF and 0 
' ......., • .,_ 

~~, , , ><.C<,\ 
~t..;~,#~'l ~ 
£·,~·-:.!' 


~tu,.Uy, Auaust 27, 1977 the observer 11 


I. More to come later 

More cops at bars 
Jlled for the Average-sized Room 
1>er of construe-Notre Dame's leted this sum­ore projects are luding the addi­g Hall of Engi­
: East Gate and tterns for cars at omplete in the st. 
underwent re­nter in prepara­
• undergraduate aduate students l to St. Joseph ~or an additional ·oil Hall. ruction projects L to the Person­ISOn Hall, reno­LI'd's and Walsh iewland Science 1g improvement handicapped. 
Nork 
Campaign for Notre Dame 
Three months into its five-year, duals, foundations, corporations $130 million development cam-and estates. paign, Notre Dame has slightly President Theodore Hesburgh more than one-half its goal. Gifts earlier said that S92 million of the and commitments total overall goal is earmarked for $66,250,080, representing 51 per-increasing the University's S108 cent of the goal. million endowment in order to 
The University announced The undergird future academic quality. Campaign for Notre Dame Apri11S Notre Dame's drive is the largest with $57.8 million already pledged. in its 135-year history and the 12th A total of 21,150 donations have largest now underway in American th f b . ed fro . di . hi h d ti'
us ar een·rece1v m m Vl-g er e uca on. 
...-------~lllllllli.-----~-----::=------, 

Shuttle bus Toward Vatican Ill 
The shuttle bus which runs Internationally known theolo­between the St. Mary's and Notre gians gathered on the Notre Dame Dame campuses will run experi-campus last spring to discuss mentally for the first 90 days of the further possibilities of Vatican D. semester. Because of financial The gathering was a meeting of the difficulties, the service, other than board of Concilium, an internation­during the class hours, may ..be al series of theological worts discontinued. intended to further the aims of. 
.---------Vatican D. Notte Dame's Center of Pastoral and Social Ministry, headed by Msgr. John J. Egan, was the campus host for the meeting, which had the theme, "Toward 
..._____ -----r.~.Elo111Uoi--"Vatican m." 
IF tuner stages so the 330C can respond to even weak FM signals. Another industry first is the 330C's optional wood cabinet; unique, · because it tilts up the whole receiver at a 20 degree angle so that all the controls are easy to see and use. 
RTR EXP 9V Speakers Fill the Room The RTR EXP 9V loudspeakers are higher in efficiency than most speak­ers their size, so they will play at normal listening levels in the average room with less amplifier power. That means the amplifier will have more reserve power for loud passages in the music. The RTR 9V has a full sized 8-inch woofer for deep bass and a 2-inch tweeter for smooth treble response. The speakers are housed in-a handsome walnut finish enclosure with a dark brown sculp­tured griil; and on the back of each speaker cabinet, there is a fine tune control that atlows you to adjust the sound of the speaker for different room locations. 
BIC 920 Belt Drive for Smooth Operation The new B•I•C 920 belt drive auto­matic turntable will play your records with less rumble and noise than any other automatic table in its price range. The B•I•C 920 belt drive was engineered to operate with fewer mechanical linkages, resulting in quieter performance, greater reli· ability, and longer tife. The 920 can also be programmed to play up to six records, or you can play one record more than once, all automatically. An attractive base and hinged dust cover are included, and so is a quality Shure cartridge. We assemble the 920 and inspect the Shure cartridge with our Wild Heerbrugg laboratory microscope while you watch. 
You Can Save Money We feel this system fills most people's needs for outstanding per­formance in the average listening room. Therefore, we have made a large commitment on this system so that we can pass savings on to you. At the system price of just $449.00, you are saving over $1 00 off the price of these components, if pur­chased separately. The Sound Room's limited parts and labor security bond protects your invest­ment for 2 full years. Please come in soon to hear this remarkable system. We will be happy to arrange financing and we will gladly accept your bank card or ch~ck. 
Only $449.00 
• 






WTI-E 
KALAMAZOO/ GRAND RAPIDS/ SOUTH BEND 
SOUTH BEND: 52578 US 31 NORTH/277-1515
. 
Staff changes 
Several changes have been made in the Notre Dame administration · and residence hall staffs over the 
summer. 
Carl Magel has been named director of printing and publica­tions at Notre Dame, succeeding Ronald Parent. 
Rev. Michael J. Heppen, C.S.C. replaces Rev. Carl F. Ebey, C.S.C., as director of student accounts. 
Sorin, Grace and Planner also had changes in rectors and assis­tant rectors. 

Students under 21 years of age 
may want to find some place other 
than the local bars to greet old 
friends or: to meet incoming fresh~ 
men for the next ~ew weeks.. . 
~s of last mght.. additional ' 
pohcem~n are. patrolling the bar 
a~ea. ,CIDcludt~g t.he ~ibrary, 
Ntctie s, Corby s, Bndget s) South 
Bend Uniform Division Chief Don-
aid Foy told the Obaerver yester­
day
..·E h th very year we ave e same
problem for a few weeks after 
school starts, and we're not going 
to wait untilJ a problem develops 
this year," Foy said. 
"We're not out to mate ar­
rests," Foy explained, "but we 
want to keep things in line." Foy 
said that the policemen will issue 
''a lot of warnings" the first couple 
weeks of the semester, but added 
that if necessary, arrests will be 
made. 
Underage drinking is not the 
only thing police are concerned 
about though. Anti-noise and 
anti-littering ordinances are in 
effect and will be enforced also. 
As a result of the Hunter law suit, the Notre Dame Board of Trustees has decided to make major changes in the University disciplinary procedures. ~he Board is in the process of drafting and changing the regulations as they are now stated in clu t.c. 
SMC campaign 
St. Mary's President John Dug­gan has announced a campaign to raise money for the construction of a new library. 
. -.. -.,.. ... . .;; 


. St. Mary's administrators busy during the summer 
by Jean Powley Assistant to the President for men; and Mary Ellen Klein, fresh­St. Mary's Editor CoJiege Relations is Brian Regan. man academic counselor. He came to St. Mary's in 1975 to be Mande11 handles all academic 
St. Mary's campus was not responsible for all college publica­concerns of upperclassmen, special completely deserted this summer, tions, public relations and fund­students and transfer students. as students returned home to work, raising activities. She counsels on course and majorwent abroad or lazed around in the choices and fields student aca­
Kathleen Rice joined the college
sunshine. demic complaints. 
administration in 1976 as dean · of 
Administration and ,staff mem­

Doherty will be dean of freshmen student affairs. '. She oversees
bers remained on campus planning 

housing, campus ~inistry, counsel­for the first semester. She over­
for the 1977-78 school year. 

ing, health services, financial aid, sees all academic affairs of fresh­
Of those many administrators, 

~areer development, sports, stu­men. Next semester, after seven
the five senior officers of the 

dent activities afid all other years as dean of freshmen, she will 
college, plus three others of special 

student-related service offered at return to teaching.
interest to students should be 
St. Mary's. 

Klein is new this fall. Asmentioned. 
freshman academic counselor she
A member of St. Mary's college 

The three other administrators of wiJI assist Doherty in overseeing
community since 1959, Hickey was 

special interest to students are Gail freshmen academic concerns. In
a member of the biology depart­

Mandell, assistant to the vice the spring she will have full
ment until 1972. He was then 

president of academic affairs; responsibility for the freshman
appointed vice president of acade­

Rosemary Doherty, dean of fresh-office.
mic affairs. During the 1974-75 school year he served as acting president of St. Mary's. 
President of the college since 1975 is Jack Duggan. Formerly president of Vassar College, 

· Duggan is responsible for the entire college and must report to St. Mary's trustees, the Board of Regents. .. · 
William A. Hickey is vice presi­dent of academic affairs and dean of the faculty. He oversees the

1­
entire academic life at St. Mary's. 

r 
' Academic administrators and facul­ty members all answer to him. Then, in the fall of 1975 he ·assumed his present position of vice president of academic affairs and dean of faculty. The man in charge of St. Mary's Typical frosh tries to figure out where to go. 
fiscal affairs is Jason D. Lindower, controller. He is the college's treasurer, overseeing St. Mary'~ 
day-to-day operation (main­

STUDY ABROAD Sophomore Year 
tenance, security, etc.). Lindower was associated with St. 

ROME, ITALY 
Mary's several years ago as head of 
fiscal affairs. He left the college for 

PREREQUISITE: 
a few years, returning last fall. St. Mary's President jack Duggan
one year of IT A LIAN must be taken during your FRESHMAN YEAR. 
When your parents leave, 
FRESHMEN OF NOTRE DAME invite your PARENTS and COME TO: 

the University takes over 
Hayes Healy Hall Room 222 by Kathy Mills following limits: Visiting hours for the hall. 
Sunday, AUGUST 28, 1977 
Executive Editor guests of the opposite sex are not to Obviously, since Indiana is a 21 begin before 11 a.m. on any day state, you cannot enter a bar unless 
HEAR and meet RETURNEES of 
So, you've made it to college. and are not to extend beyond 2 you are 21 years of age. However, 
And you're living away from home a.m. on Friday and Saturday the legal drinking age in Michigan 
the University of Notre Dame tell of 
and away from your parents' nights, and midnight on other is 18, so you can travel the short watchful eyes. Naturally, you think nights. On home football Satur­distance up Route 31 to Michigan 
their own experience in ROME on 
this program which is sponsored by 
you can do anything you want now, days visitation will begin at 10 where students over 18 but under
Saint Mary's College for students 
right? Guess again ... a.m." 21 can drink·.
of SAINT MARY's COLLEGE and 
· You will soon come into contact If you break these parietal regu­the UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE 
with (if you have not already) the lations and get caught doing it,
DAME. 
rules and regulations of life under chances are you'11 have more done Billing ~umbers the Golden Dome. The two areas to you than have your hands slapped. Parietal violations, being 
"""--------------------------twhich will probably affect you most due soon
are parietals and drinking regula-considered "offenses against the 
tions. 
good order of the hall community,'' If you ordered a student billingAs you have probably noticed by are considered within the hall. 
number from the Indiana Bell now, none of Notre Dame's resi­This means that you can choose to Telephone Co. for long distance 
dence halls are coed. Further, each have your case considered either by phone calls and are wonderinghall has and enforces specific hours your rector, with an appeal to the when you will receive yours, the for parietals, or visitation by mem­Dean of Students, or by your hall numbers will be delivered in the bers of the opposite sex, in student 
WELCOME FRESHMEN 

judiciary board, with an appeal to mail within the next week and a
• TACOS 

dormitory rooms. 
your rector. However, as Do Lac half. To report any problems or if 
• IIIIIJOS 

According to Du Lac, the student notes, "If hall authorities decide or you do not receive your number manual, "Individual halls will set if the Dean of Students sees the when everyone else does, call
• IICIKADAS 

their visitation hours within the need for it, cases of a very serious 237-8182.
• TOSTAIOS 

nature against the good order of 
a hall may be considered as
• TAJIALES 
Furniture

though they were violations of
• TACO 101 

University rules or regulations."
• lflJ TACO 
In this case, a different disciplinary available procedure is taken, which is outlin­
• 
IAIIfQif TACO If you are looking for some. 


ed in Du L.c. 

furniture this semester, many bar­
• 101 TACO TI. ~legal drinking age in Indiana 
SCOnSDALE MALL gains can be found at the Salvation 
• SPAIIISI lOT 100 is 21, and the Univf.:rsity has rules Army store on N. Main, two blocks consistent with the Indiana laws on 
south of the bus terminal down­
291-3142 • • ClffSfiiiOfl 
drinking. You may drink in your town. The Salvation Army offers 
•···••···••······•••·•······ rooms, but you may not have kegs low prices on chairs, sofas, tables 
in your rooms or elsewhere on and other furniture. 
MORE AND MORE : campus. Students may not drink in Goodwill Industries on W. Wes-. 
the common rooms in the halls. 
tern in South Bend also stocks upStudents may not possess or con­on used furniture. Both · the
IIHI•Izl•l , "' rEIETARIMI$ ., .,_ '­
sume alcoholic beverages either on Goodwill and Salvation Army deli­IIATLESS TAeOS, TAIIALIS, IICII&AtAS, lllltrOS, the grounds of the campus or in the ver, so if you are stuck without a nonresidential campus buildings car, for a small fee you can get your 
IIAI TACOS. •ITOSTAHS fll without the permission of the Dean 
furniture delivered safely to yourof Students. 
room. . 

SPECIAL FOR STUDENTS The policy on drinking does vary If all you need is a rug or 
a 
somewhat from one hall to another, bookcase, you can go to Stepan
FREE SOFT DRINK WHEN YOU BUY 3 ITEMS 
so you should consult your rector or Center, where the Student Union is hall staff as to what the rules are in holding their !'""ual sale. · 
• 
Saturday, Auaust 27, 19n the observer 13 
Replaces Wernig 


Laverty to direct student activities at SMC 
by Jean Powley St. Mary's ~tor 
St. Mary's Student Affairs Office has a new face. Mary Laverty, former Regina Hall director, is the college's new director of student 
activities. 
She has, along with Minnie Owens, director of housing and Kathleen Cordes, director of athle­tics and recreation, replaced for­mer assistant dean of student affairs, Stevie Wemig. 
Laverty is responsible for all student activities. She advises student government; coordinates hall, class and all-campus activi­ties; advises the yearbook; coordi­nates faculty-student activities; is the administrative contact person for volunteer services and is a member of three admini­strative committees. 
She plans to focus on bringing more social and academic activities to St. Mary's campus, instead of having students going off-campus or to Notre Dame for all activities. 
"There's nothing wrong at all with our students going to Notre Dame, but they do live here, so their non-academic needs should be met here," Laverty explained. 
In order to plan more . activities on St. Mary's campus, there must be communication and organization between all groups. Therefore, a master calendar has been drawn up to avoid conflicts. 

Laverty· s other ideas include distribution of an interest survey, covering 80 to 100 broad topics, to help the college understand stu­dents' needs and desires; encour­aging halls and classes to sponsor a variety of hall activities, for in­stance, a Sadie Hawkins picnic or gaslight theatre; a faculty, admini­stration and staff directory listing hobbies and interests which thev 
might be interested in sharing with students; concerts in the new athletic facility; YWCA programs on campus; a fund-raising drive for programs affiliated with St. Mary's; an after-college series on practical everyday life (how to buy furniture, insurance etc.); and an alcohol awareness program. 
Volunteer services involvement will be stressed heavily this year. There are 14 volunteer organiza­tions on campus which students may become involved in. Laverty feels such activities are worthwhile from the humanity aspect, as practical career experience and· as a relaxed environment for meeting people. 
•'Students complain that all there is to do socially at St. Mary's is drink and that's simply not true. We're going to make sure that 
everyone knows there's a lot more to do here,'' Laverty explained. 
On the job since June 8, Laverty says that she has already found her experience as a hall director last year to be invaluable. 
"I lived with the students. know better now what they like and don't like," she said. 
Born in Pittsburgh, Pa., Laverty graduated from St. Francis College (Loretto, Pa.) with a bachelor of science degree in elementary edu­cation. She earned a master of science degree in counseling from Shippensburg State College, spe­cializing in student personnel ser­vices. 




as an 
FOR DETAILS, CONTACT: Captain John J. Mac Neil 283-6264 
or visit the Army ROTC Office, building 5 




· ANNIVERSARY SALE! 
The Hi Fi Tree 
in the 100 center Center Mishawaka 255 :3438 
For Sound Advice SAVE 10 to 50o/o
IN STORE FINANCING, MASTER CHARGE, 
During our 3 day Anniversary Sale August 26-27-28 W E"LL SERVICE ALL BRANDS BANK-A.~ERICARD IN STORE SERVICE DEPT.
5 yr warranty on complete systems 

--------------------------------------------------~­
14 the observer Saturday, August 27, 1977 
Michiana area features restaurants, nightlife 
by Kevin M. Walah StaB Reporter 
Chances are good that many students have had second thoughts about attending a school in Indiana on their way to Notre Dame. From almost any direction, travelers are subjected to seemingly endless stretches of cornfields. 
However, the South Bend area isn't as desolate as the miles of cornfields would make one think and the area does have a great deal to offer. 
The first stop for many Domers may be one of the many bars in Michiana. Within a mile of Notre Dame the beer flows freely at several spots. On Notre Dame Ave. is the Library, but the resemblance between that Library and the one on campus ends with the name. The campus library is where one goes before finals, while the one on Notre Dame Ave. is where one goes after. 
Not far from the Library the nightlife continues with three wa­tering spots clustered around the intersection of Corby and Eddy Streets. Nickie's combines good spirits with pool tables and food to crunch the munchies. Nearby, Bridget McGuire's Filling Station, decorated to resemble the roaring twenties, and Corby's provide a little diversity for the student who desires to waste a weekend. 
Freshmen should be warned, however, that Indiana is a "21 state." Strong efforts to change the drinking age to 19 last year failed so those who prefer to drink without the worry of being nabbed by the police, a short drive north on 
U.S. 31 takes one into Michigan where the legal age is 18. 
Shula's usually has good, live entertainment, but also attracts more townies than the South Bend night spots. Kubiak's, often quite 
crowded, is another popular stop a weekend night include the movies 
waste. for 
the Quickie bus, a service and bowling. Every major shopp-Studebaker Mansion, a 40-room
-.,.,.,,-. .... ----­
.......~. f ' . ' 

\-H~L •"".. ~-~ 1,\; 
ll&il 
~~.~ 
'l'__J~;'>$
r p,.,: '" a-~ " 
¢~h' -~~·­
,... 

-~-' 
A logical approach to the trend in smaller cars but did this student ~onsider their room's sizel 
provided by the Student Union 
which stops at a few of the 
Michigan bars on Friday nights. 
Should you ever develop a bad case of the munchies or just feel nauseated after looking at the weekend dinner offering in the dining hall, the area is fun of restaurants ranging from the world's worst greasy spoon to some truly fine dining spots. 
On campus, the Morris Inn 
dining room offers· some . g~ 
selections, although the pnce IS 
among the more expensive. The 
Boar's Head on U.S. 31 North is 
probably South Bend's finest res­
taurant for beef dishes, while also 
providing an excellent salad bar. 
Other dining spots in the more 
elite class include Captain Alexan­
der's Moonraker restaurant, which 
is rumored to have the best seafood 
in the Midwest (those who live on 
either caost and are accustomed to 
good seafood will soon I.ea~, 
however, that such a reputation ts 
not hard to ·achieve in the mid-
west),: Macri's, located on Lincoln-
Way West, has delicious Italian 
food and an even better dining 
atmosphere. Eddie's, a favorite 
spot on football weekends, and 
Holly's Landing in Mishawaka are 
also noted for fine dining. 
For those whose wallet is a little 
leaner, the stretch of U.S. 31 
extending North from Notre Dame 
into Michigan is full of less 
expensive places ranging from the 
quick serve hamburger joints and 
pizza parlors to moderately priced 
restaurants that cater to families. 
Bill Knapp's, located just north 
of St. Mary's, and Shirley's are two . examples of these. Others in that category include Rocco's on N. St. Louis Blvd. which serves mostly Italian food and Barnaby's, which 
specializes in pizza and sandwiches 
and is located on Jefferson Blvd. 
Other forms of entertainment for ing center lias a theatre, while the downtown area is blessed with several featuring a range of movies. Bowlers can be amused at the Beacon Bowl on Lincoln Way West or Shula's. 

Should shopping interest you, Scottsdale, a beautiful two-story mall which has over sixty stores, is located on the south side of town. The Town and Country and North Village Malls (located in Misha­waka and on U.S. 31 respectively) also have a good variety of stores. 
Downtown South Bend also con­tains a fine shopping district. South Bend has undergone a great deal of renewal in recent years. The River Bend Plaza, a central shopping district closed to vehi­cular traffic, is an example of how the city has earned recognition in recent years. 
In Mishawaka, the 100 Center Complex, a shopping area built in an old brewery, offers a bit of everything in the way of specialty shops. It also boasts restaurants, two theatres, and paddle boat rides on the St. Joseph River. 
At the Farmer's Market on South Eddy St., a more European atmo­sphere prevails, as produce and crafts are peddled in a more relaxed manner on Tuesdays, Thursday's and Saturdays. 
Should you decide to picnic, consider visiting Potawatomi Park, located at Mishawaka Ave. and Greenlawn Streets. Open from 10 
a.m. to 6 p.m. all year round, the park offers picnic facilities, a conservatory and greenhouse, and a zoo. 
For the real outdoor types, Bendix Woods offers five-and-a­half miles of nature trails as well as camping and fishing in the sum­mer. Tubing, skating and sledding are available in the winter. 
Should rain ruin all those outdoor plans, the day is still not a total One might visit the 
--~-----~--------------~----------· 
..I 
• 

The burden of a Freshman is a trying load, however, alternatives are 
available. 
structure built at a cost of $300,000 in 1886. The Studebaker vehicular museum contains the company's line from the first Conestoga wagon to its last car made. The Northern Indiana Historical Museum, which houses exhibits and relics of South Bend's past, and the Art Center, on No. Lafeyette St. are also entertain­ing places to visit. The Art Center will soon be moved to a modem facility near completion that overlooks the St. Joseph River. 

60 STYLES OF ATHELETIC SHOES TENNIS WEAR WARM UP SUITS SWIM WEAR & T-SHIRTS ATHLETIC BAGS 
255-7770 

MISHAWAKA 
Longer excursions could consist of a trip to Lake Michigan, only a half an hour away; the Warren Sand Dunes; ski slopes in Michi­gan; or best of all, a weekend in Chicago. The windy city is only 100 miles to the west and can be easily reached by Greyhoud Bus, Amtrak, or the South Shore train line. The great number of attractions offered by the city should be experienced at least once before leaving Notre Dame. 


100 CENTER 

Saturday, August 27, 1977 the observer 15 
Cordes leaves ND to coach at SMC 
by Jean Powley St. ~'s Editor 

Athletic programs and facilities cannot run themselves, especially when they're in the process of growing and changing quickly like St. Mary's is. 
So the college has hired Kathleen Cordes, former varsity tennis coach and instructor at Notre Dame, to oversee the Angela Athletic Facility, all athletic pro­grams and other sports facilities on campus. 
As Director of Athletics and Recreation, Cordes has been re­sponsible this summer for the planning of the Angela Athletic Facility's dedication ceremonies, the hiring of coaches for St. Mary's nine various varsity sports (field hockey, golf, softball, tennis, bas­ketball, volleyball, gymnastics, swimming and fencing), schedul­ing of the new building, develop­ment of varsity and intramural programs and planning of special athletic programs. 
She also represents the college in the Association for Intercollegiate Athletics for Women (AlAW) and 
Name that team! 
St. Mary's students will vote on a name for a1l of the college's athletic teams, Wednesday, Aug. 31 in the dining hall. 
Names on the ballot will be the Angels, the Saints or the Belles. These are the names which have most frequently appeared on sur­veys in the past, according to Mary Laverty, director of student activi­ties. 
No write-ins will be considered. 
The winning name will be an­nounced on Sept. 10 at the Angela Athletic Facility's dedication cere­monies. 
in the Midwest Association for Intercollegiate Athletics for Wo­men (MAlAW). 
Cordes will also serve as St. Mary's tennis coach. 
On the job since June 15, she has developed several new ideas for sports at St. Mary's including an exercise program for faculty and students, starting later in the year; a karate club; a track. and field day; a swimming competition day; a water events day; intramural pro­grams in flag football, volleyball, basketbal and volleyball with Notre Dame; a mixed doubles tennis tournament and a co-recreational basketball night with Notre Dame some cold night in February when nothing else is going on. 
Cordes hopes to encourage a great intramural program with a lot of competition betWeen halls and floors. 
She stresses, however, that everyone should feel a part of the new facility. "It's for everyone. I think of this program in a very recreational sense," she explained. 
Cordes holds a bachelor of science degree in physical educa­tion from Indiana University and master of arts degree in physical education from Ball State Univer­sity. 
She taught physical education and coached tennis, golf and volleyball for two years at Hanover College in southern Indiana and spent a year as athletic coordinator at Spaulding College in Louisville, Ky. before coming to South Bend last year to become the Fighting Irish's first female varsity coach. 
Why did she decide to cross the road to St. Mary's? ._ 
"I was intrigued with the pro­gram here, with the opening for an athletics and recreation director. St. Mary's has a fine program in it's beginning and I wanted to be a part of it,'' she said. 

' . ·.--..--·.·.;. 
Angela Athletic Facility at St. Mary's is finished and dedication ceremonies are scheduled for Sept.
9-11. 

SMC athletic building completed 
by Jean Powley St. Maey's Editor 
St. Mary's Angela Athletic Facil­ity is completed at last and will be dedicated in ceremonies Sept. 9-11. 
According to Kathleen Cordes,
' d' ct f thl ti'St M
. ary s new tre oro a e cs and recreation, present policies for use of the building are experimen­tal and will be revised as needed. 
'ld' ill b fr
The but mg w e open om 8 
a.m. to 11 p.m.,. Monday through Saturday and 1 to 11 p.m. on Sundays. It will be closed on home Notre Dame football afternoons. 
Students may s<;hedule courts one or two days in advance, between the hours of 9 a.m. and 5 
p.m. by calling the facility. 
When courts are unscheduled, players wi~l be allowed to use th~m 
on a first-come, first-served basts. 
Faculty members will be allowed to schedule courts one day in advance. Only faculty memberS\ may schedule courts between noon and 1 p.m., Monday through : Friday. · . Prion'ty e ents h h · al 
v sue as p ystc

education 'ty
1

club functi c asse~ v:S~ fu s~rts, 
. _ons an sc. oo n on~ have p~onty over pnvate persons scheduling. 
Notre Dame students may use the facility if accompanied by a St. Mary's student. Everyone must show an ID to olav. 
Comprising JO,Ooo square feet, the Angela Athletic Facility houses three interchangeable courts floor­ed with resin-guard for tennis, basketball and volleyball; a multi­purpose area for fencing,. gymnas­
. tics, tumbiing, exerctslDg and dance; two racquetball/handball courts; and a sauna, offices, dress­ing rooms and storage areas. 
· Recessed seats will accomodate 2,000 spectators. 
Designed by C.F. Murphy and Associates, the 51.8 million facility is equipped with several energy­saving features. 
The vertical surface of the build­ing is covered with a translucent wall material which will ensure low fuel consumption during summer and winter alike. Because of its translucence, electrical lighting during daylight hours is not neces­sary. 
The exterior end walls of the complex are designed as panels which can be dismantled and relocated if expansion should ever be undertaken. 

NOTRE DAME DEPARTMENT OF MUSIC 
William Cerney, Chairman 
BAND CHAPEL CHOIR BRASS AND WOODWIND ENSEMBLES CHORALE JAZZ BAND GLEE CLUB ORCHESTRA UNIVERSITY CHORUS 
PRIVATE INSTRUCTION All Choral Auditions 102 Crowly Hall.of Music 

SUNDAY 6-8 pm (freshmen only) 
MONDAY AND TUESDAY 10 -12 am, 1 -4 pm, 6-8 pm ( all Students) 

WEDNESDAY 10-12 am 
Band Programs-inquire at Washington Hall (7136) For Other Information -Inquire at Crowly Hall of Music 
-0-r 
Saturday, August 27, 1977 

16 the observer 
I ... T 
" 

Students gather on the north side of O'Shaughnessy Hall to board the St. Mary's-Notre Dame shuttle bus [that bastion of punctuality]. The buses' daily schedule will be published in next week's Observer. 




St. Mary's Freshman Orientation Schedule 
Saturday, August 27 

9 a.m. -, arrival-check in at residence hall desk 2 p.m. 
12-1:30 p.m. tours, on the hour, lemans green. 
12:30 p.m. lunch, dining hall 

2 p.m. freshman day student's social, clubhouse 
2-2:45p.m. welcome, john duggan, president; william hickey, vice president; kathleen rice, dean of student affairs, sister katherine reichert, campus ministry coordina· tor; thomas monahan, parents council chairman; mary rukavina, student government president •• o'laughlin. , 
3-3:45p.m. academic briefing, a-1 students/parents. little theater m-z students/parents, o'laughlin transfer students/parents, 232 moreau 
4-4:45 p.m. student affairs briefing, a-1 freshmen and transfer students and parents, o'laughlin m-z students and parents, academic briefing, little theatre 
5 p.m. mass, freshmen students and parents, lemans green -rain: church of loretto 
5:45-7 p.m. picnic, administrative-parents council reception and picnic, dining hall green, rain: dining hall. 
8 p.m. show, musical review and talent show, o'laughlin 
9:30p.m. social, transfer student social, clubhouse 
10:30 p.m. hall parties 
Sunday, August 28 

8 a.m. mass, church of loretto 
8:15-9:15 a.m. breakfast, dining haU 
9 -10:30 a.m. academic open house 
10 a.m. study abroad programs, smc-carroll hall, nd-147 made leva mass, church of loretto 
11:30 a.m.-brunch, dining hall 
1:30 p.m. 

2:15-survey, all freshmen, dining hall 2:45p.m 
3-3:45 p.m. a-1 freshmen registration briefing, carroll hall m-z freshmen class workshop, little theater transfer students-registration briefing, 147 madel­eva 
4-4:45p.m. a-1 freshmen class workshop-student affairs, little theatre m-z freshmen registration briefing, carroll hall 
4:45-6 p.m. dinner, dining hall 

9 p.m. dance, concourse ace, nd 
10 p.m. mass, stapleton lounge 
Monday, August 29 

8:30a.m.-registration, basement, lemans 4:30p.m. 
5:30p.m. madonna night buffet, dining hall 
7:30p.m. madonna night liturgy, church of loretto 
Tuesday, August 30 first day of classes 
10 a.m.-library tours, on the hour 2 p.m. 
4 p.m. smc/nd transfer student picnic, clubhouse 
8 p.m. concert, open air concert, south quad, nd. 





ND administration outlined 
by PhD Cacldey chairing the Committee on Univer-
Senior Staff Reporter sity Priorities. ·Fr. James T. 

BurtchaeU, who held the post for 
A university would not exist the past seven years, recently without students; but without cer-submitted his resignation. tain key personnel and administra-Fr. Edmund Joyce, bas served as tors, the university would not executive vice president for the function. Vice-presidents, past 25 years. Assisting the provosts, deans, assistant d~ans, president in the area of general associate provosts: the seemmgly administration, Joyce has authority mindboggling mosaic of positions over matters of a technical nature. and names can be understood. His most visible actions take the 
Having just marked his 25th year form of decisions affecting athletics as University president, Fr. for which he is responsible. Theodore Hesburgb, needs little A 1937 graduate of Notre Dame, introduction. An acknowledged Joyce taught religion at the univer­leader in both Catholic and national sity and acted as vice-president for public affairs Hesburgh has served business administration before as-on countless committees for the suming his present duties. Born in Vatican, the U.S. government, and 1917 in Tela, Honduras, he holds tecently was elected chairman of degrees in religious studies, law the Board of Trustees of the and accounting and is a member of Rockefeller Foundation. several honorary societies. 
Born in Syracuse, N.Y. in 1917, In the position of associate Hesburgh entered Notre Dame as provost, Fr. Ferdinand Brown, has an undergraduate in 1934. He served for the past seven years and joined the Notre Dame faculty in assists the provost in academic 1945 as an associate professor of administration. Brown graduated theology, moving into the from Notre Dame in 1938 with a chairmanship of that department bachelor's degree in philosophy, three years later. Appointed receiving master's and doctoral executive vice-president in 1949, degrees in mathematics in 1945 he began his tenure as president in and 1947. He began teaching at du 1952. Lac in 1946 and was acting vice-
Serving as second-in-command president for academic affairs of the University, the provost's before his appointment as associate office was created in 1970 by the provost. Board of Trustees. The provost is Vice-president for Business concerned especially with adminis-Affairs, 'I1Iomu J. Muon is enter­tration and development of acade-ing his second year in that post. He mic activities. A fellow and trustee replaced Fr. Jerome Wilson who of the university, he also serves as retired last. year a!'er serving 24 acting president in the absence of years as Vlce-prestdent. Mason the president, in addition to came to South Bend from the 
: Electro-Voice EVS-168 : 
: 3-Way 12." Speaker System • 
• 
This Acoustic suspension system has
• 
perlormance equal to many floor stand­

• 
ing speakers. From the thundering

• 
power of an organ pedal note to delicate

• 
musical overtones, nothing is lost, nothing added to affect your listening pleasure. 12 inch woofer, s inch mid-range and shallow curved cone tweeter. 14x2Sx13. Shipping weight 44 lbs. 


• 
•• :  ..  113 W. Colfax (near Morris Civic)  
:  288-1681  •  
•  ooen  12:30 ­ 6 ~m  dailv  •  

······••4••·············~······················

<nbr 

J!ntn~Jts 

MEN'S HAIRSTYLING ,, Welcome Freshman 

Miss Sharon Brandl Manager 
-~~~­
\ 
'i;·· . 

~~ conc~prm haimyfmg for men.· .· ~) •· .. fost.service, carefree cutt and hlaw ,1 st)'tes. located on oor lower leVel Wdtt iiS owf' prtvote entrar;ce. Complete. 
..; 

pl"ivocy in indi\1idual·~ units ' 
··­

Shampoo, cvt, ow dry· . cmd_~tioner ----~... $8.50 COMPlETE 
-.--~ 

~uttn'~ ( a~tlt· 
54533 TERRACE lANE 
Tues., Wed., Sot. 8:30 -5:30, Thurs. & Fri. 8:30 · 8:30 
PHONE _2U -J69J 
University of Michigan, where he had been director of financial affairs. A certified accountant, he 
took  degrees  in  accounting  and  
business administration from  the  
University of Detroit.  

Dr. James Frick, as vice-presi­dent for public relations and deve­Jopment, oversees five depart­ments dealing with public relations development, and alumni affairs. An office't of the Board of Trustees, he also serves on a number of Universjty committees. Frick has been the major force behind the capital fundraising campaigns, which, during the last 15 years, have raised over $100 million for the University. 
In his third year as vice president for student affairs, Bro. Just Paczesny, has responsib­ility for the nonfinancial and non­academic areas of student life. A native of South Bend, Paczesny graduated from Notre Dame in 1949 and received his master's in educational administration in 1961. Prior to his appointment as vice president, he worked as director of student services, as well as two years in the position of assistant superintendant of the Archdiocese of Chicago's Office of Education. 
In charge of all post-baccalaureate programs is Dr. Robert E. Gordon, vice president for advanced studies. Gordon supervises all research as well as course-work at the University, and is a noted vertebrate scientist and former editor of several scientific publications. ~aving received 
(Continued on paae 17) 
> 
. I 

NQtre Dame campus Qffers variety of entertainment 
by Bub J:.aaheary Copy Editor 

"Getting away from it all" after 
a hard week of booking can mean 
just taking a short walk across 
campus to take advantage of the 
wide variety of entertainment offer­
ed to students. 
The campus also hosts a variety 
of entertainment spots which cater 
to an assortment of tastes • 
The Nazz provides a relaxing 
atmosphere for listening to some 
local entertainment. Located in the 
basement of LaFortune Center, the 
Nazz features a number of students 
who entertain the early evening 
audience with their musical ability . 
Food is also available . 
The versatile LaFortune Center 
is then turned into a late night 
studiers' hang-out from midnight 
to 4 a.m. on "school nights." Since 
the proprietor is a dog named 
Darby, the hang-out is appropriate­
ly named Darby's Place and in 
addition to featurin ; a late night 
place to study, it also features 
donuts, coffee, hot chocolate and 
the company of the proprietor's 
master, Fr. Robert Griffin. 
For those of legal age (21) the senior bar opens its doors on the weekend and a few nights during the week. It has also been heard that St. Mary's is in the stage of developing a senior bar. 
Also available at St. Mary's is the SMC Coffeehouse, which is similar to the Nazz. 
Each Friday at 5 p.m. a mass is celebrated and dinner served at the Bulla Shed, located on the fringe of the campus near Grace Hall. 
For those who appreciate art there are the .lSIS Gallery of student art located in the Old Fieldhouse and the O'Shaughnessy Art Gallery. 
Offering spaghetti dinners in a red-checked table cloth furnished room, Lewisio' s is open on Friday and Saturdays with advance reset· vations required. 
Pool hustlers are DOt forgotten and can ez:hibit their -skill in the game room located below the Huddle. 
Sa.dlat u...a. Adltl..
---. 

The. Student Union sponsors many entertainment activities throughout the year. In additiOn to a few dances, there are concerts and Cinema '77, a film series. 
In the course of the year there are also a few special events. Mardi Gras, fashioned after the New Orl~ celebration, is held in late winter and An Tostal, an annual Irish spring celebration, takes place during a weekend in the spring. The latter features the popular bookstore basketball tour­nament, as well as some activities held:in mud pits. 
-Cultunl~ For those who prefer entertain­ment other than mud slinging, the Sophomore Literary Festiv4 a series of literary speakers, ~o takes place in the spring. The Student Union also sponsors a lecture series each year, high­lighting various political, literary and popular interest speakers. Music lovers can enjoy several types of concerts throughout the year. The University chorus, Glee Oub, Notre Dame Band and music students occasionally give recitals. Something for theJocb The athletic types of the campus are in luck as the sports facilities available at Notre Dame are second to none. The ACC has ice skating, racquetball, basketball, track, tennis and weight room facilities available. The use of these facilities is open to any Notre Dame student with the racquetball courts requiring reservations. The Knute Rockne Memorial, commonly known as the Rock, offers swimming, basketball, rac­quetball, gymnastics and weight room facilities all available without reservations. The great outdoors provides such opportunities as tennis, golf and basketball, not to mention frisbee and football on the quads. There is even a small beach on St. Joseph's Lake. If a more organized sports prog­ram is preferred, there are nu­. merous interball and intrahall act­ivities ranging from tennis, basket­ball and volleyball to football, soccer and softball. For those who prefer not to participate there are various varsity and club sports matches to attend. Times and places for the games are usually posted in every hall. This mention of varsity sports watching also includes Notre Dame football weekends, which it is said must be experienced before they can be fully appreciated . 
Otlaer ...........IOB'eM 
Avid picnic fans can eat their fill at any of the several picnics on the quad. The first will be Carney '77 taking place sometime in the near future. 
Emil T. Hofman, dean of the freshman year of studies, sponsors several "Emil Parties" throughout the year. In the upcoming weeb there are usually some barbeques and in the winter there are snow parties and a trip to Chicago. 

-~---___,.r-"'!"'1"'!_..,....------·~·· ~ . -----~~------""'111,_,411!!!!J$f!!!!""·:":.-------$1111!.",·'ll!'!'k_-._,:o----,--___,.,..~-~"~'?'C'_""''!""!'!illll!!.i\PII'III_~--'""""'''o••-. 
.. -.:' ~:r -~ .. ·' 
.. ·_ ·;-· 

1 
'· ...· ..... 0 .M , 0 : ' !" •" ,. ,. ' -~ 
WHERE TO FIND IT ON THE FIRST FLOOR OF THE HAMMES NOTRE DAME· BOOKSTORE 
1. 
ENTER 14. SCHOOL SUPPLIES 

2. 
NOTRE DAME 15. ART GALLERY SPORTSWEAR 16. BRIEF BAGS 

3. 
JACKETS 17. PICTURES & PLAQUES 


A. CAPS 18. RELIGIOUS JEWELRY 
5. BLAZERS 19. FASHION JEWELRY -6. IMPRINT SHOPS 20. NOTRE DAME JEWELRY 
7. 
COPYING 20. PENS 

8. 
NOVEL TIES 2L,CALCULATORS _ 

9. 
INSIGNIA WARE 21. UP TO BOOK DEPARTMENT 


~I 
10. GREETING CARDS 23. PARCEL CHECK .' \ 11. RECORDS 24. 12 CHECKOUT STATIONS 
12. HEALTH & BEAUTY AIDS TO BETTER SERVE YOU ....... 13 STATIONARY & NOTES 25. EXIT ONLY 
J r·--· ­
."'"'\ 


I Please use this WEST entrance _/ :) l __ l 0 6
K 

:; 
'--' . 

i ' 
1 .u r

',I 
I ' 

. I L------­
L~ 

) ~ 
j ~ k':
... j;

WHERE TO FIND BOOKS ON THE UPPER LEVEL OF THE HAMMES BOOKSTORE AT NOTRE DAME "'-' 
-
•. 
. I -i 
1 
6 7 7 
~~
1--+--H E+ J~El R--R 
liTERATURE NON-FICTION 

8 8 
t 

10 11 12 13
t----+-----+-----111----f----+3-----+--: I I 9 
HISTORY LANGUAGES 

-~ 
.--~PH____:IL:.::;OSO=-PHV POETRY E+~±_I-_T--E1-~I~j EI I ~~B-=BL_! __ F---F--r-T-~~:=£--1,---l 14 15 16 17 
POLITICAl SCIENCE SOCIOLOGY 

18 19 20 21 22 ~ 
RELIGION 

~----+----+-·-·+---'1-~J --~F~-F:"-1 I I I I I I I ll ! I I f-Tt f3 -~ 
.. 
FICTION COOK~G 
23 24 35. 25 26 27 28
REFERENCE DRAMA

E]--I · I -I ] I---=r------=3 ~ ~ . ).' 
Fil-M N 0 PRESS GAMES MISCELLANEOUS MUSIC 

n-rf I H_E F-I I £--.----.---U_IJ 
31 31 32 33 33
BIOGRAPHY PSYCHOLOGY 

'-::-:F-:-::::-F-:'=:-:::-:-:-~~+I;,=.-=i--=--1+=--~-+-1~-='==:::j ..----.---1I==t~~J:~ F I I -3 I~ 
NEW PUBLICATIONS HUM()!-> TRAVEL 
34 33 36 
REliGION SPOAfS 

OICTIOI'<AF<IES 



) 
\ 
~ 
f 

j ...... 
) ,_. 1 ENGLISH 9 MUSIC 25. BIOLOGY 33 LAW ~~ '· 
17. ENGINEERING CORE 
2 COLLEGIATE SEMINAR 26 EARTH SCIENCE
10 FINANCE 18 ARCHITECTURE 34 ART 
3 GENERAL PROGRAM 27 CHEMISTRY
1 1 ACCOUNTING 19 AEROSPACE ENGA 35 MET ENGR 
4 GOVERNMENT 28. PHYSICS 36 MILITARY SCIENCE
12 MARKETING 20 CHEMICAL ENG 
5 SOCIOLOGY 13 MATHEMATICS 21 CIVIL,ENG 29. PHILOSOPHY 6 AMERICAN STUDIES 30. PSYCHOLOGY
14. MANAGEMENT 22 ELEeTRICAL ENG
7 MODERN LANGUAGES 31 THEOLOGY ~,.
15. MBA 23 UNIFIED SCIENCE
8 HISTORY 32. SPEECH & DRAMA
16. ECONOMICS 24 MICROBIOLOGY 
••-­
. ' 
·' 

Saturday, A~gust 27, 191?' the obs.-wr 1'9 


1977 Football Schedule 


%Observer 
September 10 October 29 Pittsburgh NAVY 
September 17 November 5 Mississippi (Jackson) GEORGIA TECH 
September 24 November 12 Purdue Clemson 
October 1 November 19 MICHIGAN STATE AIR FORCE 
October 15 December 3 Army (Meadowlands) Miami · 
October 22 SOUTHERN CAL 
Tennis tryouts to be held 
All candidates for the mens late Friday afternoon. varsity tennis team, except the 3. First round matches are. 1977 monogram winners will be scheooled Saturday morning. required to play in the fall double Times to be posted. elimination tournament scheduled for September 2, 3, 4, 5. There will be no opportunity to try out in the ND uniqueness spring due to the calendar. Please [continued from page 20] follow these instructions precisely: matter how minute it may seem to 
1. Fill out the special application some, is a part of this tradition. form .and return it to coach Fallon From varsity sports to club 
befor noon Thursday, Sept. 1. sports, from interhall to intrahall, 
2. The draw will be posted at the all of these activities are a vital part varsity courts by 4 p.m. Thursday of the tradition and the people that and if preliminary matches are comprise the University of Notre 
needed they will be scheduled for Dame duLac. 
rI\, The Place Beforf!_ &· After T"e Gamel 

8l General Store 



~0 2::::~~::t~~~~~E~=-
Darden and Emmons Road; South Bend 
• Water Beds 
Galore

• LEATHER GOODS 

* QINE and QRINK 
.-..Full Service Dining ll
·MAGAZINES 
with a Tiffony Atmosphere. With Fine Beer and Wtne.
r ·Newspapers 
SERVING-New York Style Neopolitan Pizza
·CLOTHING 
, Chicago Style O.ep Dish Piua • fantastic lalCJ90a
·Posters 
, ' Spaghetti • Salad • De.lidou$ SOndwid1es • Our · 
'111111111 Minestone Soup
·CANDLEs· ,...,._ FAST CARRY-OUT
• Jewelry
·Cards 
~
•INCENSE 
•Rugs 
darden 
t
•
Tapestry

• 
Bedspreads 



~ I 
• PIPES 

·PAPERS 
•lites N.D. -t 
·NOVELTIES * 
DELIVERY to Notre Dame
·BOOkS 
and St. Mary's 277 -4522
• PARPHERNALIA 50' delivery fee
113 West 
Opeft MM. thru Thurs. 11 a.m..-1 2 IP·fl'l·-fri. & S.. U LA•1 ..,._
lunciGY Plua &. Ptav 1 211~ te 11·....-. 
. Dfne & DriNr: JiOO le I 0 p.M.

MonroeSt 
On block east 
FREE I FREE 
I

of Bus Station 
PITCHER OF POP I 12 oz. SOFT DRINK I 
with purchase of with purchase of I
ONE BLOCK \\EST OF THE 
POST OFFICE 
a large pizza I a small pizza.
? _______..
I 

~------­






I 
:I 
l
1. 
I. 
! 
··.. ic. 
' ' 
T 

I) I 
I 
! 
I 
'I 

. 


------, 
the observer Saturday1 August 271 1977 
Notre Dame: a unique combination 
by Paul SteveniOD Sports Editor 
Many students are drawn to the University of Notre Dame du Lac because of their academic stan· dards, while others come to South Bend because of their interest in athletics. In actuality, the combi· nation of these two qualities is what sets Notre Dame apart from the rest. 
September 28, 1974 marked the first Notre Dame athletic contest I witnessed as a Notre Dame stu· dent. Although the heavily favored Irish were upset by Purdue Univer· sity on that day, what transpired in the remaining weeks of the season was characteristic of the Notre Dame tradition I have observed over the past three years. 
The Irish proceeded to capture seven straight contests that year and although they were thrashed by the University of Southern California, 55-24, in the regular season 'finale, the Irish gridders gave Head Coach Ara Parseghian a 13-11 victory over Alabama in the Orange Bowl as a farewell address. This win ranked the Irish as the number four team in the nation at the conclusion of Parseghian's final season. 
The Irish had overcome the disappointment of suspended play­ers and exasperating vicious ru­mors, to send their coach out in the style he had brought back to Notre Dame. 
The 1976-77 basketball season has to be the most memorable that I have ever been able to follow. The Irish were not even rated in the 
Tim Bourret The Year of the Irish? Bone's Briefs 
According to most of the collegiate sports "experts," 1977-78 is defensive secondary. The return of Randy Harrison, one of four suppose to be one of the most outstanding athletic seasons in the top-notch, experienced starters that used to start for Ara Parseghian's University of Notre Dame's 136-year history. Not since the fall of 1973 Irish, has moved Joe Res tic, who gained honorable mention has optimism about the Fighting Irish varsity teams been so prtprevalent All·A.merica status as .Harrison's substitute last season, to the b.en.ch: 

polls, since many Notre Dame evaluators felt that a team that lost Adrian Dantley would not survive their upcoming schedule. 
The Irish surprised the collegiate basketball world by upsetting Maryland 80-79 in College Park. However, the supreme test for the Irish would come four games later when Notre Dame travelled to Los Angeles to take on UCLA. The Irish became the first non· conference team to defeat the Bruins in Pauley Pavilion. 

Notre Dame wa.s 4-0 before the clash and when they left Los Angeles, they had increased their mark to 5-0, via a 66-63 upset triumph over the Bruins. 
The Irish cagers returned to 
1: 
on campus and around the entire nation. 
Four years ago the football and basketball teams lived up to their 
lofty pre-season build-up, as the gridders captured the National 
Championship and the hoop squad scored 26 victories, including the 
destruction of UCLA's magnificent 88-game win skein. The hockey 
team, Notre Dame's third "big-time" club, upset the nation's 
number-one ranked team, Michigan Tech, 7-1. 
If the 1977-78 Notre Dame sports year does not at least equal the 
accomplishments of that memorable season they never will. At least 
that is the feeling of most knowledgeable sports people from coast to 
coast. 

Every publication concerning predictions for the coming collegiate football season selects the Irish among their top five and many (including the "Bible," Street & Smith's Magazine) picks the Irish as the premiere team in the country. Dan Devine's third Irish eleven is a logical choice to capture the mythical National Championship this season. 
At the end of spring practice, 23 of a possible 22 starters returned from the team that ended the 1976 regular season. That does not sound correct mathematically, but including the return of injured players who sat out last season, the numbers are correct. 
Devine lost only starters Dan Kelleher, Rick Slager and AI Hunter from the 1976 team for reasons including graduation. The other 19 starters plus injured past starters Joe Montana, Randy Harrison, Jeff Weston and Jerome Heavens all return. No other school in the nation can boast such a solid core of returning experience. 
The wealth of talent seems inexhaustable. Devine's major decision concerning starting personnel was made last spring when he selected Rusty Lisch as his starting quarterback. Rusty won the job with an excellent spring game, but as the season wears on it will be obvious to all that the coaching staff could not have gone wrong with his choice. 
Joe Montana is equally adept and is especially effective under pressure situations. Just check highlights of Notre Dame contests with Air Force and North Carolina two seasons back. 
The Irish offense suffered some setbacks in the off-season due to the loss of AI Hunter and Willard Browner. But, the stable of running backs still is the swiftest Notre Dame has fielded since the days of Eric Penick 1and Art Best. Instead of Hunter, Jerome Heavens and Vagas Ferguson rushing for 600 yards apiece, Heavens and Ferguson should now split 1800 yards evenly. Jerome and Vagas have shown flashes of brilliance in their abbreviated careers and should highlight the wing-T offense. · 
Hunter's replacement, Dave Waymer, will also make major contributions in many ways. He is perhaps the finest all-around football player on the team, as evidenced by his exceptional two-way performance in his freshman season in 1976. 
The Notre Dame defense is one of the finest in the country, predominantly due to the presence of 19760utland Trophy winner Ross Browner. The 6-4, 250 pound defensive end is the first legitimate Heismann Trophy candidate to perform on the defensive side of the line of scrimmage in years. He is simply awesome and will be denied the award only because of injury or his ''difficult to publicize position.'' 
On the other flank is co-captain Willie Fry, who is also All-America caliber. The depth of this team is never more impressive than in the 

South Bend at 3 a.m. that morning in below zero weather. However, when arriving at the main circle, 3000 students plus the Fighting Irish band were there to greet them. That's what makes Notre Dame so distinctive. 
The University of San Francisco came to the Athletic and Convoca· tion Center with a 29-0 ledger for 

Imagme, an Ali-Amenca on the bench. One has to be very optimistic about the fall. 
The winter could be equally successful. Digger Phelps' basketball team returns four starters from a 22-7 club that came two last ~econd free throws from defeating NCAA runner-up North Carolina m the Eastern Regionals. Like he did in the spring prior to the 1973-74 season, Phelps went to Washington D.C. and New Jersey to recruit two of the country's top players. The accomplishments of Adrian Dantley, Metro Player of the Year in 1973, during his Notre Dame career are too long to document here. If the class of 81's Tracy Jackson, 1977 Metro Player of the Year in Washington D.C., is half as effective, Digger Phelps will be very pleased. 
But the most promising freshman and perhaps the member of the Class of '81 who will make the most significant contribution to sports at Notre Dame this season is Kelly Tripucka. He averaged 36 points a game last year at Bloomfield High School in an area of New Jersey close to the playgrounds that produced former Notre Dame basketball star Bill Paterno. He is just as aggressive as the blond bomber, but is a finer all-around performer. 
Tripucka probably will not start, due to the presence of experienced forwards Dave Batton and Bruce Flowers. Rich Branning and Don "Duck" Williams return in the back court. Branning is the quarterbac.k of the offense and Duck the shooter. They complement each other as well as any backcourt tandem in the country. 
But the biggest reason for optimism concerning the possible accomplishments of Digger Phelps' seventh team is the return to eligibility of BiU Laimbeer. The Toledo, Ohio native now has 250 pounds on his 6-11 frame. He is Notre Dame's first pure center since John Shumate performed in the pivot in 1973-74. Laimbeer was becoming the most impressive player in the lineup early in the 1975-76 season but he ran into academic difficulties and was forced to spend the 1976-77 campaign in limbo at a junior college in Toledo. 
He spent last summer at Notre Dame improving his academic standing and his basketball expertise. He furthered his roundball talent in pickup games against Adrian Dantley and other members of the varsity who attended the summer session. In short, Bill should provide the Irish with the offensive and defensive talents that make the difference between an NCAA regional semifinalist and a national champion. 
Although the basketball and football teams will receive most of the ink, there are other varsity teams on campus that are looking forward to very successful seasons. Mike Decico's fencing team has been more successful than any varsity squad for years. They are the defending National Champions and return two individual National Champions, Pat Gerard and Mike Sullivan. They are even a better bet than the football team to regain the number-one ranking. 
The Irish hockey squad had one of its most successful campaigns in _19767-77. They finished second in the WCHA, by far the toughest league in collegiate hockey. Lenny Moher and John Peterson, perhaps the finest goal-tending duo in the nation, and Donny Fairholm, a stick-handling wizzard, will be back to lead the Irish this season. 
The Irish track squad had its most successful recruiting year ever while the baseball, swimming, tennis, golf and wrestling teams all return a solid core of experienced talent. 
Overall, it should be a sports year to remember. 
the season finale, rated number one in the nation. They left with a 29·1 mark, a prediction which Irish mentor Digger Phelps had told the student body to chant the entire game.. 
The support the student body provided in that contest was so unbelievable that the NBC network awarded the player of the game to the student body. 
· Notre Dame can make a season for an opposing school. As long as Notre Dame is beaten, regardless of the overall record, the season has been successful. 
However, that task is not that easily achieved. Notre Dame has compiled its own share of outstand­ing upsets. The longest winning streaks in collegiate football and basketball history belong to Okla­homa and UCLA respectively. The Irish hold the victories at both ends of the spectrum when those streaks began and ended. 
In 1952, the Fighting Irish de­feated the Sooners 27-7. Oklahoma went on to capture 47 consecutive contests before falling to Notre Dame once again in 1957, 7-0. 
In 1971, Austin Carr tallied an incredible 46 points to down UCLA 89-82. However, after that confron-, tation, the Bruins went on to win 88 consecutive games. That string was terminated in 197~ when the Irish shocked the Bruins 71-70. 
The Fighting Irish also ended Marquette's 81 homecowt winning streak in 1C.,,J with a 71-69 triumph. The following year Notre Dame ended South Carolina'!'" 14 homecourt victory string wi.,, a 72-68 win. 
The most successful sport at Notre Dame and one that receives minimal publicity is fencing. The Fighting Irish fencers defeated 54 opposing schools in the NCAA Championship last year to en route to claiming their national title. 
The fencing team's unbeaten string now stretches over'the past couple years and now stands at 67' matches (excluding the NCAA's). 
Head Coach Mike DeCicco has compiled a record of 291 wins and only 32 defeats since taking over as mentor in 1962. Guiding his squad to a 23-0 record last season earned him NCAA Coach of the Year distinction. 
The Irish will have two All­Americas returning to their squad next year. In foil, gold medal winner Pat Gerard will return with a 115-16 lifetime ledger. In sabre, junior Mike Sullivan will return with an incredible 100-2 mart,. in addition to his gold · medal performance in the NCAA's last March. 
Athletics at Notre Dame are a part of its tradition-rich history. Every sport at this school, oo 
[eondnued on paae 19) 







