
server 


University rules, except parietals apply to 0/C students: Roemer 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's
Vol. XII, No. 27 
Wednesday, October 5, 1977 
,.~, "'"' 
Kidnapping occurs 
HPC discusses United Way 
Tony Pace Staff Reporter 
Speaking before an informal gathering of approximately SO stu­dents in the Dillon Hall chapel, Notre Dame Dean of Students James A. Roemer stated that "the only university rule which does not apply to off-campus students is parietals. The sexuality rule, which is distinct from the parietal rule, applies to all students." 
Roemer, who was responding to an Observer opinion column by Tom Byrne, said, "I beg to differ with my good friend, Tom Byrne; the rules which we now have apply to all students, not just those on campus. Whether on East Angela 
..,Boulevard or on-campus, all Uni­versity rules, with exception of parietals, apply. The parietal rule is only one of the nine rules which we have governing students." 
These rules, which include man­dates on pre-marital sex, alcohol and drugs, are now being dis­cussed in the course of a revision of du Lac. "The revision," said Roemer, "Does not concern the rules themselves. Rather it is concerned with the procedures for dealing with violations of these rules as outlined in du Lac." The procedures set forth in du Lac have come under fire because of what Roemer termed the "celebrated cases" of the past year. 
Though he never referred to it directly, Roemer attempted to clarify the circumstances surround­ing one of those cases, that concerning former N~tre Dame running back AI Hunter. when 
INSIDE: 
page 3: reports on lost library books 
and 
women's security on campus 
asked about his appeal supposedly occurring after the five day dead­line for appeals, Roemer stated, "The judicial board returned their verdict on May 9 and I appealed the decision on May 12, only three days later and well within the estab­lished deadline. I sent a supple­mental. my initial appeal occurred within the time limit." 
He went on to describe the methods whereby students can appeal their decisions. In the first method, students would simply "climb the university ladder," appealing first to Brother Just and then. if the situation warranted, to Hesburgh. 
These approaches were dis­cussed in connection with the other "celebrated case" which involved two Dillon men and two Lyons women last fall. All four of these students were expelled for a bla­tant parietals violation. Though theywere all given the option of 
applying  for  readmission  to  the  
University,  none  of  them  has  
returned as of yet.  

Roemer said these two cases have been instrumental in bringing about discussion for changing the disciplinary procedures. He pointed out, ''Two years ago a committee, which had one student on it, recommended that we remove students from the board. They felt that it placed too much pressure on the students to make these types of decisions concerning other students. But because of extraneous reasons, this proposal was never acted upon. These rather celebrated cases have started things moving." 
''After the trustee meetings this summer, we brought representa­tives from student government, the Observer, the Scholastic, and · WSND back early, on August 25, to begin the task of restructuring du Lac. I have not received any proposal from the student commit­tee as of yet. I wanted a smaller committee, of three or four, to· write the revision. But this was . defeated by the HPC, so there the committee doing the revision has seven people. I'm ready to negotiate the points of their pro­
posals anytime. The final pro­posals have to be submitted to the trustees during their meetings on USC weekend," he summarized. 
Roemer's appearance in Dillon was sponsored by the Dillon Hall academic commission. Roemer was the first speaker to appear 
McTaggart informed the HPC that the money raised in the South Bend area wifl be used to fund volunteer programs in South Bend. ''More than likely there is not one volunteer organizatio_n in the city that will not benefit from the United Way campaign," he said. 
He also noted that money raised at Notre Dame will not be used to finance abortion or other activities the community deems inappropri­ate. 
Russell stressed the importance of student participation, stating. "We're simply asking the student to donate the money they would probably spend on a few beers. or on a sandwich at food sales." He added, "the money will be put to fine use." 
Later in the meeting. Anne Thompson, Student Government chairperson of co-education, ad­dressed the HPC concerning the Student Government's proposed escort service. She indicated that the service would operate on a volunteer basis. 
The list of volunteer escourts will be available at the ombudsman office in a few weeks. 
She also announced a proposal for a Security Advisory Board, which would meet with Security Director Arthur Pears once a month to discuss complaints and sugges­tions concerning campus security. The board will consist of four undergraduate students, two rec­tors, one graduate student, and an off-campus sesident. 
The HPC also discussed the budget for this year, and approved a set of guidelines for its budget committee. The schedule for allocation fo funds to the halls was discussed, and Russell called for "accurate estimates" of each hall's financial situation and plans for using the available funds. 
The HPC was also briefed on changes at Memorial library by Student Body Vice-President Tom Soma. Soma ~aid that new tables have been installed in the base­ment, and that all of the seminar rooms are open on weeknights for students' usc. 
He also said that socializing on the second floor is "still a prob­lem;" but it is hoped that the basement improvements would help alleviate some of the noise in the library. 
Additionally, Mike Kammer­diener. co-chairperson of the hom<.>­coming committee, addressed the HPC concerning the schedule for homecoming week. He said that students who purchased a home­coming ticket package must have their dance tickets validated, due to the limit of dance tickets being sold. 
The meeting was disrupted for a short period of time when a group identified as the "Dillon Liberation Army" kidnapped Grace hall presi­dent Jerome Castellini. The kid­napping was said to be in retalia­tion for an incident on Saturday when Grace residents stole a Dillon flag from a party in Green Field. 
Wearing disguises and armed with an electric hair dryer, the DLA burst .into the meeting and carried Castellini out of the room. His whereabouts are unknown. 
In an official statement, Grace said that it does not condone the kidnapping, and will wait for a civilized, legal approach from Dil­
lon before returning the flag. 
BRother Joe McTaggert spoke to the HPC last night about the United Way campaign. [Photo by Kevin Walsh] 
by Michael Lewis Staff Reporter 
Brother Joe McTaggart stressed cooperation and participation as keys to the success of this year's United Way campaign. Speaking at last night's Hall President's Council meeting. McTaggart asser­ted a ''Christian obligation to take care of the poor." and urged the Communitv Services Commisioners 
and  the  hall  presidents  to  work  
together  for  the  success  of  the  
cam(lllign.  

"'I'm confident we're going to see some good results from the hall campaign." HPC Chairman J.P. Russell stated. "It's good to see the hall presidents and the com­munity services commisioners workin-g together on the same project," added Russell. 
The one-week campaign differs from past years in that each student in the halls will be contac­ted personally. Striving for a goal of ·'1 00 percent participation,'' the commisioners and hall presidents will organize door to door cam­paigns to raise funds. 

United Way of Saint Joseph's County filmed six a ST. Mary's advertising class under the direction commercials yesterday featuring Notre Dame of Sam Appleby, communications director for football pli\Yers Ken MacAfee, joe Restic, Willie United Way of st. joseph's County. The students Fry and four-year-old Billy, a United Way pictured with fry are Kathy Murphy, Fran receipient. The commercials, which were filmed Valenta, Mary McKenzie, Mary Jane Zabel and at WNDU studios, were sritten by five students of marti Hogan. [photos by Kevin Walsh] 
. -~----------~':'""""""":"""--:"'"':"'":""-----~------~-~~-~-~~------­
the observer __ Wednes~ay1 _ October 5, 1977 



,_News Briefs----~ 
I::=::::=:::::::::::::::::::::::::=:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::World 

Gandhi freed from prison 
NEW DELHI,India-A judge freed Indira Gandhi yesterday after 16 hours in police custody and she promptly resumed her political comeback campaign. But the governm~nt appealed t? a higher court and said it would press for her tnal on cor~~pt1on 
-charges. Demonstrations erupted in more than a dozen c1t1es as supporters of the 59-year-old former prime minister protested her arrest. 

Peace conference opens 
BELGRADE, Yugoslavia-A three-month international confer­ence on peace and security opened yesterday with key speakers agreeing that an escalating arms race threatens peace in Europe. The conference, a follow-up to the 1975 Helsinki summit of 35 nations, will also review progress in the area of human rights. 

Weather 
Partly cloudy with a 30-percent chance for showers today. Highs in the mid-to-upper 60's. Clearing and cool tonight. Lows in the low 40's. Mostly sunny and cool tomorrow. Highs in the upper 50's to low t?O'" 
~On Campus Today_~ 
12:15 pm 
1:45pm 
4:30pm 
4:30pm 
6 pm 
6:30pm 7 pm 7:30pm 8 pm 
8:15 pm 9-11 pm seminar, "induction of interforon by poly 1: poly c 
encapsulate in liposomes", by dr. gary burleson, 
sponsored by the micro-bio dept. rm. 278 galvin 
life-sci 
seminar, "trends in materials research funding," by dr. roberty reynik, sponsored by met. engr. dept. rm. 5 engr. building 
recital, pianist nilg vigeland, sponsored by the smc music dept., liitel theatre, smc 
colloquiam, "solitions: waves that behave like particles" by prof. roger newton,rm. 118 nieuwland science hall, all welcome 
meeting, nd judo club, a.c.c. wrestling room, all invited 
meeting, sailing club, rm. 204 engr. building, all welcome 
meeting, orientation for big brother/big sister, alumni hall lounge, all welcome 
american scene, "the spirit of medieval theology" by jaroslav pelikan, carroll hall smc 
meeting, nd-smc ski club, engr aud. 
recital, pianist marylene· dosse, sponsored by the music dept. lib. aud., all welcome 
nazz, jazz at the nazz, the two o'clock nd jazz 
combo, basement of Iafortune 
midnight album hour, "love you live" by the rolling stones, wsnd 640am 
the deadline for on-campus today notices is 2 pm of the preceding day, notices reaching the observer office after this deadline will not be accepted, also, notices for this section may be submitted several davs in advance 
Howard receives Rockne Trophy 




r.::~d:..~~s;.~:erl 
At the HPC meeting last night, 
Asst. Night Editor: Rosemary
Howard Hall was awarded the 
Mills
Rockne Trophy for "suberb quality 
Layout Staff: Sandy Colson,
and excellence in hall activities" 
Marti
for the monthly September. 
Marti Hogan Sports Layout: Tony Pace
Food Council 
Typists: Mark Rust reorgan1z1ng Tricia Meehan Tom Powanda The Food Services Advisory Eileen Lynch Council is reorganizing for the Early Morning Typist: Mike 1977-"18 school year. The council, consisting of a panel of students, 
l 
Bodle Copy Reader: Mike Villani J 
and Food Services administrators, 
meets once monthly to discuss the quality of service in the dining halls and the Huddle. 
Meetings provide students with the opportunity to offer sugges­tions and constructive criticism directly to the dining hall adminis­trators. Persons interested in becoming a member of the council should contact Chris Erickson at 1193 as soon as possible. Candi­dates must be able to attend monthly meetings on Wednesday afternoons from 4 to 5 p.m.:. 
.... ... ­
The Observer Is published Mon­day through Friday except during eum and vacation periods. Tl)e Observer Is published by the students of Notre Dame and S.lnt Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for S20 per year (S 1o per semester) from The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second clan postage paid, Notre Dame, Indiana, 46556. . The Observer Is a member of the Auoclated Press. All repro­du~ion rights are reserved. 
................... . 

SMC nurses to be capped 
By Pat Payne 
Forty-six St. Mary's juniors ~ill 
officially be accepted as nursmg 
majors during a Mass and capping 
ceremony to be held on Saturday, 
Oct. 8, at 8 p.m. in the Church of 
Loretta. 
"The ceremony marks the begin­
ning of our shift of focus from 
theory to application towards our 
fellow man," stated Sue Mazanec, 
co-chairman of the capping 
activities. 
Rev. James Zatko will officiate at 
Literary Festival chooses Joyce for theme 
by Pat Dermody 
The Sophomore Literary Fes­
tival, according to this year's 
chairperson Theresa Rebeck, is a 
celebration of literature that "ev­
eryone can enjoy." Beginning 
February 12 and running through 
Feb. 18, writers from various 
countries wilL visit the campus to 

join with the Notre Dame com­
munity in celebrating the art of 
literature. 
Rebeck, a second year Arts and 
Letters major, chose the theme for 

this year's Festival from James 
Joyce's A Portrait of the Artist as 
Young Man. "The following quote 
says Rebeck, "explains to people 

who don't know a whole lot about 
the Festival, what it is we're trying 
to do:" 
'To speak of these things and to 
try to understand their nature and, 
having understood It, to try slowly 

and humbly and constantly to 
express, to press out again, from 
the gross earth or what It brings 
forth, from sound and shape and 

color which are the prison gates of 
our soul an Image of the beauty we 
have come to understand--that Is 
art.' 
Rebeck said this passage from 

Joyce's book embodies what the 
Committee is trying to do--"to 
define and describe contemporary 

literature and it's creators." 
Although Rebeck was hesitant to 
name specific artists who will 
appear in the festival she said that 
approximately thirty five invita­

tions have been sent. Acceptances 
have already been received from 
British poet George Macbeth, 
American poet Howard Neverov, 
and Amercian playwright Preston 
Jones. 
"We're trying to get a real 

international flavor to it this year," 
continued Rebeck. Consequently, 
African writer Chinua Achibe has 
been invited to join the Festival as 
well as Latin American author 
Gabriel Garcia Marquez. 
Many "big name" authors have 

also been invited, but none have 
replied yet. "It's always q~estion­
able who is going to be here right 
up to the week of the Festival," 
Rebeck said. She added that a list 
of scheduled guests will be avail­
able sometime in early January. 
The Sophomore Literary Festival 

planning committee consists of 
sophomores and faculty advisors. 
According to Rebeck, "because the 
literary festival is such a unique 
event, hopefully everybody will 
enjoy it." 
Big Brother/Sister meets tonight 
The Big Brother/Big Sister Or­ganization of Notre Dame and St. Mary's will hold it's orientation meeting at 7 p.m. tonight in the lounge of Alumni Hall. For all those interested, the orientation will consist of a short film, an explanation of the program by case workers from the Big Brother/Big Sister Agency in South Bend, and a question-answer session. Refresh­ments will be served. 
the Mass, which is the high point of the weekend's activities. Also being planned are a picnic at the clubhouse Saturday morning, a reception in Stapleton lounge fol­lowing the Mass, and a breakfast Sunday morning at the dining hall. Over 400 parents, faculty, and 
guestsare expected to attend. 

Co-chairman Ann Gatmaitan ex­
plained that the caps will be 
blessed at the Offertory of the 
Mass, and Dr. Mary Martucci, 
nursing program director, will 
present a cap to each nurse. They, 
in turn, will recite the Nightingale 
pledge while holding miniature oil 
lamps. 

"It's our f{)rmal invitation into the 
nursing profession,'' added 
Mazanec. 

Martucci pointed out that the 
nursing cap signifies a transition 
period for the students. "They 
have accomplished certain things 
and will start others," she said. 
The cap also symbolizes much 
spiritual and traditional meaning. 
The students wear the cap selected 
two years ago by the first nursing 
class, and it is St. Mary's tradi­
tional cap," Martucci noted. 

According to Martucci, histori­
cally the nursing cap has been 
handed down several centuries. 
The women who cared for the sick 
partially covered their hair. "It 
represents the spirituality to which 
the individual is connected," 
stated Martucci. 

She also mentioned that the 
pledge is reminiscent of Florence 
Nightingale, the English nurs~ 'Yho 
restructured nurses trammg 
programs. 

Actual clinical work will commence tomorrow at St. Joseph's Hospital, Memorial Hospital and various clinics in the South Bend area. The nurses have been participating in training prog­rams, however, for five weeks. Learning to read vital signs, body mechanics, and complete patient care have been stressed in the mock-clinic set up at Havican Hall. 
Cindy Danford, co-chairman of the ceremony, expounded on the nurses' new duties. "Each student is placed in a rotation group with seven or eight other students and a faculty advisor. The rotations, lasting three to four weeks each, are composed of medical surgery, pediatrics, obstetrics, psychiatry and public health. One or two patients are assigned each week to every student and she is in charge of the care, medication, and needs of the patient for that period." 
.Danford noted that the students are, for the most part, on their own as to the needs of the patient. At the end of the day, however, there is a conference with the advisor to discuss and evaluate the day's activities. 
The nursing students will parti­cipate in clinical work every Thursday and Friday for the re­mainder of the year. Gatmaitan stated, "We get more experience with the real world than any other students here. We're continuing to 
learn  through  practical  
experience."  
''All  the  students  are  really  

enthused about the capping ceremony," Mazanec said. "We've had a lot of cooperation 
from Dr. Martucci and Mary Jo Kubinski, our advisor," she added. 

WEDS:  JAZZ IN THE NAZZ  
9-11  with the 2 O'clock N D  
Jazz Combo  
THURS:  EUGENE YANG  
9:30-11  Piano lmprovisaiton  

ing SATURDAY THE NO JAZZ CO 
Wednesday, October 5, 1977 

Missing books hard to locate 
said, "a big Atlas was taken. Now that some books taken out of by Patrick Cole how can a big 18 inch by 23 inch circulation had yet to be mended Special Projecta Editor Atlas be taken out of here? And last year. "That's how far behind 
unfortunately this is an Atlas that's we are," she added.
Editor's Note: This is the second of no longer being printed." .. Faculty member can check out a four-part series examining the 
Lonie went on to say that in the a book for a year. Unlike theavallabillty of books to students In year, SO student, he or she does not have tothe Notre Dame-St. Mary's com­1974-1975 school some books were stolen from the 14,000 renew a book every 28 days.
munity. Yesterday's story general­
reference books, which she consid­Furthermore, Faculty members can ly examined the problem whlle ers not bad. "But," she continued, walk out of the · library withoutfocusing on the check-out system ''a magnetic stripping system checking out books by taking theand lost books. Today's story 
willtake a at the check-out would help keep people from elevator from the Research library
look 
stealing books." to the basement of the library. Insystem and lost books. Tomor· 1 1975-1976 faculty members check
row's story will deal with how books are ordered and the ftnal Thousands of books missing out 6,000 books. 
--Finally, some books get de­story will illustrate the plans and tained in lockmobiles, the glass­Ideas concerning the Improvement covered carts that can be lockedof the Hbrary system. 
Another problem is that a lack of and which are used by graduate staff has delayed a steady inven­students. 
For the student searching for tory system. An inventory of the P that essential book for class or classification literature books on Only Ifthe student asks personal use, unhappiness is going the fourth floor has just been taken to the library and not being able to since April 7, 1975, and there are Only if a student asks about a 
102,615 books listed, according to book will he learn whether or not afind it. 
And unhappiness to Joseph H. library records. Some 3 percent-• another student is hogging a book, or if a book is lost, Hubner said.
Hubner, head of the collection over 3,000 books--have been declared missing. Yet to be And if the book is missing, if the
management department of the library, is when the student doesn't inventoried are the other 11 floors student does not inquire about it, 
then the book is not reordered.
ask about a book'he cannot find. of the library. "There's no way of telling if a book These books known to be missing Is the hogging of books by is missing or if a student is hogging and those unknown--are not the students a problem? Last year, 
159,951 books, periodicals, and
a book unless the student comes to only reasons why many faculty and reserve books were circulated orthe check-out desk and asks about students search futilely for mat­erial. Other books get out of checked out, according to libraryit," Hubner said. He indicated statistics. And 6,190 overduethat many students do not inquire circulation because: notices were sent out among these 
about a book he cannot find, --Many books must go to the leading some searchers to believe bindary preparation department for check-outs. From June 1975 to that the book is lost. repairs. According to Margaret May 1976, more library material 
Rybak in bindery preparations, was circulated at 166,058 and 8,054 
However, some students are walking out with books, and unfor­during the last school year, some overdue notices were issued. Also tunately they are never returned. 2,400 books had been mended 1,253 replacement fee letters 
(charges for lost books) were issued 
According to Ann Lonie, in charge since July 1976. "We repair close of the reference section, someone to 2,000 books, ones that have been that year. "If there is no response to the replacement fee notice,"
stole the library's only Atlas, last out of circulation since September (1976)," Rybak said. She added Hubner said, ''then we bill theyear. "Last school year," Lonie 
student through the Office of Student Accounts. Hubner described the library's system of check out: "The student
Campus laundry heavy 
fills out a charge card, he then brings it to the desk and a due date is stamped on it. The books are

despite Badin alternate 
checked out for 28 days. Then the books are tabbed, and it goes into Ed Callahan dollars for a new card. Last year 
file. The cards are arranged by the we had over eight hundred lost tabbing system--it lets us know 
The campus laundry has not cards, this year we have had only 
when the books is overdue." experienced any decrease in work twenty reported." said Keglovits. "Within a week that the book is load this year, despite the services "Other than these minor prob­
overdue," Hubner continued "an of the new Badin Laundromat. lems we have not had any trouble overdue notice is sent out to the 
according to the Director of the St. handling the laundry. We occa­student. If the student does not 
Michaels Laundry, Adolph sionally get students who wear respond, the collection manage­Keglovits. their roommate's clothes and put ment department will then send out "We have just as many bundles them in with their own wash. We a replacement fee notice. The as last year, if not more." said have everyone on file though, so we student will have to pay a process­Keglovits. "We are prepared to just check and see who is wearing ing charge of $4." handle the load however, so we what, and we return it to the proper Missing books usually have no problem meeting roommate." our deadlines.'' 
If a student asks for a book and it 
Recently, a powerfailure caused a appears to be missing, the shelves
First visiting
major setback in their operation. 
are checked to see if the book is 
"We were two days behind immed­missing, Hubner said. "The book iately following the failure, but we artist at ISIS will remain on file for a year," he are almost back to normal added. "But because of a lack of 
operation now. Some loads might Alan Larkin will open a "prints manpower, we can't purge the 
still be a half-day behind, but we and drawings" exhibit at the ISIS missing book file and go into the have been working overtime to Gallery on Thursday, Oct. 6, from 7 catalogue. H a student has a book catch up." added Keglovits. to 9 p.m. 
he wants and it isn't on the shelves, ''The power went out at about The show, given by this year's we check the file," he said. 
7:00 a.m., and wasn't restored first visiting artist, will run thru Overall, students not followinguntil 9:00 p.m. that evening, Fri., Oct. 14. 
through on the search for a book is "Keglovits continued, "We have 
the main problem, Hubner said. been working weekends and ND-SMC "I don't think many students know 
staying an hour overtime on the 
of our services," claimed he. weekdays to get back on tennis match "Furthermore," he continued,
schedule." 
Notre Dame's women's tennis they don't carry out the search fully The laundry is allowing only one 
team will face St. Mary's College when looking for a book."
bundle of laundry per person this today at 2:30 on the courts behind Tomorrow'; bringing In books to year, as opposed to two bundles 
the A.C.C. the Ubrary.
last year. Keglovits explained the situation this way; "We were too overloaded with bundles to stay on 
schedule. The new laundromat I,---------------,\I
didn't have anything to do with the decision, but it would help students II EARN EXTRA $$$$$ I 
who have more wash than we can handle." "Once the student has used the 
I I 
fifteen punches on his card for the 1 semester, he will have to pay the 1 COLONIAL CATERERS at the new CENTURY I
full price for his laundry.'' 
1 CENTER needs 150 part-time staff. Morning, I
Keglovits concluded. 
afternoon and · evening wor1<. Hourly wages. I
The laundry has been running 
I Waiters, watiresses and kitchen help. Prior · 
smoothly so far, except for the power failure. A problem they ran 1 experience helpful but not necessary. Write, I into last year was lost laundry including age and hours available to: Colonial 1 
cards. Students would claim to lose 
I Caterers_, 121 South Michigan, South Bend, I 
their laundry cards, then use both 
Indiana, 46601. Application forms also available at 
their old cards and their new cards 
I the office. Do not phone. I
to do twice as much laundry. "We 
An Equal Opportunity Employer 1
have almost eliminated the 
\
problem this year by charging five 
4111. -.,. 


Women's security group suggests shuttle system, more security guards 
distances; provide squad car sur­veillance of any point on
by Ann Gales 

every half hour; and
Senior Staff Reporter 

staff the escort system.'' 
lt<:.lun••,., Note: This is the last of a "This is a very difficult area to 
deal with," Fulks remarked, "be­
part series discussing pro· 
cause no one seems to want to tell
solutions to the problem of 
em­

security of women on campus. us exactly what the security 
ployee situation is."
third article deals with trans­lnr•rt•ati••n and security personnel. Although he would not disclose an actual number of security per­
Transportation 

sonnel, Dean of Students James Roemer revealed that Security is at its greatest force from 9 p.m. to 7 two suggestions for im-a.m. Roemer said that security lnr"'"'""~nt of campus security in ~en make regular patrols of the area of transportation. THe · mner campus as well as the outer recommended that one, the perimeter and. townhouses during 
or both of their plans be these hours. lim;tituted "In my last three years as dean there have been only three rapes,
First, the group suggested that 
one on-campus and two off, and
University buy a van and 
eight assault and battery cases,"
students to make a con­

Roemer stated.
circle of campus during 

hours. Paula Fulks, one of Director of Security Arthur Pears organizers of SCS, said that the said that Security's ability to meet should make stops at key the requirements established in the on campus including the SCS proposal ''would depend on 
1.v.. uuv•u"''" and women's dorms. the volume of business at the time."''The van could leave the Mem­
Library hourly, pick up stu­Pears commented that he felt the at other major points on escort system was sufficiently staf­such as the Law School and fed, but said that "students , and make a circuit of shouldn't expect Security to drop the women's residence halls and everything right away when they the townhouses," Fulks stated. call for an escort. They should give 
''The van could then patrol the us ten minutes to get there." designated 'nightways' for the 
"All you have to do to get a
remainder ofthe hour," she added. 
walking escort on campus is to call 
An acceptable alternative to Security and tell them your name buying a van, according to SCS, and where the escort should meet would be to change the route of the you," Pears explained. "Then ND-SMC shuttle bus to include give us a few minutes to get a stops at on-campus residences and security guard there, and identify the townhouses. "This would not yourself when he or she arrives." be difficult to do," Fulks comment­
ed, "as only slight changes would At the Hall Presidents Council have to be made on the present meeting held last evening, Anne shuttle bus route." Thompson, Co-education Commit­tee chairperson for student govern-Fulks said that the SCS believed ment, outlined plans for a student the best so~ution to t~e problem of government-sponsored escort ser­transportatton regardmg the secur-vice. The service will be run 
ity ~f w?m:n on campus would be through the Ombudsman and will the mstttutton of both programs. be similar to one started several The Committee to Evaluate Co-years ago by student government. at Notre Dame also Thompson asked the presidents 
•"""mJcu a suggestion for improved of men's dormitories to recruit in the area of transporta-students from their halls to volun­the report on co-education it teer for the program. The Ombud­last May. Associate Provost sman will compile a list of volun­. John Miriam Jones said that the teers escorts, indicating the ID recommended an inves-number, physical description, of a system that would phone number, address and times dates to drive on campus available of each participant. late hours and inclement If a girl needs an escort, she can phone the Ombudsman and leave , with them her name, phone num-. ber, address, physical description 
The final problem area consider-and information as to when and by the SCS in their five-point where the escort is needed. 
• .....n ....n~n concerned security per-The Ombudsman referring to the "This is a big place," list of volunteers, will find an escort commented, "and we feel for the girl and call her back with more security men are needed information that will help her to properly patrol it." identify the escort when he arrives. According to recommendations If no student escort is available, the in the SCS proposal, the Ombudsman will call Security's 
should "increase the escort system. -•: IIIUIIIIIJer of secu~ity em~loyees in According -to Thompson, the I to: estabhsh walkmg patrol program will begin as soon as a list . 
of maximum ten-minute ,of volunteers can be compiled. 
I A Comedy of Errors 
t-, Shakespeare's merry masquerade. October 7, 8, 13, 14, 15
SMC 
THEATRE ata:oo p.m. 
All seats $2.50O'Laughlin {$2 Std-Fac-Staff) Phone: 284-4176

Auditorium 
SEASON TICKETS STILL AVAILABLE...•.••............. 
4 PLAYS $9 ($7 Std-Fac-Staff) Includes: COMEDY Of ERRORS, CAUCA.SIAN CHALK CIRCLE, TOU~H OF A POET, and TH.E 



-
------~----­
Wednesday, October 5, 1977
the observer 


Poor lighting heads list of problems at Carroll 
completely redone which left theMike Ridenour students to do the minor revisionsStaff Reporter 
around the hall. According to McCabe, ''TheEverv hall on the Notre Dame problem is still poor lighting out­campus claims to have its problems side of the hall, since no one comesone way or another. With Carroll 
Hall, the problem is not a claim, near Carroll because of the lack of lighting and also its isolation. The
but a reality. Located in a remote area on campus, near St. Mary's university should do something Lake, Carroll houses 71 students, 
about the lighting around here." of which 55 are freshmen. 
Another problem Carroll faced in In the past, Carroll was a dorm for 
the beginning of the year was the graduate students. This year 
lack of any cohesion among the undergraduates are housed in 
students. "It was difficult." Carroll with the graduate students 
McCabe conceded, "to get things 
being moved to St. Joe's Hall. going with all the freshmen, and With the move Carroll underwent the fact that there was so few upper extensive renovations during the classmen. It was definitely a 
summer and early part of drawback." The problem was September to create "semi-decent compounded since "most of the living conditions," according to upper classmen came from the Chris McCabe, Carroll resident North Quad for a change of assistant. 
scenery and they really didn't know The small number of students in anyone else," McCabe added. Carroll are planning to continue the The problems are being r~solved renovations themselves through a in Carroll, "and the development committee designated for hall im­in the hall is going excellent," provement. "The hall treasury McCabe contended. "There was a 
lacks money but we hope to build it comraderie established in the hall. up and put the money towards With everyone working on the fixing up the dorm," McCabe said. renovations, plus all the freshmen ·'The biggest thing we need is in the hall, there became alot of more lighting surrounding the hall. unity.'' The freshman are being Also the electrical system could be counted on to assume leadership in revamped, since all the rooms have the hall thus "they have had to only one outlet. The students are learn on their own. These fresh­afraid of overloading and all you men will really be independent,'' see are extension cords," McCabe McCabe predicted. The freshmen complained. have coped well with the adverse The university took care of the conditions in Carroll. "They've major renovations in Carroll. The been enthusiastic," McCabe said, walls were painted, the plumbing "but they sometimes get dis­was checked, and the chapel was couraged since no one goes there." 

Steam pipes burst, flood Pangborn basement room 
by Pat Dermody 
"The rug was floating on top of the 
water, ''said Pangborn resident 
John Riley, "That's how deep it 
was.'' According to Riley, the 
flood that occurred early Sunday 
evening in Room 005 if Pangborn 
Hall was just one of several 
problems with the new heating 
system in the basement of Pang­
born. 
The system, installed earlier this 
year, prohibits the residents of the 
basement from regulating the 
temperature of their rooms. Al­
though thermostats have been 
placed in individual rooms, the 
temperature dial is covered by a 
glass plate. Therefore the only way 
a student can control the heat is to 
take the thermostat apart. 
Riley said that although his was 
the only room that flooded due to 
the heating system, other rooms 
have had problems. "One room 
got up to 85 degrees and another 
to 90 degrees the other night,"riley 
continued. Many rooms have been 
plagued by steam leaking from the 
pipes as well. Riley said that about 
two weel.:s his room "turned into a 
sauna." 
Sunday evening, however, 
Riley's room flooded. "We noticed 
a wet spot on the rug sometime 
Sunday afternoon, "he began"but 
we thought something had just 
been spilled. Then when we came 
back after dinner, the whole rug 
was wet " Riley said that he and 
his three roommates called the 
Notre Dame Maintenance Depar­
ment immediately. Maintenance in 
turn called the local South Bend 
company who installed the new 
Griffin to hold Gr·otto Mass 
Fr. Rob'!rt Griffin, The Univer­sity Chaplain, will be the celebrant of a grotto mass at 10 p.m. ThursdP.y the Feast of the Holy Rosary. ·1;1e Glee Club will sing. 
Follow\,lg the mass, everyone is invited t•> ..1 party at Darby's place to eeleb~·tte Darby's (the place, not Fr. Griffin· s faithful companion) third ann'-..ersary. Darby's will open at 11.00 p.m. instead of the usual midnight hour, and short movies will be shown. · 
heating system in Pangborn. 
"The guy was standing right there," explained Riuley, "when all of a sudden the pipe cracked and water started pumping out." Riley added that it was "just like turning a tap on. Diry water just poured 
out." After working on it for about forty minutes, the man from the heating company was able to fix the cracked pipe. By this time how­ever, the rug in the room was "more or less destroyed," accord­ing to Riley, "and so were some paperback books that had been left on the floor." Water had also leaked out into the hall and was, Riley estimated, "about four 
inches deep.'' Father Riehle, rector of Pangborn and University Director of Energy Conservation, was present at the scene of the flood but was unavail­able for comment. Terry Johnson, Pangborn resident assistant said, "evidently, what happened, is that one of the copper pipe fittings broke which was put in for the new 
thermostat system.'' 
While Johnson was reluc­tant to connect the flood directly to the experimental heating system, he did comment that "it happened right at the place where they were doing the work." 
Senior Class to sponsor 
'~semi-formal'' 
The Library Bar will provide the setting for a senior "semi-formal" on Oct. 15, according to Senior Oass President Pat Flynn. 
The cost for the event will be SlO per couple, and will include a flower for the lady, champagne upon entry, and access to an open bar, which will serve beer and any type of mixed drink usually avail­able at the bar. 
Only 150 tickets will be sold for the affair. They will be available in LaFortune lobby tomorrow and Thursday between the hours of 1 pm and 4 pm. 
No one will be admitted without a ticket, and everyone must have a date. Any questions about the 
. event may be directed to Flynn (233-6773) or the other senior class officers: Mary Lou Mulvihill (8067), Tex Keffier (234-0330) and Sue Bailey (7187). 
~----~----------------.,---.---. 

WASHINGTON (AP)-U.S. Dis­trict Judge John J. Sirica ended his long involvement in the Watergate case yesterday by drastically re­ducing the sentences of the biggest fish netted in the scandal. 
He reduced the two andone-half year sentences of John N. Mitchell, 
H.R. Haldeman and John D. Ehrlichman to a period of "not less then one nor more than four years." . 
Ehrlichman, who went to prison without waiting for the outcome of his appeals, thus becomes eligible for parole from his Watergate cover-up conviction after Oct. 28. 
He still is under a 20 month to five year sentence for his conviction in the so-called Watergate plumb­ers case but it was expected the the judge in that case would reduce tha time to conform with that handed out by Sirica. For Haldeman the magic date is June 21 next year and for Mitchell, June 22. 
Sirica made his decision after hearing tape recorded requests for leniency by the three men, and eloquent pleas by their lawyers. 
Sirica was chief judge of the U.S. District court in the District of Columbia when the seven Water­gate burglars were indicted on Sept. 15, 1972. He assigned him1>e Jf to hear their trial and that began an involvement that ended only Tuesday. 
"I'm glad it's the last major decision I'll have to render in this case." he told a reporter before entering court. "It's a long, difficult case, in many respects a sad case. I'm glad to see the end of 
the tunnel."  
There  are  no  more  Watergate  
prosecutions  pending  and  it  is  
expected  that  Sirica  will  soon  

voluntarily take the title of senior judge, which will free him from day to day courtroom responsibilities. He is 73. 
Mitchell, Haldeman, and Erhl­ichman were convicted of cons­piring to cover up White House involvement in the Watergate scan­dal and of lying about it afterward. They fought their conviction and sentences up to the Supreme Court wuhout success and there were no judicial remedies remain­ing other than Sirica's action. 
Uhe
I 
fPit~jammer 
CREATIVE HAIR DESIGN FOR THE SEXES RElAXING 
ATMOSPHERE 
FREE HAIR ANALYSIS RK RETAIL CENTER 

1637 LWW 
So. ~end· 
232-6622 
Appt. enly. 

If Sirica had failed to reduce their sentences their only other recourse would have been intervention by President Carter. 
Ehrlichman, 52, formerly domes­tic couselor to Richard Nixon when he was president, has been in the federal prison camp at Safford, Ariz., since last Oct. 28. Mitchell, 64 who was Nixon's attorney general, went into prison at Max­well Air Force Base in Alabama on June 22 and Haldemn, the Nixon chief of staff, entered the prison facility at Lompoc, Calif., the day before. 

Tonig tis Foxy Lady Night! 
• 
$ 100 Cash to the Foxiest Lady 

• 
WRBR's R. C. Rogers 

• 
Prizes 

• 
Surprises 


SBULJrS 
ITITI CLUB 
On U.S. 31 between Niles and South Bend-Free Parking-Ph. 683·4350 
CONTINUOUS ENTERTAINMENT FROM 9 P.M. TILL 2 A.M. 
ARE YOU SURE YOU KNOW WHAT FAMILY PLANNING IS ALL ABOUT?
-
If you think it means preventing unwanted pregnancy .. you're partly right. But it means more than that. Like counseling young people about how a baby before they are ready can affect their health or mess up their lives ... helping couples who want to have children but can't ... counseling men on male responsibility and methods of birth control 
It's important to know ALL about family planning ... it means more than you may have thought. 
For information or help, contact the fam11y planning clinic in your community, your local health department or your own physician. 
U.S. DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH. 
EDUCATION, AND WELFARE 
Public Health Service 
Wednesday, October 5, 1977 the observer 
Purpose unclear 
Building insurance unaffected by residents 
by Kathleen Connelly Many of those who are aware of ance rates, but such rates are no that building. In addition, all aid, "There are different policies Staff Reporter this fact believe that it is for longer applicable. students are to some extent respon­with different sets of circum­insurance purposes. Mr. Charles "Because of the expansion of sible for security in their building. stances." Next year, if the housing. 
There are students living in Reddy, insurance officer for the campus facilities, the University So far there have been no real situation involves a job, which is many of the non-residential build­University said that this is not the receives a composite rate that is not security problem for any of the generally the case, applicants will ings on campus including the ACC, case. At one time, Reddy stated, designed to take occupancy into students interviewed, "although have to be approved by financial the fieldhouse and the Architecture occupancy of the buildings may consideration,'' Reddy added. last year at the ACC," Danik said, aid on the basis of need. building. · have had a small effect on insur-Residents of these buildings do "someone broke in and turned on The usual procedure of billing for 
not pay for their rooms directly but the fire hoses on the catwalks. the rooms is to bill students and certain services are required of the Danik also commented on the then credit their accounts forSMC seniors to vote students selected for the positions. fact that "there seem to be about 8 housing in the building. Food The work generally consists of different financial aid policies for services are not included in the 
opening and locking the building employment of students and that arrangement.
and other duties pertaining to the the overall selection is not consis­Bill Mitchell, a fifth year arch-­
function of the building. For tent while the process itself is itecture student who lives in the delegate to the Joint Commission example, Drew Danik and Dave unclear. Architecture building, constructed on Environmental Protection in Marzak who live at the ACC are Presently, hiring is done directly a kitchenette to take the place of 
on commencement speaker 
by Sue BaUmann Moscow in 1974 and to the Interna­asked to perform various services by the supervisor of the building thedininghall services, and several tional Women's Year in Mexico at all official ACC events. Mike or, as in the case of the Architec­other students have full size refrig­On Thursday, Oct. 6, St. Mary's 
City in 1975. Clusen frequently Murphy, a second year law student ture building, by the department erators in their rooms.
seniors will be given an opportunity 
testifies on Capitol Hill in behalf of who lives in Stepan Center sets up head. Mitchell, who previously lived into vote for a commencement speak­human resources, energy, and the P.A. equipment for functions in Mr. John Plouff, managing di­Holy Cross. Hall said that heer. 
quality of the environment. Her rector of the ACC indicated that doesn't miss dorm life except for numerous activities have earned financial aid has in the past had the social aspect it provides. 
The voting process will take 
her the title "Doer of the Decade" in selection Mike said he
place in the lobby of Le Mans from some say the of Murphy that 
by a group of professional women. SMC allocates potential occupants of the ACC doesn't spend much time at9 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. and will 
apartment, but that the final dec­Stepan, "because I'm usuallycontinue in the dining hall on the Carla Hills is a practicing lawyer ision was his. studying at the Law School, but it'sLe Mans side from 4:30 to 6 p.m. who was previously a professor of club funds The reason for the confusion on not bad. the only real problems"l.D.'s and a graduating senior law at the University of California/ hiring policy is that there is no he continued, "are that I have to go 
status are required to vote. by Christine Simony 
Los Angeles. Other professional 
central control ofthe non-dormitory to Planner or Grace for a shower,positions include membership 
on residences. Starting neXt year, and my room is pretty small."
The speaker selection process The allocation of funds to several
the Executive Commitee of Yale
began last spring with a student Law School and Assistant Attorney college clubs and organizations was however, financial aid will be the When asked about his parietal
unifying element in hiring.
poll. Names were also submitted the central concern on the Oct. 3 situation, Mike Murphy stated that
General in the Department of
by members of the faculty and agenda of the Saint Mary's Student According to Mrs. June "it would seem to me that if
Defense. In 1975, Hiii was McCauslin, of
administration to the Academic Assembly. director financial someone can be entrusted with the
appointed Secretary for Housing
Council which formed a subcom­The proposed budgets of nine care of a building that he should be
and Urban Development.
mittee to review the suggestions. clubs requesting financial assis­mature enough to know how to
Pre-IVIed smoker 

Members of the subcommittee Ada Louise Huxtable has been tance for the 1977-78 school year conduct himself." • included Mrs. Rosemary Doherty, an architecture critic for the new from Student Assembly were pre­Dean Roemer, who hires stu­dean of freshmen, Dr. Anthony york times and is generally acknow­sented and voted on. next Tuesday dents for Washington Hall and the Black. Faculty Assembly chairman, ledged as the most outstanding Student Body President Mary fieldhouse, said that students are Mary Rukavina, Student Body American critic in that field. She Rukavina expressed considerable subject to the same rules and
The first Pre-Med Club Smoker president, and Nancy Mogab, sen­has received numerous honors and concern for the fair distribution of regulations as dorm residents in­
will be held October 11, in the ior class president. The subcom­awards for her work including one funds and stated that the Student cluding policy on alcohol and
basement of the Knights of Colum­mittee narrowed the list to twenty­from the National Trust in 1970, the Assembly allocated as much as the parietals.
bus Building. Faculty and students are encouraged to attend starting
five names and returned it to the Pulitzer Prize for distinguished budget would permit. She would Mr. Plouff of the ACC said that Academic Counce! which limited criticism in 1971, and honorary not, however, disclose any exact at 9:00 p.m. Libation and suste­he is a little bit stricter than usual the number to ten. degrees from more than a dozen with his students because "in the
nance will be provided free offigures. 
charge. Ping-Pong, Pool, and Dr.
colleges and universities. Each club was examined indivi­past we have had to ask students to 
Two major factors taken into H. Bender's soft-shoe will be some stay elsewhere," because of cer­
dually and was awarded assistance
Ethel Skakel Kennedy is the wife
consideration in the selection of the of the featured attractions. tain indiscretions. 
on the basis of other funds re­
of the late Senator Robert F.
candidates are the possibility of his 
ceived, goals, ability to demon­
Kennedv. She attended Manhat­coming to the College and his 
strate genuine interest in maintain­
tanville-College of the Sacredspeaking ability. In addition, 
ing itself, and size of membership.
Heart and is involved in severalbecause the graduation speaker 
Clubs receiving funds included
types of volunteer work. 
receives an honorary degree, he 
the World Hunger Coalition, the 
must uphold the standards of the Juanita is United Volunteers, Saint
Kreps the Contact theCollege. The College follows a States' Secretary of Commerce. At Mary's Mission Program, thespecific set of guidelines .in choos­Duke University, she held the Neighborhood Study Help Pro­

ing a candidate for an honorary position of professor, assistant gram, Nursing Club, Business 
e to Where the Krunch Is!
degree. The candidate must have provost, and vice-president; a post Club, Law Society, and the Crew 
. ­

demonstrated extraordinary and she held when called -to Washing­Team.extended service to the College, or 
FISH & CHIPS LEMON LUV (dessert}
ton by President Carter~ Kteps Decisions involving allocationsoutstanding contributions to Catho­
was formerly a member of the for WSND and the recently estab­
SHRIMP~

lic education, or exemplification of board of directors of the New York 
lished Psychology Club were tabled 
DRINKS -PEPSI
those qualities which the College 
Stock Exchange. until a later date. 
CHICKEN

seeks to foster in its graduates, or 
distinguished artistic orscholarly Thomas O'Fiach (pronounced accomplishments, or outstanding O'Fee) is the Archbishop of Ar­achievement in public affairs. Magh and Roman Catholic Primate 
of all Ireland. Previous positions 
The following is the list of include those of Professor of His­condidates for commencement tory and Chairman of St. Patrick's speakers in alphabetical order: College, Maynooth, Ireland Pro­
gram.
Joseph A. Califano, Jr., secre­
tary of Health, Education, and James Schlesinger is the head of Welfare. He attended Holy Cross the newly formed Department of 
College where he graduated with Energy. In addition to graduating an AB in 1952 and received an LLB 
summa cum laude and Phi Beta . 
in 1955 from Harvard. Califano Kappa, Schlesinger also earned his was a special -assistant to the advanced degrees at Harvard. In Secretary of Army from 1962-1963, previous administrations, he has to the Secretary of Defense from served as Secretary of Defense, 1964-1965, and to the President of Director of the Bureau of the the United States from 1965-1969. Dudget, and Assistant Director of He is a member of the Board of the the Office of Management and 

HAIR FASHIONS 
Child Welfare League and the Budget.
Corporate Board of Children's Hos­pital. Califano's awards include Kurt Waldheim is the Secretary­
To~ )W 1o wr rew ~ 
the Distinguished Service Medal of General of the United Nations. the Department of Defense and the After receiving his doctor of juris­
Sam we dfer }OJ tree 
VeEy Distinguished Service Award: prudence degree at the University of Vienna, he prepared for his 
l{osalyn Carter has worked 
present post by a career in the 
SALE PRICES!
towards the improvement of feder­Austrian Foreign Office. There he al mental hea'th services and was 
on nationally advertised instrumental in President Carter's became Austria's permanent rep­
resentative to the U.N. in 1964. Hecreation of the President's Com­has been awarded numerous hon­
Permanent Waves 
mission on Mental Health. Mrs. 
orary degrees from universities in 
(all includ~ sl!ampo~, set and shaping)
Carter has also worked for the every part of the world. 

passage of the Equal Rights When the results of the voting 
Tues: & Wed. 8 :30 AM to 5 :30 PM
Amendment and will attempt to 
,Reg. 23.50 Perm --Now 14.50
are received, letter will be writtenhelp the aged. She intends to 
Thurs. & Fri. 8:30 AM to 8 :30 PM revitalize "volunteerism" through 
to the prospective speakers in order 
of the indicated preference. Thesuch agencies as the Peace Corps, actual commencement speaker 
IReg. 35.00 Perm Now 19.50
VISTA. and Foster Grandoarents. 
c;hould be known by December. 
233-8471'
{!ni Perm Reg. 35.00-Now 25.00
Ruth Clusen is President of the Mogab urged all seniors to vote 
~~~o Rue dC~ Ville, Parte Jefferson, Frenctl
LeagueofWomen Voters. In 1972, and stressed that most colleges and she was a UN delegate to the universities do not allow students a Conference on the Human Environ­voice in the selection of a com­ment in Stockholm. She was a U.S. mencement speaker. 

}</11f1;, I,,~ -.,., .  )t/lllj,;,  I -,1 .  lJTSPOSABtE DOUCHE  FEMALE BOX:  
'  
EARTHBORN®SHAMPOO  
GILLETTE TRAC II®  
KOTEX® TAMPONS  
CERTS®  
MASSENGILL  
VICKS® NYOUIL®  
MIDOL®  
MALE BOX:r  
BRUTT 33  

Wednesday, October S, 1977
the observer 
Carter says SALT pact in sight 
(AP)-President Jimmy Carter told the United Nations yesterday that a new strategic arms limitation agreement between the United States and the Soviet Union is in sight. 
He also said the United States will be willing in some future treaty to cut its nuclear arsenal in half. 
"Peace will not be assured until the weapons of war are put away," the President said. 
After his speech, the President 
Walsh named course evaluation booklet editor 
Mark Perry Staff Reporter 
Scholastic editor Kathleen Mc­Elroy has selected Maureen Walsh to be the editor of the course evaluation booklet which Scholastic will be printing this semester. McElroy said that the books should be distributed to students in early November. 
Walsh, who presented the pro­posal to the Student Government Board of Commissioners to obtain $1500 for the production of the booklet, said that editors will be selected for each department in the Universtiy to gather course de­scriptions from professors, and solicit evaluations of the course and 
teacher  from  students.  
"Each  professor  will  fill  in  a  
description  form,"  Walsh  said,  

"noting work loads for their course, number of tests, books required, attendance policies, and other information about their class," added Walsh. 
"For courses offered both se­esters," Walsh continued, "stu­dents currently enrolled in these courses will be asked to evaluate the course and the professor, including comments on lecturing style, availability, fairness, and any other comments they might want to offer." For courses only offered in the second semester, students who took the course last year will be asked for their opinions. Walsh added that courses offered this semester will also be evaluated to be included in a booklet which should be made in the spring. 
Walsh said that both the editors and students who are evaluating courses will be majors in the particular department. Further­more, the editors will try to get judgement of the courses and professors. 
Anyone who would be interested in serving as an editor, student evaluator, and would like to help in the production of the booklet should call the Scholastic office at \500 
Day of Renewal sponsored by prayer group 
A Day of Renewal sponsored by the Notre Dame-St. Mary's and The Queen of Peace charismatic prayer communities will be held this Sunday, Oct. 9, at the Queen of Peace parish hall in Osceola. The afternoon's activities will last from I :30-7:30 p.m. and all interested people are invited to attend. 
The day will consist of a series of talks and discussions and will be concluded with Mass and dinner. The purpose of a day of renewal is to provide a pleasant and informal setting in which a person can further explore his role as a member of the Christian commun­ity and in doing so, strengthen his commitment to Christ. 
There will be cars leaving from the library circle at 1 p.m. on Sunday to provide transportation for all those who need it. A small· donation is asked to cover the cost of the meal, but no one should hesitate to come because of lack o~ funds. Anyone interested in learn-j ing more about the day should call Fr. O'Connor (7651), Emily (6825) or Leslie (6792). 
turned his attention to the Middle 
East and received what he des­
cribed as a "positive" message 
from Egyptian President Anwar 
Sadat. 
The president refused to divulge 
the message from Sadat, which was 
delivered to Carter by Egyptian 
Foreign Minister Ismail Fahmy. 
However, Egypt is known to be 
concerned about an expanded 
Soviet role in the quest for a Middle 
East settlement and the absence so 
far of explicit U.S. support for a 
Palestinian state. 
Carter told Fahmy that ''if we can just keep the Arabs and Israelis moving in the right direction, we can see peace come." 
A key White House adviser told reporters the administration "anti­cipates a very difficult Geneva conference" and that it might even recess in discord. 
Carter's speech to the United Nations was termed by Oleg Jroyanovsk_v. the Soviet Ambass­ador to the U.N., as satisfactory. 
"On the whole, it was a well­balanced speech but there was nothing new in the U.S. position," he said. 
A lower-ranking Soviet represen­tative said the absence of any reference to human rights-Carter's major theme when he addressed the United Nations last spr.ing-was a "victory" for the Russians. 
British Ambassador Ivor Richard said he felt Carter "gave a major push to controlling proliferation of nuclear weapons and arms control." 
The President's announcement that an arms agreement is in sight was a turnaround from his earlier statements. 



,~~·~.t eueen's (astlt 
54533Ten-ace Lane 277-1691 Tues. and Wed -1 0:30am-6:30 Thurs. and Fri. -8:30 am -8:30 Sat. -8:30 am-5:00 pm Closed Monday 
ALL THESE PRODUCTS FOR A $1.29 RETAIL 
,·mra?Tc 

~l :::.~.~.::~~~~.if.I 
LISTERMINT® GILLETTE TRAC II® VICKS® NYOUIL® WILLIAM'S LECTRIC SHAVE CERTS® 

If you price each brand you'll find that the retail price of Brut 33 ($1.75) alone exceeds our suggested retail price of $1.29. In the Female box a 4 oz. bottle of Earth Born Shampoo normally retails for $1.00. 
Available at Notre Dame Bookstor 
Carter had said only last week that there was no immediate prospect for a new weapons treaty with the Russians despite "some further progress." The President also had said after a White House meeting last week with Soviet Foreign Minister Adrei A. Gromyko that he wouldn't be "optimistic" about an early settlement. 
U.S. officials said some major differences had been resolved in talks which Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance held here with Gromyko. But they said there are other differences remaining to be resolved by negotiations in Geneva. 
The President was accorded a 
standing ovation as he entered the United Nation's hall for the second time since taking office. He read from a prepared! text and affirmed "the great trust" the United states continues to hold in the United Nations. 
He devoted much of his speech to arms control. 
"If we are to have any assurance that our children are to live out their lives in world that satisfies our hopes or that they will have a chance to live at all-we must finally come to terms with this enormous force and turn it to beneficial ends." 
On another subject, he called on Israel to respect the ''legitimate rights" of Palestinians. 
Carter told the General Assembly, whose Arab and Communist blocs weigh heavily against Israel, that the U.S. commitment to Israel's security is "unquestionable." And he said Israel is entitled to borders that are recognized and secure. 
At the same time, Carter said "for Nations which now have the the Arabs, the legitimate rights of capacity to export nuclear fuels and the Palestinians must be technologies have a solemn obli­reco~nized." -· gation, Carter said, "to ensure that 
A JOint U.S.-Soviet communique nothing we export contributes over the weekend, endorsing "legi­directly or indirectly to the produc­timate rights of Palestinians,'' has tion of nuclear explosives.' worried Israel and deepened dif­He said the United States was ferences between it and the United prepared to join with other nuclear States. nations to ban all test explosions, 
As for Africa, Carter said his peaceful or military, and has begun administration supports a peaceful, to restrain its export of conven­rapid transition to black rule in tional arms. Zimbawe-using the African name The President wound up his for Rhodesia. And he said the speech with a pledge on behalf of United States supports indepen­the United States never to use dence for Namibia-the African nuclear weapons "except in self­name for South-West Africa. "I defense." have heard it said that efforts to He defined this as circumstances control nuclear proliferation are of an actual nuclear or conventional futile," Carter said, "that the attack on the United States, its genie is already out of the bottle. I territories or armed forces, or its do not believe this to be true." allies. 
Sir Victor's Discount Liquor 


413 Hickory Rd. S. Bend 
Beer Specials 
QUARTS: BUSCH 5.99 case STROH'S 6.25 case 
CANS: STROH'S 120z 5.19 case FALSTAFF 12 oz. 4.79 case 
Lowest Beer Prices in Town! 
Special Uquor Discounts to NO -SMC students Call ahead for quantity orders -288-9731 

NOTICE LOST: black leather wallet.. Need License Wanted: Six GA tickets to USC. Call and other ID. Reward, call Robert, 1465. Jeanne at 4-4001. 

an't skate? Try Broom ball. 18 brooms Wanted: 4 GA tickets for Southern Cal. 
Classified Ads
rovided. lcerlnk, 8416. Found: GRACE Hall President. Willing Will pay good bucks. Call 1423, ask for _-----------------~~~~ Mike. 
tudent or grad student with wrestling -------7'----------Pandora's has new and used books for Ann "Schmldtay" xperience to coach high school wrestling WANTED Wanted: 5 USC tickets. Call Paul at 1424. many NO classes and, a two for one sale 1 mean to say .... Buzzard Day In earn-Contact Mike Nolanat LaLumiere . . .. -:-------------7'---on their literature books. Open 11 to 7 Hinckley Ohlol chool. Phone 362-2248, or 324-7069 . Need SIX GA Clemson tickets. Call Leo, Will pay $$$ for 2 GA Georgia Tech.daily The Mental Ward Strikes Again I 
-----------------287-7051 tickets. Mark 8927. · -----------------­ccurate, fast typing. Mrs. Donoho,----·--------------------------------TicKETsFORSALE:-T-;;G"A'S;;k;tt;;ii Margaret A-ok, 32-0746. Hours, 8 am to 6 pm. Two student ~SC tickets. Will pay$. Will pay $$$ for 2 GA GA USC Tlx. tickets; for best offer. Call Greg, 1159. Thanks for Friday night. You helped me 
-----------------Call Suzy or D1ane, 5148. Mark, 8927. ------------------to relax and smile In a long, long time. 
U. of Mich._ grad student in Russi~n W! 11 -------------.------:--------:---------:--Head professional tennis racket. Less M uto,r Russ1an students. Studied 1n Need six Southern Cal t1x. Mark Will t~ade 2 USC t1x for two Army t1x. than one year old with new gut strings, -----------------­
Leningrad. Call ~83-43~2. or 233-9948 287-7051. Call L1z, 4-4708. new leather grip cover included. Call The birthday gang Is celebrating at nd ask for Melanie Lew1s. ------------------------------------_ Kublaks on Thursday night. Belated
283 8619
-----------------Want$$$-Need So. Cal. vs. N D football NEED RIDE TO IOWA [I-80WEST] ____·______________ birthday and capping kisses will be given. NEED QUALITY TYPING? Executary, tix Oct. 22-Sport's Tour at 3050 W. 7th OCT.7 or 14. SHARE EXPENSES. -----------------­Inc. Professional Typing Service IBM Street. LA Calif., 90005. Call 213-384-LINDA 4-5791. Sandy-Identifier of the famous SCHLE-Correctlng Selectrlcs. 85 cents per page. 1951. Could also use 4 tix for any home ------------------PERSONALS FERE (?) plant in 2-north Kennan. I'd minimum. Call 232-0898, "When yoL game. Needed: 3 Army tickets (preferably like to talk with you again. Joe-3262.• want the best." ------------------together). Call John before Oct. 11. -----------------­
-----------------Desperately need 1 USC ticket. Call 6827. · Mike J-0-H-N R-0-D-0-C-K EXPERIENCED TYPIST ......for more in-4-4101. ------------------Hey ;, .. . . k' .. tt .. Blow a big one on your 21st.
11

formation please call 272-2819. ------------------Ardently seeking 2 USC tix for rah-rah Are your Roots stl PIC '"2 c~ ~r Your Harem.
1

--------:-------7'---Halplll1-5 girls desperately need ride to parents. Call Lugey, 4-4259. --------------~-~~ -----------------­Bus service to Chicago-every Fnday this Michlgan State Oct. 7, will pay all ------------------T M nchkan th ·stanford Call Michael!!! (See wanteds for details). 
4

semester. Buses arrive at circle at 5:05. expenses. Call Anna, 7974. Need tix for any home game. Will pay. 0H u, • b th-llf 7 ' Thanks for -----------------­For ticket and Info call Shep, 8330. -:---.---------:----;--Call1276. S t ~:as :logu:t r:: weraatha best. Will Debbie Darnley Make House Calls? ------------------Will be disowned by parents 1f I don t get------------------au Y • Y -----------------­Absolutely the biggest Junior League 2 USC tix. Will pay$$$$$. Call Greg at Desperately need 2-3 tickets for Georgia Regards, Oz. Congratulations Deb, You sure deserve 
Thrift Shop Sale ever. St. Joseph County 1217. Tech. Ann 6915. TL___dN-----------it! Fairground, Sat., Oct. 8, 9 am to 4:30pm.------------------------------------o arry an ancy:. -----------------­
11

Over 30,000 items, new and used Wanted-SC tickets. Will pay premium. Please Help! I Dasperatley need ride to Congrats and best WIShes .. All myJove, Deb, Now that you're in, you can start clothing, furniture, toys, housewares, Call collect 714-498-3000. St. Louis-Southern Illinois area Friday, Mary arg. working on your bedside manner. plants and bake shops, Master Charge------------------Oct. 'T. Will pay, drive. Call Julia 8527. -----------------------------------­and Visa cards accepted. Free parking, Need ride to and from West Lafdeyette ------------------SueT.~ . They've arrlvedl Tach's Ravlaw's &alan­free admission. Fri. Oct 7 and Sun Oct. 9. Call Bob, 8920. My dad hasn't been here for .25 years. Your JUSt fl~~~~~tirim.ps of LeMans Hall dar of girls of ND and SMC. On sale In ------------------------------------PLEASE need one GA USC ticket. Call halls this weak. NEED RIDE TO DAYTON, OHIO THIS I need two GA's for the Navy game. John Mark 8918. -----------:------:;-------------------­WEEKEND [OCT. 7]. PLEASE CALL 1184, call after 6 pm. ------------------Does 125 Keenan glow In the dark. To Stanford Lunatics KATHY AT 4-4635. ------------------So. Cal. vs NO football tickets Oct. 22-------:-----.-d--ND~S-B Thanks for the home away from home. ------------------Need 1-5 USC GA tickets. Good Money. Sport's Tour 3050 W. 7th Street, L.A., Gay com,munlty at NO QUI e to · · Honorary residents of the Ward Experienced ministrels. Serenading a Call Kevin 8713. Calif. 90005, 213-384-1951. Will pay$$. Pandora s or box 206, NO -----------------­specialty. Call Ringo and Jester, 8243. ------------------Also could use 4 tix for any home game. ------.--,-N---fii--FI-;d Debbie,
01 8

------------------Desperately need 3 or 4 tickets to USC------------------Gay commumty 0 n °na r · Thanks. No swim. Taking Lewis formal game (call 287-8479) You name the T_wo need ride to Cleveland Oct. 7. Call ~::.!~2_!~_!,!!~---------applications?
11
LOST AND FOUND ~~e..:.::_ ______________ ~~~~:._ _____________ Slava Convencla, Dig-oat-say to my way-------------.. ___!~~ Need 2-6 GA tickets for Tech or So Cal Helpl Make two girls happy· give 'em a once more Nov. 4. C'mon guys. · Lawlsslo's 
. · · . · · Th Stan, Slade &Czar f f d d
LOST·' 1 Econ and 1 Criminology game. Call T1m at 1133. nde to Toledo area October 7. erese ------------------Open this Friday at 7 pm Ina oo an b00. k · N th o· · H 11 If t d ------------------6239 G h? entertainment Phone 3735 for reserve-
note . In or lnlng a · oun Need ride to Davenport Iowa, or as far __:.________________ Hey Oil 1on ... ot a mate · tlons-Info. · 
ca~~m~~~.:_ ___________ west on 1-80 as_ possible. To leave Friday, Needed: 1-4 tlx for Army game. Call Heym~;_-y~;-blg"7;d7a'Qh;~;;;;t; -:---:--------------­FOUND: One big red flag, Saturday on Oct. 7th, anyt1me around noon or later. Maria 1318. last period D1ane P1c, . the Green field near Dillon kegger. Call Call Terry 1684. ------------------Love Grace Congratulations for your pop in the 
------------------· bathroom ~~:..._ _______________ Need ride to Washlng~o.n DC area for HELP . . . . An-;;-;;;;;j;B-;b;.----------Love, Annie M & Annie T. LOST· Green raincoat with 10 at party on break. Will share$$-dnv1ng. Call Marty Need nde to Boston or VICinity for Oct. H B' thd k'd Sorry but 1don't--:----------------:
1

· · F 'd · ht c 11 K th _8389. break. Must know before Oct. 8. Call app.y lr ~Y · · _A smcere thank you to my "personal'
St. LOUIS n ay nlg · a a Y ------------------John 6657. Will share expenses. have time to think of something funny friend. You had me worrying all weekend ~~_:~~:..._ ____________ Need 3 USC tickets, GA or Student. Cal------------------have to go to class. The gang, K.M.D. but you're as sweet as your message .. LOST: Irish wedding ring (Ciaddagh Jerry, 8461. Wan,ted: 2 GA Navy tlx fo~ rarents. You------------------FrelghtTra1n ring), jade and diamond with gold band. THENAVv-GAME-:-wh;-;;-;d;ti'ckets ~~ here -they WII · Call Bot Ha~py Birthday Lynchy! I'd love to do It De;rsiii~------------­
3°4n_ 0t68b2 
~~~~~~~~~:._~~~..:_ ____ for the navy game? 1 do!!!! 2 GA tickets. ------------------agam. SueS From Digs and Barbs to Kudos and LOST: Genetics textbook. Please call Call Martha 1715, 8086. USC st~dent or GA tlx ~anted. Wesy ___________________:Kisses I never said I didn't love you. _ --------.-----:-----coast clients will pay prem1um. 272-7360 -----------------­
289 0175 . 319 
-----------------Wanted-4 U~C tickets. W1ll pay good after 6 pm. H ppy 211t ..... 541. Ed; . . 
LSOT: Brown leather wallet In Eng. Aud. bucks. Call Jim at 1419. -------------------~----------------1am still waiting for your lnv1tat1on lo Need Drivers llscense and ID for football-------------:-----Desperately need three GA tickets for Lehh our Senior Formal. Your Mexican drives games. Please return, call 3506. Need two Southern Cal tlx. Beth Tech game. Bob 8405 · • ou gained two this weekend ... now Its me crazy! 
-----------------272-2340. ---7'-------------C-1110 ~ Chris. LOST: Umbrella, brown and off-white. ----:---------------Need tlx for any home game. a · Love ya, CTC -----------------­Call John, 1848 (around midnight). Needed. 5 GA tlx for USC game. Call Sharon, 1261. ------------------Mark H. 
-----------------Telana .. .4·5745· ------------------Wea'el· Love and kisses from your cross Is April 6 right?
LOST· One SMC cis------------------20 reps sought tor Freshman Class t ·T k' , h K class iing initials CFH 78. Reward. I WIL.L BE FOREVER GRATE.FUL TO ~ouncll Election.s. Nominations happen-coun ry rue m e-man. Beaupy -----------------__: 4_5143. Cathy. · ~OU 1f you will sell me a pa1r of GA 1ng now. QuestiOns? Call Marla-5774. ------------------Dear Dillon ------------------t1ckets for the USC game. My parents------------------WANTED· 4 Holida Inn vagrants with What fools we are. We will make FOUND: On sidewalk, 1976 Holy Cross want to c~me and cheer for Old Notre Addresser~ wanted l~madlatalyl Wor_~ Jakuzi-Jet' marks ald sauna burns all RESTI!UTION. Preparatory class ring. Call Denise Dame. Will pay$$$$$. Call Mary, 1313. at home no expenence .necessar~ th 1 bod' Grace Hall 
'------------------excellent pay. Write Amencan Serv1ce, over e r 1es.
4 5402 
· · Wanted: One student USC ticket. Call 8350 Park Lane, Suite 269, Dallas, TX -A------t----------­
-------------------nnouncemen · 
LOST: One set of keys at or near ~h~~~-~..'~:_6..:_ ___________ :.:~~---------------Orlo and French are available if any LaFortune Student Center on Thurs. Call If you have a USC ticket to sell call Need rides for two to Muncie Friday or young ladies consider then bearable! Bill 233-3743. M · h 1 ( if d 't h tl k t t S t d h 8407 -----------------­
------------------1c ae even you on ave a c e o a ur ay; s are. . It' 0 K S th 8 d rs You can rest easy
" 1054 
?
FOUND: Men's leather jacket. Call sell, call Michael) · -------------------no~. ~~nven~~ eOrlo Trenchmouth, 
~:..~:~_:n~~~~~--------Se;;;i;;;;;;;-;;;~-;;-;~~-;1-;; Himes, ~nd Lani have suspended ef~orts work This is not door-to-door contact to terrome the South Bend commun1ty. 
•
LOST: an Economics notebook Sunday M' ·Edd' h K . ht ·2 0312 -----------------­
27
night at Stepan Center. Sept., 25. Must ISS le at t e mg --or FOR SALE Shirley: have-call John, 1776. ~.:_~~:..______________ Cut that screen! 
'fou'ND:'P';!r~'f~j;'-;h;;;-;t-the-DT Desperate: Need up to 6 USC tickets· will For sale· Alto sax mint Gibson Heritage ---------------!~~ section party of Morrissey Friday night. pay excellent price. Call Frank, 277"2576 with case. Best 'offer for either. Call WANTED: Date for Alumni Formal. 
_,
Call 3414. w~t;;i);p.;is'tei;;;;;dBGAtlxto~;; 288-3706. Preferably brunette, 5'2" Italian (please­------------------1 Ch · t 1 58 ------------------no mustaches) between 100-110 lb~
LOST: black leather wallet In ACC, home game. Ca 1 ns a 1 · AUDIO OUTLET warm understanding, no morals, be-personal items are Important to owner. Ne-;d4usC-GAticl;;t;-"Wiii"P;;y$~;ii Top name stereo equipment wholesale. tween' 4 and 40 years old. Call Rob at Please return to owner, call 3116. Ron 1423. · • Call 7781. \1197. 
-~-~-__,.....~------=--------------...----,-..,.­
Wednesday, October 5, 1977 
Senate votes to lift price controls 
W ASBINGTON (AP)-The Senate voted yesterday to lift price controls from newly discovered natural gas, rejecting President Jimmy Carter's proposal for contin­ued regulation of the scarce fuel. 
Breaking a two and one-half week deadlock, the Senate ap­proved the deregulation proposal by a SO to 46 vote, then went on to pass the overall natural gas bill by voice vote. 
A House-Senate conference com­mittee now must decide the final form the bill will take. The House passed acomprehensiveenergy bill in August that contained the Pres­ident's proposal for continued price controls. 
In New York, White House Press Secretary Jody Powell quoted Pres­ident Carter as terming the Senate legislation "unacceptable" and de­claring "I will not· sign an unfair bill." 
"It is an injustice to the working people of this country. . . " the President said. "I hope and expect that a reasonable bill will emerge from the conference committee and be approved by both houses. 
"I look forward to signing legis­lation that provides adequate pro­duction incentives while protecting the interests of American con­sumers. I will not sign an unfair bill." 
Deregulation would increase gas prices, with the cost of immediately deregulated gas rising at a faster rate than that remaining under federal price controls. The Senate bill contains a clause that would require gas pipelines to give home­owners the first chance to buy the cheaper gas still under government price controls. 
Under the Senate's deregulation measure, there would be a lid on prices of new gas of about 52.48 per thousand cubic feet for the next two years until controls are removed. The price limits would be removed from newly discovered onshore gas after two years and from offshore gas after five. 
Natural gas, which has increased four fold in price since 1973, is now unregulated· if used in the states where it is produced, but controlled under a $1.46 ceiling when shipped in interstate pipelines. 
Carter, and the House, want to end this du8J market by extending controls to the intrastate markets while lifting the price lid to $1.75 for newly discovered gas. 
The Senate's action was a major setback to Carter's energy program But it was expected after three previous trial votes showed dereg­ulation forces had the upper hand. The Senate passed a similar decon­trol measure in 1975, but it failed by four votes in the House. 
The vote came a day after a filibuster against deregulation col­lapsed. Both those who wanted to continue price controls and those who wanted them lifted had sought an end to the ftlibuster, which ti~d up Senate business for 13 days. 
.Malvezzi, Helen Weber, and 
''freshmen Maggie Lally and Kathy 
. Merra. Lally took top honors for the Irish as she finished the 5000 meter course in a time of 19:02. 
The team is presently looking for spring and distance coaches for the spring season in addition to any new members who wish to partici­pate. Anyone interested should contact HotvMt. 
the obse~er 
Women s cross-country 
. The Irish women placed fifth in the Golden Triangle Cross Country Classic held at Eastern Michigan University last Saturday, the first .cross country race run by Notre Dame women. 
The cross country squad is an outgrowth of the women's track team and is supervised by Wlmlen's Athletic Director Astrid Hotvedt. The group presently consists of six women; Barb Boy­lan, a fifth year architecture stu­dent, juniors Liz Berry, Adelia 
----~--~~--~----~------~----~~--------------------------~--~------~------~----------~-----­
. 

Soccer and Baseball are victorious 
--~-~ ~--......------------~-~-~ ~ ~.~­
8 
the observer Wednesday, October 5, 1977 

Soccer stops Baseball beats Goshen Bradley 
by Monte Towle by Craig Chval Sports Writer Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame varsity soccer .... Notre Dame baseball coach Dr. program took another giant step , . . ' Tom Kelly often speaks of the fall forward Tuesday. The Irish defeat­season's dual-purpose--to provide ed a highly-rated Goshen team 3-1 1 experience for his players in antic­in the sunshine on the field behind ipation of next spring's schedule,
·;~·)
Stepan Center. For Coach Rich and to win ballgames. Hunter and his hooters, the victory i\). '=,j'J , Thanks to a three-run fifth inning was the sixth in a row and edged and Joe Leahy's five-hit pitching, Notre Dame even closer to consid­Friday the Irish had their cake and eration for an NCAA Division II ate it, too when they defeated
~''I'
playoff berth come November. : .,.,.. Bradley University 3-l. They now stand at 6-1-1 on the Leahy spotted the Braves an year. Not bad for a team in its first unearned run in the second inning year as a varsity sport. before slamming the door for the
With 'heads up' plays and solid teamwork, the soccer team has put together a six game
"We really wanted this win rest of the way. He struck out two
winning streak. The soccer team is undefeated since it received varsity status.
badly because Goshen is an excel­and didn't walk a batter while 
Hagerty scored on a penalty kick at as he stood alone in front of the and fullback Jim Rice insisted. "We did a lot of work this past '·He was able to realize the things 
30:30 thanks to a Goshen hand ball Irish net. For the afternoon, Notre "He has really psyched us up this summer in getting the team he was doing wrong while he was year and has gotten us into the best ready," Hunter explained. "Be­
in the penalty area. Finnegan Dame outshot their opponets, 17-out there, and he corrected them. 
3-0 a physicai condition that we've ever I think have greater
made it by heading in 16. sides, we a That's what we've.got to get all the centering pass from Nauman. Much of the credit for Notre been in." number of good players than we've kids to do." 
Goalie Mark Klein lost his bid for Dame's success has to go to Coach had in the past. They are much The clutch hitting that chasedSophomore halfback Nick
a shutout when Goshen's Todd Rich Hunter and his assistant Tom more aggressive and really have home all three Notre Dame runs
Schneeman echoes that sentiment.
Woolworth knocked in a bouncing Van Meter. their heads in the game." after two were out in the fifth 
"Some of the teams we play have
ball which had hit the crossbar "Coach Hunter has really helped inning was another bright spot for 
soccer players that are better Tuesday's win over Goshen was
before coming straight back to him us as a team," junior co-captain the Irish. skilled individuals than we are." Notre Dame's first over that school "We stayed with them defen­Schneeman admits. "But we win in 12 yeats. The Notre Dame sively, and then we took advantage games on our close teamwork and soccer program is rapidly climbing of the breaks," said Kelly. "We superior physical conditioning. and this weekend the Irish will go keep stressing that we'll have to During the week, we run close lo on the road to meet Xavier at take advantage of these situations.'
*Observer 
between training on and
100 miles our Cincinnati Saturday The Irish hit the road for a pair of 
schedules, games and scrimmages. Indiana-Purdue University at Fort doubleheaders this weekend. Cin­We're in excellent shape." Wayne on Sunday before coming cinnati University will provide the meet on
home to Manchester opposition Saturday before Notre
In recent years. the Notre Dame Tuesday. 
Dame tangles with Xavier Sunday.
soccer club has done well in 
Kelly plans to start Leahy andrepresenting the school. But this It is requested that those wishing senior Don Wolfe in two of the
sports 
year's increased success on the to play soccer games use fielda games, and also freshmen Bobvarsity level is quite noteworthy. other than the team's which is Bartlett and Mike Deasy.
Coach Rich Hunter has noticed the located behind Stepan. The field is "You might say we're anxiously
difference. torn up enough as it is. 
awaiting to see how the two freshmen will do, "chuckled Kelly. ''This weekend should be a good
Women's lnterhall Football Sports Close Contests 
test for us,'' predicted Kelly. ''Cincinnati and Xavier will provideby Laurie Reising when on a toss from quarterback their way down to the Walsh 5 yard good competition, and we'll be able
Then. late in the game it was theWomen's Sports Editor 
, Kathy Lew was caught by Patty line. An Offsides penalty put out combination of Lew and Hackett to take a few people who haven't Hackett who ran 40 yards down the the fire and time ran out before seen too much action.
again that pulled it out for Farley.Tuesday afternoon say another right side for the score. Walsh another play could be initiated. "The weather hasn't been too round of women's interhall football stopped Farley in their attempt for The second half saw both defen­On a reverse. Hackett grabbed the conducive to getting a lot of people being battled out on the field the two point conversion sive squads doing their job well. ball and raced in on a short run for in so far. We planned to take quite behind Stepan Center. The Farleyites had an opportun­Farley was able to stop a potential six more points and a Farley a few kids who hadn't played much 
In the first game of a twin bill, ity to go ahead in the closing Walsh score. when freshman Rose victory. Final score of the contest to Indiana State and when that got Lyons again looked tough as they minutes of the first half making .\nn Belloma intercepted a pass. was 12-8. rained out, it hurt us." handed Badin an 8-0 defeat. Their 
points cam,e early in the second half on a long pass from quarterback 
'Ice Holes' begin season with membership drive 
Beth La Rocca to Michele O'Haren who took it in for the touchdown. After considerablelending ex­expand the club," expresses finest spirit groups in the WCHA." 10:00 p.m. at the Flanner Pit.
Lvons was then successful on the 2 citement and enthusiasm to the 
Danik. "Student ticket sales 
are · Hockey enthusiasts can contact Those who cannot attend but
p~int conversion. It looked like the Notre Dame Hock.ey program last are 
way ahead of last years sales and 
Danik about joining the Ice Holes interested inbeingan Ice Hole cangame might have been headed season. The Ice Holes are back 
the team is playing well in pre­
this week by attending the organi­call Drew (1993), Meg (1277) ortowards an overtime when Badin for their second season and looking 
season workouts so we're optimis­
zational meeting the Wednesday at Chad (6941).
made their way down to the Lyons for fresh recruits. Drew Danik, the 
tic about the upcoming year. A lot 
20 with minutes left on the clock. head Ice Hole, promises plenty of 
of students have expressed interest 
But the solid Lyons defensive line events; including tailgaters. parties 
Lacrosse club tops alumni
in the Ice Holes and a few are even 
which hasn't allowed a single and bus trips in the upcoming 
going to bring their own instru­
touchdown in four games, kept season. 
ments to the game to keep the by Carl Aumen son, Jim Brown and Tom Moran alltheir record intact as time ran out "We really got behind the team crowd going." 
had two tallies. Bob Driscoll, Jim
on the Badin drive. last year and had a great time in During weekend play at Cartier Lepley andJim Salshoder scored
Coach Stev~ Thomas praised his the process," comments Danik. It won't be long before hockey Field, the Irish Lacrosse team defense for their consistently good "This year we are going to be season is underway and Danik and scored their first victory in their once for the alumni cause. efforts so far but hoped his offense working along with the Blue Line the Ice Holes are anxious to get annual game with the lacrosse 
The Irish looked strong and are
"would look a little crisper next Club and organizing bus trips, alumni. The alumni scored early
things organized. Plans are al­hoping for a good spring season.time." tailgate parties and a few other ready being made for a bus trip to but the Irish countered with two They face teams from Ashland,
It was Farley vs. Walsh in the events as the season goes along. goals held lead.
Michigan State and Michigan dur­and their Bowling Green, Michigan, Mich­
second match of the afternoon and And we'll still be as loud and rowdy The game was one of the more
ing second semester. "Together igan State, and Purdue. The team
Farley look like championship as possible in support of the Irish." interesting match-ups played by
with the Blue Line Club we feel we sports a strong defense. The material as thej defeated Walsh Danik was the inspiration behind the Irish since each team fielded a
can sponsor a successful trip to the mid-fieldhas an assortment of tal­
12-BI the Ice Holes last year, organizing lot of talent. Paul Rizzo played an
games within driving distance. ent including three freshmen 
Walsh struck first very early the club, designing the easily excellent game and scored a hat standouts, Tim Michaels, Carl 
when their quarterback ran it 82 distinguishable Ice Hole !-shirts The Blue Line Club has expressed trick. John Romanelli and John Lundblad, and Jim Lyddane.yards for the touchdown. Fresh­and directing the infamous kazoo interest in having more student Gray each scored two goals. Jim 
The next game for the stickmen
man Maggie Lally ran in the 2 point band when the University band was input into their club and if we can S_carola, Pat Clynes, Tim Walsh 
will be against the Chicago La-
conversion to put Walsh ahead 8-0. absent. pool our interest in Notre Dame aftd Mike Caron each contribute 
Farley answered minutes later •'This year we would like to hockey we can establish one of the one. Forf the Alumni, Joe Ander-crosse Club, October 9. 
' 








