
NO cuts workers while Teamsters petition 
ing a petition by the Teamsters for attempt to unionize. "The Univer­
by Mike Ridenour a representation election (an elec­sity has had this in process for 
tion for the. employees so as to months," the official said. 
Notre Dame plans to permanent-determine if they wanted to be "All along the University figured ly lay off 21 groundskeepers effec-represented by a labor union). on making the switch to an outside tive Nov. 1. The action comes while However, a Notre Dame petition firm that could do the work with the groundskeepers are in the asked that the Teamsters' petition automation," the source explained. process of seeking unionization by be dropped. The reasoning was "The outside firm," he said, Teamsters Local 364. that after Nov. 1, there would be no "could do the work a hell of a lot 
The University revealed its plans employees for the Teamsters to more efficiently.''in a petition filed this past week represent. Mike Lawrence, assistant with the National Labor Relations A Notre Dame official, who business representative of Board (NLRB). asked to remain anonymous, said Teamsters Union Local 364,
A hearing had been set for this there was no connection between disputes the fact that an Wednesday by the NLRB concern-the layoffs and the goundskeepers' outside firm was contracted 

~~ .... 
133rd birthday 
SMC to celebrate Founder's Day 
by Jean Powley present students on display, will South Bend; and Board of Regents 
St. Mary's Editor also open Wednesday in Moreau member Joseph Fahey. 
Gallery. It, too, will be open Entries will be due Nov. 23. 
St. Mary's College is 133 years through Saturday. They should be between three and 
old this Thursday and its students, Wednesday evening's dinner five pages in length, according to 
faculty and administration plan to will be a buffet, in honor of Cathy Hedges, vice president for 
significantly mark Founder's Day Founder's Day. During the meal, Academic Affairs. Judges for the 
this year. Student government has the St. Mary's Women's Chorus contestwill be Sr. Eva Hooker, head 
planned four days of historical will present a choral program of the English department; Rita 
displays, art exhibits, an essay entitled "A Song of St. Mary's". Cassidy, member of the history 
contest, a choral program, a picnic, At that time, any student who department; and Brigid Rafferty, a 
a mass and a faculty-student mixer, wishes to have her St. Mary's ring senior English major. _ 
as well as a faculty-student softball blessed may bring it to the service St. Mary's President John 
game. and Fr. Edward Krause will bless Duggan will announce the winners 
''This is the first time that any it. at the Christmas banquet. The top 
group on campus has made an The "First Annual Founder's entry will be published in three 
effort to really plan something for Day Essay Contest" will also be different-collged publications, 
Founder's Day," said Mary Ruka­announced during Wednesday's Courier, the alumnae magazine; 
vina, student body president. "We dinner. Sponsored by the Student Chimes, St. Mary's literary maga­
wanted to do it to honor the Sisters Academic Council, the contest is zine; and the Scholastic. 
of the Holy Cross for 144 years of open to any St. Mary's student who No specific activities are planned 
services to the college and also to wishes to write something on the for Thursday. which is the official 
tie together all of St. Mary's past, present or future of anything Founder's Day because, according 
traditions," she explained. or anyone at the college. to Rukavina, the dining hall was 
The celebration will begin Wed­First prize is $50, second is $30 and booked for a special dinner months nesday when the display of histori­third is $20. Official plaques will in advance, so they had to plan cal memorabilia on the upper also be given to the top three activities accordingly. concourse of the Angela Athletic essayists. In addition, honorable A faculty-student beer and pret­Facility opens. Items from all over mention prizes will be awarded. zels mixer in the clubhouse is campus were gathered for the Student government donated $25 of planned for Friday afternoon from display which will continue through the prize money, with the remain­3 to 6 p.m. Simultaneously, an Saturday. der coming from Director of Stu­all-campus picnic and a faculty-stu­
A St. Mary's student art show, dent Activities Mary Laverty; Mary dent~ softball game wiii be taking 
with works of both former and Rita Hellmuth, an alumna living in place on the south lawn. 

out. On Aug. 26, a "great majority.of"It could be a decoy, since by the the 21 groundskeepers asked to time we file an unfair labor practice sign union application cards," 
charge plus the long process that Lawrence related. Lawrence, plus would take, the groundskeepers another representative from the would be gone because of the Nov. Teamsters, was ·to discuss the 1 date," he asserted. recognition of the groundskeepers 
Cromwell Management Corp. as a bargaining unit with Bull. would be the firm contracted to do 
The meeting with Bull wasthe groundskeeping work, accord­scheduled for Sept. 2, but "wasing to the petition filed by Notre delayed for some reason or anotherDame. "That's news to me," said a to Sept. 15," Lawrence said. 
surprised Christopher Murphy, president of Cromwell Manage­The University refused to recog­ment Corp. "I've got to believe nize the Teamsters' request. The that's a mistake," Murphy contin­Teamsters Local notified the NLRB ued, "we have submitted a bid but and they set up a hearing for Oct. there's a number of companies who 12 in South Bend. bid on it." 
On Oct. 5, a Dismissal of Petition If Cromwell receives the con­filed by a Chicago law firm repre­tract, Murphy said there was a senting Notre Dame, Seyfarth,chance some of the laid off workers Shaw, Fairweather & Geraldson,would be hired. But, "I don't know was sent to the Teamsters Localthe people, and we might not have 
364. 

to hire right away." 
It said "effective November 1,Lawrence commented, "I don't 1977, all groundskeeping functions know of any other university which performed by the groundskeeperswould do a shoddy thing like this. 
presently employed by the Employ­It's hypocritical for a Catholic er (Notre Dame) will be contracted institution such as Notre Dame to, out to Cromweil Management _in principle, support rights of 
Corp."
workers to organize, but refuse that The petition continued thatright to their own employees." 
"based on its decision to contractLawrence referred to a recent out all gwundskeeping functions,meeting of U.S. Catholic bishops the Employer has no plans for theon Sept. 15th. "They (the bishops) resumption of goundskeeping oper­affirmed that in keeping with ations by its own employees in thelongtime Church teachings sup­porting labor rights, Church 
near or forseeable future." employees are entitled to organize­The Oct. 12 hearing has not been and bargain collectively." cancelled The representation elec­
Although acknowledging the tion will be held at the hearing and workers rights to organize, Tom arguments will be heard concern­
Bull, director of Personnel, ing the timing between the layoffs responded, "We'd like to think and the unionization attempt. The th11t Notre Dame is a good place to hearing will be held in the County­
work and that union presence isn't City Building at 10 a.m. and is open necessary.'' to the public. 
Commissioners 'happy' with final SU budget 
by Jack Pizzolato Commissioners. The Board, which 
Senior Staff Reporter held its annual budget hearings 
last week, chopped that figure by 
$6,925. 
Student Union (SU) Commis­Gryp said that the cuts would not sioners are "happy" with the final hamper Student Union operations, version of the SU budget, accord­observing that the final budget was ing to SU Director Tom Gryp, "close to what we wanted." The despite an overall cut of a more Board of Commissioners also wrote than $6,900. The new budget, out a set of recommendations for which totals $59,972, represents an the Student Union which they have increase of approximately 15 per­not yet released. cent above last year's budget The SU director was not inform­figure. ed where the Board had made 
The Student Union originally specific cuts, but was presented submitted a request for $66,897 to with 'an overall figure to trim his the student government's Board of [Continued on page 6] 

...~--~-~·+·.~.--.7*~.·.-.~..-.-.-,.~.~.. ~-,-.-.~.~.~.P~;u-.~.----~~.G~--~--...~..-..·~•.~..--~c--.-,7~-~~ 
• ..  •  •  •  ,.  •  •  •  •  •  ..  ~  •  •  1  ••  
•  •  •  .  •  •  •  .  c  • -.......... ­•  -• --•  - .••  -..  
r  
2  the observer  Monday, October 10, 1977  


,...News Briefs-------...._. 
1:=:::::::::=:::::::=::::=:::::::=:::::::=:::::::=:::::===::=::::::::::::::World 
1 Cosmonauts launch 'working mission' 
MOSCOW · The Soviet Union opened the third decade of the space age yesterday by launching two cosmonauts into space to link up with an orbiting space station. Twelve hours after blast-off, Moscow's evening television reported that the cosmonauts were well and were carrying out the flight plan. Spaceship commander Lt. Col. Vladimir Kovalenok, 35, said, "W're heading up for a working mission, and we hope we fulfill our tasks." 
Monk canonized as Catholic saint 
VATICAN CITY-Sharbel Makhlouf, a 19th Century Maronite monk to whom Lebanese Christians and Moslems pray for miraculous cures, was canonized as a Roman Catholic saint yesterday. Pope Paul VI called on him to "heal the wounds" of Lebanon's civil war. St. Sharbel is the first saint from the Middle East to be canonized by the C..tholic church since Popes began to proclaim saints in 973. 
============================== National 
U.S.l.A. ma.r be replaced 
WASHINGTON • President Jimmy Carter is expected to propose this week creation of a new agency that would swallow up the U.S. Information Agency (USIA) and guarantee that Voice of America policy pronouncements be clearly labeled, much like paid commercials. Carter wants to replace USIA with a new agency that also would take charge of cultural and educational exchange programs now administered by the State Department. 
Weather -:=:£€~ 
Sunny with increasing cloudiness during the afternoon and a 30 percent chance of showers and thunderstorms by evening, warmer with highs in the mid 60s. A 60 percent chance of showers and thunderstorms tonight, lows in the upper 30s. Partly cloudy and cool tomorrow with highs in the upper 50s. Southwest winds 10-20 miles per hour this afternoon. 



~On Campus Today 
3:30pm 4 pm 
4:30pm 
5:30pm 7:20pm 
7:30pm 
7:30pm 
8:15pm midnight 

The Observer Is published Mon­d•y through Friday except durtng ex•m and vK.etlon periods. Tile Observer Is published by the students of Notre Dame end S.lnt M•ry's College. Subsaiptlons m•y be purdl•sed for 120 per y..r (S 1 0 per semester) from The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre D•me, lndlene 4UU. Second ct•n po1tage p•ld. Notre Dame, lndl•n•, 4UU. 
The Observer 11 • member of the Associated Pren. All repro­duction rtghts ere reserved. 

The Dynamic Duo <(#f. 
Night Editor: Steve Odland \. Asst. Night Editor: ROS!ffiiJtY Mills .)Jif',iii uyout Staff: and ,~
did." ..}(i· Editorial Layout: l<evlri 
~;:~e~yout: Bob K:~. ;:::1!;~ Typists: Mark Rust, Anile Giere, Suzy Plavac, l~IJh (Room Service} Tunaken ;!::'> Night Controller: ~ardi Ne~in Day Editor: M1ke LewiS; SMC-Sue Ballmann t' Copy Reader: Phil CackJ.~y; SMC~ Molly Woulfe it Photographer: leo Hansoq.>.
•. •·.·-:-::···::::::···:<~' 

suvon demonstration, instruction in the use of suvon telephone network for faculty, rm. 242, o'shag. 
computer course, elementary job control language (jell. sponsored by computing ctr., rm. 115, ccmb, tuition free. 
civilisation film series, "the hero as artist," carro ·I hall, smc. 
annual adress, fr hesburgh will present his annual address to the faculty and staff, washington hall. 
meeting, french club, a chance to speak french ?n. an informal basis, south dining hall, faculty dmmg room, all invited. 
duplicate bridge, ladies of nd, faculty and staff duplicate bridge, university club. 
faculty senate meeting, seminar room 202, cce. 
concert, chicago symphony brass quintet, sacred heart church, $1. 
album hour gold, "bad reputation," thin Iizzy. 
Brass Quintet to perform 

A program of brass music from the Renaissance to the 20th century will be performed by the Chicago Symphony Brass Quintet in the Sacred Heart Church at 8:15 p.m. tonight. The concert is part of the Music Department Series and tic­kets, priced at $1, will be available at the door. 
A favorite for acoustical qualities in its Gothic interior, Notre Dame's church has been the scene of annual concerts by the quintet, all members of the prestigious Chi­cago Symphony Orchestra. They include Charles Geyer and William Scarlett, trumpet; Daniel Gingrich, horn; Jay Friedman, trombone; and Arnold Jacob, tuba. 
Their program will include Josquin's "Vive le Roy" and "La Bernardino," Purcell's "Two Trumpet Tunes," Daniel Speer's ''Baenkelsaengerlieder,'' Giovanni Gabriell's "Canzona per Sonare No.1," and Johann Pezerl's "Four Pieces." A cornetto, an early wooden instrument related to the 
trumpet,  and clarino,  or  soprano  
trumpet,  will  be  used  in  the  
concert.  

American wom.en breaking molds 
by Jake Morrissey Staff Reporter 

After centuries of being econo­mically impotent, American women are slowly breaking out the molds and standing on their own. In a lecture entitled ''The Future of Housewifery," last Friday, Univer­sity of Maryland economist Bar­bara Bergmann outlined her "hopes and views" on the econo­mic status of women. 
"The most offensive part of my day,'' she told a group of about 30 faculty members and students, "is when I'm driving to work and I see black women getting off of the bus and going into the suburban homes of their employers." "I'm against people being assigned roles accord­ing to their race and sex," she declared. 
In her forty-five minute discus­sion, Bergmann cited four cate­gories which she believes describes Amrican economic family life. "There is the lady ofleisure model, the hotel model" and two others she subdivided intos the "patri­archal model, the egalitarian model the Swedish model and the Russian model." 
Bergmann told the audience that ''the lady of leisure is a wife who does no paid work, and is married to a rich man who can afford lots of servants." 
The hotel model, conversely, is a situation "where everyone does the economic equivalent of a hotel,'' by eating in restaurants, sending laundry out to be cleaned and housekeeping services. "I have to tell you that that's the model I'm living and it's great," she joked. 
The patriarchal model, Berg· mann continued, is a family whose life is organized around the hus­band "as boss or head of the family." The egalitarian model, "where a young bride expects joining decision-making and her contribu­tions to the family are worth something," is desirable, she noted, but cautioned that this frequently does not occur and slips intp the patriarchal model. 



ROCCO'S 

BARBERS 

hairstylists 
531 N. Michigan 233-4957 

Leaving child care and house­no housework--it's a dog's life." work to both husband and wife was Bergmann concluded her classified by Bergmann as "the remarks by foreasting that "in the Swedish model." "When a child is future, more and more women from born in Sweden, both the man and all economic classes will move int, woman are allowed leave from their the hotel model." jobs," she said. The Russian The Maryland economist was model has a high orientation brought to the University by the toward jobs, but "men do little or 




PARTY!! 

two cans for $1.00 

Monday, October 10, 1977 the··observer 

Cheating causes abolition of honor codes 
no reward.'' and didn't consider the honesty of by Kevin Walsh Honor codes, which schools others to be their concern. "We no Senior Staff Reporter established to prevent academic longer want the burden of enforc­dishonesty, have faltered. In 1964, ing a concept which is ignored by 
Excessive amounts of cheating the Notre Dame Honor Council the student body," the council and plagiarism by students in went into effect after it was said. American colleges and universities approved by a student body Similarly, Johns Hopkins Univer­has led to the abolishment of many referendum. sity abolished their honor code in academic honor codes. The council was based on an 1976, and the honor code has been 
"Everyone has given up on the honor concept, which stated, "As a under serious question at West bedrock principle of an honor code Notre Dame student, I pledge Point, where later that same year that places students on their honor honesty in all my academic work 130 cadets were implicated in a not to cheat,'' according to a and will not tolerate dishonesty in cheating scandal. University of Florida (Gainesville) my fellow students." In place of the honor committee, official. A student was in violation of the Notre Dame has placed the respon­
Bernard Waldmen, Dean of the honor code if he submitted aca­sibility of ensuring academic 
College of Science, states that demic work that was not the result honesty with each department. cheating and plagiarism are a of his own honest thought and This, according to Asst. English result of the intense pressure to effort. Professor Sarah Daugherty, has obtain high grades and gain accep­However, this honor system, resulted in some confusion, for tance to a quality law or medical based on trust and communication, various departments view their school. disbanded in 1969 when it was 
power differently. Dr. Richard Kessler, associate realized that the code was being 
Daugherty said that cheating is dean of Northwestern University's abused and used as a license for not common in the English Depart­medical school, agrees with /cheating and plagiarism. 
ment's courses, for most of their Waldman. Kessler believes that In a letter to the Notre Dame 
tests are essay in form rather than 
"cheating is engendered in a community, the 40 member council short answer. Daugherty, however, system where people who are stated that students were no longer did cite plagiarism as a concern of competent work hard, but receive committed to academic honesty the department. 
On college campuses 
Campaign rejects CIA actions 
any, government spying that has 
The letter marks the beginning
occurred on college campuses is 
ofthe Campaign's national effort to 
by PhD Wlldenhaim 
past history." 
alert all campuses to the danger of 
Hesburgh did agree with the 
unregulated CIA activity.
In a recent letter to 42 college letter's statement that, "It is the In addition to controlling andand university presidents nation­academic community's responsi­disclosing CIA presence, memberswide, the Campaign to Stop bility to set the professional and of the campus community will beGovernment Spying has called for ethical standards of all its called on to ensure that theirthe adoption of guidelines to speci­members.'' 
institution is free from the abusesfically define the relationship bet­He said, "Notre Dame has of political spying and harassment ween the American intelligence abided by certain unwritten guide­by the FBI, state and local police,community and academic institu­lines in regard to its relationships and campus security departments. 
tions. with the American intelligence The Campaign to Stop Govern­The committee, chaired by community." 
ment Spying is a coalition of 80Morton Halperin, has urged the "This university will probably groups nationwide that seeks topresidents to follow the lead of follow Harvard's example and end covert operations abroad, poli­Harvard University President adopt formal guidelines governing tical spying and harassment atDerek Bok in adopting guidelines university policy toward CIA work home, and to make the charterswhich would prevent secret CIA on college campuses. This will be and the budgets of the intelligence work on college campuses. done through regular university agencies public. 
The Campaign has encouraged channels,'' he further stated members of each instution to The Faculty Senates at the assess their campus situation and schools contracted have also been 
NEW 
develop appropriate guidelines. asked to initiate action to establish 
IN SOUTH BEND
Notre Dame has received a letter such guidelines. Student govern­
from the Campaign. The letter ments have additionally been alert­claims that students were recruited ed and encouraged to lobby in by the CIA, and if found unco­support of stricter CIA controls. 

COSIMO'S
operative, were blackmailed or Notre Dame Student Body harassed. President Dave Bender stated, "I University President, Fr. am definitely in favor of the 

HAIR 

Theodore Hesburgh responded to University drawing up such guide­
the letter, saying, "I have never lines. It is very important for the 

DESIGNS 
known of anv such activities going university to make clear its posi­
on at Notre Uame." Whatever, if tion." 
FOR MEN 
& WOMEN

Job interviews open to all 
seniors, grad students 
COSIMO, ROSE &
Job interviews are open to senior and employer literature are in and graduate students in the Room 213 of the Main Building. 
I SUE ARE YOUR 
December, May and August · Students should consult the 
HAIR DESIGNERS
classes. Students may sign up any Placement Bureau manual for addi­day this week for the interviews tional information regarding inter­·scheduled next week at the Place­view and Placement Bureau ser­
for APPT. call 
ment Bureau, which is open 8 a.m. vices and procedures. Students 
277-1875
through 5 p.m. must sign up for interviews Any students intending to have personally. 
Mon-Sat 8 to 6 
interviews must have a completed Sign-up schedules for law school 
profile (registration) form on file interviews are in O'Shaugnessy 
Next to the DistillefY. 
with the Placement Bureau. Regis­Hall, the Pre-Law Society. 
.......

tration, interview sign-up sheets 
Our 

PREPARE FOR: 39th J
Ombudsman 
MCAT •DAT •LSAT •OMIT 
Ye•r

to be shot 
ORE •OCAT •VAT· SAT
The Ombudsman will have its yearbook picture taken tomorrow at 
12:30 on the steps of the Admisis­
1MB I, II, III·ECFM&·FLEX·IQE
tration Building. All members are 
NAT'L DENTAL BOARDS • NURSING BOARDS 
asked to attend. 
Flexible Programs & Hours 
Timers needed 
'lllne IS • d'if(nencetlt 
For Information Please Call: l ~-H.
for swim meets 
Collect MPUIN
All Notre Dame and St. Mary's 
·WeSt Lafayette EDUCATIONAL CENTER
girls who would like to be timers for 
463-7026 TEST PREPARATION 
the varsity swim meets should 
SPECIALISTS SINCE 1938 
contact either Jim Severyn at 1797 
Serving BlOQI_!lingtop, Indianapolis South 
or Ed DiLuia at 1155. Girls who 
Bend I For Locations in other dties 
have previously signed up need not 
Outside N.Y. State Only CALL TOLL FREE: 800-223-1782 
Centers In MaJor US Cities Toronto, Puerto Rico and Lugano, Switzerland
call. 
The girls, who will be known as 
-· -cLASSES NOW FORM ,
. lNG 
members of the "Dolphin Club," 
f~r ~~~1;, G;RE, t.tnd GM_AT.
will participate in six home meets. 
No experience is necessary. 
I-~-... ._ •• •_., .·
• • .. • • • • • • .. • J • • •.~ • 
Plagiarism takes several forms. 
question at hand, but it will make Verbatum copying of a passage sense. Also, the quality of work is without proper footnotes is the usually different." 
most obvious method. Daugherty Contrary to the English depart­states that students who do this ment, however, the more technical­take a big risk, for professors read ly related subjects experience a a great deal, thus having familiar­higher degree of cheating on tests,ity with most sources that a student especially in larger classes. 
would use. 
W aidman noted that cheatingIdeas derived from a source takes three forms: looking at which a student paraphrases but other's papers, the use of crib does not give credit for is also sheets, and changing an answer plagiarism. Daugherty, though, once a test has been handed back to 
remarked, "I won't go after a the student. W aidman stated that 
student unless such a form of professors are careful to watch for plagiarism appears to be deliber­cheating and usually make xeroxed ate. Normally this is just a slip and copies of student's tests. 
is dealt with as a teaching The method used to try a student problem." 
who has been accused of cheating Less obvious forms of plagiarism or plagiarism is lengthy. After the are the inclusion of ideas taken initial charge is made by a profes­from notes in another class and any sor, the evidence is presented to type of use of a paper done the Director of Undergraduatepreviously for another professor. 
Studies. 
"Professors may have actually He then convenes an honestyhelped write the paper," said committee which debates the 
Daugherty. "Professors may have .charge with both the accused and provided helpful background in accuser present. If it is found that class notes or constructive criticism the student did violate the code, on graded papers.'-' 
the committee advises the profes­One has.committed plagiarism if sor as to what they think the these aids are not acknowledged in penalty should be. Should the footnotes. 1 Daugherty did admit student disagree, an appeal can be that there is a fine line between made to the Dean of Students. 
actual knowledge and ideas derived 
Academic Commissioner 
from a cla~s. but if in doubt, the Florance Ann Strigle believes that safest policy is to footnote such the present system of handlingmaterial. 
violations of the honesty code is The direct use of Monarch Notes better than the former university or term papers researched by honor committee, but still has some others is also plagiarism. Accord­faults which don't enable it to meet 
ing to Paugherty, "If writing all of a student's needs. "We 
comes from such an outside source, shouldn't be penalized for trying to it is usually evident, for a student's prove our innocence," said Strigle, paper mav not exactly deal with the "but sometimes we can be." 
w..J 

I 
TRYOUTS FOR 
~ 

THE CAUCASIAN 
CHALK CIRCLE

SMC 
October 9 and 1 0 7 p.m.-Washington Hall 
THEATRE 

A Comedy of Errors 
Audition information availabe in Speech and Drama Office, Rm. 110, Moreau Hall, Saint Mary's. 
Shakespeare's merry masquerade. Odober7, 8, 13, 14, 15 
at 8:00p.m. All seats $2.50O'Laughlin ($2 Std-Fac-Staff) Alone: 284-4176 
Auditorium 
s ~
EASON TICKETS STILL AVAILABLE ...................~ 
4 PLAYS $9 ($7 Std-Fac-Staff) Includes: COMEDY OF ERRORS, CAUCASIAN CHALK CIRCLE, TOUCH OF A POET, and THE 
MIKADO 
13liJI 

1211313()~ ~1()1-lf 
·'.

()(1.11 
10-12pm 
. I-----~ 
l. 

3PBR'S FOR A BUCK! 
drawings for beer paraphenalia; T -shirts, po'ters, plaques, ETC. 
.... ,. .).-.· ~ : ....._, 
.
.

......... of.-,, .r,• ,-1.•~•;:.. · · · ~, .•.-. _­
---------------------~-~,_.--------------~---~--~ 
the observer -. MondayI October 10, 1977 
In ND student collapse 
'Probable viral encephalitis ' diagnosed 
care unit. "He was drowsy and 
by Frank Laurino quite out of it," said Dr. Matherly. 
"We didn't know what was 
A Notre Dame student who wrong." 
collapsed in his dormitory on Oct. I The student was given a spinal was diagnosed by St. Joseph tap which "showed an increase in Hospital physicians as having the number of white blood cells in 
''probable viral encephalitis,'' the spinal fluid," according to although informed sources were Matherly. "Since there was a quick to report that the diagnosis possibility of viral encephalitis, we was "by no means definite." had to report it," he said. Dr. Ryan Matherly, resident Matherly cited various reasons physician at St. Joseph's Hospital, for the elevated white blood cell reported the admittance of the count. "It could be a riumber of student ot the hospital's intensive things. Only one third of these 
notre dame student union & sunshine promotions 
presents 

introducing 
The Norton Buffalo Stampede FRIDAY, OCTOBER 21 8:00PM Notre Dame ACC 
Tickets: $8.00, $7.00 All Seats Reserved on sale now at the ACC box office & the student union box office 
Notre Dame Student U~!_o!l & Suflshine Present 

SATURDAY NOVEMBER 5 7:30pm 
NOTRE DAME A.C.C. 
All Seats Reserved; $8.50 & $7.50 
On sale now at: ACC box oHic:e, Student tidcet oHic:e, Rlllber1son's-s-. Bend & Concord Milll, Rr.;t Bank-Millin Brilnch c:>nly, St. Joe Bank & •II branches, Boogie Records, Just For The Record, The Record Joint-Niles, The Elkhart Truth 
-and Suspended Cord in Elkhart 
cases are diagnosable," he said. 
"One type is encephalitis." 
Referring to his patient, the 

doctor stated, "He really didn't 
have any symptoms of viral ence­
phalitis, except for the drowsiness 
and weakness." 
Viral encephalitis may result in 

death. "Those are the cases you 
usually hear about... the ones that 
scare everybody,'' said Matherly. 
"This case was not that serious." 
The student in question was 

released Oct. 5. He is reported in 
"good health" and has been 
attending classes. According to 
Matherly, the student will return to 
the hospital for blood tests. "If he 
had viral encephalitis, we'll be able 
to detect it then," the doctor said. 
Matherly assured that viral ence­

phalitis, a disease which is trans­
mitted to humans by infected 
mosquitoes, is "definitely not con­
tagious" and that there is "no 
worry for an outbreak." 
Affirming Matherly's statements 

was Dr. George Craig, professor of 
biology at Notre Dame and the 
director of the department's Vector 
Biological Laboratory. 
"I am in daily contact with a representative of the St. Joseph County Health Department,'' said Dr. Craig. "They've reported nothing to me concerning this case." 
"If viral encephalitis had existed... I'd now be actively involved in tracking down the sources," said Craig, who is the technical director of the St. Joseph Mosquito Abatement Program. 
He also is a consultant on vector diseases (those carried and trans­mitted by insects) to over SO 
Dance tickets must be validated 
The Social Commission Home­coming Committee is asking any students who plan to use home­coming dance tickets purchased in ticket packages to bring the dance tickets to the Student Union ticket office today, tomorrow, or Wednesday of this week between 12 and 4 p.m. to have them validated. 
This is being done so that it can be determined how many addi­tional dance tickets can be sold to students and alumni, as there is limited seating capacity in the ACC Concourse, where the dance will be held. 
organizations, including the World 
Health Organization and the U.S. 
Public Health Service. 

Craig said the chances of the student having viral encephalitis are less than "99 to one." 
Craig added that the mosquito season is over, "usually with the first frost," limiting the chances of the desease. "The peak of the season is around Labor Day," he said. 
"In fact, cases of viral encephali­tis are very rare in St. Joseph County," said Craig. He reported that during the epidemic of 1975, in which there were 2000 cases nationwide and 350 in Indiana (the second highest number in the country), there was only one case in St. Joseph County. 
"The greatest activity in Indiana is in the southern third of the 
MON-THU $1.00 PITCHER ONE HOUR 
BEFORE GAME TIME 
PENDING GAME 
LIVE ENTERTAINMENT FRIDAY & SATURDAY 
IF YOU'RE NOT A MEMBER JOIN NOW! 
HICKORY ROAD ONLY 
401 NORTH HICKORY 

state," Craig said. "And we've had only one human case there this year." 
Returning this weekend from a conference of the National Commit­tee Disease Center, Craig reported that the viral encephalitis rate currently is "very low," and that there is "no activity in Michigan and northern Ohio, Indiana, and Illinois.'' 
Craig explained that "encephali­tis" literally means "brain inflam­mation," and can occur in many diseases, "even measles." 
"I'm not a medical authority," said Craig, "but I would be skeptical of this particular case being one of viral encephalitis." 
"If it was, we'd be seeing more cases reported," agreed Matherly. "We'll probably never know what the student had." 
HAPPY HOUR AT 'Pinocchio's 2 pitchers for the price ofone Monday and Tuesday 4-7pm Stroh's 2for$2.40 Miller Lite 2for$2.65 Michelob 2for$2.95 SERVING • N.Y. style Neapolitan Pizza • Chicago Deep Dish Pizza Other Italian Dishes and Sandwiches DELIVERY ON CAMPUS 75~ 277-4522 -~~-~~·~~.....-.l 1Nf·. J 1 georgetown shopping plaza emmons road south bend '  

__...­
.

.'' . . : ... ' ...... . 
•. t .. ,t. I •' o' 
*Observer 
Editorials 
~1\iN'J t -m~-WE SftMTO tiA~ A~N ~IDEMIC! II 
opinion~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Gay Life Not Chosen, Not 'Unnatural' 
patrick w. merman 
In a column in the Oct. 7, 1977 Second, Mr. Cwik said that osophy that Aristotle left the school copy of The Observer, Mr. David homosexuality was not to be tol­for that very reason); Michel­Cwik attacked tolerance of homo­erated because it was not true angelo, da Vinci, Gertrude Stein, sexuality as dangerous. He said: freedom. I think, in a strong sense, and Ludwig Wittgenstein (who is "If homosexuality leads not to sexuality has nothing to do with considered one of the most impor­
freedom, but instead to decadence, freedom of choice. One can talk tant philosophers of this century). why should we not control its in­about being "captivated" by that One could also comment that, fluence?" He recommend that we well-endowed little girl who long before they started to decline, censor any positive statements or doesn't wear a bra, just as easily as Athens, Sparta and Rome accepted information on the gays of Notre a girl or a homosexual might dream homosexuality. In fact, I know in Dame from the pages of The of the muscular boy who likes to the case of Sparta homosexuality 
Observer. Mr Cwik called homo­wear his shirts unbottoned, etc. In was an integral part of the society sexuality "unnatural" and said the fact, since women can be gay, the from day one, if you have any faith power to choose a homosexual life girl might also like the little girl in history. And would you like to style was not real freedom. without the bra. Growing to accept say Sparta was decadent? No, 
First, as one who has studied the another, different, individual per­perhaps militaristic, perhaps con­theology and psychology of homo­sonality, may not be the exclusive servative and rigid, but Sparta is a sexuality, I think it is humorous to profession of heterosexual love. poor example of decadence. And imply that homosexuals really Homosexual love could make you one could say that heterosexual 
"choose" their sexual identity. It grow, and change, to become a fornication could also be a sign of would be hard to say anyone more complete, integrated, and decline, or, if you want to be 
. "chooses" his or her sex identity, tolerant individual. sarcastic, Kiss and Mick Jagger are in fact. Parents, bad or inadequate signs of decadent behavior. living conditions (emotional as well All sex, sooner or later, involves Fourth and final point, homosex­as financial), and even the· outlook what Mr. Cwik called "an urge for uality is "unnatural" only in as far 
of society in general, creates the perverse self gratification." Young as our society deems it so. As far atmosphere which make homo­men usually begin their sex lives by as natural sexuality goes (that is, sexuality possible. People, in fact, attaining puberty and mastur­the sex behavior of animals other "become" homosexuals as a mat­bating. Masturbating may be than humans), it is interesting to ter of "fate" (that is, differences in considered perverse, but normal read that human women seem to their background pile up until it persons have been known to do it, have sexual desires, gratifications, becomes difficult, if not impos­particularly in adolescence. Free­and physical structures different sible, to desire heterosexual love). dom, may in fact, be having a wide from their animal counterparts. People may say they "choose" range of personal choices, political Ann Oakley, in Sex, Gender 1111d homosexuality, but that may really influence, will power, and free Society says: "The analogy be­just mean they have resigned flowing thought or self-expression. comes increasingly ridiculous when themselves to who and what they Sex may be just a subset of we add that the nonhuman female really are, or that they have freedom. primate has no hymen, meno­embraced their desires, realizing pause, artifical feeding bottle, or that they can only truly be happy voluntary relief from procreation.'' 
Third, Mr. Cwik said that homo­and fulfilled as homosexuals. sexuality, or the tolerance of homo­Oakley also points out that female This is very conservative psy­sexuality, could lead to decadence. primates don't have orgasm as chology, because the American female human beings have. So one 
Decadence, in its largest sense, Psychiatric Association, more than could be sarcastic again, and say
means a "period of decline." (As least that's what Webster's Col­
five years ago, decided to stop "women don't have natural sex calling homosexuality a mental drives." I don't want to say that.
legiate says). To say homosexual­ity and the decline of society are
disturbance. It could be said that What is unnatural to some is homosexuals are just persons who normal to others. Oakley is
one in the same, becomes false in 
grew up in different "psycho­the eyes of history. The names of required reading in both psy­logical" neighborhoods. To call homosexual historical figures read chology and theology. Perhaps, homosexuality a sickness might be since Oakley presents sex honestly,
like a list of giants: Sapho, a Greek calling things like "a Catholic lyric poet whose works were re­everyone should be required to background" a sickness. I know, a quired reading in my high school; read her, including our friend, Mr. Catholic background may be real Plato (there were so many homo­David Cwik. Thank you for reading sickness. sexuals in Plato's school of phil-this. 
Roman Hero 

~ 
liLt IJIGHT 

Tb ~EC'm~ ... 

!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!.P . 0 . BOX Q 
my attention was distracted by
Dillon-Grace: 
fellow christians Who were tossing a frightened young woman toward the top rows of the
perspective? 
stadium, but I reserve my right to boo any person, play, or team inDear Editor: the future. Nobody stops to remember christianity or a 34-year
This letter is a rewrite of the booless streak when a referee 
recent article concerning the 
makes a call against Notre Dame. 
Dillon-Grace 'battle'. Any resem­One christian is good as another,blence to the truth is merely but before the refs flag hits theintentional. 
turf about 59,000 boo birds are on their feet expressing their attitude On Tuesday night the children toward a person who is a lot closer 
from Dilllm put on their booties, , coats, and mittens and went over to 
to the play than they are. I am sure football players,pick a fight with the bullies from coaches and teams understandGrace. When asked to explain the booing as well as they do cheering. 
cause of the Dillonites' temper Booing and cheering are the onlytantrum, one Dillonite pouted, mediums by which fans can ex­"They stole our fwag and we wanit press their emotions which are
back. We wanit. We wanit. We 'wanit." Grace's rector had to brought on by the performance of the teams on the field. I believe it tflreaten his boys with a severe would be a cruel hoax on any teampaddling .unless they returned the if its fans were to remain silent andflag to Dillon. Bro. Paczesny was frustrated and not express theirinjured in the fight when he told . 
dismay over poor play and poorone student to go to his room andthe · coaching.
unhappy student kicked him in the shin. 
Someone has to begin to express their dismay around here becauseDillon Hall Council was even The Observer sports staff hascalled upon to take action when neglected to bite the bullet. Notre some boys from Grace began to Dame fans are frustrated and Thetaunt Dillon Hall's President. Any Observer has a professional obliga­further taunting, they warned, tion to be objective and stop giving would result in serious name the impression that all is well in thecalling. 
Notre Dame football camp. Per­
In the event that any student is haps coming down on what causes brought up for a University infrac­fans to boo rather than the fans tion, he will, of course, have to face themselves would be more in line Dean Roemer, since there no with the purposes of any good longer is a University Judicial newspaper. Board to speak of. However, as one 
Michael Malkiewicz 

Dillonite put it, "We can't be all concerned about that when our fwag is on the line." Go Big Red. 
PEOPLE 
Mike Wu:nlack Jack Pizzolato 
Protest 

Dear Observing person: 
Booing right 
I wish to protest People maga­

zine's recent characterization of the appearance of Notre Dame stu-_ 
Dear Editor: dentry, and to offer myself as a living counterexample: I am I am both a Notre Dame student long-haired, bearded, and a trans­
and a Notre Dame fan. Sometime vestite, but I never wear a bra and in my life I may even come back to only occa8tonally a skirt. Notre Dame to see a game and old friends. (As an alumnus I might Gregory Marshall get a good seat.) I just want to give fair warning to my fellow 
Christians that I might boo at any game I attend, and I confess I have 
reserved Cwik laughs

booed several times since my last confession. 
at fools?

Booing is a fan's right. I must admit I did not boo Lish' s entrance into the game last week because Dear Editor: 
I was very much disturbed by Mr. David Cwik's first column, but
by Pat Byrnes 

now that I have read his second column, everything has become crystal clear. Mr. Cwik is obviously attempting to hoodwink the whole Notre Dame community by claim­ing with the utmost sincerity to adhere to views that are manifestly absurd. I am positive that Mr. Cwik is delighted with all the commotion he has started. He probably has been unable to stop laughingforthe last two weeks. Yes, it is clear. Mr. 
'Cwikis a humorist and,what'smore, an adept at deception. Seeing how he had at first completely fooled me and how he undoubtedly still fools countless other readers of The Observer, I can do nothing else but give my fullest congratulations to him. 
William FIIIDler 

r_......­
._.,., r 6 the Ob&eryer Monday, October 10, 1977 
--------~-----­
Commissioners 'happy' despite budget cut 
rContinued from page 1] needed," Gryp noted. budget by. Describing the process The Student Union had expected 
as "a game you play," Gryp said to offset their budget expenditures he reviewed each commission's with the revenue from three areas: proposed budget again with Assist­concerts, movies and special ser­
ant Director Jodie Korth and SU vices, such as refrigerator rentals. Comptroller Colleen McGrath. The predicted revenue from these "You got a feel by talking to each three areas combined, after indivi­commissioner of what they really dual expenses, was $21,243. 
Yale dean lectures crowd 
He traced the roles of religious by MoUy Woulfe classics, the medieval doctrines of the sacraments, and the globe­
Jaroslav Pelican, dean of Gradu­reaching effects of St. Augustine's ate Studies at Yale University, writings in the growth of the early drew a crowd of nearly 300 to Church's philosophies. 
Carroll Hall in Madeleva last "But," he added, "the glue that Tuesday night. His hour-long holds the world together is the lecture, sponsored by St. Mary's goodness of God Himself." A brief Humanistk Department, dealt with question-and-answer session con­'"The Spirit of Medieval cluded the lecture. 
Theology." Pelican has been lecturing to 
Pelican explained that he was not college audiences, including St. , concerned with the development of Mary's and Notre Dame, for the .. the medieval church as a "card­past twenty years. He has 
carrying medievalist" but rather as numerous papers to his credit, and a Christian interested in that recently completed-his third vol­period's traditions. ume on medieval theology. 
OPENAT5PM 
mon. -THURS. OPEN AT NOON FRI.&SAT. 

SPECIAL 
THIS WEEK! 
5-7pm mon.-thurs. 
NICKIEBURGER 
PLUSDRINK 1.25! 
3BUD, MILLER, LITE FOR $1.00 
from 7:OOpm till closing 65<: EA. 
•'The Board of Commissioners its other commissions. ing that it was still more than any 
took our revenue expectations at Among the hardest hit were SU SU social commission had received face value," Gryp commented, Academic and Social Commissions. in the past. "but we tried to lower the risk Academic Commissioner Terry "We're flexible," Deychakiwsky factor by lowering our revenue Joiner said that he submitted a stated. "Ideas come up during the 
figure." The final figure agreed proposed budget of $19,400 to Gryp year and we can act on them." upon was $15,581. which was later increased to Deychakiwsky said that he 
In determining this, Gryp point­$21,763. The commission's final wanted to put a lot of money into ed out that it is difficult to judge budget is $17,500, a drop of more the Nazz. 'It's high priority," he beforehand just how much profit than $4000. emphasized. "This is something 
any event or activity will make. By "We'll just have to do a little that goes on throughout the year; it lowering its estimated revenue, more bargaining," Joiner said, could expand and become a big however, the Student Union was refering to the 11 speakers which thing." forced to cut a total of $12.588 from the Academic Commission hopes to He also remarked that by requir­
bring on campus this year. He ing preliminary and finalized bud­
Hesburgh suggested that his commission gets for each event, the Social 
to address could co-sponsor guest lecturers [Continued on page 7] with the halls or even split trans­Faculty Senate portation fees with other schools in Guest I.D. 's the area. 
by Andy Segovia still necessary
Joiner did admit that in his 

University President Fr. original budget he made ''gene­St. Mary's freshmen should hold Hesburgh will attend tonight's rous estimates" of speaker expen­onto their guest I.D.'s a little Faculty Senate meeting in com­ses, but he noted that this was to longer. "The pictures are here, memoration of the Senate's tenth protect himself against unexpected but they're waiting for the lami­anniversary. costs. nation," explained Dr. Kathleen 
After a brief statement by Social Commissioner Orest Dey­Rice, dean of St'udent Affairs. She Hesburgh, the three standing com­chakiwsky saw his proposed budget added that the permanent I.D.'s, mittees of the Senate (administra­cut from $26,825 to $20,766. which were scheduled to be passed tion, faculty affairs, and student Deychakiwsky said he was satisfied out Oct. 4, should be distributed affairs) will give their respective with the figure, however, indicat-1 sQmetime this week. 

reports: Immediately after each report Hesburgh will respond to questions from committee mem­bers. 
According to Associate Professor of Finance Paul Conway, Senate chairman, the question and answer sessions will constitute the majority of the meeting. 
Some of the questions may be based on the general address Hesburgh will give to the faculty and staff this afternoon. 
Other questions will deal with each committee's specific area of concern. The administration com­mittee may seek clarification on the role of the provost in faculty affairs. 
The faculty affairs committee will offer inquiries dealing with the appointment and promotion of faculty members. The student affairs committee will discuss the student judicial system. 
The meeting usually held on a Tuesday, was scheduled for Monday in order to accomodate Hesburgh's schedule. 
The meeting scheduled for 7:30 
p.m. in Rm.202 of the Center for 
~ .....................,t Pre-game Party JRally ~: A NEW RECORD STORE IS : ~ Roosevelt Hotel ~=NOW OPEN IN SOUTH BEND!:f 46th and Madison Ave. N.Y.C. ::River City Records: 
.~ ~ • One of Indiana's Largest Record Stores • 
~ Fri. Oct. 14, 1977 7Pm to 11Pm ~=Grand Opening Saturday: 
._ * ND Cheerleaders ~ • • : 
~ *Band ....., • Featuring a full line of rock, pop, jazz, •
'J' ~ blues, soul and bluegrass records & ~ ....., • tapes! Also official concert tour T-shlrts, • "1" * Cash Bar ~ posters and belt buckles, cut-outs, im­
....,. 'iC • ports, magazines, blank tapes, record • 
"1" *Bagp1"pe s ....., care products and River City Concert
• r ~ • Tickets! (Pick up your copy of The River • 
i( * Raffle ~ • City Review today!) • 
'i( • • STAFF: • 
....,. ....., • PeterKeman, owner [ND '75] Jody Gonnlay [ND '77] • 
"l' Who's ··nv••ted?. Alumni·, students ~ PerryAbarli,manager[ND'69] PaterMurphy[ND'78]
.J. ....., • Bruce Reaves, assistant manager Randy Varga • 
"1" ~ • Chris Kaman, assist. manager [ND '78] Karan Aberli
it and friends of Notre Dame iC • . Branda Fteace rsMc 'n • 
it ~.-------·COUPON---------:
! <AMONG THE INVITED SPECIAL GUESTS ARE: Father Joyce, Moose ....., ·socOFFANYL.P.ORTAPE NO. 
""1" Krause, Col. Jade Stephens, Tim Ryan, Don Criqui, Joe Garagiola, Angelo ~ 
..... Bertelli and many others.) i' • WITH THIS COUPON! 
• 
~ iC • (Now thru Oct 20) 
~ s2 ND/SMC$tudents with 10 iC: River City Records 
..., *3 Ever~on e else il . 50970 u.s. 31 North (Next to Ray's Quality Foods) • 
i********* *****************•l.••v•••••••••••i•i;.l
L, ' ,
' • ,. ,• .. -' ,. t".i ~·...-.. i" ·ol·~· ... • ~ ..· . -·-i.·;,; . . . ,.. -'j/' ••. . . ' t' .• ' ' • '~··· .....-:.. ·... ' ,,/t./• .....-.~;·.~······ ~-. ·..-:. .~).. ,·· ........., •• ·:••• ' .";-.~ .• " • .'1.•. ...., .... -;· .· ,... ... •,. ·~·";• •..l... •••••';"./ ... ';.•f~ ... ~..·~.:
-~--·--·-4,_·,___· ·__•___· __• __·_·_·__•_·__•__' _·_·____' __'_·__,_·_.. ____·_A__________________________________________________________.................................... 
Continuing Education is open to all 
.__________________________._faculty members. · 
*****************************!
« Notre Dame Club of New York, Inc. ~ i( PRESENTS ~
. 

~ ~ NOTRE DAME VS ARMY 
One way may be to live within the Augustinian Fraternity. When you come to live with us, you observe and participate In our community life for several yeara before making a final commitment. You observe that we are a religious community following the charlsm of St. Augustine and "that together and with one heart In brotherhood and spiritual friendship, we seek and worship God and that we labor In the service of the people of God." We serve In colleges, high schools, parishes, foreign missions, campus ministries, retreats, hospitals and military chaplaincies. 
WANT MORE INFORMATION? CONTACT: 
Father Bill Waters, O.S.A. Villanova University 
P.O. Box338 
Villanova, PA 19085 
(215) 525-5612 

N•m•------------------------------------­
Addn.•'~---------------------------------Clty___________Stete'~------~Z,,Ip'------­
School or Occ.,~-----------'"g•--------­
Phone 
=. t •••

.. . . ?"'!": ......... ~:;;;.. .·••.•......J.:­
. . .'.·.·.•.·.·.· •. 

Monday, October 10, 1977 
the observer 
NOTICE 

NEED QUALITY TYPING? Executary, Inc. Professional Typing Service IBM Correcting Selectrics. 85 cents per page minimum. Call 232-0898 "When you want the best. " 
Accurate, fast typing. Mrs. Donoho, 23NI746. Hours, 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. 
Can't skate? Try broomball. 18 brooms provided. lcerink, 8416. 
01oose ~ur OIM1 hours. tn•eresling position with new local maga­zine. Must have ca.-. Call Dan 272-5549 
Learn how to play pocket billiards in the poolroom of LaFOrtune Student Cen'er und•,. 'he Huddle. Just see the student f'IW\rl<_ler on du'y tor help. 
MORRISSEY LDAN RJND S'udent loans, $20-150. One day wait. One percent interest. Due in 30 days. LaRlr'une baserrent. M-F. ll :15-12:15. 
GIRLS!! ORGANIZATION FOR ALL INTESTEO IN WOMEN's SWIM CLUB. THURSDAY OCTOBER 13, at 7:30p.m 
IN UBRARY AUDITORIUM. QUES­TIONS CONTACT THE WOMEN'S ATHLETIC DEPTARTMENT OR CALL 8051. 
LDST AND FOUND 

FOUND: One student football ticket outside 1Rocco's Call Observer office to 
Black leather wallet. Need license and other 10. Reward call Robert' 1465. 
LDST: or stolen, broiM1 suede Mcgregor wat. On Oct. 3 inS. Dining Halt. Return and no questions asked. 
LDST: Black leather wallet in ACC. 
FOUND: Pair of girts shoes at the OT section party in 1\hlrrissey Friday night. Cal 3414. 
FOUND: On sidewalk 1976 Holy cross A-eparotory dass ring. Call Denise, 4-5402. 
FOUND: 10 Bracelet. 256-0819. Please 
LDST: BroiM1 wallet in ACC Raquetball oourt. Reward. Call Mirk at 1723. 
LDST: Silver tO bracelet at football game Sat. If found, please call Bien 7962. 
LDST: One pair of gold rimmed bi-focal glasses at pep-rally. Contact Kevin 1391. 
LDST: A navy blue Notre Dame wind­breaker. Uned. Brand new. No name. Left in North dining hall. Call Frank ­3215. 
LDST: National Serrioonducter caiOJiafor in O'Shag. Reward. Call 3336 or 3333. 
FOUND: Silver wire rimmed glasses outside the huddle in Oct. 4. To daim them call Diane, 7883. LDST: One purple jacket with Wlite pirate and Mil!onville. Call Mike 1679. 
WANTED 

4 usc tickets.....will pay good buCks. Call Jim at 1419. 
sou1hem Cal tix. Beth 
usc. Call 

I WILL BE FOREVER GARATERJL TO YOU if ~u will sell me a pair of GA tickets tor the USC game. My parents want to come and cheer tor Old Notre Dame. Will pay$$$$. Call Mary, 1313. 
Wanted: One student USC ticket. Call Chuck at 1436. 
Walled: Desperately need six GA tix to any horne game. Call Chris at 1158. 
Need four USC tickets GA. Will pay $, call Ron at 1423. 
Walled: 4 GA tickets tor Southern Cal. Will pay good bucks. Call 1423 and ask for Mike. 
Wanted : 5 usc tickets. Call Paul at 1424. 
Will pay $$ tor 2 Georgia Tech tickets. Mark8927. 
Will pay $$ tor 1\o\0 GA USC tickets. Mark 8927. 
Need tix for any home game. Will pay. Call 1276. 
USC student or GA tix wanted. West ooast dients will pay premium. 272-7360 after 6 p.m. 
Ned fix for any horne game. Call Sharon at 1261. 
Addresser; .vanted inmediately! Work at home . no Pxperience necessary -­excellent pay. /rite American Service, 8350 Park ~...ar~, suite 269, Dalllas Tx. 75231. 
Need six SoL hem Cal tix. Mark. 287-7051.. 
Need six GA Clemson tix. Call Leo 287-7051. 
Walled: 2 Student LSC tickets will pay $$. Call Suzy or Diane, 5148. 
Desperate: Need rrotel room USC IM!ekend. Call Jane 4872. 
Need 2 GA tickets for USCX.Call Cyndi at 6369. 
I need 2 GA USC tickets --Name price. Call 8182. 
Need ride to Woonsocket Rl. for Oct. break. Will share expenses. Call F\!te 8619. 
Need: Ride to Houston, Dallas, San Antonio, or Austin tor break.. Share expenses, etc. 2942. 
Need five USC GA tickets. Call Jim, 8376. 
Babysitter wanted tor 1\o\0 infants ­IM!ekdays, 3-4 p.m 233-9535 or 289-3668 
Desperately need 2-4 GA tickets to Navy. Please help. Call 4-4956. 
Help make a pregnant lady happy on her birthday: Sell her husband a ticket to USC (student or GAl. Call Mark 288-7466. 
W~ted: 4 tickets together to any horne game. Call 289-9530 (Debbie) after 6 p.m 
Desperately need ride for two to North Jersey(orewndose)Oct.23. Rob, 1145. 
Desperately need 1 usc ticket. Good $. Call Mike 3119. 
Will pay big buCks ror 2 good sc tixs. Mike3693. 
Need 2-6 GA tickets tor Tech or SoCal game. Call Tim at1133. 
Desperately need 3-4 tickets to usc Qarre. Call 287-8479. You name the price!!! 
SU budget shows total increase over last year 
[Continued from page 6] 
its budget with phone allotments. The Notre Dame campus, seen Commission would not waste A total of $2,300 alone was budget­here from atop the Memorial money. The commission, this year, ed for long-distance phone calls. Library, is the subject of a project will be sponsoring block parties, According to Gryp, however, the 
by six fifth year architecture dances, small concerts and theatre figure was ''a guess'' based on last students, under the direction of performances, Darby's Place, the year's phone expenses. Prof. Esmee Bella Ita, who has Quickie, Homecoming and several 
Submitted to the Board of Com­practiced Landscape Architecture campus contests. 

missioners at the same time as thein both Chile and England before In other areas, the Cultural Arts Student Union budget was a sepa­
coming to Notre Dame. The Commission received $25,000, a rate proposal for the "revitaliza­students are constructing a five­figure just under its proposed 
tion" of LaFortune Student Center. 
foot by seven-foot model of the budget. Among the major events University, and will study plans planned by that commission are the The plan, which required $7000 made by Ellerbe Associates, an Midwest Blues Festival, the Colle­in funding, would keep LaFortune architectural firm from Minne­giate Jazz Festival and the Sopho­open from 2 to 4 a.m. and make apolis responsible for much of the more Literary Festival. available a copy machine and a six university's modern architecture. Free University was allocated all foot viewing screen for television or 
[photo by Debbie Krilich] of the $2,055 requested, while video-cassette broadcasts. money for "Union Administration" The Board of Commissioners, was cut back approximately $1,300 according to Gryp, refused to to $9,731. discuss the plan. "It's disappoint­
One member of the Board of ing," he said, adding, "this idea Commissioners complained that could really turn LaFortune into a the Student Union had "padded" place the students can really use." 
Need 1-5 USC GA tickets. Good money. Cal Kevin, 8713. 
Wanted: SC tickets. will pay premium. Call oollect 714-498-3000. 
Will be diso1M1ed bv parents if I don't get Wanted: a love life, only beautifu< Christmas shop with Avon. Kathy, 79472 usc tix. Will pa, $$$$. Call Greg at females need apply. Ubrary aud., Friday for specials. 
1217. 
night 7 or 8:30 p.m. Bob W. Grace. Usa-Want $$? Need SOu em Cal vs. NO 
Need .-ide to Cincinnatti Hamillon or 
See, kiddo, I'm thinking of ~u.

footbal tixs Oct. 22 -~ 'OI"fs Tour at 3050 " ::ini1 y on Friday 21 October. Share today!!!!'
W. 7th Street, LA <. 1fif. 90005. Call e .penses. Jeff 8994. 
213-384-1951. Could 11so use 4 tixs for any horne game. 
Happy bir: 1day Mary, 
FOR SALE 
How was ~ur v.eekend. Ours was alotRich friends from US• will pay$$ for 2-4 of fun. A!ace, love, sex. and drugs, 

student or GA USC 1 ckets. Call Judy, 7375. Head professionasl tennis racket. Less 
FMTR than one year old, new gut strings, new 
Dear Margo L.eBren
Please-Need fotball fix to any horne leather grip, oover induded. Call We want to let ~ know that ~u are in
game. Call 289-6255. 283-8619. 
our thoughts. Hope ~·re enjoying ~ur subscription to the Observer. God bless.
Desperate: Need a ride to Tallahassee' Tidkets for sale: T\o\0 GA basketball area at start of October break. Will share tickets. Rlr best offer, call Gregg. 1159. 
5th RN expenses and driving. Call Bill 8858. Audio Outlet: Stereo equiprnemnt, tv's, 
Chinky,
'So. Cal vs. NO foolbal tickets Od. 22 -CB's lolklolesale. Call 7781. Sports Tour 3050 W. 7th Street.. LA. 
Still wearing the same helmet size? Are Tenn. chickens chasing after those bow­Calif. 90005. (213)384-1951 will pay$$$. 
legs? Stay way from Toads brew and ~u
Also, ooutd use four tickets to any horne game. 
v.(H'l't "get burned" Friday nights. PERSONALS 
Happy 17th billygoat!! Segatus??? Help! Desperate Damsel Direly Desires 
Big fig and Pudgy ride to Boston -New Eilgland for break. Will share expenses. Make like a hero. Right to NYC at X-mas-round trip $92. 
TO THE OLD 5TH FLOOR AND THE Call Ana 8828. Full payment at Student activities office, 
NEW ONE. TO THE KIDNAPPING LaFortune, Wednesday Od. 12 -Rna! 
SQUAD, MY 7:30 SURPRISE VISITORS, AND THE SHOT BUYERS. THANKS
Need 1 ticket (student or GAl to Air Rlrce day. game. Rease call 4-4809. 
FOR MAKING MY 21st A DAY AND A NIGHT I'LL NEVER FORGET.
Jayne and Sue, Need 2-4 GA tix for Army game at I always had a "queer " feeling in my 
JUUE Meadololltands. Cal Jim 1185. stomach. Thanks for explaining it to me. 
Bill Michael-The miles that 518parate us are great, but we're all with ~u on ~ur 21st. Need 2 GA tickets for Navy-AirRlrce Hope it's fanatastic.
Gate Warapius 
game. Call Claire 289-6533. TheGalQ
Enough of this childish play! Bob Griffin likes '>'OU ~d ~u aren't beingWanted: 4 GA USC fix. Call Frank. Jack-a Roo
very nice. Give him a call and talk to him 287-3844. Pay top dollar. Have a grrrreat Birthday!
-he's really very amiable!!! 1011 Ranner 
From Hairy and Dingy Need ride to Boston A-ovidence area tor October break. Will pay, drive. Call Pat, 1015
Will Tom Onterviewl Wittenberg reflux 
4-4146. Wffi ~ur "Southern" vacation
his bottom products on his 21st b-day? (Taint so, is it To?) 
"oomtortable?" Wanted: Several fidkets to Army game. 
Pat, Dave Ruester Call Lynchie at 1424. 
Congratulations and happy birthday Tom Desperately need one USC GA tix. Doug, .Jack Breath
Wittenberg. You're an adult now 
3336 or 3333. 'are ~ bragging or complaining?
<atrrostl. 
Oz

Pat, Dave, The Fam, Ruester, Kelley, Ride needed tor Oct. break to Washing-. 
Theresea and Marian ton D.C. area. Call l:mna 8042. Hey Gregg, How about taking me to see ''If I should 
To Farley's Rnest Angel , 
Need a USC ticket. Call 6814. die" Saturday nile at the Ub. Aud? 7 or
You are the fabric of our lives. H~y 
8:JO? You can affortl it --it's tree!!
birthday chie poops. You're golden. Working or college girt to share 2-bed­Nora
Three Muskateers room apt. near IUS B. Call 288-2418. C'mon Gregg -How about it. Give Nora
ROSIE. 
Desperately need 3 GA tickets to USC. a break.... I mean it's tree! !!
MY UGHT IS AS RED AS YOU WANT Will pay anything. Judie, 4980. 
IT. COME UPTO 1011 AND CHECK IT There is nothing like a legal Snave.
OUT!!!! 
Available-1 Student ticket USC. Needed 
R.ANNER -1 GA or Stiu Tic. Ga Tech. Call 1136. Please limit ~ur personals to the Observer, not the elevators.
Thanks tor coming, Mare Bear, ~u·re Oseperately need 2 GA tickets to USC. 
Lance Romance 

the greatest.Will pay any arrount. Mary LDu 4980. LDve, GS My Girt, I hope the future holds for ~u twofold
Gus-
the h~iness and love that was ours.
Would lo -e to go to Wash. DC area tor 
What a ooinddence that ~u and Hermie break bl: .-I need a ride. Call France have the same birthday. H~y 22. All LDve always, (6907) if .oo can help. Thanks. 
A. F. C. 

my love, 
ANYONE WITH USC TICKETS TO SELL NO GIMMICKS, I JUST Need TWO GA Gus Cifelli is really Rocky in disguise. FARLEY FOOTBALL TEAM Is GREAT! A~ DI'MWIWNGTO PAY FOR THEM. (l:m't I wish!) [Fartay 12-Lyons 8] Way to go, tum. DAVE-8589. bood Job, Ronl Gianelli-Help! Desperately need 2-5 USC tidlets. 
Whether on the Brave's roster or the Maryjane 3887. 
trading block. ~u'll always be a formi­dable phoque. Belated bonne anniver-The person who lives in 1011 Flanner wanted :one pair of football shoes, size wants the heat turned on.
saire 10V2-11, Tom 8270 Les phoques ph~tastiques 
Need ride to Kansas after usc game. Notre Dame bolollting league Is now Will share expenses. Call Mike 1679. forming Thursacty nights, 9:00 p.m, All room service to 1011 Fl1nner 1111 bien Regal Lane's in Mishawaka. Call cancelled until further notlca. 
Need one GA ticket to USC. Any Price. 
288-2614. Call 1043. 
LEWISIO'S JXfter all that print I bet you all want toSAVE MY LOVE UFE!! Need three GA Open this Friday at 7 pm Rne food & know who lives in 1011 Ranner, don'tusc tickets for girffriend and parents. 
entertainrrent. Rlone 3735 for reserval you? Come and find out!! 
Call RDcm, 1386. 
lions -info. 

--~-­

~onday, Ckiober10, 1977
the observer 

Notre Dame harriers finish fourth 
by Paul Stevenson Sports Editor 

Last Friday afternoon, the twenty-second annual Notre Dame Cross-Country Invitational Tour­nament, the largest race in the nation, was held at Burke Memor­ial Golf Course with Eastern Illinois University claiming top honors. 
The competition featured 45 schools, with the Panthers grabb­ing the number-one position with a low score of 81 team points. The University of Michigan and Cleveland State University finished second and third, respectively, with Notre Dame taking fourth place. Bl>wling Green University rounded out the top five. 
''The Notre Dame Invitational is an excellent meet," Eastern Illinois Coach Tom Woodall remarked. ''We've been coming here for mauy years and it certainly is a 


thrill t() win it. We had to defeat o.;,mJc really outstanding squads and that makes us very happy." 
The Panthers were paced by John Sheeran. who finished in seventh place with a time of 23:46, and Casey Reinking, who captured tenth posithm at a 23:50 clip.  junior Co-Captain Dennis Vander KraHs finished t!ighth overall to lead the Irish to a fourth place finish. [Photo by Dave Kiel] 23:47. Freshman Chuck Aragon well.'' Irish mentor Joe Piana captured seventeenth position in stress. "We w· re hoping to finish  Freshman Chuck Aragon captured seventeenth place in Frida1''S meet with a fine time of 23:47. [Photo by Dave Kiel] Cleveland State, who was clocked J.64 Gold Division runners with a at 23:46. Brian Nansel and Bob 1 24:06 time.  
The  Fighting  Irish  took  fourth  23:57 for  Notre  Dame  in  the  20  in the top tive  nd we ended up in  Lunn took second and third place,  The largest cross-country invita­ 
plal'C with IJI points, 38 markers  team Blue Division.  fourth,  so we'r..·  obviously pleased  respectively,  in  the  individual  tiona( in North America turned out  
hchind second-place Michigan and 29 points in back of Cleveland State who complied 102. Fifth place Bowling Green were 20 counts behind Notre Dame with lSI total  Steve Welch finished twenty­eighth and Dan Horgan ended up in the thirty-third spot for the impressive Irish in their Blue Division showing. Charlie Fox, Pat  about that. Dennis VanderKraats ran very well ani a big, though not unexpected, sun>rise was the per­formance of ·reshman Chuck Aragon. For a freshman, he had a  placement. Friday's second race which fea­tured the Gold Division small-college team<; found Saginaw Val­ley grabbing the top spot with 48  to be very successful. "All the work and preparation paid off," Piane commented. "The tourna­ment ran smoothly and was a great success."  
points. Junior Co-Captain Dennis VandcrKraats led the Irish harriers  Sullivan and Mike Maney finished forty-fifth, seventy-third and eighty-second, respectively.  great finish ar.d an outstanding time. Chuck definitely will be get better and has got a great future."  team markers. Marshall captured second with 107 points while St. Louis University finished in third  Notre Dame's next competition will be this Friday when the Irish will host the Indiana State Champ­ 
to eighth place finish with a time of  "I  thought  we  ran  extremely  Capturing the place honors was  individual first Mark Hunter of  with 158 points. Aquinas' Pat Weiler finished in first out of the  ionship meet at 4 p.m. on the Burke Memorial Golf Course  

*Observer Yankees edge Kansas City 
KANSAS CITY [AP] -Three outs fnr the first two Kansas City runs the head of Yankees center fielder from oblivion, the New York Yank­with his bat. Mickey Rivers. McRae raced ees struck for three runs in the Now, however, he gave the around the bases to score and Breet ninth inning on a rally fueled by Yankees their final run with a wild tore into third base, colliding with
Sports 
Paul Blair's leadoff single and throw to first base. Nettles on a close tag play. highlighted by Willie Randolph's That made it 5-3 and reliever As Nettles stumbled back, there sacrifice fly to defeat Kansas City Sparky Lyle nailed down the pen­was contact between the two 5-3 Sunday and capture their 31st nant in the bottom of the ninth, players, some angry words and American League pennant. getting pesky Freddie Patek to hit then swings. Both benches and 
With the dramatic, come-from­into a game-ending double play. bullpens emptied, creating an behind victory, New York charged It was the perfect ending to the immediate crush of bodies around into the 1977 World Series against see-saw Yankees season that often third base as the pre-game tension the Los Angeles Dodgers, begin­resembled a soap opera drama. The spilled over. ning Tuesday night in New York. Yankees won it with high drama But it was a typical baseball fight 
by Chip Scanlan After the initial demonstration Blair, in the lineup because of a highlighted, naturally by Jackson, with much pulling and tugging and Sports Writer the Irish will divide into two squads controversial decision by Yankees the benched slugger who had been ended quickly, considering the 
and scrimmage under game condi­Manager Billy Martin to bench fighting a 1 for 14 playoff slump traffic jam that all the players had 
tions while coaches Smith and slugger Reggie Jackson, touched that caused Martin to yank him. created at third base. Not sure about what is happen­Schafer comment on what is hap­off New York's last chance with a Going into the eighth inning, A moment later, Brett scored the ing on the ice during a hockey pening. "Sometimes something soft single to center against Dennis New York was trailing 3-1 against Royals' second run on a groundout game? Wondering about what kind happens so quickly that a fan will Leonard, who had come in at the left-bander Paul Splittorf, who had by AI Cowens, and Kansas City had of team the Irish are going to field? miss what has occurred. But if we start of the inning as the Royals kept them off balance most of the a quick 2-0 lead. Or do you just want to watch the can identify these finer points we tried to nail down their first-ever night. But when Willie Randolph The Yankees nicked Splittorff for Irish icers scrimmage, pick up a feel the night will be a learning American League pennant. opened with a single, Herzog lifted a run with two out in the third when complimentary autographed pic­experience," says Smith. Leonard, appearing in relief for Splittorff. Rivers singled, stole second and ture and then skate free for an Following the scrimmage the only the second time all season, Bird struck out Thurman Mun­scored on Munson's single. But hour? Then this Tuesday at 7:30 Irish will be available to sign an 8 x then walked pinch hitter Roy White son, the Yankees captain, but the Royals got the run right back in 
Notre Dame Hockey Expo 
p.m. the second annual Notre 14 team picture that will be handed and Royals Manager Whitey Her­Piniella singled Randolph to third. the third when McRae opened with Dame Hockey Expo is just the thing out to everyone in attendance. The zog brought in left-bander Larry Now, with the tying runs on base a double, moved to third on Brett's for you. players will also be able to pose for Gura to become the fifth Kansas an a right-hander pitching, Martin bouncer and scored on a single by 
Once again head coach Lefty pictures if any fans bring along City pitcher. sent Jackson up to pinch hit for Cowens. 
Smith is running this hockey extra­their camera. It was an ironic move because Cliff Johnson. But that was to be the final run fo vaganza to educate people who like Last season the Irish picked up Gura is an ex-Yankee who is often Jackson looped a soft single to the season for the Royals and the all the action and excitement several new fans who turned on to maligned by Martin and had been center, delivering the Yankees' Yankees, it turned out, were not hockey has to offer but just aren't hockey after making the effort to go knocked out by New York in the second run and making it 3-2. With finished quite yet. A good soap sure what is really going on. "Our out and watch a contest. This year third inning a day before. the tying run in scoring position, opera, after all, never is. objective is to explain the basic promises to be another exciting The move backfired when Herzog brought in left-bander situations and strategies that occur year for the Irish. Although the Mickey Rivers laced a Single to Steve Mingori. 
-
during the course of a hockey icers lost All-Americans Jack right, scoring Blair with the tying Mingori retired Graig Nettles on Hockey and Navygame," explains Smith. "Once Brownschidle and Brian Walsh and run and sending White dashing to a long fly to right and that brought you understand these situations, other top skaters, a strong nucleus third. Herzog went to his bullpen up Chambliss, who ripped a shot hockey becomes a very easy game is back and ready to challenge in again, this time bringing in Mark up the middle. Second baseman student ticket to understand." the WCHA. Littell. Frank White made a diving, back­
Startingat7:30 p.m. the 1977-78 "We're going to be a scrappy It was Littell who fed a home run hand stop and tossed to shortstop corrections edition of Irish hockey will be squad this year," notes co-captain pitch to the Yankees Chris Cham­Patek, forcing Jackson and ending introduced and then immediately Terry Fairholm. "We're going to bliss which won the pennant for the Yankees rally. Last week an article indicating following the players will begin have to hit, skate hard and do our New York in the ninth inning of the But the Yankees had one more the dates and times when hockey demonstrating the basic situations best to backcheck. We've got a fifth playoff game a year ago. rally left in their season and it student tickets could be obtained that arise during a game. This will strong nucleus returning, the best And the Yankees victimized him turned out to be the winning one in incorrectly stated that St. Mary's 
, include full strength, power play goaltending tandem in the WCHA again this time. Willie Randolph, the ninth. Until then, the Royals students could not pick up their 
and penalty killing action to expose and a crop of talented freshmen. the slender second baseman who had nursed a lead which Brett tickets until Thursday, October 13. the fan to the major situations he'll We certainly won't disappoint any learned his baseball on the sandlots single-handedly provided in the In fact, all students, both from be seeing. of our supporters." of New York City, drilled a long fly first inning in the midst of what Notre Dame and St. Mary's, can 
Smith's icers will also get a Now's the chance to get on the ball to center field that scored almost was a brawl at third base. obtain them from Tuesday, October 
chance to commit a few penalties hockey bandwagon. Come out, White with what turned out to be With one out in the first inning, 11 through Thursday, October 13, before the season gets. underway meet the icers and then get tuned the Yankees' winning run. Hal McRae, who had three hits for 8:30 am-4:30 pm. for the benefit of showing fans the in to the fine points of the game. After Thurman Munson the Royals, beat out an infield Also, last another article regard­
common infractions such as trip­Then when the Irish open their grounded out, Lou Piniella bounced single against Yankees starter Ron ing Navy student tickets failed to ping, slashing, boarding, charging home season against Michigan on what looked like a third-out yuidry, who was pitching on just include the fact that married stu­and hooking as well as offsides and November 4 you'll be as ready as grounder to Royals' third baseman two days' rest. dents can obtain tickets with their icing. the Irish. George Brett, who had accounted Brett then hit a long drive over class. 









