~----~--------~-------------------------·----------~----------------~--------------------------~ 

The Observer 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's Wednesday, February 9, 1977Vol. XI, No. 76. 
Hesbu_rgh questioned 
Foundation involved in abortion 
by Mike Shields Staff Reporter 
In protest of the Rockefeller 
Foundation's involvment with · abortion and sterilization proce­dures, national pro-life movement leaders have called for the resigna­tion of University president Fr. Theodore Hesburgh as chairman of 
the Foundation. 
Among the leaders of pro-life movement who have called for Hesburgh's resignation are Ellen McCormack, pro-life candidate for president in last year's Democratic primaries; Dr. Mildred Jefferson, president of the National Right to Life Committee; Nellie Gray, presi­dent of March for Life; and Randy Engel, executive director of the 
U.S. Coalition for Life. 
In an interview in the National 
CathoDe Register, (Feb. 6, 1977) 
McCormack commented that Fr. 
Hesburgh has acted on many 
human right issues, but "it's tragic 
that when it comes to the unborn . child, Father Hesburgh's vigor and indignation fail him." 
. In the same article, Gray stated, "I think it would be excellent if Fr. Hesburgh, who has provided so 

much leadership in moral fights used with even greater impact such as civil rights, would forego against the efforts of the right to putting his energies into the chair­life movement." manship of the Rockefeller Founda­
The Rockefeller Foundation istion and assume an active leader­
ship role in the most pressing also involved internationally with current civil rights fight, the pro­health, education, population, and 
world hunger. It spearheaded thelife movement." 
"Green Rev.olution," which has Kathy DuCharme, head of the · increased crop yields in many parts 
Indiana Right to Life Committee, stated that the arm of the Founda­tion that Hesburgh is involved with has nothing directly to do with abortion or sterilization, but that the Foundation as a whole has financed abortion and sterilization research. 
When questioned about the criti­cism, Fr. Hesburgh, who has been a trustee of the Foundation for 15 years, replied that he had ''re-· ceived universal applause, except for one small bit of criticism that I do not intend to answer. If you let one swallow make a spring, you will always be in trouble." 
·Jefferson said in the National CathoDe Register article that she believes that Fr. Hesburgh's post could actually be used by pro-life opponents to hinder the movement. She stated, "It is difficult to see how his chairmanship would not be 
HEW lifts moratorium on two flu vaccines 
by Michael Putzel Associated Press Writer 
W ASHINGTON[AP] • The Depart­ment of Health, Education and Welfare lifted its moratorium on two flu vaccines yesterday. The department recommended that the elderly and people with chronic illnesses get a shot that could protect them from both the swine flu and the A-Victoria strain. 
. 
The action allows health officials to again use the combined swine flu and A-Victoria flu vaccine. It also allows the use of another vaccine intended to protect against the milder B-Honl't Konl't flu. 
The moratorium remains in ef­fect, however, for the swine flu­only faccine that was widely pro­moted for all Americans before Decembet-. 
Removal of the moratorium was taken because of an outbreak of A-Victoria influenza in a Florida nursing home. The nation has no stockpile of A-Victoria vaccine but it does have about 27 million doses of the combined vaccine. 
HEW Secretary Joseph A. Cali­fano, Jr., told a news conference elderly individuals and other with chronic illnesses have a high risk of suffering serious adverse conse­quences if they get the flu. "I t is particuarly important to reach such persons who are in nursing homes and health care institutions where influenza can spread most rap­isly," he said. 
But Califano made it clear he does not intend an . early r~tur~ to.. 

the hard sell promotion that the 
U.S. Public Health Service con­ducted before officials discovered a statistical link between flu shots and Guillain-Barre Syndrome, a rare but occasional fatal form of paralysis. 
"If an epidemic of A-Victoria appears imminent, a situation which, it should be emphasized, does not presently exist, then the Public Health Service will promptly begin an extensive campaign to immunize the high risk category" with the combined vaccine, he said. 
Otherwise, any immunization pro­gram will be up to state and local health officials. 
Those officials also can give shots to people not in the high risk category. But since there are about 22 million unvaccinated high risk people in the country and only 27 million doses of vaccine, it is expected that remaining doses will be saved for those most likely to be exposed to the A-Victoria virus, such as those who care for the sick. 
The vaccine cannot be given legally unless those receiving them sign what is known as an informed consent form. That form currently is being rewritten to tell people that the shots may increase their risk of contracting Guillain-Barre Syn­drome. 
Califano said persons in the high risk category who get the flu have 1,260 chances out of one million of dying. Statistics indicate that for the same group the risk of dying for Guillain-Barre after getting a flu shot is about one in one million. 
of the world. 
N_umbe_r of unw~d couples living t~gether increases 
WASHINGTON [AP] -The number of unmarried couples living toge­ther in the United States has risen dramatically in the past six years, with the sharpest increase reported among individuals under age 45, a Census Bureau report disclosed yesterday. 
For-the population as a whole, the number of couples living toge­ther has doubled. But among persons under age 45, the increase has been nearly fivefold, the Cen­sus Bureau said. 
The increase parallels another finding that Americans are getting married at a later age. But a Census analyst declined to specu­.late whether shared-living arrange­ments are causing couples to postpone marriage or whether later marriages are causing unmarried 
couples to live together. 
Despite the increase in the number of unmarried couples liv­ing together, shared living ar­rangements constitute about one percent of all households. 
"Ultimately it looks like marri­age as an institution is still with us," said Arthur J. Norton, chief of Census' marriage and family statis­tics branch. 
The Census report said 1.3 million persons last year lived in two-person households shared by unrelated persons of the opposite sex. That compared to 654,000 individuals in 1970 and 484,000 in 1960. 
The same report showed that the 1976 median age for an individual's first marriage was 23.8 for men and 
21.3 for women, an increase of about a year over the median recorded in 1966. 
The ages, however, are still below the median ages of 24.3 for men and 21.5 for women recorded at the start of World War I. 
Like other reports on marital status and living arrangements in recent years, the latest also showed more couples are getting divorced. There were 75 divorced individuals for ever 1,000 married persons living with their spouse last year, compared to 47 per 1.000 in 1970. 
The report cited greater accep­tance of the principle of later marriage, a longer period of time spent getting an education, and increased job opportunities for women as apparent factors in the movement away from early marriage. 


SMC library enters 25th year 
by Jean Powley Staff Reporter 

Editor's note: This is the first of a two-part series on St. Mary's Alumnae Centennial Library. The first part deals with the Ubrary's history, while the second part will deal with Its future. 
Fifty thousand dollars -that's what Sister Madeteva, president of St. Mary's from 1934-1961, asked of alumnae in 1936 to "cover the expense of a library building such as we would need. I am holding the library fund which you have be­gun," she wrote to alumnae, "and letting that accumulate toward meeting the expense of furnishing the library." 
Throughout the 41 years since Sister Madeleva first asked alum­
nae to support a new library, Courier, the college's alumnae publication, has reported on every facet of the building's develop­ment. "Ground for the new Centennial Library has been bro­ken!", reported the August, 1941 issue. "Frances Lyon '17, past president of the association, gave a brief summary of the manner in which the necessary $110,000 has been raised: in 1935, Mrs. George Rempe, for herself and her seven alumnae daughters, gave $25,000 to St. Mary's toward a new library; in 1937, St. Mary's College was made the beneficiary of the Breen Estate, in Fort Wayne, of a little more than $41,000, to be used for the purposes of education; and within the past two years, through the efforts of the alumnae, another sum of approximately $36,000 was 
received." 

Flanner's own "pinball wiz­ard," Terry Buczkowski, will conduct his popular Free University class on playing pinball tomorrow night at 7:00pm, in Flanner's Amer­ica [game room, basement of 
Pinball 


Wizard 
Lafortune] 
. .. . . . 
A yearlater, on June 5, 1942, the library was blessed and dedicated by John F. Noll. Headed by the Papal and American flags, a great procession left LeMans Hall and moved across the campus to the strains of the national anthem to the terrace of the library where the dedication took place." 
Noted in the ceremony was the fact that the Centennial Library was "the gift of the Holy Cross, Alumnae Association of St. Mary's College to the Sisters of the Holy Cross, in commemoration of their hundredth anniversary of founda­tion." 

"Miracles still occur," the Au­gust, 1943 Courier proclaimed. ''This French Provincial structure of brick and stone is still 'the stuff of which dreams are made,' as it 
·looks down upon Lake Marian, and for the first time, perhaps, gives that bit of water real significance." 

The library ~as opened for use iD summer school in 1942. "'ijle bright spacious reading rooms, browsing nooks, the display cases, periodical room, and lounges mark a new era at St. Mary's,"reported the November, 1942 Courier. "The steady stream of students between the porte cochrer at LeMans Hall and the library proves the new building's popularity." 
However, the new library was not yet complete. It's third floor, which originally contained a rare book room, an exhibit and display section and seminar rootns, was not finished until 1945. Construction on the top floor was designed and directed by F.W. Kervick, former head of the department of architec­ture at Notre Dame. 
Meanwhile, the rooms of the old library under the chapel in LeMans Hall (now a group of residence rooms known as "Queen's Court") was transformed into an art studio. 
Today, 41 years after Sister Madeleva's initial plea for alumnae support of the new library, "the brigh~ spacious reading rooms" are crowded with stacks of books; "the browsing nooks are ceiling-to-floor shelves of books; "the display cases" have been removed; and the periodical room, cramped and inadequate, has made room for more stacks of books than for periodicals, both bound and unbound. 
Although the staff of the library still tries to offer first-rate service to all of its 1700 students and 107-"plus" faculty members, it obviously does so under less-than­desirable circumstances . 
' 
. ' 
the observer Wednes~ebruary 9, 1977 
,_,_On Campus Today-
noon -brown bag luncheon, "mirages of memory: 200 years of indiana art," by marilyn holscher, nd, art gallery 
3:25pm -lecture, "regeneration of sulfonated dolomites in a fluidized bed," by dr. g.j. vogel, argonne national laboratory, sponsored by chemical engineering dept., chemical engineering bldg., room 269 
5 pm -mass, respect for life mass, sacred heart church 
5:15 -mass, for all world hunger coalition fasters everyone welcome, walsh chapel ' 
6:45 pm -meeting, al-alon fellowship for family and friends of those with a drinking problem, memorial library, room 400 
8 pm-basketball, holy cross at n.d., ace 
8 pm-music festival, danzas venezuela. columbia artists pres~nts a musical choreographic festival featuring 42 smgers, dancers and musicians, sponsored by performing arts series, o'laughlin aud., admission $3.50 general, $2 students. 
On drinking bill 

Senate takes action 
by Cathy Nolan Senior Staff Reporter 
With action still pending on Michigan senate bills 31 and 32, Senator Alvin DeGrow introduced another bill in the senate to amend the drinking age from 18 to 21. 
DeGrow's bill, introduced Thurs­day, Feb. 3, follows earlier bills, 
S.B. 31 and 32, sponsored by Senator James DeSana, D-Wyan­dotte, on Jan. 25 to raise the legal age from 18 to 19. 
DeGrow, R-Pidgeon, introduced two bills that would amend the state's penal code and liquor i control act to prohibit the sale of . alcoholic beverage to anyone under 21. 
DeGrow cited the abuse of 
alcohol in the high schools in Michigan as the prime factor for amending the drinking law. ''A large number of teachers and educational administrators have expressed concern to me about the abuse of alcohol among high school . students, particulary 14 and 15 
year-olds." 
DeGrow noted strong peer pres­sure among high school students, resulting in the misuse of alcohol by students unaware of its possible affects. "All people have a tendency to associate with their friends. This unity is especially tight among high school kids," DeGrow commented. 
"With the lowered drinking age 
of 18, the 14 and 15 year-old group 
had greater contact with alcohol," 
DeGrow continued. When Michi­
gan voted to lower the drinking age 
from 21 to 18, it heightened the 
accessibility of minors to obtain 
liquor, according to DeGrow. 
When asked why he recom­

;f:The Observer 
Night Editor: John Calcutt Asst. Night Editors: Frank Kebe, Jack "I want a raise" D'Aurora Layout Staff: Paula Carroll Debbje Dahrling ' Editorial Layout: Pat Hanifan Sports layout: Frank LaGrot­ta, Fred Herbst Typists: Nancy Cueroni Anne Giere, Kathy Egbert, ' Mary Ann Coor E.M.T.: Martha Fanning Day Editor: Chris Datzman Copy Reader: Katie J(erwin · Ad Layout: Tom Walraith 
r The Observer is published Monday through Fnday and weekly during the summer session, except during the exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for S20 per year (S10 per semester) from The Obser­ver, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
The Observer is a member of the 
Associated Press. All reproduction 
rights are reserved._ 
' 

mended raiSing the age to 21 rather 
than 19, as DeSana proposed in his 
bill, DeGrow stated, "If the age 
were raised to only 19 it would still 
be too easy for those underage to 
obtain liquor from their friends. 
After talking with school officials in 
my district, I am convinced that the 
drinking age must be raised to at 
least 20, and preferably to 21, if we 
are going to attempt to solve the 
drinking problem." 
DeGrow returned to his home 

territory of Pidgeon, Mi. last 
weekend and noted a positive 
response to the bill among his 
constituents. "I had many people 
stop me on the street and tell men 
they agreed with what I was trying 
to do. In fact, I have not really 
received any negative response as 
of yet," he said. 
Relating the general drinking 

problem in Michigan high schools 
to his own district, DeGrow said he 
represented a district comp!!sed of 
small towns with populations of 
less that 3000. Most of the high 
school graduates are 18, DeGrow 
remarked, and 60 to 85 percent of 
these students leave home to 
attend college or begin a job in the 
metropolitan centers. 
"However, a small percent of 

kids, basically troublemakers, stay 
in town and contribute to the 
drinking problem by giving alcohol 
to children as young as 13," 
DeGrow explained. DeGrow ex­
pressed hope that the higher · drinking age would alleviate this problem. .. DeGrow did not anticipate any major conflict between his bill and · · [Contblued on page 7]
.,_-...........----·--______, 
Membership entitles you to: 
1 BUCKET OF BEER (5112 Lite,.) 
5 Sl.OO·OFF COUPONS lor FAMILY SIZE PIZZA (18"1 


Students to ~eceh~e departmentaJ exam quest1~~na1r~ this week 
by Pete Newell 

A questionnaire regarding de­partmental exams, will go out to students by the end of this week, according to William Biles, vice­
chairman of the Faculty Senate.  A  
second questionnaire,  directed  to  
faculty, is still being drawn up.  

The student questionnaire is the product of two months of work by an eight-person committee, spon­sored by the Faculty Senate. The committee is comprised of repre­sentatives from the Faculty Senate and the student body. "We tried to cover all the bases," said Biles, "and we believe that every group in the University is represented ~xcept for Off-Campus students." 
Biles added that he plans to confer with some 0-C students in order to get their views on the departmental exams. 
The purpose of the survey, according to Biles, is to see "how the student is affected by the departmental exam." More speci­fically, the committee would like to know such things as whether the 8 
a.m. departmental allows enough time for preparation and whether students get enough rest the night before the exam. Biles added that 
Erratum 

. The Faculty Overnight Retreat, dtrected by Frs. David Burrell and John Gerber, will be held Feb. 18-19, not Feb. 8-9 as reported in Monday's Observer. 



Mardi Gras correction 

Yesterday's article on Mardi 
· · ,~how wllege I.D._ &? ge · .$1.00 off 16" Family 
.

Stze Pizza! 

._ . 401 N. Hickory Rd. T&C 
31N. at Darden-Rd 
he hopes the survey will also ;bow, · to _learn ''just what the faculty 
"how student activities such as beheves has to be done to adminis­concerts, lectures and the like, are ter a valid, uniform, written exam affected by an evening department­in the required time length and al." with proper security." 
The faculty questionnaire, which The student questionnaire, will is being directed to the "teaching be sent to 1600 students. The faculty,'' according to Biles, is not results, tabulated by computer, are yet completed. From the survey, expected to be evaluated by the 
Biles said that the committee hooes end o(. tbiUlli!!!t!t_·_ 


KEN'S DEN 
--HAIR STYLING-­MEN &WOMEN ACROSS FROM 1 00 CENTER (LINCOLNWAY WEST IN MISHAWAKA) PHONE 255-6500 APPOINTMENTS PREFERRED 
t 

OPEN MON.-SAT. Bi If Mahn 9-lt 

attention seniors ... 
--·-­
last hundred days till graduation weekend 

... 

Friday: Happy Hour at Kubiak's 3-6om pitchers $1.50 
Dog Book night Saturday: ·at the senior bar specials to be announced later 
' ­




--~ ---~-~-----~---~~-----------..... 
3 

Fr. Hesburgh discusses hunger battle research 
by Joan Fl'emeau 
Fr. Theodore Resburgh dis· cussed the accomplishments of biological research in agriculture during a seminar, "Global Justice: Biological Perspectives" in Galvin auditorium yesterday afternoon. 
Hesburgh told a near-capacity crowd that ''food is a matter of social justice. Hunger is a part of everyone of us and having enough to eat is essential to our well being." he said it is man's duty to provide enough to eat for the starving people of the world. 
The Rockefeller Foundation, of which Hesourgh-has recently been named chairman, donates "about I60 million per year for the good of mankind and has, in recent years, emphasized funding of medical and population control programs and food-production programs, accord­ing to Hesburgh. 
''The Rockefeller Foundation was concerned about the problem of greater food production long before the recent world food cri­sis," Hesburgh noted. "Rocke· feller (Foundation) found a short­cut to greater food production through improving genetic stocks of grains." 
For over ten years the Founda­tion has funded world-wide biologi-
Blacks urged to take note· of heritage 
JContin~ed from page 6] __ 
the white standard. "Consequent· 
ly," she said, "basic grammar is 
'talking white.' Common courtesy 
is 'acting white,' balanced diets is 
'eating white' and interracial con­
versation is 'kissing white.' " 
Proctor mentioned the heritage of blacks should be acknowledged with pride. Blacks in America today are the descendants of kings and queens, she said, adding that the blacks who came to America captured by slave traders were the best because they "super-survi­ved.'' The blacks who concluded the journey were "truly the most magnificent specimen of human beings known to man." 
'"My challenge to you tonight is to return to reason," Proctor said. She pointed out the need for strong and healthy bodies and minds, the quest for knowledge, economic gain, strong family ties, a sense of decency and a quest for freedom. 
'.'This is a messy world. But you can change only one thing in it, really · yourself," she said. 
~tudents, _Staff, & Rectors 
l~otre Dame Students ue Co· Sponsoftl of Open Seminar on Nadonal Interest on Alcohol. Governor Bowen bas declared February Alcohol-Awueness· 
Action Month. This week South Bend is high Ughting subject "Booze and You." Don Newcomb, Black Spo~ Figure, is guest speaker in Ubrary Auditorium, Thunday lOFeb., 7:30 p.m. Curiosity seekers, interested parties and dissidents ALL welcome. 
-

ATTENTION JUNIORS ! INTERESTED IN RUNNING YOUR OWN STUDENT BAR? 
APPLY FOR THE POSITIONS OF SENIOR {SAR. MANAGERS 
Head Mana_ger-in charger of all financial matters (books~ bills, etc.) must be an accountina maior 
Assistant Manager-in charge of employee hirin~ _schedulinRt and stocldng_ Qf bar Assistant Manag__er-in charge of advertising, promotion, and special nights 
HOT 006$ ~ Pick u_p application at the Office _of S_tudent ~ Affairs (rm. 315 ad. bldg.) or the senior bar. Deadline Wed. Feb. 16 
cal research in growing staple grains com, which tripled protein intake such as rice, wheat, sorghum ani:f and' could be grown in mliny corn, Hesburgh noted. By study­different climates. ing every species of a certaitl grain The RockefellerFoundationset up and combining the best elements in research in Pakistan where a wheat each, research teams have been shortage caused extensive starva­able to produce superior strains tion. After the fourth year of a which adapt to different environ· five-year program to improve the ments, produce more grain per stock, Pakistan experienced a acre, and have more protein, he wheat surplus. explained. Genetic research has also helped 
The first such research effort India, as well as countries in Africa began in the Phillippines to im· and South America, improve their prove the rice crop, Hesburgh said. grain production. Such increases 
While developing these strains of in food production in tum stimulate rice, farmers were taught new the countries' economies and pre­irrigation and fertilization me· vent starvation. thods. Research also created new Once genetic problems are sol· insecticides to prevent the crop ved Hesburgh said, "we could from destruction by moths and further increase food production by rats. studying ways of increasing water 
"In less than ten productive supplies, either through water years we had turned out 15 control systems, or by converting superior varieties of rice," he said. sea water to fresh water.'' 
Hesburgh explained that upon In a question-and-answer period the success of this experimenta­following his lecture, Hesburgh tion, the Foundation funded insti­considered the problem of overpop· tutes in other parts of the world to ulation. "Through more study study genetic improvements of mechanisms can be produced to grain stocks. In Mexico, research effectively, by following natural 
.>J A~
~-E AND ~vn 
-_~_NERAL sr0~)·G Papers ~ Pipes and Acces' s 113 W. Monroe St.
' 
So. 


TEACHING POSITIONS Math -PhystcsEngineering degrees 
. The U.S. Navy has a limited number of openings 
for teachers in its graduate and undergraduate 
level Nuclear Engineering Program. This is a 
highly selective program which does not require a 
teaching degree or prior experience, but does 
require exceptional undergraduate academic ac­
complishment in Math, Physics, or Engineering. 
Star1ing pay $10,500 and increases to $16,00 in 
three years plus full benefits and privileges of a 
Naval Officer. This is a teaching position only, 
there are no military duties. 

REQUIREMENTS 
AGE: Maximum 28 SEX: Male or Female CITIZENSHIP: U.S. Citizen EDUCATION: Minimum undergraduate GPA 3.5 in Math, Physics, or Engineering 
Interviews at Placement Office 14-16 February.. 
lation growth." won't prevail unless we make a 
Hesburgh concluded the seminar commitment to people rather than with some comments on global armaments. Scientists should take justice and scientific responsibility, an oath to serve for the good of saying that science has come up mankind rather than for man's with enough weaponry to destroy destruction. Science should not be the world in 15_ $econds. "Mankind abused.'' 
~--wwmrmr-mrmr--mrmr•' e Stud•J'It Unio_n SodaI_ Co~mission i_nvites you~ to see.\ 
•

The 
IZ 
Award Winning Broadway Play 
At the Schuber1 Theater in Chicag~ 
Friday February 25th 
Buses leave the Main Circle at 6:00 pm. 
Price: $19.00 per person 
Tickets go on sal~ Thrusday Februarv 1Oth. 
Student Union Ticket Office, 12 -4 daily 
Cuality seating and round trip bus transpor1ation 
Hmited ticket supply but more buses will De I 
added. 

~ iJ •wwmrmrmr•~--J!I-WW•_II!P~, 
Dutch Audion at Mr. Motor Home!!! liMITED BICENTJ:NNJAL EDITION LUXURY FREEDOM VAN R~D_UCED $1.00 EVERY HQ~R SI~CE J~N. 15.  

 
ORIGINAL f'R!CE $9,995.00 MR. MOTOR HOME DISCOUNT 995.00 JANUARY 15 PRICE $9,000.00 AND GOING DOWN AT THE RATEOF$1 PER HOUR UNTIL SOLD! 10844 MCKINLEY HWY. Mr. Motor Home OSCEOLA, IND. 674-9937  

Send her the FTD 
LoveBundleM 
Bouquet for 
Valentine's 
Weekend 
Reach out and 
touch her with this 
FTD LoveBundleno 
Bouquet. Your 
FfD Florist can 
send one almost 
anywhere by wire, the 
FfD way. Order early. (Most FfD Usually available $1500* 

Florists major credit cards.) for less than 
*As an independent businessman, each FfD Member Florist sets his own prices. 
Say FTD...and be sure. 
© 1977 Florists' Transworld Delivery 


~ --~--~--~-~ 
EDITORIAl BOARD Thomas O'Neil Editor.:'in-Chief
"*The..Q~§~r.~~r 
Dan Sanchez Managing Editorserving notre dame and st. mary's 
Chris Smith Asst. Managing Ed. The Observer is published by students of the University of Gregg Bangs Executive Editor Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. It does not necessarily Val Zurblis Executive Editor reflect the policies of either institution. The news is repor~ed Pat Hanifin Editorial Editor as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editonals 
Tim O'Reiley Features -Editor represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Boar~. Bob Mader Exec. News Editor 
Maureen Flynn Campus Editor
Commentaries, opinions and letters are the Views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the Marti Hogan St. M~ry's Editor 
Kathy Mills News Editor
community, and letters are encouraged to promote the free Barb Breitenstein News Editor
expression of varying opinions on campus. Don Reimer Copy Editor 
Box Q 

Marth~ L. Fanning Production EditorBusiness Manager Tom Fronczak 
Notre Dame

Advertising Manager Mike Miller Ind. 46556 Tom Byrne c'ontributing EditorPhoto Editor Tony Chifari 
Wednesday, Februa_ry 9, 1977 

C?pin ion !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
A Typical Dol'll~r? 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii ji~~ing 
Who is the Notre Domer? This is pride of Notre Dame is everywhere an important question every mem­to be seen. Extremely clever ber of the Du lac community must posters carrying carefully ask himself. It is an especially concealed sexual unnuendo (e.g., important question for graduating "Trojans burst under pressure") 
. seniors, for as they fill out resumes announce to the world the upcoming and personal statements, it is -contest. The stadium is rapidly essential to "KNOW THYSELF." filled with the loudest, most arro· . Not everyone can be a Domer, as gant fans ever to assemble since any high school senior who has the days of the Roman Colliseum. tried to gain admission to the And ifthe team has a losing season University but who has unfortunat­(8 wins and 3 losses, for example .. ) ly scored less than 1200 on his well, Notre Dame's pride is at stake SAT's, lettered in only one varsity and sorry, Coach, but the crowd 
P.0.Box Q 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiii 

Catholic school system and -Catho­lic home life certainly are reflectedInterested in our dating habits. Hunger
Second, physical appearance is not taken into account. Althoughin 'Dating' the authors asked questions con­Feature cerning "prudish" girls and guys "dating for sexual reasons", a
Dear Editor: Dear Editor: 

more interesting question might be 
I would like to commend Ellen 

"How much does an attractive
McLaughlin and John Pallacqua for physical appearance have to do I was disappointed with the 

allowing their sociology term paper innocent naivete in Jack
with your asking for or accepting a 
to be published in Tuesday's D' Aurora's article on the problem
date?" The answers would be: 
Observer. The dispelling of many of world hunger. To begin with,
a) Everything
of the rumors and stereo typing of b) a major factor the contributions of relief organiza­students here is valuable in in­tions (Including those sponsored by 
c) a minor factor 
creasing a better social atmosphere the World Hunger Coalition) are
d) nothing at all 
at Notre Dame and St. Mary's. The third problem concerns the relatively minor when compared to However, some of their conclusions ' the overall problem. Large sums of
intellectual atmosphere of the cam­
seem a little misguided. pumped annually into
pus. Everyone here is intelligent money are 
The conclusion ''that the lack of these problems with only moderate 
(relatively) and most people want
dating is not the fault of the <;Uccess. The cost far outweighs
to form "deep meaningful relation­
individual, but of the institution of the benefit because what is intend­
ships". This is fine as long as it
which he is a part" is grossly doesn't get in the way of having . ed for the poor and starving is not wrong. I have been to many always what is received.
fun. 
campuses across the country, and For example, while in the mili­
In concluding, the authors say a
the attitudes that prevail here also long hard look at dating problems tary I observed the abuse of charity flourish at other colleges, regard-1 and relief packages overseas.

is needed. I personally feel we
less of affiliation, size, or the 

need to loosen up, not get more Shipments would be dumped on 
infamous male/female ratio. The uptight over the situation. We the docks and mysteriously disap­amount of dating, even on the pear--only to show up later on the
need to quickly open lines of

smallest campuses is due primarily black market. CARE packages
communication, act impulsively,
to the initiative, or lack thereof, of could be purchased for a carton of
spontaneously.
the individual. The student must cigarettes.
No matter what the University

carry the bulk of the responsibility Boxes labelled "A Gift From The 
does, the problem can best befor his dating. solved by asking someone out on a People Of The U.S.", or "Not 
Many students, including my­Intended For Sale", are prominent
date TODAY! Taking action is the
self, are at times somewhat dis­in street stalls in the Orient. This is 
only way to solve this problem.
couraged by the campus attitude. Mike Marley a fact of life in some underdevelop­If ''92 percent of the females feel it ed countries. Food and medical 
is all right for a woman to ask a supplies intended for free distribu­man out on a date,'' I am afraid the tion often end up in the hands of 
woman meant "for a woman other government officials, who in turn
Bowling

than myself,'' otherwise nearly all sell the packages to the peopleof us seem to know the other 8 
meant to receive them. percent. The myriad problems involved in 
Anyone?
Granted, the suggestions for implementing a world grain re­facility improvement are not only Dear Editor: serve, and a world-wide "Right to valid but much needed. Only 

I read with interest the Obser· Food Resolution", are too complexthrough student action will any­ver's February 1 article entitled: to· be confined to moral delibera­
thing get accomplished. And so far "The Dating Game at Notre tion. Suffice it to say tha neither more students enjoy complaining 

Dame." Towards the end of this are viable solutions at the present
rather than remedying the situa­article the authors make the re­time. tions. commendation that perhaps the As we have learned, hopefully,Zahm-Walsh are co-sponsoring a University could construct a bowl­careless idealism results in more ski trip later this month precisely ing alley to facilitate social interac­harm than good. Was Vietnam so because the two halls have had tion between students. long ago? Americans have 
a little contact in the past. Is the I seem to rememher that there is tendency to create enemies, not University repsonsible for this pre­a bowling alley already here on friends, with their good intentions. vious lack of socializing? No, not campus. No kidding, word of honor Thus, the Wednesday night fast anymore than they are responsible etc. I think it is located in the is an expression of part-time piety, 
for having the ski trip. 

basement of the bookstore. The and blatantly superficial. Sacrifi­
The day I depend on the Univer­

thought surely is astounding (to say cing a meal at the dining hall maysity for my dates is the day I die. the least) but perhaps some "in­be of some spiritual benefit, but is We should be responsible for our 
vestigative reporting" would ex­bereft of any practical value. The 
own dates, not passing the buck to ru­Coalition would de to
pose this glaring, implicative better ad­"the University" for our shyness, 
mor as, hopefully, being true. The dress itself to the more real our discouragement and most of 
existence of one would be a sad problems of organization and con­all, our laziness and apathy. 
commentary on the University's trol in the present distribution Mike Volberding concern for social interaction. system. 
Eric P. Phllippsen Chuck Kulig 
Oversights 
MAN, THIS IS NOI'e!81/T 
f£TTIN6SlfHXJS! I'M60JN6 arr 1111/lfABIXJT 7115-IDA/70 TAKe
in 'Dating' 
CAR.? HAS ff ANtlTIIER toOl< 77JfQa)UPYfiT'P FOR.IT.. 
Dear Editor: After reading The Observer 
' 
Feature on the problems of dating at Notre Dame this phrase comes to mind: Those who are not part of the solution are part of the prob­lem. 
In their effort to be part of the solution, the authors left out sev­eral important factors concerning dating here at Notre Dame. 
First, nearly everyone here is Catholic. The effects of the sport, and did not have a father, cries, "Thumbs Down!". twelve uncles, and seven brothers graduate from Notre Dame can The Domer is concerned. And te!'"•'&y. this concern issues into involve­

! o not intend to stereotype the ment. Perhaps you've noticed the Domer. All stereotypes are invalid, Domer's concern and involvement except perhaps, as every Domer in politics if you've tried, unsuc­knows, those which involve those cessfully, to get your name on the spacy, but wealthy girls over at St. waiting list of the Notre Dame Mary's. Nevertheless, there are chapters of the Young Republicans three qualities which, in my or the Young Democrats. The opinion, distinguish the Domer Domer · is also concerned with (and look good on resumes) from individuality. As a result, no other college students. The Domer matter where he goes, the Domer is proud, concerned and prepared. blazes his own trail. Evidence for 
this are the various footpaths that 
The Domer takes pride in Notre the Domers have beaten across the Dame and in his status as a Domer. grass. No, sir, you can't torce tile 
This sense of pride is instilled in Domer to stay on the concrete! the Domer in one of two ways. For The Domer is concerned about the"Established" Domer, pride in world hunger. Did you know that Notre Dame is a way of life, a part some. Domers give up one whole of growing up. He is barely out of meal a week to help alleviate this his Notre Dame plastic pants when problem? Think of it __ for one hour he is initiated into the circle of every week, many Domers sacrifice relatives who gather in front of the food fights and girl-rating sessions television every appropriate Satur-to help out some poor starving day afternoon to express their pride Indian or Biafran. in Notre Dame. Incidentally, it is The Domer is concerned aboi£ on these afternoons that the young free speech. For example, several Domer first learns the wide vocab-times a year a preacher from one of ulary he will so proficiently use the local churches visits Notre when in att.endance at Notre Dame. Dame and preaches outside the 
After a chtldhoo~ of hand-me-down dining halls. In no time at all a Notre D.ame t-sh1rts, Notre Dame large crowd of Domers assemble ~weatsh1rts, Notre D~me nylon and exercise their right of free Jackets, Notre Dame .kmt hats, an.d speech· by anonymously hurling Notre me bumper sbck~rs (for his insults and obscenities to the lone 
fir~t Chevy), the established Domer itinerant. 
amves on ~ampus. rea~y to show The Domer is prepared. Four the ~orld h1s well-mgramed sense years of immersion in Notre -Dame of pr1de. life has prepared the Domer for the rigors of the outside world. The
The "Immigrant" Domer (the business and science majors haveDomer who has had no known studied long and hard to gainrelatives, living or dead, graduate admission into their chosen career
from Notre Dame) is at a decided disadvantage. He must quickly garner the sense of pride that the established Domer has had for years. On his first day, therefore, the immigrant Domer hurries over to the Notre Dame Bookstore, where he purchases a Notre Dame t-shirt, a Notre Dame sweatshirt, and Notre Dame sport shirt, a Notre Dame nylon jacket, a Notre •  -­so what if they can't write a sentence correctly? The Liberal Arts major has studied long and hard for graduate work -­so what if he has a little trouble balancing his checkbook? These things are of little import, for as every Domer knows, every employer is looking for a man with a degree from Notre Dame.  1  
Dame wastebasket, a Notre Dame ashtray, a Notre Dame lamp, a Notre Dame drinking mug, and Notre Dame bumper stickers (for. his parents' VW) in an effort to mask  The Domer is prepared to enter into a healthy heterosexual rela­tionship and eventually give a son of his own the opportunity to become a member of the Notre  
his "greenhorn" status. These efforts are usually in vain, however for as soon as the Domers start  Dame family. From freshman to senior year, the Domer gathers with his fellow D'omers at one of the  
swapping Notre Dame stories, it becomes all too apparent to the  local establishments on Eddy Street to discus,s the various me­ 
established Domers that the im­migrant doesn't even know.who the  thods of preparation for such a prospect. How can one know this?  
assistant director of intramural sports was in '03 (the same year all  Just drop in on one of their conversations and above the dulcet  
of the grandfathers  roomed  with  intonationsof "Get the Funk Outta  
Knute Rockne.)  Ma  Face''  (music  relaxes  the  
mind),  one  can  easily  hear  the  
By the time the first football game rools around, however, it's hard to tell the immigrants from  Domers discussing the ideal pelvic area and mamary equipment ne­cessary to, presumably, carry and  
the established Domers,  and the  nourish his future Domer.  
MMX,IJIIIIfT AAH. rrs Me /I.E60­GUTTA Be IN8 TO 1J0 Offf 7Jiil(li  
/FIT'stOSTr  



--------------~~----------------------------------­
Proctor urges self-initiative for black students 
by Patrick C61e Senior Staff Reporter 
"So your role in the 1980's? It's obvious ... We must shore up our natural resources .. and our single revolutionary equipment in the 1980's will be you--the black intel­lectual." 
Urging black students to have self-initiative in preparing for the future, Barbara Proctor, president of Proctor and Gardener Advertis­ing Company in Chicaga, spoke to a group of SO people in the Library Auditorium last night. 
In spelling out the keys to success, Proctor reflected on her own experiences during her first year at Talladega (Alabama) Col­lege. "Rather later in life, that 
SLC examines space allo_cation 
by Joe Gill Staff Reporter 
The Student Life Council (SLC) recommended yesterday that the officers of the University "work toward. the alleviation of disparity of social space in the residence Halls." 
The Council acted on a report submitted by senior Charles Moran 
which  indicated  the  amount  of  
social  space  per  dormitory,  and  
noted  that  Holy  Cross  has  112  

square feet per person while Howard has only 1.5 square feet per person. 
The SLC also approved Moran's recommendation that the "Red Bam" located on the. northeast comer of D-1 parking lot be either renovated or replaced to provide a large facility suitable as a dance hall, party house and summer storage facility. The Council recommended that ''a committee be appointed to recommend speci­fic action toward achieving these objectives.'' 
Dr. James Brogle, a clinical psychologist from the Psychologi­cal Services Center at the Student Infirmary, told the SLC that "as a priority, every dormitory should have a place to recreate and entertain people of the opposite sex. Notre Dame is not conducive to heterosexual meetings, and-it should be number one in this area instead of football, grade-point averages and medical school acceptances," he said. 
The SLC also discussed the relocation of incoming students into dormitories like Holy Cross, where new rooms could easily fill the excessive social space. A committee was then established to look into both the renovation of the Red Bam and the social space problem. 

DIAMOND HEART 14 K. $77.50 
Valentine Gift 
For Lovers Only!! Give your valentine-a·Heart ·of Diamonds. 
It will teD the whole story. 
of fine qwillty jewelry. 
V.J!!,!!RB!,!.§.:.£~ 
Dimnonds"7/Jatchu")twtl17J 
Soutit Bencl, Indiana 
234-2919 

yearprovided me wttn wnat was to be the foundation of my life. I and I alone truly set my limits and my horizons." 
And the audience found her horizons remarkable. Proctor started in the business world by turning a $12,000 business into a $5 million enterprise. In 1974 and 1975, she was chosen as Advertis­ing Woman of the Year by the _A_merican Advertising Federation District. She was a recipient of the Frederick Douglass Truth and Ex­
chose her as the advertising leader in 1975. In 1976; Proctor was the first female President of the Cos-I mopolitan Chamber of Commerce. 
Proctor, a board member of PUSH (People United to Save Humanity) and of the Better Busi­ness Bureau, was the subject of television program on WTIW in Chicago concerning her achieve­ments. Finally she was chosen as one of the 100 Most Successful Bla,c_k_ Wom~:;n_in Arn~ric:a by B~~­
lness week. She also holds an 
Honorary Doctorate of Human 
Letters from Southern Methodist 
University, and she was the reci­
pient of the Outstanding liusiness 
Leadership Medallion from the 
NAACP. 
Proctor suggesred three points oT advice to the audience of mostly black students. "First, begin with your bodies," She urged. "Put your brain, your hearts and your __hand~ ~i11g_Ie_ col!rS_!:_. _ Next. 
cellence in Communication Award 1 from Northern Illinois University. Also in 1975, Proctor was includ­ed in 1,000 of the Most Successful 
Valentine's Day Blacks in America by Ebony maga­zine. Amalgama~_<! Publisers, Inc._ 
Classified Ads 
recognize the issue 'Things' are not getting better in our country. •' 
"Last, recognize the potential," she continued. "The middle class black intellectual has the clearest view. We have actually touched both sides. Now we must deter­
mine if all  we  know  can  help  us  
better reach the world.  That  is  
your role in 1980."  

Proctor stressed that students must build a strong academic [QJntlnued on page 6]_ 
T-ell your Valentine and the world how you real/)' fee/! 
Ads will betaken in the Observer office Everyday 
until5,_ -­
Valentine Special: Up to 10words for $1. 00! 

706 

SOMEONE IOU 
STEREOLPS ONLY••• 
1.99 
PICKWICK/CAMDEN 
8·TRACK TAPES ONLY••• 
Plus Many More of Your Favorite Artists and Titles to Choos~From!_ 
prices__g!Jo<l_t}lrough 2/11/77 
. -----­
Notre Dame Bookstore 

~--------------------------------------------------------­
.. 
the observer Wednesday, February 9, 1977
6 

Procter stresses need for sound education 

[Continued from pa,ae 5] background. One of the secrets of academia, according to Proctor, is the flunk and "force" rate of black students in high~r education. She said many black students are either "flunking out or quota systems are forcing" blacks through many uni­versities. 
"Many of you are out the door with a paper in your hand and nothing of concrete use in vour 
Mortgage official held at gunpoint 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -A mort­gage company director was taken hostage yesterday by a gunman who ties a shotgun to his head and threatened to kill him and blow up an apartment building unless re­leased from a 5130,000 loan and granted immunity from prosecu­tion. 
Police said the gunman, identi­fied as Anthony G. Kiritsis, 45, of Indianapolis, had wired the muzzle of a sawed-off shotgun to the neck of Richard 0. Hall, 42, as he marched him four blocks through downtown Indianapolis. 
The mortgage company released Kiritsis from the loan, which was due the end of this month, but he refused to release Hall as negotia­tions bogged down on the immuni­ty demand. 
"I'm not going to do any time .. . I'm not going to jail," Kiritsis shouted through the door of the third-floor apartment where he holed up on the far west side of Indianapolis. He said the apart­ment was rigged with nitroglycer­ine. Police said Kiritsis had demolition training in the Army. 
"Don't come through the door. I don't want to hurt anybody," Kiritsis said. 
Indiana State Police Col. Alfred Walker quoted Kiritsis as saying during a 30-minute conference call with authorities, "I'm ready to die." 
"He says he wants every penny he's got coming to him. He wants the company to admit they were wrong to him, and he wants to walk out a free man," Walker said. 
head," Proctor stated. "That is 
sad. Because it means that the 
same system which denied you an 
education years ago is denying 
you an education today." 
Proctor encouraged students to · learn all they can from others. The 
temptation to resist knowledge, she 
said, because it does not match 
your version of reality is "an easy 
way out." 
"You are the difference between 
now and 1980," Proctor said. 
"You and only you. Black history 
will not make the difference. 
White future will not · only your 
own clear and dispassionate con­
duct as we move toward the end of 
the century." 
Proctor believed black society in is in an ethnic crises. "Fifty-two percent of our babies were born out of wedlock in our nation's capital last year," she revealed. "More than a half-million baby girls under 15 became mothers. Our men are killing each other nine times more often than whites are killing theirs .. Forty-two percent of black youths 17 years old are functional illiter· ates." 
Proctor stated "little in common has been left us." And she told of the need for unified commitment for survival. In clarifying unified commitment, she said that it did not mean uniform ·conduct'' which she further label~ a "super trap." 

--­FORUMI  
A Francois Truffaut Film~.(I) \HJ,)IIIII Ends Thurs "Small Change" 7:)5. 9:20 Starts Friday Friday BONNIE 7:30-9:30 Sat. -Sun AND ffi 1:45-3:35. CLYDE 5:25 • 7:30 'J1IEY A R1"1' -9:40 ftl11 I. . :;· :...:.....~ ·············· . ''FUN WITH DICK&JANE" STARRING GEORGE SEGAL ­JANE FONDA -ED MCMAHON  
MIDNITE SHOW FRI-SAT Only fft_;;~ .· .A vicious, EWOTT GOULD ,_,.,c.JP":' bnllant mmedy [!]~coLoR ~~DJJt.S  

However, Proctor contended that orovement because they represent blacks reject natural basic~ iJ!1· IContinued on page 3J ­
The Social Commission presents 
BRUCE
--·-----..._ ---­
a limited supply of tickets are 
available, however if the demand 
i~~ses more buses will be added. 
Wednesday Feb. 23 
Bus trip to Chicago Auditorium 
Tix go on sale tomorrow at S.U. Ticket Office 
PRICE $17.50 
(includes round trip & great seat) 

Michigan considers 19-year old drinking bill 
[Continued from page 2] said. "But after seemg tne abuse acted in haste and did not carefully think 19 is the best age for the legal states, "Alcoholic liquor shall not 
DeSana's bill to amend the law to of liquor in high schools, he 
19. "Senator DeSana's bill probab-thought the bill was necessary." ly has greater support because he DeGrow attributed the original is of the majority party in the lowering of the legal age in senate," DeGrow commented, Michigan in 1972 to the sentiments "but I think I have strong support , of the aftermath of the Vietnam from many people, especially the war. "When 18 and 19 year-olds Michigan Teacher's Association." were drafted and sent to Vietnam, 
"My oldest son, who is now 27 many people argued that if an 18 and a teacher in Michigan, told me year-old could be sent to war and that he thought there was an also allowed to vote, he should be urgent need for the 21 drinking age, allowed to drink.'' in our state. When the vote first "The drinking bill was rushed came up to lower the drinking age ' through the legislature," DeGrow t_o 18, he supported it," DeGrow continued. The Michigan senate 
CAMPUS WEST 
MINISTRY offices ground floor of Badin now student operated from 8 p.m. to midnight Sunday through Thursday 
Available for: 
Small group meetings social space study conversation 
The KnjgbtsMen's Hairstyling 
Treat yourself the month of February with a styled haircut and blowstyle combination, and receive a free condition! It will give you back that natural sheen that the winter months have deprived you of. This is a $13.00 value for $8.50. 
euttn'~ 'a~tlt: 
54533 TERRACE LANE Tues.. Wed., Sat. 8:30 -5:30, 
Thurs. & Fri. 8:30 
LOST AND FOUND 
Found: set of GM car keys in front of Flanner. Call Mike 1598. 
LDst: one pair of glasses at SMC after Second City on Sat. night. Call 288-7354. 
LDst: Timex gold watch with blue fact and gold band; it is a calendar watch with day of month only, if found call Brian 283-3793. 
Do you have my green coat? I have yours. LDst at an off campus party last Saturday night. Call 5128 (at SMC). 
LDst: pair of navy blue knit goves with rust buckskin on the backside. LDst near Holy Cross Hall and about 2 weeks ago. If found or know whereabouts, call Cindy 259-2169. 
LDst: a circular yellow onyx earring between Sorin and the. circle or on bus to Holy Cross, SMC. Great sentimental value. Reward 4-4374. 
LDst: class ring blue stone and white gold. lncribed: Frank Walters, reward. Call 1177. 
WANTED 
Need ride to Detroit Friday, Feb. 11. Call Joan 6841. 
Need ride to Cleveland any weekend Call Fran 6865. 
Wanted: riders to Des Moines, Iowa for weekend. Call Dave, 288-9768. 
Need ride to Illinois State University (Bloomington-Normal areal this Fri. call Lisa 4-4563. 

· 8:30 PHONE 277-1691'' 
Wanted: used calculator, full function. Call Tim, 3578. 
Need housemate for OC. $60 month plus utilities. 289-6929. 
Need ride to Chicago Feb. 11 (Friday! Call Patty 6739. 
Need two GA tix to So. Carolina game. Call after 6pm 288-0088. 
Need a ride to Ft. Lauderdale for spring br.eak will share driving and expenses. Call Pat 1514. 
Wanted: rides to Ft. Lauderdale for break. Call Brian 1589 or 1516. 
Need 2 tickets for North Dakota hockey game Saturday. Need 2 b-ball tickets for So. Carolina. Call Bill 1867. 
Wanted: senior girl to share furnished apartment in Chicago after graduation. Call Deb. (312) 357-3447. 
Need 2 So. Carolina tix. Please call Mary 1280. 
Need 2 San Francisco tix. $$$ Call Jim 234-8083 after 5.
_____..,.....__________ NOTICES-
Wanna run your own bar? Juniors, applications are now available fQr positions of Senior Bar manager at the Office of Student Affairs (315 Admins. Bldg.) or the Senior Bar. Deadline: Feb. 16. Hurry!!!! 
Greyhound Bus to Chicago leaves Main Circle every Friday at approx. 
5:45. Call Tom at 8338 for seat reservations. 
Typing -35 cents a page. Call Dan: 
272-5549. 
consider the whole issue, he re­marked. -­The new bill, like previous bills, 
S.B. 31 and 32, must first be approved by the Commerce Com­mittee and then receive a majority-­approximately 20 votes--in the senate. Public hearings will be conducted and DeGrow expects many teachers and principals to testify in favor of the bill. 
Reaction to the 21 drinking age varied among Notre Dame stu­dents. Mike Clancy, sophomore 
sident, commented "I drinking age. If and 18 or 19 year-old can go to war and can vote, he should be able to buy alcohol." 


Another student said the bill to raise the drinking age to 21 would not really eliminate the drinking problem entirely. "If you take , away the privilege to drink for 18 year-olds, after the Jaw has already been in effect for several years, many kids will resent it and it would probably increase the use of false ID's." 
The bill, introduced last week, be sold to a person unless the person has attained 21 years of age." 
The bill concerning the penal code states, "a person who know­ingly gives or furnishes any alco­holic beverage to a person under 21 years of age except upon authority of and pursuant to a prescription of a duly licensed physician is guilty of a misdemeanor, and if the furnishing involved consideration, the person shall be imprisoned for not more than 1 year, or fined not more than $1000, or both." 
See the Navy Engineering progra111s officer _at the placement office. Scheduled interviews 
·--­

-Feb. 14, 15. 16. Navy Engineering Programs 
More than just a job 
An adventure. 
Classified Ads 
Tickets for the Feb. 23 Bruce Springsteen & The E. Street Band concert at the Auditorium Theater in Chicago are now on sale at the River City Ticket outlets: Just for the Record (I 00 Center) and Boogie Records (College Square). 
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND $20 -150 
1 day wait. 1 percent interest. Due 
in 30 days. LaFortune Basement. 
M-tF 11:15-12:15. 
Accurate, fast Typing. Mrs. Donoho 232-0746. Hours: Sam-8pm. 
Used Books. Book Barn, 1 mile north of Notre Dame. 272-5520. 
Papers professionally typed. Tele­phone evenings, 272-8308. 
The Neon Wilde Band: now available for parties, concerts, for­mals, etc. Call 7996 9-5 or 277-3448 after 5. 
Will teach you flute in your spare time. Call Beth, 8112. 
FOR RENT 

Walk to school-5 bedroom house in good condtion. Rent summer by roomorentirehouse in fall. 1014'N. Eddy -reasonable. Call 233-2613 after 5 pm. 
5 bedrooms, 1 and one half baths, furnished house, walk to campus, renting for summer and or fall -Call 259-7488 alters pm. 
Completely furnished houses rang­ing from two to seven bedrooms available for summer or next Sep­tember. Call Mrs. Humberger, 
• 234-9364. 
Two bedroom house to rent. Summer and or school year. f012 Eddy Street. $120 mo. plus utilities. 
Call Oddies Harris at 232-8563. 
% ROOM FURNISHED HOUSE WITHING WALKING DISTANCE OF CAMPUS. RENT AND UTiLI· TIES. ONE HALF BLOCK FROM CAMPEAU ST. CALL 1/4'1111!4+ -511'43!8. 
FOR SALE 

SAVE A DIME. EAT A Sua:· THIS COUPON CAN BE REDEEMED FOR A 1/1 CENT DISCOUNT ON A DELICIOUS SUBMARINE SAND­WICH AT YOUR HALL'S FOOD SALES. TONIGHT, FEB. 9. 
Student Business Opportunity. Own your own disco retail record shop ...sold complete. $6,000.00 or best offer. Call 291-1512 or (312) 528-4566 or (518) 465-8256. 
4 Fur coats -mouton lamb, beaver, mink, muscrat. Call 291-2258. mornings. 
PERSONALS 

Dear jamie: Happy 21st birthday from your considerate roommates. Terri sends 
her love too. B, P, and T. 
CHECK OUT THE VILLAGE INN'S BUCKET BRIGADE. (HICKORY 
IWAD ONLYlMembership entitles you to: I bucket of beer (2 pitchers) 3 $1.00 off coupons for 16" pizza, I personalized metal bucket to hang permanently from our ceiling with your name and date of membership. All for only $5.50. 
Swimmers: If you live off campus and want to form a team for the Feb. 18 lnterhall meet, contact Mike Villani at 287-4898. 
Peter "3 E" Sweeney: Do you really think anyone is going to send you a valentine??? 
Dear Prepy, You are my bestest buddy. love and kisses Val 
CAMPUS MINISTRY WEST OFF­ICES ON GROUND FLOOR OF BADIN NOW STUDENT OPER­ATED FROM 7 :30 PM TO MID­NIGHT SUN. THRU FRI. AVAIL­ABLE FOR: SMALL GROUP MEETINGS, SOCIAL SPACE, STUDY, CONVERSATION. 
seniors!!! Relive those California memories by wearing your Mickey Mouse ears at tonight's game. 
Does anybody really know what time it is??? 
Barrington Bunny-You thought it quite funny Your position on the potty --not so did Scotty 
A.S. It's T o m M o f f i t t. 
a.g.r.??!!! Who? 
Dean Janke's mother wears army boots . 


.."· ;., ' ~. -, ..... ~·.-:.. ~ -~ ........ ~ ... -.·~-..-"7 ..... ~ ............................ ~ ................... . 
r 


Wednesday, February 9, 1977
the observer
8 

Irish cagers face tough Crusaders 

by Bob Keen Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame basketball team will place their five-game winning streak on the line tonight when they battle a highly touted, current­ly unranked team from Holy Cross College. 
"I want to make sure that the students know what we are up against," stated Irish Coach Dig­ger Phelps. "Holy Cross is 18-2 -and we need the students juiced up." 
One of the Crusaders' more important victories came-against seventeenth-ranked Providence 67­65 in the Colonial Classic. Two . weeks later the Friars handed then number-one ranked Michigan their first loss of the season. 
An earlier Holy Cross loss occur­ed in the finals of the Gator Bowl Classic when they were defeated by Florida. However, Florida, play­ing in the tough SEC, proved with their 80 to 76 upset of Tennessee Monday that they can stay with the­best of them. 
The Crusaders are coached by George Blaney and led byfreshman guard Ronnie Perry. The 6-2 backcourt ace, whose father is Holy Cross Athletic Director, is currently the leading freshman scorer in the country with a 22.6 average. 
Perry is considered to be one of the finest all-around athletics in Massachusetts state history. Dur­ing his high school career at Catholic Memorial he accumulated a state-record 2,481 points, was a two-time All-State selection in bas­ketball and baseball, and in his senior year was voted to Parade's All-American team. "Perry is one of the top freshman guards in the country," stated Phelps. 
The Irish hope to counter, Perry 
< 

*Observer 
Sports 
Fred Herbst 

A Crucial Week 
:::::;;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;;::::=:::w:::::;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 
The Irish Eye 

For Digger Phelps and his Notre Dame basketball team this shapes up t9 be a crucial week. Sporting a 13-5 record the Irish are fighting to achieve their pre-season goal -a NCAA bid. A simple enough goal, but 
•still very difficult to obtain. "Maybe 18 wins would be enough to get us a bid," Phelps remarked, "but we really need 20 to be safe." 
Twenty wins means that Notre Dame must win seven of their last nine 
games. A quick look at the schedule reveals an upcoming battle with 
undefeated, number-on ranked San Francisco on March 1 and little else ­
right? Wrong. 

Tonight the Irish must face Holy Cross. Holy Cross isn't a name that 
one generally associates with top-flight basketball, but the Crusaders ent­
er the game with an 18-2 slate. Their only loses have come at the hands of 
Florida and a two-point defeat to Georgetown. They currently boast a 
six-game winning streak. 

It's true that Holy Cross is an eastern school and plays eastern schools, 
but they shouldn't be overlooked. Teams in the east are tough. Just ask 
Michigan, who lost to Providence, or Louisville, who lost to Syracuse at 
home, about the strength of east coast schools. Better yet, ask Notre 
Dame, who lost to Princeton and Villanova. 
"We certainly can't take Holy Cross lightly," Phelps concedes. 
"They're well-coached, they know their strengths and they know their 
weaknesses. They're an exceptionally smart team and that's what makes 
them so tough." 

"I want to make sure that the students know what we're up against," 
Phelps continued. "Holy Cross is 18-2 and we need the students juiced 
up." 

H the Crusaders won't be tough enough for the Irish, Saturday Frank 
McGuire's South Carolin~y~_mecocks visit the ACC. After getting off to a 
slow start (losing_ to Alab~J)la twi~e_.__Kentucky!_ Cincinnati, lv.!ichigan and 
Marquette), the Gamecocks have won five of their last six games to raise their record 10 and 10. 
So after boring romps over Pittsburgh, Fordham, Dayton, Davidson, 
and Xavier, Irish fans are in for the treat of seeing two meaningful games 
against good teams -two games that the Irish must win to move closer to 
securing an NCAA bid. 

Wins over Holy Cross and South Carolina certainly won't insure an 
NCAA bid for Notre Dame, but with balance throughout the nation, loses 
would certainly make securing a bid difficult -if not impossible. 
with their own brilliant freshman, Rich Branning. Branning has been Notre Dame's floor general since Ray Martin broke his ankle early in the season. While leading the team in assists and averaging almost 10 points per game, his most positive team contribution may come from the calm consis­tency which has characterized his play. The Perry-Branning match­up may be the cruCial determinant in tonight's game. . 
Junior center chris Potter's tip­in at the buzzer game Holy Cross its victory over Providence. "Potter is as good as any forward we'll see all year," emphasized Phelps. The two-time All-New· England selection is scoring 17.6 points a game this year and leads the team in rebounding with a 9.2 mark. Although he normally plays forward, he was moved to the center position after a freak achilles tendon ended sophomore John O'Connor's season. 
The forward positions are filled by Mike Vicens, a 6-5 junior and senior co-captain Bill Doran. Vicens, a teammate of Perry in high school and a member of the 1976. Puerto Rican Olympic team, led Holy Cross in scoring last season and is presently averaging over 16 points per contest. Doran, who can also play guard, was selected as the team's MVP last year. He, like Perry, also plays baseball and has become only the fifth atlete in Holy Cross history to captain more than one sport. 
Joining Perry in the backcourt is 
the Crusader's other, co-captain, 
senior Kevin McAuley. McAuleyis 
the team's floor general and this 
allows erry to concentrate more on 
the scoring aspect of his game. 
Holy Cross displays good depth 
in Charlie Browne and Pete Beckenbach. Browne, a 6~10 freshman from New York, where he made first team All-New York City, has been seeing more action at center since O'Conner's injury. Beckenbach, a second year guard, is noted for his explosiveness. He attendedRoselle Park High School in New Jersey where he broke NBA star Rick Barry's all-time scoring record. 

Although the Crusaders are not a big, physical team, they are ex­tremely quick and well disciplined. Almost certainly Holy Cross will utilize their full court zone press which has been so successful for them during the season. Their press has consistently forced tum­overs and bad shots by the opposi­tion while also helping them to control the tempo of the game. "We won't take tltem lightly, the): are too good for that," stated Phelps. 
During the last five-game stretch the Irish seem to have found the right combination of players and strategies. Phelps stated, "We are playing as well now as we have in the past." One reason for the Irish'sressurgence has been the frontcourt play of Bruce Flowers and Dave Batton. Flowers and Batton are getting the ball more often and closer to the basket where they are able to use their size and strength more effectively. As a result Flowers has led the team in scoring two out of the last three games and has raised his field goal shooting percentage to over 60 percent, which is tops for the Irish. 
Tonight's game marks the tenth 
meeting between the Irish and the 
Crusaders. The last meeting 

There's no place like home 
by Frank LaGrotta Sports Writer 
Home court advantage. Basket­ball players look forward to it, their coaches appreciate it, the fans love it. And why not? The home team is familiar with the court and sur­roundings, the hassles of traveling are eliminated, and, most impor­tant, the home team has the vocal support of a partisan crowd. 
The student body of Notre Dame is famous, world-wide, for their school spirit and their willingness to express it as loudly as possible at an athletic event. Quick to confirm this fact is the Irish Basketball coach Digger Phelps. 

''The students at Notre Dame are second to none," a smiling Phelps points out. "They know that they are an important part of the game, that they add to the flow of the game and they react accord­ingly. Coming through the tunnel . at the A.C.C. and hearing the noise gets the team and the coaches fired up. I really wish that we could take the whole student section on the road with us." 
When comparing Notre Dame fans with fans the team encounters on the road, Phelps is liberal with his praise for Irish supporters. 
"I believe that we have a unique 
situation at Notre Dame because of 
the sophisticated way that the faris 
display their support," explains 
the Irish mentor. "When we go on 
the road we face a lot of abuse 
because we are Notre Dame; 
because we are something special. 
We expect this sort of thing and we 
can accept it. However, at times 
this abuse becomes focused on 
religious and ethnic backgrounds of 
our players and coaches, and I find 
that uncalled for. Since I've been 
at Notre Dame, I've never seen our 
student body react in that 
manner.'' 
Aside from enjoying the friendly 
atmosphere of home, Phelps is 
adament in his belief that fan 
support can affect a team's perfor­
mance. 
"The UCLA game played at the 
ACC this season is a good example 
of what the support of the crowd 
can do for a team," Phelps reveals. 

ng to improve percent 
shooting as the Irish face Holy Cross in the ACC tonight. between the two-schools was at recognition which-theybefievethat Notre Dame two years ago as the they deserve. Conversely, the Irish Irish prevailed 96-91. The victory realize that a loss to Holy Cross was not an easy one as Dave . would greatly hamper their quest Kuznicz came off the bench to for a NCAA bid. "They are well score a career high 20 points for coached, they know their stregnths Notre Dame. and they know their weaknesses," 
Holy Cross has been looking stated Phelps. "They are an forward to this game all season exceptionally smart team and knowing that an upset victory over that's what makes them danger-the Irish will get them the ous." 
"At one point in the game we were students. down by eleven but we fought back ''Our next two games are 'must' to take a five-point lead. Even games for us if we expect to get an 
though we lost the game, the NCAA ~layoff bid, _a~d the s~: students were with us all the way. dents will be t~e dect~lD~ fact~r, The pre-game build-up was unbe-_~helps emphastzes. ~t s ~ sttua­Iievable· the best I've ever seen at tion where, when we re m that Notre D~me. Before we came out tunnel waiting to come into the at the beginning of the game, the 'fl~r, we need a!l 5000 stud~nts on fans were at an emotional peak thetr feet, cheenng for 40 mmutes. second to none." We're healthy, we're playing very 
"Another example of student well and we need the juice of support affecting the outcome of . playing at home to have the the game was last season's West emotional peak we'll need to defeat Virginia game played at the ACC," two outstanding basketball he continued. "We played a bad teams." first half and we were down abopt Notre Dame's snccess on the five points. Yet when we came out athletic field is legendary. Realiz-· to start the second half, the ing that they play a crucial part in students were on their feet just like that success should be_very gratify­we were playing UCLA, and we ing to Notre Dame students. went out and scored the first 13 "Notre Dame students are #1," points of the half." Phelps concluded. "They can · 
-Facing two critical home contests make it happen." . . 
with Holy Cross and South Caro-. Thanks to_ the Irish fans, th~re ts 
Iina Phelps cites the difference in rio place like home for Dtgger 
' as the Notre Dame Phelps and his team. 
To Digger Phelps, Notre Dame fans are second to none. 






