Trustees delay action on Bender SLC proposal 

by Thomas O'Neil The Editor Emeritus 

The 
Student Body President Dave Bender's proposal to restructure the Student Life Council will need further study and discussion before being acted upon by the Board of Turstees, according to Thomas Carney, chairman of the Sutdent Affairs Committee of the Board.


Observer 
The proposal, submitted by Ben­der to the committee yesterday,an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's 
will be presented to the futJ Board this weekend, Carney said, but no Vol. XI, No. 112 
Friday, April15, 1977 
decision will be made in the immediate future. "We'll have to set up meetings
To raise $130 million with rectors and SLC members before we take any drastic action,'' Carney said. ''The SLC will go on as usual in the meantime," he added.
University announces campaign 
by Marit Hogan Editor-in-Chief 

The Campaign for Notre Dame, a five-year development program instituted to increase the University's endowment, was revealed today at the Campaign Inaugural Assembly. 
Approximately 600 trustees, faculty, students, alumni, parents and volunteer workers attended the Campaign Inaugural Program today as Dr. John H. Knowles, president of the Rockefeller Foundation, gave the keynote address at the Inaugural Assembly publicly announcing the kick-off of the campaign. 
The goal of the campaign, $130 million, is to "undergird our academic future with dramatically increased permanent endowment," said Rev. Theodore Hesburgh. 
At present, Notre Dame's $108 million endow­ment is the largest of any Catholic university but smaller than that of many leading independent universities. Hesburgh cited the reason for increas­ing the endowment saying, "If you take the ten universities in this country with the largest endowment, you wiii have the ten best universities in this country." 
Almost 75 percent of the campaign's goal, $92 million, wiii be set aside for Notre Dame's endowment. According to John T. Ryan, University trustee and chairman of the campaign, $57.8 million or 45 percent of the goal has already been committed to the program in advance gifts. 
The Campaign for Notre Dame grew out of the recommendations of the Committee on University priorities (COUP) which reported in December, 1973. The committee's recommendations were then formed into development goals after involved consultation with University trustees, members of its advisory councils and alumni leaders. 
The major portion of the endowment will cover named professorships, the Memorial Library collect­ion, student aid, campus ministry, and a variety of research, educational and service programs, espec­ially in the area ofthe Catholic Church. 
In addition to the endowment, $29.3 million is slated for physical facilities including a classroom­faculty office building, a chemical research structure ,and an undergraduate residence hall. Also extensive renovation is scheduled for the Administration Building and Washington Hall. 
The campaign also seeks $8.7 million in unre­stricted funds to underwrite current operations. 
As the ninth largest campaign now in progress in American universities, the Campaign for Notre Dame will more than double the $52 million goal set in its last fund-raising drive which concluded in 1972. Between 1960 and 1972, Notre Dame raised more than $108 million, much of which went to construct the library and the Athletic and convoca­tions Center (ACC). That total included $12 million The Bender proposal called forin matching funds from the Ford Foundation scrapping the SLC in favor of athrough its "Special Program in Education," Campus Life Council (CLC) todesigned to creat regional centers of academic include hall rectors and students asexcellence. 
its only permanent members. The SLC is a tripartite body composed of students, faculty and adminis­trators, established by the Board of 
The 
Trustees in 1969. Any proposal to change the SLC must be approved by the Board. 
Former SBP Mike Gassman,

Campaign 
opposed to the Bender proposal, warned of the proposal's short­comings.
fOr 
"You're going to lose input from many areas," he said, "if the new CLC.replaces the SLC. He said-the CLC would--exclude off-campus


Notre 
student input, academic considera­tions and "Input from such places as Campus Ministry and Psycho­
logical Services." "Student Life is not just hall 
Dame 
life,'' he added. 
Bender defended his proposal saying hall life is the focus of most student problems. He added his belief that the SLC has not proved to be effective in the past. 
Bender also said he was against a suggested compromise of having the CLC be a subcommittee of the SLC because its influence would be less direct. 
General reaction to the proposal at the meeting was mixed. Trustees responded, neutrally, while out going student leaders reacted neg­atively. The newly-elected student government officials present dis­played enthusiasm for their pro­posal. 
Since no action will be taken on the proposal by the Board of Trustees this weekend, any deci­sion will be postponed to a future meeting. The next full meeting of the board will be in November. 
Another subject discussed by the committee was the continued ren­ovation of LaFortune Student Cen­ter. Gassman presented the results of a student government question­naire, dealing with student opinion on the present facility and what students hope future renovation 
~would include. "Only five percent of students believe LaFortune is adequate as it is," Gassman said. "Seventy-four percent of the student body use the center on a monthly basis at best." Other results of the question­naire showed students would like LaFortune to include bank and stamp machines, a sit-down food service, bowling lanes, a game room and a store to purchase amaH items. 

Can you believe iH Spring has finally arrived in South Bend. [Photo by Leo Hansen] 
Carter dumps $50 tax rebate plan 
WASIDNGTON [AP) -Ameri­cans won't be getting those $50 tax rebates from Uncle Sam after all because President Carter has de­cided the economy is 'doing well enough wjthout them, the White House said yesterday. 
Taxpayers who spent their re­bates in advance -and economists say there may be many of them ­apparently will be out of luck. But Wall Street, worried that the rebates would be inflationary, re­acted with enthusiasm an<l stock prices rose ten points in early trading. · . 
Carter is to announce his anti-in­flation program at a news con­ference today. 
The decision to scrap the rebate was made Wednesday night and obviously caught some advisers by surpurse. Both Treasury Secretary 
W. Michael Blumenthal and Labor Secretary Ray Marshall made speeches in recent days arguing for the rebate. 
Also scrapped was a proposed two percent increase in the invest­ment tax credit for business. 
The rebate would have put about $10 billion in the pockets of taxpayers, and the credit would have given business about $2 billion. 
An average family of four with income below $20,000 could have expected $200 in rebates. 
"That's not enough for a down payment on a new car," one government economist said, ''but it will buy a television set, a washing machine or a new suit of clothes." 
Both the rebate and the invest­ment tax credit were major ele­ments in the $31 billion, two-year economic stimulus program that Carter proposed to Congress soon after taking office in January. 
The rebate plan was in-trouble in the Senate, largely because of fears it would fuel inflation and do little to help the economy. But admini­stration spokesmen insisted the decision to scrap the rebates was made for economic reasons, not political considerations. 
-But Blumenthal and Budget Di­rector Bert Lance led the move to convince Carter to withdraw the rebate plan, one source said. 
''They told him the economy was looking strong enough without it. 
Most economic indicators except for the stock market are looking stronger.'' 
Whatever the reason, the reac­tion in the Senate was swift and favorable. Carter called key sena­tors Wednesday night to inform them after the decision was made. 
Senate Majority Leader Robert Byrd said it's a "wise decision" because "the justifications that seemed apparent for the rebate last December have less validity at t~is 
time." 
Senator Abraham Ribicoff 

(D-Conn.), a member of the Senate 
Finance Committee said, "I com­
ment the President for being 
realistic and willing to recognize 
changing economic conditions. His 
decision showed great leadership." 
Sen. Carl Curtis (R-Neb.) said he 

is "delighted" because the rebate 
plan ''was a gimmick for sendout 
out about $10 billion in money we 
didn't have. I believe the President 
became aware that his plan would 
be beaten in the Senate.'' 
Less enthusiasm was expressed by House Speaker Thomas P. O'Neill, who said, "We will still have the rebate over in the Senate and ifthings change we will be able to get it. Unemployment continues -to be a problem and the Congress remains committed to reducing it.'' 
The House already had approved the rebate. 
Wall Street's enthusiasm was expressed by Charles Jensen of Merkin and Co., an investment firm, who said, "Carter's canceling the $50 tax rebate plan was well-received. . .Investors consid­ered it inflationary." 
One government economist, who did not want to be quoted by name, said that advance spending of rebates by consumers may have been largely responsible for the rebound in economic activity in March, following the harsh winter weather in January and February. 
He said the figures on consumer borrowing and spending in recent weeks show that consumers are willing to go into debt to buy things. He said it is hard to predict how they will react if they do not now get the rebates they had hoped to use to pay these bills. 


2 the observer Friday, April15, 1977 
----------------~~~~~~ 

On Campus Today _ __....._. 
friday, april 15 
12 pm 
3:30pm 
4:30pm 
5:15pm 7 pm 
7,9 & 11 pm 

7, 9 & 11 pm film, "cat ballou" sponsored by smc neighborhood 
7:30pm 7:30pm 
8 pm 8 pm all day 
saturday, april 16 

prayer rally, michiana billy graham crusade, tom landry, coach of the dallas cowboys is principle speaker, ace. 
9am 

noon-6 pm workshop, life planning values clarification work­shop, rm. 400, ad. building 
7, 9 & 11 pm fiim, "cat ballou" sponsored by smc neighborhood study group, smc carroll hall. admission $1. 7, 9:15 
& 11:30 pm film, 'catch 22" sponsored by beta gamma sigma, eng. aud. admission $1. 
exhibition, international student festival washington hall.
7:30pm 

the fantastic freshman formal, sponsored by the nd-smc freshman class, music by masquerade, concourse room, ace. 
9 pm-1 am 
sunday, april17 

12 noon lacrosse, nd b-team vs. chicago, stepan field. 1:30-3:15, 3:30 -5:15, 7-9 pm workshop, "food and justice," room 124 hayes-healy 
1 pm competition, aiaa paper airplane competition, spon­sored by aerospace and mech. eng., stepan center. no admission or entry fee. 
2:30 pm lacrosse, nd a-team vs. michigan state, stepan field. 7, 9:15 
& 11:30 pm film, "catch 22" sponsored by beta gamma sigma, eng. aud. admission $1. 
8 pm foreign film series, "hiroshim.1 mon amour" by alain resnais, sponsored by nc.J-smc theater, smc carroll hall. 
8pm 

recital, harpsicord recital by f<:ulty member arthur lawrence, stapleton lounge. 
::tcThe Observer 
Night Editor: John Calcutt Asst. Night Editors: Debbie 
Dahrling, Frank Kebe 
Editorial layout: Tom O'Neil 
Features layout: Tim O'Reiley 
Sports layout: Tony Pace 
Typists: Gwen Colem<tn, Mary McCormick, Stephanie Urillo, 
Leigh Tunakan E.M.T.: Sue Shellenburger Day Editor: Jack Silhary Copy Reader: Bob Verettoni, A'ln Gales · 
1 he Ob.,erver IS publ~>hed Monday through f'ndav and weekly dunng the summer session. except dunng the exam and vacation periods The Observer is publ1shed by students of , the Univers1ty of Notre Dame and i St Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for Si20 per year ($10 per semester) from The Obser­ver, Box Q, Notre Dame. Indiana 46556 Second class postage paid. Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
The Observer is a member of the 
Asso(iated Press All reproductiOn 
r1ghh arP resprved 


discussion, fellowship opportumttes for 1978-79: national endowment for the humanities and fuJI­bright-hayes research on teaching abroad, spon­sored by center for the study of man, lib. aud. 
lecture, "changing relationships between business and government: the solutions" by dr. murray weidenbaum of washington univ., st. louis, spon­sored by econ. dept., hayes-healy aud. 
lecture, "some applications of jordon triple systems to the theory of semetric domains" by prof. ichiro satake, univ. of cal. at berkley, sponsored by math dept., rm. 226 math building.. 
mass and dinner, bulla shed. 
bible study, "is christ the god-man?" sponsored by campus crusade for christ, flanner penthouse. 
film, "psycho" sponsored by circle k, eng. aud. admission $1. 
study group, smc carroll hall. admission $1 
meeting, society for creative anachronism, rath­skeller, Iafortune. 
slide show and presentation, "Gulf and western's pivotal role in the affairs of the dominican republic," by fr. jow mulligan, s.j., open to all, hayes-healy. 
theater, "play it again sam'' by woody allen, nazz. admission$1. 
basketball, "harlem globetrotters." ace. $5 & $6; under 12, $1 off. 
antique show, fieldhouse ace. 
HAPPY HOUR 3-6 
all 
drinks Price 
sponsored by sociology department ...... __ ' .................... _. __ 
·, ..

'', , •, '.. • .._'•,'4, • .. '\.'t, 'r 1•1'·, , "•0'• ~. '• ....., ·, 
Roemer states poster policy 
by Michael Lewis 
Dean of Students James Roemer has announced that all posters and announcements must be placed on campus and hall bulletin boards. 
This policy will ban placing posters in many areas, such as on dormitory walls and on the walls of other campus buildings. . 
"In the past year I've received ' many complaints about the litter these posters cause. Also, many important announcements are ig­nored because of the proliferation of posters on the walls," Roemer stated. 
Roemer also voiced concern ab­out area businesses that ''use the 
walls of campus buildings to ad­vertise their products.'' 
He went on to say that the policy should not adversely affect student affairs, stating, "The bulletin boards are meant to promote student activities.'' 
Roemer commented that person­al items on dormitory doors will not be affected, and added that the security and maintenance person­nel will enforce the policy. 
China youths to visit ND 
by Dave Kavanaugh 
This weekend a Youth Goodwill Mission of the Republic of China will visit the Notre Dame campus and participate in the International Festival Saturday at 7:30 p.m. in Washington Hall. 
The Mission is composed of 16 college students from throughout the Republic of China. Led by Alexander Yin and Kuo-Yean Cheng, the Mission is one of two groups sponsored by the Chinese Television Service in Taiwan. The purpose of the groups is to promote cultural interflow and mutual un­derstanding by presenting per­formances of Chinese folk songs and dances. 
ERRATUM 
Yesterday's Observer erronously printed the wrong phone number for the Free University in an ad. Any students wishing to teach a Free University Course should call the Student Union at 283-7757. 

ERRATUM 
The Wednesday night fast for April 20 will not be cancelled, contrary to what was printed. in yesterday's Observer. Rather, fast­ers may participate in the rice and tea meal on that day without jeopardizing their ·pledge. How­ever, should they eat the regular 
be violated and the Hunger Coali­.. tion will lose the dining han 
donation. 




GET AJOB! 
Bouncers and Bartenders needed. 
won't get you this job.... cause this 
senior bar 
Pick up application at 315 ad. bldg. Deadline is Wed. , April 20th 5pm. MUST BE 21 BY SEPT. 


NOW SERVING liQUOR 
Happy Hour Monday -Friday 4-7 pm 

Entertainment In The Lounge 
~~Easy 

Listening'' 

Wednesday Thru Saturday Nights 
~TEAK~® 
52554 US 31 ~orth 

Ombudsman initiates advertising campaign 
by Joan Fremeau Sunday the office is open from 1 
Senior Staff Reporter p.m. to S p.m.' and from 9 p.m. to 
12 p.m.. Lavender noted. 
The Ombudsman initiated an Complaints or suggestions will advertising campaign yesterday to be logged. along with the caner's reaffirm its function as a complaint name and telephone number, in a agency, according to Robin Laven­separate book from other cans "so der, Ombudsman director. The they can be handled more easily,'' main thrust of the campaign is said Lavender. The agency will taking place this week with pbsters work on the complaint and let the displayed across campus asking caner know within a week wha+ 
"Have a complaint? Can 7638." action has been taken, she explain­
Many students think of the ed. Ombudsman as an information Copies of complaints will be sent service only, and the goal of this to the administration or to what­
week's campaign is to remind them ever office is involved in the action. of the office's other functions. "The Ombudsman is here to "Students may not be aware that 
handle any problems or · sugges­
we can handle their complaints and tions students might have, from suggestions," Lavender said. banking problems to the need for "We'd like tham to take advantage the 'Quickie' shuttle," Lavender 
of the service." 
stated. 
The "complaint agency" is han­Dave Bender, student body dled by the Special Projects and president, praised the advertisil1g Services division of the Ombuds­campaign as lending "new cred­man, which is headed by Joe ibility" to the Ombudsman service. Turek. The agency's phone number ''Many students are not aware of is the same as the Ombudsman what the Ombudsman is,' he said. number, 7638, as are its office "The complaint line is an effectt e hours: weekdays from 10 a.m. to S way to get problems solved, let off 
p.m. and from 9 p.m. to 12 p.m. On steam, or to suggest ideas." 
----...-----------------~-. 
Friday. April15, 1977 the observer 

Discrimination symposium held 
by Bob Mader rector of admissions, said that the Staff Reporter 
admissions office visits many hight schools that are predominately black, and is constantly searching 
Speakers at the symposium, for scholarship money, because ''Bakke and Reverse Discrim­they are not happy with the number ination," said affirmative action 
of black students enrolled either. programs are threatened nation­
1Chuck Turchick of the National wide by the case, and vehemently 
Lawyers Guild said that the Guild's attacked Notre Dame's minority position is that the University of recruitment and affirmative action 
California colluded with Bakke and programs. 
gave little evidence to support its The symposium was held in case. The Guild urged the Sup­response to the case of Allan Paul 
reme Court, which will rule on the 
Bakke, who is suing the University case this year. to vacate the lower 
of California at Davis, charging court decision in favor of Bakke and 
them with reverse discrimination remand the case to be reheard. 
for admitting less qualified minor­Dr. James B. Stewart, director of 
ities to their medical school, while Black Studies, said that even if denying him admission. The Bakke wins in the Supreme Court, 
symposium was jointly sponsored not that many more whites will be admitted to professional schools. Currently there are only lS,OOO minority students nationwide in professional schools, Stewart said. He termed Bakke "a subterfuge for institutional racism". and warned that without minority law­yers and doctors knowledgeable enough to fight racism effectively. 
the  United  States  will  enter  a  
period  of  retrenchment  in  civil  
rights for minorities.  

Other participants in the sym­posium were Rudy Sandoval. Notre Dame law professor; Charles Crutchfield, law professor; Jean Gorman, director of financial aid at Saint Mary's; and William C. Britt. an attorney for Cargill. Inc. 
by the Black American Law stu-~.,._.,~~~~~.,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~llwi~~~A~~WII~-...~ 
dents Association. La Raza Law Students Association. and the Nat­tiona! Lawyers Guild. 
Julian Samora accused the Un­iversity of institutional racism. citing statistics that show that the number of minority and women staff members has decreased the past two years. Notre Dame, in its Affirmative Action Statement to HEW, said it planned to have 80 women and 70 minorities on the staff this year. There were 64 women and 48 minorities on the staff in 1974. Today the number has dropped to SO women and 41 minority staff members. 
"This gives you a picture of how fast we are moving backwards," Samora said. "One has to wonder about the commitment of this University given its own state­ments, its own goals, and its own practices." 
Joseph W. Scott, professor of sociology, accused the Universy of empty rhetoric and symbolism, while doing little to recruit minority students. In 1970 two per cent of the students were black, and this numberhas not increased. Com­pared with peer institutions. such as Yale, Harvard, or Brown, which have from four to nine per cent blacks, Notre Dame always is on the bottom of the list. 
Daniel Saracino, assistant di-
Security arrests Farley intruder 
by Brigid Rafferty Staff Reporter 

The intruder who was apprehen­ded inside Farley Han Wednesday night and later released by Notre Dame Security was· arrested yes­terday afternoon by Notre Dame police when he was discovered 
SUNDAY MASSES (Main Church) 

5:15p.m. Saturday Rev. Robert Griffin, C.S.C. 
9:30 a.m. Sunday Rev. Oliver Williams, C.S.C. 
10:45 a.m. Sunday-Rev. James .F. Flanigan, C.S.C. 
12:15 p.m. Sunday Rev. William Toohey, C.S.C. 
Vespers will be at 7:15 p.m. in Lady Chapel. Rev. James F. Flanigan, C.S.C. will be celebrant. 
again on campus, according to Security Officer Jack Moulder. 
The unidentified man, described by Dean of Students James Roemer as ''a rather strange individual in his SO's, who was an antique and 
SMC

junk dealer," was caught after wandering around Farley for about ten minutes Wednesday night. After being questioned by Security. 





Coffeehouse
who detected no odor of intoxicants on him. the man was escorted to his vehicle --a trailer. park!;!d behind the ACC and fined with old horseconars and other items, ac­
Is Back!!! cording to Director of Security Arthur Pears. 
TONIGHT! 

"We were fonowing Indiana Law policy on trespassing," explained Pears. ''The man was only a 
11pn1-· Gruff Colen1an 
nuisance; he didn't commit an assault or other crime. He gave no resistance when we escorted him off campus. There had been no need for an arrest." 
Security had instructed the tres­passer to leave and to never return. 
He was spotted Thursday after­noon, however, by Farley Han resident Anne Buzaid, who had encountered him in Farley the 


night before. ''I was standing in front of 
Drop in for a late night snack 
LaFortune at about S:lS p.m.," Buzaid explained, ''when I heard a 
and some good music! 

man saying that he needed help, that it was an emergency. ·He was 
free potatoe chips & dip
... standing .n.ear Washington Han, 
[continued on page 6] ......_____________._.__• _·._·._·._·_·_._.·_.·_.'._.·_:_·._·___• ._._·_·_.~ • <\II 
Why Is This Animal Hiding? Because he knows the 
Emmett Kelly Jr. CIRCUS coming to St. Mary', Thursday, April 21 at 3:00pm & 5:00pm Free for ND-SMC Community General Adm. -$.50 
Case of Hamms $5.89 Case of Strohs $6.87 
(16 oz. returnable bottles) plus deposit 
It's Spring!! $2.60 


12 Pack Rhinelander 
Vodka 



$399 
Qt. 
Gin 
$399Qt. 

liiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii.i,.i·······iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii;l 
t wanv's 
st f 8 
JostPa OPEN FRI. & SAT. TILL MIDNIGHT 

$2.69 
12 Pack Falstaff/Blatz 
(non return bottles) 


\-OCfCs, 
LIQUOR 'VoR\..0 
Soutll B•d Ave. 
277-3611 



$1.59 

6 Pack Schiltz 


an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's 
The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters are the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and letters are encouraged to promote the free expression of varying opinions on campus. 
Box QBusiness Manager Sue Quigley Notre Dame 

Advertising Manager Steve Bonomo Production Manager Karen Chiames Ind. 46556 
Friday, April15, 1977 

DOONESBURY 
EDITORIAL BOARD 
Marti Hogan Editor-in-Chief Martha Fanning Managing Editor Bob Brink Asst. Managing Ed. Kathy Mills Executive Editor Maureen Flynn Editorial Editor Barb Breitenstein Exec. News Editor Tom Byrne Campus Editor jean Powlev St. Mary's Editor Katie Kerwin News Editor Paul Stevenson Sports Editor Pat CoiP Special Projects Ed. David O'Keefe Features Editor 
Copy Editor Barb Langhenry Photo Editor Paul Clevenger 
bv Garry Trudeau 

11/0tJtO Y()(JPttiA5& GIVe A !-fRYti/11/?M tf/&i.C/YI1&7lJ Ot/R 0«/N NOBel PfiAC& PRIZE-IUINN!NG PI?.. 
HBNRY 1<155/NGE~! 
__./ 




Should RA' s be needy? 
The recent announcement from the Office decrease in the quality of RA's, more than a of Student Affairs that in the future seminar may be required for the RA's to be applicants for resident assistant (RA) posi­effective in their halls. Perhaps what will be tions will be appointed only after they have necessary is an academic course in psych­proven a financial need for the job has met ology for RAs to develop basic skills in with negative reactions from some rectors communication, counselling, and supervi­and concerned students. We, too, question sion, course Mary's is Frs. Hesburgh,
much like the St. 
the validity of this new policy. At the very evaluating for its RAs. St. Mary's is least, it raises important questions concern­encouraging sophomores to apply now for ing the nature of the position of resident RA positions so they can receive their Jo".yce pra.Ised 
assistant. training before they serve junior year. 
The last student manual defines; the job of For Freshman Colloquium, Notre Dame RA as this: "The residence haus are under plans to train its teachers during the fall the direction of the rectors. They, together semester next year and have them conduct Dear Editor: with the assistant rectors and the resident colloquii second semester. How much more In a recent edition of The assistants, are ultimately responsible for the important it is for an RA to be well-prepared Observer you reported in some spiritual, 4J,tellect.ual, social, and physical for his or her job! Perhaps candidates could detail on the honor paid Fathers 
Hesburgh and Joyce in recognition
·welfare of the halls. The rector and staffs are be selected by the end of first semester 
of their quarter of a century service 
expected to bring to the residents a junior year and be trained during the second. 
as officers of Notre Dame. My
persuasion based upon experience, know­This would also give rejected candidates 
purpose in writing to you is not to
ledge, and insight. They are present. in the more time to make other plans for finding comment on this recognition, al­hall, therefore, to provide the moral leader­roommates, moving off-campus or applying though obviously everyone would ship by which the hall community can share for other jobs. agree it is deserved, but rather to in the administering of the hall and its The new requirement also raises a comment on the relative emphasis 
given to each of these Individuals in
programs." question about the criteria used to determine 
your cov~rage. ,
In order to ensure appointment of RA's just who "needs" financial. assistance. 
Father Hesburgh is one of the

who would sufficiently fulfill these responsi­Under the new system, would students who two or three greatest men I have bilities, RA applicants, in the past, have already have Joans, grants or scholarships ever known. He deserves all the been carefully screened and interivewed by qualify for further financial assistance? favorable publicity he gets, and hall staffs and rectors and cleared by the Would student workers in the dining halls more. My comments are not meant 
to indicate in any way that you
office of Student Affairs. By this method, the who apply for RA positions be rejected 
shouldn't publici-ze Father
most qualified applicants were chosen to be because they already have "jobs" and would 
Hesburgh's accomplishments.
RA's. thus not need the financial benefits an RA 
However, even considering the 
The new requirement of proving financial position affords? Furthermore, with the prominence of Father Hesburghneed complicates the present selection ever-rising expenses of higher education, and the limitations of your newspa­procedures· to the extent that the most most people at Notre Dame could benefit per space, it doesn't seem to me 
that five lines tacked on to the end
qualified· applicants may not be chosen from some type of financial assistance. Will 
of your story does justice to
simply because they cannot show financial it only be those applicants whom the 
someone who has contributed as
need. As Fr. Terrence Lally, assistant Financial Aid Office deems '.'worthy" to 
much to Notre Dame as has Father
vice-president of Student Affiars, admitted, receive financial assistance who are chosen Joyce. a lot of qualified people who do not need asRA? More than any other • single financial aid are not going to get. a job. Had The questions and problems that the new individual Father Joyce has been the new requirement been in effect this year, policy of RA selection raises are serious reponsible for the fiscal stability of 
Notre Dame, a stability that has
six of the seven top choices of lewis Hall ones. A hall's RAs definitely have a great 
allowed Notre Dame to develop and 
Rector Sally Duffy would have been rejected impact on its residents. An RA can shape a 
grow while many other institutions 
because they did not qualify for financial aid. ,student's outlook on himself and on his life at 
have been restricted In their activi­
Moreover, it is clear from the definition of Notre Dame. The rector's petition against ties because of a lack of planning an RA that the position is more than a the new policy is a reasonable solution; the and financial control. Basically, his routine job. It requires skill to be able to present system should be used until a task contribution has been to allow assist the rectors in the management of the force can study the situation for next year. Notre Dame to be able to support 
the creative programs· for which
residence halls and to be able to "provide The responsibility to provide financial aid 
Notre Dame and the indivjduals
moral leadership." Presently, RA's are for students who need it is important and has 
involved in the programs get the
required to attend a two-credit-hour semin·ar received much study and consideration. But credit. I have heard him compli­in which they explore and· discuss the anything that affects a stttdent's outlook on mented many times by some of the handling of the problems they face. Notre Dame as· closely as his relationship outstanding financial people in the 
Under the new system, with a probable with his hall staff should take precedence. country, 
It is unfortunate that, as a practitioner of the "dismal sci­ence," he has not had the visibility· 
You a:rw,~ 
he deserves. Much of this lack of visibility is by his own choice, but a

-You SPEAK 
result of it has been that his contributions have not been gener­ally appreciated outside those close 

AfRICANI 
associates who work with him in 
I

I 
the University. 
A second great contribution he .has made is to the athletic pro­gram. It is no accident that Notre Dame can say that athletes gradu­ate from, not just attend, Notre Dame, and that they earn their degrees. As Chairman of the Athletic Committee, Father Joyce helps establish and supervise the policies that have allowed Notre Dame to maintain the highest ethical standards in an activity that, in some other schools, has not been known for its adherence to 
honesty. 
Because of his innate modesty, this letter will probably cause him some embarrassment. For that I am sorry, but once' in twenty-five years I hope he will accept this sincere word of thanks from me and others who appreciate what he has 
done, doing  and it.  who  admire  him  for  
Dr.  Thomas P. Carney Oass ofl937  

[Dr. Carney is a member of the Board of Trustees and the Board of Fellows.] 
Bars Issue 
two-sided 
Dear Editor: 
Living on Notre Dame Ave., I find myself residing in the middle of the local bars (yeh!) However, the recent (but not new) complaint of local residents to the noise, litter and other public nuisances in the area is a two-sided issue that ARthur Quigley should also ponder. · 
First of all, I have had attempts made on my person to steal my wallet in our local laundry mat. The robber was a local resident. My other apartment mate has been exposed to near Corby's. Shop­ping, jogging and attempting to come to and from school are not exactly the safest situations. I think that A.';thur Quigley should note the recent ourning of the vacant house on Notre Dame Ave. as done by local residents. We are bothered at least three times a week by children pounding at our door early in the morning to ask to take out our garbage. Twice, "locals" have come to our door with no intentions but to try to enter and view our living situation. 
The Northeast Neighborhood Asociation has never asked me what I feel about living here or offered me any improvements to this sadly-lived-in section of town. South Bend polic~ are very helpful and informative, though. 
Mr. QuigleY', why should Rick Kanser keep your streets clean? He runs his establishment smooth­ly and cleans his area. Nobody appointed him Mr. Sanitation. It should be students' and residents's responsibility to keep a clean area. These people are living in a student area and must. accept this as I accept the fact that I have chosen one of the most unsafe neighbor­hoods in South Bend to live in. When the locals also clean up their trash and "acts" and the students follow suit, then the neighborhood might improve. But don't out the blame entirely ori the bar owners and students of ND-SMC. 
Patty V uksta 

P.S. I love 0-C life. 
,. ------------~--~---~,~-~­
I 

r I I 
Friday, April15, 1977 the observer 5 1 
Letters to a Lonely God I 


To Kevin at Ordination ·~ 
By Reu. Robert Griffin 
This motning, when I awoke, it was seven o'clock and Easter week, and I could hear the trees growing outside. I thought of Kevin being ordained as priest in Sacred Heart Church on Saturday. I said to my dog, Darby O'Gill, who was astonished at being spoken to so early: "I wonder if Kevin knows that from now on, part of him will be forever April?" Darby, puzzled by the metaphysics, thumped his tail three . times on the floor, stretched, yawned, and went back to sleep. Thus left alone, I thought of being newly ordained, feeling stiff and over-dressed in a new black suit. I thought of the burning candles and fresh altar linens and the golden vessels of a first Mass. I pondered the mystery of the Christ-death and the living Lord celebrated in a ministry of sacraments, and of the sorrow and love, birth and death, of friends needing in their lifetimes the words and rituals of peace and grace, but gathered at ordination merely to share in the happiness of the newly hatched priest. Especially I remembered Kevin,at the Easter Vigil last Saturday;' singing the Paschal proclama­tion. 
My dearest friends, standing with me in this holy light, join me in asking God for mercy that he may give his unworthy minister grace to sing his Easter praises ... Accept this Easter candle, a flame divided but undimmed, a pillar of fire that glows to the honor of God . ..May the Morning Star which never sets find this flame still burnin~; Christ, that Morning Star, who came back from the dead, and sheds his peaceful light on all mankind... 
Oh, Kevin, do you know that in your life as a priest, candles cannot be compared to thee as light from the light, (lumen de luminel) of the Morning Star? 
You know, Kevin, a long time ago when we were both younger, I was your teacher; and I shared with you the way I felt about Hemingway and Salinger and Fitzgerald. Now, on the before your ordination, I want to share another lesstm, not expecting that it will be truth for your life, but hoping it might. I want to mention to you the children and the Eucharist. 
On the streets of Portland, Maine, on my second day home as a newly-ordained priest, I discovered the blessed advantage (there are a number of nuisances) of wearing the Roman collar. I must have been thinking of encyclicals that afternoon, or considering the horns of a dilemma issuing from a recent papal bull. Suddenly, I dis~overed I had been sighted by a posse of Catholic children, on their way home from school, who instantly took me prisoner with their smiles and shyly-whis­pered hellos. For them, I was Father, a friend to be trusted as Jesus might be trusted, or the Tooth Fairy. For me, they were representatives of all the children I would ever have--and stand-ins for the children I would never have. Years later, when I visited Northern Maine near Canada, the children met on the sidewalk would be French, and their street greeting would be, "Mon pere, mon pere!" Still, because of the clerical collar, language barriers were leapt over., and those children and I knew that we belonged to each other,, You can't hope for Instant friendship with the street urchins without wearing the collar, Kevin; dangling cruci­fixes and Jerusalem crosses won't do it. In some neighborhoods, you risk arrest, or a thrashing from an irate umbrella (from the godmother) if you frighten children as a stranger who pats them on the head without the credential of a uniform that makes you identifiable as a father they have ciaims on. , 
(I mention the children as one of the fringe benefits of being ordained old-fash­ioned, Kevin.) 
Next to yourself, the gift you will share best is the Eucharist. Others can preach or declare redemption; a scrub lady in a nursing home can baptize just as validly as you. But in the tradition and discipline of the ctmrch, the Eucharist is your business, Kevin. Popes cannot do more with it than 
can do; saints and who lack 

The Entertainment Week 
By Randy Gelber 
On the Tube 
SPORTS SPECTACULAR --(Sat. 4:30 pm 
22) Boxing at its best with Howard Smith meeting Earnie Shavers in a 10 round heavyweight bout. Olympic medal winner Michael Spinks will be challenged by David Ditmar in the middle-weight class. 
THE BLUE MAX--(Sat. 11:15 pm 16) George Peppard stars as a gung-ho German fighter pilot in WWII, also starring Ursula Andress. 
CELEBRITY CHALLENGE OF THE SEX­ES-"(Sun. 8 pm 22) Phyllis George and Vince Scully host this battle of the sexes with such stars as Farrah Fawcett-Majors, Bill Cosby, and Gabe Kaplan competing in such events as tennis, ping-pong, go-carts and skateboarding. 
21 HOURS AT MUNICH--(Sun. 9 pm 28) The tragic story of the Arab terrorists who killed and took hostage of Israeli athletes during the 1972 Olympics starring William Holden and Richard Basehart. 
BASEBALL--( Mon. 8:30 pm 28), The Dod­gers will meet last year's World Series winning Reds in early season baseball. 
MYSTERIES OF THE GREAT PYRAMID­Wed. 8 pm 22) This special documentary investigates the mysteries and wonders of 

Records 

Neil Diamond/ 

Loue at the Greek 
By Scott Appleby 
"The stage--she is the goddamnedest woman you ever saw!", _,. 
From the blue sequin of his latest show suit to the affected gyrations of his lithsome figure, Neil Diamond is made for the stage. Among the regular celebrity night club circuit, he has no peer. He is the unquestioned showman, the popular entre­preneur of all that is exuberant and infectious and irresistably maudlin in the musical entertainment business" 
With this in mind, one should expect that Diamond's newest release, Love at the Greek·-a double album recorded live at the Greek theatre in Los Angeles--would inculcate a good bit of that fabricated, appealing image. 
And indeed it does--perhaps to its eventual discredit. What Diamond has effected in this follow-up to the 1973 Greek concert (Hot Aligust Night) is an aggran­dizement of his stereotypic portrait of passionate-lover-turned-entertainer. He certainly has us believing it in such classic, ageless songs as "Holly Holy" and "Sweet Caroline": his inflection is colored by just the right amou,nt of energy and enthusi­asm. He asks us to believe in him only as a singer expressing himself , through his natural, mutually understood medium. Thus, when he approaches a number head-on, as he happily does in several instances on this album, he is honest, articulate, often moving. The audience, both "live" and vicarious, is entertained because they are accepting the "act"--the psuedo-lover or evangelist or moralist or whatever·-without realizing that it Is just a sham. 
So far, so good. While restrained, Diamond has captured our sensibil~ties. But it is when he overreaches this mutual ordination cannot even speak the mystic words. If you were a surgeon, you would be concerned with heartbeats. if you were a lawyer, you would reverence a tradition called the law. If you were a singer or dancer, harmony would entrance you; if you were a poet, you would love the word. For us, as priests, the Mass is the heartbeat of redemption, the fulfillment of the law, the love feast of the Word made Flesh, the harmony of love and suffering with lyrics and music by God and man. 

I'm not telling you news you have never heard before, Kevin; I'm not trying to preach to you. I just want to assure you that in the twenty-three years of priesthood I know about, the Mass does not grow less wonderful. Celebrations of the Eucharist will shape your life: leading you up many a dark stairway, down alleys where you never planned to go. (Only as a priest would I ever have lived on 42nd streeet). Some days, rituals will bore you with routine; your gospel proclamations will seem tired; as often as not, you will find yourself the minister ministered unto. Just at the moment when your , faith feels dullest, you will look around and see faces as friendly and happy as those of school children who have surprised you on the street and claimed you as a Father. The feeling is like being ordained again. 
It is the Eucharist kept fresh in faith, Kevin, that keeps our priesthood in an April mood. In a vineyard where Christ is the Vine, and we are the branches, all of us--~lie most recently ordained, the oldest cleric~-are alive with the newness of springtime belonging to the Lord as his eternal feast. The Eucharist is eternity revealed in a moment when Jesus is recognized in the daily breaking of the bread. 
Oh, Kevin, as a priest celebrating mysteries spanning the lifetime of God, I cannot feel old; yesterday, today, and tomorrow are like my ordination day. In the proper season of my life, when the years have had their fill of me, I will shuffle off to my Father's house, praising him for the adventure of earth. You, as the younger man sifting dust into the gaping hole, will survive me to say: "Eternal rest and peace, old Griffer." But in the meantime, in our moments together as priests, both of us are still children and always will be children--awaiting the surprises and discoveries of God's summer day. 
As I mentioned earlier, at seven o'clock this morning, when I tried to explain this to Darby O'Gill, he stretched, yawned, and went back to sleep. Two things you can't explain to a cocker spaniel: forever April, and the eternal priesthood. 
I hope you understand them, Kevin, because now you are part of both mysteries. Welcome, Kevin. Welcome to the newest pr~ests of C.S.C. 

the Great Pyramid of Cheops, one of the Seven Wonders of theWorld. 
On the Screen 
Forum 1: The Eagle Has Landed, an uneven adaptation of Jack Higgins' novel about · a Nazi plot to kidnap Churchill, s~arring Donald Sutherland, Robert Duvall, Michael Caine. Forum 2: Mr. BUUon, starring Terrence Hill, the fifth-biggest box-office attraction in the world, as an Italian who inherits one billion dollars and a lot of greedy enemies. 
Boller House 1: A Star Is Bom, starring Barbra Streisand and Kris Kristofferson. Boiler House 2: The SUver Streak, romantic comedy adventure set aboard a passenger train, starring Gene Wilder,· Jill Clay­burgh, Richard Pryor. Town and Country 1: Rocky, a captivating tale of a boxer who gets a shot at the heavyweight title, and with it a few of things life cheated him of. Sly Stallone, 

silent agreement and launches into an undisciplined, capricious facade that we cant help but notice that he is not sincere. 
On "Song Sung Blue", an uncontrover­sial little ditty in the studio, Diamond destroys the mood he has set in the previous soft set by hauling of all people, Helen Reddy up on stage to join in a sterile chorus. As if this is not enough, she is followed by the notorious "Fonz", Henry Winkler, who turns the song into a Jaff-a-minute comedy routine. 
Perhaps this little bit of shallow audience Talia Shire, Burgess Meredith; Burt Young. Scottsdale: Airport 77, this year's airborne disaster film, starring half of Hollywood. River Park Theatre: Bound for Glory, 'an utterly enthralling biography of folk singer Woody Guthrie, one of the best visual films I have ever seen. 


On Campus 
. CATCH-22--(Sat., Sun. 7, 9:15, 11:30 Engineering Aud. $1) This bizarre comedy stars Alan Arkin as a WWII soldier posing as a lunatic to get his ticket home. 
CAT BALLOU--(Fr., Sat. 7, 9, 11 Carroll Hall $1) A western comedy about a girl (Jane Fonda) who hires a gunslinger to find her father's killer. Lee Marvin stars in a double role as the gunslinger and the killer. 
PSYCHO--(Fri. 7, 9, 11 Engineering Aud. $1) Hitchcock's masterpiece psychological thriller starring Anthony Perkins. 
manipulation would offend only the musi­cal purist who ca,me to be entertained by talent and not by extemporaneous malarky. But Diamond does nothing to disabuse himself of the haunting impression that the excitement and enthusiasm in his voice is half gravel, half money. 
In side four, the composer performs artistic suicide by squeezing the 45-minute genius of orchestration and melody, "Jon­athan Livingston Seagull" into a 15 minute pop medley worthy of only the amateurish. 
Not rttat all of this is traumatically bad business; in fact, it holds a certain amount of desirability, considering that Diamond is playing to an audience of such diverse age and background. (Only King Elvis rivals Diamond in across-the-board commercial draw.) And one certainly cannot claim that Lave at the Greek is wholly devoid of vigorous performing and arranging; on the .contrary, its fine moments ('Beautiful Noise," for example) offer a glimpse of an excellent, talent at his peak. 
It is simply a sad fact that the stage, like any mistress, is fleeting, momentary, illusory. With a talent like Neil Diamond she becomes, in the succinct description of top UMOC candidate Otto, "a dream far too beautiful to be believed.'' 

the observer Friday, April15, 1977
6 

r 


Farley intruder arrested on return visit to ND 
!continued from page 3] and he wanted to know where a hospital was. I recognized him as 
[he man who had been in Farley W ectnesday night. I told my friend '' hn was with me that we had 
bc·ttcr leave. He demanded more lllftlrm;.ttion. and started swearing .il us when we wouldn't leave. He ,!cmanded more information. and -:ancd ~wearing when we wouldn't .!i'c t! to him. We went into the i!uddle and called Security."' 
SecuritY police arrived. put the man in their car. and brought him 
1.1 the SecuritY Office. The man 
. as arrested by Notre Dame police. ,1nce he had been instructed not to t<'[llrn to Notre Dame. and was 
•r.<nsported to the County Jail in ..,,,t.th Bend. Officer Moulder 
TUiited the Farlev residents for ·h·,r cooperation i~ the capture of 
An Tostal plans Superstars event 
A "Superstars ('ompetition" will replace the decathlon event during An Tostal. 
Contestants will choose to com­pete in five out of eight events. including golf. swimming, free­thrm'. pool. pinball, obstacle course. bike race and "chug and run. 
For more information call John Talbot. 1692. or Eric Schmitt,1738 before next Wednesday. 
Applications available: 
Student Union commission 
All those interested in applying for Student Union commission posts should either pick up an application form from the Student Government office secretary or 
·submit a summary of qualifica­tions in writing to Tom Gryp. as soon as possible. 
Student lobby 
Applications will be available beginning Monday, April 18, for students interested in joining next vear's student lobbv. Those interested in a position on the student lobby should stop in at the Student Government office as soon as possible. 
HPC secretary 
Anyone interested in applying for secretary of the Hall Pres­idents Council should submit their names to Marv McCormick or J.P. Russell in" the Student Government offices. second tloor Lafortune Student Center. No ~pecial qualifications or previous experience are required. Dead­line for applications is April 1 Sth. The new secretary wiJI be approved by the HPC on -April 19. 
Angers program 

--to be discussed 
Notre Dame's program in An­gers will be the topic discussed on Dave Anderson's weekly interview ;;how "Window on Campus" Sun­day at 11:45 a.m. on WNDU-TV, ~hannel 16. 
Anderson's guests will be Mari­anne Corr, a junior majoring in government, who spent last year in Angers, and Dr. James Ward ofthe history department, recently re­turned from two years of directing the Angers program (1974-76). fhey will discuss the opportunities :md attractions offered to Notre Dame and St. Mary's students who :boose to spend their sophomore 
;ear living with a French family md pursuing their studies in 
;-ra11ce. · · • ·., ".. ·-•""·· .... 

the man. 
According to Sr. Jean Lenz, Farley Hall rectress, several res­idents of Farley were upset Wed­nesday night when they learned that the intruder was not turned over to police. "I was concerned at first. too," she commented, "but after Security's explanation of the 
law. I saw that there was little they could do under the circumstan­ces. 
Roemer defended Security's ac­tions. stating. "If a crime, such as an assault, had been committed. there would be no question about the fact that an arrest would have been made immediately, and the 
man immediately taken to jail. In the situation of trespassing, the general policy is not to make an arrest. 
"In this case, we didn't feel that there was the possibility of f1,1rther 
.violence, and didn't feel that an · arrest would be the best thing. We thought that the best thing would be to get the man away from here," he said . 
'·We have no official policy on this matter, because every in­dividual situation is so unique," Roemer explained further. "Thou­sands of people come onto this campus every year who are not members of the community. We have to use common sense in theis situation properly, but regret deciding which pose a serious risk that the Farley residents were of crime. I feel that we handled alarmed." 

Play It Again, Sam by Woody Allen April 15th, 22nd, 23rd 8:00pm in the Nazz Admission $1.00 

tractions, slang or plural words are allowed. If you can make thirty or more words, you've met the challenge! 
€ht t:uhmial 

Fancak£ lnus£ ~ 
OUR SPECIALTY 
OVEN-BAKED 

APPLE PANCAKES 
You'll be back for more 
US 31 (Dixieway North) in Roseland (Across from Holiday Inn) 

Your challenge is to form as many. words of four or more letters as you can by using only the letters in the word below. No names, con­

11~--­ 
12  22  
3.  13___  23--~­ 
4.-~~­ 14_____  24 ____  



PBAtfUTS 
25.____ 16___ 26 ____ 
5 15 
6----~ 

7. 17 27 8 18 28 19 ___ 29 ____ 20 30 
........·' ..... 
When there's a challenge, quality makes the difference. 
We hope you have some fun with the challenge. There's another challenge we'd like to offer you, too. 
The Pabst challenge: 
We welcome the chance to prove the quality of our beer. We challenge you to taste and compare Pabst Blue Ribbon to any other premium beer. You'll like Pabst better. Blue Ribbon quality means the best tasting beer .you can get. Since 1844 it always has. 
PABST. Since 1844. The quality has always come through. 
©1976. PABST BREWING COMPANY Milwaukee. W1s., Peoria Heights. Ill., Newark. N.J., Los Angeles, Calif., Pabst, Georgia. 
3lVS 3NVS !SV3 lNnv !S3N lN3dS 31NV dVNS NVdS NndS 3NnllV3S lV3d JV3N .• , J.\E!d.3Sn'lld J.NJl<l.LI\Iilcl.lN35> 'lNitd.3.111dS ikJVl 31Vd <llS:<I<i lSVd.J3LS NnlS dlt:W3diiN 3NVd :sp,oofOfiU!UIJ~;. JI)Q 
Friday, Aoril15, 1977 the observer 1_
25 countries represented 

ISO to sponsor 'free' international festival 
by Dave Kavanaugh 

Sixty-five international stud~nts representing 25 foreign countnes, including 16 students from the Republic of China, will perform 
Hunger ·coalition plans workshop 
by Jim Kotorac 

A three-part workshop on the 
subject of world hunger will be held 
Sunday as part of the Hunger 
Coalition's food and justice series. 
The sessions, free of charge and 
open to all, will be held in Room 
124 of Hayes-Healy. 
A general background on world 
poverty and the current methods of 
dealing with the problem will be 
presented at the first session. from 
1:30 p.m. to 3:15 p.m. 
The focus of the second session, which runs from 3:30 p.m. until 
5:30 p.m .. will be upon different social and economic models. in­cluding China, Africa and the U.S., and the degree of technology needed to cope with poverty sit­uations in the different environ­ments. 
The final session. from 7 p.m. to 
8:30 p.m.. will deal with the political and economic aspects of world hunger. Trade and lobbying will be the topics concentrated upon at this session. 
The workshop will be run by 
Sheldon Gellar and Warren Hen­egar. Gellar, professor of political science at Indiana University at , Bloomington, is a specialist in African and Third World problems. Henegar received his masters in agronomy at Purdue and is a farmer in Bloomington. Currently 
he serves as a board member of 
Bread for the W or! d. 
The food and justice series begins tonight with a presentation on corporate responsibility. The activities of the Gulf and Western Corporation in the Dominican Republic will be discussed by Joseph Mulligan, S.J. The pre­sentation begins a,t 7';30 p.m. and will also be held in Hayes-Healy. 
~aturaay mght at 7:30 p.m. m tival is to thank the foreign Washington Hall. A reception for students' host families and the the performers and the general South Bend community as a public in the basement of LaFor-whole." tune will follow the two-hour perform-Through the International Hos­an~e. All stud_en~s and South Bend pitality Prog~am, interested. st~­restdents are mvtted to attend the dents are asstgned a host family m Inte~national Festival and the re-a foreign country. The Hospitality cept10n afterwards free of charge. Program also offers picnics, re-
The event is sponsored by the ceptions, Christmas parties and a International Students Organizaion 'wives group' through which wives of Notre Dame and St. Mary's and of international students share is hosted chiefly by foreign stu-their culture with American wives. dents attending ND or St. Mary's. The festival on Saturday night According to Chairman William will begin with a group led by 
!'>word, "The purpose of the fes-Peggy Curtin of the Celtic Society, 
............•.....................
-

: TIMM PARTY STORE-: :oPEN: MON-SAT 9 am-11 pm:• SUNDAY 12 noon-11 pm • : COLD BEER, PACKAGE UQUOR,: : WINE, GOURMET FOODS : : 3114 S. 11 ST. Nn.ES, MICHIGAN: 
: 1 Block North of state line on U.S. 31 : 
BILL 
Woody Guthrie 
11119 

His life has touched 
1JIP.O'WIIII 
all of our lives. 

&A.IJRIDAW IIIIIGt-~•
..• ............. .
This is his story. 

SAT & SUN 3:30-7:45 
who will perform folk dances of Ireland. This will be followed by several French songs, sung by Michelle Batacan and othe~ ~em­bers of the European Assoctatt~n. 
Ali Awi~ and others r~presentmg the Islamtc culture will present an. ii!strume~tal called 'Song of ~he Mtddle East · The Ra~s, a. native form of dance from lndta, will then be performed. . . 
The students fr~m Chma wt_ll perform a few pteces o~ th~tr normal two-hour show, wht~h m-eludes a Kung-Fu demon.stratton, a 
'festival. The Polynesian show wil' 
highlight a Hawaian dance by Cor, 
Ching and a Samoan dance b)' 
William Sword. 
The Latin American act features 
songs from Puerto Rico, Cuba and 
Dominican Republic. Following 
the international acts, comediar, 
Jules Thompson will perform. The 
show will end with a sing-along ir 
seven different languages. 
At the reception following tht 
show, students will entertain anc 
some foreign dishes, provided b) 
the host families, will be served. 
-;.:.l=~~d~a~nc~e~a~n~d~a~C~h·t~n/lels~e.fo·l·k-,._,_.,.r~••••,........~~ 
Henry, We hope your whachama­Vote for Alumni Hall's favorite dog:NOTICES Rooms for rent this summer. Very callit feels better after the surgery -Otto for UMCOreasonable, and just a few blocks 

Classified Ads 
too bad they didn't save it in a jar ­Logan Center Volunteers: Overn ite from Notre Dame. Phone 277-3604. 
you might have used it later! Deebles, I'm at a loss for smart
campout April 16-17. Meet at Logan FOR SALE remarks. What a loss! Oh, by theCenter on Sat. at 11 :30 a.m. Will 4 bedrooms, furnished apartment Desperately need graduation tickets way, I thought you said you weren't
return Sun. 3:3(1 p.m. Bring sleep­within walking distance of campus. Ovation guitar, many extras with Will pay. Call Dan 3315. ticklish. Ging bags-blankets. Meals will be Call William Hill, 232-1724. case. Best offer. John 1164. 
-----+---------­
provided. We need lots of volun­All Micron Delta Epsilon Members: To the Sun Goddess in 122 BP
teers so bring a friend! Any ques­Two bedroom house to rent. Sum­For Sale: Schwinn Cintinental 10­Party tonight at 9:00 p.m. in Grace Good luck with "Sam." You'll knocktions call Sue Maude 277.1182 or mer and-or school year. 1012 Eddy 
speed 26" blue. 18 months old. New 
Hall penthouse for Dr. Murray 'em dead. Your avid fan, The UserStreet. $120 mo. plus utilities. C<~ll
Jim Scott 283-3975. tires, mint condition. $110 firm. Ted Weidenbaum. See you there.
Oddies Harris at 232-8563. 
8691 313 Stanford. · · 
S.K.F. four U.N.O.C.
NEED TYPING? Executary, Inc. 
Do it! Freshmen! Move your arses!
Professional Typing Service. 10 ty. Wanted! Summer renters. Five Pioneer SX 626, Dual 1215 turn­
Ask that date today! Jimmy, Happy 19th! Have "three"
pists . various typestyles. Term bedroom house. Excellent condition, 
table, Shure cartridge $200 Chip 
on me. Love. B. E.
papers: $.85 page. Resumes: $2.00 good location. Rent negotiable. Call 7854. 
Do EUROPE your own way, cheap­
page. Call 232-0898. 8436. 
ly, 2·6 weeks. Call Chris NOW _8728. JJ Norkus, Where are you?????
'73 Fiat 124 Spyder. Convertible,
Apartment for rent. 2 bedrooms ·
Niles Auction, 802 Fort St. 684-low miles. Sharp. $2500.00 or best Want to find out whO you are and Mary, Happy belated b-day! Have c.
6954 or 684-4671. Auction every utilities paid. $140 month. 287-6823. 
offer. 234-5002 or 683-2090. 
where you're going? Come to the great time <as only you can have,Friday 7:30. We buy and sell Values Clarification-Life Planning occasionally). Sorry I had to miss it.
furniture, appliances, antiques, and NIKKOR 28mm F 3.5 lens. Mint Workshop, Saturday, April 16, noon Love, CewaLOST& FOUND
misc. items daily 12:00 p.m. to 6 condition. Asking only $125. Call to 6 p.m. in Counseling Center, Rm. 
p.m. 
272-1428. 

400, Admin. Bldg. Call 1717 for P.J. Remember this Easter always.
Lost: Metal key chaip tag -engraved 
more info. Love, your little green gumby
EUROPE-WORLDWIDE academic both sides -initial "G"-teardrop 
Stereo tape recorder. Revox Mark IV discounts year roung S.A. T.A. 4228 shape. Greg 287-8395. $250 AR turntable with Shure V15 
ST. MARY'S REPORTERS MEET· Kathy and Monica (members of the
First, Tucker, Ga. 30084 (800) $85.00 Dynaco FM-3 $70 Call 288­lNG tonight at 7 p.m. in Regina best looking triple): Thanks for a
241-9082. Lost: Black leather gloves near 
1681. basement office. Call Jean (5165) if year of friendship and love. Remem­Hayes-Healy. Call Debbie 7906. 
you can't attend. Please come!! ber Sunday nights. I will miss you.
Accurate, fast typing. Mrs. Donoho. 
The Third Member
232-0746 Hours: 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. Tie tack transparent stone with PERSONALS Hank, Candace wants to know howBuddha-elephant head. 283-1706 or the belt is working. G Hey Scorned Woman, Please re­
TYPING. Call Carolyn at 232-9061. 272-7623 or G-32 Lib. Morton Kel-Is nothing sacred? The Personals sey. FUTURE MCCANDLESS RESI· 
lease us from your hellatious fury.
lie! Yesterday was not Mo Reynolds' 
The earth is roasting.
Overeaters Anonymous Meeting: birthday. Gad! DENTS: Vote for Rober1:s and Saturday's 10:30 a.m. Holy Cross L.ost:·one pair glasses, black, metal Rothfuss on April 18. Lynn and Mo ­
Janet W (Lyons(, So close and yet so
House Information? Call 284-5239. frame, black, plastic case. Call Dave McCalpin IS ugly. Give him The Way to Go! 
far. We wish we could get to knowKevin 1682. 
your pennies and votes. 
you better -your secret admirers.
Vote for Karen Bickel and Valerie America! Mock Stock Market 10-3 Tomorrow is Mary McBride's 19th Homola -McCandless Hall officers. Old Bus. Blog. WANTED "Something for everyone" April18. Ugly Man is coming. Save your ND Finance Club is bullish on 
birthday. Call her and wish her a 
pennies.
happy one. 4-5101. Free University Notice: Deadline for Need driver(s) to Princeton N.J. due To the Bun, Knock, Knock... Who's 
Dear Beautiful Cindy S.: One last
teacher signup is this Friday, April to injury. Will pay all extra ex. MM, Happy 19th. Hope you get a there? Anita... Anita Who? Anita Personal from an amiable admirer. I15. Call 7757 now if you have any penses. Leave 14th or 15th. Contact say Happy Bunday Birth. Jobe)f.
round. Tuit tomorrow night. Lots of 
would very much like a rendez­
questions. Patterson, rm. 303 Morris Inn. Ph. Charbey, O.C. Pierre, Zip Buddy ,
love, Jeanine, Gina, Chris and Sue 
and Neddly. (The Suckahs) vous with you, but one ingredient is
234-0141. 
missing. Care to add that special
Surefoot, One of the most beauti· 
quality which only you can? Your
You don't even have to pay capital 4 housemates wanted. 5 bedroom, 4 Happy Birthday SNOW FOX', but
ful qualities of true friendship is to 
Connoisseur, Thomas
gains taxes when you invest in the miles from campus. Good neigh­don't celebrate too hard, you'll need
understand and to be understood.
Mock Stock Market. borhood. Pool table, color. TV. $75 all your energy for tomorrow night. 
per month per man. 233-2706. Love, Lightning Dave. P.S. When are my lessons? Dear Lovely Liz: Lately, I have really missed your beautiful smile in
Come give 21 swate at Mary
Wanted: Experienced fem. BAR For 1977, Why not the worst. Otto Music. I hope that the Easter Bunny
FOR RENT Scheller celebration picnid. Satur­
for UMOC was warm and cuddly enough forMAID. Excellent wages. Hours 
day . 1:00 p.m. Bendix Woods. 
.you. When can I meet the "bun­Available for summer and-or fall. flexible. 2622 S. US 31, Tele. BYOS . ny" of my dreams? Carrot Top
Studio Apt. close to campus. $90 per 683-6644. FUTURE MCCANDLESS RESI­month. furnished. Call 287-7739. THE FANTASTIC FRESHMEN 
DENTS: Vote for Roberts and The Distillery Liquor Store has Rothfuss on April 18. Lynn and Mo Senior Women: Am seeking a
---------------FORMAL -SATURDAY NIGHT 
The Way to Go! personable date for Senior Formal.
2 excellent houses in fine neigh­opemings fro: 2 nights per week, 
· 9pm-lam IN THE ACC CON­
Will share expenses. Athletic typeborhoo€1s. Each ideal for 4-6 stu­starting immediately. Must be 21, COURSE ROOM! BE THERE!
good appearance. Applu in person Colleen Hickey, Happy Birthday, preferred. Call Wildman Ducanis atdents. Cost adjusted to number of 
_______________.._
U51.
1723 South Bend Ave. Cuz. We finally reached the big 21.
students $225-$300 plus utilities. To those who haven't heard: Anne Have a great day and I'll see you
Call Mr. Gatto 234-6688. and 1are engaged; the wedding's in Hello Marle...Happy Birthday to
Wanted: Grad student The Red tonight. Love, Katy
August! CF M.J.ll "This one's for you" Jove,
5-bedroom house, real nice, large Door Liquor Store has opening for Henry-Claire, Pierre, Proteus · & 
living room and kitchen, fully fur­Assistant Manager position. Hours Joe and Tom talk about alternative
What to do next year? -Try.JVC~ Starch
nished, close to campus, has burglar are flexible. Apply in person at The Library Lobby & Campus Ministry lifestyle and service. Library Lobby -------------=-"11alarm, call Charlie Moore 272-7180. Distillery 1723 South Bend Ave. & Campus Ministry West-Badin,
West-Badin, Tuesday, April 19th. 
. Tu 
day A ril t . . . . ... . . .. '. . 'l..' r, r ..-, ./ • • .,. ... '"i •, • ..., ~ .........
.... ~~..·.~-~.· ·, ' . .•..·~-·..~ ..... :•...." ·_.~....·_.·.~...·.· • ~ .,... ;.."j,.,..-............ ·.. • . ...... ' • '· ·• \... • ,1.,1',.f'4.\. ' • 
Black Sunday

2S~~~~~~MI;;~I~~\
SHOW FRI-SAT 

"ROCKY HORROR 
PICTURE SHOW" j 
Rated R 
~l 
I 
l I 
I I 1 I 
1 
--I 1 
-

~ ___the ob__~_erver Friday, April15, 1977 
Bookstore tourney play continues 

I I­I I I I 
~ 
! ~ 
by Frank LaGrotta Sports Writer 
The first round of Notre Dame's annual Bookstore Basketball ex­travaganza continued yesterday with Women's Liberation stealing the show in the premier game of the day. LAW, led by Notre Dame basketball stalwart Jeff Carpenter and former Irish grid All-American Greg Marx, took on the Green Machine, a team comprised of five Notre Dame women, and emerged victorious by a 21-7 margin. 
There was little doubt that the Green Machine came ready to play JS they arrived on the scene dressed in light green game shirts and green hot pants. Coa_ches Anne Boland and Mary Massman arrived garbed in three-piece suits and carnations that rivaled Dig­ger's finest attire. However, LAW proved to be too much for the courageous females, as Marx's six buckets and Carpenter's five allow­ed the men to advance to the next round of Bookstore action. 
Dana Snoap, a member of last year's All-Bookstore team, tallied 4 baskets for the winners while Marcia "AI" Mach, Anne "Chris­tine" Massulo and Mary "Mike" Ryan finished the day with two buckets apiece for the Green Machine. 
this semester. SOUTH QUAD ALL STARS 
Howard-St. Ed's: Andy Schmitt (FB) Bob Digan (C) Jim Bowers (DT) Dan Tranel (QB) Pete Achacoso (MG) 
Pangborn: Don Vaultman (TE) John Franko (DB) Gary Hankamer (OL) 
Morrissey: Art Hoesterey (LB) Tom Gorman (HB) Dan Borelli (OG) Bill McManus (DT) Joe Lavign (DT) 
Fisher: Mike Natale (OLB) Dave Feldman (DHB) Gerald Miles (HB) Jay Raffer (SE) 
Dillon: Bill Griffin (QB) Tim Holroyd (SE) Dave Krempecki (OG) Jim Trizna (DT) 
Off-Campus: Billy Sahm (QB) Bob Derdak (C) Jim Dwyer (LB) 
NORTH QUAD ALL STARS 
Flanner: Mark Coons (QB) Philip Volpe (RB) Mike Schuff (end) Chris Luning (OT) Rich Neville (DT) Chris Nagle (DB) 
Holy Cross.' Chuck Nowland (RB) 


As the annual Bookstore Basketball Tournament progresses, the ability to capture loose balls becomes more important. [Photos by Barbara Dodge and leo Hansen] 
In the George Gipp Sectional, one of last year's Final Four teams, the Nutmeggers, staged a 21-16 come-from-behind victory over Ba Ka Ya Do. The Nutmeggers, down at one point 16-14, relied on tight defense to put their opponents away. Mike Howard led the win­ners wiht seven tallies, while Mark Meyer added five to the cause. Mike Meyer, last year's "Mr. Bookstore" hit on four attempts as 
.----------------------------, 
IH football stars feted 
Certificates of award were presented to members of the 1976-77 Interhall Football All Star teams last evening. It was the second year for the presentation which is awarded by the HPC and Inter hall football coaches. 
Members for both the men's and women's teams were chose~ on the basis of their "personal performance, excellent sportsmanship.' and hard work." The men's north and south quad all star squad Js the same team that was chosen at midseason by coaches prior to the All Star game. , . 
The female star gridders were chosen by the women s mterh_all coaches in cooperation with the HPC Women's Sports Board earher 
Chris Persywa (OT) Stu Robl'nson (DE) 1 Larry McCrief (DB)  . Anne ·Berges, Lewis (S) (S)Susie Agustus, Lyons  
Stanford:  Best  Coaching  Staff:  Lewis--Don:  

.;K::e:i~th::..;,V~g;on;;;e~(R;;B~)~-----,.;B;p.u,;;r;.;n;;;;s~a;,;;n;,;;d•B;,;;r,;ia;.;n~E~l~p.;,e,.rs,____.,.ill!. 
Ray Oliu (RB) Lenny Larcarra (C) Bill Horan (OG) Dave Wenke! (DT) John Jananzzo (LB) 
Coach: Mike Parseghian from Kee­nan 
Grace: Matt Ratterman (QB) Dave Betlack (RB) Pete McCarthy (end) Mark Kolas (DE) Jerry Marks (DB) 
Keenan: Brian Mullins (C) Mark Norman (OG Ed Denko (PK) Jim Kerrigan (LB) Pat Concannon (LB) Frank Hopke (DB) 
Zahm: MarkWurzel (RB) Tom Wrape (C) Steve Sulentic (OL) Jim Lukeman (OL) Ron Tucker (DB) 
WOMEN'S ALL STAR TEAM 
Offense: Anne Eisele, Walsh (QB) 
Sue Behnke, Lewis (RB) Chris Datzman, Farley (RB)­Maria O'Neill, Farley (C) Michelle O'Haren, Lyons (E) Becky Thornton, Walsh (E) Kathy Kenny, Farley (T) Jane Politiski, Badin (T) 
Defense: Libby Galloway, Lyons (Dl) Maryann Kay, Badin (DL)
Ruth Hohl, Breen-Phillips (DL) 
Chris Burns, Badin (LB)L (LB)
Jill DeLucia, yons Kathy Schneider, B-P (LB) 
d1d Tim Kardock as the Nutmeg­gers showed 24 baskets in 40 attempts on the day. 
For Ba Ka Ya Do, the high-scor­ing honors went to Pete Cuilla who's four timely tallies in the first halfled his team to an early nine to four lead over the eventual win­ners. Cuilla finished the day with five buckets and Bob Key added four to Ba Ka Ya Do's losing effort. 
In the highest scoring contest in this year's tournament, thus far, 
D.F. and the Fumducks outshot Bak's Jocks 26-24.Joe McGuire led the Fumducks with 14 baskets, the best individual scoring effort of this year's tourney, while Cresswell Hizer turned in 12 for Bak's Jocks. 
The day was marked by some outstanding individual perform­ances, most notably, Dan Short's 12 buckets, which included four dunks (high for the tournament thus far). Short led his team, Colonel Leo's Fighting Legions to a 21 to 3 thrashing of the <.;o~os. 
Dean Merton also exh1b1ted mer­itous accuracy as his 10 for 14 shooting performance from the field led Gary Gillmore's Salt Lake City Sharpshooters to a 21-13 win over Foul Mouth. 
Bookstore action continues to­night at 6:15 behind when the tournament's number two-seeded team, Ebony Magic, led by Toby Knight, Luther Bradley and Dan Knott, take on Gary Gilmore's Firing Squad. First round action winds up on Saturday when a full schedule of 64 games are schedul­ed at the three Bookstore sites. 
Tournament Director, Tim Bour­
.....,_.-...,...~JWil.,.....'M:I.Imt&·irAIA41'11atf~.u:...M·~...,..w.a:lll(~..._. 




%Observer 



Sports 
RuQQersopen home 
season tomorrow 
The Notre Dame Rugby Team spent its spring break touring the South. The Ruggers kept Notre Dame's dominance over Alabama intack by defeating Birmingham in their first outing 6-0. 
The Irish then traveled to Jack­sonville, Fla., where Notre Dame won a one-sided battle 22-7. The very next night found them in Savannah, Ga., playing under the lights against a very experienced Hilton Head club. This time the Irish fell short , 16-3. 
Since spring break, the Irish have beaten Illinois State 11-8 and Ball State 22-0. The ruggers lost a tough contest over Easter to the Cleveland Greys 18-13. 
Captain Leo Ehrline leads the backfield which boasts two drop­kick specialists in Mike McGlinn and Tony Mendiola. Center John O'Connell, Greg Zipf, wing George Spiegel and Mark Tovey add to the Irish attack.. 
The serum is handled by captain Terry Roche and veteran Mczeal Chavez. The heart of the serum is the team's old man, Bob Olsen, who guides rookies Kevin Corocran 
and Pat Georgio in addition to veterans Tom Clements, Tom h N · d Ch J' 
Coyne, Jo n oms an ar Je 
Folktflan. Injuries have changed the club's
h h h If d 
roster, wit more t an a a -ozen
d I' d H th'
regulars ·si e me . oweverb, lS has giVen some young mem ers a 1
1 d th h d

chance to p ay an ey ave one1 more than an ample job. The Irish open their home season this Saturday agai~st the tough 
Indy Reds. The games start at 
12:00 noon and will be played behind Stepan Center. 
Varsity Tennis 

The Fighting Irish tennis team will host the Notre Dame Triangu­lar today and tomorrow on the Courtney Courts behind the Athle­tic and Convocation Center. 
Bowling Green and Northern Illinois will come to Notre Dame for the competition. The two schools will battle against one another starting at 3 pm today. 
Notre Dame will begin play on Saturday morning at 9 am. The Irish will also be competing again Saturday afternoon. 
lnterha/1 Tennis 

The lnterhall Tennis Tournament will be held this Saturday and Sunday with play beginning at 9:15 a.m., weather permitting. 
Participants in both men's and women's divisions, singles and doubles, are tequired to meet at the courts by 8:45 a.m. Saturday. At this time, rules and procedures~ will be discussed. 
The draw and starting times will also be posted at this time. Any. contestant not appearing at the meeting will be scratched from competition. . 
All mixed doubles matches will be played on Sunday. These players need not appear until Sunqay at 8:45 a.m . 
ret announced that Sunday's se­cond round action will be highlight­ed by the annual "Bookstore Bonanza," when seven of the tournament's top-ranked teams will play in succession behind the bookstore. The schedule for Bour­ret's Bookstore Bonanza is as follows: 
1:45 pm: the Tiles, featuring Dave Batton, Joe Montana and John Dubenetsky. 
2:30 pm: Ebony Magic (barring an unforseen first round upset) Star­ring Toby Knight, L:Ither Bradley and Dan Knott. 
3:15 pm: The Butcher Brothers (barring an unforseen first round upset) who's roster includes Bruce Flowers, Kevin Hart and Dave Huffman. 
4:00 pm: LAW, featuring Jeff Carpenter and Greg Marx. 
5:30 pm: Scrupes and the Pink Decks with a Notre Dame Baseball lineup of Jim Sholl, Mike Bobinsky and Mike Galloway. 
6:15 pm : The Nutmeggers; a squad that Bourret calls the tourna­ment's "Cinderella" team as their lineup includes no varsity athletes. 
Bookstore director Bourret is requesting that all team captains provide a scorekeeper for Saturday and Sunday games. Sixty-four games will be played each day and it is impossible for Bookstore Central to assign an official score­keeper to each contest. If a scorer cannot be found, the teams must start their own game and keep score for themselves. The winning team must report the score to Bookstore Central (3470) after 
11:00 pm Saturday night. 
Sailing team hosts regatta 
The Notre Dame sailing team traveled to Ohio State University this past weekend and competed against several highly-rated mid­western schools. 
The sailing was highly compet­itive, as the Irish finished fifth in a fleet of 11. Yet, the Irish were only tive points behind the third place team. 
Buzz Reynolds sailed A division, and race team captain John Goodill commanded the B division. 
The Notre Dame sailing team is currently rated nineteenth in the country and hopes to qualify for next month's national champ­ionships. 
Next weekend, April 22-24, the Irish will participate in the Ken­nedy Cup, an event for national big boat competition. The competition, which will be held in Annapolis, Maryland, will feature the sailing of 44 foot yawls. 
This weekend, the Irish are hosting an interclub regatta. Racing will begin at 1 p.m. on Saturday at St. Joseph's Lake. All members are invited to compete. For further information, contact Martha at 4-5493 or Lory at 4-5408. 


Lacrosse briefs 
The Irish lacrosse team defeated Conneticut College 9-6 in a contest held last Friday. The stickman were led by Pay Clynes, who tallied an incredible six goals. 
The Notre Dame lacrosse team tackles Indiana University this Saturday in Bloomington. On Sunday, the stickmen return home to host Michigan State. The contest will be held on Stepan field, beginning at 2 p.m. 

Scrimmage set 
The Irish gridders will hold a scrimmage tomorrow in the Notre Dame Stadium. The scrimmage is slated to start at 12 noon. 
The action will be run under game situations, with the exception that there will be no kickoffs. The scrimmage is open to the student body free of charge. 






