SMC students upsetby vandalism of cars 
· by Jean Powley St. Mary's Editor 

Approximately 20 student cars in St. Mary's McCandless parking lot were vandalized during early morn­ing hours Wednesday. Windows were soaped and radio antennas and side view mirrors were ripped from the vehicles. 
Windows in the dining hall, the new Angela Athletic Facility, Regina Hall, and the convent were also soaped. Trash barrels at the Science Hall were overturned, afnd a sign from the dining hall was thrown through a window in Havi­can Hall. 
St. Mary's security believes that the vandalism. for which they have no suspects, occurred when it did because Halloween had been so rainy that the vandals waited for good weather. 
Sue Allemon. a senior whose car was among the casualties, expressed her anger at finding her windows soaped and her side view mirror dangling from her car door. "I was so mad! I want to know where security was. They claim that they patrol that parking lot every.15 minutes, but it must have taken those vandals at least half and hour to damage that many cars," she said. 

"I called today to find out how much it would cost to repair the damage and was told $35," Alle­mon added.~ 
Doris Mannes, a McCandless junior whose car was also damag­ed, explained that the repairs on her car would not be as extensive. The soaped windows cost nothing and her broken antenna should cost $5 to replace. "I was still furious, though,'' Mannes stated. 
"What do we pay a $25 registra­tion fee for if security isn't going to patrol the parking lot well? They certainly don't spend the money on plowing the lot in the winter,'' one student claimed. "Security is so busy giving tickets to cars parked in the wrong places for two seconds that they don't have time to do what they're supposed to do, guard the cars," she continued. 
Anthony Kovatach, director of St. Mary's Security, said that the parking lot has always been patroled once every 15 minutes. However, since the incident, he said, the patrols have been much more frequent. 




server 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's Friday, November 4, 1977 
duLac revisions evaluated, effects considered 
and regulations will be taken If a student is found guilty, the
by Joan Fremeau send the offender to the Dean of large amounts of money from 
new du Lac outlines penalties
Copy Editor Students. others in the hall -the rector or directly to the Dean of Students. The new du Lac makes stealing, Dean of Students may decide to Offenders have no choice of a body which may be imposed, depend­to hear their cases. ing on the gravity of the offense.
It seems that October break has as well as the use of fireworks, treat the violation as, a University 
These include, expulsion from the
brought a change in attitude on marijuana and alcohol, a hall offense, subject to the University In both manuals, students have 
the right to appeal the first hall or ·transferral off campus,
campus. The first half of the offense. The rules stipulate that disciplinary procedure. This clause semester was fraught with student "rectors are strongly urged to use appears in both the old and new du decision. In the past, students had constructive activity, monetary protest over the proposed changes the hall judicial board and to limit Lacs. Only the procedure has been to show "to the satisfacti<'n of the fine, disciplinary probation, sus­in du Lac and the University's their handling of disciplinary cases changed. Appeals Board that there has been pension or dismissal from the laying off of the groundskeepers. to those which are truly serious or In the past, a student offender Now that these issues have been sensitive or involve pastoral con­could choose to have his case heard "settled" in the past two weeks the cerns not appropriate for a judicial by the Dean of Students, a hearing campus seems quiet. There is board." officer appointed by the Dean, or an abuse ur tscre on or a 
University. .
nothing we can do about them right Hall judicial boards, then, are by the University Judicial Board. substantial new evidence has been Other changes which appear in now. During break the Trustees standardized in the new du Lac and Because the board did not function found which, if proven, would alter the new du Lac concern the rights
adopted the SLC's proposed duLac students are given the option to during the summer, any violation the decision." 
given in disciplinary proceedings. 
changes and just before break the have their cases heard by the rector of University rules taht occurred Both the Jundicial Board and the 
The only major changes in this area
University delayed changing the or by the hall j-board. during that time would have been Appeals Board were composed of 
include the addition of a "hearing
groundskeepers status. However, if the offense is of a taken to the Dean of Students. students, faculty and administra­before the Judicial Review BoardAnd so these issues will be "very serious nature" -for ex­According to the· new du Lac, tors appointed by the Student Life where any members may be chal­forgotten, at least for the time ample, a student is caught stealin~ everv violation of University rules council (SLC) each spring. 
lenged and replaced for good and
being, while we make the most of 
The new manual abolishes both defensible cause. The Board itself 
the last few days of Indian Sum­
boards and removes students from shall rule on all selections after
NEW JUDICIAL PROCESS
mer, worry what Saga will taste 
the disciplinary process. A student hearing arguments from the stu­
like and cram in some work before 
dissatisfied with the Dean of Stu­dent (undergraduate student coun­
I---Appointment Procedure-Judicial Procedure
final exams. Many of you may not even know about the changes in ''Disciplinary 
old j.board new hall pres.
Procedures" which will appear soon in the new du Lacs. Or maybe 
ch'man' / many of you haven't been following 
rector..., ' I the story closely enough to under­
APPROVES""-...._"_-/~ 
new j.board -,stand the changes that have been made. You may even think it ch'man ', ch'man ­

rector--..hall staffer I membersknow about it or not because the 
I

need for disciplinary action at the hall pres.:.•hall councilman
University level occurs so seldom. And so you forget about it; it will doesn't make any difference to 
4 j.board =hall-j.boord 
ing. Students are entitled to "the 

probably never concern you, any­
ORDINARY HALL OFFENSE 
spring semester and after the first ses. The Dean shall provide these 
way. 
But what if you ever did commit a "University offense?" What would happen to you? Would you be aware of your rights and of the procedure you and the University dents' decision may appeal that sel) and from the Dean of Students. decision to a Judicial Review The cahllenged member of the Board. "A student is entitled to a Board may comment but not vote. review hearing of any aspect of the All decisions of the board shall be Dean of Students' decision, inclu­made by majority vote. The right ing the severity of the penalty, the which read in the old manual, 


_L•Iudenb 
hall rector manual now states. The student "access to the names of the and the Dean may call witnesses prospective witnesses and the right 

l d_t 

and present evidence at the hear­to confront them openly at the 
hearing except in extraordinary
'\ 

right to a review hearing for all circumstances as provided in the Student 
disciplinary actions resulting from rules of the University Judicial violations which occur before the Board" now reads, " ... access to end of the last class day of the the names of prospective witnes­
day of class in the fall semester. names to the student and the Appeals of the Dean's decision student shall provide these names during the summer months will be to the Dean of Students. This shall to the President or the Acting be done prior to the hearing. The -...,.,...-..,.pr__,, 
President in his absence."• right to confront them openly at the The Judicial Review Board is 
hearing, except in extraordinary
faculty senate...,..., . 1 """'judicial r~view board
would take? The following out­
NOMINATES ll "a. V" PANEL MEMBER 
composed of five faculty and ad­circumstances when the President
lines, step by step, a hypothetical 
FACULTY MEMBERS ' student government-;"' SELECTED BY STUDENT 
ministrators chosen for each case of the University or the Acting
"University offense" case. It 
from a panel of 12. This panel, six President judges the well-being of
board of commissioners sf~~.:'ER
describes what would have hap­
,Jt· SELECfS 12 DEAN 01! ~TUDENTS 
faculty and six administrators, is the witnesses to be in serious 
---:----:--~;--.-PANEL MEMBERS 3 PANEL MEMBERS 
pened before break, while the old 
selected by the Student Govern­jeopardy."
v-p for student affairs CHOSEN AT RANDOM
du Lac was in effect, and what 
ment Board of Commissioners and The new disciplinary procedure
NOMINATES 12
would happen now, under the 
ADMINISTRATORS t 
approved by the President. is now in effect. When the changes 
dean of students 

new rules: 
A final appeal may be made to are distributed, take a few minutes
A student is caught stealing 
the University President. Both to read and understand them.
t

something in his hall. Under the 
student 

versions of du Lac state, ''the They may seem unimportant to you 
old rules, depending on which hall 
President of the University has the today, but one day you might need 
he lived in, his rector might choose 
right of final decision in discipli­to know them. 
UNIVERSITY OFFENSE or SERIOUS HALL OFFENSE
to handle the case within the hall or 
nary.matters brou~ht before him.'' 

-------------------------------"' 
-~------------------­
--------------------------------------------------------~~ 
On Campus Today_-----.. Debate successes continue 
friday, nov. 4 

3:15pm colloquium, "structural explanation", by prof. ernan mcmullin, sponsored by the phiL dept., all welcome, lib. lounge. 
4:30pm lecture, "oxidation" by prof. jay k. kochi, sponsored by the chem. dept., rm. 123 nieuwland sci. hall, all welcome. 
5:15pm mass and supper, bulla shed. 
7 pm bible study, sponsored by the campus crusade for christ, lib. lounge. 
7:30pm hockey, nd vs. u of michigan, home 
7:30pm quickie -shuttle bus to michigan, $1 round trip. 
6:30pm show, bob hope-joey heatherton, a.c.c., $6, $8, $10 and $12. 
8:30pm concert, nd glee club, sponsored by the music dept., washington hall. 
saturday, nov. 5, 1977 test, national league for nursing test, 317 adm. bldg. dam test, grad. management admissions test, engr. aud. Sam show, northern ind. gun show, a.c.c. concourse 9-5 pm football, nd. vs. ga. tech, home 
1:30 est 

theater, "Ia cantatrice chauve" french play, 2 pm sponsored by nd/smc, o'laughlin aud. 
2 and 4 pm film, "the troian women", sponsored by the collegiate seminar, engr. aud. 
3 pm ~cital, organist, arthur lawrence, united methodist church of mishawaka, all welcome. 
6-10 pm film, "heros behind the enemy line," sponsored by the chinese student assoc., lib. aud. 
7:30pm concert, crosby, stills, and nash, a.c.c., $8.50, & $7. 
7:30pm sea meeting, rehearsal mediveal christmas music, rathskeller. 
8 pm hockey, nd vs. u of michigan, home 
sunday, nov. 6, 1977 

1:30 pm bicycle ride, sponsored by the bicycle club, meet at library circle. 
7 pm meeting, cila christmas card dorm sellers, vol. services office. 
7-9 pm film, "orpheus," sponsored by suac, engr. aud, $1. 
8 pm lecture, "monad's chance and necessity," sponsor­ed by the eng. dept., lib. aud. 
9 pm meeting, ham radio club, grace penthouse. 
, paper recycling, student govt. collection for voL · • ser. , outside room door. 
monday morning 

6:30am this morning, with jeff hebig and lindsay riehl, wsnd 640 am 

Weather 
Partly cloudy and cooler today. High around 60. Fair and cool tonight. Lows in the low 40s. Partly sunny and cool tomorrow. High around 60. 
*The Observer

Speech & Drama 
Night Editor: Bob Brink 
Asst. Night Editor: Katie Ker­win 


seek recognition 
[continued from page 4] layout Staff: Dawn Miller,ment" he said. 
Peter LongoThe department also sponsors a 

Editorial layout:' Rick LaBelle high school theatre workshop. 
Features layout: Drew John Aspects of drama, including 

Bauer , theatre games, mime, acting 
Sports Layout: Paul Steven-, soenes, make-up and directing, are 
son, Craig Chval · presented to high school students Typists: Eileen Lynch, Mark in ten Saturday morning sessions. 

Rust, Mardi Nevin, Tom Po­"This program has been really 
wanda successful so far," Amenta com­
E.M.T.'s: Rich Clarizio, Ka­mented. 

ren Chiames Day Editor: Mary Beth Moran 
Copy Reader: Chris Datzman,
The Observer Is published Mon­

dey through Frldey except during 
Bob Varettoni 

ex.m end vacation periods. The Observer Is published by the students of Notn1 Deme end Selnt Mery•s College. Subscriptions mey be purchesed for $20 per yeer CS 10 per semester) from The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notn1 Deme, lndlent 46556. Second cleu poatege peld, Notn1 Deme, lndlene, 46556. 
The Observer Is e member of the Auocleted Preu. All repro· 
1!1 ,l(cfi",!;i1',~\ ~e ...~~e~td\.;'.JY ..... •.._jr A 

by Tony Pace been defeated by Vanderbilt in the ptrformance." semi-finals, tied Notre Dame for Upcoming on the Debate Council third place. agenda is a regional debate at
The Notre Dame Debate Council Maniance, who is the president Bradley University on the weekendhas continued its recent upsurge by of the Notre Dame Debate Council, of November 18-20 and a nationaltying for third place at the Xavier­received the ninth speaker award. debate at Georgetown University in
Marx debate last weekend in 
Speaker awards are given on the Washington, D.C., over Thanks­Cincinnati. 
basis of the number of points each giving break. 
This is the second time in less debater is given throughout the ''These debates will tell a lotthan -a month that the Council has 
whole debate. about how good we are and wherefared well in a debate of national The Xavier-Marx debate is spon­we should go from here," said
prominence. In fact, this year is 
sored annually by Xavier Univer­Maniace. "If we do well, we may
t)Ie first time in the last 13 years sity and the Marx Foundation. The go out to southern California forthat the Council has participated in 
Marx foundation provides for the some debates over the Christmasnational debates. 
transportation expenses and lod­break." 
Each of the 20 colleges represen­
ging for all the debate's partici-,
tedat the Xavier-Marx debate was 
pants. This foundation was begun
represented by one two-man team. 
by an endowment from the will of Music profAfter some preliminary competi­
the late Robert S. Marx, a Cincin­
tion, the Notre Dame team of nati judge and lawyer. to hold recital
senior Jim Maniance and sopho­
This is a nationally prestigious
more Jim Jones was seeded third. Arthur Lawrence, associate pro­
debate, and the Notre Dame team
During the course of the competi­fessor of music at St. Mary's, will
of Manlance and Jones is pleased
tion, they advanced to the semi­appear in a faculty organ recital on
to be performing at a national level 
finals where they were eventually Sunday afternoon at 3 p.m. the
once again. In Maniace's words,
defeated by a team from John recistal, sponsored by the St.
"This is a much more selective
Hopkins University. Mary's Music Department, is open 
debate than some ofthose we have 
to the public without charge, andOverall, Vanderbilt defeated participated in. We are competing will take place in the sanctuary ofJohn Hopkins to capture the debate again the cream of the crop. 
the First United Methodist Church title. Florida Tech, which had Naturally, we are pleased by our 
of Mishawaka. The church is locatedat201EastThirdStreetand


French theater Company 
contains a large 3-manual Austin 
pipeorgan.to Perform Sunday at SMC Lawrence spent the 1975-76 
--academic year in Paris on sabbati-
To honor the twentieth anniver-purchased through the University cal leave. His Sunday program will sary ofthe longest running produc-of Notre Dame in room 304 of consist of J.S. Bach's "Prelude and tion in the history of the theatre in O'Shaughnessy Hall or by calling Fugue in E-Fiat Major", some-Paris, Le Treteau de Paris/Jean de 283-7195. times called the "St. Anne"; 
Rigault has brought to this country Betterway seeks "Suite on the Second Tone" by
the company of the Theatre de Ia L.N·. Clerambault, a composer of Huchette with La Cantatrlce VOlUnteerS the French classic period; and the 
Chauve [The Bald Soprano] by "First Symphony" of Louis Vierne. Eugene Ionesco, directed by Nico-Betterway, Inc. is presently Although the last movement f las Bataille. Le Treateau de Paris searching for volunteers for their Vierne's symphony is well-known, has been presenting modern and rehabilitation program for juvenile the complete work is seldom per-classical French plays throughout delinquents. This program is formed outside of France. · the United States and Canada for especially recommended for pre-Lawrence earned degrees from the past 19 years, and will appear law and education students, or Davidson, Florida State, Michigan on Sunday, November 6, at 2 students interested in social work. and Stanford, where he earned his pm. in O'Laughlin Auditorium. Tom Peters, director of Better-doctorate in performance practice As a double biil, La Cantatrlce way, will be n the Library con-and was also Acting University Chauve will be presented along course today to answer any ques-Organist. He later taught at the with Lafrlmaquoi? Larlmarienl, a tions as well as to recruit volun-Centre College of Kentucky and at 
series of sketches, songs and teers. Notre Dame. y;~~ ~: t~:cs~:! c~:;=~y. per-:;~;:::::;:;:;:;:;:::::::::::;:;:;:;:;:::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::::::::;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:::~::;:;:::;:::::;:;:;:;:;:::::;:;:;:;:;:;:~ 
th:i~~~~~!at~:~;· :nh; ~!~~~~er~t~ !!!! PH0 T 0 G RAPHER S !l!l 
original production in 1950, heads ···· D .·.· ~~=a~~~t. as Mr. Martin, the role he ill~ 0 you shoot ~ill Le Treteau de · Paris/Jean de :::: :::: Rigault is a production company :l~l 35 mm slides? \\\\ 
devoted to promoting French cui-:;:; ~;~; ture in North America. To date Le :::: At Slidecraft we specialize in processing Kodak's ·· Treteau has presented well over :::; New Ektachrome (E-6) film. :;:; 1,500 campus performances of 32 ~:~; Normal.. 2.4 hour service.. @plays in the original language, all ;:;; 'f' ;.;. officially sponsored and supported ;:;; t by L' Association Francaise ;:;: Come· in and sign up for a Student Dlscoun~ Card. ·:·: D' Action Artistique of the French ;:;; :;:; 
Paris/Jean =~ :~::
••........
Rigault is being presented here by Fo[~ig~r~~~i~~~ de 1m~;~; .....:~.=:=~ 
the Saint Mary's College and :;:; 
University of Notre Dame depart-!;!; 
ments of modern aftd cl~.~sieal jl. '.}X: ; ':}.~4 ~ ~-~~/~l 
languages. _ :;:; _ . • · !'!-····\/i:j; 
$3:~k~~~ :::er~le aa::i~~~=d a:J \~~~ Slidecraft laboratorieS Inc.. I 
$2.00 for students by calhng the ;:;: :;:; Saint Mary's ticket office at:~;~ 305 W. JEFFERSON BLVD. • SOUTH BEND, IN 46601 ·.·. 284-4176, Monday through Friday :;:; f 
Z:: ~:~~ amr~~~n :a~ 1~\~o p~~ l::;:;:;:;:;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:::::::::;:;:;:;:;:::::::l~:~:~:~:~:~;:;:;:;:;:;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:~;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::i;: 
~ 

An Evening with Someone ~pecial 

Nov. 8 7:30pm O'Laughlin Aud. s1 adm.
Remember Sounder? 
~­L""l~~.. :) ~ ,:~~T 
.b,?.f'..~ •..VJ 


,___-----------------:---------~~~ ··~-·­
Friday, November 4,\1977 
the observer 





AAUP committee purposes,duties discussed 
by Rosemary Mills Senior Staff Reporter 

Professor Nicholas F. Fiore re­cently assumed the chairmanship of the Committee on Academic Freedom and Tenure for the local chapter of the American Associa­tion of University Professors. Thomas L. Shaffer, professor of law and the new president of the ND chapter, asked Fiore to serve in this capacity. 
The comittee is comprised of six faculty members who volunteered their time at Fiore's suggestion. Salvatore Bella, professor of Man­agement, represents the Business school. Thomas Fern, associate professor of art, is from the college of arts an letters. Professor Biology, Morton Fuchs, speaks for the Science faculty while Lawrence Lee, professor of Aerospace and Mechanical Engineering, is from the school of Engineering. The Law school faculty is represented by Edward Murphy, and Maureen Gleason represents the Library faculty. 
According to Fiore, there were certain standards for the committee members to meet. "I know all these people to be experienced scholars. They are all respected by their colleagues on the faculty and members of the administration. I know all of them to have great interest in the students' welfare, and to be fair and compassionate people. All of them have reputa­tions beyond Notre Dame, and have feeling for what goes on in other universities. 
The chief purpose of the commit­tee is to assist faculty members who feel their academic freedom has been violated. "Every year," Fiore stated, "we have usually a small number of cases in which someone on one of the four regular faculties feels their academic free­dom has been violated; or that tenure is not given appropriately; or they aren't being treated fairly by either fellow faculty, the chair­man of the department, the dean, or the administration." In such cases, Fiore explained, the individ­ual can complain to the committee and they will confidentially investi­gate the case. 
"If we feel a gross injustice has been done," Fiore said, "we will advise and assist the individual in receiving legal assistance from the national AAUP. Fiore added that the committee may also ftnd the complaint has no grounds. 
Other duties of the committee uiclude working as a middle man between the national AAUP and the ND administration in matters of academic freedom and tenure, and carrying out the requests of the executive committee of the local AAUP chapter. Fiore cited the organization of a conference as an example of an executive request. 
The academic freedom of a 
professor can be violated when his 
wish to pursue scholarly activities 
is refused, or if the University 
forbids him to publish a soundly 
researched and written article on a 
controversial subject. According to 
Fiore, however, ND does not 
impose strict ~uidelines on the 
Moot court team to compete 
The Notre Dame Law School will 
fteld two teams in the Chicago 
Regional Competition of the Na­
tional Moot Court Competition. 
The teams will join 26 other 
Midwestern law schools tonight in 
the Richard J. Daley Center. They 
will argue a labor law case involv­
ing the associates of a law ftrm 
unionizing. 
The Notre Dame teams were 
selected by a year-long competition 
and are composed of Irma Herrera, 
Ted Maloney and Jim Rowan, 
counsel for the petitioner and 
Susan Herdina, Tim Loats and Dick 
Schlosser, counsel for the respon­
dent. The faculty advisors for the 
teams are Assistant Dean Fernand 
Dutile and Professor Bernard 
Dobranski. 
, 
1~~, 

Prof. Nicholas Fiore, who recently assumed the chairmanship of the Committee on Academic Freedom and Tenure commented that their chief aim was to assist any faculty member who believes their acade~ic freedom has been violated. [Photo by Doub Christian]. 


the professor's service to the community as well as to the University, and of his stature in his fteld. 
The department's committee, which the department chairman heads, gives its evaluation, along with the Chairman's added recom­mendation, to the dean for review. The dean seeks advice and submits his recommendation to the provost. 
After consultation, the provost turns his recommendation over to the president. 
If the department recommenda­tions are refused, the reasons are conveyed to the committee by the dean. The faculty member can ask to know these reasons. The Committee on Academic Freedom and Tenure may be requested to review the case by the individual if he feels tenure has beeen unjustly refused. 
Fiore sees the AAUP as part of a system of checks and balances. · "I think it's great that there is an AAUP. The fathers installed a system of checks and balances in the government so that one part couldn't get too strong." 
Fiore compares this to the Uni­versity: "If any one component begins to dominate the others, then the whole suffers. There would be just as much injustice if the faculty dominated. The Administration should know where they are going; the students have to be in a position to speak out and be listened to; and the AAUP and Faculty Senate have to be strong. None of the components is right all the time." 



---~~~~--~---·~ 
.... 

the observer Fridav. November 4. 1977
4 

O'Brien comments on Dancin' Irish controversy 
by Mike Kenahan 

"I got caught in the middle because I was trying to help out," responded Robert O'Brien, director of University bands, to the Dancin' Irish controversy. Statements made in the Oct. 19 issue of the Observer by Dancin' Irish co­captains Valerie Stefani and Sandy Stohrcr have recently received several reactions around the cam­pus. 
O'Brien directed most of his comments towards the issue of whether, in 1975, when the Dancin' Irish were formed, th~:re was or was not an agreement made in writing that the Dancin' Irish would not ask to perform at home football games. 
O'Brien said he recently verified the agreement with Bro. Benesh, director of Student Activities, and with Astrid Hotvedt, coordinator of women's athletics and Dancin' Irish advisor. "It was stipulated at that time that they wouldn't appear at football games. It was basket­ball only and they were content with that," O'Brien said. 
In the Oct. 19 article, Stefani was quoted as saying, "Mr. O'Brien claims he has a letter from Astrid Hotvedt saying that we would never ask for football. Now Astrid has no copy of this letter, and Mr. O'Brien has yet to produce this letter for us." 
O'Brien responded to this by affirming, ''I'm sure I have one, but letter or no letter Miss Hotvedt in 1977 said that that was the agreement; she verified the origi­

& pure sugar cinnamon glaze 
U.S. 31 (Dixieway North) in Roseland across from Holiday Inn
******************** 


FOREIGN 
CAR PARTS CO.
REGIONAl OISTRIBIJTOR 

before the snow flies give your car its tune-up now !! make sure it starts this winter! 
Parts and Accessories for ALL Makes of Foreign Cars 
215 Dixie Way N. 
in Roseland-U.S. 31 N. -Ylblock N. from Pendle St. 
SOUTH BEND , IND. 46637 

CALL: 219 272-7187 
OPEN tl:a.m.-6:00 p.m. MONDAY THRU SATURDAY 

$$ $$ 
SPARK PLUGS ONLY 96~ EACH WITH THIS AD (reg $1.25) 
nal agreement." 
Hotvedt agreed that, "If Mr. 
O'Brien said there was a hard and 
fast agreement then there was. I'm 
not going to contradict anything 
Mr. O'Brien says." 
In reflecting upon the notion of 
the Dancin' Irish performing at 
football games in the first place 
O'Brien admitted that, 'there's just 
no time for them. They said 
something about between quarters 
but there's just no way. There's 
not a minute-and-a-half, there's 
only a minute." 
He added, "I don't dislike them. 
I'm not against them or anything 
like that. There are all timing 
problems. We don't have much 
time for other things." 
Dave Bender, student body pres­ident, also wanted some clarifica­tions to be made known. 
Bender denied statements made by Stohrer in the Oc:t. 19 article that he was "totally against" the Dan­cin' Irish performing at football games and would not back them. Stohrer· was quoted as saying, "He wouldn't go for it so he said he couldn't help us." 
Bender said that, "I've never 
been approached by anybody from 
the Dancin' Irish. John Ryan 
mentioned that they approached 
him, but they have never spoken to 
me directly." 
Ryan's services were enlisted by the Dancin' Irish co-captains. He stated that, "my purpose was solely to find out what the position of each side was. As far as the whole thing is concerned I'm neutral. Ryan is Administrative Assistant to the Student Govern­ment. 
Bender admitted, however, that when Ryan approached him on the matter he said, "We just don't have the time. It's kind of a question of priority. Quite frankly it doesn't rate as high as a lot of other things." 
Bender added that he spoke to O'Brien and Benesh about the Dancin' Irish situation but stated, "I have to abide by Bro. Benesh's decision." He observed, "It's kind of a political thing. You really have to be careful because you don't want to damage relations with people over something that al­though it might be important to about 25 people, it's really not important to the students as a whole. It's just a judgement call." 
Meanwhile, Stefani said she plans to see Bro. Just Paczesny, director of Student Affairs, soon. Stefani said that when she does meet with Just, "all I would be after is what procedure to go through to become an official University representative." 
Stefani stated, ''I understand Bro. Benesh's viewpoint that if you let one club down on the field how can you say no to another one. What we would like to do is become an official University representa­tive, then there would be no problem with performing on the field." 
Stefani said, however, that "if Astrid tells us no, then we're not going to go in because after all she is our sponsor. But if she would consent to come with us I think It would be better. I think it would show that we were really serious about this." 
The Dancin' Irish co-captain also mentioned that the 16 dancers are starting practice this Sunday even­ing for the coming basketball season. 




Speech &Drama seek recognition 
by Ann Gales Senior StaH Reporter 

The ND-SMC cooperative de­partment of Speech and Drama, in order to ''gain recogintion on the campuses and in the South Bend community," has planned a num­ber of programs for this year other than their four major productions, according to Mark Amenta, a junior Speech and Drama major. 
Amenta, who is in charge of publicity and promotion for the speech and drama department, commented, ··we have had a lot of trouble trying to get recognized at this University. not only by the students. but also by the admini­stration. 
Amenta pointed out that earlier this year the Memorial Library allocated an amount of money for books to every University depart­ment except the Speech and Drama department. "We asked them to buy plays for us, but they told us they wanted to purchase 
more  educational  material,"  he  
said.  
The  programs planned  by  the  

department in an attempt to gain exposure and achieve recognition by students. administration and community fall into three major categories, Amenta said. 
First, the department is sponsor­ing a "faculty showcase", a pro­gram which will feature ND-SMC speech and drama teachers. "This is something new this year," Amenta commented. "We hope to start a tradition of having some of our faculty members perform once a semester," he added. 
The first "faculty showcase" will be presented Nov. 13 at 8 p.m. in Washington Hall. The program features two one-act plays per­formed by Julie Jensen, acting teacher, and Diana Hawfield, cos­tumer for the department, as well as an original dance presented by Mim Sparks Field, a ballet instruc­tor and part-time teacher in the department. 
A reception will be held after the performance "to give students an opportunity to talk with members of the department" Amenta said. 
The second category of programs includes the "directing finals" and the "second scene productions" of the department. Amenta explained that each of the ten students currently enrolled in Directing I is required to direct and present a one-act play as a final project. 
"Although we cannot advertise the directing tinals, since we don't pay royalties for the plays, we do invite people to come and sit in on the presentat:r.ns which. will be held inWashingtonHall on Dec. 13 and 14." Amenta stated. 
Open auditions for the directing finals will be held Sunday at 7 p.m. in Washington Hall. "A lot of 


FRANKS PLACE Restaurant & Lounge 327 W. Marion St. South Bend , Ind. Phone 232-2277 See Our Package Liquor Store 

Serving lunch, etc. 11 am t0 2 pm 
people like to get connected with shows but don't because they think they don't have enough time or tht they won't make it," Amenta said. He added that these plays will offer an opportunity for interested stu­dents to gain exposure and exper­ience in the department. 
The "second scene productions" include full length plays, readers theatre presentations and the di­recting finals of the Directing II class. In the past, these produc­tions have ranged from a Broadway revue to Eugene O'Neill's "Beyond the Horizon." 
Amenta said that the second scene productions are held in Washington Hall at various times throughout the year. The presenta­tions are open to the public and free of charge. 
The final category of speech and drama sponsored programs in­volves work in the South Bend community. "Community work is very good for us." Amenta com­mented, "because it exposes us to the public as well as providing us with valuable experience." 
The department does creative drama work with Headstart at the 18 different Headstart centers lo­cated in the St. Joseph valley. Students from the department dress up as clowns and present shows for the children. 
"In recent years we have intro­duced a participatory program in which we try to get the kids involved in. what we are doing," Amenta said. "For example, we do mime exercises like tossing a ball into the audience and asking them to pretend to hit it back. They really respond to things like that." 
The department also works with retarded children from the North­ern Indiana State Hospital. Ac­
cording to Amenta, "This is the 
toughest thing the department does. To get one smile, one look of 
interest is a great accomplish­

~~=::::::5::~00~t~o~1~2~:~00~s~ix:=d:a~.:s:a::w:e:e~k:::::~:::::::::!:::!.__..:__~[c~o~n~tinued on page 2] 
NEWLY RELEASED: 
1HE Slll\fARilllON BY J. R R TOlKFlN 1HE SllMARIIllON 1978 CAIIMlAR 
1HE HOBBIT 1978 DIN( CAIIMlAR 1HE 1978 J. R R ~CAIIMlAR 
--,----......,-------~-------~...-­
Friday, November 4, 1977 the observer 




No major changes forseen 


Saga transition progressing well, rep says 
by Mark Rust 

The switch of dining hall opera­tions between Notre Dame Food Services and the Saga Corporation is going along smoothly with a reinstatement of all employees, wages and committements and a contemplation of food improve­ments for the future, according to Bob Robinson, Saga account repre­sentative. 
The November 1st takeover by Saga. negotiated since 1972, found Robinson moving from Grand Rapids to Notre Dame to take over the position of Senior Food Service Director. According to Robinson, all committments made by the former food service to employees and campus organizations, such as the Hunger Coalition, will remain intact. 
"Communication is critical in our work -with employees, with stu­dents, with all our customers. That is the key, and we're working on it right now," said Robinson in his office. Outside, Saga representa­tives ushered employees in and out of interviews to answer their ques­tions and give assurances that Food Service committments would be upheld. 
Robinson said that technically the former Food Service employees are now employees of Saga. No changes will be made in status or wages except those already pro­mised by Notre Dame Food Ser­vice. He also emphasized that the differences are practically non­existent between the food services, in the food and its preparation. 
"For instance, I see that some have picked up on rumors about our food being packaged and sent in from Kalamazoo," he said. "Those rumors are nonsense. Kalamazoo is where our 'head­shed' is -executives, computers, stuff like that. All the food will be prepared right here in the dining halls, just like it always has been." 
Although Saga also owns the St. Mary's food service, the two offices operate separately. No change is in 
· the works for the Co-ex program between the dining halls of the two schools, and on the subject of "special meals" Robinson reports that it is a practice his office will probably continue. "As a matter of fact, the first time I was aware of it was when I walked in on the one Monday night. Wasn't it great?" exclaimed Notre Dame's new head food man. 
"Before we start," he said, "making any kind of changes, we want to find out more about Notre Dame, because, hey, I'm going to live here. We want to fit in. We learned some in the last few days and we'll be learning a lot more. We realize that Notre Dame is a school full of traditions and we want to become a part of it. For instance, just today I found out about the hamburgers and cheese­burgers on football weekends. Now if we changed that before we knew about the tradition, we'd be in big trouble with our customers." 
"There won't be any big changes at first; everything is runnin~ just like before," Robinson continued. "When it comes to changes, Saga's direction is always to find out what the student's want through contact with the student government and talking with students in the dining halls. My management staff will be in contact with both. 

"Student suggestions are usu­al)y very food oriented--you know, serve more of this or that. We'll be sensitive to that. If there are needs or perceptions from students that consistently come up, I'm not going to sit back and say 'well, it's not April 3rd so we can't change,' or something like that. We will be very ;responsive,'' he added. 
Of his new account and new home, Robinson was enthusiastic. "I love it here. I haven't met a person yet who hasn't asked how they can help me. Just great." 
US imposes arms embargo 
WASHINGTON [API-The United States is prohibiting the export of military and police equipment to South. Africa and will recall two 
U.S. Embassy attaches in a further show of U.S. opposition to Pretor­ia's crackdown on dissent. 
The announcementWednesdayby Secreatry of State Cyrus R. Vance r<rpresents a tightening of arms embargo the United States has observed since 1963 and an esca­lation of Carter administration efforts to disassociate itself from the white-supremist regime. Vance told a news conference the arms ban will be extended to cover so-called "gray-area" items, which have both military and civilian uses. The ban also will encompass the export of spare parts for equipment sold to South Africa in the past. 
He said the actions "reflect our national concern" over South Af­rica's decision two weeks ago to ban 18 civil rights groups, to shut down the major black newspaper and arrest scores of dissident leaders both black and white. 
"We continue to hope that South Africa will make progress and reverse the recent actions it has taken," Vance said. 
He announced the recall of the 
U.S. naval attache from Pretoria and the commercial attache from 
Fellow names due tonight 
Senior Class Fellow Nominations are going well, according to Com­mittee Chairman Elizabeth Naquin. 
"We have had over 60 turned in," she said. "The committee is very pleased with the response and hopes to receive many more replies before nominations close at 6:30 this evening." 
Although she declined to identify any of the nominees, Naquin did say that all of them will be given equal consideration. Each nominee will be evaluated by the Senior Class Fellow Committee on the basis of the following criteria: 
1. 
The individual must be accomplished in his or her field. 

2. 
The individual's lifestyle and accomplishments should embody the spirit of the Notre Dame Class of 1978. 

3. 
Personal qualities which will be highly regarded are integri­ty, leadership, and creativity. Enthusiasm and personality will also be considered. 

4. 
The individual who is finally chosen must be able to spend at least one day on campus as a guest of the Senior Class. 


Nominees who best fulftll these requirements will be eligible for a final election to be held later in the , month. 

Glee Club to h concert tonight 
The Glee Club will hold its fall formal concert tonight at 8:30 in Washington Hall. David Isele will Johannesburg. The latter move is being made in connection with an administration review of U.S. eco­nomic relations with South Africa, Vance said. 
On Monday, the United States joined Britain and France in the United Nations Security Council to veto _proposals by Black African nations for sweeping economic sanctions against South Africa. Vance said the U.S. veto was based on the belief that there is no consensus for such action in the Security Council. 
But the recall of the commercial 
attache suggests that the admini­
stration may be considering some 
form of unilateral economic retali­
ation against the regime of Prime 
Minister John Vorster. 
The tightened arms embargo will 
have minimal practical effect on SouthAfrica. For the past 14 years, the export of items . for use in combat of training by South African military, paramilitary or police forces has been banned. 
Vance's announcement will af­
fect such "gray area" items as civil 
aircraft, computers, radar and 
communications equipment. 
Officials said spare parts for C-130 transport planes, which are not covered by the 1963 embargo, also will come under the new restrictions. 
On the Middle East, Vance brushed aside an accustion bv Senate Republican leader Howard H. Baker, who said the admini­stration is placing "Russian rou­lette" by inviting the Soviet Union to Play a more active role in the Middle East negotiating process. 
He said the more permanent role for the Soviets was ''a constructive step which has helped us move toward the convening of a Geneva peace conference. 
Nazz to reopen 

tomorrow night 
The Nazz will reopen tomorrow night in the basement of LaFortune with John Salveson as the featured entertainer. 
The Nazz is always looking for new and different talent and invites interested performers to call John Flaherty (1575). New and special events are being scheduled for the rest of the semester including a special Christmas night. Anyone interested in participating should call Enrique Lulli (1479). 

Cheech & Chong to perform 
The comedy team of Cheech and Chong will appear in Stepan Center on Saturday, Dec. 3 at 8 p.m. The concert is being sponsored by the Student Union Social Commission. 
Tickets will be $3.75 and will be · sold through the Student Union ticket office starting Nov. 14. 

OPEN: MON-THURS 9AM-11PM FRI-SAT 9AM-12PM SUN 12NOON-12PM 

PKG. LIQUOR, WINES, BEER & SNACKS BEER SPECIAL EACH WEEK-END 
NORTH OF STATE LINE ON • 31 




ambrosia 
One of Doc Pierce's most delectable dishes. A fresh. tender 1 0-oz. chicken breast with the exotic flavor of our special Polynesian marinade. This tempting entree is served on a warm bed of wild rice. and garnished with pineapple Ambrosia is 
complemented. of course. by your choice of potato. salad. and hot bread with butter. 
Tuesday /Wednesday 
$3.95 
.a~ 
.-zer.~ 

3gttNm 
120 N. Main St. Mishawaka 255-7737 
d~r:~ ~nd !~~-~~~l~.c-~s-inv2~~ _ . ~iiiiii==iiiiii.iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiil 
SUNDAY MASSES (Main Church) an
=:; 

5:15 Saturday Vigil :Rev. Robert Griffin . c.s.c. 
9:30 sunday Rev. John Fitzgerald, C.S.C. 10:4s ,Rev. Claude A . Pomerleau, C.S.C. 
12:15 ~ev. William Toohey, C.S.C. , 7:15 Vespers ·Rev. Claude A. Pomerle 
FRENUI 1HEA1ER 
Fug?ne lomro, la Cant-arh? Or!JM!' and .lcn]ues Pretat, LarirrrJqtd? lorirrorien!' 
PRESENTED BY ' (skelriEs) 
le Tretmu ck Rm and le 1h«<tre ck b llix:h?de in Itois 
SUNDAY NOVEMBER 6, 1977 2pm. OLAUGHLIN AUDllORIUM, ST. MARYS CDLLEGE 
Student lickets for $2.00 are available in the Department of Modem and Classical Languages, 304 O'Shaugnessy Hall. (General admission $3.00) 

with Special Guest Star ERIC CARMEN 
also appearing 
NETWORK SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 8:00P.M. NOTRE DAME A.C.C • 
All Seats Reserved: $7.00 and $6.00 . Tickets on sale at: 
• 
Notre Dome A.C.C. Box otlice • St. Jqseph Bank & Branches • hrst Bank -Mom office only Sot. 9 to 5 • River City Records. • Suspended Cor~ in Elkhart 

• 
Student Union Ticket Oflico • Boogie Records • Elk~art Trut!o 

• 
Robortson's·S.B. & Concord Mall • Just lor tho Record • Record Joint -Niles 


•~w. • \. ... 

'#.,;, .........:".~ .... i'"'oV"';,-,'\•,V;y I ri" ~ tl"'oToY1Y, o'>.lll I"'UoT .r~lf'Tro'f ,y_..,..-,.,. o'W".o.Yo_l.,.>'roFo\-' T•_,,.,,lT, o c ,._-•..-.....,... : ... ' .. ,t" Jr'" #I 
.---------------------~~----~-­

opinion 


Eight Who Did Not Give Up 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~ dave bender 
The judicial procedure contro-student leaders were called in to a versy is now ended with the meeting with some trustees and acceptance of the new duLac certain members of the administra­revisions by the board of trustees a tion. At this time we were all little over a week ago. The whole informed of the University Judicial affair was an extremely intense one Proposal, which to all of us seemed with both sides in the end manifest-incredibly unfair and !Jnj!Jst . ing much faith and trust in each Moreover, to be told directly that other and a sincere desire to do certain portions of the proposal what is right for all concerned at were "non-negotiable" was almost Notre Dame. Of course we did not too much for all of us to handle. achieve all that we wanted, but for When students attend a school the most part the standardization of where it is constantly stated that the hall J-Boards, the clause they are members of "the greatest requiring the rectors to use them, student body in the world", and the automatic right to an appeal that Notre Dame students are and a complete hearing by an among the most intelligent, socially impartial board, as well as the mature, and morally conscious of dropping of the use of marijuanna, any students in the nation; then alcohol, and fireworks to hall subsequently these same students offenses, represent a step in the are informed that their opinions right direction. really don't matter in certain areas 
With this in mind, therefore, I and there will not be any discus-would like to take this opportunity sion, it becomes a very bitter pill to to publicly thank all of those swallow. Indeed, our morale was individuals that helped these . extremely low. All of us felt that much-needed reforms go through. we were faced with an almost It would be impossible, of course, impossible situation right off the to list all those by name in the bat at the start of a year that only HPC, the Hall J-Board Chairmen, that summer had seemed to be so the Alumni Board, the SLC, etc. promising and hopeful. For me to that assisted us in this regard. keep going under these circum-There are, however, at least eight stances was much easier than for students who deserve public recog-these eight students. I was elected nition and a word of thanks from to my position and any success that me and the entire University we enjoyed would fall on me; any community. failure would be attributed to the 
B k 

· A t f age-old excuse of "ineffective or 
__a_c__t_n__u_g_u_s--a--g-ro_u_p_o______________________________ was sent to University President 
powerless student government". 
These eight students had nothing to gain by not giving up and everything to lose. Their names rarely make the paper and yet they chose to serve the students and the University and not become apathetic. In one week alone they spent over twenty hours in four days to draft our own judicial revision proposal, which for the most part is what was approved by the trustees. Despite the criticisms leveled at them .bY some of their fellow students and the predictions of many that what they were doing was impossible, they stuck with me to achieve a goal that for most of the time seemed unrealistic and unachievable. 
When Fr. Sorin saw his life's work burn to the ground (all except Sacred Heart Church was destroyed) he commented, "If all were gone I would not give up". In the spirit of Fr. Sorin and the University of Notre Dame, Tom Soma, Joe Gill, Tom Bryne, Steve Dane, John Talbot, Patty Dondan­ville, Mary Ellen Woods and Rick Pinkowski did not give up either. With little hope of recognition or public glory, they decided to give their all to the student body that justice might be done. I thank them for their trememdous gift of themselves, and I ask you to join 
me in thanking· them as well. 



r *The Observer 
.m independt>nt student newspdpl'r St'rving notre ddmt' .Jnd st. m.Jry'., 
The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Damp and St. Mary's College It doE's not necessarily refiE>ct the policies of e1ther institution ThP news is reported as accurately and as ob)E'Ctively as possible. Editorials represent the opin1on of a maJority of the Editorial Board Commentaries. opmions and lettt:>r~ are the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and letters are enc-ouraged to promote the free expression of varying opinions on campus. 
EDITORIAL BOARD 
Marti Hogan Editor-in-Chief Martha Fanning Managing Editor Hob Brink Asst. Managing Ed Kathy Mills Executive Editor Maureen Flynn Editorial Editor Barb HreitPnstein Exec News Editor ]t:>an PowiPV St Mary's Editor Katie Kerwin News Editor Barb Langhenry News Editor Paul Stevemon Sports Editor Pat CoiP Special Projects Ed David 0'KE>efe Features Editor 
Friday, November 4, 1977 

P.O. BOX Q 
Subway alumnus discouraged 
Editor's Note: The following letter 


an open letter to Fr. Hesburgh 
Editor's Note Members of the Groundskeepers rights coalition on Nov. 1 made a presentation to Catholic Committee on Urban Ministry [CCUM] Con­ference. An open letter to Father Hesburgh was signed by CCUM Conference participants. The letter contained 136 sig­natures. It was delivered yesterday to the office of Father Hesburgh. 
Your work as Chairman of the United States Commission on Civil Rights inspired many of us to both support the enactment of national policy protecting the rights of all Americans, and to work for the implementation of that policy when a hostile Administration began to 1\Jack off that policy and when the Congress openly advocated an exemption for themselves from that !Policy. 
Your career as a University President has for a quarter of a century been distinguished by con­stant commitment to the transmis­jsion of human values in the !educational process. When other educators have succumbed to run­nign "value neutral" trade schools you have insisted that higher education must include the notion that some things are good and some things are bad and that some are better than others. 
Your recent decision to hire a law firm, with a national reputation for union busting, to represent the University of Notre Dame in its dispute with the groundskeepers seeking to form a union strike us as a failure to apply the spirit both of the law of the land, and the teachings of the Church and the institution that you lead. 
The University's use of typical management tactics to defeat uni­ons (through urging that a group of 21 be swallowed up by a group 20 times that size, promising wage and benefit increases when a union looms on the horizon, and subcon­tracting out a whole unit which threatens to unionize) appears to us to be a statement that the employ­ees of the University need not be consulted in major decisions which affect them directly. 

We appreciate your need to manage a great University within the limits of available resources. But we doubt that the University of Notre Dame can remain a great Catholic institution if it compro­mises its commitments to the values which we have come to identify as the Spirit of Notre Dame. 
We strongly urge you, therefore, to instruct your attorneys to honor the public commitment you made on October 14 to the faculty and student body that a representation election for the 21 groundskeepers be held without undue delay. And we trust that you will exert your leadership to affirm without am­biguity a renewed commitment by the University to recognize and respect the rights of all its employ­ees to organize and join a union for purposes of collective bargaining. 
136 CCUM Participants Fr. Theodore M. Hesburgh. The Observer prints It with his permis­sion. 
Dear Father Hesburgh: 
As I watched Saturday's Notre Dame-USC upset victory, I was amazed at the behavior of the Notre Dame student body. 
Let me say first of all that as a senior inhigh school some five years ago, I remember wanting nothing more than to attend the University of Notre Dame. the spirit, discipline, and academic excellence that Notre Dame had long been known for were themain reasonswhy I, as an Irishman who had never attended anything but Catholic schools, wanted so badly tospendfour years in South Bend. 
Money and lack of outstanding academic credentials prevented me from realizing my dream-I went to a state institution instead, but my allegiance for ND never waned. I've cheered them on through the thrill of all their victories-whether on the gridiron or the basketball court-and suffered with them through each and every one of their defeats. 
Why? Because aside from being a dominant football power for· years andyears,Notre Dame always stood for class! Only at Nore Dame do the athletes attend class and work for the same grades as do other students. Only at Notre Dame do athletes find themselves subject to unbending disciplinary procedures­disciplinary procedures which are probably even more rigid for ath­letes, who represent the University both on and off the field and court. 

The point is (as even Notre Dame detractors would agree) Notre Dame has never been just another University. You either hate it or you love it. As one of those who loves it, I was disappointed (but not discouraged) to see students pour­ing out on the field before Satur­day's game had ended. I was shocked to see these animals tearing down the goalposts! the field was littered with toilet paper and · other debris. What has happened?! This isn't the Notre Dame I've admired so much in the past! I've seen this type of activity at all other universities-but never at the University of Notre Dame. Thus, one of the greatest Notre Dame victories of all time is greeted by me with strong mixed emotions. I say I'm not dis­couraged because I feel you can do something about this. Please Father, don't let this happen again. 
Michael Walsh Mt. Prospect, lli. 
Thank you, 


St. Mary's 

Molarity by Michael Molinelli 

Dear Editor: 

This letter is to thank the many people in the St. Mary's commun­ity who helped the Logan Center children to have an extra special Halloween. 
For those who waited with candy, (and we're sorry we ­couldn't get to all of you) you created a warm and friendly atmo­sphere in the dorms. 
To those of you who went trick or treating, your patience and enthu­siasm enabled over SO children to have a fun-filled Halloween which otherwise might not have been possible. We know it wasn't easy for some ofyou, but you did a great job! 
A very special thanks to all of you for showing that St. Mary's is a caring community. 
Sue McKinney Donna Noonan 

. --~ -~------~-------~--.----­
ND-USC: To Know Is To ••• 
Poor ignorant foot-in-the-mouth Fitz-­have known nothing about all of this until 
trodden down and laid to rest. Dan 
how could he have known about what was long after that Saturday score had come 
Devine, Joe Montana and the rest of the
then happening in South Bend, about what down upon his head, until it was too late to 
Fighting Irish finished the job off by


Bryan Gruley 
would happen in South Bend that very take back his words ... 
destroying USC and resurrecting ND's
Saturday? SPOKE TOO SOON--how could he have 
hopes for a National Championship. 
How could he have known about the known about what would be the greatest 
It was the Thursday before the Notre Dame-Southern Cal game, and I was in Michigan for a friend's funeral. There I happened to run into an old high school classmate who now attends the University of Michigan. Good ol' Fitz. Fitz the omnipresent wisecracker. Fitz the inge­nious one-line rag artist who loves nothing more than torelentlesslyinsult anything you might hold as sacred, dear or important to your pre~nt life situation--your family, your friends, your job, your college. Good ol' smartalec Fitz who gets his hate up for Notre Dame whenever I'm around and ~vailable for a little target practice. Good ol' Fitz--standing and laughing in my face, telling. me thaUID "really looked Impres­sive against Mississippi." 
"Yeah, Pitz," I defended, "you go ahead andfaugh now. Laugh right up ~,tntil th~.;, ~ose Bowl when, Ricky Leach and.:},be bo'y~ pull their annual choke." . ' i ·'· i,. Fftz laughed harder:'"NoWAY, ~n! Not this year. All the waythis year! Notre Dame ... S~ember-·· 
· and · against.: · ""·'""'"'"' 
burgh. . Pt#ty 
shoddy." · ·. "So ~w,that· .. ·.· • 
rus-' ori;:. Satur.si~.<
Now;;;-:'FM'"riked..;' ···.·•··his 
re~;l1*m laug~. . . .,n.,....__...,.,.. 
s4 aboutth'at; We'll see":: .,.,.;·, ..........~ 
still chuckling when I walked · 
It wasn't until muchJater · 
Fitz hadn't used a single cle•VeJ~cbl~~linler 
tear my team down. Too 
the chance while he had it. 
could'~ have known? 
.;;: •• 

/F~~~ateJ~ be,lied,tAAt~,, ~~hpqpr }"itz could 
. ., . . . :~~:·~i:!'t:Wfi!;·::····,,·, .. '·'···>::t;fij;j.,,: ·· 
urgent frenzy that would overwhelm this 
campus that USC weekend? How could he, 
who has never been to this campus but 
once, envision the beer-crazed mob of 
students and alumni filling the streets 
between Nickie's and Corbys with a thirsty 
delirium that officially began the weekend· 
on which the Trojans would get their heads 
stomped. Hecouldn'thave known. 
He couldn't have known about the ND 
Game Psyche: the alumni everywhere, the 
motels filled almost back to Chicago; 
students whooping their loyalty across the 
keg-spotted Green Field, where a young 
man ·from New Y · . not an alumnus 
told "No doubt, 
And the 
-Goo, 30 cents 
AndfVfl}t . . giddy
coming · off a 
even the entire foreshadowings tion-~'§ou thern ip•~n~t red-anii'f:l<lld jtrj:Jle t-shirt: " s,--s." It was the. 1.\Vrfole datnn campus forgetting the book~: and-pen rigamarole, fuelling the beast Academia, and stepping forth#gbt and happy into a world of frenetie,>Eddy St. insanity andcop~Y•. 'froj~n~~:.~apng; football fantlj.sy•..·. But>t}qt ·fantasy at all--49-19 
psychological move of the weekend, the most dramatic part of the ND Game Psyche: the wearing of the greens? When 
I first heard that the team would be in green-and-gold, I assured myself and everyone within shouting distance that ND surely would crush SC like a box of cor11flakes. John Robinson would get sick at the sight of those jerseys. Fitz would get sicker. When the team gathered in the tunnel just before the game, the rowdy .ND throng confirmed the worth of the green~ jersey gambitwith a tremulous uproar that seemed never to diminish until we were far , in the lead. At the sight of.the greens and of the Trojan Horse roU~g 'ptninously onto the field, everyone seemed to ]mQlf' that the Irish would win. For. they'd "been there--on Eddy Street, in the Friday n;.,,nt.·m".h"' on Green Field about 
were ilm•ht••.-'1 that would win, I believe, we~e y,ery few; the . · · · and 
doubt had finalty"been silt:;~ce!J for perhaps the first time this season/ Along with the great beast Academia, the gargoyle Skep· ticisnt h., .. , for at least one day; been.·&;
' . . . IF! ,.,.. 
•• 0

A few days later, I was mAnn Arbor to visit friends who were. also U-M students and supposedly steadfast Wolverine fans. On this particular evening they were none too pleased with their football team, it having been so shockingly upset by Minnesota, 16-0. They talked about their team while, on a television in another room, Coach Bo Schembechler could be heard chuckling his team's poOI'.n·e~.rfu,rrifiil'ri~~e 
"Listen to' ~~Bo' s la11ghin'. ao1ou~ Jll~a,.ga:mt;~lli! he tryin' to kid?'' >'· ••' Mtybe ,,.hel!j -~........... 
another. .!J# . . 
· The firstotie U&UJ"om-u, aLtii'Jz:t~.Skt!d 

So Many Burnt-Out Cases 
Reuerend 

Robert Griffin 
Several years ago, I made a decision to never again write a column offering my opinion on the griefs and trials of the homosexual person. I had gotten myself an ecclesiastical reprimand from Rome itself for some of my pleas in behalf of gay people. The reprimand was gentle, and perhaps even reasonable, and it amounted mostly to a caution that Rome didn't want homosexuals to be misled by a blockhead like me, which provesthatRome cares more about homosexuals than Rome is common­ly supposed to be. I'm still a blockhead, and I don't ask anyone to share my opinions, or be misled by them; and I would, as a blockhead, keep my opinions to myself, except that folks I care about have asked me how I think the gay men and women on this campus (whom I also care about) should be ministered to. For myself, I must answer: I can only deal with human beings one at a time. I can only deal singly with the soul making its journey towards God, caught up in the excitement of passion in the flesh; needing to cherish and be cherished; requiring a climate where growth is possible; aware that God's love is ministered through the nearness and dearness offamily. I cannot deal with movements, however gay, because move­ments, through an excess of rhetoric, tend to lie and distort, deceive and destroy. 
In recent years, I have known two old gentlemen who lived together in the City. For over thirty years, they were friends, sharing an apartment, taking care of each other, nursing the other's illness, support­ing the other's existence. Last Spring, deat:, overtook one of the partners in this tender allijlnce; and months later, the surviving friend came to talk to me about the relationship. . 
"I loved Martin," he said, "more than I have ever loved anyone. He was the most remarkable person I have ever known." 
"If you love someone," I said, needing to make a reply, "that person always seems remarkable." 
"IfMartin had not been sc ·emarkable," he said, "I would not have loved him so 
much." I nodded in agreement, realizing that Martin's remarkability was not· a question to be debated. 
"Our friendship," he said, "began as a homosexual relationship, but that was true only in the beginning. Loving each other as we did, how could we go on that way, and still continue to receive the daily Eucharist." So, for over thirty years, these remarkable Christians lived together as celibates. Even married people, I think, could not have cherished each other more sensitively. 
Love among Christians has a tradition of , being exquisitely symbolic, reminding us of the ways Christ has taught us to love. Cups of cold water, for example, and visits to prisoners are acts of kindness done to the least of one's brothers as though those least brethren were Christ himself. Married love, following the teaching of St. Paul, symbolizes the union won through sacrifice between the Lord and his church. Sexual union means what the marriage bond means: a physical, fleshly intimacy expressive of, and contributing to a growing together of hearts and minds so that a man and a woman become two in one flesh. Every marriage between Christians reflects the other mystery of union we call the church. Ancient theologians describe each Christian marriage as an "eccles­iola," a "little church," a tiny community of lovers and believers; a small miniature ofthe Mystical Body, mirroring, in married and family life, the parable of the Vine and the branches. 
Ifheterosexual love, in its completion, is so declarative of redemption, what can be said of the salvific symbolism of sexual intimacy between two people of the same gender? What truth of God's love is borne witness to in such a union? Theologians, it seems, have yet to tell us. It is not hard to believe that a man's love for a man, or a woman's love for a woman, can bear a likeness of heaven's love for earth; it is not to be presumed that the Lord is unwilling to bless any union of lovers. However, I doubt whether the delicate thet'logy of such a union can be thoughtfully worked out in the street demonstrations where drag queens and transvestites are scream­ing out epithets of gay being good. · 
First of all, if the slogan means that gay 
sex is good, I wonder if the slogan is even 
true. It would, I think, be equally untrue 
that straight sex is good. Sex of any kind, 
as I understand it in my status as a rank 
amateur and looker-on, is neither good nor 
bad, but merely indifferent. The uses to 
which we put' our sexual energies are good or bad, depending on whether we use them for growth or for exploitation, or in a casual way, or as a vehicle for conveying an honest mood of the heart. There are forms of sex-whether gay or straight-which must always be perverted. I don't care what Masters and Johnson think: necrophiles are not normal people. 
Most of us have a fear of the sexuality we are gifted with, finding it as treacherous to live with as a copperhead with whom we share the same bathtub. Each of us, knowing his own sexual wounds, needs to be compassionate with his brothers and sisters who are similarly wounded, though we bear the scars in differing places of the soul. I am sickened by that fruit-peddling woman who campaigns against homo­sexuals under the battle cry, "Save our children." My God, what a sick and ugly insult. Save our children, indeed! as though our fellow sufferes, marching to the sexual beat of a different drummer, are not themselves in need of salvation from witch hunts and zealots. 
Many of us, living in this age of Playboy and Hustler, need to learn to properly cherish the uses of our sexuality. . Gay people, for obvious reasons, have a particular need for help. The Gay Lib movement may, as the phrase goes, have gotten the homosexual out of the closet, and onto the street. But it is not obvious that Gay Liberation is genuinely liberating. 
There used to be a little man who lived in South Bend who had come to town, he said, to found a gay church. I wasn't really very sympathetic toward him; sexual orientation hardly seems a good reason for a new rip in the seamless cloak of Christ. Eventually, the man became ordained, and he called me up to help him with the words of the Holy Communion service. He had been learning the ritual, he said, from listening to a tape recording; and the words of blessing, as he had understood them, sounded like this: "This is my body which has been shed for you." The word~ didn't even make sense, for Christ's sake, which shows, I think, how theologicl!llY ignorant the shephered was. He used to send me a newspaper published by the Gay Lib. In it, side by side with sympathetic statemepts .of support from serious clerics, were ads 
for bars and clubs that were completely offensive in the needs they promise to cater to. As I slummed my way from front page toback, .I thought of the gay students who have sat in my rooms, asking for counsel; and I thou~ht: how liberating can any 

sub-culture-be that sees progress in holding a Gay America beautry contest? A Gay America beauty contest may, or may not, be more tasteless than its Miss America counterpart seen on the tube from Atlantic City. Still, I think that sexuality, to be truly liberated, needs something more sensitive than the right to exhibit itself fleshly at a gay resort in the Catskills. 
In some columns I write, I run the risk of offending practically everybody. But I would judge that being out of the closet has to be more dignified than gay hustlers talking with Tom Snyder on television, with occasional flashes of the camera to dances in the New York baths where exhibitionis­tic gays are seen going zooey. Tennessee Williams at Notre Dame, drinking a toast to the gay students, didn't help matters, either. 
So, when asked, I say that I cannot deal with a movement, itself in need of being healed, like so much of the rest of the culture in this sexually obsessed age. If I seem unfair in my judgment, this is the image of the movement that comes through from reading the Times and the Voice and the fleeting perusals I have had of the Advocate. I can only deal with students who have heard it said that gay is good, but are not the least aware of how that goodness in gaiety is translatable into life styles that will not destroy them. I don't have much to tell them except perhaps to mention an old man mourning the death of his best friend, Martin, in New York, or to remind them that love, in all the ways it comes to us, is the breath of God whispenng in our ear of redempti(Jil, and that liberation comes from a commitment that love is free to make. 
Whole shelves in book stores, these days, are filled with the latest biographies of people writing that they have grown up gay; but I wonder how many of them ever acknowledge that love, as Christians envision it, begins at Calvary, and leads homeward to the Cross. I'm not saying that love must be celibate, even in its homosexual aspects; I am only saying it is sacrificial, willing to lay down its life for a friend. 
It's only a blockhead's opinion, of course, but I think the gays must tell us better than they have yet done -how it is that gay is good. Maybe they can do it; but it would sure help if so many of the gays I meet--in New York, for example, on the streets--did not have the appearance of . 
.. ~. ·. ·. •, 
bei~g burnt-out cases·. 

Friday, November 4, 1977
the observer
8 

UFO speciali$t to speak at ND 
by Lou Severino 

Clark C. McClelland, UFOlogist and former director of the National Investigations Committee on Aerial Phenomena, will lecture at Notre Dame this Monday. McClelland's presentation will be held at 7:30 
p.m. in the Library Auditorium and is sponsored by the Academic Commission of the Student Union. Admission is free. 
UFO research and the possibility of life beyond Earth will be the topics of Monday night's lecture. McClelland's experiences with unidentified aerial phenomena both by personal observation and others' sighting have produced new data which could help solve the mystery of UFOs. 
According to the April 18 issue of 
U.S. News and World Report, "the Government -perhaps the Presi­dent-is expected to make what are described as unsettling disclosures about UFOs. '' Such revelations based on information from the CIA would be a reversal of official policy that has, in the past, downgraded UFO incidents. 
The lecture will cover real-life 



Clark McClelland, an expert on UFO's, will give a lecture next Monday night on UFO research ad the possibility of extraterrestiallife. Maybe he can explain this mysterious aerial phenoma which was sighted near Trinidad Island in 1958. 
cases of UFO sightings and will include slides of actual UFO sight­ings. McClelland will also investi­gate the possibility of communica­tion with other worlds and cases of alien contact with humans. 
McClelland is presently employ­ed by a private engineering firm and was recently appointed as an investigator for the Center for UFO Studies, based atNorthwe~ternUni­versity. 
The Pittsburgh native, a direct descendent of William Clark of the Lewis and Clark expeditions, has worked as a scuba diver, science writer, archaeologist, artist and engineer. He also served as city manager of Titusville, FL (pop. 35,000) for two years. 
McCelland began studying the stars at the age of 10 using homemade telescopes. After graduating from Western Pennsyl­vania Institute of Technology with a degree in Structural/Mechanical Engineering Design, he joined the National Space Program and soon after was appointed Director of the Committee on Aerial Phenomena. He held this post for 11 years ( 1958-1969). McClelland was directly involved in the Apollo Program as a technical assistant and a back-up assistant to the astronaut crews. 
During this time, McClelland took part in several archaeological expeditions in search of evidence proving the existence of the legen­dary continent of Atlantis. These expeditions took him to the Ama­zon Jungle, Ecuador, Mexican Yucatan and the Atlantic Ocean. In 1968 one of these trips resulted n the discovery of ancient stone structures in the Bahamas that have stimulated new speculation regarding Atlantis. 
Pilgrimage to pass through South Bend 
by Jim Blaha· 

The International Pilgrim Virgin 
of Fatima will be in the Fort Wayne 
-South Bend Diocese rom Nov. 16 
to 26. The Pilgrim Virgin is a 
wooden statue of Mary carved into 
a likeness of the vision of Fatima as 
described by the sole survivor of 
the three children who saw the 
vision in 1917. 
The statue was made in 1948, 
when it was carried in a procession 
to Russia in the hope that "an era,..-­
of peace will be conceded to 
mankind." The Pilgrim Virgin has 
since been touring the world, and 
Notre Dame will have its only 
chance to honor the statue on Nov. 
17. 
Countless wonders have occur­
red during the pilgrimage of the 
statue, of which there are now 
several additional replicas. Wel­
coming crowds, especially in India, 
have been counted in the hundreds 
of thousands. Doves, symbolic of 
Mary's message, have flown to the 
base of the statue and have 
remained there, accompanying the 
statue along processions, and even 
into churches. This phenomenon 
has been called "the miracle of the 
doves." 
On others occasions there have 
been reports of the Pilgrim Virgin 
shedding human tears. This 
occurred during the statue's stay in 
SMC reporters to meet 
All St. Mary's reporters. must attend a staff meeting Monday at 6:30p.m. in the St. Mary's office in Regina South's basement. New procedures and helpful tips for writing will be presented. Anyone who finds it impossible to attend must call Jean at 4-4001. 
Lewisio's to reopen tonight 
Lewisio's will be open for busi­ness tonight starting at 7 p.m. in the basement of Lewis. Lewisio's features all the spaghetti, salad, and desert you can eat for 52. Call 3735 for reser\'ations. 
New Orleans and in Atlanta in 1972. These reports aroused so much interest that this statue was taken to many more countries, including South Vietnam before its 
fall.  Other  miracles  have  been  
reported,  including  a  girl  born  
blind gaining her sight.  

The Blue Army of Our Lady of Fatima has organized this visit to Notre Dame and South Bend, and plans are still being made about the ceremonies that will take palce. Louis Kaczmarek, a former presi­
Chapter 1: "The More you 
Know About Diamonds ... " 
Over the years, the one thing I've come to expect from students is skepticism. Like right now, you're probably asking yourself why this column is appearing in your news­paper. And since I hope you'll continue reading "John Marshall on Diamonds" in the forthcoming weeks, here's my reasoning: 
Motivating factor one: I enjoy about diamonds with any­one who is interested. As a Graduate Gemologist, I've spent most of my adult life learning about diamonds and other fine gem­stones. In fact, I even teach classes gemology at a little University lcamtiUS across town. So as long as persist in: (a) getting engaged, 
(b) learning, I will look forward to you about my passion. Motivating factor two: Sadly, students who purchase en­12a2eJneJ~t diamonds wind up "re-. less than full value for their l"""""t.n,<>nt." Every year I come contact with students who have victimized by "special sales" 
"student discounts" on engage­diamonds that are nothing than eyewash. Now, since 

of you operate on sorne1:hirtg than an unlimited 

Detroit, is currently travelling with the stature, and he will speak at ND during the visit. 
The Blue Army is a world-wide group of Catholic men, women and children who have signed a pledge to fulfill the requests made by Our Lady during her appearance at Fatima in Portugal in 1917. For fulfilling her request, she promised world peace. 
The special theme chosen by this group for the ten day visit, is "Respect for Life and Increase in 
would at least like to arm you with a bit of knowledge before you start shopping. Logic is a poor basis for an engagement, but a solid basis for selecting an engagement ring. 
Motivating factor three: I'm guessing that the more you know about diamonds, the more tempted you'll be to visit my Diamond Import Company. Whether you ultimately decide to buy from me or not, I will promise you that you'll know more about diamonds when you leave than you did when you came in. You'll know how they're classified in terms of quality and color, how they're priced, and why two seemingly similar stones may have very different values. You and your chosen one will have full useage of my Gemological labora­tory and research library, and can make your selection in an atmos­phere of absolute privacy. 
So much for my motivations. If you're still skeptical, then perhaps you'll be curious enough to speak with me first hand. I'm at Diamond Import Company, in the lobby of the St. Joseph Bank Building in downtown South Bend, or by phone at 287-1427. · 
Next week, I'll look at diamond classifications systems, or ''what you should tell the jeweler who offers you' a 'real deal' on a 'perfect blue-white' diamond." 
~~ OAK DAIRY ~PARTY STORE 
Keg Party Special Free Cups and Ice check our package liquor department 
open 9 to midnight Mon-Sat open 12 -12 Sun 684-4950 
Package Liquor to go! 
Stateline Road in Niles, My Way one block East of US 31 

0 0 0 

both for only 11.50 with this ad 
Have the soft, casual, great looking glow of today's most exciting new styles. Just bring a special friend to where there is "Best Expressed." Specially priced. Call 233-41 J J, ext. 275 for an appointment soon. 
BEAUTY SAlON-SIXTH FlOOR-ROIERTSON'S 
ROBERTSON'S 
Notre Dame Student Union & Sunshine Present 

SATURDAY NOVEMBER 5 7:30pm 
NOTRE DAME A.C.C. All Seats Reserved; $8.50 & $7.50 
On sale now at: 

ACC box office, Student ticket office, RDbertson's-~ 
Bend & Conc:oniJIIIall, First Bank-Main Brandl only, 
St. Joe Bank &'all brandies, Boogie Aeconls, Just For 
The Rec:onl, The Rec:onl Joint-Niles, The Elkhart Trvth 
and Suspended Coni in Elkhart River City Records, S. Band 
• 

,---r----, -~-------.-~-.-----,-------,-----~-----,------,--------,----:--;----------, 

C 1977 Miller 8rewmg Co.. Milwaukee. 'Ms. 

t;."~...-~~.."i:..' •·:...~t.'~· ......,• -..,'} 
l. 

10 the observer 
NO icers to host Wolverines 
by Paul Stevenson Sports Editor 

The Notre Dame hockey team will host the University of Michigan tonight and Saturday at the ACC, with both contests slated to start at. 8 p.m. 
The Wolverines were selected as the number-one preseason team by the WCHA coaches' poll. Michi­gan, last year's NCAA runner-up, trounced the Denver Pioneers last weekend in their regular season opener, 10-4, but were humbled in the concluding battle, 6-5. 
Sophomore center Dan Lerg registered a three goal hat-trick in the third period, to lead the Wolverines to their Friday night 
Irish down Valpo. 
[continued from page 11]. heading in a pass from Terry· Finnegan. Sophomore speedster Nick Schneeman made it 4-1 as he emerged out of the early evening darkness on a breakaway to notch his third goal of the season. That goal came at 38:07 and left Valpar­aiso looking ahead to next Wed­nesday's rematch on their home turf. What else is there to say except that Notre Dame soccer has more than justified its existence as an infant varsity sport at Notre Dame. The next chapter of this remarkable story will unfold before your very eyes this coming Saturday as the Irish try to make it fourteen wins in a row. 


triumph. Michigan held a 3-0 advantage after one period and only 4-1 after the second stanza, but exploded in the final period for six scores. Kip Mauer followed Lerg with two goals in the opening game victory. 
The Wolverines boast a very powerful team, a squad which returns 11 forwards, five defense­men and two goalies from last year's 20-12-0 club. They demon­strated their ability to come-from­behind last Saturday at Denver. 
The Pioneers had built a sub­stantial 5-l lead, but the Wolver­ines stormed back. Although Michigan failed on seven consecu­tive power plays, the Ann Arbor icers successfully knotted the score at five. However, Denver eventual­ly emerged victorious at the 1:24 mark of the overtime period. 
Lerg and Mauer did not provide the Wolverines with all of their punch last weekend. Dave Debol, who registered 34 goals and 37 assists last year, heads the WCHA after one weekend of competition with one goal and six assists. Mauer, meanwhile, added 32 goals and 23 assists for the Wolverines as a junior last season. 
The Irish are going to need a major rebound from last week's double loss, to Colorado College. 

Construct the mystery word in the boxes be­low. To do this you must fill in the correct miss­ing letter in each of the words listed in the 
The defensive play in that series was admirable, however, the of­fense could not generate the points. The main reason for the low point total was tiger goalie Vern Mott, who racked up 40 saves, several close to spectacular. 
"We took a considerable number of shots on Mott but just couldn't put it past him,'' Head Coach Lefty Smith commented. "I thought John Peterson played a fine game Friday night and whenever we can hold a team to three goals we should win the game." 
The Wolverines have been aw­fully powerful on offense, compil­ing 28 goals in four games, including their two preseason clashes. While Michigan averages seven goals a game, they have only relinquished four tallies per con­tests. Thus, this matchup will be quite a test for the winless Irish. 
"Our league is one of the most closely balanced in the country," Smith remarked. "We have to respect Michigan as number-one and it will be a great challenge to play them." 
Whatever transpires from this weekend's battles, it will be an experience for the Notre Dame pucksters. "Whenever you play a number-one team, you learn more than you would against a lesser opponent," Smith noted. 

This will be the first contest at home for the Irish, who have had a preseason clash with Minnesota­Duluth as well as last weekend's competition with the Tigers. 
''Jt's nicer playing at home than on the road because you know the boards and the ice," Smith ac­knowledged. "The familiar sur­roundings can mean a lot." 
On Friday night, John Peterson, who compiled 49 saves against Colorado College, will be in the nets, while on Saturday night, Len Moher will be between the pipes. 
This duo boasted the second and third best goals-against averages in the WCHA respectively, last sea­son. 
The stage is set; the Irish will be looking to bounce back weekend's double loss to the Tigers. The improving Notre Dame icers are prepared for their clash with the Wolverines. 
"Our play has improved since the Duluth series," Smith stressed. 
"If we can show continued improvement this weekend, I'm sure that fans will see two very fine collegiate hockey games. 



When there's a challenge, quality makes the jifference. 
We hope you have some fun wath the challenge. Pabst Blue Ribbon is the Number 1 beer in Milwaukee. beer capital of the world. 
That's why we'd like to offer; ..J another challenge -the Pabst challenge. Taste and co, ware Pabst Blue Ribbon to any other premium beer. lou'lllike.Pabst because Blue Ribbon quality means the best-tasting beer you can get. Since 1844 it always has. 
PABST. Since 1844. The quality has always come through. 
PABST BREWING COMPANY, Milwaukee, Wis .• Peoria Heights. Ill.. Newark, N.J., Los Angeles, Calli.• Pabst. Georgia 
.l.N3WHS3~::13~ :p.aoM I.Je\SI.W 
• 
\ 

,-~----------,-;-:----.--,---:------_...,-~----~------~-~---~~~~~~~~~~------111! 
. 
, 
j
Friday, November 4, 1977 
the observer 11 



NOTICES 

"We're 'ok-'you're OK" Gay Community at NO guide to ND/SB $1 Pandora's or Box 206 NO 
Gay Community of NO lnfolina-Fri& Sat. 10-12 pm 8870 _ 
ALL SMC REPORTERS: Mandatory meeting for all-Monday, Nov. 7 at 6:30pm In SMC office (basement of Regina South;) If you can't make it call Jean at 4001 
Accurate, Fast Typing Mrs. Donoho 232-0746 Hours BAM to 6Pm 
Will do typing neat, accurate, Hours9-6. Call: 287-5162 
Seniors: TODAY IS THE LAST DAY to get your nomination in for Senior Class Fello. Nominations close today at 6:30 
MIDWEST BLUES FESTIVAL* Nov. 11 & 12, at STEPAN CENTER. AnyoneInterested In running concessions stand at the FBStlval, Call Bob at 272-9321 
Typing Resonable rates. Call 8051 
Anyone wishing to register to vote in Indiana's MAY election should call MOat 4-4001 
School of Self sufficiency and learning. A small two week live-in course covering the basic arts and crafts of your ancestors combined with modern technology rela­tive to food, shelter and energy. Setting is on atranquil Missouri farm. Taught by a leading survival and self sufficiency expert with 35 years experience through­out the world. Wrfte Self sufficiency, Rt. 6, Box 85, Festus, M0. 63028 
OVER 65 or HANDICAPPED? We need to hear from you! Call 234-8190 to complete a short, confidential survey on transportation needs in St. Joseph County (The task force on specialized transportation.) 
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND Student Loans. $20-$150 1 day wait. 1% Interest due in 30 days Lafortune Basement. M-F 11:15-12:15 
FOR RENT 

Attic Room For Rent $10 weekly. 310 W. NavarreSt. SB 287-0853 
APARTMENT FOR RENT Fabulous one of a kind townhouse on river in Elkhart. Sunken Living Room, Fireplace, Swimming pool, Sunken red Japanese soal<ing tub, dishwasher, laun­dry equipment in each unit, winding staircase, some with skylight. Leases conform to school year. Nothing like it anywhere! 294-2151 
LOST &FOUND 

LOST: Student footbal ticket, Section 29, Row 35, Seat 11. Athletic Department has bean notified. Please ratu rn. Call Maureen 6856 
Lost: an NO MOnogram jacket in North Dining Hall. I really need it now that winter is here. There is a reward for its return. Dave 2216 
Lost-gold charm bracelet at USC game. Reward. Call collect 312-679-4553 
LOST: during break blue manil folder with interview material in it. Call Pat 234-1774 
Found-USC night small coverless ad­dress book at NO and Angela Blvd. Call Pat 234-1774 
Lost-digital watch at Stepan Center during USC Pep Rally Call Ed 1771 
FOUND NEAR Grotto: One combination loc:., manufactured by Presto Inc. If yours call 1n2 
LOST: Sliver polarized sunglasses in the meP . locker room at the Rock~e Memor­ial on Thursday Oct. 13th If found, please call 3716 or return thA'lJ to 902 
Flanner  
--------·-­ 
LOST: wir rim glassses If fo1:· at· .,r 7  :ail 8636  
F1  UNO:  On&  ;;~'"t  f=.·  season  
ti~wet.  Call 80?  •~  i~a~t.ij·  
_I  .  

by Monte Towle out in the near future. Notre 
Sports Writer Dame's chances have to be looking 
Thirteen wins in a row. Yes pretty good at this stage of the indeed, the Notre Dame soccer season. In the meantime, the Irish team resumed its winning ways still have some kinks and rust spots yesterday afternoon on the field to work out. behind Stepan Center. Valparaiso "The layoff (during October fell victim to the Irish's 13-1-1 break) hurt us a bit and the shots record, one that will hopefully earn just weren't going in for us today," them a bid in the NCAA'Division II Pete (Squeak) Logan stated after playoffs later this month. the victory. 
"We really want a bid to the In fact, the latter _oart of that NCAA playoffs," Oliver Franklin, a statement pretty well painted the junior fullback stated. The regular game's picture. Notre Dame season is nearing curtain time for outshot Valparaiso by a margin of the Irish with NCAA bids coming 55-8. In a way, it's a wonder that 
FOUND: NO ice hockey ticket for 11/4/77. call Rafael at 8714 to identify. 
WANtED 

NEED 2 PADDED CROSBY,STILLS, NASH TIX.287-7051 
Apartment lease to get out of second semester? We need apartment for 3 females close to SMC reasonable Call 284-4626 
Need 1 GA tickety for Georgia Call Marianne 6991 
Needed:2 GA tickets Georgia Tech Call Betsy 4-4184 
Addressers Wanted IMMEDIATELY! Work at home--no experience necessary excellent pay. Write American Service, 8350 Park Lane, Suite 269 Dallas, Tx 75231 
NEED TWO GA GEORGIE TECH TICK 
KETS. CALL KEVIN 8713 
Need urgently-? GA tickets to Georgia Tech Game. Phone Chris 1158 
NEED 4 GA tickets to Georgie Tech, Air Force Games. Will Pay top$$ Call Pat or Ed at 8377/8378 
Need Georgia Tech tix's-preferably student. Call 288-8417 
Need ride to and from PITTSBURGH at THANKSGINIG. Call1581 
Need GA Tech GA's Please call Helen, 7260 
NEEDED: 'Two GA Georgia Tech tickets Call Dawn 7892 
Need 3 student or GA tickets $$$ Call 1618 
Need 2 to 4 GA and 1 studel;( ticket for Georgia Tech Call 288-0088 
Wanted: 2 GA tickets for Georgia Tech. Call Tom at 3693 
GA's and student tickets to Georgia Tech. Mick 2743 or Ern 1750 HELP!! 
Need 1, only 1,GA tickety for Georgia Tech Help me keep a friend. Call Steve 8998 
I need one student ticket to Georgia Tech Money is no object Call Russ at sn2 
Need 5GA tix for GA Tech Call Jim 8708 
NEED , N 0/St. Mary's Students nite work-Nicola's Rest.-809 N. Michigan Sreet-Part-time or Full time-Hourly pay-Waitresses Busboys Pizza-maker, dishwasher, apply in person-Nicola's Rstaurant 
TYPIST WANTED: Full time, to type set display advertising, Monday and Wed­nesday thru $atorday afternaons aRd/or evenings. Hourly pay. Exper~ helpful, but not necessary. Apply HI person at: The Penny Saver, 2102 S. Michigan St., South Bend, 288-1411 
WANTED: 2 or 4 GA Georgia Tech tix. PLEASE Call Ann 6859 
Desperately need 2Geo. Tech GA tix Call 288-8235 
Your parents cannot make it to the Georgia Tech game? How about selling me their tickets. Call Geoff at 1083 anytime and keep on trying. 
PLEASE HELP! Need 3 GA or student tickets for Georgia Tech. Call Rosie between 12 &2 pm 
HELP! I need 2 GA tickets for Georgia Tech. Call Jeff 1715 or 8661 between 10-12am 
Need 2 GA Georgia Tech Tickets Call Mayr 4786 
Yes, I still need at least 4 Georgie Tech GA tickets. CAll Geoff at 1083 anytime! 
WANTED: One student Georgia Tech ticket. Guy: 289-9351 
Need 2 Air Force tickets Please Call 4-5181 
WANTED 1 season Basketball Ticket. 
Will pay Pleasse Call d-5181 
Dick th' .iJser is coming Saturday, and if I do1 . get two GA tickets for the Georaia ,-~ch game ~c·s gomg to attach my far.e to the Dome r;all 1244 
HELP! Need 3GA tix for Georgia Tech! 
Call Rocco 1386 
Need one Georgia Tech ticket Call Bill 8792 
36-24-36 sell me your Air Force Tix 1 studetn, 2 GA Sue 4798 
WANTED: 1 GA or student tix. Georgia Tech big Bucks Mark 8514 
NEED $$$: Sell me 5 NO Air Force GA tickets Call Jim 3559 
Need 2-GA Georgia Tech Tix. Call Ray 
1466 

WANTED: 2 GA Georgia Tech tickets. 
Will paygood Price. CAll Tom 289-9351 
Need one Georgia Tech Ticket. Call Jim 
3494 

NEEDED: GA tickets to Remaining HOme games Call1996 Ask for Mark or Marty. 
Must save 1or 2GA tix for Georgia Tech 
Call John at 1941 
WANTED: Need 2 CSN tickets. Call 
Kevin 288-3056 
Need Four Georgia Tech Tickets Joan 288-2969 
ATTENTION OBSERVER TYPISTS, need areplacement for Thurs afternoons. Please Call Eileen 4894 
NEED EXTRA MONEY? Sell Olde World Industrial or HOme Cleaning Supplies and Personal Care products. Some OW people earning over $1000 weekly. All depends on your ability and time. Brasilia PO Box 2023, Elkhart, lnd 46515 or Call Elkhart 293-0531, 264 1501 (nights) 
WANTED: 2 good tix for Crosby, Stills , Nash. Call Mark at 2140 Will pay good money. 
Need GA Geo. Tech Air force tickets Call 
Claire 289-6533 
Need 4 GA Georgia Tech Tix. Call Jim 3130 
HELP! I need 2 CSN tickets. Call Bob, 1421 
Need one student or GA ticket for Georgia Tech call Chris at 1766 · 
Male business student ot make collection calls. 3--4 hrs/night. $2.75/hr. Call Mr. Gendron at 256-1884 · 
Wanted: All those Senior Class Fellow Nominees that have not already been submitted. GET YOUR NOMINATION IN NOW!! 
WANTED: 2 tickets to CSN concert call Bill 289-7690 • 
. EXTM MONEY'!
.·. 

If you've ever sold anything before, Call now! We need qualified people to sell advertising in our offices year round. Good Voice & diction required, top commissions, related atmosphere, 6 hours per day. CALL Mr. Allis, 683-2403 
NNED 2 Tech GA tix for M&D-1553
• 

NEED 1 GA Air Force ticket. Please call Kelly: 1266 
Desperately need Georgia tech tickets. Call Steve 1248 
NEED 1 Student Air Force ticket. Call 
4-4894 
WILL PAY ANYTHING FOR ONE GEORGIA TECH TICKET (STUD. OR GA( CALL 8549 
LOST: One blue nylon "St. Mary's Track" jacket, with "Bob" sewn on front. Priceless sentimental value. Rob 8464 
FOR SALE 

FOR SALE: Pioneer 300 Receiver cheap. Call 8636 after 7 
Pandora's books is having a BIG STORE WIDE SALE. All used books are 50%off and selected new books (including The Simarrillon) are 25% off. It's time tor early chr!stmas shopping or books for classes. We have many, many N 0 books. Phone 233-2342. 937 Suuth l\er.ct f>.Ve. 
NarT'rc Brand St~r9c ~ orke~ You :.an afforo ··, 'Nar· ra;.ty Ca!~ ?r,, q -. 
1 5

-·-. ""U.UI ....., l'bijg,o•") I I-----~---·'··~·>,
I 
Notre Dame dtdn't score more than the four goals it did. The Irish will get a chance to 'redeem' their offensive pride before the home fans this Saturday morning at ten when they host Indiana-Purdue of Indianapolis on Cartier Field. It will be their final home game of the season. 
Notre Dame applied the pressure early in the game and after several scoring threats skidded by Bill Hagerty placed a corner kick somewhere in the vicinity of Dan McCurrie's head... 1-0, Irish. And with but a minute left in the first half, Hagerty doubled the lead slamming home a penalty kick into the lower left side of the net. 

The visitors were able to sneak a head shot past goalie Mark Klein early in the second half ...No reason for Coach Rich Hunter's crew to lose their cool. At 14:06, Jim Moellering upped the lead to 3-1 
[continued on page 10] 

CLASSIF'IEl) ADS 
USC,UCLA Come and Kevin 3587 Boston Beans 
Pioneer Receiver Model SX-737 Great THE SNAKE Condition Call 8320 "A narrow fellow in the grass" he 
slithers toward 229 Holy Cross... CLASSIC OVATION GUITAR WITH HARD SHELL OVATION CASE ASKING Dear Seniors: $225.00. MUST SELL Call Gene at 1694 Hurry to the Dining Halls, hurry to the 
Bar, The Huddle Is another one so you 
needn't go too far Senior Fellow TICKETS FOR C*S*N CONCERT. Call Nominations end upon this day So hurry John at 272-5564 & get yours in, there's no time to delay. 
WHY PAY MORE? FLANNER REC, EXPERIENCED MINSTRELS FOR HIRE ORDS has all $6.98 list LP's only $4.50 SERENADING A SPECIALTY. ALSO All $7.98 list LP's only $5.29 Over 400 CUSTOM SONGWRITING. CALL albums in stock. Phone orders accepted RINGO AND JESTER FLANNER RECORDS 322 Flanner 8243 Phone:2741. Hours M-Th 4-5, 6:30-8:00 Sun 2-3:30 YUP. CICELY TYSON'S COMING! Nov. 
8, 7:30, O"laughlin Aud. PERSONALS 
HAPPY BELATED 21st to Rene "Buns" HAPPY BIRTHDAY* GUMS! KEEP Bertone Cutest Butt that side of 31. SMILING! 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY! TO MARY & molly ALL SMC REPORTERS: THE SMC TWINS Mandatory meeting for all-Monday,Nov. L&J 7 at 6:30 pm in Smc office If you can't make it, call Jean at 4001 Need ride from Valpo-Chestertyon to NO 
Fri. or Sat. Call Mary 5235. HAPPY HOUR AT Pinocchio's Pizza Parlor 4-7 mon. -Thrus. 2 pitchers for Former Boss Man, price of one! Georgetown Plaza, !I only knew you before hand! Emmons Rd. (4 mins from Juniper circle) SB 
To my abductors; Van Schaack 
You all are unbelievable! Wed. was Welcome to South Bend finally. Hope certainly my right-Thanx so much for a hope your engagement doesn't keep you great and nerve-wracking time! Here it is from raising a little hell this weekend. in writing: 6 months London, 6 months Bonomo Rome! Kidnap me again! 
SJ Carol Burnett & Company-There will be 
retaliation. ATTENTION JUNIORS: The Voice Dec. 3 is a date to remember. N0& SMC's Christmans Ball will be held in For 21 years Brian Doyle has loved 'em Century Center's Great Hall. So set you and left'em and kissed and told, but we bait to catch your date. Don't hesitate, sti II take our chances. Happy 21st there's no need to wait! Any questions or Birthday · volunteers to help call: Lynne 4-4476, Your Own Calendar Girls Kathy 4-5111 or Marnie 2-6976 
Mon Petite Chou Chou TAKE MOTE TO THE ABOVE GET You are absolutely, positively, truly, THOS£ F111~~RS DIAI.IHG GUYSI verily, Indeed, decidedly, unequivocally, 
ui\CGf!ditionally, asstn<Jiy, certainly, Burces of NO unite Saturday, Nov. 5 For down right undoubtedly the BeSt. more information call Burce and find au xxxooxoxllo on your B-day how you can be a Bruce II 
4th floor Lyons wishes a happy birthday SENIORS, RESUME PROBLEMS? to the best RA in the whole world, our 'We'll do it atl for you. Call Margie or own Peggy Foran. We love you! Margo 272-5217 
Happy Birthday Madame Fifi, Happy Birthday, Babbette! We are We owe it all to you. 
:,.~"f the. 'retunr";;;~f the birthday 
. ·, ·.""": ~ ':'~~ 

80 JOAN* We salute '"Thunder ch8elis" Willie ·Hlr YOUR BEATIFUL SISTER• the most powerful moon on campus. LOUISA 
7-C, Grace Mrs. DR Morris Goldstein. Ann Gal, Gal, Goi 
You may not be 21 (even though your NY Disco Queen 10 says otherwise) but 20 is old enough for a Classy Lady IIke you to have a good Madame Fifi, time. Happy Birthday How giving of a person are you? 
From the 5'2" Blue-eyed, Blonde Fort Wayne "Spurs" 
Jim Morse-Peggerella You came too soon (as usual) You're getting anew broon for your 23rd Crystal Birthday 
Hey, Barb, how about another rendition Peggy, of Rita's heart-throbbing song­What do you want more? Acat or an elec­curling iron style?! tric blanket? 
Happy Birthday Dear Xaviera, Flat, Stonette, Epileptic, Happy 18th Birthday Mike-218 Carroll, and the Pope, Are you Mad-ely-in love or just-in love The Accomodations are getting a little with them "Foxy" ladies? shabby. Get on the stick. Carroll Hall Wadd Sqaud "Miss Good bush" 
Disco Queen Get loaded on you 18th Mike in 218 Carroll. Tom, 
Happy 18th! Just think-now you can Poet Laureate of Holy Cross-legally go to Chechos! Your use of language was so precise Your sister As you describe how we are so nice Since everything you said was true John, In appreciation we think the same of you! Happy Birthdya ! Have awild and wooly 
The Literary Critics of LeMans 22nd 
c 
To Barb, 

Happv Birthday. on your 19th(?). Your Ron Szot coming closer but then you will never ''There's no more faith in thee than In a catch :1p with me. Besides. yov're on the stewed prune " (culturally speaking, of wrnn(, side ot tl)e ·oad course.( 
J 

l__ -------------------------------------,­

12 the observer 
Irish to collide with Ramblin' Wreck 
by Craig Chval Dame Stadium, the stakes will be 
Sports Writer much greater, thanks to convincing 
Notre Dame wins over Southern 

Twelve months ago, Georgia Cal and Navy that have rocketed Tech's Ramblin' Wreck dealt a the Irish into fifth place in both fatal blow to Notre Dame's major wire-service polls, and very much bowl aspirations with a 23-14 upset back into the· national champion­win in Atlanta. When the two ship picture. teams tangle tomorrow in Notre Coach Pepper Rodgers' troops 

Terry Eurick leads the way for Notre Dame's leading ground gainer, jerome Heavens. [~hoto by Doug Christianl. 
Paul Stevenson·~====================================================================================================================================================================:=:=:=======:=:===========:=:=====:=====;=;===:===:============================= 
The Irish Eye 
pulled off their shocker by running roughshod through Notre Dame's vaunted defense for 368 yards while completely ignoring the for­ward pass. Irish Head Coach Dan Devine and his charges will be expecting more of the same from the S-3 Yellow Jackets, who are eyeing a bowl bid despite last week's 25-24 loss to Duke. 
"I suspect that they would stay with their gameplan (from last year), although we have to prepare for everything," said Devine. "But we have to feel that they won't throw very much." 
Junior halfback Eddie Lee Ivery is Tech's meal ticket, and the Yellow Jackets haven't gone hun­gry too often this fall. Ivery, who scampered for 81 yards against the Irish last faiL has amassed740 yards on 112 carries in 1977. He is joined in the backfield by quarterback Gary Lanier, halfback Bucky Sham­burger (5.2 yards per carry), and fullback Rodney Lee (5. 7 yards per carry). 
Georgia Tech will give Notre Dame its first look at the Wishbone formation this fall. and that will present problems for the Irish defense, as junior strong safety Jim Browner points out. "We basically had to start all over for Georgia Tech," said Browner, who leads the Notre Dame secondary in both tackles (48), and tackes for nega­tive yardage (6). "We had to put in a couple of new defenses for the Wishbone, because we can't use our regular defenses against it." 
In particular, the secondary will have to be more run-conscious. ''We have to key on the backs more, as opposed to the tight end," explained Browner. "We still have to check the tight end, but now we're watching the backs, too." 
Browner echoed Devine's senti­ments about preparing for both the run and the pass. ''They can throw the quick pass off that formation, and if they catch everybody com­ing up for the run, it's a quick six." 
Defensively, the Yellow Jackets boast four-year starter Lucius San­ford at one linebacking position. Sanford has been an Associated Press honorable mention All-
America selection for the past two 
seasons. He will spearhead a defense that will attempt to do what has been the impossible so far 
this season--harness Notre Dame's All-America tight end Ken Mac­Afee. 
The Ramblin' Wreck coaching staff has promised something special to combat the nation's fourth-leading receiver, but Devine took a wait-and-see attitude. "We'll have to wait until the game before we decide if we have to make any adjustments.'' 
Along with MacAfee, Tech must stop junior quarterback Joe Moll'­tana, who passed for a career-high 260 yards last week. Halfback Jerome Heavens, with 713 yards on the season, has been the mainstay of the Irish backfield. 
The ability of Notre Dame's offense to get out to an early lead would seem to be more important than usual against a team that relies so heavily on the ground game, but Devine dismisses the notion. "It won't be any more important than in any other game. 

Last week was routine in the world of college football as the top nine teams were victorious. The only loss in the top ten belonged to Southern Cal, as the Trojans fell to the Golden Bears of California, 17-14. After meeting the fired-up Irish on October 22, Southern Cal faced another sky-high team in the likes of California, a squad which dedicated that battle to the late Joe Roth. 
Meanwhile, Clemson won another game last Saturday, defeating Wake Forest and extending their winning streak to seven. The Tigers' only loss came in their season opener against Maryland, 21-14. Clemson will have a tough contest tomorrow against the Tarheels of North Carolina, especially if they are anticipating their clash with the Irish next weekend. 
So, with the assistance of Bob Brink, here are the Irish Eye's picks for this weekend's collegiate fridiron action. Georgia Tech at Notre Dame: The Yellowjackets are coming off a heartbreaking 25-24loss to Duke. After that clash, the Ramblin' Wreck's record slipped to S-3, but, aspirations for a bowl bid have not departed from this Tech squad. If the Yellowjackets could repeat their upset performance of the Irish a year ago, they could be right back in the bowl picture. Notre Dame has been playing outstanding football, handing both the Trojans and Midshipmen their worst defeats of the 1977 ::ampaign. The Irish were wiped from the major bowl scene last year in Atlanta. The Notre Dame gridders have a lot at stake this year, especially after bouncing back into the National Championship picture two weeks ago. The contest will be hard-fought, and regardless of whether or not Pepper Rodgers and company throw a pass, the Irish should emerge victorius by 13. Brink backs Notre Dame by 13. Texas at Houston: The Longhorns just keep on dominating all their opponents. Last week it was a supposedly tough Texas Tech squad. However, the Longhorns over-powered the Red Raiders, 26-0. Tomorrow, Texas should emerge victorious again, but not by such a large margin. Give this matchup to the Longhorns by 10. Brink eyes Texas JY two. Ohio State at DUnols: The Buckeyes have easily handled all their opponents since their one-point loss to Oklahoma. Ohio State is just waiting for their contest with Michigan. Dlinois will give them a game, but will not prevent this Buckeye squad from attaining their goal of Rose Bowl competition. Since the game is in Champaign, the Buckeyes might score one touchdown less, but they will still conquer by 12. Brink follows Ohio State by 24. Georgia at F1orlda: This annual contest is being played in Jacksonville, the same place' the Irish performed last year during the Christmas Holidays. Last season, the Bulldogs captured the contest, 41-27. Tomorrow should be entirely diffenent, as the Gators make up for last year and down Georgia by 7. Brink looks for Florida to come out on top by 2. Michigan State at Minnesota: How can a team which beats Michigan one· week lose to Indiana the following weekend? Well, just ask the Gophers. they pulled off both of those miraculous feats. Tomorrow, the Gophers entertain a hot Spartan squad and Minnesota's undefea~d home record will be on the line. Michigan State will give the Gophers a hard-fought contest, but Minnesota should be able to return to the win column. So, give this clash to Minnesota by 3. Brink looks for Michigan State to 
capture this one by 9. Stanford at Southern Cal: The Trojans record has now fallen to S-3, but Southern Cal is still ranked sixteenth in the AP wire service poll. Somebody believes the Trojans still have the talent to go on. Although their overall record is dismal, the Trojans are tied for the number-one spot in the Pac Eight with a 3-1 conference ledger. The Cardinals are one of the teams that is knotted with the Trojans for the top spot. This is a must 
~for both teams if either would like to be in Pasadena on January 2. will be physical, but the Trojans shl)uld up their winnings to six games as they down the Cardinals by 7. Brink backs Southern Cal by 8. Northwestern at Michigan: Johnny Pont said his squad would win some football games this year. Well, the Wildcats have soared to an 0-81edger in 1977. It's about time Northwestern win a game, but this week is not the time to do it. Especially when you're playing a nationally ranked team that just happens to reside in Ann Arbor. The Wildcats will have to wait until next week and try to upset the Spartans for two consecutive years. Tomorrow's contest should go to Michigan by 17. Brink backs Michigan by 40. Nebraska at Missouri: The Tigers returned quarterback Pete Woods to their lineup last Saturday and ended up dumping highly-touted Colorado. Maybe that victory will preserve AI Onofrio's job for another season. Regardless .of last week's upset, Missouri will find the going tough tomorrow. Another upset will be difficult to come by. Nebraska already has two losses this season and that ia a rarity. The Tigers will not be the team to give the Cornhuskers loss number three. Thus, this gridiron clash will go to Nebraska by 10. Brink backs by 6. 
Purdue at Wisconsin: Well, Wisconsin proved that their S-0 mid-season record meant nothing as they dropped a close 42-0 decision to the Buckeyes last week. Maybe they have a chance against the Boilermakers in their home arena. However, Purdue quarterback Mark Herrmann is third in the nation in passing, not too bad for the freshman phenom. If Herrmann gets a hot hand, then Purdue should also dispose of the Badgers. Let's give this battle to the Boilermakers by 7. Brink looks for Purdue to come out on top by 4. 
Oemson at North Carolina: Clemson has had a remarkable season with a 7-1 mark thus far. That's quite a rebound from last year's 3-6-2 record. The Tarheels will be quite a test for the Tigers. Clemson may be anticipating their clash with Notre Dame next weekend plus the Tarheels are tough on their home turf, a fact the Irish noted two years ago. The game will be close, and it would be great if the Tigers were 8-1 when the Irish travel to Greenville next week, but tomorrow will be the day of the Tarheels. Thus, give this matchup to North Carolina by 3. Brink eyes the Tarheeels by 5. 
Washington at California: The Golden Bears are 2-2 in conference action and need this game if they have any prayer of staying in the Pac Eight race. Washington will give them a tough battle, but, if the Bears play like they did last Saturday against the Trojans, they should be able to down the 
Huskies. As a result, this match goes to California by 6. Brink expects the Golden Bears to win by 7. Kentucky at VanderbUt: The Commodores have not been playing bad football, although one may think that by record alone. Kentucky has suprised a lot of people with their crushing performances this yea_r. Vanderbilt could surprise the Wildcats, especially with the game bemg played in Nashville. The Commodores lost a squeaker to Oklahoma in the season opener and could pull one off against the highly-ranked Wildcats. Thus, give this clash to Vanderbilt by 3. Brink looks for the victor to be Vanderbilt by 4. Upset of the Week: Alabama at wulslana State: This game will be quite a battle. Bear Bryant will breathe a lot easier when this one's over. The Tigers are great at pulling off upsets and this one has real possibilities. The Crimson Tide has been impressive ever since their 21-20 win over Southern ~at.. The Tigers are the only real threat to prevent Alabama from appea~g tn t~e Sugar Bowl. The Tide may not want this one to escape, but the T1gers will be equally set for the challenge. So, give this Southern battle to LSU by 3. Brink eyes the Tide by 6. Last Week: Eleven right and one wrong for 92 percent. Guest picker, Dave O'Keefe, ahd nine correct and three wrong for 75 percent. OvenU: Sixty-nine right and 16 incorrect for 82 percent. 
Two years ago, we were ahead late in the game, and they were still running the ball." 
\lith Clemson and the return trip to the Deep South awaiting Notre Dame next week, Georgia Tech is in a similiar position to last year, when the Irish were slated to face Alabama on the following Satur· day. If Notre Dame is to travel to Clemson with a 7-1 record next week the Irish will have to duplicate the intensity that resulted in last week's 43-10 thrashing of 
Navy. ......---SPOrtS 
NEWS 
ND pep rally 

There will be a pep rally for the Georgia Tech game tonight at 7 
p.m. in Stepan Center. Speakers will include Head Coach Dan Devine. Bob Golic, Jerome Heav· ens, and Coach Kelly. 
IH basketball 

Rm;ters for Men's and Women's Interhall Basketball are due by Tuesday. November 8. Each dorm is permitted one team per I 00 residents. Club and grad league rosters are due by Wednesday. November 9. Applications are also being taken for officiating women's basketball. This is a paying job and open to both men and women students. For more information see your hall Athletic Commission­er or call the lnterhall Office at 6100. 
8-ball tickets 

Distribution of basketball tickets 
for the 1977-78 season will take 
place Tuesday through Friday, 
November 8-11 at the ACC Ticket 
Window between 8:30 a.m. and 
4:30p.m., including the noon hour. 

Students should report to pick up 
their tickets as follows: 

Seniors: Tuesday, Nov. 8 Juniors, graduate and law stu­dents: Wednesday, Nov. 9 Sophomores: Thursday, Nov. 10 Freshmen: Friday, Nov. 11 
No seat locations have been assignd, therefore, students de­siring to sit together must present ID cards at the same time. Each student may present only one additional ID card. Married stu­dents may procure their tickets along with their classes. St. Mary's students who were notified that they would be receiving tickets can pick them up along with their classes. This distribution is only for student tickets that were pur­chased during the summer. Stu­dents who purchased tickets earlier in the school year will be notified by the Ticket Manager. No tickets are available for sale. 
Optional games 

Tickets for the November 18 game against the U.S.S.R. national team are not included in the student package becasue the game was not scheduled at the time of the ticket sale. Students desiring tickets for the game, or for the MISSISSIPPI OR St. Joseph games, which are scheduled during Thanksgiving and Christmas break, should report to the Gate 10 box office beginning Wednesday, Nov. 9, at 9 a.m. The cost for each game will be $2 for lower arena seats, and $1.50 for bleacher seats. Only one ticket per ID card per game will be available. 
Tickets are now on sale for the Nov. 13 intrasquad charity game. All proceeds of the game, which starts at 7:30p.m., will be donated to the Neighborhood Study and Special Olympic programs. Cost is SO cents, and the tickets are available at 10. Information con­cerning tickets for individual home games and away games will be forthcoming in the next few weeks. 








