
server 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's 
Monday, February 21, 1977

Vol. XI, No. 84 
Invited since 1968 
·Tennessee Williams finally speaks at SLF 
by Maureen O'Brien Sophomore Literary Festival (SLF) Senior Staff Reporter since 1968. He finally spoke to an and overt1ow crowd in Washington Hall 
Barbara Breitenstein last Friday night. News Editor After an SLF committee person cautioned the audience not to 

by Jim Hershey 

The 1977 Mardi Gras ended Saturday night at Stepan Center with the raffle of a 1977 Cutlass Supreme and a spontaneous train dance through the booths at 2:00 a.m. 
To the music of the California String band, about 80 students made a long train and danced through all the booths before leaving. 
On Friday night Chairman Don Bishop and Coordinator AI O'Gor­man awarded trophies to seven booths. Morrissey-Holy Cross (SMC) Around -the World in 80 Days won the award for Best Booth. Bishop said, "We told the Morrissey people a while ago what the hours were for building the booths. Several times they stayed after these hours, even on week nights. They seemed to be very dedicated.'' 
Stanford's Tommy won the a­ward for Best Art Work. The other awards were: Most Original ­Knights of Columbus' Graucho Marx; Best Special Effects, Grace-· LeMans -2001: Space Odyssey; Greatest Comeback, Dillon -Jaws, Best to Follow Theme, Holy Cross (ND)-Augusta -King Kong. The committee awarded Oscar trophies to these winners. 
Bishop said, "Almost everyone seemed concerned about the qual­ity of their booth. There was a greater concern for aesthetic value." 
Bishop commended Cavanaugh 
Booth chairman Mike Duffy for his 
efforts. "Some booths are here to 
make money. I think most see it as 
a hall activity. I think Mike would 
epitomize that attitude. He really 
tried to get Cavanaugh involved." 
Several Booth chairmen agreed 
on the spirit of cooperation in Mardi Gras this year. referring to the booth and committee workers, Barb Berhalter, Farley booth chair­man, said, "Everybody's attitude -was good. If you needed a hand, they always would come to the rescue. The one thing I noticed was that the committee was friend­ly, always ready to help and they 
always had a smile." 
''What made me the happiest 
was that everyone always went 
over to help other halls." Bishop 
said. "It was like a team." 
"My most important goal was to 
make it more fun for the people 
who worked," he continued. "I 
think that the booth chairmen 
really enjoyed it." 
Beverley Verhey of Alsip, Illinois 
won the raffle. Her ticket number 
was 001. 
IUghestproceedsever 
Bishop lauded Claire Boast and 
Beth DeLucenay for their efforts as 
Raffle Co-Chairmen. There were 
19,100 tickets sold and raffle pro­
ceeds increased by $6,000 from last 
year. 
Bishop approximated the pro­
ceeds to be between $25,000 to 
$26,000. He said that last year the 
committee brought in about 
$24,000. Last year they claimed 
that this amount was the highest 
ever raised in Mardi Gras. ­
The total booth revenue for a 
single night reached a peak on 
Saturday of $4737. Keenan earned 
the highest revenue for one booth 
in one night. They earned $665.50 
on Saturday. 
Bishop noted the work of CILA 
and the Ombudsman on the con­
cessions and on admissions. He 
said that these two organizations 
worked about 1,000 man hours 
combi&td. 
Jayne Rizzo, SLF committee per­son, introduced Williams. 
Williams walked to center stage where a desk, chair and a bottle of. wine were situated. He poured a glass of wine for himself, lifted the glass and toasted the audience saying, "To Our Lady". Then Williams poured more wine into the glass and made a second toast to a group of gay students at Notre Dame. 
Williams began with a story about Mae West. 
"You know I visited Mae West four times. She always had these four bulky bodyguards around her," he said. 
"One day, she called her Orien­tal butler and said, 'Grayson, bring the box of jewels that my fans have sent... Look at these little dia­monds, emeralds and rubies,' she said," Williams continued. 
"I thought they looked like broken glass," Williams said. "Well, now I have my own little bijou,'' holding up a pearl necklace for the audience to see. 
Williams then started to read, apologizing to the audience for not "being a performer." His first 
selection was a story entitled "Mother Yours" which will soon be published in Esquire. "Mother Yours 'is a story about a Southern the last moment because he had to woman, a Lutheran minister's leave the country to go to Mexico. daughter, who contracts a cancer-In a telegram sent by his agent Bill ous sore on her face which is a rare Barnes, Williams apologized to the tropical skin disease. Her family 1975 SLF committee saying, exiles her from her own home "Pressed, you understand. Much because of the disease. She dies more involved in situation than I from a complication. could authorize Mr. Barnes men­
After finishing "Mother Yours", tion. Deeply disappointed. Per­'Williams stopped to pour himself sonal and private explanation later. 
some more wine. "I assure you, Sincerely, Tennessee." 
this can only improve the reading," Williams received the New York 
Williams said, explaining the wine. Drama Critics Circle Award for The 
Williams continued reading with Glass Menagerie in 1945. He 
a bi-lingual poem entitled "Andre received the Pulitzer Prize in 1948 
Gide, Mon Amour", from his for A Streetcar Named Desire, and 
second book of verse. again in 1955 for Cat on a Bot Tin 
After reading a third poem, Roof. Both plays also won Drama 
someone from the audience shout-Critics Awards, as did Night of the 
ed out to Williams, "Talk, don't Iguana in 1962. In 1969, Williams 
read.'' Williams then read two won the Gold Medal for Literature 
final poems, one entitled "Old Men by the American Academy of Arts 
Go Mad at Night" and a poem & Letters and the National Institute 
about the adventures of "Miss of Arts & Letters. 
Monkey and Miss Puma" and then Incidently, Williams donated his 
entertained questions from the speaking and appearance fee. 
audience. Likewise, his agent, Bill Barnes 
When Williams was aksed what also sacrificed his commission. 
he thought about the television The money William told, will go to 
adaptions of his work, he replied, an ill friend and professor in New 
"I'd say, most of them, leave five Orleans, Oliver Evans. 
minutes before the end." Le rt SLF f, tJ a1
1

Williams had been scheduled to ve ov c oses es v appear at the 1975 Sophomore The Sophomore Literary Festival Literary Festival, but concelled at [continued on page 2] 
Observer petitions for rate hike 
by Gregg B. Bangs Executive Editor 

The Observer will circulate peti­tions this week among Notre Dame undergraduates to seek approval for an increase in its yearly subscription rate from $3.00 to $6.00. The increase is needed to offset various rising costs and lower revenues encountered by this year's staff, according to Editor-in­Chief Thomas O'Neil. 
If a majority of all under­graduates sign the petition, the increase will be included on the fall bill for the '77-'78 school year. 
Starting Monday night, petitions will be circulated in the dormitories and off-campus residences. O'Neil urges all students to sign the petition, but asked that "they sign it only once." 
The procedure of permitting the· increase based on a show of support by a majority of the undergraduates was the decision of University President Fr. Theodore Hesburgh, and the Officers of the University. The decision was made 
in response to a letter of inquiry 
sent by O'Neil to Bro. Just 
Paczesny, vice-president for stu­
dent affairs. 
The request was examined by 
the University Officers at their 
February meeting after studying a 
financial report of the Observer by 
University Auditor Lou Cohen. The 
report stated the ND-S~C daily 
will probably encounter an $18,000 
deficit this year. 
The Observer will also approach 
St. Mary's College for the increase, 
but it is not certain what procedure 
will be employed to get tnef 
increase put on the fall tuition bill. 
A decision is expected in the near 
future after talks have been com­
pleted with SMC administrators. 
Notre Dame graduate students 
will also be asked to pay the yearly subscription fee, something they have not done in the past. An · Ombudsman poll will be under­taken in the next few weeks to gauge graduate student reaction to the paper's request. H the pay­ment is made, O'Neil said news­papers will be distributed to places 
more accessible to graduate stu­dents, such as graduate student housing and the Law School. 
-Finances explained 

Financial problems in three areas have necessitated an increase in revenue for the Observer, ac­cording to O!Neil. "This year's staff inherited a $7,000 debt from last year. Also, we experienced a substantial loss of advertising re­venues this year, because we were written out of the budgets of national advertisers," he explain­ed. "Thirdly, we encountered ris­ing production costs, such as a six: percent increase in printing costs.'' 
The editor anticipates another five to seven percent increase next year. 
To offset these financial prob­lems, staff expenses were decreas­ed by $6,000 from last year, the local advertising rate was raised and the revenues from local and classified advertising were increas­ed. The Observer also negotiated with St. Mary's administrators last 
[continued on page 6] 


-----~----------­
--------------------------~------~---­
...::.t:...:h:..::e:......::o:....:b~s~e::..;r=-v.:...e:=;_;_r__---'M=:onday, February 21, 1977 
,...News Briefs----..........__. 
t============================National 
Propane explosion lights sky 
DALLAS [AP] • Two propane tankers on a freight train exploded last night, shooting fireballs into the sky. Officials said two persons were missing. 
People were evacuated from a three-square-mile area of north Dallas in case of more explosions, but dozens of motorists on a nearby freeway stopped to watch firemen fight the blaze. 
Fire officials said the Santa Fe freight train had at least two more cars loaded with propane as well as three other cars containing vinyl chloride. 

He left them· weeping 
NEW YORK [AP] • Police were searching yesterday for a phantom of the opera who left the crowd at the Met weeping--his calling card a cloud of tear gas that forced evacuation of 4000opera fans. 
Police were looKtng for a person who stok into the lobby, pulle-d the pin on an Army-type tear gas canister and set the spewing device on a moving escalator. He then made a quick escape. 

You deserve a brake today 
TOCCOA Ga. [AP} -For the regular Saturday afternoon crowd at McDonald's, it was quite a shock. 
They were waiting for their orders to be filled when a small pickup truck crashed through a side door of the building, drove through the serving area and emerged on the other side. 
Toccoa police Sgt. Terry English said no one was injured because "they heard tires squealing, looked and saw it coming. Then they jumped up against th~ counter." · 
,..On Campus Today_~ 
9:30am  workshop, work values, sponsored by student affairs, student affairs conference room  
7pm  workshop, job search, sponsored by executive board room, smc  student affairs,  
7:30pm  speaker, fr. hesburgh, fisher hall basement  
7:30pm  lecture, "united states-chinese relations after mao" by prof. hungdah chiu, univ. of maryland, sponsored by institute for international studies and asian studies center, library lounge  
7:30pm  speaker, "sacrament of reconciliation," fr. burtchaell, walsh hall chapel  
8pm  lecture, "capitalism and depression: a comparison of the 1930's with the 1970's" by leonard rapping, prof. of economics, univ. of massachusetts at amhearst, sponsored by economics dept. library aud.  
8pm  lecture, "early american philosophy" by murray murphey, univ. of pennsylvania, sponsored by philo­sophy dept, galvin aud.  
9pm  nazz, terry mchale.  

· by Jack Pizzolato Staff Reporter 

An estimated 750 to 1,000 stud­ent signatures have been collected on a petition protesting the manner in which the U.S. Congress has assured its members of a $12,900 pay raise this week. . 
The petition was circulated Frt­day evening in the North and South dining Halls, and as St. Mary's College. , 
Kevin Richardson, chairman of the College Republicans, and Paul Falduto, president of the Young Democrats, were the authors of the petition. Richardson emphasized that the signature drive was an individual effort on the part of Falduto, himself and several volun­teers and was not backed by either of the University's political clubs. 
"We' used our titles to draw bi-partisan support on this issue,:' . he said. 
The salary increases for federal employees were proposed by Pres­ident Ford on the recommendation of a special committee. Congress had 30 days to block the pay hikes, but leading democrats bottled-up the measure and prevented a direct vote. When the ·House adjourned on Friday, the proposal, which will raise the salaries of senators and representatives to $57,500 an­nually, automatically went into 
Former Observer editor joins UPS 
Tom Drape, a 1975 graduate of the University and formerly a reporter for the Kansas City Star, has joined Universal Press Syndi­cate, John P. McMeel, president of Universal Press Syndicate, has announced. 
Drape will serve as assistant to the editor and publisher, James F. Andrews. McMeel said that Drape will report to Andrews. 
Drape was a general assignment and courthouse reporter at the Star. He is a graduate of Notre Dame where he was editor-in chief of The Observer, the campus daily. He has been a stringer for Newsweek magazine for five years. 
Included among his responsi­bilities will be editing, administra­tion and collaboration with writers and artists, McMeel said. 
Drape will act in the same capacity in the UPS book publish­ing subsidiary, Sheed Andrews & McMeel, Inc. 


Levertov's poems set to music 
[continued from page 1] closed Saturday night with Denise 
Levertov, poet. An overflow crowd in the Library Auditorium listened to Levertov read several of her published and unpublished poems. 
Levertov opened her reading with ''A Marigold from Vietnam,'' written during the war in Vietnam. She then read two poems from A New Year's Garland for My Stu­dents, a series of poems which were New Year's gifts to her pupils, characterized king "Ernie" and "Richard." 
·'Seven or eight of these stu­dents are still great friends of mine." she remarked. "Four or five more, I don't know what happened to them. I'll see them again sometime, I suppose." 
During the presentation, two of . evertov's poems, were set to lance and music and were per­formed by students. The first, 
·Hymn to Eros," was sung by Lisa Eisley and accompanied on piano oy Frank Barret, the composer. 
'"he other, "0 Taste and See," was sung by Gary Dill, who was 
. D

accompamed by Vicky ill, the composer, on piano, Amy Smith on flute, and dancers, Elaine Lindow­
er and Shelley DiGirolamo. The 
' ­

dance made use of symbols com.,-.;,. • · ·· ' 
'..""L......~·..-..-.... ..'"a.:ee6o0.......-:-... a.-.... -"" -"'--~"-"'IlL...__.. ...=--=-..=-=-..=-...=-.::-:.::-_.:-:,.::-:,::-:,.::-:..:-:,.::-:._:-::,.-::...-::..-::..-::.,-::-.::-...,::-.•:-_..::-:..~-..;:-.!-.. 
mon to the deaf sign language, 
according to Vicky Dill. 
Levertov commented that while 
she often dreads hearing her poetry 
set to music, she had no complaints 
about the interpretations presented 
here. "It was heautiful," she 
Griffin to say 
Lenten masses 
in LaFortune 
Masses during the lenten sea­son, wilL be held in LaFortune beginning February 23, Ash Wed­nesday. Father Robert Griffin, the University Chaplain will celebrate the masses. which will be held Monday through Friday in the LaFortune Ballroom at 12:15 p.m. 
Tht> Obspn-er is published Monday through f-ndav and wt>t>klv during the summer session. except during tht> exam and vacation pt>nods The 
Ub>erver 1s publ1shed by students of the UnJvt>rs1ty of Notre Dame and St Mary·., College Subscnptions may be purchased for $20 per year ($10 per semester) from The Obst>r­
ver, Box Q, NotrP Dame. lnd1ana 46556 Second class postage pa1d, Notre Dame, lnd1ana 46556 
The Observer i> a membt>r of the 
A'i'ionated Pres> All rt>productJonngh!' arp rP'>ervt>d 



ND-SMC petition protesting pay raise for Congress members 
remarked. 

Levertov closed the Festival with a reading of several manuscripted poems, which have not yet been published. A reception was held after the reading in the Library Lo~nge. 
*The Observer 
Today's Theme: Smick Chicks 
Night Editor: Debbie The "Pebble" Dahrling 
Asst. Night Editor: Paula "Carroll Hall" · 
layout Staff: Laurel "Queen's Court" Shutrump, "Madele­va" Vitali, John "B.W." Cal­cutt, Marti "Gazebo" Hogan 
Editorial layout: The Chris Smith Fan Club 
Sports layout: Creg Solman 
Typists: Sue Shellenburger, Morey Blinder, Mary Ann Keefe, Leigh "Sagakan" 
E.M. T.: Karen "Chimes" Magazine Day Editor: Jack Pizzolato 
Copy Reader: Pat Cole Photographer: Leo Hansen effect.-send tne petmon, along with a 


"We weren't against the pay registered letter, to House Sp«(aker raise," Richardson said, "only the Tip O'Neill (D-Mass.). Letters way in which it was handled.'' concerning the petition will also be Reactions to the proposal varied sent to Senator Birch Bayh (D· enough that the petitioners believe Ind.), Senator Richard Luger (R­there should have been a roll call Ind.) and Representative John vote. Brademas (D-3rd District, Ind.). 
"It was a cheap shot," Richard-"We hope to show that we're son continued. "We think the mad," Falduto said. "I think they voters and taxpayers have a right to need a raise," he commented know who would have voted for or further, "But the legislators have against the pay raise." to go record and face up to their 
Richardso~ ~n~ fald!lt~ pl~n to constituencies." ·· 

Chimes 
St. Mary's literary magazine 
, T ---­

now accepting submit c/o W estler stories, 
310 Madeleva St. Mary's
poems, plays, 
deadline: 
art, photos 
March 9. 

«£here IS a difference!!! 
PREPARE FOR: 


GMAT • GRE • OCAT CPAT ·VAT ·SAT 
Our broad range of programs provides an umbrella of test­ing know-how that enables us to offer the best preparation available, no matter which course is taken. Over 38 years of experience and success. Small classes. Voluminous home study materials. Courses that are constantly up­dated. Permanent centers open days & weekends all year. Complete tape facilities for review of class lessons and for use of supplementary materials. Make-ups for missed les­sons at our centers. 
ASK ABOUT OUR COMPACT COURSES 
20~0 W. Devon ~ ~-+1 
Ch1cago, Ill. 60645~ IUIPUIN. 
(312) 764 5151

-EDUCATIONAl CENTER 
Outside NY State Onlv CALL TOLL FREE 
TEST PREPARATION
Boo 221 9840

" " SPECIALISTS SINCE 1q3h 
PREPARE FOR THE 
NEW . MCAT WHERE 
THERE IS ALWAYS A 
TUESDAY, MARCH 8 -8 P.M . 
MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM SOUTH BEND, IND. RESERVED SEATS $6, $5,$4 NOW ON SALE AT AUDITORIUM BOX-OFFICE 11 AM TOS PM SPECIAL STUDENT DISCOUNT -$1.00 OFF WITH THIS AD PR~ENTWHEN BUYING.TICKETW,.H YOUR STUDENT I.D. 

·­


~------------~~--------~-----------------------------------------~---~,----~~ ~ 
----~~------------------------------~--~--~~~~..... 
3

Monday, February 21, 1977 the observer 



Benedikt's love poems highlight SLF program
. 
by Bob Varettonl Staff Reporter 

Michael Benedikt, poet and editor, added humor and some "insanity" to the Sophomore Literary Festival Friday afternoon in the Memorial Library Auditor­ium. 
Combining improbable images, puns, and slapstick, Benedikt en­tertained the audience of 150 with his informal reading. His playful style, he said, developed in reac­tion to the pessimism he found everywhere else when he started to write. 
"In the '60's," Benedikt said "it was in fashion to disagree with everything. But if you disapprove 
The Ice Capades drew crowds to the ACC from Feb. 17-20. Along with 7 feature skaters, the Ice Capades hosted many cartoon characters, enchanting the younger audience. [photo by Leo Hansenl 
SMC seniors discuss trip petition 
by Karen IDnks 

Concerned St. Mary's seniors, met Sunday evening to discuss the continuing controversy over the senior class trip rebate. 
The meeting, held in the Little Theatre at St. Mary's was attended by only fifteen seniors from a total of 125 women who attended the class trip in November. 
Cindy Callahan, senior class president, explained that the re­bate was made to both Notre Dame and St. Mary's senior classes because a chartered plane was originally scheduled to leave New York and arrive in Los Angeles. Students attending the trip were charged for the charter's departure and eventual arrival in California. It was later decided by the travel company that such an arrangement was not necessary. The company then refunded the extra money to both senior classes. 
''The real question at hand is not whether we (students) should get the money back, but who does the money actually belong to," Calla­han stated. "The class officers and our Advisors feel that the money legally belongs to the Senior class." 
The total amount of money rebated to the St. Mary's senior class is approximately $2,000. Each SMC senior who attended the 
-· 

of everything that happens, you ultimately dislike people. and you should stop living." 
The main part of the reading featured Benedikt's surrealistic love poems, "To Persuade a Lady," "Metering" and "How to Make Love to an Older Woman". Benedikt claimed this style was more realistic than the "unimagin­ative" love poetry of the 17th century. 
"You may think my poems are anti-love poems," Benedikt said, "but I think of the nature of love as being the natire of playfulness. I'm not attacking love, I'm participat­ing in it." 
One highlight was Benedikt's reading of "Passing Through Troy", a poem about Troy, New 
trip would receive approximately 
$15. "We are only trying to be 
consistent," Callahan stressed. 
"We charged an amount of money we felt would be sufficient. We made money from the trip by accident. It was nothing we could 
have anticipated." 
Callahan explained that in the past, the class sponsored activities with the intent of breaking even. If the event lost money, the class absorbed the loss. If the activity made a profit, the money was used for class functions. 
"A perfect example of our principle is the sophomore parent's weekend," Callahan stated. "We charged the parents $25. The money was used for the various planned activities. As it turned out, we made approximately 1200. $1,000 was given to the new athletic building." 
Other class officers discussed that the class has not always been fortunate enough to make money. Colette Morfoot, senior class secretary, cited the senior class picnic, held in September, as a money-losing project. "The senior class had to absorb $1,000 in loses," she said. "We did not call everyone who attended to pay more money. It was the responsibility of the class treasury to meet the cost of the class-sponsored activity." 
Th~ class officers also explained York. In what he called an "urban renewal lyric poem", Benedikt described Troy as the place where "the young gentlemen sit on curbstones and spit on-buses." 
"Get the children of America out of Troy, New York," the poem began. "The ugliness of Troy may be transcended--move out ... per­haps, to Athens, Georgia." 
Benedikt named another poem "Maiming the Baby". He said if you give a baby a name , you also give it a fate. 
"Oswald," Benedikt read, "will shoot the president. Cliff will hurt his head by falling off some rocks. 
Franklin  will  have  a  four  term  
presidency,  and  then  a  cerebral  
hemmorage."  

Other highlights were Benedikt's 
Observer 

meeting tonight 
There will be a brief but' mandatory meeting for all members of the Observer to­night at 7 p.m. in the ·observer offices of the fourth floor of Lafortune. 


Charles speaks to freshmen 
by Chris Datzman 
Staff Reporter 
Dr. Isabelle Charles, dean of the 

and Letters College, will speak to freshmen interested in the college tonight at 7:30p.m. 
The speech, , part of the Fresh­

Year of Studies "Spotlight Program", will inform the students about the different areas of study and the advantages of a liberal arts education. 
Charles explained that a liberal arts education has the advantage 
that of other colleges of preparing a student for life. "Freshmen shouldn't be afraid of 
fact that some Liberal Arts students are walking the streets jobless these days,'' she said. 
After an introduction by Charles, Assistant Deans Richard Thompson and Robert Waddick will speak about the courses and programs offered in the College of Arts and Letters and the opportuni­
they provide. After the presentation there will be a ques­tion and discussion session. The meeting will be held in Room 127 of the Niewland Science Building and all freshmen are invited to attend. 
almost $200 was lost on the 
recently-held Senior class dinner. 
''We didn't arbitrarily make the decision to withhold the rebate," Callahan stated. "The final deci­sion was made by the four SMC class officers, Notre Dame class officers, senior advisory council, John Reid, assistant director of student activities and Stevie Wernig, assistant dean of student Jlffairs. " 
"We as an elected body feel that if we were to refund the money, we would be going against any princi­ple we have ever established," Callahan said. "If we really wanted to be fair, only those :ZOO students who were on the chartered plane should receive the rebate and divide the $7,700 between them­selves. 
Alternative use for the money was discussed. The money, if it were to be put into the class treasury, would benefit graduation activities such as the senior cocktail party. Morfoot pointed out that the money could be used in assisting another senior picnic to be held during Senior Week. Otherwise, each student would be reque_sted to pay 50 cents per beer. 
Concerned students who attend­ed encouraged those interested in receiving the rebate to sign a petition by Wed. Feb. 23. In order [continued on page 7] 
versions of "Fred, the Neat Pig" wanted to try toextractpoetry out ot and "Cities", his "one and a half dead language." page epic poem". He ended with Benedikt added that, with his this "most philosophical" poem, most recent work, he has turned "The Olympic Footsie." again to writing verse. 
Bnedikt-read chronologically Besides his four books of poetry, from his four books of poems. In Benedikt has edited two antholo­his early poetry, Benedikt said he gies, one one surrealism and one was primarily experimenting with on prose poetry. He has also different verse styles. With his last translated collections of modem two books, Benedikt turned to French, Spanish, and German prose poetry. drama. He is presently poetry 
"This book is full of lots of editor of The Paris Review, and a boring langauge,'' Benedikt said of professor at Vassar College in New Mole Notes, his third book. "I York. 

senior trip picture night 


senior bar 
Tues. Feb. 22 8-1 Bring your pictures from the California Trip Drink Specials Beer $.30 Frisco Sour 50 cents California Lemonade _ 
are you......... 
~ot Baptized and interested in becoming a Christi.an? Baptized and interested in becoming a Roman Catholic? Baptized Catholic and interested in receiving the sacrament of Confirmation? 
Baptized Catholic and interested in learning more about your religion? for information please contact the : 
NOTRE DAME CATECHUMENATE 
at Campus Ministry Campus Ministry West Memorial Library aiJ Badin Hall 
283-6536 ~~ 283-3820 
~­


NOTRE DAME STUDENT UNION & SUNSHINE PROMOTIONS PRESENT 
RICK DERRINGER and JOURNEY 
MON04Y, FEBRU4RY 28 7:30 P.M. NOTRE 04ME A.C.C. Tickets: $6.50, $6.00 & $5.00 
ON S.O..f t'CN AT A C C lOX OffiCI ROIERTSCWS SOUTH Nf«l ono CONCOIIO Mottl ST JOE M« lo A.l IIMNCHfS fiRST aM« -""""' ~H ONl ¥ IRI.flH NOTRI O.Wf StuOfNT UNION TICIUT OHICf IIOOGif lltCOIIOS !HE QfCORO ~SPINOID CORO '" llKHMII • GOSHIN !YidMIIfCOfK>JOINIII'INtUS 


-~-----. --~~------------------------~------------------------------~----.------­
EDITORIAL BOARD




~*The Observer 
Thomas O'Neil Editor-in-Chief

anindependentstudentnewspaper 
Dan Sanchez Managing Editorserving notre dame and st. mary's Chris Smith I Asst Managing Ed. 

The Observer is published by students of the University of Cregg Bangs , Executive Editor Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. It does not necessarily Val Zurblis Executi""' Editor reflect the policies of either institution. The news is reported Pat Hanifin Editorial Editor as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials Tim O'Reiley Features Editor 
represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Bob Mader Exec. News Editor Commentaries, opinions and letters are the views of their Maureen Flynn Campus Editor authors. Column space is available to all members of 'the Marti Hogan St. Mary's Editor community, and letters are encouraged to promote the free Kathy Mills News Editor expression of varying opinions on campus. Barb Breitenstein News Editor 
Don Reimer Copy Editor
Box Q

Business Manager Tom Fronczak Martha L. Fanning Production Editor Notre Dame
Advertising Manager Mike Miller Fred Herbst Sports Editor Photo Editor Tony Chifari Ind. 46556 Tom Byrne Contributing Editor 
Monday, February 21, 1977 

Please Sign 

the greatest majority of seniors who get involved in Senior Class activities subsidized by the Class Fund the same ones who were on the trip? 
As far as this is concerned the only ones who would really not benefit from the money being kept in the Class Fund would be the fifteen or so juniors who went along. They should get their ~oney back. 
And if people who weren't on the trip would benefit from the $5700, what's wrong with a little Christian charity? I once read in some ancient history book that that's what the brotherhood of Notre Dame was all about. 
Personally, whether I get any money back or not doesn't really matter much (although if everyone else gets an $8 rebate I doubt I'll refuse mine). The $8 was part of something I spent and never ex­pected to see again. As far as I'm concerned, the good times I had and the memories I'll treasure of being with good friends in the California sun are· worth a value many, many times more expensive than any amount I could ever dream of paying. My only concern in this issue is that we think the thing through and come up with the 
best  alternative,  not the  most  
obvious one.  
Sincerely,  

Dan D'Antonio 
Trip Again 
Dear Editor: 

As insolvent members of the Class of 77 who participated in the Southern Cal Trip, we would like to express our outrage at the flagrant abuse of responsibility recently demonstrated by the Senior Class officers and the Senior Advisory Council. The money they so generously donated as a "gift" to the treasury was never theirs to give. 
When we entered into an agree' ment with the senior class, it was understood that we were to pay for the cost of the trip. If the price of airline tickets had been increased, we would have b-een required to pay for the increased cost. We definitely would not have expected the class treasury to pay fur our vacation. It should reasonably follow, to any fair-minded person, that any decrease in cost should entitle the trip members, and not the entire class, to a rebate. 
The most disturbing part of the decision to put all the money in the dass tgreasury was not the amount 
WHAT elSe? I MeAN, WHO KNe/AJ FROM MlWICIPAL­80NfJS IN THOSC 
fJAYS, R/6HT? Tl?l/5•. 
!Til/A5AU 
PR&TTYNEW / THeN•• 

of money' a paltry little sum of 
$5700. nor even the fact that it was 
ours, but rather the method used to 
reach a decision. For all the debate 
and thought that supposedly went 
into the decision, there wasn't 
much publicity. In fact, the article 
in The Observer that informed us of 
our new . altruism was the first 
public statement to come out. 

Although we appreciate the problems of high finance, we object to the coercive methods used to collect funds. It seems grossly inequitable that the participants in the trip should involuntarily fund class activities for the % of the class who stayed home. If the class needs money in order to finance further activities, it should collect money from participants in each activity or from the class as a whole. 
Yours in Unexpected Philanthropy, 
hngh Sonk Mike Settle Jack Moran 
And Again 
Dear Editor: 

However I believe the money should remain in the Senior Class Fund with the exception of the junior's share who should receive their money. The whole, some $5700, will work more for the people on the trip ir1 the aggregate than divided up into 700 or so equal parts. Many excellent activities could be organized for those people like myself who .went on the trip as well as those who were unable to make it. 
Another belief that rebate bac-/ kers may have is that they would be footing the bill for others that did not pay for any of the Senior Class activities. Maybe! am too idealistic but I thought that we considered ourselves part of the Notre Dame family. Moreover, we are supposed to believe in a little charity toward ' others. Most certainly the mon~y will benefit fellow seniors we do not know but it is only our fault that in four years we do _not know every­one. 
Are we so selfish and self-cen­tered to put $8 abQve the good of ALL our classmatts? l certainly hope not because I have more respect and concern for the people here at Notre Dame that I have been so fortunate to meet and live with for the past four years. If $8 means that much to the seniors I feel sorry for them and for myself for believing in people here more than I shouid have. 
BID Coyle Class o£1977 
The Observer is going broke. If we do not get a subscription rate increase, the paper will have to reduce publication • considerably or even go out of business. To get this necessary increase, we need the signatures of a majority of the Notre Dame undergraduates on a petition. 
The paper's poor financial shape is due to rising costs, falling advertising revenues and debts left from previous years. Printing costs rose 6 percent this year and will rise 5-7 percent next year. Other costs such as photographic supplies, typesetting materials and office equipment have risen even more. The generally weak economy has caused many national advertisers to reduce their volume of advertising. The Observer has been in debt for several years, with this year's figure projected to exceed $15,000. 
We have cut staff expenses by $6,000, persuaded St. Mary's students to pay subscription fees, raised advertising rates, and increased local and classified advertis­ing. But this has not been enough. 
So, we are asking you to agree to pay $6 a year O.ess than the cost of one football ticket) for this newspaper. Since The Observer is published about 120 times per year, you would pay a nickel an issue, which is what the paper first cosf 10 years ago when it was sold in the dining halls. The subscription charge would be 
added to the tuition bill sent to your parents. 
To secure your approval, Observer staff members will be coming around in the next few days to get your signatures. Feel free to question them about the paper's condition. 
Notre Dame is the smallest university in the country to support a daily newspape~ and it does so without a journalism department or funding from the Univer­sity. The Observer is owned and run by students, independent of the University Administration. But the paper's indepen­dence is possible only if it can pay its own way. A student medium paid for by the administration is subject to administrative control, as the WSND censorship demon­strated last semester. 
Despite occasional mistakes on our part, and even some first-class bloopers, The Observer has been an important source of information ana a community forum for more than 10 years. Now, we need your help. Please sign The Observer petition. · 

alism. Responsible journalism Tripper, was pleased, if not happy, attempts to represent the truth. with the idea of putting $8 into my 
· Wernig Post 
. Dear Editor: wallet. It's an accepted fact that 
I am writing in reference to Kathleen M. Rice Mr. Koslow talks about the Thursday's (Feb. 17) article enti­Dean of Student Affairs responsiveness (or lack of) of our tled "Wernig to leave dissolved class officers. How about giving SMC post." Editor's Note: Our reporter, SMC them a chance to be responsive by 
I object to the negative tone of editor Marti Hogan, stands by the providing the seniors involved with the article. The interview with the accuracy of her story. some alternatives? Before we run Observer reporter was positive, yet off to collect our checks, why don't statements represented in the we give Rob Tully and his crew a
Senior Trip
article were negative and taket:J. out chance to draw up a budget to show of context. Dear Editor: what kind of services he can 
The article did not represent the provide us if the Class Fund keeps positive contribution that Stevie When I read Chris Koslow's the $5700. Wernig has made to Saint Mary's "Letter to the Editor" in Wed­For those of you who feel that the College. I seriously question the nesday's Observer I must admit $5700 should be used only by the Observer's appeal to sensation-that at first i, being a Senior people who paid for the trip I ask 

------~~-------------~-~~---------. -­
' ~----~~----------------------------~~­

Delano Lewis 
Hesburgh to· receive NCEA award Apr. 12 
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, University president, will receive the C. Albert Koob Award of the National Catholic Educational Association (NCEA) Apr. 12 at the organization's r.nnual convention in San Francisco. 
NCEA's highest honor, the award is presented to individuals ''who through long service of outstanding achievement have con­tributed nationally to Catholic Edu­cation in America." 
One of the .presidents of major American universities longest in office, Father Hesburgh is in his 25th year as head of Notre Dame. His career illustrated the many­faceted role of a contemporary leader in American education, a role which highlights the in­creasingly interrelated areas of 
education, government ana puouc 
affairs. 
Most recently, he was elected chairman of the Rockefeller Foun­dation and named a personal advisor to President Carter. He also helped found "New Directions", a nonpartisan organi­zation formed to work for inter­national concerns, and chaired a year-long study of relief for Viet­nam-era military and draft offenders. 
Rev. Andrew Greely and Sister Kathleen Short. O.P., executive director of the NCEA's Elementary Department, also will receive the Koob A ward this year. 
The NCEA as founded in 1904 to promote and encourage the prin­ciples and ideals of Christian education. 
IRS provides helpful tax hints 
' 

The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) offers several points of advice for those individuals filing-their income tax returns for 1977. 
First, it's essential that you have/ the necessary tax forms and schedules on hand. If you filed a return last year, then the IRS sent you a tax package in the mail 
-containing not only tax forms and schedules you'll probably need, but also some valuable instructions. Tax forms and instructions are also available from IRS offices and at many banks and local Postal Service stations. 
Second, read the instructions. They can not only save you time as well as effort, but also, in some cases. money because you may become aware of a deduction ot exemption to which you are en­titled. 
And if your taxable income is not over $20,000, a new tax table enables you to determine your t~x at a glance, without making the calculations required by the tax rate schedules. You must use the tax table is your taxable income in not over $20,000, whether you itemize deductions or use the standard deduction:" 
If you think it might be to yot~r advantage to itemize deductions, have your expense records on hand, such as medical and dental bills, real estate taxes, State in­come tax, home mortgage interest, and charitable contributions. It would pay you to double check the instructions to find out just· what types of expenses you can deduct. 
I 

When preparing you return, make sure you use the mailing label on the forms sent out by the IRS. Correct any name or address changes right on the label. Using the label can help to avoid ·errors and also speed ):lrocessing for the IRS and delivery of any refund due you. 
For the taxpayer owing tax', attach a check or money order for full payment when filing. The check should b~ made out to "Internal Revenue Service" and it's advisable to put your Social Security number on the check incase it becomes detached during processing. ~ This way the money found in the . tax package. This also will be credited to your account. -speeds processing of 
Go over all items and make sure they are correct. Double check the arithmetic and see to it that the return is signed --two signatures are required on a joint return. A4so, be certain you have attached e'(erything -W-2's from all your 
jobs,  schedules,  and  a  check  if  
there is a tax liability.  
Finally,  ·after  double  checking  

everything, the taxpayer mails his return in the preaddressed coded envelope provided by the IRS and 
ND­SMC THEATER 
$2.50 ($2 Std, Fac) 

•• ""'iiiill l 
Monday, February 21, 1977 the observer 5 
Telephone executive givesadvice 
by Pat Cole Senior Staff Reporter 
Delano Lewis, the assistant vice­president for revenue requirements and public affairs at C and P Telephone Co. in Washington, D.C., spoke to a group of students last Friday night in the Library Auditorium. Lewis gave advice to students on career plans. 
He emphasized that students must go beyond what they have to do to become good at a skill. B_eing black, he said to the audience, you have to make your skills 1\bove average which is the most import­ant thing. 
Lewis; who has a law degree from Washburn University in To­peka, Kansas, suggested that a good way to prepare for law school is to establish a broad background by studying a variety of topics, particularly concentrating on En­glish. He also said a bachelor's 
Provost to speak on Reconciliation 
Fr. James Burtehaell will deliver a short talk on the Right of Reconciliation this evening at 7:30 
p.m. in the Walsh Hall chapel. "rhe liturgy committee of Walsh invites all interested students and . faculty to attend. 
A question and discussion period on the sacrament will follow the provost's presentation, and re­freshments will be served after­wards. Participation is encouraged in preparation for Lent and to acquaint university members with the new Right of Penance. 
up your return. Remember to affix the proper postage to the envelope. Otherwise the return will be sent back to you. 
If you move after filing your 

~return and are expecting a refund, you should notify both the post office serving your old address and the service center where you filed the return ofthe change in address. 
Be sure to include your Social Security number on any correspon­dence with the IRS. · 
THEY 
Polish playwright Stanislaw Witkiewicz' drama of contemporary man's paranoia. 
feb. 25, 26, Mar: 3,4,5 
at8:00 p.m. 
. 

degree should be supplemented Administrative Assistant to the with graduate study. Honorable Walter E. Fauntroy Lewis is a graduate of the from 1969 to 1972. University of Kansas. He was a 
Lewis also emphasized that ed­Presidential Nominee for the Bar ucation has been a path out of the Association in 1963. He served as ghetto for blacks. ConcerningDeputy Chief of the Analysis and tokenism, he said he ''would not be Advice Section of the Equal Em­what I am today" if he did not have ployment Opportunity Commission the ability to do his job. 

form 1965 to 1966. He also served as Deputy Director of the Office of The presentatiOn by Lewis was Volunteer Placement for Minority part of the second week of events Recruitment, Legislative Assistant for the 1977 Notre Dame Black to Senator Edward Brooke and Cultural Arts Festival. 
~*****************'*" 
~· [ll] ~
presents

~1nema 77 Th 0 . . 1 ~ 
~ e ngma ~ ~ Tuesday ~ -~e 7:3o. to p.m. ICING t 
~Engine~rii_Ig Aud. ICONGt t.~i~~~~~*********** 
, 

w 
Interested in the LAW? ... and in a career? Consider your opportunities as a 
LAWYER'S ASSISTANT 
You may qualify for this intensive, 12 
SD 
week, post-graduate course offered by the UNIVERSITY OF SAN DIEGO in cooperation With the National Center for 
Paralegal Training. 
By specializing in one of the following fields -Litiga­tion; Estates, Trusts and Wills; or Corporations and Real Estate -you can prepare yourself for a responsi­ble position as a skilled member of the legal team. 
For a free· brochure regarding application procedures, program dates, financial aid, employment opportunities, please send the atta'ched to: 
,UNIVERSITY OF SAN DIEGO Room 318, Serra Hall Lawyer's Assistant Program San Diego, CA 92110 (714) 291-6480 Ext. 247 
Name _________________________________ 
Address_________________--' 
________State____.Zip ____ 
Phone_______ June 13-Aug. 26 
Summer 1977-Day D 

Fall1977-Day 0 Fall .1977 -Evening Sept. 26-Dec. 16. Sept. 15 -March 18 D~ 
Spring 1978 -Day D Spring 1978 -Evening Feb. 20-May 12 March 21 -Sept. 2 D 

~••••••••••••••••••·.~~-,-~-~-~-~-'-~-~-~-~~~-'-~-~-~-~-~-~-~-~-~~--~-'-,-~-~-~t 
~· . 

I. 
'• 
t 


~·-~------~~--~-~'-•'!~'-----------~~o~n~d~a~y~,~F~e~b~ru~a~r~y~2~1~,~1~9~77~
~-· 
Chemical spill in Ohio river traced to W.Va. 
LOUISVILLE, Ky. [AP] ·Traces of carbon tetrachloride were detected here yesterday in the Ohio River but officials said the 70-ton mass posed no threat to water supplies. 
The spill, traveling downstream from Ohio and West Virginia, apparently lost some of its strength said Jerry Ford, a spokesman for the Louisville Gas and Electric Co. 
"Our monitoring devices showed the carbon tet concentration level­ed off at 21 parts per billion parts of water, far less than some points up the Ohio," he explained. 

Ford said the maximum safe level is SO parts per billion and "we've been adding an absorbent chemical to our supplies as a precautionary measure." 
Carbon tet can damage the liver and kidnevs and has been known to cause cancer in laboratory animals, but Ford said there was no need for residents to boil their drinking water. 
"Our counteracting agent is working very well. We should be in good shape," he said. 
Ford said the "slug could take several days to move out of here and on down the river toward Evansville." 
The carbon tet was discovered last Friday while U.S. Environmen­tal Protection Agency officials were making a routine check of water supplies in the Cincinnati area. 

Gordon Robeck, the EPA water supply research division director at cincinnati, said it was lucky the mass was spotted. 
Robeck said the slug is just one of many that have slipped unde­tected down the Ohio River for years. 
He also reported that water in the Cincinnati area had developed a smell and bad tast several weeks ago. 
"It was a chemical industrial smell," he explained. "It wasn't too offensive when it was served cold, but you noticed it when you heated it." 
The source of the latest spill has been traced to a plant somewhere along a 20 mile stretch of the Kanawha River valley in Charles­ton, W.Va. 
There are two manufacturers of carbon tetrachloride in the area: an FMC Corp. at South Charleston and a Diamond-Shamrock Corp. plant at Belle. 
"We absolutely haven't had any spill at our plant," said Jim Mays, plant manager for Diamond-Sham­rock. 
William Currey, a spokesman for FMC Corp., said there was no way of determining if his company was responsible.. He said the company was conducting its own investig igation. 
EPA officials indicated legal action would be taken against those responsible.. 
Two Ken1tucky river towns, Ash­land and Maysville, showed little concern when ,the chemical spill 
ND-ISMC THEATRE 
TRYOUTS 
FIDDLER ON THE ROOF 
Sunday, Feb. 27, 5-9 pm Monday, Feb. 28, 7-10 pm 0' Laughlin Auditorium 
singers-dan~ers-actors 
by Appointment Only Call284--4141 Audition Materials Avail­able SIPDR Off. Rm. 110 Moreau (SMC) SPDR Off. Washington Hall (NO) OPEN TO ALL ND-SMC STUDENTS 
reached their areas. 

One restaurant in Ashland did not serve water to customers unless they requested it. 
"We have some boiling if they want it," said the manager, Mrs. Erva Forsythe, adding that not many people did. 
One health official in Ashland said water samples were being sent to Frankfort and "I'm sure they will yield little or no carbon tetrachloride." 
Larry Jacobs, a grocer, said his custom!rts talked about the water problem ''kind of bouncing it back and forth but they don't seem upset." 
"It's not like it was when they said that blizzard was coming four or five weeks ago," said Jacobs. "Everybody went nuts on that." . 
DINNERFOR2 
Ask for the SALOON, our marinated 9-1/? oz. top sirloin, mixed green salad with your choice of dressing, baked potato, coffee or tea and 1/2 liter of our house wine. 
$10.00 
Monday/Tuesday 
'Doc. 'P'sen:e~ BfZoon 
120 N M.1111 St M1shawaka. tnd Phone 255-7737 
Observer rate 
hike petition 

[continued from page ll year to make the Obs~rver fee a mandatory item on ~:tuition bill, increasing the paper~ income by about $4,000. St. Mary's students had previously paid for the paper on a voluntary basis. 
"Our present financial trouble is in no way a reflection of financial mismanagement," O'Neil said "We cut expenses and increased revenues where ~e could. Now we must ask for a fee increase and help from grad students to keep the paper financially alive." 
"Should students decide not to support these measures, I'm afraid we're in for hard times," he continued. "The Observer may be forced to publish on an irregular basis, or_ may even be forced to close_ down entirely." 
"Presently we're trying to get a loan to ke~p publishing this semes­ter," ·he said. "In the meantime, we're making financial projections, to give us a blueprint for the futu·re." 
There will be '.a mandatory Ob­server staff meetihg at 7:00 tonight at the office, top floor of LaFortune Student Center. Petitions for the fee increase will be handed out at this meeting for distribution. Anyone wishing to help gather signatures is urged to attend. 
ELO tickets on sale Tuesday 
Tickets for the Electric Light Orchestra concert on Friday, Mar. 25 will go on sale at the Student Union ticket office on the third floor of LaFortune tomorrow at 9 a.m. Tickets will also be sold at the ACC ticket office. 
Student Union Ticket Office Manager Chris McCabe gave some suggestions and rules for· the students who will be waiting in line for tickets at the SU Office: 
--Persons 'must remain in line continuously. --Roll calis will be made period­ically, but not at set times. --Fifteen minutes notice will be given prior to taking roll. 

--Roll call list and persons taking roll must be authorized by the ' Student Union. ' 
·-Missing a roll call removes a person from the list (no exceptions). 
--Substitutes should check with the list manager to avoid problems. 
--The Student Union reserves the right to check the list and to void the list. 
The SU regulations will be followed a the Student Union Ticket Office only. 



FREE 
February 23 5:00 South Dining Hall 

Monday, February 21, 1977
Gaudreau elected president the observer 
NO's involvement in national AlA increases 
would. investigate worthwhile top­noted that the Department of ics which would enhance student Architecture, being the largest understanding of architecture and department in the College of
Al-Anon meets Wed. nights 
its various fields. Other academic Engineering, doesn't receive suf­endeavors that will be pursued ficient funds that should be ap­
Al-Anon, a fellowship for friends the group. "Alcoholism affects The only requirement for mem­consist of a student "crit'' prog­propriated to it.
and family of alcoholics, has begun everybody in the family," John bership is that the student have ram, aimed at providing a max­Gaudreau also cited the un­meetings at Notre Dame. The explained. "Just as an alcoholic been in some way affected by imum of feedback concerning the involvement of underclassmen as"guaranteed anonymous" group must de-toxify himself, we must alcoholism,· whether that be a students work, and a program with another important concern of themeets every Wednesday night at learn to detoxify our emotions." member of their family or a friend. 
representatives from each class program, due in part to a commun­
6:45p.m. The group guarantees anonymity that can voice arising problems and ication gap that exists betweenAl-Anon meets once a week to and uses only first names. Anyone
The group grew out of Alcoholics opinions to the faculty. . under and upperclassmen because
"work on ourselves," John said. interested in joining the Al-Anon
Anonymous (AA) meetings here, In charge of business affairs, of the junior study program in
Members use the same principles can call John at 3185 ot Peggy at
according to John C., a member of social gatherings, and fund raising Rome.
and the "12 steps" of AA." 8809. 
by Steven Gray 

The American Institute of Arch­itecture (AlA), a nation-wide or­ganization that coordinates various activities for architecture depart­ments of many universities and colleges across the country, pro­vides unique academic and social opportunities for its members. 
The ambition of the organization is to unite architectural students, to combine their efforts with the hope of promoting standards of ed­ucational development, and to in­itiate training for careers while students are completing their un­dergraduate studies. 
The Notre Dame chapter of the AlA, with the recent election of campus officials, intends to in­crease Notre Dame's involvement with the national organization, as well as to 'stimulate more student 
interest with the program here on campus. · 

Bill Gaudreau, newly-elected president, said that the aim of the Notre Da_me chapter is to involve all architectural students in the prog­ram here on campus. 
As president, Gaudreau acts in the capacity of director in charge of regional and national development. 
His job will be to acquaint the Architecture Department here at Notre Dame with current trends that might help with the students' preparation for careers and to pursue all available information, activities, and funds on the national level. 
Jake Schneider, vice-president, will be in charge of all the academic affairs in the program. Besides initiating a tutorial program for freshmen and sophomores, Schneider intends to start a weekly seminar for underclassmen that activities will be Treasurer Brian Brady and Secretary Mark Cipos. Under their direction, services such as an architecture newspaper, ski trips, the Beaux Arts Ball, athletic tournaments, class trips, ·student­teacher receptions, exhibitions and sales of student works ·and the sponsoring. of guest speakers will be provided. 
One of the major problems facing the program here on campus is the lack of initial funds. Gaudreau 
SMC senior trip discussion 
[conti!lued from page 3] 
for the rebate to be given, two­
thirds of the students who attended 
the trip must sign the petitton. The 
petition can be signed at 227 
LeMans, Campus Vies or Nick'ie's. 
"If by Wednesday, less than 
two-thirds of the students have 
signed the petition, the money will 
automatically be placed into the 
class treasury," Callahan said. "If 
the people who elected us feel 
we've made a mistake in our 
decision, we'll do as they wish." 
r-uo:-;to"71 
1 Heaven I 
I.2 Days to Helll
1::------­
NOTICES 

LIFE IN THE SPIRIT seminar begins Feb. 22. Call Tom at 289­4691 or 7651. 
WOULD YO BE INTERESTED IN GETTING YOUR MARVELS AND DC'S TWO WEEKS EARLIER THAN ANYWHERE ELSE? FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL BOB 233-0966 FROM 9-12AM MON­WED AND FRI. OR RAY 7278 FROM 6-10PM WED, THURS AND 9-SSAT. 
Neat Accurate typing of term papers and manuscripts. Call 287-5162. 
Accurate, Fast typing. Mrs. Dono­ho. 232-0746. Hours--8 am to 8 pm 
USED BOOKS. BOOK BARN 1 mile north of Notre Dame. 272-5520 
Will teach you flute in your:: spare time. Call Beth 8112. 
NEED TYPING? Executary Inc. Professional Typing Service. 85 cents a page 232-0898 
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND $20-150. 1 day wait, 1 percent interest. ue in 30 days. LaFortune Basement M-F ll :15-12:15 
FOR RENT 

5 Bedroom house, good condition, renting tor tall or large room tor summer.. Walk to campus. Call 259-7488 after s. 
4 Bedrooms, living room, dining room, kitchen. Utilities paid. $100 per month. Call Oscar 233-1850 
3 . room furnished house within walking distance of campus. Rent and utilities. One-half block from Campeau st. Call 232-8563. 
Two bedroom house to rent. Sum­mer and or school year. 1012 Eddy Street. $120 month plus utilities. Call Oddies Harris at 232-8563. 
LOST AND FOUND 

Lost at SMC Clubhouse Monday. '78 class ring. Call Kevin 1744. 
Stereo Scene Pre-Inventory Tax Clearance  AN TOSTAL  
and Demo Sale SAVINGS  Organizational Meetings  
10-50%  Every Tuesday  
We Will Not Be  9:00pm  
Undersold Sale Ends Weds.,, Feb. 23  LaFortune Ballroom  
PHONE 287-1400  THE STEREO  SMC  
3302 MISHAWAKA AVE. SOUTH BEND, INDIANA  SCENE  WELCOME  

FOUND: single key marked Taylor O'C, Theysay that all good things X-7. Found In SEcornerof near D-2. The crack of dawn was in danger, must come to an end and I knew it
Classified Ads Karen M. 
Phone 1251--Chris. but Terry Riley took care of that. was too good to be true this year. Now I'm all alone. Mosely More You've really helped hundreds of
TELEPHOTO LENS: 200 mm f 3.5

Someone left a calculator at Darby's pepper ~eople this year through your dedi­
Soligor T-4 with mount for Nik<.,n,

Place Thursday night--If you can cation at Sat. Rec., your smile and
Nikkormat. lncluses sun shaged and

identify it call Mike Cleary at Dear Patty, Kerrie, Mel, Debby and happiness at the nursing home and
Tifferf UV filter. $100 Can be

7735--Leave a message. Beth your-enthusiasm for basketball with
adapted to Canon, Minolta, Pentax,

WANTED the retarded kids! If it wasn't for you
Olympus, etc. with a T-4 mount. 

Forgive me. What with your five I'd still be cranking out formulas inPrice without Nikon mount: $90.
3 GA Tix to San Fran sci co. Will Pay pairs o,f sad eyes, your five minute engineering and looking tor a pur­
Call 1845, ask for Tony.

Top$$. C<;tll283-8863. white mustaches, your six rabbit pose in life. Now, thanks to your 
noses and all that extra luggage that help, understanding, and concern, WANTED: 2 GA Tix to San Francis­you carry around with you, I must I'm able to stand on my own two teet
;--P~i~--~t-2:\N~-~-w~l~-~t--Ei~~-k~h~-,t 
Speakers, lftxll/4 ft. $40, Phone

co. Call 1279. have been so mad with desire that Who would have beleived that you
289-8098 

something so trivial as a Valentine would get into med school after onlyNeed ride to Chicago--Feb 25. Call greeting in THE OBSERVER just 3 years? 1 knew from the start that 
4-4819. Laura '68 Olds Vista Cruiser A-1 condition; 
slipped my busy mind. So Happy your determination, hard work, and --------------------------~----'----------------67,000 miles. $750.00 or otter. Bill Valentine's Day. It may be a week enthusiasm would pay off in the long
after 9 pm, 233-1993.

W NATED: Rides to Ft. Lauderdale late and I know you will probably run. Congratulations on your med 
tor break. Call Brian 1589 or 1516 PERSONALS. never cook me diriner (thank God) school acceptance, and you deserv­Dave-but I know that in your large hearts ed it! Need a ride to Ft. Lauderdale tor Thanks again tor the cookies! --the and small minds, you will forgive me Your Indy friend, Koebs 
Spring Break. Will share driving gang from W aterhole, Tx. someday. After all, I'm so cute. and expense Call Pat 1514. Three Boxers once came to DuLac love, Drew Feeling depressed? Nd-SMC hotline Against Bengals they, made their 4-4311 open nights.WANTED: Rug--12x14 Call 4-4122 
attacks dear Dave Childers,Charyl They come from 3-c You're wertless!!!!! Joe, 
And it's plain to see atriend Happy Anniversary! It's oeeA .a Two girls need ride to Ft. Lauder; They'll soon be the "Canvas Backs" great year. Love, Goofydale for Spring break. Call 4-4291 or Vicki, Happy Birthday to my favorite 
4-4378 To "Acc.ounting Secret Admirer": person. Love, Rick Happy 21st, Vicki: Now at least one Thanks for the Valetine carnation. thing you do will be legal! Uncle Need ride to Louisville, Ky. any 203 Breen Phillips JP-Hubie weekend. Call Clit 8421 Happy Birthday, we still love you. Karen, Kathy, Terry?, Beth? 218 Dear Tequila Lover, TYPING Call Carolyn at 232-9061 sh·ane is sober now. Don wants to There once was a Chesterton chick. 
show off his New York accent again. The same boy form Mahasset Now They called her a beautiful' Bic.' NEEDED: PAIRS OF GA TIX FOR Call 1978 Country Club Four we know he's truly fantastic She was lots of fun LASALLE;. CALL STEVE 287-6058 He'll leave his innocence behind She turned 21 
Valerie, Hope you had a Happy wnen we show him a "good time" And for her birthday I promise. NO 
GA Tickets for Wisconsin series. Valentine's Day and Thanks for the And BELIEVE us he'll no longer be PUN March 4 and 5. Will pay anythi'ng. ride. John a boy from Manhasset. rabbit Rosie Call John 289-2542. Happy 20th Jay P. 
Sweet Polly, Where's my favorite love, (alphabetically) Beth, Geralyn, To my dear friend and roomie: MEED 2 or 4 GA tix for LaSalle. Will wheeler? signed, starved in f-Line Maureen Happy 21 and all the best in the year pay. Call 3203 or 1504. to come, Vicki. Meilleurs Souhaits. 
Drew B. is not Drew Bauer There once was a boy from Manhas­Love, Katie 
WANTED: R1de to and from Dallas set We'll see if you can still sayfor spring break. Split driving and C.allisto B. and Spika T. Shacked yp Whom 3 women agreed was fantas­"Martini and Rossi--Asti Sumanti" expenses. Call Ben288-7523. in his gallery. This couple caroused tic backwards when you get back from day and night, He'll celebrate his birthday with a th~ bars. 
WANTED: One Wisconsin hockey Until they put those frolics to flight. cheer ticket tor Saturday. Call Tom at And we'll buy him a beer To one-third of the NEW tremen­288-9916. Dear Chris-Then he'l.l no longer be a "boy" dous triple, Happy 21st from RB and 
! had a good cry on Thursday and a from Manhasset. S B of B'n B campus service. 
1desperately need a ride to Tampa­smile on Friday. Thanks to you tor St. Pete area tor spring break. I'll both! And I really appreciated the Three giris need ride to Ft. Lauder­Happy BirthdayVicLi. from yourshare driving expenses. Call Flo flowers. Love, Mom dale over spring bread. Call 4687. new roomie Freely--6780 Dr. Buckley: Happy Birthday from Everbody knows all fire trucks are your loving students. Karen and Dizzy, Dippy, Dopey and the AQs red. But we can teach you lots of. Rae
NEED 2 GA tix tor LaSalle game call wish Victoria Anderson a happyMike 8708 21st.
other things... Mike and Matt 238 Dillon 
I

l,...._,.ll!....._,.._.,. ••••.._,.,~·.-----·.....-~-~-----·-----------_,-.,.., _________...-______......._.._ .....___,_____r•-"""'_ _.,.., _____~•. ,___._____..,._.___..,.._ __,_._...,__... __________... _,.... .....__..._-...1; 



--------~~-----~ 
r 
the observer Monday, February 21, 1977
8 

Denver snaps Irish unbeaten strin 

by Fred Herbst Sports Editor 

The Irish express has been derailed--for the moment at least. Like all good things, Notre Dame's WCHA unbeaten string came to an ' end over the weekend as the Irish battled to a 4-4 tie on Friday night before losing 3-2 Saturday night in a closely-fought series with the 
Pioneers of Denver University. 
Friday night was Greg Meredith 
night as the freshman wing scored 
all four of Notre Dame's goals, but 
while Meredith was having an 
outstanding night his teammates 
appeared listless. "A tie is better 
than a loss, but we played poor 
hockey," Lefty Smith, Notre Dame 
head coach said. "I was very 
di.ssappointed in our performance 
to say the least. We were lucky to 
get a tie." 
Meredith opened the scoring just 
52 seconds into the contest, with 
Allen Karsnia and Brian Walsh 
getting the assists. 
Failing on two powerplay oppor­tunities, the Irish finally cashed in on the man advantage. Following a mad scramble in front of the Denver net, Meredith notched his second goal of the evening at the 
8:26 mark of the first period to give Notre Dame a 2-0 edge. The assists went to Paul Clarke and Clark Hamilton on the play. 
After just missing on several good chances during a powerplay, once hitting the post and three times being denied by Len Moher on great saves, Denver closed to within one with 15:48 in the period on Lindsay Thomson's goal. Mark Davidson and Perry Schnarr picked up the assists on the play. 
The Irish just missed on an opportunity to increase their lead with four minutes gone in the second period. After making a stop on a shot by Don Fairholm, Pioneer goalie Jim Bales lost sight of the puck as it lay directly in front of the net with Hamilton skating in. However, Hamilton was unable to 

Mountaineers scale Irish 
by Frank LaGrotta Sports Writer 

Sometimes hidden behind all the numbers and percentages that make up a score card is the stark reality that the team that succeeds in putting the ball through the hoop 
game lay underneath the back­boards where, for the first time in 15 games, Digger Phelps'. five w~re dominated. Led by Maurtce Robm­son's 15 rebounds, the Mountain­eers pulled down 40 caroms to the Irish's 34. Center Bruce Flowers, forced to leave the game with five personal fouls midway through the second half, led the Irish in this category pulling down 10 . re­bounds. Toby Knight contributed seven while Dave Batton and Rich 
Branning hauled in six apiece. 
West Virginia, inspired by a heavily vocal homecoming crowd ran up a 6-0 lead before Batton's shot 17 minutes before the half gave the Irish their first tallies. From that point, led by the hot hand of Robinson, the Mountain­eers proceeded to turn the game into a track meet, running the Irish up and down the court. WVU was quick to build a 13 point, 40-27 half time lead. 
Toby Knight started the second 
half with four quick points to cut 
the West Virginia lead to nine 
before the Mountaineers hit three 
straight and soared to a IS-point 
lead, their largest of the game. 
It appeared that the Irish full court 
p:·ess would finally break the 
Mountaineers' back when Rich 
Branning's 15-foot jumper cut the 
Irish deficit to five points with 9 

Duck Williams, here rejected by Maurice Robinson, was held to 9 points, 8 below his season'siCOrlag avenae. (Photo by John Call'Utt) 
• 1J.Il • 
more than their opponents will win Notre Dame last visited Morgan­the basketball game. town. 
That's precisely the situation It's obvious that people weren't that the Mountaineers of West the only thing that the Notre Dame Virginia University found them­cagers attracted on Saturday as 
selves enjoying on Saturday when they defeated Notre Dame 81-68, before a capacity crowd of 13,151, their first sellout since 1971 when get a stick on the puck and Bales game for the Irish. He has a record was able to clear the disc. of 8-1-3 in overtime games. On the 
Notre Dame did increase their night he made 32 saves. Moher is lead to 3-1 shortly thereafter, as now unbeaten in his last 11 WCHA Meredith recorded the second hat games. Bales made 31 saves for trick of his career at 11:07 of the · Denver. 
second period, taking passes from 
Walsh and Karsnia. 
Denver closed the gap on a powerplay goal 1 :29 later by Schnarr, with assists going to Davidson and Thomson. Both teams missed on a couple of good 
chances during the remainder of 
the period, which ended 3-2. 
Paul Messier evened the score 
for the Pioneers with an unassisted 
goal at 2:12 of the final period. 
With the Irish playing flat, Denver 
almost took the lead as Vince 
Magnan stole a pass from Notre 
Dame while the Pioneers were a 
man short and skated in alone on Len Moher. Luckily for the Irish, Moher was equal to the test as he turned away the shot. At 13:28 Denver did take the lead as Schnarr scored a powerplay goal to put the Pioneers up 4-3. Greg Woods and Davidson got the assists on the play. Irish defenseman Paul Clarke actually kicked in Schnarr's shot. 
Disorganized and struggling, Meredith gave Notre Dame new life with his fourth goal of the night at 17:28. Again the assists went to Walsh and Karsnia. The action was fast and furious the remainder of the period, but neither team could score as regulation ended with the score knotted at four. 
Both teams continued to skate well in the overtime. The most serious scoring threat came with three minutes remaining as Moher . went to the ice to make the save on a shot by Woods and the rebound came directly up and appeared on its way into the Irish net. However, Paul Clarke was "Johnny-on-the­spot" for Notre Dame as the defenseman redeemed himself for Denver's fourth goal by batting the puck away in mid-air to save tile goal and the game. 
For Moher the game was his 12th appearance in an overtime 
they collected a total of 24 personal fouls, which permitted the Mount­tain Men 29 shots from the charity stripe and accounted for 15 points. However, the real story of the 


minutes remaining, but Notre Dame committed a series of fouls that detered any sort of an Irish comeback, and allowed the Moun­·'· taineers to extend their lead to 14 
\'-•.;. 
. 
Notre Dame could only convert on one of seven powerplay oppor­tunities. "Our speciality teams played extremely poorly,'' Smith observed, "both on the man advan­tage and the man short. We didn't play good alert hockey and Denver 
. did." 
Meredith's four goals gave him 20 for the year. "I think that much of the credit has to go to my linemates," Meredith said. "They were setting me up perfectly. I'm just thankful that I was able to put them away." 
The tie extended Notre Dame's WCHA unbeaten string to 13 games. 
Saturday night Notre Dame total­ly dominated play, outshooting Denver 82-50, but still lost. Pioneer goalie Jim Bales managed to keep the Irish at bay with a number of incredible saves that frustrated head coach Lefty Smith. "The goalie is the great equalizer in this game," he said. "The fact that a goaltender makes saves like Bales made tonight, makes an even game out of what could have been a rout.'' 
The Irish started play Saturday night with the same dull, sloppy play that had characterized most of the previous night's action. Tom Zajac staked the Pioneers to an early lead as he beat Notre Dame netminder John Peterson from the left side at the 5:58 mark of the opening period. 
clark Hamilton scored on a pass from Kevin Nugent to tie the game for the Irish at 12:56. The score seemed to pump life into the Irish as they began to skate better:from that point on. Walsh had a chance to give Notre Dame the lead early in the second period as he had a breakaway on Pioneer goalie Jim Bales, but Bales was able to make the save. 

Freshman standout Greg Meredith scored all fow goals in the Irish 4-4 tie Friday night. Meredith now has .20 goals this season. 
At 13:25 Alex Belcourt gave Denver a 2-1 edge as his 40-foot slap shot beat Peterson to the upper right corner of the net. The period ended 2-1. 
Steve Schneider drew .Bales out of the net with three minutes gone in the final period, but couldn't tie the game as he missed the open net. 
Denver scored what proved to be the winning goal as a result of a crucial Irish error. Trying to clear the puck behind his own net, Don Jackson misfigured and bounced the puck of the back boards directly in front of the goal where Belcourt was waiting for the Pioneers. He had little trouble putting the disc past the much-surprised Peterson for his second goal of the evening. 
Nugent brought Notre Dame back to within one as he scored at 
8:58 to make th~ score 3-2. But the 
points. 
Statistics showed West Virginia shooting 33 for 64 from the field for 51 percent, while the Irish could connect on only 30 of 73 attempts for 41 percent. 

On a brit. hter note for Notre Dame, the It.sh displayed near­perfect accuracy in the free-throw category hitting on eight of nine shots. ·· 
The Mountaineers, boasting five players in twin-figures, were led by Robinson's game high 21 points. Sid Bostick tallied 16, Tony Robert-
Chicago State downs Irish 
by Eileen O'Grady ND Women's Sports Editor 

. Notre Dame's women cagers 
suffered a big defeat last Thurs­day night, losing to Chicago State 63-41. The game was the last home game for the women, and brings their record up to 6-3. 
Chicago dominated the enitre game. Although this is only their second season of competition '• their shooting, speed, and re­bounding were all excellent. They certainly surprised the Irish. 
All to+?lf>-1 rh;,.~ol) State com­bined for 40 p~:rcent of their field goals, compared to a cold Irish 24 percent. State's aggressiveness also forced 16 turnovers from the Irish, including 12 steais. 

High sl1Prer for the game was Vivica Green, a Chicago State scholarship player, who scored on seven of 13 field goal attempts, for 14 points. Another scholarship player, Michelle Wright, collected nine rebounds, and eight points, on four baskets in seven shots. 
For the Irish, Carola Cummings again led in scoring with 11 points, but it put no dent in State's attack. Bonita Bradshaw paced the hapless 
ND  defense,  grabbing for  seven  
rebounds.  
Notre  Dame  completes  their  

regular season this week with two away games in Fort Wayne: IUPU­Fort Wayne, and St. Francis Col­lege. 
Next Tuesday, they travel to Valparaiso to compete in the Nor­thern District. playoffs. Ifsuccessful there, the Irish will then go to state: 
Irish could get no closer as they met with their first WCHA defeat in 14 games. 
On the night, Peterson made 49 saves. Bales had 32 saves, many of them spectacular. 
"Denver was opportunistic," Smith noted. "We made three silly plays and they got three goals. You can never be happy when you lose, but our kids played well. From a satisfaction point of view, I'm more pleased tonight than I was last night. We hustled and never gave up." 
The Irish, now te~ points behind first-place Wisconsin, travel to Michigan next weekend to take on Michigan Tech. "The loss tonight really puts the pressure on us to win up at Tech," Smith said. "We just have to go up there and do it now." 
son and Bob Huggins gathered 14 apiece and Russell ChapmaJL fjni­shed the day with 10 points. 
Knight's 16 points led the Irish 
scoring attack. He was followed by 
Flowers with 13, Batton and Bran­
ning with 10 apiece, Duck Williams 
with nine and Bill Paterno adding 
eight to the losing effort. 

The win raised the Mountaineers 
mark to 15-9 while it snapped a 
nine-game Irish winning streak and 
dropped their record to 17-6. 

The Irisn face Loyola of Chicago in the ACC Wednesday night at 8. 


