
"Our first priority," Speier: 
ers is the ACC. "That's what does 
Fall concerts annou111ced 
by Jack Pizzolato Senior Stafi Reporter  termed "tour reschedul­ing." -Speier said tht a "hard rock" concert for Dec. 2 was "in  The su concert commission is co-promoting the three concerts it has presently booked with Sun­ 
the works."  shine Promotions of Indianapolis.  
Crosby, Stills and Nash and the  The  Steve  Miller  Band,  who  "This is not a contractual agree­ 
Steve Miller Band are among five artists and groups who will appear in concert this fall at the Notre  released the album "Book of Dreams," will perform on Oct. 31, the date of Notre Dame's Home­ ment," Speier pointed out, "it simply turned out that way." Speier explained that when  
Dame ACC, Student Union (SU) Concert Commissioner Tim Speier announced yesterday. The five­date concert schedule will begin Oct. 1 and end on Dec. 2. Oct. 1 and Dec. 2 are still open dates according to Speir. Kansas, the group originally booked to  coming celebration. Crosby, Stills and Nash, which Speier billed as ''the hottest concert in the country," will follow on Nov. 5. Hall and Oates, performers of the hit singles "Rich Girl" and "Sarah Smile," are scheduled to appear on Nov. 19.  scheduling concerts he has two options open to him. "I can go directly to a.n agency and buy the act and promote it solely on my. own, or," he continued, "I can co-promote with an agency who has an interest in purchasing a show and bringing it in on one of my  
appear at Notre opening concert,  Dame for the was forced to  "We're trying to hit everyone's taste." Speier commented, "and I  dates." Sunshine  According Promotions  to Speier, approached  
break their engagement because of  think  we  have  a  pretty  broad  him with th•~ concert offers and he  
what the SU concert commissioner  spectrum.''  accepted.  

noted, "is to get shows that are 

, appealing and financially sound.'' The ACC gives the SU concert commission four of five guaranteed concert dates for each semester. "We're working with dates that usually coincide with big events on 1 campus and are not flexible," ' Speier said. "You can't just call up a group and say 'Hey, why dont' you play Notre Dame, 'They have to be touring in the area and the money has to be right." 
Speier predicts that this semes­ter the SU concert commission will do very well "due to the financial deals that we've worked out." The commission has negotiated directly · with Sunshine Promotions, who will bear half the financial respon­sibility for the concerts. Each show the SU concert commission spon­sors is '.'self-supporting" and is financed solely through ticket re­ceipts. 
Speier noted that a big part of Notre Dame's ~ttraction ~o promot: it for us," he said. "Other big schools are hurting for shows," he added, ''because they don't have the kind of tremendous facility we do." Speier emphasized that his commission had a good relation­ship with the ACC staff. 

Next semester, Speier plans to promote four major concerts as well as several professional mini-con­certs in Stephan Center. Some of the possibilities he mentioned were Bruce Springsteen, Dan Fogleberg and a rescheduling of Kansas. 
Sizing up the SU concert com­mission's record, Speier called his organization "successful and pro­fessional." "We have to be tight-knit because decisions have to be made fast,'' he poil)fed out. Working with Speier is Stage Hand Manager John Bonacci, Commis­sion Comptroller Kathy Fitzpatrick and "Head of Logistics" Mike Decker. · 



server 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's Friday, September 9, 1977 Vol. XII, No. 9 

'Fear of arrest' causes drop in bar attendance 
Rosemary Mllls A spokesman for Corby's also 
Stafi Reporter stated that "We had a really good weekend." He added that he knew nothing about any decrease in business. 
Decreased attendance at two of Division Police Chief Donald Foy the local bars last weekend is due stated that there were no arrests in mostly to exaggerated fear of police the Corby -Eddy area this week­harassment and arrest, claim the end. "The only complaints wespokesmen for Nickie's and the received were about loud stereos atLibrary. 
parties," he said. Foy said the While Nickie's served one-third extra patrols will be continued. 
of the people it had expected to, the 
Kanser and "Bullet" also citedLibrary's attendance was only the opening of the Senior Bar as a"slightly down" from what they cause of the fall in attendance.

had anticipated. "And we always Kanser called it A new fad for theexpect higher attendance than seniors" and added that thewe get,'' added Rick Kanser, "craze will die off after a while."
owner of the bar. Neither felt that not serving draft 
Both Kanser, and "Bullet," the beer had any dffect on business. 
manager of Nickie's felt that an 
Kanser feels that "If a studentarticle and editorial published in judges price of a product as anFriday's Observer intimidated stu­indication of its volume, our pricesdents. "The article in the paper are no higher than anyone else's." 
was largely negative," said Kan­
ser. "The extra police are here by Kanser, a Northeast Neighbor­a mutual agreement of the area hood Association representative, residents, bar owners, and univer­feels that "once students begin to sity. They are not here to harass take responsibility for the area, the the students." patrols will no longer be neces~arv:' "This area is the last strong-hold 
Kanser stated that ''any student of off-campus living,'' Kanserwho is 21 and is confident of his stated. "Any student who lives here identification'' should not be afraid has as many rights as any resident to enjoy the bars. "Our carding of South Bend. Ifthese rights ·arepolicy has not changed from pre­violated, we will offer .:'tee legal A couple of local bars experienced decreased attendance last weekend because of student's fearsvious years," he said, adding that 
assistance." of arrest, but Corby's said their business was unaffected. [photo by Doug Christian] he does not anticipate changing it in the future. 
"Bullet" also stated that the extra patrols were on hand to 
Convicted Plati awaits sentencing
prevent noise, litter and drinking outside the bars, and not to bother anyone. He does, however, admit By Drew J. Bauer not to return to Notre Dame in the Provost James T. Burtcbaell appoint An architecture assistant profes­that the local police and the Indiana Senior Stafi Reporter fall even before he heard about two members of the Academic sor for the last six years, Plati was Alcoholic Beverages Commission Plati's indictment. Council to attempt to persuade a indicted last April along with are "watching" Nickie's as a result Richardson told the Observer conciliation in private. Ifthat fails, Pacolo Bernardi from Turin, Italy . of incidents that occurred last year that he "had no idea why Plati the Academic Council would According to the U.S. attorney's
Former Notre Dame architecture 

involving minors. "We expect to resigned" and that although they appoint a committee to conduct a o~ce in Chicago, Bernardi pleaded 
professor Enrico F. Plati pleaded guilty to all four counts in July
be raided early and often," he had talked on the telephone several formal hearin~.
guilty last month to three counts of stemming from his involvement in 
said. times this summer, they did not
receiving, concealing and facilitat­Burtchaell, who would have ulti­Theresa Bauer, part-owner of ing the sale of three cars. A fourth talk about the possibility of Plati mately decided after the council the smuggling ring. He was 
sentenced to three years probation 
resigning. "He did this on his

Bridget McGuire's, said that they charge of conspiring to defraud. the submitted their report if it would and is now living in Italy. 
were not affected by the decreased United States by smuggling foreign own," said Richardson. have been necessary to terminate The prosecutor's office refused attendance. "We had pretty good cars was dismissed by the federal However one associate of Plati Plati' s services, refused comment comment on whether Plati and business," she stated. · "Police attorney in exchange for the three commented "you couldn't really saying "I don't know anything Bernardi were part of a largerexpect him to stay around here too about it except what I read in thehave always been around here. guilty pleas. 
organization. However, the two
long after h•~ was indicted and was papers."
Maybe it scares the kids, but they Plati, who is scheduled to be were arrested in connection with a
waiting to stand trial. The Univer­
get used to it." sentenced on sept. 27, submitted -Plati is currently in Chicago special federal investigation of a
sity made it very clear that they~
his resignation to the University in working as an architect for a 
ring suspected of smuggling exotic 
Bauer added that several female didn't want him around any more." private firm. When reached for a
July after last year's academic year cars into the country.
students have confided feeling 
ended..The'South Bend Tribune, in According to the Faculty Hand­comment if Notre IDame officials 
Plati said Tuesday night that hesafer because the police were 
a story two weeks ago, quoted book, if P1a1ti had not resigned, he asked him to resign, Plati said "H 
will miss Notre Dame very muchpresent. "They know that they're 
Ambrose M. Richardson, chairman could have been dismissed since he theJ.Tniversity did not want to make 
~d "that I leave the Universityhere for their protection," she of the Architecture Department, as was convicted of a felony. The public what happened, I guess I wtth many regrets and no bitter­concluded. 
· saving that be had expected Plati procedure would have had former should not comment." . ness." 


Friday, September 9, 19n
the observer 
o t. 1 . 4 i • ~ I , I I
.:-. 

·· ··· ·· · .~Psych Services forms program
News Briefs 


to help · with alcohol problems 

The challenge grant, a matching over 1.3 million volumes as well as 
12 i.nch SUBMARINES program which could bring the other materials. The grant will be 
SANDWICHES

JULIO'S
University as much as $1.6 million used to purchase additional books 
SPAGHETTI

if it is fully subscribed, was created in the humanities as well as to build by Congress specifically to attract an endowment for future purchas­
DEEP DISH

private support to major cultural es. SPAGHETTI 
half full 
& REGULAR

institutions like the Notre Dame _,-----------.... 
With sauce 1.65 2.20 
library, Brademas said. f*The Obser erl With meatballs. 1.85 2.50 PIZZA
!Jte University must raise three v_ dollars from individuals, corpora­tions, foundations and other sour-Night Editor: Bob Brink PIZZA 
12 in.14 in 
ces for every one dollar it spends Asst. Night Editor: Frank 
Cheese 2.55 3.05 
under the Humanities Endowment Kebe (one 'yurd 'stard) 
Sausage 3.10 3.95 
grant. layout Staff: Katie Kerwin, Mushroom 3.10 3.95 232-7919 
University President Rev. Tbeo-Tracy Herman Pepperoni 3.10 3.95 dore M. Hesburgh, who aa:epted Editorial layout: Judy Rup-Green Pepper 3.10 3.95 9131!2 LWW the grant, said, "The heart of precht Ground Beef 3.10 3.95 
South Bend

academic enterprise in any uDiver-Features layout: Drew Bauer Ham 3.10 3.95 sity is its library, and the improve-Sports layout: Bob Keen, Paul Onion 3.10 3.95 ment of Notre Dame's collection Stevenson Anchovy 3.10 3.95 has been a top institutional prior-Typists: Eileen Lynch, Mardi Black Olive 3.10 3.95 ity. The endowment grant will Nevin, Tom Powanda {Cheese plus ariy 2 items) 3.50 4.45 *delivery fee enable us to take a major step Night Controller: Rich Clarizio {Cheese plus any 3 items) 3.90 4.95 $. 75 plus tax forward in maintaining and enhan-O.y Editor: Mary Pat Tarpey Cheese plus any 4 items) 4.30 5.45 cing the quality of our collection." Copy Reader: Bob Varettoni 
Pan Pizza $1.00 extra

Brademas, who is chief House Ad Layo~t: Greg Trzupek, sponsor of the legislation which John P. 0 Connell . . 
D~.L.IVER.Y ~~T.~ QUR PORTABLE OVENS..
~~-~-.~~~ti?~~·:· ·~~•.-9!l!J~..~?.c!~t!,;y\, 
... • o • ~ I ' • . ~ I 

\: '\\"-~""'. \". ~ \\·. ·.\'\.1.,1.~\ :\_... \; ... \.,'.'\. • • • • • • . . • ...
"1:... ..'\: l '\.·~·~ .'.."'.\. • ..·~·..' ..\.\.......... ,I, ,'\....."l'\.\:·.\.\-. ... '· , ........•...,....... •:•,"·'·'··'•. •. •. ~....... 
Amin in coma 

John Morrissey NAIROBI, Keaya • ldi Amin, self-proclaimed 
Staff Reporter presideat-for-life of Uganda, was reported "in a coma" in a Kampala hospital yesterday after undergoing surgery for an undisclosed ailment. 
In an attempt to help solve some of the alcohol-related problems on . campus, a new branch of the

No horsing around 
Psychological Services Counseling Center has been formed to dealCIHCAGO -As part of a divorce settlement, a horse with such difficulties. 
is going to et $250 a month. 

The program does not have anC'arcuit Court Judge Reuben Liffshin Wednesday official name yet, but according toordered F. Cushing Smith, SO, of Wilmette to pay coordinator Peggy Cronin, the pro­$250-a-month support for his 14-year-old daughter's ject is beginning "to take sh~pe."
show horse, Monkey Business. 
VVor king with Betty Albert, a social worker for the center, the program will offer "a new approach" to
On Campus Today_.............
..,, 

dealing with alcohol at both 'Notre Dame a~d St. Mary's. ·•s:15 pm--mass and dinner, bulla shed. 
"I came here three years ago," 
Cronin said, "and I dealt with 7,9, 11, pm --film, "mahogany", sponsored by student union, eng. aud. $1. 

Eleven students 
8 pm --meeting, catholic alumni club, lib. lounge. 
qualify as 


paratroopers
saturday 

by Michael Berberich form<~l dedication cermony, smc angela athletic facility. 
Eleven Notre Dame students 
1:30pm--o 

2;50 pm --football game, notre dame vs. pittsburgh at became qualified paratroopers bypittsburgh. 
completing Army ROTC Airborne Training held at Fort Benning, GA
7,9:15,11:30 pm --film, "cool hand luke", sponsored over the summer. This brings theby sophomore class, eng. aud. $1. 
number of qualified Army ROTC paratroopers at Notre Dame to 14midnight --mass, sponsored by howard and badin and ranks the University's Airbor­halls, grotto. 
ne program third in the nation. 

The Army ROTC Airborne Pro­gram consists of three weeks of training, according to Capt. Robertsund<ly Clemens, an associate professor of Military Science. During the first10 am --bus trip, nd-smc junior class trip to dunes, week the cadets went throughlem<~ns parking Jot, $2. 
general conditioning. In the sec­ond week they learned how to10:45 am --mass, formal opening mass of academic operate parachutes and exit aircraft year, fr. hesburgh celebrant, sacred heart church. 
properly. During the third week they made five jumps from an1 pm --meeting, mecna, rathskeller. 
altitude of 1,SOO feet to complete the program.
2 pm --reception, fr. hesburgh's reception for new Cadet Art Brannan stated that he faculty and spouses, cce. 
was unafraid during the jumps, but that it was an eery feeling watching 7, 9:15, 11:30 pm --film, "cool hand luke" sponsored those ahead of him disappear asby sophomore class, eng. aud. $1. 
they jumped. "Landing is the
$ 

hardest part," he said. "Most7:30 pm --rosh hashana new year's party, jewish injuries occur from improper land­students, spouses and faculty wei 
ing." Cadet Brian Kao was nervous before his first jump. Regarding

Weather 
the rest of his jumps he stated, "I 
knew what to expect and wasn't as Partly sunny, warm and humid today with a 30 per tense." cent chance of afternoon showers and thunder­There are currently 14 Airborne storms. Highs in the mid 80's. There is a slight cadet in the Army program. Only chance of showers and thunderstorms tonight, West Point and Texas A & M turning cooler with lows in the upper 40's and low surpass this number, said Clem­SO's. Sunny and cool tomorrow with highs in the low ens. 70's. Clemens stated, "Airborne Trai­
ning provides exciting training for cadets." He explained that the 
• program enabled cadets to get a feel for the army and prepared

Library rece1ves grant 
them for active duty. He added 
Third District Congressman John Endowment, said that the grant that Airborne Training expands the Brademas announced Wednesday ''comes at an important point in the cadets opportunities. Those who that Notre Dame has been awarded University's overall fundraising finish the program are eligible for a $400,000 "challenge grant" from drive and should provide a strong placement in Airborne units world­the National Endowment for the incentive for private giving to the wide. Humanities to bolster its library library fund." expansion drive. The Memorial Library now holds students that Dean of Students groups at Notre Dame and at St. Roemer would send to me. Mary's who are "actively involv­Students, who would come to me as ed" in bringing alcohol abuse their 'punishment', would, in many problems into focus. "There are cases, prefer to rake leaves than two films available for dorm show­talk about their actions under the ings and there are students avail­influence of alcohol." able to go to dorms and talk with 
"But slowly the kids came their peers about alcohol." around, and we began meeting She also noted that there has once a week," she continued. been no Notre Dame women's hall "The students began to feel that that has invited her or her group to discussion of incidents involving go to the dorm to discuss alcohol. alcohol was not as difficult as they "I'm not saying that they have had thought. I became less of a deliberately avoided us; I have threat and they began to open up.'' been invited to women's halls to 
Cronin is prepared, she said, to talk about other subjects, but I just initiate a program that ''would think that fact is interesting," she include all aspects of the Notre commented . Dame community---students, rec­"We are beginning to get a tors, resident assistants and admi­direction for ourselves," Cronin nistrators." She said she is in the concluded and encouraged Notre process of preparing a "high-level Dame and St. Mary's students to seminar'' involving administrators "get interested" in alcohol and its and have "approaches from out­role on campus. side professionals" be brought in and discuss alcohol problems and 
The Observer Is published Mon­
their solutions. 
day through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. Tile Observer Is published by the 

An extensive media campaign, 
involving both the Observer and 
students of Notre Dame and Saint

WSND is also "in the planning 
M.,-y•s College. Subscriptions may be purchased for no per year ($ 1 0 per semester) from The

stages,'' Cronin maintains. A 
weekly column or program dealing 
Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre

with alcohol in a student's life 
Dame, lndlau 46556. Second "would be of interest, I think, to 
class poatage paid, Notre Dame, Indiana, 46556.
everyone." 
The Observer Is a member of

As the program stands now, 
the Associated Press. All repro­
duction rights ere reserved.

Cronin stated, there are student 
I,---------------~
ATIENTION ALL ND/SMC 
l 

ICLUBS AND ORGANIZATIONS!!I 1 Interested in participating in I I St. Mary's Student Activity Night? I 
II II 
on Wednesday, Sept. 14? 
I I 
I Please call SMC Student Activities Office at 4318 I \before Friday, September 9 
i 





~---------------' 
ATTENTION! UNIVERSITY FACULTY AND OFF-CAMPUS STUDENTS 
Anyone who does not have a meal program which includes evening meals and wishes to attend the Carney '77 pimic dinner can purchase a ticket at the office of student adivites in La Fortune Student Center W ednes­day thru Friday. . Carney '77 will be held from 4:30 p.m.-6:30 
p.m. on Friday, Septbember 9. Tickets are $3.35. 
.....' .. ' 

·. Friday, September 9, 1977 
Scholarship established 

Michiana civic leaderS honor Hesburgh 

by Maureen Flynn Editorial Editor 

A full scholarship to the Univer­sity of Notre Dame for a student from an underdeveloped country has been established by members of the South Bend-Michiana com­munity and will be named in honor of University President Fr. Theo­dore M. Hesburgh. The announce­ment was made last night at a banquet saluting Hesburgh on his silver anniversary as president, and was attended by more than three hundred business, profes­sional and civic leaders from the Michiana area. 
Earlier in the evening, Hesburgh was praised as a ''priests' presi­dent'' by Bishop William E. Mc­Manus, head of the South Bend diocese, and as a ''big brother to the world" by Ernestine Raclin, co-chairman of the event and 

member of Notre Dame's Board of Trustees, 
Principal Speaker for the evening was U.S. Representative John Bra­demas (D-Ind.), minority whip, who described Hesburgh as "our community's most illustrious citi­zen". 
"Fr. Hesburgh has been an outstanding champion of human rights and social justice both at home and abroad," Brademas said, and credited the University President with "admonishing us that 'liberty is worth the effort, and the creation of justice and peace abroad will in, large measure der.end on the measure of justice and peace that we create here at home."' 
Hesburgh, Brademas noted, "wants Notr•~ Dame to be a leader among the universities of the world in undertaking what he has called 'the dual task of transmitting and expanding knowledge' and, 'at the same time, the more difficult role of educating persons with that sense of moral responsibility and judgement required to manage change and. to use knowledge for mankind's betterment and prog­ress instead of for his destruction.'' Hesburgh responded to Brade-

U.S., Can~da reach agreement upon new pipeline constr1uction 
WASHINGTON (AP)-The United States and Canada agreed yester­
, day to construct a 2, 700-mile pipeline across Canada to bring natural gas from Alaska to the lower 48 states. The Canadian route was chosen over a competitive land-sea route because itwill save U.S. consumers an estimated $6 billion in fuel costs, do less damage to the environment, and provide greater safety, President Carter said. Carter and Canadian Prime Min­ister Pierre Elliott Trudeau an­nounced agreement on the $10 billion project after meeting for an hour in the Oval Office.· Both praised the project as an example of American-Canadian cooperation. ''This joint undertaking will be the largest private energy project in history,'' they noted in a statement. Scheduled for completion in 1982 or 1983, the pipeline is expected to carry up to 2.2 billion cubic feet of natural gas a day, or 4 per cent of present U.S. consumption. The American-Canadian pipeline 
would run alongside the Alaska oil pipeline before turning east along the Alaska Highway. It then would cross the rugged Yukon and enter Canada's prairie provinces. 
The pipeline would split into two branches before entering the lower 48 states. One branch would carry natural gas as far east as Chicago. The other branch would serve the West Coast, ending in California. 
Details of the project remain to be worked out. "We will sign the fine print next week," Trudeau said. "I'm certain there will be no difficulty there." 
The pipeline will be privately financed by a joint American­Canadian consortium headed by Northwest Pipeline Corp. of Salt Lake City, Utah and Foothills Pipe Lines Ltd. of Calgary, Alberta. 
It will be the largest natural gas pipeline ever built, bringing the fuel south from Alaska's North Slope to the West Coast and Middle West. The pipeline will be 2,700 miles long, with about 2,000 miles in Canada. 
The two leaders noted the pipe-


SU activities outlined 
by Tony Pace 

Student Union Social Commi­sioner Orest Deychakiwsky out­lined his plans for fall semester activities at two organizational meetings this Tuesday and Wed­nesday. He indicated that most activities would be a continuation or adaptation of last year's activ­ities. 
At the first meeting, which was attended by all commission mem­bers, Deychakiwsky revealed plans for Darby's Place, the Nazz, and the Quickee. Darby's opened earlier this week and the Nazz will open this weekend. With their opening, the basement of LaFortune will be active every day but Sunday. 
The Quickee, a shuttlebus to various Michigan watering holes, will begin operation on Friday Sept. 16. Deychakiwsky said the Quickee will run on both Friday and Saturday nights on eight weekends this semester. 
Other events scheduled include Friday's block party on the Stepan courts, Homecoming, which will be held on the weekend of the USC football game, a small mid-Novem­ber concert and a Halloween mas­querade party. Details concerning these events will be revealed as plans are completed. 
This week's second meeting, held in conjunction with the St. Mary's Social Commission, was intended to coordinate the schedule of social events for the ND-SMC community. One event specifically discussed was Oktoberfest, tradi­tionally a St. Mary's function. This semester the two social commis­siOJ.lS may work ~ore .closely. ~~ .. Oktoberfest.. 
Deyc~akiwsky described the se­

cond meeting as fruitful. "Bas­ically," he said, "the meeting (with St. Mary's) was to exchange plans for the year. We offered to co-sponsor events with them. Oktoberfest would be the first step." , 
Looking at this semester's social schedule, Deychakiwsky expressed hope of working with hall social commissions. "Already this semes­ter," he stated, "we have co-spon­sored a concert with Howard Hall. From what I can see everybody was happy with that." 
Deychakiwsky hopes that these actions will help to provide stu­dents with a more varied and integrated social program. 
. weel«<ays 7:PO. ':30 sat-sun 2:00 4.:30 7.:00 
line would give Canada greater ability to develop its gas reserves in the wildemess regions of . the Mackenzie Fliver delta. 
· "The United States, in turn, will have the enormous benefit of new natural gas supplies from the North Slope of Alaska at a significantly lower cost-of-service price than could have been achieved through an all U.S. route," they said. 
The losing project, sponsored by the El Paso Co. of Houston, would have built a pipeline parallel to the Alaska oil pipeline, ending at Valdez, Ala.ska. The natural gas then would have been liquified and shipped south to the West Coast by tanker. 
El Paso vowed to fight the American-Canadian route in Con­gress, whkh can overturn the agreement. 
El Paso chairman Howard Boyd said "recent history demonstrates that even treaties with foreign countries are honored only so long as it serves the interest of such countries to do so." 

The White House announcement brings closer to a conclusion a long dispute over how to transport to the lower 48 states the immense re­serves of natural gas found in the Alaskan Arctic. 
Junior Class to conduct trip to Wilrren Dunes 
The ND-SMC Junior Class is sponsoring a trip to Warren Dunes on Sunday afternoon. Maps can be picked up in the Student activities office in LaFortune or LeMans. There is a two dollar charge for parking at the dunes. A bus will be rented for those unable to find a ride. The bus charge is two dollars. 
The bus sign-up is in the Student Activities office. 
AUNIVHISM ~Cffii\HfCHNICOlOR® f!! 
weekdays 4i.4' 9:1 

sat-sun 
1.;~~ ... :1. :;~,· 

mas's comments by observing that "American higher education has reached the heights of intelligence without exploril\g the depths of virtue and the human heart." 
"We have to get our youngsters to live for justice," Hesburgh said. "We have to get them to ask, 'What's the right thing to do?"' 
"I am grateful before God and man," the University president said, ''for the wonderful people who have filled my life, for the understanding people and students with whom I have worked." 
Joyce, Burtchaell praised 

In his address, Brademas prais­ed Executive Vice-President Fr. Edmund Joyce and former Provost Fr. James T. Burtchaell, neither of whom was present last night. 
Joyce, the congressional leader 
stated, "has served for 25 years as 
a leader of Notre Dame with 
extraordinary skill and devotion." 
Brademas described Burtchaell as '•the brilliant and engaging scho­lar-priest-administrator who has for the last seven years given outstanding service to Notre Dame as Provost. . . " 
Co-chairman of the salute to Hesburgh were Jerry Hammes and Ernestine Raclin .. Arthur J. Deccio of Elkhart announced the establish­ment of the Hesburgh scholarship. 
Senior Trip money due 

Today is the deadline for senior trip money. All seniors who paid the $50 deposit in the spring must pay the $220 balance in person between 12-4 p.m. in the LaFor­tune lobby. All payments must be accompanied by a student ID. 
Roommate reservations must al­so be made today. There will be four people to a room, and the ID's of all roommates are necessary for reservations. 
JUNIOR CLASS WHITE sox· BASEBALL TRIP SEPT 18 CALIF. ANGELS 
doubleheader tickets .on ~ale daily in 
LAFORTUNE LOBBY 


12:00-6:00 
$11 for bus &game ticket 
FRIDAY 3 -&pm 
HAPPY HOUR! 
~

120Z · BEERS 35* U) c12oz. mich 40~ ·-...
,

12oz.heineken 75• 
SATURDAY 1 -&pm 2 OZ. BEERS -35* 10-11pmvictoryshot o' schnapps 25* 



, ' • I • ~ 
Friday, September 9, 1977
4 
the observer 



SMC renovates Moreau Hall 
byMaureal~ 
Senior Stall Reporter 
The St. Mary's art department in Moreau Hall is nearing the end of its year long renovation program and is now able to offer students • wider choice of studio facilities. The main areas of renovation include sculpture, design, ceramics and graphics. 
The area of the most remodeling was the design and gallery area located on the first floor under O'Laughlin Auditorium. The sec­tion was redivided for a more efficient use of space and to make room for a new sculpture studio. This new sculpture area includes new tables, all types of large and small power tools, sewing rna­chines, compressors, new lighting and additional plumbing. Special 

~---------------~
I \
INTERVIEWS. FOR 8 I IMPORTANT PEOPLE TO: 
I 
I I I Plan, Coordinate and Inspire I
I 
Spiritual Activities 1 I on the Spiritual Commission I1 
I I 
1

I Call Jeanne at SMC 4945 
to compete 

The Notre Dame Chess Team
I\ for your interView J 






~·--------------' 
, 
I 



I-w ND 
SMC 

THEATRE 

r 
r-
concern was taken to provide every safety feature possible with the new equipment and power tools, according to James Paradis, acting art department chairman. 
The graphics area was redesigned and new tables, chairs, two pres­ses and cabinets were added. Also a wide range of etching supplies, including a plate cutter, exhaust system and large hot plates, were purchased. The area, on the first floor of Moreau, is used mainly for etching and printmaking proces­ses. The ceramics area also received a facelift with the addition of two kilns, a day mixer and a slab roller. 
The fibers studio received new looms and its location, along with the art education room, were changed in order to enlarge the painting studios on the third floor. 

TENNIS WEAR WARM UP SUITS 
I 

SWIM WEAR & T-SHIRTS ATHLETIC BAGS 

100 CENTER MISHAWAKA 
' 
L_ 
ALL STUDENTS INTERESTED IN TECHNICAL THEATRE WORK ARE ENCOURAGED TO ATTEND AN ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING ON MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 12, AT 7 PM IN WASHINGTON HALL AUDITORIUM. 
FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL 
284-4595. 
255-7770 

The renovation plan also inclu­
ded all gallery areas of Moreau. 
The Little Theatre Gallery on the 
second level was re-floored this 
summer and the lights in the first 
floor Moreau Gallery are currently' 
being improved. 

Paradis emphasized that the 
renovations in the department are 
not complete, but stated that they 
are all fully functional now. He 
added that he hoped to have 
additional work done on the sculp­
ture and design areas. 

The tenovations began after the art faculty and NASA, the National Association of Schools of Art, reviewed the St:Mary's facility and recommended the changes to cor­rect weaknesses in each area. St. Mary's has been a member of NASA for about five years and will be reviewed again in the fall of 1978 for further remodeling needs. 
The changes in the department were financed partly by the school, and, to a large extent, by the Graham Company. The Graham grant of $25,000 was acquired through Dr. John Duggan, Presi­dent of St. Mary's. 
Further changes in the make-up of the department include the addi­tion of two new faculty members, Doug Tyler in photography and design. and Michelle Frickey, gal­lery coordinator. Margo Hoff, an artist-in-residence for the fall sem­ester, will be teaching painting and design. 
Chess team 

will meet the South Bend Chess Club tomorrow at 9:30 1\.m. in Room 325 of the Mathematics and Computer Science Building. 
Notre Dame has won three of five matches for the cup but the trophy is presently held by the South Bend Club after their 18-5 victory last year. Anyone interested in compe­ting should call 234-9648. 



THE LIBRARY 
LIQUOR STORE SPECIALS 
Qt. Vodka $3.99 5th Gin $3.79 5th Ruinite Lambrusco $1.79 
6pk Lite  $1.69  
12pk Old Style  $2.99  
12pk Fall City  $.2.39  
Assorted Case Beer  $3.99  

ALL BEER SPECIALS ARE COLD 
Check With Us On Special Party Prices We Accep_t and Cash Any Student Checks Coid Beer Specials Extra Seruice 
IT~S SIMPLE: THE LIBRARY WANTS 
TO BE··YOUR··tfQUOR STORE 
Angela dedication 
Friday, Sept. 9 
7:30­

Banquet-Dining Hall -by reservation -$5.00-call 8:45 p.m. 284-5787 
8:45 -Micki King Hogue -WOMEN'S ATHLETICS: A 
10:00 p.m. SIGN OF THE TIMES -Dining Hall -Admission to this talk is free. ­
Saturday, Sept.·10 
-. 

8:30 -SPORTS COMMUNICATION -workshop 
9:30a.m. Posey Tucker-WSBT "Which Way to The Locker Room?" 
ADAPTED PHYSICAL EDUCATION-Dr. Evelyn A. Davies -Professor of Physical Education, Indiana University 
10:15 -noon WOMEN'S SPORTS: PROSPECTS AND PROB, 
1:15 p.m. 
2:30p.m. 
2:30­3:30p.m. 

LEMS-panel-Kathleen Cordes-Athletic director, Saint Mary's College-coordinator 
WOMEN'S COLLEGE ATHLETICS-"We're Survi­ving Beautifully" Leanne Grotke -Department of Physical Education, Indiana University; member, Executive Board, Association for Intercollegiate Athletics for Women (AIAW)_ 
"WOMEN IN AMATEUR ATHLETICS" -Carmen Piasecki-Assistant to the United States Attorney for Northern Indiana; 2 time Amateur Golf Champion. 
"THE MAKING OF A CHAMPION" -Patty Berg­American Golf Hall of Fame; World Golf Hall of Fame. 
FORMAL DEDICATION CEREMONY -The Most • Reverend William E. McManus, Bishop of the Fort Wayne-South Bend Diocese 
TENNIS-Saint Mary's College vs. De Pauw University -doubles. 
VOLLEYBALL CLINIC AND DEMONSTRATION ­Ball State University Volleyball team; Don Shondell, coach. HANDBALL CLINIC -Noel O'Sullivan -Physical Education Department, Notre Dame. 
RACQUETBALL DEMONSTRATION -Jean Gor­man, Saint Mary's College 
[continued on page 9] 

Friday, September 9, 1977 
Reagan o·rganizes: ·· Panama opposition 

WASHINGTON (AI')-With the ink barely dry on the new Panama Canal treaties, Ronald Reagan and other conservative opponents opened a campaign yesterday to block Senate ratification of the pacts. 
Reagan said the agreement to tum the canal over to the Pana­manians will weaken the United States as an international power and increase chances that the Panamanians will seize control of the waterway before the year 2000, when U.S. control is to end. 
"There is no way this will be seen as magnanimous," the former California governor said. "It will be seen as a further retreat by the United States." 
Reagan's testimony before a Senate judiciary subcommittee hearing came as the two chief U.S. negotiators for the treaties were testifying before a House Interna­tional Relations Committee. 
Sol Linowitz and Ellsworth Bunker said Congress will be asked to approve $345 million in economic aid for Panama, including $50 million for canal defenses. 
Asked what the United States would get in return for the aid, Linowitz said, "The most impor­tant thing we get is enhanced assurance of an open, accessible, secure canal." 
Linowitz said the Carter admin­istration believes both houses of Congress must approve parts of the agreement, including the aid pack­age and provisions to turn over police jurisdiction in the Canal Zone. But.the Senate alone has the responsibility for ratification, he said. 
' Some treaty opponents have argued that because the agreement includes disposal of U.S. property, the House should have an equal role in the ratification process. There is believed to be substan­tially less protreaty sentiment in the House than in the Senate, which is not expected to vote ·on ratification until next year. A two-thirds vote is required for ratification. 
With the leaders of 27 Latin American nations looking on, Pres­ident Carter and Panamanian Pres­ident Omar Torrijos signed the treaty Wednesday night, culmin­ating 13 years of negotiation. 
During his unsuccessful run for the Republican presidential nomi­nation last year, Reagan raised the canal issue and criticized former President Gerald R. Ford's at­tempts -now completed by Pres­ident Carter -to negotiate a new treaty. 
Ford is supporting the treaties and was present for the signing ceremony. Ford predicted yester­day that the Senate ratification vote "is going to be very, very close .. .It's going to be a tough fight." 
While Reagan's Senate ap­pearance is expected to be first of many in opposition to ratification, Ford said he has no intention to lobby or "twist any arms" on 
behalf of the Democratic adminis­tration's foreign policy initiative. 

No changes envisioned for SMC pass-fail option 
by Jean Powley St. Mary's Editor 

St. Mary's students have been permitted to take courses on a pass/fail basis for approximately seven years and no substantial changes in that procedure are expected in the near future, accor­ding to Registrar Sr. Francesca Kennedy. 
Freshmen are the only students who are prohibited from enrolling in a course on the pass/fail option. However, no student may take a core requirement course or a course required for their major pass/fail. 
The final deadline for returning pass/fail forms to the Registrar's Office is Tuesday, Sept. 13. 
A maximum of six pass/fail courses may be taken while a student is enrolled at St. Mary's, with no more than two non-graded courses per semester. Although the credit hours awarded in a pass/fail course count toward the 128 hours required for graduation, they are not included in computa­tion of the student's grade point average. 
Students taking pass/fail courses count toward the 128 hours re­quired for graduation, they are not included in computation of the student's grade point average. 
Students taking pass/fail courses are expected to follow all assign­ments, tests, discussions, projects and labs. However, no letter grade for the class will appear on the student's permanent record. In­stead, a grade of pass or fail will appear there. A grade of "D" must be earned to receive a passing mark. 
Students may not change a course to pass/fail after the normal add and drop period is over. 
Midnight mass set for Grotto 

Tomorrow a midnight mass will be held by candlelight at the grotto. 
Sponsored by the Badin and Howard Hall Religious Commis­sions, the mass begins a collabora­tive relationship between the com­missions of both halls. The liturgy will be planned by members of each dorm. 
Neither may a pass/fail course be changed to a graded course after the first two weeks of the semester. 
St. Mary's students taking Notre Dame courses pass/fail must ad­here to St. Mary's regulations. Notre Dame's regulations do not apply to St. Mary's students. 
As of Thursday morning, with the deadline for submission of pass/fail forms to the Registrar~s Office still four class days away, 216 forms had already been turned in. Although some students have enrolled in two pass/fail courses, this constitutes approximately 12.7 percent of St. Marv's students. 

; a .. 
' ~ 

. A spiritE~d crowd gathered at the steps of the Ad Building yesterday to express themselves at the Pitt game pep rally. [photo by Doug Christian] 
Pant~ies abound 
by Cathy Murray Staff Reporter 

It all !began at Zahm Hall Wednesday night, and by 10:30 
p.m. the first panty raiders Qf the season had invaded St. Mary's shouting, "We want silk!" 
As usual, St. Mary's women hung out their windows dangling underwear to encourage the men below. 
According to Anthony Kovatch, St. Mary's director of security, the Notre Dame men broke into small groups which he described as "fairly ord·erly." The only damage reported was a broken window in Holy Cross Hall and some damage to the campus grounds estimated at $200. No Notre Dame students broke into the women's dorms thanks to the "excellent word" done by RA's and dorm directors, he said. 
Kovatch further described the traditional raid as a "social event" and guess·ed that some male stu­dents called the underwear owners afterward. "Perhaps a good thing will come of it," he said. Those who missed Wednesday night's excitement don't worry because according to Kovatch, ''They'll be back.'' 



NOTRE DAME APARTME:NTS 
Close to Campus 
Apartments still available 
2 bedrooms-Com.pletel)r Furnished omplete Kitchen and r•ining Room 

$280-$3QOI month Up to 4 students Call: 233-6363 or ~~34-664 7 




MCAT. oii":LSAT~ liMIT~~ 
ORE •OCAT •VAT· SAT 
1MB I, II, Ill·ECFMD·fLEX·VQE 
NATL DENTAL BOARDS • NURSING BOARDS 
Flexible Programs I Hours 
CJ"here IS a differeracet!l 
For Information Please Call: 
Collect West lafayette 


l.~~.. 

463-7026 'fEST PREPARATION SPIEClALISTS SINCE 1938 
Serving Bloo~gtop, Indianapolis. South Bend I For locations in other cities 
Outside N.Y. State Only CALL TOLL FREE: .800·223·1182 Centers In MaJor US Cities Toronto, Puerto Rico and Lugano, Switzerland 
~ 
LSAT, VAT, and GRE ClASSES NOW FORMING 
.. ~.~-~-"""'!""!"'-!"'--~-"""!""!"'~~ 
..
.. .. 
... ... . ... .. ~' j 
' 
" ~

.. .. . .. " . ..... .• . ' ••.. ..1 ....... , .. '' 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
t

Any COLLEGE OF SCIENCE STUDENT 
t 

INTERESTED IN REPRESENTING THE t 
t

College of Science on the Academic 
t 

Council should submit Name and brief t . Statement of Purpose before Sept. 19th •• 
t 
to: 

Student Council t .c/o The Office of Dean of Science: 
Rm 229 Nieuwland Science 
--------------------------------------~~~·~·~·~··~~· j •••• "' 

T.G.I.F. DRAFTS 45• FRIDAY 3-7 

Are You Looking For 
•AUDITIONS 
.FOR SMC COFFEEHOUSE VOCAUSTS INSTRUMENTAUSTS AU.. TALENT WELCOME call Karen 4-4035 
Christian Fellowship 
Small Group Bible Sharing 
A Deeper Relationship With Christ · 
Then We Encourage You To Come To~ight to the Grace Hall Penthouse at 7:00 for COLLEGE LIFE Sponsored by Campus Crusade for Christ 
~bLOCK PARTY1() ,! '* 
featuring Sahara 




'f1' 

Stepan Basketball Courts 
( STEPAN IN CASE OF RAIN) 

Friday, Sept 9th 9-1 
refreshments available-so have a coke & mix with friends! 
Co~Sponsored by: Student UNion Social Commission & Keenan Hall .. . 
, .-o-.-• ,-r ,. r t' r·.­
t 


*The Observer 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's 
The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters are the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and letters are encouraged to promote the free expression of varying opinions on campus. 
BoxQ

Busines~ Manager Sue Quigley 
Notre Dame

Advertisirg Manager Steve Bonomo 
Ind. 46556Production Manager Karen Chiames 

EDITORIAL BOARD 

Marti Hogan Editor-in-Chief Martha Fanning Managing Editor Bob Brink Asst. Managing Ed. Kathy Mills Executive Editor Maureen Flynn Editorial Editor Barb Breitenstein Exec. News Editor Jean Powley St. Mary's Editor Katie Kerwin News Editor Rc;rb Langhenry News Editor Paul Stevenson Sports Editor Pat Cole Special Projects Ed. David O'Keefe Features Editor 
Photo Editor "Leo Hansen 
Friday, September 9, 1977 

Let Thein Know 
The Panama Canal treaty is now in the 
hands of the U.S. Senate, where the 
debate over ratification is already raging. 
When the issue comes to a vote early next 
year, an important factor in many a Senator's mind is bound to be the opinions •of his constituents. As Abraham lincoln (and this week, Gen. Torrijos of Panama) observed, "Statesmen think of future 
generations while politicians think of the 
next election.'' 

So far, Senate mail is reportedly nnning nine-to-one against the treaty. Unlms the situation changes, the odds are in favor of rejection: 67 Senators are needed to pass the treaty while only 33 Senators can kill it. 
Many opponents of the treaty simply 
argue, "We bought it, we built it, it's ours." Others have reservations about handing over the Canal to a military government. Another fear is that Panama (and thus the Canal) may drift ilto the 
communist camp. 

The Canal itself is clearly no longer a military or commercial asset: it can no longer handle the larger shi.JS that comprise a large part of modem fleets. 
Beyond that, the conditions under which 
the original Canal agreement was obtained 
rank among the most dishonorable epi­
sodes in American History. It is a product 
-and to the nations of Latin America an 
everlasting symbol -of an era of ruthless 
colonial exploitation. 

As long as the Canal question remains 
unresolved, any move towards closer 
cooperation among the American nations 
will be forestalled. It is this polarity that 
leaves a vacuum for another power, 
namely the Soviet Union, to exert its· 
influence in Latin America. 

Hopes for a more democratic-republican 
system of government in Latin American 
countries will suffer so long as the U.S., as 
the embodiment of that system retains 
control over the very symbol of colonial 
exploitation. 

Of course, we cannot be certain under 
what conditions this treaty will be fulfilled. 
Who can say what Panama or the United 
States or ·Russia or the world as a whole 
will be like in the year 2,000, when Panama 
would assume full control of the Canal? 
Short-range predictions are more reli­able, and officials have warned that failure to ratify the treaty could provoke guerrilla and terrorist attacks against the U.S. and its citizens. The experiences of Britain, Israel and South Africa with various terrorist organizations lend credence to this possibility. 
On the other hand, the ratification of the Panama Canal treaty may open the door to a new era of cooperation between the U.S. and her Latin American neighbors. The political and commercial benefits of such an alliance would far outweigh any advantages accruing to continued control of the Canal. 
The Panama Canal issue has become clouded by emotion and false pride, and the reactions have caused many U.S. Senators to walk cautiously and remain uncommitted until the voters have indicat­ed their wishes. It is difficult to believe that 90 percent of the American people have not grasped the implications of the Panama situation. More likely, supporters of the treaty have failed to grasp the importance of using their influence on their Senators. It is vital to the future of U.S.-Latin American relations that inform­ed voters write to their Senators, urging them to support the Canal treaty. 
If the neo-jingoists, "red · menace" alarmists and short-sighted patriots are not to CaiTY the day,: supporters pf the treaty must speak twice as \loud--plus one-­
as its opponents. 

oplnlon 


Soph~more Year Abroad 
Attendon, Freshmen: I would like to introduce all you freshmen to an exciting oppor­tunity in liberal education at Notre Dame; you can spend some time in another world! Whether your ob­jective here at N.D. is to get a job upon graduation or simply to find out who you are, you wouldn't believe in the value of a broad education. No matter what other goals might be fulfilled, that of expanding your awareness of the world around you remains the foremost goal of a Notre Dame education. The paths to this objective are as diverse as the people who follow them, and no single path is suited for everyone. The university does, however, offer one option that I think everyone should consider: foreign study. Try to imagine a better way of broadening your understanding of the world than living in another part of it. Studying and living in a foreign culture can open youreyes, not only to a different way of living, but to life itself. You deal with fellow human beings who were brought up, not only speaking languages which seem strange to you, but also with basic ideas and philosophies of life that may vary greatly from your own. The education and personal growth you experience is the result of a questioning of every aspect of your 
oplnlon 
own life and culture. 

Don't be frightened away from foreign study, however, visions of a year spent pondering life and all its secrets. Consider the exotic places you will see, the fascinating people you will meet, and the wild adventures you will have. You'll never have a better time in your entire life I 
If this sounds like a part of the liberal education you desire and the adventure you've always longed for, then you're in luck. The Foreign Studies Department of Notre Dame offers Sophomore Year Abroad programs in Austria, France, Italy, Mexico, and Japan, and you are eligible!You needn't be a language major,in fact, you needn't have ever studied the language before, and for most majors in Arts and Letters or Business your graduation won't even be delayed. · 
It's not too late to sign up for these programs! You must act now, however, as most of the programs require you to take a preparatory language course. You can get complete information from the Foreign Studies Office , room 304 O'Shaughnessy Hall. Ask for names of students who were in the program that interests you; they will all be very willing and even dying to tell you about their adventures I 
Danehy ·Legal Fund 

open letter 
This is an appeal directed to the entire Notre Dame community on behalf of Professor James P. Danehy. 
From April, 1976, through No­vember, 1976, Danehy carried on a rational and friendly exchange with the University administration in an attempt to gain continuation of his employment past his 65th birthday. 
When his efforts, and subsequent­ly those of his atorney (January and February, 1977), failed, he brought suit in Superior Court of St. Joseph County on February 28, 1977, asking for injunctive relief. Attor­neys for the administration then moved that the case be dismissed. Shortly thereafter change of venue to the Circuit Court of Starke County, Indiana, was granted. 
Danehy believes that termination of employment, in which age is the operative criterion, is arbitrary, discriminatory, and unjust. More­over, as the newpapers show almost daily, it is rapidly going out of date. Danehy did not initiate his court action simply to extend his own employment. More inportant­ly, he is challenging a policy which he believes to be morally wrong. Not only is he the first member of the Notre Dame faculty to do so; he is one of the first half-dozen professors in the U.S. A..to do so. Surely the protests of these few, whatever the outcomes for them­selvesr will make a real contribu­tion to lifting this disability from those who follow them. 
Danehy's case is far from set­tled. The judge has not yet ruled ori any substantive motions. Effectively, Danehy is unemployed now. The legal expenses, which he must meet, mount continuously. 

Last March almost two thousand students signed a petition on Danehy's behalf. We invite all the members of the Notre Dame com­munity to continue and to extend their support by contributing to the payment of his legal expenses. 
, Send your remittance, small or large, to: Danehy Legal Fund, Account No. 14874, Notre Dame Credit Union, P. 0. Box 7878, Notre Dame IN 46556. No draft from this fund will be made payable to Danehy, but only to direct payment of statements from his attorney and for other direct legal expenses. 
(The undersigned are students, recent graduates, and members of the faculty, both active and re­tired.) 
L. W. Ammann Ellen Barnes 
J. A. Barnes 
R. J. Barnes Scott Citino 
M. A. Connelly 
P. F. Conway 
S. B. Daugherty Steven Fitzmorris 
W. J. Ford 
A. F. Fransway 
M. W. Lambertus Bradley Marcotte 
K.b. O'Connell Irwin Pres~ 
R. W. Rauch Marshall Smelser 
L. F. Stauder William Tobler David Vinson 
K. F. Walsh 
J. A.Withum 
R. I. Zurcher William Toohey, C.S.C. 
L. J. Putz, C.S.C. 



~-------------·-----------------~-----------­
• • ,•,~~·~· o I ~l ,',',',' :· .'.',I:· '. ', 1•1 .·.·~~~. ,'.·:·:·:· .' ,',",' 
DOONESBURY by Garry Trudeau 


Goodbye Old Friend 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii art bu~r: hwald 
WAbiNGTON--Like everyone said that because the demand was for our own inve:stment. It wasn't 
else I used to have a friend at so great you were restricting sales easy. We loved New York City
the Chase Manhattan Bank. My of them to only your closest securities, and it broke our hearts 
friend's name was Chauncey and friend." every time we s•:>ld one." 
he was like a brother to me. "I might have said it as a joke," "Then you dMn't know the city 
When the recent Securities and Chauncey replied. was going broke:?" Exchange Commission's report "You were dead serious, "That's the most insulting ques­was published it turned out, accor­Chauncey. You didn't laugh tion I've ever heard. I'm glad ding to the SEC, that Chase once." David Rockefeller didn't take this Manhattan was selling New York ''All right, for argument's sake I call. You would have broken his City securities to its customers at might have said it. What do you heart. I thought we were friends.'' the same time it was unloading the want from me?" "I did too Ullltil I read the SEC ones it had kept for · its own ''Well, I just read the SEC report report. If I had a friend I wouldn't portfolio. on New York City and it claims that sell him securiti•es that I knew were 
I couldn't believe it so I called all the time Chase Manhattan was going down the drain." Chauncey. He wasn't there. touting New York securities it was "Well, if you feel that way about 
I called him again. After four unloading its own notes because it it," said Chauncey, "maybe we calls he finally picked up the phone knew the city was in a fiscal mess." shouldn't be friends any more." and said tersely, "I told you never There was dead silence on the "I don't know why you're getting to call me at the office." other end of the line. mad at me. I'm the one stuck with 
"Where am I supposed to call "Chauncey, are you still there?" the securities." 
you?" I wanted to know. "Yes, I'm here. I'm sure the "Friendship ils based on trust." What is it? I'm very busy." SEC report is mistaken. We would Chauncey told rne. "You stick by a "Chauncey, is that the way never do that to our customers. friend not only during the good 
to talk to a friend?" We're one of the largest banks in times but the bad ones as well. "We stopped that advertising the world." This call has hlllrt me very much. I campaign two years ago." "That's what I said when I never thought you would stoop so 
"That's what I'm calling about. bought $20,000 of the notes. I said low as to bring up something like Remember when you were my if Chase Manhattan recommends this. I don't think we should -see dearest friend four years back and them they must be good.'' each other any more." you called me and said you could "They were good at the time I "I'm sorry, Chauncey, I didn't sell me some of the finest munici­sold them to you," Chauncey said. mean to get you angry." pal securities money could buy?" "They just got bad as time went "It's too late to apologize. 
"I don't recall the conversa­by." You've ruined a beautiful relation­

Crediting
tion." "But why was Chase Manhattan ship. If you're: so petty as to let a 
"Well, I do. You said that New getting rid of its notes when it was lousy $20,000 investment in New York City was on a wave of new pushing them on its friends?" York City securities stand between prosperity and anyone who bought "We felt we owed it to our us, then we don't have anything its notes would never have to worry customers to let them buy them. more to say to c~ach other. And you 

Editing
about his financial future again." When the demand was greater can send back the toaster we gave I said that?" than the supply we had no choice you when yo111 opened your ac­"You certainly did. You also but to sell the ones we were holding .count." 
maureen flynn 

edit, v.t. (L. edltus, pp. of edere, last minute deletions of short, 
to give out, put forth, publish) To unimportant sections may be nec­superintend the publication of; to essary.
~~P.O. BOX Q-!~ prepare, as a book or paper, for the 
When such editing is done thepublic eye, by writing, selectin_g or remaining text wiD not containcorrecting the matter (Webster's eUpses or other Indications thatUnabridged Dictionary). 
material has been deleted. This is partying will be eliminated, while I double-checked the meaning of in keeping with the policy of most

Off-campus Qu·estion
the more serious and less visible the word "edit" this week, to professional newspapers and problems of theft , racial tension, assure myself that it was in no way
scapegoats 
magazines. Extensive editing orand muggings will persist. These the jJrocess connected to the words "butcher," editing of important material will
various crimes, as any off-campus "suppress," "distort," "plebei­not ordinarily be done withoutresident will attest to, are both anize," or "cut the hell out of." consulting the author. 
common and blatantly executed in
Dear Editor: My life-long belief that "editing"
this area. And students, of course, Dear studentli, via the Editor: It is therefore important that all
Question Why do students clus­is a positive function and not a form 
are the primary target of these contributors sign their names and
tered in front of bars arouse more You are goi:ng to be shafted, let it of literary sadism has been shaken 
crimes by token of the substandard give a phone number at which they 
public concern and police action be knownI Dean Roemer, that
housing they must accept. since I assumed the editorial than do numerous incidents of theft And so, once again students find shrewd and c!'aftY Dean of Students editor's position last March. I have can be reached. Names will be 
and mugging in this same area? is trying to cut down the committee withheld upon request, but no
that thev are the scapegoats -of since dealt with the incensed 
Answer: Because disgruntled appointed by your president to only anonymous contributions will be
South Bend citizens, police, slum-. authors of six-page manuscripts
neighbors and police who cannot three members, thereby reducing used.
lords, and last, but by no means who cannot understand why their effectively deter the criminal least of the University, which by the objectivity possible. He natur­Letters and columns may also be
columns cannot be run In toto, evenelement in this area must find 
ally would lik:e to limit your access
acting as a "surrogate parent" more incensed authors of letters edited for taste. This is necessarily another target -and students, 
to legal advilce, as what student
deprives us of our rights as both that were never printed, and snide a judgement ofthe editorial editor. 
basically cooperative and law­
knows much about the University
students and citizens of South postscripts to contributions instruc-Again, no extensive editing will beabiding, happen to be it. 
Bend. as it relate:s to the State and done without consulting the author. 
ing me to "withhold my name from It is almost inconceivalbe that 
thereby to !rou as citizens. Of 
this letter if you edit it in any way
students from Notre Dame and St. course, he would like to be the only The other targets for editing are
Barb Brenholts '77 

Mary's are being subjected to such one from the administration on the as I would not want to put my name spelling, grammar, punctuation
Bonnie Ford '79 on something I did not write."
intense discrimination and preju­and factual material. Minor errors 
on the committee so that the Board 
dice by the citizens of South Bend. (the wrong date of an even~, the
To avoid misunderstandings on
of Trustees will see only the
By token of the on-campus the nature of "editing" and the wrong name for an organization)
finished document and not thehousing shortage, many students "real" show of a more-than-likely criteria used in choosing material will be altered within the body of are literally forced to obtain off­· the letter or column. Major e!Tors 


No mud path 
for this page, I would like to outline 
attempt to threaten and to subju­
campus housing in less and remarks requiring explanation 
the ground rules now. Please clip
gate student attempts to affect the
than suitable dwellings. Is it fair this for future reference. will either be brought to the
very judicial process which effects
then, that these same students, 

this spring 

attention of the author or clarifiedthem (you)! 
Contributions to this page
many of whom lack transportation in an editor's note following the 
and must walk through bad neigh­Fight Back! Question the pro­generally take one of three forms: piece.borhoods to reach campus (for letters, columns or cartoons.
cess which determines your free-· 
''administration-approved'' activi­Dear Edltorz It is unfortunately impossible to
dom and your rights. (by the way, . They should deal with some topic
ties), should have their every other When I returned to the Notre you do have rights as students, and of interest to the ND-SMC com­print all contributions in the limited social outlet curtailed? The Uni-Dame campus this semester, there you should fight to be free as well munity, but need not be connected space available. Priority will be 
came to my attention a combined
versity provides virtually no acces­as fight to be treated as adults]. to campus news and eventS per •· given to well-written items of 
work of man and nature. To some
sible activities for students living current interest that are well­
fellow students, I am sur~ this But if you choose not to say Cartoons may vary in siie, but
off-campus. The bars, however, reasoned and/or humorous and 
remarkable feat went unnoticed. anything, tltten I lament not only should be drawn in black ink on
are within easy walking distance that meet the specifications for 
What I am referring to is the that you have accepted defeat and sturdy, plain white paper and
and afford excellent opportunity for length. When many letters are
regrowth of the grass on the south have relinquished the rights to should be clearly legible when
socialization, as do the off-campus received on the same subject,parties. side of Memorial Library. In case proper and civil justice, but also photographically reduced to the representative samples of all viewsome have forgotten, there once that you don't want to act or size of a "Doonesbury" strip or an
Even so, it is more than likely points will be selected.
existed a footpath for students who exercise your own powers, thereby ·that students will defer to requests "Oliphant" cartoon.
wished to economize on their time. showing your mettle. 
Any contributor who feels that:·that they conduct their "congrega­Now, it is up to the student body Letters should be no longer than his letter or column has beentions", "social functions", etc. (no pun intended) to maintain the You have power, but sleeping one-page, typed double-spaced, or "butchered" or "distorted" rathermore peacefully; some may even present landscape so that by the giants cannot do anything. Awake! 
the hand-printed equivalent. than edited will be given the acquiesce to the "no bar hopping, time spring rolls around it will not Think! Look! Question! Act to­gether! Columns should be no longer than opportunity to "c~t the hell out of''no parties at all" suggestions. And become another mud path. So two pages. Letters and columns me or to demand satisfaction inwhat will have been accomplished? please, KEEP OFF THE GRASSl exceeding these limits will be cut to print. University regulations pro-. 
Jim Thomas Freddy Slebenmann All of the innocent-and harmless meet space limitations. Likewise, hibit dueling. 

Friday, September 9, 1977
the observer 

Letters to a Lonely God 

Life Being Father 


Reverend Robert Griffin 
Peck] and General Kenney the New Guinea campaign in 
I think that if God were to say: ''I'm taking it all back: the twenty-three years of priesthood; the dozen upon dozens of marriages numbering into the thousands you have blessed; the baptisms signing a thousand or two infants with the signature of Christ their Saviour; the daily Eucharists and the pardoning words of absolution destroying the bonds of sin; and the thousand conversations of comfort that a priest is allowed to speak as a gift from his Lord to the Church" --I think if God were to say, "I'm taking all of it back, and giving you a different life in its place,'' I ~ould answer without regret or complaint: 
'Give me sons and daughters by the 
•ouseful, and I'll not miss the beauJy,"
W)len I go into restaurants or DiSney­
and, I watch the families with young 
hildren enjoying themselves in their 
'arying moods of humor and mischief and 
:risis, and of self-conscious solemnity, if ;hey suspect they are being watched. 
When I go to churches where I am sitting in 
the bleachers as a lay Catholic, without duty or ministry on the altar, I keep close to parents who have lined up their children beside them in the pews. As celebrant, I watch their faces from the comer of my eye, loving the freckles and the hair color and the nose shape and curve of the cheek that make boys and girls, father and_ mother, into a matching set of related people. I'm never jealous of tycoons or oil barons or successful novelist or actors who annually trade in their sexy wives as though marriage were a business done with credit cards. I've never wanted to be pope or provost; but offer me the chance to be papa to a dozen kids, and I'd be tempted. I'd have to turn the offer down because of prior commitments with which I am very happy; but I would often wonder if I hadn't chosen the lesser holiness by remaining with the ordained life. 
Feeling as strongly as I do about family life, I was in a mood to get cross with God at the news Dennis had to teJJ me this slimmer. Dennis had invited me to lunch 
The Weeksworth 
on the tube: 

Washington: Behind Closed Doon (Fri­day, Saturday, Sunday, 8:00pm, channel 28): This weekend will mark the merciful conclusion of yet another job of negligent showmanship by ABC's Fred Silverman: The pre-release publicity finally intensified to the point where people now feel an obligation to tune in for fear of missing the most recent "history-making" television program. All the unnecessary anonymity and love subplots really ruin the studied realism of the show, as well as a cunning portrayal of Nixon by the fine actor, Jason Robards. Government Majors ought to tune in anyways, for it will most likely appear on one of your finals. Midnight Special (Friday, !2:00am, 16): If you happen to tune in at the right time, you stand a fair chance of catching either Neil Young singing "Like a Hurricane" from his latest, "American Stars and Bars", or you might happen on David Bowie doing "Fame". Good luck. 
~or uague Bueball (Saturday, 1:15pm,' 16): The fading Tigers take on the Red Sox in Fenway Park. The back-up game, in case of rain, will be the Mets and Cubs. 
Remember the Cubs? CGUege Football (Saturday, 2:45, 28): Guess who open's the season on national tube against the reigning champs. Guess who got picked number one? Guess who's got Ro~s Browner. Guess who's gonna win. Dirty RIUTJ· ~Saturday, 8:00pm, 16): Clint Eastwood blows away a lot of people in San Francisco. He plays a cop. 60 'Minutes (Sunday, 6:00pm, 22): Mike Wallace interviews Henry Kyemba, a former minister in the government of 
at the New York Athletic Club overlookiJyZ 
Central Park South. I had never been 
invited to the NYAC before, mostly I 
believe because you have to be enormously 
successful to hold membership there. (I 
have never been enormously successful.) 
But Dennis is enormously successful, 
being president of his own firm of 
accountants. Like me, he is middle-aged; 
an Irishman fuJI of grace, with a face that a 
priest should have if he is teaching poetry. 
He is the father of six children, five girls 
and a boy; the youngest child, eleven, 
being the boy. Sadly enough, the news 
Den_nis had to tell me is that he is seriously 
ill with leukemia. "Dammit, God," I 
thought to myself, "why do you have to 
mess up your own best handiwork?" 
"I have gotten the boy a dog," he said. 
'My wife was against it, but I wanted him 
to have a dog to grow up with." He had 
always told me he wanted to get a dog for 
young Dennis. I suspect that giving the lad 
a dog was what he did because he couldn't 
give him a brother. 

I nodded my head in approval. "Ithink a · kid has a better chance at decency if he 
grows up with a dog to look after," I said 
fatuously. It was not an easy conversation. 
"I thought of sending him away to 
school," he said,"but he's still so young, 
and I am selfish. I enjoy having him 
around." Young Dennis is the apple of his 
father's eye. Dennis wants to do good 
things for his son; to protect him from the 
future; the problem is, he doesn't know 
what good things to do. 

"The girls," he said, "are older. They 
do pretty much what they want to do, 
hitchhiking around, backpacking, sleeping 
out on beaches. There's not a damn thing I 
can do about it." 

"Do they know about your illness? I 
asked. 

"They know about it," he said, "but I don't think they believe it. My wife doesn't believe it. She believed it for a little while, and got very scared, so she stopped believing it. Now she's spendinu 
all her time opening up a ceramics shop." 
by david okeefe 
now eats human flesh. Do you ever wonder what his mother was like? As tor the rest of the week, this is, ot course, the beginning of yet another new season in television. It is a matter better left undiscussed. But let us point out that Richard Pryor has begun a comedy-variety series that will premier Tuesday night at 7:00pm on channel 16. 


on the screen: 
Outlaw Blues (Boiler House 1) The Car (Boiler House 2) Final Chapter: Walking TaU (Town & Country 1) You Light Up My Life (Town & Country 2) One On One (River Park) Kung Fo Gold and Journey Into the Beyond (Mall Theater) The Spy Who Loved Me (Scottsdale) Star WIU'8 (Forum 1) MacArthur (Forum 2) 
.on campus: 
Mahogany (Friday, 7,9,11, Eng Aud, $1) Diana Ross stars as a seamstress-turned designer-turned-model who needs a strong shoulder from Billy Dee Williams to help her handle the big time. Quite good, and quite overlooked when it was released, Mahogany also stars Anthony Perkins as a psychotic photographer. I've never seen Anthony Perkins play anything but men with serious mental disorders. CGol Hand Luke (Saturday and Sunday, 7, 9:15, 11:15, Eng Aud, $1): Paul Newman steals the show as Luke, a chain-gang hero whose refusal to give in to their keepers gains him the respect of his fellow 
"Dennis," I said, "looking at you, it's 
hard to believe that you are ill." 
"I don't feel sick," he said, "but the 
doctors teJJ me about the life expectancies 
of someone in my condition. In the end, 
it's the life expectancies that kill you." 
I wondered what the life expectancies 
were. "I've got from one to three years," 
he said. 

"In a world where there are women 
drivers,'' I said, ''and miracles are claimed 
for Laetrile, schedules for the last exit are 
always chancey. You may outlive me by 
twenty years." 
"The problem of being a father," he said, "is that your kids don't believe you can do anything for them. One of my girls was having trouble getting courses, and she was on the point ofleaving coJJege. AJJ I had to do was to pick up the phone and caJJ Columbia, and I got her into the courses she wanted. She had been trying to get in to see the Dean for months, and all I had to do was make a phone call. Only she never asked me until it was almost too late, because she didn't know I could help her." 
"I'm sure she must have been impres­sed with your connections at C.'llumbia," I said. 
"My girls are not impressed with anything I have or do," he said. "They don't like this place", indicating by a gesture of the hands his children's displeasure at the entire NYAC, which seemed to me like sacrilege on their part. "They think it's wrong to belong to a place like this. They think it's on-American to be a member of exclusive country clubs. They say it's undemocratic." 
In my mind, I could imagine Dennis' girls lining up as a bunch of backpacking Commies, shaking their fists at, or being bitterly contemptuous of, the pleasant perquisites of being wealthy. 
"I don't think it's wrong to belong to country clubs", he said, "but you lose a lot of the fun of it, if you can't share it with 
your wife and kids." 
He looked up at me and smiled, and his 
face was full of peace. "Thanks for letting 
me dump on you," he said. "I'm not the 
least bit afraid, and I don't feel sorry for 
myself. I'm just curious about what the 
future may bring." 
"The future holds mysteries for all of 
us," I said enigmatically, enigmas being 
what I use in place of depth. 
"One thing," he said, "about the boy. 
have a few plans for him, but I don't know 
how much time we have together. I'd love 
to see him go to Notre D~me." 
"Ithink I'd love to see your son at Notre 
Dame, Dennis,' I said. 
"I've never met anyone from Notre 
Dame," he said,"whom I haven't felt I 
would like to invite home for supper. 
That's kind of a test, isn't it, judging 
whether you'd like to invite someone 
home to supper?" 
To tell the truth, I almost hesitated to mention what he said about Notre Dame, lest it seem like a point I've been working up to. Like it or not, we are people considered worthy of being present when the wine is passed; ours is a school fit for the cherishing of the fatherless child. 
"You have a golf course at Notre Dame," he said, "I've seen it." 
I nodded assent. 
"The boy goes with me every Saturday to the Club," he said. "He loves the game. He should be pretty good by the time he gets to Notre Dame." 
IfGod were to take back all twenty-three years since my ordination, and replace them with the care of a family, I would not feel cheated of beauty. I have felt this in a dozen homes this summer. I have known it whenever I have seen families together. It must be God-like to watch the strong, straight images of one's self and one's spouse, begotten in intimacy and raised up in grace and sheltered in all the places where love can reach. 
It must, like ordination itself, be a blessed state. But I have never, ever, thought any of it would be easy. 
.-· 

General MacArthur [Gregory [Walter Miles] at front during 
Uganda's Idi Amin, a former boxer.who -.-....-.... -.--.---.. -... --.. --~'.¥!1~~-r!~~~-:· 


A nge/a dedication (con 't) 
3:00­3:30p.m. 
5:30­6:30p.m. 
8:00p.m. 
Sunday, Sept. 11 
9:30­10:00 a.m.  "COMMUNITY RECREATION" -John Boruff -Assistant Supervisor, South Bend Parks and Recreation  
"SPORTS  AND  RELIGION"  Sister  Katherine  
Reichert C.S.C.  -Director, Campus Ministry, Saint  
Mary's College; former Minnesota Golf Champion  
10:00  - FENCING CLINIC-Michael DeCicco-Coach ot the  

11:00 a.m. University of Notre Dame Fencing Team 
Nazz to open 

with Sat. jam 
by Dave Rombach Staff Reporter 

The Nazz will open its 1977-78 season of nightly programs tomor­row at 8 p.m. with an open jazz jam, announced Nazz manager Enrique Lulli. 
Music will continue until mid­night and anyone wishing to per­form need only "show up with their instruments," according to John Flaherty, Nazz entertainment dir­ector. Refreshments including cokes, sandwiches and coffee will be available. 
Flaherty is currently searching for performers to ftll the Nazz's nightly schedule of programs. Starting Monday the Nazz will open Monday through Saturday from 9 to 12 p.m. 
Flaherty has openings for perfor­mers on all weeknights next week. Anyone interested can contact Fla­herty at 1575. 

Recycling project to start Sunday 
by Barb Langhenry News Editor 

A campus-wide paper recycling project will begin Sunday, Sept. 18, under the direction of the ND Student Government and St. Mary's halls. Therecycling project was approved yesterday by Bro. Just Paczesny, vice-president for Students Affairs. 
The project is being started for 
environmental purposes, Student 
Government Administrative Assis­
tant John Ryan explained. He 
added that any money earned will 
be given to Volunteer Services, 
who is donating the use of their 
vehicle. Student government plans 
to continue the project on a weekly 
basis. 
Students at Notre Dame and St. 
Mary's are instructed to place their 
newspapers outside their doors. 
Volunteers from each hall will 
gather their hall's papers, which 
will then be collected on Sunday 
nights. The papers will be taken to 
South Bend Waste Company where 
they are worth $1.25 per 100 
pounds. 
Persons who want to volunteer to 
collect the papers in their hall may 
do so at the student government 
booth on Monday at Activities 
night. 
Ryan expressed hope that Stu­
dent Union Services Commision or 
In Pirg will assume the responsibil­
ity for the project once it is started. 
"Student union handles more of 
these types of services and it is out 
of character for us (student govern­
ment)," Ryan noted. He added 
that he sees it as a service type 
operation. 



zzzzz.. 


GOLF CLINIC-"Irons and Woods"-Patty Berg 
TENNIS  CLINIC  -"Stroke  Correction"  -Joan  
Ramey,  owner  and  director  of  Ramey  Tennis  
Schools.  Come dressed to play.  

MODERN DANCE CLINIC -Dance Kaleidoscope, Laura Elmore, artisic director 
DANCE KALEIDOSCOPE performance-O'Laughl­in Auditorium 
: ·-TIMM PARTY S1,0RE : -SUNDAY M.'-\SSI::S 
MAIN CHURCH
!OPEN: MON-SAT 9 M•-11 pm: j 
5:15pm Saturday REV. ROBERT GRIFFIN : SUNDAy 12 noon -11 pm : i 9:30 am Sunday REV. JAMES BURBANK 
; BEER SAllE :. 
: .. 3114 S. 11 ST. NILES, MICIDGAN: 
• : 

1 Block North of state line on U.. S. 31 • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •• • • • • • • • : 
' • t • • • ' • o ., I • "' 
-.... -....."..'/..'.•..·...-.·-·.-_._._. 
Friday, September 9, 1977 the observer 9 
By Farnter's Almanac 
B-itter weather predicted 
• LEWISTON, Maine [AP] -Keep your long johns handy -the Farmers' Almanac says the coming winter is going to be a bitter one. 
"For 1977-1977, we show anoth­
er rough winter, with cold and 
snow aplenty although not as bad 
as the winter j111st past," says the 
almanac's 161st annual edition, 
just off the presses. 
The venerable publication was 
right on target last year when it 
forecast "a big, bad winter," 
followed by a "scorchingly hot" 
summer. 
"We predicted it first," crows 
Almanac editor Ray Geiger, 67, 
who obtains his forecasts from 
Harry K. Buie, a retired astronom­
er and school administrator in 
Inverness, Fla. 
"He uses a secret formula, 
10:45amSunday REV.mEODOREHESBURGH 1 (formal opening Mass) 
12 15
: pm Sunday REV. WIUJAM TOOHEY Vespers wDI be at 7:15pm In the main church. 
~===Th=e=C=el~e~b~r~an=t=wDI==b=e=Re=v=.~Th~e=o=d=ore~=H=e=s=b=urg=h=.='=.• 
passed down since the Almanac was-founded in 1818,'' says Geiger. 
"It's based on sunspots, the position of the planets and the tidal action of the moon." 
The Almanac has been isuing forecasts 52 years longer than the National Weather Service, says Geiger, who rarely passes up an opportunity for a good-natured jab at the government-run bureau. 
"We call them a 'nonprophet' agency," he sl)rs. 
Despite the Almanac's warning of a cold and snowy winter, its long range prognostications offer the prospect of relief from extremes of heat and cold. 
The summer of 1978, says Geig­er, will be "moderate and more pleasant. It won't be quite as hot or quite as dry as it was this 
Match the proper colors to the clues shown below. 
1. 
London's Fang _____ 

2. 
Beatles' Fields ____,__ 

3. 
Chandler's Dahlia ____ 

4. 
School's Board----­.5. Calcutta's Hole ____ 


6. 
Pope's Helper____ 

7. 
Wambaugh's Knight ____ 

8. 
High-class Blood---­

9. 
Capri's Grotto _____ 

10. 
Hugo's Pimpernel _____ 

11. 
Gainsborough's Boy ____ 

12. 
Robin Hood's wm___ 

13. 
Kaaba's Stone 


14. 
Duke's Mood---­




When there's a challenge, quality makes the difference. 
We hope you have some fun with the challenge. Pabst Blue Ribbon is the Number 1 beer in Milwaukee. be8r capital of tile world. 
That's why we'd like to offer you another challenge -the Pabst challenge. Taste and compare Pabst Blue Ribbon to any other premium beer. You'll like Pabst because Blue Ribbon quality means the best-tasting beer you can get. Since 1844 it always has. 
PABST. Since 1844. The quality has always come through .. 
PABST BREWING COMPANY, Milwaukee, Wis., Peoria Heights, IlL, Newark, N.J., Los Angeles, Calif., Pabst, Georgia 
0810NI v~ ')I:)V18'£~ 13li:IV:.lS i:~ 3n18 ~~ J.3li:IV:.lS ·o~ ·3n1s 6 3n18 8 3n18 'L lVNIOI:IV:.l ·g ')l:)'lf18 ·g ')I:)V18 17 ·3n1s ·e; A1:11:138MVI:I1S i: '311HM. ~ :J&MSUV 
summer.·· 
And in another year or two there 
will be a. mild winter, he says. ~ 
In addition to weather informa­
tion, this year's Almanac is filled 
with the usual blend of homespun 
homilies, one-line jokes, inspira­
tional essays and recipes, including 
ones for a "concrete" pecan pie 
and hot tuna dogs. 
. I •

SMC Law Soctety to meet Sunday 
This year's first meeting of the 
St. Mary's Law Society will be held 'on Sunday at 6:30 p.m. in 161 LeMans. The meeting is open to all underclassmen. Refreshments will be served, and new members are 
encouraged to attend. 



Carter cites ca'!ses of.p/umm~~!ng pOpularity 
WASHINGTON • President Carter, confron~ed by~ drop~ his national populanty rating, sa1d yesterday allegations about his budget ~c-tor, Bert Lance, as well as m-c~~ased u~employment, the oppo­s1tion to h1s Panama Canal treaty 

Carter also blamed controver­sial matters like welfare reform, energy problems and increasedtaxatio~, on some kinds of energy sources for the drop of 17 percentage points in his popularity as measured by the Harris poll'. 
Affairs Committee as it reopened conflict of ihterest hearings on Lance. 
The comptroller, who regulates the nation's banks, emphasized that his reports on Lance's banking activities have only covered their 
my ac~vlties. . President Carter said, "my faith m the character and competence of Bert Lane~ has been reco~ed.'' 
!Meanwhile, a new Harris Survey found ~ sharp drop in Carter's populanty. In the Aug.13-20 
approved and 27 per cent were undecided. 
The survey noted that a deer in popularity at this stage of a n~: administration is not uncommon 
Meantime, the Boston He~d Amerlcall reported that Lance 
and inflation are to blame. 


Pitt approaches for Notre Dame 
[continued from page 12] attack, however, they will probably favor the run. What if the Irish were to fall behind? "Last year we played Pitt with much the same team," Orsini remarked. "We are much the ter prepared this year. If we were to fall behind, that's where exper­ience sJ:eps in, because we know we can do it." The game tomorrow may be the most important game the Irish will have to play this year. Many say that Notre Dame is truly number­one, but this Saturday they will have the opportunity to prove it to themselves. With four captains like the Irish have this season, the leadership and guidance will be a factor which swings in favor of the Irish. 
The President said anew that L_ance ou~ht-to have a comprehen­s1v~ heanng before Congress. 
I'm very eager to see the testimony...," Carter declared. "There has never been any doubt 

in my mind that the outcome of theseinvestigationswillbenotonly proper but also will be well 
accepted by the American people." 

The President spoke to reporters after bidding farewell to the last of several Latin American heads of state who visited him in the Oval Office at the White House. The 


I $150
I 

Regular Menu Price I One Coupon Per Pizza I 
IANY FAMILy SIZE PIZZ~ I THICK OR THIN CRUST 1 

Expires Sept. 13, 1977 
ALL MAJOR SPORTS ON 7FT T.V. 
Sunday Beer! 
BEER AND WINE 7 DAYS A WEEK 
5 to 7:30 Mon.-Tues.-Wed. 
Pizza-Chicken-Spaghetti-Salad 
All You Care To Eat 
-~ 




ND-SMC JUNIORS!! 
GET TOGETHER AT WARREN DUNES 
SundaY afternoon Sept. 11

...I 
! maps in 
Student Activities NO-Lafortune SMC-LeMans 
Parking-$2 
Bus ride-$2 
sign up in Student Activities


government leaders were here for the tions about multi-million dollar 
signing of the Panama Canal treaty. · 

Earlier in the day, the John G. Heimann, comptroller of the cur­rency, toldCongress dis reporet last month did not clear Lance of 
financial improprieties, even though it found no evidence of illegality. Lance had claimed it did clear him. 
"That certainly wasn't our asser­tion. That is not in my opinion a judgment I acan make " Heimann told the Senate G~vernmental 
OFF 

II 
legality, not their ethics. Heimann said that although Lance's banking practices in 
Georgia were faulty, he would have recommended Lance as budget director as long as the problems 
were corrected. 

Lance wa_s a very successful 
banker. His attention to detail . 
lea yes something to be des.ired," said to return T0 ngsun park
Heimann, who took office m July. 
Heimann's Aug. 18 rel?ort said he had uncovered nothmg that "warrants the prosecution of any individuals," but it raised ques­
personal loans Lance obtained from banks in New York and Chicago, 
and r~peate~ overdraft~ by L~ce and h1s family on thetr checking accounts. . . 
The report also mvtted Congress to r:-e:x;amine exist?tg banking laws m hght of Lances case. 
Lance said on Aug. 17 tht he was 
confident the comptroller would ~gree "I .?ave not done anything Improper. 
After the report's release, Lance called it "a very favorable report on 
OBSERVER FEATURES NEEDS WRITERS!!' 
If YOU like to write and have an interest in things artistic, cultural, or off -beat, call us at 7471 or sign up on Activities Night. 
We might be what you're looking for. 
HE WANT$ TO JOIN 11-IE PAGK. 
CLAIM~ HE~ ABARREL Cf FUN. 


CALL BILL GAUDREAU 283-7454 
........................ .,; ...... . 

survey, _52 per cent of ~e respon-plans to resign after defending~entssald Carter~as domg a good himself before lthe governmental JOb, compared wtth 69 per cent at affairs committee, chaired by Sen. ~e end of July. a~d 40 pe! cent Abraham Ribicoff (D-Conn). The f.:p~rov;~ C~er s 3~andhng of paper quoted sources it said were 
ce s c es; per cent close to Ribicoff.
c rt k S :h
a er as s out Korea 
haveTongsun Park returned. 

WASHINGTON [AP] ·President "We are clearly asking them Carter has asked South Korea to because we think they have the return indicted businessman Tong-authority to make him available," 
sun Park to the United States, he said. emphasizing the importance the Earlier, South Korean Foreign case may have on U.S. relations Minister Park Tong-jim told a news 
with Seoul, U.S. officials said conference in Seoul the Korea yesterday· government tried and failed to 
The officials said Carter's re-persuade Tongsun Park to return to quest to return Tongsun Park, the United States, but said it in~icted in alleged attempts to cannot force him to go. 
· bnbe U.S. congressmen, was made He said Park made clear that he in a letter to South Korean Presi-had no intention of coming back to dent Park Chunghee. the United States. 
Sta!e Departm~nt spokesman The Wuhlagton Post first re-Hoddmg Carter said he understood ported that Carter had sent a the letter had been sent and that it personal letter to President Park ~oncemed diplomatic eff~rts to asking for Tongsun Park's return. 



the .observer 11 



Lewis Telethon raise!; over $26 million for MD 
by Valerie Stefani 

A summer long fund-raising drive for the Muscular Dystrophy Association (MDA) culminated this past week-end in the Jerry Lewis Telethon. Televised locally on WSJV-TV, the telethon succeeded 
NOTICES 
Byzantine Catholic and Eastern Orthodox students at NO and SMC as well as any others interested in Byzantine church life should stop at the Campus Ministry Office (Mem­orial Library, near main entrance) before September 16 to sign the list at the secretary's desk. Attempts are being made to organize a Byzantine Christian organization. 
Any desiring photos of Unda Rons­tadt taken in concert Monday, Aug. 29 (color or blackl,Whltel please contact John at 8340 or 136 Zahm. 

Any desiring photos of Linda Rons­tadt taken in concert Monday, Aug. 29 (color or black and white) please contact John at 8340 or 136 Zah m. 
Going to Pittsburgh? Looking for something to do Sat. after the game? Party at Hutch's. Stop by 224 Dillon for directions 
Typing. Reasonable rates. Call 8051 
Sewing repairs. Reasonable. Call 8051 
FOR RENT 
Will share my house a mile from ND with graduate student or faculty member. Your own bedroom end study. Sex, sex orientation not a consideration. $1251/month Includes turnish ings, utilities. 289-1798 7-10 
p.m. or all Saturday. 
Country house for rent for 1 to 3 students. 10 minutes from NO campus. Phone 277-3604 
LOST AND FOUND 

LOST DOGshephard-husky gold, black and white Lincoln Way, Por­tage area very special. Call Becky 232-6362 
Lost: Set of keys in brown case. Seven assorted keys, lost between D-1-Keenan-Walsh. PLEASE call 8051. 
LOST:skindiver watch with brown leather band. Please call Mike 8889 137 Zahm. 
Lost wallet with 10 Satuday night between Engineering Auditorium and Grace Hall. Useless to anyone else. Call Tom 6713 Reward. 
Lost set of keys on ring, between O'Shag-Ad Bldg. -Huddle-Lib. on Wed. Aug. 31. Leather tab with blue flowers. Teresa, 7734. 
Found on sidewalk 1976 Holy Cross Preparatory Class ring Call Denise 4-5402. 
WANTED 

Wanted: two tickets to Michigan State game, either GA or Student ticket. Call Mark 1436. 
Desperately need GA tickets to 
Michigan State and Southern Cal. 
Will pay good $. Call Paul 1470. 
Desperately need 1 ticket to Mich­igan or So. Cal. Call Dame 3542. 
Classified· ad rates 
RATES. Classified ads are billed according to the chart below. NUMBER OF DA.\'S • 1 
2 3 4 
(I) -.5 
0 t. 1-10 1,00 1.30 1.55 1.75 2.00 0 0::: 1.1-15 1.35. 1.85 2.25 2.50 2.85 ~ 16-20 1.65 2..30 2.55 2.95 3.20 1.1. 21-25 2.05 2.90 3.50 4.25 4.900 0::: 26-30 2.45 3.50 4.25 5.15 5.90 w 31·35 2.80 4.00 4.75 5.85 8.20CD 3.15 4.55 5.:S5 7..10 8.65
36:40 
~ 

:J 41-45 3.40 5.05 6.~0 7.45. 9.40 
z 46-50 

3.90 .5.55 6.90 8.20 '10.2(); 
DEADLINE. All classifieds must be received by 
5:00 pm, two days prior to the issue in which the ad is to run. The Observer office will accept classifieds Monday through Friday, 10 :00 am to 5:00pm. 
PAYMENT. All classifieds must be pre-paid, either in person or through the mail. 
in raising $26,000,490 nationally. a 24 per cent increase over last year's figure. South Bend also increased its collection by raising $216,348. 
Approximately 81.6 per cent of the funds go toward special ser­vices. Such services include re­search, medical and professional training, and public information. 
Class~fieds 

Need urgently two roomates for Campus View Apartment-prefer age 22 years call Henri 277-1983. 
Urgently needed! 6 USC tix. Will Pay top$$ Call Hutch 1692. 
Need two GA Pitt tickets Call Paula 4-5732. 
Wanted-Two Pitt tickets. Call Bob 8330. 
Need GA and Student football tix to any home game. Call 8051. 
Wanted: Michigan State tickets­General Admission, preferably. Will pay Call 4-4001 and ask for Jeanne or Mo. 
WANTED: 4 GA tickets for South­ern Cal. Will pay good buckS. CAll 1423, ask for Mike. 
Need ride for two to Milwaukee, Sat. Sept. 10. Return trip If available. Call Steve 1037 
Desperately need tickets to Mich­igan State and Southern Cal. Please call Marianne at 1262. 
Help Wanted. Service SWion attendants. Apply at 4902 We\lem AVe. Clark Carwash. 
ATTENTION MUSICIANS$ Inter­ested in sharing your talents? The "cellar" now looking for talent. Call 3313 or3338. 
Please I need four Michigan tickets CAll Alicia 8117. 
4 G.A. FOOTBALL TICKETS. NO­SO. CAL TOGETHEROR2 AND2. Call 288-1884. 
1want to trade 4 Purdue-NO football tix for 4 NO-Michigan State tix. Call 277-3604. 
Need ride to and form Electric Rodeo Concert-Saturday, Call Irene. 6733. 
Wanted: NO-Mississippi Tix Very Important. Call Greg 8788. 
Wanted: 3 Purdue-NO Tickets. 
Please call 4101 or 5431. 
Wanted: Two tix for Purdue. Will pay good buckS. 234-2999. 
Wanted: 1 Pitt ticket. Call Ken at 1424. 
Need Ride to Cincinnati or vicinity, Sept. 23. Call 6964. 
Wanted: 5 USC tickets. Call Paul at 1424. 
Frantically need 2 G.A. tickets for Michigan State. Pay big buckS. CAll Mike 1170. 
Fund-raising costs account for 14.3 
per cent of the money while 
administrative expenses account 
for 4.1 per cent. Varied fund-raising events took place throughout the summer. Seven-Eleven stores held a two­part nation-wide drive for the MDA. The first part, the "Your 
Julio's need:; delivery personnel. Part time or full time. Guarantee 3.00 per hou1r. Call 233-2354. 
Help Wanted Resident Student cashier and IJSher must be able to work nights, weekends and holidays Hourly wage• Apply in person to Mario Randazzo, Foruj Cinema 52709 u.s. 3·1 North. 
Will trade 2 Georgia Tech or 2 Army for 2 Southem Cal. All GA. Paula 6354 
BIG MONEY FOR 4GA TIX TO M ICH STATilo. CALL Jacob 8720 
Desperately need 1 student ticket to Michigan State. Please call 4-4894. 
I=ORSALE 
Sansu: Receiver 5150 watts. Garrard Turntable. Shure cartridge. Pion­eer 3-way speakers. Teac Reel to Reel Accessories. 8338. 
FOR SALE:Panasonic 8 track re­corder excelhmt condition. $100 or best offer. Call Brian 8760. 
Navajo jewelry for sale: choker and earring sets, silver and penshell hieshi with turq uoise and coral stones. Wide selection -CAll Jim 6805 
adidas-"On c:ampus" complete line for all sports. Call Bill 3078. 
For Sale: Gold and White Shag 
Carpet. Room size. Call 8031. 
Dissecting 1;ets, supplementary Chein, Bio TextbookS. Science Labware, equipment, instruments Call 8785 fo1· more info. Merrell Scientific 
Corningware electric percolators (coffee pots) SOI/40ff call 2985 

172 Triumph spitfire, must sacrifice $1300 or best offer 232-3276 after 5. 
Texas Instruments SR-56 Program­mable Calculator with applications library, coding forms, operating manual A clf.OCadapter-charger. Two months old. :!77-1606 after 6:00pm. 
PI:RSONALS 
Kase I lust for you'r seethingly sensuous Bod! 
A 

Kinky Sex? Come and see Froday night in 70. 
STU DENTS FROM Seattle PORTLAND !UNITE! ORGANIZA+ TION OF A NORTHWEST CLUB IS UNDERWAY -iiF YOU'RE INTER+ ESTED IN IIRINGING A LITTLE MORE OF THE BEAUTIFUL NORTHWES'rTO N.D., WE NEED YOU INPUT+ DROP A LINE TO PAUL AT P.CI.BOX 603 Notr Dame, Ind. 46556. 
Looking for ff!male student to share apartment a1· Castle Pl. $85 per month Call 2i'2-1044. 
Lowest Rate!; on Campus, Time, Sports lllustrated.Call Time or Bob after 5 pm. 272-0239. Money and Fortune also availabe. 
Gay Commun1ity of N.D. Gay guide to N.D. 1;5.B. $1.00. Pandora's or Box 206 N.D. Call8870 Fri. and Sat. 10-12 p.m. 
Mary It's great to !iee my only custromer bak. Wish you could stay. 
Love, Mystic Fingers 

Need ride to Cleveland for Friday, Sept. 16. Calli Kathy 1264. 
Dear Blue Eyes­1 wish I was meeting you In Pitt, but don't wonry. I Intend to keep my promise forever! 
Miss you mucho, baby! Your onliest Princess 

Chris Gilson, A.A.B.E.E. Another birthday has come and gone YouZre a year older, but-Are you better??'??Guess well have to wait until June rolls around to find out! When in Rome ... Happy B-day Frenchiel 
Rose, Lynn, Marybeth, Nina, Helen 

Magpie: Happy Number 7 Twitchy Nose 
ThankS to everyone who made my 20th the BES1r birthday ever! Panty raid serenadE!, party and all. And special than~:s to Mary, Martha, Virginia, Chriis, Kathy, Colleen and Maureen.(the P.G.O.C.) 
by youngsters in the area, . the amounts raised ranging from $4 to $1400. Earlier in the spring, Washington High School held a dance marathon which raised $1500 for the MDA. 
The national telethon marks the highlight of the annual MDA fund-raising campaign. The money enables the MDA to create and support varied research and as­sistance programs. Notre Dame football coach Dan Devine is Na­tional Vice-President of the MDA and has worked extensively with the association and its programs. 
.WELCOME STUDENTS 
RESTAURANTE SCOTTSDALE MALL 

291-3142 
............................ 

MORE AND MORE : 
IIHI•Izl•l "' "' rEIETNIJAMI. •• •1. .._ MEATLESS TACOS, TAJIAI.ES, EICIIlAtAS, IIRRIJOS, IEAII TACOS, ••I TOSTDOS Ill 
SPECIAL FOR STUDENTS FREE SOFT DRINK WHEN YOU BUY3 ITEMS 
Atheletic Dedication Weekend at Smc Special Store Hours Open 9-4 
Special on the Album 'A Sairit Mary's Song' 
reg $4.98 · special $2.98 
Limited edition of beautiful 
Lithographs of LeMans Hall 
Any Club'That Did Not Attend The Meeting On Wed, But Wants To Participate In 



Activities Night. 
Must Call Jodie (1675) 
By 6:00 PM Today 
• 
TACOS 

• 
IIUIJOS 

• 
EICIIlAtAS 

• 
TOSTADOS 

• 
TAJIAlES 

• 
TACO tOO 

• 
lUI TACO

• 
IARIEQUE TACO

• 
IAIY TACO

• 
SPAIISI lOT DOl


• 
• CIEESEIIROER 
Love to you all,

Classified Ads are non-refundable Norma 
•••.• ,. ••• f •• " ••• , • ~ ;, I I •• 1 " I I • • I • e I , f> • 


Friday, September 9, 1977
12 the observer 

Irish set for season opener with Pitt 
by Paul Stevenson Sports Editor 
The date was September 11, 1976 and the place was Notre Dame Stadium. That was the day that the University of Pittsburgh last inva­ded du Lac, only to depart with a 31-10 victory and hand the Irish their first opening day loss in 13 years. 
Tomorrow, the Panthers wilt be looking to give the Irish opening day blues for the second straight year as well as increase their winning streak over Notre Dame to three games. Likewise, the Irish recall the humiliation they received in front of a national television audience and hope to make amends for their poor showing of last year with a great showing this Satur­day. 
Matt Cavanaugh is also looking to become only the second quarter­back to defeat the Notre Dame three years in a row. Mike Phipps was the only other player to ever achieve such a feat, when Purdue beat the Irish in 1967, 1968 and 1969. 
Pittsburgh Head Coach Jackie Sherrill will be depending on the experienced Cavanaugh to lead his team mixture of super performers and inexperienced players when the Panthers take the field on Saturday. 





Captains anticipate Pitt confrontation 
by Paul Stevenson Sports Editor 

Although an opening game, to­morrow's Notre Dame-Pittsburgh clash could be the turning point in the season for both squads. Pittsburgh wiii be defending their national title, while, the Irish are expected to have a great season by many football fanatics. 
For the winner, the opportunities lie ahead. For the losers, the team can only pick up the pieces and try to display their talents in the remaining ten games. 
In a game of such importance, the captains of the team can make a critical difference when both competitors are w highly regarded. 
The Fighting Irish football cap­tains have the leadership, enthu­siasm, experience and guiding abilities that typifies captains of ~otre Dame squads. 
The tri-captains for the 1977 
ootball squad are Ross Browner, 

'erry Eurick and Willie Fry. A iourth captain, Steve Orsini, wiii be in charge of the specialty teams. 
On offense, Terry Eurick will add the experience and enthusiasm necessary as the Irish debut in Pittsburgh. The senior from Sagi­naw, Michigan aside from his offensive duties, returned eight kickoffs for 159 yards last season. What was the team's feeling going into last year's opener? "Last season the team realized that whoever won would have bigger and better things that year," Eurick commented. "The same thing is happening this year. We know what we have to do and we know we're ready to play football.'' 
''This game is our first big obstacle," Eurick continued. "We just have to keep our heads together and we'll just be glad when Saturday gets here." 
Notre Dame has been rated by many to finish number-one in the nation. That, in itself, is an unbelievably hard claim to uphold. 
"It's nice to talk about being the best," Eurick remarked. "But, the important thing is to prove that you're the best on the field." 
The fact that the game will be played in Pittsburgh will help the Panthers. However, there may be an incentive to. playing the game at. the Panther's stadium. 
"Everyone talks about the home­town crowd and all the fan sup­port," Eurick stated. "We'd like to play the game here, but, to go to their backyard and beat them there means more." 
...... 

Tri-Captain Terry Eurick will be leading the Irish tomorrow as 
they try to stop Pitt. 

The rushing attack ·wm depend Walker wiii rely on an offensive heavily on Elliot Walker, who is the line consisting of center Tom sixth leading rusher in Panther Brzoza, Pitt's best lineman, George history. However, the Pitt speed­Link and Matt Carroll, a two-year ster needs only 234 yards to move starter, at guards, and Art Bortnick into second place on the all-time and Kurt Brechbill manning the 
list. tackle positions. This quintet 
The  specialty  teams  are  an  commented.  "I  think  that  the  beat Pitt,  our  momentum will be  
integral  part  of  every  football  personnel we have this year is the  great. We're ready for a big game.  
game. These teams could make the  best since I've been here."  The team realizes how important it  
difference  between  a  win  and  a  As far as preparing for a  major  really is. Ifwe lose, it's a long road  
loss.  This  year,  the Irish  show  contest, the specialty team  bears  back, but if we win, it wiii get us on  
improvement  in  their  specialty  just  as  much importance  as  any  our way."  
teams.  other facet.  The specialty teams  The game can be expected to be  
"Every year since Coach Devine  have to be ready to perform.  a hard-fought struggle.  The Irish  
has come here, we've worked really  "This game is going to be. very  are expected to follow the balanced  
hard on  specialty teams,"  Orsini  tough," Orsini continued.  "H we  [continued on page 10]  

:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::::::::::::::::;:;:::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::::::::::;:::::::::::::::::::;:::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:;:::::::::::;:;:;:;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
Paul Stevenson 

The Irish Eye 
::·:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:;:::::;:;:::::::;:::::::::::::::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::::::::::::::::;:;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:::::::::::::::;:;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: Football Picks 
by Paul Stevenson Sports Editor . 
Although it seems impossible, the football season is upon us once again. Since the gridiron battles are nearing their start, I will attempt to follow the tradition of all the sports editors that have preceded me. 
Every season, the customary procedure is for The Observer Sports Editor to predict the weekend's college football contests. So, with the aid of the "Pigskin Prophet," Bob Keen, here are tomorrow's gridiron highlights and their expected outcomes. Notre Dame vs. Pittsburgh: The Irish were embarrased last season by Tony Dorsett and company in front of their own fans as well as a national television audience. Dorsett may have departed from the Panther lineup, but, there is still plenty of talent on the Pitt roster. Look for the Irish to strive for a ball-control, balanced offensive attack, while Pittsburgh will be shooting to suprise the Irish with a big play. Notre Dame will have a tough time-in the Panthers den, but should be able to return to du Lac with a victory. So, give the game to Notre Dame by 10. Keen goes with the Irish by 14. Alabama vs. Mississippi: The Crimson Tide were upset by Mississippi last season as they opened their year with a 10-7 defeat. This game will be played in Birmingham so the home field advantage goes to Alabama. Bear Bryant's crew also has eight offensive starters as well as six defensive starters returning. The Rebels are just going to have to cherish their victory last year, because this season, the Tide will roll. Give the clash to 'Barna by 14. Keen goes with the Tide by 17 points. Ohio State vs. Miami: Woody Hayes always comes up with a team that is overwhelming with talent. The Buckeyes have 16 returning starters, eight on each unit. Even with Lou Saban beginning as the new head coach for the Hurricanes, it should not take much for the Buckeyes to blow them out ofthe stadium. The tilt will go to OSU by 17. Keen favors the Buckeyes by 21. Georgia Tech vs. South Carolina: Both of these teams were opponents of the Irish last year. The Gamecocks registered a mediocre season last year with a 6-5 ledger. This opener will be a perfect time to start on a good note. Pepper Rodgers may have downed the Irish last year, but other than that, it was a dismal season in Atlanta. The Gamecocks will not allow themselves to be wrecked by Tech. With the home field edge, SC should take the contest by 10. Keen backs the Gamecocks by 7. Oklahoma vs. Vanderbllt: Vanderbilt fell victim last year to the Sooners at home, 24-3. The Commodores did go on to win two games the remaider of the season. Although Vanderbilt welcomes back 18 starters, the Norman bunch will be too much to handle. Barry Switzer's gang should run away 
with another one, this time by 28 points as they seek another national title. 
Keen goes with OU by 35. Ml880url vs. Southem Cal: TheTigersgave the Trojans their only defeat in 1976 with a 46-25 drubbing at the Colliseum. Although the Tigers will be at home this year, USC has too much revenge on their side to lose two years in a row. Give the game to the Trojans by 17. Keen picks USC by 14. UCLA vs Houston: Terry Donohue, according to many sources, had the best recruiting year in the country. However, unless these frosh can fill some gaps immediately, the Bruins w!ll have a tough time against averages a beefy 246 pounds and should give the Irish defensive front four a supreme test. 
Cavanaugh, a legitimate compe­titor with Ross Browner for the Reisman Trophy, who completed almost 60 percent of his passes last season, throwing for 1046 yards and nine touchdowns, wiii be trying to connect with such targets as Gordon Jones, Wiiiie Taylor and wide receiver Randy Reutershan. Steve Gaustad wiii be holding the tight end position, giving the Panthers four strong and exper­ienced receivers. 
With a passing attack like that, there is no doubt that Pittsburgh wiii come out throwing. "We'll play open, exciting football," Sherrill stated. "We'll try to get the ball to all our 'skiiled' people and distribute the offense all around." 
Defensively, the Panthers return only one man out of seven up front. That man is Randy Holloway, one on of the best defensive tackles in college football. If Pittsburgh can come up with some talent to fill the vacancies, that will be quite an accomplishment. 
In the secondary, the Panthers return all four starters, a quartet that was second in the nation last year in interceptions with 28. With safety Bob Jury, strong safety Jeff Delaney, and cornerbacks J.C. 

Houston. Since the game wiii be at the Astrodome, the contest should go to the Cougars by 10. Keen backs UCLA by J. Texas vs Boston College: This should be an interesting battle. The Longhorns fe11 to BC last year by a point. This year the game will be played in Texas. Although Texas had a bad season last year, their improvement and revenge motive should stop any BC threat. The game will go to Texas by 10. Keen favors the Longhorns by 10. Michigan vs. Dllnols: The Wolverines were supposed to be great last year and they are suppose to be great this year. Michigan always seems to have a powerhouse, only to lose a couple of games along the season's schedule. The Illini have a new coach in Gary Moeller, who arrived on the scene from Michigan. Although he may know a lot about Bo Schembechler and his team, the Wolverines wiii be too much to stop. The game goes to the Wolverines by 21. Keen looks for Michigan to capture this one by 24. · Purdue vs. Michigan State: Purdue always seems to upset somebody and usually that somebody is Notre Dame. Last year, the Irish defeated the Boilermakers, so Purdue decided they'd defeat top-ranked Michigan instead. The game is at MSU, and although Jim Young debuts as the Boilermaker head coach, the Spartans will take this battle by 7. Keen also sides with MSU by 7. Penn State vs. Duke: Joe Paterno's group may have lost to the Irish in the Gator Bowl last year, but this year they have a stronger unit. The Nittany Lions return a solid defense, with nine starters from last year. The Lions demolished Rutgers last week, puting the Scarlet Knights in perspective to big time college football. The Blue Devils should not be too tough to handle, even though the game is at Duke, unless the Lions are still thinking about last week's victory. Give the battle to the Lions by 21. Keen also goes with PSU by 21. Yale vs Brown: This looks to be quite an interesting matchup. Brown gave the Bulldogs their only defeat last season, forcing them to share the Ivy League crown. This year the game is at Yale and revenge here will be at its peak. The Bruins will also be looking to capture the Ivy League crown again, but this time they do not want to share it. The game will be close, but it will go to the Bulldogs by 7. Keen goes with Yale by 3. Princeton vs. Dartmouth: The Big Green will have a great shot for the Ivy ifthey can edge Yale at mid-season. Now, it's Princeton, and they should not be a major threat. Give the game to Dartmouth by 13. Keen goes with Dartmouth by 10. California vs Tennessee: This will be the debut for Johnny Majors at his alma mater. The game will also be played in Knoxviiie, giving the Vols and excellent advantage. Tennessee finished 6-5 last year and they should equal or better that mark this season with Majors at the helm. The game will go to Tennessee by 3. Keen figures Tennessee should upset the Golden Bears by 7. 
Upset of the Week: Nebraska vs. Washington State: The Cougars enter the 1977 campaign with 19 returnees, including the nation's top aerial act in Jack Thompson and Mike Levenseller. Thompson threw for 2762 yards and 20 touchdowns. He his 208 of 355 passes. Meanwhile, the Cornhuskers will be having a tough time this season with all the competition they will face in the Big Eight. Although the game is in Nebraska, the Cougars will capture the contest by 3. Keen goes with the Cornhuskers by 13. 
Wilson and LeRoy Felder, the Irish will have a challenge in the passing department. 
"We've had an awful lot of 
rebuilding to do defensively," 
Sherrill remarked. "We have good 
size and ability, but it might take us 
some time to mature." 
Meanwhile, the Irish, under Head Coach Dan Devine, will be relying on junior quarterback Rusty Lisch to lead the offense. In the backfield, Jerome Heavens, who was Notre Dame's leading rusher in 1975, will be maintaining the fullback position. At halfback, Vagus Ferguson wiii be relied on to replace AI Hunter. Both rushers have shown themselves well in Irish competition in past years. The combination gives the Irish added speed in the backfield. 
On defense, the Irish will be guided by two of their tri-captains, also known as the Irish Bookends, Browner and Wiiiie Fry. With this duo leading the experienced defen­sive squad, the idea of giving up a considerable amount of yardage seems unlikely. However, there is more than talent and experience that goes into a football game. Emotion playes a tremendous role. Pittsburgh wiii be out to prove that they are a team without Tony Dorsett. In addition, they have a National Championship and a 13 game winning streak to uphold. 
The Irish have experience in their favor going into this game, a position which has been reversed since last year. "Most assuredly, we are more experienced than we were last year, even with the unexpected losses of some play­ers," Devine remarked. 
"Pittsburgh has a super football team," Devine added. "However, our team has really good attitude and I'm very pleased with our progress. This is really a hard working squad. We just hope to play a balanced attack," Devine concluded. 










