
server 

an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's Vol. XI, No. 117 Friday, April 22, 1977 
-~ 
:<t· 
r'·'·

Black students sit in 
_),.,•... ¥..-;·.'<" 
~·-t

on Ad. building steps ..... 
~­
by Patrick Cole Committee of the Board of Trus­Special Projects Editor tees. 

::'~ "-'! 
-The Black Gospel Choir will no 

Members of the Black concerned longer be addressed as such but as students group met with University the Notre Dame Gospel Choir, with ..~ officials yesterday to discuss their the same privileges and recognition complaint of racism, resulting in as any other musical group on some actions proposed to be taken campus. by the administration. Positive feelings on both sides 
About 30 members of the con­Hesburgh believed the meeting cerned Black students staged a made progress in answering the sit-in in front of the Administration complaints filed by the concerned building from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. Black students. "I think we solved yesterday. Later in the morning, at some ofthe problems," he said. "I approximately 10 a.m., some mem­thought it was very good. I fact, we bers of the concerned students met all faced the meeting in a positive with Dean of Students James manner.'' Roemer and Vice-President for Roemer was not available for Student Affairs Bro. Just Paczesny. comment last night. 
According to members of the Black Cultural Arts Center concerned Black students, they (BCAC) President Keith Tobias, discussed the package of letters who met with University officials, and grievances they had, and the clarified the role ofthe BCAC in the 
A

response from Paczesny and demonstration while praising Roemer "was favorable." Hesburgh. "The BCAC was not Concerned black students protested racial discrimination yesterday on the steps of the ''Some of the grievances were principally responsible for the sup­Administration Building. [photo by Dom Yocius] due to a misunderstanding," said port of this cause," Tobias said. one member of the concerned Black ''And we definitely want to praise students group who met with Fr. Hesburgh. We appreciate the Roemer and Paczesny. "They concern, consideration and cooper­pointed out that it wasn't intention­ation shown to us by Hesburgh and 
Frosh to register Wednesday 
al, and said that discrimination is Dean Roemer, Bro. Just and Bro. somewhat subjective.'' John Benesh (director of student 
Meeting with Hesburgh activities). For 'we talked with our Current Notre Dame freshmen each freshman should work out a proved, the student must obtain A second meeting was held mouths, and we listened with our will advance-register for their fall tentative schedule of courses. departmental approval for check­yesterday afternoon with some ears and we cried with our eyes and semester courses next Wednesday marked courses before he can
This schedule should be ap­

members of the concerned Black they carne to hear.' " from 9 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. in Stepan advance-register.
proved by an assistant dean of thestudents and University President Tobias also expressed gratitude Center. 
college the freshman plans to Freshmen who have questions on Theodore Hesburgh. One member for the support the concerned Black According to Emil T. Hofman, enter, according to the procedure the advance-registration procedure of the concerned students group students received from the black Dean of the Freshman Year of outlined at that particular college's of their particular collegP-program,
said Hesburgh supported some of faculty members as well as from Studies, all freshmen should have pre-advance-registration meeting. should contact the office of· the the complaints. Hesburgh told The the concerned students. 
attended one of the pre-advance After the schedule has been ap-assistant deans of the cofiege.
Observer last night that he would Kurt Robinson, a member of the registration meetings conducted issue a general statement some­concerned Black students who also Monday night by each of the time next week concerning the met with the University officials 
various college programs. At these 
University rules tolerate 
complaints issued by the concerned said, "We were united in our meetings the programs' require­Black students. displeasure that any form of dis­
ments and the procedures for 
Hesburgh made commitments to crimination should exist here at 

advance-registration were ex­

''unofficial'' sleep-out
the concerned Black students. Notre Dame. And we expressed plained.
Specifically, he supported: this displeasure to Fr. Hesburgh." by Dave Rambach ess the situation at the time. I -More money for minority re­Robinson commented that the Hofman stated, "I would gather Staff Reporter would have no objection to a small 
that any freshman still having
cruitment. "entire Black student population group of people sleeping out and I 
difficulties with the registration
-The appointment of a full-time must be thanked. ''No one student would just as soon ignore it," said 
procedure either missed the meet­
Minority Student Affairs Coordina-· can be commended," he said. Despite the cancellation of the Roemer, "provided they forsake 
ing Monday night, or is simply
tor. ''This was a united effort in which An Tostal sleep-out by Dean Roe­.the activities of the other night.''
bewildered by the new experience
-Three minority students to be the entire Black community parti­mer, students wishing to spend the The "activities of the other
of having to make up his or her own
included on the Student Affairs cipated." night on the Stepan grounds or the night'' cited by Roemer concernschedule." 
quads may do so without breaking Monday night's "riot" in the area By Monday all freshmen will University regulation. Students between Keenan and Zahm in
Cutback in mail delivery 
have received from the Registrar a sleeping outside their dorms are, which a security car was the targetregistration form, Form SO, along however, subject to University of several missiles and a girl waswith a page of general instructions. regulations regarding alcohol, fire­"assaulted" by the crowd of ap­

possible by year's end 
works and public disturbance. 
With the help of a course schedule proximately 200 students. Fear of a WASHINGTON [API -The Postal be cut to five days per week. The book, available in the offices of the Roemer, viewing the situation similar occurrence and the possib­Service is telling the leaders of move would save an estimated $412 assistant deans of each college, and "with a sense of humor" has no ility of a drunken student being four postal workers unions that it million a year for the mail agency, the instructions given at the pre­plan of action should students sleep thrown into the lake caused Roe­may cut back mail delivery to five which has a history of heavy advance registration meetings, out tonight, but will instead ''ass-mer to cancel the event. days a week. deficits. 
An reduction in deliveries seems
Sources say the move, which 
likely to arouse a heavy opposition could take effect by the end of the in Congress, which established theyear, probably would eliminate study commission but stronglySaturday horne delivery of mail. 

criticized its recommendation. 
Letters mailed to the union It invited the four union presidentspresidents unions this week advis­to an April 29 meeting to discussed them that ''the Postal Service is 

commencing serious study of the the possible cutback. gin in front of Alurmi.i Hall · ·12:30 'fhe Parade ofChariots begins at Center, followed by a gigantic
Union members cannot be fired 

p.m. Scheduled events include: an • 12:30 p.m. in front of Alumni and earthball soccer match between the proposed change ot five-day deliv­under their contract with the postal 
ery service." attempt to break the re~m:d o~ Dillon Halls. 'l'bis event will be North and South Quads at 2:30
service, but many of the 200,000 

stuffing 32 people into one car' egg followed by the Ben Hur Chariot p.m., and tug-of-war contestsA copy of the letter from James letter carriers probably would be toss, jello toss, 4-rnan sack race; Race at 1 p.m. on the field on the beginning at 3:30 p.m.
· Conway,senior assistant Postmas­transferred to other types of work if 
keg toss, blindfolded football kick, ea$t side Qf Juniper Avenue. The The semi-finals of the Bookstore 
ter General for Labor relations, was deliveries were reduced. 
ing and a frisbee throw. ping pong ball drop, originally Basketball Tournament will takeobtained by The Associated Press. 
A Postal Service source said, "If At 4 p.m. an Impersonation scheduled for yesterday, will place at 4 p.m. behind the Book­The letter was sent Tuesday, one everything goes right, we could Contest will be held in front of 
probably take place during the store. 
day after a federal study commis­have it -the delivery -cut back in Alumni, or. in the Engineering chariot race. Tomorrow's events will be con­sion recommended that deliveries effect by the end of the year.·· Auditorium if it rains. cluded by the Irish Wake, held
At 2 p.m. the Mud VolleyballRecess 103, featuring a variety of from 9 p.m. to 1 a.m. in Stepan childish activities, will be held Center.
Ping Pong drop 

inside Stepan Center from 9 p.m. to The activities of ''Serene
Don't change your clocks! 

12:30 a.m., concluding the events Sunday" will begin at 1 p.m. with 

of ''Frivolous Friday." rescheduled the consolation game for the Book­
.....;
At 2 a.m. on Sunday most of the "Sunny Saturday" begins at 6 store Basketball Tournament, fol­

country will move their clocks 
The An Tostal ping pong ball 
a.m. with the finals of the Super­by
ahead one hour, changing to Day­drop, originally scheduled for yes­lowed the Jocks vs. Girls 
stars competition ·sponsored by basketball game at 1:30 p.m. 
light Savings Time. This does not terday, has been postponed until
Dillon Hall. The road rally will also The finals of the Bookstore
affect parts of Indiana, including tomorrow. The drop will take place 
be held tomorrow morning, begin­Tournament will take place at 2:30
South Bend. South Bend remains of during the chariot races, scheduled
ning at 7:30. p.m. A slam-dunk contest will
Eastt>rn Standard Time year round. to be tQrnorrow <~.t 1 p.m. behind
Fr9m 11:15 a.m._ to 1 _p.m., follow at 3 p.m., concluding the
Stepan Center. 
picnics will be held hi front of each ·weekend's events. 

.· 

On Campus Today_......._. 
friday, april 22 

8:30am-workshop, "novel concepts, methods and advanced 
12:30 pm technology in particulate-gas separation," sponsored 
·by the nat'l science foundation and environmental protection agency, cce. 
noon brown bag discussion, arts and letters discussion of faculty summer research workshop by edward maier, sponsored by the center for the study of man, library lounge. 
12:15 pm lecture, "the seer of lublin, or hasadic melancholy" by elie wiesel, one of ward phillips lectures, wash. hall. 
4 pm speech, "arrival of general patton" for an tostal, in front of alumni hall. 
4:30pm lecture, "new problems in biologically related, inorganic chemistry," by prof. richard h. holm, stanford univ., one of the reilly lectures, rm. 123 nieuwland. 
5:15pm mass and dinner, bulla shed. 

7 pm bible study, "is everyone saved?" by campus 
1 
crusade for christ, smc clubhouse. ' 
7 & 9 pm theater, "play it again sam," by woody allen, nazz, I basement of Iafortune. I 
8pm .lecture, sigma XI, scientific research society 25th I annual initiation and recognition, blue & gold rm., i morris inn. 
10:30 pm-nazz, leo hanson and friends, basement Iafortune. 1 am 
saturday, april 23 ·• 
11:30 am lacrosse, nd b-team vs. toledo, stepan field. 

2 pm lacrosse, nd a·-team vs. ohio state varsity, stepan field. 
3 pm nd rowing team vs. purdue univ., mishawaka marina and park. 
8 pm recital, ms. anne ·franco, senior piano recital, smc little theater. 
8 pm consort, faculty consort-musical entertainment, smc little theater. 
8 pm theater, "play it again sam," by woody allen, nazz, basement of Iafortune . 
sunday, april 24 

8 pm foreign film series, "shoot the piano player" by francois truffant sponsored by the nd-smc theater, smc carroll hall. 
8 pm workshop, music workshop by rebecca pennys, sponsored by the music dept. smc little theater. 
8:15 pm concert, university of notre dame chorale, sacred heart church. 

Roemer warns students after hitchhiking incident 

by Brigld Rafferty pointed out the risks of hitchhiking 
Staff Reporter for females, particularly at night, 
and urged students to use greater 
Two Notre Dame females were caution when getting into strange picked up by a driver who was not cars. completely dressed when hitchhik­"We try to bring the seriousness· ing back to campus from area bars of hitchhiking to the students' recently, according to Dean of attention when we hear any kind of Students James Roemer. strange reports , '' said Roemer. He 
pointed out, however, that manyThe man, who was accosted by strange incidents of hitchhiking areNotre Dame Security in a parking not reported.
' 


Security, expenses 





Palma cites OC problems 
by Karen Sikorski stable, according to Palma. Ai-transition to off-campus life. "once, Staff Reporter though rents vary widely, she you've decided to live off-cam­discounts the idea that living pus," Palma said, "the University 
According to Darlene Palma, off-campus is cheaper than dorm wants to make it as easy as associate director of Off-Campus living. "When you take into ac-possible." The office furnishes Housing, many students encounter! count the cost of groceries, utilities computerized lists of available~ problems with landlords, neighbors I ' and other extras, most off-campus housing, updated weekly. They and expenses when they move residents pay as much or more as also maintain a complaint service to off-campus. those on campus,'' she said. The help deal with troublesome land-
One of these problems, Palma extra expense is seen as a "trade lords. said, results from the fact that most off," Palma said, "to get the Students contemplating a move off-campus residents rely on their luxuries they don't have in the off-campus can get more informa­landlord's verbal promises to make dorms." tion by visiting the office of the improvements. "Students are ba-The Off-Campus Housing Office third floor of the Administration sically naive," Palma remarked. exists to help students make the Building, or by calling 2178. 
~~~: ::k:alJ~~~e Ifv~~~alla!ft~:d. !:;:;:;:::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:~:~:~::~:::=~~:~;:::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::::;:;::::~:::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:1 
fails to do the promised work, :::: <Main Churdl) t:JI :::: 
residents have no legal recourse, · · ~ .. 
;~:~.E~dS:2~~= I~ ~~ :::::: ~~-=~: :~":.tc::.::y,\~s~c. I 
_ approved housing, Palma advis-:;:: 10:45 a.m. Sun. The Most Rev. Lawrence L Graner, ~:: ed. r 12:15 p.m. Sun. Rev. William Toohey, C.S.C. C.S.C~j~j Friction sometimes occurs be-:::: :;:; 
:::~es~:~~~~P;~r ~~~~n~~rh:~ ~~~~ Vespers will be at 7 :15 p.m. in Lady Chapel. ~~~~ 
~=:~!~n:~ ~=~~:n~~=1 ~it!t~~ff~~'::c: ~:::::!::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~;:;:;:;:;:;:::::::;:;:;:;::::::::::::::~ 
between on-and off-campus life­styles. "If students move off-cam­pus and continue to live the lifestyle of a dorm, there will be problems," she said, "but if they realize they are living in a neigh­borhood and have to be c·:msiderate of other people, they will get along all right." 
Palma admitted that off-campus students indulge in occasional par­ties, but pointed out that her office has only received about a dozen complaints in two years. "For the number of students living off-cam­pus," she said, "that's a pretty . good batting average." 
The percentage of students liv­ing off campus remains fairly ~AALE'at .7:00-9:25
g.llQ ~ , · SAT-SUN 
;.. 2 :oo-4 :3o
*The Observer 
HAS LANDED · /~7:15-9:45
................ 
Night Editor: John Calcutt 

Asst. Night Editor: Debbie Dahrling, Rosemary Mills Editorial layout: Tom O'Neil Features layout: Tim O'Reiley 
Sports layout: Tony Pace 

Typists: Gwen Coleman, Mary McCormick, Stephanie Urillo, Anne Giere 
E.M. T.: Karen Chiames Day Editor: Jack Silhavy 

Copy Reader: Ann Gales, Bob Varettoni Photographer: Dom Yocius 
I

The Observer is published Monday through Friday and weekly during the summer session, except during the exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and St Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $20 per year ($10 per semester) from The Obser­ver, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved 




ATTENTION! SOPHOMORE 
lace your ring order before you leav for Summer Vacation. This will assure 
you of having it when you return to 
school in the fall 
HOURS: 9:00 A.M. TO 4:30 P.M. MON.-FRI. IN THE OFFICE ON THE .FIRST FlOOR 
Not D me Bookstore 



lot, had also given a ride to two St. Mary's hitchhikers earlier that night. The girls requested to get out of his car at the Notre Dame circle when they realized that he had no pants on. 
In a letter to Kathleen Rice, St. Mary's Dean of Students, Roemer, 
INDIANA MOTOR BUS TOURS 

We go where you say! • 
Have more fun with us on aCHARTER BUS I e MORE FUN FOR 
YOUR GROUP 
e ARRANGE YOUR DEPARTURE AND RETURN TO SUIT YOUR CONVENIENCE / 
• 234-2196­
Friday, April 22, 1977 the observer 


COUP proposals led to Campaign for NO 
by Marti Hogan I ported ·by invested funds and not Edltor-ln-Cblef the University operating budget. In this way a department may Editor's note: This Js the second 1 employ a person of outstanding 
part In a series of articles explain· lag the recommendations of the COUP report and their relation to the Campaign for Notre Dame. 
Over the years, Notre Dame has made recurrent efforts to attract the highest scholars for its faculty. It was not until the Summa capital gifts program, outlined in Tues­day's issue of The Observer, however, that permanent appoint­rnents in the form of endowed professorships became the focus of faculty development. 
The first recommendation from the Committee on University Prior­ities (COUP) concerned a general commitment to institutional excel­lence. 
In response the Campaign for Notre Dame is seeking $32 million in endowment to underwrite 40 permanently endowed professor­ships for the University. An endowment of $4 million is also being sought to support five visit­ing professorships. Notre Dame currently has 18 endowed profes­sorships. 
Endowed professorships have proved valuable in enhancing the quality of academics as well a:s in relieving the financial burden of faculty salaries. Departments have the option of "recognizing the highest level of scholarship" in the University or bringing in prominent outside scholars as senior colleagues. 
Financially endowed professor­ships remove some of the higher­paid faculty positions from depen­dence on University income such as tuition. Endowed chairs are 
by Honey McHugh 

The Saint Mary's College Career Development Center is sponsoring two programs next week ot special interest to all students. 
The first entitled "How to Find a Summer Job," will be held on Monday, April 25, at 4:30 p.m. in Regina Auditorium. This program is open to all students and concerns the "how to" of getting a summer job. Particular attention will be paid to seasonal job opportunities, federal postitions, local services and unusual occupations. 
"The program will be beneficial to the students because there is a process concerned that involves more than reading the news­paper," said CDC Director Karen 0'Neil. "Instead of waiting for the 
jobs to come to them, we encourage the students to go out and get them." 
CDC intern Gretchen Obringer quality whose salary does not depend on the economy. There­fore, the money in the operating budget may go toward increasing salaries of other faculty members. 
A gift or grant of $800,000 is necessary to establish an endowed professorship at Notre Dame. The incumbent of an endowed chair is appointed to the teaching-and­research faculty with the rank of full pr<;>fessor. In addition to salary, or research assistance, for books or research materials and for travel relating to academic busi­ness. 

The eventual goal of the Univer­sity is to endow each of the approximately 200 positions that currently exist at the rank of full professor in its teaching-and­research faculty. Examining im­mediate needs, however, the Uni­versity has determined priority for 40 endowed professorships. 
These 40 professorships will be designated from existing positions. The creation of the endowed chairs will not increase the size of Notre Dame's faculty. 
The 40 Endowed Professorships Sought at Notre Dame College of Arts and Letters: 17 chairs 
Anthropology: One chair  Mediaeval Institute: One chair  
Art: One chair  Modern Languages; One chair  
Economics: One chair  Music: One chair  
English: Two chairs  Philosophy: Two chairs  
Goverllment and Inter- Psychology: Two chairs  
national Studies:  Sociology: One chair  
One chair  Theology: Two chairs  
History: One chair  

College of Science: Seven chairs 
Biology: One chair Microbiology: One chair Chemistry: Two chairs Physics: Two chairs Mathematics: One chair 
College of Engineering: Seven chairs 
Aerospace: One chair Electrical: One chair Architecture: One chair Mechanical: One chair Chemical: One chair Metallurgical Engineering and Civil: One chair Materials Science: One chair 
College of Business Administration: Seven chairs 
Accountancy: Two chairs Marketing: Two chairs 
Finance: One chair Management: Two chairs 
Law School: Two chairs 
Exhibiting artwork this weekend in the St. Mary's Art Department Senior Comprehensive show series will be Elfriede Heaney in fibers, janet Kronewitter in sculpture, Sr. joan MacNeill in drawing, Patricia Daly in thrown pottery, and F. Maria Garcia in photography. Daly's show opens today with a public reception from 7-9 p.m. and the other four artists' shows open Sat with a reception from 7-9 p.m. in Moreau Hall. 


SMC Career Center to sponsQr two programs 
way to earn money but aho it's a 
way to acquire meaningful work 
experience.'' 
On Wednesday, April 27, "Everything You Always Wanted To Know About Senior Year But Were Afraid To Ask" will be presented in Stapleton Lounge at 
6:30 p.m. The program is geared specifically toward juniors in prep­aration for their senior year. Co-sponsored by the CDC and the · senior class, the seminar will feature information and discussion concerning resumes, credentials, 

interviews, graduate school and job recruiting. The present seniors will provide information based on their own experience in seeking a · career as well as an overall orientation to senior year. 
"We encourage juniors to at­tend," stated O'Neil, "because it will help them to start thinking about their future plans by asking 

added~ "Not only is a summer job a. ·'advice of theit fellow_ .Students,::,. 
A visiting professorship is the more lasting than their tenure. 

temporary appointment, of a se-; Others will become candidates for 
rnester or year, of a leading scholar permanent endowments. 
to the teaching-and-research facul-I The 40 permanently endowed 
ty. A gift or grant of $800,000 I professorships have been desig­
endows a visiting professorship 1 nated and are listed below_. The 
also. five visiting professorships will be 
An endowment to support visit-used in all departments of the 

ing professorships would cornple-University. 
rnent endowed professorships. This series will continue on 
~orne faculty with temporary ap-1 Monday examining the COUP re­
pointrnent will have an influence on commendation to enhance the 
the academic life of the campus ' Catholic character of Notre Dame. 

r··-------------------------------------,
HAM RADIO CLUB 
WILL SET UP PORT­
IABLE OPERATION ON LAWN NEAR GRACE ON SATURDAY, 9:00 AM-3:00PM EVERYONE WELCOME RADIO OPERATOR OR NOT. .80-1 () METER TRANS­CEIVER 
. 1 .SATELLITE COM­
.2 METER FM .SLOW & FAST SCAN· TV 
COME OPERATE, WORK OTHER COUN­TftiES, TRY A REPEAT­
ER, SEE & SEND PIC­TURES TO SOUTH AMERICA, DISCUSS 
CLASS CREDIT FOR 
LICENSING AND CON­
STRUCTION PRO-

Bowen to veto laetrile legislation 
INDIANAPOLIS [AP]· Gov. Otis 

R. Bowen said yesterday he has decided to veto legislation to legalize the manufacture, sale and use of laetrile as a cancer treatment in Indiana. 
ROCKO INVITES NO.SMC Community 
To A Beer Blast & Picnic At His House SAT 1 PM-? 
Beer, Hamburgers & Hot Dogs, Music, etc... 
762 Portage Ave. (Big Pink House) 
$2.00 Gratuitie for Everyone 
•




senaor 
3-6 

Friday 



Beers tfrom-the w~on) 
. music outside ­

30~ 
Hotdogs n' burgers to~ Volleyball & Horseshoes 

Friday Night 
Beer Countdown All Ni~ht 8..;.10 40e
14.· OZe 10 • 11 35e Beers 11 • 12 3oe 
12-1 
A TIME TO DECIDE 
These few weeks1 are when Notre Dame studen!s are making deCisions. A few samples:, 
What kind of summer job should I look for? What will my major be? Whom wi II I room with next year? What will I do after gradu~tion? 

For those considering the priesthood, the question is : Is this the time when I should decide whether I want to be a priest If this is the decision you must make, you can get help by contacting: 
Fr. Joseph Carey, C.S.C. (219}283-6385 Vocations Counselor HOly Cross Fathers St. Joseph Hall,_ Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
bar 
3-6 



Saturday 
Beers (tJRain ~ .L _
Jrom tne
30c 
Hotdogs n' Burgers Volleyball & Horseshoes 
-Saturda 10-12 Scotc't Drinks Gin & Tonics SOc 



Discrimination meditation 
Yesterday a group of concerned Black -can be advanced. One feels discriminat­
students, joined by a number of white ed against, but unless the case is blatant 
students, staged a peaceful sit-in on the (being forced to sit in the back of the bus, 
steps of the Administration building. The for example), it is usually very difficult to 
demonstrators were protesting what they prove. 

believe to be incidents of discrimination Granted, a number of individuals are 
against minority students, with emphasis going to be paranoid or unwilling to 
on the experience of Black students. A believe that a rejection could be due to any 
st at.ement of the purpose of the sit-in and more personal factor (abrasive personality, 
description of the incidents in question poor qualifications, etc.). But when the 
were distributed to passers-by. Adminis­suspicion is so widely-held, it indicates, at 
trators involved in each case had already the very least, that the total atmosphere is 
been contacted by letter. not one of sensitivity to each other's needs. 
Whether or not any particular case And yet the feeling of discrimination is presented by the Black students was in fact foreign to no one. We have all felt labelled discriminatory is not the issue of real at some time, judged by criteria not 
importance. Suppose the Gallop Poll connected with the issue at hand: sex, 
revealed that half the American people age, economic class, appearance -even 
believe Peter Finch won the Academy residence hall or major. 
Award for Best Actor because of his death It is more fashionable these days to be a 
and not his acting performance. The victim of sexual or "reverse" discrimina­specific case is of interest, but more tion, but this certainly doesn't mean that impor1anUy, the poll results indicate a racism has been annihilated. It might even distrust of the Academy's professional be tempting to acknowledge the existence integrity. of racism in the outside world, while 
Similarly,the concerned Black students denying its reality in an "enlightened," concluded their statement: academic setting. But the fact remains that racism is a
'·'The fact that so many students reality for at least half of the Blackreacted suspiciously ... is indicative of students at Notre Dame. This "undercur-·undercurrents of mistrust which rent of mistrust" is a signal to all of us thatshould be dealt with by the adminis­the integrity of the community as a whole

tration.'' 

is in question. The sit-in staged by the Even if all of the specific charges were concerned Black students and their letters proven to have no basis in fact, this crucial to administration officials are calls for issue would remain unresolved. support from the University community in 
In their letter to University President Fr. the drive to alleviate a problem that Theodore Hesburgh, the students' also reflects poorly on us all. If we can work · noted, "There can never be documentary together for a cause that should be evidence to prove racism ... '' In most cases common to everyone, we'll have solved of alleged discrimination, some other half the problem already. ·' possible explanation -perhaps the real one 

To the sleepers 
The Monday night incident, which Dame students that emerged from Monday resulted in the cancellation of the An night's inci~ent. Tostal sleep-out, has been both exaggerat­To prevent this, to make a valid point, ed and underplayed. There is no doubt, any students who decide to sleep out however, that a number of unwise, tonight must not violate any rule of the inconsiderate and even dangerous thing~ University or otherwise display a lack of happened. Fortunately, no one was hurt. consideration or maturity. To begin with, 
Unfortunately, a small number of the·· ~tudents should not sleep in a dormitory students present at the gathering caused area. The rectors expressed concern over the bulk of the trouble, yet left the the original plan to hold the event on the impression that Notre Dame students as a North Quad because of potential dist~ group would not have the maturity and bance to students in the halls. The self-control to participate in an orderly, Graduate Record Exam is scheduled for rela..xed sleep-out.. Saturday morning and many students will 
There are many students o~. t.ltis campus be trying to sleep or study. No considerate who believe that it can be do!le, and they person would unnecessarily antagonize the have already announced their intentions to hall staffs of inconvenience other students. sleep out tonight. This editorial is No alcohol or other drugs must be addressed to them. brought to the sleep-out. This is a clear 
It is to be regretted that an activity that violation of University rules, the type of was originally planned as a unique way for thing the Administration fears and the students to relax and enjoy the beautiful . security patrols will be looking out for. No spring weather together has been trans­considerate; mature person would endan­formed into a sort of proving ground. ger the success of the event for everyone What are you going to prove? by publicly violating a University regula­
If you are sleeping out merely to flaunt tion. the authority of the Dean of Students, to Fireworks and rowdiness are directly show that nobody can stop you from opposed to the intended atmosphere of the sleeping out if you want, you are sleep-out and can result in injury to displaying exactly the kind of immature students. An adult person does not toss an atUtude the Administration fears. M80 in someone's sleeping bag or an 
If you are sleeping out because you unwilling victim into the lake. Another believe Notre Dame students are mature University rule to observe: no swimming. and sell-controlled enough to participate Dean Roemer has said he is not sure yet successfully in this event, you had better how he will handle whatever happens make dead certain that your actions are not tonight. He will be playing it pretty much counterproductive. by ear. At some point, he may decide to 
Had there been no Monday night . break up the gathering before trouble incident, any minor problems that occ~ starts. If he does, go home quietly. You red during the sleep-out could have been will make your point much more effectively written off as just that -minor problems -by cooperating than by resisting. and the sleep-out could have been counted · The original sleep-out is dead. Its spirit an over-all success. But any incidents that cannot be recaptured this year. But we occur tonight among students sleeping out may get another chance next year if things will gain three times the significance. The go smoothly tonight. We are not urging unofficial sleep-out will be counted an anyone to sleep-out. All we are saying is, over-all disaster and a confinnation of the if you do it, do it right. We don't need immature, reckless impression of Notre another incident to live. down. • 
----------~-------------~-·-~--­


r *The Observer 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's 
The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College It does not necessarily reflect the policies of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent .the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters are the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and letters are encouraged to promote the free expression of varying opinions on campus. 
EDITORIAL BOARD 
Mart1 Hogan Editor-in-Chief Martha Fanning Managing Editor Bob Brink Asst. Managing Ed Kathy Mills Executive Editor Maureen Flynn Editorial Editor Barb Breitenstein Exec. News Editor Tom Byrne Campus Editor jean Powley St. Mary's Editor Katie Kerwm News Editor Paul Stevenson Sports Editor Pat Cole Special Projects Ed. Dav1d O'Keefe Features Editor 
""pril 22, 1977 

P.O.BoxQ 
The 'riot' 

a riot? 
Dear Editor: 
The only thing that appalls us 
more than your blatant ignorance 
of the fact is that ignorance 
displayed by Notre Dame's distin­
guished Dean of Students. We. of 
course, are referring to the great 
"riot" that occured Monday night. 
To begin with, the "riot" began 
with' a shouting contest that high­
lighted originality and creativity as 
opposed to maximum cacophony. 
It began at approximately 12 a.m. 
and was. primarily, the result of 
the efforts of the residents of St. 
Ed's and Keenan. This incident 
precipitated, at about 12:3() a.m., a 
small gathering of students (40-50) 
which was generally orderly. 
Granted there were some fire­
works. For a period of five minuts, 
several firecrackers were heard. 
That is all. 
Although two security guards 
were already on the scene, they 
made no effort to quell the distur­
bance. They could not have felt it 
to be all that serious or they would 
have done more than stand around. 
The females from Lewis began 
arriving some time shortly after 
12:20 a.m., which was, of course, before the time that the majority of 
. the participants assembled. The 
Lewis women were courting disas­
ter by arriving in bathrobes and/or 
bathing suits. Neigher bathing 
suits nor bathrobes are proper 
evening attire. Some students 
were seen chasing other students 
at this time. an upper limit of the 
number of students in this would 
have to be 15. 
As for the "stoning" of Security, 
we, as sitnesses to the "riot," 
observe'd one projectile that 
seemed to come from the general 
direction of Keenan. 
The Notre Dame Riot of 1977 
ended quietly with no participants 
left at 1:00 a.m. It should be noted, 
however, that the majority of the 
"rioters" had left by 12:45 a.m. 
This obviously indicates that the 
"riot" essentially lasted 15 
minutes. 
Dean Roemer, any comparison with the riot that took place last Fall is absurd. There was no ' violence, no drinking, and no general breaking of University rules and/or civil law. And, as for the source of the disturbance, maybe Security and the Universicy ought to order cold weather for the remainder of the term in order to prevent such an uprising from happening again. Furthermore, the cancellation of the sleep-out might cause the students to react to the "warm summer nights" in a 

1 more destructive and/or violent manner. the sleep-out would have provided a healthy and orderly release of the tensions generated by cabin-fever. 
As for the "assaulted" lady from Lewis, what were you doing out there anyway? In fact, the pre­sence of the Lewis women appears to have lured the majority of "rioters" out in the first place. 
Kenneth P. Dudek Brendan Donovan William H. Alban 
EDITOR'S NOTE: The letter im-. plies that the Lewis resident in­volved in the assault was one of those in the crowd wearing bath­robes and bathing suits. In fact, she was fully.clothed and was passing through the area on her way home Monday night when the incident occurred. 

Sit-in for sleep-out 
Dear Dean Roemer: 

After reading the article in Wednesday's Observer about the huge "riot" which broke out on campus, I became quite concerned. For, according to Webster, a riot entails "violent public disorder," something which is unusual here at Notre Dame. After learning the true facts of Monday's incident, though. I discovered that you grossly misjudged the behavior of those involved, and you incorrectly labelled Monday evening's gather­ing. 
Since "sit-ins" seem calmly accepted here, and, since they do nQt qualify as a "serious distur­bance of the University commun­ity," and, since sit-ins do not "infringe upon the rights and well­being of others,'' I advocate that everyone hold a campus-wide sit-in from 11:30 p.m. Friday night until Saturday morning, in mild protest of your recent actions. To avoid disturbing anyone left in the dorms, we should hold it in the field near Stepan Center. Note, though, that I said "sit-in," not "sleep-out." DuLac does not forbid people to sit outdoors at night, but encourages active student life. Perhaps after seeing how well ND students can act, you won't fear gatherings and cancel activities in the future with frivolous excuses. 
Steve Odland . 
----------~-------­
letters to a lonely God 
by REV. ROBERT GRIFFIN 
On Learning To Read Poetry In Black Type 
I ran into Eddie, one of our Black students, on my way home from Darby's Place at three-thirty Thursday morning. Three hours earlier, I had gotten off the plane returning me home from New York by way of Chicago. Coming back to the campus, I had not read the story in · Wednesday's Observer about the Black Students' protest, but I picked up the news from conversations at Darby's. ' Then, meeting Eddie, I asked him to tell me whether, as a Black, he sometimes felt uncomfortable 'at Notre Dame. I was surprised when he told me he did feel uncomfortable (Eddie, that cheerful philo­sopher, uncomfortable!). I was mo11$!d when he explained the reasons he felt uncomfortable; reasons that are too sensi­tive to be accurately documented in a newspaper; reasons that have to do with· human dignity sometimes made to feel unsure of itself, sometimes a little home­sick for familiar securities. When he finished, all the words I could find to say were: "Eddie, I love you." I could have said: "Eddie, you are beautiful," but he knew that about himself. I wanted him to hear me say, "I love you"; not because he needed it, but because I needed to say it. 
Eddie, I am not a civil rights priest. I never went to Selma; I never went on freedom marches with Martin Luther King. 
I grew up in a New England town where I never met a Black. No Black children went to my grade school; none went to my church; none played in my neighborhood. to tell the truth, Eddie I never really knew any Blacks in my whole life until I came to live in Keenan Hall ten years ago. I am not going to praise the Blacks that I have met at Notre Dame, because my gratitude to them is too deep and complicated for me to merely pay them compliments. They are, for me, like the teachers who first taught you to read poetry and discover the continents of beauty that literature con­tains, or those other teachers who taught you the truths of the catechism that eventually lead to faith. 
I have been so happy in knowing the Blacks I have met: some of them fri~ndly, some of them reticent, some of them distressed, a few of them surly. I have been so happy when they have talked to me as friend talks to friend, as brother talks to brother. as children talk to their father. I've even been happy when they scolded me as Black person against white person diviaed by a cultural abyss. One of the great revolutions in human history was the Civil Rights Movement in the Sixties, and I would have enjoyed standing hand in hand at the Washington Monument with Ralph Abernathy, Coretta King, and Dick Gregory, singing "We Shall Overcome." But I am also stirred by quiet events, as when I sit talking with the young Black Chris over his plans to be a better writer than Ralph Ellison, each of us being himself, with nothing between us that needs overcoming; nothing outside us that needs overcomin~ but the world. 
Because of Chns, Eddie --.because of his friendship, and Greg's and Carl's and Hubie's and yours--I finally feel at home in the New York neighborhoods where there are many Blacks who are not young and talented and beautiful as you are. I did not always feel at home there. At some point, in a world that is closed to you by ignorance, fear, or inexperience, you have to make a break-through. Quite simply, Eddie, you and Chris and the others have been my doorway. Because of you, I have 
Friday, April 22, 1977 the observer 


learned to trust the streets of Harlem. fearing neither the street people nor the tough Black kids -,-at least, not fearing them more than I fear other young toughs. I can walk Lennox Avenue collecting the smiles of children and the nods of old people. I can chat with families coming home from church. Some Harlemites might hate me as a hooky; but even at Notre D11me, Eddie, I have my critics. Now, at this point, I would love to go into Black homes in Hartem or Bedford­Stuyvesant and eat dinner. and baptize Bla~k babies, and prepare Black wives and husbands for their Christian marriages. Black folks have never said they needed m~· as their priest; their grandmothers do not bless me as I might be blessed as a pastor in Ireland. But I can bless them and want to love them, and trv to tind svmbolic wavs of belonging to thei~ experiet{l·e. m;tking a sacrament between us out of laughter, 
making a tie that binds us. out of pain. 
I have read the books that tell me of the Black crucifixion. Eddie. I have heard the music that the Black soul sings. I have heard the rhetoric that tells of rats in Memphis tenements and of the children who die as throwaways in the Northern ghettos. All of it might have seemed as distant as Biafra or the death of peasants in the Vietnam jungle. pittlul vll'ttms needing prayers and peace. But then· were students met in' the shadow of the Dome who taught me that Black people were t1esh of my flesh. bone of my bone, through the marriage that God made with all dust that breathes as an image of His glory. 
Eddie, I am not trying to tit you, nor the others, int9 a mentor's role where you might not feel coinfortablc; you have a right to be yourself as an American, and not a symbolic person. You may never have even seen the Black ghetto. Hooks may be your teacher, as they have been mine, on the great struggle for human freedom. Yet there arc truths and tra­gedies you bear witness to, just as Jewish young people in their beauty bear witness to the desecrations at Dachau. When I sec 
REV. ROUER'!' (;RIFFIN 

\'Oil. I can l'l'llll'mher if I lwn>IIH' ;ncditativc --the outrage of suffering and injust icc lasting for I hree hutHired vears. so that if lh~·r~· wen· lo he another Sl'lma. I would fed mysdf a traitor to friembhip. a-.. 
wdl as lo dn't'lll'Y· if I \H'l'l' not then·. 
I can't kadt you that Bla,·k i-. lkautiful. Eddie: you were one of tho-.e who taught me that Black is lkauliful. I ll<'nlnl In touch black to know the h,·aulv nr hlack a-.. ;1 truth of the heart as wdl as the head. I needed to he touched hv Bla,·k hands in I h.­gestures of fellowship. to h,· hugg.-11 hv Bht<·k arms in the geslutTs of pean·. 
Chris was my first Black fri<'tHI. Fvn1 tually. he ldt Notre DanH' hn·aus<· he did not fed comfortable here; hni<'V<-r~· year or so, he coml'S hack to sec Ill<', ami he alwavs seems surprised thai I l'l'IIH'miJ<-r him. 

Eddie, at four o'do<·k this morning. you told me that soml·timcs you do not kd comfortable at Notre Danll'. It won't change anything for ml' to tdl you, hut I want you to know: through you I h;tvc learned to cherish IIHHT pcopk than I can ever count. 

Magnificent Meals in Michiana 
by TIM O'REILEY 





Happy Hou~ 
Today, they throng to the squares to  of boundless mystery to the Westerner,  
wave Chairman Mao's little red book, to  developed a great epicurean tradition from  
chant revolutionary slogans, to read revol·  this setting and exported it to Michiana in  
utionary wall posters, to view revolutionary  the form of the Happy House (US 31, just  
cultural displays, while attired in revolu­ north of the state line).  
tionary garb. The hundreds of millions can  Certainly the arrangement of the dining  
tour the Forbidden City, which for centur­ room (or should I say cell, because of its  
ies was the exclusive reser1e of the  small size) is not reminiscent of China. A  
Emperor and his high priests. The revolu­ few lamps fringed with tassels, a few  
tionary state is now worshipped as the  screens on a paneled wall, and a neon sign  
savior of the country.  in the window hardly offset the mundane  
Only a few short years ago, however, the  tables with paper phicemats. The china,  
pagodas, sprouting their many layers of  mismatched in both color and pattern, is  
wings, commanded an aura of mystery and  made in Japan. With waitresses sitting at  
respect amongst the Chinese people. In the  one of the tables, the service seemed  
shadows of these towering temples, the  almost too prompt.  
jinrickishas clattered along the inscrutable  Scanning a menu -that listed ~such  
maze of back alleys, past opium dens and  delicacies as Gnow Yoke King, Chow Har  
their plump, pigtailed, and thin-bearded  King, and Long Har Kew (all under $5.00),  
proprietors. The sampans and junks sail  a special guest gourmet, Thomas O'Neil,  
into the misty harbor nearby, carrying the  mused, "With food like this, no wonder  
fish and commerce of land. China, the land  ...  millions of Chinese are starving." Cpming. ,  

with each entree (including the American ones on the back of the menu) is a pot of either coffee or jasmine tea; a brew which 
Mr.  O'Neil  described  as  "recycled  rice  
paddy water."  
The  appetizer  did  not  impress  Mr.  

O'Neil much more. Looking like "Chinese corn flakes" according to him, the fried Won Ton ($1.40) was nice and had a core of shrimp and select spices, an inoffensive combination. My egg roll, accompanied by . sweet and sour sauce, possessed a most 1 interestmg flavor. Wltn Chinese vegetable soup, these selections , _comprised • the 
whole of a very limited appetizer list. 
From there we proceeded to an entree that Mr. O'Neil characterized as "revolu­tionary food, since it fights back in the stomach,'" Chow Guy Kew($3.75). A: steaming plate of chicken chunks, Chinese , greens, water chestnuts, mushrooms, pea· ' pods and bamboo shoots, it •distressed him for its lack of sauce, mushrooms (2 in all) and good flavor. My Hung Shue Beef ($3. 75), a bite of beef wrapped in vegetables and deep fried; proved not to possess the toughness that a name Hung Shue might imply. Swarmed by the same combination of vegetables as the Chow · Guy Kew, it was not bad but hardly as: 
prodigious a work as the Great Wall. 1 
The rice at our table, which had to be carved out of the bowl, was "starchy . enough,',' Mr. O'Neil noted, '.,'to take c~r~ 
r. 

of a week's worth of shirts." The saltless rolls and slightly greasy butter prompted Mr. O'Neil to remark, "It's fortunate that 
the  Chinese  arc  not  a  bread-eating  
people."  
The  message  in  my  fortune  cookie  

predicted, "You pass difficult lest that make you happier and richer." Sad to say, this prophesy was not full1lled at the Happy House. Leftovers: Fr. Burtchaell's post-Easter Mass party. has unfortunately turned into too much of a good thing. Even stamped hands did not prevent gate crashers from overcrowding the affair on the Fourteenth Floor of the Library, forcing Burtchaell to move food, drink and people to the second floor. Despite the "Quiet Please" signs in the second floor lobby, the party raged on into the wee hours of the morning. Placing the food at random on the tables set off a frantic safari on the floor to find any food other than buttered rolls. Potato salad, cold. cuts, wine and ice cream all disappeared. quickly, but not quite as fast as cups, forh and spoons. Magnificent Meals suggests that in the future more floor space be used, maps of the food be conspicuously posted, and all food be clearly labeled. Or a separate floor could be set aside for the crashers. Magnificent Meals firmly be· lieves, however, that the chance to see the Fourteenth Floor is much too valuable to be sacrifice,d, tq the press of the crowds . 
" 
~ 
w
• 

Campus News 
session and a discussion period. 1975, in its World About Us series. Grandmaster Arthur Bisguier Registration for the day will be. Recently Harper has been choreo­will lecture on "Whatever hap­
HPC coordinator I Chess team· 
fifty cents. The second part of this grapher to the University of lfe pened to Bobby Fischer?" May 6 in seminar, also at the YWCA, will be theatre and to the Ife Festival of SpOnSOrS tOUrney the Galvin Center Auditorium.
applications due held May 15. Arts in Nigeria. She is Research Bisguier will also hold a Ten Board For further information call Jo­Fellow in dance and a member of The Notre Dame chess team will Clock exhibition May 7 at 9 a.m. in
The deadline for applying for the 

anne Hill at 289-3526 after 6 p.m. the Department of Dramatic Arts at sponsor a four round tournament the South Bend Public Library. 
position of Hall Presidents Council Ife. Harper studied dance at the tomorrow in the Blue and Gold For further information on theseExecutive Coordinator for the 

1977-78 academic year is today. African film Mid-European School of Modern room of the Morris Inn. Regi­events call 234-9648. Dance in Zurich and the Martha stration begins at 8 a.m. with the
Experience is not necessary butis recommended. Applicants should 

tO be presented ' Graham school of dance in New first round starting at 9 a.m. Mike Henry
York. A Speed Chess tournament willsubmit their names to J.P. Russell 
or the secretary in the Student Peggy Harper, producer of the Harper's three film made with be held Wednesday at the South wins Trivia Bowl film of Yoruba drama and masked Frances Speed include Tiv dance Bend Public Library beginning at 7 Mike Henry from Pangborn Hall
Government Office. 

dance Gelede, will present her film and masquerade. This, like p.m. Chess Book prizes will be won the Trivia Bowl yesterday with commentary in the Galvin Life Gelede, is a drama of popular awarded to the top four players. afternoon when he beat four people Science Auditorium tomorrow at native dance and masked drama in The club will hold a 25 board in the preliminaries and seven

Women educators 

7:30p.m. the African tradition. Harper will match against the Kalamazoo chess others in the finals. "He just knew Harper's work as a producer of bri:1g the Tiv film with her tomor-team Apri130 at 11 a.m. The match everything," said Heidi Betz,

to hold seminar 

Nigerian dance and drama was the row and may have a chance to show will be held at Western Michigan questioner for the contest, in 
Leading women educators from subject of a London BBC feature in this also. University in Kalamazoo. describing Mr. Trivia Bowl '77. Indiana and around the nation will conduct a seminar tomorrow at the • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • South Bend YWCA, 802 LaFayette ' : TJMM PARTY. STORE .• 
Blvd., on "Women's Changing 

Roles." :oPEN: MON-SAT 9 am-11 pm:
Scheduled topics are "Women and history, at 9 a.m., "Women this friday and every • SUNDAy 12 noon 11 • and the Law" at 9:50, "Women fridayS :1 S mass & • -pm • in Art" at 10:40, "Women 1n supper : COLD BEER, PACKAGE UQUOR,:
Religion" at 1 p.m., "The Home­maker and the Humanities" at • W]N"J;' GOURMET FOODS • 
2:20. Each presentation will be • ~ • 
followed by a question and answer all : 3114 S. 11 ST. NILES, MICIDGAN: 
A I • 1 Block North of state line on U.S. 31 :

~-------· ~ .
I

~~~~~ I r-----------------------------~==========~-·-·_-_•_•__•_•_•__•_•_•__•_•__•_•_•__•_•__•_•_•__•_•__•_•__•_•_·__·_·__·...· 
~~z<>~iJ.'))Q ~ 


I ~~:.))~~

I ~\S' Q I 
I I 

IMEASURMENTSI IWILL BE_TAKENI 
c 
I FOR II The Rental of I I Faculty and I
I I
Student I I 
1 CAPS I 1I and 1I IGOWNS_ 1 I
I I I I I I I 
I I I I 
I 
I 



I -1 
e. 

Your challenge is to construct the mystery missing letters to the corresponding num­word in the boxes below. To do this you must bered boxes. Keep an eraser handy-it's not fill in the correct missi'ng letter in each of the as easy as it looks! words listed in the columns. Then transfer the 

1. S_RAP .2. P_ACH 3._EECH 
4. FAC_S  s. TRAI_  
s. _QAST  9, QU_TE  
s. TEA_S  10. BR_WN  
1. B_ILS  11. _AILS  


IWednesday I 


When there's a challenge, I April 27 I quality makes the difference. 
We hope you have some fun with the challenge. 


I Thursday I 

There's another challenge we'd like to offer you, too. The Pabst challenge: 

I April 28 I 

We welcome the chance to prove the quality of our beer. We challenge you to taste and compare Pabst Blue Ribbon to any other premium beer. You'll 



I· I9:00AM-I 
I like Pabst better .. Blue Ribbon quality means the best tasting beer you can get. Since 1844 it always has. 
I 4:30 PMI 

PABST. Since1844.The quality has always come through. 
INOTFiE DAME I 

©1976. PABST BREWING COMPANY Milwaukee. Wis., Peoria Heights. Ill., Newark. N.J.. Los Angeles. Calif.. Pabsl. Georgia. 
~~2~SJg~-~-~~~·~,-~~--~~-.-----~~~~--~A~-··Aw__.__.._._~~--··-'"·---~··~·~··~·­
Friday, April 22, 1977 the observer 
7 

South Bend history: 
Crumlish initiates ''Heritage Awareness'' 
by Karen Rinks 

Editor's Note: This Is the second In a three-part series describing the efforts to preserve the historical heritage of South Bend. 
Brian Crumlish, an architect with Crumlish and Sporleder, lives in the near northwest. He is presently involved in a project of the neigh­borhood entitled ''Heritage Aware­ness". The dwellings are surveyed in the same manner as required by the National Register. He stressed that a home which has been rated superior and is worthy of recogni­tion is the National Register means nothing unless the residents in the neighborhood become aware of the value of preservation and are willing to recognize the need. 
Heritage Awareness is designed to educate the people in the community. Crumlish speculated that of the 2300 homes surveyed, approximately 25-100 have earned a "superior rating." The neighbors have been asked to write the history of the neighborhoods as they can remember. After the histories have been compiled a walking tour will be published. All of this information will then be collected, a small guide will be published including a description of the development of the area, a summary of the architectural styles, stories by the residents and finally the walking tour. All of this is being done in hopes that the poeple of the neighborhood will become more sensitive and aware of their heritage and develop a sense of pride toward their com· munity. ' 
Crumlish feels that the only opposition encountered by the com­mission is people often feel their constitutional rights are being vio­lated when controls are imposed. ''After the homes have been recog­nized as having historic value, controls are placed on the home. The controls are designed only to 
NOTICES 

Water Safety Instructors-current certification. Summer church camp positions. Equal opportunity em­ployer. Send resume attn: Pat, 333 
W. Colfax, South bend, Ind. 46601. 
NEED TYPING? Executary, Inc. Professional Typing Service. 10 ty. pists -various typestyles. Term papers: $.85 page. Resumes: $2.00 page. Call 232-0898. 
Niles Auction. 802 Fort St. 684-6954 or 684-4671. Auction every Friday 
7:30. We buy and sell furniture, appliances, anitques, and misc. items daily 12:00 p.m. to 6:00p.m. 
Accurate, fast typing. Mrs. Donoho. Hours: 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. 
Dancin' Irish try-out clinics start Sunday, April 24 in LaFortune Ball­room at 1 p.m. Open to NO junior, sophomore, and freshmen women. 
FOR RENT 

Rooms. $40 month. 233-1329. Rides. 
3 EXCELLENT HOUSES IN FINE NEIGHBORHOODS. Each ideal for 4-6 students. Cost adjusted to number df students $225-$300 plus utilities. Call Mr. Gatto 234-6688. 
For rent for next September. Fur­nished four bedroom house. Coup blocks from Notre Dame. Phone 277-3604. 
Summer rental. Furnished, four­bedroom house. $100.00 a month. Phone 277·3604. 
·Summer renters wanted. 3 bedroom house, furnished. Very reasonable. : Close to campus. Call 283-3626. 
4 bedrooms, furnished apartment within walking distance of campus. Call William Hill, 232-1724. Sum­mer occupancy only. 
Two bedroom house to rent. Sum. mer and-or school year. $120 mo. plus utilities. 1o12 Eddy Street. Call Oddies Harris at 232-8563. 
Rooms for rent this summer. Vel') reasonable, and just a few blocks from Notre Dame. Phone 277-3604. 
LODGE CABINS ON LAKE MICH­IGAN FOR RENT by days, week, month. Only 30 min. from campus. Gintaras Resort, 15860 Lake Shore Rd. Union Pier, Mich. 616-469;3298 
$-bedroom house, real nice, largt living room and kitchen, fully fur. llished, close to campus, has burglar alann, call Charlie Moore 232-7180. 
--:---=-----------­
encourage people to do things to preserve the natural historic char­acter of the exterior of their homes," he explained. "There are people who are sensitive to this. 
When they move into an area where controls already exist. it doesn't seem to present much of a problem. But when they live in an area where none exist. they do become offended." 
He emphasized the fact that throughout the downtown area, beautiful structures have been greatly altered by sidings or addi­tions attached which destroys the natural effect. "We are not interes­ted in changing the land use of the structure," he stated. "The intent is to preserve the external physical quality of the building." 
The · commission together with many concerned citizens are attempting to maintain a standard in the city. "But," Crumlish urged, "it has to be done by first discussing with and educating the people of the neighborhoods." 
Neighborhood restoration and historic preservation go hand-in­hand. The neighborhood of neces­sity in the 19th century included a wide variety of economic positions, of social ranks and of ethnic backgrounds. When these neigh· borhoods were being built in their present forms, replacing older structures in many cases, they took their tone fro~ the men who dominated South Bend. 
Although people in the past ten years have moved to the suburbs, a trend to return to the inner-city is occurring. Many reasons are given to the recent interest. The major cause is most dwellings still left standing in the city are good buys. Jeffrey Gibney, his brother David and David's wife Rosemary, are three people who felt the urge to return to city Hving. 
Last fall, the Gibney brothers purchased a condemned Queen 
Sumnter lease from June 1 to August 25. Near ND-4 bedroom and 5 bedroom furnished houses. 1 bedroom and 3 bedroom furnished apartments. Call 234-2626. 
Hickory Village sublease for sum­mer. Studio Apartment. $125 per month. Call 272-8006 late evenings. 
Nice 3 bedroom house for rent during summer. Close to Logan Center. $100 per month. 259-7488. 
Girls rooms for rent in nice house close to Logan Center for summer. $50 per month. 233-2613. 
LOST& FOUND 
Lost: Gold digital men's watch over at B-ball courts next to Stepan. Reward for return to Bob at phone 1779. 
Lost: St. Mary's class ring at Senior Formal. Initials are "COB '79 BS" If found, call Colleen at 284-5720. 
Lost: Black leather gloves near Hayes-Healy. Call Debbie 7906. 
Found: Brown frame glasses with brown leather clip on case in O'Shag. Call Mary Pat at 6789. 
Lost: Gold inscribed bracelet. Great sentimental value. Reward. Call 6845. 
Found: Woman's watch near Post Office, Mike 8930. 
Basketball found behind Lyon's Hall. Call 8905. Ask for Scott. 
LOSt: 1 pair of Bauer ice skates. In room 419 of the Administration Bldg. Call Tom at 8348. Reward! 
Lost: Black and white Dalmatian dog, no collar, answers to Princess, in vicinity of ACC, Friday nite April 
15. Reward. Bill Byerline, R. 3 Box 194, Rochester, Ind. or call223-3701 days. 
Lost: Two keys on a silver ring at Saint Mary's or Notre Dame.. If found call 4-4007. 
Lost: Cowboy hat at Law Talent show, in Law Building Saturday. Info. call Michele 4-4692. 
WANTED 
Desperately need ride for two east (to Pa.) on sunday, April 24. Will pay, and share driving. Call 289­1485. . 
2 peop need ride to Southeast Florida .tfter finals. Not much baggage. Tim 1868. 

Anne home situated on West Washington street. The structure sat vacant for nearly sixteen ~rears. 
. "We considered moving to the inner-cit\' for a varietv of reasons.'' Jeff explained. "We decided to buy a home in the downtown area because we knew we could get one of the best buvs in town. The questionable eco-nomic state of the inner-city encouraged us to strong­ly consider buying because we knew we could get a huge amount of house for a small amount of
.. 

money. Few people in the area would consider a condemned house one of "the best buys in town." But the Gibney brothers have successfully restored the structure into a beauti· ful and graceful home. Jeff observed that since the time he and his brother were young, they had many opportunities to experiment in their home. Their folks allowed them to paint, change things around and even alter the house somewhat. "I'm sure we didn't do a great job when we first · started, but our folks didn't seem to care," he recalled. "Instead, they encouraged us to be creative." 
Both brothers have lived in · apartments. Each time they would paint, make slight changes and do whatever they could afford to do , expecially because they were renting. 
"Our friends kept telling us we were crazy to put so much money into a rented aprtment," David stated. "But we weren't actually making that big of an investment. We bought inexpensive paint, sanded wood floors, painted pat­terns and stencils on the walls and really personalized everything." And it has paid off in the end because the work put into the "rented apartments" by the bro­thers was done in preparation for the major undertaking of restoring 
Classified Ads 
FOR SALE 

'63 Rambler. Excellent cond. (parts and body). snow tires, great buy! $350. Call 7515. 
Stereo components. Kenwood KD­3330 table: $150. Sansui 881 re­ceiver: $500. Teac A-360 cassette: $350. Genesis speakers: $300. Like new. Going overseas. Must sell! Make me an offer. 8930. 
'72 Dodge Challenger, 318 VB automatic with console, P-S, AM radio, $1900.00 Call 272-3028 after 5:30. 
'70 Honda CL450. New engine. Excellent condition. Kept garaged. Must sell to buy car. Best offer. 3408. 
Rare fish for sale. Very cheap. Call 1631. 
PERSONALS 

NOTRE DAME ROW lNG TEAM RACES PURDUE UNIVERSITY TO­MORROW, SAT. APRIL 23 AT MISHAWAKA MARINA. BUS TRANSPORTATION PROVIDED AT STEPAN AT 2:00 and 2:30p.m. RACE STARTS AT 3:00p.m. TAKE DOUGLAS RD, RIGHT ON FIR TO JEFFERSON HGWY. MAKE LEFT ON JEFFERSON. MISHAWAKA MARINA IS OFF TO THE RIGHT ON JEFFERSON. PURDUE IS NO. 10 IN THE COUNTRY! SUPPORT THE IRISH! 
Vote Ann McRedmond for UMOC. 
An announcement to all those who think they are geHing away with it • YOU'RE NOTII I know all about It! MGM 
Orest has ugly he hasn't even used 
yet. Vote Orest for UMOC 
DUE TO POPULAR DEMAND, THE STUDENT PLAYERS HAVE ADDED AN EXTRA PERFOR+ MANCE OF WOODY ALLEN'S "PLAY IT AGAIN, SAM" IN THE NAZZ FOR FRIDAY NIGHT, APRIL 
22. THE NEW SCHEDULE IS: PERFORMANCES AT7:00 and 9:00 
p.m. ON FRIDAY, AND THE RE· GULAR8:00 p.m. SHOW ON S.tur­DAY. 
their present home. 
"We have a lot of hobbies that keep us at home," Jeff explained. "We enjoy our home. We like it to have a lot of taste and warmth and to be a creative environment to us so that we can ';;e more creative." 
The Gibney's have .a lot of house for three people. The have rooms for everything they want to do. But more importantly, the experience has enabled the Gibneys the chal­lenge of showing people what they can do. They had to do everything to the house to make it liveable again. "It was not the kind of situation where you walk into a house you've ·just bought and decide you're not really satisfies with the decor or the changes someone has made. We had to completely re-do everytblag. 
The brothers restored their home room-by-room. They did not bor­row the money to do the restoring; they borrowed the money to buy the home. 
According to their account, the restoration was a very slow pro­cess. They saved money be salvag­ing a lot of materials. In approxi­mately ten months;theywereable to put in a new furnace, new plumb­ing, maintain the yard by cleaning out the debris and overgrown landscaping, and restoration to the bottom portion of the home. 
It was not as easy, though, as it may seem. Before purchasing the home, the two brothers walked through "many-a-dump" before finding the one they felt had the mo!.t potcntiai. After they decided to buy their home, they approached the banks downtown for a loan. 
"We went downtown to just about every bank. I never really got any further than the assistant of the assistant of the assistant. Each one of them said no," Jeff recalled. "We went to the bank where our family did business. The n1an I spoke with happened to know our parents and knew they were very hard-working responsible people. He also knew thev had substantial savings in the b·ank and still. it made absolutely no difference." 
The Gibney's wanted the money to restore the inside. They were more than willing to go to great lengths to acquire the loan. They had previously done work in another home and encouraged the load assistants to look at the home and see what could be accom­plished. After about an hour-and-a· half of an attempted persuasion. the loan assistant only laughed and said no, the bank will not loan the money at any interest." 
This series wUI conclude onMoaday 
you should be 
STEPPIN'~ OUT 
1at the 
IRISH WAKE 

· Sat. from 9 -1 at Stepan Center Featuring CHOICE $2°0 or free with happy hour ticket' 
featuring the naming of UGLY MAN 
It's a great day for redheads, Happy Birthday 'Blissa! 
Michelle 'O'H. from Lyons: Although I am too shy to come right out and say it to your face, I think you're one of the cutest, funniest, most interesting people on campus. Whenever I'm near you my blood boils and I turn to jello. 1worship the cinders you run on. I must have you. 
Dear Peanut-Twister, Happy birthday to you, Life is but a zoo. What have you got to lose? Just take it easy on the booze, When you're quenching your thirst, On your twenty.first. 
With love, Cracker Jack 

Do you ever get ph llosoph ical at 3:30 a.m.? If you begin to think at that ;hour, then you must exist...as a member_of Sleep, Ltd. For Inquiries call 4-4235. 
At 8 o'clock on Wednesday mom A ringing phone we sure did scorn But when a voice said "an order 
for you" Eyes lit up but we were puzzled, too. 

A big white box from Dainty Maid From a Calgary Cowboy already paid. To "The Fat Girls" the cake did read And with more poinds we now plead. 
Thanks BGW. Love, The Fat Girls 
...You think Beppo or Otto Is ugly. Take a look (a short one at that) at Dave McAlpine and you'll know he deserves UMOC. Vote McAlpine Ugly Man!! 
You should be steppin' out at the Irish Wake Sat. night at Stepan Center. 
LOOKING FOR COMPETENT TY· PISTS FOR NEXT YEARS' PRO· DUCTION STAFF. IF INTERESTED PLEASE DROP A NOTE OFF AT THE OBSERVER OFFICE OR GIVE ME A CALL: KAREN 4-5448. THESE ARE PAID POSITIONS. 
--------~-----­
Do people from Idaho always have red hair and weird working habits? Happy Birthday Melissa. The South Dining Hall Workers Staff. 
All private 3 room furnished up. stairs apartment for married grad­uate student. All utilities. Near Memorial Hospital. No rent In return for helping sister & brother 
(H.S. grad) to and from wheel­chairs, etc. For more lnforma;lon, please call 232-9128. 
Grab the dodo before It gets away. 
The W lid Bunch IV wishes Melissa Erklns a most happy birthday. Have more than a few on usII 
SIESTA IMPORTS. Onyx, gla51 & brass, bone, pottery; chess sets, bookends, jewelry, etc. Great grad. uatlon gifts. 449 Breen-Phllllps. 
Feeling depressed? ND-SMC Hot. 
line 4-4311 open nights.
_____________,_,_ 
We are giving a surprise birthday party for ourselves (refreshments, of coui'Se ll Friday at .c. Ann and Ruth 
.--------------­
Be yourself for a change. Gay Community of Notre Dame. Frl & Sat nights. 10-12. Phone 8870. 
Due to bogus Irish Wake our party 
has been moved to Saturday nite. 
9:00 p.m. 2910 E. Edison. 
Melissa, It only fits that your birthday would fall on Frivolous Frldayl Enjoy! Love, kisses and whatever, Lisa, Cathy, G. B., Buddman, Leo, Andy, Marco, Daaave, Rawbutt, Teresa, Anne, Laura, and a cast of thousands. 
---------------. 
Dear X.O. Zavadny, "Don't move your eyes" while reading your first personal! 
Signed, always apolagetlc 
To the Future Dr. F. 1 All your hard work has paid off. · Congratulations on your acceptance! 1 
Ruff 
lzzy, Jill, Sue & M.J. ROTC ruck! Good time. MM' 
Butty, i Look real nice In gum, VB Is for: 
everyone. 
Moon 
Michelle!, about that personal, 1 lied. Norb's rhe one I want. 
DON'T FORGETI "PLAY IT A· GAIN, SAM" IN THE NAZZ TO­NIGHT AT7:00 p.m. and 9:00p.m., AND SATURDAY AT 1:00 p.m. 
The beauty of Lewis,jJJ Is In the market for a beast. Apply 
P..~-~!.!.:...________ I 
1To my ltallen super-jock, Happy 22nd Birthday, Your Polish Prlncass , (Sto L.at-Sto L.at$$) · 

l 
I 
i 
-.,-" 

8 

Coi.Stephens-ath letic administrator 
by Frank La Grotta Sports Writer 
Certain things are taken for 
granted here at Notre Dame. For 
example, any good Domer can tell 
you that South Bend, Indiana is not 
a dry community and that Father 
Hesburgh is not really a majority 
stockholder in United Airlines. One 
thing that everyone associated with 
the University of Our Lady can 
point out without hesitation is the 
Edward "Moose" Krause is the 
Athletic Director at Notre Dame. 
No one can deny that Krause is a 
as much a part of the Irish tradition 
as the Golden Dome, Knute Rockne 
and food fights in the dining halls . 
after a big Notre Dame victory. 
However, even legends need help and Krause's number one assistant is an amiable fellow known as "the Colonel." Since May of 1976, Colonel John Stephens has filled the capacity of Associate Athletic Director at Notre Dame, one of ·many positions this versatile man has lent his talents to during a 
long lifetime. 
Born in St. Louis, Missouri, where he attended St. Louis Uni­versity High School, Stephens en­rolled at the University of Iowa, where he was graduated in the late 1930's. His career at Iowa was studded with athletic accomplish­ments on the baseball diamond, where he earned three letters, and on the gridiron where he was a freshman phenom. 
He also won the university boxing title (equivalent to Notre Dame's Bengal Bouts) and was the champion of his weight class on the wrestling mats. Upon graduation from Iowa, Stephens attended Notre Dame where he earned his master's degree in guidance and counselling. 
After receiving his master's degree, Stephens took up teaching 

··Paul Stevenson~========================::==========================:===::================================================·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=-:·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·===·===·=-====================================================================== 
Bookstore basketball 
'Elite eight'

======:~i:::==:::~:~===~~~::=~~===ji~~===:===~~~===~ti~i~~ri~:i:~r~:===:~=======~:~=~=~~~t~~~;r====ri;~==~~~f~~r:1;=;==i~==i~==twt==~i -19. 
at McKinley High School in St. 
Louis, where he coached the foot· 
ball and baseball teams. He later 
served in the same capacity in 
Omaha, Nebraska. However; 
Stephens' main avocation; and the 
one that gavehim his title, was the 
military. 

Boasting an active service career 
that spanned thirty years, Stephens 
served as a military attache in India 
and an advisor with the armies of 
Turkey and South Korea. 

A member of the famous First 
Division, Stephens served for four 
years at the Pentagon and also 
worked closely with present Secre­
tary of State, Cyrus Vance. At one 
point in his career, he served as 
commander of a regiment of 6000 
infantrymen. 

Rewarded many times for his service and valor, Stephens received such medals as The Silver Star for Valor in Combat, the 
Purple Heart and three Bronze Stars. He possesses sixteen service ribbons as well as the Legion of Merit. 
After retiring from the military, Stephens found himself at Notre Dame once again in 1964 as director of the Army R.O.T.C. 
"I really enjoyed workinR with the Army R.O.T.C. program here at Notre Dame," Stephens com­mented. "Notre Dame has a lot to be proud of with its' R.O.T.C. record." 
In 1968, Stephens turned down the deanship of a small Missouri college to remain at Notre Dame as assistant Athletic Director; a posi­tion he held until1976 when he was named Associate Director of Ath­letics. His responsibilities at Notre Dame are many. 
"I am actively involved in foot­ball scheduling," explained Stephens "and I work closely with the NCAA. I also deal with budget­ing and personel matters within the 
..;!}'" 

~, 
Assoc. Athletic Director Colonel john Stephens plays an integral part in the functioning of Notre Dame athletics. 
"I think we have a great program here," the associate athletic direc­tor revealed. "In my opinion, the NCAA has the highest regard and the utmost respect for the athletic department at Notre Dame." 
Known as the "Godfather" of the faculty locker room, a nickname that Stephens attributes to his knowing many faculty athletic en­thusiasts, the Colonel relates that the biggest thrill of his life was venturing into a Japanese strong­hold with six men to discuss with the enemy surrender terms prior to the enrl of World War 11. 
It is not easy handling the attatrs of one of the 'largest athletic programs in the world and "Moose" Krause needs all the 
assistance he canget to keep things in order. One man he can depend on for help, a man that's small in 
departmt>nt. I really enjoy working Stephens has nothing but the stature but large in character, is with Ed Krausewho is one of the highest praise for the athletic Associate Athletic Director, Col. .a;;ll;.-t;;i,;m;,;e;.,ga:Jr;,;e;,;;a;;ts;;.,;;in;.;,ath=le;;;t~ic:;;,;;s;;.._..___.;;de~~P~,;,;'a,;rt.;;m;;;;e,;;n,;,t,;;a,;,t.;.N~o;,;;:tr:.;;e;.D:;;,:am~e;,;..___....;;J.;o,;;h,;;n.;S;,;t,;,ep'-h;;e;;;;n,;s;,;,·______"""" 
Tony Pace Pinstripe Problems 
With the signings of free agents Reggie Jackson and Don Gullet, most baseball "experts" were ready to hand the American League Eastern Division crown to the New York Yankees. When the trade for Bucky Dent was consumated, the talk grew to dynasty. Yet, a glance at today's standings finds that the Yankees have won only four of their first twelve outings, leaving them still four games below the 500 mark. 
Because of this slow start, many people have begun to grope for reasons to explain their poor play. Writers who were picking the Yankees to go all the way this year have written stories hinting at dissension on the club. Owner George Steinbrenner doesn't get along with manager Biller Martin. Martin doesn't get along with Reggie Jackson. Jackson doesn't get along with MVP catcher Thurman Munson, etc. This list seems to grow with each passing day. 
While the Bronx Bombers were the gods of the Grapefruit Circuit, they are now the rags of the regular season. The press has given the Yankees more attention than the rest of the major league clubs combined. Every Yankee movement is scrutinized. Sportswriters are looking for good stories and they find them with the Yankees. 
It is very unlikely that the New Yorkers will.have the pennant wrapped up by the Fourth of July. By the same token, it is just as unlikely that the Bombers will finish in the basement. Any lineup that includes Jackson, Munson, Dent, first sacker Chris Chambliss and third baseman Graig Nettles will be in the thick of things come September. 
The Yankees will, however, be subject to this level of exposure throughout the season. They will simply have to Jearn to live with it. Both the press corp and legions of fans are fickle. To them only the present counts. 
If the proverbs call for a grain of salt in these situations, the Yankees ought to buy a pound. Steinbrenner's money has been used for everything 
else. 

~Bookstore Courts. If Wednesday's action was any indication of typical tournament action, then the contests slated between the "Elite Eight" promises to be nothing less than spectacular. Since the tournament will conclude this Sunday, an attempt will be made to choose the winners ofthe next three rounds. Here are the choices for the next three days of tournament action and the 1977 Bookstore Basketball Champion: 
TILCS IV vs. B.F., B*R., and the Milk Duds: 

Dave Batton leads this impressive returning championship squad. The Irish eager is the second leading scorer among the "Elite Eight" teams. The 6-9 junior has connected on 35 of 63 attempts from the field as well as pulling down nine rebounds per game. 
Grid quarterback Joe Montana and Bill Sheehan have each tallied 17 buckets for the TILCS throughout the 1977 tournament. Tom Kirby, who has added 15 points, is the only member of the squad who has been on the team all four years. In fact, Bill Paterno performed with the TILCS in his freshman Bookstore season. 
The Milk Duds are paced by Ted Mavoney who has scored 28 points during tournament play. Tim O'Neill and Jim Martin have added 26 and 25 points respectively, to give the Milk Duds a very balanced scoring attack. 
TILCS have not been displaying the prowess they demonstrated in las1 year's tournament. However, the experience and composure they have gained through tough competition in the past, will be adequate to down the Milk Duds. Give the battle to the TILCS, 21-18. Guys and DoUs vs. The Chumps: 
Guys and Dolls started out as a joke team, with three girls and two guys composing their quintet. However, they have been revamped, to say the least. The "Elite Eight" squad is composed of five new starters, which took over the schedule after the original group captured their first game. 
Bill Singer and Mark Peruschietti lead the attack for Guys and Dolls. The combo have scored 25 and 23 points respectively in tournament action. Greg Garcia adds to a tough hardcourt attack. ­
The Chumps boast the third and sixth leading scorers among the "Elite Eight.'' Bill Hanzlik has notched 33 of 64 attempts, while teammate Tom Sudkamp has tallied 30 of 59. The Chumps are awesome on the boards, and that's where their advantage lies. Guys and Dolls could start either team, but the outcome would still be the same. However, with the new fivesome, the tilt will be a tough one for the Hanzlik crew to handle. Th( Chumps will emerge victorious 21-19; Average White Team vs. Dynamo Bum: 
Bill Paterno and his Average White Team have the most balanced team going into the final rounds. Paterno has tallied 25 point!> in his four games, while Mike Banks and Rusty Lisch have added 28 and 27 buckets respectively in their five game appearance. 
Dynamo Hum boasts the leading scorer of the "Elite Eigh1 Bookstore teams. Dar.·'' Winder has accumulated 39 markers in hi~. tournament play. Dean · :tllan has contributed 23, while the team's latest addition, Dave Kuzmicz, scored nine points in his opening. performance in the 
"Sweet Sixteen." ·. A WT will be making yet another attempt to reach the finals. Dynamo Hum will put up a battle, however, they will be silenced on the Bookstore 
Ebony Magie vs. The Nutmeggers: 
Ebony Magic possesses the most phenominal frontcourt in the Bookstore Tournament. Toby Knight has hit on 30 of 53 field goal attempts, while Dan Knott has hit on 24-48. Luther Bradley has the best shooting percentage among the fmalists, going 30 of 46 in Bookstore action. 
However, every team has a weakness, and Ebony Magic's lies in the backcourt. The duo of Carl Reid and Keith Tobias have connected on only 20 of 58 scoring attempts. 
The Nutmeggers are trying to repeat last year's tournament fortunes and reach the final four. However, although there has been no verification, Mike Meyer and Tim Kardok may not be able to play in today's contest. These Irish tracksters must attend the Ohio State Invitational. What time they must leave for Columbus will decide whether or not they will play today. 
There have not been any substitutes designated in case these two tracksters cannot participate in today's action. An attempt was made to reschedule the game, but an appropriate time could not be set that would agree with the schedules of both teams. 
Guard Mike Howard leads the Nutmegger attack with 29 points. Kardok has also scored 29 buckets, while Mark Meyer has added 25. However, the Ebony Magic squad is extremely talented. With or without their usual starters, the Nutmeggers will fall. The game will go to Ebony Magic 21-18. 
Semi-Finals: 

TILCS IV vs. The Chumps: . . This will be the first major test for the defendmg champtons. The Chumps will be relying on Hanzlik, Sudkamp and Doug Reihle to advance to the finals. However, Batton, Montana and Sheehan will not let this contest escape their grasp. . . . Together with Kirby and John Dubenetzky, thts trto wtll lead the TILCS to their second appearance in the finals in as many years. 1}te Chumps 
will just have to regroup and wait for 1978.  The contest wtll go to the  
TILCS, 23-21.  
Average White Team vs. Ebony Magic:  .  

This looks to be the most exciting matchup of the tournament. ..Thts battle pits the best frontcourt against the most b~lanc~d attack. Kmght, Bradley and Knott have combined for 84 pomts tn 147 attempts. However, AWT boasts three players with more th~n 25 points.. 
With a weak duo in the backcourt, Ebony Magtc could be tn tr?uble against a team of AWT's calibre. A WT tends to be a more conststent ballclub, so give the tilt to AWT, 24-22. 
Finals: 

TILCS IV vs. Average White Team: 
Paterno and company have been in this situation twice before, only to end up the tournament on a losing note. The 1977 Bookstore Basketball Tournament wiiJ be an exception to this previous standard. 
TILCS does not have the potential to repeat their title. The contest will be a ma.tchup of cage stars Batton and Paterno as well as football quarterbacks Montana and Lisch. Paterno and Lisch will capture this confrontation as well as the 1977 Bookstore crown, 23-21. 
*Observer 

Sports 
Erratum 

In yesterday's issue of The Observer, the. times given for upcoming tennis matches were incorrectly listed. The Irish netters will host Michigan State university at 1 p.m. on Saturday. At 10 a.m. on Sunday, the Notre Dame tennis team will entertain the University of Wisconsin. On Monday, the Irish will play Kalamazoo College at 2 p.m. 
In addition, the Irish lost to Indiana University 5-1 in a match that was called due to rain, not 8-1 as previously stated. 
An Tostal Football 

Playing in the tradition of An Tostal celebration, Regina Hall battled the rain and McCandless Hall to capture the St. Mary's football championship. 
With an offensive attack which was unaffected by the poor weather conditions, Regina managed only one score, · but with a tough defensive showing, it was the only one needed. · 
Late in the first half halfback 
Karen Sofranko went up the middle 
to give Regina excell~nt field 
position. On the followmg play, 
quarterback Martha McLean drop­
ped back to pass. The other 
halfback, Karen, "J.B." Hooper 
took the McLean pass in the left flat 
and raced up the sidelines for the 
score. The extla point failed but the 
6-0 margin turned out to sufficient 
for the victory. 

The wm was the second of the 
week lor Regina who defeated 
LeMans on Tuesday 21-0. The 
victory yesterday makes Regina 
elegible to pl<>' Badin Hall of Notr~ 
Dame for th An Tostal football 
championship. Game time is 1:30 
Saturday behind Stepan Center. 
J 











