


server 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's
Vol. XII, No. 61 Wednesday, December7, 1977 

Cotton Bowl tix sell quickly 
by Maureen Sajbel Senior Staff Reporter 
Nearly 80 percent of the senior classes of Notre Dame and St. Mary's bought tickets yesterday in the first day of Cotton Bowl ticket sales, and Mike Busick, ticket manager. called the turn out "overwhelming." The original allotment of 1500 tickets was sold out by 4 p.m., according to Busick and 500 additional tickets were taken from the alumni ticket alloca­tion and made available to stu­dents. 
When sales closed · for the seniors, approximately 400 of the additional tickets remained and Busick said that he expected these to sell out "first thing in the morning to juniors and graduate students." He added, "once those 400 are gone, that is it. We were as fair as we possibly could be to the students with the small number of tickets allotted to us." 
He explained that the large first day turn out was probable due to a substantial number of seniors buying tickets for underclassmen. "It seems funny to think that that many seniors would go down to Texas for the Bowl," he com­mented. Also. Busick cited more of an interest in the game than in past bowls. "It is one of the few major bowls in the last few years and students want to go," he noted. 
Notre Dame received 12,000 tickets for this year's Cotton Bowl. Busick explained that the number was based on the fact that "in the last two times we went to the Cotton Bowl we sold a little less than 12,000 tickets each time." 
Of the 1600 tickets sold yester­day, approximately 200 were purchased by St. Mary's students and 1,400 by Notre Dame students. 
The remaining 10,400 tickets are allocated for today's student sales, the band, faculty, staff, athletic coaches and staff and alumni. 
Because of the additional tickets given to student sales Busick announced that the alumni would now have to go into a lottery to get tickets. The alumni sale begins Thursday and he reported that the ticket office so far has received over 6,000 requests from alumni by mail. 


PAGEANTRY 
12:15 P. M. 
Committee ~reports presented 



Bu!sick addresses HPC 
demand does not materialize like I

the hall presidents and other by Michael Le1vis students at the meeting concerning think it will." Senior Staff Rep)rter 
the distribution of tickets to the Students and contributing alum-Cotton Bowl. ni are "traditionally the two top Cotton Bowl tickets and the priority groups" in the distribution 
Lyons Hall president Jayne Rizzo
preliminary proposal for amend­of post-season bowl tickets, he ments to the Student Government added.
asked Busick to explain why the Constitution were among the topics Student Union-sponsored trip to discussed at last night's Hall Constitution Committee Reports
the Bowl fell through. Busick Presidents' Council (HPC) meeting 
explained that when SU Director in Walsh Hall. Tom Gryp contacted him before . Also at the meeting, the ad hoc: Mike Busick, Notre Dame ticket Thanksgiving about obtaining stu­Constitution Committee presented 
fielded from its preliminary proposal for amend­
dent tickets for the trip, he told Gryp that tickets would be availa­
I 
ing the Student Government Con­
ble. Gryp later called me back and 
stitution. 

said that the deal fell through and 
The proposal has three major

that Student Union didn't need any 
areas of amendment. It establishes 

tickets," he added. 
a Student Union Steering Commit­

Busick said that the student tee and a Judicial Council, made up demand for tickets was ''greater 
of Judicial Board chairmen from 

than I had anticipated.'' He noted 
each hall. It also revises the 

that Notre Dame had received the 
structure of the Board of Commis­

minimum allotment of 12,000 tick­sioners. ets, and that 1500 had originally The proposal was not open for been reserved for students. An amendment last night. The HPC additional 500 tickets was added to will hold a meeting Sunday at 1 the student allotment when all 1500 p.m. to receive possible amend­were sold yesterday. ments and comments from the hall 
Mike Roohan, president of St. presidents.Edward's Hall, asked would more HPC Chairman J. P. Russell than these 500 tickets be offered to stressed the importance of HPC students if needed. "In all approval of the proposal before 
honesty, I'd have to say no,'' Christman break. "This wouldMIKE BUSICK Busick replied, "unless the alumni allow several weeks at the begin­
ning of next semester to act on the proposed constitution ..." he said. He also stated, "I think this thing and all the hard work that's gone into it could really get ruined if it becomes a campaign issue next semester.'' 
In other matters, Fr. James Riehle, University director of ener­gy conservation, asked for student cooperation in the administration's plan for conserving energy over break. 
Riehle asked the students to empty and disconnect all refrigera­tors and other electrical appliances, lock all windows, and tum off all radiators. 
He pointed out that the ND power plant could operate with a number of energy sources, includ­ing coal, gas, and oil. "We have one of the most efficient power plants in the country, but an awful Jot can be done to conserve energy, particularly at the dormitory lev­el," he stated. 
He explained that .the University has saved approximately six million kilowatts per hour each year since 1972 through conservation mea­sures. He added that the Univer­sity is planning to histall individual room thermostats and timers to automatically turn off the lights in ;orne classrooms. 
"Winning this battle is right at your level," he concluaed. 
Gryp announces Cotton Bowl tour 
by Bob Brink Ass't Managing Editor 

Plans for a Cotton Bowl tour for students contracted by indep­endent agent Michael A. Chismar., regional director of public relations and development for the University were annou.nced yesterday by Student Union Director Tom Gryp. Called the "Go Irish Tour," the package provides transportation to 
. Dallas and lodging within the city for the game. It does not include a ticket to the Cotton Bowl. It's a miracle that this happened," Gryp said, explaining how the tour developed. He stated that the Student Union had stopped actively searching for ways to arrange a trip for students after plans for their first student charter · fell through. 
Gryp gave credit to Coach Dan Devine for initiating the movement for some kind of "deal" for the 
students. He explained that 

Devine felt concerned for the students when he learned that efforts to secure a charter for 
. students had failed. Devine had 
. contacted his friend Chismar and asked him if there was anything that could be done to help the students. Chismar, who has already worked on another Cotton Bowl tour called the "Green Machine Tour," then arranged the "Go Irish Tour" for the students and brought the plans to the attention of Gryp through a friend on Monday afternoon. The tour leaves South Bend for Dallas on Saturday Dec. 31. Buses will take participants from South Bend to Chicago where they will take an American Airlines plane non-stop to Dallas. Transportation will also be provided to and from the Holiday Inn in downtown Dallas, where tour members will stay for three days and three nights in double occupancy rooms. . 
On game day, Monday, Jan. 2, tour participants will be trans­ported from the hotel to the game, and back to the hotel after the game. The tour does not involve any arrangement for renting a car while in Dallas. Finally, the group will fly back non-stop to Chicago on Tuesday, Jan 3, where there will be buses to take them to South Bend. 
The price for the tour is $272.50. This amount must be paid in full in advance. 
Gryp said that the maximum number of students the trip can accomodate is 175. He added that there is a minimum of 90 students needed or the whole deal will be off. 
Sign-ups for the trip will begin this Thursday at 9 a.m. in the Student Government offices on the second floor of the · LaFortune Student Center, and will continue until Wednesday, Dec. 14. There will be no preference according to class. Checks should be made payable to the "Go Irish Tour." 
Gryp explained that the Student Union would not cash any checks until after Dec. 14. If at that time the necessary 90 people had not signed up, the checks would be returned to the students. 
"I think it shows that nothing is impossible when Notre Dame puts their mind to it," :Gryp said in reference to an article in last week's Observer in which he described the chances for another bowl game charter as impossible. 
'.'I'd like to extend my thanks to Mr. Chismar for arranging the deal, and my very special thanks to Coach Devine for taking it upon himself to get the ball moving," Gryp commented. . · 
"It shows a very keen interest in the welfare of the student body.'l 

Wednesday, December 7,1977
2 the observer 


,_News Briefs ____........._,. 

Rise in oil prices? 
Washington-President Carter will reconsider his promise to let the price of newly-discovered oil rise to the world market level if Congress fails to produce a comprehensive energy plan, an administration official said yesterday. Apparently trying to apply direct pressure on Congress, the highly-placed official, who declined to be identified, said that if Congress does not produce the legislation "we would have to take another look at" Carter's oil price pledge. 

Fight fat! 

New York -The nation's "war on fat" has burgeoned into a $10 billion a year industry because 70 million overweight Americans are willing to do almost anything to shed some pounds, a new report says. Frost & Sullivan Inc., a New York-based market research firm, said in the 260-page report that Americans are spending more money than ever before to fight fat. 
WEATHER FAIR AND SUNNY 

~On Campus Today-----.... 
10 am art sale, annual pre-christmas art sale, o'shag 
12:15 pm seminar, "studies on pathogene sis of atherosclerosis" 
2:30pm 
3:25pm 
4:30pm 
5:15pm 
6:30 pm 
7 pm 
7pm 
7 pm 
7 pm 
7 pm 
7:30 
pm 

7:30 
pm 

7:30 
pm 


Bpm 
9 pm 
9 and 11 pm 10 pm 

by dr. robert wissler, sponsored by the dept. of micro-biology, rm 278 galvin-life science 
forum, "the ownership and organization of business enterprises in yugoslavia", by dr. irvan ribniker, sponsored by bus. amd., rm 121 ha,yes-healy 
seminar, "interfacial phenomea in enhanced oil recovery systems" by prof. darsh t. wasan, sposnsored by the chem. engr. dept., rm 269 chem engr. bldg 
nieuwland lecture, "the use of inorganic pyrophosaye as a source of energy in metabolism", by prof. harland 
g. wood, rm 123 nieuwland hall 
mass, tasters mass, walsh chapel 
rape awareness and prevention program, sponsored by the smc dept. of student affairs, carroll hall smc, all welcome 
meeting, sailing club, rm 204 engr. bldg. 
meeting, tokyo program, sponsored by the dept. of modern and cl.assical languages, basement of Iafortune 
radio free notre dame, with steve thomas and peter gregory, final christmas special, wsnd 640 am 
lecture, "exploration applications of landsat imagery" by dr floyd f: sabins, sponsored by the earth science dept., rm 101 earth sci bldg 
film, "ukiyo prints", sponsored by the dept. of mod. lang., basementof Iafortune, free 
concert', ted nugent, tickets $7 and $6, a.c.c. 
lecture(in french) "le vitenam a l'heure actuelle" by dr. trai le, sponsored by the alliance francais de south bend, stapleton lounge, smc 
lecture, "the fun<.tion of narrative discourse", by paul ricoeur, sponsored by the philo dept., lib. aud. 
concert, "beethoven and brahms come alive, " sponsored by the howard academic cultural committee, howard hall, free 
nazz, open stage, basement of Iafortune 
film "wuthering heights", spon. by lyons hall, lyons hall chapel, $1 
prayer service of reconcilliation and penance, badin chapel 

Faculty approve retirement plan 


• 3 drafts br $1.00 • 2 cans for $1.00 

8:<XPM TO 2:30AM WEDNESDAY 
prizes T-5hits posters mug special!! 
buy a Corby mug & get one free Slrohs tl up 
by Dave Rumbach Senior Staff Reporter 
The FcuJty Senate in a close vote involving fewer than half its mem­bership, last night defeated an amended version of a triple-option retirement plan proposed by its standing, Committee on Faculty Affairs. 
The original proposal gave facul­ty members three options: 1)early retirement between the ages of 62 and 65 with some loss of benefits, 2)guaranteed half-time appoint­ment at half salary between the ages of 65 and 70! at the faculty member's discretion, and 3)con­sideration for full-time appoint­ment at the discretion of the Committee on Appointments and Promotions (CAP) of the faculty member's department. 
The amendment, proposed by Senate Vice Chairman Sarah Daugherty, placed the half-ap­pointment guaranteed by the orig­inal proposal in the hands of the CAP in the faculty member's department. 
The Senate passed the amend­ment by a vote of 10 to 9 with two abstentions, only to defeat the amended proposal 11 to 9 with one abstention in a vote that was split 
*The Observer 
lead Vocals: Joe Bauer lead Guitar: R••semary Mills Backing Vocals: Bart Corsaro Back-up Guitar: Tony Pace Percussion: Tony Pace (he moves fast) Keyboards: Mark Rust, Tricia Meehan, Julie Judd, Super dex Guest Pianist: Kathy Mills Drums: Maribeth Moran Horn Section: Jack Pizzolato, Joan Fremeau Cover Photos: Doug Christian Goodbye Maureen Sajbel 
Th!c' Ohwrwr 1~ publl'fwd Monday through f mldy and W!c'!c'klv dunng thP sumnwr wssmn. PXCPpt dunng thP pxam .1nd va<atiOn pPnod, ThP Ohsprv<>r ,., publi'>ht>d b~ stud<>nts of the Un1wrs1t\ oi NotrP DamP and St Mdry ·., Coll<>gt• Suhscnptions mav hP pun hased tor $20 pPr year ($10 pPr SPrTlP>lN) from ThP Obwr­ver. 13ox Q. NotrP DamP. lnd1ana 46156 SPcond class po~tagP pa1d. Notr!c' DamP, lnd1ana 461'i6 
The OhservPr IS d mPmbPr of the Ao;sociatpd Pre>'> All r!c'produ(tlon nghh arP r.-wr'!•d 
EVERY WBl AND 
TH~NIGHT 
BEER FOR


40 OZ 

$1.00 
AT 


10 to 10 after the first tabulation. 
Prof. Irwin Press opposed the amendment because it failed to differ significantly from the present policy of the University, stating, "The amendment is precisely the policy we have. Why should we emasculate a proposal like this?" 
Daugherty argued that the pro­posal was a significant improve­ment because it provided that faculty members _be considered for half-time appointment as a matter of course at age 65. "By Fr. Hesburgh's interpretation, all ap­pointments are automatically ter­minated at age 65 except in extraordinary cases," she said. "This, instead, obligates the U~:~i­versity to consider faculty membe:rs reaching the age of 65 the same as anyone else." 
Supporting the amended pro­posals, Prof. John Lyons noted that the original proposal would give faculty members "a discretionary power they never had at another critical junctures of their careers.'' He also questioned the original proposal's effect on younger teach­ers, saying, ''The more we dema11 d 
[continued on page 7] 

att. Hungry SMC Students 
XA'iA\J[ 113A\Nt()ll Jltll 
***************** 
DECEMBER 8 4:30-6:15 SMC DINING HALL [SIGN UP PRIOR IN DINING HALL] 
OC & Day -students FREE Mass in Loretto following at 7 pm 
'LITE 
UP 
buy a xmas -tree lite -$.50 ~ 
during meals SMC dining hall betvveen Dec. 8-1 s Bedeck the 


SOMEONE 
tree with your own lite. Proceeds to go the Logan Center. 
ELSE'S 


LIFE 
featurilg the 

2 O'CLOCK 001\1180 
and 
1HE WOOOGIE ­

LEBO RYTI-1\11 SECTION 
THE CAUCASIAN CHALK CIRCLE 
Brecht's Parable of justice belonging 
Decerriler 2,3,8,9, 10 
ata:OO p.m.


THEATRE 
All seats $2.50 ($2 Std-Fac-Staff) Phon 


....--....,.....--...-----~-----------~·-~·-···~-~---·----·-~-·--·-· 
Wednesday, December 1, 19n 
the observer 

Coordinator selection postponed 
by Jack Pizzolato Senior Staff Reporter 
Selection of a full-time Minority Student coordinator will not take place before next semester, accord­ing to Angie Chamblee, chariman of Notre Dame's Black Student Affairs Committee. The committee has been trying to fill that position for the past three months. 
"We're shooting for next semes­ter," Chamblee said, "But we're not going to hurry. We want to make the position workable." 
The selection of a Minority Student coordinator was one of several proposals worked out by 
·administrators and minority students last April after members of the black community staged a sit-in demonstration to publicize their grievances against the Uni-
Premedders: 

verstiy. The coordinator would act as a liason between the administra­tion and minority grotllps at Notre Dame. 
"Top priority" was officially given to the Minority Student coordinator proposa.l and the University delegated the respon­sibility of drafting a job description and of reviewing applicants to the 15 member Black Student Affairs Committee. Bro. Jus:t Paczesny, vice-president for Student Affairs, announced at the time that he hoped the position might be filled by September. 
According to Chamblee, however, there was a misunder­standing between the administra­tion and the Black Student Affairs Committee over the committee's role in the selection process. "I didn't know it was ieft up to us until September,'' Chamblee commen­
how do they 
view the ND program?! 
by Patrick Cole Special Projects Editor 
EDITOR'S NOTE: This is the second of a three-part series exam­ining the preprofessional studies department and preparation for the health professions by Notre Dame students. Today's story wUI illus­trate what the students think about the program. Tomorrow's story wUI discuss how medical schools admit students to their programs. 
Meet Bill, a senior pre-med student on campus. For the past four years, he's been preparing for medical school, taking science course after science course, taking exam after exam in the science preprofessional department. "The first two years you have to study most,'' Bill said. Fc•r most stu­dents on campus preparing for medical school, it's a challenge to persevere, trying to make himself an attractive candidate: for medical school. 

All the hard work, enduring hours in the lab, memorization of formulas boils down to the first semester of the senior year: application time. Bill chose to apply to St. Louis University Medi­cal School. A mission impossible? Almost. Last year 7,300 students applied for the 151 available slots in the entering class. The year before that, 9,030 students applied for the same number of slots. But last month, Bill got his wish. He was accepted to St. I.ouis Univer­sity School of Medicine and is now 
[continutld on page 4] ted, "which was a terrible time to 
start. If I had been aware in June, 
we would be that much further 
ahead." 
The committee has reviewed 
several applications and has 
interviewed two perspective candi­
dates for the position. One of those 
two will meet today with represen­
tatives of campus minority groups. 
Present will be members of the 
Black Cultural Arts Commission 
(BCAC) and of MECHA, an organ­
ization of Hispanic students. 
"Students will have a chance to 
see whoever we consider," Cham­
blee said. She also explained that 
the committee will meet with 
Paczesny before Christmas to final­
ize a job description. All commit­
tee decisions are subject to the 
approval of the Office of Student 
Affairs. 
In October, the Black Student Affairs Committee submitted a preliminary job description that was received "favorably" by the administration. The Minority Stu­dent coordinator, as outlined in the proposal, would have a variety of functions. 
Specifically, he or she would work with the Placement Bureau and with the Admissions Office to guarantee adequate opportunities and openings for minority stu­dents. Among other responsibili­ties, the coordinator would assist in increasing funding programs for minorities, would maintain perti­nent records and data, make available up-to-date scholarship and fellowship information and expand minority alumni programs. 
Chamblee said the Black Student Affairs Committee is looking for an individual with at least a masters degree and with a related back­ground in Student Affaris. Neither she, nor the committee is adverse to extending the search outside the U~iversity, if necessary. 
1n gauging minority student reaction to the delay in the selection process, Chamblee remarked that "the groups were rather upset and impatient when no one knew what was going on. But now," she continued, "they hav~ representatives who report back tpthem on our progress." 
"The groups know we are working," Chamblee observed, "and they have a large role in the selection process. So they are willing to wait.'' 
BCAC President Renard Gueringer prefered not to comment directly on the progress of the Black Student Affairs Committee, · nc ting that "it's all been said b1 fore." Gueringer has previously CJ iticized the selection process as b !ing "rather slow." 

·FRANK'S PLACE 

Restaurant & Lounge 

\ 

327 W. Marion St. South Bend , lnd. Phone 232-2277 
visit our package liquor store 
The BCAC president"tlid remark that "this is no reflection on the candidates, but you would think a position of this importance would draw more than two candidates. You have to ask," he added, "if it was publicized well enough or if a real effort was made to find someone in the collegiate community." 
Paczesny has refused since November to comment on the situation, although Chamblee noted that "for the most part, the 
administration  has given  us  as  
much  cooperation  as  we've  
needed."  

"The effectiveness of the Minority Student coordinator de­pends on the person selected for the position," chamblee stated, "that's why it's taking so long." 

The )lnswer Lies 
In BI()Wing Into 
~ a~re 
WitWjammer 
CREATIVE
1637 LWW So. Bend HAIR DESIGN 232-6622 
FOR THE SEXES
Appointment only 

t._._._~sMc._So~~~c~;;~~~;~·~.-~ 
~ is sponsoring the annual I 
I~ CHRISTMAS BAZAAR! ' 
i  i  
1  Dec 5., 6, & 7  1  
\~  #  1Qam  -SPm  'i  
~ ~  LeMons Lobby  . '  iI  
~  ~  
\ Candy, Ceramics,  ~  
~  Xmas Decorations,  I  

~ Many more gift items\ 

TED NUGENT 
fit 
wi1h special ~1s GOlDEN EARRNG 
also LEGS DIAMOND Wed.-December 7-7:30 pm NOTRE DAME ACC 
All seats reserved $7°0& $6°0 on sale now at ACC Box Office,ticke1 office and usual off campus c~utlets' 

i_---_..__--------...... --~'·-.l 

---------~------~~--~------~ 
Wednesday1 December 7I 19n
4 

Pre-med called 1Competitive', 1Challenging' 
[continued from page 3] assured that he will attend medical school. 
Was the hard work worth it all? "I studied. most weekdays and weeknights which I didn't think was a hardship," he said. "But I think everyone in the University works pretty hard." And now he can relax. 
Most pre-medical and pre-dental students undergo a similar four year experience of hard work, perseverence and finally waiting to see if they are accepted to medical . school. What is it like? Listen to : what other students have to say. ' 
"Competitive," said Terry Joiner, a senior biology major from Huntsville, Ala. In the College of Science, your grades are deter­mined by how well you can compete against your classmates." 
"Challenging," said Kathy Strah, a senior science preprofes­sional major from Twinsburg, Oh. "It's a pretty tough program. I have to work at it, whereas for other people they may not have to work as hard on certain subjects." 
"Rigorous," said Rick Pacropis, a senior science preprofessional major from Ambler, Pa. "It never lets up. You're through with one exam, and then you're hit with another.• You don't have chance to totally relax in the school year." 
Most pre-medical and pre-dental students told The Observer that their program of study requires about 20 to 30 hours per week after the freshman and sophomore years. "On one of my chaotic days, I might have to study about nine hours," said a science preprofes­sional junior. "But I usually study about four hours a night." 
Said Strah, "It was heavier during my sophomore and junior years, so I studie about 30 hours per week." 
The reason behind study is none other than grades. Said one student, "For most pre-med cours­es, you want to get at least a "B." If you mess up one test that_ could well affect your entire grade." 
Jeff Cole, a senior science pre­professional major from Wexford, Pa., said that for one of his courses, inorganic chemistry, grades were allocated among students. "In inorganic chemistry," he said, "so many people got certain grades. For example, ten percent got A's, another ten percent received A­minuses, maybe 25 percent bot B's. That was cut and dry. But it was the standard you had to play into." 
"Organic chemistry was the hardest course for me," said one senior preprofessional major. It was rough because of the nature of the course and the competition. There were 400 people in the class when I took it.'' 
Despite the pressure to succeed and to get into medical school, several students at Notre Dame disagree that cut-throat tactics are widespread. Debbie Darnley, a senior biology concentrate, said that she has always found coopera­tion among other science students. "I've always found cooperation," she said. "I know cut-throat tactics go on at other schools, but I've never known anyone to sabotage an experiment.'' 

Pacropis said that "there's a lot more cooperation at Notre Dame among pre-med students than a lot of people think." He continued, "It's a competitive atmosphere because you're put on a bell­shaped curve. But I haven't seen anybody cut someone else's throat. 
But one student said, "In Emil Hofman's freshman chemistry class, there's some cheating that goes on." 
Cole experienced the loss of his science textbook. But, he said, "I haven't witnessed any cut-throat tactics. A thing about the text book -it was taken from the dining hall. But I guess they took it because they needed it, not because they wanted to keep me from studying.'' 
So are pre-med students happy with the program? Some students appear to be content with it. "The science preprofessional program allowed for flexibility," said Bill Askins, a senior from Flemington, 
N.J. "It allowed me to pursue a broad liberal arts education while studying interdisciplinary sci­ences." 
"I think the program is extreme­
ly effective," Askins continued. 
"However, excessive pursuit of 
high grades can preclude the 
possibility of developing oneself as 
a humanist and a scientist. And 
this should be the salient goal of a 
preprofessional major.'' 
A junior science preprofessional 
major said that the preprofessional 
studies program at Notre Dame is 
"not an easy path to follow." 
"But then it was not meant to be," she added. "One of the things a doctor has to be able to do is persevere. Overall, I think the pre-med program does a good job because I've talked to other stu­dents and they believe it's gOOd, too." 
mgh-prlced medical schools 
For many students, the cost of four years of medical school will present an economic burden, es­pecially those desiring to attend private medical schools. And the cost is not decreasing. Next year, tuition at Georgetown University School of Medicine will be an astounding $12,500. ~ Another $2,500 at minimum will be charged for room and board fees, according to Medical School Admission Re­quirements 1978-79 published by the Association of American Medi­cal Colleges. 
At Jefferson Medical College in Philadelphia, tuition will rise from $4,000 next fall to $6,000. At Dartmouth Medical College, tuition will be $7,015 next year instead of $5,750. Tuition at St. Louis University will increase next fall from $3,500 to $5,000. 
As a result, many students expect to borrow money for medical school. "I would be willing to incur a substantial amount of debt to attend medical school," said Askins. "I'll take out as much as necessary. I think that with the salary a doctor receives, he can pay the money hacJs.._ So I'm n9J
[conuuued on page 


Add leadership to your college schedule. 

College military science courses are courses in leadership development. They offer you management experiences which will benefit you in any career, civilian or military. 
You can take the first courses as a freshman or sophomore without obligation. Advanced courses, in your junior and senior years, lead you to a position of responsibility as an officer in the active Army or Reserves. 
As an Army ROTC student, you'll also have the opportunity to compete for 3 and 2-year full tuition scholarships. And you'll earn near­ly $2000 during your last 2 years of college. 
Don't wait until after college to get practical, management experience. Add leadership to your class schedule now. 
ARMY ROTC. LEARN WHAT IT TAKES TO LEAD. 
For details, contact: 
Major John MacNeill 219-283-6264/6265 


ff[[DJWIII 
mm 
·­
• ' 
.If rou w•nt lhe re•l thing, not frozen or CMinld ••• We call II 
."Mexlc•n Food Supreme." 
Dalln location: 
~071 Northwe11 Hwy 
352·1570 


TONIGHT AT THE LIBRARY 8 TO 1 
ABSTCHALLENGES YOU TO FORGET THE BOOKS AND GET OUT OF 
THE OTHER LIBRARY' FOR PABST NIGHT 
EARLY BIRD SPECIALS 8 TIL 9 PABST EXTRA LIGHT 1o~ 
a chft 
ANDEKER 25~ a chft 
9 TIL 1 PABST and PABST EXTRA LIGHT 25~ 
a ctaft 
ANDEKER 'the roost expensive tasting beer' 
$1.60 a pitcher 
FREE T-SHIRTS POSTERS and OTHER GIFTS 
remember thurs. night 7&7 
3 for $1.00 
Wednesday, December 7, 1977 
the observer 

Recollection of a Nazi POW 
A 60 year old survivor of the Auschwitz ..:oncentration camps walked down a modern city street in Warsaw, Poland. He was walking toward a monument that before the war used to be the heart of the Jewish ghetto. Warsaw, leveled in the war, was rebuilt to resemble the city of old. 
Hut when it was rebuilt most traces of the Jewish ghetto had vanished. 
The monument and a hollowed out synagogue that the Nazis had used as a warehouse were the only traces left at all. The monument was in memory of an armed uprising by the few Jews left in the city of Passover day in April of 1943. It was an uprising with no hope of victory, and everyone who participated died. 
The man, coming to the monument, stopped and stared. He began to recite to himself the Jewish prayer for the dead. When he finished the prayer he hoped to hear, from somewhere,-an "amen." But he only heard an echo. 
Sigmund Strochlitz, whose entire family died in the Auschwitz camps, visited Notre Dame Saturday night. This summer he returned to his native Poland for the first time since he was liberated alBergen-Bel­sen in 1945. Strochlitz read to an audience in the Galvin Life Science Auditorium from his journal of the feelings he had during his return trip with his wife, Rose, and their three married children. 
Strochlitz is now a businessman living in New London, Connecticut. His visit was sponsored by the ND Department of Theology. Most of the audience of 75 were older people from the South Bend commu­nity involved with the ND Center for the Study of Judaism and Christianity in Antiquity. 
Strochlitz began by recalling that when they arrived in Warsaw in July, he noticed a great number of people going to church. "We were surprised by th inability of the Communist regime to eliminate the re-
Record Reuiews 
David Bowie and Rod Stewart 

/Iff o;l"l.llllll 


Rod Stewart has become such a slick professional that every six months he can enter the studios, hire the best producer and backing musicians money can buy, and, with less than half a dozen original songs, produce a seemingly effortless piece of engaging pop. Stewart also enjoys an interesting personal life. Stories appear almost every day about his escapades in LA or his newest affair. While this makes for interesting reading, it·does not necessarily provide the impetus for creative efforts. Rod's efforts of late, especially Smiler and Atlantic Crossing, were marked by a vacuous superficiality. More concern was given to production techniques than the material itself and while the lp's were a pleasure to listen to there wasn't much substance on either of them. 
The much-publicized affair with Britt Ekland resulted in a new-found confidence for Rod. His last release, A Night On The Town, drew on personal elements for inspiration and the result was a wonderful mixture of engaging originals and soulful interpretations. There were three hit singles off the lp; one of these, "Tonight's The Night,'' was the number one single in this country for eight weeks, and the album itself went platinum. 
Foot Loose and Fancy Free, Stewart's latest release, might strike one upon first listening as a blatant imitation of last year's success, but it is really a more honest and intensely felt work. The break-up with Britt, with whom he had been living for the past few years, has caused Stewart to reevaluate his career and himself as an individual. It is this element that makes Foot Loose such a compelling and frightening work. For, if a 32-year-old millionaire, worshipped by millions, cannot find happiness, where does that leave the rest of us? 
The lp is impeccably produced and arranged, and the band which features two lead guitarists provides fine support. One would think that any work produced after such an emotional upheaval as Rod's break-up with Britt would be sloppy and self-indulgent. Stewart, however, quickly ligion of the common people," he said. While their Russian tour guide tried to explain about this, Strochlitz regretted that he felt uncomfortable around the Russian. "I was unable to feel any sumpathy for the people who cooperated with their own enemy to destroy m;." 
At the Jewish Historical Institute in Warsaw, Strochlitz ~;aw an old picture in a display case of a t·eenage girl. It was a while before he realized he knew her. She was a friend of his sister's, and she was killed bu gunfire in 1943before she reached the age of 20. Strochlitz was surprised he had remembered. 
He also remembt~red the Jewish grave­yard outside his hometown, Bengine, where his grandparents were buried. He had hoped to visit the grave of his grandfatherbut the graveyard had "disa­ppeared without a trace. It was a big soccer field and sorne playgrounds." . 
"The Germans killed 32000 Jews in Bengine. But their job was not complete until every trace of Jewish history was eliminated. But I still know that the desecration of the tomb of my grandfather, in the total destruction is a minor tragedy." 
"He used to ask 'What should I give back to the Lord for all the goodness he has given to me?" Just a touch of my grandfather's faith is what I long for." 
Visiting his holiiletown brought" back memories for Strochlitz. His house, turned into a city clinic, was locked and deserted the day he visited. It seemed much smaller than he rememben~d it. He thought of his youth; of going to school, of gojng out on a date "with high expectations," of "con­spiring with my friends to make the life of the butcher unbearable." 
Then Ire thought on the day in Decem­ber, 1939 when Gc:rman soldiers surroun­ded the Jewish town and set fire to its synagogue. The soldiers shot at anyone who tried to put out the fire. Two of his neighbores were killed trying to rescue the Torah scrolls from the burning building. 
He also thought of the day in August, 1943, when the town rabbi and others were led to the gas chanbers at Bergen-Belsen. Along tbe way the old rabbi urged everyone to sing and dance, and to face death as the highest achievement of life. 
Strochlitz and his family visited Cra­cow, the home of this wife. This was also where Strochlitz went away to school just before the war. He remembered the frequent anti-Semitic rallies on campus. During the war the NaziS closed the school and turned his dorm into a whorehouse. While his family visited Cracow, they stopped in a synagogue. The old people there were friendly, exceptionally so. They hadn't seen so many young people in their synagogue for many years. 
There were 3.5 million Jews in Poland at the outbreak of the war. There are 15,000 Jews in Poland t<>Qay. There are no rabbis left in any city in Poland. The youngest Jew in Warsaw is 67 years old. 
Strochlitz spent the last day of his trip in Aushchwitz, without his children. He wanted to revisit the site with his wife. "I didn't want this to be part of my children's lives." 
"The screams can ne longer be heard. The snrell is gone." For a moment, Strochlitz thought he heard the gate slam behind him again. He thought he saw towers and lights and policemen with machine guns and guard dogs. But he looked down to his shirt where his number -132407-used to be tatooed, and the number was gone. 
"They brought in 6000 people every night. There was really only room for half of us. Where did I get the strength to 
dispels such romantic notions with his first number, "Hot Legs," a furiously rocking piece that celebrates the joy of erotic love. 
The highlight of this side, however, is "You're In My Heart," a beautiful ballad. Here, Steward exhibits his new-found love for giving him the t~motional sustenance he needs and for taking him away from "the big-bosomed lady with the Dutch accent/ Who tried to change my point of view." Obviously Stewart would like us to think that he has kissed off Britt as effortlessly as he has composed the first side, which is derivative, but compelling, up-tempo rock. 
The second side presents a much different Stewart persona. The opening funerial notes of the organ on "You Keep Me Hangin' On," through the first three numbers, are permeated with a tone of weariness and des.pair. All the songs are either about unfaithful lovers or the transitory quality of love, suggesting that the new-found happiness celebrated on the first side could very well be illusory. 
"I Was Only .Joking" closes out the album on a tende1r and wistful note. It is Stewart nakedly baring his soul to his audience and to Britt in an effort to explain that his inability to return love in an honest and direct fashion doomed their affair from the start. Perhap:> Rod muses, the pursuit of the good life has caused him to overlook the more meaningful values. Then again "giving love is not my strongest point," he states, and so 
What I'm doing must be wrong Pouring my heart out in a song Owning up for prosperity For the whole damn world to see 
Rod asks us to believe that he is only joking, that this is only a song, but as the piece winds down Stewart drops the pretense and we are left as~ing ourselves whether Stewart has not gained fame at the expense jof his soul. A depressing thought from one who has given us so much beautiful music. 
%Observer. · 
I 

Features 
~~------------~-----~----~--~~--~~------~·---· --~·--------~-­
fhe release of Heroes, the hauntingly beautiful new lp by David Bowie, confirms him as the most consistently original artist in the rock world. No other commercially successful performer has been so willing to put his artistic integrity on the line._.*'­release of each album. 
On Low, his last effort, Bowie turned to 
the European avant-garde artists Kraft­
werk, Tangerine Dream and Brian Eno for 
inspiration and produced a work that took 
both critics and audience by surprise. One 
side consisted entirely of experimental 
electronic pieces while the other was made 
up of seemingly unrelated song fragments. 
With the exception of Lou Reed's 
auto-da-fe, Metal Machine Music, Bowie 
was the first major rock star to part so 
radically with the genre. 
Low was critically well-received but did 
not sell well. It was a courageous work, 
startling in its intensity and entrancing in 
its lyricism. Those who accused Bowie of a 
playful nihilism because of lyrics like these 
in "Breaking Glass": 
Baby 
I've been 
Breaking glass in your room again 
Listen ... 
Don't look at the carpet 
I've strewn something awful on 
See ... 
You're such a wonderful person But you've got problems I never touch 
by bob uarettoni 
watch thousands of people die every day?" 
Those who survived often had to use force of theft or betrayal. He recalled how he and a friend stood next to each other in lthe bread lines. One would try to steal to get the bread, the other would ward off the oth,er prisoners who sould try to steal it for themselves. Under these conditions, 
' Strochlitz admitted, "the best of us did not make it." 
Strochlitz read a quote from the journal of another prisoner. This prisoner descri­bed, in great detail, the way the Jews were executed in the gas chambers. As the read the quote, Strochlitz's voice became softer and fragile. He seemed on the verge of tears. 
Four hundred and fifty Jews were led into a small room. Twently five minutes later they were dead. The gas made the naked, lifeless bodies look yellow. There was so little room in a gas chamber that the dead bodies did not fall to the ground. Instead, the bodies were left standing, leaning against each other. 
"To those. that perished I can say that not only have some of us survived to testify, but after 2000 years we finally control our own destiny. We have established ourown state, we live in freedom, we have the means to defend ourselves." 
Finally, Strochlitz said, he left Auschwitz for the second time with a feeling of optimism, "a feeling I did not expect or understand." He wants to return again, and next time he will not be afraid to bring his children. 
"I want to keep up a sense of hope, and not let the memory of those who perished be forgotten. Let's be realistic, history can be cruel, and we can again become a target." 
by dom salemi 
missed the point. Bowie's song fragments were designed to "touch" people because each one was meant to illustrate an aspect of his artistic temperment. The breaking of "glass" was Bowie shattering his image in order to allow his audience to construct its own counterpart from the fragments. 
The lp is again divided into a lyric and 
instrumental side, the latter dominated by 
Brian Eno's unearthly synthesizer work 
and Bowie's instrumental performances. 
Sadly, Fripp, who is one of the best guitar 
players in the world, is allowed to 
contribute very little. 
The bulk of the instrumental side consists ofthreesequential pieces. "Sense of Doubt," the first of these, beautifully juxtaposes musical textures to create a sense of expectation in the listener. A moody piano wash is contrasted with the tremulous, high-pitched notes of Eno's synthesizer which grows in confidence only to be consistently interrupted by the return of the piano figure. 
"Moss Garden" is an exotic piece that features Bowie on the koto, a primitive Japane.se stringed instrument. Bowie's use ofthe harsh, highly-pitched instrument is disconcerting, but the swirling melodic backdrop slowly and almost inexorably assimilates the discordant sounds, soften­ing and eventually quieting them. 
"Heroes," the title cut''and tile· Most 
moving song on the album finds an 
unabashedly romantic Bowie seeking es­
cape from the vacuity of existence in erotic 
love. Th h h" ill.
oug not mgw 

Drive them away 
We can· beat them 
Just for one day 
We can be Heroes 
Just for one day Life is painful but through the act of love one can, for a moment at least, shut it out. In asking the woman to give herself to him Bowie is at once asking for .a release from the exigencies of life, and offering her the hope of a simpler and more honest mode of existence. His hope for release is only a vain dream, of course, and as such can last for "only one day." As Bowie comes· to the full realization of this fact, his pleas become more insistent, then more passion­ate, until in his fear he begins to cry out ia · an effort to make both the girl and himself believe in the dream he has constructed. All the while the music is slowly building to a crescendo until Bowie is completely drowned out. It. is an incredible, strong performance and one that like the album is not likely to be forgotten once heard. 
6 the ObServer Wednesday, December7, 1977 
Concerning statements 
St. E_d's president disagrees with Roeme 

byToayPaee Features Editor 

St. Edward's Hall President 
Mike Roohan has expressed his 
disagreement with statements 
made by Dean of Students James 
Roemer concerning incidents which 
occurred both during and after a St. 
Ed's-Badin party held at the 
Knights of Columbus Hall last 
Friday evening. 

Because of this and other parties 
like it, and because the Knights of 
Columbus only recently became 
aware that alcohol may not be 
served in their hall, the Notre 
Dame Council has decided to 
eliminate use of the hall by 
outsiders. 

Roohan disagrees wih Roemer as to the number of students who became sick during the course of the evening. Roemer maintains, as 
Liturgical music workshop set 
Folksinger Joe Wise will present a 
one-day workshop on liturgical 
music this Saturday at Notre Dame. 
Sessions beginning at 9:30 a.m. 
and I p.m. will be sponsored by the 
Office of Campus Ministry and are 
open to the public. 

Registration for the sessions is 
required and must be completed by 
Thursday. A $1 fee will be 
charged. 

Visiting prof to present talk 
A faculty member of the Univer­sity of Ljubljana in Yugoslavia will present a talk on "Ownership and Organization of Business Enter­prises in Yugoslavia (Workers' Self-Management) tomorrow at 
12:15 p.m. in the Hayes-Healy Center. 
The lecturer, Dr. Ivan Ribnikar, is an economics professor currently serving as a visiting professor in the School of Business at Indiana University. His Notre Dame ap­pearance is sponsored by the College of Business Administration and is open to the public. 
Devine to speak in Dillon 
Notre Dame Football Coach, Dan Devine wiii speak this Friday at 8 p.m. in the Dillon Hall Chapel. The event is sponsored by the Dillon Hall Academic Commission. 
Last day for Art sale 

Today is the last day of the Notre Dame Art Department's Pre­Christmas sale. Art objects of all sizes, descriptions and prices will be on sale at the Art Galley in O'Shaughnessy from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. 
he said in yesterday's Observer, from the K of C but both Lauretti that a number of stu~ents gotsick, and Roohan indicated that these both at the K of C and in St. Ed's things may have taken before the 
after the party was over. Roo han party. Lauretti refused to describe said, "Only one person got sick and the items specifically. that was in the bathroom at the K The St. Ed's residents also 
of C Hall. That mess was cleaned disputed Roemer's accusation that up within 12 hours after the party fireworks were used by those who was over.'' attended the party. Tim Rippen­
Roohan also argued that ger, a second-floor resident assist­Roemer's statement, "Quite a bit ant in St. Ed's, noted, "The of damage was done,'' was incor­firecrackers were lit jokingly by rect. Roohan qualified this state­some resident to give another RA a ment with the testimony of Steve hard time." 
· Lauretti, a St. Ed's resident and "We (the hall staff) consider the 
warden of the K or C. "The guys party a success for the most part," from St. Ed's and the girls from Rippenger added. "Few individu­Badin did an excellent job of als did most of the damage. cleaning up. The only damage Almost everybody had a good 
done was a broken light fixutre and time." the individual who broke it has As for who should pay for the agreed to pay for it,'' Lauretti said. damage done because of the party, 
There were also items missing • Roemer said, "I think the St. Ed's people whould take care of the damage to the hall. If the individual who did it doesn't step forward, those who organized the party should organize payment for the damage." 
Roemer also clarified his role in the closing of the K of C hall to non-member use. He said,"l had absolutely nothing to do with it. I had sent them a letter in Bat November concerning the use o their facility for parties wher alcohol was served. They did no receive that letter. However, the have since been informed of tha letter and they have had damag done to their building. They too responsible action to correct ih~ matter." 
(;OF THE IAA.MAO.I.ATE CQNCBJT10N D 
A solerm UniveBity Uturgy will be celebrated at s:00 p.m at Saaed Heart Churdl Thursday, Decermer 8th.
~ Aindpal Celebrant: Rev. Richard P. Decermer 8th is a holy day of obligation. 
lang, CSC. 
WHEN DO JOURNALISM MAJORS SAY BUDWEISER®! 


general record sto~ 
AWRIGHT! I'VE roT 1WO BY-LINES AND A FRDNT PA.GE FEAWRE IN TODA'15 PAPER! I TiiiNI< I'LL CALL.SUZY, 
ATTRACTJV£ BRUNETTE, 21, AND SHARE A PITCHER OF COW BUD ,f(OVER AT MAIUY'S, flJPULAR CAMPU.S HANGOUT;4!!!. AND 1\1\AIN. 
~*************************************************** 
a I FOUND IT! E 
* * 
~ at the £ ! NOTRE DAME APARTMENTS 3 
* *
* * 
.~ CLOSE TO CAMPUS! ! 
~ APARTMENTS STILL AVAILABLE ! a IMMEDIATE OCCUPANCY : ~ 2 bedrooms -completely furnished E ! complete kitchen and dining room : : * $280 -300/.~onth up to 4 students !* : · call Cand_y at 233-6363 or 234-6647' : 
"*************'*****'*******••••••.......**·************"' 


. ~ ---~-~~­
l. 
. ., 

........ 'lo ·~ .. ••• ·"'· },-. 
.

Wednesday, December 7, 1977 
the observer

Provost: acadamecian 
Faculty Senate approves provost report 
[continued from page 2] exceptions for the higher ranks, the worse it becomes for the lower ranks." 
Prof. Katharina Blackstead, chairman of the faculty ·affairs 
Tokyo program holds meeting 
Students interested in the Tokyo sophomore year abroad program are invited to an informal meeting tonight at 7 in the basement of LaFortune Student Center. Former participants in the program, as well as faculty involved with Japanese Studies, will be present to offer advice and to answer questions. 
The Tokyo Program is the only foreign study program at Notre Dame in which the foreigh lan­guage may be started abroad, although one semester of Japanese is usually recommended to facili­tate adjustment to life in Tokyo. 
This Notre Dame Japan Study Program operates in conjunction with Sophia University in Tokyo. Courses include Japanese Lan­guage, History, Sociology, Theolo­gy, Philosophy, Literature, and a choice of numerous electives. Courses are taught in English and count directly as Notre Dame credit. Financial aid is maintained while abroad. 
NOTICES 
AN UNDISCOVERED WRI­
Let the book publishing group ••l,·oM•nn semester) have a peek at your Fiction or nonfiction with popular 
E. Christman, G142, Library. 
CLUB: Team picture for the 
to be taken at Corby's Friday, 
9, 3pm. Be there by 1pm so we can 
look our best. 
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND Student loans, $20-150. One day wait, one percent interest charged. Due in 30 days. LaFortune basement, M-F, 11:15­
12:15. Last day for loans this semester· Dec. 14. 
volunteers and interested dancers: aChristmas dance you won't want miss tonight, from 7:30 pm till 10:00 pm in the Logan cafeteria. Come and join us in the fun just one block south of the football stadium! Any questions call Jeanne Conboy 284-4391 or Art Koebel, 
287-7509. ' 
EXPERIENCED TYPIST: For more info· rmation call 272-2819. 
NEED QUALITY TYPING? Executary Inc. Professional Typing Service IBM Correcting Selectrics. 85 cents per page minimum. Call 232·0898 when you want the best. 
Neat, Accurate typing of term papers. manuscripts. Call 287-5162. 
LOST AND FOUND 
FOUND: Set of keys. Call 8227 to identify. 
FOUND: One umbrella. Call Pete, 288-2688. 
LOST: or taken, from North Dining Hall Thursday, Dec. 1, a 125 Calculus Book and red 4 section notebook. Desperately need notebook for finals. No questions asked. Call Jim, 1466 or stop by 252 Cav. 
FOUND: Student basketball ticket. Identify at 8227. 
: One maroon and white scarf In i i of N D apartments. Sue, 289-8793 
of wire rim glasses with nhn'tnnr.~v lenses in the area of the bars night. Call Scott 234-Q722. 
class formal, a pinkie Please call 4-4786. 
. One silver pendant with turquoise and chain. Lost between LeMans cafeteria. Great sentimental value. found call 4-4563. 

Pre··med report 
. cost to visit a school once an [continued from page 4] , interview is granted. According to worried." 1 members of medical school admis­
' 'I would borrow money for sions boards, acceptance cannot be medical school," said senior Jeff granted without interviewing the Cole. "It could total some $25,000 student. Last year, one student but I'll do it. Financing medic~! who graduated las~ spring sp_ent school will be completely my over $1,000 travelhng to medtcal responsibility." · schools for interviews. S~nior 
Said one student, "I know the Debbie Darnley's case was differ­cost probably won't go up to $30,00 ent, though. "~ app!ied to ?nl~ or $40,000, but I would b(: willing to one school, the Untverstty of M!ch!­go up to that." gan Medical School-I'm a Mtcht-
One student had a c:hoice be-gan resident so I saved a lot of tween a three-year state medical money." school and a four-year private For one student, application fees school. Because of the expenses of amounted to $330 for s~hools the private school, she said she will around the country. Acc~rdtng to probably attend the state medical Fr. Joseph L. Walter, chatrman of school. the science preprofessional depart-
But Pacropis said, "The cost will ment, most students apply to at not affect me. The cost really· least seven to ten schools. The 
doesn't matter. I'm just concerned about getting in." Another cost inherent in the race to get into medical school is the 
LOST: Two silver rings. One is a wedding ring with the inscription To RMF from JEP, 9-20. The other has two silver balls on it. Will sell soul for their return. Please contact Theresa at 1880­226 Lewis. 
LOST: Texas Instruments Tl 50A calcula­tor in rm 118 'nieuwland wed. 11-16-77. Please return to Tom ...phone 6713. 
LOST: Wire rim glasses in vicinity Dillon Fri. night. If found please call 288-2456. 
LOST: Dark green ski parka taken at the Stepan center during the M.W. Blues Festival. If seen or feeling guilty call John, 6764. Please.... lt is cold outside. 
FOUND: Pr. glasses near Fr. Sorin statue. Silver metal frames, tinted lenses, Baush and Lomb case. Call1733. 
-----------------·----­
LOST: Notre Dame notebook, Law ruled, management, name on cover...Greg Me­rideth ...Call 8435. Reward. 
LOST: Star Saphire ring after tt·ball game Monday night between the ACC and Flanner. If found please call Karen, 6881 . Reward. 
FOUND: Pair of glasses in !Jreen case outside the ACC Tuesday afternoon. To claim, call1389. 
WANTED 

Need up to 3 people to subiE!t ND Ave. Apt for second semester. Call Beth, 288-1560. 
Needed: Riders heading west (NM) after 12-17. Call 272-1989 NOW. ' 
Members of the ND-SMC community to drive new car to SanFransisco or Seattle and drive car back after break. Call 232-D453. 
ND Student would like to sublet Campos view Apt. ....Call 277-2552. 
HELP! ND guy must leam ballroom dance. John, 1380. 
Female student looking for apt. or house near campus to share for second semest­ter. Call Gail, 284-4523. 
Julio's has opening for delivery personnel either Sat. or Sun. or both days available. From 5pm to 2am. Must have own car. Guaranteed $3 per hour plus tips. Call 233-2354. 
Need ride to Des Moines area after 10 pm Dec. 20. Call Nancy, 4375. 
Two females want housemate. Available anytime now through next semester. Own room; good neighborhoo:t 289-3453 
NEED RIDE TO TEXAS: Dallas, Houston SanAntonio or Austion. Share driving, expenses. 2942. 

LaudEtrdale area 376. 
average application fee is $40, he said. Tomorrow: Medical[ schools, inter­views, and admissions polic1y• 
Need riders to Cotton Bowl from Pitts­burgh area. Call Kirby, 8601. 
Big money paid for two student basket­ball tickets. 277-3604. 
WANTED: Two riders to and from L.A. LV. 12-18. Call Abe, 287-4828.
?------------·----------­
FOR RENT 

Apart. for rent... .2 or 3persons ....$165 or $180 ,per month with utilities. Two miles from campus, senior or grad students. 289-5215 after 11 pm. 
Two rooms in student house for second semester. Close to campus. Share rent and utilities. Call 288-0088. 
Nice three and four bedroom furnished house for rent. Walking distance to campus. Call 233-2613 after 5:00. 
One or two furnished bedrooms for rent in country house about 6miles from Notre Dame. 277-3604. 
FOR SALE 

One pair Presage speakers. 2way system with tune port. Great sound. Asking $120 for pair. 8774. 
For sale -1971 Capri, 89,000 miles. Runs well ... must sacrifice $450. Call 4438 . 
WHY PAY MORE??1' Flanner Records has all $6.98 list lp's for only $4.50. All $7.98 list lp's only $5.29. Over 400 albums in stock. Phone orders accepted. Flaner Records, 322 Flanner, phone 2741. 
Hours: M-Th, 4-5, 6:30-8:00. Sunday, 2-3:30. 
Owner must sell mint condition Gulbran· sen Organ. Church or home use. Phone:234-9759. 
A pair of skis-poles-boots, size 9-10. Like new. $70. Phone 1127. 
Men's pair of figure skates, size 13. Like new....$10. Phone 1127. 
PERSONALS 

MIKE­
THANKS FOR MONDAY NIGHT. A ROSE BY ANY OTHER NAME...... 
8 
Happy Birthday Terri "Pass Around" (former Blaha) Clune.... Hello Cy From Jim 'see you at Christmas 
Anyone Interested In meeting regularly for morning prayer, please contact the Campus Ministry Office at 6536 or 8832. Will form group this semester to begin ln January. 
To my brother, Boy That was fun. Thanks for everything. 
Old lady in Black 
the Provost Search Committee, the The report also maintains tha University President Fr. Tehodore ·the provost be "free to minimiz• Hesburgh, and the Board of Trus­his role outside the University a: tees, cites a "distinguished career spokesman and pt'oxy for tht of teaching, research and scholarly President." publication," and "proven skills as administrator and manager'' as 
SKIING?

prerequisites for the position. 
t-'-----------·-·-.----------------~ 
CORBYS STROHS 
NIGHT 
3 dralls for $1.00 2 cans for $1.00 
\ 

8:00 PM TO 2:30 AM WEDNESDAY 
prizes T-.shitfs postets mug special!! 


buy a Corby mug & get one free Sttohs tl up 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
Female student wanted to share apart­ment with teacher. Excellent neighbor­hood, near Scottsdale Mall. 289-4514. 
Is it true that Kate bates? 
Need ride to Cleveland on Dec. 14, 15 or 
16. Call Kathy, 1264. 
Sundane & Max & Mike, Thanks for the wild party Saturday night! Maribeth 
Mark Ferri ng ­A very late happy birthday! B 
Mark Huard-Yahoo! You are in High School now. 
Mary Phyllis ­Many thanks for afantastic weekend. It will be difficult to top, but we'll I try. Jack 
AnneS. Thanks so much for the use of your car. 
It really  made  the  evening  so  much  
easier.  
Mark, Eliza, Maureen, Kevin  

Dear AnneS. 
Thanks for the use of your car. Thre are only a few minor alterations in its body (i.e.) smashed bumper. Thanks again for helping to create a beautiful evening. 
Mark 
To the best Eskimo kisser ever, ....Shhh t'aime... beaucoup?! 
From Tease (but not really) 
Lammert starts trend! For more info, call 3526. 
Valda· 
Happy 19th and three weeks! (You know me, slow as X-mas --have amerry one too!) 
DDC 
ATTENTION: 
The G.P. Merideth fan club Is now forming. All friends, fans, and girls who admire his body are invited to join! Just think , your cahnce to pay homage to one of ND's best hockey players, and a really nice guy! First meeting will be tomorow at 8 pm in the lobby of Pangborn. The focus of our adulation will be there along with other interesting guests. Be there!!! 
Micheal Roger Losego, Dear, Happy 19th and may 117 see you again next semester. Diane PS: Stay mellow!! 
Derefict, 
You and Pearl Harbor bombed on same day? Could only mean one thing! Yes It does! HAPPY BIRTHDAY!!I! Be c;areful with those shots, they could be fatal. Have agood one and don't loose It! 
MtheJ PS: M. Roger Panda (now fully recover· ed) says "DITTO!" 
Katherine Potter, April 23, 1948-Dec 4, 1976. Gone but not forgotten. Sadly missed -Fondly remembered. Singer and SeckInger.......PS -The Bobsey To S. Pork Romano... 
Hi from the 147 and 2-1 plus 1 club, THE SIX PACK, Bet-Ann, Els Baby, Hrowanda, Bunky, Madge, Patruska Rodinski, Rhoda Clmin, Chuck, Fth and Bellen, Patrick, Fish, Mary Beth Rupin­ski, Elaine Gropplekopf and especially, Wilemeana Hertahortz. Remember the Machineahahahah a day, keep the Irish guts away. Also, hi to Margaret from the Groover 
O'Kay Betty O'chuck, my turn now: Clovers are green Maureen is a bean, And you are the weirdest That I've ever seen Snoopy is cool and Scnazz is a fool A Marguerita a day, sounds like a good rule. PS: Sue, don'tforgettocheckthe "Load" on,the 4th. O.X. Margie 
To Mac 
Maybe if you send more letters I wouldn't have to read other people's mail. Snooter broke his nose (with some assistance) but boner is fine and sends his love. 
O.X.MO 
Thanks to the intense gang (The Shrin­ers), Happy Birthady Bill and friends, The Flanner Boys, Stubs and Burhead, The thumper crowd, Brian, Dorothy Pigman, 2-T wing and friends, anr everyone else who came to the '' Poseido Adventure Revisted" party Saturday ~ the Budgeteer. 
Signed, THE SIX PACK and Eilleen. 
Bruce and Bruce, 
"Christmas day it comes so near And LO! the feelings in our bones Of all the things we hold so dear: Of cabbages and featherstones. ' Thanks for al, my two dear friends...have: agood one. 
Bye-Bye, Motherj
--------------·----------1
TO: Stumble Inn and A:;sociates, plus alii female counterparts. Thanks for every-· thing. I love you madly. Destroy a few; brain cells this X-Mas. You guessed it, · 
Francinol PS: I'm going for the one!
---------------------1
Steve "So What If She's a Nun?" Horak:' 
The life expectancy of a porter these 1 days is only 21 years. So watch out for: the cowcatchers at the U .I. Love and' Kisses, 
An Innocent Bystander 
PS: Have a wet one. 
Snuggley:* 
You are the sunlight of my life, the music of my soul, the candle of myi dreams. Everyday is Christmas with you. 1 
Merry Christmas 12. I love you, Upper Class Twit PS: One year and counting. 
So the pig-poker of Whitney Point tinksl we forgot him. So here'.s to you, Hogle ­Happy Birthday to the Roman Polanski of~ Carroll Hall! 
The Carroll Gang' 
Will teach saxaphone lessons -great experience -For more Information, please contact I 1064 or 1196. 

committee, stated that while her committee had not decided wheth­er it would make another retire­ment plan proposal, they would continue work on a faculty rights and compensation proposal and a comprehensive benefits package. 
In other business, the Senate unanimously approved a three­page evaluation of the role of the provost prepared by the Senate's standing Committee on Admini~­tration, which de:fines academtc leadership as the primary concern of the provost. 
The report, which will be sent to 


t 
VVednesday,~ernber7,1977
Swimmers capture first in Invitational meet 
by Leigh Tunakan either first or secoild in each event. 
and The depth, as evidenced by this 
JudyBymes performance, adds to the strength 
Sports Writers of the ream. -Coach Dennis Stark 
commented, "I'm well-pleased 
The Irish swim team, captained with this meet. We've got more by senior Doc Severyn, displayed depth this year, and it should help solid performances this weekend as us." they captured first in the 14th On Saturday afternoon, the Irish Annual Invitational Relay Meet, encountered the Western Ontario and their premier dual meet of the tankers. The results of the meet 
season. proved very satisfactory for the 
In the pre-season invitational on Irish, as they chalked up their first Friday, Notre Dame secured 97 win ofthe season, 63-50. The Irish points, followed closely by Bradley victory was highlighted by the 
University with 84 points, who performance of diver Fritz Shadley, 
succeeded in breaking four estab­as he established a new meet 
lished meet records. Wayne State record of 258.6 points in the 
University, whose performance in one-meter diving competition. The 
the diving relay also resulted in a previous record of 249.05 points 
new meet record, captured third in was set by Western Ontario in 
the comptition with a total of 61 1972. 
points. The scores for the remain­In the opening moments of the 
ing teams were 48 points, 41 meet, the relay team of Mark 
points, and 27 points for Wabash Chiles, Andy Petro, Tom Hartye, 
College. Valparaiso University, and and Rod McLaughlin captured first 
Tri-State University, respectively. in the 400-yard medly with a time 
Notre Dame's success was ac­of 3:54.4. Notre Dame also 
cented by the fact that they placed finished second in the event. 
Monte Towle:::::=====:=============:=======::=================:===::=::::::=======::::=======:::=:=:=:=====:::=======:=============== 
A Vermont Winter 
================================================:===:::::::===:=========:===:==========:Home 
Sweet Home 
In my four years at Notre Dame, I have never seen as wintry a day 
during the fall semester as the ~ne that we ex_Perien~ed in South Bend 
yesterday. The cold wind, blowmg s~ow and. ICY ~ralls that graced our 
lovely campus signified the second commg ofwmter m the last ~o weeks. 
As a native of Vermont, I felt right at home yesterday, but I wtsh I were 
really home. The ski slopes ~nd skating rinks of northern Vermont beckon 
me. A large part of growing up in Vermont for many people includes learning how to ski and skate. There is ample opportunity to do both. The Green Mountain State abounds with mountains, ponds and rivers that, whenever covered with snow or frozen over, provide a readily available source of athletic endeavor. Besides, the winter season in Vermont exceeds normal margins in running from the middle of November to the middle of April. That leaves time for about three rounds of golf and a couple of baseball games during the summer. I began skiing at the age of nine on a 400 foot hill with a rope-tow located about a half mile out of town. The whole town was out there on weekends, all 200 residents in full force slipping and sliding from mogul to mogul, from snowdrift to snowdrift. Nighttimes were reserved for skating on the rink under the lights by the river. More often than not, the temperature dipped below zero, but that didn't matter. I knew that a burning pile of logs awaited me in my fireplace back at the house. Vermont prides itself in sending many skiers to the United States national ski team and on to the Winter Olympics. Barbara Cochran won a slalom gold medal at Sapporo in 1972. Bill Koch captured a cross country silver medal in the 1976 games in Innsbruck. These two are the epitome of skiracing talent that comes out of the East whether it be Vermont, New York, New Hampshire or Massachusetts. I raced against people like the Cochrans in the United States Eastern Amateur Ski Association during the early 1970's and for those of you who have done likewise, we must agree that the sport of skiracing is a world all to its own. Round the year trainlng ... running ... wind sprints ... weightlifting ...dry slalom runs... jogging up and running down mountains ... calisthenics. And that's only for summer training. A skifr. let alone a ski racer, has no choice but to be in strong physical conditiOn. Either that or collapse a third of the way down a two-mile long giant slalom course. Even the best of skiraccrs. however, must also be able to weather the climate. It's not so bad when the thermometer hits -29F or when late night snows have dropped 13 inches of powder over a treacherous, icy course. But when the wind starts blowing the snow and creating little icicles under your nose and eyelids, you know the importance of keeping warm. That is no joke. Standing in line for thirty minutes behind the starting gate awaiting your turn in this artie world is a case of survival, on the part of ea<:h racer. Surviving these cold races qualifies one as a subject of Reader's Digest's Drama in Real Life. Have you ever had to remove goggles FROZEN to your face? It's like removing a bandaid from the most sensitive part of your body! Actually, the competitiveness of a ski race in Vermont begins at 5 o'clock in the morning. That's when the racer has to drag himself lhcrselO out of bed for a quick breakfast of oatmeal, toast, orange juice and tea. And then comes the fun part of driving through drifting snow, early morning .darkness and icy roads in a Volkswagon with three other people eryroute to Killington or Stowe at least two hours away. Forget the roads, those narrow, twisting, hilly 'sidewalks', because if rou don't, a padded cell awaits your doom. 
All things considered though, skiracing in Vermont is one of the most thrilling, yet challenging sports experiences. When you step into that starting gate and your stomach lodges in your throat, you can bet that the fun is jus beginning. 
With this column, I bring my semester's toiiY\o an end with several awards of recognition. My sportsmen of the year awards go out to Albert King and Bill Veeck. King, the freshman basketball star at Maryland, most accurately epitomizes the great, blue-chip athlete that sells his r31ents to a school that promises him a good education. At least he had a phenomenal year for Fort Hamilton High School in New York while being the most heavily recruited high school athlete in the world. 
As for Owner Bill Veeck of the Chicago White Sox, he brought winning baseball back to White Sox Park. Even more admirably, Veeck stuck to his guns in not giving in to the hilarious salary demands of Richie Zisk and Oscar Gamble; two stiffs that some teams are foolish enough to consider worthy of multi-year contracts. Finally, a special commendation to Bill Walton. Some sportswriters had him written off too quickly a couple of years ago. 
Good luck on exams, have a good Christmas and New Year's. I'll see you in Dallas, Row 5-Section 27. · 
Mike Noonan and Ron Alitto's performance in the 1000-yard free­style widened Notre Dame's lead as they placed first and second with the times of 10:43.5 and 11:00.2, respectively. 
Senior Ed Fitzsimmons again displayed his strength with a winning time of :23.0 in the SO-yard freestyle event. Michael Hussey's time of :23.7 secured second for Notre Dame. 
Rookie swimmer John Komora notched another winning score for the Irish with a time of2:07.0 in the 200-yard individual medley. John 



The Irish swimmers opened their season with a fine showing in the 14th Annual Invitational Relay Meet. 
Nolan's and Mike Lee's efforts in 
the 200-yard butterfly and the 
200-yard backstroke, respectively, 
secured second for Notre Dame. 
Their times were 2:18.7 and 2:12.7, 
respectively. 

The results of the 500-yard freestyle found· Notre Dame again capturing second with Jim Shippee's time of 5:24.6. 
Exhibiting the depth of the Irish team, Rick Kinney with a time of 
2:30.4 and Pat Schneider with a time of 2:31.3 captured the top two positions in the 200-yard breast­stroke. 
This meet allowed more Irish swimmers a chance to perform in the events. "I'm well-pleased wJh this kind of meet, as the ent~re team had a -chance to swim," explained Stark. He added, ''I w.as pleased with the performances of many." 
Last night, the Irish traveled to Kalamazoo to meet the Broncos .of Western Michigan. They will ne:xt host Cleveland State Friday at 4 
p.m. in the Rockne Memorial Pool. Admission is free. 
*Observer 
Sports 

Kentucky, NC, ND hold AP lead 
[AP] -The University of Kentucky 
basketball team took last week off 
and the hiatus didn't hurt one bit. 
The Wildcats strengthened their 
hold on first place in the Associated 
Press College Basketball Poll. 
Joe Hall's team, with a 1-0 
record, received 23 of the 43 
first-place votes and 808 points in 
the balloting by the AP panel of 
sports writers and broadcasters. 
That gave the Wildcats a 56 point 
margin over runner-up North Caro­
lina, which trailed them by a slim 
988-969 margin a week ago, when 
the 'Cats got 29 first-place votes. 
The Tar Heels, who got 20 first-place votes a week ago, re­ceived 16 this time and wound up with 752 points. They spent last week beating Oregon State 90-64, Duke 79-66 and North Carolina State 87-82 to raise their record to 4-0. 
Notre Dame, 3-0, which recorded victories over Baylor and Val­paraiso, remained in third, again receiving a pair of first-place votes and amassing 651 points. Mar­quette, 2-0 by virtue of last week's triumphs over St. Thomas, Minn., and Western Michigan, held fourth with one first-place vote the War­riors got two in last week's poll and 508 points. 
UCLA, Arkansas and Cincinnati each moved up one position as San Francisco tumbled from fifth to eighth. The Bruins, 4-0, who beat Colorado and Santa Clara, got the remaining first-place vote and 439 points for fifth place. 
The Razorbacks, 4-0, beat Mis­sissippi Stl\,!e once and Hawaii twice and grabbed sixth with 395 points. Cincinnati, 3-0 after nosing out North Carolina A&T and whip­ping Biscayne, is seventh with 273 points. 
San Francisco's Don's started the week by beating Tennessee, but closed it with a loss to Arizona State, leaving them at 2-1 and cropping them to eighth with 209 ·1oints. · 
.~ichigan, 13th a week ago, routt>d Eastern Michigan and Fordham 
J 

go 3-0 and leap to ninth with 20· , three points ahead of lOth pl.1ce Nevada Las Vegas, also 3-0 fol­lowing victories over Peppardine and Bradley. 
Indiana State, which wasn't even in the poll a week ago, roared into the r'ankings at the head of the Second Ten. A romp over Purdue. 11th a week ago, helped the 3-0 Sycamores take over that spot and drop the Boilermakers out of th( Top Twenty. 
Maryland moved up two places 17, Syracuse fell six rungs to 18th to 12th, St. John's jumped three to and Kansas and Providence enter­13th, Utah lapped from 20th to ed the ratings at No. 19 and No. 20 14th, Holy Cross rose two to 15th, respectively, displacing Alabama ­Louisville fell from ni,nth to 16th, 15th a week ago and Wake Fore!.t­
· Detroit edged from No. 19 to No. 18th last week. 
Women top Valpo 
by Laurie Reising Women's Sports Editor 
The women's basketball team showed what varsity squads are made of Saturday, defeating a much taller Valparaisoteam48-41. 
Valparaiso was the first to score on a successful free throw attempt but the Irish answered back quickly when Molly Cashman sunk one from the line. Notre Dame proceeded to surge ahead 5-l thanks to the efforts of the Lally sisters. Junior Carol and freshman Maggie set the offense in moti-on on a pair ofquick drives up the key for easy lay ups. 
The rest of the first half was tight with the lead bantered back and forth constantly. A sticky Irish defense kept the score close but also drew many fouls in the process. Coach Petro was not 
,overly concerned with the abun­dance of whistles on her squad explaining, "As I said at the start of the season, people must realize this is not a seasoned team, for many this is their first exposure to varsity level action and I'm sure as time goes on the fouling will decrease." Time ran out on the clock with the score knotted at 16 apiece. 
Pat Meyer, a sophomore science 
major, put the Irish ahead in the 
opening moments of the second 
half on a 15 foot jump shot. But 
Valpo erased that slim margin 
cashing in on a short shot from the 
side. The Irish offense then went 
into a slump allowing their op­
ponents to muster the biggest lead 
of the game 29-26. The situation 
was worsened when with 14:50 left 
in the half Carol Lally was sidelined 
upon receiving her fourth foul and 
Molly Cashman had to leave with 
three. 

The "depth" whic'.. Petro had 
predicted "would surprise· a-few" 
appeared when sophomore Michele 
O'Haren came off the bench and 
scored two quick field goals to 
bring her team right back into the 
thick of it, 30-33. 

It was then a tooth and nail battle up until the final minutes of the game at which time Kelly Hicks returned to action and started a hot streak of her own cashing in on a jump shot and a three-point-play. This put the Irish ahead 46-39. Carol Lally also returned to ice the cake with another bucket, to give the Notre Dame women their firsl varsity victory 48-41. 
-Sports 
NEWS 
Cotton Bowl 

There were 1500 student tickets allocated for the 1978 Cotton Bowl. As of 4 p.m. yesterday, all of the tickets were purchased. Ticke1 Manager Mike Busick then re­moved 700 tickets from those set aside for alumni sa:es. Twc hundred of these must go to the Notre Dame band. Thus, there arc only 500 tickets still available for students. 
Since slightly over 12,000 tickets were given to Notre Dame, the alumni will only be receiving approximately lO,OOO. Thus, they too will have demand problems. As a result, the alumni ticket applica­tions will be subjected to a lottery. Ticket office hours are from 9 
a.m. to 5 p.m. including the noon hour. Once the remaining 500 tickets are sold, there will be no more tickets available to students. 
Bengal Bouts 

Anyone interested in participating! in the 1978 Bengal Bouts mustl attend a short meeting tonight in 'the ACCAuditorium at 7:30 p.m. 
B-ball on WSND ~ 
WSND will broadcast tonight's Notre Dame-Northwestern basket­ball game on 640AM. Ted Robin­son and Frank LaGrotta will handle 
the  play-by-play  chores  with  air  
time at 8:55p.m.  
..J  








