
iI New LaFortune renovation plan submitted 
all work must be done with theof the matter will resume after commitment towards complete and spring break. 
Student Body President Mike Gassman submitted a proposal for renovation of the LaFortune final renovation of the facility.
The Student Government plan 
Student Center to the administration yesterday. [photo by Debbie Krilich] 
presents a floor-by-floor outline of According to Gassman and renovations. In the basement, A single, central kitchen would A complete grocery/deli would Paczesny said these kinds of Casey, the sruvey revealed that an bowling lanes, a restaurant and serve the fast food, restaurant/ also provide the services of a "interesting ideas to help develop overwhelming majority of students coffeehouse and a game room are coffeehouse and banquet facilities. change machine, stamp machine, the center" are what the admini­felt presen'.: facilities are inade­projected additions. Present equipment from the Hud-tobacco shop and newspaper stand. stration is seeking. He added that quate for student use and that only Plans for the first floor include: a die, as well as the pizza ovens from According to the plan, it would sell they are open to student input and 26 percent cf the student body use television room; a central kitchen; a Holy Cross Hall would be em-prepared sanwiches and have would listen to any other sugges­LaFortune daily or weekly. The fast food service with seating area; ployed, in addition to new equip· micorwave ovens available for tions as well. 
remaining 74 percent use the a deli/7-11 grocery; bank facilities, ment. heating them. He noted that some of the center on a monthly basis at most. 
including check cashing; a flower The restaurant/coffeehouse The proposal also c:~11-f::r !' renovations could be accomplished and a plant shop; and a lobby area· would offer a Barnaby's-type of television room adjacnt to the fairly quickly, but others, like the 
The survey was also used as an indication t)f services and facilitieswith periodical literature available. :w~nu and liqu0r fo: students over lobby. with either several normal bowling alley, would require a students would like to have inclu­The second floor of LaFortune 21. To prevent under-age students size televisions or a single projec-greater outlay of time and funds or ded in a student center.
would tentatively house a banquet from drinking, th.e restaurant tion system. conn~cted to a cable might entail the relocation of room, study rooms and a redecor­would be divided so that only those network. prest""nt services or offices. 
Gassman said that no target date ated ballroom. with proper identification would be Paczesny called the proposal Pa::zescny stated he would pass has been set for completion of the Stduent Government is also pro­allowed in the section where liquor "very practical and not all out of the proposal among other Univer­renovations. but he stressed thatposing that the student center is served. Gassman said he be-line." He praised it as a practical sity officers and find out their he is seeking a solid commitmentremain open 24 hours a day and lieves this kind of facility will be approach to solving the problem opinions before meeting with Gass­and wants to see the program set inthat a public address and music acceptable to the administration and meeting the needs of students man and Casey -again to discuss the mot;on.
system be instailed. under these conditions. by mak mg use of existing facilities. proposal further. 

Terrorists take hostages, hold three buildings, kill newsman in D. C. 
WASHINGTON [AP] · In bizarre sequence, terrorist gunmen in­vaded the headquarters of a Jewish organizaion, a Moslem religious center and Washington's City Hall yesterday, killing a radio newsman and seizing scores of hostages. 
A handful of black men, 9 to 11 by police reckoning, captured their hostages during the day and still held at least 80 people at three different locations early Thursday. 
Police ringed the three build­ings, and sealed off the areas involved, including Pennysylvania Avenue, close to the White House, and Massachusetts Avenue, in the heart of embassy Row. 
The gunmen, armed with rifles, shotguns, some automatic weapons and a machete, were thought to be members of the predominantly black Hanafi Moslem sect, victim­ized by a mass murder in Washing­ton four years ago. 
Their apparent ringleader said he wanted revenge for ~he 1973 killing of the seven Hanafi Mos­lems, six of them his children. 
He demanded that the people he holds responsible · leaders · be delivered to the terrorists holding nearly 60 hostages at the head­quarters of B'nai B'rith, the Jewish service organization. 
Khalifa Hamaas, Abdul Khaalis also demanded, and got, cancel­lation of American showings of the film "Mohammad, Messenger of God," when he said he was an affront to his religion. His were the only public demands. 
The slain newsman was Maurice Williams, 24, a black reporter for WHUR, a station affiliated with Howard University. Williams was killed by a gun shot during the takeover at the District of Columbia Building, two blocks from the White House. 
There was shooting at the B'nai B'rith building too, where four to six men, led by Abdul Khaalis, terrorized office workers in a late morning invasion. 
Eight people ther were reported wounded · shot, stabbed or beaten. 
Four more were injured at the District Building, one of them City Councilman · Marion Barry, who was shot in the chest. 
There were no known casualties at the third site, the Islamic Center, a mosque on Washington's Em· 
bassy Row. Federal agents said three gunmen there were armed with two shotguns and a rifle. 
Late last night, a police spokes­man said foreign diplomats were negotiating with the same gunmen he said were at B'nai B'rith, holding their hostages in an un­finished cafeteria on the eighth floor. 
Two other deputy police chiefs were conducting negotiations with the intruders at the District Build· ing and at the mosque. 
Police said the episodes at the mosque and at B'nai B'rith are a coordinated operation. They said there was no proof that the City Hal! takeover was linked to the other two. But it appeared to be. 

It all happened within hours. First came the strike at B'nai B'rith, the Jewish organization headquarters seven blocks north of the White House. Then at least one gunman invaded the islamic Cen­ter, a mosque on Embassy Row taking 15 hostages. Then came the shootings at the District of Colum­bia building, within sight of the White House grounds. 
Police said they believed 8 to 10 hostages were being held by the gunmen at the District building, with an undetermined number of 
[continued on page 2] Baseball and ice cream cones were two of the attractions on campus as the warm weather continued. [photo by Deb­bie Krilich] 




The Observer 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's Thursday, March 10, 1977 Vol. XI, No. 97 
n Campus Toda 
12:15 pm mass, celebrated by fr. griffin, Ia fortune ballroom. 
3 pm 3:30pm 4 pm 
7:30pm 
7:30pm 

workshop, interview skills, sponsored by smc student affairs, executive board room. 
computer course, "minitab statistics systems," room 115, computer center-math bldg. 
seminar, "molecular aspects of photosynthesis," by dr. james r. norris, chemistry division, argonne national laboratory, argonne, ill., sponsored by radiation laboratory, conference room, radiation r<!search bldg. 
meeting, philosophy honor society, "egalism and environmentalism," by dr. ken goodpaster, library lounge. 
lenten service, the way of the cross, holy cross chapel, smc. 
9-11 pm nazz, klee brothers, nazz. 

FDA to ban saccharin because of cancer danger 
WASHINGTON [AP] -The Food and Drug Administration announc­ed yesterday it is banning saccha­rin, the only artificial sweetner approved for use in the United States, because it causes cancer in laboratory animals. 
Acting FDA Commissioner. 

Sherwin Gardner said it will take at 
least until July to complete the 
administrative requirements before 
the ban goes into effect. But he 
called on manufacturers "to dis­
continue use of saccharin as soon 
as possible, even while we are · 
drafting the documents needed to 
accomplish this action." 
The FDA said it was not ordering a recall of the many soft drinks and foods containing the sugar sub­stitute, saying tests "do not in­dicate an immediate hazard to public health." 
A similar ban was announced simultaneously by the Canadian government whose scientific stud­ies were the basis for the U.S. action. _ 
The Canadian study involved feeding 100 rats a diet of 5% pure saccharin for their entire lives, from conception until death. Four­teen of those rats developed can­cerous bladder tumors compared to two such tumors in a group of 100 animals give!! no saccharin. 
The FDA order was denounced by ~n officer of Sweet 'N Low, a 
Terrorists hold hostages in D.C. 
[continued from page 1] 
workers barricaded in their offices. 
Mayor Walter E. Washington was for a time locked in his own office before he was able to leave the building. 
City Council President Sterling Tucker, first repqfted a hostage, later was found to have eluded the gunmen. But councilman Marion Barry was shot in the chest, underwent surgery and was repor­ted in stable condition. 
At B'nai B'rith, Daniel Thursz, the executive vice president, said 
large saccharin user. "Any call for 
a ban of saccharin is an outrageous 
and harmful action based on flimsy 
scientific evidence that has absolu­
tely no bearing on human health," 
said Marvin E. Eisenstadt, execu­
tive vice president of the company. 
"It is an action that provides no 
public benefit, and indeed, could 
cause great harm to the millions of 
Americans who need an artificial 
sweetner for medical reasons and 
as an aid in weight control." 
Commissioner Gardner said he could not assess the economic impact of the FDA's decision but that it would be "substantial, no question ~bout it.'' 
Gardner said his agaency would consider the possibility of classify­ing saccharin as a prescription drug to enable diabetics and other s who can't consume sugar to obtain it with their doctor's consent but that any such decision is at least months away. 
One other artificial sweetner, Aspartame, has been developed but has never been marketed. The FDA approved the substance in 1974 but then withdrew its appro­val in 1975 when it became suspicious of safety data submitted by the manufacturer. The agency is now reviewing its action but any final decision is at least a year away. 


(*The Observerl 
Night Editor: Joseph L. Bauer 
Asst. Night Editor: Leigh 
Tunakan 

Layout Staff: Sandy Cdu) 
Barry Tillis, Kathleen Kernin, 
Paula Carroll, Marti H:lgan,
Bob Brink 

Editorial Layout: Pat Hanfin 
Features Layout: Tim0Riley 
Sports Layout: Fred Herh;t, 
Greg Solman 
Typists: Mel Celeste, Gwen 
Coleman, Rusty Espinosa, 
Stephanie Urillo 
Night Controller: MJrey 
Blinder 

Day Editor: tv\ari,an Ulicny 
Copy Reader: Barb Lang-
henry, Drew Bauer, Bob Var­
ettoni 



Collegiate Jazz Festival to be held on Apri/1 and 2 
the gunmen apparently released Ad Layout: Pat RL15sell abo~t 20 hostages who were not l PhJtographer. Debbie Krilich )Jewtsh. -­
President Carter ordered FBI into the c;tse. 

by Mark Perry 
The 19th annual Collegiate Jazz 
Festival, the oldest and largest 
festival of its kind in existence 
today, will be held at Stepan Center 
on April 1 and 2. Michael T. 
Dillon, chairman of this year's 
festival. announced the schedule of 
events and guests who will serve as 
judges for the weekend's activities. 
Aided by a $1000 grant from the 
National Endowment for the Arts, 
Dillon has secured the services of 
six professional musicians and 
critics to serve as judges. This 
year's festival is highlighted by the 
return of the celebrated "Judges' 
Jam" after a one-year absence. 
Tentatively set to serve as judges 
are: Bob James, composer, arran­
ger, pianist, and -producer; Dave 
Sanborn, alto sax; Randy Brecker, 
trumpet; Will Lee, bass; Steve 
Gadd, drums; and Dan Morgen­
stern, free lance author, writer, 
and critic. Charles Suber, editor 
for Downbeat magazine, will serve 
as master of ceremonies. 
Sixteen collegiate bands and 
combos have been selected to 
participate in the festival on the 
basis of taped auditions. The . 
Lauderdale guide to be distributed 
The Notre Dame Social Commis­
sion is distributing a Fr. Lauder­
dale guide for students vacationing 
in Florida over spring break. 
Kevin Saddler, social commis­sioner, and Mike Orlando, a native of the Fr. Lauderdale area, pre­pared the five-page pamphlet des­cribing the city's bars, restaurants, and stores. In addition, the guide contains the names of popular radio stations and the locations of hospi­tals in the Fr. Lauderdale area. 
Saddler urged students to take advantage of the service by picking up the pamphlet near the mailbox in their individual halls or at the Student Union office anytime to­day. He also requested that students vacationing together share a single pamphlet as a limited number of the guides are available. 

Swimathon raises $1700 for cancer 
Over $1700 was raised for the American Cancer Society in last Sunday's Swimathon sponsored by Notre Dame's Circle K volunteer organization. 
All of the swimmers were from St. Mary's and Notre Dame and most of them swam 100 laps of the Rockne pool. Eighty percent of the contributions were from students. 


ERRATUM 
Students planning to leave their cars on campus during break should park them in lot D-1, not D-2 as reported in yesterday's Observer. 

FBI Director Clarence M. Kelley said Carter ordered the bureau to investigate "all violations of fede­ral law involved in the terrorist­type activities being perpetrated in the Washington, D.C., area." 
The Ob~erver is publ1shed Monday through ~nday and weekly dunng the summer -~ess1on. except dunng thl' exam and vac at1on penods The Ob~erwr IS publ1shed by ~tudents oi the Umversity of Notre Dam(' and St Mary·\ Colleg•• Subscnpt1on\ may bf' purchasl'd for $20 per yl'ar ($1() pt>r semester) trom T h(' Obs('r­ver, Box Q. Notrf' Danw. Indiana 46116 St><.ond cld\\ po,tag•• paid. Notn• Dalll<', lncllanJ 4b'i'ib 
rh•· Ob\Prwr " a nwmber oi-the A""' ld!f·d l'rf'\\ All n·produc tum ngh1" ctn· rt•\f•fvPd 


~adidas 
NOW OPEN SPECIALTY STORE 
AT THE HUNDRED CENTER Special Introductory Offer 
A FREE PAIR OF SOCKS WITH THE PURCHASE OF ANY PAIR OF SHOES 
The No. l narne

adidas 
festival will also markthe second appearance of the Eastman Jazz Combo, who will serve as guest band. 
Dillon stated tickets for the Jazz Festival will probably go on sale on Wednesday, March 23, and will be available at all River City Review ticket outlets and at the Notre Dame Student Union Ticket Office. Only all-session tickets will be available at this time, and tickets for the individual sessions will only be sold before each performance. 
Prices for the all-session tickets are $7.00 for Notre Dame and St. Mary's students with I.D.'s at the Student Union office, and $8.00 for general admission. Seating at thesessions will be on a first-come first-serve basis. 
The other bands represented and the schedule of events are as follows: 
Friday, April I, 1977 
3-4:30 Informal Symposium, site to be announced 
Evening Music Session 
7:30 Notre Dame Big Band 
8:00 Ohio State Combo 
8:30 Texas Southern Jazz Ensem­ble 
9:00 Fredonia Combo 
9:30 Northwestern Big Band 
Admission: $5.50 (no discounts for late admission) 
Saturday, April 2, 1977 
Afternoon Session 
12:30 Northern Iowa Jazz Ensem­ble 
1:00 Jeff Pellaton Combo--Eastern lllinois 
1:30 Eastern Illinois Big Band 
2:00 Citizen's Band--University of Iowa 
2:30 Memphis State Jazz Ensemble 
Admission: $2.50 
Evening Session 
7:00 Two High School Festival Winners 
8:00 Fredonia Big Bnd 
8:30 Notre Dame Combo 
9:00 MIT Festival Big Band 
9:30 Bill Boris/Greg Shearer Guitar Duet 
10:00 Wisconsin Conservatory Jazz Combo #8 
10:30 Medium Rare Big Band--New England Conservatory· 
11:00 Guest Performance: East­man School of Music Jazz Combo 
11:45 Award Ceremony and Award Winner's Jam Session. 
Admission: $4 

: TIMM PARTY STORE : 
!OPEN: MON-SAT 9 am-11 pm! : SUNDAY 12 noon-11 pm •
• 

: COLD BEER, PACKAG~ UQUOR,: : WINE, GOURMET FOODS : : 3114 S. 11 ST. NILES, MICIDGAN:• 1 Block North of state line on U.S. 31 • 
iht (nhmia) 

Fanrake Huus£ 
OUR SPECIALTY 
OVEN BAKED 
APPlE PANCAKES 
You'II be back for more 


Thursday, March 10, 1977 the observer 
1·977-78 Calendar Art Department tackles 
FALL SEMESTER 1977 

fire prevention project 
Aug. 27-29  Sat. thru Mon.  
Aug. 29  Monday  
Aug. 30  Tuesday  
Sept. 7  Wednesday  
Sept. 11  Sunday  
Oct. 18  Tuesday  
Oct. 22-30  Sat. thru Sun.  
Oct. 31  Monday  
Nov. 1  Tuesday  
Nov. 10..17  Th thru Th  
Nov. 24-27  Th thru Sun.  
Nov. 28  Monday  
Dec. 14  Wednesday  
Dec. 15  Thursday  
Dec. 16-22  Fri. thru Th (noon)~  

Jan. 16 Monday 
Jan. 17 Tuesday Jan. 18 Wednesday Jan. 26 Thursday Feb. 13-17 Mon thru Fri 
Mar. 8 Wednesday 
Mar. 13-17 Mon thru Fri 
Mar. 18-27 Sat thru Mon 
Mar. 28 Tuesday 
Mar. 29 Wednesday 
Apr. 20..27 Th thru Th 
May4 Thursday May8 Monday May9 Tuesday May 10..16 Wed thru Tues (noon) May 19-21 Fri thru Sun 

To improve teaching 
Orientation and Counseling for new stu­dents Registration for all students Classes begin at 8 a.m. Latest date for all class changes Formal opening of the schoo year with Concelbrated Mass. (Subject to change) Midsemester Report of Deficient Students are due in Registrar's Office Midsemester Vacation Classes resume at 8 a.m. Last day for course discontinuance Advance Registration for Spring Semester 1978 Thanksgiving holiday begins at 12:30 p.m. on Wednesday, Nov. 23 Classes resume at 8 a.m. Last Class Day Study Day (no examinations) Final Examinations (No Sunday exams) 
SPRING SEMESTER 1978 
Orientation for new students Registration Day Classes begin at 8 a.m. Latest date for all class changes Enrollment reservations for the Fall Sem­ester 1978-79 Midsemester Reports of Deficient Students due in Registrar's Office Room Reservations for Fall semester 1978-79 Easter Vacation begins after last class Friday, March 17 Classes resume at 8 a.m. Last day for course discontinuance Advance Registration for the Fall semester 1978-79 and for the Summer Session 1978 Ascension Thursday (no classes) Last Class Day Study Day (no examinations) Final Examinations (no Sunday exams) Commencement Weekend 
PIRIT-introduced at SMC 
by Maureen Sa,Jbel Staff Reporter 

The .St. Mary's Academic Coun­ci1 met last night to discuss a project for improving teaching methods, elections of student rep­resentatives within departments and academic policies with regard to cheating, plagiarism and student honesty. 
Sister Maria c. McDermott, professor of education, introduced a program called the "project for institutional renewal through im­proved teaching (PIRIT)." This program, funded by Lily Pharma­cutical company, is active in 16 colleges in the United States and abroad. It studies students' learning styles and then gives this informa­tion to the faculty so they may assess their teaching styles. 
McDermott said that the pre­dominant style used is lecturing, note-taking, and writing papers for teaching purposes. She stated that 
other learning and teaching styles letters sent to members of each what students feel to be the extend exist that are both beneficial and major to obtain nominations, send-of the problem and the possilbe challenging. ing out ballots, or having specified solutions. 
The organizat~onal con;tmittee for ~---•••-cUP & SAVE••----.,
PIRIT has been m operation for one year and is expanding to include 1 SUNDAY MASSES I 
another student and several more 
I ~~~~~t~f a~~ ~~~~~~;eprr::;:; I all (Main Church) II 
commtttee has only one student ~ M h 
member, senior Dianna Schmitz. 
I 

. P~ hopes to aceo~plish their 
mstituttonal renewal wtth the use 
I 

of questionnaires and student and­faucltyinterviews. Theemphasisin >w the~~ inten:i<:ws is on social, <( pohttcal, rehgtous and academic 
subjects. V) "No institutional renewal is pos-~ sible without students," MeDer-a..· 
mort stated. After discovering the :::; needs of students and faculty, U McDermott hopes that there will be I 
a better understanding between 
members of the St. Mary's com-I munity and that they will be able to I make adjustments and improve­ments with regard to teaching and 1 
learning methods. 
She ~ent on t~ suggest that the I aca~emtc counctl. work on this I proJ<:ct by helpmg to set upelections for the PIRIT student 1 
representatives and help distribute days for students to come into the 
questionnaires. department office and vote. 
PIRIT student members will Each present department repre­
travel to four learning and teaching sentative will submit a method for 
workshops a year and attend handling th~ electic"!. within her 
weekly PIRIT meetings. department. Coyne emphasized 
The second major issue at the that she "didn't want to say there 
academic council meeting was the was one right way." Many of the 
department's student representa-departments have not had elections 
tive elections.. Each department or representatives before. 
has one student and an alternate The last issue the council discus-­
that are members of the academic sed was a statement on academic 
council and, in some cases, vote in honesty. Leaflets were distributed 
faculty meetings. on the isues of honesty, plagiarism, 
Cathy Coyne, vice president of and cheating on the coolege level. · academic affairs, told of her These statements define what 
origitial plans for a massive school-cheating and plligiaris a are and 
wide election to decide student their possible consequences. 
ment. She stated that this idea had about cheating on the cover of dissolved "because it was taking every blue examination book and elections out of the department's inserted in every bookstore folder control." and that all exams be proctored. 
The plan going into effect will After break, surveys will be leave the elections to the discretion distributed to assess student opin­of each department. Coyne sugges-ion on the cheating problem. The ted mass departmental meetings, surveys are intended to extablish 
..

-·•••••cuP & sAve••-•-• 
arc  13, 1977  I  
Saturday 5:15 p mS d ' · ·  Re v.  J ames  M G th C ra ,  C.S.C. 1  
un ay, Sunday,  9:30a.m. 10:45 a.m.  Rev. Lawrence Jerge, C.S.C. Rev. JohnS. Dunne, C.S.C.  J  
Sunday,  12:15 p..m.  Rev. William Toohey, C.S.C. ("") 
!::  
-c  

Vespers will be held in Lady Chapel at 1:15 p.m. Qo The celebrant is Rev. JohnS. Dunne, C.S.C. 
)!

M h 2Q
~ arc ' 1977 ~ 
•

Saturday, 5:15p.m. Rev. Joseph Carey, C.S.C. 1 Sunday, 9:30a.m. Rev. Edward Malloy, C. S.C. Sunday, 10:45 a.m. Rev. David B. BurTell, C.S.C. I Sunday, 12:15 p.m. Rev. William Toohey, C.S.C. I 
Vespers will be held in Lady Chapel at 7:15p.m. 1 · 'The celebrant is Rev. David B. BurTell, C.S.C. and the lenten homilist is Rev Edward Malloy C S C I
· ' · · · 
by Brlgld Rafferty 

A challenge by the Armco Steel Corporation to form an industrial design project under the theme of "firefighting" is being tackled by a group of Notre Dame students, as a program of the Art Department. 
"We had to learn what fire-fight­ing was, first," explained Freder­ick Beckman, art department pro­fessor and faculty leader of the project. "This involved in-depth research, which started in Septem­ber. The object of industrial design is to approach the problem, define it, and focus on areas that are in need. We focused on 'combat gear', and the problem of disasters in high-rises," he said. 
Some combat gear is "ancient", according to Beckman with the helmet and face-mask ill-designed to fit with each other. The Art Department project focused on this problem, as well as the designing of turnout coats and trousers of material which can withstand very hot temperatures. 
A plan for designating critical floors in high-rises, and sites where fire-fighting equipment is instal­led, was also devised. 
One problem with the common fire-fighting cabinets in buildings, according to Beckman, is that they are simply "first-aid kits for fire," and can be easily ripped off. 
The members of the project suggest a large cabinet which would also contain fresh-air tanks and professional hoses. They also designed vehicles for fightin~ fire on water and for use in large malls. 
Beckman and 14 students will 
present their project•-its concepts 
and models--to a group of under­
writers and fire investigators in 
Dallas, Texas, on March 28, along 
with other colleges who are partici­
pating in the project. 
According to Beckman, Armco, who sponsors all aspects of the yearly progrjm ~n tiptely, vital 

topics, seems to be enthused about the student fire-fighting sugges­tions. Lab tests of concepts would be given only by them. 
Why is a project in Industrial Design directed to the Art Depart­ment? "You need a creative aspect," says Beckman, "in addi­tion to thethoJ.!ght process~ This project fit in well with the class it was presented to. Enthusiasm for it !s very high, and we may have sptn-offs on something similar after the project.is over." 
RIP-0 f 
Seniors 

How many commencement tickets will you need? 


Will 3 or 4 handle it? 
H not, over break ask your parents to write Fr. Burtchaell and tell him how much your whole falniiy wants to go to commencement. Otherwise, they may be watching you graduate on TV from their hotel room. 

representatives from each depart-Also suggested were warnings ~~~!!!!!!!!!! 

lt? 

1career in law­
without law school. 
What can you do with only a bachelor's degree? 
Now there is a way to bridge the gap between an 
u~dergraduate education and a, challenging, respon­
Sible career. The Lawyer's Assistant is able to do 
work traditionally done by lawyer<.. 
Three months of intensive training can give you the skills-the courses are taught by lawyers. You choose one of the seven courses offered~choose 1Re city in which you want to work. 
Since 1970, The Institute for Par?!egal Training has placed more than 1600 graduates in law firms, banks, and corporations in over 75 cities. 
If you are a senior of high academic standing and 
are interested in a career as a Lawyer's Assistant 
we'd like to meet you. · 
Contact your placement office for an interview with' our representai;ve. 
We will visit your campus on TUESDAY, MARCH 29 
The Institute for Paralegal Training 
2~5 South 17th Stre.:ot, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19103 (215) 732-6600 Operated by Para-Legal, Inc. 
AC-00 

4 ..__,_________ ·---·-·..--.;.;;----.. 

Carter phones gunman at end of 45-hour seige 
WARRENSVILLE HEIGHTS, Ohio [AI']-A black gunman who held a white policeman hostage 45 hours in the name of freedom for his people was charged with kidnapp­ing yesterday and received a promised telephone call from Pres­ident Carter. 
"He wished me luck," Cory Moore told re~rters after the President talked to his by tele­phone. 
As part of t_he expansion of the Cushing Hall of Engineering, the South Quad is being torn up and 
the sewer hnes rerouted. 

SMC room selection to begin March 22 
by Jady Cerabona 

The room pick process for St. Mary's will start on March 22 when students may freeze rooms. 
To freeze a room, the majority of students must agree to stay in the room• Rooms may be frozen on March 22 between 8 a.m. and 6:30 p.m. 
The room lottery will be held on Wednesday, March 23 at 6:30p.m. for all classes. Juniors are to go to the Reignbeaux Lounge in LeMans, sophomores to the Rectangle iri the "
LeMans basement, and freshmen 
to the Pebble in Holy Cross. 
A $50 room deposit must be paid 
by March 25 to enable a student to . choose a room. This money is non-refundable. An additional $150 room deposit is due by May 1 which is non-refundable after that 
date. 
Koom selection for juniors will be on March 29. Sophomores will choose their rooms on March 30. Freshmen will pick their rooms on March 31 (numbers 1-200) and 
April 4 (numbers 200-end). 
All students should go to the Reignbeaux Area at 6:30 p.m.
Before selecting a room, each student is req1.1ired to have a room deposit receipt and her I.D. 
Minnie Owens, director of hous­
ing, stressed the importance of the 
Housing Office and Admissions Office working together. "We are working in close cooperation with the Admissions Office" to prevent the emergency housing problem which occurred this year, she noted. 
stop by the Observer office (3rd floor Lafortune) to fill out an application 
____ ,. ___..... 
The Observer is looking for some fast moving people to work in ad sales and 
service next year ­
Excellent sales experience and a healthy commission are offered 
officials would only say that Carter telephoned Moore at 4:13 p.m., about 6 hours after the siege ended. 
Moore surrendered to his di­abetic hostage, Capt. Leo Keglovic, 
, moments after watching Carter repeat during a nationally televised news conference a pledge to call. Keglovic led Moore from the City Hall room they had occupied since Monday afternoon into the custedy of oth~r officers who waited_in the 
The Housing Office will send the number of spaces left after room picks to the Admissions Office so they can work with that number. "We won't have to worry about an emergency," she said. 
Augusta Hall will remain a hall for juniors and seniors. Quads will be available for the first time. 
"April 6 and 7 will be the final room change days for the sum­mer," Owens stated. 
.,-;
0 nI e
2 5 ¢ 
· 

From 9 -11 From 9 -11 
7 & 7 ' s 
corridor. 
The 49-year-old policeman was whiSked to a nearby hospital for examination. He returned a short time later to tell reporters that Moore "treated me real good." 
Standing outside City Hall in Warrensville Heights, a Cleveland suburb, Keglovic said of Moore, "basically, maybe he's a little mixed up" but" he was real strong 
.on many of the black rights points. We rapped good after a 
[photo by Debbie Krilich 1 
Celebrate St. Pat's early at Fat Wally's 
25C Draft Beers all Thurs. Nite. 
•t 

while." 
Moor:e throughout the siege threatened a curse on whites if they didn't leave the earth within a week and pressed Carter for a telephone 
call and a public apology for black oppression by whites. 
After he surrendered, he said he felt he didn't accomplish the goals he set before he took as hostages Keglovic and a 17-year-old traffic clerk, Shelley Ann Kiggans.. The young woman was released after midnight Monday. 
"I hope white America will understand there is a need for hunger all over the world to come to an end." Moore said in a brief news conference after his surren­der, "America has a very serious 
Your Source for the Unusual in Diamonds and Precious Gems Platinum and Gold Jewelry 
You'll find untold treasures of the finest quality brought to you by the eye of an expert.* And sold with the care of a professional.* 


Insurance appraisals and purchases of fine diamonds and estate jewelry provided. 
'Graduate Gemologist: Gemological Institute of America 'Fellow Gemmologist: Gemmological Association of Great Britain 'B.A.: Indiana University 
Lobby St. Joseph Bank Building South Bend, Indiana Telephone: 287-1427 
)

John M. Marshall's 
CDlamond 9mpollt Company 
Your Source for the Unusual 

··~···­
Sa\l~lS'o 
Trisb Drinkwar~ 
You'll save more than a wee bit of the green with these handsome imports! Sparkling clear and generously sprinkled with shamrocks for good luck, they're yours in all the mo5t wanted sizes from the 1 oz. liqueur to the 8 oz. Irish Coffee with the recipe right on it! From the Schmid Collection. 
Box of 6: Reg. Now
··-­
A) 1 oz. liqueur $12.00 $ 9.00 B) 2 oz. shot glass $10.00 $ 7.50 C) 5 oz. cocktail $13.00 $ 9.75 
D) 8 oz. old fashion (2 patterns) $12.00 $ 9.00 'E) 3 oz. sherry $12.00 $ 9.00 
F) 8 oz. brandy (3 patterns) $17.50 $13.10 
G) 8 oz. Irish Coffe~ (with or without recipe) Boxof6: $16.50 $12.35 Boxof2: $ 7.20 $ 5.40 
H) 10oz. BeerMug $ 1.70ea. 
$ 1.25 ea. 


Notre Dame Bookstore 
problem. The problem is us. White folk don't understand human needs." 
Moore was waiting in a traffic bureau line Monday when he pulled ot a hidden gun and forced Ms. Kiggans into a nearby office, firing three shots in the progress~ Keglovic heard the gunfire, came running from police headquarters in the building and was taken hostage. 
Moore pleaded innocent in Bed­ford Municipal Court to two char­ges of kidnapping and was re­turned to jail in Warrensville Heights on $200,000 bond. Maxi­mum penalty on conviction is 25 years in prison, $1,000 fine of both on each charge, authorities said. 

·--....... _ .. _ ............ _ ............................. _I 
_.. _,___ "' ....... -a. ................. _._ ....................................... -----·-··· __ ., ____ ...... -.-·-· 


-----~-------­
5

Thursday, March 10, 1977. the-observer 
Federal internship opportunities announced 
sity, De Pauw, Case Western .------------------·--------------~============~ 
by Joe Slovinec 

Notre Dame students are offered an opportunity to spend the sum­mer working as an intern for the federal government in Washington 
D.C. Notre Dame Placement Bureau Director Richard D. Wille­min announced invitations from several major federal departments and agencies to nominate Notre Dame students for internships. 
Each department will only accept 
• 

Student Advisory Council to host academic affairs conference 
by Michael Lewis 

The Notre Dame Arts and Leters Student Advisory Council (ALSAC), assisted by the College of Arts and Letters, will sponsor the second annual Midwest Con­ference on Academic Affairs, ac­cording to conference chairman Scott Medlock. 
Starting Oct. 14, the conference will be attended by approximately 25 universities and colleges. Schools of all sizes will be invited, including all of the Big Ten 
universities, Washington Univer­
Reserve and St. Mary's. "The conference will serve two main goals,'' Madlock statet;l. "First of all it will give students a chance to share ideas and experi­ences concerning the improvement of the respective schools. Se­condly, it is an opportunity to develop better lines of communica­tion between the student body, faculty and administration here at Notre Dame," he outlined. Conference activities include dis cussions, seminars and presenta-
Mock Market to open March 21 
The annual 'Mock Stock Market, sponsored by the Notre Dame Finance Club, will open on Monday, March 21 at 10 a.m. in the lobby of the old business adminis­tration building. 
Between 10 a.m. and 3· p.m. Notre Dame and St. Mary's stu­dents can open a single $10,000 account for one dollar or three $10,000 accounts for two dollars at the Mock Stock Market booth on any trading day. 
The investor with the largest dollar increase over the trading period, ending April 21, will win $100. Second place is worth $50, and third place $25. The first pirze has been donated by Thomson, McKinnon Securities, Inc., a South Bend brokerage firm. 
Traders at the booth will be provided the latest prices of New York and American Exchange stocks by constant communication between the booth and a telequote machine. Selling short and buying long will be permitted, and a mock brokerage commission will be charged for all purchases. 
Throughout the mock market participants will know how they stand in relation to others by means of posted information at the booth, Observer articles arid WSND broadcasts. 
Co-Chairman Dan Bishop and Robert Fauria see the Mock Mar­ket as a learning experience and a challenge to the gambling instinct. They note that students can learn something about the stock_ market through first hand experience with­out extreme financial risk. 
PlacementBureau sign-ups set 
The Placement Bureau an­nounced that sign-ups for the week of March 28 will begin on Tuesday,
Marc'f(2·2·...rnStca·crorM<lncray. · · 
two nominees from Notre Dame and ·applications must be com­pleted with three weeks. 
The Department of Labor Occu­
, pational Safety and Health Admin­istration in Washington, DC. has openings in data processing and general administrative duties for entering juniors and seniors who are majoring in math or data processing. The application dead­line is March 25. The National Aeronautics and Space Administration at the Lyn­
tions concerning a variety of aca­demic subjects. Among the main topics of the conference will be the liberal arts cirriculum; guidance, counseling and college-student communication; problems of the Freshman Year and student parti­cipation. 
The conference will also consider presentations on other topics, such as the value oriented aspects of the curriculum, extracurricular acade­mics and special programs like CILS and the Free University. 
The first Midwest Conference on Academic Affairs was held at don B. Johnson Space Center in Houston, Texas, has openings in various positions for graduate stu­dents and seniors entering gradu­ate school in engineering, math, physics, and physical science. Applications are due by March 28. 
The U.S. Civil Service Commis­sion in Washington, D.C. has openings in administrative support for special projects, inducing e:rten sive research for juniors and se­niors who will enter graduate school for business administration 
Northwestern University in Novem­
. her, 1976. Sponosred by the Student Advisory Board of that University's College of Arts and Letters, the conference hoped to share ideas on how to better manage academic problems. 
This meeting, attended by Notre Dame and her neighboring univer­sities, was deemed ''very success­ful'' by ALSAC. 
Any Notre Dame student or faculty member who wishes to help organize or participate in the conference should contact Scott Medlock or any member of ALSAC. 

and public administration. April 1 is the final application date. 
The Social Security Administra­tion in Baltimore, Maryland, has one position available· for an entering senior in math or statistics and one research position for a graduate student or senior entering graduate school in math or statistics. The application deadline is March 18. 
The Defense Mapping Agency in Washington, D.C., has openings for entering third-year law students 
in legal research and writing
projects. Applications are due on. April 1. The Internal Revenue Serivce (IRS) has openings for graduating seniors with an English1 degree in statistical research and writing with applications also due 
Aprill. The Office of the Secretary of Transportation has openings for entering juniors and seniors in engineering. The application dead line is April 1. 
Only students with a high GPA1 and a well-rounded background in: extracurricular activities will be considered for internships, Wille­min noted. Undergraduates must be in the top third of their class and graduates must be in the top half of 
their class. Interested students can obtain the two U.S. government applica­tion forms from the Placement 
This Is a cryptogram, a form of code language, the "Q" always standing for "A;' the 'T for "C;' where letters of the alphabet stand for other and the "t.:· for "T." Your challenge is to break the letters of the alphabet. For instance, the words code of the cryptogram below, and discover its "A CAT" in a cryptogram might be ··o TQL;· hidden message. 

MBSIZT ECIO VJWNCJOH MZ VWUOISZD CIRF: "KT RISWG LIZ UK ZMFT ZJOT EIC ESCZDTC HTMCRD IC RILHJGTCMZJIL, ISC QJRZSMWH ATJLN OSRD HVTLZ, THVTRJMWWU ISC ATTCT' 

--.......___ 
'-,

When there's a challenge, quality makes the difference. 
We hope you have some fun with the challenge. 
There's another challenge we'd like to offer you, too. The Pabst challenge: We welcome the chance to orove the quality of 
our beer. We challenge yoL' [0 taste tind compare Pabst Blue Ribbon to any other premium beer. You'll like Pabst better. Blue Ribbon quality means the best tasting beer you can get. Since 1844 it always has. 
PABST. Since 1844. The quality has always come through. 
c l'tll BRfW1NCi COMf'ANY Mtlwauk•·r· W1s Pt•(ma Ht•tqht~ Ill N11wnrk N .J los AnqPil''> ('alii 1\ti''>t litoor·II.L 
. . · J!cJJJ8 Hno All\ii:JJdSJ 1N3dS H:Jm~ ~-1NI1B swnDI~ uno NcliiVH i<IISNo~' uu··· · .. -··· ·...... ·· -~-{Jllvts "H lHll::lll~\1{)·~).~').~)(\M~~Q,(lo;.J ..l"'··~.,v.~·~l·l·q~·A..l,.I'J'+·-..--w·~~,.l.,~,.v"'Hi 1.. u, Ul"'·V-il~OJI~''£fs 
L_------~~====~============~~~~~ 
Bureau. Pne form is a personal statement of qualifications and the other is a transcript of grades with a supporting statement from a professor. 
A. Review Committee composed of a professor or assistant dean from each department will examine the applications and choose the two nominees for each federal depart­ment internship. Interested stu­dents must apply immediately 5ince the application deadlines are drawing near. 
~-------------. 
need resumes in a hurry? 

~ 
I • I

•lftS Y•prlft 5 
the wiz of the printing biz! 
rag bond 25 _ 81/2 X 1 1 $2.55 
203 N. Main So Bend 289-697 
"*The Observer 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's 
The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College It does not necessarily reflect the policies of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters are the views of their authors. Co~u!lln space is available to all members o'f ·the community, and letters are encouraged to promote the free 
expression of varying opinions on r.ampus. Barb Breitenstein Don Reimer
Box Q
Bu~iness Manager Tom Fronczak Martha L. Fanning
Notre Dame
Advertising Manager Mike Miller Fred Herbst Photo Editor Tony Chifari Ind. 46556 Tom Byrne 
Thursday, March 10, 1977 
Gassman: 
'A' for Effort 
Nearly one year ago, Mike Gassman took office as student body president after winning the election by a wide margin on the first ballot. He brought with him considerable experience as the Academic Commisioner who finally got the Academic Council to adopt a calendar students favored. like all new student body presidents he entered office with high hopes and a long list of campaign promises. Now, with his tenn nearly over, 
what has the Gassman regime accomp­
lished? 
Judicial Coordinator Bob Bode put ip. 

much effort reviving the hall judicial 
boards. At the beginning of the year most 
halls did not even have functioning 
J-boards. Now, in large part because of the Gassman regime's work, all halls have boards. But the SBP cannot make students use the boards, he can only try to insure that boards are available. Most students continue to prefer going to the rector to 
deal with disciplinary problems. And, despite public statements to the contrary, some rectors still seem reluctant to let the j-boards do much. This reluctance will have to be left to the next regime to deal 
· h
Wit . _
Student government's continued efforts to get the Indiana legislature to lower the drinking age were of course less success­ful, but not for lack of effort. Jerry
Klingenberger and his staff put in long hours on the lobbying effort but opposition from conservative legislators and voters 
continued to be too strong. The drinking· bill is a long-tenn effort which will have to be canied on by the Bender regime. 
Hopes of improving the services of, and links between, Student Government and Student Union ran aground because of a feud between the two organizations over the independence of the Student Union director. Relations between Gassman and 
S. U. director Ken Ricci were strained all 
t. ff d b th 

year, and effec 1veness su ere on o sides. 
Gassman hoped to improve student-faculty relations. The approach to the faculty came mainly in the Academic Council and continued Gassman's own efforts during the calendar fight. Though 
the Academic Council was not as active as in past years, closer relations there may ~ay off in the future. 
Improving contact with the Board of 
Trustees was another aim. Gassman's
meeting with the Board's Student Affairs 
EDITORIAL BOARD 
Thomas O'Neil Dan Sanchez Chris Smith Gregg Bangs Val Zurblis Pat Hanifin Tim O'Reiley Bob Mader Maureen Flynn Marti Hogan Kathy Mills 
Editor-in-Chief Managing Editor Asst. Managing Ed. 
Executive Editor 
Executiv" Editor 
Editorial Editor 
features Editor 
Exec. News Editor Campus Editor St. Mary's Editor 
News Editor News Editor Copy Editor 
Production Ed1tor Sports Editor Contributing Editor 

mg Notre Dame lacks the money. That rejection killed the idea for the near future. Gassman's people have gone looking for outside backers and claim to have four prospects but don't expect anything defin­ite soon. 
The Gassman regime continued work on the perennial issue of LaFortune renova­tion. It has just presented extensive new plans for renovation to the Administration, plans backed by a survey of student 
desires. But LaFortune renovation, like cablevision, must be paid for by the University or by wealthy outside benefac­tors. The SBP proposes but the Admini­stration disposes. 
Two other issues arose in the course of the year: the great case of Pigs vs. Price and the laundry proposal. After the usual prolonged discussions both were resolved successfully: the pigs got their garbage and the students will get their washing machines. Overall, then, how successful has Gass­man been? True, he failed to achieve some of his major goals--a lowere drinking age, cablevision, better links between student government and Student Union. True, he 
h · 

leaves some ot er proJects incomplete, such 
'tali · hall · b ard B t h h
<\S reVI ?mg J" o s. u e as 
parting shot !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
Saving the SLC 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii pat hanifin 
worked hard and done about as much as any Bender's idea would eliminate student body president can be expected to do the faculty members who often with an apathetic student body behind have valuable suggestions and who him have often supported student pro-The SBP can suggest, and argue and posals that the Administration ~as lobby but there are ~ew areas where he ~an ~~~~::~~ !~ :~~~~:~f~~~~r::~~:-:,~:t~ act completely on hts own. He cannot giVe tie in the Academic Council showed orders to the Indiana legislature or the how effective student-faculty coop-Administration or the student body. He is eration can be. 
The Student Life Council has come in for heavy criticism this year and justifiably so. One mem­ber, asked at the end of last semester what it had done so far, replied, "We haven't done sh--." That record has not been improved this semester. Clearly something needs to be done to revive the SLC but proposals to junk the present model and start ove~ such as SBP-elect Dave Bender has mad; would only make things worse. 
The SLC has been declining in activity and influence for years but this year it has almost completely degenerated into a debating soci­ety. Members sit around discus­sing vast, vague issues like "sexu­ality at Notre Dame" and long­range "personal development." 
A year of this has produced no legislation although the Council was originally created as a legisla­tive group to deal with current University problems. In fact, the SLC's only products this year are some statistics on social space, a long-delayed survey of student opinions on coeducation which the Administration tossed in the circu­lar file, and a stack of committee reports which wiii end in the same piece. 
The interminable discussions and general futility have driven some of the faculty members away
and the students seem unable to 
deal with Bro. Just Paczesny's obstruction of real action. 
To get the Council moving again SBP-elect Dave Bender has pro­posed drastically restructuring it. He wishes to replace the current
membership with a group of rectors 
elected by the other rectors and an equal number of hall social com­missioners. The idea is that since student life takes place primarily in the halls, the Student Life Council should be made up of 
people intimately concerned with 
the halls. That way policy would supposedly be made by those who implement it. · 
A rector-student group is cer­tainly a fine idea and could improve rector-student communications on
h 11 rf r . B t 't h ld t a 1 e po Icies. u 1 s ou no
replace the SLC. 
in office for only a year while it usually Faculty members would be re-President and the Trustees. 
takes several years to push a novel idea p Q B Q
like cablevision through the University !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! • • bureaucracy. 
Gassman's style has been deliberately Dear Editor: low-key, aiming at quiet discussion of problems. This has made some students The Ukrainian Club of Notre 
Dame wishes to voice its support of 
think he has done nothing. In fact his the Carter Administration's actions technique requires long and careful pre-in defense of dissidents in the paration and has paid off, at least partially, Soviet Union. in areas like long-range planning, judicial On February s. 1977, the presi­boards and student-faculty relations. In dent and one of the members of a other areas, such as LaFortune renovation, group of Ukrainian intellectuals hs work may pay 0 ff in the future organized in the Committee to 
· Monitor the Implementation of the 
Mike Gassman has not achieved every Helsinki Accords in Ukraine were goal he aimed at--no SBP ever will--but he arrested by the Soviet secret police. has had some successes and at least No charges were brought against deserves an "A" for effort. them. 
placed With men who, whatever their personal opinions, would be appointees of the central admini­strators, directly answerable to Paczesny. Students would lose access to top administrators while still having to deal with their subordinates. 
Replacing specially elected stu­dent representatives with hall social commissioners is even more ridiculous. Social commissioners are chosen for their ability to organize parties, not to deal with the whole range of student issues. Further, Bender has completely forgotten the roughly 1400 people who live off-campus. They would be left with no representatives at all. 
Such drastic changes would have to be approved by the current SLC, which is unlikely, and then by the 
"Board of Trustees, which is even more unlikely. Administrators like the current arrangement--it looks nice but does nothing--and the Board will not overrule them. 
Even if the Board did like the idea it operates so slowly that the change would take a whole year to put through. Then would come the actual re-organization. During all this time the SLC would be doing nothing. It is about time a new SBP sticks with the structures he inher­its and concentrates on making them work instead of spending the whole year reorganizing. 
The basic flaw in Bender's plan is that he thinks the SLC's problem is structural. This is wrong: with the same tripartite structure the SLC was dynamic when it was created in the late sixties. It was the Council, for instance that won Board approval of the first visita­tion hours. 
That potential is still there but the Council needs active student support (as it had in the sixties) to do its job. Since most students get excited only about issues that effect them immediately such as the draft or the calendar, the Council will have to work on these issues. Even the most concerned 'student will quickly weary of endless debates on "sexuality" and "develop­ment.'' 
. Finally, the SLC needs dynamic student members capable of rous­ing working students, with facutly and standing up to administrators. 
The SBP and SBVP -should take the lead in this revival. 
Even if the SLC cannot be revived next year, it should at I~ast be kept going to serve again when the students want to use a legisla­tive body with direct access to the 
0 X !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~ 
Since both the U.S. and the 
U.S.S.R. are signatories of the Helsinki Pact, their governments have a written commitment, as well as a mota! obligation, to uphold and defend every point of this pact, invluding the resolutions concern­ing human rights. Mr. Carter has indicated our nation's direct and unequivocal stand on this issue by stating "Our commitment to hu­man rights must be absolute" and "Because we are free, we can never be indifferent to the fate of freedom ' elsewhere." 
The Ukrainian Club of Notre Dame 
-------------------------------­
DOONESBURY 
Committee in November was so poorly r------------, 
organized that he ran out of time before he could present his main proposal, cable t.v. Despite this, Student Government has tried to keep in contact with the Board by mail and by conversations with trustees visiting campus. Gassman wi!l have another chance at the Board's meeting in May, after his tenn officially ends. 
A campus-wide cablevision system was Gassman's biggest plan, an idea he believes has a major educational and social advantage for Notre Dame. Although he pushed if for most of his tenn, supporting it with surveys and studies, the Officers of 
liEU, NO 
MIIN!THAT 
PARTIXJN'T 
CIJM£ 'TII­THEENO! I 

the University rejec•ed cablevision, claim-L,;,;.,~__.;._......;.~-----" 
·I/ti/WT 7D KNOtl/ ~VEJ?YTJIING 7/IER£ 15 70 KNO«J A8(){}T 7HATOL..' OU/JE! I.IJHO liE 15, Willi!?£ liE CAME F~M, lA/HAT HE /JSW 70 E.ltT RR BR&AI<­TIIEil/110/..£ NUM8£3f?., /JIG~ I 
by Garry Trudeau 
WHY OON'T YO/J CIIVS&IT'S JUST CAU... HIM SOM6THIN' UP ANOA51<. IHAVE70 HIM?\ fJOONMY 
OfAJN_ MAN! 


the observer 7
P. 0. Box Q~!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~~ 



refund or lowest payment the IRS
Ticket Policy allows. Furthermore, through TAP The Second 
six year existence, the IRS has yet to reject a single return. 
Party?

In keeping with its objectives, 
TAP is ready to extend its SWAT
Explained 
Dear Editor: 

service to residents at additional proposed sites which meet with its Prof. Worland's letter showed Dear Editor: guidelines (clients must have in­such fine discrimination in taking come under $12,000; location in the AAUP to task for insidiouslyI'm writing in response to Mon­Indiana and a reasonable traveling conflating two issues into one,day's letter questioning the Stu­distance from the University; loca­perhaps he might explain his final dent Union ticket selling proce­tion supplied by group should not hortatory remarks: "Do not allow dure. -~ticket manager, I respect conflict with other TAP sites). an extraneous third party to inter­the question proposed and feel I Any suggestions and requests ject itself into the process of should dignify that letter with a may be addressed to Professor university governance." What is 
response. 
Kenneth Milani; 247 Hayes-Healy the second party, Steve?
It has and still is standard 
Center; Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 or Prof. R. J. Lordiprocedure for selected tickets to be 
Gary Harde~; 1114 Grace Hall;
pulled by Student Union for the 
Notre Dame, ln., 46556. 
benefit of its members. These Gary M. Harden 
SMC

·tickets are pulled prior to opening TAP Officer day of sale and are reserved for those rmembers requesting them. 
Counselling 

We attempt to select those seats in Dear Editor: 
varied locations and we try not to Several Saint Mary's Collegeslight any persons who have faculty members and Resident waited in line. Advisors have mentioned to me However, we feel that some Insults Amish that manySMC students are reluct­reward should be given to those ant to explore their problems with workers for their time and service the professional counselors in the 
O'Reiley 
Dear Editor: 

to the Union. Since there are no campus Counseling Center because 
paying jobs, e·xcept for the ticket In past inonths I have read with they fear their disclosures will not mingled scorn and disgust the remain in confidence. This letter is 
office workers and Campus Press, 
preferential tickets are viewed as series of feature articles entitles written in an attempt to answer questions which are frequently
our way of thanking ~hese people. "Magnificent Meals in Michiana." We appreciate legitimate ques­Mr. O'Reiley seems to be unable to 
asked about Counseling Center write a without policies and procedures. ­tions concerning our policy and in column insulting Does the fact that you've seen aparticular this procedure. But we someone. He has slandered wo­counselor go on any college record? 
stand by this system of rewarding men, waitresses, fat persons, Hun­No. Counseling Center records are
garians, Slavs and New Yorkers.
union members for the service and housed separately and cannot be
Since this list covers well over half
shall continue it. 
seen by anyone other than the

the population of the planet I 
professional counselors in the Cen­Christopher McCabe thought he was running out of ter. Any confidential notes made byvictims.

SU Ticket Manager the counselor are destroyed upon
But now he turns to attack a 
graduation.

small group ot devoted and pious Can faculty member, collegeChristians who seek only to be left administratm, parent, or another
The Other a 
SWAT Team 
to quietly practice their faith. I student find out whether a student refer to the Amish, a group whom is seeing a counselor? No. When Mr. O'Reiley in his most recent the interested party calls, the column labeled "those living relics counselor explains that wh~"ther or of the nineteenth century." not someone is seeing a cv~nselor 
Dear Editor: 
If O'Reiley's ~norance did not is confidential. We explain the surpass even his disdain for his importance of maintaining that Contrary to the beliefs of many, fellow man, he would have realized confidence to the relationship be­
there are, indeed, two SWAT tween the counselor and student.
that the religion of the Amish leads 
squads associated with the Univer­The caller's usual intent is
them to adhere to a life-style long to 
sity of Notre Dame. The older and express his concern for the student
pre-dating the nineteenth century.
less publicized of the two forms an and his is encouraged to express
So not only does he insult a vital
integral part of the Accounting ' this concern directly to her. He may 
religious tradition by calling it a
Department's Tax Assistance Pro­ask her directly whether she is
"relic", he also has the century
gram (TAP). receiving assistance with her pro-·
wrong. 
blem.

SWAT is a mobile group of 
For the safety of the campus I
Senior Accounting Majors who If a student would like her 
suggest that Mr. O'Reiley be kept 
counselor to verify her involvement forfeit their Saturday leisure (in­caged and that his magnificent in counseling or shar~ specificcluding March 5th's afternoon meals in Michiana be fed to him ·information with someom., she may basketball victory over USF) in through the bars. Chunks of raw sign a form allowing such a releaseorder to help low income residents meat and vichysoisse soup would and must ontline specifically what(income under $12,000) file their 

be appropriate. is to be disclosed. 
Indiana and Federal income tax With deepest respect, The only tmie a counselor in.
returns free ·of charge. These K.J. Muhlhausen volves anyone, without necessarilyWeekend missions have included receiving the student's permission, trips to various cities outside the is during a serious emergency. If a immediate environs as well as student is a serious danger to visits to Michiana locations distant 
herself or others or is out of touch from the nine established TAP Just Pathetic with reality and cannot be respons­centers. ible for herself, parents are notified 
The abbreviation represents Dear Editor: 1) of what has occurred to cause the Students Working At Taxes and 'the failure of the members of the emergency situation and 2) whet­
not Against Taxation as indicated St. Mary's student-body to produce her or not the student will be able by the March 4th article published the required sixty per cent re­to remain at Sain Mary's. by the Observer. SWAT performs sponse necessary for the parietals Are there any ckcumstances 
a service motivated by the highest committee to present its case for where the content of a counseling 
interview is shared with anyone?

social values and priorities and the extension of parietal hours does Again, no, unless the studentdoes not purport tax evasion as the not show that they are apathetic. It requests such a release and signsprinted )able suggestd. TAP shows that they are Pathetic. 
the release form. The collegeassures its clients of the maximum Chris Curran administration has taken the posi­

(I --------.,I 
I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I
I. 
I I 
I .:-~· '$~~w:.;~~ ~ /1t.z,l/' I 
~ . ...,., I 

"" • .. ~ "" <:llll\l!i>l(.ill!l SR.
I 
-· "!!'~ -~##"'~ ,...~ ~ t;ISSlDR{fS OF YOUR OWN 10 LOOK AmR.? " · I
'~'T you ~YE 

tion that students should have prefessionals on campus with whom they can talk, without con­cern that the· information will be shared with parents, friends, ad­ministrators, etc. The following are examples o.f ·topics which many students would have difficulty ex-
WASHINGTON--The "human rights" issue in the Soviet Union has the Kremlin terribly upset. The question is why? I posed this problem to my good friend Gregor, a minor functionary at the Soviet Embassy with high KGB connec­tions. 
"Gregor," I said, "why on earth 
are you people so excited about a 
few malcontents in your country? 
Surely you, as the first or second 
most powerful nation in the world, 
can stand a little criticism from a 
few dissidents who march to a 
different drummer.'' 
"Is personal matter and none of 
your business!" Gregor said sour­
ly. 
"I'm not chiding you, Gregor, 
for your stand," I said. "I'm just 
curious why the full power of the 
state has come dowh with such 
force on a handful of men? Is the 
Communist system so fragile that it 
can't allow one or two people to 
complain about the political condi­
tion in your country?" 
Gregor scowled. "Do you want 
detente or don't you want de­
tente?" 
"Of course, I want detente." 
''Then stop asking me such 
stupid questions." 
"Gregor, that's no way to talk to 
a friend who gave you an entire set 
of blueprints for the EdseL I'm 
trying to understand what makes 
your leaders tick. Why do you keep 
arresting people for speaking out 
for a little more freedom?" 
''There is no such thing as a little 
freedom," Gregor said. "There is 
either freedom or no freedom. 
America wants to destroy us with 
freedom." 
"We do not," I protested. "We 
like you just the way you are. But 
frankly, you're very boring people. 
You keep saying the same thing 
over and over again. It's nice to 
hear a fresh voice from Moscow 
every once in a while, even if he 
doesn't have a following." 
"How do you know he doesn't 
have a following?" 
"I just assumed it." I said. "I ploring if they were not sure of the confidentiality of their disclosures: ambivalent feelings toward par­ents, problem pregnancies, sexual· orientation and behavior, and vio­lations of law or college policy. 
..Suzaune B. Ateson DIF'ector of Counselin2 

the Soviet press, that these people 
are nothing more than maniacs who 
belong in mental institutions. Do 
they really have many supporters 
in your country?" · "We don't know and we're not going to find out,'' Gregor said. 
''Gregor, you sound frightened. 
Do you really believe that a few 
writers and scientists would drive 
you into a free state?" 
"Not a free state--a Capitalist 
state. We don't want any part of 
Capitalism.'' 
"I don't blame you. It's a messy 
system. We have gas shortages, 
coffee at $3 a pound, and you can't 
even find a parking place when you 
want it. But surely Sakharov and 
Ginzburg, and a few others, don't 
have it in their power to make the 
Soviet Union a Capitalist country." 
"Maybe yes--maybe no. But that 
is for us to decide. Just because we 
buy your wheat does not give your 
President an excuse to write to one 
of our traitors." 
"President Carter didn't mean 
any harm. He answers all his mail. 
It's a habit he picked up when he 
was selling peanuts." 
Gregor hit his fist on the table. 
"Well, we. won't stand for it. How 
would you like it if Brezhnev wrote 
to one of your dissidents, Ronald 
Reagan?" 
"I wouldn't mind, but I don't 
think Reagan would like it. He 
might want to run for President in 
1980 and a letter from Brezhnev 
would kill his chances." 
"Why should Americans care 
what we do to our writers and 
scientists?" he shouted at me. 
"That's a good question. Gre­
gor. We shouldn't care but we do. I guess you could call it one of our weaknesses. We hate to see people anywhere locked up for their · thoughts. If you were a Fascist country many of us would feel the 
same way." 
Gregor stared at me. "This is 
your last warning. Stay out of our 
internal affairs, or else." 
I refused to blink. "Don't threat­
en me, Gregor, or I'll get President 
Carter to write Sakharov another 
can't believe, from what I read in letter.''
L-------------------------~ 
----~---------·---­

r 
the o~server Thursday, March 10, 1977. 
r r 
Digger Phelps: Another Round in the Playoffs 
Editors note: As Coach Digger Phelps heads Into another playoff season, he took dme out for this Interview with Features Editor Tim O'Relley. 
Observer: The story that was run alter the San Francisco game noted that you've prayed to Saint Jude, the patron saint of lost causes. Does that Imply that you considered this season a lost cause at some point? 
Phelps: No, It wasn't so much a lost caus<,!_, it's that you're looking to get the most out what you have, and we had gone to mass in one of the chapels, and somebody left a paper. What happened was, I picked it up -this is back early in the season -and I and my secretary run off a few copies. There was a time right after the-nine days prior to the Holy Cross game, we really wanted to get the thing going, and from there, we went well, but lost at West Virginia. So I felt it was time to try it again, just to make sure that we did our best and that's all we're trying to do is get the most of ourselves. You know, every personality has it's own faults and weaknesses but there's certain weaknesses in me that would not make me ashamed to say, yeah, I pray to Saint Jude. And obviously we got an NCAA bid, so I ought to thank Saint Jude. 
Observer: Going Into the' season In October you lost your top-scoring super· star, Adrian Dandey What kind of concept did you have for this team? How did you 
think you could win? 
·Phelps: We just felt we have seven players coming back out ofthe ten that played last year, and a lot of these kids are underrated. When we're healthy, we are as good as anyone in the country. In that one spurt when we lost four games in a row, we lost Ray Martin, and we lose Bruce Flowers for three ofthose games, and it's just a situation where we had to make 
re~~m~. ~~~saili~~
where I think, to end up 21 and 6, it's just unbelievable. It's just been a fantastic year, and we're very happy about it, and here we are in for a fourth straight NCAA playoff. When everyone else thought this was a rebuilding year, we just said, "Hey, we're going to pick up where we left off." and obviously we have. So I think there's guys in this team that have done things to make a contribution that people didn't 
, expect they could do. . Observer: And you feel that the team came very close to playing to Its potendal? Phelps'; Yeah, I think we showed that Saturday, and Monday at Depaul I think the team really showed a lot of poise :and a lot of class. I think the attitude and the togetherness that's on this team has probably been our sixth man. ­Observer: Speaking of another sixth man, the crowd, do you think the team can 
• sustain its Inspired effort _during the USF game, though all the g~es wiD be oil the~road? -­Phelps: I think that's going to be a· part of it. I think we're going to have a lot of support in Philadelphia, and I th nk we're going to have a lot of support in 11. .aryland. As far as tickets go, it's a sham: we can't get more tickets. I'd have to ~ iY that of those who will be there, many w' .I be Notre Dame fans there. even now, thf re's a lot of students who have never travel'ed with us before going to Philadelphia. So every ticket that was availab~e mad_e t1• us _h~re, has been sold. So I thmk Philad ~lphia sa good Notre Dame town, so hopefully 

if you do it once in your lifetime it's really 
an outstanding accomplishment. So 
whenever it happens, I'll take it now and 
worry later about what's going to happen 
after that. 
Observer: You are known as one of the 
most colorful coaches on the sideline. How 
much of that Is you and how much of It Is a , 
calculated effort to try to control the tempo 
of the game? 
Phelps: I think both questions are heading 
in the same direction, and which seems to 
be I just have to be myself. I think that to 
go 27 games without a technical is a 
record. So obviously, I've grown in the 
areas of dealing with the officials and 
crowd control. 
My coaching style has to be what it is. 
And I can only be my own man. I just feel i very comfortable being that person. 
Observer: Many coaches will take a 
technical to get his team going, or employ 
other such tactics. Do y ou try to help the 
officiating with Uttle hints along the way? . 
Phelps: Well, I think everybody baits the 
officials, but you can only bait them to the 
point where you're not going to get hit with 
the technicals. You've got to know when to 
do it and when not to do it. I think this year 
was the year that I just learned when not to 
do it. I have a clean slate as far as technical 
fouls. Yeah, I think it's been a factor. 
Observer: In your coaching style, how 
much would you say Is teaching versus 
=======~===========================:::those rules while you're being recruited, 
Unfailing prayer to St. Jude. 
Say the following prayer 9 days in succession, leaving a copy in church each day. It has never failed to grant a request. 
May the Sacred Heart of Jesus be praised and glorified this ay probation period. So we're getting in that 
direction. And I think that's probably theand forever. St. Jude pray for US, hear my prayers, only.way we're ever going to end all illegal 
_, recruiting.and grant OUr petitions. Observer: Another aspect of NCAA 
;::=====================~============~~~a~~~Q~m,to~~~
college programs. 
they're g~to be rootinll_~r us. _____ coaching, is, of course, recruiting. Are you 
-Ohserver: Coach John Wooden once advised you not to win the championship right away, but to keep them guessing. Have you ever made any attempt at foUowlng that advice? Phelps: Well, I'd love to win it once. 
Maybe then I'll quit. 
I can see the pressure though,. after you win it once. I can see what Indiana went through this year. I can see what John Wooden went through. And once you win your first one, everyone w;mts your second. Then they want your third. I think one of those that absolutely despises It, considers it an evll necessity? Phelps: Well obviously you have to rec~uit in order to be successful each year. I thmk the type of person we have in out program really just typifies the student-athlete that has to be really concerned about whether or not _he can get the job. done ~ere academically as well as athletically. It s a two-way street; we have certain rules ar,td regulations as far as making that commit.­ment, and I think that's healthy.. . . 

I just got back from a recrUitmg trtp yesterday. I get our during the season country today, that's obvious. about three or four times during the season I think that the rules and regulations because I want to make all the practices. themselves should be stiffer. I feel that if a Once the season's over, all we do is youngster in high school reads the rules of recruiting during the months of April and recruiting before he starts his senior year, May, until we've got at least 5 people his parents or his high school coach even, signed. then he should sign an affidavit that he's Observer: Do you do a lot of It personally? read the rules. That goes on file in Phelps: We only have three visits, Kansas City, and if you violate any of 
once you get to that school you lose all your 
eligibility to play, the school goes on probation for four years and· the college coach is actually fired. 
Now, we're getting in that direction, Michigan State is an example. Many football players were penalized, they couldn't play in games this year. One kid couldn't play the whole season. The coach d was fired, and they got a three-year 
coerslon, to get a player to get him to do something? Phelps: I think about 90 per cent of the time in our program is really mechanics of teaching and mechanics of getting the unit to be a real unit, the team effort, offensively and defensively, even though, only really is ten per cent of what you do with the team. Ninety per cent is mental and ten per cent of our time is really needed to produce that. The ten per cent of effort takes longer, and yet the ninety per cent, the mental part of it, sometines takes just five minutes. The daily practice, the preparation we'll have today,_ tomorrow and then one on Friday, that's the ten per cent we're talking about. The rest of it will be just getting them in that locker room, juicing them up, telling them what we're playing for, and why we're playing, and what we have to do to win. That's the mental part. Mental concentration, the emotional concentration, and the intensity about them to get it done. Observer: Do you have any particular tricks that you use for that ninety per cent or the mental part? Phelps: Again, just being myself. Observer: Play It by ear? Phelps; Yeah, it just happens. You know, I'll think about a couple things that you have to do, and just really grow on it for, you know, you give a forty-five minute speech the guys are asleep. You give them a two minute speech and that's it. Observer: Another big aspect of college personal c-ontacts with the youngster, andthe head coach will usually take those three off campus, He's allowed to visit you once, but your assistants can go see him play, go watch them practice and things like that. They keep interest shown in the youngster that we do want him here at Notre Dame. Observer: One Issue that came up at the last NCAA convention was the financial need clause. Phelps: That rule would be the biggest joke around. They wouldn't be able to police it because there would be a lot of cheating going on. 
When people have to fill out a Parents' Confidential Statement you have to process that ~tatement as well as legislate the rules regarding that statement, and it would really lead to a lot of turmoil. I think that a youngster has every right to be com pen-sated for his work just as a chemistry student gets his grant-in-aid, a fellowship, or academic scholarship. Why should an athlete be penalized because his talents are in athletics versus those that are in academics? And I think that's what need to be talked about. 
When they fill the arenas around the country and people pay to see them play, there's nothing wrong with compensating them for that because they are not allowed to work after school. or part time, or having a teacher fellowship working as a lab instructor or whatever you may be in your senior year. They should be compensated because they a're producing revenue for the 
university. They are human beings like anybody else, except there's a talent difference. Yet I think this new factor would iust lead to a lot of confusion and a lot('' violations. Observer: Doyou see anyplace where you would like to refo~ your recruiting system? Phelps: Yeah, I think there should be a budget limit on recruiting. Obviously as lot of schools out west are going to say, "Well, how am I going to get a kid back east?" But, there are many good schools in the Phelps: I think there's nothing wrong with 
that. That's just like competition, and 
that's what this country thrives on. 
It depends on the commitment you want 
to make as a university. I think we at Notre 
Dame make a commitment in both direc­
tions, academically and athletically. The.r 
only thing I disagree with is and I don't 
think a Division One school should have to 
play football and basketball. H they want 
to have eight varsity sports to be Division 
One, fine, of which you must have football 
or basketball. That's the only thing that I 
disagree with. If there's a power r 
conference of SO schools, and they have to 
play against each other, the small schools 
may say, well, it's not fair to us. Well, 
that's a commitment they must make. If 
you don't want to go bit time, you don't 
have to go big time. But why penalize 
those that want to be in that area? AthletiC 
competition is another way of bringing 
revenue into the university, today's prime 
need for university finances. A lot of the · 
other schools like MIT, they get their money in other ways. That's fine, but other institutions, if they are to survive, need athletics to contribute to the universi­ty, and there's nothing wrong with it. It's okay for MIT to go out and raise money in one area. But yet there's a school that ·would vote ag:;tinst anothet school if they want to do it for athletics. So they're inconsistent, and that's what is unfair 
about it. 
Observer: Do you think the big sports 
establishments, almost of professional 
proportions, are ruining an academic atmosphere at a university? Phelps: No, I don't think so. If anything else, I think it's under control, here. Right now, all our budgets are controlled by the university. Any money we get from bowls or basketball goes into the general fund. All our revenues generated end up in .a general fund. Just like development or any of the science programs, anything that's raised by the university goes in one pool. 
Believe me, desoite everything here, 
[~'Ontlnued on page 9J 

Thl!_rsday, March 10, 1977 the observer 9
By Fr. Robert Griffin
Letters to a Lonely God two sides. Each dawn, ~ ~ould get up at bus travel, but that is only the beginning of 
daybreak to see the sun nsmg over the blue his troubles. While basses sweat and HaIfL•IVeS ~tlantic, feeling like a ~agan.priest suckled tenors scream __ in the midst of com~unal 1~ ~ creed outworn; havmg st~ht of Pro~eus confusion --the chaplain, like the lilies of
Surviving how theOther 
rtsmg ?-om the sea, or hearmg old Tnton the field, spins not, neither does he toil; he blow hts wre~thed ho~. only survives. Yet Solomon in all his glory In the evenmg, a friend would come and never had it better. The Glee Oub takes
can be nourished on his daily bread andIf you've never been taken as a guest by burger at McDonald's. (It is truly a matter take me to dinner .at a P?lynes!an good care of their chaplain. Glee Oub, I an American host (him paying) to stay at a 
restaurant, where nattve danctng gtrls never said I didn't love you. 
of budget. They do give me money.)
Swiss hotel, which, you were told, has been would twist their navels in dance while I Tomorrow, the Oub leaves for Texas,If you've never gone to Disneyland, andlisted by Fortune magazine as one of the been condemned by a decision of the Club q~affed rum, and feasted on barbecued Kansas City, Memphis, the Alamo. Unliketen finest hotels in the world; and you only 
pme3:pple .skewere~ on roasted sea~ull and the defenders of the Alamo, the chaplainto stay there en masse for twelve unending had two dollars and some change in your sucklt~g p1~s. Im~gme ~e, the ex-~d from will survive his being there; you canhours, with only a slim book of free tickets, pocket which you needed for meals for the a fishmg village tn Mame, entertamed by depend on it. My hope is: you will survivewhich you end up giving to a kid who cried 
next two days until you finally left Europe from r~yal ~s I
fire-danc~rs the c?urt where you're going, too. I'll pray for yourbecause he had no tickets, then you willand flew home; so that after you had been supped, hke som: Polynestan pnnce wtth a survival and well-being, if you'll pray fornever understand why a middle-agedconducted to your glorious room with many harem to m~ke htm comfortable. The very mine. Take care of yourselves. Remember: cleric, ordinarily fond of Winnie the Poohflourishes, by the manager himself, you thought of tt made the lapsed W.A.S.P. you're somebody 'cause Somebody lovesand Smokey the Bear and Mickey thehid in the bathroom --that old vaudevil­inside of me tremble from the temptation you. If I'm not back by two weeks fromMouse and Bambi and the Velveteenlian's trick--until the bellboy had brought 
Rabbit, has learned to detest the Magic to decadence. . .. Saturday, check the jails, and send money. 
up your luggage, because you couldn't People somettmes ask: What does the If you don't have money credit cards willKingdom the
afford to give him a tip: if you'veneverbeen with same dispassionate 
intensity th_at distant deities Glee Club c~~plain do_?' , do. God bless you! To Tim O'Reiley, Pat 
so humiliated, among the comforts and are said to I answer: He survives. For example, Hanifin Tom O'Neil Dan Sanchez Chrisdespise mortal sins. Four times in my years extravagances of Western civilization in its 
he annually survi~'es fivethousandmiles of Smith, thanks! ' ' with the Glee Club, the group has gone tomost sybaritic flowering, by being so 
i~::::~::::::::::::::::::::~:::::::::::;:;!;!:!:!:!:!;!;!;!:3:!:!;:::::::::::::;::;::::;:;:;:;:;:;:3"::::;;;:;:~;;~;;;:;;····:·:·:·;::·:··········=·=··-;.;.;.;.;.;.;.;.;.;;;;:::;;;;;;;;;;:;;;:.::;;;;;;:·:·:·;·,.
the Disney acres, East and West. Othersnearly flat-broke, then it is obvious you have climbed the Matterhorn and visited
have never been chaplain to the Notre K·Magnificent meals in Michiana By Tim O'Reiley ~l~l: 
the Haunted House; I have stood aroundDame Glee Club on one of their expense­staring at painted plast ·r streets roamedpaid tours across the continents of the by horses that are folic red by men withworld that glitters. If you have never been brooms who clean up, fo 'Jod's sake, after driven in a Cadillac limousine --supplied 
benefactor a those horses the moment they do some­
by a as courtesy to the thing natural.
Director --with air-conditioning and push­As Glee Club Chaplain, I've endlessly 
IA I
de:~:~~~.~~Y~~~rou• VWng.
button windows and a stereophonic radio pressed my face snub-nosed ·against the :;:; making even close objects appear as a While still untying at the pier, appetizers ;:;:that brings in live concerts of the plate glass windows of the world that ::l: shadowy silhouette. The murky waters were loaded onto the table. Shrimp cocktail ::l::Leningrad Symphony direct from Lenin­swings, like a hungry child looking into a :ljl were highlighted only by the white caps ~f ($2.95) an~ clam chowder ($.95.a c,~P) were ;j;j:grad; if you've never been floated in such pastry shop. If you ask me why, I'd :::: small, choppy waves. Yet through thts as refreshtng as the good salt atr. The net;:;:;torsion-suspended comfo~ to the fabulous probably say it's the only way I can do it ;i;: sordid scene, Captain Alexander sailed his worth they add certainly enhances the final ;:;::gambling casinos of Las Vegas, where tens without feeling guilt. I'd be embarrassed ;:::: clipper, a proud ship, unfurling her sails in balance of this meal," entered Mr. ;:;:of thousands of dollars change hands, in 
(at least, a little embarrassed, though ;:;:; defiance of the sordid elements. The Fronczak. ~~·moment-by-moment bets, at the spin of a nothing I couldn't handle) as a cleric with a ;~;~ voyage had been an arduous one, adding a Now it came time to steam into the main;:;:wheel, but your most serious reason for vow of poverty, to be able to regularly ;:::: wrinkle to the brow of even the oldest of course, a pleasure cruise to say the least.;:;:
being at those casinos was to take afford the luxury hotels of Zurich and the ;:;:. salts. But, lo, the craggy cliffs on the south Though the menu has its meat side;:;:advantage of the free lunch of sandwiches gaming tables of Nevada. Yet I identify ;:;: bend ofthe St. Joseph River, gave him (ranging from $5.75-$8.50), the fruits ot;:::and champagne offered to gamblers. If with Tevye as he meditates in the stories of ;~:l a place he could finally call home. Though the sea distinguish the Moonraker from the;:;: you've never gorged yourself on the free Sholem Aleichem: "Where is it written ;:;: he later regretted the decision, he stayed other galleys of South Bend. Mr. Fronczak;:;:hors d'oeuvres of liver pate and caviar, that Tevye must labor in their behalf, must ::;: long enough to build a new landmark for opted for the Sea Food a Ia Newburgh::;~because otherwise you wouldn't have get up before daybreak when God Himself ;:;: the local landlubbers, his Moonraker ($6.50), a veritable shellfish salad or;:::supper; trying hard to look like Jimmy the 
is still asleep, just so that they --the rich ;~;~ restaurant (320 E"'Colfax). galleon-sized hunks of crab, lobster and::;:Greek so that no one will know you're ones --can have a fresh piece of cheese, ;;:; Alas, the good captain couldn't give up shrimp, awash in a flattering Newburgh ;j;~free-loading; if you've never been such a and butter for their breakfast? Where is it :;:; his sea life so easily. He built a myriad of sauce. ''The dividends accrued from this ;:;:moocher at Caesar's Palace and the Sands, written that I must rupture myself for a pot :;:; decks and gangplanks into his restaurant, dish will go a. long way to offsetting the :1:~sitting around in lounges and lobbies, of thin gruel, a loaf of barley bread, while :;:; paneled it with his finest spars · and many debits acquired at the dining hall," ~:::hoping to be grub-staked --let the chips 
fall where they may --by a winner they loll around in their summer houses :;:; mahogany, installed some worthy fixtures, he reported as he eargerly devoured his :;:;: without so much as lifting a hand, and are :;:; and added a classy disco to boot. Special grub. Likewise, my collossal Fried Shrimp :;~
superstitious enough to see your Roman served roast ducks, and the best of knishes :;:; guest gourmet (and long-suffering Obser· ($6.50) lived up to its name in both size and :;:::collar as a lucky omen. If you've never and blintzes? Am I not a man as they are? ;:;: ver accountant) Thomas Fronczak was flavor. With a crust covered with almonds,;:;:come so close, out of motives of hunger, to Would it be a sin, for instance, if Tevye :~:1 moved to remark, "Despite the capital and sharing the plate with rice, were good :i:iletting yourself be picked up by a lady could spend one summer himself in a :;:; costs incurred during construction, this enough to grace the table of Magellan. In :;:;:named Pat (whether named as a noun or a 
datcha somew\lere?" :;:; decor must be entered as a net asset on my addition, a flask of wine accompanies every:;:; verb, I cannot tell), wf;to ran a Wild West 
Besides, it's more fun to do the things :;:; balance sheet." ·dinner, while vegetables are a Ia carte. !;:;
\Show in Deadwood, Kansas, and who only 
bought you a gin and tonic, which you you can't afford to do. How awful it would ::~; Ay, but the menu proved to be the real Despite the bounding portions of the[:~: didn't dare to drink on an empty stomach; be Ol}ly to go to the places you have the :;:; treasure chest of the evening. The crew of entrees, we pulled back into port with :;:;. money for. How dull it would be never to :;:; the Moonraker charted our course, first to ·sail-trimming desserts. Both the Belgian:;~
if you've never been so compromised, then 
have dined at Antoine's, or to have :;:; the salad bar, an array of earth-grown cheesecake and flaming Baked Alaska i;:;
you've never been in the situation of considered the menu at Maxime's. How ~;~; jewels that would have impressed Black~ seduced the palate with their enchanting ~;~;running out of money on the tent<h day of a dreary, like a Kresge's-counter lncheon, it :;;: beard himself. Amidst the cucumbers, flavor, not unlike the Sirens and their;:;:fourteen day tour while travelling with would have been to have missed drinking :;:; radishes, cherry tomatoes, bacon, chopped songs. These dinner-ending pastries ;:;:Notre Dame gentlemen full of glee. 
If you've never recognized as the tea at the Plaza. I would rather go :;:; egg, Caesar's salad, seven dressings, and prompted Mr. Fronczak to say, "Regard-;:;: happiest words heard all day on the bus, window-shopping in Tiffany's than be the ~:;: other fresh delights, Mr. Fronczak mar-less of any final statement, these things ;:;: the announcement of the Club president: 
biggest spender K-Mart ever knew. :;:; veled, "This type of set-up is very taste great." ;:;: "THEY'RE GOING TO FEED US!" -­Last Spring, during semester break with :;:; efficient, providing the management an Finally, an interesting seafood restau-;:;: meaning that kind patrons have inv-ited us the Club, I lived for four days, in a ninth :;:; excellent cost-·benefit ratio." Needless ·to rant has docked in town, one that should ;:;: to dine; then you just simply have never floor room facing the ocean, in a hotel in ~;~; say, the salads served on cold plates and shiver the timbers of Michiana diners. The ;:;: been a poor priest who has not yet learned Ft. Lauderdale. It was a corner room, so ;:;: coupled with the fine breads, would Moonraker should prove a fleet addition to ;:;: to budget his travelling funds so that he that the view cam~ crowding in on me from ;:~. happily sate the appetite of even the most the armada of South Bend restaurants. ;:;: 
"q:;:::::::::::;:::::;:::;:::::;:;:::;:::;:;:::::::;:;:::::::::::::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::;:;:;:;:;:;:::::;:;:::::::::::::::::;:;:::::::;:;:::::::::;:;:::;:::;:;:::;:::::::::::::::::;:::::::::::::::;:::;:::::::? 
Digger Phelps: Another Round in the Playoffs 
[continued from page 8] 
We came here and started this program because you can bulld a home Ufe here? got to get into itand out.You can't go at this we're not a professional organization. in basketball, and we were 6 and 20 that Phelps: Well, you may call it that, but you pace and have a three-week vacation in We're not segregated because we're on first year. For the last five years we've know we're busy. August. It doesn't work that way. I went this side of the street. We do our thing and gone into post-season play, of which the Observer: How much time do you put into skiing back in January for four days. they do their thing. There's no other way last four have been NCAA playoffs. So coaching. on an average day? That's how you have to do it, I think. todo it. That's why you have a lot of we're probably one of the most consistent Phelps: I really don't measure it that way. That's the only way you can survive in inconsistencies in a lot of programs. programs in the country. My day is so flexible, that on some days, today's world. 
That's the greatest thing about Notre Observer: HI remember correctly, you're like last night, we were out with the Observer: When you do get free time, do Dame, everything has its place. Nothing is not considering pros at all. -coaches till about one in the morning you have any favorite outside pursuJts'l bigger than anything else. And football is phelps: That's Right. before we finished. I flew from Chicago Phelps: Yeah, I like to just Jay in the just a part of the university, basketball is Observer: Any reasons? after the ball game yesterday morning at neighbor's pool in the summertime, with a just a part of the university. When it Phelps: Well, pro life is rat race. You play 8:45 to New York, met Coach Nagy, went to six pack and just listen to good music, and comes time for us to do our thing, 'we do it forty games on the road; I hate playing a youngster's home, talked to him and his watch my kids swim, or go away ourselves and do it well. And that's the way it should eleven now on the road. The salaries are family, till about 4 o'clock, went over to and do things with the kids. The kids are 
...I 
be. There is no athletic department out of control, there's no leader.ship as far watch the high school practice until about 6 at that age now where they really grow 011 budget in the university budget. It all as what a coach can do, because he's got o'clock, went ~o a high school game last you, 7,9, 11. So I like to see them when I comes out of one area; that's what is someone else looking over his shoulder. night, in Long Island which ran over till can, I don't spend enough time with them. healthy and that's what makes it success­Control really isn't there. 9:30, finally ate dinner and then went to I read books when I get a chance. Just do ful. Observer: When you do go recruiting, do this bar where these coaches were and just different things, just to get away . for 
We all have to help each other, we all you look for any particular type of player to talked in there till about midnight, went to awhile. Sometimes I can just go for a ride need each other. If we bring a youngster fit a set style of your? bed, got up at 6, jumped a plane to get for an hour, and it's like having a week off, in, if he's inerested in engineering, then Phelps: Believe me, of the top 75 kids this back here, we're in the office at ten thirty, just to get my mind out of everything. we'll have people in the engineering school year in the country, SO we had to throw 11 o'clock we have a staff meeting for Observer: Any predictions for the play­tell about the academic program. And we away for academic reasons. So it leaves abou: dO hour, finished at noon, watched offs? in basketball tell him about the basketball you about 25. You just look for kids that the film of Hofstra, 1 o'clock did Phelps: No, I just think it's going to be a
some program. That's the integration we need can play, then you just make adjustments other things and phome calls, went over side open season. Anybody can win it. I to be successful. once you get them. They must be really mail with my secretary for a half hour, did really feel that, I think it's going to be that 
Oh.erver: Is this balance one of the good students as well, they have to survive dictation, and things like this. So how can type of year. As far. as our own bracket, reasons you've ~ttled into Notre Dame? here academically just as well as on the you count hours, you just do the job. we'll just have to take them as they come. 'Phelps: Yeah, I'm very happy here. I field, or the basketball court. Observer: Do you have any particular Hofstra will be juiced up for us, but I think 
think that the situation here is healthy. Observer: .Do you have any preferred style off-season? we've just got to play our game and worry There's always rumors going to be flying of basketball or just adjusting year to year? Phelps: Yeah, I was out at the country club .'bout that. around. No matter if it concerns profes­Phelps: My style just changes as the talent two days ago. back Sunday and Monday. We're going to have fun. We've sional sports or other college jobs. You changes, that's all. went up to the LaSalle game, went out and earned it, it's a year we're not supposed to always have to leave your life open, and I Obser-Ver: Since you don't like being on played golf. be there and we're there. And the year is just go year by year. the road, do you also like Notre Dame You got to do those things today. You not over as far as we're concerned. 
' ' ~ I ( . •) '-t 1 I ·, ','' tir.r~rf•· .. •~ .. ,.: .T.'.,.,· .'-'-'"'• '-~··:..: ,>• t 
l ·-· 

LYONS ROOKIES WIN 1-H TITLE 
For the second year in a row, the basketball championship would belong to a Lyons Hall team. Unlike last year though, there were two teams from Lyons and both were in the Championship game. The Lyons Rookies [an all-freshman team] advanced to the finals. by defeating Farley while tfie Lyons Bionic Women defeated . previously unbeaten Badin Hall to reach the championship. The championship match was tight, full of good defense and up in the air till the last three minutes. A Betsy Flowers jump shot and two clutch free throws by Beth LaRocca offset a brillant effort by Sharon Sullivan to clinch a 20-18 win for the Rookies. 
... 
Bookstore tourney 

B-ball format outlined 
by Tim Bourret Staff-Students are eligible. All 
Sports Writer rules in regard to varsity athlete 
eligibility are the same as last year 
Today is the birthday of Austin (one varsity B-Baller, 3 varsity Carr, the greatest basketball player football-b-ball limit.) in Notre Dame history, and the To register for Bookstore VI patron saint of the Notre Dame contact me at 3470 or journey to 151 Bookstore Basketball tournament. Morrissey Hall. Someone will be In keeping with tradition, registra­there after 7:00 p.m. every night. tion for the spring classic begins on Registration closes Friday April 1 his birthday. or whenever the 256th team reg­
This year's format will be similar isters. Schedule pickups will be to that of the past. The single announced at a later date. elimination tourney will begin April 13 with 32 first round games. The 

Glee Club, Chapel Choir, band announce spring breal( __tours 
Three of Notre Dame's famed 
musical organizations begin spring 
vacation tours this week as the St. 
Patrick's Day celebrations near. 'The ·concert band travels toNew Orleans and the southeast, the Glee Club to Houston and the southwest, and the Chapel Choir to the east for a tentative March 17 performance in New York's St. Patrick's Church. 
The 60-member band, per­forming the popular Notre Dame marches and songs, Broadway show tunes and operatic overtures, begins its tours this Thursday with a concert in Mother McAuley High School of Oaklawn, Ill. Other appearances will be in Breese, Ill., March ll; Shreveport, La., March 13; New Orleans, march 15; Re­serve, La., arch 16; and a St. Patrick's Day performance March 17 in the Jackson, Miss., City Auditorium. 
The tour continues in Gadsden, 
Ala., march 18; Atlanta, Ga., 
March 19; Cincinnati, March 20; 
Jasper, Ind., March 22, and the 
return to the campus march 23 for 
an 8:15p.m. concert in the Athletic 
and Convocation Center. The band 
will be directed on the tour by 
Robert O'Brien and his associates, 
James Phillips and Rev. George 
Wiskirchen, C.S.C. 

The first Glee Club performance, 
directed by Dr. David lsele, will be 
in Washington, Mo., this Friday. 
The 45-member group will be 
featured on the main float of the St. 
Patrick's Parade in St. Louis the 
following day before atttending a 
citywide party in Kiel Auditorium 
and an evening concert perfor­
mance in the Chase Park Plaza 
Hotel. 

The group travels to Kansas City the following day for a concert in Shawnee Mission. It's on to Dallas and San Antonio for a performance March 16 before a full day of activities scheduled for St. Patrick's Day. Housed in Hous­ton's Shamrock Hilton, the group will present an afternoon concert for patients at St. Joseph's Hospi­tal, a benefit performance for the Hospital Foundation in the ev­ening, and a late evening appear­ance before the Royal Hibernian Society of Houston. 
The Glee Club is scheduled for a concert in Shreveport, La., March 19, and will be the of 
· 

first round will continue until April _ WALT DISNEYPRODUCTIONS' ~ 16 when 64 games will be played all ~1111\1 FRIDAY 
over campus. Action will continue rftfiiil"'lll throughout the week, culminated NO 
by the finals on Sunday April 24. W Weekdays 7:00-9:00-SAT-SUN 12:45-2:45-4:45-7:00-9:10 P.M. The Jocks vs. Girls,. the consolation lt"'ll!irJI!IPI~iilij 
game and a slam dunking contest will also be held that afternoon behind the bookstore. 
There are only a few changes in this year's tournament. For the first time a limit will be placed on the number of teams that can enter. This limit will be set at 256 teams, the exact number that registered last season. It is unfor­tunate that I must do this but 256 is 

HELD OVER 5th WEEK!! 
a perfect number to work with.J=iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii;iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~ 
Directorship of the tournament would become a full time job if I allowed any more than this num­ber. 
Also, I have forced to increase the registration fee to Sl.SO per team (30 cents per player) from last year's one dollar. The An Tostal committe has decided to distri­bute its funds to other areas, so Bookstore Basketball will have to finance itself. 'two years ago director Vince Meconi was given S400 to work with. Last year my allotment was cut to$120. This year it is zero. 
The fee will be used to pay officials, the cost of trophies and printing expenses. . 
Trophies will be awarded to the championship teams, the all-book­store team and to the.MIVP. The tourney's most prolific fouler will be given the "Golden Hatchet Award," and the campus' finest dunk shot artist will be presented the "Dr. J. Award." An award will also be given for the best team name. 
All Notre Dame-SMC Faculty-

Mishawaka Avenue at 30th Telephone 288-8488 
STREISAND KRISTOFFERSON 
Weekdays 7 :00-9:30 Weekends 4 :20-7 ~00-9 :30 Weekdays 9 :30 Weekends 1 •-~~-5 :40-9 :30 
MANSION of the DOOMED 
4 :00~8 :oo 
Christian Brothers Academy and Notre Dame alumni in Memphis on March 20 before traveling to Dan­ville, Til., for a concert March 21, and a 3:30 a.m. return to the campus march 22. 
The club's spring concert at 8:15 
p.m. March 27 in Washington hall will feature French and German madrigals, including Haydn's "Ode to Women," a selection of sea chanties and the traditional Irish segment with "Danny Boy" and the Notre Dame campus songs. 
Specialized acts will include Music from Shenandoah and Pippin shows on Broadway. 
Under the direction of Sue Sied-Martin, the 47-voice Chapel Choir will sing at a series of Masses and vesper services beginning 

uled appearances are at St. 
Raphael's Church, Rockville, Md., 
March 12; ·the National Shrine of 

the Immaculate Conception, Catho­lic University of America and St. Matthew's Cathedral in Washing­, ton D.C., March 13) St. Thomas More Church, Arlington, Va., 
March 14, and the National Cathe­
dral of Washington, March 15.; 
Arrangements for the March 16 and 17 appearances in Philadelphia and New York have not been completed. The group is planning to perform at Cabrini and Rose­mont Colleges, Radnor•; Pa.; Blessed Sacrament cllurch, Greensburgh, Pa., March 18; St. Mary of the Point Church and St. Thomas More, Pittsburgh, ntarch 

Face it ... you've al·  a hang glider but the  wants to go on to Air  
ways wanted to fly!  FIP does include fly·  Force pilot trainin' in  
Most of us remember  ing  lessons  in  light  1ets after graduation. 
that feeling ...and for  aircraft at a civilian·  Air  Force  ROTC  
a  lot of us  it never  ope rated  f I yin g  also  offers  scholar·  
went away.  If you're  school.  The  program  ships...$100 a month  
one  of those, Air  is  an  extra  given  to  allowance... plus it  
Force ROTC can get  those who want to be·  r,ays  for books,  and  
you wingin,. Our  come Air Force pilots  ab fees in addition to  
Flight I nstructaon Pro­ through Air  Force  full tuition. This is all  
gram  (FIP)  is  de­ ROTC.  Taken  during  reserved for the guy 
signed  to  teach  you  the senior year in col·  who wants to get the  
the ba'sics of flight.  lege,  it  is  the  first  hang of Air Force  
We don't do it with  step_for the guy who _f~ying.  

fg~ __ more inf~rmation ~-____ call Capt; Davis at 283 -6635 PutItall together In...Foi'Ce ROTC. . 

Thursday, March 10, 1977 the observer 
Adrian Dantley stands out in NBA 
What does former National Bas­ketball Association stars Willis Reed, Elgin Baylor, Wilt Chamber­lain, Jerry West and Bob Pettit have in common with such current superstars as Kareem Abdul­Jabbar, Wes Unseld and Earl Monroe? 
All were selected "Rookie of the Year" in their freshman NBA seasons. That's an imposing array of talent 
to say the least, and destined to join their ranks before long as the NBA's top rookie of 1976-77 is Buffalo's sensational first year performer, Adrian Dantoley. 
Though selected sixth in last spring's NBA draft, he is by far the cream of an immensely talented crop of NBA rookie standouts that includes among others, Richard Washington of Kansas City, Chica­go's Scott May, John Lucas of Houston, Phoenix's Ron Lee, and Quinn Buckner of Milwaukee. 
"If! were to vote tomorrow, he's be my choice," observed Coach Bill Fitch of Cleveland after watching the former Notre Dame All-Ameri­can score a game high 28 points and grab 11 rebounds in a Buffalo victory over the Cavaliers a few days ago. 
For Dantl~y, it was the type of game he .has come to expect gf _himself after SO NBA contests, and was reminiscent of his many awesome performances at Notre Dame, and even a few years earlier at famed Dematha High School in Hyattsville, Md. 
A 6-5, 210-pounder, the muscu­lar Washington, D.C., native Dantley admits strength and in­stinct have been major factors in his play this season. "Offensive rebounding is one of my better assets because I just seem to have a knack of getting to the ball and knowing when the shot is going to be taken. That way, I'm already in the lane in many cases." Dantley added, "My upper body strength is also better than some of the guys who guard me and that's a big factor, too." 
Dantley has led the Braves in 
offensive rebounding all season 
long and through games of Feb. 22 
had 181, an average of 3.35 per 
contest. Based on the latest NBA 
statistics which included games 
through Feb. 20, John Drew of 
Atlanta was the only other small 
forward in the league with more 
offensive rebounds. Significantly, 
such strong rebounders as Kareem 
Abdul-Jabbar and Bob Lanier had 
only 14 and 13 more offensive 
rebounds than Dantley heading 
into the current week And, Bill 
Walton, the league's. top rebound­
er, has fewer offensive rebounds 
*Observer 
Sports 
NOTICES 

A course of action...Air Force ROTC. If you've got two academic years remaining in school (graduate or undergraduate) look into our AFROTC programs. It's one way of planning for a good future. Get all the details today. Call 283-6635. 
THERE WILL BE NO MASS AND DINNER AT BULLA SHED THIS FRIDAY OR NEXT. NEXT GAT­HERING: MARCH 25. 
Neat, accurate typing of term pa. pers, manuscripts. Call 287-5162. 
Accurate, fast typing. Mrs. Donoho. 232-0746. Hours: 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. 
USED BOOKS. BOOK BARN. I mile north of Notre Dame. 272-5520. 
Will teach you flute in your spare time. Call Beth 8112. 
NEED TYPING? Executary Inc. Professional Typing Service. $.85 a page. 232-0898. 
The Contest Place Training Stables, 342 Ironwood Drive, Niles, Michi· gan, is now accepting applications for year-round boarding. Indoor arena, heated box stalls, grooming, exercise, and Gain Weight or Thoro­Blood feed supplement all available from $90.00 to $125.00. Please, appointment only. 683-4467. 
FOR RENT 

All the comports of home. Summer rental. Furnished, 4 bedrooms, 2 baths. Washer, dryer, nice large yard. All utilities included. Near Jeff-Eddy. $200. 234-1972. 
Three bedroom house for rent unfurnished. Fenced yard. Near Memorial Hospital. Reasonable for married student. Quiet neighbor­hood. Call 232-9128. 
4 bedrooms, living room, dining room, kitchen. Utilities paid. $100 per month. Call Oscar 233-1850. 
Two bedroom house· to rent. Sum­mer and-or school year. 1012 Eddy Street. $120 mo. plus utilities. Call Oddies Harris at 232-8563. 
LOST& FOUND 

Lost: Grey sweatshirt and a Levi jacket at Sr. Men's nigh't Monday. If you picked it up by mistake please call Jim: 287-3975. 
Found: Woman's wristwatch out. side Moreau Hall, SMC. Call 4-4231
' ,. 
Lost: Brown plastic-rimmed glasses, somewhere on campus last Wednes­day. Call Karen at 2110. 
Lost: Blue Goose Down coat from Nickies last Friday nile. If you happened to have picked it up, please call Kevin 1631. 
Lost: Key ring with 3 keys . Room 1024. Call Ray 6842. 
Lost: Lady's gold watch. Could be anywhere. Reward. Call 309(;. 
Lost: At ND-LaSalle game, beige sweater-coal with brown and gray stripe around mid-section. Please return. Call 288-7587. 
Lost: A large sum of money some­
. where between the Ad. building and Farley on Friday. The money is needed fro break. Large reward for anyone finding it. Call Sue 6746. 
Lost: SR-SOA calculator in Engin­eering Auditorium. Reward. Call Frank 1486. 
Lost: Green turquoise liquid silver necklace. If found, please call 4-5337. 
Lost: Silver medal and chain with Leo zodiac sign between ACC and Grace Monday. Please return if found. Holds great sentimental value. Gary 6871. 
Lost: Black key case. If found 7836. 
Will the person who took the green jacket from the gym at the Rock between 2 and 4 p.m. Sunday PLEASE return the bridge that was in the pocket to the Lost & Found Office in the Ad building, the Observer, or call 7928. No questions asked. 
Found: Pair of eyeglasses at W is­consin 'hockey game Fri. nite. Call 8951. 
Lost: At Library Senior Men's Night one blue winter coat. Please call: Dennis 289-6011. 
Lost: Blue down jacket. Call Steve 8771. 
Lost: two Wednesday nite Layout people. Answer to names "Cecelia" and "Karen" Please return. 
WANTED 
Wanted: Married student couple Cone child okay) to live in, and be compan ions to 3 teen-age boys. Room and board in exchange. Would be required to cook family dinner, do light housework and do minor house repairs. Exchange ref­erences. Call 288-1411 or 291-1814. Ask for Joan. 
Need ride to Des Moines area for the weekend of March 11. Call Linda 4·4289. 
YOU WANT A RIDE TO CHICAGO TODAY?? CALL TIM NOW. 1868. 
than Dantley. 
A quick glance at his statistics boggles the mind. The Braves rookie has scored 21 or more points 27 times in 54 games. That total also includes five games of 30 or more points. Topping this latter· category is a career high 39-points against Indiana last Mon­day night. 
A.D. has been on an amazing tear in the last four weeks. In a 
12-game  span,  he  has  led  the  
Braves  in  scoring  eight  times,  
scored  20  or  more  points  on  10  

occasions, and is averaging 24.7 points per game(296 total points) for the period. His play has had a direct effect on the Braves' latest resurgence. 
Overall, Dantley leads the Braves in scoring with a 19.2 average. He has the second best free throw percentage of .814 (Ernie DiGregorio, theleagueleader is ahead of him); is second in field goal percentage at .514 (he's 61 of 108 in the last seven games-.565); is second in rebounding (7.9 per game); leads in offensive rebound­ing with 181, and has averaged the third highest number of minutes played per game (35.5). 
Statistics are only a part of the · Dantley story this season. The enthusiasm and intensity with 

which he plays not only has made him a feared opponent and popular with the Buffalo fans, but continu­ally draws praise from opposing coaches. 
Some of their comments: 
"He's so strong and determined that it's difficult for most small forwards in this league to handle him. He's going to be a great one." -Coach Kevin Loughery after Dantly had scored a game high 30 points against his New York NetsJan. 1. 
"Dantley was exciting. I wanted to go out there and play him myself. We had five different guys on him tonight.'' -Coach Dick Motta of the Washington Bullets, after Dantley's 29 point showing Dec. 17. 
''Adrian Dantley is a great player. He is very physical under the boards and is probably the Braves' best offensive rebounder.'' -Coach Phil Johnson of the Kansas City Kings, after a 19 points, 14 rebounds performance, Dec. 29. 
And, Jerry West, coach of the Los Angeles Lakers has this com­ment: "I don't understand why he wasn't the number one pick in the draft.'' 
Joe Mullaney, who assumed the Braves' coaching reins a little over a week ago made these observa-. 
Fisher captures lnterhall 
The Interhall Basketball Divi­evening loss, Pangborn II came sion I Championship was decided back to soundly defeat Flanner III, Tuesday night as Fisher Hall 56-36. The winners exhibited an emerged from the losers bracket to evenly balanced scoring attack with defeat Zahm Hall46-37 in the Pit at Brown leading the way hitting for the ACC. Fry was the games high 16 points followed by Sauers, scorer as he tallied 18 for Zahm. Sladek and Hahn, all showing eight Miller contributed seven to the points for the evening. For losing cause. The bulk of Fisher's Flanner, Okosky turned in 16 offensive attack came from Bradley points followed by Dornbose with and Knott who hit for 16 and 12 five. Okosky and McCormick were points respectively. both ejected from the game after 
Rebounding from their Sunday accumulating five personal fouls. 
Classified Ads 
Need ride to Detroit Friday after­noon for 1. Call Katie 6781. 
SUPER SUMMER JOB Part-time lifeguard needed to work with three female lifeguards at country club in Memphis Tennessee Must be a male at least six feet tall, a good swimmer, and responsible. Call (90 1l 683-5103 or write P. 0. Box 205 Lyons Hall, for interview. 
Help! Need ride in Cincinnati direc­tion (preferably Oxford). 31 ·South and 1-70 east. Mike 8692. 
I NEED A RIDE TO THE PITTS (PITTSBURGH THAT IS) FOR BREAK. CALL PAT 1639. 
Wanted: Pictures of Monks at US F game. Call Augie 1000. 
Need ride to Cleveland or Akron. Could leave Thursday or Friday . anytime. Call Greg-1639 or 1633. 
Riders wanted to Colorado. Leaving 
Friday, March II. Call 287-1425 Mary or Kate. 
Need ride to Connecticut area (New 
England,  NYC.  N.J.)  Thurs  or  
Friday. Ca ll Gil 8394.  
Urgent:  2  girls  need ride  to  Ft.  

Lauderdale. Call4168 SMC. 
3 girls need ride to Washington. 
D. C. for break. Will split up, share expenses. Call Debbie 7906, Jeannie 7918, Ellen 7874. 
Dayton, anyone? .My sister's pipes have frozen and I have to bring her matches! Can leave Friday after­noon, March 11. Call Maureen 6825 or 1715. 
Wanted: 2 housemates for N D Apt. 1 immediately, the other starting March 11. Call Dave or Steff, 288-4113. 
HELP us get to the. beach!! 2 girls need a ride to Ft. Lauderdale for break. Call 7401 or 3725 
Does anyone have some rope (as in climbing) that I could borrow over break? Will rent if you are stingy. Call Mark 8540. Desperate. 
Riders needed to Chicago. Leaving Thursday. lim 1868. 
Help wanted: Full and part-time retail experience preferred. Apply in-person. Stripe Three Adidas Specialty Store. 100 Center, Misha­waka. 

Riders to Daytona Beach, people to share motel accomodations (on beach, no wierdos). Call Dan 3315. 
Desperate. Need ride to Boston! Please call Patty at 1268. 
FOR SALE 

Stereo recorder Revox Mark IV $275.00. AR turntable with Shure VIS· $95.00. Dynaco FM-3. $75.00. Call 288-1681. 
PERSONALS 

OBSERVER STAFF: TO THOSE "RETIRING"-I'LL MISS YOU! TO THOSE ""TAKING OVER"-I'M LOOKING FORWARD TO WORK­ING WITH AND FOR YOU TO ALL· HAVE A RESTFUL BREAK. LOVE, MOM 
Dear Joe, Happy 22nd birthday! Love, Mary Beth· 
Fred Glotz and the "Gang-Bang. ers" Good luck tonight. Knock 'em all...or...down! You reading red­neck? 
Z, Happy Personal! Z 
Sheila, Gina, Kathy Me., Betsy, Julie, Beth, Michelle, Mary, Mar­sha, Molly, Terry and Kath'y: Re­gardless of what happened last night, it's been a good time this season and I've enjoyed working with you folks. I'll miss it. Take care and good luck in future seasons. Bigger (Gregg) 
And I didn't even mention spow 
Sleepy . 
California Street String Band for hoedowns, parties, dances. Call 288-7732. 
To Larry in 1 E Dillon, I'm head over· heels over your moustache. Call me. 
Kathy, Happy B-day Vujakovich. Love, Faye Raye Plam Beach Sun­day 
Hey Alexis easy on the eggs 
dancing in the moonlight 
D.ear McCandless Bunch" and; Molly, Renee, Laura, Ceccee, "Kingsley", You all made "big number 21" and my return to SMC very special. .. Thank you! Love, Sandy 
...in the box for high-sticking. That was a "schneid" remark. Watch out! You're skating on thin ice! Puck you. • 
Dear Mystery Person, Two can play this game! When I figure you out, you'll get a personal(s) . piece by piece . so you can interpret my· reaction with your own method. 1 hope I drive you crazy wilh sus pense! CH 
tions: "Dantley·is an outstanding basketbal player because he has extraordinary instincts...the guy has great body control. He is different from most players who have exceptional body control the others do their stuff in the air. Not Adrian. He does his thing close to the ground and uses his strength to roll around defenders." 
At Notre Dame Adrian Dantley proved himself a great collegian. At Buffalo he's proving himself a great pro! 
NCAA tix on sale 
If Notre Dame defeats Hofstra College on Saturday, they will advance to the Eastern Regional playoffs which will be held at Cole Field House in College Park, Md., on Thursday, March 17 and Satur­day March 19. 
Students may purchase tickets for these games today from 9 a.m. to noon at the second-floor ticket window of the ACC. Price of the ticket is $20.00 and includes three games; a double header Thursday (3/17) and the Eastern Regional fin als on Saturday (3/19). Students purchasing a ticket will be asked to fill out an application for one ticket which will be mailed to the re­quested address on Monday, March 14. 
If Notre Dame does not advance 
to the Regionals, students may pike 
up their checks at the ticket office 
upon their return from spring 
break. Because of the limited 
supply of tickets, each student may 
purchase only one and must pre­
:~~~~:N~~=~~~:J~:~JP::::::~~:~:::::~:~:::::~:~:::::::~:~:::::· 
Willis Reed, the burly center who captained the New York Knicks' championship teams in 1970 and 1973, Wednesday was named to succeed Red Holzman as coach of the National BAsketball Association team, signing a three­year contract to begin with the 1977-78 season. 
Dear St. John's, Hope your visit to NO was a good time. it was for me! Jim, let's not make the next time be at "The Bell". Pete, hope you recovered. Love. 
Dear O'C, Happy 21st. Don't worry. for your B-day I'll sign my contract. 
Studley.  
Celebrate St. Patrick's  Day early.  
$.25  beer  all  night,  Thursday,  

March 10. 
Feeling depressed? ND·SMC Hot­line 4-4311 open nights. 
Don't forget! NO St. Patrick's Day 
Party at Brother Jim's in sunny Fort 
Lauderdale on March 17. 
ALL NO STUDENTS IN FT. LAU­DERDALE: PARTY AT BIG DAD· DY'S ON COMMERCIAL O.N ST. PAT'S DAY. REMEMBER, NO GRUBS. 
I said 1don't know!! 
Dear Claudia, Happy Birthday from all of those who love you most. Love, Queen's Court 
Help!! We still have not found our butterfly. Was last seen on N D campus Saturday night. Rumor has it the butterfly will soon be in Ft.· Lauderdale. If found, please call 4-4983. Millie & Gertrude 
Mary Jeanne B, Happy Birthday on the 12th. Sorry I couldn't be there but I'm sending a present via Mark. Be patient. Joe 
John, Sorry I missed my own personal. Here's yours. Have a great vacation! Peggy 
It's Shannon's birthday! wish tler a happy 19th. Call 5150. 
Dear Astro, You never get anything on your birthday, so here it is: Happy Birthday. Love, Ben and Gary 
John and Bob, Congratulations win­ners! Don't forget about dinner. You're sweeties for putting up with us. No harm intended. Betsy, Janis, Beverly, Shelly 
Mark Charles, If you can't bring me a Florida lifeguard, a tanned pre­med student would be nice. Laurie Lee 
Need ride riders to Daytona Beach. Call Dan 3315. 
Thomas, Happy 20th birthday from an older woman. Hope you're not slowing down yet. Love always, Bozo 
Today ;, Joann's birthday. Ring her chime at 4 4137 and wish her a happy one. We all love you. HAN· NISAURG 217 218 
-
~ 
Irish icers capture Game One, 5-1 
mine from home,'' laughed Nugent after the game, "This summer, he bet me five dollars I wouldn't score on him." Needless to say, a very gratifying goal for Kevin Nugent. 
For the rest of the period, the Irish pressure continued, save for Eric Strobel's one-on-one rush on net, which Don Jackson took care of by riding him into the boards . 
.A delayed penalty sitUation set up what looked to be the Irish first goal of the second period. After hard slap-shots by Paul Clarke and Clark Hamilton just missed net, Dukie Walsh set up the puck in back of the net for another threat. Finally, Kevin Nugent simply lof­ted the puck toward the net at a seemingly impossible angle, and after the officials whistle had blown, evidently, the puck found its way behind Janaszak. 
Donny~-;' Wizard" Fairholm scored the Irish third goal all by himself, intercepting an intended clearing pass, reversing his tracks, and firing the puck to Janaszak's stick side. 
Clark Hamilton joined the scor­ing spree next, when he directed a Paul Clark slap sho.t by bedazzled net minder Janaszak. Then, finally, the puck saw its way to the other end of the ice for awhile, and John Peterson was again tested with Minnesota on the power play. 
Peterson first stopped a hard slap shot off the stick of defense­man Jim Boo. Later on in the same attack, Phil Verachotta tried to slap it past the log jam that had developed in front of Peterson. 
A steal by Allen Karsnia and some nifty puck ragging by Donny Fairholm ended that penalty situa­tion, but the Gophers struck shortly after for the only goal of the game. 
Defenseman Joe Baker hit a soft slap shot toward Peterson which Joe Michaletti redirected into the strings. With the score 4-1 and the ice broken, Minnesota started up with a little more pressure. Ken Yackel was set up perfectly by Steve Christoff but couldn't capital­ize. Rob McClanahan raced in on goal and was foiled by Peterson, then Michaletti lofted a soft but tricky slap ·shot that Peterson handled, and the threat was over. 
Before the period had ended , Ted Weltzin had proved that when things are going well, everything turns out a winner. With about two minutes left in the period, Roger Bourque followed a face off, cen­tered it quickly to Weltzin, who unloaded a hard lightning-fast, backhand that went between Jana­szek's legs. 
''I think my parents brought me luck," laughed Weltzin, who claims his parents have been in the stands for three of his six goals. 
The third period produced little but penalties, as John Peterson coasted with a six save finale. 
"I don't think we have to worry about not playing with the same intensity tomorrow,'' commented Coach Lefty Smith, "I think that the boys realize that a bad game tomorrow means the end of the season.'' 
Even if Irish fans won't show up, one old face from the past will haunt the ACC tomorrow. Tim Ryan, Notre Dame graudate and broadcaster for NBC television will bring Grand Stand to tomorrow's game. Welcome back, Mr. Ryan. You may just be seeing Notre Dame's best hockey team ever. 

Ryan, Grandstand to view game 
Tim Ryan will bring NBC to campus today for tonight's game against Minnesota. NBC's Grand­stand will film parts of the game, to be aired on March 12, Saturday afternoon. 
Stevenson named 
:·:·:·:·:·:·.·.·.·.·.·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:"':·:·:·:·:·:·:-:!::::::;:;:~·:·:· ...filE:~·ai-k's.tilidasfiss·ue· of The Observer for which Fred Herbst will serve as sports editor. He is being replaced by Paul Stevenson, a junior from Hinsdale. Ill. 
by Gregory Solman Sports Writer 
It would have been a good night for Irish hockey fans to regain confidence in their team. Unfor­tunately, there were few fans there to witness one of the Irish's most convincing victories, a 5-1 rout of the Minnesota Golden Gophers. It was, in the least, an auspicious playoff for the pucksters, who are now four goals up in the total goals series. 
"It was the best hockey we've played, probably since the Michi­gan series," commented a jovial Coach Lefty Smith, "All three of our lines played outstanding hock­ey tonight." 

As has been the case all year long, much of the. outstanding play came from the freshmen on the team. Tonight was no exception, as winger Ted Weltzin opened and closed the night's scoring with his fifth and sixth goals this year. The goals were particularly gratifying from Weltzin's view, being a native of St. Paul. 
The Irish started off melting the ice, and continued on throughout the game, keeping the action penned up in the Minnesota zone. John Peterson was the lonliest guy in town, stopping only 16 shots all night. Meanwhile, at the other end, it was a nightmare for Gopher goalie Steve J anaszak , who was forced to handle 58 Irish drives. 
Janaszak was tested from the outset of the game, when Allen Karsnia slapped a Dukie Walsh rebound at Janaszak who made the kick save, the first in what would be a long night for the entire Gopher defense. 
With Terry Fairholm off for tripping, the Gophers had their best scoring opportunity of the period when Gopher Phil Verachota snapped a quick shot off the face-off that might have taken Peterson by surprise. After that, the Irish penalty killing squad, which played a stellar game, controlled play. Geoff Collier and Jack Brownschidle contributed to the effort by blocking slap shots. 
Minutes later, the action was again in familiar territory. Terry Fairborn, centering the puck from behind the Gopher's goal, flipped a pass through the middle that Don Jackson boomed towards the net. Ted Weltzin, clogging up the middle, redirected the puck into the net for the Irish's first mark. Minutes later, Clark Hamilton and Ke,·in Nugent broke into the zon~ ~. on 1, and after Hamilton fed him a pict.ure-perfect pass, "the Stork" put it into the lower right hand corner, and became five dollars richer in the process. 
"Janaszak is a good .friend of 

by Fred Herbst and 27 games later, the Irish have we did that. The NCAA's will be Sports Editor achieved their goal. fun for us." "For us, the NCAA's are a big The tournament may be fun for 
When Digger Phelps and his reward,'' Phelps remarked. Notre Dame, but it will also be Irish cagers began workouts last "That's what we've played for all challenging. The Irish meet their fall, he made it clear he had one season. The tournament doesn't first challenge this Saturday night goal in mind for his team -to present any added pressure to us, in the Palestra in !Philadelphia as 
receive an NCAA bid. Five months the pressure was to get a bid and thev tackle Hofstra. 
,. ,... 

Irish reach goal; on to NCAA tourney 
Hofstra enters the playoffs with a 23-6 mark, having won the first ever East C,oast Conference championship. Hofstra has won their last nine contests in a row, and 13 of their last 14. 
They boast the nation's individ­ual rebounding leader in 6-9 center John Irving. Irving is currently pulling down 16.4 caroms a tilt and scores at a 14.2 clip. 
But for scoring, Hofstra turns to Rick Laurel, the nation's fifth leading scorer. Laurel, a 6-7 for­ward, scores 30.1 points per game. Besides being a high scorer, he is also a very consistent scorer. laurel has only scored more than 40 points twice this season and has only scored fewe~ than 20 once. He also adds 7.7 rebounds a game. 
Pat Kammerer, 6-8, starts at the 
other forward. Kammerer averages 
8.6 points a battle and 6.2 re­bounds. 
All of Hofstra's forecourt shoots 
better than 50% from the field. 
Kammerer hits 54.8% of his at­
tempts, Laurel 54.2% of his and 
Irving connects on 51.4%. 
· Ken Rood starts at one of the 
backcourt positions. Rood averages 
markers per contest. 
Willie Vickers rounds out the starting lineup for Hofstra at the other guard. While only averaging 
4.9 points a game, he has dished out 105 assists on the season. 
Guard Arnold Coleman and for­
ward Mark Jenkins are the top 
reserves for Hofstra. Of their top 
seven players, all are seniors 
except Jenkins. 
This is the second straight NCAA 
tournament appearance for Hof­
stra. Last year they lost to Conn­
ecticut in the first round 80-78 in 
overtime. 
They defeated Lehigh, Temple 
and LaSalle in the ECC tourney 
after finishing in a tie for first 
during the regular season. They 
were 7-1 in league play for the 
season, including playoff action. 
"We don't know an awful lot 
about Hofstra, but they're in the 
tournament so they mustbea good 
team," Phelps said. "One thing's 
for sure, we can't afford to take 
them lightly." 
Phelps will counter Hofstra with the same starting five that has played most of the season. Duck Williams and Rich Branning will be at the guards, Bruce Flowers at center and Toby Knight and Dave Batton will man the forward spots. Batton, who missed Monday's game with DePaul due an injured thigh, is expected to be at full speed for the encounter. 
Hofstra and Notre Dame have four common opponents. Hofstra lost to both Manhattan and Ver­mont by a point, while the Irish beat the Jaspers by four and the Catamounts by 41.Both teams lost to Villanova by a score of 64-62. Hofstra beat LaSalle twice, once by four and once by 11, while Notre Dame beat the Explorers by 39. 
The winner of the game will meet the winner of the North Carolina ­Purdue game, also to be played Saturday, on Thursday night at College Park, Md. 
The Hofstra -Notre Dame game will follow the Kentucky -Princeton contest. Tip-off for the Irish game is set for8:30 p.m. 









