


--~~-~ ~------------------­

The 
Observer 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's 

Wednesday, March 23, 1977
Vol. XI, No. 23 
Success of the Free University encourages expansion next year 
by Bob Varettoni 

Because of its success this semester, the Free University will be expanded for next year, Charlie Moran, Special Projects Chairman for Student Union told the HPC last night in Sorin Hall. 
"I haven't heard any negative feedback about the Free University. Everything has been running well,'' he reported. 
Moran said the biggest problem for the Free University this semester has been bulk. He noted that 1800 students have been involved in the program since January. 
Since he .expects a greater enrollment next semester, Moran said he has asked the administration for help. As a result, Moran said, the registration process for the Free University will be computerized for next semester. 
Moran asked the hall presidents to encourage more students to sign up as teachers for next semester. He added that students who wish to teach a Free University course should contact him before April 15. 
The HPC also discussed its An Tostal 
plans. At the meeting Keefe Montgomery, 
chairman of the An Tostal Committee, 
announced plans for a "Sleep Out" on 
Friday night, April 22. 
Montgomery said students will be 
invited to sleep out in the quads in tents or 
sleeping bags. 
"The Sleep Out has been OK'd by Dean 
Roemer," Montgomery said, "and secur­
ity will be notified.' 
Montgomery also announced that the 
Mr. Campus contest is scheduled for 
Thursday, April 21, at 10 pm on Sorin 
porch. Montgomery said that those who 
wish to enter the contest should call Dave 
Young (1109). 
Montgomery added that there is almost 
no possibility for a Miss Campus contest. 
The girls' halls, however, will provide the 
judges for the Mr. Campus prize, he said. 
An Tostal co-chairman, 
The Huddle Ice Cream Shop presented a iist of each hall's activities. She added that sign-ups for bookstore basketball must be completed by April 1. 

An Tostal T-shirts are now available, according to Montgomery. He said the shirts cost $3.50, and anyone who is interested in buying one should see their hall president. 
J.P. Russell, president of the HPC, announced that awards will be presented to the HPC all-star inter-hall football team 
continued on page 9 
Bend has broken the snowfall record for the state of Indiana. Sunday night's five-inch snowfall·

South Bend 
the winter's total to 126.9 inches. The du honor was previously held by LaPorte which had 123 
inches of snow the winter of 1962-1963. [Photo by 

breaks the record 
cel~brated its 1st 
Janet Carney] 

Carter faced with Zaire dilemma 
WASHINGTON [AP] -The Carter administration faces a tough for­eign policy decision in dealing with a new request from Zaire for military aid, including ammunition for U.S.-made weapons supplied to the African country in years past. 
The State Department said Mon­day that Zaire, battling an invading force from neighboring Angola, has made "a supplementary request" to the United States for aid. 
Last week the administration authorized shipment to Zaire of two planeloads of "non-lethal" military equipment, including spare plane and truck parts, uniforms and communications gear. The ship­ment was valued at under $2 million, the State Department said. 
Although State Department spokesmen refused to elaborate on the latest request from the African country, it was reported that Zaire is now pressing for ammunitions for U.S.-made rifles, mortars and machine guns, as well as more spare parts. 
There have been indications that the Carter administration is reluc­tant to meet Zaire's military needs and is looking for another way to provide the materiel. President Carter during last fall's campaign criticized the U.S. position as a major world arms supplier. 
One possible method of indirect­ly moving U.S. military supplies into. Z~ire would be to transfer American-madeequipment from a 

Roemer, Price cooperate to eliminate food fights 
by Jake Morrissey Staff Reporter 
The Dean of Students office, in coopera­tion with Notre Dame Food Services, is working toward the elimination of food fights, according to Edmund T. Price, director of food services. 
Acting upon the Food Services request to curb food fights, the Dean's office has initiated a new policy. Students caught instigating or participating in a food fight will be assigned the task of cleaning garbage cans at 7 a.m. on Sundays. They will be assigned to work anywhere from five to 25 hours, depending upon the extent of their involvement. 
Voicing strong dissatisfaction with the food fights, Price commented that they have been occurring for a number of years. They usually occur, Price said, when the students are excited or high-strung, such as the week before exams or after a big game. Price was, however, quick to emphasize that he felt the majority of the students who participated in food fights didn't really realize the full impact of their actions. 
Price mentioned two points he felt were the worst aspects of food fights. The first 
Experiencing its worst winter in 104 years, South 

third country that already has received such aid. Another would be to press France and Belgium to increase their military shipments to the government of President Mobutu Sese Seko in Kinshasa. 
Zaire is battling an estimated 2,000 troops who crossed into its Shaba province, formerly called Katanga, from Angola on March 
10. The invasion force reportedly is comprised of exiled gendarmes driven out of Katanga after an unsuccessful secessionist move­ment in the 1960's. 
Mobutu, who supported the U.S.-based losing side in the Angolan civil war a year ago, is contending the invaders are being 
Pick up photo ID's at Registrar's office 

Notre Dame students who had and required to have their their I.D. photos retaken last pictures retaken for new cards. semester and who have not yet picked up their permanent I.D. According to the Registrar's cards may do so in the Office Office, all the I. D.'s are now of the Registrar from 8 a.m. to in, with the exception of some 12 p.m. and 1 p.m. to 5 p.m., belonging to studentswho re­Monday through Friday. cently lost their old ones. 
Due to various problems in Although the office has noti­film processing and the manu­fied students that their I. D.'s facturing of the I.D. cards, are available, a large number many students were issued of I.D.'s have not yet been temporary I. D.'s last semester claimed. 
is the obvious waste of food; the second is 
the serious effect the food fights have on 
the morale of the dining hall employees. 
"We're a service organization," Price 
said. ''And we employ tremendous 
people. But, unfortunately, the people who 
work in the dining halls are not paid that 
much. We try to instill in them a sense of 
pride in their work, and when food fights 
occur, it takes all the wind out of their 
sails. It's demoralizing. Some of our 
people leave because of it.'' Price also said 
he strongly believes that if the students 
knew the damage they cause, there would 
be no food fights. 
Laurence M. Aronson, North Dining Hall 
manager, agreed with Price. "When the product of a day's work is thrown around the room, it's frustrating," Aronson said. He also emphasized that the dining halls have excellent staffs and that food fights have had some serious side effects, including employee injuries and broken dishes. "I've thought many times of leaving myself, because of the food fights," Aronson said. "Then I tell myself there's just a few that spoil it for others." 
"With the implementation of this pen­
alty," Price concluded, "the food fight will 
hopefully be a thing of the past." 
aided by Cuban troops who fought alongside the Marxist faction in Angola. 
Mobutu's government is to get $30.2 million in U.S. military aid this year and $32.5 million next year, or about half the total aid for all Africa. In 1975, Zaire received only $3.5 million in the U.S. aid. 
Meanwhile, in Dar Es Salaam, Tanzania, on Monday, visiting Cuban President Fidel Castro said "not a single Cuban" was involved in the invasion of southern Zaire. 
"We have nothing to do with it and have not equipped nor trained the forces which are fighting the ruling clique in Zaire," Castro told Tanzanian journalists before de­parting for Mozambique. 



News Briefs 

I=======================National 
Ford keeps dooropen for 1980 
SPOKANE WASH. --Former President Ford is "keeping the door open" to run for President in 1980, says Ron Nessen, who served as Ford's press secretary. 
"I'm sure he'll have more concrete ideas on the subject in a year or two," Nessen told newsmen before a speaking engagement Monday. 
Vineyard threatens secession 
BOSTON •• Martha's Vineyard and Nantucket, wanting to prove their threat to secede from Massachusetts is not an idle publicity ploy, are ready with legislation to sever the commonwealth from its two most famous island communities. 
Islanders are up in arms over a legislative redistricting plan announced earlier this year that would cost them their two seats in the Massachusetts House. 
Nuclear power will meet needs 
MADISON, Ind. -· Nuclear power is better suited for future energy needs than coal, solar energy or wind power, a witness from Public Service Indiana told a federal hearing yesterday on the proposed Marble Hill nuclear generating station. 

f==--===:::::::::::::::::::======::::::International 
Canadian gunman surrenders 
TORONTO •• A Canadian with a sawed-off shotgun who seized a downtown bank and demanded to be flown to Uganda surrendered peacefully late Monday night and released the last four of 16 hostages. Nobody was hurt. The man, Robert Hugh McLagan, 37, told reporters by telephone he was "a fan" of President Idi Amin and wanted to join his army. But a radio reporter who got into the bank said the man told him he wanted to kill Amin. 

~---On Campus Today----~ 
8:30am ­

9-11:15 am to 1-3 pm • 
1:Z:15 pm ­
12:15 pm • 
2-4 pm ­
3:25 pm ­
3:30pm • 
3:30pm­
3:30pm­
4:15 pm • 

7, 9, 11 pm. 7:30pm. 
6:30pm­7:30pm • 
8 pm ­
8 pm­
8 pm -workshop, interview skills we rkshop sponsored by student affairs, holy cross, c; mpus ministry. 
8:15 pm -concert, notre dame concert band, ace, no admission charge. 
colloquium, land of israel series by prof. arnold band, memorial lib., rare books readmg room. 
blood station, volunteers at infirmary from zahm and badin halls. 
mass, celebrated by fr. griffin, Iafortune ballroom. 
seminar, "central nervous system disease of chronic theiler's virus infection" by dr. howard I. lipton, asst. prof., dept. of neurology, northwestern univ. med school, sponsored by the dept of microbiology, galvin aud., room 278. 
tax assistance program, free, nd accounting stu­dents, Iafortune ballroom. 
lecture, "what are population balances? do we need them?", by dr. ramkrishna, prof. of chem, eng., purdue univ., sponsored by chem. eng dept., chem. eng. bled., room 269. 
seminar, "combustion for large activation energy", by prof. geoffrey ludford, dept. of theoretics and applied mechanics, cornell univ., sponsored by aerospace and mechanical dept., eng. bldg., room 303. 
seminar, materials science seminar. "Materials for fusion reactors", by dr. richard mattas, material science div., argonne national lab., sponsored by chem. eng. dept., chem. eng. bldg., room 5. 
coffeehouse, cap coffeehouse with discussion by prof. fitzsimmons dept. of history, all members welcome, grace hall penthouse. 
reading, really good fiction series with elaine gottlieb of iusb, sponsored by english dept., library, rare book reading room. 
film, sleeper, sponsored by dept. of civil eng., eng. aud., admission $1. 
american scene series, "ethics in business" by chester s. giermak, president, eriez magnetics inc., carrol hall. 
meeting, sailing club, eng, bldg., room 201. 
meeting, south bend alumnae of st. mary's stapleton lounge. 
lecture, "the world crisis of law", by stuart I. han non, former foreign serv. officer and consultant on international ecom., and communication pro­blems, sponsored by institute for international studies, library lounge. 
film, "cool hand luke", spnnsored by lemans hall, sine clubhouse, admission Sl' cents. 10:30 pm ­

Carter's election changes 



Leaders consider proposals-

by Donald M. Rothberg AP PoUtical Writer 
WASHINGTON [AP] -Democra­tic congressional leaders say they will try to enact President Carter's proposals for election law changes before the 1978 House and Senate campaigns get under ~ay. 
Sen. Alan Cranston (D-Calif.), assistant Senate majority leader, said yesterday he thought the proposals for public financing of congressional campaigns and for easing voter registration require­ments would be enacted into law this year. 
House Speaker Thomas .t'. O'Neill (D-Mass.), said, "We'll work to the utmost" to get the voter registraton proposal enacted quickly. 
And Sen. Birch Bayh (D-Ind.), said he now believes his proposed constitutional amendment to elimi­nate the Electoral College and provide for direct election of presi­dents could be ratified before the 1980 presidential election. 
The proposals sent to Congress by Carter received a mixed recep­tion from Republicans. Most are expected to line up in opposition to public financing of congressional elections. They also would oppose amending the Hatch Act to permit greater participation by federal employes in partisan politics. 
Sen. Howard H. Baker Jr. (R-Tenn.), the Senate minority leader, told reporters, "I favor the abolition of the Electoral College .. .I do not favor federal financing." 
He also said he was reserving judgment on Carter's proposals to 
*The Observer 
Night Editor: John Calcutt 
Asst. Night Editors: Frank 
Kebe, Jack D' Aurora 
Layout Staff: We wish that we 
had one because we get sleepy 
when we stay up past our 
bedtime!  
Editorial  Layout:  Drew  J .  
Bauer  
Features  Layout:  Dave  0'­ 

Keefe 
Sports Layout: Paul Steven­
son typists: Kathy Egbert, Anne Giere, Marianne Corr 
Early Morning Typist: Karen Chiames 
Day Editor: Chris Datzman 
Copy Reader: Joan Fremeau Photogapher: Janet Carney 
The Observer is pubic shed Monday through Friday and weekly durmg the summer session. except during the exam and vacation periods The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and St Mary's College Subscriptions may be purchased for $20 per year ($10 per semester) from The Ob\er­ver, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 4&55& Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press All reproduction rights are reserved 
The Observer is looking for some fast moving people to work in ad sales and service next year 
Excellent sales experience and a healthy commission are offered 

·-< ~ ---­
stop by the Observer office (3rd floor Lafortune) 
encourage greater voter registra­tion. 
Baker's House conterpart, Kep. John Rhodes of Arizona, said he thought the voter registration pro­posals would pass the House by a substantial margin "with a lot of Republican support." 
The key voter registration pro­posal by Carter would allow per­sons eligible to vote in state elections to register for any federal election the day they go to the polls to vote. 
The proposal could only apply to federal elections, but Carter called for encouraging states to enact similar laws for state races. 
Carter's message to Congress noted that five states already permit election day regis_tration of 
Teach A Free University Course!!! 
We are looking for anyone 
interested in teaching about their favorite interest · 
hobby, etc., for the Fall Semester 1977. 
Virtually any topic acceptable. 
Call 283-7747 today!!! 
" •••absomingly written •••inspirational..." -Today's Parish 
Fully




Alive 
By William Toohey 
In his latest book, Fr. Toohey, of Notre Dame'~ Campus Ministry, speaks to youth (and anyon~ ~ else who will listen) about making decisions for 1n . integrated Christian life. He calls for involvemant in the real world of today, for service in a spirit of Christian love. 
'J 
IDEAL FOR LENTEN READING 
voters and "the record shows that it has usually increased voter participation without increasing voter fraud." _ 
The Carter proposals drew sup­port from the League of Women Voters and from Common Cause, a self-styled citizens group. 
The league said abolishing the,... Electoral College was ''long over­due" and the universal registration "will go a long way to breaking through the administrative obsta­cles which now keep many voters away from the polls." 
Common Cause said public financing of congressional races "is the only way to do it" and said Carter's support "made an enor­mous contribution to the battle" to gain such financing. 

9-11 pm. nazz, nd second JazT mmbo, nazz, admission free. to fill out an application -'1ct;oilil"•:it;-."~-.;-;---::::--::--; -:--:-;----:--~ ::~ -;:-: =~ ~~­
---..'.. 
. ..~.......i.•.,.•..•..•.•.•l'l'l'l''i'i"l''i'i'l'····-~~·-··--·-~----··i········~---········i·~~....................... 
Public concern grows over scientific research 

by Marian Ulicny Senior Staff Reporter 
Society's growing disenchant­ment with science has prompted citizens to suspect current scientific research, according to Harvey Bender ,geneticist and professor of biology at Notre Dame. 
Bender recently discussed "Ge­netics and Society" in four lectures during a special program at Mary­land College in Tennessee. He focused on the confrontations be­tween scientific advancement and the public concern. 
Bender traced the recent trend in society's outlook toward science. "In the early 60's, scientists had achieved a status in society that was really unprecedented,'' Bender noted. The Sputnik years were characterized by readily avail­able resources and widespread support for scientific research. 
Public disenchantment with sci­ence began during the Johnson administration and peaked during Nixon's presidency, according to Bender. "Society expected that all ills -overpopulation, famine, dis­ease -would be resolvable under the influences of advancing sci­ence," he stated. "In the late 60's, however, man still had problems, and science even seemed to contri­bute to them.'' Medical innovac tions prolonged lives and de­creased infant mortality to add to the growing population. In addi­tion, science was blamed for soph­isticated warfare techniques and pollution. 
"Consequently, public support turned to distrust,'' Bender stated. "In addition, the more scientists specialized, they developed a ten­dency to talk only to each other." 
Bender stressed the need for scientists to inform the public of their research in order to sustain support. "There's been too much speaking at, too much talking down, and not enough of an ~xchange of information," he commented. 

· f Athletic and Convocation Center f
Carter not to curb his criticism 
WASHINGTON [AP] -President Carter told congressional leaders today he does not intend to curb his criticism of human rights violations abroad despite sharp negative re­action from Soviet leader Leonid I. Brezhnev. 
Sen. Alan Cranston, D-Calif. who attended a White House breakfast, told reparters later that the President told the congress­ional leaders. "he is concerned he must do this, he will do this.'' 
Cranston also quoted Carter as saying "some people are con­cerned everytime Brezhnev sneezes." 
The Senator said the President appeared particularly distressed by criticism from liberals about his 
Law school elects officers 
The Law School student body elected new Student Bar Associa­tion on March 2, 1977. 
The new SBA officers are George Adelo, president; Jenny Ullman, vice president; Ray Dalton, trea­surer; and Rosemary Gill, secre­tary. The present second yeaT class elected Kathy Kelly, Tom Hert, .and Susan Tate Dwyer as class representatives. The present first year class elected Ann Dillon Dalton, Frank Sabatino, and Ray 
Marvar as representatives. 
This new-administration will serw.LU\tU.Mom;h J. J978~, •• _. 
outspoken  positions  on  human  
rights.  
In  a  speech  to  a  trade  union  
congress in  Moscow  on  Monday,  

Brezhnev referred to Carter state­ments in support of Soviet dissi­dents as interference in our inter­nal affairs." 
Tne Soviet Communist party chief said, "Washington's claims to teach others how to live cannot be accepted by any sovereign state, not to mention the fact that neither 
Notre Dame-St. Mary's Theatre Second Scene will present Clarence Darrow, A One-Man Play on March 24 at 8 p.m. in Washington Hall. 
Additional performances wiii be given on March 25 and 26. Admission is free and tickets may be obtained at the door. 
Clarence Darrow, A One-Man Play is a visit with the early tweritiet~-century barrister who became the most famous defense lawyer of all time. Beginning with 
the Debs murder conspiracy trial, the character Darrow recalls and re-enacts ~lis most famous cases, including t''e Scopes monkey trial 
and the Loe•>-Leopold murder. 
But it is rot only the notoriety of his profes~ .onal life that makes the play wou. Looming over the courtroom set and the whole of the law system itself is the character of Darrow, the man. From his strong 

According to Bender, it should be possible for the theoretical physicist, as well as any scientist, to generally explain the signifi­cance of his work to the public. However, a problem arises in the "Serious · educational deficit r­elating to a lack of scientific 
knowledge  on  the  part  of  the  
public,'' he admitted.  
"The  educational  systems  are  

deficient, resulting in the early termination of scientific training in high schoois and colleges,'' Bender stated. 
An informed public should be involved with science in order to arrive at intelligent decisions re­garding current issues, such as the 
recombinant DNA studies, Bender continued. 
·The controversial DNA research nvolves the isolation of genetic material and its subsequent inser­tion-into bacteria. Such studies were the focus of attention in early February when a New Times article erroneously listed Notre Dame as one site of recombinant DNA experiments. 
According to Bender, such ·scare tactics draw attention to science but weaken communications be­tween scientists and the public. "Journalists, in terms of biology, too often use the sensational and associate it with high risk and doomsday prophecies," he added. 
Almost everything is a cost­benefit situation, Bender com­mented. Recombinant DNA re­search is different only because it both risks and potential benefits are largely speculative. 
"The information that we don't have exceeds that which we do; therefore, the rationale is to pro­ceed cautiously," he stated. 
Hender discussed the pros and cons of gov-ernment regulation of DNA research. He achknowledged the possibility that research limita­tions in one area could extend to others. ''On the other hand, recombinant DNA results affect a 
worldwide community, and a series of guidelines will catalyze smooth 
: SPRING CONCERT 
relations betWeen individuals," he continued, · 
IWednesday, March 23 8:15 p.m. ~ 
f
t
the situation in the United States 
!tself. nor u.s. ~ctio!ls ~nd p~licies I 
m the world gtve JUStification to .4... suchclaims,
"I will repeat again: we will not 
University of Notre Dame ' 
. f.
Admission Free 1 

ND-SMC theater to present Clarence Darrow, March 24 
N.D. 2nd JAZZ COMBO 

tolerate i'nterfeience in our internal affairs by anyone, under any pretext;" 
Brezhnev's remarks came just six days before Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance is scheduled to arrive in· Moscow for talks with Soviet leaders. 

sex and marriage he was a man 
'with insight far beyond the histori­cal period in which he lived. 
Daniel Daily, a senior theatre major,· will .be playing the role of Clarence Darrow. Last seen in the ND-SMC Theatre's production of Heartbreak House last fall, Daily has played a variety of characters 
during the la:st four years. He is performing Clarence Darrow as a special senior project in characteri­zation. 
Reginald Bain, the production's director, has given the play a 
different interpretation than did John Houseman when he directed Clarence Darrow with Henry Fonda three years ago. Bain sees the play in the context of Clarence Darrow coming to the hall to give a lecture. After a few moments Darrow puts aside the lectern and begins to use the whole stage to make his points 
Scientists, themselves, are the prime regulators because they know best what is. happening in their laboratories, Bender stated. The scientific community was the first to debate whether recombi­nant DNA studies should continue. 
"I would hope that scientific responsibility would take its know­ledge and use it to develop appro­priate safeguards," he added. 
Bender described recombinant DNA research as • 'the most exciting breakthrough in this century,'' with the potential to cure disease and expand crop development. 
"My big hope for the future is to 
have a broadly-educated society," 
he continued. "A wh~l~ new g~nre o( scientific writers is needed to fight the · temptation to raise gloomy specters to which the people respond in fear." 
Bender served as co-chairman of the Developmental Genetics sec­tion at the 20th annual meeting of drosophila geneticists at the Uni­versity of California-San Diego on March 4-6. He is currently a member of the Yale University: Task Force on Genetics and Repro­duction and served as a visiting professor of human genetics re­search in the Yale University Medical and Law Schools during the 1973-74 academic year. He received his Ph.D. in genetics at Northwestern _l!~ive_rsity in 1959. 

..~._....,.._._,..-J!.,._.,.~n,-...~~----·--'111,_•~~.. 
WOODY ALLEN in 


SLEEPER 
Tuesday & Wednesday 7,9, llpm. 
Engineering Auditorium 

Sponsored by $1.00 American Society of Civil Engineers 
,.~--~ ----------­



KEN'S DEN 

HAIR STYLING-­MEN & WOMEN ACROSS FROM 1 00 CENTER (LINCOLNWAY WEST IN MISHAWAKA) 
PHONE 255-6500 
APPOINTMENTS PREFERRED 



fNotreoameconcert-e&nciJ 
I 

Thurs. March 24 9-llpm 
BILLY HASSEL and CHRIS NEMETH 

Fri. March 25 · 9-12pm 
N.D. 1st JAZZ COMBO 

Sat. March 26 9-12pm 
JULES THOMPSON (Impersonator/Pianist) 
Admission Free to all shows. 

huroanitadan stan.d to hi_s views on and relive his ew,eriences. .-.lliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii&l
•.~• ...•.:.•.A•.-.,•,.·~-tt'l1.1#"4.,l-: ·""~-.~*:.~I.J'.,.«JJ ...:j.;, ~ ... ~.-";.·~~..:t..t..r'U.l~·W..·~~·..~··.•·t.···.~~.~.~~~·~··,~·~·~;_.~.: .\~~~· :·~·:· ,..f:t..( ..:-i~ :".,:...~.·~·tt·~:·~~.: ..··· ~ 
Wednesday, March 23, 1977
the observer 

•
MIA puzzle unfolds 1n Southeast Asia 
WASHINGI'ON [AP] --The"24th 
man" is commg hom~. 
Some day soon his remains will 
be disinterred from a Vietnamese 
grave marked with the" name of 
another man. And one more piece 
will fall into place in the puzzle of 
the more than 2,500 Americans 
unaccounted for in Vietnam. 
The presidential commission on 
MIAs revealed yesterday that in 
addition to the remains of 12 
Americans already turned over 
during its trip to Vietnam, Hanoi 
promises to send back two more. 
One is Tucker Gouggleman, 61, a 
former CIA operative who was 
living in re~ment in Bangkok 
when the Saigon regime began to 
fall. According to U.S. officials, 
Gougglemanreturned to Saigon to 
rescue an adopted child but was 
reportedly arrested after the city's 
fall and he died in June 1976. 
The other is the "24th man'' -an 
unidentified airman. 
He was known by U.S. officials 
as the "24th man" for the past four years because he was the one American left behind in Hanoi's . Van Dien Cemetery in March 1974 when the remains of 23 others in 
the cemetery .vere returned. 
American members of a joint inspection team carrying out the Paris peace accords were taken to the cemetery in May 1973 by the North Vietnamese. The North Viet­namese pointed out 24 graves, arranged in four rows of six each, and told the U.S. officials that Americans were buried there. 
Ten months later, the North Vietnamese turned over the re­mains of 23 Americans. However, the 24th remained behind. 
His simple grave was the last mound in the last row of American graves in the tree-bordered ceme­tery. The small granite marker read "Nguyen Van Ry", following the Vietnamese practice of giving all American graves Vietnamese names "to avert destruction by the local population,'' according Ito Vietnamese officials. 
Hanoi officials said the remains of the other 23 could be returned because they had died in captivity, and Vietnam had agreed to· return all such Americans. 
But the 24th man had died in the crash of his B52 bomber during the Christmas raids on Hanoi in 1972 and therefore was noteligible. So photographs of the grassy mound were placed in the voiuminous missing-in-actionfiles of the U.S. Defense Department, and the 24th man stayed behind. 

Then came the presidential commission to Vietnam last week, and Hanoi's release of the remains of 12 Americans whose deaths they had confirmed last September. 
When the 12 black caskets, collected from other Hanoi-area' cemeteries, were handed over at the Van Dien Cemetery last Friday, Rep. G.V. Montgomery and Roger Shields, a Pentagon consultant on missing Americans, both asked, "What about the 24th man?" 
Vietnamese officials at the ce­metery seemed startled. "But he's just 100 feet away," said Shields, pointing across the rows of mounds marked with the names of scores of Vietnamese who had died in the Christman bombing of Hanoi. 
The Vietnamese conferred for a while, and then said that for "hygenic" reasons he could not be moved. The Americans moved away deeply disappointed. 
That night after a convivial dinner hasted be commission chairman Leonard Woodcock, his 
Carter does not fear debate 
WASHINGTON [AP] • The White House said Tuesday, in the wake of sharp criticism from Soviet leader Leonid Brezhnev, that the Carter adminstration did not ''fear open debate" over U.S. -Soviet differences. 
At the same time, White House Press Secretary Jody Powell said that "serious and constructive negotiations" between the two countries to reduce the arms race remained possible. 
Brezhnev, speaking in Moscow Monday, described Carter's past statements in support of Soviet dissidents as "interfering in our internal affairs." 
_ Carter told congresstonalleaders at a White House meeting Tuesday that he would not curb his criti­cism. Sen. Alan Cranston, D­Calif., quoted Carter as saying "some people are concerned every­time Brezhnev sneezes." 
Powell, reading from a statement at a White House briefing, said "we do not fear open debate on the principles which govern our respec­tive societies before the court of world opinion. Indeed we do not object to the Soviet comments on differences within our own country. 
"But we frankly state that for our own part we will not allow this open and healthy debate to stand in the way of our strong and publicly expressed desire to negotiate ser­iously and in good faith to reduce the burden of the arnis race on the 

Pathologist reveals treatment proDiems 
iNDIANAPOUS [APJ • an the face of stiff questioning Tuesday night, a cancer pathologist portrait­ed patients, who foresake tradition methods of treatment in favor of laetrile, as being duped into believ­ing that it is responsible for slower acting treatments. 
Dr. Edwin E. Pontius, director of sugical patholoy at Methodist Hos­pital here, told the Senate Public Health, Welfare and Aging Com­mittee that the success of chemo­therapy is often delayed. 
"Some cancer patients may un­wisely seek a miracle drug such as laetrile and then credit the quakery of those who supplied it for the slow to appear benefits of more traditional treatment,'' he said. 
The Senate committee held pub­lic testimony for opponents of HB1405, which would legalize the use of laetrile as a cancer treatment in the state. 
The substance, also known as vitamin B-17 and amygdalin, has been banned in this country by the Food and Drug Administration. It is currently used to treat cancer in 27 foreign countries, including Mexico. 
Sen. Joan Gubbins, R-Indianapo­lis, asked Pontius what, if any, monetary effect the legalization of laterile would have on his practice. Pontius said he would not lose money from its legalization. "The monetary effect would be on the people who produce the drug," he said. 
The opponents, mostly doctors, said the true danger of laetrile is that it might induce cancer victims to foresake traditional modes of treatment in favor of laetrile. 

Fr. Hesburgh explores future education problems 
Higher education in tne year 2000 will challenge world citizens tc find global solutions to problems suc•l as human rights, energy, and development, according to Fr. Theodore Hesburgh ,University pre­sident 
Writing in Change Magazine's book, The Third Century, Res­burgh predicts a world character­ize9 by interdependent social, eco­nomic and political arrangements instead of the independence of nation state. "No longer," he writes, "can the affluent and powerful view the world as if everything important runs on a line between New York, London, Paris, Moscow, Peking and Tokyo. Better than two-thirds of humanity lives well south of that line, and it is their earth, too." 
One of 26 prominent Americans asked to speculate on the educa­tional future, Hesburgh cited three other aspects of higher education in the next milennial year. He pre­deicted a swing back to a balancing concern for quality after a neces­sary stress on equality of educa­tional opportunity, and emphasis on learning as correlative with life, and a st1 '!ngthening of education's role in thr identification and incul­cation of ·aloes which provide the bedrok ff r civilized society. 
Other writers in the book include David Riesman, Clark Kerr, Alan Pifer, Harold Howe II, Rev. Paul C. Reinert and Congressman Albert Quic. 

American and the Soviet people, and to reverse the threat of nuclear destruction that now endangers all the people of the world,'' he said. 
Brezhnev, in his speech, said, "Washington's claims to teach others how to live · cannot be accepted by any sovereign state, not to mention the fact that neither the situation in the United States itself, nor u.s. actions and policies in the world give justification to such claims. "I will ·repeat again, we will not tolerate interference in our internal affairs by anyone, under any pretext.'' · His speech was given six days before Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance is schedul­ed to arrive in Moscow for talks with Soviet leaders. 
Powell said he saw ·"absolutely no reason to change our view that serious and contructive negotia­tions are still possible" when Vance arrives in Moscow. 
• He said he did not know whether Vance would meet with Brezhnev. 
Applications available 
Applications for 1977-78 Student Government cabinet. positions can be picked up from the Student · Government secretary on the se­cond floor in LaFortune Thursday and Friday. Applications are to be submitted no later than 4:30 Mon­
day afternoon. 
Chess club sponsors match 
The South Bend Chess Club will 
sponsor a 25-board match against 
Notre Dame students at the South 
Bend Public Library at 7 p.m. Wed nesday, March 23. The match wtll determine possessiosn of the Donald Brooks Memorial Cup. 
Any student wishing to partici­
pate or watch can get a ride to the 
library from the circle at 6:30 p.m. 
For further information call 
234-9646. 
Tully announces class election 
Rob Tully, Senior Class Presi­
dent announces class election 
schedule for the 1977-78 school 
year. 
Campaigns will begin at 5 p.m. Thursday and last until midnight on 
Monday. Elections will be held 
Tueiday, March 29 in each hall. A 
runoff election will be held Thurs­
day, March 31. 
Petitions are now available and 
will be due Thursday, March 24, at 
5 p.m. · negotiating counterpart, Deputy Foreign Minister Phan Hien, asked to meet privately with him. 
Phan Hien informed Woodcock of the death of Gouggleman, and also told him, "We have further checked on the 24th man and you will get that set of remains at the same time and in the near ,future." 
The mystery of the 24th man's identity will be solved when the remains are finally shipped to a military laboratory in Hawaii for positive identification. Morethan a dozen missing American B52 crew­men could be the "24th man". 
American officials expect other 

U.S. missing to turn up in due time 
in the same tortuous way. There is Cmdr. Ron Dodge, a 
U.S. Navy flier whose photograph taken in Hanoi surrounded by armed ~uards appeared in a Pari" magazine. He· has never been accounted for. 
And there are others, numbering at least in the dozens, whom U.S. officials have similarly identified and whose remains can be expect­ed to surface if the presidential commission was as successful as it says it was. 
Not all the commission members are pleased with the process, ''but if anyone can show me a better way to finally account for the missing then I'd like to hear it," said Montgomery, who has spent two years investigating the situation. 
Shields who has been dealing with the issue for six years said, "I can only hope that the start the commission made will be followed up as planned by meetings in Hanoi, so that we can finally settlet"'" thinP." 
SURE! OUR VAWES•ARE DIFFF.RENT!! most people value: we value: 
getting power giving service to others getting money giving love to God getting pleasure a.­
~lving active concem to 
getting ahead the poor giving a good education to today' s youth .And because of what we value our Hves have become JOYFUL! PEACEFUL! MEANING~. How about your life? we have become Brothers, What do' you value? members of a Roman Catholic How do you shew it? Rellgious Community. We are mE CHRISTIAN BROmERS Write and let me know what you think. )f you find that your values are similar to ours, maybe you should be with us. WHAT ARE YOU WArnNG FOR? ·Brother Lawrence Porretta FSC Director of Vocations 1840 S. M ayfalr Westchester, m. 60153. 


SPEED READING COURSE 

TO BE TAUGHT IN 
ELKHART/SOUTH BEND 
The United States Reading Lab is offerir6 their famous speed reading course to a limited number of qualified people here in the Elkhart/South Bend area. The average person who completes this course can read 10 times faster, and with substantially improved comprehension and better concentration. 
This famous course has taught many thousands of people to read over 1000 words per minute with the ability to understand and retain what they have read much more effectively. Average graduates can read most novels in less than one hour. 
For complete details about this famous speed reading course, be sure to attend one of the free one hour orientation lectures that have been scheduled. These lectures are open to the public, above age 13 (persons under 18 should be accompanied by a parent, if possible) and the course will be explained in complete detail, including class schedules, instruction procedures and a tuition that is much less than similiar courses. 
These meetings wil( be held in Elkart at the Y.M.Y.W.C.A. Complex, 200 East Jackson on Wednesday, March 23 at 6:30p.m. and again at 8:30p.m., Thursday, March 24 at 6:30p.m. and again at 8:30p.m., Friday, March 25 at 6:30p.m. and again at 8:30p.m., Saturday, March 26 at 10:30 a.m. and again at 1:30 p.m .. Monday. March 28 at 6:30p.m. and again at 8:30p.m. South Bend meetings will be held in Madeleva Classroom Building. Room 247, at St. Mary's College on Wednesday. March 23 at 6:30p.m. and again at 8:30p.m .. Thursday. March 24 at 6:30p.m. and again at 8:30p.m. Friday, March 25 at 6:30 p.m. and again at 8:30 p.m. and TWO FINAL MEETINGS on Saturday. March 26 at 10:30 a.m. and again at I :30 p.m. and Monday. March 28 at 6:30 p.m. and again at 8:30 p.m. 
Classes arc limitC'd and class places will be tilled on tirst come-first serve basis O!llv. Re SUIT to attend the C'arliest meeting possible to insure a L'las~ plan·. (;roup rates arc availahll' upn;1 rcq ucst. 



Wednesday, March 23, 1977 the observer 

It finally comes down to commitment. 
When you don't like a course, it's hard to excel. The class gets tedious. The texts get boring. The lectures get dreadful. Your work suffers. And so do your grades. 
Compare that with the courses you really believe in. You care more. You try more. And without even noticing, you just nanrrally do better. · 
It's true in school. It's true outside of school. 
For example, we believe there's just one way to brew Busch beer. The nanrral way. With natural ingredients. Nanrral carbonation. Natural ageing. 
We believe that's the best way to brew a beer. And when you believe in what you're doing, you just naturally do it better. Taste a Busch and we think you'll agree. 
Anheuser-Busch Inc . St lOUIS. Mo 

.. r..."' ,"' 

"*The Observer an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's 
The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. It does not necessarjJy reflect the policies of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters are the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and letters are encouraged to promote the free expression of varying opinions on campus. 
!lox QBusiness Manager Sue Quigley 

l"'lotre Dame 

Advertising Manager Steve Bonomo Ind. 46556 Production Manager Karen Chiarnes 
W«:dnesday, March 23, 1977 




Trails Blazed Through J-Board Jungle 
In one week Dave Bender will assume 
office and begin the difficult process of 
implementing his campaign promises. His 
success will depend to a large extent on the 
quality and dedication of those he appoints 
to his staff. One of the most important 
positions Bender will have to fill is that of 
student government judicial coordinator. 
"Reorganization of the hall j-boards" has 
almost achieved cliche status but it 
remains a top consideration in any student 
administration. _ 
This year Judicial Coordinator Bob Bode 
has given priority to informing students of 
their rights and options in disciplinary 
situations, and making sure that those 
rights are respected and those options are 
available. A large part of Bode's program 
has been the establishment of judicial 
boards, at least on paper, in all the 
resident halls. His efforts for the most part 
have been successful, and we commend 
him. 
Itis up to Bode's successor, however, to 
see that the j-boards are used effectively in 
all the residence halls. 
We can think of no better place for the 
new judicial coordinator to start than with 
the Notre Dame Student Government 
Report: 1975·1976. The section on 
"Improvements in the Student Judicial 
System'' addresses the most pertinent 
aspects of the j-board problem and outlines 
some viable, highly-promising solutions 
that have already been implemented 
successfully in a. number of halls. 
The student government report empha­
sizes "the need for the. existence of a 
credible judicial board within each hall'' 
The report suggests a selection process for 
board members similar to that for RA' s: 
applications, recommendations and inter-­
views by responsible students and hall 
staff. Students finally selected (perhaps by 
the hall council or some of its members) 
Oliphant 
'You MffA LAY OFF -mAr COFFEE-IT~ HlcttJELY 
would remain on the board as long as they live in that hall "unless convicted of a violation not befitting that position.'' 
The need for this type of process to insure the selection of responsible mem­bers whose judgement will be respected by both residents and rectors is vital to the success of the judicial board system. The failure of other methods -popular election, appointment by hall president or judicial coordinator-has been aptly illustrated this year by the ejection of a number of j-board members from two halls for hall offenses. Those who must be depended on for fair and impartial judgement are rarely chosen by mass vote or by a single person. Witness the jury selection process in the American judicial system. 
The second point which we would particulary ask the new judicial coordinator to consider is contained in the Student Judicial Board M annal, appended to the student government report. The section on "Due Process" recommends that hall j-boards develop and publish the pro­cedures that will be followed in eases brought before them, using guidelines designed to protect student rights. 
We would add a recommendation that the range of penalities for particular offenses be defined as realistically as possible. Damage to hall property, for example, might be punishable by payment of damages, suspension from an intra­mural team or constructive work assign­ment (painting the elevator walls). We have urged the administration to give similar notification of consequences of rule infractions. We urge the students to set an example. 
These recommendations and others outlined in the student government report are necessary if the judicial boards are to earn the confidence of the University community. 
~ 
EDITORIAl BOARD 
Marti Hogan Editor-in-Chief Martha Fanning Managing Editor Bob Brink Asst. Managing Ed. Kathy Mills Executive Editor Maureen Flynn Editorial Editor Barb Breitenstein Exec. News Editor Tom Byrne Campus Editor Jean Powley St. Mary's Editor Katie Kerwin News Editor Paul Stevenson Sports Editor Pat Cole Special Projects Ed. David O'Keefe Features Editor 
Copy Editor Barb Langhenry 
Photo Editor Paul Clevenger 
opinion~~~~~~~~~ 


Dissent in the University 

.-.-.-.-.-.steve legeay 
Author's Prefatory Note: This article, the conclusion of which foUows, examines the cases of Harry Edwards, Paul Nyden, and James Danehy within the context of social power anJ social class relationships in advanced capitalism. BecauSP. of length, the entire column cannot be printed at once. The first part appeared yesterday. 
The cases of Edwards and Nyden raise in sharp relief what is usually only latent: the rule of one social class throughout all institutions in society, in this case the university. Dissent is variably tolerated or channeled into safe areas until it becomes too strong to ignore, with the resultant direct exercise of restraint. In such context, all the claptrap about academic freedom becomes somewhat silly. Such academic freedom as does exist is only the freedom to supply man­power to capitalist industries and the military, or to formulate and echo their ideological line. Free­dom to ender into critique is little· tolerated, as it would undermine the basis of the institutions as theya are presently constructed in Amer­ica: dependent upon and ruled by the capitalist class. Indeed, William Simon has recently sug­gested that such class rule be made ·formal: he proposes to make 
support and approval of the Amer­
ican system of "free enterprise" 
one of the conditions of the 
awarding of federal grants and aid 
to universities. 
This is not to suggest that the 
most powerful interests ·in America 
always and everywhere plot against 
open debate in the university. This 
is unnecessary for them. They only 
follow their own best interests, and 
in a capitalist society, that's only 
"rational". Everyone does it. Not 
to do it would, of course, be 
"irrational" or slightly insane. 
The point is, however, that those 
class interests ultimately exclude 
the widest possible discussion of 
social relations of production and 
their goals. onscious and deliber­
ate suppression need only occur at 
crisis pr:nts in the system. These 
points are illustrated in the cases of 
Edwards and Nyden, where discus­
sion is followed by action and 
community opinion polarizes. 
Most of the other time there is no 
need for conscious intervention, as 
the basic conflict remains latent 
and life goes on peacefully -not 
cooperatively, but with domination 
unrecognized. 
Alfred McClung Lee, the past 
president of the American Socio­
logical Association, has made some 
interesting remarks concerning the 
Nyden case, which can, I think, be 
generalized to Epwards as well. 
He points out that the arts of 
personnel selection and elimina­
tion, inculcated in university ad­
ministrators as they are in busi­
nesses, have been crudely practic­
ed. As a result, their motives have 
been sharply revealed. Whether 
this signals the beginning of a new 
McCarthyism or not is uncertain. 
Chances are that it will only 
promote more sophistication in 
hiring and firing practices, couch­
ing them in ''formal university 
rules and regulations" which the 
powerful make and their spokes­
men interpret. 
However, one thing is certain. ThP university as an institution is dominated by the capitalist class, 
ND-SMC, THIS IS YOUR PAGEl!! 

The Editorial page Is for you: all members of the Notre Dame and St. Mary's community. H you 'enjoy reading stimulating, controversial, thought-provoking and/or humorous material, help us give you the best--your own. Columns and letters should be typed or neatly-written, double-spaced and delivered to The Observer office. We regret that our volume often exceeds the space we have available, bufwe tiY tO bring you the best of what we have and to print representative samples of our mall. 
~ ~ 
whether such rule is exercised directly and obviously, .or indirect­ly, through financial support, slick hiring and firing proactices, and the managerial techniques of mon­opoly capitalism. That class is not interested in real freedom and debate about the goals of social and material production; its support of such is minimal, as Edwards and Nyden clearly demonstrate. Such debate can only occur among the alienated in the university: the students and certain faculty. Recent events and cir,cumstances have forced the issues in that 
.discussion upon our consciousness. 
As an instance, one can only speculate as to why so few minority faculty are employed at Notre Dame, or why such a politically homogenous atmosphere exists. 
But a more important instance concerns the university's attempt to remove Professor Danehy from his position upon his 65th birthday. While political motivation may not be the central issue, it takes little effort to realize that it's cheaper for the administration to hire a young Ph.D. for a fraction of the cost of a full professor, and then demand that he/she publish and compete for research grants, which inflates that university's purses and pres­tige. Furthermore, the society­wide pattern of age discrimination is also apparent here at Notre Dame, whereupon, at whatever age to retire at age 65. Forced termination of employment, at whatever age you specify, merely masks the fact that a capitalist society does not and cannot provide employment for all its labor force. 
It is amusing to note the ration­ale offered by the parrots of the administration for the suppression ofthe rights of the old: the defense of the rights of the young. In other sectors of the economy, the con­verse rationale is employed by the dominant class for the limited hiring of young workers during periods of capitalism's crisis; i.e., the seniority system. What's important in both contexts is the placement of blame upon other sections of the labor force(and not upon those in power), the resultant manipulation of sentiment, and the role of campus "liberal" organiza­tions in carrying out the program of domination. It certainly is strange that a university which offers one of the lowest salary ranges to new (often young) faculty, and restricts student activities with a list of regulations as long as your arm is 
waving the  banner of youth.  A  
more  believable line needs  to  be  
fabricated immediately.  

Professor Danehy's case raises some important questions about the participation of the elderly in the labor force of a capitalist society which should be confront­ed. However, the ability of the adm'inistration to remove such a qualified and popular teacher in so arbitrary a manner, without any official statement of reason, raises even more important questions about who rules Notre Dame. 

~----­
Wednesday, March 23, 1977 the observer 7 ~ 
-
DOONESBURY by Garry Trudeau 




P.O • BoxQ 
of chemistry is obviously indisput­regarded. The dangerous "Cath­able but what is so unique about olic community" theory, however, Prof. Danehy (from the student's is well regarded and should be point of view) is his unselfish addressed. It isn't a sin to realize commitment-to his students. that you are human. It is a sin for a 
Danehy 

dilemma... 
Anyone can get a Ph.D. in chemis­human community to portray itself try and spit out what he knows but as something better than what it rarely is a studednt (of any subject) actually is. In this sin, I believe all Dear Editor: 
fortunate enough to have a profes­are at fault. I fault the administra­Due to the distance between the 
who truly concerned tion for using all its energies in
Notre Dame campus and cosmopol­sor is with each and every student. If a perpetuating the facade of a Christ­itan Vermont, I have only recently student really wants to do well in ian community. I fault the students learned of, what I'll term, the "Dr. 
organic chemistry and asks Prof. for apathetically putting up with
Danehy Dilemma." Attempts to 
Danehy for help he will succeed. this hypocrisy.
forcibly retire this unparalleled 
I realize that University protocol I haven't written this letter justprofessor are ludicrous, discrimina­is at issue but if the University of to be unreasonably critical. Thistory, and (lamentably) typical of 
the administration's warped ra­Notre Dame is as personal as it community has many qualities preaches to be protocol could be which should be preserved. How­
tionale. 
modified (perhaps permanently) in ever, I believe the time has comeI had the privilege (with the order to allow a productive, active when some major changes must beemphasis on privilege) of having and caring professor of chemistry made. The administration seemsDr. Danehy as an instructor for to continue teaching after his 65th to be more interested in maintain­Collegiate Seminar during my Ju­birthday. ing the facade than actually worry­nior year at ND (1973-74). Fortu­Mark Connelly ing about the interests of thenately, my ineptitude in chemistry students. For some reason, thedid NOT deprive me of Dr. 
collection of priests and outstand­Danehy's academic sensitivity and ing laymen who run this institution astounding wealth of knowledge. ...and some seem be happy
Without a doubt, Dr. Danehy is to very with 
maintaining this hypocritical fac­capable of teaching intelligently in ade. Maybe they actually thinkno less than several other depart­facts that this is nirvana. It is obviousments at Notre Dame. I might add that the administration doesn'tthat not once during the aforemen­Dear Editor: seek to change the status quo (and 
tioned academic year was he During my tenure as Dean of the in fight a
will fact, change).
condescending or arrogant, an 
College of Science, which is now in 

Therefore it is up to us, the
attitude that speaks concisely of 
the tenth year, there has been only 

students, to fight for the changesthis man's character. 
one faculty member retained to 

which are needed. The facade ofI would not hesitate to assert that 
teach after reaching the retirement 

"In Loco Parentis" is absurd and
during my entire 16 years of 
age of 65. He is Dr. Darwin Mead, 

must go! We are adults and should participating in the educational 
Associate Professor of Physics, 

be treated as adults. I plead to you, process, Dr. Danehy was unrivaled 
Emeritus. Dr. Mead was retained 

the students, to get off your asses
as the most adept, considerate, 
for one year due to the unexpected 

and get mad and get involved. Ifhumble, knowledgeable (even 
disappearance of Dr. Charles 

you don't, you may be the next tothough he was allegedly out of his 
Mullin while mountain climbing. 

be suspended for getting drunk atfield), and open-minded 
The number of retirements in 

the wrong time of day, or be kicked teacher/professor that I've ever 
this period totalled 13, exclusive of 

off campus for partying too much,had! 
those retiring this year. 

or mugged due to lack of security, 
Lastly, I feel obligated to re­Cordially, to
nounce the myth that one's mind or suffer greatly due our
Bernard -Nr...dman 

inadequate infirmary. 
and life stops at 65. My family 
Dean 

Kevin M. O'Relliybusiness is a nursing home, at which I have lived and/or worked 
can P.S. If you want to see changes, tell 
for my entire 24 years. I 'We are me, a friend, an enemy, Mikepersonally attest to the fact that Gassman, somebody, anybody. 
age is an arbitrary measure of ones capabilities (mental or otherwise). 
adults!'

As a result, I can only mourn any decision other than to allow Dr. 
ND-a sick 
Dear Editor: Danehy to continue as one of Notre To the students:Dame's greates professors and 

What is the true character of the 

community
men. N.D. community? Are we the
Brad Marcotte '75 

Dear Editor: that many of us pride ourselves in ...some being, or are we the "obnoxious This letter has been written a, 
"Catholic, familial community" 

brats, pot-bellied disgraces, and least a thousand times by various blatant hypocrites" that some of us students only to be torn up in favor
support... 

seem to think? This may be a sin to of some homework. I'd like to take say but I think that this is neither this opportunity to complete it for 
Dear Editor: nirvana nor a total hypocrisy. We all of them and to have it printed. are silpply a conglomeration of Before I came to Notre Dame I 
As a 1975-76 student of organic mere mortals, with all or virtues heard various alumni tell me of its chemistry I would like to personally and shortcomings. I don't feel it is beauty and how it represented the vouch for the total and even necessary to address the "blatant best four years of their lives. Upon exceptional competence of Prof. hypocrite" notion because it is hearing their rants and raves I James P. Danehy. His knowledge obviously one sided and not well decided to apply and join in on the happiness. After a week at Notre Dame I realized that not all I had
0
I've JIJ5TB&EN IN TO 5E13 JIM+fY! 

heard from the alumni coincided
WHITe [J(JANE? 
HE5 WRY PlEASEIJII/f!H >tl'R~, 
0 

with the upperclassmen's views of
HOfi!JeSMJOIS. 7HIS 15 
WANE! lHE CALL-INSH'J«/. THE 

Notre Dame. Most of the sopho­
HAMHOlE.• 
CHAT, 7lECAR/)I(j4J.J, 7JEL/MlCl/15, 
~ 

mores, juniors and seniors told me
FUll.. RNANC!A/.. 015CL/JSIIRC, AMYS 
"7RJ15TEE"GO/Ilii?NiiSS -AU l/N­

rn of the pressures involved in and out 
m of the classroom. c At first I allowed myself i to remain aloof from their opinions in
~ order to form my own, but I soon found that what they said was true and I concluded that Notre Dame was a sick community and still is today as I enter my sophomore year. On any weekend you can see how the unbalanced male to female ratio has affected the Notre Dame community. Men who came from successful high school backgrounds are reduced to weekday or weekend 
f 
!fQI/I'tiXAL f 
OKAYBYMf. HECK, NO! 

drunks from lack of social success 
I OON'THAV/3 IN FAa;I'M 

in the sparce jungle or from 
TOTAl<& A SUREW'V/3 

anything else to do. Women,
PAYRA/5&, GOTAOJT 

unable to exist with the self­
OOI? \ COMIN6 To 

competing, back-biting men turn
YOU! 

into both extro-and introverted souls, unable to cope with the plethora of unnatural opportunistic conditions. 
N:>tre Dame is famous for its traditions, but I'm sure the annual graduation of academic and social neurotics is something the admini­stration wouldn't be proud of owning up to, and yet it's true. Rockne and The Gipper are dead anL although their inspiration lives on, people in the present shouldn't oe required to live in their shadow or time period. 

Action is imperative. Notre Dame's administration needs to start listening to the students rather than publishing their weekly grievances against them and making policy changes without student conference Too often I've heard students discuss how this campus could be improved only to be stifled by lack of attentiun paid to their voices. Most of us attending Notre Dame are old enough to know our needs and .souls' begin to realize that our paying to live here as well as go to schooi is enough to make us rate with the administration. 
The most immediate concern of the students should be to organize a well-directed grievance commit­tee so projects like the construction of a modern student union in place of the inadequate and archaic LaFortune Center and the elimini­nation of the single-sex dorm policy can begin. 
Notre Dame has the potential to become a comfortable institution to live in, but it will only become a reality through the active students who will stand up for what they feel must be done. 





-----~--------~--------~-----------­
Examining the CriticEditor's Note: Ms. Hawfteld Is liD Instruc:tor In the Speech IUld Dnma 
Department of Saint Muy's College. She cllrected last semester's Department pro­
duction  of  Edward  Albee's  A  Delicate  
Balance,  whleb  wu  reviewed  In  The  
Obeerver.  

It is a generally accepted concept in the world of theatre that all printed criticism of our work should be humbly accepted as coming from knowledgeable people with an objective eye.-That is, this concept is generally accepted by the reviewers and those who read their reviews. I myself have never before attempted to review publicly those comments which are written about my work and that of my colleagues and students, but I feel that the time has come when someone on the creative side of the stage must speak out in an attempt to put the practice of review into perspective. 
Theatre, as a part of the process of higher education, has several purposes and functions (too complex to fully explore in this letter) which are vital and necessary both to those who participate in its creation and those who participate in the audience for whom those efforts were made. I say "participate" in the audience for the audience in any theatrical endeavor does not serve in a passive role, as any actor will admit. The person on stage can feel audience reaction, good or bad, and this will affect his or her performance to a marked degree. In this way the audience is really helping to create the theatrical experience. This is a fact that is too often conveniently forgotten by those who are chosen by the news media to inform those not present as to what transpired at any gi_ven theatrical event. We are told not what the general audience reaction was, but only the reaction of the "critic." In the hands of someone who is informed and experienced this can be a good thing and educational to both the prospective audi­ence and the creative artists. However, in the hands of someone who does not fully understand the process and intentions of theatre this can be immensely destructive. Unfortunately, in my eleven short years of theatrical experience I have seen more destruction of theatre at the hands ofcritics than efforts towards growth and enlighten­ment. I think that it is high time that the destruction cease and that more effort be directed towards encouraging our young artists. 
Throughout history the world over, critics have generally agreed that the functions of theatre are to teach and to please, or to entertain, their audiences. The emphasis has shifted between these aims, but they are nearly always men­tioned together. In educational theatre the teaching process is extended also to the backstage area. Here again, it is most unfortunate -indeed almost criminal -that the people who are exerting such a tremendous amount of time and effort in a creative endeavor and learning process are so severely criticised. I would not feel qualified to walk into a biology of physical education class and deal out heart­shattering remarks to the students there, and I cannot help but resent the presump­tion of others who feel qualified to do this very thing to the theatre arts students. In theatre one is placed in an extremely vulnerable position, very open to criticism from all sides, and I deplore the actions of those critics who have chosen to take undue and unfair advantage of this vulnerability to put things into print which they would probably not dare to say to the face of the person in question. The person who is dealt these remarks is 
~osually told they must develop a stoical --attitude because they can expect this sort of treatment throughout their frequently too short theatrical careers. I feel that I must now question the necessity for such intense brutality on the part of our theatre reviewers, who should be people interested in the growth and nourishment of theatre art (through constructive criticism), but more often than not contribute more and more to its demise. I hasten to say that this problem exists nation-wide and is not peculiar to college and university theatre. 
I cannot help but wonder why this generally harmless and up-lifting activity ­theatre -should draw the kind of criticism that it does. Reading the past few theatre reviews in the Observer I would be convinced, if an outsider, that there is a very little worthwhile going on in our dramatic arts department and that every­one who participates in the productions might well be spending thefr (our) time more effectively elsewhere. I grow weary of such negativism. What theatre in our country needs is a good crop of critics who know theatre well, can write intelligently, and wh0 can deal out compassionate criticism consistently. It is compassion which is missing most conspicuously. The compassion has been buried under the search for a few laughs from the readers or, like swearing, the inability to use the English language well enough to express a critical remark without turning to a personal insult and innuendo at the expense of all too vulnerable theatre artists. Missing perhaps less conspicu­ously, but no less importantly, to all but those who are used to reviews is 
Diana Hawfield 
consistency. Not only consistency within the review itself, but with the intentions of the artists. We are too often measured against a yardstick which exists only in the mind of the reviewer, usually as a result of some preconceived notion based on a quick reading of the text or some former production, which is necessarily but an­other interpretation of the script. 
Please let us know where we have failed to entertain or enlighten our audience, but let us also know where we have succeeded. Perhaps my idealism is showing in my hope that the theatre can be reviewed as it is viewed -with the expectation of being enlightened and entertained. If we are to treat our reviewers here as we do our other students in theatre, for they are students also, then I can but offer my remarks as a practising theatre artist and hope that they are received as intended. If one loves theatre then one does not aid in its destruction or the destruction of those who are learning to create it. A loving parent does not raise a well-adjusted child through the use of brutality, but with patience and the judicious balance of criticism and praise. Let us have theatre criticism here which emulates the best and does not nurture the worst aspects of our country's current practices of dramatic review. Until our theatre critics learn their business, those· who create theatre either as a professiop or a voluntary creative outlet can expect only two things as a reward for their back-bending, heart­breaking efforts: the applause from a pleased audience after a show and a vicious attack from the critic a few days later, whose remarks are subtle (and construc­tive) as a "train wreck." 

cinema in south bend 

Dreadful 

11ae ToWD That Dreaded SandoWD 
Directed by Charles B. Pierce 
There are many films that have been made but could have been made better. There are several that could have been made much better. And there are a few that should never have been made in the first place. 11ae ToWD That Dreaded SUDdoWD is one of the latter. 
Here is a film that depicts, with journalistic accuracy, a series of cold­blooded murders by a depraved phantom killer in Texarkana, Texas in 1946. The filmmakers choose not to approach the incident from any angle. Rather, they charge it head-on, crafting a piece of straight cinematic narrative that ignores the victims, the killer, the panic-stricken townspeople, the police, and anyone else whose lives were touched by the terror. In that it is a film without characters and plot, it stands as a monument to everything that is vacuous -and deadly-dull in film. 
The film opens with a panorama of the town accompanied by the droning of a narrator, who dogs us throughout the film. His function is to introduce us to the victims ("Sam had just returned from the War and had been seeing Emma Mae for six weeks.") while we watch Sam and Emma Mae get into their car. They drive out into the woods for some back-seat conversation and get attacked by the Phantom Killer, who wears a white hood on his head for some reason or other. We never get to know a thing about the victims' lives until they are attacked, so this isn't one of those aren't-senseless­murders-senseless films. The victims are functional characters that get into cars, drive to various parts of Texarkana to make out, and get killed or maimed while the narrator rambles on. 
Let's look at the angles that are left. The film isn't an attempt at exploring the motives of a seemingly senseless killer; we never even see his face. It isn't an effort at demonstrating the terror inspired by arbitrary killings; the only forays in that direction are occassional shots of Texar­kana folk boarding up the windows of their houses (from the inside, even). 
The closest the movie comes to being about anything is in its portrayal of the men whose job it is to catch the dreaded Phantom Killer. There is Texas Ranger 
:?.ll'?~.·.r,r,.....;:.,_~#'..r,~.;.!A,.y,,.~•,.;·.;·..·:~•.-~•..J..~·;.\~-~,-'*...~-,;-,t~ ..J~t~-,... l·..·:~·t··~·-.. •••" "•.•_.-.., • • • t •• , • ••., •• ".to • • ••-•••_, ~ ·~•Y.fi•••~··•. ' . ­
I J J I

Jr.J.. "'• ·.-F•'·"·"'·.rs ... "'. _. :·.... ~ ..... •• _._,, ... _.;_-.•-.-!',_"., • "'"·"'· ~~~ .-tt ..>.·•~ •.•• •. •.• ......... • •. • • t .-•••_•.• • •.•f·t_.~\· ~.-fr..!J.•~~~.tt.• 
by dave o'keefe 
J.D. Morales (Ben Johnson), the arche­typal hardnosed cop in a cowboy hat. Ben Johnson is too good for all this nonsense; he should be forced to watch the film a few times as punishment, but only a few times. 
After all, let's be humane about it. Andrew Prine gives the best performance by far as Deputy Sheriff Norman Ramsey, but saying that his was the best perfor­mance is saying very little indeed. The third cop that we spend any time with in the film is an occasionally endearing incompetent named Sparkplug, who pro­vides incredibly strained bits of comic relief. 
Perhaps realizing that they went about it all wrong, the makers of this film make a last-ditch effort at infusing the thing with some significance by suggesting that this Phantom Killer may still be alive some­where today. For that to be true, he would have had to hobbled through a swamp with a bullet in his leg while being chased by bloodhounds and survived. Even if he had, he would be in his late 60's today, and well past his prime as a Phantom Killer. 
So what we are left with is a numblingly earnest film made for no apparent reason. It is, like the murders it depicts, senseless. As I reread what I've written, I conclude that it is a film not worth seeing, let alone 

r. atnc Ma1oney 
records 
Not a Follow-Up 
Fleetword Mac's 1975 release, Fleet­wood Mac, surely left no easy act to follow. Selling over four million copies and producing three hit singles ("Rhiannon," "Over My Head", and "Say That You Love 
Me"), it seemed that the group had cashed in on one of those rare right-album­at-the-right-time occurrances which often leaves a follow-up release floundering in its wake. 
Apparently, however, Fleetwood Mac was no fluke. Rumours, the band's most recent effort, could hardly be classified as strictly a follow-up, because it is made of the stuff that doesn't need to ride on the merits of its predecessor. The same musicianship which made Fleetwood Mile so successful is present here: Mick Fleetwood (verteran of more than 10 years with Fleetword Mac) on percussion, John McVie (the 'Mac' in the name) on bass, Lindsy Buckingham on guitars and vocals Christine McVie on Keyboards and vocals, and Stephanie "Stevie" Micks doing vocals. 
Somewhat surprisingly, the two women ofthe group make the greatest contribution to Rumours. Of the eleven cuts on the album, seven were written by either McVie or Nicks. Although Christine McVie's keyboards usually support rather than 
The Howard hall Academic­Cultural Commission is sponsoring an all-Beethoven music recital thi Thursday, arch 24, at 8 p.m., to mark the 150th anniversary of the composer's death. The recital will feature two faculty members of the Notre Dame music department: William Cerny (piano) and Fr. Patrick maloney )tenor); and David Basch (hom) or the I.U.S.B. music department. 
Scheduled on the program are: sonata for hom and Piano, op. 17; To the Distant Beloved, a cycle of six songs; and Piano Sonata no. 21 in C. op 53 ("Waldstein"). Each performer will offer a brief com­mentary on the music· he is performing. The recital will be held in Howard Hall, and is free and open to the public. 
by bill riuard 

htl!:nu,gnt the music; and although Stevie 
plays no instrument save the tambourine and other accessories, both girls have very distinctive voices which sound as good in harmony as alone. Nicks usually backs up McVie's brandy-voiced lead, but comes into her own singing lead vocals in "Dreams" and "Gold Dust Woman." 
Lindsey Buckingham's guitar work is delicate where necessary, yet strong and rather loud in the harder passages of cuts like "Go Your Own Way" and "The Chain." John. McVie's bass is strong and driving throughout the album,. playing a major role in keeping Rumours solidly in the rock 'n' roll category. Mick Fleetwood's percussion is competent, if somewhat unimaginative, and he seems content to remain in a supportive role throughout. 
Rumoars was written and recorded in the thick of an emotional upheaval within the group. John and Christine McVie were in the middle of terminating their marriage; Lindsey Buckingham and Stevie Nicks were also splitting up. With only two exceptions, this is the subject matter of every song on the album, but one would be hard pressed to discover the connection by listening only. The music is too diverse to be lumped into a single love-gone-wrong theme. 
Fleetwood Mac's individual technical skill is not dazzling -there are no lightning fast guitar or keyboard licks. just a slightly laid back yet solid and dynamic unity of style which leaves Rumours an album which can surely stand up on its own.

F. p . k 

Getting to Florida for spring break wasn't particularly easy for these Notre Dame students. [Photo 
by Janet Karney] 
Frost to interview Nixon for four TV programs 
LOS ANGELES [API • Former President Richard M. Nixon, silent until now about his career and the Watergate scandal that drove him from office in 1974, starts talking today for history, television and money. · 
And British talk show star David Frost, whose exclusive interviews with him will air in May, calls the talks he's taping with Nixon ea8ily the toughest an!! most challenging· task of his entire career. 
"Particularly sirice Richard M. Nixon is reknowned to be an . incredibly private person, and we want to see the real Richard Nixon, find out the answer to that enigma," Frost said. . 
Among those who've helped Frost prepare for the Nixon meet­ings are Carl Bernstein and Bob Woodward, the Washmgton Post reporters whose work broke open· the Watergate story that led to Nixon's resignation. 
Frost, whose company opened an office in Washington, D.C., last July to research the Nixon story, says Woodward and Bernstein "are but two of hundreds of people who've ·given us their 
' help. 
"We've literally talked to hund­reds of people, had a fulltime ·staff of four working smce July, and they've talked to hundreds of people who participated in· the Nixon saga-for, against and in the middle." · 
Starting today, Frost is to inter­view Nixon 12 times, two hours each time, with the last interview on April 20. He says they're working at a private home near Nixon's house in San Clemente. 
Neither Frost nor his production company, Paradine Productions, 
Rules reformed 
The Student Government Elec­tion Committee wants to reformu­late its rules and guidelines for the presidential and SLC campaigns. The committee will consider sug­gestions that anyone has to offer. Suggestions should be brought to the Ombudsman office in LaFor­tune by Friday, March 25. A forum will be held Monday, March 28 at 
7:30 p.m. in LaFortune theater to discuss the suggestions. 
Concert tonight 
The Notre Dame Concert Band will present its annual Spring Concert tonight at 8: IS in the Athletic and Convocation Center. 
The concert will be the finale of the band's recent tour through southern United States. Admission is free. 
will say what the 64-year-old former president is being paid for the interviews. But published reports put the fee at around $600,000. 
At least 118 television stations in the United States will air the interviews to be edited down to four 90-minute programs shown in sequence on May 4, 12, 19 and 25, says Syndicast Services, the com­pany selling the show. 
And, says Marvin Minoff, Frost's business partner, the Mu­tual Broadcasting System has bought radio rights to the Nixon interivews and will feed them to MBS affiliates for airing the same nights as the telecasts. 
Frost, 37, met with Nixon two weeks ago to iron out technical details of the interview-taping. He described him as appearing, "re­markably resilient," as he first found him on Aug. 9, 1975, when Nixon signed · his contract with Frost a year to the day after resigning from office. 
"It was as if he went through that enormous emotional decom­pression and has come to terms 
· with the most dramatic rise and fall in American political history,'' Frost said. 
Asked to describe Nixon's mood, he said, "Composed, I suppose, is the best word, because he's about to embark on these 12 sessions of two-hour interviews, which are a tremendous undertaking, really. 
"I'm a television man and I've never done 12 two-hour sessions." 
According to Minoff, the first televised show will deal with Nixon's last days in office, the second with his foreign policies, the third with his domestic policies and last with Watergate. 
Seminar Friday 
The "Cultures in Conflict" sym­posium sponsored by the center for the study of man, to be held Wednesday March 23, has been postponed antil Friday April 15 at 2 p.m. 
HPC meeting 
continued from page 1 next 1nursday. 
Russell also said that Fr. James Burtchaell, University provost, will attend the <\pril 5 HPC meeting. Burtchaell \\ 1s scheduled to attend last night's neeting, but Russell said he cane• lied out on Monday. 
Russell n >ted that by the HPC meeting or. April 5th all new hall presidents will be in office. Russell added that all former hall presi­dents are welcome to attend the meeting with Burtchaell. 



"Maybe
it will 
go
away." 
The five most dangerous words in the English language. 
l 
American Cancer Society 
We want to cure cancer in your lifetime. 
Wednesday, March 23, 1977 the observer 
9 

-· 
British writer to lecture 
... 
/ was raised in an atmosphere sur-.
by Peggy Schumaker rounded by the arts. His father and · grandfather were both artists of 

Christopher Derrick, a British note. He was educated at Douai 
writer, critic and lecturer, will Abbey and received his degree at 
speak on skepticism and liberal Magdalen College, Oxford, where 
education in the Library auditorium his personal tutor was C.S. Lewis. 
at 7:30 p.m. on Thursday, March Derrick's books include Trimm· 
24. lng The Art, The Writing of Novels, 
Derrick also serves as literary The DeUcate Creation: Towards a consultant to several publishers in Theology of the Environment, and London. His articles and books The Light of Revelation and Non­have been published on both sides Christians. 
of the Atlantic and he is a regular Derrick will be presented by the correspondent for The Wanderer. 'student Union Academic Born in England in 1921, Derrick Commission. 




Acareer in law­
without law school. 
What can you do with only a bachelor's degree? 
Now there is a way to bridge the gap between an undergraduate education and a challenging, respon­sible career. ThP Lawyer's Assistant is able to do work traditionally done by lawyers. 
Three months of intensive training can give you the skills-the courses are taught by lawyers. You choose one of the seven courses offered-choose the city in which you want to work. 
Since 1970, The Institute for Paralegal Training has placed more than 1600 graduates in law firms, banks, and corporations in over 75 cities. 
If you are a senior of high academic standing and are interested in a career as a Lawyer's Assistant. we'd like to meet you. 
Contact your placement office for an interview with our representative. 
We will visit your c;:ampus on 
TUESDAY, MARCH 29 
The Institute for Paralegal Training 
235 South 17th Stre~t. Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19103 (215) 732-$00 Operated by Para-Legal, Inc. 
AC-0035 

ND-SMC SENIOR CLASS PPESENTS 
A TIME TO REMEMBER Senior Formal '77 
Friday, Apri I 1 5 
Grand Ballroom Conrad Hilton Hotel, Chicago, Ill BIDS GO ON SALE WEDNESDAY, MARCH 23 IN LA FORTUNE BALLROOM AND LE MANS LOBBY 2 -4 pm COST $35 plus Transportation $10 Deposit Required 
Remainder Due E!Y April 7 .~,· 


·­
House committee hears saccharin debate 
, 
r f 
' 
' 
' 
~ 
' 
r 
,I r 
WASHINGTON [AP]-Consumer stituents, want the law changed. advocates are urging House mem­They want to give the Food and bers to take seriously tests showing Drug Administration authority to saccharin causes cancer in animals. weigh benefits with risks in decid­But diet-industry spokesmen and ing whether food additives should 
some lawmakers claim the tests are be banned. questionable and should not force a They also are asking for a ban on saccharin from human suspension of the proposed saccha­
diets. rin ban, likely to go into effect in 
A similar split exists over the July, pending new tests under FDA Delaney clause, a law requiring a control. ban on any food additive that tests But Dr. Sidney Wolfe, of Ralph show causes cancer in animals or Nader's Health Research Group, man. testified that recent Canadian tests 
Hearings are continuing before a on saccharin confirm other experi­House health subcommittee head­ments. He cited a 1973 FDA study ed by Rep. Paul Rogers, (D-Fla.), said to show that some laboratory who pledged Monday there will be rats fed saccharin developed malig­no "precipitous" move in Congress nant bladder tumors. to change the Delaney clause. A common attack against the 
The diet industry and many Canadian study disputes any rela­members of Congress, under pres­tion between human cancer and sure from dieting or diabetic con-rats fed saccharin equal to 800 
University VIP's .J to speak at various ND alumni clubs 
Universal Notre Dame Nights, a · highlight of the year for many of the 175 alumni clubs across the nation, begin this month when administrators and other Uni­versity personnel schedule speak­ing engagements in . scores of American cities. The annual talks spotlight the academic achieve­ments of the University. 
Fr. Edmund P. Joyce, executive vice president, will begin the series with talks in Fort Wayne tomorrow, Detroit on March 31, and in Indianapolis on April 22. Fr. Theodore M. Hesburgh, University president, will be the speaker at club meetings in Chicago April 22; Milwaukee, April 25; Washington, D.C., April 27; and Pittsburgh, May 15. 
Also representing the University will be Fr. James T. Burtchaell, provost, who will speak at the Dallas-Fort Worth meeting April 28; Houston, April 29; South Bend's St. Joseph Valley Club, May 3; and Tulsa, May 14. Dr. James W. Frick, vice president for public relations and development, 
Sp~cial Wed.&Thurs. Tostada Dinner$1.60 
~~·~ 

·~~­
.. 

lfj~' c?__ . 

~&~Tro ·(urs~ 

,~ RESTAURAN,~Ji
'\~ _,., :5 ~:t· "'~~~ @'
~ 

11 a.m. to 11 p.m. 233-0385 526 Western Ave., South Bend 
10% off!! 

With NO SMC students 
I. D. on all purchases except footwear. 
CUSTOM WORK We make leather gar­ments to order. We also carry Frye, Jus­tin, and Crocket boots. Offer ends April 6. 

will speak in Minneapolis-St. Paul April 21; Cincinnati, May 17; St. Louis, May 25; and Kansas City, May 26. 
Edmund A. Stephan, chairman of the board of trustees, will speak to graduates and friends in the New York area on May 12. 






FINDI 
bottles of diet soft drink a day. people thought the government 
But both Wolfe and some FDA was behaving in a "frivolous" officials said large doses of a test manner and was compelled to do so substance must be fed laboratory by the "arbitrary" nature of the animals "to avoid a result which law. makes known cancer-causing Sherwin Gardner, acting FDA chemicals appear harmless." commissioner, testified agency 
Wolfe claimed the result of the scientists have no reason to suspect initial FDA proposal was that many the results of the Canadian tests. 
Carter says Israel may have to retain some Arab land, '67 borders ''are dead'' 
WASHINGTON [AP] -President ity Council, to M "1-: East diplo­opinion that adjustments in Israel's Carter has concluded that the 1967 mats after Israeli ~ ,ne Minister favor may vary from 12 to 32 miles. borders in the Middle East "are Yitzhak Rabin had completed his Dramatically lacking is the idea dead" and that Israel, _for its visit here earlier this month. of any independent Palestinian security, may have to retain consi­The Arabs have insisted that state under the direction of the derable Arab territory in a peace they recover, in a final settlement, Palestine Liberation Ore;anization. settlement, qualified sources said ever since of territory captured by Tuesday night. Israel in the Six-Day War of 1967. 
The "parameters" of the ad­Carter has said publicly that Lecture given ministration's current thinking in­Israel is entitled to "defensible clude the President's view that a borders.'' But he did not define on crisis of law Palestinian "homeland" would be them except to indicate that Israeli 
Stuart L. Hannon will speak on under Jordan's control. patrols possibly could operate be­"The World Crisis of Law" tonight 

In a final settlement, Carter is yond the final boundaries, which he at 8 in Memorial Auditorium. 
said to believe Israel may have to said would include "minor adjust­Hannon has been a Foreignextend its borders as much as 32 ments" from the 1967 lines. 
Service Officer for 21 years in miles into the Sinai Desert and also In outlining Carter's thinking, Europe, Asia and Latin America,keep considerable territory on the Brzezinski is reported to have and is a consultant on international 

west bank of the Jordan River and relayed Carter's judgement that 
economic and communications on the Golan Heights. the old borders "are dead" and are problems.
The President's views reportedly no longer practical in terms of a The lecture is sponsored by the were outlined by Zbigniew Brzezin­peace agreement. The President, Institute for International Studies. 
ski, director of the National Secur-11ccording to the sources, is of the 
How the energy crisis chills your chances 
So you're getting your degree and looking for that perfect joh. More power to you. Literally. You'll need it. 
America will have to find the energy it takes to make you a _iob. 
Expressed as heat. this nation spend-; at least 71 quads of energy a year. That"s 71 4uadrillion BTUs. A 71 followed bv I) zeroes. Since one BTU will heat a .pound of water one degree Fahrenheit. we're talking ahout bring­ing 21Y trillion pounds of ice to a boil. That"s a glacier thirteen miles long. two miles wide and a mile thick. Every year. 
Each working man and woman's share of our 71 'luad1 comes to H(X).(XXl.O(X) BTUs. Of course all that energy isn't spent on the job. Nor do all jobs take the same amounl. although most spend more than we think. But when you look at our avail­able energy and the H9.<XXUXXl people at work. then HCXl.<XXl.<XXl BTUs is each job's share. 
Now think about th~ IH.IXXl.OIXl more U.S. men and women experts say will he looking for jobs over the next ten years. At HCKJ.(KKI.!XKl BTlls apiece. we'll have to come up with an extra 1-t...l '1uad1 of energy to create new .iobs for them. 
At Armco. WL' face the energy problem every day because it takes about 29.01Xl.!Xl0 BTlls to make each ton of steel. Our energy hill last year came to over SJ<X).(XX).(XXl. The cost keeps dimhing every year. No wonder companies conserve energy. We have to. even though most of Armco's energy comes from coal which we mine ourselves. When companies can't get energy. people lose their johs. We all learned that during the winter. The energy crisis is here. And it"s huge. 
Plain talk about 
ENERGY 
We Americans already know how to solve the energy crisis. We have the technology to reach solutions. Yet each solution comes with its own set of polhical problems. Natural gas mustn't cost too much. Offshore oil mustn't spoil our beaches. Coal mustn't rape the land or poison rhe air. The atom mustn't threaten to destroy us. Energy conservation mustn't interfere with ­spending BTUs for worthy reasons. 
Fair enough. But so far. we're pay­ing more attention to the problems than we ure to the energy itself. We've got to stop making every social goal an ideological crusade. We need to think things through and make rational trade-offs if we're ever going to get those IH.<XXl.(XXl additional jobs. 
Next time some zealot crusades for anything. test the crusade against this ljUtJstion: Does it produce at least 1111e BTl'\ 1\"orth olene1:!.!,y? If nol. it won't do a thing til help you get a job. 
' ,

ARMCO 
v 
Free-Armco's plain talk on how to get a job 
We've got a free booklet to help you get a job. Use it to set yourself apart, above the crowd. We answer 50 key questions you'll need to know. Like why you should bone up on companies you like. What to do a.fter the first interview. Hints to make you a more aggressive. attractive job candidate. All prepared for Armco by a consult­ing firm specializing in business recruiting. with help from the place­ment staff of a leading university. 
Send for your free copy of How to Get aJob. Write Armco Steel Corpora­tion. Educational Relations Dept., General Offices, U-2. Middletown. Ohio 45043. Our supply is limited. so write now. 
Armco wants v.our plain talk about energy and jobs 
Does our message make sense'! We·d like to know what you think. Your personal experiences. Facts you've found to prove ur disprove our point. 
Drop us a line. We'll send you a more detailed report on energy and jobs. Our offer of flow to Get a .loh. above. tdls vou how to write us_ Let us hl'ar fmrn-vou. We've gPt a stake in llhlre 
\mcrican 1ohs. 
He said they demonstrated "be­yond resonable question'; that saccharin causes malignant blad­der tumors in test animals. 
He and all other witnesses emphasized there is no known link to connect those test results with human cancer. 



American nuclear weapon research increases 

Uvermore, CA, Mar. 21 [PNS] • The lab's fiscal 1977 nuclear systems will be in full-scale devel­Batzel says a sharp increase in possibility of a unilateral nuclear While the Carter Administration weapons budget represents an 18 opment at any given time, up from demand for current weapons over test ban. repeatedly affirms its commitment percent increase over the previous none several years ago, to meet the the last few years has drawn funds The scientists, remembering ear­
o reversing the nuclear arms race, year, reversing a decade-long trend Defense Department's short-term away from the development of lier moratoriums and partial bans, orne of the nation's top nuclear of stagnation on nuclear weapons requirements; future weapons systems. reacted with a mixture of concern~ eapons scientists in Livermore, research. And if Defense Depart­-Conceptualization and preliminary He cites as reasons the need to and disbelief. CA have charted a five-year devel­ment plans for weapons develop­design of future weapons systems -replace aging weapons in the "I don't think the Congresss opment plan, based on Defense ment do not change significantly, those short of actual engineering stockpile, as well as the Pentagon's would agree with it and I don't Department needs, calling for a the lab's "national security" bud­and development -will be increas­perception of a Soviet drive for think we could do it,'' said May. substsantial increase in nuclear get will continue to grow in real ed by at least two-thirds. nuclear superiority and the need to ''It would bring-if not to a halt -at weapons development. dollars from $156 million in fiscal -Work will be completed on the improve the tactical nuclear arsenal least essentially to a halt, nuclear The Lawrence Livermore Labora­1977 to $202 million in fiscal 1978. giant Shiva fusion laser, the in Europe. weapons development ... My own tory's nuclear weapons forecast While this is a small part of the world's largest, which besides Lab directors say a recent em­opinion is that it shouldn't be could return weapons research and roughly $2.4 billion spent annually future civil energy applications will phasis on tactical nuclear weapons done." development levels to a pace near on nuclear weapons systems (not have immediate applications for -designed for striking specific Batzel said a test ban would end that of the early and mid-60's, counting costs for missiles and simulating some aspects of nuclear localized targets as opposed to any "effective" nuclear weapons when weapons in the current bombers), many agree it is the weapons testing in the lab. strategic systems for mass devasta­program in the U.S. and undermine stockpile were being built. most vital part. For it is at tion -is in large measure a result of "confidence in the nuclear weap­
Future Weapons
Laboratory administrators, sen­Livermore and at Los Alamos, that the lab's own work. The lab has ons stockpile ... It's going to take a sitive to public criticisms of the the new ideas are developed that been experimenting with tactical few generations for the world to weapons work, say that all weapons pave the way for the massive According to lab Director Roger weapons for a number of years and change that much,'' he added. programs must be approved by the billion-dollar new weapons Batzel, a 70 percent increase in the are just beginning to be accepted, But Batzel acknowledges that in 
systems. future weapons effort -now a small
President and Congress. said Michael May, an associate lab the event of a complete test ban, 
But despite President Carter's Among the significant features if significant part of the program -director and former SALT negotia­the laser fusion technology being hints of a unilateral nuclear test of the lab's projections, gleaned is necessary to counter the present tor for the Defense Department. developed at the lab could provide ban and his appointment of Paul from public documents and inter­emphasis on development of cur­May says that future weapons some aspects of "simulated" nuc­
Warnke, a liberal on arms control, views with top administrators: rent weapons for the stockpile. work will put heavy emphasis on lear weapons testing to continue to head the U.S. SALT delegation, -At least one new nuclear weapons This emphasis, says Batzel, "does "cleaning up" the unwanted side inside the lab. morale among the nearly 3,400 system will be introduced into the not allow the flexibility to explore effects of tactical weapons, such as Marv Gustavson, the lab's assis­
scientists in the weapons program nation's stockpile each year; the new areas in nuclear weapons radioactive fallout, and continuing tant associate director for military in Livermore is high. -An average of three to five new technology.'' to reduce size and weight. systems, recently summed up the Carter's Bomb lab's confidence in its future. The only blight to the otherwise "When you realize the wealth of optimistic atmosphere among the developments that are possible in weapons scientists is the bomb that the nuclear arena," he says, "it is
House committee interviews Ray 
President Carter dropped in Feb­hard to foresee an end to our ruary when he suggested the work." 
PETROS, Tenn. [AP] -James portion of the committee's probe. guilty, talked only about his own Earl Ray met for more than two "I don't see any great surprise actions or actions of which he had hours Tuesday with attorneys for information coming out until .direct knowledge. 
Wildcat strike at Chrysler 
the House Assassinations Commit-later," said Jack Kershaw, Ray's "He really does not know what . tee to give a preliminary interview attorney. "If there are any anybody else did," Kershaw said. 

shows no improvement
on his role in the murder of the surprises, they will not be the The meeting took place in .the 
Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. result of Ray's direct information." office of the captain of the guard at INDIANAPOLIS [AP] -A wildcat The company's suit against theHis attorney said afterward that Neither Kershaw nor Sprague the maximum-security cellblock at strike by some 3100 hourly workers union, filed Monday mFederal courtRay was not under oath, but that he revealed specific questions or Brushy Mountain State Prison at a Chrysler Corp. electrical plant seeks $1.5 million in punitiveanswered all questions put to him answers from the interview. here. Ray is serving a 99-year in Indianapolis went into its fourth damages, $200,000 in real damageby Richard Sprague, the commit­Kershaw said Ray, who claims sentence in the prison after plead­day yesterday with no sign of from the first day the plant wasRobert ing guilty to shooting King in
tee's chief counsel, and innocence in th~ King assassina­shut down, and another $238,000 in
ending.
Lehner, who is handling the King tion despite his earlier plea of Memphis on April 4, 1968. 
Chrysler won a temporary court real damage for each additional day injunction Tuesday morning limit­of the strike. ing picketing at the facility, which Meanwhile, Chrysler faces a produces a variety of electrical legitimate strike deadline later this 
parts. week in St. Louis, Mo. UAW Local In addition, the company has 136, which represents some 4500 
High school students considering who are considering a career in which begins June 20. filed a $2 million and mounting hourly workers at the St. Louis car a career in architecture might test architecture. The program will The "Alumni Residencies" pro-damage suit against United Auto assembly plant, has threatened to their interest by enrolling in a offer both classroom and studio gram offers graduates of the De-Workers Local1226 and its officers strike at 10 a.m. Friday if a new summer minicourse at ·Notre experience to expose participants partment of Architecture an oppor-for striking in violation of the local contract is not reached by Dame, while architecture alumni to the nature of architecture and tunity to return any time during company's labor agreement with then. might try returning to the class­the opportunities, responsibilities summer session, June 20 to Aug. 5, the union. room, this time to teach the class. and skills involved in the contem­to share their professional exper-The walkout began last Friday The plant, which used to build 
The opportunities come through porary practice of the profession. iences with undergraduate stu-following a fight between a fore-compact Plymouth, Volares and two new offerings of the Depart­dents. man and union steward. The Dodge Aspens, currently is closed ment of Architecture. Students also will get a taste of For further information on either international union in Detroit has for a model changeover. When it 
"An Introduction to Architec­campus life, experiencing social, program, contact the Department said the fight was not a proper reopens it will build the new ture" is intended for high school athletic and residence hall activ­of Architecture, University of Notre reasori for a strike, and has urged mid-size Chrysler LeBaron and juniors, seniors, and graduates ities during the two-week program Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. the workers back onto the job. Dodge Diplomat models. 
ND offers summer minicourse 
-.---:-o-::------------F~~~=a-:::-~60, 1
Flaherty's record causes 1J :~• d Ad new last June, seldom used, call 1 
I
~~~:NI~J:~D~ENCJ!'~E ~:DI~~~ CIOSSb Je S ~~~~~m~~~~~~2_3_:.__ TION PROGRAM WED., 23rd, 7:30 4-Bedroom house, furnished and NEW, NEVER USED MIRAND 35
questioning in Senate P.M. O'SHAG 110. fully carpeted in 1976. $340.00 per MM DX-3 F 1.8 Lens, call Dan 3315. I
---------------month. Gas and electric nbt ---------------­
WASHINGTON [AP] -A contro­gation plan and that its authority to 1Accurate, Fast Typing. Mrs. Don-included. 914 Grandview. Near PERSONALS I oho, 232-0746. Hours--Ba.m. to Colfax School on LWW. Call
versy ofer Pittsburgh Mayor Peter do so had been upheld by the state 
F. Flaherty's civil rights record supreme court. l~~_:_____________ ~~~~_:n~~_::-~~_!~~n_:_ QUICK AS A DODO IS COMING. I 
quickly broke out today at the start He said that since the commis­Will teach you flute in your spare ATTNFARLEY-:-v;;-;;rylou •
of Senate hearings on his nomina­sion's directive had been upheld by ~~:.....~~~~.:..._8~1~-----LOST AND FOUND Walsh, Barb "Buelah" Berhalter I tion to be deputy attorney general. the court, Flaherty was in clear I Logan Center Volunteers: Field trip Found: One puppy around Lewis this Thursday! I defiance of the law. to Museum of Science & Industry, Hall, call 7607. W;,;t~th,;-kthe-;~fr-;;-m-c;;~n-Flaherty testified he has always Sat., 8:30a.m.-6:30p.m. We need ---------------h h "d f ..n f f I 
lots of old and new volunteers. Any Med-blue ski jacket with an inside aug w 0 pat or my Cr-are rom
been as advocate of neighborh.ood However, Sens. Joseph Biden I 
I 
Questions. Sue Maude, 277-1182, pocket. Think lost in the vicinity of the bus station Sunday night. Thank
schools and has opposed massive (D-Del.) and William Scott (R-Va.) 
Jim Scott, 287-3975. the bars. Call 4184 SMC, Ziggy. ~0~_!~~~~-=-i~_!~~~~~­
forced busing. said they saw a distinction between 1
1NEEiDTYPING?-E-;~uta;"""i~. ~~;-~"d.~nd~;-~M~;dC:;;i"lie . To whom it may concern -Dentures
an order of the commission and an

He assured the Judiciary Com -Professional Typing Service. 85 and Shepard, 8 mos., 601bs., 287-will slip and socks may fall, But 1
mittee, however, that he would order by a court. cents a page, 232_0898 . 7740 . about fotografy Paul Clevenger 
Mitchell testified that Flaherty, I ---------------knows all(?) Best of luck asobey and enforce the law regard­I Don't miss Woody Allen tonite in Photography Editor! -CM. 1 less of his personal views. in his appearance before the school 'Sleeper' 7,9,11. Engineering Aud. Found: a calculator in the Engineer----------------I
board, urged it to reject any ONLY A BUCK!! ing Auditorium on Wednesday be-Need a friend? ND-SMC Hotline,Clarence Mitchell, director of the desegregation plan that involved I fore break, 1136. 4-4311 open nights. 
Washington bureau of the Nationa! ~~;~E~o~ow~E"~;;m------------------------------­
forced busing and that would 1ic discounts year round S-:A.T.A. "Jayne--HAPPY BIRTHDAY--I 1 Association for the Advancement of 
disrupt neighborhood schools. 4228 First, Tucker, Ga. 30084 (800) WANTED hope you had a great vacation--It Colored People, (NAACP), led off 1
was great to see you --With lots of the opposition to Flaherty's nomi­"Those are words used to in­I 284-9°82· Wanted: Married student couple love --Wash. U. Gerk" I (one child okay) to live in, and --------------­
flame the issue," Mitchell said. ---------------be J 
nation. companions to 3 teen-age boys. YOU CAN'T MISS QUICK AS A
"Those are words of art from the 
I 

FOR RENT Room and board in exchange. DODO.He testified that Flaherty, in lexicon of hate, and I believe he Would be required to cook family --------------­
Furnished, 4-bedroom house for dinner, do light housework and do Augusta has a hot ticket who's1972, went before the Pittsburgh used them for that purpose." I I rent next September. Phone 277-minor house repairs. Exchange Birthday is today. How will she 1
school board and advocated defi­
He said the commission's order 

~~:.....<~.:_~.:_~-------references. Call 288·1411 or 291-spend it with an MBA? I 
ance of orders to desegregate the to the school board to draw up a 1814. Ask for Joan. --------------­
city schools. Rooms for rent this summer. very ---------------JEANNE, There was so much 1 I
desegregation plan did not require I and few Super Job _ wanted But
reasonable, just a blocks Summer Part-time to say the other night, Mitchell said that Flaherty had the use of busing. I from Notre Dame. Phone 277-3604. lifeguard needed to work with three when 1 saw you the words just used his office as mayor to "create ---------------female lifeguards at country club in wouldn't come. HELLO and a I"Mayor :'laherty was opposed to I Rent my upstairs. $40.00 per Memphis, Tennessee. Must be a belated HAPPY BIRTH DAY. Rich racial animosity and delay school desegregatiLp and used the cover ~~~-~~~3~~~-----male at least six feet tall, a good I
desegregation." swimmer, and responsible. Call --------------­
of busing to (eep it from happen­I
4 Bedrooms, living room, dining (90 1) 683-51 OJ or write P.O. Box 205 Happy Birthday Terri, from the Flaherty had testified earlier that ing." Mitchf 11 said. I room, kitchen. Utilities paid. $100 Lyons Hall, for interview. Florida Six plus Pat and Katie. 
there was no court order for school Flaherty .vas presented to the I ~~~~~~~~o_:~-~~~~ ---------------;;~8irti;d~"T;,:.:;:--~;;~w I 
busing at the time he appeared committee oy Sen. Richard I Two Bedroo~ house to rent. FOR SALE that you're 21, you'll figure out who 
before the board. Schweiker. (R-Pa.), who noted that Summer and ,or school year. 1012 put salt in your bed I 
Ed~y Street. $120 p~r month plus For Sate; . Guitar Gibson SG, __________:______
Mitchell said, however. that the Flaherty had run against him for utohtoes.. Call Oddtes Harns at Walnut ftntsh,_ exceHent condition, HAppy B 1RTH DAy KAREN I Pennsylvania Human Relations the Senate in 1974. He said I 232-8563. nreat aclton, Btxby p1ece. Call Jim. RANDOLPH, FROM HIS HOME+ Commission had directed the Flaherty had been a fair opponent 
·---------------~~.:______________ TOWN HON!=Y, DEB.
school board to prepare a desegre-and had run a clean campaign. 
' I .....~~. ........... I ,___, _____ ~--.-·~.,..._ .......... -.~-......-.... -. ...~·-···• .. •••••••..........., .. .._............ " , .......~, •• ••••••!!!.•• •. •••·•!"••••••."1.o••-•...-,...-... , ~~·r~ ...·-~-.•. .,..~ ........... .,......._.,...p~ ...... -~................ ..,.<o; ,,._...
•------------------•••••m••J 



Jack Lloyd: man behin~ the voice 
by Paul Stevenson Sports Editor 

The name Jack Lloyd may not be significant to many people, but his voice is one that any avid Irish sports enthusiast has heard since 1964. Lloyd is the voice of Notre Dame athletics. 
The 1976-77 basketball campaign marked the thirteenth season in which Lloyd has served as public address announcer for the cagers. In addition, during his reign as Notre Dame's announcer, he has served as ring announcer for the Bengal Bouts and as media announcer in the Notre Dame football press box. This season also found Lloyd debuting as the voice of Irish hockey. 
Lloyd, a 1958 graduate of Notre Dame, operates an independent insurance agency that was started by his grandfather in 1917. After his graduation, Lloyd entered the service where he finished as a major in the artillery division. 
In 1959, Lloyd returned to South Bend and started working at his present insurance agency. In the same year, he married his wife Linda and began coaching basket­ball at the now defunct St. Mary's campus grade school. 
In his five year coaching career at St. Mary's, Lloyd's teams did not finish below second place in their Catholic league. Lloyd's first year as head coach found him with only 15 boys trying out for the squad. in his final year in charge, he was faced with the task of trimming a 80 man tryout squad down to 20. · 
Starting in 1960, Lloyd announced high school basketball and football on WJVA, and AM counterpart of WRBR FM. Frank Crosiar,football staduim announcer for Notre Dame, was the man that got Lloyd involved in announcing for WJVA. At the time, Crosiar was the sports director at the station. 
However, personal contacts at the University brought Lloyd from high school sports back to du lac. "John Jordan (Notre Dame's head basketball coach from 1951-52 to 1963-64) and my dad were very close friends, " Lloyd explained. "When I was home from high school, my father and I traveled with the team. Through Coach Jordan I met John Dee. When Dee replaced Jordan, he asked me to do the announcing for Notre Dame basketball since he knew I had some experience." 
The Notre Dame announcer is probobly best known for his bas­ketball commentary and the nick­
.. names he bestows upon the players during the course of a game. "El Sid" was the first name used in Irish basketball. The nickname was used for Sid Catlett, an idea which Lloyd originated. Now, Lloyd uses the members own nicknames. The man behind the voice will 


Frank LaGrotta 
Epilogue 
Sometimes, when trying to find the right words to describe a 
situation, the English language shows itself to be sorely inadequate. 
For instance; try telling someone who sweats his guts out for 40 
minutes only to lose a heartbreaker in the final seconds th:it he 
played a "nice game" or "there's always next year," and you'll 
find that you'll find that your words sound a bit shallow, to say the 
least. 
That's what it came down to on March 17 at College Park, Maryland where the Tarheels of North Carolina stole one from the Irish and sent Digger Phelps and his cagers back to South Bend to ''wait until next year.'' Basketball analysts could speculate for days about what factors led to the Irish defeat ... and well they might. However, I choose to look at Notre Dame's 1976 cage campaign in a more positive light because the disappointment that accompanied that two-point loss was in no way indiCative of the type of season the Irish enjoyed; a season that saw them go 22-7 against one of the most awesome schedules in the country; a season filled with bright spots for Notre Dame and her Ioyals. 
For example, after the laudable season that Phelps and his boys racked up, memories of the inevitable doom that the so-called experts forecasted for the Irish back in November become clouded. (One preseason prognosticator airily pointed out that Notre Dame would do well to finish the season ranked in the top thirty.) Perhaps this pessimism was well-founded; after all, what could Digger be expected to do in light of losing three prospective starters in Adrian Dantley, Bill Laimbeer and Bernard Rencher, all after the recruiting deadline? Why it would take a miracle for the Irish to make even a respectable showing considering the calibre of competition they had to face. 

Never let it be said that miracles do not occur. Dave Batton and Bruce Flowers teamed with Toby Knight (who displayed a form on the court that established him as one of the top college basketball players in the country) to form a frontcourt who's play at times could be termed nothing less than miraculous. Whoever it was that smiled on the Irish frontcourt, grinned healthily on the back men. Freshman guard, Rich Branning brought a little California sunshine to the ACC in the form of superb ball-handling and dead-eye shooting. And Duck Williams? Well, there isn't a whole lot you can say about Duck ... his lightening-quick moves and sharpshooter's accuracy from, at times seemingly, anywhere on the court, said it all. The Irish bench showed itself to be deeper than Drake's Well with Bill Paterno providing a sure shot and some of the best defense in college basketball, while at guard Jeff Carpenter exhibited an exceptional ability to handle the ball as well as hustle that led to more than a few opponent turnovers. Swing-forward Bill Hanzlik displayed talent and desire that prompted Coach Phelps to label him, "the team's most improved player thoughout the season." 
Obviously, for the Irish to end their season, a season which saw them dump UCLA at Pauley Pavillion and send the number one Dons back to San Francisco mumbling "29 and 1," with a tough loss to a North Carolina team that had to struggle the better part of 40 minutes just to stay in the game, leaves a bitter tast in the mouths of many Notre Dame followers. Perhaps there is some comfort in noting that in an outstanding basketball game between two outstanding teams, Notre Dame, statistically and performance­wise,_J>tood out just a little bit more. 
Vince Lombardi has oft times been misquoted as saying, "Winning isn't the only thing ... it's EVERYTHING!" What the Green Bay Packer mentor actually told his team in 1966 was this; "Winning isn't everything...making the EFFORT to win is." If you buy the words of Lombardi, who incidently, had more than a little experience with winning, then you realize that two last-second Phil Ford free-throws did little to tarnish the overall success of the 1976 Irish Basketball team. 
attend a couple of pratices to see what names are being used at the · time and attempt to incorporate them into the action of a game. 
Yet, basketball is not the only sport dependent upon the Irish announcer. Football and hockey fill up Lloyd's hectic schedule. 
The most difficult sport to announce, Lloyd admitted, is foot­ball. "I began announcing in the football press box when Roger Valdiserri was appointed Sports Information Director at Notre Dame," Lloyd recalled. 
Different from basketball, in the football press box, Lloyd's announcing is without emotion, strictly monotone. "I find football more difficult because there are more activities going on around me, as well as more players to account for on the field," he remarked. 
"I don't enjoy announcing games as much as being a specta­tor. I'd much rather travel to an away game where I can just enjoy the sport of football." · 
Lloyd has also served as announ­cer for the Bengal Bouts, an event where he can be seen year after year introducing the boxers on the canvas. 
Tomorrow may be the beginning of a new realm of Lloyd announce­ments. March 24 marks the start of the NCAA fencing tournament which Lloyd might have the privi­lege of announcing. · 
Notre Dame athletics have been a part ~f Lloyd for the past 13 Although the name or the face may years. The marvel behind the . not mean a thing to Notre Dame microphone has expanded into followers, the voice cannot be almost every area of Irish sports. forgotten. 



Irish nine stumble in South 
The Notre Dame baseball team had a rough time on its journey to the south last week as they dropped eight of 12 contests to some experienced squads. The Irish had only a few days of outdoor practice before they traveled by bus to the warmer climate, and it showed. Their opponents were in their 15th and 20th games of the season. 
The trip began very optimistical­ly for coach Kelly's team as they won an opening day twinbill from freshman from New York and will be counted on heavily as a fourth starter this season. Third baseman Rick Greenwell led the Irish at the plate with two singles good for three RBI's. Rick Pullano, who hit over .340 on the trip, also had a pair of hits. 
Notre Dame's most offensive performance of the trip was a 9-5 verdict over the University of Illinois at Chicago Circle. Junior outfielder Bill Starr lived up to his name, leading the Irish atthe plate with a three-run homer and three runs scored. Dave DeFacci also homered in the nine-hit attack. 
Weather permitting, the Irish will open their regular spring season this Thursday at At. Joseph College of Renselear. Kelly's club will then travel to Northern Illinois for a Sunday doubleheader. The first home game at Kline Field is Tuesday, April 5, against the Bethel Pilates. 

Christian Brothers College of Tennessee. Don Wolfe, who spent the fall semester in Rome, threw a complete game three-hitter in the S-2 Irish victory. Mike Galloway 

%Observer

and Jim Abbatiello paced the Irish 
.. 

offense with a pair of hits. 
Jim Sholl picked up where he left off last fall by pitching a shutout in the second game of the double­header. The righthander, who hurled 23 scoreless innings last fall, held CBC to only two hits and 
Sportsstruckout 11 in Notre Dame's 2-0 triumph. Mike Galloway again had two hits for the Irish. 
-. . 

Notre Dame then ran into some stiffer competition as they pro­

Notre Dame golfers finish 

ceeded to lose six in a row, due mainly to inexperienced pitching. Memphis State swept the Irish 12-0 

eighth in Miami Invitational 

and 11-6. Delta State proved they Coral Gables, Fla -The Notre 
play more than Women's Basket­Dame golf team opened its 1977 
ball as they took three games from campaign with the University of 
Notre Dame at mid-week. Jim Miami Invitational, a 72-hole event 
Sholl's pitching was a .bright spot in held over the spring break last 
the six-game streak, as he suffered week. The Irish golfers finished 
a heart-breaking 3-2 loss to Delta eighth in a field of 19 teams, with a 
State. He allowed only three hits total of 1,226. Florida Atlantic, a 
and a pair of earned runs. team that boasted a 27-year old 
Tom Slavirtsky and Mark Carney number-one player, captured the combined for a streak-ending five event with a total of 1,173. hitter in a S-4 victory over U. Tenn. Coach Noel O'Sullivan was Martin last Saturday. The later is a pleased with the team's perfor-
Golic captures fourth place 
Norman, Okla --Irish sophomore Oklahoma. Jackson was the de­Bob Golic finished fourth in the fending champion and repre~ented NCAA wrestling championships the United States at the Mo:1treal 
and in so doing established himself Olympics. as an All-American performer. Following the loss to Jackson, Golic was S-2 for the tournament Golic captured three decisions in and finished ther season 20-2 the consolation bracket but was 
overall. The Sporting News hono:r­topped by the tourney's number able mention All-American line­two seed, Harold Smith of Ken­backer has entered the National turkv in the ronsolation tina! that tournament undefeated and was derided third and fourth place. It named the most outstanding wrest­was the second NCAA tournament ler at the Midwest regionals. The appearance for Coach Ray Sepeta's Cleveland native advanced to the heavyweight, as he has captured quarter-finals via a pin and a two regional title;, in Ins two ~Tar;, decision only to be stopped by at Notre Dame and ha;, a JtJ-~-1 eventual champion Jim Jackson of career mark. 
fiance in a field dominated by schools from the warmer climates. "Michigan was the only school from the north that finished better than we did," noted the Irish mentor, "and they were down here for two weeks before the tourna­ment.'' The Wolverines finished seventh, just six shots ahead of the Irish. 
Senior Bob Belmonte led the way for Notre Dame posting a four round total of 304. The Muskegon, Michigan native carded the low round of the tourney for the Irish on the third day with a one-under par 
71. Sophomore Tim Saurs and freshman John Lundgren finished at 310. 
"We played on a tougher course this year than last," observed O'Sullivan, "the LeJeune Course is long and it seemed like it was a different guys turn each day to have the tough round. The potential is there, and we have the confidence as we look to our dual meets and the upcoming invita­tiona!s. 
The Irish will open the "north­ern" part of their schedule a week from tomorrow when Bradley Uni­versity will visit the Burke Memor­ial co~rse for a dual meet. 






