
Rukavina clarifies her proposal to abolish SA 
by MicheUe Leahy 
Mary Ruakvina, St. Mary's stu­dent body president, last night at the Student Assembly meeting, clarified the proposal she made at last Thursday's Board of Gover­nance meeting that the Student Assembly should be abolished. 
Rukavina said that her proposal made at the Board of Governance meeting was unfortunate and led to many misunderstandings. "The statement was thrown out for discussion purposes only," she noted. 
She added that she wanted it made clear that under no circum­stances can any type of action be taken concerning proposals without the vote of the Student Assembly. Rukavina said, "My error was that I didn't discuss this issue with the Student Assembly first." 
At last night's meeting Rukavina also called for a better working _ relationship between herself and the-Student Assembly. She said  about the function of the Assembly. She noted that the Assembly is the representative of the student body and is the only body which exercis­ advisory board. Cathy Hedges, vice president of the Executive Board, said the  
she wanted to make criteria sheets available to Assembly members concerning decisions on the alloca­tion of funds to various clubs, commissions, and social organiza­tions. Rukavina said she wanted to better educate the student body  es jurisdiction on voting matters. It is the only body which approves or vetoes proposals, budgets, and appointments of different commis­sioners. The Board of Governance, she added, has no voting power. She stressed that it is strictly an  meeting was very beneficial in that it resulted in a different attitude on the part of all members. Rukavina has called for a long working , session in January when the As­sembly will begin to work to improve its internal structure and clarify its role.  

Washington [AP] ~ Thousands of closed yesterday. Only a few of the nation's coal miners went on Ohio's 10,000 union members were strike yesterday without waiting for on the job as _scattered pickets the midnight expiration of their turned back the few who wanted to contract with the Bituminous Coal work. 
Operators Association (BCOA). Dan Fields of the West Virginia 
But bargaining continued on a Coal Association estimated 4,800 new contract, although United miners in that state got an early Mine Workers(UMW) President start on the strike, most of them in Arnold Miller vowed the miners southern West Virginia. Other would "stick out" a strike industry officials said 1,000 miners "until we win it." were off the job in the state's 
Most of the early walkouts northern panhandle. occurred in West Virginia and Privately Miller has said he Ohio. Kentucky mines reported foresees a strike of three months, full crews on the final shifts. and sources say the coal industry is 
Miller. who left" the negotiations prepared to accept a work stoppage 
and announced plans to go to West of at least a month. The effects of Virginia where many of the miners the strike are not expeded to be live. said he would return to the felt outside the industry for some talks whenever he saw signs of real time because of large stockpiles of progress. coal. 
Industry negotiator Joseph P. Miller accused the BCOA of Brennan said he would avoid trying to break the union, whose "public posturing" as the negotia­130,000 members produce about tions continued, but added, "Obvi­half of the nation's coal. ously in a strike situation things are But he said, "Our people in the much more difficult." coal fields are ready to take on this 
Morris Feibusch of the coal strike and stick it out until we win operators association said 28 of the it.'' approximately 1,800 mines operat­"All of our economic proposals ed by BCOA companies were are on the table, including one 
Knights of Columbus 1-ilall closes doors to outsid~ers 
by Rosemary MIUs called. 
Senior Staff Reporter Roemer said he wrote a letter to 
Medley stating the Council had no 
Knights of Columbus Hall will no permit for alcohol and that it was a longer be available for outside violation of University rules for activities, with rare exceptions. students to drink anywhere besides Dave Medley, ~rand knight of the private rooms and bars. 
Notre Dame Council, announced Medley has not yet r(:ceived the this decision last night in view of an letter, but commented, "We're incident last Friday night and two quite dedicated to the University other incidents this semester. standards. The Knights of Colum­All dates previously scheduled bus have strong_ relationship with by clubs have been cancelled. the University since 1910 and we wouldn't want to do anything
Friday night St. Edward's Hall disruptive to University stan­rented the building for a party. 
dards." ,According to James Roemer, Notre "The whole problem is theDame dean of students, the party booze," Roemer emphasized. "Igot out of hand. ''It was apparently see no reason not to lease thea joint Badin-St. Ed's party," building, but there is no wayRoemer said, "and some of the legally or under the ruh:s of duLac girls brought their own dates, and a that there can be alcohol there."
few students got miffed. I don't Roemer added that he did notknow if it was a result of the know of any legal problems fromdisappointment, but a lot of drink­outside the University "As far as Iing went on between 1 and 2 a.m., 
know, there were no complaintsand quite a bit of damage was made," he stated. Roemer alsodone." 
said that he did not hold theThe damage involved both the Council responsible for any dam­Council hall and St. Ed's dormi­age done to St. Ed's, but did tory. "Students got sick all over the mention that enough damage wasK of C," Roemer stated. "They incurred to upset both students and were definitely in an inebriated adults.
condition." 
Medley stated, "Wt!'re pretty 
Students carried the wildness upset about the damage, too. We back to St. Ed's, causing more had some property missing, so we damage. According to Roemer, a decided to curtail the whole thing." 
water fountain was torn from a Medley added that two other third-floor wall. Fire crackers were incidents occurred during the se­lit and thrown to the point where mester in which property in the Notre Dame Security had to be building was damaged or missing. 
calling for a substantial wage no work. I make this statement in tion workers. increase," he said. "I serve notice sorrow and regret because the A strike could be expected to last right now that the longer this strike strike will bring hardships and at least 10 days since the UMW's lasts, the less likely it will be that human tragedy." ratification procedure takes that we wiii reduce these demands." The UMW represents about long. 
Miners' wages now average over 130,000 min~rs at BCOA compan-The UMW has struck nine times 
$60 a day. ies. There are about 30,000 other in 19 previous contract oegotia­
Miiier said he was calling the UMW members at companies not tions. The longest walkout, . in strike against 130 BCOA compan-represented by the BCOA where 1946, lasted 59 days.ies and all other firms that have no contracts also are expiring. In Industry spokesman Feibusch contracts ratified. addition, there are about 20,000 reported that 28 of the approximat­
"With no contract there will be union members who are construe-[continued on page 2] 
Bilandic to Byrne:
'No more talking to govt.' 
Marti Hogan When Byrne approached Bilandic 
~ Editor-in-Chief in January with the taxi cab 
information, he told her to contact 
When Jane Byrne received an him later. Byrne requested to meet 
appointment making her the first with Bilandic in Sept. At that time 
woman in the former Chicago Bilandic told her, ''There will be no 
Mayor Richard Daley's cabinet in more talking to the federal govern­
1968, she was referred to as "the ment. Everything will be cleared 
powder puff in the cabinet." Now through the Corporation Counsel 
she is more likely to be called a William Quinlan and Budget Di­
powder keg. rector Edward Bedore"(who was at 
Byrne, former commissioner of the meeting according to Byrne). 
the Department of Consumer On the night of the election in 
Sale, Weights and Measures in November, Bilandic expressed con­
Chicago, droppped a political bomb cern to Byrne that the cab drivers 
yesterday afternoon when she stat­were threatening to strike and that 
ed that present mayor of Chicago, they should hold off on any action. 
Michael Bilandic, instructed her in Byrne said she tried to explain 
September not to talk to anyone in that the strike would be no real 
the federal government concerning threat since 7_6 percent of the 
the Chicago taxi cab rate increase drivers were not in the union and 
controversy. therefore would not strike. Byrne 
She also alleged that the figures later found out from Bilandic 
used to decide the rate increase that the strike would have been 
were tampered "';th at Bilandic's based on contract violations of the 
request. Taft-Hardy laws by leasing drivers. 
Although the topic of her speech A meeting at which Bilandic and 
which she delivered at St. Mary's Byrne were both present was set up 
Little Theater was "Women in to decide the course of action to 
Government-Are They Being take with the cab companies on the 
Used?" Byrne spent the majority of "pretense" of avoiding a strike. 
the· time discussing her involve­Jerry Feldman, president of the 
ment in the taxi cab controversy. Checker & Yellow Co. was also 
Because of her involvement, Bilan­present at the meeting. 
di~ fired her on Nov. 21. Followll!g the meeting, Feldman 
Byrne assumed her position in called Byrne and asked her, "What 
what she called "the taxi cab did Mike (Bilandic) mean when he 
section" in Dec. 1975. Soon after, told me to change my figures?" 
the Federal Trade Commission Byrne warned him not to change 
(FTC) called her office with inquir­his figures because she said she 
ies concerning the possible mono­had the accurate figures in the jane Byrne [Photo·by Ron Szot.] 
poly held by the Checker & Hansley and Kinier Report. Bilandic stating she had found 
Yellow Cab Co. in the city of Byrne said during another meet­discrepancies in the figures but 
Chicago. Instructed by Daley to ing, Bilandic stated that he wanted Bilandic did nothing. 
cooperate with them, Byrne hired Don Reuben, the attorney for the She then went to the U.S. 
an outside auditor to investigate Chicago Tribune to go over the Attorney General, and his office 
the company. The auditors found figures because he "didn't want began to investigate her story.She 
that 76 percent of the cab drivers any bad publicity." Byrne stated has since been fired by Bilandic 
for the Checker & Yellow were not she heard Bilandic say to Reuben, and is now spending all her time 
actually employed by the company. "Did you get hold of your people at with the U.S. Attorney's office. 
The drivers, instead, leased cabs the Tribune? I only wish we had "It's'unfortunate for the public, for 
and bought gas from the company them in the other papers." the government, for politics, for the 
splitting with it the money they After that meeting, Byrne said city administration and for me, " 
made. the hearings "greased past" in she said. 
The auditor's figures in the three days. Byrne then went to Byrne emphasized that "you 
Hansley and Kinier Report showed the federal government with her have to stick to your guns, and have 
that "if the leasing trend contin­information and was instructed to your facts or you won't make it." 
ued, there would be no reason for a "stay in the background" until she She added that although as com­
rate increase." could find any discrepancies in the missioner she had been sued "once 
Daley died Dec. 10, however, figures. a month, · you can't back down 
and Bilandic became acting mayor. On Nov. 8 she sent a memo to once you've started something.'· 


--~---­

the observer Tuesday, December 6, 1977 
,....News Briefs________,_ 
:=::::::=:::=::=:::========::=:::====::=:::====== l\Jational 
Experimental drug causes cancer 
WASHINGTON-A drug taken daily by tens of thousands of american troops in Vietnam as part of a medical experiment has been found to cause cancer in male rats in tests by the National cancer Institute. the drug, dapsone, is the principal trea~ment _for the estimated 12 million lepers throughout the world, mcludmg 2 200 in the United States. But Army doctors tested it on Gls in S~uth Vietnam as a preventive medicine for a severe form of malaria that was resistant to standard malaria pills. 

U.S. Steel orders layoffs 
CHICAGO [AP]-U.S. Steel said Monday it has begun a "small" layoff of employees at its plants in Chicago and Gary, Ind. 
The layoff was ordered because of a dip in orders, a U.S. Steel spokesman said. He termed it temporary, saying increased demand was expected in January. He said it would hit white-and blue-collar workers. 

Weather 
!he Indiana extended weather outlook for tomorrow through Saturday calls for a cold period. Chance of snow tomorrow and iriday. Lows in the teens tomorrown and Friday, zero to 10 north and teens south Saturday. Highs in the 20's. 
,...On Campus Today-~ 
10 am 
12:30 pm 
1:15pm 
4 pm 
4:30pm 
6:30pm 
7, 9, & 11 pm 7 pm 
7:l0 pm 
7:30pm 7:l0 pm 
9pm 
10pm 
10pm 
12:15 am 6:l0 am 
..,_...... ...... .... 
art sale, sponsored by the art dept. faculty, O'shaughnessy great hall 
colloquim, "noise and aggression" pat holleran, graduate student-psychology dept., rm 123 hagger hall, sponsored by the psychology dept. 
mini-course "introduction to interviewing tech­niques," oo'nnie katz, rm 509, mem. lib, spon.sored by social science training & research lab. 
lecture "the sense of being free," by prof. frithjof
bergm~nn,  univ. of mich.  lib. aud.  sponsored by  
univ. press  
seminar  "chromosome  structure,  repeated  dna  

sequenc~s & gene regulation in eucaryotes," dr. jack v. vaughn, miami univ. galvin aud, sponsored by bio. dept. 
lecture "operation of a tax department within an international accounting firm," jack staley, tax-part­ner-arthur young & co. rm 122 hayes healy, sponsored by acct. dept. 
film, "seven percent solution" eng. aud. $1 christmas tree lighting, feast of st. nich~las-lighting 
of univ. christmas tree. party followmg for all children, Iafortune INllroom eucharist, charismatic eucharist, log ch.Jpel, open to 
all meeting, college republicans, Iafortune aud. 1c meetin1, faculty senate, seminar room 202 cce nau, open stage, INsement of Iafortune advent prayer service, sponsored by campus 
ministry, sacred heart church meetin1, knights of columbus, k of c building nocturne nightflight, joan luttmer plays progressive 
rock and jazz, wsnd-fm 88.9 am this morning, jeff hebig, wsnd-am 640 



ICHRISTMAS BAZAARI 
~  ~  
ll  Dec 5, 6, & 7 1Qam -SPm  1I  
~ LeMons LobbyiICandy, Ceramics, I Xmas Decorations,  ~ ~ I !  

· Many more gift items! 
....................,...............__...................,.....,..~ ......~....re..............~ 
~rm 
.­_\.,-...... , -.............. ""' .......... '·.·.c.~ ...... (. ............. , ..... to. 
-....,............_ .................................................~~,.~..,..i 
SMC Social Commission  \  
is sponsoring the annual  ~  
~  

Vance to visit Middle East 
WASHINGTON (AP] -Secretary ' of State Cyrus R. Vance, resuming the U.S. initiative in the Middle East, will visit Arab and Israeli capitals beginning this weekend to assess prospects for a comprehen­sive peace settlement. 
Stops have been set for Egypt, Israel, Lebanon, Jordan and Saudi Arabia with only "technical prob­lems" holding up a visit to Syria as well, according to U.S. officials. 
U.S. officials said the Vance mission will seek to measure the chances that a comprehensive set­tlement could emerge from the Israeli-Egyptian overtures. 
Formal announcement of the trip, the third to the region by Vance in less than a year, is expected later at the State Depart­ment. Along with it, the adminis­tration will emphasize Vance's quest for "new insights" from Middle East leaders on the possi­bility of moving toward an over-all settlement. 
"Our commitment to peace re­quires us to remain involved in the peacemaking process," said one 

Miners strike 

[continued from page 1] ly 1,800 mines operated by BCOA companies were shut down yester­day by miners getting a head start on the strike. · But he said more miners were working than had been expected on the last day of the expiring con­tract. He attributed the number of mines still open to a desire on the part of the miners to earn one more day's wages before the strike began. The most-immediate impact of a strike would be on the miners and their families. UMW miners would lose their daily wages of about $60 a day, and health benefits for themselves, their dependents and their retired colleagues also would be cut off. Industry officials say coal's best customers, utility plants and steel mills, have laid in stockpiles large enough to last several weeks. Government officials say a strike would not be the national problem it was in years past. Negotiations on a new contract to replace the existing three-year pact began on Oct. 6. Federal media­tors took charge of the discussions last week and managed to get the two sides back to the bargaining table on Friday. All sides reported over the weekend that there had been serious discussions on ''substantial issues." These include the union's demand for a limited right-to-strike over local issues at individual mines and its demand for refinanc­ing of its depleted health and pension funds. 
The Observer 11 pultllllaecl Men­day "'""''" FrldiY ox~t tlvnnt 
exam 811d vac.tiOII pertocts. Tbe Obnrver Is pultllslled lty tile students of Notrw Dome 811d Solnt M.,Ys con.... Subscriptions mey be purdlosed for UO per ye.or (SIO per nmostor) from The Observer, P.O. llox Q, Notre Dome, lndlono 46556. SOCIOftd Nil post..• pold, Notre Dame. 
Indiana, 46556. 
. The Observer 11 o ~miter of the AIIOCIOted Prell. All repro· ductlon nellts oro ntlerved. 
need resumes in a hurry? 
I 


insly·prints

the wiz of the printingbiz! 
rag bond 25-8 1/2 x 1r $2.55 203 N. Mam S ~nd 289-697 

American official here. He added 
that both Egypt and Israel enthusi­
astically welcort}ed the trip. 
U.S. officials· said details for a stop in Damascus, Syria, could not be worked out until the Syrians return from a conference in Tripoli, Libya where anti-Sadat Arabs met over the weekend. 
The American mediating role in the Middle East was scaled down last month by Egyptian President Anwar Sadat's dramatic mission to Jerusalem and then his call for • preliminary peace talks with Israeli Prime Minister Menahem Begin in Cairo in mid-December. 
The direct overture to the Jewish state has divided the Arab world, and the Carter administration tried to heal the rift by emphasizing its interest in a comprehensive settle­ment among all nations involved in the conflict. This was intended to ease concern in some Arab capitals that Sadat would reach a separate peace with the Jewish state. 
President Carter acknowledged at a news conference last W ednes­day that the United States was no longer the "dominant intermedi­ary" in the area. At the same time, he discarded the lukewarm support the United States had given Sadat's plan for a Cairo conference and he gave the plan a warm endorsement 
·"We want to be sure all the 
SPECIAL 
Middle East leaders fully under­stand why we consider the steps set in motion by Sadat are an impor­tant and constructive contribution to over-all peace-making," the offical said. 
Vance will fly to Cairo on Friday from Brussels after attending North Atlantic Treaty Organization discussions there. He will also meet with David Owen, the British foreign secretary, on proposals by Rhodesian Prime Minister Ian Smith to deal with black leaders in the breakaway British colony on a transition to black rule. 
*The Observer ' 
The Wizard of Oz: Paul Schappler Dorothy: Sandy Colson 
Tin Man: GregSolman and the "Legendary" Scarecrow Assorted Munchkins: "Coro­ner" Cushing, "Lollipopkid" Scribner, "Lullabye-Leaguer" Coleman, "Sleepyhead" Di­Valerio 
Night Munchkin: "The Ma­yor" Mike Bodle Cowardly lion: tom Nilsson Toto: Bob Varettoni Ad Layout: Debbie "I didn't really bite him" Westrope Uncle Henry: Ron Szot 



HOLIDAY RATES 
FOR 

NO I ST. MARY'S STUDENTS & FACULTY 
. Rent a full-size car for your holiday travels from South Bend and back. Return the car to South Bend for less than half-price! . $50 per week •.. 16 cents per mile. You pay for gas. . Round up your friends to make a full car and enioY the holidays at low cost! . Call or stop by to get full details and reserve your late-model, full-siz~ ttem car. 

232-5871 
Hem Rent-A-Car 710 N. Niles Ave. South Bend 






TED NUGENT 

Rape awareness subject of talk, film 
by Jean Powley St. Mary's Editor 

Rap<.' awareness and prevention will be the subject of a presentation and film tomorrow night in Carroll Hall, Madeleva from 6:30 to 8:30 
p.m. Sponsored by the St. Mary's Department of Student Affairs, the program is open to all members of the ND-SMC community. 
Mara Newman, president of both the Women's Committee on Sexual Assault and the Sex Offense Staff, and Lt. Joseph Molnar of the St. Joseph County Police Department will be there to make presentations on what rape is; different emotional responses to rape; myths concern­ing rape; the profile of a rapist; what procedures to follow if you or someone you know has been raped; and the medical and legal ramifica­tions of rape. 
Preventative and self-defense measures will be presented in the film "How to Say No to a Rapist ... 
HPC holds special meeting 
Tonight's Hall President Council meeting will be in Walsh Hall. The ad hoc committee will present their proposed Student Government constitution. Amendments and recommended changes to this proposed constitution will be considered in this special meeting, open to students, beginning at 6:30p.m. 
and Survtve." A question and answer period will follow the movie. In addition to Newman and Molnar, the legal advisor to the St. Joseph County Police Department will be present to answer questions about the prosecution of rapists. 
According to Barbara Van Eck, coordinator of the program and director of Holy Cross Hall, this week's presentation is the first part of the college's Rape Awareness and Prevention Effort (RAPE) which will continue next semester. 
Although it is still in the plan­ning stages, Van Eck said she hopes to bring films, prese:ntations and small group discussions to the dorms. She added that she wants to get a self-defense course, such as those offered by the dty and county police departments, on campus sometime in Feb~:uary or March. 
"We the Department of Student Affairs really feel committed to this. We have to start ope:ning up this topic to discussion. It has been a hush-hush subject for too long," Van Eck said. 
"There has been a Jot of talk about security and lighting, but it actually comes down to individual women. We have to b(: careful about where we go and what we do We must learn to protect our­selves," she added. 
Van Eck said the St. Mary's RAPE program was designed as a result of the rapes and attacks in the ND-SMC community this sem­ester. 

THE CAUCASIAN CHALK CIRCLE 
Brecht's Parable of j'Ustice 
belonging IRcerrber 7,3,8.9,10 
ata:OO p.m.. 

All seats $2.~i0 
O'Laughlin {$2 Std-Fac-St;aff)Au i rium, Phone: 284­

Do your Christmas shopping early at the Saint Mary's Christmas Bazaar this year. The Bazaar is set up on LeMans lobby. [Photo by Ron Szot.] 


Conclusions: only the beginning 
by Tony Pace Features Editor 

Editor's Note: Thls is the .6na1 installment of the three part series on the Human Sexuality report. This part deals with the national reaction to the report. 
The publication of the Human Se xuality report has triggered nation­al as well as local interest. Even before it had been publicly con­demned by the National Confer­ence of Catholic Bishops, the report had received criticism from many theological circles. 
Prior to its publication by the Catholic Theological Society of America, (CTSA) the Society found it necessary to revise and edit various portions of the text. The May 27, 1977 issue of the National CathoDe Reporter [NCR] noted that A "battle over the report, however, was in private conversations and board meetings closed to the public and press." The Catholic news­weekly reported that board mem­bers wanted to make sure the 

Who are you, telling us how to run our business? 
It takes a lot of confidence to come fresh out of school and begin telling us how to do things. 
On the other hand. it takes an un­usual company to provide the kind of environment where that can happen. but that is exactly the environment you·ll find 

We constantly search for people who have the ability to respond to chal­lenge and think for themselves, those 
tonite: 9-11 pm with the initiative and desire to seek al­ternatives, the skill and courage to con­vince others that there are better ways 
Open stage
and who aren't afraid to express their ideas. 

At Scott, we admire an aggressive stance because we are an aggressive company. You can make your own op­portunities with us ... and we'll prove it. coming Wednesday 
Contact your placement office 


The Final '77
for information . 


Jazz in the Nazz
.SCOTT 
an equal opportunity employer, m/f 

re~ort was on sound theological ground before accepting it for publication. 
Two members of the CTSA who commented on the study during this period of internal debate were Charles Curran and Fr. A very Dulles. Dulles, who was president of the CTSA last year, and Curran are both Jesuits. 
The same May 16 issue of the NCR quotes Dulles as saying "I doubt that they (the commission members) have taken any positions that haven't been taken by moral theologians writing in the field in the last decade." 
"They're not aiming to break new ground, but to synthesize material. Quite a number of confes­sors have been operating on these principles. (those described in the report)." 
The NCR article goes on to state that this approach to the report was "an attempt to avoid violent reac­tion from the hierarchy (of the Church)." 
At the same time, Curran was more concerned with whether the Society should receive the report or not and on what reasons they should base that decision. "What I would object to most strongly, "the NCR quotes Curran as saying, "would be if the motivating force for not receiving the document were the fears of the board of directors that such a document would be displeasing to the bishops or to the other constituencies of the society." 
In the same issue of the NCR, there is a separate article concern­ing theologians who were already disputing the findings of the re­port. The main dissenter was William May, an associate profes­sor of moral theology at Catholic University. May later collaborate at the DeSales School of Theology, to write a review of the Human Sexuality report which appeared in the June 17 issue of the NCR. 
The initial article concerning the criticism of May and other theologians reads, "it fails to consider the experience of Catholic 
married couples, the body of 
thought developed by theologians 
and philosophers and the very 
serious obligation to look behind 
the authoritative teachings of the 
Church for the reasons that can be 
supportive of them." 
The conclusion of the May and Harvey review of theHuman Sex­uality report says, "Although the values of compassion and sym­pathy which typify the work are surely necessary for the Christian, the book's underlying methodolgy, its understanding of human sexual­ity and its questionable scholarship render it an inadequate and mis­leading guide to sexual morality.'' 
Also in the June 17 issue of the NCR is a review by John Milhaven. Milhaven, a professor of religious studies at Brown University, states "They (the committee) have listen­ed respectfully and critically to the practical decisions of these people (those whom the committe inter­viewed) have made and are at peace with. They have come to their first-aid pastoral guidelines relying on intuitive discernment. They have done well." 
Milhaven continues, " ... in the face of concrete situations they come to solid, true answers al­though they cannot conceptualize the basic principles on which these answers logically depend. At its best, this is what the committee has done." 
Other reviews of the Human Sexuality report have appeared in the Oct. 31 issue of Christianity and Crisis and the fall issue of Communfo. The Communfo review is also written by May and Harvey. Essentially, it is similar to the review which they wrote for the NCR, but it is more fully devel­oped. 
The national debate over the report breaks simply into agree­ment or disagreement with the new, Jess than absolute, guidelines set forth. 
A letter printed in the June 17 issue of the NCR illustrates the position in agreemenJ with the 
'[continued on page 4] 


the obsaryar Tuesday. December 6, 1977 On Christianity 

Burtchaell, Gutting debate beliefs 
by Frank Laarfno 

Meanings and truths behind Christian belief and the values and morality of Christian lifestyles were among the topics of discussion at last night's philosophy colloquium in the Memorial Library Auditor­ium. Fr. James Burtchaell, profes­sor of theology, and Gary Gutting, associate professor of philosophy, presented contrasting views on contemporary theological philoso­phies to an enthusiastic crowd of 125. 
Gutting centered one argument on the necessity of aupportive evidence for religious beliefs. "A religious claim is either factual or symbolic," he said. "If it is symbolic, then Christian belief is merely paganistic. It is less exciting, and therefore less mean­ingful. This backs away from traditional Christian characteris­tics." 
''However, •· continued Gutting, "if the belief is factual, then the believer must provide evidence, like in any other claim. Where can this evidence be found?" 
Burtchaell maintained that phys­ical evidence is not necessary to prove Christian belief. ''There are ways of verification other than the calculation of measurable data," he said. "We must evaluate our beliefs by the way it satisfies all the 
questions that surround it: philo­
sophical, psychological, and socio­logical."Burtchaell stated that Christian belief is proven through the testi­mony of those who experienced religious phenomena. • 'Christian faith is measured with integrals within the human existence," he said. "This examination does not come through 'facts."' 
During the initial 45-minute dis­cussion period, Gutting also out­lined what he called "a dilemma of 
--·----------=-----" 
...;.;...__:_:~:..!--:........__....:...._ 

HPC initiates letter campaign 
The presidents of all of the women's residence halls, with the help of St. Ed's President Mike Roohan, have drafted a letter requesting women on campus to write to members of the Board of Trustees pointing out campus se­curity problems. The letter will be circulated in the women's dorms this week. 
Accordin~ 

results so far. Since the Board actually has the power to allocate money for security improvements, we feel that they are the ones to contact," she explained. 
The list of Board members was 

.If rou w•nt the re•l thing, not frozen or 
c•nned ... We c•lllt 
"Mexlc•n Food 
Supreme." 
D•llc.s loc.tion: 3071 Northwest Hwy 352•1570 I 

moral values: Does Christianity give us a way of life, a value system, in which dogma becomes unimportant? Or is a 'Christian way of life' simply one of loving other people?" 
"Christianity is committed to the removal of evil from the world," continued Gutting. "It strives to end a worldwide epidemic of misery. But is it right to devote all our resources to a lifestyle that turns its back on art and culture?" 
Burtchaell countered, stating 
that the Church does not find art and culture "worthless." Howev­er. he said the Church does not center itself around human a­chievement. 
"We often take very good activi­ties and use it as an excuse to be not-so-nice people,'' said Bur­tchaell. "We become wrapped up in what we become. Great artists often become absorbed by their cultural achievement, unable to set 

James Burtchaell, one of the lead ing speakers at the Philosophy 
· Colloquium addressed a sizeable crowd in the Library Auditorium last night. [Photo by Ron Szot.) 
it free. Christianity says there is no greater achievement than the crea­tion of one generous ·human be­ing." 
Subsequent questions and dis­cussions extended for over one hour. Gutting cited a major problem with Christianity as its image as only a moral system. 
"A moral claim does not state the world as it exists, but instead as it should be, • • Gutting said. ''Christianity seems to say the same thing. Therefore, is the modern view of Christianity simply one of a moral philosophy.?" 
In a later discussion, Burtchaell commented on the Christian view­point on evil. "ChrL~tians can't grow in love and justice in a world without malevolence," he said. 
"The Christian can't rely on a pleasant world. Instead, he turns evil into a learning experience. Christianity, unlike many philoso­phies, does not try to defeat evil. It concentrates on introducing good into the world." 
The colloquium was the result of a year-long effort by senior Thomas Merrigan. "There's such a vast dichotomy between these two view­points, I felt we had to bring them together," said Merrigan. "It's important that these viewpoints be brought out in this type of setting." 
Pre-Chrl·stmas rt I
a Sa e

starts today 

The annual Pre-Christmas Art 
Sale by Notre Dame faculty is 
scheduled for today and tomorrow 
in the Great Hall of O'Shaughnessy 
Hall. Recent works by faculty in a 
wide range of media will be 
available for sale from 10 a.m. to 4 
p.m. The public is invited. 
dent Nand-Kelly, the Hall Presi· tion, such as having security dent Council is asking women to guards carry walkie-talkies and write the letters in order to make changing the number of Security the Board of Trustees "aware of from 8666 to something easier to the fact that there is a problem with remember and dial." security on campus." 
Kelly encouraged women to"In our view," Kelly stated, write to Board members because"the present security and lighting "it seems like a lot of committees systems are not adequate. We feel have been formed to look into thethat many things could be done to problem, but there have been no 
divided between the women's halls so that approximately eight addres­ses will be given to each resident. 
The HPC suggests that students include in their letters such things as specific complaints about the present security situation and reco­mmendations for improvements, Kelly said. 
Today is. the feast ~f st. Nichola~. Tree blessing 
patron samt of children. Th1s J evening at 7p.m. the University Christmas tree will be blessed and Christmas 
lighted outside the front door of LaFortune. Immediately after-rt I d 
ward, St. Nicholas will be greeted pa Y P anne and honored by the local children at a Christmas party in LaFortune. ~~ The party, sponsored by Notre /•:'\_ Dame Student Government and ~ t • , Right to Life, will feature thej(·•· ~*---performance of a professional

.,!•.. ~ magician and other surprises. All ~~ .\: children, young or old, are wei­~ come to come. 


Human sexuality report 
[continued from page 3] report. It reads, "It was with great pleasure that I read the new report on sexuality from the Catholic Theological Society of America. We in the church, for too long, have suffered a lack of pastoral norms in the area of sexuality. Hopefully, this study will generate a new approach toward an understanding of the sorely needed and critical area." 
When the National Conference of Catholic Bishops issued its state­ment condemning the report, there were members of the doctrinal committee who made general state­ments concerning the status of sex­uality today and the church's role in the delineation of sexual moral­ity. 
One such priest is Auxiliary Bishop Daniel Pilarczyk of Cincin­nati. He stated that the behavior of Catholics in sexual matters is not "the way it ought to be. But the fact that the church's teaching is not always followed is no reason to stop teaching it." 
"We are not insensitive to the demands a Catholic theology makes on Catholics in the modern world; our concern is that they not try to resoond to those demands in ways contradictory to the teachings of the church." 
But Pilarczyk said that there would be no attempt to prevent the future publication of the report. He said, "It would be overkill to take one book of this nature and come in with excommunication, censoring, etc." 
Bishop Walter Curtis of Bridge­port, CT added, "I don't think the book will continue such sales once the bishops' position becomes known.'' 

ADVENT 
PRAYER 
SERVICE 
10 p.m. Tuesday. December 6 th 
Sacred Heart Church 
A SHORT SERVICE OF PRAYER WITH AN ADVENT THEME 
PRIESTS AVAILABLE AFTERWARDS FOR THOSE WHO WISH TO RECEIVE THE SACRAMENT OF PENANCE 
sponsored by cart1lus ministry 
\*************************************************** 



! I FOUND IT! ! 
* * 
~ at the ~ 
*

! NOTRE DAME APARTMENTS ~ 
* * 
* * 
E CLOSE TO CAMPUS! ~ t APARTMENTS STll..L AVAILABLE ~ ~ IMMEDIATE OCCUPANCY ~ 
* *
E 2 bedrooms -completely furnished ~ t complete kitchen Hnd dining room t 
* ~ $280 -300/ ~onth up to 4 students !* ; ·call Candy at 233-6363 or 234-6647 * "*******************************.....***************~ 

,· 

Case Western receives humanities endowment 
by Bob Brink Ass't. Managing Editor 
The National Endowment for the Humanities has awarded a grant of $160,000 to the Case Western Ruerve University in Cleveland for the purpose of sponsoring a ''Re­gional History Day" next spring. The program will involve students on the high school and junior high levels throughout Ohio, Kentucky and Indiana. 
Initially, the program will consist of contests on the district level and then subsequent contests on state­wide and regional levels. Heading the program for the local third congressional district of Indiana are Vincent DeSantis, professor of history at Notre Dame, and Jim Cierzniak, social studies chairman at Penn High School in Mishawaka. 
''The purpose of the History Day," according to DeSantis, "is to inspire and revive interest in American history. Over the past few years there's been a decline in interest on the part of students around the country." 
The topic for the program will be "Energy: Its Impact on History." Students are asked to emphasize the social and cultural role that energy has played in American history. Their projects, for exam­ple, might discuss the historical development of energy resources and technology, the effects techno­logical change has had for man, or the social and cultural changes that have resulted because of the devel­opment of energy resources and technology, the effects technologic­al change has had for mar., o:: the 
att. Hungry SMC Students 


XA\\A\J( 113A\~t()ll Jltl[****************"'k 
DECEMBER 8 4:30-6:15 SMC DINING HALL ( SIGN UP PRIOR IN DINING HALL) 
OC & Day -students FREE Mass in Loretto following at 7 pm 



Add leadership 
to your 


college schedule. 

College military science courses are courses in leadership development. They offer you management experiences which will benefit you in any career, civilian or military. 
You can take the first courses as a freshman or sophomore without obligation. Advanced courses, in your junior and senior years, lead you to a position of responsibility as an officer in the active Army or Reserves. 
As an Army ROTC student, you'll also have the opportunity to compete for 3 and 2-year full tuition scholarships. And you'll earn near­ly $2000 during your last 2 years of college. 
Don't wait until after college to get practical, management experience. Add leadership to your class schedule now. 
ARMYROT'C. 
LEARN WHAT IT TAKES TO LJEAD.1 ; 
For details, contact: ., 
Major John MacNeill . 219-283-6264/6265 ' 
social and cultural changes that have resulted because of the deve­lopment of new energy sources. 
-DeSantis said he considers this topic to be very appropriate. ''Next to inflation," he said, "energy is the single most important problem the nation confront. It will be interesting to see what the studlents do with it." 
The Regional History Day pro­gram will be held locally at ll'enn High School on April 1, 1978. History teachers throughout the area have been notified about the effort. "It's up to them to bring it to the attention of their students," said DeSantis. 
DeSantis commented that he was unsure about both the statistical response and the creative response the project will receive. ''This is the first time this has been done in Indiana," he said. "I don't know how many students we'll have participating in it, or what's ,going to come from it. I understand! it to be similar to a science fair. Maybe students will present physical things they've constructed, put on plays, or submit papers." 
There will be judges to clecide upon the best projects, and prizes will be awarded to the winners to encourage further interest in study­ing history. 
The National Endowment for the Humanities, which is sponsoring the Regional History Day Youth Project, is the chief cultural ~~gency of the federal government. Us goal is to award grants funding pro­grams that support education and scholarship in the humanities. 

Medical schools accept most ND grads 
by Patrick E. C'..ole Special Projects Editor 
EDITOR'S NOTE: This Is the first of a three-part series explo&g the pre-professional studies program at the University. Today's story wUI look at how the program Is coordi­nated. Tomorrow's story will exam­Ine how students view preprofes­sional studies. The last part wUI illustrate how various medical schools admit prospective doctors. 
Right now, you're going to take a true-false quiz about oneof themost notorious student fraternities on campus, the pre-meds: *Most pre-meds spend nine to ten hours each day studying In the Ubrary. Probably false. Many high achieving students here on campus to enter medical school spend about four hours each for their classes. *Notre Dame's pre-med program Is ranked In the top ten among major undergraduate programs at private universities. Perhaps this is true. Although there is not official ranking of preprofessional pro­grams, the highly competitive medical schools consider Notre Dame's applicants to be high-qual­ity students. 
If you want to go to medical or dental school, you have to declare a major In the Department of Prepro­fessional Studies. False. In fact, a student can major in biology, chemistry, physics--even history or English--just so he meets the 
SEND THE SPIRIT OF CHRISTMAS! 
The next best thing to a present...
*The Observer Christmas issue Personals 
science requirements prescribed by the medical school he or she wants to enter. *After the freshman year, about half of the preprofessional studies Intents transfer to another depart­ment or to another college of the University. Absolutely false. At the beginning of the sophomore year, the preprofessional studies depart­ment will receive about 200 stu­dents; about 25 of these students will leave the program at the end of the sophomore year. 
If it seems that everyone you meet is pre-med or thinking about going to medical or dental school, it's no wonder that the Preprofes­sional Studies department is .the largest in the University. Nearly 750 students are enrolled in this department and the Arts and Letters Preprofessional Studies. This figure does not include those students aspiring to be doctors or 


KEN-·S DEN 
--HAIR STYLING -­MEN & WOMEN ACROSS FROM 100 CENTER (LINCOLNWAY WEST IN MI~HAWAKA). PHONE 255-6500 appointments preferred 
dentists enrolled in other depart­ments. 
Whatever the rei!Sons may be for the flight to medical schools by students here at Notre Dame, the majority do get their wish at the end of four years of hard work; the medical school letter of accept­ance. In fact, about 70 percent of Notre Daq~.e students applying to medical school get accepted, ac­cording to figures released by the University. The national average of undergraduate acceptance is about 30 percent. 
In 1977, 148 (72 percent) of the 204 Notre Dame graduates who applied to medical school were accepted. In 1976, 77 percent were accepted to medical schools. Most of the 67 medical schools which issued 218 acceptances to Notre Dame students accepted only one to three students from each school. 
[Continued on page 7) 

Santa 
Need G.A. tickets to the Cotton Bowl. (Help yourself to a beer in the refriger­ator.) Stevie 

the ObS8fY8[ Tuesday, December 6, 1977 
To receive award tonight 
Joyce named 'Distinguished American' 

by Mike Kenahan Staff Reporter 
In what Jimmie McDowell, Exe­cutive Director of the National Football Foundation and Hall of Fame, described as a "big night for Notre Dame," Fr. Edmund P. Joyce, Notre Dame executive vice president will be honored tonight at the Foundation's 20th annual awards dinner in New York City's Waldorf Astoria Hotel. 
Joyce, who will be receiving the Foundation's "Distinguished American Award," will also be joined in the honoring by former Notre Dame All-American Ziggy Czarobski and David Vinson, Notre Dame's 6-2, 236 pound senior offensive guard from Liberty, Tx. 
Czarobski will be officially induc­ted as a member of the College Hall of Fame, while Vinson will be honored as one of the Foundation's eleven college senior scholar­athletes. Vinson is a Dean's List student enrolled in the College of Science's pre-med program. 
Fr. Theodore M. Hesburgh, University president, who received the "Distinguished American Award" in 1975, commented that, ·'I felt all along Fr. Joyce should have received it at that time 
'Young Execs' 
ling Equipment Distributors Asso­ciation will hold a "Young Execu­tive's Forum" at Notre Dame tomorrow through Friday. Six faculty members will participate in a series of conferences and work­shop sessions. 
Speakers will include Salvatore Bella, professor of management, · "Contemporary Techniques for More Effective Communication;" John Malone, professor of mar­keting, "Keys to Successful Opera­tions Management;" D. Chris Anderson, professor of psychology, "The Skills of Behavior Manage­ment;" C. Joseph Sequin, chair­man of the Department of Manage­ment, "How to Maximize on Your Own Leadership Potential;" Kenneth Milani, professor of accountancy, "Creative Budgeting Techniques;" and William Sexton, a· sociate professor of -business organization, "Developing Per­sonal Confidence and Competence as an Executive." 

The 
.n~run 


ISjn! 
Ski Half Price talk to us I 
10,o/o studef!t, discount on equlpl'll!nt 

In Sportsaafti at S r1 Center 
*think snow
~ski shops, inc. 272·5300 51400 us 31 

because he has made somuch more of a contribution in this area than I have." 
Hesburgh, w)to will be giving the invocation and benediction at the dinner, added that Joyce, "has been on of the people who has really been a standout for values and standards in intercollegiate athletics and the importance of academic standards, particularly in 
, parts of running what I call a clean operation." According to McDowell, the "Distinguished American Award" goes to "outstanding Americans who have a close association with the game. They don't have to be a former player." The Executive Director of the Foundation noted that the award is not presented every year but only on "special occasions." Joyce, who recently observed his 25th anniversary as the Univer­sity's executive vice president, will also be sharing the spotlight to­night with Gen. Lewis H. Wilson. Wilson will be receiving the "Gold Medal Award," the Foundation's 
major award which is given every year to a former football player. 
Wilson, who played at Millsaps College in Jackson, Ms., is cur­rently Commandant.of the U.S. Marine Corps. He was once awarded the Congressional Medal 
of  Honor  in  World  War  II  for  
services at Guam.  
Joyce will joing  a  long  list of  

"Distinguished American Award" winners. Besides Hesburgh, that list includes Gen. James Van Fleet, last year's winner, Bob Hope; Frank Boyden, headmaster of Deerfield Academy for SO years William Carpenter, Army football's "Lonely End," and the late Vin­cent Lombardi. 
Hailing from Spartenburg NC, Joyce enrolled at Notre Dame in 1933, where he majored in account­ing and received his Bachelor of Science degree, magna cum laude, four years later. After completing his theological studies at Holy Cross College in Washington, D.C.,Joyce was ordained to the priesthood in 1949 in Sacred Heart Church. 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-­
After his ordination, Joyce served as Notre Dame's vice pres­ident for business affairs and later as acting vice president. He was promoted to executive vice president in 1952 following a year of advanced study at Oxford University in England. 
Joyce is presently treasurer of Notre Dame and chairman of the University's Building Committee. He is best known, however, in his capacity as the chairman of the Faculty Board in Control of Athle­tics. He has been a trustee of the National Conference of Christians and Jews, is a director of the Institute for Educational Manage­ment at Cambridge MA., and is a trustee of Junior Achievement. 
Joyce was appointed by Presi­dent Eisenhower to serve on the Board of Visitors of the U.S. Naval Academy and was awarded the Air Force's "Exceptional Service Award," the highest award that the Air Force gives to civilians, for helping the Academy to set up their athletic program. 
The executive vice president 
-

holds honorary doctorates from t~e College of St. Thomas and Belmont Abbey College. He is presently a member of the new College Foot­ball Association, which promotes the interests of national football powers within the National Colle­giate Athletic Association. 
Joyce, who the Foundation calls "one of college football's most ardent champions and spokes­men," played a key role in Notte Dame's return to bowl competition after 45 years. He is also credited with the coordination and planning of the Athletic and Convocatio~ Center, so much so that the building will be renamed after him upon his retirement. 
In announcing Joyce's selection earlier this year, Vincent de Paul Draddy, the Foundation's chair­man was quoted in the Founda­tion's Footballetter as saying that "Father Joyce has been a great friend and supporter of the National Football Foundation and Hall of Fame and College football as well. He is truly a distinguished American.'' 
' --~----------------, 
• I 
: Ifyou can't fly Continental, I 
t 
t h a. I f1-. h I t 
~ 
!.~~~!'!heS~~!~dHand : you may ave ..o s ay a ..er sc 00 • ~~ 
f t 
t
f 

t
f

f t f t 
& 

' t 
& 
' 

& •t 
' t
f 

t
f 

& t 
' t t 
t
f 

& t 
' f t 
t
f 

t
t 

t 
• t
t 

t
t 

t
t 

t
t 

t
t 

tt t

Let us take you away with our economical discount fares • t

It doesn't take a course in economics
•t 
to know that Continental is the way to go
t 

for the holidays. Because we're pioneers in t the area of discount fares. t Like our Night Coach prices~ Fly at 
night and save a full 20% off the cost of
t 

a regular Day Coach ticket. t Or, if you're off to Los Angeles, youll t save a bundle with our Super Coach fare­
just $99 one way-and no restrictions! 
• And only Continental has Economy Fares everywhere we fly-save 10% just by 
•

t skipping a meal. No matter where you fly in Continental's
•• We really move our tail for you. t 
• 
•
• 
•
• 
CONTINENTAL AIRLINES :
•f •
The Proud Bird with the Golden Tail. 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~----~~~~~~~~~ 
USA-north, south, east or west-we've got 
t
a great schedule and a discount fare to fit your budget. And you'II still get the kind of t service Continental is famous for. 
For more information about our money­
•
t
saving discount fares, call your campus rep, travel agent, or Continental at 686-6500. else­t where in Illinois Toll Free at (800) 972-7896. 
t 
And remember, if you can't fly Continental, 
t
try to have a nice trip anyway. 
*Night Coach Faresgoodonlyon flights designated by Continental t leaving between 9:00PM and 7:00AM. 
t 
•
t 

1 
I 
Tuesday, December 6, 1977 the obsenrer 
7 ' 





Walters follows development of pre-meds 
!continued from page 5] How is Notre Dame doing it? 
Many of the answers lie on the second floor of the Niewland Sci­ence Hall and the man with those answers is Fr. Joseph L. Walter, chairman of the preprofessional studies department since 1970. Walter is also chairman of the Central Association for Health Profession Advisors, a national organization that acts as a Iiason between the health professions advisors and the American Associ­ation of Medical Colleges. 
W a1ter said that his work as a 
coordinator for the department 
beg_ins around the second semester 
the freshman year for those 
aspiring to become doctors. 'At that



r----------------,
Time is Runnina Out I
I •d H • S I 1
for Your H0 lI ay air ty je. I
I 
• 
I 
I
1 
I 
We are pleased to announce that Mr. Larry has joined the staff of The Knights. Expertly trained in m:!n's hairs1yling, he invi1es all friends and custom:!rs to visit him at The Knights and take advantage of 
this special offer. 

¥--r-"""7"-,.....___-..,...._~~l;:"--==r-"T-:r-;r-:::o-::=::"""=::::-"'"' S-""""::.:::::::.....o::::.._.L...::::~.......;:::.......::.~.;:::::::::o.~L-"-LA==-o:::....;:,.__,......:o.
The KnightS I 54533 Terrace Lane 
I 272-8471 Wed: 8:30-6:30I _ Thurs._& Fri._ 8:30-8:30
277 1691 Sat. 8.30 -5.30



L ------COUpon·-----·­
e : clas$ ,·f,•ed ads 
• • 
e 
NOTICES 

MORRISSEY LOAN FUND
• 
Student 
Lonas. $20-150. 1 day walt. 1 percent Interest. Due in :11 daf.· LaFor·
• 

tune Basement. M-F 11:15-1 :15. Last

• 
day for loans this semester -Dec. 14.


• • 
Logan volunteers and Interested dancers:• 
There's a Christmas dance Jgu won't • 
want to miss Dec. 7th. from 7: p.m. till 
10: p.m. In the Logan Cafeteria. Come
• and join In the fun just one block south of• the football stadium! Any questions call• Jeanne Conboy 284-4391 or Art Koebel 287·7509. • -----------------­EXPERIENCED TYPIST. For morelnfor­• matlon call 272-2819. • 

•• TENNIS PROS AND ASSISTANT PROS· 
• 
Seasonal 
and year-round clubs, good playing and teaching background. Call (301} 654·3770, or send 2 complete• resumes and 2~lctures to: Col. R. Reade,• W.T.S.• 8401 onnecticut Avenue, Suite• 1011, Cehvy Chase. MD 20015. 
• 

• 
NEED QUALITY TYPING? Executary,

• 
Inc. Professional Typini Service. IBM

• 
Correcting Selectrics. .85 per page• minimum. Resumes: $3.00 per page. Call 232-otl98. "When you want the best"
• 

• 
Neat accurate typlnj. of term papers,• manuscripts. Call 28 -5162.


• -----------------­
• WRITERS. Don't keep it in the desk drawer. Let the Book Publishing group (being formed second semester) consider your manuscript. Best length: 100 pages.• E. Christman, G142 Library. • 
• 

FOR RENT 

•• Apt. for rent, 2or 3persons, $165 or $180
• 
per month with utilities, 2 mi from• Cam~us, Seniors or grad. students. 28!t-215 after 11 p.m .
• 

• 
Two rooms In student house, for second 

• 
semester. Close to campus. Share rent & Found: Student basketball ticket. Identify 

• 
utilities. Call 288-{)()tk at 8227. 


••••••••••&~•••••e•••••• 
···············~·*· ­
-.··.-.....--.-.. •, ~ '\ ... ·.... --·-···s·-·--····----·-·­
time, I introduce them to the department," he said. "I indicate to the student what kind eof curric­ulum he or she should placn. Then during the summer after the first year I go over the student's folder (academic record) to see what I can learn about the student.'' 
Students in the preprofessional studies department must take 66 credits in calculus, organic chemis­try, biology, physics, physical chemistry, biochemistry and ana­lytical chemistry. Four elective courses in life sciences are required too. 
But for other students who major in Preprofessional Studies in the College of Arts and Letters or those majoring in a natural science 
LOST I FOUND 
Found: Asliver Tabby cat with br0W1'1 flea collar behind Badin. Call 8272. 
Lost: Notre Dame notebook, Law ruled, management, name on cover: Greg Meredith, call 8435. Reward. 
Lost: OVer 7days ago. Texas Instruments Sr-5111 calculator. Urgently needed. Call 1479. 
Found: Pair glasses near Fr. Sarin statue. Silver metal frames, tinted lenseiS, Bausch & Lomb case. Call1733. 
Lost: Would person who took green army coat from Library bar Thurs. night ploase return it. 8676. Reward. 
Found: One umbrella. Call Pete 288-2688 
Lost: Dark green down ski parka taken at Stepan Center last Saturday during Blues Festival, If seen or feeling guilty call J,ohn 6764. Please, It's cold outside! 
Lost: Pair wire rim glaasses. In vicinlt.f of Dillon Fir. night. If found, please call 288-2456. 
Lost: One blue ski jacket at 101 Pa11y. Please call Charles Wolf 233-6m. 
Lost: Texas Instrument TI-50A calcul~:tor in Room 118 Nieuwland Wed. 11-16·77 Please return. Tom 6713. 
Lost: Two silver rings: one is a wedd,ing ring with the inscription "To RMF from JEP !t-20"; the other has two silver balls on it. Will sell soul for return. Please contact Theresa at 1880, 226 Lewis. 
Lost: One silver pendant with turquoise stone and chain. Lost between LeMans and cafeteria. GREAT sentimental value. If found call 4·4563. · 

I I I 
student's junior year, I encourage
I the student to come in and talk to 
me and tell me about his inter-I ests," he said. "I want to know C about their general personality, 0 interests and motivation, so I can 
Q. get to know them." :::::J In the spring of the third year,8 students learn more about applica­
tion procedures, the Medical Col-I lege Admissions Test (MCAT), and interviewing techniques. 
• Walter also prepares recom-
I 
I 
1 mendations for the student's appli­cation to medical school. Usually the student takes a recommenda­tion form to a professor to fill out. The professor, after completing the form, sends it back to Walter who prepares an appraisal packet that 
includes his recommendation. 
I Then the packet is sent to the medical school upon the student's I 
request. "I encourage the student to write a two-page autobiography I togowithhisapplication," Walter.I indicated. The most common three letter 
intending to go to medical school, they must go to science preprofes­sional office to fill out an intention of application form to set up a file. 
Walter's job involves overseeing the student's performance while he or she is enrolled in the program. " During the student's sophomore year," Walter said, "I try to watch the student's academic curriculum and their progress, too. When a student is doing well, we send a letter complementing their per­formance. If the student is not doing so well, we'll notify the student of his performance. It's those students who are not doing so well we encourage a better aca­demic performance from during second semester. 
Walter said that after the first week of the student's junior year, a meeting is set up to explain to them how to apply to medical 
school. According to Walter, about 90 percent of the students at this point are medical school applicants and the remaining ten percent are those applying to dental school. "During the second semester the 
Found: Set of keys. Call 8227 to identify. 
Lost or taken: From North Dining Hall,
Thursday Dec. 1, a125 Calculus book and red 4-section notebook. Desperately need notebook for finals. No questions asked. Call Jim 1466 or stop by 252 Cav. 
Lost: Tan wallet before break. If found call Jim 8403. 
Lost: Beige raincoat, Morrissey Formal. I have yours. Call 5463. 
Lost: One SR-207 calculator In O'Shag on 
•Tuesday Nov. 29. Rm..342. Great sentimental value, call Mike 8742. 
Lost: At Junior Class Formal, a pinkie gold signet ring. Please call 4-4786. 
Lost: One maroon & white scarf In vicinity of NO apts, Sue 28!t-8793. 
WANTED 

Female student looking for apartment or house near campus to share for second semester. Call GaiI 284-4523. 
Help! NO guy must learn ballroom dance. John 1380. 
Need roommate to share apartment at Crestwood second semester (2 miles from campus) Call Vince at 288-1259 between 
11 :00 and midnight. 
NDstudent would like to sub-let Campus View apt. Cali 277·2552. 
Julio's has opening for delivery personnel either Sat. or Sun. or both days available. From 5p.m. to 2a.m. Must have own car. Guaranteed $3 per hour plus tips. Call 233·2354. 
FOR SALE 

1971 Capri, 89,000 mi. runs well, must sacrifice. $450. Call 4438. 
Owner moving must sell-mint condition Culbransen organ. Church or home use. Phone 234-9759. 
Sansui receiver, 100 watts, nll8!1s work: Teac reel to reel, Pioneer speakers, Garrard Turntable. Must se!l separatP. or together. 8338. 
• 

WHY PAY MORE?? Flanner Records has all $6.!181ist lp's only $4.50. All $7.9811st 
lp's only $5.29. Over 400 albums In stock. Phone orders accepted. FLANNER RE­CORDS, 322 Flanner, phone 2741. Hours, M-Thu 4-5, 6:30-8:00. Sun 2-3:30. 
PERSONALS 

Mark Ferrlng, A very late happy birthday. 
B 

Sundane & Max, & Mike, 
Thanks for the wild party Saturday night! Marlbeth 
Mrs. Jewett, I hear you do a mean hula dance. Debbie 
Need ride to Des Moines area after 10 
p.m. Dec. 20th. Cali Nancy 4375. 
Dr. Thompson, . I know you've been wondering who has been sending you ali of those wonderful personals, well, I must admit, .1 'm the one that did it. 
ATransportation Student 

B·bali Billy, _ Despite ali your attempts to Impress us with your "lack" of conceit, bad man· ners, and general obnoxiousness, we see through it. Happy 20th, old man. 
· Mutt & Jeff 

Nanci Kelly Is getting old, 20 years old last Wednesday. But she's not as old as Mimi. 
The "scrawny?" bearded one has a birthday December 19th. 
Cathy dislocated her ankle when she fell on the lea while blllng chased ·by -four passionate young men. 
That's not really what happened, her roommate bit her. Cathy is also getting shots for rabies now. 
Sad case, CW, Debbie told me all about it. You really should only monopolize one passionate young man at atime. Guess 
Chip Scanlon, Is It tme you're not afrtM m•" ···vmore? And I thought we would b~ !be !irut tn qol 
8 •• ~ ••••••••• Cl ••••••• %: 0 •••..,

<,.. 0 

abbreviation to medical school hopefuls is GPA. Without a re­spectable grade point average, a student's chance of acceptance to medical school is hampered. Ac­cording to Walter, a student with a 
3.5 grade point average is "virtual­ly assured of acceptance," to medical school. 
''lf the student is doing along the 
line of 3.2 work," Walter said, "I 
encourage him to do better--but his 
is, in fact doing good. If the student 
has a 3.0-3.2 average, I'd warn the 
student that acceptance is not 
certain and that he should consider 
alternatives--if the average is be­
low 3.0 I would strongly encourage . 
that the student consider other 
alternatives besides medicine or 
dentistry." 
Why such high standards for 
medical school admission? 
Again, the rush to medical 
schools is great, although national­
ly medical school applications have 
dropped slightly for the last two 
years. In 1975, for example, 15,351 
first-year medical students were 
selected from 42,303 applicants 
nationwide, according to the Amer­
ican Association of Medical Col­
leges. 
Nevertheless, competition is 
fierce. If a student applied to 
Stanford University School of Med­
icine for the entering class of 
1976-77 he would find that there 
were 5,117 applicants for 86 slots in 
the class. at the Vanderbilt Univer­
sity School of Medicine in Nash­
ville, 6,095 students applied for 
about 90 slots in the entering class 
of 1976-77. 
Despite the tremendous odds, 
Notre Dame's premedical and pre­· dental students can pat themselves on the back, because the program is producing good students. Said James P. Danehy, professor of chemistry, "There are two things that make the preprofessional pro­gram good here. First, Notre Dame is a well-respected, well-known private university. Because many students want to get in here, 
there's a high degree of selective­ness. Therefore, I'm identifying 
XMAS GREETINGS : In the Classlfleds for Friday's Christmas Issue at Observer e 
office, 3rd floor Lafortune, 10 words for e $1.00. Must be placed In person before 5 e 
p.m. Wednesday. • 
Hey AI Rutherford, e I don't raad Jill' mall. Wink! • Marce Mouse • 
Huh? •
• 

Bubbles McEntee • 
Eat blue frosting much? • 
3N Lewis &Crip e Prof. Marley, e Could you explain virgin curves again? e Some of the guys don't understand them. • 
Soils Class • 

~: Linda Slssor for Grand Larceny. : 
•

female student wanted to shclfe large 
home with teacher. Excellent neighbor· 
• 

hood, near Scottsdale Mall. 289--4514. 
Rumor has It there were more scores In Lyons TV Lounge than on the Highlights!

------------------• 
Nnd ride to Cleveland on DIC. 14, 15 II' 
•

16. Call Kathy 1264. 
• 

Merry Christmas Sara and Joe "cool." Happy Birthday Bosco Joe (You'll miss the shower this year)l Miss you bOth! Jo, Steve, Gary, Monica, Phred, Fish, Laurie, Paul, Mike, Nancy, Anne, Paul "the Freshman", etc. 
Munchkln: Although you are as obnox­
• 

Ious and rude (well, maybe not quite} as I 
• 

am, I still enjoyed myself Immensely 
•

Saturday night. I know you-wouiCll rather have been with Bruce, but at least I'm 
•

•shorter and soberer. 
JLB e
•
•
• 
• 


• 
• 1 

with the quality of students. There's no question about it, they're good students .. 
''Secondly, the program of pre­professional studies is something unique,'' Danehy explained. "Lawrence Baldinger, who was the dean of the College of Arts and Letters about 20 years ago, was interested in a method of preparing students for medical school. He started the notion of devising a program. Also he put emphasis on 
establishing a relationship with the medical schools." 
Walter attributes the success of the program partly to the long tradition of students going to medical school from Notre Dame. "We've been sending students from here to medical school since 1900," he said. "And these stu­dents have been doing well wher­ever they go.'' Additionally, Wal­ter said that success has resulted from medical schools labelling 
· Notre Dame as a strong program. Walter added, "I have a good rapport with the admissions offi­cers at many schools. They trust our appraisals (recommendations), our program and our caliber of students. We get fairly good stu­dents to begin with. So you can give him a good education." According to Walter, the Jeffer­son Medical College of Thomas Jefferson University in Philadel­phia, Pittsburgh Medical School and Georgetown Medical School have Notre Dame pre-med gradu­ates who are deans of those medical schools. "We have many of our former pre-meds who teach or who are administrators that work at some med schools. So they know about our program.'' Tomorrow: What the students think. 
Donate blood 
Residents of Pangborn and Sorin Halls are reminded that blood donations are today through Thursday at the Student Health 
Center. Anyone else interested in donating blood is also welcome . 

Sports Writer ing the Irish's 1.. argin to three 
. points, 35-32. This jumper brought 
The lnsh ~agers scored 17 un-the Lafayette bench to their feet answered pomt~ to break away but with them rose the ND student from an aggresstve Lafayette team body. The Irish finally came alive and coast to a 76-42 rout last night as Co-captain Don "Duck" Wil­at the ACC. . . . Iiams led the way with thr~e quick 
The final score was no tndtcatton scores. Lafayette called time out of how the game progresse~ as t~e but with little effect as Notre Dame lead changed. hands five t1mes tn kept up the barrage fighting the the first ten mmutes of the contest. Leopards off the boards for the first Dave Batton scored a reb?und goal time in the game. When Ness at the. 12:00 mark puttmg Notre fouled out at the 11:10 mark any Dame tn the lead f<!r good, 13-12. hope of a Lafayette upset was long From there the lrtsh went on to forgotten. ?utscor~ the Leopards 9-2 ex~end-. The Irish ?efense .was unr~lent­mg thetr lead .to a 24:14 m,argm. mg as Phelp s sent ~tm team mto a 
But everyttme Dtgger s crew full court press w1th Batton and looked ready to put the game aw~y Laimbeer taking turns blocking any Lafayette's Phil Ness started hts shots taken by players Williams did 
one man show. Notre Dame no~ steal ~he ball from. Coach Roy'. Wednesday traveling to North­

managed to hold on to a 31-22 Chtpman s team finally ended the halftime advantage on the merits of 6:50 scoreless drought when sub-their fine defensive J?lay. Ness stitute Dan King canned a 12 foot 
accounted for 16 of hts teams 22 jump shot to make the score 54-34 
points connecting on eight of 12 with seven minutes left in the shots from the floor while the rest contest. The Irish spent the of his teammates managed only remainder of the game trying to set two baskets in 18 attempts. The up superdunker Orlando Woolridge Irish hit on only 48 perc~nt of their with one of his crowd pleasing field goals attempts wtth most of specialties. tliese points coming from the Lafayette's Chipman summed up inside. the game best when he said 
Notre Dame continued their "When we lost Ness we lost a lot. sluggish play in the second half as When we were down by three Ness Lafayette opened the scoring with got his fourth foul and we lost two quick buckets pull!ng within control of the game." The Leo­seven at 33-26. lromcally, the pards tallied only 12 points after turnaround came when forward Ness' unhappy exit and their 42 Bob Spadafora hit a 15 footer with point total for the game was the 


Devine labels NO-Texas clash a potential classic 
lrib~~ su,,~ttim!,~..!!~~!.... ~!~.! fright, 76-42 
western and then its out to the west coast for the classic battle with UCLA. --------------· 
IRISH NOTES: ~~ Freshman phenom Kelly Tripucka cooled off with four points in last night's game taking no outside shots but shooting a perfect 4-4 from the charity line. Tripucka leads the team in field goal percentage connecting on a scintilating 79 percent. Duck Williams takes over the scoring lead at a 17.25 points per game clip. Rich Branning has a slightly sprained ankle and is Orlando Woolrich was up to his aerial antics again at the ACC, as 

questionable for Wednesday evidenced by this slam dunk. [Photo by Doug Christian.] 
night's game. 

Wrestlers grab eighth place in RIIWM 
DALLAS [AP]· Notre Dame 
Coach Dan Devine said Monday he 
feels the Fighting Irish would be a 
"contender" for the national 
college football championship if 
they defeat No. 1 ranked Texas in 
the Jan.2 Cotton Bowl Classic. 
"I don't want to get into a battle 
of words with other coached," said 
the coach of the nation's fifth­
ranked team which finished the 
regular season with a 10-1 record. 
"There are a lot of good teams but 
the best team in the United States 
is Texas. And Texas beat Okla­
homa and Arkansas. 
"We're just happy to take a shot 
at the champ." 
Devine. talking to local media from a telephone in St. Louis, Mo., where he was recruiting, told the Dallas-Fort Worth Media Associa­tion that "Texas is No. 1 and our job is to do the best we can. Then we'll let the polls take care of fhemselves.'' 
Devine praised Texas All­American running back Earl Camp­bell, saying "They tell me he is a fine young man as well as a great player. That puts him in the category of just under Sainthood." 
"It should be a great game," said Devine. "The Texas people are just as dedicated as we are and we're just as dedicated as they are. 
"It should be one of the all-time great bowl games." 

Devine said he was particularly excited about the trip because "I've never coached in the Cotton Bowl before." 
Notre Dame will come to Dallas on Dec.23. 
"We'll have Christmas in Dallas and enjoy it much the say we did theGator Bowl last year," said Devine. "We're planning a picture day on the morning of the 24th." 
Unbeaten Texas doesn't plan to come to Dallas until Dec. 30. It will be the third time this season that the Longhorns will play in the Cotton Bowl. Regular season games against Oklahoma and _ Southern Methodist were played in the 72,000 seat saucer. 
Devine said he wasn't certain whether Notre Dame would be wearing its lucky green outfit that the Fighting Irish wore in the upset of Southern California. 
"We'll wear whatever color the Cotton Bowl officials want us to wear but I suspect it will be white for better contrast on black and white television,'' said Devine. "Wewould prefer to wear green." 
Devine reiterated that he is not leaving Notre Dame although there has been speculation he might return to Missouri. 
''I have no intention of leaving Notre Dame," he said. "I intend to honor my contract which has two years on it.'' 
the Irish defeated Marquette 51-35 on March 7, 1959. 
On Notre Dame's side, Williams ended up high point man with 22 points and four steals followed by Batton's 13 markers nine re­bound, three blocked shots perfor­mance. It was Williams and Batton who finally broke down Lafayette's 1-3-1 zone defense. 
•'We are going to continue to see teams slow down the tempo of the game and play different zone defenses," explained Phelps. "But these kids do not lost their composure. Sometimes you are going to break away in the first half and sometimes it will come in the second half.' • 
Notre Dame will hit the road this 
by Brian Beglane 
Dave DiSabato certainly did not 
let the 10 hour car ride from South 
Bend to Rochester, N.Y., affect his 
performance at the Rochester In­
stitute Invitational Wrestling Tour­
nament this past weekend. The sophomore grappler took home the only first place finish for the Notre Dame wrestling team, his second first place crown in as many tournaments. 
Overall, the Fighting Irish grap­plers wound up eighth out of the 19 team field with 54-5 points. The University of Buffalo captured top team honors with 131 followed by Kent State (106) and Ohio State (102.25). Host school RIT ended 15th with 12 points. 
"I was satisfied with having three wrestlers get into the finals, but was a little disappointed that some of our other grapplers did not do as well as they might have," commented Ray Sepeta, head coach of Notre Dame. "They had the ability but are inexperienced and did not perform up to their full capabilities." 
Dave DiSabato was certainly an exception to this, winning the 126 pound weight division. He had won at the Indiana State Invita­tional Nov. 23, and after a slow start at the Biggy Munn Invitation­al now has two consecutive crowns under his belt. 
DiSabato defeated Jeff Woo of Ohio State in the final 9-4. En route to the championship match, Dave manhandled Phil Desmone of Oswego 10-1 and got by Bill Griffin of Potsdam and St. Lawrence's John Caulfield by identi'cal scores of 7-2. 
Pat McKillen and Mike Padden took home second place honors for the Irish. No other Notre Dame grapplers placed in the two-uay tournament. 
McKillen pinned Cal Crippen of Oswego in his first match ofthe 153 pound class at the 3:49 mark and then went on to defeat Rochester's Jamie Button 8-2 and Greg Nettle­ton of the State University of New York at Geneseo 4-3 to make it to the finals. Ohio State's Bruce Solomon beat the Notre Dame senior, ho"(ever, 6-1 for the 153 pound title. 


Padden lost the 170 pound championship bout to Oswego's Mike Corley 10-7. Mike wrestled , strongly in his previous matches I enroute to the final, defeating Scott Ewing of Rochester 6-0 and Lloyd Woodruff of Colgate 10-3 before blanking Bruce Hadsell of the these two schools, never having University of Buffalo 5-0 in the lost to either one. The Blue and semifinal. So far this year Padden Gold grapplers are 3-0 against has collected two second place Evansville and have won all nine finishes and one third. matches against the wrestlers from 
The Irish open up thier home Valparaiso. The match will take season with a dual meet against place in the ACC pit at 1:00 p.m. Evansville and Valparaiso Univer-and admission is free. Notre Dame sities this Saturday. Notre Dame and St. Mary's students are en· has a history of success against couraged to attend. 
·::;:;:;:;:;:;:::;:;::-;:;:;:;:;:::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::;:;:;:::;:;:;:;:;:;:::::::::::::;:::::::::·.:::::::::::
Ted Robinson McKay 
:::=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=======:===============================================:==========One Man's 
View, 
Somehow, that knowledge makes . Even the most pathetic teams I the story of the Tampa Bay have seen in the NFL can score and Buccaneers more amazing. The even occasionally win. Tampa Bay Buccaneers have warmed the destroys those theories. It boggles hearts of football fans all over my mind to believe that a team America with their futility. I found could start a quarterback like· myself rooting earnestly for the Randy Hedberg. Bucs to beat Chicago Sunday and Hedberg went to school at Minot chalk up win number one, and I State in North Dakota. Nothing know I wasn't alone. against North Dakotans, but that 
But, after watching the Bucs isn't exactly a football hotbed. So, for four quarters for the first time, when you have Gary Huff on the I've come to the realization that it bench, how can you start Hedberg, may be a long time before they ever whose are was targeted to throwing win a game, if they ever win one. passes into the eighth row of the 
The next question is, "How can a seats Sunday? team be that bad?" It's a good Tampa has a good defense. question. They stopped Walter Payton. 
The man most likely to take the Teams with good defenses ar blame is John McKay, who was supposed to win once in a while. handed over the fortunes of the Tampa can't even win once in J franchise on his celebrated depar-year. ture from Southern Cal. And you 1977 seems to be the year ill can't blame anyone for faulting which the NFL has achieved its McKay. much-discussed balance. It's Pet~ 
After all, here's a coach who Rozelle's favorite word and hi~. racked up one of the most success-justification for the player draft. ful coaching records in history. He For one of the few times in history. was the god of the California a team with five or possibly six college football fan. He found a losses will make the playoffs. But way to be Notre Dame like no other Tampa still can't win one, not even coach ever has. Yet, he has the one lousy football game. They've worst coaching record in the history had their chances, playing Seattle. of the NFL and the future looks the Giants, Philadelphia, even the dim. Bears. At least they're consistent. 
Make no doubt about the Tampasituation. McKay runs the show. The real heroes of this story arc:' Somehow, he has managed to keep the Tampa fans. These are fans; is sense of humor in the midst of a who have watched 24 quarters o:= ad situation. After one game, he football in their home stadium ompared his offense to something without seeing their team score one esembling a high school unit. It's touchdown. Notre Dame fans be­ough to motivate professional come impatient if they wait 24 athletes when you're comparing minutes for the Irish to score. hem to teenagers. So, the next time you hear astor~ So, perhaps tact is not McKay's about the best fans in the countr), forte. One thing is for sure ... judg-consider the citizens of Tampa.. ing talent isn't either. With run-McKay threatened to come m:.t ning backs like Anthc ·y Davis and naked for the Bucs' game witll Ricky Bell, a team should at least Atlanta last week. He didn't, but be able to score an occasional ' he ought to reconsider for the Buc:o' touchdown. But, the Buccaneers home finale. It would be a better are averaging less than five points : show than what the players pro-a game. vide. 








