

server 
Vol. XI, No. 94 
Gassman reviews 'successful' regime 
by Jack C. SUhavy The Gassman-Casey platforrr. 
Staff Reporter contained seven points of concern: alleviating overcrowding in the College of Business, a continuation 
Although others might not and follow up on the COUL report, agree, Mike Gassman, this year's continuation of the drinking lobby. Student Body President (SBP), increase the services of Student 
feels his regime has been quite Government and Student Union, successful in getting things done. increase relations with the Board of He believes his·campaign prom­Trustees, increase the viability of ises have been fulfilled as much as hall Judicial Boards, to better the allowed by the situations and some faculty-student relations. unforseen projects have also been boasted. 
*
Observer 

The Gassman-Casey ticket won 
Insight

overwhelmingly a year ago over two other tickets. They received Gassman had tried to deal with2,062 votes--well over the simple the problem last year through themajority--as the ticket of Tim Boyle 
Academic Council. This year heand Peter Gaa placed second with has taken personal interest in the590 votes. Candidates Mike Swei­problem, he said.

gert and Bill Walsh received 535 his regime as successful in fulfilling campaign promises. [Photo by Tony Chifari] 
Gassman said he felt headwayvotes, placing third. 

was made in that awareness wasTheir platform stressed exper­gained on both sides. Gassman felt ience, and it seemed to be the sole he was enlightened on how thingsissue. Gassman had worked the are run, and also commented thatprevious three years in the Student the college's administration now 

Hogan announces Editorial Board
Government. During his Junior realizes students are unhappy.
year he served as Academic Com­missioner for Student Union, in In regard to Gassman's second Newly elected Observer Editor­and features writer this year. typists and night controllers. which he was responsible for the objective, the Committee on Un­in-Chief Marti Hogan has an­The position of Special Projects Chiames served as a typist and 
dergraduate life (COUL) report was to night controller this year. 
calendar change proposal. nounced the Editorial Board for the Editor has been revived allow 
evaluated at the beginning of this Paul Clevenger, a sophomore
Mike Casey served one year op 1977-78 year. The new board will more supplements and insights.
year and suggestions given. 

Hall Presidents' Council before the take over after spring break. Pat Cole, a junior from Lompoc, from Dallas Texas, will replace election. Until recently it looked as if Martha Fanning, a junior from California, will ftll this position. Tony Chifari as Photography 
During the campaign Gassman Gassman's third proposal would Milton; Massachusetts, will re­Cole served this year as a senior Editor. Clevenger was a photo­stated, "The main thrust of our pay off. Jerry Klingenberger, a place Dan Sanchez as Managing staff reporter and copy reader. grapher this year. platform is to work with our student lobbyist, spent a lot of time Editor. Working with Fanning as Five non-board positions have Steve Bonomo will replace grad­experience for more communica­in touch with the drinking bill's Associate Managing Editor will be also been filled. Barb Langhenry, a uating Mike Miller as Advertising tion and cooperation." [contillued on page 6) Bob Brink, a junior from Westport, sophomore from Arlington, Illinois, Manager. Bonomo, a senior from 
Connecticut. Their duties will will replace Don Reimer as Copy Poughkeepsie, New York, will su­include the supervision of the Editor. Langhenry served this year pervise a staff which is responsible production department of the pa­as senior staff reporter and copy for getting ads and ad layout in the per. reader. paper. 
Fanning has served as senior Replacing Fanning as Production Replacing Tom Fronczak as Bus­staff reporter, night editor and Manager will be Karen Chiames, a iness Manager is Sue Quigley, a Production Manager this year junior from Winston Salem, North junior from Wheaton, Illinois. while Brink served as a staff Carolina. As Production Manager, Quigley will be responsible for the 
reporter and night editor. Chiames will be in charge of the general finances of the paper. Maureen Flynn, a junior from Richmond Heights, Missouri, will 
Redlir-ing-big city problem 
replace· Pat Hanifin as Editorial Editor. Flynn will supervise the overall production of the editorial comes to South Bend page. 
by Jack Pizzolato tion where they had an account and
Kathy Mills filling the position of 
Senior Staff Reporter an excellent credit rating. South
Executive Editor will be in charge 
Bend Federal refused to make a
of payroll and personnel. Mills, a 
Editor's Note: This is the first in a loan or under $15,000.
junior from Bergenfield, New 
three-part series on the nation­Other lending institutions in the
Jersey, has served as News Editor 
wide problem of "redlining" in city either turned them down or
and senior sfaff reporter this year. 
mortgage loan procedures, with said they would not make loans for 
Present News Editor Barbara 
particular emphasis on the practice less than $10,000. One did agree to
Breitenstein will move up to the 
in the South Bend area. The first do so, but a rate of 12 percentposition of Executive News Editor. 
article introduces the problem and interest (8.5 percent is standard).
Breitenstein, a junior from Kansas 
some of the arguments advanced "They wouldn't commit them­
City, Kansas, will be in charge of 
by each side -the lenders and their selves," Dolores fumed. "They Jthe news department. 
potential clients. The second just beat around the bush, wouldn't J
Working with Breitenstein will 
article will deal with the Home give a reason, and that's why I got
be Tom Byrne, a junior from j
Mortgage Disclosure Act of 1975, so disgusted.''
Atlanta, Georgia, in the position of 
discussing the effect it has had and The Clarks finally went to a
Campus Editor. Byrne served as 
some of the weaknesses of the law. Mishawaka bank where, they 
j
copy reader and senior staff report­
The final article will outline some of stated they had no problem getting 
er this year, as well as a Contribut­a But and
the solutions that have been pro­lean. they theirRich Branning, Duck Williams, Bruce Flowers and Randy ing Editor on the board. 
posed or already instituted in other neighbors now fear that the north­
Haefner proceed to tear down the nets following Saturday's 
Also in the news department will 
sections of the U.S. west side may be "redlining."
93-82 victory over the No.1 San Francisco Dons. [Photo by Tony 
be Katie Kerwin, a junior from Chifari] 
"Redlining" is a term that wasDetroit, Michigan. Kerwin who Dolores Clark is still amazed. 

served as a copy reader, senior little known four years ago. It is the 
Had they lived in Chicago or New 
arbitrary refusal by lenders to
staff reporter and assistant night York or one of the major cities, she invest mortgage money in oldereditor this year, will take over might have been less surprised,

N.D. employee injured 
urban neighborhoods. According

Mills' and Breitenstein's present but it happened in South Bend. 
to a recent report published jointly responsibilities as News Editor. Dolores and her husband, James,


in automobile accident 
by the National Center for UrbanJean Powley, a sophomore from were denied a reasonable home Ethnic Affairs in Washington D.C .. 
by Jack Pizzolato Clark, who was heading north­Chagrin Falls, Ohio, will replace mortgage loan. 
and by the National Training andSenior Staff Reporter bound on Juniper Rd. attempted to Hogan as St. Mary's Editor. A year ago, the Clarks, who live Information Center in Chicago:

avoid Raymond by turning onto Powley will supervise the overall in the upper northwest side of the 
Sharon R. Clark, 31, an Douglas Rd. but was struck. The input of stories from St. Mary's. city, decided to purchase for rental " ...redlin1ng may consist of out· emplo!fee in the physics depart­accident occured at 2:05 p.m. She served this year as a day editor purposes a vacant house across the right refusal to accept mortgage or ment, was injured Friday afternoon Both drivers were taken to St. and senior staff reporter. street. The previous owners had horne improvement loan applich­St. Joseph County Police reported Joseph County Hospital. Campbell Replacing Fred Herbst as Sports defaulted on a Federal Housing tions. Or it may involve a number when the car she was driving was suffered nose and knee injuries but Editor will be junior Paul Steven-Administration (FHA) mortgage of subtJ,~r actions: awarding mnrt­struck by another vehicle at the was treated and released. Clark, .son from Hinsdale, Illinois. loan. and the home had been gage loans on inordinately short corner of .Juniper and Douglas who resides at 18838 Welworth Stevenson served as sports writer repossessed and put on the market terms with high downpayment Roads. Ave., was admitted with head, and worked on page layout this for $6.500. requirements; refusing to lend on 
According to a police spokes­facial, and possible internal in­year. When the Clarks talked to a local properties older than a prescribed man, the driver of the other juries and is listed in fair condition. Dave O'Keefe, a junior from realtor, they were told there would number of years; stalling on ap­vehicle, Raymond P. Campbell, 20 Calllpodl was driving a 1968 Northbrook, Illinois, will replace be iJ. problem; the banks and praisals to discourage potential of 710 West LaSalle Ave., was Chcvy l'ol!r-ddor hardtop and Clark, Tim O'Reilcy as Features Editor. savings institutions were not lend­borrowers; underappraisals; n·­southbound on Juniper Rd. ap­a 1975 Chevy coupe. Both vehicles Hi~ duties will include procurring ing money in that neighborhood. fuo;ing Itt lend in amounts below a proaching Douglas Rd. when he were towed away with extensive stories and laying out the page. Thcv went to the South Bend fixed minimum figure, and charg­turned into th~· oncoming lane. damage c~tirnated at $1.800. 0' Keefe served as staff rcporte.r Fcd~ral Savings & l.oan Associa-jl-untinut•d on pagl.' SI 


------~~--,........,.~-~------.-. -;-:­
'. 

2 the observer Monday, March 7,..12ZZ. 
---News Briefs-----~ 
~==~======International Qu~ke hits 7.2 on scale 
BUCHAREST, RQmania (AP)-At least 600 deaths were reported yesterday in shattered Bucharest and areas of Romania and Bulgaria hit by the latest of a series of deadly earthquakes in southern Europe. 
The government said Friday night's massive quake, 7.2 on the Richter scale, was known to have killed 580 people in Romania, including 508 in Bucharest alone, and injured 3,214. Western diplomats said American medical students helping in hospitals estimated as many as 3,000 might have been killed in the disaster, which rocked Europe from Rome to Moscow Friday night. 

Communists-Sodalists unite 
GRENOBLE, France (AP)-The Communist party will move into the city council of one of France's best-managed and most attractive communities in nationwide municipal elections next Sunday without having to gather a single new vote. 
Their easy ·victory comes from the Communist's alliance with the Socialist party and anagreementto establish a single left-wing slate of candidates. On the national scale, the agreement holds in 204 big cities, with the Socialists occasionally being given a free ride into office in a Communist fief such as LeHavre. 
But the single slate essentially benefits the Communists, and in a place like Grenoble, it is little else than a giveaway of power. The Socialist party, in total control of the city for the last 12 years, offered the Communists 16 city council candidacies to 22 for itself on the united left ticket. 
I===::=::::========National 

Urban poverty is target 
WASHINGTON (AP) -Secretary Juanita Kreps says the Commerce Department is strengthening its efforts to revive sagging local economies that have left thousands out of work in the nation's older cities and towns. 
Until recently, the department has had little role in the war on urban poverty, and Kreps' pledge to enter the fray may signal Carter administration efforts to stimulate private investment in the cities. 
"No statistical trick can hide the fact that structural unemploy­ment low incomes and small-business failures have been heavily conc~ntrated in the older cities and towns," Krei)ssaid yesterday. 


~---On Campus Today-------4 
9:30­11 :30 am 
11_~m­
3pm 
12:15 pm 2-4 pm 
3;30 pm 
4:30pm 

l 7-9 pm 
l 
l 
8 pm 
workshop, work values, sponsored by student affairs, student activities conference room 
exhibition, five nd students display works in ceramics, painting, sculpture, and silkscreen, isis gallery, free. 
I 

mass, celebrated by fr. robert griffin c.s.c, university chaplain, Iafortune ballroom. 
tax assistance program, conducted by nd accounting students, Iafortune ballroom, free: 
colloquim, "the real world of commercializing an invention" by dr. cloyd snavely, national standard co, mishawaka, sponsored by nettalurgical engineering dept., room 5 engineering bldg. 
lecture, "biochemical studies on sexual agglutination and morphogenesis in yeast" by dr. clinton e. ballou, dept of biochemistry, univ. of california at berkeley, 
sponsored by chemistry dept., room science hall, also march 9 and 11.  123,  nieuwland  
workshop, job search, sponsored by room 141, regina hall.  student affairs,  

lecture, "absolute liberty corrupts absolutely" by prof. gertrude himmelfarb, city univ. of new york, sponsored by history dept , library aud. 
Student Activities lists class~election regulations 
by Jake Morrissey 
The Office of Student Activities has announced the rules and regulations for the 1977 Sophomore; Junior and Senior Class Elections, which will be held on Tuesday, March 29. 
According to the rules, each ticket must submit their platform stating what they hope to accomp­!ish during their term if elected. Th'ts must be done prior to the 
9is_tributfon _of petitions. 
Petitions for all tickets may be 
obtained from Student Activities 
anytime after 8 a.m. on Monday, 
Mar. 21. One hundred signatures 
Stude~t· Acti~hies OfficenOlater than 5 p.m. on Thursday, Mar. 24. The campaign will begin at 5 
p.m. Thursday, and will run until midnight, Monday, Mar. 28. Expenses for it are not to exceed $50. No donations of money or materials are allowed. 
The balloting for halt residents will be from 11:30 a.m. to 1 p.m. and from 5 to 6 p.m. For off-campus residents, balloting will take place at the Huddle from 11 
a.m. to 5 p.m. 
Students wishing to run can pick up a complete list of rules and regulations at Student Activities. Also, if there are any questions related to class_ elections, John 

from the ticket's class, ar-e required ''Reid (7308) in Student Activities to place the ticket on the ballot. will be happy to answer any Signed petitions are due in the questions. 




Amin seeks good relations 
KAMPALA, Uganda [AP] -U­ganda's President Idi Amin said yesterday he would like the United States to reopen its embassy in Kampala and he predicted that one day President Carter will be "one of my best friends." 
In his first interview with U.S. correspondents since the war of nerves over the 240-person Ameri­can community in this East African nation, Amin asserted it never had been his intention to hold the Americans hostage. 
The Ugandan leader met with correspondents from The Associat­ed Press, CBS and NBC at the presidential lodge. 
He wore a blue track suit top and white shorts after an afternoon of basketball in which his hand-picked team trounced another from the armed forces and civil service. Amin, 6-feet-4, dwarfed the othet players and scored most of his team's baskets. 
Amin said fears raised for the safety of the Americans after he issued orders to them Feb. 25 not to leave the country until he met with them was a misunderstand­ing. He said it stemmed partly from what he called Carter's lack of knowledge about Africa. 
The crisis was defused after Amin cancelled a meeting with the American community and lifted his travel ban. 
The president stressed that he wants good relations with the 
Sophomore survey reveals 
United States and said he would like to see the U.S. Embassy in _Kampala reopened as well as more Americans working in Uganda. The embassy was closed in 1973 in a dispute over its Marine guards, but the United Sates has not broken diplomatic relations with Kampala. 
Despite his conciliatory attitude toward the United States, Amin repeated his charge that some 2,600 mercenaries, working in co­
. operation with the U.S. Navy's Indian Ocean fleet and the Kenyan regular army, are "coming towards Uganda's borders." He said that although Uganda wants good relations with all its neighbors, "it is still capable of defending itself." Among other points made by 
;~~~ :~:~s of 3,000 Palestinians 
1 and "several thousand Cuban

similarities-in three classes troops" being in the coun~ 
were 
The more students seems to change, the more they remain the same, according to a survey of three different groups of sopho­mores over the last 15 years at the University. 
J. Jerome Fargen, professor of education at Spalding College in Louisville, Kentucky, surveyed the brightest of Notre Dame's sopho-
Spring semester enrollment peaks 
Spring semester enrollment fig­ures at the University have reached 8,556, the highest number for any comparable period in the school's history. A total of 8,057 were registered a year ago and 8,540 in the previous record semester of 1975. 
Undergraduate enrollment is 6,786, an increase of 40 students over last year, and Law School is 449, an increase of 37. The graduate program in business administration reports six addition­al students and other post­baccalaureate programs are down 34 to 1,150. 

Enrollment in the College of Arts and Letters this semester is down 84 from last year's 1,917, down 31 in the College of Business Adminis­tration from last year's 1,480, up 73 to 878 in the College of Engineering, and up 16 to 938 in the· College 'of Science. There are 1,688 in the Freshman Year of .Studies, up 65 from last year. 

~--------------------­

%The Observer 
Night Editor: Debbie Dahrling 
Asst.  Night  Editor:  Paula  
Carroll  
Layout  Staff:  Laurel  Shu- 

trump, john Calcutt Editorial Layout: Mike Richter Sports Layout: Paul Stevenson Typists: Sue Shellenburger, Kathy Egbert, Mary Ann Keefe, Leigh Tunakan E.M.T.: Karen Chiames Day Editor: Jack Pizzolato Copy Reader: Pat Cole Photographer: Tony Chifari 
The Observer is published Monday through Friday and weekly during the summer session, except during the exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $20 per year ($10 per semester) from The Obser­ver, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid,
Notre Dame, lnd1ana 46556. 

mores in the years 1961, 1971, and 1976, using a 124-item question­naire. "They (respondents from all groups) agreed on two-thirds of all the item -re_sponses for the entire inventory," Prof. Fargen said in a preliminary report. "This fact raises a question about whether these classes were really as differ­ent as students were often made out to be,'·' he added. 
When contrasts were evident in the survey, they were with the 1971 sophomores. The greatest differ­ences were between either the 1961 sophomores and their counterparts 10 years later or the 1971 sopho­mores and their counter parts five years later. The 1961 sophomores were surveyed about the time of the inauguration of president John 
F. Kennedy. The 1971 research coincided with the beginning of non-violence and less severe pro­testing on campuses, and the 1976 data were collected after the elec­tion of Jimmy Carter., 
Sections of the research instru­ment included family telations, outlook on life and the future, evaluation of education in general and Notre Dame in particular, and attitudes toward the economic and legal systems. 
ln questions about their own University, 1976 sophomores gave it the highest rating, 1961 sopho­mores were next, and 1971 sopho­mores last. Residentiality drew the strongest favorable assertion from all three groups, and the influence of coeducation, which arrived in 1972, could be seen in the turn­around in evaluation of social and recreational activities between the sophomores of 1971 and of 1976. 
GAME oru-."A' NOW-OPEN Hickory Rd. Only 
• 
PINBAll 

• 
FOOSBAll 


COLLEGE 
DAY 
SUNDAY 
Show college ID & get $1.00 off 16" Family size Pizza 
401 N. HICKORY 
TOWN & COUNT 
. . . , . ·. _ · .,. 

untrue. Such reports, he satd, have "degraded the Western pass." -That reports of mass killings of Ugandan Christians by the Ugan.: dan army were also incorrect. But, referring to a plot he recently said he uncovered to overthrow him, Amin also said that anyone, wheth­er Christian, Moslem or pagan, ~ must pay the price of plotting against Uganda. -That he fully intends to attend the Commonwealth Conference in Lon­don in June despite demands that 
he should be barred from the event 
because of alleged violations of 
human rights within Uganda. -That he also hopes to visit the United Nations in New York Later this year. If he is refused permission by the U.S. goverQment to visit the U.N., he said other nations would insist that the U.N. headquarters be moved out of New York. 


Erratum 

In the last edition of this paper 
on Mar. 4, it was erroneously 
reported that The Obsel'Ver and the 
University will co-sponsor a loan of 
$5,000 to finance continued publi­
cation this year. 

The correct amount of the loan is 
$15,000. 

Placement Bureau 
changes date -. 
Students wishing to sign up for interviews in the Placement Bureau Office for the week of Mar. 28 can do so on Tuesday, Mar. 22. For this week, there will be no Monday sign-ups. 
A~~o~i~t~~r~:;s~ aAft~:~d~ct~~~; \_ ;~~-A\;l~~:R~·'?:~'"Wh~re· p;~{cf;$ Always'1n Good Taste!",_.. 
rights are reserved 

~----....------""'~---~-----­
Monday, March 7, 1977 the observer 


Pennsylvania coal miner escapes death trap 
TOWER CITY, Pa. [AP] -Ronald Adley, a feisty coal miner trapped deep inside a mountain for the longest five days of his life, squirmed to freedom yesterday and was taken to a hospital in good health. 
Several hours later the bodies of two more coal miners were located, bringing to four the number killed by the underground flood that trapped Adley last Tuesday. 
Five more miners remained missing. Efforts to locate them continued but no new signs of life were reported. 
"Pass that jackhammer over to me," Adley comanded as his rescuers burst through the last inches of a SO-foot wall of coal and quartz that had served as his prison door. 
Then the 37-year-old miner put the finishing touches on a shoulder­wide escape tunnel and wiggled his five-foot-seven frame through. He thanked his rescuers with slaps on the back and a few jokes. · 
It had taken them 108 hours to reach him. He cut some of the boredom by chewing tobacco pass­ed to him by rescuers. But when 
. · he had asked him for whiskey, they gave him only orange juice. Turning down an offer to ride on a stretcher the mile to the mine's mouth, Adley barked: "Hell no. I 
want to walk.'' 
When he reached the sunlight he turned down an offer of sunglasses to cut the sudden glare. 
''Adley is mentally alert and physically in good shape. He has several small abrasions on his forehead, legs and arms," said James Kirk, administrators of Pottsville Hospital where the miner was examined and admitted for observation. 
Adley and other miners were trapped ~tt midday Tuesday be­neath 400-foot-high Big Lick Moun­tain when a wall of ice-cold water crashed through a shaft ceiling, battering support timbers and trig­gering rock slides. Two bodies were found by late Wednesday. Three miners who escaped were injured. 
Walter J. Vincinelly, state com­missioner of deep mine safety, said there were no signs of other life in the 10-foot wide, 10-foot high chamber where Adley and the two bodies found yesterday had been. 
Two teams of four men each continued to search the area, which penetrates an unknown distance into a black hole. But it was only one of several sealed-off ·chutes in which other miners might be. 
After Adley's rescue, workers fell silent so three dynamite blasts could be set off to simulate a miner's distress signal and perhaps evoke a response from anyone trapped. Sensitive instruments detected nothing. 
Meanwhile, efforts proceeded to dig 43S feet into another area of the mine so television cameras and microphones could be lowered. 
After they reached him, Adley's rescuers escorted him 1,000 feet to a waiting shuttle car that ferried him another 4,000 feet to the surface. 
"The first thing he said when he got in was that he was afraid of getting the ambulance dirty," said Zerbe, the ambulance attendant. "I said, don't let it worry you:" 
Adley had been trapped for 32 hours before his efforts to tap out a message that he was alive were detected. A supply hole was driiied to his chamber and the efforts to cut a larger tunnel througli began. 
"He's alert and well oriented," said Dr. Leon Scicchitano, director of the surgery staff at Pottsville Hospital. "We plan to keep him under observation for between 24 and 36 hours." 
The Kocher Coal Co. mine, honeycombed with abandoned shafts that over the years have trapped pockets of rain water, is located in Schuylkill County over Pennsylvania's major anthracite field 40 miles northeast of 
In Business College 
Dean Ryan announces changes 
by Diane Wllson 

In an effort to "redistribute the 
manpower with the College of 
Business Administration" some 
administrative changes arP. due to 
take place soon, according to 
Brother Leo Ryan, Dean of the 
College. 
Dr. Yasaka Furuhashi, professor 
of marketing and former acting 
dean of Business Administraiton, 
will become associate dean for 
faculity development and curricu­
lum for undergraduate and gradu­.-ate students on June 1, 1977. 
Vincent R. Raymond, associate 
dean of the College since 1973, wiii 
continue in that role with responsi­
bility for student personnel and 
administrative services for both 
undergraduate and graduate 
students. · 
Dr. John R. Malone, associate· 
dean of the College of Business 
Administration will leave his ad­
ministrative position and return to 
teaching as a professor of market­
ing on May 31, 1977. Dr. Frank 
Yeandell, assistant dean of the 
College of Business Administra­
tion, will be joining the faculty at 
St. Mary's College where he will be 
assosiate professor of business and 
economics effective on Aug. 30, 
1977. 
· Reasonforchange 
Ace._, •:·ding to Ryan, there are three purposes of these changes. One is to consolidate and join the administrative offices for graduate and undergraduate business ma­Jors into one unit covering both. A third purpose is to extend the scope of the associate deans so that each is respqnsible for the entire College rather than just one section of it, either the graduate or undergra­duate students. 
Presently, Raymond is respon­sible for undergraduates and Malone is responsible for graduate students in business. The way the new administration will be set up, each associate dean will have certain responsibilities for the en­tire college. · 
The administration conceives the college as a total operation. There is no graduate and undergraduate faculty so it makes more sense to have the administration cover the entire college rather than divide it between the graduat and under­graduate students. 
The College of Business is working on a major evaulation of the college and all the departments in it. When the evaulation is completed new requirements for the college and the departments will be recommended. There are no course changes slated for 1977­78 school year, but the study will be completed during that year and there will be a major shift within the college and within each department. 
Some things the evaluation is investigating include the structure of the sophomore year (the sopho­more year is filled with required intro business courses), the role of the computer for business courses, the role of statistics and applied statistics(BA graduates arerequired to have 6 hours of statistics), and the necessity of a 'cap-up' course at the end of the program connecting all of the · things the business graduate has learned in the college. 
Also being evaluated are the communication skills business ma­jors have and how they should be improved, the role of business in government relations, the need of an international curriculum for our "domestic economy in an interde­pendent world,'' and· the question ofvaluesin "business in society." 
The answers to these questions and many more will all be compiled next February and new curriculum and college requirements will be ready for the 1978-79 school year. All SS faculty members of the college will be working on the evaulation. They are all experts in the areas of business, not just in their specified field. 
According to Ryan, this will cause the evaluation to take longer .but will give better results as each professor is concerned with the entire college and not just his department. 
Overcrowding stiU a problem 
Another concern of the college is the crowding within the college. Ryan explained some experiments going on within the sophomore year in statistics. There are presently large sections with tutor­ials for problems. They will do the same thing with the statistics classes next year for an accurate appraisal of the system. 
Ryan said the collge was also working on not having to have all the sophomore courses large. They are also trying to revise the faculty to teach at the junior and senior level new courses and to have the senior courses smuller in number. 
There are three important rea­
[continued on page 6] 


The Observer is looking for some fast moving people to work in ad sales and 
service next year Excellent sales experience and a healthy commission are offered stop by the Observer office (3rd floor Lafortune) to fill out an applica1ion 
I; '.ft
.. ' 

........-·--.:..:.:· .. .... -~ ....... . •' I 
, .......... ' 
· 

Harrisburg. only after relatives of the trapped Since 1960, SO miners have died men went to court did drilling to in Schuylkill county. find them resume. Then, a 
Tuesday's cave-in occurred some microphone lowered into a crevice 30 miles from the site of another detected voices. mine accident that drew worldwide So there was some lingering attention 14 years ago. hope yesterday among the families 
On the morning of Aug. 27, 1963 of the missing miners. Near the two miners were hoisted 308 feet to mouth of the mine, their relatives safety after spending 14 days in a still waited yesterday afternoon. dark, underground cell. Eyes met witli understanding. A 
In that case, state rescue officials pat on a shoulder or a clasping of had called rescue impossible, and a hand distributed the burden. 
'Heaven-Hell' weekend draws great response 
by Michael Lewis choices for the students this week­
end." 
"Heaven and Hell" weekend, "Our main competitor seemed to sponsored by the Student Union be the post-victory celebrations at last Friday and Saturday was the bars after the basketball deemed an "overall success" by game," Saddler continued. Social Commissioner Kevin Although most of the activities Saddler. went well, there were some prob­
The weekend's activities in­lems during the weekend. One of cluded happy hours at Kubiak's the events, a disco at The Nazz was Bar and The Heidleberg Bar in closed down early in the evening Niles, a computer dating service, a because of lack of student dance in the LaFortune ballroom 
attendance. and a disco party at the Nazz. 
"We had to close down The Nazz "Over all the weekend was a on Saturday night," Saddler said. 
success and I'm pleased with the "It didn't make sense to haveresponse," Saddler said. He also people running the equipment if nonoted that the happy hours were one was going to show up."
very successful and that the com­puter dating service received a Saddler closed by saying, "We good response. tried to offer a lot of different 
Although there were many other activities, but we could have done events on campus last weekend, more with more student involve­Saddler did not see them as being ment and creativity. The student competition. "We hoped to inte­body is unpredictable, and we need grate our activities with the other to know what they want. The only events on campus," he stated. way to know this is for students to "We tried to present a lot of become more actively involved." 

Maintenance lists damage in dorms 'not excessive' 
by Mark Perry 

The amount of damage and vandalism in the dormitories has not been excessive so far this year, according to Edwin Lyon, director of maintenance at Notre Dame. 
Although he was unable to give specific figures at this time, Lyon stated "except for a couple of wild weekends last fall, over-all the students have been good to us this year." 
Lyon noted that some hall dam­age is expected each year, and commented ''We would allow for a certain amount of damage because of horseplay, but it's the malicious intentional vandalism that bothers us." 
He listed Planner and Grace· Halls as examples of this malicious vandalism, where the elevators are constantly being damaged by peo­ple covering the walls with graffiti. Lyon recalled one year when the elevators had to be painted four times because of this damage. 
Lyon said there was really no 
specific time where damage to halls was more prevalent, but noted that 'exam week was when students 
were more apt to cause uninten-. 
tiona] damage because of exam 
pressure. He also stated that 
damage was definitely more com­
mon in mens' dorms. 
In general, Lyon said students 
have been much better in the 
1970's than in the 1960's. 
Alf the hall rectors questioned 
also commended the students on 
their behavior this year. Sally 
Duffy, rector of Lewis Hall said most 
vandalism has been restricted 
mainly to tearing of wallpaper 
along the stairwells and other 
minor damage. When asked if she 
thought any of the dama,ge might 
be cause by parties in the hall, 
Duffy said that the girls for the 
most part have kept the parties 
very well organized. 
Br. Benesh of Alumni also said 
that he didn't know of any damage 
in the hall caused by people at 
parties in Alumni. 
are you....-..... 
Not Baptized and interested in becoming a Christian? Bapnzed and interested in becoming a Roman Catholic? Baptized Catholic and interested in 
receiving the sacrament of Confirmation? Bapnzed ·Catholic and interested in learning more about your religion? for information please contact the : NOTREDAMECATECHUMENATE 
at Campus Ministry Campus Ministry West Memorial Library aJ Badin Hall 
283-6536 ~ 283-3820 
',":.'. .' 1 ............ ·.i. 
;'.·'····. 
;,·, ~·, ... _,. 

... . ·.·.·. ;',' 
---~------~----~~--------------­
*The Observer 
anindependentstudentnewspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's 
The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policiPs of either institution. The news is reported as accurately J.nd as objectively as possible Editorials represent the opinion ,of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, op.inions and letters are the views of their authors. Column space is available to all mem-bers of 'the community, and letters are encouraged to promote the free expression of varying opinions on r:ampus. 
Box Q

Business Manager Tom Fronczak_ Notre Dame
Advertising Manager Mike Miller Photo Editor Tony Chifari Ind. 46556 
Monday, March 7, 1977 




Retain Danehy
Prompted by the University's retirement 
of Prof. James P. Danehy, we examined, in Friday's editorial, Notre Dame's nebulous definition of tenure, and the manner in which this definition may be applied (at the administration's discretion) either to retire or re(ain professors once they reach 65. We concluded that the current system may not last much longer, in view of the animosity that exists between Notre Dame's faculty and administration. 
In this editorial, we tum to the mdividual case of Prof. Danehy. Whatever the general retirement rules, he deserves to go on teaching. 
By his own definition, Dr. Danehy'sprimary job as a Professor of Chemistry is to teach Organic Chemistry to Notre Dame's pre-med and science students. This course is the cut-throat pre-med course; it marks the point at which a student who wants to become an M. D. makes it or drops out of pre-med. 
A tough course for the student, Organic Chern is most certainly a rigorous course for the professor who teaches it. Professor Danehy has done an admirable job, puttinginto his teaching effort enthusiasm and vigor that many younger faculty members would be hard-pressed to match. 
Danehy' s teaching is not limited to chemistry. He teaches a section of Collegiate Seminar, a course which (ideal­ly) calls for a teacher who has some knowledge of philosophy, literature and 
EDITORIAL BOARD 
Thomas O'Neil Editor-in-Chief Dan Sanchez Managing Editor Chris Smith Asst. Managing Ed. 
Gregg Bangs Executive Erlitor Val Zurblis Executivo Eci1tor Pat Hanifin Editorial Editor 
Tim O'Reiley Fedtures Editor Bob Mader Exec. New~ 'Editor Maureen Flynn Campus Editor Marti Hogan St. Mary's Editor 
Kathy Mills News Editor Barb Breitenstein News Editor Don Reimer Copy Editor· 
Martha L. Fanning Production Ed1tor Fred Herb?t Sports Editor Tom Byrne Contributing Editor 
-----------~------~~~...---~--~~--------~----~....~ 
opin ion !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
A Call To Action 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii.-..... j. p. russ e II 
history.

A total scholar, Professor Danehy is intimately familiar with the great works of literature which are read for Seminar. Such a well-rounded professor is an asset to any school, especially Notre Dame, a university that stresses liberal education., 
In the classroom, Danehy gives himself totally to his teaching. Outside the classroom, he is always available for-consultation, and is willing to devote whatever time is necessary to help his students. Prof. Danehy demands much from those he teaches, but he demands much more from himself as a teacher. Dedicated and hard working, Danehy has earned the respect of his students, and is almost universally admired by those who have had him in class. 
James Danehy has not limited his involvement with Notre Dame to teaching.He is president of the Notre Dame Credit Union's Board of Directors. He is also a long-time member of the Faculty Senate. He nowserves as its chairman. In this role, he has increased the efforts of previous.chairmen to create an amicable workingrelationship between the Senate and the Administration. 
In view of his past record at Notre Dame,· and his continuing good work, we heartilysupport Professor James P. :nanehy in his effort to continue teaching, and we reproach anyone who would force him into retirement long before his time has come. 
P. 0. Box Q 
Dried Brain Syf}drome 
Dear Editor: 
Regarding Professor Danehy's forced retirement: The former pastor of my parish, an energetic, vigorous man, who was forced to retire by the Church once said bitterly; "You know, when you turn 65 your brains dry up." Apparent­ly some of our administrators suffer fror the same mentality. 
Bob Mader 
Ticket Sales 

Questioned 
Dear Editor: 
On Tuesday morning, February 
22. a friend of mine anc I stood in line for a combined total of five hours at the Student Union box office in order to obtain the best possible tickets for the upcoming Electric Light Orchestra concert. When we finally reached the ticket window at II a.m.. we were told that the be~t sections, B and I 0, had already been sold out. This did not surprise us because we were preceded in th.e line by about 70 people. 
Eventually. we purchased a number of tickets in section 8 which, we were told, were the last <•ne<, lcf1 in that ~cction. So &ftcr we left the window, sections B, 8, and 10 were supposedly sold out. I say "supposedly" because now I read in your paper that some tickets from these very same sections were stolen from the Student Union office last week. 
My question is: If these tickets were indeed "sold," how is it that there were still some available to be stolen? Obviously, these tickets were withheld from the students and I'd like to know why. 
Stephen L. Needles 


Observer 
Criticized 
Dear Editor: 
It seems that in dealing with the recent SBP Election, The Observer's actions were curiously inconsistent, and in the opinion of myself and a number of others. quite inappropriate. 
First there was the matter of endorsing a ticket. Had The Observer's editoriaL staff chose to endorse one of the nine tickets pripr to last Tuesday's preliminary election they would have their preference known to the campus without any way hampering the campaigns of the other candidates. It seems that if one of the tickets was so impressive as to warrant an endorsement from the editorial board, they they would have wished the campus to know their feeings before Tuesday's election. After all. the ticket they considered the best concievahly might not have gotten enough votes to even qualify for Thursday's run-off. Instead, they chose to wait until only tickets remained,. meaning that an endorsement of one would necessarily have some impact on the efforts of the other. 
At any rate, the editorial staff obviously felt that Wednesday's endorsement of the Bender-Soma ticket would not be "unfair to Mr. Russell," though he would not have "a chance to reply at length." 
Thus, their subsequent decision to delay the printing of Mr. Van Tassel's letter concerning Mr. Bender's misconceptions about the SLC was seemingly inconsistent, since the delay was justified by their reasoning that the printing would be "unfair to Mr. Bender" since he would not have "a chance to reply at equal length.·~ In this way an attempt to enlighten the campus about the weakness of one of the very planks of the platform that The Observer had recently so heartily endorsed was effectively suppressed until the election was over. 
If The Observer feels that it is performing a service to the Notre Dame-St. Mary's community by unbiased reporting of important and relevant information. and this commitment extended to SBP elec­tion coverage, then I feel the editorial staff should admit not merely their "regret" about this incident, but the fact that they made a serious error in judgement. This error may have cost a very dedicated and hard-working tl')divi­dual the election, when as it was the margin of defeat was c.\lremcly narrow. 
Tht.•odurc A. Howard 

Apathy at Notre Dame is not inherent as some feared. The students are concerned and respon­sive when an issue of importance arises. Such was demonstrated by the tremendous turnout in this year's SBP and SBVP elections. A remarkable number of people case ballots this election; less than 'one percent separated my running 
mateJohn Geppert and myself from the winning ticket. 
Certainly this was one of the most memorable elections in recent times. The slim margin of victory demonstrates the political involve­ment that characterized the cam­pus for several days. For a special group however, this election was only culminated by the balloting. The entire process of organization, planning and strategy took hun­dreds of man-hours even five weeks before election day. 
We would like to _thank all of the V0ters who had the confidence in US to trust us with their votes. We cannot repay all of the individuals who pledged their loyalty and time fo our belief, nor can our hall coordinators or campaign mana­gers Brian Clancy, Chad Tiedemann and Jeff Kohler be adequately repaid. 
Perhaps Mark Eck, of the third place ticket, will never realize how indebted we are for his support and allegiance the night after he him­self had been defeated. Mark trusted our platform, had faith in its candidates and took hours of his own time to campaign for Russeii­Geppert in Flanner Hall. The ·overwhelming turnout there not only-demonstrated a mandate for the ticket;iJUt it al!.o demonstrated the confidence and respect of the Flanner ·residents toward Mark 
( 

Eck. This type of respect is the quality most admirable in a student leader at Notre Dame. 
Undeniably, the loss hurt, but not in a bitter sort of way. Almost two thousand students trusted their votes to us, an amazing display of support. We are onlyworriedthat we will not be in a position to implement the proposals the voters worked and voted for. However, we feel the programs and proposals of our platform are sound an implementable. Specifically, we urge our new SBP and SHVP, Dave Bender and Tom Soma to nurture the SLC along its path to deal with student life problems in a long range basis, secondly, to be visible student leaders and thirdly to recognize and deal with a social life on campus which is in .need of much improvement. 
At this time our Student Govern­ment has a tremendous opportunity to utilize an active and enthusiastic student body to accomplish its goals. With a completely unified Student Body Dave and Tom will be able to deal more convincingly with the business at hand. We are hopeful of a direction in student government towards greater vi~i-­bility and efficiency, which will enable Dave and Tom to maintain the interest of the student, body throughout their whole term. 
Only with the support of the greatest student body in the world can Notre Dame's Student Govern­ment represent the concerns of its students. We pledge our total support to Dave Bender and Tom Soma and en·courage our many supports to do likewise. There is a great deal to be done, we wish Dave and Tom the best of success in their approach to accomplish their goals. 
.. ANO THEN /UHCN TJIEY GOT 70 TilE StiNElA/HERE 
KUNTA KINTE 15CAPllJR£0­
a Y{)£3 JUSTIUENT INTO A FIT OF RAGE.' 
fr 
:::J 
Ill 
(/) 
w 
z 
0 
0 
0 

. I 
Ed's opinion column attackin~
Not So 

Dave's undarified proposal for renewal of the SLC reads like a frantic bureaucrat's attempt to protect his beloved position. Still. Ed does make one very important 


Impartial 
Dear Editor: point. Through any rc·-vamping process. the SLC should remain a In view of the fact that Dave direct student iink to the Board of 

Bende1 was ndiei~;ing_ the SLC's Trustees. 
inaetivity of the la;,l .\ c11r. .I do not as president.
Hopefully, Dave bdievc Ed Van Ta.,seL a lwin·­will lw aHe !u effect action whi··h 
eleded Nonh Quad Rqn•··;l'n1a1ive will help th:·· students uti!ii'c the 
10 the· SLC could P"':.\hh he link Hill''· d'f•_'l'tivl'lv. 
::on'>idcn·ct (as he tnain!:tH•'' .. an ,m".trli:d uho;en"Cr:· • . .-. ;t!l\ •'k'dlon p, . 11ich Dave lwd ;o ·,lak, . 
~ -~---~-~------~--~ 

--~-----~---------------------------­
Monday, March 7, 1977 the observer 5 

Redlining problem examined 
l 
[continued from page 1] "the basic criteria of sound mort­formation," Damian remarked, ing inordinately high closing cost, gage Investments." "because it's hard to come by. · to name a few." In general, however, the banking Interest rates and property values Banks and savings and loan community has retreated from its are not publicly recorded." associations (:;&l's) have tradition­former defense of redlining and is 
"The banks," he continued,ally defended the policv of not maintaining a quiet posture. But "always want to say that you need granting loans to ''high risk" areas · the fervor surrounding the issue to look at each individual case, as necessary in order to secure the has spilled over into smaller com­
because unless you do you won't safety of their depositors' funds. munities, and many local groups, understand why they don't make Opponents-of the practice charge with the aid of anti-redlining 
loans. There are extenuatingthat redlining is a self-fulfilling organizations such· as National circumstances, true, but we should prophesy which dooms inner city People's Action, have discovered 
be able to tell the kind of generalneighborhoods to blight and inev­that the problem is not one things l:hat are happening simplyitable decay. Citizen groups have restricted to the big cities. 
from a composit view." 
also accused lending institutions of 
Local action ·Damian did not believe that deliberately ''-Killing off'' urban 
redlining was the only factor inIn South Bend, a s~nall ad hoc
areas in order to force families into 
neighborhood decline. Lendingcommittee on redlining has been
the more profitable suburbs. 
institutions should not be madevery active. The group is sup­
Throughout the m)d '70's in a score 
scapegoats, he said, because it isported by the United Religious
of cities across the nation, such as 
not their fault· alone. "Neighbor­Community, the Broadway Christ­
Los Angelos, Chicago, Boston and 
hood decline," he concluded, "is aian Parish, and the Justice and
Baltimore, community organiza­
compilation of a lot of things thatPeace center. Last June, with the­
tions came into direct conflict with 
go on in · cities: a kind ofassistance of the Indiana Public
lending institutions over this ques­
lackadaisical attitude toward ser­Interest Research Group (INPIRG), tion. 
vices in inner city areas, thethe committee published . a mort­
Redlining came to the forefront 
allowance of housing code vio­gage investment study of the seven
as an issue in May 1975, when the 
lations, and the whole race issue."
largest lending institutions in
Senate Banking Committee, chair­
Of particular concern to him isSouth Bend. The study was
ed by Sen. William Proxmire 
the way in which property iscompleted with the use of public
(D.-Wise.), conducted hearings on 
presently appraised. The neigh­mortgage records located in the St.
the pratice. As a result, Congress 
borhood, he pointed out, wiii
N.D. book publishing class 
Joseph County Recorder's office.
enacted and President Ford signed 
naturally play a part in determining The key finding was that in 1975 
into law the first major peice of 
a house's value. "But," Damianonly 37 per cent of an approximate
f~deral anti-redlining legislation

chooses Mcinerny's novella 
asked, "what is the point at which$28 million in mortgage money was
entitled the "Home Mortgage Dis­
property begins to be devalued?"
invested within the city of Southby Michael Lewis production of the book," Mader closure Act of 1975." 
"Nobody can say or will say," heBend. The remaining 63 per centsaid. The law, which went into effect charged, ''because the whole ap­went to outlying areas. Only theQuick as a Dodo, a novella by "Sometimes small mistakes last June, requires depository in­praisal system is so obscure."
National Bank and Trust Co. show­Notre Dame philosophy professor don't matter in paper or yearbook stitutions who are federally insured Most lending institutions use aed what the group called a ''fairlyRalph Mcinerny, has been chosen · or something of that sort,'' Mader or regulated and have assets of federal appraisal form. One of theeven distribution of mortgage-for publication by the book pub­continued, "but in a book every­more than $10 million, to disclose categories on the form is titledmoney across all South Bendlishing class here at Notre Dame. thing has to be as perfect as we can the location and dollar amount of "Property values," followed byneighborhoods."
make it.'' residential mortgage or home im­
Bob Mader, president of Juniper three check boxes which indicate
Other institutions, such as. theSince the book will soon be on provement loans made or pur­
Press, describes the book as "a that the value of property in the
St. Joseph Band and Trust Co. andchildren's story that can be appre­the market the class has turned its chased within the last fiscal_ year neighborhood is either increasing,the Sobieski Federal Savings andciated by adults." The story attention to -marketing and publi-and for each consecutive year. This is stable, or is decreasing. TheLoan Association, invested only 24 concerns a small boy whose Easter cizing the book. · information must be maintained for neighborhood is rated good, aver­per cent of their ,total mortgageegg hatches into a dodo bird. The The class ,is considering many public inspection and copying for a age, fair or poor on such factors asvolume in the city.
different ways of publicizing the period of five years from the date of
dodo is very intelligent a~d soon "general appearance of properties,"
The study · also revealed thatbook, including many on and its release. ·
learns to talk and read. "property compatability," (with
within South Bend most lenders did off-campus channels. Current Citizen groups across thecountry
Later the bird escapes from the other homes in the area), "quality
not make loans at all in large partspossibilities include ads in The heralded the bill as a major victory 
boy's father, who wishes to use the of schools,'' and ''protection from 
of the west, southwest, southeastObserv-er, iron-on transfers, and. while the Banking Committee
dodo's talents for financial gain detrimental conditions." The
and near east sides of town. 
hopefully, autograph parties at a majority labeled it . as a "mild
and teaches what he has learned to house is judged for such things as
In drawing comparisons between few local bookstores. Mader said remedy that will have the effect of
other birds. "overall livability," "appeal and 
one member of Juniper Press mortgage investment patterns in
encouraging institutions to become 
marketability.''
"I don't want to tell the whole 1971 and 1975, the report com­
might ~o a& far as walking' around more community minded." Prox­Critics feel that parts of the formstory," Mader said, "but it's an mented that "if anything, the
campus in a dodo costume to mire wrote, "The act requires
excellent book and we're very picture has worsened.'' are too vague and subjective. The
inform the Notre Dame community every bank or savings institution to
enthusiastic about it's success." "In our report we tried not to two criteria most commonly attack­
of the book. give a public accounting of where ed are those which ask the ap­make a judgement," said ConradQuick as a Dodo will be Mader stated, "We would like to the community's money is being praiser to determine a home'sDamian, a spokesman for the groupMcinerny's seventh published nov­see the book publicized in some lent. ·With this disclosure, it will be "effective age," and its "es­and resident of the southeastel. He has. also had six philosophy educational magazines or the edu­much more difficult for lenders to timated remaining economic life."
section of the city. "However,books publtshed. Mcinerny is a full cational sections of some other justify writing off entire neighbor­"Effective age of property" is aredlining certainly appeared to beprofessoc... of Philosophy at Notre magazines. Our goal is to get this hoods, as some have done in the phrase widely used among depos­evident in South Bend." He notedDame and has taught here for 22 book a lot of attention.'' past.''
I ' itory institutions. The term dif­
that across the country it has beenyears. The class originally considered Since the passage of the Home ferentiates between the actual agedocumented as a serious problem,The book, which is 64 pages 18 manuscripts before narrowing Mortgage Disclosure Act, lendim; of a house and its "market" agebut added, "I have some sense thatlong, is now completely ready for the field to five original novels. institutions have responded to· taking into consideration the con­printing excepting the illustrations Mcinerny's book was then chose as pressure for more equitable mort­the lending institutions in South dition of the property and theand a cover design. The class wiii a result of class discussion and gage practices. Spokesmen such as Bend will respond to the sit­location.
take the manuscript to Insty-Prints deliberation. Saul B. Klaman, chief economist uation." 
"We don't have a lot of in-See Part 2 m·tomorrow's Observer. 
of South Bend for final printing Senior Jim Winters is editor-in­for the National Association of 
before spring break, and if all goes chief of Juniper Press, and Pam Mutual Savings Banks fear that as scheduled the book will be ready Butterworth has been chosen to lenders are being forced to allocate for distribution soon after break. illustrate the book. ~redit unwisely, without regard for 
"Our biggest job in making the book_ ready for printing was catchmg the many subtle. mistakes in the original manuscript and the 

senior men's night out!!! 




r-------..
Allwecan 1I tellyou isthat 1 1 men who don't I 1smoke live about I 
library 
Monday March 7th 1977 
. (9-?) how long can you last? 

I 6yearslonger 1 
I thanmenwho 1
I 1
dosmoke: 

I. 
I If you want someone II to help you stop smoking-I1 cigarettes, contaet your II American Cancer Society. 1 
I I $le00 all you can drinkI 1 I beer & shots
I AMERICAN CANCER SOCIETY I I I'~" h<·t •ak<·n I rum,_, 'l·~•·an·h -.tudy I s~nior ID's mandatory! 
I 
I'· lr~ >P·. ;Jn Iht• .o....:rnokf'i who arag-t• ~!j II ~rr··;kt·' af.iOIJI a pac·k and i.t hali ,if ~ 
---~.;;·;;·;;~-~~ ln,_~~~Y:IUII'·~......... 




Acareer in law­
without law school. 
What can you do with only a bachelor's degree? 
Now there is a way to bridge the gap between an undergraduate education and a challenging. respon­Sible career. The Lawyer's Assistant is able to do work traditiohally done by lawyers . 
Three months of intensive training can give you the skills-the courses are taught by lawyers. You choose one of the seven courses offered-choose the city in which you want to work. 
Since 1970, The Institute for Paralegal Training has placed more than 1600 graduates in law firms. banks, and corporations in over 75 cities. 
If you are a senior of high academic standing and are mterested m a career as a Lawyer's Assistant. · we'd like to meet you. 
C(;>ntact your placement office for an interview w1th our representative. 
We will visit your campus on TUESDAY, MARCH 29 
The Institute for Paralegal Training 
23~ South 17th Street. Philadelphia. Pertnsylvan1a 19103 (215) 732-6600 Operated by Para~Legal, Inc 
AC-0035 


6 
r Gassman re~iews fulfillment of proposals 
[continaed from page 1] · a sort of booklet, describing the wants. In this task, Gassman feels promise by the University to install tigated, and the ways to overcome -sponsor in the state legislature. two organizations and their value to he was successful. laundry machines for men. them were drafted. Again, the The bill had a good chance of the student and University. Befor! He, or some other Student . This was not on the original list questions were anticipated and 
f 
passing until the sponsor decided this could be done, however, Government representative met of campaign issues. This involved answered before the presentation: to run for another office. He has Student Union printed one on their with" them regularly, and Gassman an in-depth investigation before Bender commented, "They look­dropped his sponsorship and the own and the idea was given up. said that better feelings have been the proposal was even drafted. ed into some real good issues.'' He 1 
bill will probably be killed in Gassman has had quite a bit of produced on both sides. This could Much time was spent on in­added, however, there was not committee. trouble with the Student Union this help with future decisions. formation-gathering for the pro­enough support by students and Gassman believes this is unfor­year because of some problems ject. All aspects of financing, the SLC. The SLC did nothing for
Concerning Judicial Boards,

tunate since the bill was almost between the two organizations. He enginereering and student need Gassman, according to Bender.
Gassmanfelt that there was too

passed but hopes more work can be said there was some commun­were looked into before the presen­"The important thing is not only
much-of a lack in most halls. Many

done on it in the future. He does, ications problem and this made tation was made. that these things were done, but
halls didn't, and still don't, have

however, feel encouraged by the work between offices hard. Student Government succeeded that Student Government pushed
J-Boards and of the ones that do,
amount of headway the program Bender saw Student Union or­in gaining administrative aware­them through,'' Gassman stated.
most are ineffective. 

got. ganizaion as a problem in this past ness of the problem, and the •'I like to stress professionalism-­
Dave Bender, SBP-elect, be­year. He commented that there Gassman's strategy was to rein­administration agreed to install the responsibility, not politics in this lieved Gassman's attempt was was a real conflict from what he force the entire system. There was machines. administration.'' "well organized," and said it was a understood and added "If the two a push to get a J-Board established Gassman stressed the complete­Under Gassman, the system of credit to be given to this year's groups are not working together, in each residence dorm as well as to ness ofthe information. One has to co-exchange between the two din­SBP. both sides are in for a lot of revitalize the existing ones. Stu­know all the facts and all th~ ing halls and with St. Mary's was 
The Gassman ticket's fourth problems.'' . dent Government recommended questions as well, he said. In expanded. It began with a lunch objective was to increase the Another program Gassamn tried that party and parietal violations be addition to the presentation, Stu­between the two dining halls. This services of the Student ·Govern­to deal with was to get better handled within the halls. dent Government has to know how was so successful that this service ment and Student Union. relations with the Board of Trus­An important result of the work the administrators will react and was extended to dinners as well. 
One plan involved the printing of tees to know student needs and of Gassman and his workers is the · what questions they will ask. Again, there was great response 
Whenever this year's Student and the number of tickets were Government went forward with a doubled. proposal, it was as solid as possible Gassman said his job has been a 
with the time they had, Gassman dual one. He must get the job done stated. "You have to prove and also keep people happy.yourself,'' he said, adding that he Student · Government this year 
Carter talkathon draws 'praise' 
WASHINGTON [AP] -President with the President was the realiza­Panama Canal to the Panamanian felt they had this year. has tried to talk about thingsCarter basked in mostly rave tion of a dream. government about the year 2000 Bender also agreed that this without making a lot of noise andreviews yesterday about his first "We're middle-class people with but guarantee U.S. and world year's SG. communicated "very, disturbances. Gassman stated theyradio talk show and figured on no political clout," she said. "I'm' shipping access to the waterway. 
very well" with the Administra­hadn't really had to do anytbinghaving another talkathon with the just so down-deep glad that we --March 16 in the scheduled date spectacular and, therefore, haveAmerican people -but perhaps have a President that we can talk for the arrival of a five-member tion. He saw the problem in the communication with the students. had to make little noise. He addedusing a different format for variety. to." mission he is sending to Vietnam to Bender cited the Cable TV issue as that they have gotten things doneThere was scattered grumbling But Doris Lawton, 53 a Brain­discuss the fate of scores of an example of this. He said many and have kept up their credibility.
but the praise was instant and tree, Mass. housewife, said she Americans still unaccounted for lavish. It came from aides, the didn't try to reach Carter because it after the Vietnam war and a wide students felt it was not the out­Gassman stated that it was a 
standing advantage it was made great learning experience, but aSenate majority leader, people who didn't seem to worth the effort. range of other matters. 
out to be by Gassman and others; "lot of hell." He said, "I don'ttalked with Carter on the phone, "He'll do just as he pleases no --He will have his tax reform know if I'd do it agian. If I had theand people who didn't. matter what we say," she said. . program completed by Sept. 30 and "A lot of people didn't like the experience, no. If I didn't, yes, ICarter heard comments and an­The President made no major appear before a joint session of idea," he said. "Too much time probably would."
swered questions Saturday from 42 disclosures, but did refine matters Congress on April 20 to reveal was spent on it." 
''I don't ask for gratitude, I justpersons in 26 states on a two-hour that had previously been addressed details of his comprehensive Gassman had presented a pro­ask not to get the grief," heradio talk show carried by CBS. by lesser officials. He said: ene!~ policy. posal to the University to install a concluded.
Their calls to the Oval Office were Carter said the plan will not Cable TV system to aid educational
--He intends to move soon to seek

selected for geographical balance include anything like a 25-cent and entertainment interests. It was · 
restoration of relations with Cuba,

from an estimated 9.5 million boost on gasoline taxes. rejected but only by a very close
but the island nation will have to 

attempts to reach him. margin, Gassman stated.
change attitudes and end inter­--He has no plans to revive the "I liked it," Carter said at the 
vention in Latin America before military draft but would like to He said the preparation was very
end of the two-hour session. "The complete in the amount of time
gull diplomatic ties can be explore a new system of militaryquestions...are the kind you never enlistment •'to combine it with a available to them before the issuerestored.
get in a press conference. It is a much more comprehensive public came up. All the financial and
--U.S. negotiators will seek a treaty

very good for me to understand engineering problems we,re inves­
that will yiel~ ~!Jn_trQl of the service opportunity.''

from the American people what they're interested in. 
"My inclination is to do this again in the future...The two hours passed very quickly and I learned a lot from it." 
White House Press Secretary Jody Powell told reporters the president received a call after the show from Senate Majority Leader Robert Byrd of West Virginia who told him it was a success. 
"Certainly the experience here from our point of view was success­ful," Powell said. "If subsequent offers are made of a similar nature or if someone has a different idea for it we would certainly consider it." 
Mrs. John Ritchey of George­town, Ky., one of the President's callers, said after the show went off the air: "It was a thrill. It was something I didn't think would ever happen. Ife's given the presidency to me a whole new look." 
Another caller, Esther Thomas, 58, of·, ;llanova, Pa., said her talk 
Changes mac!e in Business Dept. 
fconti!lued from page 3] sons for having smaller classes: as to have more class participation, -which is practically impossible in large lecture classes, to encourage discussion, and to foster better writing and speaking skills. When Ryan became dean two years ago, the average class size was 55. It is now at 44, and Ryan hopes that by 1978 it will be 35. 
The only business class offered to non-business majors is account­ing. This spring there are two sections, and next fall and spring there will be two sections each. This is a section per semester increase. All the departments are in the process of looking for courses that can be opened to non-business majors. Hopefully by the fall of 1977, Dean Ryan stated some more new business courses will . be opened to non-business major. 
. ~ ., .. ,• , •'. ~ 
.• 



We putsome of America's 
most imJ)91:tant natural resources 
. .into the ground. 

Highly trained, highly qualified, and highly dedicated missile officers in the Air Force. Getting down to 't-Qe vital business of keeping America alert. This is a specialized field available to a few very special men. 
You can prepare to enter this exciting field by enrolling in an Air Force ROTC program. Four-year, 3-year, or 2-year programs leading to a com­mission of an Air Force officer. There are scholarships available, plus $100 monthly allowances. And after college, an Air Force opportunity for a chal· lenging job and with paid-for graduate educational degrees. 
If you're the type of a guy who wants to plant your feet on a solid foun­dation, look into the Air Force ROTC programs and look ahead to becoming a missile launch officer in the Air Force. 
Get all the details ... no obligation, of course. 
For more information call Capt. Davis at 283-66~fs 
Put it all together in Air Force ROTC. 
-----------------------------------~ 
' e .t • '~ •• • • .~ .-• • • ,,. ". •' • ~ ('
'lJoJ <l· .1 I l .·1 .... •,f .• :·.r.' "';·.~~:·~ .:·, J·~tJ 1 .; 

01
:.~: ~·~ .....~·:•.-.:. ~.~--r" I·•• :... ' ~: ·~l~.J.t.. • , ,t I ',t' I I/t I 1° 1• ....-·••,/'/I • ~·,.·:....-:I •~·:.~~•• /~l '.t .: . \·, /'i :•.J~,·'_l !--'~,.,\_~-· ·_.~' ••·'..· ••~••·J ,·l .. •·.... / .... ·••• lj~. ·4,>,.)• 
• 
-----------~~~---~-­
Monday, March 71 1977 the observer 1_ 


NOcagers receive NCAA bid *ObserVer 
by Paul Stevenaon feated by the University of Conne­Other contests in the East Re­Sports Writer cticut last year in the opening gional are VMI against Duquense round of the NCAA's in overtime. and Princeton vs. Kentuck¥· The Notre Dame Athletic Depart­At one point, Hofstra held a 15 
In the West Regional, UCLA 
ment has accepted an invitation for point advantage, but due to the 
meets Louisville, and either San 
the Irish basketball team to partici-1 fouling out of three starters, their 
Diego St. or San Jose St. will 


Sports
· pate in the NCAA tournament. lead eventually dwindled. 
confront Idaho St. In games played 
The invitation, which was of-· Hofstra, which is located in 
in Tucson, St. John's will face Utah 
ficially announced on the NBC : Hempstead, N.Y., has battled a­
and USF will challenge UNTV:
television network at 3 p.m. (ESn, ; gainst three common Irish oppo­
In the Midwest Regional, Cinci­
placed the Irish in the East · nents. The Flying Dutchmen were 
nnatti will meet Marquette and
Regional to confront Hofstra Col-· edged by the University of Vermont 
lege in Philadelphia. 87-86 in Burlington, while the Southern lllinois will face Arizona Irish pucksters tie Badgers in Omaha, while Kansas St. will
The Flying Dutchmen won the Notre Dame cagers annihilated the 
meet Providence and Arkansas will 
in Saturday night contest
East Coast Basketball League for ' Catamounts 89-48 at the ACC. 
-
-

the second consecutive year. The Irish and the Flying Dutch­tackle Wake Forest. Hofstra beat LaSalle 92-81, an , 1 men found themselves on the fcontlnued from page 8] trate on playing hockey. Meredith,
The Mideast pits Michigan a­
opponent which the Irish em­losing end of an identical 64-62 Nho played outstanding in both
gainst Holy Cross and UNC-Char­
barrassed 113-77, last Saturday score against -Villanova. The the game. -~ontests-,later scooped UIJ o~.n eu·ant·
lotte against either Miami of Ohio 
night to capture the conference title Hofstra cagers were downed by In tne s'econd .period, Dave pass and went in alone on sheer 
or Central Michigan in Blooming­
and finish the season with a 23-6 Manhattan 78-77 at the Garden, Lundeen scored on a Dave Herbst hustle, only to be_thwarted by Mike ledger. while Notre Dame emerged victor­ton. set-up and the Badgers went up by Dibble waiting at the other end. 
Baton Rouge will be the site of
Forward John Irving is the star of ious from that east coast encounter a 2-1 margin. The Badgers Nothing eventuated from a hard­the Roger Gaeckler coached squad. with the Jaspers 86-82. the Middle Tennessee vs. Detroit threatened to widen that margin skated overtime period. Mike Irving is currently leading the The Flying Dutchmen have and Tennessee against Syracuse when they went on the 5-3 advant-Dibble and John Peterson both country in rebounding with 16 beaten two other teams which have meetings. age, but excellent Irish penalty made many fine saves, and both caroms per game. The Hofstra received an invitation to the NCAA "We're just glad we got a bid killing, led by Donny Fairholm were saved by the goaltenders best forward finished third last year and tournament. Hofstra downed Du­and now we just have to prove stymied the glorious Badger oppor-friends on several occasions, as first in the 1974-75 season. quense 76-70 while sliding past we're worthy of it," Irish mentor tunity. With Nugent off for both Wisconsin and Notre Dame 
Irving's teammate, swingman Southern Illinois 77-76. Digger Phelps commented. "We roughing and with an Irish player wingers oanged the posts and Rich Laurel, is currently the fifth If Notre Dame defeats Hofstra, can't afford to take Hofstra lightly. serving a slashing penalty for John cross-bars in attempts to win the leading scorer in the country with a they head to College Park, Mary­They received an NCAA bid, so Peterson, the penalty killing unit sudden-death playoff. 
29.9 clip. land to tackle the winner of the they can't be a bad team. We're went to work and effectively thwar-Amidst all the roughness that 
The Flying Dutchmen were de-North Carolina -Purdue clash. _just going to do '?ur best." ted goals that could have made the characterized that tWo game series, difference in the game. As it was, it seemed to be inevitable that the Badgers skated off with a 2-1 someone would have to get hurt. lead. Unfortunately for the Irish, going 
Mike Eaves opened the last into playoffs, it had to be Steve regulation period with the Badger's Schneider, who was taken to the

Purdue heads popcorn research 
third goal, when he received an hospital. 
errant pass and skated in alone, For Coach Lefty Smith, a split WEST LAFAYE'ITE, Ind. [AP] agriculture engineer, said expan-the extent of kernel damage in the puting the-puck by John Peterson. would have been nice, but a tie was -Expansion volume is at the heart sion volume is determined by harvesting process," Lien said. The 1Irish came storming back,. better than a loss. of popcorn research, successful comparing the volume of p\)pped Dr. G. C. Haugh, said impr()per. however, as Clark Hamilton, set up "I'm pleased to see us come popcorn production and the na-corn and the weight of the unpopp-harvesting can reduce expansion by Paul Clarke and Kevin Nugent, back as we did and play well tion's only active popcorn research ed kernels. A kernel "pops" volume 25 percent. Forward travel lifted the puck above Mike Dibble's tonight,"· commented Smith, "es­program, headquartered at Purdue because of moisture trapped within speed equipment, the concave left shoulder, and the momentum pecially after last nights game." University here. it is converted to steam as the · clearance of the cylinder and the shifted towards the Irish. One of Coach Smith's comments 
The research and subsequent kernel is heated which eventually operating speeds of the cylinder After three minutes of steady was undeniable. The fans who saw 
·jump in the expansion volume of triggers an explosion, he said. can all damage kernels and reduce pressure by several different Irish Saturday's game certainly got their popcorn, is partially responsible for Typically, one, pound of popcorn crop values, he said. lines, Donny Fairholm brought money's worth. For the Irish, an $11 million popcorn crop in will produce more than four gallons Lien said popcorn, unlike field down the house when he slipped perhaps it was proof that they can Indiana, said agricultural statisti-of popcorn. corn, is usually grown on contract the puck behind Mike Dibble tying defeat the team that is without a 
clans at Purdue. H "f k 1 · d d
owever, I a erne ts amage , between the farmer .and the pop-the score. doubt number one. First, however, 
Since 1954, Hoosier farmers th · 1 "ll b T f h · 1 h h •--k th"
e expansiOn vo ume wt e corn processor. "It's a system that he rest o t e game was stmp y t e Iris must J\JV towards ts have steadily increased the land impaired, he said. Purdue re-works well," he said. "The dog-eat-dog. Everyone got into the Wednesday when the Minnesota devoted to raising the hybrid corn. search is aimed at finding and processor affords a ready market roughing act. The only member of Golden Gophers will invade for-the Only Nebraska devoted more that correcting the crop damaging var-for the farmer and is assured of a either squad that seemed to keep first round of the WCHA playoffs. Indiana's 45,500 acres to popcorn iables, Lien said. ready source of popcorn to meet the his cool was freshman Greg Tickets for these contests will be on 
Ia~ yea~ M L" d . ·:Expansion volu~e is a &ood product's processing require-Meredith, who took a hard, unseen sale at the ticket office from 9:00 to· 
r. · · ten, a Pur ue mdtcator that readtly determmes ments." elbow and still managed to coneen-5:00. 
NOTICES --~-----·
~------------------------------------·-~~~t!~~s. ~~~\o t~~~p~~~2mhe~us~~ ~~~-_;J~~~i~~~~~~~~-i~-f~~--~~~~;;g si!)g~~;-i·i;;~~~~~-~~t-t~-~~~-k-if·y;;~-..
I CJasszifiz•ed Ads· ----------------------------------------------­
I 
I 
A course of action _ ..Air Force one female, the oter male. $55 call promise to keep your mouth shut! ROTC. If you've got two academic 233-2613 or 259-7488 after 5. Ride needed to NYC-Westchester · Bags B years remaining in school (graduate -----------------------------------------------area. Call Katie 4-4214. ----------------------------------------------­or undergraduate) look into our One four and one six bedroom house -------------·-----------------------------·---Babe, Happy Birthday. Don't worry AFROTC programs. it's one way of with fireplace for rent starting though--you're so sexy you'll never planning for a good future. Get all. September 1977: Furnished. Also, ll,e past your prime. Love, Sunshine the details today. Call 283-6635. super low rates on summer rooms or ·Need ride to KC or KS area. Share FOR SALE ----------------------------------------------­houses. Call 277-3604. Expenses. Bill6768. Cheryl A. Baxa: Happy 21st! From 
I A~~~-;~t~:·;;~~-t---T~~i~;;:·M'~----D<;~~~ ;:i,·;~~---b~d;~~-~---;,-~~-~~--1~~---~~~t t.ieei)RioE'-To·;;;.·:ui.ii)iR_o_..\_L'E ~~P!i~~o :;~~~?~~r mN~k~~·~ ~f~~~~~ ~~~~~;:ef~~e;~~~~i~~brarv and your ho, 232-0746. Hours--8 am to 8 pm. unfurnished. Fenced year. Near SHARE DRIVING EXPENSES$$. mat. Includes sun shade and Tiffen ----------------------------------------------­
1
11

1 usEo--eoo·K·s·.---i:iooi<---a:b:R'N·.---i ~=~i~~a st~g:~;~a Qu~!i 0 ~~?~~b~~~ ~~-~:~~~-~-~-~~~!-~!-~!!______________ ~~n~~~e~i~~~~~, c~~nt~~,a~~~~~u~~ ~~n~i ~~ ~~r;;~~~e~~ ;~~:'fnu1~r~
I ~i~e-~o~-~ o~-~~-~~~-~~-~~-272-5520. hood. ~a_l!_~~~---9~-~~-----------------------~~~::~~P~f!~~~a~~~nngeebdre!~~e~:~ ~~~~~~ni;~~~~n;j, ~~~. t!~~~: ~::t~~:es ~:~~~!~e :hr;::;:o~~~~ Will teach you flute in--y~~-~-~-P~~~ Two bearoom nouse rent. sum-4-4291. Tony. ing forward to them... Love Ram-time. Call Beth 8112 _ mer and or school year. 1012 Eddy ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------bling Cuff
I ,0 
1 
________________________ --------------------Street. $120 per month, plus utili-Need Ride to LaCrosse, Wise. Area Remember '77 bouts witha '77 o:b:R-:Wh~t;;th~-~-~~;;f~-~t~~-~ight-­NEED TYPING? Executary Inc. ties. Call Oddies Harris at 232-8563. for Spring break. Anytime Fr. 11. Bengal Bouts t-shirt. $3.00. Call Professional Typing Service. -------------------------------Need Riders back to SB after break. Greg at 8241 or 8234. Also available to break 150 and Celebrate?! or-· 
85
I c~~-t-~_a_p_ag_e-~3-~:?.~~-~:__________________ ~~~~-----------'::_a_r~------------4---~~-~-~~--~-t--~o-~_t_~-------------------------------------:~:H~i:~~:~:i:-~PARTY;·MON~ 
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND $20_150_ LOST AND FOUND Dayton, anyone? my sister's pipes Stereo Tape Recorder; Revox Mark DAY NIGHT, MARCH 14 AT THEI 1 Day wait, 1 percent interest. Due have frozen and I have to bring her IV--$275.00 RIPTIDE ROOM '111. BLOCKS 
I
12

in 30 days. LaFortune Basement.· Lost: Lady's Gold Watch Could be matches. Can leave Friday after-AR turntable with Sure Vl5--$95.00 FROM THE ESCAPE) BIG MONEY I ~:~-~-~_:_1_~:_1_~-'-~s:____ ____________________ ,~-~~~~-er~~-~-~~~-~~---~~-~~-~~~-~~--------~~~~~~arch 11. call Maureen, 6825 grn~~~~~af:·$75.oo ~~L'E' c~rAED BAu~~· M~~e iANYo I Why pay $10.00 for personalized ~~t~te~tcoNadt -WL.al_tshal~erowganmaen,db!!gaey w'A'N--T--E-·D·-._---2---h--o--u-s_e__m___a_t_e__s___f_o_r____N__D_ -------------------------------RORUKE THE VALENTINES. I
I astrological birth charts from 1·mper-str'lpe around m'ld"'-section. Pl,....ease APT _ d' PERSONALS sonal computers? Detailed typed return. Call 288-7587. ing M~~~e 1\~te~~~~ t~~~;h~; ~~;~-To our former RA Nishan, You used P~t;i~i~-Eii~~~-:-v~~-~-~~-th~--b~~~t~ I
I profiles--$5.00! Call Pat7339. ------'----------------------------------------_ _ t which every man desires, without
288 4113 
1
-----------------------------------------------o a ways be preaching, with the you 1 am lost. My heart is yours1MAY GRADS last day for a Morris-Lost: SR 50 A Calculator in Engin-----------------------------------------------babes you must learn, to always be How'sthatschweetie?! John 
I 

1 
I sey loan is Fri, March ll. Last eering Aud. Reward. Call Frank, -Two girls need ride to Ft. Lauder-firm. "it's my way or the highway." ----------------------------------------------­Application date is March 10_ 1486. ' dale for Spring break. Call 4-4291 or Which way does she go? Concerned
------------------------------------------------------------------------------in Alumni I
4-4378. ~~d~~-I lhog~eisouth~;v~r~v~~rril~~ j~2e ~~~~~~:~~~v:~ai~ffe~:s-~~~i~: ~~~'la~;~enlf tu~~~~~~e ~~~~~e sil~:~~ H-ELP·~-~-~~t-t~·;.;~-b~~~h-iii-2--~i~i~ ;:~---th~---J:B~~;;;---Ch~~~~~~----~~-d negative. M .
I 
1 
gan., is now accepting appl·cat1·ons 4-5337 · need ride to Ft. Lauderdale for Members, On behalf of the election ----------------------------------------------­1 break C II 7401 3725 G _ "E-Z" C. Will trade one dirty
for year-round boa<ding. Indoor. ----------------------------------------------· a or -committee and myself, I would like I 
Lost . S'1lver medal a d h · i'th -------------------------t th k picture for one filthy· joke. How's
arena, heated box stalls, grooming, · n c a1n WI ----------------------o an you for your essential help. your sister?? T exercise and Gain Weight or Thoro-Leo Zodiac sign between ACC and ride needed to Fort Lauderdale for Due to your work the voting came offI !'llood feed s_upplement all ava-lable Grace Monday. Please return if break. Monica 7870. with no significant problems. -----------------------------------------------I1 found H ld t -t 1 1 ------------------T JC, JM, BM, and Bro, Thanks for
fro_m $90.00-$125.00. Please, ap-· o s grea sent1men a va----------------------------hanks again, B. Bode
I ~~~~-~~~~!-~-~~~--6-~~---~~~~-~ ~-~~-~~-~~-~-~~-~-~----------------------------~r~~~ 2s~ra:e ri~~~:~ d~~r;;~~~ 5~1~ 0~~~--Lit~g-~~~d--AL;---H-~~-~d--~-b~~t ~~~s~~e::d ~~<!:lap~i~tLoe~: J~asn't I 
I 
I 
Typists needed to type results of Lost: Blackkeycase--lffound--7836. Bridget-7628, Steve-3213. the rough water you are in. Pleas ----------------------------------------------­National Survey on to computer data -----------------------------------------------WAN-TED_:__ D-ESPERAT--ELY----N--E__E__D_ come home to the Island I am ~otr~a: il~~~~-~:tt ~~t~~~h ~~:f~ cards. Hourly pay. Call Mike at waiting. Love, BB Heather Bonnie Swivel I1 
288-0088 after6 pm Will the person who took the green A RIDE to the Connecticut area for ----------------------------------------------­
1 
------------------------~·-----,.--------b~~!e~ror; ~hned grm/!.th;u:!~ ~~~-~~---~~~-~-~~~-~~-~-~~-~:________________ ~~~-1sT~ ~~~1E;~KB:u~~:J":t~ o~~~-G-~iii~~~~:--H~-~-~b~~t-~-2--.t.:M I 
I 
· FOR RENT PLEASE return the bridge that was Female roommate $50 plus utilities. AND I'LL TAKE YOU OUT Call "soda" with Thelma in Regina's in the pocket to the Lost and Found Pam-6261, after 5. 28a.7468 _ lobby?? Probably So? Love, PH
8436 or 1737. 
All the comforts of Home. Summer Office in the Ad b .,... th ---------------------------~--=--=-----I 
1

I ~;n,t:_l. ~~~~~e~ry~r~e~rg:~!~g~ Observer of~c~, or ca~' ;;~:~ N: N~~d-~~d~-t~--~~-~~h~-~~-~~--w-~~;;--[)c DESPERATELY--~-~~-d--~~d~--;~--~~~--Good st1ow~f'f,~~;na~ !/~~s~~sday!
yard. All utilities included. Near ques •ons as e_ _. ____ area for break. Will share driving where in Florida for just 1. Will pay 
1

I ~:::~:::;~::·~~~:~:~~~~:-~~.-k-t~ wAN1'ED ~-~:~:;:~:::S--~~:!.;y~~-,~-;-t;~~~k: i~i';~:~~~i~;~~~~~~-~:~:~~~--~~~~-~~?-::~~~~~~~::-~~--9i~d--y;;~--~~-~::c:~~~ I I 
I campus, renting to students this Urgent 2 girls need ride to Ft. Will ~plit up, share .expenses. Call We love you!! Band K grats! You don't know how hard it is I fall. tall259-7488 after s. Lauderdale. Call-4168 SMC. Debbie 7906, Jeannie 7918, Ellen ---------.--------.------------------··:·-------to calm Judee down!! ~~---------------7874. _ .,. To the 1llustnous Mary C. Fmeran,
--------"•-:___________________________________ I
I 4 Bedrooms, livin ro~;;;d.-...r·· --WA-.qTED: Ride to Louisville Frida ........:<•••••••• ¥'.o ....n.::._~~:--------------~------wherever you may be. Give my -------·-·:··--------_:·-.-----------:~---­room, kitchen. Utinties pa,id ·~~~~ March 1 L Call Sue 7938 or Collee~ , NEED RIDE TO GREEN BA-Y -regards to Galesburg-·! hear it's a ~e_~ld r~de to PIH. for sp~n: ~'"!"ak, oer month. Call Oscar 233-1850 7921. AREA ON March 11. Happy to swell place to be. We'll find out J I k ;4:3re expenses an riVIng. 
I 


' 




~------------------~h~==.:'.:~~--~;:.:b-.;;;~----.:.------" 
the observer Monday, March 7, 1977
8 

~~------~------~~----~---­
ND cagers dump No. 1 Dons, 93-82 

of their game. that sent them on a scoring spree his reason for going with the Williams garnered the game's stripe in six attempts. 
In a first half marked with which proved to be the decisive spread. high scoring honors with 25 points, Awarded the "Most Valuable turnovers, the lead changed hands factor in the game's outcome. "The flow was going back and finishing the day nine of sixteen Player" award by NBC announcers a number of times before San After two tfast-break buckets, forth between San Francisco and from the field and seven of eight Billy Packer and Dick Enberg, the Francisco jumped to a 27-21 ad­Phelps sent his team into a ourselves and we felt that we could from the foul line. Toby Knight Notre Dame student body was, in vantage, their widest margin of the four-corner offense. The move beat them with the spread. I felt finished with 19 points followed by the words of Duck Williams, day, on a Marlon Redmond Jay-up allowed Duck Williams to exploit a that Puck and Rich could handle it Paterno with 16, Branning with 14, terrific. with 8:25 remaining in the half. weak San Francisco middle de-so we went to it." and Batton showing 13 as the Irish "They pulled us through a 
Then senior forward Bill Paterno fense, as the Irish out-defensed, Statistically, it was Notre Dame ended with five players in the number of times this year. I am took over playing tough defense out-shot, and out-scored the Dons on top in every category except twin-figures category. For San really glad they got the award... and providing ten of Notre Dame's 24-10 and grabb.ed a 81-70 lead. shooting percentage where the Francisco, Boynes, displaying ex-they deserved it." . . 19 points in the final minutes of the Williams, commenting on the four-Dons held a SO to 49 percent edge. ceptional accuracy from the field, A jubilent Phelps talked about half to bring the Irish within two. corner spread remarked, "I knew I Off the boards the Irish were hit on 11 of 16 attempts for 23 the Notre Dame spirit evident Rich Branning sank two from the was quicker than my opponent and flawless grabbing 42 caroms to San points. Redmond added 18, Cart-throughout the contest: gift line to tie the score at 42 before the spread allowed me to take Francisco's 33. Toby Knight wright contributed 15, Hardy had "It's ND man! It goes back to Dave Batton connected on a turn­advantage of that. When we grabbed 14 for the victors while 12 and Cox finished with 10 tallies. Knute. The ,last three weeks St. around shot at the buzzer to give spread it out, some see it as a stall, Williams, Dave Batton and Bruce Commenting on the game, Jude has been good to me and I'm the Irish a 44-42 edge going into but it really isn't." Flowers pulled down five apiece. Gaillard cited the play of Paterno as not ashamed to admit it either." the second half. Wllliams certainly took advant-Marlon Redmond retrieved 10 re-a deciding factor in the outcome. The Joss prevented San Fran-
San Francisco came out of the age of the situation, burning San bounds for the Dons while Winfred "He is a great ball player. He's cisco from becoming the ninth team locker room and quickly regained Francisco guards Winfred Boynes Boynes gathered eight and James a senior and this was his last game in NCAA history to finish the the lead on a couple of quick shots and Chubby Cox for 14 points in an Hardy seven. Seven foot All-here so I guess he went out in season undefeated as the Dons by Redmond before Toby Knight's eight minute span. , American center, Bill Cartwright style." Paterno made good on five show a 29-1 record for the year. slam dunk gave the Irish a 57-56 Phelps cited his conuoence m could manage only two rebounds of seven atteJTipts from the field Notre Dame, 20-6 closes its season lead and provided the inspiration guards Branning and Williams as on the afternoon. and was perfect from the charity tonight at DePaul. 
leers salvage tie in weekend series 
by Gregory Solman Dame crowd; but th(:n, they had With Bob Suter in the sin-bin for Irish escaped from their own we were too tight. Maybe we 
powerplay untouched. didn't want it badly enough.''
Sports Writer more to be vocal about. The roughing, the Irish capitalized on If the Irish were embarrasedBadgers gangtackled the Irish their second powerplay opportunity Minutes later; it was Wisconsin 
squad Friday night with an embar­with the one man advantage when Friday, they did themselves proud
If there was any doubt in the of the night, when Donny Fair­Geoff Collier went off for tripping. Saturday. From the Wisconsinmind's oflrish fans as to who is the rassing 8-3 trouncing. The follow­holm, set up by Dukie Walsh and This time the Irish weren't so standpoint, little changed. Badger
best hockey team in the WCHA, ing night, the Irish levied a third Kevin Nugent, blasted a snap :;hot the Wisconsin Badgers proved that period attack to bring the game into from six feet out that found its way fortunate, and Mark Johnson netminding was still the hottest they were Friday night. If there overtime, where it ended a 3-3 tie. between the legs of Julian Baretta. scored with help from Norwich and thing since the Chicago fire. The 
In the first game of the series, Taft to put the Badgns out in front vocal Badger fans, decked in
was any doubt after Friday's game Les Grauer evened the tally at 
as to whether the Irish were the Irish were clearly outplayed by 1-1 when he took a pass from Rod 2-1. Johnson's shot was one that crimson red continued to razz the capable of defeating that number the feisty Badgers. They were not Romanchuk and started the scoring Moher might have stopped on one Irish goaltender with yells of one squad, Saturday night may only beaten on the scoreboard, they in what would be a long night for of his better nights, but this wasn't "Sieve, sieve" and imply through 
have proved that they are. In anv were intimidated on the ice as well. Irish netminder Lenny Moher. one of the better nights for the Irish their posters that Notre Dame's "That was pathetic, absolutely team or their goaltender. Catholicism was something to be
case, one has to wonder if the Irish The Irish had another powerplay The Irish evened the score when scoffed at.
will go into the playoffs Wednesday pathetic," commented a dejected opportunity when Les Grauer was Terry Fairholm slapped the puck From the Irish standpoint, every­
against Minnesota an inspired Coach Lefty Smith. "I thought we called for tripping, but the hapless hockey team, or a team that will had an excellent week of practice. I icers had all they could do to keep through the middle, and Steve thing changed. The defense was more alert, allowing less Badgers
still be "seeing red." don't understand it. We stunk." from being. scored on short-hand­Schneider tipped it home. 
Whatever the case, the Irish had The powerplay of Bob Johnson's to cruise in unassailed upon the net
Tl-te Badgers invaded the ACC ed. Steve Alley took advantage of a Badgers proved unstoppable again, minder. The passing was sharper.
sporting a 25-5-0 record and a mob their problems containing the pow­defensive breakdown, and cruised as Wisonsin's Mark Johnson scor­The penalty killing unit may wellof fans that were, at times, more erful attack of one of the best­in unassailed on Lenny Moher. 
have had their best night of thevocal than the entirety of the Notre traitted teams in college hockey. Moher was equal to the test and the ed on an instant replay to end the first period scoring. year ... but then, they had to. It was 
In the second period, Johnson's one of the most physical games of "big red machine" went into action the long season. once again. Displaying remarkable From the moment the Irish "puck-sense" and passing ability, started skating, you knew they the Badgers badgered Lenny were a different team than they had Moher with three more goals, two been the night b~fore. The first by Steve Alley and the other by period started out with fast skating Dave Lundeen. Ray Johnson action at both ends of the ice. answered with a goal from Tom However, when Tom Ulseth scored Michalek and Ted Weltzin to bring with the game but one minute old, 
the Irish back to a three goal visions of the night before danced deficit. The period ended with the in the heads of Irish fans. His goal Badgers in front 6-3. was set up by Steve Alley, who 
Wisonsin made it academic with along with John Taft was skating goals by Lundeen and Craig with the U.S. Olympic team at this Norwich. and the game ended a 8-3 time last year -an Olympic team route for the Badgers. Julian coached by Badger mentor Bob Baretta was outstanding with 40 Johnson. 
saves in the game. Between Ulseth's goal and the 
"This is a good hockey club," equalizer by Ted Weltzin, nearing commented Smith after the game, the end of the stanza. little hap­"and I don't mean to take anything pened aside from tempers flaring. 
away from them. but 8-3 is an Kevin Nugent was going heavily at embarrasment." it with Brad Mullens. Dave Herbst Coach Smith cited several of his and Dukie Walsh were exchanging teams shortcomings in the game. glances. Hcan checking was the 
"We wandered around too order of the da~·. until IX::>:>. wh•·:: 


much. and didn't read well. We Geoff Collier and Tnn Fairhol111 
Even normally mild-mannered Jack Brownschidle was provoked into the roughness that sl"t up V\',·lttin·, l!llal to dcadlp,·k
had some excellent npportunitic~
characterized last weekend's hockey series. [Photo by Tony Chifari] 
that we ·railed to. com·crt. Mavhc /t·unl ima·d on pagt• ?j 





