
Mulcahy discusses questions concerning housing contracts 
by Jerry Perez added that in his five years as The contract also states, "The rector of Planner, he had not University shall not be liable for In an interview yesterday, Fr. encountered many rectors who any damage or loss of any of the John "Moose" Mulcahy, director would exercise the right. resident's personal property from of student residence, diseussed Mulcahy claimed that he had any cause whatsoever.'' When certain questions raised by the never entered a student's room asked if "any cause whatsoever" university's contract for under­without permission. According to included ·the negligence of dormi­graduate housing. Topics covered him, there are other, less drastic tory maids or the dormitory itself included the university's contrac­ways to handle routine dormitory (e.g., the unexpected activation of tual responsibility to the student situations. "In the case of a the heating system melts a stu­and the student's right to privacy. parietal violation, you use the dent's record albums), Mulcahy 
The housing contract to which all phone," he suggested .. " 'Pardon answered that he could not be students residing on campus must me, what time does your Lady certain of the decision in those agree states, "The University re­Timex say?' The message is cases. serves the right ... to enter rooms conveyed. Like I say, there doesn't Mulcahy also did not know without a search warrant for the have to be a conflict." whether any legal action taken on purpose of maintaining security, Nevertheless, Mulcahy saw the the student's part in such cases discipline and the orderly operation potential to exercise the rector's could overstep the terms of the of an educational institution.'' right to enter as essential to the contract. "You're going to have to Mulcahy denied <;barges that the hall's operation. "What about the ask a lawyer," he said. "This kind "right to enter" clause was an kid who no one has seen for a of contract is not like pne between invasion of privacy. "I do not see it week? What about the rain coming landlord and tenant. They differ in as a waiving of rights," he admitt­in an open window? There are so law." ed. "I don't see a conflict. Parents many good reasons that you would The actual extent of the univer­come in your room at home." want to go in." sity's duty to the student, accord­
Although Mulcahy acknowledg­Mulcahy denied that he would ing to Mulcahy, includes mainten­ed a Constitutional provision for without permission enter a room to ance of good living conditions and the right to privacy, he denied its search for or confiscate drugs. protection against such things as pertinence to educational institu­When asked if a rector who did so fire and intruders. Concerning the tions. "These things have already would be violating the student's protection of personal belongings, been in the courts," he explained. right to privacy, he replied that it he remarked, "The University's 
Mulcahy ascertained that under was an unfair question. To the role is different from that of a cop. the contract, a rector could enter a statement that it was merely a Whenever you deal with this, room at any time and for any hypothetical one, Mulcahy replied, you're getting into the 'pseudo reason whatsoever. However, he "No, it is not." parentis' thing.'~ 

Four-point plan designed 
Joint effort initiated for Logan fight 
the state capitol if necessary. members who voted for the cut to believe they are, i don't think
Michael Lewis and I hope they reconsider their
Finally, we are prepared to actively visit Logan and witness "the they'll be able to go back down
Staff Reporter decision,'' he continued. 
campaign against those legislators community, happiness, frustra­there and cut that $10 million out," Sitting on the panel with BenderStudent Body President Dave who voted for the cut," Bender ti6ns and love that happens when he said. and Soma were Mary Rukavina,Bender announced the coordinated stated. we all get together." "One thing I'm sure of. Money SMC student body president; Joeefforts of Notre Dame and St. "We feel that the time has come "Ifafter that they can go back to can't buy happiness but in this case Gill, executive coordinator of theMary's to actively oppose the to end our indifference and proc­Indianapolis <!nd cut $10 million the lack of it would deprive a lot of Notre Dame student government;
recent Logan Center budget cuts at claim our commitment to the from the budget, so be it. But if people of a lot of happiness. I don't and Art Koebbel, a student coordi­
a press conference held in the Christian ideals we praise so thev're men of integrity, which I think that's what anybody wants, nator for the Logan volunteers. LaFortune ballroom yesterday. strongly," he continued. The student governments of Notre Responding to a: question con­Dame and St. Mary's College are cerning the plan's success, Ben­
Soma seeks HPC help for Logan,
working together to oppose the der said, "We feel that if we can cuts. ~ engage in an active letter writing Calling the cut an "insensitive, campaign we can make a change. 



Council picks Huard as SLC rep
apparently politically motivated In addition, between the two decision," Bender outlined a four­campuses there are over 2000 by Diane Wllson point plan designed to reverse the voters registered in the state of Senior Staff Reporter decision to trim the budget. Indiana, which would have some 
The student government's impact on the political climate.'' Tom Soma, student body vice­actions stem from a recent vote by University President Fr. Theo­president, gave an appeal for helpthe State Budget Committee to cut dore Hesburgh is in Vienna and in the campaign to fight the Logan$750,000 (or approximately half) could not be reached for comment. Center budget cut at last night's
from the budget of the St. Joseph However, Bender noted that Dean Hall President's Council meeting.County Council for the Retarded. of Students James Roemer and Soma explained that the $10 1 Ten million dollars are being Vice-President of Student Affairs million cuts would result in the 
trimmed from similar programs Bro. Just Paczesny support the elimination of all activities for the 
throughout the state. The. cuts are student government's actions. 
retarded at Logan Center outside of 

scheduled to go into effect Nov. 1. He also mentioned that Student 
the actual school. He urged all the 

Bender said that the plan has Body Vice-President Tom Soma 
hall presidents to inform the resi­

already been put into action. "We was to address the Hall President's 
dents of their halls about the 

have already begun a letter writing Council on the Logan issue last 
situation and to write letters to the 

campaign to the legislators invol­night. In addition, the staff and 
Indiana state budget committee. 

ved and to Governor Bowen. We parents of Logan were to meet at 
Soma stressed that the Student 

are in the process of contacting key the center yesterday evening. 
Government is ''going all out to 

Notre Dame alumni within the Soma, who is also a volunteer at 
oppose it" and that "everyone's

state, and we will join AI Soenneker Logan, said, "Logan has been a involved." 
and the parents and patients of pretty important part of my life 
Tom Gryp, student union direct­

Logan Center in a lobbying effort at here." He invited the committee or, reported to the council that Campus Press is now open from 1-5 
p.m. in the basement of LaFortune. He emphasized that ifthe "student body does not use it, it will close." He also gave a brief explanation of how the calendar office was to work. He stated that it was not a ' regulatory office, but an informa­Student Union executive manage­last night were Mary McCormick, 
tion office to keep a record of what ment and the Student Body Presi­who asked the presidents for their is going on and when. dent. support ofthe Urban Plunge. Gary 
Gryp explained that discount Several hall presidents were Luchini, Student Life ~uncil NOrth PlJtt Tickets, presently sold only concerned with this policy of pre­Quad representative explained how th'rough the Student Union, will be ferential ticket distribution. Gryp the SLC worked and what it available for sale to hall treasurers also· explained that the Student handled. Also present was John so that students rna~ receive them Union Board of Directors has Rooney, An Tostal chairman, who after the Student Union office is approved a policy to pull 25 announced that the budget meeting 
closed. These tickets sell for $1.50 pairs of complimentary tickets and 
will be held tonight at 6:30p.m. on and are good for attendance to five 25 preferential treatment tickets, 
the first floor of LaFortune. This meeting is open to the public. 
theaters in the South Bend area. for all concerts offered by Student Gryp clarified the situation sur­Union to be distributed within the In other business, the HPC voted rounding U.S.C. tickets that were Student Union itself. _ to elect Mark Huard, Keenan Hall 
eliminated from the homecoming J.P. Russell, HPC Chairman and president, as the Council's SLC packages. These 32 tickets, pulled the student director of the United representative. from a group of 500 specifically for Way -gave a brief explaination of Before closing the meeting, it the Student Union Homecoming how the fund-raising from dorm to was announced that the presidents 
package, were distributed as fol­dorm will occur this year. lie should start getting their proposals lows: eight to steve Miller, two to appealed to the HPC members for ready for the Hall Improvement the winner of the Helen of Troy any suggestion and he will consider Fund. Activity sheets for the 
contest to be held during Home­them at the next HPC meeting. month of September were collected coming week, and the rest to Others who spoke to the HPC at the end of the meeting. 






the observer._ ~edn_e_sday, September 28, 1977 
,_News Briefs_____ 
.,__________-_-___-__-_-==--World 
Japanese _jetliner crashes 
KUALA LUMPUR, Malaysia·· A Japan Airlines jetliner carrying 70 passcng_ers and crew crashed and burned in a rubber plantation n?r~h of Kuala Lumpur yesterday, killing at least 17 persons, an a1rltne spokesman said. First reports said 46 persons were seriously injured in the crash. 

r-=:==-=::::=:::=:~======:=::::::-:::-::=::::::::::== National 
Bankers ask .for no restrictions 
WASHINGTON ·· Officers of three banks that made personal loans to Bert Lance after he placed depositors' money from his own banks in interest-free accounts with them urged Congress yesterday not to restrict such practices. 

Senators propose gas compromise 
WASHINGTON ·· Senators advocating deregulation of natural gas prices presented a compromise proposal yesterday in an effort to breal a stalemate that is sending the Senate into possible arOt:nd-the-clock sessions. A filibuster led by a few Senate liberals opposed to any relaxation of gas price controls has tied up debate since last week despite a thus-far futile effort by Senate leaders to get tina] action on the bill. 


Weather 
Sunny and cool today with highs around 70. Increasing cloudiness and mild tonight with a slight chance for showers late. Low tonight around SO. Mostly cloudy and warmer tomorrow with a good chance for shower~ o,flnd thunderstorms. Probability of precipitation 20 percent tomgnt. 

~On Campus Today_ __..._. 
12:15 pm 
3:25pm 

6 pm 6:30pm 7 pm 
7 pm 
7:30pm 
7:30pm 
8:15pm 9-11 pm midnight 


SMC's new coffeehouse opens doors successfully 
By Brigid Rafferty Staff Reporter 

St. Mary's new coffeehouse, 
"Charlie's Place," enjoyed a 
successful opening night last Fri­
day, according to Karen Bickel, 
Social Commission member in 
charge of coordinating coffeehouse 
activities. 
"We had a turnout of approx­imately 100 people, which seemed really good for the first night, considering that people didn't hear about 'Charlie's Place' until late," said Bickel. "People seemed to enjoy it.'' 
"Charlie's Place" provided musical performances by John Daley, John Pietzak, Ed Byrnes, Jake Schneider, and Bill Carey as Friday's entertainment. Large cookies sold by the dining hall, free chips and pretzels, and candles on the tables were extra features at the coffeehouse. 
"We plan to have as many different types of local talent as possible here, and we will always have some kind of snack bar special," continued Bickel, noting seminar, "microbial growth kinetics and seawater chemistry", by dr donald buttons, sponsored by the micro-bia dept., galvin life-sci ctr. rom. 278 
seminar, "automotive fuels and lubricants for the 1980's by sam west, sponsored by the chem. eng. dept., rm. 269 chem. eng. building, open to the public 
class, nd judo club, a.c.c. wrestling room, public is invited 
meeting, sailing club, rm. 204 engineering building, all welcome 
radio free nd, "urban plunge", wsnd 640 a.m. 
colloquiam, sponsored by the theo., dept., rm 122 hayes-healy 
american scene, "American culture: a cross cultural look at america from an anthropological prospective", by ernst von rahl, carroll hall, smc 
lecture, "careers in chem. engineering" by sam west, sponsored by chem. eng., engine~ring aud., open to all 
recital, adrian bryttan, sponsored by the music dept., lib. aud. 
nazz, "jazz at the nazz", the 3 o'clock nd jazz combo, basement of Iafortune 
wsnd album hour, kalpana "kalpana Ill", wsnd 640 am 
that "Charlie's Place" will be open on alternate Friday evenings, from 9 p.m. to midnight in the snack bar ilrea of the dining hall. 
"We're not trying to compete with the Nazz," she commented, "We just want to be able to provide something for people to do when there aren't a lot of other activities here." 
Any student who is interested in performing at "Charlie's Place," or is willing to help set up equipment or redecorate the area is urged to contact Karen Bickel at 4035. 
The Observer Is published Mon­day through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. Tt)e Observer Is published by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $20 per year (S 1o per semester) from-The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Indiana, 46556. . The Observer Is a member of the Associated Press. All repro­dudlon rights are reserved. 




KKK marches once again 
MONTGOMERY* Ala. (AP)­With a medley of tunes, not just the old theme song of racial strife, the hooded remnants of the Ku Klux Klan are marching again. And, again, they are encountering angry resistance black and white. 
But the battleground is moving also to the courts, says Imperial Wizard Robert M. "Bobby" Shelton. And, he says, in combating school busing "we're even offering our legal services to blacks." 
Some black parents indicated a willingness to accept the offer, Shelton says, "but the NAACP and other organizations scared them off.'' 
Shelton, who reigns over the United Klans of America, says the KKK is becoming more 
• aggressive and more visible in court and in the streets. And, as before, its marches have touched off racial violence even though Klan leaders, in some instances, maintained that their protests' were aimed at nonracial issues. About 100 Klansmen who par­aded through downtown Mobile last Saturday carried signs de­nouncing the state's work release program for prisoners, which allows convicts to take outside jobs before they are released. ' 
Blacks stood by, jeering the 

New film series planned. 

white-robed marchers and drowning out their speakers with songs and freedom chants. 
A black policeman, Donald Pinkney, off duty and out of uniform was beaten by fellow officers and arrested on a charge of assaulting another policeman. Pinkney's father said his son attended the rally merely as a "citizen and observer," ready to assist any other officer who might 
need help.  ·  
Other  Klansmen.  with  the  
public  support  of  a  black  city  

councilman, have been given a permit to parade this Saturday in downtown Montgomery. The target of their protest, they say, is the Panama Canal treaty. 
Luther Oliver, one of four blacks on the nine-member City Council supported the request for a parade permit, and even offered to sponsor it if requested,. He said he is a strong believer in the constitutional right of free speech. 
But Alabama Atty. Gen. Bill Baxley says he has nothing but scorn for the Klan and its claims of increased strength. "They're just a small group of misfits, outlaws," he says. . "They are more vocal than numerous." 
Baxley, a likely candidate for governer next year, has spent much of his time in recent 

however, that six "economically risky" films have been chosen by the Student Union to be shown at no charge to the students.. "For this," he said, "I'm grateful. But I really doubt that it will be a permanent policy.'' 
Although no films have yet been ordered for the new series sche­duled to begin next. semester, O'Sullivan noted that domestic as well as foreign films will be shown,. with emphasis placed on "cultu­rally significant" films and direc­tors. 
The society's other founders, Bill Farmer and Jon B. O'Sullivan, are planning to involve faculty mem­bers as well as other students in the group. "A lot of the faculty are really interested in starting a film series. Sister Elaine DesRosiers, Director of Educational Media, ran a good film series this summer that developed a following, and maybe we'd continue doing that," O'Sul­livan said. 
· For the future, a student film festival and "make-your-own" films program are being considered by the group," according to O'Sul­
livan. 
L.LJ 

months investigating the bombings which spread death and destruction through Alabama in the mid-and early 1960's. 
As a result of the investigations, a specially convened grand. jury in Birmingham indicted 73-year­old Robert Edward Chambliss·on a murder charge Monday for a church bombing in Birmingham on Sept. 15, 1963, which killed four young black girls. 
Shelton says the Klan is "moving more into the arena of the courts" because "if the courts can give power to minor­ities, we have rights in court, too." 

Alcohol injures unborn children 

The effects of alcohol on the unborn baby and other crucial questions about drinking during pregnancy can be found in the new March of Dimes pamphlet, "When You Drink, Your Unborn Baby Does, Too." 
Suspicion that alcoholism during pregnancy harms the unborn goes back for many years. Now there is strong research evidence that women who drink excessively during pregnancy actually do run an increased risk of having children with birth defects. 
Studies show that many children born to women who drank heavily while pregnant have a pattern of physical and mental defects. This is called "fetal alcohol syndrome." 
The March of Dimes mission is protection of the unborn and the new-born from birth defects. In an effort to achieve this goal, the voluntary health agency supports medical service, research, com­munity service, and professional and public ht~alth education pro­grams, 
*The Observer 
Night Editor: Bob [3ritlk Asst. Night Editor: Sandy Colson Layout Staff: Margie Brassil, Eve Tunkelrott, Mary Palum­
bo ' 
Editorial Layout: Rick LaBelle Sports Layout: Tony Pace Typists: Mark Rust, Tricia 

Meehan, Tom Powanda, Mar­di Nevin E.M.T.: K. Chiames Day Editor: Maribeth Moran, Ann Bathon Copy Reader: Mike Villani, Ann Grzybowski Photographer: Debbie Krilich 
Wednesday, September 28, 1977 the observer 



Alumni Board of Directors meets this week 
by Susie Meyers 

Members of the Notre Dame Alumni Board of Directors will begin arriving today to attend a series of meetings on campus this week. Joseph McGiyn, a St. Louis attorney and Executive President of the Board, will preside over the meetings to be held Thursday; Friday and Saturday. 
Highlighting the schedule of conferences for the nineteen board members is a concluding dinner Saturday night honoring Father Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C. Gene­ral business will be discussed at separate sessions over the three­day period, and will range from briefings on continuing education, to reports on the athletic ticket situation for alumni. National alumni club goals and general activities will also be topics for 
discussion. 
Guest speakers will include Father Robert Griffin, C.S.C., Uni­versity Chaplain; Student Body President Dave Bender; and James Frick, Vice-President of Public Relations. The Notre Dame Glee Club will perform at a dinner Thursday evening, and the Board will attend Friday's pre-game pep rally in Stepan Center. 
The Alumni Board of Directors meets three times each year, and represents the 60,000 members of the Notre Dame Alumni Associa­tion. Founded in the early 1920's, the Board is composed of fifteen regional representatives from various sections of the country, and three members who have gradu­ated from the University within the past five years. The honorary president, or immediate past presi­dent, fills the remaining position on the board. 
The members of the Board of Directors are elected by the contri­butors to the Notre Dame Annual Fund. Each board member may 

Students unhappy with seating for homecoming concert 
by Lou Severino Commissioner Orest Deychakiw­
sky, and Ticket Manager Joe 
Lacosta. 
"Our group figured that since 

Students who. purchased Steve this year's homecoming game was Miller concert tickets as part of the with USC, that the gan.e tickets homecoming package were dis­would be the big drawing card. pleased to find that the tickets were Also, since the Student Union in the bleacher section and not ticket allotment numbered only padded seats as they were last 1,000 padded seats, it would have year. The Student Union Social taken almost half of our allotment Commission took charge of hand­to fill the homecoming packages," ling the sale of the packages. The said Lacosta. "We decided in decision to include bleacher seats fairness to everyone to save the as part of the package was made by best floor seats for the lottery at a committee consisting of Student LaFortune, and use the next best Union Director Tom Gryp, Social seats for the homecoming pack-

Woman attempts sale without proper permit 
by Tony Pace Staff Reporter 
A young woman was escorted from campus by Notre Dame security last Thursday for soliciting magazine subscriptions in Flanner Hall without the permission of Student Activities. Though the incident involved possible fraud, no charges were brought against the woman. 
The woman, who identified her­self as "Dawn Lavern, a Notre Dame freshman," said she was involved in a magazine subscrip­tion competition. Dan McGrath, a Flanner freshman whom she ap­proached, stated, "She said she would receive a cash award if she accumulated the most points in the competition. These points were awarded on the basis of the number of subscriptions she sold or so she said." 
McGrath was interested in a subscription to Field and Stream, so he listened to her sales pitch. He said, "The price seemed a bit expensive, $22.00 for 36 issues. It seemed pretty convenient though." 
But discrepancies appeared in the woman's presentation. While she said she could win $2,000, the sheet she carried to explain the contest had $1,000 listed as the top prize. McGrath said, "She said that her competition was some­thing special. 
"Then," he continued, "she said there was an ad in the Observer explaining the drive. When we couldn't find the ad, she said it was in yesterday's paper." 
At this point, Herman Barthel, the section leader, called the Student Union to see if they had any knowledge of the magazine sale. They did not. McGrath, however, still wanted the subscrip­tion. He asked her about payment and "she said that she needed full payment today (Thursday), be­cause it was the last day of the contest. ''I entered the amount and date of the check and signed it," he said, "but she said to leave the rest of it blank, she would , stamp the name on it." 
After McGrath gave her the check, the woman gave him a receipt. "I read the receipt, but when I looked up she was gone." 
he said. He and Barthel then called 
security and went looking for the 
woman. Though McGrath and 
Barthel did not find the woman, 
security did. 
Arther Pears, Director of Secur­
ity, continued the story, "About 20 
minutes after we received the call, 
we found the woman and escorted 
her off campus. The only violation 
she had committed was treaspass­
ing. This was because she was 
soliciting without a permit.'' Pears 
refused to divulge the identity of 
the woman, but he did say she was 
not a University student. 
"Every year," Pears said, "we 
have a few of these incidents, but 
they are infrequent. In this case, 
the young man cance11ed payment 
on the check so he did not lose the 
money.'' 
"Radio Free ND" plans discussion 
Tune intonight from 7-8 p.m. to 
hear Radio Free Notre Dame. The 
topic of discussion concerns the 
Urban Plunge and an opportunity 
to experience two days in the miner 
city during the Christmas break. 
The guest speakers will include Fr. 
Don McNeill and several students 
who have participated in. past 
Urban Plunge programs. 
Radio Free Notre Dame is. a 
newly established phone-in radio 
program sponsored by WSND 
a.m., 640 on your dial. For 
questions or comments please call 
6400. 
Observer seeks mailing manager 
The Observer is looking for a subscription manager to . oversee th~ ~ailing p~ocess of the paper. This Is a salaned position. 
Anyone "interested should con­tact Bob at 1715 or 8330. 
ages. These seats were those in Sections 109 and 110 located directly in front of the stage but in the bleacher section." 
Lacosta added that the group tried to be fair to everyone involved and made its decision accordingly. He emphasized the fact that those students who purchased the home­coming package paid the regular price for the bleacher seats ($7.00). 
Several students interviewed did not know of the lottery at Lr.For­tune for the concert tickets. Sophomore Mark Norman was one of the students who slept out at Stepan Center for the homecoming packages. "The problem seems to be one of communication. I did not know about the line at LaFortune for concert tickets and also never saw any signs stating which concert tickets would be included in the package.·· Junior Mark Stevens said, "I assumed that $7.00 tickets would be padded seats. At first I was disappointed, but I still plan on attending the concert." 
As a sign of their willingness to clear up any misunderstanding the Student Union has agreed to buy back bleacher seats from dissatis­fied students. The first 20 students who return their tickets to the Student Union ticket office between 1 and 4 p.m. tomorrow will receive a $14.00 refund. 
Lacosta asked any student who has an idea or suggestion as to how ticket distribution should be handled to contact him in the 
s~rve one term of three years, and six new members are elected each year.
According to John Cackley, Executive Director of the Alumni Association, the Alumni Board of Directors is "a liaison group between the University and the 

Heads Up, South Bend Stereo Buyers! 
There's a better way to buy hifi, coming soon! 
•If 
you've been waiting for the price of name brand stereo to come down, 

•If 
you've wanted to talk to someone who really understands your stereo needs and who knows where you're coming from, 

•If 
you've always wanted to look around for stereo, but were intimidated by high prices, "don't touch" signs, aloof salespeople and confusing technical talk, 


..........You've been waiting for Heineken Hifi!. 
Don't miss our tremendous Grand Opening, with 
prizes giveaway contests and the guaranteed lowest prices in town. Heineken Hifi is making hifi fun again! 
Watch For Our Grand Opening Celebration Coming Soon! 
Alumni Association." Its purpose is to inform the University about alumni opinions, thoughts and ideas. Furthermore, states Cackley, "It is the means by which the University informs the alumni of new and current programs at Notre Dame." 
Student Union offices at La.For­tune.





----OKTO_B_E-RF-EST--'77-1 
I ·-•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••-••••••••• II 
Mittwoch Sept. 28 Donnerstag Sept .. 29! 
-

8 pm Oktoberfest night at SENIOR BAR 
1 00 FREE Beers& specials 

Freitag Sept. 30 
11 am-1 pm Games outside SMC Dining Hall. 
3 pm-6 pm Happy Hour at the LIBRARY so~ drinks 
9 pm-1 BIERGARTEN & Dance with SAHARA -Regina! Hall 
Groucho Marx look-alike , contest 
Raffle for Stereo-
I 
4:30-6:15 pm German Dinner• Band & Skits -SMC Dining Hall 
6:30pm Hall Decorating . Contest Judging 
8:00 pm GIL EAGLES (nationally renowned psychic & hypnotist) 
Angela Athletic , Facility $1.00 



Sam stag Oct. 1 
11 am-1 pm PRE-GAME PARTY . at Camous View 'Club House 
T-Shirts-Balloons 
Sponsored by DMC Social Commission 
------------------------------------------------------------~ 


the observer Wednesday, September 28, 1977 



Jara makes proposal to defray shuttle costs 
Mike Keaaban 
Staff Reporter 
The posstble use' of the airport limousine service to help defray shuttle bus costs was announced yesterday by Harold Jara, Notre Dame's co-exchange commis­liioner. Jara also announced that there would be an increase in north-south co-ex dinner tickets and some changes in the distribu­tion of all co-ex tickets. .. 
The proposal for the limousine service came out of a meeting Jara had Monday with Bro. Just Pac­zesny, Vice-Pres. of Student Affairs and Thomas J. Mason, Vice-Pres. of Business Affairs. The meeting was called in response to the financial failure of the ND­SMC shuttle bus. 
Jara announced that the co-ex commission's proposal of running their own bus service for use at nights and weekends, to help eliminate the shuttle's financial dilemma, was turned down because Just and Mason consi­dered it to be not feasible. Jara stated that the plan was, "to purchase outright two buses of our own and use them instead of the Transpo Bus Service because the prices are getting too high and we might not be able to pay it." 

Jara agreed with the final deci­sion but stated, ''we did come out of the meeting with something." That "something" is the idea of renting the airport limousine ser­vice on Sundays, exclusively in <1rder to cut shuttle bus costs. 
According to a Transpo survey, no more than 24 people get on the bus at any one time on Sundays. An airport limousine seats 25. Jara 
USSR agrees to limiting underground nuclear arms 
UNITED NATIONS* N.Y. (AP)­The Soviet Union, in a surprise move, offered yesterday to join with the United States and Britain in a suspension of all underground nuclear weapons tests for an unspecified period. 
"The prohibition of all nuclear weapon tests would be a major step conducive to lessening the threat of nuclear war and deepen­ing detente," Soviet Foreign Minister Andrei A. Gromvko told the U.N. General Assembly. 
Negotiations on a compre­hensive test ban agreement, including explosions for such peaceful purposes as river diversions, are scheduled for Geneva next week. 
U.S. officials were not notified in advance of the Soviet gesture. To them it appeared to represent serious intent to complete a weapons test ban. 
Beyond that, the Russians did not condition their offer to reach an agreement on compliance by China and France, the two other major nuclear powers. In the past Moscow has said a testing agreement must have global application in order to be meaningful. 
Even while taking this concilia­tory approach Gromyko sharply criticized the Carter admini­stration on several fronts. 
He suggested with evident sarcasm that "those who clamor for 'human rights' could be::;t apply their efforts" in southern Africa. 
"But for some reason or other," Gromyko said, "they shut their f'yes to the intolerable plight of millions of people." 
And, in another gibe at President Carter, who has -:harged the Soviet Union with violating elemental human rights, Gromyko declared. 

Students needed to be volunteers 
Volunteer opportunities avail­able to ND-SMC students are listed below. Those interested should contact the Volunteer Services office at 7308. -Tutor needed for an eight and a half year old boy on a one-to-one basis. 
• 
One or two men needed to be cub scout leaders. The work involves conducting two meetings per month. 

• 
Two women needed to babysit ten children on Oct. 11, Nov. 8, and Dec. 6 from 9:15 to 11:15 a.m. 


In addition, the library of St. Patrick's parish needs volunteers to catalog books and aid in library work. Any interested persons should call Sr. Miriam Lorette at 287-7332. 
Volunteers are also needed at South Bend's Convalescent Center to work with retarded adults, to transport persons to Logan, and to lead a Boy Scout Troop. For more information contact Mary Salfieder at l82-1294. 

''Any attempts at sermomzmg us or, still worse, at interfering in our internal affairs under con­trived pretexts, have encoun­tered and will encourage a reso­lutl'! reburr." 
Gromyko also took issue with the Carter administration in the arms field. Noting the President's proposal earlier in the year to the Russians to make deep cuts in existin~ U.S. and Soviet weapons stockpiles, he asked: 
"Can one really propose with one hand various ·'drastic re­ductions' while with the other authorize the development of new and, bluntly speaking, mer­ciless types of weapons such as the neutron bomb?" 
Gromyko derided the sug­gestion that the bomb, which Carter has authorized, is some­ho-.v more human than other nuclear weapons because it would not, over a large area, level buildings and cause other physical havoc. 
''After all, "Gromyko said, "it is intended to be used directly against human beings and is in the same category with such cruel and barbaric means of warfare as bacteriological or chemical weapons.'' 
He said the United Nations should demand a halt in the production of the neutron bomb and other systems of mass destruction. 
Gromyko's speech marked his 20th anniversary as Soviet foreign minister addressing the opening debate of the U.N. General Assembly. A number of delegates shook his hand at the conclusion of the 90-minute address. 
stated that, ''this would be a lot cheaper and easier. Transpo themselves suggested that we look into that possibility." 
J ara admitted however that, ''there has been no research done on it yet because we just heard about it. Rut we're going to start looking into it this week." 
Jara estimated that the limou­sine proposal would save the university between six and ten thousand dollars per year. He claims that right now the shuttle service on nights and weekends costs about $25,000 per year. 
Money is the main problem. The university has given the students a 90 day trial period in which the fate of the shuttle will be decided. Jara agrees that the major solution to the problem, "is to get the stu­dents to pay their fares." 
Mary Ann Fuchs, St. Mary's co-ex commissioner, has begun such a campaign. "The bus drivers have specifically been told that starting this week they cannot let students on unless they have their 15 cents," Fuchs announced. She admitted that, "before, the bus drivers were pretty lax about it." 
Jara maintained that, "hope­fully, if we can get everybody to pay the fare and if we can work on something else for Sunday service, we'll be able to cut down enough to 

Computer lectures open to public 
The world of microprocessors and minicomputers is being ex­plored during a 12-week lecture laboratory course open to the public at Notre Dame. Sponsored by the Department of Electrical Engineering, the weekly classes run from 7 to 9:30 p.m. each Monday in the Center for Contin­uing Education. 
The purpose of the course is to explore the art and understanding of microprocessors and minicom­puters, the principles governing the hardware and software, and the way it is integrated as a total system design. 
Dr. John J. Uhran, Jr., associate professor of electrical engineering, will supervise the course. An authority on lock loop communi­cation receivers, he serves as an editor of the IEEE Transactions on Communications, responsible for communication theory. 
Engineers, managers and others utilizing or planning to use micro­
. processors and minicomputers may enroll in the course and receive a certificate of completion at the conclusion. Additional information is available by calling the Center for Continuing Education. 

Starring: Orson Welles, Jeanne Moreau, John Gielgud 

Place: Engineering Aud. 
Time: 9:15 Wed Evening Sept. 28 admission free 
get back to the budget that we receive. Jara explained that by 2 anticipated." p.m. all the tickets are usually gone 
Concerning co-ex tickets, Jara and that those students who want announced that he was able to or need them are out of luck. secure 10 more north-south co-ex To correct this abuse Jara dinner tickets for use by students. announced that beginning Oct. 3, This came about after a meeting both north-south and St. Mary's with Edmund T. Price, Director of · co-ex tickets will only be distribu­Food Services. This means that 60 ted on the day that they are valid. co-ex tickets will now be available Jara also stated that he would each day for dinner exchange. The continue the procedure of limiting new addition goes into effect each person to two tickets. immediately. "Hopefully then we will be able to 
Jara said however, that Price control the misuse," Jara said, was "reluctant" to concede the "but it's hard." extra tickets because of the misuse Concerning co-exchange in gene­of the system by students. Jara raJ, both Jara and Fuchs encour­stated that, "according to a Food age organized groups, such as hall Service survey, the most co-ex presidents or resident assistants to dinner tickets collected in any one take part in group dinner exchan­day were 35. The survey ran up to ges. The co-ex commissioners Sept. 20. advise groups to give at least a two 
Jara and Price agree that the week advance notice. Fuchs espe­problem is that students are taking cially sees this as a helpful device too many tickets and/or are not in "improving relations between using the tickets that they do ND and SMC." 


Sir Victor's Discount Liquor 

413 Hickory Rd. S. Bend 
Beer Specials 


QUARTS: BUSCH 5.99 case STROH'S 6.35 case 
CANS: SCHLITZ 16 oz 6.85 case STROH'S 12oz 5.60 case 

Lowest Beer Prices in Town! 
Special Uquor Discounts to NO -SMC students Call ahead for quantity orders -288-9731 
notre dame student union & sunshine promotions 
presents 

intraducing 
The Norton Buffalo Stampede FRIDAY, OCTOBER 21 8:00PM Notre Dame ACC 
Tickets: $8.00, $7.00 All Seats Reserved on sale now at the ACC box office & the student union box office 



Wednesday, September 28, 19n 
the observer 

Concerned students meet 
Discussion centers on prevention of attacks 
by Stephen Needles 
The Students for Campus Secur­ity, a group concerned with the safety of the female students of the Notre Dame-St. Mary's commun­ity, held an open meeting last night in the Law School lounge. Organi­zers Debbie Griffith and Paula Fulks stressed the need for a group of this type in light of the recent attacks in and around campus. They also emphasized the concern of the school administrators and their willingness to help in any way possible. 
Last night's meeting was divided into two parts, representing the two goals of the Students for Campus Security: 1. Education ­What kind of attacks exist, and when and where they are most likely to occur. Also, what to do during and after an attack, 2. Prevention -What can be done in the future to avert these situations. 
Leading off the first half of the meeting was Joseph Molnar of the St. Joseph County Police. Molnar advised women students not to subject themselves to dangerous areas or situations and to travel in groups whenever possible. If attacked, Molnar suggested using emergency phones strategic locations would help this situation.

Mardi Gras plans begun, 
The biggest problem she saw, however, was in the lighting of the
'Expo ND' to be '77 theme campus at night. "Believe it or 
by Mark Perry Staff Reporter 
"Expo ND" will be the theme for this year's Mardi Gras, as plans are already being made to transform Stepan Center into a World's Fair for the celebration to be held from Feb. 3 to 11. 
Dan Haugh, Mardi Gras chair­man, said that a committee has already been organized, and that most of the halls were represented at a recent committee meeting. Haugh said he would like to get all the halls to have booths at Mardi Gras in addition to the clubs who would also be represented. 
"This year we are trying to make Mardi Gras more of a social event, rather than a money-making mach­ine," Haugh said, "so we will be trying to increase publicity to make students more aware of what is happening each night." Haugh also noted that because of the early date more students should be able to attend because testing will not have started by then. 
"Booths will be built around the 
theme of 'Expo ND' ", Haugh 
stated, "to make Stepan Center 
resemble the World's Fair in New 
York." Three villages will make up 
the fair: the international village, 
with booths from different "coun­
tries," the corporate village, 
where different "companies" will 
be represented, and the carnival 
village, where booths will be made 
to look like rides. 
In keeping with the carnival type 
atmosphere, Haugh said that dif­
ferent games will he held in 


award about $4.400 with that policy. Because of this year's early date, "most of the preparations will have 




PARTY STORE
to be completed before the Christ­mas break," Haugh continued, "so the booth chairmen will be meeting about every two weeks to get everything planned in plenty of time." 
More emphasis will be placed on where the money is going to. "We will be trying to make the students more aware of what Notre Dame charities are and how their partici­pation will help in making Mardi Gras successful," Haugh said. . 
THE ND STUDENT UNION & THE BCAC PRESENT 
Keg Party Special Free cups and Ice 
I 
STARRING THE WIZ 

check our package liquor department
PROFESSIONALS­INC. DISCOTEQUE 

open 9 to midnight Mon.-Sat. 684_
OCT. 1 
4950
10:30 to 2:00am 

open 12-12 SUN. · . · 
IN THE NAZZ 
50 CENT-COVER 

• Package Liquor to go!
CHARGE 

~::-r~r-,··r:·~~~~~~~~~·"-,~~~~,-~-~--~~~r;7...~~~ blqJk Easl of. U_s_ 3~·"' ~-",
-'1 Jllfi,WI'III • . ,,~ ...,,,__,_•.._., • .­

and common sense will help to alleviate the problem," she stated. 
The final speaker of the night was James Roemer, Dean of Stu­dents. Dean Roemer expressed his approval at finding members of the Security staff at the meeting. While keeping the actu~l numbers classified, he maintained that Se­curity is at its greatest force between the hours of 9 p.m. to 7 
a.m. and that it makes regular patrols of the inner campus as well as the outer perimeter and the townhouses. In his last three years as dean, said Roemer, "there have been only three rapes, one on­
campus and two off, plus 8 _assault two weeks regarding this proposal. 
~~~'~ 
/~:~ " ' w., !'' ,.----, ,·,.-.__ ~ ' 
J ~ € A:)ND4Nf) ,-~\4r NER A L s ?"' ' ~SNU
b -JQ~ .-~~~
0 ~ Monroe St. So ~'l -: 
~ · Papers · O>e · '\. '\. Pipes and Acces' s "'ct. Waterbeds & Acces's 
-)_{ . ~~ ~~--('"". 
..P 

WED 9~11 PM JAZZ IN THE NAZZ THE 3 O'CLOCK ND JAZZ COMBO THURS 9-11 PM DOUG STRINGER 
FRI .9-11:30 JOHN PIETZAK ED BYRNES with a special appearance 




OAK DAIRY 
and battery cases. Contrary to popular belief," continued Roem­er, ''all instances of this sort are reported to the Observer. There are no hush-ups!" 
The meeting conluded with the presentation to Dean Roemer of a five-point proposal for increased security of the Notre Dame Cam­pus. This consisted of suggested modifications in education, light­ing, communications, transporta­tion, and security personnel. When asked to give an official comment, Roemer said, "We will give an open letter to the Notre Dame community within the next every available means of defense: legs, feet, arms, fists, teeth, and, more importantly, voice.' Molnar said he does not advocate the use of guns, knives, mace, or other wea­pons unless one is proficient in their use, citing these methods can easily backfire. 
After an attack, Molnar empha­sized first getting medical treat­ment if injured. Then, he said, it is important to confide in someone whom you respect. Finally, he stressed the importance of relating all the facts to the police. 
The second speaker was Mara Newman of the Sex Offense Service (SOS), a 24-hour-a-day, 7-day-a ­week hotline, set up for victims of sexual assault. "If requested, we will arrange to meet with a victim to see if she is injured and to advise her on what will happen in the future," said Newman. "A woman in this situation loses all sense of security and it is important that we provide not only immediate, but long-range comforting." Newman went on to say that the SOS will usually be recommended to the victim by the police or hospital personnel. 
The prevention half of the meet­
ing began with Sister John Miriam Jones, associate provost, who outlined what measures have been taken in the last five years to improve the safety situation at Notre Dame. "When undergra­duate women were first admitted to Notre Dame, the first step was to install Detex systems in the wo­men's dorms. Although these are frequently abused, they are a sufficient deterrent to an intruder nevertheless," said Sr. John. She further stated that individual wo­men security guards have been added in each hall. Other mea­sures include teaming a men's dorm with a women's dorm in a sort of ''big brother'' system, a Security escort service, a general security orientation for female stu­
dents,  and  individual  dorm ses­ 
sions.  
Sr.  John  then  proceeded  to  

evaluate the first five years of Notre Dame's co-educational sta­tas. "Women security guards have provided a sense of well-being among the female students," she­said. "The escort system, though, has been marred by delays and unattainable areas, particularly on the west side of campus." She suggested that the installation of 
in 
addition to the gambling that is always featured at Mardi Gras. Halls will be asked to add games like the ones at small carnivals, such as bursting balloons with darts or knocking down milk bottles with a baseball. 
In addition to the games, enter­tainment will also be featured, and Haugh added that they will try to get more campus talent involved along with the professional groups that will be performing. 
More emphasis will be placed on the car raffle this year, in an attempt to make it the highlight of the Mardi Gras celebration and the main souree of money for the Notre Dame Charities, who will receive all the proceeds from this event. The grand prize will be a Cutlass Supreme, while a Ford Pinto will be raffled off to one of the students who sells a book of tickets. This replaces last years $2 rebate for those students who sold full books of tickets, as the committee had to not," she said, "a lot has been done in this area in the past five years. In fact, 40 to 50 light standards have been added in this period." This, she admitted, is still not adequate and she said an effort is being made to improve and maintain the present lighting sys­tem. "A lighting survey was recently undertaken," said Sr. John. "But the company which was hired to give an estimate presented a proposal of $1 million which was totally unacceptable." 
Sr. John's suggestions are part of a co-ed report which goes before the board of trustees next week. She concluded her presentation by further emphasizing the impor­tance of women travelling in com­pany and only well-lit 
..~.e~ 

. At one time or another, each of us has been intellectually out of his depth. Everyone of us can remember the time when we poured over and over our calculus or philosophy or physics, knowing that the key to understanding was just beyond our grasp--but still unable to grasp it. But perhaps there was a classmate or a professor or a tutor who sat down with us, who explained and encouraged and helped us to make the breakthrough to under­standing. Or, if there wasn't, we were left with an awful sense of frustration 'and inadequacy. 
One block away from Notre Dame, there are people who struggle every day for a better understanding of their world and themselves. They will probably never be ready for calculus or philosophy or physics, but their attempts to grasp the knowledge of which they are capable are every bit as frustrating and as deserving of encourage­ment. 
But recently the State Budget Commit­tee of Indiana voted three to two to cut $10 million from the budget allocation for the mentally handicapped. This decision will force facilities like the Logan Center and the Northern Indiana Children's Hospital to discontinue or cut back many of the programs and teaching aids that have been helping the mentally handicapped to achieve their potential. It will reduce further the number of children and adults who can be accepted into these programs. Many of those rejected will probably regress and require institutionalization. In St. Joseph County alone, such facilities will lose $750,000 or nearly half their funds. 
-{)ne Block Away 
The supreme irony of the Budget Committee's decision is that the funds saved by depriving the mentally handi­capped of Indiana will only add to an existing budget surplus. The motive for the decision is obviously political, rather than economic, but the idea of ''fiscal conservativism" carries a great deal of weight with many Indiana voters. 
Yesterday officials from Notre Dame and St. Mary's Student Governments and 'the' ND-SMC Council for the Retarded an­nounced plans to protest the Budget Committee's decision through an intensive letter-writing campaign and lobbying ef­forts. The success of these measures depends ultimately on dedicated support ­from the students, faculty, staff and administration of Notre Dame and St. Mary's. 
Nearly 200 Notre Dame and St. Mary's students sacrifice hours of their time each week helping and encouraging Logan Center clients to find the key to under­standing. They are combatting the same feelings of frustration and inadequacy that inflict all of us when we know we are not performing up to our potential. As members of a caring community dedicated to the search for knowledge and under­standing, we must support wholeheartedly the rights of our fellow-searchers, -whose quest is impeded by so many more obstacles of intellect and politics. 
The action of the State Budget Commit­tee in cutting these much-needed and still inadequate funds causes us to wonder just who is deficient in understanding. 
opinion~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Another Chance 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiigary Iu c hini 
I wish to make a new proposal concerning the Student Life Council (SLC). This proposal is different because it is being presented to the students as well as to the Board of Trustees, so that the major constituency of the Notre Dame Community can make the choice along with the Trustees. My proposal: give the SLC one more chance. To the Trustees this means holding off on any action for the proposed restructuring of the SLC until their Spring '78 meeting, so that they can see what an effective SLC can accomplish. To the students this means not writing off the SLC as worthless before it can prove otherwise. 
The basic problem with the SLC has not been its structure, but the use of the structure. There has been a lack of aggressive leader­ship, and interest. This year the SLC will have that leadership, and new interest has already been generated by the Judicial System changes that the SLC will consider. The SLC for 1977-78 consist.5 of five students: Peter Haley, South Quad, Terry Finne~an, Off-Campus, Gary Luchim, North Quad, Tracy Kee 

H.P.C. Representative, and Dave Bender, SBP; five Faculty members: Sarah Daugherty, Sop}lie Korczyk, Rev. James Shilts, Pual Rathburn, and Albert Lemay; and five members of the Administration: Brother Just Paczesny, James Roemer, Sr. Jane Pitz, Sr.Vivian Whitehead, and Dr. William Burke. 
Two-thirds of these people are new to the SLC and have faith in its potential. The rest of these members are from last year's council, and are back because they too believe that there exist great possibilities for the SLC. Now it is up to the students themselves to believe this. When students were involved with the council, working on its commit -tees, researchingand drafting its proposals, and supporting the acti_ons taken by the council, many things were accomplished. Crossroads Park is the result of SLC committee work. As a consequence of SLC work a sound system and TV were installed in La Fortune Student Center. The SLC was involved in the remodel­ing of La Fortune Student Center. a few years ago, as well sup­porting the pending remodeling work for the Student Center. The SLC arranged for movies to be shown in the La Fortune Ballroom with free refreshments, as well as having food available at the Nazz(anything from bagels to submarines). And· the SLC was responsible for extending parietal hours to eleven o'clock in the morning. 
Things can be accomplished within the present structure of the SLC; it does not need to be revamped. What it does need is a good dose of student, faculty, and administrative support. If you are interested in improving Notre Dame, please call an SLC representative and let him/her know that you want to help, and that you support the Student Life Council. 

. • '· • l 1t. I-, ~.. 
. -.----.-. 
~"" ~ 


~The Observer 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary'o, 
The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College It does not necessarily reflect the policies of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opin1on of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries. opinions and letters are the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and letters are encouraged to P";>mot~ the free' expression of varying 1opu'uons on campus. 
EDITORIAL BOARD 
Marti Hogan Editor-in-Chief Martha Fanning Managing Editor Bob Brink Asst. Managing Ed. Kathy Mills Executive Editor Maureen Flynn Editorial Editor Barb Breitenstein Exec. News Editor jean Powlev St. Mary"s Editor Katie Kerwin News Editor Barb Langhenry News Editor Paul Stevemon Sports Editor Pat Cole Special Projects Ed. David O'Keefe Features Editor 
Wednesday, September 28, 1977 


P.O. BOXQ 
---~-~ 
Crying wolf! 
Dear Edftor: 

Don't Cry Rape! On the evening of Sept. 19, we were interrupted by repeated female screams coming from the vicinity of St. Joe's Lake. Pleadingly, the girl yelled, "Some­one help me! I'm being attacked!" 
A concerned Lewis resident 
responding to the cries asked what 
was going on. A male voice then 
responded that he was raping the 
s--t out of her! As a result of 
numerous concerned calls, N.D. 
Security arrived promptly. Where­
upon discovering it was no more 
than a guy throwing a girl into the 
lake. 

Although the incident was no 
more than a childish prank, 
considering the recent attacks of 
female students on this campus the 
circumstances made it appear to be 
a real incident of rape. Situations 
like this make people callous in 
responding to cries for help! It is 
hard enough to discern what could 
be ·a birthday ritual or a true attack. 
This is another tale of "cry wolf." 
As N.D. women, we are alarmed 
enough about our safety on this 
campus; we do not need extra 
anxiety created by those who do not 
take such a frightening and cruel 
experience as rape seriously. 

Concerned Lewis Hall Residents 
And the band played on 
Dear Editor: 

One brisk evening last week returned to campus about nine o'clock, parked my car in D-2, and started across the parking lot. I became aware of drums beating rhythmically, and brass horns blar­ing the melody of a popular show tune. Over in Green Field I saw five or six people holding flares in the darkness, and the silhoutte of the Notre Dame Band marching in formation back and forth across the field. I could hear the instructions of the director being shouted through a megaphone. I was shocked that the band was practic­ing so late. After watching a few minutes l decided it was too cold, dark, and late for anyone to be out and continued my walk to my 
r~.••:l:~e ~~d ~~d j~t finis~e~ the1r lu-t·snng and 1coUld" heat the 
beating of the drums as they began 
a military step towards campus. 
Together in perfect order they 
marched and chanted loudly "Go 
Irish, Beat Pitt". 

As they approached the Law 
School the band members yelled 
and cheered, beginning a much 
faster hike step. A whistle blew, a 
loud 1-2-3-4 command was called, 
and the band broke out into the 
Victory March as they crossed the 
South Quad. My heart began to 
beat faster. I wondered how many 
million times they play that song in 
one year. 

The Notre Dame Marching Band 
looked fabulous on national T.V. at 
the Pittsburgh game, something 
Notre Dame should really be proud 
to show off. I don't think we realize 
how much time, effort and practice 
goes into every game and half-time 
performance they put on. Congra­
tulations ND band! Hats off to you 
as you continue "to march on to 
victory!" 

Molly Murtagh 
The mariner and the innkeeper 
Dear Editor: 

In response to the question posed at the end of Mary Pat Tarpey's letter (Thursday, Sept. 15), a letter which the editorial board seems not to have read considering Friday's editorial, yes, there is a way to fight back effectively at Notre Dame. 
That is, act like the ancient mariner: Grab ahold of people, especially high school juniors and seniors, and fill their minds with the vintage horrors which make up the true story behind football, beer and Christian living at Notre Dame, leaving them sadder and wiser and applying and donating money to other universities. The result: Just like any pretentious third-rate hotel you warn your friends about, so too will Notre Dame (a hotel itself, as Burchaell once implied) be short on guests--and what would Notre Dame be without a full student body to cheer its football team onto victory? 
That is, either the University must change its ways to attract more guests and maybe even students or even members of the community, or go 'bankrupt and .sink, becoming Notre Dame dans le Lac. 
Name withheld by tequest The absence of warning signals at the railroad crossing near the entrance to St. Mary's necessitates caution in crossing. [Photo bv Debbie Krilich 1. 


Hidden train tracks present danger 'at crossroads 
by MoUy Woulfe 

Students should exercise caution when crossing the railroad tracks extending across the main road to St. Mary's campus. The ConRail trains use the tracks from 5 to 6 
p.m. 
to transport boxcars from Niles businesses, and from 7 to 8 

p.m. 
for the return trip. 


Students were concerned about the crossing's lack of warning signals. "Cars driving at night really can't see trains coming because of the blind spots caused by the bushes," commented Ro­berta DePiero, freshman. 
When asked why there were only signs--no red lights or bells to warn students of approaching night trains, Jason Lindower, SMC con­troller, replied, "They (the railroad company) tell us they don't have to put up anything. Our attorneys checked into the matter and verifi­
without charge. 
The recital will feature the world premiere of the "Ukranian Ithap­sody," a contemporary piece by 
AmericancomposerDonaldFreundwhich dramatizes two tensions familiar to today's musician, the confrontation between man and machine,andthedialoguebetweenfolk and art music. Scored for solo 
violin and pre-recorded tape, the piece represents both the centuries old tradition of live music and the recent tendency toward technologi­cal media. 
Works by 20th century compos­ers of Ukranian origin will be performed during the remainder of the program. These include Kos­enko's "Sonata, Op 18," Skoryk's 
"Sonata No. 1," "Melodie" by
Verykovsky and "Cappriccio alia Danza" by Groudine. 
ed this. We have installed a light there, for the purpose of illuninat­ing the evening for rainy and foggy days." 
The use of signal flares to alert drivers and pedestrians has only been in effect since July, when a faculty member's car stalled on the tracks. The train was unable to stop and struck the rear of the car, sending it spinning into the field. No one was injured. 
Lindower stressed that students should wait for trains to pass or back up before crossing the tracks. "It's extremely dangerous for stu­dents to crawl over, under; or through railroad cars," he stated. ''And under no circumstances should anyone-especially in a car­try to beat a train. To my knowledge, there haven't been any 
· accidents with everyone behaving 
in  a  sensible  manner.  We  
encourage all to  exercise  a  little  
patience."  

Violin concert features modern Ukranian music 
Violinist Adrian Bryttan of the sity Orchestra, violinist in the Notre l)anie faculty will give a faculty piano trio, and concertmas­recital of 20th century Ukranian ter of the South Bend Symphony.music tonight at 8:15 p.m. in the He will be assisted l:iy Nadia 
Library auditorium. The program Sawyn, pianist, at tonight's con­is part of the concert series cert. sponsored by the Music Depart­
Wednesday, September 28, 1977 the observer 7 
New an·d traditional events open St. Mary's Octoberfest '77 
by Anne Bachle 

Oktoberfest '77,, which gets un­derway today, will feature some new events "to provide something different for everyone," prorilises Oktoberfest Chairperson Kathy Friday. 
One innovation is the raffle for a Pioneer stereo valued at over $500. The component system includes a turntable, SX-450 receiver with AM-FM stereo, and two Project 60 thre~e-way speakers. Raffle tickets cost SO cents each,. and can be purchased at the dining halls any night this week. 
Psychic Gil Eagles will appear tomorrow night at St. Mary's new Angela Athletic Facility. Eagles has entertained audiences through­out the world with his ability to read minds and predict events. Tickets, which cost $1, will also be sold in the dining halls all week, and at the door Thursday night. 
Seniors can get a headstart celebrating Oktoberfest this year with special low prices on all beer at Senior Bar tonight. The first 100 students entering after 8 p.m. will receive free beers. Twenty tickets for the Gil Eagles performance Thprsday night will be distributed randomly during the evening. 
Traditional events fill the rest of the Oktoberfest schedule. Balloons 
students during lunch tomorrow, while dinner will feature a German menu, polka band, and skits. Gil Eagles' performance at 8 p.m. will finish off the day. 
Friday starts off with games for everyone outside the St. Mary's dining hall from 11 a.m. until 1 
p.m. Happy Hour at the Library will run from 3 till 6 p.m., featuring a beer-chugging contest and a 
Dr. Gordon Mli/1 receive award 
Dr. Robert E. Gordon, vice president for advanced studies, has been chosen as the Outstanding Alumnus of the Graduate School for 1977 by the Tulane University Alumni Association. 
Gordon received a Ph.D. in zoology and ecology in 1956 from Tulane, where he was a Carnegie Fellow. He joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1958, serving as chair­man of the Department of Biology from 1965-67 and as associate dean 
until he was named vice president in 1971. 
Long interested in communica­tion of scientific · information, Gordon received the Council of -Biology Editors Medal for Excel­lence in Scientific Communication in 1972. He is coauthor of two books published in 1970, Informa­tion Handling in the Life Sciences and A Workbook for Journal Editors. He also has edited several scientific publications, including the American Midland Naturalist, based at Notre Dame. 
Awards will be presented at the Tulane Alumni Convocation in New Orleans Oct. 15. 
ment and is opl!n to the public.----------------------------, 
In his second year as as!astant: 1 professor of music at Notre Dame, student I.D. carcf. 
~-6..~ SEE PRO BASKETBALL C.A~ 
~ · 'l, 
CLEVELAND CAVALIERS VS BUFFALO BRAVES 
(Pre-Season Game) Tomorrow Night 
G' 

NOTRE DAME A.C.C.
dl ~ 
~ '1}.. Tickets $4 . $5 . $6 
~ 
'..1, Sale starts Monday Sept. 5 
~ A.C.C. Gate 10 Box Office 

NO 6 SMC Students $1.00 off with 
"Gong Show." Anyone interested in performing should call Anne or Nanne at 4298. 
Friday night's Biergarten will open at 9 p.m. in Regina's North Lounge, while the rock band "Sa­hara" plays in the South Lounge. Admission is $1 to the dance, or $2 for both the dance and Biergarten, provided you have a 21 ID. Anyone who comes to the Biergarten or dance dressed like Groucho Marx will get in free. 
Winners of the stereo raffle and the hall decorating contest will be announced at the dance. 
The dance and Biergarten end at 1 a.m., but students may start celebrating anew Saturday at 11 
a.m. at the pre-game party at the Campus View Clubhouse. The party, co-sponsored by the social commissions of Notre Dame and St. Mary's, along with St. Mary's senior class and LeMans Hall, will lead right into the Michigan State game, bringing Oktoberfest '77 to a close. 

Psychic to visit St. Mary's 
by Anne Bachle 

Gil Eagles, who claims he's America's foremost entertaining psychic and hypnotist, promises to baffle, stun, and amaze audiences with his performance at the Angela Athletic Facility tomorrow night on St. Mary's campus. 
Eagles uses ESP and hypnosis to reveal names, numbers, and the innermost thoughts of his audience in his "amazing-Kreskin" -type show. 
Popular ~n the college circuit, he has also appeared on TV, and made headlines in New York when he drove through a parking lot ob­stacle course blind-folded. 
A naturalized U.S. citizen, Eag­les grew up in what is now Tanzania, Africa, and speaks Swa­hili fluently. He realized at the age of thirteen that he had clairvoyant abilities, and has traveled to four continents in the past ten years, entertaining and amazing au­diences with his uncanny sixth sense. 
Tickets for the 8 p.m. show cost $1 and can be obtained at the dining halls on both campuses and also at the door. 

will be distributed to all St. Mary's •----------~"'""!!r------------
... 


to Where the Krunch Is I 
FISH I CHiPS LEMON LUV {dessert) SHRIMP 
DRINKS -PEPSI 
CHICKEN LEMONADE

KRUNCH PUP CHOWDER ICED TEA 

10°/o Discount 
~-.. 
with I.D. 
409 LWW 1733 N Ironwood Rd. Mishawaka South Bend 
of the College of Science from 1967 1!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!. 

under new management 
24 HOUR TOWING 
AND ROAD SERVICE 272-6961 
Welcome Back Notre Dame! MIKE'S MAPLE LANE AMOCO 
·----·-----~---~ 
-
272-3487 

QUALITY WORK C_I:~'!~~~~~_MECHANIC ATLAS PRODUCTS 
.INCLUDING T'RES AND BATTERIES OPEN TIIlll :00 p.m. CLOSEST TO CAMPUS 
FROM LINEBACKER INN 
· RT· 23 & EDISON RD. 
Bryttan is cond~ctor of the Univer-:L...,~~~t!.!!:!!!!!::::..:::!~:;~;;;~:::.~;;:.;':""'_~~_;~U~II!!!i!i~~-.~iiiiiiiiiii•• 
.UC!t ~ <.-0 ------·-~·~· 
.,BL__ __.t"'hueiL.lo.._..bllisllle~rv~eiU_r_______.!.w~e~d~n~e~sday, September 28, 1977 
SMC to vote on charity event 
by Caroline Moore 

St. Mary's students will vote today on the charity event that they will sponsor this year, according to Kathy O'Connell, vice president of 
·• student affairs. 

Among the charities to be voted on are three that specifically in­volve St. Mary's and Notre Dame students. These include: The Mission Orientation Program, which sends four students and four nuns to the New Mexico area for five to six weeks each summer to teach religion to the poor; the Brazil Mission Program in which ~tudents work for a one to two year period and help in the needy areas of Brazil; and the Glenmary Volun­teer Program, concerned with con­struction work in the Appalachians, either for three weeks in the summer or during Christmas vaca­tion. 
The major national charities, such as the American Cancer Society, are less emphasized as the number of choices had to be narrowed. "There are so many deserving charities that Y.e felt by sponsoring our own classmates we would know where the money was going and how it was being used,'' commented O'Connell. There will also be a few other charities for the students to choose from that are not as directly related to either of the two schools but still would be worthy causes. 

The idea to sponsor a charity on a school-wide basis was originated by the Board of Governance. The money will be raised by monthly fund raising projects. Some ideas for this include raffles, dances, and donut sales. The members of the Board of Governance have already earned the September contribution by working in the bookstore during registration for four days. The $250 they earned will be the first contribution to the charity fund. O'Connell urged all students to vote at dinner today. 
O'Neill sees end of impasse on abortion 
WASHINGTON [API -House Speaker Thomas P. O'Neill predic­ted yesterday that the House Senate impasse over abortion soom will be broken, although he doubts the House will accept the Senate's more liberal approach to govern­ment financing of abortions. 
The House was scheduled to vote 
1atcr yesterday on the Senate's language, which would allow use of taxpayers' funds for abortions for poor women in cases of rape or incest. or when their doctors certify the operation is "medically neces sary." 
The House voted previously to allow the federal government to pay for abortions only when the woman's life was in danger. The Senate twice has rejected that position. . 
House-Senate conferees have failed to reach a compromise for three months. and the stalemate 
Vegetarian line available at both dining halls 
by Janice McCmmack 

As of last year a vegetarian line was installed at one of the dining hall services due to the efforts of both student body and Hunger Coalition. This additional food service is available in both north and south dining halls throughout both semesters. 
The vegetarian meal does not consist merely of vegetables. Included in the menu are all types of eggs, cheeses and fish. This meal is offered at either lunch or dinner. Unless two meat entrees are scheduled for a certain meal the vegetarian meal is not designated .>n the menu. 
Requests for various vegetarian l'ntrees are made possible through the feedback box. Here students' 
•riews and ideas are forwarded to Mrs. Phyllis Roose, dining hall dietitian, who prepares the meal according to nutritional value. 
Roose said that although the vegetarian line has been successful encouragement is still helpful. The u~e of this feedback box for suggestions is encouraged by the coalition. One of their main objectives is to increase support by <cdded publicity. Their final hope is to publicize the meals every Friday. 
The main objective of the Hun­ger Coalition, one of the primary promoters, is to arouse an aware­ness of world hunger in the student bl)dy. According to Barb Ward of the coalition, various means such as collecting money outside the dining halls and the Wednesday 
-
night fast are just a few of the ways in which funds are raised. 
Once these funds are accumulat­ed they are forwarded to different organi?ations, all of which are researched thorOUj?~tly. One such organization is ·B1 cad for the World." Orr·.nizations of these type make J; .nericans more aware of tlte enormous amount of meat and dairy products consumed each year. In return they sponsor 
has threatened to tie up a $60.2 
billion social legislation package. 
It would take a two-thirds major­
ity vote for the House to accept the 
Senate language,.;md O'Neill said 
he did not think the votes were 
there. 
B!1t O'Neill told reporters that Senate leaders were confident that even if the language were defeated the abortion question could be resolved within 48 hours. 
The dispute over abortion fund­ing has tied up final passage of a $60.2 billion appropriations bill for the departments of Labor and Health, Education and Welfare, (HEW). The current funding for those a~nciesand others covered by the bill expires on Friday. 
O'Neill scheduled the vote on the Senate language over the vehe­
merit opposition of Rep. Daniel Flood, (D-Ps.), chairman of the Labor-HEW appropriations sub­committee and a staunch foe of 
abortion. Rep. Louis Stokes (D-Ohio), said 
·------------­

he was offeringt.~he resolution after most other ·House conferees "wouldn't touch it with a ten-foot pole." 
The Senate conferees walked out of the last session with their House counterparts after the House mem­
bers declined to ask their chamber to vote on the Senate lang~age. The senators refused to meet with the House members again unless there was a vote. 
The government paid for 300,000 abortions last year at a cost of $50 million. About one-third of the abortions were for teenagers. Most 
we~c paid for under Medicaid, the health care program for the needy that is administered by the states but largely funded by the federal government. 
The government had been pay­ing for elective abortions for poor 
women. But in June the Supreme Court ruled that public funds need not be used to finance abortions, and on Aug. 4 HEW stopped 
paying for abortions except when a woman's life was endangered. 
+. 

_The Knights Men's Hairstyling 
Treat yourself the month of Sept. with a styled haircut and blowstyle combination, and receive a free condition! It will give you back that natural sheen that the Summer months have deprived ·you of. This is a $13.00 value for $8.50. 


Miss Sharon Branch Manager 
r~-~~~ auttn's (astlt 

' S4533Terrace Lane 277_1691 Tues. and Wed-10:30 am-6:30 Thurs. and Fri. -8:30 am -8:30 Sat. -8:30 am-s:00 pm 
Closed Mon~ay 

100 CENTER SPECIAL 
SHULLTE BUS FROM NOTRE DAME 
LIBRARY TO 100 CENTER 
Mondays thru Fridays. Depart N D at 5:15 Return approx. 9:30 (after 1st show at the Flix) 
D I N E AT T H E •I( E H Q U S E 
~t free pass to Boiler House Flix . Shopping and Dining 'fun 100 Center Mishawaka STARTING SEPT. 29 ~......~....-----------------------~J 

-~------~-----­

WHEN DO MUSIC MAJORS SAY BUDWEISER®I 
.. . 500N A5 I FINISH THIS FUSVE, I'M GONNA GET ON CONN 10 Rcs:..oE.'S FOR SOME HOT BUJE.S 
AND COL.O BUD!(II) 
-----------------·--­
KING OF BEERS~•

pr9_g•a.ms •of meatless eating on . 
'lV1'i'>'it.lay(, · "W'€mif=(tl~f("'atltf•'"PH-"' ···.-·" ANHEUSER·llUSCH\ '~<i; 
.... •• .,,...!r..[dtfr~"'"' ,..,.. 
days 

Wednesday, September 28, 1977 
the observer 

Pla~ement Bureau sign-up begins 
The sign-up period for the first week of Placement Bureau Job interviews is from 1 to 4:30 p.m., Monday through Thursday. In all subsequent weeks, the sign-up period will be 8:00a.m. to 5 p.m. 
Interviews are open to seniors and graduate students in the December, May and August classes. Any who intend to have interviews must have a completed profile (registration) form on ftle at the 
Oct. 3 Mon. 
Oct 3/4 
Mon/Tues. 
Oct. 4 Tues. 
Oct. 4 
Tues. 
Oct. 4/5 Tues./Wed. 
Oct. 5 
Wed. 
Oct. 6 
~hurs. 
Oct. 6/7 lfhurs./Fri. 
Oct. 7 
Fri. 
Law Schools: 
ALBA EG SC LW MBA 
X X 
X X X X X 
X X X X 
X X 

X X 
X X 

X X X X X 
X X X X X 
X 
X X 
X X 
X 
X 
X 
X 

X X 
X X 
X 
X 

X X X 
All interested students are requestet;l to sign-up at the Pre-Law Society Bulletin Boards in O'Shaugh­f.llessv Hall. 
Placement Bureau. Registration, interview sign-rip sheets and employer literature are in Rm. 213 Main Building. The Placement Bureau is open from 8 
a.m. to 5 p.m., Monday through Friday. consult the Placement Manual for additional information re­garding interview and Placement Bureau services and procedures. 
You must sign up for your interviews personally. 
Crowe, Chizek and Company B in Acct. MBA with Acct./Business Law back ground or concentration. 
Electronic Data Corporation BM in all disciplines 
Indiana University, Graduate School of Business B in all disciplines. 
Prudential Insurance Company B in AL and BA. 
Coopers and Lybrand B in Acct. MBA with Acct. background or concentration. 
M.I.T. Lincoln Laboratory MS, Ph.D. in EE and Physics 
John Hancock Mutual LHe Ins. Co. BM in all disciplines. 
State of Indiana BM in all disciplines. 

Lucky Steer Restaurants, Inc. All BBA. 
National Steel Corporation B in ME, EE, Met and Mgt. 
Dow Chemical U.S.A. BM in ChE and ME. BM in Chern. 
General Dynamics Corporation BMD in AE, ME, EE, MEIO, EG SCI. (Chang from Manual: No. CE, MENO or Comp Sci.) 
Morse Chain Division of Borg-Warner Corp. Bin ME, MEIO, CE, EE. 
Northern Dlinois Gas Company B in all Engr. disciplines. 
Sundstrand Corporation BM in ME and EE. 

U.S. General Accounting Office All BBA. MBA with Business background. At least 6 semester hours of Acct. required. 
Oairol Inc. B in AL and BA. 

General Electric Company B in AE, MENO. BM in ME, MEIO, EE, ChE, Met. (GE application form requested in addition to Profile) 
Standard OU Co. of Cal. and Chevron Co. BMD in ChE and ME. 
The Equitable Life of New York 
Bin ALand BA. MBA 

Oct. 5 Marquette University • B in all disciplines. 
Oct. 7 University of Iowa -B in all disciplines. 
Jewish exhibit features aspects of ''Yom Kippur'' 
An exhibit entitled, "Yom medieval Jewish legal scholar and Kippur in the Literature of Juda-philosopher," he stated. ism,'~ currently being shown in the "Finally, by including books like concourse of the Memorial Library, the recently published Jewish focuses on the ways different catalog, we tried to show how aspects of Yom Kippur, the Day of traditional Jewish tendancies, in Atonement, have been understood practice and in literature, take on in Jewish biblical interpretation modern forms in the United and in rabbinic literature. States,'' he added. 
Primus noted that books in the Ther exhibit is sponsored by exhibit are from Notre Dame's Notre Dame's Center for the Study Abrams Collection, established by of Judaism and Christianity in Edward and Bernard Abrams of Antiquity, in association with the Atlanta, and named in honor of 
Alfred R. and Lee Abrams Collec-their parents, Alfred and Lee, tion in Hebrew and Jewish Studies former residents of South Bend. and the Jewish Book Month Com-Primus stated, "We believe that mittee. 
this exhibit provides one way to 
According to Professor Charles fulfill what Edward Abrams, an Primus, spokesman for the Center, alumnus of our university, has the exhibit serves several pur-called the primary purpose of our poses. "first, we have tried to activities, namely, to ilpprove provide some information about the Christian understanding of Jews scriptural basis and the practices-of and Judaism by providing resource Yom Kippur, which must be consi-material and scholarly studies for dered one of the most important those seeking an appreciation of days in the Jewish liturgical year," the variety and richness of the he said. "Second, we wanted to Jewish experience from !Abraham display some of the best known, to modern America." / but nonetheless seldom seen, The Jewish Book Month Com­books of Jewish tradition. Th~ _mittee is chaired by Mrs. Oscar exhibit includes standard folio edi--Janovsky, who has bec;ln assisted tions of the Babylonian Talmud, by Mr. Isaac Albala, of the Jewish the Shulhan Aruch (the most Community Council, and Mr. famous codification of Jewish reli-Howard Zar. gious law), and works by Maimo-The exhibit will be on display nides, probably the most important through November 15. 

5 minutes from 'campus 277-3355 
-Ill ... 
_10 the observer 

i Research accelerators proctuce 
I 

I significant radiation data 
the Radiation Research Lab.  
"Visitors  from  all  over  the  
world---students,  professors,  and  
senior  scientists,  come  to  the  


by Mlle Ridenour 
Notre Dame's Radiation Re­search Laboratory js producing data of world-wide significance. Three accelerators, responsible for this data, measure the rate of a chemical reaction and "determine what happens in the middle of those reactions--how they occur,'' said Dr. Robert Schuler, director of 
i the Radiation Laboratory. The data obtained is published in chemical journals where chemists around the world use these results as refer­ence material for their research. The most powerful of the three accelerators is the Linear Electron­
ic. Its voltage is approximately four times greater than the two Van de Graaff accelerators at the lab. The Linear Electronic accelerator, which was installed ten years ago, "permits us to examine reactions. 



There are about ten in the world, but Notre Dame's is the only one to be computerized, thus we can study reactions much faster,'' Schuler explained. 
The 3 million volt Van de Graaff measures the physical and chemi­cal properties of microwaves. · · Unlike the Linear Electronic accel­erator, that works with light, the Van de Graaff uses strictly micro­waves. It is 20 years old and was brought to Notre Dame from Car-
AIESEC creates job training 
by Tom Ford 

For students who wish to get involved with the business com­munity, learn more about interna­tional business, or even spend some time working in a foreign country, a campus organization can fulfill these needs and more. 
ThG Notre Dame chapter of AIESEC (Association Interna­tionale des Etudiantes en Sciences Economiques et Commercials) is 
SMC junior class sponsors contest 
St. Mary's junior class is spon­
soring a t-shirt contest. 

Every design should include "class of '79" or "79" in some way, according to Sue Ursitti, contest co-coordinator. This stipu­lation was included, Ursitti said, so that the same t-shirts could be sold again next year. 
Any St. Mary's student is elig­ible to submit a design, but only juniors will vote on the various choices next week in the dining hall. The winner will receive $25. 
All designs are due Oct. 3 and should be taken to either 118 Holy Cross or 509 LeMans. 
For further information, call Sue at 4834 or Wendy at 4902. 
one of 365 "locals" at universities 
in 55 countries around the world. 
Chief among the objectives of AIESEC (pronounced eye-sec) are to promote international under­standing and cooperation, to aid in the social and economic advance­ment of developing countries, and to create interaction between stu­dents, academicians, and business­men. 
One of the primary tools used to 
achieve this goal is an internship 
program. The Notre Dame local 
chapter approaches area business­
men,. trying to convince them to 
hire foreign interns. For each area 
internship created, a Notre Dame 
student goes overseas in exchange. 
This year the Notre Dame locai hopes to generate as many as ten area internships, according to AIESEC President Kent Klopfen­stein. He stressed that the program is not a foreign placement service. Each internship runs from eight weeks to eighteen months, and the students are paid enough to cover minimal exoenses. 
AIESEC • plans a fund-raising dinner later in the year, featuring a prominent business figure as guest speaker. Last year, multi­millionnaire W. Clement Stone spoke at the function. 
The group also plans to sponsor a Careers Night. AIESEC will invite people from different areas of international business to conduct 


Tonig t is Foxy lady Night! 
-

• 
$ 110 Cash to the Foxiest Lady 

• 
WRBR's R. C. Rogers 

• 
Prizes 

• 
Surprises 





SHDLJrS 
NITB CLUB 
On U.S. 31 between Niles and South Bend -Free Parking -Ph. 683-4350 
CONTINUOUS ENTERTAINMENT FROM 9 P.M. TILL 2 A.M. 
negie Mellon University one year ago. 
The 2 million volt Van de Graaff measures the conductivity property of gases, and is the oldest accelera­tor, being 20 years old, housed in 
Radiation Laboratory, since these accelerators are the focal points of a large number of experiments. There are also certain facilities that exist only at Notre Dame, such as the Linear Electronic," Schuler stated. 
''Historically,'' Schuler contin­ued, "Notre Dame has been linked to radiation chemistry. Notre Dame was the first to have Elec­tronic Accelerators back in the 1930's. During World War II, there was important developmental work on the accelerators at Notre Dame, but they would not stand up in intense radiation fields. This work led to the present accomplish­erators." 
Schuler, who came to Notre Dame a year ago from Carnegie Mellon, said the work at the Radiation Laboratory is supported by the government. "We receive 2,000,000 dollars annually in gov­ernmental funds for our work here." 
NDSMC 
THEATRE needs 
USHERS 
For all shows-see shows free. sign up now for entire season. call 284-4141 
seminars  and  talk  to  interested  
students.  
AIESEC  is  not  restricted  to  
business  and  economic  majors,  

noted Klopfenstein. He added, however, that a business back­ground is helpful should a student wish to compete for an internship. 

Fresh persons! Notice: 
MANDATORY CLASS MEETING-WED. SEPT. 28 
7pm Athletic Bldg. 
Topic: FRESHPERSON POLITICS 

ments in radiation chemistr.x_~a~cc~e~I::..-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
fiUGUSTINifiNS 

"HOW CAN I MAKE MY LIFE WORTHWHILE?" 
One way may be to live within the Augustinian Fraternity. 
When you come to live with us, you observe and 
participate in our community life for several years before 
making a final commitment. You observe that we are a 
religious community following the charism of St. 
Augustine and "that together and with one heart In 
brotherhood and spiritual friendship, we seek and worship 
God and that we labor In the service of the people 
of God." We serve in colleges, high schools, parishes, 
foreign missions, campus ministries, retreats, hospitals 
and military chaplaincies. 
WANT MORE INFORMATION? CONTACT: 
Father Bill Waters, O.S.A. 
Villanova University 
P.O. Box 338 
Villanova, PA 19085 
(215) 525·5612 
Name_______________________________________ 
Addre•••-----------------------------------­
City_____________State._________Zip_____ School or Occ.______________...!ge____________ Phone___________________ 
-~·~ 

Close contests 
Women's 1-H opens season 

., ..,.,. . 

joe Montana, fully recovered from the separated shoulder injury 
which he sustained, appears to be the No. 1 QB for Saturday's 
Michigan State game. [Photo by john Calcutt] 
------Classified Ads! 
NOTICE 

Neat, accurate typing of term papers, manuscripts. Call: 287-5162. 
Morrissey Loan Fund Student loans of $20-$150. One day wait. 1 percent interest -due in 30 mdays. LaFortune basement, M-F. 11:15-12:15. 
SMC FRESHPERSONS: Don't forget the crucial mandatory meeting tonight, 7 PM IN Angela Athletic Bldg. 
Bus service to Chicago -every Friday this semester. Buses arrive at circle at 5:05. For tickets and info call Shep, 8330. 
NEED QUALITY TYPING? Executary, Inc. Professional Typing Service IBM Correcting Selectrics. 85 cents per page minimum. Call 232-0898 "When you want tlie best'' 
U. of Mich. grad in Russian will tutor Russian students. Studied in Lenningrad Call 683-4332 or 233·9948. Ask for Melanie Lewis. 
Accurate, fast typing. Mrs. Donoho, 232-0746. Hours. 8am to 6 pm. 
TRACE YOUR ROOTS with the Family Tree Kit. All necessary materials included. Great gift idea. Call Cathy Murray (4) 5454. 
Typing -Call Carolyn 232-9061. 
FOR RENT Sorry, there isn't any. 
LOST AND FOUND 

LOST: Student football ticket and senior bar card near Senior Bar. Reward. Victoria, 4-4124. 
LOST: one SMC class ring. Initials LD, class of '78. Reward offered. Call 4-5425. 
FOUND: on sidewalk, 1976 Holy Cross Preparatory class ring. Call Denise, 4-5402. 
LOST: one SMC class ring, initials CFH, '78. Reward. 4-5143, Cathy. 
LOST: umbrella-brown and off-white. Call John 1848 (around midnight). 
Would the person who brought back a glow in tho dark frisbee from tho sophomore class picnic please return it to Hank, 226 Keenan Hall. 
WANTED 

.eed 1 or 2 GA for MSU dl 8333. 
HELP: Fam:~-, •:ying ir ' ·11 Florida 
dr:.sjiJerately needs six Michigan St. tix (both GA and student). Call Rick 8694. 
Need one student 1icket or 2 GA tickets for Mich. State game. Will pay any price. Call Erin, 4871. · 
NEEDED: 2 GA tix for Michigan State. Call 1072. 
Need 4 GA tix for MSU game. Call Joe 2197. 
Two Mich. St. GA tix for$$ or trade for two Navy GA tix. Call 283-1014 and leave message for Marty. 
Desperately need GA tix to Mich. St. Please call Ruth at 272-3513-Morning or evening.--------­Two handsome gentlemen need 2 tickets to MSU game, GA or student. Call1244. 
Need 4 GA USC tickets. I'll top all other offers. Cal Brian 272-5843. 
Need ride to Bowling Green weekend of October 8. Call Anne -7835. 
NEED PAIR OF MICH. ST. GA'S -ph 
8450. 
NEED STUDENT MICH. ST. TICKETS­ph 8450 
Need two Mich. tickets -Lots of cash. 1129. 
Need one student ticket to Michigan game. Will pay$$. Call Lenny 277-2397. 
Need MSU GA's. Please call Helen. 7260. 
Desperately need 3 GA Michigan State tix. Call 4786. 
Need 1 GA Mich State tix. Call Pam 4-4146. 
Dep(lrately need 4 GA Air Force tix. Call Marilyn, 234-0982. 
Desperate: Need up to 6USC tickets-will pay excellent price. Call Frank 277-2576. 
Need a plethora of Mich. St tix. Call Steve at 8422. 
Wanted: Desperately need 6 GA tix to any home game. Call Chris at 1158. 
Wanted: Desperately need 1 student ticket for USC-ND game! Will pay $. Call 4-4124. 
Needed: Five GA tix for USC. Call Telanda-4-5745. 
I WILL BE FOREVER GRATEFUL TO YOU if you sel me apair of GA tickets for the USC game. My parents want to come and cheer for Old Notre Dame. Will pay $$$$$. Call Mary, 1313. 
Need 4 USC GA tix. Will pay$, call Ron 
1423. . 
Wanted: 6 GA tickets to USC. Call Jeanne at 4-4001. 
teams into overtime. 
According to girl's rules, both teams are allowed to try to score from the 10 yard line on four downs; the first team to do so wins. 
Farley went first and. proved successful as quarterback Kathy Lew, on a hole opened by defensive back Maria O'Neil ran in for six more. The touchdown was negated when one of the referees called an offsides penalty against one play~r. · However, he could not . pmpomt exactly which one, sendmg the Farley bench into a rage. But their 
protests  were  unsuccessful  as  
Breen-Phillips scored  to  win  the  
game.  

In the second game, Badin blanked Walsh 14-0. Julie Breed got things moving for Badin in the first half on a 30 yard pass play from quarteback Jane Politiski. She brought it down to the Walsh 10 yard line. Politiski then took it in for the touchclown. 
Walsh couldn't move the 
ball against the tenacious Badtn defense who denied them any fi11st downs throughout the game. Mary Ryan intercepted twice for Badin. Badin struck again in the second half when freshman, Donna Schafer scored on a run around the end. 
Defending champions, Lewis squared off against Lyons in the final game and emerged victorious 
8-6. 


Correction Noted 
, 

On yesterday's sports page there w?.s an article concerning the date for basketball ticket exchanges. The correct date for this is Monday, October 3. 
Wanted: 4 GA tickets for Southern Cal. Will pay good bucks. Call 1423, ask for Mike. 
Wanted: 5USC tickets. Call Paul at 1424. 
Wanted: Two tickets to Michigan State game. Either GA or Student ticket Call Mark, 1436. 
Wanted: One MSU student football ticket. Will pay $$$(money) or laughs. Call Mary 1313. 
Wanted: 4 USC tickets. '(Viii pay good bucks. Call Jim at 1419. · 
Need 2Southern Cal iix. Bethg 272-2340. 
Neecl six Southern Cal. Tix. Mark 287-7051. 
Need $$$$? Sell me 2 GA USC tix. Call Frank, 277-4826. 
Need 4 GA tix to Michigan State. Call Steve-8610. 
GA's and STUD. for USC game. $$$$ Mick 2743. 
Needed: 1-4 tix for Army game. Call Maria, 1318. 
I'll pay extra for good GA Mich. St. tix­Loan 1280. 
Wanted: SC tickets, will pay premium. Call collect 714-498-3000. 
PART TIME -Must be willing to work weekends. See Mr. Randazzo Forum I and II Cinema 52709 US 31 north. 
CASH: for 2GA tix to ANY home game! Call Mark 287-4118. 
Roomate ~or three bedroom house at Corby and Hill. Male grad preferred. $85 per month. Call 288·2991, eves. 
Wanted: 2-4 GA tickets tQ Michigan State, Navy, or Georgia Tech game. Will pay top$$$. Call Pat, 8377 or 8278. 
Neeq ride to Bloomington ln. (IU) this weekend. Call Vicki 6751. 
Person needed with 9:05 &10:10 am free on M-W-F. Contact Audio Visual Center. 
6423. 

Desperately need 2 tix for Mich St Call Mo-4-4001. 
Wanted: Need 2-4 GA tickets to Navy. Will pay. Teresa, 4-4956. 
Wanted: Need 4 GA or student tickets to MSU game. Please help. Sheila. 4-4954. 
Wanted: 1 or 2 girls to sublet campus view apt. with soph. transfer student. Call Gail, 277-1441. 
Pleasant telephone work -full and part time available. Ideal for students. Apply Wed., Thurs. 28, 29, with American Merchandising, Randall Inn, 31 North, Conference Rm 344. 
Wednesd_a0eptember 28, _1977 he observer 
Oklahoma is No. 1 
Norman, Okla. [AP] -The Okia­homa Sooners moved back into the No. 1 ranking this week, but Coath Barry Switzer says the polls are not really meaningful this early since they bounce around like an Okia­homa pitchout. "I'm not concerned about those 
polls right  now.  They're  a  little  
premature  at  this  stage  of  the  
game," he said yesterday.  

"I wish it were nine weeks from today. Those polls bounce around like the little white ball, or, maybe I should say, like our pitch outs do." 
The Sooners had carried the preseason No. 1 ranking into their opener with Vanderbilt, but then Iost it to Michigan when they fumbled their way to a 25-23 victory, 
They rebounded the next week, though, to whip Utah 62-24, and move into third JUst ahead of fourth place Ohio State. ' 
That set up last Saturday's game, the first meeting ever be­tween the college football8owers. The Sooners roared to a 2 -0 lead, lostthat when quarterback Thomas Lott was injured and then came from behind to win on an field goal by Uwe von Schamann with three seconds left. 
The victory moved the Sooners ahead of Southern California, a 51-0 winner over Texas Christian. Michigan, which held the No. 1 spot for two weeks over Wolverine Coach Bo Schembechler's objec­
h. d ft d · 

tions, droppe d tot tr a ere gmg Navy, 14-7. 
Schembechler had said last week that Michigan did not deserve to be ranked No. 1. Von Schamann said he expected the Sooners to be No. 1 if Michigan had trouble with Navy. 
then we'll be No. 2," von Scha­mann said. "But Michigan only won by one touchdown. Its a great feeling, but now we'll just have to keep it up."
Senior quarterback Dean Blevins was at the helm in the fourth quarter when Oklahoma drove for Elvia Peacock's touchdown that made it a 28-26 game, and then guided the Sooners into von Scha­manns field goal range as time was running out. 
"We probably deserved the ranking after beating Ohio State," Blevins said. ' 
"In a way," this can hurt us by 
givin~ other teams added incen­
tive,' he said, but added: "We 
look at things in a positive way here 
in Oklahoma. The team knows we 
have the potential to be the best in 
the country." 
The AP Top Twenty By the Associated Press The Top Twenty teams in the Associated Press college football poll are: 
1. Oklahoma \23) 3-0-0 2. S. Calif. (24) 3-0-0 3. Michigan (8) 3-0-0 4. Penn St. (7) 3-0-0 
5. 
Texas A&M 3-0-0 

6. 
Ohio St. 2-1-0 7. Colorado 3-0-0 8. Texas (1) 2-0-0 


2-0-0

9. 
Florida 

10. 
Alabama 


2-1-0
2-1-0 

12. Arkansas 3-0-0 11. Nebraska ' 
_Texas Tech
13 . 2-1-0 
N tr D

14 0 2-1-0
· e arne 
2-0-0

15. 
Brig Young 

16. 
Pttt. . 

17. 
C<!hforma 

18. 
Mtss. St. 2-1-0 


2-1-0
3-0-0

"Before the game, I thought if )9. H~uston 2-1-0 
we win, and Michigan wins big, 
People with cars -Ught delivery work. Ideal for students. Apply Wed. and Thurs. between 4-7 pm with American Merchandising, Randall Inn, 31 North, Conference room 344. 
Kim needs: 3 GA tickets to USC -call 4-5241. 
Please pity me. Missed the last roll call for H-coming ticket package. Haven't seen HTH in 3 months. Need 1 USC ticket or never will again. Dave, 1158. 
Part-Time Assistant Swim Coach for the Michiana Marlins Swim Club. Pay is based upon experience and is negotiable. Transp'ortation necessary. Hours from 
4:30 to 7:00 Monday through Friday. Attendance at swim meets optional. Contact Richard S. Dennen at 288-9654. 
Need 2 GA Michigan State tickets. Will pay your price. Call Tom 3693. 
Wanted: Need one Southern Cal. ticket. Wil pay $$$$. Call 7781. 
Needed desperately: 2 Michigan State GA tickets. Call Tom 287-3987. 
Need GA or maried student tix for MSU. Call 256-1341. 
Please -I need Michigan State tickets. $$$$$-Call Jay Brandenberger,233-8288 
Needed: 1student ticket, Michigan State. JUlie, 1297. 
Need 2-6 MSU tickets. Call Dave, 8360. 
Will trade 2 MSU tix & cash for 2 USC tix. 277-1648. 
Need one USC ticket will pay top price. Call Jeff at 283-8619. 
Need 2 GA tickets for MSU. Call Mary Kay, #6892. 
FOR SALE 

4 Goodyear GT radial, G60-15, liist at $98 each, only $75. Pair of speakers, $100. For info, call 287-5719. 
PERSONALS 

MINDY, ROSEMARY AND DEAREST KAREN, We extend to you our warmest invitation to attend the Keenan 2-North party on Saturday evening. 
Love and kisses, 212 

To Mom, We miss you when you're gone. Hope you feel better. 
Your kids 

Gay community at N D guide to N D and S.B. Pandorasorbox206ND. $1. 
Gay Community at NO lnfoline, 8870 Fri. and Sat 10-12 pm. 
Ephilant-Friends like to know more than y0111r comings aRd goings!! Sigmund and Freud 
20. Artzona St. 2-0-0 
· Katie, , This OC seniur might not know the difference between Lyons or Lewis but he knows he had a good time last Friday night. Hope we share rnany more before the semester ends. Frank 
Desperately need 2 tickets to Mich. St. 
Will pay$. Call Meg-4-4046, please!! 
Dirty Carpet Steam shampoo cheap ($2 and up). Free estimate-Jim, 8504. 
Rent the rowing club bus. Reasonable rates. 24 passenger. Rob, 8922. 
Dearest MariQer of the F: -,It, 
All my love for you a1. · legal in New Jersey too. What better P' usent could I do? (besides a 31). 
Love, the F. Honorary Diehard 

L.C. Dude 
Don't let it bother you. It's N B.D. We love ya. Big Foot and the Laundry Queen 
Dear Sis, Cousin and Friend, . Thanx for the goodies. First time we ever ate chocolate chip fortune cookies. Love and Thanks, The guys in the "ward" 
DEAR FIRESTONE AND BUTTER, BEANS* HAPPIEST 16!!! HARBOR TOWN .... G CANYON ......OATMEAL CAKES...WEEKEND INN. ENGLAND .. ...3WEEK SUNSET UN FORTE AMORE MAl MORIE. 
LOVE, PUDGY 

'Dear Kumud, 
It means so very much to me to have a wife Iike you, who..shares all of my hopes and makes my dreams come true. 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY! ­with all my love, Auie 

Dear lllini Jim. Just wanted to say I love you. Truly, your Irish Iguana 
Moni, Herzlichen Glueckwunsch Zum Gebur­stag. Have a happy birthday. 
Martin 

Deb, 
Sacre bleu! We went for the max Fri, Sat nite (when are we gonna do it again?) OM 
Princess Leia, 
Since you're too cheap to write, I have to write you. Tho force bve with you always. Eternal happiness, Solo 
I, Jeffrey "Abo" Kohler, .do hereby publicly apologize to the men of Dillion Hall for my henious act of necrophilia committed upon afair and delicate wench on the night of September 17, 1977. I would especially like to behumble myself to my roomatos In 169-170 for tarnishing their righteous and unblemished charac­ters. I hereby pledge that, in the future, I will adhere to my somewhat puritanical previous policy of bestiality [Indiana-Pa. 
sows]. Again, men of Dillion, I am sorry. 
by Laurie Reising Women's Sports Editor 

On Sunday night on Cartier Field, girls in'terhall football kicked off its 1977 season. 
The first game featured Farley against Breen-Phillips in a tightly contested and strongly debated contest. The two teams exhibited tight defensive efforts as both were scoreless after the first half. Later in the third quarter, Farley struck on a pass from freshman quarter­back Sharon Gallagher to Carol Lally who went in on a sweep right for the touchdown. The two point conversion attempt failed leaving Farley ahead, 6-0. 
Breen-Phillips never gave up and their persistence finally paid off in the closing seconds of the game. Quarterback Kate Saarb faked a pass and ran it in to tie the game at six all. Breen-Phillips also missed their conversion, sending the two 
J 

,.-----------------------·-~----·-------------~~~·-·-·-­
12 tbe Qtu;erver Wednesday, September 28, 1977 


Mike Busick-the man with tickets 
by Craig Chval Sports Writer 

"I will be forever grateful to you 
if you sell me a pair of GA tickets 
for the USC game." 

"Wanted: Desperately need 1 student ticket for USC-ND game. Will pay S." 
"Desperate: need up to 6 USC tickets--will pay excellent price." 
"Wanted: One MSU student football ticket. Will pay SSSS(mon­ey) or laughs." 
If every five-year-old's dream is to spend an hour alone in a candy store, then every Notre Dame student fantasizes of wandering at leisure through the Notre Dame ticket office. And Mike Busick is the luckiest kid on the block. 
Busick spends eight hours a day in Notre Dame's ticket office, but it's strictly business for him. The 1973 graduate of Notre Dame is the ID!iversity's ticket manager, and it's a full-time job. 
Busick got his foot in the door as an athletic manager during his freshman year at Notre Dame. "I was a manager during high school," related Busick. "I was too small for football, which was always my number one sport, so I got involved that way." 
"When I got to Notre Dame, I 
Monte Towle:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;.·:;.;-:::.:·:·:·:·=·=·:· 
'Happy Birthday' 
=·=·=·=;=:===·=·=;=·=:===:=================================================:=========:=:=====:===============:====================:Confucius 
Today just might be a national holiday in China. So what's that got to 
do with the contemporary sports scene? Not much really, but today marks 
the anniversary of Confuctus' birthday and I thought it appropriate to 
bring the legendary philosopher back to life. 
It is generallY. acknowledged by modem thinkers that Confucius' 
teachin~s are sttll appropriate to mankind in 1977 and that man could 
better htmselfby following his teachings. In this sense, let's imagine that 
Confucius had sports on his mind when he composed his teachings over 
2,000 years ago. Certainly, Confucius must have nad certain people on his 
mind when he thought up the following sayings. 
"Clever talk and a domineerin~ manner have little to do with being 
man-at-his-best" .-Muhammed Ah-for a boxer that is well past his prime, 
Ali does an awful lot of foolish boasting. It fails to cover up his 
deteriorated boxing skill which has gradually evolved into a defensive art 
that leaves everyone hanging by the ropes. 
"Let the other man do his job without your interference.-George Steinbrenner.-you'dthink that an athletic franchise owner would realize his own lack ot ability for directing things on the field. He actualy was goin~ to fire Billy Martin this past summer. Maybe now he realizes that Martm is the best manager in baseball and that he should keep his nose out of Martin's job. 
"Leading an uninstructed people to war is t.o throw them away."-Wayne Hardin, Temple football coach-there were other coaches that came to mind. But for a team to lose a 76-0 decision to a hobbled Pitt team indicates a lack of true preparation somewhere. Who was it that said Temple's defense was to be stingier this year? ­
"He who en~ages solely in self-int~rested actions will make himself many enemies. '-Reggie Jackson-this man could be the most valuable player in the American League this year while at the same time being disliked.by his own fans in New York. They still feel that any hitter earning $3 million should be hitting .350 with 60 homers and 175 RBI's each year. Jackson even admitted his yearning for personal glory in coming to New York last winter. You can't buy friends with money. Charlie Finley runs a close second. 
"When strict with oneself, one rarely fails. "-Jack Nickla.us-this man 
has to be ~ne of the. most ~edicated ~en 1!1-his profession of golf. Anyone 
who consts~ently w~ns maJ?r champtonsh~ps _and always places in the top 
ten ev.en w_tth outstde bustness and family mterests and clamoring fans 
followmg h1m wherever he goes has to be a master of self-discipline. His 
golf game always comes first. 

"Not to alter one's faults is to be faul~y indeed"-Bobby Knight-he's been one of _the most succesful coaches m college basketball in recent years. But h1s refusal to treat his players with more respect is causing him to lose some very good tale!lt. Kmght's temper still gets him to many wary glances from refs and h1s own players to keep him from realizing his full potential as a winning coach.
•

"Great man develo.Ps the virtues in others, not their vices. Petty man d~s just the opposite."-Jerry Kapstein, Alan Ea&leson and Marvin M1ller-these 'men' profess that !hey r~p_resent the ~trtul:!us qualities of great athletes. Actually, they re ru1mng the economic structure of 
-profe~ional sports while making a bundle for themselves. One would 
havelto be crazy if he thinks that these men are representing the virtues of professional athletes. 
"Great Man is no Robot" -Statz-a worthless, piece of junk. 
L_--------------------~--------~------------------~ 
knew of the manager's organiza­tion, so I got in at the ground floor and worked my way up." By his senior year, Busick was the head football manager for the Irish. 
Upon graduation, Busick began working for Clairol, Inc. as a sales representative in the Chicago area. He was still wet behind the ears when he received a call from former Notre Dame ticket manager Don Bouffard offering him a job as assistant ticket manager. 
"It really wasn't a hard deci­sion," remembered Busick. "This was in August, and it would have been the first time in nine years that I wouldn't haven ben associa­ted with a football team. 
"The only thing I had second thoughts about was that I really didn't give Clairol a fair chance. But I thought that I was still young enough, that if I had made the wrong decision, I could always go back," said Busick. "Itwasn't as if I was throwing my whole life away." 
Busick made the move to ticket manager in March, 1975, and he's been juggling events under the Golden Dome ever since. The ticket manager and his staff are in charge of all events on the campus that require a ticket for admission. 
This includes athletic events, con­
-Dr. Kelly looks for the elimination~ of costly baseball errors 
J 
by Craig Chval Sports Writer 
Notre Dame's baseball team will be looking for a little more consis­tency when the Irish host Bradley Friday in the first contest of a four-game weekend. The two teams will tangle again Saturday morning on Jake Kline Field before Notre Dame travels to Indiana State for a Sunday doubleheader. 
Illinois State spoiled Notre Dame's season opener last Friday by slapping the Irish twice--7-1 and 8-3. Notre Dame was under­mined in bothe games by physical and mental errors. ''There were a number of things we did well, but not as consistently as we would have liked," summed up Irish Head Coach Dr. Tom Kelly. 
Don Wolfe was the starter and loser in game one, as he was knocked out in a three-run fourth inning. In three and one-third innings, Wolfe was touched for five earned runs on eight hits. He fanned two and walked one. 
Designated hitter Greg Weston was two-for-two and batted in the only Irish run. Shortstop Rick Pullano spanked two singles in four trips to the plate. 
The visiting Redbirds scored four times in the fifth inning to snap a 3-3 deadlock in the second game. Starting and losing pitcher Joe Leahy was the victim of the outburst. 
Illinois State jumped out to a 3-0 lead in the third, but Notre Dame knotted the score with a pair of runs in its half of the third, and a single tally in the fourth. Bob Cleary chased home two runners with a single in each inning, and Dave DeFacci added a run­producing single. 
Kelly will be looking for improve­ment from his mound corps over the upcoming weekend. "In college ball, you have to be able to stay ahead of the hitters· and throw the pitches you want." Kelly ation time." 
attributed some of the pitching Kelly plans to give both of the 
difficulties to rain-shortened prac­seniors more work in the Bradley
tice sessions. games before sending a pair of his 
"Don Wolfe wasn't as sharp as younger hurlers against Indiana he usually is," said Kell)(, "but State. he's anxious to get back out here. Game time Friday is 3:30 p.m.,Joe Leahy, I thought, pitched very while Saturday's tilt begins at well considering the lack of prepar-10:15 p.m. 
Tony Pace 

Varsity Soccer 
It Sure Is 
In this space last week, the soccer situation at Notre Dame was 
discussed; the specific concern was the possibility of varsity status. 
Well, the club has received its well deserved promotion. Though the 
soccer players were notified individually by Fr. Joyce last Friday, no 
official announcement was made until yesterday. This action, along 
with the promotion of women's basketball, is certainly applauded. 
How will this change soccer at Notre Dame? There will be no great 
revolution in the Notre Dame soccer program, just steady evolution. 
Though the schedule is set for this season, it can be expanded and 
broadened in the future. There is a great concentration of schools with 
varsity soccer teams within 100 miles of Notre Dame. Many of these 
schools are smaller ones; though they do not have prestigous athletic 
histories, they have solid soccer programs. 
Initially, the team will be placed by the NCAA in either Division II or 
Division III of its soccer set up. This is because the program here is 
rather small when compared with that of Hartwick or St. Louis 
University, two Division I powers. As the team merits promotion, the 
NCAA will certainly consider it. 
The team will not offer any scholarships, but recruiting should be no 
great problem. During the past few years, the number of applicants to 
the University interested in soccer has increased dramatically. In fact, 
there have even been a few players who sent films of some of their 
outstanding high school performances to be evaluated. The name 
Notre Dame will cetainly attract interest from soccer players as it does 
for any other major sport. Since the number of scholarships given for 
soccer is considerably less than those given for football or basketball, 
there should be little problem in this area. 
Ifthe recent performance of the team is any indication of what can be 
expected, the team should fare well. They have won their first two 
varsity games, 2-1 in overtime against Purdue and 4-1 over Indiana 
Tech. The Purdue game was played at West Lafayette last Saturday 
afternoon during the football game and attracted a crowd of 400. Dan 
McCourrie scored the winning goal in the second overtime period for 
the Irish. Though Indiana Tech is not highly rated, they had won all of 
their contests before they faced Notre Dame. 
So, the soccer team is off to a good start as they strive to be part of 
the next "big" sport to sweep the campuses. 
Finally, the team plays at home this Friday evening on Cartier Field at 7:30. Their opponent will be the University of Michigan. Admission is a meager SO cents. So, between the pep rally and the parties, why not stop by and get a taste of Notre Dame's newest varsity sport. 
certs, conventions, sales and a host of other functions. 
But his biggest responsibility lies in the sporting events. The task of sending out order forms and filling requests for football tickets begins in the spring. 
The office staff must handle season ticket renewals, contribu­ting alumni requests, and Mono­gram winner orders. No new season tickets have been sold since 1967. Instead, seats that are not renewed are transfered to contribu­tins alumni allocation to attempt to satisfy Notre Dame's rapidly grow­ing list of alumni. 
"It's becoming increasingly dif­ficult to handle alumni requests," said Busick. "Our alumni has almost doubled since Father Res­burgh took over as president in 1952." 
It is even more difficult to provide tickets for what has com­monly become known as the "Sub­way Alumni"--Notre Dame fans who are not graduates of the Univerisity. 
"We try to accomodate these people at our road games, but we receive a very limited number of tickets, and most of those go to contributing alumni," explained Busick. 
Basketball is beginning to rival football in terms of ticket scarcity. Busick's staff did not sell any additional season tickets this year, and he expects sellouts at every game. 
With the continued success of Notre Dame's hockey team, atten­dance has risen considerably, al­though as a rule, tickets are available. 

But as most students are pain­59,075, every game would contin­
fully aware, football tickets are the ue to sell out. 
hardest to come by. This year 
$250,000 was returned for orders 
But if an out-of-town suest of yours is standing outs1de thewhich could not be filled . When stadium while the Irish are battlingasked to speculate, Busick estima­USC, it's small consolation that
ted that if the stadium could hold 70,000people instead of the present he's got a Jot of company. 






