The Observer 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's Vol. XII, No. 6 Tuesday, September 6, 1977 
Congress concludes 
Lance should resign 
W ASHINGTON(AP) -The lead-illegality of serious enough nature think Bert Lance can be an effective ers of a Senate committee inves-that we felt an obligation to tell the OMB director pending the hearings Fr. Ferdinand L. Brown tigating Bert Lance's financial af-President of our findings." and pending the investigation of all fairs told President Carter yester-Ribicoff confirmed that three the allegations." . day they have uncovered new committee investigators had talked , Tne White House issued a short
Fr. Brown to serve 
allegations "of such a serious with a man serving an eight-year statement saying that Carter had 
nature'' that the budget director prison term for embezzling $1 met with the senators to be briefed 
should resign. million from Lance's Calhoun First on their plans to resume the 
Sens. Abraham Ribicoff (D-National Bank. hearings. 
Conn.) and Charles H. Percy The Atlanta Constitution re-The President "expressed his 
-Fr. Ferdinand t. Brown, Notre work early this fall. The provost is (R-DI.), both said they felt it was in ported Monday that, the convict, appreciation to the senators that Dame associate provost since 1970, elected by the Board of Trustees the former Georgia banker's own Billy Lee Campbell, had signed an the hearings would be commenced has been appointed acting provost upon recommendation of the Pres­interest that he resign. They did affidavit implicating Lance in his without delay," the White House by University President Fr. Theo­ident. not disclose the allegations. criminal activities. statement said. dore M. Hesburgh. Brown received his undergrad­There was no immediate res-Ribicoff denied that the com-Carter is pleased that they 
Brown will assume the duties uate degree from Notre Dame in ponse from Lance, who has been mittee had an affidavit. "would be conducted in an expedi­relinquished by Fr. James T. 1938 and went on to graduate study under investigation for his activ-Lance, contacted at his vacation tious manner that would allow all Burtchaell, who announced his here, receiving his master's in ities as head of two Georgia banks ' retreat in Sea Island, Ga., earlier parties the opportunity to present resignation as provost August 25 to mathematics in 1945 and his doc­and for large overdrafts on his yesterday, denied any involvement the facts to the American people,'' return to full-time teaching in the torate in the field in 1947. With the family's checking accounts. in Campbell's criminal activities. the statement said. Department of Theology. exception of a year as a postdoc­Carter gave no indication that he Ribicoff said the full panel would Percy said he felt Lance should 
Sister John Miriam Jones, assis­toral fellow at Yale in 1951-52, he planned to press for the resignation be briefed on the allegations today. "resign in his own interest or step tant provost, and Dr. William M. taught at Notre Dame from 1946 to of his embattled budget director. He also said the committee would aside so he can properly defend Burke, assistantto the pro"ost, will 1963 and was religious superior of The White House issued a decide then whether Lance would himself against the allegations that continue in their positions. Holy Cross priests at the institution statement after the 40-minute testify this week as scheduled. have been made in the media and 
An advisory committee to con­from 1960 to 1968. Before his meeting saying only that the Pres-Percy, the committee's ranking certain information tbat we have sider nominations for a permanent appointment as associate ·provost, ident was pleased Ribicoff's Senate minority member, said the inves­now acquired ourselves." replacement for Father Burtchaell, he was acting vice president for Governmental Affairs Committee tigation may have to be expanded. But Percy said, "Mr. Lance told consisting of five members from academic affairs. would resume its hearings without "My personal feeling is that a me he has no intention of re­the elected faculty representatives A native of Portsmouth, Ohio, delay tomorrow. -special prosecutor should be ap-signing. He has publicly said he to the Academic Council and one Brown entered Holy Cross Sem­Ribicoff said he and Percy asked pointed,'' said Percy. wants the hearings to be Jleld." from its student members, is inary at Notre Dame in 1930 and for the meeting "to bring to the Ribicoff said, "It would be wiser The Senate panel is reconvening expected to be formed and begin was ordained in 1942. President's attention allegations of for Bert Lance to resign. I don't hearings on Lance's financial af­
fairs tomorrow. 
Ribicoff said his full committee 
would meet today to hear the latest 
evidence uncovered by investi­


as acting Provost 
gators. A house banking subcommittee coordinator for the South Dining already planned to hold a hearing 
Dining hall worker shortage alleviated 
by Ann Gales have financial need. Thus, the jobs by the financial aid office. Staff Reporter office of student employment has "We still needed more people than 
Hall, said that the dining hall is today on how thoroughly bank presently rehiring former employ­examiners probed Lance's affairsreferred to the dining halls for those hired from that list,'' Price 
employment only those students commented, "so we've been given ees who lost their jobs last spring when he was nominated .to be 
permission to go ahead and hire when the financial need policy was budget director late last year. 
The remainder of students to be who have been determined finan­The House panel planned tohired by the Notre Danie dining cia1ly needy by the Co1lege Scholar­students without financial need.'' put into effect. "Essentially what 
ship Service. Almeida pointed out that the we had to do was to exhaust the list question federal bank examiners ­halls this year will not have to meet 
financial requirements. This "The financial aid office has change in policy will· apply only to of financial aid people before we about the thoroughness of the change in policy, caused by a been very helpful,'' stated Edmund this year. "We'll just have to take could hire other kids," Szczepanski original Lance investigation. 
Price, director of food services. each year one at a time and see how remarked. He added that the Among them are Robert A.
shortage of eligible students, was problem is already well on its way Bloom, actinsz comptroller of thedecided in a meeting between ''They bend over backwards to help things work out,'' she said. 
Adam Szcze anski, student to solution. (eoadned • ...4)dining hall and financial aid repre­us." However, Price said that the sentatives this past weekend. dining halls have been short on 
In keeping with University pol­workers, especially for lunches and icy, the dining halls have thus far weekends, these first few weeks, this year hired only financially creating a ''hardship both for needy students. However, only regular dining hall employees and 
half of these openings could be the students who eat in the dining filled by eligible students. ha1ls." 
According to Margaret Almeida, In an effort to alleviate the supervisor of student employment, problem, student coordinators for University officials made a policy the dining halls over the weekend last spring requiring that all stu­contacted, a number of students dents employed by the University who were dete~ned eligible for 
Darby's Place to open 
Darby's Place will open its doors The night spot, now in its fourth at midnight tonight for the "night" year, will initiate a new form of people of Notre Dame. Located in diversion for its patrons this year, the LaFortune !Wthske1lar Darby's Griffin added. Cartoons and classic offers shelter ana refreshment to film shorts such as Laurel and those in search of a study spot or Hardy, will be shown for about 15 scintillating conversation in the minutes two or three nights a week. wee hours. Otherwise, Griffin noted, 
Darby's will be open Sunday Darby's will continue to furnish "a through Thursday nights from place to study br relax, re­midnight to 4 a.m. Fr. Robert freshments, and the conversation Griffin, spokesman for Proprietor ,of friendly and_ compatible Darby O'Gill, described Darby's as people." a "clean well-lighted place," Darby's Place is still in need of designed as a service for those who volunteers to act as hosts and desire it. Darby's will offer donuts, hostesses during its hours of rolls and beverages on Monday operation. Anyone interested can through Thursday and will add ham contact Griffin at 7066, drop by sandwiches to its menu on Sun­Darby's, or sign up at Activities days, Griffin announced. Night. 


_ Tuesday, September 6, 1977

! the observer 
-----------J\Tewe Briefs---. 
~~~===~~~~===Nationru 


Voyager 1 blasts off 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. • Voyager 1 blasted off toward the outer planets yesterday in a near-flawless launch, joining its twin space probe Voyager 2 on a 675-million-mile journey to Jupiter and beyond. 
It was the second launch in a $500-million program designed to provide valuable new informa­tion about the creation of the universe, the origins of the solar system and the formation of planet Earth. 
~On Campus Today~ 
1-5 pm 
4 pm 
4:10pm 
7pm 7:10pm 
10 pm -student union plant sale -Iafortune ballroom 
-seminar, "synchorotron radiation: some chemical applications" by dr. david ederer, physics division of national bureau of standards, washington, d.c., sponsored by rad. lab., conf. rm. radiation ~b, open to public. 
-seminar, "liposome, a carrier of polynucleotides and drugs to cells and tissues" by dr. c. kulpa, sponsored by biology dept., galvin life science aud., open to public. 
-meeting, rowing recruits meeting, eng. aud. 
-eucharist, charismatic eucharist, log chapel, open to everyene. · 
-meeting, knights of columbus, council chambers, new members welcome. 

New Parish Education Series offered at SMC 
A lecture-discussion series, "Story and Theology," will begin tonight at Saint Mary's College. 
Designed to expand and enliven religious edpcation programs, the series will examine the Catholic tradition through biblical . stories and classic autobiographies. The topics are as follows: 
September 6 Thomas 
Merton-The Seven Story Mountain September 2D Dante -Inferno October 4 Genesis Octobf(r 18 Exodus 
r*The Observerl 
Ni!'ht Editor: John Calcutt 
Asst. Night Editor: Leigh Tu­nakan Layout Staff: Beth Cutter, Sandy Colson, Margie Brassil, Tracy Herman, Dick O'Malley Sports Layout: Greg Solman Typists: Gwen Coleman, Sue Scribner, Mary Jo Cushing, Lisa DiValerio Night Controller: Karen Chiames Day Editor: Kate Flynn Copy Reader: Chris Datzman Ad Layout: Debbie Westrope 
lPhotographer: Grek Trzupek J 
November 1 Augustine · 
Confessions 
November 15 Gospel of Mark 
November 29 Gospel of Luke 
Sr. Elena Malits CSC, 
Chairperson of the_ Religious Studies Department at Saint Mary's, and Fr. David Burrell CSC, chairman of Notre Dame's Theo­logy Department, are coordinating the series. 
The series is designed especially for persons involved with parish religious education programs, Saint Mary's and Notre Dame students, and anyone else who may 
be interested. The series is free of charge, and will always meet in room 247 of Madaleva Hall on the Saint Mary's campus from 7:30 ­8:45p.m. 
The Observer 11 publlslled Mon­d•Y tllrougll Frld•y exc.pt durlnt ex•m •nd vec:.tlon periods. Tile Observer 11 publlllled by tile atudents of Notre D•me •nd S•lnt M•rv'• College. Subscriptions mey be purcll81ed for 121 per yeer (S 1o per semester) trom The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre D•me, lndl•n• 46556. Second cl811 poatqe peld, Notre Deme, Indian•, 46556. . The Ob1erver Is • member of tile A•sodeted Preu. All repro­duction rltllts ere reaerved. 


TENNIS WEAR WARM UP SUITS SWIM WEAR & T ·SHIRTS ATHLETIC BAGS. 



100 CENTER 
255-7770 


MISHAWAKA 
At SMC 
Social Cfr)jrnmlssJ;~on expands: 
by Chris Simony 

The Saint Mary's Social Commission has expanded its membership and promises to pro­vid<: a wider range o1f events for the 1977-1978 school year. JoAnn Baggiano, president of the commission, expressed enthusiasm for the increased membership, "There are many new sophomores and juniors on the commission this year, in addition to returning senior members," she said, "con­sequently there should be an increased turnover of ideas." 
The Social Commission is pre­sently involved in plans for Olttoberfest. This year several special events including a magician and a raffle will be added to the usual program. Kathy Friday is in charge of the event scheduled for September 29 -October 1. 
in addition, the commission a­announces the grand opening of the SMC Coffeehouse, located 
Study< Help recruits needed 
The Neighborhood Study Help Program will be recruiting volun­teers for this semester today at the North Dining Hall from 5 p.m. to 
6:30 p.m., tomorrow at the South Dining Hall from 5 p.m. to 6:30 p.m., and Thursday at the ST. Mary's Dining Hall from 4:30p.m. to 6 p.m. 
bdow the SMC Dining Hall . on St:ptember 23rd featuring student talents. Anyone int·erested in pt:rforming is requestedt to contact Karen Bickel at 284-4035. 
A recent idea adoptt:d by the , commission is a "Party Line" to begin operation next wt:ek. Maria Mignanelli director of the line· e~:plained that it will provide information on all majol' social and Clllltural events, as well as in­formation concerning olll and off campus parties for thast! students who desire to have pa·rties p~b­licized. Students may obtain information simply by dialing the SMC Social Commission's office at 284-4520. 
Bagiano added that the com­mission is working in conjunction with Notre Dame to re,~stablish Quickie Services to Michigan bars. 
Other long range plans include a Thanksgiving Basket Drive, and a Christmas Bazaar, as well as the' possible return of popular events (such as Second City) previously sponsored by the commission. 

r.,~an $hoc,ts diners, himself 
CHAKLOTI'E, N.C. (AP] -A man wearing a swastib armband OJ~ened fire on a mostly black crowd· 
a:t a church picnic yesterday, ldlling 0111e man and injuring a1t least three other persons before 1turning the gun on himself, police said. 
Mecklenburg County Police said "itnesses told them the· man drove up to a picnic sponsored by the J•1>nesville African Methodist Epis­CI)pal Church. 
As a crowd of about :ZOO people watched a baseball game, the witnesses said, the man started slltooting. After several rounds he shot himself, and one report said he was dead. 
The gunman was wearing khaki pants and a military style camou­flage shirt with the swastika arm­band, police said. He was not immediately identified. 
The dead man wa!i identified Roosevelt Davis. He w.a.s pronoun-




FREE, UNIVERSITY 
CJLJ\SS SCHll~DULES 

pick thenll up ­TUESDAY & WEDNESDAY 
~tEPT. 6 liLD.d 7 ~~:f00pm -~J:OOpm 

LaFOit1rUNE JJALLROOM 

101 ~'<> DISC~OUNT WIT'H STU~DENT I.D. ON PJI~ANTS ANO 
ACCI~SSORIES 
AT THE 


Posy PatCh 
409 U.S. 31 I~ORTH ROSELANI) ac!ross the street from Wendy's 
SALE RUNS SEPT 6-17 
.. ~ .. _..... 
ced dead on arrival at Presbyterian Hospital with gunshot wounds in the back and chest. 
Joanne Terry, 28, wELS repOrted in critical condition and il~ surgery for wounds in the abdomt!O. ' 
Larry Smith, 15, was' trc!ated and released at the same hospital for a gunshot wound in the leg. A fourth injured person, Joseph Walker, 29, was treated and released at Char­lotte Memorial HospitaJ for a gunshot wound in his right foot. 

J-board mee,ting. 

tomorroMif 
A meeting for hall judidal board chairpersons will be held 9 p.Jll. tomorrow in the Notre Dame student government office. If any chairperson is unable to attend, a hall representative should attend the meeting. 


Tuesday, Septeml.er 6, 1977 
the observer 



Women's Volleyball team denied time in Rock 
by Laurie Relalng and began to set up their equip­Hotvedt, co-ordinator of women's Women's Sports Editor ment when the building's supervi­athletics and assistant coach of the sor, acting on the Qrders of Thomas volleyball team. The petition, 
A group of 38 women, represent. Fallon, director of the Rockne which carried the names of the :l8 ing the women~s volleyball team, Memorial, told the girls they would team members was presented to 
Fallon last Tuesday at which time
were denied practice time last have to leave. 
he stated that a decision would be 
night on the basketball courts of Practice time of one hour per the Rockne Memorial. evening, four evenings a week, h~d reached only after he had met with The group found an empty court been petitioned for by Astrid his staff. 
Chinatown provides few clues 
SAN FRANCISCO (AP] • The Police patrols, meanwhile, were area. police chief on Monday blamed a stepped up in the area. The Golden 
"We have less than 20 Chinese"subculture of fear" created by Dragon was open for business as speakers in the whole police de­Chinatown gang warfare for a lack usual and the sidewalks were partment," Low said. "I'm sorryof clues in what officials call the crowded with tourists. 
the chief has said the communitycity's worst mass murder ever -a Detectives said they had no leads has abdicated responsibility. It's a restaurant massacre that left 5 in the case and complained of dual responsibility.'' 
dead and 11 injured. getting no help from the Chinese Stockbroker Fred Huie said,Chief Charles Gain bitterly as­community. 
"What can people say to policesailed the Chinese-American com­Chinese leaders, already stun­about it? Nobody knows anythingmunity for "an absolute abdication ned by the shootings, reacted about it. They're just like peopleof responsibility'' after no one swiftly to Gain's criticisms. 
anywhere -they don't want to getcame forward with information Superior Court Judge Harry Low involved."
about the three killers who -said the alleged reticence of Chi­Police Lt. Victor Macia said nowithout saying a word -sprayed the nese-American citizens to talk is motive had been determined forGolden Dragon restaurant with "more a problem of the lack of the killings.
gunfire earlv Sunday. Chinese personnel to cover the "Considering that those facilities the Rockne Memorial regarqingto play basketball can make use of 
reservation of court time for such the many outdoor facilities in practices, Fallon stated that "The 
addition to the courts at the ACC, policy of the "Rock" is free play ours is not an unreasonable re­both for men and women.'' He did 
quest." Hotvedt stated. 

say that he and his committee will 
According to Hotvedt, the bas­be meeting soon and a decision ketball courts of the '•Rock" are should be reached within the next the only adequate areas for prac­three days.tices. Previously the girls had tried In clarifying what she believes to Stepan Center courts which result­be the real issue, Hotvedt remark­ed in numerous injuries. The ACC ed,-"Our aim is not to cause is also not suitable, Hotvedt said, trouble but merely to have the because of its tartan surface which building policy reviewed. Throughdoes not promote sliding and could this we hope to achieve a designat­result in serious joint injuries. ed space and time for some 
Wh.en questioned an the policy of competitive women's practice." 
Red Chinese governmentdenounces ttieories 
TOKYO [AP] -A member of saying the late Communist party China's ruling Politburo; in one of Chairman Mao Tse-tung "consis­the most overt signals of a new, tently stood against taking Marxist­"pragmatic" course for Peking, Leninist theory 'the peak' and has called on the Chinese people 'absolute authority."' not to dogmatically follow political Nieh's comments , made in an theories, it was reported Monday. article in the party journal Red 
The official Chinese news agency Flag, were reported as a 15 member Hsinhua quoted Nieh Jung-chen as Chinese trade mission left Peking for a visit to the United States. The 
UNITED BEvERAGE Co., INc. 
840 S. PRAIRIE AVE. • SOUTH BEND, INDIANA 46621 
September, 19?? 
On behalf of everyone here at United Beverage Company -Welcome Back and Good Luck during the coming school term, scholastically, athletically, and socially. 
To assist you in your party planning, large or small, you may 
call our office 28?-1067 or better yet, meet with your~ 
"Beer Man on Campus" -BILL GAUDRAU. Bill's phone is 283-?454. 
We have a selection of the finest draft beers available for your .enjoyment (provided you are 21 -of course). 
BUDWEISER -The king of beers. \ 
BUSCH -Sponsor of both Irish football and basketball. 
A-B NATURAL LIGHT -Won't fill you up so it won't slow 
you down. MICHELDB Truly the finest at any price. HEINEKEN -With that European flavor: STROH'S-Still family brewed after 200 years -avail­
able in regular or dark. 
We also can supply beer cups, ice, taps and other items (posters, etc., etc.) Don't forget these important numbers: 
Bill Gaudrau -283-?454 

United Beverage Company -28?-1067 I personally look forward to meeting many o~ you, possibly over one of our golden nectars. I am, 
Sincerely, ~ ~ 
~ r3d.~ 'I· UL2.­
Matthew R. Dee President 
P.S. Beat Pittll 

Budweiser. MICHEWR BUSCH. 
delegation was led by Wang Yao­ting, chairman of the China Council for the Promotion of International Trade. 
Publication of the article and the trade qelegations's mission comes amid moves by the new Chinese leadership to improve the economy and turning China into a modem power by the end of the century. -Mao, Nieh wrote, believed that "without investigation there is no right to speak." 
-Nieh's call for reevaluations of political theories apparently allows room for reinterpreting even Mao's teachings. 
Nieh stressed Mao's theory of "democratic centralism," calling for side discussions among the masses before policies are adopted. 
"Without democracy,lt is im­
possible to know the situation at 
the lower levels and ensure a 
smooth exchange of views between 
higher and lower levels,''he wrote. 
Koehler explains ND scholar pick 
By F1oreneeuae SUfale 

Each year the University desig­
nates 250 students from the in­
coming freshman class as Notre 
Dame Scholars. According to 
Edward Koehler of the Admissions 
Office, selections for this honorary 
award are determined ·by re­
evaluating freshman applications. 
"We really dig into the appli~ 
cations," says Koehler, "basing 
our selections on high school.. 
cumulative average, rank in class?! 
SAT ·Scores, and extracurricular~ 
involvement and achievement." 

There is no minority or sex-re­
lated quota system for the award 
and the Scholars do not show any 
particular trends of constituency, 
according to the Admissions Office, 
"It's really a pretty good cross-sec­
tion of our applications," says 
Koehler. 

The scholar status is also not 
determined by financial necessity, 
but if a scholar meets financial 
requirements, he will be eligible 
for assistance through the Official 
of Financial Aid. 

The only activity specifically 
oriented towards scholars is the 
Hospitaity Program, in which high 
school seniors, visiting the campus, 
stay in the scholars' rooms. 

Koehler explained that the Ad­
missions Office would like more 
programs and recognition for those 
awarded but has been descouraged 
by scholars who do not want to 
appear elitist. 

Besides the possibility of fi­
nancial assistance, the award is 
strictly honorary and does not allow 
its bearer any special placement in 
classes or recognition on college 
transcripts. Koehler added that it 
is considered valuable by some 
employers and graduate schools. , 
,· '."J;t',· •.. _.•..~~"-:.1' ..... t.,~~; ..~::.,;·J~~"'t,.~,_;_.~~~ ..~ 

~-· 
.. 
Tuesday, September 6, 1977 

the ob...,.,. 


Senate to decide fate ofCarter ene,rgy program 
WASHINGTON [AP) • As The Senate Democratic leader­its version. It achieved a major · senators can work out an agree­Among the bills with fair to good 
Congress goes into the final phase ship is prepared to sidetrack most compromise on the hardest fought mt:nt among themselvest.. " chances of House passage are an of its 1977 session this week, it will other legislation to workout the issue, pricfug of natural gas. Some ·pending legislatl.on cannot increase in the minimum wage be up to the Senate to decide inevitable disputes aroused by the Proponents of an immediate end to be set aside. A 60.2 billion from $2.30 to $2.65 an bDu:r and a whether President Carter's first complex legislation. government price control lost when appropriation for the educational, measure to curb medicare and year will see his top priority Before the two chambers left for the House approved a gradual he~Llth, and social programs of the medicaid abuses. 
proposal enacted • a comprehen­a month long summer recess that increase in price. The fight will be Department of Health, Education sive energy bill. ends romorrow, the House passed renewed in the Senate. and Welfare has been held up by Committees in both Houses 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-~-N_~~-~-N_~-~-~?-------------------:~~~~=~~==~~~~==~~ 
Interested in writing for the OBSER,VER? SMC Reporter's MeetinJg SMC Observ·er office 
in the basement of Rf~gina South 
WEDNESDAY~, ~)EPT. 71lH 6:30Ptvl 

&.------------------------------------------------------------··--------------------·' 


UNBELIEVABLE SAVINGS 
CALCULATORS & STEREOS 
calculators 

Texas Instruments HEWLETT~PACKARD 
WAS SALE WAS SALE 
Tl-59 . . . . . . . $300 $224.95 
HP·10 ....... $175 $153.95 

Tl-58 .........$125 $93.95 
HP-19C ..... $345 $299.95 

Tl-57 ......... $80 $59.99 
HP-21 ......... $80 $69.95 

PC-100A ..... $200 $149.95 
HP·22 ....... $125 $109.95 

MBA-FINANCE. $80 $59.99 
HP·25 ....... $125 $109.95 

SR-51-11 ....... $70 $45.95 
HP-25C ..... $160 $140.95 

SR·40. . . . . . . . . $40 $23.95 
HP-27 ....... $175 $153.95 

Tl-1680 ........ $40 $23.95 
HP·29C ..... $195 $171.95 

SA-BUSINESS . $40 $27.95 
HP-55 ....... $395 $129.95 

Tl·5015 ........ $80 $62.95 
\,;,---HP·67 ....... $450 $374.95
Tl-5040 ...... $t30 $94.95 
HP·91 ....... $325 $279.95 

TI-5050M .....$110 $79.95 
HP-92 ....... $625 $519.95 

MODULE LIB. FOR 
HP-97 ....... $750 $624.95

58 & 59 $29.95 
1. Abore prlcea Include AIC Adaptor-ChBt'Jier and Carrying
c ••• 
2. All ebore calculatora here full one-year factory warrenty 
3. Encloae payment In filii with order, or remit $20 with order, balance C. 0. D. 
4. 
Shipping Chat'fle•: Add $3.00 lor calculatora end 4% of price lor recelrera. 

5. 
FAST DELIVERY GUARANTEED only wJth M.O. or certified chech. Peraonal chec:ka will delay the order until It cleera benh. 


STEREO RECEIVERS 
(.V) PIONEER 

PHONE ORDERS ACCEPTED IIEQ. SALE ONLY WITH IX·1250 . $100 $514 
CREDIT CARDS 

BX·1050. $700 S48t BX·t150 .. seoo $402 814·237-5990 
IX·I50 1500 $347 
IX·750 . $400 $271 (Add 3% for Credit Card Orders) IX-150 $300 S213 IX·550 $250 $171 
FNIRICAROI

SX·450 S200 S,.l 
• ..,, --·.• 

STEREO WAREHOUSE 110 NEW ALLEY, STATE COLLEGE, PA. 16801 

begin work promptly on legislation
Senate-House disagreement on

Democratic leaders of both 
to bolster the financing of Social

federal funding of abortions for
House and Senate are pledged to Security, now threatened with 
women on Medicaid. The House
seeing the energy bill through. But exhaustion of its reserves by 1983. 
version would permit furtding only in cases where the woman's life 
House Democratic Whip John 
Brad(:mas of Indiana would not There appears no doubt Congress
wa:; threatened. The Senate

predict flatly that the bill will be will act in time, but it may adopt
provision is broader. tConferees·
passed and the differences be­only a stopgap measure this year. 
must try again. 

-tween Senate and House versions Another approprialion difference The private financial .affairs of
reconciled in the remaining six to 1
is expected to be settllc~d more Bert Lance before he becameeight weeks of this year's session. 
easily. budget director will be befctre two''Powerful senators with strong 1be House included i:11 a 110 committees this week. 
views are at loggerheads," 
billiton measure for defenSE! funding
Brademas said in an interview. "It A Senate vote on the pl'Dposed
$1.4 billion for a start on B1
all depends on the extent to which treaty that would eventually turn
bon1ber production. Carter later 
the Panama Canal Zone over to

recommended this be dropped and 
Panama may not come until next

the Senate went-along. The HouseLance hearings is elpected to agree. year. The adrninistraj:iolll and 
opponents both have mountt!d 

The House, with the main energy deb;ate behind it, is likely to pass .strong campaigns and so many[caatla..cl from ,.. 1] more major legislation, even if senators have declared themselves currency when Lance was ~n­Senllte action will have to await undecided that the needed twofirmed as budget director; Donald 
1971l. thirds Vote is DOt DOW in Jdt&ht.
L. Tarleton, administrator of the Atlanta region, and officers of the two Georgia banks Lance headed. 
The White House also denied a 
1lme magazine report that Pres­
ident Carter had twice talked Lance 
out of resigning. 
The Internal Revenue Service 
has been investigating the comp­
troller's office to see if it covered 
up any information about Lance 
before he was confirmed as director 
of the Office of Management and 
Budget. 

Bloom had told Congress in a 
letter that Lance "enjoys a good 
reputation in the banking com­
munity." Previously, however, 
the Atlanta comptroller's office had 
forced the Calhoun First National 
Bank to stop letting Lance's family 
overdraw their checking accounts. 
Tarleton lifted the restrictions as 
no longer necessary just before 
Lance was nominated as budget 
director. 

The New York Times reported 
Sunday that the IRS was investi­
gating an allegation that Tarleton 
"edited" banking examiners' con­
fidential files on Lance's Calhoun 
bank and the National Bank of 
Georgia to delete criticisms of their 
operations. 
The subcommittee chairman, 
Rep. Fernand J. St. Germain 
(D-R.l.) rejected a request by 
Treasut-y Secretary W. Michael 
Blumenthal to postpone the 
hearings for several days. 
Blumenthal said an IRS report on the two banking officials contains . information that Tarleton and Bloom should see before testifying. 
Comptroller of the Currency John Heimann, who took office in July, is to release the IRS report to the Senate committee tomorrow, but it was not clear whether it would be finished. Published reports have said the report is criticalofbothBioomandTarleton. 
' 




UNBELIEVABLE SAVINGS 
CALCULATORS & STEREOS 
ccllculators 
Texas Instruments HEWLETT~PACKARD 
WAS SAI.I: 

WAS SALE Tl-59 ....... $300 $224.115 
HP-10 ....... $175 $153.95 Tl-58 .........$125 $93.115 
HP·19C ..... $345 $299.95 Tl·57 ......... $80 $59.!~1 
HP·21 ......... $80 $69.95 F'C-100A ..... $200 $149.H!i 
HP-22 ....... $125 $109.95 MBA·FINANCE. $80 $59.~19 
HP·25 ...... $125 $109.95 s.R-51-1 1 ....... $70 $45.~15 
HP-25C ..... $160 $14095 . SR·40. . . . . . . . . $40 $23.~15 
HP-27 ....... $175 $153.95 11·1680 ........ $40 $23.515 
HP-29C ..... $t95 $171 95 SA-BUSINESS . $40 $27.9•5 
HP·55 ....... $395 $12995 Tl-5015 ........ $80 $62.St5 

\.11---HP·67 ....... $450 $374 95 
Tl-5040 ...... $130 $94.95 

HP·91 ....... $325 $279 95 TI·5050M ..... $110 $79.95 
HP·92 ....... $625 $519.95 MODULE LIB. FOR 
HP-97 ....... $750 $624.95
58 & 59 $29.95 

1. Abore price• lncludl' A/C Adeptor-ChBt'fiBr and Carrying 
c••• 

2. All ebore calculator• have lull one-year factory warranty 
3. Encloae payment In full with order,. or remit $20 with order, balance C.O.D. 
4. 
Shipping Chergea: jl.rJd $3.00 lor calculetora end 4% ofprlco for receivers. 

5. 
FAST DELIVERY GIJARANTEED only with M.O. or certified checks. Personal ch•rcka will delay the order until It clears banks. 


STEREO -~~ --~ .-· --SEND -· FOR RECEIVERS t~-FREE 
!----CATALOGUE 
OJlPION~r PHONE ORDERS ACCEPTED REG. BALE 
ONLY WITH &X·12so. . . . .s100 S514 
CREDIT CARDS 
IX· 1050 · .... s1oo ••• 
814·237-5990
:~:: . . .... ::= ::~ 

&x-750.. . . . $40o s2n (Add 3% for Credit Card Orders) SX··150 1 
· · .. $300 S23 • ~· 
:~:.:=:: ·:::: ::!! . ··_ ~ 
STEREOI WAREHOUSE 110 NEW ALLEY, STATE COLLEGE, PA. 16801 
--. ---­

I 
I 
I 




'Mad Women of the Plaza' strike back -I 
l I 
I 
,Tuesday, September 6, 1977 
the observer -s 

EDITOR'S NOTE • At leut 2,000 pencms have dluppeued In Ju. aeatlna this yeu In a contlnalng wave of violence, according to hum1111 rights orglllllzatlona. Now the mothen, at.ughters 1111d .Jsters of the vlcthns ue banding together to tey to do something about lt. Here Is a report on "The Mad Women of the Plaza" 1111d their campaign. 
BUENOS AIRES, Argentina (AP] ·It is early afternoon. Slowly, almost timidly, the women begin arriving at the city's main square, Plaza de Mayo. 
Soon there are scores of them, forming a tight group in the middle of the plaza directly across from Casa Rosada, the pink colored government house from which the nation is run. 
Pedestrians ignore them, and the din of traffic drowns out their conversations, except to those close by. The gathering might pass for an after church chit-chat session. 
But this is different · the start of a weekly meeting of "Las Locas de Plaza de Mayo," literally meaning The Mad Women of Plaza de Mayo. 

The women are relatives of victims of countless kidnapings by armed squads. · The abductions have become a national issue in Argentina and provide the basis for *idespread charges of human rights violations, which have strained relations between Wash· ington and Buenos Aires. 
According to human rights or­ganizations here, at least 2,000 persons have been kidnaped and disappeared so far this year. 
Security officials claim the ab­ductions are the work of right-wing 
Legionnaire's disease returns 
COLUMBUS, Ohio [AP] • Offi. Dr. --John Ackerman, Ohio's cials worried by the most serious health director, siad yesterday a 
. outbreak of Legionnaire's disease 65-year-old woman now in. River­since it was iclentified in Philadel­side Hospital, where four other phia last year are re-evaluating cases were reported, is being recent pneumonia diagnoses and tested to see if she has Legion­may have found a fifth victim here naires disease. within a month. Her case, which was termed 

DEBATE and SPEECH 
INTERCOLLEGIATE DEBATE AND SPEECH ACTIVITIES 
(Debate, Extemp., OratOry, Interpretation) 
OPEN TO ALL NOTRE DAME UNDERGRADUATES 
Participate in one of the most competitive and 
exciting activities on campus. Come to our first 
general meeting: 
Thursday, Sept. 8 7:30pm 
BALLROOM, LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER 

TUESDAY SEPT. 6TH 
7pm LITTLE THEATRE 
everyone welcome! 




ATTENTION 
all clubs, organizations, and volunteer groups 
serious, had been thought at first to be a common form of pneumonia. 
•'The chances are the disease has been in the community, the area and around the country and gone undetected for a number of years," Ackerman said. 
So fair;Legionnaire'sdisease has been confirmed in the cases of a 56-year-old Columbus woman who died, two other women who are hospitalized, and a fourth woman who recovered and was sent home. 
On Monday, as part of an effort to re-analyze recent pneumonia deaths at Riverside and other hospitals in the area, state and federal health officials were flying blood samples to the federal Center for Disease Control in Atlanta. 
Testing for antibodies in the blood ofLegionnaii'e'sdisease vic­tims takes about three days, offi­cials say. The center, meanwhile, had sent two specialists t&--Ohio to lead the inv.estigation. 
Legionnaire'sdisease is a respir­atory infection caused by an un­named bacterium that was isolated after 29 of about 180 persons stricken with the disease died during or after an American Legion convention in Philadelphia in July 1976. 
The disease may go undetected because the symptoms are nearly identical to pneumonia. Officials say about 15 per cent of the cases are fatal but even serious cases can be successfully treated with anti­biotics if discovered in time. 

Debat.e meeting 
The 1977 Notre Dame Debate 
Council will hold its first public 
organization·at meeting, this Thurs­
day at 7:30 pm in the La Fortune 
Ballroom. The meeting is open to 
all interested N9tre Dame stu­
dents. 

The Notre Dame Varsity Inter· 
collegiate team is_ fully co-ed and 
provides competition in debate and 
individual speech catagories. It is 
an especially helpful organization 
for future lawyers, who can acheive 
basic techniques in cross-examin· 
research, and the presentation squads retaliatfug against left-wing terrorist operations. But human rights leaders, moderates, leftists, ·liberals and the women say security agents themselves are involved. 
The meetings of the women at the Plaza de Mayo which gets itS name from the date of Argentina's 
. independence, May 25, 1810 • have been taking place since the begin­ning of the year, every Thursday at 4 p.m. -But their activities went unnotic­ed until Terence Todman, the U.S. assistant secretary of state for 
. inter-American affairs, met with the military president, Gen. Jorge Videla, in mid-August. It was a Monday . but the women were at the plaza to try to talk to Todman and tell him of their grievances. Todman did not meet them, but the women attracted a iarge number of foreign news correspondents. · Police tried to arrest a woman 
•reporter as she was interviewing the women. The women turned on the police and rescued the reporter. 
Since then, the police have harassed the women, not allowing them to congregate in large groups at the plaza. 
The government bas admitted that some security groups, acting on their own, may have carried out the abductions in their zeal to wipe out left-wing urban guerrillas. But the government denies any compli­city. 
Most of the victims are described as political liberals or moderates. 
Among them are more than 30 jounalists, about 100 labor leaders and hundreds of students. The women say one of their 
' representative:!! once met with Pre­
· sident Videla who reportedly told her he· Could not do anything. 
"This is the one and only reason why we decided to meet at the plaza," said another woman. "To make our problem known to pass­ers-by and journalists, so that someone does something, we will continue to meet here until we know what happened to our rela­tives." · 
They meet, rain or shine, defying the police. The office workers in the govern­
-ment buildings around the plaza call the women "Las Locas de Plaza de Mayo," not because the women are crazy, but because the women are crazy, but because in Argentina anyone who does something out of the ordinary is called loco, or crazy. The women come prepared with mimeographed papers or letters written in longhand, containing descriptioQS of their cases. They 
· hand them out to anyone who asks what they doing. Political violence in Argentina surfaced a little more than a decade ago with kidnapings and robberies by leftist guerrillas, who now are seriously crippled if not crushed. But their operations gave rise to a right-wing backlash, which many observers here consider the main source of turmoil now in Argentina. 

Vest II ... Dacron/CoHon In blue or tan. (ripstop nylon Inner) 
Snaps and down filled ftep 
cargo pockets with snapped closure 

To gat one on-drop In ••• CAMP7 
Student Union Plant Sale 
' --· 
Sponsered by the S.U. Seruices Commission 
-
Tues. Sept. 6 1-5 pm Wed. Sept. 7 1-5 Lafortune Ballroom 


ANYONE WHO WISHES TO HAVE SPACE 
All Plants at Wholesale Cost
ALLOTTED FOR THEIR GROUP AT ACTIVITIES NIGHT ON MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 12 MUST ATTEND AN ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING THIS WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER7 AT7:00 PM 

Palms Wandering. Jews
IN THE LAFORTUNE BALLROOM. 
·,· 

r 

Free University courses to begin September 12 
,,; 

Free University, the Student Union's always successful attempt to offer semi-academic, special interest courses, will begin Sept­ember 12. 
All those who pre-registered for the program last spring are asked to pick up their computer cards at the ballroom of LaFortune Student Center between 4 p.m. and 9 p.m., this tonight and tomorrow night. 
Dan McCormack, director of Free University, said that there would be no further registration this semester, but that a wide variety of courses are already being planned for next semester. In response to the influx of applicants last spring, McCormack comment­ed, "The reaction to Free Univer­sity has been very acceptable. I believe that everyone involved has 
enjoyed the opportunity to expand their personal interests beyond the realm of normal academic offer­ings." 

Free University was established to offer Notre Dame students programs of the non-conventional nature in which teachers ~~nd students can teach and tak•e cour­ses without the pressure:s 'md red-tape of the normal university programs. 
McCormack, a certified commer­cial pilot, who built his own pla:tle, will instruct a course this semester entitled, "Flying as a Hobby". 
In addition to McCormack's course a wide variety of unique courses are scheduled. Joe Dinno­cenzo and Brother Simon will offer a course in auto mechanics for the beginner. Robin Lavendar will bring the art of cooking to campus in her course de:signed for helpless male chefs. Mark Wagner will offer a magic course, and Ted Maloney will inform students of their rights. Dave Miller will help Notre Dame students build up muscles with his weightlifting course, while Fs~ther Dave Burrell, head of Notre Dame's theology department, will instruct a course in Yoga to relax tight muscles. In addition to thesE:, a wide vareity of crafts, from macrame to needle­point, are planned. 
This is the semester to get your 





progtammable.. 
TheTI-57. Its self-teaching system gets you 

programming fast. 


Tl Programmable 57. The powerful superslide rule calculator you can program right from the keyboard. Comes with an easy·· to-follow, self-teaching learning guide-over 200 pages of step-by-step instructions and ex­' amples. Quickly learn the value of making re.. petitive calculations at the touch of a key. Recall entire instruction sequences. Display intermediate results at any point in a calcula­tion. Eight multi-use memories provide ad­
dressable locations to store and recall data. Program memory stores up to 150 keystrokes (50 program steps). Editing too: Singlestep. Backstep. Insert or delete at any point in a program. Also a powerful slide rule calculator with logs, trig func­tions and advanced statistics routines. 

The Tl-58 and Tl-59 combine three major inno­vations to bring the power of programming to you-even if you've never programmed before: 
1. 
Extraordinarily powerful-at remarkable low prices. 


2. 
Revolutionary plug-in modules put complex formulas to work at the touch of a key. 

3. 
Step-by-step learning guide that takes you from the basics of programming through advanced programmings-language you can understand. 



Tl Programmable 58. Up to 480 program steps, or up to 60 memories. Master Library module contains 25 prewritten programs in math, engineering, statistics and finance. Also increases number of steps-up to 5000. Library programs may also be addressed from the key­board or inserted as subroutines. Can also be used with Tl's new PC-100A printer/plot­
• ter. It lets you plot, print headings and prompt-messages. 


Tl Programmable 59. More powerful than the Tl-58. Up to 960 program steps or up to 100 memories. Magnetic cards store up to 960 steps. And, record and pro­
tect custom programs. Also 10 user 


$29995* 
flags. 6 levels of subroutines. 4 types 
of branches. 

Optional Libraries. Applied Statistics, Surveying, Real Estate/Finance, Aviation, Marine Navigation. $35.00* each. 



Bioryttum. Plots all three cycles. 
r:------------. 
OHe1 good from August15to October ~11, 19n. Here's 
I 
wha1 you 110. Fill out this coupon. Return it to Tl with your serialized ·~ustomer Information Card (pa•ked in the box), along witt a copy of a dated proof of pJrchase showingI the serial number. Important. Your ervelope must be postmarked no later than October 31, 1977. 
I lelsurt library OHer 1 P.O. Box ~.3, Lubbock, Texas 79408 
Name 
Address 
City. 
-----l 


I I I I I I I 
I 

____Zip _______
State 
I 

Tl 5!1 or 5!1 Serial Number. ~ ___.. (from back of calculator). TexaE Instruments reserves the nght to subst1tutn software libranes of equal value based on availability I 
Llea~::lo~~da~delive~ ~vo::er~~lb~y l~o~co::~~ o~ _ _j 
'Suggested retail price. 


TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 
©1977 Texas Instruments Incorporated INCORPORATED ~ 
~-------------------------------------------··-----------------...~........_.",·-~,-:-• 


Repair work on the stadium parapet will be completed by Michigan State weekend. [Photo by Greg Trzupek]. 
Now the exciting Venture sec 
appeqrs
f3very Wednesday
1n the 

Chicago Tribune 


We've pioneered something new in newspaper publishing: Venture. It's our way of helping you turn free time into good times. It's a section geared for livelier leisure activities, with information on what's new in participant sports, games and hobbies, advice on equipment and helpful books, plus guides to the fun places near and far. Enjoy Venture every Wednesday. And enjoy the many attractions of the Midwest's most complete newspaper every day. 
For home delivery, call234-1785. 
Turntothen-: •


htca!}o u_ttbune-­

Tuesday, September 6, 1977 
the observer 

Erosion on parapet wall creates stadium trouble 
by Catherine Farren Extensive repairs were made ori : the parapet wall along the top of the football stadium during the past month. . According to Harold Benningoff, maintenance supervisor for the athletic department, the damage was attributed to changes in weather. Extremes in temper­ature caused the bricks and ex­panding joints of the wall to expand too much, creating a serious safety hazard. The erosion occurred primarily along the northwest cor­ner, between gates 15-17, the northeast comer, gates two to five,. 
and the southeast comer and south end of the stadium in the area of gates nine to ten. Repairs involved removing the stone caps from the top of the wall and replacing the bricks and joints. 
Benningoff·first noticed the dam­age in the spring oflast year during a routine check of stadium facili­ties. He alerted Joseph O'Brian, business manager of the athletic department, who called the Sollit Construction Company for an appraisal. The Sollit Company began work during the first week of August and is scheduled to finish at the end of this week. 
Inmates cause 
-.uprising at pen . 
DORCHESTER, New llnms'wlck [AP]-About 230 rebellious inmates returned to their cells in Dorchester prison early yesterday, ending an overnight uprising that began when guards opened fire to quell a disturbance and wounded 13 inmates, prison officials said. 
Officials of the maximum security penitentiary said none of the inmates was seriously hurt. 
The inmates had refuses to return to their cells while negotiations were under say between prison ·officials and an inmate committee. The inmates, angered by the shooting incident, were believed to have been de­manding some kind of guarantees from prison officials. 
Tom Epp, assistant director of the penitentiary, said a settlement was reached after several hours of talks, but he declined to pOrovide details. 
Epp refused to confirm or deny a report by another prison official that guards turned their shotguns on the prisoners in the exercise yard Sunda6y night in an attempt to break up a fight between two inmates. 
REMEMBER! 
Pick Up Your 
Free University Course Sdledule 
Tue. & Wed. Sept. 6, 7 
4-9 p.m. 
LaFortune 'Ballroom YOU SIGNED UP LAST SPR~NGI 

NOTICES 
All St. Mary's reporters for The Observer and anyone interested lnbecomlng a reporter . meeting . Wednesday, Sept. 7 at 6:30p.m. in SMC Observer Office-basement of Regina South . beneath Language Department. Mandatory! 
Any desiring photos of Unda Ron· Stadt taken In concert Monday, Aug. 29 (color or blackl!white{ please contact John at 8340 or 136 Zahm. 
Sewing repairs. Reasonable. Call 8051. 
Typing. Reasonable. Call 8051. 
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND Student loans $20-150. 1 day walt. 1 percent Interest. Due In 30 days. 
LaFortune  Basement.  M·F  11:15­ 
12:15.  
Going  to  Pittsburgh?  Looking  for  

something to do Sat. after the game? Party at Hutch's. Stop by 224 Dillon tor d irectlons. 
f'IORRENT 
Country house for rent located 10 to 12 minutes from Notre Dame. 1deal ·tor 1, 2, or 3 people. Call 277-3604. 
LOST& FOUND 
Found: On sidewalk 1976 Holy Cross Preparatory dass ring. Call Denise 4-5402. 
Lost: One pale yellow garment bag containing a woman's clothes be· hind Zllhm or Keenan. Please call 8350. 


Classified Ads 
.Lost: Set of keys on ring, between 
O'Shag-Ad Bldg-Huddle-Ub. on 
Wed. Aug. 31. Leathertab with blue 
flowers. Teresa, 7734. 
Lost: Brown trifold wallet. If found, please contact John at 1767. $20 reward if returned. No-questions asked. 
WANTED 
Need ride for Pitt game. Willing to pay and drive. Call 1581. 
Need ride to Milwaukee Sept. 9. Call 
Mike· 8U6. 
HELP WANTED Service Station attendants. Apply at 4902 Western Ave. Clark carwash. 
Desperately need tickets to Michi­
gan State and Southern Cal. Please 
call Marianne at 1262. 
Need rode for two to Milwaukee, 
Sat. Sept. 10. Return trip if avail· 
able. Call Steve 1037. · 
FEMALE EXERCISE INSTRUCTOR WANTED. 3:00-8:00p.m. ecper. · fence In exercise, physical educa­tion, or dance prefemtd. Apply In penon. New Profile Figure Salons, Inc. US 31 and Auten Road, South Bend. 
Wanted: 2 girls to lhare house. Call 
Frani 234-3730. 

Wanted: 4 GA tickets tor Southern Cal. Will pay good bucks. Call 1423, ask tor Mike. 
NEEDED: Up to five tickets for Pitt game. Call Bill 8772. 
Desperately need one or two Pitt tickets for sister living in Pitts­burgh. Call Susan 6636. 
Wanted: Michigan State tickets . general admission preferable. Will pay ss. Call 4-4001 and ask tor Jeanne or Mo. 
Desperately need up to 5 Pitt , tickets. Will pay top dollar. Call George 8689. 
NEEDED: 1 or 2 Student Season's passes. Will pay good SSS. Call: 283-8063. 
Save my jugular! My parents from Seattle will carry razor blades unless I have two Michigan State tickets. Call Mike 3510. 
. Need GA and student football tix to any home game. Call 8051. 
Two Pitt tickets. Call 8330. 
NEEDED: MUSJCIANS--Interested In being part of group to play tor nturgles In haJis\Saaed Heart. Call 6536 or 8832 betWeen 9:00a.m. and 5 p.m. 
W antecf: Babysitter for 3 year old 
boy. Tuesday and Thursday from 1 
p.m. to5 p.m. (Or 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.( ·Near Campus. 232-9541. 
-----------~--~ 
Need two GA Pitt tickets. Call Paula 
4-~732. 

Urgently needed! 6 USC tix. Will pay top$$. Call Hutch 1692. 
Wanted: 1-2 roommates SiS-$50 per month. Utilities included. Near west side. 288·9614. 
Sell your old baseball glove. Call Paul at 289-5975. 
FOR SALE 

adidas-"On Campus" complete line for all sports. Call Bill 3078. 
For Sale: Stereo reel to reel tape deck. 3 . motors, 4 heads with Auto R Reverse. $500 new. Asking S225. Call Pete 1182. 
'73 Vega 2-door. Inspected • blad and white. $~25.00 234-5686. 

19" black and white TV. Not quite 
one year old. $75. 288-2688. 
Navajo jewelry for sale: choker and 
. earring sets, silver and penshell hleshl with turquoise and coral Jitones. WIde selection -call Jim 6805. 
PERSONALS 

Henry & Duffy, : You guys owe me a million visits and displays of gratitude tor Personals. Get with It! 
G 

LDwest rates on campus: Time, Sports Illustrated. Call· nm or Bob .rter 5 p.m. 272·0239. Money and Fertune also available. 
Happy Birthday MIIY McKenzie. 
Your tolerant roommate. 
---------~---­
.... tfello to John Motto!II Guess who 
. Are you • licensed pilot? The lrllh Flyers offers you an economl~ way to fly. For Information '*I 6634, 6415. 1731 or Mtend meeting Ttturs­·dav Sept. a, .. :30 1n. Rm. 10s "­
. Sc:hool. 
----------~---­
___"'!-__________
\ HlyaJJ. HoW'syourtan?? . . G 
To the young man Who ~ to mv . assistance during the bad storm lalt ! Thurs. p.m., I am so very ......,.,.. 
!.Dulse 3733. 
t Htllo-SKR,-------~ . , 
\~~"::~.:a~---..--G ·j 
Looking .for female student to. ..,.,. . ~t at Caatle Atlnt. us,_.
mcinth. Call 272-10 .... ; . . . . 
............ 1 ., " .........~........ ·.~.-·...-,--~--... •••.. '···~.-~,p~:.• ...'­

the obaanrar Tues«Yy, September 6, 1'9n

8 
--Harriers prepare for sea:Son opener 
this is that Boe knows nothing about basketball. meeting for returning hockey play­
Besides knowing nothing about basketball, Boe has also accomplished ers and anyone else inten::sted in the difficult task of going bankrupt in the process. The man must be given participating in try-outs :for the credit. He kept the ABA afloat for three years with his financial holdings, Notre Dame hockey team today at and spent the money to bring Erving, Kenon and Rick Barry to New York. 3:30 p.m. in the Athletic and Unfortunately, he never read the bottom line, or, if he did, he's a Convocation Center AuditOJium. masochist. 
What it basically results in is a losing battle. Boe gave up money to fulfill his purpose, admission into the NBA. But he got three million dollars for Julius Erving --money he promised the fans of Long Island would be spent to sign free agents and draft choices. It hasn't happened The ·Notre Dame rowing team The crew's first race will be on Boston on October 24, which b .be yet. begins its twelfth season as a club October 9. The team will meet the largest regatta in the U.S. this fall. 
Instead, Boe took his team from Long Island and transplanted it 30 sport with overwhelrnein~: opti­University of Chicago, Michigan Anyone intert:sted in finding out miles west in New Jersey--at the cost of over four million dollars to the -mism. A new men's coach, AI State University, Purdue Univer­more information on the rowing Knicks. Without television revenue until1980, Boe is only buying time. Caccavale, and a new women's sity, and Grand Valley State Col­club can attend a meeting in the He bought a little more last week when he peddled his best player, Nate coach, Jody Gormley, look forward lege for a three mile race at home. Engineering Auditorium at 7 p.m. Archibald, to Buffalo in a deal that brought one million dollars along with to working with a large gl'oup of Soon afterwards, the club will Tuesday, September 6 for brief Johnson and the first-round pick. well-conditioned, experienced oar­travel to the Helld of the Connecti­talks and a color movie about crew. 
Anyone who was connected with Boe in New York is cQDvinced the ma:n spersons. This crew will ·comp•ete cut for ·another· three mile race Details about an informal mixer for is dishonest. He was dishonest in his negotiations with Julius Erving and in three long distance races this against top East Coast teams. The all present members, coaches, and Brian Taylor. He was dishonest in his dealings with the people of Long fall, performing against :;chools team's last race will be the presti­recruits will be announced at the Island and New Jersey this summer. In fact, the very morning that Boe from all over the country. gious Head of the Charles in meeting on Tuesday night. was in Larry O'Brien's office finalizing the move to Jersey, his senior partner was at the Nassau Coliseum "negotiating in good faith" for a new lease on Long Island. Both maneuvers cost him money. 
Boe has also proven himself to be a terrible judge of people. The best example of that is the Dave DeBusschere fiasco of three years ago. After his retirement, DeBusschere signed a hugh 10-year contract as the Nets' general manager. Unfortunately, Dave's idea of a workday was reading the 11mes and Newsday. Throw away at least two draft picks paying off his contract. 
When I think about all the trouble the Nets have gone through and tht! size of the hole that Boe has dug himself into, it amazes me that he hasn't. sold the team. One virtue Boe possesses is perseverance. Unfortunately., Boe possesses little basketball talent. It shouldn't take the fans of New Jersey much time to realize that the most talented Net is Coach Kevin Loughery. 
But the road show continues. The front office has been in four different offices since June 15. The team is playing in a college arena until the people of Rutherford, New Jersey decide whether or not to build a 20,000 seat arena. In the meantime, Piscataway is the hideaway for Boe's basketball machine. 
In today's world of professional sports, it's scary to think that there 
might be other Roy Boes owning clubs. I think the caption in the Net press guide under Hoe's picture reads, "Would you buy a used car from this The Notre Dame Crew te.ilm prepares for an4l>ther fall of tough competiton. [Photo by john man?" Calcutt]. 

f.' 
.. 
J• ' I 
~ 
.... 
. -~~ ....~:.(/ ... 

Notre Dame's cross-country team, under the leadership of Coach Joe Piane, will open their season this.Saturday. [Photo by leo Hansen]. 
Ted Robinson;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::===:===::::=:===:::::=:::=======:==========::::::::=:=:::::=:=:=:==== 

Oh, Boe! 

===:=======:=====:===::;:;:;:;:;::====:==::========:=:=:=:::::=:=======:=:::=:======:=======:=:==One Man's View 
Roy Boe looks like he got his job out of the New York 11mes. You never see him without his grey pin-striped suit and stupid smirk. Actually, Roy Boe is your friendly neighborhood pro franchise owner, using the New Jersey Nets and the New York Islanders as his personal playthings. If anyone is ever interested in writing a book on the workings of sports management, Roy Boe could be the subject of the "How not to" section. 
Consider the following ... Three years ago, the Nets won the ABA championship with a starting lineup of Julius Erving, Larry Kenon, Billy Paultz, Brian Taylor and John Williamson. It was one of the best starting fives put together in recent pro basketball history. · 
Let's look where they are now. The Doc does his magic in Philadelphia, Kenon and Paultz are two-thirds of the starting front line in San Antonio, Taylor will be the backcourt ace for Denver this year, and Williamson averages 20 points a game for Indiana. In exchange, the Nets now have Kim Hughes, Chuck Terry, Darnell Hillman, George Johnson and a first-round draft choice. Also consider that Nate Archibald came and went from the Nets in those deals. The general idea that one should get from 

by Frank LaGrotta Sports Writer  Tuesday we do interval workouts which consi:.t of short bouts of distance done at relatively fast  "We are also counting heavily on the services of sophomores Fred Stepan, Mark Novak and Kevin  
To be a successful <:oach you must have two things: good athletes and the ability to focus their efforts in the proper dir€!ction. Notre Dame's cross-country and track coach· has been bi€!Sse<i with  speeds. Wedlnesday we-do another relaxed distance on the roads and Thursday we do ten miles but we do it going uphill. Running uphill strengthens your cardivascular sys­tem and improves your form.  Kenny, all monogram winners in 1976." Two veteran runners returning to . the squad after a year's absence are Steve Welch and Jay Miranda, Piane welcomes both back with  
both. It's no secret the Joe Piane has built what once was a. mediocre program into a fine, respected organization. He credits hi!; suc­cess to positive coachin;g philoso­-phies. "Most college runners have a pretty good idea as to what's expected of them as far a.s training and p~rformance," Piane relates. "My job as a coach is to act as a guide of sorts. It is my responsibi­lity to make sure that each runner makes the best use of his training time so that he gets tht~ gr•eatest benefit out of it." "This year," Piane continues, "we're working toward pladng a team in the NCAA tournam~:nt in November. I have to make sure that my runners gradually progress so that they are in top form for the NCAA district qualifier me€!t on November 12." To compete in a cross-country meet, you must be able to run .. and run well. Consequently, practice sessions for Piane and his team consist of running, and a lot of it. Piane outlines an average w·eek's practice for his team. "Sunday, we take a 15·mile  Friday we do another relaxed eight miles and Saturday we compete." "Overall, <~veryone on the team runs between 80 and 85 miles a week," Piane continues. "Any other training procedure, such as weightlifting, I encourage but I do not substitutt~ it for running. Those thing~. should supplement running, not replace it." With the season opener (at Purdue) just four days away, ­teamwork is the watchword for Piane and his runners. "We should really have a fine team this yea1r," Piane points out. "Our goal this fall is to place a whole team io the NCAA tourna­ment in November. I believe that with the talent we have that that is a realistic goall. In years past we were more concerned with getting individuals to that national tourna­ment. T.bis year we're thinking strictly about landing a whole team in the tournarnent. ". With five lettermen returning from the 1976 squad, as well as some outstanding freshmen, it appears that the goal Piane speaks of is not out of bounds. "Returning lettermen from last  open arms. "We're looking forward to the return of both Steve and Jay," Piane relates. "Both are excellent athletes and will contribute greatly to the team's success." Senior Bill Almendinger and junior Dave Gutchenritter along with sopho­mores Peter Burger and Joe Stroh­man all return from last year's squad to give the 1977 Irish harriers added strength. Fresh­men Charlie Fox, Pat sullivan, Mike Maney and Chuck Aragon should all become vital members of what promises to be a highly competitive ltish squad. With preparations for the season opener with Purdue well underway, Piane expresses high hopes for his runners. "We meet Purdue on September 10, and I believe that we are strong enough to beat them," a confident Piane reveals. "They've defeated us two years in a row and they look to be tough again this year. However, the team is working hard and they look really good. I am anxious for the season to get underway."  
run,"  Piane explains.  "Monday  year's squad  include  co-captains  With  a  mature coaching philo­ 
through Friday in the morning everyone goes four to fivt~ mHes.  Dennis Vand~:rKraats and :nanny Horgan, both of whom look as tit as  sophy and a fine group of athletes, success app(:ars imminent for  
Monday afternoon we go a relaxed,  I've ever seen them look," relates  Coaci, Joe Piane and his 1977 Irish  
easy  eight  miles  on  the  roads.  the  ltish  crm;s-country  mentor.  cross-country squad.  

1977 c:ross-Cc~untry Schedule 
Sept. 10  Putrdue-dual at Lafayette, Ind.  5 miles  
Sept. 23  Michigan State at Notre Dame  5 miles  
Oct. 7  Notre Dame Invitational at Notre Dame  5 miles  
Oct. 15  Loyola, Western Michigan at Notre Dame  6 miles  
Oct. 21  Indiana State Champion.ship at Notre Dame  5 miles  
Oct. 29  Central Collegiate Conf~:l'ence at Bowling Green  5 miles  
Nov. 12  NCAA District IV at Ann Arbor, Michigan  lO,OOOM  
Nov. 21  NCAA National Championships at Spokane, Washington  lO,OOOM  

ND hockey t«~a~m to hold meeting 
There will be an organizational 
.... 










