
[Continued on page 8]
yesterday, over six weeks after the Andrle has worked in hall govern­' We believe the women of Saint CLC' s official creation by the Board 
ment as a se1::tion leader and a of Trustees. The final members to 
member of screening committees 
be determined were the four hall for the judicial board and resident vice-presidents, who were elected assistants. He also has partici­by the assembled body of hall 
pated in interhall sports. vice-presidents yesterday after­Flaherty has been involved in 
noon in the Student Government Morrissey's ha:ll government, help­offices. ing in the selection of hall commis­Six rectors and a contingent of sioners and tht! judicial board. He faculty members were determined 
also has managed the hall's pizza last week. The rectors were elected 
sales for the past two semesters. by the body of hall rectors, while Ladner has worked on the Arts and the faculty members, who would 
Letters Advisory Council, as well as 
not have been able to hold an being social commissioner of Grace election until February, were last year. appointed to serve until April by 
Additional student members of the CLC include Student Body
Bro. Just Paczesny, vice-president 
Presidnet Da.ve Bender; Gary
for Student Affairs. 
Luchini, Student GovernmentHall vice-presidents elected 
yesterday include Tun Nickels, representative; Mark Huard, HPC Howard Hall; Ed Andrle, ·Stanford representative; and Tom Gryp, Hall; Jay Flaherty, Morrissey Hall; director of Student Union, who will and Jim Ladner, Grace Hall. All . represent Student Union. The first four are juniors and will serve three are all former members of the terms lasting until April. now defunct Student Life Council All but six of the vice-presidents (SLC). from 22 residence halls on campus The six rectors on the council were present at the election. Seven include: Sr. Vivian Whitehead, .. ~-· 
rector of Breen-Phillips (also a
persons applied for the four posi­After a six_ week pr:oc~ss the members of Campus Life Co~..-cll ~ere determined yesterday. [Photo
tions, with two slqts going to South former membc:r of the SLC); Fr. by John Calcutt 1 · · '\ 

The Observer· 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's. 
Monday, December 5, 1977 Vol. XII, No. 59 

SU Board of ~~irectors to review 'comp.' tix policy 
commented.

by Dave O'Keefe way the Union sponsors concerts. 
HPC Chairman J.P. Russell, who Staff Reporter In the past, the Union had assumed announced last week that the HPC 

full financial responsibility for con­
will no longer participate in theAs as result of pressure applied certs, allowing them to award free program where they received two

by the Hall Presidenfs Council, complementary tickets to Union pairs of complimentary tickets toStudent Union Director Tom Gryp workers. 
each concert, took issue with Gryp.

will take the current Union com­The curtent concert . booking "I· think they're getting enough
plementary ticket policy to the procedure absolves the Union from benefits as it is," Russel said.
Student Union Board of Directors financial responsibility but forces "Within each student organization for review on Wednesday. them to purchase the complemen­there's a certain amount of gravy, The complementary ticket policy tary tickets at full price. $1150 has but I think the free tickets are going became the source of controversy been spent on ·complementary tic­too far."
this year because of a change in the kets by the Union so far this year: Russell stated the HPC alterna­
$425 for Crosby, Stills and Nash; 
tive incorporated in a resolution

$325 for Hall and Oates; and S400 
passed by the group last week. ''Ifor the Steve Miller Band. 

think an appropriate process would 
The current Student Union bud­
be a preferential ticket program

get contains a $2400 allocation for 
where they would pull sets of 

~
... complementary tickets for the cur­tickets antd offer them to Studentrent school year. 
---Union people at full price."
"We didn't tl:tink that it was fair 
"I don't think the Student Union 

for them to sp,end Student Union 
should be buying tickets for people

money to reward Student Union 
--it's as simple as that."

people," explained Mary Ann. 
Gryp said that he plans to act on

Wissel, Walsh Hall president and 
the HPC initiative. "I'm willing to

chairman of the HPC's Standard 
take their resolution and alternate

Review Committee, responsible for 
plan before the Student Unionexamining the policy. 

Board of Directors on W ednes­
''They claim that this is money 
day," he said.

earned by the Student Union," she 
Gryp also commented on the

said, "but we feel that it's money 
"hypocrisy" of the HPC action.

that could be spent in a better 
"It's ironic," he said, "that a lot of way." 

people that voted for the resolution 
Gryp disagre•!d. "That money is 
were the same people who took

necessary to maintain the efficien­
TOM GRYP complem•entary tickets for their
cy and well-being of the Union," he 
halls earlier this year.'' 

After six weeks 
CLC mem,bers selected 
Quad representatives and two to Eugene Gorski, rector of Howard;
by PhD Cackley 

the North Quad. Fr. Richard Conyers, KeenanSenior Staff Reporter 
Nickels has been active in hall rector; Ann Payne, rector of Lewis; government forthepast two years, Fr. Mario Pedi, rector of St. Ed's;The selection process of the 
members of the Campus Life serving on the hall judicial board, and Fr. Th omas Tallarida, Zahm· as well as the service committee. rector.
Council (CLC) was completed .tomorrow in Sacred Heart Church. 
Sponsored by Campus Ministry, the short service will consist 
of prayers, songs, and readings. Priests will be available 
afterwards for those who wish to receive the Sacrament of 
Penance. 

The service has been arranged by Campus Ministry to help 
students and faculty prepare for the coming of Christ at 
Christmas. Sr. jane Pitz will lead the service. . 
St. Mary's protests b-ball tix allotment 
by Ellen O'Leary Mary's College contribute to the 
spirit and morale of the ND-SMC 

In response to this year's policy community. It is our hope that such concerning the distribution of tic­an incident will not happen again." kets for the 1977-78 basketball Approximately 1,000 signatures season, Amy Hartzell, St. were obtained from concerned Mary's Sports Commissioner, and members of the ND-SMC commu­Ann Desmond have organized and nity. The signatures were those of issued a petition protesting the St.· Mary's students, i St. allotment of tickets to Saint Mary's faculty, Notre Dame stu­Mary's. dents and Notre Dame alumni. 
· St. Mary's has an approximate A letter which describes the emollment of 1700 students. Of the petition allld the circumstances entire student body, 595 students which provoked it, and which applied to the Saint Mary's ticket expresses the feeling of the Saint lottery which was alloted 180 Mary's students has been sent to tickets. As a result at least 415 Mike Busick, Ticket Manager. Fr. disappointed Saint Mary's students Ferdinand Brown, acting provost, were left without tickets. Dr. John Duggan, president of the 
To show ' St. Mary's serious College; Fr. Theodore Hesburgh, concern a petition was written University president; Fr. Edmund which reads as follows: Joyce, executive vice-president; 
"We, the undersigned, do here­Edward "Moose" Krause, director by notify the University of Notre -of Athletics, and Richard "Digger" Dame of a formal complaint con­Phelps, head basketball coach at cerning the distribution of basket­Notre Dame. ball tickets for the 1977-78 season. . The closing of the letter express­We feel the cut in allocation of es St. Mary's concern, stating, season tickets to the women of "We feel a fairer system of ticket 
St. Mary's College was unfair. 
[Continued on p~~ge 10] 


------~---------­
Monday, December 51 1977

2 the observer 


On Camvus Todav-~ Black perspective emphasized 
book display, university press annual christmas
4-6 pm 
reception and book display for faculty and admin­
•

istration staff. univ. dub. sponsored br university 

1n Neighborhood Roots 
press. The next Neighborhood Roots The reason ·for the change,
. by Pat Dermody

civilization film series, "the worship of nature," 
.... program is scheduled to take place according to taskforce member
4 pm carroll hall, smc. 
Plans are underway for a second Sun. afternoon, March 5. Trans­Prof. Thomas Broden, was because Neighborhood Roots program, portation will be provided for "St. Adalbert's will give a much lecture, "the role of corrinoids in the total synthesis 
according to Fr. Don McNeill, students, in cars driven by faculty better orientation to one of the
4:30pm 
of acetate from C02," prof. harland g. wood, case 
director ofthe Center for Experien­members. Mary Ann Roemer, ethnic communities." He added 
western reserve univ. rm 123 nieuwland, sponsored 
tial Learning. Sponsored by CILA, program director for the Center for that "St. Adalbert's has more to by chem. dept. 
the Urban Studies Program, and Experiential Learning, said, "We add to the understanding of an the. Center for Experiential Learn­are going to try to get different ethnic neighborhood that we are 
meeting, french club, south dining hall faculty 
ing, Neighborhood Roots offers faculty members involved this time trying to experience."
5 pm 
students and faculty a chance to than were involved in the last Student input is important to the learn about urban and ethnic program." promoters of the Neighborhood meeting, judo club, class will meet today at the ace 
dining room. 
neighborhoods in the South Bend She expressed hope that mem­Roots program. "We want to wrestling pit. beginners welcome.
6:JO pm 
community. bers of the faculty who participated involve students in the planning The first Neighborhood Roots in the last program would encour­process as well as in the tour, dinner, annual christmas madrigal dinner, .regina 
program was held last September. age their friends to get involved. because the planning is a unique north lounge, sponsored by smc dept. of musiC. call 
7 pm 
According to McNeill, the response "We want to expand a little," experience in itself," remarked 
4-4176 for tickets. disc. for nd/smc students and 
was so good that they decided to remarked Roemer, "and give more Swartz. senior citizens. 
sponsor another one. people a chance to share the Diego Pena , Notre Dame sopho­"W:e have tentatively changed Neighborhood Roots experience." more and director of Education for film, "seven percent solution," sponsored by ski 
the content of the program," said After touring various ethnic Neighborhood Roots, said "We
7, 9, 11 pm d
team, engr. au ., $1. 
Thomas Swartz, associate profes­communities in the South Bend hope to have a greater push toward sor of economics, who is a member area, a Polish wedding meal will be student involvement, especially duplicate bridge, ladies of nd, faculty and staff 
of the Neighborhood Roots ''plan­served to all those participating in underclassmen.''
7:20pm 
duplicate bridge, univ. dub. 
ning task force." While the tour the program. The site of this "We want students to see what will again take students through a dinner has been changed from the is going on in the city, and alert 
debate, "religious belief," fr. james t. burtchaell 
cross section of neighborhoods, "it ZB Falcon Club, where it was h eld them to some of the problems sthat 
7:30pm 
and prof. gary gutting, lib. lounge, sponsored by 
an urban neighborhood faces,"

will include more of the Black on the last tour, to St. Adalbert's 
undergrad. colloquium in philo., all welcome. 
perspective than did the first Church in South Bend. Pena concluded. program," noted Swartz. basketball, nd vs. lafayette, home.
8 pm 
meeting, groundskeepers rights coallition, discus-1 
8 pm 
sion of workers rights. all nd and saga workers urged to attend, Iafortune first floor. 
tuesday nocturne nightflight, sean coughlin plays progres­
12:15-2 am 
sive rock and jazz, wsnd-fm 88.9. 
am this morning, jeff hebig, wsnd-am 640.
6:30-8 am 
Fr. James Burtchaell and Profes­sor Gary Gutting will discuss "Religious Belief' in the library Lounge at 7:30 tonight. Gutting will 

Professor Bergman to 
propose three dilemmas challeng­ing the religious believer. Burt­chaell will respond to these dilem­mas, from the point of view of a Frithjof Bergmann, professor of believer. The discussion will focus philosophy and anthropology at the on problems including justification University of Michigan will des­of religious belief and the relation­cribe his new definition of ''The ship between religion and culture. 

discuss 'Sense of Freedom' 
Sense of Freedom" at 4 p.m. tomorrow in the Library Auditori­um. 
Bergmann is well-known for his ability to make philosophy exciting and interpret complicated concepts in a clear way. 
A reception will follow the lec­ture at the University Press, 5th Floor of the Memonal Library. The Press has just published Berg­mann's already acclaimed book, on being free. 
*The Observer 
Night Editor: Martha (me' work?) Fanning Asst. Night Editor: Tracy (short people are more fun) Herman 
Layout Staff: Marti (I never laugh) Hogan, Rich (of the Eclipse Parties) Barlow 
Features Layout: Kosemary (I need sleep) Mills Sports Layout: Ray (I need a photograph) O'Brien Typists: Mark Rust, Anne Giere, Steve Odland, Leigh Tunakan Night Controller: Mardi (where's my pillow) Nevin Day Editor: Sue Ballman, 
The Observer Is published Mon. dey through Frldey except during eum end vacetlon periods. Tile Observer Is published by the students of Notre D•me •nd S•lnt M•rv's College. Subscriptions m•y be purch•sed for S20 per y..r CS 1 0 per semester) from The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre D•me, lndl•n• uss•. Second clell post•ge p•ld, Notre D•me, lndl•n, 4U5'. . The Observer Is e member of the Auocl•ted Prell. All repro­duction rights ere reserved. 

'· '' .•. lr/ I ' 
0

11111 11!1 11 ~ I • : : ,'I, 
~~~~111 fl, 'I: 1/1 Ii'fttl 

STEREOLPS SERIES1198 



$8.93 


ADVENT PRAYER SERVICE 

10 p.m. Tuesday, December 6 th 
Sacred Heart Church 
A SHO.<T SERVICE OF PRAYER WITH AN ADVENT THEME 
PRIESTS AVAILABLE AFTERWARDSFOR THOSE WHO WISH TO RECEIVE. THE SACRAMENT OF PENANCE 
sponsored by cafT1)us ministry
·ORE··· 
•


... .... ... -. .. .. ·:.·~·.., 1":' 

Mike Lewis 
Copy Readers: Phil (I'll stretch 
my story) Cackley, Diane (how 
do you spell Juste?) Wilson 
Ad Layout: Rob Civitello 
Photographer: john Calcutt 

ROCCO'S 
BARBERS 

hairstylists 

531 N. Michigan 233-4957 



-~-~-~~~-------~--------~-------------.-------------~­

Monday, December 5, 1977 
the observ• 
3



Burtchaell co~mments on Human Sexuality report 
F~::: ~r Burtchaell emphasized, how­ever, that he saw the weaknesses of Editor's Note: This Is the seeond ·the report as being more profound 
In a three-part series. 
The Human Sexuality report has been the subject of much debate and discussion since it was issued last spring. The issue of the report is well known among the academic community, especially at Notre Dame. 
Although reaction to the report has been unfavorable, it has a generally ignited the discussion which the Catholic Theological Society of America had hoped for, as indicated in their foreword, when they published the report. 
Fr. James T. Burtchaell, a professor of theology and an active participant in the discussion of contraception and the Church's teaching on it, finds that he is much more in disagreement than in agreement with the report. 
"They (the authors) begin by trying to explain that sexuality is a feature of a human being's make­up that has wide-spread meaning and effect. I agree with that statement. The test of their book, however, I don't agree with," Burtchael explained. 
While Burtchaell does not be­lieve that the "creative and un­itive" principle, central to the concept of sexual morality devel­oped in the report, is wrong in itself, he sees this new principle as being more vague than the pro­creative and unitive principle which is stressed by the Catholic Church. 
"One can see the vagueness very clearly in the seven qualities (self­liberation, other-enriching, etc.) which they present as a more specific way to verify good sex­uality," he said. 
"These qualities do not serve the authors' purpose at all. They bear in themselves nothing specific which could help one to understand human sexuality. They could just as well descrbe athletics," Burt­chaell stated. "One would hope that the value system brought to as human sexuality, while not being overly narrow, would at least have within it some particularities that refer to sex." 
r,~~~~-s;c~~~~~c;~~~~~~;·-·~~t 
spring of 1968, Pope Paul VI issued his encyclical Bumanae VItae,

~ is sponsoring the annual l 
which dealt with contraception. In ~ ~ that document the Pope stated that 
:E
each and every act of intercourse must have the procreative element involved. Burtchaell gave a speech



ICHRISTMAS BAZAAR! :E 
i 
1 Dec 5, 6, & 7' j 1Qam -Spm
I 
leMons lobb)r  
~  
~  Candy, Ceramics,  
ii  Xmas  D .ecorataon:s,  
~  

Many more ~glft items~
i __________________ ~-~-~~~ .!'t· 
,_ •":>l• > •.'...::: ~ ....... ' . .• ., .... 


FRANK'S PLAC:E 
~,.,.,'IJ. 

Restaurant & Lounge 

t 
.;_,. 


327 W. Marion St. South Elend Ind. 
Phone 232·2277 
visit our package liquor store 
_,4.# Open daily 11 am to 12 pm 4o._ 

cr Fri and Sat. until 1 am · ' 
than just a general vaguness of the qualities wbicb the report finds necessary in the evaluaion of sexual behavior. 
''They are really saying that to have had se:x you must have empirical evidence that the qual­ities which the:y propose are being thwarted. While no one would quarrel with the fact that sex should have these qualities, as indeed good life should, they don't help you to discern what good sex might be as distinguished from bad sex," he commented. 
The report's methodology de­mands restraint from absolutely prohibiting certain froms of sexual behavior until such time as the empirical scientists can come up with sure ev1ctenct: that a certain act, by being destructive to the human personality and character, is wrong. 
Burtchaell finds this method troublesome. ''They have set up a method," he argued, "whereby you could probably say that most theft, a fair amount of assaults, wife beatings, J~ossibly some rapes, and the general business of warfare could not be ,condemned because the psychologists and sociologists have not yet provided abundant empirical evidf~nce that rape, etc., is destructive te the personality of the individual· who commits that act. Now I think thatthat is simply a poor method." 
Stanley J. Hauerwas, associate professor of th•eology, also dislikes the importanc1~ which the report attributed to •empirical evidence. "Their use of empirical data," said Hauerwas, "is horrible. You can train human beings to do almost anything. These ares won't be destructive to the person, but does that mean that they will be ere­ative?" 
Hauerwas was particularly an­noyed by the statement in the report that reads " ... we now come to the central! question of this chapter (Empirical Sciences and Human Sexuality): is there any empirical data available which 
on campus in September of 1968, which was published in November,
~ 
concerning the encyclical. 
Commenting on the encyclical, 
Burtchaell said, "I disagreed with its bottom line statement that any interference with. "the conception ••••

Ii w0 
which might result from the single .____..__________. act of intercourse was seriously ·...,., .. deranging and moJ.1illy wrong. I 0 c'arry out PIZZA &
agreed that the procreational out­
1 


LIQUOR
~ 
I i
;J
I 
might support a. claim that certain sexual expressiOns always and everywhere are detrimental to the full development of the human personality?" 
J.li"egatlve Overtones 
Further, both Burtchaell and Hauerwas expressed the opinion that the report was misdirected and negative because it was trying to say what cannot be done in the sexual realm. 
"In a book which sets out to be positive,'' .Surtchaell explained, ''I would expect that the treatment would be more positive. But, if you simply glance at the table of contents, you see that it is a very familiar table of contents, prac­tically identical with the sex man­uals which have come out of the moral traditions which the authors are trying to correct. There is the same list of what, traditionally, were called sexual forms of misbe­havior, which they are arguing might not be misbehavior." 
"On the contrary, I would expect 
that a book which tries to be 
positive about' human sexuality 
would very quickly start to talk 
about marriage, family, and child­
ren. Astonishingly' it goes on for 
hundreds and hundreds of pages 
without very much talk of what 
good sex, good marriage, and good 
child-rearing are all about," Burt­
chaell c011tinued. 
Hauerwas stated, "Studies such 
as this can do some good, but they 
must be directed toward the right 
issues. This book is still dealing 
with art analysis. We live in an 
anarchical situation today sexually. 
The Church must help people to 
negotiate with the problem of 
family. The book does little in this 
area. 
"Further, it doesn't really ad­

dress the question of marriage. write them." Library Auditorium. 
From the Bible, especially the New ""T------------------------­
Testament, we see that singleness, 

en
and not marriage, is the way of life. II) 
Jesus said, I prefer you to be as I ~...., am. Why should one get married? 0 CO The book doesn't deal with this," W 0 
0 1 
headded. COC")
z
But the Human Sexuality report N C") is not the first Church related CO N document which has failed to deal with reasons for marriage. In the 
. come of one's continuous and ....· 

ongoing sexual life had serious · i\~, : moral importance. ~~~.g,I "I then said that because Cath-'1 
....:.:=-=:..:::.===-=~=========~ '1
~~ 

SEND THE SPlRIT OF CHRISTMAS! 
. ··.i··
:f 
·t~inext b~ thing'· to a present...

*The ObServer 

, . . Christmas issue 
<l'• Personals 


10 WORDS $1.00 To be paid in person by Wed. , Dec. 7 
OBSER\lER OFFICE 
:~;9···...-1-. .•. ~~.....-.:.......•.. · ... Fortuno' . . . 
' 

___._...liliptw···,.l••,..-.llii.,...-~"AA~.,.....,I...,...~------.--...;-...;;...;.,....:.J· 

To-the Marines 




An apology 
0 b h If f Th Obse I Because {llages 14 and 15 are no 
n ~ a 0 e . rver, together when they are being laid would like to apolog~e for the out, the night editor did not realize p~otograph of a Mann~ bumJ?er that the ad and the photo would 
sticker pasted across a unnal wh1ch 'd b 'd 
. F 'd , . Th . h appear s1 e y st e.
ran m n ay s Issue. e mg t . · 
d't d'd t · t d th h t Iapologtze for the shallow judge 
1 1

e or no m.en . e P 0 o-ment involved in running the phooo grap? t? be an ed1tonal co~ment, and hope those of you who were and 1t ts unfortunate that tt was offended will understand that the taken as such. photo does not reflect the 
The placement of the photo next 0 · · f Th Obse e staff ~... " Marine recruitmeqt adv~rtise-ptnlon ° e rv r · ment was also untntenttonal 
MartiBoaan Editor In Chief 

olics had officially drawn their 
attention to the morality of single 
acts of intercourse, they had opted 
out of the more crucial debate of 
why people should have children," 
he stated. "In that respect, I 
regretted that the obvious purpose 
of the Holy Father had not been 
well served by the way he chose to 
write the letter." 
Hauerwas expressed a similar 
feeling on the subject of contra­
ception, "The Church is absolutely 
wrong about contraception. A 
marriage must be procreative, but 
it is a very different thing to say 
that each and every act must be 
that way." 

Impact of the Report 
.. Commenting on the value of the , book's guidelines and it$ impact, Burtchaell stated, "The book, I think, offers little substantial moral wisdom on the subject of sexuality. However, it is certainly succeeding in its announced intent to stimulate discussion on the subject. And it is possibly reminding us that not enough good books exist to offer people a sane, healthy and Christ­ian understanding of human sex­uality. So, I guess we had better 
~y 

11f91AY 
&~Y 
after5PM 

PITCHER of BEER 
1j2 PRICE with PURCHASE of LARGE PIZZA! 
Stevie, How about a nice new van for Christmas? Ho-ho. 
S. Claus 
Fr. Dave Burrell, chairman of the Department of Theology, com­mented, ''I think the intent of the report was for some theologians to help the bishops with the theo­logical matter of sexuality. I would have liked the bishops to have more input to the report before it was released. Their comments could have made the report more con­crete and workable." Burrell did not comment on the substance of . the report because he had not yet 
read it. 
Hauerwas, who is not a Catholic, doubts that the debate concerning the book will be fruitful. "Such a report should be addressed to the culture and not the Church. Where we have to live, sexually and otherwise, is in this culture," he said. 

Proxmire's talk postphoned 
Senator William Proxmire's speech on waste in government which was to be given tomorrow night has been postponed until Sunday, D«!c. 11 at 7:30 pm in the 
t\ . 
· • 
~jt 


-
..=4L.__ _jt~hDeliL...lloOflbMJils!lll;eurv_ll.llieur_____ Monday, December 5, 1977 



·Several options available at SMC for financially needy students 
by Anne Bachle ''If a student needs aid, she should 
Staff Reporter come talk to me. I can't guarantee 
anything, but we certainly don't 
Over the past years, financial aid want to see anyone not come or not 
has become more and more impor-stay because of financial need." 
tant to many St. Mary's students. Both the FAF and SMC aid 
Presently, over one third of the applications are available from the 
iMC student body receives aid Financial Aid Office. Students 
·rom loans, scholarships, grants desiring aid for the '78-'79 school 
md on-campus employment. year must have these forms com-
A hundred years ago, a student pleted by April, 1978, to be 
could attend St. Mary's College for considered for aid. 
5110 per annum, which included The completed FAF is evaluated 
tuition, board, and washing (not to by the College Scholarship Service, 
mention lessons in "Plain Sewing an independent firm in New Jer­
and every variety of Fancy Work sey, which sends the analysis back 
without any additional charge"). to St. Mary's. The Financial Aid 
This year, according to statistics, Office then uses this information to 
;t is .estimated the "average" St. determine what forms of financial \1ary's student will spend $5570 to aid will be made available to the :over costs of room, board, tuition, student. books, fees, transportation to and Each student's financial aid t"rom home, and personal expenses package is. specifically tailored to Juring the school year. her· needs as determined through 
A century ago, college was a the FAF, and may include loans, luxury for the elite few--if you scholarships, grants and/or on­,·ouldn't afford it, you didn't go. campus employment. 'low a college education is seen as Funds for the financial aid a valuable asset that ought to be packages come from three sources: available for all, regardless of the federal government, the state family income. In the face of government, and the College itself. today's mounting inflation this St. Mary's draws on gifts, endow-ideal can often be achieved only ment funds and a specified a-with financial aid. mount in tile annual budget to Students at St. Mary's receive supply its share of the financial aid financial aid in various forms, but packages, which will amount to the most common is the financial $205,000 in scholarships this year. aid package administered through. Together, the 'three sources will the College. These packages are provide $1.6 million in financial aid awarded on the basis of need as to approximately 670 St. Mary's determined by the finandal aid students, 39 percent of the current report, which all students desiring student body. aid from the College are required to For half of these students, part fill out. or all of their financial aid comes 
In the past, completion of the through campus employment. Parents' Confidential Statement Students may work. in the library, (PCS) was the first step for science or language labs, art or financial aid, but this year the PCS music studios, offices, post office, is being replaced by the Financial or the Athletic Facility for not Aid Form (FAF). The FAF is more than 15 hours per week. similar to the PCS but more Most positions pay $1.96 per hour, comprehensive, and broader, since enabling students to earn as much indept>ndent students, and stu-as $600 a year. dents applying for a Basic Educa-The various departments submit tiona! Opportunity Grant now also their requests for student help use this form. based on their budgets. The 
A St. Mary's aid application positions are then assigned must be filled out along with the through the Financial Aid Office. FAF, to supply the Financial Aid ''Jobs go first to the students Office with information not on the who have demonstrated financial FAF, and to aid in determining need," Gorman explained. "Other what type of financial aid package positions available are given to the student will receive. students on a first come, first serve 
"It's a shame that some students basis. Some positions, such as a~.mme they can't get aid, so they lifeguarding, require special skills. don't even try," commented Jean If we don't have a student needing Gorman, director of Financial Aid. aid qualified to fill this position, we'll give it to a student who is qualified though not needy." 
Other paid positions are avail­able on campus for students who do not show financial need through the FAF. The Saga Food Service currently employs 85 students at the St. Mary's Dining Hall. Although financial need is not a requirement for these positions, the dining hall job is part of some students' financial aid packages. 
"Students are supposed to re­port to us if they have another job," said Gorman. '''But I do try to monitor the dining hall list, so we know of the students receiving financial aid who are also working for Saga." 
Interested students may apply for resident advisor positions in their halls without demonstrating financial need. "Financial need used to be a req11irement several years ago," noted LeMans Hall Director Sr. Karol Jackowski. "But this severely limited the pool of qualified students from which we could draw our RA's." This year, 54 girls are earning between $600 and $700 as RA's. . 
Each year several girls from SMC -this year there are six -take advantage of the Army, Navy, and Air Force ROTC programs at Notre Dame to finance their college education. 
Manystudentsalsorecieveaidin the form of scholarships from their state or other institutions back home. 
Another way St. Mary's students may procure financial assistance is through federally-insured/guaran­teed student loans. "These are for both needy students as well as those who might not yield need through financial analysis," said Gorman. "Usually these loans must be paid back, starting nine months to a year after the lendee ceases being a student." 
People have, however, increas­ingly chosen to simply declare bankruptcy rather than pay back the loan ,she said. In response to this problem, noted Gorman, "bankruptcy laws are now more stringent." 
In fact, according to an article in 
U.S. News and World Report (July 18, 1977), bankruptcy may be declared to erase student loans until five years after the student leaves school. The government, the article stated, has recently decided to get tough with people 

r+=:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~==+t who defau It on their student I oa n s, 
The University of Notre Dame Press 
proudl~ announces 
NEW BOOKS
BY 

NOTRE DAME AUTHORS 
t:f-;;::::;;::::;;::::;;::::;;::::;;::::;;::::;;::::;;::::;;::::;;::::;;::::;;:n;;::::;;:::::;:::;;:::::;::::;:::;;::::;;::::;;::::;;::::;;:::::;:::::::~ 
a problem which has so far cost the government $751 million in the ten years the loan programs have been in effect. 
Gorman thinks the trend is towards more students requiring financial assistance to attend St. Mary's or any other private col­lege. In the two years since she assumed the position of directory of financial aid, the rate of St. Mary's 
students receiving financial aid has risen from 27 percent to 39 percent
of the student body. 

COLLECTED POEMS 1953 -1977 
by Ernest Sandeen 
THE LIMITS OF HEGEMONY 
by Michael J. Francis 
A V AllABlE AT NOTRE DAME 


BOOKSTORE 

During the course of this past a catagorical expert in the semester, I have attempted to )m,er(;handtse he sells than a car 

furnish you with a bit of informa­tion concerning the selection of 
your engagement diamond. Ap­parently, judging by your response 
, at least some of you have found it of some value (every writer likes to 
think that someone out there is reading). 
Since this is my last column of the semester (and remembering 
that this is actually a thinly-disgu­ised advertisement posing as a 
column), I thought you might appreciate a brief "check-list", 
recapping the verbiage. Whether you shop for your 
engagement ring at Diamond Im­
Company or at another jeweler 
, you might wish to remember: 
Don't Fall Prey for "Sales" "Student Discounts". Diamond 
pretty much standard 
and most "sales" or 
discount" merchandise 
stones which have been marked up in order to be discount­
ed, or stones of questionable 
quality. 

(2). Watch for Classification. If your jeweler uses terms such as "perfect", "blue-white" or "112 carat" ((instead of .SO carat), you are dealing with an amateur. Also watch out for the "tw" (total weight) trap; find out what every diamond in your ensemble weighs on an individual basis, not what all of them weigh in agregate. 
(3). Investigate Alternatives to Diamonds in Your Ring. While diamonds have become the stand­ard "symbol of eternity" in enga­gement rings, remember that other stones can be substituted for a dazzeling effect. Rubies, emeralds , sapphires, garnets (in many colors), topaz and other precious and semi-precious stones should be available for your inspection. 
(4). Don't Settle for "Assembly Line" Diamonds. "Name Brand" diamonds are no guarantee of quality. Furthermore, in order to faciltate their mass distribution, you are often limited in terms of selection. Remember that you are buying a unique creation of nature, an automotive engineer. 

proof, in precise scientific 
, that your stone is exactly 
is represented to be. If 
, check your purchase 
on gemological laboratory 
or at least ask for a 
binding appraisal. 
Always Buy from a Profes-
In a legal sense, you have 
assurance with the purchase 
previously mentioned alarm 
than you do with a diamond 
(diamonds and other fine 
don't come with UL approvals or Good Housekeeping Seals). Therefore, determining the integrity of the man who would sell you a diamond is of paramont importance. Check his credentials, call the Better Business Bureau, talk to someone who has purchased from him before, but be certain that he is a pro. 
To sum it all up, the latin credo of ''caveat emptor'' (buyer beware) holds especially true in the selec­tion of your diamond engagement ring. If I might take license with that motto, I would hope that you take advantage of the learning which is available , and "let the buyer be aware". I would be mo~;e than happy to recommend some excellent volumes on diamonds, fine gemstones and the science of gemology, should you ever care to study the subject. 
Since this is after all an ad for my business, I certainly would appre­date your patronage at Diamond Import Company. We are located in the lobby of the St. Joseph Bank Building in downtown South Bend, and our telephone number is 287-1427. Please feel free to contact me with any questions you might have. 
Thank you for your readership, and I'll be speaking with you again next semester. 
(This is an advertisement.) 
THE CAUCASIAN CHALK CIRCLE 
Brecht's Parable of ju:.ti~ belonging 
De~rmer 7,3,8,9,10 at 8:00p.m. All seats $2.50 ($2 Std-Fac-Staff) Phone: 284-417 


***************************************************
A 

I FOUND IT! !
MATTER 
* 

OF at the * 
* 
*

DIGNITY *
NOTRE DAME APARTMENTS *
* 
Wm. J. Heisler 
* 
* 

John W. and Houck, Eds. CLOSE TO CAMPUS! ! APARTMENTS STILL AVAILABLE i 
TRUTHFULNES 
IMMEDIATE OCCUPANCY !AND 2 bedrooms -completely furnished !
TRAGEDY 

complete kitchen and dining room ::
by Stanley Hauerwas with Richard Bondi $280 -300/ ~pnth .up to 4 students !* 
and David Burrell · 

...-..·.·.·..-....... •·call·6ant4.at 233-6363.or. 23.4-6647 : 
b;;;;;========t±:==========~"******************.************••...,••*************~ 

Cultural festival planned 
by Maween Eyres Staff Reporter 

Plans are being made for the fifth Black Cultural Arts Festival centering around the theme, "Per­spectives on Black America." there will be approximately 13 events during the festival, which is scheduled for the week of Feb. 6, 1978. 
According to Monique Spann, festival co-chairperson, "The pur­pose of the festival is to make people aware of the contributions that Black people make in this country." 
Debbie Mciver, chairperson of the politics and business committee explained, "We have invited speakers from the different aspects of Black life to speak on subjects such as politics, law, business, sports, theology and theater." 
Last year's speakers included Gary Cooper, an Alabama state representative, author Imamu Amirii Baraka, and four-time Olympian Willie Davenport. 
Some of the scheduled speakers for this year's festival are Roy Ennis. director of the Congress on 
I, • 
HIOBS offers teJn-day course 
in winter outdoc)r education 
Men and women 16 and one-half years and older who seek revitaliza­tion are now enrolling in the Hurricane Island Outward Bound School's winter programs, offered in Maine between early January and the end of March. Students, teachers, professionals, and house­wives looking for personal growth through adventure are enrolled in the ten-day backpacking course. 
Outward Bound has grown enor­mously since its beginnings in the 
U.S. in the early 60's. Established to help young people learn more about themselves through outdoor education, the program has grown by offering more courses for older people each year. Sixty-seven per­cent of those completing Hurricane Island's winter courses last year 
Add leadership to your college schedule. 
Some of our 
classrooms 
aren't classrooms. 
College military science courses are courses in leadership development. They of:fer you management experiences which will benefit you in any career, civilian or military. 
You can take the first courses as a freshman or sophomore without obligation. Advanced courses, in your junior and senior years, lead you to a position of responsibility as an officer in the active Army or Reserves. 
As an Army ROTC student, you'll also have the opportunity to compete for 3 and 2-year full tuition scholarships. And you'll earn near­ly $2000 during your last 2 years of college. 
Don't wait until after college to get practical management experience. Add leadership to your class schedule now. 
ARM~Y ROTC. LEARN WHAT IT TAKES TO LEAD., 
For details, contact: 
Racial Equality (CORE); Tom 
Gatewood, a former Notre Dame 
football player; and Sonia Sanchez, 
a poetess. 
"Sonia Sanche:z is a passionate, 

earthy writer who demands action, 
commitment, and change," stated1, 
Val Hardy, festival co-chairperson. 
Hardy also noted, "We have 

invited Andrew Young, U.S. 
Ambassador to the United Nations 
and are awaiting his response." 
Other events planned for the Festival include a panel discussion on Black Theology, a speaker on the topic of Blac·ks in the medical field, an exhibition of Black Art in the Notre Dame Art Gallery, and a presentation by Talent in Action, a high school dr.ama group from Virginia. 
Hardy added, ''All of the events we have planned thus far give a perspective on the contributions of established Blacks to the country. Talent in Action focuses on the future contributions." 
The festival will conclude with a student-run fashion show entitled, "Disco Dazz." "The fashion show is run totally by the students," Hardy emphasized, :'From model-
were 21 years or older. 
The focus of the ten-day winter courses is learning to live comfort­ably in the cold. Students are equipped by the Outward Bound School with wi111ter parkas, boots, sleeping bags, tents, skis and snowshoes suitable for expedition­ing and camping in cold tempera­tures. 
Most participants have had little or no experienc·e with winter moun­taineering, so the early days of the course are spent learning the essentials of living without the supports of civilization. Orienteer­ing, first aid, shelter building and expedition planning are some of the skills to be mastered during the intensive ten day course. 
Midway through the ten days, ing to choreography. This even~ gives students the opportunity tq get involved with one another." 
A volleyball tournament and a basketball tournament, similar to the tournaments held during An Tostal, will run concurrently with 1 the festival. Hardy emphasized•• "This is another chance to involved and participate." 
The annual event is organized by 1 interested students and is support-1 ed by the Black Cultural Arts Commission, the department of Black Studies, and Student Govern­ment. James P. Stewart, director of Black Studies, is the faculty advisor. 
In addition to co-chairpersons Hardy and Spann, other students working on the festival committee are Debbie Mciver, politics and law; Sandra Broadway, fashion sh9w; Dale Atkins, sports; Jordan Yound, theater; Richard Ryans, business; and Ed det,.
a. 
theology a-t f : : ·r--;-· Anyone interested in planning the festival is invited to attend the weekly Monday meetings at 6:30 
p.m. in the Black Cultural Arts Center in LaFortune. 
students go off individually on their "solo"--a two-day chance to be completely alone in the winter wilderness, practicing new-found skills and having time for intro­spection and reflection in the stillness of a snow-blanketed forest. Once returned to the group, a final expedition is planned. 
Perhaps the -most important ingredient of any Outward Bound course, winter or summer, is the sharing--of skills, successes, friends and experiences. 
Hurricane Island Outward Bound School offers courses winter and summer in Maine. During the winter months of January, Febru­ary and March, the course sites are in the Mahoosuc Mountains of western Maine. 
From early May to mid-October, sailing courses are offered along the coast from the school's head­quarters in Rockland, ME and from its major island base, Hurricane Island at the mouth of Penobscot Bay. In addition, sailing courses are offered between November and March in the Florida Keys and Everglades. · 
The Outward Bound School con­ducts a scholarship program for those who are unable to meet the tuition costs which range from $250 to $750. Additional information on the program may be requested from the school by writing the Director of Admissions, Depart­ment W, Box 429, Rockland, ME 04841. 


.If JOU Wlnl the re11 thing, not frozen or c1nned ••• We c1111t "Mexlc•n Food Supreme." 
Dallc.s location: 3071 Northweal Hwy S$2-1570 
Tickets $6.50 & $7.50 
reserved 
can be purchased at: 
River City Records 
Just tor the Record (100 Center, Mish.) 

L,_______________________________________________---------­
.. 
~--------­
~-----------------------------------------------------------------­
Monday, December 5, 19n

the observer 
The Symphony Orchestra 
of South Bend 
In a sense, the grandeur of the Baroque Age emerged as an awareness and recognititon of the masses: the expansion of the environmental domains of man was now clearly percieved. Urban planners were concerned with grande avenue!' and vistas. Architects sought extravagance and elegance as a "style" of monument­ality and intensity of space. In Brueghel's Wedding Dance or H. Avercamp's Wlnter­scape the emphasis is placed upon distrac­tion and disorder to express the richness and fullness of the landscape of man. 
Above all, the baroque world was fanfare, a continuous pageant and display in which the common man was an important participant. Enough of the vicarious involvement and superficial ges­tures to the individual. The Baroque was meant to be universally comprehended and accepted. So be it if the grandeur of architecture or the city is a little discomfor­table to the individual, it is meant for · everyone. 
"Music," wrote Georg Telemann, one of the Baroque giants during his day but now somewhat forgotten, "ought not to be an effort, an occult science, a sort of black magic... He who writes for the many does better than he who writes for the few." 
Telemann also advised his students to stay away from counterpoint as a replace­ment for imagination. He represents a temporary return to simplicity in still the early stages of classical music in the
f 
Western hemisphere. His music is ornamented, like an architectural facade of the style galant, its depth and richness 
-The Grandeur of the Baroque Age 
depend upon frill and embellishment ... 
Leos Janacek (1854-1928), on the other 
hand, did try to compromise between 
in~ellec~alism for the elite and the many. 
His mus1cal themes often come from his 
native Moravian dances and lore blended 
within a contemporary context.' In the 
Slnfonletta, the music is academically 
entitled with the traditional: allegretto, 
andante, moderato, allegretto, and 
andante. Janacek has also added the titles: 
fanfares, the city, cloister of the empress, 
street, and city hall. The titles symbolize 
Janacek's desire to write "for the many" 
as well as the "few". 
In the proto-Baroquish Morris Civic Auditorium, the Symphony Orchestra of South Bend performed five pieces, three from the Baroque era and two from the second decade of this century. Donald Bullock, trumpet soloist, accompanied the orchestra for Telemann's Concerto in D Major and Bach's Brandenburg Concerto No.2 in F Major. 
The evening opened with a performance of Paul Dukas' Fanfare to "La Peri". Though perhaps the weakest piece techni­cally and acoustically (and visually -they were placed behind the empty seats and stands of the strings and woodwinds sections) it was, as the program noted, a fitting opening for the brassy schedule of the evening. 
The Brandenburg Concerto No. 2, which followed, is from a series of six concertos written by Bach for Prince Leopold of Cothen. Any one of the pieces is an extraordinary work in itself; together they are a classic of form and beauty. Here Bullock, and other featured soloists from the orchestra, led the orchestra in an impressive performance, the finest diplay of the evening. Four featured soloists from the orchestra, led the orchestra in an impressive performance, the finest display 

Classical Music 
of the evening. Four featured players, standing near the front of the stage intermittently sharing solo interpretations of similar musical themes, were symboli­cally reminiscient.of popular music, or jazz, if you will, which is, by nature, a less formal affair which diminishes some of the barriers between the performer and the audience. 
Afterwards and after some movement­between-pieces-type movement, Herbert Butler stepped forward to speak to his audience. It is a delight to be spoken to by Herbert Butler, even collectively in an auditorium, for he is, or represents romantically, the true symphonic master ­eloquent and distinguished. Arthur Fiedler may enjoy a fine sense of communication with his audience, but his 
by leo c. hansen 
approach in its entirety is slightly less formal than many orchestral symphonies. The others are meant to be "stuffy" and quite rightly so. But it is a pleasure when the detachment between participator and vicarious listener is bridged, as was done in the third piece, two sonatas by Gabrieli. . Th~ ?rchesn:a was divided according to 1ts ongmal des1gn context when the pieces were first performed in St. Mark's of Venice. The upper balconies near the stage were used to house two brass sections which would compete with musical phrases and blend together to form a sort of natural stereo effect. Butler conducted the splayed orchestra from the middle of the main floor of the auditorium. In e~sence the sentiment of the baroque was displayed: such an intensity of space not merely in architectural form, but with the music itself and its meaning and feeling. 
Bullock and the orchestra then per­formed Telemann's Concerto In D ~r. as the finale and featured performance combining soloist and orchestra. After intermission, the symphony returned to perform Janacek's Slnfonletta, an extremely difficult piece for, which, accord­ing to a friend, they were least prepared. Nonetheless, the performance was very competent and a fine credit to the ability of the symphony members tso execute a piece of some difficulty, which is perhaps the ~ost critical if not the most comprehen­SIVe, of all .tests of musical ability. 
Cheech and Chong Variations on Themes 
by jon o'sulliuan 

Cheech and Chong walked onto the stage at Stepan Center Satur­day night and within the first minute had clearly set the tone for the rest of the evening's entertain­ment. One of the two long haired, hippie freak comedians grabbed the mike and made a reference to the fact that Notre Dame is going to the Cotton Bowl, that USC is going to the Tampex Bowl, and that they are going to the Smoke-a-Bowl. The crowd went wild. Cheech and Chong then took an opinion poll: "How many of you here smoke marijuana?" In reply along with screams of delight, the stage was barraged with a volley of joints thrown by the crowd. Chong promptly lit one up while Cheech asked the audience, "Now, how manyof you out there f---sheep?" The rest of the night turned out to be comic variations on those themes. 
Cheech and Chong played the audience well Saturday night and gave them what they wanted. It seemed that the crowd consisted mostly of townies and high school kids who came just to party it up on the floor of Stepan Center and to laugh at a lot of crude humor. Actually only about 700 of the estimated 2,400 there were ND­SMC students. It was sort of an audience that certainly did not demand too much sophisticated humor. So even though every one of the comedians' sketches dealt · exclusively with sex, drugs, and anything perverted, they had the crowd yukking it up constantly. 
They opened with a spoof of the movie Star Wars entitled "Queer Wars" in which the two limped wrist heroes blast off in pursuit of their arch-enemy "Anita". There were some pointless routines in which Cheec dressed in a pink tutu and Mickey Mouse ears bouncedl around the stage to taped rock music acting like a rock star named "Alice Bowie". Cheech, dressed as a nun, also conducted a sing­along in which the audience had the opportunity to add their own, usually obscene, words. But by far the cleverest sketch had Cheech picking up a total bum-out hitch­hiker, played by Chong, who inadvertently feed Cheech a whole handful of hits of acid. This skit and the many other sketches with the help of frequent costume changes 


--------~ 
Monday, DecemberS, 1977 
the obarver 
7 


On Getting Bombed 
"Wouldn't it be great if our day-care centers had all the money they needed, and the Air Force had to give a bake sale to build a bomber!" 
-A current 1graffiti 
You're not going to believe this. Most people don't. The greatest crisis facing all of us today is not energy, jobs, communism ecological imbalance, terrorism, or world hunger. All of these are critical. But the most serious issue we face is nuclear catastrophe. 
Unfortunately, most Americans refuse to believe such a horror is possible. Even though dozens of top scientists and political experts predict a nuclear war is certain in this generation, it seems too unreal for most of us. It seems Sidney Lens is probably right: ''Because of its catastrophic scope, the nuclear menace is neither believable nor believed by the general public. It has been absorbed, grain by grain, over a period of thirty years." 
We simply don't buy what someone like Norman Cousins claims: "What is now in the offing is not a war by one nation against another, but a man-made holocaust that wilLincinerate. a billion or more human 
demonstrated the comedian's abil­ity to bring life successfully on the stage their many and varied characters. 
They ended the show by crawl­ing around on all fours and sniffing the stage floor recreating their classic routine of Ralph and Herbie, the two dogs who constant­ly lust after Fifi and have a fascination for their own dog---t. All in all, the humor of their sketches was very limited, almost to the point where they relied on their crudeness for laughs. They tried to be purposely offensive, about which Chong cooly com­mented that if anyone was offend­ed by their humor, they "didn't give a s---." 
The evening started on an entire­ly different and contrasting note with the warm-up of Notre Dame's own Klee Brothers, who were a hit at last year's New Keenan Revue. The crowd was definitely not in the mood to appreciate the strong, smooth vocals of Dennis, and especially, of Doug Klee. Dennis was particularly effective with guitar on a solo in a Klee original called "Blindness". But, unfortu­nately, it was difficult to hear most of the fine acoustic guitar work above the din of the rowdy crowd who were concentrating more on partying their brains out. 
Cheech and Chong's talent really stood out when they matched two completely incompatible characters in a battle of wits. In one skit, Chong played an old, one armed bum who Is sitting on a park bench feeding a bunch of "damn pigeons" when he is interrupted by Cheech who comes strolling on stage as a hippie greaser. They immediatelylaunchecllnto a barrage of mutual abuse which is eventu­ally too much for the old man, Chong, who suddenly falls dead on the floor. Cheech then went Into his familiar spaced-out voice: "Ow wow, man, what you do that for?" 
While Cheech tended to play the 
more bizarre roles and often 
dressed in drag, Chong stayed with 
the more down to earth and 
frequently earthy characteriza­
tions. For example, Chong did a 
great little routine which was 
reminiscent of NO's recent Mid-· 
west Blues Festival. Chong played 
beings both within and without the warring nations." Or Arnold Toynbee, who surveyed tb:! rise and fall of 27 civil­izations, and said on his 75th birthday, "We are now moving into a chapter in human history in which our choice is going to be, not between a whole world and a shredded up world, but between one world and no. world.'' We find this hard to swallow. 
Yet there have been at least 13 occasions since 1950 when we almost had nuclear wars. The last near-miss was in 1973 during the Yom Kippur war, when Henry Kissinger proclaimed a worldwide nuclear alert and the• Soviets were poised to send planes to Egypt. 
Even these dangers in the past are far outweighed today as we enter the second nuclear age. By 1985 forty nations will be able to make nuclear bombs, and a decade later, 100 nations--not to mention terrorists and the Ma15a. According to our arms control director, the U.S. today is "basic­ally defenseless" against this type of proliferation. 
Tens of thousands of nuclear bombs, which can destroy the world many times over, are stockpiled and ready for use. Since Hiroshima and Nagasaki, the danger of total nuclear war has steadily increased. The people of America, the U.S.S.R., and the world ha.ve been lulled into a silent acceptance of the existence of nuclear 
a blind blu1es musician and was led out on stag·e to the microphone by a stage hand and then proceeded to make strange noises in his hands as if he had a harmonica. In this skit as well as most of the others, Cheech and Chong departed from thesure-fire humor which you can find on their albums and shifted to an emph.E~sis on more visual comedy which bordered at times on slapstick. Therefore, some of the skits did not seem as highly polished as they would have been on one of i~heir albums. 
But no matter, they were not really there to do a slick perfor­mance of anything. In fad, Cheech 
andChong seemed at times to be doing their best to gross out the audience, especially in their porno flick sketch. Chong, the working class slob,. takes his wife,cheech, again in a1 dress, to the theater. "I've never been to a porno flick before. Hey, this place's got a funny smE~II. . . sort of like wet puppies," the husband observes. 
l"t was an exercise in por tastewhich most of the audience, especially the teenagers who came to be shoc:ked, seeemed to enjoy. 
: 
:I 
v
;; 
u 
c 
.c 
0
...., 
>­
.c 
-Ill 
0 0 
.c 
Q. 
-~ 

weapons. Despite detente, despite nuclear test ban treaties, despite the continuing SALT talks, and despite President Carter's call for a single nuclear weapon eliminated by negotiated agreement. 
Experts have suggested that the survival at stake will be secured only when people in this country and throughout the world take real action to abolish nuclear weapons. I met some of these people last year here in South Bend. They were members of the Continental Walk for Disarmament and Social Justice. They were walking 3,000 miles, from San Francisco to the Pentagon, to demonstrate their concern about the fatal course our civilization has been following with respect to nuclear weapons, nuclear energy, armaments, and the general misdirection of resources. 
Selden Osborne was one of them. He walked the entire distance. He turned 67 on the way; and one of his grandchildren had been born while he was walking. He often referred to that child's birth, when people asked him why he was doing such a nutty thing. As Selden said, in an interview, "I want my new grandson to have a chance to live out his natural life. Do you really believe we can go on piling up these weapons indefinitely, all over the world, and not have some of them go off? The war may not come in my lifetime, I'm getting old, but it could end the lives of my 
by Fr. Bill Toohey 
children and grandchildren. We won't abolish nuclear weapons in my life, either, but we've got to do it in my children's lifetime. For, you see, we won't have any more time after that." 
Osborne put it very simply: ''I tell people that I'm on this walk because I'm hoping to participate in a miracle. I tell them: It will be a miracle if others follow us. Without those miracles, we're done for. Fortun­ately, miracles are possible. " 
Maybe the miracle starts when those of us who are skeptics begin to question the wisdom of our past policy of the "nuclear balance of terror" and, instead, pay heed to people like Selden Osborne who remind us that the survival of people everywhere is threatened by the international arms race and the proliferation of nuclear weapons. Another point we might reflect on: While we build new and more cost[y weapons, the needs of millions ofpeople go unmet. Only the defense contractors profit from the billions of dollars we waste on more armaments. These dollars are needed to bring about real security-the security of adequate health care, a good education, 
-decent housing, enough to eat, liveable cities, and alternate energy sources. Using our money for these needs would also help to create more jobs and reduce inflation. 
We might even listen to Isaiah: "They shall beat their swords into plowshares and their spears into pruning hooks." 
4 
l 
Monday, December 5, 1977

the observer 
CLC members announced 
[Continued from page 1] Other administrators on the CLC are Paczesny and Dean of Students James Roemer. Both Paczesny and Roemer were also members of the SLC. The faculty members have been appointed rather than elected because of the difficulty of holding formal elections by the Faculty Senate until next February. The CLC should nominally have only two faculty members, one of which would be a full-time member, and the other which would share one­third voting privileges with Roemer and Paczesny. To ease the transition of SLC to 
CLC. Paczesny decided to retain all five original faculty members of the defunct SLC until April, when elections will be held, and the CLC will be operating on a more normal basis. 
The five faculty members are: Sara Dougherty. assistant profes­sor of English; Fr. James Shilts, assistant professor of physics; Albert LeMay, assistant professor of modern languages; Paul Rath­burn, associate professor of English; and Sophie ~orczyk, assistant professor of finahce and business economics. 
Christmas plans announced 
The St. Mary's student govern­ment has announced a schedule of Christmas activities for this week. 
Today through Wednesday there 
will be a Christmas bazaar in 
LeMans lobby. On Wednesday at 
8:30 p.m. St. Mary's juniors will sing Christmas carols in each hall in the traditional "Junior Animal Walk." The "Animal Walk" is symbolic of the night when an angel directed the wandering ani­mals to the manger where Christ was born. 
On Thursday from 4:30-6: IS 
p.m. there will be a Christmas meal in the St. Mary's dining hall. The meal will feature Christmas music. and appearances by Santa Claus, Mrs. Claus, and their elves. All of the St. Mary's community are invited to this meal, including off-campus and day students free of charge. 
Thursday night will be the start of the December charity drive for Logan, sponsored by LeMans Hall. Students will be asked to donate SO cents to put their own light on a ''Tree of Lights'' in the dining hall. 
On Thursday at 7 p.m. a Christ­mas mass will be celebrated in the Church of Loretto. The service will .nclude the lighting of the Lumem Christi candle, which symbolizes the light of Christ and the coming of his birth. 
On Sunday at 8 p.m. "A Service in Lessons and Carols" will be held in the Church of Loretto. This is the .mnual Christmas concert in which .til the St. Mary's choirs perform. 
NEW IN SOUTH BEND 
COSIMO'S 
HAIR DESIGNS 
FOR MEN & WOMEN 
COSIMO, ROSE & SUE ARE YOUR HAIR DESIGNERS 
~~71:~T. call 
The council will hold at least one 
meeting before the end of the 
semester, Paczesny said, to begin 
organizational efforts. "Getting 
organized, getting the CLC on its 
feet is our first goal," he 
explained. 
"It should beremembered that the 
CLC isn't at all like the SLC. It 
isn't a legislative body. The CLC is 
here to advise the vice-president 
for Student Affairs,'' Paczesny 
said. "I would like to sit down with 
David Bender so we could come to 
some kind of conclusions for 
immediate plans. The original 
plans for the group were to think in 
terms of campus life.'' 
Social space was mentioned by Paczesny as an important topic of concern, but he said the most important concern is organization. 
"Once we get pulled together, the members will determine the direc­tion of the group,'' he said. 
Bender observed that both the alcohol and "party" policies of the University have not been dealt with in a while, and he singled out these two topics as ''two of the most immediate and obvious concerns." He also felt the CLC would deal with judicial affairs on campus, particualarly after the recent revi­sion of the University and resi­dence hall disciplinary regulations. 
"Social space is also a possible issue. The trustees made a committment to make improve­ments in the five worst halls on campus by the end of the spring semester. The CLC could direct some of this," Bender said. 
Social life is a major concern of students, Bender said, a fact which was recognized by Student Govern­ment while the social space survey was being conducted. Bender 



emphasized that social life is a 
constructive learning experience. 
"It's not just blowing off steam," 
he said. Social life should be 
looked at more in terms of personal 
and social development, according 
to Bender. 
Nickels stated that he saw the most important concern to be organization of the CLC. Andrle add_ed that the council could Jay the basts for future social achieve­ments, such as co-ed dorms or the loosening of alcohol restrictions on campus. -"If we give the students the tools to throw parties them­selves, there'll be more interest than when the Student Government organizes activities," Andrle added.
S
tudents discuss
SG C
onstitution 
A handful of students turned out last night for a public meeting held on the revisions of the Student Government Constitution. Stu­dents posed questions concerning the constitution and offered sug­gestions to the committee which has been appointed to revise the document. The committee includes Tracy Kee, executive co-ordinator of the Hall President's Council (HPC); Tom Byrne, student government press secretary; and Bill McLean, a former Ombudsman director. 
Student Government and the HPC have appointed the group to review and revise the constitution which Dave Bender, student body president, has called "an. ambi­guous and outdated document." The committee will present its revisions Tuesday at the HPC meeting in Walsh Hall. 


GRANDTOTAL~ I
: 

!I I
1 PRINT NAME 
I

I ADREss.-------------­ciTY STATE:---­I ZIP I I Please send check or money order)Fla. residents add 4 percent salesl! tax ~ 
"

! * * I
specialty shirt shoppes, Inc. 
s 7-12 ~\ 
63'1 t\\CJ ~:oe\\
"'o(\ f0° 
AFTER THE BASKETBALL GAME! Lowenbrau 25¢ 

..----SAVE THIS ONE TIME AD ___,. 
A SPEOAL CHRISTMAS GIFT FOR* NOTRE DAME FANS * 
Give yourself or friends a one of a kind present. The perfect gift for fans of any age is our souvenir edition T-shirt of the 1978 Cotton Bowl game. Our washable quality crafted T-Shirt is artfully erri>lazoned with five beautifully blended mlors that make it truly unique. Wear it oftm or save it as a collectors item. The souvenir edition insignia shown below is irrprinted permanently and enlarged to full size to civer the 
fro•• o1 each T:~hi;.GI 
~~~... 
19 78 NOTRE DAME 
vs. UNIVERSITY of TEXAS 
Optional Custom Wort<: 
. For an additional charge of 15 cents per letter, we will rtfully irrprint any message, name, nurrt>er, etc., on the ack of your shirt. For exarrple: Texas take stock ...We are 
IRISH on Cotton; Last rites for LDnghorns...Jan. 2, 1978; Have you hugged an Irish today?; Satisfied with Irish Pride; Endangered species... Longhorns; Irish ride... Longhorn's 
ide; The Irish have anived; Hooked horns make great Irish atracks; Rghtin' lrish...something to honk about; Mike...... tc. 
. Choose any above or make your own funky message(s) and rint B-1 below. FREE!!!!! FREE!!!! FREE!!!!! BUMPER STICKER WitH THE FOLLOWING CAPTION: 
~ 
STARS WAR 1978... Notre Dame v.s. Texas 
This dynamite bit of memorabilia from 1978 will be sent to 
you free of charge along with each T-shirt you purchase. 
Order extras and save as collectors items. 
r----·Mail coupon now.----, 
I gentlemen: Please rush me the following itcm(sl I have listedll 
below: . II A) Souvenir T-shirt(s) of the 1978 Cotton Bowl game at $4.9S eac!J 1 plus SO cents postage and handling charge. I understand I wili 
receive the bumper sticker(s) as stated above FI<FJ: of charge with each T-shirt I buy. I
I 

Check Size: ADULT: sm--md--lg--; CHILD: ~m--md-I LLG-;...#--SHIRTS X $S.4S = I 
I B) Optional items: I
I 1) Custom Work: All the above in A plus the following message(s)l imprinted on shirt back(s) at 1S cents per Jetter (allow maximum 3S letters for adult; 30_ for child). For bulk orders attach a listing ofl
I1 essages. Please pnnt: ------------------i
I -----------------AMOUN~---1 
I #--lottm x .15 ~ 
I 

I 2) Extra bumper stickers at SO cents each. I I I 
Mon-Sat 8 to b i TUESDAY NIGHT! 
--•Allow two wooh fo<ddivory ___.. 
tNext to tbt! Distille~ Mixed Drinks so~ Pitchers $1.50 
,.•' .•. ... ..: ~ ..:.· ...' .... 



Monday, December 5;~1977 
the observer 
ND Security 

Rape call termed a 'hoax' 
Lemans Christmas Spirit bursts forth in the familiar scent to anyone who has ever strung lights on a tree. [Photo by john Calcutt] 
't:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=::::::::::::::::t' who were walking in the area, 
RA oositions open to SMC sophs, juniors 
by Mary Leveno 
Sophomores and juniors from 
St. Mary's desiring to become resident advisors should initiate the applicatory prQcess soon. In addition to filing an application, two recommendations are required from one of St. Mary's faculty members or administrators. 
The applicant must also obtain a recommendation from a student who is currently a resident advisor. The recommendations must be turned in by Jan. 20, when they will be put on file in the Counseling Center along with all other material the applicant has submitted. 
In addition to the written materi­
al a student must submit, it is 
necessary to attend a number of 
open houses, as well as a series of 
interviews. One of the interviews 
consists of a meeting with the 
resident advisor selection commit­
tee, composed of two current RA's, 
in which six or seven girls are 
individually evaluated. Interviews 
must also be scheduled with hall 
directors, who play an important 
part in the selection process be­
cause they also write an evaluation 
of the applicant. 
The process of becoming an RA 
is based on a points system. 
Students obtaining a high number 
of points are immediately chosen as 
RA's and are able to choose the hall 
in which they want to live. Students 
who are awarded a low number of 
points may either be put in a hall 
which has an opening, or be placed 
on a waiting list. 
Decisions will be made by next 
March. Two cuts will be made, to 
arrive at the final decision. Renee 
Orfei, a resident advisor in Holy 
Cross Hall commented, "Qualities 
which should be apparent in a 
resident advisor are friendliness, 
responsibility and the capacity to 
be an empathetic listener. The job 
can be time consuming, but the 
students are fun and the position is 
rewarding." 
TV magician to follow ceremony 
Dick Stoner, a professional magician, wiii perform in the LaFortune ballroom following the tree lighting ceremony outside LaFortune tomorrow at 7 p.m. Stoner regularly appears on "Bozo's Circus," a children's pro­gram on WGN-Chicago. 
by Bob Varettoni Senior Staff Reporter 
An anonymous telephone call reporting a possible rape on the Notre Dame campus last Friday night was called a "hoax" by a spokesman from ND Security. 
A male telephone caller, who refused_to_.give his name, called the St. Joseph County Police at 8:30 
p.m. on Friday, according to James Roemer, ND dean of students. 
Roemer said the caller claimed he ''had seen a man pull a woman off the path between the cemetery and the University Village in what looked like a possible violent incident.'' 
The county sheriff called ND Security. Roemer added, and "within minutes" two ND security officers arrived at the scene in a car. They spent over one half hour searching the area, he said. 
Roemer noted that there was snow on the ground, and that the security officers "found no foot­prints outside the main path. This indicated that no one had been 
pulled off to the side of the path." The security offkers then ques­tioned people who lived nearby or 

Roemer said. No one they ques­way of getting further knowledge.'' tioned knew anything about the A spokesman from the office of reported incident. the South Bend detective chief said that a report of the incident had 
''To our knowledge, there was no 
been made, ''but there wasn't any rape situation that happened," evidence to prove that anything
Roemer said. "And we have no happened." 
..1.oil:"Liii~ BMl1 IsP 
R·DT·IIT·SIT 1MB I,II,Ill·ECFMI·FLEI·RE 
NAT'L DENTAL BOARDS • NURSING BOARDS Fle•lble Prog,.... a Houra 
nereJS• dj«nntcettl 
For Information Please Clll: Collect 
l~ 
West Lafayette EDUCATIONAL CENTEII 463-7541 TEST "'I"IIRATION 
SP£CIALISTS SINCE l!t38 

Serving BlooJ!lington, lndianBPQlls,. South 
.Bend . For Locations in other ·citlei 
Outside N.Y. State Only CALL TOll FIE£: 100.223-1712 
Ctntel1 In MaJor US Cities Toronto, Puerto Rico 1nd Lupno, Swlt!trflnd 
-CLASSES NOW FORMING 
f'!r LSAT GRE &. GMAT 
FOR THE PERFECT FRIEND AT A PERFECT PRICE 
All national name brands 

ssoo VALUE ONLY $129 
• • • • each 
AVAILABLE AT 

NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
,• .. ~ "' ...... ·... • + •••• ._. • ...-: ; .. .. ....... •· 
; I 

r 

PLO Against Negotiations 
TRIPOLI* Llbya[AP)·Palestinian common stand to counter Egyptian PLO's refection of the U.N. resolu­leaders declared a new hard line President Anwar Sadat's trip to tions, tipped the scales toward against negotiations with Israel Jerusalem and his drive to start compromise on the issue of forming yesterday and demanded that the peace talks with the Israelis. a front. Arab leaders meeting here end Concerence sources said efforts In Cairo, Sadat said in an their bickering and form a "Stead· to form a solid front against Egypt interview with the Associated Press fast" front against Egyptian peace have dragge<t on through 18 hours that the Soviet Union was behind moves. of formal t.!alks and many more the Tripoli meeting. The Tripoli 
The tough statement issued at individual meetings because of Egyptian leader said attempts to a news conference reflected angry Iraqi insistence on rejecting U.N. mount an economic boycott against 
impatience at delays in the five­Security Council Resolution 242 Egypt or to isolate him in the Arab nation summit caused mainly by and 339. Those resolutions form world "does not raise any concern discord between president Hafez the basis for American-led efforts for us." Assad of -Syria and Iraqi delegation to resume, the Geneva peace He said the Soviet Union can be headed by Foreign Minister Saad­conference, which has been re­punished for its role in the reject­oun Hamadi. cessed since December 1973. ionist summit here. He would not 
"We the PLO, in all its factions, Iraqi sources said after yesterday describe what steps he was consi­demand formation of a front of afternoon's three hour session they dering, but Cairo has already steadfastness and confrontation had received clearance from Bagh­recalled its ambassador from Mos­comprising Algeria, Libya, Syria, dad to soften demands. A late cow. South Yemen and Iraq,"said the night session was scheduled for But the Palistinian initiative PLO statement,naming the coun­what the sources said would be itself was a compromise between tries participating in the meeting. signing of a final agreement. hard-line and moderate faction. 
''This front should confront all ''The Iraqi problems have been In return for backing the Syrian surrender solutions and imperial­resolved," said Algerian Foreign position at the conference, hard­ism and Zionism, as well as their Minister Abdulaziz Bouteflika. line Parlestinians won the toughSaturday, Century Center was the site of another Notre Dame tools in the Arab world." "They have been settled in a new anti-negotiation stance. 
formal. The Junior class formal attracted more elegantly clad 
Leaders of the five countries and positive' way." Since moderation was forced on couples than ever before. [Photo by John Calcutt] PLO chief Y asir Arafat have been Palestinian sources said their him by guerrilla defeat inthe trying since Thursday to reach a declaration, which reaffirmed the 1975-76 Lebanese civil war, Arafat 
~----------------------~------------------------~ r---------------------------, has expressed willingness to attend Geneva peace talks. The new declaration specifically ruled out this possibility. 
That move was regarded as a major victory for the "rejection front'' headed by George Habash of· the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine. His Marx­ist group rejects any negotiations with Israel and calls for disman­tling the Jewish state. 
SMC protests ticket allocation 
[Continued from page 1) allocation can be found. As mem­bers of the ND-SMC community the women of, St. Mary's College feel the present policy cuts deeply into the spirit and morale of this community." The petition will not have an effect on this year's season basket­ball tickets, but is an effort to prevent future problems in the distribution of tickets. Amy Hart­zell commented, "We find this year's distribution of tickets very upsetting. We don't want this to happen again in basketball, or in any other sport.'' 
In Sportsaaft
NOW AVAILABLE at THE HAMMES 
at S r1 Center 
NOTRE DAME ·BOOKSTORE 
*think snow
~ski shops, inc. 272-5300 51400 us 31 
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 46556 




,'.j .•

L____________________________________________________________. 
--~--------~-------------­
Monday, Decembers; 19n 
the observer 11 
Irish icers much improved 
[Continued from page 12] 
wondering how the puck got behind him. Weltin passed to Fairholm, got a return pass from Fairholm 
and then finally slipped the hot potato back to Fairholm "The Wizard" who flipped in his first goal of the year to give him sole possession of tenth place on the career scoring list. But the lead was too good to be true for the Irish. 
It was here that referees John Bymark and John Ricci took matters into their own hands and out of Notre Dame's. First a bench penalty for too many men on the ice was called by the linesman who isn't allowed to make calls in the WCHA except for offsides viola­tions. Then Michigan Tech fans screamed for a call and got it when Jeff Brownschidle protected him­self from a charging Gord Salt who ran into the freshman defenseman from seven strides away. Paul Jensen scored on the power play for Tech and then Greg Hay took advantage of a defensive lapse to beat John Peterson on a break­awya. Dana Decker scored on the power play again with Dan Byers in the box on another dubious c:all and the Irish had lost control of the game. Before it was over Tech had 13 power play opportunities and the Irish couldn't get back on track against those odds. Michigan added four more goals ot make the final score 7-1. 
The Irish will be going after their second straight seep at home this 
1 
II 

*Observer 
Sports 
NOTICES 

Neat, accurate typing of term papers or manuscripts. Call: 287-5162. 
NEED QUALITY TYPING? Executary, Inc. ProfessiOnal Typing Service IBM Correcting Selectrics. 85 cents per page, mm1mum. Call 232·0898 "When you want the best." 
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND Student Loans, $20·$150. One day wait. One percent interest due in 30 days. LaFortune basement, M·F, 11 :15·12:15. Last day for loans this semester· Dec. 14. 
TENNIS PROS AND ASSISSTANT PROS · Seasonal and year·round clubs· good playing and teaching background: Call 301·654·3770, or send two complete resumes and two pictures to: Col. R. Reade, W. T.S.. 8401 Connecticut Ave Suite 1011, Chevy Chase. MD. 20015.., 
EXPERIENCED TYPISTS: For more information call 272·2819. 
FOR RENT 

Apartment for rent:..2or 3 persons........ $165 or 180 per month with utilities. Two miles from campus; seniors or grad students.. 289-5215 after 11 pm. 
Two rooms in student house for second semester. Close to campus. Share rent and utilities. Call 288·0088. 
LOST AND FOUND 

LOST: 'One SR-207 calculator in O'Shag on Tuesday, Nov. 29, rm 342. Great sentimental value...Call Mike 8742. 
LOST: Beige raincoat, Morrissey formal. I have yours. Call 5463. 
LOST: Tan wallet before break. If found call Jim, 8403. 
FOUND: Set of keys. Call 8227 to identity. 
FOUND: Student basketball ticket. Identity at 8227. 
LOST: One silver pendant with turquoise stone and chain. Lost between LeMans and cafeteria. Great sentimental value. If found call -4-4563. 
LOST: Two silver rings; one is a wedding ring with the inscription "To RMF from JEP..9-20" ....the other has two silver balls on it. Will sell soul for return. Please contact Theresa at 1880 -226 Lewis. 
LOST: Texas Instruments calculator, Tl ­50A in rm 118 Nieuwland wed. 11-16. Please return to Tom, Ph 6713. 
LOST: One blue ski jacket at 101 party. Please call Charles Wolf, 233-fi773. 
LOST: Pair wire-rim glasses in vicinity of Dillon Fri. night. If found, please call 288-2456. 
LOST: Dark green down ski parka taken at Stepan Center during Blues Festival. If seen or feeling guilty, call ,lohn 6764. 
~ease, H'sc~do~~e~! 
FOUND: One umbrella. Call Pete: 288-2688. 
LOST: Would the person who took green army coat from Library bar t:hurs. night please return it. 8676. Reward. 
FOUND: Pair glasses near Fr. Sorin statue. Silvber metal fra•11es, tinted lenses, Bausch and Lomb case. Call 1733. 
LOST: Over 7 days ago, Texas Instru­ments SR-51-11 calculator. Urgently needed. Call 1479. 
FOR SALE 

1971 Capri. 89,000 mi., runs well must sacrifice, $450. Call 4438. ' 
Remington upright typewriter, Large ca~nage, regular plus one row of engine· enng keys and symbols. Good condiition. 
$75. Call 234-0790. 
WHY PAY MORE?? Flanne:r Records has all $6.981ist lp's for only $4.50. All $7.98 list lp's only $5.29. Over 400 albums in stock. Phone orders accepted. FLAN· NER RECORDS* 322 Flanner, phn. 2741. 
Hours; M·Th, 4·5, 6:30-8. Sundays, 2-3:30. 
Sansuii receiver, 100 watts. needs work. Teac reel to reel. Pioneer speakers Garrard turntable. Must Silll, separate or together. 8338. 
Owner moving, must sell mint condition Gulbransen Organ, church or home use. Phone 234-9759. 
WANTEC· 

N D student would like to sub-let Campus yiew apt. Call 277·2552. 
HELP! NO guy must learn ballroom dance. John, 1380. 
Need roommate to share apartment at Crestwood second sem1Jster (two miles from campus). Call Vince at 288·1259 between 11 and midnight. 
Two tickets to Lafayette B-ball. Call Tim at 8596. 
Need post-finals ride to Northern Louisi-. an_a. or nearby. Will share expenses, dnvmg. Call Scott, 77111. 
Female student lookinq for apartment or house to share near "capus for second semester. Call Gail, 21:14-4523. 
weekend against North Dakota with 
· face-off scheduled for 7:30 pm Friday and Saturday. 
f:loopsters claim third straight win 
. htl , [Continued from page 12]
Itg y. 
. Tripucka, the game's second htgh scorer with 19 markers, stated, "I think they just played a smart game, it kept them close." 
Batton, the other Irish co-cap­tain, didn't think the 2-3 zone employed by Valparaiso made much difference. "After some shots were hit from the outside," Batton said, "things opened up underneath." 
The Irish face a rigorous sche­dule during the upcoming week. They encounter Lafayette on Mon­day at home, travel to Northwes­!ern on Wednesday, and then Journey to the coast to face UCLA. "This schedule," said Flowers, "is really tough with all the tests and p~pers that we have: coming up. Dtgger gave us a day off last week to catch up, but even that isn't quite enough. But I'm still looking forward to playing UCLA. It'll probably be a typicl Notre Dame­UCLA game." 
Tonight's game against Lafa­yette is scheduled for 8pm in the ACC. 


Don "The Wi~ard,'' Fai~h~lm led the Fighting Irish hockey te~m·to a 4:3, 1-7 spht w1th M1ch1gan Tech this weekend. Fairholms one ass1st a~d one go.al p«:rformance moved him into tenth place on the NO all-hme scormg hst. 
OASSIRED 

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Need ride from So. Florida to Cotton Bowl and-or ride to So. Florida for Christmas. Call Pat, 3385. 
Need ride to Texas; Dallas, Houston or San Antonio, or Austin. Share expenses and driving. 2942. 
PERSONALS 
Female student wanted to share large . home w1th teacher.....excellent neighbor­hood, near Scottsdale Mall. 289-4514. 
J.E.B. Thanks for the long awaited date. If you don't remember, call 3521. Edgar 
To twits of Sarin: Coming --Abuse like never before. Laura 
Thanx to my roomies and friends for the best birthday ever. Yes Arnold and Waldorf, that includes you too. 
Malice 
Need ride to Cleveland on Dec. 14, 15, or 
16. Call Kathy, 1264. 
"Torpedoes" Peralta ­
Your ensign's uniform is not ~egulation. Since when does the navy 1ssue tutlenecks for submarine duty? 
Nautilus 
A special Happy Birthday to Bill Fuller. Love, "D. Mom" 
Wally Stumpf for little Miss Paddlefish. 
Happy 22nd birthday, Diane, . You may be getting older, but you are still ugly. Love, your four year roomie, Barbara 
Happy Birthday, Diane. With Love, Greg 
A~other happy birthday personal for D1ane....... Happy Birthady, Diane! Love, Jan, Kate and Barbara 
UGLY-When I take pictures of you on your birthday, I'll try not to drop the camera!!!! 
Joan 
To the Ugliest roomate we've evr had: Happy 22nd birthday! Love, the "Fresmen" Barbara, Sally &Druz 
To one of the inticate members of the ALA, 
Hope you get "ho-kow" on your 22nd birthday. Do you understand? Your annex-mates, . lck, Gross, Bong breath, No-problem, Pmg Pong, and Snow shoes. 

Diane • If you get sick after drinking tonight, buy a used barf bag from me. 
No· Problem!! 
HP-Happy 21st birthday! The first Zombie is on me! Mary Tudor 
Shell, You make an excellent Lady Anne. You're a doll Eva PS: How's your bones? 
M· 

Two and a quarter today: Thanks for everything! ILYMB!J 
Digger: Make Daisy happy· Play Tim Healy. A Heels fan 
.. ...and that's YOU Kurt. Never kid a kidder. 
Leroy, 

You are the one who makes my heart go pitter·patter and my eyes so blue. You make my day complete-I love you, 
Gertrude 
Hey 0-BUD, 

How many days does Lavender have left? 
Vote Martha for Little Miss Blowfish!!! 
Fat Boy's friend's birthday is December 18. 
Brian: . Don't forget we're bowl bound. See ya mTexas on New Year's Eve. 
Tina, Chris and Texas 
Dear Archway How does your dog like to be awakened in the morning. An Anxious Irishman 
Happy Birtnday Diane! Go out and get bombed on Bocadillos tonight. 
To: The Columbian Bible Freak Break a leg. Love, The five fat horny little pigs 
Happy Birthady, Frank.... From Bakers 
Diane Bogest for Little Miss Paddlefish. 
Merry Christmas Sara and Joe "cool" Happy Birthady Bosco Joe..(You'll miss the shower this year)! Miss you both! 
Jo: Steve, Gary, Monica, Phred, Fish, Laune, Paul, Mike, Nancy Anne Paul "the Freshman", etc. ' ' Jim, Jose, and Johnny J. 
Sorry I missed your birthday. Hope you, A[ Had a nice one, and B[ Can still remember It! 
M 

Off-Campus hockey practice on Tuesday December 6th, 9:30 at Howard Park Ice Rink. Any questions call Joe 288-2688, or Greg 233-6773. 
Need ride to Des Moines area after 10 pm Dec. 20th. Call Nancy, 4375. 
Julio's has an opening for delivery personel either Sat. or Sun. or both days available. From 5 pm to 2 am. M*ust have own car. Gauranteed $3 per hour plus tips. Call 233·2354. 
STUDS: 
Your surprise party Thursday overwhelmed me. Since I didn't get to see all of you individually, I'll use this to thank each of you parsonally for a memorable Thursday evening. I'll never forget lt. I appreciate your generosity and I treasure your friendship. Stanford is, and always will remain, 11. Thanks again. 
Father Dick 

Happy birthday, Diane, with love, Greg 
Another happy birthday personal for Diane -Happy Brithday, Diane Love, Jan, Kate &Barbara 
UGLY -when I take pictures of you on your birthday I'll try not to drop the camera!! Joan 
To the ugliest roommate we've every had: Happy 22nd birthday! Love, "The Freshmen' Barbara, Sally & Druz 
Ton one of the Intrlcate members of the ALA, hope you get "ho-kow" on your 22nd birthday. Do you understand? You annex-mates, lck, Gross, Bong-breath, No-problem, Ping Pong, and Snowshoes. 
Diane -If you get sick after drinking tonight, but aused barf bag from me. NO PROBLEM!!! 
Happy 22nd birthday, Diane, you may be getting older, but. you're still ugly. Love, your 4-year room1e, Barbara 

J J 
~-.------~--~--~--------------~-------------------------------------------------------­
12 the observer ~y, Dec_ein~ s; 197t 
Irish cagers, gridders capture wins 


ND breezes by Hurricanes, 48-1·0 
by Paul Stevenson Sports Editor 
Miami -Ten minutes into Satur­day night's contest, it appeared as 
• 

if Notre Dame would blow the 
Hurricanes right out of the Orange 
Bowl. But, not until the second 
half did the Irish Jearn to weather 
the storm and knock the wind out of 
the Hurricanes, 48-10. 
Notre Dame reached the score­
board first at the 6:05 mark of the 
opening period. Miami quarter­
back Kenny McMillian faded back 
to pass, but the Hurricane signal 
caller was smothered by Willie Fry 
and coughed up the football upon 
contact. Bob Golic recovered for 
Notre Dame at the Miami 11 and 
two plays later, Vagus Ferguson 
scampered over left tackle for the 
score. 

On the Hurricanes ensuing pos­
session, McMillian dropped into 



the pocket to throw again. Fry was • 
there for the second straight time. 
The Irish defensive end hit McMil­
lian as the Miami quarterback was 
in the midst of throwing. The ball 
tloated into the arms of Irish Luther Bradley became the Notre Dame career record holder forlinebacker Leroy Leopold who gal­interceptions as he snagged two errant aerials in the 48-10 Irishlopped 17 yards for the second Notre victory.
Dame tally. 

But, the Hurricanes would not be Notre Dame recieved the second second half while the Irihs man­out-done, at least not yet. Irish half kickoff and rambled 77 yards aged 16. quarterback Joe Montana passed to for an Irish touchdown. The drive Luther Bradley established a Ferguson who fumbled the ball took 13 plays and 4:52 off the clock. team record, snagging two inter­
when tackled. Miami recovered at The scoring march was · a fine ceptions in the contest to give him 
the Notre Dame 20 and six plays combination of running and pas­17 for his career. Bradley sur­later, the Hurricanes reached the sing, displaying Notre Dame's 
passed Tim McDonald who had 15 scoreboard on a 38 yard field goal offensive talents for the first time · snatches from 1961-63. by Chris Dennis. in the ball game. The 1977 Notre Dame football 
On their next possession, Miami Notre Dame tallied again on their teani threw 297 passes this year,tallied again. This time the next two possessions, marking more than any Irish team in Hurricanes covered 53 yards in five 
drives of 61 and 63 yards. The history. The old record of 283 plays, highlighted by a 35 yard two scores gave the Irish a com­passes was established in 1970. touchdown pass from McMillian to manding lead and marked the 
Dave Reeve ended up his regular Steve Alvers. The point after entrance of the Notre Dame reser­season career three points shy of 
narrowed Notre Dame's lead to 
ves. tying the all-time Notre Dame 14-iO. The first of the two touchdowns scoring leader, Red Salmon. Reeve However, the Irish scored once · came on Dave Mitchell's one yard finished second with 247 points. again before intermission, driving burst off left tackle. The second 
Jerome Heavens had exactly38 yards in two plays. On the first score came on a spectacular catch 1000 yards this season, but lost six pattern, Montana connected with by Ken MacAfee. The Montana yards on his last carry to end theKris Haines for a 15 yard aerial aerial was deflected by free safety year with 994. Heavens carried thecompletion. Then, on the next Bryan Ferguson but MacAfee jug­ball 229 times this season, fourplay, Montana tossed to Ferguson gled the ball and hauled it in for the short of the record set by AI Hunter

for the remaining 23 yards and a touchdown. last year. Notre Dame score. The conversion The final Irish score came with This Notre Dame team scored was blocked as the Irish led 20-10 7:34 left in the game when Rusty 382 points, a modern footballat half time. Lisch plowed over from the one. 
record according to the NCAA.

In the first half, Miami reg­The 73 yard drive was highlighted That mark exceeded the 376 point istered ten first downs, while the by Jerome Heavens' 18 yard sprint total set by the 1968 team. TheIrish managed only six. The off right tackle and 25 yard gallop · overall mark of 389 points was setHurricanes had 147 yards in total around left end. Reeve's conver­by the 1912 squad. 
offense, while Notre Dame com­sion brought the score to the final Leroy Leopold now has returnedpiled only 113. mark of 48-10. 
three interceptions for touchdowns, The Irish relied heavily on their Notre Dame amassed 404 yards tying him for the Notre DameJefense in the first half, and in total offense while the Hur­record in that category with Tomalthough the defense remained ricanes managed only 128, only 28 Schoen.

stalwart, the offense opened up. on the ground. The Irish accounted Thus, Notre Dame tallied 21 third for 11 tackles for a negative 97 The Irish now prepare for their quarter points while holding Miami yards. The Hurricanes were also clash with top-ranked Texas on 
scoreless to surge to a 41-10 lead. held without a first down in the January 2. 
NO pucksters split series 
by Chip Scanlon seconds gone in the stanza. Decker for tenth place on the career 
Sports Writer broke in all alone and drilled a shot scoring list. 
high to the stick side to beat Aggressive forechecking set up 

Lefty Smith's Irish icers continu­Moher. the next Irish score when winger ed to gain momentum as they won But the emerging Irish cannon Steve Schneider dug the puck out their third consecutive victory from the point, co-captain Dick from behind the net with a Tech against the Michigan Tech Huskies Howe, scored his second goal in as defenseman hanging all over him 4-2, before falling to the Huskies in many games to regain the lead for and fed a pass to sophomore center a penalty riddled game on Saturday the Irish at 1:48 and the Irish were Tom Micalek. Michalek wasted no night, 7-1. Notre Dame now off and running. Howe picked up time in lifting a backhander by returns home to host the North the puck after Donny Fairholm had Rockwell to a short side opening ot Dakota Fighting Sioux in their final his bid blocked and fired it between all of eight inches. series at home before Christmans Rockwell's pads to put the Irish For the rest of the contest it wa~ vacation. ahead to stay. all Len Moher who made 25 save 
Friday night the Irish continued With Len Moher having what in the last two periods while th, their surge in the standings as they Lefty Smith termed "an exception­Irish fell back into defensiv(:
a jumped out to a 1-0 lead on a goal al night in the nets" and the shell. Moher finished with 39 stops by Kevin Nugent and then never Huskies becoming more and more while Rockwell had 17 saves, five in 
relinquished the lead. In a tight frustrated, Tech defenseman Tim the last two periods. 
checking first period both Tech and Watters went off for hooking and Saturday night's game lookedthe Irish weathered a power play by Notre Dame's power play went to like another good outing for theeach other with Irish goalie Len work. The work payed off when Irish. Notre Dame was takingMoher and his Huskie counterpart Nugent scored his second goal of advantage of tough defense andJohn Rockwell foiling several the night with assists going to Don scored at the other end of the icescoring opportunities. Fair holm and Jeff Brownschidle. It when Don Fairholm and Ted Welt­Michigan Tech didn't waste any was Fairholm's third assist of the zin worked a pretty passing play totime in the second period, evening game and his 13th assist of the leave netminder Bruce Horschthe score when Dana Decker scored year, tying him with' former Irish [Continued on page 11]on a breakaway with just 49 All-American Jack Brownschidle 
Valparaiso proves to be tough test 
by Tony Pace ledger, Ashby led the first half 
Sports Writer scoring with 11 points, while Kizer 
1 had eight. The Crusaders shot 

The Notre Dame basketball team 52%in the first stanza. captured their third victory of the In the second half, after the two young season by defeating a stub­teams had traded baskets, Notre born Valparaiso squad, 89-75, Sat­Dame ran off a streak of ten urday at the ACC. unanswered points. Williams, 
The Irish started the game Batton and Flowers, who had a quickly, racing to and 11-0 lead perfect five for five day from the after only four minutes of play. field, all contributed to this streak. This early barrage was keyed by This surge gave the Irish a 56-37 guard Don "Duck" Williams. The lead. Wahington, D.C. native scored For the next five minutes, the seven of the first 11 points on two two teams played one another fairly long range jump shots and a evenly. Both teams worked for driving lay up which he converted their shots and the shooters were for a three point play. accurate. 
After Valparaiso had tallied their A beautiful rebound goal by first four points of the game, Notre Tripuckawith 11:40 left to play in Dame strung together eight unan­the game gave the Irish their swered markers. The last two of biggest margin of the afternoon at these, a Bruce Flowers dunk after a 20 points and the score stood at pass from Dave Batton, gave the 68-48. Irish a commanding 19-4 lead. However, the Valparaiso team 
However, the Crusaders contin­did not fold at that point as Notre ued to slow the tempo of the game Dame's two previous foes, Missis­using a deliberate offense and a 2-3 sippi and Baylor, had done. Using zone defense. These tactics and all of their offensive weapons, even the fine outside shooting of Val­their defensive minded guards paraiso forwards Tim Kizer and Grag Dobbs and Tim Hostetler, the Darryl Ashby helped the Crusaders Crusaders ran off and 18-5 streak to from falling further behind the put themselves right back into the Irish. ga"me. With well over six minutes 
At the 5:39 mark of the first half remaining, they trailed the Irish by with Notre Dame leading 36-20, only seven points, 73-66. Irish coach Digger Phelps inserted That was as close as the Crusa­Tracy Jackson and Orlando Wool­ders were to get, however, as the ridge into the lineup to join fellow Notre Dame front line of Batton, freshmen Stan Wilcox, Golberto Bill Laimbeer and Flowers each Salinas and Kelly Tripucka. This scored an unanswered field goal to marked the first time this season stretch the lead back to 13 points. that all five freshmen were on the And, in the waning moments of the court at the same time. game, Valparaiso lost both Ashby 
The frosh played the rest of the and Hostetler as they fouled out. first half, but they were outscored The game's final points came on a 11-8 by the Crusaders in that span. dunk by the Crusaders' Kipfer Tripucka continued his fine offen­whcih made the final score 89-75. sive showing during this period by After the game Phelps praised scoring six of the eight points the Crusaders' play saying, "You scored by the frosh team. For have got to have a lot of respect for Valparaiso, it was again their front Valparaiso. They played a control line which did the bulk of the game, eating up time. But even so, scoring, Frowards Kizer and We still got our 89 points. Ashby and center Max Kipfer "We needed a game like this. scored none of the 11 Crusader Everybody will try to shoot for us points. The Irish led at the half because of the high pre-season · 44-31. ranking. We didn't have that 
For Notre Dame, Williams had exposure in the early part of last 15 first half points on seven of eight year." shooting from the floor. Tripucka N.D. co-captain Williams, who added 13 markers on four for four finished with a game high of 20 shooting. Overall the Irish shot points, said, "A game like this 64%in the first half. shows that we can't take anyone 
On the Valparaiso side of the [Continued on page 11] 

l. 
t 










