
The Observer 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's Vol. XI, No. 88 Friday, February 25, 1977 
CIA grants termed 'tradition' 
BROOKLINE, Mass. [AP] • Con­victed Watergate burglar and former CIA agent E. Howard Hunt says giving money to foreign governments, like the reported grants to Jordan's King Hussein, is "an honored tradition within the CIA." 
He said at a news conference yesterday that he made substantial cash payments to government in Japan, Mexico and Uruguay while working as a CIA station chief. 
''The payments to foreign gov­ernments or to specific sections of their national police or clandestine service is a long and honored tradition within the CIA,'' Hunt said. "There is certainly nothing illegal about this." 
Hunt did not say_ how much money was involved, where it came from, or who received it. 
Hunt, 58, made the comments at his first 'news conference since leaving the federal prison at Eglin Air Force Base, Fla., Wednesday. 
The session was held at the suburban Boston office of his booking agent, who will oversee a series of lecture tours Hunt has planned. 
Hunt served 32 months in prison after pleading guilty to conspiracy, burglary and illegal wiretapping in the 1972 break-in at Democratic national headquarters in the Wash-

DOONESBURY 
ANO TH&N YOU ~.1'f 
6&7 UP ANO STR13TOI ' '\\ UK& A CAT IN Ff<ONT OF ' THe BAY IA!INOOIAI, lffi!NG-~ THe SUN WARM YOUR. ~ 
SMO(Jffl, /..!TTte BCUY.. r;•
-. \ 
>-::., 
,r£':, fl 
by Garry Trudeau 
YOU SIIOUl{) S/3e YOURSEL-F IN THe Merm­IN6, JeN! 'fO(JAtti!AYS ti/AKC UP tu!TH THe MOSTINCRE0­/8lY /AJISTFU/.. SM/I.E ON 
YOl/R FAC& ... 
' 
ANO THEN I {3() INTO lH& 8ATHI?I)OM ANOTHROW 
lll~ . I 

ington, D.C., Watergate complex. 
He said he assumed the pay­ments, which he called "sub­sidies,'' were made in exchange for cooperation with the CIA. 
"When I was chief of station abroad in many areas, it was common for me to pay substantial figures to government persons of the local host government,'' Hunt said. "I certainly supported Uru­guayan intelligence, the Mexican intelligence service--they have six or seven different ones--and the Japanese at one period." 
Hunt compared his role in the Watergate burglary to his earlier job as a CIA officer. 
"My involvement at Watergate was solely a continuum of my years in the CIA in which I followed the orders of my superiors," he said. 
Hunt, who recruited the break-in team, said he had been instructed to "phetograph anything with a number on it." 
He said he did not deal with then President Richard M. Nixon and top White House advisers, but assumed from the amount of money involved in the case that the Watergate break-in "was a White House-approved activity." 
Hunt said he feels "a pretty good amount of bitterness'' toward Judge John Sirica, who sentenced him, and White House officials who he said tried to save themselves after his career was ruined. 
"I paid my price for Watergate in sorrow and lost, wasted years, in tragedy, ridicule and humiliation," Hunt said. "I feel no public act of contrition can be required of me." 
Nixon could have averted "the horrendous tragedy" of Watergate by admitting soon after the break­
. in that the men involved worked for him in what he thought was a good cause, Hunt said. · 
"The break-in itself was a minor legal problem," he said. "It was the hysteria afterward that bal­looned this into a major interna­tional tragedy." 
Attempt fails ~ 
for trip rebate 
at St. Mary's 

Because only one third of the St. Mary's seniors who went on the senior class trip signed the rebate petitions, St. Mary's senior class officers have decid­ed to keep the money in the class treasury. 
By midnight Wednesday night, the deadline, only three petitions containing 42 signa­tures were turned in to Cindy Callahan, senior class presi­dent. 
"Because we didn't require a mandate or referendum, we needed at least one half of the seniors to-sign," Cu!lahan said. "We gave them the opportunity to challenge our decision, but we didn't get enough to chal­lenge it.'' 
Callahan emphasized that she was not influenced by the decision of Notre Dame's senior class officers. "Even though the outcome was the same, we considered St. Mary's separate­ly," she said. 

:Junior Parents Weekend: 
• Junior Parents Weekend is • scheduled to begin tonight with a • 
• 

Kickoff Cocktail Party in the main 
• 
concourse of the ACC. The follow-• • ing is a complete schedule of the • 

• 
weekend's events. 

• 
Friday


• 

-2 p.m. Registration -LaFortune
•

• 
Center -till 8 p.m. • -8 p.m. Kickoff Cocktail Party 

• 
Concourse of ACC 

• 
Saturday


• 

-9 a.m. Registration -LaFortune
• 

• Center -till 1 p.m. 
• 
Student • • -Main • 
Student • • 
• -9 a.m. Collegiate Workshops -till 11:30 -• 
Individual College Buildings • 
-1 p.m. Basketball Game -ACC (N.D. vs. • • ~~ll~ • • -1 p.m. Slide Presentation (Life at N.D.) -• 
Library Auditorium -continuous • showings • • -6:30p.m. Junior Class Mass -Sacred Heart •
. . 
-8 p.m. Presidential Dinner -Stepan Cen-• 
• ter
• ~~ •
• Sunday • 
• -8:30a.m.. Closing Breakfast -North Dining • • Hall -Featuring guest speaker Tom • • Pagna • 
• Any junior who has not yet • 
• received their tickets for this 
weekend, can get duplicate tickets • • when they register. • 

Mardi Gras termed financial, social success 
by Janet Libert 
Mardi Gras 1977 was a financial and social success, according to Chairman Don Bishop. The week­long carnival held in Stepan Center beginning Feb. 11 made between $24,000 and $25,000; according to estimates by Bishop. 
''We barely beat last year but we do have $2,000 in assets," he stated; "so that next year's expen­ses will be a lot less. We are pleased with the profits but they're not the most important thing. It was more of a social event where people came to have a good time." 
Raffle Co-Chairmen Claire Boast and Beth Delucianey report that ticket sale totaled $16,000 after the two-dollar refund for those who sold a complete book of tickets. "We were impressed with the sales. Students responded well.'' 
St. Ed's Hall received the $100 cash prize for the best dorm ticket sales with 76 percent. This year St. Mary's students participated in ticket sales for the first time. Hopefully next year, Delucianey said, off-campus and graduate students will also be able to sell tickets. 
Other organizations were involv­ed in ticket distribution as well, including a South Bend woman who sold $1,000 worth oftickets. 
The carnival. including admis­sion and concessions, brought in $32,500. Costs, which covered en­tertainment, building materials, tools, electricians' fees, security, the car and the television, totaled $22,000. 
"$2,000 more was spent this year on entertainment," reported Bishop, "although it was not a crowddrawer, the students really enjoyed it once they were there.'' 
No trouble or damage occurred during Mardi Gras, although mea­sures were taken to handle it if any developed. The only incident took · place during "The Gong Show" closing night when WSND blew a fuse, leaving Stepan partially in the dark. The fuse was replaced within twenty minutes. 
Bishop commented that Mardi Gras was a lot of hard work, but a lot of fun also. "I really enjoyed working with the booth chairmen," he said. "This year there was less emphasis on gambling and more in the social quality of the booths and on entertainment.'' 


Tanker explodes, burns in Pacific 
HONOLULU [AP] -A Liberian tanker, which earlier reported a leak of more than five million gallons of crude oil, exploded and burned about 320 miles west of Honolulu, the Coast Guard said yesterday. 
The fate of the 49 .crewmen aboard was not immediately known. but the Coast Guard said some men had abandoned the crippled ship. 
The Hawaiian Patriot, which had lost the oil because of a major crack in its hull. exploded. buckled midships and was quickly engulfed in flames, the Coast Guard said. 
The Coast Guard said a huge oil slick caused by the leak from the tanker's cargo of 28 milli.on gallons of crude oil was on tire. 
The ship had earlier reported that the vessel was in no immediate danger of sinking. The cause of the blast was not immediately known. 
The Coast Guard had directed the tanker to halt its movement toward Ha.vaii because of the threat of oil pollution. The disabled ship and the oil slick were drifting westward away from Hawaii when the explosion occurred. 
The ship was en route to Hawaii from Indonesia. 
The Philippine merchant vessel Philippine Bataan was on the scene and a Coast Guard cutter and another freighter were headed toward the area. 
The 840-foot vessle is owned bv lndopacific Carriers of Monrovia. Liberia. the Co;tst Guard said. 

i I
I 
I i 
the observer Friday, February 25, 1977 
-----News Briefs--......._. Rus$ian hardships 'unbearable,' 
~==================National 
New HEW officer 
WASIDNGTON AP--President Carter chose a veteran government investigator yesterday for a new job to root out fraud and abus~ of programs administered by the Department of Health, Education, and Welfare. 
White House spokesman Jody Powell said Carter will nominate 
Thomas D. Morris, a former assistant comtroller general, to be the 
first inspector general of HEW. 
._~-On Campus Today---w 
12 noon-10pm 
12:15 
3:30pm 
4pm 
4:30p.m. 
5:15pm 
7pm 
8pm 
9pm-midnight joe kelly and pat cuneo, nazz, admission free. 
saturday 
10am-10pm 
1pm 7,9:30,12pm 
7:30pm 
8:30pm 
9pm-midnight sunday 1:30pm 6pm ! 7pm 
7, 9:30 and midnight 
8pm 
*The Observer 
Tonight's Theme: California 
Night Editor: Joe "L.A. bound" Bauer Ass't Night Editor: Chris "Beach Party" Smith Layout Staff: Drew "Beach Boy" Bauer, gone surfing for the weekend Features Layout: Chris 
Smith Sports Layout: Tor>y "Sun­shine" Pace Typists: Sue "Ventura High­way" Shellenb ·:rger, Don "Knots Berry Farm" Roos, Gwen Coleman, ~ary Mc­Cormick 
E.M.T: Terri "Hollywood" Harlan • Day Editor: Mary Pat "End­less Summer" Tarpey Copy Reader: Don "Beatnik" Reimer, Barb "Cable-Car" Breitenstein Ad Layout: Tom ··Earth­quake" Walrath show, recreational vehicle sh~w, ace, admission $1.50, under 16 free. 
mass, fr. griffin, Iafortune ballroom. 
travelogue series, "old russia: leningrad-tallin­moscow-suzdal", by karen rasmussen, galvin aud. philosophy perspectives series, "social structure 
and ideas toward modern american philosophy," by murray murphey, univ. of penn, library lounge. 
swimming, illinois state univ. at n.d. lecture, "brauer groups: by prof. daniel zelinaky, northwestern univ., room ,226, computer center­math. bldg. 
mass and dinner. bulla shed. bible study. campus crusade for christ, lib. aud. bridge, duplicate bridge, univ. club. 
exam, graduate record exam, eng. aud. 
show, recreational vehicle show, ace, admission $1.50, under 16 free. basketball. Iasaiie at n.d. film. "the blackbird," sponsored by knights of 
columbus, k of c hall, admission $1. 
meeting. society for creative anachronism, everyone going to rockford must attend, Iafortune rathskeller. drama. "they," o'laughlin aud., admission $3.50, 
students $2 .00. society for creative anachronism. dungeons and dragons, were gaming. 
t.r. paulding, martha paulding, nazz, free. 
boxing. bengal mission bouts, ace. 
workshop. work values workshop, regina hall room 141. 
black cultural arts festival. gospel church service delivered by rev. marvin russell, nd gospel choir will perform, alumni chapel. 
film. "the blackbird," knights of columbus hall, admission $1. 
film. "accatone," smc carroll hall, tickets $1. 
lecture. "marriage: from romance to heroism," by rosemary haughton, library aud. and lounge. 
SUNDAY MASSES (Main Church)  
Sat. 5:15 p.m. Sun. 9:30a.m. Sun. 10:45 a.m. Sun. 12:15 p.m.  Rev. Robert Griffin, C.S.C. Rev. Edward Malloy, C.S.C. Rev. James T. Burtchaell, c.s:c. Rev. William Toohey, C.S.C.  

Vespers will be at 7:15 p.m. in the Lady Chapel. Rev. James T. Burthcaell, C. S.C. will be celebrant. Homilist will be Rev. William To,»hey, C. S.C. 


THEY
~·No 

Polish playwright Stanislaw W itkiewicz' hilarious farce on human

SMC: 
existence 

THEATRE._i 
FEB. 2S, 26, Mar. 3,4,5 at8:00 p.m.

$2.50 ($2 Std, Fac) 284-4176. 0' Laughlin Auditorium 
I 

says Dr. Victor Herman 
by Jim Kotorac 

The country consists of ''friendly and good people, but the hardships are unbearable," Dr. Victor Herman revealed Wednesday night. In a lecture entitled, "My 
Forty-Five Years in Russia," Herman told of his years in the 
U.S.S.R. and his fight to return to the U.S. 
At age sixteen the Herman family was taken from their home in Detroit and sent to the Soviet Union where the father had taken a job to build a Ford Motor plant, Herman explained. Three hundred American families were crammed into 17 houses in a village especi­ally constructed for the foreign workers. 
The accomodations were "poor, but at least we had heat and an adequate amount of food," said Herman. "The Soviet workers had to work longer hours, attend a night school, and live on very little food, but their enthusiasm was great." 
While attending a party at the Kremlin for those who had helped on the plant, Herman was intro­duced to an important general, who sent him to flying school. Within a year and a half he began doing numerous aeronautics stunt. 
A favorite of many important Russians, Herman was given much freedom. He became a champion welter-weight boxer and held a world sky diving record at twenty­four thousand feet, he said. 
When he returned to the village to visit his father, he found that only twenty American families remained the rest had been 
Sign-ups Sunday for Pitt. bus 
The Pittsburgh Club will have sign-ups for its spring break bus this Sunday from 6:30 to 7:30 p.m. in the LaFortune Amphitheatre. Payment is due in full at the time of sign-ups. 
Fare is $20 one-way for all, $30 round-trip for non-members and $27 round-trip for members. The bus will leave Friday, March 11. at 5 p.m. and is scheduled to return to Notre Dame on Sunday, March 20, at I p.m. 
The Pittsburgh Club will also hold elections for new club officers Sunday night during sign-ups. For more information on either the bus or the elections, call 1694. 
ThP Observer 1s publ1shed Monday through Friday and weekly during the summer sess1on. except dunng the exam and vacation periods The . Observer is, published by students of the Un1versity of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College Subscnptions may be purchased for $20 per year ($10 per semester) from The Obser­ver, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press All reproduction rights are reserved 
impr.isoned. ''The Ivan the Terrible mentality came back," Herman stated. "If you were not needed you were kiiled. The Americans had done a good job for the Russians, but were no longer of any use. 
Herman was soon also arrested and his prison camp life began. All the camps he would inhabit, he said, :were preludes to the Nazi 
lsn't it about time  Philadelphia  
you stocked up  Whiskey  $4.89 qt.  
at...... .  $9.59 1f2Gal.  
12 pk. Gold Label  
\.OCI(s,  Beer $2.69  

8pk. Stroh's $2.07
LIQUOR 
Miscellaneous

~OR\.0 
Cases of Beer $3.85!!!

Suuth Bend Ave. 277-3&11 
Just past Fat Wally's 
weekdays 
7 :15·9 :20 
Sat.sun 1:15 3:15 5:15 7:15 9:20 
Held Over! 
Weekdays 7 :30· 9:30 

Sat-Sun 1:45-3 :35-111EY-AIN't 
5 :25·7 :30-9:40 
• 

SPECIAL-Fri. & Sat. Only Midnite Shows! 
W RBR and Forum Cinema Present... The Cannes Jury Prize Award Film... 
Ri "TAKING OFF" 
LYNN CARUN ••oBUCK HENRY Reduced Price • 
Remember to 
turn in your 
COMPUTER DATING 



forms 
to the Student _Union 
ticket office 
TODAY. 
camps which would appear during the next World War. 
Herman related that in interro­gation he was beaten for eight hours daily o~er a three-day period because he refused to sign a document he could not understand. 
During this time a new rule was established that prohibited physi­cal torture ofthe prisoners. He was 
(continued on page 3) 


I 

. 
. ' 
T, .. ,:
n.J-..CJl 
r 


: 
-i Machines robbed at SMC halls 


~~ss' 
$~$
by Honey McHugh 
~$$ 

Over $200 was taken when two of 
$the hall change machines were broken into on the St. Mary's campus on the weekend of Feb. ~· These machines were located m Holy Cross and Regina Halls. 


According to members of the hall . staff at Holy Cross, approximately Hall. There, the btll change~ took a $75 was taken from the dollar bill loss of nearly $140. Approx~mately chan er sometime Saturday. Feb. one half ~f . the amount was 4 agnd Sunday, Feb. 5. The returned wtthm a . week, b~th ~achine was triggered by pieces of anonymously a~.d dtr_ectly,: wh!le typing paper or aluminum foil that the o~her,taif r~mams ~tl open served the same purpose as a questiOn, a~cordmg to Bnght. one-dollar bill. The pieces of paper ~loor ~eetmgs wer~ also ~eld, at were apparently inserted just far whtch time Hall Duect~r: Mary enou h into the machines to cause Laverty encourag~d t~ose mvolved the c~ins to drop, a staff member to come forward m fatrness: to the 
explained. others. . ; 
According to Resident Advisor "I greatly_ apprectate ;~e stu­Mindie Bright, after a series of dents who dtd cooperate, !stated floor meetings were held and Laverty. : notices posted, a good percentage Neither ~eMans n_or Mc~~~dless of the money was anonymously Halls ~ere mvolved m the mftdent, . returned. The balance of the money accordmg t_o hall staffs. The! Sou~h will be paid under the direction of Bend Vendmg C~. was u_pset~by t e Hall Council authorities. vandalism, yet tt~ mam . c?ncern ' Sometime Friday night, Feb. 4, a was for the expedtent reco~ery of similar incident occured in Regina the funds, the hall staffs re1:1orted. 
Lecturer Victor Herman i describes prison camp .! 
, (continued from page 2) 
sent to the same interrogator, who 
now spoke kindly to him, Her~an 
said. He learned that the Russtans 
did not want him anymore, but they 
would not allow him to return to 
America. . . . 
Herman attnbuted hts survtval at 
a new camp to his daily consump­
tion of a rat. The Russians had 
decided to let him starve, he 
explained, so it was the only food 
he could get. . 
After ten years at thts camp. 
Herm.an .was sent to Sib~ria to live 
out hts hfe. H~rman. satd that he 
would have pens?ed .'f not for the 
kindness of the Stbenan people. 
Eighteen years later he ~m­
barked upon a career as a box~ng 
trainer and later turned to teachmg 
in schools. 
At that time Herman began 
correspondence with the U.S. 
government. He would get 
answers, he said, but nothing was 
ever done. Statesmen would sa~: 
"We hope for your better future, 
but no acti~n was ~ver ta~e.n. 
Whe? Prestdent Ntxon vtstted 
Russia, Herman was arrested and 
the then Sec.retary of _State Hen.ry 
Kissinger satd somethmg that dts­
pleased the Russians, Herman was 
harrassed. 
Suddenly, Herman's money was 
confiscated along with his docu­
ments and he was given two days to 
leave the country. He immediately 
divorced his wife so she would not 
~~t;~~,~:,~b:~:rt~!"~~',:'~. 

to~:~!;:: ~;:uv 
Professor Wilfried Dumon, of the 
University of Leuven. Belgium, will 
deliver a talk entitled, "The Family 
and its Future," on Monday, Feb. 
28, at 8 p.m. in Room 120 Hayes 
Healy. 
Professor Duman, who is here 
under the auspices of the Center 
for The Study of Man, will deal 
with the changing family policy in 
Europe and its implications for 
American Social Policy. 
Dumon has been Visiting Pro­fessor at both the University of Nijmegen (Netherlands) and the University of Antwerp. He was a Guest Lecturer at the Salzburg Seminars in American Studies and was involved with the .Family Studies Center of the University of Minnesota. ·He is the Secretary of the Committee on Family Research of the International Sociological Association until 1978 and is the Associated Editor of the Inter­national Department Journal of Marriage and the Family. 
airport, congratulated htmi as a hero and welComed him back!' 'for a visit sometime." i 
Presently Herman is trying to get his ex-wife and his two da~ghters out of Russia. He is also wtjiting a book of his experiences. 
Responding to question~ ~rom the audience, Herman explamed his theories about trade wiith the Soviet Union. "Trade is a tPust.'' he said. "Either we will havf! peace or war. Cold war is in the tenter, but it does nothing." / He continued, "Trade :means 
peace. Trade also means ex~hange and gain. Thus far Americal'1s have only lost in trade." ! 
Herman told of supplies jof gas and oil and lumber which t~e U.S. could get in exchange f?r the technology and grain it : sends abroad. i 
"For a long time," hd said, "problems were caused *y the Stalin leadership and the policies of his successors,'' The problem here, according to Herma~. was that leaders in the government and the Communist party wete not highly educated. . :. 
The organization whtch dtctates much of Russian policy is the KGB, which consists of more ;highly educated officials. H~rman 
expressed a belief that 1better relations should result fro~ the KGB's emergence. ' 
\.~..-.~-Wti'IJ~....-A--""'1""""'~,.,..--""'1,_.~,.,.... 

L t \_hance i.or 
, as ~ J' •••••••••••. 



I,---------------...,
\ J~, ..~( . : 
BECAUSE
.J~\,; nkl NASSAU, I when cold winds blow your hair I 
, . ~~ i'.ij{\HA~AS I \ I, 
.·. ~.~·~-,.,.:~\ 7 Ntghts 1 1 

~~Zt''69 ~~;i~e II 
M I cl\t 12-19\ I 
inclu 

e~ air fare, 
I 
Hotel,all 

ax~s, tip~, and I 
I
gratuities for 

ei~ht glo~ous days. 
I 

limited spa e available 
I 
i 
1 

Vivian$ Hair Design Studio
For more "nform1tion or application co tact ?84-4198 l ,''f . 230 N. Michigan II
1 

. -. VJVIAN1S 232-2194 . 
call COLL C (312) 1782-1884 ' · offer ends April2, 1977 I ~~------• CotJpon•-----" 
1 Fridav, Febraury 25, 1977 the observer 
Msgr. Egan to chair social project studying health and education 
Msgr. John J. Egan, special 
assistant to Rev. Theodore 
Hesburgh, has been named cha:r­
man of a task force on housing and 
zoning for a new research project. 
Entitled ''Mediating Structures 
and Public Policy," the three-year 
study will investigate new methods . 
of delivery of vital services in . 
health care, education and child '· 
care, welfare and social services I 
and criminal justice as well as 
housing and zoning. 

Egan, who is often referred to as ' 
the godfather or urban ministry, ~ 
was one of the first to use the i 
concept of community organization · 
as popularized by Saul Alinsky. as special assistant to Rev. Theodore Hesburgh he represents Notre ·Dame's president in relationships with outside religious organiza­
tions. 

Egan also serves as director of the University's Center for Pastoral and Social Ministry, and he super­vises non-University, Church-rela­ted groups which operate on the Notre Dame campus, such as the Cathlic Committee on Urban Minis­try which he himself founded in 1967. 
According to Egan, the goal of the research project is to accomp­lish the following: "to analyze the present housing situation in order to determine what legislation is needed on national and state levels, in order to do two things: 1) to have more comprehensive and humane housing and land use and planning policy in the United States, .and 2) to determine how 
1 

proper housing <and land use and 
planning policies can strengthen ' 
the mediating structures of the 
family, the neighborhood, the 
churck, the volunteer organizations 
and the subcultural groups." 

"Between the individual and the government there must be certain strong structures which we call mediating structures," explains Egan. The basic idea behind the project is the propsal that the mediating structures of family, neighborhood, church, voluntary associations and ethnic and racial subcultures can be used to deliver the services now attempted largely 1 through government bureaucra­cies. It is the belief of the task force that. the proper policies can strenghten the mediatinJZ struc-
Need a friend?? ND-SMC HOTLINE 4-4311 
8-12pm Sun-Thurs. 
9-1am Fri-Sat. 

ND-SMC THEATRE TRYOUTS 
Fiddler On The Roof 
Singers-Actors-Dancers 
Sun Feb. 27, 5 -9 pm Mon Feb. 28, 7 -1 OpmIn 0' Laughlin Aud. By Appointmenr Only
Call284-4141 
Audition Materials Available SPDR Off. Rm. 110 Moreau (SMC) SPDR Off. Washington Hall (ND) 
OPEN TO ALL ND-SMC STUDENTS 
happy hour today at the 
senior bar beers $.30 3-6 pizza $1.50 friday night: ladies nite 
seven & ~even . $ 
50 9-1

gtn & tontc · screwdrivers we are open saturday after the ,Iasalle gamesaturday night: bring a date, get a free drink! 
becomes Dull, Dry, Brittle  I  
so  & needs Attention Vivian has put together a  1I  
"Hair Rescue Special" with this coupon  II  
~~ile;.~ s~.~~.~EN  $1.50  I  

PPT Conditioning Treatment 4·5°lI Phinal Phase Normalizer 1.50 Hair Cut & Blo Dry 10.50 
----I I all this for only 1 $10.50 I I
I 
tures, and therefore "bring about the strengthening of the total fabric of society." 
Dr. Peter Berger, professor of sociology at Rutgers University and noted conservative author, and Pastor Richard Neuhaus, a Luthe­ran minister active in urban affairs, civil rights and antiwar movem­ments, are codirectors of the project. Five task forces, including the one headed by Egan, will examine the practical application of their approach. 
,...---· 

the observer Friday, February ~5.1977 
Includes car, insurance, drug tips 

lnPIRG to distribute ~consumer factbook soon 
by Joan Fremeau StUf Reporter 
InPIRG, the Indiana Public 
Interest Research Group, is cur­
rently working on consumer­
interest and environmental pro­
jects, according to Julie Engelhart, 
InPIRG board chairman. 
In a few weeks, InPIRG will 
distribute its annual consumer 
handbook to all students at Notre 
ELO mix-up explained 
In the ELO concert line story in the Obllerver on Tuesday, Feb. 22, some facts concerning the actions of Tom Hallett and John Smith were omitted. 
Both students were involved in a previous similar incident, and had met before last week with Chris McCabe, Student Union ticket manager, to work out a concert line policy.The "suggestions" drawn up at that meeting, according to Hallett, were those which McCabe posted at the ticket window and were published in Monday's Ob­server. Hallett and Smith under­stood these guidelines to be "poli­cy" and treated them as such by forming a continuous line. 
Upon arriving at the ticket office Monday about 11 am, Hallett and Smith started their own line under these "rules", since there was no line there at that time. When the 31 other students arrived at noon, as advised by John Rooney, assistant ticket manager, "Rooney realized they could not stick by their policy,'' Hallett explained. 
"We were put at end of the line," he continued, "and in return we wanted control of the roll calls.'' Hallett emphasized that the affair was a misunderstanding which resulted from the Student Union's decision not to make their list of suggestions public until the day before the tickets were sold. 
ISO forms Islamic Assoc. 
byTomEder 

The International Student Organization (ISO) has announced the formation of an Islamic Associ­ation in the 'Notre Dame commun­ity. It will join the Latin American Association, the Chinese Associa­tion, the Indian Association, and the African Association, who currently form the ISO. 
One of the most important activities that will stem from the Islamic Association will be classes in Arabic. These classes, open to all students, will be offered starting March 6, from 2 to 4 p.m. every Sunday in Room 2D of LaFortune Student Center. The deadline for registration is March 6. 
"There has been a recent surge ofinterest in the Middle East, and I have received many requests for classes in Arabic," said Father Daniel O'Neil, director of the Office of International Student Affairs. "The Islamic Association will sat­isfy these interests and help us achieve our goal Of making the Notre Dame community aware of international interdependence and the need for international help and cooperation;" O'Neil added. 
The Islamic Association will cele­brate the birthday of Muhammad on Wednesday night, March 2. The celebration will be held on the twelfth floor of Grace Hall at 6.p.m. 
Further informati<'r: on the Asso­ciation and the Arabic classes can be obtained by calling the Office of International Student Affairs at 8973. 
SBP forum 
The candidates for Student Body President will hold a debate Sun­day, Feb. 27, in the lounge of Alu_mni Hall. The debate will begin at 8 p.m. 
Dame, St. Mar}r's--and Indiana University at South Bend, Engel­hart announced. The handbook, compiled by InPIRG volunteers, includes results of record store and car repair surveys and tips on how to buy life insurance and prescrip­tion drugs, she said. 
"The purpose is to advise stu­dents on good consumer habits,'' secretary Ed Zagorski explained. "It will be helpful to students to know this information, especially to seniors who will soon be on their own." The book suggests where to look for the best priced records, and how to get a car repaired or buy insurance without getting "ripped off." 
InPIRG is also sponsoring an 
SLC candidates· 
environmental education seminar during April. Aimed at student teachers of the South Bend Area, the seminars will concern "how to instill awareness of environmental values in students," and also discuss ''ways to adapt schools to environmental! problems, •' Zagor­
.ski noted. 
The seminars will considt;r the necessity of eLwareness and sensi­tivity towards environmental prob­lems, as well as the philosophy behind ecology, and methods of conservation and protection, said Engelhart. Speakers include Patrick Horsbrugh, professor of architecture and environics, Kenneth Goodpaster, professor of philosophy, both of Notre Dame, and Jack Snell, head of the State Department of Environmental Edu­


cation, she added. 
In keeping with their philosophy please take note on conservation, other InPIRG volunteers arc~ currently lobbying All Student Life candidates, for the passag•e of a "Bottle Bill" in should come to the Observer office the Indiana legislature, Zagorski at S pm on Sunday, Feb. 27, to be said. The bill would enforce a interviewed. five-cent on returnable 
containers. 

A grant from the Consumer Protection Safety Commission pro­vided InPIRG with funds for a slide series on children's playroom equipment, Engelhart said. Three of the six segments are completed. The series is a precautionary measure. It suggests what to look for when buying baby furniture, equipment and toys, she explained. 
A low budget has forced InPIRG to complete fewer projects this year. "We depend on student contributions, which we didn't get," Engelhart explained. "We asked students to check a car and return it to us if they were willing to contribute a set fee in their tuition," she continued. "We didn't receive I!_~ re~ponse." 
This year, -the process will be different. Cards will be distributed at registration along with informa­tion on InPIRG and students will be asked to sign for a set contribution. "I expect we'll get a greater affirmative response and more funds by this process," Engelhart said. 
In the future InPIRG volunteers will be studying the child justice system in Indiana, what rights they have in court and how they are 
. treated in juvenile correction homes. It has also been suggested that volunteers look into PCB pollutants, which are carcinogenic, in the St. Joseph River. lnPIRG welcomes project sug­gestions, Engelhart noted, and will distribute a news letter soon, outlining its goals for the future. 
Vodka 

Reg.$5" 


Vin Rose 
Reg. $389 
Seagr~ms Now $3:! 
Reg. $545 




Sangria 'Now'$1:! 
Reg. $210 
Ruin Now Reg. $58o 


Cases of Beer $399 


Entertainment 
by DAVID 9'KEEFE 
ON CAMPUS 
They: With sparks of artistic creativity and courage, Dr. Miles Coiner and the ND­SMC Theatre present Stanislaw lgnacy Witkiewicz's farce outlining fear and loathing in the pluralist industrial society. Matt McKenzie, Michael Feord and Ellen Flach star in only the second American production of the play. Performances will be tonight, tomorrow, and March 3, 4 and 5 at 8:00 pm at O'Laughlin Auditorium. Tickets can be reserved by calling 4-4176. 
The Quickie: Pay 75 cents. Leave circle at 8:30, 9:00, 9:30, 10, 11, 12, 12:30, 1:00, 
1:30. Stop at the Forum Theatres (Fun with. Dick and Jane and Freaky Friday), Shula's Kubiak's and the Heidelberg. Both nights this weekend. Movie: The Blackbird, a slightly off-beat comedy starring George Segal as Sam Spade, Jr., will be shown by the Knights of Columbus at the K of C Hall at 7:00, 9:30 and 12:00 pm on Saturday and Sunday. 

Admission is a dollar. Basketball: ND v. LaSalle at the ACC, Saturday at 1:00pm. Concert: Boston at the ACC Sunday night at 8:30pm. 
ON THE TUBE 
Tonight 

Monty Python and the Holy Grail: The highlight of this otherwise nondescript television week is this piece of insanity, vintage 1975, from the delightful band of cockney crazies who call themselves Monty Python's Flying circus. In their second film, the aimless iconoclasts reduce the legend of King Arthur to ashes, and the audience to helpless hysteria. (11:30 pm, 22) 
Sunday 

GoH: The final round ofthe Jackie Gleason Inverrary Classic, one ofthe richest events on the PGA tour, from Lauderhill, Florida. (4:00pm, 22) 
Monday 

Challenge of the Network Stars: The three majors move from the tube to the playing field, but the competition remains. See Rob Reiner run, Jacklyn Smith swim, Hal Linden play volleyball, Telly Savalas throw a baseball, Gabriel Kaplan run the obstacle course, and more. (9:00 pm, 28) 
Tuesday 

Kojak: Sylvester (Rocky) Stallone plays a young officer accused of murdering a suspect in cold blood.OO:OO pm, 22) 
Wednesday 

Minstrel Man: This 1977 TV movie attempts to deal with a difficult subject, the degradations of antebullum and Recon­struction minstrel shows, at a time when Roots has made such a show especially easy and notable. If handled poorly, though, it will just be another TV movie. (9:00 pm, 22) 
ON THE SCREEN 
Forum 1: Fun with Dick and Jane **'h: George Segal and Jane Fonda star as an affluent suburban couple who turn to urbane crime after he loses his job. Forum 2: Freaky Friday: Mother (Barbara Harris) and daughter (Jodie Foster) switch bodies in an unusual Disney comedy. Town and Country 1: Rocky****: Sylvester Stallone's tour de force (he wrote it and plays the lead) is a magnificent and endearing tale about a gutterbum boxer who gets a shot at the crown. Town and Country 2: The Sentlnel*'/2 An unintentionally funny horror movie from Michael Winner (Death Wish}. One critic opined that the most terrifying episode is being forced to watch Sylvia Miles in the nude. He was right. Boiler House 1: Freebie and the Bean Boiler House 2: SUver Streak**V2 Gene Wilder and Jill Clayburgh limp along in this comedy-adventure set aboard a luxury train. The real fun starts when Richard Pryor shows up, lamentably late. River Park: A Star Is Born**: Barbra Streisand is overpowering and Kris Kris­tofferson inconsequential in this glossy remake. Scottsdale: Network***V2 Black comedy 
from Paddy Chayefsky, whose script is considerably more sophisticated and sen­sible than his earlier similarly fashioned Hospital. State: The Cassandra Crossing: Bubonic Plague breaks out on a hijacked European train. Sounds like one for the family to enjoy. 
;~~=;~:;.~:~:,~=~ ;~ ~;;~:~:,,,,,,,,,,,,;~~~:;~:: :.::::;:: ::;:::::::, ::~~:!~:;.~~::~i;;::~;:,,:::,::;::,,,,~:;~~~~:r;~:r;!~;;;~~:~;~:~;d:;;,~ \' 
:::: } by TIM O'REILEY 
} 
? ;:;: Edd' ' 

::: Ie s 
·.·. 
) Institutions glue together this commun­ity called Notre Dame. The Church, Knute Rockne and the Stadium, bars in Michigan, Fr. Hesburgh, et al, have evolved as (indispensible) components of the Univer­sity, without which the Golden Dome would probably melt. Even off-campus, 
·· certain establishments carry the standard as place~ where students traditionally take their parents for dinner. Eddie's. for both its proximity and cuisine. has assumed the proportion~ of a pilgrimage spot for such grandiose pageants as .Junior Parents' certainly allow many of the hungry to be accommodated. While two of these cham­bers are sedately decorated, the front one falls far short of its pretensions of being artistic. With a Picasso hanging beside a sketch of a Renaissance prince, anonymous landscapes next to portraits of the Duerer school, a backdrop of hideous red wall­paper (early brothel-style) and ceiling lights of an octopus design, this area could almost pass as Sanford & Son's living room. Considering that about one hour elapsed between our entry and the serving of the entree, such ornamentation cannot be ignored. 
The relish tray, in such a setting, came as quite welcome, replete with treats such as salmon, guacamole, sliced cucumbers, and a Kaukauna Klub cheese spread. An additional tray of crackers and garlic toast also helped wile away the time. (Special guest gourmet David O'Keefe noted that 
As the meal meandered on, the soup was presented in simple but distinctive cups and saucers. Though Mr. O'Keefe ex­pressed his preference for Swiss over Parmesan cheese. he nevertheless thought the accompanying French onion soup was good. Likewise, my potato soup was hot and was made with chunks of real potato. 
Mr. O'Keefe chose a mundane dressing to envelop his mundane dinner salad; I decided that experimentation with Eddie's special house dressing was in order (50 cents extra). The lemon-based dressing, with bits of egg. bacon. and cheese, sparked a needed fire into the otherwise uninteresting bowl of lettuce. A dilemma arises, though. over whether to let the soup go cold or the salad get soggy, since both arc served at the same time. I chose the latter course, with generally unsatisfactory results. 
The menu. ranging from $5.25-$7.40 
sections. Mr. O'Keefe cut into the tour-:::: nados of beef ($6.95), which flattered his } palate. However. after critiquing the lack :::: of sourness in his sour cream, he :;:: proceeded to attack the skin of his baked :;:: potato. Noting that. "This winter has been ::::: hard on my shoe soles,'' he tucked the skin :;;: into his vest pocket for future use. My veal ~;~· Cordon Bleu sat on the plate rather ) listlessly. after the waitress covered only ;:;: half of it with sauce. The taste proved little ;:;: more electrifying. My "American fries" ;:;: were somewhat heavy with oil. but this was :;:: compensated by the 'well-aged and exccp-~:~: tionallv drv rolls. :;:: 
Traditions die hard everywhere. even in :;;: a hotbed of liheralisn1 stich as Indiana. ~:~: Undaunted. however. Mr. O'Keefe :;:: judged. "M~· first e1wounter with the ~;~ heritage of Eddie's was more exciting than ;:; till' meal." Perhaps the time has enmc for a ;:; Ill'\\ tradilil>ll 10 ari"l'. ;:; 
-::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:::::::::::::::;:;:::::::::::::;::::::::::::::::::_:::::::;:;:::::::::::::::;:;:::;:::::::::::::::;:;:;:;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:;:;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:::;:;:::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::.::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::... :::::: 
.

.. ~ .....::
. 
t .• ' ... ' ''­


L __!he observer Friday, February 25,1977 
About radio broadcasts 

USSR raps United States 
by Chris Hopkins 

The Soviet Union is striking back at Western reports of repression in the Soviet Union by publishing a flurry of its own dispatches about "dissidents" in America, accord­ing to the Associated Press (AP). 
While warning the U.S. to stay out of Soviet internal affairs, Soviet newspapers are at the same time printing an unusual number of stories about America under head­lines like "Justice, U.S. Style" and "Persecuted for Their Views. " 
The Soviet Union also levied its sharpest attack on the Voice of America since the Russians stopped jamming the U.S. govern­ment broadcasts three years ago, the AP reports. 
The commentary by the Tass news agency did not directly threaten to resume jamming of the station's broadcasts, but the lang­uage of the commentary was similar to attacks regularly leveled at the U .S.-sponsored stations Radio Free Europe, and Radio Liberty, as well as the Voice of Israel, all of which are still jammed by the Russians. 
Tass commentator Yuri Kornilov said the Voice of America has become "one of the most powerful mouthpieces of American imperial­ism" in its 35 years of existence, according to AP reports. 
The reason for the apparent increase in Soviet propaganda against the U.S. can be traced to President Carter's Feb. 5 letter to the Russian dissident Andrei Sak­harov confirming the United States' continued commitment to human rights at home and abroad. "We will use our good offices to seek the release of prisoners of conscience," wrote Carter, and. ''we will continue our efforts to shape a world responsive, to human aspirations." 
Professor George A. Brinkley, chairman of the Department of Government and International Studies, believes that although anti-American Soviet dispatches have increased since Carter's state­ment, it is nothing out of the ordinary. 
''Soviet propaganda directed towards the U.S. takes place all the time with its high and low points," he said. "The reason for the increased coverage of the propa­ganda at the present time seems to be that the media believes it has discovered a new phenomenon to report even though it is really not new at all." Brinkley said. 
Western observers say that the Soviet Union is preparing a defense against human rights accusations at a forthcoming conference in Belgrade which will assess ad­herence to the 1975 Helsink; accords. 
Brinkley continued, ''Americans must understand that Russian thinking is based on a different philosophy towards Western rights. In the U.S. we have the right to speak out against what we believe to be wrong, but the Russian logic is that there is no reason to give the people the right to do the wrong thing. This is why there is such powerful leadership in the communist bloc countries, because they must have someone 
Gigarettes are7(jllersl 
American I CancerSociety*® 

teii them what is right and wrong.'' 
"If our concept of free speech were to exist in the Soviet Union it would be if you are speaking out to build up communism, then you can speak out all you want. And, it's not just the media issuing the propaganda in the U.S.S.R.; the schools teach the U.S. system is wrong because it is a system having millions of unemployed people. This appears illogical to them," Brinkley said. 
The Soviet response to Carter's letter came quickly in the form of a statement issued by Soviet Am­bassador Anatoli Dobrynin declar­ing that the Kremlin "resolutely" rejected ''attempts to interfered in its internal affairs." 
''The Russians were stunned at the high level response to the human rights issue and this irri­tated them. Although the relation­ship between the U.S. and 
U.S.S.R. has become more tense in the last two years, mainly because of leadership changes, I do not foresee any breakdowns in the near future," Brinkley said. 
Brinkley's views seem to be shared by those expressed by Press Secretary Jody Powell given in a response to a query if Carter's letter might worsen the prospects of an ar~s agreement with the Soviets. ,'Loving one another is not usually the reason for reaching an agreement on nuclear arms. If a SALT agreement is reached it will be out o( mutual self-interest," Powell said. 
-i 

: TJMM PARTY STORE ,_: :oPEN: MON-SAT 9 \am-11 pm:• SUNDAY 12 noon:. 11 pm • 
• 

COLD BEER~ PACKAqE UQUOR,:
•
•

• WINE~ GOURMI~TiFOODS :
• 3114 S. 11 ST. NILES~j MICIDGAN:
•

• 1 Block North of state line oil U.S. 31 :
• 

• • • • • e • • •
················~···~· 

Your challenge is to discover words of four letters in th~s pentagon. Discover them by following the straight lines to and from the letters, forming words as 
I 


GAME 
NOW OPEN 
Hickory Rd. Only 
• 
PINBALL 

• 
FOOSBALL 


COLLEGE 
DAY 
SUNDAY 
Show college ID & get $1.00 
off 16" Family size Pizza 

401 N. HICKORYi TOWN ~n;ouNTR 
31 N. AT DARDEN RD. 
When thJrJs a chbllenge, I quality m~k~s the' difference. 
We hope you hav some fun with the challenge. 
There's another hall nge we'd liike to offer you, too. The Pabst c aile ge: 1 We welcome the hance to prove the quality of 
our beer. We chal eng you to taste and compare 
"Where Pizza is Always in Good Taste!" 
you go.You may not use two of the same letters in any one word.If you can make 30 words or mor~, you've met the challenge. 
Pabst Blue Ribbo 
like Pabst better. 
tasting beer you c 
PABST. Sine 
t 1197f PABST BAfWI.N~COMPAN 
~--~~~~~~--L-~--~--------~~~~~------------------~~--~ 
-

to a y other pr~mium beer. You'll lue ibbon quallity means the best n g t. Since 1844 it always has. 
1 I 

I I 


18 4.The quality has alwa~s c:;ome through. 
Mllwcwk •t• W1s Pl'llrlcl.Ht•lqhl!-o Ill No"JI/,uk N I lt,•,A!HII'It·•, t o~lil I'.LII'.I t '1\llllol ' 
Friday, Fehruary25, 1977 the observer 
7~
--~----~~--------~~~~~~~--~'-~ 
People 'polite, but not friendly' 


ND-SMC students react to trip to Russia 
by Joe Slovinec 
Three Notre Dame students and one St. Mary's student participated in a tour of the Soviet Union in January. Aimee and Julie Ritten­house, Jinny Porcari and Jeff Schneider took the tour, which was conducted in the Soviet Union by Intourist, the official Soviet travel agency. 
The tour left New York on Jan. 3 and arrived in Moscow the follow­ing day. The group spent three and one half days in Moscow and then spent a night in the provincial town of Kalinin, before proceeding by train to Leningrad for a three day visit. The tour returned to the United States on Jan. 11. 
One of the most memorable events of their trip, according to the Rittenhouses and Potcari, was their visit to the Kremlin, which contains three elaborate Byzantine­style Russian Orthodox cathedrals, now communist state museums. The Intourist travel agency also took the tourists to a Moscow children's circus. The students enjoyed sightst;eing in the relative­ly mild Russian winter weather, with temperatures ranging from 25 to 30 degrees. 
The students were able to do some sightseeing on their own in spite of the regimented tour. They 
NOTICES 

But you've got to have friends. Gay Community of Notre Dame. Phone 
no. 8870 Fri. & Sat. · 
1 
Accurate, fast typing. Mrs. Donoho. 232-0746. Hours: 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. 
USED BOOKS. BOOK BARN. 1 mile north of Notre Dame. 272-5520. 
Will teach you flute in your spare time. Call Beth 8112. 
NEED TYPING? Executary Inc., Professional Typing Service. $.85 a page. 232-0898. 
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND $20-150. 1 day wait. 1 percent interest. Due in 30 days. LaFortune Basement. M-F 11:15-12:15 
Why pay $10.00 for personalized, astrological birth charts from imper­sonal computers? Detailed, typed profiles, $5.00! Call Pat-7339. 
Recreation Strong recreation background? Col lege grads or experienced indivi­duals wanted for VISTA Projects. Gain valuable experience and help others as a VISTA volunteer. Paid travel; monthly living allowance; health care; paid vacation, for more intorrtnation on requirements and locations of positions, contact VISTA at the Library Concorse or the Placement Bureau, March 2-4, 9 to 
4:30 each day. Make an appoint­ment tor an interview TODAY thru the Placement Bureau. 
Social Work VISTA needs qualified people in Sociology and related fields. Your degree and-or experience in social work, counseling, guidance or edu­cation is needed to develop pro­grams all over the United States. We provide travel, living allowance, health care and more. For full details on benefits and requirements contact VISTA volunteer recruiters at the Library Concorse or the Placement Bureau, 9-4:30 March 2-4. Sign up for interview NOW thru the Placement Bureau. 
FOR RENT 

Office space for rent. Come in and look over the offices in the west wing of the Administration Building. This is what we are offering for the next school year for LOW, LOW, rates. Then call 3472 for more information on this TREMENDOUS deal. 
For rent next school year -9 month lease. Two furnished houses. 4 bedroom and 5 bedroom. Near NO ­Off-street parking. Call 234-2626. 
Two bedroom house to rent. Sum­mer and-or school year. 1o12 Eddy Street. $120 mo. plus utilities. Call Oddies Harris at 232-8563. 
4 bedrooms, living room, dining room, kitchen. Utilities paid. $100 per month. Call Oscar 233-1850. 
Three bedroom house for rent unfurnished. Fenced yard. Near Memorial Hospital. Reasonable for married student. Quiet neighbor­hood. Call 232-9128. 
LOST & FOUND 
Lost: A pair of dark brown leather 
gloves on 2-16-77 on shuttle or at 
AMC. Call 4-5196. 
Lost: Watch. Please call 1404. 
attended a Russian Orthodox Epiphany service in a church crowded with many older people. The students also attended a Catholic Mass in Leningrad which was a pre-Vatican II Latin Mass. 
In general, the students found Russian people to be "not very friendly" ftnd always rushing and pushing each other around. It is common for Russians to lecture one another publicly if they don't like another's actions. However, the students found the Russians to be polite and helpful on a one-to-one basis. 
Many Russians whom the stu­dents encountered expressed a desire to visit the United States. Russians asked the American stu­dents about unemployment and wanted to know if they owned a house or a car. Younger Russians asked for blue jeans, American records, and bubble gum from the 
tourists,  since these commodities  
are  not  available  in  the  Soviet  
Union.  

Although the students were gen­erally treated in a polite manner by their Soviet hosts, there were a few incidents where dictatorial repres­sion revealed itself. The students believed their phones in the hotel were tapped and they received suspicious phone calls around 4 or 5 a.m. from callers who hung up 
Please return my 2 Engineering notebooks taken by mistake from North Dining Hall C-D Lobby. Need notes desperately for tests. Call 
Mike 3310.  
Found:  pair  of  glasses  near  S.  
Dining  Hall  2-3  weeks ago.  Call  
8098.  

Lost: Green, white and blue ski cap. Call H.C. 1795 reward. 
Someone left a calculator at Darby's Place Thursday night -if you can identify it call Mike Cleary at 7735 ­leave a message. 
Found: single key marked Taylor X-7. Found in SE corner of D-2. Phone 1251 -Chris. 
Lost at Campus View apts.: Fluffy .brown and white dog, answers to "Jamaica". Call Guts 277-4365. 
Found: Watch on Notre Dame Avenue. Call 289-1408. 
WANTED 

Need ride to Ft. Lauderdale March Break. Anne 7 478. 
--~-----------­
Ride desperately needed to Conn. area for spring break. Will gladly share expenses and driving. Please call Marie, 4-4369. 
Please hlep! Male friend needs place to stay March thru August. Call 284-5720. 
Get rich quick! Sell me 4 GA San Francisco tickets. Ray 1417. 
Help. l GA ticket nlieded for San Francisco game. Kathy 4-5206. 
Need 2 GA tickets for LaSalle game. 
Big $$. Call Jim 8767. 
Need ride to Cleveland 25 Feb. 77, 
Fri. $$. John 8720, Dan 8743. 
Wanted: ride to FLORIDA, will 
leave early (Tues. 8th J Chris 1797. 
Desperately need two Wisconsin hockey tickets for March 5. Call Paul 8550. 
HELP us get to the beach!!! 2 girls need a ride to Ft. Lauderdale for break, Call 7401 or 3725. 
Earthquakes will hit if I don't get 4 San Francisco tickets! Call Fred at 287-2771. 
Wanted: Rides to Ft. Lauderdale for break. Call Brian 1589 or 1516. 
Need a ride to Ft. Lauderdale for spring break. Will share driving & expenses. Call Pat 1514, 
Wanted: Rug-12 X 14 Call 4-4122 Charyl. 
Two girls need ride to Ft. Lauder­dale for spring break. Call 4-4291 or 4-4378. 
Wanted: Ride to and from Dallas for spring break. Split driving and expenses. Call Ben 288-7523. 
Wanted: One Wisconsin hockey ticket for Saturday. Call Tom at 288-9916. 
I desperately need a ride to Tampa­
51. Pete's area for spring break. I'll share driving and expenses. Call Flo Freely 6780. 
Need 2 GA tix for LaSalle game. Call 
Classified Ads 
Need ride to Houston for spring break. $ Dave 1765. 
' 

Need Saturday night Wisconsin tickets. Will buy or trade Friday tickets for them. Kevin 289-6929. 
Need 4 GA tix for LaSalle. Phone 6153. 
Wanted: 2 or 3 GA tickets for LaSalle. Call Kathy 1361. 
DESPERATELY DESIRE 2 or 4 G tix for LASALLE. Call Dan 8953 or 2195. 
Needed: 2 LaSalle tickets. Call EGG 1655. 
Wanted: Ride to Bloomington-Nor­mal II. (ISUJ on Fri., Feb. 25. Will share expenses. Mike 3264. 
NEED RIDE TO BINGHAMTON OR ITHACA, NEW YORK. SHARE DRINING & $. CAN LEAVE MAR. 1 CALL JILL 1333. 
Need tix for San Francisco game. Call Martha 4-4819. 
2 girls need ride to San Antonio for spring break. Will share driving and expenses. Call 4-5115. 
My buddy Harry Callahan needs two GA tickets for San Francisco or else. Call 1279. 
Ride needed to Ft. Lauderdale for 3 people on March 11. Call 1130. 
Wanted: 2 housemates for N D apt. 1 immediately, the other starting March 11. Call Dave or Steff, 288-4113. 
Desperately need ride to Terra Haute for Sister's ring ceremony. Leave Friday 25th or Saturday. Tom 1384. 
Help! Devoted hockey fan desper­ately desires one ticket to Sat., March 5 game (Wisconsin). Am very poor, but will pay $ to see Red Wilkie one more time. Or will trade one good seat for Fri. (Mar. 4) game. If you have a heart, call Karen, 288-2627. 
FOR SALE. 

TELEPHOTO LENS: 200nim f 3.5 Soligor T-4 with mount fOl'" Nikon, Nikkormat. Includes sun shade & Tiffen UV filter. $100. Can be adapted to Canon, Minolta, Pentax, Olympus, etc., with a T-4 mount. Price without Nikon mount: $90. Call 1845. Ask for Tony. 
FOR SALE: 2 pairs of Boston tickets. Good seats. Call Steve ­1478. 
AUDIO OUTLET: top name stereo equipment. Wholesale. Call 283­1181. 
1 pair of 2-wau walnut bookshelf speakers, 1 ft X 1.5 ft. $40, phone 289-8098. 
'68 Olds Vista Cruiser. A-1 con­dition; 67,000 miles, $750.00 or offer. Bill, after 9 p.m. 233-1993. 
Mars technical four pen set. Suit­able for ARCH 251. 00-2 plus 2.5, 4. 
highly industrialized city, there were no refrigerators, so women had to spend two hours shopping for food each day, and the food was high priced. Clothing prices are 
7 foot gold couch, fair condition. Will dicker. Call 255-3287. 
PERSONALS 

Ceil Popovich does not have a bad reputation. 
Hey, We'd vote for you if you were running. Vote Miranda-Clinton. 
HEY GOOD LOOKIN' JUNIORS!! THE YEARBOOK WANTS YOUR FACE. LAST CHANCE TO MAKE APPOINTMENT. CALL3557 FROM 
9-5. 

Sy, Now I hear you do like formals!! 
Patty, Thanks for the birthday cookies. Trying to make me fay? Love, Jimmy 
Mimeo maching -fully automatic ­never used -works perfectly -to highest bidder. Call 3342. 
Have a good meal and good time at Lewisio's Spaghetti Restaurant on Friday in the Lewis Rec Room. 7 p.m. tickets: $1.50. 
Mike and John in 315 Stanford ­Thanks for all your help! Kevin 
PREZ, SORRY THAT GAUD AND I WON'T BIE ABLE TO BE WITH YOU ON YOUR BIRTHDAY. JOHN 
F. P.S. OSWALD'S INNOCENT. 
P.S.S. AIN'T THIS THE PITTS? 
Hello mom, Sue and "cripps" in Denver from Sunny South Bend. Steve 
PARTY-Notre Dame Apartments. 820 No. l B Friday. Greg, Larry, Tom, Joe. 
AM C: "Karishma" Janam Din Mu­barik! What to do? Ben 
Girls wanted for Fat Wally's wet T-shirt contest. Call 277-0570. 
Three girls need ride to Fort Lauder­dale over spring break. Call 4687. 
Feeling depressed? ND-SMC Hot­line 4-4311 open nights. 
Nancy & Kitty, Rumor has it that you're going to pool your resources to attack again. Just beware of the IRISH ROVER!! Layout 
Co-author of the great mass song with the complicated words, Do you always catch the Personals intended for you?? I don't think so. Still in the Skies 
Mark 5., It's in the card! Let's "deal" at the party tonight! Jody 
Pete, Happy Birthday. Siempre te adoro. con amor, Lynn 
John Langhenry, I think you're cute. S.A. 
Freshman Chern Lab T.A.'s are dinks and they always will be. Yours truly, James Watson 
To Sarah Kunst, I have admired you from the rear. Would like to meet you. F. J. Brosnan 
Happy 21st Barb, Hope it's a memorable one. Peter. 
Stevie, Nice to meet you. Hope you en joyed NO. Good luck at South Carolina. Jim 
Dear "Head", Good luck in the Bennal's. Watch that "face" and 
also high. 
The four students enjoyed their trip to the Soviet Union immensely and recommend the trip to anyone who is interested. 
Happy Birthday Murph! from all your girls at SMC (especially Julie & Beth) 
Tefuan, Nothing exists, but we remain. We've got to go on playing our secret government and the rest of our comedy to the very end. Fondoloff 
Happy birthday to our roomies favorite guy. Linda & Sharon 
Rick B. Good times!!! DON'T WORRY! B.R.A.T. P.S. Tonight's the night. 
Tina, Have a great birthday. Luv, 101 
Happy 19th birthday to the SMUK Chick. from your friends 
Dear Michael, Meet me at the circle -after everyone goes home. 
158, Happiness from half of a whole to half of the best whole I've ever known. 105. 
M.C.P., From France to Romania the horror lives on. Good luck with the "Production." K2AM2 
Lisa (Elf-ears), Watch out for those MALFIGMENTS! the three little devils 
Sandra, Are you ph ished for the formal? the teasers 
Joe, I'm in the MOOD for dancin'. To(morrow) nights the night! Guess Who! 
Too All those who...indulge. The Quickee is running again this week­end. Friday and Saturday. Info call 7638. 
G. K., Dance off the stage and "break-a-leg." Thinking of you. The jade bunny 
Tim Beaty: I CRAVE your body. How 'bout a date. t. sick friend 
Beware of Kevin Kenney on Sunday Runaround Good luck Phildo! 
Beware AJA: Spring is in the air and you know what that means. No one is "in like," but they're in the thing that is "anything like it." Get that? Signed, Stranger 
Tina, Happy 19th birthday. May this be your lucky year. Laurie and Carl 
To Accounting Secret Admirer: Why don't you quit hiding behind your green eye viser? 203 Breen Phillips 
Peace Corps You can build a better future for others while enhancing your own... as a Peace Corps volunteer. We offer 2-year positions in Africa, Asia, or South America: paid travel; monthly living allowance; health care; 48 days paid vacation. Must be 
U.S. citizen, singl-married, no de­pendents, 18 yrs. old. Contact Peace Corps at the Placement Bureau or the Library Concorse, March 2-4, 9-4:30 each day. 
VISTA Excellent opportunity to use your skill where it is really needed. VISTA needs volunteers all over the United States in a variety of posi­tions. Training, paid travel; living allowance; medical care; more. For full details on benefits and require­ments, contact VISTA recruiters at the Library Concorse or the Place­ment Bureau, March 2-4. 9 a.m. to 

Mike 8708. Call Dave 8528. those "loud hands". Your "friend" 4.30 p.m. each day.
'----_-_-_-..;;-..;;-;.;,;-;.;;;-;.;;;-;.;,;-;.;;;-;.;;;-;.;;;-;.;;;-;;..._____________________________.....-..--..----------------...-.,.,.,_,___, 

~--­
-------~---~­
8 the observer Friday, February 25,1977 
Holleran views ND track evolution 
national calibre runner, and he's Though Holleran praised theGreg Solman out there regularly training with present coach, Piane, as beingSports Writer 
us. • • Kenny said he regularly "very good" and "open," he did gives advice to the younger run­say that if Notre Dame had hired a ners, particularly. coach with years of coaching exper­The name of Pat Holleran may Being as close to the athletic ience, the team might have made a not be as familiar to most students system as he has been for the past quicker start towards gaining back at Notre Dame as those of, say, a years, Holleran has had an oppor­the respectability that had underRick Slager, Bill Paterno, or even tunity to reflect on the way track is the peak years of Alex Wilson.
graduate Rick Wolhuter. However, run at Notre Dame, and lately Holleran also added that Pianehe happens to be as good at his reaffirmed his strong positions on would be a very good coach in time, sport as any of the aforementioned. 
the subject. with more years of experienceIt just so happens that Holleran's Holleran, who started running under his belt. 
sport doesn't receive the recogni­his junior year in high school, and Piane had five years experiencetion here at Notre Dame that it was Notre Dame's top man in before he was hired by the Univer­might at some other school. In 
cross-·country since his sophomore sity.
fact, if you were among the more year, expressed a feeling offrustra­"Having close ties with Patthan seventeen thousand specta­tion that running is not a sport Holleran for the past three years,"tors that watched Pat Holleran and followed closely at Notre Dame. commented Piane, "I know that heothers like him compete in Madison "In the years past, we've had has seen the programs under threeSquare Garden last year, then the some top talent Ijke Olympic star different reigns."
name might ring a bell --and Rick Wolhuter," said Holleran, Last fall, the cross-country teamindeed it should. 
"and it's hard to believe people defeated Michigan State for thePat Holleran runs. In fact, wouldn't want to go out and see first time in over twelve years.
Holleran, a third year graduate him run." More :ecently, in a track and field student in psychology at Notre Holleran put the blame not with meet, the Irish defeated NorthernDame, is officially the eighth best the fans at Notre Dame,. but with Illinois, a perennial powerhouse of5,000 meter-racer in the United the sport's promotion. He said that the sport--and the team consists of States today. and just missed he felt that the interest was there, mostly freshmen and sophomores.
qualifying for the Olympics last but that often times the student Holleran himself was positivespring. 
body would not hear that the meet about the track and field program. 
Holleran is still an active partici­was being held or would not care to "We've had some really fine pant in the programs of cross­see meets against teams Holleran performances turned in by a num­country and track, though due to described as being, "not top­ber of good athletes over the pasthis graduate status he is ineligible 
flight ... years."
to compete. Instead, he works out As Holleran put it, his four years In fact, the record book will nowregularly with the team. 
of undergraduate school marked show Dennis VanderKraats holding "We really respect Pat," com­the beginning of the decline of a record that Holleran himself held mented Kevin Kenny, a freshman track and field at Notre Dame. let the team slide in the last years a coach not as competent as Wilson by ov er a minute until this spring.
on both the cross 
Alex Wilson, who had many years before his retirement. In addition, was at his prime,was hired. At that Pat Holleran, one of the greatestcountry and track teams, "He's a of fine teams and performers, had runners to attend this school,
after Wilson's years, many of the time, claims Holleran, Notre Dame 

r Tony Pace 


Pace's Picks 
Earlier this year, I commented on the relative balance of all of the teams that were competing for the NCAA crown. Each successive week there have been many minor upsets and at least a few complete shocks. Last week, for example, Cincinnati was scheduled to play Rutgers at Madison Square Garden and the Bearcats were the clear cut favorites; they were ranked in the top twenty while the Scarlet Knights had been struggling all season long. So, what happens? Right, Rutgers runs the Bearcats out of New York City. On the same day Notre Dame plays West Virginia, a team that has lost to a mediocre Penn St. squad, and the Irish also lose. Yet another instance from the same day: the Oregon Ducks whip the powerful Bruins of UCLA in a PAC 8 game. How does one figure it? 
Well, for the first time in many moons, the teams that reach the Final Four could realistically come from any of the top 32 teams in the nation. 
SATURDAY NOTRE DAME over LaSalle by 20 points -This margin may seem rather high because the Explorers do have a respectable team, but the Irish have been blowing out most of their recent opponents. Incidently, this is the final tune-up before the Dons of the University of San Francisco invade the ACC. USF over Portland -The Dons will also have a full week to prepare for our showdown at the ACC as this is their final home game of the season. In case you are wondering, that guy who scored 71 points in a game two weeks ago does not play for Portland, he plays for Portland St. His name is Freeman Williams. 
SYRACUSE over Rutgers by 9 points -Last week I made a mistake by picking against my home state university, but I don't think that it will be a mistake two weeks in a row. The Orange men have not lost in Manley Fieldhouse in 41 games and they should not disrupt that streak with this game. KENTUCKY over Alabama by 8 points -Tht!re will be over 22,000 screaming Wildcat fans in Rupp Arena tomorrow and the emotional edge will be more than enough to stop the gang from Tuscaloosa. Providence over ST. JOHN'S by 7 points-This series between the Friars and the Redmen has always been close. The Friars will be looking to the NCAA tourney while the cagers from Jamacia (Queens, that is) are hoping to reach the ECAC playoffs to have a shot at qualifying for the coveted tourney. 
SUNDAY LOUISVILLE over North Carolina by 4 points -This game is in Charlotte and the fans will aid the Tar Heels. The Cardinals have been consistently inconsistent, but national television should spur them on to new heights. 
MONDAY Penn over COLUMBIA by 7 points -The Lions have the spoiler role as Penn and Princeton battle to the wire in the Ivy League. This is a homecoming of sorts for the Quakers' Tony Price and Bobby Willis, two New York playground ballplayers who left the city. HOLY CROSS over St. John's by 10 points-The Redmen seem to be fixture on the schedule of most eastern powers. Despite what he showed at the ACC earlier this year, the Crusaders Ronnie Perry is a fine guard and the Redmen have who can cover him. 
. TUESDAY NEVADA-LAS VEGAS over Hawaii by 19 -If nothing else, this should be a colorful game. The Rainbows feature Gavin Smith, the former UCLA player, but they don't have much else. The Rebels are one of the most explosive teams in the county, yet they have not 
been on a national T.V. game. Last week: 6-4 
"-Overall: 28-I 0 scholarships given for the sport could have hired a better coach, doubts seriously whether he will were dropped. Holleran said he "but essentially tried to get the ever run in serious competitive had written letters to both Fr. guy they could get for the least races like Olympic trials again. Joyce, University vice president in money." This coach was later Meanwhile, Holleran is continuing 
charge of athletics, and Edward dismissed at the wishes of the to run, and says he ~ill do so, "Moose" Krause, athletic director, team, and the present coach, Joe "until I can't improve any more, or expressing his dissatisfaction with Piane, was hired. Holleran points it ceases to be fun.'' 
Meanwhile, also, track and fieldthe way they had let track and to the records of those teams from 
cross-country decline in recent goes on at Notre Dame. and, in the years. the peak days of Wilson to the words of Piane, "With support present as evidence that the sport from alumni like Pat, we will return
Evidently, he maintains, after to those glory years."
the decline had begun with Wilson, has declined. 
leers fight elements to reach Houghton; defeat Michigan Tech's Huskies , 6-4 
by Ted Robinson & was delayed for one hour, it was turned back 34 of the 38 shots that Tony Pace indeed played. he faced while his Huskie counter­Sports Writers Once the game was started. the part, Chuck Stevens. stopped 27 of 
Irish never trailed in this contest as the 33 shots peppered at his net. The Notre Dame hockey team got they broke out to a 3-0 lead in the 
The stars of the game as voted by back on the winning track last night first period. The Huskies rallied for the media present at the gameas they defeated the Huskies of two second period goals and held were as follows· first star -Donny
Michigan Tech, 6-4, in a game Notre Dame to one goal in that played in Houghton, Michigan. stanza. But, this rally was held off Fairholm, second star -Brian 
Walsh, who had an assist in theThe most difficult part of this in the final period as the two teams 
game was the expedition to get to evening, and the third star -Huskie
traded two goals and the final Houghton. which is in the northern margin stood at 6-4. Rodger Moye. who had an assist to peninsula of Michigan. Because of go with his goal. the inclement weather conditions Lea.ding the scoring for the Irish the team traveled by bus to were seniors Clark Hamilton and The game was a very physical 
Donny Fairholm with two goals one as is evidenced by the fact thatChicago's O'Hare Airport, depart­sixteen penalties were called. Ten
ing at approximately 4:00 p.m. on apiece. They also had one assist Wednesday afternoon. · apiece. The other goals scorers for of those penalties were called against the Irish.
Once at O'Hare, the team had to Notre Dame were junior center wait three hours for a flight to Geoff Collier and freshman forward The series will conclude this
Milwaukee, a flight that normally Greg Meredith. 
evening, that is, if both teams cantakes only 18 minutes. When they The goal scorers for the Huskies get to the rink, with game timefinally arrived in the nation's beer were Rodger Moye, Rick Keller, tentatively set for 8:00 p.m. Thecapital there was more bad news: Warren Young and Lou Drazeno­game will be carried locally byall flights to their next stopping vich. all frontline players. WNDU-AM with Ted Robinsonpoint, Green Bay, had been cancel­Notre Dame goalie Len Moher handling the play-by-play.
led for the day. Again this was because of the inclement weather. So, the squad spent the night in Milwaukee. On Thursday morning they got to the airport early only to 


Lindblad hearing set 
find that they had two hours to wait before the ftrst flight to Green Bay. 
AP -Baseball Commissioner who has sold most of his top starsAlas. they boarded their next I 8 Bowie Kuhn has called a meeting to other teams, sold Lindblad, oneminute flight and arrived in Green in Dallas next Wednesday to of his top relief pitchers, to theBay. In Packertown there was more discuss the sale of pitcher Paul Rangers for a reported $400,000. 
bad news for the leers: absolutely Lindblad of the Oakland Athletics Lindblas who lives in Arlington,no tlights to Houghton. So. at I I :00 almost in' the shade of the Rangers'on Thursday morning they boarded to the Texas Rangers of the American League, but Ranger stadium, said he was delighteda bus for a chartered trip to the owner Brad Corbett says they will with the move and had agreedwilds of northern Michigan. Six hold the meeting without him. verbally to a contracat with thehours later they reached their long "I see no reason for my appear­Rangers. Corbett said he hassought destination. All told, the 
ance at such a meeting.'' Corbett signed.
trip took twenty-five hours, includ­
said Wednesday night. If Kuhn
ing the overnight stay in Lindblad said that even if nobody 
wants to void the deal, that's his
Milwaukee. else shows up. he will be at the
business. It's between him and
Once in Houghton the icers were meeting with Kuhn.
Charlie Finley, owner of the Oak­
presented with the opportunity of land Athletics, and that's none of Kuhn announced the meeting inpostponing the game until Friday 
my business.··

evening and moving the Friday telegrams sent to Corbett and game to Saturday. Standing firm in Corbett said he intended to be in Finley saying he would not approve the face of adversity. the team Pompano Beach, Fla., where the the purchase until a hearing was 
Rangers will open their spring held. He added he consideredvoted unanimously to play the training camp Friday.
game as it had been originally Lindblad still a member of the 
Kuhn's action came after Finley,
scheduled. And, though the start Oakland team. 






