
Student Body Congress draws fire 

SBP Mike Gassman and SBVP Casey addressing last Thursday's Student Body Con­gress meeting. [Photo by Dom Yocius] 
Gassman:. Purpose was communication Members: Congress a joke 
by Maureen Flynn Campus Editor 
Members of the Student Body Congress commented yesterday on the student organization's effec­tiveness in light of recent censure. 
Student Body President Mike Gassman said that criticism level­led at his handling of the body is based on a misconception of the Congress's purpose. 
Tom O'Neill, ·former Dillon Hall president, has charged that Gass­man has made a mockery of the Congress by failing to call regular meetings or asking for impressions or endorsements of student govern­ment proposals and projects. 
"The Congress was never meant to be a legislative body,'' Gassman said. "The idea was to bridge the communication gap, to allow all the student leaders to know what's going on." 
According to Gassman's original proposal in Feb., 1976, the cong­ress was to be composed of representatives from the Hall Pres­idents' Council, Student Life Coun­cil, Student Union and Student Government. It was later expanded to include class officers and Hall Judicial Boards. 
The Congress was to meet once at the beginning of the year to allow each group to present its plans and goals. A second meeting was to be held at the end of the year to evaluate and reassess goals. The announced purpose of 
:;~;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:::::;:;:::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:;:;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:;:;:::::: r:~u~~~io ;t~d:~/:~~~~~c:n!~~d::J 
i\ii Student Union audit ~lll pre~:n::~~c;~i::~:;:~.. 
••••,·n,·t,·ated by d1·rector R1·cc1· ·: ..;;~~~.::~.::r~:'l:·~::.~~:
:·:· ;::: dent Umon Dtrector Ken Rtcct. 
;:;; { by Maureen O'Brien. ;:;: Senior Staff Reporter 
;:;: ;:;: ;:;: The Beta Alpha Psi chapter at :;:; Notre Dame, an honorary accoun­} ting club, will audit the Student ;:;: Union beginning this Monday. The ;:;: audit was suggested by Fr. Burt­;:;: chaell last year and is being ;:;: conducted at the request of the ;:;: Student Union. ;:;: "Student Union should be audit­;:;: ed every year, but is hasn't been ;:;: done in a long while," Ken Ricci, { director of Student Union explain­;:;: ed. ;:;: "There have been three audits {over the last five years. I'd like to :;:; see it done every year," Ricci :;:; ~dded . "The purpose of the audit :;:; ts to 1 ook over our finances and to } see where money could have been 
;:;:saved."
{ The audit will be conducted by 16 :;:; accounting students working in :;:;four groups of four. Each group :;:; will audit two of the commissions in :;:;Student Union. Joe Coyne, Dan :;:; Osberger and Cathy Malkus are in :;:; charge of the procedure. :;:; "The audit should be completed } by April 1, and, by then, we hope to :;:;propose ideas to the Student Union } which will help things move smoo­;:;: ther," said Malkus, who is vice­;:;:president of Beta Alpha Psi. :::; Student Union hopes to save 
· some money by having students audit them instead of professional 
auditors. 
"This is a very involved audit. A professional audit would cost about $5,000," Ricci said. "Auditing Student Union is like auditing a million dollar corporation," he added. 
Denies Financial Problems 
Ricci said that the Student Union is not being audited because of financial problems. 
"We're in the black," Ricci declared. "There is a lot of cash flowing in and out of Student Union, but we still have $15,000 left to spend." 
Ricci asserted that Student Un­ion is now reorganized so that it can never be in financial trouble again. 
"Financially, we'll always do 
well," Ricci stated. "If we do bad financially, then operations are cut back," he explained. 
''And as far as operations go, we had a great first semester. We overspent this past January but that was to increase Nazz opera­tions. February will be O.K. and the rest of the semester looks good," Ricci remarked. 
Concerts will bring in some additional money for the organiza­tion this semester. Student Union opted to lease its four concert dates 
;:;: "Sometimes it hasn't realized its to outside promotional agencies~~~: full potential, but when it has it's this semester at four percent each ;:;: wor~e~ w~Il." 
concert, instead . of handling the ;:;: Rtcct satd the Student Congress promotion of the concerts itself. ;:;: has too many members to be an 
"This way, we've eliminated the;:;: effective legislative body, but com­risk factor. And we should be:;:; plained, "It's limited to Student clearing about $2,000 per concert,"~;~; Government information. It should 
said Ricci. 
• ·' "'-" 
\.:.);.·... *;?¥!:>'~· ·:'. ·· 
i~o,;
f..· 
4 T · 
f"" 
\. . 
KEN RICCI :;:;be broader. Information turns over } so fast," Ricci added, "that it's ;:;: necessary for the congress to meet ;:;: more often." ;:;: Gassman noted that the first two :;:; meetings of the congress--one last :;:;April and one in September--were :;:; composed of reports by the differ­} ent Student Government, Student :;:; Union and HPC groups. The agen­} da for the Feb. 3 meeting, he said, ;:;:was drawn up by him after consul­;:;: tation with other student leaders. :::: The last item, he pointed out, was ;:;: an open invitation for additional ;:;: comments and suggestions. 

:;:; Keenan Hall President Rich 
} Hebert said the atmosphere of the ;:;: meeting "was not conducive to ;:;: discussion. It was just rattling off ;:;: facts and going on to the next ;:;:one." There was ample opportu­;:;: nity to ask questions, however,;:;: Hebert added. ;:;: { "A joke" ;:;: { "People asked questions," Anne } Thompson, Lewis Hall president, :;:; said. "There just weren't that :;:; many things to ask." 
;:::::;:;:;:::;:::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:;:;:;:::::::::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::·:::\ Walsh Hall President Kathy 
\ 
l, 
\ 

Kane termed the meeting "a joke" 
and said, "Tom (O'Neill) tried to 
start a discussion and they laughed 
in his face. I didn't think that was 
very fair." 
John Ryan, vice-president of the sophomore class, disagreed, say­ing, "Everyone had heard before at the first meeting virtually every­thing he (O'Neill) had to say. People didn't want to get into a lengthy discussion of the same ·issues we discussed at the last meeting. He was in no way encouraged to keep talking," Ryan said. "There was just a lack of 
interest in what he had to say." 
Ryan cited lack of input from the 
Congress to Student Government 
as a problem with the Congress this 
year. 

Gassman also complained of a 
"lack of communication back. 
We've had a very fine communica­
tion from our direction outwards, 
but I ask for questions and sugges­
tions and there's just not a lot of 
response," he said. 
"People don't take the Congress 
seriously," Kane charged, citing 
the poor attendance at the Feb. 3 
meeting. "Only about 25 or 30 
people came to the meeting. Most 
of the members were there at the 
first ones." 
"I don't think the meeting 
served any purpose," said Thomp­
son. "Most of it was a rehash of 
what we heard at the HPC meeting 
the night before." 
"less productive" 
''There is a potential for hall 
presidents to find the meetings less 
productive," HPC Chairman J.P. 
Russell admitted. ''They get a 
continuous update, week to week 
on the concerns of student govern­
ment." 

"I dcm't think the. top people got 
too much out ·of it," Ryan said, 
''but it helped the people who are 
working under them to know who is 
doing what and who to go to on 
this. I like the Congress in gen­
eral," he added. "It's a very good 
idea." 

Several members noted that the 
Congress suffered at its most 
recent meeting from a lack of 
attend~>nce. ''There were probably 
a number of factors involved," 
Russell said. ''There is some 
apathy over the Congress and the 
meeting had to be rescheduled 
several times. It definitely can be 
useful to have that many student 
leaders together, but it has to be 
worth their time," he added. 
Thompson and Kane agreed that 
the basic idea of the Congress is 
good. Hebert added, "It could have 
been used hetter, but it was trial 
and error this year." 
"I'm not criticizing the whole 
Gassman administration," O'Neill 
commented. "I just think he blew 
this part and that it's a very 
important part." I'm not trying to 
kick Mike in the head on his way 
out.". 

"It's hard to work with a large 
body and to insure response and to 
work with it." Gassman said. "It 
will be up to my successor to do 
what he wants with the Congress. 
Hopefully, he can generate some 
response back." 
Thursday, February 10, 1977
the observer 

---News Briefs--... 

II====================International 
Queen Alia killed in crash 
AMMAN, Jordan AP ~Queen Alia, the beautiful young third wife of King Hussein, was killed yesterday when the helicopter ca~rying her on a mercy mission in southern Jordan crashed durmg a rainstorm. 
As a Western-educated Arab woman, Queen Alia was considered a champion of women's rights in the Arab world. In an interview after her marriage to Hussein she said, ''Our traditions and customs which put women in the background, relegated to the role of having babies and caring for them, are fading away." 
~================National 


Airlines contribute illegal funds 
WASillNGTON AP-American Airlines made public Wednesday a list of 71 current and former members .of Congress and several other politicians who received about $40,000 in corporate contributions between 1971 and 1973. 
The law forbids corporate contributions to political campaigns. 
Recipients include formre President Gerald R. Ford, Transpo~a­tion Secretary Brock Adams, House Speaker Thomas P. 0 Net!!, Senate Republican Minority Leader Howard H. Baker., Rep. AI Ullman, D-Ore., chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee. 

Fuel bill paymentssuggested 
Washington AP • The Senate Budget Committee recommended yesterday that the federal government pay up to $250 of the fuel bills of low-and middle-income families in areas hardest hit by the uncommonly bitter winter. 
The committee earmarked $300 million for the plan this winter as it completed action on emergency budget legislation to accommo­date Carter's economic-stimulus plan. 
.......on Campus Today---... 
3:30pm computer course, "fortran," room 115 computer center/math bldg. 
4 pm seminar, "electron reactions in liquid hydrocar­bons," by dr. augustine o. allen, retired from brookhaven national laboratory, long island, n. y., sponsored by radiation lab, conference room rad. research bldg. 
5 pm smc career development workshop, resume clinic by karen o'neil, me candless. 
7,7:30, 8, mardi gras dealers' school, Iafortune center tv room. 8:30,& 9 Prn .neeting, "alcohol awareness," by don new combe,7:30pm former dodger pitcher, sponsored by nd chapter of alcoholics anonymous, lib. aud. 
7:30pm lecture, "second 100 years," by marilyn holscher, educational co-ordinator for nd art gallery, nd art gallery. 
9 pm nazz, brian mchale, tim fannon, & paul kruse, nazz. 
midnight album hour, wsnd 640am, nina burrell plays kim carnes' new album, "sailin." 
by Jean Powley Staff Reporter 
Edltor·'s note: This Is the second of a two-part series on St. Mary's Alumnae Centennial Library. This segment deals with the Ubrary's future. 
A comprehensive plan for the improvement of St. Mary's library facilities is at present being scrut­inized by a committee composed of department heads, the college librarians and two students. 
According to St. Mary's Presi­dent John M. Duggan, it is the committee's responsibility to make sure that the plan, designed last spring by Dr. David Kaser, a library consultant from Indiana University in Bloomington, con­forms to St. Mary's needs. 
Included in the plan are propo­sals for expanded audio-visual facilities, larger staff working areas, and group study rooms with blackboards. Also, a rare book room would be built to house the college's valuable collection cur­rently in storage jp Regina Hall. 
Provisions for faculty study cubi­cles, smoking rooms, copy mach­ines on each floor and computer terminals are also included in the plan. 
In addition, an after-hours study area, seating 40 to SO people, would be built with access to the rest of the library, as well as to the outside for those who wish to study after the library closes. The room will be furnished with individual carrells and study tables. Smoking would be permitted and coin-opera­ted machines for ~macks and drinks are a possibility. 



According to librarian Sr. Ber­nice Hollenhorst, the reason for the proposal is that available space in the present. library has been ex­hausted. "We are very crowded and we'd like to give the best possible service,'' she said. The overcrowding is due to the fact that the library was built when St. Mary's had only 450 students, as compared with its present enroll­ment of 1700. 
Duggan, who called the library the college's "largest un-met need," said that the decision on whether the new facility will take the form of an addition to the present library or of an entirely new building will be left to the architect. 
He emphasized, however, that 

Suggestions entertained for cheerleading try_outs 
The Office of Student Activities their suggestions. How long do is now accepting suggestions from you think tryouts should be? any members of the ND-SMC Should tryouts be held on consecu­community regarding the cheer­tive weekends or run every day leading tryout and selection proce­until completed? How many cuts dure for 1977-78 cheerleaders. should there be? Should the judges 
According to John Reid, asst. be: a) from outside the ND-SMC director of Student Activities, their community b) all of the outgoing office is taking measures this year members of the squad or c) a to ensure that the cheerleading combination of the two. tryouts are conducted in the fairest Suggestions should be subnitted possible way. to the office of Student Activities 
before Friday, Feb. 28.
"We would be grateful for suggestions from any members of AAA~..IIIIIIIIIiii the Notre Dame community, whe­ther they be interested students, faculty or members of the adminis­tration," Reid said. 
Reid suggested that students could consider some of the fol­lowing questions when making 


SMC library plan reviewed 
*The Observer 
ND STUDENTS : Academic Council 
Night Editor: Chris Smith Asst. Night Editor: Leigh Tunakan and Steve Odland 


Do you think that the deadline for 
Layout Staff: Bill Rivard Editorial Layout: Pat Hanifin 


pass/fail courses should be extended to
Features Layout: David O'Keefe Sports Layout: Fred Herbst 


the date of midsemester deficencies? 
Typists: Gwen Coleman, Rusty Espinosa, Kathy Egbert and Mel Celeste Night Controller: Morey 


YESD NOD 
Blinder Copy Readers: Tom Byrne and 

Turn in answers to 
Drew Bauer Ad Layout: Pat Russell 

Kathleen Riordan Scott Medlock·
Photographer: Debbie Krilich 
431 Zah Joe Burns 112 Dillo 


1 he Observer is published Monday through Friday and weekly during the summer session. exrt-pt during 
Friday Afternoon 2 -6 
tht-exam and vacation pt-riods The Observer is published by studt-nts of 
.. 
the University of Notre Dame and St Mary's College Subscnptions 

14oz beers $.25 

may be purchased for $20 pt-r yt-ar ($10 pt-r ;emestPr} from lhP Obst-r­ver, Box Q, NotrP DamP, Indiana 46~'>6 Sewnd clas; postagP paid, T -Shirts and Prizes Raffled Off Notre Dame, Indiana 46~~6 
The Obst-rver 1s a member of tht­Asso< ld!Pd Pn•ss All rPprodurt1on 
BE THERE FRIDAY AFTERNOON! ! 
nghts an• n·"•rvPd 
the college plans to complete construction of its new recreation facility before it starts any other projects, as St. Mary's wishes to avoid any large mortgages, Dug­gan explained. 
"My expectation is that a propo­sal will go to the Board of Trustees when they meet in May," he said, adding that the architect hopefully would be able to start drawing up a plan next fall. 
The next step would then be to begin raising funds from alumnae, parents and foundations. 
Hollenhorst said that according to the questionnaires which stu­dents filled out last semester, many would study at St. Mary's if the library provided larger, more com­fortable facilities. 
this friclay and every friday 5:15 mass & supper 

' ...... .,  .~~'• ~.:o~.~_-"-•'  ..._I.&. I  -..•"!"-' 11..-LA ~C. L:. '­•. •­ _._,.•• t  •  f  t. •  t  '!,  • •' .• .• _. .• t  •  t.' I  '  
) '  


Student Union reviews positions 
byDaveBeno 

The Student Union Board of Directors met Tuesday night in an effort to review the organization's positions and consider its financial status. 
It was the first meeting of the semester and the third of the school year for the board. 
Members of the board are Stu­dent Union Director Ken Ricci, Director of Student Affairs Bro. John Benesh, Assistant Student Union Director Walt Ling, Student Union Comptroller Marianne Mor­gan, Student Body Pres. Mike Gassman, Student Body Vice-Pres­ident Mike Casey, and Student Government Treasurer Eric Ryan. Leo Granoski is Administrative Assistant to the board, while Ricci acts as chairman. 
Ricci explained that the board of directors is a review board and a link between the Student Union and Student Government. Ricci also noted that the current admini­stration is the first to effectively employ the concept. 
The major topic of discussion at the meeting was the Student Union budget. According to Ricci, three scheduled concerts, movies and Social Commission events are ex· pected to bring substantial revenue to the organization this semester. However, alterations in the original budget allocations have been necessary since some commissions have spent more than expected. A casualty has been the Academic Commission which had its budget frozen on Tuesday night. 
The Student Union now has approximately $11,000 left to spend with $7,000 of thant amount al· ready committed to next week's Sophomore Literary Festival. 
The directors also voted to sponsor an ad with Student Gov· ernment for this year's Bengal Bouts. 
The Board passed the Hunger Coalition proposal, which now en· abies the group to present a five-minute film immediately be· fore the scheduled Student Union movies this semester. 
The board did not take action on a proposal that would unify author­ity over all movies related to the Student Union. At present, one person is responsible for negoti· ations with movie companies while another works with the clubs and organizations that sponsor movies. The proposal is aimed at elimina­ting the coordiantion problem, and will be considered at the next board meeting. 
The board also discussed a possible reorganization of Student Union related movies, giving the union the opportunity to schedule · their own films first, and club sponsored movies second. . The board members decided against the idea, agreeing to consider any conflicts between the union and the clubs on an individual basis. 
The board decided against the Volunteer Services recycling pro­posal, which would have involved the Student Union in a door-to-door pickup of waste paper. The main reason cited for the defeat was the manpower needed to implement the project. 
"We're in a pretty good situation right now; we should have no problem meeting the budget,'' concluded Garonski. 

For more social space 
Campus Ministry West to open evenings 
by Martha Fanning Production Editor 

In order to provide more social space for students, Campus Minis­try has extended its hours in the new Badin Hall offices, making them available to students seeking a location to talk or study from 7:30 to midnight Sunday through Fri­day. 
Staffing the offices at night are six student volunteers: Joe Lown­des, Bob JoDes, Tom McDermott, Mite Glynn, Tony Oishem, and Dave Brady. The hours were extended last semester in early December as an experiment. Fr. Tom McNally, a Campus Ministry staff member, explained that the idea profided an opportunity to test out the concept of • 'peer ministry''. 
He described this idea as a "feeling tht the student is the best person to minister to a fellow student.'' 

7 DIAMOND HEART 14 K. $77.50 · 
f/"alentine Gi_(t 

For lovers Only! G_iye your valentine a heart of diamonds 
it will tell the whole story. From Our Selection Of 
Fine Quality Jewelry 
'V.J!!,!!RB.tt.!Jr.GS · 
Dimnonds....11Jntchu"']ewdru 
· South Bend, Indiana 
234-2919

.-------..NEEDLOW-COST 
I

I ITRANSPORTATION? 
I 
We can help. Contact: 
I

I Auto Drlveaway Co. 674-9786 
I

I Deposit Required I Returned at Destination I 
...-·:.::.~·­
Bro. Joe McTaggert commented, "as far as we're concerned, the use of the facility depends more than anything else ont he needs of the students themselves. Most of the time," he continued, "students are much more in touch with the needs of fellow students than we are. So part of our goal is simply to allow students to serve one another." · 
In the experiment before Chris­tmas, the student volunteers lear­ned that quite a few campus residents found the space ideal for last minute study. While some were studying in the private offic­es, others were using the large open space for conversations and a coffee break. 
"Frankly," McTaggert said, "we are anxious to get the maxi­mum use out of the facilities in Badin. H the offices can serve students nights as well as days, we are all for it!" 
The offices are also available for small group meetings. McTaggert, stated that groups meeting there ranged from members of Hotline and Community Service commis­sioners to students practicing a reading of • 'The Cocktail Party'' for a class project. Groups interested in meeting in the Badin office, m ay 

Abortion-born infants to receive medical care 
INDIANAPOLIS (AP) -The Senate passed 'a bill yesterday that would require life-saving medical treatment for infants born during abortions. 
The abortion bill, sponsored by Sens. Charles E. Bosma, R-Beech Grove, and Willfred J. Ullrich, D-Aurora, passed 34-14. 
"I'm sure it would bother you too if you saw a living infant thrown into a tissue shredder," Bosmas told the senators before the voting. 
The measure would require in· fants born alive during abortions to receive the same medical treatment now provided to premature babies. 


"I'k lilke you to consider the problems of premature births," Newburgh Republican James R. Harris, who voted against the measure, said. "There is a fate worse than death. That fate is being brought into the world with Thursday, Febr:uary 10, 1977 

the observer 

,.,... 
Rock news 
9tlnesls 

The rock group Genesis is scheduled for a concert this Sunday at Kalamazoo's Wings Stadium, according to Peter Kernan of the River Oty Re· view. 
~ 
~6 ## ·~} 
.b ' J 
; b 
J' 
'Ybb b 

~ ~ 
., . 

J (Nrie""s); and Suspended Chord 
(Eikart). 

Also on sale are tickets for the fotlowin_g upcoming concerts: Black Sabbath,-Feb. 15~ Ft. Wayne Coliseum; Harry Cha­pin, Feb. 19, Morris Civic Auditorium, ZZ Top, Feb. 22, Ft. Wayne Coliseum; Bruce Spr'wri~ht-'• Feb: 23, Auditori-, 
urn ~~~~~ae, Chtcago; Boston, feb. 28, Notre Dame ACC; and Gary Wright)Manfred Mann, March 17, Ft. Wayne Coliseum; Boston, Feb. 27, Ft. Wayne Coliseum. 
Superstu J.) 
The rock opera Jesaa Cbrlsi • Superstar will be presented tonight at 8:00 p.m. in Morris Civic Auditorium. 
Tickets for the opera are still available at the auditorium box office, and will be sold until showtime tonight. tf 
..... 

make arrangements by contacting McTaggert. 
McTaggert noted that the Univ­ersity had provided Campus Minis­try with excellent facilities at Badin. He, Kevin Kearney and Frs. Dan Jenky and Tom McNally have offices there during the day while Fr. Bill Toohey and Sr. Jane Pitz are at the main office in Memorial Library. 
McTaggert also pointed -to a need for social space cited recently by Mike Casey, chairman of the Student Life Council. Casey asked the Hall Presidents Coun,cil to help solve the problem. 
"Some halls obviously have little room they can use for social space," McTaggert said. "Though our o!fices certainly are not suit­able-for social functions like par­~ies, they are fine for people who 
JUst want to get together informal­

ly· The new offices, designated Campus Ministry West, are located located in Badin Hall's base.' in the northeast corner of Badin ment Campus Ministry's west Hall. The area contains four office is now open Sunday and private offices and a large open week nights. (photo by Debbie 
physical deformities and being r·ar_e_a_.-----------...;.K;.;,r,;.;il,;.;ic;;;h~)---------~~~ 
maintained for long periods of time by artificial means and then grow­NOTRE D4ME STUDENT UNION & ing up unable to cope with the 
SUNSHINE PROMOTIONS PRESENT 
deficiencies they have." 
They then adjourned for the first four-day weekend of the 1977 legislative session. The legisla­ture, now 27 days into its 60 day session, will reconvene Monday. 


RICK DERRINGER and JOURNEY 

NOTRE D4ME A.C.C. 
"«:>TilE O.W.E Sfl.JOE:Nl UNION TICKET OfFICE rH1 RECORO SUSPlNOW COQO 11'1 ELXI-Wn • GOSHEN ar>dMIIfCOIIO.()INTII'I,NilfS 
•-a·.......... ..,~ ... ._._..,..,_....~-.-.a·.a.'l.a~• .___________________ ------·.. 
.. 

-------~~~~=~=-=-------~--_;____;_,__ 
HPC reviews Legal Aid, Mr. Gampus, Rockne Trophy 
by.,._lbunbacb 

Legal Aid representative Mark Arruda spoke to the Hall Presidents Council Tuesday night about a proposed legal assistance plan. According to Arruda, the present legal structure is inadequate in two basic ways. "The main drawbacks we have right now.are that most students are not eligible and that we can't go very far with the cases we do get.'' 
Indiana law requires that legal services of this type have a supervisory attorney and aid only students who qualify as "indi­gent." Because the legal qualifica­tions for "indigency" include a maximum annual income of $3100, most Notre Dame students are ineligible for legal aid. The lack of a supervisory attorney becau,se of inadequate funds severely limits the amount of help the Legal Aid Service can provide for eligible students. 
"What I'm proposing," said Arruda "is that the University of 
Candy is d~r:"~dY, but... 

The Observer will sell Y!lJentine's Day personals in both dining halls during lunch and dinner on this Friday and Saturday, and at brunch on Sunday. Rates areten words for one dollar. Please bring cash and exact change, if possible. Valen­tines personals may also be pur­chased at the Observer office, third floor LaFortune, until 1:30 p.m. Sunday. Coupons for the personals are in today's paper. 
Hours extension indicated by r questionnaires
r 
~ by Judy Cerabona 
Preliminary results of a question­naire distributed to St. Mary's students indicate that the majority support an extension of visitation hours, according to Diane Smits, chairperson of the committeee investigating pareitals. 
The student poll followed ques­tionaires which were sent to par­ents, alumni, and faculty. 
"We have tallied all the parents, alumni. administration and all the faculty questionnaires we have received. We are still getting letters from the parents. This Sunday is the last day we will accept those questionnaires. 
In regards to the parents' ques­tionnaire, "she said, "I can't give the percentages of the responses, but 390 are opposed to the exten­sion of hours and 141 are in favor of extending the male visitation hours. Its about three to one odds against it." 
The students' reaction however, has been favorable towards the extension of hours. "From our tallies tonight, it is as predicted,'' she said. "The majority of students are for the extension of parietals." 
She expressed dissatisfaction with the small number of students who have helped compile the statistics. "The student body has not been helpful in tdlying the results," she said. 
For students who still have not returned their questionnaires, they will be accepted up until next Wednesday due to the fact that some sections of McCandless Hall received their questionnaires late. 
"We have worked really hard and a few people have tried to come up with a better proposal but student involvement has been poor," remarked Smits. "If it docs not -pass, stud_cnts can't com· plain." 
Notre Dame consider a prepaid legal services plan." The play, according to Arruda, would work on the same basic principle as insurance. Every student would pay one dollar each semester along with his or her tuition. This fee would not only allow the Legal Aid service to hire a supervisory lawyer but it would make each student eligible to receive legal assistance. 
Arruda commented that while 85 students used legal services in the first semester, most students are not aware of the existence of Legal Aid or its uses. He also asked the hall presidents to present the idea to the residents of their halls for comment. 
ELO Concert announced 
Student Union Administration Coordinator Mary Charchut an­nounced that the performance of Electric Light Orchestra will be on Friday, March 25 and not on March 26, as previously announced. She also stated that promoters of the concert will not allow block tickets to be sold. 
Student Union Special Projects Coordinator Charlie Moran re­ported th~t the over 1700 students have ·been involved in the Free University and that the teachers report a 65 to 70 percent atten· dance figure. He also stated that implementing improved registra· tion methods could increse atten· 
dance  to  90  or  95  percent  by  
eliminating confusion  about class  
times and places.  

Moran also spoke to the council about his proposal to convert the red barn on the Northeast corner of the D-1 parking lot to a social building 
for minors. Moran estimated the 
cost of the conversion to be 
between $50,000 and 60,000 adding 
that the estimate included the cost 
of the installation of proper lighting 
in the area. 
An Toastal Co-Chairman Dave Young asked that each men's hall provide an entry in this year's Mr. Campus contest. Young also announced plans to shorten and "clean up'' this year's competition. .the talent portion of the program will be shortened to a 5-minute performance by each contestant and the bathing suit competition will by modified if not eliminated. The scoring system has been simplified and the group of judges has been 
expanded to include represent< 
tives from the women's dorms : 
ND and SMC. 
Keenan takes Rockne 
Keenan Hall has been selected 
by the Hall Presidents Council 
(HPC) as the winner of the Rockne 
Trophy for the months of December 
and January. 
The HPC cited Kenan Hall's 
activities as ''varied and innovative 
in nature." Among Keenan's 
activities for December and Janu­
ary were the tubing party at 
Bendix, the snow sculpture of King 
Kong, the executive section meet­
ings and the section dinners and 
breakfasts. 
The HPC also noted other halls 
''with impressive accomplishments 
during this time period." Howard 
Hall, which sponsored the Leader­
ship Forum, Lewis Hall, which 
sponsored Lewisio's and Walsh 
Hall, which co-sponsored the 
Walsh-LeMans Happy Hour were 
all commended. 

TEACHING POSITIONS Math -Physics Engineering degrees 
The U.S. Navy has a limited number of openings for teachers in its graduate and undergraduate level Nuclear Engineering Program. This is a highly selective program which does not require a teaching degree or prior experience, but does require exceptional undergraduate academic ac­complishment in Math, Physics, or Engineering. Starting pay $10,500 and increases to $16,00 in three years plus full benefits and privileges of a Naval Officer. This is a teaching position only, there are no military duties. 
REQUIREMENTS 

AGE: Maximum 28 SEX: Male or Female CITIZENSHIP: U.S. Citizen EDUCATION: Minimum undergraduate GPA 3.5 in Math, Physics, or Engineering 
Interviews at Placement Office 14-16 February. 
THEATRE RENTAL NO PASSES NO REDUCED ADMISSION TICKETS 
[!!] Insearch of
Daahs Rrk~.j 



bnllant comedy r.;, _
L!!.J ~ 
-SHOWTIMES­
2 :00-4:30-7 :00-9:30 
--. 
COLOR 

1 
THERE MUST FOP.EVEP. DE A GUAP.DIAH AT THE 
S~fUdHELL... 
A UNIVEr\SAL 
PICTUf'\E 
TECHNICOLOf'\,~ 
2• 
THE 
ENFORCER 
[I-G • 
. < 
by Garry Trudeau 
DOONESBURY 
EDITORIAL BOARD

r% The Observer 
Thomas O'Neil Editor-in-Chief 

an independent student newspaper 
Dan Sanchez Managing Editor

serving notre dame and st. mary's 
Chris Smith Asst. Managing Ed. 

The Observer is published by students of the University of Gregg Bangs Executive Editor Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. It does not necessarily Val Zurblis Executive Ed1tor reflect the policies of either institution. The news is reported Pat Hanifin Editorial Editor as accurately and as objectively as possible Editorials Tim O'Reiley reatures Editor represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Bob Mader Exec. News Editor Commentaries, opinions and letters are the views of their Maureen Flynn Campus Editor authors. Column space is available to all members of the Marti Hogan St. Mary's Editor community, and letters are encouraged to promote the free Kathy Mills News Editor expression of varying opinions on campus. Barb Breitenstein News Editor 
Don Reimer Copy Editor

Box Q 
Business Manager Tom Fronczak Notre Dame Fred Herbst Sports Editor
Advertising Manager Mike Miller Photo Editor Tony Chifari Ind. 4&55& Tom Byrne Contributing Editor 
Thursday, February 10, 1977 

P. 0. BoxQ 
Dame" (February 1, 1977). I feel they are not together at school."
Short Fiction that I must write and challenge the All I can say is that I see no data to validity of the article's contents. It support that assumption. If one would be a crime for anyone to use were tounderline all of the unsub­this article as the basis for confirm­stantiated assumptions in the arti­
Not Jock 
ing their beliefs about the social cle, you would find more assump­environment at Notre Dame. tions than you would find facts or I suppose the best place to begin conclusions. is at the very foundation of the In short, I find this article to be
I strongly take issue with ~ the article--the sample used in compil­merely the opinions of two indivi­criteria used to label my Writing ing the date used in accepting or duals with a sprinkling of com­Short Fiction II as a jock course in rejecting the nine hypotheses. I ments from 100 others. Certainlyyour Feb. 8 article. By its very question the validity of sampling there is no scientific basis for any ofnature as a nonspecialist, enrich­100 undergraduates out of a total their conclusions--at least not inment course, WSF is intended to universe of over 6,000. I also am their study. People should not use encourage creativity and to foster curious as to the nature and terms such as "statistically insigni­an understanding and appreciation method of choosing those 100 ficant" and "conclusively proved"of a literary form, in this case, persons. Were the questionaires without much sounder basis than inthrough actual practice in the 

spread over the entire campus? Ms; McLaughlin's and Mr.
writing of short stories and through Certainly all dorms should be Dallaqua's article. I rate themature criticism and discussion of represented as dorm life has an credibility of the article at "zero"fiction written by students as well effect on a person's perspective of and hope that their sociologyas well-known authors. 
campus life as a whole. instructor did likewise. 
Tests and set papers would be The author's state they "feel the Chutes M. Allberry, CPA stultifying and pedantic in such a 

sample is representative of the Oassof'75scourse as they would be in an 
different class levels" and that
amateur (in the best sense) art 
they questionaires were given to
class, a poetry or essay writing 
"an even number of males and
course, or other courses designed females." lf the universe being O'Neillto enlarge the imagination and 
sampled is not evenlv divided
cultivate artistic or literary· skills. 
between males andfemales(and we
In my class, the stories which know it is not), why was the sample Inaccurate students write and share with one 
biased through.such a split. This
another are the tests as well as the certainly is not representative. Deu Editor:texts for the course, and at the end In order to move on to other On February 8 the Observerof the semester each student has arguments let's assume (and I published a letter written by Tomproduced his ·own collection of believe it to be a very poor O'Neill which contained two seri­fiction; the group collectively has assumption) that the sample size is ous and, I believe, unjustifiedproduced the equivalent of a sub­adequate and the sampling techni­accusations.
stantial anthology. 
que acceptable. When dealing First of all O'Neil claims that theYour article states that my with statistical analysis some of the Observer was ''party to the type ofcourse requires each student to most important facts are found in corruption and suppression usually submit only three short pieces of the statistics which are not given or associated with Nixon era Poli­fiction to be discussed in class. 
are not emphasized. For example, tics." He also stated that "theActually, the course requirement of the authors point out that 82 percent tape of the meeting which thethree substantial examples of fic­of the surveyed students are not Observer has, reveals that theretion writing is a absolute minimum, involved with "HTH's", However, was no discussion as The Observerand most students submit five, six, that means that 18 percent or 1 out reports." O'Neill obviously be­or more major written pieces of 5 people are involved in such a lieves that The Observer hadduring the semester plus shorter situation. Also I would ask, how definitive proof (the tape) that hissketches and writing experiments. 
does this 18 percent breakdown views were correct and that TheStories are not only discussed in between male and female? If most Observer, or rather I, chose toclass in a workshop setting, but of this group are female, the ignore it. No one from Thestudents meet periodically with me 
male-female ration is further Observer taped the meeting or had
to discuss their work and to explore effected _ access to any such tape when theideas for future stories. In addi­Another element of this article story was written. O'Neill sawtion, as suggeted by stories read in which concerns me is method of someone tape the meeting andclass, short exercises are assigned attaching the complied date to the assumed that he was from Thein such techniques as stream-of conclusions. Unsubstantiated as­Observer.
consciousness, symbolism, sumptions run rampant! For Secondly, O'Neill accuses me ofdialogue and characterization. 
example, the authors state, "If failing to report "accurately" andExperimentation is encouraged, people on the whole wanted a more "objectively." He bases thisand so are revisions. 
serious relationship than mere accusation upon the phrase ''TheAthletes have rarely enrolled for dating would incorporate, then Congress also considered..." the course, but those few who have surely they would want to live which from his point of view isI've regarded not as "jocks" but as within at least striking distance of inaccurate because the "council asstudents seriously interested iti their 'loved one' during the times a representative body did nottrying their hand at a type of 
exist." O'Neill probabiy feels that "Gassman also considered" would have better wording. But to a dispassionate observer "The Con­gress also considered..." is an accurate description of the action which occurred. The story is inaccurate only in so far as it disagrees with Tom O'Neill. 
I feel that Tom O'Neill owes me an apology for his own inaccurate reporting and distortion of the facts. 
Dave Rumbach 
O'Reiley Insults Millions 

Deu Editor: 
Uniortunately Tim O'Reiley com­mitted a common error among Western peoples in his article "Budapest Night," in Friday's issue of the Observer. His othe'"­wise commendable column about 'Magnificent Meals in Michiana' erroneously referred to Hungarians as being Slavs. Contrary to popular belief, the Hungarians, though dwelling in a sea of Slavs, are not of the same origin. Hungarians, or Magyars as they are often called, migrated to East Central Europe from Asia in the 9th and lOth denturies. Their conquests drive a permanent wedge between the North and South Slavs, who had occupied the region several cen­turies earlier, thus accounting for their presently awkward location. 
From the Middle Ages until1918 many Slovak, Croatian and Serb peasants bore the heavy-handed oppression of the Magyar mag­nates (large landowners). A ve­nomous animosity between these peoples developed which has con­tinued to the present day. Calling someone of Hungarian origin may be taken as an insult if he is a Magyar chauvinist, or vice versa. Gypsy violins and accordions might have excited hot Slavic blood, but not in jovial manner cited in the 
article. 
Michael "Doc" Kopanlc 
Slovak nationalist 
Lee Maiors for Fellow 
Deu Editor: 
Since Notre Dame is one of the 
most sexually maladjusted univer­sities in the country, it seems to me that aHarry Reems or John Holmes would be the perfect Senior Class 
Fellow. Fortunately, the women at Notre Dame are not as sexually maladjusted as the men. Isn't it disgusting that the men at a fine institution like Notre Dame would want to meet a "sexy air-head rather than someone as intellectu­ally stimulating as Muh~mmed Ali, or as exciting as Alexander Solz­henitsyn. 
One argument against Farah Fawcett's nomination is that she doesn't embody the true Notre Dame spirit, which I suppose is true since she is extremely good looking, doesn't play football, and stars in a television show that obviously fails to represent the intellectual seriousness or social concern that all of us here at Notre Dame should maintain. Besides, she only says the rosary once a day. 
Using hindsight, the Sf'"io~s who tried to nominate Farah Fawcett weren't very smart in doing so. They should have nominated Lee Majors as Senior Class Fellow and 1.sked him to bring his wife along. 
Kurt Gotta 

LETTERS POLICY 
Letters absolutely must be signed with the author's name, although the name will be withheld upon request. Letters should be brief and concise and, if at all possible, typed. They represent the author's opinion, not that of The Observer. 
writing which is not always as easy as it looks. 
Regular attendence tells me that my students find the course meaningful and pleasurable, and learning which is pleasurable is not necessarily educationally wasteful. 
E.J. Brzenk Associate Profeasor, English 
Dating Stats Wrong 

Dear Editor: I have just recieved my copy of The Observer in the mail and fLllishcd reading the feature article "The Dating Game at Notre 
MK. H/IKR/5, I'o UK& 70 TAU< 7iJ '10/i AfJOlJTAU~ 
CI.ASSESlOtfni 
86EN.. 4, 
HEY, f)()C I KNOID .t~ BEEN 
MISSIN6 iWK 
lECTlRES. ANO I'M JlJ5TSICK. / A801JTIT/ 



Thursday, February 10, 1977
the observer 

SlF 77: A preview by Kathy Ryan 
Mapping the Mystery 
This challenge by William Goyen, Wed­nesday's Festival speaker, to view exper­ience as it maps itself onto the contours of life is an endeavor endeavor assumed by the poets, novelists and artists who will visit Notre Dame during the coming week. Each individual artist stands out as a unique point on the immense map they spread before us. One by one they sketch for us the outlines and details of distant origins, far-awar lands, forgotten lifestyles and new worlds. Through their words and rhythms they challenge us to travel . with them into unknown worlds of the mmd. There, the map is unclear; only the outlines are drawn. As travelers, Goyen and all the 1977 Sophomore Literary Festival speakers challenge us to scrutinize this map of the mind, where, indeed, "all things are linked together.'' 
SUNDAY' FEDRUARY13 
8:00 PM KEN KESEY WASHINGTON HALL 

"You think this Is too horrible to have really happened, this is too awful to be the truth! But please. It's still hard for me to have a clear mind thinking on it. But It's the truth even if It dido 't happen." 
Randall McMurphy, the hero in Ken 
Kesey's novel One Flew Over the Cuckoo's 
Nest, communicates what has become for 
Kesey a picture of contemporary society 
where fear has threatened sanity and given 
way to confusion. Indeed, life is often 
"too horrible to really have happened," 
and the frequent elements of fantasy 
employed by Kesey in his novels are the 
vehicles through which he communicates 
the vision of a society bent on the cre.ation 
of an illusion of rationally. 

One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest 
challenges the reader to analyze his views 
on reason, rationality, and sanity and t 
re-examine their place in society. McMur­
phy threatens our complacence with a 
simple but frightening view of what 
modern society has come to be: 

"This is what I know. The ward is a factory for the Combine: It is for fixing up mistakes in the neighborhoods and in the schools, and in the Churces, the hospital is. When a completed·product goes back out into society, all fixed up good as, better than new sometimes, it brings joy to the Big Nurse's heart••." 
Ken Kesey, educated at the University 
of Oregon and Stanford University, goes 
beyond the questions of rationality and 
sanity in his writing. He is more basically 
concerned with the "fabulous kinds of 
good and evil" which face men in 
contemporary society. In Kesey's mind 
this confrontation goes back to the myth of 
the original white man fighting against the 
''encroachment of civilazation, '' a frequent 
theme in Kesey's fiction. 

In the middle sixties these forces lead ~esey to a lifestyle which attempted a 
"comic book existence," where he and a 
group of contemporary artists, "The Merry 
Pranksters" rejected average lifestyles. 
Their antics gained them much noteriety in 
the media and in a work by Tom Wolfe 
entitled "The Electric Kool-Aid Acid 
Test." During this period Kesey wrote his 
second novel Sometimes a Great Notion 
and a collection of essays, Kesey's Garage 
Sale. 

Currently, Kesey lives on a farm in 
Oregon where he has returned to an 
exploration of the modes of fiction. 
MONDAY,FEBRUARY14 
8:00 PM DAVID IGNATOW LIBRARY AUDITORIUM 

"While you offer me smiles I submit 
poems for your pleasure. 

What was your question 
at the door about to let me pass And Is that 
all? 

I who never dreamt It, added, reading your 
smile 'I write poems. " "Origins" 


For we haue been giuen aworld to liue in­make life amap, aworld where all things are linked together 
William Goyen 

Throughout the many social and per­sonal concerns demonstrated in his poetry, David lgnatow has struck a penetrative note of sensitivity with grace and clarity. Ignatow began his career as a free lance writer and editor at the New York School for Social Research. He then taught at various univeristies, among them, Univer­sity of Kentucky, University of Kansas and Vassar College. lgnatow was named poet-in-residence at York college of City University of New York and has won many other awards, including the National Institute of Arts and Humanities Award in 
1964. In his writing and teaching he has explored the realm of poetic method: 
" I feel along the edges of life 
for a way 
that will lead to open land." 
lgnatow began his pursuit of "the'open land" with a concern for the ways of urban existence in The Gentle Weight Lifter published in 1955. The nightmares of urban life and the anguish of city-dwellers are influences which remain central to Ignatow's later works. Next, lgnatow moved to a surreal representation of social concerns combined with a growing interest in personal issues. In Say Pardon, Figures of the Human and Rescue the Dead lgnatow turned to personal, emotional experiences as the source for his poetry: 
"To me, the act of writing is gesture of Independence. I write with the thought of gaining control over my materials and over myself. With this achieved, I feel free once more to return to the balance and poise I prefer in my life, providing the poem of that moment has released me from the pressure, to my satisfaction." 
Currently editor-at-large for The Ameri­can Poetry Review and Arts and Letters Professor at Columbia University, Ignatow has recently published a collection of prose-poems entitled The Notebooks of David lgnatow and a volume of poetry, Facing the Tree. 
WEDNESDAY,FEBRUARY16 
3:30 pm NAOMI SHIBAB AND SAM 
HAMOD . LIBRARY AUDITORIUM 
8:00 pm WILLIAM GOYEN LmRARY AUDITORIUM 
Writer-in-the-schools for the Texas Com­mission on the Arts and Humanities, Naomi Shihab, a poet and songwriter, con­ducts writing workshops throughout the state. A graduate of Trinity University in San Antonio, Texas, her first volume is entitled Tattoed Feet. Her songs have been recorded by several groups, among them Meisburg and· Walters whose title song "Just Like a Recurring Dream" was written by Miss Shihab. 
Sam Hamod, poet and professor at the University of Michigan-Flint, has publish­ed several volumes of poetry, among them After the Funeral and The Famous Boating Party. His volume Moving received the Ethnic Heritage Award for 1977. 
Storyteller William Goyen, professor at Rice University and twice recipient of the Guggenheim Fellowship, reveals his in­tense interest in the art of short fiction. In the many novels and short stories which recount his childhood in Texas, Goyen joins his poetic art with the art of personal re­flection: 
•.... • ...... ~ ~ ... ~ ~ ..· • ...... ' ..."'•··~·....... ~-~ .... ,.. •.. ,_ ._....·.:••• •.;..'J,.......... '!..·->;...•..:.•• 
That people come Into the world in a place they could not at first even name and had never known before; and that out of a nameless and unknown place they could grow and move around In it until its name they knew and called with love, and call It HOME, and put roots there and love others there; so that whenever they left this place they would sing homesick songs about It and write poems of yearning for It, like a lover••• " 
In The House of Breath, Goyen's mos famous novel and winner of the McMurra• Bookshop Award in 1950, Goyen recalls hi; childhood in Charity, Texas. Through at imagery characteristic of free form poetry Goyen creates the atmosphere of a worl< forgotten , a lifestyle left behind. The House of Breath is a psalm which praises with tender emotion, the lingering joys o home: 
"In you, Charity, there stands now, as II the globed world of my memory ther« glimmers the frosted image of It, blown by all thesebreaths, the fallen and splendid house, sitting on the rising piece of land, out of which all who lived and lost In It havE gone, being dispossessed of it: by death, by wandering, by turning away." 
In his other novels, The Fair Sister, ThE Faces of Blood Kindred and In a Farthet Country, Goyen presents characten branded in the memories of his youth. Hi~ combination of reflection and remem· brance demonstrates a personal view abou1 the passage of life, carried throughoul Goyen's works: 
"And to find out what we are, we mus1 enter back into the Ideas and dreams ol worlds that bore and dreamt us and then find, waiting within worn mouths, thE speech that Is ours. • • For all that Is los1 yearns to be found again, remade and given back throught the finder to Itself, speech found for what is not spoken". 
THURSDAY,FEBRUARY17 
3:30 PM STEVE KATZ LmRARY AUDITORIUM 
8:00 PM WILLIAM BURROUGHS LIBRARY AUDITORIUM 

Steve Katz is a writer of short fiction in residence at Notre Dame and a member of the Department of English. Katz has published a number of short works, the newest of which is Moving Parks, schedul­ed to be released this spring. "There Is only one thing a writer can write about: what Is In front of his senses at the moment of writing ••• I am a recording In· strument,.•• I do not presume to Impose "story" "plot" "continuity"••• I am not an entertainer•••" 
The activities and writings ofWilliam Burroughs traced through his colorful ;ast become the chronicle of the spokesman for the "beat generation" of the late SO's and the 60's. Burroughs has been sighted by many contemporary writers, among them Tennessee Williams, Allen Ginsburg and Norman Mailer, as the one artist who has most effected the avant-garde movement in contemporary literary thought. In his own mind, Burroughs' books show: 
"How-to-extend levf!ls of experience by opening the door at the end of the long hallway••• Doors that only open In SUence. 
" 

Burroughs' first novel, Junkie, traces his experiences through a 15 year period of narcotics addiction. Cured in 1957, Burroughs recalls through fragmentation as technique the nightmarish quality of thought and idea which befall the junkie. More than merely a record of events, Junkie and his other novels Naked Lunch, The Ticket that Exploded and Nova Express, emphasize the many dangers of man's inherent vulnerablility. Burroughs employs metaphors of drugs, police and language to portray the power of· forces which attempt to control man. In Burrough's mind, man is not responsible for his actions once these forces gain control over him. 
Burroughs' novels are slapstick com­ments, almost vaudvillian in nature, on the carnival-like quality of the world of the addict, and ultimately, the world of contemporary man. His other novels, The Wild Boys, Minutes to Go, and The Soft Machine, demonstrare these same themes. 
A graduate of Harvard and the University of Vienna in medical studies, Burroughs has taught at City College of New York and New World University in Switzerland. Burroughs has traveled extensively in Europe, South America and Northern Africa and is currently working on a manuscript entitled Cities of the Red Night. 
FRIDAY,february 18 
8:00 pm MICHAEL BENEDIKT LIBRARY AUDITORIUM 
Michael Benedikt has traversed the many roads of the poetic impulse, its genres and its related activities. In addition to his own writing, which represents various conti­nental influences, he is an editor and translator of surreal and prose poetry as well as the anthologist of a volume of Thursday, February 10, 1977 


the observer 7 
--------------------------~~ 
modern world drama. The varied "~'""''"'~ of Benedikt's creative nature have forth in his poetry, which attempts portray the relationship between the and the event, between matter and spirit: 
"Some intense event dictated a poem; Poem and event had cqme closer than 
before. It is as if, in passing, The event had pressed .tgalnst the page 
\nd its very shape left a mark. • • " 
The many schools of artistic and thought have significantly nedikt's thought, but have not ed his person~! sense of form and He writes about events which nene1tra,te self, developing a stylistic reJJreserita1tion all his own: 
1ches of the things upon which press Outch back now; we reach out in thought And feel their hands in ours And together we walk down the long between sommerUt trees". 
Currently the editor of The Paris Revie"' Benedikt is the author of Sky, The Body and Mole Notes, his newest collection of prose poems. Benedict's captivating verse succeeds in presenting a free mind wandering through the words, images and metaphors of thought: 
"Also, somewhere near here, a mind must be moving freely through the tunnels of metaphor." 
SATURDAY,FEBRUARY19 
8:00 pmDENISE LEVERTOV LIBRARY AUDITORIUM 
"When love, exaltation, the holy awe Poetry entering your doors and lifting you 
on one finger as if you were a feather fallen from its wings, grasp you, then your face is luminous." 
Denise Levertov has captured in imaginative, rhythmic poetry the perennial instinctive impulse to wonder, to sing, to celebrate life. Her attentiveness to concrete impulse and emotion of everyday life combine with her imagery to depict, in art, intimate experiences. Levertov's concern for the sacred relationship be­tween form and content in poetry is responsible for her success, for she has captured this tender relationship: 
"I beUeve content determines form, and yet that content is discovered only in form. Like everything living, it is a mystery. • • I do not believe that a violent imitation of the horrors of our times is the concern of poetry••• I long for the poems of an inner harmony in utter contrast to the chaos in which they exist." 
In addition to Levertov's sensitivity to the "making" og her art, her poetry expresses a praise for the ways of nature and their entry into the lives of men. Due to their musical quality, her poems, indeed, be­come psalms, prayers which laud the workings of nature: 
"H August passes, 
Dowerless 
and the frosts come, 
will I have learned to rtejoice enough 
in the sober wonder of 
green healthy leaves?" 
Born and educated in Essex, England, Denise Levertov became an American citizen in 1956. She has been the p(}Ct-in-residence at many universities, among them Drew University, City College of New York and Vassar. Miss Levertov initiated the Writer's and Artist's Protest against the Vietnam War in 1967. Most famous among her many works are The Jacob's Ladder, The Sorrow Dance, 0 Taste and See and, her latest work, Freeing the Dust. 

by Gregg Bangs 
Common to all art forms, from architecture to literature to pain­ting and sculpture, the impetus behnd a creative musical com position is an expression of the artist's innermost feelings, framied within a clasical or traditional context. 
Such expressions are evident in both the text of the performance and the spirit in which it is played by the musicians. 
Eugene Fodor, the first Western violinist to share top honors int he ioternational Tchaikoqsky Compe­tition, appeared with the South Bend Symphony Orchestra, con­ducted by Herbert Butler, at the Morris Civic Auditorium this past Saturday night. 
The twenty-seven year old Fodor has been a soloist most of his lifeD he played in front of the Denver Symphony at age eleven. ''Being a soloist is the finest expression of your art," Fodor says. It was evident from his facial expressions and intense concentration tht Mr. Fodor was totally engrossed in his music. As an actor takes on the part he is portraying, Mr. Fodor seemed to be physically interpret­ing the music he performed. 
Khachaturian's Concerto for Vio­lin and Orchestra offered Mr. Fodor an excellent opportunity to bring out the dramatic, romantic and expressionistic feelings that the three part piece calls for. Delicately balanced within a classi­cal framework, contemporary mus­ical motifs abetted the deliverence of the expressions of the composer. 
This selection was well adapted to Mr. Fodor's astute showman­ship. 
Khachaturian's Concerto was the intermediary piece between two exceptional performances by the South Bend Symphony Orchestra. Under the direction of Mr. Butler, Beethoven's Opus 84 was perfor­med in the subdued manner inten­ded without losing any of the courtly drama which served as the basis for the composition. 
After collaborating with Mr. Fodor, the Symphony returned to the finale, the first symphony of Mahler, in which the progress of the local symphony could clearly be distinguished, as compared with three or four years ago. Perhaps not flawless dynamically, the room for improvement continues to dim­inish under the leadership of Butler. Excitement was generated from the music and the perfor­mance. No one dare call the South Bend Symphony a mere testament to the cultural arts. It can stand as 
energetic and qualified congre­
of community musicians. 
Symphony and MOrris Civic
nrlit.............. continue to be the 
ot cultural life in South 
The expressions of our 
are protected within this 
cultural environment. The 
of a civilization finds security 
as long as this environment 
for it is music that mirrors 
aesthetic image of our age. 
Significantly, the young figure of 
Fodor giving energetic life 
a traditional and relatively older 
dience, music and society, is a 
sign for the future of 
Have You SeenThis Man? 

Tom Waits 
who sings of waitresses, strippers, and old cars, of down and outs who are into muscatel and gin, and of late nights and smokey barrooms is back with 
"Small Change" 
his fourth album on Asylum Records. Waits' music is a lesson in reality with its bluesy, jazzy and cool presentation of pain, poverty and perversion. "Small Change~' a small price to pay for a contemporary talent. 
Tom Waits' new album, "Small Change~ on Asylum Records and Tapes. 
• Produced by Bones Howe for Mr. Bones Publications, Iuc. 
919 College Square RECORDS Across from Town & Country Shopping Center Hours: Mon-Sat 10-9 p.m. Sun 12-6 p.m. 
I 



by Mike Moses Staff Reporter 
New York City is offering full­time internships in the city's government offices for the 1977-'78 academic year. 
The Urban Fellows program is open to under-graduates entering their senior year and to graduate students. Out of 40 semi-finalists, who will be invited to New York ity for interviews with all expenses paid, 20 college students will be selected to serve as Urban Fellows, beginning September, 1977. 

Each Fellow will be assigned, to work on various projects in the 
mayoral administrative problem­

solving, research; policy planning, 
and related management areas. 

The Urban Fellows, reporting di­rectly to mayoral officials, includ­ing heads of agencies, will work in such fields as planning, criminal justice, service delivery, economic and financial administration and 
Higgins to join pilot roster 
by Kate Flynn 
Staff Reporter 
Air Force officers told Lt. Mary Higgins that her application for pilot would be kicked out of the computer, but she insisted that she wanted to fly. Today she is one of

r 
the first six women candidates for

I 
Navigation School in the history of

' 
L the Air Force. Responding to questions from Captain Finan of Notre Dame Air Force ROTC yesterday in Hagar Auditorium, Lt. Higgins told a full house of Air Force ROTC students, "I think women should have been in the cockpit a long time ago. Flying doesn't seem unusual to me.'' Higgins, who majored in chemis­try at Xavier College in Chicago, joined ROTC at Illinois Institute of Technology for two years and· is presently stationed at Grissom Air Force Base as an air traffic control­ler. She is one of the six women selected from 43 candidates who will enter Navigation School at Mather Base in Sacramento this March. Higgins said she feels relaxed 
Primus talks on Jewish theology 
by Jake Morrissey 
The "Land of Isreal in Early Rabbinic Judaism" was discussed last night by Dr. Charles Primus, in a talk relating Jewish religious beliefs to Jewish daily life in ancient times. 
Dr. Primus, the Rosenstiel lec­turer in Judaic in the department of theology, spoke to an audience of mainly graduate students and fa­culty in the Galvin Life Science Center Auditorium in the second of a series of lectures entitled "The Land of Isreal in Jewish Tradi­
-tion." 
The lecture series is sponsored by the Center for the Study of Judaism and Christianity in Anti­quity in the department of theolo­
gy. Its purpose is to focus on the nature, development and continu­ity of Jewish attachment to the land of Isreal. 
Other scheduled lectures in this series include: "The Land of Israel in Jewish Theology" by Michael Wyschogrod on Feb. 22; "Eastern European Jewry and the Land of Israel," by Bernard D. Winryb, on March 8; "The Land of Israel in Modern Hebrew Literature," by Arnold J. Band on March 22. All three lectures will be in the Memorial Librarv Auditorium. The last lecture, "The Land of Israel in Jewish Art," by Joseph Gutmann on April 12 will be in the Galvin Life Sciences Auditorium. 
need resumes in a 
hurry? 

I 
•' . 
insty·pr•nls 
the wiz of the printing biz! 
rag bond 25-81/2 X 11 $2.55 
203 N. Maen 
SoBend 289-697 

about the up-coming nine months in Navigation School, although, as she mentioned, "it has one of the highest wash-out rates in the Air Force." 
"I feel that I'm relatively adapt­able to stress and ready to perform under pressure this March, whe­ther it's from the media or the Air Force," she assured. 
Higgins said she initially applied for pilot training but was not accepted because of an eyesight handicap. She says she has decided to apply for a waiver for pilot school in the future and hopes 
to 
be able to take advantage of !I. d 
r a a • ., 

a 

SlVALENTiNE'~ DAY 
-".ft( 
D I S C 0 ~~~~ 

MONDAY9 FEB.l'+ 
c,ontinuous Music. 4 -/1 pM --+~ Munchies and soda 
REMEMBER!!!--NEoNWILDE feb. Is fu:co~~.G-SEssiCX'!S NDeJAZZ cJM"-eS 
attentton sentors... 
last hundred days till 
graduation weekend 

Happy Hour

Friday: 
at Kubiak's 3-6pm pitchers $1.50 

Dog Book night Saturday: at the senior bar specials to be announced later 
reverse discrimination to secure a candidacy. 
When asked about the combat restriction on women, Higgins replied, "My becoming a navigator isn't justified--it's illegal, but I anticipate a law change very soon. Some day I may be in a combat situation." 
Higgins cited social demands and pressure from Congress as influences in the Air Force's deci­sion to allow women in Navigation School. At present ten women have already completed UPT (On­dergraduate Pilot Training). Hig­budgeting. 
gins said.  ·  
d  I 9::2  
•  •  

Urban Fellows will also take part, one day a week, in a program designed to provide them with a detailed picture of New York City: its people, its government and the issues facing them. This program will place emphasis on preparation for a career in city government. It will offer seminars with leading 
. government and non-government figures, simulation game sessions, tours, and visits to the people, places, and programs discussed. 
To be eJigible, students must be 
residents of New York City, live in 
a state within 1000 miles of New 
York City or attend a university 
within the same radius. Applicants 
must be registered in an academic 
institution at the time of application 
lind must have the endorsement, including a grant of academic credit for participation in the Fellowship, from the coll¢'ge or university they will be attending for the 1977-78 academic year. In addition, it is expected that each Fellow will receive a supplemen­tary grant of at least $500 from the college or university he is attend­ing, as well as a waiver of tuition for the academic year . 

Each of the 20 Urban Fellows selected to participate in the pro­gram will receive a stipend of approximately $4,400 from the city, plus round trip travel expenses. 
Applications which are available in the Placement Office, must be postmarked no later than midnight, Feb. 15, 1977. 
All applicants will be notified of their status by _March 31, 1977. 


Thinking about a NEW SUIT for Graduatixl & Interviews? 
BRING YOUR STUDENT I .D. 
DUBLIN HOUSE 
fora 
10o/o Discount 
Custan Fitted 3 Piece Suitings &Shirts 
$175 to $225 depending on your 
choice of material 
Short on Cash?--pay half now and the other half at graduation--no interest charges 
Grand Opening Apri~ 15 
Suite 2312 Am. Natl. Bank Bldg. 11 am-6pm ph. 288-6565 
stJustPa  f  t wallY's a  \.OCI(s, LIQUOR  
OPEN FRI. &SAT.  "'oR'-o  
TILL MIDNIGHT  South Bend Ave.  

277-3611 
6 -Packs 12 -Packs 
$1.19 $2.69 
Old Blatz 
Chicago Falstaff Gold Label 
Vodka $3~~­Rum 
$498Qt. 

Gin $399at. 
KentuckY. Tavern 

$549
Bourbon at. Guckenhiemer 
$495at.
Whiskey 


PARTY?!? 
Don't forget we're open 'till MIDNIGHT!! 




Q:Where on campus will you find a cigarette machine selling its contents for 55 cents? A: In the faculty club. Meanwhile, every­where else on campus, the price is price is 60 cents. (Photo by Debbie Krilich.) 
Chemistry courses offered during summer session 
Courses in organic and environ­twice each week. mental chemistry will be offered The environmental chemistry during the 1977 summer session of course, beginning June 20 and the College of Science at Notre ending July 8, is a three-week Dame. offering for high school and college 
Open to students and teachers teachers of general chemistry. The who have completed one year of 2 1/2-hour weekday classes of Dr. college chemistry, laboratory in­R.S. Bottei will include lecture-dis­cluded, the organic chemistry cussions, films, demonstrations course, taught by Dr. James P. and open-book assignments for Danehy, will cover two semesters persons taking the course for three of class work and will provide eight credit hours. credit hours. Extending from June Campus housing and food ser­13 to July 15 and July 18 to August vice is available to all summer 19, the course includes 90-minute session students. Additional infor­illustrated lectures Monday mation may be obtained by con­through Friday, two four-hour lab­tacting the session director, Uni­oratory periods weekly and volun­versity of Notre Dame, Notre tary problem-working sessions Dame, Ind. 46556. 
Newcombe speech slated 
Former Dodger pitcher Don programs for the National Alliance Newcombe will speak during an of Businessmen. One of the first open house program at 7:30 p.m. blacks named to a major league Thursday in the auditorium of the baseball team in 1949, Newcombe Memorial Library. The program is won rookie of the year honots and sponsored by the Alcoholism Coun­was selected for the Cy Young cil and is open to the public. Award in 1956. His 10-year major league career included 149 victor­
Newcombe is a member of the ies and 90 losses.
advisory board for the National The panel program with ques­Council on Alcoholism, director of 
tions and answers is part of the community relations for the Dodger Alcoholism Awareness Week, Feb­Corporation and director of youth ruary 6-12. 
Are you independent, creative, flexible, 
Join Father Bruce-a Paulist Father .. 
Father Bruce doesn't let his idealism go to waste ... or his love of God remain abstract. He's a doer-not just a dreamer. A man on the move-from his Paulist parish in downtown Manhattan over to The Juillard School of Music to talk to the students; across to Roosevelt Hospital to console the sick; down to the Tombs to visit the im­prisoned. You'll see him running with his guitar to meet his youth group (numbering over 100!) for prayer and recreation; or to conduct a longer retreat with teenagers and young adults. 
What motivates this young Paulist Father? His conviction that people can encounter God today-no matter what their ethnic group, economic class, or living environment .... 
Father Bruce joined the Paulists because he saw in them a unique chance to use all his talents in a free and creative way. But he did not want to work alone. He wanted a community; a fellowship of Catholic priests all committed to speaking the Gospel message in the many different idioms and in the many different ways it takes to trans­form our society. 
Coast to coast, the Paulists' scope is broad -from Manhattan to Greensboro to Houston to Los Angeles to Fairbanks. And so are their techniques-parish work, preaching, adult education, campus min­istry, publishing, mass communications. 
The joy and inner satisfaction Father Bruce experiences as a Paulist can also be yours. His unique gifts permit his personal con­tribution. Find out what your unique gifts can contribute. Discover our community. Tum your dreams into reality. 
----~ut~o~e~r~~~~t~~--­
Dear Father DeSiano: Please send me more information on the work of the Paulists and the Paulist Priesthood. 
Rev. Frank DeSiano, C.S.P. 
Director of Vocations NAME --------------­PAUUST FATHERS 
Dept. C·124 STREET ADDRESS ____________ 
415 West 59th Street CITY _________ STATE __ ZIP_ New York. N.Y. 10019 
COLLEGE ATTENDING----------­
CLASS OF-------------­

Thunday, February 10, 1977 
the observer 
Chapel Choir cuts record 
The Notre Dame chapel choir has its initial opportunity to hear the 1974 and has been published by cut its first record, "Song of Notre Dame Mass and the Notre G.l.A. The musical setting for Sunday,'' giving the_ general public Dame Vespers. . Vespers was composed by Isele in The mixed choral ensemble of 1975. Both works call for the some 60 students was founded four leadership of a choir with maxi­
Holscher speaks years ago by Prof. Sue Seid­mum partcipation of the congrega­Martin, its current director, and it tion. sings each Sunday at 10:45 a.m. 
on pioneer art Mass and 7:15 p.m. Vespers in The Notre Dame eucharistic and evensong liturgies will be sung by
Sacred Heart Church on the 
the Choir on its first tour, whichMarilyn Reed Holscher, educa-campus. 
will visit Cincinnati. Washington,tional coordinator at the Notre All of the sacred music in the Philadelphia and Pittsburgh be­
Dame Art Gallery, will present a album has been written by Dr. 
tween March 11-20. 
slide-lecture entitled "The Art of David Clark Isele, assistant profes­the Pioneers in Indiana" tonight at sor of music at Notre Dame. Both 
"Song of Sunday" is available at 
7:30. The lecture is the second in a Seid-Martin and Isele are alumni of 
$5 from the Notre Dame Hammes series complementing the exhibi-the Eastman School of Music at the Bookstore or through the Univer­tion "Mirages of Momory: 200 University of Rochester. sity's Department of Music in Years of Indiana Art," an exhibi-The -Notre Dame 'Mass was Crowley. Mail orders are $1 more tio~ presently at ~he Art Gallery, premiered by the Chapel choir in for postage and handling.
which traces Indiana's art from 

1776 to the present. ...---------------·-....
Holscher will trace the earliest£ U · S · 1 C · -· · \
Indiana art in her lecture, benin-•• ne Student mon oc1a ommiSSIOn mv1tes you to see. 
~~~~~~~ I 
the era of exploration and military 

'lh . 
activity. She will discuss Harmony,. I and will describe the life-style fo 
e Iz
the typical itinera~t painter in thel I early days of Hoosier statehood. 
Holscher spent the last two years I I researching and organizing thel 1 exhibition, and she will share many of her experiences as she searched. Award Winning Broadway Play 1 for Indiana's cultural past. The At the Schubert Theater in Chicagn lecture is open to the public. I I 
o·I~:u:h~e?~~11;{III. is located in I Friday February 25th I 

I Buses leave the Main Circle at 6:00 pm. 1
I I
Price: $19.00 per person 
1 Tickets go on sale Thrusday Februarv 1Oth. 1 I Student Union Ticket Office, 12 -4 daily I 
1 Quality seating and round trip bus transportation 1 
limited ticket supply but more buses will be I \ added. 
~---------------~ 
Navy Engineering Programs 
placement office 
Sched.uled interviews 
Feb. 14, 15. 16. 
More than just ajob -­It's an ADVENTURE!! 
\ 


Love that snow, comrade 
WASHINGTON AP -It's been Recent temperatures in Wash­Moscow does not experience the Buildings in Moscow are heated cold, very cold, in the capitals of ington have averaged in the teens fender-bender accidents, stalled by steam and sometimes are so the world's two superpowers this and 20s while Moscow's 11ave cars and traffic jams which inevita­warm that even cold-blooded year. But while Washingtonians hovered from zero to about 20. bly accompany Washington snow­Americans who live there have to suffer, Muscovites think its been a storms. Jpen the windows. 
But to be fair to the cold-dazed 
terrific winter. The natural gas shortage in the
residents here, Muscovites have Many residents of both cities
The average Moscow citizen United States has forced the clos­
had incomparibly more experience however, have the peculiar habit of 
likes to think he's similar to his in coping with severe winters, sweeping snow from sidewalks ing of factories and the general American counterpart but that lowering of thermostats. But the
which in the past have felled such ~with brooms. . Soviet women who
theory falls apart when freezing Soviets have no such worries. They 
invaders as Napoleon and Hitler. are employed for snow-clearing
weather strikes. possess one-fourth of the world's
When five inches of snow fell in chores use twig brooms. Some
At the first sign of plunging natural gas reserves.
Washington on Jan. 7, schools and Washingtonians use kitchen 
temperatures and snowflakes, 

offices were closed, traffic was brooms because they don't own aMuscovites exitedly get out their immobilized . The city was snow shovel. 
r----------------,I
cross-country skis, buy new shap­paralyzed. ih£ (nhmial , .• I
On the street; everyone in
kas, fur hats and sharpen their ice ·Unless a snowstorm drops more Moscow wears a hat, fur-lined orskates. Washingtonians sigh and· 

than a foot of snow, it's business as flannel boots and several layers of 1 111ancake H011s£ ·· 1retreat into hibernation. 
usual in Moscow. When the first· clothing, including a heavy coat.
Residents of the U.S. capital 

I T I
flakes fluttered down on sept. 24, In Washington, young women WILL GIVE YOU .
trade horror stories at cocktail 

fleets of huge snowplows fumbled trade warmth for fashion, wearing parties about frozen water pipes into action and have been going flimsy leather boots that slip andstalled autos and other cold-wave strong ever since, keeping the slide on the ice. Hats are not 1 $1.00 OFF 1experiences. At their parties, streets relatively free of ice and generally worn and the sight ofMoscow residents toast the wea-. 
ther with liberal quantities of snow. . shivering men, either coatless or loN THE PURCHASE OF 2 MEALS AT . I Because private cars are stiii wearing thin overcoats is not
vodka, celebrating the cold as a 

relatively rare in the Soviet capital, uncommon. 
IR_E~ULAR MENU PRICES W~TH THIS COUPO~ I L1m1t 1 per cu_s!omer. Exp1res Feb 16 ·· I
matter of national pride. 

Convicted Hustler publisher Larry Flynt J
US 31 (D•x•eway North) in Roseland 
-may be released pending .new trial 

L---~~w~~---­
CINCINNATI AP -A three-judge to the Columbus community by his law in its context" and no prece­The Social Commission presents state appeals court was deciding business and family. dent for appeal had been set in yesterday whether Hustler maga­
Flynt's wife, his brother .Jimmy state courts. 
zine publisher Larry Flynt con­"We've been getting a lot of
R., and magazine Vice President AIvicted on obscenity and organized 
VAn Schaik were acquitted by the telephone calls from around the crime charges for distributing his jury of seven men and five women country throughout the trial," Ha­magazine should be released on after four days of deliberations. milton County Prosecutor Simon bail pending appeal. 
Leis said. "They've been looking
A 1974 Ohio statute defines· 
BRUCE
Flynt's lawyers told the appellate at this case with great interest.
organized crime as any syndicate
judges at a hearing yesterday that purposely engaged to cotp.mit a "1 thmk we've set a trend among he had agreed to the panel's crime. It defines a syndicate as any county prosecutors to take the provision that, if he is freed on group of five or more individuals -initiative in this area" he said. Bus trip to Chicago Auditorium 
bond, he wold block distribution of ~eis, even before the verdict was
counting a corporation as an indivi­the magazine here in Hamilton dual -collaborating to engage in an . announced Tuesday, revealed an 
County during the appeals process. offense for profit. additional 12-count indictment Flynt and his magazine were Flynt's defense claims the con­against Flynt charging him with WEDNESDAY FEB. 23 convicted Tuesday of engaging in viction was invalid because only disseminating material harmful to 
a limited supply of tickets are 
organized crime and of selling two of the five were found guilty of minors. available, however if the demand the charge. Flynt also faces charges later this increases more buses will be added.
material judged to be obscene. He Defense cocounsel Charles Kaps month in Cleveland of pandering,

and the magazine were fined $11,000 each, and he was sen­said the statute is "rather a unique or distributing, obscenity. 
tenced to 7 to 25 years in jail. He TICKETS ON SALE AT THE 
was denied bail by the trial judge and taken immediately to jail. 

'Carter man of morals,' S.U. TICKET OFFICE 
The judges on the 1st District Ohio Court of Appeals had expres­

comments Castro to CBS 
sed concern that Hustler Magazine 

TODAY 
Inc. might resume distribution in WASHINGTON AP • Cuban of morals, a certain sense ot the area if Flynt were released. leader Fidel Castro says he be­morals, in compliance with his lieves President Carter is a man religious feelings and in his comp­
Following Tuesday's verdict 

with a "sense of morals" who may' liance with his convictions." PRICE $17.50
Flynt's wife, Althea Leasure had bring an end to 16 years of hostility He added that if Carter wishes to said defiantly that "We'll just sell 

between the United States and do so some day, "I will with 
more copies now." Cuba. pleasure talk with him.'' · (includes round trip & great seat) Flynt, 34, was being held in the 
In an interview with correspon­Nine days ago, Secretary of State -.~~il1lili!1ilr;liiljjt~lilji'Q~Iii;-Q~Qr;;-Q~I:'.I:-Qrt~~rt~~"'
Hamilton County workhouse and Cyrus Vance told newsmen that his 
dent Bill Moyers, broadcast on the
did not appear at the hearing at goal is to have normal relations
CBS Evening News last night,
appeals court. with all countries, and he is
Castro said he was pleased by 
prepared, "at this point," to 1
Carter's election. 
discuss normalization of relations
interview

'Punished uojustly' In a portion of the with Cuba without pre-conditions. 
omitted in the CBS newscast, 
I Classified Ads r/1
This represented a change from
Castro said he thinks it is possible
Attorney Herald Fahringer said the policy of the previous admini­
to normalize relations between
at the appellate hearing that Flynt stration, which had insisted on a I I
Cuba and the United States. 
was being "punished unjustly." complete withdrawal of all Cuban 1Will be sold at the North and South Dining Halls Fiiday I 
Castro ~aid he read with interest troops from Angola as a condition
"Until we've agreed oti this I & Saturday lnnch & Dinner; Sunday Lunch only 1
in Carter's autobiography "his for opening discussions with Hav­subject in a higher court the man ana.
sense of self-criticism and his sense I WORDS 1-10 11-15 16-20 21-25 26-30 31-35 36-40 H-45 46-50 I
should be allowed to be out on bail," Fahringer said. 
RATES 1.00 1.35 1.65 2.05 2.45 2.80 3.15 3.40 3.90 I 
His attorneys argued that Flynt I Use the form below to save time would not flee the area if he were released on bond because he is tied 
lu~ I
l MESSAGE [please print) I I I I I I I 
iI I I 
Insurance appraisals and purchases of fine diamonds and estate "jewelry provided. 
/1. 

"Graduate Gemologist: ;; Gemological Institute of .America ... 'Fellow Gemmologist: 
Gemmological Association of Great Britain 
.. ., 

II I
Cometowherethe "BA: Indiana UniversityKrunchis! I 
·. --~. ·~:)f. . 

St. Josep~ 0:~~k Bu'lding IShrimp <~~~ Fish South Bend, Indiana 1 ~ TOTAL I
-.n,_ & Chicken .., . j•. ·~ .,.. Chips Telephone: 287-1427 I "-..J Rec'd by I Krunch-Pup':'·'t ;)/ John M. Marshall's I 
~.,.....;. Chowder 
FREE refilly.··. 

COiamond .S)mpo~t Company INOTE: Valen•ine pers.. nals will be sold ai ihe Observer I
on all · ~lllri 

DRINKS · • Your Source for the Unusual ll)ffice un• il Friday al 5 p.m. Nt) V-day ads will be I
1~ 

_A. ..-accep•ed •m Sunday af•er 1:00 p.m. in the dining halls ...........-"".....................~...~:~:::;~t"~·.........4 ...~.................ol(;........ --~----·..••••••••·••w
.. 



Huge mounds of plowed snow 
I 

present parking lot problems 
by Ann Gales 

Large piles of plowed snow that have accumulated in the Notre Dame parking lots are now presen­ting parking difficulties and creat­ing hazards according to some students and staff members. 
A major complaint is that the snow piles, some nearly six feet in height, are reducing visibility and space in the lots. 
According to Adam Mcintosh, staff employee at Notre Dame, "The only hazard the snow pre­sents now is that we're running out of space, and as a result people are 
having trouble backing out." Mcintosh added that he observed one minor accident that occurred because of this problem Tuesday morning. 
Although visibility is good at the entrances and exits of the lots, the large mounds of snow that have built up between the rows greatly decrease visibility and make turn­ing in the lots hazardous. 
Another difficulty results from the fact that a layer of snow and ice approximately one to two inches thick covers the parking area in most of the student and faculty lots. "Yoli can't identify where the yellow lines are, so people are parking in a random manner," noted Notre Dame senior Mike Merrigan. 
Junior Rick Walton also consi­ders the random parking a problem "Because the cars are so unevenly parked, the main aisle in D-1 has become very narrow making man­euverability difficult," he said. 
When approached with the com­plaints of the students, Edwin Lyon, director of Maintenance at Notre Dame, explained that the ground crew is presently doing everything possible, pointing out · Although Lyon assured the coop­that "once the cars get back in the eration of the maintenance crew, lot it's very, very difficult to do Don Swain, foreman on the anything." Lyon was quick to add grounds, said that he didn't con­that the maintenance crews would sider the situation in the parking willingly cooperate with the stu· lots dangerous. "I really don't dents if concern on their part was think there's a problem with the great enough to organize a tempor­snow.." remarked Swain. "The ary removal of cars from the lots in problem is that the students all try 

order to permit plowing. Lyon also to park as close to the gate as they mentioned the fact that already this can. Just look in D-1. I'm sure winter an extra $4000 have been you'll find 100 spaces that are spent towards the removal of snow completely clear of snow and aren't Towering mounds of the white stuff are causing some motorists park­from the lots. even being used." ing problems. (photo by Debbie Krilich) 
NASSAU, BAHAMAS 
8 DAYS, 7 NIGHTS I $299 COMPLETE 
MARCH 12 -19 
• 
•

INCLUDES AIR FARE, HOTEL, ALL TAXES, TIPS, AND GRATUITIES FOR· EIGHT GLORIOUS DAYS. 
For More Information or Application, Contact 284 -4198 or Call Collect (312) 782 -1884 
Classified Ads  
NOTICES Wanna run your own bar? Juniors, applications are now available for positions of Senior Bar manager at the Office !)f Student Affairs (315 Admins. Bldg.) or the Senior Bar. Deadline: Feb. 16. Hurry! Greyhound Bus to Chicago leaves main circle every Friday at approx. 5:45. Call Tom at 8338 for seat reservations. Tickets for the Feb. 23 Bruce Springsteen & The E Street Band concert at the Auditorium Theatre in Chicago are now on sale at the River City ticket outlets: Just For The Record (1;; Center) and Boogie Records (College Square). MORRISSEY LOAN FUND $20-150. 1 day wait. 1 percent interest. Due in 30 days. LaFortune· Basement. M-F 11:15-12:15 Accurate, fast typing. Mrs. Donoho. 232-0746 Hours: 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. USED BOOKS. BOOK BARN 1 mile north of Notre Dame 272-5520. Papers professionally typed. Tele­phone evenings 272-8308. History Society Wine and Cheese Party tonight (Thursday) at 7:30 at the K of C Con-campus). All history lovers welcome!! The Neon Wilde Band: now avail­able for parties, concerts, formals, etc. Call 7996 9-5 or 277-3448 after 5. Last chance to send that secret love a sweet message on Valentine's Day. Only $.75 gets your honey a quarter pound of assorted candy. Come to 109 W a Ish. Will teach you flute in your spare time. Call Beth 8112. FOR RENT Walk to school . 5 bedroom house in good condition. Rent summer by room or entire house in fall. 1014 N. Eddy · reasonable. Call 233-2613 after 5:00p.m. Completely furnished houses rang. ing from two to seven bedrooms available for summer or next Sept. ember. Call 234-9364 Mrs. Hum. buger. Two bedroom house to rent. Sum­mer and-or school year. 1012 Eddy Street. 5120 mo. plus utilities. Call OODlES HARRIS at 232-8563.  5-bedrooms, 1.5 baths,· furnished house, walk to campus, renting for summer and-or fall. Call 259-7488 after 5:00p.m. 3 ROOM FURNISHED HOUSE WITHIN WALKING DISTANCE OF CAMPUS. RENT AND UTILITIES. ONE-HALF BLOCK FROM CAM­PEAU ST. CALL 232-8563. . 4 BEDROOMS, LIVING ROOM, DINING ROOM, KITCHEN. UTILI+ TIES PAID. $100 PER MONTH. CALL OSCAR 233-1850. LOST& FOUND Found: set of GM car keys in front of Flanner. Call Mike 1598. Lost: My anatomy notebook pro­bably in engineering aud. It's real important. Please call Tom at 288-9916. Lost: one pair of glasses at SMC after Second City on Sat. night. Call 288-7354. Timex gold watch with blue face and . :)Old' band; it is a calendar watch with .day of month only; if found call Brian 283-3793. Do you have my green coat? I have yours. Lost at an Off-Campus party last Saturday night. Call 5128 Cat SMCJ. Lost: Pair of navy blue knit gloves with rust buckskin on the backside. Lost near Holy Cross Hall & about 2 weeks ago. If found or know whereabouts call Cindy 259-2169. Lost: a circular yellow onyx earring between Sorin and the circle or on bus to Holy Cross, SMC. Great sentimental value. Reward 4-4374. Lost: Class ring blue stone & white gold. Inscribed: Frank Walters. Reward. Call 1177. Lost: Women's CCM figure skates in O'Shag. 30 yrs. old, new laces. Cathy 4770. WANTED Wanted: rug-12 x 14. Call 4-4122 Charyl. Ride needed. Desperately need one ride to Kalamazoo. Leave this Friday, Feb. 11, after twelve noon. Call 5170 CSMCJ. Need ride to Detroit Friday, Feb. 11. Call Joan 6841. Need ride to Cleveland any week­end. Call Fran 6865. ___ ...... ..  Need ride to Illinois State Universiey 4 fur coats -Mouton Lamb, Beaver,(Bloomington-Normal areal this Fri­Mink, Muskrat. Call 291-2258 mor­day, call Lisa 4-4563. nings. Wanted: Used calculator, full func­Custom 250 Bass Amp. top andtion. Call Tim, 3578. bottom 2 15" bass air cushioned speakers $500. Call 288-8192. For Sale: 1 student season basket­.Need housemate for 0-C. $60 a ball ticket -cheap. Call 5236.month plus utilities. 289-6929. Need two GA fix to So. Carolina· game. Call after 6 p.m. 288-0088. PERSONALS Need a ride to Ft. Lauderdale for E.T., . spring break. Will share driving & Your sheets are worn then I have expenses. Call Pat 1514. no doubt. For you've left a window in your painting out. Why does your face carry thatWanted: Rides to Ft. Lauderdale for strange RED hue.'break. Call Brian 1589 or 1516. Could it be on your birthdayNeed 2 tickets for North Dakota we're embarassing you?hockey game Saturday. Need 2 Long love the REDvolution.B-ball ticketx for So. Carolina. Call Bill 1867. IEMOT.You'lllove NOGERO Happy B-day, love Sweetheart F2Wanted: Senior girl to share fur­nished apartment in Chicago after EL, Call me after Nursing School.graduation. Call Deb (312) 357. Happy B·day, Love, Dick Speck3447. Lewisio's Restaurant Spaghetti Din­ner $1.50 Friday 7 p.m. Lewis Rec room. Tickets: $1.50. Call 7607. Need 2 So. Carolina tix. Please call Mary 1280. Singles only. Write Box 723 Notre Dmae. Enclose stamped envelope. Need· ride to Columbus Feb. 25 (Friday). Call Tim 1658. A.G. R. ?! America Game Room, silly people. Wanted: GA and student San Fran­cisco B-ball tix. Kevin 1816. Come see THE HIGH ROLLERS beat the Quiets Thursday night. Wanted: will pay good bucks for "HEY, THERE'S THE HIGH ROL­used desk and double bed. Call LERS" Dave 277-4855. EL, We've always considered you Need 2 San Francisco tlx. $$. Call one of the family. Happy B-day. Jim 234-8083 after 5 .. Love, Chuck Manson Dean Janke eats lemons for break­fast. Need 2 GA tickets to San Fran­Kathy, Happy 21st big sister! Don'tcisco game. Call "Big Money Murf" anytime. 234-8858. do anything I wouldn't do just because you're legal. Rosemary Am interested in renting garage space for my car close to campus. Want a good meal? Come to Call Billy, 283-3169. Lewisio's Spaghetti Restaurant.! Fri· day 7 p.m. Lewis Rec Room. $1.50 Call 7607.Need tickets for South Carolina. Call Tom 289-1485. Personal-Dennix D-have a Happy. Told you I wouldn't torget your B·day. When are you going to play at the Nazz again, you Red-NeckFOR SALE Mother? Anne Student Business Opportunity Own Sue, The brary was fun. Maybeyour own disco retail record shop . again sometime soon. Tomsold complete...$6,000.00 or best offer. Call 291-1512 or (312) 528· Hey John! Remember me? G4566 or (518) 465-8256. " ..,.. ,. ........., . ••• '!.._--.• ~  Swimmers! If you live off-campus and want to form a team for the Feb. 18 lnterhall meet, contact Mike Viiiani at 287-4898. All history nuts! There's a Wine and Cheese party tonight at the K of C at 7:30. Good wine, good company! Be there! Brades, You're finally legal .. six more months until it is legal. Love??? The Ever-present Dnagers CAMPUS MINISTRY WEST OF­FICES GROUND FLOOR OF BADIN NOW STUDENT OPERATED FROM 7:30 P.M.• MIDNIGHT SUN. THRU THURS. AVAILABLE FOR: SMALL GROUP MEETINGS, SOCIAL SPACE, STUDY, CON­VERSATION. S.M.C. Happy 5 mo. & Valentines Day. Love, J Are you a frustrated gymnast or want to learn some fundamental gymnastics? Come to the gymnas. tics workouts Monday and Wed· nesdays at 6:00, and Fridays at 4:00 in the Gymnastics room at the Rocke. Anne Hyatt, Roses are red, violets are blue, now that you're 20, Happy Birthdat to you. Love, Your roomie and the Gang. Room 40, What season is the Porthole closed for? TM T Needed: A lady with style, wit and a grasp of the essential absurdity of the human condition, which accord­ing to Ryan, may be expressed in the following terms: "Had Adam's rib remained in place, It would be by division That we renew the human race Instead of by collision. But, oh, how dull, the nights, the days, How passionless the dawn, If the amoeba's simple ways Engendered human spawn." Lady is, please, to phone Honest Bob Ryan at 289-9830, for lunch at Doc Pierce's. Check out the Village Inn's Bucket Brigade. (Hickory Rd. only) Mem­bership entitles you to 1 bucket of beer (2 pitchers), 3 S 1.00-off cou­pons for 16" pina, 1 personalized Metal Bucket to hang permanently from our ceiling with your name and date of membership. All for only $5.50  1  
1  

Duck paces Irish rout, 91-73 
by Bob Keen played scared. They beat us up. I intermission," Willimas stated. 
Sports Writer don't mean that as a criticism but Williams was equally devasta­
as a complement," stated Crusader ting on defense as he held Holy 
The Fighting Irish of Notre Coach George Blaney. ''They are Cross freshman Ronnie Perry to Dame. playing before an enthu­very aggressive and strong up just 11 points, his lowest season siastic sellout crowd last night, front." total. "I have great respect for soundly defeated the Crusaders In the second half the story Perry. but I had a height advantage from Holy Cross, 91-73. wasn't any different as Notre Dame and the crowd seemed to effect his 
Notre Dame out fired-up as Dave continued to dominate Holy Cross concentration," Williams empha­Batton hit a ten foot jump shot for in all aspects of the game. By sized. In fact, Perry made just four the first field goal of the game and midway through the second period field goals in 15 attempts. the Irish never looked back. "We Notre Dame had established an While Perry was turning in his got into the ball game really well 18-point lead. But the Crusaders worst performance of the season, right from the beginning. we had to rallied behind Pete Beckenbach Notre Dame's own freshman if we were to defeat Holy Cross,'' and cut the lead down to 11 points, guard, Rich Branning may have stated Irish Coach Digger Phelps. 66-SS with seven minutes remain­played his best game. Not only did "They are a fine ball club, but we ing. "Their press caused us to Branning score 15 points but he played exceptionally well tonight.'' make some careless turnovers and also added nine crucial assists, 
The Irish never trailed in the they never gave up," said Phelps. which constitute a career high for contest. With just over five minutes They would come no closer, him and a season high for Notre remaining in the first half the however, as their rally was thwar­Dame. Crusaders trailed by only three ted by a techincal foul on Holy The only bright spot for the points. 29-26, but a three-point Cross Coach Blaney. Notre Dame Crusaders was the play of junior play by Rich Branning Jed an Irish then took complete control of the Chris Potter, who had a team-lead­surge which gave them a comfor­contest building a 23-point lead at ing 25 points and seven rebounds, table 42-30 lead at halftime. 85-62. Holy Cross forward Michael Vicens 
One of the decisive factors in the Don Williams scored 16 of his added 13 points before he fouled­Irish victory was their fine board game, season and career high 26 out of the contest with over ten play. Led by Dave Batton's team pointsduring the second half hitting minutes left in the game. and game-leading 11 rebounds, on seven of nine shots from the Irish forward Dave Batton played Notre Dame was able to outre­field. "I didn't shoot well in the another outstanding game as he bound Holy Cross by a SO to 28 first half, but I kept my confidence finished second to Williams in margin. "I don't think that we and the shots started to drop after scoring with 19 points. Batton 
Smith: builder of ND hockey
by Paul Stevenson was appealing, so he resolved NCAA playoffs, and finished with a Sports Writer himself to a life of high school 
23-14 log.coaching. 
This is the sixth year for the Irish 
The Fighting Irish hockey team In 1968, Notre Dame wanted to icers in the WCHA and since a 1-3 is currently in second place in the start a hockey program. The Uni­start in the beginning of the Western Collegiate Hockey Asso­versity wanted a man that was season, Notre Dame has turned ciation and boasts a 16-7-1 overall willing to start from scratch and things around and are currently 
record. Just seven points behind build an admirable varsity sport. unbeaten in ten straight conference first place Wisconsin, the Irish are Irish officals informed Smith Games. playing excellent hockey, and this that he clould build the program as 
achievement is due in no-small part he wanted, competing on whatever "We though we'd have a good to the coaching of Head Coach level he desired. For their first few club," Smith commented. "But we Charles "Lefty" Smith. seasons Notre Dame battled divi­lost some key players due to 
Smith has been around the sion two and three schools. How­injuries at the start of the season. University since the origin of the ever, Smith wanted to move into Losing five out of six starters made Notre Dame hockey program nine major college competition. His goal it very difficult to adjust." years ago. In that time, Smith has was the WCHA. a conference 
However, time was short before compiled a career record of which has won 23 out of 29 national the Irish began their resurgence.
149-132-15. championships in college hockey. 
After a poor showing in their first The South St. Paul, Minnesota "The WCHA is the epitemy of two series, the pucksters travelled native was graduated from St. college hockey in the country,'' to Ann Arbor to split a pair with Thomas College in St. Paul. At St. Smith acknowledged. "My hope Michigan. Then with two additional Thomas, Smith participated in was to get involved in this kind of splits with Michigan Tech and varsity hockey and baseball (the program." 
Wsiconsin, the season outlook star­sport where his nickname "Lefty" In 1970, the Irish made applica­ted to brighten.
originated). To finance his educa­tion for admission into the WCHA. 
''That was really the turningtion, he worked at the local laundry Their first year was one of proba­point of the season," Smith remar­service. tion, playing WCHA teams, bunhe ked, "But it became more apparentSmith played defenseman for the contests would not count in the when we started to sweepTommies, and during that time, official standings. In addition, the series."
was named to three all-conference Notre Dame pucksters would not 
and four all-state teams. In 1951, qualify for the playoffs. This weekend the Irish host the 
Smith -began playing semi-pro Then in 1971, Notre Dame Sioux of North Dakota. The Sioux 
hockey for 12 years while working became the tenth member of the hold a 13-11 record and possess 
toward his master's degree in WCHA. In their first year, the Irish fourth place in the WCHA, seven 
guidance and counseling at St. compiled a 14-20 mark, good for an points behind the Irish. The Notre 
Thomas. eighth place finish in the confer­Dame pucksters will be looking for 
Before coming to Notre Dame, ence. their eleventh and twelveth games 
Smith taught and coached at South One year later, The Fighting without a defeat, while trying to 
St. Paul High School. His hockey Irish finished second in the WCHA close in .on number-one WiscQ11sin. 
teams earned him a 201-69-11 and Smith was named Coach of the With a man like Lefty Smith in 
record. He looked into a couple of Year. In that season, the Irish came control, this gives the Irish an 
college offers, but none of them within one goal of making the additional advantage. 


made nine of 14 attempts from the difficult for anyone to defense us." field, many of them from long 
Last night's victory raises Notre range. "Dave has great shooting Dame's record to 14-S while dropsability and by utilizing his size he Holy Cross to 18-3. 
was able to shoot over their 2-3 zone very effectively," Phelps The next game for the Irish will noted. be Saturday at home against South 
Carolina, whose record is 11-10''The physical aspect was the against very strong opposition.
turning point of the game. It causes "South Carolina always gives us a you to miss Iayups," lamented tough battle, you certainly cannotBlaney. "Notre Dame is the best judge them just on their record,''team that we played so far. They Williams said. 

are playing fine ball right now.'' 
The Irish shot almost SO percent as a team against the Crusaders as 

*Observer 
they extended their win streak to 
six games. Phelps' emphasized the 
importance of a team effort, 

Sports
"When we get good balanced 
scoring, like tonight, it makes it 

Grapplers take third spot 
The Notre Dame wrestling team Evansville and Valparaiso slated turned in its finest tournament for a double-dual home meet the 
performance of the year over the following day. Friday's meet will weekend, finishing third in the begin at 7:30 p.m. and the wrest­National Catholic Championships ling will commence at noon Satur­held at King's College in Wilkes­day. Both matches are in the 
Barre, Pa. John Carroll captured auxiliary gym of the A.C.C. and the event for the second consecu­admission is free. tive year, totalling 90 points while Irish rival Marquette was second at 81 V1. Notre Dame closed with 80 points: Swimmers win 
Notre Dame coach Ray Sepeta was accorded the honor of National The Notre Dame swim team took Catholic Coach of the Year for the both meets on its Eastern road trip second straight season and the last weekend. The Irish downed Irish also had two repeat champ­Western Ontario 59-54 last Thurs­ions. Pat McKillen, wrestling day and St. Bonaventure 67-47 down a weight at 142, defended his Saturday. The wins increased the title by stopping Nick Cipollo of Irish record to 2-3 for the season. John Carroll 4-3 in overtime. "It was a good team effort all McKillen had downed Cipollo in weekend,'' commented Notre last year's 142 title match as well. DameCoach Dennis Stark. "We Bob Golic, .Notre Dame's sensa­had eight swimmers post their best tional heavyweight, continued his times of the year against Western undefeated season (4-0) registering Ontario. Now, we are looking two pins and one decision en route for improved performances for the to his second straight title. remainder of the dual meet sche­
The Irish had four other wrest­dule before the Motor City Tourna­lers in the finals with Dave DiSaba­ment in March." to, a freshman 126-pounder coming The Irish had four swimmers win up with Notre Dame's other in their events in both meets. Ed dividual title. DiSabato was the Fitzsimons took the SO-freestyle Ohio Champion a year ago at 119 with times of 22.3 and 21.7, and enjoyed the finest performance respectively. The latter time set a of his Irish career over the week­new St. Bonaventure pool record. end. George Gedney, proving he Also winning in both meets were has indeed returned from his knee Joe Caverly in the one-meter dive, surgery, dropped a one-point deci­Mark Chiles in the 200-backstroke, sion to take the runnerup slot at and Dale DeBruyne in the 200­
118. A pair of John Carroll butterfly. All-Americans, Jim Wier and Brad Tom Hartye also established a Bowman, kept Mike Padden and St. Bonaventure pool record Satur­Rob Dreger of Notre Dame from day with a 49-4 in the 100-freestyle, the champion's trophy in the 167 just edging Fitzsimons. and 177 pound title bouts respec­At the Western Ontario meet. tively. DeBruyne won the 200-butterfly in 
Other place finishers for the 2:07.3 for his best time of the year. Irish, who had eight in the 10 the same was true for Chiles in the classes, were Bill Moore who 200-backstroke with a 2:04.4. captured third at 158 and Joe The Irish swimmers return to the Curletta who was fourth at 190. water at the Rockne Memorial Pool Curletta. a freshman, was making Friday afternoon at 4 against his Irish wrestling debut for Coach Way~e State. Ray Sepeta's team. The meet scheduled against Four dual meets are on this week's Marshall University for Saturdav schedule for the Irish grapplers. morning at the R~ckne Pool has After a Wednesday road trip to been cancelled due to the closing of Western Michigan, the Irish will Marshall in the present energy host Drake Friday evening with shortage. 






