
an independent student newspaper servi.rig notre d.ame and st. mary's Vol. XI NO. 126 Friday, May 20, 1977 · 
Farewe-ll Issue 


Senior Week Class of '77 

{Photos by Janet Carney) 
Friday, May 20, 1977
the observer 
-------------'----­

Campaign for Notre Dame seeks $130 million 
by Marti Hogan Editor-in-Chief 
The Campaign for Notre Dame, a five-year development program in­stituted toincrease the University's endowment, was kicked off at an inaugural assembly April 15. 

The goal of the campaign, $130 million is to "undergird our aca­demic future with dramatically in­creased permanant endowment,'' said University President, Theo­dore Hesburgh. 
At present, Notre Dame $108 million endowment is the largest of any Catholic university, but smaller 
The 

<:a•npaign
fOr 

N 


Dattte 
Thirteen to receive honorary degrees 
Notre Dame will award 13 honor­ary degrees--including one to the President of the United States--this Sunday at its largest graduation ""remonies in history. 
President Jimmy Carter will receive an honorary doctor of laws degree and give the address at the 

Former Senate Majority leader Mike Mansfield will receive Notre Dame's highest award, the laetare Medal, at this weekend's commencement ceremonies. 
University's 132nd commencement exercises, at which an estimated 2,177 undergraduate and graduate students will'receive degrees. Human rights will be the dominant theme of the-academic convocation because of the presence of three Catholic prelates who have led the fight against poverty and injustice in different areas ofthe globe--Paul Cardinal Arms of Sao Paulo, Brazil; Stephen Cardinal Kim of Seoul, Korea, and Bishop Donal Lamont of Umtali, Rhodesia. Car­dinal Arns is noted for pastoral innovations which have identified the Church with the masses of urban poor in Brazil's largest industrial center. Cardinal Kim has been a steadfast supporter of basic human liberties in a country governed by martial law for the last five years. Bishop Lamont was recently expelled by the White minority government of Rhodesia after being convicted of failure to report the presence of African nationlist guerillas in his diocese. 
Joining them on the platform will be Archbishop Jean Jadot, a Bel­gian priest who served in diploma­tic positions in several African and 
Asian countries before becoming 
Apostolic Delegate in the United 
States in 1973. 
National politics will also be well-represented, with recently confirmed Ambassador to Japan Mike Mansfield, who served as Senate majority leader longer than any other person, receiving Notre Dame's highest award, the Laetare Medal, and Speaker of the House Thomas P. O'Neill,Jr. accepting an LL. D. Also being honored are Arthur F. Burns, head of the Federal Reserve Board, and Dr. Percy A. Pierre, an alumnus and trustee of Notre Dame who recently left the position of dean of engin­eering at Howard University to become assistant secretary of the Army for research and develop­ment. 
Leaders in the fields of business, law, medicine and education re­ceiving honorary degrees are Cath­erine B. Cleary, chairman of the board and chief executive officer of the First Wisconsin Trust Com­pany; Prof. Jean-Baptiste Durosel­le, who holds the Chair of Contem­porary History at the Sorbonne; Dr. Robert H. Ebert, dean of medicine at Harvard university; Reginald 
H. Hones, chairman of the boad and chief executive officer of the Gen­eral Electric Company, and Prof. Philip B. Kurland of the University of Chicago, an internationally known legal scholar. 
Kurt Waldheim, secretary gen­eral of the United Nations, origin­ally announced as an honorary degree recipient, wil be unable to attend because of U.N. business. 
r%The Observerl 
Night Editor: Joey Bauer 
Asst. Night Editor: Joseph L. 
Bauer 
layout Staff: Chris Smith, 
Martha Jane Hogan, Maureen 
Sajbel, Jean Powley, Pat Hani­
fin, Rosaleen Muench, Mike 
Richter. 
Editorial layout: Maureen 
Flynn 
Features layout: Dave 
O'Keefe 
Sports layout: Paul Stevenson 
Typists: Kathy Mills, Martha 
Fanning, Maureen Flynn 
Day Editor: Barb & Katie 
Copy Reaer: Chris Datzman 
Ad layout: Steve Bonomo
lPhotographer: Janet Carney J 
than that of many leading indepen­
dent universities. Hesburgh cited 
the reason for increasing the 
endowment saying, "If you take 
the ten universities in this country 
with the largest endowment, you 
will have the ten best universities 
in this country." 
Almost 75 percent of the cam­

paign's goal, $92 million will be set 
aside for Notre Dame's endow­
ment. According to John T.Ryan, 
University trustee and chairman of 
the campaign, $57.8 million or 45 
percent of the goal, has already 
been committed to the program in 
advance gifts. 
"It's the most important thing that has ever been done at this University," said Hesburgh. He said he is confident that the drive will be a success. According to Hesburgh, Notre Dame people have "a divine dissatisfaction ifthey're not sure of the very best ... We're not only going to make our goal, we're going to surpass it." 
If the income received thus far for the campaign is any indication then Notre Dame may well go over the $130 million goal. By the kickoff almost half of the goal had been collected in pledges; over $15 million of that was pledged or contributed by the Board of Trus­tees. 
Edmund Stephan, director of the University Board of Trustees, sees an "enormous change in the in­terest and involvement'' of the Board in this campaign and states that the Board "has great confi­dence in its (the campaign's) success." 
The Campaign for Notre Dame grew out of the recommendation of the Committee on University Prior­ities (COUP) which reported in December 1973. The committee's recommendations were then form­ed into development goals after involved consultation with Univer­sity trustees, members of its advi­sory councils and leaders. The major portion of the endow­ment will cover named professor­ships, the Memorial Library collec­tion, student aid, campus ministry and a variety of research, educa­tional and service programs, expe­cially in the area of the Catholic Church. 
In addition to the endowment, $29.3 million is slated for physical facilities including a classroom­faculty office building, a chemical research structure, and an under­graduate residence hall. Also, ex­tensive renovation is scheduled fo the Administration Building and Washington Hall. 
The campaign also seeks $8.7 million in unrestricted funds to underwrite current operations. 
The initial stages of the actual campaign began in January 1976 when the University used a unique approach termed "the fly-in." In a series of 20 weekends, 120 friends of Notre Dame were flown in for a weekend on campus to observe how the University was progressing at the present time and to learn the "hopes and aspirations" of Notre Dame for the future. Later these friends, including trustees, alumni and members of the advisory councils, started the campaign with pledges or contributions. 
From that time the drive has been planned and organized by many people including John T. Ryan and Ernestine Carmichael, trustees and co-chairpersons of ht campaign; Jaines Frick, vice presi­dent for public relations and dev­elopment at Notre Dame; Paul Foley, chairman of the Committee on Public Relations and Develop­ment of the Board of Trustees; 
The Observer is published Monday 

through Friday and weekly during 
the summer session, except during 
the exam and vacation periods The 
Observer is published by students of 
the University of Notre Dame and 
St. Mary's College. Subscriptions 
may be purchased for $20 per year 
($10 per semester) from The Obser­
ver, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 
46556. Second class postage paid, 
Notre Dame. Indiana 46556. 
The Observer is a member of the 

Associated Press_ All reproduction 
rights are re.~~ry~<l-, . , 
Stephan and workers for the Na­tional Campaign Committee. One alumnus and campaign worker commented, "I'm sure the invasion of Europe was less well-planned.'' 
From now until October the National Campaign Committee, under the direction of Ryan and Carmichael will concentrate on major gifts -$50,000 to $100,000 ­from individuals, corporations and foundations. It already has 400 prospective contributers lined up. The campaign will run for five years and contributors will have five years from the time they pledge to fulfill their pledges. 
During the next two years, "vis­iting teams" will be traveling to 42 key cities in the country to solicit from "2000-plus prospects" who might contribute $5000 to $50,000. Hesburgh announced that the campaign ''will involve the whole country if not the world.'' Tele­phone calls and direct mail will be used in the campaign process, although personal interviews will 
be conducted as much as possible. As the ninth largest campaign now in progress in American universities, the Campaign for Notre Dame will more than double the $52 million goal set in Summa its last fund-raising drive, which concluded in 1972. Between 1960 and 1972, Notre Dame raised more than $108 million, much of which 
went to construct the library and the Athletic and Convocation Cen­ter (ACC). That total included $12 million in matching funds from the Ford Foundation through its "Spe­cial Program in Education," de­signed to create regional centers of academic excellence. 
Hesburgh noted that many other universities seem to be having difficulty with their campaigns, but that Notre Dame's fund raising drive has met with "enormous enthusiasm" so far. He added that there is still a good deal of work left to do. "We hope when the campaign is over, we will be ranked with the 10-15 top universities." 

C~SAMPLE~NE?FOUR 
.,.~.,. 
Galliano White Creme de Cacao Creme de Banana Generous scoops of ice cream blended, whipped cream, topped with nuts & dleny




fl...,__ 
~..­
V-8 Juice Orange Juice 
Rose Ume Juice­Pineapple Juice Chunks of tomato Grapefruit Juice Tabasm, Worcestershire sauce Ume Juice Vodka Ught Rum, Dari< Rum, 151 Rum 
Late Night Snack? Try a Selection from our Sandwich Board 9·1 am. Deep Dish ~--~ · . PanPizza 
~ ·~~ ~ 120NMainSt. Mishawaka 
------------------~-­

--~ --------------------------------------------------­
Friday, May 20, 1977 
the observer 

Administrators serve Notre Dame for 2-5 years 


by Barbara Breitenstein 
by Barbara Breitenstein possibly otherwise afford to pay the Executive News Editor Executive News Editor tuition to get to school. If we are to 
and and be one of the greatest university's Katie Kerwin Katie Kerwin in this country, we are going to 
News Editor News Editor have to have a much larger endowment." 
"Our concentration for the im­

"One thing always leads to The Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, mediate future will be on endow­
another,'' comments Rev. Theo­C.S.C., has been serving as execu­ment, rather than on the build­
dore M. Hesburgh, University tive vice president and treasurer of ings," Joyce stated. "The endow­
president, a philosophy which goes the University of Notre Dame since ment is a permanent help to the 
far in explaining Hesburgh's invol­1952. In addition to his overall University. You invest that and get 
vement in a wide variety of executive responsibilities, he is interest on it and that helps to pay 
educational, political, religious and also chairman of the Faculty Board faculty salaries and keep tuition 
human rights concerns throughout in Control of Athletics and the down." 
his 25 years as president of Notre University Building Committee. Joyce said he forsees financial 
Dame. Joyce said he has been heavily difficulties for many private col­
Hesburgh, one of the presidents involved all25 years in the financial leges and universities in the 1980's 
of major American univerities arrangements and involvements of because college enrollment has 
longest in office, is celebrating his the University because, in addition been predicted to be only 40 
25th anniversary a~ head of the to being the executive vice-presi­percent then of what it is now. 
University and four of every five dent, he is also the treasurer of the "Every private college could be in 
living alumni have his name on corporation. trouble. However, I'm optimistic 
their diplomas. "I have concentrated on the about Notre Dame because we have 
His career illustrates the many­financial aspects of the University a lot of good things going for us 
faceted role of a contempory leader and that has given Fr. Hesburgh here,'' he said. 
in American education, a role the freedom to spend most of his 
which highlights the increasingly time on the academic area. 
interrelated areas of education, Joyce called the time from 1952 
government and public affairs. In a to 1977, "a period of very dramatic 
national news magazine's annual and dynamic growth and probably 
poll of influential Americans, he is more so, relatively speaking, than 
the only person to have appeared any other college in the country.'' e 
among the top five in more than cited the fact that the budget has 
one field--religion and education. increased six-or seven-fold and 
Over the last decade, Notre Dame's that the endowment has risen by 
president has been involved in the $100 million during this time. 
national studies of race relations, · As chairman of the faculty board 
higher education, campus unrest, of athletics, Joyce has played an 
and a volunteer armed force. His active role in the development of 
most recent Presidential appoint­sports programs at the University. 
ment was to a nine-member boad He has served as Notre Dame's 
which administered clemency to faculty representative to the Nat­
Vietnam War draft evaders and ional Collegiate Athletic Associa­
deserted until September , 1975. tion (NCAA) for the past 25 years. 
Two major developments at Fr. Theodore Hesburgh [Photo by Dom Yociusl ''Athletics is very important at 
Notre Dame during his administra­Notre Dame and has been tradi­
tion were the reorganization of the tionally and we wanted one of the 
and you try to bring it back here,·· the late Bishop John F. Noll of Fort 
University's governance under lay top officials to have close contact 
he continued. "I think it's a big Wayne.
control. accomplished in 1967, and with the program and have a lot to 
influence on the beginning of new At the age of 35 in June, 1952,
the introduction of coeducation at do with it," Joyce explained. "I 
the undergraduate level in the fall courses on concerns here on how Hesburgh was appointed the presi­think it's been a verysound and Fr. Edmund "Ned" joyce 
you can achieve justice in an unjust dent of Notre Dame. His admini­sensible thing, because I think
of 1972. "Notre Dame is on the move. 
world.'' stration has marked one of the
Hesburgh indicated he viewed most institutions do not have think if this campaign is successful, 
the shift to lay control as a logical Hesburgh said he views his greatest periods of physical growth someone at that high a level in we would be able to move a notch 
interests outside the University as
and beneficial change. "We knew and internal academic development charge of the athletic program. higher, and I hope this will 
the way he has chosen to use his
the University would be relying in the University's 134-year his­We've had a very sound and honest continue in the years ahead. Since 
more and more on government, spare time. "It's sort of like a tory. Today he heads an institution program.'' our aim is to be one of the great
hobby--like some people play
corporate and private grants and with a campus of 1 ,200 acres, a Joyce expressed concern about Universities in the country and the saw incongruity of a university golf," he explained. He firmly distinguished faculty of more than the future of intercollegiate athle­world, what's happened in the past 
denied that his national and in­
worth $300 million technically seven hundred scholars, and an tics. Professional football and 25 years would lead you to believe 
ternational activities interefered
owned by a religious order vowed enrollment of some 8,800 students basketball, he said, "have become that we have the potential for 
with his job as Notre Dame's
to poverty.'' He called the action a from every state in the Union and so terribly popular that many of the achieving this goal."
president .
"good move" and added that he more than sixty foreign countries. schools have been hurt in their own Born in Honduras January 26, feels there has been "more concern "People don't realize that I'm Since Hesburgh became presi­sports programs. They haven't 1917, Father Joyce is the son of Mr. about the Catholicity of the Univer­never away more than 40 percent of dent, Notre Dame has erected two been able to attract the crowds they and Mrs. E.P. Joyce of Spartan­sity since the change." He called the time, and I don't stay away like dozen major buildings, including used to get, so that many schools burg, S.C. Following his gradua­the move a "prototype of similar other people do," he said. "If I the 14-story, $9 million Memorial have had to give up football. I'm tion from Spartanburg High School moves in the Church." work all day in Washington, I get Library which opened in 1963; a $3 concerned about maintaining col­he enrolled at Notre Dame where 
Hesburgh expressed the opinion back here and work half the million Computing Center and lege football. I think it's a wonder­he majored in accounting and that ''coeducation has added enor­night.. .I've been doing that for Mathematics Building; a $2.2 mil­ful sport and very beneficial to received a Bachelor of Science mously to the University. It is a years and I think I can literally say lion Radiation Research Building Notre Dame. It does bring in a degree (magna cum laude) in 1937. much better place today than it was that more than 100 percent of my built on campus by the U.S. Atomic considerable amount of revenue Father Joyce was then associated before it (coeducation) happened time is spent here because of the Energy Commission; a $1.5 million that helps to keep tuition down with the L.C. Dodge accouting firm and it's going to get a lot better." double shift." Center for Continuing Education; because it supports most of the in Spartanburg. He became a 
Hesburgh's leadership in educa­Hesburgh said he feels justified Lewis Hall, a residence for women; other athletic activities on cam­certified public accountant in 1939. tion in recent years has been in his participation in a wide range an $8 million Athletic and Convo­pus." Father Joyce entered Holy Cross reflected in his work as president of of activities. "Not only do I keep cation Center; Hayes-Healy Cen­Joyce went on to explain that College, Washington, D.C., the the International Federation of myself educated, but I get con­ter, the $1 million home of Notre while some of his time was oc­theological house of studies of the Catholic Universities, which he cerned about things, which even­Dame's new graduate business cupied with athletic matters, the Congregation of Holy Cross, in headed from 1963 to his resignation tually lead back to the University. administration program; a Science major part of his job is "simply 1945. He was ordained to the in 1970, and as a member of the Hesburgh added that he thinks that building, the Paul V. Galvin Life keeping this place solvent, having priesthood by Bishop John F. Noll Kerr-Carnegie Commission on the his role as a public figure has been Science Center, which includes the to balance the budget each year of Fort Wayne, Ind., June 3, 1949, Future of Higher Education, the beneficial to the University as a new quarters of Lobund Laboratory and trying to raise money to keep in Sacred Heart Church on the key national study group on higher form of public relations. "I think for germfree animal research and the place going. It's really a Notre Dame campus. education's problems and promise it's very helpful from the point of the departments of biology and full-time job," he continued. After ordination Father Joyce which completed its work in 1974. view of bringing attention to the microbiology, and a University "From a personal point of view, it's was named assistant vice president He was also a member of the select University," he stated. Club and two high-rise residence disappointing because I don't get for business affairs at Notre Dame. committe created by Governor Hesburgh was born in Syracuse, Halls. any opportunity, really, to be with He became acting vice president in Rockefeller to study the future of N.Y., on May 25, 1917, the son of Many of the new buildings as the students very much." the spring of 1950. His tenure in private higher education in the Anne Murphy Hesburgh and well as new academic programs Joyce expressed great expecta­this office was interrupted by a State of New York. Theodore Bernard Hesburgh, an were made possible by three tions for the outcome of the current year of advanced study at Oxford Hesburgh is· a former president executive of the Pittsburgh Plate successive developments programs . Campaign for Notre Dame, which University, England. He returned 
of the Association of American Glass Company. (A brother, James which have generated more than has set a $130 million fund-raising to Notre Dame in August, 1951 Colleges and a member of the Hesbnrgh, graduated from $100 million over the last decade. goal for the next five years. 1taking up his former duties until he board of trustees of the American Notre Dame in 1955, received his The latest captial gifts campaign I "I hope that we can meet that was elevated to the post of execu­
Council on Education. He was for M.B.A. from Harvard in 1960 and was completed in 1972, $10.4, quota that we set for ourselves, tive vice president. many years a director of the now is President of lntercole Auto­million over its $52 million goal. I which is $130 million, and I think Father Joyce has been a trustee Institude of International Educa­mation in Los Angeles). Hesburgh Notre Dame was also one of the ' that we all at this point, feel that we of the National Conference of tion and is a trustee of the has two sisters, Mrs. Robert first five select, private universities are going to be successful. My Christians and Jews, is a trustee of Carnegie Foundation for the Ad­O'Neill, Cazenovia, New York and chosen by the Ford Foundation _to 1 hope is that out of this will come a Junior Achievement and a director vancement of Teaching as well as a Mrs. John Jackson, Syracuse, New participate in its Special Program much larger endowment, because of the Institute for Educational director of the Freedom foundation York. A third sister, Mrs. Alton in Education. the thing we fear most is the fact Management at Cambridge, Mass. (until November, 1976). Lyons, Oneida, .New York, died in During Hesburgh's presidency a that the students, so far, have to He was appointed by President 
Hesburgh said he feels all his 1957. Both his parents are dead. Freshman Year of Studies and a · carry the burden of these constantly Eisenhower as a member of the activites are in some way related to He was educated at Notre Dame Sophomore Year Abroad were accelerating costs of education.'' Board of Visitors of the United his work as a university president. and. the Gregorian University in created. Curriculum revisions "Most private schools are highly States Naval Academy and was. "I'd say almost all ofthem get back Rome, from which he received a were made in Notre Dame's Law dependent on their tuitions. awarded the Exceptional Servict! to the University because the Bachleor of Philosophy degree in School, in Arts and Letters, Busi­Schools that are highly endowed Medal by the Air Force. He also University is involved in all kinds of 1940. He was ordained a priest of ness, Engineering, and Science, are in a better position, because an holds honorary doctorates from the knowledge and human concern. If the Congregation of Holy Cross in and a comprehensive study laun­endowment helps them do a lot of College of St. Thomas, St. Paul, you are involved all over the world, Sacred Heart Church on the Notre ched to determine the needs for , the things they do. But even more, Minn. and Belmont Abbey College you see a great need somewhere Dame campus June 24, 1943, by [Continued on page 12] it helps the students who couldn't in Belmont, N.C. 
Top stories of the Class of 77's tenure named 
suspension of all alcohol regula·

EDITOR'S NOTE: The foUowlng eluded in the day's activities were a 
of a controfled substance. Two of TROJAN SIGNS: USC
tions on campus, because of the

are the top 13 news events of the national media conference, a meet­the students were charged with the weekend 1975 produced more than 
past four years. In no particular ing with leading University presi­Indiana State Law which held the sale of amphetamines to police one skirmish as Dean of Students
University responsible for the con­

order, these are the stories re­dents, and a national press confer-James· Roemer had "offensive"
agents, while the third was charged
duct of those students who d.rank

ported by The Observer which we ence. with the sale of marijuana and . signs and banners with sexual 
on its premises. There were also

feel have had the most impact on THE 1974-75 ACADEMIC amphetamines. The Notre Dame connotations removed from Uni­
numerous raids on bars in the

the campus during this time. The CALENDAR: The Academic Coun­community was first made aware versity buildings at the request of 
campus area by the Indiana Alco­

past four years In sports are 
cil passed a Calendar for 197 4-75 of the activities of undercover vice University president Fr. Theodore
holic Beverage Commission. Uni­

reviewed on the sports page. which would begin after Labor Day, squad agents on March 10, 1976. Hesburgh; Edmund Stephan,
versity Counsel Dr. Philip Fac­

to the cheers of students, faculty Dean of Students James Roemer, chairman of the Board of Trustees 
cenda drafted a bill to relieve the

ARA'S RETIREMENT.: At the and staff. But the illusion of input who relea~ed the original informa­and other University officials.
University of legal liability while

close of the 1974 season, leaving where thin, and the actual calendar tion, suspended the three students Roemer was briefly charged with
Student Government leaders work­

with a 94-16-4 record, Ara Par­showe~ a minimal Thanksgiving despite earlier assertions that he forcibly entering a student's room
ed on student lobby to lower the

seghian announced his retirement. break tn the first semester, which would not "Do anything to pre­to remove a sign but was able to
drinking age to 18. After a

In his final showing at the Orange enraged many. "You can't make a judice the students' pendmg prove the charge false. Roemer
successful voter registration drive, 

Bowl, his team pulled through with calendar that everyone can be case." described Hesburgh's reaction to
representatives were elected who

a 13-11 victory over Alabama. happy with,'' said University Pro­the signs as "grim" and "white­
BUSINESS SCHOOL OVER·
were sympathetic to the student

Parseghian accepted a position to vost James T. Burtchaell. faced."
· CROWDING: Difficulties in secur­
lobby. The Faccenda Bill passed

work on "University Develop­BASKETBALL l'I{;KET BLACK STUDENTS' SIT-IN:
ing business electives and the
in April, 1975.

ment" in 1975. Dan Devine, COMPROMISE: After the an­cut-throat competition in the ac­Charges of "racism" prompted
former coach of the Green Bay nouncement of a $28 charge for all FOOTBALL SUSPENSIONS: "concerned Black students " to
counting department were two of

Packers replaced Parseghian. student basketball tickets for the Six football players were suspen­sit-in on the steps of the Adminis­
the major problems resulting f 

1975 season, students became en­ded for the 1974-75 academic year 
tration Building this past April.
business school overcrowding in

FORD'S VISIT: Amidst a flurry of raged at the proposed price in­for a parietals violation during the The students complained of "in­
1975-76, according to business

confusion as to his exact intention, creased. Protests resulted, and a 1974 summer practice session. justices and incoveniences levied
students. The student-teacher 

a smattering of protest at a boycott was proposed. However, a Controversy surrounded the deci­upon the Black students at Notre
ratio during 1975-76 showed a 28.3

"political" appearance in an "aca­number of proposals were sug­sion, which stemmed from an 1Jame ·" in their protest in letters
to one margin in the business

demic" context, and an over-all gested by Student Body President alleged rape in Stanford Hall. The addressed to University President
college, much higher than in other 

feeling generated by the office of Pa~ McLaughlin, andwerevoted on final decision to suspend the play­
colleges: 9.1 to one in arts and Fr. Theodore Hesburgh and other 

the Presidency, Gerald R. Ford by the students. The proposals were ers was made by University Presi­administrators.
letters, 6.1 to one in sciences and

accepted a Doctorate of Law degree brought to Fr. Edmund Joyce. A dent Fr. Theodore Hesburgh, who Under-representatioin of Black
9.4 to one in engineering. The

in an ACC ceremony on St. compromise was reached whereby stated that the lives of theplayers 
students and a lack of commitment 
staffing problem was emphasized

Patrick's Day, 1975. Classes were padded seat tickets would cost $22 were on the line with his judgment. to affirmative action programs
during Fall registration 1975 when

cancelled so that students could and bleachers $18. were the groups primary concern at
DRUG BUST: Three Notre even senior majors were closed out

attend, and some students staged a ALCOHOL REGULATIONS: the peaceful demonstration.
Dame students were arrested April of electives and, in some cases,

walk-out during his speech. In-The 1974-75 year began with the Hesburgh responded with a two­
2, 1976 for possession and delivery required courses. 

page letter denying the existence of racism at Notre Dame but stress­ing that "if our Black students atThe Authors of Notre Dame's times seem to perceive evidence of 
ND receives funds 
racism and prejudice among us, it well behooves all of us to be more
Notre Dame accepted $784,908 tration for study of alternatives tc 
in awards during the month of J·et engine control by Drs. Richard alert to what is being perceived and 

ERA OF ARA 
whv."
March to support individual faculty J. Leake and Michael K. Sain, research projects, facilities and professors of electrical engineer-CAMPAIGN FOR NOTRE equipment, and innovative educa­ing, and Dr. James ·L. Melsa, DAME: This past April Notre

Tom Pagna and Bob Best tional and service programs, ac­chairman and professor of electri-Dame announced the largest fund cording to Dr. Robert E. Gordon, cal engineering. drive ever attempted by a Catholic Will Be On The vice-president for advanced stud­--$32,098 from the State Univer-university. The Campaign for ies. sity of New York at Buffalo for Notre Dame is a five-year deve-Awards for research totaled study of in vitro nuclear division in lopment program instituted to in­$607,304 and included: a model system by Dr. Lloyd A. creasetheUniversity's endowment, --$263,343 from the Energy Re­Davidson, assistant professor of with a goal of $130 million. The
SECOND FLOOR 
search and Development Adminis­biology. major portion of the endowment tration (ERDA) for the study of the --$13,712 from the Environment-will cover named professorships,BOOKSTORE effects of radiation on matter by the al Protection Agency for oxygen the Hesburgh Library collection, Radiation Laboratory, directed by measurements in Indiana streams student aid, campus ministry, and Dr. Robert H. Schuler, professor of during urban runoff by Dr. Lloyd a variety of research, educational 
o autograph copies and discuss the boo chemistry. H. Ketchum, Jr., assistant profes-and service programs. The cam­
--$109,267 from ERDA for study sor of civil engineering, and Dr. paign also slate monies for physical of microstructural effects in abra­Terry W. Sturm, instructor in civil facilities, including a classroom­sive wear by Dr. Nicholas F. Fiore, engineering. faculty office building, a chemical

SATURDAY MAY 21 
chairman and professor of metal­--$13,603 from the U.S. Depart-research structure, and under­lurgical engineering, and Dr. Al­ment of Labor for study of personal graduate residence hall, and the bert E. Miller, associate professor earnings for persons of Spanish renovation of the Administration 
of metallurgical engineering. origin by Dr. Frank J. Bonello, Building and Washington Hall. 

--$65,581 from the National In­associate professor of economics. By the end of .the kick-off stitutes of Health for study of the --$13,000 from Miles Laborato-weekend, with an inauguralassem­jiiliiiiiiiiiiiiiliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiil••••••••••• reproductive physiology of Aedes ries, Inc., for study of allergy and bly attended by hundreds of alumni, 
9am -5pm only 
THE PERFEG GRADUATION GIFT 
for parents, graduates, friends 
THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME: 

portrait of Hs History and Campus by 
Thomas J. Schlereth 

mosquitoes by Dr. Morton S. immunology by Pollard and Dr. trustees, and friends of the Univer-Fuchs, professor of biology. Charles F. Kulpa, Jr., assistant sity, almost half the goal had been 
--$48,000 from Miles Laborator­professor of microbiology. collected in pledges. ies, Inc., for care and maintenance -$10,000 from the U.S. Air Force SNOW CLOSES SCHOOL: of gennfree animates by Lobund for study of high angle of attack During one of the worst winters in Laboratory, directed by Dr. Morris support interference by Dr. Robert recorded history, Notre Dame and Pollard, chairman and professor of C. Nelson, assistant professor of St. Mary's were forced to close for microbiology. aerospace and mechanical the day of January 28 when a 
--$33,000 from the National engineering. pre-dawn blizzard brought most of Aeronautics and Space Adminis-$5,700 from the National Science Indiana to a temporary standstill. Foundation (NSF) for small college The closing was the first timeACC entrances faculty participation in active re-severe weather had caused cancel-search directed by Fiore. leation for as long as anybody could designated The Radiation Laboratory also remember, according to University recieved $21,000 from ERDA for Provost James T. Burtchaell, who 
Here is a listing of gates at the 
facilities and equipment. made the decision to cancel classes Athletic and Convocation Center 
Awards for service programs and office hours. 
, where graduates and their guests totaled $126,924 and included: RIOT: About 12 Notre Dame will enter for commencement cere­
--$88,974 from the Indiana State students were injured when theymonies: Board of Health for arbovirus were attacked by groups of teen­
suirveillance laboratory service by agers who had not been admitted to Baccaluareate Mass • Saturday, Dr. George B. Craig, Jr., Clark a Black Cultural Arts dance on May 21 at 5 p.m. Professor of Biology and director of Saturday night, Nov. 6, 1976. The 
Graduates enter Gates 1 or 2 at the Vector Biology Laboratory, and people running the dance had 
4:15 p.m. Procession from Auxi­Dr. Paul R. Grimstad, assistant decided at about 11 p.m. not to liary Gym begins at 4:30 p.m. No faculty fellow in biology. admit anyone else because ap­tickets necessary for guests. ·-$37,950 from Catholic dioceses proximately 400 people were in the 
for a needs assessment program LaFortune Ballroom already and Commencement· Sunday, May 22 directed by Rev. Vincent Dwyer, because the officers of the BCAC at 2 p.m. 0.C. S.0., director ofthe Center for smelled alcohol on the premises, 
Graduates enter North Dome, Human Development. which had been forbidden by Dean Gate 3, at 12:30 p.m. and receive Notre Dame also received of Students James Roemer. About diploma at table designated by $29,680 for educational programs, 200 people who could not get in departments. Procession begins at including $15,480 from NSF for gathered around LaFortune and 
1:15 p.m. Guests will be admitted ·undergraduate research participa-were dispersed from the dance. by ticket only at Gate 10 beginning tion directed by Dr. K. T. Yang, The crowd swept across campus at noon. Television coverage of chairman and professor of aero-and caused considerable damage to the ceremonies will be provided in space and mechanical engineering, LaFortune, and broke some win-the North Dome for guests with and $14,200 from NSF for a dows in the Engineering Building. special tickets. They may enter conference on particulate-gas sep-Security was assisted in handling Gate 4 beginning at 12:30 p.m. aration technology directed by Dr. the crowd by St. Joseph County 
There is no recessional of grad-Teoman Ari.man, associate profes-and Roseland police. "B~t'twas ua~~~. ~ft~~-t~h(! ...~a~~ . .?r .. ~!>~-~ .s'?~, of_ _s~ro~m~c~ _,!1-~d. l!lech_an!£~.. ju~~.!~}Euch for th~m to ha le," .~,;~~~~'Dt.~r,.;.~~-'. __,!!~~............ ,.,.~ ..t.~~11Y H~..:.-. . 


~-----------------------------------~---------------~----------------------------------~---------------------------------~--------------------­
the observer


Commencement theme is human rights 




Topic of Carter speech yet to be announced 
r------------------------------------------------------------~ 
by Marti Hogan 
~tor-bm-CJlief 

In honor of University President Theodore Hesburgh's 25th year as president of Notre Dame, President Jimmy Carter will give the address at the 132nd commencement exer­cises 2 p.m. Sunday in theAthletic and Convocation Center (ACC). President Carter will also receive an honorary doctor of law degree. 
Hesburgh asked Carter to speak at commencement ''because it is a special year at Notre Dame." In a letter to Hesburgh, Carter stated that "he was happy to come because it was Hesburgh's 25th year." 
Although human rights will be the dominant theme of the com­mencement ceremonv, it is not certain what the topi~ of Carter's speech will be. "I asked him to speak on human rights," Hesburgh said, "but of course he doesn't have to." Hesburgh said that he was told the speech will be of "international significance." but he did not know the exact focus of the speech. 
Carter will only be on campus for the actual graduation ceremony because "he is right in the middle of the SALT talks and probably has to stay by the phones," Hesburgh jaid. He will arrive at 12:50 p.m. on tunday and will leave right after l"e ceremony. 

ND Graduation Schedule 
Friday, .s~~urday and Sunday, May 20, 21 and 22, 1977. Except when noted below all ceremonies and act1v1hes are open to the public and tickets are not required. 
FRIDAY* MAY 20 
6:30p.m.  Lawn concert -University Concert Band  -Memorial Libary mall. ( if weather is  
inclement, the conert will be cancelled.)  
8:30p.m.  Musical -"Fiddler on the Roof" -O'Laughlin  Auditorium.  (Tickets  may  be  

purchased in advance) SATURDAY* MAY 21 
10 a.m. 
11:30 a.m. 2 p.m. 4:15p.m. 
4:45p.m. 5 p.m. 7 p.m. 
SUNDAY* MAY 22 
10:00 a.m. 
10:30 
a.m. 

10:30 
a.m. 


12:30 p.m. 
1:15 p.m. 2 p.m. 
FRIDAy• MAY 20 8 p.m. Fiddler on the Roof-ND/SMC Theatre-O'~ughlin Auditorium 
9 p.m. Graduation Party-sponsored by the administration and senior class for parents and guests -Dining Hall 
SATURDAY MAY 21 10 a.m. Concelebrated Baccalaureate Mass -Court of LeMans Hall -Rev. William E. McManus, D.O., Bishop of Fort Wayne-South Bend 
3 p.m. Commencement-Court of LeMans Hall-Speaker: M. Elizabeth Tidball, Prof. of Physiology, George Washington University 
ROTC Commissioning -Athletic and Convocation Center-South Dome 
Phi Beta Kappa installation -Memorial Library Auditorium (Initiates are requested to arrive at 11:00 a.m.) University Reception -by the Officers of the University in the Center for 
Continuing Education. Families of the graduates are cordially invited to attend. 
Graduates Assemble for Academic procession-Athletic and Convocation Center­Auxiliary Gym -Graduates only Baccalaureate Mass -Athletic and Convocaion Center -South Dome. 
Cocktail Party and Buffet Supper -Athletic and Convocation Center -North Dome (Tickets for each must be purchased advance.) 
Concert -University of Notre Dame Glee Club Stepan Center 
Law School Diploma Ceremony -Washington Hall 
Graduate Divison, College of Business Administration Diploma Ceremony ­Memorial Library Auditorium 
Box Lunch -Available at the North and South Dining Halls (tickets must be purchased in advance; graduates with meal validated identification cards need not purchase a ticket.) 
Distribution of Bachelor's and Master's Diplomas -Athletic and Convocation Center -North Dome Doctor of Philosophy degrees will be individually conferred during the Commencement Ceremony.] Graudates only. 
Academic Procession begins -Athletic and Convocation Center -North Dome 
Commencement and Conferring of Degrees -Athletic and Convocation Center­South Dome (admission of guests by ticket only) 
SMC Graduation Schedule 
Hesburgh views Carter's speak­
ing at Notre Dame's commence­
ment as a great opportunity for a 
president. "During the last decade 
all presidents have shied away 
from universities," Hesburgh ex­
plained. "I thought it would be a 
good idea for him to say something 
important from this platform." 
Carter's appearance at Notre 
Dame will be the only one on a 
college or university campus this 
spring. This will be the third time 
in a little over a year, however, that 
Carter has visited Notre Dame. He 
came last April 6 for an Indiana 
primary appearance and returned 
October 16 to address students nad 
faculty on the subject of civil rights 
during the national campaign. 
Carter is the second president to 
address Notre Dame graduates and 
the fourth to receive an honorary 
degree. President Dwight D. 
Eisenhower was the commence­
ment speaker in June. 1960, and 
Presidents Franklin D. Roosevelt 
and Gerald Ford received honorary 
degrees at special academic convo­
cations held in 1935 and 1975, 
respectively. 
In order to accomodate family -and guests of graduates, the Uni­
versity has closed commencement 
to the general public. Admission to 
the exercises and to a campus 
closed-circuit telecast will be by 
ticket only. WNDU-TV will carry 
the ceremonies live. 

President Carter is no stranger to Notre.Dame. He visited the campus twice before, when he was campaigning The Presidency. [Photo by Bruce Harlan] 



Tidball to speak tomorrow at St.Mary's graduation 
by Jean Powley St. Mary's Editor 
M. Elizabeth Tidball, noted for her research on American college women, will deliver the principal address at St. Mary's 130th annual commencement tomorrow at 3 p.m. Tidball, a native of Indiana and currently professor of physiology at George Washington University Medical Center, will spe~k on "A Search for Coherence": the mo­dern women's conflicting commit­ments to career and family. 
She explained that a commence­ment speech should focus on the graduates and their futures, not on current affairs. 
A noted scientist, Tidball has also conducted several widely pub­licized studies on the personal and career differences between women from coed institutions and those from all female colleges. Her findings suggest, among other things, that women who graduated from single sex colleges were more apt to be high achievers than their coeducated counterparts. 
1 
Tidball's research, which has been included in the latest Car­negie report on higher education as well as numerous other publica­tions, also shows a direct relation­ship between the number of women on a faculty and the number of high achievers from that institution. 
Her interest in this type of research originated when she was serving on the Board of Trustees at Mount Holyoke College in the late 60's, which at the time was considering coeducation. Tidball said that she felt sure that valid reasons for the preservation of single sex education existed, and she set out to discover those 
reasons. Tidball's preliminary research showed that women's colleges had an "admirable track record" and she wanted to make the world aware of her positive findings. So, she began publishing her data. Her primary aim is that women's colleges become aware of their impact on women. Women's col­leges should be the super-exam­ples and leaders in women's educa­tion, Tidball said. St. Mary's President John M. 
Duggan explained that Tidball was chosen to deliver the address by the Academic Council and the he emphasized. 
Tidball is probably the one who has done the most in the area ol women's education in America, Duggan commented. 
Tidball holds a bachelor's degree from Mount Holyoke College and 
M.S. and Ph.D. degrees in physio· logy from the University of Wis· consin-Madison. She also die graduate work at the Universitie! of Rochester and Chicago, and pos· doctoral research at the Nationa Institutes of Health in Washington D.C. 
Continuing her teaching anc research career, she joined tht of Wast1in~~ton 
, 
~ .' . 
M. ELIZABETH TIDBALL 1962, where she was a member o the pharmacology department an• 
then physiology. She was name• profossor of physiology in 1971. 
Her 60 publications have ap peared in scholarly journals anc national periodicals, originally con centrating on scientific subject: within her research field, but in th• last three years dealing with th1 educaton of women. 
Commencement exercises will be held in the Court of LeMans hall. II case of rain, they will be move< int9 O'Laughlin Auditorium. Ad mission is by ticket only. 

Jazz Combo to perform tonight 
The Notre Dame Jazz Combo wil perform live at Vegetable Buddie 

. .·r· I~ .~~se of Rilin: All Saturday actiy~ti.~~ ~ill,be held in O'L~~~~Iin Aud~tpr~~l'!l,. ~• .l••~~:~. ~~~:~._._~~ ~es.: :.~onig~~ ~_.j.t~~'l~i~! ..•~ 9:3I1._11!1111..•-ill:•it.•-•••••"••···~~~·•--·•·iillil'ailo'---..·•·•-••••·•-•..•••-••..•••-•••-·•·.ii.twi.•lli·;..liti..t'.i.i.•·~iM.-••••••--•··lllilliit.••••·•••••··-·-·.;.·.-.-.i..;.:..~o·......-·~···~~~·.ac:51Rs went ·UIRJI very 1y,o.1.-p.m•••.• ~-".]"_,..,:; ·-·-· ··"~~~ •-• 
Friday, May 20, 1977
the observer

6 
·~-----------------------------­



History: What happened these past four years? 
by Kathy MiUs Executive Editor 

Four years at Notre Dame have just about ended for the graduating seniors, but they will still remem­ber the highlights of tjlose four years. Here is a brief look at some of the things 'that happened while the Class of '77 was at Notre Dame. 
As freshmen, the graduating class was welcomed to Notre Dame with the traditional orientation activities. Tours, barbeques and parties were held for the Class of '77. Some of the class recall their orientation as the last of the great freshman orientations. 
Football season in 1973-74 was another highlight for the Class of '77. The class saw the Irish team defeat USC at home and go undefeated for the rest of the season to capture the national championship in the Sugar Bowl. Basketball season proved no disap­pointment to the ·fans as they watched the Notre Dame team defeat UCLA in the ACC arena on Jan. 19, 1974. 
On campus that year, several memorable events occurred. The director of Student Union, Jim Pybarczyk, was impeached in Oct­ober, drug raids were staged on St. Ed's, Dillon and Grace. It was announced in November that stu­dents would have to return to campus before Labor Day the following •year. 
In January of 1974, a housing lottery was held and some students were forced to find housing off campus for the following year. Highlighting campus politics se­cond semester was the election of Pat McLaughlin as the new Student Body President. The Class of '77 also witnessed major events in national news as freshmen. Vice­
I 
President Spiro T. Agnew resigned on Oct. 11, 1973. Then-President Richard M. Nixon surrendered
I White House tapes to Judge John Sirica in October. Sen. George McGovern, speaking on campus, called for Nixon's impeachment in November. Soviet dissident Alex­
r ander Solzhenitsyn was exiled from the USSR in February of 1974. Patty Hearst, newspaper heiress, was kidnapped in March and joined the Symbionese Liberation Army in April. 1 Sophomore year opened with the earliest return of students in the history of Notre Dame as school opened before Labor Day. The returning students were greeted with a new alcohol policy, which stipulated that no student under 21 
I 
could consume alcohol on campus. 
The new ruling stemmed from a decision in the Indiana courts the previous year which would have made the University liable if an underage student caused damage after drinking. A voter registration drive was conducted to put pres­sure on state legislators to lower the legal drinking age to 18. ~ However, efforts in this direction proved fruitless in the spring when the bill to lower the drinking 1age 
was killed in committee. 
The Ombudsman organization, 

under the dire::tion of Bill McLean, 
set up a shuttle bus to the Michigan 
bars so students under 21 could 
drink legally. Called the 
"Quickee," the service proved 
popular and is still in operation. 
As sophomores, the Class of '77 

also saw the arrest of Darby O'Gill 
by Campus Security for violating 
the "leash laws." And in the fall 
semester of that year, AI Sondej, a 
Notre Dame graduate, started col­
lecting money in front of the dining 
halls for CARE and other charities. 
Some new places were opened in 

the 197 4-75 year. The N azz, a 
coffeehouse in the basement of 
LaFortune; Darby's Place, a late­
night place in the basement of 
Lafortune; and Fat Wally's, a bar 
on US 23, opened up that year. 
Campus View, an apartment com­
plex for students, was completed 
that year. Haggar Hall, the 
psychology building, was dedicated 
in the fall semester. 
In the spring, students were 

informedthe the price of basketball 
tickets for the following year would 
be increased from $14 to $21 for 
bleacher seats and $28 for arena 
seats. SBP Pat McLaughlin worked 
out a compromise with Fr. 
Edmund Joyce, University vice­
president, which enabled students 
to purchase tickets at $18 for 
bleachers and $22 for padded 
seats. 
St. Patrick's Day, a traditional 

holiday for the Irish,waseven more 
festive that year as President 
Gerald Ford came to campus and 
spoke to the students and faculty in 
the ACC arena. Many students did 
a little celebrating on their own and 
flooded the local bars all day. 
The Class of '77 saw a change 

in the traditional An Tostal activi­
ties that year. The usual "cattle 
drive" was stopped due to com­
plaints from some women at Notre 
Dame. However, four residence 
halls held their own "cattle 
drives." 
Sophomore year for the Class of 

'77 was the end on an era--the "Era 
of Ara." Football Coach Ara Par­

~~~~~~~~ 
~·¥.:.-,.:...:::. J~.....; 
'H. 

CLASSIC GRECIAN GOD POSE, OR IS THIS MAN MAD AT A MElON? Neither--he is playing volleyball as part of the past senior w~ek. [Photo by janet Carney] [P.S.: lest we be accused of journalistic improriety, this noble vol!evballer is not a senior at all, but Double-Domer-To~ Be Mike Schafer.r 
seghian announced his decision t<\ leave Notre Dame and Dan Devine was appointed to take over the position of head football coach. 
In junior year the Acad~ic Calendar once more became an issue when the Academic Council voted Dec. 3 to return to a pre-Labor Day start, with a week-long midsemester break, while eliminating the Friday after Thanksgiving as a holiday. After a student "laugh-in" protest, a stu­dent petition and expressions of dissatisifaction from St. Mary's administrators, the Council again met on Jan. 20 to reconsider the calendar. In a 23-22 vote, the Council decided to reinstate the Friday holiday, provided that stu­dents attend one Saturday class. 
The Notre Dame Mock Political Convention, held in the beginning of March, nominated Sen. Hubert Humphrey as its presidential can­didate, and Georgia legislator Ju­lian Bond as his running-mate. 
Dr. John Duggan, former vice-president for student affairs at Vassar, was inaugarated as the eight president of St. Mary's College at a formal convocation in the beginning of September. 
In October, while the Irish were battling a 20-point deficit against Air Force, the country was shocked by rumors started in a Pittsburgh radio station that Dan Devine 
would be replaced as head foot!-,,;
coach by Ara Parseghian. fhe that he could no longer take the dining halls' garbaga to feed his pigs. Price said that throwing the garbage down di!;posals was more professional. Student Body Presi­dent Mike Gassman and Special Projects Coordinator Tom Soma rallied student support behind George, forcing Price to give George the garbage. Soma also convinced university officials that a men's laundromat should be set up on campus. University officials decided to put the laundromat in the ground floor of Badin hall, and the facility should be in operation next fall. 
Jimmy Carter was elected thirty-ninth president of the United States on November 2, 1976, defeating Republican incumbent Gerald Ford. During the course of the campaign, Carter and his running mate, Sen. Walter Mondale, both visited the Notre Dame Campus. This spring it was announced by University officials that Carter, a friend of University President Theodore Hesburgh, would be the Commencement speaker on May 
22. Seniors and their families learned to their displeasure that, because of the size of this years' graduating class and the increased interest because of Carter's visit, ~ach senior would be limited to five tickets for graduation. A petition drive by senior Marty White to get the ceremony moved to the stadium failed. 
During a dance sponsored by the Black Cultural Arts Commission approximately 200 persons were denied admission to the crowded ballroom of LaFortune Student Center. The angered crowd swept across campus, split into small groups, and attacked students who were walking across campus. The crowd also broke windows in LaFortune and in the Engineering Building. Security, which was assisted by St. Joseph County and Roseland police, termed the crowd "too much for them to handle." 
Both Notre Dame and St. Mary's were clsoed on Jan. 28 when a pre-dawn blizzard brought most of Indiana to a standstill. The closing was the first in Notre Dame history, according to University Provost James Burtchaell, who made the decision to cancel classes and office hours. 
In mid-April the University laun­ched the biggest fund drive in its history, with a goal of $130 million. The Campaign for Notre Dame is a five-year program to increase the University's endowment. A major portion of the money will be used for named professorships, new buildings, building renovation, an increased library collection, stu­dent aid, and a variety of research, educational programs. 


retired Irish coach would serve • • 
until Don Shula could take over full • THE PEANUTS ARE ON US • 
time in January. Executive Vice • · President Edmund Joyce dismissed . _ • 
the rum.o~s calling them "vicious. TIMM PARTY STORE • 
and mahcwus." • · • Three Notre Dame students were • ­arrested April2for selling drugs to OPEN: MON -SAT 9 am ­

11 pm•.

undercover agents. Dean of Stu-• 
dents James Roemer first announ-• SUNDAY 12 noon -11 pm • 
ced the activities of the agents on • 
March 10. The Dean suspended ~II COLD BEER PACKAGE UQUOR • 
three students before trtal desptte • ' '. 
earli.~r statem~nts that .he. would • WINE GOURMET FOODS • 
not do anythmg to prejudtce the •. ' 
studen~s· pending case." . 3114 S 11 ST. NJLES MICHIGAN• 
A btll to lower the Indtana • · • _ ' • drinking age to 19 was killed in the e 1 Block North of state I me on U.S. 31 • Indian~ House of. Representatives. • •••••••••••••••••••••• 
The btll was wtthdrawn by the 
supporters to avoid certain defeat. 
Loss of support for the bill was 
blamed on the approaching pri­
mary elections and the candidate's 
unwillingness to ·support contro­
versial issues. 
Former CIA agent Victor Mar­

chetti revealed that Notre Dame 
faculty had been working as 
agency "spotters" as late as 1967. 
A spotter is a faculty member who 
WE PAY CASH!!!

looks for students with potential to 
become clandestine agents. Mar­
chetti said he had conducted a for color or black & white T.V.'s 
study for then CIA director 
Richard Helms, to find out the 
(we don't care if they work or not)

extent of CIA involvement in the 
univeristies. 
At the beginning of the class's Call Western Electronics 288-1998

senior year Food Services Director 
Edmund Price incurred the stu-1530 W 
dents' wrath by telling the popular estern Ave. S. Bend 
George "The Pig Farmer" Brown 
~-------------------------­
1 CONGRATULATIONS Ii GRADUATES I 
I Thanks For Your Patronage I 
I I

1 Throughout the Year 1 
1402 Dixieway North 3401 L WW 
I

I South Bend (near airport) 1 
I . I
I Sun-thurs 10:30-10:00 oLn FAsHxoNED I .I Fri & Sat 10:30-11:00 I






II4IIURIEBS 

,______;...-;..-.;a~~~-------------.:..J 




*The Observer 
an independent student newspaper serving· notre dame and st. mary's 
The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and St Mary's College.. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible Editonals represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries. opinions and letter.s are the views of their autho·rs. Column space is available to all members ot the community, and letters are . encouraged to promote the free expression of varymg opin1ons on campus. 
BoxQ

Busmess Manager Sue· Quigley· Notre.Dame
Advertising Manager ~ .Steve Bonomo Production Manager Karen Chiames . 
Ind. 465,56 
Friday, May 20, 1977 


Fr. Ted and Fr. Ned: 25 Years of Service 
This is a weekend for spotlight-sharing. A lot of very important people are here: the graduates, their parents and families, President Carter, GaiTY Trudeau, Bishop Lamont and others. This issue of The Observer is for all of them. But in a special sense The Observer staff wishes to recognize the achievements and contribu­tions of two very unique people: Fr. Theodore Hesburgh, University president, 
and  Fr. Edmund Joyce,  _executive  vice­ 
president.  
These  two  men  have  served  in  their  

current positions for 25 years and the details of their services to the University are outlined elsewhere in these pages. Together they have piloted Notre Dame through a tremendous period of growth and change. We salute here both their efforts and their accomplishments. 
Fr. Hesburgh, through his involvement in national and international concerns, has done much to put Notre Dame in touch with the world beyond academia and athletics. More than anyone else, he is 
parting..shot!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~. Brass Memories of the Golden Dome 
pat hanifin 

In time all things must end and as our days in the shadow of the Golden Dome draw to an end and we bid a fond farewell to old du Lac it is a proper time to reflect on our years at Our Lady's University. 
First and foremost, Notre Dame is people. People make Notre Dame what it is. People like those find administrators who, in loco parentis, teach us that the essence of the Notre Dame experience is touching others (but not members of the opposite sex after midnight on weekdays and 2 a.m. on weekends). They are so terribly vulnerable, those who do their work for love and not for gain. Even when they busted you they never said they didn't love you. 
Then there are those people in the greatest student body in the world, who, as soon as you enter NO's ivied halls, teach you essen­tial survival skills such as the proper method of prostration be­fore Emil T. to insure a 7 average on your weekly quizzes. This kind of invaluable help is the basis of friendships that will last forever. It also sets you up for your first Notre 
Dame experience of being stabbed in the back. Because of these people Notre Dame is a great place to grow. We 
have experienced communication .• , in social spaces (e.g., a casual Jeer , ·, ~ to a young lady while stealing her panties in LeMans). Du Lac's Catholic character (or characters) and its renowned emphasis on values have taught us the Humane Imperative (always appoint a raci­ally balanced cheerleading squad before the President comes to town to give a speech on human rights). 
These were the best years of our lives. In the future, when we are ancient alumni, we will remember the places associated with Notre Dame's long and hallowed tradi­tion: the candlelit Grotto; Nickies; the lakes as they look during spring walks; Corby's; Sacred Heart with its solemn Kubiak's; the 
••. this is indeed my very last word in ·"· , ; •• •1:, .The Observer.) 
responsible for the development of Notre Dame's social conscience. 
Fr. Joyce has worked hard to make everything that is great about Notre Dame possible by insuring the University's financial stability. Many other private colleges and universities have been forced to close their doors or drastically cut back on valuable programs. Fr. Joyce's foresight and abilities have allowed Notre Dame to continue growing. 
The University is on the verge now of another era of challenge and great potential. The largest fund-raising drive in its history is underway. Coeducation has taken root and its effects are being felt throughout the community. The Univer­sity is becoming more and more a place for the world to do its thinking. 
We congratulate "Fr. Ted" and "Fr. Ned'' on this landmark in their service to 
~ Notre Dame and we thank them for giving so much of their lives, of themselves. May God and Our Lady bless you. 
.._._. 

EDITORIAL BOARD 
Marti Hogan Editor-in-Chief Martha Fanning Managmg Editor Bob Brink Asst Managing Ed. Kathy Mills Executive Editor Maureen Flynn Editorial Editor Barb Breitenstein Exec. News Editor Tom Byrne Campus Editor 
. ...
~ 

J(·an Powley St. Mary's Editor Katie Kerwm News Editor Paul Stev.enson Sports Editor Pat Cole Special Projects Ed. Dav1d O'Keefe Features Editor 
Copy Editor Bar.b L.3nghenr-y . Photo E.ditor Paul Clevenger 
Library; the Library. 
We will remember the legends and traditions associated with this place: the Ghost of the Gipper; panty raids; Rockne; leaving trash on every lawn between Corby's and campus; Fr. Sorin; what really happens on the 14th floor. Because of memories like these our hearts will forever love thee Notre Dame. 
And when we leave du Lac we may shake off the Gipper's Ghost but we will always carry with us the Notre Dame Spirit to wake up the echoes of our past here. I'm sure the accomplishments of the Class of '77 will shake down the thunder from the sky. What though the odds be great or small, the Class of '77 will win over all. Notre Dame's loyal sons (and daughters) will march onward to success because they know that someone has to pay up the $134 million that the University wants. 
Spurred onward by the people . we have met here and the lessons we have learned here and the memories and Spirit we have acquired here, we are ready to sally forth, quick as a dodo, to tackle even Philemon's problem and to win one for the Gipper. So help us, . Touchdown Jesus. 
(To the relief of the people I have berated in this paper for four years, 
During the height (and the heat) of the recent Student Body Presi­dent election in March, one parti­cular candidate stormed up to The Observer office one night, com­plaining of unfair coverage in our pages. At first I listened quite sympathetically to the complaints, but later the discussion amounted to an argument. Frustrated, . I passed the responsibility of contin­uing the argument on to another member of the staff, and snuck into another part of the office to find something for a headache, only to 
find the managing editor between me and the aspirin. He did not look well, and informed me of more problems with our petition drive, our only chance to save us from
f:'win. I found the hottle of 

These had to be the most horrible days of my undergraduate life, I thought. There were too many big things happening at once. There was too much news occurring for the staff to handle. Looking around, I found them working hard and looking ragged and miserable. Some of them were still bothered with midsemester exams at the same time they were hustling to get signatures on our petitions. Worse, we had just elected a new editor-in-chief, and these were days of transition. The incoming editor and her staff had to be taught a great deal. But when 

opinio n !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~I!!! 

Yes to the Future 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii m a rtin m e II 

As the last few weeks of my Senior year come into focus, I find myself thinking over my four years at Notre Dame and what they have meant to me. I feel as though I've experienced a wide range of Notre Dame besides the fanfare of foot­ball and basketball weekends, and the every day life of a student. I have worked at the Huddle for 2 years and been involved with Logan Center for 3 years. This past year I have also chaired a large and dynamic volunteer group, CILA, while working as an R.A. in Alumni Hall. I feel I have seen many diverse aspects of Notre Dame and have made many good friends with students, faculty and admini­strators during my four years here. 
As in all situations where we find ourselves-we can be creative and productive or apathetic and des­tructive. Notre Dame is no utopia but it can be a place where one can grow in values and wisdom. There are major discrepancies in Univer­sity policy as it attempts to reach a "Christian" perspective, and there are professors who couldn't teach grass how to grow. There are also students who use people and classes as objects in a selfish attempt to gain prestige or power. However, there are also students, faculty and administrators working together in search of a more egalitarian and compassionate world as I have seen in CILA. And there are students who give up their time and energy each week throughout the school year to work either at Logan Center or with Neighborhood Study Help. Amidst the selftshness, ignorant attitudes and apathy here at Notre Dame, there seems to be hope for a better world. 
My vision and hope as chairper­son of CILA applies in many ways to the whole of both Notre Dame and St. Mary's. Many of us graduates wiil enter influen 

places in the worlds of busin law, medicine and governmen That we will be influential in 
U.S. and the world is a fact--h we will influence and direct various fields depends on our va system. We can maintain existing structures of medicine, 1 and business thereby allowi g poverty and alienation to continte in parts of the U.S. and Thi·d World countries. Or we can be~n to raise our consciousness as to what our role will be in an atte~t to create a more just world. 
The second choice will requ.re 
a simpler life style and a. Jot 
of alienation from the status quo. 
A more egalitarian world will mean more suffering for us, but a more dignified, human existence for the world's poor. Consequent­ly, we will experience a compassion and solidarity which is not very present in our materialistic world.. This Christian value system of compassion is extremely vital in releasing us from our own prisons of wealth and prestige. 
I came to Notre Dame searching for something four years ago without much exuberance but with an open mind. I leave Notre Dame with a vision and an excitement for life that challenges me to find that creative spirit that is within all of us. Dag Hammarskjold, Secretary of the U.N. about ten years ago, wrote a book, Markings, describing his thoughts and feelings as he attempted to create that just world of which I spoke. I end with a quote from that book which very well sums up my feelings at this time of transition: 
For all that has been· Thanks! 
To all that shall be-Yes! I hope all of you discover that spirit which allows one to live life with vitality. ,, ... 



-~-------------------­

Cartoonist Gary Trudeau, creator of the popular Doonesbury comic strip talks to interested Notre Dame Senior Rob Tully at yesterdays senior picnic. later, speaking from the steps of Haggar Hall, he recounted his college at Yale. Those attending college merely to get a degree and a job, Trudeau warned, are missing an education. [Photo by janet Carney.] 

International Concern Day named by amnesty group 
Sunday, May 22, has been from the responsible authorities in designated by Amnesty Chile, it says. Despite continual International (AI) as the inter­protests and several independent national "Day of Concern for the investigations, the Chilean govern­Disappeared Chileans." On that ment has neither taken steps to day throughout the nation, com­investigate the disappearances in munity-wide actions of prayer and an official capacity, nor made any education about the situation of the serious attempt to offer an explan­Disappeared will take place. ation of the disappearance of 1,500 
Chileans. In accordance with the Human 
Throughout the months of April Rights theme of commencement and May, 1977,AI. the internationalexercises, the Notre Dame and human rights organization, haslocal AI chapter has prepared an carried on a world-wide campaignextensive educational display con­on behalf of more than 1,500cerning the situation of the Chilean disappeared. The organization has Disappeared. The display contains released extensive documentationdocumented case histories and about missing political prisoners,photographs of the Disappeared. It including detailed case studies andalso includes a special collection of photographs. and calls on thewood-cut prints made by Chileans Chilean government to make public imprisoned for political reasons. 
its own official inquiry on "disap­The display will be ready for pearances," and to release allviewing in the Library Concourse political prisoners presently de­from Thursday, May 19 to Sunday, tainMay 22. 
Friday, Mav 20, 1977 
the observer 



Coeducation Committee reports 

When President Carter was e­lected to office in Nov. 1976, the Chilean government responded to 
University of 
his Human Rights stand by expel­ling 304 previously detained po­


NOTRE-DAME
litical prisoners. Yet, despite their release, violations of human rights continue in Chile. Contrary to 

GLEE CLUB
official pronouncements, political prisoners are still being held without trial under the recently extended "state of seige," and several hundred others are await­ing the completion of trials or sentences. 
In addition, the security forces of the National Directorate of Intelli­gence (DINA) are increasingly using such methods as short-term arrests, and threatening and intim­idating ex-prisoners with force. Above all, the DINA continues to cause disappearances, according to AI. The increase in official kidnapping represents the govern­ment's solution to the problems of political imprisonment, enabling the government to eliminate pris­

COMMENCEMENT
oners without taking official re­sponsibility, it claims. 

CONCERT 
AI began to receive reports of disappearances shortly after the military coup, in September, 1973, 
Saturday May 21, 1977 9:00p.m.
and has received them regularly 

Stepan Center
ever since. Satisfactory explana­tions have not been forthcoming 
Notre Dame should work toward an admission policy of equal access for men and women in the next five years, the Committee to Evaluate Coeducation recommended to Uni­versity President Fr. Theodore M. Hesburgh, in its report submitted April 21. ­
The University had fixed an interim goal of 1,500 women among 6, 700 undergraduates for 1976-77. The committe acknowledged the benefits of controlled increase in women during the first five years of coeducation, but it registered ser­ious concern about the injustice of continuing an admissions policy based on quotas rather than on qualifications. 
The committee also recommend­ed that the University reexamine the rationale for stablizing the undergraduate enrollment at its present figure, as recommended by the Committee on Priorities in 1973. 
The committee, five women and six men,began its work in Septem­ber 1976 under the chairmanship of Sr. John Miriam Jones, assistant provost. The group studied more than 500 questionnarie responses from Notre Dame and St. Mary's College faculty and students as well as 100 written interviews from women undergraduates at Notre Dame. 
Based on application information from the past five years, the committee predicted that gradual implementation over a five-year period of an equal access policy would result in the 60:40 ratio of men to women at peer institutions. 
Academic achievement of Notre Dame women has been high, the committee reported, but it noted that classes still exist in which no women, or only one or two are enrolled. As a partial remedy, it recommended that women be more evenly distributed in multiple-sec­tioned courses, particularly semin­ar courses. 
Educating men and women to­gether is at the heart of coeduca­tion," Sister John said. "Continued and varied interchanges with other men and women is absolutely essential to education for life. Many of the committee's specific recommendations are intended to encourage this interaction." 
Some of these recommendations include: 
--that high priority be given to building a centrally located student center and that residence halls 
encourage  a  better  social  atmos­ 
phere.  
--that  efforts  be  increased  to  

gain, support and retain women as faculty members, on res_idence hall staffs, in Campus Ministry and in administrative positions. -admissions policy on St. Mary's 


--that a central Office of Career College be considered, but dis-Development be formed to coor-agreed with the inclusion of St. dinate the guidance counseling Mary's when the University refers needed by men and women to to a 3:5 ratio of women to men. integrate the choices and responsi-Speaking as a consultant to the bilities involving careers and fami-evaluation committee, St. Mary's lies. _President Dr. John M. Duggan, 
In its only recommendation that emphasized the importance of in­was not unanimous, the majority of teraction between the two student the committee recommended that bodies but he disagreed that diffi­the president appoint a new com-culties might be caused by increa~­mittee to consider thoronsideroughly ing the number of Notre Dame aspects of coresidential housing{n women. and, if feasible, to plan for its Concurring in the desire for implementation in the 1978-79 -interaction between the campuses. 
academic year. 
"The committee's position on this sensitive and complex issue was not easily reached," Jones said. "But it was seen as the onlv way of dealing with the serious lack of opportunities for social func­tion." 
The report supported single-sex residence halls as Notre Dame's primary model, but noted that no single model can serve the needs of all students. The committee's concept of a co-residential dormi­tory is one with separate living areas for men and women governed by parietal hours. It suggested that such a hall be optional only for juniors and seniors. 
The report expressed concern that the impact of an equal access the evaluation committee said it was troubled by decreased partici­pation by both in the coexchange program. It recommended a thorough study in cooperation with St. Mary's. 
The committee addressed vir­tually all areas of University life in 16 topics, "which means that women are truly part of Notre Da~e, not just something added on. Jones commented. 
Male faculty whose experience at 
Notre Dame antedates coeducation 
were asked to identify and react to 
changes associated w'ith it. Accord­
ing to the report, their response~ 
were overwhelmingly positive. 
And when asked whether the\ 
were generally comfortable with 
being a woman at Notre Dame. 93 
per cent of the woman said yes. 
SUNDAY MASSES May 22, 1977 (Main Church) 
5:15P.m. Saturday Rev. Robert Griffin C.S.C. 
9:30 a.m. Sunday Rev. John Fltzgerald, C.S.C. 
10:45 a.m. Sunday Rev. Daniel R. Jenky, C.S.C. 
12:15 p.m. Sunday Rev. William Toohey, C.S.C. 
There will be no evening vespers on Sunday. 
fat VI aUY's Justpast ­
OPEN FRI. &SAT. TILL MIDNIGHT 
\,OCI(s, 



LIQUOR 'YoR\.0 
S.llllltHiwe. 277.3111 
12  Blatz S269  
pks  Hamms S288 Falstaff S269  
Old Style s3o9  

Rhinelander S26o Old Milwaukee S288 




plus 
6 pk Old Chicago s1a 
Vodka sa~? Gin S419 .or S795 
qt Y2 gal 

Blend s4ss 

qt cigarettes sass .carton 
---·-­


-------·--------------------------------~~--~----­
DOONESBURY by Garry Trudeau 
sbp eme r itus !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 

HYMANIJIJ.!PIIE/lt's MY t.AIU 
ce 
SOIJtJl MANI/AL?.. {}fl, ~IT IS.. S7JIMP5!. 01{, AN/} MY 'tEL.­


Memories 

LOW LEGAL PAIJS! fiAVE I 60T t=MJtl61{? ()()II. WHY IS I.AJV SOitJ()L so (l'JMPl/-. 
----.--.--.iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimike go s s man

.._iiiiiiiiitom o'neil 
'rJCA'IED? 

of it. But of course, I won't be so one-sided the other way. The good people here will come to mind and I'll have to inquire if they are still here, and if, perhaps, the under­graduate knows them. 
The memory of this place must be real for me. The absolute love I do have for Notre Dame must be tempered with its realistic short­comings. My esteem for this place will not be lessened because of it. It will be renewed. There are far more good memories that will surface at ease to outnumber the horrible ones I keep deliberate track of. I am too afraid that these college days will seem like a fantastic dream. I fear the feeling that Lyndon Johnson confesses in his book Vantage Point: after leaving the White House and looking back, he felt like an astronaut who returns to the earth and looks at the night sky, finding it hard to believe he was ever on the moon. 
I expect to come back home to Notre Dame sometime. And I expect to be shouting at football games and standing in line at the bookstore to buy a Notre Dame ashtray. And I expect to be found at the senior bar, babbling the most horrible story of all to an under­graduate: how I ever graduated in the first place. It wasn't easy, but I made it. 

It's sad to say, but it's over. Our college careers have wound to the very end. The feelings --they just can't be put into words .. 
I refuse to believe that our fondest memories will be those of academia. Despite the fact that we received perhaps the best educa­tion available, and snent most of our time in the 'Brary (well, I guess not all of us did), we probably won't remember our classwork as 

much as everything else. , 10 LAtU SOIOOl? PIHAT 
GINNY, IVHY AM I GOING 
MS. JOAN 
Everything else --that is some­

IF IT .{)(}{3SN'T /Q()f?J( OUT? 
CJIUCIE! 
thing just a little different for each of us. For some, like Basil, it was 52 consecutive nights at the Senior Bar. To others, it was workouts and ball at the Rock or the ACC. To still others, it was waterfight~, ~houting· matches between dorms, food­fights, interhall football, or a special girlfriend miles away. To me, the most important was the friendships. I will leave Notre Dame knowing that I have been able to make friendships with the best people in the world, students, faculty, and administrators alike -­relationships that I will treasure for the rest of my life. 
But, there was one friendship that stands alone. I shall always 
7JI!JII! 

Time Now Due 
thank God for the one person who kept me going, who gave me the strength to handle both my succes­


pat wood 
es and failures --the person I 

Sadly sentimentalizing Fixing up my chariot shared my four years with 
each last day getting ready for another ride from day one. That friend, one that 
where to go now sensing with wet fingers will be forever, was my roommate, 
must it all pass like it does which way the gale blows tonight Mike Orlando. I hope everyone was lucky enough to find someone like
I quickly say my prayers that.
kneeling with candles and rocks 

"It's over." Reactions to this sighed statement of fact range from a relieved "Thank God" to an unbelieving "Oh no," boisterous beach play to tears. For many the mood falls somewhere in between excitement and letdown, sad the be !leaving and happy to be moving somewhere else. 
Much has happened in the last four years. Friendships have been welded, families started. Lives have been affected; redirected or 
1 pushed along their desired courses. 
The first bright shiny images of Notre Dame faded long ago into daily routine. Homework, papers, events and parties progressed mysteriously from happenings to memories, buried under memories shifting like snow drifts in a blizzard. 
The next two days will be nutsy: families, relations, and friends, misty-eyed Mom, distinguished Dad, strange faces asking direc­tions to the Bookstore. Disregard­ed schedules will litter the quad as everyone tries to squeeze years of relationships into minute good-­byes. In the back of our minds 
lurks the reality only partially perceived, less believed: "I am actually leaving this place." 
Amidst all the demands, the rush and the fun, graduation time is also a good time to think. What were we here for? What exactly was it that we did learn? I think it will be years before we realize the full significance of the last four years, but everyone must agree that we have learned a lot. 
Throughout our careers as stu­dents here, we have been told that the place Notre Dame, Notre Dame students and Notre Dame gradu­ates are all special. For four years I've been listening to this subtle propaganda, saying that it ain't necessarily so. It's a lot of bullshit unless each of us decides to let it and make it be true. 
Notre Dame is a special place because people work to make it a special place. It's Camelot. Fairy castles go up here: Dreams grow Leaving here, my chariot leaps to the breeze to be carried off by another wind we glide over buildings and branches, since the one I was riding my chariot and I has now been spent up with the wind, the stars••• 


Schmaltz 
mike richter 
-

like crystals, Resolutions are made and volunteers. can be found to make the· resolutions come true. It's aquiet .secluded harbor where ships can be built strong in safety and peace to fact the storms and gales of the ocean outside. 
Strength of character, strength "to do" pulsates in this place because. people· care here. Recent alumni have told this poor senior that the "outside," the "out in the 'real world' out there" isn't at all 
· like Notre Dame. I've been told that the strength, so concentrated here, dissipates quickly out there. Idealism dries, the dreams break apart against the hard reality of earning a living. Whatever re­serves of strength a person has managed to store quickly flow away. 
So what are we to do as graduates of the University of Notre Dame du Lac? Instead of depending on other places or other people for the strength we will miss in missing Notre Dame -the strength we need to continue smiling and caring despite the insensitive clod in the office next door -we should become springs of strength ourselves. We should generate strength in ourselves and give it to others. The strength to be aware and concerned is self-per­petuating, by giving it to others, we generate more and that makes it easier to go on giving. 
The first step of giving is always the hardest, but it is also the most important. If we learned anything in four years at Notre Dame, I hope we have learned how to be a spring of strength. I hope we have learned how to give. 
Gradua~ion is a ceremonial time of transformation. We've been transforming for four years; this weekend we will make our quan­tum jump. We're sending off the ships. Whether they float or sink depends not so much on the 
· weather they encounter, but more on the way they were built and how 
they are repaired. Graduation is a time to have fun and come toge­ther, a time to think and -to consider, a mixed-up time, a merging time between two worlds. 
Is it over? Yes, something is over. Necessarily though, an ending means that something else is just beginning. 

opinion ·' . 
--.. • 
i:" 




Debunking the '60's 

iiiiiiAiiisiiiiiiaiiiiiigiiiraiiidiiiuiiiatiiiiniiigiiiiiiisiiieniiiiiiioriii,iiiliiiiiiiaiiimiiiiiiiiiithiiieiiiyiiihiiiaiiidiiimiiioiiiniiieiiiyiiitiiioiiibiiiuiiirniiiiiiiaiiindiiiiiithiiieiiiyiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii SteVe iUdge 
getting sick and tired of hearing from administrators, faculty and clergy about what a disappoint­ment my generation is when com­pared with the college students of the sixties. Oh!, what a marvelous golden age it must have been. It is very strange to hear this sort of nonsense because we, the genera­tion of the seventies, are old enough to remember the sixties quite clearly and I for one do not think they were all that glamorous. Should we bring back the good old days of the Vietnam War. the racial battles, the Chicago '68 Convention drugs, the generation gap, the Draft and the student uprisings? Maybe each year at Kent State and Jackson State they should restage a mock-up of the killings and charge admission as they do every year at Little Big Horn to commemorate Custer's Last Stand. We could burn Hesburgh and Burtchaell every year in effigy just to remind them of the good old days. 
The Woodstock Generation gets more credit than it deserves. We knew them before they became legends. They were our older brothers and sisters and the friends of our older brothers and sisters. They were simply caught up in the chemistry of their time, just as we are in ~lUrs. The country_ was a good deal more affluent and because 
But now, it's off to work or law school or med school, or maybe even the unemployment lines. That is the scare --a new life, a new reality. No longer will there be a Nickie's for Lunch Bunch. Gone are the spring breaks in Florida. Never again can we skip Descrip­tive Astronomy. Most of all, we will never live a life so full of friends, with so much to do. 
In these last four years, we have learned so much. Our experiences, our studies, our ups and our downs have transformed us into people with an outlook on life that cannot be equalled. There is no place to match Notre Dame. 
Ah, and there is one last, special mention --to our parents. I will never be able to express the thanks to my parents for what they have given me. It is not just for the education, but for the maturing, the confidence, the support, the love, and the understanding. It is so appropriate that they are here today --they are the greatest. 
It is so hard to say goodbye; to John, Charlie, Walt, Keefe, Chuck, Kevin, Cous, Boz ·-there are too many to mention. My life at Notre Dame has been the best part of my 21 years --from Student Govern­ment, to Stanford Hall. to the MBLITW so many miles away. It is not an education, but a treasure. 
So, when Commencement draws to a close, I think everyone can understand why 1800 graduates will cry. 

could afford the pretense of reject­ing materialism. Was it not their generation that made it trendy for every self-respecting college stu­dent to own at least seven hundred dollars worth of stereo equipment? No committed radical was going to be caught listening to Dylan or Baez on an ordinary record player. 
While the generation of the late sixties may have been committed to chance, I suspect they were equally committed to their own sense of privilege. As much as anything else, they demanded easy and-immediate gratification of their desires. For some, the protests were an opportunity for bringing social chan~~e. For others it was a chance to be malicious and destruc­tive. I think for most participants, they were just big parties that everyone was invited to. If one examines the rhetoric of the sixties one will find that a good portion of it was quixotic cornball malarky mixed in with generous helpings of unadulterated garbage. There was a comic book quality to their world of heroes and villains. Often they lashed out at preconceived stereo­types; the Pigs, the Establishment, the Evil Geniuses in the Pentagon, and other Lackey Dogs of American Imperialism and the White Racist Conspiracy. Yet, by and large, they were probably as concerned with 
getting deferments from the draft and educational grants simply to protect their own future place in the American Dream, as they were with fighting injustice. 
Much good was done in the sixties and many dedicated indiv­iduals put their necks on the line for the sake of social concerns and 
human justice. -Many of the cnanges orougnt aoout in the sixties are here to stay or are still in the process of being ifoned out. In a way, it has been our generation that has had the task of separating ' the chaff from the grain that was harvested in the sixties. Where is the Woodstock Gener­ation now? Some are on skid row and others are still trying to make ·the revolution work. Most are young respectable members of the Establishment, with homes in the suburbs and the whole middle class trip. Man cannot turn back the clock. Ncr should he want to. We have our own peculiar problems to work out: the Energy Crisis, the Econ­omy, and the Global Food Short­age. We may not be as inclined as our older brothers and sisters to sit in the rain hugging each other at 
rock concerts and peace rallies. But then maybe it is because our 1generation has work to do making 
things happen in a quiet way~ . 


1(' i'he Friday, May 20, 1977
.Jo5' a :over 

letters to a Lonely God 
On Leauing An Enchanted Place 
Reverend Robert Griffin 

Christopher Robin was going away. was too unreliable to depend on him as a These were all the scars he could show Helper and healer, I cheerp--SmallNobody knew why he was going; partner in conspiracy. me in that afternoon meeting, engineered waifs in the woodland wet-· nobody knew where he was going; "I have a studio in the field house," he by the cleverness of a cocker spaniel. I Strays I fmd in it, wounds i bind in indeed, nobody even knew why he said. "I have some pictures in an don't think he even intended to show me it~-Bidding them all forget! knew that Christopher Robin was exhibition." those scars, but sometimes the suffering is going away. But somehow or other Later, Tim gave me one of the pictures obvious, if you have hung upon nails. e\ervbodv in the Forest felt that it ws from his exhibition. It was a self-portrait, At times in an enchanted place like the happening at last. cheerless in green, mournful in black, of forest, it is said, wild and furry beasts hear 
Tim and a friend, painted as they were the thin, clear, happy call of distant piping, --Christopher Robin comes to an coming off a drug trip. You worry about a inviting them to do homage to the Friend On the final day, there are things youEnchanted Pla~e lad with a limp when he walks and a stutter and Helper, the great god Pan, the Piper at must do before you leave an enchanted 
when he speaks, but self-portraits done the gates of dawn. place; otherwise, all your life, you will ''This is the place of my song-dream, in acid can stretch you out of shape. suffer from haunted dreams and spoiltthe place the music played to me," "Where did you get the clothes?" I Suddenly the Mole felt a great awe afternoons and a nameless urge to be 
whispered the Rat, as if in a trance. asked him. Large as he was, his pants fall upon him, an awe that turned restless, even in the groves of Paradise. You "Here, in this holy place, here if didn't fit him, and all their looseness in the his muscles to water, bowed his must say goodbye, for example, to your an~where, surely we shall fmd waist was tied together with a rope. He head, and rooted his feet to the favorite elm tree growing by the lakeside. 
H. .. 

liD. wore a faded sweater ravelling at the ground...It was an awe that smote You sat by that elm talking one night with 
--the Wind in the Willows wrists, and a fatigue jacket, ripped in the and held him and, without seeing, he your dearest friend from midnight until five seams, that only half-covered the length of knew it could only mean that some o'clock, and then made promises in the his arms. He looked as though someone august Presence was very, very dawnlight that said forever. In that spot by had been throwing paint brushes at him. near. the elm tree, you gave your heart away;
I'm not sure if Tim would have ever His skid-row tailoring would have embar­Perhaps he would never have dared now, having proved faithless, you must ~poken to me. if it had not been for Darby rassed the Bowery, but Tim couldn't have to raise his eyes, but that, though the recover your property, or always suffer O'Gill. Darby was a younger dog then, but cared less. piping was now hushed, the call and from the emptiness in the place where your he walked with a limp. Tim limped too; but "Oh," he said, "Friends had finished the summons seemed still dominant heart should be. with both the young man and the beast, using them, and were throwing them and imperious. He might not refuse, Then, before leaving this enchanted limping was a special grace that made their away." Art students, I have found, are not were Death himself waiting to strike place, you must remember the times when heauty seem more wonderful. I wasn't particularly· fussy about the toggery they him instantly, once he had looked you have glimpsed the face of God. He did noticing that afternoon whom Darby was wear to be daubed with paint, but Tim's with mortal eye on things rightly not come to you playing the music of the 
making friends with. until I turned around clothes seemed to misfit him in a way that kept hidden. Trembling he obeyed, pan-pipes. He was never seen as vision of to call him. Then I saw Tim half-kneeling told me he didn't like himself very much. and raised his humble head; and the Friend and Helper. You did not on the sidewalk outside the Huddle, one Yet he was completely precious, being then, in that utter clearness of the recognize Him as Shepherd or Saviour or arm circling the shaggy creature, and eyes more than ordinarily gifted in all possible imminent dawn, while Nature, as Lamb nailed upon a cross. For you, He that were watching me as though to say, ways. flushed with fullness of incredible was merely Christ revealed in the least (or"Please pay attention." The problem was, he had lived too long color, seemed to hold her breath for the best!) of His brethren: a baggy­"Hello," he said in tones that asked me on the frontiers of death. As a high school the event, he looked In the very eyes panted artist, walking with a limp, talking to talk with him. sophomore, he had been mashed under the of the Friend and the Helper with ·astutter.His face is as much of the face "Hello,'' I said, in tones intended to wheels of a speeding limousine. For month of God as God ever intended for you to see indicate that talking with him was the only upon month, his vital functions seemed at in this enchanted place. You must plan I had for the entire afternoon. the point of quitting. and doctors had Before leaving the enchanted place, the remember Christ wearing the paint-stained
"Darby and I are old friends," he said. written him off as being as good as dead. furry creature must listen to hear if the clothes, or for you the place may never "I've often asked him when he was going All through his illness, Tim had been music passes into words, before the Vision seem like an enchanted place at all. to bring you to see me." aware of their fears that the miracle of his fades from him forever. Forgetfulness is I don't know whether Darby serves the 
As he spoke, I could hear that he survival would abruptly halt. Now, he as the last best gift that the kindly demigod is faith of the Piper, or the faith of the Lord, stuttered badly over his words so that he mostly whole, except for the limp when he careful to bestow on those to whom he has but sometimes he brings home the waifs had to work hard to get sounds out. walked and the stutter when he spoke, and revealed himself, lest the awful remem­and the strays as though he were a "Where should he have brought me?" I an air that he had of not seeming to Jove brance should remain and grow, and shepherd's dog. He never said he didn't
-
said. I didn't want to tell him that my pet himself. overshadow mirth and pleasure. love you. 
~r.-..-~.:: -------:"'r._~.JI>Iii___..ABI.....---------------~..:~;,...-;·; ~;..;~~~"-~;·"J;;.,•.~·~·--.--·-----------.....-._,...I:II~ _ _.____""' 
An Ending That Is Only The Beginning 
Fr. Bill Toohey 

I get asked by The Observer to do a 
who do not yet give such evident signs of special column just for the seniors, and I growth and humanization. The timing is say to myself: "I just can't see doing a different for everyone. sentimental. schmaltzy thing; just be Not so long ago, someone criticized straightforward and say what's on your many of us who devote ourselves to service mind." to students by saying he thought we 
One nice thing: We'll always have wasted too much time on "a random something in commori. We're on the same walk." Sorry, but there's a lot more to "track"; that is, our graduation years ('52 ministry (whether in the dorms or campus­and '77) are such that we will come back for wide) than highly-structured programs and reunions together. Your graduation coin­orchestrated events, as significant as these cides with my 25th reunion; and I hope I may be. After all, Jesus was on a "random survive long enough to join with you when walk'' during much of his ministry (like the you come back for your first reunion in '82 time he walked along with the troubled (seems forever away). young men to Emmaus), trying to respond 
One of my classmates, who will be to particular needs the best he could. No coming back for our reunion the first one who works with students need apolo­weekend of this June. has a son here now; gize for trying, in some small way, to do and the other day he was telling me aboilt the very same. my friend, his father. "My dad has always So, that's what I've tried to say in this struck me as a guy who doesn't want to be self-giving, is to betray them in the most I remember saying to some of your final column. I've wanted to meet you on challenged in any real way. He doesn't blatant way, I believe. parents during your Freshman Orientation your walk these past four years. I haven't seem interested in the deeper questions of To challenge students is not always a that they were mistaken if they thought always done it very well; but there has life. He comes home from work, and he popular thing. None of us likes to consider Notre Dame would pledge to preserve been the desire. And there have been doesn't want to talk about things that seem the full truth about our shallowness, your faith during your time here. I tried to times when good things have happened-­important to me (like the meaning of life, self-obsession,infantile behavior; and it's suggest that that would be to promise far grace-ful moments, when God has been human rights, the plight of people, what not always a comfortable feeling to too little; for faith can only come as a present with touching and healing and a authentic success is). He doesn't even discover that we have responsibilities not response to experiencing God's love (in all lifting to greater life. I would hope we want to go to a movie that will make him to prepare to fit into an already-existing its manifestations). And no high school could be grateful for them together. think. He keeps saying, 'Don't challenge system of superficial values and injustice, graduate coming to college can have had It's really hard to say goodbye, and do it me.' This saddens me; for I believe he is but to ready ourselves to join the struggle enough of that to achieve the ultimate the right way. I just hope you continue to holding himself from experiences and to reform what needs to be changed and destiny of full, mature commitment. I walk, as true to your best self as possible. I forces that could make his life so much improved. You don't win popularity added that what I hoped would happen was just hope your walk doesn't lead you to richer than it is." contests if you constantly challenge young not that your relationship with God would become suckered into a system that 
I guess it's because I sense similar adults this way; but you can live with your be held in check, but, rather, that your four assures the preservation of the unequal things with other classmates of mine that I conscience. years would be filled with human exper­distribution of the goods and resources of have tried to challenge you during your I just wish my classmates and I !Jf.d been iences that encourage, inspire, mature and our world; that bears responsibility for the four years here with some very basic challenged more when we --.vere\. going redeem. As a result, I explained, you'd be oppression suffered by so many. On the questions about values, service to others, through Notre Dame; but that was a more faithful than when you first arrived. contrary, I hope your walk takes you to a justice, oppression, commitment to Christ different time, and I den't knock the faculty future with far greater riches. May you and prayer. To fail to challenge students in and priests for not doing more to expand _. I sense that this has happened to a lot of experience love, joy, justice, compassion ways that can bring about the development our narrow vision. It's different now, and you, and I rejoice in it.· On the other hand, and peace--and may you share them with of untapped resources of generosity and we can be grateful for it. I want to respect very much those others those you meet along the way. Take care! 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
the observer 

ND/SMC Theatre 





THE CELEBRATION OF ASPIRIT 
by Dauid O'Keefe 


A bird may love a fish, but where would they make a home together? --Tevye 
Wednesday, when I went to rehearsal to get a better idea of what to look for when Fiddler On The Roof opened on Friday night, I was struck by what seemed to me to be an awfully misconceived Brechtian nightmare. It couldn't work, I thought. Dr. Bain is taking the environmental formula way beyond its intended limits. I struggled through the full-cast run-through with my knees perched indolently on the back of the seat ahead of me, staring between my knees at what I was certain 
was  a  well-intentioned  disaster  in  the  
making.  
All  of  this  doomsaying  owed  to  my  

conventional belief that the environmental theater approach best lent itself to small, intimate, soul-baring drudgeries that rely ever so heavily on their ability to impress the audience with the alarming immediacy of the loneliness or decrepitude or vanity or whatever it was parading among and around them. It sometimes worked, I was willing to admit, in comedies or musicals, as long as they didn't risk alientation by over-exertion. But to impose that gel­atinous approach on Fiddler, a show that relies on the rigorous structure of complete illusion for so much of its success, was an unthinkable miscalculation. That is what I thought. 
Although I was miles from the mark, there was unhappily, an element of truth buried beneath my otherwise exaggerated fears. There are problems with Fiddler, for the most part transitional problems that stem from the environmental aspects of the production. The lack of a curtain or blackouts to punctuate the scenes insti­gates a blend of feelings, an unwholesome mixture in light of the fact that Fiddler relies on the establishment of competing emotions realized in some semblance of scenic integrity. It was precisely this failure in staging that muted the impact of such potentially strong numbers as "Sab­bath Prayer" and "Far From the Home I Love." Although both were wonderfully sung, they were staged in such a way that the audience seemed to be left with a listless uncertainty about what they were supposed to feel. 
Another problem arose from David Weber's design of the "performing en­vironment." Chief offender among the few props was the monstrous, multi-purpose "wagon" that served, at one point or other, as a means of transportation, a resting place. a quiet spot to catch a nap, and a perch for the Fiddler. It is difficult to imagine what was being communicated by having Tevye drag this burden about, looking for all the world like Jacob Marley's ghost trailing a ball and chain. Daniel Daily did all he could to look at least unburdened, but even he couldn't prevent the clumsiness of the thing from turning an otherwise poignant ending into a kind of funeral procession. The "Corner" prop, an anonymous building corner that served alternately as the Inn, the Dairy, and the Tailor's, was cleverly conceived but badly abused, with some performers respecting the implied walls and others walking right through them. As far as the scenography in Fiddler is concerned, the scenes that worked best were those that most faithfully adhered to the creation of illusion in its strictest theatrical sense. 
But the problems in Fiddler were neither depressing nor devastating, a fact that owes as much to the natural charms of the show as it-is written as it does to the irresistable charms of the show as it was performed last weekend. 
Daniel Daily (Tevye) is by now familiar to anyone who has seen a major production in the past few years. He has often impressed me as more of a technician than an actor. turning in performances that were as impeccable as they were emotion­ally sterile. But that was before I had seen Oaily's T~yye, jrrefutable eviqence of an authentic vers.a5itlity and -artistic imagina •. 


FIDDLER ON THE ROOF 

The Company The Fiddler.·.......•.....................Stacy Weaver Tevye ...........•........................Daniel Daily Golde .......... ~ ........•...............Lisa Colaluca Tzeitel .................................Maura Murrihy Hodel .....................................Joan Martel Chava ................................Hary T. Oliphant Shprj.ntze .....................................Pam Gay Bielke ...............................Theresa Richeson* Yente, the matchmaker ................Shevawn O'Connor Motel, the tailor ........................Sean Coleman Perchik, the student .....................Michael King Lazar Wolf, the butcher .................Gary Aumiller Mordcha, the innkeeper ...................Ed Schwallie Rabbi ...................................Louis Spisto Mendel, his son ................ , .......Steve Rodgers Avrahm, the bookseller ..................Byron Maltez Nachum, the beggar .......................Mark Amenta Grandma Tzeitel •........................Celeste Volz Fruma-Sarah ...•.......................· .. Carolyn Popp Constable ..............................Matt McKenzie Fyedka ...................................John Walker Sasha ......................................Tim Keogh Yussel .............................. , ..Xavier Garcia Shaindel, Motel's mother ........Lou Anne Catarinella 
The Villagers 

Marty Brauweiler 
*Maria Brown Genna Capozzoli Joseph Ceci John Clapp Dan Cole Patty Dondanville 
*Bob Ebel Brad Engelland Mark Ferring William Carrick Susan Groeschel Dorothy Hanrahan Cathy Heisler 
Joseph *Featured dancers 
** There will be 
*Michael J. Hudock >~Steve Hudock Lisa Jaquez 
*Patricia Kirk Mike McCord Ray McGrath Lisa Murray Theresa Rebeck Michele Roberge Joan Skelly 
>~Ed Tagge Lisa Turco Cyndi van Wynsberghe Kevin Witasick 
Zilvinskis 
one intermission ** 


\. .·.··, ·.. •. ' . 
tion that I hadn't noticed in past perfor­mances. As his career with the ND/SMC Theatre comes to a close, it only seems fair to call him what he is. He is, in every good sense of the word, a pro. It was a joy to see and hear his art. 
The rest of the cast is composed of solid talents as well as some uncertain abilities. Among the former, Lisa Colaluca and· Shevawn O'Connor prove once more in 1 Fiddler that they are as reliable as they are adaptable. Colaluca (Golde) demonstrates' a superb sense of balance in her character. Together, she and Daily combine to make "Do You Love Me?" the most happily accomplished song in the show. O'Connor has always displayed a natural ability for comedy, and here she gives Yente, the matchmaker, a dimension that raises her from the depths of caricature to a somewhat more sophisticated level. 
Of the three daughters, Mary Oliphant (Chava) most successfully combines acting and singing. Joan Martel's voice carries her performance as Hodel admirably, while 
Maura  Murrihy  seems  content  to  play  
Tzeitel  quietly.  As  for  the  daughter's  
lovers,  Michael King (Perchik) hurts  an  

otherwise good job with a somewhat stale "Now I Have Everything." John Walker exhibited customary control and precision as Fyedka, but gives an even better indication of his considerable talents with a delightful little piece as the priest. Sean Coleman (Motel) once again demonstrates his immeasurable, precious gift for making his character not so much important or effective as he makes his character endearing. As Lazar Wolf, the butcher, Gary Aumiller is quite entertaining, al­though his notion of stage presence sometimes causes him to bellow and stomp about like an hysterical pirate. 
One of the delights of the show was the ability of some of the performers to make forgettable, functional roles things to remember. Matt McKenzie plays. the heartless Czarist Constable with an inten­sity and dignity that convinces the aud­ience that he is, indeed, an outsider in Anatevka. It is a difficult role skillfully rendered. Also, watch what Mark Amenta does with Nachum, the beggar; Louis Spisto with the Rabbi; Steve Rodgers with Mendel, the Rabbi's son; and Ed Schwallie with Mordcha, the innkeeper, to under­stand that, on the stage,the part is as big as you make it. 
Although the music occasionally lags, (a phenomenon that seems to stem from a misunderstanding between the voices and orchestra as to who is accompanying whom), it is generally thoughtful and well-done. There is also a wonderfully idyllic ballet that serves very nicely to reinforce the delicate intimacy of Tevy's "Chaveleh." 
The ND/SMC Theatre production of Fiddler on the Roof goes far in pointing out the underlying philosophy of the program: that a production is meant, not as an intellectual exercise, but as an experience that is, in the end, fun. While there may be aesthetic ideals that I disagree with from the erudite cliffs of the critic, there can be no denial that the audience was in . the spirit of the show. From the informal welcoming ceremony, with cast members running through the aisles, shaking hands and saying, "Shalom aleichem, shalom aleichem," ("Peace to you, peace to you,") until Tevye's final farewell, "Shalom aleichem," Fiddler works with and for the audience so honestly and enthusiastically that the audience has not choice but to work with them. It works so nicely that one believes that there may yet be a home somewhere for the bird and the 
fish together. 


-~--~------~~~-~­
Friday, May 20, 1977

~the observer 
In University, students 
Hesburgh notes changes during his 25 years 
[Continued from page 3] University-wide reform in the edu­cation process. During the same 2S-year period, professors' salaries have been increased substantially, and a number of internationally recognized scholars have been added to the faculty. Hesburgh has encouraged a marked deve­lopment of student government at Notre Dame, stressing the impor­tance of personal responsibility in campus life. He was an early and vigorous supporter of the Peace Corps and was instrumental in establishing the first University­supported Peace Corps project. Hesburgh said he feels adminis­trators must demonstrate an active concern about important issues if they expect students to participate. '-I.e commended Notre Dame Stu­jents for their concern and work for -:~thers, citing as an example, the 
18.000 meals that students gave up during the recent fasting pro­gram and the $13,800 given to the Hunger Coalition this year. 
Reflecting on the differences in the student body over his 2S years at Notre Dame, Hesburgh com­mented that he saw no great changes in students in general. "Students are somewhat a reflec­tion of the age they live in." Students after the war were older 
'and more serious, he observed. "In the 'SO's, they were more slow­going and easy-going. I wouldn't say apathetic, but people were 
quieter  in the 'SO's."  
The student revolutions  of the  
'60's  brought  a  different  atmos­ 

phere on campus. "We had some really surly and cynical students at that time. I'd say today students are reasonably idealistic, if we give them leadership and turn them on. That's why I think it's important for students to know people around here are concerned." "I think if there's any place on earth where you could get rid of racism, it ought to be a university like this. I think most people around here are concerned about it. I would think too, that there is a lot 
~ 
of concern about war and peace and the proper use of resources and justice in the world. A great number of students here contribute time and wouldn't consider them­selves persons if they didn't do something. I'm very heartened too at the fact that so many students are learning while they are in college to serve. To me that's a · of education." 
defens-e of academic freedom on the campus, Notre Dame's presi­dent was awarded the prestigious Meiklejohn Award of the American Association of University Profes­sors (AAUP) in 1970. In nominat­ing Hesburgh for the award, mem­bers of Notre Dame's AAUP Chap­ter cited his defense of faculty members who had taken unpopular political and religious positions and his widely publicized letter to then Vice President Spiro T. Agnew in 1969, which urged a "hands-off" policy for the federal government in regard to campus disturbances. 
Hesburgh advocated a firm pol­icy for institutions of high learning in dealing with violent and disrup­tive behavior, but was equally insistent in calling for both protec­tion of the right to non-violent dissent by young people and for national insensitivity to the injust­ices at the heart of such protest. The Academic Senate of the Uni­versity of California at Berkeley awarded him the 1973 Clark Kerr Award for his "academic states­manship and concern for the larger needs of the national community.'' 
The peaceful uses of atomic energy is another area which has engaged Hesburgh 's interest. Identified with the "atoms for peace'' movement since its incep­tion, he served Pope Paul VI and annive~sary. [Photo by Dom Yocius] his two immediate predecessors as 

Throughout 'his administration learn to transcend the one thing when the commission was estab-permanent Vatican City represen­Hesburgh has reaffirmed Notre you learn how to do, but when you lished in 19S7, he was named its tative to the International Atomic Dame's conviction that it is not learn to do something I think you chairman by President Richard M. Energy Agency in Vienna for 14 enough for a university to develop ought to learn how to be somebody.'' Nixon in 1969 and served in that years until his resignation in 1970. only professional competence in its "That's my concept and I think it capacity until his resignation at He was appointed to the Holy See's students. Consequently, whether was a little easier to sell 2S years Nixon's request in November, delegation to the 29th session of educating students in the liberal ago than it is today. A Catholic 1972. Notre Dame, with the the U.N. General Asse·nhly in and fine arts, science and engineer-university should begin by being a assistance of the Ford Foundation, 1974, and headed the Vatican ing or business administration and great university in the full richness has established on campus a Civil delegation to Teheran, Iran, for the law. Notre Dame endeavors to of the modern university's reality," Rights Center which will promote 20th anniversary of the U.N.'s instill in them a sense of moral he has written. "It should be a the cause of civil rights in the Universal Declaration of Human values. I was very concerned in community of scholars, learning country and house Fr. Hesburgh's Rights. the beginning about liberal educat-and teaching and at the service of Commission papers. More than SO colleges and ion and we've made great strides, I mankind's total development in our Since leaving the Civil Rights universities have conferred honor-think, over the years in improving day. It should be a place where all Commission, he has been very a.ry degress on Hesburgh, among liberal education. I think today the great questions are asked, active as chairman of the Overseas them Harvard, Yale, Columbia, liberal education is under a great where an exciting comversation is Development Council, a Wash-Princeton, Dartmouth, St. Louis, strain because people are talking continually in progress, where the ington-based private organization UCLA, Michigan State, Northwes: about vocational education. They mind constantly grows as the formed in 1969 to promote effective tern, lllinois, Indiana, LeMoyne, want to learn how to do something values and powers of intelligence aid to underdeveloped countries. Fordham, Wabash, Brandeis, the whereas I think a University should and wisdom are cherished and He has also traveled widely in University of Southern California, teach you how to be somebody. As exercised in full freedom. Any Third and Fourth World areas, the Catholic University of Santiago I look back on my life, I've done the great university must be thus often on assignment from the (Chile) and the University of Vien­widest possible variety of different characterized, or it is neither a Rockefeller Foundation as one of its na (Austria). 
things. I think I've been able to do university nor great." trustees, and formerly served on Highlighting the long list of them because I've had a liberal His chief contribution on the the President's General Advisory speical awards given Father Res-education. I think you become a national level has been in the area Committee on Foreign Assistance. burgh is the Medal of Freedom, the person with enormous capabilities of civil rights. Appointed to the Many of his recent writing's, nation's highest civilian honor, which aren't locked into one partie-U.S. Commission on Civil Rights by including The Humane Imperative, bestows on him in 1964 by Lyndon 

ular thing. ...It is sible to President D. Eisenhower published by the Yale University B. Johnson. Among groups which Press in 1974, stress interdepen-have honored him are the National dence of the earth's peoples as the Conference of Chrisians and Jews, key to human survival in a time of the Urban Coalition, the American shrinking resources. As a member Jewish Committee, the Indiana Bar 
Senior Week included various of the board of the Chase Manhat-Association, the United Statesactivities including volleyball and tan Bank, he has emphasized Navy and the National Institute of a climb to the top of Stepan investment by transnational corp-Social Sciences. He is an elected center. [Photos by janet Carney] 
orations in underdeveloped fellow of the American Academy of countries. Arts and Sciences and the Ameri-Long associated with the staunch can Philosophical Society. 
~~~~~~~~~~ 




Irish athletic program in retrospect 
[Continued from page 14] will ever held in 1977. Vagas 
. Ferguson and Willard Browner showed f!~~~~~ of brilliance after an injury shelved Jerome Heavens 
· for the season after the North­western game. Rusty Lisch dem­onstrated his aggressiveness at quarterback after injuries to Rick Slager and Joe Montana prevented them from leading the Irish of­fense. Sophomore Joe Restic gained All-America mention for his secondary play after Randy Harri­son broke his wrist. Ken Dike was second in tackles after taking over for Jeff Weston in the season opener. The 1976 club featured the outstanding performances of Plan­ner Hall roommates AI Hunter and Ross Browner. The former became the first Notre Dame back in the school's fabled gridiron history to rush for over 1000 yards in a season. Browner set all kinds of defensive records and was named the outstanding lineman in the country when he received the Outland Trophy. The basketball team was pleas­ant surprise this year. With the losses of Adrian Dantley, Bill Lai!'lbeer and Bernard Rencher. few expected the Irish to even reach the NCAA tournament. But. this team proved you do not need a star to win in college basketball. In fact, if one examines the recent NCAA champions, it is apparent that the team concept is the key to success. Only Don Williams had averaged in double figures before this season began. The veterans were used to feeding Dantley. This year no one had the burden of scoring squarely on his shoulders. The Irish won their first seven games. including a very satisfying victory over UCLA in Pauley Pavil­ion. It was the first triumph for a Notre Dame team on the Bruins' homecourt In keeping with tradition, our players cut down the nets after the upset of the Bruins just as they had the previous three years in South Bend. Kentucky ended the string with an easy 102-78 victory in Louisville. Notre D'lme had climbed to a number-two ranking in the polls, and were actually rated number one going into the contest with the Wildcats, due to Providence's up­set of top-ranked Michigan the night before. The loss in Louisville quickly took the Irish off cloud nine. It seemed as if the confi­dence that had been built up in the first seven games had been de­stroyed in one night. The team proceeded to drop contests to Princeton, Villanova and Marquette before they got back to their winning ways. 
The peak of the season came in our last game at the ACC. Number-one ranked and undefeat­ed San Francisco invaded the ACC the first Saturday in March. For some reason you just knew we would upset the Dons. The constant description of other teams' problems when they come to South Bend as the favorite, no matter what the sport, must have psyched them out. The 93-82 victory was a great ending for the Class of '77. We came in with an upset of the number-one team and left with an upset of the number-­one team. 
The Irish hockey team gave us much enjoyment this season. By mid-Februrary it seemed as if they were on their way to Detroit for the NCAA finals. An overtime victory over Michigan stimulated interest in the sport that had not been seen in five years. Dukie Walsh was leading the league in scoring and fellow seniors Clark Hamilton and Jack Brownschidle were also hav­ing standout years. 
But, the playoff jinx, which seems to bite the winter sports at Notre Dame, struck again. Experi­enced and defending National Champion Minnesota ended Notre Dame's hockey season three weeks early with an incredible comeback 
F the series' second game. 
faulter in the NCAA playoffs was fencing. The Irish fencing team had by far the best record of any sport over our four years at Notre Dame. · The 1977 team won the national ·championship in the NCAA 'finals held at Notre Dame. Mike Sullivan and Pat Gerard won individual national titles, and Tim Glass also gained All-American 
honors as the Irish bested the field of over 60 teams. 
This \vas ·no ordinary fencing tournament. After the hundreds of bouts, NYU and Notre Dame had finished in a tie with 114 points apiece. But Mike Sullivan and Pat Gerard defeated their counterparts from NYU in a fence-off to give the Class of '77 its second national championship. 
The non-revenue sports have not received much attention in this article. They have not been as successful as the revenue sports. It is not the fault of the coaches or the players that the baseball team, tennis squad or track clubs are not fighting for the national title. It is difficult to convince a promising high school baseball player to come to Notre Dame when another school can offer him a full scholarship. The minor sports do not receive the grant-in-aids the revenue sports do and it shows in the teams' reocrds. 
Despite these setbacks, many of the school's "other sports" have · made some significant accomplish­ments. I have alrealy elaborated on the success of Mike DeCicco's fencing team. His success is especially noteworthy considering the amount of scholarship money he gets. Coach Noei_O'Sullivan's golfers have been very successful, losing only a handful of dual meets since he took over as coach four seasons back. Tom Kelly's base­ball team has also done well considering the caliber of competi­tion they face. The same goes for the wrestling, track and tennis teams. 
I am not attempting to make a case for further financial aid to our minor sports. I don't know the economics of the situation well enough to form an opinion on the delegation of funds by our athletic department. I'm only, saying that criticism of our non-revenue sports for their failure to compete with the nation's best is not justified until these recruiting disadvantages are alleviated. 
Some tend to criticize Notre Dame for its apparent emphasis on athletics. Granted. we are involved in the big-time atmosphere in basketball, football arid hockey. But, I feel the mixture ·between. sports and academia at this univer­sity is at the best. possible level. Notre Dame is not a Harvard, but it is no a jock school either. The University provides an. all-around 
education. 
Sports at Notre Dame is import-· ant because it is the prime reason for the unique and valuable· spirit that exists within the University community. The interest in the sports teams creates a common effort or a sense of unity among the students. This is a unity that lasts for ever and is a reason for the strong ties between Notre Dame graduates. A perfect example of this unity and community spirit took place on campus last week. 
Adrian Dantley returned to cam­
.come back to the Dome demon­· strates the unique and lasting spirit that seems to be instilled in almost everyone who attends Notre Dame, 
· be he an average student or a national celebrity. Notre Dame is not a football or basketball factory. Among the top 100 football powers in the·nation, only Notre Dame can boast a 100 percent graduation percentage of its ex-athletes in pro football. It has upheld the rules and dealt honestly with its ath­Ietics. We may not be the best school in the country academically or ath­Ietically, but those connected with the school think we are. It is our pride in ourselvt:s and this belief that we are the best that makes us the best, whether we win the national championship or not. 
pus to enroll in ·summt:r -;chool to .-------------.. 
complete his requirements for graduation in August. He could have corresponded for readmission by mail. but Adrian wanted to return to campus for a few days. He could have resided in a plush hotel, or some expensive re~idence befitting a man who had just made over 200 thousand dollar<; in one year. But. Dantley stayed in lm old residence dormitor~·. Fisher Hall. 
The desire of our arhlelt' tt> 
Era of Ara 

authors present 
I 1m Pagna and Bob Best, co­Jut h,1rs ofthe book Era of Ara, will be 'l'-(ning copies of their work on tlw '>L cond floor of the Notre Dame H,,,htore tomorrow from 10 a.m. 
: n.m. 


And we can offer outstanding career opportunities in Engineering, Programming or Marketing. 
We will be interviewing at 
The University of Notre Dan1e on July 7, 1977 

To find out about IBM and let us find out about you, sign up for an interview at the Placement Office or write to: Ms. M. Dawkins, College Relations Representative, IBM Corporation, One IBM Plaza, Chicago, Illinois 60611. 

An equal opportunity employer 

~~.d£~,.1rir..!i51WW''""~----•--..:.::.;....;..;.._,_,_u••••••-~-•~~:a~-.-lliii:iwaaai:iU•i•i!-!i•!!•-!!!!!!!:!!!!:!!:.,_!:!!~-!!!:~~·::·~·~~,.,~"~-~~..-.,.~..-··· 
U.'t,,....v.·,.. :,.:.,,...:."..y V·' .••·,~ >~ , . . . . t.:J!'~ ..:•:-.''\:'~...~~>vt ~:..~t~.. 
~ 
J 
Friday, May 20, 1977

14 the observer 


Notre Dame athletics from 1973-77 
[Continued from page 16] them towards a National Cham­pionship. 
The 1974 season was not over for the Irish, but most Notre Dame fanatics wished it had concluded in Los Angeles. How could Notre Dame, in such a depressed state possibly compete on the same field with number-one rated Alabama in the Orange Bowl in the wake of such a humiliating defeat? The Crimson Tide not only had the desire to win the national title, but also the added incentive of gaining revenge for their 24-23 loss in the Sugar Bowl to the Irish the preced­ing year. Notre Dame had further problems brought on by the na-

OF "SOUTH BEND ~ 
., 
your choice 

Vodka Gin 
$7.98 Uter (half gal. size) 

1725 N. Ironwood 
and 
113 Dixieway N. (Roseland) 
tiona! media who claimed Notre Dame's collapse at USC was not by accident. One sports writer on the West Coast claimed the team had multiple fights in the lockerroom at halftime between white and black players. This was ridiculous, just ask the present seniors · 
On December 15 Ara Parseghian shocked the sports world by an­nouncing his retirement effective at the conclusion of the Orange Bowl. This statement obliterated all the maladies the team had as they headed to Miami. The team was dedicated to victory for Ara in his 
final game. Seniors Greg Collins, Mark Brennamen and Wayne Bul­lock played the entire game with serious injuries. It was a crusade. 
Notre Dame snapped the nation-a! title hopes of Bear Bryant for the second year in a row with its 13-11 conquest in the Orange Bowl. It was a fitting end to the legendary career of Ara Parseghian. The way the team rebounded from the depths of despair after the USC game to best the number-one ranked team in the country a month later made you proud to be a part of the school. We ended the season ranked fourth in the land and had it not been for two quarters of poor play against Purdue and USC we might have claimed the title again. One can only guess what might have been had the problems of the pre-season of 1974 been eliminat­ed. 
The 1974-75 Notre Dame basket­ball team was referred to as the Adrian Dantley show. With the losses of Gary Brokaw and John Shumate, who both opted for the professional ranks a year early, Dantley was forced to carry the whole team. 
best in the country when perform­ing on its own court. This cluib was 12-2 in the ACC, but 7-8 on the road. Dantley scored over 30 points a game off Phelps' "A.D. blue" offense, but when he was double-teamed others had trouble taking up the slack. The high point of the season for the second year in a row was an 84-78 upset of UCLA, the eventual national champions. The season ended in New Mexico, where Maryland defeated the Irish 83-71, but there was not the disappointment in the team that existed after the preceding year's loss to Michigan.
J • y
u n lOr ear 
_1975 76 

Optimism reigned once again as we returned for our junior year at Du Lac. Ara was gone, but the new guy had won 75 percent of his college games in tough conferences. when he coached in the "minor leagues" of football. Dan Devine had also taken Green Bay to a division title in the pro ranks. But., the return of Hunter, Browner, Bradley, Fry and Knott had the campus jumping. Browner and Bradley did not get as much ink in 1973 because they were only fresh­men, but everyone knew they had made the difference between a successful season and an undefeat­ed campaign. Fry and Hunter had unlimited talent and had been held back by Ara in 1973. 
After three victories in 12 days to open the season all was wonderful with Dan Devine and the Notre Dame football team. We were 3-0 and already on the cover of Sports Dlustrated. ·But, a 10-3 loss to Michigan State at home dimmed heroics of Joe Montana we would have suffered losses to lowly North Carolina and Air Force. The "Monogahela Minute-Man" became a mini-legend for his fourth-quarter comebacks. · 
Title hopes could have been rekindled with a victory over USC, but Rickey Bell's 160 yards in 40 carries helped John McKay beat Notre Dame again, 24-17. Pitts­burgh's Tony Dorsett ran for 303 vards in only 23 carries as the 
Panthers ran by Notre Dame three weeks later 34-20. Devine · was subjected to much pressure by fans and the press during and at the end of the season. The Irish had finished 8-3, a successful ledger anywhere but here according to the press. But, that 1975 team was loaded with inexperienced players. The Irish did not journey to a bowl game, the only year we did not participate in a post-season extrav­aganza in our four years at Notre Dame. This fact tended to stir up things also, but the 1975 team just 
was not good enough to go to a bowl game. 
The 1975-76 edition of the Fight­ing Irish basketball team had the potential to be the finest in the country. With a nucleus of season veterans like Adrian Dantley, Bill Paterno, Ray Martin and Toby Knight, and the addition of High School All-Americas Bill Laimbeer, Bruce Flowers and Bernard Ren­cher, Notre Dame fans could not wait for the season to commence. But, early season losses to Indiana, Kentucky and UCLA extinguished many of our dreams. This team appeared to be overloaded with talent, as Phelps continually jug­gled his top nine players in search of a cohesive unit. 
became scholastically ineligible. He had become a dominant force under the boards with a very impressive outlet pass that re­minded one of Bill Walton. Bruce Flowers took up where Laimbeer left off. The 6-9 frosh led the team in field goal percentage. In fact, the Irish only suffered losses to Marquette and Maryland after Laimbeer's early departure. 
The Irish entered the NCAA tournament with a 22-5 record. They competed in the Midwest Regional, a division composed of solid teams, but no one was a legitimate favorite. Could we finally get by the second round and make the final four? After a Toby Knight tip-in to beat Cincinnati in the first round we looked like the destined Cinderella team of the tourney. But, the following Thurs­day Michigan eliminated the Irish from the competition for the second time in three years in the second round. Dantley was again out­standing in his final game for Notre Dame, but the combined efforts of Phil Hubbard, Rickey Green and Johnny Robinson were too much for A.D. to overcome, as Michigan triumphed 80-76. 


S • y
enlOr ear

1976-77 
1976 may someday be called the foundation year. It was a year in which our players gained experi­ence for the future. The football team had another 8-3 regular season, but closed with a Gator Bowl victory over Penn State. The performance of many young play­ers who saw a lot of pia) !ng time due to injured starters gives Notre Dame one of the deepest clubs it 

! 
I 
~ 

~------~;iiiiijiiiiiiii;;...jAis~u~s~u~a~l~th~e~t~e~a~m~w~a:s~o~n~e~o~f~t~h~e..o~u~r~h~o~p~e~s~.~H~ad~it~n~o~t~b~e~e~n~t:o~r~t~h~e1111A~ft~e~r11~0~g~aYmlels~B~i~ll~L~a~im~belelrl.111111111r~c~oin~ti..nuedonpage 13] 






GREAT BOOKS ... •
-


GREAT GIFT IDEAS! 
THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
A POTRAIT OF ITS HISTORY AND CAMPUS 
Hardba_ck $25.00 BY THOMAS J. SCHLERETH Paperback $7.95 

ONWARD TO VICTORY THE NOTRE DAME COOKBOOK 
A CHRONICLE OF THE ALUMNI BEFORE AND AFTER THE GAME By James E. Armstrong $8.95 Edited by Flo Yearedel 

SHAKE DOWN THE THUNDER! WE REMEMBER ROCKNE 
THE BIOGRAPHY OF FRANK LEAHY By McCallum & Costuer $7.95
By Wells Twombly $8.95­

WAKE UP THE ECHOES THE GLORY OF NOTRE DAME 
NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL 22 GREAT STORIES OF NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL By Ken Rappoport $8.95 Edited by Fred Katz $1.95 

THE FIGHTING IRISH A COACH'S WORLD KNUTE ROCKNE 
NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL THROUGH THE YEARS By Digger Phelps YOUNG ATHLETE By Gildea $12.95 By Guernsey Nan Ripey, Jr. $2.95 

ROCKNE. 

NOTRE DAM~ 100~ COACHING GENIUS, CELEBRITY--A LEGEND REVISITED '1 By Brondfield 
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 2nd FLOOR 
To the Big O's Ad Staff High inches or low inches, its been a really great year for me, thanks for putting up with all my yelling!

Classified Ads 
Good luck to you Stevie, hope you have some salesman who can fill out cotracts, get their inches in on time, .and remeber to change the copy in their semester ads! I Jove you all! 
Fran,

Colleen Rothfuss: to the safest date on campus The BOSS
Just got you back and have to sayYou've been a big part of my life up its been an amazing 4 years! 

ciao again. Will miss ya, Cutes!

here. All 1 can say is congratllla­from our motley crew in 703-4-5-6 JoAnn
tions, thanks and I'll miss .you next to skiing In the center of the Babycakes, year. universe. Best of luck in Seatle next You may be short, you may wake
Ellen,

LOve, year and thInk of us still stuck up crabby, and you still are the most
To the best roomie and the best 3

Mo on Corby St. naive person I ever met, but I
years. 700 miles isn't that far. I'll 
love ya! Can't wait to set up the

---------------
say a prayer. Thinking of you ....
Chester, little Wok under our own roof!
JoAnn

Congrats and Happy belated Valen­Mickey tine's Day! 
Mom, Dad, LOis, Randy, and my Red Cloud, Sitting Bull and Running
Carol fiancee, Julia, Buck, Here's looking at you -Di, Jo, Thank you for coming to my The countdown is almost over! I'll Mouse, and KrazyB.C. 
graduation, from the bottom of my miss you all next year and I promise
J To my bestest, really. Take care, I'll 
heart. I'll write. "Annie" -what's to say, except,miss you. 
LOve, Chief Accountant "you know I Jove you best" and I'm 
Me 

Lee buying stock in Bell Telephone. I To Missy, Chris and Cheryl, will never forget the TRP's, the 
INFAMOUS FIVE---------------­
To the grad Gand (my old faithfulsl-It's been fun knowing us, hasn't it BR's, the friendship I would have What will Zahm Hall be without 
PERSONALS Val, Gregg, Dan, Tim, Bob, Pat, been? We'll miss you. We also plan been lost without. Thanks for the 
you? 
Fred, Mike, Tony and Tom (Yo_u too, to carry on all the Kagel Hall memory.
----BETTER! 
Carolina> --For your patience, traditions including the lamp shade Your B.C.
Doll, 
dedication and occasional sobriety
1can't thank you enough for all the -dance.
Pal-all my gratitude. It was a great, SOR,
great times. I hope there will be And now the end is near so I'll say 
good time. (I still think we should Roxanne, O'Brien, Put on Your Boogie shoes and getmore. 
All my love, CONGRATULATIONS! Hope have endorsed Jerry). It's been real! down to Miami. 
things always go "your way" --· 
On-Frizz LOve,HOR 

REALLY! K.
The gangBuddy 

Congrats Dr. Dougie Chuckle,_ Remember always weekend in NewLove is ... 
Shirley's won't be the same Without England and me.
finding someone else who loves Chuck,
Bim, 
you! You make mee happy! Califor­You've given me some wonderful M.
Volvo station wagons! 
Understanding comfort and "good nia here I come! Really. memories these past two years -I'll
times" are what you mean to me! Jove, bitchin' eyes. always them. Poopsie,
cherish AlwaysEileen-Bean, Love, 

remember. Run out of clever phrases. I'll misswith our increased vocabulary Chi­

cago. is ours!! Car Dana, "We cannot discover new oceans ya. Gosh. 
Best wishes and parayers for smooth unless we have the courage to lose Your Ford Dealer
Mike (Leo)
Peggy-After 4 years of roomie­sailing in the future. Good luck in sight of the shore." I wish you all
After the years of growing up, what 
romance is Ed still the one? Jaw school, keep in touch. the best that life has to offer!
is there left to be said. Always 
Mark LOve always,remember the times in Lebanon ­Joyce Sam and ChupeCarines and Succi­even the times in Molly's room. 

Tom, Pat, Dan-see you stinkers in the fallTo three years of loving devotion See ya, How can we help but miss you guys Dearest LW 54, sbfrom you two. May you always 
Paula 

remember me as the sweet quiet next year? Congratulations on Your first and last: I Jove you and person that I am. making it through. bove you, before and after gradua­Grandma Kath tion. Happy lifetime to you! Always, BO'C LEMON BABIES AND FRIENDS. 
Dear Bob, your little girl when you get tired of paintingI'm happy and sad at the same time. Chicago red remember those of us
CONGRATULATIONS. 
What more can I say except J;;hr,(M'a-;;-~;;;;-a;;~h?) ___ who are 
still waiting for that first Congratulations?
Go forth and share your Aliveness 
and Life with the rest of the world Beware-the Lemon Babies are out. rejection letter (Are they ready for Lemon Women?) Love, Happy very belated birthday. sb 
Kathy

Stop by and visit anytime -You're LOvely welcome always. 
Roomies,
Later-JD Chuck,
How about a game of French Congratulations on graduating! 
Tommo .

Monopoly in 20 years. luck good groupieS
Valerater-lt's almost time for our I'll miss you Good at T. I. and luck Groupies may come and
and our jelly bismarks. always.
Graduation Kiss. Waiting im­may go, but pals like us gotta keep
patiently!! Your "where am I roomie" LOve, In other words,
in touch. WRITE 
Lil' sister YOU B'I5T?D!!! 

Fred, To my one and only, Congratulations Joe Collins you did Have a memorable stay in HC. I As NC says, "This will be an it! Good Luck, Vicki best wishes everlasting love-this will be the one
don't know your address but you Melissa you finally made it! EX Boss know mine. Keep in touch. its been real
I've waited for." So please take my Vicki and Katie Jove and keep it forever. its been fun
Sunshine 

LOve you always, Notre Dame Jazz Combo at Vegi­buf.. ...... Mary, Mary quite contrary-How do Your "Crazy Kid" table Buddie's May 20 and 21; 9:30 gonna miss ya next year you spell graduation? pm Take good care of the missus and 
Debba Lou keeppracticing that jumper from the
ToSUNDEF IX See you in Angers. Toni, line.
foul Steve and Greg, Best of Luck 4-30-77: Thanks for another good Sb 
Anabel

Thanks for increasing my vocab­Beaux Arts. 
Your Pal --------------­

ulary. Paul, Sir Galahad,
To Roomies:
O.K. It's been a great year. I'll miss you. 
Lancelot and Gunievere were noth­me Ann-Orexia M. and "Tiger" Wendt. Class of '77: If you'll be in Southern ing compared to us!!! 

ART, Best of Luck! California June 6th, the NO Club of Thanks for the last two months!
Love,

Isn't it ironic? Happy day! Cassy, Joanne, Sheila, LA invites you to a "Welcome and Lady shoe
Karen I'll miss you twits! Take care. The Third Wheel gongratulations Party" at Manhat­Marynell tan If you be there, --------------­
Beach. can Jay, Disco, Philbs, Whiz, Doctor,

Sister Kathleen, Goodbye! Beth, Kerrie, Debby, please call Mary Beth at 1287. (P.S. and Bings:
Patty, Mel, Mary Ann and all the Bring your bathing suit and
Thanks for the best seminars ever. WALT LING: volley We'll always remember your sticks.
rest. Have a good life.
Deb Just because you are graduating ball.) 
NDLCthings aren't any different. You still 


Drew --------------­

Bill-Thanks for all the good times, aren't welcome in Breen-Phillips. To our Crazy Neighbors on 4thyou're super. 
Sean R.
Maybe even Fort Wayne is too annex who are going to Rome and
Knocking thrice .
Deb close.... 
other bigger (and hopefully better)Replying twice, things. Good luck! We love you all.

Nothing.
Dear Snufflepuss, JoAnn, Saint Camille and Maureen
Only a week and I miss you already! Many thanks for all the good times. How about a Weekend in New ELS Calling wolf -
--------------­
Rich, Joh, And Chris ­Once too many times.

England? I'll work on it. 
Here's your very own senior person­

Love, Dear Mary, Debbie, Peg, Beth, Bev, al, All of you deserve only the veryKnock againTiga Sharon, Kathy, Bridget and LOuise best. Much luck. You've made thisBut be there.
P.S. Heilbrommer (the IBW's), year very special to me.
Lou J.J.

Thanks for all the good times. 
Thanks­

Mom and Dad, Congrats on making it through and Paula
To my Roommates-328 HC SMC ­ents. Kath A special note and a special prayer ---------------­Thanks for being the greatest par­good luck in the "real world." 
Bedroom Blue Eyes:

Thanks. You have been the great­
Debra Annie Thanks for the Wondertul Year.

est. Oh yeah.
To Pa and Little Joe ­Here's to another summer of (short­Love, J.J.
Dear Betty of LaFortune, The Ponderosa just won't be the er) distance calls: BicentennialThanks for all your hard work in our same without you I'm gonna
two. weekends: Chicago concert swims.
Connal M. Tripple-see, offices during the school year. Have miss you a heap. I know · I'm Love you, 
a good summer. showing my youth! 
Sunshine

Nectar of the finest wines,
Observer Staff Hoss 
Topped with Cold Duck, --------------­
To Terry, Gregg, Tom, Dan, Steve,and toasted

Tommy, Froggie, 
Mike and last (but most of all) my

Together.
Thanks for being my bestest little We've had, "Notice I'm not help­ugly brother . Happy graduationChampaign
brother. ing" to "I've been thinking." All 
and good luck. I'll miss you all.

Love, the luck in SLS. I Jove you very Refreshed Love,Sorted together
Debbie much. I've been thinking too. 
Maureenand Southern Comfort.

Super NAV 


Ed Murphy: Lou J.J. --------------­
Christopher Robin • 

This place won't be the same JBM, ROTC JOCK, 
There's ·no poem this time, onlywithout you, Eddie. -J. Kiss, Kiss, 1 love you. Kiss, Kiss. Thanks Columbo, Gerry, Greg, Jeff, hopes that beautiful things are yours
Even if you are one of those lousy Remember me! Steve, Puppy, Hog, and "the Fonz" FOR SALE: forever. Will see you soon.
Democrats, you mix a good Republi­Froggy crackers for everything. You guys are simply STEREO: Love,
can drink! -One of the honest ones. AWESOME. BSR turntable frazier speakers, Ed, Thank God you're leaving -One Vicki, Larry Mac realtone receiver CAM-FM) $110: Pooh birthday a year is enough. -D. Til mountains crumble to the sea. Call Rav 8828 or 8829. FOR SALE: 
LOve always, It's been beautiful knowing you all. NIKON FTN CAMERA with somm Paul Uska: Mark Now 1 can remember and realize FOR SALE: 1 . 5 Lenses, fiJters. cases, etc. I'll really miss ·gazing at that how -growth is the only evidence of 1961 Jaguar 4 dr. classic, leather. 233-1950 
gorgeous, trim, sleek, athletic body Bill, Jim, Phil, Moons, Bridget's life. For all you girls I will no longer tires, brakes, exhaust, excellent. No next year! -J. see -1want to spend time with you,
everyone else. Twas great. rust 233-1950. 
Mar

Despite your "Rocco" jokes, pillow Mark take you out -----.,--------...--­
If you get a call next year for

accusations, Ace Hi tours and But there was so little time and so Observer Graduating Seniors: 
broken promises, you're still a very Vicki, best little to money. you all. Thank you and the Although I'll be in the hospital on a dozen egg rolls to go, will 
you know who It Is??

special guy. -M. Couldn't say goodbye that soon. your graduation day, be assured Next time let me see what goes on Enjoy your summer. Til we ·meet LOu J. Janda that I'll have a "bed side" seat for behind closed doors at the Ace Hi! again -1 Jove you. the big event on TV. Congratula­
-D. Willie Woozle,
Mark tions and Good Luck to each of you.
Help! 1can't live without your pink 
L.oveyaDoug DiPalma: • Ginger, socks ... and God Bless, A long ride to Cleveland truly will be Remember Chi, Bos, Pitt, Dall, LA. Pumpkin "Observer Mom" 
hell without you! -J. best of all N.D. Great times never to 
Eric Ryan: You've been wonderful to work 
Now without the beard, you're much be forgotten! Debb)e, Peggy and Mary, 
more sexy!! -M. ML It's been real, I mean, I don't Next time I'm speeding by a cop on believe it!
·with. Good luck and Happiness the Ohio turnpike I'll think of you! "Forehead" God bless you all.
always. 
-Lead Foot Congratulations! We both made It! LOuise LOve, LOve, Val 
Terry Fitzgerald: Flukie Goodbye to Tom, Dan Chris, Gene, Those gorgeous brown eyes -Shit! Mom and Dad z.
Tom, Pat, Bob, Val, Greg, Mike and Tom and everyone else..Have a
-J. Congratulations Frances Street: Thanks for everything!
good life. 
19th at Kubiak's, even though you Oakie: Sorin College, Club NiCki, Drew Val were in no shape to remember it! Fooz-ball, call me at 4 am, Waldo, 
Thanks for helping me celebrate my Pops, No Hands, Skew, Bo, F~e~, Love, 
Orlando,
-M. Dylan, Bruce, Glen, Celts, Bean­
Saandd•d~ _

Last time I'll say it-you look like my
Town, taxi, Necco, Michelob, Flood, To the best junior in the senior classshmoof, the evil weed, Pit, So­and to her senior roommate.
SIS

cakes, sacred stereo, it's cookies! 
--I_ "" ~ •

-··1···.·~···t f' ...... ,. ,.,-........ 





~----~---~ 

Four years of Irish sports reviewed 
by Tim Bourret began the Tuesday evening before minute with a series of option!. and mance (2 points, his career low), destroyed before the school year 
Sports Writer the Saturday games. The psychup Notre Dame claimed sole posses-Dantley said, "My legs felt like log even started. 

Freshman Year 1973-74 
When we entered Notre Dame in September of 1973 few expected the Irish football team to be anywhere near the national title picture. Ara Parseghian's gridders hadjustlfinished an 8-3 season, the most losses the coaching legend ever suffered in one season during his tenure under the Golden Dome. 
There were just too many holes to fill on defense, a unit that yielded over 40 points a game in its final two outings of 1972. Time and again during the 1972 season diminutive scatbacks turned the corner on Notre Dame's flanks for considerable yardage. This was never more exemplified than in the season ending consecutive losses to Southern California and Nebraska. Anthony Davis ran for six touch­downs in the regular season finale and Heismann Trophy winner Johnny Rogers accounted for five scores in a humiliating 40-6 Irish loss in the Orange Bowl. 
Ara realized this flaw' in his defensive alignment so he em­phasized the need for quick 
aggressive defenders in his re­
cruiting journeys of 1973. Par­
seghian found what he was looking 
for in Ross Browner, then a 218 
pound enQ from Warren, Ohio, and 
Luther Bradley, a 6-3 defensive 
back from Muncie, Indiana. 

Browner made his presence felt in the first quarter of the first game of 
1973 when he blocked a punt for a safety against Northwestern. Bradley also cracked the starting lineup in 1973 as a freshman. He remedied many a problem from his 
strong safety position as led the team in interceptions despite the presence of All-American Mike Townsend, and nearly established a standard for passes broken up in 
a season. 

Bradley saved the most incredi­ble performance of his rookie year for Southern California, the defe,1ding national champions and long time nemesis. I have never seen a defensive back have a finer game than L•1ther Bradley had that year against the Trojans. No Notre Dame senior wt1! ever forget his beheading of Lynn Swann on the Trojans' first offensh·e snap\ that overcast day in South Bend. That play set the tempo for the whole game. Bradley made two p!votal interceptions, recovered a fumi.;le, forced another and generally hat· rassed future all-pro Swann all afternoon. 
For most of us, that final weekend in October in 1973 was the \ finest we had in four years. It was a weekend unique to Notre· Dame 1 because of the intensity of the entire campus generated by the , spirit of this place. Pep rallies ~ continued through the week, and peaked in the third quarter of the game when Eric Penick jetted 85 yards for a touchdown to give the Irish a 20-7 lead. We held to a 23-14 victory behind a stellar defense, which limited Anthony Davis to under 60 yards and only one touchdown, a consistent of­fense, and a little luck (remember a fourth down play in the final quarter when Tom Clements fum­bled the snap, but an alert Russ Kornman grabbed the ball in mid-air and dove for a key first down.) 
The post game celebration lasted well into Sunday morning. The goal posts were torn down despite their predominately steel construe­tion and brought to the steps of the dome so that Our Lady could share in the victory. Pieces of the goalpost were later distributed as souveniers. 
Notre Dame ended the season as it started, with a convincing 44-0 victory. The victory in the season finale at Miami gave the Irish a 
perfect 10-0 record, the first un­blemished season since 1949. All that remained was a Sugar Bowl whoedown with Alabama. Bear Bryant's club was rated number one in the country on the basis of 
some impressive offensive statis­tics and an 11-0 record. The Irish were rated third going into the 
contest. \However, the game was built up as a battle for the national championship, a rarity for the college game. It was a college Super Bowl. 
The New Year's Eve extravaganza of 1973 deserved every line of publicity it got. It was a classic battle of two well-balanced teams. The contest had more key plays and lead changes than most basketball games. The key play of the first half occurred in the second. quarter. Alabama had just taken a 7-6 advantage after a tough drive, and the momentum had definitely turned toward the Tide. But, on the ensuing kickoff after the Randy Biullingsly's touchdown run halfback AI Hunter ended Ala­bama's temporary feeling of nir­vana. The Greenville, North Carolina native raced 93 yards for a score. The entire Notre Dame team raced into the endzone to congrat­ulate ••young Hunt," who had returned only three kickoffs all year. 
The second half was filled with momentum and lead changes. But, the key play, a down that will be recreated in Notre Dame football lore as the play that gave the Irish the National Championship was a third and eight pass by Tom Clements to Robin Weber from the Notre Dame three. The 35-yard reception. I was only the second tatch of the year for the sophomore! tight-end) who caught only 15 passes in his three-year career. Tom Clements ran out the final 
sion of the National Championship 
on the basis of its 24-23 victory. 
By the time we had won the 
National Championship in football the basketball ·tealtli was also on its way to national title acclama­tion. Digger Phelps' club captured its first nine games with relative ease. The success of the team was not as much a surprise as the resurgence of the football team. All five starters were back from the 1972-73 team and the addition of freshman Adrian Dantley, Bill Pa­terno and Ray Martin gave Notre ·Dame one of the deepest squads in 
the land. 
On the basis if impressive victor­
ies over highly-regarded Indiana 
and Kentucky teams, the Irish 
climbed to the number-three rank­
ing in the country. On January 19 
the Irish faced number-one ranked 
UCLA. This was not just another 
top-ranked UCLA team, for this Bill 
Walton paced quintet had not lost 
in three years. But,. for some 
reason you could sense the Bruins' 
88-game skein was going to be 
snapped on this frigid winter 
afternoon. Notre Dame seems to 
thrive on nostalgic or ironic situa­
tions. The Bruins last defeat had 
come at Notre Dame in 1971, when 
Notre Dame's Austin Carr de­
stroyed the Perrenial National 
Champions with a 46-point perfor­
mance that still brings back fond 
memories to Irish fans. 
UCLA did not believe in the 
abilities of the young Irish team. 
The senior dominated Bruins broke 
to a 33-17 lead in the middle of the 
ftrst half and it looked as if victory 
number 89 was in the bag. But, the 
Irish cut the deficit to 43-34 by 
halftime, a margin that would 
hold until the game's final three 
and a half minutes. I still cannot 
explain that final 3:22 in which 
Notre Dame overcame a 70-59 
disadvantage by scoring a dozen 
unanswered points to capture a 
bizarre 71-70 victory and the 
nation's number-one ranking. 
Why John Wooden failed to call 
timeout after the Irish closed to 
within three points after a pair of 
majestic Gary Brokaw jumpers is a 
mystery to me. It took a 
right-corner jumper by Dwight 
Clay that gave Notre Dame a 71-70 
lead to force him to call for a 
stoppage of play. Four Bruin shots 
in the final 26 seconds failed and 
Notre Dame became the number 
one team in two major sports for 
the first time. From January 19 to 
January 26 we had the top college 
teams in two major NCAA sports. 
This happiness lasted only a 
week for the Bruins gained revenge 
in Los Angeles with a convincing 
94-75 victory. Digger Phelps' crew 
ran off twelve more wins before a 
season ending loss at Dayton to 
finish 24-2 for the regular cam­
paign, the best Notre Dame bas­
ketball record in almost half a 
century. Everyone felt a rubber 
match with UCLA for the national 
title in the finals of the tournament 
was imminent. 
The Irish mauled Austin Peay in the first round by 42 points, the largest margin of victory in the history of the NCAA tournament. The University of Michigan was the opponent in the semifinals of the mideast regional. Unfortunately, the contest was played in Tusco­lusa, Alabama, the home of Ala­bama University. Barna fans still were smarting from the Sugar Bowl loss so they gave all their support to the Wolverines. The Irish might have been better off playing in Ann Arbor. Michigan spurted to a 28-8 lead in the first ten minutes. John Shumate led a furious rally that brought Notre Dame to a three point lead with eight minutes to go, but Campy Russell still had fire­power in reserve. Overall, it was 
Russell's 36 points and 18 re­bounds that beat Notre Dame that night, but a 5-24 combined shoot­ing performance bY Adrian Dantley and Gary Brokaw did not Digger 
Phelps' team much good. When asked after the game for a reason explaining his mediocre perfor­
cabins." That 77-68 loss to There was still some hope for the 
Michigan ended out double nation-football team though. We still had 
al championship dreams for 1973. the best coach in the country and 
The hockey tt:am was as disap-the best quarterback. But, the pointing as the football and basket-speed on offense and defense that ball teams were surprisingly sue-had given the 1973 team the added cessful. The 1972-73 Irish were one dimension it needed to win the goal away from going to the final national title was lacking. The four of the NCAA, and that goal backfield of Art Best, Eric Penick was scored off a power play after a and Wayne Bullock might have bogus penalty call on Notre Dame been the most proficient in Notre winger Ian Williams. Everyone Dame history. They all played was back, so by mid-January there during the 1974 season, but never was no reason to believe we could at the same time due to injuries and not win three national champion-suspensions. The loss of Browner ships in the same year. and Bradley from the defensemade 
But, this team could not put a us as vulnerable on flanks as the winning string together. The same 1972 team had been. weekend the Notre Dame basket-Notre Dame began its national ball team upset UCLA Lefty title defense with impressive victc­Smith's leers slaughtered num-ries over Georgia Tech and North­her-one rated Michigan Tech 7-1. western. But, on September 28, The talent was there, but it was not 1974 the Purdue Boilermakers, who exploited consistently. had upset Ara Parseghian teams 
four times in the sixties, bested the Sophomore Year Irish 31-20. It was the first time the Class of '77 had seen a losing football game. Alex Agase's team, 1974_75 who had tied a lowly Mid-American 
On St. Patrick's day 1974 I Conference team the Saturday vividly remember discussing Notre before, shocked Notre Dame with Dame's chances for a double 24 first-quarter points. Most of us national championship with a close felt the season had ended. We friend from another school. This were used to undefeated seasons. optimism was not irrational. We Wasn't a losing season a campaign had four starters back on the in which you lost one game? basketball team, including three We proceeded to defeat seven players that gained at least honor-victims in as many weeks after that able mention All-America status loss, but the margins of triumph the preceding season. Phelps also were far from satisfactory (10-3 had a find recruiting year in over Rice, 19-14 over Michigan landing Duck Williams from Mack-State, 14-6 over Navy). But, by the in High School in Washington D.C. season finale at USC we had and Dave Batton from Philadel-re-entered the national title pic­phia. The football team returned ture. 1974 was a year of upsets in 17 of 22 starters from a national college football as evidenced by the championship team, including the fact that a team with a loss and a tie entire backfield led by the leading won the National Championship. candidate for the Heismann Tro-The Southern California game of phy, Tom Clements. 1974 was the most nightmarish, 
The events that took place be-unpredictable athletic event of o•Ir tween March and September of four years at Notre Dame. Tom 1974 were not consistent with "the Clements had a masterful first half luck of the Irish." The football as he Jed the Irish by land and air team lost Eric Penich, one of the against a sieve-like Trojan defense. most gifted backs in Irish history, Ken MacAfee, then a freshman Steve Quehl, a starting lineman, caught many passes in the USC Tim Simon, a key defen!.ive back secondary for big yardage. At and punt returner, Ross Browner, a halftime students began making future Outland Trophy winner, plans for journeys southward a-Luther Bradley, an Ali.. American round the first of January. Tom defensive back, Willie Fry, a Clements was probably composing starting defensive end, AI Hunter, his Heismann Trophy acceptance the fastest back in Notre Dame speech . history, Danny Knott and Roy Notre Dame kicked off the sec­Henry, a pair of key reserves, for ond half. Anthony Davis jugger­reasons including injury The loss of naulted his way up the Notre Dame the players was bad enough, but sideline 97 yards. The earthquake by the end of 1974 Notre Dame had begun, as the Trojans scored suffered its greatest loss; Ara four more touchdowns in the Parseghian. infamous third period. Davis 
Digger Phelps also caught the scored 26 points by himself in less bug as he lost John Shumate, to an than a quarter as the Trojans early graduation and Gary Brokaw outscored the Irish 49-0 in the to the hardship rule. Aspirations of second half to take an enigmatic achieving two national champion-55-24 verdict, a win that escalated ships in the same year had been [Continued on page 14] 

, 
, The Notre Dame basketball team relied heavily on Adrian Dantley to 
1 
tarry the bulk of their attack in the 1974-75 season, due to the departures of john Shumate and Gary Brokaw. 











