

------------~­
Lof_ts, 
·panelling, partitions prohibited in dorms 
by John O'DonneU 
Brother Just Paczesny, vice presi­dent for Student Affairs, has issued a directive that students will not be allowed to construct lofts, parti­tions, paneling, or wall coverings in residence rooms. This directive was issued as a result of the recent fire in Morrissey Hall, and it will go into effect immediately. 
Paczesny stated that paneling already present in rooms will not be torn down now, but this may change in the future due to fire regulations. "If anything is dan­gerous," Paczesny warned, "it will come down. Some students have constructed lofts to serve as double bunks, which are very dangerous and must be stopped. The people sleeping at higher levels are more susceptible to smoke inhalation shoulda fire occur. Wall coverings that are a fire hazzard, such as 
burlap, will also be prohibited.'' 
~ 
"Members of the hall staff have become lax in enforcing safety regulations," he added. 
Paczesny viewed the recent fire as a "happy fault" in which everyone has come to realize the dangers of fire without any injur­ies. Due to the recent fire, a committee is being formed to study this matter in order to develop a firm policy on fire regulations. Paczesny suggested this policy may include the elimination of double bunks and/or a reduction in stu­dent enrollment to compensate for overcrowded dorms. 

Students should also be aware of the strict penalties involved in the misuse of safety devices. Paczesny warned that any tampering of fire hose cabinets, portable fire ex-• tinguishers, and sprinkler systems will result in severe disciplinary action and probable expulsion for all persons involved. 




server 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's Vol. XII, No. 14 Friday, September 16, 1977 



Approximately 260 students met outside the Neighborhood Roots. [Photo by Doug Christian] Memorial Library yesterday to participate in 
Full-tim~ faculty rep to attend all mee~1ngs of proposed CLC 
by PhD Cackley Senior Staff Reporter 

The addition of a full-time faculty representative to the proposed Campus Life Committee (CLC) was made public yesterday by Student Body President Dave Bender. 
The revision of the proposal to replace the existing Student Life Council (SLC) with the CLC was made at the end of last year, after an SLC meeting at which the members expressed a major con­cern for the paucity of faculty members on the proposed council. The revised proposal was sent this summer to University trustees. 
The original proposal called for only one member to be appointed by the Faculty Senate. The member would attend every-third meeting, alternately with the vice­president for a student Affairs and the Dean of Students. 
"There wasn't even a quorum at the meeting,'' Bender explained, ''which only adds credibility to my call for change." . But the mem­bers discussed the proposal any­way. ''The biggest complaint was that there was only one faculty member," he continued. As a result of the meeting, a full-time faculty member, also to be desig­nated by the Faculty Senate, was added to the group. 
The revisi.on Ieav~s the sug­gested cour~c~ only slightly ~hang­ed. Remammg are the s1x hall rectors (thr~e from _each quad), the four hall v1ce-prestdents, the stu­de~t body president, one represen­tative each frc:>m St~dent U~ion and the Hall President. s Council (HPC) a~d thre~ ex-officio members, ~he vtce-pres1dent for Student Affatrs, the Dean . of Students, and a representative from the Faculty Senate. 
Bender made the proposal to scr~p the_SLC an~ create the CL~ a maJor pomt of h1s SBP campatgn pl_atfor!D last March. The SLC.' !1 tripartite body of students, adm1m­strators and faculty, was created in 1969 by the Board of Trustees to deal w1th rules and regulations on
student life. 
. 
The council came under heavy
. 
attack I ast year because of 1ts lack
· h b 
of action. T e a sence of a quorum
. 
prevented a number of meetmgs
· h ld d · . .
from bemg e an cnttcs clatmed
. 
meetmgs that were held were
bo ed do n b. dl d" . 
gg . w Y~n ~ss tscuss1on of toptcs of margmal mterest.
. 
The emphasis of the new council
ld b d . l"f
0
:hf h B e d upof. o~m~~ry· 1t e, c en ~r c alms IS e cen er 
of student hfe. .He feels rectors
. 
and hall vtce-prestdents more qual­
"fi d
11e to address the problems of
·r th 
on-campus l1 e en persons who reside outside of the university community. _ 

Bender's CLC proposal itself was 
criticized for being the wrong 
solution to the SLC problem. 
Certain observers claimed the dif­
ficulty lay not in the structure of the 
SLC, as Bender thought, but 
rather in undynamic student mem­
bership. Critics of the proposal 
asserted that the disajlpearance of 
the SLCwould be harmful to stu­
dent interests. 
The Board of Trustees accepted 
the proposal for study at their April 
14 meeting. The Student Affairs 
Committee condidered the plan 
over the summer and will report to 
the board in October. The SLC 
cannot be changed without the 
approval of the trustees. 
u til th 0 t b d · · h 
n . e c.o er ec1s1on ! e 
SLC wdl continue to function 
11 "I' · t
norma y. m gomg o go on 
k" "th th SLC " B d
wor mg w1 e , en er 
t t d N th" h h d h
s a e . o mg as c ange , e 
dd d d th · 
a e , an ere ts no more
1 bb · t b d f h
o ymg o e one or t e 
1 "A f I' 
proposa . . s ar as m con­
cerned, the final arguments have 
b d d th · · t " h
. een rna e an e JUry IS ou e 
t d ' 
commen e . 
Bender stressed if the proposal is 
not accepted by the trustees, he 
"II t t t bl k "t t"
wt no ry o oc 1 s ac tons or 
ffi · "W 'II k "th. h t
e c1ency. e wor w1 w a
" h 'd
we can, e sal . [continued on page 16] 
'Neighborhood Roots' tours South Bend 
by Maureen Eyres 

Neighborhood Roots, a program geared toward the development of a just neighborhood policy, began its schedule of events yesterday with an excursion through the South Bend neighborhoods. 
Approximately 260 interested students participated in a tour through a cross-section of neigh­borhoods comprising a typical American city. The tour was capped by a J>olish wedding ban­quet at the Z. B. Falcon Hall on the west side of town, with speakers interpreting the groups observa­tions of the town. 
The tour included affluent neigh­borhoods as well as declin~ng and decaying communities. "The pride people have in their neigh­borhoods and the diversity of each neighborhood was easily percep­tible," one student commented. 
"Their is really no good or bad neighborhood.'' 
Another student commented that 
''it emphasized the socio-ethnic 
differences of South Bend. Like 
any city, it had great wealth, 
middle class, and poor sectors, all 
striving for peace in co-existence." 
In his talk following the meal, Carl Ellison, director of Human Resources and Economic Develop­ment for South Bend, issued a challenge to students to "become more involved beyond the realm of academics by interacting with the neighborhoods, the building blocks of the city.'' Suggesting intern­ships with the Department of Human Resources, Ellison invited interested students to find ways to preserve the city. "Some people like it the way it is and want to keep it that way." 
Prof. Tom Swartz of the Eco­
nomics Department agreed with 
Ellison on the issue of preservation 
of the neighborhoods when he 
warned that if the neighborh~ dies "the city as we know it will die." 
The agenda also included speakers from the Polish and Spanish communities talking on the stability of their communities. Olga Villa, representing the Span­ish Westside, spoke of the pro­blems found in the larger social sphere that abound in the "micro­cosm of 'los barrios'." 
Due to the success of this first neighborhood tour, plans are being contemplated for a second neigh­borhood experience in the near future. "More students will un­doubtedly be interested as word of the first experience spreads," claimed a graduate student. "The trip proved to be a teaser to increase student interest." 
Other suggestions offered after the initial outing included an idea that the tour be included as a part of freshman orientation. "Then," one senior noted, "freshmen could become familiar with their new environment aside from the im~ mediate campus grounds." 
The tour exposed students to a few things they had never seen before. Even an outhouse was spotted in a neighborhood of ' 'm$ ,fgp ..~.. l(entucky hills. South Bend residents who led the expedition ventured into areas they had never seen before. Mrs. James Roemer a coordinator for the Neighborhood Roots Pro­gram, confessed that she "was on streets that she had never before been on." 
Val Hardy and Barb Frey, 
student coordinators, outlined 
ways for the students to become 
involved with the neighborhood 
through the student lobby and 
CILA. It was hoped that with 
continued interest in the Neigh­
borhood Roots Program students 
will become an integral part of the 
outlying communities of the 
campus. 

---~------· --­
'1' tli'$.,bb¥4twtf'· _ Hitby, 'Se~reWtber 16, ·~· 
on Campus. T~d~;··--Humanitaria? Gregory to speak 

friday sept. 16, 1977 112 noon-10 pm 
10 am 
4:30pm 
7 pm 
7,9:15, & 11:30 pm 
7-9 pm 7:30pm 
8 pm I 9-11 pm
i 
uAday sept. 18, 1977 Oam dunes trip, nd-smc junior classes, all day, bus leaves le mans parking lot at 10 am $2 0-5 pm art sale, a.c.c. concourse 2-5 pm antique show, a.c.c. fieldhouse pm meeting, mecha, basement of Ia fortune pm recital, by darlene catello, crowley hall organ studi 
4 pm meeting, nd-smc world hunger coalition, Ia fortun Iitie theatre meeting, cila, and mass at the howard chapel 
Due to tremendous response there 

9am 
. 

11-3 pm • 12 noon-10 pm 1:30pm est 
,9:15 & 11:30 pm 8 pm 
9:30-11 pm antique show, a.c.c. fieldhouse 
symposium, "social studies of science", sponsoreby the center for the study of man in contemporary society, lib. lounge, open to the public 
math colloquiam, "the proof of the four-color theorem" by prof. kenneth appel, sponsored by the math dept., rm. 226 ccmb 
bible study meeting, grace penthouse, sponsored by the campus crusade for christ 
. film, "network", sponsored by the stud. union, eng. aud., $1 
exhibit, paintings by margo hoff, moreau gallery 
on... quickie, shuttle bus to mich. sponsored by the stud. union, .50 one-way or $1 round trip 
meeting, catholic alumni club, lib. lounge 
nazz, performance by joe bauer and sally dentz, basement of Ia fortune 

saturday sept. 17, 1977 · 
tennis tournament, ball state, elmhurst college, lewis college, smc, taylor u, u of dayton, nd, valpo "student union plant sille, second floor Ia fortune ­antique show, a.c.c. fieldhouse football, nd vs. univ. of miss. at jackson 
film, "network", eng. aud. $1 dramatic performance, "second city", sponsored b smc soc. com., o'laughlin aud. smc, call 4-4407 fo tix 
nazz, first nd jazz combo, basement Ia fortune midnight mass, sponsored by howard and badin grotto 


on human r1ghts devel~pments 
by Valerie Stefani 
. . . ' D1ck Grego!{' w1ll d1scuss recent developments m the human rights
movement in a lecture on Monday, Sept. 19 at 7:30 p.m. in the Memorial Library Auditorium. The program, sponsored by the Student Union Academic Commission and open to the public without charge, is the first in a series planned for 
the current academic year. Deemed "the world's foremost 
free-lance humanitarian", Gregory 
.united Way campaign starts at ND-SMC 
by John Gruesser 
.. 

The 1977 United Way campaign for St. Joseph C011nty officially Ibegan with a speech by Frank E. Sullivan at Sf. Mary's College 1yesterday. United Way organizers 1 at Notre Dame have instituted 1 many changes to achieve their goal 
of greater percent participation. 
"The theme is not how much people give but that everyone give something," said Charles Wilber, head of the drive at the University. "Members of the staff will get my letter, a letter from Fr. Hesburgh, and a United Way pamphlet in the near future, and by Oct. 1st the faculty will receive the same," Wilber continued. "After that people in every department will follow up." 
The United Way is a voluntary community organization that raised mortey for 34 local service agencies through a single fund drive. Because it is voluntary, 96 percent of the money raised goes to the service agencies. The United Way is the only fund raising campaign endorsed by the University. 
Prof. Wilber said, "Notre Dame is part of the South Bend commu­
f*The Observerl 
Night Editor: Marti Hogan Asst. Night Editor: Frank Kebe layout Staff: Paula Carroll Editorial layout: Pat Herr­
mann Features layout: Dave O'Keefe, Maureen Sajbel Sports layout Paul Stevenson Typists: Mardi Nevin, Tom Powanda, Leigh Tunakan, Karen Chiames Early Morning Typist: Rich 
Uarizo Day EdUor: Mary Beth Moran Copy Reader: Bob Varetoni Ad layout: Klurn Djvergen 
and friends lPhotographer: DougChristianJ 
Student Union Plant Sale 
Sponsered b~ the S.U. Seruices Commission 
Sat., Sept. 17 



11:00 am·-? 

LaFortune Ballroom Alf Plants at Wholesale Cost 
.lades Palms Wandering Jews 

has fasted and demonstrated in an effort to call attention to social injustice in America. He is one of the principal spokesmen for minor­ity groups and has been associated with various civil rights programs for several years. In 1974 Gregory 
drew national attention when, in an effort to dramatize the world hunger crisis, he ran from Chicago to Washington D.C. in a 800-mile "run against hunger". 
In addition to being one of the foremost human rights activists, Gregory is also an author, social 
nity and has a major obligation to it. Giving to .the United Way can discharge much of this responsibi­lity. If this money is not raised voluntarily, then federal money will be necessary.'' 
The ultimate success of the University's drive depends on stu­
. dent participation, which fell short of its goal last year. J. P. Russell, in charge of student organization for the United Way, has transfor­med the drive from a hall responsi­bility to a single week of concentra­
ted personal contact throughout the · 
University slated for Oct. 8-14. 
"This way we hope to get one dollar per person with about 95 percent participation," Russell commented. '"We all have a responsibility to give what we can to thi~ · nationwide and all-encom­passing organization," he added. 
The Observer Is published Mon­day through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. TIJe Observer Is published by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased tor no per year (S 1D per semester) from The Observer, P.O. aox Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. SH~Gnd class postage paid, Notre Dame, Indiana, 46556. . The Observer Is a member of the AIIOCiatecl Press. All repro­duction rlgllta are reserved. 
Sat. Sept. 24th 
satirist,. and political activist. He · officially entered politics in 1967 when he rlin as a write-in indepen­dent candidate for mayor of Chicago 
After graduating from Southern Illinois ·University in Carbondale, IL, Gregory became one of the most successful black comedians of the sixties. Though he retired from night club performances in 1973, he continues to perform at benefits for various civil rights and peace groups. 
Terry Joiner of the Academic Commission said that Gregory was selected as a speaker because of his noted work in the hunger coalition and his appeal as a popular lecturer. According to Joiner, the Commission plans to present "a, balanced collection of people" in this year's lecture series. 
· 
Bar-B-Que 



l. & 
Beer 
~~~ 
Restaurant _and Lounge  \S'  
Featuring  the  finest  

in hickory smoked barbeque -oooked over an open pit with special 
sauce 
.75 or $1.00 Pitcher's of Beer with Dinner HAPPY HOUR DAILY 
4-7 p.m. 
Pitchers $1.25-$1.50 Beer.35 
4-3 a.m.
1132 S. Bend 
daily
Ave. 
closed Sun.
Phone 
and Mon.
289-0639 


-~new time 5:00pm -10:00pmES (after the game) 
IN NILES (only 20 min) 
FOOD BEER BAND 
MAPS ON TICKETS 

Friday: 
9:00. 11:00 
Joe Bauer Sally Dentz 



Saturday: 
.9:30 -11:00 
Notre Dame First Jazz Combo 

refreshments available 
I 
' 

by Rosemary Mills Staff Reporter  I  
Notre Dame's Student Health  
Center is more than just an  
infirmary.  
"We are not considered an  
emergency service," said Sr. Mar­ 
ion Ruidl. administrator. "Our  
mainconcern is with the general  
health of the student."  
The Center handles roughly be­ 
tween 1500 and 1800 students per  
month. Both undergraduate and  
graduate students qualify for care,  
whether they live on campus or off.  
According to DuLac, the prin­ 
ciple objectives of the Health  
Center are to assist stude ·,ts in  
staying healthy and to provide  
health care when needed. To meet  
these goals, the center offers  Students await out-patient care at the Notre  Dame Student  
out-patient services, a pharmacy, a  Health Center [Photo by Doug Christian]  
blood center run in conjuction with  added. the students  hall, the assis  


~-----~-~-----------~-----­
Friday, September 16, 19n • the observer 


Co-ed Report does not affect education at SMC 
by Jean Powley St. Mary's Editor 

Single-sex education as it exists at St. Mary's is not affected by Notre Dame's Report on Coeduca­tion filed last May by the Commit­tee to Evaluate Coeducation, ac-. cording to St. Mary's President John M. Duggan. 
"I read the report as addressing coeducation at Notre Dame, not as a criticism of single-sex education at St. Mary's,"he said. 
St. Mary's admissions were up five percent this past year, Duggan pointed out, explaining that the college is having no problem with its present direction. 
Although he emphasized that, in his opinion, Notre Dame should not discriminate against women, Duggan admitted that he never wanted to see the combined num-
Student Health Center explained 
the Red Cross,  a  dietary service,  The pharmacy  at the Center is  rector, the resident assistants, and  
and a 38 bed in-patient facility.  open  from  8  a.m.  to  4  p.m.,  campus ministry.  All other visiting  
Staffed by six registered nurses,  Monday to Friday.  Allergy rued- is  done by special request  for  a  
the clinic is open from 7 a.m. to 11  icine  is  .distributed  from  1  until  special purpose.  
p.m. Monday to Friday. University 2:30 p.m.  Any prescriptions  are  "The patient is here because of  
physician  Dr.  Robert  Thompson, subject  to  the  approval  of  a  some  kind. of  stress,"  said  Sr.  
and  his  assistant  Dr.  Bernart university physician.  Marion, "the physician istrying to  
Vagner, are available from 9 a.m.  Dr.  Thompson,  however,  said,  protect  him  from  any  further  
to 4 p.m.  There is always a doctor "It would rarely be the case where  stress.  Some students will go to  
on call.  a  physician  would  refuse  a  pre­ classes and return to the Center for  
Besides  the  general  prac-scription brought from  home,  es- treatment, meals and rest."  
titioners, two specialists have been pecially if it comes from  someone  An  on  campus  student  is  not  

added to the staff. Dr. Samuel who has consulted a physician charged for staying overnight at 
Bechtold, a gynecologist, has been outside." He said that this rule added "to meet the needs of the applies mainly for prescriptions women students," according to Sr. given at the clinic. Marion. Because of the great Also open during the same hours number of injuries in athletics, Dr. is the laboratory. Routine tests are Leslie Bodnar, an ort~opedic sur1 analyzed here. Emergency lab geon, has also been htred. work is sent to a nearby hospital. 
Emergency service is available According to Sr. Marion, if the through the in-patient facility Center cannot meet the student's where at least one registered nurse need a list of specialists within the is always on duty. This faciltiy also community is also available. employs a nurse's aid or a licensed "Generally the student does not practical nurse. A doctor is always know a doctor, so we recommend on call. one,'' she said. She added that the 
For emergency situations, the student does have a choice among Center orders extras of normally the specialists. "Of course," she stocked prescription drugs. These emphasized, "if it's an emergency are dispensed by the nurses "un-we will send him to the doctor who der the supervision of the doctor," can treat him fastest." 
~!~i;~-aMn~;~:;;g ~~~rs~o:~r~~t i! on~~rfh!81~:gde!~-fo~t~~n!!:~f::Z!~ diagnosis." Most such cases deal our size," Sr. Marion said. with colds, sore throats, and other Admision to the facility is usually minor ailments. made through the out-patient din-Severe emergency cases are ic. Students can ask to be treated temporarily and sent to admitted, but final approval is either Memorial or St. Joseph's given by the doctor. Once admit­Hospital, depending upon the stu-ted, only the physician can sign the dent's request, according to Sr. release. Marion. "Although Memorial is "Sometimes," said Sr. Marion, the only hospital that takes psycho-"a patient is admitted to protect logical patients that require admis-the other students.'' The only sion or possible admission," she visitors allowed are the rector of 
HI -Fl 10-NIGHTMADNES 
..



STEREO SCENE ' 

SOON! 
her of Notre Dame and St. Mary's women exceed the number of men. He feels that there should be "a healthy ration" between men and women on the two campuses combined. 
Coeducation significantly im­proved the environment at Notre Dame, according to the report. Adjectives such as less artificial, less homogeneous, healthier, more human, more normal, more hum­mane, wholesome and others abounded on questionnaires completed by students and faculty. 
Duggan said, however, that these changes were noted because women were introduced to the formerly all-male campus. Women have that effect, he said. So St. Mary's already enjoys those favor­able conditions. A different set of 
adjectives would be used if men were admitted to an all-female college, he stated. 

''With coeducation generally, men have a lot more to gain and women have a lot more to lose," Duggan said .. 
The co-ed report's assertion that Notre Dame women feel "a sense of success ...because oftheir admis­sion to a university of high repute" also applies to St. Mary's women, Duggan said. "Our students should also feel a sense of success at being admitted to a college of high repute," he stated. 
Many Notre Dame women also 
credited the University with giving them confidence as women. "By successfully entering the man's realm and struggling for recogni­tion they grew in independence, gained appreciation for their gifts and came to a recognition of their 
the Center. "Off-campus students usually go to the Center for little things," explained Sr. Marion. 
With the exception of Dr. Saturdar Bodnar, who is considered in at 1:00 p.& 


____...... _
private practice, their only charges are for medication and lab work. 
IIIEI11C1m IY IIIII. TODAY
There is no charge for simply visiting the clinic or seeing the doctor. 1 Te: Stdl ._..,.,.lilYO.u.tn Asleollhi!M.
----.. ~-~-----~-~-~---­Charges are drawn up by an 211 W. hrtllllllrt •., S.. lellll, 11. 48811fth. %32-6343 RESDYED accounts clerk and forwarded to the f I COIICIIt liliES PIICES uti.T STIIDEIT 801 SEAT Main floor & Mezzanine _--$28 ~14 S32
office of student's account. From I first latceny ____________ $22 11 there the billing is sent to either the J Second & Tllint Balcony ____ $16 8 student or the parent. I encllse 0 cHcll o ...., ...., fer S.•..••.•.••.. fer ............. liolttts.' 
Office hours of the Studentl 
0 ltlitlt 0 shl4tnt 0 bex

Health Center and phone numbers 1 
IIIIi! titklts tt: 

can be found in DuLac. I 
11
----······························································ 

! :~::::::::::::::::::::::::::5~;;·_·_·_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_·_·_-_·_·:.·.·.·.·~-~~~~~~~~: 
;...... ----------------_.,. --------..,.._I 

worth,'' the report stated. 
Duggan said he feels that it is a moot point whether women develop better with men or with women where there is better appreciation for academic achievement and the atmosphere is less artificial. 
SUNDAY MASSES (Main Church} 
J 

5:15 p.m. sat. Rev. Robert Griffin C.S.C. 9:30a.m. Sun. Rev. Edward O'Conner C.S.C. 
10:45 a.m. Sun. Rev. James L. Shilts__C~S.C .. 
12 :15 
p.m. Sun. Rev. William A. Toohey C.S.C. 

Vespers will bet at 7:15 p.m. in Lady Chapel. lfhe-celebrant will be Rev. James L. Shilts C.S.C 
.... 

October 15 
saturday at 8:00 p.m. 
November 121 
Saturday

at 8:81 p.lll. 
St. Mary's Dean of Student 
.: Affairs Kathleen Rice declined comment on the report, stating that she had not yet read it. 
Sister Elena Maits, St. Mary's representative on the Committee to Evaluate Coeducation, could not be reached for comment. 

_::J4L___ _.t._.hl!lle~ot.-b.usllllleiiiiJrvL.ll.leiilJrL..._______F_ridar. September 16, 19n_ 

Fraud mars usage of student billing numbers 
by Mary Ann Moore 

The Student Billing Service pro­vided by Indiana Bell Telephone Company is taken for granted today by Notre Dame students. :ltccor-

ding to Mrs. Conklin, service operator for Indiana Bell, the Billing Service came into existence only six years ago as a result of a mutual agreement between the University of Notre Dame and Indiana Bell. Conklin said the most prevalent problem today is that of fraud. The student billing num­bers, similar tocreditcard numbers, allow direct long-distance dialing for direct dialing rates. The numbers are listed in sequence, 
NO Cricket Club to compete 
The Notre Dame Cricket Club will travel to Springfield, II. to­morrow to play a one-day limited voers fixture against the Spring­field Cricket and Croquet Club on Sunday. Eleven players have been chosen for the game and a twelfth man will be announced on the morning of the match. 
The Notre Dame Cricket Club is the oldest cricket club in the Michiana region. It was establish­ed two years ago under the direction of Fr. Dan O'Neil, foreign student advisor. The club consists of players from India, Jamaica, Great Britain and Australia. Players from the United States are also welcoll!e. 
'Candy Bomber' returns 

BERLIN [API -The "Candy Bom­ber'' came back to Berlin yester­day, revisiting the city where his handkerchief parachutes of sweets are still remembered from the 1948-49 Berlin Airlift. 
"It's really great to be back," said former U.S. Air Force Col. Gail S. Halvorsen, beaming from behind the controls of a refurbished 054 transport he flew here five years ago to be used as an airlift memorial. 
Halvorsen, 56, now a student service officer at Brigham Young University in Provo, Utah, made 122 flights during the airlift that kept West Berlin supplied during the 19-month Soviet blockade .Jf land routes to the city. 
A South Atlantic transport pilot during World War II, Halvoreen volunteered for airlift duty in 1948. His career as the "Candy Bomber" began after he shared two sticks of chewing gum with a group of sweet-hungry children. "Those who didn't get the gum insisted on smelling the wrap­pers," he recalled. "It was then I knew I had to do more." 
On his next flight, he started dipping his wings as a signal and then dropping candy in handker­chief parachutes. He bought the candy with his own ration card and used his own handkerchiefs. 
"We were worried about getting enough handkerchiefs to continue, so we inscribed a note asking the children to turn the parachutes over to the military police," he said. Even though Berliners were making clothing out of flour sack in thosedays, eight of the first 12 parachutes were returned the same day. 
Halvorsen-style airdrops caught on with other airlift pilots and attracted attention in the United States. 

and it is therefore relatively easy to interchange the individual numer­als 
Virginia Hahn, customer service manager of the business office for Indiana Bell, said that many incor­
rect  numbers  are  given  to  the  
service operators.  However,  she  
said  the  incidents  of  this  have  

reduced considerably. Last year Indiana Bell absorbed only five percent of unbillable tolls which, Hahn claimed, is excellent. "A maior oortion is most likely human error," she added. 
• The Student Billing Service would like to believe that the majority of incorrecC numbers are human error, but fraud is a reality and students can be prosecuted for fraud if caught. Indiana Bell has several existing fraud cases pending. A separate investigation department has been established to follow up possible fraud cases and to find out where to bill misplaced calls. 
When notified of a misbilling, the Student Billing Service re­moves it from the students bill and then sends the misbilled number to the security department for investi­gation. The student is notified immediately if any discrepancy arises. 
Conklin said the Student Billing Service was created to eliminate the multitude of problems con­cerning long-distance calling. Prior to the creation of the Student Billing Service, a pay telephone was the only link from the Notre Dame community to the outside world. Numerous problems, such as having the correct change and parents' futile attempts to contact students, led to the conclusion that a more convenient system was needed. 
The Student Billing Service is not unique to Indiana Bell. Several other states incorporating large Universities, have similar arange­ments. All have gone through different periods of fraud. Stu­dents are urged to avoid lending out their billing numbers since this tends to increase the number of misbilled · calls. 
Usage percentage of Stude~t Billing numbers is high already thts year, but if any student has not yet received their student billing num­ber they are requested to call 237-8182. 

Jet crashes; 20 found dead 
ALBUQUERQUE* N.M. (AP) ­An Air Force jet crashed and killed the 20 persons aboard when it exploded on a mountainside near high security nuclear storage facil­ities, authorities said yesterday. 
An air traffic controller said he had tried to warn the pilot that the plane was going to hit a ridge, but moments later the plane slammed into the mountain without any acknowledgement that the pilot had received the message. 
The crash late Wednesday night at the Army's Manzano Base, a nuclear weapons storage facility, occurred three minutes after the plane took off from Kirtland Air Force Base on the outskirts of Albuquerque. 
When asked by a reporter how close the plane came to any bunkers loaded with fissionable materials, information officer Capt. Ben Orrell said, "about half a mile." 
But Orrell then said he "couldn't 
say" whether there were nuclear 
materials near the crash site. 
"I cannot confirm or deny the 
presence of nuclear materials on 
any base anywhere in the world," 
Orrell said later in response to 
further questioning. 
The traffic controller, who de­
clined to be identified, said he 
radioed the pilot that the plane was 
too low. But he said he wal> unable 
to raise the cockpit crew. 
''The first indication we had he was in trouble was when the radar showed he was too close to the mountain and flying too low," said 
the controller. 
"We hit him on the guard 
frequency and told him to turn 
right and climb ... but he never 
did," the controller said. 
The controller said the pilot, 
identified as Capt. D. M. Hickey; 
of Colorado Springs, Colo., 
did not respond by radio or with a 
signal indicating he had received 
.1e tower transmission. 
The plane hit with a tremendous impact, scattering debris over a ten-acre tract. 
"One big fireball and that was it," said a witness to the crash. 
The bodies of all the victims were recovered, and Orrell said all were military personnel. The co-pilot was identified as Capt. Lee Eg­gericks, 27, of Orchard Lake, Mich. 
Orrell said the jet, based at Seymour Johnson Air Base in Goldsboro, N.C., was on a training mission and was en route to Nellis Air Force Base in Nevada. The E0135, described as a "modified 707," had stopped in Albuquerque to refuel, he said. 
A spokesman at Seymour John­son said the plane frequently was used by high ranking military personnel and American and for­eign dignitaries. He said former Secretary of State Henry Kissinger was among those who had used the craft. 


THE LIBRARY 
LIQUOR STORE SPECIALS 
Qt. Vodka $3.99 5th Gin $3.79 5th Ruinite lambrusco $1.97 
6pk lite $1.69 12pk Old Style $2.99 12pk Fall City $2.39 Assorted Case Beer $3.99 
ALL BEER SPECIALS ARE COLD 
Check With Us On Special Party Prices We Accept and Cash Any Student Checks Cold Beer Specials Extra Seruice 
IT~S SIMPLE: THE LIBRARY WANTS ~TO BE YOUR LIQUOR STORE ~ 
------~----------------------­



Gay guide provides information, advice 
by Kathleen Connelly 

The Gay Community at Notre Dame (GCND) has published a collection of facts and information directed for gay individuals at Notre Dame. 
The aim of the guide, as stated by the GCND, is to provide a simple, concise information packet in an easily accessible location. The guides are available at Pan­dora's for $1. 
The tabie of contents for the guide lists sections on health and counseling, the law in Indiana, a bibliography, and a listing of national and local gay rights orga­nizations including Gay Rights Alumni of Notre Dame. 
The spokesman for the group stressed the fact that the group's name is the Gay Community at Notre Dame, as opposed to the Gay Communtiy of Notre Dame. The wording of the latter is reserved for officially recognized Notre Dame organizations. The University tur­ned down a request for official recognization from the group last year. The University has not offered. nor has it been asked for, support of any kind. 
The GCND representative said that the purpose of the organiza­tion is best stated in the guide: "The goal of the Gay Community at Notre Dame is to create an environ­ment in which homosexuals can 
Tax laws always changing 
by Matt Kane 

"If I was to take a month-long vacation and, afterwards, did not review the changes in the tax laws, I would be a danger to my clients." Frank Berall remarked yesterday. 
Berall is co-chairman of the Notre Dame Estate Planning Insti­tution which educates lawyers, accountants, band officers, and insurance executives on the com­plex and rapidly changing inheri­tance and gift tax laws. 
Since its inception three years ago the institute has been nationally prominant among tax experts. It also publishes a book of articles written by its speakers on the subjects of their talks. 
According to Berall, who along with Prof. Regis Campfield co-chairmans the institute, the pur­pose of the institute is threefold. 
"The institute provides a pro­gram which teaches techniques in dealingwith new laws and regula­tions,'' Berall said ''Second, it informs its members on the forth­
coming tax revisions. Finally, its
speakers give insights on 
~?{:!.'·~w~~;all 
continued. "is an 

~~~~:ti~~a~i~~~~· y~~:s:krl~~ ::~ 
rusty. If not used or updated by 
new proceedures a lawyer, like any 
professional, willbecomeobsolete." 
Constant changes in the tax laws because of court rulings, reinter­pretation and policy changes by the IRS, and tax law revision in Congress has made tax law the 
fastest  changing  field  of  study,  
even  faster  than  the  sciences,  
according to Berall.  

"It's our job, those who have made special study of estate tax law or have help shaped the present laws in Congress to impart this information to our fellow professionals," said Berall, who is a Regent of the American College Probate Council and chairman of 
its estate and gift tax committee. He has also worked voluntarily in Congress on tax revision. 
This year' sconference has special importance, remarked Berall, be­cause of President Ford's signing of the Tax Reform Act of 1976 last October. The act "changed the ground rules" lawyers have been working under, forcing them to study the new law "intensely." The act was the greatest revision for estate and gift tax law since the tax was first proposed in 1916. 
lead lives free from the hostility, fear, and repression created by the ignorance of other people." 
The spokesman said that igno­rance and fear are major stumbling blocks to the understanding and acceptance of gays. 
The GCND has weekly meetings off campus. The format of the meetings includes discussion of special problems and guest speak­ers. Because of the intellectual level of the group many towns­

peop 1 e have become involved with IFiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~l the organization. The GCND offers 
THE SENIOR BAR
"a place to learn acceptance of yourself because visiting the bars is a treacherous way to become accustomed to gay life because there's more to it than that." 
The second section of the booklet gives the philosophy of the GCND. The GCND is not a counseling group, but rather seeks to provide support and encouragement for members. Speakers are available to classes and organizations ''to help others learn something about the human condition. None of us promise all the answers, we are simply willing to share our experi­ences and our concern with those who may need them." 
To contact the GCND about obtaining speakers or for general information, write Box 206, Notre Dame, or call 8870 Friday or Saturday 10-12 p.m. The number listed in yesterday's paper under the Gay Liberation Club is a fake. 
Berall is leery of the term "reform" when used in tax legis­lation, as well as the word "loop­
hole".  
"I  prefer  to  use  the  word  
'revision' instead, " he said.  "The  
word  'reform'  in  common  usage  

means an improvement in the law, while those opposed to the law see it as an attempt to make it worse." 
" 'Loophole,' " Berall believes, "is a word which means an inadvertant error in the law that gives an individual or group unin­tended benefits." 
The tax laws have become so complicated and changeable that Berall thinks soon the law profes­sion will have to certify tax special­ists in much the same way the medical profession certifies spe­cialists. 
"We live in complex society," Berall noted "and although we would prefer a simple tax code we still have to make sure the law is equitable. So both these ideals run head on into each other, usually resulting in neither being re­

t!al~iz~e:;!d~·~":..___-=-~:----....,.--.!:===========::;:=============================:!
T

he Civil Engineer Corps. Because VQU can build a career faster, building for the Navy. 
Whatever field ofengi rwt>ri ng or an:hilt>t'ltll'e .l·<nt're nm1· stud.1·in1-f. .vou'll soon bP n•ady f(H· a responsihlt· position. There'sorw plm·l' \·ou'n•likt·h· to find it f~tster than -'·our das,.;matt•:.;: in the Navy's Civil Engineer< 'orp,.:. 
You'll join a seled tl•am of professionals that plan. desig·n. 


construct. and maintain hou,.;ing cumplexes. road,;. <lirfi<>lds. waterfront facilitil's, <tnd lftilitivs \\'orldwidl' --not to nwntion de,.;alinatipn}Jiant,.; and .. undersea struct 11n•,.; For a ( 'EI' officer. it's'a hig opportunitv ..'lll go plan•s. and gf't place:<. 'l<lgain tlwt•xpt•rit•nt'l•that 

Friday, September 16, 1977 the observer 
5 

SATURDAY GAMETIME! 1-6pm 
120Z. B_EERS 3SC 
BLOODY MARYS 
soc 
saturday night ARE YOU READY? 
8-10pm 
120Z. BEERS 3Sc 9 -11pm victory shots soc 
ANISETIE GIMLETS SCHNAPPS TEQUILA 

Bringing in a supersonic jet on a 10,000 ft. cement runway is tough enough. But landing one on a 500ft. piece of a carrier deck, moving at 25 knots, is even tougher. Only a few men are good enough to do it. And they're all Navy trained. How can you become a member of the Naval Air team? One way is to join while you're still in college. One of the advantages of being part of the Aviation Reserve Officer Candidate (AVROC) Program is that it lets you continue working toward your degree. 
Getting your Navy Wings isn't easy. The training is tough. The least that will be expected of you is the best that other pilots can do. Their limits are your starting blocks, their expertise your primer. But if you succeed, your future is assured whether you remain in the Navy or not, 
ANavy Officer Representative will be In South Ben on Septbemer 20, 21, and 22. To obtain further information or to schedule an. informal interview, call collect 317-269-6197 

can hPip f'ulfill the requirements fin· n•g"i.~t r;tl ion as a Profession a I Engi net>r. 
lf'1·ou'n· now in 1·our SPnior vear. you'r-e.eligible to ap1;ly. And if~·ilu're working-toward .vour Engineer-in­'II·aining certificate. all the better. 
A Navy Officer Representative will be in South Bend on Sept. 20,21, and 22. To obtain further information or to schedule an informal interview call collect 
317-269-6197 ""'m'i''' 
It's your life. Lead it. ff~ Be a Naval Officer. ~~£?· 


. .....·.·.·. ·.·.·.',· ..... . "1' ' . ' 


...&l___ _..thu.e¥..-...!o~biiDII!s~e~rvJ[.Jeii(JrL--_____ '=!:.i~y, -~ptember 16,_1977 
Center offers 'experiential/earning' in society 
by Pat Dennody 

"The main thrust of the Center for Experiential Learning," accord­ing to Fr. Don McNeill, director of :he program, "is to help students, 'acuity, administration and alumni 
n their quest for social justice." Developed during the summer of 1977, the Center offers the ND­SMC community an opportunity to participate in learning activities "outside the regular pattern of experience." 
Largely a student initiated or­ganization the Center for Experi­entia) Learning is directly related to the University Center for Pastoral and Social Ministry. The latter program is under the direction of vtsgr. John Egan and deals pri­marily with affairs of student life. 
Therefore, the Center for Experi­entiat Learning will be the student link with the Center for Pastoral and Social Ministry. 
In outlining the goals of the Center, McNeill pointed out that it was formed to "pull together" the experiential learning programs which already existed at the Uni­versity. He cited the Latin Amer­ican Program of Experientrial Learning and the CILA Abroad Program as forerunners of the Center. 
The biggest turning point for the program was, according to Me-Neill, the Urban Plunge Expedition in Jan. 1977. He said the response to this one-credit hour program which was offered to ND students in 40 United States cities was "overwhelming." There were 130 

······························~ ~
. 
~ ~M1§fi~y WEST ~ ~ 
: offices on ground floor Badin : jlow student operated from 6:30pm to midnighC : study and social space auailable : • Sundav through Thursday •
, •........•.~ ....~ .............. • 
SMC SOCIAL COMMISSION presents 
SECOND CITY 
in an all new comedy revue Sat., Sept. 17 8:00p.m. 
O'Laughlin Auditorium, SMC 
STUDENTS $2.00 GENERAL ADMISSION $3.00 
Tickets available at SMC Programming Office 


Friday, Sept. 16 
2:00 -midnight 
SMC ·CLUBHOUSE BEER BRATWURST 

·students who participated in the Urban Plunge last year compared to only 20 students when this program began in 1975. This increase in number and also the extremely favorable reaction to the 1977 Expedition were what spark. ed the development of the Center for Experiential Learning. 
"There are four main concen­trations of the Center," explained McNeill. The "Horizons for Jus­tice which includes the Neighbor­hood Roots Tour and the Urban Plunge offers brief but structural experiential learning opportunities. 
The "Curriculum Design in Ex­periential learning opportunities. The :•curriculum Design in Ex­
· periential Learning'' handles aca­demic courses related to field­based learning. There is also a concentration in the "Faculty Com­mittment to Justice Education," and a "Research and Evaluation" division of the Center. This part of the Experiential Learning Program will continuously attempt to im­prove the activities offered by the Center. 

Each function of the Center for 
. Experiential Learning is geared not only to allow participants to en­counter different aspects of society, but also to raise questions on issues of social justice. McNeill, along with Mary Ann Roemer, the Cen­ter's program director, wants stu­dents to "get to know how it feels--to learn about poverty, op­pression, and social injustice." 
McNeill emphasized that work­ing in collaboration with other groups in the field is important to the workings of the Center. He also said that it is essential that the 
value  of  classroom  learning  ex­ 
perience  not  be  overlooked.  
"Neither  can  exist  without  the  

other, nor can the Center exist. without the students," McNeill concluded. 
Anyone wishing to get involved in the Center for Experiential Learning should visit Room 1110-B in the Memorial Library or call 283-2788. 

Deane joins English Dept. 
by Mike Kenahan Staff Reporter 
The Department of English has a new faculty member this fall. He is Seamus Deane, who is on loan from University College in Dublin, Ire­land. 
According to the English Depart­ment course description booklet, Deane is "a poet, literary theorist, and a scholar of 18th and 19th Century British literature as well as Irish literature. Deane will only be staying at Notre Dame for one semester. He will be teaching next spring at the University of Cali­fornia at Berkley. 
When asked to compare the standard type of university in Ireland to typical American univer­sity, Deane had nothing but praise for higher education in the U.S. "The American university is a more sensibly and rationally ar­ranged institution than in Ireland. I prefer the American university system to the Irish -European system," he emphasized. 
In comparing the students' aca­demic and social lives in the two countries, Deane explained, "the work load is heavier and the eagerness to work is more evident here than at home." He also finds that, "the students' lives in Ameri­ca are more stimulating than in Ireland -especially at night.'' 
Deane, who is 37 and has a wife and four children, was born in Northern Ireland. He first atended the University of Belfast, then took 
fiY~~~~~~,.,~~~~._..~,_.~,..~~~WI"'-~~' his doctorate, a Fulbright and a 
Woodrow Wilson, from Cam­bridge, in England. From England he traveled to Reed College in Oregon for one year, and then went 
on to Berkley. Deane ended up at Universtiy College in Dublin, but not before what he describes as, 
:~~~=so:n~w~h:i~~~ti~oe~a:;~~:.~he 
Deane attributed his presence at Notre Dame mostly to the work of Sean Golden, one of his present 
associates in the English Depart­
ment and a fellow countryman. Deane professed that Golden ''highly recommended me to the 
department." Golden, accordin_g ' f 
CateUo to present l with special guest 
faculty recital 
Darlene Catello, organist, will present a faculty recital of French and German Baroque Music at 4 
p.m. Sunday in Notre Dame's Crawley Hall. Sponsored by the Department of Music, the recital will be repeated at 4 p.m. Monday and both performances are open to the public without charge. A member of the piano faculty 
and a student of Notre Dame's Sue Seidermartin, Catello received her 
to Deane, "is very anxious to make Irish studies an integral part of the English departmental curriculum.'' 
Deanne currently is teaching two courses in the English Department: 
"20th Century Irish Literature" and "Utilitarianism and Roman­ticism." Deane believes that the study of Irish literature is ''useful not only for ascetic or political reasons, but in order to recognize the difference between a colonial­
ized mentality and the mentality of the great free nation-states." He stressed that, it is a political ­literary mi x, not concerned with just purely ascetic contemplation. 
Besides the two courses he teaches, Deane is in the process of working on two pet projects. He is just now completing a book on what he says, "will deal with the French Enlightenment and its influence on England." The book will cover the area from the outbreak of the which he is still researching, will be what he calls, "a peculiar kind of poem. It will be a long, narrative poem dealing with the historical crises in Irish history.'' 
French Revolution in 1789 to  the  
first English Reform Bill.  
Deane's other major work,  for  

From Oct. 11-13 Deane will be giving a series of lectures on the literary critics Lionel Trilling, George Lucaks and Royland Barth. The lectures will be held in the Rare Book Room of the Memorial Library. 
Deane, a former professional soccer player, who will be driving out to California with his family in December, is looking forward to his first real "Irish" football game. He is especially interested in seeing the USC game. 
"I'd like to see Southern Cal. but I don't know. I'll have to, I suppose, shoot somebody to get a ticket," he added with a smile. 

Dinner to honor Hesburgh 's 25 years 
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, Commission on an All-Volunteer president of Notre Dame, will be Armed Force, The U.S. Commis­honored for 25 years of public sion on Civil Rights, and the service at a dinner October 3 in President's Clemency 
Board. 

Notre Dame's president is current­ator and Mrs. Hubert Humphrey. 
Washington D.C., hosted by Sen­ly chairman of theOverseas De­velopment Council, a Washington
Among the 400 invitees are persons who served with Father 
based, private organization con­Hesburgh on government boards 
cerned with the issues of inter­national development.

and committees, including five which required presidential ap­
Congressman John Brademas, majority whip in the House of

pointment: the national science Representitives, will be toastmas­
board, the president' General Ad­ter for the dinner, scheduled for the 
visory Committee on Foreign As­Mayflower Hotel. 
sistance Programs, The President's 
r--KE----N---N---y----,
tt ft 
it 't
LOGGLNS

' ' 
' 
1 Steven Bishop 
' s d Se 
: ' un ay' pt• 18' 197 7 tt 
i 
PURDUE UNIVERSITY t 
t ' 
t 
, ' 
t 
i 
' 
Elliott Hall of Music t Tickets: $5.50 i 't
$4 C Q
•.) t
$3.50 t 

masters degree in music at Notre Dame last year. She also serves as
HOTDOGS SODA t t 
an organist at the Westminster : sold thru Hall of Music Box Office tRain Date: Sat, Sept. 17 10-5 Presbyterian Church in South 
Bend. tPurdue University W. Lafeyette, Ind. 47907: WATCH THE GAME WITH US Catello will play the Holtkamp organ in room 204. 
l-----~~2~~~~----~ 
' ....... . 

• .. .. .... .. • .. • . • • .. •> ; 
. . . .. . . ~
~~~~-~~~--~~~~~................ .
_·__. -~~ ····....:······ .........___ 
Control from the Ranks 
Three seemingly-unrelated issues have been raised on campus recently: amend­ments to the judicial process, litter and noise in the bar area, and food fights. But there is an important issue common to all three: student responsibility. 
The responsibility of students in judging their peers has been much debated in the controversy over eliminating students from the judicial process. And yet the lack of responsibility of student witnesses was probably a key factor in the trustees' proposal to eliminate the Judicial Board option as well. 
In the recent AI Hunter case, two students accused Hunter of breaking parietals. They gave their testimony to the dean of students. On the basis of that testimony Dean Roemer brought charges against Hunter, who chose the J-Board option. At that point, the student witnesses backed down and sought the protection of Fr. Hesburgh. He, for no known reason, permitted them to submit their testimony to the J-Board via anony­mous affidavits. The J-Board indicated that the physical absence of the witnesses prevented them from fairly evaluating their testimony and acquitted Hunter on that basis. 
Roemer then found himself in the frustrating position of a prosecutor who has brought charges against a person on the basis of witnesses' testimony, only to have his witnesses back out as the case goes to court. 
The chairman of the Judicial Board that acquitted Hunter, Prof. John Lucey, condemned both the witnesses for shirking the responsibility of following through on. their charges, and Hesburgh for allowing them to escape the responsibility they accepted when they levelled their accusa­tions in the first place. 
In a parietals case, this problem may not seem so serious. If a guilty person were acquitted under such circumstances, the community would suffer no great harm. But what if the charge were assault? or vandalism? or drug-pushing? When these kinds of offenders are allowed to continue circulating within the University, there could indeed be grave harm to members of the community and Atr their property. 
The issue at hand here is the ability of students to take responsibility for regulat­ing their community. This means living according to the established rules -or trying to change them through established channels -and expecting others to do likewise. 
This responsibility extends outside the University to embrace all the communities of which we are a part. It is not enough, for example, to refrain from littering and making noise in a residential area. Students must use their influence to prevent others from doing so too. This responsibility means telling the host of a party that the decibel level on his stereo is probably disturbing his neighbors and pointing out trash cans to other partiers and bar patrons. 
Similarly, it is not enough to not throw food in a food fight. Perhaps if students indicated their disapproval of these dis­plays by helping to pin-point offenders ­and testifying against them if necessary ­the point could finally be driven home. · 
Ifstudents are irked by the abundance of rules regulating University life, they must show that the peer group is largely capable of enforcing acceptable modes of conduct. The student body must win the respect of the rest of the community as a self-reg­ulatory body. As things stand now, most offenses against the interests of the community are expected to be dealt with by the dean of students Office. Why must this discipline be imposed with thrests of work projects and suspension, when the most powerful deteiTent of all -peer censure is in the hands of the students? 
This is not to suggest that students resort to key-hole peeping and note-taking to catch all possible offenders. We are only saying that until students prove themselves able to regulate their lives by the established rules on more elementary levels, their pretensions to responsibility on the level of a University judicial proceeding will ring rather hollow. 
P.O.BoxQ~~ 
Sorin J-board 
Dear Editor: 
I find it necessary to correct a statement that appeared in last Thursday's Observer. The article I am referring to regarded the meeting of the hall Judicial Board chairmen Wednesday night. One section stated that the Sorin Hall J-board heard no cases last year because our rector failed to recog­nize us. As present chairman of the Sorin Hall J-board, I can assure you that this is an incorrect statement and promoted unjust criticism of our former rector, Fr. Green. 
What I did say at the meeting was that the Sorin J-board did not hear many cases because the hall staff preferred to consider the more serious offenses themselves. This statement did not mean to imply that our hall J-board was not functional or that the hall staff unfairly handled these affairs. At the present time, the J-board Manual says that "the hall judicial boards do not have jurisdiction in matters that concern University rules or regulations." Therefore, even if I or the hall staff felt the J-board was capable of handling some slightly more serious matters with integrity, the decision of the hall staff to bypass the J -board in those cases was justifiable. 
Tim Sullivan 
No disgrace 

Dear Editor: 
There has been much talk about the recent food fight held in both dining halls on how demoralizing and humiliating the students' de­monstration of liveliness was at Saturday's evening meal. Well, I find this argument hard to believe, for as the combat was in progress, I was able to observe a few dining hall employees tossing food from abandoned trays. One need only look around to see the smiling faces of dining hall workers as they watched with amusement. 
I am not a person who agrees with exhibitions such as food fights, for there is enough waste­fulness already. But I also feel that embarrassment of the workers was a poor excuse for the University's displeasure of the high-spirited event. If the workers are going to show such fascination, then the students should not be accused of disgracing them. 
Bob Griffin 
DOONESBURY 

Rustic decor in local bars 
Dear Editor: 
Despite the recent regularity of police harassment at the local bars, we find the recent decline in student patronage not too surpris­ing. Everybody must enjoy the "early American garbage pit and rustic railroad tie" decor of Nickies and The Library respectively. After all, none of us has experienc­ed walking into a nice bar or disco back horne. Maybe people might want a decent place to "listen to disco and bump" for a change instead of wasting away each own's (sic) liver night after night. 
Brady Burton 
Cris de Ia Torre 
%The Observer ~ 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary'., 

The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters are the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and letters are encouraged to promote the free expression of varying opinions on campus. 
EDITORIAL BOARD 
Marti Hogan Editor-in-Chief Martha Fanning Managing Editor Bob Brink Asst. Managing Ed. Kathy Mills Executive Editor Maureen Flynn Editorial Editor Barb Breitenstein Exec. News Editor jean Powlev St. Mary's Editor Katie Kerwin News Editor Barb Langhenry News Editor Paul Stevenson Sports Editor Pat Cole Special Projects Ed. David O'Keefe Features Editor 
Friday, September 16, 1977 


To be or not to be... 

__.iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiigregory hayes 
"Human rights are at the heart of humanity and human freedom is the very fundamental condition for human rights." Rev. Theodore Hesburgh C.S.C. Let us imagine Fr. Hesburgh attending a seminar in Moscow. 
Fr. H.: I'd like to address this seminar on "Mind control and oppression" with what I call the six point plan and how it can be applied to your own country. To begin let us divide your country into two quads, north and south. Russia: Bah! east and Vest, east and vest! Vhy not east and vest? Fr. H.: In the past, north and south have proved quite successful for the naming of quads. It's simple, easy to remember, traditional and very Notre Dame. Russia: Ah .. .I Zee. Fr. H.: Nerl separate the males and females by their sex and find their ratio. Russia: Vhat? Vhat's dis ray she o? Fr. H.: Anywhere over 3 to 1 is acceptable. The higher the better. Now burn any and all coed housing facilities that might exist and construct cinder block dormitories in their place. Russia: Vhy burn da buildinks? Fr. H.: It's sort of a homogenizing technique. It sanctifies the facility by destroying any sin that once existed inside. Russia: Ah ... now vhat about dees tormidories? Fr. H.: That's dormitories. Institute a system of parietals which limits the visitation of any foreign sexes. Russia: Bah! Russian vinters get cold, heh heh... Fr. H.: Sorry but there are other methods of keeping varm, er... warm. You can really appreciate parietals late at night when some of the fellas walk around in their undervare ... er ... wear. In this way, no one ever gets embarrassed. How ideall Russis: Honest Injun? Fr. H.: Honest Injun. Russia: Vondervar! Now vhat about vodka? Fr. H.: Merely duck the issue, citing that it's illegal. Russia: Vhat about veed? Fr. H.: Could you mean marijuana, the demon weed which is destroying the minds of our teenagers today? Russia: Yah, Yah dats it, dope! Fr. H.: Sorry, no go. Furthermore you should take away any voice the peons might have in their own judicial process. After all they can't possibly know what's in our ... er...their own best interests. Throw in a washing machine for every thousand people or so. 
Finally sprinkle ''liberally'' with a 2.5 percent black population, and there you have it, Utopia. Russia: Hrnrnrn.;.but vhat about vhen dey complaink? Fr. H.: Ah, that's an easy one: make them cheerleaders. Russia: Very inter e sting, but true. 
The time has come for our president to be just that, president. What the students need is not a worldwide crusader for human rights but rather a local ambassador to work with ·the students to change the archaic laws on alcohol and marijuana which presently 
·handcuff Notre Dame. 
0~~~~~ 
fiJ'RAil A MINUTe, IT /UA511 JOllY! HIS SliCK&-SIMPLE OVER­'TIIR'I 0'1131?J)f?BV SIGHT. SHE HER ACCfJUNTBY SINCE 700K. $4~ (}(X)? CAR£ OF n;
" 


by Garry Trudeau 
~~ 
JOOY, 
YES, AND
{)(}fS 1!-le 
He'S PR.Ot//)
PRESIOENT 
OF HER.
KNW YET? 




!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~
P 0 BoX Q 
ex C ange

S h
at N0? 

Dear Editor: 
Has Notre Dame changed its 
policy concerning sex? 
In my four years here, the University has kept its students ""ell aware of the regulations regarding sex. Disciplinary boards have suspended students from the University for blatant parietal vio­lations. 
But now a poster proclaiming "make love not garbage" has been posted in the south dining hall by University Food Services. 
This poster encourages violation of the University rule that states " ... Any intimacy and sexual ex­pression that do not coincide with that value (of "reverence for the person") can become shallow and exploitative. Because a genuine and complete expression of love through sex requires a commitment to a total living and sharing together of two persons in mar­riage, the University believes that sexual union should occur only in marriage." 
I am confused by the apparem contradiction between this statment in duLac and the poster. How are we, as morally conscious students, to act in view of this inconsistency? 
I realize the dining hall is truly 
concerned about garbage, but is 
the staff suggesting free love as an 
alternative to wasting food? Are 
we to believe in free love or in 
"reverence for the person?" 
I wonder if the dining hall is 
stating its own view on the sexual­
ity rule or if the University, 
~pe_aki~g through the dining hall, is 
mdtcatmg an upcoming change in 
the rules. 
I suggest the University take.. note of this poster and either revise du Lac or suspend the dining hall staff for its action, which, accord­ing to du Lac, is obviously , "inconsistent with the ideals of this (voluntary) community." 
Joan Fremeau 

Food waste all year long 
Dear Editor: 
Every year. students react to the post-game food fights with disdain and seeming concern over the waste and humiliation created by them. Methods of punishment are concocted to "single out" the guilty individuals and deal with them appropriately. 
I hasten to point out that if we were to punish all those who wasted food during the course of the academic year. 8000 students would be "detained," "fined," and .put on "disciplinary proba­tion" more than a few times per year. Literally tons of food are squandered by the overfastidious 
•
.. 
the student's "leftovers" every
day should be of much greater 
concern than the occ~sional food 
wars creatttd by exctted college 
students. After all: boys will be 
boys and s~udents wtll be students. 
Emphasts and a genuine concern 
then, should be placed on our daily 
waste rather than the infrequent 
horseplay of an aroused student 
body. 
Richard J. Gregoire 
Long-distance thank you 
Dear Editor: 
When I left Notre Dame I was fairly certain that I knew how, and conversely, how not to have an impact on the administrative deci­sions which issue forth from under the Golden Dome. An Alumnus · ~as few optiot;ts and--not surpris­tngly--the options increase both q~antitatively. and qualitatively in dtrect proportion to one's willing­ness to "invest in the future of Notre Dame." A recently-grad­uated Domer who is neither well-­placed nor well-heeled has few options with which to influence policy, indeed, not the least of which is the privilege of forwarding carefully drafted editorial com­ments to The Observer (the Notre Dame student body's answer to R_upert Murdoch's publishing em­
ptre). 
However, as an ex-student "leader", I had made a promise never to avail myself of this particular option (it being a recur­rent neurosis among student lead­ers to take the press--or lack of same--which they receive as un­dergraduates ... personally). With this opinion I break that personal pledge for the second time in as many years, proving that it is impos~ible to teach an old poohbah new tricks. I am consistent only in that I do so in behalf of the same individual--Ft. James T. Burt­chaell, the recently-resigned Pro­vost of the University of Notre Dame. 
I wrote last year to defend this remarkable man while critiquing the anachronistic office he then held. My contention was then and 1 is now that Fr. Burtchaell is one of 
e 
CD :I: 
c 
ftS 
E 
0
a: 

du Lac's natural resources. A 
natural resource which ought not be squandered--to borrow Jimmy Breslin's characterization of bur­
eaucratic intrigue--on the place­ment of "mirrors" and the issu­ance of "blue smoke". Fr. Burtchaell should, instead, be giv­en a mandate to employ hi& extraordinary administrative and pedagogic talents to cause Fr. Hesburgh's vision for Notre Dame to become a reality--a Notre Dame whose academic achievements are given the same national recognition currently afforded her athletic teams.. 
If Fr. Burtchaell's resignation is the circuitous means by which the administration hopes to rid them­selves of an outmoded bureaucratic sluice gate then someone deserves 
plaudits for their job well done. 
Certainly,  no  successor  to  Fr.  
Burtchaell  can  possess  hands  so  
skilled  as  his  were  at  juggling  

considerable numbers of admini­strative "bowling pins" at one time. By attrition, then, the scope of the Provost's responsibilities will be narrowed--which is the only good news to come out of Fr: Burtchaell's resignation. 
l would ask Fr. Burtchaell to reconsider his decision but I sus­pect it is already too late; he is probably enjoying his return to an unfettered academic existence far too thoroughly to ever wish to take on the headaches of the provost's office again. 
At this point, I would like to address my remarks to Fr. Burt­chaell: 
Thank you for the strength of your convictions and the depth of 
your Faith; for your skillfully woven r-==----~-------_;_----------------.
de~enses and the challenge of your articulate rebuttals; but most of all, thank you for enabling Fr. Res­burgh to absent himself from Notre Dame to bring her message to the world. 
The two of you have been a team· no thoughtful Notre Dame student or alumnus will ever forget. 
Ed Byrne, '76 
Editor's Note: Ed Byrne was Student Body President during the 
---~~------------~------­

~seriously, foI ks .!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~ 
A Monument to Martha 

iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii art buc h waI d 
Washington--A newspaper in Pine 
Bluff, Ark., wants to build a 
monument to Martha Mitchell. I 
hadn't planned to contribute until 
President Nixon, in his final inter­
view with David Frost, practically 
blamed Martha for Watergate. If 
she was to blame for it, then I think 
I will send in my check. Any 
w?man responsible for getting 
Ntxon out of office deserves the 
best statue money can buy. The question is what kind of monument should it be? I have a 
few ideas. 
We could get the same sculptor 
who did the marines raising the 
Flag on Iwo Jima. But instead of 
marines we could have the five 
original Cuban burglars plus G. 
Gordon Liddy and Howard Hunt 
scrambling up the side of the 
Waterg~te building holding an 
electromc bug outstretched in their 
hands. 
Another idea would be to portray Martha Mitchell as the Statue of Liberty, raising the light of truth in her right hand while she's standing with one foot on a dead GOP elephant. 
Some people have suggested that Martha appear as Joan of Arc tied to a stake, and at her feet would be hundreds of yards of sound tape about to be sent up in 
flames. Still another idea would have Nixon sitting in a chair like Rodin's "Thinker" brooding, while stand ing right behind him would be Martha whispering in his ear. The legend on the Statue would read 
"If you don't tell them, I will." ' T~e obvious type of statue, too obvtous to do her justice, would show Martha in marble holding a telephone and saying, "I know it's three o'clock in the morning but I 
have to speak to Helen Thomas." A sculptor friend of mine thinks the monument should be a replica 
of "Dante's Inferno" with all the characters of Watergate crawling over each other's backs, biting each other, scratching someone else's eyes out, holding on to a~other person's leg, pushing a friend down, and choking each other to escape the heat coming 
from a flame at the bottom of the 
statue. I pointed out that this 
would be rather expensive to do 
particularly with the price of gas.' 
But he insisted the citizens of Pine 
Bluff would pay for it as tourists 
would come from all over just to see 
the work of art. 
A more simple suggestion for a memorial was made by an acquain­tance who thought they should move the motel room from Newport Beach, Calif., where Martha was locked up so she wouldn't talk right after John Mitchell wa~ informed of Watergate. The room would be set up in the Pine Bluff square and kept exactly as it had been when Martha tried to make her escape. People would visit it for $1. 
Another idea for a monument would show Nixon sitting at his Oval Office desk with no clothes on and standing in front of him on the pedestal is Martha, fully clothed, saying, "Now which one of us is crazy?" 
"Keep it simple," a friend ofthe Fine Arts committee warned me. "Put Martha on a horse with a sword in her hand chopping off the heads of five or six men represent­ing the Committee to Re-Elect the President.'' 
A Frenchman suggested a statue of Martha knitting near a guillotine while the blade was about to fall on 
Ric~ard Nixon's neck. 
Someone else thought' the memorial should be a fountain with Martha holding the spout and water dropping out every 10 seconds falling on Nixon's presi­dential shield. 
One final suggestion might be a duplication of the "Spirit of '76" with a wounded Haldeman playing the fife, Nixon on the large drum and little John Dean playing the small drum next to him. Martha would be carrying the American Flag in the background. 
Whatever monument they come up with is fine with me. If Nixon s~ys Martha Mitchell was respon­
stble for Watergate I'll take his word for it. After all he's never lied to us before. 

*Observer 
Editorials 
I975-76 academic year. He Is'------------------------=~ currently working as a CILA volun­teer In South America. 
by Pat Byrnes 
~ 




. . . 

Observer 
..·,. 
Supplement 

The distribution of T.he .Observer at lunch has become a tradition at Notre Dame and St. Mary's. Each .issue is the result of a great deal of hard work and determination b·y numerous students from both campus~s. In order to fully understand the workings·of this campus daily, we present th1s supp~ement on ho~ The Observer operates. The· majority of t~e articles. were wntten by t~e1r respective editors .. However; this supplement. IS meant to 1~lus~rate the ded1catJon, not of the 12 editors whose names appear da1ly on the ed1tonai masthead, but of the many volunteers, who without recognition, make the production of The Observer possible. 
The foundation of a paper 
News is the ·b·asis: from · which .. a reporter, correctmg 1t for gramm3:r, style 
newspaper is constr~ct~d. Most :of the · and content. The edited story ts then campus articles· in The Obsen:er ,yo·u flip · logged with the Compugraphic typists who 
through at lunchtime ·originated. with an put it on film for the layout staff to set on incident, a decision,· an· annotinc~inent, or.· the. dummy pages. an unanswered· qiiestiori that·. w~·s· ·~e.v~ . If the reporter is unable to contact all the eloped by research and· i~terv'ie.~ into. a. sQurces or for some other reason cannot 
news story. · · :-· . complete story, it is put on hoi? until ~he 
The researching,. writing· .ahd ~diting .· next· issue. Late breaking stones, whtch process can take a few hour.s. o~· s~veral · must run in the next day's paper, must be weeks and involves numerous 'people in the turned in by 2:30 a.m. news department ·.before !ln ·artir:;l.e · is ; The riews editor returns around mid­turned over to the produs;:tion staff to be set night to check late AP, write news briefs in type,. placed on. a page .·and .giyen a. and confer with the night editorabout story headline and picture: · . · . priorities and special handling of stories. 
. . . . 
The Jiews.s~ry_ News Staff 

The story idea is the starting point fo~ all ·The Observer news reporting staff consists Observer news articles. Eaclr day, the of three [evels: writers, staff reporters and 
news . editors meet at 11 a.m. ·in· The senior staff reporters. Reporters begin as 
Observer office to compUe a list of these writers and are promoted on the basis of ideas. Campus events and. issues, ptess 
frequency and quality of work. 

releases,· follow-ups on stori.es in previous A writer does a story as often as issues, hold-overs and press s~rvice art-. possible. Writers are membe~s of the ides all appear on the st~ry. idea sheet, University community who are mterested which is given to the day edito~. in· contributing to the paper, and do not necessarily have prior writing experience. The copy editor works with a writer when 

·the first few stories are brought in. When a writer has shown ability in newswriting and interest in continuing to work for the . paper, the editor may recommend promo­
tion to staff reporter. 

A staff reporter is required to write three 
times per month and to attend monthly 
news staff meetings. They are also . expected to write more important stories and receive a "staff reporter" by-line. 
Senior staff reporters are the most 
experienced and competent. on the ~e­
porting staff. They are requtred to ~nte 
once per week, attend weekly meetmgs, 
contribute story ideas and cover the most 
important and in-depth stories. They 
receive a salary of $5 per month. 

· At the head of the news reporting staff 
are the editors: the copy editor, Jean 
Fremeau· the news editors, Katie Kerwin Marti Hogan, editor-in-chief, appears· at and Barb Langhenry; and the executive the office as regularly as the d~y'.s issue. news editor, Barbara Breitenstein. 
The copy editor is in ::barge of the 
Stories are assigned to reporters by the copyreading staff. She assigns copyreaders day editor beginning· around ,12:30 p.m. for every issue of the paper, checks the Reporters either c.ome up to The Observer paper daily for copyreading errors and office to choose· a story or are contacted on assists news reporters.the phone by the day editor: Both the day The executive news editor and two news editors and news editors as11ist report.ers editors handle the general newsgathering, with sources, story angles and suggested priority-setting, AP selection and consulta­questions. tion with night editors. Other news-related 
The day editor is also responsible for duties are divided among the three and the taking down any new ~tory ideas, on­entire department is supervised by the 
campus today additions and an;'lounce­executive news editor. 
ments which are called in durtng the Barb JLanghenry oversees the progress of afternoon. The St. Mary's editor calls in the news reporting staff, recording the any stories which she has assigned for that number and subject of stories written byday and the day editor notes these as well. 
each reporter, and works closelY_ witht the Before leaving in late afternoon, the day copy editor and the executuve edttor on the editor types the story sheet, a list of stories 
new reporter training program. expected to be turned in tha~ night for ~he 
Katie Kerwin is in charge of the dayfollowing day's paper. A hst of stones editor staff, assigning day editors for every assigned for later issues is also compiled issue of the paper and coordinating their by the day editor. . 
work. She also is responsible for news The Associated Press (AP) wtre copy services, press releases, on-campus todaywhich has been piling up since morning is materials and acts as a liason with the 
sorted by a news editor in early evening. 
production department. 

Important AP stories are added to the story Barbara Breitenstein, as executive sheet. The news editor ranks all stories in editor, coordinates the functioning of the 
order of importance to indicated which entire department. Besides supervision of articles, by reason of their campus or news editors, copy editor and news national impact, merit front-page place­reporting staff, she follows developing ment in the newspaper. The priorities stories maintains a beat system and works attached to stories also assist the night closely' with the executive edi~or on staff.in deciding the placement of stories in recruiting new reporters and wtth the 
0 
0

the rest of the paper.. : special projects editor, Pat Cole, on Stories· are· turned in. to 'the copyreader supplements and in-depth articles. She between .7 p;m. and'the 9 ·P..rri• deadline. also conducts the weekly senior staff The copyreader _goes.· .~y_er. story with the reporter meetings. 
~--~----------~---w 

Friday, September 16. 1977 
Activity in the news room of The Observer begins early in the morning. Story ideas for the following day are developed before the day editor arrives at 12:30 p.m. 
The daily routine  
11:00 a.m.  News editors arrive to prepare story sheet  
12:30 p.m •• 5:00p.m.  Day editor assigns stories for the day. Sports editor, Features editor, and editorial editor arrive at office to check for messages and look at  
upcoming material.  
l:OOp.m.  ·  Advertis.ing layout statt work on display ads in paper.  
6:00p.m.  
5:00p.m.  Day editor prepares story sheet, on campus today.  
7:00p.m.  Copy reader edits stories contents, checks AP wire.  
7:00p.m.  Evening typists arrive to typeset articles.  
Copy reader arrives.  Writes blurbs and press releases.  
9:00p.m.  Night editors arrive to begin production of news pages.  
9:30p.m.  Deadline for all news stories  

Night editor, assistant night editor, and layout staff lay o';lt news10:00 p.m. -? 
pages. Features, editorials, sports pages pasted up by respective staff members. 
6:00a.m. Deadline for bringing Observer to Printer 
10:30 a.m. Paper picked up for delivery. 
The ND-SMC connection 
policies do not need to be explained to a

Newsgathering at St. Mary's is a 
different reporter each time .. This "beat"

continuous process, with St. Mary's Editor 
system also provides the different groups

Jean ~owley and her staff of reporters 
with consistency.

always talking with students, faculty and 
The day editor is also responsible for

administrators in the search for stories 
selling classified ads and calling the Notre

affecting the college. 
Dame office with the list of St. Mary's

Each morning Powley makes a list of 
stories due in that night. 

stories to be asigned that day, as well as 
In the evenings between 7 and 9 p.m.,

stories which have already been assigned 
Sunday throught Thursday, a copyreader is 

but not turned in. The list usually includes 
stationed in the Regina South office to

meetings, lectures, events, people to be 
receive reporters' stories. She examines

interviewed, and news tips to be investi­
the raw copy for gramatical, spelling, style 

gated. 
and journalistic mistakes, correcting as she

From this list, either she or a day editor 
reads. The reporter is expected to stay in 

spends the afternoon in the St. Mary's 
the office while her story is read so that she 

office in the basement of Regina South 
may answer questions and see what

calling reporters to assign ~tories or check 
mistakes (if any) 1 were made. If needed, 

up on previously-assigned articles. Repor­
the copyreader revises the article and

ters may accept or decline assignments, so 
instructs its author on how to correct her

often the day editor's job is a difficult one. 
mistakes.

However, most student government and 
At approximately 9 p.m., the copyreader 

faculty mettings covered by The Observer 
leaves St. Mary's to take the submitted

need not be assigned by the day editor. 
stories to The Observer's Notre Dame

Certain reporters always cover the same 
office. Any reporter who has not turned

meetings so that they become familiar with 
her article in by 9 p.m. must turn it in at

members, procudres and current discus­
Notre Dame.

sions. That way, committee problems and 

The paper maintains a social/work atmosphere and looks forward to welcoming new staff members. 
Friday, September 16, 1977

10 the observer 
The sports section 
The alternatioe front page 
The position of Observer Sports Editor is great aeal of patience. one that many people believe is an Three very responsible students work enjoyable job to hold. Although there are page layout once a '!eek. Greg Solm~n is many tremendous advantages to the in charge of production on Monday mght, position, a great deal of time and effort is Tony Pace is responsible for operations on involved. Tuesday night, and Bob Keen is in control 
Working as sports editor, one has the on Wednesday night. The sports editor responsibility of assigning stories, copy works layout on Sunday and Thursday reading all sports material and organizing nights. a layout staff. Usually, the sports editor The fringe benefits that accompany the will attempt to organize all the story ideas position of sports editor are many, includ­for the upcoming week over the weekend. ing the opportunity to travel to all of the Then the decision of which story should be football games. In order to attend the away assigned to a certain reporter is the next games, the sports editor must write to the consideration. Everyone asked will not be sports information directors of Notre able to write. Dame's various opponents in late August 
When stories com~ in, they are sent to to request press credentials. The Observer the sp<"'ts desk. All of the articles must be makes arrangements for transportation proofread for gammatical errors. Once the and lodging. The sports editor tries to stories have been edited, they are sent to attend as many of the home athletic 
the typist. functions as possible. Aside from away 
Probably the biggest chore in the sports football games, basketball and hockey department is doing page layout. The job contests, which are within a reasonable of layout requires that the person in charge distance from Notre Dame, are attended. for the night arrive around 10 p.m. and The sports editor, though, could not stay until the sports page is finished. When work alone. The sports staff in connection one works until completion, he is looking at with the editor enables Notre Dame three in the morning, and sometimes even students to remain informed about the :s as late as 7 a.m. The job is quite a schools' renowned sports department as 
A reporter and a typewriter are rarely separated at The Observer offices. Articles arechallenge and requires someone with a well as the intracollege sports events. 
required to be in by the 9:30 p.m. deadline. 
Most dangerous job 
. persuasive sentences. She 1s also unlikely

Editorials is the most dangerous Job on to get much argument at that hour of the the newspaper, after Sport~. It deals with morning. the most inflamable material on campus: The horrors of editorial responsibility are opinion. apparent: If one is wrong, the entire 
The bulk of the editorial page's job is campus knows it. A poor editorial can conveying the opinions of readers to the tower the prestige of the entire newspaper rest of the community. This starts with the staff. It can cause the paper to lose, at 
Editorial Editor, who selects and edits least temporarily, the respect of its readers letters. columns and cartoons. Contribu-and their confidence in its credibility. At tions are rated on the basis of interest, times, editorial responsibility clashes with topicality, coherence, and reason and/or a natural trepidation at lambasting author-humor. Chances of a given letter or ity figures or--ten times worse--the student 
column ·being published depend on these body. factors and the volume of mail competing Yet, contrary to popular belief, no for space on the page. editorial editor has ever been liquidated or 
It is an unfortunate fact of the newspaper confined in the Student Health Center. business that advertising dictates the However, they probably should be a little number of pages run and therefore the more careful about breaking parietals and amount of space available for copy. The throwing frisbees on the quad than the editorial page averages 320 available average student. column inches per week vs. well-over 1000 It should be noted that any member of column inches of possible material. It is the editorial board may write an editorial, therefore necessary to place a length limit although (some insist) not everyone can. on contributions and to enforce it rigidly· The process is much the same in such a The Observer's limit is one typed, double-case, except that the phone calls generally spaced page per letter and two typed, go out several hours later. double-spaced pages per column. Despite the tremendous tests of mental 
Besides quality and length, readers' and physical endurance, editorial editing contributions are also edited for spelling, does have its compensations. The writing grammar and punctuation, within the form is more flexible than straight news­boudaries ofthe author's style. They must writing, so the editor can inject more of her also be checked for factual errors or personality into the editorial. Secondly, breaches of good tast. The copy for the she has a shot at influencing someone next day is selected and edited in the somewhere to do something. Occasional afternoon, then marked with instruction positive feedback can be disproportionately 
symbols and logged in with the typists. encouraging. 
The emotional demands of these editor-The Editorial Editor trains and super­ial duties are tremendous. The editor must vises a staff of lay-out people. Each is exercise both discretion and ruthlessness responsible for laying out the page on a in the cutting of verbo~e contributions. given night. They must pr~fread. each 
She must ignore the pangs of sympathy as item as it is typed and send 1D a hst of she condemns a lovingly but incomprehen-words, lines and sometimes whole para­sibly written item to the "comatose" or graphs to be retyped. When the correc­"dead" file. Vows of vengeance and tions have been processed, they lay them 
graphically-phrased curses are not uncom-in over the mistakes. 
mon from the victims of the editor's razor In designing the page for the night, each If news and sports are the heart of Tbe Features also endeavors to serve as a blade or publication criteria. Worst of all layout person follows a list of priorities the expressions of pained bewilder-I!ems
Observer features are its soul. They lend kind of sidelight to the news, highlighting are drawn up by the Editorial Editor. 
the paper' a character and dimension t~at .it people and groups making news in and ment that cause an editor to wonder if with top priority must be run that mght. perhaps she is not evolving into (shudder!) Items with lower priority may or may not
would otherwise lack. Just as 1t IS around the University community in order 
important for individuals to be well-round­to provide the reader with a more complete a literary critic. . be run, according to the amount of space A second, and more challenging part of remaining and the length of the item.
ed. to have a number of ctifferent interests context in which he can view important 
the editorial editor's job, is formulating There is also an editorial page style thatand activities, so to must a newspaper offer events and decisions. 
and expressing the collective opinion o~ the dictates much of the format. Some items"a little something for everyone." Also, Features seeks to acquaint editorial board on current top1cs. Ed1tor-(Doonesbury, the masthead, editorials)Because the Features Department ofTbe members of the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's ials are generally run in the same issue as a may only be layed in in certain places. 
Observer enjoys more latitude in what it community with the different programs, story dealing with the same topic. They Within the boundaries set by thecovers and how it covers it, it has become clubs and organizations that abound on cannot be written until the facts have been priorities and the page style, the layoutthe most inclusive of the departments. both campuses. Besides describing the collected and disclosed to board members. staff is free to design the page as theyThe principle area. of coverage. is t~e accomplishments of these groups, such Once the Editorial Editor has a sense of the wish. They are also payed a small salaryartistic and ~ultural hfe of t~e Umvers1~y articles provide a valuable service for board's opinion, she can begin to write. for each page they lay out. But best of all, community. Reviews of mov1es, dramatic persons interested in becoming involved in This generally takes several hours. the editorial staff gets to read Doonesbury productions by the ND-SMC Theater, rock any of these activities. Upcoming articles Once the editorial is written, the before anyone else on campus.
concerts and albums fall in this area. in this vein include a look at WSND-FM. 
editorial editor is forced to add immensely These are only staples, however, a!ld the Finally, Features performs an informa­to her popularity by phoning six otherFeatures Department tries to involve itself tional function through a weekly column members of the editorial board, often latewith any and all significant o~erings a?d that lists television programs, movies, at night, and reading it to them. Observerevents in the Notre Dame-Samt Mary s­radio highlights, and on-campus activities policy requires that a majority of the board
South Bend community. each week. 
approve all editorials. . . .
Examples of upcoming articles include a By combining information, analysis and The only positive aspect of th1s sltua~onreview of Saturday night's performance by service, Observer Features attempts to is the rather sadistic satisfaction the edttorChicago's Second City comedy troupe, a further not only the progress of the gets from awakening someone who ~~ pre-exhibition look at Margo Hoff's canvas aesthetic element of the University com­been sleeping while she labored to put htscollages, and a tour of Saint Mary's Church munty, but of the University commun!ty as , fragmented thoughts into eloquent and
of Loretto. a whole as well. 




Friday, September 16, 19n the observer 11 
Producing the paper; a full-time occupation~ 
next day and decide on their placement. governed by the priorities assigned stories Space is then blocked off on the layout by the news department. The night editor sheets and the ads "pasted-up." Most of also chooses the pictures which wiii appear the businesses advertising provide a rough in the issue. Working closely in all of these draft of how their ads should appear along areas are the assistant night editor and the with any necessary logos. During a typical layout staff. One of the most important afternoon 200-300 column inches of display parts of the night editor's job is to design ads are !l!!t together. the front page where two or three top stories will be placed. An able staff helps immeasurably by placing stories on the
-The evening work begins inside pages and leaving the night editorThe transformation from type written more time to devote to the front page,stories to typeset copy used to make up the training of new staff members and the paper is another vital part of the· paper. 
overall look of the issue. 

The Observer owns two typesetting The layout staff is a key element in themachines made by Compugraphic, Com­production of the paper. Individuals whopuwriter Jrs., and one headliner, a work layout place stories in the paper, crop Compugraphic 7200. The paper employs pictures, proof read articles and formulate 16 typists to work on the Compuwriters. 
headlines. Most of the staff has not hadCopy is typed from 7:00p.m. until the last any previous experience but are trained by story and any corrections are finished. 

the night editor and his (or her) assistant. 

These machines are basically type­The staff works on as voluntary basis,writers with a few added features. Instead usually one night per week for as manyof typing onto paper, the machine photo­hours as they can afford to devote to thegraphs letters onto film, three or six inches paper. The layout staff, even if their timewide, which then feeds into a removable is limited, helps to lighten the amount of cassette. The machine automatically ends work for their fellow workers and alleviate lines and sets the articles into columns. 
a last minute rush to finish the paper.

After a story is completed, the typist As the staff develops experience, theyremoves the cassette and develops the film . are encouraged to do more creative workin an Kodak Ektamatic processor. The film and contribute to the overall improvement is develped in seconds and placed on a in the paper. It is from this source that the heating unit to dry. The articles are then future assistant night editors and nightpassed on to the Night Editor for editors are recruited. New layout staffplacement in the paper. 
members are invariably needed and always The headliner works in a similar manner welcome. A complete night staff is oftenbut types on a continous line using a one instrumental in keeping orlt-deliveryinch wide strip of film. It also feeds the schedule on time. -'\..,.

film into a cassette from which the film is 
developed in the processor. 
The mgnt editor and the assistant Both machines have a capability of 
remain with the paper until the work is typing in six different type styles. The 
completed. The sports, editorial and headliner also sets type in seven sizes. The 
features section are prepared by students headliner is used by all of the staff 
working under the editors of the respective members as the paper is assembled. 
sections. At the close of the night, the paper is packed into a box and driven by Producing the Issue the night editor to the printer. The 
In the evening the news stories are laid Observer is printed at the Penny Saver on in uncl~r the direction of the Night Editor. South Michigan Street. Oul. deadline is Night ~ditors work one evening a week and 6:30a.m., although our goal 'ito to have the are ai:ied by an Assistant Night Editor. paper in well before that hour. The The night editor decides where stories wiii finished product is ready for distribution be placed in the paper, a decision partially by 10:30 a.m. 
The entire Observer staff 
Editorial Board: Marti Hogan, Editor-in-Chief; Martha Fanning, Managing Editor; Bob Brink, Associate Managing Editor; Kathy Miils, Executive Editor; Paul Stevenson, Sports Editor; Maureen Flynn, Editorial Editor; Barbara Breitenstein, Executive News Editor; Katie Kerwin, News Editor; Barb Langh~nry, News Editor; Jean Powley, St. Mary's Editor; David O'Keefe, Features Editor; Patrick Cole, Special Projects Editor. 
Drew Bauer, News Secretary; Steve Bonomo, Advertising Manager; Karen Chiames, 
Production Manager; Joan Fremeau, Copy Editor; Leo Hansen, Photography Editor; 
Ceil Popovich, Administrative Assistant; Sue Quigley, Business Manager; Laurie 
Reising, Women's Sports Editor. 
Copyreaders: Phil Cack!ey, Chris Datzman, Ann Gales, Jack Pizzalato, Bob Varettoni. 
St. Mary's Copyreaders: Ann Grzybowski, Honey McHugh, Lorraine Kalina, Pat 
Payne, Molly Woulfe. 
Day Editors: Kathy Connelly, Kate Flynn, Mike Lewis, Maribeth Moran, Tom Nilsson. 
Night Editors: Joe Bauer, Steve Odland, Paul Schappler, Leigh Tunakan. 
Assistant·Night Etlitors: Sandi Colson, Frank Kebe, Laurie McNulty, Rosemary Mills. 
Senior Staff Reporters: Drew Bauer, Phil Cackley, Cathy Nolan, Jack Pizzalato, 
Maureen Sajbel, Marian Ulicny, Bob Varettoni. 
Photographers: Rosie Appleby, Lisa Becker, John Calcutt, Doug Christian, Pat 
Herrmann, Debbie Krilich, Julie Palafox, Greg Trzupek, Kevin Walsh. 
Sports: Tim Bourret, Craig Chval, Tom Desmond, Bob Keen, Frank LaGrotta, Tony 
Pace, Tom Powanda, Ted Robinson, Ken Ryder, Chip Scanlon, Greg Solman, Monte 
Towle. 
Features: Drew Bauer, Maureen Sajbel. 
Editorial Layout: Pat Herrmann, Rick Labelle, Rosemary Mills, Judy Rupprecht, Kvin 
Sweeney.· 
Layout: ~argie Brassil, Paula Carroll, Bart Corsaro, Bill Devitt, Phil Hannigan, Tracy 
Herman.· 
Ad Layout: Paula Carroll, Rob Civitello, J. O'Connell, Greg Trzupek, Debbie 
Westrope. 
Ad Sales: Mary Acker, Chuck Dunn, Jeff Etoll, Peter King, Bill Nester. 
Reporters: Kate Flynn, Ann Gales, Tim Lew, Rosemary Mills, Jake Morrissey, Mike 
Moses, Mary Perry, Brigid Rafferty, Dave Rumback, Jack Silhavy, Kevin Walsh, 
Diane Wilson, Mike Lewis, Mary Pat Tarpey, Chris Datzman, Michael Kenahan, 
Peggy McGuire, Pat Dermondy, Florenceann Strigle, Bill Delaney, Val STefani, Jerry 
PErez, Michael Ridenour, Frank Laurino, Jim Coyne, Marueen Eyres, Tony Pace, 
Michael Berberich, Chuck Kaufman, Rich MacKenzie, Ed Callahan, Kate Farrell, San 
Fink, Pat Payne, Honey McHugh, Ann Bachle. 
Typists: Karen Chiames, Rich Clarizio, Gwen Coleman, Mary Corbett, Mary Jo 
Cushing, Lisa DiValerio, Ann Giere, MEg Kelly, Liz King, Nellie Liang, Mary 
McCormick, Tricia Meehan, JoAnne Meyer, Mardi Ne:vin, Suzy Plavac, Tom 
Powanda, Beth Rizzo, Mark Rust, Sue Scribner, Leigh Tunakan, Paula Vernon. 
Artists: Pam Butterworth, Pat Byrnes, Mike Milinelli, Maureen Sajbel. 
SUPPLEMENT STAFF 
Layout: Martha Fanning, Steve Odland 

Articles: Marti Hogan, Kathy Mills, Dave O'Keefe, Maureen Flynn, Paul Stevenson, 
Katie Kerwin, Barbara Breitenstein, Barb Langhenry, Jean Powley, Martha Fanning 
Photognphers: Maureen Flynn, Doug Christian 
As The Observer arrives at the dining halls to be read by the lunchtime crowd, the production of the next day's issue is already underway. 
Between 12:00 and 12:30 p.m. the Managing Editor, arrives at The Observer office in LaFortune Student Center to set up the pages for the upcoming issue and distribute the day's mail. The number of pages are determined predominantly by the number of advertisers scheduled to run their ads. While the Advertising Manager is totaling the number of advertising inches, the Editorial Editor and Features Editor are contacted to determine whether either wiii need space in the paper. The number of pages is ultimately based on the number of advertising inches, editorials, features and the projected amount of news. , 
The layout sheets are then placed on The Observer's light boards located in the production room. Pages are numbered and assigned to various departments. For the remainder of the afternoon (approximately from 2:00 p.m. to 6:00p.m.) the advertis­ing layout staff works on the paper. 
These individuals size all the ads for the 

What's news? It is the job of the reporter to determine the answer to that question, and The Observer's reporters lead an inquisitive life trying to do their job. 

A day in the life of an Observer reporter starts at about noon when he is either called by the day editor or calls the day editory for a story assignment. The day editor briefs the reporter on background material, appropriate questions and pos­sible persons to interview.· 
From there, the reporter attempts to gather information. This process can be extremely frustrating, especially if he must contact a busy administrator. Usually, after persistent telephoning, the reporter wii1 find persons who are available and have time to talk. 
The tone and style of the interview depends upon the reporter and the story. A few reporters use tape recorders, but the majority prefer paper and pen to take notes. 
Interview questions must be carefully phrased because it is important to ask questions which require inore $an a yes or no answer. A reporter must also be able to scribble quickly and, more importantly, be able to decipher what he has scribbled .. Accuracy is crucial. 
Once all of the information is gathered, the reporter sits down to write the story. Real wizards are able to go from their notes to their heads to the typewriter. 
The news story is written in inverted pyramid style -the most important facts in the first paragraph, or "lead," in new~ paper jargon. A good news lead should · answer the five W' s and one H -who, what, where, when, why and how. 
The rest of the facts are then presented in order of importance, with the least important material at the end of the story. All matters ot opinion and judgment must be attributt:d to someone since the story should be unbiased. 
Pressure is also part of the writing task because the deadlines must be met or the writer gains ma'ny enemies in the night staff. 
After the story is written, the reporter is subject to constructive criticism as he must present it to the copy reader for editing. It is a humbling experience to see someone scratch-out sentences or take a razor blade to the story and rearrange it. The process is similar to taking distasteful medicine one knows will be good for him. 
When the story leaves the copy reader's desk, the reporter's job is complete, except for the worry of whether his name will be spelled correctly in the newspaper. 


~~----------~-----------------­
Friday, September 16,.1977

12 
The lifeline of The Obseroer 
taking classified ads, answering the phoneAlthough the main function of any and doing all the general bookkeeping.

newspaper is to disseminate news, the The Administrative Assistant also does allpaper could_ ~ot exist without advertising. 
the billing for the advertising department The Adverttsmg department is an integral and fills in when there is no advertisingpart of The Observer because it takes in department representative in the office over half of the income necessary to cover 

production costs. 
The Observer business manager handles T~e Observer advertising department the _financial end ~f the newspaper. The consists of a ten member staff, including busmess manager 1s, necessarily, a senior the advertising manager, salesmen and ad accounting major who has an expertise in layout_ personnel: The advertising man­financial matters. 

ager IS responsible for assigning each The business manager has many daily
· 
..·"· 

salesman a list of advertisers to call and duties. For example, she processes all
,.,!lfll seeing that they follow through with the incoming checks and handles all cash contacts. He also oversees the design and 
disbursements. The business managerlayout of the ads and occasionally acts as a also prepares budgets and financial state­collection agent. 

ments. 

Since ":Iost of the advertising in The Although the business manager is not a Observer IS done on a semester basis the member of the editorial board and thus has advertising department puts in extra hours no real decision-making power, she must at the beginning of each semester. The keep the editor and the managing editor salesmen contact businesses who previous­informed at all times of exactly what the
always delivered. If it isn't dropped off at ly have advertised in The Observer to
While the creative processes of writing ·financial position of the paper is. She
the dining halls by rioon, it will simply be renew their contracts and contact other
and layout are the more visible aspects of performs an interpreter-like function· the
left there in the afte.rnoon so:that students businesses in the area for new contracts.
The Observer, there is yet another function business manager interprets the fin~nces 
can read it at dinnertime. · 
to the paper, distribution. Distribution is After the initial calls, the salesmen make of the Observer to te editor so that the the final, yet no less crucial stage of the Each morning at :to a.m. Th~ Observer weekly "pick-up" stops at the advertisers Pilitnr ran make the right decisions. publication process. to receive information for the ad that will Since the Observer was m great financial 
distribution man drives 4 mile~ so'uth on 31 
~o th: Penny Saver ·press, whe~e. the paper run week. information
It is the goal of The Observer to deliver be that This trouble last year, one of the main duties of 
the paper to the dining halls by lunchtime. IS pnnted. Then 9.200 copies weighing written on a copy order, includes the size of the business manager this year is to predict Usually this goal is met, but there are two between 800 and 1000 pounds, ·are loaded the ad and what the advertiser wants it to what the financial position of the paper will 
onto the van and 'taken back .to cainpus. to has more
reasons why it may occasionally arrive late. say. !he salesmen then bring the copy be make sure it no great
The Observer is distributed at 19 various
First. the paper can be delayed if the night order m to the advertising manager who financial problems. For example, the 
staff does not get the paper to the printer places on the Notre Dame arid:-st . .'Mary's enters the information into a book for the business manager will figure out the cash campuses. but the. largest amounts are left
by approximately 6:30 a.m. IF it arrives ad layout staff. income and cash outgo for this month and later than this time the printer will do any at the North and South Dtning.· Halls, The design and layout of the ad is up to then, using this calculation as a basis, will other business that he may have first and LaFortune Student· ·center, and· the St. the ad manager and layout personnel. This predict what the paper's financial position then print The Observer. Secondly, the Mary's Dining HalL Yet th~ paper also work is done in the afternoon so that the will be in March~ This will allow her to 
goes to such remote. and unlikely p_laces as production staff knows what space is
noon hour goal will 1ot be reached if The prevent in September, the occurrence of a
Moreau Seminary, the Morris lnh,.and the available for news. Ads never run on the
Observer van shoulo break down. Due to bad situation in March. 
. . . . . 
the fact. the approximately SO miles logged ROTC building. · editorial or sports pages. Basically, the job of the Observer on the van each day in the distribution The Observer also makes it to the far In addition to the advertising staff, The business manager is to figure out how the
reaches of the count_ry and th~ world, to Observer employs an Administrative As­
process, such failures occur too frequently. paper can afford to
places such as New Mexico and Maine, and sistant. The Administrative Assistant is
Mechanical failure of the van neccesitates 

England, France,.· a!ld Japan... Approxi­the only member of The Observer staff who 
an alternative method of delivering the 
paper. Setting up this method takes more 

mately 500 Observers are mailed out each who is not astudent and she has worked for 
BBlL IDBLD 

tiru.e. day to subscribers who just have to know The Observer for the past seven years. She t:lut no matter what happens the paper is what's going on attheir favorite. university. works 9:30a.m. to 5:30p.m. each week day 
.. 
How it all began, the founding of the paper 
Cardinal Spellman, Gen. Curtis ("Bomb Principle soon took a back seat toOperating from .. a tiny room . in the
EDITOR'S NOTE: this article was them back to the Stone Age") LeMay, and expediency. There was, after all, a war on,
student center, we went to work. imme­
written by Robert Sam Anson, founder of and we needed our student deferments. I
Werner Von Braun, designer of the Nazidiately. The best .reporters and editors
the Observer. It was written for the rockets that ravaged London. So Westy envisioned us ending up in the Mekong
were grabbed aw;1y from the ScbolastJc
Observer and pubUsbed In November of Delta, and all over a five letter word. We
was in good company.
with the lure of important~~nding 'titles.
1975. HopefuUy, you will enJoy the story of How we got the scoop was typical of the negotiated our surrender. We would
One of them was Pat Coolins, who· signed 
the paper's origin. apologize, but I got to write the apology. It
way we operated. I actually had no ideaon to write a column and be the paper's . was, if I do say so myself, a masterpiece of that Westmoreland was the winner. Know­news editor. Today, he ·is. one of equivocation. We said, in effect, that weing Notre Dame, I merely suspected heWashingtons best investigativ!! ·r.eporters. 
were sorry for anyone idiotic enough to be

was. I
Joel Garreau ·tame ·over to work on the Armed with my suspicions, sat 
A few years ago, during one of my down for a chat with the Vice Presidentof offended by reading a five letter word for
feature page. Today he is one of the senior
infrequent sojourns to Notre Dame, I intercourse. In the next issue of the
Student Affairs and casually mentioned.
editors of the Washington Post-o~ned
stopped by for a chat with Fr. Hesburgh. Observer, we printed a page of supporting 
how great it was for Notre Dame to beTrenton Times. The group we put together 
Naturally, the subject of the Observer was bright, committed honoring Westy. an old letters from our readers, and a longThe tactic wasenthusiastic, to
came up, and I askedFather how it was account of the administration's "intimid­
reporter's trick, but the poor father rose togood journalism and giving the administra­
doing... "Great," he said. "Very ation." The story closed with the
the "Isn't it?"
tion a bad time.. . The latei: ·task we bait immediately. he 
responsible. Not like it was when you were announcement that editor Anson was
exclaimed. I nearly tore the door off itsaccomplished with no trouble. .
running 'it." heading out to San Francisco to personally
hinges running back to the office with myWhen the Observer (I ripped the· name, 
Of-course, Father smiled when he said investigate the .practices of the Sexual
story. We bannered our exclusive over page . along with the logo from the National
that. At least I think he did. Freedom League. So ended the attempts of 
one, and ran a long indignant editorial, Observer) made its first appearance in to censor the newspaper.
Times were different in the sixties (you November, 1966, the reaction-from most saying that the award ought to be · . It all seems a little foolish now. Readingabolished. It was. ·remember the sixties, don't you? It was in readers was shock. The paper was clean Not all our causes were over my yellowed copies of the first year's
so glorious.

all the,papers), and so was the Observer. and well-laid out. The tone was breezy and Observer, I wince sometimes at theThere was, for instance, the famousNot better or worse, just different. readable. But the biggest surp_rise was 
amatuerishness of what seemed a bright, administration that nearly bounced me out 
Those were days when compulsary mass that there was actually news in the "screw" incident, a confrontation with the brave crusade for student journalism. I also attendance was not far behind us, when newspaper--and not just an accounting of think of all the stories we should haveof school and brought the Observer to athere were still bed checks at 10:00, when the latest good deeds of the Fighting Irish 
grinding halt. done, the investigations we should have women weren't allowed even in the dorms, and the Blue Circle. 
much less living in them, when the only Oh, we had our causes--did ·we have our The trouble, as usual, was mostly of our undertaken, the fun we could have had. 
Once and· a while I'll bump into one of the 

blacks on campus wen· Africans or on causes. own making. Late one week, ad deadline
We editorialized against the war (a 
football scholarships, and five hundred not very popular position around rushed toward us, we found that we had a old gang from the Observer, and we'll start
Notre 
reminiscing. It's funny, but the oneseveral inch "hole" in the newspaper and~me~icans were getting killed every week Dame in 1966), and for the first time, we enduring fantasy we all have is wishing weno copy to fill it. A copy of the underground 1n a httle place called Vietnam. raised the demand that students be given a could go back, start over, knowing what weBerkeley Barb was lying around the officeIt was in this climate that the Observer meaningful voice in the running of the know now. We laugh, and have anotherand someone began to page through it,

was born. university's affairs. We took special drink.
looking for a suitably short itme that wasWhat gave the Observer life was the delight in going after sacred cows. In one Those were the heady days, that first
death of another campus newspaper, the . early, page one story, we suggested that worth stealing. We found it in a brief year of the Observer. We were so full ofreport about the Sexual Freedom League,Voice. The Voice had been created several Tom Dooley mi~ht be in the grip of the ourselves, and what we imagined was ourone of whose members was quoted about
years before '?>:' the student government as Central lntelli~tence Agency--or as the power--not to be big campus
men on 

an official chronicle of the good that the joys of watching other people making 
headline put it: "An Ugly American After (the single greatest danger for a studentlove. He used a five letter synonym, which, student body presidents do. Naturally, no All?" At the time, such a suggestion was newspaper editor), but the power to printin a different context, is readily available in one took it very seriously, and when it skin to qu!!stioning the Virgin birth. It the truth, an, by printing it, somehow
any hardware store. Without much
finally sputtered to a halt in early 1966, the raised eyebrows and hackels. But it also change the way the country was heading. Itreaction was, well, a large ho-hum. got people thinking. And reading. thought, save how funny the item was, I was a naive notion, but we were better menstuck it in the newspaper. Fr. HesburghAt the time, I was working at the Our biggest scoop of the . year was for having it. 
was not amust:d.
Scholastic, which, then as now, .vas an discovering tha the University was going to As a he threatened All that is changed today. The agenda
matter of fact, tooffic!a~ chroncile of the good that university bestow the "Patriot of the Year" award on throw Feldhaus and me out of school for the country and its students has beenadmm1strators do. One night, Steve William C. Westmoreland. Looking back, .altered. Yesterday's causes have becomeunless we delivered a written apology to .·
Feldhaus, the last editor of the Voice came even the idea of such an ·.award seems todays' reality. The war is just a memory,to my room and made a startling proposal: obscene, much less giving it-to Westmore­every student on campus. For its part, the student government, more Catholic than · · and, for most of you, a distant one at that.
that we start a new newspaper, and that I land. But, at the time, the "award was an ·You can afford to be responsible. Your arebe its editor-in-chief. After thinking the important Notre Dame tradtion~. Previous the Pope, wanted to close the newspaper. 
· lucky. At least I think you are.

offer over for ten seconds or so, 1 accepted. winner!' had included such ·notables as Feldhaus and I considered our options.·. 
Most students come in contact with the paper via the phone or th f · · all hours people are around to answer any calls to The Observe~.recep mn _area. At 
The final stage, distribution 



Friday, September 16, 19n 
Letters to a Lonely God 
Not For Jim's Sake, But For Mine 
"Old deans," they say, "never die. They just lose their faculties.'' Possibly the same thing can be said of old provosts. We wouldn't know about that at Notre Dame, because we've never had a provost leave office before. Jim Burtchaell is our only former provost. He can hardly be considered old; you can bet he will not die; you can hope he will not lose his faculties. Whatever destinies former provosts may have, we'll know from watching Jim. Whatever he does, he will do with grace and style and charm; that's an absolute you can be positive of. 
I want to speak a word of praise for the former provost. So many unkind words have been written about him; such unfair and ridiculous judgments have been de­livered against him by every student, it seems, who has ever felt frustrated by an administrative decision. For once, I want the record to read: JIM BURTCHAELL IS A CARING AND COMPASSIONATE MAN. He is not Machiavelli; he is not the anti-Christ; he is not the Dark Angel whispering temptations in Father Res­burgh's ear. He is a sensitive, committed priest who loves Our Lady's children very much. Other people have said this--facul­ty, administrators, students--but I want it to be said publicly, by me, not for Jim's sake, but for mine. 
If you live with a chap in a campus community, you hear about the good things or the sad things a chap has done. Newspapers never give accounts of how a priest, fallen asleep at his desk, wakes up at three o'clock in the morning. Discover­ing that he has missed an appointment with a student having trouble at home, the priest walks a long distance to the dorm where the student lives; finding him, he comforts him with prayer and good counsel until daylight. Newspapers never tell of 
The Weeksworth 
NETWORKngineering Auditorium, 7:00, 9:15, 11:30, $1.00): Probably the most misunderstood masterpiece in recent years, Sidney Lumet' s film is a 'brilliant, frightening vision of the commercial tele­vision industry. The story revolves around an aging anchorman (Peter Finch) who goes from media freak to national hero in the course of a season. Faye Dunaway, William Holden, Ned Beatty and Beatrice Straight are all as smartly refined in their roles as is Paddy Chayefsky in hi,s script. 
Should not be missed. JUNIOR CLASS HAPPY HOUR (The Junior classes of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's will co-sponsor a Happy Hour today at Kubiak's. Pitchers of beer will only cost $1.75, with mixed drinks at half-price. The 
hours will be 3:00-6:00 P.M. 
SENIOR CLASS PICNIC: The Senior 
Classes of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
will co-sponsor a picnic today at the SMC 
Clubhouse beginning at 2:00 P.M. and 
lasting until midnight. They'll have beer, 
too, along with hot dogs, bratwurst, and 
music. You must be 21 and able to prove 
it. If it rains today, the picnic will be held 
tomorrow from 10:00 A.M. until 5:00P.M.. 
If it doesn't rain, we'll all be pleasantly 
su rised. 
MOLARITY MICHAEL MOLINElLI 
CHVCK,C4~ I A51\' YOU I AH PREPARING FOR THE ABOUT ALL THIS... /tiLlTAffY !NEVITABLF !JAY WHEN THE EQUIPI1ENT YOU HAVE? OP/JR£55ED PEoPlE IN AHE81rA 
WILL FU?CEASLY TAKE CO)JT/iOL OF TH£ GOVERN­HENT... 


THE WORK OF MARGO HOFF (7:00-9:00 P.M., Moreau Gallery of O'Laughlin Auditorium, Friday): An exhibit of canvas collages by SMC artist-in-residence Margo Hoff will be unveiled tonight. (See article, page 14) 
STUDENT UNION PLANT SALE (Saturday 
11:00 A.M.-3:00 P.M., LaFortune Ball­room): Back by popular demand, the Student Union will sponsor another plant sale featuring spider plants, ferns and Wandering Jews. Drop by and pick up a pot of nature for your room. · SECOND CITY (O'Laughlin Auditorium, 8:00P.M., Saturday, call 4-4407 for ticket information): Chicago's unique comedy troupe brings their own indelible brand of satire to Saint Mary's. Second City is perhaps most famous for its graduates, including Mike Nichols, Elaine May, Bob Newhart and David Steinberg. DICK GREGORY: The controversial civil rights activist and onetime mayoral candi­date in Chicago will speak Monday at 7:30 
P.M. in the Library Auditorium. Mr. Gregory's appearance is sponsored.by the Student Union Academic Commission. 
WHITE SOX TRIP: The Junior Class trip to the Chicago White Sox-California Angels game will be this Sunday. 
the thousand pastoral kindnesses done by a priest, already worn out at the end of the day with the chores of being provost. Newspapers don't hear stories of the visits made by the priest to out-of-the way homes and hospitals; of his sharing of his rooms and his money with kids down on their luck; or of the plane trips he has arranged to bring families together on great family occasions, in a ministry of kindness that has nothing to do with the fourteenth floor ofthe library. Newspapers are not aware of the ways in which a priest is busy being Christian as well as provost; but I am 
aware  of  the  provost's  thoughtfulness  
because  people  he  has  helped  in  this  
community have told me.  

I remember a letter that Jim Burtchaell wrote to Newsweek magazine last year affirming his opposition, as a Catholic, to the abortion decision of the Supreme Court. Later, I heard of Jim's remark that though he had received a great deal of hate mail responding to his Newsweek letter, he had not received a single note of support from fellow priests who stood with him. I should have written Jim a line of thanks on that occasion, because I remember feeling proud of him. For the sake of the record, I want to say publicly I was proud of· Jim then; I am proud of him now. 
Jim and I are good friends, but not intimates. We never go bowling together, or have dinner together (except at Corby Hall); we don't even see each other very often. Yet I credit him with being terribly influential in my life. Once, several years ago, I wrote sour words in the Scholastic about the Dean of Students and his assistant. The Provost sent me a terse, hand-written note on his elegant vellum stationery. "I am greatly displeased," he said, ''about your recent words in the Scholastic repudiating what you have 
Reverend Robert Griffin 

written, and what I have believed, about Christian graciousness.'' I quote the words from memory, because I have never forgotten them. He didn't say: "You are wrong; you are dumb; you are wicked." He simply mentioned Christian graciousness and one whose behaviour repudiated it, and I felt as shamed and as cheap as though I had gotten caught in the very act of physical sin. No on~ wants to appear ungracious, least of all, un-Christianly ungracious. Since that day, I have never felt tempted to take sniper's shots at my colleagues. 
Once, we tilted teacups together on the sofas in the provost's office. "You have a tendency to describe things diminutively," he said. "For example, your ladies ;lre so often little and old. You always call them 'little, old ladies,' have you noticed? Students, as you write of them, become munchins or moppets, or are in other ways reduced." After that insight, I grew so conscious of style for a while that I could scarcely mention an old lady without wanting to make her an advanced case of obesity. 
He said words that, now remembered, 
sounded something like this.  "As a rector  
and  as  a  priest  of  the  Holy  Cross  
community,  you  enjoy  the  privilege  of  

being at Notre Dame and of belonging among the administrative personnel of the University. Yet you seem embarrassed at being in administration, and you write of administrators as though you had nothing to do with them, and as though they belonged to a different breed.'' 
It was an incisive comment, hitting home a fault I had never seen in myself before. I am not free, nor should I want to be free, to be loyal mostly to students, and not to the University and the Holy Cross community as well. His comments were worth 
STRAW DOGS Sam Peckinpah's violent tale of a man set on revenge will be shown Tuesday and Wednesday in the Engineer" ing Auditorium. Times will be announced. ED SADLOWSKI: Mr. Sadlowski, who narrowly lost last spring's election for president of the steelworkers union, will deliver the first of this year's Cardinal O'Hara Business Lectures. Sadlowski, a rank-and-file worker who rose through the ranks, posed a serious threat to incumbent 
I.W. Abel's longtime domination of the ;..nion, only to lose in a bitterly con.tested election that is still being investigated. 
ON THE TUBE T1JE MAKING OF STAR WARS (Friday, 7:00P.M., 28): Artoodeetoo and Three­ceepio are our hosts for this behin_9-ms­scenes account. Mark· Hamill, Carrie Fisher and Harrison Ford appear as well. COLLEGE FOOTBALL (12:45 P.M., Satur­day,28): The Alabama Crimson Tide vs. Nebraska'sCornhuskers in Lincoln. COLLEGE FOOTBALL (Saturday, 
1:30 P.M., 16): The Fighting Irish battle the Mississippi Rebels in Jackson. NFLFOOTBALL(Sunday, 1:00 P.M., 22): The Chicago Bears open the season by entertaining the Detroit Lions in Soldier's Field. 
remembering because, for all their brief­ness, they have helped me grow in my awareness of what "belonging" means. I was also touched by the ways that Jim has of noticing and being attentive to the unimportant guys, and letting them know he cares, to the precise detail, about what they are doing. Chaplains need to be cared about; otherwise it feels very lonely, being unimportant. 
I was in Maine, staying at the house where Harriet Beecher Stowe wrote Uncle Tom's Cabin, when I heard the news the provost had resigned. "Courage,'' I thought, staring at the phone, "courage is a strength Jim Burtchaell has always had.'' In a world where it is necessary to feel popular, Jim has had the courage to make the hard decisions that his contemporaries will criticize him and misunderstand him for. Jim does not enjoy the moments when he seems feared or hated. I know this, because he once told me (I hope not in confidence, Jim) he wanted people to love him. It takes courage, and "grace under pressure,'' to make the hard decisions. It takes strength to endure the garbage that gets heaped on your head while you never make a public complaint. 
I wante~ to speak a word of praise for the provost; others will do it better, but none will do it more sincerely. He is still here among us, thank God, neither fading away nor losing his faculties. Having him gone as provost makes the campus world seem like a colder place, as though our September were being lived in the hours after midnight when brightness has gone home with the sunset. A lot of us will miss Jim Burtchaell as provost. The other night, seeing the lights burning at two o'clock in the Administration Building, I wondered if Father Hesburgh doesn't miss him too. I wouldn't hesitate to believe tht the two men miss each other very much. 
ALL IN THE FAMILY [Sunday, 7:00P.M., 22): Henry Fonda is the host for. this hour-long look at highlights from the series' first 100 shows. THE LIFE AND TIMES OF JUDGE ROY BEAN (Sunday, 8:00 P.M., 22): Paul Newman stars in this 1972 John Huston rum about the hanging judge who brought law and order to Texas in the 1890's. Although the biography plays fast an loose with the facts, it is nevertheless good entertain­ment. GABLE AND LOMBARD(Monday, 8:00 P.M., 28): Not only does this biography play fast and loose with the facts, but it also makes up a few of its own. James Brolin as Clark Gable and Jill Clayburgh as his lover, Carole Lombard, turn in hap­hazard performances that do little for the overall effect. :~ONDAY NIGHT FOOTBALL (Monday, 8:00P.M., 28): Don Meredith will be back in the booth with Howard Cosell and Frank Gifford as another season of Monday Night Football opens in Pittsburgh with the 49ers meeting the Steelers. 
ON THE SCREEN ANDY WARHOL'S FRANKENSTEIN at the Mall Theater, 6:30 and 9:30P.M. THE ISLAND OF DOCTOR MOREAU AT Boiler House 1, 7:15 and 9';15 VOYAGE OF THE DAMNED at Boiler House 2, 6:30 and 9:30 P.M. 
ROCKY at the Colfax Theater, 7:00 and 
9:00P.M~ 
ONE ON ONE at the River Park, 7:30 and 9:30 P.M. THE SPY WHO LOVED ME at the Scottsdale Theater, 7:00 and 9:15 P.M. SUSPIRIA at the State Theater, 7:30 and 9:30P.M. . 
YOU LIGHT UP MY LIFE at Town and Country 1, 7:30 and 9:30P.M. FINAL CHAPTER: WALKING TALL at Town and Country 2, 7:40 and 9:40 P.M. STAR WARS at Forum 1, 7:00 and 9:30 P.M. MACARTHUR at Forum 2, 6:45 and &;15 P.M. 
ON THE ROAD THE QUICKEE will be running this Friday night, leaving the ND Circle at each half-hour, with stops at THE FORUM THEATERS* KUBIAK'S* THE HEIDEL, BERG* and SHULA'S along the way. Times and prices are posted. 
~---~--------~-.......-----·--·---­

The Fire and the Rose 
Friday, September 16, 1977
14 the observer 

text and photos by Maureen Sajbel 
The first work by Margo Hoff that I, and most students at St. Mary's, had ever seen was the Iifesizc drawing of Sister Madeleva in the small lobby of Madeleva Hall. The softness of the collaged rice paper layers, the dignity of the lines and the quiet sensitivity of that picture were things that had always intrigued me during my years at St. Mary's. It gave the building a sense of completeness and helped at times like a silent solemn prayer before all of those tests and finals. 
Margo Hoff, the artist who drew that picture in 1970, came to St. Mary's in the spring of 1975, my freshman year, for workshops, lectures and a one-woman show. I remember her as a small but energetic lady from New York, who loved poetry and did large, brightly colored canvas collages. 
This semester St. Mary's has the honor of having this talented woman back as artist-in-residence. During her stay here 
Ms. Hoff will present two one-woman shows, the first of which, "Canvas Collages," opens this evening in St. Mary's Moreau Hall and runs until October 
22. The second show, consisting of paintings and drawings, runs from October II until November l in the Fairweather-Hardin Gallery. lOt E. Ontario Street in Chicago. 
1went to see Ms. Hoff on Sunday to ask if 1could interview her and take pictures of the works in her St. Mary's show. She graciously gave of her working time to talk and show me each of the canvas collages. 
We sat in her small apartment-studio on the first floor of Moreau Hall and talked about her work, teaching and shows. She prcfered to talk about her current work rather than her past activities that included everything from designing painted curtain environments for dancers to writing and illustrating children's books to designing tapestries and mosaic walls. 
Her current art work includes commis­sioned murals, paintings, drawings and ~he unique colorful canvas collages for wh1ch she is known world wide. She makes the collages by first painting strips of c~nv~s with acrylic paint. Each large strip 1s painted with a full range of values of _one color and the strips are then cut mto v;:.,.ious geometric shapes and laminated to large pieces of unstretched canvas. . 
I asked about the inspiration of the City of New York in her works, remembering one collage of an intersection of the city in that freshman year show. 
· • I live on 14th street in New York, at a place called 'The Intersection'," she said. "I seem to use the symbols, shapes, color and action 1.of the city--it's a kind of language. I also get images and ideas fro bridges, dancen, audiences as a whole, poetry and light." 
She pulled a small sketch book from her large black purse and showed me some ?f the drawings in it. She always travels wtth sketchbook and takes verbal and non­verbal notes of the simple things around her for future work. Each line drawing showed the remembrance of a passing moment--the movement of a dancer, the shoreline on a trip to Scotland or an impres­sion from a piece of music. 
Margo Hoff's life is as much a collage as her canvases. She gave me a portfolio of clippings and resumes to look through that was amazing. 
The Oklahoma born artist went to the University of Tulsa, The Art Institute of Chicago, and the Pratt Institute in New 

I York. She received the honary degree of 
I w Doctor of Fine Arts from St. Mary's and has won countless awards. Ms. Hoff has over thirty one-woman shows, and nume~­ous permanent collections, The Art Insti­tute of Chicago and The Victoria and Albert Museum in London to name only two, own pieces of her artwork. She has been com­missioned to paint murals in such places as the Mayo Clinic iP Rochester, MN, and the Home Federal Building in Chicago. Her latest commissioned work is a 9'x24' canvas mural in theClintonCounty Govern­ment Center in Plattsburgh. NY. The Council on the Arts in New York awarded the commission after a state wide competi­tion to find three artists to create murals, paintings and sculpture for the building. Ms.Hoff won first and second place in the competition. 
The first mural, finished this past sum­mer is a stvlized aerial view of the country­side'around Plattsburgh. The area was im· portant in the Revolutionary and Civil wars and MS. Hoff told of buying old_ maps and books in order to include the rich historical 


background in her mural. She had collec­
ted all the information she could, but the 
idea for th,:: final work didn't crystalize un 
til a private pilot offered to give her a tour 
of the area in his small family plane. . 
Ms Hoff plans to begin the second mural in December or January, following the completion of· her semester as artist-in­residence at St. Mary's. 
She pulled a UNICEF Christmas card from the portfolio. The picture on the cover was her painting titled "Three Saints," an intricate mosaic collage of three figures. She donated the rights for reproduction to UNICEF and the original painting had been purchased by author James Mitchner and loaned to the Univer­sity of Texas collection. Itwas a rewarding experience to work with UNICEF because of the unexpected response, she said. That Christm 'ls she received the cards with her design from people all over the world. 
Ms. Hoff has been an artist-in-residence at Saugatuck, the summer school of The Art Institute of Chicago, Ball Sate Univer­sity, American University in Beirut, Leba­non, University of Southern Illinois at Car­bondale, and St. Mary's in 1969-70. Also, she-taught in the Maria Goretti School in Fort Portal, Uganda and Colegio Santa Maria in Sao Paulo, Brazil. 
She, along with two sisters from St. 
Mary's, Sister Miriam Patrick Cooney, and Sister Maria Concepta McDermott, taught in the Uganda school beginning in June of 1971, just following the coup by Idi Amin Dada, but were not affected by the change in government. She said that they were free to work and travel as they pleased back then. The Sisters of the Holy Cross operated the Goretti school in Fort Portal on the Cambridge Senior Secondary sys­tem. Ms. Hoff taught using materials found in the environment that ranged from clay, rough cotton fabrics, and paper to powdered color dyes. . 
From Uganda she traveled to Tanzama with the Sisters to visit the African gradu­ates from St. Mary's College. One 1963 graduate that Ms. Hoff met was Mary Jo Kasindi Kamm, the first woman in the Tanzanian Parliament and the firector of a girl's school in Moshi. 
In Sao Paulo's Colegio Santa Maria Ms. Hoff worked with wood, clay and mosaic. She conducted teacher's education classes and summer art seminar workshops. In one workshop there she wrote: 
Art is an important part of the education of a child or an adult. It is not an isolated subject, but directly related to ways of learning and developing. Art can be called non-verbal communica­tion, it can be the learning of skills and 

concepts. It can be the entrance to the 
culture of a country of increase awareness and many areas of living.  a people. perception  It in  
I asked her if it  was  difficult  to  be  a  

teacher and carry out her own personal work at the same time. She sat back in the large striped chair and thought for a moment. "It's a hard thing to do," she said. "Teaching and working are each engrossing propositions. I get great satisfaction working with students. When you do personal work it goes to a gallery, it's sold or it isn't. You may not get a response. Working with students has a kind of immediacy and is a wonderful relationship." 
We walked to the gallery located under the O'Laughlin Auditorium to see the works for the show, though they were not yet hung. Ms. Hoff walked through the clean, white gallery lit only by the late afternoon sun and stood in front of the wall the gallery visitors would first see. There, she pointed out, she would like "The Dove Descending", a work done in various values of red, white and grey. The collage consisted of many canvas shapes arranged to subtly reveal the soft outline of a dove. Ms. Hoff had taken her imagery and inspiration for this piece from T.S. Eliot's poem "Four Quartets": 
The dove descending breaks the air 
With flame of incadescent terror 
Of which the tongues declare 
The one discharge from sin and error. 
The only hope, or else despair 
Lies in the choice of pyre or pyre-­To be redeemed from fire by fire. 
The collages were sent to Ms. Hoff rolled in three large tubes. She unrolled them and laid them on the large oriental carpet in the gallery. They glowed with vibrant color even there in the dimly lit room. She lifted each one off the rug and held it up for me to see. 
She had based her works for this show on various things. One collage titled "The Rose and The Flame" was also inspired by the images from Eliot's "Four Quartets": 
We shall not cease from exploration And the end of all our exploring Will be to arrive where we started And know the place for the first time. Through the unknown, remembered gate When the last of earth left to discover Is that which was the beginning; At the source of the longest river The voice of the hidden waterfall And the children in the apple-tree Not known, because not looked for But heard, half-heard, in the stillness Between two waves of the sea. Quick now, here, now always-­A condition of complete simplicity (Costing not less than everything) And all shall be well and 
All manner of thing shall be well When the tongues of flame are in-folded Into the crowned knot of fire And the fire and the rose are one. 
Ms. Hoff based another collage on jazz music and several others on images associated with specific people, such as Bob Dylan, Rachel Carson, and Martha Graham. These are not portraits, she explained, but physical images based on the action of a microphone, the line of r guitar, the color of theatre lights, or actior, translated into shapes of color. 
One spectacularly large desert-colored collage with architectural lines of crayon wax is titled "Homage to Frank Lloyd Wright." "His ideas were very concrete designs of buildings,'' she explained. ''He loved the desert, stone and wood, and his work was solid and linear at the same time." 
The addition of the crayon line was new in this show. Ms. Hoff added the linear aspect to give "a different vibration of color." She also uses acrylics transparent­ly as a glaze to vary the depth and vibrations of colors. 
It was late and we had spent more time than we had planned to looking at the works. I helped place the collages back in order and we left the gallery. She would return tomorrow to carefully hang each piece in the gallery and I knew I would return many times during the show to look at the radiantly colored colages and remember what she'd said about each one. 
·--­

------------------------------------. 
ND reviews own grad programs 
Notre Dame is nearly halfway through the formal reviews of its graduate programs suggested by its Graduate Council and mandated by the Committee on University 
' Priorities (COUP) in 1973. 
Fifteen of the 37 graduate pro­grams have completed the com­bined self-study and external review. These are philosophy, economics,English, aerospace and mechanical engineering, mathema­tics, physics, sociology and anthro­pology, history, biology, govern­ment and international studies, electreical engineering, chemistry, theology, civil engineering, and history and philosophy of science. 
The remaining reviews will con­tinue throught the fall of 1978. 
The entire review process takes from six months to a year, begin­ning with a comprehensive accounting by the department of its performance over the last five years, including goals, programs curriculum, faculty, students and support. This is followed by a site visit, usually by three external reviewers who spend two days on the campus meeting with faculty, students and administrators. 
The self-examination, external reviewers' reports and depart­mental response are summarized in a fourth report prepared by a faculty committee. All the reports are considered and debated by the Graduate Council, but only the summary report and discussion are made public. 
While each report addresses concerns specific to a department, there are common threads. Re­viewers are impressed by the quality and energy of the faculty, and cite excellent teaching as a major characteristic. They also stress the importance of recruiting and nurturing outstanding young faculty. 
Programs generally are des­cribed as strong, and reviewers commend a tendency for depart­ments to focus their resources on a few areas of strength. Where this focusing has not been done, the department is criticized. 
Overall quality of graduate stu­dents is good, but there is a need for greater financial resources in some disciplines to attract even more highly qualified applicants. Departments also should strive for greater visibility in the academic community, the reviewers said. 
Facilities range from the best ever seen to the worst. Libraries typically are judged strong in the sciences an engineering but weak in the humanities. "Insufficient funds for acquisitions" is a fre­quent criticism. 
Recognizing a commitment to first-rate advanced education, the COUP Report recommended re­view and evaluation of graduate degree programs to be conducted every five years. 
"Graduate and professional studies make a university a center of research and scholarship and a place of intellectual ferment," the report said. "Our most urgent advice in this area i.s that there be periodic reviews of departments by panels drawn from outside the University. To prepare them­selves, all departments should be required to do thorough self­studies. 
Dr. John J. Fitzgerald, who was assistant vice-president for ad­vanced studies and instruction until he retired in August, explained 

Plitt ticket price falls 
by Ed Callahan 

Discount tickets for Plitt theaters have dropped from last year's price of $1.75 to $1.50. These discount tickets are good for admission to the State, Scottsdale, River Park, Town and Country 1 and 2 the Marquette 1 and 2 theaters. 
Students can purchase the Plitt tickets at the Student Union (SU) ticket office from noon to 4 P.M. Monday through Friday. They are good for six months. 
The tickets can also be pur­chased from those hall treasurers who opt to buy the tickets from SU on a no-refund basis. "I sent a letter out to all of the hall presidents informing them of the situation,'' explained Joe LaCosta, SU ticket sales manager. "It is up. 
Student mgrs. to hold reunion 
The student athletic managers' organization plans to hold a 're­union on Sat., Oct. 1, immediately following the Notre Dame-Mich­igan State football game, Robert Sobanski, head football manager, has announced.. The reunion will be held on the patio of the Morris Inn and will include an open bar. 

All former student managers from previous years are invited to attend. 
to them and their treasurers if they 
would like to sell the tickets in their 
individual halls." 
SU buys the tickets from Dennis Pregel, manager of the Town and Country theaters. "We buy 300 tickets at a cost of a dollar and a half, " LaCosta said. "In turn, we sell them to the students at the same reduced prices.'' 
The regular admission price at 
Plitt theaters is $3. 
Lagios opens NO concert series 
The Notre Dame Concert series 
opens its 1977-78 season at iUS, 
Wednesday, Sept. 21, with the 
appearance of Maria Lagios, lyric­
coloratura soprano. Lagios will be 
joined by Elizabeth Buccheri, pi­
ano, in a program dedicated to the 
music of Oliver Messiaen, the 
contempory French composer. 
The program is in the Library 
Auditorium and is open to the 
public without charge. 
Lagios, a graduate of the 
University of Michigan and North­
western University, is presently on 
the Wheaton College Conservatory 
of Music. She is a member of the 
Chicago Opera Studio and the 
Chicago Baroque Ensemble. She 
has appeared as a soloist with the 
Chicago Symphony Orchestra on 
the Emmy Award winning show, 
"Artists' Showcase" and on Na­
tional Educational Television. 

1t. LET US SUDS YOUR DUDS 
0
MONTICELLO CLEANERS ~ 441 East Howard 

walkina distance from N.D. campus
,DROP-OFF LAUNDRY SERVICE 
PROFESSIONAL DRY CLEANING 
,WASHING MACHINES STILL$.35 

will wash, drv, press -even furnish their own soap with reasonable prices, 
1 Mile North of NOTRE DAME on U.S. 31 North 

that the goal was to recognize the 
Just South of NORTH VILLAGE MALL • (219) 277-1522 
strengths of Notre Dame's pro­grains in a time of diminishing financial support and student de-~\ mand in order to concentrate .: ·~ .'l'§ efforts and resources in the strong-A~1 est areas. Fitzgerald had co-1%~ 4/ erlcan hero of ordinated the review process since ...-_,,/;,,~~ ur time • •• and it began in the fall of 1974. ~;:~, 'r lbeU of a man . 
do~~':-~,~,;~.;,tR~a!';.~,~.j -~~ -~-Ml!'!'!::~ ' 
studies, the most significant result J-4A~~-~' ~ 'ADftlll_ft. 
so far has been that •'the faculties passes or reduced price tickets~ Mil I QU 
have come to understand their total FRI. 6:45-9:15 SAT. SUN. 1 :45-4:15-6 :45-& 9:15 operation and to recognize what §;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:·::;:;:;::;:;:;::::::;:;::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::::::::::;:::;:;:;::;:;:;:;::::;:;::;:;:;:;::;:;:;::;:;:;:;:;:::::::::::::;::::::::·::::: 
they are doing. This gives them a greater vision of themselves and of the University as ·well,., Gordon said. 
He called· the reviews a very important exercise toward achiev­ing academic excellence which will have a marked effect on the future of Notre Dame. 
Most of the departments have been willing to rearrange their priorities in terms of their actual academic and economic resources, concentrating on areas of depth and substance, he said, and in the future, the comprehensive review package will be the yardstick by which a department's performance is measured. 
NEED QUICK CLEANING? 
Campus Cleaners 

located in leMans Hall Basement 
&.. 

Dry Oeaning -I day service 
""""""""""==~~ 

reasonable prices 
I 

open : 10 to 4 Thurs 10 to 4:30 MTWF 
YOU SAY YOU WANT A ROOMFUL OF MUSIC BUT YOU JUST SPENT A FORTUNE ON BOOKS? 
HOW DOES A $299 Advent, SONY. ,'1)0(9" STER.EO. SOUND ? 
IMPRESSIVE! 

Our new $300 stereo system is really a spectacular bargain, designed to blow your mind but not your budget. 
The amazing system is built around some incredible loud­speakers from the Advent Corporation, the company that has a reputation for making better and better speakers for less and less money. 
The Advent 3 speakers are a two way acoustic suspension design whose basic operation is much like that of Advent's more expensive speaker sys­tems. Its woofer's cone is free to move over a great distance to push air effectively for good bass response, and it has a heavy and expensive magne­tic structure that permits ex­cellent undistorted output. A precise cone tweeter assures clear highs with excellent dispersion. 
To drive these little gems, we've chosen the Sony StR 1800 receiver. If you're into FM, the tuner section of the StR 1800 has all the circuitry and features you'll need for drift-free, clear FM reception. 
And if you're inclined to listen to Chicago stations the Sony 1800 receiver will sur­prise you and disappoint the competition. 
The turntable is the now famous BIC 920 ready to play with moulded base and an Audio Technica cartridge. It will take good care of your records and get all the sound they have to offer playing after playing. 
These componetlts would sell separately for $415; we offer you the complete system for $299. The price includes assembly and the services only Audio Specialists can offer. 
Corne in and ""~ljoy. 

WE NOW STOCK

AUDIO SPECIALISTS 
MICROCOMPUTERS

415 North Michigan 234-5001 

....... . ~­

.-.: 

...• 



Friday, September 16, 1977 
16 the observer 

Senate blocks government ban on saccharin 
WASHINGTON [AP] The Senate voted yesterday to block for 18 months a government ban · on saccharin but rejected a proposal that cancer warnings be required in advertisements ofproductscontain­ing the artificial sweatener. 
The Senate approved the delay 87-7, sending the measure to the House. 
Although the bill would require warnings printed on products con­taining saccharin the Senate de­cided against requiring the same warnings in printed ads or in radio or television commercials. 
That prompted the bill's spon­sor, Sen. Edward M. Kennedy, (D-Mass.) to ask the Senate to return the legislation to committee. 
Kennedy claimed that eliminat­ing the advertising requirement gutted the bill. Congress should not allow diet soda and other products to continue to be sold without such warnings in advertis­ing, he argued. 
But the Senate turned down 69-24 his proposal to return the bill allowed the Food and Drug Admin­istration's (FDA) ban on saccharin products to take effect as scheduled on Oct. 1. 

Saccharin, the only artificial sweetener left on the market, has been linked to bladder cancer in laboratory animals. 
The bill would impose a morato­ium on the FDA ban while addition­al government studies are made to evaluate the relative health risks and benefits of using saccharin as a sugar substitute. 
Defenders of saccharin claim its a diet, outweigh any adverse health effects. 
But Kennedy said that allowing saccharin products to be advertised without the appropriate warnings "goes against the recommendation of every health expert in this country." 
Th<;! Senate first voted 55-39 to remove from the bill the require­ment for a broadcast advertising warning. Then it voted 58-28 to remove a requirement for warnings in printed advertisements. 
Under the bill that was ap­

containing saccharin themselves. 
It would read: "Warning:This 
product contains saccharin which 
causes cancer in animals. Use of 
this product may increase your risk 
of developing cancer." 
The warning, supported by the 
Carter administration, also would 
have to be attached "in a conspic­
uous place" on store displays and 
on vending machines dispensing 
products containing the sweatener. 
The proposed 19 month delay 
would begin running from the time 
the biJ.I is enacted. Nearly identical 
legislation has been approved by a 
House health subcommittee and 
will be acted on by the House 
Commerce Committee next week. 
The FDA announced earlier this 
year that it planned to ban sacchar­
in as a food additive in products 
such as diet sodas. The ban has 
been temporarily delayed to await 
congressional action on the legisla­
tion to delay it. 
In announcing the ban, the FDA 
cited a study done by the Canadian 
government which showed that 
saccharin, when fed in high doses 
to laboratory rats, cause bladder 
cancer. It acted under a federal law 
requiring the banning of any food 
additive shown to cause cancer in 
either man or animals. 
A later Canadian study linked 
the sweetener to humans, conclud­
ing that it increased the risk of 
bladder cancer in males. 
However, announcement of the proposed ban generated a storm of public protest and many medical and scientific authorities ques­tioned the wisdom of removing it from the marketplace. 
Bender wants to restructure SLC 
[continued from page 1[ 
The current members of the SLC are: administrators, Brother Just Paczesny, vice-president for 
Student Affairs; Dean of Students James Roemer; Sr. Vivian Whitf'­head, rector of Breen-Phillips; Sr. Jane Pitz, assistant director of Campus Ministry; and Dr. William Burke, assistant to the provost. 
Faculty members are Fr. James Shilts, assistant professor physics; Sophie Korczyk, assistantprofessor of finance; Paul Rathburn, associ­ate professor of English; Sarah 
Daugherty, assistant professor of 
English; and Albert LeMay, assis­tant professor of modern langu­ages. 
Student members are: Peter Haley, south Quad representative, and temporary chairman; Gary Luchini, North Quad representa­tive; Terry Finnegan, off-campus representative; Bender; and a representative of the HPC, to be determined. 
If the CLC surplants the SLC, Student Government will have to present implementation plans to the trustees. Bender stated that 
If you are then you should look into the Navy's Nuclear Officer Programs. The ~avy operates 60 percent of this country's nuclear reactors, and our training facilities are the finest in the world. Within the Nuclear Field, 

1-the Navy offers programs in the following areas: 
Operational Engineering -offers one year of graduate-level training in Nuclear Engineer­
mg. 
Research-Development -involves pure R & D at the Navy's facilities in Arlington, Va. 
Nuclear Instructor -teaching position at our Nuclear Power School in Orlando, R. 

To apply for one of these programs, you must have these qualifications: 
\ 
Be a junior or senior pursuing a degree in engineering, math, physics or hard science. 
Have a G. P.A. of 3.2 or better. 
Be less than 27 years old, in good physical health. 
A Navy Officer Representative will be in South Bend on September 20, 21 and 22. To obtain further information or to schedule an informal interview, call coiled 317-269-6197. 
procedures were intentionally not included in the original proposal to simplify it and reduce it to the principal matter interest. 
The SBP indicated that the six rectors on the council would prob­ably be designated by the rectors themselves. The four hall vice­presidents would be chosen by the assembled hall vice-presidents. The Faculty Senate would nomi­nate both faculty representatives. 
It's time to change the SLC " Bender asserted. Student life has changed from what it was when the SLC was created, he continued ''the radicalism is gone, and the administration is more open and available to students now." 
He said he found no fault with the SLC personnel but rather with the structure. 
-. I,.. 
... h ; 



u

• ,. Friday, September 16, 1977 the observer 17 
Lance tells Senate: ''My conscience/ is clear'' · 
W ASHINGTON[AP] -Declanng his wife and eight relatives ran up a Then it was reported that Lance banking regulators consider them nounced. 
that "my conscience is clear," Bert total of $450,000 at one time, had borrowed money from several illegal if the bank suffers from the John Stokes, the U.S. attorney in Lance mounted an item-by-item although they began paying inter-banks in which the Georgia bank transaction. Lance insisted the charge, said yesterday the case was defense yesterday of dealings as a est on the amounts of the over-had interest-free accounts. bank did not suffer. not strong enough for preosecu-Georgia banker and then under-drafts. "It has been alleged that I Lance also said he applied no tion, while three of his aides said it went cross-examination by sen-Lance said that in a rural bank maintained certain corresoponednt pressure on federal officials to should be reopened. ators. overdrafts were accepted practice accounts as compensating balances terminate the agreement with the The Justice Department cur­
Lance's Senate interrogators re-because the bank personnel knew to help me secure personal loans," Calhoun bank and end an investi-rently is investigating Lance's use peatedly pressed the Carter admin-the customers. The bank suffered he said. ''It is said that I used gation of his campaign finances of bank owned aircraft. Lance said istration budget director to explain only minor losses, he said. depositors' money in the banks just before his selection as budget he sold his personal plane to the the overdrafts he and his family What the comptroller's report which I was an officer for my own director. National Bank of Georgia . and once had on their checking failed to point out, Lance said, was personal benefit in order to obtain The comptroller's office referred continued using it but primarily for accounts at the Calhoun, Ga., that he also had funds on deposit in more favorable oans from the the case to the Justice Department, bank business. He said he paid for National Bank and the allegation the bank in other accounts. correspondent banks. There is no but the department closed its books personal trips on the plane. that he had once pledged the same The Senate committee has said it truth to this charge." on the case Dec. 2, a day before Lance testifies again today and collateral for two loans. was kept in the dark about many of Lance also denied allegations Lance's nomination wa" an-oossibly tomorrow. 


While Lance was on Capitol Hill Lance's banking problems at his that he pledged the same collateral 
1 to tell his side of the story, confirmation hearings. twice for separate loans at two Presiden Carter said at the White Lance said that he had told banks. House that he is keeping .an open committee investigators on Jan. 13 Such practices are common, but mind about his friend's future: about the personal overdrafts and a 
The President told a meeting of punitive agreement the comptroller broadcast news directors that he had imposed on his bank to stop the SMC United Wayhas no reason to believe Lance is practice. "dishonest, incompetent, or that Lance complained his rights had 
goa/$1000
he has acted unethically." Carter been damaged by the charges and said he will make a decision on· the disclosures. "In the process, the The annual St. Mary's Collegefuture of his budget chief after the rights that I thought that, I United Way Campaign will beginSenate hearings are completed. possessed have, one by one, gone Tuesday with a door-to-door fund­
Carter said that if he believed all down the drain," he said. raising drive in the five residence of the allegations published or As an example, Lance referred to halls. St. Mary's goal this year is broadcast against Lance, "I would a report Sept. 5 in the Atlanta 
~ have discharged him immedi-· Journal and Constitution which ately." said Billy Lee Campbell, who was Carter said he knows some of the convicted of embezzling money accusations against Lance are form the Calhoun bank, had told false. "Those that prove to be committee, investigators that correct, I will have to make. a Lance was also implicated. judgment on them, " Carter said. Carter said he has not watched or 
Conference with Carter

read the Lance testimony. But he said he will study the hearing record later. 
Lance, beginning what promised to be several days of intensive examination, started the day by meeting with Carter at the White House at 6:30 .a.m. EDT, almost four hours before the Senate hear' ings began. A Carter aide said the meeting was "primarily for the President to wish him well.'' 
t Overdrafts not unusual 
In his tesitmony, Lance said repeatedly that the liberal over­draft policy of the Calhoun bank. was applied to all customers, not just the Lance family. The practice was stopped after it was criticized by bank examiners. 
Sen. Charles H. Percy (R-Ill.) pressed Lance for his interpretation of a note he signed pledging stock in the National Bank of Georgia ·as 
collateral for a $2.6 million loan from Manufacturers Hanover Trust Co. of New York. Lance subse­quently pledged a 10 per cent dividend on that stock as collateral for a loan from Chemical Bank of New York. 
Lance responded that he and Manufacturers Hanover had dis­agreed over the status of the dividend and that he resolved the matter by repaying the loan and getting back his collateral. 
Lance, saying that he intends to remain on the job, asked the American people to be "the jury in this proceeding, "a hearing before the Senate Governmental Affairs Committee. 
Lance told the Senate hearing that he has been shocked and disappointed at the accusations he has faced. 
Lance personally ran up over­drafts of as much as $26,000, while 
U
clubs and organizations NEED $$$'s FROM STUDENT GOVERNMENT?? 
r 
I'\ you must attend & submit 
$1000. • ............ •·•·• ••••••••••••••••• One annual campaign eliminates • TIMM PARTY STORE e 
the need for fund drives for the 34 • • service agencies United Way sup-• • ports. St. Mary'sbenefitsindirect-.OPEN: MON-SAT 9 am-11 pm. Iy from United Way through sev-• SUND Y •·•· 
era! service agencies: the Catholic. A 12 noon -11 pm • Social Services, day-care centers,• 
BEER SALE •

Comminity Coordinated Child Car• • (4-C), the Family and Children's 11 • Center, the Mental Health Center,• and the Voluntary Action Center. e 3114 S. 11 ST. NILES, MICHIGAN: 
The campaign will last three• • days, ending Thursday. A plaque• 1 Block North of state line on U.S. 31 • 
will be awarded to the hall raising 11 • • e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e • • • • • • • • the most money per number of::!!.:1!!1!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~.... students. 
Off-campus students should do­nate at the front desk of the hall of their choice. 
12 inch SUBMARINES SANDWICHES

JULIO'S 
SPAGHETTI DEEP D1SH

SPAGHETTI half full & REGULAR 
With sauce 1.65 2.20 
PIZZA

With meatballs 1.85 2.50 
PIZZA 
12 in.14 in 

Cheese 2.55 3.05 Sausage 3.10 3.95 
Mushroom 3.10 3.95 232-7919 Pepperoni 3.10 3.95 
913Y2 LWW

Green Pepper 3.10 3.95 Ground Beef 3.10 3.95 _South Bend 
Ham 3.10 3.95 Onion 3.10 3.95 Anchovy 3.1 o 3.95 
18368 St. RD 23 ACROSS FROM DISTILLERY Next to Fox Deluxe Fri. Nite 5 :00-? 
Cedar-Cottage Productions 

\1.....lbudgets to board ofgovernance Black Olive 3.10 3.95 
•delivery fee

(Cheese plus any 2 items) 3.50 4.45 
$.75 plus tax

meetin (Cheese ~)Ius any 3 items) 3.90 4.95 Cheese olus any 4 items) 4.30 5.45
TH . 22 PM 
Pan Pizza $1.00 extra 
-regina basement 

DELIVERY WITH OUR PORTABLE OVENS
ANSWERS! MARY 4357 


Arson rises as Americans_attempt to 'cash in' 
NEW YORK [AP]Americans are intentionally burning down their own buildings at an increasing rate in an effort to "cash in" when they're in financial trouble, insur­ance officials said. 
"Arson is a negative economic indicator," said Gene Dacson, vice president of the Insurance Informa­tion Institute. "During times of an economic downturn, we always have an upturn in arson claims." 
"We estimate that eleven per cent of all the fire losses are attributable to arson," Kacson said. "Arson has grown over the last several years. But during periods of bad economic condi­tions. arson does rise." 
The Insurance Service Offices, a statistical organization, reported that fire in the United States caused an estimated loss of $310 million in July, the latest month for which figures are available. That was 35 million, or 12.7 per cent, higher than July 1976. 
The figure, which includes both insured and uninsured losses, brought to nearly $2.3 billion the total estimated fire loss through the first seven months of the year,up from about $2.1 billion in the period in 1976. 
Arson "tends to be commercial rather than personal," Kacson said. 
If they were residences, they would be apartment houses, more than single family dwellings," he said. "People very seldom burn down their own homes. We just don't find that occurs very often. It only happens sometimes when someone wants to sell their house and can't. 

"If people have structures that are not useful in an economic sense, there may be an inducement to cash in," Kacson said. Secondly, some people may find expenses are high and will use arson as a way of getting out from under a negative situation. 
"In general, this fact is ac­cepted by police, fire and govern­ment officials," he said. "During difficult business cycles we will fino warehouse fires at a higher level than during prosperous times." 
Kacson said insurance compan­ies don't pay claims "when it's obviously arson" but that in many cases "it is very hard to tell". 
Industry spokesmen also say that 
Irish faile.d and their meet was rained out. [Photo
Members of the rowing team check the skies for 

by Doug Christian] 
sings of a break in the weather, but the luck of the an estimated 1,000 people are arson "has been growing at an killed in deliberately set fires each absolutely staggering rate. year. "In 1964, we had 30,900 cases of 

Paul Sawin, spokesman for the arson," he said. "In 1975, we had National Fire Protection Associa­144,100 cases. The property loss in tion in Boston, a non-profit organi-'64 was $68.2 million. In '75 it was zation that gathers statistics and $633.9 million. That's quite a provides information on fires, said jump." 
·,._ 

There are enough opportunities In the Navy to give every woman officer the chance to become a valuable, contributing member of the team. These are hard-wroklng jobs, rich In personal satisfaction. 
From the beginning you will find ourself functioning In tw, roles, as a junior executive m"'ffl-bs a naval officer. To blend these roles successfully will require you to exercise self-discipline, flexibility, tenanclty, Intelligence, motivation and total confidence In your own ability. 
Becoming a naval officer will secure for you a position of responsibility at the management level. You will be accepted as an active member of the decision-making team, trained and expected to lead. 
A Navy Offlc er Representative will be in South Ben on 
J 

September 20, 21, and 22. To obtain further Information or to schedule and Informal interview, call collect 317-269-6197. 
Minimum wage raised 
WASHINGTON [AP] The House beat back attempts yesterday to require a lower minimum wage for teen-agers and then passed legisla­tion that will raise the nation's wage floor to $2.65 an hour in January. 
The measure will also boost the minimum wage to $3.05 by 1980 -a 75 cent increase over the current $2.30 hourly minimum. 
About 3.1 million of the nation's 90 million workers are paid the current minimum wage. 
The bill passed 309-96, sending it to the Senate where a similar bill has been approved in committee. 
House Speaker Thomas P O'Neill broke a tie vote on the ~:ontroversial business-backed pro­posal to pay youths only 85 per cent of the minimum wage for-their first six months on the job.$ 
The sub-minimum wage amend­ment failed, 211-21. Even without O'Neill's vote his first since becom­ing speaker last January the amendment would. have failed on a tie vote. 
Under the House passed measure, the $2.30 hourly mini­mum wage would go to $2.65 an hour in January, $2.85 in January 1979 and $3.05 in 1980. Labor lobbyists said this 75 cent hike would be the single largest in­crease in the minimum wage ever to pass Co~ress. 
Before finally approving the bill, the House voted 221 to 183 to adopt an amendment by Rep.J.J.Pickle (D-Tex) to exempt 3.8 million workers from coverage under the minimum wage act. The Pickle amendment raised the exemption 
under the act for companies making $250,00 or less in annual fiales to those making less than

I 
$500,00 a year.I Earlier, the House defeated two other key labor proposals to auto­I matically increase the minimum 
L 
wage annually by 53 per cent of the 
average factory worker's wage and 
to scale down the so 
called tip credit which lets 
employers pay tipped workers only 
half the minimum wage. 
The sub-minimum wage for 
youth would have been a special 
wage below the prevailing mini­
mum for adults. 
The vote against automattc in­creases in the minimum wage was 223-193. In taking that vote, the House agreed to a proposal by Rep. John Erlenborn, (R-Ill.) to limit scheduled increases to $2.85 in 1979 and to $3.05 in 1980 instead of $2.89 and $3.15 as favored by organized labor and . the Carter administration. 
The House accepted by a 264-161 margin the Republican amendment to continue to let employers pay half the minimum wage to em­ployees who receive tips. Labor had wanted to scale down the so-called "tip credit" that em­ployers can take out of the hourly minimum wage to no more than $1 by 1980. 
Shoo fly-ash 
HAMMOND, In. [AP]-North-ern Indiana Public Service Co. (NIP SCO( said yesterday it can't totally stop seepage from the utility's fly-ash settling basins but it will try to reduce the runoff to protect the adjacent Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore. 
A utility oficial said stopping the seepage completely would cause ponds within the lakeshore park to dry up. ft also would require disposing of surplus water in the ash basins in another manner, possibly by dumping in Lake Michigan. 

*The Observer 


Irish nine ready for opener 
[continued from page 20] players. It also might help some younger players who have never faced college competition." 
"I'd like to experiment a little bit with a lot of different lineups, and by the end of the fall have a pretty good idea of what our lineup will look like this spring." 
As far as improving upon last spring's 17-26 won-loss mark, Kelly pointed out the need for stronger pitching. "We'll let the starters go for a while Saturday if they feel good, but we'll make ·· changes quickly if they're having" trouble because we've got plenty of 
pitching available with only one ·. doubleheader scheduled this week ­t end." I Kelly said that he'd like to get a I look at some other pitchers, espe-
I. dally freshmen Bob Barjett and
l Mike Deasy, who have caught his 1 eye so far. 
One other area Kelly plans to emphasize is defense. "Early last year we gave away too many runs. You can't give a good college team four outs an inning and expect to beat them too often." 
Sports talk shows aired on WSND 
Sports Extra, the talk show that 
reviews the major sports stories 
from the previous week, will be 
aired tomorrow night at 6:30 p.m. 
The show's cohosts are Monte 
Towle and John O'Connor and the 
program can be heard on WSND, 
640 on the AM dial. 
Speaking of Sports, with cohosts 
Ted Robinson and Paul Hess, will 
feature Paul Stevenson, Observer 
Sports Editor, with a report on the 
Mississippi game, this Sunday 
night at 10 p.m. on WSND. 
tba obsal'Yer... 1S. 

Tim Bourret · 
·odds and Ends 
This will be Notre Dame's sixth meeting with an SEC school... The Irish are 4-1 overall, registering a 3-0 ledger with Alabama and a 1-1 mark with LSU... Joe Montana 'has moved up to a tie with Gary Forystek for the number two quarterback spot behind Rusty Lisch in the signal-calling derby ... Notre Dame's triumph over Pitt is the subject of a feature story in SPORTS ILLUSTRATED this week ...If you have trouble obtaining a copy at the normal local newstands call Dave Reeve·, he mayhave a few extra copies ... Carleton College and St. Olaf College, both of Northfield, Minn. play this Saturday in what is billed as the first metric football game. 
The 100-yard length of the field will become 100 meters (109 yards) and the width 53 meters (58 yards). 
In the program the players weights and heights will be given in kilograms and centimeters ... Satur­day's clash between the Rebels and Irish is the first of a scheduled two game series. The rematch is set for South Bend in 1985. However the two schools will not have to wait long for another athletic endeavor. Mississippi opens the Notre Dame basketball schedule this November 26 in the ACC... Mississippi punter Jim Miller has 18 50-plus yard punts in his 13-game career. 
Alabama gained 465 yards against the Rebels last Saturday, including 190 yards through the air ... Alabama's Jeff Rutlege hit seven of eight passes on the day against the Rebel secondary that lost all four starters from last year's team.. After tomorrow's game, the Irish will have their defensive 
Bone's Briefs 
secondary tested five weeks in succession by some ofthe country's finest quarterbacks. On September 24, the Irish will face freshman sensation Mark Herman of Purdue who completed 20 passes in his college debut last Saturday against Michigan State. 
In the home opener Notre Dame will face the leadir..g passer in the Big 10 in 1976, Ed Smith. He set almost every Spartan throwing record last season. In the next game, the Irish secondary· must contend with Leamon Hall· who led the Cadets to an easy victory over Massachusettes last Saturday by firing an Army record five touch­down passes. On October 22, USC and Rob Herterl come t{) South Bend followed by Navy and Rob Leszczynski, who threw 45 times 
. against Notre Dame last year. 

NOTICE 
Come One, Come All! Yes folks, the first Saturday Rec. at Logan Center has finally arrived! The ND/SMC Council for the Retarded's first Rec. is this Saturday, Sept. 17 form 9:00a.m. till 11:30 a.m. We hope to see you all there bright and early! If you have any questions feel free to call Jeanne Conboy 284-4391 or Art 
Koebel 287-7509. 
Need ride to Bloomington Ind. (IU) this weekend (or any weekend) . Call Vicki 6751. 
Gay Community of N.D.Infollne 8870 Fri. and Sat. 11}.12 p.m. 
Gay Community of N.D. Guide to N.D./S.b. Pandoras or Box 206 N.D. 
Sewing repairs. Reasonable. Call 8051. 
Typing reasonable rates. Call 8051. 
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND Student loans $2Q-$150. 1day wait. 1% interest due in 30 days. LaFortune Basement. M-F 11:15-12:15. 
Any desiring photos of Linda Ronstadt taken in concert Monday, Aug. 29 (color or black/white) please contact John at 8340 or 136 Zahm. 
contact lens wearers. Save on brand name hard and soft lens supplies. Send for free Illustrated catalog. Contact Lens Supplies, Box 7453, Phoenix Arizona 85011. 
FOR RENT 

Country House for rent for 1to 3students 10 minutes from NO campus. Phone 277-3604 
LOST AND FOUND 

Lost: Seiko Watch somewhere between Senior Bar & Fisher Hall. Reward Call 283-1928 
LOST: 3 keys at South Quad picnic Friday. Reward. Call 7957. 
LOST: Pair of brown glasses. Lost in South Dinig Hall on 9/8/77 Call Kinny at 232-9140. 
Lost a round decorative pin, between Walsh & Farley and the North Dining Hall. 
FOUND:Set of keys in Observer Office. Come to claim. 
Lost wallet with ID Saturday night between Engineering Auditorium and Grace Hall. Useless to anyone else. Call Tom 6713 Reward. 
Found: on sidewalk 1976 Holy Cross Preparatory class ring. Call Denise · 4-5402 
Foumt ladies watch at Rockne. CAll 1313. 
LOST:Silver cross pen with Initials PAJ near bookstore. Call 8798. 
Lost '76 class ring Brother Rice High School, Chicago Initials RSR. Call Bob 8707. A modest reward is offered. 
WANTED 
Need tour Gen. Ad. tickets USC prefer­ably together. Call Rick 8688. 
Need 1 ticket for any home game except Navy. Call Mark 1609. 
Wanted: 1girl to share house. Call FrBRI 
234-2720. 
Two guys need ride to south Chicago ­Sept. 23. Call1720 or 7449. 
Desperately need 2-6 Mich. Stste tickets. Call Bob 3301. 
Will Trade 4 blondes for 4 USC or Mich. State. Tix . Call Pat 272-5843. 
Need 10-20 G.A. tickets to any home game. Willing to pay$$$. Call 1212 or 1197. Ask for Bob. 
Wanted: a BW Tv and a bicycle in good condition. CAll: 288-3073. 
Need 4gA tickets to Mich. State. Oct. 1 Call Meg 4-4046. Will pay $$. 
Filthy Rich Aunt from California requires 4 G.A. tix for USC. Money no object! Call Tim at 1605. 
I need 2 tix to Mich. State. Call Russ at 8772 
Need 1studfent or GA ticket to Air Force Game. Pay good $$$. Call 8207 
1A GA Purdue Tix. Call 232-5926. In evenings 2811-6115 
Needed desperately : 2 GA tickets tor Michioan State. Call Tom 287-3987 Good Bucks1 
Part-time waitress' must be 21. Apply In person to Plnocchlo's Pizza Parlor. Georgetown shopping Center. Only 4 minutes away. Ask for Jackie. 
Kitchen help part-time. Hourly wage. Apply in person. Pinocchio's Pizza Parlor. Georgetown Shopping Center. Only 4 minutes away. Ask for Jackie. 
Wanted: six GA tickets to USC. Call Jeanne at 4-4001. 
Wanted: 4 tix to Michigan State. Call Mary Pat at 288-8235. 
I want to tra3e 4 Purdue-N D football tix for 4 ND-Michigan State Tix. Cal-l 277-3604 
Please I need four Miehigan tickets. Call Alicia 8117 
Desperately Aeed tickets to Michigan State and Southern Cal. Please caH Marianne at 1262. 

Wanted: 4 GA tickets for Southern Cal. Will Pay good bucks. Call 1423, ask for 
Mike. 

Wanted: Michigan State tickets-General admission, preferably. Will pay$. Call 4-4001 for Jeanne or Mo. · 
Desperately need 4 Georgie Tech tickets· call Bill 8792 
Wanted: 5USC tickets. Call Paul at 1424. 
Wanted: two tickets to Michigan State Game, either G.A. or Student Ticket. Call Mark 1436. 
Wanted: ticket tEl Mich Game. Will pay $$. Call Mike 289-8036. 
Wanted Anyone going near Blacksburg, Va. Desperately need ride any weekend. Will Pay$$$. Cal! Kathy 4-4287. 
Need tix to Purdue & USC games. Call John. 1196. 
Wanted: 1 or 2 GA Navy tickets. Call David 8697. 
Urgent! Need any number of Mich. State tix. Also need tix to any home game. Call Donna or Sue: 255-1147. 
Wanted: 2 to 4 USC tickets. Student or GA will pay money! Suzy 5148 
V2 N.D. students need Roomate to share house. 233-8855 or 283-3228. 
Needed: one small refrigerator either to rent or buy. Will Pay Good Money! Call 
4-4563. 

Urgently need a ride from Cleveland­Columbus -Toledo vicinity to NO sept. 18. Call Diane 7883. 
Need Six Southern Cal Tix. Mark. 287-7051 
Wanted: Hate your roommate? Move In with Us. near WestSide. $5D-75 per month. Utilities inc. 288-9614. 
Need 4 Michigan State Tickets. CAll Claire 289-6533 between 4&7. 
Desperately need 2 Michighan State tickets. Preferably GA. Will pay top$$. Call 8515 ask for Mark. 
One MSU student football ticket. Will pay $ $ $ ')money( laughs Call Mary 1313. 
PLEASE! Help a Senior impress his friends form home. I need 4 Michigan State tickdts aml will pay mucho. Call Geoff at 1083 anytime and keep trying. 
FOO*&AMES* ESCITEMENT* Have nothing to oo with the fact that I need 2 Michigan St. tickets, Ed 3443. 
Need student ticket to Mich. game. Will pay$$ call Lellfly 277-2397. 
Wanted: former boy scout or other interested person for Webelo (Cub scout leader. Call 272-8356 
Classified ads 
PERSONALSFriendships at Stake. Despe11tely need Michigan State tlx preferably student Ux. Good money. Steve 8337. 

Dear Fred, Happy Birthday.

Research Assistant Needed. Psychology Love Gingerbackground preferred. 1o-20 hours per week. Hours varied to suit your schedule. Hourly wage Call George 287-4785 a«er p.m. 
Stephanie, Je t'adore toujours. ·Doug

Wanted: 4 USC tickets. Will pOay good bucks. Call Jim at 1419. 
To Rosie and Mo-The best RA's we've ever had. Thanks

research assistant for everything. Love,Conduct historical research for Discovery Third North-Regina.
Hall Museum, Century Center. Prefer graduate student in history, American Studies or related field. Some prior Christopher Robin,research/museum experience desireable. 
What gives? Have you lost your way to the House on the corner?

20 hours per week for six to seven 
Pooh

months; $3.70/hour. Send resume by September 20,1977 to: Personnel, Attn: Discovery Hall 
Need ride to Bloomington, Ind. (I U) this

1200 County-City Building 
weaken (or any weekend) Call Vicki 6751.

South Bend, Indiana 46601. 
P.J.K. of Travis Decorating of Houston,HELP TRICIA (4-5222) get ride-Louisville even though you're just akid, Happy 21st9/23and 2 Michigan tickets. 

Birthday. The H.ood and the Straight. 

Two handsome Gentlemen need tickets for Purdue game. Call 1244. 
D. B. and Stanley Beware-vision of 334 Lewis is 19 and has never been royally raped! Have a HappyFOR SALE 

Birthday Chica! BW. 

FOR SALE -'72 Fiat 850 spider. New I really, really need a rice back to Notreengine and tires. Must sacrifice at $975 dame from Cleveland-Columbus-Toledo 
or best offer. Call 272-5327. 
vicinity on Sept. 18. Call Diane 7883. 

Sansui 7 receiver. Great Shape. 225.00 
alfdas "On Campus" Grand Opening

(?( V2-&1/-V2& AFTER#. 
Sale shoes, clothes, acces. Also: Frank Shorter Gear. Mon-Frl. 7-9 Call: 3078, 425 Fisher.

Corningware electric percolators (coffee pots) 50% off Call 6985. 
HEY MAN* YOU WANNA GET small with me tonlghtO$$FOR SALE: GUITAR1 OVATIJN A1 COUSTICE W/case, BARCUS BERRY PICKUP* LEATHER STRAP. BEST 

"Campus Ministry West-Offices ground

OFFER. WILL SACRIFICE. John 768 floor Baain--student operated 67:397687. 
-midnight study/socialize Sunday thru Thursday." 

Used golf balls like new $20.00/100 for more info call 272-0783. 
NOTRE DAME LACROSSE TEAM: MANDATORY PRACTICE-SATURDAV SEPT. 17 10:00 a.m. BE THERE!

'73 Vega 2-door inspected-Black and White. Call 234-5686 for more Informa­tion., 
ATTENTION ECONOMICS MAJORS! All invit'ld to picnic-Roon Sunday behind St. Joe Hall. See youlttere!

SL-1500 Technics direct-drive turntable w cartridge 8 mos. old. Mick 2743. 
PARTY TONiuHT: once again 1014 St. Louis tosses a pre-game victory bash.

Harmon Kardon, Advent, lmpro Stereo 9:00 till gametime for diehards.
system. excellent receiver, speakers, turntable 400.00. Also Bauer Hockey 
Play Euker in the SMC Snack Bar-9/20,skates and CC M Figure skates 25.00 

21, 22 8-10 p.m. Prizes.

each. Call 219-936-4626. 
.....·~ 
Hammer-. The chicken soup didn't work. Got anyStella 10 gear bike Columbus Alloy 

brighter i~ees? ;,:, .

tubing. excetltn touring bii<e 24V2 lbs. B . . 200.00 Call 219-936-4626. 
DENISE P. HOGAN Full of biflh sentence, but abit obtuse;Richelieu Sanjo, 5 string Wisconsin At times, indeed, almost ridiculous.:.

made-by hand Left hand picker at Almost, at times, the fool.
$200.00 steal w case. Call 219-936-4626. 
Chemise LaCost mem11ers 

EnvoyT.V.16in. BlakcandWhitewith iriside antenna! 50.00. Call 219-936-4626. 

.. :·. 
.. 
Friday, September 16, 1977
20 the observer 

Gtidders await combat with Rebels 
by Bone Bourret Hell Notre Dame" bumper stickers oblivious to the very boisterous leading passer with a 63.6 comple-and Bob Grefseng a second team Sports Writer (the only sticker in the south that crowd. Th~ fans in Mississippi tion percentage. In 1976, he all-SEC selection two years ago outsells Colonel Sanders' finger-consider this contest more than a completed only 25 percent of his have few peers at the defensive 
In 1971, the last time Notre lickin' chicken bumper stickers) game. It will be along the lines of a aerials. The turn-around is es-flanks in the SEC. 
· Dame travelled south to face a· with a solid chance at a major bowl religious crusade. pecially amazing considering he hit But Notre Dame's defensive Southeastern Conference team, and left an emotionally and physi-The Billy Graham of the Rebels only three of 14 passes and was ends have no peers anywhere in the they were blitzed before a national cally beaten team. football program is Ken Cooper, no intercepted five times in his only country Ross Browner and Willie in his third season as Mississippi's start last year against a mediocre Fry sh~uld be very active this ~cad _coac~. He_ made m~ny Tennesse~ club. Saturday as the veer offense fea­movattve, 1f not nsky, coachmg Coopers greatest weapon may tures the option play. Pittsburgh's changes last spring. The most be punter Jim Miller. The SEC's ground attack ran away from significant was the installation of a leading punter in 1977 carries a Browner and thus he did not look veer formation offense, the attack 48.4 yeard average into the Notre that active. But, this Saturday 
' 

that m~de Tony .Dorse~t a Iegen~. Dame contest.. Las! Saturday h~ Ross should make some headway in Consistent w1th th1s offensiVe booted seven times m the ~ebels the Heismann Trophy race as he 
j

change, Co?per ch~se Bobby Garn-34-.14 loss to Alabama, fiVe of will have many opportunities to er to be h1s starting quarterback wh1ch exceeded the 50-yard mark. decapitate Garner and the rest of earlier this fall. Garner's selecti?n The bare-footed hooter came ?ut ?f the Rebels backs. i forced three-year letterman T1m nowhere last year to rank th1rd m . . Ellis to the bench. Ellis had a fine the conference as a freshman with Overall, the Insh are still tela­season in 1976, quarterbacking the a 40-plus yard average. His tively injury !tee. T~rry Euric~ will Rebels to upset victories over accomplishments in 1976 included m~ke the tri~ ~esp1te su~enng a 
I 

Georgia and Alabama. He was the a school record 82 yard rocket shot pamful back m~ury o_n h1s touch­leading percentage passer in the against South Carolina. do~n burst agamst Pittsburgh. If SEC in 1975 and had a reputation Defensively, the Rebels are led ~unck cannot. perform, freshman for being an excellent reader of by junior Eddie Cole and J1m Stone w!ll back up Vagas 
I 

varying defensive alignments. second team all-SEC performer Ferguson at one of the halfback But, Cooper has decided to empha-Kern Coleman. They have reco:·d-slots. size the running game. ed 28 and 26 tackles, respectively The game will be televised 
Leading the Rebs' ground game this year. Cooper's defensive ends locally on WNDU televison. Kick­has been James Storey, who is best are both under 220 pounds, but off is slated for 1:30 p.m. preceed­known for his blocking ability. The have exceptional quickness, ed by a pre-game show with Tom Ripley, Miss. native has gained 143 George Plasketes, a letterman Dennin at 1 p.m. yards and averaged 4.6 yards a carry in Mississippi's first two contests. He gained 101 yards in 
Irish set for fall campaign

the Rebs 7-3 victory over Memphis State two weeks ago. "Fast by Craig Chval College in a twin-bill starting at 1Dave Reeve performed under pressure against Pitt and will be relied Freddie" Williams will join Storey Sports Writer p.m. Senior Don Wolfe will draw on in Mississippi should the Irish offense stall within field goal range. 
in the backfield. He has gained the first starting assignment of the television audience by Louisiana Tomorrow the Irish will face yardage at a 6.1 yards per carry clip Those who have watched their season, while senior Joe Leahy will State. The 1971 Irish, who were another southeastern conference and has not been dropped for a favorite major league baseball hurl the nightcap. Wolfe will be also ranked number-one in the foe. Notre Dame is about as loss. Southeastern Conference teams drift into oblivion with the attempting to regain his form of country at the season's outset, popular in the Southern States as observers .feel he has unlimited advent of autumn take heart, 1976, when he posted a 6-3 record were destroyed by Bert Jones, General Grant and Mississippi is potential. because Notre Dame's nine will to go along with a sparkling 2.97 Andy Hamilton and company. The no exception. To rack up its second Ironically, Garner has been more start from scratch with their fall ERA Irish had entered Baton Rouge, victory Dan Devine's club will have effective as a passer in the first two season tomorrow. Dr. Tom Kelley, who completed which was plastered with "Go to to be at an emotional high and be contests. He is presently the SEC's The Irish will host Spring Arbor his second season as head coach of Paul Stevenson =::;:;:;:;:;:;::===:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=::;::=:=:=:::=:=:=:=:::=:=:=:::=:=::;::=:=:=:=:::===::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;::=:=:::=:=:=:=::;:;:;:;::=:=====:=====:=:=:=:=======:::=:=:=:=:===:=:::=:====:::;:;:;:;:;::======::======·:=:=:=::;:;:::;:;::=:=:=:::===:=:::=:=='============:=======:::=:=======:=:=:::== the Irish last spring, will pencil in a 
scorecard that will include four seniors. in addition to Wolfe. Greg Weston wil open at first

The Irish Eye 
base, and he will be joined by a 
facci, and Bill Starr. DeFacciThe college football schedule moves into its second big week, with score probably will not be as lopsided as USC takes this confrontation by batted .259 with a pair of homers in another slate of major games set. Last week, Nebraska slipped from the 21. Bouret finds the Trojans a winner by 53. 

the spring, while Bader knocked inranks of the powerhouses, losing to Washington State. Meanwhile, the Dartmouth vs. Princeton: The Big Green should have a good chance to a dozen runs with a .218 averageIrish were battling in Pittsburgh with the returning National Champions. capture the Ivy League crown, if they beat Yale at mid-season. Princeton for the 1977 Irish. 

UCLA lost its opener to the hands of the Cougars down in Houston, but will not be the team that prevents them from their quest. So, give the Junior Rick Pullano will anchorprobably the biggest suprise was the way Oklahoma whipped Vanderbilt Battle to Dartmouth by 13. Bourretbacks Princeton by 6. 
the infield from his shortstopby a 25-23 mark. Michigan State vs Washington State:Both of these teams are coming off position. The Skokie, II., nativeFor those of you that were looking for the Yale vs. Brown and victories. The Cougars downed Nebraska last Saturday 19-10, while the hit a hefty .344 during his sopho­

Dartmouth vs. Princeton scores in the Sunday morning paper, my Spartans defeated Purdue 19-14. This will definitely be a good game. The He led the Irish by
more season.

apologies. Thoses openers for the Ivy League are tomorrow. contest will be played in East Lansing, giving the Spartans the home field playing in all 43 spring games, andCollege football always provides the unexpected, however, another edge. However, the Cougars downed the Cornhuskers on the road also with 30 runs scored. Pullano attempt will be made to predict this weekend's results. So, with the showing they are capable of playing well away from home. If Washington fanned just eight times in 131assistance of the legendary Bone Bourret, here are the Irish Eye's picks State is not too high from last weekend's victory, they should come out on official at-bats.
for tomorrow. top by 3. Bourret picks MSU by 2. 
A pair of juniors will round outNotre Dame vs. Mississippi: Last week the Irish demonstrated that their Arkansas vs. Oklahoma State: This should be an interesting matchup with the infield for Kelly. Bob Cleary,defense is as strong as ever. On the other side, the offense has not Arkansas' Ben Cowins, the Southwest Conference's leading rusher in from Birmingham, Ml, will manproduced as expected. However, the offense has had their game to break 1976, stacked up against Terry Miller, a Reisman Trophy candidate, from third base, while Tom Caruso willinto the new season and the opening game jitters should be gone and Oklahoma State. The game will be played in Little Rock, giving an edge to combine with Pullano to form thetiming and synchronization should be present. The Rebels the Razorbacks. Oklahoma State does not have much depth at line as well

were Irish double-play combination. 
embarassed last weekend by the Crimson Tide and will be ready for the as experience to open holes for Miller. The contest will be tight, but give Sophomore Dan Voellinger willnorthern boys to invade the south. The weather will be a key factor. the battle to the Razorbacks by 7. Bourret goes with Arkansas by 6. 
be trying to fill the shoes ofShould the weather in Jackson be warm, the Irish may tire. Mississippi Duke vs. Michigan:The Wolverines are on the move once again this graduated academic AU-Americawill definitely be up for their first meeting with the Irish, however, Notre season as they hold the number-one position in both the UPI and AP polls. 

Tim Pollock behind the plate. As aDame will be ready to battle. Spectators will note an improvement in the The Blue Devils should not be the team that takes their ranking away as designated hitter and understudyoffense as the Irish take this contest by 14. Bourret supports Notre Dame Michigan should coast to an easy victory. Seeing that the game will be to Pollock, Voellinger hit .255, with by 6. played at Michigan, the Wolverines will have to pile on the points to five round-trippers and 23 RBI's.

Air Force vs. California: The Golden Bears defeated Tennessee last impress the home crowd. So, give the contest to the Wolverines by 30. 
Freshman Jim Montagano hasSaturday handing this writer his only loss in predictions last week. This Bourret sees Michigan a victor by 31. 

been impressive during practicetime California gets the edge, so they better not let me down. The Air Kansas vs. UCLA:The Bruins will be trying to make a comeback from their and should see considerable action Force tied Wyoming last Saturday, 0-0. The academy returned 16 loss against Houston this past Monday night. The Jayhawks always seem during the double-header.

starters, however, it's the quality of the personnel that matters.California to have an upand down squad. Tomorrow they will probably be down as 
Another freshman, Mike

should be able to give their home town fans a victory, so give the game to UCLA heads for their first triumph by 14 points. Bourret backs the Bruins Jamieson of Detroit, MI, is threat­the Golden Bears by 13. Bourret goes with Cal by 16. by 14. 
ening to crack the starting outfield. 

Yale vs. Brown: This game looks like a rerun. The prediction will be the Maryland vs. West VIrginia: The Mountaineers lost to Maryland 24-3 last "He's a realgood-looking freshman, same as last week. Although Brown gave the Bulldogs their only loss last season. This contest will be played in the Terrapins homeland, but West and he will definitely play Satur­year, it will be pretty difficult for them to repeat that performance. Yale Virginia can taste an upset. Maryland may have had a great season last day," Kelly statedwill not want to share their Ivy League crown for two straight seasons, so year, but tomorrow the contest will go to the Mountaineers by a three The Irish skipper plans to varygive the matchup to the Bulldogs by 7. Bourret backs Yale by 12. point margin. Bourret follows West Virginia by 7. · his lineup throughout the fall andDllnols \'S. Missouri: Because of Illinois'superb performance last Georgia Tech vs. Miami: This contest will be held in Atlanta, a place Saturday's second game will be noweekend, the Wolverines were able to capture the number one ranking in where the Irish did not fair well last season. Miami will be coming off exception. The infield will tenta­the UPI poll, a position which they stole from the Irish. Meanwhile, their 10-0 defeat to the hands of Ohio State last weekend. Were they that tively read Giles Korzenecki, Da\'eMissourilost to USC, allowing the Trojansto follow Michigan in second good a team or are the Buckeyes over-rated? This game may give an Bartish, Ray Kalusa and Dave"'\ place. Missouri always seems to come up with an upset, however last answer. But for now, the choice goes with the Hurricanes by 2. Bourret Smith, from third to first. Due to ·~·'-Saturday was just not their day. Tomorrow should be a different story as goes with the Yellowjackets by 1. 
inclement weather, the outfield''tle Tigers should take the Illini by 10. Bourret follows Missouri by 8. Minnesota vs. Ohio State: This game may be a great time for the Buckeyes picture is still clouded, but Kelly

AI.Wama vs. Nebraska: Last year this may have been quite a battle. This to lose. They were not impressive last Saturday and could falter against a to juggle his as
promises lineup seas·~ Nebraska is going to have a tough time, Meanwhile down in strong Gopher team tomorrow. But, that will not be known until much as possible.

Birmi~am, Bear Bryant is covering up another 'Barna sensation. This tomorrow afternoon. For now, give the clash to OSU by 7. Bourret backs "Of course, we'd like to do assquad could recover the Southeastern Conference Championship that they the Buckeyes by 10. 
well as we could,'' Kelly said of the discarded l~eason. This game is at Nebraska and Cornhusker fans Upset of the Week: upcoming season, "but we'd also cannot believe ·t~r team lost to Washington State last weekend. The Penn State vs. Houston: This could be quite a victory for Joe Paterno's like to get a look at a lot of game will be clos~cause of the strong support Cornhusker fans always gridders if they can pull it off. The Nittany Lions have had 14 days to ballplayers. Since Wl have opengenerate, however, the game should go to the Tide by 12. Bourret sees prepare for this contest, while the Cougars have only had five, since they

.. tryouts and most of the kids are 
'Barna by 3. played UCLA last Monday. The game is on Penn State's home turf. so, here on their own (without schoiar­Oregon State vs. Southern Cal: This game is going to be played in the gjve Paterno and his men a victory by 6. Bourret backs Houston by 15. 
ship), the fall. season gives us aBeaver's home stadium. The Trojans defeated Oregon State last season Last Week's Record: chance to get a longer look at someby a mere 56-0, however, that was after their opening game loss to 11 wins and one defeat, for 92 percent. Guest picker; Bob Keen. nine [continued on page 19]Missouri. The Trojans should not have any problems this year, but, the correct and three wrong for 75 percent. 










