

server 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's
Vol. XI, No. 116 
Thursday, April 21, 1977 

Blacks protest 'racist ' attitudes 
by Mike Lewis Staff Reporter and Patrick Cole Special Projects Editor 

Concerned black student sent letters yesterday to members of the. Notre Dame faculty and admini­stration complaining of "racist" attitudes and actions. 
Undertrepresentation of· black students and a lack of commitment to affirmative action prqgrams are the groups primary concerns.. They have charged that Notre Dame Is SO percent behind on affirmativ.e ac-. tion programs and "that less than · 
2.S percent of Notre DaJile's total . enrollment is black. · 
Other grievances cited by the concerned black students are inad­equate coverage . of the Black Cultural Arts Festival in the year­book, discriminatory acts against the Notre Dame Gospel Choir and violation of the cheerleading consti­tution during cheerleader tryouts. 
The group also questioned the motives and attitudes behind the suggestion to move the site of the Black Cultural Arts Center picnic and the assignment to a remote end · of the North Dining Hall for all but one of the minority students serv­ing for the Campaign for Notre Dame kick-off dinner. 
The students have demanded that University President Fr. Theo­dore Hesburgh meet with them to discuss these complaints. 
Hesburgh received the letters late yesterday afternoon. Before he was able to review all the com­plaints he stated, "If the students have legitimate complaints there should be something done about it." 
He also said that he had dealt with the complaints of the Gospel Choir, and that "the Choir will have a piano and a place to practice." 
Concerning reports of discrim­ination at the fund-raising dinner, Director of Food Services Edmund Price said, ''To some extent I think there is a misconception about what's going on. I've done some checking up on the complaints, and I don't know of any discrim­ination." 
Price also said that he had checked with the student co-ordin­ator who had made the assign­ments, and was assured that discrimination ", hadn't even entered his mind." 
"We take these things seriously because we employ many minority students. We strongly feel that we don't discriminate, and we won't tolerate any discriminatory ac­tions," Price added. 
William Cerney, chairman of the music department, voiced his dis­may about the "unfortunate" cir­cumstances surrounding the Gos­pel Choir. "I hope the situation will quickly come to a good solution and I think Fr. Hesburgh will address himself to the problem," he said. 
Br. John Benesh, student acti­vities director, stressed the positive action taken to make the cheerlead­ing trials fair. "After the difficulty we had in last year's trials we tried to bend over backwards to assure fair tryouts this year," he stated. Benesh also noted, "In my opinion the judging was done solely on ability." 
Assistant Director of Student Activities John Reid could not be reached for comment. 
Dean of Students James Roemer denied the charges made by the concerned black students that he ordered the site of the picnic be changed for the sake of the Board of Trustees. He suggested that "Holy Cross was the best place to have the picnic." . 
Roemer told The Observer last night that a student requested the picnic last Thursday afternoon at 4:~S p.m. between the towers, Grace and Flanner Halls--not on Wednesday· acording to the letter. Once the request was expressed in writing on Friday, Roemer told that he suggested the picnic be held by the baseball diamond near Holy Cross Hall. · 
"I think the Holy Cross location is a better spot," Roemer said, "It's next to the.lake, next to the Grotto, 'it has a backstop so the students could play basebalL I was just using my own background and experience. · 
Next, the picnic site of Holy 
·Cross had to be appr<,>Ved by Fr. George Wiskirchen, rector of Holy Cross: According to Roemer, Wis­kirchen said the picnic could be held there and that it "was no problem." 
''There was no sign of disagree­ment between us about the Holy Cross site," Roemer stated. "I thought that my help in making all the arrangements would make the students happy. Normally, I don't make th~ phone calls. But I called Wiskirchen. It was a complete surprise to me that the students complained. · 
Roemer further commented on the question of the University trying to prevent black students from "being visible" on campus. 
. "was I thinking of this decision in the context ofthe Board of Trustees meeting?" Roemer asked. "It is ridiculous to say we don't want black students to be where they are not visible. They're just as visible in the heart of campus. It's just my 
· inclination to say Holy Cross is the best place to have a picnic. Aesthetically, you couldn't find a better place on campus." 
Never has anyone asked for formal apprQval to have a picnic in 
· the Grace and Flanner area, Roem­er said. In Feb. 1976, The Black Cultural Arts Center sponsored a picnic in the vicinity of the towers. But Roemer said that picninc was never approved by him. He said when the students asked for the picnic, Assistant Director of Stu­dent Activities Reid made the arrangements. 
"He didn't say you have to go to the dean for approval,'' Roemer said. ''But I wasn't upset about it.'' 

. Mary Jane Anderson's car used to be a white Porche. [photo by Debbie Krilich] 
Gas leak caused car explosion 
by Jean Powley St. Mary's Editor  Anderson told security officers that she had previously had trouble with gas leaking from her car.  t with the highly volatile plastic, seat stuffing and leather upholstery caused the fire to burn out of  
_Since a Porsche's engine is in the  co~trol  for quite a while, Kovatch  
m1ddle  of  the  car  beneath  the  sa1d.  
The Tuesday afternoon explosion  passenger  compartment  and  the  Three  other  automobiles  were  
of a  Porsche belonging  to  Mary  gas  tank  is  in  the  front  of the  also slightly damaged byt he fire.  
Jane  Anderson,  a  .St.  Mary's  vehicle, Kovatch theorizes that the  One car's paint blistered, while the  
senior, in the LeMans parking lot has been tentatively attributed to a  gas leaked on an electrical short or on a hot part of the engine, igniting  other two cars' fenders were dam­aged.  
·gas leak, according to St. Mary's  the car.  This was the first such· car fire at  
SEcurity vatch.  Director  Anthony  Ko­ Anderson had recently filled the gas tank. The full tank, combined  St. Mary's in at least ten years, Kovatch said.  

'A thankless job' 

Carter: tax oU, big cars 
WASBINGTON (AP) ~ Presi­
dent Carter asked Congress 

last night to approve a national 
energy policy that raises prices . and taxes for energy and automo­biles to encourage conservation of 
vanishing resources. 

Carter told .the senators and 
congressmen, already divided by 
allegiance to different regions and 
interests, that he has learned why a 
comprehensive energy policy has 
not already been developed. 

"It is a thankless job," Carter 
said, "but it is our job, and I 
believe we have a fair, well-balan­
ced and effective plan to present to 
you." 

He urged enactment of legisla­
tion that WOlJid tax gas-guzzling 
autos anywhere from $449 for 1978 
low-mileage models up to $2,488 
for 198S. 

And he asked the lawmakers to 
approve a plan that would add 
about 7 cents a gallon to the cost of 
gasoline, fuel oil and other petrole­
um products by 1980 through a 
series of taxes on crude oil. 
Carter's program threatened fur­

ther gasoline taxes starting at S 
cents a gallon in 1979 and rising as 
high as SO cents a gallon if U.S. 

gasoline consumption is not held down. 
Carter emphasized that fairness was one of his chief aims and that "the energy industry should not reap large unearned profits" from the nation's energy crisis. 
"None of our people must make an unfair sacrifice. None should reap an unfair benefit,'' Carter said. 
He urged that "individual ac­counting be required from energy companies for production, refining, distribution and marketing--separj­ately for domestic and foreign operations. 
Carter said his program also would seek to soften its own impact on particular segments of the public. 
For example, he proposed using part of the Highway Trust Fund to compensate states for the revenue they will lose as declining gasoline consumption cuts into state gaso­line tax income. 
Carter's policies were aimed primarily at saving energy and developing the use of coal, nuclear power and solar energy. 
"We can never increase our production of oil and natural gas by enough to meet our demand," he said, in effect announcing the 
~-------------------------------------------­
Today is Gentle Thursday ..... 
An Tostal activities begin at 
12:30 today with the Trivia Bowl, which will be held in front of Alumni Hall. 
At 3 p.m. and S p.m. the Emmett Kelly Jr. Circus will perform at Saint Mary's. Admission is free. 
Fron 6:30 to 8:30 p.m. goldfish swallowing and a dunking booth will highlight the events to be held in front of O'Laughlin Auditorium. 
A ping pong ball drop is sched­uled for 4:4S p.m. over St. Mary's campus. A 21-and-over party will be held at the SMC Clubhouse tonight. 
Finally, the Mr. Campus contest will be held in Sorin Hall porch beginning at 9:30p.m. 

1 

...yesterday was Wicked Wednesday. (photo by Debbie Krilich] 
death notice of a centmy of petroleum-fueled growth. Earlier, a top-ranking Carter 

. aide said the average American's standard of living would not ·be lowered by the President's energy · package. 
The aide, who asked that he not be identified, told a standing-room audience of reporters that house-. holders who heat with fuel. oil would recieve direct rebate!>' of their extra fuel costs. · 
The rest of the revenues would be returned to the public largely through income tax credits. 
Carter's program offered no major concessions to the energy industries, which have been pres­sing for removal of federal price controls on oil and natural gas and the easing of clean air regulations that apply to the burning of coal. 
The officail said the administra­tion will not back off the clean air effort and said· the coal industry should face up to the technical problems. 
As for seeking higher profits as an incentive to production, the official said the present world oil price, about $13 per barrel,' is a "generous" incentive and any­thing higher might simply be windfall profits. 
Carter's program was already conroversial but the official expres­sed hope that the nation would take its energy problems seriously and adopt such nationai policies quick­ly. 

A White House statement said Carter's energy package would add about four-tenths of one per cent ot the annual inflation rate through · 1985 but would have "generally positive impacts on the economy." The inflation rate now is about 6 per cent a year. 
A White House "fact sheet" on these proposals said Carter's plan could save some 4.6 million barrels of oil daily by 1985, reducing oil imports to some 7 million barrels per day. This would be 40 per cent below the otherwise projected im­'port levels. 
2 

the observer 




----News Briefs----. 
·wars go better vti'ith Coke' 
W ASIDNGTON [AP] • President Mobutu Sese Seko of Zaire, a fancier ofthe finest French wines, has decided his troops' C-rations would go better with Coke. 
''You can't expect a soldier to fight on a Coke-less stomach,'' said one State Department spokesman. 
Government officials stressed that it;s a commercial deal between Zaire and Coca-Cola, and is not financed by the U.S. government in any way. 
Three gassed to death 
INDIANAPOLIS [AP] • The bodies of three perso111s, including a 2-year-old boy, were found here yesterday in an automobile trunk in which they had apparently been gassed to death, police said. 
~ext to the car, in his garage on the city's eastside, police also discovered the body of 62 year-old Melvin Carr. 
Detectives theorized Carr had locked the other three in the trunk and started the car's motor before succumbing to 1exhaust fumes himself when he returned later to check the condition of his victims. 

----On Campus Today--... 
8 am-5 pm workshop, "novel concepts, methods. and advanced• 
lpm 
3:30 & 
5:30pm 
4 pm 
4 & 7 pm 4:15pm 
7:30pm 
8pm 8:30pm 

technology in particulate-gas separation," cce, continues april 22. 
lecture, "the international economic crisis: a radical analysis," by nigel harris, center for urban studies, university college, london, author of beliefs in society, sponsored by the institue for international studies, area studies reading ro()m, memorial library. 
an tostal performance, emmet kelly, jr. circus, north west grounds, smc, admission $.50, nd/smc community free. 
lecture,"photoelectrochemical solar cellsc" by dr. adam heller, bell laboratories, murry hill, new jersey, sponsored by the radiation laboratory, conference room, radiation laboratory. 
film, "i'll quit tomorrow," audio-visual room, cce. 
ward phillips lecture, "rabbi barukh of nedzebozh, or hasidic grandeur," by elie wiesel, sponsored by the english department, library aud. 
lecture, "bishop john grandisson of e¥eter: patron of the arts," by dean porter, sponsored by the art department, nd art gallery. 
concert, spring choral concert, o'laughlin aud. 
ward phillips lecture, "rabbi naftali rapshitz, or hasidic laughter," by elie wiesel, washington hall. 
ND art gallery to exhibit Ambrosiana collection 
Copies of treasures in Milan's were used in the reproduction Ambrosiana, Europe's first public process. Included are 44 large, library, have been accumulated by: back-illuminate color transparan­the University over 14 years and cies, 19 black and white enlarge­and will be available for public ments, and 39 enlargements of viewing through June 13 at the 1 priceless drawings. Notre Dame art gallery. The The Notre Dame Ambrosiana Ambrosiana collection of Renais-Collection has been supported over sance and Medieval art opened the years by grants from the Sunday. Samuel H. Kress Foundation. Dr. 
Assembeld by Astrik Gabriel, Gabriel, director of the Folsom director emeritus of Notre Dame's Ambrosiana Collection, wrote the. 
Institute of Medieval Studies, the! .:ex:h:i:b:it~c:a:ta:lo:g~u:e~.-------.::===========~~~~ 
library's treasures include man­uscripts from Europe, the Middle East and North Africa. More than . two dozen wood sculptures dating , from the eleventh to fifteenth : centuries and owned by the Univer­sity will also be exhibited during the showing. 
The exhibited materials include master dra~ings\by such artists as Leonardo da Vinci, Albrecht Durer and Michelangelo. Subjects in­clude astronomy, geography, mil· itary history, fashion, drama, zo· ology, religion, travel, surgery and 



Chicagosuburbs to secede? 
CIDCAGO AP • Some of the wealthiest suburbs of Chic~o are mounting a campaign to split away from Cook County, which they say: collects their taxes, but denies them proper representation. 
Leaders of the sucessionist movement say the county, the nation's second most populous, is dominated by Chicago, the coun­try's second largest city, and that suburban residents are paying high tax bills largely to support city. services. 
To counter this, six townships· containing more than a dozen of· Chicago's fastest-growing subur­ban communities, have begun planning a new county, something that hasn't been done in Ulinois since 1959. 
The county. to be called Lincoln 
would cut off what is now the . northwest corner of Cook County, Lincoln would be the state's fourth largest county with an estimated 
350,000 residentS. 

State Sen. David Regner, a suburban Republican, has spon­sored legislation that would make 
secession 1 easier. He says a survey he conducted among 2,000 of his constituents showed 69 percent in favor of withdrawal, 17 percent opposed an 14 percent with no opinion. 
acting director. "Starting a county from scratch like that. It's just an enormous undertaking." 
Before World War II, the north­west suburbs consisted mainly of vegetable farms. Since then, they have experienced dramatic growth, absorbing an· influx of relatively affluent white collar workers. 
Arlington Heights, for instance, grew from 8,768 residents in 1950 to 64,884 in 1970. Its median family income in 1974 was $24,000 compared with a median of $12,400 in the city. 
Currently suburbs account for almost half of Cook County's total $23.9 billion assessed valuation. They accounted for only a third of the county's total worth a decade ago. 
"I think we would be better served, with a more modern ap­proach to government, if we created our own county unit," said Jones. 
He said the present county board structure, with 10 Chicago mem­hers and six suburban representa­tives, gives the suburban interests short shrift. 
Although the majority of subur­ban residents are Republicans, "you have the Democratic machine of Chicago controlling the su­burbs," Jones said. "It's one-
The ideas of separating suburban , party rule totally. and there seems towns from the central city is not to be no way out except secession." unique to Cook County. There George Dunne, Cook County have also been some efforts s far board president and chairman of unsuccessful, to split off o~tlying the co~nty Democratic organi~a­communities of Los Angeles County, ton, sa1d he woul~ ot:fer, no resld­the nation • s largest in terms of ~~n~e. to the secess1omsts pro~~sal population. · ,If 1t _s ~hat the people.~ant .. 
Admittedly a "tongue-in-cheek .. Th1s 1s a democra_cy, he satd. idea" when it started the cam-lfthe people want It, they should paign "gets more serio~s the worse have it. I'm not worried about the Cook County government be-losin~. patronage jobs or anything comes," says Mayor Wendell else. . Jones of Palatine, the guiding force r;:tayor J~mes Rran or Arlm~on behind the separatist movement. ~e1ghts sa1d th7 1dea o~ secedmg Joens has prepared a feasibility has .so~e merit, but I m not _as coming to fruition. 
"Before I'd be out front, J'd want a thoughtful, in-depth analysis of what would result," Ryan said. "What's good at one time may not be good for all times.'' 
Jones said the biggest obstacle to secession is the stringent re­quirements of state law. 
The law currently requires the signatures of at least half the registered voters in the area to place the question of secession on the ballot in the 1978 general election, the earliest it could be done. 
Then a majority of all persons voting in the election -not just a majority of those voting on the secession issue -is required for approval. This means someone-­who fails to vote either war on the issue effectively casts..a "no" vote. 
Regner's biHf would reduce the number of petition signatures re­quired to.-.tt least 20 percent and would !Jlake approval hinge on the numh~c.-of persons voting strictly on the:: issue. 
SMC Student Government 
Now accepting 
applications for the 

position of Spiritual 
Life Commissioner 
Questions : 


Call Kathy at 5776 
study on the idea and sub urban l!il!m!l!!!s!!tt!!!!c.!!!a!!s!!so!!m!!!!e!!o!!th~e~r!!s!!ar!!e!!£!!o!!r!!1t!!s!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!m 
officials sent it on to the state Department of Local Affairs. ''The enormity of it staggers me," said John Castle, department 

fatwauv's Just past 


%The Observer 
OPEN FRI. &SAT.
Night Editor: Bill Rivard . Asst. Night Editors: Frank Kebe and Leigh Tunakan 

TILL MIDNIGHT 
layout Staff: Sandy Colson Editorial layout: Pat Hanifin Sports layout: Bob Keen Typists: Karen Chiames, Gwen Coleman, Rusty Espin­osa, Kathy Egbert and Mel 


$2.69 

Celeste Night Controller: Morey 
12 Pack 
Blinder 

Day Editor: Marian Ulicny Copy Reader: Joan Fremeau Ad layout: Pat Russell Photographer: Debbie Krilich 
you should be 

STEPPIN' OUT 
at the IRISH WAKE Stepan Center Featuring CHOICE Sat. from 9 -1 
anatomy. ·'llllllllllljlir.IMII!iW!!~~~~~~~~IIt~~--e...CIIIII..IIi~r:.lllll:.'ff 

Modern photographic techniques and advanced microfilm technology 1 
The Observer 1s published Monday through Fnday and weekly dunng the summer session. except during the exam and vacation periods The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and St Mary's College Subscriptions may be purchased for $20 per year ($10 per semester) from The Obser· ver, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 Second class postage pc,ic, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
The Observer IS a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction 


Laundry Coupon Redemption Laundry Plant Door 2 May 2-6 
9-llam. 1­
Falstaff/Blatz $2.60 
12 Pack Rhinelander 
\,O.CI(s, 
LIQUOR -OR\.0 
S.ldll ••• ,,.. 
277-3111 




$1.59 
6 Pack Schiltz 



$3.09 
12 Pack 
Old Style 


Misc. Case Beer 
Vodak $3.99 qt 

Gin  $3.99qt.  
Rum  $4.98 qt  
Scotch  $5.39qt :  

iladelphia Whiskey 


$4.89qt 

CIGARETTES $385 carton 

Thursday, April 21, 1977 
the observer
"'--'-----=­




COUP: The basis for the Campaign for ND 
by Marti Hogan Editor-In-Chief 

Editor's note: This Is the first part In a series of articles explaining the recommendations of the COUP report and tbelr relation to The Campaign for Notre Dame. 
"It's a temptation for Notre Dame people to dwell on the glory and tradition of Notre Dame, and 
Two bookstore basketball contestants take a wary breather. [photo by Debbie Krilich] 
Indiana drinking age is because 
"the more effort we spend on this GNP increase to 1.3 trillion 
office, s~.c~~~-fi~·J.a F~rtu.m~. creas~~. ill .the tir$t 9uarter, and . three months of 1977. 
· ·'"·,.·,.,·.·..·~·....tt;~rsr.,-w...........!'.,...,...,.J.~·~·I!~...·.,.•-,.,·,·,.·-,.. ~·-..~--~~"·""~•-,•~·~,~~;.•.• ·• •.-•.•.•.•-•.•.• •.•.·-•.•.• ···~· '.•,... ~·.~~ .-"'...•.--........ ..:.·.. -·_ ".-:" ot.,....f·-:.... 
, there's nothing wrong with this prideful review ... but the future is more significant ... " said Paul Foley, UniversityTrustee at the opening assembly last Friday "f.or The Cam­paign for Notre Dame. Fr. Theodore Hesburgh, Univer­sity president, must have had this thought in mind when he estab­lished the Committee on Under­graduate Priorities (COUP) Sept. 19, 1972. The recommendations 

Student Lobby continues drinking age bill effort 
by Diane Wilson year's Morrissey Hall president 
Staff Reporter and Klein believes he is well 
qualified to work with the lobby 
becasue of his "cool-headedness 
''The Student Lobby will spend and his outstanding speaking _­at least 99 per cent of their time ability." next year working to get the Student Lobby is presently ac­Indiana drinking age lowered to cepting applications for next year's 19," stated Mark Klein, head of staff. Applications will be accepted Student Lobby. through April 25 and can be 
Klein said that the bill should obtained from the secretary of have a good chance of passing next Student Goverment, stated Klein. year. He explained that it probably ; There are approximately 10-15 staff would have passed this year except positions open and anyone who is that the sponsor wtihdrew his qualified has a good chance of support. being chosen, he continued. 
The reasons why Student Lobby is spending so much time on the 
bill, the more effective we will be in Indianapolis" said Klein. . Also, most of the students here would like to see the drinking age lowered, he added. 
Klein stressed that the law they are supporting includes 19-year olds but not 18-year olds. The possibility of lowering the drinking age to 19 is much better than 18 "because 19 would not include high school seniors," continued Klein. 
Klein also announced the execu­tive appointment of two new people. Glen Sturm will be co-director of the Lobby. He Jives in Indiana, which means that he will be in close contact with what is happening over the summer, ex­plained Klein. 
Mike Doyle will also hold an executive position. He is' this 
44e•s prl·ze

su 0II1 I for beSt lOgO . 
• 

In an effort to create a new 
im~ge, Student Union is spon­
sonng a logo contest. The logo will '. 
be used as the Student Union 
trademark. 
A $20 prize will be awarded to 
the designer of the "most creative 
i~aginative, eye-catching" logo: The dollar value of the nation's s~td Tom Gryp, Student Union Igoods and services was put at dtrector. . · slightly less than $1.3 trillion at a A~) entries must be submitted by ' se_!ls!>nally adjusted annual rate. Apnl 28 to the Student Union Consumer spending also in-


shows improving economy 
WASHINGTON AP • The na­tion's Gross National Product in­creased at an annual rate of 5.2 percent in the first quarter of 1977, the largest gain in a year and a signal of an improving economy, the government announced yesterday. 
The GNP indicator, which mea­sures the market value of the goods and services produced in the country, might have been bigger still except for the severe winter weather, the Commerce Depart­ment's Bureau of Economic Analy­sis said. 
"The extremely cold ·weather in January and February reduced the increase in real output and final 
sales and boosted prices in the first quarter. The extremely cold wea­ther probably reduced the increase in real putput by 1.5 percentage points at an annual rate . . . the 
bureau said. The rate of inflation was put at 5.8 percent, the same as in the previous quarter. 
The ftrst quarter increase was the highest since a rise of 9.2 percent registered in the first quarter of 1976. 
that evolved from the COUP report are the basis for The Campaign for Notre Dame. 
Although Notre Dame could not have the "best of both worlds," Hesburgh believed it must plan to achieve what is the best in its present world. He therefore direc­ted COUP to ''study the present and, especially, the future of Notre Dame in an effort to determine what are the most important and ;ndespensible elements of our total mission, the most essential as 
, contrasted with that which mightIhave seemed desirable under other circumstances." 
The committee initially consisted of 12 members. However, two additional members joined the committee March 28, 1973 at the committee's mandate. The mem­bership of the committee was suggested to Hesburgh by the Steering Committee of the Aca­demic Council. 
The COUP members included Rev. James T. Burtchaell, Univer­sity pmvost and chairman of COUP; Rev. Ernan McMullin, pro­fessor f){ philosophy and COUP secretary; Howard Bathon, then senior Arts and Letters and Chem­ical Engineering major; Rev. David Burrell, associate professor of the­oJgy and philosophy; Dr. James Daschbach, associate professor of Aerospace and Mechanical Engin­eering; Dr. James Frick, vice presidet,t for public relations and development; Rev. James Flan­igan, associate vice president for Studen Affairs; Dr. Yusaku Fur­uhashi, professor of marketing manag{ment; Dr. Robert Gordon, vice president for Advanced Stu­dies; Sr. Madonna Kolbenschlag, assistant professor of American Studies; Dr. 0. Timothy O'Meara, professor of mathematics; Dr. 
Frank Palopoli, gr.aduate ~tudent in 
government and mternatwnal stu­dies (at the time); Dr. Thomas 
Shaffer, dean of the law school and 

L~r. \1arshall Smelser, professor of • 
ht~~·6~tober. 1972. the committee NOTRE DAME A.C.C. 
formed four task forces to study four aspects of university life: academic disciplines, research and instruction, enrollment and physi­cal Facilities. 
The academic disciplines task force, headed by O'Meara, tested :.reas in major departments for !>trengths and weaknesses. The task force concerned with research and instruction investigated the 
was up $34.8 billion over the fourth quarter compared to a $33.5 billion increase between the third and fourth quarters of 1976. 
Spending on motor vehicles showed a more than 10-fold in­crease over the increase recorded in the fourth quarter. Such spending rose Sl billion in the fourth quarter and an additional $10.5 billion in the first three months of 1977. 
The increase in purchases of durable goods was up more than 250 percent, or $11.4 billion over the $4.4 billion increase during the previous quarter. 
The indicators showed the pur­chases of nondurable goods in­creased S7. 7 billion, down from the 
rise of $14.2 billion in the previous three months. 
The bureau said the slowdown in the increase in purchases of non-durables was mainly in clothing and gasoline, following very large increases for these categories in the fourth quarter of 1976. 
While the disposable income of Americans increased $29 billion, they were spending more . $35.2 billion -the figures showed. as a result personal savings declined $6 billion with the savings rate drop­ping from 5.6 percent in the fourth quarter to 5 percent for the first 

. relationship of teaching and re­search on campus. Under the direction of McMullin, it also examined the financial side of research. Academic buildings were not the only concern for the task force on physical facilities. It also studied athletic and residential buildings as well as the campus grounds, space and environment. The purpose of the specific buildings were inves­tigated to see whether or not they were being fulfilled. Burrell chaired the task force on enroll­ment. The main mode of investigation consisted of weekly meetings with personnel involved in the various fields. Public appeals were also 
made to the five university constit-• ;<.," '!!o.,"· ~ ~ uencies: faculty, students, admin-• IZ.i. -~~ .+ istrators, alumni and trustees. The l ~"'0 ~ ~(/.) '\ • committee was interested in their ; '10 -~~ ~ 
o 

suggestions on how it might eval-• ~'ri ~ ~~· 
uate the various departments. (/.) • The four task forces met and held •. 'l1-...._~v o0 ~OJ~. 
hearings continually from Oct. fl.;'\-..;.~ n.~ t 1972, until April )973. At the • ~~ ,~ ~~





a •. 

conclusion of their work, each task .,.,~ ~· ~ • force met with the committee "" ~ ',!:,'\.. n ";) • individually in April to disclose • '~ ~ -Y their findings. These findings were •••••••• 
Are you the life of the party with your impersonat io"'s??? Sign up TODAY for the impersonations contest, Friday 4pm, in front of Alumni. Call John 8708-9 or Julie 4-4712 
TH.URSDAY APR 28th 8 PM 
PRICES: 

ALL CHAIR 
TYPE SEATS •••••••• 57.50 
BLEACHERS •••••••• 55.50 
Tickets on sale: NOTRE DAME A. C. C. Mon. • Sat. 9 to 5 Robertson's South Bend & Concord Mall St. Joseph Bank and branches First Bank Main office only 
Elkhart Truth 
STARTS FRIDAY 

"THE FuNNIEST 
NEW COMEDY OF THE YEAR." 
·Vernon Scott, UNITED PRESS 

PAUL NEWMAN IN 
AGEORGE ROY HILl FILm 
FRIDAY 
6:45-9:15 
SAT·SUN 
1 :45·4:15 6:45·9 :30 

(() 
t 
LAST I MR. BILL """ 
7:15-9:15 
the starting points of the COUP report. 
COUP submitted its first report to the Board of Trustees in Dec. 1973. After two years of intensive analysis and evaluation, it was approved by the board. The report was then designated as the specific guide to University development. 
According to Dr. James Frick, vice president of public relations and development, "The Campaign for Notre Dame is nothing more than the implementation of the COUP report findings." 
(continued on page 5] 
0~ • 





SI.IIP SIIDT 
Co-starring miCHAEL ONTKEAN • LINDSAY CROUSE JENNIFER WARREN • JERRY HOUSER Md STROTHER mARTIN 



the observer 

Urban renewal and the future 
South Bend is not dead 
by Marian Ulicny Senior Staff Reporter 

"Downtown South Bend is prob­ably in a better position to undergo a real renaissance than most com­parable areas in the country," according to the 1975 South Bend Economic Report. 
The report attributes the thrust for South Bend's future develop­ment to "an increasing awareness on the part of most citizens that the (South Bend) core is the economic heart .of the Michiana region, and that it must not be allowed to deteriorate or disappear." 
Development of the downtown area will focus on both retailing and 
Novelist Uie Wiesel opened the Ward Phillips lecture series 
business interests because "either 
l.tst nighl in Wo~shinglon Hall wilh a discussion of lhe Hasidic 
one by itself is not enough,"
M.tsler. Tht• series continues loday and tomorrow. 
according to Marc Brammer, real 
lpholo by l>ehhie Krilichl, 
estate agent for the city of South 
~====================~======~ 
Downtown development plans enhance South Bend future 
by Karen lllnkH 

Memht·rs of the Northeast Nl"i,.:hhorhood Council met last Wt·dnt•sday with off-campus com­missioner Joe Ungashil-k, Dean of Studt·nts JamesRoemer. the South lknd Board of Public Safety, and lontl h11r owners to present a .111-day short-term proposal as a solution to the noise, litter, and nuisllnt·e problems in the Corby-Eddy tavern area. 
Jt;hn Roos, a government pro-tt.•ssor at Notre Dame and a spokesman for the Northeast Neighborhood Council explained that his interest in the problem is not strictly a personal one. He views the impact of the litter and noise in the "older inner-city neighborhood" as being crucial. 
The trend in the past few years has been to flee to the suburbs abandoning the inner city to escape the rampant crime rate and deter­iorating neighborhoods. "The. problem with the cities today is that the affluent and middle-income families are moving out of the cities and into the suburbs," Roos ex­plained. "The people remaining in the neighborhood are usually the powerless: the elderly living alone, fixed income families who are t•t·onomit-ally fragile. and young families." 
In an effort to preserve the nt•ighborhood from falling into the hands of "slum landlords", Roos und other residents. remain for stx·iul justke reasons. "When thin~s happen that do not comply with tht.· lifestylt.-of the neighbor­htll.ld," Roos said. "the families with tht• rt•sourt•t•s move to the suburbs wht.•n• taxes are lower, the sdttll.lls urt• bt•ttt·r. and the neigh­btlriwods quit·ter." 
Tht• problem in the Corby-Eddy an·a. as viewt•d bv members of the "''urwil. is" tremendous amounr of rwist• and litter from students frt·quenting the four taverns within tlw area. Trash, beer bottles, and plastic ,·ups are left in the area and ar,· rarely deaned up by anyone. Bccaust• of the litter the residents ,,f the urea have presented the 
'students and bar owners with a proposal.
.J,w lln~ashil'k. off-campus com­missitmt•r.stated that the proposal inn1ln·s both a strong committ­
nwnt and t'l.lOperation from stu­'knts. .·Bar ,,wners han· been asked to ,·kan up the.· area two biOt·ks on t•ither side of their establishment.·· l;ngashick explained. "The North-
t•ast Neighborhood Council has submitted names of youths from the area who will clean the sur­
roundings by S p.m.. the following evt•ning." 
Each tavern owner has agreed to make a weekly contribution to subsidize the dean-up. Corby's and Bridget McGuire's will render SlO each week. The library and Nickie's SIS. 
Aqo~h~r aspect of the proposal is 
no live entertainment or expand their building in any way without prior consultation and agreement from the northeast residents. Residents have requested bar own­ers to usc reusable containers instead of plastic cups to prevent litter caused by students taking cups out of the buildin~s. Accord­ing to a source wishing to remain unidentified, the majority of plastic cups found this past weekend were from the Senior Bar. Many feel the Senior Bar could take great strides in aiding the problem by serving liquor in reusable bottles and glasses. Residents are presently . looking into the possibility of 
instating a city ordinance that would prohibit anyone from leaving a bar with an open container. 
Also proposed are the distribu­tion of leaflets, the posting of signs around the area, the placing of trash cans on sidewalks, and foot patrolmen to oversee the sur­roundings. 
''The Northeast Neighborhood residents arc: serious, They are making a plea to the students.'' Ungashick stated. "It's not that students are deliberately making trouble. They are unacquainted with the problem. The tesidents are asking students to become more sensitive to their needs. The neighborhood is . full of elderly people and young children." 
He explained the northeast area 
1 is very much aware of the services the University provides for the community. Members realize tht•re are ·only a small majority of students causing the problem. 
"The students are a responsible group and will work together and cooperate so that everything will work out as planned." he said. "The meeting held last week was constructive: progress was made. We have faith in everyone and w~uld like to get this ~II behind us." 
Owners of the four bars in question emphatically voiced their desire to cooperate with area resi­dents. 
Vince lynch. assistant manager of Corby's stated the meeting was "verv constructive". "Corbv's is 
in agreement with the proposal," · he said. "We plan to have someone standing by the door to see that no one leaves with open. containers." The new managers have not bought reusable co"ntain­. ers in the past due to breakage in the bar and on the streets. Presently, they are using plastic 
Fall mov•"e pl"cks "I bl
nOW aVal a 9 
Any club wishing to show a movie during the fall semester must fill out an application for Student Union. Applications are due no later than 4 p.m. tomorrow, and are available at the Student Union offices. There will be no 
the &!9wners must 4gree to haye, e.x~ptiq9_~· ..t~•P ,.j1... ,~". 
L
~\,) ~ '\.;.,., -t'Uf{\ t • ·~ ~ O..•>rJ "" -· • ' -~ -· " \ 
~-, / ,.,., • ..__ -·"!\tr• ' 
.,....-,n,. a-wt•~-........,.-..~~~~_,~...._~~;j,• ..~·,_..,. llt''U"'l~~"'l.."-'L.~ 
cups and cans. 

Theresa Bauer, manager of Brid­
get McGuire's Filling Station, said 
she was pleased with the progress 
being made. "We're working 
together to solve this problem." 
Bridget's has agreed to try using 
glasses and bottles. "We'll try it 
now and see what happens." 
Bauer also observed that part of the 
lifler and noise problem may be 
attributed to off-campus parties as 
well as the taverns. 

Rick Kansor, manager of the 
library is also in agreement with 
the proposal and is satisfied with 
the progress being made. 

The members of the council, 
representatives of the university, 
and bar owners are working to­
gether to alleviate the disturbances 
being caused in the neighborhoods 
and are asking students to become 
more sensitive to their needs. 

Morris Inn celebrates 25th 
Today marks the 25th anniver­sary of the Morris Inn. The 91-room hotel which also contains private and public dining facilities, was built in 1952 with a 51-million gift from the late Ernest M..and Ella L. Morris. South Bend phtlan­thropists. Renovations were com­pleted in 1962 and 1972. 
Guests of the hotel have included religious and political leaders such as Paul VI and Dwight D. Eisenhower, as well as many entertainment stars. 
The Morris family. benefactors of the University on several occa­sions and prominent in lay leader­ship roles. donated the 1951 _gift in appreciation for the educaho~ ?f Jaw received by the elder Morrts tn the early par.t of the century. An orphan. without funds, and a member of the Presbyterian faith, Morris appealed to the late Rev. John W. Cavanaugh. C.S.C .. Uni­versity president and was accepted for studies. 
The head chef at the inn. 
Theodore Tarnowski, of 814 N. 
Huev St., South Bend. is also 
celebrating a 25th anniversary with 
the hotel. John Rash. and assistant 
Jerry Williams. manage the inn. 


Library adds XLR collection 

An "Extra leisure Reading" (XlR)collection is being developed on a trial basis at Memorial 
library. according to Brother Frank Crury. C.S.C., Acting Head of the College library. The new collection, located in the College library, contains fiction. non-fiction paperback and hard­bound books. All XlR books have been dona~ed, processed by the College library staff, and circulate a~ any other book. Donations are welcome. and can be dropped off at th.e College Library desk or in room 207. 
...... 
Bend. 

Block Six, an area located along 
the west side of the St. Joseph 
River, was purchased by the South 
Bend Downtown Redevelopment 
Commission. The commission 
used Federal matching grants to 
build the Century Center and the 
Post Office in this vicinity. 
Ramada Inn and the Whitcomb­
Keller building are also located on 
Block Six. "We tried to sandwich 
the land in between these build­
ing~, so, hopefully, its value will 
increase," Brammer explained. 
A high-rise for the elderly with 
approximately 300 units will be 
constructed next spring, Brammer 
stated. This project will qualify as 
a subsidy for local grant-in-aid. 
"We'll receive credit for all cons­
truction to put into Federal match­, ing funds elsewhere," he added. ! Mid-Way Moter Inn will also be 
added next spring in the Block Six 
area for the Century Center busi­
ness. It will include a restaurant. 
''Most of our plans in the city 
rely on the hope that renewal will 
spread to the area adjacent to the 
river on the other side," Brammer 
stated. "Any additional construc­
tion helps increase the tax base and 
brings revenues into the city." 

According to Brammer, down­
town development will be "solidly 
established" by 1985 to 1987 with 
the necessary financing. "City 
financing is definitely a city con­
cern," he stated. "To rebuild the 
downtown is a job for South Bend, 
not so much for Washington." 

Downtown development projects 
used federal funds only in building 
River Bend Plaza, the pedestrian 
mall, and in residential project 
rehabilitation, Brammer stated. 
"South Bend is lucky becaus~ it 
is able to provide its own finan­
ces," he continued. "The future 
looks good from the mere stand­
point that downtown is by no 
means a dead, huge, atrocious 
problem without the financial re­
sources to solve it." 

. To supplement municipal funds, 
tile Chamber of Commerce and 
private interest groups are working 
to attract businessmen and comm­
ercial concerns to the downtown 
district. 

One such interest group is South 
Bend 2000. Comprised of spokes­
men from downtown financial insti­
tutions, it serves as sounding board 
which the Mayor and City council 
use for renewal suggestions. 
According to Lex Wilkinson, chair­
man of the group, "South Bend 
2000 is trying to provide a better 
retailing climate downtown." The 
group is measuring the viable 
interest in a downtown retail 
caenter by working with develo­pers, city administrators and pri­vate business. 
The group's major aim is to attract business interests to the South Bend area. The Key 
promotional device is th~ "City In A 
1 Box" advertising campaign. Not­ices have been placed in national magazines, particularly business-­oriented publications such as The Wall Street Journal. Local adverti­
' sing has been directed throughout the Chicago and Michiana regions. 

"City In A Box" literature emphasizes four drawing points of South Bend. "Spaces To Sprout In'' provides descriptions of the city's office space. "Resources To Rely On" notes the availability of personnel and data processing. "Facilities To Accommodate" lists the city's service institutions, inclu­ding schools and hospitals. "Ex­panses to Explore" summarizes 
[continued on page 9] 
Philosophy Dept adds course 

The Philosophy Department an­nounces an addition to its fall course offerings. 
Philosophy and Technology, Phil. 282, will discuss the major technical innovations that are likely to occur inthe next 25 years in relation to such issues as: what role should technology play in achieving human goals, and what is the proper role of society in developing technofogy? 
The use and abuse of computers will be a major concern, with discussion on technologies for gen­etic' manipulation, energy produc­tion and mental control. 
The course will be taught by Professor Garson at 11 and 1 MWF. 
need resumes in a hurry?· 

~~ 


insty-prints 
the wiz of the printing biz! 
rag bond 2 5 -81/2 X 1 1 $2.55 203 N. 
this friday and every friday 5 :15 mass & supper 
LORI MAR-BAVARIA o•mnu 
AGERIA PRODUCTION 
. Mon.. Thurs 6:45'9:25,
\,1.:. .... ~·J 
Thursday, April 21, 1977 
the observer 


Many attempt to preserve river city~s heritage 
by Karen Hinks 

Edito;:'s Note: This is the first in a 3 part series describing the efforts to preserve the historical heritage of South Bend. 
South Bend Indiana, a moder­
ately large mid-western town, rare­
ly sparks the imagination in terms 
of historical heritage. Most people 
are aware of the Co·mcil Oak tree, 
the portage across :he St. Joseph 
river and the Indians. But little 
atte·.tion is given to an important 
era in the history of the community 
durhg the 1800's. 
South Bend was an industrial city 
back in the nineteenth century. 
Such men as Clement ;,nd Peter 
Studebaker and James and Joseph 
Oliver contributed greaily to the 
growing prosperity of the commu­
nitv. What these brothers. their 
families and many others of that 
generation left to this community is 
worth careful consideration. 
Today, the face of the city is 
changing. People are fleeing to the 
subur_bs and abandoning the inner 
city to escape the rampid crime rate 
and deteriorating neighborhoods. 
Within the past ten or fifteen years, 
urban renewal has taken place in 
the downtown area. Under the 
guise of "progress" many valuable 
and sound structures have been 
demolished to make way for four­
teen-story modern super-struc­
tures. Many people of the commu­
nity have completely lost the sense 
of their heritage. 
In an effort to preserve the 
historic value of the city and to 
restore and save the inner-city 
neighborhoods, a group of con­
cerr "!d citizens have formed an 
Historic Preservation Commission. 
Their intention is to encc urage and 
educate the community .in hopes 
that an awareness of the value of 
historic preservation anc n~ighbor­
hood restoration is recognized. 
Historic preservation is defined 
in the city ordinance 5565-73 as 
"the research, protection. main­
tenance, restoration, rehabil­
itation. reconstruction, or devel­
opment of historic landmarks'' and 
pertains particularly to the preser­
vation of the exterior physical 
features only. The commission is a 
relatively new group. 
Nine members compose the South Bend and St. Joseph County Historic Preservation Commission. The city council. county council, the countv commissioners and the mayor appoint two members each. The ninth member is appointed by other commission members and is to be an architectural historian as specified in the city ordinance. All members serve without pay. 
~ ne commission has apart-time consultant who does research, pre­parrs the commission's minutes and manages the office. 
The commission was established for several reasons, according to Rita Kopczski, a member of the Historic Preservation Commission. ''The first and continuing duty of the commission is promotion of public interest in historic preser­vation," Kopczski explained. "We started as a governmental agency to serve as a vehicle for designating legislature to research, protect, maintain and restore the exterior features of historic landmarks.'' 
Next, the commission is man­dated to develop historic preser-
SMC election results posted 
Yesterday's final elections for McCandless Hall president and vice president and Augusta Hall student assembly representative resulted in about SO per cent voter turnout in both dorms. 
Teresita Valdivia and Betsy Steitz, both juniors, were victorious in their race for McCandiess Hall officers. 
Pegy Calhoun was elected Au­gQ&tit.Hall's·~stntative·in· the student'as'seml:ily: . ' ' . 
vation plans for historic landmarks .and districts, and together with other private l!gencies and officials, to assist in the administration and 
implememtation of such plans. 

This particular duty necessitates 
preparing a survey of the city and 
county which identifies structures 
and neighborhoods worthy of his­
toric preservation and architectural 
and neighborhood conservation. 
This includes long-range planning 
to halt the destruction and decay of 
fine, older neighborhoods and 
structures. 
Because the commission is a 
government agency, funds become 
available through grants and en­
dowments. "These federal funds of 
redevelopment are allocated to 
prevent the destruction of those 
structures listed on the National 
Register or those that have the 
potential of being listed,'' Kopczski 
stated. 
She defined the National Regis­
ter as "an inventory of the signifi­
cant structures and sites in the city 
of South Bend. The inventory 
includes buildings and sites of 
historical and architectural merit, 
as well as districts and neighbor­
hooqs which have played a role in 
the development of the city of 
South Bend." 
Kopczski explained one of the 
most difficult tasks of the commis­
sion is to-get across the idea of 
preservation. "In terms of the 
neighborhoods, we want to make 
the people aware of their neighbor­
hood heritage, a quality all-too­
often lost today." 
Many "town-meetings" have been held during the duration of ·the commission. The most recent meeting was held Dec. 12, 1976. At that time, several members and interested ·groups gathered to­gether to celebrate the heritage of the neighborhood. Slide show pre­sentations were given, and several stood to express their views of the value and practicality of saving and 
preserving. 
"We actually saw people becom­ing excited about their heritage.'· Kopczski commented. "It was very encouraging for ns ~ecause we saw the development of that heritage. They were. actually interested in how the history was developed. Even more encouraging was the fact these people a~e so enthusi­astic about preservation and con­servation in their neighborhoods that they are determined and prepared to make politicians listen to their needs. It is overwhelming to see the neighbors band together in an attempt to save their neigh­borhoods." 
Brian Crumlish, an architect with Crumlish and Sporleder, is a dedicated citizen bent on preser­ving, restoring and maintaining structures essential to the survival of the community. 
Crumlish has conducted several 
surveys in .the near northwest 
neighborhood area and the West 
Washington, Chapin-Park area. 
"We did a windshield survey of the area which covers the entire site and generally evaluated the struc­tures as superior or above aver­age," Crumlish stated. He discus­sed the criterion used in determin­ing the status of superior or above average. 
"The first criteria is to consider the structure and how it fits into the neighborhood, next the structural soundness is judged and finally the architectural character is deter­mined." 
The proposed historic district in South Bend, the West Washington area, contains a large collection of homes of very superior rating. According to Crumlish and mem­bers of the commission, the near northwest neighborhood is worthy of national recognition in the National Register but does not have the individual significant structures of the West Washington, Chapin­Park area. 
For instance, contained in the West Washington neighborhood are such structures as St. Patrick's, St. Hedwig's and St. Paul's Mem­orial Methodist Churches. Also included in its many blocks are the Studebaker house, Kaiser-Schmidt house, the Bartlett house and the Oliver mansion. 
James and Joseph Oliver were the inventors of the steel plow and their home is furmshed just as they left it. The Oliver's butler still resides in the mansion and still tends to his daily tasks. 
Crumlish pointed out that of the five houses designed by architect Frank Lloyd Wright in the mid­west, two exist in the community of South Bend. And that, he feels, is something to be proud of. 
He emphasized however, that the hisioric district is more than just a few mansions. It is a neighborhood of living people who have a sense of the past that surrounds them. 
Crumlish described the survey 
, taken of the areas. "The survey is a local and state registration. The architectural firm photographs the structure, describes its exterior features and decides. according to the criterion set by the National Register, whether the homes. sites or buildings are superior," he said. ''In applying for the registration we are interested in the architecture and the style." In the South Bend community alone, surveys have shown styles such as Greek Revival, Italianate. Gothic Revival, a large quantity of the Queen Anne style, Roman­esque. Colonial and some Neo­Classical. He noted from his find­ings that it is surprising that out of the list, all of the structural designs can be found in the community. Crumlish particularized the Queen Anne style as being "the most prominent architectural de­sign at the end of the 19th century." The building is basically square with a primidal roof. From this 
Your Source for the Unusual in Diamonds and Precious Gems Platinum and Gold Jewelry 
You'll find untold treasures of the finest quality brought to you by the eye of an expert.* And sold with the care of a professional.* 



Insurance appraisals and purchases of fine diamonds and estate jewelry provided. 
•Graduate Gemologist: Gemological Institute of America •Fellow Gemmologist: 

Gemmological Association of Great Britain ·s.A.: Indiana University 
Lobby St. Joseph Bank Building South Bend, Indiana Telephone: 287-1427 
John M. Marshall's 


C:Oiamond 9mpottt Contpan~ 
Your Source for the Unusual 

. •...· ,..... -:, ...~ ..... ·-·..;.·...-.................·.
,· .i ·" •' ~ .. . _.•..• , .• • • .. ........t • ~ 
' 

..... ,.... 
. ........_ 

. 
fundamental structure, the archi­tect constructs dormers and porches that eventually elaborate the form. 
He explainerl the c;tylr ''Ver­nacular Queen Anne'' is not done by an architect but by a builder. This style is very popular in both the West Washington-Chapin Park area and the neighborhood of the near northwest. 
The builder develops the square stratifications and framing system and enriches the structures a little so as you travel down the streets "you'II notice they're almost all the same but there is a slight dif­ference in each one to give them some distinction.'' 
Crumlish views the design as being aesthetically satifying to the eye. "The dwellings are unlike the 
row-homewhere everything is exac­tly the same.·' he observed. ··Be­cause of this particular style. one doesn't catch the monotonv of homes so familiar of today.·· · 
This series will be continued tomor­row. 


COUP advocates renovation, growth 
[continued from page 3] 8. Sut stantial increase in Adm1s 
COUP report that received res­sions Otfice funds. 
ponse from Campaign are: <}, Enl:rge student aid endowment. 
10. En 1ance University's rec;iden­

1. 
General commitment to institu­tial character. tional excellence. 11. Expansion of engineering facil­

2. 
Undergird Catholic character of ities; cc•nstruction of chemical re­the University. search, dassroom and facultv office 

3. 
Increase excellence 'in all aca­buildings; enlargement of art gal­demic disciplines. lerv. 

4. 
Encourage departments to ini­12: Support for University Pres~. tiate teacher development pro­The Iarg·~st amount of campaign grams. funds have been designated for the 

5. 
Highest priority for endowment. University endowment. Tomorrow 

6. 
Establish library endowment for the endowment component of The purchase of books. periodicals and Campaign for Notre Dame will be related materials. discussed. 

7. 
Systematic plant renovation. Recommendations from the 



Cycling Club to ride 
The Notre Dame Cycle Touring Semester. All new and prospective Club is sponsoring a bicycle trip to members are invited and should Barron Lake. Michigan Saturday. have ten-speed bicycles. Rides April 23. The trip is routed around start at the Libran· Circle at 9 am the north side of the campus and and last until12 or 1 p.m. Cvclists into southern Michigan. Following should bring along a lunch or a tour of the lake the group will money. 

·The Cycle Touring Club is plan­ning additional rides for the semes­ter as well as summer tours. including part of the "Bikecenten­nial Trail." Fellow cvclists inter­ested in the weekend. or summer tours should come Saturdav or call Russ at 288-5192 or Paul at 8933. 
...------..NEEDLOW-COST 
I
I I
TRANSPORTATION? 
1 
I 
We can help. Contact: 
I
Auto DriveawaJ Co.

stop for lunch. The return trip will 
bring the cyclists back to campus I 
bv 2:00pm.

· Th' · h h · d · · f
0
IS IS t . e t lr m a senes 
1 

weekend t:1ps sponson;:~d by ~he 
Cycle Tourmg Club dunng Sprmg .... 
iht (nhmial 
_ I
674 9786 
D · R · · 
epos1t equ1red
Returned at Destination 
I 
--Must be 21.-­
_______.... 



Fanr:ak£ Jfous£ ~ 
OUR SPECIALTY 

OVEN-BAKED APPLE PANCAKES 
You'II be back for more 
US 31 (Dixieway North) in Roseland (Across from Holiday .Inn) 




the senior bar 
ursday Night 

H·at-Night 
Anyone wearing a hat 
gets a .free beer! Door prizes to the most unusual hats. 
7 & 7'S soc

9-1 Gin & Tonics 
the Observer Thu~~w,April21,1~7~============================================
rr6
J American diet has imPlications ~ for global grain aoailability 
(U by Jack D' Aurora with population increases, notes a grain to feed 45 million people
'""5.. United Nations committee. every year. The U.S. per capita consumption Thirty percent of the world's By consuming more protein-rich0.. of grain fed !Jeef has doubled since population, however, controls SO alternatives such as dairy products, :::l 1950, rising to 122 pounds per year, percent of the world's food. Unless !fish and combinations of grains and 
t..J") accorciing to economist Lyle the means of distribution are vegetables, Americans can reduce .Schertz, with total meat and poul-altered, the hundreds of millions of their intake of meat without suffer-S... try per capita consumption at 250 starving could easily be doubled or ing nutritionally. Books such as (U pounds per year. This necessitates even tripled, according to econo-Diet for a Small Planet and Great£:: that four-fifths of all grain produc-mist Gunner Mvrdall. ·Meatless Meals by Frances Lappe ed in the U.S. be fed to animals -This problem of maldistribution, feature hundreds of nutritious ~ more grain than the people of India is furthered by the inefficiency of meatless meals . 
.,D and China directly consume, notes our meat producing system. Grain A meat cutback on our part could the lobby group Bread for the fed to cattle is responsible for less have implications for the world
0 World. than one-half of table-ready meat, food market. Realistically, how-Consequently, per capita grain as the excess protein and carbohy-ever, the surplus grain resulting consumption in the U.S. is 2,000 drate from the typically concentra-from such a cutback would not pounds per year (all but about 150 ted animal diet is either excreted or necessarily find its way to the enacted, the conscious reduction of ening for the self. It is a simple act pounds of it consumed indirectly) stored as edible fat. according to markets of the Third World unless meat consumption by a family, by which we can further attune compared to less than 400 pounds author Frances Lappe. U.S. legislation provided for such. Bread for the World points out, in ourselves to these problems in the of grain being directly consumed Furthermore, Dr. Harlow Hodg-Yet this is precisely the goal, as the light of the maldistribution of hope of working towards an equal yearly by the average Third World son of the Dept. of Agriculture, Bread for the World has stated. resources and inequity in the sharing of all resources by every­person. says that if our forage crops and Until this legislation can be world, is very powerful and enlight-one. Why this concern with food grazing lands were used optimally, distributions? Because the world we could reduce the grain fed to population is expected to climb livestock by SO percent -and still 
Science increases both quantity
from four billion to six and a half get the same quality beef. billion by the year 2,000. An In addition, a shift of 20 percent additional 25 million tons of grain of our grain fed beef to grass are needed a?nually to just keep up feeding would release enough 
and quality of world food supply 
by Chris Brinegar Another discovery in cereal grain genetics which have contributed genetics, which has yet to be fully much to food production. These ·Over the past thirty years, utilized due to agricultural econo­include research in chemical



Food self-sufficiency 
scientific breakthroughs in bio­mics, was uncovered in the labora­fertilizers, the nitrogen fixation chemistry, biology, and particular­tory of Dr. Edwin Mertz at Purdue process, the efficiency of photosyn­
, 

ly plant breeding have resulted in University in 1963. Mertz is thesis and photorespiration. remarkable advances in the quan­currently a visiting chemistry pro­Additional research is being
stressed 111 uillages 
fessor at Notre Dame.

tity and quality of the food supply. conducted on herbicides, pesti­A gene was isolated from a
The much-heralded Green Revo­cides, amino acid supplementation
Developmental economics now mutant popcorn strain which sup­
lution of the mid and late sixties of deficient foods, food processing
by Basil O'Leary stress· making the village self­pressed the formation of a major
was the direct consequence of and storage, and food from uncon­
Ass't Prof. of Non·violence reliant in the production of food wheat breeding experiments con­protein that was especially defi­ventional sources such as single(there are one-half million villages cient in two essential amino acids, · 
ducted by Nobel laureate Norman cell protein, sea vegetation and
Sweets seem to be part of just in India). Where water is begin­while increasing the proportion of a 
Borlaug and co-workers in Mexico, petroleum.
about everyone's daily food intake. ning to be harvested effectively, as minor protein higher in those
followed by rice breeding studies in
No doubt we all need some, if only in the drought prone areas of amino acids. When bred into a Many of the potential benefits of 
the Philippines -both sponsored by the Green Revolution discoveries
to satisfy a "sweet tooth." Yet, Poona, self-reliance means mul­strain of normal corn, the result
the Rockefeller Foundation. 

have been hampered by social,
given the circumstances of severe tiple cropping -rice, wheat. then was a hybrid that yielded slightly 
malnutrition and poverty, sugar, some legume (peas, beans) which An advantage of these new grain less but was substantially more economic and political situations, beyond its taste, has little to offer, provide proteins to humans and varieties is (in) their adaptibility to nutritive due to the doubling of the according to economist Lester different climates and growing Brown. As a result, many findings
as nutritionists point out: no replenish the soil with nitrogen. deficient amino acids that had protein, no minerals, no vitamins. Excessive unemployment over­conditions. Crossing a desirable previously limited the protein may take years to get from labora­In the southwest parts of India throws the laws of comparative value.
characteristic of one species into tory to practical application, or may where there exists assured water advantage and trade to support Further studies have indicated
another, which lacks that quality, never get beyond the experimental --canals, surface wells, percolation offers almost limitless combina­that the protein value of this new stage at all. Many social, econo­
small scale, labor-intensive meth­
tanks --there are also acres of ods of producing food. This ap­tions of new strains, out of which a corn variety approaches that of the mic, and political problems have few can be selected for their been caused by the relatively
sugar cane and huge processing proach already has precedent: in major milk protein, casein, and factories. The lure of sugar cane is 1916 Gandhi advocated outstanding properties. when used as the only protein overnight advances in agricultural 
production.

that it is a cash crop (its price "Swadeshi" -India producing its The most useful discovery has source, it is capable of curing the supported oy the government), has own cloth, symbolized by the been the isolation of "dwarfing" symptoms of kwashiokor, a protein The solution to the food problem a year's growing season and re­spinning wheel, not the capital genes that shorten and strengthen deficiency disease common in un­and to the more general issue of quires little cultivation relative to .intensive textile factory. Today, the stalks of rice and wheat plants. dernourished populations. Since poverty lies not in the scientific 
other crops. John Gilligan, representing the This prevents the grain-laden tops then, similar genes have been realm alone, but in an interdiscipli­
In India malnutrition is epide­Agency for International Develop­from bending over (lodging) which discovered in certain barley and nary approach says Brown. He mic. Because of it, thousands of ment before the House Internation­leads to spoilage or destruction by sorghum species. Unfortunately, stresses that every effort must be children become vulnerable an­al Relations Committee, advocates rodents. These stronger stalks, the prospects for wheat are not made to communicate and coordi­nually to dysentery, cholera, ty­that one-third of its budget be along with other desirable genetic quite as promising and the genetic nate ideas and discoveries between phoid. As Lester Brown has obser­directed to "increased production qualities, allow the plant to synthe­protein improvement of rice is not scientists and non-scientists if sub­ved, in the 1968 Olympic trials not of basic food crops on small size more grain without lodging (up foreseen. stantial progress is to be made in one Indian contestant co:lld qualify farms.'' to twice the amount of traditional Substantial amounts of work are keeping the food supply equal to its for the track and field events. An Assistance is still needed, but species). being done in areas other than ever increasing demand. agronomist, who is teaching tech­the kind that helps people to help
niques to tribal children north of themselves, as the lobby groupBombay, told me that it will take Bread for the World notes -wells, three generations to produce heal­pumps. high yield variety seeds 
-

HUNGER in the U.S.A.
thy, alert children who can live up not the kind that brings a massive 
to their potential. influx of capital intensive projects. The following are facts, compiled showed that most of them weighed than 8 times the wealth of the by the Center for Science in the less and were shorter than thtry bottom SO per cent. 

Public Interest [Washington, D.C.] should be for their ages. One child ,With inflation, the prices fort. concerning hunger in the U.S.A. in four was anemic, with one in cheaper foods which the poor rely three having vitamin deficiencies. upon rise disproportionately. For
~ 

1Prof. Edward Peeples, of Vir­example, from December, 1970 to
I 

ginia Commonwealth University, March, 197S the cost of margarine
u 

,Of the 4.6 million low-income 
estimates that at least 22S,OOO increased 63 per cent while butter
::J 

pregnant and nursing women and American households consume pet increased,8.9 per cent. Hamburgerchildren up to age four in the food. increased 60.3 per cent but porter
>­

country, fewer than 770,000 are ,A USDA Economic Research house steak went up only 38.3 per
CO' 

reached by Federal food programs Service Study showed that low-in­cent. In the same period dried designed to prevent malnutrition come families get more nutrients beans increased by 256.3 per cent! during the first years of life. for each food dollar than do higher ,Since 1950, the average citizen ,Welfare assistance for food 
income families. has doubled his/her consumptionincreased 14.7 per cent for the ,Science magazine reported th at of beef, from 60 pounds to 120 recipients, from 1970-1974, while a study of Korean orphans who pounds.
food costs increased 41.7 per cent. were adopted by American families ,One-third of the children under ,The poor spend a far larger has shown that the adverse effects the age of six exami,ned in a HEW 
!:= 
aX 

portion of their incomes on food of \"alnutrition in early life can be survey showed evidence of retar­
<w 

than do non-poor people. In 1973, largely overcome by improved nut­ded growth. 
CQ 

the Bureau of Labor Statistics rition and an enriched environ­.. Forty per cent of low-income found that the poorest families ment. black children had Vitamin A
0 

(with annual income under S1,SOO) ,During the past five years food deficiencies compared to 10 per
z paid 61 per cent of their incomes prices have risen 183 per cent cent or less among children of
< for food; families with incomes of faster than welfare benefits and 23 white families, according to a 1970 S22,SOO or more pay 12.2 per cent. per cP.:·t faster than food stamp HEW survey. z 
,Presently some 1S.7 million benefits. 1People on welfare and food
-
0:: 

people are getting food stamps. ,200 million bushels of protein stamp programs are expected toC>· Nearly 26 million live below the rich grain is used to brew beer :tnd squeeze adequate nourishment out 
poverty line, with millions more distilled spirits in the U.S". of :~bout 46 cents per meal, an "I had a ne home, ;-wonderful wife, three splendid only slightly above this. ,Forty million people are poor or amount which USDA's nutritionists kids ... but I squandered everything we owned on ,A study of 177 children of near poor in the U.S. The acknowledge will not support a 
·food!" migrant farm workers in New York wealthiest 1 per cent possess more healthy dieta • · 



~--­





========================~=========~thu~Q,~~~,,~ theobserver 
Editor's note: J. K. Schmidt

One or more of these illnesses 
affect virtually every American. 
They contribute to about one 
million deaths and add $15-30 
billion to our national health bill include top experts in the hunger annually. 
field from Congress, Agency for In recent years there has been a yond the reach of many of the poor .. 1 goes ~o the nch, wh~re 1s ~he 
While focusing on nutrition, International Development (AID), great deal of discussion about the The poor are more likely to potential of the oceans for feedmgFood Day '77 will cover a wide the United Nations, private organi­prospect of feeding the world's consume fresh or cured fish than the hungry? The answer 1s that range of food issues. Thes_e include zations, and Third World nations. swiftly accumulating population. the highly processed products. there is no potential unless the 
hunger, both domestic and global; 
In this regard, the oceans have However, in poor countriesthat do hungry acqUire the purcha-smg
As another Food Day obser­
farmer-consumer relations; and the 
suggested an not adequate facilities power the fi~h
vance, CSPI is circulating a petition been as almost have for to enter world 
corporation-dominated food sys­
handling fresh and cured fish, market. And, of course, the 
tem. among health professionals asking unlimited but. as yet, untapped 
source of protein. about 40 percent of the catch is lost acquisition of purchasing power
the Federal Trade Commission to 
''These days, anybody who eats the of Optimists out food to spoilage or contamination. requires that they have incomes
ban advertising sugary, point that 
is a captive of the corporations," Aqualculture, the domestication substantially higher than those
sticky foods from children's tele­resources from the oceans can 
siad Food Day coordinator Barbara supply us with enourmous quanti­of fresh and salt water plant and which are projected under current
vision. The signatures of doctors,
Gottlieb. "Price, flave, food purity, dentists, nutritionists, nurses, and ties of animal and plant life that do animal life, is not the solution to development strategies. even health hazards in our food-­the hunger problem either. Tech-In short, the problem with food
dietitians will be presented to the not require domestication. We do 
these things depend not on far­FTC on Food Dav. not have to grow food grains to feed nology in aquaculture is so expen-from the oceans is the same as the mers, not on consumers, but on the the fish as we do with cattle and sive that aquaculture is only"profit-problem with ~ood produced ?n food industry. Food Day can be a Numerous national organizations poultry, and we can harvest sea­able if the product can be sold at a land: there ts enough of tt, great opportunity to organize and are lending their support to Food weed (and the like) without making very high price. Oysters, shrimp, according to World Bank expert change that, both through in­Day. The United Auto Workers any more demands on arable land salmon and caviar could be produc-Mahbub ul Haq, but it simply is not creased awareness and through National Council of Churches: and without the expense of mech­ed this way, but the poor would not distributed equitably. About thirty action." Children's Foundation, and Nation­anized agriculture. be eating them. times -as much of the earth's 
CSPI, a non-profit research al Federation of Business and It is true that the oceans have a Since World War II there has resources (in production, process­group based In Washington, works Professional Women's Clubs are greater capacity for feeding the been an enormous increase in the ing packaging, distribution etc.) with concerned eaters, "food acti­examples of groups spreading the world's hungry millions than is world catch. But this is largely due are required to feed an American vists," and community groups in word about Food Day and encour­presently being utilized, but is very to the building of very sophisticat-than are required to feed a citizen all fifty states. It encourages aging their local chapters to organ­unlikely that the hungry will profit ed and very expensive fishing of India, Haq has stated. As long church congregations, food co-ops, ize. from the oceans' potential in the fleets. These fleets also produce a as the poor lack the means to pay schools and colleges, labor unions, The Food Day advisory board short run or even in the ''medium'' product that is too expensive for for food, thereby diverting food 
the world's poor. Because ofthese from their direction, large in­
senior citizen groups, farmers, include Carol Foreman, executive run. 
government officials, and health director of Cunsumer Federation of The oceans produce about 70 fleets, for the most part, we have creases in food production will have and professtional associations to America; Senator Mark Hatfield; million tons of fish and shellfish reached a maximum sustainable no meaning for the poor. plan local Food Day observances. comedian and social critic Dick annually. Of this about 37 percent ..,......,-----=:-~--------------'--------------H 
Hundreds of communities have Gregory; Rep. Benjamin Rosenthal is "reduced". That is, it is made observed Food Day over the past (D-NY) and Rep. Pat Schroeder into fertilizer, animal feed and two years with fairs, teach-ins, (D-Co.); consumer advocate Bess other products. These products fasts, farmers' markets, commu­Myerson; Art Simon, Director of could be going to feed the world's nity meals, gardening programs, Bread for the World; and Bishop poor, but they are, for the most and other events. These activities, Thomas Gumbleton of Detroit. part, consumed by the developed 
HUNGER in the World 
The foUowing are facts, compiled ters of the world's fish catch, er has estimated that the same by the Center for Science in the according to Georg Borgstrom. amount of food that is ffeding 210 
Public interest [Washington, D.C.] 1If the U.S. population reduced million Americans could adequate­concerning hunger in the world. its meat consumption by 15 per ly feed 1.5 billion Chinese on an cent, by having one meatless day average Chinese diet. per week, this would free 15 million 1Cattle require 16 pounds of Hhe developed world, with 28 tons of grain--3 times the total vegetable protein to produce one per cent of the world's population, amount of food aid given by the pound of meat. Since cattle graze consumes some two-thirds of world U.S. in 1976. part of their life, they usually grain production and three-quar-,Harvard nutritionist Jean May-consume seven pounds of grain for every pound of meat produced. 1The U.S. controls a greater percentage of the world's grain than the Arab countries do of the world's oil supplies. 1The current growth in world population--2 per cent per year-­will require the doubling of world food production in little more than a generation. ,The U.S. in 1975 gave 114 of 1 per cent of our GNP for deelopment assistance, far below the UN goal of 1 per cent. The U.S. ranks 13th among 16 aid-giving countries. 1The world demand for grain increa!!eS each year by 30,000,000 tons. Twerity-two million tons are due to p opulation increase. Eight million tons are due to demands of increased affluence. ,Almost all of the 50,000,000 acres of farmland idled in the U.S. in the 1960's is now in production, thus eliminating one of the world's last grain reserves. ,Present grain reserve levels in the world are 100,000,000 tons. This is 31 days's reserves, com­pared to our 105 days reerves in i961j, according to Worldwatch Institute. 10ne ton of fertilizer produces five tons of food in this nation. One ton produces at least ten tons of food in developing countries. 

Food Day nationally focuses on nutrition 
The third annual Food Day, a organized by volunteer coordin­national day of education and ators at the grass roots, are action on domestic and world food designed to teach people in the issues, is celebrated today, says its community the reality of hunger; 
sponsor the Center for Science in the basics of sound nutrition; and the Public Interest (CSPI). how the food supply has changed. This year's Food Day will focus Alternative food systems, federal special attention on personal nutri­feeding programs for the hungry, tion. It will examine how the typical and state and national food policies American diet--fatty, sugary, and will be discussed in workshops, over-processed--contributes to hearings and conferences organ­such widespread diseases as obes­ized by local activists. ity, heart disease, cancer of the 
On Food Day itself, Senatorcolon, diabetes, and tooth decay. 
Mark Hatfield (R-OR) and CSPI 
--------·------------------~~~~~~~~~----~ 



FOOD DAY 
A national da~ of education and action on domestic and world food issues 
Developing nations unable to benefit from oceans' potential 
nations. yield. That is the oceans can The rest of the 70 million ton produce about 70 million tons ofby J. K. Schmdit 
r 

P.O.BoxQ 
Decide by Merit 
Dear Editor: 

I would like to put a dissenting opinion on record with regard to the article entitled "Reverse Dis­crimination" in last Thursday's Observer. Since the symposium on this subject that was held last week did not reallv address itself to the question, but assumed affirmative action as necessary and good and proceeded from there, I would like to answer Ms. Herrera and Mr. Maloney. 
'The argument put forward in the article does not (and can not) deny the fact that affirmative action and related minority admissions programs are indeed discrimina­tory in their nature. Whether or not this discrimination is constitu­tional is the issue presently before the Supreme Court, not whether or not that discrimination is justified, by whatever reasoning. However, I believe that the arguments used by Ms. Herrera and Mr. Maloney in defense of affirmative action are not valid. The argument that since minority students have not grown up in the mainstream of white, middle-American culture, their MCATs, LSATs and GPAs are not indicative of their intelligence may be true, but it ignores the fact that these students will have to read textbooks written in English, they will have to use mathematics--in short, they will have to deal, in 
First & formost on our list is the Dancing Irish. In their present campaign to stimulate interest in their upcoming tryouts we have noticed they have! been extremely sexist. They have openly adver­tised only for women & have placed posters only in women's halls. We feel that since in years prior to women's basketball girls have tried to walk on the varsity, men should be given the opportunity to stand in front of the ACC full houses and shake their bodies. 
Our next complaint is directed at Edmund Price. Tlhe dining hall has feature menus that remind one of Around the World in Eighty Days. We would like to suggest "Other American'' Night featuring hot dogs, apple pie, and the girl next door. 
Other examples of these discri­minatory tactics would include: 
-Refusal by ACC security to allow a group of "Other Americans" 
passage to the main floor for a pick-up game on the afternoon of Saturday March S. 
-Failure of the '77 Dome to include pictures of the Yuyal Trio and other classical musicians. 
We intend to bring attention to these problems by holding a swim­in in the reflecting pool of the Memorial Library from 2 to 5 a.m. tomorrow, followed by an eat-in with farmer Brown's pigs the next day. 
Pat Shepherd 
Fritz X. Shadley 
Mike O'Strander 
Ken Sobolewski 
*Observer 


Editorials 
their studies and m their careers, on the terms of the majority culture, regardless of where they practice. The second reason given, that minorities should be recruited so that they will graduate and go 1ack to their home communities to 
>ractice. has no basis in fact that I .•now of. In fact, the new doctor or lawyer or accountant, having fought hard to get that degree, could hardly be faulted for settino up practice in a locale that wa~ more financially rewarding than the community in which h8 was born. 
The way to correct past discrim­ination against minorities in educa­tional opportunities, and to insure the availability of vital skills in all communities is not to lower aca­demic standards, because this does a disservice, not only to the schools involved, but to the minority students admitted and to society as well. The answer lies in upgrading :nner city education to the level of the best public school in the mburbs, so that minorities may :ompete with whites on an equal, non-discriminatory basis for ad­nission to colleges and profes­;ional schools. This is admittedly nuch more easily said than done, Jut I believe it strikes at the root of 
he problem of the scarcity of ninorities in the professions. 
John J. Cavanaugh 
'Other Americans' 
lear Editor: . Due to some recent articles in the 
•bserver, we have become in­
, !asingly aware of "subtle inuen­1s of separatist tactics employed 
lntro to 


Captivity 
Dear Editor: 

The suggestion by Dean Roemer 
that a night in jail would be "a 
good educational opportunity" is 
very well taken. In view of the 
benefits of such an experience, it 
is not inconceivable that this ed­
ucational "gem" be incorporated 
into our university curriculum, 
perhaps, "Jail 101" or "Introduc­
tion to Captivity." 

It's about time this university 
assumes the responsibility of pre­paring us for the "real" would. Many students graduate from No­tre Dame w'ithout the experience of incarceration. And even more so, how many of us will have a mild heart attack, go bald, or even have to wear a neck brace before we graduate. These are other good educational experiences that are presently unprovided for by the University yet coulld serve as good lessons for future situation. The realization of thes€~ practical exper­einces as courses should be looked into. What good is a college education if nothilllg is accomplish­ed but intellectual growth or pre­paration for a career? · 
We need to know the realities of the world and we need to know them now. These are our learning years ?nd we must use them to our best advantage. Jailing stude.nts is only a start. If this program is successful, we can surge forth into new areas. Some suggestions: mock wars, students being struck by blunt objects, minor car acci­dents or even the simulated death of a loved one. All or some of these 
I '· ..~c;,f!ain, ~eR~!l!ent~ ••~d/or,,.-.~~ings c?,u}~.~.cur to, ~n~ ,o,f.~s at ! cttons ofthe'ihuversity."' . some ttme tn our nves. The 
question is: Are we prepared for them? 
Dean Roemer has taken the initiative. But the success of these programs would be totally up to us -the students. Granted, there will be some injuries, both mental and physical, but what a small price it is to pay for first-hand experience in life. This is just another example of 
the never-ending of th  university  
of  Notre  Dame  to  Jucate  the  
"total person."  

Tom Balcerek John McAustin 

Who's in Charge? 
Dear Editor: 

After reading Thursday's Obser­ver I was so overwhelmed by the absurdity of the reasoning in an article. I felt I had to comment. 
The lead story featured Fr. Lally contradicting himself several times in describing the RA selection procedure. He says "five out of e1grt" students fit into the financ­ial need category; yet this year less than SO percent would have been accepted. Fr. Lally claims "that RA jobs would still go to the ·'best qualified"; yet, later on in the article it was stated six of Lewis Hall's top seven choices would have been rejected. Similar results occurred in Keenan and other halls. My favorite comment of Lally's was that rectors had "for­gotten or not taken seriously," the decision of Feb. 1976. He never explains that he had spent the last year telling rectors, RA' s and potential RA 's in effect not to take the decision seriously. Either Fr. Lally was being blatantly deceptive or there, is a lack of communication in the Office of Student Affairs. 
Taking into account the rector's disapproval of using financial need as a prerequisite for selecting RA 's, the rumors about the Provost interfering in the RA selection process and the state of confusion in the Office of Student Affairs, one has to wonder who really makes the decisions there. 
Michael G. Welsh '77 
Assert Your Rights 
Dear Editor: 

As of Tuesday night Dean Roemer has deemed it necessary to cancel one of the few activities in recent months that had the poten­tial for the entire student body's participation and enjoyment. This decision, in conjunction with the 
rectors' /rectresses' position of total . 
mistrust and paranoia towards the 
students, exemplifies the adminis­
tration 's inability to recognize the 
students' view. . 

We feel that the "hierarchy" of 
Notre Dame has carried its policy of 
"In Loco Parentis" one More step 
too far. It is time they realize that 
we are not children, but responsi­
hie adults who require a medium 
conducive to freedom of social 
activity as well as intellectual 
growth. It seems extremely sad 
that a University which prides itself 
on the development of the total 
person should see fit to continually 
stifle the students' social 
imagination. 

In response, we urge you to "unofficially" sleep out on the North Quad Friday night to protest this unceasing and blatant abuse of students' rights. 
Action is imperative. If we do not constructively respond to this injustice Now we will be assuring ourselves of further instances of the Adminstration disregard for the students' right to be recognized. 
Paul B. Callahan Jameslacoponi , .••••.Lawrence McCarthy · Steven C. Sallmando 
DOONESBURY by Garry Trudeau 
.. liND IJND£R Til£ FINAL SIR, aJUlD YOIJ eXPLAIN V!t!NAM SCTTli:MENT, tv& TOM& ti/1/Y YOIJ COUWN'T PR/JM/5130 tllffii£¥(./JJ(J/1£ or HAVG GOTTEN lHG SAM& T,W~ £qUAL ROt£FOR 7GRMS IN 19~ TIIUS 7J.I£ VIETCONG, ANO A /IVOIOIN6 THE CARNAGE,
COMMfJMENT TO POSlli/AR &'TC. OF THE NEXT FOU~ ////)/--YMRS~ 
I 

BliOIUSE tJNTIL 1973, H/INOI INSISTCO ON SHARING I'LL POtUGR! tuf!ATA TOTAU..Y Wl/0 BAVE HANDLE IJNElJUCATED QUESTION! 
TH&M 7D YOU? TH/5, MR. 

Y()(/N6 MAN, lAIIlE/?£ 00 
a/JIO?OUT W&IN­

YOU6tT7l-I&SE IOE//5?1 WITH IT! BURGER..
--..:..... 
I ~ 
~ 

opinion !!!!!!!!!!!!!!7!!!!!!!!!!!!!1!!!!!!!!!!!!1!!!!!!!!!!!!1!!!!!!!!!!!!1!!!!!!!!!!!!1!!!!!!!!!!!!1!!!!!!!!!!!! 


'Kids,' 'Parents,' Kill Sleep-In 
~~~~~~mike mccord 
I 

To be frank .I am disappointed. in a large crowd. However, I After spending many .hours talking persisted and asked Roemer to give 
. to various administrators and hall the Notre Dame students a chance rectors and now having the sleep-to sho~ some social maturity., 1 out cancelled by Dean Roemer, I emphasized to Roemer that' the think I have a right to be frustrated. purpose of the sleepout was to get However, I would like to emphasize away from an' armory party-type that I do not entirely blame Dean atmosphere. Instead I wished to Roemer for cancelling the s·leep-create a mellow atmosphere where out. In my talks with Dean Roemer the students could act maturely I found him very r~asonable and .while enjoying the stars and the open to my ideas. Sure, I am upset compa:1ionship of their friends. I he has now given the slumber party really believe such an· atmosphere the ax after giving bis approval, but c~uld have be:n created, especially because of his position, that is his w1th the mus1c and the bedtime prerogative. Instead of blaming story I had planned as entertain-Roemer for not giving us a chance ment. ' to have a good time in a mellow After talking to Dean . Roemer setting under the stars. I think we some half a dozen times, he gave should put the blame where it is his consent for the sleepout. By due, on a combination of the giving me his consent, he was childish ' social atmosphere that putting himselfon the line. He was pervades this campus and an putting his trust in the Notre Dame , administration which tries to fill the students to act with discretion parental role. while having lf' great time. ,How­· Here we are at the University of ever, after Monday night's raucous , Notre Dame, a fine upstanding events in back of Keenan and place of learning. Sure, Notre Stanford. Roemer's skepticism 1n Dame has its good points: a nice-the success of a massive sleepout of lookilig campus, good food at the 3,000 students was reinforced. dining halls and a fine administra-· In cancelling the sleepout, I tion looking out for our best cannot b4ame Dean Roemer. It is interests. However, we must also his job to maintain order and if he look at our school's weak points, feels that a sleepout would be too and there are some glaring weak much of a fiasco, then he has the points to be found. Besides being a right to cancel it. I do not blaine ' place of learning, a university is a anyone for the sleepout's failure, place where young adults ' can but I do admit I am disappointed. · interact and continue to grow. Instead of blaming the administra-
By coming to N.D., all of us have tion .for cancelling the sleepout. we · left. out homes and families. No the students should blame our­longer are our parents looking over selves. Why is the administration us and setting restJ,"ictions. Now at so skeptical of our. ability to act the ages between 18 and 22 we are maturely? Why, because we con­supposedly adults who should be stantly reinforce. their opinions of able to decide what is right and our immaturity. We never show wrong on our own. However we do them that we are young adults who not have that right at N.D. True, demand _the privileges of grown we are adults and free from our . men and women. Come on, Notre parents' authority, but by coming Dame students, it is not the to N.D. we suddenly find a new administration which causes the authonty trying to fill our parents' childish soCial atmosphere ·on this shoes. It would be nice having the campus; it is the students them­administration acting as a father if, selves. In, closing, I would like to we were. children, but we are ~ncourage the Notre Dame stu­supposedly no longer kids. dents to-take a close look ·at 
However, at times I believe the themselves and their school. If you administration is indeed right in · want to change this school do treating us like children, when all · something about it. Take ~orne too often we dol8ct like repressed responsibility and break away from twelve-year-olds. When I first ap-the parental role of the admini­proached Dean Roemer and the stration. Who knows, maybe even hall rectors about permitting a someday the students will gain the slumber party, their initial reaction respect of the administrators mak­
· was that Notre ·Dame-students are ing an· idea such as a c~mpus too immature to handle themselves sleepout possible. ' Thursday, April 21, 19i7 

the observer 
9 


Professor finds attitudes toward energy 'indifferent' 
day night. "Most 0{ the things he ments. while there may be dis­SOUTH BEND Ind. [AP] •· indicated are probably accurate." agreement on what to do. I thinkPresident Carter accurately depict­
people are saying to themselves

ed the nation's energy shortage, Stock conducted a survey by mail 
something has to be done." Stock

"but most' people will be indiffer­late last summer, the question­
said. "It's merely a question of 

ent or moderately impressed until naires going to ali .members of 
what. While his program may not

the details come out,'' says a Notre Congress, to 510 consumers and 
be accepted in total or in part. I

Dame professor who conducted a 505 business executives --all 
think it shows something is going

nationwide survey of public atti­randomly selected. The responses 
to be done in the foreseeable

tudes. reflected public opinion of the 
future. One thing our survey

energy problem before last win­
Carter revealed his plan yesterday showed was a pessimism whether
ter's severe weather.
for combating the energy problem. 
If nothing else, Stock said, Congress is going to do something. 
RenewaI pr~rams
"It was a very good presenta­
!;:~m~:~.~~ange that pessimism to

Carter's speech should restoretion, and I was favorably impress­some confidence that the govern­
ed," James Stock, professor of The professor said Carter's big 
to spur gro h
ment is trying to solve the energy
marketing in the school of business job now is to educate the public.
problem.
administration, said of the Presi­"At this point. our studies [continued from page 4] "We're still investigating new 
dent's address to the nation Mon-"One inference from his com-indicate a lot of questions about the South Bend's quality of life as rated opportunities.·· Wilkins<'ll sires-energy crisis," he said. by the Midwest Research Institute. sed. "We're h5 I<' "~5 pn ,·ent Stock said increased gasoline an independent research group.$ home on down1<1wn renewal. and taxes "may not be accepted verv In addition to general publicity. we're not swpping until it's <l<'llt'...


Free University to be 
well. I think we've seen over th~ South Bend 2000 is considering the Anothe;· rcncwa]-,,riented insti·• • past year that higher prices not due development of a one-block endo-tution is the Centurv Center whid1 to ~axes did not restrict driving sed mall instead of the pedestrian is sdtedukd to <lpt•n in N,,n·mbn.
1n sess1on next year 
habtts. That particular aspect of mall which lines three blocks. The fat·ilitv ,·ontains a ,.,,nn·nti,,n the plan I don't think will be "There is a need for a mall to house hall. art gallery. nlllununit\-<'<'11·University.
by Kathleen Connelly effective. It will reduce driving retailing operations to provide the tt'rt·d museum. and perf,,rming
The concept was revitalized and somewhat, but 1 thing increasing attraction for going downtown to arts area with a {100-seat theater.
reinstituted last summer by Special the tax on automobiles will have a shop in addition to going to recital and rehearsal fllllllls amiProject Chairman Charlie Moran
The Free University will be in direct effect." downtown to work." Wilkinson sllwage spact'. An·onling to .lad;
who will be succeeded next year by
session next semester in response Stock said about 72 per cent of stated. Sheehan. director of prngram dn-
Dan McCormick. 1
to the success of the program this the 65 senators and representatives So far. various plans for an d•'PI11cnt. the t't'ntn will act a" a
The Free University is a function.
semester. A total of 1.800 enrolled ;ovh~ responded to the survey enclosed mall have been unsun·es-"general stimulant to linaneial and 
of the Student Union and is staffed
for classes although an enrollment mdtcated support for increased sfull in attracting enough tenants to corporate activitv downtown."
by volunteers. Those interested in
of only 800 to 900 was anticipated. taxes on gas-guzzling automobiles. make the projed economically feas-Vari1ll1s construdion pn1jel'ts can
further information or wishing to
Registration for the fall Free About 55 per cent of the 136 ible. Most retailers' corporate he traced to Centurv ('enter. "It's
volunteer to help with registration
University classes will be May 3 consumers who responded agreed policies have been to settle in the the reason Whitcon.lh Keller chose 
may call the Student Union at 7757.
and 4 in LaFortuny. Classes will with that proposal. suburban malls. kontlnucd on pa~c 101 begin the §_econd week in Septem­
r------------~----------------~-----------------------------­
ber and will continue for three to four weeks at the discretion of the instructor. 
This session's registration will 
Why Is This Animal Still Hiding?
be computerized. Charlie Moran, chairman of the Free University, . said that the major flaw in the 
program last semester was a lack 
Because the Emmett Kelly Jr. CIRCUS is really
of organization. The computeriza­tion of registration will make registering a much more organized and efficient process. St. Mary's campus for An Tostal 
Some courses to be offered next coming to 
.. semester are the Art of Beermak­ing, Photography. Flying, Parachu­ting, Anxiety Training, the Art of Graffiti, and Nutrition. 

Gentle Thursday , April 21 at 3:00pm & 5:00pm
Booklets containing a complete listing and description of courses will be distributed in the dorms and will also be available in LaFortune by May 1. There will be 47 courses offered this fall as compared with 64 lasf fall because fewer persons Come in time for the ping-pong drop : 4:45 in SMC field near the dining hall. 
have volunteered to teach. 
The most popular cq,urse offered Over 250 Prizes Available!!! last session, Bartending, taught by Phil Volpe had an enrollment of 400 
Popcorn, peanuts, cotton candy, hot dogs caramel apples, pop . 
. persons. However, it will not be I available next fall due to a lack of I instructors. I 
The Free University dates from I In case of rain" shows will be at 3:00, 5:00, andd 7:00 in Stepan Center 1969 . It was· created to provide I alternative courses, espeCially I geared toward ·that period of poli­I SMC & NO STUDENTS , FACUL TV & FAMILIES FREE WITH ID 
tical unrest. ·As political act_ivism I waned so did interest in the Free 

\ 






Carry-Out Specials Now thru Graduation 
-.J 
Fifth Seagram 7 Reg $5.45 NOW $3.99 
Vodka Reg $5.40 


Fifth Jacques Bonnet Pink Champaigne 
12 pk Old Style 
N.R. Bottles $2.79 








1 0 the observer Thursday, April21, 19n
------------=-~__;::_;.-'-::....:......-----------=-----=-­




FBI persistent in search for NWLF 
zoo and justifiably so," James Seitz, superintendent of parks, stated. "Currently, we're in the process of floating a $2,170,000 bond issue, $1.5 million to be use{ for an entire zoo renovation." 
The remaining funds will cover various other park improvements. $200,000 will be used to develop 30 acres on Edison Road for the Paul 
F. Boehm Park. Tennis courts will be added to Riverside Manor and Voorde, and lighting will be instal­led in Bellville Park and Marshall­lield. Downtown riverside areas .viii undergo constant develop­nent. 
Industrial expansion focuses its 1ttraction to manufacturers and ight industry. According to Jrammer, the Airport Industrial 'arks by the Michiana Regional \irport will undergo considerable irowth during the next five to ~even years. Three of its phases 1ave developed over 250 usable teres with approximately SO busi­!esses. A fourth phase began ievelopment last year on 65 addi­:ional acres. 
Omniplex, a manufacturing-light ndustrial center at Portage and =!llwood downtown, began develop-' nent in late October last year. • \ccording to James Cronk, opera­ions manager, construction is com­tleted, covering 19 acres with .87,000 square feet. Current enants include Junior Achieve­nent and Midwest Queen with .vailable facilities for 25 additional 
·ICcupants. Douglas Simmons, assistant dir­
ctor of the airport authority, ··utlined plans for development of a nulti-modal terminal system at the
' .irport site. The total project ·1ould require $8.6 million for
' 
evision the present terminal, ex­~ •anding ramps, revamping roads, elocating utility sites and building tew maintenance and safety buil­
' 
:lings. 
'r 
The system's federal financing
,I 
'Blue Mantle'

r' 

r-announces staff 

SAN FRANOSCO (AP) -The gation to determine who they are,'' The FBI lists 49 terrorist bom­
FBI has been dogging the trail of says FBI spokesman Frank Per­bings in the San Francisco Bay
the New World Liberation Front for rone. "With each bombing we area in 1975 and 1976. The NWLF 
nearly three years, but admits little hope to learn more and more which claimed responsibility for 28 of 
success so far in smashing the might help pinpoint who they are.'' them. The FBI said many of the 
bomb-and-run terrorist _group. The NWLF first surfaced in bombings were unclaimed and a 
The FBI can't say how wide­August 1974, taking responsibility number of "one-shot" radical 
spread the underground group is or for a bomb blast at General Motors groups took responsibility for the 
how many members it has. offices in Burlingame south of others. 
"We are conducting our investi-here; and has kept active since. No one has been killed or injured 

City planning to improve future 
[continued from page 9] depends on the demonstration of a terminal expansion as a threat to
viable multi-modal terminal, inclu­
the area,'' Sheehan noted. South Bend's future. "Our advan­
ding bus, rail and air services.
"It will also be bringing in tage was being the hub of the
"Without a relocation from the
outside money through conven­transportation network,'' he sta­
South Shore railroad, the three · 
tions," he continued. "Right now, ted. "We have lost that monopo­
million dollar federal grant is
we depend on Notre Dame football ly."
gone" Simmons stated. "Howev­
weekends to bring ill· considerable "If we don't operate off a 
er, since the viability of rail
amount of money. Soon, we'll be common transportation system, we 
transportation is doubtful in the
bringing in business the other 46 will continue to decline as a city,"
future, perhaps we'll be able to
weekends of the year." Doyle continued, adding, "South
demonstrate a multi-modal system
Sheehan emphasized Century Bend will disappear, and we'll be
without it."

Center's role in community cultural known as Michiana. Even the activities. "As we involve more According to Simmons, ramps airport is not called the South Bend and more citizens in planning our and utility site construction will Airport, but Michiana." programs, we will bring people start this summer. Terminal According to Brammer, the fu­downtown and cause other spiil­revision may begin in late fall, ture development of South Bend offs in the community." depending on the decision concer­will be a slow process. "People 
South Bend recreational develop­ning the multi-modal demonstra­expecting big changes in a short ment is centered in the renovation tion grant. · amount of time will be disappoin­of Pottawatomi Zoo. "We've been Attorney Dick Doyle views the t ted," he stated. receiving a lot of criticism about the as a result of bombings acknowled­ged by the NWLF. 
Recent attacks have centered on the Pacific Gas & Electric Co., which has been bombed three times in the past 10 days, each incident causing major damage to company transformer stations. PG&E serves most of Northern and 
1 central California. Utility spokesman Mike Dunstan says that of the 19 bombings or attempted bombings aimed at the utility since Jan. 1, 1975, the NWLF has claimed responsibility for 13 bombings and two attempts in which bombs failed to explode. The utility is sensitive about the attacks and their prevention. 
The terrorists have demanded that PG&E provide free electricity for the poor and elderly on fixed incomes and that the utility stop seeking rate increases. 
PG&E professes no unhappiness with the progress of the FBI investigation. "We're doing our free-lance investigation,'' Dunstan admits, "but only what is neces­sary to protect ourselves." 
Another favorite target is the San Francisco Board of Supervisors the city's equivalent of a city council, and various city officials. Bombs have exploded at two supervisors' homes and demands have followed for improved jail conditions. 
The NWLF typically gives no advance notice of bombings. Generally, within an hour after a blast is reported, one or more news outlets will receive a telephone call, claiming responsibility for the blast and giving a statement of demands or directions to a communique. 
'I'll Quit' to be shown tomorrow 

A film concerning the problem drinker entitled I'll Quit Tomorrow will be presented today at the Continuing Education Center's audio visual theater at 4 and 7 p.m. 
The Alcohol Counseling service reminds students with alcohol­related problems to attend Alcoho­lics Anonymous meetings at Holy Cross House on Tuesday, W ednes­day or Saturday evenings at 8, or an Alan on meeting Wednesdays at 6:45p.m. at Memorial Library, or a 
Students on Alcohol Problems meeting Tuesday at 6 p.m. 
mue MBDtle editor Suzi Puhl .nnounced yesterday that St. Ma­y's senior pictures will be taken by :Jary Mills during the first two veeks of school next fall. 
Sign-ups will be at final registra­ion in August. 
Puhl also announced her new taff for next year. Nancy Miller till be assistant editor, Silvana 1oty as photo editor, and Janet >rael the yearbook's business edit· r. 
A meeting for students interes­~d in joining the yearbook staff rill be held in the Blue Mantle ' ffice in Regina Hall basement at :30 p.m. Wednesday, Puhl an­ounced. 
•-..-.-.-•..-:.~.":'..~;~·'Y·.-:-.• ..•.:•......""'..";•~,.:.;=i.J-...,-,J .·J·.-... tl.: .1. ••• 
You'll mi.$s 24% savings and all the extras, too. 
Continental's got a good deal going for you next time Continental Airlines. And remember, if you can't you fly to one of our many domestic destinations-our fly Continental, try to have a nice trip anyway. Economy Excursion Fares* give you 24% savings all sum­'continental will provide information regarding flights and number of 
mer long, or you can skip a meal and save 10% on o~r seats available. Purchase ticket within 10 days after r~servations are con­
firmed. request space at least 14 days prior to date of travel. stay 7-30 days. Economy Fares, good any time of the year. 24% discount applies from 6/ I 177-9/15177. All other times our 2!1% discount 
To put you in the mood for your vacation, we've got applies. Fares and savinf,ls subject to change without notice. the only Coach Pub in the Sky on board our wide-bodied !:>C·lO's, plus filmed concerts, comedy and sports. And our spacious 727's offer free stereo, overhead storage and a middle seat that folds down when unoccupied to give 
you lots of room to relax or spread out the books. Don''t forget to ask about our special travel programs, such as our California Campus Tours, California Fly/Drive Vacations or Yucatan Safari Holidays. For more information, call your Travel Agent. or 
The Proud Bird with the Golden Tail. 
: 41'.. -"•••... ·. ' ......... 

Thursday, April 21, 1977 

the observer 

Women honored at atJlletic banquet 
-
by Laurie Reising Women's Sports Editor 

Notre Dame honored its women athletes at the second annual Women's Athletic Banquet held Tuesday night in the Faculty Dining Room. Acting as emcee for the event was Women's Athletic Co-ordinator, Astrid Hotvedt. 
It was a historical occasion in that for the first time in Notre Dame's 132 year history, Women received varsity monograms from the Athletic Department. Both Women's Fencing and Tennis have acheived varsity status within· the last two years and the outstanding athletes of these two sports were recognized for their achievements via varsity letters. 
In Tennis, senior Jane Lammers and sophomore Mary Shukis were recognized for their outstanding records. Lammers finished the season winning 11 of her 12 matches and Shukis compiled a ten and two record for the year. 
Presenting the awards to the girls was Director of Athletics, Edward "Moose" Krause, whyo not only commented on the histori­cal importance of the event, but also on the fact that Lammers' father had played basketball under him at Notre Dame a few years back. 
The Fencing Team, who com­pleted the season with a 14-1 record, honored three of its mem­bers, juniors Kathy Valdiserri and Cathy Buzard, and senior Chris Marciniak. Their coach, Tom Coy, bestowed the letters on the girls and stressed the fact that "one shows their best and does tht?ir 
NOTICES 

Greyhound bus to Chicago. Leaves Main Circle every Friday at 5:45. Call Tom at 8338 tor seat reser­vations. 
Dancin' Irish Try Out Clinics start Sunday April 24 in LaFortune Ball­room at 1 p.m. Open to NO junior, sophomore and freshmen women. 
Accurate, fast typing. Mrs. Donoho. 232-0746. Hours: 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. 
Niles Auction 802 Fort St. 684­6954 or 684-4671. Auction every Friday 7 :30. We buy and sell furniture, appliances, antiques, and misc. items daily 12:00 p.m. to 6 p.m. 
NEED TYPING? Executary, Inc. Professional Typing Service. 10 typists -various typestyles. Term papers: $.85 page. Resumes: $2.00 page. Call 232-0898. 
Become a part of NO Memorabilia The commemorative shirt: "M.V.P. : ND-USF 3-5-77" Stop by 304 Dillon. 1770. 
Water Safety Instructors current certification. Summer church camp positions. Equal Opportunity Em­ployer. Send resume attn: Pat, 333 
W. Colfax, South Bend, Ind. 46601 
FOR RENT 

Girls rooms for rent In nice house close to Logan Center for summer. $50 mo. 233-2613. 
Nice 3 bedroom house for rent during summer. Close to Logan Center. $100 mo. 259-7488. 
Hickory Village. Sublease for sum­mer. Studio apartment. $125 per month. Call 272-8006 late evenings. 
Summer lease from June 1 to August 25. Near NO -4 bedroom and 5 bedroom furnished houses. 1 bedroom and 3 bedroom furnished apartments. Call 234-2626. 
5 bedroom house, real nice, large living room and kitchen, fully fur­nished, close to campus, has burglar alarm, call Charlie Moore 232-7180. 
LODGE CABINS ON LAKE MICH+ IGAN FOR RENT by days, week, month. Only 30 min. from camr-us. Gintaras Resort, 15860 Lake Shor Rd. Union Pier, Mich. 616-469­3298. 
Rooms for rent this summer. Very reasonable, and just a few blocks from Notre Dame. Phone 277-3604. 
Two bedroom house to rent. Sum­mar and-or school year. 1012 Eddy Street. S 120 mo. plus utilities. Call Oddies Harris at 232-8563. 
~ bedrooms, furnished apartment within walking distance of campus. Call William Hill, 232-1724. Sum­mer occupancy only. 
Summer renters wanted. 3 bedroom house, furnished. Very reasonable. Close to campus. Call 283-3626. 
best when they compete in sports." 
He singled out Marciniak, who will be going on to medical school next year, as an example that "given time, patience, endurance, you can do well in both sports and studies." 
Sr. John Jones delivered the invo cation to the group preceeding their meal and afterwards awards for the non-varsity spans were announced. Basketball was the first club sport recognized as co-captains Carol Lally and Maure­en Maloney distributed certificates to their teammates. 
Then it was their turn to receive, as Maloney, a senior, was named winner of the Sportsmanship Award and Lally was voted by her teammates at the Most Valuable Player. 
Field Hockey was the next sport on the agenda and here two girls shared MVP distinction. On of­fense, Mary Ann Dooley was chosen and for defense it was Patty De Coste. 
Sailing, Notre Dame's only purely co-ed sport, one where there is actual male-female competition, was recognized for its contribution to the women's athletic program. Senior Meme Hanson, a veteran of four years was honored as most able "mate." It was Ms. Hanson's second such award, for last year she was named as best sailor on the team. 
The last club sport so honored was Women's Crew. Coach Fred Heydrich received a trophy as thanks for his two years of coaching and four additional years of assis­tance and encouragement. Also applauded were the senior rowers of the team Carol Latrotrlea-,--"Mary Fitzsimons and Joanne Gormley. 
Following club sports were the special interest groups. The Dancing Irish honored its captains Becky Thornton and Mary Ann Shilala and announced their suc­cessors for the 77-78 year as being Juniors Cary Radd and Sandy Stohrer. In track and field sopho­more Sue Behnke and freshman Helen Weber were singled out for their contributions of ''time and energy." 

Others recognized at the banquet included Dr. Thomas Kelly, head of non-varsity sports and Senior Ei­leen O'Grady, interhall co-ordina­tor and Notre Dame Women's Sports Editor Emeritus. 
The final award of the evening was bestowed upon Hotvedt. As the crowd rose in a standing ovation, Bonita Bradshaw pre sented a bouquet of roses saying "because of Astrid, Notre Damt Women's sports is on the move anc should stay on the move." Ir thanking everyone for the award Ms. Hotvedt set next year's goah for women's sports. These includec the advancement of interest group~ to club status and the raising o. field hockey and basketball to tht varsity level. 

Summer rental furnished, four-bed-'Classified Ads 
room house. $100.00 a month. Phone 277-3604. 
For rent for next September. Fur­nished four bedroom house. Couple blocks from Notre Dame. Phone FOR SALE 
277-3604. Stereo components: Kenwood KD-Charming rustic house for rent. 3330 table-$150, Sansui 881 receiver June 1, 1977 to Jan. 1, 1978. Four $500, Teac A-360 cassette-$350,bedrooms, furnished, air condition­Genesis speakers $300. Like new. er, piano, TV, fireplaces, ten minute Going overseas. Must sell. Make me drive north from NO. Married or 
an offer. 8930. grad students, $150 monthly plus utilities. Calf 272-5435 between 4:30 '63 Rambler. Excellent cond. (parts 
p.m. and 8:00p.m. and body), snow tires, great buy! $350. Call 7515. 
3 EXCELLENT HOUSES IN FINE NEIGHBORHOODS. Each ideal for 4-6 students. Cost adjusted to PERSONALS 
number of students $225-$300 plus utilities. Call Mr. Gatto 234-6688. 
Due to the bogus Irish Wake our party has been moved to Saturday

Rooms. $40 month. 233-1329. Rides. nite 9:00 p.m. 2910 E. Edison. 
T. Moore a. Armando: This is long

LOST& FOUND overdue, but thanks for the great time we had at the Keenan Formal. 
Basketball found behind Lyon's 
L & K. 
Hall. Call 8905. Ask for Scott. 
P.S. The dinner we drank was great, tool 

Found: Woman's watch near Post Office, Mike 8930. 
Looks like Laura has been at it again. And you thought I'd miss it. 

Lost: Gold Inscribed bracelet. Great 
G

sentimental value. Reward. Call 6845. 
Leo: Good luck at your Interview In 
N.J....but I'll see you In ChicagoFound: Brown frame glasses with 

this summer! 

brown leather clip on case In O'Shag. Call Mary Pat at 6789. 
Want to see a lot of wastes roll? Come see the OUT OF OUR 

Lost: Black leather gloves near LEAGUE BOWLING LEAGUE AT 
Hayes-Healy. Call Debbie 7906. 
KOSCIUSKO'S ON LAUREL AVE­NUE in Mishawaka. Watch the 

Lost: St. Mary's class ring at Senior 
Quiets, Wild BunC:h, Cahirman of Formal. Initials are COB '79 BS. If the Board, and Earl "KOH" An­found, call Colleen at 284-5720. 
thony put on a show! P.S. Wahl's a High Roller? Lost in women's ounge (1st floor) 
LaFortune. Small Opal ring with 2 Terry M. -Did you get a white visor ·gold hearts of both sides. Please for your birthday???return if found. Call Joan anytime 6859. Tony 
Still anxiously awaiting retribution Lost: Gold digital men's watch over for last abuse. 

at B-ball courts next to Stepan. 
Love,Reward for return to Bob at phone 

'G 

1779. Congrats to theW ild Bunch Bowling
Lost: Black & white dalmatian dog, team tor managing to see stra,ght no collar, answers to Princess, while bowling. Buddman, Rowbutt invicinity of ACC, Friday nite April Howard, G. B. Bangs, Marco Kop­15. Reward. Bill Byerline, R3 Box lin, Daaave McCaplin, •'•andy Swan­194, Rochester, Indiana or call 
feldt, Hogle and all the rest. P.S. 223-3701 days. Keep on chugging. 
Hey, Gregg, I can't read yourWANTED writing! The Typist
Attention NO professors swing sets (used) are needed for Lewis Hall All American Barb-
Alumni Hotel this summer. contact You said you wanted a personal, so Suzanna Behnke ph. 6169 or Alumni here it is. From you favorite night
office ph. 7267. editor, Joe 
Need riders to Northwestern this I wonder who put in all those l­weekend. Call Chris or Mary Pat at 
o-n-g personals. Can you guess?6789. Anxiously awaiting royal tennis 2 people need ride to Southeast munching invitation from Deebles & 
Florida after finals. Not much Hank. baggage. Tim 1868. 
C & G 
P.S. We love your bods!! 

Jeff (Sexy Drexyl Dresler's Fan Club will meet tonite. All ND-SMC coeds invited. Hall Reps will be elected. Be there at the Morrissey Lobby at 6:30 p.m. or be square. 
Keep your ete on the Wall Street Journal. Check your investments. Mock Stock Market 
Be yourself for a change. Gay Community of Notre Dame. Fri & Sat. nights 10-12. Phone 8870. 
We are giving a surprise birthday party for ourselves (refreshments, of course!) Friday at 4. Ann and Ruth 
Orest for U.M.O.C. Happy Hour Friday 3-6 at the Library. Raffle drawing for booze at 6:00. Be there! 
George 3rd floor Dillon, We're a little late. Happy Birthday! LauraBeth and AnnMarie 
Orest is the ugliest thing to come out of Cleveland since the Cuyahoga 
River. Vote Orest for U.M.O.C. 

Dear Steve (M.S.U.l, Where our calves met there was too much sweat. How were the jelly bismarks? Your really bugging me. Next time lets get naked a. throw jelly bismarks. 
Eileen Tyrell: This is your con­science! 
Tom Tamm, OH WAH! OH WAH! Please forget your commerbund again sometime. Love a. smackers, Calrence 
Yo Carol Hannon, UH UH DIS IS A Rocky McGuire a...you don like my face or sumpin? 
Anyone interested in purchasing an elevator please call Patty Schirmen. She knows all the ups and downs. 277-3427. 
Martha, No throating it on your birthday. Come to the bars with us! Happy day! Linda and Todd 
Martha Panfil, Happy twentieth to the best roommate and friend. Love and hugs, Linda 
Feeling depressed? ND-SMC hoi­line 4-4311 open nights. 
SIESTA IMPORTS. Onyx, glass & brass, bone, pottery, chess sets, bookends, jewelry, etc. Great grad­uation gifts. 449 Breen-Phillips. 
Grab the Dodo before it gets away. 
All private 3 room furnished up­stairs apartment for married grad­uate student. All utilities. Near Memorial Hospital. No rent in return for helping sister & brother 
(H.S. grad) to and from wheelchairs, etc. For more information, please call 232-9128. 
For the results of the empirical research conducted at the Senior Formal contact the Conrad Hilton. We lett a C:Opy at the desk. 
Nancy C. Happy 22nd one day late! Going to go "schnoops-ing" il up sometime soon?! Hope you had a flying high day! 
Dear K.S., Thanks bunches for helping me survey the territory. Now can 1 survey yours? Tig 
To the driver of the yellow Volks­wagen that hit a bicyclist on Notre Dame & Angela. I have you license. Calf Bill 233-3743. 
LOOKING FOR COMPETENT TY­PISTS FOR NEXT YEARS' PRO­DUCTION STAFF. IF INTERESTED PLEASE DROP A NOTE OFF AT THE OBSERVER OFFICE OF GIVE ME A CALL: KAREN 4-5448. THESE ARE PAID POSITIONS. 
TO WHOMEVER WISHED TO TEACH THE FREE UN IV. COURSE ON COMIC BOOKS, PLEASE CON­TACT FREE UNIV. AT 7757. VERY IMPORTANTI 
An Tostal T-shirt now on sail~! Room 203 Breen Phillips, Calf first 1269 ask for Tina. 
You should be Steppin' Out at thf Irish Wake Sat. night at Stepar Center. 
...You think Beppo or Otto Is ugly. Take a look (a short one at that) at Dave McAlpine and you'll know he deserves UMOC. Vote McAlpine ugly man! 
Mona, Happy 21st! Meak 
Lory & Mary, Happy 21st. Have a beer for me. J.J. 
Ms. Tyler, Congrats on your PhD in Cinema. Happy Birthday! 
Vanessa, Congrats on your success with Tau Fraternity. Happy Birth­day.
--:----------:-----­
Marty (Blow your lunch Bunch) Koppenhater: Next time we ask for a ride back to Campus View, I hope it's in a van. Love, The Machies 
Anyone having contact with the Fox Please contact the Free Clinic immediately or have your head cave in! 
Fred, Congrats! J & K 
Have we got a deal for you. Do you have a small refrigerator that you need stored over the summer months? Campus Ministry will store it free. Call Mary at 6536. 
Please keep in your prayers . the resolution of a violent labor dispute with the miners in Southeastern Kentucky. Thank you. 
Vote Vinnie Renz -41 Sorin-8453 UMOC 
GUYS, You're In luck! Maureen Eyres doesn't have a date to the Junipr 
Formal. Act now. Calf 6938 

1 2 the ·1bserve; Thursday, April 21, 1977 




Tournament trimmed to 'Elite Eight' 
by Frank LaGrotta 
Sports Writer 

It was all there; top-notch shoot­
ing, stingy. hang tough defense, 
rim-rocking slam-dunks and even a 
couple of skinned elbows and 
knees. Yes. in keeping with the 
tradition of Notre Dame's Book­
store Basketball, yesterday's 
games had everything ... including a 
couple of upsets. As the tourna­
mcnt moves into the "Elite Eight" 
quarter-final games, a couple of 
teams that figured on being there, 
will be looking for a seat on the 
sidelines when games get under­
way. 

In what proved to be the most exciting (and longest) game in this 
year's tournament, LAW came out on the short end of a 24-22 upset at the hands of Guys and Dolls. Led by Dana Snoap and Brian McAul­iffe, who each accounted for eight markers, LAW's attack was sev­erely hampered by an injury to Jeff 
Carpenter. 

The Irish backcourt ace was plagued throughtout the game with a broken collarbone that he appar­ently sustained in Tuesday night's game. The victors were paced by Mark Peruschietti, who sunk eight field-goals and Jim Singer, who finished the hour and fifteen min­ute contest with six. 
In another contest with a sur­prise endtng, the Nutmeggers sent the Butcher Brothers home with a 21-19 loss. With Tim Kardok's seven tallies leading the way, the Nutmeggers p.-oceeded to out-hust­le their physical opponents to. gain a spot in the quarter-finals. The Butcher Brothers were paced by Bruce Flowers who hit tive times and pulled down 13 rebounds. Bill Seeger also cashed in five times for the losers while Mike Howard 
added the Nutmeggers cause with six points. 
For the remainder of the tourn­ament's top-ranked teams, things went pretty much as expected as all three of top-seeded entry's gained a berth in the quarter-finals. TILCS IV, the number one seed in this year's Bookstore extravaganza, found themselves fighting dark­ness as well as a tough Stevie 
Wonder club, but they managed to hang on to a 21-17 victory. The TILCS were paced by Dave 
Batton, who was successful on eight of sixteen attempts. Batton also pulled down a game-high 12 rebounds. John Dubenetzki · cJrop­ped five field-goals for the· defend­
ing ·champions. Todd Slade~ ·and 
John. Hahn engineered· a balaqced Stevie Wonder scoring attack with · four tallies apiece. 
Irish ·grid star, Luther "Bradley, stole the scoring honors ·as· his· team, Ebony Magic, put away Big Mac and His Fries, 2F15. Br:adley finished the day with seven P~Jckets on ten . attempts. His . frontcollrt · partner, Toby Knight,, droppe~ in six and garnered ten reboun.ds to aid "the winners cause. Steve Me-. Daniels was successful on six of hi!! field goal attempts to head up the losers sco)'ecard. 
by Leigh Tunakan Sports Writer 

The St. Mary's tennis team host­ed the Notre Dame netters in a match held yesterday, which found , the Irish falling by a score of 6-3. 
Mary Shukis had a roaring start for Notre Dame as she downed her 11pponent, Barb Timm, by a score of 6-2, 6-4. However, the St. Mary's squad came back to win the next three matches. 
Ann Daniels and Noreen Bracken downed Jane Lammer and Paddy Mullin respectively to start St. Mary's on their winning effort. 
IH Tennis 

The Interhall Tennis Tournament was held last weekend on the Courtney Courts. The result in men's, women's and team, divi­sions were as follows: 
Men's Singles: Bob Lee (Cavanaugh) defeated Mark Couzin (Stanford) 6-1, 6-1. 
Men's Doubles: 

Charlie Y doate and Keith Connor (Stanford) defeated Chris Schr.eider and Jim Lloyd (Keenan) 4-6, 6-2. 6-4. 
Women's Singles: Laurie Reising (Farley) defeated Jane O'Brien (Lewis) 6-4, 6-0. 
Women's Doubles: 

Anne Kelly and Heidi Lang· (Lewis) defeated Anne Boland and Mary Tighe (Lewis) 6-4, 6-4. 
Mixed Doubles: 

Jay Ferriero and Donna Finney defeated Ed VanTa·ssle and Madeleine McMenemy 5-7, 6-3, then blanked herTami Griffin 6-0 for the team's
6-4.  
Team Totals:  
Men:  Women:  
Stanford Cavanaugh Keenan Dillon Howard Grace Off-Campus St. Edward's Pangborn  30 18 10 10 8 6 4 2 2  Lewis Farley  16 12  

opponent 6-0, third victory. 

. · . the, .next victory for the Irish · tame . when Diane Shillingburg. wori ·by :default when St. Mary's Sue Stark developed severe muscle. cramps. The final singles match of the day found Marie McKee on top for· Sk.Mary's as she defeated Ellen Callahan 6-3, 5-7 and 6-3. 
.·hi :_doubles competition, the duo of "Jane .Lammer and Diane· Shil­lingburg out-played the Kelee Brogger and Lisa Donovan tandum, 8-3. In the number two doubles, Mary Shukis and Ginger Siefring were'defeated by Ann Daniels and· Tami Griffin, 10-4. 
·Lynn Griffin and Karen Midock ended the day's competition in the number three doubles match "by pounding the duo of Paddy Mullin and Mary Jo Cushing l0-1. 
In a game where the score was 
expected to be much closer than it 
ended up, Billy Paterno's Average 
White Team whitewashed the 300 
Percent Club 21-13. Paterno and 
Rustv Lisch shared the scoring 
honors with five markers apiece. 


Doug Buth put in four for AWT :: _;.:: 
while Tim Healy led the losers with 
four scoring shots. 

In other action on the bookstore 
pavement, the Mo Fandsome Five 
felt like they were starring in a 
remake of "Land of the Giants" as 
they met six-foot-nine Bill Hanzlik 
and his Chumps. With a starting 
line-up that included no one taller 
than six-foot-two Ron Polidori; the 


Mo Fandsome boys dropped a / .· ... : "',::,' , 
21-10 decision to the Chumps ' ~~ 
· who's line-up includes, besides ,, '\ ; t ' { ~ ·.,-.( 
Hanzlik, six-foot-five Tom Sud-~­
kamp and six-foot-four Jon DeGul-jj'~ ' 
lio. Hanzlik led all scorers with a r 
nine for thirteen performance. 'i#! \ f Doug Reigle and Larry Morris each t j ~ , ~· • _ 
had four for the Chumps while the ~ 
Mo Fandsome Five was paced by 
Rick Connor who made good on 
four attempts from the field. 

In one of yesterday's early 
battles, Dave Kuzmicz led the 
Dynamo-Hum to a 21-17 win over 



·studley Mike and the Rest. Kuz­AWT's Rusty Lisch outfights 300 Percent Club's jim Browner for amicz finished the day with nine rebound en route to a 21-13 victory. (photo by Debbie Krilich) · baskets and three rebounds, while te~tmmate Dean Calland turned in a ·five-point effort. Studley Mike and the Rest were paced by Chris Cohl who tallied six markers and Bill Gaudreau who hit for four. 
In the other afternoon tilt, the ·Exceptions and the Milk Duds 
J,1 ' ~~-:4 f 
~: 

Vellutato led the Exceptions with seven points apiece while Vellutato trapped 11 caroms. However, he was bested on the boards by Milk Dud, Tom O'Niell, who pulled down 13 rebounds and shot five of nine from the field. O'Niell's 
scoring effort was second only to Ted Maroney who dropped seven from the pavement. Jeff Hay also hit five for the winners. 
Quarter-final action is slated to get underway behind the bookstore at 5:30 p.m. on Friday when the following confrontations will take phice: 
S:30 p.m. 

The Chumps vs. Guys and Dolls 6:15p.m. Ebony Magic vs. The Nutmeggers 
6:45p.m. The TILCS IV vs. Milk Duds 

Dave Kuzmicz' nine field goals paced Dynamo Hum to a 21-17 win. 
Av~rage White Team III vs. Dyna­over Studley Mike and the Rest. (photo by Debbie Krilich) mo Hum 

fought an overtime battle with the 
SMC downs lrl•sh netwom·en Milk 
Duds emerging victorious, 
Injury plagued Irish continue winni_ng surge 
by Tom Powanda Winning the first set in a tie-break­
Sports Writer 

Losing yet another top perfor­mer, this time to injury, the Notre Dame tennis team continued its prowess on the courts as they came up with two victories in three . outings earlier this week. · . · 
Playing without their senior cap­tain Randy Stehlik, the Irish netters traveled to Milwaukee to take on the Warriors of Marquette on Sunday. The jumbling of the line-up affected the Irish little as they won easily 8-1. 
With Stehlik absent, coach Fal­lon decided to move each of the other doubles teams up and place a new team in the third spot. The strategy worked perfectly as Notre Dame swept the three matches. In the number one slot, Marty Horan and Bob Koval took a tough decision from Mark Stich and Len Ciborosky of the Warriors. Giving up five games in the first set, the Irish duo held on for the victory, 7-5. fhe second set saw Notre Dame win the same number of games while yielding one more than in the previous set as Horan and Koval took the second set in a tie-breaker 7-6. 
The second wirt for the Irish saw the red hot doubles team of Mark Trueblood and Tom Westphal go the distance with Mike O'Briend and Ray Leffler of Marquette. 
er 7-6, the team then faltered losing 6-4. In the rubber set of the 'match Notre Dame gave up just three games in route to a 6-3 victory to give them the match. 
The third doubles team was a new one for the Irish. Steve Barrett and Jim Kelly came through for the netters as they took two sets to defeat Doug Kruse and Jim Dudley of the Warriors. Winning the first set 6-4, the Marquette duo nar­rowed the gap but the Irish netters 
held  on  to  a  7-6 tie-breaker  win  
securing the match.  
Needing  just  two  of  the  six  

remaining matches to secure a victory the Irish took little time to get started. Freshman Carlton Harris playing in the number two singles spot put the Irish one step closer as he soundly defeated O'Brien in straight sets 6-3, 6-3. 
In the number three position Koval of Notre Dame took three sets before disposing of his Warrior opponent. The final tally read 6-3, 4-6, 7-S. 
With the match already won Trueblood, playing in the fourth slot, came back to win the first set in a tie-breaker 7-6, and then took the second set without losing a game. 
The fifth position saw Westphal sweep by his Marquette opponent in identical sets 6-4, 6-4. 
Closing out the Irish 8-1 romp was Barrett. Winning the initial set easily with a score of 6-2, he gave up the next one 6-3.The final set was again in his favor, however, as he won 7-5. 
After a tough loss to Indiana on Monday which saw the Irish lose eight out of nine matches, they came from behind on the excellent play again of Westphal to defeat Northwestern by the score of 5-4. 
Continuing their strong play in the doubles competition, the Irish again came up with two victories, this time in the teams of Horan and Koval and Harris and Barrett. 
Winning in straight sets, Horan and Koval had little trouble captur­ing the first set, 6-3. The second set was a turnabout as the Irish duo won a hard fought 7-6 tie-breaker. 
Harris and Barrett gave up just four games in the number three position, all of which cr.me in the first 'Set as they coasted to a 6-4, 6-0 win for Notre Dame. 
Singles saw Harris lose his first set 6-3 before unwinding for a three set victory over his Northwestern opponent, Bob Kaspers. The scores of the remaining two sets were 6-3, 6-2, respectively. 
In the third slot Koval won in straight sets over Steve Kohn, 6-3, 7-5. 
Losing the number four and number six spots the Irish needed Westphal's match for the victory. Already behind losing the first set 6-3, Westphal came back to take. the next two sets winning 6-4 and 7-5. 
The wins coupled with the loss gives the Notre Dame netters a record of 12-9. 
Notre Dame travels to Purdue today before entertaining Michigan State at 1 p.m. on Friday, Wiscon­sin at 10 a.m. on Saturday and Kalamazoo at 2 p.m. on Sunday concluding their busiest home weekend of the season. 


Lacrosse team 

captures two 

The Notre Dame lacrosse "A" team won two decisive victories this past weekend. On Saturday, Indiana University fell victim to the Irish by a score of 12 to one. On Sunday, the Irish defeated Michi­gan State seven to one. 
The defense played with inten­sity in holding their opponents to a mere one goal apiece. Likewise, the offense performed superbly in accumulating their 19 goals. 
Against the Hoosiers, Pat Clynes led Notre Dame in scoring with five tallies. Jay Williams led the Irish over the Spartans with his three goal, hat-trick, performance. 
This Saturday, the Irish stickmen host Ohio St1tP. University. The contest will b<.: played at 2 p.m. on Stepan Field. 






