
~ --------~--------­


An early morning breakfast at the North Dining Hall concluded the scheduled events of Junior Parents' Weekend. The three-day event was highlighted by a banquet held Saturday night at Stepan Center. Fr. Theodore Hesbrugh, was the featured speaker, commemorating the 25th anniversary of the festivities sponsored by the Junior Class. Other events included, a cocktail party Friday night at the Athletic and Convocation Center, the Notre Dame-LaSalle basketball game, and 
6:30 mass at Sacred to the Presidential. Dominick Y 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's Vol. XI, No. 89 Monday, February 28, 1977 
SBP candidates expand platforms 
by Barbara Breitenstein News Editor 
Repeating and expanding on their platforms, eight of nine Student Body president candidates appeared before about SO students last night in a forum held in Alumni Hall. Rich Hohman was not available to appear at the forum, the second such meeting between students and candidates. 
During the forum, -each can­didate was given time to make a speech and then address questions from students. Each candidates was also given the opportunity to address one question to one other candidate. 
Ricci-Eck 
Ken Ricci, emphasized that the Student Body president must be "99 percent perspiration and one percent inspiration," the platform being the inspiration and the work being the rest. 
Ricci stated three goals of his administration as dealing with social space, rallying input from students and organizing student government. "The first two are t]!e most important," Ricci said, "but they are ignored.'' Ricci and Mark Eck, his running mate, specified improvement as giving $25,000 to the halls and $20,000 for the Nazz, opening a book and record or flea market co-op in LaFortune, provid­ing more business courses fo; non-business majors and making judicial boards a "more effective entity.'' 
In the question -and answer period, Ricci stated lie and Eck intended to "rally input" by going out to students, going to each hall once a month to meet with students and through hall representatives, who would be responsible for finding student problems by talk­ing to students in their halls and reporting back to the SBP. 
Bender-Soma 
The difference between his and other candidates' platforms, Dave Bender commented, is in three areas. These are a restructuring of the Student Life Council (SLC). 
~hich would include less faculty and introduce rectors into the organization, making the Student Union more accountable to Student Government by "getting more people involved in the decision­making process," and by using the Alumni Board as a vehicle to accomplish student goals. 
Bender also emphasized the experience of his running mate, Tom Soma, in such areas as the calendar controversy, the laundry problem and dealing with Iarmer Brown's pigs controversy. 
In the question and answer period, questions dealt primarily with Bender's proposal to restruc­ture the SLC. Bender replied that while some administrators on the Council do reside in dorms, "their main focus and thrust of their jobs is not to handle dorm life. We want to get the rectors who have been directly involved in this and are aware of the personal needs of the people i~ dorms." 
Mooney-Morrison 
"Realism" and "continuity" are the basic ideals which Patrick Mooney and Bruce Morrison would implement as Student Body Presi­dent and Vice-president. To achieve this, Mooney proposes to introduce to the Student Govern­ment constitution a provision that the Student Body vice-president must be either of sophomore or freshman. "This would promote continuity and inter-class coopera­tion," Mooney stated, "and would allow the lower echelons of the executive branch to move up the 
' following year." Mooney stated in response to the question that he doesn't think his inexperience is any hinderance. "The job is not well explained anywhere," he said. "You just have to go through the cycle to know what are the good and bad decisions. No other experience other than being president can prepare you for the job." 
Miranda-dinton 
SBP candidate Ralph Miranda emphasized he is "for an open government, accountable and visi­ble to the students." To achieve this, Miranda proposed three goals --publishing a student government newsletter, opening a direct tele­phone line to the SBP and making the government a "smaller more efficient working body by eliminat­ing the inefficient bodies.'' This last change would not be effected until in office, where he could see where it is needed, Miranda said. 
Parietals would be examined by a Miranda administration, in order to "find out if (changes in it) can't be done, then why, so we're not rehashing the same thing every year," he said. The purpose of this is to "get everybody's opinion down.'' 
Hardy-Mclver 
"We are trying to mix realism and idealism. It is the duty of the student government to provide avenues in the real world," Deborah Mciver, SBVP candidate explained the Valerie Hardy­
[continued on page 5] 
Ombudsman election committee cites SBP campaign violations 
ND collective bargaining card campaign begins. 
The Notre Dame Chapter of the American Association of University Professors (AAUP) announced to­day that its "card campaign" fOr support to petition a collective bargaining election is well under way. 
-Professor James Robinson, pres­ident of the Chapter, reported that an initial group of more than one , hundred faculty members have signed cards. Now letters with cards have been sent to all eligible faculty. 
Collection of signed "designa­tion cards", as they are called, is a method to gather evidence for the National Labor Relations Board (NLRB) that there is adequate interest in collective bargaining to justify an election. The card campaign then is just one step in a possible move toward a collective · bargaining election. 
Under NLRB guidelines, the AAUP Chapter would need signed cards from 30 percent of the facu,lty to petition for an election. Robin­son indicated, however, that the Chapter seeks cards from consider­ably more than 30 percent so that it can consider petitioning for an election. as a feasible step. In an election, the Chapter would need a majority of votes cast to become the faculty's bargaining agent. 
The AAUP Chapter presented its case for collective bargaining in a pamphlet distributed to the Faculty in early February. Robinson noted that the arguements for a collective bargaining system at Notre Dame are centered on two issues: the improvement of the faculty role in academic governance and faculty cooperation with the administration in the allocation of available funds for the best possible teaching­learning-research situation. 
Although f~culty compensation is a concern, this issue is subord­inate to the two central issues. 

In Feb. 197S, a Faculty Senate questionaire revealed an interest by a significant number of faculty in learning more about collective bargaining. The Notre Dame· AAUP Chapter then joined the Senate in sponsoring a series of guest speakers and discussion!' during the 197S-76 academic year. Then an AAUP quesi.ionaire of Apr. 1976,. revealed that S2.9 percent of those responding (61 percent returned the question­naire) wanted Notre Dame AAUP to initiate procedures that would allow the Faculty to choose or reject collective bargaining. 
The AAUP Chapter proceeds with the "card campaign." Mem­bers of the Library Faculty, the Special Professional Faculty, the Special Research Faculty, and the Teaching and Research Faculty are eligible to sign cards, except those with administrative positions above the level of chairman, and some other categories such as visiting faculty and others with temporary appointments for this year. 
Robinson requests that faculty members who did not receive a card and accompanying letter but who feel they are eligible to receive a card should call him or 
send  him  a  note  through  the  
English Department office.  
Robinson  emphasized  that  the  

signed designation cards will be held in strict confidence and that a signed card is, in effect, a vote to proceed with a co1.1ective bargain­ing election. The signed cards themselves do not make the AAUP Chapter a negotiating agency. 
Signed cards should be sent either to Alberta Ross, vice-pres­ident of the Notre Dame AAUP Chapter lOS Radiation Research Labratory or James Robinson at 3S6 O'Shaughnessy. 

president addressed questions from students and opponents. [photo by Dominick Yocius] 
official campaign penod had start­ed. The committee viewed this endorsement as early campaign­ing. To make up for this "early start," as Cawley labelled it, Planner Hall was asked to come out with a ditto that listed the other eight candidates and certain basic informatio:1 about them. The Ombudsman typed the ditto, the Ricci ticket ran it off and Planner Hall paid for it, according to Cawley. 
Ricci's second violation had to do with making his own petitions. ''All candidates must use petitions that can be picked up at the student government office. We ran out of petitions because people were tak­ing a lot on Tuesday," Cawley said. 
"Ricci then· took liberties and ran off his own petitions on W ednes­day. As a result of this. he was prohibited from petitioning as of 
[continued on page 7] 
by Gregg B. Bangs PoUtical Editor 

At an Ombudsman press con­ference last Friday afternoon, Election Committee Director Tim Cawley went over _violations com­mitted up to this point in this years Student Body President's race. 
"We're not trying to incriminate any one candidacy by making the violations public," Cawley said. "We just want to clear up all the rumors that have been floating around;" 
Several charges dropped 

The first item Cawley covered concerned the candidacy of John Talbot. Talbot is a contestant in this year's Bengal flouts. The South Bend Tribune printed a summary of the fighters in Talbot's weight class which brought up the fact the Talbot was running for Student Body President. Normally. this type of publicity is fine. 
according to Cawley, but the article was published before the legal commencement of campaigning. After an investigation, the Election Committee found Talbot had noth­ing to do with the article, so the issue was dropped. Talbot is now legally using reprints of this article as part of a campaign poster. 
Cawley then mentioned that a charge againstSBP candidate Dave Bender for illegally campaigning at a hall meeting before the official campaign period had been investi­gated and subsequently dropped. 
Ricci ticket draws penalties 
Three violations were detected in the Kenn Ricci-Mark Eck ticket and penalties have been assessed. according to Cawley and Clark 
Carmichael.  a  member  of  the  
election committee.  
The  first  violation  was  an  en·  

dorsement by the Planner Hall paper given to the ticket before the 

\ 

. 
2 the observer 1 Monday, february 28, 1977 

~On Campus Today----.... 
9:30 am 
3:30 pm 
6:30pm 7-8 pm 
7:30pm 8 pm 
8 prr. 
8 pm 
8 pm 
9 pm 10 pm 
l· 
I 
Special Mon.& Tues. Taco Dinner $1.60 

rf~~ ~-4rfo lurs-.~1 
\\\ RESTAURAN~J_U,'
I I ?· .---"" ' 
\;/ .. .__) ~p.
110" • ~ 
"'~~~~ ~ 
~ 
11 a.m. to 11 p.m. 233-0385 526 Western Ave. South 8Pnd 
. -workshop, decision making, sponsored by student affairs, student aff.airs conference room. 
-faculty colloquium, "spiritual masters as theolo­gians" by rev. david burrell, c.s.c., n.d. sponsored by _theology department, library lounge. 
-meeting,sailing club, yearbook pictures will be taken room 303, engineering bldg. 
j 

-speakers; "life after (:ollege night", featuring vincent raymond, assoc:. dean, college business administration; david link, dean, law school; robert waddick, assistant dean, college of arts and letters; nicholas fiore, prof. of engineering; ralph thorson, prof. of biology. howard .hall. 
-concert,I'Joston, bleacher seats only, ace. 
-lecture, "the family and its future" by prof. wilfried dumon, visiting prof. of sociology from belgium, sponsored by center for the study of man and dept. of sociology and anthropology, hayes-healy aud. 
-lecture,"the national cancer program: a social experiment in bjology and medicine" by dr. frank j. rauscher, jr., sr. vice-president of research, ameri­can cancer society, sponsored by college of science, cce aud. -lecture, "the rising of evangelicals in america" by ken woodward, religious editor, newsweek, sponsor­ed by american studies, library lounge. 
-sculpture exhibition, opening, moira marti geoff­rion, assistant prof. of art, Works in soft sculpture and weavings, isis gallery, bid fieldhouse. 
-workshop, skill id, sponsored by student affairs, ' room 141, regina hall. 
-forum, student body presidential and vice-pres­idential candidates will be present, everyone invited, keenan-stanford chapel. 

PLACEMENT BUREAU 
Main Bulldln& 
INTERVIEWS SCHEDULED FOR WEEK OF W.RCH 7 
Interviews are for seniors and graduate students. Sign-up schedules are in Room 213, Main Building. Interview times must be aigned for in person. The sign-up period at the 
Placement Bureau will be from 8:00a.m. to 5:00p.m•• f!bnday through 11\Ursday, Peb. 28 -Mllrch 3. 
JIM.R. Mon.  7  Harris Trust and Savings Bank B in AL and BA-strong business obackground in Econ, Fin, Gen Bus Lilly Industrial Coatings, Inc B in Ch£ and Chem. Surface Combustion B in I«, EE, ChE, Met. Texas Gas Tran•mission Corp.  riented with or Acct.  
Ht\R. 7/8 l'bn/ Tues.  Lady Arrov B in AL and  BA.  
M\R.  8  American Grad.  School of  International Management  

Tues.  B in all disciplines.  
Factory lt..ttual Engineering Auociation  
Bin to£, CE, AE.  
Haskins & Sells  
B in Acct.  MBA with Acct bkgrd or conctrn.  
IDS  Harketing Corporation  
B in ALand BA.  
S.  S.  Kresge Company  
B in AL or BA with genuine desire for Retail  
Motorola Inc.  
BHD in EE.  BM in to£.  
M\.R.  9  Leo Burnett U.S.A.  
Wed.  B in ALand BA.  MBA.  

Continental Oil Company (Resch'eduled from 2/24) B in ChE and Chern. General Telephone Co~apany of Indiana All BBA. B in EE. Square D Company B in ICIO, EE, ~. Parker-Hannifin Company Bin HE, EE, 1£10. State frtltual of America B in At and BA. Watcon, Inc. B in BA and EG •  
.f!M.R. 9/10 Wed/Thun.  Firestone Tire & Rubber Company B in ChE, CE, EE, Engr M!ch, Engr Sci, t£10, ~. Chem, M!lth, Acct.  
f'M.R. 10 ~  Federal Highway Adr!llnhtration BM in CE. (h.acheduled £ram 1/27)  
General lobtors Corporation B in !£, EE, l€10, ChE. Miles Laboratories BK in Chern, Comp Sci. Wilson & Co., Inc. Bin Acct, Fin, ,_t, Hkt, Bio,  Chem, Hicrobiol.  
PAR.l0/11 Thun/Fri  Coopere & Lybrand B in Acc:.t. MBA with Acct bkgrd  or  conctrn.  
MR. 11 w-:-­ Scott Paper Company 8 in AL and BA for Sales  Rep  -Midwest.  

Employer Information. Alternatives. Teaching. Su!TI'IIer. Action/Peace Corps/Vista. Federal Service. Room 213. Adminhtr.etion Buildging. 

DINNERFOR2 
Ask for the SALOON, our marinated 9-1/2 oz. top sirloin, mixed green salad with your choice of dressing, baked potato, coffee or tea and 1/2 liter of our house wine. 
• 

$10.00 
Monday/Tuesday 
-Doc.'Pien:e~ ~ 
120 N Main St Mishawaka Ind. Phone 255-7737 
Mgt. 
-
"i 
i I 
Augusta to.. house 
• -• t •
JUniors, sen1ors 
! 
[continued from page 3]
I 
selected through the regular pro­cess, but will I also go through an interview with Junior and Sopho­more Class Presidents, Lisa Turco, and Mogab. \The administration, and Augusta residents felt the need for some in aq advisory position to be available to\ Augusta residents. 
White stated, i"It really is a good idea to have someone around who has information for the residents and who can 1take care of little services in the. hall. This year we suffered a bit without the services of an R.A. 
Another mandatory meeting for those students interested in living in Augusta for next year, will be tomorrow at 10 p.m. The lottery for room picks follows on March 7, with the room picks scheduled for Wednesday, March 9. 
i 
*The Observer 
Night Editor: !Debbie Dahrling 
Asst.  Night: Editor:  Paula  
Carroll  ;  
Layout  Staff!  Marie  Vitali,  
John  CalCutt  

Editorial Layout: Mike Richter Sports Layout: Greg Solman, Fred Herbst, Frank LaGrotta Typists: Morey Blinder, Leigh Tunakan E.M.T.: Karen Chiames Day Editor: Jack Pizzolato Copy Reader: Pat Cole Photographer: Dominick Yocius 
The Observer is publ1she.d Monday through Fndav and weekly during the summer session. except during the exam and vacat1on periods The Observer 1s published by students of the University of Notre Dame and St Mary's College Subscnptions mdy be purchdsed for $20 per year ($10 per semester) from The Obse.r­ver, Box Q. Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 Second cldSS postage paid, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 
The Observer 1s a member of the AssoCiated Press All reproduction nght> are rese.rwd 

are you......... 
Not Baptized and interested in becoming a Christian? Baptized and interested in becoming a Roman Catholic? Baptized Catholic and interested in receiving the sacrament of \. Confirmation? 
Baptized Catholic and interested in learning more about your religion? for information please contact the : NOTREDAMECATECHUMENATE at Campus Ministry 
Campus Ministry Memorial Library aiJ 
283-6536 ;;:..~ 

West Badin Hall 
283-3820 

TUESDAY, MARCH 8 .. 8 P.M. 
MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM SOUTH BEND, IND. RESERVED SEATS $6, $5, $4 NOW ON SALE AT AUDlTORIUM BOX-OFFICE 11 AM TO S PM SPECI.-'\L STUDENT DISCOUNT S l.OO Qt:F WITH THIS AD PRESEN1 WHEN BUYINGTICKETWITH YOURS ILJOENT I. D. 
I c 


Monday, February 28, 1977 the observer 


Luchini, Finnegan unopposed in SLC elections 
by Gregg Bangs PoUtlcal Editor 
One candidate each is running 
for the open North Quad and 
Off-Campus Student Life Council 
positions. 
The South· Quad position is not 
up for election this year because 
Peter Haley, its current representa­
tive, decided to exercise an option 
that allows him to hold office for 
two years. If a sophomore runs for 
a position on the SLC, that person 
can choose to remain in office for 
two years. Haley cho~t:: this option. 
Luchini late entry to 
North Quad race 1 
Gary Luchini is currently the only person running for the North Quad SLC position. Barb Smith, a junior from Breen-Phillips, pulled out of the race because she was upset that the Campaign Committee (part of the Ombudsman) in an attempt to get mo!iC people to run, gave an 
Augusta to house mor~ students 
extension of two days for people to turn in SLC petitions. Although her name is still on the ballot, Smith is not campaigning and considers herself "not in the running." Luchini filed his petition during the extension period. 
Luchini said he's running be­cause he "likes to get involved and saw the SLC spot as a good opportunity.'' 
.. 1 figured if I tried hard, I could get something accomplished," the Stanford sophomore said yesterday in an interview with the Observer. "I found out she (Smith) was running unopposed, which is never a good deal, so I decided to run.' .. 
He sees the role of the SLC as one that should relay student opinion to the faculty and admini­stration. He also thought there should be a greater emphasis on intermediate and short range prob­lems, instead of long range issues. "I'm in favor of studying such long range issues as parietals and co-ed housing, but I can't see spending ninety percent of the SLC's time on issues that won't affect the average student's stay here," he said. 
Luchini would like to increase student input into! the SLC. He would do this by keeping in touch with students, either on the cam­pus, hall or individual level. "The SLC representatives are not in touch with their constituents and that's why they're 'limited to deal­ing with-just long -range issues-­they really don't .know what the students want," he continued. 

He would also like to see the SLC consider a new party policy, re­gardless of whether an Indiana 19-year-old drinking law passes or not. Luchini thinks the University should officially reqognize a double major. "If you qo all the hard work, you should get credit for it," he stated. l 
I 
Finnegan runs tor 0-C post 

Terry Finnegan,; the only candi­date for the off-c~mpus position, feels integration is 'acking between off-campus studen1s and the cam­pus. "There are 1 certain advan­tages to living off-dampus, most of which are pretty o~vious," Finne­gan said in an interview last week. "But there is no rbason to suffer the disadvantages that off-campus students presently o," he added. 
"I would like to increase com­munication and integration to the degree that people want. The fact that they moved off-campus shows they don't want that much, but I would like to work on areas where they'd like some action," he ex­plained. 
Finnegan said he was more interested in long range plans, but would take action on a short range issue if one came up. "The way it looks now, the off-campus position of the SLC will be the only elected position held by an off-campus resident," he said. "!would like to integrate this post to the concerns, whether long range or short range, of the off-campus students.'' 
Peter Haley, the South ; Quad representative, feels the SL'C has evolved into a long range concept­ual role. "Student Union, Student Government, and the Hall Presi­dent's Council are all concerned with resolutions on short and intermediate range problem~.'' he said last night. ''The SLC takes an overall view on student life, a$ they are doing on sexuality right pow. It's attacking from the core. \ This type of view must be to institute any specific practical plans.'' 
Haley thinks the Observer has done a "gross injustice to the SLC." "Right now the SLC is clearly ineffectual, but the paper shouldn't berate it," he said. "If the paper would give credit where credit is due, the decline of the SLC would be pointed where it should be. When the prov"st of the University said it should die be­cause it serves no purpose, it's clear the cause of the decline should be thrown at the administra­tion, not at us," he said. 
Haley thinks the bOdy can make contributions. "We're the only group with both the faculty and administration inCluded in our structure. There are a lot of concerned people on the council and the c~uncil is . dying to have issues," he continued: 
Looking ahead to his next term, Haley commented, "I think the SLC is making a good attempt. Instead of dealing with short range plans, I'd rather get on a general, overall level and make decisions on overall student life.'~ 

by Mary Rukavina 
Approximately 150 St. Mary's sophomores and juniors attended a meeting in Augusta Hall last night to learn about living in Augusta next year. 
Junior Class President Nancy 
M<>gab, told the group of students 
that the plan for next year is to 
keep Augusta a senior-junior dorm, 
with the seniors getting first prior­
ity in the lottery. Augusta Presi­
dent explained to the group "that 
there are now 56 girls in Augusta, 
most of whom are seniors, while a 
few juniors filled up the empty 
spaces." 
Mogab added, "There will be 
an additional 15 beds in Augusta 
next year to accomodate more 
students. The distribution of the 
rooms will be: 33 singles, three 
doubles, two triples and six 
quads." Both White and Mogab 
expressed disenchantment with the 
proposed distribution of rooms. 
"I don't know how they plan to 
fill those six quads next year, we 
had a hard time filling the three 
triples this year," White stated. 
Mogab agreed, adding, "By the 
time you are a senior, you are less 
tolerant and do not want to live in a 
quad. Most seniors are going to 
want singles, and the idea of filling 
all six of those quads is unrealis­
tic." Mogab and White did say, 
however, that they thought there · 
might be some juniors who want 
the quads. 
lnadditionto the extra rooms next 
year, one resident advisor is being 
added to Augusta. She will be 
[continued on page 2] 

Marriage expert ·. to give lectures 
An international expert on mar­
raige and the family will deliver 
two public lectures at the Univer­
sity this semester. Dr. Wilfried 
Dumon, professor at the University 
of Louvain in Belgium and director 
of its Group on Family Sociology, is 
a visiting professor at Notre Dame 
for the spring semester.­
He will speak on "The Family 
and Its Future" tonight at 8 p.m. in 
the Hayes-Healy auditorium. On 
Tuesday Mar. 22, he will talk about 
"The Family and Government Pol­
icy" at 8 p.m. in the Hayes-Healy 
Bldg., room 124. The lectures are 
cosponsored by the Department of 
Sociology and Anthropology and 
the Center for the Study of Man in 
Contemporary Society. 
Dumon is serving a four-year 
term as secretary of the Interna­
tional Sociological Association's 
Committee on Family Research. He 
is coeditor of a Belgian publication, 
FamUy and Population, and associ­
ate editor of the International 
Department of the Journal of 
Marriage and the FamUy. With 
special interest in the study of 
divorce, artificial insemination and 
illegitimacy, Dumon is the author 
or coauthor of several books and he 
has published nearly SO articles 
and reports in his field. 
I 

Save $10.00 \to $59.90 ifyou act now. 
I l 



If you've b~en thinking about getting~ programmable, 'texas Itistruments hasa speci~l offer for yOu 
N@W
i 
i 

I 
SR-56 $109.95* SR-52 $249.95* (New\Iow price) 
If you want an incredible slide rule calc If you want the computer-!ike power of a card pro­also programmable, then this is the one grammable then choose this one. There're 74 preprogrammed functions opera-Techniques like optimiza~ion, iteration, data reduc­tions. And it has AOS, Tl's unique algebrai operating tion, what-if matrices, matHematical modeling, need 
I 

system, the underlying reason an SR-56 i , o power-not tie up your mind-or your time. 
ful. It'll let you handle problems with many as But learning to use it is a'hassle, you say. Not true. 9 sets of parentheses. Talk about memory. An SR-56 Prerecorded programs are~ gathered into software has 10 (11 if you count the T-register.). And libraries: Electrical Engineering. Math. Statistics. arithmetic with all of them. Finance. All you need do is (oad a mag card, pres~ :ct Chances are you'll soon discover how few keys and you'll get ~nswers that previ.: usly 
it is to program. An SR-56 has 100 steps. required a computer. decision functions. Four levels of su You can make your own rograms just as easily. rement and skip on zero. Compare a 
·In just a couple of hours y u'll begin to 4r·0with the display to make a conditional prove what a powerful asse you have-this is just the beginning. right at your fingertips. Think about it. Can you really afford to p And there's not a better ti e to get an ting your SR-56, now? SR-52 than right now. · r--------------I _j --------! -------c2"l 
1 Texas Instruments will rebate $10.00 of your original SR-56 I EleJtrical Engineering. Statistics. Math. Fin4nce. Choose any two anj {1) return I you: (1) return this completed coupon including serial num this1 completed coupon including serial nUJj)ber along with (2) your completedl completed SR-56 customer information card (packed in box) I SR-t2 serialized customer information card ~packed in box) and (3) adated copy I
of proof of your purchase. verifying purchase between Jan. 1and 
I of p oof of your purchase, verifying purchase betweeh Jan. 20 and Marcr. 31, 1977. I
I 

SR-2. Free Saltware Library Offer
I SR-56 Rebate Ofter P. 0. Box 1210 

1 Richardson. Texas 75080
J Richardson, Texas 75080 I Name I 
I 

l~b. I
I Address ___ ~---­
1 City I State Zip 1 ci'" St I

I '' a e _____ZiP--1----+--I SR-~2 Serial No. _(from back of calculator) I 
SR-56 Serial No._____ (from back ___ Math ____ Statistics --~ Finance ___Et Texas Instruments reserves the right to sub titute software libraries of equal value. II Please alklw 30 days tor rebate. I based upon availability. Please allow 30 days r delivery.
L_:_ ____________ _ .J L-t-------------.J 
Offer void where prohibtted by law. Good ·~ Gontinental U.S. only I 
•Suljgested retail price 

I 
TEX 

NSTRUMENTS 
(<J 1977 Texas Instruments Incorporated 
IN 

ORPORATEr 
65b82 

I . 
~------------------------------~----------------------­

In the interests of public discussion and information The Observer has given each of the nine SBP-SBVP tickets column space. These opinions are printed without alteration or cutting, 



Observer Forum 
just as the candidates submitted them. They appear on these page~ 'n completely random order. 
you sup.pose will fill those jobs in 

the fall? Members of the other organizations? Will students who 
weren't working for that candidate 
be included in government? 

To rehash the same old issues 
and preach the same old empty 
promises and play politics with the 
concerns of the students is incred­
ibly insulting and downright arro­
gant. Any candidate who confi­
dently expects you to vote for him 
because his ambition and lust for 
power drive him to unleash his
Lew-Dun~gen workers and his empty assurances 
is taking you for granted, playing ·It has been really unfortunate you for a sucker.
that I have had to spend the last If and when I am elected, I will week telling people that I do have a have no impossible promises torunning mate and that I am not keep. I seek to return the politicalrunning to make this election into a · the on this
farce. My running mate is Karen power to students 
campus, and not Jet it be raped by aDunegan, a very fine person who power hungry poobah. The stu­has proved substantially that she dents should restructure or termin­can get on people's backs. She has ate this system that we have now. Itbeen instrumental in setting up the will not be my personal ideas that I forums and in getting information will implement, but those of theto the media and the other candi­students themselves. The solutiondates. 
to apathy and aliena"tion is veryIn response to anyone whc simple, and is within our reach. Allconsiders my candidacy as a joke, I we have to do is take this electionsay that it is most of the other seriously. We _can't repeat thecandidates who are taking this mistakes of the -past. We have toelection as a joke. The chief reason challenge the status quo, we have_why students are disenchanted to challenge ourselves. Otherwise,with their student government is the Administration will pay nothat the people who run for office attention to us, and our candidatesinflict their folly and their cynicism will continue to insult our intelli­upon student government, leaving 
it crippled and impotent, unable to gence. 
act effectively. 
The only reason for a govern­
ment is the providing of some 
benefit or service that students ·cannot provide individually. Any government that seeks its own private benefit instead of the students' becomes illegitimate. Any talk of working "for the students" or promising "more communication" is nothing more than a mouthful of rice pudding. If the very people who are on top of Hardy-Mclverthe government are responsible for its weakness, then all their cam-Contrary to the Observer's cam­paign promises and sentiments are mentary on Thursday, you have not just lies and calculated deceptions. seen it all before. Indeed, it is 

The candidates this year have because you haven't seen it all gone out of their ways to mislead before that many of you cannot deal and deceive the student body. with the ideas r: !t forth in our What I am trying to do through my platform. Mos. of the other candidacy is to present a totally candidates offer you experience, different view of campti politics, restructuring of student govern­and give the students a' chance to ment, and more social space. We respond intelligently. I am not do not offer you experience in trying to please everyone with LaFortune government. However, vague promises to save the cam-if such experience is necessary for pus, I am telling people that they effectively filling student govern­don't have to listen to the same old ment positions, something is wrong campaign nonsense this year. with that government. Any student 
If the student body is alienated who is intelligent and dedicated and disenchanted with student should be able to serve as student government, it is because either body president of vice president. the students have no interest in We do have elements of social government, or that those who are space and restructuring in our in government have alienated platform, but these are not the them. Either way, that puts the most important elements. We offer burden of proof on the professional new purpose, value and direction in politicos here, to justify their past student life. Most of us are and present actions. The admini-concerned with little more than stration sees what a ludicrous studying and partying to unwind spectacle the other candidates have from studying. Both of these made of this election, and they pursuits are understandably top conclude that they don't have to priorities, but they should not be treat our student government seri-our ONLY priorities. We fail when ously. There can be no doubt as to our institutions do not challenge the debilitating effect of these our priorities, when our institutions elections upon the real power and become ends in themselves, rather efficiency of student government. means to some greater end. 
We are the students of the Student government should be the University of Notre Dame, but the crux of student life. It has an other candidates, with small excep-obligation to direct students' pur­tion, have treated this campaign as poses and values, as well as if it were an AFL-CIO election. Big provide us eith immediate grat­organizations, with a large delega-· ification. Just as student govern­tion in each hall, have spread ment plans, armory parties, it across this campus like so many should plan boycotts of products cancers, in a frenzied attempt to from corporations that exploit hustle votes from normally disen-workers in America and throughout chanted voters. Suddently there the world. Just as it conducts are people knocking at your door or studies concerning parietals, it calling you up, sent from some should conduct studies of the candidate who pretends to speak corporate responsibilities of the for all the students. Issues are companies in which the univeristy resurrected and punted around like invests our money, by compiling a so many footballs in September. stock portfolio of the university. The maneuvering and politicking is Just as it sends student lobbies to · 
incredible, but nothing intelligent legislate for a lower drinking age, it is ever said. Every effort is should send students to lobby for expended at getting your vote, not prison reform and improved hous­your involvement. If a big organi-ing, medical care and education for zation can .~i.n \lD elff<:ticin; w~!) qo , ,eve.ryone. The political and social 
• '"' ' •• ''' \. ". ". t •• ­
awareness of Notre Dame students is abominable! When student government ignores the need for this awareness, we cripple our· selves. Students who are involved in· LaFortune government feed off of our apathy. How committed are we to the Christian principles that exemplify Jesus' life? It appears that we are more committed to the dollar, to the doctor's office, to the Mercedes, and to the executive suite than to the Christian phil· osphy which has made Notre Dame great. It's time to stop raping Our Lady! · Let's not relegate the realization of our ideals to the future. Let's make our lives a witness to our ideals. Let's make our ideals real. Let's find the selves we lost in the clutter on our desks and the crowds at Corby's and the Doobie Brothers concert. Let's make student government a vehicle for demonstrating all our concerns. 
MAKE. YOUR VOTE COUNT BY -GIVING IT TO A TICKET WITH SOMETHING YOU HAVEN'SEEN 
BEFORE. 

~ 
Russeii-Geppert 
Ambition makes promises-but 
experience delivers. 
Our campaign slogan, we feel, 
clearly sets us apart from our 
opponents. For the past week, you 
the student body have had your 
consciences beseiged by an army of 
candidates trying to convince you 
that their ideas were the ones 
capable of making Notre Dame a 
midwestern Eden. But close scru­
tiny of their platforms, undetailed 
and in some cases unresearched, 
provide little evidence of a forth­
coming Utopia. Our ticket, though, 
has something different to offer­
experience. Every leader must 
have ideas, but the best leader is 
the one who implements those 
ideas and turns them into realities. 
We challenge any other ticket to 
match the experience we offer, the 
experience so badly needed in 
student government if it is ever to 
become the efficient machine and 
forceful voice of the students it can 
and should be. 
In my freshman year, I served in a campus-wide capacity as Chair­man of the Freshman Adivsory Council and turned an idea, fresh­man cars after Easter break, into a reality. My sophomore year, as President of Holy Cross Hall, I again took ideas that had been kicked around for years, a hall weight room and hall formal and turned them into actualities. This year, as the third highest elected official on campus, Chariman of the Hall President's Council, I made the idea of greater co-operation and understanding among the HPC, ~tu<tent Government and Student Union a reality, by allowing and encouraging representatives of these respective bodies to attend and participate in all HPC meet­ings. In addition to my duties as HPC chairman this year, I also organized the Student Union book exchange first semester, at that time the most voluminous to date. 
My running mate, John Geppert, lends a hall perspective to our ticket that gives it a balance which distinguishes us still further from our oppoqents. As Dillon Hall vice-president this year, and a former hall social commissioner, John is in tune with the attitudes and needs of dorm residents. He knows what needs to be done, and what you want done. This balance will prevent us from becoming deaf to the cries our constituents. 
In summary then, our theme is this: An idea is only as valuable as the person implementing it, is capable. No other ticket has shown itself as capable, we feel, and that is the issue we ask you to vote on. We're making pledges: utilize HPC (most representative body) for comment on students campus wide concerns, 'campaign of famili­arity,' zero base budgeting (stu­dent Union and Student Govern­ment), social space, social needs, but we're asking you to vote for us because we're the ones who can deliver the goods. If you're simply voting for campaign rhetoric, choose any of our opponents. Ifyou want a continuation of stagnant and 
ineffective student government, a similar procedure is appropriate. But if you are looking for a ticket that can turn ideas into reality and fulfill it pledges, then the choice is clear, vote Russeli-Geppert, Tues­d~_y, March 1. 



Ricci Eck 
Mark and I think that after all the 

talk of communication and revitili­
zation is done, two critical areas set 
our ticket apart from all the rest. 
The first area deals with giving you 
the students some specific and 
tangible goals that we feel we can 
achieve. And the second area 
concerns our unique combination of 
university-wide experience through 
my work in the Student Union and 
Mark's experience as a hall presi­
dent from one of the largest dorms 
on campus. 
The specific goals we are talking 

about stem from the fact that next 
year there will be $125,000 that we 
will have to work with. Since the 
student government and union ran 
well on $80,000 this year, there will 
be an extra $45,000 we would like 
to spend on dorm and campus 
social areas. Specifically spending 
about $25,000 on dorm social areas, 
and 20,000 dollars to rennovate the 
Nazz into a larger and more 
pub-like area. 
We will create a book-record 

co-op that runs all year long in 
LaFortune. 
I'm working right now with the 

dean of the business school to 
hopefully acquire more funds to 
enable more teachers to be hired 
who could offer more courses to 
non-business students. 
We'll use the new legal interpre· tation of the Faccenda Bill to fight for a more lenient alcohol policy on campus. 
The University Judicial board is a joke right now, but it can be an excellent source of student rights. By bringing law students in to help on both the university and ball levels we can make the judicial system just for both the students and the administration. 
There are over 1,000 off-campus students here at Notre Dame who have lost all contact with student government. We'll have off­campus representatives who will come directly to us with problems that we can use student govern­ment to solve. But most impor­tantly Mark and I will personally come off-campus to monthly town meetings. 
We definitely feel that our experience will enable us to make these ideas work. I've dealt with the administration now success­fully for over a year. They know who I am, thus there will be no loss of valuable time spent in just meeting the administrators. 
Finally, I promise to stay here over the summer when there is less pressure on everyone and work to have our ideas approved and under way when you return next year. 
Remember, Mark and I will come to you, we won't just assume that you'll come to us. 
Vote Kenn Ricci and Mark Eck Thank you. 

Talbot-Hughes 
We see the present Student Government as being ineffective not because of its present structure but because of lack of cooperation and inability to work together between Student Government and Student Union and even within the members of Students Government and Student Union and even within the members . of Student Govern­ment itself. We see this as a situation easily overcome simply by establishing a good working relationship between members of both organizations from the very start. The tools for an effective Student Government are present in the current structure of Student Government and with proper man­agement it can be made effective. Forming more decision making bodies in Student Government: we see to be just more red tape and even less representation of the students. There are already repre­sentatives from each hall in the form of hall social commissioners, 
j-board leaders, academic commis­sioners etc. The Student Govern­ment official in these respective areas should be in contact with them on a regular basis thus these would be the necessary input to Student Government from the halls. One representative can't truly represent the large halls or have a good deal of knowledge in all aspects of hall life thus is really useless. We are seeking to achieve the following realistic goals. 
1) Judicial -duLac explicitly states that if a student commits a violation against the hall or univer­sity rules, his or her case is to be considered by either the hall or university Judicial board unless the student chooses to have his case heard by his rector or the dean of students. This is not the procedure that is in practice now· though. Getting responsible people ap· pointed to hall j-boards and reacti­vating the university j-board will be one of our main objectives. 
2) Social-The university does realize the need for an increased amount of social space on campus but just how soon and how much will largely be determined by the workings of the SBP 11nd his (or her) officers. We~~.. dte majority of social activit:.!~ taJting place on the hall and club level. We plan to put out a booklet Iising all possible social activities and exactly how to go about organizing them. Also we want to see better utilization of Stepan Center. There is a great deal of good talent coming out of Chicago (2nd City for example) that would love to come to N.D. and can provide great entertainmnet at very reasonable costs. 
3) Off-Campus-We realize that most off-campus students are more independent in nature and won't come to Student Government for help therefore we plan to go to the 0-C student with programs like hallmark, on campus storage over breaks etc. We also want to implement a daily shuttle system to key off campus places such as Campus View, St. Louis Ave. and 
N.D. apartments etc. This shuttle would make direct runs to these places and back to campus three to four times a day when students are most likely .to .be commuting. to or Monday, February 28, 1977 the observer 
5 

from campus. this would be especially valuable during the win­ter months when cars don't,;c.tart and walking is an unbearable task. 
4) Awareness-At Notre Dame there are numerour programs and organizations for student interests and to aid them in every possible way but most people aren't aware of their existence. Through a weekly or bi-weekly column in the observer or by other means if necessary, we want to help the students realize all that they have available to them. 
In conclusion, Student Govern­ment is here to help represent and aid the students in every way possible. It must be the coordina­tor of all activities and programs on campus because it has info coming in from sources all over campus and can help make these activities a success. ' 

Miranda-Clinton 
In an open letter to the students, Ralph and I would like to explain some of the programs we would carry out if elected to office. We would also like to explain how we organized our campaign and some of our personal feelings about how it was run. 
The student government should be an organization that is open, available and helpful to the stu­dents whom it is representing. It is neither a joke, nor a secretive organization whose activities and inner workings are but known to a few. A direct phone line to the president, a campus newsletter explaining what the student government has accomplished, and hall visits are but a few of the ideas that could be implemented. Com­munication· is a very important aspect of a well-functioning government. Through better com­
--munication with the students, hall governments and the administra­tion many problems and conflicts could be avoided. Scheduling conflicts between concerts, parties, and dances could be avoided. A more even distribution of activities throughout the semester is impor­tant. It appeared that some weekends many students had noth­ing to do, while on other weekends they were deluged with numerous activities of various sorts. The possibility of the establish­ment of a gathering place on campus such as a pizza parlor with an informal type atmosphere has been considered. Through such a site, interaction between students, faculty, and parents could be improved. If the drinking age were lowered to 19, beer could be served on the premises. Once in office we would evaluate the possibilities of such a meeting place and accom­plish this goal. We consider a re-evaluation of hall visiting hours a very important part of our platform. Through discussion of this matter with students, rectors, and the adminis­t-.l.tion we could find out exactly what each group wants and what is feasible. A campus wide question­naire would be distributed to the students, and the results reviewed so as to arrive at some middle-of­the-road solution in which everyone would be in agreement. These we consider to be the most important points of our platform. We have arrived at these few maj_or 

points by obtaining the opinions of 
a number of students. We have 
been presented with many other 
proposals, but feel that it is 
necessary to start someplace, and 
work up from there. 
We would like to thank Tim 
Cawley and the rest of the election 
committee for the help they have 
given us in this election. Our 
campaign expenses were $43.67, of 
which about half came out of our 
own pockets, and the rest from 
contributions. We thank our quad 
co-ordinators and hall representa­

tives for all they've done for us. We accomplished a lot with, the 25 people that we worked with and without them, all this would not have been possible. In many cas~s we put up posters in buildings only to find them all torn down the next day and other candidates posters substituted in their place. We have run a clean, honest campaign and therefore feel it would be very easy for us to run the same type of government, one that is honest and 
open to the students. 

Mooney-Morrison 
These past few weeks have been a great learning experience. I have· never been connected with Student Government before, and even this brief candidacy period has shed new light on the University, the Student Government, the "student Body", and many individual stu­dents. The one aspect of the whole situation which stood out the most was the game of electioneering. I have constantly been confronted with a great disparity between what we want to say and what "they" want to hear. 
One of my closest friends re­marked, "Where are your posters? It doesn't look like you guys want to win." I can offer only two explanations. First, one way communication, like this, is limited by both time and space, and eliminates all questions and ex­planations. Second, most of the candidates play defensive politics. Their posters and promises are suited by what people want to hear, not what should be said. 
Where does this leave us? A serious gap has evolved between elections and government. Can­didates display a grand deception to the voters. I question their motives and sense of honesty. I ask that you look beyond the elec­tioneering. Government is a simple machine run by competent people with a sense of purpose. When we offer ourselves as the honest alternative, its more than a slogan, it's what we are. 
How laherendy effecdve Is Student Govemmeat't 
1) Some of the projects students would like to see accomplished cannot be achieved on the Student Government funds alone. In order for these proposals to become realitY Student Government must convince the University that the proposal merits the remaining necessary funds. 
2) Some projects are contrary to the University's image or ideals. Obviously, the University would neither approve nor financially support these projects. Their completion would be greatly ham-· pered. 
~ :--.),.
.•.-.• -:-t­


N---.-·-o.. · 
:r: .~ ·_ . '~ 
SMG

'l-H~-ATR[j 
$2.50 l$2 Std, Fad 284-4176· 

3) The area in which Student Government is most effective is the structure and content of its own institutions. This efficiency de­pends only upon the opinion and vote of the Student Government and the Student Body. 
With this concept of efficiency, carefully consider the proposals and promises of all the candidates. Our Approach 
• 1) we have investigated the primary source material made available by the various student and University organizations. (i.e. Th · Student Government Constitu­tion, duLac, and special reports) 
2) We plan to couple this background material with new information and our own dedication to take on such projects as Student Union tickets sales, cable televi­sion, aspects of coeducation, and social space. 
Our only proposal is to constitu­tionally require that the Vice-Pres­idential candidate be a freshman or sophomore. 
Some may argue that this propo­sal is too restrictive, but in reality the only restriction is that a junior cannot be a Vice-Presidential can­didate. Others may argue that this will set up a ruling elite because the previous year's Vice-President can run for the Presidency. We believe "re-election" will be a strong check on any incompetent Vice-President who desires the Presidency. 
Our reasons for supporting this proposal are threefold. First, it would necessitate( a greater level of inter-class cooperation. Second, it would provide a continuity to student government, whereby the lower echelon personnel associated with the Vice-President would shift upwards in succeeding years. Finally, this system would guaran­tee one experienced potential can­didate in every election. 
We believe this proposal is feasible because unlike many of the other campaign promises our pro­posal does not depend upon money, the University, or extensive cooperation by other students. Our proposal needs only the favorable opinion and vote of you, the student. 

Hohman-Barlett 
You can't change Notre Dame. Student Government hasn't been able to in the past, and the situation won't be any different next year. It's a waste of our time and money to keep throwing a lot of proposals at the administration. 
There aren't too many people here that are really concerned about Student Government, and since Student Government doesn't produce any effective results-why should it be such a big deal? All we want to do is make Student Government simple. All we prom­ise is that if elected-it won't be a big deal. It all you "apathetic students" unite and vote Hohman­Bartlett tomorrow-we'll keep our promise. 
Observer 
Op-Ed 

THEY 
Polish playwright 
Stanislaw Witkiewicz' hilarious farce on human existence 
Mar. 3,4,5 ats:oo p.m. 
O'Laughlin Auditorium 
-

Bender-Soma 
The biggest question of this election finally seems to be: what is the difference between the nine . candidates, or what does it matter who is electe4, since they all seem to be the same. The answer is that all nine candidates are not the same, and it wiD make a tangible difference who you choose to elect on Tuesday. 
Tom Soma and I differ from the 
other eight candidates in several 
important wa~·s, ways which we 
think best quaiify us to serve you as 
President and Vice-President. 
First of all, look at all the 
candidates' platforms. You'll no­
tice that the Bender/Soma ticket is 
the only ticket that is trying to get 
the SLC to deal with what it is 
meant to deal with, i.e. Student 
Life. The fact is that the Student 
Life Council does not deal with 
student life, and has failed to affect 
our lives in any way for the past 
three years. The SLC spent their 
last meeting discussing Christian 
Sexuality--a good topic for a 
discussion group perhaps, but not 
for the body on campus that is to 
make recommendations, sugges­
tions, and proposals to the Admini­
stration regarding our lives here. 
All of the other candidates wish 
to keep the SLC in its present form. They talk of "revitalizing" it, or giving it more "input," but what do these terms really mean? If elected, Tom Soma and I would restructure the SLC and replace the ·Faculty and Administrators with six hall rectors. We feel that student life at Notre Dame revolves around the dormitories, and there­fore the decisions and policie& affecting these dormitories should be made by the very people who live and work there, i.e. the rectors and the students. By restructuring the SLC around the people who most affect and are affected by student life, tangible results can 
and will occur. 
Secondly, we're the only candi­
date to call for any reall accounta­
bility for the Student Union. The 
Student Union handles $51,000 of 
our money each year, and we feel 
that more than one person should 
be involved in the decision-making 
process. H elected, we would 
require the Board of Directors of 
the Student Union to meet once a 
month (they've only met three 
times all year.) In addition, we 
would require the Student Union to· 
present its budget and calendar to 
the HPC at the beginning of each 
semester, so as to avoid foul-ups 
such as scheduling five hall formals 
on the same night as a concert. 
Finally, Tom Soma and I are the only candidates that make any mention of utilizing the alumni for support in a<;hieving our goals. I have met with members of the alumni board and have found them open and willing to help Student Government improve Student Life at ND. Take lighting, for example. Try to tell an alumnus (especially one with a daughter here) that the University feels that it cannot afford adequate lighting on campus to help insure security for its students. 
The alumni understand the im­
pact of only 1.5 sq. ft. of social 
space in Howard Hall and the other halls on campus where social space facilities are poor. The improve• ments we seek are legitimate and the alumni will respond to our request for support by way of letters, phone calls, and input. 
There Is a difference between the Bender/Soma ticket and any other ticket, but what is even more important is that Tom and I have the experience to make that differ­ence count. Of course, many of the candidates run~ng can point to long records of service in Student Government, but how many of them have actually made a concrete and tangible difference on your life at Notre Dame? Tom Soma has. Because of my running mate's work on the calendar issue, all of us enjoyed a Thanksgiving break that we weren't destined to enjoy had it not been for Tom. Farmer Brown was reinstated because of Tom's efforts, and by the end of this year, the males at ND will be able to shrink their shirts themselves be­cause of the laundromat that Tom is responsible for. 
As President of Sorin Hall, the Hall's social life has increased measureably, and we became a closer community than before. In, addition, Sorin hosted many cam­pus wide activities on its porch that benefited the University Commu­nity as a whole. 
Finally, I would like to close by asking for your support in making Student Government meaningful. It will never be meaningful here unless a student can honestly say 
-
that their student government has touched them in a positive and individual way. That's what our goal is, that's why we're running, that's what we're all about. 
There is a difference--please vote for that difference--Dave Bender and Tom Soma. 
SSP campaign violations 
[continued &om page 1] rriday evening. We made him 
bring in his petitions and we felt he 
made a good effort, although we 
have heard from reliable sources 
that four petitions were still being 
circulated over the weekend,'' he 
continued. 
Carmichael said one reason why the committee took action on this was because Ricci's petitions also had room for phone numbers, something the official petition did not. Cawley admitted there had been some communication prob­lems and took some of the blame for the mix-up, but maintained Ricci altered the petitions. 
The committee fined Ricci one cent a petition an charged it against his $50.00 campaign limit. 
Ricci also had campaign posters set up on Campus Press by a Student union worker before hav­ing it run off at Insti-Print in South Bend. This was viewed as an unfair advantage by the Committee (Campus Press is part of the Student Union of which Ricci is director). Cawley t"'1:plained that the money saved by setting up the poster at Campus Press before bringing it to Insti-Print would be charged against Ricci's campaign limit. The amount was roughly 
~.00. . 
"When we drew up the rules, the election was three weeks away. We never got any questions on campaigns. Little did I realize that campaign staffs were over-zealous. 
, "Rignt now, there are a lot of allegations and very few facts going around," Carmichael said. Cawley closed the conference by saying that "all the tickets in the campaign are clean now. We've taken care of as much as we can." 
ND-SMC THEATRE TRYOUTS 

Fiddler On The Roof 
Singers-Actors-Dancers
-. 
Sun Feb. 27, 5-9 pm Mon Feb. 28 7 -lOpm . In 0' Laughlin Aud. ' 

By Apoointmenr Only 
Calf284-4141 
Audition Materials Available SPDR Off. Rm. 110 Moreau (SMC) SPDR Off. Washington Hall (ND) OPEN TO ALL ND-SMC STUDENTS ',. 

----~-------~------­
i 

r-*The Observer . an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. 'mary's 
The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries~ opinions and letters are the views of t~eir authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and letters are encouraged to promote the free expression of varying opinions on campus. 
1;3ox Q 

Martha L. Fanning Production Editor
Business Manager Tom Fronczak 
Notre Dame Fred Herbst Sports Editor
Advertising Manager Mike Miller 
Ind. 46556 Tom Byrne Contributing Editor
Photo Editor Tony Chifari 
Monday, February 28, 1977 




Don't Blow It 
EDITORIAL BOARD Thomas O'Neil Editor-in-Chief Dan Sanchez Managing Editor Chris Smith I Asst. Managing Ed. 
Gregg Bangs , Executive Editor Val Zurblis Executiv<> Editor Pat Hanifin Editorial Editor 
Tim O'Reiley Features Editor Bob Mader Exec. News Editor Maureen Flynn Campus Editor Marti Hogan St. Mary's Editor 
Kathy Mills News Editor 
Barb Breitenstein News Editor Don Reimer Copy Editor 
In September, the Saint Mary's student body finally came alive when a large, enthusiastic crowd attended a meeting supporting extended visitation hours. 
Acting on the results of the meeting and on a Student Government survey showing that eighty percent of St. Mary's students favored the extension, Student Govern­ment created a parietal.s committee. The committee was ordered to review and research the question: 
Now, however, the parietals committee may be forced to end its investigation as a result of student apathy. This may end any hope of extending visitation hours in the future. What happened to all the enthusiasm? 
The committee has worked diligently and consistently since the meeting, send­ing out surveys to parents, alumnae, faculty, administration and students. It did so gladly because you, the students promised you would work for a change. 
Throughout the year, however, the committee sent out and compiled the surveys with little or no extra help. As if this were nbt enough, less than thirty percent of the student body bothered to return the surveys (which only take 15 minutes to fill out) to their R.A.s. Even worse, 'a larger percentage of parents and alumnae responded than did the students. H you are not responsible enough to hand. in your surveys, are you responsible enough to handle extended visitation hours? 
How can you be so apathetic about an issue you were so excited about a few months ago? Have you changed your minds and decided you like the present parietals rule after all? H not, you should get moving. Attending one meeting will not get things done but only give them a start. · Following through is just as important as taking the initial step. 
You still have a chance to receive extended parietals. the surveys returned from alumnae, faculty and administration indicate that they will stand by the decision of the students. Sixty percent of the student body must tum in its surveys by Friday to the R.A.s or Diane Smitts, parietals committee chairperson. Other­wise, the committee will consider the issue closed. Hthe parietals question is dropped because of student apathy, Student Government can only assume that you don't care about anything. H you care at all, come through with your surveys by this Friday. 
====================================================~ 
OKAY, CLASS, tET'S HeY, MAN, NOTSO.' MY OON'T ALL SETTLE OOIJJN I ti!HY ()5? OLOER BR07J.IEI< IAJORRY, OR. KI551N6£R /A/Itt., I 7HOU6HT TOtO M£AU/1801/T 8ARNE~ BE HER£ IN A FeW HE WAS THE tuAR BEFO/?C HE YOU'RE 
8eNGFeo l8fl 70 G/?OIJJ 5TIU THEI T07J.IEGRAO CA88.46£35 UWMATE 
.STU/JEMS. 
\ 
VISTA & PEACE CORPS ,_ED YOUR SK1l.L!! i 


REPRESENTATIVES I WILL BE ON CAMPUS~. 

MARCH 2-4 AT THE LIB­
RARY CONCOURSE OR THE PLACEMENT BUR­EAU--9-4:30 

IN VERMONT.' fRESHMAN. 
' 
Attention: 
Minority Students Interested In 

Law School 
The IIT/Chicago-Kent College of Law is located in the heart of one of the major legal centers in the United States. Along with a full time day division, the College offers classes in the evenings to students who must work during the day. Freshmen may apply for either the fall or spring semesters. Teh Bulletin for prospective students states the following with regard to admissions. "Students from racial, ethnic, and cultural minorities are particularly encouraged to apply. It is only through a substantial increase in the number of such applications that the legal profession can change the imbalance that currently exists bctwt>en lawyers from racial, ethnic, and cultural minorities, and tho~e from majority groups." 
Any interested applicants are encouraged to contact the Minority Recruitment Committee of the Student Bar Associa­tion by phoning or writing to: Jim Koch-Chairman of the Minority Recruitment Committee c 'I Student Bar Association liT/Chicago-Kent College of Law 77 South Wacker Dr. Chicago. HI. 60606 , 312-567-5017 
Applications may also be obtained by wri~ing to the adinission!'> oflice at the above address. 
the president's corner---­

What the SBP 
I 

Nee.ds --by the SBP 
, mike gassman 
:As campus elections close in on u~, the major focus is on the people running, fighting, clawing, or whatever for Student Body Pres­id!;!nt and Vice-President. I guess I kriow what it was like, I fought that w~r twice in my college career. Nc)w, after a year in office things appear quite differently. 

II have struggled through twelve mpnths that began with a gallant aqd noble perception of the office aqd now near the end with a realistic view of the role of SBP and St]ldent Government -a view you will probably find quite hidden in th~ campaigns to follow. Because of\ this reality that is seldom ad}ressed, I wish to share those di coveries I have made. 
· he first thing of importance for th SBP and SBVP is a vision, a vis~on that can weather the storm an~ remain realistic. It is so easy, and quite tempting campaign-wise, to!tll a. platform with proposals, re ructuring, and promises. 
he ~eak candidate calls for a new "machine" that will make the stu~ent' government more succes­
ful and efficient, contendmg that ne committees and structures will be. better than the present com-m*ees and structures. He lists 
se\leral "issues and concerns" of
,I

students, vowing to solve them all. 
Hei doesn't understand how a 
stuldent government works . nor do~s he realize what his "new 
machine" must do or will do. 
owever, the strong candidate 

un; erstands what can be done and ho\f to do it. His vision is for a hand-working crew of people who wil) attack the issues of student corjcern with success. He knows thajt his accomplishments are tern­perled by time and station -so he 
sedks to conquer what student government can, letting Father 
He$burgh and Jimmy Carter con-
uh the world. He realizes that

q , 
H&l/.., Y&S. EVEN I AM? FINO YO{} !<£FI?E5H/NG! 
I -+
-, 
c 
a.. 
(1) Q 
c 

bureaucracy is successful only with the media, ,while hard work and perspiration win the real battles he will face. 
The second factor to consider is conscience and integrity. These are the characteristics hardest to judge in an election, but essential to a good administration. They weigh on every decision of the SBP -many of these decisions which only he will realize had to be made. And most ofall it is conscience and integrity that separate the can-\­didates seeking personal gain from those who work for the students, not themselves. 
Third, and most important is character. When one takes the office, even if he has vision, conscience, ;and integrity, he is constantly upder pressure -from students, press, and administra­tion. He is Criticized, laughed at, and deceived. He is hard-pressed by student apathy, from the whole student body: and at times from his 
own workers~ Many times his work will be rejedted, tabled, or even scoffed at. His success is often gauged by w,hat· hasn't been done 
instead of wliat has. 

The SBP must be able to handle this, remain! objective, and con­centrate on what is to be done. It is up to him an4.· his administration to 
do what is right and to keep to it,
regardless of, how his actions are taken. He can never be a quitter.
These are r,the basics of a good 
SBP and SBVP. However, for 
student government to be success­
ful, there must be continuity and 
' 

professionalism. Everyone wants 
new "solutions." You will never find ''solutio11s" in a platform, they cc,me from long hard work. There are few student issues like the calendar tha~ can be resolved in a single meeti.ng. Social space, 
alcohol, and parietals are resolved 
over time be.cause of their large­scale implications and costs. It is 
imperative for a new student administratior to continue with the work that is presently being done. If one star;ts completely from scratch, you Ican never expect to accomplish the solution of student concerns in dne year. 
Rhetoric \\jill flow, posters and platforms wil~ appear. Statements will be made! of what's wrong with this years st~dent government and how next y~ars will be better. Media and students will speak of poobahs and [apathy. Such is the. nature of a political campaign. 
Take a second glance, a realistic one. Student \Government can and does succeed. Look for vision, integrity' conscience, and charac­ter. Because the people who win face the toughest jobs .--: campus ­believe me. 
POETRY READING. 
HERBERT SCOTT 


I I 
I 

I Monday, February 28, 1977 th'e observer 7 
Eigh~ SBP candi~ateS hold second me~ting 
[continued &om p~~ge l] . government to ~.:uoramated !the them." up and kick 'around issues and try ment, l activities-orientitig social Mciver platform. "We ought to be activities on campus.· . In answer to questions, Hardy to cover all the bases, but the level life, and making the student lead­lobbying for other cotttems as we In response to questions, Talbot explained her platform deals not is childish," he accused. "Nothing ers more visible. Russell also are for the drinking bill," Hardy said he sees the role of the SBP as only with "idealism", but also with intelligent is being said. There is urged students to exam.!ne his stated. "It is time to take a look at "the respresentative of the stud~nt which the same problems the other fanfare but on issues the can­nine-point platform,which "is more our priorities." body with the administration •nd candidates concerned themselves. didates are the weakest. They extensive than the other candi­
within the student body." ' ''At Notre Dame, it is imperative to make incredible promises that dates' platforms," he said.
Talbot-Hughes 

Additional forums ! work within the framework of can't be kept," he said. "Our distinguishing character­"We are directing our campaign SBP candidates will again m¢et Christianity. All these intitutions Lew sees the role of the SBP as istic, '' Russell noted, "is our toward developing good working with students in two forums to­are vehicles of love. The Student "a Student Body Secretary of ability to implement ideas. Werelations," John Talbot explained. 
night. The first will be at 6:30 p.ht. Body president should raise the State, not as a ''big power wield-· have proven ourselves able to deal "This is very elementary and yet it in Keenan-Stanford chapel and •is consciousness of students with the , er." Lew stated he would strive for with problem~, We would not be is not done." In doing so,· Talbot sponsored by Keenan Hall. The issues. We should stop talking democracy in the student govern­only implementing our own ideas, outlined four proposals, looking second, sponsored by Grace Hall, about what we want and talk abouf ment, and would use the Hall but any of those of the other into the Judicial board system, will be at 8 p.m. in Grace. what is needed." President's Council (HPC), "the candidates that are important as improving the social space by The SBP candidate also empha­Lew-Dunegan biggest potential for power." well."· "bringing activities back to the hall sized the need for a more minority­Opening with puns on the other RusseU-Geppert Russell explained the role of SBP and club level," going out to oriented student government. ''All candidates' platforms, Tim Lew Emphasizing his experience, ''is unclear,'' in response to ques­off-campus students and making minorities here are ignored, not ·then began attacking them, calling SBP candidate J.P. Russell stress­tions. "We need to put down in people more aware of the prob­only the blacks," she said. "We ·student government "elitist." ed three goals for his administra­writine: what specific responsibili­lems. Talbot plans to utilize hall must admit there are minority '_'Every year the candidates drag tion -revitalizing student gover._!l-ties of the SBP are." representatives and the student problems here and deal with 
NOTICES FOUND: ND class rinn, Class of.· AmtrakJoAnne--Whendoyouwnat GirlswantedForFATWALLY'Swet



, ~------------------------------------------­
I 
Excellent opportunity' to use your '7_8'_1l1~1_e:_l_d_e~_Hf_y,_4:4_9_4_9:............ C'OSSI;/.I•ed AdS to~o-to_ll~l-y?__________ ~................... ~:s_hir~-~~nt~s':.~~-~~_2~-~:?.~~-~----··--·
11 
I 
I 
skill where it is really needed. SR50 Calculator lost Wednesday in ~I Your Attention Please! This week-"Hello Mom, Sue and "cripps" in VISTA needs volunteers all over the the Engineering Building. 1 need it. end, Notre Dame's own Daday was Denver from Sunny South Bend. United States in a variety of posi-desperately to pass this term. . HELP!! Devoted Hockey fan desper-found wandering around campus in Steve. lions. Training, paid travel; living Reward. Call Tim 287-3689. ately desires one ticket to Sat., a drunken stupor. This was not his ............................................... allowance; medical care; more. For ....................................... March 5 game (Wisconsin). Am very normal state (it's Pennsylvania) he Dearest Sue G, Glad you're finally I 
full details on benefits and require-poor but will pay$$ to see Red was just celebrating the 22nd anni-old enough to appreciate the ments, contact VISTA recruiters at Wilkie one more time. Or will trade versary of the birth of his mother's mature men in life. Love, the Library Concourse or the Place-one ·.,ood seat tor Fri (MCJrch 4 oldest son. Bolak ment Bureau, March 2-4, 9 am-4 :30 game-) If you have a heart, Call Happy Anniversary, Steve!! ............................................... pm each day. wANTED Karen, 288-2627. .........~..................................... Mimeo Machine--Fully Automatic-­WHY PAY$10.00 FOR PERSON+ ....................................... DearWild Bunch :doyouthinkit's Never used-Works perfectly--To ALIZED, ASTROLOGICAL BIRTH Need ride to KC or KS. Area. Share possible all of us could stay put for Highest Bidder. Call3342 
I 
I I CHARTS FORM IMPERSONAL expenses. Sill 6768.-one weekend?? For our sake, we ............................................... COMPUTERS? DETAILED, TYP-__ ,................_.................... hope not!! GB, HAS, MB, LH Dear Randy H--Siop Stalling-Lets do ED PROFILES-!%??! Call Pat--7339 2 girls need ride to San Antonio for Wanted: 4 hockey tickets for Wise. ............................................... it!! Where and When?? Ph. No. ......................................... spril)g break. Will shar.e driving and March 5. Call after 5 256-1341. SPORTS ILLUSTRATED'S TEAM 1257 Love, Sharon L. 1
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND $20-150. expenses. Call4-5115. .........._.................................... OF THE YEAR: The Hinh Rollers-.............................................. 1 day wait, 1 percent interest. Due ........................................ WANTED: 2 tickets for SF Call after congratulations and good-luck. Mercedes 19 years of maturity, in 30 days. La Fortune Basement. WANTED: 2 housemates for ND 5,2561341. maybenowyou'llseethingstheway 
I 
~:~·--1_1_:_1_5 __1_2_:_1_5_____ .. .............. ~~~tin~n~~~c~e~\~te~y~ 11 t~av~th~~ GA..Tl~k~i~--t~~--;,.:,;;~~~~-~;~---s~~i-~~-. ~~r~~nthony would rather be a high l_d~:-~-~~~y-~irthd~y: ..~-~~·--~!~~----­
1 
NEED TYPING? Executary Inc. Steff, 288-4113. March 4 and 5. Will Pay anything!! Feeling Depressed?? ND-SMC Hot-Professional Typing Service. 85 ............................................... Call John, 289-2542. Nothing to do Thursday night?? line 4-4311 open ni,.,'•ts. cents a page 232-0898. Ride needed to Ft. Lauderdale for 3 ............-.................................. Come see you• favorites, The High ................... .................... 
I 
I wiii'i;~~;;·~~~--~,-~i~--i~--y~~-~-~-~~~~ ~e~p-l~~n-~a_rcf1__1_~:-~a_l~-~-1-3~:....... ~~~~sG6~sA:::~o:~~~SEA~~ ~~-~~~~~·-q_uie_t_~~e-~~iefs_~~-~~-~~~-i~: ~~ly~:v~~'.,d~n~~~c t~u~~.e ~~~~~ t_i_me_. c a_I_~_B e_t_h __11_2 ·.................... My buddy, Harry Callahan needs 4 _1i!4 E 1N4 S0 -, Sybil, Saturday night was great!! ha> it that you are not as dull as vou
___ __ __ __ __ 8 __ __ WESI.LPLLSEPALSITEUCPA,L'SHA 160E,X4~5E USED BOOKS. BOOK BARN, ~~~~~~~i-xforSanFranciscoorelse. · _ _ ..... ii~~r!x~~~:t~r~~~d~?cih~omprehen-~-~~-rTI:_I_~?r.ee!_~~-ul .....................
1 277 4588 
72

I rn.i~~-~-~r~~-01 -~otr.e_~~-rTI~:. 2. .-.~~-2 ?. N~~d-Tl~--f~~--5~~--F~~-~~i;~~--~~~~ :i~i~i~-~~~d-~ld~-i~-B~i~~-R~-~~~·:·~-. Pro ~:a !~~~~y:s~~~! T~~~ li~is~~~ 
I 
The Accurate, Fast Typing. Mrs. Dono-Call Marth 4-4819. -For Spring Break. Share expenses ....................... .................... 8lgland?? Only ten more. Don't ho. 232-0746. Hours --8 am to 8 pm. ............. ........_.. '-'-'-',·:----~~-----and Driving. Call Patty or Anne. Tim, Sorry the ad was late. No more forget Daddy's teet. Love, Golden 
I 

• 
· ·........ .. ........... N d 'd H f S . 4-5427. tricks are being played on me Bear

1 1


• 
FORRENT B~:ak.r~$~a~e 17~~~on or prong ............................................... anymoresohereitis. TELEPHOTO LENS: 200mm f3.5 GBB 217 c h · Th....k; ..i.......... I


I 
Three bedroom house for rent ........................._..................... Soli11or T-4 with mount for Nikon, ho al~tanat~p : ~n h ~r you~
· 1 1 01

unfurnished. Fencect yard. Near Two girls need ride to Ft. Lauder-Nikkromat. Includes sun shade and Stevie Wonderboy, spo a y. our on Y e gues
9 I 
I ~=~i~~alst~~~~~t.aiQ~~~so~:i~~b~~~ ~-~~~-;~-~-S~ri~-g-~r~-a~---c~~~-~: 4 ~ -l.or !~f~~7ed ~: c~g~~: M~~~fta,c~~ntg~~ ~~c~~s~hl~'~ ~~oo0du~hf~., ~~~~~~sB~; :o::::~:~: Did ;~~-~~-~s-~~~~d~ I 
112

I ~-o~d---~~-_ _ _3 ~:-~ 1 _2 8 _· .............-.... ... Earthquakes will hit if I don't get 4 ~Yc~p~~~h~~~-~i~~n a m:~nt~o~~ri: didn't run out of Whiskey. with Creed Saturday night? I like 
San Francisco tix!! Call Fred at 1 Drunken Buddies guys with that distinctive look. Meet I 
4 bedrooms, livi11g room, dining _ Call1845, Ask for Tony. --------------------me at the .ballroom at 3:00. Miss
287 2771 . room, kitchen. Utilities paid. $100 .................... "Watch Closely Now" All my ___ ar_l_e_t ·..·
Sc__ __ .......................•.....·..•.. 
per month. Call Oscar 233-1850. H.EiLP·~-~·;;~t·t~--~h~-b~~~h-!!!·2-~i~i~ AUDIO OUTLET: top name stereo wonderful Neighbors in Walsh: ~ . .. ..... · ~--................................... need a ride to Ft. Lauderaale for e~uipment wholesale. Call 283-1181 Thanks for such an "Agele.ss and To the Skids on the Row, ·.:. 
1 
~~~ :::r::':ch':o~s:e~. 7n1t;_ ~~~; break. Call7401 or 3725. FO....S..............:----·t--~--~ .. ;::· ~~~;~a~e~~~::~day!! Love, Esther Have a "teal" time, "nice" tim~~ ~ Street. s120 month I'Ius0utilities. .. ...........................................,. Goo~ s:a7~'c2alf~~~sv~. 147:on ox. .. ... ......... ..... ~d "real nice" time at Boston. no..,_·:. Call Oddies Harris t1t 232-8563. ~;~n~i~o ~~ic:~~S~! 1 ;"e 4 GA San ....................... ...... ........ .A spow a day keeps the dOctor al -----........... :.... ........ .............:i_ ••-<, ............. ............................ 1 FOR SALE: CB Hy Gain-High play. · Marlin, s days till heaven ana siX· I 
-
For rent next school year--9 month · pk;~~~--H~i~-!!w:~i~--t~i~-~d-,;~~d~--~ range I. Antenna Specialist's trunk days till tiell. 11 1become a devil, will · lease. Two furnished hOuses, 4 mount antenna. $11. Kevin 1958. Desperalely Needed Rides lo FL th AG
1 1 
bedroom and S bedroom. Near place to stay March thru August. Lauderdale for Break. Please Help. JAgeG,siosmilemsoyrmeptaha.n~a·.·_f..e.·e·l·i·n·.,·_·,·.-?...~:~. I 
ca11284·5720 

2626 . Rld·~--~~~~~-~i~i;·~~~d-~d--,~--c~~-~--You can build a better futtKe for Sieve, I like your Snoopy Swealer. ,.....e~. r '-+e lo p·11 tor spr·n..g...b..r·e::.~·.· .J
ND--Otf Street parking--Call: 234-· ...............P'E:iso'N.A'Ls............ Call Rosanne or Pe(l-4682 
area for spring break. Will gladly '""' u 1u 11 '"' 
h others while enhancing your own . . Woodslock ..BckJ~9J · ~­
s are expenses and driving . Call .as a Peace Corps volunteer. we 
Marie, 4-4369 · .. ·•
LOST AND FOUND offer 2-year positions in Africa, Asia Book of Revelations is an esoteric sailing club pictures tonight ~~·(,·,];,::. or South America; paid travel; bio-psycholo!licallrea·;,r on Kunda. ~-303 Engineering Bldg. BE
Need ride to .fort Lauderdale March

Found: Watch on Notre Dame Ave. monthly living allownace; heallh lini, i.e., The Holy Spon·. If in1eresl-'THERE!! 
1
Break. Anne1848

Ci!ll289-1408. care;48 days paid vacation. Musl be ed call Michael Cecil 233 7191. 
I 


ICJ"here IS a difference!!! 
PREPARE FOR: 

~·~·~ 
GMAT • GRE • OCAT CPAT • VAT ·SAT 
Our broad range of programs provides an umbrella of test­ing know-how that enables us to offer the best preparation available, no matter which course Is taken. Over 38 years of experience and success. Small -classes. Voluminous home study materials. Courses that are constantly up­dated. Permanent centers open days & weekends all year. Complete tape facilities for review of class lessons and for use of supplementary materials. Make-ups for missed les­sons at our centers. 

ASK ABOUT OUR COMPACT COURSES 
2050 W. Devon ~~~ 
Chicago, Ill. 60645 IIC'AIPIAN. (312) ] 64·5151 
EDUCATIONAL CENTER 
Outside NY State Onlv 
CALL TOLL FREE 
TEST PREPARATION 

• • 5PECIALISTS SINCE I 93b
800 221 9840 

PREPARE FOR THE NEW MCAT WHERE THERE IS ALWAYS A DIFFERENCE 

~............................ 



Feature Artist on Tape (8-12) 
Big Band Jazz (9-1 t} 
(9-11) Steve Bowers 
Thursday Pat Russel (9-11)
•• Be
• 
Friday David Faainuinu (9-11)

• 
There!!! Saturday Hell Night Band in 



: the Ballroom ( Big Funky Deal ) • Disco in the Nazz (8-1) • 
t.............................. 
• _ • US citizen, sin(lle or married, no Aller 8 pm. To lht• coirl in 'he tlowinco clolhin11L.o•,t al Campus View Apo>: t-lutty, HELP.1 Need rode to Northern New dependents, 18 years old. Contact · v.ho c<tlls rhllllC~ inlo the nicoh' who ' brr,wn and while dor1, answers to_ Jersey (NYC area) for break. Call Peace Corps al lhe Placemenl SOOLAIMON. SIVA IS BACK. IJ'c·you? . . 
'Jo~maica". Call Guls, 277-4365. Mark 1200. Bureau or the Librarv Concourse, V.M Sonilh \ 
1 

. ~·. .. . . .. .. ,. ·" .....-.... ,.l.~ryiC-..~:


~-----------------~=~-~~--------------------~ 
;. _.... --~.~ ·. ~~,::·1:lt 
;,.,. 

..t--·:::-.:~~ #! 
r-------~------~ 

Irish rout Explorers; no.1 Don.s next 
by Fred Herbst Rich Branning added 18 (five for nine from the floor Sports Editor and eight for ten from the gift line), Dave Batton hit on six of seven shots from the floor on way to 13, Dave Convincing. That's the only way to describe Notre Kuzmicz added 11 (five of nine from the field), and Dame's 113-77 rout of LaSalle Saturday. Bill Paterno contributed ten (four of nine field goal 
The Irish had six men in double figures, shot 62 attempts). percent from the field, piled up 23 . assists and Jeff Carpenter aided the Irish offense with seven outrebounded their opponents by an incredible 42-24 assists. Branning added five. margin as they trounced the Explorers by 36. LaSalle didn't shoot too poorly either, hiiting on 53 
"Everything they threw at us we adjusted to," pecent of their field goal attempts. Mike Brooksheld· Digger Phelps, Notre Dame head coach, said. "We the Explorers with 21 points (eight of 12 field goals). never expect to win easily, but today we had things Donn Wilber added 18 points on eight of 12 field goal going our way." attempts and Kurt Kanaskie chipped in with 16 
LaSalle played the Irisheven,trailing by ~nly a point markers (eight of 16). halfway through the opening period before Notre Kanaski also added 7 assists to the Explorer cause. Dame erupted. Using ten points from Toby Knight, The win improved Notre Dame's record to 19-6, and the Irish went on a 21-4 sooring spurt to 'open a 46-28 secured an NCAA bid for the Irish according to lead. Notre Dame led at the half, 54-40. Phelps. "When you pick the top 32 teams in the 
Picking up where they left off, the Irish opened the country we have to be one," he said. "Right nowit's second half by taking off on a 12-1 spurt that gave just a matter of where they send us.'' them a 66-41 edge with 17 minutes to play and ended LaSalle's mark dropped to 15-11. whatever doubt may have remained concerning the outcome after the first half. The undefeated number-one ranked Dons of 
Notre Dame coasted the rest of the way to victory. SanFrancisco are next for the Irish as Notre Dame 
"All we tried to do was wear them down and closes their home season next Saturday. hopefully get a spurt going here and there," the Irish "I've seen some great games and some fierce head coach noted. ''Today we got the spurts that we emotions in the ACC," Phelps commented, "but I were looking for. " think that this Saturday's contest could be the most 
Duck Williams paced the hot-shooting Irish with 22 emotional ever played here. We're looking forward to markers (nine of 15 from the floor). Knight connected meeting them. They're a challenge, one that we'll be on nine ?~!_1 field goal attempts on way to 21 points. ready to accept." 




Bengal Bouts kick off with full slate 
countered with a left jab scoring and ilitting his taller opponent atby Ray O'Brien the 125 lb. weight division. Terry landed his first punch, a bruising twice to the head. Norton ended will.
Sports Writer Broderick, Chuck Patton and Doug left, to the head of Doug Ogburn the fight the way he started it with Dean Lusardi, Rick Hohman and Borgatti all survived the first round sending the 135 lb. seniQJ: to the, canvas. Ogburn found himself a flurry which earned him the split Buzz Reynolds all pounded ou1
The 46th annual Bengal Bouts action to advance to the semi­sitting down again seconds later as decision. unanimous decisions rounding ou1
opened yesterday with a full slate finals. None of these bouts were Paul Chute and Mike Murphy the final four. 
of 40 matches that offered every spectacular as ooth the fighters and Grantham continued to score with crowd had just begun to warm up. the left. A tough Ogburn would not also battled their way into _the_ Three consecutive unanimou!
conceivable style of boxing to the Greg Grantham brought the stay down however, as Grantham semi-finals in a pair of hard hitting decisions were posted in the 175 lb 3,979vociferous spectators on hand bouts. category. John "Thunder" Thor·at the ACC. crowd alive for the first time as he took a unanimous decision. 

out of his J.P. Holbrook also took a unan­Joe Cooler started his bid for a ton led the way in a tough batthThe first bouts of the 
with Jim Harig. Casey Land save< he used quick lefts to the face of weight class with a convincing TKO his best round for last to outscore Mark Klein drawing blood in the over Martin Scanlon. Scanlon went freshman Kevin Zeisz. However process. Brian Diamond also down three times with the final the big battle was between Car advanced by way of a unanimous knockdown coming from an awe­Penn and John Ricotta. These twt decision as did Mike Mullin who some left hook that brought Scan­staged a "stand up knock hin was grantea an opening rounel oye. Ion off his feet. down" fight where very few pun 
One of the most closely contested Phil Harbert, president of the ches missed their target. Peru fights came in the 142 lb. division boxing club, showed his fellow finished the stronger of the tw between Steve Sefton and Walt members how it should be done. with a flurry of punches at the en• Strauser. Sefton started out as the Harbert mixed his punches well to get the final nod. The fourt 
aggressor using a series of com­sending a tough Paul Komlosi to contender in this division is Tha binations in the first and early part his knees three times to notch a "Nitro Nake" Naquin who wa of the second round. Then halfway unanimous decision. Jeff Haus­granted a bye. through the middle round, Strauser man and John Shanahan moved The upper weight divisions wer 
unleashed a left-right counter ahead on a split decision end a limited to four bouts with none c drawing blood from Sefton's nose. default respectively. the thunderous punchers in 1111 Strauser continued to land punches One of the closest weight classes year's contests appearing. After 
to the head as Strauser began is the 162 lb. division. Pete slow start, Tom O'Keefe landed bleeding profusely. However, a DeCelles, John Mandice and Jim right to the head of Chip Brink 1 bloodied Sefton finished strong and "Jimbo" Devine all posted unan­bring the 187 pound senior to tl: was awarded a unanimous decision imous decisions while Kevin Smith canvas. In the final round O'Kee1 which caused some heated reaction advanced via a TKO. unlashed a hard right that dre from the crowd. Mike Orlando, Terry Rogers and blood giving him the unanimot 
Anthony Ricci, Walt Rogers and Dave Bassette all squeeked out decision. Johnston Hill all notched victories split decisions in the 167Ib. class to Andy Panelli and returning ft advance to next Sunday's round. alist Jim Wolf slugged out de 
imous decision in th 135 lb. class as second straight crown in the 157 lb. 
The first knockout of the tourn­Brian Temme, a 1976 finalist, was isions to join John Hermanek arThe hard-hitting action of the Bengal Bouts began yesterday at the ament went to Brian Kilb. After a granted a bye. Kenny Harris (each with byes) ;ACC. [photo by Dom Yocius] rather inactive start, Kilb con­Bob Derdak claimed the last KO the final four in the 195 lb. dra"
nected with a jarring left and
Digger Phelps::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: of the five hour boxing extrav­Kevin Uniake ended the days eve
followed with a sledgehammer · 
aganza. The 172 lb. senior was all with a unanimous decision in tl
right to the head of opponent Bob 
over the taller Jay Foster from the only heavy weight action. 
Speer that sent the 147 lb. junior 
start. Derdak connected on a The semi-finah. will be stag•
into another world. 
Sign It! 
number of flailing combinations Sunday, Ma•:;l1 6 at 1:30 p.m. wi
Bob Jeanjuenat did not make the 
that shook up Foster. Derdak let it the winners moving on to the fin1
fans wait long for another KO as he
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: Coach's Corner go no farther than 24 seconds of the to be held Tuesday, March 8 at
sent Rick Mannion to the canvas for I've often stated my belief that the Notre Dame student body is second good with 1:24 gone in the second second round after drawing blood p.m. to none in the country. Not once in my six years as head basketball coach period. Dan Lackner and Keith "U here have I known the students to fail any athletic team at the University. fight'm" Ugone also notched unan­Now the student body has an opportunity to help the University by imous decisions to reach the semi 


Playoff tix to go on sale 
doing more than cheering their team to victory. Now they are faced with finals. 
the opportunity of helping preserve the best means of communication on Returning champ, Jim Quinn Notre Dame able to the University of No1 
the campus-The Observer. registered the third straight knock­will host some 1977 WCHA play-off Dame. 
The Observer is in financial trouble. The paper needs a rate increase out of the afternoon against Chris games. Tickets for any games that Student season ticket holdt from $3 to $6 for next year to continue printing. The trouble faced by the Nagle. Quinn paced himself the Irish may host will go on sale will have first priority in purch1 paper is real, it is not a bluff just to get an increase in subscriptions. through the first round relying on a beginning Tuesday, Mar. 1. ing play-off tickets. Students w Without the increase, The Observer will be forced to stop printing. series of combinations. In the The quarterfinal series will be present the face of their seas 
To continue publication, The Observer must get at least SO percent of second round the 152 lb. senior played on Wednesday, Mar. 9 and coupon book with their ID card the student body to sign petitions favoring the increase. The University caught Nagle off guard with a left Thursday, Mar. 10. The semifinal Tuesday, Mar. 1 from 9 a.m. t< can not bail out The Observer, only you-the student body, can save it. and followed with a left-right series would be played on Satur­p.m. at the Ticket Windows on 1 
Notre Dame doesn't have a major student center, there is no meeting combination setting the Flanner day, Mar. 12 and Sunday, Mar. 13. second floor of the ACC will rece' place where news and information can be passed along. Socially, sophomore on the seat of his pants. The final series would be played on tickets in Sec. 8. academically andathleticallyThe Observer is the only communication that Quinn finished Nagle off with 57 Wednesday, Mar. 16 and Thursday All other Notre Dame and -reaches the majority of Notre Dame students. seconds gone in the last round with Mar. 17. Face-off time for all six Mary's students may purch1 As basketball coach I've come to appreciate the service that The a viscous uppercut that prompted games would be at 7:30p.m. play-off tickets beginning Wedn 
Observer provides. At the beginning of this semester we held a pep rally for the UCLA game. The Observer was not printing at the time, and despite the fact that the rally was annou.nced on all of the local radio stations, the student body didn't know about it. The rally was a failure.  the referee to call it quits. One of the best fights of the night came in the 152 lb. division between John Talbot and Mike  Tickets for each contest are $2 apiece for students and $3 apiece for the public. These are the lowest prices allowed by the WCHA.  day, Mar. 2 from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m the Gate Ten ticket window of ACC. Sale will last until the tic supply is exhausted.  
and definitely hurt our team in preparing for the Bruins. We needed The Observer then, we need it now and we will need it in the future.  Norton. Norton came out flailing with roundabouts but Talbot staved  Students are limited to one ticket apiece for their personal use. A  If Notre Dame docs not host quarterfinals. semifinals and  
So this week while you're preparing to help the  team  against San  him off and came back late in the  student must present his ID at time  finals, tickets for unplayed gar  
Francisco on Saturday and at the rally on Friday, help both the team <Jnd yourselves by signing The Observer petition for a rate increase. For knowing what's going on evcrvrlay of the week for an entire school year, is  round scoring on a couple of left jabs. Norton drew blood with a combination to tht.: head but Talbot  of purchase. A student may present four IDs for four tickets. Students should bring separate  can be refunded by present them or mailing them to the Til' Office of the Athletic and Convc  
$h too much to pay'? Ldon't think so!  would  not  be  put  away  as  he  checks.  one  for each series.  pay­ tion Centt:r.  




