. 
-· 
Vol. XII, No. 52 Friday, November 18, 1977 
The Observer
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st.. mary's 
Students to boycott Nestle's 
by Mike Kenahan that, unlike the Hunger Coalition, 
significantly to increased infant she will be dealing directly with the 
mortality reates in the Third In an effort to "keep the Notre adminstration, although definite World. 
Dame community aware of the plans have not been made yet. Pascuzzo stated that, "the 
issues of justice throughout the The reason for the boycott is babies are really malnourished and 
world," the World HungerCoalition summed up in a. Hunger Coalition they're not getting the kind of 
is encouraging students to boycott fact sheet entitled "Boycott In nourishment they need that they
Nestle Company products. Brief" that is circulating the cam­would get from breast feeding.
According to Jill Pascuzzo, sec­pus. Thecoalition,in the fact sheet, Nestles knows this and they even 
retary of the World Hunger Coali­accuses Nestle of using "unethical have statistics on it.'' ''They seem 
tion, "we're asking students to marketing techniques" in selling to be so unfeeling," she added. 
individually boycott buying Nestle an infant baby formula called Pascuzzo mentioned a survey
products, including not using the "Lactogen" in Third World coun­that was done in the small African 
Nestea machine in the dining hall tries. 
country of Sierra Leone as a prime or things like that." The information flyer states that example of the effects of Lactogen.The Notre Dame student govern­"Lactogen is an acceptable alterna­She pointed out that statistics ment, according to Valerie Hardy, tive to mothers' milk under 'ideal 
showed that out of 717 babies Social Justice and Interracial conditions but these conditions hospitalized for malnutrition, in Affairs Commissioner, is also olan­simply do not exist in the Third that country, 713 of those babies ning to 'get involved in the boycott World. It has been proven that were bottle fed with Nestle form­but at a higher level. Hardy said Nestle's Lactogen has. contributed ula. "Those kinds of figures are 
kind of scarv," Pascuzzo noted. 
According to the magazine Food 
Monitor, "The Nestle company is 
the largest seller of commercial 
by Lou Severino there has been little trouble with milk in the Third World." The 
these problems this year, with the magazine goes on to state that a 
exception of a few isolated inci­nationwide boycott of Nestle pro­
South Bend Police Chief Michael dents. ducts originally began in July, with 
Borkowski warned student of Borkowski also mentioned seve­targeted products being: Taster's 
stricter policy regarding off­ral rape prevention programs spon­Choice; Nescafe; Nestle's Quik; 
campus keg parties which charge sored by the South Bend Police Nestle's Crunch; Nestea; and 
admission for paper cups. Department and urged women to Libby, McNeill and Libby Products. 
"To charge admission in any take advantage of them. · Pascuzzo stated that the whole 
form is illegal," said Borowski in a "I would advise women to walk goal of the student's boycott will be 
recent interview on the WSND with someone if possible, use to pressure Nestle into "a total 
radio show "Close-up." He called well-lighted streets, and lock their overall halt to the promotion of 
such parties "deceiving practices" doors when driving," said Borkow­Lactogen in Third World contries.' 
and said they need licensed bar­ski. "If you are driving and think The secretary of the coaltion 
tenders and permits to become someone is following you, go to a explained that this "halt" would 
legal. service station or the police depart­include the discontinuation of all 
"I would like to caution stude.nts ment and ask for help,'' the chief sales of lactogen and its promotion
that they should cease these par­added. through mass media nad through 
ties. because if they continue there The final topic which the chief the medical profession in Third 
will be police activity," warned discussed was crime prevention for World countries. Pascuzzo added 
Borkowski. "Police activity," off-campus students. He asked that the distribution of free 
according to Borkowski means that students living off-campus to try samples of Lactogen and the use of 
police will make arrests if they and and vary their daily routine and sales girls as "nurses" should also 
the prosecutors office determine avoid leaving their house empty for be discontinued. 
that there were serious violations of long periods of time. 
Police tighten party policy 
Pascuzzo encouraged students tothe law. He added that enforce­"In the past we have been write letters to the Nestle Companyment of this policy· would be accused of not protecting off­stating that they refuse to buydifficult. campus students against theft," Nestle products until Nestle stopsBorkowski did say that "chip-in" noted Borkowski. He said that the promotion of Lactogen in the Thirdparties which collect money to help police would continue to do all they World. She also suggested thatdefray expenses and not for per­could to solve robbery cases and students write to President Cartersonal profit are legal. also asked the students to be on the and their local congressmen.'
The problems of noise and litter lookout for suspicious characters in Pascuzzo said that a list of Nestlein the Corby-Eddy bar district were their neighborhoods. 
products, the company's addressalso discussed in the interview. Borkowski concluded, "If the and any other pertinent informa­Borkowski asked for student students and police work together tion is available to all interestedcooperation and noted that most of we can not only solve this problem, students in the Hunger Coalitionthe residents of that area are but also the others we are faced office in LaFortune Center.
elderly. He acknowledged that with." 
Sadat plans visit to Israel despite Arab opposition 
[AP]-President AnwiP"Sadat of East peace after four wars. 
Egypt will make a precedent shat­First word of Sadat's time table 
tering trip to Israel this weekend came from Israeli Prime Minister 
despite mounting opposition to it Menahem Begin. He said the 
both at home and in much of the Egyptian would arrive Saturday 
Arab world. evening after sundown of the 
Syria, Egypt's military ally in Jewish Sabbath. On Sunday, Sadat three decades of Arab-Israeli wars, is to worship at the AI Aqsa called on all Arab nations to mosque in Arab East Jerusalem, "shoulder their responsibilities in meet privately with Begin and then facing the dangers inherent in an address the Knesset at 4 p.m., 9 Arab leader's trip to Israel.'' a.m. EST. 
Domestic opposition to Sadat's The announcement in Jerusalem 36-hour visit starting tomorrow was surrounded by these develop­night was dramatized by the resig­ments: nation in quick succession yester­-Sadat concluded a two-day trip to day of two Egyptian foreign minis­Damascus where he tried unsuc­ters. cessfully to win support for the trip 
Opponents in the Arab world from President Hafez Assad. After include Syria, Kuwait, the radical seven hours oftalks, Assad said his regimes in Libya and Iraq, Pales­failure to dissuade Sadat was tinians living under Israeli occupa­"really painful." tion in the West Bank of the Jordan -Soon after the talks ended, Syria River. issued its statement opposing the 
They fear the visit will shatter trip and calling for Arab solidarity. Arab solidarity and open the way -Two bombs exploded outside the for a separate treaty between Israel Egyptian Embassy in Damascus. and Egypt. There was no immediate report of 
Sadat has pledged not to negoti­casualties, and the Syrian govern­ate a separate peace, and in·. his ment quickly condemned the address Sunday to the Knesset, the bombings. Israeli parliament, he is expected -President Carter endorsed the to list the standard Arab demands visit, saying it "has good poten­for a Palestinian homeland and tial." Carter told reporters in Israeli withdrawal from lands occu­Washington that Assad's opposi­pied in 1967-demands Israel re­tion was predictable. Carter also jects. noted there was "always a danger" 
If the visit comes about, Sadat Sadat's mission might backfire. will be the first Arab leader ever to -A White House spokesman said visit the Jewish State, a break­Begin telephoned Carter to discuss through that could open a new chapter in the seach for a Middle [continued on page 7]. 
a statue blessed by the pope and designated to carry the message of Fatima throughout the world, was on display last night in the Sacred Heart Church. [Photo by Doug Christian]. 
' 


the observer Friday, November 18, 1977 
-
-

On Campus Today __ 
friday, november 18, 1977 
4 pm 4:30pm 
7 pm 8 pm 
8 pm 
8:15pm 
9-11 pm 9-1 pm 
12:15 ­2 am happy hour, knights of columbus happy hour, k of c hall, open to the public. 

colloquium, "splittings of integral quadratic forms," prof. carl riem, mcmaster univ., spons. by math dept., rm. 226 ccmb. 
latin american week-cultures, music, dance, poetry reading, etc., Iafortune std. ctr. 
drama, "fantastics," student players, spon. by social comm., washington hall. 
lions club travelogue, "motoring through ger­many," bill kennedy, spon. by south bend lions club, o'laughlin aud. tickets at door. $2. 
basketball, nd vs. russian national basketball team, ace arena. 
nazz, doug stringer, acoustic guitar and soft rock, basement of Iafortune. 
wine and cheese party, spon. by std. union, first unitarian church. 
nocturne nightflight, progressive rock, jazz and blues, wsnd-fm, 88.9. 
saturday, november 19, 1977 
1:30pm 7 pm 
7:30pm 
8 pm 
8 pm 
6:15pm 9-11 pm 
12:15­2 am football, nd vs. air force, nd stadium 

art auction, service guild of south bend annual art auction, lobby of o'laughlin aud. 
meeting, logistics for winterfest trip, spon. by the society for creative anachronism, basement of Iafortune. 
drama, "fantastics," student players, washington hall. 
concert, daryl hall and john oates, ace., tickets $7 & $6. 
student recital, julia smiley-violin, spon. by music dept., crowley recital hall, open to public. 
nazz, terry donahue, bill adams, kate smelser, lisa colaluca, pat marks and michelle quinn, basement of Iafortune 
nocturne nightflight, "the montreaux '77 jazz festival recordings," with host frank Iaurino. 
sunday, november 20, 1977 

10 am bicycle ride, leaving from lib. circle, spons. by nd bike club. 
2 pm mass, fr. pomerleau will celebrate monthly mass for friends of the retarded and I'arche, bulla shed. 
4 pm concert rehearsal, open dress rehearsal for univ. of nd chorus and orchestra concert, sacred heart church. 
6 pm radio wsnd fm, "closeup" public affairs program with julia meek and judy howells, peace corps and vista recruiters. 
7& 9 pm film, "modern times," spons. by std. union. engr. aud., free. 
7:30 & 

10 pm film, "the cincinatti kid," spon. by smc junior class, carroll hall-mad. bldg., smc, $1. 
8:15pm concert, univ. of nd chorus and orchestra performing haydn mass with guest soloists, sacred heart church. 
Weather I'm right or weather I'm wrong' 
Weather today will be partly cloudy and variable with·, temperatures moderate and cooler towards late afternoon. After ' light during the daytime, darkness will follow. For the football , game, wear mittens, scarves and raincoats--galoshes are optional--, the weather will be crummy as usual. Intermittent sun, sleet, fog, snow, rain and hail. Possible hurricane. Sunday can only be better. · 

Daydeaming healthy, says D~bin 

PHILADELPIDA [AP] 
Daydreaming is good for 'the health 
and people can slip into any 
situation that is pleasant for them 
without using hypnotism or tran­
scendental meditation, says a re­
searcher who studied how to relax. 
"All work, not one b•eter than 

another," says Dr. Louis Dubin, a 
dentist who teaches a course on 
hypnotism at the Temple Universi­
ty School of Dentistry. He was part 
of a four man relaxation study team 
for 18 months. 
Dubin likened relaxing more to a 

flight of fancy, a mind visiting trip 
to somewhere else -or doing 
something you like which always 
makes a person feel better. 
"It used to be if you closed your eyes, sat back in a comfortable chair, maybe listened tCI some music, that this environment of doing nothing was regarded as relaxing," Dubin said in an inter­
'Paukenmes;se' to be perforrned 
The Notre Dame Concert Series will present Haydn's "Pauken­messe," also known as the: "Mass in the Time of War," at 8:15 p.m this Sunday in Sacred Heart Church. Tht~ concert mass will be performed by the Notre Dame Orchestra, conducted by Adrian Bryttan, the University Chorus as prepared by director Walter Ginter, and guest soloists. 
An open dress rehearsal of the Mass will be held Sunday at 4 p.m. in Sacred Heart. The reht:arsal is suggested for children. Both dress rehearsal and concert are open to the public without charge. 
The solo quartet is comprised of noted Chicago performer!; Anne Perillo, soprano; Ann P'orayko, alto; Marc Allan, tenor; atitdl Ken­neth Bobis, bass. Miss Perillo gave a joint recital for the Notre Dame Concert Series in 1976 with her husband, Leo Michuda, violin. A Juilliard trained musician, Miss Perillo has appeared on the WTTW series "Artists Showcase." She teaches at De Paul Universi.ty. 
Haydn's "Paukenmesse" was written in 1796, at a time when the 27-year-old Napoleon Bonaparte was threatening Vienna from the south. The "Mass" is the first of six writt~n for Haydn's life-long patrons the Eszterhazy family. The masses. , settings of the Catholic Ordinary, were written when Haydn was at the peak of his creative powers. They relf·ect the mastery of his symphonic writing also evident in the London sym­phonies. Haydn's choral wr:iting in the masses shows the influc:nce of Handel, . whos oratorio the 
"Messiah" Haydn had heard in ll!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!fl 
1791. 
Haydn's masses, like those of Mozart, have been criticized for their lack of gravity and for their alleged sentimentality and flip-· pancy. Haydn's response, accord­ing to the historian Grout, was that when he thought of God hi~: heart "leaped with joy," and that he did not believe that God wolilld be displeased with praise given ''with a joyful heart.'' 

Last day for 'Fellow' votE~s 

Today is the last day to vote for the Senior Class Fellow. Polls will be open during lunch and dinner in both the North and South Dining Halls. No votes will be acl·epted after 6 p.m. 
The Observer Is published M·~n­

day through Friday except du,lng 
exam and vaQflon periods. Tl)e 
Observer 11 publlllled by 111te 
students of Notre Dame 1111d Saint 
Mary's College. Subsaiptk1n1 
may be purdlued for 120 ..-r yoar 
C$10 per samasterl from The 
Oburver, P.O. Box Q, No·tre 
Dame, lndllllla 46556. Second 
Class post..• paid, Notre Dan11·, 
lndlal!la, 4US6. 
. The Observer 11 a member of 
the Associated Pnu. All rwpi'O­
ductlon rtehts a.-. rwnrved. 
view. 
We now recognize that it is sometimes a mistake, that relaxa­tion is unique to the individual, that it means different things to dif­ferent people. Some people are geared to move rapidly. They have to be doing something. Their best way of relaxing is doing what pleases them most -playing tennis or scuba diving, skiing or driving a racing car. 
"Relaxation is a pleasant emo­tional state which subsequently results in a pleasant physical state," he said. 
"Suppose you enjoyed the sea shore," Dubin suggested. "You conjure a mental picture of a beautiful balmy day, the sun shining, the water rolling up the beach, the seagulls flying by. 
"With no other thoughts you let yourself go into whatever is pleas­ant for you. You leave your body where it is and transport your mind to another location and experience. 
"If you stop being on guard as you do in the course of your business, your professional. or your social life, and Jet go physically and emotionally, all the tension. all the apprehension, all the facade you create for the people around you, you are completely free of all responsibility. 
"The muscles relax. the mind relaxes, the physical well being of the person is almost divorced from his body and he will relate to what pleases him the best." 
Dr. Donald Morse, an associate professor of endontology at Tem­ple's Dental School, headed the team that measured the physiologi­cal body responses of 37 men and 11 women. 
The real shocker was that the instruction to relax did achieve deep relaxation," Mol'§e said. 
*The Observer 
Night Editor: Bob Brink Asst. Night Editor: Frank Kebe Layout Staff: Marti Hogan. Kathy Mills, Katie Kerwin Editorial Layout: Rich LaBell~· Features Layout: Dave 0' Keefe, Maureen Sajbel Sports Layout: Paul Stevensor' Typists: Karen Chiames Mark Rust, Mardi Nevin. Ton Powanda E.M.T.: Rich Clarizio, KarPr Chiames Day Editor: • ~ike Lewi~ Copy Reader: Boh VarrPtnnr Chris Dattman, l om ( ul Reporter" O'Neill Ad Layout: Greg Trzupek Photographer: Doug Christiar~ 

OPEN: MON-THURS 9AM-11PM FRI-SAT 9AM-12PM SUN 12NOON-12PM 
PKG. LIQUOR, WINES, BEER & SNACKS BEER SPECIAL EACH WEEK-END 
BLOCK NORTH OF STAl ~ LINE ON U.S. 31 
P-------------------------~



Speech and Drama 1 Department I 
I
is still seeking 
I 
I
ORAL INTERPRETERS I I ORATORS I IEXTEMPORANEOUS SPEAKERS I I
for Intercollegiate Competition 
I 
II 
Meeting: Monday, November21, 7:30p.m. Rm. 20, LaFortune Student Center 1 (If you can't make meetina call 284-4141 ) 1


L -------------------------· 

ND-SMC Junior Class Formal 

Saturday, Dec. 3, 1977 9pm to _lam 
Music by ~Unity' 

The Great ·Hall of Century Center, South Bend 


Tickets '7 On sale at dinner Nov. 16-30 ·North, south and SMC Dining HaHs 




.------­




'Awareness Week' emphasizes· Latino culture 
~-­
Friday, November 18, 19n 
the observer 
by Jerry Perez 

"What impressed me most this week was an awareness of how many ways each of us can affect United States-Latin American relations," claimed Peggy Osher­ger, co-chairman for Latin Ameri­can Awareness Week. 
A series of movies, lectures, seminars and musical performan­ces reflecting the current political and cultural status of Latin Ameri­can countries make up the week's program. which concludes today. 
According to Osberger, the pro­jects originators envisioned the week as a means to foster in the Notre Dame and IUSB communities "an awareness of Latin America's political struggles and the role the United States plays in that strug­gle." 
The Latin American Information Service (LAIS), in conjunction with the Justice and Peace Center of South Bend, is sponsoring the six-day series of events. Osberger also acknowledged funds donated by CILA and the Hunger Coalition. 
Besides the political dimension of Latin American Awareness Week, Chilean "arpilleras," see­narios of South American life made from strips of cloth, were on display in the O'Shaughnessy Art Gallery. These will be up for sale today. 
On Wednesday 35 people met in the Old Fieldhouse and combined efforts to creat a mural depicting Latin American life. The mural will be on display tonight at the "Pena Folklorica Coffeehouse," a fiesta complete with dancing, poetry readings, and refreshments, that 
~-------------------------,
STUDENT UNION SOCIAL COMMISSION INVITES YOU TO 
Do a numlter with 
CHEECH & CHONG 
With special guests "The Klee Bros." 
SATURDAY DECEMBER3rd, 8 pm STEPAN CENTER Tickets $3.75 at Ticket Office 
L-------~~~~-~~~~~L-------~ 
i~ OAK DAIRY -~PARTY STORE 
Keg Party Special Free Cups and Ice check our package liquor department 
open 9 to midnight Mon -Sat open 12 -12 Sun 
Package Liquor to go! 
Stateline Road in Niles 684-4950 
. ' 

My Way one block East of US 31 
will begin at 7 p.m. tonight in the LaFortune ballroom. 
To conclude this week's activi­ties, Albert LeMay, professor of modern and classical languages, will speak about Latin American literary movements at noon today in LaFortune's Caron Court. In addition, a prayer service for Latin America will be held in Keenan Chapel tonight at 6 p.m. 
Justifying the program's atten­tion to the finer aspects of Latin American culture, Osberger com­mented, "Too often we make the mistake of thinking that the United States is necessarily the brightest and the best of everything." She argued the unfairness of the United States to impose its ways of life and culture upon less fortunate coun­tries. 
A documentary examining hun­ger in Third World countries kicked offtheweek'sevents last Sunday. A lecture by Tom Quigley, advisor on Latin America to the US Catholic Conference, highlighted Monday's activities. Quigley outlined the ''back-to-the-people'' movement of the Church in Agentina, El Salva­dor and Chile. A standing-room­only audience crowded into the library auditorium Tuesday to see Costa Gavras' film "State of Siege," an account of a political kidnaping in Chile. 
Speaking on Wednesday before a small group in the library auditor­ium, Marl Squella, an exiled Chile­an sociologist, lamented the inter­vention of foreign imperialism in underdeveloped countries. The young activist pointed out the American business interests main­tain higher profit margins in im­poverished countries than else­where. Futhermore, she added, American businesses are enabling the dictatorial regime in Chile to remain in power. 
Brown paper lunch bags, infor­mal seating and interesting rhetor­ic characterized a series of lunch­time seminars held in LaFortune Caron Court. Small groups of 25-30 people considered issues ranging from the authority of law in Latin America to the controversy sur­rounding the Panama Canal treaty. 
A recurring theme throughout the week's many lectures and comments, Osberger reported, was the United States' responsibility to support only governments which do not have continuing patterns of injustice. Acknowledging that the United States offers aid to many of the countries in Latin America, she asked, "How can we justify the support of_repressive regimes?" 
The main goal of the week, Osberger said, was to instill in each individual attending an awareness of his or her personal responsibility for human rights. "And I_'m not just talking about rights in Latin America. Consider South Africa. Even consider the United States,'' she added. 

Divorced remarrieds welcomed 
NEW YORK[AP]The lifting of the penalty of ex-communication for Roman Catholic's remarried after divorce openly welcomes them back into participation in the church -but not into sharing Holy Communion. 
For that, they'd have to take a further step to regularize their status. The new action was intended to encourage them to do it. 
It now, "is up to them to take the next step by approaching parish priests and diocesan tribunals to see whether the return to full Eucharistic communion is possi­ble," says Bishop Cletus F. O'Don­ell of Madison Wisconsin, a key figure in securing the change. 
The excommunication decree's removal was voted at his urging last spring by the U.S. Bishop's and approved by Pope Paul the VI last week does, however invite divorcedremarried catholics to par­ticipate in church life .. 
"It offers them a share in all the public prayers of the church com­munity," says O'Donell. "It restores their right to take part in church services. It removes certain canonical restrictions on their par­ticipation." 
Many in practice have been taking part with their pastors' approval, while not receiving Communion, despite the 1884 Baltimore Coun­cil's ex-communication decree, but its revocation gives explicit, official sanction to the growing practice. 
But it' doesn ;t, in itself, remove the barrier to sharing Communion. Nor does it alter the church's insistence on the permanent indis­solubility of valid marriages. 
However, for the nation's esti­mated three million remarried Ca­tholics -half of the six million who have divorced -various moderating moves have taken place to smooth the way back into a full communing participation. 
Basically, this requires a conclu-· sion that the previous marriage was ' not a real one. This is possible in varying ways under church prind­ples. 
But formerly, such a decision must come from a diocesan mar­riage tribunals. Their procedures have been simplified and speeded up to facilitate the process , al­though it still is clogged in hand­ling the volume . 
Broader grounds for annulments also now range from psychological or emotional immaturity at the time of the first marriage to evidence of merit in the second. 
While the number of annulments has swelled 30 fold in the last eight years, it still falls far short of the number of Catholic divorces. Also, policies of the tribunals vary sharp­ly from diocese to diocese. 
Other than tribunal decisions of annulments, another way divorced, remarried Catholics can return to Communion is through ''internal forum" decisions in their own, informed consciences. 


A SPECIAL THANKSGIVING MASS FOR THE UNIVERSITY WILL BE CELEBRATED BY REV. THEODORE M. HESBURGH, C.S.C. 
5:00p.m.--Monday, November 21 Sacred Heart Church 
This private alternative is occur­ing increasingly, through pastoral counseling, when evidence is una­vailable for a formal tribunal annulment, but when the conclu-~ sion is reached in "good faith" that grounds exist for it anyway. 
Such a decision, however, does not recognize the validity of the second marriage in the eyes of the church community. 

Polish experience ·in America 
Today through Dec. 11 the Notre Dame Art Gallery will present an exhibition of potographs entitled "The Polish Experience in Ameri­ca." This collection of thirty photographs has been assembled by the Kusciusko Foundation, an organization dedicated to the edu­cation and advancement of the Polish American Community. 
Included in this collection are 
depictions of immagrants arriving 
at Ellis Island in the early 1900's, 
workers in industrial centers, typi­
cal scenes of Polish culture and life, 
and the political involvement of 
Polish Americans throughout the 
century. This exhibition has been 
sponsored by the Multi-Cultural 
Education Project Institute for Ur­
ban Studies at Notre Dame, repre­
sented by John Kromowski, assis­
tant professor of government and· 
international studies. 
Also on exhibit at the Art 
Gallery are: Grapics by Milton Avery, a traveling exhibition from Associated American Artists; and :Landscape into Art, Dutch and Flemish Baroque Paintings, and Pre-Columbian Art, all from the permanent collection. The Art Gallery is open free to the public, 10 a.m. -4:45 p.m. on weekdays, 1-5 p.m. on weekends, and 7-9 


the observer
4 



RSB:-small but active group 
[NOCR]-A small, but active force is emerging on the nation's college campuses in the form of an organization called the Revolution­arv Student Brilzade (RSB). 
Inevitably, some comparisons are made between the RSB and the infamous Students for a Democrat­ic Society (SDS) of a past era. Indeed, many of the RSB organiz­ers are former SDS people and the groups embrace similiar causes. The RSB, however, is admittedly a communist organization; the SDS was not. 
The RSB was formed in 1974 on two New York campuses and today has grown to a nationwide organi­zation claiming SO chapters. 
According to a RSB spokeswo­men. the group plans to soon merge with a smaller communist organization, Youth in Action, cre­ating a single student arm of the Revolutionary Communist Party of the U.S. A. A national office in . Ch1cago organizes national cam­paigns and produces a newspaper called Fight Back . Local chapters develop local issues and elect officers to participate in national meetings. 
The RSB claims a broad spect­rum of concerns. "Anything that affects students," according to an RSB spokeswomen, ''from elec­
tions  and  teacher  firings  to  cut­ 
backs  and  South  African  invest­ 
ments."  

Recently, the RSB has been particularly active in the steady escalating Kent State gymnasium controversy. RSB chapters around the country organized many dele­gations of sympathizers who travel­ed to Kent to protest. RSB also sponsored a national campus 
Smiley to present violin recital 
Julie Smiley, a graduate music major at Notre Dame will present a violin recital tomorrow at 8:15 p.m. in Crowley Recital Hall. Smiley, who received a Bachelor of Music from the University of Arkanasas in 1976, will perform music of Wieni­awski, Mozart, and Tartini. She will be accompanied by John Humphrey, also a graduate music major at Notre Dame. 
Senior trippers: pick up your WA rebates 
Notre Dame senior trippers who were on the World Airways plane out of South Bend can pick up their rebates at the Student Activities ')ffice in LaFortune from 8-5 Mon­day through Fridav. 
speaking tour by RSB member AI Canfora, who was wounded in the shooting at Kent State in 1970. 
Canfora says the Kent State experience changed him from a socialist to a marxist-teninist and taught him that ''the rich people are our enemy." Canfora's cam­pus talks typically drew only a few dozen listeners, but he is not discouraged. Mysticism and reli­gion have kept the "movement" dormant for a few years but the Kent State controversy represents the ''beginning of a revolution,'' he believes. 
RSB activities are spawnin~ pre­dictable controversy. At the U of Connecticut a petition was started in opposition to a student govern­ment grant of $350 to the local chapter for a bus to Kent State. At the U of Wisconsin -Madison, the Student Body President vetoed a similar grant to the RSB chapter. 
"Revolution is no tea party,"· says one RSB member, ''but we don't believe in 'revolution 'for the hell of it either." The organization can play within the rules -generally RSB chapters becorne officially recognized student organizations 
and there is even talk of running a presidential candidate some day. 
But RSB also demonstrates a belief in the old SDS tenet that "the end justifies the means." The 
U. of Illinois RSB <:hapter was placed on probation for distributing a leaflet that resembled an official university leterhead. And the Kent Sate U. chapted faced losing its · charter (which would have made it the first student organization to do so for discinplinary reasons since 1969 when the SDS was deregister­ed there), but instead was given only an "official wa.rning" for reserving a campus me:e:ting room, then turning it over tc. the non-regi­stered Mav 4th Coalition. 
Uncertainty about the fate of the 
Kent Sate Chapter was one of the reasons the site of the upcoming RSB national convention remains undecided at the eleventh hour. The dates have been set for November 19 and 20 and the site is expected to be either Kent or some other Ohio location. 



'L'Arche' helps retarded· 
by Peggy McGulre experiencing their diserimina:tion 
Staff Reporter and mistreatment. Although the 
group is Catholic-orientated, it is 

The Friends of the Mentally nondenominational. 
Retarded and of L' Arche, an organ­'L 'Arche', French for 'arc', 
ization committed to improving symbolizes that the group is open 
living conditions for the mentally to anyone who wants to work for 
handicapped, will hold their improved living conditions for the 
monthly Mass Sunday at Bulla mentally retarded. The group has 
Shed. spread all over the world. 
Fr. Claude Pomerleau, a govern­"L'Arche has a totally different ment professor, will officiate the approach toward mental retarda­celebration scheduled for 2 p.m. tion," Pomerleau added. "They 
"The mass itself will be a bit believe that there is a human 
different," Pomerleau stated. "It committment to help the mentally 
wil be more informal than most retarded adjust to a world in which 
masses. For instance, we plan to they are at a terrib:le disad­
read a story rather that the usual vantage." homily." A small group of interested 
According to Vittoria Bosco, South Bend citizens orgaiJtized the president of the South Bend Chap­L 'Arche group two years ago. ter of L' Arche, the masses are held Bosco said their present goal is to every third Sunday at the Bulla open a home for the mentally Shed. The celebrant varies from retarded. week to week, and group meetings "We purcl">ased a hom~: on Allen are held before the Mass. Street,but it hasn't opened yet," 
"The Mass is open to every­the president stated. "Presently, 
one," Bosco stated. "We'll have a we are trying to strueture its small reception afterwards with organization and find ways to fund coffee and doughnuts so that those its operation." interested in joining will have an opportunity to visit with members. "At that time," he added, "books Wine &cheese tix and pamphlets explaining the purpose of L' Arche will be avail­available todayable." 
Tickets for tonight's wine andJean Vanier, a Canadian theo­cheese party will be available at thelogian, founded L'Arche in 1966 door of the First Unitarian Church,after having lived with two mental­located two blocks south of Angela ly retarded adults in France and Ave. on l,JS 31. Admission, $1. 

v..SAVE,.....,..~AVE.v.-.SAVEI'NSAVE...._.SAVE"-"' 
® 
FOREIGN 
CAR PARTS CO.
REGIOULDISIRIBUTOR 
before the snow flies give your car its tune-up now !! make sure it starts this winter! 
Parts and Accessories for ALL Makes of Foreign Cars 
215 Dixie Way N. 
in Roseland-U.S. 31 N. -lhblock N. from Pendle St. 
SOUTH BEND, IND. 46637 

CALL: 219 272-7187 
OPEN I:S:a.m.-6:00 p.m. MONDAY THRU SATURDAY 




$$ ~$ SPARK PLUGS ONLY 96, EACH WITH THIS AD (reg $1.25) ­


tonight 9-11 DOUG STRINGER 
saturday 9-11 Kate Smelser Lisa Colaluca Terry Donahue Bill Adams 
Michelle Quinn 
Pat Marks 
Iafortune basement no admission charge 



~ Cellar Inc. 
fri & ~ 9am-lhm 2934 E. McKirrey 

rOOre 233-9466 

Beer SP:ria]s 




SPECIAL 

HOLIDAY RATES 
FOR 


NO I ST. MARY'S STUDENTS & FACULTY 
Rent a full-size car for your holiday travels from South Bend and back. Return the car to South Bend for less than half-price! • $SO per week .•• 16 cents per mile • You pay for gas. . Round up your friends to make a full car and enjoy the holidays at low mst! . Call or stop by to get full details and reserve your late-model, full-size Hertz car. 

232-5871 
Hertz Rent-A-Car 710 N. Niles Ave. South Bend 
Koehler 6 pack 99~ Miller case/cans $6.88 
(save 84~)  
Billy Beer  6 pack  $1.92  
Falstaff  case  $4.99  
Busch  qts.  $6.00  



Notre Dame football B_qd basketball schedule mugs available 99~ 
We accept Master Charge & Visa 
. . 
,-------------~·
TGIF ~r-a.aue 
l. Beer 
~~~ 
Restaurant and LDunge  \S'  
Featuring  the  finest  

in hickory smoked • barbeque-cnoked over an open pit with-speO.I 
SiiU<:e 
.75 or $1.00 Pitcher's of Beer with Dinner HAPPY HOUR DAILY 
4-7 p.m. Pitchers $1.25-$1.50 Beer .35 
4-l a.m. daily 
1132 s. Bend 
Ave. 
dosed Sun. 
1
Phone 
and Mon.
289-0639 




Friday, November 18, 1977 
the observer 5 




AFROTC 'dines in' 
by Marlbeth Moran protocol and tradition were observ­Staff Reporter ed to a varying degree. One of the less serious customs is the institu­
One of the longstanding tradi­tion of "Mr. Vice," usually one of tions of the AFROTC Unit 225 of the junior members of a detachment Notre Dame is the annual "dining who acts as toastmaster throughout in" ofthe corps. This year, the 225 the dinner. The toastmaster, held the dining-in last night in the Kevin Jordan a freshman from Monogram Room of the ACC. A Stanford Hall, a1Jowed not only to dining-in is a formal dinner held propose toasts but also to jibe at his within a squadron or other airforce superiors in military rank. unit that promotes unity and fel­
Many toasts were drunk
lowship among the personnel in throughout the evening from thethat particular un~t-. 
President down to individual flights Started as a/ tradition in the . within the unit. Cadet Glen Frick 
airforce by General "Hap" Arnold from Goshen, Ind. addressed the 
during World War II, who's dining­audience on the history and cus­ins were known as "wing-ding toms of the Air Force Academy in 
affairs", the concept of the ban­Colorado Springs, Co. Frick stated 
quet dates back much farther than that one of the reasons that he that. According to Colonel Noram wished to address the AFROTC 
E. Mueller, professor of aero-space cadets is that "we're going to be studies, Arnold borrowed the cus­comrades in the Air Force and we tom from the British army. There it should get to know each other played an important part in military better." His presentation to the protocol on both their foreign and assembly included a slide show and 


AFROTC: hopes and aspirations 
home posts during the Victorian an explanation of the academic, 

era and as far back as the Middle military, athletic, and social as­by Mark Rust government spends over a mtllion vtdes a way of easing into this Ages. Today the dining-in plays a pects of life at the academy. Frick 
special part in promoting camarad­

Most students' visible image of dollars each year on flight training. reality. "The first two years are also confronted the controversial 
erie and identity to each particular 

the Reserve Officers Training The youngest and the strongest· pretty easy. All you do is an hour issue of the honor code at the 
unit in the airforce.

Corps (ROTC) program on campus constantly replace the older in the Academy; "as a cadet I will not lie, 
of drills and an hour of class 
is a group of clean-shaven short ranks," he added. As the Air Force-Notre. Dame steal, or cheat nor tolerate anyone
weekly,'' said Medico. For pilots
haired classmates who appear uni­Doeseveryonein Air Force ROTC there are requirements: good football game coincided with the who does." He added that he formed periodically for the class plan to be a pilot? "All the cool physical shape, 20-20 vision, and 225's banquet, organizers, cadets believed strongly in it. day. Most of their regimen, rules guys," joked a cocktail toting John an "Areobics condition" that con­Mark Cassidy, Joe Salata and Tim was the
On a less serious note 

and program goes unpublicized Hamerly. John, naturally, is also a sists of running a mile and a half Cuklina asked two cadets from the presentation third classmen
of

and unnoticed, and misconceptions pilot candidate. under twelve minutes. Air Force Academy, Glen Frick and Cadet falconer Mike Gruzmac and may sometime exist about their A more serious answer to the Retention is sometimes a prob­Mike Gruzmac, and one of the his prairie falcon, Radar. Gruzmac 
purpose. question reveals that only 20 recruitment officers, Captain Gary 
lem in the ROTC; a few years ago explained th~ age-old techniques of 
But at the annual Air Force percent of the cadets are air-trans­half of the junior class dropped out. Wilson to be the guestspeakers falconary and recounted a short ROTC "dining-in" formal last port bound. The other 80 percent According to Mandico, this is not for the event. Major George Fina, history of the art. Falconarynight, candidates had an opportu­are training for the ground posts. due to a fault in the system. "Most commander of cadets at ND said originated in the Middle East and nity to clear up some of these Some candidates look at their eight of the time a guy will drop out this interaction between the Aca­was brought to Europe by the misconceptions while enjoying year hitch as fulfilling a duty to because of something he didn't like demy cadets and AFROTC cadets Crusaders during the Middle Ages. 
cocktails and chicken-kiev. Pilot their country. Others see it as a -didn't understand. Now we have is beneficial to them both as one candidate Johnny Mandico, com­pragmatic step towaTd future posi­a staff that communicates regularly day they will be serving together in The Air Force Academy has its mented that there is still a need for tions and a big help with the cost of with the younger cadets. We've the same Air Force. own Falconary Club with each 
cadet spending between

military pilots even during peace­schooling. found that that clears up a lot of one and 
Squadron Commander Mary Jor­

time. "Pilots are used for the Kevin Cochoran is a psychology problems.'' two hours a day with their particular 
dan presided over the dinner and falcon. The Academy also has oneairlifting of people and material -major who plans to get into the Mandico is one of those with introduced special guests at the of the few captive breeding projects its the quickest air-transport Special Investigation Unit during staff responsibilities and, although head table, including Fr. Ferdi­

around. I would much rather be his four years of duty. The. S.I.U. they are very time consuming, he in the entire world. 
nand L. Brown, acting provost; Fr.

doing that than be in a dog-fight." deals with investigations inside the finds them very rewarding. "I Edmund P. Joyce, executive vice­The closing remark by Squadrom "I would like to become a corps. After Cocoran's require­interview freshmen and sopho­president; Emil T. Hoffman, dean Commander Mary Jordanwas a comcommercial airlines pilot when my ment is fulfilled, he would like to mores," he said, "and we talk of the Freshman Year of Studies; mendation of the comraderie and duty is up," Mandico continued. work for the FBI. "This will' give about their problems if they have Richard J. Thompson; assistant spirit present at the dining-in of"Anyone with experience from the me great experience," he said. any. It's great because they are dean of the College of Arts and AFROTC Unit 225. ToastmasterAir Force has a tremendous The non-pilots are mostly com­really open with me and I try to be Letters; and the commanders ofthe Kevin Jordan agreed with thisadvantage over others from a posed of engineering and liberal art as honest with them as I can. It other ROTC detachments of the assesment when he proposed atraining school. Its the best flight students. After their four years really gives you a good feeling to 
armed forces. final toast to "the best AFROTCtraining in the world." here they will spend two years of help.". 

Throughout the evening, military unit in the Air Force, the 225." 

Pilot candidates participate in active duty in their specialized field the reciprocal ''one year of service and two years in another area of per one year of schooling" scholar interest. All of this has the effect of 
The revolutionary new

ship program for commisssioned broadening the officer for his own officers. After their four years at well-being, giving him background Notre Dame, the candidate spends in another department so that he 
RANDOM HOUSE 

one more year at Flight Training in can more fully realize potential in one of five camps located in Texas, his own, stated Mandico. 

ENCYCLOPEDIA.

Mississippi, Georgia, Colorado, or For those who, as children, had Arizona. dreams of soaring above the clouds According to Mandico, five years in command of machinery and 
o The first one-volume encyclopedia planned for the entire 

of piloting is assured. ''The space, the Air Force ROTC pro-
family In today'S visually oriented world. 

.._.._..._.__!~-------------·-------------------) 
0 The first encyclopedia In which pictures are used as a basic

i . ' ~ 
means of conveying Information and knowledge-more clearly than ever before.

~ Are you ready for the ~ ~ i 
0 More than 13;800 plctures-11,3251n full color!-wlth ~ CHRISTMAS BAZAAR?~ more than 3,000,000 words of text. 
~ at SMC Dec 5, 6, & 7 1 0 25,000 alphabetical entries provide quick access to factual Information. 
~ For information call-~ 
~ Christy -4407 (SMC) ~ 
technological subjects easier to grasp and man'S rich

~~......~..,..~~...................................................~..,.......~....................... 
historical and cultural heritage Irresistible to explore. 
0 2,856 pages. Price $69.95 




_-FRANK'S PLACE 
~,_,,.. Restaurant_& ~o~nge 


327 W. Marion St. South Bend , Ind. 
Phone 232-2277 visit our package liquor store·-­
Open dally 11 am to 12 pm Frl and Sat. until 1 am 


8 the obarver Friday, November 18, 19n 
~ ~ ~...................... .......,..,. _...................................................................................,................~...............................~..............,.................................~.......~.................~...................................... ............ ............~.-, 
~ -PLACEMENT BUREAU WEEK THE ~
THIS AT ~ CAREER DEVELOPMENT CENTER i 
~ Main Bulldln& ~ 
~ INTERVIEWS SCHEDULED FOR WEEK OF NOVEMBER 2 9 
~-IntervieWII are for seniors and graduate students. Sign-up ) schedule• are in Room 213, Main Building. Interview times [ must be oigned for in person. The sign-up period at the J Placement Bureau will be from 8:00a.m. to 5:00p.m., Monday ~ through Friday. 
\ Nov. 29 Allied Chemical Corp. f :ru;;:---Bin EE. BH in Chi! and ME. 
] central Intelligence Agency ~ BH in 1!1!, Comp Sci, Hath. BHD in !con. C R. R. Donnelley & Sons Co. 1 B in l!con, Hath, all BBA for Price l!stlmetors; B in C Lib. Arts and Bus. Ad. for Printing Sales Trainees. 
~ Honeywell Information Systems 
) Cancelled. [ . Newport Newa Shipbuilding1 Bin Acct, HE, HEIO, EE, cE and comp Sci. 
C University of Virginia. Grad School of Business
1 
B in all dhciplines. l 

[ Nov. 29 30 Permacel Division, Johnson & Johnson ) Tues ed. B in AL and SA. 
r 

~ Nov. 30 First National Bank of Louisville J ~ cancelled. 
[ Otis Elevator Company ] B in HE and EE or other technically oriented graduates. ~ Republic Steel Corporation B in Acct. B in EE, HE, HEIO, Met. ~ Sperry Univac 
C B in Hkt and Comp Sci. l Weatvaco Corporation I BH in ChE and HE. 
l 

~ Dec. 1 American Motors Corporation { Thurs. B in Mitt. MBA with Mitt or Fin bkgrd or conctrn. l Electronic Data Systems Corporation 
~ BH in Hath, Comp sct, Mgt. Info. Systems' HEIO. ', BBA and MBA. \ Kroger Company 
\. B ln Mitt and Mgt. Moore Business Fo~, Inc. ~ B ln Mitt, Mgt. [ Owens-Coming Fiberglas Corporation l HS, PhD in HE, ChE; Polymer, Organic or Analytical l ~m. 
J Surface Division Midland-Rosa Corporation ~ BH in Chi!, HE or Met, 
I Dec. 2 Clark Equipment Company ] ~ Cancelled. l Corning Glass Works J MBA. (ChangedfromFeb.21) 
I Goldmen, Sachs & Co.
l 

~ ~~ral Tire & Rubber Company { B in Acct. MBA. B in Chi!, HE, HEIO, Chem. l National Bank of Detroit ~ B in Lib. Arts, Bus. Ad and HEIO for Branch Mgt. { B in Fin and Acct who have interest in Grad. l School for Commercial Loan Office Training Prog. . 
) Law School: Northwestern School of Law Dec. 1. 
~................,..~................,.,..~...,.. ..............._........._..,....,...............,......_...................;,..J 
open Fri. & Sat. till 








Midnight 
Pabst 
case 

Busch 
case 


Strohs 


case 


Falstaff s269 
12 pack (bottles) 


Blatz S269 
vo c I(d' 
LIQUOR 

~OR\..Q 
Old Chicago 
$149 6 packs 
s333
Mateus
12 pack 
5th 


Old Style1!:;~~ks2sg 
Strohs 16oz case 
$687 
Miscellaneous Cases of Beer 






sass 

Hamms 12 pack 

Rum$498 
qt 


ScotchS539 
qt 


VodkaS399 
qt 


Gin s4a 
qt. 

2128 South Bend Ave. 
SAINT 

11/21/77 -11/23/77 
INTERVIEW SIGN UPS: 
Name 
Republic Steel 
Clark Equipment 
National Bank of Detroit 
~ MARY ' S COLLEGE ~ 
2 8 4-4 4 31 J 
~ 
) 
t l 
~ 
----i 
----------r 
l 
~ 
f 
Date Major Desired l 
~ 
T 1es. Nov. 29 Accounting f
l f 
\-Jed. Nov. 30 Business Majors J Computer Science C
l 
Thurs. Dec. 1 Business/Finance l
E:conom;CS f 
~ ] Liberal Arts t 
~ 

Northwestern University Law  School  Thurs.  Dec.  1  All 11ajors  ][  
-------­ )i  
---------­ i  
INTERVIEWS  THIS  WEEK:  l J  
INTERVIEWS  STILL AVAILABLE!!!!!!!!!!J._  l J  
~  
Name  Date  Major  D~sired  [l  
Manufacturers  Na tiona!  Bank  Tues.  Nov.  2 2  :.11  t1aJ· ors  ~  
I l  
NCR  c.orporation  Tues.  Nov.  22  Bues/"tath/Science  [l  
~  

------------i ~------l 
I 

EVENTS l 
~ 

Title Date Time Location l ------] · ~ [f Career Workshop ~rues. Nov.22 6:30p.m. Farley Hall l l ' ' i
,~.............................,....................~...............~............,.....................,...._.....................,...........~.--..-._.. ................._ .._.. ___..,....,.. 
l 
J f 
~ 
l 
~ 
1 [ 

Only $6.95 for the solid color or bold stripe. Two for $13.00. $5.95 for all mesh. Or $10.00 for two. 


~~~M
~ . . 
THE CLASS CAP • Ill SiiVermine Road, P.O. Box )17, Seymour, Ct. 06843 
~:arne ------:::--:-:-'-:::--:------­
Piuse f'rint Clearly 
Address 
QUANTITY 
Bold Solid All llript Colot llo!lo 
Univ. ofAlabama t-,..--!---+---1 Univ. of Arizona 1----t---+~--1 Univ. of So. Calif. 1--~1----+--4 Univ. of Maryland 1--~1----+----1 
Univ. of Mi:uni t-----it---+---1 Univ. of Michigan 1--~1----+----1 Notre Dame Univ. of Oklahoma t-----it---+---1 
Ohio State Univ. of Pittsburgh t----+---+----1 
Total Quantity of Caps ;::1==~~=*===: 
City StJ,te____Zip_____ Sales lax (Conn. Res. only) 11---+-----if-----1 
Allow J-4 WHks lor delive~ Pay by chotck or mc•ney order. Total Cost L.--L--....1....-~ 
I ' I ~ t.· I •,'

L---~----------------------------------J

··-' 

Friday, November 18, 1977 the observer 

SMC Board plans rape prevention measures 

by Caroline Moore 

The question of security prob­lems, in response to students' concern and fear, was among the items discussed at the St. Mary's Board of Governance meeting last night. 
Mary Rukavina, student body president, said she had been assured by Kathleen Rice, dean of students. that steps are being taken. 
This includes education of women in self-protection, films and speak­ers, to be presented by the police department or the Sex Offense Staff. 
Rukavina said she would like to see one more security officer hired for evening duty. This would allow for greater protection around the campus, she claimed. 
Rukavina also noted some recent improvements in security. She said that beam lights. always used by St. Mary's Security, are now being used bv Notre Dame Securitv. She also pointed out the change ·in the Shuttle route and the re-institution of the Notre Dame escort service. 
Mary Laverty. director of Stu­dent Activities. said "we must be realistic about security and not narrow ourselves to just one road. Both campuses are without outer walls or fences. thus there are manv areas in which an assult can occu~. We should not just make changes on St. Mary's Road." 
In other business. Rukavina an­nounced that although Phil Dona­hue was contracted to come to St. Mary's to give a sho~ the only possible date was Dec. 13. The Board of Governance decided to cancel his performance because it is so close to finals and student 
Sadat plans visit to Israel 
[continued from page 1) the "significance, both symbolic and substantive," of Sadat's trip. -As soon as Sadat returned to Egypt,the official Middle East News Agency announced the resig­nation of Ismail Fahmy, his foreign minister and top foreign policy aide since the October 1973 war. Sadat replaced him with Deputy Foreign Minister Mohammed Riad, but several hours later the agency said Riad too had quit. 
There was immediate specula­tion both resigned in protest of the Israel visit. The news agency said Sadat accepted both resignations and named Butros Ghali, a minister of state and member of the minority Coptic Christian faith, as acting foreign minister. -In Beirut, Palestinian leader Ara­fat condemned the planned visit and urged Sadat to cancel it. 
The Syrian statement claimed Sadat's visit would give Israel "Gains it failed to achieve through war or otherwise in the last 30 years,'' an apparent reference to de facto recognition of the Jewish state implied in such a visit. 
The statement appealed to the Arabs to "act to thwart the expected dangers, and search for proper formulas to intercept them." 
For the Israelis, the visit falls just short of answering their 30­year quest for Arab recognition. 
"But the psychological impact of this on the Arab world... " said an Israeli Foreign Ministry official, pausing to search for words, " ... the psychological impact will be immense." 
The announcement of Sadat's visit followed several days of public exchanges by the Egyptian and Israeli leaders. The trip's timing came as a surprise to U.S. and other diplomats, who had not expected it until later next week. 
Begin said Sadat's arrival date was set Wednesday, and the final agreement came in an exchange of letters through the U.S. ambassa­dors to Egypt and Israel. 
The Israeli told repoters in Jerusalem that after Sadat's visit to the Israeli capital he hoped to be invited to Cairo. 
response would be limited. The cost was also another factor for cancelling. 
An Tostal chairman, John Roo­ney made a second presentation to the Board. He asked for volunteers for the An Tostal Executive Com­mittee from St. Mary's student leaders. He asked ·the hall presi­dents to seek an An Tostal chair­man from each hall. He noted that he would like to see "someone who is good with working with people." 
Gentle Thursday will be held at St. Mary's this year. Rooney wants "a lot more mud" for the Saturday events and possibly a greased pig contest. He said girls will be part of Bookstore Basketball and that there ar~ plans for a sleepout for this year's An Tostal. 
Last year St. Mary's sponsored a circus for An Tostal. Rukavina suggested having a mini-marathon this year. The event would be between 8 and .16 miles and would be opened to both males and females. 
St. Mary's students are circula­ting a petition protesting the allotment of basketball tickets, announced Amy Hartzell, sports commissioner. She said the petition will be presented to "Moose" Krause and the ticket office to show St. Mary's concern. 
Hartzell noted that "Digger" Phelps recently spoke at St. Mary's to a group of about 75 students and he seemed impressed by the aud­ience's concern over the limited number of tickets. All the games are sold out, but Phelps said the girls can show their interest by attending open basketball prac­tices. Hartzell cautioned, however, that students should call ahead to be sure that it will be an open practice. 
The friction between St. Mary's Board of Governance and the Observer has lessened. Rukavina 
noted  that  ''the  Observer  has  
responded to  the  difficulties  and  
everything  is  cool  because  the  
coverage has improved."  ·  

Presently, a Women's Awareness 
Week is being planned for April 3-8. Nancy Mogab, Senior Class president, is heading the commit­tee to set up this event. Mogab said this event is still in the planning stages so they are open for ideas. She suggested that Women's A­wareness Week highlight a wo­man's perspective on business, health, sports, and the value of a women's college. 
The Board of Governance wel­comed a new member, Adriana Trigiana, chairman of the Fresh­man Council. Following the meet­ing she said she ''was impressed by the concern and enthusiasm of the people on the Board of Gover­
nance." 




LIBRARY CARRY-OUT SPECIALS 
Busch $5.99 case Old Style $5.79 case Natural Light $5.99 case 
Qts. of Whiskey, Gin & Vodka $3.99 
Bottles of Andrea's Pink Champagne 
CHEERS!! $2.19 





SENIORS. 
SHOW CLASS OF '78 SPIRIT BY WEARING YOUR / Class T-shirts on THE MARCH and to the PEP RALLY 


It's a piece of cake. Way's clear. Snow's here, you're near. Get a group together ... come in spares or pairs. Come for day and night skiing-downhill and cross country for beginners, intermediates and ~xperts. Snowmobiling and apres ski activities, too. Call for the latest road and snow conditions. 
Michigan. for all there isto see and~~ Michigan no otherstate comes close. y Travel Commission 

Friday, Novem~r 18, 1977 

the observer 

THEY CHOOSE TO SING THE BlUES 
Rrst in a three-part series by 

Frank Laurino 
Muddy Waters sat at the end of one of the long tables in the back room behind the stage. Occasionally he'd sip the drink he'd been fondling for the past half hour and glance to one of the few places where no reporters or groupies stood. His eyes twinkled • partly from the Johnny Walker, but mostly with an angelic, deceptively innocent sparkle of a five year old. 
He turned to a staggering girl who was talking with him. Muddy wore his patented Cheshire cat smile, plastered across his face. "Thank you, darlin' , " he said, picking up on a compliment. Then, adressing all gathered there, "You'll have to excuse me now. My voice is starting to go. I can't talk to anyone." 
Some people left. Others remained, staring at 
Muddy as if he were the risen Christ. To many people 
he is. He's the bossman, the man who Is the blues. 
Muddy surveyed the glazed expressions around him. "My, my, my," he mumbled as he turned to me, drink in hand. "People sure do enjoy getting messed up, don't they?" Then, after a sip and a thoughtful pause, "Gonna be a good one tonight." 
Muddy was the headliner for the final session of the 1977 Midwest Blues Festival. "They're here for you tonight, Muddy," I said. 
"Naw," he humbly replied, "they came here for more than me." 
True. People had come to Stepan Center Friday, Nov. 11 and Saturday, Nov. 12 to see the finest blues acts still in existence. 
Friday night, well before the start of the show, crowds with blankets and pillows and numerous paraphenalia for mind alteration had lined up in the snow outside Stepan Center. There was a genuine enthusiasm in the air. But despite all the excitement, few people, if any, recognized Edith Wilson, Little Brother Montgomery, Brownie McGee as they made their way to the doors. 
The three calmly walked past the members of the sound crew who were frantically making last minute sound checks. They passed the MBF director Bob Kissell, who was trying to resolve his frustration with one working light crew and no working spotlights. The 
atrists paid no attention. They came to have some fun. 
Backstage was no les.s hectic. MBF staffers were busily filling the refrigerator with beer and munchies. Someone was filling the coffee pot. 
"Ahl Where's the coffee?" yelled Brownie. He reached into his back pocket and produced a flask. "Yeah, I'm all set for some coffee!" 
Brownie started drinking. Edith went to the bathroom. Brother sat down and talked about a recording Meade Lux Lewis made in 1930. 
"No! It wasn't in 19301" screamed Brownie. "Man, that wasn'tevenLewis on that song! It was ... uh ... .'' "Now I know who you mean," replied brother. "But that was so long ago. I can't remember.'' 
Perry Aberli, former MBF director, darted in occasionally. He was wearing a MBF staff shirt, similar to the ones he and his wife were selling at one of the concession stands. The crowds had already .come in and were settling down to an improvisional inebriated travelogue of music. Perry announced that the show would start in 20 minutes. He had all the excitement of a little boy who· d peeked .under the· Christmas' tree. . .·, "Psyched yet, Perry?" I asked. He only smiled. 
Bob stepped on stage as the lights died. Stepan was 
not full, giving Bob yet another worry: gate returns. 
But he put his problems aside as the crowd applauded. 
His "Welcome to the 1977 Midwest Blues Festival" 
opener was drowned by clapping, whoops and screams. 
"We've got a good show lined up," continued Bob. 
"It took a lot oftime and effort. I hope we won't have 
any unfortunate incidents like last year." The 
reference was to the Albert King s'et of the previous 
year when some clown tossed a beer can at the blues 
guitarist and nailed him on the forehead. There would 
be no such occurrences this year. 
Little Brother Montgomery took the stage to play his 
mixture of urban blues, boogie-woogie, and jazzed-up 
hooky-tonk ragtime. 
"This is a song I first recorrted in 1929," Brother 
said, fumbling with the mike. "It's called 'St. Louis 
Woman Blues.' " 
Except for an occasional clink of a bottle, yell of 
"play the blues, Bro," and cough from something-or­. other, Montgomery played piano to a quiet, attentive audience. Among his selections were the timeless "Vicksburg Blues," "Boogie-Woogie Blues," and "The Boogie-Woogie." Edith Wilsonsoonjoined her 
piano player, belting out the blues. 
Meanwhile, Sonny Terry had caught up with his 
partner Brownie backstage. Brownie had changed into 
his "concert clothes" which included a brown pullover 
and African jewlrey. "Got to be comfortable when I 
play," he explained. "None of this jacket-and-tie 
junk.'' 

A roar could be heard as Edith and! Brother left the 
stage. Edith's face beamed as she •!ntered the back 
room. "My! These people are so ~nice! I like this 
place!" 

Brownie finished tuning his guita1·. "Damn," he 
said. "Where's that coffee?" He smiled and reached 
for his flask, contented. "Oh well .. .'' 
Sonny, blinded in two separate childhood accidents, 
was helped onstage. Brownie, who had polio when 
four, limped behind. The ovation for the duo was 
amazing. "I can't believe the response the're 
getting!" exclaimed Perry. Sonny was simply 
mystifying on harmonica, and Brownie provided 
graceful complements on guitar as the two performed 
numbers they had recorded with artist:> from Leadbelly 
to Arlo Guthrie. 
During the Sonny and Brownie set, Son Seals had 
made his entrance with all the fanfare of a church mouse 
with a sore throat. For much of the evening, Son was 
visible to only a few. Not so with his band. They had taken over operations backstage: the drummer was adjusting the tilt of his tom-tom to the mi:cro-angle; the rhythm player quietly sat with a female: companion, sharing conversation and drinks; the bass player pranced about in a red jumpsuit and hat, looking like a negotiator of physical extravaganzas. 
The chanting for Son started soon after Sonny and Brownie left the stage. Perry was dancing and clapping in the wings. Bob had his arms raised 011. stage, trying to scream above the screams, " ...Son Se-als Band .. .'' 
Stepan exploded. Everyone was on tht!ir feet--those that were able. When Son finally joined the stage and strapped on his Guild, the noise hit pep-rally levels. 
Son wailed, burned, twisted, grimaced, squeezed every drop from his guitar. I remember glancing to the front row and seeing members of the Stumble Inn (a respectable off-campus social organization), in trans­fixed wxpressions. Once, a feedback-induced ~ose by Son during B.B. King's "It's My Own Fault/How Blue Can You Get?' had entranced the first few rows of swaying bodies and nodding heads.·' · 
At one point, Son's mike died. "That's O.K.," he yelled. "I don't need no mike to sing, the blues!" And then, tearing into a solo, he added, "I got another way ... " 
As the set ended, I rushed backstage to watch a sweating, panting Son Seals collapse into a chair. "Christ, it sounds like a riot out there," someone said. Son's manager appeared, trying to hold back part of his smile. "Boys, I don't think you're through yet." 
It was like blinking your eyes between Son's encore and Big Joe Duskin's opening number Saturday night. There seemed to be no passage of time, no change of atmosphere. Perry and Bob were running about, weary but excited. The only difference in the crowd was that it filled Stepan to capacity. Everywhere there were bodies, blankets, and bottles. Some people had already partied themselves out. The spotlights were back, working this time. Drums were being stacked offstage. The Stumble Inn had. Photographers battled the light crew for position in front of the stage. 
· Big Joe hopped into the spotlight and waved to the crowd. He dwarfed his piano as he flawlessly banged out blues piano standards. "I can't believe he's never made a record," a MBF staffer said. Midway through the act, a cowboy hat flew on stage. Big Joe donned it to the crowd's delight and waltzed to his electric piano/harpsichord. After a few of his originals, Big Joe was joined by Pine Top Perkins, Muddy Waters' piano player. for an extraordinary jam which sent the crowd flying. Dozens of people came to the side of the stage after the set to greet Joe and present him with various bottles of liquid refreshment. Joe turned to me with a mile-wide grin. "Man, I love it!" he said. "I L0-0-0-VE it!" As Mighty Joe Young's band set up on stage. the crowd made its usual shift to the back of Stepan. buying eats and t-shirts and records. Two people walked in with a newly-replenished ice chest and were distribu· ting the contents. "Man, I thought we had enough the first time," said one. A member of the Stumble Inn was scrawling some words on a MBF billing in the River City Review: 
And the rowdies were rowdy! 
And the blusies were blue! 
And everybody smiled ... a lot. 
... And it happened on my birthday; 
Ain't it a shame' 
Backstage, Joe Young was passing out copies of his latest record to some FM jocks. Perry did his excited-little-boy bit and gave me the "thumbs-up .. sign. 
The Mighty Joe Young Band was definitely the tightest band of the night, with better-than-average performances by the drummer and keyboard man. Joe was equally fine with some very tasteful guitar licks which were unfortunately not loud enough. 
Joe eventually brought the crowd to its feet when he jumped off the stage and played on his knees. People were dancing by the sides of the stage. One very good-looking yound lady was drawing her own crowd as she gyrated with a number of red-eyed young men. ''I hope this crowd doesn't burn itself out before Muddy comes on." was the response of a photographer. 
The Bossman by now had settled down backstage and was surrounded by reporters and fans. Someone in his band was pouring some Johnny Walker for a very young girl. "I just want a little bit to get my mother smashed," she explained to Muddy. "We came 90 miles just to see you." 
To Muddy's left was a very persistent and very messed up DJ from Pittsburgh. He was telling Muddy how much he loved Muddy, the blues, concerts, and drinking. "I drank a fifth tonight, Muddy," he proudly stammered. 
"Oh, gee," said Muddy, politely but very unim­pressed. "That's real nice." 
Muddy caught my eye as Mr. DJ tried unsuccessfully to hand the Bossman a joint. "Man. I'm tired." he said. 
The Muddy Waters Band had started playing. The leader would join in a few numbers. "Muddy, what are you thinking about?" I asked. 
"Man, I gotta get my act together," he answered blankly. ''Man,there'sa big crowd out there!" 
The Bossman was greeted with a standing ovation. Although the set was musically near-perfect, it was not without technical flaws. Muddy's guitar amp mike had to be quickly replaced, and PineTop's vocal mike had a gremlin attack. One guitar player (there were two besides Muddy) broke a string during a solo, but managed some very good riffs. 
Both of Muddy's guitarists were technically excel­lent, but they always seemed to be outshone by the Bossman's pick-and-run playing and occasional slide. Star of the night award goes to harp player Jimmy Roger. 
Because of transportation constraints, Muddy had to disappoint the Stepan audience with a short set, highlighted by the classic "Kansas City." 
"You didn't play 'Mannish Boy' for me," I said to Muddy after his set. "Sorry, my man," he apologized. "No time, y'know?" 
About 20 people were trying to get past MBF staffers guarding the wings. Kissel turned to one and screamed, "NO-one is to get back here. Understand?" 
The band played another song without Muddy. The cheering for "more" got louder. Perry was doing his clap-dance as he egged the crowd on. The guy from Stumble Inn continued to write: 
That's the blues: Abstract, patterned, Something for everyone. 
Muddy grabbed for a glass of Johnny Walker and rested near the refridgerator. "Man, that was a good one," he said, smiling. "A good one.'' 




·~ 
Friday, November 18, 1977 the observer 
9

Letters to a Lonely God 
•

The Sinai Side of the Law 
girl's loveliness in a fishing shack on the hardly be expected to know--think to His own life so that ] try not to make 
tip of Cape Cod? Rules are a matter not of old testamentary self: ''Sexual indulgence judgements. But each time you have ever 
life, but of language, cold, dead, prohibi­is fun; therefore, I'm going to pass a received the Eucharist--and I have given
Reverend tive, inhibiting. Anyway, if God wantsRick commandment making it a sin.'' I think you the Eucharist often enough--you have 
to know the rules, why did He deliver the God let human beings discover for them­registered your fidelities as a Christian. ..----­message to Moses or to me, instead of selves that sexual energies, indiscriminately Part of your Christian fidelity (I assume)
Robert Griffin 

telling Rick? Rick is the guy with the girl in indulged, can be so mischievous and implies a care not to hurt the little ones of the sack; she is warmth at his fingertips, self-destructive, that it destroys all possi­the Kingdom; specifically if it implies that feeding hungers that are immediate and bility of community life or personal you should not give or accept the In August, I met a girl, and we immedi­consuming. Embrace a girl, and you can integrity, just as murder and theft and intimacies belonging to marriage when you A few weeks later, we be at peace with the energies of your perjury against one's neighbor can make intend the relationship to be nothing more moved in together into a place which I had human nature. Embrace a rule, and you life generally miserable for everybody. A than a winter's tale told by an amiable We do and have slept together, have to cope with the loneliness of an woman sleeping around, a man who is a idiot, plotting his flight like the swallows made love, or however you want to state it. unshared bed, an unshared rO()m, an sexual predator: their offenses against the when the springtime comes back to 
I was brought up that this is unshared life. decencies of life in the tribes of Israel were Capistrano. 
I was not a virgin before Let it be clear: as a priest, I stand with judged harmful enough to deserve stoning. Rick, I believe that every sentiment and this relationship, but I by no means slept the commandment and tradition that begin I think it was man who said to God--and emotion you feel for this girl is clean and around town. I do believe I love this girl, with the prohibitory words: Thou shall not. not God who said to man--" Adultery and honest. I'm sure you don't lie to her, or however I don't believe marriage is the .. But I am uncomfortable trying to offer lustings are sins," and God said: "I promise her anything when the intention answer in the immediate future--she is only the Church's teaching (it is always easier, agree." Thus, it was out of a community's is to give only Arpege. I am sure you are nineteen, and I know we have some things telling folks what they want to hear) which experience, I think, that the command­happy together, and that your love would to do before it would make sense. Now, prohibits people, unmarried to each other, ments began. protect her; but you won't marry her (and Father. I just don't feel like I'm sinning or from keeping each other company in a Six thousand years later, the command­she won't marry you; I have not overlooked doing wrong. I have thought about it and I sexual way, when each other's company, ments still encapsulate wisdom for the that), though marriage is the game you are just don't feel wrong... enjoyed in all possible ways, is what each fishing villages of the Cape as well as for playing. Christians don't play games with 
one wants most in order to live conten­the travelling campsites of the tribe of relationships Christ has made into sacra­My family and I have always been tedly. Where I fail most egregiously as a Judah. The wisdom says: "Man bears in ments. extremely close. I don't want to hurt them, teacher ofthe Church's logic is not so much his body a fire sinewing the loins. There is When you wrote me, J.Uck, I am sure you but I just don't feel wrong... I guess I in counselling the young, but in instructing a warmth in that fire to be used as a expected traditional answers. The hard don't know what to think. Thus this letter the old; as, for example, a widow and a blessedness by a man and woman who principles of the Christian tradition can to you ... widower, aged sixty five, who, for reasons have become endeared to each other; out of never be as comfortable to live with as the 
having to do with income needed for it, all human life comes. Watch the fire; it warmth of a woman whom you love to The last place I went when I left ND was, of survival, are prevented from being mar­is never to be used casually or without caress. But loving a woman doesn't mean course, to the Grotto. I do miss it. ried; but who, nevertheless, are trying, in commitment. It can consume the ignorant taking all that she is willing to offer; each other's company, to go not gentle and the innocent who would make it a toy.'' because when you take that much from any from Rick, aND grad, class of '77 into that good night. Young frlend Rick, freshly graduated, person, you become responsible. Married Having sneered a little at command­writer of letters, lover of a girl: tender responsibilities are spelled out in vows and ments and the lifelessness of rules, maybe relationships like yours would be insensi­promises made before God. If you don't 
Sometimes, I don't like my job. we can look for a moment at the Sinai side tively described if I dismissed them under feel willing to assume responsibility for a Sometimes, I don't like being a moralist or of the law. "Everything I ever wanted to the moral rubric of sin. But is the lifetime, then don't accept the favors a preacher who is forced, out of duty, to do,'' says the cynic, ''is illegal, immoral, or relationship wise, or thoughtful, or respon­symbolizing the deepest gift of self that frown on cozy, comfortable lifestyles that fattening." It does seem, in this perver­sible? Are you prepared for all the possible this woman will someday owe, as a debt in nice people have adopted in forgetgulness sely-ordered universe, that every time I'm consequences, e.g., if that nineteen year justice; to the husband she will belong to of commandments and moral upbringing. really enjoying myself, I look around and old girl were to become pregnant? Can you until death. Two young people--alive and beautiful and find someone shaking a finger at me, ever, ever be sure she won't? Can you be I don't like my job at times; it makes me decent--give themselves to each other in saying "It's a no, no." That is why I hate _sure she does not--or will not--want defend viewpoints that are not fashionable. a temporary intimacy that leaves them temperance freaks and the Hunger Coali­marriage, even though you decide there It is very old-fashioned to say you don't comfortable, happy and protective of the tionists (but not really) collecting money at are other lives you must lead before sleep with a girl until after you've married other's existence in essential ways. Then, the doors of the dining hall. How can I becoming anyone's husband? When you her. Such anachronisms are part of the 
because of their families' anger at the enjoy eating two desserts, when I've just drift off, will she then settle in with another faith that has lit candles at the Grotto for a choice they have made, the priest, the been reminded that some child is starving young man, and then another, until finally, hundred years. clerical bachelor, the celibate, is appealed to death in Bangladesh? one of her young men decides to marry I am glad you remember the Grotto, to: "Is it a sin, Father? I don't feel like it's Believ it or not, the commandments on her? What is the decency in this for her? Rick. I am glad you visited the Grotto as a 
sinful, but my family says it is -;in." And sexuality (the Sixth and the Ninth, I think, What possible cheapening and humiliation final event of Commencement Day, before the priest can answer only with the rules though I may have forgotten, since I don't is she exposed to? · leaving Notre Dame. that begin "Thou shall not..." But what break them much), were not the life project I know that lots of men and women have I will light a candle there for you; ..and do rules have to do with anything? What of some Jewish, cosmic spoilsport. affairs before marriage; and I know that for the girl. Remember me to the ocean off do Mount Sinai and the tablets of Moses Jehovah did not--in consultation with the young women, if they get into difficulties, Cape Cod, and I will remember you at the have do v•ith the caresses made to a young angels, who have no bodies, and so could have abortions. I am soiled enough in my lakeside amidst the glow of candles. 
Ellipses 
Maureen Sajbel 

The gallery has been transformed into an environment of monumental ellipses, cir­cular lines and graphic blacks and whites. Its artist has been working for three days with cut out geometric forms, simple mathematical instruments and his mem­ory, the original drawings and renderings lost through a mistake in shipping. But the works are now complete, and Michael Waldstein's show Cutouts opens tonight at St. Mary's. 
Waldstein, a young San Francisco artist originally from New York, has worked for the past two years in developing his geometric style of cutouts apd line draw­ings. He uses the cut out forms of wood in both wall and floor pieces to create an environment of simple grace and captured electricity. What could be austere mathe­matical forms become softened and com­pleted with the addition of drawn lines and arcs. He explained that "the texture of the line blends the whole into the surface of the wall and acts as a transition. They are like Besides being influenced by a vivid a specific gallery wall. On hearing that 
·calligraphy." He compared the attitude of interest in science and astrophysics, Wald­the wall was 12 feet 2 inches, Waldstein the pieces to· Henri Matisse's last works. stein emphasized the influence of art adjusted the 12 foot piece he was currently "The interest is in the dynamics of history in his work. he studied at Cooper ..working on to include the extra few inches. movement. It seems like a visual MICHAEL WALDSTEIN Union in New York and said that it had Many artists do not accompany their movement without actual motion." the patterns of light and dark form a ''the best art history department in the works to galleries and shows for instal­
In drawing his interest to compostion striking series of sharp edged ellipses, like United States." His interest in Indian, lation. W aldstein, however, believes that and arrangement, W aid stein has elimi­a large, unblinking eye. In trying to land Chinese and Japanese art inspired the in cases such as his, it is the artist who has nated everything from canvas to color. He on a black ellipse of this moon, the subliminal qualities in his pieces. to do the installation work. "The whole allows edges, lines and shapes to define astronaut discovers that the black ellipse is thing is the artist's putting lines on the wall; 
motion and the picture plane itself. a void, a portal to the other end of the W aldstein came to install his works on he has to be there to make decisions." 
The inspiration for the titles came after universe. Waldst~in. fascinated by this Monday after studying blueprints of the Waldstein's show opens tonight to the Walstein read 2001: A Space Odyssey, a mystery of Japetus' ellipses, titled his own gallery. His selection of six pieces was public from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. in the Little novel by Arthur C. Clarke. At the end of elliptical works after the moons of Saturn tailored to the available space and dimen­Theatre Gallery in Moreau Hall at St. the book, he explains, the astronaut passes and Jupiter: Japetus, Tetyls, Titan, Dione, sions of the walls in the Little Theatre Mary's. The artist will be present to 
over one of Jupiter's moons, Japetus. and· · Ganymede and Calisto. Gallery, .One piece, Titan, was even cut for . discuss hiS works. 




op1n1on 

Support Letter Offering
__.__.__.iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiann titus 
"The right to food is a basic 
human right... the fundamental 
freedom is the freedom from 
hunger and starvation," according 
to the Carter Administration. The 
President has stated the import­
ance of feeding the hungry; now it 
is time for him to show his concern 
by proposing and implementing 
programs aimed at overcoming 
poverty and hunger. By joining in 
the "Offering of Letters" this year, 
people can prompt Carter to pro­
pose a new course of action dealing 
with the causes of hunger. 
The "Offering of Letters" is a nation-wide letter-writing campaign held around Thanksgiving. Each year key issues concerning hunger and poverty are targetted and people are requested to write to the · President and their congressmen asking for reforms. In previous years, this campaign has been instrumental in obtaining the Right to Food resolution passed in 1976 and a grain reserve program in 1977. The Right to Food resolution is one of the most far-reaching declarations concerning hunger made by congress and the grain reserve is essential to world food 
security. Probably neither would 
Budget constraints 
Dear Editor: 
At long last I have rallied to the 
support of Notre Dame. I am finally 
urged to take up the pen and write 
to "theEditor''. For months I have 
been reading the barbed and often 
misleading columns concerning the 
social injustice and immorality that 
is evidently leading to the ethical 
downfall of this university. The 
latest issues seem to be the 
question of unionization and the 
entrance of the Saga food program. 
Before the anguished cries of "unjust" are wrenched from the pursed lips of frenzied moralists, let me remind you that the Univer­sity is two things: 1) a Catholic University, and 2) a financial institution. As unfortunate as it may be, money is what keeps this university open. This money, how­ever. is not God-sent, but rather, it is yours, it is mine, and it is some pr~stigious group of backers' who have taken a liking to the golden dome And/or the Fighting Irish. Despite this seemingly endless supply of money, there is a limit to our financial resources, and it is this bounded capital that does not always allow us to act inthe most benevolent and generous manner. Although this may be stone cold reality, it is nevertheless true. 
This is not to say that financial excuses compensate for every apparent unethical decision made by the administration, but rather that the students should be aware of the fact that certain priorities have to be established. A choice ha~ to be made; either y.our tuition goes up (undoubtedly a cause for cries of alarm), we lose some of the distinguished faculty we have been fighting for, or we try to economize in other areas, i.e. dining halls, groundskeepers, heating bills, etc .. It simply does not work any other way. Much to the disappointment of those who evidently enjoy hold­ing the knife to the administrator's throat. many of the decisions made are done in the students' best interest. They arc concerned with upgrading an academic institution. After all, we are what Notre Dame is here for. 
While I don't sanction the cold­blooded slashing of innocents' jobs. I do ask the students, while remaining suspicious of adminis­
have been passed without the campaign of letters. This year we would like to see President Carter make the struggle against hunger one of his chief concerns. Speci­fically we will be asking for fair economic arrangements between nations and reforms within countries particularly our own. 
The Notre Dame Community is showing its concern about poverty already by fasting and giving money at the dining halls. This is good, but it is not nearly enough: The basic political, social, and economic evils underlying hunger still exist and can only be changed by taking political action. Writing to Carter is one opportunity of doing this, but it is important to write now since he will be deciding some of his major objectives within the next few months. 
The letters do not have to be long, but it is important that many people write. Briefly state your concern about the problem and urge Carter to take the initiative. The more support there is, the greater the chance that he will act. In the past the "Offering of Letters" has proved successful and with your support the results this year will be no different. 


trative directives, to quell the 
fanaticism. I personally was sorry 
to see the Teamsters so easily let in 
(the good intentions of some con­
scientious student group). I would 
question their policies before I 
would question Notre Dame's. Just 
who are they working for? 
Mary T. Ryan 
Justice 
and reality 
Dear EdJtor: 

As a male member of the Notre Dame community, I would like to comment on Marilyn Hosher's letter on Social Injustice (11-16­77). It is not the goal of men in general to keep women locked in hiding. No sane person defends the motives and actions of a rapist. However, it is a very different matter to discuss the ideologies of rape and face it in everyday practice. 
From a legal point of view, we must prevent society form nurtur­ing the idea of rape being provoked by the woman. Statements by judges that women's clothing sti­mulate rape and any woman accep­ting a ride from a man must expect sexual advances are intolerable. Rape is generally not motivated by sex, but by one person's desire to dominate another. Sex is the means used to satisfy this motive. Conjec­ture that women bring rape upon themselves is false and certainly should not be used to rationalize the man's act. Legally, the man is responsible and should be punish­ed for his transgression. · Yet, fighting the issue in the courts and in the streets are vastly different things. In avoiding any crime, it is never foolhardy to take realistic precautions. I don't be­lieve women are victimized when they are told that an area is unsafe at certain times. Sure, there are steps that can and should be taken. The distressing thing about hind­sight and new actions is that they are unbable to change what has happened. I regret that all I can do is offer my sympathy to those two girls. Yes. I'm fighting mad. but not mad enough to have loved ones of mine take unnecessary chances. 
Michael Molinelli 
*The ObserVer 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's 
The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters ·are the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and letters are encouraged to promote the free expression of varying 
opinions on campus. 
Business Manager Sue Quigley BoxQ Advertising Manager Steve Bonomo 'Notre Dame Production Manager Karen Chiames lnd.46556 
Friday, November 18, 1977 
Why don't you write me? I'm out in the jungle, I'm hungry to hear you ... 
The mailbag is empty, so take up those pens, pencils and crayons, ND-SMC, and get those deep thoughts down on paper NOW! 
An alternative to the shuttle 
Dear Editor: 
Like every other citizen of this community, I was shocked and appalled to learn of the senseless rape of two SMC women on the ND campus last week. 
For many of us, the first reac­tions were, "Where was Security at the time?" (driving right by), "why don't they install a better lighting system?" (they did last year at a substantial cost to the University), and "If only the shuttles ran more regularly ... "(the night shuttle has since been rerouted). These are all areas that will continue to :receive adminstrative consideration. But the wheels of bureaucracy turn slowly and only with a lot of !:rease. We cannot always afford to wait for others to act for us. The cost is too great. 
In the final analysis, the respon­sibility is ours. How can we continue to function as free and independent citizens of this com­munity -pursuing our live!> with dignity and purpose and without paralyzing fears and limitations ­and yet still be mindful of our own safety? 
U.W.-Madison and other large universities have initiated pro­grams such as "Whistlestop" which encourage all female stu­dents to wear a specially engineer­ed, very visible and very distinc­tively shrill whistle around the neck at all times. This has proven to be a dcterrant to many would-be assailants. SMC presently offers a class in t.he art of self-defense. Eight or nine students signed up this semester -perhaps it should be mandatory? Educational "rape workshops" are presently being organized for the SMC Campus. 
All of these ideas taken together are helpful; no one of them, in itself is failsafe. I would like to add my voice to the clamor and suggest an informal "underground shuttle" between ND and SMC based on the tried-and-true principle of "safety in numbers." If there were desig­nated an official "safe-station" on either end of the "ND-SMC line" 
(i.e. steps of Holy Cross Hall-SMC and the lobby of ? ), students who are walking either way could meet and wait in sheltered safety until enough other students came along to make the trip together. There is enough traffic between the two schools so that, with some cooperation from the student body, the wait would never have to be too long. ND men could have the courtesy to pass by these "sta­tions," as they walked from one campus to the other, thereby providing a convenient kind of 
It is past-timt· that we all recognize our interdependence and responsibility for each other. It's a lot easier to join hands than to squeeze the bureaucratic oilcan. 
Elizabeth A. Twitchell Director, McCandless Hall 
Beef up ' security 
Dear Editor: 
In view of the recent rape incident involving two St. Mary's students, we wish to call to the attention of the administration the ludicrious state of our alledged security, "For what types of duty are our security officers qualified ?" Certainly not for dealing with crisis situations. 
While the physical condition and abilities of Notre Dame Sec­urity is admirably suited for the task of writing traffic tickets, these gentlemen are by no means capable of subduing a would-be assailant. It appears inexcusable to us that this glaring deficiency is allowed to perpetuate while such heinous offenses occurs. 
The answer is not better lighting, it is a security force armed, not of necessity with guns, but at least a group possessing the physical powers to cope with such emer­gencies. 


©1977 MlRer Brewing Co, Milwaukee, Wla 
' '' 
',.~ ' 

I 

Friday, November 18, l977' 


Out of court 
Ticket 'misunderstanding' settled 
By Diane WUson Senior Staff Reporter 

A misunderstanding over an unwritten University policy on athletic tickets sold to faculty and staff resulted in a law suit settled out of court yesterday, according to Michael Busick, Notre Dame ticket 
manager. 
Zenon Dibzinski, class of '75 and former University employee, pur­chased two ND season football tickets last May at the official faculty-staff ticket sale in May. After Bidzinski left his position with the Universtiy in late July, the University sent him a notice in the 
first week of the semester stating two season football, basket-
i~!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!=~!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~!!!!!!!!S discount rate. 
ambrosl•a 
One of Doc Pierce's most delectable dishes. A fresh. tender 1 0-oz. chicken breast with the exotic flavor of our special Polynesian marinade. This tempting entree is served on a warm bed of wild rice. and garnished with pineapple. Ambrosia is 
of course. by your 
bread with butter. 

Tuesday/Wednesday
•
3 95 
.a~ 
.-~en:e~ 
~ 
120 N. Main St. Mishawaka 255-7737 

I l, 

he would not be receiving the tickets because he was no longer 
employed by the University.  The  
note  enclosed  a  check  for  the  
amount he had paid in May.  
Bidzinski, a first-year Law  
student,  said  he  protested  the  

revocation to Busiock and other universtiy officials, but no com­promise was reached. He filed suit· Sept. 16 against the university for breach of contract in St. Joseph County Small Claims Court. The preliminary hearing was set for Monday. but the settlement made 
any court action unnecessary. Eligible members of the faculty and staff are given the option of 

ball, or hockey tickets at a 50 percent discount each spring, Bu.­sick said. It is University policy to refund the ticket money if the person leaves the employment of the Universtiy, he added. He did state that this policy was not explained on the application how­ever. 
Thomas Mason, vice-president for business affairs, stated he believed that the policy is right, but did not know if the employees were informed of it. He added taht while the people involved should be informed, it was only logical that if a person terminated his employ­ment with the University he would no longer be eligible for tickets at a 
Bidzinski, claims the University entered into a contract with him for the tickets by accepting and cash­ing his check last spring. Accord­
ing to Bidzinski, he was unaware that the ticket office claimed the right to revoke the sale. He stated his main objection to the Univer­sity's action was that he was not offered the chance to purchase the 
tickets even at full price before the University refused delivery. 
The main element of the settle­ment Thursday included tow sea­son football tickets for next season purchased at full price. Bidzinski 
& pure sugar cinnamon glaze 

U.S. 31 (Dixieway North) in Roseland across from Holiday Inn
******************** 

Looking for a special gilt? 
m UeolmtlfWest 
-288-3559 open dallf to -8 Sun t2 -6 

Shiff T-thlrll $J Stiff Pipers 5 lor 1 flollr t~ Dheolnt on T•• T-thlrll Co111 lo Ollr pre-ChrllflnaS Spllialf 
Mtoarquolle, leather & flan1110• off Orltl.t PalnH• Reg t4S -tss Now •a 
W. 11111111 -•ke T-tlllrll & ....._,••••11 
said he settled because he con­sidered the offer to be the first one representing any sort of compro­mise. 
After filing in September, Bid­zinski learned of a similar case against the University of Michigan two years ago. In that case two Michigan law students were re­fused eight tickets they had pur­chased for the Ohio State-Michigan game. They filed suit against the school, but apparantly because of the adverse publicity of surround­ing the case the school settled out of court and gave the students four of their tickets free. 
Had the case gone to court this Monday it would have been too late for Bidzinski to receive the tickets. However, in the original suit Bidzinski had alternatively asked for !1,500 in damages in the event the suit was not tried until the season ended. this amount is the maximum allowable damages in Small Claims Court. 
Bidzinski said he wasn't inter­ested in fighting only for money and added, "Since the University would definitely appeal any mone­tary decision against them, I have no interest in getting involved in a law suit that I couldn't possibley win until long after I was gone from law school." 


FEAST OF CHRIST THE KING 
5:15 p.m. Saturday  Rev. Robert Griffin, CSC  
9:30a.m. Sunday  Rev. John Fitzgerald, CSC  
10:45 a.m. Sunday  Rev. Edward Kilmartin, SJ  
12:15 p.m. Sunday  Rev. William Toohey, CSC  

7:15 p.m. Sunday <Vespers) Rev Edward Kilmartin, SJ 

450 to eat rice and tea 
by Mary Leveno 
The St. Mary's World Hunger Coalition has scheduled their annual rice and tea meal for this Monday. Approximately 450 stud­dents will substitute the rice and tea meal for their normal dinner. 
For each who participates in this 
meal,  the  Hunger  Coalition  will  
receive sixty cents.  However, the  
Hunger  Coalition  stressed  that  

each student must attend the rice and tea meal or the money will not be donated. Money collected will be distributed through various agencies connected with this organization. Helen Gallagher, co-ordinator of the ND-SMC Hun­ger Coalition noted, "We would appreciate anyone bringing· to the organization's attention any other groups that are worthy." 
The meal will also serve to publicize the Thanksgiving "offer­ing of letters." Thousands of congregations across the land have joined in a massive "offering of letters" to show President Carter their support for an initiative to help the poor and needy. This initiative would include fair econo­mic agreements between rich and poor countries, including our own. Also included are proposals made for reforms within countries so that the poor will have opportunities fot adequate nutrition. 
Farley sponsors Professors Night 
Farley Hall will sponsor a "Pro­fessors~ Night" Sunday at 8 p.m. in the Farley basement. Refresh­ments and a slide presentation on King Tut by Robert Leader, profes­sor of art, will highlight the evening. All professors and their families are welcome. 
Bulla Shed mass to be celebrated 
The Friends of L'Arche are inviting Notre Dame and St. Mary's volunteers from Logan Center to celebrate a Mass of "sharing and affirmation of the gifts the Lord has given to all his people" at the Bulla Shed at 2 p.m. on Nov. 20. 
Young Demos 
hold elections 
The Notre Dame-St. Mary's 
Young Democrats recently held 
officer elections for the 1977-1978 
school year. 
Ray Watson was elected presi­
dent, Stephen Keppel. vice-presi­
dent, and Greg Sebasky, secre­
tary-treasurer. 

14 the observer 

Irish open season at Michigan State 
by Brian Beglane Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame wrestling team opens up its 1977-78 campaign tomorrow at the Biggy Munn Invitational Tournament, hosted by Michigan State, with hopes of improving last year's 8-6 record. The loss of last season's co-captain, Dan Heffernan, is counterbalanced by the return of nine experienced grapplers who should constitute a well rounded Irish lineup. 
Tomorrow's Biggy Munn Invita­tional will feature some strong competition for Notre Dame's wrestlers, with teams such as Michigan State, Toledo, Central Michiga, Indiana State, and Wes­tern Michigan being represented. Irish Head Coach Ray Sepeta looks at the tournament as more of a steppingstone towards the rest of the ~cason. 
"I am taking a very low keyed attitude as we go into this tourna­ment because its main purpose is for conditioning and experience," noted the coach, who begins his third year at the helm of the Irish. "Every wrestler is guaranteed to compete in at least three matches so I see this tournament as an opportunity for experience. Each weight class is given a five pound allowance also (you can wrestle 150 though you weigh 155) so we won't be going all out to train for it." 

Pat McKillen, Dave DiSabato, Bob Dreger, and Mike Padden are four grapplers whom the Irish look to to fare well this weekend as well as throughout the season. Co­captain for third straight year, McKillen turned in a record of 20-5 last season adn will wrestle in the 150 pound class. The native of Waukegan, UJ., is just one match away from tying the ND career win record of 58. As a freshman, DiSabato ended with a recod of 15-9 and will once again compete at 
126. Three time monogram winner Dreger will be in the 177 pound slot while Padden will grapple at 167. 
· ''The Joss of Dan (Heffernan) will hurt but we are a more experienced team this year so I hope to do better. We face a very tough schedule and must avoid unjuries to stay competitive," com­mented Coach Sepeta, who is assisted by Jerry Ross-, a law student at DuLac. "I was pleased with last year but we fell down in the critical stages. I hope not to do that this season." 
George Gedney, will compete for Notre Dame at the 118 pound position. The wily junior finished last season with an 8-8-2 record. Art Branner, who never wrestled in high school and learned the sport at Notre Dame, will be in the 134 pound slot while sophomore Chris Fayo will grapple at 142. Senior Pat Landfried, who won the Na­tional Catholic Tournament as a freshman, will compete at 158 while junior Vince Keszei will go at 
190. Freshman Dave Rodgers will fill in at Michigan State at heavy­weight for Bob Golic, who will be performing for the Irish on the football field tomorrow. 
"Bob Golic can compete with anyone in the world. Jknow that is an extreme superlative but he has just got it all together. To be a 250 pounder and have all that speed and agility is very rare," said Coach Sepeta. "If he devoted all his time to wrestling he would be practically unbeatable.'' 
So the Irih take the fir:>t step towards what they hope will be a successfuf season. The Blue and Gold grapplers face a tough schedule and must stay away from injuries, as was not the case last year. The seven tounaments they are in will give them competition from New England to Colorado. Between these and the squad's dual meets, Notre Dame will see five Big Ten teams and two Big Eight clubs. "I know this schedule is demanding but I feel we have 
the chance 
•

Observer 
., 
Sports 

Your challenge is to spell a word, or words, using the letters showr1 below. Each word must contain the letter the indicated number of times. 
1. 
A word containing 6 "i's": 

2. 
A word containing 5 "a's'': 


3. 
Three words containing 5 "e's": 

4. 
Four words containing 4 "~'s": 

5. 
Two words containing 4 "u's": 


" 

When there's a challenge, quality makes the difference. 

We hope you have some fun with the challenge. Pabst Blue Ribbon is the Number 1 beer in Milwaukee, beer capital of the world. 
That's why we have the confidence to issue another challenge-the Pabst challenge. Taste and compare Pabst Blue Ribbon to any other premium beer. You'll like Pabst because Blue Ribbon quality means the best-tasting beer you can get. 


Since 1844 it always has. 
PABST. Since1844.The quality has always co1ne through.
•. 

PABST BREWING COMPANY, Milwaukee, Wis., Peoria Heights, Ill., Newark, N.J.; Los Angeles, Calif., ·pabst, Georgia
.-------------....:....._______:._ __::___:______, 
·snonunwnt 'sno;ndnJosun ·s ·woOJI0040S •wooJ~ooq 'IOOISIOOI 'IOOJdjOO.:I ·to 
+ 'J9d99~99Q 'eouepuedepJ91U! 'eOU90S9AJ9U3 "& "BJQBPBOBJCIV '1: ·.(III!Q!S!A!PUI "I :J.M8UY ........................~ ...-.·~-----..--........--..... -....·------··---.N>~-~~~JJI"~.,.~~~..>~.-.......o7'.......-..\ .............~_.... ____.... ____________ 
to go against these teams," said Sepeta. 
After this weekend's tourna­ment, the Irish travel to Indiana Stae for the Indiana State Invita­tional November 22. This tourna­ment will serve the same purpose as the Biggy Munn Invitational. After Thanksgiving break, the team will begin heavy preparation for the Rochester Institute Invita­tional, Notre Dame's first big test, December 2. The first home meet is slated for nee l 0 
,RESTAURANTE SCOTTSDALE MALL FREE!!! 
Soft drink with 3 items TACOS •eABV TACQ 
• 
IIIRIJOS • TAMALES 

• 
fiCIIlADAS • TACO DOC 

• 
TOSfADOS • lUI TACO 

• 
BARBEQif TACO 

• 
SPAJIISI HOT DOC 

• 
CHUUBUICfR "We carry a line of 




vegetanan Foods. 
l-EY SENIORS! LOUE SAYS: Qxne i1 and 
have a Pizza 

:l1r=======JULI0 'S::::;:::::iii! I I 
now serving 
DfDT TrrTr\US 
'I..A.....J.\...-1V1 
GUCKE!V 
DIN'NEl?. 


:l your room piping hOt, phone!~~~, 
232 7919
@! . :• j~~~
:i:~: CLDSED TUESDAYS ~~~: 
;:::: :;::
:i::: 4 pm-11 \Wekdays ~=~= 
•••· v 
:1::: 4 P.m-1 \¥Jeekends r:~ .__.._ ..'* __......~~·:.-@;:W;:~;.::::~$~::8:'«~~==:;::~ 




NOTICES For Sale: Dna pair Yamaha NS-11100 M 
RIDES Two need ride to Cincinnati Nov. 23. Call Steve -1720. 
Desperately need ride to Akron or Canton 
Ohio for Thanksgiving break. Will share 
expanses. Call Diana 4810. 
Ride needed to Syracuse, NY or vicinityfor Thanksgiving. Jim 8376. 
Need ride to Albany, NY for Thanksglv­lng • Bruce 8992. 
Wanted: Need ride to Long Island, NY forThanksgiving break. Can leave any­time. Call Ray at 1436. 
Wanted: need riders, heading south to Corpus Christi, Texas on Nov. 21 via Ill. Missouri, and Oklahoma. Jay 1419. 
Three need ride to Columbus area for Thanksgiving. Greg. 1243. 
Need: One way ride to Toronto area for break. gladly share expenses. Call 6962. 
Need ride to Pittsburgh for Thanksgiving -Call Chris 4-4515. 
Need ride to St. Louis area for Thanksgiv­ing -Call Peggy 4-4774. 
Wanted: Ride to Boston for Thanksgiving break. Will share driving and expenses. Tony 1436. 
SOUTHERN TURKEY: Looking .for riders on Thanksgiving Eve traveling to Atlanta via Louisville, Nashville, Chattanooga. Karen or Bill 616-429-3507. 
Ride needed to Cleveland or somewhere on Ohio Turnpike Monday afternoon Nov. 21 Call Diane -7883. 
Need ride to Ann Arbor. U. or Mich. Nov. 18. 4-4886. 
Wanted: ride to Mich. State at Thanks­giving. call1244. 
Wantad:Rida to Columbus for Thanksgiv­ing. Can leave Tuesday Afternoon [22nd] or anytime after. Call Tim at 6867. 
Au sacours: Need ride home for two to SW Conn or NY Can leave Mon. 21st after 3:Nick 8174. 
Need ride toLl, NYC or No. NJ can leave Tues. the 22nd. Rob 8464. 
Needed ride to and/or from Ann Arbor on Weekend of Nov. 19. Jim 8251. 
Need ride to Milwaukee Tuesday night Nov. 22. Barb 4-5245. 
'l 
• ... 
classified ads 
.... 


NOTICE TO ALL SENIORS: Today Is the last day to vote for YOUR SENIOR FELLOW!! Cast your ballot at lunch or dinner in either the North or South Dining Hall. Will do typing. Neat accurate. Call: 287-5162. AN TOSTAL COMMITIEE is looking for assistant chairman, day chairmen, event chairmen, secretary, publicity, ect. Applications at student government of­!ices. 2nd Floor LaFortune. Typing. Reasonalbe rates. Call 8051. Anyone wishing to register to vote in Indiana's May election should call Moat 4-4001. Interested in updating your understand­ing of the Christian faith and Catholic tradition? Considering the possibility of becoming a Catholic? For more informa­lion, drop by the Campus Ministry offices in the Memorial Library or in Badin Hall, or call 6536 or 3820. Overeaters Anonymous, starting group meetins on campus -call 289-6021. THE OBSERVER OFFICES WILL BE CLOSED AT 4:30 p.m. ON FRIDAYS THROUGHOUT THE WINTER MONTHS. Everyone can now have their own souvenir of Notre Dame's championship football season. CAll 8982 now to get outstanding full color action shots of our victory over Southern Cal. Some never before seen in Sports Illustrated. Logan Volunteers-Air Force football trip this Saturday Nov. 19th. Bring a friend and meet at Logan at 11 a.m. We' II return at 5 p.m. Free lunch too' Any questions call ARt Koebel (287-7509) or Jeanne Conboy (284-4391 ). MORRISSEY LOAN FUND Student loans. $20-$150. 1 day wait. 1 percent interest due in 30 days LaFortune Basement. M-F 11:15-12:15. FOR RENT Five room house for rent. Central gas and heating. Within walking distance. 233­6438. Country room for rent. Reasonable, spacious, 10 min. drive from campus. Call 277-3604, afternoons. LOST AND FOUND FOUND: pair of bi-foc. glasses in Wash. Hall. Call Dennis-7909. HELP! lost my wallet Fri. Nov. 11 between Washington Hall and B-P. If found, you may keep football ticket and money (what little there was!) but PLEASE return wallet! Call Katie, 1332. Lost: White, Silky shawl at SMC sopho­more formal. Call 4942. Lost: Freshman Calculus Book and green notebook taken from South Dining Hall on 11/15. Please return and no questions asked. 8279. LOST: Man's pocketwatch in library auditorium or C1 parking lot or in between. $20 reward. Call Rick 272-5408. LOST: 1975 Orange Bowl watch. Great sentimental value, irreplaceable. Please contact Ernie Hughes 287-8082. Reward$  studio monitors: Dna month old In original cartons and packing $850.011 Phone 2741. Stereo Speakers -JBL-L16 Speakers. Hardly used. 277-4056 (after 6) Camero -1974 Air Conditioning 24,000 miles. Red. Showroom condition. 277­4056 Basketball tickets for sale. ALL GAMES!!! call1159. '73 cougar XR -7 Automatic, Full power, air. Best offer. Call 3479. River City Records Is Northern Indiana's largest and most complete record store! Located just 3miles north of ND-SMC on US 31. River City Records has over 8,0011 records and tapas to choose from. NO and SMC checks accepted. Open until 10:011 Thursday, Fri. and Sat.; noon to 8 Sundays. For Sale: Two ovation Guitars [one] classic ovation with hard shall ovation case asking $225.011. [one] Balladeer ovation with case, barcus berry pick-up and leather strap asking $165.00 must sell both call Gene at 1694. Remember the picture of Ted Burgmeierin Sports Illustrated intercepting an errantly thrown Southern Cal pass. It was agreat shot, but I've got a better one as well as a number of other full color action packed shots of the USC game. Call 8982 for details. WANTED Need two GA tickets for Air Force. Call Mark-1067. Need 1 GA Air Force ticket. Call Mary 4786. Need 2GA Air Force Tickets. Joe 8927 or 8930. Need 2-4 GA Air Force Tickets. Tom 3693. Need 2-3 GA Air Force Tix. Tim 1036. TYPIST WANTED: Full time, to typeset display advertising, Monday and Wed­nesday thru Saturday afternoons and/or evenings. Hourly pay. E)(perience helful, but not necessary. Apply in person at: The Penny Saver, 2101 S. Michigan St., South Bend, 288-1411. Need 2 Air Force Tix call 4-5245. Hurtin' for 6GA Air Force Tix. Tom 1066. Help a desperate Senior! Need 1 Air Force GA or student Ticket. Call Ann 6808. Need 4GA tickets for Air Force. Will Pay $$$. Gary-6143. Need 2or 3AF student or GA tickets. Call 1244. Large Family coming from Sicily. Need many GA and Student tickets. Will make offer you can't refuse. Call VIto 8685. I need 4 GA Tix for Air Force. Russ -8772. Need 1 Air Force Ticket. Call 3784. I need 2 GA tickets for Air Force game. Call 6814. Need 1GA ticket for Air force -Call Mark 3695. I will pay anything for two Air Force GA Tickets! Call Charlie at 8549.  
LOST: watch between North Dining Hall and Stepan. Call 287-8082. LOST: 2 gold rings left in the Rock's gymnastics room -one with blue star sa8phire and the other with initials: G M. If found please call me-7439. Glasses found with Black case at library circle • to claim -call Tom Basile -233-8288. LOST: "St. Ma7r's Track" Jacket with "Bob" sewn on ront. Rob 8464. FOUND: gold ring in front of south cafe-call 2722 to identify. FOUND: Pair of gold wire frame glasses on quad. can be claimed at Observer office weekdays between 1Q-5 p.m. LOST: ONE PAIR GLASSES ON SMC campus. Rounded frames. Please call Mary 5793. LOST: Dark Green down Ski Parka taken at Stepan center last Saturday during Blues Festival. If seen or feeling gull~ call John 6761. Please, It's cold outside. FOR SALE Kenwood KA 5500 Integrated Amplifier-Sansul 99011 Tuner. Both in excellent C?nditlon. List Price -$7011 asking $4011. J1m 1002. WHY PAY MORE??? Flanner records has $6.981ist ~s for only $4.50. All $7.98 list lp's only .29. Over 400 albums in stock. Phone orders accepted. FLANNER RECORDS, 322 Flanner, phone 2741. ~ours, M-Thu 4-5, 6:30-8. Sun. 2-3:30.  Anything? Need only one Air Force Ticket. Bill 8792. Help! Need 3St. Tic. for Air Force. Rosie 1291. Need TONS of Air Force GA tickets. Tom 234-0980. Evenings. Help, I need two Air Force tickets, GA or student please call Pete at 8518 anytime. Help my two little sisters see their first ND football game. Sell me two GA Air Force tickets. Call Dave at 3493 anytime. Notre Dame Is batter than UCLA -right??? Help me prove It to my brother from LA need an Air Force ticket for him. Pleez call 4-5137 or 1580. I need one Air Force ticket. Just one. George 1248. Wanted 1STU. or GA AF ticket. Call Joe 1173. Desperately need 2 GA Air Force tix. Please call Cindy after 10. 5484. Need 2 Student Air Force tlx. Debbie, 234-1485. Need 4 GA Tickets for Air Force. Anne 4983. Need 5 GA tickets for Air Force game. Diana 5424. Need 4 GA Tix. AF, Mary 5469. Needed: Student or GA tickets Air Force. Call Jan 4-4184.  

For that matter K C might have some trouble herself! 
BA-2 Will hold its first annual Ed Oehmler Memorial Backgammon tour­nament. Call1078 for further details. Be there Aloha!!! 
To our South Quad flasher, 0' Happy Day! We love your abuse! 
The "Best" and "Greatest" Foxy Ladies 
TO Pick-a-Car-Brett, Thanks for being our chauffeur. This is no PIMP: We want a birthday kiss but not over the phone. Your 18th will be unforgetable! 
Your Birthday Escorts 
To a Ramblin' kind of guy, We're bending elbows and getting small a little early, but Sunday will be here before you know it. Notre Dame's not the only one we'll be toasting this weekend. Happy 19th Lee O'Latz. 
Denise, Kathy, Maria 
BMJ It's not March 21. You are not abusing me, ... We aren't playing raquetball. .. I I'm not hanging up on you ... But do take your vitamins and get ready for an eventful 19th. Happy Birthday 
p.s. (You're right I don't want to live in Iceland or Australia) 
Nancy, Don't get as drunk tonight as the 4th. Happy 18th! 
B. O'C and the D.T's. 
Happy Birthday to Hugh (Oops!) Happy Birthday to you Happy Birthday Sue Turgot (that's Turcotte STUPID) Happy Birthday to you! 
KTD 
Taddy Bear, I really missed your living room floor Saturday night. Tee-Heel 5th roommate 
Derelict, Do ya want to do it to it. MITCH 
That made hearts rejoice I wish he were mine -Oh drat! EAG 
FYB Identify yourself to proper persons before I get ambushed! Old Lady In 0.0. 
Hey Jack, Welcome to SMC. Love, Bltz and Block 
Double Agent Deighenou, Your mission, should you choose to acce8t it, is to prove that you really are 21. ood luck. (You'll need it(  
Hey Parma! Thanks again for the dinner. Anytime you feel the urge to gamble let me know. JMW Life, Liberty and the Pursuit of Happi­ness! For Senior Class fellow vote Fidel Castro.  
Anyone who feels qualified to fill "SAH of the WEEK," contact 237, 241 446 Farley.  
Pandora's Books, 937 South Bend Ave. down from Corby's Is where you can sail books now and gat credtl toward used books next semester. Phone 233-2342. ND-SMC Junior Class Christmas Formal Dec. 3 You wouldn't want to miss the bliss of "Winter's Kiss." Nov. 16-22 Ticket sales start...so hurry and ask the one dear to your heart! Further info. Call Lynne 4476, Kathy 5111, Marnie 2-6976. If you have any printing, lay out, and/or managment experience and would like part-time on-campus work call campus press 7047 1-5 mon-fri, ask for Bill or John. This is a paid position.  
SENIORS -RESUME WRITING AND TYPING -CALL MARGIE OR MARGO 272-5217.  
HELP ME My brother from Cleveland State asked me for some help with his term paper. I need some Ideas on Fitzgerald's Great Gatsby and William's The Glass Mana­garla. If you can give me a hand call John 1184. Color USC pictures available only at 318 Zahm. Call8982, that's 8982. Remember the number, 8982. out of town, call collect.  
SMC London -Rome summer programs. College credit available. For information call Prof. AR Black 4-49311 or 272-3726. CHEECH AND CHONG will have you ROLLING Sat. Dec. 3 at Stepan Center. Tickets 3.75 at ticket office.  
Pete and Frank, Thanks for the escort home Sat. We Love snow in our hair and eyes! Joan and Patti. PS.. REVENGE!!  
Frank, My humblest and public apologies. I'm sorry I didn't believe you. Patti  
Much thanks to all who came to our wild party Sat. night! Love, 349LeMans  
Why drive to Michigan? Happy hour friday at the K of Cfrom 4-? All Invited. Everyone is invited to the Happy hour at the K of C Friday from 4 -?  
H'l Evarybodylllall Cookie and wish her a happy 21st Birthday. 5432.  
Miss Coold• Sacra Caeurll ~ can still sea -happy Z11t Bl Ill The Diller C8(.lllltl  
Looking for a quiet, nonsmoking room­mate. JJ might not make it through the weekend. ~  


Ride needed over Thanksgiving break to  Richie:  
Xenia-Springfield -Dayton area of Ohio.  Richie plus H. equal GAl!  
Can leave Wed. Am willing to share  Ra, Super and TD  
expenses. Call Joe Menino at 7735 (6).  
Hil, MJ, Jannies, Ker, Jo-Jo-Bean  
BASKETBALL TIX  Maria and V,  
How can we ever forget our 20th and  
NEEDED: Two bleacher basketball tix.  21st??  
Will pay reasonable price Tim-3537.  Thanks so much. you're the greatest!  
Maur and Laur  
Desperately need B-ball Tix vs. Mar­ 
quette U. Feb. 26. Will buy or Trade.  217 Holy Cross:  
Please call 3256.  Beautiful Blue eyes says that you even  
have a perverted ironing board. How  
Need 2 student basketball tickets (toge­ does she know?  
ther). Will pay good money. Call 277­ HP  
3604. Dave.  
Laura,  
Wantaa 1 student season basketball  Don't Bite those nails and what does  
ticket. Dan 288-8723.  SAE mean?  
MISC.  Welcome back to NO, JP!  
MJ  
Want graduate student to share hickory  
Village apartment for about $2.50 per  Goober,  
day. References and Deposit. Call 272­ Good luck on your last home game. 
6517.  Watch out for 28. I'll be rooting for ya.  
Love, Bimbo  
WANTED: Used car in excellent condi­ 
tion. Prefer low mileaged compact please  Times of Ombudsman  
call 288-0218 after 6 p.m.  and no questons  
are better than times of questions and no  
"Tennis Pros and Assistant Pros - Ombudsman.  
Seasonal and year-round clubs; good  
playing and teaching background. Call  Got a question or complaint? call us at  
(301) 654-3770 or send 2 complete  OBUD.  
resumes and 2pictures to: Col. R. Reade,  
WTS, 8401 Connecticut Ave. Suite 1011,  Th!l authorities welcome wat and an- 
Chevy Chase, MD 20015."  nounce the beginning of WAT weekend.  

Mala Grad. Stud. wants share apt. with Zahm Section 2A; 
same [spring semester] write: Mark The endangered species will not leave Thompson 105 Dorchester Rd. Louisville, loose balls unmolested. Jimmy saysKY 40223. "Species by 20. "· 
Ski salesperson/mechanic to work even-Saint Mary's Students: Seats are still ings appro)(. 12-20 hrs. per week. Tom available on the New York Area charter 272-5300. flight Dec. 22 and Jan. 16. Call Mary Laverty 4319. Wanted: 1 pair of mans size 9 hockey skates call Dave at 1244. Hurry to the North, Hurry to the South A ballot lsn't good If its only by way of Wanted: Deliva~ parson for Jullos mouth glm.Sat. eva. on y must have own car. You must mark your Senior Fellow alary $3. par hour plus Ups. Call choices 1,2,3, and 4 233-2354. Polls close at 6 so get your butt out the 
r 
.·~· ... .. . . ·-.. 
door. 

Wanted: Seniors 
who have not voted for Senior Class SMC JUNIOR CLASS PRESENTS: 
Fellow.. Do it Today!!! "THE CINCINATTI KID" with Steve 
McQueen, Sun. Nov. 20th at 7:30 and 
10:00 In Carroll, SMC only $1.011 
·-­
Mary:
PERSONALS 
Just thou~ht I'd shock you by putUngIn a persona.

JJ SAYS SHE IS GOING TO FIND HIM 
Your blrtbday swim pertner.

THIS WEEKEND* IF IT KILLS HER! BE PREPARED RAMOII 
LOOK OUT-SENIOR DEATH MARCH. Madeline C. and Mary Man will beJulia, leading the pack.

Ham 21st 
PS nkl for the por1nlt · 



I 

Irish radar detects USAF approach 
by Tony Pace Steve Hoog and quarterback Dave Sports Writer Ziebart. The sophomore signalEvery facet of the Notre Dame caller has passed for over 1500offense will have to work to­Entertaining the idea c•f a major yards this season while completinggether if the Irish hope to shoot bowl bid, the Fighting Irish football 47 percent of his passes. Hoog, a down the Air Force. 

team will 'enter Notre D~1me Sta-junior, has latched on to a team dium for the last time this season ~eading 28 aerials. He also leads tomorrow afternoon to fa,:e the Air Air Force in scoring with five Force Academy. touchdowns. 
Newspaper and win: service The Falcon rushing offense is in stories during the past few days the hands of sophomore tailback said that Notre Dame will accept a Shelby Ball and sophomore full­Cotton Bowl bid. However, bowl back David Thomas. Thomas, the bids may not be officially announ-team's leading rusher, has gar­ce:d until around 6 PM. Comment-nered 260 yards this season on 70 ing on the matter, Coach Dan carries for a 3. 7 average per carry. Hevine said, "It has always been Ball has 247 yards on 55 carries and our policy to schedule the best a 4.5 average per carry. Quarter­possible opponent, and this should back Ziebart has carried the pig­
..· 
help us in moving toward our goal skin 127 times but for a paltry 1.3 of the national champion:>hip." yard average. 

To receive a bid, the Irish must Defensively. Air Force will be first defeat the Air Force. without the services of senior· Although they were vktors last linebacker Jack Kucera, the team's week against Vanderbilt, the Fal-leading tackler, who suffered a cons have only a·2-7-1 record on the fractured vertebra two weeks ago season. Also, they have been against Army. He will be replaced ddeated by Georgia Ted1, Army by junior Mark Cerise. The rest of and Navy, three teams the Irish the Falcon defense, which has have trounced by respect:tve scores forced 36 turnovers this season, of 69-14, 24-0 and 43-10. remains intact. 
Air Force has a relativelly young On the Notre Dame side of the squad, as is evidenced b.Y the fact ledger, the Irish stable of running that only eight of their 22 starters backs seems to have returned to are seniors. The Falcon team is top form. Leading rusher Jerome also light. Their defensive line, Heavens, with 861 yards on 199 
.. witth an average weight of 219 carries, and speedster Vagas Fer­pounds, will be going up agains a guson, who had 75 yards in 13 much larger Irish offensive line, attempts against Clemson, should which averages about 250 pounds. see most of the ball carrying duty. 
On offense, the Falcons feature a Terry Eurick, David Mitchell and fine passing combination of flanker Steve Orsini should also see action. 
Paul Stevenson'=:='='='='=':,:,:,:,:,:,:,:'='=·='='='='='='=:=:=:=:='=:=:=:=:=;=;=;=;=;=;=;=;=:=;=;=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:::::=:=:=:=:=:=:=,=:=:=:=::::::::=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:::=:=============:=:===:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:='=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:::=:=:=: 
The Irish Eye 

Well. the Irish are just one game shy of clinching a bowl bid. The Air Force Academy upset Vanderbilt last week and will be trying to do the same to Notre Dame. tomorrow allowing Ben Martin to go out a winner. 
Although Irish fans will have their hearts in South Bend, even Notre Dame supporters will have to admit that all ears will be tuned to Ann Arbor to see what's happening between the Buckeyes and the Wolverines. 
The Crimson Tide and the Oklahoma Sooners are both idle this weekend. The Norman boys are preparing for their battle next week with Nebraska. while. Alabama is waiting for their season finale with Auburn in Birmingham. 
So. with the assistance of Tom Desmond. here are the Irish Eye's picks for this weekend's collegiate gridiron action. Air Force at Notre Da:me: The last time these two clubs met was in Colorado two seasons ago. Notre Dame found themselves trailing 30-10 entering the fourth quarter. However. aided by the last minute heroics of .Joe Montana. Notre Dame emerged victorious. 31-30. a win which was later termed. "the greatest comeback in Notre Dame history ... Tomorrow, Hen Martin says goodbye to the Falcons after 20 dedicated years as football coach. The Academy will no doubt be looking to send their coach out a winner. No one really expects the Air Force to challenge the Irish, but then no one thought that the contest two years ago would be close either. It's funny how much emotions can play in a ballgame at times. The Irish better not wait for some final period tallies to put them ahead. Where the Notre Dame gidders will be over the Holidays is riding on this game. This i~ not the time to let the Falcons soar down for the kill. If the Irish regain their form from two weeks ago, Notre Dame should triumph bv 21. Desmond backs the Irish by 35. Clemson at South Carolina: This battle is always the highlight of the year ror both squads. although the Tigers made an exception last week. Columbia is the sight of this contest and that will certainly help the Gamecocks. Every year this game proves to be a very tight battle and the favorite usually does not mean a thing. But, tomorrow the Tigers will chalk up w1n number eight and hope for their bid to the Gator Bowl as they down SC b~· b. Desmond Clemson by 3. Ohio State at Michigan: This garne really will decide a lot as far as the Big Ten picture. But, although this battle will decide who will be travelling to l'ascdena. nothing else is really at stake. Whichever of these two powerhou!>es attends the Rose Bowl does not matter. One of these teams will end up playing either Washington or UCLA in the January event. Even with a victorv in the Rose Bowl, the Wolverines or the Buckeyes will pn b<1hly not be fn the -National Championship picture. The Pa~ Eight rcpn.:!>entative will have at least two losses. and by defeating that team, not much will be proven. But, anyway, tomorrow's game is what is important at this time. Although a tie would be a welcome sight. allowing the Irish to advance in front of both teams in the polls, that is highly improbable. The Buckeyes have a stronger team, but playing in front of 
over 100.000 Ann Arbor fans is no easy task. Michigan needs this win to go to the Rose Bowl, while Ohio State could settle for a tie. Bo Schembechler and Woody Hayes are both known for their conservative play, but look for Schembechler to be a little more flamboyant. The Wolverines should capture this battle for the second consecutive year as they start to smell roses by 7. Desmond eyes the Buckeyes by 4. Texas A & M at Texas Christian: How much can the Horned Frogs take every week. Last Saturday, TCU had to suffer through their game against Texas. This weekend there is no let up in sight as the Horned Frogs compete with the Aggies. Since the game is in Fort Worth, the Horned Frogs might be good for one touchdown. However, the'Aggies will just be using this clash as a prep game before their contest with Texas next weekend. So, this battle will go to A & M by 35. Desmond looks for the Aggies to triumph by 21. · Delaware at Colgate: The Red Raiders defeated Northeastern last 
weekend to lift their season ledger to I0-0. However, even though Colgate won. they were dropped from the AP top twenty. It's hard to judge how good Colgate is when they have not played anyone that has a representative football team. But. just being able to go I0-0 is a l"cat in itself and deserves some recognition no matter what kind of schedule is played. Jim Coyle believe> the Red Rai9ers should capture win number II tomorrow as they defeat the Blue Hens by 10. Desmond backs Delaware by 4. Euylor at Texas: The Longhorns have to win this one if they expect -the Irish to maintain their interest in the Cotton Bowl. A loss to Baylor would send Notre Dame looking for a berth in the Orange or Sugar Bowl. But, Texas isnot about to let the Bears stand in the way of their chance to play Notre Dame for the tirst time in seven years. The Longhorns should retain their number-one ranking as they down Baylor by 14. Desmond looks for the Texas Longhorns to capture this one by 21. Tt:nnessee at KentuckJ: The Wildcats are unable to participate in any post-season competition, but that's not stopping them from proving they are among the best. Rumor has it that things are not going well in Knoxville. Fans expected Johnny Majors to bring them a National Championship in one year. but it just has not worked out that way. Majors will build a winner, but it's going to take a couple more years. Tomorro's contest. however, will go to Kentucky by 14. Desmond backs the Wildcats by 10. Purdue at Indiana: Mark Herrmann may be one of the nation's passing sensations, but, he is also leading the country in interceptions. Michigan held the freshman quarkrback to his lowest total completion mark last Saturdav. The Hoosiers '-"ill not be as fierce as the Wolverines, but this battle ~ill be unbelievably close. Indiana will give the Boilermakers a battle. but in the end. Purdue will end up ontop by 3. Desmond goes with the Hoosiers by 1. Mississippi at Mississippi State: This should be quite an intra-state battle. The game will be played in Jackson, the same place where the Irish met their doom. That stadium is where both teams play most of their major games. There will not be any home field advantage. but the Rebels should be able to down the Bulldogs and make up for last year's 28-ll thrashing. So, give this game to the Rebels by 6. Desmond backs Bulldogs by 7. Colorado at Kansas Stat!~: It's hard to believe that the Buffalos were destroyed by the Sooners. Is Oklahoma really that awesome or did Colorado just fall apart? Well. tomorrow the Buffalos will have an opportunity to redeem themselves. Kansas State should give Colorado the chance to get back in the win column as the Buffalos capture this confrontation by 10. Desmond goes with Colorado by 20. Wisconsin at Minnesota: The Badgers won their first five games and then proceeded :to drop the following quintet. Well, that is not known as consistency. Wisconsin will be trying to lift their record over the 500 mark, but Minnesota is a difficult place to accomplish that task, The Gophers are not overly consistent either, defeating Michigan and then losing to Indiana and Michigan State the next two weekends. However, tomorrow wm be the day for Minnesota! as they down the Badgers by 2. Desmond backs the Gophers by 6. U1•set of the Week: illinois at Northwestern: Can the Wildcats win their last game for John Pont? Yes, Pont has decided to give up his reign as football coach and simply reside as athletic director. Maybe Northwestern can pull this one off. The Illini will not be a pushover, but if there's any chance, this is one of the Big Ten teams that Northwestern can beat. Although this is a wild shot, it's hard to go against Pont in his final game. So, give this contest to Northwestern by 1. Desmond follows Illinois by 14. Last Week: Eight right and three wrong for 73 percent. Guest picker, Bob Keen, had nine correct and two wrong for 82 percent. Overall: Eighty-five right and 22 inco.rrect for 80 percent, 
Joe Montana will start his sixth 
straight game at the Irish helm. 
The Monongahela, Pa. passer has 
thrown for 1,240 yards and seven 
touchdowns this season. His chief 
target has bee All-American tight 
end Ken MacAfee, who has 46 
catched for 698 yards and four 
touchdowns. Recently, Montana 
has thrown more to split end Kris 
Haines, who has had seven recep­
tions in the last two games and a 
total of 20 for the season. 
The regular Irish defensive unti 
is healthy and will start intact. 
Middle linebacker Bob Golic is only 
23 tackles away from the Notre 
Dame record of 144 tackles set by 
Greg Collins in 1974. 
The Irish have dominated the 
series with Air Force, winning all 
six previous encounters. In their 
last meeting, played at Air Force in 
1975, Notre Dame had to score 
three, fourth period touchdowns to 
overtake the Falcons and win, 
31-30. Montana was the quarter­
back who rescued the Irish on that 
day. 
Tomorrow's game marks the 
coaching finale for Air Force men­
tor Ben Martin. Martin announced 
last Thursday that he . is retiring 
from college football and the Air 
Force Academy after 20 years of 
coaching. 
The home finale is, of course, a 
sellout and game time is set for 
1:30. 
Big Ten action 
It's fourth ranked Ohio State 
versus fifth ranked Michigan Satur­
day for the right to go to the Rose 
Bowl, but Michigan State's Spar­
tans have hjopes of breaking 
between the Big Two for a second 
place finish in the Big Ten football 
race. 
If Ohio State, 7-0 in the 
conference, defeats, Michigan 6-1, 
and Michigan State 5-l-1, defeats 
Iowa, 3-4, Michigan State, would 
finish in second place, one-half 
game ahead of Michigan. 
The Spartans, however, are on 
NCAA probation and are not 
eligible for a bowl bid. A Michigan 
victory over Ohio State would leave 
the perennial powers as co­
champions again, with Michigan 
going to the Rose Bowl and Ohio 
State probably getting a Sugar 
Bowl bid. 
Ohio State is on record that it will 
not accept anything but a major 
bowl bid. Michigan has in<:Jicated it 
would go to a lesser bowl. 
While the two giants battle for 
the Rose Bowl and Michigan State 
hopes to break the one-two hold of 
Ohio State and Michigan, Purdue 
wil be at Indiana, Wisconsin at 
Minnesota and Illinois at North­
western. 
Indiana, 3-3-1, could clinch a 
fourth place finish with a victory 
over Purdue, 3-4. However, the 
Hoosiers will have to stop quarter­
back Mark Herrmann, who has 
passed for 2,289 yards and needs 
239 yards to break the single 
season Big Ten record of. 2,527. 
Indiana will be trying to retain the Old Oaken Bucket in one of the oldest rivalries in the Big Ten. 
The other two games involve retiring coaches John Jardine at Wisconsin and John Pont at North­western. 
Wisconsin hopes to end Jar­dine's career with a victory against favored Minnesota. Wisconsin won its first five games and them lost five straight. A victory would give the Badgers a winning season of 6-5 overall. 
Minnesota already has a 6-4 record and is assured of a winning season, the the Gophers need this one to break even in the Big Ten at 4-4. 
Falcon pep rally 
There will be a pep really for the Air Force game tonight at 7 p.m. in Stepan Center. Speakers will include Daryle Lamonica Officer Tim McCarthy and members of the Notre Dame football team. 








