

server 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's 
Monday, March 28, 1977

Vol. XI, No. 102 
Badin to house new men's laundry unit 
by Bob V arettoni Senior Staff Reporter 

The first floor of Badin will be the site of the new men's laundry machines. according to Bro. Kieran Ryan, vice president of Business Affairs. 
·'Our engineers are working on the layout of the. thing now,'' Ryan said. "The laundry machines will be installed as soon as possible. We're planning for the end of May." 
Ryan said the specific location of the six washers and six dryers will be in the north west corner of Badin's first floor. 
In order to do this. Ryan noted, the tailor shop will have to be moved. Workers are now clearing a space for the tailor shop in the dry cleaning center, he added. 
·'There was no other place available on campus for the machines." Ryan said. He said he would have preferred someplace other than Badin such as LaFor­tune, for example. 
Rvan said the move to Badin "complicated our operations." However, all other plans consider­ed. he said he had no other choice. 
After the tailor shop is moved, Ryan said workers will partition off the area for the laundry machines. He said cold water lines will have to be installed, and also dump drains for the washers. 
Ryan said he doesn't have any cost estimates at the present time. 
The Whirlpool distributors who own the coin-operated machines in the women· s dorms will provide the new machines, Ryan noted. He said the set-up for the new laundry center should be the same as in the women's dorms, only open to everyone. 
Ryan said the only entrance to the laundry location will be through the double doors on the west side of Badin. He added that the center will remain open 24 hours a day once it is completed in May. 
The travel bureau. the barber shop. Tony's Shoe Shop. and Campus Ministry also occupy the first floor of Badin. Ryan said these places will remain unaffec­ted. 
Ryan. who is responsible for the operation of the laundry center, was expected to make the decision on the location of the new machines six weeks ago. The decision was After accepting the NCAA championship trophy, Head Coach Mike Decicco learned that he wasdelayed due to Ryan's illness last 
named Fenci "Coach of the Year." 
Photo F.
month. 
Two 747 jetliners collide in Canary Islands 
. SANTA CRUZ DE TENERIFE. Canary Islands (AP) -Two giant jetliners collided and burned on a foggy runway yesterday on this Spanish island and airport orricials feared at least 514 persons were killed. This would make it the greatest tragedy in aviation history. 
A spokesman for the Dutch airline KLM said all 235 passen­gers and 14 crew members aboard its Boeing 747 were killed when it collided with a Pan American Boeing 747. Pan American officials in London said their plane was carrying 380 passengers and 16 crewmen. In Los Angeles, where the Pan American flight originated, officials said the plane had 370 passengers. 
Airport officials said 105 pass~n­gers and an unknown number of crew members had survived from the Pan American plane. 
KLM president Sergio Orlandini reported the Dutch plane was traveling at a takeoff speed of 

St. Mary's SBP elections today 
-
Baggiano, Stolze, Chin O'Connell, Rukavina, Hedges St. Mary's students are electing a Student Body Hedges and Kathy O'Connell, sophomores, for President for the 1977-78 school year today, with two vice-president of academic affairs and vice-pr,esi­candidates, Mary Ann Stolze and Mary Rukavina, dent of student affairs, respectively. Running with running for the position. Students can vote in two Stolze, a junior, are Terease Chin for vice-president locations: LeMans lobby, from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. and of academic affairs and Joann Baggiano for· in the LeMans side of the dining hall from 4:30 to 6 vice-president of student affairs. 
p.m. Election results will be announced tonight. L-_A_Is_o_ru_n_n_in...;g:::......w_i_th_R_u_k_a_vi_n_a.;,.'_a...:j:...u_n.:..io:.:r.:.,..:.a:::.re.::......:C:.:a:.:t:.::hY::._________--!.:[A.::bo=-:v:..::e:....'p~hotos by Leo Hansen) 


collided with the Pan American craft that also was maneuvering for takeoff. 
Pan American officials in New York said that the Pan American plane was crossing a runway when the collision took pla<:e and that both _planes were in the process of taking off. 
Both airlines repeatedly revised the number of people believed aboard the planes. 
KLM said its passengers includ­ed 25 young children and six babies. Pan American reported its jet picked up 14 people in a stop at New York City, rather than the 16 announced earlier. It said no cassualty lists would be provided until relatives of victims had been notified. 
The Spanish news agency Cifra said 570 people had been killed and at least 67 injured, 4 seriously. 
Both planes were carrying tour­ists on charter trips and both had been diverted from intended land­ings on a sister island at Las Palmas because of a terrorist bomb blast there . 
Orlandini said the KLM plane had not refueled at Santa Cruz, but the Pan American plane had taken on a full load shortly before taking off. Cifra said a time bomb had exploded at the Las Palmas airport some three hours before the Santa Cruz accident. Eight people were injured, it said, when a bomb hidden in a vase blew up in a flower shop. 
No organization has asserted responsibility for the bombing, the agency said. but an independence movement has been blamed for previous bombing incidents on the islands, which are Spanish. 
Eyewitness talks of crash 
"You couldn't see the runway from the airport building, the fog 
. was that thick" said Eduardo Urbano, a Santa Cruz resident who arrived at the airport within an hour after the collision. 
Urbano said parts of both planes and bodies were scattered over the runway and "a wing broke off from one plane that was in flames." "There are definitely some survi­vors," a Pan American official in London reported. ''As to how many there are we don't know yet.'' 

In a telephone interview with the administrator of the Santa Cruz General Clinic, he said 18 Ameri­cans were admitted there and two were in critical condition. Seven­teen other Americans were admit­ted to a second local hospital and they were all in fair to good condition. a doctor reported. 
Cifra said the Santa Cruz airport, Rodeos. was in heavy fog at the time of the accident and that one of the planes preparing to depart crossed into the second jet's talc.eoff path. PanAmerican in London said the crash occured at 4:40 p.m., 
11:40 a.m. EST. 
The worst single airline crash on record was that of a Turkish D0-10 near Paris in March 1974 in which 346 people perished. 
The most disastrous air collision was over Zagreb, Yugoslavia, last Sept. 10, when 176 persons were killed in the crash of a British Airways plane and a chartered Yugoslav airliner. 
Sunday's accident was the first at Santa Cruz since Dec. 3, 1972, when 155 people perished in the crash of a chartered Spanish airliner. 
Petition drive organized over graduation tickets 
byTomByme of tickets available to graduates to 
Campus Editor A group of seniors are organizing a petition drive intended to demon­strate their dissatisfaction with the five-ticket limit announced Thurs-. day by the commencement plan­ning committee. "What we'd like to indicate to the committee is that there are some students concerned,'' said senior Marty White, who originat­ed the plan to start the drive. "There's never been a limitation on tickets before." He added that the aim of the drive is to move the graduation ceremony outdoors. White remarked that the peti­tions had met with a favorable response from seniors who were contacted this weekend in the residence halls and added, "we're just starting." Signatures will also be gathered today and tomorrow in the dining halls during dinner, and tomorrow and Wednesday during lunchtime. Seniors will, in addi­tion, have an opportunity to sign the petition in the Huddle. accord­ing to White. The decision to limit the number 
five was reached by the commence­ment planning committee after consultation with a group of grad­uating students that included five seniors, as well as representatives of the law and graduate schools. Of the seniors, only Student Body President Mike Gassman voiced objection to the proposal. 
Gassman explained that his dis­sent was motivated by his concern that many of the graduates might need more than five tickets. He noted that petition would provide an opportunity for seniors to regis­ter their opinions on the matter. "It'll give people a chance to see if there are a lot of people with more than four people coming," Gass­man said. 
The planning committee cited the record size of the graduating class and the scheduled address by President Carter as the main factors in their decision to issue tickets to the commencement cer­emony. An outdoor ceremony was considered and rejected due to the uncertainty of ,the w.eather and the 
Icontinued' on page 7) 

.-News BrieJ~-.:7..........-----__, 
====================================World 
Ram named defense minister 
NEW DELHI, lndla · India's new rulers patched up differences yesterday and agreed to form a cabinet composed of the two leading parties that ousted Indira Gandhi at the poles. Jagjivan Ram, 68, head of the 85-million strong Untouchable caste, was named defense minister in the government of 81-year-old Prime Minister _Morarji Desai. 
::::=:::::::=:::::::=:::::::=:::::::=:::====::::=:::::::=:::::::=:::=== National 

Death penalty changes? 
WASIDNGTON • The Supreme Court will be considering whether death is a just and constitutional punishment for rape and three other questions today when they hear arguments that could lead to !!ignificant changes in the scope of capital punishment in the United States. The judges will also hear arguments in cases asking whether a mandatory death penalty for murderers of police officers in constitutionally valid, whether a man who committed a crime punishable by death under a state law later struck down as unconstitutional be condemned some years later under a new law that is consitutional or not and how far a prosecutor can go in making impassioned statements to the jury in trials where the defendent faces a possible death sentence. 



~On Campus Today 
--------1 

12:15-2 pm 
2-4 pm 
4:30pm 
6:30 & 8:30pm 
7 pm 
7 30 pm 
7-9 pm 
7:30 & 10 pm 
'8 pm 
9-10 pm 10-11 pm 
11 pm­
midnight nocturne nightflight, wsnd · 88.9, donna rainone, best in progressive. 
free tax assistance program, nd accounting stu­
dents, Ia fortune ballroom. 
lecture, "sodium and water balance in diamondback terrapin" by gerald robinson, sored by biology dept., galvin aud. 
speed reading orientation, sponsored by reading laboratory, rm 247 madaleva hall. 
the spon­
1
u.s. 

slide and sound sho~, sierra club: a 20-minute 
intro., rm. 120, hayes healey. 
meeting rev1s1on of election guidelines little theatre 
workshop, job research workshop by sponsored by student affairs, holy cross, ministry. 
Iafortune 
Iaverty, campus 

kubrick film festival, "paths of glory" sponsored by cinema '77, eng. aud. 
lecture, "letras coloniales entre estana america" by prof. jose durand, univ. of california at berkley, co-sponsored by dept. of modern languages and dept. of gov't and international studies, rm. 120, hayes-healey aud. 
nazz, poetry reading, by sarah mcgrath, Iafortune rathskellar. 
nazz, chinese popular and traditional music, by sio-mei-lien, symong-shih, shun-lyn, chen ti hu, bluce wong. Iafortune rathskellar. 
nazz, poetry reading, connal mcgee, Iafortune rathskellar. 
I For those interested in philosophical questions (e.g., questions about human freedom, theI existence of God, the objectivity of morals, the nature of law) the Philosophy Department at Notre
I 
Dame provides a congenial setting for pursuingI these interests. It is a professionally distinguished I department with a large number of outstanding. 
1 teachers. 
I 
I For further information, come to the Department offering during 'Meet your Major' week-­MONDAY, MARCH 28 AT 6:30 PM LIBRARYI LOUNGE 
Fc~r commencement 



Ticket distribution this week 
Tickets for the family and guests of graduates at the University's 132nd Commencement on May 22 will be distributed in the Reg­istrar's Office between 8a.m. and Sp.m. Monday, May 2, through Friday, May 6. 
Envelopes bearing the names of all 2,177 degree candidates will be mixed together and the location of the two adjacent lower section rese1rved seats will be by random selection. The lower arena tickets will be prestuffed, and when 
,stud,ents pick up their tickets they will be asked how many bleacher ticktes they wish. Seniors can have a maximum of three, advanced degree recipients two. At this time, graduates can also turn their lower arena seats for their entire allotment in the bleachers, which will be on a first-come, first-served basis. 
Students must pick up their own tickets and will be asked to produce their I.D. card so that their names can be checked off against a master list of degree candidates. Students will also be requested to fill out a card asking them if they need extra tickets and if ncn-ticketed mem­bers of their graduation party would need University-arranged access to the local live telecast by WNDU-TV. 
Cards of students needing extra 
-=*The Observer 
Night Editor: Debbie Dahrling 
Asst. Night Editor: John 
Calcutt 
Editorial layout: Mike Richter 
Features layout: Dave 
o· Keefe 
Sports layout: Greg Solman, 
Paul Stevenson 
Typists: Karen Chiames, 
Anne Giere, Leigh Tunakan 
E.M.T.: Karen Chiames 
Day Editor: Kate Flynn, Barb 
Breitenstein 
Copy Reader: Pat Cole 
The Observer is published Monday through Friday and weekly dunng the summer session, except during the exam and vacation periods The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College Subscriptions may be purchased for $20 per year ($10 per semester) from The Obser­ver, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
tickets will be used in a lottery-type The growing list of degree

distribution of any unclaimed tick­candidates means that some stu­ets which will be held on the last dents temporarily may have to day, Monday, May 9. University accept reserved seats in the 
officials are asking students nqt to bleacher section directly in front of 
pick up tickets they will not the press box until unclaimed but personally use so that an equitable pre-assigned lower-arena seats can distribution can be made of extra 

be redistributed to them on Mon­9. 
9. 


Hey Juniors We'll get you off mainland USA for Senior trip '78! 
Please vote for us, 
Tues. Marcb 29 
vicki warren pres. vie yeandel v. pres. brian eronin see. terry donahue treas. 
Clip this ad, Juniors, and bring it to BridgeHe McGuires for extended Happy hour from 6-9 tonight. Half price drinks! Remember, you must be 21. 
GAME ....~~'"" 
NOW OPEN 
Hickory Rd. 
Only 
• 
PINBALL 

• 
FOOSBALL 


COLLEGE DAY 
SUNDAY 
Show college ID & get $1.00 off 16" Family size Pizza 
401 N. HICKORY 
TOWN & COUNT and 

31 N. AT DARDEN RD. "Where Pizza is Always in Good Taste!" 

:·········..········~········'



i Collegiate i 
•----------------.,. :. Jazz Festival : 
I PHILOSOPHY 1 .


! Ii April
Meet Your Major 
I •

1 • T• k p
I • IC et 1 • F • d 
I • rl ay 
+ 


I•2 i 
• rices • S 50 •
s. • 
1 • Sat. (afternoon) $2.50 • 
I •• ••
1 • Sat EVENING $4.00

I : • 
•

1 orcon~d 1 •
I Dr. Harold Moore or 337 O'Sha$) 7534 I • All season pass $8.00 •




L----------------11 
N D SMC Students-S7.00 •
. -.............................# 
.........,....'41~~ ~ 1l~--............... ~.,-.,."" ·'~tr.·..,.,.•._...._ ............. 't.it ....."'.~-~-··....-·,:·.~........ f,'f,·........t. ·..·t,·.,..... 'i,t...~ .. ~·--........ -.. ~-----'!"-... --.. . 
..~........~.................."._................~..~..------~--~~............................~~------......... 
Monday, March 28, 1977 the observer 
3 

Class election platforms outlined 
Eclltor's Notet The foUowlng are descriptions of the platforms of the candidates for Tuesday's class elections. Order was determined by l'lllldom selection. 
Senior class 
by Joe Bauer 
-~-
Wuren, Yeandea, 
Cronin, Donahoe 

Warren's ticket would like to be voted on as a unit, they said, so they did not even list which positions they were seekinB on their campaign posters. The said the election of their ticket will be a "change for improvement." They wantto give seniors an alternative. 
The purpose of senior class officers is to "make money and spend it on the class," according to Warren. They view their task as organizing unique social events. 
Although no one on the ticket has 
experience in student government, 
they consider this characteristic as 
an asset. Saying they are 
"psyched to do the job," Yeandel 
commented, "We're not bored 
with student government. We will 
tend to try to do different things. 
We're ready to take chances." The 
ticket feels they are handicapped 
because all the candidates have 
lived on the South Quad. However, 
two members of the ticket live 
off-campus, which they see as an 
advantage since so many seniors do 
move off campus. 
Another advantage of Warren's ticket is that three members' hometowns are nearby (two from Chicago, one from South Bend). This will enable: them to organize some activities for the first few weeks of school, which they said has been traditionally lacking in class events. 
As for. specific activities, War­ren's ticket wants to sponsor a wide variety in order to "break down cliques in the class." One of their prime objectives would be to schedule the senior trip somewhere "exotic and different off the main­land United States." They would also like to sponsor more trips to the Dunes, for example, and pos­sibly abus trip to Fort Lauderdale in the spring. Other campus activities they favor are lunch specials at Senior Bar, barbecues and happy hours held at local taverns. They said they would also like to make commencement and the senior formal unique events. 
To raise money, the candidates said they would continue showing for students on campus movies and concession stands. The ticket also would like to look into the possibili­ty of installing a pinball machine in LaFortune. 
Finally, Warren sai<;l their big­gest enemy was apathy. They want the class to know thev are serious about running for office and are excited about doing the job. 
flynn, MuJvihill,Kemer,Bailey 
Speaking for his ticket, Flynn 
said his ticket is running again 
because they enjoyed the job. They 
also view their juni\)r class leader­
ship experience as valuable. They 
are hopeful that they have learned 
from their mistakes and things will 
go smoothly next year. he said. 
Flynn said his ticket feels the 
function of the class officers is to 
give the class something to rt!mem­
ber. By unifying the class through 
activities, the members of the dass 
can look back on their year:, at 
Notre Dame and recall the good 
times at class social functions·, he 
said. 
Specific activities they would like 
SHAKESPEARE'S ALIVE & WELL& LIVING IN AMERICA 

to organize include picnics, possi­Donley, SuJUvan, Brehmer bly a canoe trip and happy hours. and Schlageter They are also looking into the possibility of a bus tlrip to the Pat Donley stressed the impor-
Purdue game next fall. Besides tance of class functions and social 
these social events, they would like activities "centered on or around to have more activities such as ' campus" to insure accessibility to Senior Masses, where the atmos­them for all the juniors. 
phere is more serious, Flynn "We realize that a good portion added. of the junior class won't have the To increase communkation with time or the money to take extended 
the students, the ticket would like trips or have the means to get to to make use of a Senior Forum, events very far from campus, so we similar to that used by this year's haven't planned many," he said. senior class. Concerning the senior Still, there are plans for a Junior trip, Flynn said they will make no Class trip to the Pitt game. decision about the location until the Besides the usual Junior Class 
class can be polled about their activities, Donley also looks for-preference. ward to promoting a ski trip and a new idea for a "Little 
Flynn did not mention any Brother/Little Sister Weekend."
specific money making projects "We are planning to sponsor aother than the usual movies and weekend where the brothers andconcessions. Howev~~r. he did sisters of Juniors are invited to stress that the class is not out to come and see the campus andmake money. The purpose is to become more involved in it than cover expenses if possible, and Jet they can during a football week-profits stay with the class end," Donley explained. 
members. 
As far as researching the feasibi-

Flynn concluded that he is happy lity of planned events, Donley said another ticket is running, since it that he is convinced that they are shows the class is not apathetic. all possible, and that he and his 
running mates would begin invest­igating details if elected. 
Junior class His slate has gained experience in hall government in their respec­by Eve Jehle tive halls, and the fact that all of them are located in halls around

McKenna, Flanigan, Fitzpatrick 
campus "makes the ticket moreand Frick 
~ttractive." 
"Another idea we want to im-Andy McKenna, candidate for . 

plement to improve communica-Junior Class President, said that tions between the halls and the · organizing "more class functions class officers will be the election of where people can meelt and mix in 

a member from each hall to thelarge number" would be the aim of Junior Class Council. They will nothis term in office if elected. 

be appointed so that we will not fall 

Plans for the Junior Class in­into the clique syndrome and the 
clude class trips to the Pittsburgh residents of the halls will have fair game and a White Sox game in 
representation,'' Donley stressed. 

Chicago, a ski trip, tailgaters for Donley is from Dillon, Maureenhome football games, happy hours Sullivan (vice-president) fromand class parties in Niles. 
Lewis, and Mamie Brehmer (Sec­

"The important distinction be­retary) and Mike Schlageter (Trea­tween our platform and those of the surer) live in Badin and Grace other slates is the fact that we have respectively.
done research on the feasibility of all our planned events," McKenna 
McNulty, Pace, Cisar and Ziemba 

emphasized. "We have discussed obtaining tickets to both the Pitt 
Stressing that "class officers 

and White Sox games and have should run on a viable system for found that we could g<et them with the best execution of ideas, instead no difficulty. We have also of the ideas themselves," the contacted the bus lines to deter­McNulty ticket has planned a mine prices and tentative dates", reorganization of class govern­he continued. 
ment, including the provision for 

"As far as experience goes, we two vice-presidents for the North are relative new-comers," Me: and South quads. Kenna said. "But three members -­
"Whether we want to admit it or 
of our ticket have been working in not, there is a split between the 
the University's public. relations' north and south quads," McNultyoffice with people involved in the said, "and it's come to the pointexecution of Junior Parents' Week­where we don't even know each 
end. We think that this will be other. When elected we will work 
for mocllern man 
sign up in the 
campus ministry office I03library 

Cisar of the South Quad and Tony 
Pace of the North Quad are to 
evenly split the responsibility of 
communication with the hall repre­
sentatives to insure maximum effi­
ciency of the advisory board. 
According to McNulty, this 
reorganization of the offices could 
possibly lead to an alteration of the 
senior and sophomore offices, with 
Reid's consent. 
Revitalization of the advisory 

board, according to Pace and Cisar, 
would be accomplished through 
constant communication of the 

board with all of the officers and 
strict attendance at the bi-monthly 
meetings. Hall representatives are 

to be chosen by the officers after 
recommendation by the hall presi­
dents. 
McNulty termed a major goal for 
the officers as "greater visibility". 
"Greater visibility" would be 
achieved through mandatory at­
tendance of all meetings by the 
officers, open meetings for the 
junior class, participation by offic­
ers in class activitities such as 
formals and a stress on personal 
contact of officers with class mem­
hers, she said. 
"It's a shame when the class 
officers don't even attend their own 
functions," McNulty said. "We 
talked to students who didn't even 
know who their class officers or hall 
representatives were. That's th(. 
fault of the students and the 
government. We want to revitalize 
the whole system to get the 
student's ideas before any partie­
ular activities are planned." 

All candidates maintained that . they decided not to campaign on 
;-.-:.-E~d-ito--'-r'_s_N_o_te_:_E..:.lec-ti=on::::s:....~...::o::_r_c_las-s-offi_c_e_rs_wlll be_he.:__ld_thl_s_Tu-esda__:._y::..---oft 
Voting will take place during lunch and cUnner in the residence haUs and in the Huddle, from 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. 
The Candidates 
SENIOR CLASS "specifics" before they receive adequate student input. With two months time remaining in the semester, they foresee no difficulty in compiling a list of potentia] activities for the junior class to be ready at the beginning of next semester. 
President  Vice President  'Secretary  Treasurer  
.Pat Flynn Vickie Warren  Mary Jo Mulvihill Vic Y eandel  Sue Bailey Brian Cronin  Tex Keffler Terry Donahue  
JUNIOR CLASS  
President  Vice President  Secretary  Treasurer  
Andy Mckenna  Sue Flanigan  Kathy Fitzpatrick Terry Frick  
Pat Donley  Maureen Sullivan  Marnie Brehmer  Mike Schlageter  

According to the candidates, the importance of Junior Parents' Weekend calls for a reorganization of the planning committee. The chairperson is to be objectively chosen by a panel including the Junior Class President, last year's chairperson and Reid. 
McNulty stressed that all candi­dates have had experience in class government. Pace, Cisar and McNldty have served as hall repre­sentatives, and Donna Ziemba, the Secretary-Treasurer candidate is the present secretary by appoint­ment. 

Sophomore class 
by Joe Slovlnec StaffReporter 
Bosh, Kalamaras, Jabour, Boyle 

Rob Bush, candidate for soph­omore class president, said that her sees "a lot of the platforms promising things they won't be able to accomplish." Bush stated he has a simple platform-to make sophomore year as enjoyable as possible" without making any "false promises." Bush expressed a need for more social activities for men and women at Notre Dame since "one of the main vroblems is 
[continued on page 6] 
Laurie McNulty Tony Pace Tim Cisar 

SOPHOMORE CLASS 
' 

President  Vice President  Secretary  
Tony Aquilino  Maureen Murphy  Anne Talluto  
Andy Herring  Ellen Dorney  Susie Meyers  
Casey Hammond Jose Marrero  A.J. Wood  
Rob Bush  Paul Kalam:aras  Rita Jabour  

Donna Ziemba 
Treasurer 
John Campbell Chris Ritchie Trish Bertke Erin Boyle·



......~~._..................................................................w~w~..•a~........a......... 


F*The Observer 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's 
The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters are the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and letters are encouraged to promote the free expression of varying opinions on campus. 
BoxQBusiness Manager Sue Quigley Notre DameAdvertising Manager Steve Bonomo 

Ind. 46556 Production Manager Karen Chiames 

Monday, March 28, 1977 


VOTE!!! 
Today Saint Mary's student body is being offered something it hasn't had in two years -a choice for Student Body President. The tickets of Rukavina­0 '.Connell-Hedges and Stolze-Baggiano­Chin are fighting the apathy that has almost become a way of life at Saint Mary's, and they deserve to be recogniz­ed. 
Rukavina and Stolze, by nominating themselves, have shown a willingness to work for the students. To be effective, however, the President must be able to show evidence that she has the support of the student body. Last year less than 15 percent of the student body bothered to vote in the Student Government election. 
!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! P . 0 . Box Q ~~ 
Observer 
Rapped 

D""ar Editor: 
lam addressing this letter to my fellow students. I wish to applaud their recent action concerning Tbe Observer and its petition. Enough signatures were obtained to insure a one-hundred percent fee increase next year to cover the paper's debts, inflated costs, mismanage-. ment, etc. 
Too many people ignore the 
DOO~ESBURY 
~~ 
711& LIBCRALS AR& STIUSORE1/80(/T Ri/888R.­8Cil.-, 7H& ({)~VA­STAMPI!W3?! TIV&s ABOUTPi4RNKE. /A/fiATA811JT THeY'RE TIRJ3£J OF SORCN­RIJ88ER.-STAMPIN6l SCN?! 
~ ~ 
.... 
.... 
'< :;i
c: 
ll> 
c:: 


capitalist convention of supporting with dollars that which one believes in. Not the ND-SMC student bodyl They have decided to pay double for their daily paper and all it stands for. 
As for myself, I am a member of the minority who opposed !the petition. I am ashamed to admit that The Observer is, in fact, my school's paper and supposedly represents the student viewpoint. What is the source of my embar­rassment? Dare I express the grounds for my humble opinion when surely the majority has already examined the facts and discounted them as insignificant? Well, hopefully, by listing my 
Many· students believed that their vote wouldn't matter because there was only one ticket on the ballot. This year you, the students, have no excuse. 
The position of Student Body President, along with the positions of Vice president of student affairs and Vice president of academic affairs, is the most effective vehicle students have for getting things done. But the fuel needed to run the vehicle is st,tdent support. By voting today, you can take the first step toward the much needed participation in Saint Mary's student government. 
The candidates' platforms are printed on this page. Read them carefully and make your own decision. Then vote. 
EDITORIAL BOARD 

Marti Hogan Editor-in-Chief Martha Fanning Managing Editor Bob Brink Asst. Managing Ed. Kathy Mills Executive Editor Maureen Flynn Editorial Editor Barb Breitenstein Exec. News Editor Torn Byrne Campus Editor Jean Powley St. Mary's Editor Katie Kerwin News Editor Paul Stevenson Sports Editor f>at Cole Special Projects Ed. David O'Keefe Features Editor 
Copy Editor Barb Langhenry Photo Editor Paul Clevenger 

reasons the wise majority will be 
able to disprove them once and for 
all and set me on the right track. 

First, I object to the gross 
mismanagement of the paper's funds resulting in the worrisome debt. But other opponents have voiced causes, so I need not repeat them. Second, I strongly resent the mismanagement of the potential we have on campus to produce a dec•ent student newspaper. The . operational facilities are already in existence and our community un­doubtedly possesses a wealth of talented people who could serve as staff members. Yet we are daily subjected to a newssheet not fit for 
publication. 

Editorials are. amateurish and 
the editors' attitude in general is 
petty and vindictive. Witness the 
unnecessary and belittling com­
ments tacked onto readers' letters. 
Technical mistakes abound and are· 
taken as a matter-of-course. This is 
a re~mlt of the same unprofessional 
attitude. Supposing one did decide· 
to overlook these faults, the news 
covered in the paper does not even 
justify the time it takes to read it. 
Unfortunately, The Observer is the 
only paper many students read 
during the school year, and its 
dearth of world news reinforces the 
intelllectual isolation typical of col­
leges and universities. 

Again, perhaps one could over­
look these numerous failings if the 
paper actually stood for what it 
claims to be -"an independent 
student newspaper." But The Ob­
servt!r is no more independent than 
Tass. If there really isn't any 
censorship then why is the paper so 
gutless? It never takes a firm or 
controversial stance on anything. If 
The Observer may be said to stand 
for something, it is mediocrity. The 
right to freedom of the press 
demands the responsibility to 

striv{! for excellence. Hopefully, 
the new Observer staff will recog­
nize this concept and at least 
attempt to incorporate it into their 
journalistic policies. 

Mary T. O'Brien 
Forum~~~~~~~~~~ 


St. Mary's SSP 
Stolze 
Bagginno Chin 
The only way that student gov­
ernment can work is if the student 
body wants it to work. The best 
way to tell you about us is to tell 
you about our stand on student 
government. 
We three candidates view stu­
dent government as a represen­
tative part of Saint Mary's entity. 
Its main function as a coordinating 
body for student and academic 
affairs can serve to inspire and 
unify Saint Mary's. 
As officers for this entity we are 
willing to make ourselves available 
to all students off-campus as well 
as on campus, so that a better 
communication flow can be achiev­
ed. · Our main objective lies in our 
willingness to· hear student con­
cerns. Our purpose is two-fold: 
reactive and proactive, to be aware 
of student needs and consequently 
respond to those needs in some 
way. In order to achieve this, we 
need a stable communication 
process. The various hall represen­
tatives, along with the Grapevine, 
can function not only to inform you 
of our actions but also to have you 
inform us as to your suggestions 
and opinions of those or other 
actions. 
We three candidates have in­?ividually had experience in vary­mg aspects of student government; Mary Ann Stolze is a former Vice-President of Student Affairs and former President of Regina Hall, Terease Chin was a Class President and JoAnn Baggiano has worked as Special Events Chair­person on Social Commission this . year. We each have acquired an understanding of the workings of 
student government. 
is at the peak of its progressive nature. We have a high quality academic student body, a strong administrative backbone and a compelling thrust toward innova­tion, improvement and experimen­tation. We believe that these as~ets should be taken advantage of man effort to help Saint Mary's reach its fullest potential. How­ever, we as three officers of your student body can only begin that development with the support of you 1700 students. Your concern and support in the student govern­ment can help define our function. Student government is what you want it to be and what you're willing to make it. 
The main points in our platform 
I'd like to expand on are avail­
ability, communication and in­
volvement. I feel the way to 
accomplish these three goals is to 
first look at the structure of student 
government. More student body 
representation through enlarging 
Student Assembly is a place to 
begin. 
Communication between stvdent 
government and the student body 
could be broadened by including an 
additional section to the Grapevine 
for students to write opinions and 
ideas. This would provide a direct 
line to student government of­
ficers. Committees from Student 
Assembly could then be formed to 
work on those ideas. 
A more centrally located student government office would provide easy access to officers and in­formation concerning the issues being discussed in Student Govern­ment meetings. 
One thing I'd like to stress is that thing~ take time. Cl)()peration between student government and the student body is essential for anything to be accomplished. We need to be involved and aware of the issues. An open and concerned student government is what we propose by building and broaden­ing the services student govern­ment already provides. 
Rukavina Hedges O'Connell 
Monday, March 28th, you the 

students of St. Mary's College have 
a very important and valuable 
contribution to make to your col­
lege. One very simple task can 
accomplish a whole year of com­
plaining cannot. What is it that you 
must do? Vote!!! 
The physical act of voting is only· part of it though. The real effort and meaning behind the act is knowing who and what you are voting for. Have you read the platforms, heard the candidates speak, or met them as they have come door to door?? 
My name is Mary Rukavina, and I am a candidate for Student Body President. My two running mates are Cathy Hedges for V.P. Ac­ademic Affairs, and Kathy O'Con­nel for V.P. Student Affairs. The three of us have worked extremely hard in the past two weeks, campaigning for issues, policies, and awareness. 
We stated in our platform that our position is to be as ,·epresen­tative of you as we can. The only way to accomplish that is to stay constantly in touch with you and your feelings. We don'tjust say we are going to do it, we go ahead and do it. For example; it was our ticket who suggested a meet the candidates night in the dining hall during the dinner hour, and it was our ticket who went through with it. 
We said we wanted you to hear our positions, and we gave you the opportunity to do so. 
The other point we made on our platform was the action we would like to take if elected. We have continued to mention our belief that the focus of the student government has been to self-limit­ing in the past, and we must shift and broaden it's focus. Our approach to action is to handle smaller problems that affect the students constantly. We men­tioned that some of these problems are: a more . reliable shuttle service, revitalization of the book­store, and expansion of some of its services, such as the addition of a newspaper stand with travel and news literature, and newspapers from students home towns, and use of the new athletic facility for forums with sreakers and concerts. 
In addition to these concerns, we would like to see student govern­ment direct some of it's energies towards service orientated pro­jects. Some of these might include: 
a St. Mary's community blood bank which would be used when any member of the St. Mary's community is injured and needs a supply of blood. We would also like to organize a specific charity which the student body could designate and organize fund raising drives for, we would also like to spend more time informing the student t body about such projects as the World Hunger Coalition. 
Win or lose, we are extremely proud of the fact that for the first time in about five years, there are two tickets from which to choose. We are offering the students here a choice, and hope that a pattern of involvement will follow. We also made what we consider the best attempt to reach the student body 
with our door to door campaign­ing. We approached the student body on a one-to-one basis with our ideas and concerns. We asked you what you thought and if there was anything in pa_rticular you would like to see worked o~. 
We gained a wealth of know­ledge, the kind that you could never achieve in a class room situation, and we had fun doing it. It was an experience that we feel very honored to have been involved with and one which we hope everyone learned from. Please show that you do care. make that first step easier for all of us by getting out to vote today. 
Monday, March 28, 1977 the observer 5 


A Time For Passion 
fr. bill toohey 

Every year, as we approach the week called Holy. most of us seriously try to make some sense out of it. We try to understand that "passion" of Jesus, his passover; and we attempt to deal forth­rightly with some puzzling questions: In what way was Jesus' crucifixion neces­sary? How could what he did so long ago have any connection with us, and in any way save us? 
For one thing, we are beginning to realize (belatedly) that, although the gory details of the way of the cross have been made the central point by a thousand preachers, they are truly incidental to the discovery that the important thing was that Jesus was obedient to the Father, accept­ing whatever was going to come his way, with free men acting freely. The Father had no desire for his son to die on the cross. The fact that he had decided to allow man to be free does not at all mean he wished free men to so misuse their freedom that they slaughtered his son. 
Jesus went to the cross because, if he was going to accept the circumstances of that historical moment, he had no choice. It did not have to be crucifixion (it Just worked out that way); but it did have to be obedience, no matter what the specifics. What we see revealed here is the amazing biblical trust in God that is common to all God's great servants. Jesus follows in that 
cinema 77 
Kubrick 


david okeefe 

Stanley Kubrick. Have you ever heard a movie billed by some studio as a Char~ B. Pierce film or a Michael Winner film oi a Joe Nobody film? We all have. But when you finally get down to it, the words mean nothing. No filmmaker can cl~im that he has been so consistently goodlthat crowds will know exactly what to expect when they hear his name attached to the name of a film. Except for one. Stanley Kubrick. 
Think of some of the most Important films in recent years, films that took a hunk of the human psyche that the Puritans in Hollywood had looked at as incidentals, as characters' accessories. Like sex stupid­ity, smallness, the confusion of an entire race of people or ultra violence. Then think about films that Stanley Kubrick has made. 
Like LoUta, Paths of Glory, Dr. Strange­
love, like 2001: A Space Odyssey, or A 
Oockwork Orange. Those are not just 
good or excellent films. Those are films 
that changed the parameters and boun­
daries of an entire art form. 
The Cinema 77 Festival this week will 
feature four of Kubrick's films. Paths of 
Glory (Monday) is the tale of a French 
soldier in WWI ordered by a crazed, 
ambitious commander to lead a suicidal 
attack in the midst of battle. Adolphe 
Menjou as the commander and Kirk 
Douglas as the soldier are superlative in 
lending depth and necessary distance to 
their characters. 
Tuesday's film, Dr. Strangelove, is a 
terrible, ruthless piece of Orwellian mad­
ness. Peter Sellers, George C. Scott and 
Sterling Hayden all the way down to the 
scrubs, the satire is frightfully well-acted 
and thoroughly convincing, so funny yet so 
likely. The plot concerns the consequences 
of handing the awesome power present in 
nuclear weapons to the carelessness of 
small minds. 
On Wednesday, if you're not doing 
anything Wednesday, you can always see 
the best science-fiction film we have, 2001: 
A Space Odyssey. Any work of fabulism, 
no matter how entertaining on the surface, 
must correspond to elements imbedded 
deeply in the human soul before it can hope 
to achieve any degree of success. This film 
maps the human spirit as it simultaneously 
sketches a kind of allegorical parallel to the 
human time line. 
The Festival closes Thursday with A 
Oockwork Orange, Kubrick's brilliant 
adaptation of Anthony Burgess' equally 
brilliant novel. It is the story of a young, 
violent punk who, along with his Droogies, 
terrorizes the streets of a futuristic city 
until the State catches and tries to "cure" 
him. 
The films reflect the diverse interests 
and dependable talents of a great artist. 
Editor's Note: The films will be shown at 
7:30 and 10:00 p.m. on the nights indicated. All rums will be shown in the Engineering Auditorium with the excep­tion of A Clockwork Orange, which wUI be shown in Washington Hall. 
unapproachable one; "the only way to Jesus is through Mary.") 
The misunderstanding of the roles of hte Father and of Jesus is deeply imbedded in our Christian and Catholic traditions. But any worthy theology of our salvation must begin and end with the fact that God is love. As Gerard Sloyan has pointed out, God is justice also. but there is no justice in the godhead that is not administered lovingly. To repeat, God did not want his own son to suffer' ; he didn't desire or demand some bloody satisfaction. All he asked was for his son to be true to him in an obedient and trusting surrender. 
This demanded Jesus' denial of himself and what was most natural to want -­survive. By freely choosing to refuse escape from the collision course he saw himself on with the authorities, Jesus achieved exaltation. What the crass reveals is the glorification of a man who obediently accepted death. 
Still, we ask, what does all this have to do with our own salvation? How does what Jesus did save us also? Well, for one thing, he saves us from missing the whole meaning of life. He would call us to live that way, too; for it is the only way we can be saved: by surrendering to the Father, and remaining true to that pledge of love no matter what it takes ... takes from us, or out of us. 
[photo by Jim Hofman] 
$200,o6o light show which featured green shafts of laser rays emanating from four separate "boxes". Indeed, the show was both musically and technically synchroniz­ed from the opening chords of the introductory instrumental to the final reverberations of the overwhelming encore, "Roll Over Beethoven". This sense of professionalism -the perfectly­timed strobe, the impressive composure of the group members in the face of virtual bedlam of the fans, the energetic cello solo -made ELO immeasurably more effective in a live arena than in the confines of a recording studio. 
The approach was so successful largely because it was colored with freshness and 
foan luttmer .lliilliiliiiililll;!illlii~~-~~~~-·iiFo.r 
mild renown in the ceramic art world. The innovation of moulding hollow ceramic sculptures is Bill's contribution to current directions in ceramic art. "Yard Art #3" was cast from plaster molds. Its departure from Bill's previous work is that it is concrete and not stoneware ceramic. But the medium is still artistically viable. The waffle pattern of the molded concrete is difficult to cast but may be appreciated by the untrained eye. The evidence of a struggle in the sculpture's evolution has been carefully effaced. 
The struggle remains now only for the visitor. All th~ pottery and sculpture are for sale, and very reasonable priced. Fifteen dollars could purchase any one of a number of earth tone glazed casseroles and urns. Entire sets of dishes are available at $12 a place setting. There are goblets, 
Jesus did what he did, not so that the Father would relent and relinquish his grudge, but so that we would relent. He did it so that we would relent now from our violence (revealed in a God of love hung on a tree); and so that we would relent from our resistance to the Father who calls us to himself. That is how Jesus saves us "through his death on the cross." He would save us from missing the whole meaning of life; from giving ourselves to the wrong god; from our blindness to the loving appeals of a God so amazing he loves us even when we kill his son. 
The cross freed Jesus for resurrection; it led to his complete availability; his being able to be with us anJ for us without limitation or restriction. Jesus died, and became the risen Lord for us at this present moment. Jesus reveals the Father's saving power to us now. Jesus saves us because the Father does, and Jesus is one with him. He is a unique way to the Father; not the only way. mind you, for, as Fr. Burtchaell points out in"his fine study, , 
PhUemon's Problem, the Father's saving work went on before the incarnation and would have continued without it. The fact that Jesus was sent is a sign of the greatness of the Father's love. And we dread to think what life would be like without him and all he reveals to us of the Father, whose life and spirit he shares with us. 
examply, the-obligatory drum solo was replaced by a refreshing stint on violin by Mik Kaminski. Mik took a melodic stroll through a bevvy of old tunes that acquired a quite different interpretation on violin: "West Side Story", "Somewhere Over the Rainbow", and bits and pieces from Jewish traditionals were introduced in his repetoire. 
Jeff Lynne and Kelly Groucutt harmon­ized with force and occassional brilliance, effecting a more dynamic sound on songs like "Tightrope" and "Sttange Magic". Lynne was especially noteworthy, handling rhythm and lead guitar work and the general frenzy of the performance with equal aplomb. 
It is difficult to cite high and low points of a concert that was consistently entertain­ing. In terms of visual and auditory effectiveness, the 1975 hit "Can't Get It Out of my Head" was the weakest and most disturbing number, chiefly because it exposed a nagging problem for ELO -the tendency to simply re-create the AM sound without the necessary risk-taking that aq more expansive and complex interpretation would entail. Fortunately, this detail was not a gnawing inconvenience, for the show never really lagged or faltered, primarily due to the col).siderate strength of the songs themselves. 
Perhaps the highlight ofthe evening was "Evil Woman". during which even the expressionless Lynne seemed duly inspired by the pride and excitement of being involved in a winning effort. As one young lady in a dark blue pantsuit was overheard to exclaim: "I like the performance all the more when even the band members are enjoying it.'' 
mugs, also. 1s aesthetic, and most of it is exquisite. . 
It is difficult not to rave about this exhibit or someone's artistry. But Notre Dame should be pleased they have Bill Kremer. He came via the University of Wisconsin, where he acquired under­graduate and graduate degrees. He teaches beginning and advanced ceramic classes at Notre Dame, and runs his own pottery, Open Gate Pottery, in Cassapolis, MI. 
Bill Kremer's showing of stoneware ceramic and sculpture is open 1-5, week­days at the Isis Gallery in the old fieldhouse. It is an excellent show, recommended for those who want more to occupy their minds and artistic leanings than just seeing the reflection of their faces in their dinner plates. 

~-~~-----­
6 
~~------------~~--~~--­
Class election platforms outlined 
[continued from P82e 31 that it's hard to meet people of the opposite sex because of the drink­
. ing Jaw. We need a place where people from the north and south quads can _mingle together." 
Bush proposes mixed doubles racquetball and handball tourn­aments, picnics in Michigan, and the circulation of a flyer asking students what films they would like to see the sophomore class sponsor 
I 
at the Engineering Auditorium. He also aims to improve commun­
r 
I 
~ 
ications by having "an address on campus to write opinions and requests on social life." 
r Bush concluded, "I can't seel how the other candidates can 
I ~ 
accomplish what's on their plat­forms." He expressed skepticism 
I 
that officers could determine very many definite goals until they see what they have to work with once they are in office. "We want to fie honest as possible," Bush said. 
Hammond, Marrero, Wood, Bertke 
Casey Hammond, candidate for sophomore class president, ex­plained that the Sophomore class offices "were created for organ­izing activities within the class" and the only political power for making policy changes is in "the territory of the Student Govern­ment." Hammond wants the sophomore class officers to create a better social life for sophomores since there is need for Notre Dame students to meet members of the opposite sex. He plans to provide activities between men's and 
Sophomore class election forum 
A forum to meet the sophomore class election candidates will be held in the basement of Farley Hall tonite at 11. 
All interested students are wel­come. 
II Public Service of tl>i< 1111 newspoper& The 1\dvertising Counc:U ltllJ 
Bennie, an army veteran 
with a seiVice disability, 
has his life complicated 
further by multiple 
sclerosis. He and his wife 
were without money. 
friends, job prospects. We 
helped him, over many 
months, to get his full VA 
benefits. And now, when 
he needs us, we make 
home visits. · 
There's nothing very unusual about this Red Cross story. 
It's the kind of job we do every day. Which is why we need your support more than ever. Help us. Be­cause the things we do really help. In your own neighborhood. And across America. And the wqrld. 
Bennie 
Ward 
counted 
onus. 


VWre 
counting on 
you. 

Reel Cross. The Good Neighbor. 

women's dorms on both quads. members, to give us your ideas as 
Hammond's platform includes well." 

plans for a sophomore class picnic, Herring expressed his belief that 
skating parties, and "dances and Notre Dame students "need a 
other events at the Stepan Center'' balance between hall life and class 
which he believes could be used activity." He calls for "more 
more often. Hammond also pro­interaction between the halls" and 
poses several off-campus social more extensive "use of the Soph­
events including "a dunes trip, a omore Advisory Council as a means 
sophomore trip to away football of communications for students' 
and basketball games, a trip to ideas for class activities." 
Chicago for a Sox for Cubs baseball Herring wants "more diversifiedgame, and last but not least, Happy activities for smaller groups alongHours in Michigan." 
with those activities held in theHammond also wants the -s-oph­past for the enti~e class." 
omore Class officers to sponsor service activities which he de­He also hopes to run a soph­scribed as "equally important to omore Christmas formal and a social events." He plans to create spring formal and sponsor a carol­a better transfer student orien­ing party, and trips to nearby away tation program since many transfer football and basketball games. His students receive little attention on ticket would also like to assume ''a their arrival at Notre Dame. He greater role in co-ordinating sup­also proposes ''collections for poor port for the Sophomore Literary families of South Bend for Thanks­F1~stival in our class." giving and Christmas dinners." 
Herring plans to emphasize com­Hammond additionally states one munity service. He wants thPof his most important goals is ''to sophomore class officers to encour­bring the Sophomore Literary Fes­age work at the Logan Center and atival under the auspices of the new campus-wide tutoring pro­. Sophomore class officers" so that gram where sophomores couldin the • 'future this could be passed tutor other sophomores. 
on to Sophomore class officers as a traditional event." Aquilino, Murphy, TaiJuto, Herring, Dorney, Meyers, Ritchie Campbell 
Presidential candidate Andy Tony Aquilino, candidate for Herring's platform states "our sophomore class president, be­main objective is to schedule a wide li,~ves "social life in an informal range of class social activities. We atmosphere is lacking on . the want to appeal to the interests of campus" and although we have a individuals and incorporate these lot of worthwhile activities like interests -into class activities. movies, plays and formals, "we Therefore, we have not listed don't have a chance to meet other specific activities such as Happy people." One of Aquilino's major Hours, trips and' dances. We will _p1~oposals is to help the Sophomore plan for these activities, of course, F<estival Council in publicizing the but we want you as active class F<estival and producingmorestudent 
Our marinated cl1icken breast combined with o~Jrr 6 oz. Sirloin steak. Mixed g~reen salad, potato, coffee OJ' tea and 1I2 liter ofHou:se wine. 
two cempleu~ dinners 
$10.C)0 
we take rese,vations 
4!Dr.~~~ IJgZtNm 

Sophomore Class: Variety Show 
Our ~rorld -an~d Welcom~e To 
8:30 :pm 
Little Tlheatre Admission: FREE 

involvement. and a sophomore banquet. He 
Aquilino wants more "commun­wants sophomore class trips includ­icaitons within the class. between ing a ski trip, an overnight trip to classes, and between classes and Chicago, and an exchange pro­the Student Union." Notre Dame gram with other colleges for week­
end visits. 

often has "three weekends with nothing to do, and on the fourth "Unless you really want to get weekend, you have five things to something done, your platform is do." Better communications iri the useless,'' Aquilino said. Aqui­planning of these events "could lino's ticket chose the slogan "We eliminate this problem,'' Aquilino Dare to Care" because "people said. complain but won't do anything. 
Aquilino proposes a variety of We're really going to get out and social activities including a Soph­get these things done. We are omore formal with more involve­taking a chance by investing our ment and publicity, sophomore time and effort but we think we'll talent show, Happy Hours at get good results for the Sophomore Kubiak's with a special Quickie, class," he said. 
Sajbel, Fremeau appointed 
Maureen Sajbel, a St. Mary's Sajbel, an art major, has done art 
junior from Appleton, Wise., and work for the paper and has also Joan Fremeau, a junior American been a staff reporter. Fremeau has studies major from Chelsford, previously served as a staff report­Mass., have been promoted to er and is presently a copy reader senior staff reporters for The for The Observer. Observer. 

CinemaM77J 
Stanley Kubrick Film Festival 
The Ultimate Trip 
Mar28 Paths of Glory 
Mar29 Dr. Strangelove 
200~:
Mar30 

A Space Odyssey 
Mar 3~ A 
Clockwork Orange 
7_:30 fl xo:oo pm 
Engineering Auditorium 
Admission sx.oo 
Lenten Penance Service 
Sacred Heart Chur~h Wednesday March 30 
~o:oopm 
CONFESSION FOLLOWING 
-
~­


Hang Up Your Hangups is an Ombudsman service which responds to questions received by the Ombudsman relative to the interests of the NO community. Enlist the assistance of affable and able troubleshooters by phoning 7638. If we can't help you, we'll find a sleuth who can. 
1] Are court reservations necessary for raquetbafl, handball, or squashl 
No but a reservation will insure a court for your use. Call the iss~e room at the ACC (8975) for a reservation no more than 48 hours in advance. 
2) Where.are some laundromats located within walking distance of campusJ 
The closest coin laundromat is adjacent to Bridget McGuire's at 1015 East Corby Street. Drycleaning, pressing, and mending services are also available. Robert's Cleaning Center, located at 1628 West Ironwood Drive is a full-service coin laundry that provides similar services. 
3] Can I order a birthday cake for my friend and have it deliveredl 
Yes, replies John Liebler, the student representative for South Bend's Dainty Maid Bakery. Call John at 277-2145 preferably two days in advance (one day notice is acceptable however) for on and off-campus deliveries. Eight, nine, or ten inch cakes, at $6.25, $7.00 and $8.00 respectively, may be ordered. These prices are at discount. In addition, on-campus deliveries receive a 50 cent discount. 
by Cathy Nolan Senior Staff Reporter 
The Indiana ,Province of the Congregation of the Holy Cross Order honored University Presi­dent Theodore Hesburgh and Exec­utive Vice-President Edmund Joyce at a banquet dinner last Friday evening. 
The dinner was given in recogni­tion of Fr. Hesburgh's and Fr. Joyce's 25 years of service at Notre Dame and in the Holy Cross Order. Prior to the dinner, a mass was celebrated in Sacred Heart Church. 
Over 300 Holy Cross priests, brothers and sisters attended the 25th anniversary dinner and mass. The invited guests were members of the six provinces of the Holy Cross Congregation throughout the world. Fr. Hesburgh celebrated the mass, with 140 priests concele­brating. Fr. Joyce was first elder at the mas£. 
Other concelebrants at the mass were ~ev. William E. McManus, bishop of the Ft. Wayne-South Bend diocese, Rev. Joseph R. Crowley, pastor of St. Matthew's parish in South Bend and Rev. Lawrence Graner, C.S.C., former archbishop of Dacc;1, Bangladesh. 
Rt · Paul Waldschmidt, C.S.C., pre~ .:.c.nt of the University of Portland, gave the homily. The Notre Dame Chapel Choir provided the music for the mass. 
The dinner, held in the east wing 

Graduation petition organized 
[continued from page 1] necessity of issumg tickets should the exercises need to be moved 
indoors. 
The five ticket limit is justified, said Gassman, if the ceremony remains in the ACC. "It's the best they can do for us, he stated, "Just with the size of the class it's pushing the limit.'' 
Gassman had proposed to the committee that the exercises be held in the stadium, with tickets to be issued in case of bad weather. The plan failed to gain support on the committee, which decided in­stead on an indoor ceremony. 
According to Gassman, providing adequate security for the president was not a factor in the committee's decision. 
James E. Murphy, assistant vice-president for PubliC" Relations and Development and head of the commencement planning commit­tee reiterated that there was little sentiment on the committee for an outdoor ceremony. He added that a change from "the ACC was unlikely, even if a large number of signatures are collected. 
Any Decision to move the site of graduation is now the rt~sponsibil­ity of University Provo:st James, said Murphy, since tht~ commit-
At Theaters Soon 
[continued from page 8] cont'd of the show will be decided by the directors. AI McGuire and Dean Smith are probably the best two college coaches in the country. When two teams are as evenly matched as are the W arrior:s and the Tar Heels, it usually comes down to a few key decisions in pressure situations that decide a game. If you can predict the director of the year in this contest, I believe you will also have your winning team. The envelope please. The winner is ... 
~~­-~-­----------~  
1  
Monday, March 28, 1977  the observer  7_  I  

Hesburgh, Joyce 
tee's recommendation has been approved by the administration. 
White stated that he had discuss­ed the possibility of moving the site of the ceremony . with Burtchaell and University President Theodore Hesburgh and found them opposed to. any change. Despite their stance, White indicated that he did not believe the effort was "a waste of time." 
"If we don't let them know there's interest then they won't do anything anyway,'' he said. 
White plans to complete the petition drive in time to present the signatures to the senior advisory council meeting on Wednesday. 
Women's sports needs writers 
f you are seeking excitement and notoriety in your life why not try covering ND-SMC women's sportsforthe Observer'? You don't have to possess extraordinary joumalis­tic skills, just be interested and 
reliable.. So if this sounds good to you call Laurie Reising at 6868 for 

of the South Dining Hall, opened with an invocation by Bishop McManus. Representing the office of the Superior General of the Holy Cross Congregation, Laurent Lecavallier spoke briefly, offering congratulations from the Superior General to Frs. Hesburgh and .TovcP 
Rev. William Lewers, C.S.C., provincial of the Indiana Province of the Holy Cross Congregation, gave the main address of the dinner. In his speech, Lewers expressed the Congregation's appreciation to Frs. Hesburgh and Joyce for their 25 years of work in the Order. 
The mass and dinner were one of the first to be given this year in celebration of Fr. Hesburgh's 25 years as University president. Fr. Hesburgh was appointed president in 1952 at age 35. 
Fr. Hesburgh, born in Syracuse, New York in 1917, first attended Notre Dame as an undergraduate in 1934. In 1940 he received his Bachelor of Philosophy degree frorri t,lte Gregorian University in 
n~'1le. 
After being .ordB;ineg as a priest in Sacred Heart Church in 1943, Fr. Hesburgh continued his doctoral studies in Theology at Catholic University of America in 1945. Fr. Hesburgh joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1945 as an associate professor of theology and chaplain to the war veterans. In 1948. he 
served as theology departmem chairman and in 1949 was appoint­ed executive vice-president. 
During his administration, the 
two mainr rlPvelonmpnts at NotrP 
honored 
Dame have been the reorg;tnization of University governance urider lay 
control  and  the  introduction  of  
undergraduate  coeducation  in  
1972.  
In Fr.  Hesburgh's 25 years  as  

president, 24 new buildings have been erected on campus, including the Memorial Library, the Radia­tion Research Center, Hayes­Healy, the Center for Continuing Education and Grace and Flanner Halls. 
Other accomplishments of Fr. Hesburgh's administration have been the creation of the Freshman Year of Studies and the Sophomore Year Abroad Program. Fr. Hesburgh, a supporter of the Pea~ Corps Movement, was instrumen­tal in establishing the first Univer­sity-sponsored Peace Corps project. 
He has received honorary degrees from SO colleges ani! universities. He nas also received many awards, including the Medal of Freedom, the United States Naval Academy Distinguished Pub­lic Service Award, the National c·atholic Educational Association Merit and the Clergyman of the Year award. 
Fr. Hesburgh presently serves on 19 boards and committees. He has been active on the national level in areas of civil rights, higher education, amnesty for draft evaders and volunteer armed forces 
Fr. Joyce, born in 'fela, Hon­
luras in 1917 attended Notre Dame as an undergraduate in 1937 and later studied at Holy Cross College and Oxford Universitv in Englanrl
-

are you......... 
Not Baptized and interested in becoming a Christian? HaptizeL1 and interested in becoming a Roman Catholic? Baotized Catholic and interested in 
rPr:eivinq the sacrament of Confirmation? Baptizoo Catholic and interested in( 
learning more about your religion? for information please contact the : NOTRE DAME CATECHUMENATE at r.,_ M" . t 
"'-!PmpUS lOIS ry
Campus Ministry . West 
M • 1 L"b D d" H ll
emona 1 rary P':W P~ 10 a 283-6536 , ~. 283-3820 
more details. Thanks! ~iiii:iii~iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii;_4111Ni1ry;;=:;=::;~~==··ii;~
·--··--------------------------­
NOTICES 

Easter Buses to Chicago will be leaving the Main Circle at 5:45 on both Wed. Apr. 6 and Thurs. Apr. 7. Tom 8338 for seat reservations. 
TERM PAPERS TYPED. ALSO, OTHER MISC. TYPING. VERY REASONABLE RATES. CALL 272· 8464 after 6:00. 
"EUROPE'..WORLDW IDE acade­mic discounts ·~ar round S.A. T.A. 4228 First, Tucker, GA 30084 (800)241-9082 
Will teach you flute in your spare time. Call Beth 8112. 
Accurate, fast typing. Mrs. Donoho. 232-0746. Hours ~ 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. 
WILL SEW RABBIT PELTS INTO JACKET FOR NOMINAL FEE. 
It's not a bear, silly -It's a bull (market) -N.D. Finance Club Mock Stock Market. 
FOR RENT 

Furnished ten-room house, avail­able last of May. Suitable for 5 or 6 
students. One block east of Memor­ial Hospital. Call 232-4412 for more information. 
Summer Rental and'!er next aca­demic year. Great house. 8 room fully furnished. 4 bedrooms, 2 
baths. Washer, dryer. Large lawn. Near Jeff-Eddy. 234~ 1972. 
.• 5-Bedroom house, real nice, large 
· living room and kitchen, fully fur­nished, close to campus, has burglar alarm, call Charlie Moore 272-7180. 
4-Bedroom House, furnished and 
$:140 00

fully carpeted in 1976· · per month. Gas and Electric not included. 914 Grandview. Near Col­
fax school on LWW. Call 288-7894 anytime. Terry Brown. 
-=-~-==---------=----:--­
Two bedroom house to rent. Sum­mer and or school year. 1 o 12 Eddy Street. S 120 mo. plus utilities. Call 
'Oddies Harris kat 232-8563. 
.Rent my upstairs $40.00 per month. Call 233-1329. 
Rooms for tent this sumrrler. Very reasonable, and just a few blocks from Notre Dame. Phone 277-3604. 
Excellent 4-6 bedroom houses in fine neighborhoods. On and off Riverside drive. Contact Mr. Gatts 234-6688. 
Furnished 4-bedroom house for rent next September. Phone 277-3604. 
Wanted! Summer Renters 5-bed­room house good locale-Excellent condition rent negotiable call 8436. (watch for upcoming announce 
mentsJ 
4 bedrooms furnished apartment'th' lk' d' t f
w1 1n wa 1ng 1S ance o campus
call William Hill, 232~172·L 
Summer Apartment 2-bedroom, completely furnished including dish· washer and air conditioning. Fully
carpeted. In nice are within short walk toN. D. contact Chr"is after 6:00 p.m. at 277-0953. 
QSSJ Je S
Cl ifi• d Ad 
LOST AND FOUND 
Lost a pair of tinted prescription glasses in the second floor women's bathroom of LaFortune. Please return them to 135 Lewis or call 6240. 1can't afford a new pair. 
Lost: 5 subject spiral notebook. Green. Please call 8686. 
Lost. Sapphire ring between Dl and North Quad. Sentimental valUe call Mary Beth. ~-5470. 
1 eyeglass case with wire rimmed glasses from village court optical ­Elm Grove Wisconsin. Found! con­tact 284-4552. 
Lost a silver modern pen Friday before break. Brand: "Aurora". If found please call Monica 7870. It's very important. 
WANTED 
Need ride to NEW ORLEANS for 
~a~~~':.:_a~_:~l_!_:_v~~~:.:_­
Need ride to and from Ft. Lauder~
dale area for Easter break. Can 1
leave Wed. Wil help with expenses.
4983
Please contact Cris 4· or Beth 
:_~~·-----------­
Need ride to NYC area to leave April 
4th or Sth Share driving and 
expenses. Call 8820. 
-------.-------­
Wanted: Marned student couple (one child okay) to live in, and be 
companions to 3 teen-age boys. 
Room and board in exchange. Would be required to cook--family. 
dinner, do light housework and do 
minor house repairs. Exchange re­
ferences. Call288-1411 or291-1814: 
Ask for Joan. 
FO·RSALE 

For sale: '74 Ford Elite, dark blue with white vinyl roof, AM-FM stereo, air, power steering and brakes, near defroster, 351 V-8. $3250 or best offer. Call 272-9895. 
For Sale: '74 Vega, Good condition low mileage, best offer. Call 8347. -----·---------­For Sale: Vivitar 135 mm 1:2.8 Autotelepho.to lens, with case, Sel­dom used. Call Chris 8208. 
69 Camaro, rebuilt engine or 69 fiat sport spyder. 288~2484. 
PERSONALS 

Class of '79 Junior Year Elections. 
McKenna 
Flanigan 
Fitzpatrick
Frick 
Birthday Girl Pretzer can be reached at 1260 almost any time today. Why 
not call her and wish her well? ---------------+ 
Coffee Cup Chuck· Thanks tor 
th' · Fl Th St b

every 1ng '" a. e raw erry
Daiquirites. 
Tanned and lovely as ever, the Pretz will be out celebrating tonight. For a good time, join her on her birthday 
C and G-Please 1tdero'ify yourself. 
Hawk 
--------------·­
B AND K wHo ARE YOU? 
J. 
I'"-That's riot all you are. ., Tick­
She's 22, she's beautiful and she's mine-Happy Birthday KAREN! Guess Who 
MEL-No RAISE for you! How 'bout a cut? Will take couch rental out of 
your salary. 
I 

The New Boss Lady. 
--------=-----~-­
j

Mr. Eggplant, He's done it again! 
Please no more! I'm egged out! 
I 

Karen Pretzer, friend to flying 
wildlife and all adoptees is celebrat· 
ing her 22nd birthday today. 
I ITo the Longbeat Key Girls from St. 
Mary's -The Passion Pit is lonely 
I 
without you. Please come back. 
.-j Love, Mike, Mike, Ralph and Jack 
In 3 days, we will stop BSing. Join the Ombudsmans Operation Bl'ain· storm. Call the Ombudsman (7638) for details. 
Nancy M,; Happy Birthday! Love, 
The Infamous Five and Dud. 
Shower the people ... and you do. 
Happy 21 roomie! Love,
The Bitch 
Happy 21st GONGA BUDDS Is h true you'll do anyth1'ng for 1.00?.
Love, 
Buff and Jod 
1 

JI This is clean-up 324 Lewis (the Pit) Week. 
I 

PATRICK CASEY: EVERYONE AT NO SAYS HELLO Af>,ID GET WELL SOON. 
__ --~---------­
· 
~ 

' 
~-~-----------------------------------------~ 
------------------,~--.-------------­
lrrSh fencers capture NCAA crown 
Gerard, Sullivan win gold medals; DeCicco named "Coach of the Year" 
by Paul Stevenson Sports Editor 

A national championship is an event which occurs only once in a great while. For the Notre Dame fencers, their "great while" be­came a reality this past weekend during the NCAA tournament held at the Athletic and Convocation Center. 
Notre Dame. who defeated· 54 opposing schools en route to their NCAA crown, was tied with New York University at the termination of regular tournament play. Both teams had compiled 114 points and were required to compete in a fence-off for the title. 
The order of the fence-off was to be sabre. foil and epee. The school which was victorious in two of the three bouts would be crowned national champions. 
Mike Sullivan. who captured the gold medal in sabre, started the fence-off against Miklos Benedek of NYU. The sophomore standout responded with a thrilling 3-5 victory, giving the Irish a 1-0 lead in fence-off bouts. 
Foil was the next weapon, an event which pitted Notre Dame's Pat Gerard against NYU's Tom Valijacic. Gerard never gave Valigacic a stab at a win, as the junior foil specialist raced to a 0-5 victory to give the Irish a 2-0 margin in bouts. 
Because of the back to back victories in sabre and foil, there was no need for a fence-off in epee. 
Thus, the Fighting Irish won the fence-off 2-0 and captured the national title for the first time in Notre Dame history. 
Gerard was probably Notre D11me's most surprising performer. 
The Irish fencer claimed the gold medal with 18 victories against 4 losSes during his 22 bout perfor­mance. 
The Notre Dame junior was matched against some rigid compe­tition, expecially in Robert Marx of Portland State. Marx was named the 1977 "Foil Fencer of the Year." 
In addition. Marx was ranked number one on the Olympic squad. 

,' • 
n 
Fourth place epee finisher Tim Glass, foil gold medal winner Pat Gerard, sabre gold medal winner Mike Sullivan and 1977 NCAA fencing "Coach of the Year" Mike DeCicco, are pictured here with Edward "Moose" Krause. [Photo by Gary F. Mills] 


Pat Gerard, left, out-dueled NYU's Tom Valijacic in a fence-off 0-5, to lead the Irish to their first fencing title. [Photo by leo Hansen] 

However, Gerard performed his first NCAA competition, defeating Marx 1-5. 
Meanwhile, Sullivan grabbed the sabre title with 20 victories while only allowing two defeats. Sullivan beat Wayne State's Yuri 
Paul Stevenson Winning the Hard Way 
The Notre Dame fencing team boasts many individual and team records. however, the feat they accomplished this past weekend probably stands out among the rest. 
For years, the Irish have had a superior fencing team. Coach Mike DeCicco's 291-32 record is testimony to that fact. Yet, the Notre Dame fencers have never achieved their long awaited goal. That goal was to be national champions. 
The Irish have completed two consecutive undefeated seasons. Last year they had defeated both New York University and Wayne State University in regular season competition. However, in the 1976 NCAA's, NYU captured the crown with 79 markers respectively. 
The NCAA championships only allow a three man team, one entrant in each weapon. Throughout the fencing season. each school competes with a nine man squad. Thus. in the NCAA's, a school neec only have three superstars, instead of a strong team with considerable depth. 
Notre Dame has had a very strong team in recent years. The depth that they possess has been difficult to match by any other competitor. 
However. each and every year. the Irish are denied their national championship. Why not try to change the NCAA regulations? Why not run the NCAA's like a regulation match, with nine entrants from each school? 
Many schools are against this idea. Aside from the time factor involved in having three times as many contestants. many schools are in favor of only having top performers in each weapon in the tournament. 
Many schools may have a poor fencing squad. however. they may do well in the NCAA tournament. ln the case of Notre Dame. their situation has been the opposite. Every season they do well. but when limited to three fencers. they do not p.erform as well as their season record indicates. 
The 1977 NCAA Fencing Tournament was a completely different story. Coach DeCicco and his Fighting Irish fencing team beat the 54 competing schools at their own game. 
lf each school had entered a nine man squad. the Irish may have been more highly favored. Yet, Notre Dame beat their competitors in a more difficult manner. 
When a victory is achieved through regulations which are more beneficial to the opponent, the win is even more cherished. The Notre Dame fencers performed superbly on the way to their national championship. Most important, they fenced as a team. 
The Irish fencers performed in a style which is truly representative of Notre Dame athletics. The national title is even more gratifying when one realizes the team earned their crown the "hard way." 
Rabinovitch for top honors. Head Coach Mike DeCicco was Rabinovitch had beaten Sullivan named NCAA "Coach of the only two weeks earlier in the Great Year." In addition to tournament Lakes Tournament and was also the victories, DeCicco, since becoming only opponent to defeat Sullivan head coach of the Irish in 1962. has during his collegiate career. compiled 291 wins while only 
In epee. Irish All-America fencer suffering 32 defeats. Tim Glass captured fourth place. Following Notre Dame and NYU The Notre Dame senior accumu­in the final standings was Wayne lated a 16-7 mark. Although State with 103 points. The Univer­fencing well, the Irish epee special­sity of Pennsylvania and Harvard ist did not perform as expected. University rounded out the top 
Capturing the gold medal in epee five. was Hans Wieselgren of NYU with The NCAA championship was a a 21-2 record. The second and goal. that Coach DeCicco and his third place finishes belonged to fencers have been working for Robert Frensom of Rutgers and since 1962. Notre Dame finished Jim Neale of Princeton respec­their season with a 23-0 mark. This tively. record gives the Irish their second 
Notre Dame fencers were not the consecutive undefeated season, only ones to achieve NCAA honors. and extends their unheated string 
Ray 0' Brien 

At Theatres Soon 
This year's NCAA playoffs have taken the form of a thrilling mystery with the viewer only sure of one thing: an NCAA champion would finally' emerge. 
The NCAA playoffs proved to be something of a variety show. offering plenty of action to its audience. Every team had its role to play. Kentucky was dubbed the favored giant. Nevada-Las Vegas were the western gun slingers who could shoot from the hip with deadly aim. The University of North Carolina at Charlotte grabbed the role of Cinderella but had to share the hearts of the audience with the courageous Marquette Warriors who were making one last stand for their immortal field general who was retiring from active duty after many illustrious battles. Last year's runner-up, Michigan, was a pack of hungry wolves, while the crippled team from North Carolina became giant.killers. San Francisco portrayed the young and the restless. 
College basketball followers watched this series with great anxiety as the plot unfolded. The outlaws from Vegas quickly put San Francisco to rest. and in doing so gained a lot of support a:s the outstanding team in the tournament. 
The script became more involved as the Carolina giant killers knocked off the behemoth Kentucky Wildcats. However, UNCC confused their role with Red Riding Hood as the Wolverines bit only'the dust. 
The cast narrowed down to four performers at this weekend's beginning. Marquette and UNCC. the two sentimental favorites. were to face each other. while the sling shooters of North Carolina were to gun it out with the Rebels of Las Vegas. The extravaganza was puilding to a climax. 
to 67 matches. 
All three Irish fencers performed like professionals. "Pat Gerard was the Cinderella guy of this tournament," an ecstatic DeCicco stated. "He had to defeat all the top seeded fencers in the tourna­ment during the final rounds.'· 
Gerard had accumulated three defeats after two days of action. The Irish foil specialist, however. was downed only once on Saturday to end the tournament with a mere four defeats and a first place-gold medal finish. 
Sullivan overcame the obstacles of Rabinovitch of Wayne State and Benedek of NYU to capture first place. "I lost some dumb bouts," 
' Sullivan commented, ''I'd beat the top seeded players and then lose to some of the bottom seeds." 
Although Sullivan was disap­pointed about some matches which he believe he should not have lost, Glass reflected on the tournament a bit differently. 
''The tournament was really a team effort." Glass explained. "Sullivan and Gerard were the best fencers in the tournament. They were also the best clutch fencers. They won all of their crucial bouts when they had to." 
For the Irish. one could not ask for a more phenomenal season. NYU returned their winning trio from last year's NCAA champion­ship squad. Yet, Notre Dame, undaunted. proved NYU could be beaten. 
Notre Dame will have their two individual national champions returning to next year's squad. Sullivan, a sophomore. and Gerard, a junior, will aid the Irish in sabre and foil once again next season. 
Sullivan's record stands at 100-2 during his two year sabre role at Notre Dame. Meanwhile, Gerard has compiled a 115-16 mark during his three year term with the foil. 
Senior All-America Tim Glass will be lost to graduation. Glass ends his Notre Dame career with a 160-26 ledger. The Irish epee specialist was also a two-time Great Lakes Tournament gold medal winner. 
The top six fencers in every weapon are given All-America distinction. . The 1977 NCAA tournament makes Sullivan and 
second-timeAll-America candidate, while Gerard claims the same honors for the first occasion. 
The fencing season has ended. Already there has been talk of repeating their feat next year. For now, however. they should just enjoy the distinction they've earned--National Champions. 
Curtain Calls 

In a thriller from start to finish. McGuire's troops. edged "the other North Carolina team" as Jerome Whitehead slammed home the winning basket as the clock struck twelve on the Cinderella team from the south. Viewers walked away pleased by the entertainment but claiming the ending was a bit unrealistic. 
The other semi-final match was twice as close as the previous peformance (one point margin versus the Warriors two point spread). The proverbial David's slingshot proved deadlier than the bombs Jerry Tarkanian's team threw up as North Carolina stalled their way 84-83 victory over Las Vegas. 
The frenzy created by the three point winning spread in the two semi-final matches leads us to the denouement schedt:led for tonight. lt is most appropriate that this grand finale should be staged the same night as the Academy Awards. lt might be fitting to present similar awards to the players and coaches after the Marquette-North Carolina game. 
The nominees forth~ best player might read Butch Lee and Bo Ellis of Marquette along with Phil Ford and Walter Davis of North Carolina·. Best supporting player would be a toss up between Jerome Whitehead and Michael O'Koren. Best player in a losing semi-final performance would be between Cedric "Cornbread" Maxwell and "Sudden" Sam Smith. 
Predicting the ending to this three week series would be no more than a guess. The .authors, whoever they may be. did an excellent job of complicating the plot '>n that viewers would be glued to their scat~ until the lao;! Sl'''"'"' The ultimate stars 
il'onlinued on page 71 







