
---------------... 
server 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's 
Wednesday, February 16, 1977 
Vol. XI, No. 81 
Burtchaell discusses communication gaps 
by Maureen Flynn conciliation" and said that the 
Campus Editor Senate and the administration should informally inform each other at an early stage of projects 
University Provost Fr. James T. the other is investigating. In the Burtchaell told the Faculty Senate administration's case, the projects last night that "in a University we would be those affecting the faculty sometimes feel that our voices are welfare or its interactions with not heard. That is not particular to students. this group. We tend to think that if 
Each of the two bodies should 
we are not consulted then no 
give serious consideration to pro­consultation took place." 
jects referred to it by the other, theBurtchaell was invited to address statement continued. Finally, thethe Senate after a series of com­Faculty Senate reaffirmed "itsmunications were exchanged be­preeminent responsibility to form­tween him and the Senate on the ulate faculty opinion-to representissue of consultation in administra­the faculty as a whole."
tive decisions. 
In introducing the provost, Sen­ate Chairman James P. Danehy 'Senate has open mandate' explained, "in the last few months there have been a number mis­Burtchaell prefaced his remarks understanding between the Faculty by noting that he spoke only for Senate on the one hand and the himself from his experience as a Administration on the other hand.'' member of the Senate and later 
Danehy said a Jan. 20 meeting experiences.between the officers of each group The Provost noted that the 1967 "reached no definite conclusion," 
Academic Manual, which produced 
but that Burtchaell had been the Faculty Senate, also "codified a invited "to-say anything he has to number of bOdies which were say, to represent his and the entirely composed of faculty, dom­administration's standpoint on the 
inated by faculty, or had a signifi­
role of the Faculty Senate in the cant number of faculty representa­members and it is not a legislativegovernance of the University." 
tives." The roles and interests of body. "The mandate of the SenateIt was agreed that the Senate these groups, Burtchaell said, did is open rather than restricted,"
present a statement as well, Dan­not cover the entire University but Burtchaell said. It is difficult forehy added, as he read a statement 
agreed upon by the Executive were often overlapping. the Senate "To address an issue Committee of the Senate. The Faculty Senate, he contin­that is not somehow under the The statement called for a policy ued, is unique because it is purvey of another body, and they 
of "continous consultation and composed exclusively of faculty are usually matters that have to be 

Black Festival features novelist 
by Joan Fremeau graphical interview with myself." 
She then told of her childhood in 
The Black Cultural Arts Festival Detroit. her studies in theater arts continued last night with Carlene in New York and later her work as Hatcher Polite, an internationally an actress and dancer there. acclaimed novelist, as guest speak­In 1963 Polite worked for the er at Washington Hall. Democratic party in Detroit and 
"This is my first venture (as a co-ordinated the preparations for lecturer) outside Buffalo since I Martin Luther King's "Walk for returned from Paris in 1971," Freedom" campaign that June. Polite told the small audience. However, she told the audience, "My speech will hopefully be an "I have always wanted to write. imagined or real kind of autobio-Even as a little girl I enjoyed making up stones, and was fascin­ated by books. I have always felt at home with words." 

In 1964 her "break" came, rather curiously. She planned a trip to France, and a friend in Paris asked her to write him about what she liked to do. "So I wrote two columns on two pages of 'l Likes.' He read my letter as a poem. and showed it to a publisher in Paris. Nine months later, in Paris. I had my first novel published." 
Titled The Flagellants. it is a "first-novel romance about two black people, love, and love-gone-­wrong," Polite explained. She read a few passages from the book. which takes place in the "pre-beat generation·' days of Greenwich Village. 
The main characters. Jimpson and Ideal, "fall in love, and then out of love, as they flagellate each other half to death," the author explained. 
In 1968. Polite wrote and article discussing Black Power for Made­moiselle, which the magazine edi­tors titled "Shades of Gray". 
After reading the opening para­graphs from this article, Polite read passages from her latest novel, entitled Sister X and the Victims of Foul Play. which was published in 1975. A short novel, which is part of a yet-unfinished manuscript. it is about a black man, Willis B. Black, and two black women. Abyssinia and Sister X. the latter of whom is dead. 
Sister X's real name was Arista Prolo. short for Ari~toc:rat Prole­tariat. a name which symbolizes "the two walks of life in the USA." ln this book, Abyssinia and Willis. who she calls Black Will, remem­ber their experiences with Sister X. and how they were victims of foul play. 
Polite is now an associate pro­fessor in the Department of English at the State Universitv of New York at Buffalo. where -she teaches creative writing and Afro-American literature. 

decided by other bodies,'' he tives to serve many functions," added. Burtchaell said, but there is "no 
The Provost noted that issues guarantee" that those consulted in which seem clear to the Faculty a specific instance will decide the Senate, may not seem clear to the same way a meeting of the entire Academic Council or another faculty would have. "mixed group." The health of the "Even when others engage in University benefits from having lengthy deliberation, and we're differing perspectives represen­glad we don't have to do it, we still ted and in different ways.'' he want our right of assent, " the added. Provost said. "We hedge on our 
"The faculty elects representa-[Continued on page 6] 

SLF continues with William Stafford 
by Marian Ulicny Canadian Border" described a field "where no · battle was fought,
Senior Staff Reporter where an unknown soldier did not die...No people kill or work here on this ground, hallowed by ne­"By listening, I know I'm born .. 

glect.
.listen together, be ready, you may be born." was William Stafford's "Freedom" drew applause from opening to last night's segment of 
)tafford' s listeners with the lines, the Sophomore Literary Festival. 
''lf you're feeling opressed, wake "Students get the idea we're up at four in !he morning. Most living life without adventure, but I 
places, you can be free most of the think not,'' Stafford told a capacity time if you wake up before other 
people."
crowd in the Library Auditorium. "We're all caught up in a cliff-­"I want to drawl this one," hanger of a novel we're living 
Stafford said before reading "With called 'inhale-exhale'. The best 
Kit, Age 7, At the Beach", a poem about his daughter. "I want to
way to attract attention is to fail to do either of those things." approximate the feeling of dis­
Stafford amused the audience 
placement as I go along. I want to with short anecdotes after reading 
induce a trance so that the first each poem. He discussed a thing that occurs to you brings the sequence of poems with an Indian 
second thing." he added. theme. He emphasized "In the Stafford discussed his writing Night Desert"and its opening line, 
experience throughout his read­"The Apache word for love stings ings. "When I start to write. l and numbs the tongue." don't have anything say, so I "When I was at Dennison Uni­
start with anything. a syllable," he 
versity for a literary meeting, a explained. "Then momentum man from the philosophy depart­starts. and activity makes things ment asked me, 'What is the 
happen." Apache word for love?'"Stafford "When I read, I look at my own 
remarked. "I replied. 'I have no poem, and I do whatever I can for idea. Of course, I'd be scared to it." he continued, jokingly adding. say it anyway since it sti~gs and 
"All of us can say these things so numbs the tongue."' 
easily. but when l read. !don't know how to punctuate it."
"After I looked at it, I decided that it's not a poem. it's only According to Stafford. he keeps a
a beginning." he continued. "So I "~urvival kit" of political poems on hand in hi~ travels. "One old
recently wrote 'The Apache Word relic saw me through the Viet Nam
For Love.· l imagined lll~'self embarking on The Aeneid if l can war. at least. it put me on the right ~ide ... he stated.
only keep going." The poem. .. Aunt Mabel. des­
S;afford's poem~ rdkdcd his travel~ across the United '>tatv~. cribed a "oman '' ho · 'gi,-es bright "Another Old Guitar" tral'ed thl· llo\\l'r'o a\\;1\ quick a~ a striking adventurl'~ of the in.,trunll'llt from 
.. nakl· ... l'<ll'l·luding "there are beach partie~ to Ala'oka. ",\t thl' 
.\11111 1\Jaf>l·l~ all <1\l'l' thL· \\llrld Or lin-national MonunH·nt Alon[! tiH' ICunlinno·<l nn pal-!l' 71 
-----~~--------~-----~--~~-~ .-~--.-­

\,_ 

.i...l 
the observer Wednesday, February 16, 1977
2 
---News Briefs--­
t==========================:-==== International Carter to cancel bomb sale 
W ASIDNGTON •· The Carter administration will cancel the sale of a highly controversial bomb to Isreal, U.S. sources said yesterday. The cancelation of the CBU-72 safe is in line with strong recommendations by Secretary of State Cyrus Vance and other State Department officials. · 
~================================:=;:. National 
One brother recognized killers 
HOLLANDSBURG, Ind. --One of four brothers shot to death at their rural home here apparently recognized the killers, the grandmother of three of the victims said yesterday. Gladys Leach said her husband was told by her daughter-in-law, Betty Spencer, that one of her sons recognized the assailants as he got home from wmk. ­
--On Campus Today-.~ 
11:45 am ­
3:30 pm ­5 pm 
5:15 pm • 
6:45 pm • 7-9 pm ­
7 pm • 

7:30 pm • 8 pm • 
8 pm • 
8 pm ­8 pm • 

8:15 pm ­
workshop, sophomore literary festival, library lounge 
sophomore literary festival, naomi shibab and sam hamod, library auditorium 
meeting for applicants in new york urban fellows program, with prof. r.d. willemin, director of placement, at placement bureau, room 213 admin. bldg. 
mass, for all world hunger coalition fasters, every­one welcome, walsh chapel ' 
meeting al-alon, fellowship for family and friends of those with a drinking problem, library, room 400 
workshop, interview skills, sponsored by the smc ca­reer development center, lemans, executive board room 
meeting, photography club, kodality demonstration by bill reifsteck, o'shag room 114 
:;, 

lecture, transcendental meditation program, o'shag, room 110 
lecture, "the world crisis of law and violence," by stuart hannon, international economist and foreign affairs specialist, sponsored by inst. for interna­tional studies, library auditoirum 
lecture, black cultural arts festival, willie davenport, four-time olympic track star and 1976 bronze medal­ist washington hall 
sophomore literary festival, william goyen, novelist and music composer, library auditorium 
workshop, stereo workshop, sponsorec by audio specialists and nd ieee, engineering bldg., room 303, everyone welcome 
concert, music for guitar and voice witli daniel bishop classical guitar and patrick maloney, tenor, sponsored by the music dept., crowley hall recital hall 
9 to 11 pm • nazz, ann moriarty, rex delcamp, mike tsubota, nazz 
r*The Observer1
.,_,, 


Night Editor: John Calcutt 
Asst. Night Editor: Frank 
Kebe, Jack D'Aurora 
Layout Staff: Rosemary Mills 
Editorial Layout: Drew Bauer 
Features Layout: Chris Smith 
Sports Layout: Ray 0' Brien 
Typists: Nancy Cueror.i, Anne 
Giere, Marianne Corr, Kathy 
Egbert 
Early Morning Typist: Martha 
Fanning 
•:ay Editor: Chris Datzman ~opy Reader: Katie Kerwin ) 
The Observer is published Nlonday through Friday and weekly during the surnrer session, except during the exam; and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of the Univ. of Notre Darre and St. /lkry's College. Subs<Tiptions may be purdlased for $18 ($10 per semester) fro1l The Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second Class postage paid, Notre Darre, IN 46556. 
$150,000 goal 



SMC to phone for funds 
SMC Coffeehouse Is, ComingBack!!! 

Drop in for a late night snack Coming Friday: 
T.R. Paulding Martha Paulding 
volunteers to look up the phone before the phon-a-tho;-begins. In numbers," said Pat Schirmer, return for working the two hours, chairman of the Development Com-students will be able to make one munications of Student Govern-5-minute phone call anywhere free ment. She will seek volunteers by of charge. If anyone would like to calling students at random. Stu-help with the phon-a-thon, they are dents will be able to sign up in the asked to contact Pat Schirmer at dining hall for the phoning a week 277-3427. 
·-----------------~
I e ' ' '
J 


I 
I I 
I
I 1 
untors. . . II 
I

want to save $10.00?!! I Call for your Senior Picture I 
I

appointment now-· I 3557 between 9·00 & 5·00 1 
Lb$$$$$$$$$$$$$$~
1 k . h f }} I
I rna e-UDS In t e a COSt $10.00. 1 
..----------------~ 

Membership entitles you to: 

1 
1_ BUCKET OF BEER (2 Pitchers) 
3 Sl.OO-OFF-c(itl'PONS 
I
lor FAMILY SIZE PIZZA (16") 
1PERSONALIZED METAL BUCKET -~ to hang permanently fro~;­our calling with name l!l and date of membership, etc!'._ 
Allthlsforonly $5.50 $13 V•luel 1 
Game Room NOW OPEN _Hickory Rd._ onlv piQball fOQsball 

COLLEGE NIGHT 
Sunday 

show co.llege I.D. & ge $1.00 off 16" Family size Pizzat 401 N. Hickory Rd. 
T&C 
31N. at Darden Rd 

NOTRE DAME STUDENT UNION & SUNSHINE PROMOTIONS PRESENT 
~---------------------~----------------------~----~----------~-------------------------------------~------------~ 


Arnold to chair government dept. 
ND-SMC HPC Dinner 
by Cathy Nolan Senior Staff Reporter 

Dr. Peri E. Arnold will assume chairmanship of the Department of Government and International Re­lations, Isabel Charles, dean of the College of Arts and Letters, has announced Arnold will succeed Dr. George A. Brinkley, Jr., as depart­ment chariman, effective Sept. 1. 
Arnold, a member of the Notre Dame faculty since 1971, is cur­rently an associate professor. He has also served in the past year as director of the graduate program of government and international rela­tions. 
In 1971, Arnold began teaching at Notre Dame as an instructor and in 1972 was appointed assistant professor and received tenure as associate professor last year. Prior to coming to Notre Dame, Arnold taught at Western Michigan Uni­versity for one year. 
Arnold studied as an undergrad­uate in political science at Roose­velt University and later received his graduate degrees at the Univer­sity of Chicago. Arnold, who has conducted research on the develop­ment of administrative reorganiza­tion in the national executive branch, has also written several magazine articles. 
Included among the honors Arnold has received is an outstand­ing alumnus award from Roosevelt University. He was also elected as a fellow of the Society for Values and Higher Education. 
Arnold will continue to teach four classes next semester, on the undergraduate and graduate . le­vels. Arnold stated he had no definite changes for the depart­ment in mind but did concede "that 
, in the past few years. much of our attention has been focused on the graduate level." "I would like to direct greater attention _!>n the undergraduate program," he continued. "This program is by no means a poor one, but in the past few years most of our energies have been aimed at the graduate program and conse­quently we have not made many changes on the undergraduate
level." ·· 
Pre-Law Society to hold meeting 
The Notre Dame Pre-Law Societv will be sponsoring its anllUal ··Junior Night" on Wednesday. Feb. 16 in the Haggar Hall auditor­ium at 7 p.m. 
The featured speakers will be Dean David T. Link. dean of the Notre Dame Law School and Dean l~ohcrt .1. Waddick. advisor to the 
pre-law society. The discussion '>':ill include the preparation and applic­ation procedure for law schools. 
Sophomores and freshmen arc also wckomc, although there will be <,pecial meeting for them later in the <,pring. 
Notre Dame's Hall Presidents' Council met last night with St. Mary's HPC for an informal dinner in St. Mary's dining hall. The sole business of the meeting consisted of a vote on the proposal to convert the red barn on the northeast corner of the D-1 parking lot into a social building for minors. The proposal, however, was rejected by the University yesterday. Notre Dame's HPC voted in favor of the proposal, but decided to wait to find out why it was rejected before actingon it. 
Brinkley, also the current direc­tion are hard to find," Brinkley tor of the ·Institute for International remarked. "After looking for Studies at Notre Dame, will con­almost two years, we decided the 
tinue his teaching duties at the best chairman could be found University. Brinkley, a specialist in within our own departments.'· The the field of Soviet studies, also procedure for selecting a chairman, serves as director of the College's Brinkley stated, involves, first, a Probram of Sovief and East Euro­recommendation by the dean of the pean Studies. college and then approval by the 
Brinkley has been acting chair­president of the University. man of the department for the past Brinkley came to Not~e Dame in two years. Prior to this two-year 1958 as an instructor in the period, Brinkley functioned as offi­government department after · re­dal department chairman for the .· ceiving his undergraduate degree standard six-year term. After his at Davidson College and his mas­
term expired, Brinkley agre~d to ters and doctoral degrees at Colum­continue as chairman until a replace­bia University. Brinkley also 
ment could be chosen. studied for one year in 1962 at the "Good candidates for the posi-University of Moscow. 

Donors needed to .meet 
, 


blood shortage in county 
The Red Cross blood-drawing station in the Notre Dame Infir­mary is being reopened'Feb. 22. as part of a campaign to avert a serious blood shortage in St. Joseph County. 
Sign-ups will continue today in Breen-Phillips and Howard, the two halls who have volunteered to provide initial donors. The organi­zation of student volunteer doners will proceed hall-by-hall under the overall supervision of the campus chapter of Alpha Phi Omega, a nationwide service fraternity. 
David K. Palmer, a sophomore who heads the campus group. said the Infirmary station will be staffed by Red Cross personnel from 9 
a.m. to 11:15 and 1 p.m. to 3 Tuesdays. Wednesdays. and Thursdays while school is in session. 
''The Infirmarv station makes it much more convenient for stu­dents who previously had to go downtown to donate blood." Palmer stated. "The gift of blood can only made from one human being to another." he commented. "and all blood is now donated on a volunteer basis. No blood is purchased anymore." 
Students who give blood can 
obtain coverage for themselves and 
their families, no matter where the 
latter live, should any of them need 
blood for anv reason. Palmer 
pointed out. ·.. This blood insur­
ance." he added. "is available 'to 
all members of a residence hall 
should one-fourth of the members 
of that hall donate." 
A campaign to double the 7,500 doners now on the lists of South Bend's Central Blood Bank was opened with a press conference in South Bend Monday. Spokesmen reported that the county's four hospitals used more than II ,000 units of blood last vear and that the need will soon ;pproach I 5,000 units annually. primarilv becuase of incra~cd open heart surgery and kidney dialvsis treatment. 
Thl' area·.., hlood needs have been met onlv by calling back 
t' 0 0 0 t \ t ' I t t I ~ 
-' ~ ~· •' .• • ' •' a _. •' .• o •.• ,,o,·,o •' •' ,o •' •' o• ,o ,• ,•,,·,,•,,• •'• •"••'·~ ,0 ,0 ,1l t,,l •• ,I 
donors to give more than once a year. While donors can give as many as five times in a 12-month, period without affecting their health, spokesmen said, a sound blood supply system, one which provides a steady flow of blood without high and low periods, depends on having enough volun­teers so that each has to donate only once a year. Fifty donors a day are needed to meet the county's blood needs. 
"Students often ask what con­cretely they can do to b.enefit another human being." Palmer commented. ''Giving blood is a tJ'ttique act of generosity -one which does not depend on a student's level of affluence." 
ND/SMC hotline has success 
The ND/SMC hotline, a student­manned phone counseling service, has been relatively successful, according to Mike Donovan. a sopl;10more in charge of the service. 
Approximately 24 Notre Dame and St. Mary's students work shifts of two hours during the week and three hours alternately on th~ weekends. Training sessions were held last semester for all partici­pants. 
"We get some calls," Donovan said, "mostly people who want someone to talk to. Some people ask for suggestons about different -things. I think we've helped 
some." 
The hotline was originally part of St. Mary's SHARE program four years ago. In 1976, the service was extended to Notre Dame also. A decision will be made-over spring break as to whether the hotline service will be continued. "A Jot of people don't have the need." · Donovan concluded. 
Lines .are open nights at 4-431! 
and  the  hotline  has  referral  
services.  
'•  -,o  o .o  o '"'  o  

Wednesday, February 16, 1977 the observer 
3 


Students have to register for Feb. parents weekend 
by Rosemary Mills process of being mailed and s~ould 
arrive by Feb. 21. If anyone' does 
Chairperson Nanette Bufalino not receive their tickets by that wishes to remind students of the time or has received incorrectly importance of registration for marked tickets, they should call Junior Parents Weekend. Name Bufalino at 6780. tags, college workshop informa­All requests for refunds will be tion, and details of schedule honored if they meet the standards changes will be distributed only at of the refund policy. This policy registration on Feb. 25 from 2 to 8 states that an'application for refund 
p.m. and Feb. 26 from 9 to 1 p.m. must be made before the weekend 
The closing breakfast, featuring and must state specifically what Tom Pagna as guest speaker, has events the refund is for. Also, if already been moved from the South tickets have already been received, to the North dining hall. It is the tickets must be included with tentatively planned to hold an the application for refund. additional Mass in the crypt of / Approximately 1800 people are Sacred Heart Church at 6:45 p.m. expected to attend the Presidential on Feb. 26. This mass will Dinner on Feb. 26 in Stepan accomodate the overflow of people Center, stated Bufalino. She from the main church at 6:30. added, "The dinner committee 
.. Bufalino announced that 80 to 85 tried to accomodate everyone's 
percent of the tickets have been requests for seating, but anydistributed either through the mail requests that came in after the Jan. Qr hand delivery to the students. 20 deadline are not guaranteed."
The remaining tickets are in the [Continued on page 7] 



Juniors .. 
today is the last day to apply for the positions of next year's senior bar managers pick up your application at the office of student affairs admin. bldg.) or at the senior bar tonight 
Editor-in-Chief 
of the Observer 
Applications for the position will be accepted 
through Feb..18 
Submit cover letter and resume to : 

Tom O'Neil 
P.O. Box Q 



\ -·-~ .•• ' ' ' A.,. ~ 
.... -~ ..,. " • .l . .... · -' • ~"t' • 

EDITORIAL BOARD
~*The Observer 
anindependentstudentnewspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's 
The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and St Mary's College It does not necessarily reflect the policies oi either Institution. The news is reported as accurdtely and as objedively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Hoard. Commentanes, opinions and letters are the views ot the1r authors. Column spdce is available to all members of the commun1ty, and letters are encouraged to promote the free expression oi varying opmions on campus 
Box Q

Business Manager Tom Fronczak 
Notre Dame

Advertising Manager Mike Miller Photo Editor Tony Chifdri Ind. 46556 
Thomas O'Neil Dan Sanchez Chris Smith Gregg Hangs Val Zurblis Pat Hanifin Tim O'Reiley Bob Mader Maureen Flynn Marti Hogan Kathy Mills Barb Breitenstein Don Reimer Martha L. Fanning Fred Herbst Tom Byrne 
Wednesday, Febru:try 16, 1977 
Give Up Your Blood 
There are some people on campus who are after your blood. Give it to them.
r I
They are member of the Red Cross and the campus chapter of Alpha Phi Orne~~· a service fraternity, and they are organ1zmg a blood drive. The local blood bank is not getting enough blood to meet de­mands. This gives you a chance to help another person. As an added benefit, donors and their families will receive blood wherever they are whenever they need it. 
Giving blood is neither difficult nor painful. You can donate at the Infirmary after Feb. 22. Sign-ups for volunteers are being held today in Breen-Phillips and Howard; other hall sign-ups will be held 
J

L 
later. · 
Give. 

!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! P . 0 Box Q 
I wouldn't die for the Dome 
Dear Editor: 
No, No. Jim King has it all wrong. There is no such thing as the typical Notre Domer. There is but a collection of individuals who habitate in the same general locale, and who frequent the same or nearly same establishments, both legally and illegally. The only general statement that one could possibly make about the students here is that there can be no generalities made. 
Sure, you can say all the guys end up looking alike and all the girls try to meet nice people at parties, but there are always exceptions to these .rules. 
For example, according to your article I am an immigrant Domer. I have not bought myself nor anyone in my family (nor do they want me to get them) any artifact from thic school except a diploma. Sorry folks, my family isn't among your "privileged" "Notre Domers". I am here mostly with the 'tide' and the tide is only 'in' for four years. The Notre Dame mystique leaves me with a sour taste in my mouth. 
I do think this is one of (if not the) best undergraduate educations possible in the country, but I won't, as someone very drunkenly put it at a party, "die for this plate...the greatest in the world", nor do I think anyone should--not even an alumnus. 
Which all brings me to the reason why I write this: there is so much illusion going on here. Anyone sees it the first time they come here, but they dispell their doubts by saying, "oh, well, I'm just a freshman; I'm the one who has to do the adapting" and it is 
partially true that they have to 
adapt, but I've been here for a 
couple of years now and it's a 
shame that the idealism which we 
all have is mutely absorbed into the 
materialist-oriented, and success-


s e rious Iv foI k s !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
Billy,say it ain't so 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiQrt buchwald 
~ 
:J 
a:l 
fB 
z 
0 
0 
0 
CMON, 808/ 
IT'S TH/3 PRES­IOENT ON 7H!3 UN£3! "-.... 
lf&Y, MAN, 
I'M /NTH£3 JACUZZI! TAkc A M&s5AGE, 
OKAY.'---­
Editor-in-Chief Managing Editor Asst Managing Ed. 
ExPcutive Ed1tor 
l"xt>cutll'" Eciltur 
Editorial Editor 
h'<~tures Editor 
ExPc. News Ed1tor C1mpus Fditor 
St Mary's Editor 
NPW'i Editor N('ws Editor Copv Editor 
Production Editor Sports Fditor Contributing Editor 

minded mania here. 
It strains my spirit that I not only do that which diesn't interest me here, but that I am forced to do so unless I want to choose another path of life. Mistaken impressions of student body views, along with promoting the devptional spirit (which breeds conserving the status quo) only keeps this uni­versity from moving forward in order to catch up with the times. 
Freddy Siebenmann 

Apology due 
Dear Editor: 
I was extremely disappointed in jhe poor taste diaplayed by the picture of SBP Mike Gassman on the front page of Thursday's Observer. It seems that a news­paper that is supposed to serve the community could make better use of front page space, regardless of how "amusing" a picture might be to certain individuals. I believe you owe Mike Gassman an apology, if nothing else . 
We Want the 
$$$$$$$$$$$ 
Dear Editor: 
Last night at work I had the opportunity to talk with Senior Class President Rob Tully. Need­less to say the conversation quickly got around to a sum of $5700 that the airline company whom the Senior Class had chartered for the Senior Class trip in November had returned to us because of an overestimation in trans[!Qttation costs on the part of the airline. That amount divided equally be­tween those that went on the trip comes to approximately $8 a piece. That $5700 does not belong to the Senior Class. It belongs to those that went on the trip. · 
Rob did make this statement: If a petition was presented to him as well as the other officers of the Senior Class with the signatures of a majority of those that went on the trip. then they would reconsider that $8 will be returned to each person who went on the trip. I intend to hold him to that state­ment. 
Mr. Billy Carter Plains, Ga. 
Dear Billy, 
Ijust read in the newspapers that you have signed up with a high­powered agent from Nashville, Tennessee, to represent you in the area of personal appearances and the media. Your agent claimes you're the hottest personality in American and he's going to pack­age you and make you a potful of money. 
Say it ain't so Billy. Say you ain't sold out for a mess of pork chops. You were the greatest free spirit we had in this country. As far as we working stiffs were concerned you were the first frue hero to come along in decades. We identified with you Billy Boy. All you seemed to need was a can of beer and an oil barrel to sit on, and you could ~;pit at the world. 
You told them dumb newspaper people anything they wanted to hear. Your gas station was a beacon of truth which lit the skies or"a new South. You didn't give a hoot for Washington or all them big shots who were snickering at you behind your back. You made jackasses out of them at the Inauguration, and we were count­ing on you to make jackasses out of them for the next four years. 
You know why, Billy? Because we knew you couldn't be bought. People in bars all over America said. "Jimmy may not be able to save the country. but Billy will." 
So when I read you signed up with some outfit called ' Top Billing. Inc.," I couldn't believe it. 
Do you have any idea what they're going to do to you? Look what the William Morris Agency did to Mark Spitz. They had him selling milk. J'hat's what I said, Billy. MILK! Suppose your agent signs you up to become the spokesman for the dairy industry? Do you know what that fOUid do for your image? You're not only going to have to push the stuff on TV commercials, but according to the taw you're going to hve to drink it when you're not on TV. Think of it, 
We voted our officers in and they must be made responsive to our demafl'l<: 
I've talked with enough people that' went on the trip who would rather use their $8 for purposes other than that which was decided for them. Think about it. Ifenough of you decide you would like $8--and I would like to talk to those 
. of you who don't like $8--then sign the eetition. When was the last time you could sign your name to a piece of paper and be relatively assured of gettng $8? Now is the time to take action. Don't have that "let the other guy sign it" attitude. 
The more that sign the petitiLn, the stronger a case we can present. Lame duck officers still have no right not to be accountabi: ~o their constituents. Sign the petitiOn and help ~et your $8 back. 
Billy, they're going to make you consume a quart of milk a day. 
You saw what they did to Joe Namath when they packaged him. They made him dress in w.w1en' s nylon pantyhose. How are you going to face the boys back in Plains after you've done a panty­hose commercial? Everyhard hard­hat in America will turn against you. 
And what about O.J. Simpson? Suppose they sign you up to run through airports with your suitcase and jump over barriers so you can rent a Hertz car? You're just not incondition for that sort of thing, Billy. That could kill you before you got the keys to the car. 
Besides commercials, your agent ain't going to let you talk to newspapermen any more for free. He's going to charge for every word you utter You're going to wind up in Reader's Digest telling people how you learned to love the FBI and found God. They'll have you doing pieces for the ladies' Horne Journal on your favorite chicken recipes, and Family Circle wil probably name a diet after you. 
Th~y'll book you at state fairs and have you play a Yankee carpetbagger in the sequel of "Roots." Everyone will own a piece of you and you'll be working so hard for your agent you won't have time to go fishing or dig for earthworms or even roast a bag of peanuts. 
Before you know it, Billy, you'll be escorting Hollywood starlets to motion picture premiers and hav­ing your photo taken with Raquel. Welch and Ann-Margret. 
And then you'll wind up putting Aqua Velvet on)'ourself and some girl will slap your face and they'll make you say, "Thank you, I needed that!" 
Yes, Billy 'Boy, they'll make you rich, but they'll break your heart. I'm pleading with you. Us working people have always looked up to you because you were your own man. I ask you, Billy, what profiteth a man if he gains the world's riches but loses his six-· pack of beer? 
Copies of the petition will be 
available starting Thursday, Febru­ary 8 at three locations: on the Notre Dame Campus in Sandy Dryja's room, 203 Farley; on the St. Mary's campus in Mary Beth Weber's room 227 LeMans; Final­ly, at Nickie's--that should give most of you a chance to sign it and I think most people know its loca­tion. Just ask the bartender if you could sign the petition and he'II be 
glad to oblige. 
Remember, on Thursday sign 
your name, sign your ID number 
and I believe by Saturday we will 
have a majority. Take. out a little 
time and you may become $8 richer 
before you know it. Thank you. 
Chris Koslow 


MR. PRffSI-IJJ&U, I NWJ AN(JTHER. OENT, BOB C/1/fl!UOI< MYNEXTOIAT! CAN'T COME I CAN'TREMeMBER TJ.IE TO 7H& T&/..&-SONG, 8IfT IT'S FR!JM PHON& JIJST 7HifrAlBUMt!JIICH H/I.S NOW. MAY AlL liT UP I H&t.P YOIJ 7 fR/JM 8&/IIN[J.. 


--~~-------------------------------------------~----­
Wednesday, February 16, 1977 
the observer 
5 


When the Wax Comes Off 
by FR. BILL TOOHEY 
keeper would display art pieces "sine "What-I do from here on out," says There's little doubt that Alex Haley's cera." without wax. Senator Humphrey. "can't be self-serving. Roots captured the interest of practically That graphic illustration really does in terms of ambition. I'm going to be a lot the whole country. There·s something seem to capture what we mean by more independent. I'm not planning on 
about getting to the bottom of things that "sincere." And when we honestly look, running for re-election. I'm not going to fascinates us all. For a long time. I've had we can see instances in our own lives when be making choices because I think. 'Well. a "root" thing about words and familiar we cover over reality with all kinds of wax. this will get me some votes from a sayings. with an abiding interest in facade, phoniness. particular category of people.' " 
discovering the primitive practice or an­It's .a beautiful thing to encounter a Gannon notes how Humphrey-watchers cient custom from which they derive. person who is truly sincere. It's been in the Senate have sensed the difference Take the drinking toast: "Here's mud in happening lately in the U.S. Senate to already. "When he was going after the you eye." I've never been able to trace its those who meet Hubert Humphrey. holy g~ail. he was always suspect. He no origin; but several years ago it occurred There's been a profound transformation in longer has that burden. When he speaks to me that it just might come from the New the man; and not just because the cancer now. it is as a man who has no other place Testament scene; when Jesus cures the surgery and chemotherapy treatments to go. And when he speaks. very few blind man by smearing mud in his eyes. have reduced him to a mere shadow of his people leave the floor. and others begin 
Since that action lead to such a marvelous former self. a shocking appearance that drifting in." 
happening. why shouldn't a wish for good prompts startled second looks from all who That's got to be an exhilarating feeling ­things to a friend take the form, "Here's a see him. not having to play all the games that seem toast to you; I drink to your health; here's No. the change is in the person. He is so necessary in order to score success mud in your eye.'' the same "Happy Warrior," still espous­points. I can't help thinking how great it Everytime I run into a scripture scholar I ing the politics of hope with that strong would be if we could be free enough to be ask about that drinking toast, and the voice and dynamic style. But something sincere like that... with ourselves and with possible connection with the miracle scene. has happened. He seems like a man free at one another. Why wait till it's so late in Not one has been able to solve the riddle last. He knows he is dying. He knows he life. I keep asking myself, until you have for me. though several have been intrigued will not be running for office (any office) cancer like Humphrey or· you're on your with my theory. Anyway, I'd like to think ever again. "He knows he is free of the last legs? But then I realize that it's it's true; and have to confess that, if demands and the constraints of those because it's so hard for any of us to reveal wrong. I hope I don't find out about it just seeking higher office," James P. Gannon ourselves without wax: ·we're protecting yet. recently wrote in the Wall Street Journal. our position, our job, our status, our 
Word etymologies are also fascinating. •'free to speak his conscience more clearly. comfort, our role. our front. My favorite is "sincere." It comes from free of needing always to think of the In so many of our relationships with one two Latin Words (sine cera) that mean wishes of those he counted on. who another, we're not much different than Ron "without wax." It all stems from the abandoned him in the clutch. And finally. Ziegler used to be in one of his press unethical practice_ in ancient times of using he is free of the suspicion and jealousy that briefings. There's a lot of wax, facade, wax to cover up cracks and imperfections in attach to any politician who's believed to veneer, double-talk. obfuscation (that's a statues. A reputable sculptor or shop-be racing for the top." good word. too; it means "to confuse. 

The Little Train That Could....almost! 
by TIM O'REILEY cannot meet its overhead on ''the Little 
Train That Could." it has little difficulty in 
In this age of planned obsolescence and supporting a profitable freight line which contr•ved expendability, it would be com­pays for itself through lucrative services to forting to believe that there are still the industrial giants of the Windy City. institutions which are weathering the surge When the South Shore goes out of of "future shock" by virtue of their business this spring, the citizens of timeless appeal and practical convenience Northern Indiana, as well as the students to the public. of Notre Dame and St. Mary's will lose a 
Unfortunately, one such traditional in­valuable and convenient means of trans­stitution of the South Bend community portation. On an average weekend, for appears to be headed for the tragic example, the electric is crowded with consequence of an economic society: on townies on big-city shopping sprees and April 8, the Interstate Commerce Commis­students bound for the homes of relatives sion will most certainly rule to discontinue or friends. The terminal on Washington service of the famous South Shore Line, Avenue boasts the cheapest rates in town: "The Little Train That Could." . a mere $3.10 will take the thrifty traveler to 
Well, almost could. After countless the heart of Chicago, where the shuttle glorious years of passenger accomodation system awaits to transport inter-city pas­on the line from South Bend. Michigan sengers, while a round trip goes for only City. Hammond, Hegwich and Gary to the $6.10. Fare to Hegwich, a station about IS terminal in Chicago, the rustic, antiquated minutes south of the metropolis, costs electric must succumb to financial woes $2.70. that the strongest public protest cannot The ride is pleasant enough, if a bit alleviate. Last year alone, the Chessie jolting at times. The rather dismal scenery System. owners of the C&O and 8&0 of the surrounding area, from the bleak, railroads. withstood a 21/2 million dollar imposing confines of the Indiana State loss on the South Shore pasenger line Prison to the polluted skies of Midwstern alone. .,... steel centers, is offset by the charm of the 
One of the conductors on ''the vomit little train itself. Replete with an old Comet" (as it is affectionately referred to bubble water-cooler and rickety frame by Notre Dame clintele) sees the situation woodwork, the coach rocks back and forth as regrettable but unavoidable, "Al­with relaxing effect. The engineer has no though the service is convenient and fairly qualms about picking up any prospective popular. the company just can't support it passenger that might hail him down at an any longer .. even Amtrak. a much larger intersection; nonetheless, the ride doesn't operation, runs into trouble financially with take much longer than a comparable auto their pasenger lines." trip, and usually reaches the final destina­
Whereas the Chessie System to Chicago tion within two hours. Leaving Washing-

FR. TOOHEY 
bewilder, obscure, keep in the dark"). 
A candidate for Student Body President came to see me today. He said that the thing he dreads most, should he be elected, is trying to communicate with administrators. "They're so seldom completely candid with you," he said. "Their word~o rarely reveal what's really in their he~s; there's so little sincerity." 
Well, they're not the only ones.. We all can profitably examine our consciences on that. Might not be a bad project for Lent: to prayerfully struggle for at least advance in becoming "sinecera." 

ton station in South Bend three times daily (at 6:10 a.m., 7:55 a.m., and 7:35 p.m. Chicago time), the South Shore Line averages a speed of approximately 45 mph. an serves roughly 1,200 commuters daily. 
The general public is more.than annoyed at the imminent death of a trusted friend, and has for some time now forestalled the closing of the line with various petitions and protests. Unfortunately, such heroic efforts cannot maintain a tradition whose inexpense and convenience make it highly susceptible to economic extinction in today's intlationary transit svstem. Both conductors on the Saturday ~orning train agreed: "Even though it might tempor­arily put me out of a job, the line should close down. It's simply become obsolete. mainly due to lack of public subsidy." 
Thus ends the legend of "The Little Train That Could." the South Shore electric which first obtained its name bv overcoming insurmountable financial dif­ficulties back in 1945 only to die a pauper's death in 1977. 

VI 
0 
....... 
0 
...:::: 
~
-


r 
6 ___:t~~~~le~~o~b~s~e~r~v~e~r~__w__:_e_dn_:e:..:.s.:...da~y~,_F_e_b_ru_a....:ry:-16...:..,_1_9_77 
No USC trip rebates despite airline discount 
by Dal·id O'Keefe -Staff Reporter 

. Despite a number of protests from both seniors and juniors who went on the senior trip. there will be no rebate to the students as the result of the $5700 returned to the Senior Trip Committee by United Airlines. 
According to Ken Girouard, Sen­ior Class Secretary, the decision to keep the money in the class treasury was made by the four class officers with the advice of Assistant Director of Student Activities John Reid. The officers were also acting upon a recommendation of the Senior Advisory Council which voted in two weeks ago to keep the money. 
According to Senior Class Vice­President Darlene Palma, the money will be used to defray the cost of future class activities and to finance activities not previously planned by the class. The money will not be used to defray any debt, because, according to class Trea­surer John Donahue, there is none. 
"I'm a pretty hot pony about it," commented Robert Hogan, a senior who went on the trip. "I think they what they did might have been practical, but it certainly wasn't equitable." 
Another senior who made the trip, William Signorelli, said, "I think they should have consulted the people who went as a group and Jet them vote as a grop regarding what should be done with the money.'' 
Sean Farrell, another senior who made the California trip, doesn't believe that the money should be so used. "I don't see any connection between the trip and the other activities,'' said-Farrell. ''Since the class didn't financially oblige themselves, they shouldn't take the money now.. All they did was provide a service by getting the group rate, and that's where you have to draw the line." 
Palma disagreed, contending tht the senior class has a legitimate right to use the money for other activities, despite the fact that they may not be attended by those who paid for the trip. 
"It's a pretty hard thing tosay that they won't participate in Senior Week, here the Senior Fellow or go to the Prom," Palma said. 
SHe went on to explain that through participation in these acti­vities, the costs of which willbe lowered as a result of the rebate, seniors will be able to indirectlv enjoy the benefits of the rebate. ­
Consultation not always possible 
[Continued from page 1] 

representatives. We don't like to feel that decisions were made in our total absence." 
Burtchaell said he is occasionally surprised after consultation with a number of groups to be told that he didn't consult "The Facultv. We couldn't get anything done if we did," he stated. 
"It is impossible for me to initiate programs with widespread support unless all constituencies of the University have had a hand in their making," the Provost noted. "We have to have some trust in those we choose to make deci­sions." 
How could the administration exist or get anything done, Burt­chaell asked, if everything it was doing might affect faculty or stu­dents came to the Senate? 
"There are times when the Facultv Senate seems to be the most ~ppropriate body or the only body to approach," he continued. "At other times the mandate of another body is so clear" that it 
is consulted. "Other bodies with faculty on them haven't shown a disposition to consult the Faculty Senate," Burtchaell stated. 
"Sometimes I have asked the Senate to consider matters for me," the Provost said. "I hope it continues. I have a high respect for what you are doing." Burtchaell noted that the Senate has matured as an organization since its begin­ning ten years ago. 
"I assure you that we--and I can speak for the administration here-­would like to enjoy good relations with the Senate," he added. "We wouldn't want neglect to seem like reluctance on the part of the administration to consult the Sen­
ate." 

Burtchaell said officers often feel as if they are missing the opinions of others they should talk to, "But you have to draw a line somewhere and it's an arbitrary line." 
The Provost said the officers were grateful for the Senate offi­cers' willingness to consult with them. 
Prof. Paul Kenny observed that the Senate has experienced a sense of frustration because "its con­cerns range wde and are paralleled at many levels. The Provost's office only seems to consult us when we are the only body concerned--in matters of widows, orphans and graves." 
Burtchaell admitted the point was well-taken. "We have to find a workable point between never and ,always,'' he said. 
Resolutions passed 

In other business, the Senate unanimously passed resolutions to ~end copies of the American asso­ciation of University Professors (AAUP) report on faculty salaries for 1974-75 and 1975-76 to the University Budget Priorities Com­mittee and the board of Trustees. 
Danehy read a letter from Uni­versity President Fr. Theodore Hesburgh which assured the Sen­ate that the use of faculty self-eval­uation forms is "voluntary both within the departments and for individuals." 
Cavanaugh VP awarded grant for study in England 
by Jean Powley Staff Reporter 

Joseph M. Hughes, vice presi­dent of Cavanaugh Hall and senior chemical engineering major, has been awarded a Marshall scholar­ship for two years of graduate study in Great Britain. The Hammond, Ind. resident is one of 30 students chosen nationwide to participate in the program. 
Hughes said he hopes to pursue a graduate degree in medical engineering at either the Univer­sity of London or the University of Strathclyde. 
According to Hughes, it is the responsibility of the student to research various British universi­ties and submit their first and second choices to the committee. 
The Knights Men's Hairstyling 
Treat yourself the month of February with a styled haircut and blowstyle combination, and receive a free condition! It will give you back that natural sheen that the winter months have deprived you of. This is a $13.00 value for $8.50. 
~ueen'il ( a~tlt: 
54533 1 ERHACE LANE Tues., Wed .. Sot. 8:30-5 30, Thurs. & Fri. 8:30-8:30 PHONE 277-1691', 
~ 't I . .: : ',1_• ..~;.,.... ,;,.. ·1'· 

., .t .J ·' ,t "' l -, .• I,, .J .J •·J .J .I ,I _t _, ~ •• , ,t ,t ,t 
,• a'. ' •' "'' •' •' " e• 

The program does not guarantee recipients placement in the univer­sities, but tries to assist its scholars as much as possible. 
The Marshall Scholarships Pro­gram was established under the Marshall Aid Commemoration Acts of 1953 and 1959 as a practical expression of the British people's appreciation of the generous aid given by the United States under the Marshall Plan. Its purpose is to enable graduates of American uni­versities and colleges to study for degrees in Britain. 
In the past, Hughes was active as a volunteer at St. Joseph's Hospital and he is presently a member of the student chapter of the American Institute of Chemical Engineers (AICHE). 
' 

St. Mary's Social Commission presents: 
Frederic Storaska 
'' Howto SayNo 
to a Rapist and Survive'' Thurs., Feb. 17 8:00plll Carroll Hall-Madeleva 
Free Admission 
'6 J . J fl . ,• J """'I •·, ---tJ • 1 ~ 1'"1 , I r :.J 
Although it is still uncertain as to But Palma disagreed with Gir­whether or not they qualify for the ouard's contention that the issue rebate, junioros who made the trip was "settled." The decision has were also unhappy, pointing to the been made, but as far as I'm fact -that they will be unable to concerned, it is open for reconsid­enjoy those benefits, either directly eration as long ~ ·-~·:e people who or indirectly. are unhappy ccme forward." 
"Although we (juniors) were Palma went -:>n to say that the lucky to get on the trip," said Pat best place to air such dissatis-Doyle, "we won't be effected by facti?n is i~ the S~nior Ad~isory the rebate because it will be ouncll meetmgs, wh1ch she said are confined to activities that we'll held "every Wednesday at 4:15 in never be able to take part in." 120 Hayes-Healy, and have been 
Palma agreed, admitting that the publicized." . proposed use of the rebate "Does Palma also explamed that she not really lave the juniors any-anticipates that the issue will be where." brought up at today' s meeting. 

March 12-19; includes air fare, Hotel,all taxes, tips, and 
gratuities for eight glorious days. For more information or application contact 284-4198 or call COLLECT (312 782-1884 
,•.,..,• •' •' Jll' r ,.. ,01' .• , ...,~ ••• ' 
• '0 • o 0, o' o ,• ,• .. .• •' 'o" I' •• ,• .. ~· ,• o •''o' '•' o, o' ...........~•.•'• ·, <l'o '.O ';; 'r •., o ,. '~ •, ', •, •. •, f, •, •, ., •, '• • •, •, 'o 'o, 'o •._•., ... "'• ... ,; '} 
............... 

-----~--~-----------..__,,...--~-------.,...------­

Workmen prepare the ACC floor for the Ice Capades this weekend. 
Stafford enlightens audience 
[Continued from page 1) their graves in the rain." Another political poem, "A Star in the Hills", elicited applause with the lines: "A guard who took the oath of loyalty and denied any police record told me this: 'If you don't have a police record yet you could take the oath and get a job if California should be hit by another star'. 'I'd promise to be _ loyal to California and to guard any stars that hit it,' I said, 'of any place three miles out from shore, unless the star was bigger than the • state--in which case I'd be loyal to 
it ..• "I have a confession to make," Stafford added. "I taught in California.'' Stafford claimed his part of the week's sequence was "not in enhancing language, but in reduc­ing language." • • Sometimes it seems like writing 
wanted 

universal custom pillows looking tor sales person to work on a commission basis selling extra large custom throw-pillows. for more details, call 233-6416 between 1-5 pm. 
two girls need ride to florida. tamps-st. pete area. spring breaJ<, susan 4-5149. 
3 need ride to ft. lauderdale over break -call 287-8386. 
need 2 ga tickets to san francisCo game "'ig moner murf" anyt;me call 234-8858. 
wanted -ga and student san francisco b-ball tix kevin 1816. 
need ride to columbus feb. 25, (friday) call tim 1658. 
wanted: rides to ·ft. lauderdale for break. call brian 1589 or 1516. 
need a ride to ft. lauderdale for spring break. will share expenses and driving. call pat 1514. 
need 4 san francisco tikcets for aspiring funeral director. call ray 1417. 
wanted: rug-12 x 14. call4-4122 chary!. 
wanted: house for next fall east of juniper preferred. chris 287-5175 after 5. 
need ride to st. louis area for march break. call peggy 4-4381. 
wanted: ride to madison, wiscon­sin this weekend. call donna 8136. 
need ride to cleveland any weekend call fran 6865. 
need ride to chicago area friday (feb. 18) call 1600 or 7096. 
two giris need ride to ft. lauderdale for spring break. call 4-4291 or 4-4378. 
need ride to pittsburgh the week­end of feb. 18-20. will be happy to share driving and expenses. call 7995. 
need ride to rockford, ill -chicago or vicinity on friday, feb. 18th. call dan 8816. 
z, did you see that last wanted? 
for sale 

tor sale: akai 33rd cassette deck with dolby. will take best price. call john erickson 1188. 
is cheating,' he continued. "Ev­eryone has things he likes better than others. As a writer, I just save all those things I like better than other things, and they become my masterpieces." 
Stafford expressed ''gratitude for being invited to the festival." He gave his farewell in the poem "Message From a Wanderer," stating, "Tell everyone just to remember his name and remind each other." 
Stafford currently teaches com­position and literature at Lewis and Clark University in Portland, Ore­gon. He received the National Book A ward for Traveling Through the Dark in 1962 and the Shelley Memorial Award of the Poetry society in 1964. After his publica­tion of The Rescued Year two years later, Stafford was given the Gug­genheim Grant for creative writing. 
His most recent work, Allegiances, was published in 1970. 
Davenport to speak 
Willie Davenport, a four-time also competed in the Montreal Olympian and track star, will speak Olympic games last summer and in Washington Hall tonight at 8 won a bronze medal. 
p.m. Davenport is presently employed Davenport set an Olympic record by the City-Parish Government as 
for the high hurdles in the 1968 the executive director of the May­Olympic games in Mexico, winning _or's-President's Council on Youth the gold medal in that event. He Opportunity in East Baton Rouge.
La. 

student business opportunity. own you own disco retail record shop ­sold complete....$6,000.00 or best offer. call 291-1512 or (312) 528-4566 or (518) 465-8256. 
audio outlet. top name stereo equipment. wholesale. call 283-­!181. 
telephoto lens: 200mm f3.5 soligor t-4 with mount for nikon, nikkormat includes sun shade and fitten uv filter.SIOO. can be adapted to canon, minolta, pentax, olympus, etc.with a t-4 mount. price without nikon mount: $90. call 1845. ask for tony. 
notices 

wanna run your own bar? juniors, applications are now available for positions of senior bar manager at the office of student affairs (315 administration bldg.) or the senior bar. deadline: feb. 16. hurry!!! 
tickets for the feb. 23 bruce springsteen and the e street band concert at the auditorium theater in chicago are now on sale at the river city ticket outlets. just for the record (1 oo center) and boogie records (college square). 
accurate, fast typing. mrs. donoho, 232-0746. hours: Bam to Bpm. 
used l:)ooks book barn. 1 mile north of notre dame. 272-5520. 
papers professionally typed. tele­phone evenings 272-8308. 
-------~------­
will teach you flute in your spare time. call beth. 8112. 
need typing? executary inc. professionally typing service, 85 cents a page. 232-0898. 
greyhound bus to chicago leaves main circle every friday at approx. 
5:45. call tom at 8338 tor seat reservations. 
improved mind body coordination, faster reaction time, increased intelligence. transcendental medi­tation program, wed. 7:30 pm. 110 
o'shag. 
for rent 

completely furnished houses ran­ging from two to seven bedrooms avialable for summer or next september. call 234-9364, mrs. humbuger. 
Classified Ads 
two bedroom house to rent. summer and or school year. 1012 eddy street. s120 mo. plus utilities. call oddies harris at 232-8563. 
3 room furnished house within walking distance of campus. rent and utilities. one half block from campeau st. call 232-8563. 
4 bedrooms, living room, dining room, kitchen. utilities paid. SlOO per month. call oscar 233-1850. 
lost and found 

lost: ladies timex gold with brown band calendar (date only) between sr. bar and breen phillips. reward, call pat 1321. 
lost: one hewlitt-packard hp-21 calculator. please return, no questions asked. call steve 1478. 
found: single key marked taylor x-7. found se corner of near d-2. phone 1251, chris. 
lost: glasses-brown plastic frames and clear lenses -black vinyl case ­between ace and dillon, mike 1725. 
lost: a circular yellow onyx earring between sorin and main circle or on bus to holy cross (smc) sentimental value. reward. 4374. 
found: ladies watch in washington hall on saturday. call 272-3207 after 4 pm. 
lost: brownish ektelon recquetball racquet at the ace on either wednesday or thursday, if found, please call kevin at 1811. there is a 
. reward. 
personals 

dear sallie, this is what you've been waiting for. 
dear sallie, 
your own personal personal. 
dear sallie, now you can show everyone and be happy. love, paul 
Wednesday, February 16, 1977 the observer 7_ 
Vance assures Israel of U.S.protection, aid 
JERUSALEM 7APJ -Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance assured Israel yesterday of an enduring American commitment to that nation's secur­ity and survival as he began a six-nation Middle East tour to survey prospects for new Arab­Israeli peace talks. 
Welcoming Vance at Ben Gurion International Airport, Israeli For­eign Minister Yigal Allon declared it was "high time the political momentum should be revived.'' Israel was not for stagnation, he said. "On the contrary we are for movement toward peace.'' 
The stop in Israel is the first on a week-long tour that will take Vance to Egypt, Lebanon, Jordan, Saudi Arabia and Syria. This is his first visit to the six countries. 
His major preoccupation on his first overseas mission as secretary of state is expected to be the question of how to include the Palestinians in any new Mideast 
negotiations. 
In talks with Prime Miniser Yitzhak Rabin and other Israeli leaders today, Vance intends to explore terms under which Israel woulddropits resistance to negotia­ting with the palestine Liberation Organization (PLO). 
About prospects for a settle­ment, Vance said, "We all know that this will not be an easy task nor one which will be quickly achieved." 
He said he came to Israel with "one simple. message" -that "the United States is convinced a funda­mental underlying principle of our quest for peace is the enduring trust and confidence between our two nations. 
"Let there be no question the United States is deeply committed to the survival and security of Israel." he said. 
In his talks, Vance hopes to persuade Israeli leaders that a new current of "moderation" is moving through the Arab world. He will emphasize the Carter administra­tion's view that this presents a 
tom, thanks, if you don't read this don't tell me. 
pumpkin 

wtm, just wanted to let you know i was thinking of you, como siempre. 
mr. hurtekant­thank you tor the beautiful rose. 
a. 

kitty, peter '3e' sweeney wanted me to put in a personal that said to "kitty conklin, do you know how to type?" but i couldn't put in one like that? 
gerry and erin-­i hope you're satisfied. we still love you. mary, debbie, bubbles, peggy, val, robin, farrah, eileen, janet and bruce. 
singles only, write box 723 notre dame. enclose stamped envelope. 
to Irish muench. heres your personal. 
alone again? nd-smc hotline 4-4311 open nights. 
3rd floor, old section many thanks tor the flowers. in spite of your inferiority, we really do like you. 
georgie­i hope that everything you hope for comes true this year. happy birthday! sven. 
mr. eggplant, after 2 meals, im still living. i should let you win at racquetball more often. 
me. 

to all those who .... indulge. the quickee is running again this weekend. friday and saturday. info. call 7638. 
shultsy and th-e bearded(?) one: thanx. i'll be at "my corner" for another offer. sayonara, 
freak 

punkin, the nerves are still as hard as nails. looking forward to saturday!!! 
duncan 

204 -happy belated v-day, but i'm still not buying the wine. '-horizontal 
honey bun, you missed v-d by one day. are you wearing your red? happy 22nd. 
love miss arts and letters 
• 

unique opportunity for a ·'just and lasting peace." 
Shortly before Vance arrived, Allon said in parliament that Israel would tell the secretary of state it was willing to attend a reconvened Geneva Mideast conference, and would demand a peace treaty "and normalization of relations" be­tween Israel and the Arabs. 
This ''in return for territorial compromises whose map has not yet been determined," he said. 
In an interview with Israeli correspondents in Washington re­leased on theeveningof the trip, Vance said he had discussed his mission with the Soviets and would report to them after it is completed. 
Noting that Moscow is a co­chairman with Washington of the Geneva conference, Vance said the Russians "have a responsibility for seeing that we move toward peace in the area." 
1800 parents expected 
[Continued from page 3) Any change in seating would now be impossible due to the amount of work involved. In addition to what has been scheduled by _the committee, many dorms have planned events for parents of juniors. According to Bufalino, ''This will make the weekend even more special--the 
opportunity to meet the parents of 
their son's or daughter's friends.'' 
She also encourages parents who 
arrive early to attend classes with 
their son or daughter. 
Bufalino stated that this week­
end will have one of the largest 
turnouts of any Junior Parents 
weekend. She stressed that "the 
committee has worked hard and 
put in a lot of hours,'' but that they 
have had the support of the junior 
class the help of many people in 
making it a success. 

jimmy, i didn't realize you were so serious. cindy 
there were some guys from an old hall most of whom were tall but only in stature their brains couldn't manufacture very much at all.......... 
you guys should really learn to be nice to us... 
to the sweetest valentines on campus, rourke and mike. thanks! love, moe and t.t. 
polack? who-are you? i'm really dying to find out. 
drew 

jerry, jeff, larry, greg, and espe­cially steve and steve, thanks for the wonderful time monday night. let's do it again sometime. mary, peggy, val, eileen and debbie. 
it's wednesday, does that mean it's okay to have a repeat of last wednesday? the bionic liver. 
happy birthday diane rice!! 1!.! everyone should call 7865 or visit 118 lyons to wish her a happy birthday.!! 
to the cuties in 318 pangborn-­evil grimace loves you!!! 
happy 21st charlie wolf told you last year i'd remember your birthday. no more jitterbug. ging. 
"eat's cousin"$ 

rourke and mike, who are you guys. interested 
Charlie-A birthday wish is too common For a guy as special as you So, to welcome your 21st Look in your sate And find your first clue. 
Jay, 

Sorry this is late, but I hate being ordinary. So, here is a spe­cial Valentine, apart from the others (2 days apart, to be exact). Let's play some racquetball. I'll call. XXXXO 
Love, 
Tom 

.. I 
-------------------~-------------------------------­
8 the observer Wednesday, February 16, 1977 
Inside or outside, Batton makes people take notice 
.. 
by Frank LaGrotta Sports Writer 

Dave Batton has never had much trouble being noticed. At 6-9, 225 lbs. he is easy to spot at the dining hall, in the classroom or the library and, most importantly, on the basketball court. Yes, when Dave Batton is around it's no secret; it's also no fun for Irish opposition for Dave Batton has established him­
I r self as a serious threat to any team that challenges Digger Phelps' cagers. 
"Dave is playing extremely well this year," points out assistanti Irish coach, Dick Kuchen. "He's really come on the second half of the season. The great thing about f him is that he is the type of player that can go either way; inside, he's as good as any player in the game 
f and he is very effective from the outside as well." It is difficult to question the fact that Batton's play is a significant reason that the Irish have overcome their earlier misfortunes and post­ed victories in their last eight contests. "The Colt," as he is refered to because of the Number 45 on his game jersey, blames the Irish dry spell on the players having too much free time. ''Spending Christmas break in the Morris Inn really wasn't much of a break," reflects Batton. "Actually, all we did was sleep, eat, and play basketball. After awhile that can start to get you down; you need a diversion but there just isn't any." Batton credits the return of the 
students with turning things 
around for the Notre Dame cagers. 
"The students are very impor­
tant to us," Batton emphasizes. 
"Once they came back after break, 
we really started to get things going. 
We looked at the start of the 
second semester as the start of a 
whole new season and we set our 
sights on that NCAA playoff bid." 
Averaging 12 points and seven 
rebounds per game, Batton is one 
of three reasons that the Irish again 
lead the nation in rebound differen­
tial statistics. He talks about the 
other two reasons, teammates 
Bruce Flowers and Toby Knight, as 
well as his own contribution, with 
pride. 

"Last year," recalls 'the Colt,' 
"we were first in rebounding 
differential and we're tops again. 
That's something that Toby, Bruce 
and I take a lot of pride in. We 
work very hard on our rebounding 
skills. I feel when I am in the 
game, besides rebounding, I have 
to stop my man from scoring and 
try to put some points on the board 
myself." 

With six games remaining on their schedule, the Irish must face Manhattan and West Virginia on the road as well as Loyola and LaSalleat home before that March 5 "showdown" with the Dons of the University ·of San Francisco, cur­rently ranked number-one in the 
nation. 

"They'll be a real challenge," Batton admits, "butit's a challenge I can't wait to face. I have a friend from home, Chubby Cox, who plays for San Francisco and that will 
Swimmers extend streak 
Having extended their winning streak to three consecutive meets, Coach Denny Stark's Irish tankers embark on a busy schedule which includes three meets in a five-day span this week. 
Last Friday, Notre Dame downed Wayne State, 64-49, at the Rockne Memorial Pool. The victory evened the Irish record at 3-3 for the season. 
Another key performance by Notre Dame's Ed Fitzsimons highlighted the Irish victory. Fitzsimons captured first place in both the SO and 100-yard freestyle events, with times of 22.4 and 49.6, respectively. 
In two other events, Notre Dame swimmers established meet records. Mark Chiles won the 200-yard backstroke with a time of 2:05.6, and the 400-yard medley relay squad of Chhes, Andy Petro, Tom Hartye. and South Bend's Jim Severyn set a meet record of 3:45.0. 
Other Notre Dame winners included Ron Alitto in the 1000-freestyle with a time of 10:34.9, Scott Jessup in the 200-freestyle in 1:50.4. and Dale DeBruyne in the 200-butterfly in 2:08.1. 
However, the outstanding performance of the meet was turned in by Wayne State diver Bill Cody, who captured both the one and three-meter diving events. In the one-meter dive, Cody set a Rockne Pool record with 289.50 points. eclipsing the old record of 
270.30 points set by Notre Dame's Mark Foster in 1975. 
Looking ahead, the Notre Dame swimmers will travel to Bowling Green, Ohio Tuesday afternoon to swim against Bowling Green at 4 p.m. 
There will be two meets at the Rockne Memorial Pool this weekend. Northern Illinois will visit South Bend Friday afternoon at 4 p.m. to make up the meet cancelled Jan. 28. Saturday afternoon at 2 p.m., the nationally-ranked Purdue Boilermakers will oppose the Irish. 
Grapplers split meets 
The Irish wrestling team coached by Ray Sepetaconcluded its dual meet season this past week and now sets its sights on the upcoming 22-team Wheaton Invitational. The stop at Wheaton Friday and Saturday will be the final "regular season" action for the Notre Dame grapplers as the NCAA Midwest Regional will follow the next week at Drake in Des Moines, Iowa. 
Notre Dame split its four dual meets last week, dropping close matches to Western Michigan and Drake by identical 18-15 scores and then rebounding with wins of 45-3 over Evansvilleand 34-7 over Valparaiso. The week's action closed the season's dual record at 8-6. 
Individually, Irish co-captain Pat McKillen (150) is quickly moving in on Dave Boyer's career wins record of 58. McKillen, riding.an 11-match winning streak, has an 18-3-1 record on the year, including individual titles at the National Catholic Championships and the Rochester Invitational. For his career. the Saukegan. Illinois native has 54 wins against 13 defeats and seven draws. 
Rob Dreger at 177 is also enjoying a fine season and stands 20-9, leading the Irish in victories. Mike Padden (167), three and one last week,will take a season's mark of 17-4-1 to Weaton and has the Indiana Invitation crown to his credit as well. Bob Golic continued his undefeated season last week as the National Catholic Heavyweight champ registered three pins and a decision to run his record to 8-0. 
George Gedney, a NCIT runnerup, is 10-6-2 at 118. At 126, National Catholic titleholder Dave DiSabato is 13-8. DiSabato, a freshman, suffered a muscle pull in his upper body against Drake that may keep him out of action this weekend at Wheaton. 
make the game even more impor­
tant to me. To be able to say that 
we beat the number-one team, well 
that would be great." 

Beyond the Dons, Batton is 
looking at the NCAA playoffs with 
the thought that this could be the 
year for the Irish. 

"If there was ever a year, this is 
it," Batton emphatically points 
out. "We definitely have the 
potential to go all the way. We've 
beaten Maryland, UCLA 
at UCLA, and we have proven that 
we can play with the best." 

"To do it," he continues, "we · have to play the way we have been 
playing which has been 

super. There are parts of our game 
that we'll have to improve, but we 
can work on those with little 
problem. We have the potential, 
now we have to go out and do it!" 
"Doing it," is nothing new to 
Batton. Hailing from Pennsyl­
vania, where he holds most of the 
scoring records at Springfield High 
School, the big forward won 
all-Philadelphia and all-state ho­
nors his junior and senior years, 
was named to Parade magazine's 
All-American list as a senior, and 
raised the eyebrows of many 
college recruiters. He visited Notre 
Dame on the weekend of a classic 
Notre Dame-USC football game 
and found himself caught up in 
traditional Irish spirit. 

"I was really impressed with the 
beautiful campus and the challenge 
of earning a Notre Dame degree, 
but I was really turned on by the 
great people and the crowd reac­
tion at that football game. It was 
something else." 

An economics major who enjoys 
good music, Batton is .eyeing a 
career in professional basketball 
Irish thine/ads tie 
by Greg Solman Sports Writer 

In an indoor track and field meet 
held in Toledo's Centennial Hall 
last Friday, Notre Dame and 
Toledo battled to a 61-61 tie. Notre 
Dame was leading the meet, 61-56, 
with only the relay to go, but 
Toledo's Hogan, Woods, Leighton 
and Collins turned in a 3:29.0 time 
in the six lap relay to win the race 
and the meet. 

In the track events, Toledo's 
Stefanich's 4:16 time was enough 
to defeat Kevin Kenny and Joe 
Strohman in the mile run. 
Stefanich went on to defeat his Dwn 
trackmate Grant and Dave 
Gutchenritter of Notre Dame in the 
1000-yard run with a 2:13.3 time, 
breaking the Toledo indoor record. 
In the 440, Leighton and Gudgel 
of Toledo took first and third place 
respectively, sandwiching them­
selves around Sexton of Notre 
Dame. In the other dash events, 
Goldsmith nf Toledo defeated 
Lynch and Anderson of Notre 
Dame in the 60, logging a 6.5 time, 
and Lynch's 31.8 was good enough 
to win the 300 over Spooner of 
Toledo and Flynn of Notre Dame. 
Toledo's Leighton, Williamson 
and Grant swept the 800-yard run, 
with a winning time of 156.2 In the 
600, Collins'!: 12 tied the record set 
by Frank Little in 1968, and was 
enough to defeat Notre Dame's 
O'Brien and Spieler. In the 
three-mile run, Dennis 
VanderKratts and Steve Welch 
took first and second place for the 
Irish, with times of 14:11.2 and 
14:25.0 In the 60-yard half-hurdles, Gough of the Irish beat out his own teammate Willis to sweep that event. 
The field events saw Vetica, Bodi and Minna of Toledo sweep the 35-pound weight throw. Ferenc and Meyer of Notre Dame swept the top two spots in the shoptput. In the high jump. Notre Dame's Matt tied Toledo's Shaw with 6'6" jumps. but won by virtue of fewer misses. Finally, in the pole vault event. Matteo and Ted Burgmcicr finished one and two f01; Notre Dame. 

.The play of Dave Batton is one of the major reasons for Notre 
Dame's current eight game winning streak. 
after graduation, either in the NBA finals. 
or abroad. "People may think it's a big 
"It's something I've always joke, but I really enjoy it," he said. 
hoped for,'' Batton admits. "Get-"This campus goes nuts over that 
ting drafted by an NBA team would tournament. To make the finals 
be a dream come true. If that last year and then do well was a big 
doesn't materialize, however, I'd thrill for me and I can't wait to try it 
like to play ball in Europe. After again." 
basketball I hope to put my degree According to Batton, the Irish 
to good use, perhaps in an inves-arc playing the best basketball they 
tor's capacity." have all season, and it appears that 
Besides a national title for the the NCAA championship that he Irish. Batton is also eagerly await-talks about could be much more ing the onset of the "Bookstore than just a dream. Putting points Basketball" tournament where his on Irish scoreboards and smiles on team scored a rain-soaked overtime Irish fans, "The Colt" will be doing victory over Bill Paterno's "Aver-all he can to make that dream a age White team" last year in the reality.Tony Pace :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=:=::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::·:::::::::: 
A Bum Deal? 
·:·:::·:·:·:::.:::.::::::;::::::::::::::::::::::.:·:·:·:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::·:-=·:·:·:·:·:·:·:::::::·:::::::::::::::·:·:·:::-=::: Looks it The recently announced trade of the Cubs' Bill Madlock and Rob Spcrring for the Giants' Bobby Murcer, Steve Ontiveros and Andy Muhlstock is rather surprising. Though it was well known that both Murcer and Madlock, the principal characters of this transaction, were disenchanted with their former environment, this exchange seems inequitable from the Cubs point of view. Why did the Cubs make this trade'? Well, there are four principal reasons for a team to make a trade: 
I. to obtain a higher quality player in exchange for a lesser quality player 
2. 
to fill a positional weakness by trading a player from a position where a surplus exists 

3. 
to wake up a dormant team by ending the status quo that may have been hindering the club 

4. 
to get rid of amalcontent who may have been affecting the team's performance Looking at the Cubs' trade with these standards in mind, one has to doubt the capacities of those in the <:;ub front office. 


First, it is quite obvious that'the Cubs did not receive a highe~;. quality player. While the marginal players may surprise, it would be best to look at this as a straight Murcer for Madlock deal. Murcer is a fine player with 
a .280 lifetime batting average but he is 31-years old and the length of the remainder of his career is questionable. Madlock, on the other hand, is a legitimate superstar. His lifetime batting average is a phenomenal.337, and he has won two batting titles, and he is but 26-years old. 
Second, the Cubs did not fiil any positional need, rather they created one. Other trades have brought Buckner and Greg Gross to patrol the Cubs' outfield pastures. And, while Murcer could make this a superb trio, the loss of Madlock creates a gaping vacancy at the hut corner. Though Ontiveros has played the position, his .176 batting average of last season suggests a paper bat and he is far from a fielding demon. Perhaps the best thing for the Cubs to do would be to move Murcer to third base as Giants manager Bill Rigney has suggested. But even if that is what the Cubs has in mind when they made the trade, they are certainly in a worse position. 
The third reason does not apply either in this case because the Cubs have already made some trades that would have shaken up the club. The aforementioned Buckner and Gross arc just two of the new faces that wiii be in the Cubs' program this season. · 
The fourth reason seems to be the answer then. Madlock was a malcontent, he wanted an enormous pay increase. He would have held out and eventually have become a free agent. All of this is true, but one should note the situation in Murccr's instance. He docs not have a signed contract either and he is holding out for a contract that is comparable to that which Madlock sought. In fact. the last contract that Murcer played under was for almost $100.000 more than the reported $85,000 that Madlock pla~'l'd lor !;"1 .,cason. 
So the Cubs haiL' traded their malcontent for the Giants' malcontent. Arc thcv anv better ol'f'1 Nu. it would seem that thcv arc somewhat worse otT. P.K. Wri!.!ln ... twuld stick to chewing gum. . 



