
---~---------------~~-' -~ . 
by Phil Cacldey sistencies in the University propo­ried to Notre Dame economics resigned from his position of Senior Staff Reporter sal," Bender stated, explaining professor Thomas Swartz. A Campus Editor earlier this week.
Bender 
that the review committee will iron member of the 1971 search commit­The action was not connected with Student Body President Dave out the proposal so that it can be tee for the vice president for his appointment to the committee. ann0 U nCes Bender announced yesterday the introduced without snags at the Student Affairs, she presently The committee will meet at the formation of a committee to review Oct. 21 meeting of the Board of works in the Public Defender's end of next week and will consider 




server 
an indcp£>ndent student newspaper serving notre dame and sL mary's 
-~-·-•··"'--·Joi...OC.~-----;:,~--.......,--,,....-..,.._,.__________,____,___________________________..______,
Vol. XII, No.7 Wednesday, September 7, 1977 
Burtchaell's resignation forced? 


by Dave Rumbach suddenness of Burtchaell's resig­interests. 
I 
Staff Reporter nation was the result of the Dr. Isabel Charles, dean of the ex-provost's "style" and bore no College of Arts and Letters, com­Sources quoted by the South other significance, the Tribune mended Burtchaell for his efforts to Bend Tribune have stated that Fr. reported. "Jim is not a lame duck "forward the college's Catholic 
I 
James Burtchaell's sudden resig­kind of person,'' the source stated, committments" and for establish­nation from his position as Univer­-adding that the board had apparen­ing the Center for the Study of sity Provost was not voluntary. tly wished Burtchaell to stay on for American Catholicism. Charles 
Campus sources, according to the remainder of the year before stated that Burtchaell benefited the the Tribune, say that Burtchaell resigning. College of Arts and Letters by had incurred opposition from both Fr. Burtchaell, who has already endowing a number of chairs and 
the Board of Trustees and the Holy that his service" on the faculty will 
moved out of his second floor office 

Cross community. Edmund A. benefit both students and teach-
in the Administration building, was 

Stephan, chairman of the Notre unavailable for comment. ers." Dame Board of Trustees, would not 
Stephan, while refll$ing to com­Professor Paul Conway, chair­

deny that Burtchaell's resignation 
ment on the Board of Trustee's man of the Faculty Senate, stated

'was not voluntary nor that the 
·alleged involvement in Burtchaell's that Burtchaell "went all out for

board had sought that resignation. 
resignation, praised the former the faculty when they were in

The Board of Trustees opposed 
provost describing his tenure in agreement," adding, however,

the succession to the presidency by 
the second-ranking university posi­that they did not always see "eye to

Burtchaell, a promotion built into 
tion as "brilliant." eye."

the position of provost, according 
Key faculty members also prais­Burtchaell is currently teaching ato one Tribune source. 

ed Burtchaell both for his com­course in "Biblical Ethics" and is

"The Resignation is a sign he 
mittment to academic excellence planning to expand his teaching

won't be it, the position was 
and his frequent support of faculty activities next semester.

created as a testing ground for the presidency. Obviously he lost out," noted one source, described by the Tribune as "reliable." 
The same source stated that the
FR. JAMES BURTCHAELL 
In one week 

One raped, two accosted 
by Michael Ridenour daylight while the other occurred at Roemer said this was the first 
Three women students were night in front of a hall in a lighted time to his knowledge that a reportedly attacked in separate area. student had been attacked in front incidents during the first week of of a hall or in broad daylight in such 
A Saint Mary's student was
the semester. One of the reported well-traveled areas. Roemer warns
accosted by two cyclists August
attacks took place in the residential women students to "be prudent
30th while walking near the Com­
area south ofthe campus, while the and careful, and try to get transpor­
munity Cemetery at 2:15p.m. The
other two occurred on campus. tation ifat all possible by bus or car
cyclists were of high school age.
A graduate student was accosted 

between the two colleges and other 
She said one of them blocked herand raped five blocks from the 
places around South Bend." He
path and placed his hands on herLibrary Tavern about 2:00 a.m. 
also suggests "teaming up with
clothing but they left when sheSunday. She was walking to an 
friends" when walking on campus,
threatened to have them arrested.
off-campus residence after leaving 

especially at night. ''Security can. 
the Library Tavern, when the The third incident occurred last 
help but that's not going to make it 
assailant dragged her to a dark Saturday about 10:30 p.m. in front 
100 per cent &afe," Roemer added. 
area behing a building. She was of Alumni and Dillon halls. An admitted to Memorial Hospital for unidentified male was making a Commenting on the seriousness treatment, where she later was groaning sound while laying in the of the attacks on campus this past unable to give the police an grass and when the woman investi­week, Roemer said "the two cam­accurate description of the assail­gated she was attacked. Coming pus incidents were misdemeanors ant. outside of Dillon for "a breath of and it wouldn't have been all that 
The two campus attacks were 'fresh air," she was able to escape helpful to call in the police. Yet assault and battery cases. Accord­injury after being thrown to 'the after three attacks in the first week, ing to James Roemer, the dean of ground by her assailant. Security it's an alarming situation and in the students, the attacks "were un­was unable to find the suspect after future the police will be called in if usual," in that one happened' in searching the area. another such incident occurs." 


• proposals regarding the planned removal of students from the

review 

University judicial process. The 
• six-member committee named byCommlttee•Bender is composed of two admini­' strators, two faculty members, and two students. It will consider not only the official University Trus­tees' proposal, but also one cur­rently being drafted by a student 

Roemer 

Trustees. 
The administrators on the com­mittee are Vice President for Student Affairs Bro. Just Paczesny and Dean of Students. James Roemer. ''They are obvious choices,'' Bender said, pointing out that they are the persons in the administration most closely con­nected to the issue. Additionally Office of South Bend and is Counsel for the Retarded. Swartz also is a member of a South Bend law firm. Bender justified the selection, saying he wanted a woman's point of view on the committee, as well as an outside view. He stressed the necessity of the presence of a neutral lawyer. on the committe because legal 
all proposals on the matter, whe­ther drafted by the trustees, by a student, or by student government, according to Bender. Meetings will be held as long as is necessary to work out a concensus on the plan, then a report will be submitted to the Student Life Council (SLC) and afterwards o the Board of Trustees. Bender said that one advantage 

government committee. Jack Schneider and Thomas Car­
reacts 

ney, members of the University Board of Trustees, made public the intention of abolishing the Univer­sity Judicial Board, of which two of the members are students, at a meeting held two weeks ago with representatives of the student gov­ernment and campus media. The move stemmed from legal action related to the Hunter case brought against the University this sum­mer. It is intended to put the University in a-better legal position in the area of disciplinary proceed­ings. 
"There are problems and incon-Paczesny is a University trustee. 
Fr. Dave Burrell, chairman of the Theology Department, is one of the faculty members on the committee. Explaining his choice, Bender de­scribed Burrell as a "rational, fair guy'' who is known to have an open rnitid. "If he's against our propo­sal, I'll accept that (that the proposal is a bad one). If he says it's good, that will bear out all the work we've done" and add cre­dence to the plan, Bender added. 
The other "faculty" member is Jeanne Swartz, a criminal defense lawyer who lives in South Bend. Swartz, 38, is a 1975 Notre Dame Law School graduate and is mar-questions and technicalities will be dealt with. 
Bender himself is one of the student members of the committee. The second is Tom Byrne, a senior government major, and former Campus Editor .of the Observer. In looking for another student to serve on the committee, Bender said he looked for a student "who under­stood the procedure inside and out,'' as well as someone outside of student government. Speaking of Byrne, Bender commented, "He has credibility, is open-minded and I doubt if there's another student who knows as much about the process in question." Byrne_ 
of the committee review is that Student Government will have the means of gauging the receptive­ness of the trustees and adminis­tration to new proposals before the actual presentation to the Board of Trustees. In this manner, the SBP claimed he would know beforehand whether or not to take "further action.'' 

Roemer acted to the selection of · · the committee in a letter sent to : Bender, as well. as in an interview. "I would have liked to see Dave . appoint the committee through the :. · SLC, which is the proper body to consider changes in the discipli-· · · 
[continued on page 3] 

., 
.... 
.'.. 


Lance still investigated 
WASHINGTON-Federal banking examiners turned their information on Budget Director Bert Lance's private use of a Georgia bank's aircraft over to the Justice Department and two other federal agencies for inv_estigation yesterday. The probe ~en~ers on Lance's use of the National Bank of Georgra a1rplane for his own gersonal use both before and after he was bank pr~sident and for political trips. 
Liddy can't pay 

WILLIAMSPORT, Pa. -G. Gordon Liddy, master­mind of the bungled Watergate burglary, swore in court yesterday that he is a pauper and can~o~ now pay a.$40,000 fine in full. That allowed the lrftrng of 
.. 

!· the last barrier to his scheduled release on parole !!· today. 

Weather 

Partly sunny today and tomorrow. Fair tonight, lows 
in the upper SO's to low 60's. Highs today in the low 
80's. High tomorrow in the mid 80's. 
EL---On Campus Today---.~ 
1-5 pm student union plant sale, Ia fortune ballroom 
6:30pm meeting, sailing club, rm. 303 engineering bldg. 
6:30pm films "bells of st. mary's" and "knute rockne-all american", sponsored by students act., o'laughlin aud., free 
7pm theology and life colloquium, for freshmen only, "what is the eucharist really about anyway?", talk given by fr. john gallen s.j., sponsored by the theo dept. , rom. 122 hayes-healy. 
7:30pm informal lecture, "field work in anthropology", given by irwin press, lib. lounge. 
7:30pm american scene, "challenges and hopes from the third church", by anthony bellagamba, icm, sponsored by humanistic studies, carroll hall smc. 
*The Observer 
Night Editor: Steve Odland 
Asst.  Night  Editor:  Sandy  
Colson  
Layout  Staff:  Bill  Andrews,  

Leigh Tunakan, Marti Hogan Editorial Layout: Rick LaBelle Sports Layout: Tony Pace Typists: Gwen Coleman, Tri­cia Meehan, Eileen Lynch, Tom Powanda Night Controller: Karen Chiames Day Editor: Maribeth Moran Copy Reader: Joan Fremeau Ad Layout: John P. O'Connel, Greg Trzupek Photographer: Kevin Walsh 
FJ\EE!!! 
Soft drink "ith 3 items TACOS • BAB~ TACO 
• 
IIRRITOS • TAIALIS 

• 
EIICIIlADAS • TACO DOC 

• 
TOSTADOS • BEAll TACO 

• 
IARIEQUE TACO 

• 
SPAJIISI IIOT D08 

• 
CIIEESEICIICF.R 




Spt'cidlizing in \'egetarian Foods. 
The Observer Is published Mon­dey throuth Frtcley exc:.pt durint exem •nd viiCIItlon periods. Tl)e Observer Is published by the stud8nfl of Notre Oeme end S•lnt Mery's Collet•· Subscriptionsm•y be purch•sed tor 120 per ye•r (S 1 o per semester) from The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre D•me, lndl•n• 4U56. Second clell post•e• peld, Notre Oeme, Jndlene, 4U56. . The Observer Is • member of the AIIOCleted Prell. All repro­dudlon rlthfl ere reserved. 
2nd floor La Fortune

The Knights 
Thursday 1-4 pm


Men's Hairstyling 

Friday 2:30-4:30 pm

Treat yourself the month of Sept. with a styled 
haircut and blowstyle combination, and receive a limited no:of '76 and '77 Registers
free condition! It will give you back that natural 

available to all students.

sheen that the Summer months have deorived you of. This is a $13.00 value for $8.50. 



LOUIES BIG SPECIAl 25¢ DRAFT BEERS 




Miss Connie Miss Jeanie , II' f{t 
~ueen ~ u,a~ 
EVERY WED· NITE

54533Terrac:e Lane 277-1691. Lower Level of Queen's Castle t Tues. and Wed. 8:30am to 5:30pm Thurs. and Fri. 8:30 am to 8:30 pm Sat. 8:30 am to 5 pm 
FROM 10-12

Oosed Monday 
' 

Angela to open formally 
by Jean Powley for the $1.8 million facility will take St. Mary's Editor place Saturday at 1:30 p.m. Among the other prominent 
This weekend will be one of sports figures and events schedul­athletic exhibitions, clinics an.d ed for the weekend are a dance seminars as St. Mary's dedicates clinic and performance by Kaleido­its new Angela Athletic Facility. scope, a modern dance ensemble 
from Indianapolis; a tennis clinicNational sports figures such as 

conducted by Joan ..Ramey of theMicki King Hogue, Olympic diving Ramey Tennis School in Indianapo­gold medalist in 1972; Patty Be~g. 

lis; a volleyball clinic and demon­Ladies Professional Golf Associa­

stration by Donald S. Shondell of .

tion's (LPGA) tournament record Ball State University and aholder; and Carmen Piasecki, four­karate clinic led by Barbara Cope­time winner of the Women's Met­land, second degree black belt ofropolitan Golf Association the Myong Kim's Karate School. 
(WMGA) will all be present to Other clinics include one inspeak and conduct clinics. 
fencing conducted by Dr. Michael The program of events, entitled DeCicco of Notre Dame; a handball 
"Women's Sports: Prospects and clinic with Noel O'Sullivan of Notre Problems," will begin Friday even­Dame; and a raquetball exhibition ing with a reception and banquet by Jean Gorman of St. Mary's.for guests of the college and will Also, a sports communication 
end Sunday night with a college clinic will be conducted by Lew sports night, at which time St. Wood, "Today Show" announcer Mary's athletic program and with NBC, and Pose Tucker, free­coaches will be introduced. lance television interviewer, on Formal dedication ceremonies Saturday morning. 
Klein to help SMC frosh 
by Jean Powley and.a master's degree in EnglishSt. Mary's Editor from John Carroll University. 
The class of 1981 at St. Mary's She is now in the process of will be academically counseled by getting her doctorate in higher someone totally unfamiliar to up­education administration. perclassmen, Mary Ellen Klein. Since St. Mary's is still new to She is the college's new freshman her, Klein says that she has not yet academic counselor. -set any specific goals except to 
Klein will work with Rosemary continue "the fine work already Doherty, freshman dean for the done in this office." past six years, in a team arrange­
"I found this a very warm and ment this semester. Then, in the 

welcoming community. As a spring when Doherty returns to freshman myself, I'm still learning 
teaching full-time in the English about St. Mary's just as the department, Klein will take over students are," she said. 


sole operation of the freshman office. On the job since the end of August, Klein is busy, at present, 
ND-SMC JUNIORS!! 

assisting freshmen with such aca­
demic concerns as class changes 
GET TOGETHER AT WARREN DUNES 

and scheduling difficulties. She is 
also teaching part-time in the 
Sundav afternoon

English department. 
Sept. 11

When she is given total respon­sibility for the freshman office in 
maps in

the spring, she will also be involved 
Student Activities 

for instance, in counseling students 
on course choices and study habits. 
ND-Lafortune Then, next summer she will choose 
SMC-I.eMans and schedule courses for the class of 1982. 
Parking-$2 Immediately before coming to St. 
Bus ride-$2

Mary's, Klein served as assistant 
director of admissions at John Carroll University in Cleveland, sign up in 
Ohio for four years. She also 
taught freshman composition QUESTIONS? call Jim . 3447 Student Activitie§ 
there. . d f
She was also assistant ean o students at Seton Hill College, a 
Freshman Registers Are Here!!

women's college in Pennsylvannia, for two years. A native Ohioan, Klein holds a 
Freshmen may pick them up at the

bachelor's degree in English from Notre Dame College in Cleveland 
Student Union Offices 

Wood will, in addition, serve as 
master of ceremonies at the confer­
ence's opening banquet Friday 
night. 

Seminars planned for the week­end include one on women's colle­giate sports by Leanne Grotke, Indiana University Athletic Direc­tor and Commissioner for National Championships for the Association for Intercollegiate Athletics for Women (AlAW) and a session on religion and sports by Sister Kath­erine Reichert, director of campus ministry at St. Mary's and former Minnesota women's golf champ­ion. 
Physical education for the special 
student will be Dr. Evelyn A. 
Davies' topic in her session entitled 
"Adapted Physical Education." 
She is a physical education profes­
sor at Indiana University. 

John Boruff, assistant recreation 
director with the South Bend 
Community School Corporation, 
will discuss community recreation 
in his seminar Sunday morning. 
Finally, a dual tennis match between St. Mary's and DePauw University will be featured Satur­day afternoon immediately follow­ing the formal dedication ceremo­nies. 
All Notre Dame and St. Mary's students, faculty and staff are welcome to participate in any or all of the planned activities, except the meals, according to Kathleen Cor­des, St. Mary's director of athletics and recreation. 
"We're anticipating an awfully good conference," she said. 
A schedule of the dedication activities will be included in the Observer's Friday "on campus today" section. 


Wednesday, September 7, 1977 the observer 
3

Russell: 
Disciplinary procedures against students 


by Bob Varettoni 
Senior Staff Reporter 

the University. with its proposed change in disciplinary procedure, is trying to"stack the deck" against students, according to J.P. Russell, chairman of the Hall Presidents Council (HPC.) 
Russell gave this opinion last night in Alumni Hall at the first meeting of this year's HPC. He outlined the new disciplinary situa­tion for the HPC when Dave Bendet. student body president, failed to make a scheduled appear­ance to discuss the matter. 
Russell said that under the new set up students will no longer take part in disciplinary hearings. In the past. he noted. there have been student representatives on both the University Judicial Board and the Appeals Board. He added that du 
Lac the student handbook which details University regulations, will be distributer\ by Saturday. 
Other topics discussed by the 

Roemer reacts to appointees 
HPC mcluded a plan for tutoring programs within each dorm. Florenceann Stringle, Student Government academic commission­er, said that Sorin Hall's program, where students volunteer to tutor others within their own hall, will serve as a model. 
"With Dean Hofman's tutoring program, freshmen are taken care of well," Stringle said. "It would be nice if we can do something for upperclassmen." 
Stringle said she felt sorry for the student enrolled in "some course like Zoology 1000" who finds no one to turn to for help. She added that this new program will be underway within two weeks. 
Mariann{; Moore, SU calendar coordinator, announced the forma­tion of a S_tudent Union service which will check for conflicts of dates involving campus social events. Moore hoped this new service might prevent hall formals, for example, to be scheduled for 

Farley Hotel 

[Photo by Kevin Walsh] 
[continued from page 1] nary procedures," he commented. He also would have liked to have seen some discussion of Bender's choices before actual appointment took place. While not saying that the choices were not "good ones," Roemer expressed a wish that all of the committee members would have been chosen from within the Notre Dame community, noting the Swartz is a South Bend lawyer and not directly connected with the University. He suggested that David Link, dean of the Law School, might have been chosen instead. Roemer also pointed out that Bender did not consult him before making any of the choices. In his letter to Bender, Roemer recommended that the number of the committee members be drop­ped from six to three, the three being Roemer himself, Bender and a faculty member. "If we have any more on this committee, it wiii be too difficult to achieve a concensus on the choice of words as well as on the concepts involved," the letter reads. "The tumult and shouting of a larger group is not helpful. In 
ATTENTION! 

'UNIVERSITY FACULTY AND OFF-CAMPUS STUDENTS 
Anyone who does not have a meal program which includes evening meals and wishes to attend the Carney '77 picnic dinner can purchase a ticket at the oHice of student adivites in LaFortune Student Center Wednes­day thru Friday. 
Carney '77 will be held from 4:30 p.m.-6:30 
p.m. on Friday, Septbember 9. Tickets are $3.35. 
~­

-~· ·~ .. , 4'., --.... ., .• , ............ _....... ,. -... .. 
• • .. ... • • • " • • • ....... •.•.... •.: •,•.--• ••_~ • •. • • •• @' •• , .... ·". ~ 4 ~. 4 • : 
fact, it slows and often destroys the progress," he added, citing his past experience in labor negotia­tions. 
The Student Government pro­posal is not yet finished, according to Bender, but should be completed by the end of the week. "We're trying to build a consistent model of justice," he said, indicating that the student government proposal wiii touch all levels of University disciplinary procedures in an effort to standardize regulations. 
The committee drafting the pro­posal consists of Bender, Joe Gill, executive coordinator, Steve Dane and John Talbott, judicial coordina­tors, and Patty Dondanville, Alum­ni representative. In addition, numerous faculty members' and students' opinions have been ask­ed. Bender said tha the SLC representative had been consulted on Sunday night. 
Student Government's plans in connection with the drafting of the proposal include a series of talks to be given by Talbott in the residence halls, to explain student rights under the disciplinary system as it 
the same night as a concert.  
Russell introduced John Rooney,  
the new An Tostal chairman, to the  
HPC last night. He also introduced  
Tom Soma, Student body vice  
president and Tom Gryp, Student  
Union director, who will report at  
future HPC meetings.  
Dan Haugh,' representing the  
Mardi Gras staff. announced that  
Mardi Gras this year will run from  
February 3 to 11. Since this is  
earlier than in recent years, Haugh  
noted that construction of booths  
will have to start on Jan. 21, the  
first day of the second semester.  
In some unfinished business  
from last semester. Russell an­ 
nounced St. Edward's Hall as the  
winner of the April Rockne Trophy.  
Alumni and Fisher halls were  
runners-up.  
The HPC will not hold a regular  
business meeting next week.  
Instead, members voted to attend a "beginning-of-the-year dinner" on  Concerned hall presidents [Photo by Kevin· Walsh]  met at the  HPC meeting last  night.  


Tuesday. 
ND housing problems eased 
by Michael Lewis Staff Reporter 

The effort to find housing for Notre Dame freshmen and transfer students is going well, according to the housing office. 
Fr. John Mulcahy, student resi­dence director, is out of town and could not be reached for comment. However, his office confirmed that all of the freshmen living in the Farley Hotel have found rooms. Also, the freshmen who lived with resident assistants in Keenan and Flanner have found rooms. 
However, the Farley hotel is not empty. "A few transfer students 
. are staying in the hotel of their own volition until they can find off-cam­pus housing," the office revealed. Office workers said that it would "probably be a while" before all of the students can find off-campus 
presently stands. The same would be done after the changes to be determined have been approved by the trustees. 
Bender also intends to take the Student Government proposal into the halls, once it is completed, to explain it to the students, and to feel out campus reaction to it. Another plan is to issue a Student Government Student Rights Man­ual, after the trustees have acted. The manual would rely in part on research done this summer by Dane at Georgetown, VA in the matter of student rights. 
The drafting committee wel­comes student input, Bender said, and students with ideas should call the Student Government office. Or, a separate proposal can be written up and submitted to the reviewing committee itself. 
·sPAGHETTI half 
With sauce 1.65 With meatballs 1.85 
PIZZA 
12 in. 14 in 

Cheese  2.55  3.05  
SausageMushroom  3.10 3.10  3.95 3.95  
PepperoniGreen PepperGround Beef  3.10 3.10 3.1 o  3.95 3.95 3.95  
Ham  3.1 o  3.95  
Onion  3.10  3.95  
AnchovyBlackOiive  3.10 3.10  3.95 3.95  
{Cheese plus any 2 items) 3.50 {Cheese plus any 3 items) 3.90 Cheese olus any 4 items)· 4.30  4.45 4.95 5.45  
Pan Pizza $1.00 extra  

housing. 
The original waiting list for campus housing numbered over 90 women and 180 men. However, this list includes a few students who decided not to attend Notre Dame, and others who have found housing off-campus. As rooms become available, the office refers to the waiting list to determine who still wants on-campus housing. 
To help reduce the overcrowd­ing, Carroll hall now houses under­graduates, and has been put into use as a permanent dormitory. 
Freshman Eileen Tarpey lived in the Farley hotel for a week before a 
Treaty language finalized 

Washington [AP] · The United States and Panama gave final approval yesterday the exact lan­guage of the proposed new Panama Canal treaties as President Carter began marathon talks with hemis­phere leaders gathering for the formal signing of the accords. 
Carter told reporters his talks with the visiting dignitaries were emphasizing human rights, nuclear proliferation, his hope for restraint in military spending and his desire to promote an improving quality of life in developing nations. 
The canal treaties will be formal­ly signed during nationally broad­cast ceremonies tonight at 6:30 
p.m. CST. 
The President said he hopes the new canal treaties will bring ''a new era of cooperation and equality of treatment'' among nations of the hemisphere. 
The meetings among the hemis­pheric leaders are billed as the first hemisphere summit conference in a decade. 
Carter's first Latin American 
·SPAGHETTI 
full 2.20 2.50 
room became available. 
"I thought I would have a room, but when I received a letter from Notre Dame, my room assignment was marked o-c," she said. 
She also said that the housing office said that a room would soon be open, and to stay in the hotel for a few days. Tarpey lived with five other freshmen in the hotel. 
"It wasn't bad living there, but we couldn't. unpack our suitcases. All we went down there for was to sleep and change clothes," she added. 
"We had bunk beds and our 
suitcases, and that was about it." 
visitor Tuesday was Panama's head of government, Omar Torrijos. Press Secretary Jody Powell, com­menting on Carter's busy schedule of talks with 19 government heads and other leaders, said Carter views the meetings as "an un­precedented opportunity for the enhancement of our relations with other nations in this hemisphere." 
The White House spolesman also announced that Carter will be lobbying for the canal agreements at a White House briefing Wed­nesday, for 70 prominent Ameri­cans many of them business lea­ders. 
The plans for the elaborate Wednesday night signing ceremo­nies contrasted with the simple State Department cermony yester­day marking agreement on the exact language of the treaties. The formal initialing of texts of the canal agreements was low-key and almost perfunctory. In a sense, however, this event culminated 13 years of often difficult negotiations. 
[continued on .-.e 7] 

~----------~-------------------------------------------------------------------------· 

*The Observer 
EDITORIAL BOARD 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's Mart1 Hogan Editor-in-Chief Martha Fanning Managing Editor Bob Brink Asst. Managing Ed.
The Obser'\ler is published by students of the University 
Kathy Mills Executive Editor
of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. It does not 
Maureen Flynn Editorial Editor
necessarily reflect the policies of either institution. The 
Barb Breitenstein Exec. News Editor
news is reported as accurately and as objectively as 
Tom Byrne Campus Editor
possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of 
Jean Powley St. Mary's Editor
the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters 
Katie Kerwin News Editor
.are the views of their authors. Column space is available 
Paul Stevenson Sports Editor
to all members of the community, and letters are 
Pat Cole Special Projects Ed.
encouraged to promote the free expression of varying 
David O'Keefe Features Editor
opinions on campus. 
BoxQ

Business Manager Sue Quigley 
Notre Dame 

Copy Editor Barb Langhenry Ind. 46556 Photo Editor Leo Hansen
Advertising Manager Steve Bonomo 
Production Manager Karen Chiames 
Wednesday, September 7, 1977 
P.O.BOXQ 
DOONESBURY by Garry Trudeau 
~--------------~ 
SAY. a:JN­
G/?&55/JkJMAN,MMPPF.. tdHIIT 7/M~ IS ff IJJHAT 
NflAJ?.. m<JN?.. NOON?.!
TIME IS WHAT?..5HC IT? 010? 
0 
Hunter's Case 
Again 
Dear Editor, 
I find the actions of the Notre Dame administration in the AI Hunter case and in the planned elimination of the student judicial board to be very disturbing. These actions have no place in what is supposed to be a Christian com­munity. 
In the AI Hunter case, the University followed their rules when they suited them, and the administration broke the rules when they did not. They did not let Hunter confront opposing wit­nesses when the rules stated that he was entitled to, and they flagrantly violated the established deadline for an appeal. Why have rules if they can be broken at will? How can students' rights be pro­tected when these rules are viola­ted at will? 
Since they ran into legal difficul­ties on the Hunter case, the University has decided to take no further chances. They will be able to control the judicial process without any students trying to defy them when they break their own rules. Froml now on, Dean Roemer will be both prosecutor and judge while keeping a facade of fairness. 
I find the actions of the Univer­sity very phony and hypocritical. Notre Dame will retain its veneer as a Christian community while its administration breaks its own rules and deceives its own students. If this University is trying to educate us to be mature, Christian adults, they certainly are going about it the wrong way. As so often seems the case, they are telling us that we are not responsible enought to make our own decisions and form our own value systems. Instead, we are left toj follow their example of deceit and hypocrisy. 

I am especially disappointed by fair chance to obtain a ticket and the actions of Fr. Hesburgh in this removed the opportunity of chaos­situation. He has built a national ing a seat location. Many spend at reputation as a Christian humanit-least part of their summers away, arian while his University treats its and occasionally a letter is lost in students this way. Charity begins the mail. Obviously a victim of at home, Fr. Hesburgh. , these ins!ances would have h~d no Pat Toomey Jr. -opportumty to apply for a ticket­l ' and they are sold out. The only recourse open to us is to pay $30.00 to be put on a waiting Ust for a padded seat." And if perhaps weJustice are granted a ticket, who will be sitting next to us? The enjoymentDear Editor: of basketball games is derived partly from the company of friends 
I believe that the removal of 

students from the university judic­. "uespite mese tew drawoacks to ial system is a lamentable miscar­the system, it is apparent that the riage of justice. The sanctimonious sale oftickets has been successful. 
remarks made by the Dean of Congratulations to the ticket man-Students and university trustees is ager for another misguided service-referring to students as the "prob­capitally executed! lem" in the judicial system betray an underlying distrust in the 
integrity of the Notre Dame stu­

Jayne Rizzo '79 dents. Unfortunately, the handful of people who learned the real 
shortcomings of the system Center Odor 
through participation in its most recent use are bound by confiden­

Dear Editor: 
tiality. We students have much to lose in this decision and I believe a 

In the Wednesday paper's reportfurther investigation into the mat­on the new laundromat for men, itter is warranted. 
was stated that LaFortune was unacceptable because ofthe "prob­Brian Diamond lem of unpleasant odors." This is fine-students shouldn't have to suffer unsavory smells while wash­
Ticket ing. 
But it this is the case, how can it be that off-campus students are expected to eat lunch with the odors, that formal dances take place there, that the entire student body is expected to take its leisure amidst the stench? (And don't let Dear Editor: me short change the cockroaches 
A grave injustice has been and sparsely-furnished areas.) rendered upon those of the Notre How is it that the people in the Dame community who have been administrative offices can continue deprived of basketball tickets to be so inconsistent? Awaken, through no personal fault. The Administration of Notre Darnel method of allocation through the The sun is shining and LaFortune postal system during the summer stinks. months did not give every student a Robert Jacque.' 
Injustice 


seriously, folks I!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~ 
The CIA Apologizes 
d 
------------~·_uart buchwal Washington--A federal judge has beautiful handwriting and I wish just ruled that the CIA must write a my children could write as well. Jetter of apology to people whose Your love letters to Mr. Cesar mail they opened in the United Randini in Rome were master­States. The Department of Justice pieces and should be published in a has suggested the text of the letter, book. The CIA would do it, but we which turns out to be a formal recently went out of the book apology in typical governmental publishing business. gobbledygook, which in my opinion We're sorry that Mr. Randini would not get the CIA off the hook. broke off the relationship by marry­1 think if the CIA really wants to ing Signora Carmelita Verdi of 14 show it's sorry for reading the mail Via Condotti, but you must take my of Americans they shoula make word for it that Mr. Randini is not a each letter a personal one, which one-woman man. All the time he would show that the Central Intel-was calling "his little artichoke" he ligence Agency has a heart. was spending his evenings at Here are a few suggestions of the Signora Verdi's apartment, some­types of letters of apology Adm. times leaving as late as four in the Stansfield Turner, the head of the morning. You are well rid of him. CIA, would send out to people whose privacy had been violated. Sincerely,
------I
Dear Mr. Mac Comber, 

Adm. Stansfield Turner 
You can't imagine how sorry all of us in the CIA are for reading 
Dear Mrs. Starbuckle,
your mail during the past 14 years. 

I am obligated by the federal 
It was an oversight which I assure 

courts to inform you that we have 
you won't happen again. 

been reading your mail and that of 
I regret your Aunt Tilly in Dublin 

your husband, whose trips to 
still has pains in her back. Our 

London, Brussels and Antwerp on 
medical team suggests she use a 

business have taken him out of the 
hot water bottle at night to relieve 
country six times a year.
the agony. Also, I think your son is 

I know you are suspicious that 
out of line when he says he wants to 

some of these trips are not all 
stay in Paris to continue his 

concerned with business. I can 
education. Our agents in Paris 

assure you that as far as Brussels 
report that he is not going to school 

and Antwerp are concerned your
but is spending all of his time at 

husband has been conducting com­
cafes. 
merce for his company.
The letter you received from the 

We are unable to find out exactly 
Carlsons in Venice telling you what 

what business he has in London, 
a wonderful time they were having 

unless his meetings with Lady 
was slightly exaggerated. Carlson 

Mathilda Macintosh of 1234 
came down with dysentery and 

Cadogan Square have to do with 
Mrs. Carlson's photographs of St. 

steel exporting. Our records show 
Mark's Square were all overex­

Lady Macintosh has never been in 
posed. 

the steel business, nor was the late 
We'll be happy to send you 

Sir Harold Macintosh, who was 30 
information on any other letters we 
years his wife's senior. 
read, if you want us to. I hope it 

Unfortunately, the bug we plan­
will make up in a small way for 

ted in the Cadogan flat has always what we do not consider an illegal been drowned out by Frank Sinatra undercover program. music whenever your husband has been there. Since we can no 
Sincerely Yours, 

longer, by law, follow this case, I 
Adm. Stansfield Turner 

------
might suggest you inquire about a London private detective who could Dear Ms. Halifax, 
investigate what Mr. Starbuckle
As you know the CIA was 
really does in London.
involved in a mail-reading pro­

In putting forth this suggestion,
gram, and for reasons which no one 

it is our sincere hope that you will
here can explain all your letters 

forgive the CIA for reading your
from abroad were opened and 

mail. And if anything good comes
scrutinized. You can't imagine 

we hope you will think kindly of the
have to remain nameless for secur­
CIA in the future. 
ity reasons, was responsible. After 

Sincerely,
going through his report on your 

Adm. Stansfield Turner 
mail, all I can say is that you have 


Wednesday, September 7, 1977 the observer 
5 



How much do you know about South Bend

Park indicted· on 36 charges 
Its needs, problems and wealth of offerings to Washington [AP] -A federal tion stepped up the pressure for The indictment of Park, a lion on 
you? What can you offer in return? 

grand jury has listed 27 present Park's return to the United States the Washington social scene until and former members of Congress from Seoul. he fled the country, was returned who allegedly assisted or received Atty. Gen. Griffin Bell asked Aug.26 but was kept sealed until money from South Korean busi­President Carter to contact South Tuesday. The existence of the 
NEIGHBOR HOOD

nessman Tongsun Park, accused of Korean President Chung Hee "to indictment was reported last week, buying favors on Capitol Hill with have Tongsun Park returned to the but details of the charges liave not the support of his government. United States." Tongsun Park "is been available until now: 
The indictment of Park on 36 now a fugitive from American Park was accused of conspiring 
ROOTS 

corruption•charges was unsealed justice and we would hope he from about 1967 to Dec. 31, 19751o Tuesday as the Carter administra-would appear for trial," Bell told a bribe members of Congress with 
An Orientation to the 

news conference. "We're ready to thousands of dollars ''for the go to trial immediately." purpose of inducing them to take 
South Bend Community

Scheidler gives Bell declined to comment on the official actions and make decisions possibility of future indictments favorable to the Republic of Koreascholarships against members of Congress. and the regime of President Park 
Thursday Sept. 15, 1977 

Fonner Rep. RichardT. Hanna, Chung-hee.'' a California Democrat, was named Hanna received more than
to ND students 
4:30-8:30

an unindicted co-conspirator in the $100,000 from Park, advised Park Notre Dame students who live in Park indictment and was pictured on which of his congressional 
-auto tour of neighbomoods 
-Traditional Fblish -Wedding Dinner

Indiana will benefit from a new as Park's right-hand man in the colleagues should be bribed and 
scholarship fund established by a alleged effort to buy friendly helped distribute the money, the 
-Film Presentation 

bequest from Benno M. Scheidler, congressional treatment of South indictment said. 
-introduction of community leaders 

an Attica, Indiana businessman Korean interests with lavish parties Two former directors of Korean and cash contributions. Central Intelligence Agency, Kim 
Sign Up in Dining Halls
and farmer. 

"We're in the season and we'll Hyung Wook, who held the job university president, announced have to see what the harvest will between 1963 and 1969 and Lee Hu 
Fr. Theodore M. Hesburgh, 
Wed, Thurs, Friday Sept 7, 8, 9 

that the Cecilia M. Scheidler and bring," Bell said. The indictment Rak, who followed him in the job 
Donation only $1.00

Benno M. Scheidler scholarships also named an unsuccessful con­between 1970 and 1973, were part have been made possible by an gressional candidate as having of the alleged conspiracy, the 
for more info call 1884

initial $200,000 distribution of Mr. received money from Park. government said. Scheidler's bequest to Notre Dame. 
Hesburgh expressed the Univer­sity's gratitude, noting the 64 per cent of Notre Dame's students require some form of financial aid to enroll and remain at the Univer­

UNITED BEVERAGE Co., INc.
sity. Mrs. June McCauslin, director of 

: 840 S. PRAIRIE AVE. • SOUTH BEND, INDIANA 46621 
financial aid, said that invested income from the Scheidler fund will enable scholarships to be awarded beginning in th~ 1978-79 academic year. Recipients will be chosen, 
September, 1977
she said, from among Indiana students who have been accepted for admissions to Notre Dame and who have a certified financial need. 

On behalf of everyone here at United Beverage Company -Welcome
Mr. Scheidler operated a Coco­Cola bottling franchise in Attica 

Back and Good Luck during the coming school term, scholastically, and was in the ice business. He 
athletically, and socially. also was engaged in farming and had considerable holdings as a 
To assist you in your party planning, large_or small, you may
landowner. Mr. Scheidler died on September 22, 1976. 

call our office 287-1067 or better yet, meet with your new "Beer Man on Campus" -BILL GAUDRAU. Bill's phone is 283-7454. 
Gabriel elected 

We have a selection of the finest draft beers available for your enjoyment (provided you are 21 -of course).
to Executive Body 
Dr. A.L. Gabriel, director of the 

BUDWEISER -The king of beers. 
Folsom Ambrosiana Collection at Notre Dame, was elected to the ge1:eral assembly of the Executive 
BUSCH -Sponsor of both Irish football and basketball. Body of the International Commit­tee of Historical Sciences, at the 
A-B NATURAL LIGHT -Won't fill you up so it won't slow
50th anniversary meeting of the 
you down.
committee held recently in the Canary Islands. MICHELOB -Truly the finest at any price• 
. REMEMBER! 

HEINEKEN -With that European flavor. 
Pick Up Your STROHiS -Still family brewed after 200 years -avail­
Free U.niversity 

able in regular or dark~
Course Schedule 

We also can supply beer cups, ice, taps and other items (posters,·
Tue. & Wed. 

etc., etc.) 4-9 p.m. LaFortune Ballroom 
Sept. 6, 7 

Don't forget these important numbers: 
YOU SIGNED UP LAST SPRlNG! 

Bill Gaudrau -283-7454 United Beverage Company -287-1067 
I personally look forward to meeting many of you, possibly over one of our golden nectars. I am,
Uhe l'Vit~jam mer 
-),":;L.,.. ?. fk. 
Matthew R. Dee President 
CREATIVE 
HAIR DESIGN FOR THE SEXES 

P.S. Beat Pittll 
REL~XING ATMOS~'RERE 
FREE HAm A;\{ALYSIS RK RETAR.CENTER 

1637 LWW So. Bend 232-6622 

Budweiser. MICHELOR BUSCH. 
Appt. •nty. 


-~---~----~ ­

john Flaherty and Enrique Lulli prepare for opening at the Nazz this Saturday night. [Photo by Kevin w.,lsh] , 
Nazz initiates '77 season on Saturday evening 
by Chuck Kaufman 
The Nazz, Notre Dame's music nightspot, will open its doors to the public this Saturday night at 9 p.m. Located in the.basement of LaFor­tune, the Nazz offers a relaxed and open atmosphere for getting to­gether with friends, while listening to live music and entertainment provided by Notre Dame students. 
The Nazz will be open Monday through Saturday from 9 p.m. until midnight, and will offer beverages and various foodstuffs for sale. 
, According to Enrique Lulli, director of the Nazz, the coffeehouse is intended to be an alternative form of nighttime entertainment for students. It is a place, he noted 
•'where you can go have a pizza and listen to good music," while enjoying the conversation and com­araderie of friends. 
A distinguishing feature of the Nazz remains its encouragement and almost exclusive use of live student entertainment. John Fla­herty, who is in charge of entertain­ment for the establishment, stated that anyone is welcome to perform on stage, either by signing up with him ahead of time, or by simply 
coming up from the audience to do 
-
a spontaneous number. flaherty encourages individuals and groups in all fields, not only in music, to share their talents with others at the Nazz. Anyone interested in performing may contact either Lulli at 1479 or Flaherty at 1575. 
The Nazz will open this Saturday night with an impromptu jazz jam, featuring members of the Notre Dame jazz comb_os. The ·jam is open to the public and Flaherty welcomes interested musicians to come and join in. 

at Saint Mary's College. ' 
Bellagamba is the first speaker a tO: scheduled for the 16th annual ' American Scene: A Cultural Series. & 
He is executive secretary of the ' 
United States Catholic Missionary t Council in Washington, D.C. and 
has extensive foreign mission ef• ~ perience. L 
'Neighborhood Roots' studi~s SB 
by John O'DonneU 

On Thursday, Sept. 15, the staff of Urban Studies will present Neighborhood Roots, an urban study of the South Bend commu­nity. The purpose of this program is to stimulate student interest toward the community of South Bend. 
According to Thomas Swartz, associate professor of economics and an instructor of urban studies, Neighborhood Roots provides an excellent opportunity for students to appreciate the variety of neigh­borhoods in South Bend. "A great deal of students remain isolated on campus," Swartz explained, "an<j do not know what exists outside of Notre Dame. South Bend is a vastly diverse city; poor sections and magnificent residential areas ate within several blocks of each other. Although the immense diversity does present economic and social problems, Neighborhood Roots intends to focus on the positive aspects of the South Bend community." 
Valerie Hardy, commissioner of Social and Interacial Concerns, stresses that this program intends to get students aware and interest­ed in community activities. "This program is excellent for students in urban classes," Hardy emphasiz­ed, •'and all students can find out for themselves what South Bend has to offer." 

Bellagamba starts t Any COLLEGE OF SCIENCE STUDENT t American Scene t INTERESTED IN REPRESENTING THE t series tonite t College of Science on the Academic t 
Father Anthony Bellagamba I I 
I.C.M. will speak on "Challenges ' Council should submit Name and brief t 
and Hopes From the Third World" ' on Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. in A S f p b f S I 
Carroll Hall, Madeleva Memorial : tatement 0 UrpOSe e Ore ept. 19th & 
ND Prof. Carberry named Winston Churchill Fellow 
was named Hays-Fulbright Senior of chemical engineering, has been 
Dr. James J. Carberry, professor 

Scholar at the University of Rome. named the Sir Winston Churchill 
A member of the USSR-USA Fellow at Churchill College, Cam­
Working Committee on cooperative bridge University, England, from 
research in chemical catalysis, January to June, 1979. 
Carberry's research centers around 
catalytic reaction engineering and 
Carberry has received several catalysis. He is the author of honors in recent years, including Chemical and Catalytic Reaction the R.H. Wilhelm Award in 1976, Engineering, published by Mc­the highest award in chemical Graw-Hill in 1976. He has taught reaction engineering. In 1974, he at Notre Dame since 1961. 
~-----------------. 
t t 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
' 
& 

Student Council ' 
~ t 
c/o The Office of Dean of Science 
I 

R 229 Nieuwland Science ' 
m ' 
j 
The program itself will consist of an hour tour of South Bend, scheduled to leave the south circle Thursday at 4:30 p.m. The tour will end at the ZB Falcon Hall, where members will partake in a traditional Polish wedding meal, consisting of chicken and Polish sausage. During dinner, several speakers will represent the ethnic neighborhoods of South Bend, which include the Polish, Black and Mexican-American communities. 
Following the meal, John Roos, associate professor of government, will present slides of neighbor­hoods that he has visited. At approximately 7:15, Swartz will give a brief analysis of the process of neighborhood decay. Then Prof. Thomas Broden will report on the justice issues in relation to Central City downtown spiral, sururban subsidies, the Institute for Urban Studies Strategy and the potential for student involvement. Following Broden Fr. Donald McNeill will explain "Urban Plunge" and the role of the Center for Experiental Learning. Finally, students Hardy and Barbara Frey will inform members of other opportunities for community involvement. The part­icipants will return to campus at approximately 8:30 p.m. 

McNeill, the Director of the Center for Experiental Living, hopes that through Neighborhood Roots, students might be able to have more of a social background to complement their academic stu­dies. "We have an outstanding staff institute of urban studies," McNeill maintained, "and this program is ·an excellent opportunity for students to appreciate the diversity of the community nearby. Member met last April to come up with Neighborhood Roots, and hope for more of this involvement in the future." McNeill also stressed that registration is open to all. 
Anyone interested in Neighbor­hood· Roots may register at the dining halls on Sept. 7, 8, and 9. Registration fee is one dollar, and enrollment is limited to 250. If there is an excess, a similar program will soon be constructed. 
~********************************* 
EGreyhound service to Chicago E 
E 
*
* 
* 
* 
* 
*
* 
* 
* 
! 
* 
* 
*
* !* * 
! 
one way $7.75 round trip $14.75 

* * 
! For info and tickets call Shep 8330 !* ************************** * * * 
is BACK! ! 
*
* 
* 
* 
* 
*
* 
* 
* 
CHICAGO ! 
* 
* 
* 
Every Friday this semester beginning Sept 9 *-l<­
Buses leave Circle at 5:05 !* * 
! 
'Campus Politics' 
is the cover story for this years 
Nutshell Magazine 
being distributed by your· Student Union. 
look for them in the lobb of 

ATTENTION OFF-CAMPUS SENIORS Interested in being a Representative on the Senior Class Council? 
Please contact Pat Flynn 233-6773 
or Mary lou Mulvihill 283-8067 
Drop in to the first council meeting 
Thurs. Sept. 8 7:00 pm 
Walsh Hall Off-Campus lounge 

Interested in writing for-the OBSERVER? 
SMC Reporter's Meeting SMC Observer office 
in the basement of Regina South 
WEDNESDAY, SEPT. 7TH 
6:30PM 
if unable to attend call Jean at 4001 ... ~··.: 
:-;.. .......... ......·.•. 
Wednesday, September 7, 1977 the observer 

Amin orders 12 public executions for treason 
Nairobi, Kenya [AP] -·President said the executions by firing squad assigned to cover the executions Anyuru, a fm:mer chairman of the Amin 's accession to power when he ldi Amin has ordered the public were scheduled for S p.m. Friday (9 and that any others who attempt to Uganda Public Services Commis­toppled former President Milton executions of 12 former ranking a.m. CST) under a clock tower on take photographs will do so at their sion and Ben Ongoma, a former Obote. Obote was out of the government and military officials the outskirts of Kampala, Uganda's own risk. leading businessman in Kampala. country at the time of the coup. convicted of plotting to overthrow capital. Among the 12 doomed men are They were convicted of treason It was the first public trial held in him, U~anda radio said yesterday. Lt. Ben Ogwanga, a former intelli­by a military tribunal on Monday Uganda. The radio reported scores 
The radio said official govern­gence officer; Y. Y. Okoth; J. and sentenced to death. Amin of Ugandans packed the city hall 
Broadcasts monitored in Nairobi ment photographers have been Olobo; A. S. Okidimenya; Abdalla signed the execution orders early daily to listen to defendants outline 
Treaty still requires ratification 

[continued from page 3] 
''We have come:: lO tne end of a very long road," said the co-chair­man of the U.S. negotiating team, Ellsworth Bunker, as he initialed the documents for the U S 
The initialing for Panama was performed by its chief negotiator, Romulo Escobar Bethancourt, and the Panamanian minister of educa­tion, Aristedes Royo. 
Escobar said this was a "very happy" occasion for him. 
Lawyers for the two countries had been working on Spanish and English language texts since the basic terms of the new treaties 
Copy Editor _ position· open 
Resumes for the position of Observer Copy Edit'br will be accepted until this Thursday at 6 
p.m. Those interested should sub­mit their resumes to Barbara Breitenstein, Executive News Edi­tor, in the Observer office, third floor of LaFortune. 
NOTICES 
Sewing repairs. Reasonable. Call 8051. 
Garage Sale: LDts of us<"1 furniture cheap. 1528 Spokane L..a1· Sept. 8th & 9th. 
Typing. Reasonable rates. Call 8051 
Going to Pittsburgh? LDoklng tor something to do Sat. after the game? Party at Hutch's. Stop by 224 Dillon for directions. 
All St. Mary's reporters for The Observer and anyone Interested in becoming a reporter -meeting ­Wednesday, Sept. 7 at 6:30p.m. in SMC Observer Office -basement of Regina South -beneath Language Department. Mandatory! 
Any desiring photos of Unda Ron­stadt taken in concert Monday, Aug. 29 (color or black & white) please contact John at 8:i40 or 136 Zah m 
Byzantine Catholic and Eastern Orthodox students at ND and SMC as well as any others interested in Byzantine church life should stop at the Campus Ministry Office (Mem­orial Ubrary, near ma.in entrance) before September 16 to sign the list at the secretary's desk. Attempts are being made to organize a Byzantine Christian organization. 
LOST& FOUND 
Found: On sidewalk 1976 Holy Cross preparatory class ring. Call Denise 4-5402. 
LDst: One pale yellow garment bag containing a woman's clothes be· hind Zahm or Keenan. Please call 8350. 
Lost: Set of keys on ring, between O'Shag-Ad. Bldg.-Huddle-Lib. on Wed. Aug. 31. Leather tab with blue flowers. Teresa, 7734. 
LDst wallet with ID Saturday night between Engineering Auditorium and Grace Hall. Useless to anyone else. Call Tom 6713. Reward. 
LDst: Skindiver watch with brown leather band. Please call Mike 8889 137 Zahm. 
Lost: Set of keys in brown case. Seven assorted keys, lost between D-1-Keenan-Walsh. PLEASE call 8051. 
WANTED 
Need ride to U. of Illinois this Friday. Beth 1822. 
Need urgently two roommates for Campus View apartment -Prefer age over 22 years. Call Henri 277-1983. 
Wanted 1-2 roommates S75-$50 per month. Utilities lncruded. Near west side. 288-9614. 
Urgently needed! 6 USC tlx. Will pay top SSS. Call Hutch 1692. 
Need two GA Pitt tickets. Call Paula 4-5732. 
Wanted: Babysitter tor 3-year old boy. Tuesday and Thursday from 1 
p.m. to 5 p.m. (or 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.) Near campus. 232-9541. 

were agreed to in Panama four weeks ago. 
The first treaty calls for the United States to relinquish to Panama all sovereignty over the Panama Canal Zone by the year 2000. The second recognizes that the United States can intervene militarily after that to ensure the neutrality of the canal. 
Recent polls indicate U.S. public opinion opposes _the accords by a narrow margin. : Carter has pre­dicted eventual majority support, however, and Wednesday's sign­ing ceremony and attendant sum­mit conference are designed to enhance prospects for Senate rati­fication. 
A two-thirds affirmative Senate 
vote is required to put treaties into 
effect. The signing tonight marks 
the end of the negotiating process 
but Senate ratification is necessary 
before the treaties go into effect. 
If the Senate ratifies the trea­
ties, another signing ceremony will 
be held, problably in Panama. 
Former President Gerald R. Ford 
Classified Ads 
NEEDED: MUSICIANS--Interested in being part of group to play for liturgies in halls-Sacred Heart. Call 6536 or 8832 between 9:00 a.m. and 5 p.m. 
Wanted: Two Pitt tickets. Call Bob 8330. 
Need Ga and student football tix to a_!1_Y home game. Call 8051. 
Needed: 1 or 2 student season's 
passes. Will 283-8063.  pay  good $$$.  Call  
Desperately tickets. Will  need pay  up top  to 5 dollar.  Pitt Call  

George 8689. 
wanted: M ich Jgan State tickets · General admission, preferably. Will pay $. Call 4-4001 and ask tor Jeanne or Mo. 
Desperately need one or two Pitt tickets for sister living in Pitts­burgh. Call Susan 6636. 
wanted: 4 Ga tickets for Southern Cal. Will pay good bucks. Call 1423, ask for Mike. 
wanted: 2 girls to share house. Call Franl 234-3730. 
FEMALE EXERCISE INSTRUCTOR WANTED. 3:00 · 8:00 p.m. Exper­ience in exercise, physical educa­tion, or dancoe preferred. Apply in person. New Profile Figure Salons, Inc. US 31 and Auten Road, South Bend. 
Need ride for two to Milwaukee, Sat. Sept. 10 Return trip if available. Call Steve 1037. 
Desperately need tickets to Michi­gan State and Southern Cal. Please call Marianne at 1262. 
Help Wanted: Service Station atten­dants. Apply at 4902 Western Ave. Clark Carwash. 
Need ride to Milwaukee Sept. 9. Call Mike-8946. 
Need ride for Pitt game. Willing to pay and drive. Call 1581. 
ATTENTION MUSICIANS! INTER­ESTED IN SHARING YOUR TA­LENTS? THE "CELLAR" NOW LOOKING FOR TALENT. CALL 3313 or 3338. 
Please. 1need tour Michigan tickets. Call Alicia 8117. 
Mature women with experience · wanted to keep house tor 5 guys 
with great potential and a big house. 
Please contact Tom Masano 289­9351. 
NEEDED: 1 or 2 tickets to Pitt game. Call Bill 8772. 
Student wanted tor light hoiJsework 3 to 4 hours per week. Good pay. Call 287-3574. 
will attend the signing, as a symbol of high-level bipartisan backing for the treaties. So will Mrs. Lyndon 
B. Johnson whose husband initi­ated the negotiations with Panama in 1964. 
Sailing Club meets tonite 
The Sailing Oub will hold an organizational meeting today at 
6:30 in Room 303 of the Engineer­ing Building. Members will be registered and activities explained to prospective members. 
L-essons are available free of charge to all members who want them. The entire fleet of Flying Juniors and Super Porpoises are available for pleasure sailing. For those interested in racing, the club offers a chance to compete nation­ally. 
All interested persons are wel­come. For more information contact Lory at 4-4720 or Bill at 288-3078. 
Julio's needs delivery personnel. Part-or tull-time. Guarantee $3.00 per hour. Call 233-2354. 
Frantically need 2 GA tickets tor Michigan State. Pay big bucks. Call Mike 1170. 
Need ride to Cincinnati or vicinity, Sept. 23. Call 6964. 
Wanted: 1 Pitt ticket. Call Ken at 1424. 
FOR SALE 

Navajo jewelry tor sale: choker and earring sets, silver and penshell hieshi with turquoise and coral stones. Wide selection -call Jim 6805. 
'73 Vega. 2-door. Inspected -black and white. $825.00. 234-5686. 
For Sale: Stereo reel to reel tape deck. 3 motors, 4 heads with Auto Reverse. $500 new. Asking $225. Call Pete 1182. 
adidas-"On Campus" complete line for all sports. Call Bill 3078. 
For Sale: Gold & White shag carpet. Room size. Call 8031. 
Dissecting sets, supplementary Chern, Bio textbooks. Science lab­ware, equipment, instruments. Call 8785 for more info. MERRELL SCIENTIFIC. 
For Sale: Small refrigerator in good condition .tor $70! Call 7066 and leave name and number. Will return call! 
For Sale: Girls 24" one-speed bicycle. Good condition. Lock In· eluded. $25.00. Call 7409. 
'72 Triumph Spitfire. Must sacrifice. $1300 or best offer. 232-3276 after 5. 
PERSONALS 

Looking for female student to share apartment at Castle Point. $85 per month. Call 272-1044. 
Are you a licensed pilot? The Irish Flyers offers you an economical way to fly. For information call 6634, 6485, 1731 or attend meeting Thurs­day Sept. 8, 4:30 in Rm. 105 Law School. 
LDwest rates on campus Time. Sports Illustrated. Call Tim or Bob after 5 p.m. 272-0239. Money and Fortune also available. 
Bill, 
You didn't blow In my ear, but I will 
follow you anyway . anywhere, any­
time, anything hmm? 
Cleo 

Gay Community of NO Gay Guide te ND-SB Sl.OO. Pandorn or Box 206 NO. Call 8870 Fir. & Sat. 10-12 p.m. 
To my Polish Princess, 
Happy Birthday. With you went the 
thrill of victory, and now I squander 
In the agony of detNt. 1fear I've lost 
the biggest game of my life. I only 
wlsll 1could forget. 
-The Italian Super-Jock 

5~;h;"~-;;-~;;k.-~v;-;al 
Snoops & Opl 
yesterday, Radio Uganda said. their roles in the move to oust "Life 
Two other defendants were also President Amin." found guilty of plotting against Amin announced the plot last Amin and were given 15-year Feb. 16 at a rally in Kampala. prison terms. Three of the alleged plotters con­
Two more were acquitted and fessed and one of them implicated freed shortly after the trial got Anglican Archbishop Janani Lu­under way in Kampala City Hall on wum. Aug. 22. Uganda radio announced the 
The accused had all pleaded next day that _Luwum and two of guilty to planning the coup which, Amin' s ministers arrested and then according to Uganda radio, al­were killed in an automobile acci­legedly was timed for last Jan. 25. dent'. Others sources said they That was the sixth anniversary of were murdered. 



the observer Wednesday, September 7, 1977 
Majors recalls Pitt's perfect start 
will open its college football sche­
by Tony Pace in the building of the program."
dule with this matchup. Majors
Sports Writer Overall Majors is extremly satis­
certainly believes this exposure is fied with what he accomplished at an asset to the game. He said,
During the past few seasons, the Pitt, with the national champion­
"Last year we were motivated
Notre Dame -Pittsburgh clash has ship being the brightest feather in 
because it was on television."

become one of the premier battles his cap. He feels confident that 
Majors believes this year's con­
of intercollegieate football. In fact, even with his departure the Pan­some would argue that last year's thers will remain a national football 
test will live up to all of its advance notices. "Pitt," he states, "has
31-10 thrashing of the Irish by Pitt power. He stated, "I left them 
good size and experience. Notre
was the Panthers most important with a great program. I gave them 
Dame's pre-season ranking could
victory in their national champion­national coverage and financial ship march. support. From the Sugar Bowl
be realistic. Their defense-is good In an exclusive telephone inter­and they have an improved of­alone they received $900,000. They view, Johnny Majors, former head fense." have a program to be proud of. coach at Pitt and now the top man worked to build that program.
This year's game is in Pittsburgh at Tennessee, commented on the and the home field advantage could Majors coyly avoided making a
, I 
Notre Dame-Pitt rivalry and the be decisive. "Of course," .Majors prediction on the outcome of this upcoming season. Looking back, said, "everyone would like to play Saturday's game, saying, "I know Majors said, "As important as the in their home environment. Notre I'm smart enough not to bet on rest of the season was, I felt Notre Dame has certain subway alumni football but I think it could go
wherever they go, but playing at
Dame was the most important either way." He added, "I hope
home will not hurt Pitt."

because it was the first game. it's a clean hard-fought game. I· 
They had a national ranking, The man who is attempting to fill hope Pitt shows well." tradition and prestige in national Majors' shoes at Pitt is by no As far as the whole season goes, football. I thought if we could win, means an outsider. Though Jackie Majors sees Oklahoma, Notre it would give us great confidence Dame, Michigan, Ohio State, Ala­
Sherrill spent last season as head coach at Washington State Univer­
and a chance for a great year." bama, Southern' Cal and Texas ··As we prepared for the game," sity he previously had been one of Tech as the teams most likly to vie Majors continued, "our biggest for national honors. He added
Majors'top assistants at both Iowa concern was how they (Notre State and Pittsburgh. Speaking of however, "Right now I am mainly Dame) might change from the year concerned with building a name for
Sherrill, Majors said, "he worked before. I also knew that it would not ourselves. IfI had some of the Pitt 
with me for eight years. He is one be easy to beat Notre Dame at players here at Tennessee we
of the fine asistant coaches I've home. You gotta have poise for the would do well." With an energetic
worked with. I certainly hope he 
noise.'' does well. He has a great start and and magnetic coach like Johnny An interesting feature of both he has a lot to work with. He Majors, it should not be long before the 1976 and 1977 games is that the Tennessee Vols return to their
doesn't have to build a program they have and will receive national like a lot of other young coaches place among college football's fin­attention. In 1977, as in 1976, ABC have to do. Also, he played a part est.

johnny Majors looks forward to his first season at Tennessee. 
Coaches Devine and Sherrill
*Observer 
anticipate Saturday's opener 
PITTSBURGH AP -Notre Uame Devine won't miss Dorsett, but bled over Notre Dame for 754 yards Coach Dan Devine has tradition to he says his team also won't be in four years at Pitt, including 303 uphold; Pitt Coach Jackie Sherrill a lulled by the absence of the yards as a junior and 209 as a 
national title to duplicate, but both Heisman Trophy winner, who ram-freshman. underplay any pressure they feel to Monte Towle:::=:=:=:=:=:=:=:::::::=:=:=:=:::=:=:=:::::=:::::::::::::=:=:=:=:=:=:=:::=:=:=:=:=:::=:=:::=:=:=:=:=:=:::::=:::=::: win their national televised opener on Saturday. ·'This is not a must game for us," says Sherill, who replaced The Underhanded 
Sports 
Women's tennis opens season Johnny Majors at Pitt. "It is a must game for Notre Dame. They
by Laurie Reising senior, sophomore Paddy Mullen, 
captain Diane Shillingburg, a jun­have been there. They're No.I in ·=·=::·:-=:=-=·=;:.:::;:-=·=·=-=·=-=·=':·=·=-=-=·=·::=-=-=·:-=-=·=·=·:·=-=·=·=·=·=·=·=·:·=·=·:-=·=:=-=-=-=·::::=-=:=-=Towle's rags
Women's Sports Editor 

preseason polls. And there's no 
Let me repeat this one more time. The University of Nevada-Las Vegas ior, and the first woman monogram 
way they'll be national champions 
has been slapped with two years of NCAA probation because of recruiting The 1977-78 Notre Dame wo­winner at do Lac, junior Mary 
without beating Pitt." 

violations within the basketball program. I bring this up because it hasmen's tennis team was chosen last Shukas. 
Devine, speaking by telephone to 
surprised me to no end that there are many sports fanatics here at Notreweekend following two days of The team opens up its fall season 
reporters gathered at the Pitt 
Dame who didn't even know it. Yes, indeed, Jerry Tarkanian's basketball 
tryouts. at home today when they face St. 
luncheon Tuesday, said: 

team will be absent form the television screen and the NCAA playoffs for Representing the Irish this sea­Joseph's College at 2:30. 
"Pittsburgh could be the No. 1 
the next two years.

son will be freshmen Laura and 
team in the nation. And they could 
Well Jerry, it's about time that the NCAA finally nailed you. After all, Sheila Kronin, Sioban Kilbride, 
have three first team All-Ameri­
every college basketball fan in the country has known of your guilt forSue Leinenger, Maureen Noonan Beat Pitt rally cans. It's going to be a good several years now. The papers told us that and it was only a matter of time and junior Ann Kelly. Also new to football game."
There will he a pep rally for the before the NCAA gathered whatever they did for convicting evidence.
the team are two transfer students, Notre Dame i'ootball team Thurs­Devine says he is guardedly Jerry Tarkanian was a convicted man when he left Long Beach State after Jean Barton, a junior transfer from day, September 8 at 6:10 p.m. on optimistic about his team, which the NCAA had penalized that school for similar reasons.
St. Mary's College, and Ellenor 
the steps of the Administration has most of last year's defensive He had to be guilty. How else could he have assembled the mostMcManus, a sophomore transfer Building. The event is sponsored unit intact. But he says that's exciting and explosive basketball team of the 1970's? Never mind thefrom Princeton University. Return­by student government. misleading because the defense possibility that he may be a great recruiter and coach. Jerry Tarkanianing netters are Ginger Siefring, a 
was not as good last year as it was was looking for trouble when he came to the gambling capital of the cracked up to be. country. I only hope that the NCAA will be equally aggressive in itsFootball ticket distribution "We gave up too many points. policing of all other schools in the United States. From Los Angeles to Miami, from Norman to Wichita. State your promise to keep your minds
We weren't quite as good as we 
Student football tickets for the open, NCAA. Say "Cheese" Johnson. That's from the Valley
blue punched athletic certification looked." 
1977 season will be distributed at card plus their student 1.0. Conference. Figure it out. He's guilty.
Notre Dame's secondary will 
On to the Reisman Trophy. Why? Well, the football season hasn'tthe ticket sales window on the Married students should not 
have five returning lettermen, all 
really started yet and already the "race" for the award has been narrowedsecond floor of the Athletic and obtain a ticket with their class. 
Convocational Center on the follow­Instead, present your athletic cer­starters at one time or another last down to about three or four names. Now, isn't that kind of unfair to those 
year. In all, 11 defensive regul~rs 
unknown players who will emerge from the 1977 college football season
ing dates: tification at the ticket office of the are returning.
Seniors: Monday, September· with outstanding performances? There's no way of knowing who is really 
ACC with evidence of your marital On offense, the Irish will have deserving at this time of year. 

12, 8:30a.m. to 4 p.m. status between 9 a.m. and 4 p.m. 
Juniors, Graduate, Law and all several new faces, including quar­It's really absurd. There could be a quarterback somewhere out there
on Monday, September 12, or 

students in their ninth semester or Tuesday Septem, ber 13. terback Rusty Lisch and wide in America who will pass for 4,000 yards and 30 TO's while rushing for higher: Tuesday, September 13, receiver Kris Haines, who Sherrill another thousand while leading his team to an undefeated season and a
On Monday, September 19, calls Notre Dame's most underra­berth in the Boardwalk Bowl. Only he won't have a chance against the

8:30 a.m. to 4 p.m. tickets will be distributed to 
Sophomores: Wednesday Sep­married students upon presen­ted player. likes of a Browner, Miller, or Cavanaugh. Tony Dorsett certainly tember 14, 8:30 a.m. to 4 p.m. tation of your receipt. Jerome Heavens, returning from deserved the award in 1976 but he had it in the bag even before he took the Freshmen: Thursday, September knee surgery, will start at fullback, field against Notre Dame last year. 
And in like manner, rumor has it that next month's issue of Sporting 
15, 8:30 a.m. to 4 p.m. while Tom Domin and Vagas 
Since the Navy game will be Golf tryouts Ferguson will be the halfbacks. News intends to feature prognostications for the Cy Young award of 1997. Leading candidates to be illustrated include six-year old change 
played on Saturday, October 29, Sherrill says he really has only 
during the fall semester vacation, a Anyone interested in trying out one halfback so far, Elliott Walker up specialist Tom Fidrych of Mt. Lakes, New Jersey and Mark Seaver, a 10 ticket for that game is not included for the Notre Dame golf team may who teamed with Tony Dorsett last year-old, flame-throwing righty from Oak Lawn, Illinois. do so on September 10 and 11. On There is another rumor going around that Hank Aaron's major league 
in the four-game season student year in Pitt's backfield. The other 
ticket. Tickets will be available for both dates contestants will play 18 starter will be Larry Sims, a homerun record has been broken. Now that's news to me. Who was this those wanting to attend the game, holes, being paired by their handi­5-foot-10 sophomore. super slugger? It wasn't Bench, Kingman, Schmidt or Foster according to free of charge for undergraduate 
cap. the rumor. No, it was reportedly a man by the name of Sadaharu Oh, a
Dorsett, now a Dallas Cowboy,
The final two rounds will be Chinese descendant who plays for Japan's version of a major league. 
students. 

said Tuesday he may fly to Pitts­
No student may present more played over a three day period on Someone, somewhere had the nerve to say that his recent hitting of
burgh after the Cowboys meet the 
than four certifications for adjacent September 15, 16 and 17, with the career horner number 756 had broken Aaron's record. Without going into 
Pittsburgh Steelers Thursday night 
seating. If you desire to sit with a pairings determined by the contes­details, Oh's record does not stand up to Aaron's. Let Aaron's record
for the Notre Darne~Pitt game.
Saint Mary's student whose class is tant's performance in the first two stand and keep Oh's mark in proper perspective, as a great deed in a the same as yours and who has rounds. The competition is played "If possible, I'd like to see the different league representative of a totally different culture. applied for a student ticket, she for one of the most prestigious game from the sidelines. If my Finally, Boston Red Sox fans had to be rejoicing following Monday's must accompany you to the ACC Notre Dame awards, the Notre presence can help motivate, that's action where the Bosox picked up a full two games on the millionaire club. 
ti,:ket window. . . 

Dame Gol~o .gfrne Medali.on, fine. But I don't know if I can help They took a pair from T9~~nto while the New York team was losing a pair
donatlld:hv · .........P._. • • .
All students must bring their from there," Dorsett ~id. to the Indians. Thanks for' your Indians, Patty. 




