

server 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's 
Wednesday, April13, 1977

Vol. XI, No. 110 
Bender explainsSLC reorganization 
by Tom Byrne Union. In addition, one out of every Another major alteration stated 
Uunpus Editor three meetings would be attended in the proposal concerns the selec­by the dean of students, the tion of student representatives for vice-president for Student Affairs, the council. Instead of electing one 
In an effort to fulfill one of his ad a representative from the Facul­representative from each quad and principal campaign pledges, Stu­ty Senate. one from off-campus, Bender aims dent Body President Dave Bender The SLC was created by the to seat four hall vice-presidents on will propose a major restructuring Board of Trustees to advice. the the council. Hall presidents would of the Student Life Council (SLC) to vice-president of Student Affairs, not be suitable to serve on the the Student Affairs Committee· of and was empowered to legislate council because of their job's heavy the University Board of Trustees. only in matters pertaining to Uni­workload. Bender described the 
According to Bender, the objec­versity rules and regulations. hall vice-presidents as "actively tive of the change is to narrow the Bender indicated that he intends involved in hall life," and added council's focus, enabling more for the Campus Life Council to that they would have sufficient concentration on issues related to assume a legislative role, drafting time to participate on the council. hall life. The two-page proposal proposals about issues such as this Although the affairs of off-cam­states that the SLC was established year's laundry problem. One of the pus students would not be a 
in 1968 to provide a forum for first points to be considered by the concern of the Campus Life Coun­discussion between students, facul­new council, according to Bender, cil, Bender Commented that the ty and administrators during the would be the passage of a set of SLC has rarely dealt with matters campus unrest of the late sixties, uniform guidelines for the opera­involving off-campus students. He and has since outlived its useful­tion of hall judicial boards. remarked that the problems of ness. Instead, the proposal calls The most significant structural off-campus students are most effi­for the creation of a representative change in those proposed by Bend­ciently handled by the Student 
body to "effectively deal with er involves the removal of five government Off-Campus Commis­student life," which at Notre Dame faculty members and the addition sioner, rather than by a council. is "centered in and around the of six rectors. The proposal Bender reported that rectors 
dormitories." describes the rectors as a "logical contacted yesterday about the pro­
In the view of Bender, the and necessary choice" for a council posal had expressed their support. present SLC has been ineffective dealing primarily with hall life. Each SLC member will also be because of its failure to produce Bender explained that the reduc­asked to review the proposal and definite proposals concerning cam­tion of the number of faculty submit a written evalauation to be pus issues, such as reform of the members to one attending once presented to the trustees commit­present alcohol policy. A major every three meetings also reflectd tee. advantage of a restructured coun­the narrowed focus he proposes. Vice-President for Student Af­cil, said Bender, would be "public "Faculty members don't live in fairs Bro. Just Paczesny has re­proposals," which could be con­the halls and don't really under­ceived a copy of the proposal, but sidered by the community, instead stand hall problems," remarked declined to comment on its content ' J. P. Russell was reelected chairman of the Hall Presidents' of confined to the SLC. Bender, adding that their unfami­until the members of the trustees Council last night at a dinner in Holy Cross Hall. He was 
If the board of trustees aproves liarity with hall life weakened their committee had an opportunity to unopposed for the position. [Photo by Kevin Walsh] 
the measure, the SLC will be credibility when dealing with hall read the proposal. replaced by a new body named the problems. He noted that faculty Campus Life Council, composed of members would be welcome to six rectors, four hall vice-presi­speak at meetings of the proposed dents, and a representative from council. Academic matters, added 
Mitchell calls for end 
Student Government, the Hall Bender, are the domain of Aca­Presidents Council, and Student demic Council. 
of black containment 
by Patrick Cole the audience to use their cognitive said that the problem can be 
Special Projects Editor processes to analyze and find the remedied by having a high unem­truth. Man has evolved so that he ployment rate. has the capacity-to collect intelli­"But isn't it strange that blacks 
Calling for an end to the con­gence, Mitchell said, meaning he have to be sacrificed?" Mitchell tainment of blacks in terms of can deal with and understand said, indicating that blacks would progress, Rep. Parren J. Mitchell, issues. "Is it intelligent to pass get put out of a job to fulfill this 
(D-Md.), chairman of the Black over a black and choose a white for goal. He, again, urged the Political Caucas, spoke last night at a job just because of his color?'' he audience not to accept things the 52nd Annual Dinner sponsored asked. unquestionably. 
by the South Bend-St. Joseph's "Man has the cognitive process "Like the death penalty," he Urban League. of having awareness and making pointed out, "from 1921 to 1961 judgements,'' Mitchell continued. when they had it in my state, and of 
The theme for the occasion was "Some ask how can there be a the 70 people executed, 62 of them 
"Job, Dollars, Race, Government.' 
containment of blacks with all the were black."
Almost 300 persons from the 
black mayors. But money was Mitchell also warned of the
South Bend community and other 
withdrawn from federal housing threat of cutting off communica­
nearby cities attended the dinner Don't tell us farprojects. how tions with black African nations.
held in the ACC Monogram Room. 
we've come! There's a policy of Mitchell considered the appoint­
An awards ceremony was also held 
containment of blacks right now." ment of Andrew Young, the former 
to honor local members of the 
Mitchell further stated that a Georgia legilator and civil rights
Urban League who had given 
policy of containment is reflected in leader, to the post of United
service. Also making an appear­
the low number of elected black Nations ambassador, an achieve­
ance was South Bend Mayor Peter 
government officials in recent ment in the fight against the
Nemeth who delivered the greeting 
years anrl in the statistics of containment of blacks. But thereremarks. 
income. 
are blacks who "are still ill-housed It was Mitchell, however, who Congressman Mitchell is cur­and ill-fed," he assured. 
brought the ceremony to its climax rently serving his fourth term in The blacks who hold power are with his brief message about the congress. He received his B.A. in the minority, he commented and true status of black America. He sociology from Morgan State in "no man, woman or child attains thanked the audience for being in Maryland and his M.S. from the opportunity until the minority helps or supporting the cause of the University of Maryland. Besides the majority, the masses of peo­
Urban League. Mitchell said that his activities in the Black Political ple." only 45 blacks have served in Caucas, he is on the Housing To cure the problems, Mitchell Congress so far, and that this feat Minority Enterprises and Economic said a lesson must be taught to 
was attained by 52 years of Development Committee, the Con­blacks. "We need to know how to struggle. gressional Budget Committee, the survive in this society," he said. 
chairman of the Task Force on 
need how to

Mitchell forcefully attacked the "Blacks to learn 
Human Resources, the Bank, Fi­sruvive in this economy." 
idea that most blacks in America 
nance and Urban Affairs Commit­In conclusion, the congressman
today do not have many problems. 
tee and is chairman of that com­said that the problem of the new
"Some people feel blacks have 
mittee's Domestic Monetary Policy containment will not be soved
made it, that they receive prefer­
Sub-Committee. 
without a love for one another.
ential treatment. So, then these 
. Mitchell further discussed the After his 20-minute speech, 
people go and join organizations 
need for people to use more there was a small reception for
like the KKK," Mitchell stated. 
cognition when considerin2 the Mitchell ~n the ACC MonogramTo prevent distortions about the inflation problem.Mitchell said that Room, where he met informallytrue status of black society, Mitch­one of the big problems today is 
with local members of the Urban 
. ell specifically urged the blacks in inflation, but some people have League. 


-

--~-----~~ 
-·---~----~---------­
f 
the observer 


----News Briefs--........ 
~===========National 
$375 million wasted 
WASHINGTON -A survey of travel by employees of three government agencies shows IS per cent of the trips violated standard approved federal travel. congressional auditors said 
yesterday. If the IS per cent figure is applied to the $2.S billion spent annual!\· on Federal travel. some $37S million of it is wasted, said Rep. J,tck Brooks. D-Tex., the chairman of the House Government Operations Committee. He requested the General Accounting Office travel investigation. 
.__Or1 Campus Toda!;'_. 
2-4 pm ­
3:30pm­
3:30pm­
4 pm­
4:15 pm ­
5:15pm­6:30pm­6:30pm­
6:45pm­
7:30pm· . 
8 pm­
8 pm­
8 pm-

free tax assistance program, nd accounting stu­dents. Iafortune ballroom. 
seminar, "environment-related failures of alloys" bv prof h uhlig, dept of metallurgy, m.i.t., ~pon~ored by dept. of metallurgical eng., rm 5 eng. bldg. 
lecture, "finite difference soloution of the navier­~tokes equation for unsteady internal flows" by prof. P krduse, director aerodynamics inst., tech, univ of ddtlwn, west germany, sponsored by aerospace & nw1 h. eng , rm 303, eng. bldg. 
lt?cture, •·the ethical justification of legal punish­n,ent' by vernon bourke, sponsored by amer. I' LJrnal of jurisprudence, rm 115, law school. 
readings, really good fiction series by george chan,bers, bradlev univ. prof., sponsored by english dept rare books rm., mem library. 
mass, for all world hunger coalition tasters, bulla shed, everyone welcome, short dinner. 
workshop, anxiety management workshop, spon­sored by smc counseling cntr., clubhouse. 
sailing club meeting, rm 204, eng bldg. 
meeting, al-alon fellowship for family and friends of those with a drinking problems, rm 400 mem. lib. 
american scene lecture series, "fidelity today" by germain chambers, bradley univ. grisez, philosophy dept , champion college, univ. of regina, canada, carrol hall. 
new direction lecture series, "changing relationship between business & government; the problems," by murry weidenbaum, sponsored by dept of econ, lib aud. 
sculpture exhibitions, sponsored by nd soft & metal sculpture students, fibers studio, old fieldhouse. 
lecture, "the 'loss of China " by prof. ernest may, chairman, history dept., harvard, sponsored by dept of history, lib. lounge. 
The first session of a student­

organized "Environmental Educa­
tion Seminar" at the University of 
Notre Dame will be held W ednes­
day (April 13) from 8 to 9:30p.m. in 
the Architecture Building 
auditorium. 
Patrick Horsbrugh, Notre Dame 

professor of architecture, will dis­
cuss environmental awareness in a 
lecture entitled, "Heavy is the 
hand of natural retribution." 
All interested persons are invited 

to attend the seminar, which is 
sponsored by the campus chapter 
of lnPJRG (Indiana Public Interest 
Research. Group). The program 
was organized, however, by a small 
group or architecture, biology and 
geology students whose bond is 
Hunger Coalition 
Mass time 

changed 

The World Hunger Coalition Mass usually held in Walsh hall will be celebrated today in the Bulla Shed at S:IS. The mass will be followed by a short dinner. 
Jordanian 
president 

to visit US 

AMMAN, Jordan [APl--King Hussein of Jordan will pay a two-day visit to the United States on April 2S to discuss the Arab­Israeli conflict with President Car­ter, the royal palace announced today. 
Informed sources said the king also will seek additional U.S. economic aid. 
Hussein is to visit France on April IS, then proceed to England before going to the United States, these sources added. 
In Washington, a White House statement on Hussein's visit said: 
''The President welcomes this opportunity to establish a personal contact with His Majesty, who this year is celebrating the silver jubilee of his reign, and to broaden further the long-standing ties of friendship that exist between the United States and Jordan.They will discuss fully all issues connected with the search for a just and durable settlement of the Middle East conflict, as well as other matters of mutual interest in our bilateral 



ND students organize seminar on environmental education 
8:15 pm . 'concert, dennis bamber, saxophone, lib aud., admission $1 
9:30pm • nazz, basement of Iafortune, john steinman and 
11:30 pm. mike caulfield, admission free. 
*The Obser~er 
Night Editor: Paul Schappler Asst. Night Editor: Katie Ker­
"'" 
Layout Staff: Joe Bauer Editorials Layout: Drew Bauer Sports Layout: Paul Stevei1­~on, Tom Powanda Typists: Mary Corbett, Kathy E:gbert, Anne Giere, Marianne 
Carr '· ,~ .. ~ Early Morning Typist: Martha 
f-<~nning 
Day Editor: Kate Flynn Copy Reader Chris "I want to go home" Datzman Ad Layout: Mike Miller Photographer: Jim Hofman 
1he Ob~ervpr" publ1shPd Monday I 

through Fndav and weekly dunng the sumrt1er sess1on. except dunng the Pxani and vacat1on penods· The Observer IS publ1shed b)· students of the Un1vPrs1ty of Notre Dame and St Mary s College Subscnpt1ons mav bP purchased for $20 per year (SlOper semester) from The Obser­vPr. Uox Q. Notre Dame. ln'd1ana 46~56 Second clas_s postage pa1d, Notre Dame. Indiana 46556 
The Observer is a member of the A-;soc1ated Press ·All reproduction nghts arp reserved 
1
I 1· ·~···f~/: .~""'-;~·~···". 

Tonite Wednesday 9:30-11 :30pm Mike Caulfield 
Thursday and Friday The Notre Dame Student Players and Social Commission present 

Play It Again, Sam by Woody Allen 
April 14th, 15th, . 22nd, 23rd 8:00pm 
in the Nazz 


Admission $1.00 

their conviction that environmental education must be a part of the high school curriculum. They believe the way to reach students is through their teachers, so they designed this five-session seminar especially for college education majors and current teachers. 
Other sessions will include: 

-A lecture on sensitivity, "Can we eliminate the obstacles to an environmental conscience?" by Dr. Kenneth E. Goodpaster, assistant professor of philosophy, W ednes­day, April 29, Architecture Bldg. auditorium, 8-9:30 p.m. 
-Fieldtrip to the Indiana Dunes National Lake Shore Park conducted by Jean L. Doyle, environmental education coordinator for the park, Saturday, April 23, 1-S p.m. 


-A methods session on integra­ting environmental problems into conventionally taught classes, by Jack Snell, environmental educa­tion consultant for the State De­partment of Public construction, Wednesday, April27, Architecture Bldg. auditorium, 8-10 pm.--A methods presentation on teaching environmental education outdoors by Prof. Donald E. Van Meter, Department of Natural Resources, Ball State University. Wednesday, May 4, Architecture Bldg. auditor­ium, 8-10 p.m. 
For further information, contact Michele Pfeiffer at 283-133S. 
Anyone enthusiastic about working on next year's Sophomore Literary Festival 
as chairperson or committee-member, sign-up tn room 309 <JShag. interviews soon, so hurry folks 

The Knights Men's Hairstyling 
Treat yourself the month of April with a styled haircut and blowstyle combination, and receive a free condition! It will give you back that natural sheen that the winter months have deprived you of. This is a $13.00 value for $8.50. 


MiaaJeanie MiaaConnie 
,~~~~~ ~uttn'!) (a!)tlt 
-....;: \ 54533 TERRACE LANE 
Tues., Wed., Sat. 8:30 -5:30 Thurs. & Fri. 8:30 • 8:30 

277-1.691. 
From April 1 through] une 14, you can fly roundtrip from 
New York to Luxembourg for only $410. 
That's $89 less than the youth fare you'd pay on any other scheduled airline. (From Chicago you pay $458 thru April 30 and $430 from May 1 thru june 14.) All you have to do is be under the age of 26. 
There are no b<X)king restrictions. We give you the same service you'd get from other airlines, without the same high costs. So, if you're not flying Icelandic to Europe, you're spending more than youhaveto. W:'llgiveyou the best deal on fares and on our New Horizon Escorted Tours. too. 
Save$89 on jet fares to Europe and b.ook anytimeyouwant. 
~---------------------,
Icelandic Airlines, !)>pt. #CN I P.O. Box 105, West Hempstead, N.Y. 11552 I 1 See your travel agent. or ca11 toll tree: (800 1555-1212. I 1 Please send information on Icelandic's low-cost fares and New 1I Horizon E.-;o:)rted 1()Urs of Europe. I 
I \ame I I _I ~~~ I I Cit~ State Zip --I LF~:_:ubje~o~a~.~l~l~~p~v;:_ __________j 






Icelandic 
Lowest Jet fares to Europe of any scheduled airline. 
-

·. \1. ~-'~ ·'ll..·,,:.. ,.,... ,· ·~ i" ·.~ 
Wednesday, April13, 1977 
the observer 
Carter confers with Russian ambassador 
WASHINGTON [AP) • Pesident "Good meeting," Dobrynin told before the coast guard seized U.S. proposals during a visit by rebels who, according to report, Carter conferred yesterday with reporters after the session. He Soviet fishing vessels off the Mass­Vance to Moscow on March 30. were partly armed by the Soviets. Soviet Ambassador Anatoly F. then rolled the window of his achusetts coast over the weekend But last Friday, Carter said he was A $9 million transport plane and dob.-ynin in an effort to resume waiting black limousine and in· where they were in aoparent encouraged by "private mes­some $4 million in radio and other discussions on a treaty limiting structed his driver to proceed. violation of the 200-mile U.S. zone sages" he has received from Soviet U.S. equipment were granted to nuclear weapons. On the U.S. side, a brief state­established last month. party leader Leonid I. Brezhnev Zaire, but the White House sought · 
The 40-minute session at the ment issued by White House press While there was no formal since the rejection." to minimize the Soviet interest in the 
White House was held against a backdrop of a dispute over appar­ent Russian violations of new American fishing regulations. But 
U.S. officials said this was only "touched on" and that the concen­tration was on arms. 
Student Gov't 

sponsors forum 


tonight 
Jake Morrissey Staff Reporter 

A Student Government Forum will be held tonightat6:30 p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom. "Its purpose," according to Dave Bender, student body president, "is to allow students to voice their complaints. During the campaign, people told us that the student go\·emment doesn't give students an opportunity to talk to them. The 
forum is one way of fighting this." 
Some topics that Bender antici­pates will be considered are: student justice, student parking regulations, noise in the library, and the problems confronting· area bars and their owners. 
Bender, however, is quick to add that "there are a lot of talented people here at Notre Dame. I think we should give them a chance to articulate their views." 
Any student able to attend is urged to do so. 
aides said that there had been "a constructive and useful discussion of U.S.-Soviet relations, which included strategic arms limitation." Attending the session, Carter's first with Dobrynin since the break­down in weapons negotiations, were Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance, national security adviser Zbigniew Brzezinski and Robert Hunter of the National Security Council staff, who took notes. Emphasizing the meeting's im­portance, White House spokesman Rex Granum said the two sides "were anxious to meet" in order to update U.S.-Soviet relations. . Dobrynin's call was arranged 
agenda, a possible topic for discus­sion was sending Paul C. Warnke, the U.S. arms control chief, to Geneva this month to renew wea­pon discussions before Vance meets with Soviet Foreign Minister Andrei A. Gromyko in May. 
The two sides have yet to !>'et a precise date for the Vance­Gromyko talks, which are likely to be critical in the effort to reach an agreement to limit nuclear wea­pons and take some steps toward general disarmament. 
Carter has said if they are unproductive and the Soviets do not negotiate "in good faith" he would be forced to consider step­ping up U.S. weapon development. 
The Russians rejected two sets of 
Of Freshman Writing 

Kline appointed dean 
Kathleen .COnnelly 

Dr. Edward -Kline has been named to the new oosition of dean of Freshman Writing. The appoint­ment by Dean Isabel Charles of the college of Arts and Letters will be effective next fall. 
The new position was created to facilitate interaction and communi­cation between the Freshman Year of Studies Office and the Depart­ment of Freshman Writing, and also within the department itself. 
Previously Freshman Writing was divided into three different offices headed by Dr. Donald 

A live rendition of Woody Allen's "Play it Again Sam" is to be performed in the Nazz April14, 15, 22, 23. Curtain time is 8:00 pm. [Photo by jim Hofman] 

Last of the burglars 
Liddy sentence commuted 
WASHINGTON [AP] • President Carter commuted the 20-year pri­son sentence of Watergate burg­lary mastermind G. Gordon Liddy to eight years yesterday "in the interests of equity and fairness." 
Thus, the 46-year-old Liddy will be eligible for parole on July 9 after having served a tptal of SO months. Thirty-two months of that time counts toward his main sentence; the other 18 months were for refusing to testify before the Watergate grand jury. 
"I'm grateful to the President for commuting my sentence and bring­ing it into line with the sentences received by Mitchell, Haldeman, Ehrlich man and Hunt," Liddy told his lawyer, Peter Maroulis. 
/!>. prison official said that after Liddy was informed of the commu­tation, "he was smiling and looking 
· better than I've seen him. He told me, 'Now I've got what the rest of them have got."· apparently a reference to the shortened se:t­tences of the others. 
Liddy's wife had just ended a visit with her husband at the Allenwood, pa., minimum security institution and heard about the commutation on the radio-while driving home. 
"She told me, 'Thank God,"' Maroulis said. · 
Once Liddy is released, all the participants in the June 17, 1972, burglary at Democratic party head­quarters in the Watergate office building will be free. · 
E. Howard Hunt, Liddy's lieute­nant in the botched burglary, was released Feb. 24 after serving 32 months and now is on the lecture circuit. James W. McCord, the burglary squad's electronics ~an, served four months and moved to Colorado. The foot soldiers in Watergate, four Cubans from Miami served slightly more than one year each and recently received $200,000 from Richard Nixon's re-election committee as settle­ment for being duped. 
But John d. Ehrlichman, the second-ranking Nixon aide con­victed of covering up the Water­gate affair, is serving a minimum 21/2-year sentence in Arizona. Former Atty. Gen. ·John N. Mitchell and H.R. Haldeman. Nixon's chief of staff, are awaiting Sniegowski who will be on leave next year. Freshman Composition and Literature was directed by Sniegowski, Freshman Seminar by Frederic Syburgh, and Humani­ties Seminar by Dr. Joseph Duffy. Both Syburgh and Duffy will be assisting Kline next year. 
·'The creation of one post from three will eliminate, not create, bureaucracy, and also simplify operations." Kline said. 
Kline plans to make available to teaching assistants in the Fresh­man Seminary Program a course in teaching writing and grammar. Although the course will be manda­tory for all teaching assistants majoring in English, all teaching assistants will be encouraged to attend. 
The goal of the Department of Freshman Writing is to increase the writing skills of Notre Dame students. 
Get your Dome! 
The 1977 Dome will be distri­buted today through Friday, from 1 to S p.m. in the parking lot behind the Huddle. Students should first bring their ID card to the LaFor­tune Ballroom an~ pick up an IBM card. The IBM card should then be exchanged for a yearbook at the trucks behind the Huddle. Plastic protective covers will be sold in the Ballroom for SO cents. The yearbook will be on sale at the beginning of next semester for non-students and those not eligible to receive their yearbooks now. 
word from the Supreme Court on whether they, too must serve their 2'12-to 8-year sentences. 
Without presidential interven­tion, Liddy would not have been eligible for parole until May 1, 1981. 
Deputy White House Press Sec­retary Rex Granum said the president commuted Liddy's sen­tence "in the interests of equity and f!lirness based on a comparison of Mr. Liddy's sentence with those of all others convicted in Water­gate-related proceedings.'·' 
Liddy was given the harshest sentence, six years, eight months to 20 years, by U.S. District Judge John J. Sirica. He also was fined 
$40,000. . Carter's commutation order did not lift that fine, but Granum said Liddy could win parole without paying it if he is able to take a pauper's oath. But Granum said that if Liddy's financial fortunes improve subse­quently, he will have to pay all or part of the $40,000. The Ford administration did not . 
act on Liddy's petition for
clemency. 
Hours earlier, the State Depart­fighting. ment announced that the adminis­"We do not see the situation as tration was rejecting Zaire's re­an East-West confrontation," quest for "lethal" equipment to Granum said in a statement pre­combat an invation by Katangan pared for him by higher officials. 

$800 a month Summer Interviews on campus: April 13 Wednesday 
At the International Studen 
Lounge (no calls please)  
basement of La Fortune  
12:00, or 3:00, or 6:0Q:>m-­.-.  /""""at?Av._....: ·~  ~~~  


Please be on time Don't dress up~ 
FRIDAY The fabulous 


APRIL HAilEm 
15th 

8:00 P.M. in person! 

NOTRE DAME A. C. C. 
Ticket Prices: 
Tickets on Sale 

Bleachers ......... 13.50 
Lower Arena 
1

Daily At the ACC, (End Court) ........ 5.00 
Lower Arena9-5 (Side Court) ....... 16.00 

N.D. & S.M.C. Students , Faculty, r,­
· 

and Staff $1.00 off all tickets! 1<· Y' -·-·---·---··---------~~ . ' 





N\INISTRIE5 
IN THE 

CHURCH 

THSMf Of A f<fTR£ATI 
AI· C>LD -coLLEGE "fl-\1~ WfEKc~P FRlDAY NtGi41 ~ 5ATURDA1 A.M. APRiL 15 ~ II. all 
fEe: •z..~ :::::; &I~ UP NOW .-CAAPtb Ml NlSTRY . OfFI~E -I...I BP..Att.Y . 
i---------------------------------;
·~~~~~~~2nd Annual~~~~~~~~ 
'BULL MOOSE PARTY .!I 
I


Elkhart Electric Orcuit. I I 

YOU GET: LIVE MUSIC BY "SAGE" ALL THE BEER YOU CAN DRINK $.25 MIXED DRINK HAPPY HOUR FREE BUS TRANSPORTATION 

r Happening this Friday, April 15, 
at 9pm till 1am 
.All this for only $3.00 per..person 
TIX AVAILABLE+FLANNER LOBBY, l-UNCH AND DINNER SMC SOCIAL COMM. OUTLETS 
·····~·---~~~~~~~ 
'--•,••--•..•.,·----·--•·________....._.....,.-._ _. 









~*The Observer 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and ·st. mJry's 
The Observer is published by students of the University ot ~otre Dame and St. Mary's College. It does not neces~anh retlect the policies of either institution. The ne\\ s 1~ reported as accurately and as objectively as poss1ble Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters are the\ 1e\\'S oi their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and letters are encouraged to promote the free expression of varying opinions on campus. ­
Box QBusmess Manager , Sue Quigley Notre Dame

Advertising Manager Steve Bonomo Production Manager Karen Chiames 
Ind. 46556 

EDITORIAL BOARD 
Marti Hogan Editor-in-Chief Martha Fanning Managing Editor Bob Brink Asst. Managing Ed. Kathy Mills Executive Editor Maureen Flynn Editorial Editor Barb Breitenstein Exec. News Editor Tom Byrne Campus Editor Jean Powley St. Mary's Editor Katie Kerwin News Editor Paul Stevenson Sports Editor Pat Cole Special Projects Ed. David O'Keefe Features Editor 
Copy Editor Barb Langhenry Photo Editor Paul Clevenger 
Wednesday, April13, 1977 

ooinion 


We're KillingOurselves 
::::::::::==========~:mike richfer 
Do animals have free choict'? Most scientists say no, animals c\o that which best insures survival. Animals learn to do what they msu~ do to survive. This is sometimes called the "Survival Instinct." 
Gradually technology has allowed human beings to distance themselves from nature and there­fore from the immediacy of making decisions for survival. Today's day-to-day decisions are usually not made with life or death consequences in mind. Our survi­\'al instinct has been weakened because we are no longer as dependent on it. Technology has given us the option of acting in a manner harmful to our existance as a species. 
One example is the full-blown bloom of our throw-away mentality, especially in the U.S. We now make "easily disposiable" every­thing: bottles, cans, even diapers. Use is once, throw it away, and forget it, right? WRONG!! After we throw them away, many materi­als do not break down in nature. The styrafoam cup you put your coffee in today has the potential to be around in its same form 2000 years from now. In the year 2047 it could conceivably still be found where you left it; thrown away, but not disposed of; forgotten, but not gone. 
It might be noted as a sidelight that we have begun to extrapolate this easy throw-away mantality to many things. Witness that our broken-down factories, our wasted strip-mined land, our bombed-out cities. our senior citizens tucked neatly away in their homes, and even our marriage partners. are used for what they are worth, then conveniently thrown away. 
Until recentlv humans have al­ways been able -to cut down forests, pollute streams, use up land in one place. and go to another place. 
There areno more new places now. If we are to survive, we, the people of the world must learn to over­come our throw-away mentality. We must learn to make responsible environmental decisions or suffer nature's slow, but unrelenting wrath. 
A responsible decision is a decision that takes into considera­tion (among other things) the cause and effect of nature. Any decision that leads to the systematic des­truction of the natural order of things is a bad, irresponsible decision. Decisions which seem easiest in the short run often turn out to be the most dangerous in the long run. Smart decisions leading to the best long-term results are often the hardest to implement and are therefore fought by the short­sighted indurstrial profit-motivated concerns which dominate our lives today. 
For example. an auto manufac­turer (the poor maligned auto industry) has the choice to research and eventually produce non-pollu­ting electric engines. It would cost a bundle. In the short term, it is easier for the company and the stock holders to dump electric engine research and to continue making combustion engines at the highest margn of profit possible so they can the research. In the long run, it turns out that the combus­tion engine created smog, forcing ail their prospective car buyers to live under protective glass domes. They can breathe, but they can't have cars. The company will have made an "easy" short-term deci­tion that led to its demise. 
This is a dramatization of my point (I hope) but the point is clear. We have to worry about what we do 
to our environment because our actions will effect us. Ifwe insist on polluting the environment of which we are a part, we face the real possibility of not being able to live in our surroundings. 
Our dependence on technology hinders our capacity to see cause and effect relationships. I'll never forget the guy who came out of a closed up. crowded, chokingly smoke-filled room to the porch where I was gasping for breath. He was also quite relieved to be outside in the fresh air. He sighed, said, "Ah, fresh air!" and prompt­ly lit up a cigarette (the cause of the smoke in the room). I'm not sure if he was blind, irrational, ignorant, or just plain stupid. What scares me is that he might be a typical example of our level of awareness. 
We have got to become more aware of cause-effect. Dr. Hors­burgh will be speaking directly on this topic tonight in the architec­ture auditorium at 8 o'clock. His talk, entitled "The heavy hand of natural retribution," will kick off InPIRG's environmental seminar. 
I recommend it highly because, like it or not, we are all part of a whole. We have to learn to look harder to see what effects our actions will have on our environ­ment. Concrete buildings and plas­tic cups get in our way, smog ruins our focus, but we must correct that focus and sharpen our dulled instincts. Short-term "solu­tions" will not save us. We've got to think in terms longer and larger than even our own life-times. This isn't easy, but it must be done. 
The problem is not only a large corporational problem_ It is our problem. It is a matter of individual responsibility and individual awareness. If we are not able to stem the tide of pollution, or are unwilling, or simply don't believe that pollution could kill us as it kills fish and birds, we are liable to wake up one morning and find we have joined the 262 animals already on the endangered species list. 
Parental thoughts 

Dear Father Hesbwgb: 
I would like to put forth some parental thoughts regarding the limiting of tickets for the May commencement mostly made nec­essary because of President Carter being present. 
Some four years, twenty thou­sand plus dollars ago, and after much hard work by our son, he will be getting his cherished (and ours!) degree from Notre Dame Univer­sity. His mother and I will be there, but the plans fro his six siblings to witness this event are apparently shattered. 
I feel that the most important person on commencement day should be the graduate and the whole family should experience the whole event! Unfortunately Presi­dent Carter's presence restricts the family's happy event. 
I would like to record my 
resentment on the plans that are 
being formulated -after all, wasn't 
it President Carter himself who 
referred th to unity of the family!! 
C. John Stecbscbalte, M.D. 


Editor's Note: The Observer's counterpoint on collective bargain­ing (April 5) contained several typographical errors. The senten­ces are reprinted below with the deleted portions in parentheses: 
Dr. John Lyon's article contained a sentence which should have read "One feels safe in this polyimagis­tic configuration: ot e can choose the best or the most useful (image for a given occasion. But unioniza­tion reduces all these) images to one... " 
Prof. John Lucey's article con­tained a sentence which should have read, "The institution of another bureaucratic layer between the faculty member and the admin­istrative structure would make it more difficult, rather than less, for the faculty and administration (to institute changes in curriculum, teaching methods, administrative) procedures; etc., to improve the learning process in a timely fashion." 
It should also be noted that three of the articles (by Dr. Lyons, Dr. Shaffer and Prof. Robinson) were slightly edited because of space limitations. . 
The editor would like to thank these gentlemen and Professors Ross and Manier for their contribu­tions to the Point-Counterpoint feature. 

=====::::;;;;:::;;;;dave bender 
There is one aspect of Notre Dame which sets it uniquely and distinctly apart from almost all other colleges and universities in this country. This one difference is the emphasis placed on community living and the fact that life at Notre Dame is centered around the halls. In fact, it is this very difference that Notre Dame is proud of and boasts of in admission and alumni litera­ture. Moreover, the famous Notre Dame "spirit" is said to be a product of our close community living in and around the dorms. Therefore, it is important that hall life here be maintained and expan­ded. If we allow a deterioration or stagnation of this life then we are in danger of losing one of the most fundamental aspects of Notre Dame, indeed that which makes this place "Notre Dame." 
Hall life, like any other kind of life, changes with the times. There­fore it is essential that we have a group on campus that is primarily responsible for a high level of community living within the dormi­tories. The sad fact is that there already exists such a group, but for the most part it has been ineffec­tive in dealing with this area. 
During the past three months, and especially the last few weeks, we have been researching the Student Life Council (SLC) to determine first, if it has been dealing with student life (what constructive and tangivle changes or improvements it has made, etc.), and secondly, to find out if the SLC has in fact been ineffective. 
Our findings (to be presented to the board of trustees on Thursday) reflected the latter view. During the past five years of existence, the SLC has done. little to aid, modify or influence the student life at Notre Dame. As a result, theStudent Life Council no longer deals with stu­dent life. 
However, once having discov­ered that the Student Life Council has not dealt effectively and con­cretely with student life, we are faced with three options. First, we can keep the SLC as is, hoping that somehow from somewhere a spark will ignite some type of action and involvement in· dormitory living. Another possibility would be to abolish the body, admit that its time is finished and give it a quick and efficient burial. Either option is unacceptable, however. Who is to say that a body that has had five years to do something constructive will turn itself around in a year? More importantly, should we abo­lish the SLC entirely we would have no group primarily responsible for maintaining good community life on this campus·. We feel that the answer to the SLC and the campus life dilemma is to restructure the body around individuals who deal more directly with student life in the halls and desire an opportunity to make constructive proposals on how to improve that life. 
We propose to restructure the SLC around dormitory life. and thus rename it the Campus Life Council [CLC) The newly-created CLC will consist of Rectors (six), Hall Vice-Presidents (four), Stu­dent Goverm.nent Representatives (three) and Ex-Officcio members of the Administration and faculty senate (three). In tomorrow's Observer, I will explain more fully the reasons for each choice. It is important now, however, to note that we have excluded Off-Campus representation on this council, primarily because we feel off­campus life is essentially different from campus life and thus deserves different attention and considera­tion. By dividing the areas of concern, proposals unique to those areas are more feasible and applicable. 
The need exists for an active and credible CLC . There are halls that are seriously hurting for lack of social space. In other halls the disciplinary procedure is archaic and breeds discontent and disunity between members of the hall and their hall staffs. Some halls offer little more than a place to sleep and study which, in our mind, does not manifest community living in the true sense of the word. 
We cannot promise that our CLC will solve all the problems that currently exist in dormitory living at Notre Dame. We do not feel that the restructured SLC is the end-all solution and will provide us with all the answers, etc. What we do feel will happen however, is that a serious look (perhaps for the first time in awhile) will be given to HALL life. In addition, there will be some concrete proposals on how to improve that life made to the administration. Whether or not the administration chooses to accept and implement these ideas is anyone's guess. The important thing is that suggestions are being made by people who are in the best position to make them. Neither one of these holds true right now and we would like to change that. 
Our goal is to maintain strong community life here. We feel that the Campus Life Council will be essential in improving and foster­ing good community life and strong community spirit at Notre Dame. We ask for your support in achiev­ing this goal. 
-
Y£5, ANY COUNTRYfJJ5E/?.VIN6 7JIE l/.N.'5 13 FUNI¥IMEJJTAI­R/6J./75/S &/..16181£ I?JRONE CF 7JIES£HAN/)S(J+IE IIUMAN \ 1?161/TS 7l<d'1ll&5 
IIE'UsttWBC PfQiSENTIN6! 
--I .


-----... .~--it
' 1) ;· 1

' ll? 1.1 \\ ,.. /I l :;;:,: 
Wednesday, April 13, 1977 the observer 
Strife continues after end of Lebanese war 
BEIRUT, lebanon [AP]--Two years ago today war exploded in Lebanon, the opening act of a bloody tragedy that the country's leaders and people are trying desperately to forget. 
Government censorship forbids any mention in the Beirut press of the artillery battles still sputtering along the southern border with Israel between Palestinian guerril­las and Christian militias. 
From conversatons with a broad range of Lebanese it appears most people would rather not know about the continuing fighting any­way. That would intrude on efforts to pick up where everyone left off before "the events," as the civil war is politely called here. 
The events began April 13, 1975, 
with a Christian ambush on a 
busload of Palestinian refugees. 
They ended, at least for the time 
heing, when Syrian troops occupied 
most of the country last November. 
In the meantime, about 40,000 
persons were killed, most of them 
civilians, and the city center that 
once made Beirut the hub of 
oil-based Middle East commerce 
was reduced to rubble. The battles also created a chasm of hatred between Moslems and Christians, despite frequent protests from both sides that sectarianism was not behind the war. 
The director of the Information Ministry, Ramis Khazen, is still unable to get to his office because he is a Maronite Christian who 
helped with Christian war  propa­ 
ganda  and  his  ministry  is  in  
Moslem territory.  

A head accountant in the same ministry, George Abu Rizq, also stays in Christian territory and confers with his office by telephone from temporary headquarters in Christian-held east Beirut. 
"It's too bad," one of his colleagues says. "We were the only ministry split up that way." 
Reminded that the Army and Defense Ministry split into Moslem and Christian forces, and that the foreign-ministry at one point had competing Moslem and Christiqan ministers, she replied, "Oh, yes, of course, but that was during the events.'' 
A Christian leftist party official who ran into a correspondent near the southern battle zone launched into a speech designed to prove that participation of his party alongside Moslt.. fflrces demon­strated that sectarianism had nothing to do with the war. 
He said nothing of the Christian militia thugs who kidnapped sev­eral hundred Moslems on the strength of their religion and killed 150 of them on Dec. 6, 1975, the "black Saturday" that sparked a new round of the war, one of many spread among numerous failed truces. 
Also conveniently forgotten were the hooded Moslem hoodlums who regularly stopped cars just entering the Moslem zone after a dangerous sprint across no-man's land. Dozens of Christians who had made it safely that far were shot and their bodies thrown under a nearby bridge, minus money and valu­ables. 
Most Moslems are still afraid to go into Christian territory. The same is true for Christians keeping out of Moslem areas, but to a less-er degree. 
The right wing of Lebanon's 
For members of Congress 
Payraise procedure altered 
W ASIDNGTON [AP]--President Carter signed a law today that ensures that Congress • gets no 
future  pay  raises  without  first  
voting on them.  
The law also  resurrects  a  pro­ 

gram which expired March 31 to provide emergency benefits for the 
long-term unemployed. 
The new pay raise law will retain the special commission to make recommendations to the President on pay raises for Congress and other top officials and the President still will have the decision on whether to submit the recommen­dation to Congress. 
But both the House and Senate then will have to approve the increase by a roll call vote before it can go into effect. Under the old law, the hike automatically went 
SMC gets $100,000 grant 
Anne Bachle 

he Frank Freimann Charitable Trust has offered $100,000 to St. Mary's College for the new sports facility, announced Clyde Remmq, Director of Foundations and Gover­ment Relations at St. Mary's. 
"We're excited about the contri­bution because it presents a chal­lenge." said Rem mo. The money 
Apply now for SU posts 

All those interested in applying for Student Union commission posts should either pick up an application form from the Student Government office secretary or submit a summary of qualifications in writing to Tom Gryp, as soon as possible. 
:,~\ fi'li . 
fi ~~....-. ~~ 

was offered with the stipulation that $200.000 must come from other sources before the $100,000 will be given. "But we're very confident that this will happen," Remmo added. 
Rev. Theodore Hesburgh helped in attaing the grant through a letter of recommendation. The new donations will raise the 
building  fund  total  to  
$1,211,183.75.  A  total  of  $1.8  
million  is  needed,  and  Remmo  

hopes to have this amount secured by July I, the scheduled opening date of the sports facility. 
"We started just sixteen months ago to raise the money for the sports building, so we're very proud of our accomplishments, and we hope to continue in this way till we have all the funds needed," he said. 

FREE'I I I 

. 1978 DOME (the 
..· . \tyearbook, that is) 
are in! Distribution Wed-Fri 1 :00-5:00 LaFortune 
into effect unless either house 
vetoed it. 
The new law is a result of the public outcry that occurred when a 29 percent pay raise for Congress, federal judges and other top feder­al officials took effect in February without a record vote by the House and Senate. 
The February raise increased top congressonal salaries to $57,500 a year. The increase, recommended by President Gerald R. Ford before he left office, took effect after the Senate tabled a motion to kill it and the House failed to vote on a similar motion. 
The new law also will provide unemployment benefits for persons who have exhausted the 39 weeks of aid under regular state and extended federal state compensa­tion laws. 
This will cost taxpayers $528 million this budget year ending Sept. 30 and $215 million next year. 
Benefits will be denied to those who are not actively seeking work or who refuse suitable work offers. 
Under the law, unemployment benefits will continue until Oct. 31. 
... 

Special Wed.&Thurs. Tostada Dinner$1.60 


dfff!ll-~ 
Iff~ 2, . t~.crfo Lurs~
\\\ RE.ST~AN,f/i
\7/_,~ .; ~h 
"~~~.&/
~!SW" 
11 a.m. to 11 p.m. 233-0385 526 Western Ave., South Bend 

LAW SCHOOL INTERVIEWS 
Counselors are available daily at the 

UNIVERSITY OF SAN FERNANDO VALLEY COLLEGE OF LAW 
to offer guidance and career planning 
Call or write USFV, 8353 Sepulveda Blvd. Sepulveda, California 91343. Tel. 213-894-5711 
The College of Law offers a full-time 3 year day program as well as part-time day and evening programs. The school is fully accredited by the Committee of Bar Examiners of the State Bar of California. 
Christ leadership, particularly Camille Chamoun and his National Liberal party, are making plans for a permanent partition, even if it remains only the de facto sp.\it left by the war. 
One evidence of this is the building in the Christian heartland north of Beirut of an unsanctioned $2.5 million airport, named Pierre Gemayel International Airport after the Phalange party leader who is Chamoun's main ally. The reason the Christians are building the airport is that Beirut's official international airport lies in Moslem territory.
1 

President Elias Sarkis, himself a 
· Maronite Christian, is hailed by Lebanese apologists as the political cement to keep the country together. But Sarkis, installed by Syria during the war, has yet to make his authority accepted with­out question. The most dangerous problem facing Lebanon--the fighting in the south--is being run on decisi<>ns by Chamoun, Gemayel, guerril: .1 lead­er Yasir Arafat and Syrian Presi­dent Hafez Assad. Sarkis has little to say about it. 
Laundry upon Redemption 
Laundry Plant Door 2 May 2-6 9-llam. 
1-3pm. 

ASpecially-Priced 2-Rec:ord Set 
"7~~,. ,.;:----, 
. .-. <""! K'li\"' :: -L '-.
<_ ....... ·. .· ~. ' 
~_:..,-~ 
SPEEDWAGON 
LlV£ 

~u Get What You Play For 
including: 

Keep Pushin'/(Only AI Sunvner Love 157 Riverside Avenue/Ridin· The Storm Out Utile Queenie 
THREE GREAT NEW HITS: THE SPINNERS 
"YESTERDAYTODAY&TOMORROW"ON 
ATLANTIC, BAD COMPANY"BURNIN' SKY"ON 
SWAN SONG AND REO SPEEDWAGON "LIVE., 
ON EPIC. 

STEREOLPS 
SERIES798 
$4.'' 
prices goocl thru April 15, 1977 
Notre Dame Bookstore 

-------~ ~-~--~---------­
.....---r--~------­
r 6 fhe observer Wednesday, April13, 1977 
f US incre.ases 'nonlethal' aid to Zaire 
r· KINSHASA. Zaire(AP) · Moroccan 
troops sent to help repel an invasion from Angoloa were dig­f ging yesterday around the mining center of Kolwezi as the United
I 
States announced it was increasing
I 
aid to Zaire's embattled pro-Wes­
I 
tern government. Government and diplomaticI sources said the 1.500 Morocans, 
I 
who arrived in southern Shaba province over the weekend, were taking advantage of a week-long 
lull in the fighting to consolidate supply lines. 
In Washington, the Carter ad­minisuation said it was stepping up aid to the government of President Mobutu Sese Seko. giving it a total of about $13 million in "nonlethal assistance." including a cargo plane. 
At the White house, there was no elaboration on the considerations that led to the decision. However, spokesman Rex Granum said:"We 
do not consider the situation as an East-West confrontation." The State Department said it w rned down a request for emer­
. gt>ncy military help.but was sending a C130 cargo plane worth $9 million and other aid including radio equipment and spare parts for airplanes and vehicles. 
State Department spokesman Hodding said Carter's announce-
NO grad killed in plane crash 

Richard J. Povinelli, an ND graduate was killed in a plane crash. Monday. April 4th. Povinelli was a passenger on a Southern Airways plane which crashed in New Hope, Ga. 
Povinelli graduated from Notre Dame in 1963 and went on to receive his PhD. from ND. He was employed by Du Pont Chemical of Chicago and married to the former Elizabeth Patterson, a 1963 gradu­ate of St. Mary's College. Povinelli is also survived by his parents. two brothers and four sisters. and three sons. 

SUMMER STORAGE 
SAFE, EASY, INEXPENSIVE+ CLOSE TO CAMPUS ON US31 
At: MASTER MINI-WAREHOUSES self-Service Storage Open 7 Days Located just north of State line Telephone: 683-1959 or 684-6991. 

E;,.•dlff.,m<o!llff/J.. 
~ L._.__ PREPARE fOR 

~J· ili~J· ~J 
GMAT • GRE • OCAT 
WR' • SAT 
ECFM6. REI NAT\ MEDICAL BOARDS on IIITAL BOARDS 
l.· Cl'.Ja'f ·.a··l•· ,. ~'09'•'""\ o•11. fl.. ,,.~ .....t:J·~·,. t,• • · 

··: •"'"* ~~. '"•1 ""'•!l·ot,. ~..~.~ ... n"•· '"""'!' t_-.~t :-••: •. ,. ~~ •·• -~.... , ..... •"·:-~ .•!• ., •••,.-r..... ~ ... ,.• • •·~o•• ,. .. · a.. -: !hoC"-•,_•, ~ ...., ' \\Sf'\ • .-·· .. o. 
.. , -.. "i' .-: •• C·· •'"*"" ....,. ,•.,. ' ..._.,.. • .. -:

.tt~•··~·• .,,.·.--: "•·-.~~ ..... ,,...•e•s '":l"JfO"' ""! ro\ ....... "''l' "-...... ....0::9 .s ,•.t• ":•""''~"PI# I~OP hi• 'o•S' t .-.._ .... 0 A\$ 
•'"'"',., .. , .1"'-: •• • .~ ~· '!l·~oo'""'"""""' ,., .. ,,...1,"'" ....1•• ·•;.>'~> 
SPBING,S~B 1 WINTER CO~ACTS 
MOST CLASSES-tl WEEKS BEP .EXAM 
COURSES SOON TO COI'!MENCE; 
GRE-LSAT-GI'!AT-SAT 

Ct""l••l'"' ••·~•IJS t•l•~
'""" ....,.. ... .....
~ 

ment came as the Soviet Union said copper mining industry, which is it felt it was "inadmissible for any the foundation of the .African external forces to interfere in the country's economy. internal struggle in Zaire." Mobutu claims the ivaders are 
In Kinshasa, diplomatic sources supported by Cuba and the Soviet said six high-ranking Egyptian Union. Presidents Fidel Castro of military officers arrived over the Cuba and Nickolai Podgomy of the weekend to discuss aid for the Soviet Union have denied involve­Mobutu government. ment in the invasion. 
An estimated 5,000 invaders, About 20 French military instruc­believed led by veterans of the tors are also reported involved in Katangesa secessionist army of the combat operations. A Foreign late Moise Tshombe, attacked Ministry spokesman in Paris said Shaba on March 8 from Marxist the instructors were sent oJ Zaire Angola where they fled after their under a 1973 agreemen•....,£0 train rebel movement collapsed in the Zaireans in the use of French early 1960's. equipment. 
The invaders have overrun, a­A Paris newspaper, Matln de bout a third of the province, once Paris, quoted Nathaniel Mboumba, called Katanga, and are threaten­who is said commanded the Zaire ing Kolwezi the center of Zaire's invaders, as saying French and 
KEN'S DEN 
HAIR STYLING -­
MEN &WOMEN ACROSS FROM 100 CENTER (UNCOLNWAY WEST IN MISHAWAKA) 
PHONE 255-6500 
APPOINTMENTS PREFERRED 
Belgian troops were fighting along­
Giscard D'Estaing said 11
side those of Zaire. 

French transport planes had been
French Presidnt Valery Giscard sent to carry supplies for Moroccand'Estaing denied in a nationwide troops in Shaba as "signals of·television interview that French security and solidarity" . to Eur­troops "are or will be fighting" the ope's friends in .Africa.
rebels

,..................: i . JUNI-i i ORS! i 
•+ Teaching the Senior-Freshman Colloquium is a ••
t rewarding personal experience and a valuable 
contribution to life ar Notre Dame. Fifteen juniors + • will be chosen now to teach next year. This is the •t only time you may enter the program. 
it you are interested m teaching, come to a ••
• 
meeting on Wednesday, April 13, at 7 in 105 

• 
O'Shaughnessy. Full information will be given : then. If you can't make the meeting, call 7421 of


• 

Thursday, April14. It will not be possible to enter
+ the program after Thursday. • 
How carrying out Equal Rights law may affect you 
Who could quarrel with the right of 
every individual in America to an 
equal chance for a job'! No one we 
know. But when you look for a job. 
you should understand some things 
about the equal rights regulations that 
could affect your chances. 
Most large companies are deeply involved in affirmative action pn:r grams. These are plans and actions designed to overcome discrimination. Statistics are the only evidence that counts. If a company's statistics don't measure up. the company is presumed to discriminate. 
Some people think affirmative action programs discriminate against the majority of Americans. But that kind of talk doesn't solve any problems. Affirmative action is the law. And it's here. 
So if you're a woman or a member of a recognized minority group. you stand a better chance than other pepple of equal ability. Companies are working to catch up. and that's good for you. 
But when you look at a potential employer. we think you ought to dis­<:riminate a littfe, yourself. Ask some tough questions. Such as how a com1 pany promotes people. Or how many higher-level women and minority members they have. Chances are there won't be too many-statistically. So you should demand some straight­forward answers about what a company is trying to do about that. 
FREE--Armco's plain talk on how to get a job 
We've got a free booklet to help you get a job. Use it to set yourself apart, above the crowd. We answer 50 key questions you'll need to know. Like why you should bone up on companies you like. What to do after the first inter­view. Hints to make you a more aggres­sive. attractive job candidate. All prepared for Armco by a consulting firm specializing in business recruiting, with help from the placement staff of a leading university. 
Send for your free copy of How to Get a Job. Write Armco Steel Corpor­ation, Educational Relations Dept., General Offices. U-5, Middletown. Ohio 45043. Our supply is limited. so write now. 
Plain talkabout EQUAL JOB RIGHTS 
So far. there just aren·t enough women, blacks or other minority members in some fields. That's where the real opportunities often are. But you're not likely to be hired as a chemical engineer if your major was black literature or feminist history. If you're looking for real opportunity, you should polish your talent in a discipline that is needed most by those who offer 
' ,
ARMCO 

good jobs. We'll need to create 
18.fXX).(XX) more jobs to take care of 
the young people joining the work­force over the next ten years. So the competition for jobs will be fierce. 
Most of all. we think you should look for companies that really try for excellence in the people they hire, develop and promote. Equal rights are one thing. Good jobs with tough standards and exciting futures are something else again. 
Next time somebody gripes about job discrimination. you might ask: ''Have you ever thought about metallurgy'!" 
Armco -wants mur.plain talk about equal rights and jobs 
Does our message make sense'? We'd like to know what you think. Your 
personal experiences. Facts to prove or disprove our point. Drop us a line. We'll send you back a more detailed 
report on equal rights and jobs. Our offer of How to Get a Job, above. tells you how to write us. Let us hear from you. We've all got a stake in more American jobs. 

------~-----­
Campus Briefs
NO students 
~----------------­
Wednesday, April1l, 1977 
the observer 
7 

volunteer in the Cancer Society's representative of the American Revenue Service said today. and preaddressed envelopes forlend efforts to educate the public on the Cancer Society. Also, refresh­Many taxpayers realize that they making the 1977 declartion and early warning signs of cancer and ments will be provided. For further meet the requirements for filing a payments, the IRS said. Also
tax assistance 
to help ask for donations. The information contact Jay Russell at tax declaration at this time of year, included in the package are aNotre Dame students engaged in success of this drive depends on 8486 or Mary Budde 6738. according to the IRS. Generally, worksheet and instructions.
tax preparation work for persons 
the response of the Notre Dame-St. when taxpayers will owe the IRS
with low incomes are counting early Taxpayers who are required to
Mary's community. Tax payments more than $100 not covered by
successes as they prepare for the file, and did not receive an esti­
Sign-ups for the drive will be in withholding, they should file a
eleventh-hour rush that annually mated tax package in the mail, can
the dining halls Wednesday thru declaration of estimated tax. A
precedes the April IS deadline for due Friday obtain it from their local IRS office.
Friday of this week. All students, Form 1041-ES voucher must ac­
filing. 
who are to meet at the INDIANAPOUS. Indiana -Indivi­company the first installment.
As of April l, the students had IRS Publication 505, "Tax With­
Engineering Auditorium at 2 p.m. duals who do not have enough Taxpayers who filed a declara­
assisted· in the preparation of mG e holding and Declaration of Esti­than 800 tax returns or apprm i­Saturday. taxes withheld are required to pay tion of estimated tax last year mated Tax," is available free from mately the same number as the Transportation as well as walkers their first installment of estimated should have received an estimated the IRS and provides more details 
are needed for the drive. Direc­1977 Federal income taxes no later tax package in the mail, which on the payment of estimated tax.
entire 1976 filing period. Taxpay­
tions will be issued at that time by a than Friday, April 15, the Internal includes four declaration vouchers
ers with incomes of $12,000 or less are helped without charge by the accounting students, and their 
Economist
knowledge of tax laws has helped in generating refunds totaling $90,000 this year. to speak 
Students are on duty at desig­Dr. Murray L. Weidenbaum,nated hours each week in the director of the Center for the Study LaFortune Student Center on the of American Business at Washing­campus and at the following neigh­ton University of St. Louis, willborhood centers: Northeast, South­present two public lectures duringeast. Clay. Hansel. Meadowbrook, a three-day visit to the UniversityLaSalle. Seni.or Citizen and LaRaza. 
of Notre Dame April 13-15. ThePersons requesting assistance are talks and classroom appearancesasked to call 283-7324 for informa­are part of the New Directions intion on exact times the centers are Public Policies series sponsored byopen. 
the Department of Economics. 
Also new this yar are SWAT (Students Working at Taxation) Weidenbaum will discuss "The teams. special volunteer groups on Changing Relationship Between call to assist residents of neigh· Business and Government: The boring communities where tornado Problems" at the first lecture at 8 damage has created unusual filing p.m. tonight in the Memorial problems. Library Auditorium. The 
topic for the second talk at 3:30 
p.m. Friday in the auditorium of
Dorr Rd. 

the Hayes-Healy Center will be "The Solutions."
will be closed 
The speaker served as assistant 
Arthur Pears. director of Notre secretary of the U.S. Treasury from Dame Security, has announced that 1969 to 1971 and was awarded the a portion of Dorr Road, running Alexander Hamilton Award for 
The survey, conducted since
behind the Engineering building. lecture at the University of Notre ~'distinguished leadership." He 
will be closed sometime this week, Author to present Dame Wednesday. 1920 by Brakeley, John Price presently serves as an advisor to 
for the rest of the summer. Tyrell will discuss "The Energy Jones, Inc., shows Notre Dame the American Enterprise Institute A portion of the road between reading of works Dilemma -Why Explore for Petro­with $15,218,000 received from for Public Policy Research, TIME the Engineering Building and the leum Off the Atlantic and Florida 1974 to 1976. The University and Challenge magazines, Com­post office will be torn up as Continental Shelves?" in the\Earth ranked 21st among all institutions mittee for Economic Development
George Chambers, author of Sciences Bldg., room 101, at 7 p.m. and 17 among non-state suported
construction on the Engineering "The Bonnyclabber" and "Cham­and the Economic Forum. 
annex commences. Traffic on He is coming to Notre Dame as a institutions. The nearest Catholic
bersburgh," will present a reading Weidenbaum, a native of New
Notre Dame Avenue will be de­lecturer in the American Associa­university was Loyola (Chicago)
of his works at the University of York, attended City College, Co­
'with $13,129,000 ranking second.
toured around the CCE and the D-2 tion of Geologists Visiting Geolo­
Notre Dame, April 13. Sponsored lumbia and Princeton Universities, 
parking lot, past the stadium on old gist Program. Harvard led all universities with
by The Really Good Fiction Read­and is the author of four major
Juniper .road. and back onto Dorr On Thursday (April 14), Tyrell $111,422,000 in the reporting per­
ing Series of the Department of books and numerous articles in
Road. will discuss "Carbonate Geology, iod.
English, the 4:15 p.m. program in such publications :as Fortune,
The bus shelter at the main gate Upper Captan Reef Complex, West
the Special Collections Room of the Business Week, Wall Street Jour­
will be affected, Pears said, and he Texas and New Mexico," in the
Memorial Library is open to the nal, American Economic Review
is looking into the possibility of Earth Sciences Bldg. room 10, at
public. HPC secretary and Public Finance. He is a former
using the main circle as a turning 1:15 p.m.
Now a teacher of creative writing chairman of the Economics Depart­
around point for the public buses. Both talks are open to the public. 
at Bradley University, Chambers' ment at Washington University, works have been widely antholo­applications open and since 1971, Mallinckrodt Dis­ized and have appeared in many tinguished University Professor.
Cancer Society literary magazines. His latest NO leads Anyone interested in applying for novel, "Null Set," will be pub­secretary of the Hall Presidents
lished this spring by the Fiction Applications due
to raise funds in gifts received Council should submit their names
Collective. 
to Mary McCormick or J.P. Russell
The American Cancer Society as The University of Notre Dame led for fall movies
in the Student government offices, 
part of its Cancer Control Month Geologist all Catholic colleges and universi­second floor LaFortune Student Any club who wants to show a program is sponsoring a cancer ties and 21st among all institutions 
Center. No special qualifications or movie during the falf semester ofeducational fund raising drive this of higher education in the country
to lecture previous experience are required. next year must fill-4_ut an applica­
Saturday from 2 to 5 p.m. in gifts and bequests received over De11.::!line for application is April 15. tion by Friday, Ap.,~ 22. Applica­Cancer is America's second Dr. Willis, W. Tyrell, Jr., petro­the last two years, according to a Tht.; new secretary will be approved tions are now avatt'-able in theleading killer behind heart disease leum exploration geologist with t~e survey published in the current by the HPC on April 19. Student Union office. 
and so students are being asked to Amoco Production Company, wtll Chronicle of Higher Education. 

NOTICES 
LOGAN CENTER VOLUNTEERS: Overnite Campout April 16·17. Meet at Logan Center on Sat. at l1:30a.m. Will return Sun. 3:30 
p.m. Bring sleeping bags blankets. Meals will be provided. We need lots of volunteers so bring a friend! Any questions call Sue Maude 277· 1182 or Jim Scott 283-3975. 
ATTN :Free Univ. Barten ding Stud­ents: Lab will be held Wed., Apr. 13 at 9p.m. in SMC Clubhouse, only tor those who. have paid the lab fee. 
NEED TYPING? Executary, Inc. Professional Typing Service. 10 typ­ists-various typestyles. Term pap­ers:$.85 page, resumes:$2.00 page. Call 232-0898. 
Niles Auction 802 Fort St. 684-6954 
or 684-4671. Auction every Friday 
7:30. We buy and sell fum iture, ap. pliances, antiques. and misc. items daily 12-6p.m. 
Faculty or staff wanting to sublet home or apartment during extended leave. Contact university Profes­sional at 237-4421, 8a.m.-5p.m. 
EUROPE WORLDWIDEacademic 
discounts year round S.A. T.A.4228 
First, Tucker, Ga. 30084 (800)24\­'9082. 
Accurate, fast typing. Mrs. Donoho 
232-0746. Hours-8a.m.-8p.m. 
Consult your broker now! N.D. Fin­ance Club members will be at booth in Old Bus. Bldg., \0-3. 
TYPING Call Carolyn at 232-9061. 
OVEREATERS ANONYMOUS MEETING-Saturdays 10:30a.m..· Holy Cross House. Information? Call 284-5239. 
Summer work interviews: $2500 summer. ISO lounge, basement of LaFortune Center. Date: Wed., April \3. Time: noon, 3p.m. Or 6 
p.m. Be on time. Don,t dress. No phone. 
FOR RENT 

'Available tor summer amd or fall. Studio apt. close to campus. $90 per month-furnished. Call 287-7739. 
---------~----­
2 excellent houses in fine neighbor­hoods. Each ideal for 4-6 students. Cost ad jus ted to number of students $225-300 plus utilities. Call Mr. Gatto 234-6688. 
S-bedroom house, real nice, large living room and kitchen, fully furn­ished, close to campus, has burglar alarm. Call Charlie Moore 272­7180. 
Rooms for rent this summer. Very reasonable, and just a few blocks ·trom Notre Dame. Phone 277-3604. 
4 bedrooms, furnished apartment within walking distance of camppus. Call William Hill, 232-1724. 
Classified Ads 
Two bedroom house to rent. Sum­mer and or school year. 1012 Eddy St. $120 mo. plus utilities. Call OODlES Harris at 232-8563. 
W ANTED!Summer renters. Five bedroom House. Excellent condi· tion, good location. Rent negotia­ble. Call 8436. 
LOST AND FOUND 

Tie tack, transparent stone with Buddha-Elephant head. 283-1706 or 272-7623, or G-32 Library Morton Kelsey. 
LOST:one pair of ice hockey skates (left in Engineering Auditorium on Mar. 28 J Reward-no questions. Call Eric at \604. 
LOST:Biack leather gloves near Hayes-Healy. Call Debbie 7906. 
LOST: Black wool coat at Library. 
Call Julie 4-4993. 
LOST: Black leather wallet, Senior Bar or Nickies. Need ID's. Call Tom 289-9830. 
WANTED 

Need driver'(s) to Princeton N.J. 
due to injury. Will pay all extra 
expenses. Leave 14th or 15th. 
Contact Patter5on, room 303 Morris 
Inn, ph. 234-0\4\. 
4 housemates wanted. 5 bedroom A miles form campus. Good neigh­borhood. Pool table, color T.V. $75 per month per man. 233-2706. 
FOR SALE 

Ovation Guitar-many extras, with 
case. Best offer, John 1164. 
Pioneer SX626;Dual \2\5 turntable, 
Shure cartridge $200. Chip 7854. 
'73 Fiat \24 Syder Convertible, low miles, sharp. $2500.00 or best offer. 234-5002 or 683-2090. 
PERSONALS 

Flash, You're still number one on my list. Mike 
Little One, 
Made any hole-in-one's lately?Maybe if you become more aggressive! 
Long, Tall 

Traty, 
We invite you to the 2nd ANNUAL LIQUIDATION CELE+ BRATION. Te esperamos en Cuatla 38. 
Brendan and Mike 

P.S. Bring your own sunglasses. 
Detroit Club Junior-Senior Dinner. Meet at Main Circle at 5:45 tonite. 
Do Europe your own way, cheaply, 
2-6 weeks. Call Chris NOW 8728. 
Dear Danny, 
I think you dropped something when you told me you'd never gotten a personal. I even caught it­maybe I'm smarter than you think I am. But that's inconsequential. (Do you detect a note of sarcasm?( 
Your "baby baby", 
Kath 

P.S. Laura sends her love. You'll just have to pretend it's 2:15! 
DO IT! FRESHMEN! MOVE YOUR 
"ARSES"! ASK THAT DATE 
TODAY! . 
Moo-Bear, 
Come on babes, don't just sit there-you'll miss the First annual ! Ask someone! 
Dr. Ford, llike sea urchins! Break was most entertaining. Thank You. thE~ ice-womall 
You too, Dave McK.(see Moo's p.) 
Hello Marie... Happy Birthday to;M.J.!!"This One's for You"-· loveHenry-Ciaire, Pierre, Proteus, and Starch 
To Karen, You're the Greatest. frotft the Baddest. • 
Dear Pretender, 
Sorry about missing The NO'Ok(and Steve, and Peg, and... ). Can't wait to see them in May!' 
the Belle 

-

--~--------­
the observer Wednesday, April13, 1977
8 

-----~ 
O'Brien keeps athletics function •
•ng 

bv Bob Keen ness Manager of Athletics plays an and ground personnel," O'Brien was forced by his new job to yield from the philosophy, "athletics Sj,orts Writer integral. although often unnoticed stated. "I oversee the budgets of to his successor Jack Lloyd. before education," which many of role in the success of the entire each department, while also being Job initiation often requires long the major football and basketball 
To co-ordinate an athletic pro­athletic program. For the past nine gram at a university, such as Notre months this position has been Dame. requires the skill and dedi­occupied by Joseph O'Brien. cation of many individuals. Often With an athletic budget in excess the players and coaches receive all of 2.5 million dollars, O'Brien's the credit for success, leaving out responsibilities are extensive. ''I many who deserve recognition. directly supervise my own offic~ as 
The Assistant Director and Busi-· well as the ticket office, stadmm 

joseph O'Brien has served as Assistant Director and Business Manager of Athletics for only nine months, yet fulfills his job like a veteran. 
Notre Dame tracksters finish eleventh 
Joe Piane and his Irish trackmen gained already this season should help from the weight people and take to the road again this weekend· help us greatly at Charleston." the distance men and we'll be all 
for the Eastern lllinois Relays at Charleston, Illinois. 
"We're expecting to do our best down at Charleston for we feel we can do rather well against some of the finer teams in the area," says Piane, whose Irish placed 11th in the Arkansas State Invitational this past weekend at Jonesboro. "The added maturity our runners have 
Irish netters triumph over Cincy 
by Tom Powanda Sports Writer 

After starting the season on a somewhat disappointing note, Coach Tom Fallon and the Notre Dame tennis team have come back with a revamped line-up to win three out oftheir last-four matches. 
Over the weeken(,\ the Irish captured victories. ove~ both West Virginia and~ent State before suffering a ~teat at the hand~ of the Ohio State Buckeyes. High­lighting the weekend activity was senior captain Randy Stehlik. who was undefeated in his three smgles matches while also combining with 
,.,.,.,.,-­

-
freshman Carlton Harris to go unblemished through the first doubles slot. 
Coming up with a strong show­ing in the singles competition the Irish again brought their record to the .500 mark with a 6-3 victory over the Bearcats of Cincinnati. 
Starting off slow, the netters came away with one victory in the doubles competition as Stehlik and Harris continued their winning streak which now stands at four. Taking three sets, the duo finally put away a tough Bearcat team winning 6-4, 4-6, 6-2. 
The other doubles slots saw the Irish drop two as Cincinnati picked responsible in helping to determine the entire athletic budget.'' 

On July 1, 1976, O'Brien filled this position which had been vacat­ed by the retirement of Robert Cahill. Knowledge of O'Brien's background made his selection no surprise to the Notre Dame com­munity. 
O'Brien was born and raised in Philadelphia. After serving in the military during the Second World War he enrolled at Notre Dame. While at the University. O'Brien studied to be an engineer. 
but later switched to sociology and graduated with a Bachelor of Arts degree in 1949. 
After graduation O'Brien worked in the Personnel Departments of the Oliver and Whirlpool Corpora­tions for three years each. Then in 1956, O'Brien was notified, by Father Jerry Wilson of the creation of a new position, Director of Personnel. He then applied and received the job and has been at Notre Dame ever since. As the Director of Personnel, O'Brien was 

responsible  for  supervising  the  
budgets,  including  salaries  and  
fringe  benefits,  of  all  the  em­ 

ployees within the university com­munity. · 
O'Brien first became involved in the athletic program at Notre Dame in 1969 when he became the voice of the Fighting Irish hockey team. He held this position through the 1975-76 season at which time he 
up two of its victories. Three sets were needed in both cases to secure the wins for the Bearcats. 

Down 2-1 after the doubles competition Stehlik continued his prowess into the singles match. After losing 7-6 in a tie-breaker in, the first set, Stehlik went on to sweep the next two sets by identi­cal scores 6-3, 6-3. The win was he fourth in a row for the Notre Dame captain who leads the Irish in victories this season. 
After losing the second slot in three sets, the freshman sensation Carlton Harris gave the Irish its third victory of the afternoon with a two set win over his Bearcat counterpart. The score of the match was 7-6, 6-3. 
In fourth singles spot Bob Koval dropped his first set before un­winding and came up with still another three set victory for the netters. 2-6, 7-5, 6-2 was the final tally. 
Clinching the victory for Notre Dame in the fifth spot was sopho­more Mark Trueblood. Losing just three games in the .entire match Trueblood won easily 6-1, 6-2 giving the Irish its eighth win of the year. 
Adding icing to the cake was Notre Dame's Tom Westphal. Playing in the sixth singles position Westphal came away with a two set victory over his opponent winning 6-2. 6-4. 
The win evens the Irish record at a respectabele 8-8. Playing with more consistancy coach Fallon hopes his netters can continue their winning ways into this weekend as they host a triangular meet with Northern Illinois and Bowling Green. On Friday the action begins at 3:00p.m. at the Courtney Tennis Center while resuming on Saturday at 9:00a.m. 

periods of time and endless frustra­tion. "Fortunately, my previous contacts, within the rest of the university made my job that much easier," O'Brien emphasized. Certainly, his job has been any­thing but easy during his first year. "I never conceived of the num­ber of details involved in running an athletic program, the magnitude is almost overwhelming." 
O'Brien modestly admitted that since the Athletic Department is only a part of Financial Affairs, much of the financial burden is taken from his shoulders. Ulti­mately, O'Brien is responsible to Father Joyce, Executive Vice-Pres­ident and the Chairman of the Faculty Board of Athletics. "This group has complete and final authority concerning all budget proposals within the Athletic De­partment," O'Brien insisted. 
The budget of the Athletic Department is allocated, in much the same manner as that of each other department, from the budget of the university as a whole. 
"The importance of the Athletic Program and Department can only be judged by its ability to enhance the overall excellence of the uni­versity," O'Brien acknowleged. "The excellence of the university as a totality always takes prece­dent, with the Athletic Program only considered as an additonal plus." 
This ideology differs drastically 

*Observer 
sports 
Bookstore Briefs 
by Frank LaGrotta 
Sports Writer 

The 1977 Bookstore Basketball Tournament got underway yester­day and everything went excep­tionally well, according to tourna­ment director Tim Bourret. In games involving highly ranked teams, the results came as little surprise with one exception; in the Farrah fawcett Sextional, the Old Timers upset Toby Knight's Team (who's roster does not include the Notre Dame basketball star who's name the team boasts) 21-12. 
Six-foot seven, 230 pounds Fat­her Dan McNeil paced the Old Timers with nine buckets and 13 rebounds. Lou Cohen tallied three baskets in five attempts for the victors. Mark Simendinger hit five of seven attempts for the losers. Simendinger's totals were not re­presentative of his teams perfor­mance as the remainer of Toby Knight's team could only manage seven baskets in 45 attempts. 
In the Johnny Dee Secional, The Exceptions dumped Meehan's All­Stars, 21-4. Varsity golfer, Bob Kennedy led The Exceptions with seven baskets while Jim Kelly contributed five tallies and Chris Fabian of SWAT team fame added four hoops. 
In the Father Riehle Sectional, the two co-favorite teams both won easily with Three Eggs and Sterm Brothers thrashing The Love Mach­ine 21-7 and Claudine Longet and Spider Shooters crushed the 45 cent Sandwich on Pampernickle 21-12. Bill Murphy, a three-year starter for Bennett Academy of Chicago, led the Three Eggs with seven buckets and: 12 rebounds. Glen Sterms chipped in five bas­kets and ten rebounds. 
powers employ. 
Although recognizing the impor­tance of income producing sports, such as football, basketball and hockey, O'Brien emphasized that the only difference which exists between these sports and the non-money making ones concerns the use of scholarships. 
"The expansion of women's sports along with the renovation of intramural and varsity athletic sites should attest to this comparison," stated O'Brien. 
O'Brien has just begun to under­stand the intricate workings of the Athletic Department and is anx­iously anticipating the upcoming football season. Since attaining his present position, he has found this environment to be completely dif­ferent and yet more exciting than any previously held job. 
"Being able to contribute to the success of the football squad and the entire athletic program along with my involvement with student athletes are the most rewarding aspects of my job," O'Brien em­phasized. 
Although only entering his se­cond year at his present position, O'Brien has shown, through his enthusiasm and dedication, that Assistant Direcor and Busine"s Manager of Athletics is more than just a bureaucratic title. Recogni­tion and success do not always coincide, such is the case with Joseph O'Brien. 
The Love Machine was paced by Jay Clubb with three baskets. For Claudine Longet and the Spider Shooters, Frank Coughlin showed six baskets on the day with the Morrisey-based backcourt of Mike Mulligan and Mike Vadas turning in a nine-basket day. John Ran­dolph led the Pmpernickles with five buckets. 
Bob Keen and Tom Powanda hit for seven buckets apiece leading The Mo Fandsome Five to a 21-15 victory over Harrassing Divinely Inspired Seige Squad in the Tasha Palui Sectional. The Mo Fandsome Five advanced to the Sweet Sixteen in last years tourney before being eliminated by Dave Batton's Tiles, the eventual tournament cham­pions. 
The first day of competition saw The Mooners grap th Most Shots Attempted honors with a 21-84 performance. Augie Jennewein paced the offensive minded club with a seven of thirty performance. The Mooners were victorious, de­feating Not Much, 21-15. 
"The crowds were good for the first day,'' commented tournament. director Bourret who pointed out that he expects a big crowd for tonight's 6:15 games behind the bookstore where two of the top three-seeded teams will be in acton. Tonight at 6:15 Tiles IV will defend their title against Teddy Roosevelt Rides Again. Tiles IV: are paced by Dave Batton, Joe Montana and John Dubenetsky. In the other game, Bill Paterno's Average White Team, 1976 tour­nament runner-up, will meet De­laney's Profs. A WT Ill boasts ND grid stars Rusty Lisch, Mike Banks and Doug Buth as well as Irish cage standout Paterno. 
The Cindermen finished strong at Jonesbory, :-vith Perry Stow finishing sixth against Olympian Earl Bell from Arkansas State with a vault of 15-0; Ahmad Kasimi's 45-2 '12 effort in the triple jump for fifth-place; and Dennis VanDer­Kraats' sixth-place finish in the 3000-meter steeplechase in 9:12.0. 
"We just need some additional 

Capt01in Randy Stehlik led the Irish this p01st weekend with four victories each in singles and doubles. 
right," admits Piane. "Sending 16 freshman and sophomores down to Jonesboro really indicates the nu­cleus of our team. We will perform better as the season continues." 

Following · the Eastern Illinois Relays, the Irish travel to Colum­bus for the April 23 Ohio State Relays. 











