
, 
Unidentified man armed 
Two SMC women attacked, raped 

HPC appoints committee, allocates funds 
by Michael Lewis "This is something that needs to misioners" or any hall council. The $503, while Morissey and Lewis president to determine the exact Staft Reporter 
be done since the Board of Trustees amendment may then be adopted received the lowest of 5278 each. nature of the planned improve­did away with the Student Life by "a constitutional convention The allotments were given on a ments, revenue from food sales and Hall President's Council Chair­Council and changed the University called by the Board of Commision­basis of need. Earlier in the other factors contributing to the man J. P. Russell has appointed a judicial procedure," Russell said. ers" or by "ratification by two­semester hall presidents sub­hall's financial need. The proposal 
three-person Ad Hoc committee to According to the SG Constitu­thirds of the hall councils." mitted a request form to the was approved by 17 HPC members, 
"review and propose revisions to tion, amendments may be pro­Russell said that working committee outlining planned hall with 3 abstentions. 
the Student Government Constitu­posed by "a majority of the total through the Board of Commision­improvements and the money Student Union Director Tom 
tion." membership of the Board of Com-ers "might have been the simplest required for these projects. The Gryp also addressed the HPC way to go about it." However, he committee then met with each hall [Continued on page 7] added, "I felt tha(it wouldn't have 
Carter urges passage 
that much legitimacy because three members of the Board of Com­
of his energy program 
misioners are SLC members." He also noted that there is a question
W ASIHNGTON [AP] -President energy bills only if they meet these 
whether those members are still on 
Carter, saying Congress must tests." 
the Board of Commisioners since 
"resist pressures from a few for Carter said "We should reward 
the SLC has been dissolved. 
special favors,'' threatened last individuals and companies who 
The members of the committee 
night to veto any energy legislation discover and produce new oil and 
are Tom Byrne, SG press secretary, 
that fails to meet his test for gas, but we must not give them 
Tracy Kee. executive coordinator of 
fairness. huge windfall yrofits on their 
the HPC and a former hall presi­
In his first nationwide televi­existing wells at the expense of the 
dent Bill McLean, former director 
sion address in more than six American people." 
of Ombudsman. "I feel they are 
months, Carter appealed for The televised address to the 
three very qualified people and I'm 
Americans to urge Congress to act nation was the second since Carter 
sure they'll do a good job," Russell 
on his energy program. took office in January. His first commented.
The energy blueprint he outlined broadcast speech last April also 
Russell added that he had
for Congress was fair both to was a call for quick action on the 
spoken with Student Body Presi­
consumers and producers and nation's energy problems. In that 
dent Dave Bender and that Bender
would promote energy conserva­speech, he proposed the energy 
had also seen the need for revision
tion while protecting the federal program that remains stuck in 
of the constitution. Bender also
budget "from any unreasonable Congress today. 
approved the three committee 
financial burden," he said. The energy legislation does not 
members,according to Russell.
"These are the three standards represent "a contest of strength 
Byrne stated, "The document is
by which the ftnal legislation will between the President and the 
old and needs revision in several
be judged," Carter said in his Congress, nor between the House 
areas.'' Russell also noted that the
prepared text. "I will sign the [Continued on page 7] 
constitution is "scant and nonde­
finative" in some sec­tions. /Robin Lavender 
~:';'lt.

demanded open commit­
tee meetings, and After opening the HPC meeting yesterday, J.P. Russell 
objected to the lack of left the meeting in the able hands of executive coordinator 
elected officials on the Tracy Kee. [Photo by Kevin Walsh] 
committee. McLean said that open meetings are a possibility after ''the committee has had time to 
Get those cards !
review the possibilities and get its ideas." Byrne
Digger Phelps gestures 
added, "We're not going
to emphasize a point. Checkmark cards for second at Stepan Center on Wednes­
to come back with a 
, 
The Irish basketball semester pre-registration at day, Nov. 16. Freshman regis­
conspiracy or anything·."
coach spoke to an Notre Dame may be picked up tr~tion information is contained 
enthused audience in Other HPC members by Seniors tomorrow, and b_y in the Dean's Newsletter. Grace Hall yesterday asked about the possibil­Juniors on Friday, at tile-loca­evening. [Photo by ity of adding a hall presi­tions specified in the course Registration forms at St. Kevin Walsh] dent to the committee. schedule book. Mary's may be picked up from 
Processing of form 50s and 6-8 p.m. in the Registrar's
Russell instructed inter­
checkmark cards will be on Office on the following days:ested hall presidents to 
contact him late last Monday and Tuesday, Nov. 14 Seniors, today; J!Jiliors, tomor­night. and 15, at Stepan Center. row; Sophomores, on Sunday; Sophomores will receive their and Freshmen and all other 
Later in the meeting, form 50s on Friday or Monday students, on Mon~ay. Students 
the HPC budget commit­
and checkmark cards will be may take their forms to their 
tee announced its pro­
a\'ailable Monday and Tuesday, department chairmen for pro­
posed hall improvement 
except for Arts and Letters cessing beginning the day after 
allotments for this year. 
courses, which can be picked up _ the_y pick them up.
Carroll Hail received !he 
highest allotment of 
by Bob Varettoni Senior Staft Keporler 
Two St. Mary's students were raped last night-by a single, unidentified assailant brandishing a gun. 
According to James Roemer, Notre Dame dean of students, the two had just crossed State Road 31 at the light at St. Mary's Rd. at about 10 p.m. on their way to the Notre Dame campus. A car pulled over . on the highway and a man, carrying a gun, got out. Roemer said the assailant chased the women down the wooded path leading to the Notre Dame campus where he raped them. 
After the incident, the two students made their way to a Notre Dame men's residence hall, Roemer said. A friend then accompanied the two women to the Notre Dame Security Office. 
At Security, one of the victims requested to call her parents. Roemer said that the two were then taken by Security to the St. Joseph's Hospital Emergency Room. 
Kathleen Rice, St. M~_UY's dean of students, stated that the victims were raped, but emphasized that they were not otherwise physically harmed. She noted that, at the hospital, they were "under­standably shaken up." 
Rice said the students gave a good description of the rapist. Roemer added that a description of the attacker's car was out "within 12 to 15 minutes" after the rape was reported to Security. 
As of 1 a.m. today, a suspect had not been apprehended, Rice said. 
Roemer added that after the man raped the women, "he commented something about driving back to St. Joe, Michigan." The man may have been trying to throw investigators off, Roemer noted. 
A spokesman for the St. Joseph's County Police Department said that the investiga­tion has been handed over to Notre Dame Security. St. Mary's Security had no comment to make about the rape. 
At St. Joseph's Hospital with the students last night were Roemer, Rice, representatives from St. Mary's Health Services, representatives from Notre Dame and St. Mary's Security, and Bro. Just Paczesny, vice-president of Student Affairs. 
''They were walking down the lane toward Notre Dame which we've been telling people notto do," Rice said. "Even though they were in two's, it didn't help." 



Wednesday, November 9, 1977
the observer 
,_News Briefs----~ 
1------------World 
Israel and Lebanon _f'l{ht 
BEIRUT Lebanon --Israeli and Palestinian gunners dueled across the Leba~ese border yesterday in the worst breach of uteir Sept. 26 truce. Officials said one Israeli and six Lebanese civilians were killed. Each side accused the other of starting the shelling. 
t======:::=:::r==================== National 



National election results 
In elections across the country yesterday, Democratic Gov. Brendan Byrne was reelected inNew Jersey;Republican John Dalton won the gubernatorial race in Virginia; Republican Edward I. Koch was elected mayor of New York City; in Buffalo, Arthur Eve took the mayorial election; while in Cleveland, incumbant mayor Ralph Park lost to both State Representative Edward Feighen and City Clerk Dennis Kucinich. Other large cities electing mayors were Detroit, Houston, Seattle, Pittsburgh, Minneapolis, Miamj, Louisvile, Ky., Charlotte, NC,. and Toledo and Dayton, Ohio. 

~On Campus Today_------.. 
12:15 pm 
3 pm 3:25pm 
4:30 pm 
6:30 pm 6:45pm 7 pm 
7, 10 pm 
7 pm 7:15pm 
7:30pm 
7:30pm 8 pm 
8:15pm 9-11 pm 
6:30am 
forum, "ethics in business," by dr. kenneth goodpaster, sponsored by the college of bus., rm. 121 hayes~healy. 
workshop, assertiveness training with joseph miller, stapleton hall, smc. 
seminar, "selective conversion of synthesis gas to 2 carbon chemicals," by dr. madan bhasin, sponored by the chem. engr. dept. rm. 269 chem. engr. building. 
lecture, "theodore roe thke and the greenhouse metaphor," by prof. ernst sandeen, sponsored by the eng. dept., galvin life-science aud., all welcome. 
meeting, sailing club, rm. 204 engr. building. 
meeting, al anon, 4th floor memorial lib. 
career workshop, work values with pat mccormak, regina north basement. 
film, "little big man," sponsered by the student un., engr. aud. $1. 
discussion, ireland program, carroll hall, smc. 
seminar, "international carre night, sponsored by aiesec-nd, hayes-healy aud. 
reading, poetry reading by max westler, smc eng. dept., stapleton lounge, smc. 
faculty senate, seminar rm. 202, cce. 
lecture, "justice, community, and desert." by prof. alsdair macintyre, sponsored by the philo. dept., galvin life aud. 
concert, viol de gamba trio, sponsored by the music dept., lib. aud. 
nazz, "jazz in the nazz," the nd jazz band directed by fr george wiskirchen, Ia fortune basement. 
thursday, early morning 
wsnd am this morning, with mike ridenour and cathy 
murray, 640 am. 
Brothers/sisters collect AF tix for children 
The Big Brothers/Big Sisters of Notre Dame and St. Mary's is now collecting student football tickets for the Notre Dame-Air Force game to allow the children involved in the program to s~e ~he game. 
Anyone wtshtng to donate hts ticket call Dan at 1166. 
*The Observer 
Night Editor: Steve Odland ' Asst. Night Editor: Sandy Colson layout Staff: Rosemary Mills Editorial layout: Judy Rup­precht Features layout: Dave 0'Keefe (star reporter) Sports layout: T.P. (you're cool!) Typists: Mary Jo Cushing, Mark Rust, Tricia Meehan, Tom Powanda Night Controller: Mardi Nevin Day Editor: Maribeth Moran i Copy Reader: Bob Varettoni Photol!irapher: Kevin Walsh 
The Observer Is published Mon­day through Friday except during exem end veatlon periods. Tlw Observer Is published by the students of Notre Deme end Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions mey be purchased for no per veer (Sl 0 per semester) from The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Deme, lndiene 46556. Second cless postage peld, Notre Deme, lndlene, 46556. . The Observer 11 • member of the Assocleted Pren. All repro­duction rightl ere reserved. 



I'"'JlJLIO'S'''"!! 
!l!: now servin{{ illl! 
DEUUOUS aDCKEN 

DINNER 

t: 
your room piping hot, phone r



I cW::::~DAYS I 
::::: 4 pm -11 weekdays :;:: ::~:: . 4 pm -1 weekends ~:~: 
::z::::::::::::::::::::!..Y.::::::::::::::::::-::-:::::::~=~=====~=:::::::=~=~=::::::::~::;:: 
Follow-up 

Police investigate WSND thefts 
by Frank JLaurino 

St. Joseph County Police will 
start an investigation into the 
recent WSND equipment theft, 
Station Manager Peter Goerner 
announced yesterday. The polic·e 
investigation was requested by 
Dean of Students James A. 
Roemer. 
According to Goerner, the 

recommendation stemmed from a 
Nov. 3 meeting between Roemer 
and WSND Sports Director Ted 
Robinson. That meeting specif­
ically dealt with the Oct. 28 theft in 
which approximately $1650 in elec­
tronic equipment was reported 
stolen from the station's production 
studio. Roemer determined that a 
police investigation was necessary. 

"We're letting Dean Roemer· have this case," said Goerner. "When the police come in, they'll! lbe able to take fingerprints in the' production studio." 
The studio has been locked since: · the discovery of the theft. According to Goerner, "nothing has been touched." 
Goerner stated that an unidenti­fied male was reported to have been seen in the station the night of" the robbet:y. Two staff members who were working that night will be asked to aid police in making a composite drawing of the suspect, explained Goerner. 
''Roemer will allow the staff members to look through the Rolodex file of student J.D. pictures as well," added Robinson. "The Dean has been very cooperative." 
In addition, photographs of tht:: stolen equipment will be distribtJI ted to maids and janitors. "Hope·· fully we'll be able to track down tht:: culprit and turn him over to tht:: proper authorities," said Roemer. 
In an emergency meeting follow·· ing the robbery, WSND depart·· 
TIX 
Tickets for the November 18 Notre Dame basketball game with the Russian National squad wm be available to students starting today. The sales will be open to students only until Saturday, November 12. The cost will be $2 for lower arena and $1.50 for bleachers. 
Each student may present only his ID for a ticket. The tickets are available at the Gate 10 box office. 

ND seniors 

who made deposits 
but did not go on the 
Senior Trip can pick up their deposits at the Student Activities office today. St. Mary's seniors will be able to pick up their deposits at a time and place: designated later. 

ment heads resolved to increase station security. According to Goerner, identification cards will soon be issued to all station personnel. "If someone doesn't have an J.D. card, they don't get past the door," he said. 
"Director of Production Engin­eering, John Foster is seriously looking into electronic security measures," added Goerner. "Our only problem, of course, is the cost." 
Robinson feels the Detex system provides the best security for the station. ''With the Detex, only station personnel can get inside the studio," he said. 
Goerner finds "no reason to believe a staff member is involved at the present time." However, the station manager added, "as far as we can see, there are no answers." 
"It's got to stop," said Robin­son. "We're losing too much equipment." 
Roemer explained that if any suspects are apprehended, the University will have "no course but to turn the individual over to the proper authorities for criminal prosecution." He added that if a student is involved, the individual will be "most probably separated from the Notre Dame community." 
"This is a very serious felony," said Roemer. "Hopefully we'll track down this criminal." 


AIESEC holds seminars 
Seminars on careers in inter­phan Watts of the International national business will be held Department of St. Joseph Bank; tonight at the Hayes-Healy Cen­"International Marketing," to be ter, from 7:15 to 9:30 p.m. The conducted by Jack McNeil of seminars are sponsored By Dodge Manufacturing; and "Inter­AIESEC, an international associa­national Law," conducted by Ste­tion of students in business and phan Kertesz, professor emeritus economics management, and are of the Notre Dame Law School. open to students of all colleges. The featured speakers will make 
short presentations on their topic, 
The seminar topics are: "Inter­to be followed by an extensive national Accounting," to be con­question and answer period. Each ducted by Dave Miller of Price seminar will be presented three Waterhouse; "International Fi­times to allow students to explore nance," to be_ conducted by Ste-more than one field of interest. 

TEACH A 



FREE UNIVERSffY COURSE!! 
we an~ looking for anyone interested in teaching about their favorite interest, 


hobb~r, etc., for the spring semester 
virtually any topic acceptable 

CALL 1158 TODAY! 
-~~-------~ ------~~---~-~-----------------------...-o~~ 
New courses at St. Mary's 
ENGLISH CHEMISTRY /PHYSICS 
by Cathy Murray 
Advance registration for students at St. Mary's will begin tomorrow 
104W 9MWF Phy 102 3MWF and continue through Thursday. 
Language and Uteratllfe: Space Physics and Astrooomy Nov. 17. The following courses. 
Mysteries of Identity The solar system: The sun, moon listed by department. are bein 
Astudy of peotry, drama and and planets. offered on the St. Mary's campus 
fiction with dose examination on The Universe: Star groupings and fpr the first time: 
various problems of modern men properties af stars. Interstellar and women in their search for matter, groupings and quasars. identitv. Stellar evolution and cosmic 
BUSINESS/ECONOMICS 
Loux · 3.0 credits matter. 
Coomes 4 credits Buec345 IOMWF 104W IOMWF lab Tues. 2-5 or 1-3 Business Communications Language and Uteratwe EDUCATION 
Renshaw 3.0 credits This course is designed to improve the students acquired Ed2!5 writing skills through repeated Health, Pbysleal Education IU!d 
Buec446 IOMWF practice and a focus on individual Recreation Business Polky strengths and weaknesses. This course is designed to give a Yeandel 3.0 credits Olsen 3.0 credits. basic understanding of the 
practices in Health, P.E. and Buec355 IMF Enlt 203 IIT3or31T5 recre-ation for the elementary Contemporary Economic Issues Good Books school teacher. 
Buren gasser 3.0 credits A wideranging excursion through lynch 3.0 credits a number of important works of the Buec 405 IMF western tradition. Non English Ed 354 IOIT12 Corporate Income Tu majors welcome, but not for the Introduction to Leamlng Dlsabilltie Renshaw 3.0 credits student with serious writing Definition, correlates and a study 
problems. of theories which can be applied to Buec 423 IOMWF Vacca 3.0 credits special education of children with Human Behavior learning disabilities. Yeandel 3.0 credits Enlt 380 Sr. Finske 3.0 credits 
Uterature of Justlce In the Third 
Bucc413 IMF World Ed478 7Tu9 Portfolio Theory An introduction to the sociology Senior Seminar Cain 3.0 credits and literature of the third world, Deals with the topics of classroom 
literature of primative justice and management, legal rights and Buec 349 integrity. · responsibilities of teacher and Survey of International Bus/Econ Stewart student. 
Burcngasscr 
Staff taught VcreditsV credits 
Renshaw Ed410
MATHEMATICS 3MW5 
Practlcum In Reodlng 108 Deal with informal testing and 202 9MWF or IOMWF lntrodoction to Linear Algebra 
PSYCHOLOGY 
remediation. Inferential StadstJcs and This course enables the student Hoover 3.0 credits and Experimental Methodology having only a backgroung in high This course will attempt to school algebra tp learn some matrix IIT4
Ed48I Seminar In Reading
integrate statistics and research algebra and see' it used in some An investigation of recent re­design. traditionally to separate realistic settings. 
sear~h in the field of reading, withcourses. They will deal with the Miller 3.0 credits spec1al emphasis on innovatine andwhy of statistics and the design of a experimental programs.
research project. Jameson, Villars 3.0 credits 
RELIGIOUS STUDIES Hoover 3.0 credits 
Rls! 302 91T11 SPEECH/DRAMA416 9Tul2 or 9Thl2 
The Cborch In the New Testament
History and Systems 357 3MWF
A stu~y of the universal Christian
'\enior Seminar Advanced Oral Interpretation
basis of the church in the 
A study of ·the techniques of An attempt to look at the develop­readers theatre, chamber theatre
scriptures and of the many ways in r:lent of psychology historically and arranging the interpretive
which New Testament writers Keller.Leavy 3.0 credits recital.
thought and spoke about the church. 
Syburg 3.0 credits 
Sr. E. Maltis 3.0 credits 
SOCIOLOGY Rlst 421 llMWF 311 2IT4 Religious Education II 
The American Genre F1lm The focus is on doing catechesis-­
Focuses on the Western, musical, /TI,4 thriller romance and detective film. 
1/MWF How? Why? What? Students will Snclal PsycboloaY operationalize specific issues, Coiner 3.0 credits Rolston 3.0 credits goals, methods and content in 
actual teaching placements. 361 9MWF 203 'l1Tll, IOITI2 or IIT3 Jancoski 3.0 credits Introduction to commulcatlve Sodal Problems dloonlen McKee 3.0 credits The nature, causes and treatment
Rls! 425 2IT4 Great Theologhms: Paul 
of speech and hearing problems. 329 IITJ Zink 3.0 credits 
This course will establish 3 things Antluo./Snc. Study of Religion a) The theological traditions from 
494 llMWF
Tarleton 3.0 credits which Paul drew, b) The nature of Theatre for Yoana P-Ie
Christianity within which Paul 
A study of tnformal and formal362 IMWF worked, and c) The theological theatre for youth from preschoolPenpe<tlves on Gerentology originality of his life and thought. 
through secondary school.
Rolston 3.0 credits Weiss 3.0 credits Bain 3.0 credits 


Latin American events planned 
by Andy Segovia Informal brown bag luncheons will be held in The Latin American Service will sponsor a Latin LaFortune Student Center daily. Notre Dame faculty 
American Awareness Week on the Notre Dame campus members will give lectures on some aspect of th Latin from Nov. 13 to Nov.18. Events will include movies, an American Culture during these luncheons. art display, lectures, luncheons, mural painting, and Two highly accaimed movies emphasizing the 
musical presentations. The week long affair is being emergence and importance of the third world nations sponsored in cooperation with CILA, The World and the world hunger problem will be shown. These Hunger Coalition, and Amnesty International. movies are "Five Minutes to Midnight" and "State of 
The guest lecturers include Thomas Quigle, the Siege".

advisor of Latin America to the ,--=--=-..:;;.._;______::::....________________--,-_ ____, 

U.S. Catholic Congress; and Maria Sqella, a native Chilean who will talk on the female way of life in Latin America. 
Two well known Latin American musical groups have also been invited. "Lucha" and "Los Rumi Songas" will perform Latin Ameri­can folk music. These groups are based in Washington D.C. 
The art gallery will present an art display featuring famous Latin American artists. In addition a Notre Dame professor has de­signed a mural highlighting the Latin American culture. Students will be invited to attend and assist in the actual painting. The mural will be on display in the Field­house. 
a CAMPUS MINISTRY INQIDRY AND 
campus

ministry CATECHUMENATE 

Wednesday, November 9, 1977 
the observer 



New AL courses offered 
by John Greusser 

Notre Dame undergraduate students have the opportunity to take many new Arts and Letters courses next semester. The Department of American Studies is offering two new courses: AMST 443 Broadcast News Writing, a laboratory course in writing news for broadcast; and 473 Problems of Work and Leisure in the 20th Century which deals with the problem of finding meaningful activity in a modem society. 
One new Art course is available: 131 Basic Watercolor, an intro­duction to watercolor. The Depart­ment of Sociology and Anthropol­ogy has four new courses: SOC 254 Introductory Medical Sociology, dealing with health care and related problems; SOC 359 Intro­ductory Mental Health, which studies sociological perceptives on mental health, illness, and retarda­tion; SOC 409 Models in Sociology, an attempt to clarify the alternative models of science and discuss explanation and interpretation as they relate to sociology; and SOC 424 Social Psychology, which deals with issues, approaches, and problems of Social Psychology. 
Two new philosophy classes have been made available: 316 Educa­tion for Justice (also ECON 316) which examines current concerns for distribution of material goods, and 345 Jewish Philosophy (also THEO 331) which focuses on attempts by Jewish thinkers to reconcile the relationship between the religion of their fathers and reason. 
In addition to Jewish Philosophy, the Theology Department is offer­ing other new courses: 219 Bible and the 20th Century which discus­ses the fundamentals of modern Biblical criticism; 228 Dissent and Reform in the Medieval Church; 333 Theological Traditions and 
PROGRAM 
For anyone wishing to find out more about our Christian faith and Catholic 
tradition 

D 


Catholic 
For rmre infonnation, drop by 
Hall, or call 6536 or 3820 • 

.. 
'•' *~ ,•
'. ........ .. .. . J,.~· ··.·~~·~·~-~..... ·.··:._··.-···.··.~.-.--······:--:-·'"-;··--· ..... •·••·• -······~-----...-.................... "" ~ ,., ............................................... ' .•.• ,•.• ,, •• ~'_~"....!.--·.:.· -~0:..-~~i:,~· 
Aquinas, a discussion of Aquinas' Summa Theologica; 334 Theology of Eucharist; 336 Contemporary Christian Theology; 340 Moral Responsibility, an analysis of the impact of personalism on current theological ethics-for Business majors only; 378 The Unseen City (also ECON 420 and GOVT 377), only for those who have partici­pated in the Urban Plunge, studies the complexity of relationships in he cities; 415 Paline Theology; 432 Concepts of Deity, a study of models of divinity and how they influenced the theological develop­ments of traditional Christianity; and 437 Kierkegaard analyzes Kierkegaard's two major works on philosophy of religion. 
Two new Black studies courses are open: 345C The Supreme Court from Brown to Bakke (also IDST 345C), a one credit survey of major Supreme Court decisions since the desegregation cases of 1954; and 395 Black Theater in America, a consideration of dramatics by and about black people in the Western Hemisphere. 
The History Department has created many new course opportu­nities: 334 History in Fiction, a discussion of the historical novel as a means of learning about the past; 338 Medical Influence, deals with the influence of medical issues on history; 345A The Atomic Bomb; 345B World War IT; 345D Adolf Hitler: Old and New Views; 478 Business in U.S. History, sketches the internal development of busi­ness organizations and surveys the role business has played in Ameri­can development;. 48o Psychohis­tory, an examination of psychologi­cal insight about our forebears and how they effect man today. 
New entries by the English Department are: 310 Writing Essays; 369 The Unreal City, concerns the representation of cities in 19th century literature; 390 Literature of Ireland I: Varieties of Irish Literature, looks at Irish literature from the perspective of the Irish 1970s; 376 Southern Woman Writers; 391 American and British Poetry since 1945; 403B On Reading Blake's Prophetic Books; 438 Medieval Drama; and 449 Milton and the Romantics, attempts to determine whether Milton was the father of romantic poetry. 
The department of Modern and aassical Languages is offering four new courses: 447 French Classical Novel, 474 Contemporary German Prose, 381 Spanish Civili­zation Medieval and Renaissance, and 375 Spanish American Urban Literature. 
A new Government course, 433 Politics and Theological Liberation (also THEO 448) is available in the spring. It examines the role of the church in relation to dependence and liberation in Latin America. 
Finally, a new Economics course is being offered: 476 Economics of the Political Theology of Self­Governing Socialism. 
There are no new courses for either the General Program or the Music Department, and infor­mation on new Psychology courses was not available. 






%The Observer 
is now acceptine:
qualified applicants for 
ASSISTANT AD MANAGER. 
salary offered 
please schedule interview at the Observer ad office 
'---3rd floor LaFortune ___ 



r.-------------------------,
1juniors ·· Sponsored by SMCND HAYRIDE/SQUAREDANCE 
FRI NOV 11 NNLES 7-12 pm 
1icke1s on 7-12 pm 3:00 sale beer, hotdogs, or 
Wed-Fri FUN!! 3.50 -bus 


L-------------------------J
COUPON----------------~ 


: i 4 ) ,•'/ i-'' ~ .. ,(: ~ &: (' • l •" 4 • 1 •I, ' t 
( ...·~ .'/. r~· .l.:'!/! :...1.·... ~~q··~~~;·l: -~ .-'~· ::. i 

*The Observer 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's 
The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters 'are the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and letters are encouraged to promote the free expression of varying 
opinions on campus.  
Business Manager Advertising Manager Production Manager  Sue Quigley Steve Bonomo Karen Chiames  BoxQ ·Notre Dame Ind. 46556  

EDITORIAL BOARD 

Marti Hogan Editor-in-Chief Martha Fanning Managing Editor Bob Brink Asst. Managing Ed Kathy Mills Executive Editor Maureen Flynn Editorial Editor Barb Breitenstein Exec. News Editor Jean Powley St. Mary's Editor Katie Kerwin News Editor• Barb Langhenry News Editor Paul Stevenson Sports Editor Pat Cole Special Projects Ed. David O'Keefe Features Editor 
Copy Editor Joan Fremeau Photo Editor Leo Hansen 
Wednesday, November 9, 1977 


Why Do They Die? 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~~iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~~iiiiiiiiiiii~iiiiiiiiiiiiiii david cwik 
It was reported recently that three million unborn children were aborted in the United States last year. Three million. 
Amidst a flurry of self-congratu­lation it was reported on Oct. 10 that our Student Government would allocate $500 to the ND Right to Life group. Student Government officials at that time were quoted as saying: "Being a Catholic school, we should stand up for Christian principles. And though this will not be a popular decision, . . . we feel that it needs to be made." 
On Oct. 17, the Student Govern­ment stopped the money. 
The grant was rescinded because one student appealed the alloca­tion. The student reportedly said the allocation was an injustice to students. He said that the grant only presented one side, and asked, "Does the worth of any groups' goal justify it being the only group heard?" The student concluded, "Basically, the best thing to do is to keep public funds out of anything like this. But if you have to fund some group, it's incumbent to fund both sides." 
And it was reported that three million unborn children were killed in our abortion mills last year. Three million. 
In the summer of 1971 in a parking lot on the West Side of Chicago a friend of mine died. The two of us had belonged to a gang, like most kids from the West Side. And like most kids from there we got into gang fights. Most of the time they were just words and fists. 
But sometimes they were worse. In the last one, my friend died. 
I saw him die. Some who were there also saw him die. As he lay there in the parking lot, some there cried. Others just stood and stared. 
A few ran. All knew this death shouldn't have happened. All knew we had, somehow, lost something precious. And all who were there recognized their own frail humanity. Their own wretchedness. 
But when we hear of the number of abortions performed each year many of us do not cry. Many of us don't believe that their deaths shouldn't have happened. Many of us don't feel as though we have, somehow, lost something precious. 

And many of us don't recognize that their deaths were caused by our own wretchedness. 
We don't cry because we now disregard the sanctitiy of life. We will now even sacrifice the unborn for our comfort and convenience. We now talk about "funding both sides." 
And it was reported that there were three million unborn children killed in the abortion mills last year. Three million. 
I am told that there now be a fund drive for the ND Right to Life group. I will give to this fund drive. Unfortunately, it will not be very much. 
It does not matter that we may give materially only a little. What matters is why we are doing this. We are doing this to demonstrate that we have convinced ourselves that, like the killing of my friend, the killing of unborn children is wrong. Heartlessly wrong. That like the souls of those who saw my friend die, we are praying "Forgive us." That our hearts, like the hearts of those who saw my friend die, are crying out: "No more." 
No more. 





P.O. BOX Q 
N.D. 
overrated 
Dear Editor: 
I am deeply disturbed when I read or hear descriptions of Notre Dame such as that given by a subway alumnus in his letter concerning the USC game (The Observer, ll/4). Generalities such as "Notre Dame always stood for class" and "only at Notre Dame do the athletes attend class and ... find themselves subject to unbending disciplinary procedures". are at the very least questionable. But the searcy thing is not so much that some outsiders believe in this "pure image," but that so many here at Notre Dame are being misled.· 
Judgments of duLac approaching infallibility or perfection are unfounded. Too often we judge ourselves by the ideals we stand for and not by our actions. To cause hundreds of dollars worth of dam­age by throwing rocks is not class! Too often we generalize overall excellence from a specific quality. A great football team does not mean a great university! We must be careful where we set our priorities. Do we wish to judge ourselves in terms of character or as great fans? 
A great injustice is done to this . university by the administration in their endeavor to present Notre Dame as something it isn't. In attempting to maintain a pure image we often overestimate our­selves, resulting in a failure to recognize faults that do exist. In addition, worrying about our image is a major hinderance to the resolution of many problems. The groundskeeper issue has been unnecessarily complicated by the administration's overconcern with tarnishing our image. We must realize both our virtues and our shortcomings and deal with them honestly before we will begin to deserve the praise we have 
received. Bob EIUs 
Uniust criticism 
Dear Editor: 
I would like to reply to the comments made by Amy Hartzell, St. Mary's Sports Commissioner, criticizing The Observer's coverage of athletics at St. Mary's. 
I am currently women's sports editor for both the Notre Dame and St. Mary's campuses. Upon assuming this position last April, I promptly ran an ad on the sports page seeking people who would be interested and willing to cover women's sports, either Notre Dame's or St. Mary's. Response to this ad was nonexistent. 
Early this year, I repeated this same request. In addition, I put in a special plea at a St. Mary's staff meeting. I was especially interest­ed in having someone covering that campus for I realized how difficult it could be to keep abreast of all the functions going on in the athletic department there, and I did not want to slight any one group. 
The results of these efforts proved a bit more fruitful for I came up with the names of four people who had expressed a desire to write. However, upon contacting these four, I found that they either preferred to cover men's sports or would not give me a firm committ­ment to cover women's. 
I, too, am interested in having adequate coverage of St. Mary's sports. As an athlete, I know the importance of recognition for one's time and effort. But athletics have also taught me the importance of cooperation. I do not claim omniscience and therefore will again extend a request for writers. If there is anyone who wishes to cover women's sports on a depen­dable basis, please notify me. Or, if you know of an event deserving recognition in the paper, make sure the results of this event reach me. I have a staff box in The Observer office for this exact purpose. 
I do wish Ms. Hartzell had talked to me before making such com­ments. The Observer is a joint ND-SMC publication and therefore warrants participation from both sides. Until I see some real, committed interest coming from St. Mary's, I cannot find justification for Ms. Hartzell's criticism. 
Laurie Reising 
Women's Sports Editor 


What next? 
Dear Editor: 
This letter IS m regard to the article on basketball tickets in Monday's paper. It is addressed to Ticket Manager Mike Busick, or 
.commentary 


Please, Let Us Know 
jean pow/ey 
Editor's Note: The following commentary Is based on a letter sent · by Jean Powley to every member of the SMC Board of Governance • The Observer editorial board endorses the comments of Its St. Mary's Editor. 
As St. Mary's Editor of The Observer, I feel I must respond to your complain.ts about t.ack of St. Mary's coverage in the paper. 
Let me begm by saymg that I agree wholeheartedly with your indignation over the senior trip article in Thursday's paper. The fact that no St. Mary's seniors were interviewed was a gross oversight that I cannot excuse. I have since spoken to my Notre Dame counterparts about it and we have decided that from now on they will read each day's Notre Dame story sheet to me over th; phone and if a story should apply to both campuses, I will give them the name of a St. Mary's person to contact. In addition, I plan to attend their next reporter's meeting to speak to the individual reporters about including St. Mary's in their articles. 
Another of your complaints, regarding the specification of SMC activities but not labeling ND activities, is also a valid point. In the future, we hope to rectify this, too. I will alert all copyreaders and reporters about this change. 
Your other grievances, however, I cannot agree with. In the 21 issues published since Sept. 30, 65 St. Mary's stories have appeared. That is an average of three every day. Granted, Notre Dame has a lot more than that, but there are two reasons for this. First, like it or not, ND is a much larger school with more activities. The second reason, however, is that St. Mary's Student Government does not actively seek publication as Notre Dame does. 
The example of the United Way campaign was given. ND campaign directors contacted The Observer with information every day -so they had many articles and graphs published. At SMC, however, no one from the campaign ever contacted me. All articles we ran were from chasing the directors around campus and making numerous phone calls. 
It is not humanly possible for me to keep abreast of every committee's, class' and dorm's activities. Whenever someone ~omes to me with a story request or idea, I go out of my way to put it m the paper. If you let me know, I'll do it. Just let me know what you're doing! We can't cover what we don't know about. 
Finally, complaints that SMC stories repeatedly get stuck in the back of the paper simply aren't true. Since September 30, eleven SMC stories have appeared on page one, nine on page two and eleven on page three. Almost half of the SMC stories appeared on the first three pages. That's abetter track record than ND has! The other articles were spread throughout the paper -with comparatively few on the back pages. 
Please understand that we are all students, who cannot spend every waking minute at The Observer. Instead of criticizing us, please work with us to give St. Mary's the coverage it deserves. 

DOONESBURY by Garry Trudeau 


whoever decides how tickets are to fulfilled the student demand for be allotted. I go to St. Mary's and I tickets," once again ignoring SMC, happen to be one of the lucky girls which has not received nearly who "won" the lottery for tickets, enough tickets to fulfill the de­but I'm writing on behalf of the mand. Granted, St. Mary's does 
1500-plus girls that weren't not have a "right" to basketball "lucky" enough. Busick explained tickets, but I feel we should at least that, due to the increasing demand be considered before area fans. 
for tickets from South Bend area After all, we contribute to the spirit 
fans, student tickets were sold-over of these schools, and feel we are the summer. Somehow St. Mary's part of Notre Dame, although it was excluded from this student sale appears ND doesn't think so. and were, in essence, put on the have only one question: Are 
bottom of the list, allowed only 150 football tickets next to be put in a bleacher seats for the entire school. lottery? Busick also stated they "have Barb AbeD 
. ' 



Gazelle 
Brigid Rafferty 

..I am a gazelle ... I can fly like a bird in the sky ... I am so perfect, so divine, so ethereal, so surreal I cannot be compre­hended except by my permission." 
Anyone flaunting a self-image like that might be sloughed off as a rambling egotist, but when actress Cicely Tyson recited these extravagant lines from a Nikki Giovanni poem last night, no one thought she was a bit pretentious: Her enormous dramatic talent revealed that she can very well be whoever she wishes. And right now she is the most prominent Black actress of our time. 
Walking briskly onto the stage of O'Laughlin Auditorium twenty minutes after she was scheduled to, the star of Sounder, Roots, and The Autobiography of Miss Jane Pittman flashed a wide, toothy smile to her audience and explained that her plane from LaGuardia Airport had been delayed. She brought no props to assist her in the dramatic readings which were to follow, and her clothes and makeup were simple and understated. 
Before launching into the readings of poetry which she had selected, Tyson devoted the first half of her program to a question-and-answer session, in which the many sides of her personality appeared. "If I wait until the end of the readings to entertain questions, I usually never get away," she told her listeners. She grinned slyly and continued, "So, I thought I'd get a little slick. I do my questions, then my readings, and then I spOt!" Her first show of humor was a surprise to the audience, which surprisingly, filled only half of the auditorium, but was repeated soon when she told photographers that they would have exactly five seconds to take pictures of her. 
"Alright," she smiled, "ready, set, go!" After giving the go-ahead, she proceeded to gracefully pose her slender figure ("I haven't eaten in three days--1 fast!") in melodramatic Garbo poses, and to make silly faces. The audience loved it. On stage, she was completely relaxed, and radiated her feelings of contentment with self to her audience. 
A sense of being at ease with herself was indicated by the skillful manner in which she handled the barrage of questions which followed her invitation to "ask me anything you want!" 
Her answers covered topics from the length of time she spent in being made-up for her role as a 110-year-old woman in Jane Pittman (six hours per day) to her strong feelings onthe presentation of Black culture in the film world: 
''One of my main concerns in the last five years has been getting Black actors and actresses out of their stereotypes, like "Oeopatra Jones" and "Superfly" types. People don't know anything about "other" 
Black  people,  or  that  we  have  made  
contributions to  the wor ld.  One of the  
things  I  tried  to  show  as  Rebecca  in  

SoiiDder was that Black women do have love--for their husbands,· friends, and family. If Black actors demanded better roles, and held out for them, Hollywood would write better roles!" Her quiet statement, "If we stopped paying five dollars to see "Blacksploitation" films, they would stop making them," drew a round of applause. 
Tyson gave thoughtful answers to most of her questions, often gesturing expres­sively. She alluded a few times to her great amount of "nervous energy". She spoke of her own evolution as an actress which, she admits with a big smile, "is still a source of amazement to me! But that's what's so marvelous about life--you don't know what you can do until you're put to the task. I was paralyzed for four solid . days after finding out that I had received the role as Jane Pittman. I couldn't believe that I had the nerve to think that I could do the role!" 
Tyson, who studied acting in her hometown New York City after deciding that "I'm sure God didn't put me on the face of this earth to bang on a typewriter fo 
the rest of my life,'' told her audience that she thinks of characters as ".second skin. When the skin doesn't fit, I know the part's not for me. My method deals more with absorption than just memorizng, as most actors do. When I do a role, I spend a great deal of time researching it. For a film in which I play Harriet Tubman, I went to her h home and talked to two of her descendents. 
The woman's life was just incredible." Het expressive face lightened into a reflective smile. · 
Tyson admitted that her research with the aged for the role of Jane Pittman has given her a deep feeling for older people. "They are our historians. I feel very conscious of getting the knowledge they have while they are here." Her reflective tone of voice became more direct as she advised the audience, "Get their know­ledge now, while they're here." 
Still, Tyson also showed a deep appreci­ation and fondness for youth. When one front-row spectator introduced his two adolescent daughters to the actress and asked for "a message for young black women," Tyson smiled nostalgically, "Stay that age." 
Tyson enthusiastically answered a ques­tion about the value of being an actress. "Itis the ability to express whatever I feel, to have an outlet. So often," she said in a hushed voice, "we have a tendency to say what we mean in the way we say it, rather than what we say. When I act, my emotions come through." When asked what was most difficult about being an actress, however, Tyson responded, "I can't answer that," and tactfully changed the subject. . 
During the question period, Tyson exhibited a bright, perceptive nature in her well-thought-on awareness of the contem­porary Black situation in America and her emphasis on revealing tru Black lifestyles ­and history. But her wide-eyed facial expressions, sense of humor, and casual, vivacious interaction with the audience also showed a warm, sensitive personality behind the widely-admired actress. 
At one point during the questions, when an infant in the back of the auditorium began to wail, Cicely put up her hands, assumed a fascinated expression, and asked, in awe, "Is there a baby in the house?" She turned the attention of the audience to a five-month-old girl when she urged her mother to bring her on stage. Cicely held the baby, coddled her, chanted to her, and appeared delighted to have a baby in her arms. The audience reacted with a loud chorus of "Awwww"s. 
The depth of Tyson's personality which she showed in her "interview session" reinforced the tremendous emotion she· displayed in her readings of poetry by Langston Hughes, Giovanni, and others which she selected by paging through a scrapbook on the podium in front of her. Occasionally she would scan a poem to herself, smile, but shake her head and choose a different reading . She confessed that she does write herself, but doesn't read any of her own poems. 
In onw poem, in which a Black woman imagines a chance to "dance and whirl, when the day is done," and "running space" for her son, Ciceyly's serious stare relaxed into a dreaming, placid expression. 
The effect was almost heartbreaking: experiencing the innocent wishes of a Black mother who would be so content with what, to others, would seem so little, and realizing that even this might be too much for her to expect. 
Although many of Tyson's readings dealt with the nature of racial prejudice and injustice, several were also presented which were humorous and light-hearted. All contained the same elements of force and strength in total identification with the speakerofthepoem, however, as shown in one very short verse. 
As Cicely was browsing through her scapbook midway through the readings, a devilish grin suddenly perked up her face and she raised her eyes to the audience. She proceeded to read, "In an envelope marked 'personal', God wrote me a letter; in a letter marked 'God', I wrote him back.'' She smirked as the audience laughed, then confided in a husky tone, "I wasn't sure if I could do that or not!" 
She recited some nonsensical poetry, 
and used trilled accentes, affected tones, 
and exaggerated faces to match their sing-song qualities, as evidenced in one simple poem: "Sometimes I feel like I neeeeever stop . . . 'till one day I reach out ·and touch a handful of stars . . . and then I look over and say to God, 'How 'bout that'?" 
Tyson's great ability to maneuver dra­matic switches in mood and tone of her readings reached its peak in her most moving reading, which traced a small Black girl's first exposure to hostile racism. As the young girl about to embark on her first day of school, Tyson spoke with naive, innocent excitement of getting ready for school. Her tone shifted to one of confused sadness, and feelings of being lost when she nears her school and sees that white people are barring her entrance to it. When a lady who looks friendly spit~/ on her, the little girls' voice increases jn rhythm, reflecting fear; it increases 1to panic as she runs away, trying to reach a bench where she. hopes she will be safe. 

Finally, she reaches her mother. at the school where her mother teaches--by now, her voice is trembling and nears breaking s as she tries to understand the ways of the · world which her mother has known all along. 
Cicely Tyson, ghetto-child-turned-star, refuses to accept any film roles which will detract from her proud identity as a Black woman. Her identity is an essential part of her, as well as a major factor in her talent as a dramatist--she has both insight, from her own experiences and perceptive aware­ness of true human nature, and profes­sional polish to convey this human emotion in its true essence, while maintaining a degree of dignity and control over the character. The chance to experience "An Evening with Cicely Tyson" can almost lead one to believe that she is "so ethereal, so surreal"--but her messages are ones which all persons can comprehend. 


With Every Performance,Another Memory 
Greg Solman 

It is perhaps ironic that Bob Hope, as he travels the globe, bringing with him the excitement that accompanies legends, should sing to his audiences, "Thanks for the memories." Certainly, it is those that see him, like the nearly 8,000 that were entertained at the ACC last Friday night, that are left with fond memories of an 
with one of the world's premier 

""'"-""''" 
As the evening took its course, Hope's reportoire of repartee left hardly a stone unturned in his attempt to satirize the world around him. Among the items on the list of fair game on this particular occasion: 
ldi Amin, flying on airplanes, government and politics, Catholicism, bars and drink­ing, and polish people. Even homo­sexuality was ribbed until one had to wonder how Hope has managed to avoid having his own Bryant-like contingent of gay protesters at each performance ... but hehas marraged, perhaps by his institution of Joey Heatherton, who has been known to attract more than her fair share of adamant heterosexuals. 
Being at Notre Dame, Hope could not avoid making a few cracks about the institution. Hope has a long-standing relationship with the school, dating back to 
he a Big Crosby "tried out for the football team" years ago. Though Hope has never received an honorary degree for 
Dame--as he has from thirteen other institutions of higher learning--he remain in contact with the school his love of golf, which he with Notre Dame Athletic n•··--•-­"Moose" Krause, and through mances here that date back fieldhouse. 
Hope described his filmed at Notre Dame four being one of his most maintained that the perfect" for his nPrfnorm 
With each nprfnrm<lnor-P ates his being asked back. again, he has proven very his latest appearance, he 
the student here amazed "they can actually understand ley." He attributed Joe Mr•nt''"" against USC to the fact never heard signals called ribbed that almost 

Thursday night show," writes before you could say 'Bing brushing my teeth with helping General Sarnoff in Morse Code." the 275 television specials, probably most commonly en1terltai11ed troops over­but two wars. Add to nicfu1·es. many of them t(}----" fame, that weird outfits and their comic appeal, of a legend. say that the 74 has gone unrewar­under the pressure of which he's logged Hope has over range from :.slx:I<Lulm Award rP.c•P.hrP.il from 
tor recalled, ''and this particular round, 
Bob hit five shanks." 
Krause, knowing Hope to be a usually 
excellent golfer, waited with some anxiety 
to see what Hope's reaction would be to his 
bad luck. 
"He turned to me after the fifth shank," 
recalled Krause, "and said, 'What do you 
know, Moose, I've just perfected the 
shank!'" · 
Krause maintains that Hope has always 
felt something special for Notre Dame-­
that he loves the spirit and enthusiasm that 
abounds here. In fact, Krause insists that 
Hope had a lot to do with motivating the 
administration into building the Athletic 
and Convocation Center. 
"At the end of a performance at the old fieldhouse, the students were all avidly urgingHope to stay and perform longer," recounted Krause, "with three priests, · including Father Hesburgh in back of him, he turned to the students and said, 'I ·really must be going ...besides, it must be 
almost title to let the cattle back into this 
barn.".. 
Plans were started for the building of a new athletic "facility soon after that, Krause .recalled. . \ -­
In a world where mediocritY seems 
increasingly evident, those who support 
humanitarian efforts, those who still feel a 
great deal of patriotism, and those who 
exult in a good laugh have reason to :rejoice--for there is still Hope. 
[Photo by Greg Trzupek] 

rp~~---~-.·.=--:-:-~--Q-:-~~:.·:-8-:----~•-W•e-dn-es-d-ay-,-No-v-em-b-er-9~,~~~77------~----------~--------~-----~ 

general record store 


AI-Anon provides services at ND' 
have. committees; these include Execu­
by Jim Coyne 

Cronin stated that sometimes tive, Policy, Budget, Public Rela·· students who themselves have tions, Institutional, and Literature ..
According to Director Peggy drinking problems are referred to There are over 12,000,000Cronin, Al-Anon at Notre Dame is a her by the Dean of Students. These problem drinkers in the U.S.
"service provided for students are generally students who have According to Cronin, denial ofwhose parents have a drinking been involved in situations where alcoholism is often one of theproblem." Cronin went on to say drinking was the cause of some biggest problems facing the alco­that many times the parents' type of problem. There is a holic. She added that alcoholics are 
$1~~~
drinking problem can affect a separate program to aid these "Sick people" but many times,student's life, and cause the stu­students. those affected by the alcoholic aredent to have personal adjustment 
any LP

Al~Anon came to be in 1951, "sicker, because they must put up problems. 
when relatives of alcoholics rea­with the alcoholic," and there ar1eParticipants in the program come 

ceramic and plaster things 
lized that they had problems also, not many outlets for them. 
together at meetings and talk to and that they needed to apply the On campus, there are two Al­
with student ID

one another about the drinking same principles that helped alco­Anon meetings available for stu­problem that is affecting them. 
holics on the road to recovery. The dents to share; Wednesday, at 6:45Members of the South Bend 12 steps of Alcoholics Anonymous p.m., on the 4th floor of theCommunity Al~Anon work as spon­
hours

were adopted as guiding princip­Memorial Library, and Friday, at 
W!'re ar: 207 N. Michigan St.
;;ors of the campus group, and les. From 1951 to 1976, over 12,000 10:15 a.m. at Holy Cross House.
share their experiences with the 
River Bend Raza 11 1o 7 pm Mon -Thurs
groups in the U.S., Canada, and Anyone desiring further informa­students. Meetings are not manda­
next 1o Monis Civc Auditorium 
11 1o 9 pm Fri -Sat

many countries overseas were tion concerning Al-Anon shouldtory, and the anonymity of partici­added to the original number of 50. call 8809. 
pants is stressed. Last year, 24 
students took part in the program. 
AI-Anon here at Notre Dame educates students, concerning the problems of alcohol, and also the way that it affects people. It is an aid in displacing students from the problem, and helps erase any feelings of guilt that they might 


'Faster's mass' held tonight 

Fr. Frank Quinlivan from the Justice and Peace Center in South Bend will celebrate the "faster's mass" in Walsh Hall's chapel tonight at 5:15p.m. The theme of this week's mass will be "aware­ness of poverty in South Bend." 

Choir performs 

The ND~SMC collegiate choir will perform along with the women's chorus and the Madrigal singers 
tomorrow  in  O'Laughlin  
Auditorium at 8p.m.  Admission is  
free.  


SU accepting movie applications 

Student Union is now accepting applications for movie dates from any club or organization approved by the Student Affairs office. 
Applications may be picked up in the Student Union office, second floor LaFortune, and returned by this Monday. 

WHEN YOU NEED DUALITY PRINTING· IN AHURRY •.. CALL THE BEST 

Legally known as The Al-Anon Family Group, its headquarters are located on East 23rd St. in New York City. Volunteers make up all 
ahe 


l1)i1~jammer 
CREATIVE HAIR DESIGN FOR THE SEXES 
RElAXING ATMOSPHERE 
-
FREE HAIR ANALYSIS 
RK RETAU.. CENTER 
1637 LWW 
So. !!end 
232·6622 
Appt. only. 
I • ' ~ ,. ,, it, ; t ,' .~\' 11.·· 
:.·.··: .. >:.. :Jr~·;:; 
in traducing: 



[McSORLEY'S ALE ] tonight at the Library 8-12 
free T-shirts, posters plus more N. D. films 
KING OF BEERSIJI • ANHEUSER-BUSCH, INC. • ST LOUIS 


WHEN DO CHEERLEADERS SAY BUDWEISER®r 
1HIS GIJY I'M SfANVIN6 ON 15 WOB8LIN6 N:AJN. WHYCAN'T IEVER Gff lHE Bl6 6JY WHEN WE NW<£ 1HBE PYAAMIVS!? IF I Clff ANY I<JNVA VOICE U:Fr AFTER 1HI561\ME,IM GOI\INA YELL 
''6/MMEA 8 .. . 
61MM£AU.. . GIMME A 0 .. .1'1 


~--~----------------~-----~----­

Carter appeals for program 
[Continued from page 1] .• At the same time, the President provide an incentive for new oil and the Senate," he said. again w~ critical of some seg­production that "would be the 
It is a test of the nation's ments of the oil and gas industry, highest in the world,'' and that gas strength and will to "acknowledge which in a news . conference last producers would add $2 billion a the threat and meet a serious month he likened to war profiteers year to their gross incot:ne. challenge together," the President seeking "the biggest ripoff in "But some of the oil companies 
said. history." want much more -tens of billions of Carter, who may need every vote Carter argued that his proposals dollars more. 
he can muster on the energy issue, had kind words for Congress and, in an apparent effort to counter any impression that he was going over 

HPC awards trophy
the heads ofthelegislators, sought to place the public in the role of [Continued from page 1] _ specific time limit for each speaker, partners with the Senate and concerning upcoming SU events. and mandated that speakers sub-House. He noted the National Shakespear-mit a written copy of their presen-
Lobbying in the months-long ian Company's presentation of "A tation to Russell by noon the Friday energy debate has· been heavy and Winter's Tale" on Monday and a before the Tuesday meeting. Carter noted in his address that Dustin Hoffman film festival play-Several members objected to this "the political pressures are great." ing the remainder of this week. He deadline, noting that important 
"The choices facing the mem-also announced a wine and cheese issues often develop "at the last bers of Congress are not easy," he party to be held Nov. 20. minute." Eight members voted for declared. "For them to pass an the proposal and four against with effective and fair plan, they will A proposal to limit the time seven abstentions. A two-thirds need your support and understand-allotted for outside speakers at vote was required for approval of ing -your support to resist pres-HPC meetings was rejected by the the proposal. sures from a few for special favors council. Lyons Hall President Later in the meeting the HPC at the expense of the rest of us, and Jayne Rizzo said that the proposal awarded the Rockne trophy to your understanding that there can was "repressive" and was joined Pangborn and Lyons for their hall be no effective plan without some by other HPC members. activities and spirit displayed in the sacrifice from all of us." The proposal would have set a Jg9Dtl! of Oct. 
1~:::::·:=-::,~~=:~::,---c--1-a--s--s-•1-f-·1_ed a s._.l 
I 
ing of the Christian Faith and Catholic ary until July. One bedroom•. mce hvmg tradition? Considering the possibility of room, pool.. Com~l~tley furmshed, fully I becoming a Catholic? For more informa-carpeted.• a1r cond1t10ned. $199 monthlyI tion, drop by the Campus Ministry office plus ut1htles. Call 272-9805. I in the Memorial library or Badin Hall, or I caiiS536 or 3820. 71 Toyota Excellent condition. 30 MPG. Need$$$: Sell me 5 NO Air Force GA PERSONALSI 272-3634 after 6 pm. tickets. Call Jim, 3559. Anyone wishing to vote in Indiana's May I
• election should call Moat 4-4001. Classic ovation guitar with hard shell CAN YOU SPARE TWO GA AF TIX? IF c 115766 J t b'rthd k" 1 
t. A k' M t a ... an wan s a 1 ay ISS...... I 
ova JOn case. s mg $225· us se11 · SO CALL [ANYTIME] ANITA, 7852. The BeanI Typing. Reasonable rates. Call 8051. Call Gene at 1694. I TYPEST WANTED: Fulltime, to typeset Dear Public:
• 
MORISSEY LOAN FUND Stereo speakers: JBL-liS speakers. display advertising Monday and Wed-Nothing has happened to 1011 Flanner I
Natural oak finish. 277-4057. s d ft d
student loans of $2o-$150 with one day nesday thru atur ay a ernoons an or -we are still alive and well and longingI wait. One percent interest, due in 30 evenings. Hourly pay. Experience for your bods. What happened to you?
1974·

days. LaFortune basement, M-F, 11:15-Camaro -Air conditioning, red, helpful, but not necessary. Apply in Does anyone really care who lives in I 
• 12:15. 24,000 miles. Showroom condition. person at : The Penny Saver, 2102 S. 1011? .
1 I
277-4056. Michigan St., South Bend, 288-1411. Bus service to Chicago every Friday this WHY PAY MORE? Flanner Records has It really takes discipline and courage to I 
semester. Buses arrive at the circle at NEED: ND -St. Mary's night work. pass up one like that -M Bruce­
• 505 F t. k t · f0 II Sh 8330 all $6.981ist lp's only $4.50. All $7.981ist N' I • ta St 
: · or IC e m ca ep, · lp's only $5.29. Over 400 records and l.co as res uran t' 809 N · M' IC h'lgan · You're the graetest Bruce in the world! I
Part time or fulltime. Hourly pay. Attention: Membership applications for
I "We're OK -You're OK gay community albums in stock. Phone orders accepted. Waitresses -Busboys -Pizza maker -the Kilbride Fan Club are available in Thanks for the spam, CSN tix, more guide to ND-S.B.. Pandora's, $1.00, or FLANNER RECORDS, 322 Flanner, Dishwasher. Apply in person to : room 247. See Kestereno. spam, and other sexual endeavors. We 1 
• box 206 ND phone2741. Hours, M-Th, 4-5, 6:3Q-8:00 Nicola's Restaurant. all love you! 
I 
Sunday 2-3:30. Repentant, Spamingly, Bruce and Sheila 1I Gay community at ND lnfoline -Friday You can reach me at NO 3023 anytime! and Saturday -10-12 pm. 8870. FOR RENT Gratefully yours, M, J, and K I Somebody You are afew in a million! I'm proud to1Will do typing. Neat, accurate. Hours, Will tared coors and or $$$ for one Air -----------------------be your roomie! 1 9-6. Call : 287-5162. Apartment for Rent-Fabulous one of a Force ticket. Kevin, 283-1582. Joe, S kind townhouse on river in Elkhart. Working as an elevator man wouldn't II COLLEGE GRADS Sunken living room, fireplace, swimming Need riders to Ohio State. Leave come out right for you. It's not too hard, Happy Birthday I PEACE CORPS AND VISTA pool, sunken red Japanese soaking tub, Thursday 11-10, afternoon. Call Donna, but you can't do a good job without a To Peter and the Big Guy in Boxers.I The Peace Corps and VISTA offer unique dishwasher, laundry equipment in each 272-3634. helping hand. Tud, crud, and dud. I I 
I 
opportunities for qualified individuals to unit, winding staircase, some with sky-Margaret use their knowledge and skill in help to light. Leases conform to school year. Need a ride to Cincinnati or Indianapolis MB and J send their warmest regards to I developing countries in Africa, South Nothing like it anywhere! 294-2151. on Friday, November 11th. Can leave EXPERIENCED MINSTRELS FOR HIRE two of the nicest heads of hair in Keenan. 
America, Asia, and all over the United It d h J h Serenading a specialty. Also, custom 
I 
11 ·11 5 0States. Build abetter future for others as Three bedrooms available on N. Eddy -a er an WI are expenses. n, songwriting. Call Ringo and Jaster 8243. 1 you enhance your own. Openings in a good location to school. Call 282_ 1380. Kurt Russell-I only have eyes for you. 
I 
1964. variety of fields. Living expenses, travel WANTED: 1 student season basketball Need 4GA tickets for the Air Force game. Anne-O 1 and other benefits are provided. For ticket. Will pay$. Call Maribeth at 7471 CALL Ron 1423. I 
more info on how to apply, contact be . h --------------------'about time you turned 19! Party 1
10 d 12 277 0190 
1
volunteer recruiters on campus Nov. tween an or -at mg t. St. Mary's students: Seats are available hearty! 15-17. Sign up in the Placement Bureau 2 need ride to Chicago on November 19. on the New York Area charter flight; Dec. Patty Horse 1 immediately for an interview. LOST AND FOUND Call 6326. 22nd and Jan 16th. Call Mary Laverty: 4319 Rose, Chris, and Chrissy, 
1 

I 
I SOCIAL SCIENCE MAJORS LOST: A navy blue backpack with 2 Graduate student: Room and Board at · 'ciao from Roma. I miss you all. VISTA(Volunteers in Service to America) notebooks and 2 accounting books. gracious home for cooking evening meal. This is your personal problem, Jan! Have Love, Gina 1 needs individuals with your educational PLEASE call 7007 if found. NO Contact c. West, Room 120, Memorial a Happy Birthday! I 
I 
background for volunteer work in public QUESTIONS ASKED. Library. Love, Gina Happy Birthday Jan Clements! 1 health, housing, youth counseling, com-Love, Ka-Ka-Katie munity development, geriatrics, or work-LOST: ND class ring Library washroom. Need 1 GA Air Force ticket. Please call Free kittens to good home. Call I I 
ing with the handicapped. Help people Reward, Dave-1582. Kelly: 1266. evenings, 256-0779. Tinker, help themselves. Paid travel; living You eat and smell like a pig. Take a 1 allowance; medical benefits and more. LOST: a pair of brown frame glasses. If Need GA or student tix for Air Force. HELP! Someone hit and ran. Big shower and learn how to eat. I 
For more information on benefits and found, call Annie, 7852. My eyes will Call Ed 3708. I I 
requirements, see VISTA recruiters on love you. Damages done to my green and white Za campus Nov. 15-17. Sign up for an car. Anyone having any information I interview now in the Placement Bureau. LOST: Before break, Blue nylon "St. Needed: A ride to Cleveland Friday, Nov. about an accident In B-2 parking on Now come on Za, don't beat around the 
11. Willing to share driving and gas Friday Oct. 21st between 1-5 call Pat bush. Just come right out and tell us I
Mary's Track" J"acket with Bob sewn on expense Maryellen 1362 
I 
I 
I 
I MATH AND SCIENCE MAJORS the front. Priceless sentimental value. · ' · 7620. what's bugging you. Why be so subtle? Consider an alternative: Join the Peace Rob, 8464. Need ride to Long Island for Thanksgiv-I Corps. Developing nations in South ing. Will share driving expenses. Call If you have any printing, layout or The little toad didn't like the first ad America, Africa and Asia are asking for LOST: Hewlette Packard 45 calculator sue 8085 managment experience and would like about her. This one she'll probably liktl 1 volunteers to teach math and science. lost before break in brown vinyl case. ' · part time, on campus work, call campus less. However, the 3rd ad will reveal her Challenging assignments for creative, Reward, call Andy-8886. · Need riders to Des Moines area for press 7407, 1-5 mon-fri; ask for Bill or real name for the edification of the entire 1 energetic individuals. Paid travel; Thanksgiving. Call sara-4-4008 after 6 John. This is a paid position. campus. I 
I 
monthly living allowance; health benefits WANTED -------------------I and more. Must be aUS citizen, single or pm. TO All OBESERVER NIGHT EDITORS Come to the Disco and Dance contest. married with no dependents. No upper Addressers wanted immediately! Work Need tix for Clemson game. Call colect AND ASSISTANT NIGHT EDITORS: Saturday, Nov. 12, LaFortune Ballrom. 1 age limit. Contact Peace Corps recruiters · 312-656-6363 or 312-436-0352. Ask for Meeting this thursday night, Nov. 10, 8:3o-1:00. Prize-2 t1'ckets to Hall and
at the Placement Bureau Nov. 15-17. at home -no expenence necessary -L 1 Sign up for an interview today. excellent pay. Write American Service, en. 1977. Attendance is required. At 8:30 Oates. Donation•-50 cents.I 8350 Park Lane, Suite 269, Dallas TX pm. 75231. I need 4GA tix for the Air Force game. If -----------All OBSERVER STAFF MEMBERS who 
1
CIVIL ENGINEERS

I you can help, call Russ at 8772. y v · h t h th · · · 
Lines of transportation, dams, health es anessa, WIS o ave e1r pictures m the Dome I clinics and schools are needed in develop-Male business students to make collec-NEED: Ride to Southside of Chicago, There is a Parsnips Day!! be at the Observer office at 8pm nextI I ing countries. As a Peace Corps ~on ca~s-11 t;t h~s. ~er nigth~~25~ per Friday, Nov. 11th. Please call Sue at Otto Claus Tuesday, 11-15. This includes you too, I
1 

volunteer you can help... ln Africa, South our. a r. en ron a · 4-4563. Dear Observer Staff·. _st_._M_a_ry_'s_.-------------­
America, or Asia. You do it all, from 
I

I preliminary plans to supervision of Need GA Air Force tickets. Call Claire, RIDERS: Looking for riders on Nov. 23rd All classified adds must be placed in Arnold and Waldorf,
28 

I 
I construction. Its challenging and reward-9-6533. heading south to Atlanta via Louisville, person-not by phone. I am too busy for 'thankx for the unexpected birthday I ing in personal and professional growth. NEED EXTRA MONEY? Sell Olde world · Nashville, and Chattanooga. Call Karen such service! Sorry. present! Your behavior on the quad Paid travel; monthly living allowance; Industrial home cleaning supplies and or Bill, 61&429-3507. Thanks, Mom compels me to request your presence on 1 health benefits and more. Must be a US s f the Alice Malice Show as pr1
·madonna. 

I. "t) persona1 care products. orne o our 
I 
citizen, 18 years of age (no upper 1m1 • people are earning over $1000 weekly. Snuggley-Blow those Chips Shriners. 1 single or married with no dependents. All depends on your ability and time. The weekend was the greatest but it I 
Peace Corps recruiters on campus Nov. Brasilia, P.O. box 2023, Elkhart, lnd, took me until now to recover! You wear a VANESSA, I 15-17. Sign ~p no~ in the Placement 46515, or call Elkhart, 293 -0531, guy out! Well ...on to more (pro)creative REMEBER..... "AT LEAST I HAVE Bureau for an mtervlew. 264-1501 (nights). things. (P.S.-I love you.) LIF£" ..... SMILEI ·.. :<,· 
Upper Class Twit.
\ 
~~---------~-~-~---~-~----~----------------~ 
"'­
Wednesday, November 9, 1977
the observer 






Aerial attack takes off under Toman 
by Tony Pace Sports Writer 

49, 43 and 69. Those are the point totals which the Notre Dame offense hasaccumulated in their past three games. One of the men whose responsible for these offen­sive fireworks is assistant coach Ron Toman. 
Toman, who is now in his second. season at Notre Dame, is in charge of the quarterbacks and the re­ceivers. In a sense, he is the man responsible for the Irish passing attaack, an attack which has flour­ished in recent weeks. 
"We are very pleased with the way our whole offense, and our passing in particular, has devel­oped," said Toman. "We have moved from just the basic plays which we used during the first few weeks of the season to a more intri­cate offense. We have added a play ~~ two to our offense each week. 
This evolution of the offensive strategy, coupled with the develop­ment of individual players, has given the Notre Dame offense a more wide open look. "In some respects, " Toman noted, "one might say that we have opened up the.offensea little more. However, I think we are taking better advantage of the people who are on our offensive team. We are now using Joe Montana and our re­ceivers as we have always wanted to." 
The present quarterback sit­uation, to use Toman's own words, "is set pretty good." Montana, Rusty Lisch and Tim Koegel all have the size, speed, throwing ability and football knowledge which Toman feels is necessary to become solid signal callers. 
Toman also added the intangible quality of leadership to the repe­toire of a successful quarterback. He said, "Joe, Rusty, and Tim can all throw the football, it is just a matter of who can take the offen­sive unit by the horns and make the club move. These type of things are just something which you often fall into and I am very pleased with the way the team has rallied." 
One player whose development has contributed significantly to the production of the offense is wide receiver Kris Haines. The junior 
Paul Stevenson 

The Irish Eye 
Clemson A waits 
The Notre Dame football team makes a return visit to the Deep South 
this Saturday to tackle Clemson. The Tigers have logged a 7-1-1 record 
thus far through their 1977 campaign. After losing their first outting 
against Maryland, 21-14, Clemson went on to win seven straight games. 
Then, last Saturday the Tigers had to settle for a tie with North 
Carolina. Obed Ariri handles the kicking chores for the Tigers. Until last 
weekend's game with the Tarheels, the Nigerian place kicker had hit on 17 
of 17 extra points. After Oemson's second touchdown against North 
Carolina, Ariri's point after total dropped below the 100 percent level. 
Because the extra point specialist missed his one-point try, the Tigers 
ended up tying the Tarheels, 13-13. 
However, Ariri was not the only one to aid Clemson in leaving Chapel 
Hill with a tie. The Tigers' punter funbled the snap from center at the five 
yard line to set up North Carolina's opening field goal. Aside from that 
error, the Tigers' gave the Tarheels another chance later in the contest. 
Oemson had driven down to the North Carolina 19 yard line and was 
moving well enough to score. At least they were in position for a field 
goal. But, the Tigers fumbled and the Tarheels proceeded to drive down 
the field into field goal range and kicked the tying three-pointer with just 
over a minute to play that ended the scoring at 13-13. 
So, Clemson had plenty of opportunities to capture their eight straight 
victory, but fell just short of that goal, even with all of their crucial 
mistakes. Maybe the Clemson gridders were anticipating the invasion of 
the Fighting Irish on Saturday. 

Clemson's stadium holds 43,451. All of those seats were sold out on 
September 2, the first game to sell out for the Tigers. Since that capacity 
was reached, the Tigers added 9,000 endzone seats for Saturday's clash. 
Thus, with 52,451 fans, over 11,000 of them being students, one can 
expect the atmosphere to be less than friendly. 
Because of last weekend's tie, Clemson dropped from thirteenth to 
fifteenth in the AP wire service poll. Meanwhile, the Irish, while still 
maintaining the fifth position, gained a lot of ground on number-four 
ranked Ohio State. 

Last week, the Irish trailed the Buckeyes by 216 points. This week, 
however, Notre Dame trails Ohio State by 110 points with 798 total 
markers, compared to 908 for the Buckeyes. Notre Dame also extended 
their margin over Michigan from 60 points to 110. 
The Irish have played extremely well in their last three contests. 
However, all of these battles have been at home. How well the Green 
Machine fairs on the road will be thoroughly tested in Greenville, South 
Carolina. The Tigers are ready for this game and have been waiting for it 
all season. 

Clemson Sports Information Director, Bob Bradley, was quoted in the 
November 8 Chicago Tribune as saying, "Everyone gets keyed up about 
playing Notre Dame, and th~ intensity has mounted because no expected 
our team to be 7-1-1 at this point." 
Well, the Tigers have a new coach this year by the name ofCharlie Pell. 
Pell has certainly turned last year's 3-6-2 squad completely around. This 
team has built up a tremendous amount of confidence over their last eight 
games and is ready todisplay its talents against the number-five ranked 
Irish. With a win over Notre Dame, the Tigers could receive a lot of 
national recognition. 

Notre Dame has proven that th..::y have the makings of a top-ranked 
team. However, each and every week, the Irish must continue to prove 
that they deserve the top spot. 

Clemson will be giving their all to prevent the Irish ffom leaving Greenville with a victory. Notre Dame's record in the South has not been overwhelming. Mississippi already gave the South one victory, this is not the time for number two. 
The Tigers have played one common Irish opponent, that teambeing Georgia Tech. Clemson soundly defeated the Ramblin' Wreck, 31-14 in Atlanta. The Irish should remember how difficult a time they had last year in Georgia. It's very hard to compare scores between different teams at different locations. However, one thing is for certain, Clemson did not attain their record by just putting on their uniforms. 
The Tigers boast a very stingy defense and the Irish must continue to vary their offense and use some wide open play selection. The confederate flags will be waving, so, the Irish better be ready for a challenge when they go to Greenville. 
The game will be difficult, especially since it's in the Tigers home arena. The Irish have the potential, but Clemson will not make it easy. If the Notre Dame gridders play like they have been the last few weeks, they can emerge victorious. But, they must do just that; play this game like they tiiV.e since :October )2 ll,nd not-just live on their past three performances; bceause Clemson will certainly be emotionally high and ready to play. 

AP-Texas, Alabama, Oklahoma, Colgate, Ohio State, Notre Dame and Michigan. 
Tiny Colgate might sound and look funny nestled among college football's elite teams, but the Red Raiders of the Chenango Valley are there-courtesy of the 9-0 record and their position as the No. 20 team in The Associated Press' poll. 
The little school in Hamilton, 
N.Y. with an enrollment of 2,500 gained entrance into the AP rank­ings for the first time ever, receiving eight points in the nation­wide balloting of sports writers and broadcasters. 
A more established football pow­erhouse, Texas, 8-0, must get by Texas Christian, Baylor and Texas A&M to remain undefeated. The 
Women~s &~ball······ 
Of course, the major cog in the Irish pasing attack is All-American tight end Ken MacAfee. The senior from Brockton, Mass­achusetts now has 42 receptions for the season and he is being men­tioned as a factor in the voting for the Heisman Trophy. "I don't think I can say anything about Ken which hasn't already been said," Toman indicated. "When I first came here, I detected a slight flaw in the way he postioned his hands as he was preparing to receive the ball. However, as I was going over to speak to him about it, a ball was thrown in his direction; he reached behind him, with only one hand, and made a catch which he by no means should have been able to make. I stopped in my tracks because he has some of those God­given abilities which a coach just can't teach." 
MacAfee's presence helps the offense not only because of his abilities, but also because of the defensive attention which he attracts. ''Because many teams are putting more than one man on Ken, other things open up for the rest ofthe offense. And, even with this coverage, he manages to get free." 
Although bowl speculation has been rampant during the recent days, Toman prefers to take one game at a time. He is particularly concerned with this week's Oemson encounter. "We have our hands full this week withOemson," 
said Toman, "they are really a good football team. We'll be concerned with the bowl game after the regular schedule is finished." 
speedster had his best game ever against Georgia Tech with four receptions for 73 yeards, including a 19 yard touchdown. 
"I am very pleased with Kris," said Toman. "In the past, his high suit has been blocking, but he worked very hard over the summer on his concentration and on his pass routes and it has shown this season. He is runing excellent routes and that was most evident last Saturday." 
Behind Haines at the wide receiver post are two sophomores, Ty Dickerson and Speedy Hart. Toman expects both Dickerson and Hart to play a lot of football for the Irish in the next few years. "For a young player to come in from high school and do well right away as a receiver, he must know how to read the different pass coverages and how to adjust his pass patterns to those coverages. Our younger players are now learning this and they are starting to pick it up. 


Top Twenty features Texas and Colgate 
t~m< iii'IDQUnc-d ye:::t!~e; w!!c~~~;:~a:i;::P~!~~-T~x~~~w~:a~nR~:;::~~~~~tB~:i~ 
Longhorns were voted No. 1 for the points followed by Kentucky with third straight week in a row, 568 points, eighth-ranked Arkan­picking up 61 first place ballots and sas,536, Penn State, 464, and 1,308 of a possible 1.320 points for Pittsburgh, last year's national the 66 voters. champion, with 339 points. 
No. 2 Alabama and No. 5 Notre Pitt, No. 12 last week, walloped Dame received two first place votes West Virgina 44-3 and supplanted apiece with one for seventh-ranked idle Texas A&M as the No. 10 Kentucky. team. Texas A&M dropped one 
Alabama totaled 1,072 points to notch and was followed in the 1,020 for No. 3 Oklahoma. Fourth-Second Ten by Nebraska, Brigham ranked Ohio State received 908 Young, Southern California, Clem­points while Notre Dame earned son, Florida State, Arizona State, 
798. Texas Tech, North Carolina and Next came Michigan with 688 Colgate.
Monte Towle==================================================================================================================: 


Jock Jibberish 

=======================================================================================================:Bits and Pieces 
~\:1~17;1& "Pi!i¢n'$ vat~i~ 
basketbatf team was .. chp~eu last weekend. f~ among tfie 30 girls trytn~ oUt;~~ were named Jo. the squad~· ··.--.:-:~::.:::t:!:~?::·:· ..;;:_.:_ .. :: >-· 
New ~o tlje team this year a~ ftiishme~ Maggi~ Lally, Katljy Lew,. Gatti~ .R(l()ney~ and A~ Smith. Soplt~h,or¢~ MoUY <:ash· man, 'l(;:eUy Hiei.h .l\ificfi.el~ 
O'Haren, fi~m~a~obillar4, Eu~i£e Sullivan, and ~pi~;>t Byrne Murphy also m.a4e the squad.. · .. Returning for another season will be Beth Conlisk, Carola Cummings, Carol Lally, Mar8e Meagher, Pay Meyer, and Jane Politislri, Mary Humms will act as manager and· the team will have the honor of· the first female trainer in the history of Notre Dame, junior Diane Shillin· burg. 
Coach Sharon Petro sees "~ great deal of potential" in the predominantly underclassmen team. "Our biggest problem will probably be lack of heignt, so that just means we will have to capita· lize on our quickness and defensive skills,·• concluded Petro. 
When asked what the goal of th girls will be this season, Petro quickly exclaimed, ''"'to win the state championship, of course.... 
The Irish women will begin their 
;fo~~:~t ~~~dh~~o;v~hne ~:~~o~;~rrJo~~s~~:~~!d{!::eP;;:~rs~~~~h~~!f":~ 
make an ideal designated hitter for the Rangers and he must be looking 
ahead to hitting in Texas Stadium. Texas needed a productive power 
hitter and although the terms of the signing have not been released, I 
would bet that Zisk is about as rich as Reggie Jackson is right now. Who's 
Larry Hisle? 
Rumor: Tom Heinsohn's job on the line. The Boston Celtics can not seem to win a basketball game. So who gets the blame? Why, the coach of course. Never mind that Heinsohn has been one of the more succesful NBA coaches in recent years. NBA Owners and general managers have short memories. In this case, Red Auerback has always hovered like an old mother hen over Coach Heinsohn, watching his every move. Joe Hall of Kentucky knows the feeling. There have been reports that the Sidney Wicks holdout has caused dissension but the sloppy play of Dave Cowens and the injury to Jo Jo White have not helped matters any. And for the last time, .John Havliceck is not washed up. He's been playing as well as he's ever played in the last three years. But, NBA coaches are c:xpendable. Just ask Gene Shue. 
Observation: Right now, the Notre Dame football team is the best college team in the United States. Now for a look at Notre Dame football. . .49-l9 .. .43-10 ...69-l4. So what's Ole Miss done lately? Who 
ares? What's Texas done lately? I'd have to say that we care because we 
c1ight be seeing them sometime in January. When you think about it, Coach Dan Devine has molded a powerhouse as was expected by thf! prognosticators last summer. He inherited a team that had been decimated by graduating players three years ago and has gathered such a bevy of talent under him, that it's no wonder that the Irish are winning big now. It is a case of a sound coach with a sound coaching philosophy with a sound group of players. 
Lament: I was really sorry to see Monte Towe dropped by the Denver Nuggets. He was only 5'6" but an exciting player at that who just couldn't quite cut it in the NBA. Besides, it was like seeing my name as being the one dropped by the Nuggets and not some N.C.State alumnus. No, my first name isn't really Monte(it's Mike) and my last name isn't pronounced "towel," it's more like "toll." But even though I've never 
~asan December 3, at ho,Pe, whei(-:.met the. real Monte T~t:· I fe~l..·~ though ·I've kno':"n: him for a longtime. theyfaceV.alparaiso. ·:: · ;..·:-'<·,·Seeya'around·:·Monte; .... ···..· · .:.· 
.... 




