

server 
an independent student newsll1aper serving notre dame and st. mary's
Monday, September 26,1977 20
~~~~~~~~~~~II~IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Vim~.ixn~,N~oi.~~ 
MCAT changesdramatically: 'cognitive skills' stressed 
by Dave Rumbacch Staff Reporter 
Major changes in one of the key factors in gaining entry to medical school, the Medical College Ad­mission Test (MCAT), indicate that admissions directors are emphasiz­ing "insight" and "problem sol­ving" more than ever before 
in selecting America's future doc­tors. 
As a result of a five-year. $1 million project initiated by the Association of American Medical Colleges (AAMC). the MCAT has been dramatically changed: in length. from four sections in three hours to six !>t:ctions in six hours; in scoring, from an SAT 200-800 scak to a nev. 1-15 scale; and in emphasis, from "rote memor­ization" to "higher cognitive skills." 
In 1971 tht· AAMC, prompted by complaints from a large p·Jrtion of the medical profession, created a task force of preproffesional ad­visors, admissions officers and practicing physicians to devise a format for a new MCAT. 
Two years later, format com­pleted, the AAMC awarded the contract for research and develop­ment of the test itself to the American Institute for Research (AIR). The test was completed three years later and was first administered last April to 30,000 med school candidates. 
Fr. Joseph Walter, chairman of 
preproffessional studies at Notre 
Dame. served on the task force 
committee representing advisors, a 
group of 12 members from four 
nation-wide regions. 
"The old test was satisfactory for 
the first 20 years but as the number 
of applicants with different back­
grounds increased, dissatisfaction 
grew," Walter stated. "Com­
plaints from admissions officers, 
students, doctors and health o­
fficials led to the AAMC mandate 
to re.,ise the test five years ago," 
he added. 
Tht: main problem with the old 
test, said Walter, was that it 
tended to produce doctors who 
were "safe" but not necessarily "good." "A safe doctor is one who never makes really big mistakes but lacks the insight, ... the ability to put textual knowledge and diagnostic ability together which makes a good physician," Walter stated. 
Problem solving stressed 
An important change in the new MCAT favors students with the ability to apply knowledge to problem solving. The science problems section of the new test is a case in point. 
"Instead of bringing in advanced content, we introduced difficulty by requiring the student to apply ideas he learned in science," William Shanner, AIR technical advisor, stated recently in Human Behavior. 
According to the AAMC, course­work considered prerequisite for the new MCAT is limited to first year courses in biology, inorganic chemistry. physics, and organic chemistry. 
Harrison Gough, a psychologist at the Institute for Personality Assesment, University of Calif­ornia. commented in a recent issue of Human Behavior. "As a side effect. the old MCAT shaped 20 years of American medicine by selecting students . of a particular temperament.'' According to Gough the old MCAT eliminated many "doers and good workers" in favor of "brainy intellectual types" whose academic orientation led them into research and other specialized areas. 
The last quarter century has seen a dramatic drop in the number of new doctors entering family med­icine, a field which culled 85 to 95 percent of new physicians as recently as 1950. In 1970 less than 10 percent of the graduating doc­tors entered family medicine, a decrease which in no small way reflects the influence of the old MCAT, said Gough. 
Test restructured 
The new MCAT consists of six sections, 363 questions, and lasts six hours. 
Ntaddox suffers attack; c~ondition termed critical 
ATLANTA [AP] -Lester Maddox, the former Georgia governor who gained national attention as a segregationist restaurant owner, was listed in critical condition last night after suffering a heart attack, hospital officials said. 
Maddox suffered chest pains about 9 p.m. and was brought by ambulance to ·a Smyrna, GA. hospital north of Atlanta, a hospital spokeswoman said. 
Moddox's doctor was with him in the hospital's intensive care unit, she ~;aid. 
Maddox, 61, preceded President Carter as Georgia governor in the late 1960's. He also served as Cart·~r·s lieutenant governor from 1971 to 1974, and the two often feuded publicly. 
Maddox ran unsuccessfully for anotlter term as governor in 1974 and was the American Interna­tional party's presidential candi­date in 1976. 
Si:11ce then he has returned to the 
estaurant business, and he also has embarked recently on a night­club career in a two-man act with a young black man. ·· 
Maddox became a national figure in the early 1960's when he closed his Picknick Restaurant rather than let blacks eat there. At the time some of his supporters armed themselves with pick handles to help keep blacks out, and the pick handles became a Maddox trademark. 
He ran unsuccessfully for nume­rous local and statewide offices before becoming governor in 1967. 
Republican Howard "Bo" Calla­way, later defense secretary and President Ford's campaign mana­ger, got the most votes in the 1966 gubernatorial election, but neither he nor Maddox won a majority. That threw the election into the heavily Democratic Georgia Legis­lature, which chose Maddox. 
Maddox has usually called him­self a Democrat, although many consider him a political conserva­tive. 
The first three sections comprise the "scientific knowledge" portion of the test and include consecutive tests in biology, chemistry, and physics. Unlike the old test these three sections are scored sep­arately; this change allows college officials to guage an applicant's strengths and weaknesses. 100 minutes is allowed for completion of the first three sections. 
The fourth section is a group of "applications" or science problems which combine skills from the three disciplines of biology, chemistry, and physics. The emphasis in this section is on "thinking" and "insight" rather than rote memor­ization. The scientific problems section has a 70 minute limit and concludes the morning session. 
The afternoon session consists of two tests designed to measure verbal skills. They are the skills analysis, reading test and the skills analysis quantitative test. The reading test presents passages from various technical sources such as psychology, economics, soc­iology or medicine and then asks comprehensive questions about the material. 
The quantitative test consists of technical passages which include scientific data. This test requires the student to interpret graphs and other data and make decisions based on those interpretations. Both skills analysis tests contain 73 questions and allow 90 minutes. 
The revtston of the verbal analysis part of the MCAT created controversy among the various factions of the AAMC task force. ''Some people thought that some sort of measurement of 'human­ities' skills should be included," Walter revealed. "No one, how­ever, liked the old vocabulary test." 
The old MCAT's verbal analysis section consisted of a vocabulary [continued on page 2] 

Irish top Purdue 
Comeback!: The Fighting Irish overcame a 24-14 Purdue lead to defeat the Boilermakers 31-24 Saturday. See details on page 8. TOP: Ross Browner bears in on freshman quarterback Mark Herrmann. Herrmann threw 51 passes, completing 24 for 351 yards. BOTTOM: Coach Dan Devine is dwarfed by tight end Ken MacAfee, who caught nine passes for 114 yards. (photos by John Calcutt) 
Social space proposal developing 
by Peggy McGuire Special Projects Co-Chairman Wally Saad and Jim Seifert will propose the creation of new areas for social functions or at least the equalization of present social space at the Oct. 21 meeting of the Board of Trustees. Anne Thompson, Chariman of the committee on co-education, is also helping to formulate the proposal. ''Right 111ow, the social space on campus is not equally distributed,'' Seifert said. "Each person in Howard has approximately 1.7 sq. ft. of social space compared to 100 sq. ft. per Holy Cross resident. Everyone pays the same amount for room and board. It's not fair that somoe have less space to socialize just because of their location.' "One suggestion may be to move people out of Howard and convert their rooms into social areas," continued Seifert. "It all depends on how much money we can get." The committee will also propose the creation of new areas. "We need torenovateLaFortune or build more places like the Bulla Shed or the St. Mary's Clubhouse," Saad stated. Saad also cited drawbacks of the current student center. "Students just aren't using LaFortune to socialize," he stated. "At 9 o'clock on any week-night, there are more 
people visiting on the second floor of the library than in LaFortune. In fact, some of my friends have found it easier to study in LaFortune than the library." 
Saad and Seifert began collecting data for the proposal last spring after examining the situation in each dormitory. Thompson was added to the committee because of the effect of social space on co-education. 
Seifert said, "Co-education makes social space even more necessary. People need a place where they can go without worry­ing about parietals." 
Saad, Seifert, and Thompson will present their proposal to Student Government for approval before submitting it to the Board of Trustees. Their presentation will include slides taken from parties in several dormitories last weekend and photographs which emphasize the vast discrepancy in social space distribution. 
Saad and Seifert feel that the slides will stress the explicit need for more space. Saad said that the slides taken at the parties "will show that people are busting out of the social space that there is." 
Seifert is confident that tge board will respon!l positively to the proposal. "Ifour side is presented well, they can't be anything but in favor of it," he said. "I think the board really wants to help improve the social situation on campus, but they aren't here so they really don't understand what the . problems are." 
Saad and Seifert cited Zahm's social room as an ideal.'situation. 
"Zahm has a car­peted room with new furniture and a bar," Saad said. "The residents make all the rules and abide by them too. But it was all done by the students with no help from the university.'' 
Peggy Foran, a resident assis­tant in Lyons, commented, "The situation in Lyons really stinks. For over 240 residents, there is only a small study lounge and a kitchen which substitues for a 24-hour lounge. There is a definite need for more social space." 
One Farley Hall resident said, "While the situation in Farley isn't as bad as in some dorms, I can see a real need for more social space. A lot of the students here are stuck on campus without cars. They're willing to compensate by having their own parties instead of going to the bars, but there just isn't any place to go." 
"I don't think anyone likes those parties where everyone is crammed into a small room like a bunch of 
, sardines. It really would be nice if we had some place where we could have a decent party," she added ... 
--'-----'--'-------------------~-~-~~·~ 

Monday, September 26, 1977
the observer_ 
On Campus Today_~ 
3:30pm 
4 pm 
5:30pm 7 pm 7, 10 pm 
7:20pm 
7:30pm 8:15pm 
midnight 

MCA T changes scoring because of complaints 
[condnued from page 1) test and a general knowledge test, both of which had been drawing tire from areas of the medical profession for some time. The general knowledge test, which Walter likened to a TV trivia game show. had been especially crit­icized for its cultural discrimina­tion. The need for a non-scientific ''personality evaluation," how­ever, is well-acknowledged. "Ev­eryone agrees that the traits not tapped by cognitive tests are important--perhaps more critical than the candidate's knowledge of medicine," James Erdmann direct­or of the AAMC's research division stated in Human Behavior. The AAMC is currently develop­ing a non-cognitive evaluation which, according to Walter, will be designed to evaluate such charac­ter traits as social awareness, motivation, personality and fitness to enter the medical profession. The test is still in the planning and results may be years away Walter stated. 
Groups formed to discuss Rosary, Bible 
by Anne Bachle 
The Saint Mary's College Spiri­tual Commission will sponsor Rosary and Bible discussion groups this semester in order "to get students involved again in some of the Catholic traditions," stated Jeanie Ritter, spiritual commis­sioner. 
"I think students have fallen away from things like saying the Rosary and reading the Bible,'' explained Ritter. 
Wednesday night at 7 p.m. in Stapleton Lounge, the commission will sponsor tow speakers who will discuss the value of the Rosary. Ritter will lead discussions of Bible readings in the Holy Cross Lounge beginning at 9 p.m. on Thursday evening and alternate Thursdays thereafter. 
"I really think these can be helpful for any students who are interested in renewing some of the aspects of their Catholic faith,' commented Ritter. "I encourage anyone and everyone to attend." 


~··. 
.. · 
• .......·,. ........... -'lo,illo' -.'-, · ...... ... .............. ··.··.··~·-·.
'•.... ..... ' •• <.., ~. "'· ...... 
. ' . '' 

colloquium, "theological ethics: what is it? who does it? does it make any sense?," prof. stanley hauerwas, sponsored by theology department, lib. lounge. 
civilization film series, "romance and reality," kenneth clark, narrator, sponsored by bus, and econ, dept., carroll hall. 
field hockey, smc vs goshen college, home. 
meeting, alpha phi omega, base~ent, keenan hall. 
film, "the d1' of the jackal," sponsored by mecha, eng. aud., $1. 
duplicate bridge, ladies of nd, faculty and staff duplicate bridge, university club. 
headstart orientation, lewis hall parlor. 
concert, chicago symphony string quartet, spon­sored by music dept., lib. aud., $1. 
album hour, gold "chicago xi," wsnd 640 am. 
Scoring altered 
In response to complaints form 
medical school admissions officers, 
the new MCA T will be scored on a 
l-15 point scale rather than the 
200-800 SAT-like scale formerly 
used. The old scale was mislead­
ing, Walter stated, in that the 
difference between a score of 600 
and a score of 575 may appear 
significant but in fact, indicates 
only a difference of one correct 
answer. "Admission officers will 
know precisely what each score 
represents," Walter asserted. 
Students will have more time to 
complete the new test. The 
previous MCAT allowed three 
hours to answer 221 questions 
while the new test provides six 
hours for 363 questions. 
Approximately 180 Notre Dame 
students took the new MCAT when 
it was administered for the first 
time last April and 200 more will 
take it when it is given again Oct. 1, 
according to Dr. Daniel Burr, Notre 
Dame preprofessional advisor. 
Notre Dame senior Jim O'Neill, who took the test in April, stated, "The test was quite difficult, exhaustive. It tested not only knowledge but the ability to cope.'' 
Other ND seniors who took the test as underclassmen found it challenging. Maryanne Pizza stated, "It was exhaustive but I had enough time. Everything, even the readings, related to medicine." 
Senior Debbie Darnley feels that, despite AAMC claims to the contrary, the test required more than just the knowledge taught in introductory courses. "It was hard and too long. You definitely needed more than introductory courses," she stated. 
All applications for acceptance to next year's entering med school class must include results of the new MCAT. 
~~ SEE PRO BASKETBJ!~LL c ~~ -..<T..f>,f> 
CLEVELAND CAVALIERS· 
vs 
BUFFALO BRAVES 
(Pre·Season Game) 
FRI. SEPT. 30, 8:30 pm NOTRE DAME A.C.C. 

Tickets $4 · $5 · $E; Sale starts Monday Sept. 5 
A.C.C. Gate 10 Box Offiice 

... 

.....-. .·• {.~~···-."'.>·: ·,_' \.,·"'~····~. · 

'Exj~raordinary Ministers' program to iJnclude formation sessions 
by 'Valerie Stefani 
The formation of the Extraordi­nary Ministers of the Eucharist program came about because of a pastoral need according to Sr. Jane Pitz, assistant director of Campus Ministry. Introduced at Notre Dame four years ago, the program ritualizes the sense of people giving themselves to others by enabling parish members to admi­nister the Eucharist. 
Campus Ministry has revised the program this year with the help of John Melloh of the Center for Pastoral Liturgy, an organization which researches and formulates various liturgical programs throughout lthe United States. 
The two-fold program consists of two and one-half hour formation sessions during which personal and shared reflection is encouraged and a commissioning of ministers 
The Observer Is publlslled Mon­dey t11roug~1 Frldey except dur1nt exem end ncellon periods. Tile Observer Is published by tile students of Notre Deme end Selnt Mery's CoUege. Subscriptions mey be pun:hesed for no per yeer (S 1o per semester) from The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Deme, lnd,lene 4655,. Second dell poste11e pelcl, Notre Deme, lndlene, 4UU. . The Obacrrver Is e member of tile Auocleted Press. All repro­duction r11~1t1 ere reserved. 
%The~ Observer 
Night Editor:  Joseph  Bauer  
(martyr in residence)  
Asst.  Ni1~ht  Editor:  Frank  

Kebe (his elbows are not sensitive) 'Layout Staff: Mike Cullotta and the Elbow Queen (both in absPntia) Editorial Layout: Kevin Sweeney (speed king) Sports Layout: Paul Steven­son Typists: Leigh Tunaken, Ann 
Giere, Mark Rust E.M.T.: Mardi Nevin (of the flying fingers) Day Editor: Mike Lewis (who is the mystery man?) Copy Reader: Phil Cackley (forfeited his salary) Ad Layout: Big Klurn Djverg­nPn (he's for real) 


Ro~cco's 
BltRBERS 
ha1irstylists 


531 N. Michigan 233-4957 
during the service, in which the parish is informed of the activities of this lay ministry. 
William McManus, bishop of the Ft. Wayne-South Bend diocese and the Liturgical Commission approved the set-up of formation sessions at Notre Dame this sum­mer. After members are selected, the Jist of names is sent to the Commission for approval. By keeping in contact with the Com­mission, Notre Dame is connected to the diocese, according to Pitz. 
There are approximately 150 members in the ministry who participate in services held at Sacred Heart Church and in the halls. The ministry is not ordained and is comprised of faculty, staff, students and South Bend parish members. 

•'The people chosen are regular attendents and not 'extraordi­nary'," said Pitz. 
Campus Ministry is considering 

EVERY MONDAY NIGHT NFL SPECIAL! 
at 

LOUIE'S 






40¢ BEERS 
starting at kickoff time Haue a Pizza tooll 
they're grrreat! ~~~~ 
PREPARE FOR: 
MCAT •DAT •LSAT •OMIT 
ORE •OCAT •VAT· SAT liMB I, II, Ill·ECFMO·FLEX·IQE
. 

NAT'L DENTAL BOARDS • NURSING BOARDS Flexible Programs & Hours 
tChere IS a differeruet!t 
For Information Please Call: 
Collect West Lafayette 


l.~!. 
463-7026 TEST PREPARATION 
SPECIALISTS SINCE 1938 

Serving Bloomington, Indianapolis, South Bend For Locations in other cities 
Outside N.Y. State Only CAl TOLL FREE: 800-223-1782 Centers In MaJor US Cities Tore"· , ~ Jerto Rico and Lugano, Switzerland 
LSAT AT, and GRE 
_..,,:,ES NOW FORMING 
A Week in the Sun! 
CHR~STMAS BREAK 
"Paradise In the Caribbean" 
JAMAICA from $279.00 
Jan. 3 to Jan. 10 
"A Secret PPrradlse" 
'EI~ahitlof S339.oo 
Dec. 17 to Dec. 24 Dec. 31 to Jan. 07 Jan. 07 to Jan. 14 
ALL DEPARTURES FROM CHICAGO PRICES PER PERSON -DOUBLE OCCUPANCY $100.00 DEPOSIT SIGN UP EARLY-SPACE LIMITED! 
GROUP TRAVEL ASSOCIATES, INC. 202 Division St., Elgin, IL 60120 Phone: (312) 697-8855 
'. .. .. .......-.. ... ..' .' .~ •. .... :r.> . .; . .-~.'·,· .. 
'·' 

holding formation sessions next spring, in addition to organizing a continuing education program for current members of the ministry. 
Oktoberfest tix on sale today 

Oktoberfest T-shirts and tickets go on sale today in all the dining halls and will continue throughout this week. The traditional T-shirts, sporting the Bavarian colors of light blue and white, cost $3 and are available in several sizes. 
Raffle tickets for a Pioneer stereo can be purchased for 50 cents. also available are tickets at $1 each for the Thursday night performance of Gil Eagles, psychic and hypnotist, who will be making his first appearance on campus at 8 p.m. in the St. Mary's Angela Athletic Facility. 
. . :.'->:··'. .•' ...-.:.:_. .· ..',.,.'_''··>:~·:~;:;<;.;.;·_::.'i~;~:;<.<:<:.-:~?:;::':·;:~:;.:~:.:.~,,::..::. :. :·:~:~;••::·-;·.:;:~,. ­
• ' • ·~.. 1 .,·· <I ... / . ' ...-.. • ~; •' e ~' • 

Monday, September 26, 197 the observer 




ln!;urance won't cover Morrissey fire damage 
by Kevin M. Walsh St,nlor Staff Reporter 
Damages estimated as high as $40,000 from the recent Morrissey Hall fire will not be covered by the University's insurance policy, according to Bro. Kieran Ryan, asst. vice president for Business Affairs. 
The fire, which forced 250 Mor­rissey residents to evacuate in the early morning hours of Sept. 10, gutted one room and caused smoke and water damage in several others. 
Charles S. Reddy, University insurance officer, confirmed the fact that the school's insurance policy will not cover the damage. "The University property insur­ance covers all buildings on cam­pus and their contents, but is subject to a deductable amount. Since the damages are within the deductable amount the University must assume all of the losses," said Reddy. 
He declined to state the amount of the--'University's deductable rate is sure to increase in the next level, but did say "it is greatly in renewal period." excess of the $40,000 anticipated The University cannot be held loss." responsible for the personal items 
According to Reddy, the Univer­of each student, though, unless it is sity must have a deductable policy proven that Notre Dame was if it is to afford the necessary negligent in some respect, said property insurance coverage. Reddy. 
Thomas Mason, vice president "The University is negligent for Business Affairs, expressed only if it has no rules for fire fear that Notre Dame's policy regulations," said Reddy. "But, would be even higher next year. since such rules are published in du "Insurance :rates are based on Lac, Notre Dame can never be experience", said Mason "and proved to have been negligent." with such a daim as this fire, our In respect to room regulations, 
Student awareness stressed 


SMC judicial emphasis changing 
by Sue Dallmann 
The judicial system at Saint Mary's College is changing its emphasis this year to a positive one, by making students more aware of their rights and responsi­bilities, according to Diane Smits, 
Grad awarded Marshall grant 
A Marshall Scholarship has been awarded to Joseph M. Hughes, '77, to study for a MSc degree in Biomechanical Engineering at St. Cathari.ne's College, Oxford. 
Before leaving for London, Hughe:> and the other 1977 Mar­shall S~holars will attend a recep­tion goven by the British ambas­sador, Peter Jay, at the British Embassy in Washington tomorrow. 
The Marshall Scholarships Pro­gram was established under the Marshall Aid Commemorative Acts of 1%3 and 1959 as practical expression of the British people's appreciation of the gene1·ous aid given by the United States under the Marshall Plan. 
The thirty scholarships, awarded annuaUy, are normally of two year's duration and their purpose is to enable graduates of American universities and colleges to study for degrees in Britain. 
Oct. 22, 1977 is the deadline for 
applications for the 1978 competi­
tion. The scholarships are open 
only to United States citizens, who 
will be under 26 by Oct. 1, 1978, 
and who are entering their last year 
to a degree-granting college. 
Candidates who have received at 
least 1:wo years college education in 
or whose permanent home address 
is in: Illinois, Iowa, Kansas, 
Michigan, Nebraska, North 
Dako':a, South Dakota, or Missouri 
may obtain further information 
from the British Consulate, 33 
North Dearborn St., Chicago, IL 
60602. 

Power failure knocks out laundry service 
by Laura Larimore 
Recent delays in the laundry 
service are~ a reslut of a massive 
pow{:r failure last Wednesday, 
according to Adolph Keglovits, 
director. Repairs were not com­
pleted until late Wednesday night. 
The problem stemmed from the 
difficulty of procuring the now 
obsdetc parts to fix the equipment. 
to prevent such an accident in the 
future, the laundry has purchased a 
second unit, facilitating a switch­
over if the main unit fails. 
The laundry is presently two 
days. behind schedule and is work­
ing overtime and on Saturdays in a 
effo11 to catch up. Keglovits said 
students should be patient. Service 
should return to normal in the near 
future. He added that there has chairman of the Student Relations Boarc!.. 
Smits noted that certain acade­mic, social, personal, and due process rights belong to the stu­dents, as indicated in the Student Handbook and the Student Proce­dural Manual. In order to help familiarize students with their rights and responsibilities, a forum, open to the entire campus, will be held sometime near October break. 
"Rather than restricting a stu­dent to campus for breaking parie­tals, we miglltt send her to a value clarifications clinic. This forces the student to reconsider the conse­quences of her act and puts her back into the community,'' stated Smits. 
"There should also be more consistency in the judicial system," stressed Smits. "Everyone com­mitting the same offense should be treated . " Smits plans to 





PLACEMENT BUREAU 
Main Bulldlnc 
INTERVIEWS SCHEDULED FOR WEEK OF OCTOBER 3 
Interviews are for seniors and graduate students. Sign~up schedules are in Room 213, Main Building. Interview times must be signed for in person. The sign-up period at the Placement Bureau will be from 1:00 to 4:30 P.M., Monday through Thursday, September 26-29. In all subsequent weeks, the sign-up period will be 8:00 A.M. to 5:00 P.M. 
OCT 3 Crowe , Chizek and Company Mon. B in Acct. MBA with Acct/Business Law background 
or concentration. 
Electronic Data Corporation 
BM in all disciplines. 
Indiana University, Grad. School of Business 
B in all disciplines. Prudential Insurance Company B in AL and BA. 
OCT 3 4 Coopers & Lybrand Mon Tues B in Acct. MBA with Acct bkgn1d 
M.I.T. Lincoln Laboratory MS, Ph.D. in EE and Physics 
OCT 4 John Hancock Mutual Life Ins Co 
Tues. BM in all disciplines. State of Indiana BM in all disciplines. Lucky Steer Restaurants, Inc All BBA. National Steel Corporation B in ME, EE, Met and Mgt. 
OCT 4/5 Dow Chemical U.S.A. 
Tu/Wed BM in ChE and ME. BM in Chern. General Pynamics Corporation BMD in .AE, ME, EE, MEIO, EG SCI. 
or concentration. 
(Change from 

Manual: No CE, MENO or Comp Sci.) OCT 5 Morse Chain Division of Borg-Warner Corporation 
Wed B in ME, MEIO, CE, EE. Northern Illinois Gas Company B in all Engr. disciplines. Sundstrand Corporation BM in ME and EE. 
OCT 6 u.s. General Accounting Office Thurs All BBA, MBA with Business bkgrnd. semester hours of Acct requirEod. 
OCT 6/7 Clairol Inc. Thur/Fri B in AL and BA. 
General Electric Company At least 6 
B in AE, MEt«>. BM in ME, MEIO, EE, ChE~ Met. (GEappl. form requested in addition to Profile). Standard Oil Co. of California &Chevron Cos. BMD in ChE and ME. 
OCT 7 The Equitable Life of New Yor'~ Fr'i B in AL and BA. MBA. 
LAW SCHOOLS: All interested students are requested to sign-up at the Pre-Law Society Bulletin Boards in O'Shaughnessy Hall. OCT 5 -Marquette University 
B in all disciplines. 
OCT 7 -Univer.dty of Iowa B in all 111se1plines. 
.·­

,·" Employer l.l\formatio~.•. Alternativt1s. 
anothet: bil•'>rll•'·"'-·1">-"~"P-"~~"""''.,..·., ·-~~~·-+ml~au~ .:.Fedte:~~~~~~lt;s:
·· ........,..1\oom ·n!~ 'XcridttS:ili1atton ~ 
acomplish that objective by inform­ing hall directors which offenses require appearance before the hall judicial board and which can be settled individually. 
Smits also said that she would be re-evaluating the judicial system and investigating any flaws. "The only serious flaw that exists now is the fact that the aggrieved party can't appeal its case," observed Smits. She also plans to amend any inconsistencies in the student man­ual. 
This year anyone involved in the judicial system will go through a four hour training process consist­ing of a series of workshops. The workshops cover the subjects of decision making, values clarifica­tion, moral decision making, and technicalities of the judicial system. "By taking part in workshops, members of the judicial system will fully understand their purpose when they send a student to them," stated Smits. 
Smits noted that relatively few cases have been sent before the various ju~icial boards. "That is · 
good indication that the students are mature and live up to their responsibilities," she added. 

A Comedy of Errors 
Shakespeare's merry masquerade. Odober7, 8, 13, 14,15
SMC 
at8:00 p.m. All seats $2.50 O'Laughlin ($2 Std-Fac-Staff) Phone: 284-4176 

THEATRE 
Auditorium 

SEASON TICKETS STILL AVAILABLE.................... 
4 PLAYS $9 ($7 Std-Fac-Staff) Includes: COMEDY OF ERRORS, CAUCASIAN CHALK CIRCLE, TOUCH OF A POET, and THE MIKADO 
~----cLUBS-AND____: 

l ORGANIZATIONS 
IApplications for considerations in I 
. t this year's Student GovernmentIBudget can be picked up now in  ' l  
t tl t  the Treasurer's Oifice Second floor La Fortune Student Center  tI II  
t  

: Deadline for completio~:A ~:"' ·ll:J:.....{·~ ~"~--t·s· ':Wed·· Sa·pt-28···~·'····--·-~...........
,~ ' ..... '-~-~.... ..• .• • • ., ·~J>o<,...,$>•...:-·•oiiJit·..-; 
. --... / ~ -.~ ... ~ ........ l: . ,;·:·"!! -... !:~ ... --. ' ....... . 
duLac does state, ''Lofts or parti­tions are not to be built in the rooms. This is against fire regula­tions and general safety rules.' 
Although the room in Morrissey did contain a plywood partition to separate the sleeping and social areas, Dean of Students James Roemer said that no disciplinary action or suit will be brought against the room's residents. 
"If a person's carelessness or negligence could be clearly shown as the cause of property loss, then that person should be responsible for his actions,' noted Roemer. 
But, he said, since the fire seems to have been caused by an electri­cal fire in a wall socket, the students will not be held respon­sible. 
Although the University's policy does not cover personal losses, Reddy states that most students should have no problem in getting insured under their parent's poli­cies. 
In most home policies, the coverage for any personal loss, such as those in the Morrissey fire, is usually ten percent of the parent's household insurance policy. Reddy said, "All a student must do is make a complete, descriptive list of the losses and send it to his or her parent's insurance officer to get a refund."~ 
NDSMC 
THEATRE 
need 


USHERS 
For all shows-see shows free. sign up now for entire season. call 284-4141 

Pay Up or Stay Home 
It is always unfortunate when the actions of a few irresponsible people ruin oppor­tunities for the majority. 
However, the current controversy over the ND-SMC shuttle bus was caused by a very sizable minority. So many students last year "forgot" to pay the 15-cent fare that the shuttle operated at a $21,000 loss. 
No company is in business to lose money, including the South Bend Public Transportation Corporation (Transpo). So, in order to recover their losses, they felt it necessary to raise St. Mary's and Notre Dame's fees 24 percent. 
Although the two institutions jointly pay approximately $50,000 a year for the bus to run during class hours, extra service in the evenings and on weekends adds another $25,000 to $40,000 to the bill. This amount should be collected in student fares. Neither St. Mary's nor Notre Dame feels it is their responsibility to foot the bill for transportation after class hours. They provide the service, but the students must care enough to support it. 
A 90-day trial pe1iod is now in effect until Nov. 26, at which time a solution must be reached. H bus riders continue to pay the correct fare, as most have been doing this year, the shuttle will be continued. 
On the other hand, if the "irresponsi­bles" are allowed to slip back into their former bad habits, this bus which is so vital to ND-SMC relations will see its last nights and weekends on campus. Students will be forced to walk the long, dark road bet ween campuses, increasing the risk of rapes and attacks. During the winter, snow drifts and sub-zero temperatures will keep the two schools separate, damaging their long history of friendship. 
So, pay your 15 cents when you climb on the bus. Don't let the shuttle drive off when the sun sets ea·ch Friday afternoon, not to return until Monday morning! 
~~P.O. Box Q~~ 
Shuttle 
•
warn1ng 
Dear Editor: 
I was disturbed by the implica­
tions of the recent Observer article, "One raped, two accosted" (Sept. 7). The reported attacks made me think twice about walking alone at night, expecially along the road between Notre Dame and St. Mary's. Dean Roemer has warned women to "get transportation by bus or car between the two colleges.'' This is sound advice, but is may be difficult to carry out. Many students don't have access to a car, and the evening Shuttly is operating on a 90-day probation because too many of its riders· aren't paying the IS-cent fare. , What happens if the bus stops 
running? 
We could probably find alterna­
tives for the Shuttle. The colleges 
could have an illuminated under­
ground tunnel dug from the Memo­
rial Library to Holy Cross Circle. 
However, this project would be 
expensive, and construction would 
take time and leave students 
stranded on either side of Route 31 
until its completion. The adminis­
tration could order a barbed-wire 
fence to shield campus women 
from would-be rapists, but the 
structure would spoil the aesthetic 
beauty of the area. Students who 
found the intercollege hike un­
avoidable could run personals such 
as: "Urgently need two 
companions to walk from Lewis to 
Madaleva, MWF 8 pm. References 
required. Will share services of my 
German shepherd." 
Obviously, the Shuttle is a more 
feasible way of travelling than the 
previous suggestions. However, its 
services will continue only if riders 
assume a little responsibility and 
pay their fares. Wise up, ND-SMCI 
Fifteen cents is hardly a high price 
for safety. 
Marian Ulicny 
A case of murder 
Dear Editor: 
Several days ago, I was slowly walking between the grotto and the lake in the early evening, shortly after sundown. 1 heard some of the ducks squaking rather loudly, and witnessed several young men stoning a duck. I tried to break it up, but too late. The duck was dead. You might say, who the hell cares about a duck? I do. I think it illustrates the immaturity of any Notre Dame student who would think so little of the Iit'e of such a beautiful and defenseless animal as a duck, especially when our little 
feathered friends give so much pleaS1Ire to students and visitors alike as they glide about the lakes . 
As I looked at the dead duck, I wanted to cry for ugly human beings who have no regard for life at all. If I was in a position of authority at this University, I would have immediately expelled such students from this community. I know that there are bigger issues of justice, and love for our fellow human beings to be concerned with, but let's start with the little things ... if we're faithful in those, then maybe ... 
Rev. Len Kuberski,,.,. 
St. Ted questioned 
Dear Editor: I am writing this public letter of thanks fot the remarkable lesson in justice with which we all have been graced. I must confess that were it not for the occasionally consistent words and deeds of our own Father Hesburgh I might still be in a quandary as to what is justice. However, thanks to Saint Ted, this question is no longer an important one. He has made it clear that might makes right and that justice Is expediency. Praise be to Hesburehl In addition to making me realize what justice is, Saint Ted has now made it imperative that I drop one of my philosophy courses. In John Rawls' A Theory of Justice, used by me "Seminar on Justice" class, Rawls contends that for a society to be formally just it must apply its principles impartially and consis­tently to all its members. In the opinion of Rawls, "The inevitable vagueness of laws in general and the wide scope allowed for their interpretation encourages an arbi­trariness in reaching decisions which only an allegiance to justice can allay.... The desire to follow rules impartially and consistently, to treat similar cases similarly, and to accept the consequences of the application of public norms is intimately connected with the desire, or at least the willingness, to recognize the rights and liberties of others and to share fairly in the benefits and burdens of social cooperation. The one desire tends to be associated with the other." How could Rawls make such an egregious error? This interpreta­tion of justice is so inconsistent with the recent actions of St. Ted in the AI Hunter case that it would surely leave him grim and white­faced. 
If one were to accept Rawls' theory of justice he would perforce conclude that either Notre Dame is not a Christian institution, for an instit~tioa that is Christian is at least JUSt, or else that impartiality. 
and consistency have nothing to do with justice. Since Saint Ted does believe Notre Dame to be a Christian institution, then it must be that he does not believe in justice as fairness. Who could argue with a saint? 
Thomas Merrigan 
Food waste 
Dear Editor: It is obvious that the intent of my letter entitled "Food Waste All Year Long" completely escaped Maureen McShan. In careless fashion, Miss McShan seemed to accuse me of condoning food wars! This I must entirely deny. My point was that daily food waste shoulu be brought to the attention of students with a similar fervor and intensity to that of bi-annual :food fights. It should be obvious that no form of punishment can control the vehemence and subsequent waste of a rowdy few. However, an ounce of daily care can save tons of daily waste. 
Richard J. Gregoire 

*The Observer 
.m indt>pendl'nt studl.'nt newsp.tpt>r St>rving notrt> ddme dnd st. m.try'-, 
The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College It does not necessarily reflect the policies of either mstitution The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions and lettt:>rs are the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and letters are encouraged to promote the free expression of varying opinions on campus. 
EDITORIAl BOARD 
Mart1 Hogan Editor-in-Chiet Martha f·anning Managing Editor Bob Bnnk Asst Managing Ed Kt~thy Mills Executive Editor MaurePn flynn Editorial 1-ditor Brlrb 13rt•itPn~!Pm Exec News Ed1tor JPan PowiPv St Mary'-, Editor KatiP Kervm1 News Editor Barb Langhenry News Ed1tor Paul Stt:>ven'>on Sports Editor Pat Cole Special Prowcts Ed lJav1d 0' KPt>fe Features E:d1tor 
Monday, Sertember 26, 1977 
DOONESBURY 

HARR/5, I'M CAP'N, I JUST !NNO MOOO WANT A CHANCE FOR AN(J{Htf< TO (J)ICKLY R£.­ON& OF YOUR. PL.Y 70 YOUR 015RJJP770N5! PANAM4 CANAL-
by Garry Trudeau 
NOIJJ, 7V BeGIN 
WITH, CI/P'N, THE FIRST TREATY IA/ASN'T HOLY COMJI 
EVEN SIGN£0 BY I OION'T • A PANAMANIAN.. KNOW 
-J \-tf'A... THAT/ 
t1;J !:.-~~){_~ \
_j '· r (I~
1 

. ,·~-'"-~{i)\1 c.f~~­
.f •. .· ·.. r:Le;
'·. --llYJ.·:~·~\ 
~·--····•-~'J@i.K l\ %··_ ·-----~ 
.kJf·~~--.;;;.~> .: .. .__.,-} """ ~( ·~ '~ " 


Oplrl10n !!!!!!!!!!!~~~~~~~~~~~~!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
The Unspoiled Truth 
patrick e. mangan 
I am writing this article in response to the case that David Cwik, in his article, "The Failure of Notre Dame," brought against the teaching principles of this univer­sity, and in response to his opposi­tion which was expressed in Paul 
Barrickmaum's  article,  "Catholic  
Faith  Dusty"  and  in  Louis  P.  
Pojman's  article  "Cwik  

Confused.'' 
Quite frankly, it is my optmon that not enough credit has been given to Mr. Cwik. I am afraid that the followi111g statement would also receive tht: same opposition. "As ye have therefore received Christ Jesus, the Lord, so walk ye in Him: rooted and built up in Him and established in the faith, as ye have been taught, abounding therein with thanksgiving. Beware lest any man spoil you through philosophy and vain d•eceit, after the tradition of men, after the rudiments of the world, and not after Christ." Yet this is the word of God revealed by the Holy Spirit to the apostle Paul, r.nd it is quite clear that Paul, acting on this truth, appropriated a great amount of power in his life through his steadfast trust in God. 
Paul's life did not lack direction and purpose. I can't help but see the similarities between Cwik's priJlcipal objections to the manner 
. of teaching here at Notre Dame, 
and Paul's warning to all Chris­tians. It is also interesting to note that Paul was perhaps the most learned apostle and studied under the highly admired teacher Gamaliel. Yet Paul never gave any credit to this teacher or to any of his teachings for the joy, peace, and direction in Paul's life. Paul accredited any success he attained to the simple truth of Christ. The most important thing in the world for Paul was to know Christ. The knowledge he had gained from Gamaliel was barren and dry without Christ. But in Christ he was made alive; he was fulfilled. Saul of Tarsus, the legalistic, hateful persecutor, became Paul the apostle ofi<We. His understand­ing of the truth was illuminated by an inner awakening through Christ. Once, he had looked with contempt 
upon ordinary people, but he became a loving and outgoing individual. He found a new kind of understanding through faith which meant sharing in the power and truth and love of Jesus. 
Paul, in writing to the Corinthi­ans, also saw fit to warn them concerning the wisdom of men. He, through the inspiration of the Holy Spirit wrote: "For it is written 'I (God) will destroy the wisdom of the wise and will bring to nothing the understanding of the prudent.' 

Where is the wise man? Where is the scribe? Where is the disputer of this world? Hath not God made foolish the wisdom of this world. For after that in the wisdom of God the world by knew not God, it pleased God by the foolishness of preaching to save them that believe...But God hath chosen the foolish things of the world to confound the wise..." (I Cor. 1:19-21, 27). For these reasons, I must agree with David Cwik that we cannot teach the philosophies of self-inflated men as truth, nor can we examine them within a "neutral framework." Jesus said that the Father would send the Holy Spirit to teach us all things (John 14:26), and that the Holy Spirit will guide us into all truth (John 16:13). 
Therefore, I am a part of the 
minority that must support Mr. 
Cwik's claims, but more important­
ly, I am a part of the minority that 
supports the Bible, which is the 
living Word of God. 
In any case, if we meet by way of this article or in any other way and you forget me, you have lost nothing. But if you meet Jesus Christ and forget Him, you have lost everything. For Jesus said, "I am the Way, the Truth, and the Life: no man cometh unto the . Father but by Me" [John 14:6]. 


Mondal'J September 26, 1977 the observer 
5 

Students 'manage' compu~er simulated banks 
by Lou Severino semester entitled Commercial skills learned in the previous three The simulation was developed banking simulation game to be 
Banking (Finance 490) directed by years by confronting the students over a two-year period by a task developed, it is distinctly a step up 
Senior business administration Dr. Bernard J. Kilbride of the with problems faced by bankers in force assembled by the ABA and from previous educational efforts. student:; at Notre Dame are the Department of Finance and Busi-the business world. the FDIC. According to Kilbride Dr. Kilbride expressed hope that as first in the nation to "manage" five ness Economics. Dr. Kilbride calls BankSim a these two organizations spent over many as 75 students could be new banks under a computet The purpose of the program is to "very detailed program--a model of $250,000 developing this program. accomodated in this course in the 
simulation program developed by expose students to current con-the banking world containing many the American Bankers Association cepts of bank management by variables." (ABA) and the Federal Deposit mixing theory with practical appli-The students are broken down Insurance Corporation (FDIC). cation. into management teams of five. 
The program, named BankSim, It has a secondary benefit of Each team must determine its own 
is part cf a course being taught this reinforcing the knowledge and division of labor, structure its organization, and set its own goals and policy guidelines. The teams 
perform the roles of upper manage­ment personnel by making deci­sions, planning, and forecasting their bank's progress. 
StJring quartet to play 
in Library Auditorium 
A major concern of the students The Chicago Symphony String Mystical Songs'' by Ralph Vaughn' will be regulations and regulatory Quartet will present its ninth Williams. Maloney will join the as the teams particiapate
reports, annual :oncert at 8:15 p.m. tonight quartet for the last selection, set to in as many as 120 different in the Library Auditorium. The poetry by Elizabethan poet George decisions on banking operations. 
concert is part of the Music Herbert. As decisions are made, they are Department Series and will feature Tickets for the concert, priced at fed into a computer. Subsequent Fr. Patrick Maloney as tenor $ i. may be purchased at the door. printouts--showing the 
compara­soloist. tive standing of the five financial 
Members of the quartet, now in institutions--will reflect the conse­residence at DePaul University, are 'Head Start' quences of the actual decisions that renowned figures on the Chicago were made by each management musical scene and have accumu­to organize team, including their interaction lated rr ore than 100 years experi­with a predetermined economy. ence w.th the Chicago Symphony. Simulated stockholder meeting
tomorrow 
Each a ;oloist. teacher or conductor will also be held, during which in his own right, they include Victor An organizational meeting will shareholders of each bank will cast Aitay, :'irst violin and concertmas­be held tomorrow night at 7:30 a critical eye on operations and the ter of the Chicago Symphony; p.m. in the Lewis Hall parlor for all potential for profit or loss reported Edgar Muenzer, second violin; those interested in working with Milton Preves, principal viola in Head Start. Those who previously Chicago, and Frank Miller, princi­signed up at Student Activities pal cello in Chicago. Night should attend. Anyone who 
Their program tonight will in­has not yet applied is welcome to clude Mendelssohn's "Quartet No. come. Students with questions 3 in D Major." Dvorak's "Quartet should contact Karen at 2-7233 or in F Major. Op. 96"' and "Five Rose at 4-4715. 
:-~rHELfBRARY:-l : ~~oos» : t "~ . t :~lONDAY & TUESDAY: : NIGFff : 
t 9 -JJPM t tP~ITCHER_S or 1 & 7's !
t.i. Rum & Cokes , t -d. Gin & Tonics t t c..~Y PINA_COLADAS! t t ·~Vc.~ strawberry daquiris: 
: ) only 2.00 t 
~..-·~~~~~~~..-.~..-..~~~~~~ 
.AIR FORCE ROTC 
The facts of the matter. 
With something as important as your future being discussed, it's very urgent that you get and understand all the facts. Air Force ROTC can be an important part of your future, and we'd like to take this opportunity to outline some of the main facts of that matter and invite you to look further Into the subject. 
The U.S. Air Force needs highly qualified dedicated officers. Both men and women, and we need people in all kinds of educational disciplines. Air Force ROTC offers 4-year, 3-year and 2-year scholarships with $100 monthly tax-free allowance, and contrary to what some people think, there is no military obligation during the first two years of the Air Force ROTC. 
Upon college graduation you'll receive a commission in the 
U.S. Air Force and the opportunity to compete for a challeng­ing job with advanced educational opportunities. 
Let's get together and discuss ·Air Force ROTC further. We'll give you all the facts and clear up the fictions. It could be one of the most important talks you've ever had with anyone. 
Contact: CAPTAIN DAN DAVIS NOTRE DAME, Bldg 5 Tel:283-6634 AirForce ROTC 
Although BankSim is not the first future. 
MOLSON PARTYI 
tap Canada's finest resource 
TUESDAY NIGHT 7.:00. 3:00 
decorate your dorm giveaway FREE POSTERS , BANNERS &PLAQUES 
6 
the ObS8[V8[ Monday, September 26, 1977 
For students, faculty 
St. Mary's CDC sponsoring 'Senior Week' 
by Honey McHugh 
The Saint Mary's Career Deve­lopment Center (CDC) is currently s-ponsoring "Senior Week at the CDC" in order to acquaint students and faculty with the programs and services that will be available to them this year. 
The schedule of events began last Wednesday night with an introductory senior class meeting held in Stapleton Lounge. The purpose of the meeting was to present an overall view of the "CDC, answer any initial questions and discuss the upcoming events of "Senior Week". 
Administration, faculty and stu­dents are invited today to an Open House from 9:00 to 4:00 in the CDC. All are welcome to attend, but the primary focus will be on Senior registration and sign-up procedures. 
At this time, workshop schedules will be posted and recruiting procedures for future job inter­views will be explained. Students will be given a tour of the Center in l order to become familiar with its many facillities, 
CDC staff members will be on hand all day today to answer any questions concerning interviews, credentials and the job bank. They will distribute a new brochure covering numerous aspects of the Center as well as The CoUege Placement Annual, which contains names and addresses of various companies for reference to those interviewing on campus. Sign-up shets for job interviews in the near future will be circulated. 
"We want the students to know where the Center is and to feel welcome to come here for advice, counseling and career informa­tion," states CDC Director, Karen O'Neil. "The staff here is concern­ed about their future and wants to help." 
O'Neil further stresses the inte­rest the Center has in the undeci­ded students, as well as the directed ones. She feels that by meeting the career counselors and the workshop leaders, students will 

notre dame student union & sunshine promotions 
presents 

introducin~~ _ 
The Norton Buffa}<) Stampede 
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 21 
8:00Pivl Notre Dame ACC 
Tickets: $8.00, $7.00 All Seats Res~erved on sale now at the ACC box office & the student union box_pffice 
realize that there are professionals available who care about theri futures. 
The first Interview Skills Work­shop will be held today from 4 p.m. to 6 p.m. in the CDC. followed by two career seminars. The first, entitled "How to Prepare for and Enter the Liberal Arts Job Mar­ket'', will be held tomorrow from 4:30p.m. to 5:30p.m. in Stapleton Lounge. All seniors are invited and encouraged to attend. 
Interview 
sign-ups 
to begin today 
The sign-up period for the first week of Placement Bureau Job lnverviews is from 1 to 4:30 p.m. today through Thursday. Inter­views are open to seniors and graduate students in the Decem­ber, May and August classes. In all subsequent weeks, the sign-up period will be 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. 
Any students intending to have interviews must have a completed profile (registration) form on file at the Placement Bureau. Registra­tion, interview sign-up sheets and employer literature are in R. 213 of the Main Building. 
The Placement Bureau is open from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m., Monday through Friday. Students should consult the Placement Bureau Manual for additional information regarding interview and Placement Bureau services and procedures. Students must sign up for inter­views personally. 
NEW 
IN SOUTH BEND 
COSIMO'S HAIR DESIGNS 
FOR MEN & WOMEN 
COSIMO, ROSE & SUE ARE YOUR HAIR DESIGNERS 
for APPT. call 277-1875 Mon-Sat 8 to 6 
Next to the Distiller~ 
l. 
Bar-B-Que & 
Beer 
~~~ 

Restaurant and LDunge  \S'  
Featurin~J  -the  finest  

in hickory smoked barbeque -cooked o'ver an open pit with special sauce 
Thursday is 
-' 

4-3 a.m.. · dai1y • uosed Sun. and ••.···-~-.." 
. •; '• 
~ ..... ' . 

I 
Monday, September 26, 1977 
the observer 
Catlen~ar Office to handle all event scheduling 
by Jack Pizzolato 
S4mfor Staff Reporter 
A plan to channel the scheduling of all student events through the Student Union (SU) Calendar Office will go into effect immedi­ately, according to SU Calendar Office Director Mary Ann Moore. 
The proposal, which will coordi­nate the efforts of the Student Union with the University's official calendar office located in the Center for Continuing Education (CCE), was discussed and agreed to Friday by representatives of the two groups. 
_Present at the meeting were Moore, Gertrude Kessel, calendar coordinator for the CCE, Bro. John Benesh, director of Student Activi­ties, John Reid, assistant director of Student Activities and SU Direc­tor Tom Gryp. 
''The meeting was held to clarify each office's duties," Moore said, "and to establish a precedence regarding student events." 
At present, the CCE Calendar Office schedules all university events. Student organizations and hall representatives who want to reserve an area for their activities must first receive approval from one of several individuals in charge of buildings on campus. 
The SU Calendar Office was set-up last semester to handle the growing number of scheduling conflicts between dorm, club, class and SU events. Problems arose, however, according to Student Union sources, when clubs and organizations simply by-passed or were unable to contact Moore, making the SU Calendar Office 
Sufrldes heads 'Campaign for Nl)' as new director of development 
Thomas J ..Suddes has been promoted to director of develop­ment by Dr. James W. Frick, vice president for public relations and development. Suddes, who has been on the University's develop­ment stafF since 1973, will assume the positi•)n immediately. 
"Suddes will direct 'The Cam­paign for Notre Dame,' the major fund-rai!;ing program we announced last April," Frick said. "In addition, he will have respon­sibility for the University's other development programs, including the Annual Fund, and will super­vise the activities of our regional development offices in New York City, Chicago and Los Angeles." 
"I am confident he will bring to the overall management of the campaign the same leadership and competence that he has exhibitied since joining Notre Dame's development staff," Frick added. 
A native of Peoria, IL, Suddes graduated from Notre Dame in 1971 with a degree in communica­tion arts. He was active in hall government and was a participant in and organizer of the University's Bengal Bouts program, an associa­tion he has continued since his return to campus. 
After serving two years as an infantry officer in the Army at Fort Benning, GA, he joined the Uni­
. versity's Public Relations and De­velopment Division as a regional director of development with responsibility for fund-raising efforts among alumni, parents, friends, corporations and founda­tions in a four-state area composed of Minnesota, Wisconsin, Illinois and Indiana. More recently, Suddes has had a major planning role in nationwide efforts to raise $130 million, the goal of the current "Campaign for Notre Dame," which is intended to increase dramatically the Univer­sity's present $108 million endow­ment. The campaign, the largest in Notre Dame's history and the 12th largest now underway in American higher education, has received 
29,735 commitments totaling $70,150,832 in six months. 
Since establishing a formal fund­raising operation in 1947, the University has raised more than $200 million, not including gifts to its current campaign. 
Prof. Dull attends PIRIT conference 
Martin Dull, associate professor of mathematics at Saint Mary's College, attended a meeting of the Project on Institutional Renewal Through the~ Improvement of Teaching (PIIRIT) last Thursday and Friday in Washington, D.C. 
Saint Mary's College is one of eight midwestern institutions invi­ted to participate in PIRIT, which is sponsored by the Society for Values in Higher Education. The goal of· PIRIT is to improve the quality of teaching and learning throught the revision of institutional policies and procedures. 
ineffective. 
As Moore outlined the new procedure, all student activities would be scheduled through the SU Calendar Office. "My office will get in touch with the different people involved to reserve an area, then we'll get back to the student and confirm the activity with the CCE," she said. Student groups who go the CCE Calendar Office first will be referred to Moore. 
Moore emphasized that the role of the SU Calendar Office is to perform ''a service to student groups on campus." "We're not a regulatory group,' she remarked, adding, "I won't say 'no' (to a group) on any date, but I will advise them on when to have their activity." 
The SU Calendar Office is now in. 
the process of expanding its staff and office hours to facilitate the scheduling of student activities. Marnie Brehmer is presently in charge of clubs and other events. ''I would like to get someone in charge of athletics,'' Moore com­mented. 
In addition, the SU Calendar Office is planning to produce a monthly calendar publication to appear by November, as well as establishing a "liaison" with the St. Mary's campus. "We also will be working through the social commissions in each hall,'' Moore noted. . 
"If we can put this into practice and have it working well,'' Moore concluded, referring to the new plan, "it will be a ,major accom­plishment for the calendar office." 

Buy all your Tennis needs 
at Discount Prices lo~est prices on racketball, handball, and squash needs 


Mon-Fri 9-6 233-8712 Sat. 9-4 321 S. Notre Dame 
NOTICE 
Accurate, Fast typing. Mrs. Donoho, Wanted SC tickets, will pay premium. 'Wanted: One MSU student football 
Classified Ads
232-0746. Hours 8 am to 6 pm. Call collect 714-498-3000. ticket. Will pall $$$$(money) or laughs. ----·--------------------------------Call Mary 1313. 
Neat, accurate typing of term papers, Desperately need 2 GA tix toM ich. State. -----------------------------------------------------­manuscripts. Call 287-5162. Please call Russ at 8772. Wanted: Tweo tickets to Michigan State FOUND: on sidewalk, 1976 Holy Cross Ralph-You were right! Bruce and Randy ----·--------------------------------game, either GA or student. Call Mark Preparatory class ring. Call Denisedon't know what they're missing. Give 
U. of Mich. grad. in Russian will tutor Wanted: Used 35 mm camera in good 1436. 4-5402. my regards to everyone. Russian students. Studied in Leningrad. condiotion. Japanese makes OK. Chris------------------------------------Joe. Call 68~:-4332 or 233-9948. Ask for 277-3604 or 272-9895. Wanted: 5 USC tickets. Call Paul at 1424. LOST: one SM C class ring initials CFH, --:----------.---:---;;-­Melanie Lew1s. -------------------------------------78. Reward. 4-5143, Cathy. Leigh: Just because I ant get 1nto tree ----·--------------Need good but inexpensive stereo. Call Wanted: 4 GA tickets for Southern Cal. ------------------shots" doesn't mean I can't wish you a 
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND Mike 1935., Will pay good bucks. Call 1423 ask for LOST: Umbrella, brown and off-white. a very dear friend a happy 21st. Student _oans $20-$150. One day wait. ------------------Mike. Call John 1848 (around midnight). K C 1 percent interest due in 30 days. Desperately need up to 4 Georgia Tech ------------------------------------Do vector spaces have birthdays? Proof LaFortune basement. M-F 11:15-12:15. tickets. Call7912. Wanted: Six GA tickets to USC. Call FOUND: Money on campus. Call7978. will be due Tues., Sept. 27 after you've -------------------------------------Jeanne at 4-4001. ------------------celebrated your 21~t. Come to Vic's birthday party on Tuesday, Desperately need USC tickets-Call-------------------J.J. September 27 at Vegatable Buddies 4-4774. Need 4 USC GA tix. Will pay$, call Ron -----------------­(downtown across from the Big Hotel). ------------------1423. OLD MAN, No cover charge. 25 cent beers. Wanted: 2 USC tix, will pay big bucks. ------------------FOR SALE You really are "old" now! Happy 21st! ----·--------------Call Ron 8711. I WILL BE FOREVER GRATEFUL TO I hope It is as much fun as Kevin's HELP A SKEPTIC: Anyone who took the------------------YOU if youy sell me a pair of GA tickets mystery tour! Dynamic Speed Reading Course, please BIG MONEY FOR FOUR GA TIX. CALL for the USC game. My parents want to '4 Goodyear GT radial, gB0-15, list at $98 Ex-tour guide give me a call-PAHL 6755. JACOB AT 8720 come and che11r for Old Notre Dame. each, on.ly $75. Pair of speakers, $100. -----------------­----·--------------------------------Will pay$$$$$$. Call Mary 1313. For info call 287-5719. Dirty Carpet: Steam Shampoo cheap ($2 
MINSTRELS FOR RENT I'll pay extra for good GA tix-Joan 1280. -------------------------------------and up). Free estimate. Jim 8504 Let us serenade someone you love. Your------------------Needed: Five GA tix for USC. Call Honda CB175, new battery, electric start-----------------­choice of music, sung below their Needed: 1-4 tix for Army game. Call Telanda 4-5745. Good condiotion. $270. 2772123. ';"ureg "Mr. Dome" Young: Tell the truth,! window. Perfect for any occasion. Maria 1318. --------------------------:-----------my man. How Long? Cheap. Call 7442 between 11 am and------------------Wanted: Desperately need 1 student BIG BONANZA SALE -----------------­noon M-F GA's and STUD. for USC game. $$$$ticket for USC-NO game. Will pay$. Call1. Olympus 28 mm f35 Zuiko lens fits aiiThanks to everyone who helped with Sr. ----·--------------Mick 2743. 4-4124. OM-1 and OM-2 cameras, $100. Marita's Book Exchange-Hopefully she Sewing repairs. Reasonable. Call 8051. -------------------------------------2. Azuiki 10 speed bycycle, Maruderwill receive $300 after Student Union -----------,.----·----Wanted: 2 GA tickets for Michigan State Need ride to FCirt Wayne on Friday, Sept. rims, Ideal Saddle, $90. expenses. Thanks. Andrew. Typing. Reasonable rates. Call 8051. game. Will pay$. Call Meg 4-4046. 23. Call Diane> at 7813. 3. Telivision, 19 in. B&W perfectplcture,-----------------­----·--------------------------------------------------$60. Beth K. · 
Need 2 GA's for Michigan State. Coli, Wanted: Desperately need 6 GA tix to 4. Bunch of photo stuff, filters, bulk film Can you help us with accounting? We 8689. any home game. Call Chris at 1158. loaders, best offers call John J. Smith atlova you!
WANTED 
------------------------------------8315. Your secret admirers In the 1st and 2nd WANTED· 'Yc ,JA GA tl k t t Ml hi n Need 4 GA tix to Mich. State Call Steve Wanted: Two GA tlx for Mich St. game. ------------------rows.
0
St t N . a G I eTa~ c ~~118610. Call Jim at 83i'6. FOR SALE: 2 student usc tickets. Call-----------------­
1 a, avy, or aorg a ac g11ma. -------------·------------------------1536 or 7810 Now!!! Rent the Rowing club bus. Reasonable pay top SS$$. Call Pat, 8377 or 8378. Enterprising NO Alum looking to emplo) Need a plethora OF Mich. St. tlx. Call ------------------rates. 24 passenger. Rob 8922. ----·-:--------------sturdy students for outdoor work. War~ Steve at 8422. WANTED. Roomate for_ three bedroom during your free mornings or afternoon! -----------------------------------­house at Corby and Hill. Male gradtoearn$$forthoseweekendsahead. Fo1 DESPERATE: NEED UP TO SIX USC LITTLESTFIGLET, preferrej. $85 per month. Call 288-2991 Info call 277-2234 Mon-Fri after 7 pm TICKETS • WILL PAY EXCELLENT FOR RENT HOW IS YOUR LOVE LIFE? YOU'RE eves. ________: ____:..._ ____..:_ PRICE. CALL FRANK 277-2576. AT THAT SEXY AGE NOW· START 
----------:-----------;--·Need$$$$ Sell me 2 GA USC tix. ---:-----------------Two furnished bedrooms for rent, countr)WORRYING DAD III CASH: for two GA t1x to any home game. Call Frank 277-4826 Need GA ticket for Michigan State. Call house 10 minutes from Notre Dame. HAPPY BIRTHDAY ANGEL. ~~~a~~-.:~:~8..:_ _________ --------:--:---:--------1996. Share' living quarters with two othe1MUCH LOVE FROM BIG FIG AND 
Wanted: Enterpnsmg mstructor or stud-------------------students. 277-3604. PUDGY. Part .Time As~lstant. Swim Coach for ent to sell Christmas and Spring Break Desperately need 4 GA Air Force tlx. -----------------------------------­MichJan.i Marli.ns Sw1m ~lub. ~ay is vacations. Group Travel Associates Inc., Call Marilyn 234-0982. based on e~per_1ence and IS negotiable. 202 Division, Elgin, 11. 60120. (312) ------------------Transportalion 1s necessary. Hour~ from 697_ Need 1 GA Mich. State tix. Call Pam
8855. 
4:30 to 7:00 Mon~ay through Fnday. ------------------4-4146. Attendanc.e at sw1m meets optional. Mary Bergonia is too cheap to pay for a Contact RichardS. Dennen at 288-9654. personal. Send all contributions to 305 Need MSU GA's -Please call Helen, PERSONALS -------------------B-P 7260
Need two rides after USC to 'Hartford Ct.._ _.:________________ · 
2nd Floor Lyons Roayal Archway now MarybE,th 8677. Need six Southern Cal Tix. Mark accepting interviews for section sweet­heart. In-person Interviews granted lipm
BiGMO-NEYMURF-;;-;;;;USCti;k;t; 287-7051. LOST AND FOUND 
to midnight, Monday through Thursday. Call 234-8858 anytime. Ne-;d2s;;;th"e7nc--;;iri;B-;th27;2;0. LOST: one SMG class ring. Initials L.D.­Equal opportunity exploiter. • -------------:-------------------------Class of '78. Reward offered. Call Part tlrne-must be Willing to work wanted: 4 usc tickets. Will pay good4-5425. weekends. See Mr. Randazzo Forum I bucks Call Jim at 1419 


and II Cinema 52709 US 31 North. · · 
.. ·' ~·......................•,.'-:..•..•..•.. ' a••..•..•..... '"• ~·...·'t-' ~ •,.:~·...••"'•'""':., ·..• ..• ... ·~~lo. ....... •,.....·i....;.9 .··a·& • ...·~·~ • 6....r,. "'t..•t,......k?fl...\.'"11,.............. k lo ..... •........" ......"'.:, •,.. .. 9 ..,., , ....., .... • .. -: ..................... -. ..·..-~.: ·-..........·..........................·. •'···-...•.:. 
. . . 99 
. ... . . 
•, ......... . 

the observer Monday, September 26, 1977 
--Irish score 17 fourth quarter points 
ND turns back Boilernnakers 
by Paul Stevenson Sports Editor 
West Lafayette, Ind. -Deja vue is the best way to describe Notre Dame's come from behind victory over the Boilermakers this past Saturday. The Irish were trailing 24-14 entering the fourth quarter, when Joe Montana performed his first encore since the 1975 gridiron season, leading Notre Dame to 17 fourth period points and a 31-24 triumph. 
Yes. the Monongahela Minute­man, in a style reminiscent of the 1975 contests with Air Force and North Carolina, directed the Irish offensive attack and destroyed any chances Purdue had for an upset-win. 
The first score came with 4:34 elapsed in the contest, when Scott Sovereen connected on a 25 yard field goal. The tally was set up by a Notre Dame fumble on the Irish 32 yard line. 
The Fighting Irish were unable to move the ball and on their next possession, Purdue marched 61 yards in nine plays to reach paydirt. The touchdown came on a first down and goal at the Notre Dame eight. On the play, fresh­man phenom. Mark Herrmann, found wide receiver Reggie Arnold open for the score. 
The Irish trailed 10-0 after Sovereen added the extra point. Then, the coaches replaced num­her-one signal caller, Rusty Lisch, with Gary Forystek. In Forystek's first series of downs, the Irish travelled 30 yards downfield before stalling. 
After holding the Boilermakers, on their next series of downs, the Irish began what was to be their first scoring drive at the Purdue 42 yard line. On the third play of the series, Forystek dropped back to pass. But, with receivers well covered and pressure from the Purdue defensive line, Forystek left the pocket and found some
Paul Stevenson·=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:::=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:::=:=:=:=:===========:=:=:=:=:===:=:=:=:=·.===:=:=::;::=:=========:=:===:=:===:::=:::=·:·::::::=.=::::::::::::::::::·:·.:· 
The Irish Eye 
·=:=====:=:=:==============:=:===::=::;:;:;:;::=:=:=:========:===================::::===:=:::::=::;:;:;:;:;:::;:;::::=:::=: The Monongahelci Minuteman 
The Irish are "fighting" once again. Or, if God was on vacation, he stopped off in West Lafayette in time for the fourth quarter. 
Joe Montana may not be cot?­pared to Bernadette~ but the m1r­acles ~e has caused m.South Be~d rate r1ght up there w1th those m Lourdes. . 
When the Monongah_ela Mmute­man entered the hneup, the seventh largest crowd in Purdue history wa_s awa~ened. The 68,966 football w1tnessmg the ~attle first h~nd knew of Montana s accom­phshments. . . 
In. 1975, With only ten. mmutes left m the game, the Irish were losing to Air ~orce, 30-10. M~n­t~na was then mserted as the Insh signal caller and when the contest
ended, the Notre Dame gridders had made "the greatest comeback · N t D h' t 
.. 31 30
m o re arne 1s ory. -· 
Just one week prior to the battle · c 1 d M t 1 d th Ir'lsh 
m o ora o, on ana e e
offensive unit from a 0 deficit
14_ against North Carolina in the fourth quarter to a 21-14 triumph. But a shoulder injury suffered last fall prevented Montana from Jogging any time during the 1976 campaign. However, many believed the Irish signal caller would bounce back to lead Notre Dame in 1977. However, because of his injury, Montana fell behind Rusty Lisch and Gary Forystek oh the depth chart. Both of the quarterbacks in front of him were very capable and for Montana to advance, he would have to turn in a superb perfor­mance when the opportunity arose. The Irish fell behind early against the Boilermakers, 10-0. Dan Devine wasted no time in trying to find a man that could direct his wing-T offense. Gary Forystek was called upon, and 
running room up the middle. 
However, after gaining five yards, the Irish signal caller was hit by three Boilermaker defenders and was thrown to the turf. An ambulance brought the injured quarterback to a neighboring hos-pita! and it was later discovered that Forystek had suffered a broken clavicle and a concussion. 
Lisch assumed the controls once 
again and guided the offense the 
remaining 27 yards for the score. 
The touchdown came on a six yard 
toss from Lisch to tri-captain Terry 
Eurick. Dave Reeve's conversion 
narrowed Purdue's lead to 10-7. 
On the Boilermaker's next pos­session, Herrmann was intercepted by Doug Becker at the Purdue 32 yard line. The Irish linebacker returned the ball all the way to the endzone, but a clipping infraction on the three yard line, returned the ball to the Purdue 18. 
On third down and ten at the 18, Lisch threw a playbook pass to Eurick for the Notre Dame touch­down. Reeve connected on the point after and gave the Irish their first lead, 14-10. 
Purdue would not be out-done as Herrmann guided his troups down-field for another tally. Starting at their own 34, the Boilermakers began· a scoring march. Five plays and 66 yards later, Purdue led, 17-14. The score came on a 37 yard aerial strike from Herrmann to Raymond Smith. 
Then, after holding Notre Dame, the Boilermakers tallied on their next opportunity. Starting from their own 12 yard line, Purdue marched the remaining 88 yards in seven plays. The major plays in the drive were a 48 yard pass from Herrmann to Arnold and a 43 yard touchdown strike to Orlando Pope. With the conversion by Sovereen, Purdue increased their lead, 24-14. 
In the first half, Purdue had compiled 14 first downs, 32 yards rushing and 254 yards in the air. Meanwhile, the Irish had notched 
although the senior quarteroacK generated movement in the offense, after only nine plays at the controls, Forystek was injured. 
Lisch returned to the lineup and led the Irish to two second quarter scores, but in the third period, when the Irish were still down by ten points, Notre Dame needed a change, a change which could lift the Irish off the ground and enable them to stage a comeback. 
With 1:40 left in the third period, Montana was inserted in the quar­terback slot. The change seemed to have such an emotional effect on the team as a whole. The offense executed with more determination and confidence. They played as though they knew they could score. 
M t , t 10 · t0 th 
on ana s en ranee e game was remarkable. Purdue ~s well as Notre Dame fans knew h1s
l'fi · Th d f 
qua I 1cat1ons. . e me~e s~un o 
the crowd upon h1s commg mto the 
t fl d th' · · 
con est re ecte IS opmton. 
. A qua~erback is not soley statis­ttcs. A_ stgnal caller must generate enthus1asm throughout the team as a whole. He must be a lead~r. If the quarterback does not dtspl~y 
confidence, . then the te~m wt.ll not reflect thts confidence tn thetr performance. 
There have been so many rumors circulating about the campus since the season began. The coaches and team have felt the pain of defeat once this year. Hopefully,they've realized their mistakes. At least in Saturday's game, an attempt was made to add variety and diversity to the play selection. 
Montana displayed a great amount of poise, even though he had been in similar situations, it had been two years. When Dave · Mitchell scored the final Irish . touchdown, it was proof to those 48 yards on the ground and 120 more via the aerial attack. 
The entire third period was scoreless, but the strategic change which altered the complexion of the contest, occurred with only 1 :40 left in the quarter. Montana entered the lineup for the first time in two years. On his first play, the Irish signal caller handed off to David Mitchell, who rambled for eight yards but fumbled when tackled. 
Purdue: now had the football on the Notn: Dame 30 with an excel­lent opportunity to increase their leading margin. A few plays later, when fac•~d with a fourth down and goal at the nine, Sovereen entered the game to attempt a 27 field goal for Purdue. Although the three­point try was good, the Boiler­makers were called for illegal procedur•~. On his next attempt, Sovereen was wide left with his boot and the score remained, 24-14. The Irish then had possession at their own 20 yard line with Mon­tana leading the offense only seconds into the fourth quarter. Hitting Ken MacAfee for a 26 yard strike and Kris Haines for compte­tions of 19 and 25 yards, the Irish then had a first and goal at the Purdue t·en yard line. Unable to advance the ball for the touchdown, Reeve booted his only field goal of the game and narrowed the Purdue lead to 24-17. 
Several plays later, with a first down at the Notre Dame 40, Herrmann was intercepted by Luther Bradley. It appeared as though Bradley would duplicate his feat oftwo years ago and return/the ball all tlhe way for a touchdown, however, the senior cornerback was tripped up by Herrmann. 
The Irish offense now had a first down at the Purdue 35. Montana took two passing plays to lead the team for the touchdown. Both passes wc!nt to MacAfee. First a 22 yard strike and then a 13 yard toss over the middle for the tally with 
that believed tqe team could bounce back. ·· 
Scoring 17 points in the final period when the chips were down was truly the sign of a champion­ship football team. It makes one feel optimistic about the remainder of the season. The team has revealed the potential that many" believed they possessed. Now, they must do it consistently and for the remainder of the year if they wish to reclaim their preseason status. 
The Notre Dame-Purdue game was one of the most exciting the Irish have played in a couple of years. It's hard to recall the last time 93 passes have been thrown in one game·. 
H d c h D · 

ea ' oac Dan evme was unbelievably effervescent iri the post-game Irish locker room. 
"This was a tremendous win by the players," Devine stressed. "They
11 h · h h 

rea y ung m t ere. T is was one the great•~st exhibitions of courage I've ever seen in a team." 
There may be numerous opinions and beliefs about the coaches and team, however, this Saturday, the Irish proved they deserve their second chance. With the entire coaching staff working together with the team, a great deal can be accomplis.hed in the remaining football weekends. 
No matter what the cause of disagreement or problems, if the squad truly wants to finish at the top, they must continue to play the way they revealed they were capable of Saturday. The students cannot just sit back and make comments. The support of the student body, through any situa­tions whkh may develop, can help guide this team to the comeback they've illlitiated. 


....... 


.... 
Quarterback joe Montana completed nine out of 14 passes for 154 yards to lead the Irish to 17 fourth quarter points. 
10:22 left in the game. With Reeve's extra point, the Irish had tied the contest at 24. 
Minutes later, with only 4:121eft ,n the battle, the Irish began their final scoring drive of the afternoon. 
The march covered 68 yards in six plays. Raine's 26 yard reception and a IS yard toss from Montana to MacAfee highlighted the drive. The tally came on a five yard burst by Mitchell off left guard. When Reeve added the conversion, the Irish led 31-24. 
Herrmann attempted to lead the Boilermakers to a last second comeback, but after four straight
incomplete passes, the Irish re­gained possession and ran out the clock. 

The contest was one of the most thrilling ever played by the Devine­coached Fighting Irish. There were 93 passes in the contest, 51 by Purdue and 42 by Notre Dame. The Irish amassed 424 yards total offense, 315 in the air. The Boilermakers chalked up 403 total offense, 351 through the sky. In one quarter of play, Montana com­pleted nine of 14 for 154 yards and one touchdown. Haines had five catches for 120 yards while MacAfee added nine receptions for 114 yards. 
Herrmann went 24 of 51 for 351 yards and three touchdowns, while being intercepted three times. Herrmann also carried the ball five times. These 56 rushing and passing plays sets a new mark for a Notre Dame opponent for the total offense record. The previous record was set by Roger Staubach of Navy, who had 55 rushing and passing plays in 1964. 
The Purdue signal caller needs only 28 more yards passing to 1000 yards in the air for the season. Herrmann has also thrown 73 completions, on less than the entire 1976 season output. 
Purdue now prepares for Wake Forest next Saturday in Ross-Ade Stadium, while the Irish will enter­tain Michigan State in their home opener. 

Dave O'Keefe The Road Ahead 
Instant Replay 

The Purdue game is history and the Irish may be back on the road to the National Championship that many felt would be theirs before the season started. Joe Montanawill in all likelihood takeover the offense on the merits of his eleventh-hour heroics in West Lafayette. And Dan Devine will keep his job. 
It seems like ages ago, but less than three years have passed since the Sunday night in December when Ara Parseghian decided that he had had enough. I remember listening to WSND's "Speaking of Sports" show that night as dozens of callers offered candidtates for the head coaching job. They ranged from Don Shula to Dean Hofman, but throughout the show there was one unanimous sentiment emphatically expressed: "Anyone but Devine." 
But Devine it was, and the doomsayers and critics could only wait for the moment when he would lose, then point and say, "I told yr. so." The contagion spread, and students and fans found themsel•· ,.s hoping for Irish losses. Few could explain their reasons for not wanting Devine, but it mattered little to them. 
Rational evaluation of the situation also mattered little to a press perenially obsessed with Notre Dame football. Sport magazine declared open season shortly after Devine's appointment with an article detailing his myriad offenses during his tenure at Green Bay. Not once did the article mention Devine's miracles in Missouri or Arizona State, but any such mention would have been wholly · inconsistent with the tone of the article. 
Three years later, the press is still trying to Bert Lance the man right out of his job. Bill Gleason's recent story in the Chicago Sun-Times about Devine ran under the banner, "Job in Jeopardy?" despite the fact that there was absolutely no public evidence that Devine's job was in danger. 
But Dan Devine is not a victim of the press. He is a victim of his job. He was hired to come to a school where he was not wanted, to coach players who didn't want to play for him, and he has been here for three years. But the most amazing thing about Devine's tenure has been the abuse and accusations and rumors that have swirled around the man's head ever since he came to Notre Dame. His critics seem to believe that Devine is out to ruin Notre Dame football, that he is inflicting malicious injury on teams that would have done better had he not been coaching. No one seems tq realize that Devine wants to win as badly as we want him to win. 
Devine stood in the locker room at Ross-Ade Stadium Saturday circled by reporters, answering their questions carefully and quietly. When he had finished, he turned and walked through the locker room. Terry Eurick stopped him. "Coach, I'm sorry I let you down," he said. Eurick had been playing, and playing well, with a painful back injury suffered against Pittsburgh. He finally left the Purdue game after playing three halves with the injury, "just gutting it out," as Scott Zettek put it. 
"No, no, ... " is all Devine could manage as he shook Eurick's hand. He continued through the locker room, shook a few hands, and slipped away unnoticed. 
It is one thing to play three halves of college football with the kind of pain that finally forced Eurick out. It is quite another to continue in a job for three years under the kind of intense, consistent pressure that Devine has experienced. "Gutting it out." 






