

Volunteers needed 
A committee headed by Student Body Vice-President Mike Casey is undertaking a cleanup of the litter students scattered along Howard St. after the Saturday night celebration of the victory over San Francisco. Photo b Paul Cleven er 

Apathetic students kill parietals issue 
by Sue BaUmann from the student body," admitted 
Smits. "We worked fifteen hours 
The final March 4 deadline for each week because the students the St. Mary's parietal surveys told us they wanted parietals failed to produce the required sixty extended. The committee was percent response necessary for the composed of students working for parietals committee to present its other students, and the students case for the extension of parietals didn't support the committee." according to Diane Smits, parietals As a result of the failure to return committee chairperson. the surveys, Smits has become very 
Smits noted that the committee disillusioned with the student body received only a thirty-six percent and has come to the conclusion response from the student body that the students. only "complain despite the fact that each student and refuse to act on their com­was given a survey and reminded plaints.'' She attributes this lack of by her RA to complete and return action to "lack of concern and it. "We received more surveys apathy on the part of the student from parents than from students," body." commented Smits, "and all the Smits noted that the committee students had to do was walk down has done extensive research on the the hall and slip it under the RA's parietals issue and has plenty of door." arguments in favor of the extension 
Shortly before the final deadline of visitation hours. However, for the surveys, an editorial arguments are ''worthless without appeared in the Observer calling the support of the student body we the poor survey response to the are representing. In order to have attention of the students and a case for the extension of visitation warning them to return the surveys hours, we need some concrete to the committee or the issue would evidence that the student body be considered closed. However, wants an extension of parietals," the editorial apparently did little to 'she added. mptivate the students, because Because the parietal committee only twenty-oue surveys were spent so much time and energy returned between the appearance researching the parietals issue, of the editorial and the final Smits is presently considering deadline. some type of petition to reopen the 
"It was like a sla in the face 
Ducks on St. Mary's Lake bask in the long overdue sunshine. into the sixties this week. [Photo by Paul Clevenger] 

The 

Observer 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's 
Tuesday, March 8, 1977
Vol. XI, No. 95 

Anti-Redlining bills ineffective, disclosure laws too lenient 
by Jack Pizzolato Senior Staff Reporter 
Editor's Note: This is the second in a three-part series on the nation­wide problem of "redlining" in mortgage loan procedures with particular emphasis on the practice in the South Bend area. The first article introduced the problem and some of the arguments advanced by each side -the lenders and their potential cUents. The second article deals with the Home Mort­gage Disclosure Act of 1975, dis­cussing the effect it has had and some of the weaknesses of the law. The final article will outline some of the solutions that have been pro­posed or already instituted in other 
.sections of the U.S. 
Presently, redlining is not illegal in Indiana. There are no laws 

The above map shows where home mortgage and homewhich prevent discrimination on improvement loans are being made in South Bend as tabulatedthe basis of geographic area. A bill from the first home mortgage disclosure statements of seven localintroduced last year, which would lending institutions. The map represent what percentage of a totalhave established penalities and $34.5 million in home loans was invested in areas in and outside theallowed individuals to take of­city.
fending institutions to court, was ate different types of neighbor­they didn't want to."

killed in the State House. Sen. 

hoods within a single zone has
Doug Hunt from South Bend is now "Realtors," he continued, 
reduced the effectiveness of the "would tell people they
drafting a bill which would give couldn't 
first disclosures. "It is question­get loans in certaincertain tax incentives to banks and 
able how much we can learn from
savings and loan associations neighborhoods." (S&L's) investing in inner city this," said Conrad Damian, Robert C. Plows, attorney for the
a areas. spokesman for the ad hoc commit­Equal Credit Opportunity Section tee, "although we are putting of the Division of Consumer Affairs 
Since the Home Mortgage Dis­those statistics together." in Washington, thinks it is muchclosure Act of 1975 was passed, In the near future, however, too early to guage the effects of theSouth Bend's ad hoc committee on lending institutions will be re­Home Mortgage Disclosure Act.

redlining has been concerned with quired to disclose by census tracts, "Census tracts," Plows said, "willexplaining the law and informing which are smaller and more de. definately make the law a morethe public about it. The Disclosure 

fined in area. Banks and S&L's 
accurate and better tool."
Act requires depository institutions must release a disclosure statement "But it is still an experiment."

who are federally insured or regu­within 90 days of the end of their he emphasized. ''If local groupslated and have assets of more than fiscal year. Tower Federal Savings and officials can use the informa­$10 million, to disclose the location and Loan, in South Bend, whose tion to work cooperatively withand dollar amount of residential operating year ended Sept. 30, will lending institutions, then it will bemortgage or home improvement be the first to comply with the new of benefit.''

loans made or purchased within the census tract regulations. William Leefers, assistant vice­last fiscal year and for each Damian sees the Home Mort­president in the Loan Investmentconsecutive year. This information gage Disclosure Act as limited in department of Tower Federal, feels must be made available for public scope:. "It doesn't require any­the disclosure statement could give inspection and copying for a period thing except disclosure, and there the public a false impression. "Iof five years from the date of its are no penalties for any apparent don't think it does a whole lot ofrelease. 

redlining," he explained. "It good," he said, "because itIn order to ease the disclosure simply allows your everyday citizen doesn't yield the type of informa­process, the Federal Reserve Board to get an idea of what the situation tion it was initially set out to give."
originally allowed banks and savil!_gs 

is.'' 
Leefers countered proponents of theinstitutions to report loans by zip Lending institutions often pro­Disclosure Act by arguing thatcode areas. The relative size and test that the disclosure statement people are buying in the suburbstendenc · for zip codes to incorpor­does not give a true picture of the and that these homes, because they situation. They contend that the are new and more costly, receive 
majority of mortgages naturally go more mortgage money. "We also outside the city because that is get savings from people who live where the bulk of new construction outside the city," he added. 
is. Further, they assert,. there are "Around here," Leefers said, simply not as many requests for "it really doesn't make much mortgage loans within the city. difference where a house is "There are areas," complained located as long as we feel that there one local banker, "that we just is enough value in it and that the don't get applications from." applicant's okay." 
''There are obviously not as Leefers explained, however, that many requests for mortgage loans if the lending institution got i~to an in this neighborhood (southeast are!l where property values were side) for instance," Damian con­going down due to neighborhood ceded. "However, part of that is neglect or tf,e presence of industry, because people just haven't been then they would have to be careful able to get loans, unless they were how much they loaned. FHA, and they've had to buy on "We withhold no mortgage mon­land contracts." ey here," a loan officer at Sobieski 
According to Damian, there has Federal said adamantly. "The dis­been a growing interest among closure statement is time-con­people in purchasing property in suming but it has to be done." city neighborhoods. He cites the Another South Bend banker nation's economic slump as a major noted that the pressure is perhaps rea<;on why low cost urban housing good. "You're bound to find a few has become attractive. "But we 'rotten apples' who are redlining have reoorts." he revealed, "in and the community should know 
which people had a hard time what's going on." 
getting a lqan or they were turne.d "But like anything," he rea­

.,~,.~...,.....,..,..,_,.,.._,,.--..,...,...........,.J'-....""~~~"'~~~,...,_,'-""~~~"'~~~,....,.,.._,,.--..,........,..11"1111,...,_,.....,""~,. down and had to go FHA even rf /continued on page 71 
J 


the observer Tuesday, March~' 1977
2 
.  
On Campus Today _  ___..._.  
11 a.m. to  -exhibition,  ceramics,  painting,  sculpture  and  

3 p.m. 
1:15 p,m. 
3:30p.m. 
4:30p.m. 
6:30p.m. 
7:30p.m. 
·7:30p.m. 
7:30 and 10 p.m. 
8 p.m. 
8 p.m. 
8:15p.m. 
9 to 11 p.m. -concert, carl casazza, matt feeney, steve todry, steve rodgers, joan dagmun and joe murphy, nazz, 

History prof selected for I iterary award 
A new book on revivalism in the Catholic Church by Dr. Jay P. Dolan, assistant professor of his­tory at Notre Dame, has been selected for the Frank O'Malley Publication Series Award by the College of Arts and Letters and the Notre Dame Press. The author receives a $500 advance against future royalties for the manuscript which will be published later this year. 
The award is named for a distinguished Notre Dame teacher who inspired thousands of stu­dents, including a Pulitzer Prize winner, during his tenure from 1933 until his death on May 7, 
1974.  Faculty  members  in  the  
College of Arts  and  Letters  are  
eligible for the competition.  

Dolan's book, "Catholic Revival­ism in the U.S.: 1830-1900," traces the current popularity of Pentacos­talism among American Catholics to the "soul-stirring and body­warming" preaching that attracted our ancestors in the last century. He calls revivalism the "spearhead of a widespread religious awaken­ing among American Catholics, an awakening whose strength was manifested inthe success it achiev­
~·--·""""i"oo"l:~----­
stop by the Observer office (.3rd floor Lafortune) . , · · to fill out an application. 
silkscreen of five nd students, isis gallery; free. 
-workshop, skill identification, sponsored by smc student affairs, executive board room. 
-computer course, "minitab statistics systems,"· room 115, math building. 
-seminar, "Microevolution of feeding behavior in garter snakes" by dr. steven arnold, univ. of chicago, sponsored by biology dept., g~lvin aud. 
-short films, "the iazz of dave brubeck" and "song of myself: walt whitman", howard hall, free. 
-film, "Ia traviatta" by grusebbe verdi, sponsored by modern and classical languages dept., audio visual center, cce. 
-meeting, charismatic prayer meeting, log chapel. 
-film, "singing in the rain," sponsored by cinema '77, engineering aud., $1. 
-boxing, bengal bouts finals, ace, $3 and $2. 
-concert, newark boys choir, sponsored by perform­ing arts series, o'laughlin aud., $3.50, general and $2 students. 
-lecture, "eastern european jewry and the land of israel" by prof. bernard d. weinryb, chairman, dept. of history, dropsie college, sponsored by center for study of judaism and christianity in anitquity, library aud. 
ed in building up a strong island 
community in the midst of a 
changing American society." 

Dolan, winner of the prestigious 
John Gilmary Shea Prize for an 
earlier book on Irish immigration, 
believes that certain conditions in 
this country helped foster the 
growth of revivalism. These in­
cluded the increased immigration 
of male religious orders who 
brought with them the tradition of 
preaching parish missions, the 
widespread neglect of religion a­
mong Catholic immigrants, the 
scarcity of priests and parishes in 
the U.S. and the renewed success 
that missions were enjoying in ·Europe. 
The Observer is puhl1shed Monday through Fnday and weekly during tht> summer 5ession, except during the exam and vacat1on periods The Observer 1s published by studt'nts of tht> Umvt>rsity of Notre Dame and St Mary's College. Subscnption~ may be purchased for $20 per year ($10 per semester) from The Obser­ver, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
The Observer is a member of lhe Associated Press All reproduction rights are reserved 

The Observer is looking for some fast moving people to work in ad sales and 
service next year Excellent sales experience and a healthy commission are offered 
Conrad-Hilton chosen 


Seniors take formal to Chicago 
by Barb Breitenstein News Editor 

The senior class has announced final plans for the senior fomtal, to be lteld on Friday, April 15. The dance and activities will be at the Conrad-Hilton Hotel and ballroom in Chicago. 
The cost for the formal will be $35, including a cocktail reception, dinner, the dance and a champagne toast. The price does not include i.ransportation, but buses will be provided for cost. Bids will go on sale the two weeks following spring break. 
Buses will leave Notre Dame at 6 
p.m. 
South Bend, arriving at the Hilton for the cocktail reception at 7 

p.m. 
Chicago time. The dinner and~ formal will begin at 8:30 p.m., and continue until 2 a.m. with a champagne toast as a "final fare­


well" at 1:30 a.m. Buses will take the test Saturday, if they want 
call 8809. 

return to campus immediately after P"',..._ll\ll,......~,.,_.,..~,.,-..,."1,-._"""1.,_...,~,.,.--_,..... 
the dance. 

Those attending the dance need not take the bus, however, as am pie parking will be available at the Hilton, according to Jay Pittas, formal committee chairman. The 
Howard Hall 
pt·esents 

film series 

*The Observer 
Night Editor: Paul Schappler Asst. Night Editor: Bill Rivard Layout Staff: Sandy Colson,. Cindy McKie!, Stan Kudlacz, Dr. K. 
Features layout: Chris Smith Sports Layout: Greg Solman Typists~ Kitty Conklin, Karen Chiames, Kathy Egbert, Mel Celeste Night Controller: Donald Roos Day Editor: Jean Powley Copy Reader: Tom Byrne Ad layout: Pat Russell Photographer: Paul Clevenger 
Congratulations Gary Fair! 
hotel is offering a discount on rooms for overnight and reserva­tion cards will be distributed when bids are purchased. The hotel will also provide change rooms for girls traveling by bus who want to dress for the formal upon arrival. 
The senior class will offer a flower-ordering service at discount prices. Flowers will be delivered at the cocktail reception. 
Although the formal is scheduled on the night before the engineering licensing tests, this will not be a P,roblem, according to Pittas. ''11tere was nothing we could do about it," he explained."We pick­ed the date for the formal last year, before they scheduled the test. There are about 100 engineers involved and the ones I've talked to said they were going to the formal anyway. Besides, the bus is coming back right after the dance and they would be back in time to 
ND-SMC SENIOR CLASS PRESENTS 

Senior Formal '77 
Grand Ballroom Conrad Hilton Hotel, Chicago , II Friday , April 15 
Bids go on sale Tuesday March 22 at Notre Dame & St. Mary's 



Acareer in law­
without law school. 
What can you do with only a bachelor's degree? 
Now there is a way to bridge the gap between an undergraduate education and a challenging, respon­sible career. The Lawyer's Assistant is able to do work traditionally done by lawyers. 
Three months of intensive training can give you the skills-the courses are taught by lawyers. You choose one of the seven courses ·offered-choose the city in which you want to work. 
Since 1970, The Institute for Paralegal Training has placed more than 1600 graduates in law firms, banks, and corporations in over 75 cities. 
If you are a senior of high academic standing and are interested in a career as a Lawyer's Assistant. we'd like to meet y,ou. · 
Contact your placement office for an interview with our representative. 
We will visit your campus on 
TUESDAY, MARCH 29 
The Institute for Paralegal Training 
235 South 17th Street, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19103 (215) 732-6600 Operated by Para-Legal, Inc . 
AC-0035' .· · 
to," he said. 
''The times and places for bid sales will be announced this week. For more iBformation Pittas advi­ses seniors to watch for Observer ads. 

Alcohol groups ~~et weekly 
Three organizations on campus now meet regularly to assist those with a problem related to alcohol. 
A.A. closed meetings are held Wednesday and Saturday at 8 p.m. in the East Room at Holy Cross House. The Alanon Group meets at 6:45 p.m. Wednesday on 4th Floor of the Memorial Library. Students on Alcohol Problems (SOAP), a peer related discussion and referral source, meets on Tuesday at 6 p.m. 
Anyone with questions should 



Tuesday, March 8, 1977 the observer 

1971-72 student disciplinary violations revealed 
by Thomas O'NeU Editor-In. Chief 
EDITOR'S NOTE: Documents re­tahied by past student government judicial coordinators at Notre Dame -relating .to cases of student mis­conduct which went before the University Appeals Board during 1971 and 1972 have recently been located in the Student Government 
offices. 
The documents were found by The Observer In a IDe cabinet generally considered to be open to publlc access. 
The following article which in­cludes information from those documents, does not Include either the names of the persons involved in these cases or any information which could lead to their Identifi­cation. 
After examining these docu­ments, The Observer brought their existence to the attention of current 
·Student Government Judicial Co­ordinator Bob Bode. Bode has decided the documents will become the personal property of his suc­cessor and will not be avaUable to 
The other side: 
.Retirement policy defended 
Compulsory retirement stan­dards, responsible for the refusal of the University to rehire Prof. James Danehy, are intended pri­marily to provide opportunities for younger people, according to sev­eral Notre Dame professors. 
Compulsory retirement is not new, nor is it peculiar to Notre Dame. Every major corporation, agen~y, university, and business has some type of policy regarding retirement. 
Donald P. Kommers, director of the Center for Civil Rights outlined some general reasons for the policy. 
"I guess the theory of the law is that there is a greater need for the young to get a chance. Compulsory retirement opens up spaces at the lower end of the pole," he stated. "Opportunities would be even harder for the younger people if there weren't any." 
Kommers added that he does not approve or disapprove of the University's policy, especially in this instance, because he does not know all the facts. He explained that he could speak only in terms of generalities concerning the system as a whole across the nation. 
Professor Jeremiah Freeman, chairman of the Chemistry Depart­ment, agreed with the idea of compulsory retirement "to open the~.,,-" ·£()r young people. 
There are currently professors on campus who are past 65, but still teaching. They are subject to reapproval each year by their department. According to Free­man, Danehy was asked last fall to submit his case for a departmental approval. Danehy submitted a 

to a department commit-
BUT ARE YOU GOING HbME WITH THAT HEAD OF HAIR?!? 
Why not get your hair looking its best by having it styled by the best.... 
a~re 
Wi,W 'ammer. 


~~1637 LWW so . .::~::~~::IFrostyl 
PH 232·6622 

liiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii.iiiiiii;.iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~~;;;----------iiiiil 
the public in the future due to their sensitive nature. 
Eight cases of student mlscon­duct are reported in the docia­ments. Only three of these cases are described in detaU in the documents and referred to in this article. 
A student entertaining a female cousin in his room well after the cessation of parietals was dis­covered by a resident priest on October 29, 1972. In a letter dated November 5, the priest wrote to the then Dean of Students Fr. James 
1 Riehle, "I observed that (the girl) was wearing a nightgown, bath­robe and slippers and that her kit for putting up her hair was pre­
. pared on the desk." 
The student insisted to Riehle that his relationship with his cousin was "familiar, never sexual," but was penalized by the dean with a $50 fine and three semesters of disciplinary probation, a penalty which prohibits a student from participating in extracurricular act­
ivities. The student then approached the Appeals Board, the body desig­
tee who reviewed his case and voted against reappointment. 
Freeman explained that he did not know the exact reasons for the committee's decision since it is decided in conference, but he added that many factors are taken into consideration. 
"The question we have to an­swer is 'What is best for the department?' " he said. "It's a long term problem of what is best. It's not that there is anything terribly wrong with Prof. Danehy. In effect, Danehy wants us to provide reasons as to why he shouldn't be kept on while we want reasons why he should." 
-

Freeman expressed surprise at the student reaction, explaining that students tend to automatically think that simply because a teacher is leaving the replacement will be inferior. 
Kommers also was surprised at the student reaction to compulsory retirement because it has been at Notre Dame and nationwide for some time. 
John Santos, professor of psych­ology and director of the Center for the Aging, explained the history of forced retirement. 
"It all goes back to the 1930's when the New Dealers were for­ming all the Social Security legisla­tion," stated Santos. "They picked 65 because it was the age used by Western. Europe since the 19th century. The age 65 has nothing to 
with anything biological, mental or 
social, it is simply a standard set by 
European countries." 
According to Santos any age 
could have been selected, but the 
need was to have a definite 
standard nated t~ review decisions of the dean of students, for consideration of the case. 

. In a letter to the Appeals Board, the student referred to a past ''difficult period of loneliness ... all stemming from frustration and ending in tears." He added that his cousin had provided emotional support and helped him overcome his depression. 
The board, however, refused to reconsider the penalty, declaring that it was "not inappropriate" and that "it served as a warning and reminder" to the student in the future. 
Marijuana Offender 
Other documents revealed the experience of a senior whose guilt was upheld by the Appeals Board in March, 1971, for "being present at a marihuana (sic) party." The board believed his presence there ''implied his actual violation of the University rule" against marijuana use. 
The board also charged the student had been warned previous­ly by his hall rector "about the 
"across the board" will invariably affect someone who wishes to keep on working but it is easier to deal with ·generalities than to take the time for every individual case. 
Danehy's objection is based on dissatisfaction with the ambiguity of the faculty manual and the conflict of policy of forced retire­

. ment with his civil rights;. The question of the constitutionality of compulsory retirement will proba­bly appear more in the courts during the next few years as more individuals fight the law, in the view of Santos. But, according to both Freeman and Kommers, there is some legitimacy in the general idea of opening places for young
people. 
"I think that overall it is a must," said Freeman. "Some people must leave to make room for others. From a young person's viewpoint it can only help." 

~---------------, 

Stanford Hall 
Put the right man 
in the right office 
Vote 
N0 rm G 

I . 
f·ee r 
Vice Pres. 
Starsk w b
y e ·er 
Sec. Treasurer 

FRESH~~MEN. :
(J5m~ 
Consider a truly
&'s~ l 
Humanistic Education 
~~~ 
come and talk with us:
t~~\®, 
General Program of Liberal Studies 
Were looking for certain majors to become Lieutenants. 
Mechanical and civil en· feririg f.utl scholarships. All gineering majors ... areo· offering $100 a month space and aeronautical en· allowance during the last gineering majors ... majors two years of the program. in electronics ... computer Flying opportunities. And all science ... mathematics. leading to an Air Force offi­
The Air Force needs peo· cers commission, plus ad· pie ... many with the above vanced education. academic majors. And If you'd like to cash in on AFROTC has several differ· these Air Force benefits, ent programs where you start by looking into the Air can fit ... 4·year, 3·year, or Force ROTC. 2·year programs. Some of· 
For more info call 
. Capt. Davis at 283-6635 Put it all together in Air Force ROTC. 

-IJBIIRS~ 
402 Dixieway North 3401 . L WW South Bend (near airport) Sun-thurs 10:30-10:00 Fri & Sat 1 0:30-11 :00 
FAST DRIVE THRU SERVICE
---....--------­
11 5tt IBuy 2 singles I2Q<t I 1 · ff I Get One I ff 1
•o IF 1o 1 
ree IChili I
IE..,.., ......,h 31 L Expires March 31 I Expires March 31! 
-...-------.----­
same type of offense."_ 
The board decided "after being advised by a competent psycho­logical authority," that "repeated violations of the University Rule (on drugs) after being warned could be a symptom of a psycho­logical problem for the accused." The board recommended pro­fessional psychological help for the student. 
Penalty for the offense amounted to the student presenting himself for "suitable constructive activity" four hours a week. "Constructive" activity was defined as "physical activity'' by the board. 
Indeeent Behavior? 

Another case involved a senior Arts and Letters student who was charged by Riehle with "exposing himself' at a home football game , in October of 1972. Two St. Mary'~ · [continued on page 6] 
*The Observer 
anindependentstudentnewspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's 
The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. It does nut necessarily reflect the policies of either institution. The ne·ws is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters are the views of their authors. Column space is available to aH members of ·the community, and letters are encouraged to promote the free expression of varying opinions on r.ampus. 
Box QBusiness Manager Tom Fronczak Notre Dame

Advertising Manager Mike Miller Photo Editor 1ony Chifari Ind. 46556 
EDITORIAL BOARD 

Thomas O'Neil Dan Sanchez Chris Smith Gregg Bangs Val Zurblis Pat Hanifin Tim O'Reiley Bob Mader Maureen Flynn Marti Hogan Kathy Mills Barb Breitenstein Don Reimer Martha L. Fanning Fred Herbst Tom Byrne 
Editor-in-Chief Managing Editor Asst. Managing Ed. 
Executive Editor 
Executiv<> Editor 
Editorial Editor 
Features Editor 

Exec. News Editor Campus Editor 
St. Mary's Editor 
News Editor News Editor Copy Editor 

Production Ed1tor Sports Editor Contributing Editor 
Tuesday, March 8, 1977 

j 
.The Jimmy Carter Show 

like it or not, there is a strong possibility that Notre Dame's commencement this year could be accurately referred to as ·The Jimmy Carter Show by seniors unhappy with its outcome. It is undoubtedly a great honor to have the President of the United States give the commencement address. But instead of an occasion intended to honor 2160 diploma recipients for their academic accomplishments, this year's commencement may become one solely honoring an American president. 
Already many factions of the University community are clamouring for seats on May 22, even though no decisions pertain­ing to commencement seating will be made before Aprill. Students (non-seniors), the families of graduates, administrators, faculty, staff personnel, the spouses of all these people, plus the local and national press and politicians all want to attend the ceremonies. Last year, even without a presidential visit, . the ACC was packed with an overflow crowd. In view of Carter's appearance this year, seating tickets will have to be distributed for the first time since 1969 when the ACC first opened and commencements started to be held there. 
Obviously, some people will be dis­appointed by being excluded from the' ceremony. The University will soon have the unpleasant duty of determining who those people should be, and telling them to stay home and watch the affair, on television. Our hope is that they keep the interests of the graduating seniors as their number one priority and that they do not try to keep everyone happy by giving out tickets to everyone, tickets more properly distributed to the families of graduating seniors. The desire of a family member to see his or her relative graduate from here is more important than the desire of any one faculty spouse, for instance, to see President Carter in person. 
Notre Dame's commencement is a valuable part of the entire University experience. It is a time set aside by faculty, administration and families to honor the graduating · seniors with diplomas. We are proud that President Carter will join in the ceremony by giving the commencement address, but we hope that a proper focus will be placed on the students who worked four years for this honor. And after the sacrifices they have made, we hope that it will not be the families of these students who are left to watch a possible Jimmy Carter Show on television. 
'------_:.--~_;_....::..;::_:...:..:::.:..:.:......:...:.:....__:_..:_....=__:...:..:...::....:...:.....:..:..:....----.....:..__:_.....:___:,.:..:.._::::__=:=::§:§...~----__J 
Dear Editor: 
The forced retirement of Dr. James P. Danehy is yet another example of the lack of communica­tion that exists between the stu· dents, faculty, and adrr.inistration at Notre Dame. 
I reaiize that the "mandatory rettrement" clause in the Faculty Manual intends only to insure that the Notre Dame faculty be of the highest caliber possible. It is ari. undisputed fact that mental alert­ness and physical dexterity inevi­tably decline with age. However, the point at which the aging process hegins to interfere with competence varies greatly with each individual. Obviously, to be an effective educator, one must be in complete control of his mental facilitic~. He must he competent in his tield. 
interested in doing what is in the As far as Dr. Danehy is con­best interest of Notre Dame 
cerned, I feel that he is one' of the students. , most competent teachers on cam­Dr . .1. Freeman suggests that it pus. Having taken his organic 
is important to have a "constant che~istry class, I found him readily infusion of new, young people"available and quite concerned with into the Science Department. It is the students' progress in his 
my opinion that change should not course. This semester, he offers be made just for the sake of weekly extra-help sessions, dealing change. Why should_it be necess­personally with students to insure 
ary to replace one of the most competent teacher presently on campus? 
I appeal to the students of Notre Dame to let the faculty and administration know that the forced retirement of Dr. Danehy jlt this time would be a gravr loss to the Notre Dame community, by signing the petition regarding this issue presently in circulation. 
Joe Grandt> 
DOONESBURY 
54Y, GINNY, «!HERE 15 CL.YOC, /INY/1/AY? WASN'T HE 51JPPOSEO TO 88 JOININ61JS? 
/ 
I OON'T 51/PPOS& 
IT's "ROOTS'~ RELATE/).. 
I 
by Garry Trudeau 
YEAH, BUTHE SAIO HE HAO 70 GeTOVCI? 70 THE LIBRARY. HE ANP 8BVNY HAVEA 
NW l:lf?IJJEO:. 
F/GU/?&0 OIJT11/HO Yt:VR FIITHER IVA$ YET, ay~ '? IV/ITCH \ WX!R MI'HITH,
MAN! I 



A Message to Bender 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiim i k e richte r 
Basketball is a good game. 
Chess is another good game. Our 
conception of "good" games are 
games that pit one player, or one 
team of playrs against another. 
There's a move and a counter· 
move, and action and a re-action. 
That's how any good game is 
played. Both sides have a stake in 
the action and the object is to win. 
Elections and political processes 
are like games, but the political 
processes shouldn't involve the 
secrecy and surprises that come 
when people work against each 
other. The political· process, es­
pecially at the University level 
should be a different kind of game 
where the players work together 
towards a common good. The 
presidential election is, over for 
now. For better or worse, Dave 
Bender has won. We have a new 
president and perhaps a new game. 
As the dust clears there will be time for everyone to reflect. This period of reflection, like a lull before the storm should be a time of preparation. It should be used well. In this time before sharp­edged enthusiasm has a chance to wear against the grindstone of day-to-day routine, there will be time to think and plan. This time should be treasured by Dave and Tom and used well because now is the time to clarify and sharpen the visions that brought them into office. 
Last Tuesday The Observer edi­torial editor commented on the election in his ~sua! way, "We've 
I beg to differ. 
Contrary to Mr. Hanifin's same old 
Monday's Observer, the Hardy­
Mclver platform stuck out from the 
rest. 
Many of the platforms were offering better parties, new budget plans, 'lnore social space, and one even offered better apathy. Valerie Hardy had this to say. "Just as student government plans armory parties, it should plan boycotts of products from corporations that exploit workers in America and throughout the world. Just as it conducts studies concerning pa­rietals, it should conduct studies of the corporate responsibilities of the companies in which the Univer~itv invests our nwney. by compiling ;. 
stock ponfolio of the llnivers:ty. Just as it sends student lohhi<'s· to legi-:late ror a lower drinking ag,·. it should send ~tudcnts to lobbl ror rriM>II reform and imprnvl'd it<>Uo.; 
ing, medical care and education for 
everyone." This was and still 
stands as a call to action. 
Valerie Hardy has expressed a point of view rarely seen on university campuses today. Her percentage of the vote in the elections, (7.9) shows that there is a sizable number of students (332 to be exact) who thought enough of her suggestions to vote for her. This reservoir of talent shoutd not, must not be shut down. It appears dear to me that there are enough students (30 if even 10 ·percent of those voters became involved) to make some valuable steps toward doing something politically and socially in that ''great big world out there." At the same time they'd be raising that "abominable" level of consciousness of students here, (which would be quite an achieve­ment in itself). This University is a storehouse of information, know­ledge, and learning. So why don't we take advantage of it? Why don't we use it? 

My message to Dave is this; at Notre Dame, students h.?.·;c. dte resources to start u vigorous organ­ization towards social reform. The CILA-sponsored government­involvement workshop given by NETWORK two weeks ago was a resounding success. Valerie Hardy got 332 votes. There are people here who are willing -to work towards social reform. Notre-Dame is a big-name university. What we do here, if publicized correctly, could cause a splash on the national scene. 
The nay-sayers say we can't change the world. O.K., fine, but knowing that we can't change the world shouldn't stop us from seeing how .much we can change. 
We have an opportunity here. We have the information we need, or we can get it. The people wilting to work, (quite and important resource), we have. The spark plug. the main volunteer, (Valerie Hardy volunteered by running on her platform and again when asked permission to volunteer her.), we have, What we don't have is a structure within which we can work to organize our show and get it out on the road. I hope that Dave Bender and Tom Soma will use this beginning time of excite­ment to its fullest ·before it wears down. I hoP': that they will know how to u-;c the volunteers to their fullest. We nt"ed a structure in student go···'''•llliCilt which will tap the n-sou" ..., we have here. Dave lkndcr. ·, ··-:-·lllr rnnn•. 
~-----~--~-------~--.---~-­
Letters from Abroad by DAVE GILL 
Mexico: We Made AMovie 
First, there was living in a totally new and foreign environment. Then came the dedication of a basilica to the Virgin of Guadalupe. Now, the latest "fad" among Notre Dame and St. Mary's students in Mexico City is working as extras in the Universal Pictures production of the televi­sion-movie "The Rhinenamm Exchange." 
The opportunity arose when the adjunct director of the group, Joe Corpora, rented a room from an American woman by the name of Ruth Jason, who moved to Mexico almost 19 years ago. After doing some of her own "acting," Mrs. Jason began to recruit extras for Mexican and American movie companies when they needed them. The business grew and now Ruth has over 900 names and descriptions in her files, including those of 19 students in the Notre Dame's Mexico City, Foreign Studies Program. 
When Universal Picturescameto Mexico to make "The Rhinemann Exchange" because of financial reasons, they looked up Mrs. Jason for the sole purpose of finding over 1,200 people. The movie is a World War II picture, involving numerous 
people  that  need  German  and  other  
anglo-saxons appearances.  
This is where the  Notre Dame  group  

came in. "I wanted a part in their year in Mexico to take part in the making · of 
a movie." remarked Mrs. Jason. So, nine stude.nts and their adjunct director ,ljeadily agreed to become part of television history and launch their professional acting 
careers. Among their parts, Claudia 
Sandroni played by a nanny with her 
charges in what was supposedly Central 
Park Zoo, but in reality was the Mexico 
City Zoo. Cathy Piha was a passerby in the 
same scene. Paul Grzybowski, Bruch 
Blanco, and Dave Gill were sailors on 
leave, acting in the same shot. 
Piha related, "It wasn't boring like some of the others thought. I really enjoyed talking to the other extras in the scene, whether in English or Spanish. It was a lot of fun." 
Karl Blette, Kristin Darden, and Monica \ ostello held different opinions. "It wasn't as glamorous as you might expect," explained Darden, "becuase there wasa lot of standing around and not doing anything for an hour or two. And when they shoot a scene 20 times, it tends to get a little tiring. It was an interesting experience, though, because I had never done anything like that before." 
"It was fun.to see what a movie was like in the production states, but I'd hate to be an actor, even if I was paid as much as a star, because there are times when you just stand around," stated· Blette. 
Bruch Blanco throughly enjoyed himself. "It was my first time in a movie and that in itself is an experience. Plus, we got to meet and talk to the stars just like regular people. It's different than anything I've ever done before. One thing for sure, it made me look at extras from a different point of view.'! 
"The experience of a lifetime, at times a kind of drawn out, at others, but I enjoyed it. I'd sure do it again," described Don Dilenschneider who played a pedestrian in his particular scene. 
The television movie, which is being produced for Universal by Robert collins. 
The Cinema in South Bend by DAVID O'KEEFE 
TWiliGHT'S lAST GlEAMING: Generation Gap· 
Directed by Robert Aldrich Starring Burt Lancaster, Charles Durning, Richard Widmark 
Somewhat imaginative, and somewhat conceited, Twilight's Last Gleaming offers the unlikely notion that disclosure of the intentional protraction of the Indochinese war by Washington could inspire a president's assassination, and the all too likely prospect of Burt Lancaster as a cold-hearted hero. It is a menagerie of carefully-disguised movie cliches wedged into a rather unique story, a disorganized blend of the paranoia of the SO's and the 
CIA-FBI-Imperial  Presidency  thing  cur­ 
rently plaguing Americans.  ~  
Lawrence  Dell  (Burt  Lancaster)  is  a  

former Air Force general whose political leanings an.d persistence made him a thorn in the Pentagon's side, so they railroaded him on a murder charge and got him 30 years to life. 
Recently paroled, accompanied by two escaped cons named Augie (B!lrt Young) and Willie (Paul Winfield), seething with revenge and obsessed wnh ''the trm.. about Vietnam," Dell siezes a missile silo at an ICBM base in Montana. The price for not launching nine Titan missiles armed with nuclear warheads? Ten million dollars (for the mercenary accomplices, of course), transportation by Air Force l to "a country 'of our choice,'' and the President as a hostage, who will, upon his release, disclose the contents of NSC Document 9759 to the American people. 
There is a considerable amount of excitement and intrigue ·in high places as a result of these demands, as one might well expect. The film fails not at all in depicting the anguishing decisions that mul>t be made, or in revealing startlingly real characters. The best performances by far are turned in by grizzled Hollywood veterans playing a variety of Cabinet types with different political and moral leanings: Melvyn Douglas, Joseph Cotton, and Leif Erickson. But the most convincing and dynamic interpretation is Charles Durning's portrayal of President David Stephens, a man who must cope with an 
Tuesday, March 8, 1977 the observer 5 
who also wrote the screen adaptation, will premiere on March 10 and run for five successive Thursdays on NBC's "Bestsellers" series. 
The movie is based on Robert Ludlum's book by the same title, which spent nine seeks on the New York Times bestseller list. The plot involves an exchange between Germany and the United States during World War II for offensive secrets that both sides need desperately to continue the war and, hopefully, lead to victory. The book is well-writen with plenty of excitement and intrigue for espionage lovers. Ludlum keeps the reader guessing as he switches locales from Germany to New York City to Spain to Washington and finally to Buenos Aires where the exchange is to be made through an exiled German Jew who does not harb-or hate feelings toward his fatherland, but only a lust for power and money which this treasonous exchange will bring him. 
The Chicago Tribune explains best, ''A supurb plot filled with exciting chases, double drosses, secret codes, and beautiful women...a picture of the beastliness underlying the espionage world, a world of brillance without scruples, brutality with­out restraint...Robert Ludlum passes the highest test of fiction with flying colors!'' 
In the television production, Steve Collins has the starring role_. He has played in other spot performances in T.V. and the theatre, but will be best known for his role as Hugh Sloan, the resigned treasurer, in "All the President's Men." Lauren Hutton, the Revlon model, is the leading lady. Collins and Hutton have an excellent supporting cast, including Henry Fonda, John Huston, Claude Aikens from NBC's "Movin' On," Werner Klemperer, who played Colonel Klink on "Hogan'~s heroes," Larry hagman, known from "I dream of Jeannie," and nine students and one adjunct director from the well-known grounds of Notre Dame du Lac. 
impending nuclear catastrophe, a shocking disclosure, the intricacies of the military and intelligence communitie.s, and the immense personal pressures and emotions that are not characteristically thought of as "Presidential.'' Durning makes the fears and confusions and doubts potent and vivid, yet unobtrusive. 
Where the film does fail is in its ignorant ap13raisal of the impact of the disclosure. That the war was intentionally dragged on to demonstrate an invincible American will to· the Russians, to prevent total war through limited war, is no great blow to a calloused American conscience that would just as soon forget. The more the film insists otherwise, the more ii cripples itself. 
Director Aldrich does an adequate job of handling a taut, literate screenplay. but his split-screen mania is an unforgivable distraction. On the other hand, Lancaster can be forgiven for his confused handling of a poorly-drawn character. We never really know who Lawrence Dell is, or precisely why he is doing these nasty things. Lan{!aster's Dell is a sinister synthesis of Mister Rogers and Mister Spock, a cold. articulate technician capable of gentle aphorisms and indignant dia­

tribes. In that sense, he typifies the film. 
Record Reviews by TED TWARDZIK 
BIG BEAT 
(The album you -probably 
I 
I 
I 

neuer heard of, by The Sparks.) 
Don't feel too ignorant if you've never 
heard of Sparks. Few Americans have. 
The band was founded in 1969 by two 
brothers from Los Angeles and recorded 
two albums for Bearsville, the first 
produced by Todd Rundgren. These were 
spectacularly unsuccessful, so the brothers 
moved to England, enlisted a new British 
band and became major stars in England, 
Europe, and Scandinavia. Their formula 
was to perform highly mature songs in a 
teenybopper style which didn't catch on in 
disco-happy America. In order to dent the 
huge profits possible in America, their 
latest album. Big Beat, abandons this 
approach in favor of a heavier sound. This 
shift was assisted by recording the album 
in America with a completely American 
band. 
Big Beat is a loud, energetic, profession­
al record with raucous guitar and promi­.nent drumming in best Led Zeppelin fashion. The tunes are typically commer­cial and memorable. And the lyrics are typically off-beat and clever, being primar­ily about human relationships in which the 
singer is the proverbi~l born loset:. 
The one major drawback to th is album is 
the distinctive lead singing of Russel Mae!, 
whose high, almost feminine voice made 
Sparks the darlings of twelve year old girls 
all over Europe, but does not hold up will in 
this new context. 
This disadvantage is particularly evident 
on the first track, "Big Boy". It's 
apparently Sparks' conception of what will 
sell in the U.S., since it's the heaviest of all 
the cuts, and was selected as a single. The 
lyrics, about a golden boy who continually 
thwarts the singer's plans, are also sadly 
heavy-handed and ocmbine with the incon­
gruous vocals to produce a poor represen­
tation of the total album. Only one other 
song suffers from similar lyrical dullness; 
the remainder are exceptional. 
Some of the topics considered are a 
solution for aging mates ("Throw Her 
Away and Get a New One"), involuntary 
non-conformity ("I Want to Be Like 
Everybody Else"), sexual preferences ("I 
Like Girls"), and racial preferences 
("White Women"). Throughout, the 
words are among the most indelligent, and 
the melodies among the most accessible in 
all rock. The bubblegum overtones will 
unfortunately scare off many "mature" 
listeners who are missing a sophisticated 
and entertaining record. 
Logan Center: Helping the Less-Fortunate 
by SCOTT APPLEBY 
At graduations, presidential dinners and the like, one of Fr. Hesburgh's favorite topics is the substantial involvement of Notre Dame students in various· South Bend public service projects. He speaks of the overwhelming commitment of the student body, citing the fact that over half of the undergraduate population is parti­cipating in volunteer work in the com­munitv. 
Of the various schools. hospitals; a-nd day-care centers which attract altruistic Domers, Loga11 School for the Retarded is perhaps the most well-known. A member of the South Bend Community School System, Logan School alone boasts of volunteer staff of two hundred, 'most of -which come from Notre Dame and St. Mary's. Students assist in activities ranging from classroom tutoring to athletic ·supervision. During the course of a weekday. these student aiiles· teach the 
are employed. They apply skills learned at the School which simultaneously relieves the industry of "busy work" (placing nuts and bolts in a package .for mailing is a prime function of the employees) and provides a practical and gratifying outlet for the retarded struggling for a sense of self-esteem. 
The Logan School system is divided is divided into two age groupings: the "youngster's school" (ages 4-18) which incLudes children living in the city as well as in Northern Indiana State Hospital, and the older group (18 and above). many of which are regulars at Logan Industries. Care for those· residing in the hospital-­many of whom are older men and women, severely or pr,ofoundly retarded--is far from economical: whereas the state of Indiana doles out approximately $10,000 annually to keep a prison convict in maximum security confines, private and public funds applied to Logan Center must O\'ercome increasingly exorbitant prices: to provide medical care for each indi\'idual and childlike cognitive development; and, finally, the moderately afflicted, those slow learners with either limited attention span or hindersome physical deticiencies. 
Confronted with a challenging task in the face of these difficulties. the Notre Dame-St. Mary's' volunteer often finds their experience at Logan School to be trying, rewarding, and. most importantly, significantly maturing. Junior Ed May stresses the importance of individual attention and the considerable patience that goes with it: "I've been working mostly as a teaching assistant in a class of eight. Even with a low student-teacher ratio. it's difficult to give the children the proper attention they deserve. While one child might be able to solve a ·puzzle after three examples, it might take anothei child fifty repetitions before he can make sense · of the exercise." 
Essential to this type of close supervision is one's, ability to maintain a proper perspective on the situation. to ret1ect an attitude of concern without betraying participate as if you were one of the gang, because, ideally, you are." 
Certainly, volunteer work at Logan Center is not for everybody. Many of the "adults" are simply overgrown children in appearance, and many are pathetically deformed_ and handicapped. (Although some handicaps are not immediately apparent. For example, one junior varsity basketball coach pleaded, fumed, and cajoled with one young boy to practice his simple backboard shot from the right side of the hoop; after three weeks of exasper­. atingly futile efforts, the boy's mother informed the coach that her son was blind in his right eye, explaining his poor performance with the shot.) 
Along with these obvious difticultie~ comes the !.Ubtler and more haunting problem--is the child actually learning. progressing. benetitting in the least fron. the exercises and activities? More ofter. 
the ca!.ual observer might we!: .1I
than not.  
conclude  that,  in  truth.  many  of  tl•<  
retarded  are  simply "going through  th<  .,  
motions" without actually appreciating--or  ,  
even enjoying--the time and effort excrteG by the teacher or supervtsor.  1jl' 
·But,  to  the  dedicated  and  insightful  ·  

children basic secretarial skills (stuffing -patient at NISH costs a booming $30,000. ill-placed pity. Bill Flanagan, a student student volunteer. the time and cftort pa:. 'I 
business envelopes, for example), coach Such financial burdens are at least volunteer in recreation, comments: "You off it1 the most valuablt: and touchi1~o~ i 
basketball and sw;mming fundamentals, partially explained when one.considers the have to be fairly tough-minded in handling communication possible--the cxcitr•men: 
and accompany the children to extra-different illnesses and degrees of retarda-both the adults and the younger kids: and giglcs of delight mirrored in ''"' face~ 
curricular interests such as Scouting and tion prominent in most patients Gener-otherwise, they quickly perceive that you and \'<•ice;, of \he children of I ogan rcntl'r. 
"local employment." ally, there are three dispositions in the· are taki11g a pitying, condescending stance ThL·ir -,impk understanding of love i~ 
"Local employment" consists of time mentally retarded: the severely afflicted, h'ward them. and they deeply resent it." pnhap., ihc mo~t pn>found tribute to that spent at Logan lndu\trie~. a subsidiarv of those renderedmute.deformed and nearly Ba~kC'tball supervisor Tim Collins goal of ~tndt•J1( L'\lllt'l'l'll and im·,,J\'t'lllL'Ill Logar. School at which the more rnai ure immobile by their handicap; the profoundly .-laboratC''-on thi-, point: "Be enthusia.,tk. \\ hi,_·h maJ,,·., Fr. He.,hurgh~~and all of '1 adult~. and young people from till' Center afflicted_ tho'>c v. it~ limited w ordination , Encourage. don't disparage. Above all. liS--SO Vl'l'.\' proud. __l
-----------------------------1
~========~~==~==== 

------------~~----~­
Tuesday, March 8, 1977
the observer
6 

New York. N_ Y 10017
Students acquitted 

Yes: I am interested in a non­

Cheerleading guidelines established 
by Maureen Sajbel Staff Reporter 
l,be proposed tryout regulations for the 1977-78 Notre Dame cheer-leading squad have been released and are available for prospective cheerleaders in the LaFortune Student Activities Office. 
The proposals define the try-out process,requirements, restrictions and quotas. They were written in order to clearly explain the pro­cedures to students from both St. Mary's and Notre Dame who wish to try out for cheerleading for the 1977-78 academic year. 
The regulations at this time are tentative, but will be finalized on Friday unless there are strong objections to the stated policies. The proposed regulations were written by Hank Carrico and Becky Bracken, co-captains for the 1976-77 year, and John Reid, assistant director of Student Activ­ities. 
•'They are just to give people an 
Summer engineering project open to high school students 
Eligible high school students will have an unusual opportunity this summer to investigate an impor: tant urban problem with research engineers. 
Twenty students will be chosen to study the pollutive effect of sewer and storm water discharges into rivers during a six-week pro­gram in environmental health en­gineering at Notre Dame. 
In a project combining group study and individual research, participants will learn how engi­
[continued from page 3] students had complained about the student's behavior to University officials and accused him of "expos(ing) himself while urinat­ing into a whiskey bottle three different times." After meeting with the alleged offender and the two St. Mary's students, Riehle suspended the student for the remainder of the semester. The student acknow­ledged his guilt in the case but appealed the penalty to the Board. The board decided that although the student's actions were "highly undesirable" they were not "intentionally or overtly lewd or indecent." Overriding the sus­pension penalty, the board decided on certain "sanctions" to serve as punishment instead. The "sanctions" translated into several conditions which the student would have to obey. First, the student, who had previously resided off-campus, was to move back into a residence hall. He was placed on disciplinary 
I 
~­
1 I 
! 
idea of what to expect," Bracken and Purdue to judge. The reason stated. "It's very tentative and to for the outside judges is to be as be taken as a set of guidelines. We fair as possible to all prospective thought they were fair." members of the squad. 
Several changes have been made Also clarified in the new regula­in the regulations concerning the tions are abilities and areas of size and selection of the squad. judging, elections of co-captains, The number of cheerleaders will be qualifications of candidates, and cut from 15 to 13. This number safety regulations. includes 6 male cheerleaders, 6 The only quota specified requires female cheerleaders, and one at least one female from each leprechaun. The reduction in size school be among the six women was a financial consideration. cheerleaders. "The extra two people would easily Students who want to try for a cost another $2000,'' explained Sue cheerleading position are strongly Olin, co-captain for 1977-78. encouraged to pick up a list of the 
Because of unforeseen problems, regulations before Friday. The last year's tryouts did not follow regulations and tentative sign-up the stated regulations for judging. lists may be found in the Student To eliminate these problems and Activities office on first floor of the possibility of bias, a second LaFortune, or by contacting Reid. change in the regulations was "The sign-up is not a commit­made to specify that the judges for ment, just an indication of inten­tryout sessions· must be from tion," Reid stated. "We'd like to outside the ND-SMC community. get an idea before break of the The 1977-78 squad co~captain, Pat number trying out. We also invite Bergin, said that they hoped to get comments on the regulations." cheerleaders from Indiana State Reid emphasized that the list of 
neers approach water pollution 
Department of Civil Engineering.
control problems. According to 
Applicants must be entering their 
project director Dr. Lloyd H. 
senior year next fall and should 
Ketchum. the fact that the result 
have completed algebra, geometry,
of their investigation could be 
trigonometry and chemistry.

useful to the South Bend commun­
Interested students may direct in­
ity ".should add an exciting dimen­
quiries to Ketchum Assistant Pro­
sion to the project for the 
fessor of Civil Engineering, Univer­
students." 

sity of Notre Dame, Notre Dame,
There is no tuition for the 
Indiana 46556, or phone 
program, which is supported by the 219/283-6173.
Student Science Training Program 
r-----------------•---~

of the National Science Foundation Mail to: 
and conducted by the University's National Sports Marketing Bureau 360 Lexington Ave. 
playing career in sports. En­probation under the scrutiny of a closed please find 
chaplain and was confined to 
ASK CHARLIE 
campus "from the day he moves on campus until the last day of final Hypertension (high blood pressure) aHects 23 exams, including the period of m1llion Americans. It is an insidious disease Thanksgiving break." Other con­often without· causing any-symptoms -& for ditions were that he would engage which there is no known cure. It silently strains in some kind of manual labor and the cardiovascular system, increasmg the 
would have to make two follow-up 
deposition of fat, overtaxing the heart, and 
reports to the board. 

damaging the kidneys. Early detection and 

regulations was only the first draft and was open for changes. 
The co-captains for the 1977-78 year are Fat Bergin and Sue Olin._ The remaining 11 members of the squad will be selected sometime during the week of March 28. The exact dates will be announced when the number of people wishing to try out is known. The present cheerleaders and leprechaun, with the exception of Bergin and Olin, must go through the selection process again. An orientation meeting for everyone interested has been set a 7:30 p.m. on March 24 in the LaFortune ballroom. 
"No previous cheerleading experience is required, but it would be helpful," Bracken said. She added that "gymnastics would help, and enthusiasm plays an important role." 
•• if •• : people keep •• 
• telling you to • quit smoking • cigarettes : 
don't listen _. .•• they're • 
• probably trying to • 
•. trick you : 
•. into • 

•~:••::~~:::AN~ 
CANCER 
• _ -· SOCIETY ® 
. ­

OF INFORMATION ON JOBS IN SPORTS ADMINISTRATION 
"For people interested in the field, the Sports Administra­tion Guide and Directory offers some tips on schooll? and job hunting_" 
This quote from a Career Profile editorial in Money Magazine indicates the impor­tance of getting the right start in the pursuit of a career in sports administration. National Sports Marketing Bureau has just published the 1977 edition of the Guide It explains what kinds of non­playing jobs are available. where to find them and how to go about getting them_ The Directory has been· ex­panded to cover addresses and names of contacts in arenas. minor league base­ball and major college con­ferences as weiI as every 
major sports league. 
Mail this coupon with your 
payment today_ Get the right 
start towards a career in 
sports administration. 
$5.00 for the 1977 Sports Administration Guide and Directory. Price includes postage and handling. New York residents add sales tax. 


the excursion fares will not be Engineering Auditorium Admission $1 
& Samt Mary_·s tu ents. 
~vailable for travel starting on 
........................ 
I4-------------------------------------------,
NOTic.Es . 
n,~;b;d-;:;;~m-h";;;-;-f-;-;:;n, Classz:~z·ed Ad ---------------;a.-------~-----~\
A course of, act1on...A1r For~e unfurnished. Fenced yard. Near S Female roommate $50 plus utilities. How do we get mto messes. like I
!/j 

ROTC. If yo~ v~ got two academ1c Memorial Hospital. Reasonable for Pam-6261 after 5. 288-7468. these'? You'll be a me 

T-he-si.m.shone, temperatures rose, and basketballs joined frisbees, . footballs and baseballs on campus quads and courts yesterday. . : [Photo by Paul Clevenger]\ 
Amtrak announces new excursion discounts 
Amtrak has announced sav­ings of as much as 25 percent with new 30-day, round-trip coach ex­cursion fares on its Chicago-
Boston/New York train the "Lake Shore Limited" and its Chicago-New York/Washington train the "Broadway Limited" from March 15 through May 31. 
The Lake Shore Limited serves Chicago, Boston and New York via Cleveland and Albany. The Broad­
way Limited serves Chicago, New York and Washington via Pitts­burgh. The flew economy round-trip fares will be available for long distance travel in coaches and slumbercoaches between many 
cities on the routes of both these ,_w_.i,.;ll,.;~;.:o.::ll;.:o.::w_t;;;.·n...t_h_e...,..d_in...;;i_ng~a-r_e...a_.____:D:..::is:.::c.:..:lo:.::s:.::u:.:..re=-A.:....:.ct:.........::o:.:..f_l:_9--7....:5_w_i_ll_b_e---,a 
trains. The excursion discount will apply only to the basic coach charge. It will not apply to the additional 
accommodation charge used to figure the fare for single or double
slumbercoach rooms. · The excursion fare tickets are 
good for 3o days in addition to the 
date of travel in the case of reserved space and for 30 days in
addition to the date of sale in the case of unreserved space. Also, 
I 
I years remammg 1n school (graduate or undergraduate) lo?k into our AFROTC programs. Its one way of planning for a good future. Get all the details today. Call 283-6635. -----=----------­
I 
Typists Needed to type results of National Survey on to computer data 1
cards. Hourly pay. Call Mike at 288-0088 after 6pm. 
I 
MALYGRADS. LAST DAY FOR A 
MORRISSEY LOAN IS FRI. MAR. 
1 
'No LAST APPLICATION DATE IS M_A_R_C_H_10_.--------­
I 
Why Pay $10.00 for Personall·zed astrological birth charts from imper-I sonal computers'? Detailed typedprofiles-$5.00! Call Pat 7339. -----~--------­
I MORRISSEY LOAN FUND. $20 • 150. 1 day wait. 1 percent interest. 
I 
Due in 30 days. LaFortune Base­ment. M-F. 11:15-12:15.
---------------· 
NEED TYPING? Executary Inc.
1
Professional Typing Service 85 cents a P<:~ge. 232-0898.I --------------­
I 
Will teach you flute in your spare time. Caii_Beth 8112. 1--------------­I 
USED BOOKS. BOOK BARN. 1 mile north of Notre Dame. 272-5520 
Accurate, fast typing. Mrs. Donoho 
I ~~~~:_~~~~~:_!~~-­
1
I 
California Street String Band tor hoedowns, parties, dances. Call 288-7732. 
1
The Contest Place Training Stables, 342 Ironwood Drive, Niles, Michi· I 
I 
gan, is now accepting applications tor year round boarding. Indoor arena: heated b~x stal_ls, grooming, exerc1se, and Gam We1ght or Thoro-Blood feed supplement all ava1lable from $90.00 · $125.00. Please,
I~~~~~~~~ 683·446?..:..-~-\..a~t:_Lady's gold wlltch. Could be 
March 31, April 1, and in the period between April 7 and April 11, inclusive, as these are tradition­ally peak travel days. 
Dean'S liSt frosh tO be recognized 
Freshmen who made the dean's honor list fall semester will receive 
individual recognition at a convoca-the Industrial Savings and Loan tion tonight at 7:30 p.m. in the Association failed to itemize their Center for Continuing Education statement in accordance with fe­auditorium. Fr. Theodore Hes-deral regulations which require burgh, University president, will loans to be categorized by type. be the main speaker. A reception Whether the Home Mortgage 
Cinema 77 presents 
Sin~__ ing_ in the Rain 
~ 

Starr·lng Gene Kelly Tues. & Wed. March 8 & 9 
7.·30 and 10·.00 pm 
On All Merchandl·se To N t D 
. o re ame 
• ' S d . 
married student. Quiet neighbor­hood. call 232-9128. 
One tour and one six bedroom house with fireplace tor rent starting September, 1977. Furnished. Also, super-low rates on summer rooms or 
houses. Call 277-3604. 
Renting roor:ns this summer to students. Walk to campus. 2 house, one female, the other male. $55. 
Call 23"3-2613 or 259-7488 after s. 
F d
urnishe 5 bedroom house, walk to campus, renting to students this fall. Call 259-7488 after 5. 
All the comforts of home. Summer rental. Furnished, 4 bedrooms, 2
baths. Washer, dryer, nice largeyard. All utilities included. Near Jeff-Eddy. $200. 234-1972. 
LOST.AND FOUND 
LDst. ·Black key case. If found 7836. 
-------~-------
LDst: Silver medal and chain with Leo zodiac sign between ACC and Grace Monday. Please return if found. Holds great sentimental value. Gary 6871. 
LDst-Green turquoise liquid silver necklace. 11 found, please call 4-5337. 
LDst: SR50A calculator in Engineer­ing Auditorium. Reward. Call Frank, 1486. 
Lost: At ND-Lasalle game, beige sweater coat with brown and gray stripe around mid-section. Please return Call 288-7587 
____:________:_____ 

Tuesday, March 8, 1977 · 
. . the observer 
7 

-
Banks conform to redlining bill in South Bend-Mishawaka area 
{continued from page 1] soned, "people are going to take advantage of it. The few who are not satisfied are the ones who are going to make all thenoiseand get all the notice, and that can lead to adverse publicity." 
In this reporter's recent survey of seven lending institutions in 
'downtown South Bend, the major­ity were courteous and cooperative when ask~d to produce the mort­gage disClosure statement for in­spection. Several loan officers inquired about the reporter's pur­pose and one demanded, "How long do you want to see it?" According to federal regulations, banks and savings institutions must furnish a copy of the state­
ment if requested by mail. They ~:----~ 
:are allowed to impose a "reason-NEED LOW-COST able charge" for reproducing the TRANSPORTATION? data. ~ost lenders, whe? re· We can hel • quested m person, made coptes or Contact· p . 
had prepared c?pies av!lilable for ~-Auto Driveaway Co. 
I 
free. The Amertcan Nattonal Bank 674_9786 
and Trust Co., howeve~. charged DepositRequired $2.50 for a four page statemen~. A L Returned at Destination ~~ mortgage officer at the National --Mustbe 21.-­Bank told this reporter that it was . I 
against the law to make copies of -----·----­
the disclosure. Of the seven, only 
WANTED 
Help us get to the beach!!! 2 girls need a ride to Ft. Lauderdale for break. j Call 7401 
or 3725. 
Wanted: 2 housemates tor ND apt.
1 
immediately, the other starting
11
March · Call Dave or Steff,
283 4113 
-· 
Dayton, anyone? My sister's pipes have frozen and 1have to bring her
matches! Can leave Friday after-M c 11M
noon, arch 11 . a aureen 6825 
or 1715. ----------..----­Wanted: Ride to Louisville Friday, March 11. Call Sue 7938 or Colleen 
7921 
__.:_____________ 
Ride needed to NYC · Westchester 
~~:_~~-~~':.._4~~~---­
Need ride to St. Louis tor spring break. Janet 287·9487. . Need ride to Green Bay area on 
March 11. Happy to share expenses
Call Pahl 6756. 
3 girls need" ride to washington, 
D.C. tor break. Will split up, share expenses. Call Debbie 7906, Jean­nie 7918, Ellen 7874. 
---~----------­
Urgent: 2 girls need ride to Ft. Lauderdale. call 4168 SMC. 
Need J'ide to Pitt for spring break. 
Will share driving and expenses. 
Jack 3493. 

Riders needed to Daytona Thursday
afternoon. Call Chris at 6864. 
Need ride to Chgo. SW. suburb Friday afternoon. Joe 1600_ 
Riders wanted to Colorado. Leaving Friday, March 11. Call 287-1425. 

significant aid in detecting red­lining, is not certain. "The banks Loan Bank-Board which regulates are pretty much out of it," said the S&L's has been another major Tom Meehan, head loan officer at target in the redlining conflict. the St. Joseph Mortgage Co. "The Board has been very reluc­"They're trying to unload their tant to enforce the regulations mortgage portfolios, not fill them which govern these institutions," 
up." Meehan noted that there is he charged. enough money available now that·-----·--....;..;;..,...;;__...,1 the banks need not bother with costly conventional mortgage 
need posters in a 
loans, adding, "You'll find the 
hurry?

S&L' s are taking over the market." "The biggest culprits across the 
country have been the savings and loans," asserted Damian, :'when!· 
savings and loans were set-up by the government expressly for the purpose of making residentia home loans at low interest rat~s. '' 
Special 10% Discount 
I 

Wanted: Desperately need a ride to the Connecticut area tor break. Call 
Tim at 1025. 
I need a ride to the Pitts (Pittsburgh, that is) tor break. Call Pat 1639. 
Part-time lifeguard needed to work with three female lifeguards at Country Club in Memphis, Tennes­see. Must be a male at least six feet 
tall, a good swimmer and responsi­
ble. Call (901) 683-5103 or write 
P.O. Box 205 Lyons Hall for inter­
Vl'ew. 
PERSONALS 
Ml'chael, 
Congrats on the play performance and the chess games.
J 
----~~--------­
To the first beautiful lady -JoAnn your very own personal. Jan 
Don't forget!ND ST. Patrick's Day party at 
Brother Jim's.in sunny Fort Lauder­dale on March 17. 
Dear Julie Marie Jennings, Hope you had a great weekend with Super Zuker. 
Love, Paul 
To Bob Golic: You are so ugly, when you were born, the doctors didn't know which end to slap! Are you still wrestling overweight'?'?'? Chalk one up for our side. 
FT. LAUDERDALE PARTY: MON+ DAY NITE, MARCH 14TH AT THE RIPTIDE ROOM 11. (2 BLOCKS FROM THE ESCAPE) BIG MONEY MURF, THE BUSH, GG, JAY 
BALL. CHAD, AND MIKE AND 
I 

• • ®
•nsly·pr•nls 
the wiz of the printing biz! 
1 00 -11_ x 17 posters Only $10.00 
203 N. Main '5G~n~ 289-6977 
tomght, kiddo. BT 
INEED RIDE TO PITT FOR SPRING BREAK. WILL SHARE DRIVING AND EXPENSES. JACK 3493. 
Kath 
Tha'nk you tor last weekend: show, Emil, sloe Gin, Elks, flower, earring bear and the beautiful morning 
goodbye. Your curb to curb man. 
H.C. 
D L'f d AI
ear 1eguar ,We deserve seconds. Let's sail again. 
I 
Love, B. B. 
-M-I'ch-ae-1C-o-rle-on-e-:------­
I 
Alright, who is she'? If it's the pimp it's OK. You thought I didn't I know you but. I do and I still love 
you. Hap~:/ years. 
1 
To the tallest wild McC woman at 5734 (alias jock-snifter), Is business 
1 
slow lately? Hope your advertising I paid off.... A Pangborn friend. 
I 
Congratulations Mike and Walter. 
I 
LDoking tor the win tonight. 
k.b. "and I.e. 
J 
Dear Jimmy, 
Best wishes on your 19th birthday! I ..Honest! Does an 86 I.Q. increase with age? Love, Jules 
1

I ·-­
Dear Regina Friends, With all our thanks and love, Gail, Valerie and Laura 
I 
Dear Mustard, 1 may not have a memory like Kreskin's but 1still couldn't forget 
1 
)Our birthday. Happy 19! 
B. B. 
1 
P.S. Did you meet any vitamin 
I 
• 
... 

Free le es on The Tr~~;;;de-;:;tal ~~w~~e..:._~~~~-C~~~~-~~~0~~~.:_________ ~~~~E_!~.:_~A~.:_N2~~..:__ :.:~r;;in on the Silver StrPAk last · 1tation Program every Wednes-Lost: Key ring wi\11 3 keys. Room wanted: Ride to Ft. Lauderdale. Tonight be careful of a glassey.pycd 
I 

~~~~~~~--------1024. Call Ray 6842. Please help, leave Wed. Call Tara Carney swooping down on unsus-~ling Depressed? ND-SMC ---------------4-4693 or 4-5463. pecting bars. line. 4-4311 open nights. Neat, accurate typing ot term papers Lost: Blue goose down (oat from -----------------------------­
1

1 

~~~~~~~::_~~~~-.:.!~.:.._ Nickie's last Friday nile. -··tf you wanted: Pictures of monks at USF Desperately need rid•! to anywhere T, I happened to have picked it· up. game. Call Augie 1000. in Florida tor just 1. Will pay well. I don't see how one dirty picture please call Kevin 1631. ----------------Call Rosie-1267: could possible merit my filthy joke. I 
I 
I FOR RENT ---------------Need 2 or 3 rides to downstate ('IY ---------------Besides, it's out of context. Lost: Brown plastic rimmed glasses area. Share usual. Colleen 7591, Janet (the wild <'•le}, G "E-Z" C. Two bedroom house to rent. somewhere on campus last Wed-· Bridget 7628, Steve 32!3. I had a grei'i weekend. Have a --------------­
I 

Summer and or school year. 1012 nesday. Call Karen at 2110. ---------------beertormeon your birthday. Come Notre Dame. st. Mary's womenI Eddy Street. $120 mo. plus utilities. Ride needed to Fort Lauderdale fO'r to Ann Arbor sometime and we'll Attention: Concert Commissioner I Call Oddies Harris at 232-8563. ---------------oreak. j Monica 7870. sneak into a nockey game. ··Jim Speier is now avail.able tor a hot--------------Found -Woman's wristwatch out----------------Low'· date tor ELO! Call 1774 today! I 
. 4 bedr~oms, livi~l! . room: dining side Moreau Hall, SMC. Call Need ride to Omaha tor spring Jeh --------------­room, kitchen. Uti1111es pa1d. $100 4_4231 . oreak. Please call Jim 3345 or Colin P.S. I may e,•en change religions. The AM INALS are coming! And 
I 
'I 

, \ permonth.·Caii·Oscar2nlt1!50,_.~-.:.:..; __ . · • ~ 689 . .. :.o;.;;"~"'-.."'...,. ....~ ...............,~--·----~~kt~ey~r_:_~~~~~~ ___ _ 
·~--~-----------------~--------=--..------------"' 
L___ J 

8 the observer Tuesday, March 8, 1977
-
Irish edge Demons in season finale 
by Fred Herbst The move started the Irlsn on a Balance was the word in the 
Sports Editor six-point streak that gave them a opening half. Notre Dame placed lead they never gave up. With seven players, paced by Williams' Williams and Rich Branning taking ten points, in the scoring column. 
CIDCAGO-Has the four-corner advantage of the spread to drive for DePaul also had seven players offense become the top offense for easy layups or passing off easy score. The balance displayed by Notre Dame's basketball team? scores, the Irish managed to hold both clubs showed in the assist 
Not according to Irish head coach on the rest of the way for the column. The Irish collect 11, the Digger Phelps, whose team used victory. Demons seven. the four-corner offense for the The score was tied five times in But while the Irish outscored, second time in three days to beat the first five minutes of the contest. outrebounded and outshot DePaul DePaul 76-68 last night in Chicago. With the game deadlocked at ten, (from both the field am! free throw 
''The four corners is an impor­Notre Dame took off on a 12-2 line), they also committed more tant part of our offense," Phelps streak to stake themselves to a turnovers, 16-7. admitted. "But it's an offense, not 22-12 advantage halfway through ''I thought that we were over­a stall. We just try to spread things the opening period. anxious in the first half," Phelps out to create certain situations. However, DePaul refused to commented. "That's why we had Tonight we were mixing it up with fold. The Blue Demons used a all of the turnovers." our other offenses to keep DePaul streak of their own to close to Notre Dame placed five players confused." within four, out-scoring the Irish in double figures for the game. 
Adding to the Blue Demons' 8-2. After trading baskets the next Williams led the way with 2b confusion was Irish guard Duck four times down the floor, the points. Bruce Flowers added 12, Williams. As he did Saturday Demons managed to get back-to­Toby Knight and Branning 11 against San Francisco, Williams hack hoops to take a 34-33 lead with apiece, and Bill Paterno ten. victimized his defenders in the 1:41 to play. Dave Corzine paced the Demons spread offense on way to winning A Rich Branning jumper gave with 16 markers. Gary Garland the Wendell Smith Award as the the lead back to the Irish, 35-34. A added 14 and William Dise chipped 
, game's MVP. fast break basket by Bill Paterno in with 13. Phelps called for the four-corner and a Duck Williams bank shot, The Irish outrebounded DePaul offense after DePaul had taken a sandwiched around a DePaul hoop, 49-37. Flowers and Knight had 11 !,g; )!~~#;>,__, -'
·-···" 
two-point lead at 46-44 with 15:30 gave Notre Dame a 39-36 halftime and ten caroms respectively. 
to go in the game. edge. Dave Ba.tton missed the contest with an injured thigh. "Dave could have played tonight," Phelps said, "but I didn't want to risk any 
further injury. He'll be ready for 
The women's fencing team end­Coming up this weekend for the · 
this weekend." 

ed their regular season last week­women is Great Lakes Tournament, 
"This is a tough place to play,"
%Observer 
end defeating both Case Western to be held at Notre Dame. From
the Irish mentor continued. 
8-1, and Miami of Ohio 4-1. This the Irish, both Kathy Valdiserri and 
"Everybody thought we'd be 
completes their first season as a Chris Marciniak are entered.
down, but we came up here and 
varsity team with a 14-1 record. Three years ago, Valdiserri won the
won. We have a good team." 
In individual scores, Kathy individual title at the tournament.
The game brings Notre Dame's 
Valdiserri went 3-0 against Case
record to 21-6, and ends their 
Western, and 1-0 against Miami. Men's Interhall Basketball is not
regular season. DePaul ended 
Cathy Buzard· went 3-0 overall, over yet. Last Sunday night,
Sports 
their year at 15-12. 

w'tile Chris Marciniak, another Flanner III defeated Pangborn II
Notre Dame travels to Philadel­
starter, racked up a 2-0 score. 38-35, in the Division II play-offs.
phia this Saturday to meet Hofstra 
Speaking as captain, Valdiserri Fisher I defeated Zahm I 49-46 in
in the first round of the NCAA 
claimed Notre Dame surprised a lot overtime, in the Division I
Tournament. 

of their opponents this year. "We play-offs. handily beat just about all of the Since both winning teams are teams that beat us last year. With from the losers' brackett, the finals
Playoff tickets to go on sale 
our varsity status, we were really deciding these two divisions will be psyched to go undefeated." played over Tuesday night, March 
Notre Dame ticket manager Mike remaining tickets can then be doubleheader on Thursday. March She attributed the team's tre­8. Busick has announced that tickets purchased by any Saint Mary's 17, and the championship game on mendous record this year to "vast These two games will wrap upfor the first round of the Eastern student. Saturday March 19. improvements in both Cathy · the entire Men's Interhall Basket­Regional NCAA playoffs, to be held Wednesday and Thursday at the There is also a limited supply of Buzard's and Chris. Marciniak's ball Tournament. Division II will 
Saturday, March 12 at the Pallestra same ticket windows, ticket appli­one ticket per person with his or performances, and more attention play at 6:00, and Division I will play 
in Philadelphia, will go on sale cations may be filled out for the her ID. Tickets will be mailed out from our own coaching this year." at 7:00. Both will be in the Pitt. Wednesday morning at the ticket regional games to be held at Cole on Monday, March 14 to the windows on the second floor of the Fieldhouse (University of Mary­address on the application. ACC. The windows will be open land) located at College Park, If Notre Dame wins the Eastern Irish tracksters lose meet from 9 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. Maryland. Regionals, we will move into the 
the triple jump with his mark ofThe price of the tickets are six Applications will be accepted on finals which will be played on by Laurie Reising 44.95 inches.

dollars and includes admission to a conditional basis that Notre Dame Saturday, March 26, and Monday, Sports Writer 
Coach Joe Piane refused to letboth the Notre Dame Hofstra game advances to the Regionals. Should March 28 at the Omni (Atlanta, the loss get his spirits down.

and the Princeton-Kentucky game. they not, checks may be picked up Georgia.) ' The Notre Dame Track team "We're quite disappointed at ourEach student of Notre Dame can at the ticket office upon return from The ticket price of $28.00 per suffered a defeat at the hands of their hosts Drake University Satur­performance, but this is the end of
present his or her ID to purchase spring break. ticket includes both sessions. They day afternoon in Des Moines. our indoor season and we have theone ticket. Wednesday will be the The ticket office for this offer is will be sold at the ticket window on outdoors to regroup,'' admitted
only day of the sale, and tickets will open on Wednesday from 9 a.m. to the second floor of the ACC, The Irish could muster only 42 be sold on a first come, first serve 4:30 p.m. and Thursday from 9 Tuesday, March 24, from 1 p.m. to points to the Drake Bulldog's 87. Piane. The Irish will have to basis as there is a limited amount a.m. to 12 noon. The $20.00 ticket 5 p.m. and Wednesday. March 23, However, the afternoon was not a regroup quickly as they will be 
loss travelling over the spring break to
available to the University. Any price includes three games, · a from 9 a.m. to 12 noon and from 1 total as some outstanding performances were handed in by Alabama where they will be com­
p.m. to 5 p.m. 

individual trackmen. George peting against a strong Crimson
Tickets again will be issued on a 
Tide squad in a dual meet March

Matteo, a junior, broke the school
first come first serve basis. 
18. According to the Coach, "Therecord in the pole vault with his

Because of the limited supply of 
toughest part of our schedule liesscale of 15.675 feet. In the long

tickets that they will receive, each 
jump teammate Dave Betlach took ahead ... We'll do well this spring,
student will be limited to one 
and surprise a lot of people,first place honors with his distance

ticket. Each student may present 
of22 114 inches. Freshman Ahmad hopefully we'll have the momen­
only his or her own ID card. 

Kazimi also came up a winner In tum to carry us into the NCAAs." 
Fencers end perfect season 
Coach Mike DeCicco's fencing season, but they made me a Glass(41-3) with Ed Fellows (26-12) team completed their second con-believer. They proved to me that in the epee. Glass and Sullivan 
·-· secutive undefeated season last there is no better team in the were Great lakes Champions last weekend by convincingly defeating nation." year while Gerard placed third. Case Western Reserve 21-6 and DeCicco continued, "I have been Miami of Ohio 20-7. It is the first around here since 1945 and 1 have The Irish have won the Great time since 1936 that a Notre Dame never seen a Notre Dame fencing Lakes Championships four times team has accomplished this feat. team that has had as much balance. since 1968 and are the favorite to "The kids finished up like they depth, and overall quality." win the tournament this year. started. winning big," noted DeCi-The 23_0 Irish will host the Gre~~~~_:._State, o~e of ~he strongest ceo. "It is hard to credit anyone for Lakes Tournament this· ~eekend teams m'"th-e-H ~~~· will supply the our success. Our people wanted and the NCAA Championships strongest competition he Notre 
another undefeated season. They Dame fencers. The Irish nar worked hard, they earned it, and Ma,rch 24-26. Seventeen teams are defeated Wayne St. 15-12 during now they got it." entered in the Great Lakes Tour-the regular season. 
The Irish also extended their nament with 27 fencers in each • 'Our next goal is to win the Great meet winning streak to 67. The weapon for the men. The tourna-Lakes... explained DeCicco. "We streak which dates back to 1975 is -ment also features 2b women. The t t k th t
wan o eep e same momen urn 

the longest in Irish fencing annals.· top two fencers in each weapon are that we now possess because we 
"I didn't figure that we coulii chosen to compete. hope to be in better shape for the keep the win streak going tlrat Notre Dame enters a strong team NC'AA Championships than we long." confessed DeCicco. "I Wits with Tcrrv McConville (.1.1-X) and were last vcar. Wavne State is ven underestimating my own team. I Pat Gerat:d (.lo-2) in the foil. Tim good. but we arc f;tvorcd to win it thought for sure we'd lose a couptc Mulligan (41-9) and Mike Sullivan as· far as overall depth is con-en Eastern road trip earlier in :l,c (47-1) _in the sahrc. and Tim n·rnnL" 
, 
J 
Don "Duck" Williams was selected as the winner of the Wendell Smith Award as the game's most valuable player. 
Irish Shorts in Sports 






