
du L.ac revisions discussed in forum
The 
with Bender 
Jake Morrl88ey Staff Reporter 
Student Body President Dave Bender outlined the proposed ju­dicial board revisions at the du Lac 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's 

Observer 
forum held last night in the LaFortune ballroom. 
Vol. XII, No. 13 Thursday, September 15, 1977 
"We took du Lac and started over," Bender said. "And at the same time tried to preserve the original framework of it." "We want to clarify it," he added. 
A new proposal for the Univer­sity Judicial Board was also pre­
Students favor 0-C apartments 
. sented. The principle behin4 it, 
by Phll Cackley Senior Staff Reporter 

Added security and more favor­able rental rates are two reasons for a notable increase in the number of students living off campus at Notre Dame Apartments and Campus View Apartments, the two major apartment complexes nearest to campus. 
Campus View has no vacancies for the first time in three years, and Notre Dame Apartments, while reporting eight vacancies as op­posed to last year's no vacancies, has experienced a dramatic in­crease in women student renters. 
Of 96 one or two-bedroom units at Campus View, 91 have been rented to students, said Gayle Warner, assistant to the manager. With two to four persons per unit, there arc over 350 students there. This represents a climb of almost one-fourth from last year, when 20 units were vacant. 
The inclusion of utilities in the monthly rental rate and a change in management were two important causes of the increase cited by Warner. 
Price Option 

This year, students have two options on prices. The first is paying the 1976-77 rates, which are $230 per month plus electricity for 
• a one-bedroom apartment, or $300 per month plus electricity for a two-bedroom apartment. All prices are for a nine -month lease. The second choice available to students is the inclusion of utilities in the rent. The one-bedroom unit then costs $275 per month and the two-bedroom unit is $340 per month, with all utilities included except for telephone. Warner pointed out the advan­tage of including utilities, es­pecially electricity, because heat­ing at Campus View is all-electric. The change in management has probably affected the increase, according to Warner. "We worked closely with the Housing office at the beginning of the year and were in daily contact with them," she said. "We attempted to do things to match up people. We were willing to go farther in acco­modating students," she added. 
Along with the increase in ren­ters, a change in character has taken place among them. "The attitude is different," Warren re­lated. "The attitude is more adult." The students are more responsive to activities being plan­ned by the management and "they' re picking up after themselves. "The general conduct is better," she added. 
More Women 

The number of women students at Campus View has increased to a male-female ratio of one to one, according to Warner and "both sides »-!em pleased with the even split." She also noted the large number of transfer and Bender explained, is to give stu­dents an alternative to the Dean of graduate students, among which apartments, while men were · Students.
are many Jaw students. Most ofthe chiefly concerned about the safety units at Campus View are two-bed­of their cars, she said. If the new proposal is put into room, with a living room, dining The two-bedroom units at Notre effect, students would not be 
room, kitchen, and one and one­Dame Apartments are completely allowed to sit on the Judicial Board. half baths. The units have central furnished and include a living­Instead, a group of 12 "commis­
heating and air-con­room, dining-room, kitchen and sioners" would be appointed by ditioning. In the apartment com­bathroom. The complex itself has either the student government or a plex, there is a room for meetings no additional facilities. member of the administration. 
or gatherings, as well as a pool. 
''Our main goal is to eliminate oppressive authority," Warner said, commenting on the new management, "and just try to help people. ""We don't want to be dictators," she commented. 
Security a Factor 

At Notre Dame Apartments, 34 of the 42 bedroom units have been rented, making a total of over 130 students there. Candace Bullard, resident manager, said that there were no vacancies last year. The decrease was linked by Bullard to a raise in rent by the owners. 
Last year's monthly rental was $260 per month plus electricity for all apartments. This year, the rates have been hiked to $280 per month plus electricity for the lower level units, with upper level units at $300 per month plus electricity. 
"People are more concerned with security," Bullard said, ex­plaining that they feel safer living in an apartment complex than in a house."We've never had a break­in, an assault, or anything of that sort," she stated.She attributed the good record to "good lighting, 
good locks" and patrols which are made in the area by the South Bend 
On university life 
police. The sizable jump in the number of women students from a male-fe­

Committee makes recommendations 

male ratio of one to one last year to a split of four women to one man by David O'Keefe which examine the report med last 
this year --could be linked to the Features Editor May to the Committe to Evaluate concern for security, Bullard in­Coeducation. dicated. Women renters were EDITOR'S NOTE:Thls Is the thlnt Many of the recommendations 
interested in security aspects of the In a three-pari series of articles made by the Committee, stemming from their investigation, were not addressed directly to the issue of
~; ~ f 


coeducation, but to the University
,r44~· ' 

as a whole. 
Although these recommend­ations seemed to lie outside the Committee's assigned jurisdiction, Sr. Miriam Jones disagreed. 
"You can't evaluate co-educa­tion as it is integrated into the University scene," she said, "without evaluating the University itself." 
Such general recommendations resulted in five of the fifteen areas considered by the Committee. 
Academic Guidance In the Freshman Year Program, guidance was judged as "good" or "excellent" by over 60 percent of student questionnaire respondents. In the upperclasses, however, counseling received much lower marks. This finding prompted the Committee to recommend that the colleges and departments find ways to improve guidance for students in upperclasses, which the 
.Attempted beautification fails! These trashcans eyesore are left from last week's urney '77 picnic.
I
L Lisa Becker I 
When a case comes before the J-Board, the defendant would select one juror, the Dean of Students would pick one juror and three others would be chosen at random. It is hoped, Bender said, that this would be "fairer to all concerned." The procedure now requires that students sit on the board along with faculty and ad­ministrators. 
Bender divided his proposal for the du Lac manual into two sections: hall rules and university rules. "Hall rules and regulations would deal with pareitals and hall-related violations," Bender told the sparsely attended meeting. 
"Universtiy level violations would be more serious, such as theft." he said. 
Bender also hopes to standardize the hall judicial board selection procedure. "By having them all chosen the same way," he re­marked, "we'll have qualified people." 

Committee called "uneven." Although there were some sub­creating an 
stantial differences between sexes [Photo by 
in their evaluation, the Committee nevertheless co&tended that "im­
provement is needed in the total situation." Couasellng 
Citing "widespread confusion ... concerning the separate services provided by the Counseling Center and Psychological Services," the Committee recommended a feasi­bility study of the possible consoli­dation of the two organizations. 
The Committee also saw the need for the establishment of an office responsible for "the inte­gration of choices and responsi­bilities involving carreer and family.~' The proposed Office of Career Development would work in cooperation with, but would not be part of, the Placement Bureau. 
Minority Students 
Although the Committee's study involved minority women, their recommendations applied to the issue of minority student represen­tation in the student body as a whole. One recommendation sug­gested that the Office of Admis­sions "continue and expand" its efforts to attract qualified minority students to Notre Dame. 
Another of the recommendations resulted from the Committee's contention that financial aid cur­rently available for minority stu­dents is simply· "not adequate." 
(continued on page 71 

the observer Thursday, September 15, 1977 

,_News Briefs _____ 
t==================-====World Peace treaty drafted 
fEL AVIV, Israel· Foreign Minister Moshe Dayan, carrying a draft peace treaty for the Middle East, sets off today for the United States for indirect, American mediated talks with Arab ' statesmen. Dayan's first round of talks in Washington is scheduled for next Monday and Tuesday. Details of the draft treaty have not been made public, but Dayan and Prime Minister Menahem Begin have made dear in speeches that it calls for an end to the state of war between Israel and its Arab neighbors, full diplomatic and trade relations and open borders. 
Mexico city explodes 
MEXICO CITY· More than a score of bombs exploded in three Mexican cities yesterday and new kidnapings were reported in a wave of violence on the eve of Mexico's independence day celebrations. Twenty-three bombs exploded in Mexico City, Guadalajara and Oaxaca in the span of three predawn hours, and 17 others were found defused by police and soldiers. 


I============================ National 
Powell apologizes 
WASHINGTON -White House Press Secretary Jody Powell apologized yesterday for spreading rumors about Sen. Charles Percy, R-111., a leading critic of embattled budget chief Bert Lance. Powell personally telephoned Percy to apologize. She had told reporters that his action was "inappropriate, regrettable and dumb." Powell said President Carter agreed with the assessment. ' 

Energy plan set back 
WASHINGTON -President Jimmy Carter's energy plan suffered a new setback today as the Senate Energy Committee deleted most of the electric utility rate proposals made by the administration and approved by the House. Without a dissenting vote, the committee agreed to scrap the entire Carter plan for New rate structures for electricity throughout the country. 
,..On Campus Today_~ 
12:30, ­
2:30,4:30, free speed reading lesson, center for continuing & 6:30 pm education. 
7,9:15, film,the day of the rocust sponsored by the dancin' 11 :30pm .. irish, eng. aud., $1 ' 
9-11 pm open stage; nazz 
1 



WEATHER 
Ra~n wi_th a chance ot thunderstorms. Highs mid 60s to mid 70s. Ram w1th a chance of thunderstorms tonight. Lows upper 50s and 60s. Tomorrow partly sunny with a chance of showers and thunderstorms. Highs in the mid 70s. 
Summer abroad program receives student praise 
by Kathryn Jurgens 

Anthony R. Black, professor of History at Saint Mary's, has direct· ed the Saint Mary's . Notre Dame summer abroad program during the last four years. Last summer 66 
students spent two months study·
ing and touring in London and 
Rome. The option of taking classes alon with touring Europe was available to the students. The classes 
offered correlated with the coun· tries' notable landmarks, and also tied in the history of the toured areas. Mary Beth O'Hara, a 
student who participated in both programs, said that she was very
impressed and appreciative of the cources and professors and the way in which they related to her experiences while touring London 
and Rome. 
A day's agenda consisted of a morning tour, a tree afternoon and possible theatre entertainment in the evening. Attendence at the· atrical performances and such were only mandatory if it was needed to fulfill requirements for a course. 
In talking with several students, the most common word found to describe their experiences last summer was "exc_ellent." T_hey all ~rfed t'-nyon~ Wl~h the shghtest
m,._e~;~.~~~.~:.~:.~;~:"'4~.~~~~~~:!~.~~~~ .••~~~MM~~~:~~~~;.;m~t-;i~~~~;:··: ~;~·· ~ o ogra~ er: • J 
-.t. .•(iJ.. 

summer. 
''The professors were great for 

us novices," Julie Breunan stated. 
"They brought us to the important 
historical monuments and we had 
enough extra time to get an idea of 
what we would like to see when we 
go back." "We learned by seeing-and we 
will never forget it," she added. 
The program is again being

offered for this coming summer. 
Pamphlets for the London and 
Rome program will be distributed 
around both campuses within the 
next couple of weeks. 
Poetry contest Open tO StUdentS 
International Publications is sponsoring a National College Poetry Contest, open to all college 
and university students desiring to have their poetry anthologized. 
Cash prizes will be awarded to the top five poems: $100 for first place, $SO for second place, $25 for third place and $10 for fourth and fifth place. The deadline for entry is Oct. 25· 
For rules and an entry forni,
send a stamped, self-addressed
envelope to: International Publications 4747 Fountain Avenue 


'Socrp' wins TV ratings 
LOS ANGI~S [AP] • ABC· TV's sex-spiced "Soap" won Tuesday's television ratings here and in New York and Chkago, but more view-· ers proteste:d against it than praised it, an inital ABC tally showed yeste:rday. 
An ABC sp>okesman in New York called the reaction rela,tively mild, however, considering that even before the !ihow premiered, the network got 22,000 letters de· nouncing it and only four support­
. ing it. 
He said the heaviest protest came in New York , where 311 viewers calle:d to comment, with four times as many protesting against as favoring the show. He said those who denounced the show called it "vulgar" or "not funny." 
In Chicago, ABC got 255 viewer 

Sie1rra Club to me•:tt Sept. ·22 
The MichiBLna Group Sierra Club will meet at 8 p.m., Sept. 22, in the Community Room of the St. Joseph Bank & Trust Company, Town & Country Branch, 3617 East McKin­ley, South Be:nd. 
Bob and Janice Carrico will report on the Aug. 21 outing held at Indiana Dune:s State Park. Plans for the Octobt:r canoe trip down the St. Joseph River will be announ­ced, and. a color slide presentation on the planned Indiana Wilderness Proposal will be made. 
All Sierra Club members are invited to atte:nd the meeting. The meeting is also open to others interested in the Sierra Club. 
Conklin receives Red Cross award 
Richard Conklin, director of In· formation Services at Notre Dame, yesterday re:ceived an award for "outstanding service" from the St. Joseph County Chapter of the American Red Cross. The award was presented at a ceremony honoring those who supported the St. Joseph County Blood Bank Program in 1976-77. 
Conklin, a volunteer on the blood bank's Advisory Committee, has coordinated publicity for the pro· gram since i1ts inception. 
Tuberculin skin test available 
The Coun~)' Health Nurse will be 

administering a tuberculin skin test tomorrow in LaFortune Ballroom, from 9:30 to 11:30 a.m. She will return on Monday at the same time and place to read the test results. There is no charge for the test. 
Since Indiana State Law requires that all persoJtls working with young school childrc~n must have proof of a tuberculin skin test within the past year, students volunteering at St. Marita's Primary Day School should have the test. 
Volunteers should contact Terry Joiner at 1987 if there are any problems witllt the time of the test. 

ERF~ATUM 

The date for the Steve Miller concert in the ACC was incorrectly reported as October 31. The correct date is October 21. 






~*"" ~ 
The Observer 

Night Editor: Paul Scl~appler
Asst. Night Editor: Tracy Herman layout StaH: Bill Devitt, Ph lip Hannigan. Bob Brink 
Editorial Layout: Rosemary
Mills Sports layout: Bob Keen, Paul "wasted" Stevenson Typists: Gwen Coleman, Mary McCormick, Beth Rizzo, Lisa DiValerio, Barb Lang-henry Night Controller: Leigh Tuna­
kan Day Editor: Cathy Connelly C~py R~.ader: Ann Gales, jack ~hz~lato h Lisa Becker 
calls, 155 against and the rest favoring the program. In Los Angeles, 135 viewers called in, 75 against and the rest for, the spokesman said. 
The controversial series, crit· icized by some church groups because it deals with impotence, adultery and homosexuality, drew far fewer complaints in other areas, ABC said. 
It said in Atlanta, "Soap" drew 67 viewer calls Tuesday night, 37 against and 30 for. In Houston, 64 viewers called to comment, 41" against the show and the rest in favor of it. In Silln Francisco, the spokesman said, the ABC-owned station reported 40 calls Tuesday night on "Soap" of which 35 were in protest and five in approval. 
ABC's spokesman had no im· mediate tally of how many of the 195 stations the network serves didn't carry ":Soap" Tuesday night. However, last week the network said 14 affiliates, most in the South and Southwest, said they wouldn't air Tuesday's premiere episode. 
The Observer Is publllllecl Mon· day tllrough·Friday except durtftt exam and vacation perlocls. Tl)e Observer Is publllllecl by t11a students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purclluecl for no per year($1 o per semester) from The Observer. P.O. sox Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. SeCDnd class post..e paid, Notre Dame, Indiana, 4US6. . The Observer 11 a member of tile AIIOCiafecl Prell. All repro· ductlon ~hts are reserved. 

this Friday Spm -? 

18368 St" Rd. 23 
across from the Distillery next to Fox Deluxe 


20 kegs 

Cedar Cottage Productions 
this friday and every friday 5:15 mass & supper 

Can Just ANYONE Purchase From Diamond Import Cpmpany? 
Technically, yes. But then, we're not sure JUSt ANYONE would want to do so. We're not a "jewelry store," so we don't offer watches, silverware., or synthetic stones. Our specialization lies in diamonds and fine gems, 18k gold and platinum jewelry. We also offer appraisal services and estate 
jewelry, which is slightly removed from the norm. 
So, you see, we don't attempt to please just ANYONE. We serve those who appreciate qualify, and the professionalism of a Graduate Gemologist. To those persons. whether they wish to invest $250.00 or $25,000.00 we extend our 
personal invitation. Lobby St. Joseph Bank Building 
South Bend, Indiana Telephone: 287-1427 John M. Marshall's 


CDtamond 9mpoftt Company 
~ •• -Your Source for the Unusual
......,,... 
What college women 


are being pinned / with. 

As a woman ROTC woman en rolled in the paid ...textbook costs student, you'll com­AFROTC 4-year pro· reimbursed ... plus pete for your commis· gram is also qualified $100 a month allow· sian on the same foot· to compete for an ance, tax-free. ing as the m1~n in your AFROTC college schol­A woman's place is 
class. arship which will definitely in the Air 
There are 2-year, cover the remaining 2 Force and our pinning 3·year, and 4·year or 3 years she has as ceremony will be the scholarship prograf11S a cadet. Tuition is highlight of her col­available. A young covered ... all fees lege experience. 
CONTACT Capt. Davis at 283-6634 
Put it all together in Air Force ROTC. 
,, . 
'. t ~.-. 
't"<'; • ~ 

Thursday, September 15, 1977 the observer 
Placement Bureau opens next week 
by Sam Fink 

Washington Hall where they can 7000 such interviews were con­almost all were satisified with the 71 percent for medical schools and 
receive an ample supply of infor-' ducted for the 1500 registered results, according to Willemin. 61 percent for law schools. Also, 
At the beginning of Senior year, many college students find them­selves hectically searching for a future position in either post-grad­uate study or some sort of em­ployment. Here at Notre Dame, students are aided by the efforts of the Placement Bureau. 
The Placement Bureau, located on the second floor of the Admini­mation concerning their futures. At that time, the Placement Bureau will distribute a 110-page manual it has compiled which lists the var­ious 350 employers who will visit the campus this year and advises students on seeking employment. 
"Over 900 students attended these meetings last year. This year 
we hope to have even more," stated Richard D. Willemin, di­
will attend several meetin£S in ~ive employers. Last year a total of 

Moose crashed through wall -obviously alarmed by the disturbance, several Zahm residents admonish a stray moose for sticking his nose in their business. [Photo by john Calcutt] 
by Dave Rumback 

Staff Reporter Buyer Beware l This ancient bit of consumer 
wisdom seems to be the concensus of local insurance experts in coun­seling seniors as they are ap­proached by the annual invasion of life insurance salesmen to the Notre Dame campus. 
Besides advising caution, the experts urge students to take their time, place greater emphasis on options or "riders" than coverage, and to scrutinize the salesman and company as carefully as the policy itself. 
"Above all take your time and get all the information. Don't hesitate to have the salesman come back three or four times before you decide," advised Joe Martello, a part-time insurance teacher at In­diana University (IUSB ). 
According to Martello the big­gest consideration in buying life 
· insurance is the consumer's own needs. The way to determine those needs, Martello said, is to compute how much it would cost to die. "For many students the only expense would be the cost of burial. Obviously the insurance needs of these people are much different from someone who has dependents and a mortage," Mar­tello stated. 
After assessing his personal 
needs, the next step the life insurance consumer must take is to decide between the two basic types of life insurance: whole-life or term. Whole-life insurance com­bines protection with a savings 
plan and other "living " benefits. 
Term policies, on the other hand, offer only protection, but at a substantially lower price. 
An average term policy pro­viding $10,000 protection might cost a 25 year old man $50 per annum while a $10,000 whole-life . policy would cost approximately $160 to $170 a year according to Charles Reddy, insurance officer for Notre Dame. Despite the price difference in favor of term policies, whole-life insurance is "right" for some people said Reddy. 
"There are two groups of people for whom whole-life is a sensible buy," Reddy stated. "They are people who have trouble saving money and people in a high tax bracket." 
Whole-life insurance benefits people who have trouble saving I because it works in a way similar to forced savings plans such as Christmas clubs or vacation clubs; and has a rate of return roughly comparable to them. All or nearly all premiums paid on a whole-life policy are returned when the policy is cashed in. 
This reimbursement of pre­"We try to help everyone who according to Willemin, Notre Dame registers, " Willemin said. graduates from last year receive an 
Last year, the acceptance rate of · · annual salary that is $300 more Notre Dame seniors who applied to than graduates from other univer­graduate schools was 65 percent --sities receive. 


Friday, Sept. 16 
2:00 -midnight 
SMC CLUBHOUSE BEER BRATWURST 

HOTDOGS SODA 
Rain Date: Sat, Sept. 17 10-5 WATCH THE GAME WITH US 
students in the program. These included 500 meetings for the· 104 students in Arts and Letters. 
The Placement Bureau will initi­ate this year, with the cooperation of Student Government and the .Alumni Association, a program that will involve Notre Dame alumni in the process of finding jobs for the students. Through a magazine article to be sent out 
stration Building, will begin this •. rector of the Placement Bureau. later, favorably-inclined alumni 
year's campaign next week. On will be requested to provide any Tuesday, September 20 through In addition to those activities, the help they find possible. Friday, September 23, interested • Placement Bureau helps students The Placement Bureau is only for students from the various colleges !lrrange interviews with prospec-. Seniors. Nearly 300 graduate 
students applied last year and 
Group continues 
fight to save 

South Shore 

South Shore Recreation is a community organization formed to save the Chicago-South Shore South Bend Railroad from extinction. The South Shore is the last electric, interurban train in the United States. The railroad, according to South Shore Project Co-Director, John Lave, petitioned the Inter­state Commerce Commission for the right to discontinue services some time ago. Unless something is done, says Lave, the train will not operate after February, 1978. 
In -a move to preserve the railroad, South Shore Recreation is sponsoring a trip to the "Chicago" rock concert at Soldier Field in Chicago on Sept. 24. Tickets to the concert are $5.30. To reach Chicago take the Chicago-South Shore­South Bend Railroad at 10:35 a.m. Escorts from Recreation will be at 
the 12th Street-Roosevelt Railroad Station to take students to the concert. Gates open at noon, and the concert begins at 2:00 p.m. A round-trip ticket on the train is $6.10. You will return on the 6:00 
p.m. train, arriving in South Bend at 8:05p.m. 
If you aren't a rock concert fan, South Shore Recreation is also sponsoring a trip to the Chicago Cubs-Pittsburgh Pirates baseball game. Escorts will also be avail­able at the station for this activity. Cost for admission is $1.50 



Insurance experts warn seniors 
years. A much better deal than 
just getting your money back in SO 
or 60 years said Reddy. 
People in high tax brackets can 
benefit from whole-life insurance 
by using it as a tax shelter. Funds 
invested in whole-life are exempt 
from state and federal taxation 
until the policy is cashed in. 
-Term -policies, however, have disadvantages of their own. Pre­miums are increased regularly in term insurance while whole-life rates remain virtually constant throughout the life of the policy. Also the protection provided by term policies often decreases as the policy-holder becomes a poorer risk said Martello. 
Reddy stresses the importance of including two specific options in term insurance policy. These two options or "riders" are "renew­ability" and "convertability." 
A term policy is "renewable" if the coverage may be continued at the end of each period by paying the increased premium without the necessity of a medical examinatiou. 
. [contlnued.on pag~.SJ. 
open Fri. & S~t. ~in 



Midnight 

Pabst 
case 


Busch 
case 



Strohs 
case 



Falstaff S289. 
12 pack (bottles) 



s289
Blatz 
Old _Chicago 
$149 


6 packs

miums does not make whole:life thr~ bargain it appears to be according to Reddy. Making an investment that would yield five per cent yearly would double the original investment in only 14 
12 pack (bottles) _____ ·-----­



HammS$159 
six pack 
Strohs· Rmn$4~~

'6oz case 

Sc~tch $sae



saa7 !qt 
Vodka$3~99
Miscellaneous . qt Cases of Beer 

Gin S419 


sass 

2128 South Bend Ave. 

/ 
Thu~y, Sepbnnber1S,1977

tbeQbsarver 


Returning lnnsbruck students discuss program 
by Bdgld Rafferty Staff Reporter 

Students returning to Notre Dame from a year of studying abroad have expressed diverse reactions to their experiences over­seas. Some students who par­ticipated in the 76-77 year abroad program in lnnsbruck, Austria felt that teachers wasted class time, didn't care, and assigned grades casually. 
According to one junior who studied in Innsbruck last, year, "It was a great travel experience, but the school part of it was horren­dous. The teachers didn't care, which • .ade the students not care, and they seemed to throw marks out by the flip of a coin." He pointed out that the average GPA of the Innsbruck students was very high. 
"The teachers knew their stuff, but gave us little i work," he continued, adding that some Am­erican students . have complained that the Director of Foreign Pro­-grams expressly told the Univer­sity of Innsbruck teachers to deal easily with Notre Dame students. 
One participant in the program University should take greater cited an example of a student who, action in making sure teachers are after missing a final and reporting serious about the students, and 
Brademas re-election im~'~'ssible, says Rep. State ChairnJ•sn 
INDIANAPOIJS [AP] -A cam­paign contibution accepted by House Majority Whip John Brad­emas is going to make the Indiana Democrat's re-election impossible, Indiana Republican State Chairman Bruce B. Melchert said. 
Hrademas, who has served 18 ·years in Congress, is listed as 
having received a $2,950 campaign 
contribution from South Korean 
businessman Tongsun Park listed 
in an indictment returned last week 
charging the South Korean with 
influence-buying on Capitol Hill. 
''I think that Brademas has got some vulnerabilities," said Mel­chert. "We're not interested in slinging mud, but we are interested in Mr. Brademas coming up to the standards that we think all public officers should reach." 
Brademas has called the con­tribution from Park legitimate and denies that it was a bribe. he said the money was used directly for ca~paign activities. 
However, in answering a report in the South Bend Tribune that $950 of the money ended up in Brademas' personal bank account, the congressman said he doesn't remember what he did with the money but that it was "all perfectly 
I 

legitimat~" to deposit it in his own 
THE BIG Q 
is now in the neighborhood

TheNow Printers™ , I 
FAST PRINTING 
resumes term papers__ ~yers announcements one block south of Wendy's on U.S. 31 5 minutes from__ campus 
' 
for the make-up final, was simply 
told, "Don't worry about it," and 
did not have to take any test. 
Dr. Charles Parnell, Director of 
Foreign Programs at Notre Dame, 
however, asserts that no in­
structions to be lenient to Notre 

Dame students have ever been 
given. 
"Every student in the program 

was given a questionnaire at the 
end of the term there, and other 
than disappointment with one 
teacher, we have no indication that 
the students were unhappy with 
their courses," he stated. "It's 
true that in the Innsbruck program 
there is less research work, and 
less preparation to do, but that is 
the European style of teaching." 
Most classes in lnnsbruck are 

taught by University of Innsbruck 
instructors, but a senior member of 
the Notre Dame faculty is also with 
the students during the duration of 
the program. During the program, 
a member of the Notre Dame 
administration also visits the for­
eign schools where Notre Dame ·students are studying to provide ongoing supervision. Some Notre Dame Innsbruck students, however, feel that the 
checking account. Mel<:hert said the strongest Re·JI••••••••••••••••••••••••••.. 
At a press conference, Melchert publican candidate in Cornwell's said the House seats held by Eighth District would be Evansville Brademas and David Cornerwell Mayor Russell Lloyd. He said he would be major targets of the GOP gave Lloyd the advantage because next year. He predicted that the he alr€:ady has good name recog­GOP "absolutely" would pick up at nition in the southwestern corner of 
least two more Congressional seats the state. in Indiana next year. 
'Second City' to 1--eturn 
by Anne Bachle 
Second City, a comedy group appearing at St. Mary's Saturday night, was the main topic of discussion at last night's meeting of the St. Mary's Social Com­mission. 
We.'re very happy to have them back again," commented Social Commissioner JoAnn Baggiano. "They've been very popular the last two times they've been lhere, and this year they have an all new routine, so even those who've seen them before will enjoy it," she added. 
Tickets for the 8 p.m. show are available from the St. Mary's programming office and will also be on sale at the St. Mary's dining hall at dinner Thursday and both that th€: Innsbruck teachers should "stop treating classes as some­thing to g'~t through." 

Whit'~ acknowledging that living in a covtntry where a foreign language iis spoken is the best way to learn it, some students from InnsbriJlck were dissappointed that a few of their classes were taught in English, rather than German, and that assignments were to be writ­ten in English. 
"Most students on the program began th€:ir study of German at Notre Dame," explained Parnell," ''and wer~e not as fluent with the language as, perhaps, students in French might be, because German has not been as popular, which is simply a reality of secondary education. "He noted that a few subjects involve profound concepts which rnight be difficult to teach to students in any language other than their own. 
Parodi also pointed out that the distribution of grades earned by the Innsbruck students was parallel to those achieved by the same group during their freshman year at Notre Dame Because of the competition, those who are sel­ected form an academically su­perior group.They should thus be expecte:d to earn higher GPA's, Parnell said. 
lunch and dinner Friday. 
St. Mary's Coffeehouse is still seeking a1ny students with talent who would like to perform for the grand opening Sept. 23, or anytime thereafter. Interested students should call Karen Bickel at 4035. 
Baggiano remi~ded everyone that the Quickie Is running this Friday evening every half hour starting at 7:30. "It's really important that kids have a place to go,"she noted, "and this gives them the opportunity to do some­thing diff<:rent." Round-trip tickets cost $1, and the bus leaves from the ND frol!lt drcle and St. Mary's Holy Cross. 
Also discussed was a party line 
so that anyone may call to find out 

any cv.ltural, athletic , or social . events on either campus. This is 
buE~ to tremendous response there will be another 
s:tud-ent Union Plant Sale 
~ponsered by the S.U. Services Commission 
Sat., Sept. 17 


11:00 am -? 
LaFortune Ballroom All Plants at Wholesale Cost 
Palms Wandering Jews 
. n:.·~~ a~·"'r;~ :~> ;_c ~.~~.r..tV£ ...::t~·~c~·: 

Notre Dame has no vested interests in the Foreign Study programs,!' Parnell continued. "'They are for the benefit of the students. They are a combination of both academic and experiential learning. During the last ten years, however, there seems to have been a shift in students attitude from one of seeing the programs more for the travel value, to one of being overly-cautious about grades ear­ned in school abroad." 

Student Gov't to sponsor leadership forum, picnic 
Student Government and the Student Activities Volunteer Ser­vices Staff are sponsoring a leader­ship forum and welcome back picnic for members of several student organizations on Sunday, Sept. 25. The forum will be held in the Library Auditorium from I p.m. to 4:30 p.m., and will be immedi­ately followed by the picnic at the Student Affairs "Douglas House." 
According to Tom Soma, stu­dent body vice-president, and John Reid, assistant director of Student Activities, the leadership forum is designed to make individuals in leadership positions more aware of their identity as a leader ~,tnd of the respohsibility they assume in such a role, as well as to help develop leadership skills. The affair will also provide campus leaders with the opportunity to meet each other 
TENNIS WEAR WARM UP SUITS SWIM WEAR &T-SHIRTS ATHLETIC BAGS 
100 CENTER MISHA WA KA 
· 
Some students who were in Innsbruck during the last academic year, however, were quite satisfied with their courses and the pro­gram. "We were light on course work but the travel was the most important part of the program," commented one student. "I learned more talking to an old Austrian on a ski lift than I could have in any Austrian history class. There were a few courses I thought were really great, too.'' 
in both a formal and informal setting. 
"This forum is possibly a prel­ude to a more extensive and involved forum next year, to be held over a two to three day period," :commented Soma. "It is the result of some forums held last year, and has been in preparation since April." 
Those invited to the forum and picnic include Student Government members, Student Life Council representatives, Student Union workers, members of the Hall Presidents Council, select volun­teer group leaders and select medial representatives. Students who have received invitations are asked to return their confirmation sheets to the Student Activities Office in LaFortune by Monday. 

255-7770 

----~~----------~----------~--­
Thursday, September 15, 1977 the observer 


SU to hold concert ticket lottery 
by Bob Varettonl Senior Staff Reporter 

Student Union is trying to dis­courage stude:nts from sleeping out on lines to buy concert tickets, according to Joe LaCosta, SU ticket office manager. 
This year, LaCosta said, lines will not be fc,rmed until 6 p.m. on the night before the ticket office opens. 
LaCosta said SU will hold a lottery at 6 p.m. which will include students who have already shown up at the ticket office. The lottery will determine the first place in line. A student who shows up at 6 p.m., then, has as much chance for the first tickets as a student who shows up eadier. 
steen concert, students arrived at 
the SU ticket office at 2:45p.m on 
a Friday.. The office, however, was not scheduled to open until 6 p.m. that Sunday. Ticket buyers­
camped out on the LaFortune lawn 
that weekend. 
LaCosta admitted that having the first people in the line maintain order produced some problems last year. For the spring ELO concert, for example, one "unofficial" line was formed by the first two students, and it led to some confusion. Also, for the Boston concert, the first person in line let his friends on the list even though they were not waiting in line. 

La Costa, however, claimed that overnight problems have to be expected. McCabe added that LaCosta's job should not have to include policing the lines. 
LaCosta said he "really doesn't know what the studeM reaction will be" to the new SU ticket policy. Still, he said, "it sounds good on paper and should be good in practice." 
The next concert this semester will be Steve Miller's Oct. 21 appearance at the ACC. LaCosta has yet to set a date for when tickets will be available. 
The Hunger Coalition continues in AI Sondej's tradition as workers collect money in front of the dining halls. [Photo by lisa Becker] 
Wednesday night fast. to start next week 
by Janet Ubert 
The World Hunger Coalition of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's will begin its Wednesday night fast program next Wednesday. For 12 weeks students may volunteer to give up their Wednesday night dinners and by so doing contribute to the World Hunger Coalition. For each meal fasted the dining hall will contribute 75 cents to the Coalition. 
Three-quarters of all money re­ceived by the Coalition is sent overseas through several agencies, such as CARE, OXFAM and Cath­olic Releif Services. Each agency has been carefully researched by the Coalition. The other one-quar­ter is given to the needy in South Bend. 
The Hunger Coalition, a part of the Volunteer Services of Notre Dame, is headed by Jim Cycone, Carin Pacifico and Helen Gallag­her. According to Pacifico, the Hunger Coalition is "a group of people on campus ~ho are con­cerned with injustice m the world, who wish to speak out for people in the world who can not speak for themselves." 
The Hunger Coalition 3 not oDly involved with dining ball collec­tions and fasting. It also sponsors various other . campus activities designed to make the student more conscious of the plight of the Third World countries. 
Pacifico stated, "Collections and fasting are the most visible way to make people aware of the real situation and injustice in the world. 
There is a real difference between the Third World life-style and the American life-style.'' 
As part of the Coalitions's drive to inform the student, it works with 
Cellar opening postponed 
The Keenan Cellar will not open on Sept. 16 as previously an­nounced. The facilities have not been completed and the opening is postponed indefinitely. The new date of opening will be announced the Student Union to invite speak­ers who are knowledgeable in the area of world hunger. The Hunger Coalition ·also. sponsors a letter writing campaign near Thanks­giving to U.S. Senators and Con­gressmen to alert them of the students' concerns involving world hunger. 

Pacifico also stated, "We hope to have vegetarian meals offered in the dining halls again, giving the students a chance to simplify their one life-style in some small way, and to encourage thought about how fortunate we are." 
Another idea that the Hunger Coalition hopes will initiate more thought about the world food situation is an alternate summer job program. The Hunger Co­alition hopes to offer a scholarship for this purpose. 
A general meeting of the co­alition will be held Sunday in the Library Lounge at 4 p.m. All interested are we1come to attend. 
Students warned about insurance. 
[COIItiJaed from ,.e31 "This is extremely important:'' "Do not consider a term policy that cannot be reneWed at least through age sixty-five," he added. "Convertibility" is a feature of a term policy which allows the owner to convert it to whole-life insurance without an additional physical ex­amination. Term policies with convertibility have the advantage of low rates during the first years and the option of conversion to whole-life when the rates increase in later years. Just as important as costs and options according to Martello is the integrity of both the salesman and the company he represents. "You rely not only on the salesman's expertise but his credibility as a businessman. So get to know him," Martello stated. One drawback to buying life insurance as a senior at Notre Dame is that a majority of students move away from South Bend and their insurance salesman upon graduation. Thus student policy­holders, Martello stated, often miss the accessibility and sense of 
at a later date. responsibility of a local agent. 
THE. SPEED READING COURSE 
of Dr. Vearl .McBride world renowned educator and author will be presented in the So1uth Bend area. There will be a series of FREE 1 hour lectures explaining the co1Jrse, dates of classes and tuition. Increase your reading speed with greatly increased comprehension. 
This course is for: 

*BUSINESS PEOPLE *THE STUDENT 
*PROFESSIONAL PEOPLE *THE Gl FTED CHILD 
*TECHNICAL READER *THE REMEDIAL READER 
*LOW COMPREKENS10fVREJWER. *THE SLOW READER 
Dr·. McBride's Panoramic Reading has.been featured on national TV and radio with students reading over many thousand words a minute. These lectures are designed to inform you what Panoramic Reading can do for you. Panoramic Reading can save you hours a week at the same time increase your comprehension. Learn to read 3-1 0 times faster, and a greater understanding of what you read. The fastest re,:~ders in the world are taught by McBride Method of Panoramic Reading. 
Attend one of the following special FREE one hour lectures at the following time and places 
Howard Johnson's Motel 
U.S. Hwy 31 North. 

Mon. Sept. 19 Two meetings, one at 6:30p.m. and again at 8:30p.m. Tues. Sept. 20 Two meetings, one at 6:30p.m. and again at 8:30p.m. Wed. Sept. 21 Two meetings, one at 6:30p.m. and again at 8:30p.m. TWO FINAL MEETINGS Thur. Sept. 22 Two meetings, one at 6:30p.m. and again at 8:30p.m. 
Presented by The National RP.ading Enrichment Institute. A Non-Profit Organization 
Attendance limited to 50 people 

'·' ••.• '" ·-· '·"~·-· ......_... _.,_._.__ .,_ ....._.. ·.~, ....,.,......-4.·-·..._·.. ·.·•. 

-~ ------~--­

opinion 
Bar Owner Replies rick kanser 
It is unfortunate that this article has to finally be written, but then there has arisen in the past few weeks such rumors, scandals and outright lies, that the air must be cleared. 
About a week ago we were interviewed by one of The Obser­\'er's crack reporters. We were asked to comment on the extra number of men in blue in the bar area. We explained to this person that we did not intend to provide just sensational quotes or head­lines. but in the interest of obtain­ing the facts I invited the reporter to a full interview. For forty-five minutes we talked, but when the article came out she took only the ~ensational items she wanted in the beginning. 
So let me first clear up that whole matter. This past summer, a task force was set up to handle the problems in the Northeast Neigh­borhood. Representatives from various groups were selected to be on this task force. Representing Notre Dame was Dean Roemer; Dr. John Roos, represented the residents; Captain Foy, the police department. Gene Diubindki, the Board of Public Safety, and I represented the bar owners. All summer long we tried to work out a compromise that would have this area continue to be the hub of off-campus student life and yet at the same time protect the rights of the residents. 
By the end of the summer, . an 

agreement was reached and signed 
by all the representatives. We 
decided to set up a Northeast 
Neighborhood Fund. This fund 
would collect money and appro­
priate these monies for litter clean­
up campaigns and other neighbor­
hood developments. At that time 
we asked the city of South Bend to 
extend to this area extra police 
controls to enforce litter and noise 
ordinances. This is the main 
function of the police in the area. 
This program was greatly appre­
ciated by the residents. What we 
are asking of the students js that 
when they are outside the bars, they keep the noise down and don't litter. 
Socapsulizingall of this, yes, this is an off-campus student area and you have the right to enjoy it, but remember it is also a residential area and your rights to enjoy this area stop at the point where they begin to infringe on the rights of these residents. 
Now as a response to the totally irresponsible article that appeared in Monday's Observer: First, I 
MOLARITY 
NOPE. .. I'VE BEfN HERE A 

FEW DAYS BUT I DON'T 
HAVE AROOI1fv!AT£ YET... 
want to say that I ·do not intend to downgrade any bar; all bars in this area offer something different and that is the strength of this area. It would be sad of all bar owners tried to create the stereotype "Irish bar" to please Mr. Madden. Also, Mr. Laurino, there is a bar in this area by the name of Bridget McGuires; it is a well-done, uniquely decor­ated club, with an excellent, hard­driving sound system. In fact, I think their name has a slight Irish ring to it. In the future, Mr. Laurino, I would hope you realize that you are writing for a reputable student publication and not The National Enquirer. 
A little bar history would be helpful at this point. It was the creation and expansion of Nickie's some seven years ago that set this area as the center of off-campus activity. Before then, students were going to downtown bars and constantly getting mugged and assaulted. We will always be greatly indebted to Nickies for the courage and foresite they showed by bringing students back closer to campus. The Library was the first bar to provide live rock entertain­ment, live country-western and blue grass entertainment, and dancing, while never having a cover charge. We also brought in disco. We apologize to Mr. Lane, since this doesn't seem to comply with his tastes, but some people do find this more enjoyable then chugging down a beer while com­municating with a pin-ball machne; also, the bump is already out. 
As far as draft beer is concerned, when I was a student here, which was not so long ago, the college market was all quarts; every bar seved nothing but quarts of beer. Four years ago, combined efforts by Corby's,Nickies and the Library br~ught draft beer into the market. 
Circumstances since then have led some of us to a different comsumer unit, the can or bottle. However, if you evaluate price and fluid ounces served, you will find the Library and Nickies to be totally price competitive. The one excep­tion being the Senior Bar, but I 
would hope  no  one  in  he  or  her  
right  mind  thinks  we  should  or  
could  compete  with  a  non-profit  
organization.  

Let's stop the ridiculous rumors and lies. If you favor a particular bar, then go there, but don't downgrade the others. Every bar in this area has made and will make significant contributions to off­campus life. How boring would it be if you had no choices? 

THEY'RE' 5ENDIN0 OVER 
SOMEONE... APPARENTLY 

THERE WAS SOME SORT OF MIXUP. 
opinion 



Fasting on a Big Mac 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii aIan rabideau 
Once again the time has arrived to sign up for NotreDame's annual "conscience-salver," the Wednes­day-night fast. Last semester, approximately 700 students thought enough of this program to participate and help the Hunger Coalition raise nearly eight thou­sand dollars for the relief of hunger. But the world's starving people weren't the only benefici­aries of the generosity of N.D. students. Food Sales, the Huudle, and that great American insti­tution, McDonalds, seem to be the unforseen winners in this game. And they don't even have to print up the little papers or help count the pledge forms. Economically, this is absurd-a hardworking N.D. student is bound to work up an appetite that requires much more than the$. 75 donated by the dining hall could provide. So why not eat dinner on Wednesday and donate the price of a Big Mac and fries to the Hunger Coalition? That would be economical and would certainly be more pleasing to the digestive system. Many of our "precociously intellectual" students have un­doubtedly arrived at this conclusion and refrain from the program for this reason. 
But what ever happened to actually fasting? The interests of the Hunger Coalition transcend sound economics. The money raised by the fast program feeds a lot of people. But it is a drop in the bucket when compared with the enormity of the problem; the fact is that almost 500 million people are permanently hungry. And dona­tions do nothing to alter the injust structure of the whole eco­nomic system, nor do they chal­lenge the oppression and over­consumption practiced by the wealthy nations, our own included. 
Skipping theWednesday meal only to eat elsewhere defeats a major purpose of the program. The goal ofthe Hunger Coalition is two-fold: 
1) to add its financial and political efforts to the endeavors of others trying to institute change, and 2) to bring to the attention of the ND-SMC community, a situation of which it seems blithely unaware ­there are people who die because they don't have enough to eat. 
Rich in tradition as Notre Dame is, it is also far removed from the "real world"-where real suffering is a fact of life for a very large number of people. Hunger Coalition programs are not in­tended to salve consciences. We should not feel guilty for an oppressive economic system that has been created by centuries of colonialism and greed. But we are responsibled for the direction we take in the future. We face a situation which demands a re­sponse. And each individual must determine his own response for himself. 
The Hunger Coalition hopes that everyone, especially including those who fast on Wednesday nights, understands the extent and causes of the problem of hunger. 
Regardless of whether one decides to give his or her time, money, career, prayers, or nothing --it is not a situation which can be ignored. The fast is an opportunity for each of us to explore our own relationship with the food we consume, and to help us realize that we all depend upon the gifts of this planet. Fasting, however limited, is a means of relating to the physical sensation of hunger. One cannot deal with the problem on an entirely intellectual basis. An emotional solidarity with those in need is necessary before one can trulyofferhimself. The question of solidarity is a complex one --the degree of hunger one experiences in a one-night fast is of symbolic value. The important thing is not that the individual has an opportu­nity to embrace the issue on some level. 
In 1975, Colman McCarthy, a Washington Post correspondant, wrote: It is the shame of political Washington that no one in power -­not in Gerald Ford's White House, or in the Department of Agriculture --thinks enough of the American people to create the structure for individuals to make sacrifices that make a difference." It is the belief of the Hunger Coalition that is people are to be fed, we will be called to sacrifice something of our own affluence. The fast program is not an answer, but an attempt to embrace the spirit of sacrifice, a 
vehicle for developing our own unique response in injustice. 



P.O.BOX-Q~ 
ND student 

power 

Dear Editor: 
I am responding to the letter printed in the Sept. 9 Observer by Freddy Siebenmann. In his letter Mr. Siebenmann stated that the students of Notre Dame have power but he warned, "Sleeping giants cannot do anything. Awake! Think! Look! Question! Act to­gether!" My question is how to express our power? 
Mr. Siebenmann tells me that I'm going to be shafted by Dean Roemer. As a senior, I'm ac­customed to being shafted and feeling totally frustrated in th!lt situation. What can we .do that wdl change anything at this university? 
We could stage a sit-in stmilar to the "laugh-in" we held in 1976. Of course it would have to be peaceful, orderly and not infringing on anyone's freedom. We would be obligated to register it with the dean. In that way he or she could control the protest. 
We could meet face to face with the administration. We did that at the "Bull Session" a few years ago. The major event of the evening was when Brother Just flashed an impressive drawing of the Barnaby's-type restaurant which was to be added to the Huddle. The restaurant never seemed to get any further than Brother Just's posterboard. 
We could always have those intimate fireside chats with Fr. Ted and Jim (Hesburgh and Roemer) in one of the hall chapels. One of these was held in Grace during the calendar conflict. It was suggested that the Notre Dame students' problems were so minimal com­pared to the world crisis. It was a new way to avoid the issue by making the students feel guilty. 
True to the Notre Dame tradi­tion, we could form an investigative committee. In the recent past, we've had committees on every­thing from parietals to pig farmers. By referring a problem to a committee you can put it out of circulation for a few years. For example, the laundry proposal had its beginnings in the fall of 1974. Does it really take three years to put washing machines in a campus building? If a proposal does get as far as the university admimstra­tion, it could be vetoed like the human sexuality revisions the SLC spent a semester on. 


If nothing else works, get a petition going. You can see how 2000 of our names· helped Prof. Danehy get his job back. We could have the parents begin a letter drive similar to the one some students tried to initiate last year. They were protesting the five-ticket limit at the graduation ceremonies. Seniors received five tickets any­way. We could write to The Observer as thousands have before us and thousands will after. 
Fight back? I'd love to if some­one could just tell me how to do it effectively at-Notre Dame. 
Mary Pat Tarpey '77 
Local human 
rights 
Dear Editor; 
Last year during the Notre Dame basketball season, there were sev­eral of us in wheelchairs who regularly attended the games. We were usually placed in a position where we could see only half of the court. When one handicapped individual asked to sit where he could see the full court, he received verbal and physical abuse and he was almost knocked out of his wheelchair by an usher. 
We lodged a complaint with the South Bend Human Relations Commission in January, 1977. The Commission mailed our complaint directly to Rev. Theodore Res­burgh, Notre Dame University President. We have received no reply. Apparently Fr. Hesburgh has been too busy fighting for the human rights of the Russians. 
Tbomu Wiegand President, Mlchlana Chapter · National Paraptegla Foundation 

Thursday, September 15, 1977 
the observer 

Say Justice Dept. attorneys 

Lance probe dropped while in full speed 
WASHINGTON [AP] • Justice Department attorneys who investi­gated one of Bert Lance's banks said yesterday their investigation was going full speed when the: Atlanta U.S. attorney ordered it dropped a month after Jimmy Carter was elected President. 
However, the former U.S. attor­ney, John Stokes, denied that the investigation was fruitful and said he closed it for lack of a prosecut­able case. 
He ended the investigation last Dec. 2, a day before Carter announced that Lance would be budget director. 
The allegations came on a day when Lance was criticizing the news media for its coverage of his problems and denying he would 
resign and when White House Press Secretary Jody Powell was apologizing for spreading rumors about one of Lance's most outspok­en critics. 
Stokes' former assistants con­tended Stokes didn't want to anger the incoming administration and lose his job before he was eligible for a pension. 
Stokes, a Republican appointee, acknowledged that he was worried about losing a 20-year government pension if he left office under a new administration. 
Under questioning by the Senate Governmental Affairs Committee, he said he had called Atty. Gen. Griffin Bell three times to make sure he stayed in office long enough. But he eventually retired in August, three months short of 20 years. Instead of drawing a pension immediately, he must wait until he is 62. 
Stokes also acknowledged he had misgivings about continuing the investigation of overdrafts by Lance's 1974 gubernatorial cam­paign committee at the Calhoun First National Bank. 
"If we went ahead with prosecu­
tion it would certainly leak out. 
You have no right to destroy a 
man's public career by fiddling 
around with an investigation for a 
few months when you don't have 
any grounds to start with," Stokes 
said. 
If IfI continued the case, it would look like a lame duck Republican ·trying to make a name for him­
self." 
Officials of the comptroller of the 
currency's office earlier testified 
that they did not believe the Justice 
Department would have prosecuted 
the case because it would be hard 
to sell to a jury. 
The department was trying to 
decide if overdrafts by Lance's 1974 gubernatorial campaign committee on the Calhoun First National Bank were really illegal campaign contri­butions. 
Jeffrey Bogart, former assistant 
U.S. attorney, told the Senate hearing "it's inconceivable to me that the case was closed" at that time. 
He said he met with Stokes Nov. 29, 1976, asking him to pursue the campaign finance case and over­drafts by Lance family members at the Calhoun Bank. 
"I remember he did not want to rock the boat and I believe he made some reference to his pension," Bogart said. 
However, Stokes testified Bogart told him in September "the case is no good. I'm going to close the file.'' He said he was surprised when Bogart told him Nov. 29 he wanted to pursue the case. 
Stokes said he decided before closing the inve!>tigation that it was not prosecutabl·e. He said former Assistant Atty. Gen. Richard Thornburgh agreed with him on a telephone conversation. 
Glenne L. Stone, former chief of the fraud section in Atlanta, said Stokes had told! her he wanted to stay on in the U.S. attorney's office until November 1977 so that he would be eligible for a federal pension. "Afte1r the closing of the 
KC death toll rises to tvventy 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. [AP]­Missouri Gov. Joseph P. Teasdale estimated damages from the Kan­sas City flood at $30 million yesterday, and said, "From what I can see, it's a blessing that only 19 people died." 
Even as he spoke, police found another body -the 20th on the southeast side of the city -and they worried about others listed as missing. 
The count of persons missing in the flood dwindled Wednesday as some previously thought .missing were accounted for. At least four persons were believed to be mis­sing in flood reiated incidents. 
Nineteen bodies were found in the Kansas City area itself, another in the flooded area of Leavenworth, Kan., 35 miles to the west. 
Teasdale said he would ask President Jimmy Carter for federal disaster assistance, making the area eligible for low-cost loans and outright grants. 
"I believe the President will, in my judgement, react quickly to our request," the governor said~ "Our 
for infirmary 

[continued from page I] The Committee recommended that the University's committment to increasing minority representation be supported by funds to be made available for that purpose. 
The committee recognized the 
good quality of medical services 
available to students, but also 
noted a lack of health education. 
Accordingly, it recommended the 
implementation of a Health Educa­
tion program at the hall level. 
Another recommendation in the ·report has already been imp­
lemented, changing the name of 
the Infirmary to Student Health 
Services. 
In summary, the Committee to 
Evaluate Coeducation concluded 
that "although still struggling, 
coeducation is a burgeoning ven­
ture of the University, and has a 
health and strength that augurs its 
well being." 
Jones expressed her hopes for the committee's seven months of work: "If the spirit of the report is captured and the vast majority of recommendations are implement-­ed, we'll all have made a signif­icant contribution to the University of Notre Dame." 
main qualification is because of the number of people that are home­less." 
City and county officials es­timated that 1200 persons were still homeless because of the rampag­ing waters along Brush Creek and the Blue River. 
The flash flood was the result of 12 inches of rain in a 24 hour period Monday. The water surged into Brush Creek, overflowed its banks along the fancy Country Club Plaza shopping center, and moved into the Blue wreaking havoc all the way. 
The body found Wednesday was near Brush Creek, about two miles downstream from the plaza, 35 blocks south of the downtown area. 
Teasdale said he would ask the disaster designation for five Mis­souri counties near the Kansas botder:Jackson, Clay, Platte, Ray and Lafayette. 
In the Kansas suburbs of the 
metropolitan area there also was 
extensive flood damage, but Gov. 
Robert F. Bennett said it will take 
time to assess the damage. 
''It will run into millions and millions of dollars," he said. City commissioners issued an e­mergncy declacration Wednesday, permitting us•~ of $225,000 in community development funds to help low and moderate income residents ofthe: flood-stricken Kan­sas City, Kan., area. 
For farmers, too, the flood meant trouble. 
"Some individuals probably will be knocked cle:ar to their knees," said Raymond Ritchey, acting Mis­souri state dir•!ctor of the federal Agricultural Stabilizaion and Con­servation Service. 
Corn soybeans and hay all had matured and were awaiting har­vest 



Next to River Pari< Theater 2923 Mishawaka Ave. South Bend 
case regarding the Calhoun bank, Mr. Stokes told me that he should call 'Jimmy and Be1rt' to tell them what he had done. I concluded that his statement was in reference to his closure of the case involving Mr. Lance." 
Asked why Stokes had written a letter to the Senate Jan. 17 supporting Lance's nomination, she said, ''my conclusion, based on the discussion I had, was that the letter was probably intended to held Mr. Stokes in his pension fund." 
Assistant U.S. Attorney Robert 
H. McKnight Jr. of Atlanta also testified that he felt Stokes was wrong in dropping the investiga­tion. 
Under questioning from Sen. John Heinz, R-Pa., all three ack­nowledged that they would reopen 
the  investigation  if it  was  their  
responsibility.  
"I  think  reopening  the  case  

would quell any feeling people would have that anyone other than convicted embezzler Billy Lee Campbell at the Calhoun bank was involved in culpable activity," Bo­gart said. 
Lance, who will get his chance to testify befOre the committee today, denied anew yesterday that he intends to resign after defending himself against allegations of fi­nancial improprieties. 
Lance lashed out at the news media as he left his Georgetown home for work, saying he was being smeared with innuendo and hearsay. 
Charged Lance: "If you can take allegations and innuendos and hearsay and everything else, the words of a convicted felon, and all these other things, and put them in the paper and show them on television and then say that's a fact... · 
"And then, without having a chance to refute that and have my day in court, and be faced with the charge that because of that my effectiveness has been damaged and crippled, then we're in sad shape in this country." 

Professional Business Managers ••• 
The Navy Supply Corps 
Supplying the Navy with over t\\{1 rllillion different 
it:~  ess~tial  to  th~  operation of modern ships,  
mssiles,  aucraft  and  facilities  is  an  enonmus  
responsibility.  

Providing food, transportation, clothing and payroll services to the men and \\{)men of the Navy is part of this obli~tion. 
The xmgnitude of Navy Supply Corps responsibilities has grown to mighty proportions, global in scope and constantly expanding in pace with the Navy. 
Wherever the Navy is, you '11 fmd the Supply Corps-at industrial installations and test centers; with missile, underwater detection, space exploration and nuclear propulsion development team;; at land or air facilities in the oontinental United States or overseas· and with the Fleet at sea. ' 
When the oakleaf of the Supply Corps is added to your Navy uniform, you join approxixmtely 4,200 Supply Corps officers dedicated to a vital mission of provi<F logistical support to the United States Naval Forces the \\{)rld over. 
A Navy Officer Representative will be in \Jc, South Bend on September 20, 21 and 22. To obtain further information or to schedule an informal interview, call collect 317-269-6197. 
phone 288-1178 

..BL.-_ _,t..h....,e..._.o"'"'bs~...ervlt.L.II....ar_____~T..:..:h.::..urc..:.sda..:...:c..oy'-'-,~Se-=-ptember 15, 1977 



Kissinger~ Rusk support Panama Canal Treaty 
WASHINGTON [AP] -Former the United States or other nations to keep the canal functioning and but, in fact, the more democratic permit the Inter-American Com­Secretaries of State Henry A. from using it. safe, they would be in a far the regive, the more pressure mission on Human Rights to inves­Kissinger and Dean Rusk said The treaty, which faces a ratifica-stronger position ... under the Trea-mounts for concessions favorable to tigate the situation there. The yesterday that the new Panama tion vote in the Senate early next ties of 1977 than under the anach-Panama. commission's findings probably Canal treaty would give the Unted year, provides for the United States ronistic Treaty of 1903." At the same time yesterday, the will undercut claims by antitreaty States more authority to keep the to gradually relinquish control until State Department expressed grati-forces that negotiations with Torri­
waterway open that the 74-year-old the year 2000, when the waterway In side-by-side testimony before tude over Panama's decision to jos were unwise, officials said. would be turned over to Panama. the House International Relations
agreement under which the canal 
Committee, Kissinger and Rusk 
For SMC J-board
was built. While the two agreements that said that, if the United States were 
Firmly supporting the treaty comprise the treaty provide for the 
withdrawal of all u.S. military forced to send troops to keep thesigned by President Jimmy Carter 
Applications now accepted
forces from the Canal Zone, they canal open, there would be interna­last week, Kissinger and Rusk also declare that the United States tional support under the new makes it a good one, several
sought to answer critics who say Applications are now being ac­the Panamanians might seize early and Panama agree forever "to treaty· cepted for available positions in the changes will be enacted this year to 
Without the treaty, Kissinger
control. close the canal or exclude maintain the regive of neutrality Judicial Commission, Diane Smits, improve it. The board will stress 
said, "it would be impossible for 
St. Mary's judicial commissioner positive instead of negative sanc­established in this treaty.'' even our friends in the hemisphere 
Senior Class announced. Applications can be tions, to make retribution construc­
"We have in the treaty the to support us., foundation for acting, if need be, to picked up daily at the Sudent tive, she said. keep the canal neutral and open,'' Rusk told the committee that the
Trip information Affairs office or at St. Mary's For example, the student might 
Notre Dame and St. Mary's Activity Night tonight. be required to attend a values
Kissinger said. terms of the treaty negotiated with 
seniors planning to go on the The Community Relations clarification workshop or other
He said that the 1903 pact under the government of Gen. Omar
Senior Class Trip to San Francisco Board, Student Relations Board, forums that will "make the student 
which the United States built the Torrijos are much more favorable
should submit roommate requests Appellate Board and the hall aware of her social, academic,
canal and established sovereignty to the United States than any
for the trip to the Student Activities boards all have openings. personal and due process rights
"was not even signed by a Pan 'l-agreement he could have reached
Office or contact Terry at 7308 by Any student is eligible to submit and responsibilities," according to
manian ... and is universally rega with the more democratic regimesWednesday. ed as inequitable." in power at the time he was in an application, which must be Smits. 
A list of those who are currently The system will strive for consis­
Rusk agreed, saying, "If, C. l office. returned to the student affairs uncommitted will be posted in the forbid, it should ever becon:c "Opponents of these treaties office or directly to Diane Smits no tency in decision-making, so that, 
Huddle today. Students who fail to later than Monday. as Smits contends, "the student
necessary for a president and object to our making such agree­
submit requests will be assigned Smits emphasized that although will know where she stands at all
Congress to take strong measures ments with a dictator," he said,
roommates randomly. the simplicity of the judicial system times." 

Business. Science. Engineering. 
This semester isthe right time to get a TI calculator tailored to the work you're doing .. 


r 
,,

SR-51-11 -TheMBK 
Professional decision making system. Business calculator Loadedwith statistics· functions. A business major's dream machine.­

Accounting. Marketing. Education. If you're building a career in business, the MBA Social Sciences. Life Sciences. Health. can be ideal. It provides instant answers to com­Statistics plays a major role in dozens plex business problems at the touch of a key. It is of career fields. Here's a calculator with preprogrammed for a wide variety of functions the advanced capability you need to and formulas business professionals face every handle your projects. Comes with day. Take internal rate of return, for exampl6, a Calculating Better Decisions, a $4.95 book value. valuable calculation for accurate capital budget­Helps you get the most out of the SR-51-II. Step­ing. It's complicated, often difficult, and takes time. by-step illustrations show how to use its powerful The MBA handles it in seconds, for 12 ~o preprogrammed functions. Learn how to gather different cash flows! It also offers pro-rf) data. Weigh alternatives. Arrive at rapid, accurate grammability-up to 32 keystrokes for ~Y decisions. solving repetitive problems easily. 
TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 
,, 1977 Texas lnsuuments lncorporaltd INCORPORATED 4o530 

----,--.-----­
'I 9
Thursday, September 115, 1977 the observer 



Helmet wearers subsidize non-helmet riders 

IndlanapoUs [AP] -Motorcyclists who wear helmets may wind up subsidizinR._ those who don't through higher insurance pre­mium, officials sf.y. 
"H you want an educated opin­ion." Willaim F. Timmons said of the repeal of the mandatory helmet law, "I'd say it will cause rates to go up, especially in the area of medical coverage." 
Timmons, vice-president for marketing at American Inter-insur­ance Service Inc., the largest insurer of motorcycles in Indiana, said the higher rates might_ not be 
~udd surrenders; refuses comment 
NEW YORK (AP] -Mark Rudd, silept in custody as he was elusive during a seven year flight from the law, ended his fugitive years yesterday without saying a word in p~blic about the radical Weather 
Q'nderground. 
Rudd, 30, would not say where lie has been or what he has been doing or why he was giving himself up. He smiled as he pushed his way past reporters to surrender at the offices of the Manhattan dis­trict attorney. 
"He is not making any state­ments to the courts, to any govern­ment agents, to the press or to anyone else," said his attorney, General Lafcourt. 
Rudd -a self-proclaimed rev­olutionary who was quoted in 1969 as saying, "Don't be timid about telling people we're Communists. Don't deny it. Be prout of it." had been a fugitive since 1970, when he jumped bail and became the object of an intense FBI search. 
He arrived for his surrender 
wearing a suede sports coat and 
an open-collared shirt. He was 
clean -shaven. 
Rudd's dress and appearance provided a close resemblance to his picture on FBI posters, which were still displayed in post offices across the country as his planned surrneder was announced Tuesday. 
However, Rudd wore glasses as he entered the district attorney's office and had none onin the poster pictures. 
Officials said Rudd would be 
charged with bail-jumping and a 
variety of misdemeanors in con­
nection with the student takeover 
of buildings at Columbia University 
in 1968. 
Today Rudd is expected to present himself to Cook County authorities in Chicago where he faces charges stemming from a 1969 demonstration known as the "Days of Rage." 
Since he disappeared in 1970, Rudd has reportedly not returned to his family's home in Maplewood, 
N.J. and has not seen his parents. They were not at the courthouse for 
Collins to speak 
on Faulkner 
Dr. Carvel Collins, professor 
emeritus of English at the Univer­
sity of Notre Dame, will present a 
series of lectures on William Faulk­
ner on Sept. 20, 21 and 22 in the 
Rare Book Room of the Memorial 
Library. The 4:30 p.m. talks are 
sponsored by the Department of 
English and are open to the public. 
Collins' talks are entitled "The 
Critic vs. The Fiction," "The 
Author vs. The Fiction" and "The 
History Teacher vs. The Fiction." 
An authority on Faulkner, Collins is 
the author of a biographical and 
critical study of the author in the 
process of publication. 
Collins joined the Notre Dame 
faculty in 1967 after earlier teach­
ing at Swarthmore College, Har­
vard University and Massachusetts 
Institute of Technology. He re­
ceived his undergraduate degree in 
English at Miami University of 
Ohio anq Jtis graduate degrees at 
the Unive~ltf.of.<!mrAgo..-.-.·~.., 
confined to helmetless riders. They might also apply to those who continq.e to wear the protective headgear. 
"It's the small claims that take the premium dollar. The repeal of the helmet law is likely to create more injuries in the small area,'' he said. "The very severe accidents 
won't change much. H you hit a car head on, you're dead in any case." 
Timmons says motorcyclists ·who decide not to wear helmet are those who are most likely to have an accident in the first place. 
"My fear is that it will be the younger rider who will go without the helmet," he: said, "and statis­tics already have proven they are more susceptible to having an accident. 
During the first nine months of this year when wearing helmets was still mandatory, 67 persons died in motorcycle accidents, state police records !ihow. Statistically, that represents an average of 1.6 deaths per week. 
But, during 1he last two weeks, when the mandatory helmet law was repealed , six helmetless 
Rudd's surrender, a court official original leaden. It was not known said. ifhe remained a leader of the group 
Rudd appeared calm as he in recent years:. entered the courthouse with Lof­The group has claimed respon­court, telling one reporter who sibility for a wide variety of acts of fired a volley of questions, "Nice political sabotiLge in the past seven weather." years since members disappeared 
A reporter asked, "Mark, how into the underground. Among about some of that old thunder you them are bombing at the U.S. had at Columbia?" Rudd smiled Capitol, the Pe:ntagon, and the Gulf but said nothing. Oil Co. headqlllarters in Pittsburgh, 
The Weather Underground was and the prison escape of former created in 1969 from remnants of drug guru Timothy Leary. Students for ademocratic Society -The FBI stillis seeking 14 mem­
SDS -and Rudd was one of the bers of the Wt~ather Underground. 
SMC SOCIAL COMMISSI()N 
presents 
SECOND C~ITY 
in a_n all new comedy revue 
Sat., Sept. 17 
8:00P·m. 
O'Laughlin Auditoriu1n, SMC 
STUDENTS $2.00 GENERAL ADMISSION $~1.00 
Tickets available at SMC Programmiing Office 
cyclists were killed in accidents. 
"Actually, that's' kind of high for a two-week period," said Vicki Ruth, who works in the state police accident records division. 
"It may be too early to draw conclusions," said Thomas Wil­liams, program director for the Indiana Traffic Safety Department. "We'll need more hard information before we return to the legisla­ture." 
The 1977 Indiana General As­sembly repealed the 10-year-old mandatory helmet law, saying the decision to wear protective head­gear should be up to each cyclist. the repeal came despite warnings that traffic fatalities would increase as a result. 
"It will take maybe three to six months of study. We have to play the numbers game now. We can't go back to the legislature without something cold and hard,~' Wil­liams said. "Billt the helmet definitely does protect the head. We already know of many cases where the person simply would not have survived without it." 
The repeal will go uph~eded by motorcycle officers on the state's largest municipal police force. 
"No city motorcycle policeman, on two or three wheels, will ride a city vehicle without a helmet, whether on or off duty,'' said Capt. 
James M. Coleman, commander of 
-the Indianapolis Police Depart­ment's traffic branch. "We Jknow the consequences of not wearing one." ' 
A case in point is ·Patrolman Joseph Calichowski, who was rid­ing next to a city golf course recently when an errant ball struck 
his  helmet.  The  blow  left  him  
stunned-but uninjured.  
"The  helmet  was  totally  

smashed," Coleman recalled. "H he hadn't been wearing it, he might not be with us today." 

Observer staff meetings held 
l ' 

There will be a meeting tonight for anyone interested in working on I I production or writing for The Observer. The meeting for re­porters is at 7:30 p.m., those interested in production (layout) ! are asked to attend a 9:00p.m. ! assembly. ; 
Both meetings will be held at the:' LaFortune Student Center in roo~ 2D located off the ballroom. These meetings are to serve as ali introduction to the paper for those who signed up at Activities Night or for anyone interested in working for the paper. 
~--~----------~-~,
( Atte11ti()_!1_ Neighborhood 1
IRoots Participants:  1  
I  I  
l  -­ I  
I The Roots experience begins  
Thursday Sept. 1s, 1977­ I  
I 1 Participants without tickets must Ipick theln uP at_th':_ Studer1t GOY. Office in. Lafortune I  I I1 1•.  

___,I 

Are you interested in the field of NUCLEAR ENGINEERING? 
If you are then you should look: into the Navy's Nuclear Officer Programs. The Jllavy operates 60 percent of this country's nuclear 
-reactors, and our training facilitiE!S are the finest in the world. Within the Nucllear Reid, the Navy offers programs in the following areas: 
Operational Engineering -offers 4)ne year of graduate-level training in Nuclea1r Engineer­ing. 
Research-Development-involves pure R & D at the Navy's facilities in Arlin~1ton, Va. 
Nuclear Instructor -teaching posi'tion at our Nuclear A>wer School in Orlandcl, Fl. 
To apply for one of these programs, you must have these qualifications: 
Be a junior or senior pursuing a degree in engineering, math, physics or hard science. 
Have a G. P.A. of 3.2 or better. 
Be less than 27 years old, in good physical health.. 
A Navy Officer Representative will be in South Bend on September 20, 21 and 22. To obtain further information or to schedule an informal interview, call coiled 317-269-6197. 


.,.,.... 
Students are not the only ones affected by the changing South Bend weather. These trees have caught a cold. [Photo by Leo Hansen] 
Bicyclists invited to tour 
Granger, Ind., -The Michiana 
Bicycle Association, Inc. has ex­
tended an invitation to all bicyclists 
to ride in the Turning Leaves 
Century, a guided tour of South­
western Michigan, on Sunday, Oct. 
2, when fall colors are expected to 
be at their peak. 

Four different tour routes are 
planned to start from Edwardsburg 
High School on Section Street in 
Edwardsburg, Mich., 12 miles 
northeast of South Bend. Riders 
choosing the 100 mile route are 
asked to register and begin riding 
by 9 a.m. Eastern Daylight (Michi­
gan) time. Riders on the 60 mile 
route are asked to start by 10 a.m. 
EDT. Bicyclists taking the 40 mile 
route should begin by 11 a.m., and 
bicyclists on the 20 mile route 
should be on their way by 12 noon 
EDT. 

The four routes are on secondary 
roads of Cass and St. Joseph 
Counties. The smooth roads have 
light automobile traffic and scenery 
of beautiful lakes, rolling hills and forests, John Walker, chairman of the Turning Leaves Century com­mittee, said. 
"The Michiana Area is becoming 
known as one of the best bicycling 
areas in the United States," Walk­
er said. "At last year's Turning 
Leaves Century we had many 
people come from Ohio, Illinois and 
Wisconsin to enjoy our fine roads 
and outstanding scenery." 

Approximately 350 bicyclists 
rode in the 1976 Turning Leaves 
Century. 

Route markings are placed along 
the roads to guide bike riders. 

Each rider who registers for the 
ride will receive a road map which 
also indicates places for lunch, rest 
stops, and the 25 lakes along the 
tour routes. Accompanying the 
map is a printed guide to historic 
places and scenic stopping points 
along the routes. 
Members of the Michiana Bi­cycle Association will patrol the Turning Leaves Century routes in vans called "sag wagons" which carry snacks and drinks. In addition, the sag wagons will have tools and spare parts to help riders with bicycle mechanical problems. The sag wagons will also have first aid kits. 
Riders are asked to register on or before Sept. 23, although registra­tions will be accepted until the starting times on Oct. 2. 

for registration forms and more information, contact Marv Scher, 50657 Blackhawk Ct., Granger, Ind. 46530, telephone 219-272­8700. 
The si~th annual Turning Leaves Century ts sponsored by the Michi­ana Wheelers, a division of the Michiana Bicycle Association, with assistance from the Valley Wheel­ers Division and the Michiana Cycle Racing Club. 
Michigan to test for birth defects 
LANSING, Mich. [API • Michi­gan health officials were to begin testing today of hundreds of children born on chemically con­taminated farms to find out if they have suffered birth defects. 
The two days of tests at the Muskegon County Health Depart­ment anad Muskegon General Hos­pital are the latest in a series of investigations stemming from the 1973 accidental mixup of the chem­ical PBB polybrominated biphenyl with livestock feed. 
The incident has resulted in hundreds of damage claims by farmers, for which out-of-court settlements on 600 claims totaling 
..$39 million were reached, concerns over the Iongterm health effects on the rural residents and those who are PBS-contaminated food, and a state law that will require the destruction of thousands of cattle at a cost that could approach $45 million. 
Doctors from the state's medical schools will test children born on farms that were quarantined from late 1973 through 1976, as well as a control group of children born to Michigan mothers who had no detectable PBB in their breast 
milk. 

"Complete psychological and neurological examinations will be conducted," said Dr. William Wei! of the College of Human Medicine at Michig~ State University. 
''Doctors will look for systems in the neuromuscular, nutritional, growth and infectious disease areas as well." 
He also said psychologists will look for signs of mental stress that may have developed among the quarantined families. 
Carter scraps memo system, introduces acronym method 
By Frank Cormier Associated Press Writer 

WASHINGTON [AP] -One of these days, Jimmy Carter probably will get an IDM on how to make the government simpler. 
In most likely will be followed by an RM, or a RDM or even a DPD. 
The plain old presidential memo has been replaced in Jimmy's new streamlined government by an "alphabet soup" of acronyms. 
Designed to help President Carter make policy decisions, the memo-writing system for the do­mestic policy area closely parallels 
'one already used in handling national security decisions. 
The directive to agency heads was released by the White House Wednesday. A press release said the object of the exercise is to "tightenup and better coordinate the way major decisions are made and followed-up" in the domestic arena. 
Here's the way the system is supposed to work: 
IDMs -When domestic policy assistant Stuart Eizenstat or an agency decides an issue requires presidential attention, an Issue Definition Memorandum will be submitted to Carter, "after full consultation with the vice presi­dent, all affected departments, agencies and senior presidential advisers." 
An IDM will set forth the issue involved, name an agency to take the lead in exploring it, set up a coordinating committee and fix a deadline for presenting options to Carter. 
RMs -These Response Memo­randa will provide background information, analyze options and list agency recommendations, 

New policy for Rockne gym to start Monday 
Starting Monday, Sept. 17, a new 
policy will be in effect in the large
gym of the Rockne Building on weekday evenings, Monday through Thursday. 
The large gynl' will be reserved for women's basketball or volley­ball from 6:30 to 7:30p.m. No men 
will be allowed. From 7:30 to 8:30 p.m., the same gym will be reserved for men's athletics, ex-
eluding women. After 8:30 p.m.
and all other times the large gym will continue under the present policy of coeducational athletics. 
During either reservation period the gym is available to all female or male students at the designated 
hour. Organized clubs or groups
will not be allowed to exclude non-members from using the facil­
ity during the reservation period. 
gtvmg voice to the views of all members of the coordinating com­mittee. 
PDMs -Eizenstat's staff, "where appropriate," will prepare a Presidential Decision Memoran­dum summarizing options that have been reviewed by all those involved and affected. 
DPDs -"Where appropriate, presidential decisions will be set forth through a Domestic Presiden­tial Directive." 
To get things started, Carter 
i LiquorI RHINE CROWN 
I 


ILIEBFRAUMILCH I $299 a fifth 
I 

1WHITE TAVERN 
1
I GIN or VODKA
I 
S319
I 
fifth 
or
I

1 I 3 for $1 Q99 1 mix or match 
I -----------...l..------------1
I
1 I
PRICES GOOD THRU SEPT. 17. 
\ 1723 South Bend Ave._ ,. • 
Proprietors Jim-class of 63 Chuck-class of 65 ... I 

SPAGHETTI 
With sauce · With meatballs. 
PIZZA 
Cheese SausageMushroom Pepperoni Green PepperGround Beef 
Ham Onion Anchovy 
Black Olive 

SPAGHETTI DEEP DISH half full & REGULAR 
1.65 2.20 
PIZZA

1.85 2.50 
12 in 14 in 2.55 3.05 3.10 3.95 
3.10 3.95 232·7919 
3.10 3.95 
913Y2 LWW

3.10 3.95 
3.10 3.95 South Bend 
3.10 3.95 3.10 3.95 3.10 3.95 3.10 3.95 
*delivery fee 

directed that all agencies submit to Eizenstat by Sept. 23 a ·"brief list" of domestic issues "which have substantial impact on domes­tic policy and which require signifi· cant interagency involvement." The Carter memo leaves an escape hatch from the new system if an issue does not require a lot of coordinating or in the event of "excessive time pressures or un­usual political sensitivity. " Maybe they'll call those PDQs ­for pretty darn quick. 
; 
WHITE TAVERNI BLENDED 1
1
WHISKEY I s399 a fifth 1 
Busch I I 
I 1 2 pack I
1
Cans 

I s29a warm I
I


or I 
/ 

Thursday, September 15, 1977 the observer 11 l ~ 
-
AFC establishes its superiority 
[continued from page 12] Jets. 
AFCCentnl 

Pittsburgh Steelers • Despite their problems, the Steelers are still among football's best. The of­fensive line has been hit by injuries and overall offensive production has been down a bit, but the Steelers will put points on the scoreboard. Mean Joe Green and friends have some pride to recover this season, and you can bet they'll do their best. Mel Blount has yet to settle his squabble with Chuch Noll and his loss would hurt. Look for a 
Bar-B-Que 

1.. & 
Beer 
~~~ 

typical slow Steeler start followed 
by a roaring finish. 
Cincinnati Benpls · Everyone 
seems to think this is the year for 
the Bengals to catch the Steelers. 
Though they may have the talent, 
they have yet to beat Pittsburgh in 
a crucial game. They may be 
psyched out. Ken Anderson, Issac 
Curtis, Billy Brooks and Archie 
Griffin are the key offensive cogs. 
Rookies Willson Whitley and Eddie 
Edwards make the Bengals' Defen­
sive line one of the quickest and 
best in football. Both the lineback­
ing and secondary are sound. The 
Bengals are an excellent team but 
they may again play bridesmaids to 
the Steelers agian. 
aeveland Browns -The Browns are in the unfortunate position of ibeing in the same division as the Bengals and the Steelers. Greg Pruitt is a good scatback and Brian Sipe is a good, though underrated, signal-caller. Safety Thorn Darden 
expected to carry a football team. 
Dan Pastorini wants to be traded, 
but he remains at 1he helm. The 
whole offense could use more 
depth. Robert Braziile is an All-Pro 
linebacker and the: secondary is 
good. Bum Phillips needs someone 
· to replace Curly Culp at nose 
guard.  The Oilers will be compet­ 
itive.  
AFCW.est  

Oakland Raiders -What can you say? The Raiders are loaded. Potential stars such as WR Mike Siani and OT Henry Lawerence ride the bench waiting for their chance to play. Ken Stabler is football's most accurate passt~r. Dave Cas­per, Fred Bilentnikoff and Oiff Branch form football's best receiv­ing corps. Recently acquired Mike McCoy will add even greater depth to the defensive line.. The lineback­ers and secondary have enough good players to field two teams. 
Denver Broncos • Many feel John Ralston was the source of trouble in Denver, this year should either prove or disprove their theory. Former New England line coach Red Miller takes over the coaching duties and he should give Otis Armstrong some blocking to follow. 
Craig Morton is the new QB, but this may not last as Craig Penrose and Norris Weese are waiting for their chance behind the center. The defense is steady with line­backers Randy Grandishar and Tom Jackson leading the way. The Broncos should have sm average season. Kansas Oty Chiefs • The Chiefs have many new people in thefr teepee, but they could use even more. Coach Paul Wiggin has a three year contract, so ~~t least the pressure is off, temporarily. Walter White, a waiver pickup, is the star of the offense at wide receiver. On defense, the Chiefs line is poor and the linebackers tend to be too light. The Super Bowl is still many moons away for the Chiefs. Seattle Seahawks · The Seahawks are the better of the two expansion teams from a season ago, but here is still much room for improve­
ment. Jim Zorn was one of the 
surprises of last season and he 
solidifies the quarterback position. 
"ltey may be living down the .Jorsett trade in Seattle for a few years, unless Steve August, one of the principles in that tra4e, per­forms well from the start. The defense has lost former ·Notre Dame All-American Steve Niehaus until the middle of the season, and the) Jack quality people in many other positions. It will be a few years before the Seahawks are kings of their dome. 
Wild Card: Bengals 
AFC Champs: Patriots 
Super Bowl Champs: Patriots 
\S 
is an All-Pro, as is tackle Jerry Oakland will battle New England to Sherk. Top draft choice Robert the wire for the AFC crown.
Restaurant 
Jackson was lost to a knee injury, 
San Diego Chargers -The Chargers 
and 
and he will be missed at linebacker. 
may become footballl's most excit­
*Observer
The Browns should be around the 
Lounge 
ing team. Johnny Rodgers, Joe 
.500 mark. 
Washington, James Harris and 
Houston OUers -Billy "White 
Charlie Joiner will amass a Jot of
Featuring the finest 
Shoes" Johnson is an exciting 
yards and a Jot of points. The
in hickory smoked 
football player, but he can't be 
defense is young. Frontliners Fred 
barbeque -cooked over 
Dean, Gary Johnson, Lou Keleher 
an open pit with special 
Cheerleaders and Leroy Jones slilould improve 
Sports
with experience. The Chargers
sauce 
injured 

have to be looked upon as the 
Although the cheerleaders wiJI AFC's dark horse team.
Thursday is 

be attending this weeks upcoming game in Miss., their ranks have been severely depleted by injury. 
NIJ KARATE CLUB
Irish leprechaun, Joe Cosgrove severely strained ligaments in his left knee this week during practice 
Tue-Thurs, 6-8 p.m.
and will be missing from action for 
about three weeks. Captain Sue
9 -closing 

Olin fractured her left wrist last 
Wrestling room ACC
Happy Hour Prices 
T·G·I·F·
week as a result of a bad fall but 
will continue to lead the Irish
4-3 a.m.

1132 S. Bend 
squad.
daily 

Drafts 45t
Ave. 
Other injuries include the frac­
Beginners enrollment still open
closed Sun. 

--·-· ·----·--·­
ture of Bill Leight's right foot and
Alone and Mon. 
Lorretta Ransom's chipped elbow 
Friday 3-7
289-0639 
For more info, call Tom 3.253
which required surgery. 
NOTICES FOR SALE Wanted: six Ga tickets to USC. Call
The Dancln' Irish presents "The Day of SL-1500 technics direct-drive turntable.
Found: Ladies watch at Rockne. Call Jeanne at 4-4001.
the Locust" starrfng Karen Black and with cartridge. 8 mos. old. Mick 2743.
1313. ·----·---­
Donald Sutherland at the Eng. Aud. 
Classi1fieds 
KITCHEN HELP PART-TIME. HourlyWed., & Thurs. at 7, 9:15 ani! 11:30. 
Lost: Silver Cross Rf!n with initials PAJ. wage. Ap_ply in person. Pinocchio's Pizza
Admission $1.00. Near bookstore. Call 8798. Parlor. Georgetown Shopping Center. x~,t~~:l'l2~~ !~~':~:lnf~~io~ 
Only 4 minutes away. Asli tor Jackie.
Any desiring photos of Linda Ronstadt Used golf balls like new. $20.00 for 100.
Lost: '76 class rlnQ Brother Rice High
taken in concert Monday, Aug. 29 lcolor Call 272-D783 for more Info.
SchooiA Chicago. lmtials RJR. Call Bob Part-time waltresse~. Must be 21. Apply
or black & white) please contact John at 
8707. modest reward Is offered. Need tix to Purdue ~~ USC games. Call In person to Pinocchio's Pizza Parror.
8340. For Sale: Guitar -Ovation acoustic with
John 1196. Georgetown Shopping Center. Only 4 case, Barcus Berry pickup, leather strap.
minutes away. ASR for Jackie.
Typing. Reasonable rates. Call 8051. Best offer. Will sacrifice. John 7687.
WANTED Anyone going near Blacksburg Va. ------------­
DesP.erately need rido any weeken~. Will Needed desperately: 2 GA tickets for
Sewing repairs. Reasonable. Call 8051. Corni11gware electric _percolators (coffee
Need ride to Chicago Friday 16th, $$$. pay $$$. Call Kathy 4-4287. Michigan State. Cali Tom, 287-3987. 
pots) 50 percent off. Gall 6985.
Norm 1475. --------------Good bucks!
Gay Community of ND Guide to ND-SB 
--------------Wanted: Ticket to Mich. game. Will pay ------------­
$1.00 Pandoras or Box 206. Notre Dame. Sansui 7 receiver. Great shape. $225.00
FUN-GAMES-EXCITEMENT. Have no­$$. Call Mike 289-80.16. 4 GA Purdue tix. t til 232·5926. In 
(?) 289-1829 after 7.
thing to do with the fact that I need 2 evenings 288-6115.
Gay Community of ND lnfollne. 8870 Fir Micnigan State tickets, Ed 3443. Wanted: Two tickets to Michigan State
& Sat 10-12 p.m. '72 Fiat 850 SP.ider. New engine and
game, either GA or ~;tudent ticT<ets. Call Need 1student or GA ticket to Air Force 
tires. Must sacnfice at $975 or best offer.
Please! Help a senior imP.ress his friends Mark 1436. game. Pay good$$$. Call 8207.
Need ride to Bloomington, Ind. (IU) this Call 272-5327.
from home. I need 4 Michigan State ----­
weekend (or any weekend). Call Vicki 
tickets and wi II P!IY mucho. Can Geoff at Wanted: 5 'USC tickets. Call Paul at 1 need 2 tix to Mich. State. Call Russ at
6751. 
1083 anytime and l<eep trying. 1424. 8772. 
PERSONALS 

Come one,~ Come all! Yes folks, the first -----------------­
One MSU student football ticket. Will pay DesperatelY need 4Georgia Tech tickets. Filthy trich aunt from California reauires
Saturday nee. at Logan Center has finally For information concerning just formed
$$$ (money) laughs or anything. Carl Call Bi118792. 4 GA tlx for USC. Money no object! Call
arrived! The ND-SMC Council for the Gay Liberation Club, call president John
Mary 1313. Tim at 1605.
Retarded's first Rec. i~ this Saturday, at 2120.
Wanted: Michigan State tickets -general -----------------­
Sept. 17 from 9:00a.m. ttll11 :30 a.m. We 
Desperately need 2 Michigan State admission prererabl~·. Will ~Y 1P. Call Need 4GA tickets to Mich. State, Oct. 1.
hope to see you ali there bright and early! Hey Tony after 2weeks you still haven't
tickets. Preferably GA. Will pay top $. 4-4001 and ask for Je:anne or Mo. Call Meg-4-4046. Will pay $. 1
If you have any questions feel free to call thought 01 something??? G
Call 8515, ask for Mark.
Jeanne Conboy 284-4391 or Art Koebel ------------­
Wanted: 4 GA tickets for Southern Cal. Need 1Q-20 Ga tickets to any home game.
287-7509. Need ride to Bloomington, Ind. (IU) this
Need 4 Michigan State tickets. Call Claire W!ll pay good bucks. Call 1423, ask for Willing to pay$$. Call1212 or 1197. Ask 
weekend (or any weekend). Call Vicki289-6533 between 4 & 7. Mtke. for Bob. 
6751. 
FOR RENT 

Wanted: Hate your roommate? Move In Desperately need tickets to Michigan Wanted: A BW TV and a bicycle in good 
Hello to Pete, Steve, Frank & pat. G
Near side. per State and Southern Cal. Please call condition. Call 288-3073.
Country house for rent for 1to 3students. with us. west $50-75 
month. Utilities inc. 288-9614. Marianne at 1262.
10 minutes from ND campus. Phone To whom it may cancer, return the hat
Wanted: Will trade 4 blondes for 4 USC
277-3604. that you stole from the South Dining Hall.
Need six Southern Cal tix. Mark 287-7051 Pleaseh I need four Michigan tickets. Call or Mich. St. tix. Call Pat 272-5843. 
No questions asked. Contact 232-n82.
Alicia o117. Urgently need a nde from Cleveland­Desperately need 2-6 Mich. State tickets.
LOST & FOUND I really really need a ride back to Notre
Corumbus-Toledo vicinity to ND Sept. 18. 4GA football tickets ND-So. Cal. together Call Bob 3301. 
Dame from Cleveland-Columbus-Toledo
Call Diane 7883. or 2 & 2. Call 288-18:34.
Lost: ND folder near ACC. Call John Two guys need ride to South Chicago -vicinity on Sept. 18. Call Diane 7883. 
1848. 
Needed: One small refrigerator either to I want to trade 4 Purdue-N D football tix Sept. £3. Cali 1720 or 7449. 
adidas "On Campus"

rent or buy. Will pay good money! Call for 4 Michigan StatEl-ND tix. Call 277­
Lost: JJ Norkus. If found, please call grand opening sale, shoes, clothes,
4-4563. 3604. Wanted: 1girl to share house. Call Frani
8051. acces. also: Frank Shorter gear. Mon-Fri:
234-3730. 
7-9. Call 3078, 425 Fisher.
2 N D students need roommate to share Wanted: 3Purdue-ND tickets. Please callLost: Pair of brown glasses. Lost in South 
house. 233-8855 or 283-3228: 4101 or 5431. Need 1 ticket for a[ly_ home game except
Dining Hall on 9-8-77 Call Kinny at Rosemary, which are worse: sports
Navy. Call Mark 10\J9.
232-9140. writers or elbows?
Wanted: One Senior ticket for the season. Julio's needs delivery personnel. Part­----------·------­
Call 288-8235. time or full-time. Guarantee $3.00 per Need four Gen. Ad. tickets USC preferab­
Lost: 3keys at South Quad picnic Friday. Keenan Choir the Vienna boys choir
hour. Call 233-2354. ly together. Call Rick 8688.
_______________._____
Reward. Call 7957. used to be my favorite but they don't sing
Wanted: 2 to 4 USC tickets, student or Happy Birthoay. Muffy
GA. Will pay money!· Suzy 5148. Help wanted: Resident student cashier & Research Assistant
Lost: Seiko watch somewhere between usher. Must be able to work nights, Conduct historical research for Discovery
Senior Bar & Fisher Hall. Reward. Call Hank, How's the 4.0 coming?
Urgent! Need any number of Mich. State weekends and holidaxs, hourly wage.. Hall Museum, Century Center. Prefer
283-1928. ·~-­
tix. Also need tix to any home game. Call Apply in person to IVIario Randazzo, graduate student in hlstory~ American 
or field. Duffy, How about Arby's?
Donna or Sue: 255-1147. Forum Cinema, 52709 U.S. 31 North. Studies related ;:,orne prior
Lost: Dog, Shepard-husky, gold, black & research-museum experience desireable.
white. LtncolnWay, Porfage area. Very To my buffalo,
Wanted: 1 or 2 GA Navy tickets. Call Will trade 2Georgia Tech or 2Army for 2 20 hours P.er week for six to seven
special. Call Becky 232-6362. Thanks for bemg all that you are to me.
David 8697. Southern Cal. Air GA. Paula 6354. moneys;_ $3.70 P.er hour. Send resume by 
Love,Septemoer 20 1977 to:

Lost: Wallet with ID Saturday night Your Turkey
Will pay extra for 4 good GA tix to Big money for 4 GA tix to Mich. State. Personnel, Attn: Discovery Hall
between Engineering Auditorium and 
Michigan State -Joan 1280. Call Jacoli 8720. 1200 Conty-City Building
Grace Hall. Useless to anyone else. Cali It's our turn: Sego's Rowdie Sectioo,
South Bend, Indiana 46601.
Tom 6713. Reward. Double Dave, Skippy, Terrence, and the ,
Desperately need 1 student ticket to
Need student ticket to Mich. game. Will Mac Keith and fhe Gang -Friday
pay$$. Call Lenny 277-2397. Mich. State. Please call 4-4894. Wanted: former boy scout or other
Found: On sidewalk 1976 Holy Cross Festivities. 8 p.m. Be there, Aloha. The
interested person for webelo (cub scout)
J:lr.!lP:aiatory class ring. Call Denise Quaffing Quint
Wanted: 4 tix to Michigan State. Call _leader. can 272-8356.
4-54(12. 
Mary Pat at 288-823e,. 



12 the observer Thursday, September 15, 1977
r 
Coach Kelly makes presence felt 
by Tony Pace Sports Writer  crucial plays." Becker, a 6-0, 220 pounder,  is  prominently in tbe future plans of the Irish defense are Mike Whit­ 
described by Kelly as, "an enthus­ tington, Bobby Leopold and John  
The linebacking corps is the glue  iastic player who overcomes  what  Henkerd.  Whittington  and  Leo­ 
of any defense.  They are involved  some  people  might  see  as  a  pold, both sophomores, will back  
in both the pass defense and the  disadvantage,  his lack of height,  up at the outside linebacker spots.  
run  defense.  Normally,  it  is  a  with quickness, hitting, and know- Hankerd,  a  freshman,  is  listed  
lineba<jker who will lead a team in  ledge of the game. He is one of the  second on the depth chart behind  
tackles~-­Notre Dame has a history  leaders  on  the  field  during  the  Golic at the middle linebacker post.  
of fine linebackers.  The man who  course of tbe game.''  Kelly said, ''At this stage of the  
is responsible for much of this is  Golic, the 6-3, 240 pound man in  game,  Hankerd is certainly  com- 
Linebacker Coach George Kelly.  the middle, is seen by Kelly as "a  parabletotbeplayofBobGolicasa  
Kelly  has  been  coaching  line- young man who is fast for his size  freshman."  
backers at the collegiate level . for  and very strong.  His strength is  The most important attribute for  
17 years.  First at Nebraska from  certainly of great importance be- a  linebacker, in Kelly's mind,  is  
1961 to 1968, before he returned to  cause he does occupy the middle of  patience.  He  stated,  "At  the  
Notre Dame,  his alma  mater,  in  our  defense.  I  think  he  has  collegiate level, linebackers have to  
1969.  enhanced his play greatly with the  be both  run  defenders and inter- 
Right now Kelly feels that he has  loss of weight during the  spring  mediate zone pass defenders, be­ 
one of the finest linebacking trios  and summer.  He looks like he is  cause  of this they  must  learn to  
which  he  has  coached  in  senior  playing  better  than  he's  ever  read plays.  In high school, many  
Doug Becker and juniors Bob Golic  played.''  linebackers are blitzing or at least  
and Steve Heimkreiter.  This is the  Kelly  is convinced that  Heim­ moving on the snap of every play.  
third season that Becker, Golic and  kreiter, a 6-2, 230 pounder, has "a  In  college,  they  must  be  more  
Heimkreiter have worked together  god-given gift as far as finding the  patient."  
in the starting unit.  Coach Kelly  football is concerned.  He knows  Looking  back  on  those  line­ 
believes  they  have  progressed  what  can  be  done  from  certain  backers  whom  he  has  coached,  
greatly in their first two years and  offensive formations and he plays  Kelly mentioned Bob Olsen,  who  
he expect big things from them this  the run extremely well."  captained the 1968 and 1969 Notre  
year.  Behind these three is senior Pete  Dame teams, and Greg Collins and  
If the first game is any indica­tion, then they may live up to their coach's expectations this season.  Johnson who went down with a knee injury in spring practice but is now ready to play again. Kelly said  Drew Mahalic, both of whom are now playing pro football, as some of the better linebackers he has  linebacker Coach George Kelly steadies Irish defense ranked first in the nation.  
Reviewing the game, Kelly said, "I was extremely pleased with the linebacker play. Bob Golic and Doug Becker had fine games, and this is not to say that Steve  "He has been the pleasant sur­prise thus far this season. Pete is perhaps the only linebacker cap­able of playing all three positions. Because of this he is extremely  coached. At Nebraska, Kelly feels that Bob Brown, who played offen­sive tackle for the Philadelphia Eagles, the Los Angeles Rams, and later the Oakland Raiders, may  4.9 seconds when he was at that weight. Looking to this Saturday's game with Mississippi, Kelly said, "It is always the same in the sense that  piece of us. This game is a one shot deal with Mississippi, there is no home and home series. I know they will be ready." With dedicated coaches like Coach Kelly, the Irish  
Heimkreiter did not play well, but  valuable.  He is  very big in  our  have been his best. Brown was 6-6,  wherever we go someone wants a  will be too.  
Bob was involved in 15 tackles and  plans for this season."  315 pounds and he went both ways.  


Doug ten, two of which were on · Other linebackers who figure He also ran the fourty yard dash in 
Tom Desmond:;::::::=::;:;:;::=::;:;:;:;:;::=:=::;:;:;::::::=:=::;:;::::::=:::::::::::::::::::::::::====:::;::::=::::::::::::::::::::::::;:::::;:;:;:::::::::::::::;:;:;:::::::;:;.;:;:;:;:::::::::;:::;:;:::::;:;:;:;::::::: 
8trategy *Observer , 
·=:=:trm~~~(d;Jii=~ti~~il~i=~:id~;;=t====~i~~~i=:===~~===fi~tiii~===4J~6=~~=~:~~::=:~:~:d:=:==\h~:gi=~~=:a~~!:~~!~!!~~ 
wm over Ptttsburgh tt seemed as ttmtng to make the optton go. the fourth quarter after having his though the Irish left part of their Up front, the Rebels will start first kick of the season blocked. offensive attack on the blackboards sophomores on the left side and at Joe Restic also suffered misfortune in South Bend. Conspicuously center. The right side is where the in the early going with a safety but 
Sports
missing were the option, mis-di-experience is as the guard and came on in the remainder of the rection and countering plays that tackle spots are manned by a senior game. Both teams have an appeared in the few pre-season and junior respectively. It's block-excellent kicking game. scrimmages. The lack of scrim-ing that makes the option work and Analysis: The climate in Jackson maging, the pursuing Pitt defense although Cooper's squad has size may be the biggest factor in the .-;;and the overall pressures of the up front, the youth could make ballgame for the Irish. A backfield game contributed to the lack of them suspect. stable that is already lacking in 
AFC
"romance" in the Irish offense. For the Irish as it was last week, depth was hurt even more by the But, like a good wine, the offense the key to success will be con-loss of Terry Eurick and if the heat should get better with age. And trolling the line of scrimmage and and humidity become a real factor 
:=:=:=:=:=:=====:===:=======:=:::=:===:=:=:=========:===============:=:===========:====::=====:=======:=:===New England?
Saturday's battle, against Ole Miss plugging things up at the corners. his absence will be felt even more. Though the AFL was certainly upgraded. The Colts should have a before a sellout crowd of over It'll be up to the Bookends --Freshman Jim Stone has moved up the junior league before they joined fine season but, because of the 46,000 at Mississippi Memorial Browner and Fry --to keep the into Eurick's spot behind Vagas the NFL, no one could tell by the talent in the AFC, they may not Stadium should be a good place to quarterback bottles up taking the Ferguson and should see action. way today's teams are performing. reach the playoffs. start the aging process. word "option" out of the option Southern crowds are hostile The old AFL teams, bolstered by Miami Dolphins-Poor Don Shulal 
Going into last Saturday's game play.When the Irish have the ball: crowds even for the "normal" the addition of three former NFL In the last few seasons, he has lost against Pitt the Irish offensive line Again the running game will Saturday afternoon rivalry. But, in teams, now form football's most five quality players for out of the enjoyed the "on paper" advantage dominate the Irish attack. Con-Jackson this Saturday it's the Civil powerful conference, the AFC. ordinary reasons. Larry Csonka, over the Panther's defensive front. sistency on offense will come War revisited. Last fall both This season should be similar to the Paul Warfield, Jim Kiick, Don However, it was a swarming Pitt thr?ugh control of the lin_e of Alabama and Georgia fell to the last few in the sense that AFC Reese and Randy Crowder have 5-2 defense that ~e~t. that ad van-scnmmage an~ the resultmg Rebels in Mississippi and Ken teams will again tend to dominate. departed, leaving gaping holes tage from matertahzmg on the successful runmng attack. Jerome Cooper's squad would like to add Here is a look at the AFC teams: behind them. Shula has attempted field. The Irish will face a similar Heavens went over the 1,000 yard another big upset to their col--to fill these gaps but he only has so 5-2 defensive alignment this Satur-mark for his caree~ against Pitt and lection with a history of getting up AFCEast much talent with which he can day although the Rebels strengths earned the offenstve player of the for the big ones, the Irish will have work. Bob Greise is still the and weaknesst.~ are opposites of game award. He seems to be back to be leery of the Rebels. With the New England Patriots -Though the Dolphin QB, but his only weapons Pitt's. The rebels return five of to form after missing eight games Rebels defensive secondary their Pats were disrupted this week by are receivers Nat Moore, Durie! seven starters in the defensive line last fall with a knee injury. weak link, the Irish will be able to the walkout of ALL-Pro offensive Harris, and Freddie Solomon. and linebacking corps, Pitt had Rusty Lisch ~ent ~o the air pass to rest the weary ground linemen John Hannah and Leon Defensivly, alleged cocaine dealers returned but one. In the secondary succe.ssfully . agatnst Pitt on the troops while at the same time keep Gray, they are one of the premier Reese and Crowder will be re­where the Panthers had four re-sustatned drtve before the half. the Rebels honest. The possibility teams in football. The trade of Jim placed by rookies Bob Baumhower turnees the Rebels do not have a With the success that Lisch had (10 of a lot of playing time for the Plunkett was tbe best thing that and A.J. Duhe. Coach Shula faces single vetera~ ba~k from l~st year. for 18). against t~e nation's best entire squad serves as an added has happened to this team. With his second losing season in a row. 
The game ts bemg televtsed back defenstve backfteld, the pass catalyst that will help keep spirits the draft choices which they ac­Buffalo Bills -The Juice is still to South Bend on WNDU-TV with should be a valuable weapon this high in the face of the boisterous quired, the Pats have built a solid plying his trade in northern New kickoff slated for 1:30. Here then is weekend against Mississippi's Southern crowd. The situation on young team that should be strong York, too bad the Bills still have no a capsule look at the task the Irish young defensive backfield. Saturday most certainly lends itself for many years. The offense has defense. The Electric Co. blocks must undertake during their The Rebels on the other hand to the awaited offensive explosion the talents of Steve Grogan, Sam well and Joe Ferguson and Bob southern journey and the goals for will have to contain the Irish of the Irish. Cunningham, Darryl Stingly, Russ Chandler are a fine passing com­the Rebels if they are to upset the ground attack to set up "sure" Francis and the whole offensive bination, but they can't score more number three ranked Irish. When passing situations. It's the second­line. The defense boasts the names points than their sieve defense will
AP Top Twenty
Mississippi has the · ball: On and-three, third-and-two passes of Ray Hamilton, Steve Zabel, give up. Even though the Bills offense, coach Ken Cooper's club that sting a young secondary 1.. Michigan 42 1-0-0 1,162 Mike Haynes and Tim Fox. If have drafted defensive players in operates out of the high-rish op-because of the surprise element. If 2. S. Cal. 4 1-0-0 980 Hannah and Gray do play for the the past few seasons, their choices tion oriented veer-T attack. The Ole Miss can stop the Irish ground 3. Notre Dame 9 1-0-0 894 Pats this season, they could easily have yet to pan out. There will be Rebs have the backs to run the attack enough to force third-and-six 4. Alabama 1 1-0-0 771 go all the way. . excitment in Buffalo, but all too few veer as fullback James Storey is an type situations they will be better 5. Oklahoma 2 1-0-0 701 Baltimore Colts -the Colts, like the wins. accomplished blocker and half-able to set up the pass rush and 6. Ohio St. 1 1-0-0 647 Pats, are a talented and young New York Jets -Broadway Joe is 
l 
r backs Leon Perry and Freddie pass defense to protect their weak­7. Texas A&M 1-0-0 502 squad. The Colts are also having now in LA as the Jets begin to Williams are speed merchants. ness. Specialists: A bare-footed B. Texas Tech 1 1-0-0 498 contractual problems with some of rebuild in earnest. The Jets haveI Storey was voted the SEC's best punter? Ole Miss has one and he's 9. Houston 1 1-0-0 422 their star players. Though Roger been a downhill slide since they blocking back in pre-season honor a good punter. Jim Miller handles 10. Penn St. 1-0-0 375 Carr recently signed a new con­lost their playoff game to Kansas squads while Perry, at 220 pounds, the punting for Ken Cooper and his 11. Maryland 1-0-0 298 tract, DE John Dutton has not been City in 1969. Coach Lou Michaels I runs a 4.4 forty and averaged 5.8 40.3 yard average placed him third 12. Colorado 1-0-0 261 in camp and he is now asking to be will reverse this trend but he is not yards per rush last fall. Williams, in the SEC last fall. From 13. Miss St. 2-0-0 150 traded. Bert Jones is the star ofthe a miracle worker. The offense is
' -like Perry, broke in at mid-season placement, Ole Miss returns a 14. UCLA 0-l-0 111 Colt offense which includes the now in the hands of Richard Todd. last year, and averaged 4.4 yards nine-for-14 field goal kicker for 15. Okla. St. l-0-0 86 aforementioned Carr, Lydell Mit­He has an able corps of receivers, per ,-arry. those crucial three-pointers. 16. Pittsburgh 0-1-0 78 chell, Ray Chester and Glenn but unproven running backs. The 
Bobby Garner, a southpaw, will Dave Reeve moved into fourth-17. Georgia 1-0-0 76 Doughty. Defensively there are whole defensive unit is young. quaterback Ole Miss and his place on the all-time Irish scoring 18. Texas 1 1-0-0 72 some weak spots: Dutton will be Greg Buttle is a future star at LB. talents lie in hi, running and list with hi!> seven points against 19. Florida 1-0-0 42 missed at end, the MLB spot is This is a _.growing season for the ptiching abilitie, .. A below average Pitt. Reeve showed his mettle wilh 20. Brig. Young 1-0-0 34 open, and the secondary could be 
Icontinued on piiJle 11 ) 









