-------------------------------------~------~ 
Graduation ticket sellers: beware 
by Marti Hogan EdJtor·ln·Cbief 

Any student found selling grad­uation tickets wilJ be pulled out of the graduation ceremony, Dr. William Burke, assistant to the provost, announced recently. 
"It degrades the ceremony and the individual," Burke explained, adding that it breaks down what "we try to stand for." 
According to Burke, students may give away their tickets if they wish. He encourages students, however, to turn in their tickets· to the pool so as many students as possible may receive tickets through the lottery. He also encourages graduating MBA and law students to turn in any extra tickets to the pool. 
Burke was optimistic about the number of tickets that wilJ be available through the lottery. "I really do think we'll have some extra tickets," he said. 
Denying that the ticket system was instituted because of the increased demand for tickets to see President Carter, Burke said, "We'd have to go on a ticket system regardless of who gave the speech. There are just too many people this year.'' 
A number of seniors were sur­prised to find that all five gradua­tion tickets they received were for bleacher seats. In an April 1 letter from the Registrar's office, seniors were informed that two of their five tickets would be in padded seats. 
The letter read: "It has been determined that each graduate will be entitled to two adjacent, reser­ved tickets for the lower section of the arena with the location of the seats to be determined by lottery. '' 
Senior class President Rob Tully explained that the number of graduates returning for the cere­mony caused the miscalculation. "Usually there is a 90 percent return rate for graduates, but this year it is 97 percer~t." hi! said. 
According to Tully, 500 parents will be sitting in bleacher seats. 
"They shouldn't have promised us the tickets if they couldn't produce," one senior commented. 

an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's
Vol. XI, No. 125 Wednesday, May 4, 1977 
Co-ed Committee delivers recommendations 
Notre Dame should work toward undergraduate enrollment at its institutions. 
two, are enrolled. As a partial encourage this intereaction." 
an admissions policy of equal present figure, as recommended by Throughout the report, the com­remedy, it recommended that wo­Some of those recommendations access for men and women in the the Committee on University Prior­mittee expressed its concern that men be more evenly distributed in include: next five years. the Committee to ities in 1973. opportunities for social as well as multiple-section courses, particu­·• that high priority be given to Evaluate Coeducation recommend­The committee of five women academic interaction of men and 
larly seminar courses. huilrlina a ~e!'!t!'itU\i !~=-..•-" -•·· ..~ 
ed to University President Fr. and six men began its work in women students with each other --··-···o -. ----··J •'-"-au:;u .....uuent
••PAn'u"'...:­
·rL __ ..1 . _ 'I ''I 'I • . ...,.._...._auOg men and women center and that residence halls ; ;j~~~uorc lVI. HCShurgh. lll ItS ~eptemoer l'J to unaer tne cnatr· and with ac.tult men anel women be 
together is at the heart of coeduca­encourage a better social atmos­report submitted April 21. manship of Sr. John Miriam Jones, increased. 
tion," Sister John said. "Contin­phere.
The University had fixed an assistant provost. The group Academic achievement of Notre ued and varied interchanges with --that effort be increased tointerim goal of 1.500 goal women studied more than 500 question­Dame women has been high, the other men and women is absolutely ~ain, support and retain women as among 6. 700 undergraduates for naire responses from Notre Dame comreittee reported, but it noted essential to education for life. 
faculty members, _on residence hall 1976-77. The 'Committee acknow­and Saint Mary's College faculty with concern that classes still exist Many of the committee's specific staffs, in Campus Ministry and in ledged the benefits of controlled and students as well as 100 written · in which no women, or only one or recommendations are intended to [Continued on 
increase of women during the first interviews from women under­five years of coeducation, but it graduates at Notre Dame. registered serious concern about Based on application information the injustice of continuing an from the past five years, the admissions policy based on quotas committee predicted. that gradual rather than on qualifications. implementation over a five-year 
The committee also recommend­period of an equal access policy ed that the University reexamine would result in the 60:40 ratio of the rationale for stabilizing the men to women typical at peer 
Black cheerleader added to squad 
by Dave Rumbacb year. Opportunities for public and Mike Shields input were provided both before Staff Reporters and after this process. 
"Tryouts were the most open In a move ordered by University and the best they could have president Fr. Theodore Hesburgh been," John Reid assistant director 
. designed to create more minority of student activities said. "All representation on the 1977-1978 sectors of the university faculty, cheerleading squad, Bro. Just students and administration were Paczesny, vice-president for Stu­invited to express their opinions on dent Affairs, has appointed PhylJis two separate occasions, before and1 Washington to next year's squad. after publication.,-; A male student will be appointed 
Cheerleader co-captain Sue Olinlater to balance the squad. 
contacted Hesburgh Monday night. 
Paczesny stated in a May 3 news She stated, "He told me therelease, "The process of selecting cheerleading squad is a representa­cheerleaders this year was accom­tive body of the University and soplished according to the estab­should include a representation oflished guidelines that were known minority students. I feel that ifand accepted by all concerned. 
they are asking for a squad that isHowever, minority representation culturally balanced, then a fair and was missing from the newly valid tryout is not relevant. Thisselected squad and wishing to affair is unfortunate because of the 
Students choose various ways to prepare for fin~l exams. The more serious minded choose the library, while the carefree opt for the Senior Bar and its source of nourishment. [Photos bv Janet Carney] 


8 a.m. exams to continue 
by Jake Morrissey  of the committee,  stated  '"I am  Professor Bile's estimation  of the  
Staff Reporter  personally disappointed  that  the  situation.  "I think we showed no  
Academic Council didn't take our  favoritism whatsoever," she said.  
The  Academic  Council  has  recommendations.  While I realize  "I  would,"  Tack  continued,  

anticipate the new guidelines reached an "impartial agreement" that there wasn't a majority of ''like to see the continuation
formation of the tryouts was open
which will include minority stu­on the exam schedule, according to students w~o favored either one, I of 8 a.m. exams, but, in addition,
to public opinion. Minority repre­
dents, the appointment of Phyllis Professor Wiiliam Biles, Chairman think we should consider all possi­open up other 'Options."
sentation should have come up
Washington was felt by her peers of the Faculty Senate Evening bilities. I also realize that we have Tack also suggested that "if
before.
and by the Office of Student Affairs Exam Committee. to be noncommittal,'' she contin­there had been an 'I don't care' on
Other cheerleaders expressed
to be an asset to the prestigious Biles said that ''the present ued. ''In giving the survey, we the survey, it would have won."
'iimilar sentiments. Patty Kulik.
Notre Dame Cheerleading squad."· policy will be continued, perhaps bent over backwards to be In other action taken by the
said, •'I disagree totally with the
Following this year, Notre Dame indefinitely, despite the comittee' s impartial." Council, the opportunity to drop or
principle involved, but I have
will adopt a quota system for the recommendation that evening Patricia Tack, another student add a pass/fail class was shortened
nothing at all against Phyllis. I feel 
selectien of cheerleaders similar to exams be reinstated. Biles com­committee member, _agreed with from tendays to seven days.
the appointment of anyone to the
the rule requiring a St. Mary's mented, "that the Academic Coun­
squad detracts from the achieve­
student be placed on the squad. cil has made its decision and it
ment of making the squad."
Details of the system have not yet should be upheld.'' been announced. Joseph Cosgrove, next year's Biles is quick to indicate that the leprechaun, stressed that the
Washington, a black freshman committee is impartial. 
squad will accept the situation. "In all fairness," he said, "we
from Lewis FJall, had auditioned for the cheerleading position in the "We'll be a squad from the were an impartial tabulator. The 
beginning, ":..he said. 
regular spring tryouts, but failed to committee attempted, and I think make the squad. According to the Keith Tobias, president of the we succeeded, in remaining impar­cheerleader co-captain Pat· Bergin. Black Cultural Arts Commission, in tial. While we felt that the "She was good and she definitely a written statement compared the committee's report afforded the 
has talent. It could have gone Notre Dame community to a family greatest flexibility in scheduling either way." in which jt is "essential" and exams, the Academic Council is Methods of cheerleader selection "necessary" that the University correct in treating the report as a were revised and included in a "recognize the equal representa­recomme'ltiation." constitution drawn up earlier this tion of the members of its family.'' Nancy Cox, a student member 

'This is the 
last issue 
of 

The Observe, 

•\ the observer Wednesday, May 4, 1977 

---------OnCampus Today 
Wednesday 
4:30pm presentation, army rotc spring awards ceremony, mem. lib. aud. 
12:15 pm seminar, "tumorigenesis of 
·the frog kidney carcinoma" by dr. kenyon s. tweedell, dept of biology, sponsored 4:15 pm peter c. reilly lecture 8 pm musical, "fiddler on the 
3 pm concert, fred weldy,
roof", o'laughlin aud., $2 pianist, sponsored by niles music club scholarship, little theatre 
9:30-nazz benefit for logan 11 pm center, the neon wilde 7 pm rosary devotions, grotto, band, washington ·hall every day in may 
Sunday 

12:15 noon bicycle club ride to fort st. 
joseph, sponsored by nd 8 pm foreign film series, "Ia cycle touring club, meet at collectionneuse" by eric library circle, everyone rohmer, sponsored by welcome nd/smc theater, carroll hall 
The Observer is pub­lished Monday through Fri­day, except during the exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by students of the Univer­sity of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscrip. tions may be purchased tor 


WE PAY CASH!!! 
S20 per year (!10 per se­mester) from The Obser­ver, Box Q, Notre Dame, 

for color or black & white T.V.'s 
Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 

(we don't care if they work or not) 
The Observer is a mem­ber of the Associated Press. 

Call Western Electronics 288-1998
AI reproduction rights are reserved. 

1530 Western Ave. S. Bend 

by dept of microbiology, rm. 278, galvin aud. 
3:30pm seminar, "sound suppres­
4:15 
pm 

4:15 
pm 


-.: 
' 
5:15 pm 
6:30 pm 
sors for aircraft engine internal noise" by dr. 7 pm edward j. rice, nasa lewis research center, sponsored by aerospace & mech. eng., rm. 303, eng. bldg. 
lecture, "the birth of the phoenis: new ideas of man and self in d.h. lawrence" by james e. stewart, previ-7 pm ously lesotho, kenya, malawi, africa, sponsored by engl. dept., rare book rm., mem. lib. 7, 9 
peter c. reilly lecture series, "converting menthanol into gasoline-­
its reaction engineering as· 7:30pm film "cries and whispers"
" b d

pects Y. r. vern w. weedman_, Jr. rad.lab. conf. rm., contmues may 5 
mass, for all world hunger coal it ion tasters, walsh chapel, everyone welcome 
student government weekly forum, Ia fortune 

6:45pm meeting, al-alon fellowship for family & friends of 
.30

those with a drinking prob-9· lem, rm. 400, mem. lib. 
-11:30 pm nazz benefit for logan 
7 pm rosary devotions, grotto, (every day in May) 
7J 9 
& 11 pm film, "mahogany," span-sored by hunger coalition, eng. aud., $1 
8:15 pm concert, dennis bamber, 
saxophone and wi II iam cerny, piano, lib. aud. 
9:30 
-11:30 pm nazz benefit for logan & 11 pm 
center, john Steinman, bill  
boris, kevin chandler, burt  
geiseman, 50 cents.  
8 pm  
10 pm  lecture, "air-gas ratios  of  
vacuum-based inhilation  
techniques of tetra-hydra­cannibal mixtures and the  9:30  

effect on personal metabo-.-11:30 pm nazz benefit for logan 
lisms," by dr. n.c. nichols, deep space research group, fieldhouse, top row bleachers 
Thursday 
4 pm seminar, . IIers study of charge transter in aromatic' dipeptides" by dr. michael 
d. sevilla, oakland univ., rochester mich., sponsored by radiation lab, conf. rm., rad. lab. 
series, "the energy c~isis:: which route to a solutton? by dr. vern w. weedman, jr. rm. 127 nieuwland science hall 
lecture, "interpretation of carbonate rock sequences sedimentary or metamor­phis models?" by dr. brian 
w. logan, aapg visiting geologist, sponsored by dept. of earth sciences, rm. 101, earthsciences bldg. 
& 11 pm 

rosary  devotions,  grotto,  
every day in may  
film,  "love  and  death"  
sponsored  by  student 1  

union, eng. aud. admission $1 
I

by lngmar Bergman, spon­sored by iusb series on death & dying 
8 pm concert, music dept., little theatre 
8 Plh 

musical, "fiddler on the roof", sponsored by nd/smc theater, o'laughlin aud., admission $2 
center, dave shaheen, greg mandolini, 50 cents 
Friday 

4:30 pm1 lecture, "the complex 
7 
pm 7, 9 

structure in the spectrum of a uniform algebra" by nissim sibony, visiting prof. at tulane univ., sponsored by math dept., rm. 226 
ccmb  
rosary devotions, every day in may  grotto,  
film, "love sponsored  and by  death," student  

union, eng. aud. $1 

musical, "fiddler on the roof", o'laughlin aud., $2 
·· center, nd's 2nd jazz combo 50 cents ' 
Saturday 
9-12 noon 
7 pm car clinic, "how to--car 
clinic  for  women'',  spon­ 
sored  by  first  bank  and  
trust and  new car dealers,  

fieldhouse 

rosary devotions, grotlo, every day in may 

.or:,;.· . J"J. ·'.1.1 -·~·-·-· 


..........~--------------------~&~--------~·------~---------~~ 
. 

•t 1,,.' I·~ ..., :,.• .-. ~· •'.-. ft ' 
.·' 
Wednesday, May 4, 1977 the observer 
Addresses racial attitud~s 


Forum sponsored by BCAC 

by Kathleen Connelly 

A forum on racial attitudes sponsored by the Black Cultural Arts Center and the Student Go­vernment will be held this Sunday. at I p.m. in the Library Auditorium. 
The forum will consist of several brief presentations by the BCAC, CILA, the Student Government, and other concerned campus or­ganizations. The remainder of the forum will be open to students and faculty to exchange ideas about the recent protest by black students of racism at Notre Dame. 
Tom Soma, Student Govern­ment vice-president said, "we see the dialogue as a positive step toward understanding." 
"We realize that it's coming at a bad time but in order to capitalizeTwo weeks left and already students are beginning preparations on the situation and capture inter­for leaving. [Photos by Janet Carney] est and attention, it has to be now," he added. 
Teacher evaluation forms work 
In Mauret.•n Sajhcl ~~~~iur Staff Rep~1rter 
rhl' \1 Mar:-·.., teacher evalua­tion h'rlll'> di... trihutcd in classes at the cnd ot each ...emester have a potential importance that most ... tudent~ do not realize. The evalua­tions. aside from providing useful information to both the teacher and his or her department, may affect rank, tenure, and merit pay in­crease decisions in regard to facul­ty members. 
As stated in the governance manual for facu~ty, each teacher is evaluated in the areas of teaching, service to the college and profes­sional or published work when being considered for position and salary changes. The major in­strument in evaluating teaching abilities is the teacher evaluation formed filled out by the students several administrators noted. This information, therefore, is a widely used statistical indicator in as­sessing teaching abilities. 
Dr. Robert Schumm, chairman of the committee that designed the presently used form, believes that the evaluation results did affect merit pay increases, rank and tenure decisions, but he was un­sure as to what degree. 
When asked about the degree of importance the evaluations took, Sr. Elena Malits, chairman of the rank and tenure committee, de­clined to comment, stating that the information was confidential. She said the evaluations were ''one factor among many in the process strongly emphasized the important role that they felt the evaluations held in determining rank and tenure by saying that several of this year's faculty terminations were due to student evaluations. 
of  decision  making  by  the  
committee."  
Several  faculty  members  

Dr. William Hickey, vice presi­dent and dean of faculty, re­sponded to this claim by stating that "no termination decision is based entirely on information col­
lected  from  student  evaluation  
forms.''  
The  actual  importance  of  the  

evaluations was not stated by any 
administrative source in terms of 
percentages or weight of considera­
tion because of the confidentiality 
of the rank and tenure committee's 
decisions. 
The evaluation forms cover the areas of organization, clarity, grading, challenge, enthusiasm and concern of the teacher, the student's personal accomplishment and attitude, and an overall course and instructor rating. 
These forms, after being col­lected at the Registrar's Office are computerized and the results are given to the teacher, his or her department, Hickey, and placed in the teacher's file. Results are graphed in comparison to the college mean and the forms are returned to the individual teacher for review of the written comments. 
Faculty evaluations, in cases of promotion or termination, are not taken on an individual or class basis, but on patterns of eva)ua,.tion~ over a period of several years. Also considered in these cases are special evaluation forms sent to a random sampling of the teacher's students from the previous semes­ter or year. 
St. Mary's to strengthen frosh core requirements 
by Paula Carron concentrating in a more specific area of physics. Other than these 
In an effort to strengthen the changes the core curriculum stays system of core requirements for St. the same.-The two other sequences Mary's freshmen, four integrated passed by the council will be sequences have been passed by the offered second semester. Academic Affairs Council. "The courses were approved by 
"The idea is to have sixty the council for only one year," Sr. freshmen experience at least one of 1 Eva explained. ''These are just on the four integrated sequences," I an experimental basis.'' After next stated Sr. Eva Hooker, the leader year the courses will be evaluated 
of the team who recommended the 
on the terms of how the students proposals to the council. like them and what they learned. Two of the four sequences to be 
These core curriculum changesimplemented next semester in­were suggested by a team composedclude two sets of tandem courses. 

of an administrator, a student andEach course in the tandem se­faculty from different departmentsquence is worth three credit hours and different professional ranks. 
and fulfills the core requirements. 
. One tandem will combine Greek . "It's been a wonde_rful exl?e~t-
The evaluation forms, though highly researched and designed
S M · 

specifically for t. ary s are seen as fallible. 
literature and philosophy while the ence," stated Sr. Eva m explammg , Traffic and Parking Appeals for other will investigate twentieth her role as team leader, ''and. very the 1977.78 academic year are now century literature and philosophy. rich in terms of working wtth a being accepted. These positions
The second sequence, offered lJy team and talking about our ways of are open to all students. . the science department involves 
teaching." The deadline for submitting an two consecutive semesters of phys­Any incoming freshman c~n application isS p.m. tomorrow, and ics. The fundamentals of physics chose the tandem or sequentt~l forms are available in the Student will be covered in the first semester ·courses which will be explained m Government offices. followed by the spring semester the freshmen manual. 
Th r ose of the forum as seen mam theme of his editorial byby t~ep~tAC is to establish what stating "students come here with the prevalent racist attitudes on one set of values. Th~y take campus are and to determine the courses that serve only to remforc~, reasons and causes for the exis-not challenge these val~es. Net­tence of such attitudes. Through ther do students enroll m co~rses meaningful discussion the BCAC that enable them to expenence hopes that the forum will raise the non-Western cultures and !hey are consciousness while revealing the no encouraged .~Y academtc coun­integrity of the Notre Dame selors to do so. . . nl.t Dr. Stewart advocates mmortty
commu y. . ff · f 
Keith Tobais, president of the studies. as an .e ecttve way o BCAC cited the responsibility of expandmg o_ne ~ awareness, but University students as members of adds t~at 1t IS not the only a nationally and globally prominent alternattve. institution to be among those Students are strongly . encou~­taking steps toward resolution of ag~~ to atten~ ~nd to votce their racial tensions. optntons on th1s tssue. 
"In all of the literature distri­buted about Notre Dame, there is constantly mentioned the word O'Neill to say 'spirit' and the phrase 'Notre Dame is a special place.' Because of this Shuster Mass 
and because we are parts of the A Memorial Mass for Dr. George whole Notre Dame experience," he N. Shuster will be said at 10 a.m. continued, "we feel that we as Saturday, May 14, in Alumni Hall students must project the very Chapel. Rev. Daniel O'Neil. essense of the Christian ethical C.S.C., will be the celebrant, and spirit in establishing the fact t~at Father Thomas McDonougl'l, Notre Dame is a very, very spectal C.S.C., will preach. Rev. Theodo ·e place to be for all people." Hesburgh will say a brief prayer <Jt 
Dr. James Stewart, director of graveside following the mass. biack studies said that he hopes the Friends and associates of the late 
forum "will start a dialogue among director of the Center of Man. students and help root out t'nstt'tu-U · · t t d L t 
mverstty rus ee an ae are
tiona! racism." Medalist are welcome to attend the Stewart also re-emphasized the 1· 
Schumm cited the problems as •---------------·tt•u•rg;;);.'·-----------,
being the timing of the evaluations . 
and the ''horn and halo effect.'' The forms are believed to be partly inaccurate due to the end of the year pressure and student's lack of care to spend time on a detailed and objective evaluation of the course and teacher. Many of the students are said to be non-discri­minating or either give an all-posi­tive or all-negative evaluation of the teacher, hence the term "horn and halo effect.'' 
Other variables that affect eval­uations are student grade point averages, expected grades, sex and whether or not the course is required or in the major. 
According to statistics compiled by Schumm based on last semes­ter's evaluations, students with high grade points and those ex­pecting high grades consistently rated the instructors and courses high. Both males and females rated instructors equally, but fe­males rated the course on the whole slightly higher. 
Courses and instructors of cour­ses described as "major, not required" rated highest, while "non-major, required" courses and their instructors ranked lowest. These statistics reinforce the the­ory that students give higher ratings tocoursesthey want to take and are doing well in. 
On the whole, students tend to rate instructors and courses highly. 
On a scale of one to six the compiled statistics list the mean for both instructors and courses in the range of 4.13 to 5.35. 
The result of these evaluations are noted as useful because of their statistical nature and way of ob­taining comparable information on each teacher, but many faculty members question their role in rank, tenure and salary decisions. 
Because the forms are a contro­versial issue, and because of the weight or possible weight they can carry in making these decisions, students are encouraged by the faculty and administration to fill the forms out honestly and write in comments for the teacher's per­sonal use. 
Judicial Board positions open 

Applications for positions on the University Judicial Board, the Ap­1 peals Board, and the Board of 
Holy Cross/McCandless HaP.PY Hour 
Kubiaks • this Friday, May 6 4-7pm $1.50 • pitcher 
•
seniors.•. tired of going to bar sp~cials that run out at 10:30? tired of going to bars crowded wit freshmen and sophomores where you can't even get to the bar? well, then, come to the senior bar 
this week it's our final regular week openuntil senior week. · see you then 
• and thariks for coming all.ear. f) 
. '.' ' ' ' ' ' ...-. ' 
St. Mary's Night at Senior Bar 


MAY 5 Thurs. 9-1 with SMC ID & Bar card 
1 mixed drink 25 cents Gin & Tonics, Screwdrivers, 7 ? 7'5 , 50' cents all night long 111111 
., .....""'f.. 
the observer Wednesday, Mav 4, 1977 
Bars offer specials 




Dunes trip, Trudeau highlight Senior week 
by Jim Kotorac 
Senior week, an annual four days of events for seniors, will be held this year from Monday, May 16 throughThursday, May 19. 
In accordance with the selection of Senior Class Fellow, Garry Trudeau, each day of activities is named after a Doonesbury character. 
Monday is Doonesbury day highlighted, by a try to the Warren Dunes~ Transportation will be provided by bus and a cook-out is scheduled for the afternoon. Maps of the exact location of the picnic can be picked up in the Student Activities Office or in room 115 Sorin on Friday, May 13. No beer will be allowed at the Dunes, because it is a state park. For further information about the trip call AI O'Gorman at 8460. 
Monday evening will feature specials at Fat Wally's. Exact times and prizes for specials all week can b~ found in today's Observer ad. 
Tuesday, B.D. day, will include a tennis tournament featuring men's mixed, and women's doubles com­petition. 
The annual senior coed golf tournament will also be held on this day. Contestants in the tourna­
ments must sign up by S p.m. on Friday, May 13 in the Student Activities Office. Any questions concerning the tennis tournament should be directed to Steve Plain 3662 or Ellen Calahan 6 798. Address golf questions to Torn Williams at 287-0241. 
A beach party will be held at St. Joseph Lake from noon until 6 p.m. The sailing team will have three sail boats available for rides. Music, refreshments, hot dogs, hamburgers, canoes, races, and games will be provided for a minimal 
Grad departments considered 'secondary' to undergrad 
by Kathy Mills Executive Editor 
"The quality of graduate stu­
dents attracted to Notre Dame has, 
by institutional self-admission, ne­
ver equaled that of undergradu­
ates. Institutional priorities, finan­
cial resources, library holdings, 
and other such factors reinforce the 
secondary role of graduate studies 
at South Bend. This is not to say 
that graduate programs and gradu­
ate students fail to measure up to 
acceptable standards •for a doctoral•, 
institution. They are certainly 
adequate, but not superior." 
''Preoccupation with undergrad­
uate instruction leaves graduate 
studies in an amorphous state and 
deprives them of the analytical 
attention they need.'' 
These quotes are taken from the 
North Central Accreditation Report 
written in 1974 by an evaluation 
team from the Commission on 
Institutions of Higher Education of 
the North Central Association of 
Colleges and Secondary • Schools. 
The evaluation team visited the 
Tlniversity March 18 through 20, 
: ·17-l, and the report was published 
in Notre Dame Report of Nov. lS, 
1974. 
But graduate education at Notre D:tme has irnprel\'ed since then and 11 iJ: improve more1in the next three to five years, according to Dr. Robert E. Gordon, vice-president for advanced studies. The im­provements have and will come has a result of recommendations from departmental self-evaluations and analyses by reviewers from outside the University. 
The value of these internal and 
external evaluations was recog­
nized even before the NorthCentral 
Accreditation evaluation team 
made their report to the University. 
They were first commended by the 
Committee on University Priorities 
(COUP) in 1973. 
The COUP Report recom­mended, " ...the Office of Advan­ced Studies should initiate a cycle of quinquennial evaluations of each graduate program by scholars from without the department and the University. This regular, outside review will help us to re-assess all of our graduate offerings, and will serve to prevent any unhealthy intertia. COUP further recom­mended, "That the faculty in each graduate program study the areas of specialization within the pro­gram, to make a cautious, long­range determination of strengths,· resources, competing schools, trends in the scholarly field, etc., and eventually, in consultation with the -Dean of the College and the Vice\President for Advanced Stu­dies to elaborte a profile of specia­lizations, indicating where it is intended that resources will be clustered to attain concentrations of excellence.'' 
As a result of these recommen­dations, the main purpose of the evaluations, especially of the out­side reviews, is to "get us to take a look at the programs and reduce the number of specializations in which we . can be outstanding," Gordon said. He pointed out that education is that the resources are spread too thinly over a large area of studies. This problem has its roots in the 1960's, when money for graduate studies was plentiful and more areas in the field of graduate education could be covered. How ever, money is not as plentiful now, so it is often spread "too thin," Gordon noted. This problem is not limited to Notre Dame, he said; it is nation -wide. 
"We m'-tst reduce the number of specialities so we can put more money into any one area,'' he said. ''Our goal is a refining and definition of areas in which we will be outstanding and to build up our resources m those areas," he added. 
Several outside review reports have also recognized this problem in graduate education at Notre Dame. For example, reports of the external reviewers of the Graduate Department of Government and International Studies, of the exter­nal reviewers of the Graduate Program in Philosophy, of the review committe'e for the Graduate Programs in Aerospace and Me­chanical Engineering, and of the Graduate History External Review 
[continued on page 8] 

Mulcahy outlines dormitory checkout procedures 
by Mark Perry Staff Reporter 

Fr. John Mulcahy, director of housing outlined the procedures for checking out of dormitory rooms at the close of this semester. 
All students, with the exception of seniors and their relatives at the university who will be staying for graduation, must be out of their rooms no later than noon on 
Wednesday, May 18. Mulcahy also 
aid that students should leave as . 
jOOn as possible so that rooms can 
Je prepared for parents attending 
:he graduation. He asked that everyone should try to clean up as much as possible before they leave to save the custodial staff some time in cleaning the rooms. 
Before leaving, students must return their room and mail keys to the rector, no later than May 23. If keys are not received by that time, the student will be SS 
key. Students are urged to use the key envelopes that will be pro­vided, and to watch for notices indicating the collection place for keys in their hall. Also all beds must be debunked and all furni­ture must be returned to its original room. Mulcahy said that the student should make sure they take all personal belongings out of their rooms, because there is no guaran­tee that they will be able to find items left behind next semester. 
After students have left, the rectors will inspect the rooms for any damage or missing articles. Mulcahy said that fines are only levied if there is major damage or some large article is missing. All senior fines will come out of the room deposit, and all underclass­men will be billed for their dama­ges. Room deposit refunds will be issued after the room condition reports are received and processed by the housing office, usually mid July. 
fee. No alcohol is allowed on 
campus in public places and this 
includes the beach. Buzz Reynolds 
(288-S8S8) will answer questions. 
BridgetMcGuire'swill host senior 
specials on Tuesday evening. 
On Wednesday, Zonker Day, activities will center around Senior Bar. Happy Hour will be from 1 until 6 with 30 cent beers all day. the bar will close for two hours and re-open from 8 p.m. until 2 in the morning offering gin and tonics for SO cents. Hotdogs and hamburgers will also be available all day. 
A softball tournament will also be held on Wednesday with a single­elimination coed tournament starting at 9 a.m. Each team must include three girls on the field at all times. Teams must consist of ten to twelve players. All games will take place across from Senior Bar, with the championship game played late in the afternoon. Teams must be registered by S 
p.m. on Friday, May 13 at the Student Activities Office. 
A picnic will kick offThursday, Garry Trudeau Day, with the famed cartoonist in attendance. The picnic, next to Stepan Center from 
2 p.m. until7 p.m. will include beer for ten cents-and hotdogs for 20 cents. All are invited to participate in picnic games and races. Seniors are asked to wear their class T-shirts (with Zonker on the front) as a welcoming gesture. Trudeau will address the class that night at 8 p.m. in front of Haggar Hall. A reception will follow at Senior Bar. Call Ron Hathaway, 8288, for questtons concerning Senior Fellow. Senior Bar will be open Thurs­day from 1 p.m. until 6 p.m. Beer will cost 30 cents and 7 & 7's SO cents. The Library will also offer specials that evening. Anyone interested in helping with Senior Week should call John Clemency at 1772. 

Now Icelandic Airlines has a better Wf!Y for you to go to Europe if you can't go alone: New Horizons escorted group youth tours for young people 17 through 25. Each tour includes round-trip air fare between New York or Chicago to Luxembourg, private motorcoach transporta­tion, hotel (or pension) accommodations, most meals, sightseeing, full-time escort, all local taxes and more. Special group departures also available. 
FRANCE 15 days-$824-$842* Features a 7 day stay with a local family. Perfect for the beginning language student. 
EUROPEAN LANDSCAPES 
24 days-$1,234-$1,252* An excellent introduction to 7 European countries. 
EUROPEAN EXPLORER 
19 days-$1,069-$1,087* A study of lifestyles, from the sophistication of London and Paris to the tranquility of the Swiss Alps. 
GERMANY 15 days-$829-$847* Features an 8 day stay with a local family. Perfect for the beginning language student. 
ALLROADSLEADTOROME 
15 days-$896-$916* An indepth study of Rome and Florence and their famous sights. 
PARIS and the IBERIAN ADVENTURE 
21 days-$1,173-$1,191* A contrast of cultures: the tr~dition of Spain and the romance of Paris. 
Your mother isn't 
the only one who thinks 
you shouldn't see 

Europe alone. 
rke~ilicMrli~ne;.#c;-----------,
I 18 S. Michigan Ave., Chicago, IL 60603 I I See your travel agent. Or call toll free: (800) 223-5390. I I Please send mfonnation on these and other youth tours to I
1 Europe. I 
I Name I
I I ~~~ I I I
1 City !State Zip I L•Prices effective April 1 and subject to change without notice. 


---------------------J 



Icelandic 
Lowest Jet fares to Europe of any scheduled airline. 

part of the problem with graduate 
............................................~----2--------------------------.----~~~­
--~ 
---•clip and.save·--­

I 
I 
I 
I 
CD
::.. 
a 
ut 
-o
c: 
a 
Q.
..... 
u 
I 
I 
I 
I 
(Monday May 16) 

DUNES TRIP 
1:00 • 5:00pm 

Cook-out All Day 
(hotdogs & soda will be provided) 
Maps will be available in Student Activities & Rm 115 Sorin on Friday May 13 Call AI (8460) for info 
fLAY/
BAL-L. 


Fat Wally's 
Monday May 16 
25¢ MIXED 
DRINKS 

77t; p~~~~Rs 
10 . 12 
25¢ 
The library
Thursday May J9 



25¢ $1.00
7 & 7's 
7 • 11 PITCHERS Midnight drawing lor Free Gift 
FRI. SAT. 20 & 21 FREE GT.ASS OF CHAMPAGNE FOR EVERY MOTHER 
~·-·~ ;:., '-'···.-:·· ··~ t,t .. "t'\ • C ' ; I -.. C. ~ 

DRAFTS 10 · 12 
Senior Bar 
Wednesday, May 18 30~ beers 
50¢ G $ T's 
HOTDOGS* HAMBURGERS GAMES 
fie[ WEIRDOI STANO RJRtuARo'
/ . 


B.D. Day 
(Tuesday M 
. GO ay l7J 
~ J o:.~~fl TOURNlMF
·.·,J;¥·AJ.-=, ~laying ENT

times will srde of St d be posted · 
u ent "ct• . • out.
Th H

e uddle. ·~ rvrhes and in 
. Coed Golf Tourne Co// Tom (287 0 y 
TENNIS roi.J~~ lor info Competition w·1-1 b . AMENT mens and w ' e '" m·•xed,
c II ' omens do bl
a Steve (3662 , u es. Sign-u sh /. or Ellen (6798) z 
letter P an;et~ are available in ror info Must be turn •; . Student Activ~~ws. in Student e.. !n by Frida res. 
254 F I Actrvrhes or 432 y May 13 
.sEA"Cf~fPAR~~ey; 
12:oo . 
6 .00
Sailin • . Pm ST. JOE LAKE · 
g, mus,c, refresh hamburgers ments, hotdogs 
, canoes, races & , Col/ Buzz (288-5858) z • games 
ror Info 
Bridget McGuires 
Tuesday May J7 

25t; Drafts 2 for 1 Mixed Drinks 
Trudeau Day 
(Thursday May 19) 

ALL AFTERNOON PICNIC 
2 • 7pm next to Stepan Center 
Games & Races 

Beer· JO¢ Hotdogs • 204 
Wear your Zonker T-Shirfs in honor of Garry Trudeau f f 
. ' ' . ~-:~-'il -:t ~-~.-·:~-~ 

I 
I 
n I•
-
"a-· 
Q
:a 
a.. 
. I I 
~ 
< j
CD 
j
I 
II j 
j j j 
j j j 
j j j 
j j j j 
j 
j 
j 
j j j j 
j ' j j I j 
I J 
I j 
Ij 
~-~-. . -_,._-. :'·' ., ~""""""". ''18 1
-.. -............. --......----~---......,..~-~--~----) 
j 
' """\· .. ·-~-;, • .-.." ,..,f-).
.. • .... l·~t.·Y: ... , ._-•..• 
---·--------------.. -----­

~-­
~----the observer Wednesday, May 4, 19n• 


! -Wa.tergate subject of first Frost -Nixon talk 
{ WASHINGTON [AP] -The televi-Watergate portion for interviewer get from selling seven minutes of quotation is in an early transcript The transcript makes finding the 
sion audience watching the first David Frost. commercials locally. marked "Final. .. of reduced audi­:ontext difficult. The portionl post-resignation interview of "I believe viewers will feel that · Mickey Johnson, president of bility'' and that a corrected version referred to in the Post story said: l Richard M. Nixon about Watergate this confrontation tests the Nixon Syndicast Services, Inc., which later did not contain the hush President: Unintelligible) God t probably won't include the former accounting of Watergate in the way distributed the programs in the money reference and, indeed, did damn hush money, uh, how are we l president. and with the intensity that it should United States, said all five com­not involve any talk about going to (unintelligible). How do I "His practice in the past has be treated," said Frost, a British . mercial minutes are sold for to­Watergate. we get this stuff (unintelligible) 
been not to watch himself on television personality. · night's show, but one minute of Part of the Jan. 8 conversation with Kennedy said (unintelligible). 
I 
television," Nixon's top aide said Frost reportedly paid Nixon yesterday in San Clemente, Calif. $600,000 and promised a percen­l "After all," continued the aide, tage ofthe profits.. The Watergate Col. Jack Brenan, "he did this interview, first of four programs to taping for 28114 hours. He knows be shownjn succeeding weeks, will what he said." go on the air at 7:30p.m. EDT over Others who know what Nixon most of the stations that agreed to 1 said predict a dramatic show carry it. tonight. The 155 stations that will carry 
I l 
"In ·the early part of the pro-the programs are doing so on the gram, his Watergate defense was barter system: Frost will get shattered and the interest part $125,000 for each of five minutes of ' follows from there," said James national advertisements. The sta­Reston Jr., who researched the tions can pocket the revenue they
t 
~ 
Carter economic program authorized by the House 
WASHINGTON [AP] -Congress 
completed action yesterday on the 
first of President Jimmy Carter's 
economic stimulus programs when 
the House agreed to authorize a $4 
billion public works jobs program. 
Sponsors said at least 300,000 
jobs would be created in public 
works projects such as construction 
of hospitals. jails, schools and 
roads, and predicted thousands 
more jobs would be created 
indirectly_ 
The House passed the\ bill by a 
335-77 vote. 
Sr. Trip deposit deadline May 9 
byChris.Datzman Senior Staff Reporter 
Next year's Senior Class Trip to San Francisco will be from Oct. 23 to Oct. 28. Previously the trip had been extended two nights until Oct. 30, however, the cost of the extension would be more than the trip committee had anticipated. 
The. $275 package will include air fare, hotel accornodations for six days and five nights, and free car rental with unlimited mileage. The price also includes transportation to and from the airports, but does not include meals. 
According to Tom O'Neill, chair­man of the senior class trip committee, all students who wish to go on the trip must make a $50 deposit by May 9. 
"If people are planning to wait until next year to sign up -they shouldn't because they'll probably find themselves left out," he said. ''Last year there were some places left over, but we can't guarantee that this year.'' 
O'Neill emphasized that it is important for seniors to make their deposits as soon as possible in the LaFortune lobby between 2 p.m. and 5 p.m. Students can post-date checks to June 15 if it is necessary. The $50 deposit will not be returnable. 
"The University has to guaran­tee the cost of the planes and we can't get it back," O'Neill ex­plained.\:'Since we have\to reserve the planes now, no deposits will be returned.'' 
O'Neill also expressed concern that not all members of the senior class, in particular the band mem· bers, will be able to participate, despite the return to the original trip dates. 
"Even though the trip will only be until Oct. 28, members of the band still have to be in Socth Bend for a mandatory band practice that morning," O'Neill said. "We're really sorry that things worked out this way, but there was no way that we could work things differently." 
The band has to perform that Saturday during the half-time of the Notre Dame-Navy game. 
Also oc sale in the LaFortune lobby are the juniors class t-shirts. The shirts cost $3 and feature the theme "Bustin' Out," patterned after the Pure Prarie League album • cover. 
Both the House and the Senate already have passed legislation Providing the actual funds to carry out the new economic stimulation program, but differences in those two appropriations bills must be 
worked out by a conference com­mittee. The House appointed its conferees yesterday. The Commerce Department al­
ready has agreeri to quickly adopt necessary regulations on how the money will be used so that funds can begin flowing during the heighl of this year's summer construction season. 
Congress passed a similar $2 billion public works jobs bill las1 year but that money was exhaus­ted. The additional funds will b{ distributed along the same lines as the earlier funds, with the bulk of the money going to areas with the worst unemployment. 
The allocation forumla is based 65! percent. on the actual number of persons without jobs within each state and 35 percent on the state's rate of unemployment above 6.51 

advertising time still is unsold in was played for the jury in the Colson: The point is that the only each of the other three programs. Watergate coverup trial of Nixon's what those guys (unintelligible) Those programs deal with the aides, but the portion in question they really (unintellible) five years foreign and domestic affairs, in­'Vas not. (unintelligible). cluding the Vietnam war and the dissent it brought. and the fourth 
Dean R1·ce outll·nes overall 
show is on Nixon's final days in the White House. 
s 
Frost gained massive advance 
tudent A f~a,·rs program
publicity this week when previously 

unpublished transcripts of re-by Jean Powley 
cordings from the secret White St. Mary's Editor 
House taping system were 

disclosed. St. Mary's Department of Stu-
Nixon strenuously objected to a dent Affairs is presently circulating story Sunday in The Washington a position paper containing the Post and has demanded a retrac-department's goals, philosophy, tion. Executive Editor Benjamin assumptions and future directions Bradlee said the Post stands by its to gather student, facultv and story. administration input. · 
The newspaper story focused on a reference to "hush money" in the The paper's author, Kathleen 
· f Rice, dean of student affairs.
transcrtpt o a conversaiton Nixon 

· h h' 'd Ch w explained that the reason for
had wtt ts at e, aries · 

Colson, on Jan: 8, 1973. It said the writing and circulating such a 
transcript showed "Nixon was paper is to use it as a vehicle for 
reaction to smdcht affairs' policies

keenIY aware that these payments were central to the cover-up . ., and programs. . Nixon's la,vyers ma:ntain the -"Your reaction to the paper will 
,.----;-;::iiiiiiiii;;--, serve its basic purpose: togive the 

percent. However, each state willI 
684-6991. 
get a minimum of $30 million. 

BROTH.eRS OF·­HOtv· CROSS 
-li"·s 1 dlft#J..IeM9#t edocat/ona/, healtb­
eoclal~puttnl .,.W-t)flttl·· 
..we.·mrntlfrfes. 

,_____________.......________-.___......,. 
SUMMER STORAGE 
SAFE, EASY,• INEXPENSIVE+ CLOSE TO CAMPUS ON US31 
At: MASTER MINI-WAREHOUSES self-Service Storage Open 7 Days. Located iust north of State line Telephone: 683-1959 or 
college community an opportunity to participate in the long-overdue assessment of the Department of Student Affairs," Rice told acade­mic department chairmen in a letter accompanying their copies of the paper. 
Other copies of the paper will be distributed to resident advisors and hall directors this week_ Students may request to see their RA or hall director's copy or may
pick one t R' ' ffi
up a tee s o tee.
''If need b ·11 -t
e we wt rewn e certain sections of it. We just want reactions,'' Rice said. 
The p(lSt.tt'on paper t" part of the 
· · s department's overall program to integrate its various offices and define its goals. 
GRAND OPENING 
Wed., 'May 4 DRINK WITH TfiE HAMM'S BEAR !! 
Reduced prices -Free T -shirts 
Free giveaways -Much More 
Wednesday, May 4, 1977 the observer 

Survey results assess . needs of SMC stu-dents 
by Jean Powley St. Mary's Editor 
Results of a survey to assess the needs of St. Mary's stude!lts are now . in the process of being finahzed and evaluated, according to Dr. Penny Jameson, assistant professor of psychology. 
Administration and evaluation of the survey was the semester project of a psychological research class for psychology majors and minors. Class members collected 
all of the data themselves and are now analyzing the results. 
A three-step procedure was used to determine primary areas of need. 
A series of personal interviews followed by short-answer, open­ended questionaires served to pin­point mdjor areas of student con­cern. This data then generated a final questionaire of 97 items which was administered to a random sample of 200 students. All 200 

completed and returned the survey. 
Each student answering the questionaire was asked to evaluate the major areas of her life at St. Mary's including: personal, aca­demic and social needs. 
Preliminary results indicate that while SO percent of the freshman responding were most satisfied with their social development at St. Mary's, the number of seniors satisfied socially drops to six 
Kuhn claims society is 'sick' 
by Michael Lewis Staff Reporter 
.. 
Yesterday Maggie Kuhn, foun­der of the Grey Panthers, spoke on what she called '·A New Age of Freedom and Self-Determination." A large crowd was present in the Library Auditorium to witness the closing of this year's forums on aging. 
Kuhn centered her talk around this "New Age" and branded society as ''sick.·· 
"There is an intimate connec­tion between personal health and the health of society. I'm convin­ced that many elderly people are made sick by society, and wei will not be made well until there are changes in our society.'' she said. 
She gave several instances of "sickness" in society. She de­clared that the health care system is ''sick,'' noting that it does nothing to prevent disease. she also called most hospitals "mu­seums of disease." She then condemned the welfare system, housing progams and age segre­gated housing programs. 
Kuhn discussed approprite acti­vities for elderly people calling, them to be social critics and testers of new lifestyles. "I wish for a strong commitment to a coopera­tive way of life. We need each other.'' she said. 
She also called upon the older generaltion to use their freedom, 
Free University 
needs teachers 
Registration for Free University began yesterday in the LaFortune Ballroom and will continue today from 8:30 am until 4:30 pm. Teachers are desperately needed to teach auto mechanics. bridge, and an intra to photography course. Anyone interested in teaching should call 283-7757 anytime this week. 
Motorcycle rider hurt near ACC 
A collision between a motorcycle and a car driven by a Notre Dame student on Juniper and Dorr roads at approximately 11 p.m. Sunday left the driver of the motorcycle and his son injured. 
According to the St. Joseph County Sheriff's Department, a 1972 Chevrolet driven by Mark Janko pulled out of a parking lot near the ACC onto Juniper road, and was struck by a northbound Honda motorcycle driven by Otis Romine. Janke reported that he did not see the Romine vehicle. Romine maintained that Janko railed to yeild the right of way. 
Romine and his son, also riding on the motorcycle, were taken to the hospital for injuries. No tickets were issued. 
Featured exhibit lasts till Sunday 
A graduate thesis art exhibit is being featured from now until this Sunday in the O'Shaughnessy Art Gallery. A reception from 1 p.m. ­S p.m. this sunday will conclude experience and knowledge to bridge the generaltion gap and be "healers of a sick society." 
Kuhn mentioned what she called the "five myths of old age." noting that society has deemed old age as being powerless. useless. mindless and a disease. 
She also rejected the idea that old age is sexless saying. ''I'm here to say that it is not. Sex can find appropriate expression at any age." 

She spoke of old age as "the flowering of life" and called man­datory retirement at age 65 ..a 
tremendous social wa~e." ''We who are old have a tremendous 
social obligation to be leaders of the tribe. concerned about the tribe's survival," she said. 
She energetically expressed her hope that the meeting would be a rallying point to sent us forth to be carriers of this new message of life that has no bounds." 
Co-ed Softball sign-ups 
Sign-ups for teams participating in the Senior Coed Softball Tourna­ment are now being taken in the Student Activities office· in the lobby of LaFortune. Team captains may sign up from 9 a.m. until S 
p.m. beginning today until Mon­day, May 16. 
The tournament will be held on May 18, Wednesday of Senior week. Teams should consist of ten players and a maximum of 2 substitutes. There must also be a minimum of three girls on the field at all times. The games will last for 7 innings and equipment (with the 

You'll save more than a wee bit of the green with these handsome imports! Sparkling clear and generously sprinkled with shamrocks for good luck, they're yours in all the most wanted sizes from the 1 oz. liqueur to the 8 oz. Irish Coffee with the recipe right on it! From the Schmid Collection. 

exception of gloves) will be sup­plied. Prizes will be awarded to the winners and runners-up. 
Only the team captain need sign up, and must supply a team name. 
The Senior Club will be open during the afternoon to sell refresh­ments and food for players and spectators. 
Team captains may also sign up for the tournament by contacting Ken Girouard at 3322 or Eric Schneider at 1772 before May 16. All seniors are urged to participae in the event. 

Box of 6: . Reg.  
A) 1 oz. liqueur B) 2 oz. shot glass C) 5 oz. cocktail D) 8 oz. old fashion (2 patterns) E) 3 oz. sherry F) 8 oz. brandy (3 patterns)  $12.00 $10.00 $13.00 $12.00 $12.00 $17.50  

G) 8 oz. Irish Coffee (with or without recipe) Box of 6: $16.50 Box of 2: $ 7.20 
H) 10oz. Beer Mug $ 1.70ea. 
Now $ 9.00 $ 7.50 $ 9.75 $ 9.00 $ 9.00 $13.10 
$12.35 $ 5.40 $ 1.25 ea. 

Notre Dame Bookstore 

percent.  tual activities at St. Mary's. Twenty  
Seventy-six percent of students  eight disagree citing too much  
expressed a need for more social  emphasis on academics.  
space on St. Mary's campus, while  The survey's results will be  
84 percent felt that the college's  used to assist the administration in  
alcohol policy should be relaxt:d.  establishing goals, setting priori- 
Competition at St. Mary's makes  ties and sharing future directions  
students push themselves to great- which are consistent with student  
er levels of achievement, according  needs.  
to 25 percent of the students  Dean of Student Affairs  
surveyed, while 21 percent felt that  Kathleen Rice said. "I want to  
competition at the college is stron­ know what the students have to  
ger in students' minds than it is in  say. I don't care if it's all negative.  
actuality.  I just want to know."  
The quality of academics at St.  The survey's results will be  
Mary's attracted 42 percent of the  available for examiniation by stu­ 
surveyed students. while 27 per- dents, faculty and staff in the  
cent came here because they know  psychology department office or in  
St. Mary's or Notre Dame students  Rice's office at the end of final  
or alumni.  exams.  
Finally, 42 percent of the stu- Student chairman of the survey  
dents feel that they have been able  project is MaryEstherHall, a junior  
to maintain a balanced program of  double major~ng in psychology and  
s.:-cial, athletic, academic and spiri­ nursing.  

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
STUDENTS 
Help us help others ... place your useable clothing and other small items in the containers provided in your hall. To arrange for pick up of furniture or other large items, please call 234 -6000. St. Vicent DePaul Society 230 E. Sample South Bend, Indiana 
Wood 
comes to life. 


It begins with the charming and peaceful designs of talented Spanish artist Juan Ferrandiz, famed for 
his ability to capture the timeless appeal of chil­dren and animals. Then the skilled hands of Anri woodcarvers, working high in the Italian Alps, give life-like dimension to the artist's creation. Carved and painted hy hand, the finished figurine is a col­lector's delight. Come and S'"'h ...,.,.a.--1 sec the parade of all the U U I llU Ferrandiz favorites~ 
~NRI 
Notre Dame Bookstore 
the exhibit. 
.,. ·~~· 


the observer Wednesday, May 4, 1977 
': 
County residents not endangered by PBB 
by Mary Ellen Keenan November that about 30,000 cattle, gaps, poor balance, and hand and dant) and state officials knew Indiana residents concerned about 
1.5 million chickens, countless eye coordination problems. Other virtually nothing of its health the situation. 
St. Joseph County residents other farm animals, and tons of farmers have complained of le­effects. "We sampled milk from around need not worry about a potential produce were contaminated and thargy, hair loss, skin lesions, Because St. Joe County borders the state in '73." Kimble stated," cancer causing substance known as had to be destroyed. Michigan arthritis-like symptoms, irritability, Michigan.area residents have been ''but there's been no testing since PBB (polybrominated Byphrenyls) farmers lost hundreds of millions of depression and diminished sexual concerned about possible conta­then. We have strong reason to say which has spread through dollars as a result of this simple interest. mination of the products they it's confined to Michigan. and they Michigan's agricultural food chain. mistake. -Forty-one percent of mothers purchase from local supermarkets. have isolated and monitored all the 

Last November a field study living in the Upper Peninsula and Mr. Crofoot, Food Supervisor for contaminated herds. As far as IAccording to Don Kimble, direc­by a team of thirty-five New York 96 percent in the Lower Peninsula the St. Joe County Health Depart­know, no Hoosiers have exhibited tor of the Division of Dairy Pro­researchers showed frightening have detectable levels of PBB in ment, said he has received several any PBB contamination symptoms. 
ducts for Indiana the contamination preliminary results. The data their breast milk. However, state inquiries from county residents. The farms in Michigan which haveof dairy products, poultry, eggs, gathered from more than 1,000 officials did not recommend that "I checked out their requests Indiana markets are under thatfish and beef which began in 1973 
Michigan farmers, their families, mothers discontinue breast­with state health officials in state's surveillance and we areis "now under control." 
and others who had eaten conta­feeding, primarily due to the lack of Indianapolis and they assured me aware of their interstate ship­
PBB is a class of industrial minated meat, milk, poultry, and PBB research. that PBB contamination is now with­pings.' he continued. "But we chemicals which spread through eggs illustrated the following: Michigan health officials were in tolerance levels." he stated. don't run tests on those products ­Michigan's food chain after some -Virtually all residents of handicapped by the lack of infor­"Indiana is not affected by what aside from the routine test on 
bags of this toxic chemical were Michigan's lower peninsula may mation on this chemical when the has happened in Michigan.'' composition. etc. -because all their mistaken for bags of animal feed have traces of PBB in their bodies. contamination began in 1973. PBB Mr. Don Kimble from the state's products must comply with the additives. 
-There are tentative signs of has only been available since 1970 dairy division said he has received tolerance levels set by Michigan The Chicago Tribune reported last possible brain damage, memory (marketed chiefly as a fire retar-sporadic phone calls from northern authorities." 
:;:·:·::,:,: ,.,.,,,., :·:,:,::,:::,:,: :::If' ;~~:;;·:·:~·:·:p·h·~·~;,;::;:h::,;::;:~ 
Grad schools: overspecialized? 
[continued from page 4] • 'In the last few years,'' Gordon Gordon pointed out that the 
the D~~~ ~~~nts ::. continued, "the price of books has individual departments have in­
all note that these respective :::: 
risen to a scandalous level. Faced come from endowments and re­

departments have too many speci­There will be an organizational meeting for ..~.~.~-.~
with this kind of inflation, we're search grants. "Each department

alities. The Graduate Department all people interested in being photographers ::.::.
worried that we'II fall behind," can, from whatever resources,of Government and International Gordon pointed out that the Uni­augment stipends." he added." For :.~=.~ for the '78 Dome. Bring some of your world ....

Stud1es itself realized this problem 
versity provost, Fr. James example," he said, "$2900 isnot a :.=:=.=: Thursday, May 5, 7:00 p.m. in the Dome ::·=.====-~
and it has decided to reduce to four Burtchaell, has moved some funds competitive stipend in mathema­office, 3rd floor, LaFortune. For further info,the number of major graduate 
to the Library and that income from tics, but $3200 to $4000 is. As a } call Tim at 1182. :;::areas. The Graduate Department 
the Campaign for Notre Dame will result, the mathematics depart­~::;:;;;;;:;;;;:~=·=~=~=~=~=:=~===~=~===~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;;;;;::::;:;;;;;:;;;;;:~
of Economics once had 13 specia­suplement Library funds. ment must augment the stipends itlizations but since has reduced 
is given."

them to seven or eight, Gordon pointed that
Gordon also out ------------------· 
Gordon added, "$2900 is more

pointed out. 
external reviewers sometime get a 
than some departments think they
A 1976 evaluation of the Gradu­distorted view of the Library's need, so they will fund more

ate History Program also revealed 
i ~~t ~\BflM>r I
holdings. They'reoften the faculty, students there

that the number of specializations he said, and nine-tenths of the than are actual 
spots. Other departments fund

in that department is ''far too faculty will say the Library is
f fewer students and pay each stu­
many." This problem was noted in I ···~ ~··· I
inadequate if the question is rai­
dent more."

a letter submitted by Dr. Stanley sed. "No reviewers really study 
Regarding comments in many of 

f Hauerwas, chairman of the ND the collection,'' he added. 
IThanx to all for the success1
the reports that the graduate

Graduate Review Committee for
I 
History, and Edward Kline, mem­Gordon also said that once the students in some departments are number of specializations within not really "superior," Gordon com­
t ber of the committee, to Dr. John 1
1 of Michelob night!
r Fitzgerald, assistant vice-president the graduate disciplines are redu­mented, "We get outside re­for advanced studies. • 'The de­ced, Library resources will be built viewers from very good depart­ments in the country who get really
partment has far too many PhD up in those areas that remain. 1 Now it's Miller Time!!! I 
top-flight students.

fields, some of which must be We do get
A third area in which graduate 
top-level students in some depart­

eliminated. In fact the catalogue education has seen improvement, 
ments. We are improving." 

I WED. MAY 4 I
promises far more than the depart­Gordon said is that of stipends 
Gordon added that he "keeps an

ment is now able to supply. For awarded to graduate assistants. 
eye on'·-the minimum qualifica­

example, on paper it is possible to Several reviews note this problem. 
1 Miller bottles 35cents I
tions required for admission to

receive a PhD in ancient history at The Review of the Graduate De­
Notre Dame graduate programs

Notre Dame when in fact the partment of Government and In­
and will tell a department if an

history department has no one ternational Studies sees 1 3 for $1.00 I
the need 
applicant is "questionable." "The

teaching in that area. The depart­for "expanded financial resources 
department has reconsidered in

ment has promised to revise the 
1 plus 5 dozen T-shirts & much more. I
to attract more highly-qualified 
some cases," he noted.

catalogue," the letter, dated Sept. 
applicants." The Report of the 
Gordon also noted that the

24, 1976, says. One of the results Review Committee for the Gradu­
of this realization and of the ate Program in Economics terms quality of the faculty is "excel­:1.1 Thurs.-7&7"s 25cents 7-11 I lent." "We get $7 million in
recommendations of the external financial support the major pro­
research money without having

review report is that religious blem facing the graduate program. a medical or an agricultural school. 
----------------~ history will be "pushed" in the The Report of the Review Commit­
This is a tremendous tribute to our Student Uniondepartment, according to Gordon. 
tee for the Graduate Program in 
faculty,'' he said. .
Another problem recognized by Philosophy comments on the need On the statement in the Northboth reports of the internal and for higher stipends to attract 

Refrigerator Pick-up
Central Accreditation Report that

external reviewers is the lack of top-flight graduate students. The 
the University is "preoccupied"

resources in the Notre Dame Report of the Review Committee 
with its undergraduate students,

Libraries. The Report of the for the Graduate Programs in 
leaving the graduate students in an 
May 7, 1977

Graduate History Program Exter­Aerospace and Mechanical Engi­"amorphous state" and deprivingnal Review states, "Most critically, neering says better graduate stu­them of the • ·analytical attentionlibrary holdings have reached a dents could be obtained with 
they need," Gordon said the

close to irreversible inadequacy for .. DORM Pick-up TIME
available financial support. 
statement is "strong." "We have

the support of a doctoral history Gordon said that stipends have moved positively along a number ofprogram." The External Evalua­increased $100 each year. Next different lines to correct the im­tion of the Graduate Program in 
year. the stipends will be in the pression that graduate students at North Quad
English recommended improve­amount of $2900. Tuition is also Notre Dame are second-class andments in the Library resources. 
paid for these graduate assistants, to correct the conditions that might FlANNER-fGRACE FLANNER 9:00-10:00Gordon said he is aware of this so the total financial award is worth have given some that impression,''
problem and steps are being taken BP-fFARLEY FARLEY 1 0:30-11 :30 
$6200, he noted. he stated. For example, he pointed 

to alleviate it. "The Library has a K EENAN-IlAHM KEENAN 9:00-10:00
::)Ut, the University has built gradu­

fair history of being funded at a "We're not trying to pay the STANFORD-1ST. ED'S KEENAN 10:00-11 :00 
ate housing, recently dedicated a

level that is really a little low," he cost of graduate education com­
graduate commons, increased sti­CAVANAUGH KEENAN 11 :00-12 :00 
acknowledged. "Its exceptionally' pletely," he states, "but we take 
pends, pushed on the departments

inadequate in some fields but not in 90 percent off the student's 
to appoint graduate directors, and1 

others," he added. shoulders.'' • South Quad
established academic and disci­plinary grievance systems for grad­uate students. DILLON-fALUMNI 9:00-10:00
ALUMNI

Cronin wins Sheedy A ward 
Gordon stated that "self-analysis FISH ER-iPANGBORN 
PANGBORN 10 :30·11 :30 

is the key. Most of the time, LYONS-fMORRISEY 
LYONS 10:30-11 :30 

Dr. Edward J. Cronin, a faculty chosen by a student-faculty outside evaluators do not see any 
WALSH-fSORIN
member since 1949, has been committee. problems in a department head or WALSH 11 :30-12 :30 
LEWIS
named the 1977 winner of the Cronin, a 1938 graduate of Notre the administration has not seen. LEWIS 1 :00-1 :30 
HOLY CROSS
Sheedy Award for excellence in Dame, received a master's degree As a result, in three to five years, HOLY CROSS 1 :00-2:00 teaching in the College of Arts and at the University of Chicago and his we will have a better graduate HOWARD~ADIN 11 :30-12 :30 
BADIN

Letters. Cronin, who serves as an doctoral degree at the University of school." associate professor in the General Minnesota, where he was a faculty Gordon added that the Graduate 
SAINT MARY'S ALL DORMS PICKED UP AT LEMANS

Program of Liberal Studies, will member for three years before Council is considering how much receive the aware during the fall returning to Notre Dame. time should separate department 
PARKING LOT 2:30-3:30 2:30·3:30

meeting of the College's Advisory In student-published course reviews. It may decide to vary the Council. evaluations over the years, Cronin times between departments, he 
Established by an anonymous has been consistently praised for said, adding, "for example, some IF YOU CANNOT MAKE YOUR DESIG.:'iATED HOUR donor to honor Rev. Charles E. his attention to the quality of departm.:"lts will have only two or BRING REFRIGERATOR TO KEEN.-~"'i BASEMENT I Sheedy, C.S.C., former dean of the classroom writing and his willing-three years between reviews. This HOUR AFI'ER DESIGNATED PICK {1-p, college, the award includes a ness to spend long hours with his will put pressure on them to hold 
f 
$1,000 check. Recipients are students. up" oiiiM.,..M~~tijMftJV.MW\jMIN"'NWliMW""N"'NW..M~IWIN"'NWI 
~~, ~>~ .:· ~· '. \ i• \ -.'• • , ~ r • o4t • t • • -,~ "")" 1 • (~ r ·'.·>:r: ~ <' C I , r.-. ,I, '". • ':;. ~. ·... I.\ 'i 't "~, 
.

' .. .-~ ..'\ ' " ' ' ·. -~-'.~ ' . .\ . ' .. ... \ ' .. ... .....~ ~ ' ... \ \"\ . 
,..-: • ·~\·~....·~~· ... '•. ~~\ •• ' •• , .~_~'\ • ~·4 '\•....... , .,; t .. l....\ ,~. \:'\ ·.~)';f.; t. '-.. ,', ·. l, •. ., • ···' 
~~.:~\1~).,'"'''·N•rtll-b.."~~'l~~·-~f-l~.)l"~~)(~"'"'..J..}\!t:"-"t-:.~«...:,;..;~.;.:-..~;j£. (~J,~·~4(~.:\)..l~·+i'-"\1*·~\'£t.'\-i~,.-*,.)-;)...#'(i~~?)lr'l~~·,.~ .~ ·~··~". '·'···,­

Wednesday, May 4, 1977 the observer 
Receives Maria Pieta Award 
Fiegl described as 'fantastic' 

by Pat Payne 
Students and teachers alike have a tendency to employ only superla­tives in attempting to describe what it is that makes Dr. Dorothy Feigl, professor of chemistry at St. Mary's, so unique. "She's fantas­tic ...something else... so dyna­mic," her students are heard to remark. 
Consequently, she was pre­sented with the Maria Pieta award, the purpose of which is to honor excellence in lower division teaching, last month. 
Observation of her organic chem­istry and first-year nursing chemis­try classes shows Feigl. chalk in hand, usually writing reactions and drawing compounds all over the blackboard. 
Dr. Dorothy Feigl, Chemistry professor at St. Mary's College Her students agree that her received the Maria Pieta Award for excellence in lower division ability to capture their interest, teaching on April 15. coupled with their recognition that she is their friend, is probably what makes them speak so highly of her. According to Kathy Kilcline, senior chemistry major, Feigl "can 
Co-ed committee report 
tions, residence hall life, and 
make science come alive and make[Continued from page 1] 
security. Also, Campus Ministry, 
the most abstract theories seemadministrative positions. 
medical services, sexuality educa­
tangible. She is fantastic with--that an interdisciplinary ad hoc 
tion, athletics, alumni association, 
students and the aura projected incommittee develop a new curricular 
admissions, and the coeducational 
class is relaxed and very stimu­program on human sexuality, to be experience. 
lating. The material is presented inoffered by the College of Arts and 
And when asked whether they 
a clear. concise manner. You haveLetters. 
are generally comfortable with 
to write 100 miles an hour and--that a central Office of Career 
being a women at Notre Dame. 93 · 
you're on a high by the time youDevelopment be formed to coordi­
percent of the women said yes. 
leave."
nate the guidance counseling 
Senior Maura Nugent agreed,needed by men and women to "She's the only chemist I knowintegrate choices and responsibili­who can get two electrons talking toties involving careers and families. Luttmer wins each other to make a point.''
In its only recommendation that was not unanimous, the majority of Logo contest Sophomore Julie Canepa con­
curs, "Dr. Feigl's personalitythe committee recommended that Joan Luttmer, a Notre Dame makes her the good teacher she isthe president appoint a new com­junior, has been selected as the and this comes through in class.
mittee to thoroughly consider all winner of the Student Union logo Her enthusiasm makes you want toaspects of coresidential housing, contest announced Tom Gryp, Stu­learn for her sake. She has aand if feasible, to plan for its dent Union director. Luttmer will trelflendous amount of patience,implementation in the 1978-79 be awarded $20 for her first-place concern and care for her studentsacademic year. 
design. and deserves the award because"The committee's position on Tim Heilmann, a sophomore, she possesses every quality a goodthis sensitive and complex issue will also receive a special award for teacher should have."
was not easily reached,'' Sister the most appropriate stationary Although St. Mary's is Dr.
John said. "But it was seen as one head design. Gryp expressed Feigl's first actual teaching posi­way of dealing with the serious lack "great appreciation to all the tion, she by no means arrivedof opportunities for social interac­students who contributed logos for unprepared. In 1966, she attendedtion." 
the contest." Loyola University of Chicago, grad­The report supported single-sex uated valedictorian of her class andresidence halls as Notre Dame's Tuesday: study! went to Stanford University toprimary model, but noted that no pursue graduate research. After asingle model can serve the needs Tuesday, May 10 is a study day year's postdoctoral appointment atof all students. The committee's according to the official calendar. Notrh Carolina State University,concept of a coresidential dormi­
tory is one with separate living Class exams and departmentals, Feigl said she had considered 
which start on Wednesday the several jobs in industry but ulti­areas for men and women governed eleventh will be finished by the mately discarded them in favor ofby parietal hours. It suggested that seventeenth. accepting a challenge to teach.
such a hall be optional only for juniors and seniors. The report expressed concern that 
······················­
the impact of an equal access 
ND & SMC SENIOR TRIP: : admissionspolicy on Saint Mary's College be considered, but dis­agreed with the inclusion of Saint Mary's when the University refers to a 3:5 ratio of women to men. Speaking as a consultant to the 
I • 
evaluation committee, Saint 
•
Mary's president, Dr. John M. 
Duggan, emphasized the import­,/~§ 
•
ance of interaction between the two f.<~: ..···. •• studeut bodies but he disagreed :-., . 
• ....• .•.. .. •
that difficulties might be caused by .-·~ 
:'::1. 
increasing the number of Notre ---::.:·
: 
Dame women. 
•
.;~*" •• ~.-... 
: .... • 
Concurring in the desire for interaction between the campuses, the evaluation committee said it ·. ·-~!-.----I ~-:
-~-=-.'_:·
: . .....~. . \• .. 
was troubled by decreased partici­• .. • t.. • •• • • • • • ~· 
pation by both in the coexchange .:.' .. ,... it:.. ..._,,--. -·· 7--~---. . 
program. It recommended a ..-~~ ~ ···~--~...~.. ~ ;·_· ·.. thorough study in cooperation with Saint Mary's. 
· The committee addressed vir­
• SAN FRANCISCO i·
e:
tually all areas of University life in 
16 topics, "which means that 
Sun. Oct. 23 -Fri. Oct. 28 
women are truly part of Notre Dame, not just something added 
Nonre_fundable $50 Check Deposit~
on," Sister John commented. The 
topics included academic experien­
Pay at LaFortune or LeMans lobbies from 
ce, women faculty and administra­At first, the students were expects a great deal from her 
apprehensive about her as Dr. students, they tend to want to learn 
Richard Pilger, professor and col­for the pure joy of it and not just for 
league, recalled. "In the begin­a grade. Benton suggested that 
ning, the students were horrified to perhaps her rapport with students 
think we'd consider hiring a woman is good because she has a certain 
in the chemistry department. They amount of respect and under­
felt that a woman teacher would be standing for them. On a more 
picky and fussy.'' personal level, Benton commented, 
However, the students were soon "Dorothy is quite stimulating to 
put at ease by her remarkable talk to. I enjoy it; she has good 
approach to teaching, he added. ideas." 

"She's obviously a born teacher In addition to receiving the and it would have been a mistake Maria Pieta Award, Dr. Feigl was for her to go into industry," Pilger also the recepient of the Spes Unica observed. "I haven't met a student Award in 1973 presented in recog­yet who didn't like... no, who didn't nition of her outstanding dedication love her -even the kids who to St. Mary's and her students. flunked." Trying to persuade Feigl to talk 
Dr. Francis Benton, chairman of about herself is no easy task. In the chemistry department, dis­fact, she says it is difficult to step cussed the changes he's observed outside h·crself and evaluate herself since Dr. Feigl's arrival. "Her objectively. She would rather brush qualities as a teacher haven't this topic aside in favor of other changed appreciably over the · "more important things." years, she's always been enthu­She does, however, feel good siastic about her subject. It's not · about receiving the award. "It that she's changed so much, it's says you've achieved something just that over a period of time , you want to do and is what makes people have come to appreciate her 
[continued on page 16]more.'' He added that while she 


Justf~ 8 LIQUOR OPEN FRI. & SAT. 'Yoa\.O TILL MIDNIGHT 
$2.69 $2.89 
12 Pack 12 Pack Bottles 
Falstaff/Blatz  HAMMS  
$2.60 12 Pack Rhinelander  $3.09 12 Pack Old Style  

Busch 16oz. six-pack cans 
$1.79 
Old Chicago $1.39 6/pk Falstaff $1.49 6/pk 
Vodka 3.99q.t. 
tion, academic guidance, personal 
Wed. May4 -throughMon. May 9
counseling, placement and career 
counseling, minority group women 

from 2-5pm may postdate checks Gin 4. 19qt.
Saint Mary's-Notre Dame rela­
until June 15 if necessary. 
Rum $4.98 qt Scotch $5.39qt
ERRATUM 
Trip Cost: $275
The reception in honor of Roonie O'Neil, St. Mary's St. Catherine 

Medal winner, will be held Thurs­Limited amount of seats Philadelphia Whiskey $4.89qt 
day, May 5 at 5 p.m. in Stapleton Lounge, not at 5:15 p.m. in room 
get ticket· now!!!! 
161 LeMans as reported earlier. 
-
*The Observer 
EDITORIAL BOARD
an independent student newspaper serving notre dc1me and st. mary's 
Marti Hogan Editor-in-Chief Martha Fanning Managing Editor 
The Observer is published by students of the University Bob Brink Asst Managing Ed. of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. It does not Kathy Mills Executive Editor necessarily reflect the policies of either institution. The Maureen Flynn Editorial Editor news is reported as accurately and as objectively as Barb Breitenstein Exec. News Editor possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a maJority of Tom Byrne Campus Editor the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters Jean Powley St. Mary's Editor Katie Kerwin News Editor
are the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and letters are Paul Stevenson Sports Editor encouraged to promote the free expression of varying Pat Cole Special Projects Ed. opinions on campus. David 0'Keefe Features Editor 
BoxQ
Business Manager Sue Quigley 
Notre Dame
Advertising Manager Steve Bonomo Copy Editor Barb Langhenry Production Manager Karen Chiames lnd.46556 Photo Editor Paul Clevenger 

: Wednesday, May 4, 1977 

A Mockery of Justice 
Yesterday's sudden announcement of skin color is plainly not a valid criterion for 
the addition of a "minority student" to the the selection of cheerleaders. like '77-'78 cheerleading squad stands as athletes, who are chosen for their skill 
another regrettable episode involving the rather than their race, each member of seemingly innocuous selection of cheer­the final squad is appointed for his or her leaders for the football and basketball abilities relating to cheerleading, such as teams. The poor timing of the move, dancing and acrobatics. The positionsannounced for the last issue of The involve skill, not merely appearance, a fact 
Observer and immediately before finals, the University fails to recognize. No only compounds the controversy that will person or group is entitled to a spot on the inevitably arise as a result. squad without earning it. One minority student, a Mexican-American, has already 
The annual task of choosing a new won a position on the unit by displaying cheerleading squad has in the past two her talents as outlined by the extablishedyears inexplicably been transformed into a judging procedures. 
battleground for racial insinuations and Yet the University has chosen to ignorecharges of discrimination. -The dispute the facts and to establish a quota requiring surrounding last year's choices led to the black representation on the squad, in andrafting of elaborate regulations governing effort to respond to the complaints ofthe evaluation of candidates, designed to concerned black students. The effect ofensure the selections would be made as the appointment will be to stigmatize the·impartially as possible. The rules were black student appointed as the token black established only after soliciUng input from on the squad, rather than to further racial all interested parties, including those who harmony. She becomes a victim of thedenounced the old procedures as racially misguided benevolence of the University,disCriminatory, and all involved seemed to as the circumstances of her appointmentagree on their fairness. 
cast continous doubt on her ability, andThe startling aspect of the University's she bears the brunt of the unavoidableannouncement is that no violation of the resentment provoked by such a racialjudging procedures is alleged. The quota system. Not only is nay provision for appointment is based, rather, on other racial quotas degrading to those that itgrounds, anticipating a new system of purports to assist, but it allows~~· theregulations' for cheerleading selection to be University to overlook the real problem ofhanded down by the administration for Facial attitudes on campus.
next year. The procedures to be announ­The appointment of a black cheerleader ced will feature a new wrinkle: a racial represents an attempt by Fr. Hesburgh toquota. 
dispose of the embarassing charges of The rationale behind this change is racism levied by black students. But 
apparently related to the issues raised by manipulating the cheerleading selection the group of black students who staged the process in order to provide television sit-in on the steps of the Administration cameras with an image of racial unity at Building almost two weeks ago. In a letter Notre Dame does nothing to remedy the 
to Student Activities Director Bro. John problem. Instead it damages the integrity 
Benesh, the group cited the presence of of the cheerleading squad and mocks anyblacks on the football and basketball team authentic attempt at impartiality in the as sufficient justification for automatic selection process. This and similar efforts proportional representation of blacks on to silence complaints of racial bias with the cheerleading squad. University ad­token gestures do not promote constructive ministrators have also pointed to the dialogue on racial difficulties, but instead 
visibility of cheerleaders, and having accentuate them, while protecting the 
expressed a desire to demonstrate that University from news accounts of racial 
Notre Dame is genuinely free of raciaiJbias unrest. H the administration is trulyby including a black among the cheer­interested in dealing with \the problems,leaders. then counter-productive measures such as Neither argument should persuade racial quotas should be abandoned, for those truly concerned with fostering a they offer no aid and threaten considerable 
spirit of racial equality at Notre Dame, for harm. 

I 
I 
i 
I. 


• 


potential lawsuits. The unfortun­ate thing, however, is that con­
O'Reiley 
cerned minority legal groups, such as the NAACP and MALDEF, were refused intervention in the case at
bids farewell 
the 1trial.level and were thus barred from introducing evidence of UC­Dearest Editor, Davis' past discriminatory conduct. And while the Supreme Court Having been lambasted numer­will be looking at the record for ous times on this page, the past discrimination by UC-Davis, it impending end of "Magnificent will not be looking for a Title VII Meals in Michiana" presents my violation as Dr. Kommers seeQls to chance to reply. indicate. Title VII of the Civil 
First "MMinM" was conceived Rights Act concerns employment with a serious purpose in mind: discrimination only not racially giving students an idea of what discriminatory admissions as in alternatives to the dining halls , Bakke. exist. I have tried to give a fair . It is precisely because the real evaluation of each meal, but such parties in interest, minority an evaluation must depend on the groups, were not allowed to intro­whims of my palate. It is under­duce evidence of past discrimina­standable, then, that many might tion that the National Lawyers disagree with me and not follow my Guild, as amicus curiae, is urging recommendations. the Supreme Court to remand the 
In addition, through puns and case tp the trial level so that lampooning various cliches, I have minority groups may intervene and tried to add some humor to the present their evidence. Absent 
solumn, satirizfng the nit-picking, such an opportunity, minorities will pseudo-elitist attitude flaunted by have suffered a serious setback at so-called experts in the culinary or the hands of the judicial sys~m. other fields. When a pun (funny or So, while it is true fl;, Dr. not) such as ''the china was made Kommers states, that "the remedy 
in Japan" somehow reflects on cannot transcend the problem," "the socie-economic fight of the neither can a problembe remedied Chinese,'' I begin to wonder if that is not fully and adequately people have lost their sense of presented. humor. The fact that I made similar jokes about other (racial and non­Ted Maloney racial) groups throughout the year N.D.-National Lawyers Guild didn't matter; lampooning Chinese cliches at a Chinese restaurant somehow makes me a racist: and obscures the non-serious aspects of Blacks:more the column. (Incidentally, this let­ter is completely serious.) 
Perhaps future writers should 
sensible ways
take note and label all lines, ''intended to be humorous,'' or "intended to be serious." We wouldn't want any misunderstand­
ings. Dear Editor, But to those who read the column this year, I thank you for your time, I read Dr. Stewart's opinion and hope you found it worthwhile. column in The Observer today with some resentment. I do not appreci­Tim O'Reiley ate being pitied because I do not enter Black studies courses or attend extra curricular activities of "various non-white racial cultural
Facts behind 

groups." I feel I should be pitied no less than any student who has not been exposed to any discipline in the University...! have legitimate Dear Editor: interest in courses which, because with that interest, deserve priority I was quite dismayed upon over other courses. I should not be reading statements attributed to p:tied because my interest does not 
Bakke & NO 

1 
the Director of the Notre Dame match yours, Dr. Stewart, especial­Center for Civil Rights, Donais P. ly when my interest is a legitimate Kommers, in The Observer's two­one. part series on the Bakke case. The Exposure to other cultures and statements portray a serious mis­racial groups is valuable, as valu­understanding of the facts and able as learning how these racial issues involved in that case. groups come together, how they 
According to the article, Dr. justly run their lives and how they Kommers termed the National form the world. This can be gotten Lawyers Guild's charge of collusion throughout the range of Arts and between Bakke and UC-Davis as Letters courses: Sociology, Philoso­"conjecture." Such a statement phy, History, Economics, Psycho­indicates an ignorance of the logy ... But to say that because I abundant and well-documented have not studied in a Black culture evidence that UC-Davis officials course or have not attended other encouraged Bakke to sue the than white cultural events (exclud­school, as well as advising him to ing the rock concerts put on by base his case on reverse racial non-white artists) implies that I am discrimination, instead of age dis­disinterested in humanization (a 
crimination as he had originally funny word) is wrong and logically planned. sloppy. I also, therefore, resent any 
The article also indicates that Dr. tampering with course selection Kommers rejects the proposition procedures, as Dr. Stewart sug­that UC-Davis purposefully failed gests, in order for my being to present a winning case at trial, required to take certain non-white 
and that "Davis, along with the cultural courses. I believe that they 
Association of American Law have no valid claim to a type of Schools (AALS) would probably not knowledge that cannot be found take a case to the Supreme Court elsewhere. with the intention of losing." First I don't · mind being told that 
of all, whether or not the AALS Black studies courses are valuable, 
would submit a losing case to the as they are, but do mind being Supreme Court is irrelevant. The pitied into taking one. I may take AALS is not even a party to the one of my own free will, but I case. It is merely submitting an resent being coerced in to a amicus brief to the Supreme Court, discipline that has no claim of and had 'no control over the special ,knowledge, such as social development of the evidentiary sciences do vis a vis science, or 
record going before the Court. philosophy. S~condly, it in Davis' 1 would like to also criticize the
was own best interests to keep evidence of following paragraph contained in past discrimination from the trial your article: court. Admitting past discrimina­''I also pity the Notre Dame tion would have exposed it to other Community because the informa­



). 
ox 
tion that is provided to you by the Administration implicitly perpetu­ates the myth that increasing the number of 'minorities' at Notre Dame implies lowering the stand­ards and admitting 'unqualified' individuals, while it is admitted privately that it is the University's financial priorities that limit the number of minority students matriculating here.'' 
I would submit to you, Dr. Stewart, that... the admissions of­fice very actively seeks the most qualified minority students, of which (like any other racial group) there are . a limited number....The reison why economic considera­tions are important is that the same student approached by us is, at the sa111e time, being approached by Harvard, MIT, etal, with "full rides" in their hands. We can't afford to match that (or prefer not. you might suggest, Dr. Stewart ... ) Qualified black students are not waiting for us to admit them and give them enough financial aid to make it with, they are going where the bigger bucks are. Do you wish to charge that we are not· giving them a big enough bribe to come here? These circumstances can be confirmed by a phone call to the admissions office, if you trust them not to lie....A 2.5 percent minority has a multimillion dollar scholar­ship fund set up for them (proceeds from the bowl games). I should press the charge of unfairness! 
A large scholarship fun, a special Black Studies department institu­ted to help blacks feel more at home in their own culture. (along with introducing whites to it), a Black Student Cultural Commission supported financially by the Uni­versity, et al, do not signify institutional racism. 
It seems the University is being very accomodating to Blacks and their aspirations. No other group is treated so well and at least one other, Chicano, has equally as valid claims, if not Orientals and Irish. 
I believe what is occuring is a politicking of interest. Thus, sev­eral letters in The Observer for obscure racial groups to activate such division into interests, and market competition for limited University resources can only bring division. I believe there is a more sensible way to meet needs, and not by lobby or pressure. 
I will freely admit that there is a good deal of individual racism here. True, it cannot exist in a void as you suggest, Dr. Stewart. But because it exists does not mean there is a void left by the Univer­sity's unconcern for fraternity. If that move is valid then I might conclude that the University is indifferent and inactive to sexual misconduct merely because so much of it occurs. On the contrary the University seeks to instill values of fraternity and non-abuse, and in the latter case has strict penalties for non-compliance (commission of a felony in sex rule violation will easily terminate your stay here). 
Because individual racism exists the implication is not that institu­tional racism exists. The University is not callous to fraternal demands and does preach fraternity. 
Unless you come up with the goods, Dr. Stewart, your charge of institutional racism doesn't hold. I can only apologize for my bigoted CQileagues, and hope some of the message of this place rubs into them. 
John Hannan 

*Observer 
Editorials 

Rah-Rah 
complaints... 
Dear Editor, 
We have tried to be fair. We have been fair to all who tried out. Thus we stand by with all the credibility our squad has as the representatives of the entire Notre Dame Community. 
With the establishment of quotas to dictate how we as a squad must assemble, we lose all too much of this fairness, we lose all too much of the credibilty, thus the Notre Dame Community --you lose your credibility. 
But life is not fair. Our ideals and wishes that the world be all nice and sweet are not real. And when you're at the bottom of the Totem Pole, you are subject to the pressures of the "too many chiefs above you. 
This is the plight of the Notre Dame Cheerleaders. Perhaps our fairness in the tryoutprocedure was not visible enough from the top of the Dome and so quotas were established to redefine fairness that already existed. 
Despite this insult, we the Notre Dame cheerleaders feel a strong obligation. An obligation to you and the whole Notre Dame com­munity. This leaves us with the job we originally set out to do, repre­
sent Notre Dame.  We intend to.  
'77-78  
Notre  Dame  Cheerleaders  
...our  

share... 
Dear Fr. Hesburgh: As two students of Eastern 
European  descent,  we  await  our  
appointment  to  the  1977-1978  
cheerleading  squad.  Prior  to  

yesterday's announcement, we thought we would be ineligible for the squad due to our lack of ability. 
Since we now discover that the presence of players of Eastern European descent on the football team entitles us to spots on the cheerleading squad, we hope you will announce our appointment as 
parting shots 
There  comes  a  time  in  every  
senior's  career  when  graduation  
comes  rushing  toward  him  in  
Time's  winged  chariot  and  he  

begins to feel old. He thinks he's been it all and that it's time to 
retire to some secluded bar and mutter imprecations against the younger generation to his beer. But before becoming an instant old alum and doddering off to Jaw school, I've been asked to give a few bits of sageadvice, culled from years of experience, about how this place operates. _ 
1:· This whole university is run like it is someone's hqpby -but no one has yet figured out whose hobby it is. Policies are often made in fits of absentmindedness or sheer confusion. The administra­tive machinery is designed so that the originator of a policy can be hidden behind layers of commit­tees, offices and errant\ boys. When. an Individual administrator does take responsibility he often i* m .. re~ taking orders. Student 
soon as possible so we can be fitted for uniforms in time for the season. Thanks again and we are anxious 
to  start  cheering  on  our  Slavic  
brothers.  
MukSOady  
Dave Oleuz  

...unfair and unequal.. 
Dear Editor: 
I heard something tonight at dinner that I could hardly believe. It seems that the University has become so concerned with one particular sect of the ND student body that it has neglected what is actually fair and equal for ALL. 
The incident at hand here is over the new appointment procedure to the cheerleading squad--Bro. Just has seen fit to appoint a black cheerleader to the 1977-78 cheer­leading squad. I wonder how this action can truly be accounted for when looking at the try-out rules and regulations. 
First of all, a cheerleading constitution was written up and approved before this year's tryouts were held. One of the main points in the constitution was the state­ment that only six women and six men would be on the squad. Just's appointment would violate this part of the constitution. 
Secondly, outside judges this year were used to avoir'.. any discrimination against "whu you don't know." Not being affiliated with the university in any way, they judged strictly on ability. What made this group of judges so fair and unique was the fact that they not only served as impartial judges, but were also quite knowledgeable in their particular fields of dance and gymnastics. 
Thirdly, every person who was trying out for the squad had the same obstacles to surmount in order to become aND cheerleader. All were given an equal opportu­nity to learn what needed to be learned for the tryouts. Only then, under equal conditions for all contestants, were they judged. 
Fro·.n this judging, the best six womt·n· and men were chosen. There was a lot of sadness over the results since more contestants were rejecteci instead of accepted onto 

Sage Advice 
organizatins · are usually even more disorganized. 
i. Never doubt tne sincerity of administrators. They really are interested in the students' own good • as the administration sees it. 
But sincerity, as Mark Twain said, :1s the most over-rated virtue in the catalog. It has nothing to do with being right and may only be perfected self-deception. (Of course this is true of student sincerity too.) 
3. 
Committees are usually substitues for action. By making it look as though something is being done, they take the heat off wmeone who would otherwise have to make a decision. Some­times committees do not realize their purpose and return with lengthy reports demanding action. Circular files were invented for these reports. 

4. 
It is a diche that many problems are caused by lack of communication. This is often_true, 


but sometimes establishing com­
munication only reveals that the 
parties totally disagree. 
5. 
People crazy enough • or sincere enough • to try to mediate such a disagreement will discover the truth of the ancient beatitude: ''Blessed are the peacemakers for they shall catch hell from both sides.'' 

6. 
If you can slip past the organizational disorganization, t~1e misdirected sincerity, the dead-end committees and the comunication gaps, you will eventually reach the saving grace of this university: most people are ntional about most things most of the time. If anything is going to get settled all sides will eventually hav.! to take Isaiah's advice: "Com(~ let u~ rcasori together." That, of course, 



_involves a compromise -which is a high-sounding word for taking what you can get instead of all you 
1. If even Isaiah's. advice dQt:!sn't 
DOONESBURY 
MMK! HEY, /Aliff, MRS. JIOIIJNICE HAI?K! OAV£;N­TO SEe 
POI<T'! YOU .46AIN,
I 
/lANNA I<NO/Q 
IIOIUI60T A 
7/IE EFFeCT? f)RJNK, fJO YOIJ? M/5. D.? I I 
the squad. This, however, was something to be expected. How­ever, the ones chosen to make up the new 1977-1978 cheerleading squad have every right to feel proud over their performances at tryouts. They surmopnted the ob­stacles on their own. 
My question is how can he really justify his action of placing a black student on the squad who dkln't actually surmount the tryout obstacles. He is not only being unfair to all of the contestants that tried out, but also to whoever he chooses to place on the squad. He is taking away this person's right to obtain a goal on his own. How belittling this must appear to someone to think that they cannot obtain something on their own merits!! 
An Aspiring Cheerleader who 
couldn't make the judges·· 
NOR the University's Ust 
Dear Editor: 
After four years I am finally prompted by conscience and values to write this letter to you; prompted by the outright appointment of a l-lack cheerleader to the squad of 1977-1978 by Bro. Just Pacnesny. 
After last year's fiasco of cheer­leading tryouts, a concerted effort was made to see that this year's tryouts were as objective and fair as possible to all who participated. Themen and women chosen to be a 
by Garry Trudeaw. 
I TAPE/) A 
MIN/A71RE 
FtA5HU611T «J4S liSlE 111£N 
"1J HY MJSe! 7lVO ~ 
YUI<! YUK! AOO. 
part of this year's squad, made it through hard work, determination and talent. Rules and a constitu­tion guided the process as a whole as did outside judges, only to be cast aside by Student Affairs. 
I ask in all honesty, does the 
University stand for equality and 
fairness to each student?! If so, 
then I have yet to see it. Will the 
administration continue to dampen 
the ideals of striving and deter­
mination to obtain something 
through one's abilities and talents? 
One of the purposes of this 
University is to aid in developing 
the overall character of the indivi­
dual, but past actions by the 
administration would not lead us to 
believe that this does in fact take 
place. Can the administration 
honestly think that it can continue 
to please every demand placed by a 
minority group and survive? 
Such a blatantly unfair act as the administration has seen fit to initiate cannot and should not be tolerated. In their attempt to be the equalizer they have further segre­gated the groups of this Unive_r­
sity's student population. 
As my senior year comes to a 
close I will be proud to say that I am 
a graduate of Notre Dame, but I 
sincerely hope that that pride will 
not turn into shame by further 
questioning the values under which 
this University oper<~;tes. 
Julia M. Dunn 
pot honifin 
work you can always fall back on 
another maxim: Evasion is nine­
tent~s of the law. The reason 
ridiculous rules like those of on sexuality and pareitals will likely be on the books for years is that it is much easier to wiggle around them than to knock them down. If student government wants to keep fighting these rules they should rememberLincoln's advice that the ~est way to get a bad law repealed is to get it enforced strictly. 
8. Don't take yourself too seriously. No one else will, so why should you be a~ exception ? 
9...Don't take anyone else too seriously either. They are usually as confused as you are and aren't 
any moretlnxious to admit it.  This  
holds  especially  for  people  who  
give out free advice.  

to: Eventually, ·you will get out of this place (one way or anotr.~r) and look back and wonder wfty you got so mad. I'll be out there waiting in some secluded bar.. 
. ::-·. -.. ~ •' 
12 the Observer Wednesday, May 4, 1977 
~~------------------~--~~---
Mouies 

Hockey Pucks and Private Eyes 
SLAP SHOT 
Directed by George Roy Hill 
Slap Shot is an innocent conceit, 
although its conceit outruns its innocence 
by miles. It is the story of a second-rate 
hockey team in a third-rate town hit badly 
by recession, which threatens to close 
down the industry that supports the team. 
Early on, we learn that there is a group of 
Florida geriatrics interested in buying the 
team, but only if they can start winning. 
Reggie Dunlop (Paul Newman), the team's 
graying player-coach, somehow translates 
the need to win into a dictum to start 
playing dirty hockey, which delights his 
motley band of "goons." It also delights 
the audience, a misappropriation by Direc­
tor Hill that renders the film absolutely 
incapable of saying anything reliable about 
dirty-hockey and the "goons" who have 
contributed so much to the defilement of 
the sport. 
All of that would have been, in and of 
itself, a sad, inconsequential failure. But 
instead of admitting that the script as it is 
written doesn't accomplish any meaningful 
objectives, the tilmakers insist on giving us 
a token pacifist on the Charlestown Chiefs, 
one Ken Braden (Michael Ontkean), whose 
notion of protest. consists of sitting on the 
bench by himself, casting dirty looks at 
Dunlop while the rest of the gang skates on 
people's faces. The fight scenes are 
good-natured brawls,andeven the referees 
take a few good wallops, but the fact 
remains that violence is supposed to be 
the very thing that the film is ostensibly 
exposing as a pernicious evil. 
Paul Newman once again exudes the blue-eyed charm that has endeared him audiences for so long, a considerable feat here in light of the fact that he is simply miscast. He is too handsome-gray to be old-gray, too stilted for the comedy that Slap Shot' calls for, and too inherently classy to be associated with a gang of nuts like the Chiefs. 
The nuttiest by far are the Hanson Brothers, a trio of derelicts that Dunlop imports to beef up the Chiefs. They arrive on the scene looking like nothing I can describe, with long hair and tulip-bulb noses and horn-rimmed glasses. They sit in the locker room before the game or between periods on a bench together, paying close attention to every word that Dunlop says and echoing his most fervid exhortations while the rest of the gang lounges around, smoking, chatting and playing cards. The Hansons are by far the most outrageously funny characters, no small accomplishment for the three collegiate icers who play the parts. 
The script, written by Nancy Dowd, contains some of the most blatant, if unimaginative, obscenities that I have heard in a long time. (If you have any intention of seeing the movie, you'd better 
records 
*Observer 
Founding Father 
The precarious nature of the rock n' roll recording industry was brought out per­fectly in a conversation between two FM deejays commenting on Roger McGuinn's new album, Thunderbyrd. One deejay commented that the album had that "unmistakable California sound," while the other said the Eagles and latterday Fleetwood Mac influenced his recording. 
Hopefully (for the two deejays) they were just kidding, for this album reaffirms just how much Roger McGuinn and the Byrds have influenced the Eagles, Fleet­wood Mac and any other group that categorizes itself as representatives of the Southern California sound. 
Tight guitar work and soaring vocal harmonies characterized the Byrds during their heyday. The sound presented in Thunderbyrd is much like the Byrds' harder rock stage when they added a sharper electric edge to the previously mentioned two qualities. There is another quality added to this album and it comes compliments of McGuinn's association with the Rolling Thunder Revue. most 'lotably Bob Dylan and lyricist Jaques 
~evy. 
McGuinn's voice was never the clearest ,nstrument in the world. On this album. he not wait until it comes on TV. It won't.) There seems to be some merit in the seed that sprouted the idea, but there are too many forced elements in the script to really justify it. Besides lonely Ken Braden, the pacifist, there are such obligatory characters as Dunlop's ex-wife Francine, (played with incongruous earn­esty by the beautiful Jennifer Warren), a heartless businesswoman who owns the team, afnd a kinky blond bedfellow for Newman to romp with, which was probably included in the script to add a further note of earthiness to Newman, and the film. 



Slap Shot succeeds in making us laugh, but it makes us laugh at moments when we should be thinking about what we are watching. It burlusques the violence in hockey, all the while purporting to say something significant about the damaging influence of blood on the ice. Maybe it does, in its own convoluted way. Maybe it leads to the realization that violence on the screen is like violence on the ice: cold, distant, and seemingly harmless. But there is, in the end, a great gap between exposing a problem and contributing to its solution. 
Gregg B. Bangs 
sometimes seems to be copying or styling his vocal delivery after Dylan's. Perhaps it's just this listener's imagination, but the Dylanesque delivery seems more evident in "Golden Loom," written by Dylan, and .on a few of the songs cowritten by Levy and McGuinn. McGuinn favors a nasal tone of 
voice when he speak-shouts the lines. 
With the presence of Rick Vito's harmonica 
on "Golden Loom," the song sounds like it 
should be off of Planet Waves. 
The songs cowritten with Levy under­
standably sound somewhat like Dylan's 
tunes off Desire. Perhaps the first three 
lines of Russian Hill typify this: 
Last night in the middle of a dream I started thinkin' 'bout Russian Hill And Ferlinghetti with his Cony Island mind 
McGuinn has come under attack in his .solo career for sounding too much like the Byrds. He shouldn't complicate matters by starting to sound like Dylan. Besides, he is at his best on this album when he opens up both his vocals and his guitar playing. He takes Peter Frampton's "All Night Long" and transforms it into a solid rocker, as he does with George Jones' "Why Baby Why." 

Note: Slap Shot is currently playing at the Forum 2 Cinema. Call 277-1522 for times and prices. 
THE LATE SHOW 

Directed by Robert Benton 
If you are a fan of the old private-eye 
genre, you will like The Late Show, not so 
much for the way in which it revives the 
genre, but for the wonderful ways that it 
uses the genre. It is at times as 
suspenseful as The Maltese Falcon, at othe 
times as smart-alecky and endearing as the 
Thin Man movies. But what is most 
refreshing about Robert Benton's film is 
that it doesn't try to pass itself off as a 
serious thriller, nor as a lampoon of an 
outdated genre. It is a steady, even­
headed work with a unique sense of its 
proper place, and it is this unabashed 
honesty that makes The Late Show so much 
fun to watch. 

The film opens with one of the many 
private-eye cliches that Benton uses with 
-~ffrvfk~ ,. l; l! 1\ 'V t; 1~ 'E ,.. 1~ ~ 

In "It's Gone" and "We Can Do It All Over Again," McGuinn makes good usage df a constantly repeated chorus. In "It's Gone,'' he counters the vocal chorus with his own guitar solo while the chorus on "We Can Do----Again" is allowed to stand on its own. Both are catchy tunes. 
Perhaps the most attractive song on the. album is Tom Petty's "American Girl." . McGuinn's lead vocal is clear and forceful and the harmonies supplied by Vita and· bass player Charlie Harrison offer good, support. The song is powered by the vocals and good guitar filler work and highlighted by Tom Scotts' sax solo, which· keeps the song moving. 
Dauid O'Keefe 
such a marvelous lack of pretensiousness. A man staggers into the room of Ira Wells (Art Carney), lies down on the bed, and dies. He was Wells' friend from the old days when they both still worked as private investigators. Ira makes the decision there and then to come out of retirement and find the man who killed his friend. 
He first encounters Margo Spuling (Lily Tomlin) at the funeral. She wants him to find her cat, but before long, we discover with him that she is peripherally involved with the death of his friend. She is as confused about the mess as he is, so they agree to work on the case together. She is, by her own admission, "a little weird around the edges." For his part, he confesses to being a "a broken-down old private eye with a bum leg and a hearing aid.'' Of course they underestimate themselves, and one another. and the direction that their relationship takes is as cunning if ultimately illogical, as the plot itselt. 
So much of the success of the film relies on the talents of the performers, who do so well in maintaining the difficult serio-comic attitude. Art Carney is sheer delight as Ira Wells, choosing to mold his own character instead of copying any one of a number of previously-established models. At times he is pathetic, looing like an old suitcase that's been kicked around alot. At other times, but not too often, he displays the strength and genius that a true hero must have if he is to overcome the villians. Carney doesn't "play" Ira Wells, he gives him life. 
Lily Tomlin, whose lone screen credit before this was Nashville, makes a wonderful Margo Spurling. She is simul­taneously vulnerable and remote, a curious analgam of undaunted enthusiasm and neurotic anxieties. Tomlin jugles every­thing .deftly and imperceptibly, combining several characters into one. There are also some superb supports from Eugene Roche and Bill Macy ("Maude's" husband). 
To disclose much of the plot would be unfair as it is unnecessary. The plot in this sort of film is not vital, as long as it maintains our interest, provides plenty of opportunities for corpse-in-the-closet scenes, and carries you along, uncertain of who the good guys and bad guys really are. The Late Show does all of this, and is considerably more refreshing in the bar­gain than such slick, modernized variations as Marathon Man. 
It also differs from latter-day distillations in that, rather than coming at you, The Late Show seduces you, taking you in, leading you about, and letting you go, happier for the experience. It is a movie that should be seen, not because it demands it, but because it deserves it. 
Note: The Late Show is currently playing at the River Park Theater. CAll 288-8488 for times and ticket prices. 

The Byrds, save for one "get-together" album, broke up in the early Seventies. It is to their credit that one of their members can come back six years later, play essentially the same style with a few innovations and still fit in the current trend of music being produced. McGuinn need not make any excuses for not trying something different than he did with the Byrds; he's better than most of the groups that followed his example. Save for the Dylan imitation, Thunderbyrd is a solid album by one of the founders and still-leading contributors of the country­rock sound. 

Wednesday, May 4, 1977 the observer 13 
letters to a lonely God 
Sing a Gospel Song of Summer 
Reverend Robert Griffin 

I sing of brooks, of blossoms, birds, and bowers; Of April, May, of June and July flowers. I sing of maypoles, bock-carts, was· sails, wakes, Of bridegrooms, brides and of their bridal cakes, I write of youth, of love and have access By these, to sing of cleanly-wanton· ness. 
·-Herrick 

I wonder if anyone succeeds in selling Jesus in his preaching on the corners of city streets? I wonder if salvation comes from the texts of Hebrews handed out by the bearded young Jesus-folk hustling for heaven in the Friday night crowds on Sixth Avenue: A zealot with glittering eye interrupts my summer walk. "Good evening," he says_ "The Lord is coming back, soon." 
"Tell Him, then, to make an appoint­ment," I snap back because in New York, one is always ready to resist sales pitches and the local product. 
The glittering of eye intensifies as though the zealot is practising to become the Ancient Mariner. "Thank you, viper's brood, I'll tell Him that." Then, scanning the habilements worn by the minions of the Pope, he says: "Your collar's on back­wards.'' 
"So's your head," I banter back. By this time, I have moved past him, so he shouts after me, "Don't try to get in the last word , fat man. God is going to cook you ever good. God's people are going to inherit His kingdom. God's people are going to reign with Him on golden thrones. Fat hypocrites are going to burn FOREVER in the fire that gives no light.'' 
"You've got no one to blame but yourself," I think grimly. "A smile and 'God bless you' were all that were needed.'' On New York streets, if you don't Iikethemerchandise, you don't hassle the help--whether it's a poppet, a potato peeler, or the Paraclete that's being peddled. The consequences can be an ugly scene that can also cost you money, if you are going to escape getting hurt. 
On the next corner, by 0. Henry's, a chap and a girl wearing windbreakers from SUNY were passing out the God-talk. "Good evening." the girl said politely. ''We would be interested in talking to you about the Lord Jesus. Have you met the Lord Jesus?" 
I tried to twinkle as a candle shining like a good deed in a naughty world; the candle that the Gospel lit, so that nobody could curse the darkness. I think they thought the twinkling was a symptom I had eaten spoiled fish. I didn't try to answer their bewildered looks, deciding not to break my vow of silence, freshly imposed after my skirmish with Dry Bones. 
An hour later, I was sitting on a stool in front of St. Joseph's, playing my New York game of people-watching. People-watch­ing is what inner-city folk do in summer, in place of pitching horseshoes. 
Suddenly, I found the SUNY couple standing in front of me, saying hello. "Is this a church?" they said. I was tempted to tell them that no, St. Joseph's only looked like a church, but acmally it was a gigantic telephone booth that had been cleverly disguised. I immediately decided: ''That would be dumb. You have a very heavy-handed sense of humor, Griffin." 
I introduced myself and explained that St. Joseph's was a Catholic church. In turn, they introduced themselves as Steve and Linda. They were both college students spending July and August in Manhattan, living in a Jesus-commune and working as street evangelists for some Gospel seminary that would give them a year's scholarship in exchange for their summer witnessing. I asked them if they knew the Glittering Eye who had warned me I would perish_ 
"Oh, sure," Steve said. "He's street people, out of Hell's Kitchen." Hell's Kitchen is the name given to the west side of midtown Manhattan, running from 42nd street. It's a very tough l!eighborhood. 
"That boy calls himself Uriah," Linda said. "That not his name. "Nobody knows his real name. He was married about three years ago, when he was seventeen. After a year or two, his wife took off, he says, with the assistant night manager from the Orange Julius stand. So he calls himself Uriah because some creep stole his wife. Do you know who Uriah is?" She seemed doubtful whether, given my disadvantages as a Catholic, I could ever have heard of the Bible. 
"Uriah," I said smartly, "the husband of Bathsheba, whose beauty was lusted after by King David. From the Second Book of Samuel, eleventh chapter. King David sent Uriah into battle to die." 
"Uriah says he's been sent into battle," said Steve_ "Sent into battle, and wounded. He says the guy stole his wife sent him into the battle of life, not caring if it killed him. He's only been a Christian for six months. Before that, he worked as an usher in one of the XXXX-rated movie houses." 
Only in New York, I have noticed, do they have XXXX-rated movies. Every place 

The Last Magnificent Meal 
Tim O'Reiley 

Double, double toU and trouble Michiana. We have sampled the cuisine of Fire burn and cauldron bubble. the area in both its best and worst forms, Eye of newt, and toe of frog, partaken of its best and worst drink, doing Wool of bat and tongue of dog, both in liberal doses. The times have been Adder's fork and blind-worm's sting, good, the experiences enrichening and Lizard's leg and howlet's wing ••• fattening In some cases, we didn't know 
Ditch-deUver'd by a drab, when to stop. 

Make the gruel thick and slab ••• As the number of unconquered restau­Cool it with a baboon's blood, rants dwindled to the greasy spoons and Then the charm is firm and good. pancake houses, famine struck Magnifi· cent Meals, leaving us in want. In the ·Macbeth tradition of the Prodigal Son, the time arrived to return home. Home, the 5:00 pm crowds, to the stacks of Observers at Maginificent Meals has ranged broad lunch, to the nonchalant arms of the and wide over the culinary terrain of checkers, to where many of us buttered our 
;,~ ~ · t i l'Ji'#t" '-. \, '• • r, I 
-";. ~ ' ...•· '·1 
-. . '. •t. -, . -' ;~-,.-l·f'\· ,_-,.·,~. t."b'--. 

else, the flicks are only triple-X rated, even if they're the same movie. It makes you worry more about New York than you worry about all the rest. 
"You know, Sir," Steve said. "We really don't believe Uriah. He's only been a Christian for six months; almost all our lives, since we were in Bible nursery school, we've known Jesus as our personal Savior. He's full of anger. He's so angry all the time that there hardly seems room for the Lord Jesus in his life, except as a wrathful God Who punishes the enemies he hates, like the Lord punished King David." 
"Every night," Linda says, "back at the house when we share Scripture verses, he reads the parable that Nathan the prophet told David. Do you remember that?'' I nodded remembrance. There were tv.o men in the same city, one rich and the other poor. The rich man had large flocks, but the poor man had nothing of his own except one little ewe lamb. He reared it himself, and it grew up in his home with his own sons. It ate from his dish, drank from his cup and nestle in his arms; it was like a daughter to him. One day a traveller came to the richman'shouse, and he, too mean to take something from his own flock, took the poor man's lamb and served up that..... David said, the man who did this deserves to die .... Then Nathan said: ''You are the man. Since you have taken the wife 

Fr. Robert Griffin 
first bread and slurped our first soup i South Bend. For only a meal ticket, the South Dining Hall (South Quad, between Dillon and Fisher halls) unsuspectingly allowed us entry after a year of wayward wandering. 
The North Dining Hall, by the dyspeptic standads of the column, barely merits comment. Designed along the lines of early Erectorset, the food is generally one step behind the horrifying architecture. Needless to say, all those who meekly accept such gastronomic assault are not in much better condition. 
In the cozy caverns of the South, however, permeates the handsome wood· work and handmade chairs. Upon reaching the light at the end of the entrance tunnel, Notre Dame's football image comes alive as special guest gourmets, the Holy Cross Hogs (a most deserved appellation),play the Food Services version of "run to daylight", lunging at sickly-colored trays, bent silverware, and over-or understuffed napkin bins. After shoving and bumping a place into one of the lines, eating seems almost anticlimactic. 
It is. Off to one side stands the vegetarian line, as lonely as the Maytag repairman despite its offering of eggplant Parmesian, white-shaded lumps bobbing about in an unprintable sauce. Normal people queued up for pork chops of intriguing hues and shapes, or crunchy lasagna, just .like mom never would have made. Watery vegetables and baked potatoes (medium rare) coming with the entree proved the adage that misery loves company. Dry cake and dry carrots of Uriah the Hittite to be your own 
wife, your family never again shall 
have rest from the sword.... 
"He has so much anger in him," said Linda, "that he uses the salvation promise as though it were his sword." 
"It wasn't a rich man who took our Uriah's wife," said Steve. "It was only an assistant manager from the Orange Julius stand.'' 
Later that night, I went back to Uriah's street corner. I didn't know what I would say to him, unless it was to apologize for being smart-mouthed. A man of twenty shouldn't be so constantly angry. In place of Uriah, there was another young Chris­tian handing out salvatiorytracts. He tried to ignore me, refusing even to hand me a pamphlet, until I asked him if he knew Uriah. He wouldn't tell whether he knew Uriah, or not, probably because he thought I was going to cause trouble. I gave him a note inviting Uriah to see me at St. Joseph's. I don't know if he got the note or not. 
Early the next week, I heard the Jesus-commune had suddenly disbanded. It seems that the promise of the year's scholarship at the Bible seminary was illusory, since the seminary never existed except as a dream in some minister's mind. The young Jesus-folk had gone broke trying to pay the summer's rent_ I wondered what the disappointment would do to Uriah's anger. I was sure it would not make himmorefond of Orange Julius. 
This is an unfinished story. It may always be unfinished, unless, some even­ing on Sixth Avenue, I see the glitter of the prophet's eye, and hear the prophet warning the viper's brood that the Lord is coming soon. 
I write of youth, of love and have access 
By these, to sing of cleanly-wantonness. 
I hope to meet you in a summer crowd, preaching Jesus (hopefully, not in vain), or being preached at, on Sixth Avenue; hustled for heaven in the Friday night crowds; watching people, or being wat­ched; bantering with the witnesses of the Lord. If the witness glitters in the eye, be gentle in your speech with him. He may still be grieving fortheloss of a ewe-lamb. 
Take infinite good care of yourselves this summer. Remember that all of you are as cherished as a poor man's lamb. My summer address, where I would love to see you, is: St. Joseph's Church-in-the-Vil­lage, 371 sixth Avenue (Avenue of the Americas), Manhattan; phone: 212-741­1274. God bless you. Darby and I never said we didn't love you. 
(perhaps leftover from Middle Eastern night) awaited any takers. 
Outside the service area, several varie­ties of carbonated water are available to the prospective drinker, presenting many difficulties since the quality of the flavor changes as often as the weather. Praise must be lavished, however. of the consis· tently good ice cubes, milk, and cottage cheese. (Who says people at the dining halls can't cook?) Upon completion of a boring salad, there seemed little else to do but prepare for the evening entertainment, as the Hogs snorted and grunted through dinner. 
Then it happened. A tender, spring chunk of jello smashed through a window. A hollowed out baked potato exploded nearby, splashing its sour cream filling (too few chives) quite effectively. A rocketing piece of flaky-crusted pie broke someone's jaw, and soon the food flew fast and furious. Quickly, however, demoralized workers and strong-armed dining hall agents ended the sport with a flurry of wrist slapping. Meanwhile, the Hogs continued snorting and grunting. 
Appropriately, this is the place to end Magnificent Meals in Michiana; a place, with its "special nights", has managed to insult more ethnic groups than all of these columns combined. Only nostalgia can glamorize the South Dining Hall, yet it boasts the largest clientele in town. And, like it or not, it will continue in its ways despite popular opinion, or any other such superfluous factors that govern dining establishments in the real world. 
..... 


_-:.. ·~ . i', .._ . 
'. ,' 
,.... ­
; . ~ . 
,.· 
·····~ ·.:--:" 


1 4 the observer
·_c._-=_:_____ 
Carter to speak at ND commencement 
President Jimmy Carter will speak and 
receive an honorary doctor of laws degree 
from the University at its commencement 
cxcerdses on May 22. it was announced 
earlier this semester. The seniors' and 
University community's initial pleasure at 
having the President of the United States 
speak at their graduation exercises was _changed to displeasure when they learned I ha I each senior will receive only five t il·kcts for the exercises. This is due to the limited seating capa<:ity of the ACC arena, the large size of the graduating class, and the expected increase in attendance be­et use of Carter's presence. it was explained. 
One senior, Marty White, organized a 
pl'tition drive and he and Senior Class President Rob Tully presented 850 signa­tures and two letters to University Presi­lknt Fr. Theodore Hesburgh. The petition "''~gcstcd moving the ceremony to the ... tadium. where more people could be anommodat<:d. Student Body President Mike Gassman had suggested this earlier. Hm\l'H'r. Hcsburgh vetoed this plan. 
citing several difficulties with it. 
At the same time. Fr. Theodore Hc-.hurgh i-. celebrating his 25th anniver­..,an as University President. During his :vcars at Notre Dame Hesburgh. who hcca me president in 1952, has brought ;tbout ma_jor changes in the University. including a major expansion and building campaign resulting in new buildings on the North Quad. the Hcsburgh Library and the Athletic and Convocation Center. and the introduction of coeducation. 
Black students stage sit-in 
Charges of "racism" prompted "con­
t.·erned Black students" to sit-in on the 
steps of the Administration Building near 
the end of April. The students complained 
of "injustices and inconveniences levied 
upon (the Black students at Notre Dame)" 
in their protest in letters addressed to 
University President Hesburgh and other 
administrators. 
The sit-in. which was peaceful. was 
intended to make officials aware of the 
. ,"""""~ , fJ *lh r
~ ·~7>:~-"· ~ 
lt,tt0· j ~':.,~. ~ 
r..... ·. ~ 

students' feelings and concerns and was aimed at five specific incidents which indicated "subtle innuendos of separatist tal'tics employed by certain departments and/or sections of the University." U ndcr-represcntation of black students and a lack of committment to affirmative action programs were the group's primary 
concerns. 
Hesburgh responded. with a two-page lt.'tter denying the existence of racism at Notre Dame. but stressing that "if our Blal·k students at times seem to perceive e\idence of racism and prejudice among us. it well behooves all of us to be more alert to what is being perceived and why." 
Carter elected 
On November 2. 1976, Jimmy Carter was voted as the thirty-ninth President of the United States. defeating his incumbent Republican opponent. Gerald Ford, in a, dose race that was not decided until early morning. Carter's election ended eight years of Republican rule, including the turbulent Nixon-Watergate period, marked the first election of a Deep South president in 128 years, and crowned the former Georgia's governor's long campaign out of the political wilderness. 
During the course of the campaign, both Carter and his running mate, Sen. Walter Mondale. visited the Notre Dame campus, appearing before the student bodv. President Ford's son. Jack. also spoke ~ith students in Stepan Center while cam­paigning for his father. 


Disciplinar~ actions 
Two incidents involving disciplinary action by the Dean of Students attracted controversy during the first semester. 
Seven Sorin Hall residents. who came to be known as the "SorinSeven, "were told to move out of the hall within four days on Oct. 28 by Dean of Students James Roemer. The charges made by Roemer against the seven included that they had parties, one a keg party, with "loudy, rowdy" atmos­pheres. that they continually used fire­works in the hall and out the windows, and that they threw beer bottles and water balloons out the window. The seven said they were unaware they wereconsidered a problem in the hall, but Roemer shifted them off campus. 
On Oct. 24, two students from Dillon were caught breaking parietals and, toge­ther with the two Lyons r~~ident<> whose 
EDITORIQP Ten Stories 
At the end of each year, the Observer editors rate the top ten news events which have affected Notre Dame and St. Mary's students during the past two semesters. In no particular order, these are the stories as reported by the Observer, which we feel have had the most impact on the campus this year. 
Laundry machines, pigs top Gassman regime 
The Mike Gassman. Student Body 
President, regime found success in two 
major actions this year -the adoption by 
University officials of a proposal to install a 
men's laundry on campus and a campaign 
to restore dining hall waste removal to 
farmer George Brown. 
The new men's laundry. proposed as a 
result of an investigation of the campus 
laundry problem, begun in September by 
student government when the University 
laundry service was moved from Badin 
Hall to St. Michael's laundry plant behind 
Keenan. The final proposal called for a 
men's laundry to be located on campus and used as an alternative to. and not as a replacement for. the University service. The proposal was accepted by University officials. but the final location of the 
Fund drive launched, halfway point reacheJ 
In mid-April Notre Dame announced the largest fund drive ever attempted by a Catholic university. The Campaign for Notre Dame is a five-year development program instituted to increase the Univer­sity's endowment. with a goal of $130 million. The major portion of the endowment will cover named professor­ships. the Hesburgh Library collection, student aid, campus ministry and a variety of research educational and service pro­grams. The campaign also slates monies for physical facilities. including a class­room-faculty office building. a chemical research structure. an undergraduate resi­dence hall, and renovation of the Adminis­tration Building and Washington Hall. 
The goal of the Campaign for Notre Dame, is to "undergrid our academic future with dramatically increased per­manent endowment," University President Fr. Theodore Hesburgh said. "It's the most important thing that has ever been done at this University." 
By the end of the kick-off weekend. with an inaugural assembly attended by hun­dreds of alumni. trustees. and friends of the University, almost half the goal had been collected in pledges. 
The 



laundry was not set until April, when the basement of Badin Hall was designated for 
its site. 

The "Farmer Brown's pigs"controversy began in late September when the Univer­sity announced the discontinuation of a waste removal plan in wh:ch a local pig farmer had been hauling away dining hall garbage to use as feed for his livestock. After meetings with Gassman, Student Body Vice-president Mike Casey and Tom Soma. director of student government special projects, Notre Dame administra­tors agreed on a compromise which allows farmer George Brown to resume pick up of dining hall waste to feed his pigs. The main complaints of the students were the cost of a new system of waste removal and the ecological advantage of the Brown removal plan. 
Snow closes schools 
The country suffered one of the worst winters in recorded history this year. with temperatures plunging to well below zero and blizzards paralyzing much of the northern sections of the nation. Buffalo, New York, was the hardest hit, but snow flurries were reported as far south as Miami, Florida. Millions were out of work due to shut-downs, children did not go to school for weeks in some pllces, and gas shortages were acute. 
Both Notre Dame and St. Mary's were forced to close for one day when a pre-dawn blizzard on Jan. 28 brought most of Indiana to a temporary standstill. The closing was the first time severe weather had caused cancellations for as long as anybody could remember, according to University Provost James T. Burtchaell, who made the decision to cancel classes and office hours. 
rooms they were visiting, they were dismissed from the University for this semester. The Dillon freshmen, allegedly intoxicated, fell asleep in the room of the Lyons freshmen at about 11:30 p.m. A source said one woke up at about 3 a.m. and the otherthreedecided to sober him up in the shower. A security guard heard them and reported it to Sr. Kathleen Madden, Lyons rector, who referred the case to Roemer two days later. The students thought they would get a lenient punish­ment and they waived their 15 "Student Rights in Disciplinary Proceedings." However, the violations resulted in Roemer's decision not to allow the students to return to school this semester. 
Teenagers riot, injure students 

About twelve Notre Dame students were injured when they were attacked by groups of teenagers who had not been admitted to a Black Cultural Arts dance on Saturday uight, Nov. 6. The people running the dance had decided at about II p.m. not to admit anyone else because approximately 400 people were in the LaFortune Ballroom already and because the officers of the BCAC smelled alcohol on the premises. which had been forbidden by the Dean of Students James Roemer. About 200 people who could not get in gathered around LaFortune and were dispersed from the dance. The crowd swept across campus and split into groups. attacking students who were walking across campus and causing considerable damage to LaFortune 
and  breaking  some  windows  in  the  
Engineering Building.  
Security  was  assisted  in  handling  the  

crowd by St. Joseph County and Roseland police. "But it was just too much for them to handle." a security guard said. 
Bender/Soma elected 

The ticket of Dave Bender/Tom Soma survived a close run-off with the J.P. Russe11/ John Geppert ticket to be elected next year's Student Body president and vice-president on March 3. Bender/Soma accumulated 2001 votes. or 50.28 percent, while Russell/ Geppert wound up with 1979 votes. good for 49.72 percent of the total. Overall. 3980 students voted in the final election. 
Nine tickets were entered in the primary race, which narrowed the field to two on March 1. During the campaign. the Bender/Soma platform centered on in­creasing the accountability and student input of Student Government and a revision of the Student Life Council. The ticket also proposed reforms of Student Union, utilization of potential alumni support and a more equitable system of social space. 
In the first major controvery sur­rounding the new regime, Tom Gryp. Bender's North Quad campaign manager, was selected by the Student Union Ap­pointment Board as the new director of Student Union. Charges about his qualifi­cations were tossed around Student Union and Student Government, but the Board of Commissioners approved his appointment on April 5. 
Complaints cause crackdown near bars 

Bar-going is a popular activity with Notre Dame students, but complaints from residents in the Corby-Eddy area resulted in a crackdown on the bars by South Bend police this semester. 
The South Bend Board of Public Safety announced a plan on March 23 to seek the cooperation of Notre Dame students and officials and city police to solve tavern­related problems. Arthur Quigley, presi­dent of the Northeast Neighborhood Asso­ciation, sent a letter to Dean of Students James Roemer informing him of residents' complaints about noise and litter and other public nuisances. 
Mike Casey, student body vice-presi­dent, organized groups of students to clean up the tavern area and some of the bar owners employ people to clean up the area. However. five Notre Dame students were arrested early in the morning of Sat.. March 27 on alcohol-related charges as part of the crackdown by police. 
Two local bars also received heavy fines this semester for admitting minors. Fat Wally's was t1osed for one week in January as a result of the arrest of three minors in the bar by Alcoholic Beverages Commis­sion agents in November. Nick Bilello, owner of Nickie's, was ordered to pay a $300 .fine for serving alcohol to underage patrons. 



.., 

Yes. 
.

You can be good at passing tests that are meaningless to you. ·•i You can be good at selling encyclopedias that you know are inferior. 
...f

Ultimately, you can even be good at a profession that you 
.•

don't really believe in. ., 
!:. 

You can be good. But for some people, being good just isn't good enough. 
For the people who brew Busch beer, it isn't 
good~enough. That's why, at Anheuser-Busch, we persist in brewing Busch beer just one way-tl1e natural way. 
We. frankly believe that's the best way to brew beer. And when you believe in what you're doing, you just naturally do it better. 
Try a Busch. We believe you'll agree. ·:.• 
BUSCH. 
• I 
Whenyou belie\e inwhat wu're doing, you just naturally do it better. 

-I 
AnheusM-Buach. Inc .. St Louis, Mo 


. ,~;~'· .. -~.,:~ 
.::;! •·-'·."' 

...... 
-. ' ~7 .~' 


~-~-------------------...... 
16 the observer Wednesday, May 4, 1977

I,l 
''·' 
l \ ') "' 
ND's growth highlighted 
aid which increased from $20,000 to 
$85. million and faculty 
compensation. 
The Provost also touched on the 
expansion of Notre Dame to include 
studies abroad and the University's 
role in the service of the church. 
The campaign fund which the University recently started was ~lso mentioned briefly. Burtchaell ctted oneproblem he sees in the futu~e, "which has nothing to do wtth money." He stated the University 
Philadelphia Club sponsors truck 
The Philadelphia Club Truck, which will load on Sunday, May 15 is now taking reservations. Phila­delphians are encouraged to re­serve space as soon as possible and a portion of the payment will be required as a deposit. 
The truck will load at three locations: the Stepan Center park­ing, the Bookstore parking lot and St. Mary's. Baggage will be unloaded at the WCAU parking lot located at City Line and Monument Road, two blocks · from the expressway. 
For information and reserva­tions, call Mike Moran (234-8611) or Bruce morrison (288-7276). 

. lacks a model to pattern ttself af­ter. "We have no other institution 
_ to point to as what we would like to be." He added that even Notre Dame cannot be used as a model since the University contin­ually seeks to improve itself. 
The evening was highlighted with the presentation of the Notre Dame 1977 Award of the Year to South Bend Attorney Edward J. Gray. This award is presented 
. annually by the Notre Dame Club of St. Joseph Valley to individuals who have made significant contri­butions to the University as well as to the community. 
The club president, Joseph Sassano. assistant director of the ACC. presented the award which read: "Edward J. Gray who, with wit and in his quiet way, has warmly touched the lives of many. Known for his wisdom and inte­grity. he truly lives the Christian life. reflecting the values this University holds most important of all. His accomplishments are numerous. We admire him most 
Pre -Med Club to hold elections 
The Pre-Med Club will have a meeting to elect officers for next year tomorrow at 4 p.m. in Room 343 Nieuwland Science Hall. 



for hts unswe~mg lo~e and com­~itm_ent to hts f~mtly; for the mesttmatable contrtbutton he has made to this community; and for his tireless efforts for the Univer­sity and on behalf of this organization." 
Gray, who has served as presi­dent of the club in 1965, had been actively involved in the United Way. Catholic Social Services, the Neighborhood Study Help Pro­gram, The United Negro College Fund, Open Door, Inc., and the South Bend Symphony Orchestra Association. 
Sassano also presented John Teirin, 1976 president of the club with a momenta on behalf of the 


%The Observer 
Night Editor: Paul Schappler Asst. Night Editor: Laurie McNulty, Joe Bauer 
. layout Staff: Sandy Colson, Tracy Herman, Bob Brink, Frank Kebe, Maureen Sajbel, Leigh Tunakan, Barb Lang­henry, Katie Kerwin Editorial Layout: Drew Bauer 
Features  Layout:  Dave  
O'Keefe  
Sports  Layout:  Paul  Steven­ 
son, Greg Solman  

Typists: Kathy Egbert, Mari­anne Corr, Anne Giere, Mary Corbett Early Morning Typist: Kathy Egbert, Martha Fanning Day Editor: Kate Flynn Copy Reader: Barb Langhenry Chris Datzman Ad Layout: Tom Walraith Photographer: Janet Carney 
~ 
' 
' ­
\ 
' \ 


by Martha Fanning Managing Editor 
The Notre Dame Club of St. Joseph Valley held its annual Universal Night, last evening. The reception and dinner was held in the Monogram Room of the Athle­tic and Convocation Center. 
Fr. James T. Burtchaell, Univer­sity provost, was the featured speaker. Burtchaell, addressing approximately 150 guests, spoke on the growth of Notre Dame within the past 25 years. Burtchaell, citing statistics which he termed "suggestive of what has hap­pened," traced the growth of the school in several areas. He presented figures from 1952, the year Fr. Theodore Hesburgh became the President of Notre Dame, and more from recent years. 
Included were statistics on the University's endowment which has grown from $8 million to $108 million; the cost of tuition, $517 in 1952 and presently $3230; financial 
Benefit concert 
Neon Wilde, a band specializing in 
non-Top 40 rock, will give a benefit 
concert in Washington Hall, this 
Saturday night at 9:00 p.m. 
Featuring Tom Hojnacki (drums), Fred Dubisson (bass), Greg Mandolini (lead vocals, guitars), Billy Adams (guitars), and Chip Miceli (guitars). the group has previously performed at the Nazz. several hall formals, and the last two Beaux Arts Balls. Minimum donation is fifty cents and all proceeds go to the logan School for 
the Retarded. 
Maria Pieta award 
[continued from page 9] 
teaching at a small college so 
effective." she said. 
While she admits to finding 
teaching fastinating, "Queenie" as 
she is affectionately known as in 
the department, confesses she has 
no definite way of telling others her 
teaching secret -mainy because 
she doesn't know it herself. 
• • When I give a lecture I think 
is absolutely brilliant, students will 
approach me for two weeks asking 
for explanations of the material," 
she said. "However, when I give 
one that, in my opinion is so bad I 
hope no one outside the classroom 
much less in the building can hear. 
students will say it was really 
interesting.'' 
"likewise when I make up an exam that I think is a gift, students will come out of it crying 'auugh' for days. But when I give atest that should separate the men from the boys, they'll say it was very fair." 
In addition to serving the stu­
dents, Feigl provides much service 
to the college community. Next 
year she will succeed Benton who is 
retiring as chairman of the chemis­
try department. She is a member 
of several committees and is the 
youngest person every to represent 
the faculty on the Board of Re­
gents. Benton added "It is 
interesting to note that the faculty 
has such confidence in her consi­
dering her age." 
Attempting to justify their con­
fidence in Feigl, Kilcline asserted, 
"She's the ultimate in ability and 
grace and can sit on any committee 
in the college. She knows what's 
missing in anydiscussion and adds 
it in a subtle, but efficient way." 
Dr. Mark Bambenek, another 
member of the chemistry depart­
ment, adds further insight into 
Feigl's character. "She's not a 
formal person. She likes order, but 
shows little need for pomp and 
ceremony. She's serious when the 
occasion warrants it; when it 
doesn't, you can see she's enjoying 
herself." 
Students may complain that Fiegl 
is very demanding and can get a lot 
out of her students, butthey usually 
won't admit they're not learning or 
that they're not enjoying it, Benton 
emphasized. 
As Dr. Pilger evaluates her, 
"She's wonderful...what else can 
-said?" 
:,.' 
. ~; 

When there's a challenge, quality makes the difference. 
We hope you have some fun with the challenge. There's another challenge we'd like to offer you, too. 
The Pabst challenge: 

We welcome the chance to prove the quality of 
our beer. We challenge you to taste and compare Pabst Blue Ribbon to any other premium beer. You'll like Pabst better. Blue Ribbon quality means the best tasting beer you can get. Since 1844 it always has. 
PABST. Since 1844. The quality has always come through. 
C1977 PABST BREWING COMPANY Mllwauket:> W1s Peorta He•ghts Ill Newark N J Los Angeles Caht Pabsl GeOfg•a 
61 L I Ll 6Z ~z. <;Z Ol Zl fl 01:. II: ~l ll Vi 6. BBl a ll 91 • ll OL 6l Cl LG aJP WOIIOQ 01 dOl WOJj SMOJ jejUOliJOH :UOfJ"I"S 
" . 

;. 


t 

Wednesday, May 4, 1977 the observer 17 
Stehlik outstanding in netters' split 
by Tom Powanda Sports Writer 

Playing six contests in the past 
week, the Notre Dame tennis team 
split the matches evenly taking 
three victories while suffering the · 
same amount of defeats. 
Starting out impressively, the 
Irish lost only one match in 
streaking past DePaul University 
by the score of 8-1. 
The first doubles team of Randy 
Stehlik and Carlton Harris got 
things going for the netters early as 
they eliminated Sam Wilde and 
Chas Salmon of DePaul. The first 
set saw the Irish go without giving 
up a game winning easily, 6-0. The 
second was a turnabout as the Irish 
duo suffered a 6-2 defeat. The tide, 
however, turned once again as 
Stehlik and Harris came back for 
another easy set taking this one 
6-1. 
In the second doubles position, Bob Kovak and Marty Horan played with the consistency of Harris and Stehlik for their victory. As in the case of the first team, Horaq, and Koval lost only one game for an easy 6-1 victory. The second set saw the Irish suffer a 6-3 defeat. The third set caused no trouble for the Irish as the team took the victory without yielding a game winning, 6-0. 
In the third position, the Irish team of Mark Trueblood and Steve Barrett took the first set in their match 6-2. Their DePaul oppon­ents Mike Farrell and Tony Sum­marco turned the tables on the Irish preventing them ·from sweeping the doubles competition. They took the next two sets 6-3, 6-4 respectively for the win. 
After the loss in the third doubles slot, the Irish netters went the rest of the way without yielding a match, securing the 8-1 victory. 
Singles saw Stehlik continue his prowness on the courts as he took two sets to defeat Wilde of DePaul, 6-3, 7-5. 
Harris, playing number two, won his first set, 6-3. The second was much easier for the freshman as he took the set without giving up a single game, taking the victory with a final set tally of 6-0. 
Horan was next for Notre Dame as he faced DePaul's Larry Walker. Another two set victory saw the Irish secure the match, making the score 5-1 in favor of Notre Dame. 6-0, 6-2 was the end result. 
Adding yet another victory was Notre Dame's Koval. Playing fourth singles, Koval came away with identical set wins. The score was 6-3 in both cases. 
Trueblood was next for the netters. Winning his first set 6-4, Trueblood suffered a 7-5 defeat in the middle set to even the score. The final set was all Notre Dame as Trueblood took it easily, 6-1 to rap up the victory. 
Finishing the scoring for the Irish was Tom Weshphal in the s~xth singles position. After losing the first set to Summarco of DePaul 
by the score of 6-4, Westphal came 
back to win the second set by an 
identical score to even the match. 
Again the third set went to Notre 
Dame with the final tally being 6-2. 
The Irish victory, however, could 
not be celebrated too long as they 
traveled to Iowa the following day. 
Iowa handled the Irish netters 
easily as they took the victory, 7-2. 
The only victories for the Irish 
came from the Irish captain Stehlik 
and freshman Harris, in their 
respective singles positions. 
In the number one slot, Stehlik 
easily defeated Jeff Schatzberg of 
Iowa in identical sets 6-1, 6-1. 
Harris was a victor, but only after 
coming from behind in a tough 
match. Losing the first set 6-2, 
Harris came back to take the 
second set in a struggle. The score 
was 7-5. The third set saw Harris 
again come out on top, this time by 
the score of 6-3. 
After the match, the Irish re­
mained in Iowa traveling to Des 
Moines for the Drake Relays Invi­
tational Tennis Championships. 
The first Notre Dame match saw 
the Irish go up against the host 
Drake squad. They proved to be no 
match for the Irish as Notre Dame 
came away with an easy 9-0. Drake 
failed to take a set and only won 34 
games in the match compared to 
the Irish's 109. 
The doubles teams started the 
contest as Stehlik and Harris 
quickly put away the opponents in 
two quick sets. Yielding just two 
games, the duo took the match in 
identical sets, 6-1, 6-1. 
Next for Notre Dame was the 
team of Trueblood and Koval. The 
victory was almost as easy as they 
too only took two sets for the win. 
The final tally as 6-3. 6-2. 
In the third position, Steve Barrett and Westphal combined for the next victory. Again winning in identical sets, the Irish duo com­bine for the next victory. Again winning in identical sets, the Irish duo combined for two 6-2 scores for the decision. 
Stehlik continued his Mr. Auto­matic role as he led Notre Dame in singles competition. The final score was 6-3, 6-0. Harris also had an easy time of it, yielding just one game in his 6-1, 6-0 win. Horan took his first set without losing a game. Faltering somewhat in the second set, he hung on for the win with a score of 7-5 to take the victory. 
Koval gave up the most games of nay Irish netter on the afternoon, but still to lose a set in his 6-3, 6-4 victory. Trueblood was another easy winner for the Irish as he gave up three games in his first set winning, 6-3. A strong perfor­mance in his second set gave Trueblood the win. 6-0 was the final tally. Closing out the scoring for the Afternoon was Westphal in the number six position. Giving up four games in the match, Westphal took his match in identical 6-2, 6-2 sets. 
The victory was short-lived for 
the Irish as Kansas went on to 
easily defeat Notre Dame 7-2. 
The only winners for the Irish were Barrett and Horan in the second doubles competition as they outlasted Greg Butler and Lonnie Taylor of the Jayhawks 6-3, 6-3. 
The other win for the Irish came 
again in the first singles as Stehlik 
had some trouble with Kansas' Bill 
Clarke. The Notre Dame captain 
took the first set in a tie-breaker 
7-6, and hung on in the second set 
6-4 to wrap up the victory. 
The next match saw the Irish go up against a familiar opponent as once again they faced Iowa. The outcome was the same however, as the Irish suffered another defeat, this time by the score of 6-3. 
Stehlik contributed two of the 
wins to the score as he combined 
with Harris to take first doubles in 
straight sets, 6-0, 6-4, and also 
defeated his singles opponent Rick 
Zussman in three sets. Final 
results of the singles match were, 
Lacrosse team finishes season 
The Notre Dame lacrosse club concluded their season Sunday with an 11-5 victory over Lake Forest College. Pacing the Irish attack was junior Pat Clynes, who tallied three goals, while, mid­fielder John Gray pumped in two., Senior attackman Tim Bingle add­ed a goal and four assists. 
Earlier in the week the team defeated Hillsdale College in dou­ble overtime, 8-7. The contest was extremely close as the Irish man­aged to force the game into overtime with a last second goal by co-captain Bob Driscoll. Club Pres­ident Jay Williams turned in his usual stellar performance with three goals. Mike Kinsella scored the game winning goal and added another and Bingle chipped in with five assists (which ties a school record for number of assists in a single game). 
On Saturday, the Irish were not as fortunate as the experienced Chicago lacrosse club trounced the Irish 12-4. Midfielders Williams and Roger Mongorton and attack­men Tim Walsh and Clynes scored single goals. 
Turning in excellent performan­ces during these contest were the 'forgotten' men, the defense. Goalies Jimmy Scarola and Rich Mazzai and defensemen Jimmy Philbin, Jimmy Williams, Peter Buzaid and Danny Welch played well throughout the entire season. 
The "A" team finishes 8-10 while the "B" squad posted a 4-2 record. The club will lose six players to graduation and especial­ly will miss the leadership and patience of this year's President Williams. Williams, a senior from Duxbury, Mass., has started in every game for the past four years nad this season led the team in goals. Next year, Mazzai will replace Williams. 

·--------------------· --------------------------------------,
i the senior bar announces its: I final regular week special nights we will be open wed. may 18 ~ thurs. may 19 from I p.m. -1 a.m. for senior week with a plethora of specials 
thursday: st. mary's senior's night drink specials 9-1 50¢ seven ~ seven, gin ~ tonic, screwdriver friday: final happy hour 3-? I 
beers 30¢ as usual! gin g tonics 45¢ I I iI saturday night: final regular night beers 30¢ all night iI I mixed drinks 60¢-all night II 
I 1 : 
I plus: unannounced specials ~ door prizes I
L-...___, .. .............. _____________________J
________________ 101 _.~------­

6-2, 4-6, 7-5. 
Harris also won his singles match for the other score. As did Stehlik, Harris took three sets to finally defeat his Iowa counterpart Mark Morrow. The end result was 6-1, 2-6, 6-2. 
The week of play ended on a good note for the Irish as they defeated Kalamazoo College on Monday afternoon by the score of 6-3. All three doubles teams came away with victories as Stehlik and Harris won easily, 6-1, 6-2. Koval and Horan took identical set victor­ies, 6-4, 6-4, and Barrett and Westphal used all three sets before winning their mat~h_... Finf] toll read 7-6, 1-6, 6-4. 
Singles action saw Harris win straight sets 6-2, 6-2. Also for the Irish was a victory by Westphal in the number six position by the score of 6-2, 6-4. 
Closing out the scoring was 
·again Stehlik. The easy 6-2, 6-2 victory was his sixth singles win of the week. The wins also kept his undefeated streak alive by 14, moving his overall record to 18-6 on the season. 
The Notre Dame record now stands at 15-14. Their next match is against Eastern Michigan this Sunday on the Courtney Courts' at 1 p.m. 

~~----------------~----.-------~----~------· 
fiddler on the Roof

~ND 
1The loving theatrical hymn to the Jewish people based on the Sholem Aleichem stories 

MAY 5, 6, 7 S:OOpm THEATRE O,laughlin Aud. 
SMC 
284-4176 $2.50 ($2 std./fac.) 


_ 
SMC holds annual athletic banquet 
______________..,.._________ 
18 the obser~er Wednesday, May 4, 1977 


by Laurie Reising Women's Sports Editor 
St. Mary's College honored its athletes last night at their annual sports banquet. The dinner was emceed by retiring Director of Student Affairs, Stevie Wernig. 
Dr. John M. Duggan. president of St. Mary's, gave the opening invocation in which he stressed the most important aspect of athletics as being the "full and complete development of the woman, for you represent what St. Mary's stands for more than anything." President Duggan also sneaked in his petition hopes for a better overall won-loss record next season. 
After the meal, the first group to be honored was the ski team, which is a joint team with Notre Dame. The nine members each received 
Irish take twelfth 
The Notre Dame golf team finished 12th in the Northern Intercollegiate Golf Invitational which was held yesterday and Sunday at the University of Indiana in Bloomington. Notre Dame totalled 1,169 shots for the abbrevi­ated event that was contested over 54 holes instead of the originally called for 72 due to the large field. 
Notre Dame was in lOth place at the end of 27 holes Sunday evening with a total of 582. The Irish traversed the remaining 27 holes in 587 shots to wind up tied with Iowa for 12th place. 
Freshman John Lundgren paced the Irish with a 228 total that included a 73 in the round that was ­split between Sunday afternoon and Monday morning. Rich Knee, junior captain, posted a 234 for the 
I two days. Sophomores Tim Saurs and Biv Wadden were next for the Irish with 235 for the three rounds. Freshman Dave Knee shot a clos­ing 74, Notre Dame's low round yesterday, to card 240 for the tournament. Freshman Eric Bau­wens was the other Irish golfer as he wound up with a 247 total. 
Coach Noel O'Sullivan will lead the Irish . the Lake Doester Golf Club this weekend for the Bronco Invitational the newest addition to the Notre Dame schedule. The Bronco is hosted is hosted by Western Michigan and will feature a field dominated by the Mid-Am­erican Conference. The tourna­ment will be contested this Sunday and Monday with 18 holes slated for each day. 
from Wernig a pewter mug and commemorative silver dish for their contributions. Maggie Noonan was elected as their most "improved" member. 
The next sport highlighted was the tennis team, who this year finished with an impressive 11-1 record and a third place in the state tournament. Marc Peterson, their coach and a recent ND graduate,. was honored in absentia. 
St. Mary's field hockey team was a new addition this year to their athletic calendar. They finished their season with three losses and one tie. Kelly Sullivan, a freshman, was named as the season's MVP. 
Throughout the ceremonies, con­stant mention was made to the new recreation facility presently under construction and scheduled for completion in late July. According 
*Observer 
Sports 
Weight lifters break records 
In a power lift meet held Sunday at the ACC, campus weight lifters broke many records in three differ­ent categories. In lifts including the squat, the bench press and the dead Jift, Bob Verdugo led the 148 pound class in overan competition, while Steve Fitzmorris broke the bench press record. 
The 165 class saw Lenny Larcara total 950 pounds and walk away with the best lifter award. He also broke his weight class record for the squat lift. 
In the 181 pound dass, Mark Hug totaJled 1010 pounds and broke the mark for the bench press 
Robbie McKillop's 1040 total earned him best lifter in the 198 pound class. McKilJop also broke the record for the combined totaL 
In the 220 pound weight class, Mark Wurfel lifted 1150 to win top honors in the division. 
The 242 pound class saw Mike Meyer break the record for both the bench press and dead lift, in addition to scoring a high for total points in al1 three events. His total was 1015. 
In the super heavy weight divi­sion, Tom Ferenc lifted an 1155 total to win the top honors in the division. 
Greg Schill,
.Sorry you missed the party. 
S 
Really. You missed vour chance and 
I missed mine. Well, maybe
Classified Ad 




CRAB THE DODO BEFORE IT 
GETS AWAY. 
JP-To get back your pants you'll have to tell us in 50 words or less how you managed to get the unusual rip in them. 
Maureen and Geraldine 
SENIORS-Are you heartsick at hav­ing to leave DuLac? Find out what's going on at your alma mater by ordering a subscription to the 0 B+ SERVER.Only SlO.OO for a semes­ter. Stop by the OBSERVER office and place your order now. 
Brian Rock Kearney. 
We have the perfect graduation gift for you-twin mirrors on a beer_ 
Love, 
Your Dining Hall Crushes P.S.How about a salad to go, toOOO 
ERIN, SHARON, AND CAROL: IT'S BEEN A GREAT YEAR! M&M 
LMB, 
Your shoes are tied with my shoestrings, and mine with yours. love, SNMNS 
Cindy Grillot What's the matter with being flat? You'll never have to bend over to see if your shoes are tied! 
French Kisses 
Sunday is Laura Rohrbach's birth­
day. Come on, N.D. males, help her 
celebrate. 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY, LAURA. LOVE, THREE WESTERN FRO NT 
CELEBRATE THE COMING OF AGE OF A LIVING LEGEND! GET NAKED AND THROW ICE ON MAY 6TH!!! 
--G. B. Bangs P. S. If you're puzzled, ask Gary M. 
(hopefully!) next  year.  Until  then,  
take care.  
Anne  

Danny Ramano, 
Thank you so much for last night. Even though it was the first, I know I'll always think of it as the best. 
Love, Suzy 
P. s. Is this okay? 
Dear Friends, Proteges and Enemies, 
Hate to eat and run, but... lt's been great knowing one and all. Just want to say a "personal" good-bye to all the good people I know. Take care always. 
Chris Nazar 
The WILD-BUNCH IV wishes to announce the "passing" on of four of its members-G. B., Hogie, Drew and Fedoricco. Good luck to "new bnes" Rawbutt, Marco and Dom; you'II need it to get along with Buddman and Peo!! To all those associated with us in some shape or form over the last four years, it's been good, bad, real, strange and all of the above. Take it easy, speak and party hardy and sleep cheap. Ad iosces! ! 
---------------I 
Figured after four years it's time to 
thank some people for making work on the Observer something tom Drape for copyreading 4a.m. stories, Chris Smith for a number of things both good and weird, Tom O'Neil for giving me two great jobs and also for the beer and early morning talks, Pat Cole for his reliability, Mary Anne Keefe and Maria for their copyreading and countless night editors and copy. readerswho survived early morning stories and sloppy copy. Thanks again, good luck to those who move on and to those who stay--Keep a smile on and have a good time 'cause it ain't worth gettin' upset over. 

to Wernig,"Once we have the new gym, things will change for the better for sure!'' One new sport she stated that will benefit is the volleyball squad. This year they had an overall record of 4 and 13. Diane Klucka was voted as their MVP for 1976. 
Fencing, another joint sport, was the next highlight. Coach Tom Coyne presented the awards to his girls who completed the 1976 season with a 4-8 record. Debbie Valentino who earned a 15-11 record was chosen MVP. 
Next on the agenda came the basketban team who was praised for the ''hard work despite the lack of adequate facilities." This season they boasted a 9 and 4 record and came in fourth place in the state tournament. The MVP with re­gards to ..Attitude" was Cathy 
Flanner Hall wins soccer title 
Flanner defeated Alumni 6-1 to capture the Interhall Soccer Cham­pionship yesterday on a muddy Stepan Field. Planner remained undefeated in the double elimina­tion to emerge victorious over the thirteen hans entered. 
Goalie Mike Culhane and full­back Mike Desaussure headed the stingy Flanner defense which allowed only two goals an season. Paul Kluck and Rob Peralta led the scoring attack for the winners with three goals apiece. 
Bob Torres tallied two goals in the championship game. Tim Gallagher coached the Flanner team which has advanced to the playoffs the last four seasons. 
Joe Donahue and Rich Preuss each scored a goal and provided excellent midfield play for the well-balanced Flanner team. Rob Howard scored the lone goal for Alumni. 
Maddox. Meg Holland and Martna Kelly shared the "ability" MVP honors. Two players honored their coaches, Monica Doyle and Bonnie Rape, with a poem,"something they wouldn't just throw in their closets.'' 
The last sport presented with their awards was softball. The team entertained everyone beforehand with their personal version of "Take Me Out to the Ball Game." Coached by Wernig, the squad finished with a 1-5 record but said to their coach, "our record wasn't the best and it wasn't the worst, but we all had a good time." 

Mary Garrett was presented with a special award by her fellow teammates for her ''outstanding efforts at every practice and help on and off the field whenever anyone needed it." The team's scorekeeper,Cindy Sofranko, was also thanked for her services. 
In closing the ceremonies, Stevie Wernig thanked everyone for all their time and effort throughout the year and parted by saying, "good luck and keep on winning." 
Sunday Masses 
{Main Church) 
May 8, 1977 
5:15 p.m. Sat. Rev. Rober1 Griffin, C.S.C. 
9 :30 a.m. Sun. Rev. Joseph Carey, C.S.C. 

10:45 a.m. Sun. Rev. Rober1 S. Pelton, C.S.C 
12:45 p.m. Sun. Rev. William Toohey, C.S.C 
Vespers will be at 7:15 p.m. in L1dy Chapel. The celebrant will be Rev. Rober1 S. Pelton, 

c.s.c. 
Sunshine Promotions presents: 

Uriah Heep Nazareth 
Dictators TUESDAY May 24th 7.:30pm 
NDACC 
' 
Tix $6.50, $6.00, $5.50 o~ sale at ACC box office & all usual tix outlets 


) 
( 


NOTICE 

•
LOST AND FOUND GRACE HALL SENIOR MEN'S Debbie O, NIGHT OUT: All seniors who are Although 1 haven't seen you as
O'Neil! 

WANTED: small office type refrig­past or present Grace Hall residents often as I wished you'l always be
You are herewith challenged­
erator. 234-4075 or 288-4310.

(gulp) drinking contest on S•""'­LOST: one white porcelain toilet in are invited to Senior Bar on Monday one of my best buds. Have the the area of Flanner elevators. Des­night, May 9. All beers $.20. greatest time in London-1'11 miss
night. 

perate. Need a ride to Denver, Colorado. you, Bridget!
Beach Beb~ 
Can leave 5-16. Call John 1607. 
To the Rubber Doof(?), Love,

---------------
LOST: a sapphire ring withg a white Here it is, but I'm speechless! SoniaNOTICE 
gold band. LDst April 25. Call Pahl Riders or baggage wanted to Syra­Connecticut Truck. Drops in New 

6756. cuse. Leaving May 7, return to N D SENIORS-leave your mark on Notre To My Dear Ford Dealer,
Haven and Hartford. Campus pick­

May 15. Call Marty 1204 . Dame with a graduation issue A personal just for you: to thank .ups on May 14 and 15. For info and 
HELP! My family's going to dill me! personal. Your last chance to put it you for your Jove, you gentle kindreservations call Kevin at 3340. 
I lost my class ring. The engraving is W QNTED: --;.id;-to-Toledo.-Call in print. quiet nature, your patience, your M FL '77. If someone has found it Peggy 8125. Observer Office thoughtfulness, your incouragementNEED TYPING? Executary, inc. 
Service. please let me know.Mary 3725. ---------------9-5 thru Weds. during hard times, and your beauti­Professional Typing 10 
Ride needed to Chicago Sat., May 7. ful vocabulary.
typists-various typestyles. Term pa­

To the gentlemen that lost a girl out Call Debbie 7906. Dear Throck, Rootspers: $.85 page, resumes: $2.00 
page. Call 232-0898. of their golfcart behind the book­-------------Did you get my flowers? store at 8:15p.m. Sat. 1 left my WANTED: ride to St. Louis Ma-;17 Greg G., glasses in the cart-please call Mary, to 20. No baggage. Debie 7812. Frank Aiello, There is nothing worse than
Cooper's Summer Storage. Pick-up 

at Call 7570. ---------------Here it is-YOUR NAME in lights! someone that goes back on hi:> word!
and delivery dorm. Mrs. 

2 tickets for N.D. graduation. Call Guess Who
The Winged V
Cooper at 272-3004. 

LOST: one pair of glasses in a black 287-2702 after 6:00. case. It found please call Herb Glose RETURNING OBSERVER STAFF. Con,
Niles Auction 802 Fort St. 684-6954 

3455. Need rider to Oklahoma City, Tulsa Please remember me in your pray­Happy belated Birthday,or 684-4671. Auction every Friday at orSt. Louis. Leave 17, Brian 2136. ers during my upcoming surgery fourth Floor FLake Factory7:30. We buy and sell furniture 
LOST: i navy blue with yellow trim May 18.
~ppliances, antiques, and mise: Hope I'll be back with you 
warm-up. Call 8538. Reward. in good shape in September. Kitten, thanks so much for such a1tems daily 12-6 p.m. 
Love, loveable sernester. I Jove you madly 1 ride available to Boston on May LOST: a gold key chain with about 9 "Mom" and will miss you s.o. much this
FOR SALE
keys on it and with name charm23d. Call 1654. · 

"John" attached. Reward offered. Michael, summer
FOR SALE: stereo: BSR turnable,

Call 7096. It's been great! next Beowulf
Accurate, fast typing. Mrs. Donoho ________._;.,. ______ Frazier Speakers, Realtone Receiver Have fun 
232-0746. Hours--Ba.m. to Bp.m. (AM-FM). $110: call Rav 8828 year!
LOST: Minolta camera, Grace or Kateri Velvet Ears­
8829.

Lounge, Sat., 4-23-77. Please return sorry things are so messed up.
2 room apt. available for graduation . Tekawitha 
to Fr. Huneke's office or 306 Grace. Maybe everything will end happily.
! . 
weekend for family of 4 adults. FOR SALE: -Pioneer PL10D tum­
John-1607.

Includes refrigeration and private table with Audio tichnica cartrridge Guenevere, Thanks tor everything. 
bath. Call Ruth McNaughton 287. May thou do well on thine finals Love,
-Rotel Rx Reciever Amplier with 

1466. (non-smokers) LOST: orange wallet in bookstore and we shall celebrate upon comple­Babe
headphones

Tuesday. If found, please call tione.­
-Criterion L-4 3-way spiaker system

TAKING THE LSATin July: LSAT 4-4160. No questions asked. Thine cutie from Morrissey Manor: Today is "Put-in-a-personal-to­
'not yet 9 months old! Call Dexter at 
Barb-day".so 1

Review Weekend at the Palmer Lancelot don't. I'm glad
3554.

LOST: yellow and blue reversable didn't.
House, 17 East Monroe St., Chi­

raincoat with hood. Lost Thurs. Guess Who
cago, Ill., July 9and 10 and at the Severin,
FOR SALE: one 12 by 11 carpet. Call 

Troy Hilton Inn, Maple Rd and night at Nickies'. Please call 4184 Quite a time indeed! There's so
3187 for info. 

Stephenson Hway, Troy, Mich. on ask tor Ziggy. little time left, let's make it good. SECRET ADMIRER-July 16 and 17. Call Law Board Eathan's Cerp Now that you've made me happy
'71 VW bus. Good condition. For

• 
~OST: pair ot eyeglasses (blackwire) and
Review Center, collect (914) 623-details call 277-3517. "undepressed"-we can have 
m a soft black leather case near

4029 or (914) 234-3702. $85. Special Nick, some fun. 
Pangborn and Fisher. Reward offer­Happy "You Know What!" Lovegroup rates for 5 or more. 
RARE FISH FOR SALE. VERY
ed. Call 3059. 
Who me? Chris
CHEAP. CALL 1631. 
Start or advance your career with 

LOST: an I. D. -#ype bracelet without DPH, Mom-thanks for thinking of me.
Mike Sharp, M.B.A. Excellent man­
FOR SALE: 1 parachute; cheap. Call

nameplate. value. I the
agement, sales, and technical posi­a Sentimental Chuck 3303. I LOVE YOU Sorry don't get to answer 
Call for Dave, 3339.

tions locally and nationally. Trainees EGIII phone for you or mess up the or experienced. Call 234-9011 or see 
personals anymore. See you next
FOR SALE: two matching brown 

Mike now. & LOST: gold 1976 Pt. Pleasent H.S. 'py 'thday to you, year!
Snelling Snelling, 
and white patchwork quilted bed­

ring initial Vaike L. Reward. Call Chris
licensed employment agency. 'py 'thday to you,
spreads and coordinating curtains.

3857. 1nv 1~oa. -"-·. _.___ _ ~---·
,...h:amnPr af ~:;";~iii~iCe Building, r-ntbr~v llt'!'t11r -------=::----~==:=---==--I .
!:~~e!~e~~ COfn~;;~onJ c~:i ~~~~,.:~ 1 t<OSema• y,

"""'"""''''--· -· -.. --. -----------­

224 W. Jefferson Blvd., !>ourn l:jend, 'py 'thciav to-you. To all of The Observer gang. IN 46601. LO~T: red Addidas jogging -(and 'ny 're!!) It's been a weird year, but I'm really
SUZUKI: '75-TS185 Enduro. Excel­

dunng mud bath at Chariot Raat 1f glad I joined you all because now 1
lent condition, best offer over $500,
found call Hank, 3327.

English 372-Beginnings In Ameri­Banana-get the pleasure of saying:
W082. 


can Lit. A summer travel course to Happy 21st! May 6th! I QUIT the East Coast. May 23 to June 12. 3 LOST: pr. glasses in light brown QQ, KD, BB, SM (that was for you Mo Flynn)
NO Prof selling '72 Olds F85

case somewhere() Sat. night Chris D.
credit hours. $356. see Mr. Selson­
Fourdoor, air, power steering,
Campus View-N ickies-Library-call

English Dept. smc.(4-4325) Female law student needs to shack
brakes, steel radials, cruise control.

1208. up in Minneapolis for the summer. HAPPY BIRTHDAY CAROLYN!
Very good condition-only 45,000 mi.

LOGAN CENTER VOLUNTEERS: Have long red hair and big boobs. HAPPY BIRTHDAY MARYANN!
$2550. Call 7534 or 234-7953.

LOST: one nonb-peirced, gold, hoop Ask for Peggy-4th floor Lyons. PLEASE RETAIN THESE UNTILTo all volunteers who have worked 
year, earring. Loop one inch in diameter. .THE APPROPRIATE DATES Iat Logan Center this Annual 
'73 Monte Carlo, emerald green,

Awards Banquet, Sat. May 7, If found, call 8067. The double agent in Room 506 LOVE,
black vinyl roof, wire cheel covers,

6:30-9:30p.m. at Logan Cafe. More Regina North has been "extermin­mee
bucket seats, immaculate condition.
LOST: 1 dark brown tri-fold wallet

into call Sue Maude 277.1182 or Jim ated". Have a ggod summer. See
350 4-barrel with dual exhaust, air,
packed with very important stuff.

Scott 287-3975. you in August.
AM-FM stereo tape. $2,950 or best

Call Bill 3991 between 8 and 5. FOR SALE: great blue couch
THE MISSION IMPOSSIBLE TEAM and
offer. Call 272-5550 after 5p.m.

N.D. Rugby Banquet Sun. May 8, gold shag rug. Price negotiable. Call terry Roche's house, 3:30p.m. Ques­LOST: 1 football and 1 basketball FOR SALE: Schwinn 10-speed bike. To Mom and the rest of The 8125. 
Sat. night near the Rock. Reward

tions call Oke 3410. Observerstaff...Well, it's been real.
Best offer by noon Sat. Call 1693.
8406 or 8407. 

Dan Rose A., LOGAN CENTER VOLUNTEERS: Roses are red
FOR SALE: good used refrigerator.
LOST: rewat 1 for return of Juliette

Last Sat. Rec. this Sat. Don't forget Bozo-1 love you! Violets are blue
Standard size for use in campus
solid -state A \ -IFM Electronic Clock

empty wine bottles. You're neato keeno!-------Too bad there won't be any Budds
rooms. $60. Callllq1 or drop by 335
Radio, Mode EL-1980. Information 
for you.
Alumni.
or return to Placement Bureau 

Flanner Adminstration Bldg. or call 8342. 
Abbey-FOR RENT Why weren't you INN April 23, Dear Jeanne and Kim,
LOST: black and red cloth umbrella­1977??? . I hope you enjoyed National Did you miss putting in a housing jumbo golf type. Call 6206. PERSONALS Secretary's Week. Take good care contract? Fed-up with your present Rosemary, of Agent 86 (alias Kukla) and the roommate? Tired with on campus LOST: one ice-blue golf shirt at Ceil-On Thursday you join the ranks of Czar. Have a great summer. living ? I veed one person to split the Green Fields-ball diamond April16. 1'11 miss you too. Really. Love, the MATURE. No longer can you Your Observer Informer cost of a single apartment at Call 6206. Gregg make noise in the library and get Campus View in the fall. Call tom at ---------------away with it. So just have a Happy Chris, 272-2554 or leave message at 1289. FOUND: 1 pair women's glasses in Mike & Steve, Birthday and shutup! We have got to stop messing up 
tan case behind bookstore. Call 8211 Thanks buddies. our heads with all these drugs. Yes, Apt. tor tall in basement. Furnished after midnight. The Peruvian Connection Brigid, this is your basic year-end I had a good time at the party. 
1 

3-bedroom, lounge, kitchen, show­personal. If I ever show up for class Tim er, private entrance. Clean, excel­To the girls from the Passion Pit 3rd next year mayve we'll see each other
FOUND: pair of glasses. Call Audio lent neighborhood. Utitities furnish­Visual office 6423. floor Regina North, Queno's c~urt in the halls again. Don't let the Maureen Carney: ed. Call evenings and weekends. the Sexy Sixpack, and Julie: Than~ bears eat you in the mountains. I love your neck. 233-4703. . FOUND: liner for NROTC raincoat. for a gre"!t sophomore year, hope Joe A Spanish Librarian Call 6206. next year 1S great for you. Summer lease from June 1 to Aug. Des, 
25. Near N. D-4 bedroom and 5 FOUND: a set of keys at the Dear R.L. in 160 Morrissey, Do you have any idea where my TCPD, 
HAPPIEST 21ST! CANT'T WAIT

bedroom furnished houses. 1 bed­computing Center about one week I have seen you through the screen roomie goes every night? I'm afraid TO CELEBRATEl!a 
room and 3 bedroom furnished ago. Call 7728. of your room this semester. 1 hope she may be meeting some dubious 
NUMBER ONE

apartments-call 234-2626. the screen doesn't come between us character. next year. Slim Two bedroom house to rent. Sum 4-4511.
WANTED

mer and or school year. 1012 Eddy Hey Bro, Chris Smith is probably the most OBSERVER TYPISTS (NEW AND St. $120 mo. plus utilities. call Tied the knot yet?!? unusual person ever to grace this VET)
NEED GRADUATION TIX FOR

Oddies Harris at 232-8563. ---ccampus. "Hi there" "uh...yeah" IMPORTANT MEETING THURS+
GRANDPA. HIS LAST CHANCE TO 

Paula Sh;.;ha-;hair -;,h;~hest! "See ya" DAY, MAY 5 AT 6P.M. -OBSER+
SEE A COLLEGE GRADUATION.

4 bedrooms, furnished apartment VER OFFICE TOP FLOOR LA+
Albert,-----------­
8388 OR 8377.

within walking distance of campus. Chris Datzman is legally sane. FORTUNE. HOURS AND TRAIN+ Call William HIll, 232-1724. Sum­Wow! Thanks for the formal. And, .---------------lNG ON THE AGENDA. ANY
WANTED: female summer room­

mer occupancy only. thanks for having a happy birthday Warren Hughes is not. CONFLICTS-PLEASE CALL 
mate. 2 bedroom apt. close to 

too. Maybe you should have two m&c KAREN 4-5441. 
campus. Call 234-6647.

3 excellent houses in fine neighbor­next year! Since it's your birthday hoods. Each ideal for 4-6 students. we migh1 visit you..we do owe you M.O'C., Kathy M-
Need ride to LDuisiana after May 14.

Cost adjusted to number of students o~e ..but don't count on it! Happy Thank you for the fantastic year. l'm glad we stopped at the gas
Will share expenses and driving.

$225-$300 plus utilities. Call Mr. Birthday Albert. -.Jtt I'm looking forward to many more. station.
Call Scott 1193.

Gatto 234-6688. LMF CHECKOUT THEW ARM AFTER­F.W.M. YOU SEE? NOT PLATTO BUT
Attention! In need of member of

Furnished 3 vedroom house for GLOW ON THE APPLE-CHEEKED PLA-A-ATO. YOU SEE?
ND;5MC Community to drive a 

summer includes .washer-dryer. WHIMPLE! THE ABUSE ROOM­
1977 car to Santa Cruz, Calif.(San

$150 per mo. Call Mrs. cooper "We don't know what reality is" Rosemary Hammer:
Francisco area). Arrive on or before --------------­

272-3004. Roses are red Iives on next year in 3 locations. Happy Birthday!
June 3. Call 232-0-453. 

Violets are blue Remember, it's not a pass-out if it's Cake has no calories on Thursday. House for rent on 700 block of Eddy AI Brunett stinks in your own bed. Love,
WANTED: PEOPLETOWORKAT

St. Call Charlie Moore at 232-7180, "So what else is new? The Fricker Sisters and Bill Knapp.
CAMPUS PRESS STARTING NEXT

evenings. Happy Birthday AI Mary Jeanne & Gerald-
SEMESTER. PRINTING EXPERI+ Geralyn & Maureen 1did get Dodor Zhivago and the Greg M lssed you at the ping pongENCE REQUIRE. PAID POSI+

For summer, 3 bedroom furnished sweater fit. Thanks a lot. See you in ball drop!
TIONS. CALL 1796. A.J'.A.-:-----------­

house, walk to campus. $100 per June. Rooster How's the coup? month. Call 259-7488 after 5:00. C.S.P.T. but N.B.D. because Joe Stan Seeep? muchl
F~male-;,:;d;eed'7housing-in 

everything's T.l.T.S. LMH
Mtnneopolls-St. Paul area for the

Two furnished apartments, 503 W. G.B., LITTLE ONE,
summer. Any information-call

Jefferson. So. Bend. DUPLEX three B. You know I hate to say good-bye, FOURTH OF JULY PARTY AT LEO
Peggy 7730. 

rooms each floor. Gas heat furnish­---------------but I've got to say it while 1can (I'm HANSEN-MARK BUDD'S SUM+ 
ed. 219-6307 or 234-0596. DRUNK 'N' TAN-not around that much!). Simply, you MER HOUSE ON ST. VINCENT
W ANTED:'-f;m-:;;--roo;,;.te-to 

YOU MAKE A MEAN WHITE are the best. Thank God for y'all. STREET, SOUTH BEND. WRITEsh~re washington, D.C. townhouse
2-bedroom furnished house, 1133 RUSSIAN! THANKS FOR KEEP­Brent P.O.BOX 737, N.D. 46556 FOR
th1s summer.Call Jennifer at 4-4211.

Corby. 234-7332. ING ME COMPANY ON SATUR+ DETAILS. 
DAY NIGHT! SORRY NO WILD

---------------Rosaleen,
Need ride to Syracuse (May 13), or

FOR RENT: 4-bedroom house, furn­TIMES... Thanks for putting up with me (or JP-We knew you'd leave your
after exams. No bags, will pay.

Tshed and fully carpeted in 1976 THEVEG maybe not putting up with me) this innocence behind whin we showed
Charlie 1620.

This is a very nice house located on past month. Mum is right, you you a "good time" but we newr
DAVE BROWN~------­

LWW near Julio's and Colfax KnOW. suspected you'd leave your pants.
WANTED: six tickets to Fiddler of

School. Rent is negotiable. Call Stop picking your nose! You're Love you, roomie! Maureen and Geraldine
the Root-Friday, May 20. 287-0742.

Terry at 281-7894 any time. really gross! Marti --------------­
. . -.. 

• t 'I ._:1 t3 .-. :·. -_ 4.. , , ... •••,, •\ • It:
I 
• ' . ~ '... l 

~._.. -----~-......... -----.. ---~--.................-...'WI·•· .... ---~.._ ........--~· ---· __.....,_........ -....-,______ --· .... ---·--· \ .....................--. --------~-·--·------------------------·---,_
.,.._.._.,,_.,.,._....., ......,.. .......... ,.... s..a.._-...,..fl'l".r.,.._, .•. -......_ . .,....., ••..-•.w •·••···~' ' 
----~---------------------------------~---------------------------------· 

' \ 1. 0 the observer Wednesday, May 4, 1977 
----~~~~~----~--------------------~--~-----­

Notre Dame athletics in retrospect
by Paul Stevenson scoreboard first on a 26 yard field Th~ tead cha~g_ed ha~ds 29 times for UCLA at Pauley Pavilion, los~ng point, the season began to turn 
Sports Editor goal by Joe Capozzoli. However, ~ntll Due~ Wdhams htt an 18 f<>?t only three_ other _contests to Pactfic around for the talented Notre Dame the Irish scored immediately fol-Jump~r wtth ~1 second~ to play m 8_ teams m thetr long successful icers. lowing the Penn State three-pointer overttme to give the lnsh a 80-79 htstory· The icers then proceeded to go
Attempting to summarize the to take a permanent lead. The lead. . . . _The. Brui_ns were leading 63-60 13 consecutive contests without a events that occurred in Notre Dame Notre Dame drive which was set Brad Davis mtssed a shot with with six mmutes and 17 seconds defeat. The last Irish victory in the sports during the past academic up by a 65 yard kick-off return by f?ur seconds remaining and Wit-remaining in _the game. The Ir_ish unbeaten string came against the year is, at the least, an extremely Terry Eurick, covered the remain-hams gra?bed the rebound to end came back wtth a bucket to brmg Fighting Sioux of North Dakota. difficult task. However, the 1976-77 int 35 yards in ten plays and ended t~e game m favor of the underdog the sc_ore to 63-62. Tl_len UCLA The Irish hosted Denver the athletic season leaves many im­on a one yard sprint by halfback AI Irish. went mto a stall. Batt10n fouled following weekend, and their on­pressions and a great amount of Hunter. The Irish displayed a balanced David Greenwood, who missed the beaten streak had ended. How­anticipation for the future. 
first shot of a one-and-one oppor-ever, their performance was 
Reflecting upon the beginning of tunity. Notre Dame hauled in the thought to be enough to carry them the year, one has to consider the. rebound, and Head Coach Digger into the playoffs.highlights of the football season. Phelps signaled for a time out with The Irish opened the playoffsAfter a heartbraking loss to an 54 seconds remaining. with a convincing 5-l victory over upset-minded Georgia Tech squad, Seconds later, Branning found the Minnesota Golden Gophers.the Fighting Irish football team an opening in the lane and streaked Even though; the series is playedreturned to Notre Dame to prepare past Brad Holland to lay in a by most goal margin and the Irish's for the Crimson Tide of Alabama. back-handed layup for the score, to continued playoff hopes were end-
The Fighting Irish were ready to give teh Irish a 64-63 lead. ed with a 9-2 loss to Minnesota. make up for the performance they Branning then talJied two free Probably, the one thing that is displayed in Atlanta only a week throws after the Bruins fell short on most memorable about the past before. Notre Dame received the two scoring opportunities, to give year was the national champion­opening kickoff and moved the ball the Irish their winning margin. ship earned by the Fighting Irish from their own 24 yardline to the Williams led all scorers with 22 fencing team. 'Barna eight before stalling. Unfor­points, Knight added 13 and Batton Notre Dame defeated 54 oppos­tunately, their offensive output contributed ten to the Irish winning inc schools in the national competi­proved worthless, as Dave Reeve's effort. tion held here at du lac, enroute to field goal attempt sailed wide to the The Irish proved themselves to their NCAA crown. At the conclu· left. be a national contender in this sion of the regular tournament •. \ Head Coach Dan Devine has compiled and overall record of 17-6 as
The Irish failed to lose confiden­contest. The Notre Dame student play, the Irish were tied with 
mentor of the F Irish.

ce because of their opening, unsuc­body realized that even though the defending champion, New York cessful drive and proceeded to squad had lost their 30 p.p.g. man, University, and were required tc move the ball from their own 30 to this team was dedicated and work-participate in a fence-off for the: the Crimson Tide two on their next ing together. They were "for real." nation a 1 t i t I e . possession. However, Steve Orsini 
The crowd of 3000 people, which The order of the fence-off was fumbled the ball into the endzone awaited the return of the Notre sabre, foil, and epee. The school and Mike Tucker recovered for Dame team at 3 a.m. on a cold which was victorious in two of 
Alabama. 

mid-December morning exempli-the three weapons would claim the The young Irish had compiled 
fies the importance of this game national title. 136 yards in the first seven and a and the spirit of the Notre Dame The Irish captured the first two 
half minutes of the contest, but 

athletic tradition. bouts on stellar performances by were still wi!_hout a ~!!!! ~n the The date of March 5 will alwavs ~wid rn(",.~~, ..,; _____ "' · ' ­
... ... _:.:::; "'•um:=r~ rai \Jerard and scoreboard. be etched upon the minds of Iri~h ·MikeSullivan. Tim Glass was not At the conclusion of the first enthusiasts. The number-one rated required to compete in the final quarter, the Irish began their first San Francisco Dons invaded the bout. Thus, the Irish claimed the 
; ) successful scoring drive. After ACC for the first time with an National title, the first in Notre 
I 
moving the ball 24 yards from their unblemished 29-0 record. Dame history. own 20 to the 44, Rick Slager Forty minutes of play later, the In addition, Head Coach Mike opened the fourth quarter with a Don's record had fallen to 29-1, a DeCicco was named NCAA Coach 56 yard aerial strike to receiver Dan prediction that the Notre Dame · of the year. DeCicco and his Kelleher. The Irish held a 7-0 lead Head Coach Digger Phelps has guided his Irish cagers to four student body had been chanting fencing squad hold an unbeaten after the extra point by Reeve. consecutive NCAA playoff appearances. throughout the contest. The vocal string which stretches over the past 
Although Notre Dame struck support of the "greatest student two years and 67 matches. again on their next possession, Notre Dame continued their do­scoring attack, something that body in the country," earned the One has to anticipate the future, Alabama soon narnm·cd the score mination on the gridiron by moving would be featured in their perfor-students Most Valuable Player as the Irish return both gold medal 1-t-7. Immediately, the Irish would the ball handily against the Nittany ·mance throughout their 1976-77 distinction. winners to next year's returning itH:n:ase their lead to 14 points. Lion defense. At halftime, the Irish season. Toby Knight led the-team The game was the twelveth for championship squad. Notre Dame \ntre Dame tallied again on their held a 20-3 lead. with 19 points and Williams added the Irish in their last 13 outtings. will need to replace Tim Glass in nl'xt opportunity, driving 72 yards · The Irish had 11 downs in the 16. Dave Batton and Bill Paterno The game was also number 20 in epee who will be lost to graduation. 111 ten plays in three minutes and 41 first half compared to five for Penn -tallied 14 and nine points respec-the victory column, a win which Notre Dame sports have expand-
State. Notre Dame amassed·~~ 191

~econds. Fullback Vagus Ferguson tively. insured an NCAA bid for the Notre ed in tradition year after year. Each capped the drive with a six yard run yards total offense, while their The Maryland game was only Dame cagers. season, there is memorable event around right end for the touch­opponents managed only 96. Penn an indication of things to come as The Fighting Irish hockey team which is imprinted upon the minds down. State threatened several times in Notre Dame returned to California, got off to a poor start, losing three of Notre Dame fans as well as 
the second half, but the Irish

The Irish dominated Alabama this time for basketball, and this of their first four contests. How-inscribed into the Notre Dame with a 365 to 167 advantage in total maintained their lead and handed time emerge victorious. Notre ever, the injury-plagued Irish splits record books. yardage in the first half. However, Head Coach Dan Devine his first Dame dealt the UCLA Bruins their against Wisconsin and Michigan The 1976-77 season was not an the Crimson Tide was soon to close bowl victory as Irish mentor. first non-conference loss at home in Tech. exception to this rule. Mprethe margin in both statistics and When most Irish eyes were 115 games and over 15 seasons. The Fighting Irish hockey team cherished victories were attained scoring after intermission. The in sunny Californiaw The Irish used an array of got off to a poor start, losing three which added to the long list of Irish defense held on to give Notre watching the Irish put forth a defenses and some late heroics by of their first four contests. How-Notre Dame conquests. In addition, Dame a cherished 21-18 victory and supreme effort on the gridiron, freshman Rich Branning to defeat ever, the injury-plagued Irish re-the past year tends to add atn a 3-0 lead in the series, which only to fall short against the the Bruins 66-63 at Pauley Pavilion. bounded with splits against wis-enlightened outlook for the futu~e includes two bowl game confront~­Trojans of the University of South­That defeat marked the first ti~~-,. -~~-~~!~ -~~.~-~i':~~gan__T~ch. At that athleticc~ntests.. . tions. ern California by a 17-13 margin, Frank LaGroHa r~=:=:=:=====:=====:::::::=·=·=:=:=:=:===:=:=:=======:=:=========================================================================================:===:=:=:======================:====:===:=:=::::::::=== 
Another highlight Iof the football their eager counterparts were tipp­season has to be the December 27 ing off their 1976-77 campaign in 
One More Time
clash with Penn State in the Gator College Park, Maryland. The Irish Bowl. The Irish made their first basketball team was unranked 

appearance in this classic. Many going into this contest. After =====;=~=~=;=:=======:=====;===========~=========:=======~===:=:=~=:=~===========================:=======================:=================:=====:===================:::::;:;::=::;:;:;.J The ItaIian StaIIion felt the Irish should not participate losing Adrian Dantley, not much There's always been something of the attic' to 'admire'once.or' twic-e anyplace that the situation calls for in this "minor" bowl, but the was expected of this cage squad. special about Notre Dame. a year. It's right now, real, and it. It was more than a publicity Really, stop and think. Admit-made up of every student on this gesture when NBC announcers
Notre Dame gridders turned in an However, the Irish shocked ev­

excellent performance, hopefully eryone by upsetting the Terrapins, tedly the name "Fighting Irish" cam~s. awarded the student body the Most indicative of their future capabili­80-79 in overtime. This victory conjures up memories in the mind Now the cynic may laugh at or Valua~le Player honor at the San 
I ties. rocketed Notre Dame to an eighth of a football fan more than any question this statement, or perhaps Franctsco basketballgame. 
p-The Nittany Lions reached the place ranking in the poles... other t~am, college, professional or wonder how he or she is part of the "We are ND!" is more than just otherwise.. The Four Horsemen, legend that engulfs the campus of a catchy cheer. 
I Rockne, Lujack, Hornung ... all mer. Notre Dame. . very much a part of the "Notre Stop and think. The stgns and banner~ that deck
I ; 
Dame Legend" that everyone talks If you participated in the Book-the camp~s before the big gam~ ...
8-ball ticket dlstri6.ution

I f ..:.. -. . -.. .·.··.· .. -:< ..-.·---:·:( -. about. What football fan, or Ameri-store Basketball Tournament, then t~e cheenng ap~ t'; ~and playmr I ~ Ticket applications for the 1977· available· to juniors and seniors at can for that matter, hasn't heard you were a part of the Notre Dame t e greatest 0 1~ .t. songs ...a 1 
I 
1978 basketball season wnt· be this time. If an of. these seats. are the phrase: "Go out and win one tradition. It is undeniably some-0[ thes~.t~ cr~d~~~~~ t~ thCI mailed to Notre Dame students, not used, sophomores and fresh:.. for the Gipper?" thing special when over 1300 ~oga:, ,maS e do e~ :bm~
0 1

I 
including graduate and law stu· man will be allowed to purchase Of course, Notre Dame's Hall Of students can participate in a single u~ e~. n~ th &end a doo ~II,
I 
dents* during the summer. Re-these seats in the fall. Fame does not end on the gridiron. activity and, with no faculty super-wee. en tn ou en . a~ _you _ quest forms will be sent in mid-July '•At this time, underclassmen If you're dropping names of Irish vision, display the character and realiZe that statement tsn t JUst a 
i1 
giving the students one month in are urged to purchase a bleacher notables· you can't exclude Austin sportsmanship that those involved cute ph~as~. wltich to return their applications to seat. to guarantee they have a seat Carr and Adrian Dantley, two of with the Bookstore tourney did. The InCident most though* of
'i 
insure a seat for the basketball for next year,'' Michael Busick. the greatest basketball players ever The teams battling each other and when trying ~o describ~ the spirit·
I) 
season. ticket manager of the ACC. stated. to walk on a college hardcourt. playing their guts out to win the that haunts thts campus IS that cold 
The price of the season pass has ~'They will be able to change to They, along with many other past final game, yet, when the game Sunday morning in December not been announced, since the lower arena seats in the fall if the greats have insured that there is ended the losers and the winners when the Notre Dame basketball entire schedule for next year has juniors and seniors do not exhaust literally n? place like Notte Dame embraced and congratulated each team returned victorious from 
I 
~·· 
not been confirmed. However, the the supply." for athletics·. other realizing that it was still, UCLA. Sm~thered _by the 3000 price per game will remain the The manner of distribution will However, the "something spe-"only a game." people crowdmg the ctrcle at 3 a.m. same as this year. Lower arena be announced in the fall. In cial" about Notre Dame, the thing Now, that's really Notre Dame. ·in sub-zero weather, it really struck l 
seats will cost two dollars per addition, information about the that sets it apart from any other Of course there's the famous me that all the talk about Notre game, while bleacher seats will tickets for St. Mary's students will school in the country is that the Notre Dame student body, who's Dame was really true. There really cost Sl.SO per game. .lso be announced at the start of !egend isn't ~ounded in the past. It spirit is evident at football games, is something , special about N~tre 
Sale of lower arena seats are only .ext semester. ts not an antique that one takes o';lt basketball games, pep rallies or Dame, and we are all a part of tt. 
i 
, lI ~-[ 


The Maryknollers ... a worldwide mission group 
of priests, Brothers and Sisters working to alleviate spiritual and material ills in Third World countries. 

Maryknoll Missioners take care oft} 

Performing a range of spiritual and corporal works wherever they are as· signed, Maryknoll missioners recognize and try to take care of their peoples' human needs. None is more important than their need to know God and the ultimate meaning this gives to human life on earth. 
Christians who recognize God as their Father, Jesus
Just what is 

His Son as both their Savior and their brother, and people everywhere as their brothers and sisters, know that the happiness and salvation of every human being is their Father's business. 
For young Catholic men and women in their college
yourFatherS years, one exciting way of going into this business is to become a Maryknoll missioner. Maryknollers labor in 22 developing countries, helping the people in these countries realize their full dignity and potential as chil­dren of the one Father, God.business? Maryknoll is permanent commitment 
Young men and women who become Maryknoll priests, Brothers and Sisters make a lifetime, celibate 
~eirFather's business in 22countries. 

How are Maryknollers prepared for their work? 
Candidates for the priesthood and most candidates for the Sisterhood must be college graduates. For the Brotherhood, two years of college or experience and skill in a trade are required before entry. 
Young men and women admitted for training as Maryknoll missioners have varied preparation depend­ing upon the branch of the mission apostolate they choose. In general, however, all are given the benefit of carefully planned orientation, theological education and overseas mission training to prepare for careers as effective, durable missioners. Length of training time for all candidates averages about five years. 
More specific and detailed information about the orientation and education of priests, Brothers and Sisters will be sent in response to the card below. 

How can YOU decide whether you should become a Maryknoller? 
There are probably as many answers as there are indi­vidual Maryknoll missioners. Some are deeply moved when they hear of babies dying in their mothers' arms because of hunger or disease. Others are distressed by the growing antagonism and separation between the rich and the poor nations. More are concerned about the great injustices that have been inflicted upon the poor. Others look to learn from peoples who have grown up with a different mentality than their own. 
All feel that the only solution to the crises that threaten to split men asunder is the love of God as shown in the life of His Son, Jesus Christ. This love of God urges us to be missioners so all can come to love one another as children of the same Father. 
What could be your reason for joining Maryknoll? 
---------~---~----~---------~~:~---~------------------7------------------------------------------~---­
SP7 
DIRECTOR OF ADMISSIONS
Mail this card for 

Maryknoll Missioners • Maryknoll, N.Y. 10545 
more information 

Dear Father: Please send me information about becoming a Maryknoll
about the life and 
D priest D Brother D Sister. 
traini1~g of 


Name____________________________________________
Maryknoll 

Address,_________________________________________
Missioners. 

City __State___ Zip Code·--------­Age Phone___ Class.__________ College____________Year of Graduation___ 


Maryknoll 


This is not an easy task, and many more generous young Americans are needed to accomplish it. Mission work is varied and changing because it is creative and human. Although it is a work as old as Christianity, the good missioner must be open to new possibilities of carrying it out. A deep faith and a capacity to love are necessary to live the life of a Maryknoller. If you have such faith and love, or feel you can develop them, Maryknoll is inter­ested in you! 
Missioners... 
will welcome generous new 
co-workers in Africa, Latin 
America and the Orient. 

Maryknoll priests, Brothers and Sisters already at work are trying to clarify and deepen the sign of Christ's love in other lands. Their goal is to awaken a hope for Christ in other people-to instill a confidence in local leadership to search for ways of opening up the community to the Holy Spirit by the strength and love they inspire. Their tran­sient role is a symbol of the pilgrim Church moving through the world. 
.s:~-_: -:-_­

For more information, 
mail this postage-free 
reply card today. 
FIRST CLASS Permit No.1 Maryknoll, N.Y. 
BUSINESS REPLY MAIL 
No Postage Stamp Necessary if mailed in the United States 
Postage will be paid by-
the Illaryknoll Illissioners 
Maryknoll, New York 10545 









