~----­
Robertson assesses human rights in lecture 
American States (OAS) and the A Global Assessment." His lec­U.S. Commission on Human Rights ture. in the Center for Continuing ertson spoke on "Human Rights: 
of "systematic violations of human Education, is also part of this rights in Chile." He related that 
year's international symposium on non-governmental organizations human rights and American for­have collected evidence of the eign policy. regular use of torture as "a current 
practice in various Latin AmericanIn speaking on the negative countries, particularly Brazil.''
aspects, Robertson said, "One "In the case of Argentina andcannot help but be depressed by 
Uruguay. President Carter hasthe mass of information about considered their human rights rec-flagrant violations of human rights ARTHUR H. ROBERTSON 

The Observer 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's Thursday, April 28, 1977 Vol. XI, No. 121 
Gryp moves to stop Cinema 78 
that is constantly published.·' detinition racial discrimination and ords so had that he has rc..·duced Radal Discrimination is ''useful."
by Kathy Mills He noted the Apartheid policy in therefore violation of human American aid," Robertson stated. BHt Robertson noted.· ''The mostExecutive Editor 

Arthur H. Robertson, professor Southern Africa which ·'involves by rights." He pointed out. "In many "In Cuba there are reported to be cfftx·tive syslt.'m yl'l developed for of law at the University of Paris. 
other countries in Africa there is a between 4.000 and 5.000 political the..· inlt.'rrwtional protc..·l'lion of hu outlined the negative and positive 
sad record of detention without prisoners; in Guatemala. about man rights is that established by aspects in the situation of human 
trial and executions for political 15.000 persons arc said to have the European Convc..·ntion for the rights in the world and tried to 
opinion.'' been killed by political terror Protel'lion of Hunwn Rights and strike a balance between them in 
Robertson also stated that there squads in the..· last six years." Fundamental Frc..·edoms, c..·oncludcd has been extensive evidence collec­Robertson ;tlso cited other coun­hv the..• memhc..·r Statc..·s of the
his address last night. As the speaker for the Sixth 
ted by the Commission on Human tries including Indonesia, Iran and Council of Europe and signed in Annual Civil Rights Lectures, Rob­Rights of the Organization of Iraq as evidence of violations of Rome on Nov. 4, 1950." 
human rights. These violations After desaihing other advances include executions, prolonged de­made in Europe..· for the c..·;utsc..· of tention without trial and inhuman human rights. Rohntson turned to conditions of detention. He noted dc..·vdopments in the Amc..·ric..·;ts. that "Wholesale massacres in "In the Western Hemisphere..· then· Cambodia have been reported." is re;tl cause for regrl'l at the sc;mt Robertson added that it is widely progress made towards bringing believed that there arc 10.000 into force the American Convention political prisoners in the Soviet on Human Rights nmduded in San Union. Jose, de Costa Rica on Nov. 22. 
He acknowledged that all these 1969,·' he st;!lt.'d. He noted that the reports "constitute a somber pic­treaty required eleven ratifications ture. "But we must not blind but so far "only three ratifit·ations ourselves to unpleasant facts," he hove been deposited, those of continued. "A global assessment Columbia, Costa Rica and Venc..·z­of human rights in the world today ucla." requires us to take account of the Robertson also mentioned the negative aspect and to recognize institution of the Omhudsnwn. that violations are widespread and which protects the citi;.c..·n against tlagrant." maladministration on the part of 
Robertson characterized the gen­public authorities. Sweden. Fin­eral picture of human rights as land, Denmark. Norway. the Fed­"not only discouraging but alar­eral Republic..-of Germany, the ming." He added, "We are told United Kingdon, Northern Ireland, that the principles of liberal dem­Franee and Switzerland have adop ocracy, with its respect for funda­ted this institution, with local mental rights, are observed in variations, he noted. fewer than 30 countries today." He stated that it is not possible to 
'·However, the picture is not strike a balance between the nega­entirely black," he pointed out. tive and positive factors in human "A number of positive features rights in the world with any degree may be observed and give comfort of precision or certainty. However, to those who are concerned about Robertson noted, world public op­the state of human rights in the inion has changed and, for many world." millions of people throughout the 
He described two U.N. coven­world, individual opinion has chan­ants. the International Covenant ged. "World public opinion on on Economic, Social and Cultural these matters have changed inthe Rights and the International Cov­last SO years in a way which would enant on Civil and Political Rights, have been inconceivable when as "the most important recent some of us were young,'' he said. 
by Jack Pizzolato commissioner said she felt all the number of "cultural" films development on the international "It is bound to go on changing in 
Senior Staff Reporter decisions concerning movies shown. scene." The first protects ten the years to come." should be made by her commis­Canavan asserted that before economic, social and cultural "Though there are many somber sion. "I don't think the purpose of Gryp became SU director his rights, while the second protects 23 aspects of the human rights 
A move by Student Union Direct­the Cinema series is what the organization submitted a proposal civil and political rights. He also situation in the world, never in or Tom Gryp to eliminate the students want," she said. Bona to the Student Union which called noted that the work of the U.N. recorded history have so many Cinema 78 film series next fall is also stated she planned to cut down [continued on page 6] Committee on the Elimination of (continued on page 51drawing strong criticism from members of that organiz.ation. 
Indicted in Chicago
Gryp will submit a proposal to the SU Board of Directors tomor­row evening giving the newly established SU Movie Commission 
Professor charged with smuggling
sole choice in the selection and classroom and that there has been any decisions will be made after the Provost will "appoint two memberspresentation of Union sponsored by Drew J. Bauer 
films. The proposal would formally no mention about the situation by matter has been decided by the of the Academic Council to attempt
Senior Staff Reporter

abolish the Cinema series, a group his students to him. courts. Dr. Edward W. Jerger, a conciliation in private" before 
established in the 1960's to pro­Assistant Notre Dame Professor However, Plati refused to say associate dean of engineering, also formal charges for dismissal are mote and exhibit noteworthy Amer­Enrico F. Plati and Pacolo Ber­whether University officials have said that a decision concerning brought against a faculty member. ican and foreign films. The nardi, arrested in late January for asked him to resign because of the dismissal was premature. Ifthe conciliation fails, and if the smuggling foreign cars into the matter, or if they have brought to Fr. James T. Burtchaell, Univer­member demands a hearing, the
organization, numbering approx­
country, were indicted by a Chi­his attention the dismissal rules in sity provost, who would ultimately Academic Council would then
imately 25 members, is a branch of the SU Cultural Arts Commission. cago Grand jury earlier this month. the Faculty Handbook. decide if it would be necessary to appoint a committee offive tenured An arraignment has been set for Plati, who is presently free on terminate Plati's services, refused members ot conduct a formal
Cinema 77 Director James Can­
May 3. · bail, also refused to explain why he to comment on the matter. hearing. At the hearing, the ac­
avan has charged that the Student Union is concerned with "money, Formally charged with conspir­never told the chairman of the According to the procedure out­cused faculty member can bring his ing to defraud the United States architecture department, Ambrose lined in the Faculty Handbook, the
not culture." "The Student Un­[continued on page 3I 
and illegally selling imported for­M. Richardson, of his arrest inion." he said, "equates profit with eign cars, were Plati, an architec­January or of his indictment earlier
interest." 
ture teacher for the last six years, this month. Richardson first heardAccording to Canavan, the Cin­and Bernardi, from Turin, Italy. of both. matters when a Chicagoema series was established to Three other counts of the four­Tribune reporter called him for aprovide students with the chance to count indictment issued in the U.S. comment.
see "quality" films. "We realize District Court of Northern Illinois, "I was kind of embarrassed thatthat some fine films don't draw big 
on April 19, alledge that in Jan­he didn't tell me about the mat­crowds," he continued, "but if you uary, the two men received, con­ter," said Richardson earlier "but Ican't see them at college. where cealed and facilitated the sale of guess that was his decision. Wecan you?" Canavan further re­
three cars. were completely surprised by themarked that this semester's offer­The three cars cited in the news."
ings have drawn a record number indictment were a 1970 Ferrari When the news of his arrestof people. 
Dino, a 1969 Mercedes Benz 280 SL came out in late March, Plati was inFormer SU Movie Comptroller and a 1966 Mercedes Benz SL 230. Chicago on a field trip with otherChris Wynne revealed, however, Plati and Bernardi may also face professors and students. Richard­that last fall the Cinema 77 series similar charges in Michigan stem­son said at the time he planned tolost approximately $1,500. "The ming from the seizure of six cars in talk to Plati as soon as possiblerevenues did not cover the cost of Kalamazoo at the same time. about the matter, although hethe series." he said, "and it took a According to the University Fac­considered Plati innocent untilconsiderable amount of the SU ulty Handbook, a professor may be proven guilty. "And I am sure that
budget to keep it running." 
dismissed if he is convicted of a some others would like to talk toAlthough Gryp announced that felony. The charges against Plati him too,'' he added.
he had made no final decision afld are of a felonious nature. Last night, Richardson said thataccused the Cinema 77 members of 
Although officials refused to although he had talked to Plati, on
"overreacting," he said he person­discuss the matter yesterday, Plati, several occasions since March,
ally thought that the film series was who is still teaching, was available they had not discussed the matter
''not the best way to use the funds 
for comment. of his arrest, or indcitment.
available." Gryp advocated that "I have not been convicted vet "Really, what am I to say to thethe Student Union next year pre­and I may not be convicted," s~id man. What he does on his own issent a "package" of ten films Plati. "We will just have to wait to his personal business."
seeking the advice of present see how it will turn out," he added. Richardson said that it wasCinema 77 members. "But they've The untenured assistant profes­"entirely too premature" to talkgiven us no cooperation whatsoever sor added that it has "absolutely about the department taking anyon this," he complained. 
not" effected his work in the action against Plati. He said thatBonnie Bona, the new SU movie 

-----------~-~---..............--­
the observer 



-----!\!ewe Briefs---­
t=========Intemational 
Archbishop, Pope discuss unity 
VATICAN CITY (AP) -The Archbishop of Canterbury arrived yesterday for a series of meetings and prayers with Pope Paul VI in an ecumenical swing that may remove some ofthe obstacles to unity of the Roman Catholic and Anglican churches. Dr. Donald Coggan was greeted by Jan Cardinal Willebrands, who heads the Vatican's Secretariat for Christian Unity, on his arrival from London on a commercial flight. 
The primate of the Church of England and spiritual leader of the worldwide Anglican Communion, including Episcopalians in the United States, will meet twice with the Pope during his three-dav visit to Rome. 
~===========National 


Committee ok's Energy Dept. 
WASHINGTON (AP)-President Carter's proposed Department of Energy cleared its first legislative hurdle when a House subcommittee approved the bill after curbing the power to be given the new Cabinet-level secretary. 
The approval by the legislation subcommittee of the House Government Operations Committee was the first by any unit of Congress on the proposed legislation. However, the legislation reported out by the subcommittee does not give the head of the new department all of the powers Carter suggested. 

Carter seeks welfare change 
WASHINGTON (AP) -President Carter, weighing welfare revision proposals he sees as "dramatic and fundamental," announced yesterday he will present recommendations to Congress on the subject early next week. White House Press Secretary Jody Powell made the announcement for Carter and said the President is reaffirming his commitment to treat welfare revision ''as a major priority of his administration." 
t::::===================Local f1erWeatherWeatherWeathe The skies will be partly cloudy this afternoon with highs in the low to middle sixties. Temperatures will drop into the thirties tonight with a light frost expected. 
--On Carnpus Toda~, _ _. 
11am-5pm --art show, by don & jim vogl, two man show, father 1 and son: a serious approach to playful art or a playful approach to serious art, isis gallery. 
7pm 

--meeting, bicycle club, Iafortune basement. 
7:30pm --lecture, "satanism, witchcraft, the devil and the medieval mind," by jeffrey russell, director, medieval' institute, sponsored by art department, art gallery. 
1 
--question and answer session, "the truth of reason and i the truth of vision," by prof. eric voegelin, lib. aud.
8pm 

--concert, olivia newton-john, ace, tickets $7.50 &8pm $5.50. 
--performance, faculty talent show, sponsored by music8pm 
department, smc little theater, admission free. 
8:15pm --lecture, "human rights and china", by prof. mab huang, department of political science, state university of new york, oswego, sponsored by institute for international studies, area studies reading room, memorial lib. 
9pm-11pm --nau, jake schneider and bill carey, nau. 


Nazz closes season with Logan benefit concerts~ 
by Michael Lewis good sum of money for a good. Staff Reporter cause," he continued. Next week the Nazz will close its 
All of the performers slated for season with a series of benefit 
next week have performed many concerts for the Logan Center. 
times at the Nazz and elsewhere. "This is the perfect time for 
The Nazz guarantees an excellent students who haven't been to the 
show each night. Nazz to see what we can offer,"· The schedule for the next week is said Dave Shaheen, director of the 
as follows: nazz. Monday -Anne Morairty, Rex The .shows will run from Monday 
Delcamp and Michael Ts11bota. 

thru Saturday, and will all start Tuesday -Jack Kelleher, .Ed promptly at 9:30. Volunteersj from Schwallie and George Adello Logan Center will be there each Wednesday -John Steinman, Bill night to collect a minimal donation I Boris, Kevin Chandler and Burt 
of SO cents. . 
Gieseman. ''This is a chance for students to I 
Thlll'8day -Greg Mandolini and show support for their next door 
Dave Shaheen. neighbors at Logan," Shaheen ·1 Friday -The Notre Dame Second sa.idh,-""""With a lot of student 
Jazz Combo ".-i Saturday -The Neon Wilde Band.
support, I'm sure we can raise a' 


SMC 'tandem' courses succeed 
by Jean Powley passed the writing proficiency re-added to the understanding of St. Mary's Editor quirement. both." 
The third tandem course se-Vacca cautioned, however, that Editor's note: quence taught last fall was a joint in order to get the full value from a effort of the English and religious tandem course, "there must be an This is the last article of a studies departments. Sister Eva exchange of staff." Teachers must four-part series on innovative, edu-Hooker, assistant professor of Eng-attend each other's classes. How­cational programs at St. Mary's. !ish, taught "Image, Emblem and ever, it is very difficult for a 
Freshman year in college is Icon" while Sister Elena Malits, professor to prepare for an addi­usually a "smorgasbord" of discip-chairman of the religious studies tiona! class, she said. lines as students take core require-department, taught "Religion and Two tandem courses will be ments and try to choose their Imagination." ofered inthe fall. Both will be joint majors. Both teachers engaged the stu-English-philosophy sequences. 
With this in mind, several St. dents "in an examination of the Vacca and Clark will repeat their Mary's academic departments modes of thinking which character-Greek literature and philosophy have joined together in an attempt ize each discipline (the use of sequence, while a Twentieth Cen­to integrate the freshman experi-symbolic language and conscious, tury Literature-Contemporary Phil­ence as much as possible. purposeful storytelling). The clas-osophical Problems combination 
Such is the purpose of tandem ses were brought together in joint will be offered by Vacca and T. courses which are offered each fall session on a regular basis in order Steinbuch. a new professor in the for incoming freshmen. that the students could examine in philosophy department. 
Tandem courses require stu-conversation, questions significant ................... dents to be enrolled in two classes to both disciplines: narrative form • ...., ~O~ • which in theory support each other. and process, similarities in mythic • 
The courses are also meant to structure etc.". according to the ;\" r~C, ~ ~ 
qi . , •••:-.l

relieve the disjunctive experience course description. ~• ~ ~.._ q;+ ~ • of moving through five different Hooker explained that the value ~ ':J" •"j 
0 

"universes of discourse" every of tandem courses is that they "C ·~ ~ • day, said Linnea Vacca, assistant "give students a chance to use • ~~ ~ {~ ~~ professor of English and teacher of similar methods of approach in . 't,1-·~'-'q;OV ~OJA • several tandem courses. different disciplines." • ~ c.; ~\ .& 
"Freshmen are us.ually very Cathy Cowhey, a freshman en-q; ~~ ~ Y conventional. Their horizons need rolled in the Greek literature and • ~~ ~ • ~ • · to be expanded. They need an philosophy sequence last semester, .,~~V~~ ~"j • out-of-culture experience in order praised tt.e program, saying, "I • 1~ 'V • to see a connection between thought that putting the two close-j ",) • "them" and us," Vacca explained. ly-related subjects together really ••••••• 
Three different tandem sequen-r-----------------------------. ces were taught last fall. M -Ph 428 N M• h.-
Vacca tau!!ht Twentieth Centurv ar-Main armacy • IC lgan
Literature in conjunction with a · course called Twentieth Century "PARK NEXT TO MacDonalds" 
Mind taught by Ruth Chojnacki, instructor of Humanistic Studies. -------COUPON______ Vacca and Chojnacki attempted to coordinate their syllabuses as I GOOD NEWS 1 
much as possible so that, for instance, when the class was 1 1
$1 
discussing postwar perplexities in 1 DISPOSABLE RAZORS for a I
Chojnacki's course, they were rea­ding Elie Weisel's Night and 
I 1 75 Value I
1

Alexander Solzhenitsyn's One ay in _____..,..___________ 
the Life of Ivan Denisovitch 

in Plllr••,.,.,...P'IIIIP•••,.,.,..,..•••••,...............
Vacca's class. 

Likewise, when they were dis­cussing the emergence of the third world, they were reading Achebe's Things Fall Apart. 
Vacca also taught a tandem sequence on Greek literature and philosophy with Ann Clark, assis­tant professor of philosophy. 
Clark and Vacca very carefully interwove the two courses' reading and writing assignments. In fact, the two classes often discussed the same text, taking two different approaches. 
Between the two teachers, a,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~==:::
paper was !lSsigned every week. 1 The individual assignments were 
St. Ed's Hall Presents 
graded by the teacher who assi­gned them, but at the end of the semester the ·two jointly decided 


STICKS AND BONES
whether or not a student has 
April 29 & 30 and May 1 st 
*The Observer 
Night Editor: joe Bauer 


at 8pm in Washington Hall 
Asst. Night Editors: Leigh Tunakan & Steve Odland 

Tickets are 50' and available at the door
Layout Staff: Sandy Colson, Judith Byrnes 

or from a ca~t member. 
Editorial layout: Pat Hanifin ' Sports Layout: Bob Keen · Typists: Kathy Egbert, Mel; Celeste and various other unknowns such as Gwen Cole­man and Rusty Espinosa Night Controller: Morey Blinder Day Editor: Marian Ulicny Copy Reader: Chris Datzman, who is legally sane. Ad Layout: Pat Russell Photographer: Barbara Dodge Farewell, 0 wondrous camera 
woman 
The Observer is published Monday through Friday and weekly during the summer session, except during 


Blue -Gold Game Special 
the exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College Subscriptions 



DOUBLE 
may be purchased for $20 per year ($10 per semester) from The Obser­


BLOODY MARY'S 
ver, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 

75,
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction 

Open.. 9:00am
rights are reserved. 



~-~--·~~---~---..­
I _I~ursdJly, April 28, 1977 the observer 3 



Oil imports increase U.S. deficit 
WASHINGTON AP • A 22 per­cent increase in oil imports re­sulting from unusually cold winter pushed U.S. trade into a record monthly deficit of $2.4 billion in march, the government reported yesterdy. 
The trade deficit for the first three months of 1977 totaled $5.9 billion, which was greater than the entire 1976 deficit and close to the record yearly deficit of $6.4 billion in 1972. 
Courtnay Slater, chief Commerce Department economist, said the growing deficits are almost entirely the result of increasing oil imports from the oil-exporting nations. 
"Everybody recognizes the defi­cit is with OPEC countries ... Our trade with the rest of the world is in pretty healthy shape," she said. OPEC is the Organization of Petro­leum Exporting Countries, of which Saudi Arabia is the key member. 
The Carter administration saw the March trade report as addition­al ammunition for the energy program that the President pro­posed last week. "This under­scores the importance of energy conservation and the reducing of dependence on foreign oil," said Ms. Slater, who prefers that desig­nation. 
Total imports of all goods, in-eluding oil, were. vaued at just under $12.5 billion in March, while exports were nearly $10.1 billion, leaving a deficit in U.S. trade accounts of $2.4 billion. 
The nation had deficits of $1.8 billion in February and $1.7 billion in January, which were also month­ly records at the time. The entire deficit for all of 1976 was just under $5.9 billion. 
While Ms. Slater says she ex­pects substantial monthly deficits will continue for the remainder of this year, she added, "It is reasonable to expect some leveling . off" of oil imports now that spring is here. 
ND prof indicted for smuggling 
[continued from page 1] own counsel, confront his accusers and present witnesses in his own 
behalf. 
The committee would then pre­sent their findings to the Provost, who will make the final decision. A 
case  may  be  appealed  to  the  
University  President  within  10  
days.  

The Observer asked several members of the Academic Council if they had been approached by Burtchaell, and all of them replied negaitvely. One member, however added that he didn't expect the University to take any action against Plati until the issue was settled in the courts. Even then, it would remain to be seen what 
This Friday, the Notre Dame-St. Mary's Theatre will present Fid­dler on the Roof, one of the world's most critically acclaimed musicals. All performances · April 29, 30, May 5, 6, and 7 -will be given in O'Laughlin Auditorium on the St. Mary's campus. Curtain is at 8 pm and tickets may be obtained by calling 284-4176. 
Fiddler on the Roof is the most successful musical in history. The libretto by Joseph Stein, based on the stories of Sholom Aleichem. and the music and lyrics of Sheldon Harnick and Jerry Bock combined to give Fiddler the longest continu­ous run on Broadway ever (1964­1971). as well as record runs in productions in over 20 foreign countries. There is a unique blend of comedy and pathos in Fiddler that is greatly the result of the rich characters of the Russian shtetls created by Sholom Aleichem and brought to life so vividly in his stories. 
Dr. Reginald Bain, director of the production. has emphasized the part of Sh:>lom Aleichem in the creation of Joseph Stein's libretto, and given a storytelling motif to the production. Bain sees the play as a lively celebration of the Jewish 
I 

Pitt Club rents luggage truck 
would happen; Plati might just resign and decide the issue before it ever came to us," he said. 
Plati and Bernardi will be tried by Assistant U.S. Attorney John L. Sullivan. According to Sullivan the arraignment next week will "probably set a date for the status report. Knowing the judge, the trial itself might be as early as June or July. It will most probably be sometime this summer." 
The two men could also be indicted in the Western District of Michigan, since several foreign cars were stored there. "It would be unlikely that they would try the case too," said Sullivan. "Gener­ally we take the best shot and we 

ND-SMC Theater airs Fiddler on the Roof 
people. 
Senior theater major Daniel Daily plays the role of Tevye, the dairyman who addresses God re­spectfully but urgently whenever he thinks the Lord's blessings are getting too hard to bear. Daily last appeard as Clarence Darrow in the ND-SMC Second Scene production of Clarence Darrow . A One-Man Play last month. Junior Lisa Colaluca, last seen as Camille in Camille and Perdican, another Second Scene production, plays Golde, Tevye's implacable wife. 
Shevawn O'Connor protrays the matchmaker whose aid Tevye's three elder daughten hoping to find husbands, beseech in one of the show's finest song. Maura Mur­rihy, Joan Martel, and Mary Oli­phant appear as the daughters, with Gary Aumiller, Sean Coleman, Michael King, and John Walker as the four suitors.
.-------..
NEED LOW -COST 
I

I I 
I 
TRANSPORTATION? We can help. 
Contact: 
I

I Auto Driveaway Co. ~ 674-9786 
I

1 Deposit Required · Returned at Destination I
.________
I --Mustbe21.-· ... 
usually only prosecute a guy once, even if the crime occured in several jurisdictions." 
Sullivan also said that he has not been in touch with the Grand Rapids attorney office, "I really don't know anything that they are doing," he said. 
However, the U.S. Attorney's office in Grand Rapids, which is responsible for the Kalamazoo area, does not have a file on Plati. 
Plati's alledged operation was· first discovered by the U.S. Cus­toms Office when one of its undercover agent answered a Jan. 20 Chicago newspaper ad in which a Mercedes-Benz was offered for sale. When he answered the ad, the agent was referred to a South Bend telephone number. 
A customs official said that on Jan. 21, several agents came to South Bend, where they were shown a foreign car. The same day, the agents were taken to Kalama­zoo by the two where they were shown eight other stored cars. 
The indictment alledges that Plati and Bernardi transported or caused to be transported three cars on Jan. 22, to a Chicago garage. 
Plati, in Bernardi's presence, alledgedly offered to sell the three cars to the undercover agents, including one posing as a mechanic to examine the cars, the indictment · all edges. 
The indictment accuses Bernardi of shipping the foreign cars to the United States from Italy and with· filing false entry forms for the cars. ; The false information included owner's name and address, value. 
. ofthe vehicle, year of manufacture, make and body style, conformance with air pollution regulations and vehicle safety standards and reason for im ortation. 
Friday Beer Sale 4-7 pm 
PITCHERS 77~ DRAFTS 25~ 

FAT WALLY'S 
The Pitt Club will sponsor a......._ luggage truck for members and~ residents of th.e Pittsburgh area for* 
We're looking for a few good college men who 
summer vacatwn. * 
will make good Marine officers. The truck will load Saturday, 
It's a test of body, brain and spirit: If you've
May 14, from 6:30pm-7:30pm 
got it, prove it. If you want it, work for it. If you
Stepan Center and Sunday, May 15, from 10:30 am-11:30 am at the think you're a leader, show us. ~ Bookstore parking lot. Loading at That's our challenge. The only promise we 
St. Mary's will begin on Sunday, at 
make is that you'll be running in good company.
the Holy Cross circle from 1:15 pnf-1:30pm and the LeMans/Regi­na parking lot from 1:30 pm-2:30 pm. 
The Marines if;
Prices will vary according to the articles and must be paid in full at the loading. No refunds will be ON CAMPUS TODAY given. Luggage will be unloaded in Pittsburgh on Wednesday, May 
18. For turther infurmation. con·JI~~~~~~,~~Ir~"~~~~~~~..,~~r~lr-~~~~~.Lr~~.~~ 




TheTest 
Both imports and exports were up in March. Exports for the year were running at an annual rate of $117.9 billion, about 3 percent above last year, while imports were at an annual rate of$14.6 billibn, 17 percent above the 1976 total. 
At that rate, the nation would 
end 1977 with a whopping deficit of 
$23.7 billion. 
The Commerce Department said total imports of petroleum and petroleum products during March were valued at just under $4.1 billion, up from slightly more than $3.3 billion in February. The trade figures were adjusted for seasonal variations. 
Total petroleum imports during the first three months amounted to 
840 million barrels valued at nearly $11 billion. At the same time last year, imports were 619 million barrels valued at $7.4 billion. 
For all of 1976, petroleum im­ports were 2.6 billion barrels valued at $32.2 billion. 
Meanwhile, the government had encouraging news for the economy in a report that showed productivity of American workers rose at the fastest rate in the year during the first three months of 1977. 
An increase in productivity re­duces price pressure since it means workers are producing more goods without an increase in labor costs. 
The Labor Department said pro­ductivity rose at 3.2 percent annual rate from January through March. 

Pianist 

Robert Hamilton 
llet~s 

8:30pm Saturday, April 30 Mishawaka Hi~h School Auditori STUDENT TICKETS AVAILABLE Call 272-3117 
SHOW TIME Thur-Fri-6 :45-9:15 Sat-Sun-1 :45-4:15 6:45-9:25 PM 

roa us... lusty entertainment." 
-Bob Thomas. ASSOCIATED PRESS 
PAUL NEWMAN 



SI.IIPINSHOT 
\,O.CI(s,

fat wa\11'5 

Just past LIQUOR ' OPEN FRI. &SAT. -OR\.0 TILL MIDNIGHT Solllh B•d Awe. 277.a11 


$2.69 $2.89 
12 Pack 12 Pack Bottles Falstaff/Blatz HAMMS $2.60 $3.09 
12 Pack 12 Pack Rhinelander Old Style 
Misc. Case Beer $385 
Case of Strohs 16oz returnables$6.87 

$3.29 

Vodak $3.99 qt 12 Pack MIL(ER Gin $3.99qt. 
Rum $4.98 qt


$1.79 

16oz 6 Pack SC'f'\~t.:h $5.39qt BUSCH 
hiladelphia Whiskey· $4.89qt 
$385
CIGARETTES carton 
.~act Mike Sheehan, 1694. ~~~~~i!iii~~~-~~~iiiiii!iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~ 
::;:"iiiiiiiiiiiiil 
.•t-.C"f' .. , .· .-:·--:ow,•,•.• .. , . ,•,•,-••..-... , .. , ... _,.,.:o.--...-_,.,.,.,..... •r;_.• _,_,.... -.•.~ ..-."'_("_,••!r~•,•t~' _; .i;~,~·-··-~:-·-!~"'-! 'i~ •.-=,.,-, ..~.·•1 •'tfl,..:itti'..; ' 

---------~~~--------­
*The Observer 
.:m independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's 
The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College It does not necessarily reflect the policies of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as rossible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters are the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and letters are encouraged to promote the free expression of varying opinions on campus. 
BoxQBusiness Manager Sue Quigley Notre Dame

Advertising Manager Steve Bonomo Production Manager Karen Chiames Ind. 46556 
Thursday, April 28, 1977 




Save Cinema Series 
There is a concerted effort being made within the Student Union to severely Ijmit, if not completely eliminate, the cultural film series that has until recently been a unit oi the Cultural Arts Commissioner. Perhaps more than any single act yet. performed by the newly-appointed Student Union Director, this particular proposal smacks of" the same autocracy and insen­sitivity that many feared when Tom Gryp was appointed in the midst of controvery. 
Opponents of the Cinema Series point to the program's deficiencies in the areas of finance and attendance in recent sem­esters. But they conveniently ignore the tremendous success of this semester's Cinema 77 schedule. This most recent success is important not only in that it marked a rare moneymaking schedule for the program, but also because it proved most forcefully the interest and enthusi-­asm that can be generated by artistic film within the University community. If you saw "2001," 'A Clockwork Orange," "Taxi Driver" or "Singin' In The Rain," to name but a few, you saw a Cinema · Series presentation. Cinema 77 Director Sean Colemna demonstrated that it is very possible to reconcile the imperative to art with the financial obligation that any program necessarily labors under. The people dedicated to promoting film as an art form have finally been able to struggle to their feet. To pull the rug from beneath 
them now would be to subvert the ostensible intentions of Gryp's admini­startion: service to the students. Rather, it 
!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~~P . 0 . B0 X Q!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
and prejudice are generally absent here" and, I must confess, I am
Commends 

troubled by the thought that any­one would desire to be so delicious­ly deceived. However, I do indeed 

Hesburgh 

share the ideal of "making Notre Dear Editor: Dame a very special kind of 
As a semor member of the Black community where all belong equal-community at Notre Dame, I would ly". To this end, I pledge whatever like to acknowledge personally and personal help I can give and I invite 
to commend the President on his all who desire it to a dialogue in the 
letter to the Notre Dame Faculty, interest of truth and justice. 
Administrators and students in the Dialogue is the handmaid of 
April 16 issue ofThe Observer. truth and I agree that conversa-
I hail this open condemnation of tion between the races should be racial discrimination and prejudice more open and frequent. Justice, as a most praiseworthy act, guided on the other hand requires power ­by prudent wisdom crowned with of this I have very little. I shall try, Christian Jove. I have long however, to exercise what I have regarded such discrimination and over myself in an effort to become a prejudice as a double-edged sword truly just person. I feel that if for the excision of the very soul of everyone in the Notre Dame com­man. Those who wield it, by acts of munity • whatever his race or commission or omission, are spiri-religion would make suc_h a com­tually destroyed by it and seem to mitment, there would be less be comforted only by seeing them-disparity between the ideal we seek selves reflected in others like them. and the existing reality. 
God no longer rules the world that May our Lady bless you always. they create for themselves, but William Richardson rather small groups who serve their Professor of Modem Lan!{uages interests. Those who are victimi­
f d zed by discrimination and prejudice De en s are condemned. to wander in con­stant search for themselves, ( h I d • through a labyrinth of distorted eer ea ers­
images. ' Dear Editor: 
I think that racism in any form, overt or covert, is truly an unholy We feel, i~ light of the questions thing. I do not share the belief that 1 ~at have ansen about cheerlead­"ugly realities like overt racism , _mg tryouts and the rumors of tryout 
would be an unconscionable disservice. 
In talking with the people in the Student Union who are ultimately responsible for the decision, one can only wonder what the true rationale for the elimination of the Series is. Gryp thought that by eliminating the series he would be opening weekend dates for club films. But the Cinema Series does not show films on the weekends. likewise, the newly-appointed Cinema Services Commissioner, Bonnie Bona, expressed the opinion that none of the Cinema 77 films were, in her words, "cultural." 
There was a time wher1 film was an important part of the University commu­nity. Notre Dame witnessed world premiers and published its own film journal. There were many people singularly dedicated to promulgation of the cmema arts. There still are such dedicated people left, but they are hardly a loud esoteric minority. As they cling tightly to the last vestige of what was once an important tradition, they deserve much more than the obscure and elusive excuses that have been offered for the elimination of the program. 
In the end, there is no legitimate reason for the dissolution of what would be Cinema 78. If Tom Gryp and the Student Union decide to cancel the series, they will be fulfilling the fears of those originally opposed to their appointments. If they retain the series, they will be demonstra­ting a fairness and wisdom that will go far in silencing the critics. In any event, the ball is in their court. 
EDITORIAL BOARD 

Marti Hogan Editor-in-Chief Martha Fanning Managing Editor Bob Brink Asst. Managing Ed. Kathy Mills Executive Editor Maureen Flynn Editorial Editor Barb Breitenstein Exec. News Editor 
Tom Byrne Campus Editor Jean Powley St. Mary's Editor Katie Kerwin News Editor Paul Stevenson Sports Editor Pat Cole Special Projects Ed. David O'Keefe Features Editor 
Copy Editor Barb Langhenry 
Photo Editor Paul Clevenger 
violations, that we should set the 
record straight as to what exactly 
did take place during the cheer­
leading tryout process this year. 
Prior to the week of tryouts an article was published in The Obser­ver inviting anyone interested to stop by Student Activities, pick up the list of proposed regulations by which tryouts would be run, an"d make any comments or suggestions about the tryout procedure. Thurs­day night, March 24, a preliminary meeting was held in Lafortune ballroom to inform all interested participants about the tryout pro­cedure. At that time a list of dates and times for each clinic and tryout session was passed out, a list of all requirements and point value for each tryout session was given and the final publicized list of tryout regulations (as approved by Br. John Benesh, Student Activitits Director) was read. 

That meeting was followed up by an Observer article informing the Notre Dame-St. Mary's students about the mandatory first clinic Sunday, March 27th. So on March 27th, the first clinic was held, Monday, March 28th, a review session, Wednesday, March 30th, the first cut for girls, Thursday, March 31st, the second clinic, Friday, April 1st, the personal interviews for finalists, and finally, during the final cut, Saturday, April 2nd, _the process wound up "'lith· the selection of the five guys 
-' 

DOONESBURY by Garry Trt.K1eau 




It's Our Oil 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii--.--ort buchwald 
Washington--The argument that President Carter gives for energy conservation is that if we keep using up the petroleum reserves we have now there won't be any left for our children. 
It's probably strong logic with many people, but Clemstone, my gas-guzzling friend, isn't buying it. 
"Let the kids find their own oil." 
he said after the  President's  ad­ 
dress on television.  
"How can you say that?"  
"We found it, didn't we?  We  

dug in the ground and we brought 
the stuff up with our own hands. 

Why should we give the kids our oil 
on a silver platter?" 

"We have to think of future generations who may suffer because of our waste and abuse." 
"Why?" Clemstone asked me. 

"Because," I said weakly. "Look, do you think they'll appre­cite the oil and gas if we just leave it to them? I know kids. The only things that have any meaning for them are those they worked for themselves. What we should say to them is, 'We're using up whatever petroleum we've found in the ground. You want some for your _ selves, go out and find it.' That's the kind of challenge that will grab them." 
"But you can't use up all of our reserves in one generation." 
"Sure we can. It's our oil and gas. Why should we freeze so some rotten kids can have gas to tool around in their cars 20 years from today?" 
"There's something wrong with your argument," I told Clem­stone, ''but I can't put my finger on 
it.•• ''There is nothing wrong with it. Each generation should fend for itself. Do you think we'd be where we are today if we depended on handouts of oil from our parents? No sir, we worked to get that petroleum. We drilled holes in Texas and Oklahoma. We sweated I· 
and five girls making up the '77-'78 
squad. All judges were from out­
side the Notre Dame-St. Mary's 
community and were experienced 
dance instructors, gymnastics 
coaches, pom-pom instructors and 
cheerleading sponsors. 

We're happy that all of our efforts to run a fair and unbiased tryout procedure resulted in selec­tion of some very talented indivi­duals, to act as Notre Dame cheerleaders for the '77-'78 season, from the field of talented people . who tried out. The whole caliber of tryouts was raised this year due to the ideas that so many interested 
for it in the Gulf of Mexico and 
froze our tails off on the northern 
slopes of Alaska. We kissed the 
feet of desert sheiks to get our oil. 
And, by heaven, when we got it we 
appreciated it. 

"Now Carter wants us to say. 
'Here, kiddies. We won't usc up 
the oil so you can have it. Well, I 
say 'bulldozer!' You can give them 
your oil reserves if you want, but 
J' m not giving them mine." 

"You make a strong argument 
against conservation," I told my 
friend, "but you forget one thing. 
You can't take it ·--·ith you." 

''I'm not takin~; it w-ith me," he yelled. ''I'm going to use it up right here, today, tomorrow, next week, next year. When I go there won't be a quart of the stuff left." 
"What will your kids think of you? What will they say about a father who doesn't leave his kids a quart of oil after he's gone to that big Exxon station in the sky?" 
"They'll bless me. They will eventually say, 'Thanks, Dad, for not making it easy on us. Thanks for having the faith in us so we could find our own Alaskan slope. You found your oil and we found ours, and our kids can find their 
own.'" 

''I'm not sure that was the message the President was· trying to get over to the American people," I said. 
"Of course, it wasn't," Clem­
stone said. "But he doesn't have the confidence in the next genera­tion that I do. He doesn't think they have the moral fiber and the pioner spirit to go out and drill for their own fuel." 
"But suppose it's true that there aren't any more reserves of gas and oil left?" 
"If my son came to me and said, 'Dad, I can't find any oil," do you know what I'd do? I'd hand him a shovel and say, 'Okay, go out and dig for coal."' 
individuals gave to Student Activi­ties prior to tryouts. And now that the work of tryouts is over we're proud that all the final rules and regulations, tryout dates and point scales were followed to the letter. 
Thanks to all who helped us with their input, to all who gave their time and enthusiasm by trying out and for the support and enthusiasm given by friends and spectators. rt's that unity of spirit that the cheerleaders hope to play a big part in next year. 
Sue Olin and Pat Bergin [co-captains '77·'78 squad] 
~--~---~~-~-------------------~----~~~---~--------~~--~._----------------~~~--------~------~1 
I 
I 
I 
Thursday, April 28, 1977 the observer 5 ~ 





COUP building plans revealed 
by Marti Hogan Editor-in-Chief 

Editor's note: This is the last in a series of articles explaining the recommendations of the COUP report and their relation to Tbe Campaign for Notre Dame. 
Notre Dame is a university of great tradition, and much of this tradition is reflected in the older buildings and residence halls on campus. The need exists, howev­er, to renovate several of the buildings as well as to construct new ones. To maintain the tradition Notre Dame is famous for, the Campaign for Notre Dame is seeking $29.3 million to upgrade the physical facilities on campus. 
In 1979 Notre Dame's greatest landmark, the Administration buil­ding. will be 100 years old. Preliminary architectural studies found that· the main building is soundly constructed. Its interior space, however, has remained basically unchanged since it was first built. It is not suitable now for contemporary university adminis­trative offices. 
Possible plans show that the four floors of the building could be transformed into a seven or eight­Hoor structure without altering its exterior appearance. The renova­tions would include new plumbing and wiring as well as elevators to replace the wooden stairs. 
The projected cost of completely renovating the interior of the Administration building is $5 milli­on. 
According to the COUP report, the residential character of Notre Dame is of great importance, and every possible means for enhan­cing this character should be sought. In response, a . new undergraduate residence hall will be constructed in the near future. Through the campaign, a donor has alreadybeenfound for a new dorm, which will cost approximately $4 million. Thedonor has not yet been announced. 
Architectural studies will deter­mine the location of the new hall as it may or may not be a high-rise. Depending on the structure, it will be located near Grace and Flanner Halls or next to the lake near Lyons 
Hall. It has  not  been  decided  
whether  it  will  be  for  men  or  
women.  

The existing residence halls. with the exception of Badin and Walsh Halls , have 
~undergone minor-or no renovation.lWhile the needs of each hall will 
! 
vary, the general renovation will have been situated in the basement 
involve plumbing and electrical of the Memorial Library. In the 
work, new fixtures and plastering future, however, these offices must 
and painting. be vacated to accomodate the 
The recent concern over the lack anticipated growth of the library's 
of "social space" in the residence book collection. 
halls has prompted the University Ideally, classrooms and faculty 
to accomodate the halls with addi­offices should be situated near each 
tions or relocations to free existing other to encourage student-faculty 
space. The cost of the residence contact before and after class. The 
halls renovation is estimated at $5 University hopes the construction 
million. of such a building will help reach 
The need for additional graduate this ideal. 
students housing is also a concern The Chemical Research depart-of the University. In 1976 Notre ment and the College of Engineer-Dame built 36 townhouses, each ing will receive additional space. accommodating four women, at the The University plans to build a new northeast edge of campus on Bulla Chemical Research Building bet-Road. ween the Memorial Library and the The University believes that Radiation Research Building. provisions must now be made for a Architectural planning is well on its substantial number of male gradu­way for the four-story, 90,000 ate students who prefer to live on square foot structure to provide campus. Another residence hall or research laboratories for the depar­housing complex is planned for the tment's faculty members, profes­same area as the townhouses. It is sional research staffers, post-likely that the North Dining Hall doctoral investigaters and graduate will be expanded to accomodate and undergraduate students. The graduate students as well as inc­cost of the building is projected at 
reased numbers of undergraduate $4 million. 
students. The projected cost of the. In 1976 the University began the 
graduate housing facilities is $2 first phase of a comprehensive 
million. engineering development program 
conceivably costing as much as $10 
Academic buildings million. However, the upgrading 
of Cushing Hall is only the first 
A new classroom-faculty office step. The Campaign for Notre 
building, to be erected on the west Dame has earmarked an additional 
side ot \~e library mall, will allow' $2 million for a second phase of 
stude!hs greater accessibility to the engineering development. 
faculty and also increases the The University also plans to 
number of classrooms on campus. build an addition to the Art Gallery 
While Notre Dame's faculty which will be used to display the 
numbers more than 700, there are permanent collection; 98 percent of 
only 480 faculty offices. As a which is now stored in 
result, many professors share of­fices which are often crowded and inadequate for research, class pre­
INDIANA MOTOR 

paration and student counseling. Since 1964, 250 faculty offices 

BUS TOURS 

Robertson speaks on human rights 
[continued from page 1] individuals, organizations, and governments labored so constantly 
to secure the universal and effec­tive recognition and observance of human rights throughout the world We go where you say! 

as at the present time. That is the basis of our hope for the future,'' Have more fun with us he concluded. 
on aCHARTER BUS

A distinguishetl diplomat and human rights scholar well known in 
. e MORE FUN FOR

Europe, Robertson was associated 
YOUR GROUP

with tht1,Council or Europe from 1950 to 1973, when he became 
e ARRANGE YOUR

professor of law at the University of 
DEPARTURE AND

Paris. His career began in 1939 
RETURN TO SUIT

and also included service with the 
YOUR CONVENIENCE

British government and the U.N. Fr. James Burtchaell, University provost, introduced Robertson. 
• 234-2196! 

vaults. Besides exhibition space, the new wing will provide seminar rooms and study rooms. The cost of the art gallery addition is estimated at $2 million. 
Apart from the construction or renovation of individual buildings, Notre Dame needs funds to main­tain and enhance the campus and to underwrite expansion and imp­rovement of its facilities system. 
Money will be alocated to main­tain the miles of roads and side­walks on campus. In the future, Juniper Road will have to be relocated at the University's ex­pense to provide for campus growth. 
Lighting will also be improved for security reasons since one out of five undergraduates is female. The estimated cost of the general campus improvements is S3 mil­lion. 
The two first and largest compo­nents of the Campaign for Notre ' Dame seek funds to endow pro­
grams and activities or to finance building construction or renova­tion. But the University also needs unrestricted funds to support cur­rent operations and to assure a balanced operating budget. Such funds would also be used to deal 

, with unanticipated needs or prob­lems or to take advantage of . unexpected opportunities. 
For these and other purposes, the Campaign for Notre Dame seeks $8.7 million in unrestricted capital gifts to be expended over a five year period. 
The COUP recommendations and the campaign components have been reviewed in detail by Notre Dame's trustees, advisory council, and alumni board mem­. ers and administration. All 
1volved agree that the University 
nust continue with the Campaign tor Notre Dame to utilize its full potential or in Rev. Theodore Hesburgh's words, "to pursue the hooe." 




OJ&.40 STORES,,.,
-#-· ~\\te{ ~snc. ~\w.45 
9 P.Al• htDNt~T 
*SPECIAL NOTICE* 
Notre Dame & St. Mary's 
STUDENTS 
A FREE "SHUTTLE SERVICE" WILL BE PROVIDED 
BY  THE  100 CENTER  IN  ITS  NEW  ENGUSH  
"DOUBLE DECKER''  BUS  FROM  LONDON,  ENG­ 
LAND.  



now accepting applications for positions of:
sleep 
SOCIAL COMMISSIONER 
JUDICIAL COMMISSIONER
cheap! 
CO-EX COMMISSIONER 
Elkhart 1-80-90 at S.R. 19 (219) 262-3691 SPORTS COMMISSIONER 
Spotless housekeeping, quiet construction, SECRETARY TO AC-ADEMIC COUNCIL ­X-Iong double beds, wall-to-wall shag carpeting, Color T1l, direct dial telephone.-full ba~h. at-your­door parking, individually controlled heating and 
Submit resumes & applications to:
air conditioning. 

P.0. Box 1007 LM 
Single $10.95-$11.95/Double $13.95-$15.95 
St.. Mary's College 
QUESTION$??? Gall· Mary 4709 .,.., ­
•.J
•.!•• . ., l '"\ \ •• '-' 
St. Mary's Student Govt. 
I 
6 ~he ()L•S e r ~ 8(~--_ Thursday, April 28, 1977 
~ 
Elderly: what does the Church do? 
by Katie Kerwin 

News Editor Editor's note: This article Is the second In a ftve-part series dealing with aging and the Church's mini­stry to the elderly. Today's article considers the role the Church bas assumed In recognizing and protec­ting the rights and dignity of the &Red. 
"The elderly do not forfeit their claim to basic human rights be­cause they are ·old. But a brief look at the plight of many elderly people shows that they are in fact being denied those rights," declared the Catholic Bishops of the United States in a statement issued May, 1976. 
"The reconciliation we seek be­gins with recognition of our respon­sibilities to the elderly to insure their dignity and worth so that they can enjoy their God-given rights," the bishops' statement continued. 
The bishops called for a reconcil­iation between society and the elderly who are isolated "physi­
Can8V8n attacks movie plans 
continued from page 1] for a separate film commission under which Cinema 78 would operate. "Bona," Canavan said, "has already told us that she won't show any foreign films." Canavan also attacked Bona's plan to charge clubs who want to show movies a $45 "collector's" fee in order to pay Student Union personnel to take money at the door. "She doesn't trust the clubs," he said. Originally, Car­avan contended, a volunteer from the Cinema series would assist club members at no cost. Cinema 77 will show a total of 11 films this year. Among those already presented were "Taxi Driv­er," "Singing in the Rain," "Beauty and the Beast," and a four movie Stanley Kubrick festival including "2001, A Space Odys­sey," "Dr. Strangelove," and "A Clbckwork 'Orange.'' 
Kemp awarded 
Danforth grant 
by Patty Thorn 
Janice Kemp, a biology instruc­

tor at Saint Mary's, was recently twarded a Danforth Graduate Fel­.owship. The fellowship, given by the Danforth Foundation of St. Louis, Missouri, is for advanced study towards a doctorate degree. Kemp plans to work for her Ph.D. in zoology, with an emphasis in ecology, at Miami University, Ohio, beginning this fall. 
Each year, 100 fellowships are awarded nationally _to persons exhibiting intellectual ability, aca­demic achievement, effective teaching and constructive student relationships. These fellowships ;;over the cost of up to four years of study, including tuition, fees and living expenses. 
There were approximately 3,000 1pplicants for this year's fellow­>hips. Kemp stated that since ''virtually everyone who has a ~hance to complete an application would be qualified for it," she was naturally surprised to receive the 1ward. 
Kemp received her B.A: and 

M.A. degrees in biology from Drake University in Iowa. She did ~raduate work at several Midwes­(ern universities and taught at Drake, Woodland School in Illinois :md Manchester College in Indi­lna. In 1975, she joined the faculty 1t St. Mary's. 
Grotto Mass 
The University Chaplain, Fr. 

cally, culturally, psychologically and spiritually" from it. 
Their statement affirmed the right of the elderly to life in both a medical and psychological sense, to decent income, to jobs, to adequate health care, to proper nutrition, to decent housing and to equal treat­ment. 
A change in personal attitude was a basic step advocated by the Catholic bishops. They stressed also the "critical role of the fmaily · in caring for their aging loved ones and keeping them in their midst as valuable, contributing members. In cases where institutionalization is necessary, continued family con­cern and attention are important, they stated. 
As a community, the Church must "locate the 'hidden elderly' in order to bring them into parish and community life and help them obtain community and government services to which they may be entitled but which they do not receive," the bishops continued. 
The parish structure offers opportunities for leadership in helping the elderly the statement said, including: community dining rooms, "day care," home visits and telephone reassurance ser­vices; car pools and other transpor­tation aids; recreation; and contin­uing education programs. 
More coordination of services and outreach in diocesan as well as local programs was cited as an important need by the bishops. They pinpointed low-cost housing, transportation and job training as areas of special need and oppor­tunity, and encouraged "wider participation in low income housing programs" by diocesan and reli­gious orders. 
The bishops also indicated that "the Church at all levels has a responsibility to seek out the elderly for their input into policy decisions and provide them with i 
opportunities for meaningful work, 
both as employees and volun­
teers.'' 
Their statement favored better 

provisions for the retirement of 
religious, adequate pension plans 
for all Church employees and 
education for all age groups about 
aging. It also noted the special 
responsibility of Catholic hospitals 
and health care institutions and 
social service agencies to meet the 
needs of the aged. 
The bishops stressed the role of 

the Church as a voice in civil . society. "We must raise our voices clearly and effectively as advocates for the elderly on public policy matters." 
National policy guaranteeing full employment, a decent income for ·those unable to work, equitable tax legislation and comprehensive health care for all are required to meet many of the needs of the ·elderly, according to the Catholci , bishops. But they listed a number ,of "significant steps"which can be 
taken in the interim: 
• 
Continued opposition to euthan­asia and "death with dignity" legislation which gives undue power to the state or to physicians. 

• 
A thorough review of the Social Security system to insure its contin­ued stability. 

• 
Continued opposition to cutbacks or ceilings on the Social Security cost-of-living index for the elderly which reflects actual increases in their living expenses. 

• 
Reform of Medicare to provide coverage for preventive care, den­tal care, prescription drugs, de­vices such as eyeglasses and hearing aids and increased and more readily available home health care services to allow the elderly to avoid unnecessary institutionali­zation. 

• 
Establishment of stricter stan­dards for nursing homes and stricter enforcement of those stan­


~----~ 
Your Source for the Unusual in Diamonds and Precious Gems Platinum and Gold Jewelry 
You'll find untold treasures of the finest quality brought to you by the eye of an expert.* And sold with the care of a professional.* 
Insurance appraisals and purchases of fine diamonds and estate jewelry provided. 
*Graduate Gemologist: Gemological Institute of America *Fellow Gemmologist: Gemmological Association of Great Britain *BA: Indiana University 
Lobby St. Joseph Bank Building South Bend, Indiana Telephone: 287-1427 
John M. Marshall's 
COtamond 9mpont Company 
• -
Your Source for the Unusua' 
..... ,.,..
-
dards. 

• 
Opposition to Food Stamp pro-­gram changes which would penal­ize the elderly. 

• 
Expand nutrition, education, job training and recreational programs for the elderly. 

• 
More low-income housing for the elderly. Continued congressional expansion and administrative back­ing of the Section 202 program was strongly endorsed and setting of the lowest possible rate for interest on Section 202 loans was urged. 

•Continued 
reform of the pension system and wider availablity of pensions. 

• 
A higher priority for mental health care for the elderly. 

• 
An end to discrimination in hiring and flexibility in setting retirement ages. 

• 
Special attention to programs to reduce crime against the elderly. 



The Catholic bishops' statement recognized that "healing the rup­ture between society and its elderly members requires a major effort to change attitudes as well as social structures." They called for "a rethinking of personal attitudes in the light of gospel values" to restore to the elderly ''the dignity and sense of worth which they deserve." 
Tomorrow's article will look at some of the services offered by the Church to meet the material and physical needs of the elderly, in keeping with this commitment. 
FRIDAY-/: 1!>-Y :30 
SAT-SUN 2 :00-4:30-7 :15-9 :45 
need posters in a hurry? 
. 
I 
•nsty-pr1nls~ 
the wiz of the printingbiz! _1 00 -11· x,17 posters Only $10.00­
203 N. Main 
SoBend 289-6977 
Uhe WinJjammer 
CREATIVE HAIR DESIGN FOR THE SEXES 
RElAXING ATMOSPHERE 
FREE HAm ANALYSIS RK RETAH. CENTER 
1637 LWW So. Bend 232-6622 
, Appt_ only_ 

AND NOW THERE ARE 5 PLITT THEATRES IN MICHIANA 
Black Sunday 
2s~~~~~LM~ri~~~~\ 

Robert Griffin will celebrate a mass 
SHOW FRI-SA T 

1t the Grotto on Monday, May 2. 
"ROCKY HORROR

The mass will be said to commem­
PICTURE SHOW"

merate/ the beginning of May, the month of Our Ladyi The Glee Club Rated R will perform and ali members of the ,tlniversity are invited.
··-· .-..·.·~·... . .......... • . .,. .: •;; ~ Fi <fo".t .• 
Thursday, April 28, 1977 the observer 7_ 
Democrats reject tax cuts 
by Edmond I.e Breton reform proposals in the future. 
Associated Press Writer "It was a mistake to first offer the $50 rebates and then withdraw WASHINGTON AP • Backing them and offer nothing in their President Carter, Senate Demo­place," said Senate Republican crats defeated two Republican ef­Leader Howard H. Baker Jr. of forts yesterday to immediately cut Tennessee. "It left us with no 
federal income taxes. . alternatives but the Republican The Senate rejected, 58-39, a initiative." GOP proposal that would have cut But Chairman Russell B. Long rates on taxable incomes up to of the Finance Committee said tnat $20,000, with most relief going to even if the Senate were to agree to taxpayers in middle-and lower­call the Republican efforts, the income brackets. House would never accept them. The Senate then defeated, 62-32 Long, D-La., said that in any case a second Republican proposal for a they would be vetoed "and there is flat 10 percent cut in all individual not a chance on earth that this veto income tax rates. could be over-ridden." In their arguments for tax cuts, However, Carter's policy suf­Senate Republicans hit hard at the fered a potential setback when the themes that Carter's stimulus Senate Budget Committee, package now contains little for working on the fiScal plan for the what they called the overburdened present year, left room that could middle-income taxpayer and that be used for a Republican-style tax high taxation is dampening busi­cut. ness confidence needed for job­As originally adopted, the 1977 creating investments. budget resolution provided for the 
Democrats responded that the $50 tax rebates and other payments stimulus bill is not the proper to most Americans that Carter had vehicle for major permanent tax proposed. After the President 
changes and that the Republican withdrew the proposal, citing an proposals have no chance of be­improving economy, his economic coming law. Carter has said he spokesmen began urging Congress would veto any· tax cut now and, to "close the hole" left by the end instead, has urged that considera-of the rebate plan so there would be tion of tax reduction await his tax less temptation to use the leeway fr 
Classified Ads 
NOTICES 

NEED TYPING? Executary, Inc. Professional Typing Service. 10 ty­pists -various typestyles. Term papers: $.85 page Resumes: $2.00 page. Call 232-0898. 
Water safety instructors current certification summer church camp positions. Equal opportunity em­ployer. Send resume attn: Pat, 333 
W. Colfax, South Bend, lnd. 46601. 
ENGINEERING OPENINGS. M·ajor client has needs for all degrees. Ne.w graduates or experienced. All fee paid positions for immediate re­sponse. Send resume or call toll free from South Bend. Karl Swank Management Services, 1554 W. Franklin St., Elkhart, Ind. 46514, ph·. 67 4-5022. 
St. Ed's Hall Presents: Sticks and Bones April 29 & 30 and May 1st at 8 p.m. in Washington Hall. Tickets are $.50 and available at the door or from a cast member. 
Typing -neatly and accurately. 233-0166 after 5 or weekends. 
Let John Alden Messages do it! Don't like a bad habit or someone you work with? Want to break off a committment? Want to phone your family that you're alive & well? Or tell your mother-in-law that you two are going on a vacation alone this year? 9-1 Mon. thru Sat. Proxy phone calls $5.00 287-7566. 
AI L.Dwenstein tonight, 8':00 p.m. CCE Auditorium. Speaking on Hu­man Rights and fielding questions. 
Cooper's Summer Storage. Pick-up and delivery at dorm. Call Mrs. Cooper at 272.-3004. 
Niles Auction. 802 Fort St. 684-6954 or 684-4671. Auction every Friday 
7 :30. We buy and sell fumiture, appliances, antiques, and misc. items daily 12:00 p.m. to 6 p.m. 
Accurate, fast typing. Mrs. Donoho. 232-0746. Hours: 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. 
AI L.Dwenstein is coming to campus this Thursday, 8:00 p.m. at the CCE. Speaking on Human Rights and fielding questions. 
L.Dgan Volunteers: Spring Dance! Wednesday, April 27, 7:30-10:00 
p.m. in the L.Dgan Cafeteria. Every­one welcomed!! Any questions call Art Koebel 8696 or Jeanne Conboy 4347 (284 ). 
Greyhound bus to Chicago. Leaves Main Circle every Friday at 4:45. Call Tom at 8338 for seat reserva­tions. 
Try something different this sum­mer. Summer work-management program, see the selection team at LaFortune Student Center. Today 9 
a.m. to 4 p.m. 
Graduating this semester? Got a job? Take more into a job interview than just a transcript of grades. Responsibility, experience, pride, be a proven manager of men, money and material; be an officer of Marines, LaFortune Student Center today. 
anted :three or four roommates needed to share a Notre Dame Avenue apartment. Call Drew Bauer at 1715 or 287-3689. 
ENERGY NOW-a high protein food product tor those who need more energy-excellent food for athletes. For information: 233·6581. 
Attention L.Dgan Volunteers: ND­SMC Council for the Retarded's Annual Picnic to be held this Saturday, April 30, from 1 :00 p.m. till 4:30 p.m. Meet at Holy Cross Hall near the lake at 1:00 p.m. for the best picnic of the year! Any questions or comments call Jeanne Conboy 4347 or Art Koebel 8696. 
FOR RENT 

3 EXCELLENT HOUSES IN FINE NEIGHBORHOODS. Eack ideal for 4-6 students. cost adjusted to number of students $225-$300 plus utilities. Call Mr. Gatto 234-6688. 
For rent for next September. Fur­nished four bedroom house couple blocks from Notre Dame. Phone 277-3604. 
Summer rental furnished. four-bed­room house. $100.00 a month. Phone 277-3604. 
4 bedrooms, furnished apartment within walking distance of campus. Call William Hill, 232-1724. Sum­mer occupancy only. 
Two bedroom house to rent. Sum­mer and-or school year. 1012 Eddy Street. $120 mo. plus utilities. Call Oddies Harris at 232·8563. 
Summer lease from June 1 to August 25. Near NO -4 bedroom and 5 bedroom houses. 1 bedroom and 3 bedroom furnished apart­ments. Call 234-2626. 
Hickory Village sublease for sum­mer. Studio apartment. $125 per month. Call 272-8066 late evenJngs. 
5 bedroom house, real nice, large living room and kitchen, fully fur­nished, close to campus, has burglar alarm, call Charlie Moore, 232-7180. 
1 room ·with kitchen privileges. SSO per month. near bus line. Call 288-9533 after 5 p.m. 
Rooms $40 month. 233-1329. Rides. 
Apartment for summer rent. 2 bedrooms utilities paid. $140 per month. 287-6823. 
Kitchenette furnished apartment (l person J near campus, utilities fur­nished. Summer only. 272-6174. 
Furnished 3 bedroom house for summer includes washer-dryer. $150 per men. Call Mrs. Cooper 272-3004. 
. LOST & FOUND 

L.Dst: Orange wallet in Bookstore Tuesday. If found, please call 4-4160 no questions asked. 
A gold timex wathc lost near the mud pit Saturday. Electric with a brown band. Reward! Please call 3746. 
L.Dst: Blue dress h-at with dk. blue hat band. The type Bogart wore. It's my Uncle's hat. It's important 1get it back. If you find it or know where it is at please call 3086. 
FOund: a Cross pen -if yours call l83-3510 to identify. 
L.Dst: Beige cat with white paws and markings. Call 277-1306. 
L.Dst: Gold digital men's watch over at B-ball courts next to Stepan. Reward for return to Bob at phone 1779. 
. . 

________;,__...;....._'----­
new spending. 
the House Budget committee adjusted the revenue figure ac­cordingly. But the Senate commit­tee voted 10 to 3 on Wednesday to retain almost the original revenue estimates. 
Ifthe Senate committee's recom­mendation holds up when Congress takes final action, the resulting budget could accomodate a per­manent tax cut or revival of the payments play if the economy were judged to need it. 
Noonan performs in Howard show 
This Friday at 7 p.m. the Howard Academic-Cultural Commissio~ will present Jeff Noonan, classical guitarist, performing the works of Bach, Cimarosa, Ravel, Tarrego, and Walton in Howard Hall. 
Mr. Noonan began his studies of \classical ~uitar in 1973 while hE. was an undergraduate at Notre Dame. Since that time he has been studying, teaching and performing in Connecticut. In 1974, he entered the Hartt College of Music to study 
classical guitar, from where he will graduate this spring. Admis­sion to the recital is free1nd open to the public. 
WANTED 

Wanted: Female roommate to share Washington, D.C. townhouse this summer. Call Jennifer at 4-4211. 
Need ride to Syracuse (May 13), or after exams, no bags, will pay. Charlie 1620. 
2 people need ride to Southeast 
Florida  after  finals.  Not  much  
baggage. Tim 1868.  
Wanted:  a  copy  of  last  year's  

"Dome". Will pay$$. 233-8855. 
Wanted: Riders to Farmington, Mich. Leaving 4-29. Call Camille 4829. 
Found: Watch between Grace and Library on Monday April 18. Call John at 6775. 
L.Dst: 1 pair of Bauer ice skates in room 419 of the Administration Bldg. Call Tom at 8348. Reward! 
L.Dst: Two keys on a silver ring at Saint Mary's or Notre Dame. If found call 4-4007. 
L.Dst: Cowboy hat at Law Talent Show, in Law Building, Saturday. Info. call Michele 4-4692. 
A gold charm bracelet with 7 gold hearts engraved with my children's names and birth dates, and one gold heart with a diamond set in it and an engraving on the back in my husband's own hand writing. if found, or have any information concerning it, please call collect 914 834-7675. A liberal reward offered. Ouida N. Bundschuh. 
L.Dst: Red binder full of botany handouts. If found please call Karen at 2110. 
L.Dst: Yellow and blue reversable raincoat with hood. L.Dst Thursday night at Nickies'. Please call 4184 ask for Ziggy. 
L.Dst: Pair of eyeglasses (black wireJ in a soft black leather case near Pangborn and Fisher. Reward offer~ ed. Call 3059. 
L.Dst: An I D type bracelet without a nameplate. Sentimental value. Call for Dave 3339. 
L.Dst: gold 1976 Pl. Pleasant H.S. ring initial Vaike L. Reward. Call 3857. 
--------------~ 
L.Dst: Pair silver metal frame glasses Timex quartz watch, and NO class ring. Gomeone holding them from Sat. at mud pit. Rich 7495. 
L.Dst: Anne Klein, digital bradelet watch at Junior Formal. Reward for return. Call 6793. 
L.Dst: Red Addeda Jogging jacket during mud bath at Chariot Race. If found call Hank, 3327. 
Hey Hank, How come you can't hang onto your clothes??? 
L.Dst: 1 dark brown tri-fold wallet packed with very important stuff. Call Bill 3991 between 8 and 5. 
L.Dst: One, non-pierced, gold, hoop earring. L.Dop one inch in diameter. If found, call 8067. 
L.Dst: pr. glasses in light brown case 'Somewhere (?) Sat. nite. Campus View-Nickles-Library. Call 1208. 

i
Fiddler on the Roof 
I
No· 

· The loving theatr.ical hymn 
· to the Jewish people based 
; the Sholem Aleichem stories '
SMC 
Apr. 29, 30 May 5, 6, 7 THEATRE 8:00pm ;AU<!. 
284-4176 $2.50 ($2 ~dJ!ac.) 1 
FRI-7 :00-9:30 SAT-SU N-2 :00-4:30-7 :00-9:30 .MON-TH UR-7 :00-9:15 
rrs THE MOST IIILARIOUS SUSPENSE RIDE OF YOUR LD'E! 

DESPERATELY need ride to Pitts­burgh Thursday, April 28. Please call Val 7995. 
Need rider who can drive clutch well to OKC or Tulsa. Leave 17 Brian 2136. 
Wanted: Three or four roommates needed to share a Notre Dame Avenue apartment. Call Drew Bauer at 1715, or 287-3689. 
Desperately need ride to Blooming. ton or Indianapolis for this weekend (April 28 or 29) Will pay$$$. Call Vicki-6781. 
Wanted: Six tickets to Fiddler on the Roof -Friday May 20. 287-07 42. 
FOR SALE 

ALL NIKON. FTN body. 28, 50, 135, 200mm lenses, cases, filters, etc. Like new. Reply Box K-38 South Bend Tribune. 
For sale: coffee table 60 x 22 x 16. Good construction. Nice. $70. Also, 4-drawer dresser, $25. Call Goeff at 1078 or come by 519 Flanner. 
For Sale: Two matching brown and white patchwork quilted bedspreads Excellent condition! Best offer. Call 4-5165. 
Rug, curtains for sale. Call Joe Hughes (1481 J. 
Rare fish tor sale very cheap. Call 1631. 
'72 Dodge Challenger, 318 V8 automatic with console, P-S, AM radio, $1900.00. Call 272-3028 after 5:30. 
Fender Tele for sale with fuzz-watt and mini-amp. Quick sale -will negotiate. Terry 288-3706. 
'73 Monte c ...rto, emerald green, black vinyl roof, wire wheel covers, bucket seats, immaculate condition. 350 4-barrel with dual exhaust, air, AM-FM stereo tape. $2,950 or best offer. Call 272-5550 after 5 p.m. 
STEREO: San sui vacuum tube re­ceiver, 50-50 watts. Teac reel to reel. Garrard turntable with Shure cartridge. Pioneer 3-way speakers. Include tapes, headphones, micro­phones. $575. Call 8382. 
PERSONALS 

John Motto, Good luck on the Med­CATs!! G & C 
OK, kidde, there's your personal, now you have to come visit us!!! 
Speaking of visits, Hank, you owe us at least a million! 
Hey, 3rd floor Keenan, did you see that? Hank Laforet has had his name in the paper tour times today. My hero. 
FINAL PRE CANA SESSION, Satur­day May 7th 9:30a.m. to 4:30p.m. Anyone who has not signed up for Pre Dana instructions yet, please sign up for this one day conference. Contact Campus Ministry 103 Ub­rary -ext. 6536, 8832. 
Off-campus Beer party tonite 8 :30 . ? 718 N. St. L.Duis (right down from the Library bar) Mucho kegs. 
"Mell 
Sorry I ignored you, but who are you? Ed 
METRO GOlDWYN MAYER 
FAYEDUNAWAY 
WILLIAM HOLDEN 
PETER FINCH 
SPECIAL M 10-NIGHT SHOW ALL SEATS $1.50 
FRIDAY ONLY 
FRI-7:15-9:45-12 MIDNITE SAT-SUN-2 :15-4:45-7:15-9:451 fRl MON-THUR-7:00-9:15 \~ 
LOOKING FOR COMPETENT TY­PISTS FOR NEXT YEAR'S PRO· DUCTION STAFF. IF INTERESTED PLEASE DROP A NOTE OFF AT THE OBSERVER OFFICE OR GIVE ME A CALL: KAREN 4-5448. THESE ARE PAID POSITIONS. 
Schneider, Sure is hot up here iol this office. Guess I'll have to open a window. G 
Alone again? NC-SMC Hotline. 4-4311 opennights. 
Mary Pat Butler (woman): Congrats to the new president of the SMC Law Society. You're on your way to the top, babe!! Kathy 
Grab the dodo before it gets away. 
Wanted: 3 girls need ride to Bloomington or Indianapolis April 29 will pay$$. Call 4-5404. 
Monday was Doug Almeida's birth­day. Give him a call at 7374. He would love to hear from you. 
SMC STUDENTS! Save yourself a trip to N D. Observer classifieds are now sold in SMC Observer office. Regina South Basement. MW F 1:30 to 3:30 and TT 1-3. 
Party Friday night. 10 p.m.-? NO apts. 820-3B. Bob, Moon; Tex & Chip 

·Wanted: Three or four roommates needed to share a Notre Dame Avenue apartment. Call Drew Bauer at 1715, or 287-3689. 
Wanted: A Student Union L.Dgo. Reward: $20. All entries must be submitted April 28 to 2nd floor LaFortune. 
Peggy and Kathy, You stole our WEAR now it's our tum BEWEAR. 

Last nile concluded my career as ciri 'Observer employee. Many thanks to Marti Hogan, Fred Herbst, Joe Bauer, Paul Schappler, Bill Rivard and Leigh Tunakan, to name just a few of the fine people I've worked with. To the staff writers who brought their stories in the wee hours--shove your typewriter where the sun don'I shine. Finally, to Martha Fanning, my boss, I f\ave but a few words for you, and they're not Happy Birthday. Morey Blinder 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY MARY ELLEN KEENAN!! (No, this isn't from Jtm, but if you weren't so engaged maybe you'd realize I'm just as handsome. (Just kidding.)) 
Hey, Letto! You get a line, I'll get a pole.· We're all gonna throw you down that ol' crawdad hole! 
Need an idol? Well then join the Tom Iwanski Fan Club! For a nominal entrance fee you get a Tommy T-shirt, an autograph eye­patch, and a crow bar! Sned now and you'll receive, free of charge, a new set of soup forks. Remember, Iwanski is the alphabet spelled side­
ways. 
Cathy, Even though you are the biggest weirdo we know, we love ya anyway. Happy 21st. L.Dve, Michelle Marmi, Karen 
Theresa Rebeck, They made the right choice. Congra­tulations on being assigned Chair­man of the Sophomore Literary Festival. M.E. 
To Wh'om it may concern or atten. tlon Wart-hogs, Packy has mono. 
FOR SALE: BOOKSHELF COM­PONENT STEREO SYSTEM.GOOD CONDITION. MUST SEU.. -Ht~ 2061. 
--------~--~-;:--":"':~. 
-----~-­
8 the observer Thursday, April 28, 1977 
O'Sullivan fosters athletic tradition 
by Frank LaGrotta "I wanted to use my knowledge the game is also evident in the Sports Writer and IC'vc of athletics," O'Sullivan golfers that play for him. He looks revealed, "and I realized that I for players with basic atheltic 
Anyone who knows anything was a little past the age of a proficiency and maintains that they about athletics can tell you that participant so I decided to channel can be taught the finer points of the coaches arc exceptional people. A my efforts into the coaching field. I game. good coach must be able to deal applied to three colleges, Santa "It isn't necessary that the with superiors and team supporters Clara, Miami and Notre Dame and freshman trying to earn a spot on while also serving as an instructor, after I was accepted to all three I the golf team be extremely experi­guide and friend to his athletes. chose Notre Dame on the advice of enced," O'Sullivan explained. 
Boasting an athletic program my father who told me, 'Go to "What I do look for is the player laden with tradition, it is no Notre Dame!' Also, at the time, that has a reasonably complete accident that history's greatest Notre Dame was one of the top five athletic background because he has coaches have found a home at physical education schools in the a good chance of acquiring the Notre Dame. Knute Rockne... Ara United States." skills of golf rather easily. Basically Parseghian... Jake Kline... These After he graduated in 1960, that is the type of player that we arc just a few of the many men who O'Sullivan received a graduate get at Notre Dame. The freshman have lent their talents to the fellowship to continue his educa­with inate ability carried over from university of the Golden Dome. tion at Notre Dame. He attended other sports that he participated in 
Although his name may not be as graduate school for one year and hi£h school." familiar as those mentioned above, was appointed to a faculty position "It's great to be blessed with an Noel O'Sullivan, Notre Dame's in 1961. experienced golfer, one who has amiable golf coach, is making the O'Sullivan assumed the reins of been swinging the club since he same contribution to the Irish the varsity golf squad in 1974 after was five-years old," O'Sullivan tradition as his colorful counter­serving as an assistant to Rev. admitted with a smile. "However, parts did. a winning program and Clarence Durbin for one year. Two in most cases that isn't the way it outstanding student-athletes. He men that he claims responsible for happens. We get players with a adheres to rather positive coaching his receiving the head coaching nod basic ability and we help him philosophies that account for the are Athletic Director Edward develop that ability." golf program's success. 'Moose' Krause and former football Apparently Coach O'Sullivan's 
•'There is a definite teaching mentor, Ara Parseghian. methods have been more than a factor involving in coaching golf or "I was closely associated with little successful as he has built a any other sport," O'Sullivan point­Ara for eight years," the congenial quite respected golf program here ed out. "It is my job to make sure Irishman related, "during which at Notre Dame without the assis­that every player perfects the basic time we played handball at least tance of full scholarships to offer skills of the game. In hitting twice every week. During that time prospective golfers. sessions we work on grip, stance we would discuss coaching phil­"We do offer vairable grants-in­and swing and, with my observa­osophies and techniques. It's no aid to golfers based on their tion and help, the players master secret that Ara knew his stuff. performance the previous year,'' these skills." Another influencing figure for me O'Sullivan pointed out, "but we 
"Another technique that we at Notre Dame was Ed 'Moose can offer nothing to incoming have been using for the last couple Krause who has helped me greatly freshmen. We do recruit players important in an individual sport place at the Purdue Invitational we 
of years is camera work," the golf throughout my tenure here. He is a however and we sell the university like golf. Without it, we fail as battled the elements at the Mid­
a mentor continued. "We photo­great man who helps our program and the program on their merits team. Oh yes, we'll have medalists American Invitational and came graph every golfer's swing and tirelessly.'' alone." and players with great scores and away with a fourth place berth.'' 
then we project it on a wall and It is interesting to note that "Most of my recruiting efforts renowned reputations, but our A NCAA bid, emphasized O'Sul­
study it. We also use pictures of a O'Sullivan never played golf until are concentrated in Catholic high team will suffer." 
livan, is not out of the question.
professional's swing and we com­he was a student at Notre Dame. schools," O'Sullivan expounded, Displaying a positive attitude "Because we are a young team,"pare what each golfer is doing to He talks about his introduction to "because I have found that there and, of course, the necessary skills 
he "our

the proper way to swing a golf club. the game with satisfaction. are many good student-athletes in on the course, O'Sullivan is optim­admitted, chances are 
dimmed a bit. there

This filming technique is used "I never played the game of golf Catholic schools. The Catholic istic about the reaminder of the But is no 
telling what can happen. We are
widely in college coaching and it is until I was a student at Notre atmosphere helps them to better season and forcasts a possible playing well and if we put togethera prime reason for our success." Dame," O'Sullivan admitted, "but keep their lives and their abilities NCAA bid for the Irish. 
a strong finish we could be one of
A native of Elizabeth. N.J .. it was easy for me to pick up the in perspective which is what our "Our record this season has O'Sullivan established himself as fundamentals of the game because program here at Notre Dame been quite impressive," O'Sullivan the three teams in our district an exceptional athlete early in life. I had a background in athletics. I stresses." pointed out with satisfaction. "We (District IV). to grab an NCAA 
bid."

He left St. Patrick's High School had the inate abilities of touch and Presently, O'Sullivan fields a were state
second in the tourna­with four letters in baseball, four coordination developed by other team of six men who's play this ment and we missed being number An energetic man who spends letters in basektball, two letters in sports when I started to play the season he terms as "excellent." one in the whole state of Indiana by his _spare time teaching disadvan­track and field and numerous game. Then I took a few pro lessons "Right now my six-man team only two strokes. We won our taged children to swim and play awards for swimming and diving. and developed my game on my roster consists of junior Captain, invitational in the fall and we came golf, O'Sullivan is emphatic when Called by Uncle Sam· in 1951 to own." Rich Knee, who presently occupies through the meaty part of he talks about his future. 
our serve his country in the Korean "It was a challenge," the coach the number one position; Tim schedule much better than we "My future is right here," conflict., O'Sullivan spent three went on, "because all the athletic Saurs and Biv Wadden, both anticipated. We came in eighth out O'Sullivan exclaimed. "I want to years in the service as a sergeant. exposure I had had was in team sophomores who now occupy the of 17 teams in Florida. The only bring the Notre Dame golf program After his discharge. the future Irish sports. Now I had the chance to second and third positions respec­northern team that beat us was to a level where we are the best in golf coach spent a few years as a display individual skills." tively; and John Lundgren, Dave Michigan but Michigan happened the midwest. I want to see Notre member of the working force The athletic ability that aided Knee and Eric Bauwens all fresh­to be down in Florida 12 days Dame invited to the NCAA playoffs 
before coming to Notre Dame.' O'Sullivan in aquiring the skills of man filling the fourth, fifth and before we arrived." every year without fail and do well sixth spots," the Irish golf coach • • After the Florida trip we began in those tournaments. Once I outlined. our spring schedule and won our achieve that, there's no place else 
"These men meet all my require­first three duels with record break­to go."
Hockey recruits announced 
ments as athletes and students," ing performances," O'Sullivan Yes, coaches are exceptionalO'Sullivan continued, "They're went on. "We took third in the people. With a spirit for competi­Notre Dame hockey coach Lefty skaters for the Irish. total students; they're controlled Indianapolis Invitational but a dis­tion yet a compassion for the 
Smith and assistant coach-recruit­athletes; they're competitive; they appointing second round dropped person, Noel O'Sullivan is not just
Cameron is a junior B playering coordinator Ric Schafer have from Markham. Ontario. Cameron 
announced that nine student-athle­teamed with present Irish skater tes will enroll at the University for Greg Meredith in Canada and the I'H7-78 academic year. 

stands at 6-1. 190 pounds.
"I am very pleased with the 

Five other players should pro­incoming personnel and am sure vide the Irish with scoring powerthat all will make a significant after the loss of several outstanding 
contribution after their initial 

forwards to graudation. Kevinadjustment to the fast-paced Wes­Humphreys, Mark Sicoly. Briantern Collegiate Hockey Associ­Delaney, Charles Davis and Donation... says Srhafer. Smith notes Hitzel are incoming freshman whothat "All are in the top of their bring with them impressive athletic class academically and will help and academic creditials. Hum­offset the graduation losses suf­phreys. a 5-8. 160 pound forward, fered this season ... 
set all records for scoring in theLeading the list of four incoming Green Bav, Wisconsin area and will 
I dHensemen is Jeff Brownschidle, a be the fi~st Wisconsin recruit for 1-~ o-1. 180-pound' AHAUS Junior the Irish.
All-American from East Amherst,I Sicoly is a playmaker from Sault
New York. Brownschidle is the 
brother of two-time Irish All-Amer­

Ste. Marie. Ontario. who also has ~ ican Jack. who co-captained Notre good scoring ability according to 
I Dame this past season. Brown­Schafer. Sicoly is a 6-0, 175 pound schidle was a standout defensemen 
I 
center who is from the same area as on the U.S. Junior team that 
former Irish skaters Eddie Bum­
recently toured Europe. bacco and Ray DeLorenzi. Don Lucia. Paul Gagnon and Scott Delaney, along with Hitzel and 
Cameron are also top blueliner Davis, are other top skaters. Del­
I candidates. Lucia is a 6-1, 190-aney was the captain and leading 


pound all-stat~ player in both scorer of Marimer High School in 
hockev and football from Grand White Bear Lake, Minnesota. Hit· ' Rapids, Minnesota. Gagnon, a zel and Davis were also captains of three-vear letter winner at state their high school teams, Hitzel runner-up Edina East High School, hailing from Notre Dame High ·~ .. 
is  a  5-10,  180 pounder who  will  School  in N'des ,  Illinois,  while  
hopefully follow in the footsteps of  Davis is from Flossmoor, Illinois.  
Edina  East graduates  Bill  Nyrop  Both were the leading  scorers on  Trying  to fill  two-time All-American  jack Brownschidle's skates will  be  no  easy  task for  his  
and Steve Curry, both outstanding  their teams.  highly-touted younger brother, Jeff.  








