
server 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's
Vol. II, No. 73 Friday, February 4, 1977 
Corby's to shut down this month 

Brunner, "is a classic case of a Corby's is not bright. As of now, outstanding stude-nt bartenders, proliferation of five -bars whose the adult business ordinance has 
we developed a fairly decent stu­patrons cause problems and nuis­driven Stouffer and O'Bryan out of dent trade.'' ances for the adjacent neighbor­the tavern business. 
"We've been very pleased with hood.'' "When we took over the busi­the relationships weve had with the Since the city has disallowed the ness," said Stouffer, "it was just a students here," concluded Stouf­construction of the new tavern small, neighborhood tavern. But fer. "We regret that we have to O'Bryan admitted that the future of with our outstanding managers and close." 
In Midwest, East cold spots 
Extra gas to relieve crunch 
By the Associated Press used to supply high-priority custo­making personal sacrifices, but mers such as homes and hospitals. they're not doing lt.'' ­The new storm was the result of The city picked up another two 
A new winter storm dropped a cold front from the Great Lakes inches of snow overnight, but most snow on several areas in the into the middle Mississippi Valley, retail outlets that had been closed Midwest and East yesterday, as Pittsburgh; International Falls, all week reopened yesterday. extra supplies of natural gas began Minn.; Cleveland and Youngstown, Mayor Stanley M. Makowski moving toward the region to ease Ohio; and Fort Wayne, Ind., got an said he lifted the driving ban 
the energy crunch caused by the inch of snow yesterday morning. because of the cost of lost business. cold. There also was light snow or "I simply weighed the incon­The worst of the frigid weather warning of flurries along the East venience to snow removal efforts 
against potential losses to indivi­seemed over in some areas, but the Coast. 

duals and business people.'' herepercussions lingered. Officials said.

said plant closings and layoffs, now Emergency In Buffalo involving up to two million persons, 
National Fuel Gas Corp. said it could last until spring. In Buffalo, N.Y. which was shut had begun receiving an extra 30 
Federal authorities worked to down by a blizzard a week ago, the million cubic feet of natural gas allocate natural gas according to easing of one emergency brought daily from Texas for Buffalo and where it was needed most, follow­the beginning of another. may get more. "We're in good 
ing enactment of emergency en­A ban imposed Tuesday on shape," said Louis R. Reif, the ergy legislation. The gas started nonessential driving was lifted company president. But he said no flowing even before the bill's Wednesday night and motorists decision had been made about signing, but it moves at only 15 created massive traffic jams yes­ending curtailments to business miles an hour. terday morning. and industry. The extra gas is The industrial cutbacks, caused "People seem awfully reluctant designed to make up for synthetic 
by the curtailment of natural gas to to set up car pools," said John gas lost due to the breakdown on businesses, will not be eased by Meyer of the Police Traffic Di­Tuesday of a plant at a nearby oil the extra fuel since that will be vision. "They could contribute by refinery. 

Local bars to accept student I D's 
owner, and if he wants to accept a someone for is underage drink­by Dave O'Keefe student I. D., he's sticking his neck ing," said Rice. "If someone is 21 Staff Reporter out." but he only has a student I.D. to Detective Kilgore of the South prove it, he isn't in any trouble.'' 
Despite the fact that Notre Dame Bend Police Department (SBPD) Sgt. Szalay of the Special Opera­and St. Mary's student identifi­echoed Rice. "As far as I can see," tions division of the SBPD, the unit cation cards are not legally legiti­said Kilgore, "there's nothing responsible for raiding bars, felt mate forms of age identification, wrong with a student l.D. as long that the bar owner runs a consider­
neither the Alcoholic Beverages as it's used in conjunction with a able risk when he accepts only the Commission (ABC) nor the South proper form of identification." student !.D. Bend Police Department will refuse "We can require the patron to ''The problem with the student 
to accept such identification as have three Lb.'s," he continued, I. D.'s is that they aren't hard to 
legitimate proof in the event of a "but he can have only two if one is come by." Szalay cited an exam­raid on a bar. a picture I.D.'' ple: "We arrested some girls last Sgt. Rice of the LaPorte office of Both Kilgore and Rice report that September for underage drinking the ABC said, "Technically, the the Notre Dame or St. Mary's l.D. and one of the girls was using the 
I.D. is supposed to be a federal or is acceptable as a supporting piece I. D. of a girl who had graduated the state government document like a of identification. Although the June before." draft card of driver's license, or it stuuent I.D. is not legally legiti­But as long as the bar owners 
can be a birth certificate." mate, no penalty can arise from feel that that risk is minimal. the "But," Rice added, "it isn't up using only the student !.D. Notrl' Oaml' and St. Marv's !.D.'s
as to us to prove whether or not a identification. will nllltinul' to hl' :ll'l'~'ptl'd as 
person is 21. It's up to the tavern "The only thing we can arrest kgitimatl' forms of proof of agl'. 
..' ..· ,-,
~ • • ' I • 
I;:' • • • . 
by Bob V arettonl Staff Reporter 

Corby's, under its present man­agement will close before the end of February, according to Roger Stouffer, owner of the business. 
Stouffer, whose lease is about to expire, said Corby's will close down after Feb. 26. The owners of the property, hesaid,do not want to renew his lease. 
"They haven't offered us a new lease," said Stouffer. "They want our business for themselves.'' 
Stouffer said he believes another bar will be opened in Corby's place. He added, however, that he does not know when the bar will reopen. That, he said, will be up to the new management. 
Stouffer has been operating Cor­by's for the past eight years. He said that when the bar reopens it may look completely different than Corby's does now. He said the new management will not be able to call the bar "Corby's" anymore. 
Over a year ago, Stouffer ex­plained, Corby's property was taken over by investors from out of state. These people, he said, will hire the new management. Stouffer said he was not free to say exactly who these people are since the ownership is in a trust. 
"They made it clear to me," commented Stouffer, "that if I did not want to buy the building, they would not renew my lease." 
Stouffer said he did not buy the building since he already had other plans for his business. Stouffer also stated he wanted to build a new "Corby's" on the land which he owns next to the present Corby's. He began construction plans for the new tavern two years ago. 
Construction stopped when the city council passed a new • • adult business" ordinance on Jan. 10. The ordinance, supported by the Northeast Neighborhood Asso­ciation bans one tavern from set­ting up within 1,000 feet of another. 
By the time the ordinance had passed, Stouffer had already built the foundation for the new Corby's. 
He had also applied to the St. Joseph County Alcoholic Beverage Board to transfer his liquor permit to the new site. 
Building Commissioner John DeLee officially closed down the construction site two weeks ago. DeLee said Stouffer did not have a building permit. He added that the constrution without a permit was illegal. 
D.J. O'Bryan, Corby's manager claimed that this was not the case. He said Stouffer did not need to apply for a permit up to a certain point. He added that construction stopped before then, when Stouffer realized the new city ordinance would be passed. 
When DeLee ended the plans for building a new Corby's, City Attorney Thomas Brunner claimed a victory for the new ordinance. According to the South Bend Tribune, Brunner announced that construction of another tavern in the "bar-saturated area" of Corby and Eddy streets and South Ben Ave. had been nipped in the bud. 
"The Corby-Eddy area," said 
Reserve chairman Burns criticizes Carter tax plan 
WASHINGTON [AP] -President Carter's $50-per-person tax rebate plan, already under criticism from some congressional Democrats, was described by Federal Reserve Board Chaiman Arthur· F. Burns yesterday as a bad approach to boosting the economy. 
Burns told the House Banking Committee that Carter's overall $31.2 billion economic program is an· 'Inefficient way to stimulate the economy." But he said the board· will cooperate to create jobs and speed economic growth in 1977. 
Even so, Burns said he does not think that such a program is needed, especially the $50 rebates on 1976 taxes. 
"The Treasury doesn't have this money. The Treasury has to go out and_ borrow it. It's not a good habit ... for out county to get into,'' Burns said. 
Burns mixed criticism of the Carter plan with praise. He said the Carter plan is "prudent" considering the advice he was getting. •· All in all ... l think he has done quite admirably," Burns told the committee. 
Sen. Hubert H. Humphrey, meanwhile, warned that the unu­sually cold winter will erode the impact of the rebates, and a government report said the weath­er will cost each household $139 in added fuel costs. 
"Heating bills will consume all of the tax rebate," Humphrey warned Charles Schultze, chairman of the President's Council of Eco­nomic Advisers, at a hearing of the Joint Economic Committee Wed­nesday. 
Humphrey released a Library of Congress study that estimated the extra fuel costs this winter will total $8.4 billion, or an average of $139 per household. The study also projected a J?OSsible wage loss of $1.6 billion because of plant shut­downs. 
"If that's anywhere near right, it's an awful blow to the economy,'' Humphrey said. 
Schultze said a special admini­stration task force was trying to assess the economic damage caused by the weather. He conceded that the administration may have to increase the rebates or boost the two-year. $31.2 billion economic stimulus program in some other way to offset the weather's effects. 
But Treasury Secretary W. Mi­chael Blumenthal told the House Banking Committee he saw no need to increase the package. While the weather "clearly makes the situation worse," the economy has performed •'better than ex­pected" in recent months, he said. 
And Burns said yesterday that while the severe winter is CitUSing problems for the economy now he does not expect it to cause any lasting economic harm this year. 
Blumenthal said he expects the 
Federal Reserve Board will cooper­
ate in its money and interest rate 
policies with the Carter plan. 
.. 
... ... ...
.. -·.'["•'-.. ~ ..... 
, '... .,. 

the observer 

-On Campus Today-.. 
friday 

2pm right to die symposium, "beyond quinlan and saikewicz: developing legal standards for decisions not to treat terminally ill patients" by jonathan brant, massachusetts assistant attorney general in charge of the privacy section, cce aud. 
2:45pm right to die symposium, "the california natural death act:life, death and the law" by california assemblyman barry m. keene, cce aud. 
3:45pm right to die symposium, "medical care for the terminally ill patient: legal issues" by dennis horan, chicago attorney and chairman of american bar associations right to live, right to die committee. 
colloquium, "some new solutions to the similarity4:30pm problems and the conjugacy problem in semisimple lie algebras" by prof. michael gauger, univ. of massachusetts, room 226 computer center, math bldg. 
5:15pm mass and dinner. bulla shed. 
Bpm bridge, duplicate bridge, university club. 
9-12pm n.d. first jazz combo, nazz. 
saturday Bam test, law school admission test. engineering aud. 
noon-11pm show, cavalcade of wheels, ace tickets: $3 adults, $1 children 7-12, free for children 6 and under. 
7:30pm meeting, society for creative anachronism, subject: dungeons and dragons, Iafortune rathskeller. 
8pm ballet, michiana ballet potpourri, o'laughlin aud., · ticket information: 284-4176. 

9pm-12pm michelle parnell and lin johnson, lee henricks and dennis klee, nazz 
sunday 

9am-9pm show, calvalcade of wheels, ace 
2pm meeting, st. mary's college law society, graduates speak on law school, room 161lemans. 
6,8:30& film, "a man called horse," knight of columbus hall, 11pm 

admission $1--no charge for members. 
7pm black cultural arts festival, hon. gary cooper, alabama state representative and imamu amiri baraka, author, poet, critic and chairman, revolu­tionary communist league, library aud. 
7,7:30,8, mardi gras dealers school in Iafortune center aud., also feb. 7-10. 

8:30&9pm film, "bicycle thief" carroll hall, sponsored by nd/smc theater, tickets:$1. 

(*The Observer) 
Night Editor: Bob Brink Ass't Night Editor: Katie Kerwin, Rosemary Mills Layout Staff: Laurie McNvlty, Paul Schappler Editorial Layout: Jerry Hickey Features Layout: Chris Smith Sports Layout: Tony Pace Typists: Gwen Coleman, Don Roos, Mary McCormick, Sue Shellenbarger EMT: Terri Harlan Day Editor: Mary Pat Tarpey Copy Reader: Tom Byrne, Barbara Breitenstein (but where is Ray O'Brien?) Ad Layout: Tom Walrath 
lPhotographer: Dom Yocius J 
ERRATUM 

Laundry service will be open on Saturday from 7:30 a.m. to 11:30 a.m., not from 7:30 a.m. to 11:30 
p.m. as stated in Thursday's Observer. 
The Ob'ierver is published Monday 
through Fnday and weekly dunng 
the summer sess1on. except dunng 
the exam and vacat1on periods The 
Observer is publ1shed by students of 
the University of Notre Dame and 
St Mary's College Subscnptions 
may be purchased for $20 per year 
($10 per semester) from The Obser­
ver, Box Q. Notre Dame, Indiana 
46556 Second class postagP paid, 
Notre Dame, lnd1ana 46556 
The Observer is a member of the 
Associated Press. All reproduction 
rights are reserved 

Need a friend? N·D·-S·M·C· Hotline a confidential listening service 4-4311 8-12 p.m. Sun.-Thurs. 8-2 a.m. Fri.-Sat 
Have You SeenThis Man? 




TomWaits 
who si.ngs of waitresses, strippers, and old cars, of down and outs who are into muscatel and gin, and of late nights and smokey barrooms is back with 
"Small Change" 
his fourth album on Asylum Records. Waits' music is a lesson in reality with its bluesy, jazzy and cool presentation of pain, poverty and perversion. "Small Change;• a small price to pay for a contemporary talent. 
Tom Waits' new album, "Small Change~ on Asylum Records and Tapes. 
• Produced by Bones Howe for Mr. Bones Publications, Inc. 

-JJilJ 919 College Square 
SUNDAY MASSES 
(Main Church) 

~RECORDS 
5:15 p.m. Saturday· Rev. Robert Griffin, C.S.C. 
Across from Town & Country
9:30 a.m. Sunday Rev. Michael Glockner, C.S.C. 
10:45 a.m. Sunday Rev. James E; Kelly, C.S.C. 

Shopping Center Hours: Mon-Sat 10-9 p.m. 
12:15 p.m. Sunday Rev. Willaim Toohey, C.S.C. 
Vespers are at 7:1 sp.m. in Lady Chapel. Rev. James E. Kelly, C.S.C. is celebrant. 
f 


Sun 12-6 p.m.
;. . 
----------------~·--, .:-_:.:.·__ ---------·------___._ --·-......... i. ...... tt.~·--......... ~ •.·...............~. ('• ..... ~·· •>·--•:""••.-• .......................~........ .._ ............ ..,...... :•••.,),.•.•~ •.••...:. 4,4>' ........-~~ ..... '-........ y. ....... ··" ..., .• 
~ 


On party situation 


Gassman advises policy change 

by Dave Rumbach 

Student Body President Mike Gassman told the Student Body Congress last night that present University policies concerning the use of alcohol at on-campus parties should be changed to improve the social atmosphere in the halls. 
"We want to prepare and pro­pose a policy that would allow hall parties to return to the hall common rooms and would be compatible with state laws," said Gzssman. He also stated that this proposal need not depend on the passage of the bill currently in the Indiana Senate that wouldlower the State's drinking age to 19. 
This bill, according to a report by Jerry Klingenberger, who heads the Notre Dame student lobby, is presently in committe in the Indiana Senate but should soon reach t~Ie floor where it will face its first test. Klingenberger stated that all 1200 Indiana residents attending Notre Dame h'ave receiv­ed information about the bill and the names and addresses of In­diana senators and congressmen. 
The congress also discussed the social space problem at Notre Dame and St. Mary's. Student Body Vice-President Mike Casey reported on the formation of pro­posals by the Student Life Council to equalize the amount of social space among the halls. 
Gassman also discussed the pro­posed renovation of the LaFortune Student Center. "We want to better the existing student facilities 

Quinlan family attorney stresses faith in dealing with right to live 
by Barb Langhenry Senior Staff Reporter 

Paul W. Armstrong, attorney for the family of Karen Anne Quinlan stated yesterday that men need faith in human reasoning when evaluating a person's "right to live.'' 
At Notre Dame for a symposium exploring the "Ethical, Legal and Medical Aspects of the Treatment of the Terminally Ill Patient," which is being held today, Arm­strong explained points concerning 
the  Quinlan  case  at  a  press  
conference.  
"All the decision  (New Jersey  

Supreme Court decision to allow Quinlan to be removed from a respirator) did was say 'yes, you as an individual have a right to make that decision," he explained. 
He added that the decision affects future cases similar to Quinlan's in that people will recog­nize the fundamental rights of the individual. 
"We as individuals have a constitutional right to make decis­ions like this," he said. If the person is incompetent it becomes the guardian's right, stated Arm­strong. 
"Karen became every man and the American people were able to empathize with her and her fam­ily." He remarked that a nation­wide poll indicated that most people would make the same decision the family was asking for in the case. 

Valentine's Day 
Classified Ads 
Tell your Valentine and the world how you really feel! 


Ads will betaken in the Observer office Everyday until5, 
Valentine Special: Up to 10 words for $1.00! 
................................................... 
-
Armstrong noted the difference ing terminal illness cases and between euthanasia, which takes euthanasia cases. action to bring the demise of the Armstrong stated that his pri­individual, and a case of terminal mary arguments in the case were illness where extraordinary means emphasizing a free exercise of the are stopped and replaced by modal­right to religion protected by the ities of support that do nothing to first amendment to the U.S. consti­thwart the natural death process. tution and pointing out that in the 
"The key is terminal illness," he Catholic Church persons are not remarked, attempting to draw a under obligation to use extraord­distinction between cases concern-inary means. 
Regina & S. U. Social Commission present the ... 
'Ask Me To Dance'' Dance 
in Regina North 



Saturday February 
You don't need a jacket, 
No Theme 
a tie or a formal gown!!!! 
No Costumes 
Just a down home Party!!!! 
No Flowers 
Music by Sahara 8:30--1:00 Admission $1.00 
by proposing changes based on the 
recent student government survey 
and the research we have done," 
he said. 
The congress also considered the desirability of the 8 a.m. exams. Gassman expressed the desire to form a unified student opinion to be presented to the Academic Council by the student faculty representa­tives. The Academic Council will decide if 8 a.m. exams will continue at their next meeting. 
Co-ex Commissioner Rick Little­field announced an increase in the number of North-South co-ex din­ner and lunch tickets from 25 to SO. Littlefield also stated that the ND-SMC shuttle bus will make an additional stop at Notre Dame's Holy Cross Hall on the last two runs each night. The bus will reach Holy Cross at 10:15 p.m. and 12:15 
a.m. 
on Sunday through Thursday nights and at 12:10 a.m. and 2:10 

a.m. 
on Friday and Saturday nights. 


SBP Mike Gassman announced that student purchasing cards are currently being processed and will be distributed to all Notre Dame and St. Mary's students free of charge. The cards will allow stu­dents to receive a 10 to 20 percent discount at 10 or 15 local busines­ses. He also stated that the student laundromat will be located in the basement of Badin Hall as soon as the Badin tailor shop could be moved The transition should be definitely made by next fall and possibly immediately after spring break. 

·. iht (ultmiaJ 


Fanrake Huus£ 
OUR SPECIALTY 
OVEN BAKED APPLE PANCAKES You'II be back for more 
US 31 (Dixieway North) in Roseland <Across from Holiday Inn) 
FORUM.I 
NEXT TO NORTH VILLAGE MALL 
*7th Smash Week* 
weekdays . 7 :00 -9:30 Sat., Saun. 2:00 . 4:30 · 7:00 · 9:30 
ENE WILDER 
JILL CLAYBURGH ~!sses 
or 
SAT· NITE ONLY 
. EXTRA SPECIAL-FORUM II PROMPTLYATB:OO PM COME EARLY AS 6:00 OR LATE AS 8:00-SEE BOTH FEATURE~ FOR THE PRICE OF ONE 


again this friday night! ladies night at the senior bar 
hot wine and wine coolers $.50 
beer ~pedals all night $.30 0 ~ &~ 
#!~ 0 

u ~ 




saturday night is foreign program night all members of the nd-smc foreign programs (ron1e,innsbruck ~ngers, mexico city, japan, london law andsummer programs invited! drink specials 9-1 7 & 7's $.50 gin & tonics $.50 

DOONESBURY 
by Garry Trudeau 

rr*The Observer an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's 
The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters are the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and letters are encouraged to promote the free expression of varying opinions on campus. 
Every hall should have an active judicial 
board available for students who want a 
hearing. Despite elaborate procedural 
guarantees in du Lac, the student hand­
book, most hall j-boards are weak and 
ignored. The primary reason for this is 
widespread ignorance among students and 
rectors of the merits of the boards. In some 
halls, a more disturbing obstacle also 
exists: resistance by rectors, a violation of 
University rules. 
There are several advantages to hall 
j-boards. They can help to build a sense of 
community by encouraging cooperation
between students and hall staffs on 
common problems. They provide a chance 
for students to participate in the governing 
of their own affairs, and to learn principles 
of due process. The rector is relieved of the 
necessity of playing "enforcer." Finally,
the j-board offers an alternative for the 
student who fears the rector· may be 
biased. 
Several rectors have said they do not 
think hall boards would be workable. But 
the experiences of Keenan and Morrissey
show otherwise. Both have very active 
boards which handle almost all cases 
arising in their halls and both rectors are 
enthusiastic supporters of the system.
Of course the student may want his case heard by the rector. Under the du Lac rules he can choose either rector or j-board. The board is optional, not mandatory, but students should be aware that they are entitled to that option in cases dealing with 
halloffenses. (Read du Lac and know your
rights!) Unfortunately the disciplinary proced­ures are ignored in some halls where the rectors resist the system. Bob Bode, student govemmep.t JUdicial cooJ'dinator, 
EDITORIAL BOARD 
Thomas O'Neil Dan Sanchez Chris Smith Gregg Bangs Val Zurblis Pat Hanifin Tim O'Reiley Bob Mader Maureen Flynn Marti Hogan Kathy Mills Barb Breitenstein Don Reimer
Box Q 

Martha L. FanningNotre Dame
Business Manager Tom Fronczak 
Advertising Manager Mike Miller Fred Herbst Photo Editor Tony Chifari Ind. 46556 Tom Byrne 
Editor-in-Chief Managing Editor Asst. Managing Ed. Executive Editor Executive Editor Editorial Editor Features Editor Exec. News Editor Campus Editor St. Mary's Editor News Editor News Editor Copy Editor Production Editor Sports Editor Contributing Editor 
~ Friday, February 4, 1977 ..J 







Judicial boards 

Beslts, I «lAS GET­TIN6 A liTTLe RIJSTY! A fl3JV FRE£-LANC/3. «JRITIN6 6/65 «JJN'T 00 M/3 ANY HARM I 
\ 

has worked very hard to revive the hall-boards but there is little that student government can do about a rector like Fr. John "Moose" Mulcahy of Flanner who is openly hostile to letting anyone but himself deal with hall cases. There have been rumors of Mulcahy using his authority as housing director to evict supposed trouble­makers from Flanner. 
In such situations some students fear that demanding their rights would amount to asking for a heavier penalty for bucking the system. Of course hitting people with 
The weather man
penalties for demanding their rights is a further violation of their rights but there seems to be little a student can do about it. The Dean of Students, however, is 
jiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii art bu c hwaI d 
required under Disciplinary Procedure No. 
WASHINGTON--People who talk 
3 to see that the du Lac procedures are 
about the weather are now getting
'respected. But though Dean Roemer 
paranoid about it. They keep
favors the hall boards he has little practical 
looking at the TV weather maps
power in this matter. Rectors realize that 
and they aren't laughing any more
their standing with the central administra­
at the jolly men and women who
tion is not going to be much affected by 
are bringing them bad weather
their attituae towards judicial boards. 
news.

Further1 the Dean's intervention would 
I know this for a fact. I was
contradict the valuable and long-standing 
sitting in the living room with
principle of hall autonomy. 
Seltzer and the weatherman said,
The -rectors should cooperate in the "Well, I guess you folks out thererevival of judicial boards. As of now we are wondering when it's going to have procedural rules that are not only warm up. Would you believe things unenforced, but are unenforceable as well. are going to get worse before theyOnce again we find that the rules at Notre get better?" Dame apply only to students, not to "I'll kill the SOB," Seltzer said, administrators. This raises a question we as he made a move toward the have asked before: Aside from rules which screen. are valid in themselves (e.g. the rule I stopped him. "It's not his fault against theft), why should students follow that the news is bad." rules administrators made for students "Why does he have to grin when When administrators ignore rules they he's telling it? Cronkite doesn't made for themselves? grin when he tells you about an 
Amtrak train derailing in New Jersey." The weatherman was standing 
up in front of a screen. "Let's take a look at the satellite map. This white stuff here means it


P.O.BoxQ 
is cloudy over the eastern part of 
Dear Editor: 
Through the abundance of criti­
. cism resulting from the Catholic Church's opposition to women priests, a positive step toward fulfilling the Vatican's goal of a "natural resemblance" between Christ and his ministers seems to have been ignored. Notre Dame has a golden opportunity to follow the papal cue and initiate an investigation into determintng what Christ really looked like. 
Naturally such an undertaking would only be a preliminary step, to be followed by application of the findings in a world-wide search, a sort of a look-alike contest, for men that fit the bill. These men would eventually replace the present priests but untill then the unsuit­able older priests could be encour­aged to use make-up. 
This is a difficult and expensive plan, but consider for a moment the priceless returns in the ease of seeing ''in the minister the image of Christ." But I assume you've had enough of my little satire and hopefully we've had enough of a sexist, tradition-bound church. 
D.R. Johnson 

··'Why does Canaaa let it pass 
through?"Seltzer asked. "Tell me 
that." 
"Because if she didn't let it pass 
through it would become a station­
ary front and hang over Canada. No 
country wants a dark cloud hanging 
over it day and night.'' 
The weatherman was still talk­
ing. "Now behind this cold front is 
another cold front coming up from 
the South." 
"I knew it," shouted Seltzer. 
"The South is sending all its bad 
weather north. The people down 
there don't care any more about us 
than the Canadians." 
"The South is suffering, too," I 
said. 
"Good. If they want to originate 
cold fronts they have it coming to 
them." 
We turned back to the weather­
man. "But what we really have to 
be concerned about is this low­
pressure system over here of warm 
air meeting this high-J?ress~re 
system over here. o~ c~ld atr whtch . could cause prectpttatiOn of up to two feet of snow." . Seltzer threw hts shoe at the screen. 
The weatherman chuckled. "So 
be prepared to put on your long 
underwear and your galoshes and if 
you can start your car up, you'll 
have better luck than I did this 
morning." 
"Let me ask you somethin," 
Seltzer said. "How come the 
newspapers have a little box some­
where with the weather which says 
'Sunny, Ooudy, Rain or Sleet,' and 
television spends 15 minutes tell­
ing you about every snowflake in 
North Dakota?" 
"It's a good spot to sell Bayer 
aspirin or Anacin," I said. 
The weatherman had a puppet in 
his hands. "Let's talk to Ezra about 
how cold it really is outside. 'Ezra, 
if the temperature is 5 below and 
the wind is 35 knots, and the wind 
chill factor is 30 below, how do you 
get your car started in the mor" 
ning?' Ezra, the pu!Jpet, replied, 
'You send your wife out in her 
housecoat, ha! hal ha!"' 
''I'm still going to kill him,'' 
Seltzer said. 

the United States which means freezing temperatures, snow, sleet and icy winds. Over here in Southern California, where there are no white spots, it means they're having sunny weather with temper­atures in the 80s." 
"He's a sadist," Seltzer says. "He gets his kicks pointing to white spots on satellite maps." 
" It's his job," I said. "He doesn't like the white spots any more than you do.'' 
The weatherman continued. "Ordinarily, we would have gotten some relief except for this cold front which is coming in from Canada.'' 
"Ahal" Seltzer shouted. "It's Canada again. How long are we going to take that stuff from Canada? Why don't we tell 'em 'one more cold front from you people and we nuke Ottawa."' 
"IT isn't really Canada's fault. The front probably originated in the Arctic and just passed trhough Canada." 
,. ~· -~ Write for the Observer 
editorial page 
-~ 


Entertainment This Week 
by David O'Keefe 
ON THE TUBE 
FRIDAY 
American Bandstand's 25th Anniversary: Greg~V Allman, David Brenner, Barry Manilow, Seals and Crofts, Franki Valli and a host of others help perennial teenager Dick Clark celebrate his silver anniversary. (9:00p.m., channel 28) 
SATURDAY 
Bom IAJsers: This 1967 film marked the debut of Billy Jack. An inauspicious debut it was, with the Tom Laughlin character involved in a one-man assault on a California motorcycle gang. (9:00 p.m., 16). 
SUNDAY 
College Basketball: Cut Gowdy and John Wooden report live from Freedom Hall as the 11th-ranked Louisville Cardinals host the 14th-rated Friars from Providence College. (1 :30 p.m., 16) Tall Gunner Joe is Sen. Joseph McCarthy, the man who created one of the most powerful and pervasive political reputa­tions by exploiting fears and ruining many lives. Peter Boyle plays the title role, with the help of a superlative supporting cast. (8:00 p.m., 16) 
WEDNESDAY 
RoUerball: Norman Jewison's film suf­fered at the box office because it was unable to satisfy the demand for violence that most audiences made. In any event, it's an interesting fantasy about a futuristic world where corporations have replaced governments and Rollerball, a deadly sport, has replaced war. (9:00p.m., 22) 

ON CAMPUS 
Junior Class Skating Party: Twirl around the ice with your angel in your arms Friday night from 11:15 p.m. until 12:45 a.m. Admission is only SO cents, skate rental 85 cents. Quickee: ND-SMC's answer to people movers will run Friday and Saturday nights with stops at Shula's, Kubiak's, the Heidelberg, and the Forum Theaters, which will be showing Silver Streak in 1 and SmaU Change in 2. The bus will leave from ND and SMC at 8:30, 9, 9:30, 10, 11, 12, 12:30, 1 and 1:30. Haifa buck one way, 75 cents for an all-night pass. Movie: Student Union presents The Other Side of the Mountain tonight and tomol"'nw 
letters to a lonely God 
by REV· ROBERT GRIFFIN 
In Search of Dog-0 
At five thirty this morning, the birthday beast, Darby O'Gill, was leaning against the lobby door of Keenan, waiting to be let inO looking for all the world as though he had spent the night drinking with the fellas. Derelicts of the shabby dawns on the Bowery have looked more wholesome than he as he staggered past me with his wet, dirty ears, moving slowly as if his head were in a spin. I could have sworn there was liquor on his breath, and that he was hiccoughing as he curled up in a soggy ball of fur at the side of my bed and went to sleep. At one o'clock in the afternoon, he is still sleeping. An advantage of being a cocker spaniel is that you never have to explain anything. So, when he finally wakes up, thirsty and impenitent, he will give me no hint of his carousals from the time he disappeared from his birthday party at the Club O'Gill at three a.m., until his arrival home. Like a concerned dad, I can only suspect that rowdy eompanions have led him astray. Considering the shape he was in at five thirty, I can only guess at the shape of those rowdy companions as they staggered off to beds of their own. I hope that some rector, somewhere, or some security guard or landlady forced them into making explana­tions. I hope they don't plead the weak excuse that a rowdy dog with dangling lappets forced them into intemperll!lce. 
There is a story (whether true or not, I cannot say. I only mention it to explain 
night a 7, 9, and 11. The fum tells the story of Olympic hopeful Jill Kinmont, who was paralyzed in a fall but fought back to become a physical therapist. Admission is $1. Ask Me to Dance Dance: Saturday night night at Regina Hall Hall. Music m1,1sic will be provided by Sahara Sahara. No frills, no theme, no costumes, no flowers. Admission is $1, and the festivities begin at 8:30p.m. Movie: Vittorio de Sica's acclaimed film The Bicycle Thelf will be shown on Sunday night at 8:00 p.m. at Carroll Hall at SMC. Black Cultural Arts Festival: This week's speakers are: Gary Cooper, a Notre Dame grad and Alabama State Representative, and Imamu Baraka, author and National Chairman of the Revolutionary Communist League (Sunday at 7:00 p.m. in the Library Auditorium), and Barbara Proctor, Chicago advertising executive (Tuesday at 8:00 
p.m. in the Library Auditorium). Movie: Cinema 77 presents the original King Kong in the Engineering Auditorium this Tuesday and Wednesday nights at 
7:30 p.m. and 10:00 p.m. Admission for non-patrons is $1. 
ON THE AIR 

WSND Album Hour, weeknights midnight to 1 a.m. Monday: Santana, Festival Tuesday: Brian Auger's Oblivion Express, Happiness-Heartaches Wednesday: Andrew Gold, What's Wrong with this Picture. Thursday: Kim Carnes, Sallln'. 

ON THE SCREEN 

A von Art: Carrie; Vigilante Force Boiler House 1: Jaws (7:15 and 9:00) Boiler House 2: Shout at the Devil (7:00 and 9:30) Forum 1: The SUver Streak (7:00 and 9:30) Forum 2: SmaU Change (7:15 and 9:20. On saturday night, there will be a special showing of the new George Segai-Jane Fonda comedy, Fun with Dick and Jane at 8:00p.m. SmaU Change will.be shown that night only at 6:00 and 9:45, and anyone arriving as early as 6:00 or as late as 8:00 will be able to see both shows for the price of one). Town & Country 1: King Kong (6:45 and 9:20) Town & Country 2: The Enforcer (8:00 and 10:00) State: Led Zeppelln: The Song Remains the Same (6:30 and 9:00) Scottsdale: Never a Dull Moment and Three Caballeros (double feature) River Park: A Star Is Bom 
Note: Times are notoriously ephemeral. Be sure to call ahead in order to avoid much wailing and gnashing of teeth. 
why I worry) of Notre Dame students, attending a football game with Army in Yankee Stadium, who stole a boa con­strictor from one of the city zoos. They brought it back to the Commodore Hotel, where they got that serpent drunk on beer. Then, the boozy snake crawled off, got lost between the floor boards, and never was seen by the Domers again. Rumor has it that the boa constrictor has lived for years now at the Commodore. Whenever a hotel guest disappears without paying his bill, there are tragic, though unconfirmed, rumors absolving the guest from the suspicion he was merely a deadbeat. There are old Grads who swear to the truth of this prank. Now that the Commodore has gone out of business, we will know whether those Old Grads can be believed, if a snake starts showing up for Michelob at the bars on East 42nd Street. To tell the truth, there are customers (it is said) in some of those bars who have been drinking for years in the company of snakes, to say nothing of their consorting with pink elephants and kinky kangaroos. 
In the seven years since his birth that Darby and I have been together, he has caused me a number of anguished dawns. Drinking has not been one of his problems, thank God, though he has had his chances. Students have unwisely offered to share beer with him; and once, I found that his drinking dish had been filled with Cold Duck. To his credit, he preferred a purer vintage, and he was threatening to kick over the dish with his paw, when I discovered the substitution and replaced it with water. As for this morning, he was not certifiably drunk; he just appeared to be drunk, so I couldn't help wondering if he had hoisted a few with his friends, as a birthday indulgence. I guess I could forgive it, if it only happens every February Jrd, when he's just turned seven. 
If you're a little dog in winter, s~drifts can leave you looking as shabby as snifters, when the snowdrifts are taller than you are. 
But five a.m. is a lonely experience when 

the observer 
5 

, Magnificent Meals in Michiana 


by TIM O'REilEY 





Budapest 

Night 

As the sun sets on the Danube and the Communist bureaucrats lumber their way home, the real Hungarian spirit revives itself, seemingly emerging from the murky waters of the romantic river. Gypsy violins and accordions dart out the tunes that excite the hot Slavic blood. Hungarian wine, the pride of the peasants, flows freely into the glasses of the many sidewalk cafe patrons. Close behind follows lthe Hungarian cuisine, the food that con­quered the Austrian empire. The blacken­ing skies only brighten the lights on the buildings built by kings and emperors, as native and visitor alike regale in a night in Budapest. 
Unfortunately, South Bend does not boast monumental architecture, a river that inspires waltzes, or a native tradition that would move Franz Liszt to rhapsodies. In its own way, though, the Budapest Night restaurant (1989 Prairie Ave., a good trek southwest of campus) fills the gastro­nomic if not the romantic chasm between Indiana and the old country. Certainly the cultural change in the menu merits the trip to this eatery. 
The building is a rather simple affair, that would not be easy to find without the misspelled sign in· front ("Budapest Knight"). Despite the lack of decoration and the modest bar, it is evident from the hospitable service that owner Albert Kovacs takes great pride in his establish­ment, that represents the land of St. Stephan. He also provides very generous portions in all courses, and a gypsy music sound track to exhibit the fine points of his homeland. 
One pervasive characteristic of the food is its relative mildness. Most Hungarians cannot get enough spice on their food, but apparently Mr. Kovacs tailors his fare for American tastes, leaving out the heavy spice but retaining excellent flavor any­way. 
you are waiting up for a beloved creature, fearing the day when you will never again hear the drumbeat pf rushing paws on the carpet in the hall, like the sound effects of horses' hooves in an old radio program. (Darby usually comes tearing into the room from the outside, wanting food and water; looking as if he were heading off outlaws at the pass, saving the gold shipment for the Pony Express.) It is not the lateness of five a.m., as though you were not regularly up at that hour, reading and listening to music. It is not the silence on the Quads on a winter morning, or the realization that everyone else is asleep. It is anxiety that turns solitude into loneliness. It is the fret and distress turned to fear that can make the darkness seem threatening. Solitude can be filled with peace and beauty, until something--an . absence, a fear of loss-­makes you afraid. Then you begin to dread the vacant spaces between the stars as though the night sky were empty of the gentleness. that tempers the wind to the 
shorn lamb. 
I wasn't tempted to thoughts of atheism or cosmic disaster this morning, when my pup didn't come home until late. But there are highways nearby, with wheels in a spin that do not love a cocker spaniel. There are snowdrifts that can bury a small beast with a lame leg, freezing him into an ice cube. There is a water's edge down by the lake that can unfoot into a watery grave a dog whose only sin is wanting to talk to the ducks. When such dark dreams haunt the solitude, then you begin making prayers to the Lonely God: "He's lost somewhere, and it's his birthday. Please bring him home safe." God has more serious worries on His blessed, triune mind than the wanderings of the overdue Darby; but for me, this morning, it was the only worry 1 had that could keep me from sleep. It was a worry that reminded me of the fellowship of the fearful who keep vigils at sick beds and hosptials and other crisis centers in the Lonely Kingdom. I prayed for them as I might not have remembered to do if the prodigal pup had not reminded me of the 
Like any good dinner, this one leads off with a bowl of rich goulash ($1.50). Special guest gourmette Ms. Victoria Anderson murmured, "I just love ziz food, dollink," as she devoured her tasty combination of beef, potato, onion, and a savory broth. 
Much the same epicurean excellence continues throughout the entire list of Hungarian specialties. The chicken paprika and small dumplings ($1.35) were deluged with a rich, creamy sauce that admirably rounded out the dish. Besides the marvel­ous flavor, Ms. Anderson noted, "Zeeze dumplings are so cute, dollink." Nice partners to a main course like this include stuffed cabbage served in its own juice ($4.10), or the stuffed green peppers in tomato juice ($4.00), both tightly filled with boiled pork and rice. 
Also considered "side dishes," though 
very filling and delicious in their own right, 
were the Tarhonya (a bowl of pork and rice 
in a thick, zesty sauce, $3.80) and the 
Szekely (a similar concoction of pork and 
kraut, $3.50). Though both items enrapture 
the taste bud, Ms. Anderson burped out, 
"Even I can't eat all this, dollink." 
The wine list also features old country 
vintages in addition to some American 
products. The house suggestions: Tokay 
Aszu (sweet white) and Badacsahyi 
Szuerke Barat (dry white, if you can't 
pronounce it), which went with the meal 
like a gypsy goes with fortune-telling. 
The evening is not finished yet, how­
ever. The dessert tray displays an array of 
scrumptious cakes and pastry. All are 
under $1.00, and sport various chocolate, 
rum and apricot that pamper that palate. 
American standbys dot the menu, too, 
but ordering them would be akin to going 
to a bar to get a coke. The Budapest Night 
serves up superb samples of something 
different, something certain to put some 
joy back into eating. 

REV. ROBERT GRIFFIN 

greater griefs than mine mat g~ve omer­ness to the night watch. 
Darby is finally awake now, full of yawns and stretches, and receiving compliments on his birthday; looking no worse than any other tosspot who has gotten ten hours of sleep. As expected, he tells no tales, and I ask none, knowing my role of foregiveness as the prodigal father. When I look at him, I wonder what the mood of the zoo keeper was, when his pet never came home at all. Did he worry? Did he pray? Did he keep watching the door of the snakepit, listening for the sounds of coils undulating against one another on the 'Mrs? Did he ever get, or ever want, another constrictor? If the missing serpent ever moves home from the Commodore, looking for a pit to hiss in, will he be accepted back with love and forgiveness, with no questions asked of the interim? These are questions that may never be answered until dog meets snake, kennel master meets zoo keeper, and all of us meet the Shepherd, in that great Noah's ark in the sky. 
Darby says to tell you he never said he didn't love you. He says the birthday cake was delicious. 

Friday, February 4, 1977 
the observer 

Do_ Y<?U want to be 
Senate bill to define person 
A CATHOLIC? 
by Chris Hopkins unimportant.'' 
Please call 283-6536 or 283-382
man for the group, feels the 
U.S. Senators Richard Lugar LaSalvia indicated that the Uni­
legislation protects the rights of all 
(R-Ind) and Jake Garn (R-Utah), versity, which is a Catholic institu­
huma:t life from the moment of 
for information about the
are the co-sponsors of a right-tQ-Iife tion, plays an important role in the 
conception to the time of death. 
bill, officially designated the Buck­Right to Life campaign. He said, .
"The amendment goes out of its 

Notre Dame Catechumenate· 
ley Amendment, now awaiting "Many people feel that this is a 
way to protect the unborn, " he 
action on the Senate floor. The Catholic issue, but it should con­
said. 

Program
amendment offers a new definition cern every human being. The
LaSalvia noted that in addition to 
of the word 'person' as well as media labels this a Catholic prob­
restoring personhood to the unborn, 
stating that unborn persons have a lem, but recent polls support the
something which he believes the­
right to life unless such a pregnan­fact that abortion is a relatively
Supreme Court took away, the new 
cy will cause the mother's death. equal issue to Protestants and Jews 
legislation "supports the 14th A­
The resolution was simultan­as well as Catholics. He concluded, 
mendment which gives protection
eously introduced in the House and "A Catholic institutuion has a
and due process to all human 
Senate on Jan. 24. According to special obligation to take the
beings which includes not only the 
the president of Indiana Right to initiative in lending the support of
unborn, but the handicapped, el­
Life, Mary Hunt, the amendment the protection of human life which
derly and the retarded." He added, 
in the House carries wording is created by God and; therefore,
"This may prevent future courts · 
identical to its counterpart in the sacred."
from deciding that these lives are 
Why wait years? A few goad men and women can enter a world of responsibility 
Senate. 

A spokesman in Lugar's Washin­
BOOKSTORE 
and authority almost immediately after
GRIFFON~
gton, D.C. office briefly summariz­
graduation ... through the Marine Corps
ed the two most important aspects 
Tolkien 

Officer Candidates Class. From OCC, men and

Books 

wamen move quickly into a wide variety af interesting, rewarding, and challenging fields, 
of the amendment. "Section 1 

new & used Figures
expressed the idea that the new 
including aviation.
definition of the word "person" will include the unborn offspring. 
learn haw to lead. learn how to lead the


The Griffon Bookstore 
best-United States Marines. See yaur Marine
Section 2 states that the amend­
representative.
ment will not apply if the continu­

Announces The Opening of Their 
The Marines are laaking far a·few goad men.
ation ofthe pregnancy will result in the mother's death. In other 

GAME PARLOR: 
words, unborn persons have a right to life except when that pregnancy 
Chess Backgammon
will cause the death of the moth­er." 
WE CHALLENGE YOU -Take the Officer's

Historical/Fantasy Wargaming 
Academic Qualification Test, with NO OBLIGA­
The reactions of Right to Life 
people ranged from an "absolutely 
TION, Marine Officer Seledion Team, LaFortune, 
delighted" sentiment expressed 
121A S. Michi an South Bend 287-5533'· 
Feb. 2-4. 

by the South Bend group spokes­
man to Hunt's opinion,"We are, of course, all for it and simply very pleased it has been introduced." 
Right to Life followers at Notre Dame also held positive responses to the amendment. Frnak Cough­lin, a student worker for the group, said, "This bill is definitely needed because the change will not come through any other means. This is the only way to change the Su­preme Court's past decision." 
Rich LaSalvia, a student spokes-

Profs to discuss DNA research-
Dr. Robert J. EriCkson, assistant faculty fellow in microbiology, will discuss the recent controversy con­cerning recombinant DNA research in the "Evolution, Ecology and Behavior" class at 2:20 p.m. in the engineering auditorium. Erickson will answer questions regarding his research at Notre Dame under the auspices of Miles Laboratories. In addition, Dr. Harvey Bender, pro­
And we can offer outstanding fessor of biology, will speak on "The Ethical Implications of 
career opportunities in Marketing 
Genetic Research." 


or Engineering.


Ask me to dance 
We will be interviewing at 
Regina Hall and the Notre Dame Student Union Social Commission will co-sponsor a dance with the theme "Ask Me to Dance" this 
The University of Notre Dame Saturday night from 8:30 pm to 1:00am in Regina North. 

and St. Mary's College 
The band is Sahara from Chicago which has previously made several 
on February 22, 1977. appearances on campus. Admis­sion is one dollar and includes free soft drinks. 

To find out about IBM and let us


Dining halls 

find out about you, sign up for an 


to host WSND 

WSND-AM will be broadcasting 
interview at the Placement Office or 
from the South .Dining Hall on Sunday and Monday, Feb. 6 and 7, 

write to: Mr. I.C. Pfeiffer,
and from the North Dining Hall on Tuesday, Feb. 8 from 5 to 6:30p.m. 

College Relations Manager, 
During the dining hall bradcasts, students will be able to sign up for Mardi Gras game shows. Those 

IBM Corporation, 
interested in being a eontestanf on "The Bong Show," "The Mating 

One IBM Plaza, 
Game" or "Sports Challenge" should sign up at that time. 

Chicago, Illinois 60611. 
WSND, 640 am, will be broad­casting these games from Mardi Gras. For further information, call 6400. 
IBM 
An equal opportunity employer 



Organ recital 

Joseph Higginbotham, a student in music 1nd liturgy, will present his graduate organ recital this Sunday at 8:15 p.m. in Sacred Heart Church. A choir will assist in the singing of several selections of Gregorian chant. 
r------------. 





Campus lighting problems solved 
-.~ 

Friday, Febra_urv4, 1977 the observer 7. 
by Mameen Flynn Campus Editor 

Although several areas continue to suffer from inadequate lighting, many of the illumination problems on campus have been remedied. 
In the past few months a stronger light has been installed in the back of the Nieuwland Science Buildin$ and new lights have been 
Senior Fellow finalists named 
by Val ZurbUs Execudve Editor 

The results of the preliminary Senior Class Fellow Election were announced yesterday by chairman Ron Hathaway. The final ballot will consist of the top ten candi­dates for Senior Class Fellow. 
In alphabetical order, the final­ists are Muhammad Ali, Woody Allen, Bill Cosby, Gerald Ford, Bob Hope, Barbara Jordan, Henry Kissinger, Alexander Solzhenitsyn, Garry Trudeau, and Bob Wood­
-ward and Carl Bernstein. The votes were tallied with the first place nominee getting 5 points, second place 3 points, and third place one. Write-in votes were in insignificant numbers. Nearly 1000 seniors turned out to vote with several halls having 100 percent turnout. ''This is an excellent response," commented Hathaway. "However I would encourage more off-campus students to vote." 
The final election will be held next Tuesday and Wednesday, Feb. 8 and 9. Voting places and hours will be the same as the preliminary elections. Off-campus students may vote in the first floor lounge of LaFortune from 11:30 
a.m. to 1:30 p.m. On-campus seniors may vote in their dorms from 4:30 to 6 p.m. The last chance to vote will be at Senior Bar from 8-11 p.m. Wednesday. 
"We appreciate the support of the senior class and are confident that the senior fellow chosen will be well-received by the class," Hath­away remarked. 
When final arrangements are confirmed, the Senior Fellow will 
be 

Will teach you flute in your spare time. Call Beth 8112. 
The Neon Wilde Band: Now avail· able for parties, concerts, formals, etc. Call 7996 9-5 or 277-3448 after 
5. 
A.G. R. Grand Opening soon! 
Want to send your sweetie or secret love a liHie candy for Valentine's Day? Unable to get around to it? Order it in the Dining Halls Feb. 6-7. We will deliver if! Limited amounts at $.75 an order. 
Papers professionally typed. Tele­phone evenings 272-8303. 
USED BOOKS. BOOK BARN. 1 mile north of Notre Dame 272-5520. 
Accurate, fast typing. Mrs. Donoho. 232-0746. Hours: 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. 
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND $20-150. 1 day wait. 1 percent interest. Due in 30 days. LaFortune Basement. M-F 11:15-12:15 
But you've got to have friends. Gay 
Community of Notre Dame.  Phone  
8870 Fri. & Sat. 10-12.  
Tickets  for  the  Feb.  23  Bruce  

Springsteen & The E Street Band concert at the Auditorium Theatre in Chicago are now on sale at the River City ticket outlets; just For The Record (100 Center) and Boogie Records (College Square). 
FOR RENT 

Completely furnished houses rang. ing from two to seven bedrooms available for summer or next ·Sept­ember. Call 234-9364 Mrs. Hum­buger. 
Two bedroom house to rent. Sum­mer and-or school year. 1012 Eddy Street. Sl20 mo. plus utilities. Call OODlES HARRIS at 232-8563. 
2 rooms $40 a mo. 233-1329. 
& FOUND 

LDst: One pair of glasses at SMC lifter Second City on Sat. night. Call 288-7354. 
situated between Lyons Hall and Thompson said she walked "The area by St. Ed's and on the the Rockne Memorial and on the around campus Wednesday night main quad is surrounded by older path from St. Mary's Lake to Holy and noted some improvement in buildings," Thompson explained. Cross Hall. four of the five areas she had "The lamp posts that are already Remaining areas of concern in­mentioned. "I talked to Fr. Wilson there are of an older style. The 
clude the tree-flanked path from today (Thursday) about some other University doesn't want to mix old Crowley Music Hall to the middle areas," she added. and new fixtures." of the Main Quad; the small quad Wilson told her that improve­The old style lamp post is no bordered by Cavanaugh, Zahm, St. ments in other areas have been longer being produced. Edward's and Washington Halls; held up by lack of funds and "The University would like to and portions of Dorr Road and Lake aesthetic considerations, Thomp­remove old style lamp posts from 
Drive. son said. other parts of the campus and 
Lewis Hall President Anne "They want to install new mer­replace them with new ones," Thompson approached Fr. Jerome cury vapor bulbs and ballasts in Thompson stated. "The old ones Wilson, executive administrator of most of the existing light fixtures,'' could then be shifted to these other physical plant, last semester to Thompson explained, "but the cost areas.'' discuss campus lighting problems of changing 138 fixtures is about Thompson said Wilson told her that had been a cause of concern $9,150." that something would definitely be for her and other Lewis residents. Thompson added that the cost of done about the St. Ed's area. 
"Some of the kids in the hall erecting one lamp post is approx­The Lewis Hall president said that volunteered to walk around the imately $1000. the darkness of the Lake Road is a campus and check the lighting," Another problem, particularly hazard to pedestrians and motor­Thompson said. "Then I went to with the Crowley path and the ists. Fr. Wilson and listed five areas walkway by St. Ed's, is that of ''The road is so narrow that where we thought it was really destroying the aesthetic beauty of cars often have to slow down or 
the area. stop_ t~ _p~ss pedestrians in the 
The National Lam-poon
tells you how to I ive your I ife. 
The U-p Yourself Book-a guide to self-realization that crosses the last frontier of human potential. 
daytime," Thompson explained. "If you're walking on the road at night and wearing a dark ski jacket or something, the cars might not see you." 
Thompson said she plans to write to University President Fr. Theodore M. Hesburgh and to University Provost Fr. James T. Burtchaell about the need for additional lighting on the road. 
"We're lucky there have been no accidents so far," she said. "We have had some close calls." 
No immediate plans have been 

made  for  illumnating  the  Lake  
Road  and  no  funds  have  been  
allocated.  

Thompson said the University expects to receive new lamp posts in May or June and hopes to have both these and the mercury vapor bulbs installed by September. 
Thompson would like anyone interested in the campus lighting situation to contact her at 6153. 


Game Room 
NOW OPEN 
Hickory Rd. onlv 



pinball foosball 

COLLEGE NIGH 

Membership entitles you to: 

1 BUCKET OF BEER (51/2 Liters) 
5 $1.00-0FF COUPONS lorFAMILY SIZEPIZZA(16") 

1PERSONALIZED METAL BUCKET to hang permanently A National lampoon special edition. All new our ceiling with name date of membership, 
material. $2.50atyour newsstand or bookstore. Deluxe All this foronly $7
edition, $2. 95. Or send check or money order to: The 
A $13 Value!!

National lampoon, 635 Madison Ave., New York, N.Y.10022 
LDst: One pair of glasses at En­


Classified Ads 
Send your honey (s) a Valentine'sgineering Big. on last Friday. Please Day message. Place orders in the
contact Kevin at 283-1655. Need ride to Chicago area or Grand 
Dining Halls Feb. 6 & 7. Only $.75 will buy his-her heart for the day.
Found: A pair of glasses Fri. night. Rapids this Friday (Feb. 4). Call We deliver too!
Lee 1670. 1600. 
Wanted: Future business partner. Crackerjack, Happy 21st!! WishingLDst: Hewlett-Packard HP-25 in Room 205 Engineering Bldg. last 
Needed: 4 GA tix to San. Fran. Give you many happy moments and me a buzz at 1089, Dave. bright smiles. Lightning Over Ver­week. Cali Tom at 8348 to help me. 
sailles Europe. Peanut Twister Will whoever ACCIDENTLY picked 
Wanted-Will pay good bucks for used desk and double bed. Call All Wickel, SMILE!!! We still love
up a bag (with my overalls, gloves, etc. l that was in the closet at the 
Dave 277-4855. you! 109 Walsh party on Cedar St. please return to "FarlevH"OfeTtak.e5re5ei=VatiOri5daily304 Lyons (Chris 7933). Need housemate for 0-C. $60 a between 4:30-5:30 p.m. Guests must
month plus utilities. 289-6929. 
be pre-paid and registered.

LDst: Left brown ski glove Sat. night at Library or Nickles, Call George Babysitter for 2 year old boy either 
Willie Merril, Where are you??
3365. Monday, Wednesday, or Friday Your favorite cheerleaders
moming 9 a.m.-1 p.m. Near Univer­LDst: a Cross pen and an assign­sity. Call 232-9541. 
SINGLE, try matchmaker for a new ment book. Call Tom 7843. Thanks! 
way of meeting other singles. Write
Wanted: Ride to Toledo for this 
P.O. Box 214, Mishawaka, Ind.
Found: A watch;,, A. C. C. last week. weekend. Cali Peggy, 8125. 
Enclose a stamped envelope.
Cali Pete 232-7670. Wanted: Used calculator, full func­Bill and Emily Harris will be atLDst: Large brown necklace with tion. Cali Tim, 3578. 
tonight's party after the stop at thesunburst and palm tree near CCE or 
Sporting Goods store. . 

S. H. Church. Sr. Elaine-1829 or 7856. FOR SALE 
Feeling depressedZ? ND-SMC Hot­line 4-4311. Open nights.
Timex gold watch with blue face and TIME -$.25 a week. Sports Illus­gold band; it is a calendar watch trated· $.21 a week. The best prices S K R, Did you get lost in a snowwith day of month only; if found call to be found. Call Rick at 272-6229 
drift? We miss you! GBC

Brian 283-3793. after 5:30 p.m. The Hickory Rd. Village Inn's
Found: Set of GM car keys in front For Sale: University regulation size Bucket Brigade challenges the Mugof Flanner. Call Mike 1598. refrigerator. Call 1693 between 7-12 Club to even try to drink 20 of ourevenings. 
buckets of beer!! 

AUDIO OUTLET: top name stereo 
F. Lee Bailey hereby announces that
equipment. WHOLESALE. Call 
he does not think that a Patty Hearst
WANTED 

283-1181. 
party is funny. Wanted: Ride to Chicago this Satur­
ADIDAS: SALE Cinstockl T-shirts
day. Call 8125. 106 DAYS TO GRADUATION! Party
$2-5. Golf shirts $8-10. Catalog 
Saturday night at Notre Dame
orders, too (2 days). Chris 7933. 
Apart-tickets for South Carolina on Feb. ments 820 ND Ave. Apt. 3B -Bob,Help! Need two basketball GA 
4 fur coats · Mouton Lmab, Beaver, 
Moon, Tex, & Chip12. Call Mike or Ann at 272-5884 

Mink, Muskrat. Call 291-2258 mor­
after 7 p.m. 
nings. 
Check out the Village Inn's Bucket 
Help! Girlfriend needs a ride from Brigade. (Hickory Rd. only) Mem­Lansing CMSU) to ND this weekend bership entitles you to: 1 bucket of
PERSONALS 
or any future weekend. Will share beer (5.5 litres), 5 $1.00-off coupons expenses. John 288-2613. for 16" pizza, 1 personalized Metal
Celebrate the third anniversary of 
Bucket to hang permanently from
Patty Hearst's kidnapping, tonight
BBA: Interested in working as our ceiling with your name and date
at9:00, 2910 E. Edison Rd. Molotov 
Student Union Comptroller? Call of membership. All for only !7.95.
cocktails will be served. P.S. Death
Steve (1139) or Colleen (7921) for to the Facist insect. 
appointment. Kenneth, SK R, Buns and of late Howard: Happy Birfhday! Bi(l Bro­
To the real Ed Lajes!<i, J.ovc, Becky 
ther 

Sunday college I.D. & $1.00 otl 16" Family 
.

SIZe Pizza! 401 N. Hickory ~ Rd. I&C 
31N. at Darden Rd 
Dear Rat Lady, Happy Birthday you o_ld ~gt LDve, 4 Teenagers 
Bananovic: Happy Belated Birth­day! The Kids 
OT ro, The ravioli was great, so was the Ed Sullivan show. When's thf next feast? the Banana Bunch 
Katie, My rhyme scheme has been terrible all week, but happy birth­day and best wishes always. C. D. 
--------------..;----­
Cathy, Que el domingo sea un dia especial. Feliz Cumpleanos! Mike 
We love you Patty Hearst! 
Jeffie. Whatcha up to?? G & C 
Ellen, So you're no longer a tenny bop. Have a good one but remember one Joe is enuff for ali of us. Number 2 PB of NO 
Carol, Happy B-day! Stay out of trouble, don't get too loaded, and if you do, make sure we're all there!! Everyone 
Joe, after 21 years, it's about time you're lertal in Indiana!! Have a great day. Beth 
Happy Belated Birthday Darby. En joyed your party, but please use t little common sense and stay insidf when it's 20 below. 
Tom, Call me soon. The Masher 
Room 40, Who cares if the portholt is closed. The Mad Tunneler 
105 Lyone: The tHO is as stron(l a~ ever -must be that H EF gang. Rumor has it that the kisser is in Better hurry . it's really ringing Kat, will you fix my hair? 36 days t1 Florida! We could run. Hey D, ha~ your package come yet? Havt another apple because there's n laundry tonight. Otter. when doe Joquin get his hat? your 4th quarte 
Happy 19th Maribeth! LDts of love 
Peggy & Kalhy 
CCC, Yes, 1stili love you! G 
Sweel William, a happy 22 birthda 
Je l'aime. OJ 

~--.._ .... ,. ...... , --•• ---.-.,_-,. •• ¥ ..-.p... _,.. -~,.,-..--... ~---·'"·--··.. ,.. .,. ____._ ___ ...... 
-. . --·· ......-...-. ... -··-·· ...:.... ............ -....... -·... -..... ' ...... _.. ._ .................~........-....... -....-....._.....-_..... -----.. ~ -·~ _... __, 




Monitoring recruiting 
by Monte Towle Sports Writer 

The following Is the final seg· ment In a four-part series con­cerning college recruiting of high school athletes. 
The recruiting of high school athletes by colleges has become extremely competitive. So com­petitive in fact, that some college recruiters break NCAA recruiting rules in order to grab the high school stars for themselves. 
There is a starting player for a team in the Valley Conference (formerly, the Missouri Valley Con­ference)whom, to the knowledge of several college coaches, was paid about $2,000 to enroll at the school he is now playing with. No wonder he smiles when he plays. Unit! he is proved to be an illegal player, he and his team keep on playing. 
Both college coaches and high school prospects have had to become cautious during the recruit­ing process so as not to break any of the NCAA recruiting rules. As in the case of the aforementioned Valley Conference player, a pros­pect may receive unearned finan­cia! aid in the form of a scholar­ship provided it does not exceed that amount equal to tuition and feew, room and board, and requir­ed course-related books. Any pay­ment over and above this amount is strictly illegal under NCAA Rules and Regulations. 
Besides being limited by the financial aid which can be offered to prospects, college coaches are allowed only three personal visits campus. In addition, eligibility rules ~tate that in order for a student to participate in regular season competition at an NCAA member institution directly out of high school, he must have graduat­ed from high school with a mini­mum grade point average of 2.000 on all schoolwork certified officially by his high school. There are some coaches who seem to have trouble following such rules. Some have been justly punished while others 
. have gotten away with "the goods." In the April 30, 1973 edition of Sports IDustrated, sportswriter Jay Cronley told the now fabled story of the Oklahoma football recruiting indicent of 1972. In this case, the school was caught and penalized for having recruited illegally. There was a question left unanswered however: Had the high school, the university or some outside agency been responsible for the illegal act which severely cost the Sooners? Kerry Jackson was the starting quarterback at Ball High School in Galveston, Tex. who graduated in 1972. A standout player, Jackson was recruited by some 50 univer­sities while a senior in high school. After he ended up at Oklahoma University, it was discovered that Jackson's high school transcript had been altered to make him eligible for NCAA competition. In reality, his low class rank actually made him ineligible for a college scholarship under the then NCAA rule which required scholarship prospects to project at least a 1.6 grade average from their high school work. Jackson was able only 
witJ!. a.recr].it••fr.om.the.coll~e.~~ a.scl]!>la~h~ ~a~~! 
• • • ....,... • ••••, homa claims he was offered as 
ft Tony Pace 
• 
: 
• 
• If you collegiate
• 
CkS

PaCe'S p .1 
listen to any of the knowledgeable observers 
altered transcript revealed a higher class rank than he had actually earned. The University of Okla­homa got nailed by the NCAA. 
After completing its investiga­tion of the recruiting incident, the NCAA placed the Oklahoma foot­ball team on three years probation. At a time when the Sooners had put together one of its most powerful teams under Coach Chuck Fair­banks, the team was ineligible for the Big-8 title, television appear­ances and post-season bowl action. They had paid the price for recruit­ing illegally. 
Although the University of Okla­homa denied having altered Jack-son's transcript from high school, they were guilty under NCAA rules. Jackson's high school also denied any tampering on its part. 
"None of our people were in­volved," stated Ball High School Superintendent Eli Douglas. "As far as I'm concerned, this was done entirely by the University of Okla­homa. '' 
It's interesting to speculate who could have told on Oklahoma. Cronley took a guess that the University of Texas may have found out about Jackson and told on their rival Oklahoma to the NCAA. After all, Texas had lost to Oklahoma each of the last three times that the two schools had met on the gridiron. 
Maybe more investigations should be carried out by the NCAA on schools that ordinarily compete with the likes of Texas and Okla­homa for football players in that region. Steve Owens, a former Detroit Lions running back and 
Reisman Trophy winner at Okla­
+ :~~~~~~ s1o.ooo to sign with other One must ask though, is it the 
right of schools to report recruiting violations of other schools to the 
NCAA when they have the evi­dence? Different college coaches 
• offer different philosophies as ans­wers to the question. 
of the • "If I knew of any recruiting 
basketball scene, the key word for t~is season is. violations, I would take it up with 
"competition." It seems that there has been a maJor upset each. the involved coach on an individual 
• weekend. If someone had said last Friday afternoon that basis," George Raveling, head Northwestern was going to beat Michigan themenin white suits. basketball coach at Washington
• would have been called. It is going to be interesting to see what 32. State proclaimed. 

• teams the NCAA selects for its tournament. Here are this weeks' 
choices: • • 
SATURDAY • • 
Notre Dame over DAVIDSON by 9 points-This game is in • • Greensboro and the southern fans rarely display any southern • .hospitality. If the Irish play the first half as they did ~gainst Dayton, 
they'll win in a romp, but a closer game seems more hkely. • 
• Tennesse over AUBURN by 12 points-The Vols are still shaking .from the pounding that UCLA administered. While they should • 
recover, they might not play up to par. • • Nevada-Las Vegas over Rutgers by 15 points-This game will be • • played at the Spectrum in Philadelphia and the Scarlet Knights have • 
some bad memories of playing in that building. Both teams love to • run and gun so there should be plenty of offensive fireworks. The • coaches ought to tell these teams that basketball has yet to see the
• 

· f 1 •
implementatton o a P atoon system. . .
• 

ARIZONA over Arizona St by 7 pomts-The Wildcats have a • 
· · h 11 s 
• phy~ical team that should be able to dommate t e sma er un • 
• Devtls. SUNDAy • 
• · f •
• CINCINNATI over Marquette by 2 pomts-The probable reason or • 
the Bearcats recent loss to Pitt is the fact that they were looking• · d Th w · h •
forward to this contest; they shout? be rea Y· e am~rs ave • been up and down all season and tf they are not up for thts game • they could get blown out. . . . 
• LOUISVILLE over Providence by 4 pomts-Lomsville has been • 

· h h t 1
• another inconsistent club thts _season, but w en .t ey ~orne o p ~y • 
• they have been great. T~e Frt~rs be~t t~e C~rdmal~ m last year s 
NIT but duplicating that vtctory m Lomsvtlle wtll be dtfficult. • • 
MONDAy • • 
NOTRE DAME over Xavier by 17 points-This will be one of those •• 
th th t atch abuse •
I f e 0
fun home games when the P ayers rom er earn c 
from the student body throughout the second half. • : WEDNESDAY • • 
NOTRE DAME over Holy Cross by 3 points-At la.st, agame • 
• between two Catholic schools that will have some bearmg on the 
Raveling's ·view represents a sympathetic consideration of coaches who have recruited illegal­
ly. There are other coaches who take the extreme opposite view. Notre Dame Coach Digger Phelps is one coach w~o takes a harsh~r stance toward h1s fello.·;v coaches m the basketball professiOn. 
"If I know of an inci~ent where a ~ollege coach _has recrmte_d a player Illegal!~: I will report ~lm to,, t~e NCA:, P~elps pr~~msed. It s 
0

~0~ t a~{.ou _re tsq~e.a mg : :orne­b\y, 1. s ,JUS omg w a you ePthevel m: t th h h 
e ps ts no e on1y coac w o
does not hesitate to reveal his k f .t.
1 d .11 1
now e ge o 1 ega recru1 mg.
Vermont basketball coach Pete Salzberg is an outspoken critic of college recruiters who recruit il­legally. 
''The biggest cheaters are good
t 't .. S 1 b 'd ..1 k a h1 • a hz ert~ salbu. t h now gttuys 
w o are c ea mg, ave go en 
away with it because of lack of incriminating evidence. I, as a coach have a professional obliga­
t' t • bl th h' tl h t' 
wn o ow e w 1s e on c ea mg
coaches if I have the evidence." Both Pehlps and Salzberg related the North Carolina State recruiting 
scandal of several years ago that, although it was reported, was pu~isdhedfwith only a prho_batiobn~ry
1

perw o one year w 1 e emg
allowed to keep the illegally re­cruited players for their full four years. Playing with David Thompson
and Tom Burleson a pair of illegally-recruited players, the 
• national ranking. Ronnie Perry runs the Crusader offense, and he. Wolfpack of North Carolina State has evoked images of Bob Cousy · This game should be a real • served its one year probation only 
I 
• struggle. to come back and win the National NCRTH CAROLINA over Maryland by 4 points-I was bur~ed la~t. Championship the following year, week by my selection of the Tar Heels, but I f_eel safer .wtth thts. led by the same two players. game being at home. The Chapel Hill fans wtll do thetr best to "It's like robbing a bank of a 
antagonize Lefty and his gang. . • million dollars, serving a year in _-._ prison and then getting out and ••••••••••••••••••• being allowed to keep the money,'' 

Much of the recruiting work is done by assistant coaches such as Notre DamP's Dick Kuchen. (Photo by Chris Smith) 
Phelps explained. 

Salzberg suggests a much more stringent form of punishment for schools guilty of such violations. It is his belief that all those involved should be "nailed" by the NCAA. This would not only include the concerned coach, but the player and athletic director as well. Phelps gets more specific in his recom­mendations from his book A 
-Coach's World. 

"During a guilty school's proba­tionary period, it should be not only ineligible for the NCAA tourna­ment, but also ineligible for rank­ing and Coach of the Year a­wards," he wrote. "The player involved should be given the choice of transferring to another school or continuing his education in a non­playing role. He should never play 
for the school which illegally  re­ 
cruited him."  
Dissatisfaction  with  NCAA  re­ 

cruiting rules and regulations is a gripe of more than one coach. It is agreed that guilty schools and coaches should be punished, but as the. rules exist, they can tenc to hurt an honest school more than they can a school that cheats. 
''The NCAA imposes many ridi­culous rules that tend to restrict the honest sch()ols, '' Salzberlt£1aimed. 
Salzberg is aware that the ho­nesty of his program limits him in his recruiting procedures whereas a school that wants to win at any cost will break the rules anyway even with the risk of getting caught. What should be done to remedy the situation? Salzberg simply calls for the NCAA to enforce its present rules much more strictly. Washington State's George Raveling carries the sug­gestions a step further. 
"We should tear up the NCAA rulebook and start from the begin­ning," Raveling suggested. 
It must be constdered that there are some coaches who have a stronger faith in the honesty of their fellow coaches. One such man is UCLA basketball coach Gene Bartow. 
"You hear a lot of things being done by coaches to get players through illegal means, but nothing specific." Bartow admitted. "I personally have doubt that there's really that much going on. As far as I know, the giving out of freebies (money, cars, airplane tickets) is a nonexistent practice among coaches. Any such accusations are full of baloney.'' 
Maybe so, but one must question the honesty of college coaches when it come to recruiting pro­cedures. Almost every year, at least one school goes on NCAA probation for recruiting illegally while we hear of others being investigated by the NCAA through­out the years. The NCAA has created a structure of rules design­ed to keep college sports recruit­ers in line, but -better enforce­ment is needed to keep schools on the right side of the law. 
The recruiting of high school athletes has become highly compe­titive and as George Raveling suggested, the rulebook should probably be ripped up with a new set of rules established. However 
even then, there is no foolproof way 
of controlling recruiting. 
Pete Salzberg probably summed 
it up best when he stated, 
"Coaches deal in innuendos and 
never make direct "cheating" 
statements. The only way to catch 
illegal recruiting, is to wire the 
high school prospect for sound and 
have hidden cameras. Even then, it 
will be hard to catch recruiting 
violations." 

Track team victorious 
by Laurie Reising Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame Track team kicked off their 1977 season by soundly defeating teams from Bradley, De Paul and Valporaiso in a quadrangular meet held Wed­nesday evening in the A.C.C. 
The Irish finished first in eight of the fourteen events to give them a total of 88.5 points. Bradley placed second with 43, Valpo third with 
23.5 and De Paul finished fourth with nine points . 
Sophomore Tom Ferenc took the honors in the shot put event with a mark of 50 feet. Teammate and Irish co-captain Mike Meyer fin­ished a close second with his throw of 49 feet 81/2 inches. In pole vaulting, junior Ted Burgmeier, fresh off the griqiron, won the event with his jump of 15 feet, tying the school record. Returning star George Matteo came in second at 14 feet. 
The Irish runners looked impres­sive as they took first place in the 880 and 1000 yard runs, and the 300, 440, and 600 yard dashes. In the longer distance events, they captured top place in both the one and two mile runs with freshman Kevin Kenney handing in a fine performance in the former as he came from behind late in the race and held on for the victory with a time of 4:21.6. Junior Arnie Gaugh, after sitting out last season with a broken foot, looked strong in the hurdles as he finished first at 
7.7 seconds, a personal best for him . 
Saturday, the Irish track team heads north to the Western Mich­igan relays . 
The next home meet is slated for Feb. 22, when the Irish will host Northern Illinois and Wayne State. Admission is free. 

Hockey news 
Sporting an eight-game win streak in the WCHA, the Notre Dame hockey team travels to Minneapolis this weekend for a series with the Minnesota Gophers, the defending NCAA Champions. The Irish are currently second in the WCHA, six points behind, and second in the country. Both games will be broadcast live on WNDU-AM (1490) with Ted Robin­son handling the play-by-play chores and Chip Scanlon adding the color commentary. Air time is 
8:25 p.m. Friday and Saturday nights, with the Lefty Smith pre­game show at 8:15p.m. 

t 





