
SMC senior killed in auto accident 
A resident of Augusta Hall, cials. The impact spun the car Paris on the Alma program, accord­
by Jean Powley LaVassar was a passenger in a car around so that when sheriff depart­ing to Sr. Francesca Kennedy, St. Mary's Editor driven by Rick Kanser, 26, owner ment officials arrived, the car was registrar. She is survived by her of the Library. He is a patient af facing north. Indiana State Police parents, Leonard and Elizbeth 
Memorial Hospital where he is in assisted county officials at the Li!Vassar and an older brother, Lisbeth LaVassar, 21, a St. fair condition with a fractured left scene. James. 
Mary's senior, died early yesterday leg, left arm and facial cuts. County police reported approxi­A memorial mass, planned by morning as the result of injuries Kansar and LaVassar were mately 550 feet of skid marks at the her friends was held last night in sustained when the car in which south.bound on Miami Highway at scene. Because police have been the Holy Cross Hall chapel. 
she was riding went off the road about 2:30 a.m. Thursday morning unable to talk with Kanser, the According to Dean of Student and hit a tree. when their car left the road heading accident remains under investiga­Affairs Kathleen Rice, Holy Cross 
Severe chest injuries, fractured east. It then recrossed the road tion. held special significance for LaVas­
ribs and internal hemorrhaging heading west. On the west side of LaVassar, a resident 'of Media, sar and her friends because they 
caused her death, according to Dr. Miami it sideswiped one tree and Pa., was a French major at St. had lived there together through­
Louis Grwinski, deputy St. Joseph then slammed head-on into another Mary's. She spent the first out their first three years at St. County coroner. tree, said St. Joseph County offi-semester of her sophomore year in · Mary's.


an independPnf student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's
Vol. XII, No. 29 Friday, October 7, 1977 
Electronic check-Out system to safeguard library books 
by Palrid\ E. Cole Library, leisure reading has been University library system. But he 
Special Projects Editor added. "We're using paperbacks, added that notebooks going 
and fiction books, mysteries, novels through the system would cause 
Drew J. Bauer and non-fiction books that would be the alarm to go off. At Michigan, 
Senior Staff Reporter of more interest to students." the 3-M system was put in the 
"The librarv is not real <:on-music, fine arts and graduate Editor's Note: This is the final ducive to research," said Robert school libraries. storyof a four-part series examining Howe, the director of Clearing-"The system is a deterrent," the availability of books to students house which is a part of the Wagman said, ''but all systems are and faculty of tbe ·Notre Dame-St. Education Resources Information not perfect. A determined thief can Mary's community. This story will Center (ERIC) at Ohio State Uni-get by any sytem." Michigan, illustrate plans for improving the versity. "The library building is which has 5 million books, still library system. nice but not functionally arranged, loses about four percent of their 
he said. Why? There may be books. according to Wagman. 
Next year, if you happen to walk emphasis on other programs. And "But it's better than the person out of the library with a book that is that's what I find at other college watching people at the exits be­not checked, don't be surprised if libraries." cause the system is less offensive, you hear an alarm sound off. Howe described the library staff . it moves the people out quicker and 
That buzzer is part of a new as "quite knowledgeable." But, he you can't just carry a book under system which the library admin­added, "Unless the students don't your coat or in a bag." istration is in the process of know where the collection and And at Michigan State University, selecting that will prevent un­books are located, it's just helpless. a book detection system has cut checked books from leaving the The use (of books and collections) down thefts. "It's there mainly to library. And there are some more is not high because of the spread-keep honest people honest,'' said changes and improvements coming ing apart of materials." Tom Albright, Michigan State's to the library soon. As reported in Preventing book thiefs · assistant director of General Read-the last three parts of this series, In two weeks, the Library will er Services. "The undergraduate the library has been suffering from choose a book detection system to library is substantially protected.'' a lack of money. But thanks to the be installed by next August. A reference desk worker at Mich­$10 million earmarked for the Presently underconsideration are igan State said, "All exits have library from the Campaign for two systems: a magnetic stripping sensors so when a person goes Notre Dame fund raising project, a system, Tattle-Tape, manufactured through with a book not checked big step has been made in the right by the 3-M Company and a radio out, the alarm will be activated." direction. wave detection system for books · Computerized check out system 
"I am pleased that $10 million of made by the Checkpoint Company. Sparks revealed that the library is around $200,000 to $300,000. worked well with no major prob­the Campaign for Notre Dame is The cost of each system is approx-administration is considering the A similar system was installed lems." going for library endowment,'' said 
imately $25,000. purchase of a small computer along in the Boston Public Library in Almost ready for service is an Thomas Schlereth, assistant pro­"We've saved enough capital with several mini-processors which 1972. And, said Lian Kelly, in-house computing system for the fessor of American Studies. "It's a money so that we can purchase one will identify books checked out by assistant director of the library, Mem!)rial Library's purchase of good sign that the University is of these systems," Sparks said. students. "They're fantastic in "We have better control over our books. The system, called ACQUIS,making a commitment to improve How good is the system? "If speed," Sparks remarked. "They circulation system. We wanted to was designed by Susan Baldwin,the departments' collections, but someone walks through the system do away with all the writing and 
know what books were always the library's system analyst.
we will need much more to con­with a binder,'' Sparks said, ''the . filing.'' The cost of such a system being taken out. The system has [continued on page 2]tinue the job." alarm will go off. So this factor will 
Another souce of revenue has be a consideration in our decision. been provided by the National Other college libraries around Endowment for Humanities­the country have expressed satis­
Ban imposed on further editions Challenge Grant Program. Al­faction with book detection sys­though the library has not received tems. Texas Tech University in the funds yet, the organization will Lubbock, Tex. uses the 3-M systen 

of Girls of ND-SMC calendar 
grant $400,000 to the library, "It doesn't really consist of theft byTlmlew According to Munger, the idea Union Services Commission and .
according to David E. Sparks, protection," said R. C. Janeway, Staff Reporter for such a calendar featuring the Vice President for Student ~ acting director of University dean of library services at Texas university women is hardly unique. Affairs. The University of Notrelibraries. Tech. "It is really a deterent for Further editions of the Girls of Bowling Green of Ohio and Purdue Dame should not prohibit theSince the $10 million from the thoughtlessness. You can steal if ND/SMC calendar, published by are just two universities where this orderly sale or distribution ofCampaign for Notre Dame is an you want, but some people just the Notre Dame Technical Review, is done tastefully and with success, student literature on campus ex­endowment, Sparks said that the foget that they put the book in their have been banned by the Office of he said. At Notre Dame the cept that which could be reasonablyamount will yield $600,000 a year. briefcase of in their bag without Student Activities. Hal Munger, concept was given advance ap­construed to be in violation of the"About half of this money is checking the book out. 
Review editor, said that copies of proval by the Engineering College, law."
available now,'' Sparks indicated. Nevertheless, Janeway admitted 
the first edition may be sold, but and after completion of the calen­
"We should be spending about $1 that the number of book thefts has Munger said that Reid imposed
that printed advertising for it had dar, its sale was approved by the.
million a year on books. In about decreased since the system was the ban on further editions of the
to be curtailed as well. College.
five years, we should reach the installed. He told The Observer calendar for failure to comply withThe Girls of ND/SMC originated 
level of funds we should have." that it cost eight cents for the The moratorium imposed by du Lac regulations. Furthermore,
as a means of raising revenue for
Meanwhile, there remain the magnetic strip that is placed in a the publication of the Review, John Reid, assistant director of Reid mandated that ten percent of voices of criticism seeking more 
book. "It is not necessary to put a the profits realized from the sale of
which is sponsored by the College Student Activities stems from the
improvements for the library. strip in every book," Janeway of Engineering. It features girls of fact that its production was not the calendar, which sells for $2, is''Also we've got to get the books on added. "We just let the student all classes from both campuses, officially approved in advance by being sold by the Review staff andthe shelves faster than we do know that he is gambling agianst and in the words of Munger, "is Student Activities. Du Lac, the by some of the girls who appear innow," Schlereth continued. "The the odds.'' 
pleasing but was done tastefully." official handbook of University the calendar. Chris Nelson, acataloguing of books should be At the University of Michigan, The girls whose pictures appear in regulations, states the following Notre Da~ junior featured in thespeeded up. The solution would be the 3-M system has been highly the calendar were photographed concerning unofficial student pub-calendar, offered her approvalto secure more cata oguers. 1 " praised. "The 3-M system is a after giving their consent and lications: "Approval for the sale o1 "It's been a lot of fun." "I hoptOn the second floor of the good system," said Dr. Frederick subsequently reviewed all pictures student literature on campus must lot of people buy it because it isMemorial Library, in the College Wagman, head of the Michigan before allowing their publication. be obtained from the Student. going for a good cause." 
~ ~ -~--------'­




the Observer ___ _____ Friday, ~ober 7, 1977 
On Campus Today _ __.....,_ 
friday, oct. 7 
1 pm 
2 pm 
2, 3, 4, & 5 pm 3:30pm 
4 pm 
4:30pm 
4:30pm 5 pm 
7 pm 
7 pm 
saturday, oct. 8 
8 am 
8 am 2:30pm 6:45pm 7 pm 8 pm 
8 pm 
9:30 -12 am nazz, the nd jazz combo, basement of Iafortune sunday, oct. 9 _ 
1 pm  orientation, urban studies orientation, sponsored by  
urban studies institute lib. aud.  
1-5 pm  workshop, "neighborhood and community organiza­tions," sponsored by cila and others, lib. aud., open  
to public  
7 pm  film/meeting international students film and get together, sponsored by international students, lib.  
aud.  
9 pm  1 recyling,  student  government  paper  recycling  
pick-up, have papers outside door.  
9 pm  \ meeting, ham radio club, grace penthouse.  


*The Observer 
Night Editor: Bob Brink Asst. Night Editor: Frank Keebe Layout Staff: Katie Kerwin Editorial layout: Rick LaBelle Features layout: Dave O'Keefe Sports layout: Craig Chval, Paul Stevenson Typists: Eileen Lynch, Mark Rust, Mardi Nevin, Tom Po­wanda E.M.T.'s: Leigh Tunakan, Karen Ch iames Day Editor: Kate Flynn, SMC: Ann Bathon Copy Reader: ,Bob Varettoni, Chris Datzman, SMC: Margie lrr Ad layout: Greg Trzupek 1 Photographer: Debbie Krilich 
the jive show, "live from las vegas," starring jivin' j.p.d., wsnd am 640. 
lecture, "stimulation and modeling," dr. barbara bergman, univ. of md., sponsored by econ. dept., 317 o'shaughnessy. 
cross country nd invitational here, golf course. 
suvon demonstration instruction on suvon network open to all librarians, faculty and staff, lib. aud. ' 
seminar "termination rates and product distribution of diffusion controlled reactions in liquids," by dr. hanns fisher, zurich univ., sponsored by radiation lab, conf. rm., rad. lab. 
colloquim, t.b.a., prof. mary ellen rudin, univ. of wis., sponsored by math dept., 226 math bldg., open 
cila picnic, smc clubhouse, rides from the circle. 
lecture "future of housewifery" by barbara r. bergmann, univ. of md., sponsored by econ. dept, 331 O'shaughnessy. 
lewisio's, spaghetti buffet and live entertainment lewis hall basement, phone 3735 for reservations. ' 
bible study "campus crusade for christ," grace hall penthouse 
dat test, dental admission test, rm 127 nieuland sci. hall. lsat test, law school admission test engr. aud. film, "bugs bunny superstar" engr. aud., $1. devotions recitation of rosary, grotto 
film, sponsored by indian association. lib. aud. nd/smc theater, "the comedy of errors," o'laughlin aud. $2.50 and $2. 
capping ceremony, smc dept. of nursing, church of loretto 
******************** • NOW OPEN IN SOUTH BEND!:
" 
' 

U.S. 31 (Dixieway North) 
in Roseland across from Holiday Inn 

******************** 

1500 available 


CSN tickets to go on sale 
by Mark Rust 
Fifteen-hundred tickets for the Nov. 5 Crosby, Stills and Nash con­cert will go on sale through the Stu­dent Union office tomorow from 9 
a.m. to 4 p.m. Padded and floor seats will be sold for $8.50 while bleacher seats go for $7.SO. 
According to Joe LaCosta, Stud­ent Union ticket manager, each person with a ND-SMC lD card will be allowed to purchase up to 10 tic­kets apiece so that those that can't make it this weekend sti11 have the opportunity to buy tickets through a friend. A lottery will be held at 6 

Health Fair plans underway 
Plans for the Health Fair to be held November 19 and 20 at Century Center are well underway according to Dr. Douglas Barton, Chairman of the steering commit­tee for the event. Barton reported that more than 45 health and welfare agencies from St. Joseph County were represented at a recently held meeting and all were planning on participating in the Health Fair event. 
"The enthusiastic response we have received from every agency we've been in touch with is an indication of the kind of success we expect to have in the final event,'' said Barton. 
The Health Fair is included as one of the major festivities being planned in celebration of the opening of the new Century Center complex, the convention and cultu­ral facility being built on the bank of the St. Joseph River in down­town South, Bend. 
Barton outlined the purposes of the Fair as the folJowing: to gain exposure Century Center by attrac­ting the community at large to attend an event held there, to educate the general public as to the function and services offered by the many various health-related agen­cies in our community, and to provide specific services to those persons who cannot afford them. 
Many different kinds of tests will be offered as well as demonstra-
The Observer Is published Mon­
day through Friday except during exam and vKatlon periods. Tt'!e Observer Is published by the
students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased tor no per year ($10 per semester) from The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre 
Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, 5 lndlana.•uThe Observer'· 11 a member of
. the A11oclated Prell. All repro­ductlon rights are reserved. 
p.m. Friday in front of LaFortune to establish the order at the front of the line. 
Those arriving for tickets before 6 p.m. will not be gauranteed a place before the drawing. "People started calling Monday and Tues­day to ask if they should begin standing in line," said LaCosta. ''This way no one has to stay more than 15 hours." 
LaCosta said the Lottery worked out well for the Steve Miller ticket sales. "Excellent -no problems at all," he added. "only 25 people were there for the drawing so by 4 
a.m. we let them go back and sleep 

..~ .•s. booths, displays, slide shows and films. The Health Fair will take place in the larger area of the 25,000 sq. ft. Convention Hall located within the Century Center complex. For more information on this event, call the Center office at 284-9711. 
Library plans improvements 

[continued from page 1] According to Sparks, the system will be operational on Jan. 1, 1978. 
·''It will help us handle our paper work--just make the process a lot faster and a lot simpler,'' Sparks said. 
About branch libraries, Sparks said that people often forget about them. As a result, he said that there may be plans to install book detection systems in four major branch libraries: life science, chemistry-physics, english and architecture. 
No budget cuts 
~Sparks pointed out that unlike most other college libraries, the Notre Dame library suffered no budget cuts, although there has been a lack of funds. "We're remarkable in that way thanks to 

' Fr. Burtchaell," he said. 
But improvements for the library will be urged because faculty, library staff and even students believe a good library is essential to Notre Dame. Said one library staff worker: ''The library is the most 
important part of the school. The faculty know this, and if the t d t d 't t th b t d 
s u en oesn ge e es e ­ucation possible from the books, then he doesn't get the best job." 

.. 
••••••••••••••••••, 
A NEW RECORD STORE IS 
• 



5River City Records: 
• One of Indiana's Largest Record Stores :
. .
-
:Grand Opening Saturday• 
. . Ill 

• Featuring a full line of rock, pop, jazz, • • blues, soul and bluegrass records & • • tapes! Also official concert tour T-shirts, • 
posters and belt buckles, cut-outs, im­
• ports, magazines, blank tapes, record Ill 
care products and. River City Concert • Tickets! (Pick up your copy of The River • • City Review today!) • 
• STAFF: • • PeterKeman, owner [NO '75) Jody Gormley [NO '77] • Perry Aberll, manager (NO '69] Peter Murphy (NO '78] • Bruce Reaves, assistant manager Randy Varga • Chris Kernan,_~sslst. manager (NO '78] Karen Aberli • Brenda Fleece [SMC '7 •
• 

.-------• •COUPON• •--•-•-_111
• c NI>:
OFF ANY L.P. OR TAPE 
• WITH THIS COUPON! • 
• (Now thru Oct. 20) .. 
• River City Records • 
• 
50970 U.S. 31 North (Next to Ray's Quality Foods) Ill 

• 
South Bend 277-4242 ..,


.................... 
until 7. That won't happen this 
time though. We're expecting a 
heavy overnight turnout.'' 
This is the first time in recen · 
years that Saturday has been chos­
en as an on campus ticket sales day 
and it is in direct conflict with LSAT 
testing. In response to student 
concern, LaCosta was empathetic. 
"I don't like it either," he said, 
"but the whole thing is entirely out 
of my hands. The ACC and Sun­
shine Promotions are the ones who 
set the dates of ticket sales and we 
have little to say in the matter. All 
next week the ACC is going to be 
selling Navy tickets and I guess 
since there is no football game Sat­
urday they chose that day. It's ta­
king away my free day too. I gau­
rantee you that if this was a football 
weekend you wouldn't catch me up 
there." 
Sections seven, eight and ten of the padded seats , and sections A and B on the left side of the floor, along with the bleacher seats, will be among the selections offered by the Student Union Saturday morn­ing. All checks should be made ­payable to "ND Crosby, Stills and Nash Concert.'' 
The Student Union ticket office is 
open daily from noon until 4 p.m. 
on the second floor of LaFortune. 

Theatre group to hold auditions 
The Center Stage Productions 
hold final open auditions for How 
To Succeed In Business Without 
Really Trying. 
Center Stage Productions, a new professionally staffed theatre com­pany based at 121 S. Michigan Street in South Bend, will be pro­ducing seven promotions at the New Century Center, opening in December and ending the season in early June. 
The policy of CSP is to surround their core of professional actors with the best area talent available. In keeping with this policy, audi­tions will be held this Sunday at 3 
p.m. at Tippecanoe Place Grand Hall. 
Director Ron Jacoby requests that each person come prepared with a short comedy piece no lon­ger than three minutes, and music for a vocal audition. 
For any additional information Call Center Stage Productions at 233-1700. 


--~-----~­
,
~~~--~--~~~------~---------------------~-­



SMC's October fund raiser to support Logan Center 
by Carollne Moore 
will be one participant. The tennis match is scheduled St. Mary's Board of Governa~ce 
for Monday, Oct. 17 at 7:30 p.m. at met last evening and dealt wtth Angela Athletic Facility. The 
many issues, i~ludi~g the St. minimum donation will be 25 cents Mary's charity and tts October 
Hartzell encouraged everyone "to fund-raising project. come and support your favorite." The charity chosen by the stu­Mary Rukavina, student body
dent body was Logan Center. The president, announced that CicilyOctober fund-raiser, organized by 
Tyson has cancelled all her Nov. Amy Hartzell, will be a te~~is engagements, one of which includ­match. It will feature the admtms­ed speaking at St. Mary's. 
tration versus the student body. Hopefully, Rukavina said, this can St. Mary President John Duggan be rescheduled for Jan. In the 

May's Student Government ·bills amounted to $3500 
by Diane Wilson Tobben said. Senior Staff Reporter 
Student Government also paid for the refurnishing of the Student 
Student Government bills for the Body President's office. The 
month of May amounted to $3500, money for the remodeling came out 
accounting for most of the $4500 of the Assets and Repairs account, 
which Student Government receiv­according to the Student Govern­
ed to cover summer expenses ,stated ment treasurer, and the changesPete Tobben, SG Treasurer. 
made were permanent ones which 
These expenses were incurred will benefit people in the future. 
during May, but the bills were not • • Smce the offices will be usedreceived until summer. They and used for many years, byincluded items that were charged maintaining sufficient upkeep they to the University and paid for later will stay in better condition,"such as telephones, movies, and Tobben added. "Everything added Bookstore charges, explained to the offices will stay there aftertheTobben. 
president leaves."
"The remainder of the money went to cover summer expenses 
which included paying room and board for the chairman of Fresh­
A Reminder • • •
man Orientation and the insurance bills for Student Government, as well as maintainance expenses," 


St. Mary's College 
Student merchants 


Con1munity Liturgy
must register 
Student concessions and 

Sunday, Oct 9th

·'businesses'' must be registered with the Student Union (SU) Services Commission according to 
Regina Chapel 11:15 am 
the Union's "Merchandising Policy." Students who fail to register will be fined by the Office 
Students, of Student Affairs. 
F acuity & families ALL WELCOME!
Copies of the Student Union's Merchandising policy are available 
Administration in the SU offices on the second floor 
following MassCoffee & ....

of LaFortune. 
*****************************t
~ Notre Dame Club of New Yori<, Inc. ~ 
• PRESENTS ~ !' •~ 




~ NOTRE DAME vs ARMY • ~ Pre-game Party IRally f 
-tc Roosevelt Hotel .;: t 46th and Madison Ave. N.Y. C. ~ 
-tc .;:t Fri. Oct. 14, 1977 7pm to 11pm ~ 
~ * ND Cheerleaders ~ 
• •Band
t 
*Cash Bar ~ *Bagpipers ~ *Raffle 
~ 
~ Who's invited? 


~ and friends of Notre Dame ~ 
~ <AMONG THE INVITED SPECIAL GUESTS ARE: Father Joyce, Moose i' i( Krause, Col. Jack Stephens, Tim Ryan, Don Criqui, Joe Garagiola, Angelo ~ il Bertelli and many others.) ~ 
~ s2 ND/SMCstudents with ID ~ ~ *3 Evervone else ~ 
******•*.-·*'******************. 
f ~ 
""" 
~ ~ 


Alumni, students ~ 
meantime, Rukavina is looking for 
a replacement speaker. 
A new idea instituted by Student 
Government is a ''weekend bank.'' 
This will enable students to get 
change on the weekends and 
possibily also cash checks up to 
$10. This may start by Nov. 1, with 
Mary Beth Leisle in charge. This 
idea originated, Rukavina said, ''in 
response-~o s~udent complaints." 
Hartzell also outlined coming sports events. There will be a volleyball tournament tomorrow starting at 11 a.m. at Angela Athletic Facility. On Mon. St. Mary's will face Notre Dame in field hockey. This will start at 7 
p.m. on the astroturf behind the ACC. 
St. Mary's has obtained Mont­gomery Wards' film of the 1976 Winter Olympics which will be shown within the next two weeks. There will be no charge, but a specific date and place has yet to be announced. 

In response to the problems with the shuttle, St. Mary's student government volunteers rode the shuttle to get statistics on fre­quency and major areas of usage. 
This information will help if a decision on cut-backs in the service is necessary. Mary Ann Fuchs, Co-Exchange commissioner, thanked everyone "very much for their time and cooperation.'' 

Friday, October 7, 1977 the: observer ._.3 
A Double Huddle atlack can strike at any time. [Photo by Debbie Krilich]. 

FRANKS PLACE Restaurant_& Lounge 327 W. Marion St. South Bend , lnd. 

. ' 
Phone 232-2277 
·seer Wine Liquor Serving lunch, etc. 11 am to 2 pm 
5:00 to 12 :00 six da s a week 
CILA IS NOW ACCEPTING DRAWINGS, 
PHOTOGRAPHS, AND ANY OTHER IDEAS 
OR ITS ANNUAL CHRISTMAS CARD SALE 
Contact Student Activities Office in Fortune for details. Deadline is Wed., Oct. 12. 



. "--·
·-l·.f/J;····.····
..··.·..····~.· 
·-_.,} .:,.-· ' 
........ 
,,;.,~..;. 
Saturday: NO JAZZ COMBO 
sophistifunk steve f. colonie neil gillespie cedric williams mike stalter gerard young 



9:30 -12:00 
drums piano 
bass 
tenor sax alto sax 


the observer Friday, October 7, 19n
4 




Usher confiscates Murray's banner 
by Mike Berberich possible embarrassment to the stated that an initail step will be to stating that it did not encompass or have filthy double entendres. 
The confiscation of a "Murray's Massage Parlor'' poster during halftime last Saturday was the result of a University directive that 
no  banners  be  permitted  on  the  
field.  
The  posters.  made  by  several  

Zahm students calling themselves "Murray's Massage Parlor," have become a regular halftime feature in front of the student cheering section at home football games over the past two years. 
When the Murray's group stood on the wall in front of the students showing the poster, "Kick the Spartans in the Athens," a stadium usher came from the field into the front rows of seating. Approaching the students from behind, the u'>her then grabbed the poster from them. "It was kind. of a shock. This guy gave us no reasons, he 1ust took it," claimed a representa­rh e of Murray's. 
The usher stated that he was 
·unly doing his job," and was fl~llowing the University directive. fhc usher cited the "filthiness" University as reasons for not allowing signs. 
Dean of Students James Roemer stated that he was ''in sympathy with the usher.'' He added that he had issued the orders that "there be no banners on the field or on the concrete parapet around the field," after the last Southern Cal home game. 
After the nationally televised game, Fr. Hesburgh, Fr. Joyce and Roemer received a "barrage" of letters from across the country about game posters. 
''Some of them were pretty gross and obscene posters, distasteful to the national television audience and the 60,000 people in the stadium.'' Roemer said. Roemer/ has asked that student government 
form a proposal  to  regulate ben­ 
ners.  
Student proposal  

Tom Soma, Orest Deychackiwsky and John Ryan are presently working on a policy to be submitted to Roemer early next week. Soma declare that during Homecoming Week before the Southern Cal game, any banners in poor taste or with double meanings will elimin­ate that hall from competition for any of the prizes to be awarded. 
Soma said that he wants to see "a positive peer pressure cam­paign against these posters. There is no need for the double meaning in posters and it detracts from the whole weekend." 
If Roemer accepts the policy guidelines, to be proposed by the student representatives, the next step is to seek approval of the Hall Presidents Council. 
Regarding the student proposal, Roemer commented, "I'd like to pass some of the responsibility to the students for a plan to screen posters. I want the posters to be fun, wholesome and consistent with the class Notre Dame repre­sents.'' Soma commented that "rather than having Dean Roemer take signs down, we would like to prevent the possibility of him even having to do this.'' 
Roemer clarified his directive banners in the stands, but that the issue concerned permitting posters on the field or on the ledge of the wall around the field. Regarding posters in the stands Roemer said, "In the stands--fine, but I would hope students won't get into four letter words or double meanings.'' 

Roemer added that having post­ers on the field could intedere with band performances and was unfair to those who had put in many hard hours of practice. 
Murray's 

"Murray's", consisting of Mike Beaulieu, Brian McHale, Tom Mielenhausen, Mike O'Brien, Sean Coughlin and Mark Szaflarski, expressed disappointment at the University directive. Mielenhaus­en stated that they consider the Murray's signs as traditional be­cause they were permitted at every home game last year. Mielenhaus­en also added that they never try to offend anybody. 
"9ilr policy," he said, "is that the puns are rotten, but never filthy 


_This is a cryptogram, a form of code lan-"Q TOL:' the "0" always standing for "A': the guage, where letters of the alphabet stand "T" for "C:' and the "l" for "T." Your chal­for other letters of the alphabet. For instance, lenge is to break the code of the cryptogram the words "A CAT" in a cryptogram might be below, and discover its hidden message. 
When there's a challenge, quality.makes the difference. 
We hope you have some fun with the challenge. Pabst Blue Ribbon is the Number 1 beer in Milwaukee, beer capital of the world. 
That's why we'd like to offer you another challenge -the Pabst challenge. Taste and compare Pabst Blue Ribbon to any other premium beer. You'll like Pabst 
:. 
because Blue Ribbon quality means the best-tasting beer 
r f 
you can get. Since 1844 it always has. " 

PABST. Since 1844. The quality has always come through. 
PABST BREWING COMPANY, Milwaukee, Wis., Peoria Heights, Ill., Newark, N.J., Los Angeles, Calif., Pabst, Georgia 
. . >I~OM 01 S'v' SnOI031 S'v' 38 OlnOM 1~0dS 01 SA'v'OilOH 8NIA'v'ld 3t:I3M t:l'v'3A 3H1 ll'v' ::II. 1\l AJU8H s.aJe&dSa'>fe4S WOJJ UOI)elonb 'v' :J&Msuy 
=r..--~-4-:.:.-·•·•-s:.,-·,.•a._--.r.-•, ~-,_~., .. -~&...~ . ..,..-_...,•• .. ~---~-····~-., ....... -,... -~-_-,.·;..-,..~ ....--­
There is always a big response in 
the stands and it brings the 
students together. Last year, even 
parents and alumni cheered our 
poster when we walked around the 
field.'' 
The usher who took the poster at 
the game Saturday was booed by 
the students. The members of 
Murray's felt that this showed a 
strong disapproval of the usher's 
actions. "We try to keep our 
posters in good taste,'' Mielen­
hausen said. "We don't want to 
rub anybody the wrong way." 
Joseph O'Brien, assistant athlet­ic director and business manager of athletics in charge of the stadium ushers, stated that the usher may have "overreacted." Referring to banners he said, "when students display posters, we hope they are doing so in good faith.'' 
O'Brien added that he was concerned with the danger of toilet paper being thrown around. ''There is a special section in front of the students for people in wheel chairs and we are concerned that they could be injured," he noted. 

Gallery hours change 

New art gallery hours at St. Mary's have been announced by Michele Fricke, gallery director. Effective immediately, the gallery will be closed on Mondays. Tuesday through Friday the hours are 9-11 a.m. and 12:30-3 p.m. Saturday and Sunday the hours are 12:30-4 p.m. 
Swim timers 


to meet 

All Notre Dame and St. Mary's girls who signed up to be timers for the varsity swim meets should contact either Jim Severyn at 1797 or Ed Diluia at 1155 by Friday. 
The girls. who will be known as the "Dolphin" club, will parti­cipate in six home meets. No experience necessary. 

Campus Ministry sponsors liturgy 
St. Mary's Campus Ministry will sponsor a community liturgy Sun­day at 11: IS a.m. in the Regina Hall Chapel. All students, faculty. staff. administration and their families are invited to attend. 
According to Father David Mur­phy, campus ministry plans to sponsor several such liturgies each semester to give students a chance to meet the families of their teach­ers and to fulfill the college's goal praying together. 
Coffee and rolls will be served af­terwards. 
Bar-B-Que 
& 




l.~~: 
Aestaur.ant ~ 
.and LDunge 
Featuring the finest in hickory smoked 
. 
. . 
barbeque -CDOked over an open pit with special sauce 
.75 or $1.00 Pitcher's of Beer with Dinner 
HAPPY HOUR DAILY 4-7 p.m. 
Pitchers $1.25-$1.50 
Beer .35 
4-3 a.m.
1132 S. Bend 
daily
Ave. 
dosed Sun.
Atone 
and Mon.
289-0639 
..-·1-.· ~-...._-L,_.~,... ....-... ·'-"'--·----..--_-... .,.~ ..·-____ -:-. ·.-c,.~_-.4 

----~------------~~------~------~--------~~----~--------------------------------------------­

PLACEMENT BUREAU 
Main Building 
INTERVIEWS SCHEDULED FOR WEEK OF OCTOBER 17 
Interviews are for seniors and graduate students. Sign-up schedules are in Room 213, Main Building. Interview times must be signed for in person. The sign-up period at the Placement Bureau will be from 8:00a.m. to 5:00p.m., Monday through Friday. 
OCT 1_ American Hospital Supply Corp Mon. BM in all disciplines. 
Bechtel Power Corp 
BMD in all Engr disciplines. 
City National Bank of Detroit 
All BBA. 

Industrial Risk Insurers . . 
B in all Engr disciplines. B in Physics and 
Chern. 

Syracuse University -Grad. School of Business 
B in all disciplines. 
OCT 17/18 McGladrey, Hansen, ·nunn & Co B in Acct. MBA with Acct bkgrd or (Interviews to be held in Rm. 222, Bureau.) 
OCT 17/18/19 Alexander Grant & Co 
Mon/Tu/Wed 
OCT 18 
OCT 19 Wed 
OCT 19/20 Wed/Thur 
OCT 20 
Thurs 
OCT 20/21 Thur/Fri 
OCT 21 Fri 

B in Acct. MBA with Acct Bkgrd 
ARCO Chemical Co 
PhD in Chern. 
Atlantic Richfield Co 
BM in ChE. 
BASF Wyandotte Corp 
BM in ChE. 
Mutual of New York BM in all disciplines. 
concentration. Placement 
or conctrn. 
Procter & Gamble Co -Product Development BM in ChE. MBA with BS in ChE or Chern. Wharton Graduate School of Management B in all disciplines. Aeronautical Systems Division-Wright Patterson AFB B in AE, EE and HE 
American Oil Co -Standard Oil Co B in Acct. Case Western Reserve-Grad. School of Management 
B in all disciplines. 
Metropolitan Life Insurance Co 
B in all disciplines. 
Service Bureau Co 
MBA. 

University of Tulsa -School of Law 
B in all d!sciplines. 
c. v. Yeager & Associates B in Mgt. MBA, MBA-JD with bkgrd or 
conctrn in 
Mkt, Bus. Law and Acct. 
Dow Corning Corp BM in ChE. B in Acct, Mkt. Mkt bkgrd or conctrn. Mobil Oil Corp BM in ChE and Chern. B in ME and BA. Ohio State Law School B in all disciplines. PPG Industries, Inc 
MBA with Acct or and EE. B in AL 
B in ChE, EE, ME, MEIO, Chern (Analytical). University of Southern California, Grad. School 
of Business B in all disciplines. Travelers Insurance Co B in AL and BA. 
Touche Ross & Co B in Acct. MBA with Acct. bkgrd 
Aerospace Corp MD in AE, CE, ChE, EE, ME, Met, or Chern. Columbia University, Grad School 
(Cancelled) Corning Glass Works BM in ChE, EE, ME, MEIO, Met. Dean Witter & Co B in Econ. All BBA. MBA. Harvard Law School B in all disciplines. Insurance Services Office BM in Math. National Security Agency BM in EE, Cop Sci. M in Math. Westinghouse Electric Corp BM in EE and ME. 
or conctrn. 
Physics, Math of Business 
--~-----.­
11 
Friday, October 7, 1977 the observer 5 

No ND connection with 'test tube city' 
by Kathleen ConneUy Staff Reporter 
Notre Dame has not indicated 
any official interest in a multimil­
lion dollar experimental city, as 
implied in a syndicated UPI article. 

In the article circulated this past summer, the project's designer T. Brooks Brademas was quoted as stating that the University had indicated interest in his project. However, Brademas said in an interview recently that he ''at no time stated that Notre Dame sup­ported or sponsored the project.'' He added that the University had not as yet taken any official position. 
The project, to be located about 20 miles Notre Dame, includes plans for a revolutionary system of education and innovations in indus­try and urban planning. 
Brademas said that he had discussed the project with various University faculty members, but that these were informal conver­sations, and their interest did not imply University interest. 
In July Brademas sent a letter to Joseph Hoban, dean of the college of Engineering clarifying the sit­uation. Brademas had also dis­cussed his plans with engineering faculty members. 
Brademas mentioned IU and Michigan State in addition to Notre Dame, saying that "the project needs to be tied into a first class educational institution with strength in various disciplines.'' 
In the experimental city, tele­vision monitors in the home would replace conventional schools, wastes would be recycled in the 
special  plant,  and  all  religious  
denominations  would worship  in  
one building.  

The reason for the last provision is Brademas' belief that operating a building for several hours a day once a week is a waste of space and energy. A single building for all of the various denominations would be more economical. 
Brademas said that since the syndication of the UPI article he has received letters of support from all over the country. At present he is awaiting federal funding before starting construction. Brademas added that the federal government has expressed interest in this type of project. An amount ranging from 10-25 miliion dollars will be needed for the first year.. 
The communities surrounding the already purchased site are not enthusiastic about the plans for a test tube city in their backyards. At a well-attended meeting at the township hall, the project received negative feedback. 
Brademas added, "society has the resources to solve· virtually any problem but has never corollated or coordinated efforts in a certain area. That is essentially what we would like to do.'' 
. 

Poetry reading,discussion scheduled for tonight 
The Open Word,'' a poetry read­ing and discussion, will be held to­night at 8 p.m. in the Elkhart Pub­lic Library, 300 S. 2nd St., Elkhart. Community poets are invited to bring their works in any language for informal group discussion. 
The program will be conducted by Rogelio de Ia Torre, a Spanish professor at Indiana University; Ruth Cassel Hoffman, a French professor at St. Mary's; Jeanne Rodes and Deanna Sokolowski, members ofthe St. Mary's English department; and Laurie Horst, a educator of the deaf at St. Marv's. 
O'Neil to discuss law topics 
.. 

The St. Mary's Law Society will meet this Sunday at 6:30 pm in Room 161 LeMans. Karen O'Neil, Career Development director, will speak on general law topics, inclu­ding LSATs, paralegals, and law school admissions. 
The public reading is part Of a 

series entitled, "Poetry Speaks 
Your Language," in which local poets share their works in Spanish, French, English and the American Sign Languauge. Sponsored by the division of Continuing Education at Indiana University, the program was made possible by a matching grant from the Indiana Committee for the Humanities in cooperation 'with the National Endowment for t 
the Humanities. 

u.J 

TRYOUTS FOR
:r 
t-
THE CAUCASIAN 
CHALK CIRCLE

SMC 
Odober 9 and 1 o

THEA T R E 7 p.m.-Washington Hall 
Audition information availabe in Speech and Drama Office, Rm. 110, Moreau Hall, Saint Mary's. 
~---------------, 



( ~~~~~H~ES 96c ~ 
I LARGE ROOT BEER I 
I one per customer per visit I! thru Oct. 16 1977 I 
·--------------~-~
I 'Do&n Suds~ I 
I We make a lot of things better. I 
Texas Burger • Charco Bur~r • Coney Dog • Tenderloin · I
I , Bar-B-Que • Fish Sandwiches 
\ south bend ave. & edison _....# 
~-----------~~-a 


.·.-•. ··-., ..,-...~. • .-... ,. .-... -... • • a ...... . . .. ... .. ... -.. .. ~ ~ _ ..· ~ _... _-.-.-. .. . . . . -­

from this side 


Freedom or Decadence? 
1 enjoy being with charming and inteHigent, attractive, and vivaci­ous women. Most other men also enjoy being with charming and in­telligent, attractive and vivacious women. I realize, though, that a small minority of men prefer the company of other men. However, I expect these men who are homo­sexuals to recognize their homo­sexua1ity is unnatural. I expect these men who are homosexuals to live a life of struggle to try to over­come or control their tendency. 
But at the present time some pe­ople have concluded that their ho­mosexuality is so natural that it jus­tifies in their case homosexual rela­tions with a ''sincere communion of life and love" analogous to marri­age. Also, there are those who, ba­sing their ideas on observations from the psychological order, have begun to judge homosexual con­duct indulgently. Some even ex­cuse it completely. For example, several weeks ago there appeared in this paper an article on the homo­sexual community at Notre Dame. The artide was written in a tone that att~e mpted to give moral justif­ication to homosexuality on the grounds that it is consonant with the t~ondition of these people. 
opin ion !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~ 
Rabble Rousers Repent 
-----~·iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii._ cIyde ivers o n 
Flash: N.D. students boo team quartcrl>,ick. Hesburgh declares Papal eruergency saying "God llJade Notre Dame #1; and I, no I mean God, doesn't like to be booed." 
No. -~~ds didn't happen, but it very well could have. What are we coming to fellow Domer's? Have we degenerated into the kind of drunken rabble that can be found 
..... on any (.,f the pagan, hedonistic c01lege campuses across the land? Are we going to sink to the raucous depths of L.S.U., Michigan, U.S.C. 
•Jr Pittsburgh? Will we have the unmitigated gaul to openly express emoth)n~, however genuine, and t!terefort: disgusting to some they might 1-:-e'? Will we be forced to view the nauseous spectacle of 
N.D students getting rowdy, stoned &nd having a good time shouting whatever comes to mind (if d1esc ~oor souls can indeed be said to have minds) at the top of their lun.gs? I say No! Never agwn!t! Thisis ,, ::allowed campus, popula­ted by hallowed people with a hallowed purpose. For those of you who were somehow unaware of this, let mt: remind you of an article which apf>~;ared in this very space several cta:vs ago, written by noted campus theologian and philosophi­cal Poo-Bah, David Cwik. If any of you have doubts about the true nature :&nd purpose of Notre Dame, read Cwi.k's article. It literally gushes with insight about what Notre Dame can do to the mind of an ordinary man. Cwik is the embodi~ent of the Notre Dame Man, a. &~If-confessed conscien­tious Di:>6iJle of God, Mind, Soul and The Truth, a man with the courage tc reveal to the world the agnosticism of Kant and logical impossibii}; ~.' of Christian Existenti­alism. Wi:zt courage, what inspi-· ration! h: ;)tdy David Cwik could take the time to guide us. But, alas &s 1:-·e all know he must be gatherin,JI; ~vidence to crush the heresies of Darwin, Newton, and Einstein, 'he blasphemy of Watson and SJcinnPr But perhaps with a : 
However, homosexuality is not consonant with the condition or freedom of anyone. It is an intrin­sically unnatural condition. It is unnatural because it is not prompt ed by love for another. It is promp­ted only by an urge for a perverse self-gratification. And pursuing this self gratification ends in the destruction of the human persona­lity. 
Complacent toleration of homo­sexuality indicates a lost sense of man's dignity. Toleration of homo­sexual conduct demonstrates many no longer understand freedom. 
Many who do tolerate homosex­ual conduct would probably res­pond that freedom is ''the power to do what you like." However, such power to choose is not real free­dom. The power to choose what you wish to do only demonstrates free will. You can exercise your free will to do something you feel like doing, and be less free as a re­sult. For instance, you can eat as much as you feel like and the result is that limitation of your freedom that we call indigestion. 
No; freedom is not the power to do what you like. It is something much more important. Freedom is the power to become fully yourself; 
little help from The Devine Pre­sence we can help ourselves. Ifwe are to stop irreverent booing of The 
Devine Team of Notre Dame, we need a plan. 
I would like to propose the following: First, all of Cwik's proposals must be implemeted at once, i.e., all University courses are to be taught within the guide­lines of Christian teaching as revealed through the Bible, and administered under the leadership of Justice Incarnate, Mr. Triple Threat Himself, the Builder of the Holy Endowment. Second, errant professors such as Rev. Burtchaell and Prof. Larson must continue to be demoted and/or discouraged from continuing their association with the University. Professors such as these, sincere though they may be, have been the unwitting handymen of anti-chrisitian, i.e., evil forces. Their crime: to promote the dangerous belief that ND is and should strive to improve its position as a leading Academic Institution. That anyone would think ND is a leading Academic Institution is simply a kind of silly intellectual mischief. But to go further, to actually make serious attempts to bring ND to the grimey depths of academic and intellectual excellence frightens the soul. What could Rev. Burtchael have been thinking? Was he thinking at all? Look at what some consider to number amongst the leading Aca­demic Institutions: Berkley, Har­vard, Michigan, etc. These are dens of existentialists, behavoritst, and Darwinian evolutionists. People who are not imbued with the Word. Why they even are sometimes heard to claim that the teachings of the Bible are not absolute, indisputable Truth· Blas­phemy! Of course they cover up their folly ~th mutterings of 
"academic freedom," but we all .know this ignoble phrase is obvi­ously a mere euphemism for the morally bankrupt debauchery which runs rampant across the to become master of yourself and your choices. This is why homo­sexuals do not posssess freedom. they do not rule themselves. They are, instead, controlled by their unnatural impulses. And when man is controlled by unnatural im­pulses he cannot be free. 
Since homosexuality does not lead to freedom, we should control its influence. A first step would be for this paper to exercise a degree of discretion and refuse to print fur­ther articles or classified listings dealing with homosexuality. We need them not. 
"Censorship?" I can hear many you cry out incredulously. "Is it possible that anyone nowadays can seriously defend the idea of censor-
h. ?"
s tp. 

Yes. Modern man cherishes freedom as one of his highest attainments. If homosexuality 
leads not to freedom, but instead to decadence, why should we not control its influence? 
spirtual wastelands of their cam­puses. Surely anyone can plainly see that Notre Dame does not wish to be considered among the "lead­ing academic institutions." Those 
professors  who  fail  to  see  the  
Truth, that IS N D, must go.  
Third,  those  individuals  who  

consistently and/or deliberately menace the Christian character and communityh spirit that is Notre Dame must be expelled. There is no alternative. We simply cannot tolerate rowdv derelicts on this campus. One of our priests recently commented in The Observer that students caught abusing Holy ducks which swim in the Holy Lake should be expelled. This cannot be doubted. Throwing objects at these ducks, booing the glorious clad in blue and gold, carrying beer in hallways, blaring the Rolling Stones across the quads and, finally, -I shudder to think of it ­violating parietals; such actions must be severely punished. These are grievous offenses against the nature of man, and certainly fatal to the Notre Dame Man. Our memories are short. If this irreverent booing, drinking, and late-hour womanizing is allowed to continue, ND might very well attract the kind of students that attend today's leading academic universities. Where would we, who possess The Truth, be then? ­confined to Sacred Heart Church nd the offices of The Scholastic no doubt. 
It wasn't long ago that this campus was forced to endure the mockery of one who refused to accept without question the values of Notre Dame · King Kersten, doer of devious deed. Remember him, remember what he did? We cannot endure another such as he. King Kersten must never happen again. We must stand and fight. Grab your Bibles, quote the scrip­ture, and follow Truth! 




P.O.BOXQ 
Biased 

reporting 
Dear Editor: 

As a resident of Grace Hall, I feel that the facts concerning the Grace­Dillon clash were not objectively represented. 
1. 
First of all the flag was not stolen by Grace residents. The actual flag was found in bushes near the Dillon kegger by two grade school students in South Bend. The flag was also not legal property of Dillon Hall, which was not brought up by Mr. Bauer. 

2. 
The legal implications of the · kidnapping of the Grace Hall President, Jerry Castellini, were not mentioned. Physical injury was received by Castellini. Bauer also did mention that while Castellini was kidnapped, he was presented to the Hall Council of Dillon with the Dillon rector present. Obvi­ously the Dillon staff condones the criminal action taken by its resi­dents. 

3. 
In reference to the incidnet with Brother Paczesny it was a case of mistaken identity. Few of the 


· students would recognize Bro. Pazesny if they were confronted by him. In the heat of the contlict, how could a student, if indeed it was a student. recognize a Univer­sity official who did not identify himself? Was the presence of Brother Paczesny to indicate that he was in support of Dillon's action? 
4. 
No mention was made of the fact that Dillon leaders entered rooms in Grace Hall in search of their hallowed flag. Does this not signify a gross invasion of privacy? 

5. 
How much longer will the self acclaimed "a--holes of the uni­verse" be able to continue their acts of vandalism under the pretext of "hall spirit?" Don't broken windows and damaged bicycles 


DOONESBURY 

IA/cU, WHAT 00 Y(){J I<IOAJ? Ot.' THe OUKE? 
JOHN fJJR!Nt HAS YOU I<JD­! COMe OUTfORTH& 0/NGMc? ~ CANAL. TR£/1J'Y! 
ci 

I I IW 
I MEAN, I KN0MJ 7HE ()()I<E! IF HE KNau 711E 
FAC15,Nt'v S4Y, ~ 

f
1HE IJ/JMN '1FEitri ANIJ 

~ 
signify r flagrant violations of duLac? Numerous incidents in the past by Dillon residents have resulted in University damage, yet Dillon continues vtrtually !Unpro­tested by University officials. 
The above facts are just a few of the various misrepresentations published by Mr. Bauer. How does this justly represent objective jour­nalism? How can the senior staff of The Observer publish this article which places no guilt upon the residents of Dillon? Last year The Observer lobbied vigorously for an increase in operation expenses but is this the effect of such an increase? The Observer staff owes the residents of Grace an apology from Mr. Bauer, equal space in The Observer with a true representa­tion of the facts, or the resignation of Mr. Bauer from The Observer staff. 
James P. O'Hare and concerned residents of Grace 
Hall  
EDITOR'S stands behreporter.  NOind  TE: its  The story  Obseand  rver the  


by Garry Trudeau 
HE MIJST NOT HAVE THe FIJU STORY! SOME­ONe's !liEN FfEIJING HIM A I1JT OF Bl/LL!
,. 
HUH? NO 8. 0.1 TNEY'RE K//J0!/1/G? I AtREADY fiAVEIIT SEEN 
THERf3! THE PAIEKS 

....................................
----------------------------------~ 
& & 5 a 1&2 a a a a 


P.O. BOXQ 

Intrinsic 

rewards 

Dear Editor: 
After reading Mr. Gryp' s article, of 10-4-77, we felt an obligation to clear up the misconceptions put forth in his letter. 
Mr. Gryp seems to overlook the fact that the band is not at issue here. There are many student organizations on campus, in addi· tion to the band, which perform various services. The people involved do not receive or expect material compensation for their efforts, but rather are driven by their own loyalty to the purpose of the organization. The reward that these people receive is the intan­gible satisfaction inherent in know­ing that they are providing that particular service. When you become a member of the Student Union, the band, or any organiza· tion, you consciously accept the "sacrifices" that will accompany that commitment. Whatever addi­tional material benefits that may be obtained should not be expected or considered deserved. 
We would like to point out that what has been referred to as "payment" for the donation of the band's time and effort is actually a Universtiy servec laden with responsibility and constraints. The rewards of being a member of the band are intangible. We had hoped that certain Student Union members were motivated by the intangible satisfaction involved with their work and not the opportunity of obtainin~ special priviledges (i.e., USC tickets). 
Sacrifices are made every day by students on this campus as they involve themselves in various acti­vities. The time donated by Student Union members does not enable them to have priority on USC tickets, originally allocated for the entire campus. 
Bruce LMcCaffrey 
Susan M. Georgen 
Teresa M. Buckley 
More 


Gryp-ing 

Dear Editor: 
This letter is in response to both Mr. Gryp's and Mr. Childers articles on •'working''. I was a bit angry at the pettiness of the arguments which both gentlemen engaged in. The heart of the matter is not who gets two football tickets or sent to an "away•· game. What is important, however. is the reason why we become involved in the organizations we are in. 
It seems to me that extra­curricular activities are greatly encouraged at Notre Dame in order to make friendships. serve our fellow students and better our­selves. It is apparent that a re-evaluation of motives is in order. 

Molarity 
FR HESBURGfl. .. A11AN F/?011 !1ATT£i. 
YOU. 0i.tiD H/H IN. 
~NKYOU ~6-~). 

1.-==~~·~= n·. 
When we volunteer to become active in some organization, the primary purpose should be to help others and in doing so, help ourselves. I should hope that none of us would join an organization in order to see how many •'fringe benefits" we could tally up. 
Mr. Gryp, I would be the last student to accuse you of running for director in order to get passes to concerts, movies, football tickets or anything else. I certainly don't think you would "dip your hands in the til''. I also fully sympathize and am grateful to you for all the long hours you dedicate yourself to the N.D. student body. I myself am involved in various activities and know how much work they entail. But they come with the job, don't they? The good and the bad. And when one volunteers he always has the option to quit. 
What annoys me are people who take on a task and then complain about all the work it entails. That is not the purpose of these organi­zations. Nor are they there to buy loyalty or offer fringe benefits. They're there for personal growth. No one is twisting your arm or your associates to do their respective jobs. You should be doing them because you enjoy it. However, I have no qualms whatsoever about letting you and your associates but two football tickets. After all, you have a very difficult job and quite time consuming. 
But, fair is fair Tom. Don't you think it is also important to compensate those others who have given so much effort and time to their activities like the track team, fencing team, lacrosse club, interhall football. Logan Center helpers, SLC. CILA, .... 
Tony Mockus 

No flowers for security 
Dear Editor: 
Notre Dame is a private institu­tion, so private that even students can't get on campus. The circle has become a rejection route after frustrating and futile attempts at persuading the guards to let us on. "I'm sorry, but those are the rules" is the standard dismissal. The rules should be changed and made more reasonable. Notre Dame Securitv is inconsistent and unfair to stud-ents in their policies regarding cars on campus. 
One Sunday night I realized just how unreasonable the restrictions for getting cars on campus are. I went home for the weekend and returned to school with the car loaded. I pulled up at the gate at 11 
p.m. and handed the guard my driver's license to get a fifteen minute pass. She handed my license back and said "No one is allowed on campus after six. We don't issues any passes." I asked her how I was supposed to unload my car. She said '·Either park at the circle and carry it, or wait until tomorrow.'' I didn't like the idea_of making several trips to unload my 

car in the dark. But I wasn't about 
to leave my stereo in the car in D2 
overnight. 
How many times have adults 
been waved on through with a 
smile while students loaded down 
with paneling. carpet, and luggage 
were handed a fifteen minute pass 
and instructions to "hurry up, 
unload, and get the car off?" Some 
guards are more lenient and will 
•'do the kids a favor by letting them on." Others stand firm, prepared to inspect the car and quote the ·University Code Book of Regula­
tions. 
A security guard who goes by the books wi11 not allow a guy on campus to pick up a date for a formal. Solution? Walk. It's not that easy trudging through the snow across campus in three inch heels and a long dress. I can remember lugging two suitcases across the South Quad to the circle and packages from parking lot D2 to my dorm because I was denied a pass. Even in last winter's below zero weather some students were refused entrance to campus to drop someone off. It was easier to stay in rather than hassle with security. 
The redesigning of University policy to satisfy both students' needs and security objectives is in order. The question of who is allowed on campus and for what reasons he is let through should not depend on what particular guard is on dutv. The rules need to be reviewed, made reasonable. and then consistently carried out. 
Cathy Santoro 

A word of praise 

Dear Editor: 
I want to thank you for the excellent articles and publicity related to the Urban Plunge. I'm sure the more than 200 students who applied by October 5 appreci­ated the accuracy of your reporters, . ads,. etc. 
Thanks also for the help with 
Neighborhood Roots. 
·Don McNeill, CSC Center for Experimental Learning 
bv Mike Molinelli 

PULL TillS STRING AND liE FLIES TO IIAIJ[ LUNCJI W!Tfl F!?ITz !10NDAL[-oR. SEPAR­ATE ANASTY STUJJENT 
FROM THE OJ) CottlfUN­

Midas touch under the Golden Dome 
Dear Editor: 
We all know the story of King Midas who was obsessed with money. when he was given a wish, he wished that all he touched would turn to gold. 

In the two years that I have been at the University of Notre Dame I have been impressed with many things. Unfortunately, one of the things that has impressed me of late has been Fr. Hesburgh's desire to turn everything he touches into gold. This point came out loud and clear a few weeks back at his annual talk at Howard Hall. I felt very uncomfortable throughout the talk as Father continued to expound on how hard it was to beg 
$130 million." Maybe I was mistaken, but I got the distinct impression that he ·was trying to get us, the students present, to contribute to his fund-raising drive. 

I was sorry to see a forum for discussion between the adminis­tration and students turned into another call for gold, no matter how worthy Father felt his call to be. 
But the other day Father's touch went too far. When some Notre Dame students walked to Sacred Heart Church to attend weekly 5:15 
p.m. mass on Friday, they met with a sign that said that the Mass was canceJled. When they probed inside, they noticed a gathering inside the Chapel. Perhaps there would be a Mass after all! But when they sat down they were asked to leave the church because there was to be a "private" Mass celebrated by Father Hesburgh. Now perhaps somebody had died and a funeral was being held, but I doubt it. Perhaps Father wanted to celebrate with some friends, but why the main Church and at the standard time for our weekly celebration? I'm afraid Father's touch for gold has touched the Lord's Supper. Besides the fact that the words "private Mass" are a contradiction in terms theolo­gically, I'm afraid Father was celebrating his "private Mass" for a few wealthy friends to influence his drive for gold. 
David Brady Theology '79 

.,. IN ADDITION YOU GET ACOPYoFTf/E L;rrEST !?EV!sED EDITION 

Who pays 




to see errors ? 
Dear Editor: 
To the world (and Tim Bour.-et): 
We, the undersigned. wish to respond to the remarks contained in The Observer concerning the NO-Michigan State game. Gran­ted, Rusty Lisch did nothmg to merit the treatmenl given him by the spectators on Saturda.v. Whether students should boo fel­low students who happen to play football is open to debate. We do take exception to the comments about the sports fans of Philadel­phia. 
Everyone know~ the reputation of spectators in the City of Bro­therly Love; few know the truth. These people are among the most knowledgeable fans anywhere. If 

the  Eagles  play  Hke  the  little  
Sisters  of  the  Poor,  the  fans  
respond according!.)  They  love  

their teams so much they cannot bear to see them trampled upon. an all too frequent occurrence. When their teams play wen, the noise is unbearable, to say the least Philly fans support their players. Ask Digger Phelps about bringing a team into the Palestra. Ask the Boston Bruins or the Buffalo Sabres. When Larry Bowa made a spectacular pl_ay in the field against the Cincinnati Reds, the "bush" fans gave him a standing ovation that stopped the game for over five minutes. Sparky Anderson said of the action, "It was the first time since I've been in baseball that I've seen a game held up for applause of a defensive play.'' 
Face facts, Tim. Thirty thousand people do not pay good money to see errors. There are a great many athletes who like the city and its people -they enJOY playing for them. 
Your entire article, in our opi­nion, was intended to dissuade people from taking bush, cheap shots. It is a shame vour ruined it all by doing exactly that. 
Jobn Delaney 
Tom Jennings WIHh\m E. Reftsteck 
Ke~toSugg

• Nace MuUen 
Jim Coyne 


THE AGE MY FATHER 


Reuerend Robert Griffin 

I tend to be ambiguous on the subject of age. I lie about it, or supply false dues, hoping to mislead people about how old I am. This year, on the October seventh bithday. I am almost tempted to be honest, mostly because this birthday brings me within two years of the age my father was at the time of his death. 
I hope it is not greedy to want to Jive as long as my father lived. He died in his early fifties, at an age when his familv still needed him with all the essential needs a family has. I hope it is not irreverent to want to live longer than my father lived, surviving into the later decades of life that eluded him. I will never be as good a man as my father was; but as long as I live, something of him will survive. After me and my brother, there are no sons to carry on the name he gave us. 
I was eighteen when my father died. At eighteen, you think a lot about girls, and you have dreams, and you ache with longing for life to be good to you. At fifty, you still think about girls; if you're lucky, you still drearr. and you are simply fearful of losing whatever sweetness you presently know. You think: "In the thirty-two years since I was eighteen, I. have laughed often, and cried sometimes. In those tears and laughter were most of the lessons your father wanted to teach you.'· That is why it is poignant to have lived as long as ,·our father: standing where he stood, feeling what he felt after the lessons of the years, you can understand the anger; the fear, the worry, and the gentleness that were his caring moods for you. At fifty, you have lived through the generation gap that separated the son from the father. Now you stand with him man to man, comparing truth and experience, differing only in the shapes and places of the scars. 
Cruelty 'is the treatment expected of wicked stepmothers towards beautiful daughters they are jealous of. But a teen age son can be cruel too, when he is thoughtless enough to cause his father suffering. AH my father ever tried to do was to provide for his family, and teach them to be decent. AH the return I made to him was to become, as he feared me to be, a thoughtless liar. Lying and hypocrisywerethe sins he hated most. My greatest lie was to become a Catholic without telling him, against his will and against his explicit command never, never, never, under threat of corporal punishment, to set foot in a Catholic church. Where was the honor to father and mother, he wanted to know, in disobedience in such an essential matter as a family's faith? How could one--with any sincerity whatsoever--sing hymns to God or communicate in sacraments in a religious tradition that supported a boy in rebellion and deceit against the God of his own father's household. 
I could have done it differently. It was not pride that caused my father anger, but fear of the self-destructive­ness (as he saw it) that I was getting myself into: a bondage to priests and superstitions and political machinations emanating from the pope. How could I see myself as he saw me: a beloved, youngest child, well-favored by heaven, advantaged enough with endowments to be a source of unfailing family pride; blowing all of it away as certainly as I might have done travelling the traditional ways of dalliance of the prodigal's pleasure cruise. I might have become a Communist; or, in a later generation, I might have become a Moonie. Instead, I became a Catholic, and it was heartbreak for him to watch me. In the thirty-two years since I was eighteen, I have seen parents grieve over offspring rushing freely toward disaster. I have never comforted them without wondering who, except me, could have comforted my father. 
Thirty-two years ago, my father died when I was a lad in the first year of college. I never saw him again after leaving home in September; I came home to his funeral in the week before Christmas. Mother said he worried, during his brief, final illness, whether I would ever make it to my dreams of becoming a priest; but he never wrote, and I never told him I was sorry for hurting him. To ten the truth, I did not understand, at that time, how I had hurt him; you have to be older to understand that kind of pain. Though we lived in the same house, scarcely speaking, for nearly a year, knew he loved me. At the train station on a September midnight--in a scene that never was, and never can be repeated--he fumbled at me with a kiss and groped at me with a hug, leaving my cheek wet, with his tears and my own. It was the first time in over a year we were gentle with each other. It was the last time in a lifetime we were directly in touch. 
This is a tale I have toldbefore, but never have I stood so close to my father in age and understanding as I do on this birthday. The boy's eyes have become the man's eyes, and middle age has brought me sensitivities that age eighteen never knew, and the realization I could have done it differently. Perhaps I did it the best way I could. Perhaps, if my father had lived, he would have lived to tell me that. In the tension that existed between us, I don't think I'm the only one who has a sense of unfinished conversations. 
For many years now, I have been at peace with my father's memory. Still, on my birthday. from whatever place in the Light earth's shadows touch him, I pray for his blessing and his prayer to God for the years I hope for that keep me younger than he was. He was so good a man, and I need all the time I can get for growing closer to his likeness. 
Wish me Happy Birthday, Father dear. With you, at least, I do not have to be ambiguous. Dear God: when you see my father, tell him I never said I didn't love him. Whatever else he needs to know of me, I think he has already heard. 
Happy Birthday, Dick Conyers. 
Eternal peace, Bob Reiman. Please pray for us. 
NICE ITALlAN GIRL, BLACK MARKET BABY 

Anne Cordesman 

Anne Marcarino is a twenty-year old junior in college. She has been innocently raised in an Italian family steeped in the Roman Catholic faith. 
When Anne first lays eyes upon the glamourous Stephen Alvright, she never imagines he will befriend her. But her wildest dreams become reality when Steve asks her out. Courted by Steve, Anne falls deeply in love and is not able to resist Steve's solicitation. She becomes preg­nant. 
Unable to confide in her family, and completely unwilling to abort the child, "·nne is alone and desperate when Steve decides he cannot marry her. Finding herself unknowingly involved in a diaboli­cal adoption racket, Anne struggles vali­antly against those attempting to possess her baby. 
The above story is a brief synopsis of a short fictional novel entitled A Nice Italian Girl. The book was written by Miss Elizabeth Christman. Besides being a writer, Miss Christman is also a teacher in the American Studies Department at Notre Dame. 
Born and raised in St. Louis, Miss Christman joined the Navy during World War 11 and was later educated at Webster College in Missouri. The oldest of seven children and the first writer her family produced, Miss Christman took a job with a literary firm in New York after college. 
After a long career with the firm, helping authors sell their work, Elizabeth Christ­man decided to embark on a new career: college teaching. She found herself very interested in helping young writers devel­op their talents. She returned to school and obtained her Masters and Doctorate degrees at New York University before taking a job at DePauw University. Miss Christman taught at DePauw for seven vears before c•Jming to Notre Dame. She had previously taught classes here during the summer when the American Studies Book Publishing (next semester). 
Miss Christman's interests outside of 
writing are centered around reading and 
classical music-especially opera. When I 
asked her about the difference between 
DePauw students and those at Notre 
Dame, Miss Christman replied that Notre 
.. 


Dame students are happier people. 
A Nice Italian Girl is Elizabeth Christ­man's first novel, although she has always been interested in writing. She has written and published short stories and articles for "The Reporter," "The Sign," "Southern Humanities Review," and "The Colorado 
..c: 
-~ 
·;: 
~ 
-~ 
..Q ..Q 
Q.l 
0 
>­
..Q 

Quarterly.'' This fall, another of Miss Christman's compositions will be pub­lished in an issue of "Indiana Writes". 
In 1973, Miss Christman began writing the beginning of A Nice Italian Girl in one of her advanced writing classes at DePauw 
The students wrote stories and so did the teacher. The first part of the book was completed that semester at DePauw. Two years later, Miss Christman signed a contract and completed the novel. An article in the new york times on adoption rackets gave her the inspiration for the book. 
A Nice Italian Girl has been filmed as a made-for-TV movie. The title has been changed to Black Market Baby and the movie will be aired by ABC tonight at 8:00 p.m. 
When Miss Christman wrote her nove, she thought it had movie possibilities. She sold the rights to her book to publishers Dodd, Mead & Company, and this firm took care of the movie rights. 
Andrew Marin wrote the screen play for Black Market Baby. It was filmed in Hollywood and stars Linda Purl, Desi Arnez Jr., Tom Bosley, Bill Bixby, and Jesscia Walters. The movie is two hours long. 
Miss Christman explained that the movie differs greatly from the book. Only the central plot remains the same. Miss Christman told me that when a writer sells the rights to his/her book, he relinquishes any hold over the original work. It can be changed in accordance with the descretion of the screenwriter. 
This being her first movie. Miss Christ­man is hopeful and optimistic about it. Although not totally pleased with the script for the screenplay, Miss Christman real­izes that deviations from the original text are necessary when changing mediums. The novel must be made visual for the screen. 
A Nice Italian Girl is in hard-cover edition and can be found at the book store. The paper back edition will be coming out in the spring. Miss Christman's plans for the future include an upcoming book. Wanting to surprise her readers, she won't reveal any facts about it y~t. 
Department aslc~d her to teach on a full 0 If you have a chance tonight, take in two time basis. She could not resist and has -0 hours of what promises to be excellent,
..c: 

now taught here for two years. Q. heart-warming. entertainment about a girl 
.1\.fiss Chri..,tma~ teaches three classes for with a strong but tender character, written the Amf:rican .:-.tudies Department: Current by a woman of the same disposition. From Amerit-au Fiction. Writing for Publication Elizabeth Christman one who's read the book-it will be two (2 stctions-Fiction and Non-Fiction), and hours you won't soon forget! 
THE 
EEKS 
ORTH 

BUGS BUNNY SUPERSTAR finishes its two-night engagement at the Engineering Auditorium with shows tonight at 7, 9 and 
11. The film combines highlights from the cartoon series with narrative sequences detailing the history of America's favorite rabbit. Admission is one dollar. 



Dauid O'Keefe 

On Campus 
THE OMEN is the story of a young boy SOPHOMORE CLASS HAPPY HOUR, named Damien (David Warner) and the co-sponsored by the second-year students diabolical influences that he is able to exert 
on his parents (Gregory Peck and Leeof Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, will be 
held today from 3:00 until6:00 at Kubiak's. Remick). It is a film with a single purpose, Pitchers of beer will be $1. 75, and mixed which is to scare the bejeebers out of the 
audience, and this purpose is neatly,drinks will go for half price. 
professionally, and thorougly accomplish­
ed. The film will be shown at 7, 9 and 11 on THE QillCKIE will run this Friday night, Saturday and Sunday in the Engineering leaving the main circle at 7:30, 8:00, 8:30, Auditorium, with admission set at a dollar. 9:00, 9:30, 10:00, 11:00, 12:00, and 12:30. Stops include The Boar's Head, Shula's, Village Inn Pizzeria, Record City, Denny's, THE SECOND ANNUAL NOTRE DAME Kubiak's, Jay's, Heidelberg, and the HOCKEY EXPO will be held at the ACC 
Forum Theaters, which are currently Ice Rink on Tuesday. Members of the 
featuring Cousin Cousine and Star Wars. Notre Dame Hockey Team will demon­(See movie listings below.) An all-night strate basic hockey techniques, scrimmage pass will cost one dollar. for a period, and sign free team pictures 
afterwards. Free skating will follow the Expo, which begins at 7:30p.m.
LEWISIO'S, an Italian restaurant run by the women of Lewis Hall, opens for business tonight at 7:00 p.m. in the 
TED BOWARD will speak on the DNAbasement of Lewis Hall. Customers who controversy Tuesday night at 7:30 p.m. in· pay two dollars can enjoy entertainment the Library Auditorium. The talk willwhile eating as much spaghetti, garlic concern the recombination of DNA, whichbread, salad and desert as they like. 
could conceivably lead to the syntheticReservations can be made by dialing 3735. 
creation of human embryos. This topic has created a moral furor both within and 
THE COMEDY OF ERRORS is the outside the scientific and medical profes­shortest and perhaps earliest of Shake­sions. speare's plays. It is a classical comedy of twins, mixed identities, embarassment, confusion, and human failings. The farce will be presented by the Notre Dame/Saint PLAY MISTY FOR ME stars Clint East­Mary's College Cooperative Theater De­wood and Jessica Walters as a disc jockey partment when it opens its new season and a compulsive murderess, respectively. tonight at O'Laughlin Auditorium at 8:00 This popular thriller will be shown Wed­
Devilish Damien p.m. The play will also be performed nesday and Thursday in the Engineering Cavett Comes Back Saturday and Sunday nights this week, as Auditorium. Admission is one dollar, and well as next weekend. times of the shows will be posted. 
........ 
.c 
-~ 
::a!!

On the Tube 
.!:! ·.:: On the Tube 
.J:J .J:J 41 Q 

>-DICK CAVETT returns to television as he
BLACK MARKET BABY is the name of a .J:J
= brings his thoughtful, intelligent and oftenfilm based on the book ''A Nice Italian 0 ruthless methods of interviewing to PublicGirl" authored by ND Professor Elizabeth f Television in a nightly half-hour programChristman. (See details in article in this on 34 at 10:00 p.m. This week's guestsissue.) 
include Sophia Loren (Monday), Rudolf 
Nureyev (Tuesday), and James Taylor and MIDNIGHT SPECIAL features Bob Marley Carty Simon (Friday). and the Waiters and Supertramp tonight at midnight on 16. 
THE WORLD SERIES begins Tuesday at BASEBALL PLAYOFFS in both leagues 7:00p.m. in the city of AL winners. Game will have to go at least four games as of 2: Wednesday at 7:00. press time. The Yankees and Royals will meet tonight at 7:00 and tomorrow at noon, while the Dodgers and Phillies play at 2:00 today and 7:00 tomorrow night. All games 

On the Screen

will be televised at those times on channel 16. 
Scenes from last night's final dress rehearsal for 
SINBAD AND THE EYE .OF THE TIGER
COLLEGE FOOTBALL Saturday at 2:45 on 
andMURDER BY DEATH are this week's28 offers the top-ranked Trojans of USC 
The Comedy ofErrors 
double feature at the MaJI Theater.
against the Alabama Crimson Tide in Los Richard Attenborough's A BRIDGE TOOAngeles. 
FAR, an expensive, star-studded WWII film that failed to pass the critics, will be shown at the Colfax. An Italian animatedNFL FOOTBALL Sunday finds the Lions iQ. 
Minnesota to face the Vikings in an 
film that some have called "better than FANTASIA," ALLEGRO NON TROPO,
important NFC Central clash on 22 at 1:00. The Ben gals travel to Green Bay, where opens at the River Park along with the they'll try to get out of their current rut critically acclaimed psychodrama, I NEV with a victory over the Packers. The game ER PROMISED YOU A ROSE GARDEN. 
will be shown at 1:00 on 16. A delightfully funny French sex farce, COUSIN COUSINE, begins at the Forum 1, while the tremendously successful STAR 
MURDER ON THE ORIENT EXPRESS, a WARS continues in Forum 2. KENTUCKY cunning rnovie based on Dame Agatha FRffiD ·MOVIE, a scattershot satire on Christie's equally cunning mystery novel, contemporary culture along the lines of features Albert Finney as supersleuth ...... THE GROOVE TUBE, opens at Town and 
Hercule Poirot, and includes Lauren Ba­:§ Country 1, while SMOKY AND THE call, Sean Connery, Anthony Perkins, and ·.:: BANDIT shows in Town and country 2. Jacqueline Bisset among its star-studded ::a!! The Scotsdale Theater is showing a new list of suspects. (Sunday, 8:00, 28) .!:! release entitled THE LINCOLN CONSPIR 
,J 
~ ACY, and another new release, mE MAC 
41 IS BACK, runs this week at the Stale. MONDAY NIGHT FOOTBALL pits the ';.. Boiler House 1 features mUNDER AND Monsters of the Midway and Broadway Joe .J:J UGIJTNING, while Boiler House 2 offers when the Chicago Bears meet the Los .E Jacqueline Bisset, Nick Nolte and Robert Angeles Rams in Soldiers Field at 8:00 on -1 Shaw in the film version of Peter Bench­
28. c.. ley's THE DEEP. 


Friday, October 7, 1977 
10 the observer 


Friday, October 7, 1977 the observer 11 



Credit Union enters 36th season of service 
by Mike Kenahan 

members and over $15 million definitely eligible to join and Staff Reporter assets.'' become members." A deposit of at Besides Notre Dame, the NDCU least five dollars insures member­The Notre Dame Credit Union is services St. Mary's College, Holy ship into the Union Kelty ex­celebrating its 36th anniversary Cross Junior College, St. Joseph's plained. She also pointed out that 
this year. The credit union, located Hospital, and "anything that's all members can take advantage of in the Maintenance Center Build­really related right here to Notre any of the Credit Union's manying, first opened its doors on July 
Dame," according to Kelly. services. 31, 1941. Ruth Kelly, NDCU's 
Employees, students and mem­Kelly maintained that of partic­treasurer and manager, stated bers of their immediate families are ular interest and benefit to stu­"We started with seven people and 
all eligible members. Kelly em­dents would be the new share-draft $35 and today we are 11 ,500 phasized that ''the students are acount, loans, travelers checks, 

the distant 

Notre Dame Student Union & Sunshine Present 

and the services of at least five University's business and adminis­notaries public who are on duty tration. Kelly admits however that, each day. ''One of the big services "it was basically set up for Notre that they do enjoy is this share­Dame and the Holy Cross people. draft account because we pay The Credit Union has represen­dividents on them," said Kelly. tation from all walks of life -here." She explained that the share-draft The president of the NDCU's is a checking account that pays 51/:z board of directors is Fred Freeman, percent dividends on the balance of who is also Asst. Dir. of Personnnel the account from the beginning. at Notre Dame. The vice-president 
The NDCU was not always is June McCauslin, Notre Dame's located in the Maintaenance 
Financial Aid Officer. Building, according the Kelly, who 
The NDCU's hours are 8:30am­has worked at the Credit Union for 5:30pm. Monday jo Friday. Kelly13 years. Kelly explained that the suggests that any questions con­NDCU first started at one of the cerning membership or the CreditEngineering offices on campus. 
Union in general should be directedShe noted that ''it moved around a to her. Kelly confirms the NDCU's 
bit." 

motto of "people helping people" "We left the Bulla Shed five by stating, "service is basciallyyears ago," Kelly said. "Five what we do here. We serve years ago, as of July 31, we had 4, people."
109 members, and on July 31 of this year we had 11,168. The move to this building has been fantastic. We've had quite a growth in these Etching show five years," Kelly affirmed. 
The NDCU, which has 16 full­to open tonighttime and two part-time employees, is completely independent from the Carol Ann Carter's exhibit of 
: etchings, "Limited Editions" o-
Inmate tutoring pens tonight in the gallery of the 
Framer's Workshop, 713 W. 
to begin McKinley, in Mishawaka. 
Carter, an instructor in the St. 
The Partner in Action for Cor­Mary's Art Department, is the fir~t 
rectional Efforts (PACE) will spon­artist to exhibit works in thts 
sor a tutoring program with the gallery. The one: woman ~how 
South Bend County jail. Tutors will consists of 18 aqua-tmted etchmgs, 
be asked to spend 2-3 hours each one in an edition of no more 
helping inmates develop basic than ten. This evening•s formal 
reading and math skills to help opening is by invitation only and a 
them obtain their high school second opening for the general 
diplomas. For more information public is scheduled for tomorrow 
contact Mike Pierret (8701). from 9;30 am -5 pm. 

THIS FRIDAY ONLY 
10-12 pm 

3 CANS OF BEER FOR $1.00 
MOST MIXED DRINKS .soc 
& WHILE THEY LAST 


7 oz. BOTILES OF BEER .25c 
WATCH FOR FUTURE SPECIALS 



FOREIGN CAR PARTS CO., 
complete line of rebuilt clutches, brake shoes, brake pads, generators, starters, & alternators 
Parts and Accessories for ALL Makes of Foreign Cars 
215 Dixi~ Way N. 
in Roseland-U.S. 31 N. -Ylblock N. from Pendle St. 
SOUTH BEND , IND. 46637 
. -. CALL: 219 272-7187 
OPEN H:a.m.-6:00 p.m. MONDAY THRU SATURDA 
SAVE 10% ON ALL PARTS fNITH ND ID CAR 



h Friday, October 7, 197·71'";:::===::::;======;:::==========:;::=:;:~;=;::;::;:::;::;=:;;::;::;;;::;11 


CILA workshop aims to study community 
by Maureen Eyres concrete meaning," Murphy com­mented. "Through community A CILA workshop entitled organization, social justice can be ''Neithborhoods, Community realized among lower class Ameri­Organizing, CCUM and Justice" cans. By uniting their energies,will be conducted this Sunday in lower class Americans in the urban 
the Library Auditorium from 1 to 5 centers can make themselves pm. The thrust ofthe program is to recognized.''provide more information on com­The agenda for the workshop
munity organizing and address includes a variety of speechescertain issues pertaining to the explaining what students can do in 
preservation of neighborhoods and order to make social justice pos­cities. sible. The speakers include Peggy
The workshop is required of all Roach, of the Center for Pastoral students participating in Urban and Social Ministry speaking on Plunge over Christmas break. "Community Organizing, Values, 
Interested students are also wel­and Justice" and Msgr. John come. Egan, assistant to the President; According to Don Murphy, the Center for Pastoral and Social 
education officer for CILA, the Ministry speaking on • 'CCUM: Its workshop will be conducted to Development, Present Involve­answer some of the questions ment. Future Possibilities.'' 
which have arisen in programs Following the speeches, the such as Neighborhood Roots and Urban Plunge Groups wiiJ be Urban Plunge. He added,"It is formed from 4:30 to 5 pm. just one of the many programs Refreshments wiJI be served in the being offered this semester in an Library Lounge. attempt to develop urban ministry. The program is sponsored by The stress of the Urban Plunge CILA in collaboration with National 
program is student involvement, Neighborhood Training Center, what students can do." Center for Experiential Learning,
This semester CILA is focusing Institute for Urban Studies, ND its attention on social justice in the Student Government, Catholic urban center. Committee on Urban Ministry
''Social justice seems like two (CCUM), Center for Pastoral and words thrown around that have no Social Ministry. 
CDC holds 'career series' 
by Honey McHugh and in making career decisions. 


Ombudsmen strive to help
She added that underclassmen can 

The Saint Mary's Career De­benefit greatly from these seminars OBUD is a service of the Ombud­price is $6.50 for six dozen, $1 ~or century Baroque altar from the 
velopment Center will begin its in acquiring skills that will aid them bottega of Bernini. Another rare
sman which responds to questions each additional dozen. Spectal
second annual Career Workshop in choosing their course of study. and complaints relative to the requests for bread, pastries, artifact is housed in the niche Series next week. The sessions are "The workshops teach the stu­interests of the ND community. doughnuts, etc. are honored. above the Bernini altar: a graceful
designed to provide "essential· dents to place themselves," O'Neil 
Enlist the assistance of affable and Perhaps it was Bob Marshall who statue of Notre Dame, a gift from skills necessary for career decision remarked. "They have common able troubleshooters by phoning exclaimed, "let them have cake.,. Napoleon III's wife, the Empressmaking and creative job search.,. problems and by working together· 6283. If we can't help you, we'll Venus and Mars may be all right En genie. 
Each of the eight workshops will with us, they can solve them." 
find a sleuth who can. tonight, but my dorm window is not be offered four times during the Members of the Student Affairs Whom do I call on campus to the peephole to intergalatic won­ILLITERATES TAKE HEED: 
semester. They are open to seniors staff will conduct the workshops in order a birthday cake? Bob "Oscitancy" is a word of Latin
ders. Where can I view heavenlyas well as underclassmen from St. the CDC and residence halls during 
Marshall (#8609) is the bakery bodies? We recommend the origin meaning: Mary's and Notre Dame. Some of the late afternoon and early representative who will deliver just Nieuwland Hall Observatory. Scale a) an abnormal nostalgia for thethe topics to be . discussed are: evening hours. Each workshop will desserts. Noble benefactors may up four flights, ring the bell, and Wizard of Oz. 
decision making, work values, skill include about 20 students. Stu­order four different size cakes wait for a "stellarnaut" to come b) having a full shapely figure. 
identification, assertive training, dents can sign up for the sessions (banana, chocolate or yellow bat­and take you to the observation c) the sensation experiencedinterview skills and resume writ­at the CDC in the Student Affairs 
ter!white and chocolate frosting): deck. It is a fascinating and more when peanut butter adheres to the 
ing. wing of LeMans Hall. 
Small cakes serving eight -$6.75; restful alternative to the nine roof of your mouth.
''The workshops will help stu­

Mediums serving fourteen -$7.75; o'clock orit of heavenly bodies in d) drowsiness and apathy.dents begin their career plans College delegates Large cakes serving twenty -$9; the Memorial Library. e) the act of kissing. 
early," states Karen O'Neil, CDC 

and sheet cakes are priced at $11 I'm weary of Otis elevators and ****************************** 
Director, "and avoid senior 

pant c. . " discuss education with a serving of thirty-two. For sagging bunk beds. Are there any The answer is d, something those pastry connoisseurs who de­notable sacred furnishings at Notre I trust we have not induced. 
O'Neil stressed the need for Delegates from several mid­sire an alternative to Oreos and Dame? Try the medieval style FEETNOTES: Happy lOth An­students to actively participate in 

western universities and colleges A-line doughnuts: molasses, choc­interior of Sacred Heart Church. niversary to Ombudsman -Oct. 8.
the program inorder to equip 

will attend an annual conference.of olat_e chip, oatmeal, peanut butter One of Father Sorin's magnificent Mucho gracias to the wicked car­
themselves with the skills 

the National University Extension cookies are also delivered. Base urchases was the ilded 17th toonist Ed. 
necessary to approach today's Association beginning Sunday af­over-crowded job market. She said ternoon at Notre Dame. Speakers a positive self-concept is vital in at the three day meeting in the dealing with job dissatisfactions 


M&M's to aid religious program
Center for Continuing Education 
will include Rev. Theodore Res­An M&M candy sale project will Michel, Molly Grant and Maria
burgh, University president; and the leadership of Clair Hatch, helps 
begin this Monday with proceeds Elena Raaf.
Congressman John Brademas of provide this opportunity for those
SMC institutes 

from the sales going toward the The team members lived in the
South Bend. in the teaching field. 
summer religious education pro-rectory at Holy Rosary Church in
Focusing on the theme, "Contin­The sale will take place on both
Frosh Council gram in New Mexico. This is the Truchas, New Mexico about ten
uing Education: Explosive or Saint Mary's and Notre Dame 
fifth consecutive summer that St. miles from Chimayo and over eight
by Mary Lawrence Cosmetic," the conference will campuses. Team captains and 
Mary's students and faculty have thousand feet up the mountains.
bring together national authorities workers have been chosen to assist 
worked in the National Education The team members worked in
Last spring. the SMC student on marketing of adult education with the sale. 
Association program in the village groups of two or three and went toassembly passed a proposal to programs. Workshops and dis­parishes served by the priest in the various villages where thereplace the four freshman officers cussion sessions will concentrate 
Chimayo, New Mexico. children gathered in the church for with a Freshman Class Council. on self-support programs, arts and 
FREE!!!

Last year's team members inclu~ instruction.
Twenty representatives will be humanities, technology and in­ded Sr. Cecilia Ann Kelly, Art In addition to the class instruc­
Soft drink with 3 items

elected at a ratio of one represen-dependent study, and program Department; Sr. Margaretta Rep-tion, each group visited the homestative per 25 students. At the first evaluation. 
TACOS •eAB1 TACQ

pen, Education Department; Susan of the parishioners to learn aboutfreshman meeting the students Speakers participating in the 
• IIRRIIOS • TAIAliS

Showalter '77; and three senior the culture of the area. Thepresent voted unanimously in favor conference include Len Oliver, Education · Ann ·student NEA organization, under 
• ENelllADAS • TACO IOC

of the new proposal. special assi~tant to the chairman of 
~~~ ~~~~~~~~~ 
Nominations for representatives' the National Endowment for the 

• TOSfADOS • lEAl TACO 
wut be accepted through this Humanities; Lloyd H. Davis, 
• IARIEQIE TACO

A Comedy of ErrorsSunday. The platforms, three Washington, D.C. executive direct­
S • SPAIUSI HOT DOl midnight and should be sent to: director of state funding for the typed pages, are due by Sunday at or of NUEA; David Justice, deputy 
• eHE£SEBURCEI

Shakespeare's merry masquerade.
Maria-Lisa Mignanelli, election Improvement of Eostsecondary Ed­
"We carry a line of

Odober 7, 8, 1 3, 1 4, 1 5 Campaigning begins Monday . Portsmouth, NH director of In­
commissioner, 121 Augusta Hall. ucation; Betty Daniel-Greene, 
vegetarian Foods.

SMCand will run until midnight Oct. 16. stitute for Women in Transition; The primary will be held Oct. 17 in James H. Ryan, director of the 
•

THEATRE at 8:00p.m.LeMans lobby between 10am-6pm. evening program at Indiana Uni­
If needed, a run-off election will be versity of South Bend; Hal Miller 
All seats $2.50 

held Oct. 19 between 10am-6pm in and Clara Kanun of the University 
O'Laughlin ($2 Std-Fac-Staff)
LeMans lobby. of Minnesota; George Colburn of 
"I would like to see every University of California; and 


Auditorium

member of the freshman class others. vote," Mignanelli said. She added 1 Floyd Pennington of the Univer­the more involved thefreshmen are,] sity of Michigan Medical Center 
SEASON TICKETS STILL ·AVAILABLE .................... the better their representation will has chosen a:, his topic, "Contin­
4 PLAYS $9 ($7 Std-Fac-Staff) 
be. uous Program Evaluation or As-
Includes: COMEDY OF ERRORS, CAUCASIAN 
After students submit their plat-sessing Destgn Decisions that Kept 
CHALK CIRCLE, TOUCH .OF A POET, and THE
forms they will get a copy of the Mrs. O'Leary's Cow from Kicking 
SCOTTSDALE MAll
DO

election rules. Over the Lantern a Second Time." 1 


Friday, October 7, 1977 the observer 13 




Co-eds charge Yale with 'sexual harrassment' 
[CPS]-In an August class-action suit, Ronnie Alexander character­ized herYale education as one filled with self-depreciation, emotional torment and rape. 
Alexander is one of five persons fc.•u women and a male professor­who charge that Yale women are subjected to harassments encom­passing everything from offensive conversation and behavior to rape. While the word rape doesn't ap­pear in the court papers, the phrase "coerced sexual intercourse" does. Legally novel in several ways, the suit names no names and seeks no damages. The suit argues that harassment is a form of sex 
discrimination and asks that the court intruct Yale to establish procedures to deal with this prob­lem. 
Procedures that Yale,claims al­
ready exist. "We're probably the 
only universtiy in the world that 
has a special harassment procedure 
written into the rule books," said a 
university official. Instituted in 
1969 at the request of black 
students, the rule states that in the 
event of harassment the person so 
aggreived can make a charge 
through his/her advisor. 
"Clearly inadequate," says law­
yer Anne Simon. "Women in Yale 
effective action wnen narassed by 
aren't given any way to take 

NSF Fellow to be named 
The National Research Council will again advise the National Science Fourdation in the selection of candidates for theFoundation's program of Graduate Fellowships. Panels of er.<inent scientists and engineers appointed by the Natio­nal Research Council will evaluate qualifications of applicants. Final selection of Fellows will be made by the Foundation, with awards to be announced in March 1978. 
Initial NSF Graduate Fellowship awards are intended for students at or near the beginning of their graduate study. Eligibility is limited to those individuals who, as of the time of application, have not completed postbaccalaureate study in excess of 18 quarter hours or 12 semester hours, or equivalent. Subject to the availability of funds, new fellowships awarded in the Spring of 1978 will be for periods of three years, the second and third years contingent on certification to the Foundation by the fellowship institution of the student's satifac­tory progress toward an advanced degree in science. 
These fellowships will be award­ed for study or work leadin2 to 

Courtis receives accounting award 
Sandra Courtis, a senior bus­iness administration major at St. Mary's, has been awarded the Ernst and Ernst Accounting A­chievement Award for 1977. Rich­ard A. Zoo a, manager of the South Bend office of Ernst and Ernst, presented the second annual a­ward, consisting of a $500 prize and a medallion, in ceremonies at St. Mary's on Tuesday. 
Courtis, a native of Highland, In., received the award in recog­nition of her "outstanding ac­ademic achievement and leader­ship qualities.'' She intends to pursue a career in accounting after her graduation in May. 



Classified Ads 
[continued from page 15] 

rjmand 
ou are not too bad. Victoria 
alt-1 st DiII on like your smile. Anonymous 
Snuggley-

You are absolutely the most fantastic person in the whole world. Want to get married? (I've got new satin sheets!)
Upper Class Twit 
Patty, 

Get well soon! 
AD 

A.H. 
OBITUARY 

Buuba, the dancing frog, beloved mem­ber of Murray's Massage parlor, • causes unknown. Bubba is survived b his wife, Bu bbette, and father, Murray. Services are to be held at the Parlor ;:riday 10/7/77 from 9:00pm to 2':00 am. In lieu of flowers, the Masseurs request donations of drugs. 
master's or doctoral degrees in-the mathematical, physical, medical, biological, engineering and social sciences, and in the history and philosophy of science. Awards will not be made in clinical, education, or business fields, in history or social work, for work leading to medical, dental, law, or public health degrees, or for study in joint science-professional degree pro­grams. Applicants must be citizens of the United States, and will be judged on the basis of ability. The annual stipend for Graduate Fel­lows will be $3,900 for a twelve-· month tenure with no dependency allowances. 
Applicants will be required to take the Graduate Record Examin­ations designed to test aptitude and scientific achievement. The exam­inations, administered by the Edu­cational Testing Service, will be given on December 10, 1977 at designated centers throughout the United States and in certain foreign countries. 
The deadline date for thesubmis­sion of applications for NSF Gradu­ate Fellowships is December 1, 1977. Further information and application materials may be ob­tained from the Fellowship Office, National Research Council, 2101 Constitution Avenue, Washington, D.C. 20418. 


professors." Simon admits her legal brief is unorthodox. By declining to charge specific per­sons, the suit goes beyond partic­ular manifestations of harassment to the institution which causes them: Yale University. The only legal precedent for such a charge is Cannon vs. University of Chicago Medical School, a sex discrimina­tion case that was dismissed, appealed, and dismissed again. The appeal was supported by HEW. ' 
University officials are con­temptuous of the suit. They admit to a few complaints concerning the sexual conduct of faculty members, but stress that it is an isolated phenomenon. One official, claim­ing to echo the opinion of many faculty and administrators said, "there is a strong argument that if women students aren't smart enough to know how to outwit some obnoxious professor, they shouldn't be here in the first place." 
Ronnie Alexander, who endured professorial "rape" because the man's opinion of her work was crucial to her future, is joined in the suit by Eugenia Leftwich, Lisa Stone, Ann Olivaarius and John Winkler. Both Alexander and Olivarius graduated last spring. Winkler, an assistant professor of classics, joined the suit because he refused to teach in an "atmosphere poisoned by distrust.'' Does Winkler have tenure? No, Anne 
French Club dinner meeting set for Mon. 
The French Club will hold its first dinner meeting Monday at 
5:30 pm in the faculty dining hall on the second floor of the South Dining Hall. 
All those interested in speaking French in an informal atomosphere are invited to attend. Those with questions or anyone who usually eats in North Dining Hall and wishes to attend should contact Dianne Lapeyre (8136). 

SUNDAY MASSES <Main Church> 

5:15p.m. sat. Rev. Robert Griffin C.S.C. 9:30a.m. sun. Rev. Thomas Blantz C.S.C. 
10:45 a.m. Sun.Rev. David E. Schlaver C.S.C. 
12 :15 p.m. Sun.R W"ll" . A T h C ·s C
ev. 1 1am • oo ey • . • 
Vespers will bet at 7:15 p.m. in Lady Chapel. 

Simon said -just nerve. 

Dismissing the suit as "a pub­licity seeking charge and a poor legal document," a Yale public relations spokesman predicted taht the suit would be thrown out of court. At the moment, the judge has called for additional infor­mation concerning Cannon vs. U. Chicago before rendering a written decision. When asked what the plaintiffs will have gained should their efforts fail, the PR man responded with a curt, ''three months of publicity." 

Yale Law School graduate Simon laughed when informed of Yale's opinion of her legal prowess. "It'll be more than three months,'' she· said. 
Weekdays 7:00-9:30 Sat-Sun 2:1J0..4:~7:00-9:30 ·•o passes or discount tickets 

STARTS TONITE
FOR INF0-277-1522 

"Frankly, this movie made me feel more romantic and wholesomely sexy than any movie rve seen in years. Enjoy, enjoy, Cousin Cousine." 
-Liz Smith, Cosmopolitan 
"A deUcious adult comedy about love and unchained sensuaHty." 
-Bruce Williamson, Playboy Magazine 
F~lDAY 
AT l :3 0 9:45 

SAT 1:45-3:30 s:30-9:45 
SUN 1:45-3:30 5:30-7:30 
9:45 
--STARRING­
MARIE BARRAULT 
VICTOR LANOUX MARIE FRANCE PISIER 
GUY MARCHAND 

•--SPECIAL! ---* 
One Showing Only 
Saturday 
Evening at 7:30 pm 
MAJOR STUDIO 




SNEAK PREVIEW 

NOTE! ••Come Early As 5:30 Or Late As 7:30 -See BOTH The Sneak Preview And 'COUSIN, COUSINE' 
• 

For The Price Of One!
* 


r 
14 the observer Friday, October 7, 1977 
• 
New York downs Royals, ties series 
New York [AP] • Ron Guidry pitched a brilliant three-hitter and designated hitter Cliff Johnson awakened a slumbering New York offense with a home run and double that moved the Yankees to a 6-2 victory over Kansas City last night, tying the American League cham­pionship playoff series 1-1. 
Guidry, the slender left-bander with an exploding fastball who was New York's most dependable star.: ter during the regular season, overpowered the Royals, who had walloped three home runs in win­ning the opening game of the best-of-five series. 
But it took Johnson's booming bat and a vital second chance provided when catcher Darrell Porter was unable to corral the designated hitter's foul pop to get the Yankees going. 
Left-bander Andy Hasler was nursing a 1-0 Kansas City lead and had retured 11 straight Yankee's hitters-when Johnson come to bat with one out in the fifth. The muscular New York DH popped a twisting foul near the screen and Porter was unable to snare the ball. 
That gave Johnson a second chance and he made the most of it, walloping a 1-2 pitch deep into the center field bleachers, well beyond the 417 foot sign-one of the deepest spots in Yankee Stadium. 
The shot tied the score 1-1 and brought the capacity crowd of 56,230-largest ofthe season in New York-alive. 
Hassler retired the next batter, but Willie Randolph singled to left, then trotted to second on a balk. Bucky Dent followed with another hit to left and Randolph raced home, giving the Yankees the lead for the first time. 
But the 2-1 edge lasted only as long as it took Kansas City to bat in the sixth. After Frank White struck out leading off-one of seven strike­outs Guidry had in the game-Fred Patek doubled to the base of the right field wall. Hal McRae then walked and George Brett bounced to third baseman Graig Nettles. 
Nettles threw to second for a forceout, but McRae's rolling block upset Randolph at second base and Patek continued home with the Hassler. It turned out to be a fatal mistake. 
Lou Piniella greeted Littell with a ringing single to left on the reliever's first pitch. Then Johnson driiJed a 1-1 pitch into left field, scoring Munson and putting New York in front again, this time 3-2. 
That brought up Chris Chamb­liss, who beat the Royals for the pennant a year ago with a ninth­inning, fifth-game home run a­gainst Littell. This time, the strategy was an intentional walk, loading the bases. 
Randolph followed with a shot to third that went right through Brett's legs for an error, allowing two more Yankee runs to score. 
That made it 5-2 and Guidry got another run to work with in the eighth when Jackson singled, stole second, advanced to third on a long fly and scored on Randolph's two-out single. 
The cushion was plenty for Guidry. The youngster, who rescued the Yankees' high­priced but often injury-plagued pitching staff during the regular season, mowed down the Royals and allowed only one runner after McRae walked in the sixth. 
Besides Patek's double, the only other hit off Guidry until a ninth­inning single by Brett, was a second-inning single by Frank White following a walk to Porter. 
Kansas City converted that into a run on Patek's sacrifice fly, and Hassler protected that narrow mar­gin, yielding only one hit until Johnson's huge home run in the· fifth got the Yankees going. 
The victory was particularly vital for New York because the remaind­er of the series will be played at Kansas City, where the Royals had a remarkable 38-7 record in the final three months of the regular season. 
Game Three will be played Friday night and Game Four is scheduled for Saturday afternoon. A fifth game, if needed, would be played Sunday night. 
tying run. 

The Yankees argued bitterly with umpire Mary Springstead, claim­
Ruggers demolish Illinois State 
ing interference, but the play stood. According to Baseball Rule 7.09 
, a play is ruled interference if "any batter or runner who has been put out, hinders or impedes any following play being made on a runner." In Springstead's view, the interference had not been committed, and the score was tied. 
But the Yankees untied it quick­ly. With one out in the bottom of the sixth, Thurman Munson sing­led for one of his three hits in the game. Reggie Jackson popped out, then Kansas City Manger Whitey Herzog went to his bullpen, sum­moning Mark Littell to relieve 
The ''A'' contest followed and pitted two extremely quick and well disciplined teams. Irish Captain Tony Mendiola opened the scoring with a beautiful 30 yard drop kick that is fast becoming his trade­mark. Tom Byrne added a three point penalty boot and Mike McGlinn Sr. boosted the Irish lead to 10-0 with a 15 yard gallop 
Paul White and Dave Gamache then combined some slick passes passing and hard running for a perfect scoring play while Byrne hit the extra point. The game ended with an Illinois State try and a hard-fought, 16-4, victory fcir the A squad. 
The ''B'' ruggers closed out Saturday's assault with an 8-0 shut out. Ted Howard , who also contributed bri11iantly in the "A" game, started the Irish rolling, by 

Sports
NEWS 

B-ball tryouts 
Any undergraduate interested in trying out for the 1977-78 Notre Dame basketball team should re­port to the Auxiliary Gym of the ACC on October 15 between 10 
a.m. and noon. 

Cross Country 
The Interhall cross-country meet will be held Tuesday, October 11 at 
4:30 p.m. on Burke Memorial Golf Course. Participants must present proof of insurance. 


Varsity events 
The Fighting Irish baseball team will host a tough Cincinnati squad Notre Dame Cross Country tomorrow at 1 p.m. on jake Kline Field. 
Invitational: Today at 2 p.m. on 

Burke Memorial Golf Course Baseball (Notre Dame versus Cin­cinnati): Saturday at 1 p.m. on Jake Kline Field


The Irish Eye 
Notre Dame Tennis Invitational: Saturday at 9 a.m. and 2 p.m. and Sunday at 9 a.m. on the Courtney
============:=======:==:=:::=:::::=:===::======:::=::;:;:;:;:;:::==========::====:====:============:=========:=======:=:====:::;:;:;::::=====:======: cont'd. 
Courtsby 14. GaGrotta follows Georgia by 10. 

Notre Dame Golf Invitational: Sun­Texas Tech at Arizona: The Red Raiders easily handled Arizona last year, day at 2 p.m. on Burke Memorial52-27. But, Tech has not been as good a team this so far this season. The Golf Course Wildcats are going to have a hard time downing this Tech squad, event though the Raiders have had their problems in the last few weeks. So, 
Puckster talk 
give the game to Texas Tech by 6. LaGrotta backs the Raiders by 3. 
Upset of the Week: Hockey is the theme of Speaking California at Washington State: The Golden Bears have chalked up a 4-0 of Sports this Sunday night. Gregledger so far during their 1977 campaign. The Cougars have lost their last Meredith of the Notre Dame hock­

two confrontations against Kansas and USC, respectively. Now, with a ey team and Chip Scanlon of the ,2-2 record, they will be ready for another upset in their home arena, as Notre Dame Sports Information they top the fourteenth-ranked Bears by 7. LaGrotta goes with Department will join hosts Ted Washington State by 3. 
Robinson and Frenchie Hess this 
Last Week: Ten correct and three wrong for 77 percent. Guest picker, Sunday night at 10 p.m. on WSND Tony Pace, logged the same results. 
(640).

Overall: Fourty-one right and 11 wrong for 79 percent. 
means of some textbook passing, marred, however, by the injury of with a burst through the ISU junior fullback Tim Batt, who left defense for a 40 yard score. with a punctured lung and a 
Another beautiful pass. this time fractured rib. from Nick Rache, allowed Rick The three game sweep leaves the Lane to score the final points of the Irish ruggers with a 7-4 ledger. contest as the "B'' team hano­Tonight. Notre Dame will host a ed Illinois State their second shut hard-hitting Ball State squad on out of the day. The game was Cartier field at 7 p.m. 
Irish women fall to NU, prepare for tournament 
The Notre Dame rugby club, utilizing some deft passing and superlative team play, swept three straight contests from Illinois State Saturday morning. 
With cold winds whipping across the field, action began with an 11-0 "C" squad victory for the Irish. Mike "Junior" McGlynn's twisting 25-yard jaunt and a bullish 5-yard plunge by Jim Bower opened up an 8-0 lead against Illinois State. 
Kevin Morley capped the scor­ing with a three point penalty kick which gave the Notre Dame "C" team their first shut out of the season. 

by Laurie Reising Women's Sports Editor 

For Notre Dame women's field hockey team, this season is proving to be a rough one. Last week, the Irish lost to a solid Northwestern squad.3-0, and the group has been hampered by the flu. various in­juries and missed practices due to 
midterms. 

Despite all of this, Coach Astrid Hotvedt still maintains the disposition of an optimist. "We've been playing exceptionally well; we're well charged nd I know the skill is there." 
"But. we are having problems co-ordinating our attack," Hotvedt cited. When asked if she believed the degree of competition was intense for her predominantly freshmen squad, Hotvedt declared, "We've never been outclassed. Yes, the teams we've played were good but I think we are just as talented.'' 
The coach explained the squad's low scoring record by the fact that presently the team is having trou­ble shifting from their defensive to offensive attack which forces the forwards to have a low percentage of shots on goal. 
Saturday the Irish will have a chance to rectify their situation in a round robin tournament to be held at Notre Dame. Teams from Univesitv of Wisconsin at Mil­waukee:and University of Chicago will be competing. 
The games are scheduled to begin at 12 p.m. on Cartier Field. Hotvedt anticipates good competi­tion in this tournament and and again versus St. Mary's on Monday night. The St. Mary's contest will also be played on Cartier Field with game time beginning at 7 p.m. 


Hockey tickets distributed 
A total of 1000 seats are available his own ID card. Students desiring 
as student season tickets for the adjacent seats must purchase their 1977-78 hockey season. There are tickets at the same time. three types of season tickets avail­
Prices for the tickets are a~ 
able to the students. The 13 game follows: 
pass will enable to the student to witness all the home games. Notre Dame and St. Mary's Another type of season ticket will Students: allow the student to see either the First Game of Series $7.00 Friday noght of Saturday night Second Game of Series $6.00 game of the series. Both Game of Series $13.00 Tickets will be sold on a first Notre Dame Married Students come, first served basis at the Student (Same as Above) Ticket Windows on the second floor Spouse (First Game of Series) of the ACC as follows: $10.00 Notre Dame Students-Tuesday, Spouse (Second Game of Series) October 11 and Wednesday, Octo-$9.00 ber 12 from 8:30 a.m. to 4:30p.m. Spouse (Both Game of Series) St. Mary's Students-Thursday, $19.50 October 13 from 8:30 a.m. to 4:30 No season tickets will be sold 
p.m. after October 13. Single game Each student may present only ticket are $1.50 for students . 
Navy passes to go on sale 
The Student Season Football Thursday, October 13 -Fresh­Ticket issued in September admits men one to the first twc· and last two Ticket Window hours are from home games, but rot the NAVY 8:30-a.m. to 4:30 p.m., including game, which is during midsemes-the noon hour. To receive your ter break. NAVY ticket, you must present 
Notre Dame and St. Mary's your student ID plus the four game students ·desiring a ticket for the student ticket already issued to NAVY game for their personal use you. One student may represent must report to Ticket Windows ~our applications for adjacent seat­number one and two on the second mg. floor of the ACC according to the-The charge for the tickets for following schedule: Notre Dame graduate and law Monday, October 10-Seniors . students, and the spouse of a Notre Tuesday, October 11 -Juniors, Dame student is $3.25. The charge Graduate and Law Students for St. Mary's students is $6.50, Wednesday, October 12 -Sopho-while there is no charge for all mores Notre Dame undergraduates. 
_I 

' 1 ' . NOTICE LOST: one purple jacket with white pirate So. Cal vs N D football tickets Oct 22· Friday, October 7, 1977 the obsetirer 15 
and ~iltonvale. Call ~ike 1679. Sprt'sTour3050~. 7th Street L.A. Calif.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ LEARN TO PLAY POCKET BILLIARDS ------------------90005 {213) 384·1951. 
IN THE POOLROOM OF LAFORTUNE FOUND: silverwire· rimmed glasses out· Will pay$$ Also could use 4 tix for any STUDENT CENTER UNDER THE stide the Huddle on Oct. 4 To claim them home game. HUDDLE. JUST SEE THE STUDENT call Diane 7883. -----------------­

Classified Ads 
MANAGER ON DUTY FOR HELP. ------------------NEEDED: 1-4 tix for Army Game. Call ------------------LOST: National Semiconducter Calculater Maria 1318. Part-Time· Choose your own hours. in O'Shag reward Call 3336 or 3333. ------------------GIRLS I 0 rganlzatlona meeting for all Interesting, good paying positions with -----------_,____ --HELP!! Need Ride to Boston {or vicinity) Interested in women's swim club. new local magazine. Must have car. Call for Oct. Break. ~ ust know before Oct. 8 Thursday, Oct. 13, at 7:30 pm In Library 
Dan 272·5549 after 5pm. WANTED Call John 6657 Will share expenses. 
DESPERATELY NEED 1 USC GA TIX WANTED: 2 GA Navy tix for parents. 
Can't Skate? Try Broomball 18 brooms DOUG 3336 or 3333. You won't be here, they will. Call Bob 
provided. lcerink 8416. -------------------234·0682. 
------------------WANTED: Several tickets to Army game. ------------------
Calllynchie at 1424. USC student or GA tix wanted. ~est 
Student or Grad student with wrestling ------------------coast clients will pay premium. 272·7360 
experience to coach high school wrestl­NEED RIDE, to Boston ·Providence area after 6 p.m. 
ing-Contact Mike Nolan at Lalumiere for October Break Will pay, drive. Call -----------------­
school-phone 362-2248 or 324·7069. Pat 4-4146 Need tix for any home game. Call Sharon 
------------------------------------1261' 
WANTED: 4 GA USC tix Call Frank ----------------­
Accurate, Fast Tvping Mrs. Donoho 287·3844 pay top dollar! Addressers Wanted 1M MED lATELY! 
232-0746 Hours 8a1n or 6pm. -----~--------~---Wrok at home·· no experience necessary· 
------------------Need 2 ~A tickets for Navy & A1r Force excellenty pay. ~rite American Service, 
Call Cla1re 289-6533. 8350 Park Lane, Suite 269 Dallas, Tx 
U. of Mich. grad. in Russian will tutor ------------------75231. Russian students. Studied in Leningrad. -----------------­
Call 683·4332 or 233-9948. Ask for NEED 1 ticket {student or GA) to Air NEED SIX SOUTHERN CAL TIX. Mark Melanie Lewis. Force game. Please Call 4-4809. 
NEED 2-4 GA tix for Army game at NEED SIX GA CLEMSON TIX Call Leo NEED QUALITY TYPING? Executary, Meadowlands. Call Jim 1185. 287·7051 Inc. Professional Typing Service IBM -----------------------------------­Correcting Selectrics $.85/page minim-DESPERATE: Need a ride to tallahassee WANTED: 2 Student USC tickets will pay urn Call 232-0898 "When you want the area at start of October Break. Will share $. Call Suzy or Diane 5148. Best". expenses and driving. Call Bill 8858. -----------------­------------------------------------DESPERATE:Need motel room USC EXPERIENCED TYPIST FOR MORE Please-Need Football tix to any home weekend. Call Jane 4872. INFORMATION* PLEASE CALL 272-game. Call289-6255. -----------------­2819. ------------------Need 2 GA tickets for USC. Call Cyndi at ------------------Rich friends from USC will pay .$ for 2·4 6369. EXPERIENCED MINSTRELS. Serena-student or GA USC tickets Call Judy -----------------­ding a specialty. Call Ringo and Jester 7375. 20 reps sought f0r freshman Class 8243. ------------------Council Elections. 1'1 minations happen­------------------WANT$$? Need So. Cal vs. N D football ing now. Questions& ~all Maria-5774. ABSOLUTELY THE BIGGEST JUNIOR tix Oct. 22. Sport's tour at 3050 W. 7th-----------------­LEAGUE THRIFT SHOP SALE EVER. Street, LA. Calif. 90005. Call {213) I NEED 2 GA U.S.C. th name price. Call ST. JOSEPH COUNTRY ~-H FAIR 384-1951. Could also use 4 tix for any 8182. GROUND SAT. OCT 8 9am to 4:30pm. home game. -----------------­OVER 30,000 ITEMS* NEW & USED ------------------NEED RIDE TO WOl'lSOcket. R.I. for CLOTHING* FURNITURE* TOYS DESPERATELY NEED 1 USC ticket Call Oct. break. ~ill shar, expenses. Call HOUSEWARE* PLANT & BAKE SHOPS 4-4101. Pete 8619. MASTERCHARGE AND VISA CARDS -----------------------------------­ACCEPTED FREE PARKING* .FREE Will be disown.;j by parents if I don't get SAVE MY LOVE LIFE ! Need 3 GA USC ADM ISS ION. 2 USC tix. Will pay$$$$ Call Greg at tix for girlfriend ar, i parents! Call 
------------------1217. ROCCO 1386. 
Attention-talented or otherwise persons -----------------------------------­
interested in performing in the Nazz-~e Wanted SC tirlrets, will pay premium. NEED 1 GA ticket to USC any price. Call 
have openings. Call John at 1575 for info. Call collect (714)-498-3000. 1043. 
I need 2 G.A · or the Navy game. John-Help! Desperately need 2-5 USC tickts 
LOST AND FOUND -1184, call after 6 pm. Maryanne 3887. 
Lost: One nunkie·Louie between BP and -----------------------------------­
NJ. NEED 1-5 USC GA tickets. Good Money. HELP! Desperate Damsel Direly Desires 
------------------Call Kevin 8713. a ride to BOSTQN/N. England for Break. 
Found: My Gubbernut from NJ at BP. ------------------Will share expenses. Make like a hero. 
------------------Desperately need 3 or 4 tickets to U.S.C. Call Ana. 8525 FOUND: One student football ticket game Call 287-8479.YOU NAME THE -----------------­outside Rocco's Call Observer office to PRICE! Need ride to Kansas after USC game. Wil identify. ------------------share expense. Call Mike 1679 
G S0C

------------------Need 2-6 A t;~•<ets for Tech or al -----------------­LOST OR STOLEN: Brown, suede Me, game. r ·· t 1133. WANTED: one pair of football shoes, size Gregor coat on Oct. 3 South Dining Hall ---·. ·· --· -----------10%-11 Tom 8270 return and no questions asked. 272-5786. N~ed nde t ;h D.C. area for break-----------------­
------------------W1ll shar $, •g. Call Marty 8389 LOST: Black leather wallt need license ---------------FOR SALE 
and other ID. Reward call Robert 1465. NEED 3 U::, \ET* GA OR STU 
------------------·DENT. Call J 1. Dollar an inch. Call "Micro" Tim 
LOST: black leather wallet in ACC. ___..,........,.._ --------Malloy, 6802. Bring change.
· k

Personal items are important to owner. THEN AVE (· ho need t1c et 1or-----------------­Please return, call 3116. . . the Navy Gan . . ! 1 2 GA tickets AUDIO OUTLET: Top name stereo ------------------Call Martha, 11 :1BR · -----------------­FOUND: pair of girls shoes at the DT --~-..;,...__ __..:_ _____ Pandora's has new & used books for section party in Morrissey Friday night Wanted: 4 USC ke. Will pay good many ND classes And, a two for one sale Call 3414. bucks. Call Jim at •4 on their literature books Open 11 to 7 ------------------------------------daily.LOST: an Economics notebook Sunday NEED 2 Southern Cal .. Beth 272-2340. -----------------­
night at Stepan Center. Sept.25 Must -------------------TICKETS FOR SALE: Two G.A. basket­have-caii:John1776. · N~EDEO: Five GA ti for USC Call balltickets,forBestoffer.CaiiGref,1159 ------------------Telana-4~5745. -----------------­FOUND: men's leather jacket Call 679-----:-----------....:.----HEAD Professional Tennis Racket Less 4955 and identify. · H I;Y EA~T C 0 AST 1 th?n 1 gr. o_ld new gut Strings new leather 
------------------Wanted ·2-4 Army t1x Call Marylou 6845. gnp cover Included Call 283-8619 
----...-------------------------------­
LOST: one set of keys at or near I WILL BE FOREVER INDEBTED TO Lafortune Student Center on Thurs. Call YOU if you sell a pair of GA tickets for the Bill 233-3743. . . . U.S.C. game. My parents want ~o come 
PERSOWALS 

-------------------and .cheer for old Notre Dame. W1ll pay$ FOUND: on sidewalk 1976 Holy Cross $$.Call Mary 1313. Kath preparatory class ring Call Denise 4-5402. --:-:---=-----------:-----Hap/y' 19th B-dayl Celebrate, but be 
------------------WANTED:one Student USC t1cket. Call more careful· this time! LOST: one SMC class ring, initials CFH Chukck at 1436. love, 
78. Reward. 4-5143 Cathy · -·. __.;,_.....,~------------:--Chrissy & Peggy ------------------:-WANTED: Desperately need 6G·.A. t1x to-----------------­
LSOT: umbrella-brown~ off-white Call any home game. Call Chris at 1158· Stimulating Sisters 'elated Thanks for John~84~{ar~nd~~~te)______ Need-4UscG.A.tl~-~iii pa;-$.c;ji your kind generosdy at Donu! OeliQht. 
LOST: brown leather wallet in Engineer R_on 1423.. ~ Thanks Bob 
Aud: need drivers license and J.D. for F.b ...---7'"'--------------.-----------------­
games please return call 3506. .. ~ANTED:· sic GA tickets to ~SC. Call Gay Commu~lty at N.D.Gulde to N.D./ ---------------..,...--Jeanne at 4-4001. S.B. Pandora s or Bos 206 N.D. 
LOST: genetics textbook please Call ------------------------:------------cont· d 1 k 'th THE M 1 
289-0175. ~ANTED: 4 GA tickets for _Southern Gay Community of N.D. lnfoline Fri. & ------------------Cal. Will·pay 9ood bucks. Call1423, ask Sat. 8-12 p.m. 11 1170. LOST: Irish wedding ring (Ciaddagh), tor Mike. · ---·-----:---:--------­
jade and diamond with gold band. CalL_......,......... ______________ Ellen Buddy ~ K1m F1sh are full of Jacks. Mary Ann 4057. Reward. .~ANTED:. 5 USC tickets Call Paul at-----·~------.--.---­------------------1424. · . . A bootie of 1ne and Schneider IS a super LOST: Green raincoat w/ld at party on St. ------------------time. Louis Friday nite Call Kathy Phone 1250 ~ilf pay$$ for 2 GA Georgia Tech. tix -----------------­-------~--------Mark 8927.. Rose ..viii be Red and Budd will be Blue. If 
FOU NO: one Big Red flag, Saturday on -:----:-;,_-------:------you'd .Qent 8 months with Rose you'd be Green field ne.:r Dillon Keggar. Calt~llfpay$$forYzGAUsctlxMark8927.Biue too. 1692. ------------------6&7 Flanner 
------------------Will trade 2 USC tix for 2 Army tix Call -----------------­LOST: one Econ and one Criminolog-y liz 4-4708.. Eight months, it seems lik~ a .year But 
notebook in North Dining Hall. if found ---......,-.-------------many a week ~hen Budd dldn t shed a Call Jim 1185. NEEDED: 3 Army tickets (preferably tear. . ------------------together.) Call John before Oct.11 6827 An ex-fnend. 
FOUND: ID bracelet. 256-0819. Please -----------------------------------­call to identify NEED TIX FOR ANY HOME GAME. CHIEF AND MOM LANG* 
------~-----------Will PAY Call1276. WELCOME TO ST. MARY'S. HOPE LOST: silver ID bracelet at football game ------------------YOU BROUGHT SOME CALIFORNIA Sat. If found call Ellen 7962. Please help!! Desperately need ride to St. SUNSHINE. 
------------------Louis ·Southern Illinois area Fri. Oct. 7 ,
LOST: 1 pair of gold-rimme Bi-focal Will pay, drive. Call Julie 8527. P.S., IT REALLY DOESN TRAIN HERE glasses at Pep Rally. Contact Kevin 1391. ------;------------ALL THE TIME. 
auditorium. Questions contact Women's Athletic Deoartment or Call 8051 wATCH..OUT-SOUTHBEND-sicKiEs! 
RUMOR HAS IT THAT THEY ARE 
LETTING NURSE NANCY LANG PRAC, 
Dillon Men, You're the greatest! Thanks alot, Hutch 

Up-date The A.M.A. has proclaimed that: Jules 'Leen Jane Ooze Colleen Carol 
TICE UPON YOU. RUN FOR YOUR Will become the finest nurses. Congrat-LIV ES. u lations! 
Co;gratui;tio;;;N;r;~-;ncy-:-;ay -;~ ----------------C A K 
never have to pract1ce on yourse If-M . beth H or n 
P S Do 't drop o cap 1 1 ar I •
· · n Y ur · -Welcome to Lyons {finally) and happy Sh;Ro;fr;m-;-Budd~hi;-;nroiled' at birthday! Old age is creeping up onLyou 1 
. . ove,S~ C the relat1onsh1p grew Steady and Barb Anita Jenni & Annie QUICk ' ' 
CGMitch--------------­
------------------To the best R.A. ever. Party much? 
Stevie, .Fom all your kids in 2T.
Is that flashing light In 1011 Flanner _.:.._ ________________ 
1

Hope you ve learned your lesson. Don T north Lewis app11caition 
red?!  Nan  
A.F.C. Thanks f  -or  the hap Love,  . p1est p  Guess who . art .. of my 1_1f~; Your G1rl  so now you're 22 and a Cadet: Hope you're enjoying it. Quit falling on your face in fron ot Rosie's and remeber BIG BROTHER is watching. An abused little sister.  
Grace.  ,  ,  Kevi; {3320);;,tot kn~-abouthis-;  

MESS ~ITH THE BEST. Dillon 
Dillon Spon Bike·a-thon for Grace Hall ! ! 
Crhistmas Shop with AVON Kathy 7947 
Need ride to Fr. Wayne Friday for AEROSIVIITH$ Jim 3684 
Wo .: " Woman, GouJ. luck on Saturday! Dancing Bear and M ikey 
SANDi'.."'identifie7~1t'h-;-F-;mous-SCHLEFERA plant in 2pNorth Keenan. I'd like to talk with you again Joe-3262 
_____________.:._ _____:_ 
LEWISIO'S open this Friday at 7pm fine food & entertainemtn 
ph~~3735~~~~~~~o~s/inf~--­
Dear Campus, Help remove Grace use PreparationH 
NOTRE DAME BOWLING LEAGUE IS NOW FORMING. THURSDAY NIGHTS* &:00 pm, regal lanes in Mishawaka. Call 288_2614. 
Brigid: In the 3 years I've known you, this is the 1st time I've ever remembered your
birthday. I suppose now that youre 21, you deserve to be remembered. After all, 
~~~~e~~ them count till21, do they? Best Okie from Tulsa (not Muskogee) 
Heat~-;-.------------­
I'm available and can't wait to meet you!
Michael 

To____Di~~---Da~ny~--­1really fell for you at the Morrissey 2c party. Thanks for the memories Love, Rae. 
DiOo;--------------­You can keep our Pres. but please dont disturb our sttJdying time again.
G 

race Gian;lli="-------------­Whether on the Braves' roster or the 
Trading block, You'll always be a formidable phoque belated bonne anni­versaire. 
Les Phoques Phantastiques 

M~~;---C---;-;;-d--Joh-;--P. 
Happy 1st Anniversary L Lisa and K~~~Y 

Mom & Dad, Thanks for making my dream become a reality. 
------------Love.:__~~ 
Long Ta II, Happy 20th, roomie ! Hope this year brings good times and happiness ... and 
------------------My dad hasn t been here for 25 years.------------------D'll LOST: brown wallet 1n A(;(; racquetDall Plene need 1 GA USC tix. Call Mark 20 Keg Party-Saturday night 923 Notre' Pl1 on, Re-kidnap me Grace s·-ks! court Reward. Call Mark 1723. 8918. Dame Ave. Schlitz Malt. ease 
Jerry 
mue uc WI AN· LittiLeoovnee 

oeares 1 RickY_ So that all of France may know and understand how much 1 love my grizzly-J e t ·aim e! 
Forever yours, Cyndi 

Creep-? 
Thanks f II th I d 
or a e ove an concern you

have shown me. I will always remeber 
you especially on Saturday. Love, Creep minus 0 
To my GAH Lover in Japan~ill you _ _ _ m'e? R C M 
---------------~~~ 
Carey, Please see the Easter Pigs. Your eggs are 
ready. 
C& P. 
. 

Happy Birthday Mom 1 You're the best. See you at break. Love, Katie 
T.J. W .(lightweight) Don't be embarrassed just because the whole campus knows I drank you under the table. ~here's my case of Stroh's? I know you coulnd't drink it! P.S. Dose she really kiss that bad? 
The Hard Core 

Doozer {a ias Mrs. S.L.D*W*B*) Better late tnan never! 'Only is? And all this time you told them you were 21! Have a happy weekend and try not to ~et
proposed to ag~1~! 
xxoox · · 

Rosie Dosie, Happy 20th Birthday Love Franny Bananny Lori Dori 
To the two hot blooded latins, Happy Birthday and to celebrate, do we EAT DRINK OR? Love, the six fat horny little pigs 
Kevin Holt, Happy Birthday! {Is this low key enough? the delay is part of the plan) ~e still love you. Anita, Bar, Jenni and Annie. 
Make your weekend exciting. Call Julie for_a_fre_e_guided_to_ur_of_South_Be_nd_.5824 
Nurse Betty's Congratulations! You finally made it. The Stienes. 
Joey, Thanks for the flowers. We love you! Nano, Lucy, Lisa ,Connie 
Pant Stone, HAPPY BIRTH DAY! Although we're one day early, it's never too late for you to "trip"a30-incher!MeetyouattheACC! Happy Hunters Patti, Joyce &MaryAnne 
Dear Jane K. 
Congratulations and best of luck on your capping. Thanks for yur very special friendshi. Love, 
Kathleen M. 

Tom McNertney gooses mooses on Saturday nights. 
Debby and Lisa Congrats on your capping. You both deserve if {so did Florence) Love, Cinday and Patty 
Nanne, Mary ?Geralyn Congratulations to the future Florence Nightengales. 
Love, Anrie and Jane 

T.J. I guess I can't say you're awwful. Your Student. 
Elroy, Thanks for putting up with m_e Your Room1e 
Sue Bear, Happy 19th and Happy year in France. Miss you, MFK and Missy lots. Love. J.B. 
L Ynchie, Happy, happy Birthday! We may be in love. 
Jenni, Annie, Barb, and Anita. 

Dear Mystery Person, Thanks for the serenade Wednesday nite. ~ish "I could read your mind!" Anne M ·204 
[continued on page 13] 


Friday, October 7, 1977
16 the observer 

Notre Dame harriers to host 45 opponents in invitational 

by Greg Solman Sports Writer 
All ears will be tuned for the im­pending pitch ... intense concentra­tion toward hearing the sound will replace the butterflies that make their unwelcome guest appearance at times like these. A hard swallow will combat the dryness in the throats of a hundred anxious men .. and the sound of"-starters gun will begin the stampede. 
When the gun sounds to signify start of this years Notre Dame lnvi­
' 

I ".
I , 
!-; 
I( rational this afternoon, the report I~ might just be heralding the start of 
I)"' 
a new era in Notre Dame cross-country history. For although to­day's race will somewhat resemble the twenty-one that annually pre­ceded it, this may be the first time to memory that Notre Dame has had a strong chance of coming in on top. 

"We are hoping to record our best finish in recent history," pointed out Irish Coach Joe Piane, "and I'm confident that we will do well in the meet." 
For Irish harriers Steve Welch, Qennis VanderKraats, Dan Hogan, Charlie Fox, Mike Maney, Chuck Aregon and Pat Sullivan, the race will probably mean as much, if not more than to Piane. They are run­ners who by virtue of their strong performances in the first two meets of the year, will take on the chal­lenge of Burke Memorial Golf 
Course today at 2 p.m. 

·Runnning with the Irish squad will be similar ones from about 45 other schools throughout the East and Midwest. The Notre Dame In­vitational is the largest cross-coun­try invitational in the nation ... and 
generally accepted is the maxim that the larger the race, the more pressure exists. 
Veterans Steve Welch, Dennis VanderKraats and Dan Horgan have experienced this type of pressure before, and respond well in spite of it. 
In fact, Dennis VanderKraats 
24:16 time was good enough for 24th place last year, as the Irish placed 13th in the meet -but Piane will be the first to remind you that this is a diffetent squad than last year's. 
"The veterans on this squad will run better than their usual races," 

· Paul Stevenson==:=:=:::======================:==:=::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;-;:;:;:;.;::=:·===========:=============================================:::====::========:===================:=======:=:=:=:=:======::=:====:====:=:=:=:=:=:=:::::=:=:=::::::·__ .;.-: 0 :_:-_:;::::===,:::;.;::=:=::::·=:=:=:=:=:=: 

The Irish Eye 
=:=·=:::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;::.::=:=:=:=:::::::::::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:::::::::=:=:=:=:=:=:=:::=====:====::::=:=:=:=:::::::::=:::=:=:=:=:=:::::=:=:=:=======:===:=:=:::=:=:=:::===:=:::::=:=:=:::;.;:;:;:;:;::=::;:;:;:;:::::::::;:;:;:;:;::::::::::::::::::======:===:====· FootbaII Picks 

Fighting Irish football players, coaches and fans can enjoy their weekend of leisure as another Saturday of college football approaches. Last week, a lot of reshuffling occurred in the pols as two of the top ten teams were defeated. 
Meanwhile, the Irish dominated Michigan State im most categories, but only downed the Spartans by ten points. This feat did enable Notre Dame to advance to eleventh place in the AP rankings. 
Southern Cal has claimed top honors in both wire service polls. Their ranking will be tested tomorrow as the Trojans battle Bear Bryant and the Crimson Tide. In addition, number-two ranked Oklahoma will be challenged by Texas, the highest scoreing team in the nation. 
Notre Dame cannot help themselves but only observe their comrades and just prepare for their clash with Army next weekend. So, with another slate of major competition, and the aid of Frank LaGrotta, the Italian Stallion, here are the Irish Eye's picks for tomorrow's gridiron action. Oklahoma at Texas; These two opponents tied last season at six, but, the last time they tangled in Dallas, the Sooners emerged victorious. The key call in that matchup was Head Coach Barry Switzer's decision to quick kick late in the game with the ball deep in Sooner territory. Tomorrow's clash matches the second and fifth rated teams, with Oklahoma being <;tight favorites by some oddsmakers. Texas has the highest scoring team in the country, however, they have not played a tough opponent. Oklahoma proved themselves against Ohio State, but has not been overly impressive in other contests. Texas can put the points on the board, especially if the Sooners maintain their fumbling pattern. With the hometown edge, this battle should go to the Longhorns by 6. LaGrotta backs Texas by 7. Air Force at Navy: This will definitely be quite a battle between these two service academies. The Air Force downed the Middies last season, 13-3. This game will be close, but George Welsh and his fleet should be able to shoot down the Air Force by 6. LaGrotta goes with the Middies by 7. Oklahoma State at Colorado: The Buffalos are rated sixth in the country by the AP, but this ranking will be challenged as Colorado tackles Terry Miller and Company. Colorado has only played Stanford, Kent State, New Mexico and Army. Oklahoma State will give the Buffalos a major test. Colorado won last year's match up and should repeat that performance by 
10. LaGrotta goes with Oklahoma State by 6. Dartmouth at Yale: This wil1 be another great Ivy League contest. The Bulldogs, expected to be a true title contender by inside source Ken Ryder, fell to Miami of Ohio last Saturday. The Big Green wil1 give Yale a· 
related Piane,"I can say this with 
all confidence, having seen them 
run before under these kinds of 
conditions." 

However, the freshmen, Fox, 
Maney, Aragon and Sullivan, have 
not been in such a big race be­
fore, and Piane is justifiably con­
cerned with how this will affect 
them this afternoon. 

''All four of these freshmen had 
two really fine dual meets to start 
out the season," he commented. 
"But this is their first really big 
meet, a different situation. How­
ever, they did run well in their re­
spective state meets when in high­
school, and I have confidence in 
them." 

Mike Maney is one of those 
freshmen, and he admitted that he 
was "pretty nervous" about the 
race, but was confident that he 
would perform up to his capa­. bilities. 
"These fresmen have done an 
excellent job, admitted Piane. 
"We returned five lettermen this 
year and these fotAr freshmen have 
moved into the top seven spots.'' 
Of the forty fiv< teams compet­
ing, not all of ther•1 will be placed in 
the strongest , ·vision (the blue 
one), where Not c Dame has been 
spotted. At 3 p.m , the next 
twentyfive team~ will run the five 
mile course, ancl.~l Sporn., an open 
race will be held · )r anv team that 
wishes to compt·tt~. A ~pecial race 
ar S p.m. is dock ·ted for area high 
school teams. 

Among stronger competition for 
the Irisl.• tomorow will be the teams 
from Western Michigan, Michigar, 
Eastern Michigan. Drake. 
"I expect the field to be ex­
tremely competitive, a good warm-
up for the national qualifiers in 
November," the confident Irish 
mentor commented. "I think our 
finsih will be a great indicator of 
how we will fare in big meets 
throughout the remainder of the 
season." 

The Irish are presently coming 
off two strong victories over Purdue 
and Michigan State, and are well 
on their way to achieving their 
preseason goal of qualifying an 
entire team for the NCAA tourn­
ament, November 21, in Spokane, 
Wahsington. This, according to 
Piane, should be a good warmup 
for his runners, a chance to 
experience the heavy pressure that 
big meets bring with them. 
Golfers await tourney 
by Tom Desmond gram-winner Dave Knee as he 
Sports Writer registered a two-over par 286 for 
the tournament in winning the gold 
The Fighting Irish golf team will medallion. The silver medallion be out to defend their Notre Dame went to last year's champion Tim Invitational title this Sunday as the Suars as the junior needed just Irish host 11 schools in the annual three more shots to traverse the 72 fall competition to be contested on-holes than champion Knee did. the Burke Memorial Course. Third place went to golf team 
Last fall, the Irish bested nine captain Rich Knee, the older teams in establishing a tournament brother of this year's titleholder. record of 373 for the eighteen-hole The senior finacnce major tallied event. Then freshman John Lund-290 in what was a highly competi­gren set the individual standard as tive event. he fired an even-par 71 to take In the squad's only tournament medalist honors. action thus far the Irish finished 
"We hope to do as well this third in the Indiana Intercollegiate Sunday as we did last year but our Championships held last week at job will tougher with the expanded the Golf Club of Indiana in Zions­field," riotes Irish Coach Noel ville. Tim Suars lead the way for th O'Sullivan. "One team in particu-Irish as he posted rounds of 77 and lar that we have to be wary of is 72 in sthe 36-hole event to capture Illinois State and their number one second place. man Jerry Vidovic." Vidovic is the Along with Illinois, other teams reigning United States Golf Associ-to watch will be Northern 111inois, ations Public Link champion. Purdue and the University of 
"We have had some solid perfor-Wisconsin-Milwaukee. Northern mances this fall, in the Notre Dame. Illinois captured the Invitational Open and in the dual meets and the title two years ago and U-W one tournament we've had," Milwaukee was runner-up last fall. O'Sullivan commented further, Purdue finished ahead of the Irish "I've got to be optimistic." at the State tournament last week. 
The Notre Dame Open saw 68 This Sunday's tournament will players complete the four rounds in wrap up the fall season for Coach the tournament that provides the O'Sullivan's team and will go far in campus' top golfer. This year the setting the tone for the longer and honor went to sophomore mono-more difficult spring season. 
Men 1S IH play continues 
by Terrence Mannion Sports Writer 

Old and new powers of the men's interhall football league were tested once again Wednesday night at Cartier Field. Pangborn fell to Dillion, 20-0, in the first game, Off-Campus bested Sorin in a protested contest, 12-0, Fischer downed Morrissey, 6-0, and Alum­ni lost to St. Ed's-Howard, 14-0. 
A strong defense and a tough playing offense led the Big Red of Dillion to their third straight victory this season. Although Pangborn had won the last two meetings between the two squads, it did not show on Wednesday. Jamie Helper scored twice on short runs to lead the offense, while Chris Pearson and Brian Crowley each picked off passes to lead the defensive unit for Dillon. 
The only bright points for Pang-
tough battle, but the Bulldogs should bounce back on the winning track by 
3. LaGrotta follows Yale by 3. Purdue at Ohio State: The Boilermakers are good for at least one upset every year. Purdue failed against the Irish and they haven't had their opportunity against Michigan. The Buckeyes smashed Southern Methodist last Saturday, but probably still are not satisfied with that one blemish on their ledger. Purdue will have to go another week without an upset. The Buckeyes should chalk up another victory tomorrow by 14. Alabama at Southern Cal: The Trojans have taken over the top spot in both wire service polls and will have to prove they are worthy of their ranking tomorrow. The Crimson Tide has a strong team which has only faltered once this year, that being against Nebraska. The game will be tight, but USC should triumph and retain their position in the polls by 7. LaGrotta goes with the Trojans by 6. Pittsburgh at Florida: The Panthers have been scoring points like they are going out of style. The Gators fell victim to Louisiana State last Saturday and will have a hard time bouncing back into the win column. Pittsburgh has been impressive after their opener with the Irish, even thought hey have not been playing the highest caliber teams. The game will be rough in Gatorland, but give the matchup to the Panthers by 7. LaGrotta goes with Pittsburgh by 7. Michigan at Michigan State: The Wolverines proved they were a championship team when they thrashed Texas A&M last weekend, 41-3. Michigan State could not mount any great offensive threats against the Irish last week and it looks doubtful that they would be able to successfully atack Michigan. The game will be in East Lansing and the Wolverines are coming off a big win, so the game should be closer than expected. However, give the contest to Michigan by 10. LaGrotta goes with the Wolverines by 17. Stanford at UCLA: The Br!-Jins evened their record at 2-2 with their victory over Iowa last weekend. Stanford fell to UCLA last year by 38-29 mark and although they will keep the game close, they will suffer the same fate again tomorrow. So, give this rivalry to the Bruins by 12. LaGrotta goes with UCLA by 10. Mississippi at Georgia: The Rebels have had a poor season, except for their victory over the Irish, which obviously they enjoyed so much. they do not care what happens in the remainder of the season. Georgia still cannot believe that this up and down Rebel team defeated them last year. The contest will be truly southern battle', but the Bulldogs should triumph 
[continued on page 14] 
born, whose record dropped to U-2-l, were the performances of quarterback John Franko, who ptcked up most of Pangborn's yardage with his passing, and Steve Del Greco who played a fine game at defensive end, although suffering from a broken finger. 
St. Ed's-Howard dominated both the offensive and defensive aspects of the Alumni game to raise their record to 2-1. Dan Tranel threw for one touchdown, a 25 yard strike to John Dziminski, and ran for another as he directed his team to another win. St. Ed's-Howard also threatened twice in the second half, bringing the ball inside the 10 yardline, but they were stalled both times by penalties. Terry Hawkins performed wi11 at quarter­back and Mike Van Ecker seemed to be on the ball constantly at his middle linebacker position for Alumni. 
Fisher eked out their victory against Morrissey in what was probably the most defensively dominated game ofthe four played. 
Although" Fisher mounted three drives that took them inside the twenty yard-line, mistakes and a tenacious Morrissey defense stopped the team each time. 
Morrissey defensive standouts Glen Sturm, Dan Murphy, and Mike Allare were the major causes for the strong Fisher backfield's inability to score. Fisher's winning touchdown came on a punt blocked by Bence and recovered by Rocky Stapleton who took it in for six during the second quarter. Mor­rissey's downfall was caused by their inability to put together a sustained drive because of mental and physical errors. 
In the most controversial and hard-hitting of the games, Off­Campus apparently defeated Sorin 12-0. At the start of the fourth quarter Off-Campus had a punt blocked by Sorin which was picked up and advanced by an Off-Campus player. Although the referee disallowed the yardage gained, he gave the ball back to the Off­Campus team with a first down. The Interhall Sports Office has announced that the protest lodged against this play by Sorin will probably go through. 
The fourth quarter will be re­played only if it is needed to decide the final standings. In the game itself, the only score in the un­protested part of the game came on a sixty yard draw by Dave Betlack. The touchdown scored by Off-Campus in the final quarter came on a thirty-five yard quarter­back draw by Matt Ratterman. 





