-~~~--~~-~-------­
Junlor,Sophomore elections result in runoff 
Flynn voted senior class president 
lq.Kosemary Mills 
Staff Reporter 
With what senior class president Rob Tully called, "the biggest margin I've ever seen," Pat Flynn was elected the new senior class president yesterday with 79percent of the total vote. The rest of Flynn's ticket consists of v.p. Mary Lou Mulvihill of Walsh, Rob Kef­fler of Grace, treasurer, and Sue Bailey of Breen-Phillips, secretary. 
A total of 823 juniors voted for a class turnout of 48.4 percent. Flynn beat out competitor Victoria Warren, Victor Yeandel, Brian Cronin and Terry Donahue by a margin of6SS to 168 votes. 
When asked for a comment on his victory, Flynn replied, "I'm just really happy. It wasn't one party against another, it was both parties for the class. We're all just really excited." 
Both the junior and sophomore elections resulted in a runoff. The run-off elections will be held Thurs­day, March 31. Voting will take place at the same time and all election rules will remain the same. 
In the race for junior class officers, the final contest will be between the tickets of Andy Mc­Kenna and Pat Donley. With 52 percent of the sophomore class voting, McKenna's ticket received 348 votes, or 37 percent. Donley with 342 votes, garnered 36.5 percent of the 938 votes cast. The third ticket, consisting of Laurie McNulty, Tim Cisar, Tony Pace, and Donna Ziemba, received 248 votes, or 26.4 percent. "It was a very good race," commented Tully. 
McKenna, a resident of the CCE, has proposed, according to the March 28 issue of the Observer, "more class functions where peo­ple can meet and mix in large numbers." The remainder of his ticket consists of Sue Flanigan of Farley, Kathie Fitzpatrick of Lewis and McKenna's roommate in the CCE, Terry Frick. Specific class functions proposed by the slate include trips to the Pittsburgh game, a White Sox game in Chicago, happy hours and tailgat­ers, and a ski trip. 
Donley, a Dillon Hall resident, also stressed the importance of class functions and social activities "centered on or around campus" to insure accessibility for all juni­ors. Running with Donley are Maureen Sullivan, of Lewis, Mar­nie Brehmer of Badin, and Michael Schlageter of Grace Hall. 
The freshman class will vote on Thursday to decide between the tickets of Casey Hammond and Andy Herring. Herring received 314 votes of the total 1,026 posted for a total of 29.4 percent. He was followed closely by Hammond with 292 votes, or 27.3 percent. The remainder of the tickets were: Tony Aquelino -281 votes, write-in candidate John Muldoon-91 votes ann Rob Bush -78 votes. 
According to Tully, due to the closeness of the sophomore candi­date race, the ballots have been separated and placed into piles according to the presidential can­didate's name. These ballots will be available for a recount if one is demanded. 
Hammond's ticket, consisting of Jose Marrero, A.J. Wood, and Trish Bertke, proposes the organ­ization of many social activities within the class. They also consider service activities import­ant. A main goal of Hammond's is to bring the Sophomore Literary Festival under the control of the class officers. 
Herring, Ellen Dorney, Susie Meyers, and Chris Ritchie, seek to appeal to the individual interest of each sophomore and incorporate their ideas into a class function. They commented that there is a need to balance hall and class activities, plus to include service activites. Another proposal is to better communication within the class by increasing the efficiency of the Sophomore Advisory Council. 
The class elections were run by the senior class officers in conjunc­tion with the senior ~visory coun­
cil. "We tried to imtJrove on the problems ·of last year," stated Tully. '"Although everyone ran a clean campaign, we did have a few complaints about over-spending." 
All complaints were investigated by election commissioner T.J. · ­Hughes, but none of the tickets was fined for overspending. Reports on the budgets of the individual slates are available. 
John Reid, assistand director of Student Activities, stressed the importance of Thursday's voting. "I would hope for a large turnout for the runoff election," he stated. "The st1,1dents are voting for the officers of their own class." Reid also complimented the election committee on their hard work and"a job well done." 

J 


server 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's Vol. XI, No. 104 ·Wednesday, March 30, 1977 

SALT talks resume; Soviets uncooperative 

MOSCOW [AP] -The Soviet Vance went into the morning administration's proposal for a restriction. This renewed the "I'm not going to characterize it Union failed to respond to Ameri­round prepared to discuss propos­comprehensive new arms accord dispute over inclusion of the Cruise as either optimistic or pessimistic,' can nuclear arms control proposals als he outlined Monday for a new requiring both governments to and the Soviet Backfire bomber he said. But he added that the 
yesterday as talks resumed be­Strategic Arms Limitation Treaty reduce their nuclear weapon stocks which has deadlocked the strategic exchanges of opinion were in tween Secretary of State Cyrus R. (SALT). sharply. arms limitation talks for the past themselves signs of "some prog­V.ance and Soviet Foreign Minister Vance at a meeting Monday However, he added that if the year. ress." Andrei A. Gromyko. afternoon gave Gromyko the Carter Russians will not go that far, the Vance said the Doviets indicated Brezhnev at the opening of the 
U.S. government is ready to nego­they would reply to his arms control talks Monday warned Vance that tiate a less ambitious agreement proposals before the end of his "constructive development of rela­based on the accord Ford and visit. But Tass, the Soviet news tions between the two countries in Brezhnev reached at their meeting agency, said Gromyko in a toast at impossible" as long as the U.S. in Vladivostok. It called for a treaty a luncheon he gave for the secre­government continues to support limiting each nation to 2,400 long­tary of state told the Americans, Soviet dissidents. But Vance told range bombers and missiles, with "It is required . . . not to reject reporters the Russians are not not more than 1,320 of the missiles what we have managed to achieve requiring a change in the American to be equipped with multiple in this matter at the cost .of great position on human rights as a warheads. efforts, but to lean on the founda­condition for progress toward a 
Groinyko reportedly expressed tions already laid. We mean the new nuclear arms treaty.f his support for a pact based on the will-known Vladivostok accords a­Vance said he told the Soviet Vledivostok agreement and repeat­chieved by our two states at the Communist party chief the United ed the Soviet demand that the highest level." States will "continue to do what we American Cruise missile be includ­Vance said the discussion Mon­believe appropriate in the over-all ed in the weapons subject to day was "businesslike." [continued on page 2] 
SMC may revise Frosh Office 
by Maureen Sajbel director. 
Mandell will continue throughSenior Staff Reporter Several aovisors would work with next year assisting Hickey and
J. P. Russell addressed the Hall president's Council last night in the director to counsel students on advising students. She indicated,Stanford. [Photo by jim Hofman] St. Mary's freshmen and soph­matters of scheduling and classes. however, that she will also be 
omores have a ofGassman g1ves last report ac~d.emic~ounsel~rsnextrear. Dr. the additional options for the istration, possibly in one year. She 
• may choice "The desirable feature of this is leaving her position in the admin­
Wtlham H1ckey, v1ce president and students in terms of people they is currently studying for her doc­
• hfJ HPC f• 
·dean of faculty, has announced the can talk to," Hickey stated. torate in English and will seek a
at Iast nlg s mee lng possibility of restructuring tdhe In discussing the undesirable teaching position after receivingand new hall presidents and the entire academic counseling admin-aspects of the restructuring Hickey her degree.by Bob Vuettonl second revises the Rockne Trophy istration following the resignation expressed his concern over the Both Mandell and Hickey stated Senior Staff Reporter award procedure.. of Rosemary Doherty, dean of "fragmentation that may exist" in 
that the restructuring of the system "We want to help all the hall freshmen. the freshman class. "It is psychol­
will depend on who is hired for the.Mike Gassman, with one day left 

presid~nts be better presidents," Doherty, whose resignation goes ogically good to have a place like 
position of academic counselingas student body president, made J. P. Russell HPC chairman com-into effect July 1, will leave the the Freshman Office." He stated director for freshmen. 

his final report to the hall presi­
mented ont he worlr<:hory. position in order to resume a his "concern with losing the focal 
''The credentials will determinedents last night. 

The new hall presidents will teaching position in St. Mary's point" in regard to the office. 
what the job will be," MandellGassman uid that he is working meet in this seminar after Easter. English Department. Doherty "Presently it is clear where they explained. "It's totally up in theon an end-of-year report for stu­Mary McCabe, director of Student taught full time before accepting go. However, restructuring may air right now."

dent government organizations. 
Development; John Reid, assistant the dean of freshmen position and not necessarily lessen tpe focal 
The academic counseling direc­He added there is still a communi­director of Student Activities; and ahs been a part time teacher during point.' 

tor is required to have a masterscation with the administraction 

Charlie Moran, a representative her six years as dean. The restructuring could . allow 
degree and experience in collegeabout the cable T.V. proposal. 

from Student Union, will lead the The structure of the academic "Quite a bit of flexibility,". Hickey lev~l cmmseling or teaching.
The LaFortune survey, Gassman di.,c-.u<;sions court~eling administration may re-stated and said that this is a ''The position is not a trainingadded, has been the directed to all The council also passed a pro-main as it stands now, but Hickey "perfect opportunity to experi­ground. The person must beofficers of the University. He said posal 'to seJ up a plaque in a public· stated the possibility of changing it ment.'' experienced,·' Hickey said.
it has been "received well" and place lising all winners of the to a system of directors and The freshman and sophomore Mandell added that the directorthat the survey would be discussed Rockne Trohpy, for all months and academic counselors. Counseling classes could be combined in this must be '"an ombudsman for theat the April14, trustees meetingsL 
all years. . for the junior and senior classes office because ''their problems are student and have sympathy with"I want to thank everyone who Russell sa1d th.ere was no room would continue to be under the similar,'1 Mandell said. '"It is the professors and academic pur­
helped us," Gassman said. "I'm on the trophy for names of winning direction of Gail Mandell, assistant natural to have a break between the pose of the college.·· 
glad to get out." 
halls? but a. plague would ~ve to the vice president for academic lower classes and upper." she The position is currently beingIn addition the HPC passed two pubhc recogmtion and add prestige affairs. The existing Freshman continued, "the lower classes are advertised in Saint Mary's Reportsproposals at their first night·meet­to the award. Office would be expanded to in­taking core requirements and up­of Mart·h. liic:kl'Y expn.•sst•d a hopeing last night in Stanford hall. The The HPC will begin to award elude sophomores and be organiz­per classes arc concerned with that alumna~· would Sl'l' it andfirst sets up a leadership workshop lcontinued on page 2] ed by an academic counseling problems in their majors.·· apply if tJualilietl. 

the ob_~Etrver Wednesday, Mar~h 30, 1977
2 

On Campus Today Howard wins Rockne award 
12:15 
pm-seminar, "the structure and function of herpes simplex virus genome" by dr. benard roixman, dept. of virology, univ. of chicago, sponsored by dept. of microbiology, rm. 278 galvin aud. 

12:15 
pm-lenten mass celebrated by fr. robert griffen, the university chaplin, Iafortune ballroom. 

12:15 
-nocturne nightflight, wsnd -88.9, jazz at its finest. 


2 pm-

2-4'pm-,free tax assistance program, nd accounting stu­dents, Iafortune. 
3:30pm-seminar, "stimulation of flight wind tunnels: the adaptable wall concept", by dr. w.r. sears, univ. of arizona, sponsored by dept. of aerospace and mech, eng., rm 303 eng.-bldg. 
4 pm-seminar, "electron photoejections and their use in kinnetic investigation" by prof. michael szwarc, dept. of chemistry, college of environmental science & forrestry, state univ. of n.y., syracuse, sponsored by rad..ab., conf. rm., rad. lab. 
4:30 pm -lecture, "inverse problems for differentiable dyna­mic systems" by dr. ronald sverdlove, southern ill. univ., sponsored by math dept., rm. 226, computer center. 
5:15 pm -mass, world hunger coalition, walsh chapel, everyone welcome. 
6:30pm-meet your major, history, 203 o'shag. 
~ 

6:30 pm -meeting, sailing club, sign-ups for beginner lessons, rm. 204 eng. bldg. 
7 pm-film-meeting, film "who's out there?", sponsored by student chapter, amer. inst. of aeronautics, rm. 12, aeronautics eng. lab. on juniper rd. 
7:30pm -concert, ray reussner, .guitar, little theater, general adm. $4. 
7:30pm -prayer meeting, charismatic, Ia fortune 2nd fl., rm. d. 
7:30 & kubnick film festival, "2001: a space odyssey". eng.

10 pm" 
aud. admission$1. 

7:30 pm -meet your major, american studies, 204 o'shag. 
workshop, information workshop, sponsored by
8 pm-

student affairs, h.c., campus ministry. 
8:30 pm _ meet your major, education, rm. 205 o'shag. 
9 pm -oazz, nd first jazz combo & entire big jazz band, free midnight-admission. 
10 pm-mass, "fr. burtchaell' s reflections on lent," farley chapel. 
I penance service, sponsored by campus ministry,
\10 pm 

sacred heart, confessions following. 
fcontinued from page 11 honorable mention certificates each Russell introduced eight new hall Breen-Phillips, . Ted Howard of month to deserving halls. The new presidents last night. They were Holy Cross, Mike Roohan of St. proposal also provides "summaries Mary Anne Wissel of Walsh, Edwards, Paul Falduto of Morris· of all hall activity sheets be Marylou Walsh of Farley, Nand sey, and Andy Sowder of Cavan· centrally located for reference by Kelly of, Lyons, Nancy Budds of augh. 
~:.member of the ND commun-
Vance, Gromyko discuss 
"This will be started as soon as 
t I 
possible, by the beginning of next 

troop· cu s, weapons sa es 
year at the latest," Russell said. 
Russell announced that Howard [continued from page 1] alist movements fighting to topple hall is the winner of the Rockne question of human rights." He white minority governments in Trophy for February. He cited added that he did not believe this Rhodesia and South Africa. Howard for their Capital Punish-would come up againg in his talks. "We agreed in a number of these 
ment Forum and for their Career areas to set up follow-on working
More negotiations are scheduled t ti' h d' · 
Night. Russell added that Pang-groups o con nue t e tscusstons born, Stanford and Keenan halls for today, and Vance said it was we started today," Vance said. 
possible he might extend his stay. v ti ht 1 'fi
also deserve recognition for Feb-ance apparen y soug c art t­
ruary. .Instead of SALT, the Strategic cation Tuesday of an earlier Grom-Arms Limitation Treaty, Vance said k t t t h' h th h
Keefe Montgomery, AnTostal y o s a emen w tc some oug chairman, reported to the HPC that he and Gromyko spent the day indicated that the Soviets might not he is now at work on an AnTostal discussing nuclear test bans, troop insist on participation by the Pales-
cuts in Central Europe, controlling t' L'b ti' 0 · ti' ·
booklet describing all of the week's me 1 era on rgamza on m 
the spread of nuclear weapons and. M'ddl E t talk h'ft
activities. He added that posters t e as peace s, a s t 
would be posted today with infor-the sale of regular weapons, and which would encourage Israel. 
demilitarizing the Ind_ian Ocean. v 'd h ., d th d'
mation about preregistration for ance sat e •oun e tscus-AnTostal events. He said they "touched very sion "useful" and the Soviet 
"We've spent, or plan to spend, briefly" on conflicts in southern position, which he would not $4,600 this year," reported Mont· Africa, where Soviet ·President disclose, "constructive." He said gomery. "This is about $100 over Nikolai ~od~orny this week pledg-he and Gromyko. ~ad agreed not to our allotted amount." ed . con~mumg support of black discuss the pohctes of the other 
Montgomery said there would be nat10nahst support of black nation· side. greater emphasis on crowd control r--~----~--------, 
at AnTostal.this year. He said that SMC Coffeehouse presents: FRIDAY 
at the Chanot races, for example, f f bleachers will be provided so that 9 0()-11 :00 f 
students are not crowded along the f : · sidelines. · f §(~l'~ 13()W~f§ tMI12~ (~WI§ f
f*The Observerlt ~ 1\ctttl,-t:tJIIII.,II,-I 
Night Editor: Paul Schappler t COntempoRaRy ROCk..... ' 
Asst. Night Editor: Jack ' t D'Aurora f 11 0()-2 30 f 
layout Staff: Vickie Blankert : 1 : 
Mary Beth Hudak · ' f l3 (( ...,_ f
111

Editorial layout: Drew Bauer 11-"<lfn U ~flt'()JII I · 
Sports layout: Paul Steven-f f 
~~~its: Mary Corbett, Kathy ' rolk GUitaR.... ' 
Egbert, Anne Giere, Marianne f l I 
Corr also comp 1mentaRy POtat<)€ ChiPS &, ~np..•. 
~!~~~ngController: Martha ' Special: Hoagie bar-make your own!!!! t Day Editor: Kate F;lynn f ~ I 
Copy Reader:-Chris Datzman f .· 
Ad layout: Tom Walraith f Photographer: Jim Hofman I , ~ 
-~ ) '-.. --;_~ 
The Observer is published Monday through Frrday and weekly during the summer session. except-during the exam and vacation periods. The Observer is publrshed by students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $20 per year ($10 per semester) from The Obser­ver. Box Q. Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 
The Observer is a member of the 
Associated Press All reproduction rrghts are reserved
{............................, 
• 

Collegiate :
•
Jazz Festival i _April I·2 i



i ••
AT sTEPAN cENTER Ticket Prices 
• Fri: 7:30 • 
•• Sat: 12 :3o Friday ss.so~ ••
Sat: 7:00 

Sat. (afternoon) S~t.s~ • •.
i Sat EVENING s~a.oo · 
+ +
! All session pass $8.00 i 


FlyMarine. 
We'R£ loolan<; roR a r6W <;ooO m#' Guaranteed flight training for qualified applicants. · See the officer selection team in Lafortune 
+ N D SMC Students· S7.00 + today through Friday• 
.....~~~·-~·········~,.·~······~·~ \ '---'____Jj~\.:......:1''-.!.4.:..i•l...__\-·~--0.... -~----~------=--.L ~:.:_ ____
-_ 

Wednesday, March 30, 1977 the observer 
Due to littering 
Engineering auditorium may be closed 
by Cathy Nolan Senior Staff Reporter 

Dean Joseph Hogan of the College of Engineering has ex­pressed concern over the amount of litter left in the lobby and grounds of the Engineering building fol­lowing Saturday night's showing of "One Flew Over The Cuckoo's Nest." 
If the littering persists, Hogan has warned Student Union and Student Government officials, the College will discontinue rental of the auditorium to Student Union for showing movies. "We are some­what reluctant to make the Engi­neering auditorium available for movies due to the excessive a­mount of trash left in the building after the movies," Hogan stated. 
Associate Professof William Biles, of Aerospace and Mechanical 
any cans auditorium.
Student lobbyists fail, 
Malkus also made an appeal in the Observer to the students to be more responsible when they at­
but judge work not in vain 
tended the movies. Student Union Jake Morrissey tempo of the session. movie workers made announce­Staff Reporter "The ' week before they (the ments at every movie, warning 
legislature) had passed the Equal students that movies would be Rights Amendment ,'' Klingen­discontinued if the litter persisted. berger said. "They went from a ''There is nothing more Student liberal action to a conservative Union can do in this situation," one." Malkus said. "We try to prevent In addition to the students people from bringing cans into the 
already mentioned, Klingenberger movies and we encourage everyone said that John Talbot, Patty to throw their trash in the garbage Sheehan, Mark Klein, Marianne cans provided. But we can't be Moore, Mike Pesce, Maureen police officers or janitors."Griffin, Monty Kersten and Cress Malkus recommended extra gar­
Hizer also deserved recognition for bage cans be placed in the lobby.their hard work and participation Biles disagreed with this proposal, on this project. stating "I don't think the Engi­
"We did a lot of hard work," neering College should have to Klingenberger concluded. "But provide extra facilities for mainte­we had the rug pulled out from nance. If the students can't show under us. We were even asked to more respect for the building, then 
testify at a hearing .. .I really it shouldn't be used for student thought we'd get it this year." activities at all." 

KLM plane began takeoff without permission in crash 
SANTA CRUZ DE TENERIFE, preliminary clearance but not final Canary Islands (AP] -A KLM takeoff clearance. jumbo jet was not cleared for "But the KLM plane started, takeoff when it sped down the which is not in accordance with runway and slammed into a Pan normal procedure," van Rejsen American jetliner in aviation's said in a statement read by a KLM Engineering, noticed the litter in Student Union movie coordinator. the lobby Sunday afternoon when Malkus attributed part of the he came to his office to work. Biles 
problem with the litter to the late then contacted Hogan to inform 
showings of the movie. "The him of the situation. "The lobby 
movies ran longer than expect<!d, was a disgrace," Biles said. "Beer so they did not begin at the bottles, soft drink, cans and food originally scheduled time of 7, 9 wrappers were strewn all over the 
and 11," Malkus commented. lobby." 
"The movies were crowded and Hogan inspected the building people had to wait in the auditor­Sunday evening and then both he 
ium lobby for a longer period than and Biles contacted Mike usual," she continued. "Many Gassman, student body president people brought cans in with them and Mike Casey, vice-president. and did not want to lose their place 
"Dean Hogan did not want to 
in line to go throw them out." immediately shut down the auditor­
Student Union had similar pro­ium for Student Union use," blems last year with litter at the Gassman stated. "If the litter 
movies. At that time Malkus problem is cleared up, he wouldn't conferred with Casey Nolan, for­deny the use of the building. He · mer Student Union services com­just feels somethings needs to be missioner and Brother John done now to control the situation." Benesh, director of Student Activi­After talking with Hogan, ties. The . policy adopted by Gassman contacted Cathu Malkus, Student Union to cope with the problem was to prohibit students from bringing into the 
crash took 575 lives. KLM cockpit regarding the positon 
But a Dutch investigator also of the Pan American plane on the claimed the Pan American plane runway." went beyond the point at which it The press officer said he was was told to pull off the main runway · speaking for van Rejsen and not andwas in the wrong place when it KLM. was rammed by the KLM jet Earlier, Juan Linares, deputy Sunday. A Pan American spokes-director of Santa Cruz airport, told rna denied the claim, say~ng, "we reporters the Dutch' plane "did not were operating with the correct receive clearance from the control procedure.'' ~~wer to take off.'' 
The reports relating to the [continued on page 6) collision of the two Boeing 747's in Lenten Mass 
a thick ground fog were made as 53 of the 71 survivors flew back to the to contin.ue 
United States aboard a U.S. Air 
Force plane. Fr. Robert Griffin, the University 
Franz van Rejsen, head of the Chaplain, will continue to celebrate investigating team from the Dutch a daily lenten mass at 12:15 p.m. Civil Aviation Authority, said taped The mass is held ·Weekdays in conversations between the control the ballroom of LaFortune Student tower and the two planes showed Center and will continue through the KLM pilot had been given Holy Thursday, April 7, 1977. 
~~~==~~~~-­
Biles recommended that the "The situatiOn was even worse "organization responsible for the then, due to people throwing cans use of the Engineering auditorium and trash at the movie screen. 
on a non-academic basis should From a safety standpoint, I feel have a plan which takes into that if the property can't be taken account the student's behavior and care of, then it shouldn't be used," 
the proper use of the facilities.'' Biles stated. 
Hogan suggested that Student Union workers enact stronger po­Both Hogan and Biles remarked licing and clean-up measures. that the movies shown at the "The appeal to the students in the auditorium are an enjoyable social Observer last year and the announ­activity for many students. "We cements made before the movies are aware that the Engineering seemed to help," Hogan noted, auditorium is the only facility on "but in the final analysis the best campus which can be used to show answer is for the students them­movies and we would regret having selves to be more responsible." to take this form of entertainment 
Biles, serving as Engineering away from the students. But ifthey College safety chairman last year, continue to be irresponsible, we initiated complaints last year about have no other alternative," Hogan the trash problem at the movies. said. " 

Carter approves $2 billion in military contracts, sales 
WASHINGTON (AP) -President Carter has approved more than $2 billion work of military support contracts and NATO arms sales, his spokesman said yesterday. 
Carter and Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance picked the sales from a list of $5.032 billion worth of proposals, said White House Deputy Press Secretary Rex Granum. He said Carter, who was critical of his predecessors for making this coun­try the world's No. 1 arms mer­chant, will wait to formulate an overall arms sales policy before deciding on the rest of the list. 
Granum said Carter still has $1.5 billion worth of Vance-approved military sales under consideration, and that Vance still has another $1.432 billion in sales under re­view. "Decisions ... will be made when our policy review is comple­ted next month," the deputy press secretary said. 
"We are sending this much $2 billion up now because it is an enormous program and the Con­gress needs to get started," Granum said. 
Granum told reporters that Carter personally reviewed each proposed sale before approving the ones to be sent to Congress. 
"Over half are sales involving either construction or follow-on logistical support for weapons sys­tem already sold," Granum said. 

''The bulk of the remaining cases are weapons transfers to NATO (North Atlantic Treaty Organiza­tion) countries." 
Granum said the construction and logistical support is "not necessarily" for NATO nations. He refused to specify either the countries or the areas of the world for which the items are intended. He said Carter wants to continue a Gerald Ford agreement with Con­gress to keep details temporarily secret. 
The deputy press secretary and other spokesmen at the White House and the State Department refused comment on a Washington Post report that the approval is for: -Howitzer and tanks for Israel. -$500 million worth of construction contracts for Saudi Arabia. -Jet fighters for Greece. -Unspecified items for Jordan, Pakistan and Saudia Arabia. 
Carter will send Congress a list of the $2 billion in approved sales on Wednesday. Granum said de­tails of the sales will not be made public until 20 days later. He said Congress has an additional 30 days to act if it wants to keep the sales from going through. 
Granum said the purpose of the 20 days of secrecy is to avoid shortening Congress' time to re­view the sales should they be sent to Capitol Hill during a recess. 
worst disaster, Dutch and Spanish press officer. "We presume ther investigators said Tuesday. The was a misunderstanding in the 

CinemaiZZJ 
A Stanley Kubrick Film Festlva · The Ultimate Trip Mar 30 200%: A Space Odyssey
A . Mar3I Clockwork Orange 
7:30 8 IO:oo pm 
Engineering Auditorium Admission SI.OO 
·'*The Observer an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's 
The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters are the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and letters are encouraged to promote the free expression of varying opinions on campus. 
BoxQBusiness Manager Sue Quigley Notre DameAdvertising Manager Steve Bonomo Ind. 46556Production Manager Karen Chiame~ 

EDITORIAL BOARD 
Marti Hogan Editoc-in-Chief Martha Fanning Managing Editor Bob Brink Asst. Managing Ed. Kathy Mills Executive Editor Maureen Flynn Editorial Editor Barb Breitenstein Exec. News Editor Tom Byrne Campus Editor Jean Powley St. Mary's Editor Katie Kerwin News Editor Paul Stevenson Sports Editor Pat Cole Special Projects Ed. Dav1d O'Keefe Features Editor 
Copy Editor Barb Langhenry 
Photo Editor Paul Clevenger 
Wednesday, March 30, 11977 
_/ 

For a Quiet Library 
The Notre Dame Memorial library is well known for its size, numbers of books and the magnificent mural of Christ on the south wall facing the football field. But it is more known by Notre Dame and St. Mary's students as the weeknights' study and social meeting place. Students go there not only to study, but also to socialize with their friends. The second floor lobby is recognized as the "social circus" and 9 p.m._ is the meeting time. 
During these nightly study breaks it 
often seems more students are congrega­ting in the lobby than are actually studying. The problem with this is not the lack of academic endeavors, but the noise _such a large group of people can generate. 
Although the lobbies and "the Pit" in 
the basement are areas of the library in 
which conversation is permitted, the 
intensity of the talking and the architecture 
of these areas causes the noise to carry 
easily into the study areas of the library, 
primarily on the second floor. ' 
In order to deal with this problem, the director of University libraries, David Sparks, along with Dr. George Sereiko assitant director of public services in th~ Memorial library, is working on a program to decrease the noise. They have conducted meetings with the library staff and student leaders and have drawn up guidelines for student behavior in the library, which have been endorsed by Dean of Students James Roemer and which will be available in pamphlet form. 
. Also, Dr. Ambrose Richardson, chair­man of the architecture department, and Dr. Raymond Brach of the college of Engineering, have begun an accoustical survey of noise-amplifying areas in the library and have proposed the installation of carpeting in these areas. Sparks may begin opening seminar rooms in the research tower for evening study. "The Pit" may also be expanded to provide booths and tables where students could sit and talk. 
The study of this problem began early last year, after <:omplaints from students prompted the formation of a committee of students, graduate students and librari­ans, lack of time prevented any action last year. Now however, again the administra­tion has shown interest in alleviating this often irritating problem, andl has come up with some con•~te action and suggestion. 
The proposd improvements are obvious­ly necessary and gladly welcomed, especi­ally since complaints began from the students. Those who chose to study in the library probably have at one time or another experienced the frustration of the noise which filt.E~rs into the study areas from the lobbies. Carpeting would help this. Aso, the expansion of the basement food facility would provide an alternative to the lobbies and another much-needed "social space" on campus, even if only used by students who happen to be studying in the library. 
However, until these improvements can be coropleted, hopefully this summer, the only solution must come through the cooperation of the students. The purpose of the library is to provide adequate space and materials to aid students in research and study, not as a social facility. The social aspects of students' use of the library is bad only when it interferes with the llibrary's real function. 
Student coopE~ration is the primary appeal of the library administration's program. The library staff and the administration are working on the building and on accomodating the students' needs. It is now the responsibility of the students to show some self-discipline and keep the noise at a moderate level. 
Students need not stop socializing in the library, but some consideration must be shown for others who are studying. 

NO-still a sick community 
Dear Editor: 
Five months have passed since 

S. Salimando wrote his thoughtful, honest, and well written letter to the Observer which was just now published under the title "ND -A Sick Community." The day after it appeared. the editor printed an apology for its late appearance on her page since " Mr. Salimando feels that many of his comments are no longer appropriate." 
But consider what he wrote: On . the weekends, the unbalanced male-female ratio makes itself vis­ible in the high number of men who turn to drink for lack of female company or anything else to do on the campus. Has this situation 

--~•-------~~~---­
P.O. Box Q 
disappeared m five months? 
Nothing here has changed. What 
of the women who become either 
introverts or extroverts due to the 
unnatural competition and oppor­
tunistic conditions? Has anything 
changed in five months? No. 
Has itbecome any less important in five months that people shouldn't be required to live in the shadows of past great people like · Rockne or the Gipper? If anything, the trend is the other way -it is more important. Has action be­come less imperative? Does the administration need to listen less to the students now than before? No. 
Are the students no longer old 
enough to know what they need 
and want; no longer old enough to 
participate in the running of their 
university? No. 
Has the need to build a decent 
student union or the" need to create 
dorms for both men and women 
suddenly disappeared? No. 
Is it that Notre Dame will become a "comfortable institution to live in" without the effort of concerned students? The record of the administration shows this to be clearly not the case. 
What has the administration done to relieve the problems which Salimando so aptly enumerated five months ago? The only thought which comes to mind is that it plans to sink more money (already about $200,000 in the last two years) into the roach-infested hellhole of· a student center called LaFortune. But even this solitary and puny effort is against what Salimando listed amongst the students' needs. 
Or have the .roaches disappeared and the squalor been transformed into welcoming beauty? A look and a sniff will confirm that the "good old pit'f' has only gotten a little worse in five months. 
Then why does Salirnando feel that many of his comments are no 
opinion~~~~~~~~~ 
Faculty Unionization at Notre Dame? iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiieedward j inu rp h y 
The campus AAUP chapter 
would like to be the exclusive 
bargaining representative or union 
of more than seven hundred Notre 
Dame faculty members "for the 
purpose of carrying on collective 
negotiations to represent (their) 
professional and economic inter­
ests." (AAUP Designation Card) 
To this end it intends to petition the 
National Labor Relations Board for 
an election that it hopes will result 
in its being certified by the Board 
as such an exclusive agent. 

The implications and ramifica­
tions of such a development would 
be enormous. It would have a 
profound impact upon the Faculty, 
the students and the University as 
a whole. For this reason it is 
imperative that all sides of the 
issue be aired and that no decisive 
action be taken until all probable 
consequences are known and eval­
uated by everyone concerned. 

What would be the probable 
impact of unionization of the Notre 
Dame Faculty? A difficult ques­
tion. For one thing, comparatively 
few four-year colleges or universi­
ties in this country have opted for 
unionization. For example, none of 
the Big Ten or Ivy League college 
faculties has done so. (See Means 
and Semas, Faculty CoUective Bar­
gaining, pp. 84-92, 2nd ed., 1976.) 
Unionization of college faculties is 
largely a phenomenon of the 
1970's. (See, generally, Klemerer 
and Baldridge, Unions on Campus, 
1975.) There is not, therefore, a 
great deal of data available. 
Moreover, is it nm foreseeable that 
in terms of both power and tactics 
the mature animal of the future will 
differ markedly from the baby of 
today? Klemerer and Baldridge 
have noted a "creeping expansion 
of collective bargaining contracts." 
(Id. at 97) They discern an ever 
increasing number of "issues" 
which are deemed to pertain. to an 
individual's "professional and eco­
nomic interests." What are the 
limits? No one knows. 

What, then, can be known? I 
submit the following. 

First, there would emerge on campus a powerful, new bureau­cratic structure, composed of union officials and staff. The members thereof need not be, and probably would not be in many cases, members of the Faculty. This power bloc would be positioned between the individual faculty member and the University admin­istration. The individual would have no right to bargain for himself or to even process a grievance or request directly. What would this mean in actual practice? What are the gains and losses? What private initiatives that are now count­enanced would be prohibited by the collectivized pattern? 
Second, there would be an even more marked distinction between 
•he "teacher" and the "admin­istrator." For instance, it seems 
· certain that at Notre Dame deans and department chai~en would not be in the bargaining unit. They· would be "management" person­nel; i.e., a part of "them" as opposed to "us." Could we, therefore, rightly claim a right to share in their selection? And what of other areas where there is Faculty participation of some type in what might technically be re­garded as "management" peroga­tives? 
Third, there would surely be a resurgence of "legalistic" form and procedure. I have already alluded to the current tendency to expand collective bargaining agreements, encompassing more and more "issues" which are spelled out in elaborate legal prose after lengthy negotiations. It is interesting that the campus AAUP in its booklet, ''The Case for Collective Bargaining at the Uni­versity of Notre Dame,'' evokes the medieval university as exemplify­ing the principles for which it contends. But as Jacques Barzun 
. of Columbia maintained in a lecture on this campus a few years back, it was precisely when they became enmeshed in excessive legalistic red-tape that the great medieval universities began to decline. Am I being too fanciful in imagining a bargaining committee meeting con­tinuously from one ratification date to another, with accompanying features such as daily reports to the union constituency, numerous task forces running about doing all sorts of things, and endless talk, talk, talk? I would like to have one dyed-in-the-wool academic look me in the eye and say my fears are unfounded. 
Fourth, by choosing the union model one effectively abandons any attempt to reach more ideal forms of university governance, including the "collegial" model which views decision making as a process of deliberation by academic pro­fessionals. To be sure, I have never heard anyone insist that the prt·sent Notre Dame model is perfect. But whose is? And before making what would for all practical purpose be an irreversible de­cision, ought we not strive to improve upon what we have? 
There are, of course, many other reasons why one might oppose the present AAUP action. This is merely the statement of one faculty member who has not signed the "designation" card and does not intend to do so. Hopefully, there are those who have signed that might wish to reconsider and ask that their cards be returned. 
[Edward J. Murphy is Thomas J. White Professor of Law and was the first chaianan of the Faculty Sen11te.] 

longer appropriate? Nothing has changed. Except, perhaps, Sali-make it illegal to carry an open mando. Is he no longer one of "the bottle or· cup outside in public. If active students who will stand up Mr. Kanser and the other tavern for what they feel must be done" or owners really wanted to show some does he feel that what must be · civic responsibility over the litter done is that the students remain problem, they would merely have 
silent and docile, or has he seen to establish a new policy at each of something which I cannot see? the bars. No customer would be I wonder. allowed to leave the bat with a bottle or cup in his possession. This Robert Jacques is the way that bars in other areas of the country rt;solve the litter problem and the .legal hassles which ensue for open liquor inLitter public places. · Establishment of a policy such as this wo~ld most probably relieve


solution 
the extreme pressure that the police and politicians of South Bend Dear Editor: 
1 are putting on the bars and their patrons. It would also help relieveln response to yesterday's Jetter the tension which exists between"Litter Problem," I have an addi­the students ami the neighborhoodtional sugg.estion which could re­immediately surrounding· the stu­solve the problem. 

dent bar tl ;srril't.

Rick Kanscr ha[) been quoted as beint~ in favor of South Bend Charlie Moran p,i<;SiHg an ordinance which would 
~-~--~~~--~-------­
Wednesday,_ March 30, 1977 the observer 



Talks with Cuba end with Angola intervention 
WASHINGTON [AP) • Until Rogers, a pnncipal American par­
Cuba moved troops into Angola, , ticipan, said, the United States and ·Castro Except for one brief session, the government representatives met talks ended with Cuba's military for about a year in secret on intervention in September 1975, in establishing normal relations. the Angolan Civil War. 
At the high-level meetings, at However, knowledgeable sour­airports and in a New Yorkhotel, ces here said Cuba's military "we catalogued the range of issues ces here said Cuba's support for a outStanding between the United Marxist faction was only one_ of States and Cub!l.'' William D._ ~everal )possible reasons for the dialogue coming to an end. 
Others, the source said, included apparent differences within the government in Havanna on how far to go toward resuming relations with Washington. Also, there was the growing prospect that a De­mocratic administration would come to power here and be more favorably disposed toward a re­newal of ties. 
Rogers, then assistant secretary of state for Latin American affairs, said in an interview that "What we were doing was explaining, as Secretary of State Henry A. Kis­singer had said publicly, that · hostility was not a permanent part _of our_ policy."_ 
The talks, described by Rogers as "exploratory", were treated as confidential. They became known publicly after the Carter adminis­tration authorized the current 
underway in New York on fishing rights and maritime bound­
Library receives large endowment now 
aries. Those talks were announced 
The University of Notre Dame has received the largest endowment for its Memorial Library collection, University officials announced today. 
Mr. and Mrs. Howard V. Phalin of Wilmette, lll. have created a library endowment devoted exclu­sively to the purchase of books in the area of English literature. Phalin, a 1928 graduate and a trustee of the University, conveyed a benefaction to the University in 1966. He asked Notre Dame officials to invest the donation until the time he would make a deCision for its use, after reviewing institu­tional priorities. While its size was not announced, University officials said Phalin's gift was the largest of its kind ever to Notre Dame. 
''The Univesity is particularly grateful for Mr. and Mrs. Phalin's action," commented Notre Dame's president, Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., "because the permanent endowment of depart­mental purchase funds is one of the most effective ways we can counter the effect on our library's collection of rampant inflation in the cost of books. We hope to attract other generous gifts to the library for this purpose.'' 
For 35 years Phalin was associa­ted with Field Enterprises Educa­tional Corporation and its prede­cessors, publishers of The World Book Encyclopedia and other edu_­cational materials.. He became executive vice president and direc­tor in 1957, president in 1964, chairman of the board and chief executive officer in 1966 and re­tired in 1968. For 12 years he was co-owner of the McKwoen-Phalin Chevrolet, Inc. 
Phalin-was appointed to the University's Advisory Council for 
, the College of Arts and Letters in 1962 and to the Library Council in 1976. He became a member of the Lay Board of Trustees in 1964, and when the changeover to lay gover­nance took place in 1967, he assumed membership on the recon­stituted board, on which he now , has emeritus status. He donated the 11-story mosiac mural, "Christ the Teacher," which adorns the facade of Notre Dame's Memorial 
Sophomore parents visit St. Mary's this_ weekend 
by MarineU Rauen 

An event-filled weekend awaits Saint Mary's sophomores and their parents, as this year's Soph­omore Parents' Weekend gets un­derway Friday, Apr. 1. 
The annual festivities are under the direction of co-chairwomen Rosemary Hammer and Mary Joan Ptacin. According to Hammer, "this is an opportune time for those who live far away to get acquainted with the campus." 
Registration for parents is Friday afternoon from 2 to 6 p.m. in the Holy Cross Hall lobby. There will be a cocktail party and dance that evening in the concourse of the ACC from 9 p.m. to 1 a.m. 
Entertainment will be provided by Jim Judge and his Jury. "The group will not cater to the parents, because the idea of the weekend is to expose the parents to our kind of life," Hammer reported. 
A brunch sponsored by McCand­less Hall will begin activities Saturday morning for the sopho­mores and their parents. 
Following the brunch, St. Mary's President, John Duggan, will wel­come the parents in Carroll Hall. Afterward, there will be an acade­mic open house from 1:30 to 2:30 p.m. 
A softball game is tentatively planned for sophomores and their parents Saturday afternoon. The game will follow the open house activities. 
The itinerary for Saturday even­ing consists of a wine and cheese party at 4:30p.m. in Regina North, followed by a banquet in the St. Mary's Dining Hall at 6:30p.m. 
There are numerous other activi­ties planned for the weekend. An opera at O'Laughlin Auditorium at 8 p.m. is scheduled for Saturday night. Also on Saturday night, there will be a Sophomore Variety Show organized specifically for the parents. 
A mass on Sunday morning at 
sophomores and parents. Follow­ing the mass will be a brunch in the dining Hall to conclude the week­end events. 
The activities have been in the planning stages for a long time. The co-chairwomen have commit­tees for each of the events in order that the responsibility be delegat­ed. The main concern is that everyone is informed as to the itinerary of the weekend. "Our job is to make sure things run smooth­ly," Hammer concluded. 

Engineers win competition 
Three Notre Dame students from the Aerospace and Mechanical Engineering Department presen­ted prize winning papers at the American Institute of Aeronautica and Astronautics Student paper competition, on March 25 and 26 at Ohio State Universitv. ­
Schools competing in the mid­west regional included the Big Ten Schools, Illinois fnstitute of Tech­nology, Case Western Reserve, Tri-State, Indiana Tech, and Notre Dame. 
The students winning the awards ~ere Charles Fiscirra, John Tartag­lione. and Margaret Curtin. Fiscina vvon the f1rst place award in the graduate division for his naoer, 
"An Investigation into the Effects of Shear o,, the Flow Past Bluff Bldies." Tartaglione also won a first place award in the undergrad­uate division for his paper entitled, "an Analysis of the Aircraft Trail­ing Vortex System." Margaret Curtin won the third place award for her paper entitled, "Wind Gradient Effects on Aerodynimic Coefficients." _ .The. student's papers were judged on technical content as well as their oral presentation. The winning papers from each regional conference will be presented at the American Institute of Aeronautics ~nd Astr~mautics n·ational meeting m Washmgton, D.C. ir. J~tnuarj
1978. . 
Library, and the Howard V. Phalin foundation for Graduate Study, established in his name by his company upon his returement, has supported advanced students at Notre Dame and three Chicago area universities. 
Mr. Phalin has honorary doctor­ates in Law at Notre Dame and 
-Illinois Benedictine College as well as an honorary doctorate in letters at DePaul University, where he is also a trustee. 
last week by the State Department. 
Sources said that as aresult of the meetings and other contacts by a handful of U.S. senators, some dozen Americans held in Cuba on drug-related charges were released and the United States moved to support lifting of economic and diplomatic sanctions by the Organ­ization of American States against Cuba. 
T.,-+~ n.... also covered expanded travel for Cuban diplomats in the 
.---------~~-----­

2-YEAR NRoTc '§(BfJJUJ11UJ1B§fJJU£i1 
UJ~~UJlBUl!JUJUU~~ 
United States and the eventual removal of barriers to trade by foreign-based subsidiaries of A­merican business firms. 
When the current fishing talks were announced by the State Department last Friday, they were generally believed to be the first known meetings between the two nations since the United States suspended relations in January 
1961. ' The earlier round was begun in November 1974 with a telephone call by Lawrence Eagleburger, a close aide to Kissinger, to the Cuban mission at the United Na­tions explaining the Ford adminis­tration's interest in meeting with Cuban diplomats. The two countries have imposed 200-rnile fishing zones causing an overlap of 200,000 square miles that must be resolved. Besides fishing rights, U.S. and Cuban representatives are expected to discuss at an early date extension of an anti-hijacking agreement that has dissuaded terrorists from di­verting planes to Cuba. 



Immediate Benefits For Those Who Qualify 
•FULL 
TUITION FOR JUNIOR & SENIOR YEAIC: 

•ALL 
BOOKS 


•ALL 
EDUCATION, LAB FEES 

•$1 
00 MONTHLY SUBSIST ANCE 


A lot of companies will offer you an important sounding title. 
But how many offer yo11 a really important job? 
In the Navy, you get one as soon as you earn your com· mission. A job with responsibility. A job that requires skill and leadership. A job that's more than just a job, because it's also an adventure. 
IF THATS THE KIND OF JOB YOU'RE LOOKING FOR, CAU 
Lt. Commander Nelson 283.6442 
Church will be said in honor of the
8:~Lm.d~L~~~re~~~::::::::::::::::=;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;: 
~IJ-S,..( ~t?J11()1 (lcl§§ ()I~§~J1t§l 
1~11 St?lll()r (ICI§§ f()rrnC~I FrlciC~-,~ A()rll 1()~ 1~11 

Attt?lltl()ll St?lll()l§l f()llllcll lt?"l§tlcltl()ll§ llcll't? "()llf? ()l'f?l llc1lf ()f £cl()cl£1t' , Ul't?l 1()() 
£()U()It?§ licll'f? §l"llro U()) 
SI()~-IJ[) f()[)A~ lC~f()rtullt? 13C~IIr()()rn 1-4()rn -=()rrnctl lllf()rrneltl()ll 11l~lit lf)lll~lit lr1 senior bar-· 
·~__.._ _.._~---t-h-~-...:·b-s_e_r._v_e_r____W_e_dn_e_s-da~y-,~M-a..r-ch-3-0,-1_9_7_7________ ~-~-------­




Values Seminar might be made mandatory 
by Ann Gales Staff Reporter 
According to University Provost 
James T. Burtchaell, the Academic 
Council has voted to make Values 
Seminar a required course for all 
Notre Dame seniors in all colleges 
as of the '78-'79 school year. 
However, Burtchaell revealed that 
the council might be asked to 
reconsider this decision. 
"I'm in the process of consulting various persons on the matter," said Burtchaell. "Right now I'm just not sure as to whether or not the course should be mandatory. Of course, the final decision has to be made by the Academic Council." 
Values Seminar 491 is a one-hour 
discussion course presently offered 
in five sections: two in the College 
of Arts and Letters, and one each in 
the Colleges of Science, Engineer­
ing and Business Administration. 
A great deal of controversy about the course has arisen since the council made its decision. Although the value of the course does not seem to be in question, many of the deans of the four colleges expres­sed skepticism about making it mandatory for all seniors. 

"I don't think there's any doubt in anyone's mind about the impor­tance of values," commented Rob­ert J. Wad dick, assistant dean of the College of Arts and Letters. "It's not a question about whether or not we need values. But there is some conflict as to what would be the best approach to teaching a course on values." 
Waddick said that he thought the course should eventually become mandatory, but only after the college has had time to build up a good program. "By the time he graduates, every Notre Dame stu­dent should have spent at least one semester in personal reflection,'' he concluded. 
Dean Joseph Hogan of the College of Engineering agreed that a course in values could be both 
KLM spokesman denies guilt 

[continued from page 3] them from Santa Cruz to Las Palmas on nearby Grand Canary island. 
Air Force spokesmen said five of the survivors remained behind on Las Palmas, while the other 53 boarded an Air Force C141 jet for a flight to McGuire Air Force Base, N.J. 
A Pentagon spokesman said the . plane was due at McGuire about 1 
a.m. ot 2 a.m.EST today. He said the most seriously injured will be flown to the U.S. Army burn center in San Antonio, Tex. 
In Amsterdam, a KLM spokes-. man said it would have been "completely unthinkable" for the pilot to have started his takeoff without proper clearance. The spokesman said KLM would with­hold further comment until it had examined dthe recorder that tapes cockpit conversations as well as radio communications. He said the recorder had been impounded by Spanish authorities. 
Van Rejsen said the Pan Ameri-. can pilot had been ordered to taxi down the main runway behind the Dutch plane. "It is clear that the Pan Am pilot heard the Du.tch pilot say 'I am taking off,"' the investi­gator said. 
In Madrid, the newspaper Pueb­lo reported the Pan American pilot saw the Dutch plane approaching and screamed over his flight recor­der, "This man is crazy ... What is he doing ... He is going to kill us all!" There was no confirmation from official spokesmen. 
Van Rejsen said ground fog had reduced visibility to less than 330 yards by the time of the collision. He said the Pan American plane swerved onto the grass verge and the KLM plane struck it at a 45-degrec angle. 
Van Rejscn also said investiga­tors needed to gather more infor­mation .before blame could be csl:thlisht.•d. 

important and worthwhile, but concerned about that type of the College of Science, remarked, ants, said that he found the course stated, "It's probably most valu-thing." "Although the course doesn't to be personally valuable, but able the way it is right now with Raymond noted that the reac-count for a science credit I find it thought that some thyp of guide­both the students and teachers as tions to the course offered by the extremely valuable and think it lines must be set up if the course volunteers." Hogan expressed College of Business Administration could be made mandatory." He became mandatory. "They must concern about what will happen have so far been excellent. "I'm added, "Many teachers, especially find the right type of professors to "when students who don't want to very much in favor of the Values in Arts and Letters, find that values teach the class, for depending ofn take the course are required to take Seminar becoming a requirement wme up in the course of a lecture the professor it could be worth­it, and professors who are perhaps for all seniors," he added. of discussion, but in the case of a while or worthless," explained not interested in teaching the Rev. Donald McNeil who teaches science course I do not think they Laas. course are forced to teach it." tht~ Values Seminar offered by the come up very often unless I bring "The professor must not lecture, 
According to Bernard W aidman, College of Business Administra-them up myself. For this reason I but rather direct the students in dean of the College of Science, the tion, explained that last semester favor the course." discussion. One can't teach so Values Seminar is being offered in tht~ course he taught was an John Laas, a student in the much about values as how to cope his college for the first time this experiment. The 13 members ofthe Values Seminar taught by Pleas-with differing ones," he concluded. 
year. "We have one section this class were asked to evaluate every-·l········t._---~ ~--~
... 

semester that has a very small ·thilng they did in regard to appro-' ' enrollment because the course is priateness. The last meeting of the SHAKESPEARE'S & • f entirely voluntary,'' he explained. class was held with the Dean of the • ALIVE & W ELL & • ' Frtday & Saturday 
Waldman said he was uncertain College of Business Administration LIVING IN • f 9-12 p.m. f about what the consequences so that the students could share • AM ERICA t would be if the 'seminar was with him their views of the course. • •••_...... $1.00 off lag. pizza required, but commented, "I per-"The conclusion was that maybe . & $.50 off sm. pizza f sonally think the whole thing has to earlier in the sophomore or junior ' (not for takeouts) be further evaluated before a year the course would have value, • t t t decision can be reached as to the but a one-credit-hour course the 

tODite. 

value of the course." senior year would not," said f LOUIE'S f 
Associate Dean Vincent R. Ray-McNeil. "I would not recommend RAY REUSSNER mond of the College of Business that the course be made manda-f f Administrationexpressedcomplete tory," he continued. "Not for Classical guitarist f Wed. & Thurs. f enthusiasm about the Values Sem-seniors and not until there's a little theatre SMC 
inar. "It's a wonderful course," he chance for the professors to do stated. "We think it's also very more experimentation to find out ' zse BEER ' 
unique. Other schools don't offer how the course can best be Call 284-4176 courses like it," he added., "and I taught." f f think our students are very adapt-Prof. Julian Pleasants, who 10 p.m. to midnite able to the course because they're teaches a Values Seminar section in f f 
,--·--------------;;;;;;::-;;;;-----;~----.;;;;-;;~--;;;;;-";_"_'~!:_.._..:_,..~~--..-w,.,.___,..,. -------­
could have created 948,000 new jobs.
Why too much Plain Talk About

No sensible American wants to
regulation mQl' 

dismantle all Government regulation. 
REGULATION 
But we think the system has gone 
Besides our Y79 permits, Armco at last berserk and the cost is out of control. 
rule you out 

count had to file periodic reports with get permission from 379 separate How would you like to be forced to 
1.245 federal, stc..te and local agencies. Government agencies before you could 
What happens to Armco and other
Free-Armco's plain 
companies isn't that important. Butwork'! That's what Armco has to do. 



talk on how to get 
what happens to a company's jobs is. from nearly any large company in We think you could hear a similar story 
Here's a small example: America-if the regulatory paperwork 
a job· 
The Government requires companies 
We've got a free booklet to help you 
to give employees reports on theirleaves them any time to talk to you. 
get a job. Use it to set yourself apart, 
benefit plans. Fair enough. But the Excessive regulation threatens your 
above the crowd. We answer SO key 
timing this year. plus the complexities chance of getting a job. 
questions you'll need to know. Like 
of Armco's plans, didn't let us print aMost of us agree that the goals 
why you should bone up on companies 
report in our company magazine. In­regulation seeks are important. Clean 
you like. What to do after the first 
stead. we had to mail them-200.000
air and water. Job safety. Equal rights 

interview. Hints to make you a more 
in all-to each employee individually. 
at work. The problem is th'e way 

aggressive, attractive job candidate. 
This didn't add one dime to ArmcoGovernment people now write and 
All prepared for Armco by a consult­
people's benefits. But it's cost usapply specific rules to reach those 
ing firm specializing in business 
$125,000 so far. That's two jobs wegoals. Too often, the rules don't really 
recruiting, with help from the place­
couldn't create, right there. 
do any good. They just tie companies 

ment staff of a leading university. 
up in knots as they try to comply. 

Next time anybody calls for a new 
Send for your free copy of How
Federal regulations now take up a regulation, you might ask for some

to Get a Job. Write Armco Steel 
twelve-foot shelf of textbook size sensible analysis of the costs and 

Corporation, Educational Relations 
volumes printed in small type. 13.589 

benefits-including how many johs 
Dept., General Offices, U-3, Middle­
more pages were written last year might be lost. One of those jobs could 

town, Ohio 45043. Our supply is
alone. And Washington is more than be yours. 

limited. so write now.
matched by a growing army of state and local regulators. 

Nobody really knows how much money regulation costs. Some say it's up to S40 billion a year. ComJ: :tnies paying that bill can't use that money for jobs. A new job, on the average, now costs a company S42.168 in capital investment. IArmco's own c:ost is 
Armco wants Y2YJ plain talk 
SS5.600.) At S42.168 per job, regulation 

on regulation and jobs
last year ate up the money which Does our message make sense'! We'd like to know what you lhink. Your personal experiences. Facts you've 


-----------------------------~-----------­
.. 
Russell, director of Notre Dame',


Parents should. 
Medieval Institute and. author ofwrite leHers-"Witchcraft in the Middle Ages"; Volodymyr Walter Odajnyk, Jung­
senfors dissatisfied with the five ian analyst of New York and author ticket limit on graduation tickets of "Marxism and Existentialism."
should ask their parents to write Other highlights of the confer­letters to Fr. Burtchaell, according ence will include Michael
to Marty White, head of the McCormick of the University ofpetition committee. Signatures will New Mexico and his Matchboxbe gathered at lunch and dinner Circus, as well as several experien­today to move the gradution exer­
tial and experimental workshops,cises to the stadium. 
· films by Laurens van der Post and John Evans, and videotapes of


Psychology 

other Jungian conference talks, including those of Rev. John


conference 

Dunne, C.S.C., and Thomas National and internationally Kapacinskas, both of Notre Dame. 
noted authorities will attend a conference here beginning Thurs­day on Jungian and Archetypal Psychology, an annual event spon-r Law school sored by the College of Arts and Letters and the Center for Continu­inter¥iews held ing Education. Sessions will 
Judge David F. Condon, pro­continue through Sunday, Apri!J. 
fessor of law at the InternationalGuest speakers will include School of Law, will be conductingJames Hillman of Zurich, one of interviews on Friday, Apri11, from
the world's foremost spokesmen 1:30 to 4:30 p.m.
for archetypal psychology; Fafael The International School of LawLopez-Pedraza of Caracas, author has recently relocated in washing­6f the forthcoming "Hermes and 
ton D.C. It has both day andHis Children"; Patricia Berry of evening programs, with enteringZurich, Jungian analyst, author classes of 137 and 81, respectively. 
and former faculty member at Though it is presently unac­Syracuse and Yale Universities, credited, provisional accreditationand Edward Edinger of New York, is expected SOOf1.
chairman of the New York Institute of the C.G. Jung Foundation. Students interested in the study Also speaking at the Notre Dame of law in Washington D.C. are conference will be Katherine de urged ·to attend' this meeting. 
:, Jersey of Chicago, nationally Sign-ups are on the bulletin board known astrologer and author of outside room 101 O'Shaughnessy. "Destiny Times Six"; Dr. Jeffrey All students are welcome.. 
-,
1

Campus Briefs 1o~n1e1oll!!fl.th""e..2~8~0·u·n~iv1er1s~itl~.e·s~in15~3~·s1tud1e1n1ts.m1a1Jo1n1n1g.in·M-at·h·e­
countries with AIESEC chapters, matics, Business and Accounting 
--------Notre Dame members seek to are eligible for nationwide place­a'dvance the internattcnal -~dw.:<J-ment by the Burrough's Corp. tion of business and economic (Wednesday, March 30) and GTE
Jazz Concert students by placing them in foreign Data Services Co. (Tuesday, April jobs and by facilitating the transi-5). 
The Notre Dame Jazz groups tion for foreign students working in ..we encourage the students to that will be playing in the Colle­· this country. The goal is to sign up for the interviews," stated giate Jazz l estival this weekend complement theoretical training Career Development Center Secre­will present an informal concert in ·ith practical management exper-tary, Ruth Witherspoon, "manythe NAZZ on Wednesday, March tence and to develop internationally good opportunities are available to 30th at 9:00 p.m. educated managers. them., 
The ND Big Band will play first Tickets for the Notre Dame 
at 9:00 p.m.. and they will be dinner, priced at $15, may be Interested students, both seniors followed by the ND Jazz Combo--· reserved by phoning the dinner and underclassmen, may obtain Neil Giltespie, Bill Boris; Steve chairman, Kent Klopfenstein, further information from the SMC 283-1527. Career Development Center in
Calonje and Cedric Williams. 
LeMans Hall or by calling 4431.
· This would be a good way to Interview schedules have been
kick-off a great weekend of jazz at Notre Dame's CJF. There is no SMC to host posted. admission charge for the NAZZ 
Concert. job recruiters 
Saint Mary's Career Development ·French lecture 
Center (CDC) will host a number of AIESEC Banqu~t job recruiters in the next two to be presentedweeks. Interviews will be con­
An illustrated lecture in theChicago insurance executive W. ducted at the CDC for various French language, "Political, Lin­Clement Stone will be the principal positions open to a variety of guistic and Cultural Aspects ofspeaker at the annual banquet of majors. 

Strasbourg, A Frontier City inAIESEC Snternationalt\ssociation of Several of the companies repre­

Europe," will be presented at 4Economic and Business Students at sented will offer nationwide place­p.m. Thursday in the facultythe University of Notre Dame. The ment in jobs available to students lounge of the University of Notredinner, tonight in the Monogram in all majors. These include: the Dame's Memorial Librarv.

Room of the Athletic and Convoca­Traveler's Insurance Co. (Thurs­tion Center, is open to the public. day, March 24) and the Institute for The speaker, Professor Maurice 
Stone, chairman of the board of Paralegal Training (Tuesday, Golle, is director of the Interna­Combined Insurance companies of March 29). Representatives from tional Institute of French Studies at American and publisher of Success the Mony Corp. (Mutual of New the University of Strasbourg. The Unlimited, an inspirational theme York) will conduct interviews on program is sponsored by the magazine, will discuss applications thursday, March 31, offering posi­Department of Modern and Oassi­of his Positive Mental Attitude tions open to all majors. Most of cal Languages at Notre Dame and philosophy in the international these jobs will be based in the is open to the public without education of students. South Send/Fort Wayne vicinity. charge. 


I~------------------------------------------,
~~~A~ l 
I I 
I 
NOTICES Two bedroom house to rent. Summer and or school year. 1012 Ride needed from North Niles to Mel
·1 c 11 k Dear "And my name isn't
Accurate, fast. Typing Mrs. Donoho Eddy St. $120 mo. plus utilities. N·D· 8 to 5 d • 1Y· a Mlc at 7666 either", 
I

232-0746. Hours · 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. Call Oddies Harris at 232-8563. or 4-5806. 50 what?..• love yat 129 Alumni, -----------------------------------------I want to see you. We have only 6 
I 
"EUROPE WORLDWIDE academic 5-bedroom house, real nice, large Need ride to NEW ORLEANS for --------------~c more weeks. discounts year round S.A. T.A. 4228 living room and kitchen, fully fum-Easter Break. Call Kevin 8892. Charlie: Ia bi'vla 
First, Tucker, GA 30084 (800) ished, close to campus, has burglar ----------Happy 21st. You're the oldest whale --------------­241-9082 alarm, call Charlie Moore 272-7180 WANTED: Married student couple we know. Happy 21st Birthday, Kevin! We'll 
____:..___________ ---------------(one dlild okay) to live in, and be teach you how to study, If you teach 
1

1 
Easter Buses to Chicago will be Summer Rental and or Next Aca-companions to 3 teen-age boys. 7B us how to party! leaving the Main Circle at 5:45 on demic Year. Great house. 8 rooms Room and board in exchange. 0~~-::------------Your Farley Friends 1I I
I 
both Wed. Apr. 6 and Thurs. Apr. 7. tully furnished. 4 bedrooms, 2 Would be required to cook family · ---~----------­Tom 8338 for seat reservations, baths. Washer, dryer. Largelawn. dinner, do tight housework and do 1had a great time at the formal and 1 Schneids: 
---------------Near Jeff.-Eddy. 234-1972. minor repairs. Exchange refer-may be tired, "but I'm not quite Who won the room loHery for this MANAGEMENT WORK STUDY ---------------ences. Call 288-1411 or 291-1814. dead yet!" weekend? 
PROGRAM THIS SUMMER at Furnished ten-room house, avail· Ask for Joan. Love, an avid Chuck Berry fan P.H. Quantico, Virginia, Free Transpor-able last of May. Suitable for 5 or 6 -----------------------------------------­tation, Free room and board, Free students. One block East of Male and female models needed. Vote Chris Vaughn for ugliest To Carl P. Casazza, Matt Feeney, 
I 1 
I 1I
I 
books and Uniforms, and $115.00 Memorial Hosp. Call 232-4412 for Call the Art Dept. at 7602. Amoeba on campus: Larry Foreman, Tom Gaughan, Fr. per week. See the selection team in more information. -----------He's so nondescript, sort of like a Gene, Joe ·lneich, Tom MaHingly, LaFortune Student Center, Mar. 29----------------Ride to U. of !-Champaign this jellyfish. More info call '6824 Nell Mongold, Joe Murphy, Steve Apr 1 9am to4pm For Sale: Vivitar 135mm 1:2.8 Friday. Call8081. between 2 and 6 am. Paspek, Steve Podry, SteveI _.....:__·_~:.._:_ __~_:_____ Autotelephoto lens, with case. sel------------R,;s;.;-:-~;B.;cko;;;l.<a'deH Rodgers, John Schrank, Dave 1 
Greyhound bus to Chicago leaves dom used. Call Chris 8208. Good condition. Dependable. Best Sickley:
Main Circle every friday at 5.45. ------------ff Call Tom at 8338 for seat reserva-For Sale: '74 Ford Elite, dark blue FOR SALE ~~:_2~~~~~~~~~:..___ It's been a great year. How can 1 tions. with white vinyl roof, AM-FMster-D G d. ever repay you? Thanks for every-
I 1 
0

I ---------------. t · db k MOTHER'S DAY AFGHANS Gifts ear IVa, th· 1 
eo, a1r, powers eermg an ra es, Congratulations on Nursing, You're mg.
Tickets for the Apr. 17 led zeppelin rear defroster, 35 V-8. $3,250 or cherished forever. Many colors a Florence Nightengale. All 1 need Gary
I 1
concert at Market Square Arena in best offer. Call 272-9895. available 259-1304. is TLC. --------------­Indianapolis and the Apr. 14 RUSH -------------------------Third Floor Keenan: 
STARCASTLE concert at Ft. Wayne LOST AND FOUND For Sale: Yamaha guitar FG160, -----------B~~~~an we just wanted to say "High!" Coliseum are now an sale at Just For new last June, seldom used. Call The 3 most beautiful girls at SMCI The Record in the 100 Center Lost a silver modem pen friday Dick Hockman Moreau 7735. MAD 
I I1 
Mishawaka! before break. Brand: "AURORA". -------------Happy Birthday to you---------------If found please call Monica 7870. '69 Camaro, rebuilt engine or'69 Happy Birthday to youI Logan Volunteers: St. Patrick's Day It's very important. Fiat Sport Spyder. 288-2484. yt~~~~ ~i~k;a~~;~~ too. ---------------1 Dance Wed., Mar. 30, 7:30-10:00 in ---------------PERSONALS Fluffy Duffy. 
the Logan Cafteria. Any questions FOUND I eyeglass case with wire _______________}F Don't let 3rd floor keep raggin' you. call Art Koebel 8696 or Jeanne ·rimmed glasses from Village Court Cheryl Baggen: Ann: After all, the 3 most beautiful girls
I 1 
Conboy 4347. Optical-Elm Grove Wise. Contact The male dolphin you ordered is in. at SMC still love you.
I 1
-----------284 4552 Lila I said, I promised I wouldn't tell
· You can pick up the dolphin with anybody that you are a Playboy --------------­
0-C Seniors and Grad students: sign -----------illustrated instruction booklet at The Bunny. P. H. You can borrow my U. W. F.
I 1
stadium petition Wed. March 30, Lost-Sapphire ring between Dl and Adult Pet Store. Satisfaction Guar-anytime.first floor LaFortune, 10-lp.m. North Quad. Sentimental value. t Tight-mouth --------------­
---------------Call Mary Beth 4-5470 an eed. ~--------------Taco Bill, 
Consult your broker now! N.D. ---------------uGL.v"Ni"AN"Is-co"MIN<.-:-5..\VE Desperately need ride to Cleveland We heard you've been banging Fin ace Club members will be at Lost: 5-subject spiral notebook, Friday or Saturday to attend friends instead of bonging! Probably so?I booth in Old Bus. Building 10-3. green. Please call 8686 ~~~~~~~~-------Wedding. Call Mary 4524. IBTC 1
I 1 
I K";-;-;.;-;Y-;;nthe-Wailst;;et u;~~-P-;;;:-;-;;;;-;~~;on ~t~\~lk::~~i1n~~~~~a~e;oe~. s.;:e ~~~~-;~:~a-pp~:~~~:~h~ay ;;;;-;,-------------1I 
I 
Journal-Check vour investments-glasses in the second floor women's we don't want you "Farhart"-ing
Mock Stockmarket bathroom of LaFortune. Please ---------------ever, even if you can't celebrate it til around at the formal. 
-S-------F---,----return them to 135 Lewis or call Mary Anne Dempsey·. Al.las D.O. Friday. with love, I.B.T.C. 
ummer europe are: rom 5287 fo 6240. I can't afford a new pair. OSBORNE To the world's greatest lover, me
I 1
$379. Long and short duration -------------(Does that stand for Devasting too flights weekly departures available. Lost: Gold cross on a chain Thurs. Object of Dempsey Odor?)-You're ---------------· MaryI Call Henri, 287-1198 anytime night-probably in the bars. Reward. 20! You've dropped vour defenses, Feeling Depressed? ND-SMC HOt----------------1
---------------Please call Tom-l42l. discovered Donne, got pickled by line 4-4311 open nights. Kathy, 
-------------'-;....-.-.·-Dill. You've bagged your red ---------------Please perform that Florida love Reward for Syr-old silver seiko street-walking tights and acquired Pit-ch In-dance one more time, ·especially
I 1
I 

FOR RENT watch lost In ACC before break. the vocabulary that should have Help clean 324. Send trash to steps 6_9!1I Much sentimental value. Larry gone with them! · IS THIS Morrissey Instead, weird Harold Summer apartment, 2-bedroom, 287-8301 or return to Lost and MOMMY'S LITTLE ANGEL? We -----------------------------­
I 1
completely furnished including dish-Found. hope not! Love and a Happy K.A.S. Natale, I'm giving you something
Washer and al·r cond1.t1·on1·ng. Fully Birthday, I love you. Bear 
-------------mow. do I get a phone call?
carpeted. In nice area within short Lost-Last week. Gold mechanical Your Roomies --------------­walk to N.D. Contact Chris after pencil. Probably on second floor P.S. Keep jogging . you won't have Riders needed. Girlfriend is driving . The Big No~~eg6:OOp.m. at 277-0953 Library or between there and to admire that cellulite in the mirror from NJ to NO on Mon. April 11 and 
I 1 
I 1 
---------------Keenan. Call much longer! returning to NJ Sun. April17. Call De--;r-F;;;,ii;-L::;;;a-;;-----­
3408 . bedroom furnished apartment -------------P.S.S. Bag the socks. Dave 3408· Happiest 19th B-day sprink Break
1 4 1
within walking distance of campus. Found pair of glasses behind eng in-----------------------------and Saturday night were the great-Call William Hill, 232-1724 eerlng Bldg. Call Mike at a9s3. Happy 21st Larry. YOU don't look a est. 
• 
1 

I FURNiSHED'h.;EDROOM___ --------------~~~eceT7~11Panther Mallo~y-fo._r-Hall ~.!_~~~~---------Luv-ya always. IHOUSE FOR RENT, NEXT SEPT. DETROIT CLUB· Will help you find Slob Phone 277-3604 WANTED President a summer job. For info call 233-3605 --------------­
Desperately need ride to Wichita, I love you.
1 ~-:~~~~~~~:~T~;:~~~s~i~ $~~r!is~=:~~=~~:::at ~~iOITC:!.uB________ ~:~~:tA~~i~~rsary. I 
1 
Riverside Dr. Contact Mr. Gatto Kansas for Easter. Diane 4-4348. this will mean anything to you. But Annual Junkr-Senior-Dinner spon. Your little pumpkin seed. 
I 

234-6688 Ne-;d-;;;t;;-N.Y.z.--;;;.-:-n,l~e Happy Birthday anvway. sored by Al1mni club-April 13, FREDK.----------­
I Ro;~fc,;.:;,;;~;,;;e-;:-~ry :f;e~s:t SCali =~~~~ driving and Sue and tfnvJ~ ::::rvatfa~~.. ·.33-3605 for lnfo and NC lost. I think I am going to cry. I: I reasonable, and just a few blocks --------------------...!.---------How about you? from Notre Dame. Phone 277-3604 Ne-;d-;.ld;-t;;,;-,;:~-Ft. Lauder.-WDehaart~sNso'Larad.sYe•, ·t ff ct· DETROIT CLUB • Elections for --------------K. I
1 1 q 
---------------dale area for Easter break. Can M j 197 f · Ul • e e 1ve 1977-78 scheduled for 1st week in DEAR J E A 
I RENT My UPSTAIRS. !IJz ?. ?? PER leave Wed. Will help with expen-ay 't ! · I the pap~r gets a 100 M'!Y· nominations call 233·3~05 or AM 1A ·10 ·•c 0 N 0 • MONTH. Call 253-1329 ses. Please contact Cris 4-4983 or P(:r~en raise ~hY, cant I _get 50? wnte Det. Club 714 St. LoUIS, So. . ·• . ·• AN ADMIRER I ------------Beth 4.4992. n my name 1sn t Mel, e1ther!J Bend, 46617 By April 18th. 
~-----------------------------------------~~
' 
-----~--~-~----------------------__,.,...--~ ­
Wednesday, March 30, 1977 
the observer
8 

FCA: Notre Dame's unknown facet 
b.y Frank LaGroUa with others w)lo share their con­present membership of 40 Notre South Dining Hall for brunch. This girls here attend the Sunday Sports Writer cerns and beliefs. Dame Christian Athletes. gives us a chance to get together, brunch and at Notre Dame, hope­"I've been a member of F.C.A. "Nationally," Reinhart pointed learn what other huddles are doing fully, there will be even more 
What Notre Dame tennis ace since I was in the ninth grade," out, "The F.C.A. is very well and basically get aquainted with all interaction between the two groups Randy Stehlik has in common with revealed Reinhart, "and my mem­organized with the national office F.C.A. members, not just those in next year." Minnesota VIking defensive tackle bership helps me keep a clear head based in Kansas City. There are our own huddles. We have three One of the popular misconcep­Alan Page, Indiana's All-American when I'm competing as well as ditstricts all over the country, each faculty advisors that we call upon tions concerning F.C.A. is that one center, Kent Benson, shares with realize what it means to be an with a national vice-president that for guidance and assistance: must be a varsity athlete to join. Dallas Cowboys quarterback, athlete and a Christian. I've s«:rves as a district leader. The Professor Ken Maloney of the This, according to Wurfel, is not Roger Staubach and Coach Tom learned through F.C.A. to better National Resource Center, where Business Department, Assistant the case. Landry. Along with thousands of understand my life in a Christian all F.C.A. research takes place, is Basketball Coach Frank "All that's necessary for mem­athletes all over the country, these sense.'' ·located in Marshall, Indiana. McLaughlin, and Brother Joe bership in F.C.A. is a genuine men have found something special A national organization with There are camps established McTaggert of the Campus interest in athletics and Christian­iJl their lives in the form of a strong branches at the high school, colle­throughout the United States that Ministry. ity. Athletics is just a means," he faith in Jesus Christ. They belong giate and professional athletic hdp members expand their Chris­However, there is more to being emphasized. "It is an interest we to an organization which allows levels, the Fellowship of Christian tian lives.'' an F.C.A. member than just meet­share, and it helps us relate to one them to share their experiences Athletes was founded in 1954 by "Here at Notre Dame," Reinhart ing in a huddle once a week. Mark another better." with other Christian athletes. The Don McClanen, a student football continued, "members are broken Wurfel, leader of the Holy Cross Reinhart shares the opinion that group is appropriately called the coach at the University of Okla­down into groups called huddles. Hall huddle and F.C.A. campus one need not be an All-American to Fellowship of Christian Athletes. homa. From its birthplace in Each huddle meets with its' leader president -elect for 1977-78, talks be a member of F.C.A. "What we 
According to Jim Reinhart, pres­Norman, Okla., F.C.A. spread to at an appointed time each week to about various activities the huddles try to do," Reinhart said, "is get ident of the Notre Dame chapter of high schools and colleges all over share and discuss activities. engage in. guys together where they can talk F.C.A., membership provides the America. Interestingly enough, it Presently there are four huddles at . "Huddles can get involved in about athletics away from the Christian athlete or the Christian did not reach Notre Dame until Notre Dame and one at Saint many individual activities," Wurfel locker roorri environment, where a with some interest in athletics, the 1973 when Reinhart and Jim Early Mary's. On Sunday mornings from explained. "For example; my person feels compelled to talk dirty opportunity to get together and · established a charter on campus. 12 to one o'clock all members freshman year we did a lot of or tell everyone how he's 'gonna discuss problems and interests From that point it grew to its · gather on the second floor of the service projects like collecting kill that guy.' Members have the 
money at basketball games for the opportunity to openly talk about 
Third World hunger fight and Christianity and relate it to their 
visiting nursing homes in the athletic interests with other guys 
area." like them.'' 
''This year,' 'Wurfel added, One quick to point out the "many members have been busy advantages his F.C.A. membership speaking to various groups in the has provided for him is Irish eager community like confirmation Rich Branning. "F.C.A. helps me classes that request a short talk on to relate God to athletics in a very our organization. My huddle will real way," Branning stated. "It be hosting about 30 kids from an gives me the chance to discuss with area youth home on Sunday, Apr. other Christians various problems 
3. We're planning a picnic lunch as or conflicts with coaches, team well as basketball, volleyball and members or friends, and it helps maybe a film for them.'' me to see how God would want me With the increased emphasis on to react in those situations. women's athletics, F.C.A. has Basically, its helps my spiritual found a home across the lake from growth as a person and it reminds Notre Dame at St. Mary's College. me that athletics is only one part of 
Coordinator of the St. Mary's. my life.'' group, Mary Pielsticker, believes To confront athletes and coaches that F.C.A. has a real future at St. and, through them, the youth of Mary's. our nation, with the cballenge and 
"We have about 12 girls right adventure of following Christ, pu­now that meet an hour once a week tlcipating In His church and serving for fellowship, prayer and Bible. through our vocations. study. The purpose of this is to The motto of the Fellowship of build the member's faith through Christian Athletes is a guideline interaction with other Christians. used by a group of Christians who As far as our relationship with the share a common interest in athlet­Notre Dame F.C.A., I believe that ics, yet realize that life does notjim Reinhart, F.C.A. president, jay Miranda and Mark Sullivan attend a recent meeting of the we are definitely associated. The begin and end on the field of play. 
Notre Dame c~apter of F .C.A. 






~!~~!:~2"!~ot~~.~~e~!!, IGridders open spring practice 
Notre Dame netters this coming or Steve Barrett occupying the 
by Paul Stevenson caller will be an important job of spring drills week as the Irish resume their sixth position. Barrett will be 
Sports Editor L" h d" h · 
regular season schedule with two teaming with either Westphal or . Rusty lsch was the man 'ol m~ t e nu!flber one matches on the road before return-Mike Keiffer for the thrid doubles 
With the NCAA Basketball Tournament having J·ust quarterback spot at .yest~rday s spnng practice. Gll!Y 
. g hom ~ · t pal"n"ng Forystek followed L1sch m the number two slot, while m e .or a smg1e encoun er. . 

ended, the emphasis has already shifted to the J M t h · d th · b
1976
Notre Dame will be at Indiana State .d. h oe on ana, w o ~1sse e. . campa1gn ecause 

. . 

gJrt. Iron, as. t e Notre Dame football te~m opened· of a shoulder separation, practiced m the number three Sunday and at lllmols Monday Trackmen head 
sprmg practice yesterday afternoon on Cartier Field. osition before returning to the Courtney 
There will not be any major strategic changes during I>D_ . · t h' th" d t th h 1· rts £ t h · t M" hi f 111• • 1 tl · · evme en ers IS 1r year a e e m of the Notrecou or a rna c agams IC -or lnOIS mee le course of sprmg dnlls as there were last year. Last D £00tb II t h" tw ty . th f h" gan next Wednesday. Coach Tom 
March, the coaching staff decided to move both Jim am~. a earn, Is en -nm season ° IS Fallon's crew currently sports a S-4 Joe Piane and his irish trackmen 
Browner and Joe Restic from offense to defens_e. co~~ ;ng car~er. . . record following the annual South-will hit the road for their second 
David Waymer is the only planned change at this . I m sta~ng my twenty-mnth season as e~thusl~­ern trip which saw Notre Dame outdoor meet as they travel to 
point. • • W aymer will play ten days on offense and ten tlcally as I d1d when I was a 24 year old coach, Devme split their eight matches. Champaign for the lllinois Invita­
days on defense, and will be playing defense in the remarked. Coach Fallon has had to juggle tiona! Saturday. 
spring game," Head Coach Dan Devine comm~ted. "I think the team attitude is excellent, and I feel great his starting six for the second time "We're very excited to be going 
The Fighting Irish boast 20 returning starters from to be getti1_1g back out." since fall practice because of the down to Champaign because this 
last year's 9-3, Gator Bowl Championship, squad.· Several Irish gridders will not be participating in resignations of Brain Hainline and gives us the best opportunity to see 
However, the problem that has plagued the Irish in the spring practice. Jeff Weston, Jerome Heavens, Leroy Tony Bruno during the spring trip. where we'll be headed this sea-
past, will also be a trouble spot this spring. Leopold, David Mitchell, Mark Quinn, Keith McCor­Both junior pre-med majors have son," admitted Piane, who return-
Because of the loss of 1976 starting quarterback Rick mick and Mark Czaja will not take part in spring decided to concentrate their efforts ed from Tuscaloosa during mid" 
Slager to graduation, the task of securing a new signal workouts because of injuries. 
::~=:=i~t::~i::!~s::r~east the :~~s:r;:~b:!~ ~n!~!~~~:f.e 
"I have had to dip down into the "We're hoping that our younger jayvee ranks to bring up players to runners will be able to do their best fill their slots,'' Fallon acknowled-to get into some kind of competitive ged. "We should be just about shape.'' ready to go for the Indiana State Piane will be counting on match.'' sophomores Dennis Vanderdraats 
Senior captain Randy · Stehlik (the school record holder in the will continue as Fallon's number steeplechase) and Steve Welch in one man at singles while freshman the distance events, Pete Burger, Carlton Harris has been elevated to Dave Gutschenritter and Mike the second slot, taking Hainlaine' s Sexton in the middle di~tances, and place. Stehlik played well in Ahmad Kazimi and Tim Kardok in winning the first three matches the jumps. Kenny Lynch and Jeff down South while Harris was Anderson will represent the Irish in impressive in splitting his matches. the sprints. Stehlik will combine with Harris for "I think the talent is here on this the first top doubles pairings. team, and what is needed is some 
Moving up to the third singles meet competition for the guys," postion will be Marty Horan, the admitted Piane. "If we have a winner of five of eight matches good showing here, this· weekend, during the trip. Horan will also be then I think we'll have a rather doubling with Bob Koval for Notre successful outdoor campaign." Dame's second doubles pairings. Following the Illinois ·meet, the Koval is Fallon's choice for the Irish thinclads journey to Jones­Head Coach Dan Devine began his third year as football coach, as the Irish gridders began spring fourth singles player. boro, Arkansas for the Arkansas 
drills yesterday on Cartier Field.
·Mark Trueblood· will be in the State Invitational April 9. 

It 1 .'11., ... • .••. t '. ,·.:.. ' •. ~ '' . .. • .. ·' 
t .f-• . j .• l 

;-.\.. ~-.·.· •. -.. ·.·~~-~~,.J··c ' ..,· :. l ~--~ .·' ~ ;. 
. e ' 






