University leaders respond to protest by ND black students 
by Ann Gales tion and cannot be ignored. Staff Reporter -Hesburgh urged membes of the Notre Dame communtiy ''to be 
Fr. Theodore Hesburgh, Univer-alert to the worm of prejudice that sity president, Bro. Just Paczesny, we all have within us,'' and to treat vice-presicent for student affairs, one another with respect, love and and James A. Roemer, dean of care. in ~rder to create a "very students, issued statements yester-spectal kind of community here day regarding the sit-in staged by where all belong equally, where we black students last Thursday. <;h:~sh our common humanity 
In his letter, addressed to the whatever our individual differen­faculty, admininstration and stu-ces." dents of Notre Dame, Hesburgh In his statement, Paczesny out­said that the specific grievances lined the commitments made by his presented by the black students office to the black students, descri­last week have all been dealt with. bing these commitments as "a sign However, he expressed concern of good will to do something and about racist attitudes perceived by not merely to say that I am only the black students on campus. concerned." 
Hesburgh commented that he Of top priority, Paczesny said, 
· would personal!y like to believe will be the selection of a full-time that racism is not a problem on the Minority Student Coordinator by Notre Dame campus, but admitted the Black Student Affairs Commit­that "racism and prejudice are like tee. Hopefully, this position will be termites that somehow get into the filled by September, 1977. Second­house." The fact that a relatively ly, the minority students on cam­large number of students have felt pus will be invited to select three the presence of racist attitudes on students as candidates for appoint­campus, Hesburgh said, indicates ment to the Student Affairs Com­that the situation deserves atten-, mittee of the Board of Trustees, 
Dear Notre Dame Faculty, Administrators, and 
Students: · 
I had a meeting with concerned black students last week. We discussed a variety of problems that they presented. In general, I think that all of the problems are now either solved or on the way to a solution. 
More important than the specific problems was what they perceived as attitudes here and there on campus that might be described as racist. Our easiest reaction might be: no, never. There cannot possible be racism on a campus as open and caring as Notre Dame. 
One l~sson I have learned over the years is that if a reasonably large number of people perceive that something is wrong, it deserves attention, whatever my personal perception might be. I have found this to be particularly true when it concerns the perception from one side of a situation that lends 
itself  to  tension:  men  and  women,  faculty  and  
students,  administration  and  faculty,  black  and  
white, or whatever.  

I like to believe that ugly realities like overt racism and prejudice are generally absent here. Having spent so much time fighting these ugly realities all over the country in the sixties and early seventies, I would be very disappointed to find them alive and active here at home. 
Even so, I must admit that racism and prejudice are like termites that somehow get into the house. The main purpose of these few lines is to say that if our black students at times seem to perceive evidence of racism and prejudice among us, it well behooves all of us to be more alert to what is being perceived and why. Some frank conversations between blacks and whites, such as we had last week, would be helpful to both sides. I would be the first to admit that prejudice is a hardy weed that often flourishes despite our best efforts to stamp it out in our judgments and actions. 
I thought that the editorial "Discrimination Meditation" in last Friday's Observer stated the case very well. All that I can add at this time is an invitation to each one of you, and to myself, to be alert to the worm of prejudice that we all have within us. I otten find myself correcting my judgements when prejudice lurks in the background. It necessitates a constant effort to remind ourselves that we are all equal in the sight of God, that we are 
indeed brothers and sisters, that the differences of race, or nationality, or religion or sex are no valid excuse for discrimination or prejudice or blind adherence to ancient and benighted stereotypes. This will be a good community if we are each open to the other, if respect for each other equally abounds, if love and care motivate our dealings with each other. That may sound like Utopia in a world that is often unfair and cruel. However, it is precisely this atmosphere that will make everyone feel equally welcome and cherished at Notre Dame, and anything less is unworthy of all of us, if indeed we are what we claim to be at Notre Dame. 
I expect that the great majority of you agree with me in this hope for a very special kind of community here where all belong equally, where we cherish our common humanity whatever our individual differ­ences. 
For your personal help in making this ideal become ever more real here at Notre Dame, I am most grateful. 
~er devotedly in Notre Dame, 

J-~~ 
(Rev:) Theodore M. , ~esburgl-t, r ;.clj·/; Ij Pres1dent ·11 
======-~ 
Paczesny said. 
Also, the Office for Student Affairs will assist the Notre Dame Gospel Choir in funding· after a budget has been proposed and approved. 
Finally, Paczesny stated that "the Office of Student Affairs will share the topics discussed and proposals suggested by the black students with the various directors under its jurisdiction." 
Roemer expressed deep concern about the problem of discrimina­tion on the Notre Dame campus and "what appears to be wide­spread indifference to racial prob­lems on the part of the University as a whole." Although Roemer stated that he believes Notre Dame is "better than most white middle­class institutions in the area of discrimination," he said that the University should be more concer~ ned with improvement in that area. 
Essentially, Roemer observed, the problem is ignorance and the solution is education. He sugges­ted that blacks assume the roles of teachers as well as students in order to provide the education necessary for the elimination of discrimination. 
Roemer stressed the importance 
[continued on page 5] 



A professor of art and his five-year-old son have teamed up for a "Two-Man Show" which began yesterday in the Isis Gallery of the Old Fieldhouse on the campus. Don Vogl and son jim were present for the opening reception. Described as a "seri9olJS approach to playful art or a playful approach to serious ~rt," the show will be open from 11 
a.m. to 5 p.m. through Friday. Works to be exhibited incl~de drawings and other art objects created bv. the pair durmg the last year. The youthful artist has been seriously interested in drawing for more than a year and has produced seme highly acclaimed works. 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's Vol. XI, No. 119 Tuesday, April 26, 1977 
Oil, gas continue to spill from North Sea platform 
STAVANGER, Norway (AP] -A to~al calm followed by gala-force wmds and 20-foot waves yesterday blocke_d effo~s of cap the three~d~y old spill of od from the Bravo. ng m the No:th S~a and to contam the spreadmg shck. . 
The o~~hore oil well operated by the Ph~lhps Petroleum . Co. .of Bartlesvtlle, Okla., continued to spew out natural g_as and 49,000 gall~ns of c~de oil every h~ur, feedmg a shck alre!ldy 20. mtl~s long a~d three J?iles wtde m Norway s Ekofisk oil field. . 
. Two experts from t~e Red Adarr oil well, trouble fightmg team of H_ouston, Tex., Boots Hansen and Rtchard Hatte~berg, had planned to start operattons to cap the well early· . 
But the mornmg calm created a d_angerous concentration of explo­stve gas a~d prevented the men from mountmg the Bravo platfo~. They were expected to try agam today. . . 
In the evemng, g~le force wmds de~e~oped, cancelh!lg plans. _by Philhps and Norwe~an ~uthonties to surro~nd the s!tck wtth ~~ms and begm .collectin~ the ~il ~to ta~ers wtth spectal skunmmg equtpmen!· . 
Waves 1!1 the area were satd to be more than 20-feet high, making the use of floating b?Oms impossi­bl_e. B~t experts satd the storm, wtth wmds of up to 43 knots, could also serve to break down the spill 
naturall~. 
~e wmd ~rned south-westerly, movmg the ~!tck toward the south­ern Norwegtan coast. The Norwe­gian Meterological ~stitute said the southwest~rly wtnds are ex-pect~d to wn~mue for three days, pushmg the oil 45 miles toward the 
coast. 
The Ekofisk field is about 170 

miles from the southern tip of 
Norway. Winds first blew the slick 
toward the Danish coast at Jutland, 
and then shifted Sunday night, 
pushing it toward the Scottish coast 
200 miles to the west. 
Officials said they have decided 

not to use special chemicals on the 
oil slick to break it up unless it 
comes seriously close to shore. 
Sea-life experts have warned that 
the dispersant chemicals might 
destroy rich mackerel spawning 
grounds in the sea. 
Phillips spokesman Kjetil Folme 

said the company had received 
Norwegian government approval 
for its plans to cap the pipe, 
bringing oil up from 10,000 feet 
beneath the sea floor. He said at 
best, the operation would take two 
or three days. 
The rig "blew" on Friday during 

routi;ne maintenance. With all pro­
duction from the Ekofisk field shut 
down, Norway is losing an estimat­
ed 5300,000 a day in revenues. 
Folme said Hansen and Hatten­. berg were on board the pipe laying 
barge Tucto alongside the Bravo 
rig. 
The two specialists from the Red 

Adair Oil Well Fire and Blowout 
Pre'vention Co. had mounted the 
platform twice on Sunday and 
reported that the blowout was only 
a partial one, and at least one 
safety valve along the pipe was still 
holding closed. · 
Folme said the operation will 

invilve trying to fit a multi valve cap 
over the pipe to stop the flow. ·If it 
fails to bold workers will fit more 
valves so they can start pumping 
heavy drilling mud into the pipe to 
hold down the oil and gas. 
In Britain, fishermen and en­

vironmentalists warned that the slick could turn large stretches of the fish-rich waters into a dead sea. 
Fred Holliday, a government marine biologist, said the oil may sweep across fresh fish, eggs floating on the surface, threatening stocks of plaice, sloe, haddock, whiting and herring over the next three years. 
The British Fishing Federation said it was "extremely worried." An expert on oil pollution said shellfish and seabirds are also in danger. 
Ifthe spill continues until Friday, experts estimate it will match the 
7.6 million gallons dumped into the sea by the broken tanker Argo Merchant off Nantucket Island, Mass., last December. The worst tanker spill in history was the 29 million gallons from the wreck of the supertanker Torrey Canyon off southwest England in 1967. 
In a related development, the Supreme Court in Washington let stand a lower court decision allow­ing the government to penalize those responsible for oil spills in 
U.S. waterways even if they obey the law and report them. 
Barge owners had cballebged the ruling saying it was unfair to penalize vessel owners who report sDills themselves. 
An Tostal follow-up­
see page 6 

~----------~-----~-~--~-----~ 
the observer Tuesday, April 26, 1977 


,...___News Briefs , 
I============~~===Nationru 
Reporter reveals corruption' 
WASHINGTON -A Chicago reporter told a House committee yesterday of masquerading as a janitor to gather information about medical practices in a Chicago hospital, and frequently being ordered by doctors or nurses to drop his mop and help with operating room duties. The hospital is no longer in business, but William Gaines, Chicago Tribune reporter, said the "assembly line surgery" there caused doctors and nurses to requently order non-medical employees to move patients or watch over them briefly while nurses were busy. 

Young president accused 
RAMONA Calif. -The 12-year-old president of a company with gross earnings of up to $3,000 monthly has been ordered to appear before the state Board of Equalization to explain why the firm has no permit to sell its product--manure. Richard Cessna, Jr., president of Kidco, Inc., and his three young co-officers, ages nine to 14, also been accused by the state of failing to charge sales tax. 
.,__On Campus Today~ 
11 am -5 pm. 
4:30pm 
7 pm 7 pm 7:30pm 
7:30 & 
10:30 pm­8 pm 
show.. two man show, father and son: a serious approach to playful art or a playful approach to serious art. don & jim vogl. isis gallery. 
seminar. "the secondary sexual characteristics of salamanders" by dr. david sever, dept. of biology, smc. rm. 278 galvin life science center. 
drama. "mother courage." vegetable buddies. sponsored by nd-smc theater. free admission. 
fantasy & religion symposium. "christianity & fairytales" by otto bird, nd. library aud. 
meeting. charis~atic eucharistic prayer meeting. log chapel. 
film. "metropolis" by fritz lang. eng. aud. $1. 
meeting. first meeting of the local chapter of the indiana civil liberties union. michael lee gradison, 
v.p. iclu will speak. south bend public library. 
8:30pm fantasy & religion symposium. "the voice of c.s. lewis" by clyde kilby. library aud. 


ND Law School Civil Rights Center to hold lecture series this week 
by Chris Datzman Senior Staff Reporter 

The Center for Civil Rights of Notre Dame Law School will spon­sor an international symposium on human rights tomorrow through Saturday. 
The purpose of the symposium, according to Donald P. Kommers, director of the center, is to bring together leading human rights scholars and elicit their thoughts on the problems concerning the inter­national protection of human rights in the world today. 
Among those invited to present papers are Rita E. Hauser, former delegate to the United Nations Commission on Human Rights, John Brademas, Majority Whip, 
U.S. House of Representatives, Donald Fraser, House of Represen­tatives and Karl Vasak, director of the Internaitonal Institute of Hu man Rights. Fr. Theodore Res­burgh. University president, will preside over the evening session on Friday. 
The Civil Rights Center yearly sponsors several conferences, con­centrating on a different theme each year. This year's theme, International Human Rights, is in keeping with the modern trend towards world-wide awareness, 
and in particular, with President 


ERRATUM 

The Center for Continuing Edu­cation is not sponsoring a pollution control workshop this week as reported in yesterday's Observer. The workshop was held last week. 
Blood drive held for hemophiliacs 

The Office of Volunteer Services is sponsoring another blood drive for the needs of a local family 
todayy through Thursday at the Infirmary. · d · d t'
Anyone mtereste m ona mg Jimmy Carter's human rights poli­
cy. 
''The issue of human rights is a 
very salient one these days," said 
Kommers. "Carter's human rights 
policy is becoming very controver­
sial and we want to explore the 
extent of human rights in various 
parts of the world." 
The revived interest in human 
rights is a result of declining liberal 
democracy and continuous racial 
discrimination in many countries, 
as well as an increase in the 
number of political prisoners and 
acts of transnational violence, 
Kommers noted. The symposium 
will explore these issues and 
examine more deeply the source, 
range and meaning of human 
dignity in today's world. 
The four day symposium will be 
broken down into seven sessions. 
Each session will feature one to 
three speakers who will present a 
summary oftheir papers. After the 
short presentation, discussants will 
ask questions or offer comments 
under the direction of a chairman­
rapporteur. Discussants will in­
clude representatives from second 
and third world countries and 
various international human rights 
organizations. 
Featured in the symposium are 
the Sixth Annual Civil Rights 
Lectures. The two lectures, "Hu­
man Rights: A Global Assessment" 
and "The Helsinki Agreement and 
Human Rights," will be delivered 
by A.H. Robertson from the Univ­
ersity of Paris 
Robertson is a former director of 
the Human Rights Council of Stras­
bourg, and author of several books 
on international law and human 
rights. Included in his works are 
Human Rights in Europe, Human 
Rights In National and Inter­
national Law, and Human Rights in 
the World. 
Established in 1973 by a grant 


from theT~'~,;~;tion, the 
BERTOTT BRECHT'S 
MOTHER COURAGE 
DIRECTED BY LIZ KARU 

7:00 VEGETABLE BUDDIE ADMISSION FREE 
center's main purposes are to build and maintain a civil-human rights research and documentation cen­ter, to analyze and suggest solu­tions to current human rights problems, and to serve as a resource for the educational pur­suira of the University. 
During the past year the center has been collecting resources in international human rights and has recently published International Human Rights 1970-1976: A BlbUograpby The center's ar­chives also include all of the papers almost 15,000, collected by Res­burgh during his tenure as the chairman of the U.S. Commission of Civil Rights and records of the Presidential Clemency Board. 
All Notre Dame students are invited to attend any of the sessions or lectures. 
Lacro-sse Club elects officers 

The Notre Dame Lacrosse Club elected their new officers for the 1977-78 season. Richard Mazzei, a junior from Everett. Mass., will replace Jay Williams as the new Club President. Tim Walsh was elected as the Vice-President. Next season the Irish will have tri-cap­tains. They are Pat Clynes, Mike Kinsella, and Jim Searola. The new officers look forward to a great season next year. 
need resumes in a hurry? 

~~ 


insfy•prinfS 
the wiz of the printint biz! 
rag bond 
2 5 -8 1/2 X l l $2.5 5 203 N. Mam 

blood may report to the Infirmary. L;:===========L.:..!:::So=Be=n=d====:::2:8:9:-:6;-9.;.7,;.,
The drive was orgamzea to help thP-· 
Beebe family who are hemophi­liacs, requiring over $50,000 worth of blood each year. Blood donations given by the Notre Dame-St.' Mary's community at the Infirmary can be transferred to the Beebe_ family if the donator so requests. 
The blood drawing station at the Infirmary asks that students call before coming to assure no delay. For more information, contact the Infirmary at 7497 or the Volunteer Services Office at 7308. 
*The Observer 
Night Editor: Bill Rivard sst. Night_ Editor: Frank Keb 
layout Staff: Cindy McKie(, 
Chris Smith, Marti Hogan 

Editorial  Layout:  Maureen  
Flynn  
Sports  layout:  Frank  

LaGrotta, Paul Stevenson Typists: Stephanie Urillo, Mel Celeste Night Controller: Donald Roos Day Editor: Mary Pat Tarpey Copy Reader: Barb Langhenry Ad layout: Pat Russell 
1ht• Observer" publi'>hed Monddv through 1-nddV and weekly dunng 

· the summer ~es~1on. except dunng the exam and vacation periods The Observer is publ1shed by students of the University of Notre Dame and St Mary's College Subscriptions may be purchased for $20 per year ($10 per semester) from The Obser­ver, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 Second class postage pq1d, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 The Observer is a member of the Associated Press All reproduction rights are reserved ·'­
1 
ND 

Fiddler on the Roof 
The loving theatrical hymn to the Jewish people based the Sholem Aleichem stories 
SMC 
Apr. 29, 30 May 5, 6, 7 THEATRE 8:00pm Olauglin Aud. 284-4176 $2.50 ($2 std./fac.) 
rest~urant and Lounge BAR·B·QU£ & BEER FEATURING THE FINEST IN HICKORY SMOKED BARBECUE COOKED OVER AN OPEN PIT WITH SPECIAL SAUCE PITCHEROFBEERWITH EVERYDINNERFREE ' • (TUESDAYS ONLY)  
HAPPY HOUR DAILY! 25c Beers3-7 pm Pitchers $1.00 & $1.25  
1132 SOUTH BEND AVENUE 3P.M. to MIDNIGHT WEEKDAYS PHONE 289-0639 l P . to:-A ·: WEEKENDS  

Professor Clyde Kilby of Wheaton College spoke last night on "Tolkein Today," as part of a symposium on Fantasy and Religion sponsored by the Student Union Academic Commission. Otto Bird, Notre Dame professor of General Program, will speak tonight at 7 p.m. in the Library Auditorium on "Christianity and Fairy Tales." He will be followed by Kilby who will speak at 8:30 on "The Voice of c,.~i$':1{..Ji:.....-:v"·"'t.:~·-:::.:-· ·---.....,.,._,..,_,. '"''' .· .. • . 
Tuesday, April 26, 1977 the observer 3' 
open letters 
To: .The Notre "Dame Community 
I am concerned about the problem of discrimination raised by the Concerned Black Students in their statement of April20. This concern is heightened by what appears to be widespread indifference to racial problems on the part of the University community as a whole. I personally confess I hardly know how to describe or how to begin dealing with the issue of racial discrimination in a satisfactory and public way. 
I am aware of many conscious and unconscious acts of racial discrimination, some petty, others not so petty, that remain hidden behind the facade of indifference and hostility. 
I am sure that Notre Dame is better than most wh1te middle-class institutions in the area of discrimina­tion. We would, of course, like to believe that Notre Dame is much better off than most, and rapidly improving. But is it? At the very least, substantial improvement should become a priority in the list of University priorities. 
Since Notre Dame is an educational institution, it comes as no surprise that the problem is essentially one of education. We need to be educated to the extent and measure of the racial problem in this place. Ignorance is the enemy. But who will teach us? There is no obvious or simple solution to this problem. The Blacks need the wisdom, patience and determination to address a problem that is only dimly seen by most of us. What an admission to make after so much discrimination, so many protests, so much research! 
Is it fair to ask the Blacks to assume the good will of the majority of us in this enterprise? If such a deliberate and difficult act of faith is indeed made, it will then be necessary to raise issues and confront acts of discrimination with the purpose of both solving specific problems as well as at the same time educating the whole community. I am suggesting that the Blacks become teachers as well as students. 
The issue of human rights has become an issue of national and worldwide importance. It has become the theme of domestic and foreign policies, of conferences, workshops and seminars. It becomes intolerable for honest people at a Catholic university to speak out against violations of human rights in far-off places if we are indi~nt to similar 
~he<e~he2rw p~ay ~ ~ r '~::A~ Roemer 
I'--Dean of Students 
To: The Notre Dame Family It would have been good to have had everyone who works or studies at Notre Dame listen to the concerned Black students this past April 21. That privilege was mine and that of the Dean of Students, Mr. Jim Roemer. 
The presentations were clear and precise with the desire to solve irritating and disruptive problems with sincere action and not mere rhetoric. 
Since the concerns of minority students touch many of the operations of the Office of Student Affairs, I have made the following commitments as a sign of good will to do something and not merely to say that I am only concerned: 
1. 
The top priority is to select a full-time Minority Student coordinator. The position has been on a part-time basis for several years. A search by t.he Black Student Affairs Committee will seek qualitied candidates interested in such service to fill the position, hopefully by September 1977. 

2. 
To assure input of the minority concerns with the Student Affairs Committee of the Board of Trustees, on behalf of the Chairman of the Committee, I extend an invitation to the minority students to select three students as candidates for appoint­ment by the Chairman to the Committee. 

3. 
The Notre Dame Gospel Choir, having been duly recognized by the Student Activities Office, will be assisted in funding after a suggested budget has been presented to the Office of Student Affairs. 

4. 
The Office of Student Affairs will share the topics discussed and proposals suggested by the Black students to the various Directors under its jurisdiction. 


Finally, Notre Dame must not be a place where one group in any way considers itself better than another and I will vigorously oppose any prejudicial actions that· are brought to the attention of the Off1ce for Student Affairs. 
~J:::::"f(.
Vice President -Student Affairs 
COUP report determines use for monies from Campaign 
by Marti Hogau Edltor-ID-Chlef 

Editor's note: This Is the fourth lu a series of articles explaiDIDg the recommeudatlous of the COUP report aud their relation to the Campalgu for Notre Dame. 
Although endowed professor­

ships enhance the academic atmo­
sphere at Notre Dame, a great deal 
of emphasis is also placed on the 
academic support ofthe University. 
As a result the Campaign for Notre 
Dame plans to set aside 
$29,500,000, the second largest 
component of the $92 million 
endowment, for the support of 
these programs. 
Five areas are included in aca­

demic support: library endow­
ment, academic programs, compu­
ter center expansion, teacher deve­
lopment and University Press. 
One third of the academic sup­

port endowment, or $10 million, 
will go to supportUniversitylibrar­
ies. When the Memorial Library 
opened in 1963 it was the largest 
collegiate library building in the 
world. This is no longer true, but 
the physical facilities are still in 
good condition. The main focus of 
the library endowment will be on 
the collections of books in the 
libraries because of inflation in the 
cost of books. 
The Committee on Unviersity 

Priorities(COUP) noted: "We must 
be careful to conserve and improve 
our collection because a temporary 
erosion is bothdifficult and expen­
sive to repair." The University has 
moved to stop the deterioration of 
its collections by increasing the 
budget a1Jocation for the libraries. 
Notre Dame has already acted ona 
COUP recommendation by estab­
lishing a special endowment for 
University libraries. However, the 
Univeristy feels the need to further 
increase this endowment to offset 
rising costs of maintaining and pur­
chasing books and related materi­
als. 
Academic programs also serve 

an important function in academic 
disciplines. Therefore, the Cam-
The Edward Frederik Sorin A­ward of Notre Dame's Alumni Association will be presented this year to Edmund A. Stephan, the first lay chairman of the Univer­~itY's Board of Trustees. The , Chicago attorney will receive the award from Robert E. Dowd of Cleveland, national president, dur­ing the Reunion Banquet scheduled 
for June 4 on the campus. 
Named for the founder of the University, the Sorin Award is presented annually to an alumnus for distinguished service to Notre Dame and for leadership in his profession. Previous winners have included Fr. Theodore M. Res­burgh, president of the Univeristy, former president Fr. John J. Cav­anaugh, the late Archbishop Paul 
..• NEEDWW-COST 
I

J. Halliana of Atlanta, James E. 
TRANSPORTATION? 
I I


Armstrong, the first director of the ·I We can help.
alumni group. J. Arthur Haley, . Cont.ct:
directior of public relations at Notre 
I I
Auto Driveaway Co.

Dame for 44 yea,s, and others. _ 
674-9786 
I 1 

A 1933 magna cum laude grad-·I DeposltRequlrecl uate of Notre Dame, Stephan was J Returned at Destination I elected in 1967 to head the reor-e --Moat be 21.--1 1 
ganized board or trustees on the ·---·-•-... I 
Cinemai?7J presents 
Fritz Lang's 
~~9:~~3~ ~M 
''METROPOLIS'' 
NOTRE DAME
April 26 & 27 
Engineering Aud. 
. . 

7:30 and 10 Admission $1.00 
I 1BOOKSTORE 
-·­

•,--..-...-----_.......---~ -...• .......-_................... ,."'..-.,.., ..:·•. • ..... .. • -.........: ••...-••...-..._: ·~ ...~: ..-..-~ • ., .. "_. ..... ·...... '· ·.;·.:~ ·_-:-. --.. .I~ 
Toast To An Tostal 
Indiana weather has been known to cast events. A lot of time and cooperation (and a damper over even the most well-planned not a little money) went into the circus and occasion, but despite cloudy skies and the ping pong drop (which may still come intermittent rains, An Tostal '77 was a off this semester), and into the festival as a thundering success. whole. The James E. Brogan award for 
The expansion of the formerly three-day originality was well-bestowed on St. festival to five days enabled the committee Mary's for turning this place into a circus. to schedule more events outside of class An Tostal is the result of a lot of time so more students were able to brain-storming, anguish and sweat byparticipate. many people: the Hall Presidents Council, 
This year's committee came up with a hall residents, the An Tostal Committee, number of unique events to round out the and the staffs and administrations of both traditional line-up: the fish relay, Earth­St. .Mary's and Notre Dame. ball soccer, the slam dunk contest, Special thanks and congratulations to superstars, to name a few. Chairman Keefe .Montgomery and Chair­
Particularly noticeable was the woman Tina Sordyl and their troops for increased involvement of St. .Mary's in the waging a successful campaign againstplanning and executing of An Tostal wind and rain and dark of night. .. 
P.O.Box Q 
library, use the lounge--they are noted, 'to take care of a week's there for you. But please respect worth of shirts'," in commenting the library for what it is, and try to on the food. You lack the culinary
Shakespeare 
v. 
be conscious of the simple courtesy experience in Chinese cuisine--two we owe each other when we study innocent babes entering into the and relax there. It only takes a land of oriental exotica and coming 
'twing-twang' little. away unsatisfied. The dishes that Thomas G. Soma, Jr. you described, and had, are staples Student Body Vice-President in the Chinese diet--when you put
To the Editor, down this food, you are puttingOn April 5, the National Theatre 
Dave Bender down the dietary conceptions of a
Company descended upon 
Student Body President people who constitute 20 percent of O'Laughlin Auditorium to perform the human population on thissketches from the plays of Shakes­earth. It might also interest youpeare. But a small handful of that the Chinese restaurant m
'A/l-in-fun'

people was there to judge the question is considered to be one ofmerits of the performance. On my the better oriental restaurants inreturn to the Notre Dame campus I the Michiana area among the was welcomed by a bombardment isn't Chinese community in South Bend,
of screeching "twings" and 
and to say that the food is lousy"twangs" jetting from stereos Dear Editor, puts a broad implication in ourhuddled over by young men and In response to the many quest­cultural backs.
ions and opinions which have been 
women. And I thought: land of the You artiCle shows much to me.
offered me regarding the "riot"
free, home of the brave? 
You lack the knowledge of the
incident last Monday night be­
Ed Featherstone socio-economic fight Chinese, as
tween Keenan a.nd Stanford, I feel 
well as other Asians, have encoun­
the need to express myself. First of 
tered ever since their advent in the
all, at the time 1 was passing 
United States. This was well
It only takes 
Stanford that night I was not 
covered up by your resorting to
among the "beautiful girls wearing 
those stereotypic roles perpetrated
nightgowns and bathing suits" as
a Iittle 
by the white society in general.
The Observer might have led some 
These people, who make theirto believe.
Dear Editor: restaurant, did not come over as
Secondly, many have asked me
As everyone knows, the Memor­part of a huge chain-conglomerate: 
why I reported the incident. I
ial Library on campus attempts to They came over to establish what
called Security because I was
offer every student an atmosphere they dreamed to do in the United
frightened, having been threaten­
conducive to pursuing his academic States, their land of opportunity. 
ed, chased, and bodily picked up by 
interests. As everyone also knows, They had to make do with what
persons whom I did not know. I
the second floor of the library is a they had--yes, even resorting to the 
realize that harm was not intended, 
great place to relax, get to know "Made in Japan" chinaware, be­
but I don't believe that anyone or
people, and take a break from the cause of cost--to be where they are
any group has the right to threaten
rigors of those pursuits. '"-tThe now.
another with physical abuse, be
library's second floor lounge func­And 'to think that this college
that threat in earnest or not.

tions very much like a viable community, supposedly of broad
Some say that such action is
student center should, and it is only mind and scope, actually harbors
simply "all-in-fun" and part of the 
too sad that our present student such thoughts and resentment, to
rowdiness embodied in the Notre
center cannot boast of the same those of different culture and race.
Dame spirit--I strongly disagre'!.
success. The fact remains, how­The timing of this article in
Notre Dame, as a Christian com­
ever, that the second floor lounge Is question with the new spiritual
munity cannot be a sanctuary for
not a student center. Although it such violations of individual rights uplifting of another ethnic com­
has been designed to provide .uumty ot this fabled University,
and dignity, however "fun" that
students an opportunity for a study must be applauded, for it brings an
may appear to some. I don't mean
break, it is neither designed nor entirelv new oersoective to the role
to imply that I believe displays of
equipped to handle the numbers of of Asians in this college
spirit and excitement to be wrong,
people who informally gather there community.
because they are definitely part of
at certain hours and the noise Eugene Y. Yang, Coordinator 
university life. However, I think
which has characterized such ND-Ameraslan Alliance 
more effort is necessary on the part
gatherings. It has become appar­
of the students as well as the,
ent that the noise level in the 
University to prevent such displays 
Thank you,

library has detracted from the 
from developing into potentially
academic atmosphere which should 
dangerous, undisciplined mobs,
exist there, and is preventing the 
searching for a "good time" at the 
ugly people

library from realizing its full poten­
expe~se of whomever comes along.
tial as a service to the Notre Dame Colleen French Dear Editor,community. Put simply, we have a This year's Ugly Man on Campus problem on our hands. 
Certainly the magnitude of the contest was the most successful 
ever. As members of Alpha Phi
O'Reiley

problem does not seem overwhelm­Omega, we wish to take the time to ing; however, the problem is one thank: people such a· Beppo andthat each of us can and should be Orest, along with everyone who
stiII insu.lting
doing something about. On the participated in UMOC, for theirpart of the library, Mr. Sparks, the Dear Mr. O'ReUey and Mr. O'NeU, contributions to Sister Marrita'sdirector, has consulted with acou­I refer to your column, "Magnif­Primary Day School. We would also stical engineers who are research­
ing the feasibility of surface icent Meals in Michiana", in the like to express our gratitude to The changes and carpet installation. 
April 22 Observer. Frankly, I'm Observer, Notre Dame Vending, amazed at the depths you descend­Security, the Dining Halls, Campus 
That will certainly help alleviate the problem, but it will not solve it. ed to in trying to elicit a humorous Press, and the An Tostal Commit­
tee. Without the aid of theseWhat will solve it, though, is a little response to your article reviewing a our contest
bit of effort on the part of all of us local Chinese restaurant. organizations, would 
who take advantage of the library It was obvious you didn't like the not have been possible. Tuesday the list of all voting will be posted
and its lounge. Please, when you food. It was also obvious that you in the Huddle for public inspection. 
are in the lounge, try to keep your lack the confidence to bring off an conversation down to a reasonable obiective article, having to resort to We invite you to see how you 
figured in the voting. Again, thanklevel. Be considerate of your blatant, stereotypic statements, you to all involved.
friends who have to study and such as "The rice at our table.... everyone will be happy. Use the was 'starchy enough', Mr. O'Neil The members of Alpha Phi Omega 
*The Observer" 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary'!'> 
The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College It does not necessarily reflect the policies of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters are the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and letters are encouraged to promote the free expression of varying opinions on campus. 
EDITORIAL BOARD 
Marti Hogan Editor-in-Chief Martha Fanning Managing Editor Bob Brink Asst. Managing Ed. Kathy Mills Executive Editor Maureen Flynn Editorial Editor Barb Breitenstein Exec News Editor TGm Byrne Campus Editor Jean Powley St. Mary's Editor Katie Kerwin News Editor Paul Stevenson Sports Editor Pat Cole Special Projects Ed David O'KeefE:> Features Editor 
Tuesday, April 26, 1977 
opinion 
Equal opportunity, reverse discrimination ~iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii-· irma d. herrera 
In response to Mr. John Cava­Would the average lawyer be able naugh's letter, I would like to to read Vernon's Statutes, examine clarify a few facts about merit and a contractual problem or a Wor­reverse discrimination. I whole­kers' Compensation form, and then heartedly agree with Mr. Cava­turn to a client and explain to him naugh that part of the problem is or her the legal issues in Spanish? the inferior educational institutions The answer of course is No. Most available to minorities and the poor students graduating from Law in general. In 1954 the United school are monolingual and mono­States Supreme Court in Brown v. cultural. And the present legal Board of Edul'ation decided that profession is overwhelmingly male the tremendous disparity between and white. 1, much like yourself. the schools available to whites and am not surprised to see that some to blacks required that the schools of my peers opt for a more lucrative be integrated if the children were practice than serving an impover­ever to have equal educational ished community. I am encouraged opportunity. Yet 23 years later the to know that Chicanos work in schools remain essentially segre­securities regulation, or that Blacks gated. And I don't see a tremen­are international law experts, or dous surge of concern to reassign that an Indian is an expert in oil, spending priority in this country to gas and mineral law. After all, it is give more educational opportunity only morally just that individuals to all children. pursue whatever calling they 
I need not remind you that. save choose. I must tell you however, 
for Amy Carter. most children of that I do know many minority 
national decision-makers attend ex­professionals that have returned to 
clusive private and expensive aca­serve their group 
demies. That option is not avail­The next time you talk to a 
able to the poor and most people of minority student who was not 
color. Improving elementary and admitted into professional school 
secondary public education is cer­(because of low standardized test 
tainly a priority among minorities. scores, perhaps), tell him or her 
But we recognize that unless we that to have "lowered the stan­
enter decision-making positions dards" (which are recognized as 
and obtain better access to legal biased against certain groups), 
systems in this country, we will not would have been a disservice to his 
be able to accomplish these objec­or her group and the entire world. 
tives. We do not feel that waiting You will find that the greatest 
another 25 years for improvement disservice experienced by minori­
of the schools is the only path that ties and other economically disad­
should be available to us. vantaged people is not having the 
It is very difficult for me to ch~nce to compete equally. ''ignore the fact that these students You state that we should com­will have to read textbooks written pete equally. But do we in fact in English ...use mathematics...and have this opportunity? Many deal with the majority culture." students smile broadly, and pat You see Mr. Cavanaugh, I am one themselves on the back at the of ''these students.'' And day after tremendous accolades they have day I sit in lectures that are acquired purely on their own. And conducted in English, and I deal I congratulate them. For many with the majority culture, in their have achieved truly on their own. terms and in mine. But the fact But many got here through not so that English is the official language pure and academic measurements. of this country and that I must use Are any of these "equal" com­it daily, does not mean that the petitors alumni children? LSAT is without bias or an ade­Are any of these the sons and quate predictor of my capabilities daughters of generous benefac­to complete the first year of law tors? Or powerful legislators? Or school. I can only relate my members of the highly-respected personal experience to you. And in judiciary? Or members of the no way was my low score in the faculty? LSAT indicative of my capability to So let us be honest with our­successfully compete with others in selves. If we are in fact to have an the study of l:1w. equal non-discriminatory basis for 
You also challenge that all admission, then it must be equal. 
minorities will not go back to their As long as factors extraneous to 
communities to practice. That may intellectual capabilities such as 
be true. But it is much more likely wealth, religi1m, and familial status 
that I will serve Chicanos and can be taken into account, one 
practice in a Chicano community should not complain when ethnic 
than the typical law school gradu­and racial background are also 
ate. 
criteria examined. 


Benda cites 
byThnLew 
Staff Repol'tel' 
Dr. Ernst Benda, the president of the German Federal Constitu­tional Court, spoke about Human Rights under the German Federal Constitution, focusing his remarks upon the subject of abortion in West Germany to an audience of approximately 70 people last night in the C.C.E. auditorium. 
Despite the number of similar­ities between the German Court and the U.S. Supreme Court, each court has come to radically differ­ent conclusions regarding abortion. 
In the U.S. Jurisprudence, the Supreme Court has declined to specify exactly when human life begins and withholds altogether from the unborn child the rights enjoyed by all other citizens. In Roe vs. Wade, the Supreme Court struck down the state statutes forbidding abortion, permitting mothers to obtain abortions in the first trimester of their pregnancies. 
In 1974 the West German Bundestag. equivalent to the U.S. Congress, passed an abortion reform law. The Jaw effectively permitted mothers to obtain legal abortions from physicians in the first trimester. The next year the Constitutional Court declared the statute unconstitutional, based upon a pro-life provision in the Federal Constitution. 
The German Constitution speci­fically insures every person's right to Jive and protects the inviolability of the person. This is not derived from a construction of some article or clause, but is written directly into the document. 
Thus the 1974 law was over­turned and in 1976 the Bundestag passed a Jaw which reflects the Constitution's pro-life stand. The new law requires any woman seeking an abortion to first consult 
Staff I isted for 1978 DOME-
New Dome Editor Greg Young has named the staff for the 1978 yearbook. 
Takmg the newly-created posi­tion of associate editor will be Chuck Colbert, a junior majoring in government. He was events editor on the staff of the 1977 Dome. 
P.J. Kane, a junior art major, will be production manager. She is new to the staff. Don Trybus, a junior business major, will be business manager. He is also new to the staff. 
Tim Krause will be photography editor. He is a sophomore and served as co-sports editor this year. 
Mark Amenta will edit the student life section. He is a sophomore, majoring in speech and drama, and was art director for the '77 Dome. 
Mary Allare will be senior sec­tion editor. She is a junior science pre-professional major and worked on the events staff this year. 
Jean Murphy will be the editor of the events section. She is a junior in English, and was editor of the activities section this year. Bill Fuller will serve as sports editor. Fuller is a sophomore majoring in pyschology, and was student _life editor this year. Joyce Ravmkar and AI Dreyer will be co-editors of the organizations section. Both are freshmen and are new to the editorial board. 
[Photo by Paul Clevenger] 
abortion law 
a state abortion counseling clinic. At the clinic, the counselors try to persuade the mother to keep the child, recommending the various alternatives to abortion. They are required by the law to promote the pro-life position, something which could never be enforced under the laws in the U.S. 
An abortion may still be pro­cured though, if the woman's health should be endangered by the pregnancy, or if the child is going to be born defective. But mor.e importantly, the Court recog­nized the financial stake that physicians have in performing abortions. A woman seeking an abortion is not likely to be dis­suaded by her private physician if he stands to make money by performing the operation, the Court noted. . 
The German Court has recog­nized that at 14 days the fetus takes on human characteristics, and thus all the rights of German citizens guaranteed under the Constitution are accorded the unborn child. 
A&L cards Wed. 
Sophomores who wish to obtain class cards for Arts and Letters check-marked courses may do so beginning today and tomorrow at 8:30a.m. 
Only the following departments 
will be represented: Art, Econom­
ics, English, General Program, 
Modem Languages, Music, Phil­
osophy, Psychology, Speech and 
Drama and Theology. 
Students who want to obtain 
check marked class cards for 
freshman level courses should re­
port to the Freshman Year of 
Studies office. 
Oral course 
A new course in Oral English and 
the development of an educational 
media center will be introduced by 
the department of Communication 
Arts during the Summer Session 
beginning June 20 at Notre Dame. 
The new Oral English course, 
taught by Frederick Syburg of the 
Speech and Drama department, 
will include discussions and dem­
onstrations or "readers' theater," 
improvisation, oral paragraphs and 
themes, and related oral practices. 
Traditional courses, such as writ­
ing, design, photography, film, 
school publications, public rela­
tions, television, understanding the 
arts and theater, will be repeated 
during the session continuing 
through August 4. Some of the 
courses offered for college credit 
run six weeks, others two weeks, 
and some are evening courses. 
Thomas J. Stritch, professor of 
American Studies at Notre Dame 
and director of the program, said 
the goal of faculty members is to 
translate the growing interest in 
the news media into useful courses 
for students, teachers and young 
professionals in the field. 
Sit-in response 
[continued from page 1] of the issue ot human rights and concluded by !>tating, "It becomes intolerable for honest people at a Catholic Univesity to speak out against violations of human rights in far-off places if we are indiffer­ent to similar violations here where we live, study and pray." 

Tuesday, April 26, 1977 the observer 
5 

Voluntary SMC program 
Clinic improves writing 
Editor's note: 
This is the second of a four-part series on innovative educational programs at St. Mary's. Subse­quent articles will examine the Math Department's Personalized System of Instruction [PSI] pro­
gram and tandem courses between departments. 
by Jean Powley St. Mary's Editor 

St. Mary's Writing Oinic is now in its fifth semester of operation and business is booming. 
Since its creation in the spring of 1975 by a recent graduate, Mary Orr, the program has more than tripled its clientele and its staff bas grown to 14 tutors and a faculty advisor. 
Orr, a graduate student at Indi­ana University, noticed a serious lack of writing ability on the part of many students before the problem was widely publicized. She started the clinic to try to correct the situation. Her idea was to help each student individually with their specific writing problem. 
The stated purpose of the Wri­ting Qinic is threefold. It strives to "improve the writing of weak students (including foreign stu­dents) and to assist students seek­ing excellence in already compe­tent writing; to increase faculty interest in and knowledge of stu­dent writing problems; and to work in coordination with the Writing Proficiency program." 
Of special concern are foreign students who have gained little confirtence in handling problems with English. 
At present, attendance at the clinic is voluntary and open to all students. Students are either referred by their teachers or seek appointments on their own. Once an appointment has been made, students may choose to attend on a weekly basis to work on specific assignments, or to only go occa­sionally when they have special problems. 
The clinic worked with 56 stu­dents during the ten weeks of its existence in the spring of 1975. Last semester, however, it handled 169 students with writing difficul­ties. 
The program is now under the guidance of the Office of Academic Affairs, with advice from the English department. Linnea Vac­ca, assistant professor of English, is its faculty coordinator, and as such, is responsible for the selec­tion. training and supervision of !he program's student tutors. 
The tutorial staff of the clinic 
consists of 14 juniors and seniors, 
recommended as good writers and 
sympathetic human beings by 
members of the English depart­
ment. These tutors were trained in 
composition, grammar and the 
diagnosis and treatment of writing 
problems over the summer. Each 
tutor has the option of, working for a 
~-~-;~ 
GMAT • GRE • OCAT llll' • SAT 
ECFIG • FlEI IATI IEDICAI. BOARDS IIAn IIITIL BOARDS 
OaJr D•olld raf'lgt.' ot Dl'ogr•ms prov•des •" umbrrll• or r~\1 
•rtq •"o• ,..,., ttt., l!'n•DI•s us to o"*'' '"" bru P'*'D"'"''"" 
.Jr••IIO:t' nn mll'ffll!t •tt.cft courstt oS r~~~ten Q.,ror 28 y~a1s. 
111 e•P"·~"C" •"" Sc.tccess Smail CI-"HS \.'nlum•"'uus hnll'le study ~t'naft, Courw!l !hal ar~ c.nn•uo~r! 1 v Ut' dalrG P~tt"'•"~"' r:~ters ol)t"n d<~rs f'...en·~ A ~ 
f"f''lb ;~II .,~ar Camptt-lt> tape. tacot.l•l"S IN ,._,_ of ct.ss 1essons and tor uw ot supplf!!N"nla·~ mal,.u.l~ U..lkP. ups tor ""'5'~ ll!'ssons at ()ur cenl~r5 
SPRIMG,SUftKER 1 ~INTKB COKPACTS MOST CLASSES-I:! WEltS BEP ,EXAI'I 
COURSES SOON TO COI'IMEIICB; 
GBE-LSAT-GMAT-SAT 
2050 W. Devon ~~~ 
Chic.-p. IlL 60645 ...... 

(3121 764 5151 ==c:oomo 


fUYIIIII~IoL\t!IOIII 
SNOMISfS S111C( lUI 
Ceten ,. MIJOI' U S C1t!K 
and I"'"-. 
~ ....t:t·~ 

salary or for two credits in a student is given a 30-item editorial cross-listed English-education task in which she is asked to revise course. About half of the tutors faulty sentences. New drills are chose to be paid, and the other half given every week to test competen­to work for credit. cy in basic grammar. 
To insure effective communica-In general, faculty reaction has tion between tutors, a student been favorable. In fact, the coordinator handles all publicity, English department is considering internal problems and scheduling. the inclusion of a special certifica­Weekly staff meetings cover gene-tion for teaching writing in the ral problems and progress. tutors' transcripts. 
Tutors do not write students' Prospective tutors must submit a papers for them. Instead they help dossier, get h~r department head's with organization, grammar and recommendation and undergo per­the general mechanics of writing. sonal interviews with the clinic's 
Most students agree that the faculty advisor. 
_student-tutor system has been
quite effective. The tutors have encouraged many students to gain confidence in their ability to write and to become self-sufficient in recognizing and handling their own problems. 
The clinic's most recent innova­tion is the competency drill. The 

.11111111•••••••··-~ 
INDIANA MOTOR BUS TOURS 

We go where you say! Hoe more fun with us on aCHARTER BUS 
e MORE FUN FOR YOUR GROUP 
e ARRANGE YOUR DEPARTURE AND RETURN TO SUIT YOUR CONVENIENCE 
• 234-2196 j 
KEEP COOL WHILE YOU CRAM! 
Rent a mini-refrigerator ­
an ideal way to keep drin.ks 
& goodies on ice -right 
in your room! 2 spacious 
shelves; 2 bottle racks; 2 
freezer ice cube trays. Ad­
-~~1 .......... ..,,"" thermostat. 
Student Price: 

$24 per semester $40 per s~l year 
IYLOI IIIITAL 
~­
1427 N. IRONWOOD RD. PHONE: 277-2190 
,.,. ...., ' 
I

I Reserve your room refridgerator now for
I next fall. A $15.00 deposit will guarantee I
1 ~riC:, ~ivery, and unit availability in I
I Na: Ir.... 
Horne Address I
I Horne State I Student 10 . Rental Term oesirea: semester I School Year_
I I ..._______________.....I
\ . _..... 
~ --~ -~--------~­
the observer Tuesday, April 26, 1977 
First Ladies: Sad, sad, sad 
Holman Hamilton, history pro­fessor emeritus at the University of Kentucky, will present a lecture entitled "Sad, Sad, Sad First Ladies and Some Notable Excep­tions" tomorrow at St. Mary's. The lecture, partofthe American Scene Series, is scheduled for 7:30 p.m. in Carroll Hall, Madeleva Memor­ial Building. 
Hamilton received his A.B. de­gree in English from Williams College in Massachusetts and his Ph.D. in history from the Univer­sity or Kentucky. He holds honor­ary degrees from Franklin (Indian­
a) College, Lincoln Memorial U­niversity, and Indiana University. He is the author, co-author, or editor of several books, including ZlldJary Taylor: Soldier of the RepubUc, White Roue Images and Realities, and The DemocratJe EI­perleuee. 

by BUb Llmgheary An Tostal since his chairmanship, limousine, accompanied by Notre talkie earplugs, toy guns and Copy Eclltor but was unable to attend this year's Dame security, a Mercedes and a badges fought the crowd off. 
Gov't. dep't

events because of a commitment. Buick advance car. The limousine Mark McDougal, one of the The James E. Brogan Award for Previous winners of the Brogan drove into Stepan Center sur­spoofs organizers, stated the 
sells T -shirts 

the most original and outstanding Award include Grace Hall in 1974 rounded by Secret Service agents. residents of Fisher "did it because contribution to An Tostal was given for a fire-works display, Farrell's "Carter" then addressed the it was fun." 
Government department T -shirts to St. Mary's for their organization · Ice Cream Parlor in 1975 for their students present. 

will be sold outside the Art Gallery of the Circus held last Thursday. donation of ice cream to Recess Carter was impersonated by Bob today through Friday by Pi SigmaThe circus, which was originally 101, and the mobilization crew in Waddick, a Fisher Hall resident. Avant Garde Aplha.

to be held at St. Mary's, was 1976 for their contribution to the The Carter visit was a Fisher Hall The shirts will be sold from 9moved to Stepan Center because of organization of An Tostal. sponsored activity, which included Jackson MacLow a.m. to 12:15 p.m. and from 1 p.m. 
the rain and was free to ND-SMC The Brogan Alward, a plague about 40 Fisher Hall residents. 
to 4 p.m. tomorrow and Friday.

students. This is the first year St. with an elephant on it, was given at The students rented the limou­to recite They will also be sold from 10 a.m.Mary's has sponsored such a large The Irish Wake on Saturday. sine and gained the cooperation of 
to 12:30 p.m. and from 1 p.m. to 3event. Two other awards were also Notre Dame Security. They also Poet-composer Jackson MacLow, p.m. today and Thursday. 

The Brogan Award is an annual given at the Irish Wake. Tina went to Sorin Hall, the proposed one of the founders of the Ameri­Each shirt costs $3.50.
award that was first given in 1973 Sordyl, An Tostal Chairwoman, site ofthe Mr. Campus contest, two can Avant Garde, will conduct when Lyons Hall, then a male received an award for three years days before the event dressed as workshops in poetry and music dorm, entered an elephant as their of dedication to An Tostal. Keefe today and tomorrow. A perfor­DOME '76 & '77
Secret Service agents to survey the team for the tug-of-war contest. Montgomery, An Tostal chairman, hall for security. A rumor was also mance of his works is scheduled for The An Tostal committee thought received an award for his contribu-leaked to The Observer that Carter 4:30 p.m. tomorrow in the LaFor­available this was a novel idea and wanted to ! "tion as this year's chairman. would be in the area on Thursday. tune Student Center Ballroom. Copies of the 1976 and 1977 recognize that type of activity. An event not mentioned in The Secret Service men and MacLow has published several Domes will be available to those 
Brogan, the award's namesake yesterday's Observer article on An Carter had the Mr. Campus crowd of poems, undergraduates who failed to pick
books including Lightand a free-lance comedian in New Tostal was the visit of "President fooled on Thursday night. As the Poems and Stanzas for Iris Slezak. them up during distrubution earlier York, is considered one of the Jimmy Carter" to the Notre Dame limousine drove into Stepan Center He has also composed scores for this month. fathers of An Tostal. He is noted to campus on Thursday night just the audience jumped to its feet and Distribution hours will be from 1
the Living Theatre during thebe the person who made An Tostal before the Mr. Campus contest. .pressed towards the car, while 1950's and was one of the origi­p.m. to 5 p.m. tomorrow and 

the campus-wide event it is now. "President Carter" arrived at Secret Service agents in three­nators of the New York Avant Friday at the Dome office on tht Brogan has been at ND for every about 10:15 p.m. in a six-door 1977 piece suits, sunglasses, walkie-Garde Festival. top floor of LaFortune. 
Will pay for itself 
Hoosier installs solar heat 
But he said friends of his in the He said he was encouraged byNEW ALB-ANY, Ind. (AP) ­engineering department at the President Carter's energy propo­James R. Nolan says he's just an University of Louisville have told sals but felt more emphasis should 
BROADCASTING ?
optometrist who's seen the light. 
him the motors only use $7.75-$8 have been placed on solar energy. 
His fuel bills are down these days, worth of electricity a month. "Coal is great, hut solar energy so he talks about solar energy like a Nolan's building, a white stru­I think is the long-term answer.
missionary talks about salvation. 
ture with few windows, has a The main thing is getting the WSND-FM has many openings for"I'm not trained in electrical storage tank in the basement to materials. The same people whoengineering, but if I can swing it, store the sun-heated water. were saying it couldn't be done
it's not that complicated," he says. next year. Meeting tonight, 7:00 pm ,
The system has a rooftop water three years ago are going to"It's not science fiction any more." 
circulation system in which water seminars and enlightening them­
Nolan opened his two-story office 361 O'Shag, or catl 7342. 
building last year. cost in 12 collectors is heated by the selves in the field," Nolan said.
It him sun, then pumped into the base­
about $20,000 to install "We might have coal now, but
· solar ment tank. When heat is needed, solar is here, and it is hereheating equipment, but he figures the water gives up its warmth to air permanently. It won't run out."
he'll make up for the cost in about seven years. which is then blown through ducts ----------------------------------------,
and circulated through the build-
He says that last winter, the ing.
region's harshest in decades, his Nolan says his experience hasoffice was warm and comfortable-­convinced him that scientists andand that surprised some patients. 
politicians "to

"I've been around New Albany are trying make 
something complicated that is real27-28 years, and they just figured it ly simple."
was a fly in my bonnet when I got the idea," Nolan says. "I guess I'm just a solar energy freak, but if somebody says you 
SMC Law Society
can't do something and you are convinced it can be done, you want 
elects officers 
to do it. so I did," he explains. "During the winter, people would come in and feel the walls, 
for next year 
see that we didn't have overcoats on, and it was quite a topic," Nolan St. Mary's Law Society President said. "You ought to have heard Donna Berndt has announced the them in this ofice when we talked society's newly-elected officers for about the money we were saving." next year. 
His office building has a back-up Mary Pat Butler, a sophomore heating system fueled by natural English and history major from gas but it wasn't used much, even Chicago, lll., will be president. on the coldest days. Her v1ce president will be 
•'The local gas company was Maureen Carney, a sophomore reluctant to say at first, but then English and business inajor from they said we saved roughly SO Shaker Heights, Ohio. 
percent or more on our heating Sophomore Alice Lou, a business bills," Nolan said. "We're going to major from Macaw, will be the put it in our home next." society's treasurer. 
In December, he got a S68 gas Secretary will be Mary Beth bill for his .home and a $43 bill for Feduska, a freshman government his office. The office is bigger than 
majorfrom Pittsburgh, Pa. Another freshman government
his home by 900 square feet. 
major,MichelleSteil from Janesville, The solar heating system does Wisconsin, will be the society's:-equire some electricity to run publicity chairman. 
·hret: one-haiHlorse~wc:t: J,D.O!ors. 




Yesterday Stepan Center was once again filled with computer cards and Form 50's as impatient students completed their preregistration process. [Photo by Paul Clevenger] 
~-----~~------------~-~-­
-~~-~-­

Hang Up Your Hangups is an Ombudsman service which responds to questions received by the Ombuds­man relative to the interests of the ND community. Enlist the assistapce of affable and able troubleshooters by phoning 7638. If we can't help you, we'll find a sleuth who can. 
What is the Society for Creative Anachronism? Misty Lackey, the representative for the society, stated their unusual purpose: to recreate the Middle Ages "not as they were, but as they should have been." Chivalry, honor, virtue, sieges of the time are maintained within the 20th century by this conglomera­tion of misplaced kings, queens, knights, peasants, etc. The group was founded here in August 1975 and is affiliated with the National Council which originiated circa April 1966 in California. The society is currently co-sponsoring the Tolkien Lecture Series and welcomes any noble or virtuous souls who would feel more at home in a different time zone. You won't need a Time Machine to contact Misty at 232-6798. My roommate, the OearasU Campus King, is 
interested in the origin of the Ugly Man on Campus contest. Good for business resumes et al. A Notre Dame service fraternity, Alpha Phi Omega, has 
sponsored the UMOC contest upon recommendation of the National Organization. This organization's program is characterized by flexibility--coordinators of the Campus Blood Drive, social activities, future concession stands--in addition to the eccentric oppor­tunity for students to pledge money for their ugly honey. The UMOC contest originated four years ago with $200-$500 netted. Last year $1700 was collected; this year's total is estimated at $3000. This is one portion of the "services" offered by Alpha Phi Omega. Interested persons are. encouraged to call Dave Palmer (#1061) concerning membership in the fraternity. You don't have to look like Don Knotts to join. 
' What the devU is Angel Flight? And but another service organization based in the ND-SMC community for a number of years. Currently, Angel Flight is a reactivation of that former service club. Their projects (for cancer drives, volunteer help at nursing homes, Corvella House. etc.) are supple­mented by fund-raising activities: concession stands, parties, cc-sponsored films. Angel Flight is associated with Air Force ROTC. but membership is not limited to AFROTC cadets and personnel.· Mary Beth O'Grady (4-4556), the President-elect, notes that halos, wings. and dog-eared copies of The Littlest Angel are not mandatory for membership. 
V ocabphobiacs take heed: Zaftig is a word af Yiddish origin meaning: 
a) 
a Yom Kippur casserole 

b) 
foolishly derived pleasure 

c) 
juicy; succulent--having a full shapely figure, said of a woman 

d) 
excessive or abnormal nostalgia· 

e) 
a nose picker f)nickname of Farmer Brown's head sow 


':> S! JaA\su-e aql--aa.JS-e lf!A\ l(OlOd W!llq;)
.J... _ ................ --...._ -----........,........-.-...-J.. 
NOTICES 

Let John Alden Messages do it! Don't like a bad habit of someone you work with? Want to break off a committment? Want to phone your family that you're alive and well? Or tell your mother in law that you two are going on a vacation alone this year? 9-1 Mon. thru Sat. Proxy phone calls, $5.00 287-7566. 
Typing -neatly and accurately. 233-0166 after 5 or weekends. 
St. Ed's Hall presents: Sticks and Bones, April 29 and 30 and May 1 at Spm in Washington Hall. Tickets are 50 cents and available at the door or from a cast member. 
ENGINEERING OPENINGS: Major client has needs for all degrees. New graduates or experienced. All fee paid positions for immediate response. Send resume or call toll free from South Bend. Karl Swank Management Services 1554 W. Franklin St., Elkhart ln. 46514 or phone 674-5022. 
Water Safety Instructors current certification summer church camp positions. Equal opportunity em­ployer. Send resume attn: Pat. 333W. Colfax, South Bend Ind. 46601. 
NEED TYPING? Executary, ln. Professional Typing Service. 10 typists -various typestyles. Term Papers: 85 cents a page. Resumes: $2.00 a page. Call 232-0898. 
Niles Auction. 802 Fort St. 684-6954 or 684-4671. Auction every Friday at 7 :30. We buy and sell furniture, appliances, antiques, and misc. items daily. 12 :00 pm to 6 :00 pm. 
Accurate, fast typing. Mrs. Donoho 232-0746. Hours: Sam to Spm. 
Logan Volunteers: Spring Dance!! 
Wednesday, Arpil 27, 7:30-10:00 pm in the Logan cafeteria. Every­one Welcomed!! !Any questions call Art Koebel 8696. Jeanne Conboy 4347 (284). 
FOR RENT 

Kitchenelte furnished apartment (1 person) near campus, utilities fur­nished. Summer only. 272-6174. 
Apartment for Summer Rent. 2 bedrooms utilities paid. $140 a month. 287-6823. 
Rooms, $40 month. 233-1329. 
Rides. 
EXCELLENT HOUSES IN FINE NEIGHBORHOODS. Each ideal for 4-6 students. Cost adjusted to number of students. $225 to $300 plus utilities. Call Mr.Gatto 234­6688. 
For rent for next September fur­nished tour bedrrom house couple blocks from NOtre Dame. Phone 277-3604. 
Summer Rental furnished, four bedroom house. $100.00 a month. Phone 277-3604. 
4 bedrooms, furnished apartment within walking distance of campus. Call William Hill, 232-1724. Sum­mer occupancy only. 
TWO BEDROOM HOUSE TO RENT SUMMER AND OR SCHOOL YEAR 1012 EDDY STREET. CALL OO­DlES HARRIS AT 232-8563. 
Summer lease from June 1 to August 25. Near N.D. 4 bedroom and 5 bedroom furnished houses. 1 bearoom and 3 bedroom furnished apartments-call 234-2626. -----...---------­Hickory Village sublease for sum­mer, studio apartment $125 per 
month. Call 272-8006 late evenings. 
~...-.-..-_­
Tuesday, April 26, 1977 the observer 
7 


Bookstore Reflections 
·========================================================~l·============================:=============================================================:Cont'd.
[continued from page o Pangborn Hall. He will be assisted by Kim Kelly of St. Mary's. Both are student assistants in the University's Sports Information Department and possess the dedication needed to run this tournament ... Bill Delaney made thelongest shot of this year's tournament, a mid-court prayer over AWT's Mike Banks in a first round contest ... A few tourney records were established this year: Most rebounds in a game, 18 by Bill Hanzlik Of the Chumps ... Biggest margin of victory, Flying Magicians 21, Johnny W. & the 4 shots O... Most points by an individual vs. male competition, 16, Brian McVay in his team's 24-22 victory ... Dave Batton was the tourney's leading scorer with 62 baskets ... Luther Bradley had the best field goal percentage of anyone in the Elite Eight as he connected on an outstanding 40-65 field goal attempts ... John Dubenetzky is the first player in bookstore history to have three championship trophies ... He was a member of the 31 Club his sophomore ... He was a !oat addition to that team as, Frank Allocco separated his shoulder the day before the first game of the tourney ... The father of bookstore, Vince Meconi spent his entire yearly vacation at the tournament this week. He is responsible for the tourney's success today ... Many others were responsible for the tourney's success this year ... The so-called Czars of this year's classic were: Leo Latz, Kim Kelly, Mike Cooney, Jerri Plumb, Jim Bausano, Bill Murphy, Chip Scanlon and Tom Desmond. Special thanks must also go to Frank LaGrotta and Paul Stevenson who spent many hours publicizing the event for the Observer. 

Classified Ads 
Nice 3 bedroom house for rent during the summer. Close to Logan Center. $100 per month. 259-7488. 
Girls. Rooms for rent in nice house close to Logan Center for summer. $50 per month. 233-2613. 
Charming rustic house for rent. June 1, 1977 to Jan. 1, 1978. Fo-ur bedrooms, furnished, airconditioner piano, TV, fireplaces, ten minute drive north from N.D. Married or grad students, $150 monthly plus utilities. Call 272-5435 between 4:30 pm and 8:00 pm. 
LOST AND FOUND 

Lost: blue dress hat with dk. blue hat band. The type Bogart wore. It's my uncle's hat. It's important I get it back. I you find it or know where it's at, please call 3086. 
Found: a Cross pen -if yours, call 283-3510 to identify. 
Lost: beige cat with white paws and markings. Call 277-1306. 
Lost: gold digital men' watch over b-ball courts next to Stepan. Reward for return to Bob at phone 1779. 
Found: Watch between Grace and Library on Monday April 18. Call John at 6775. 
Lost: 1 pair of Bauer ice skates, in room 419 of the Administration Building. Call Tom at 8348 . Reward!!! 
Lost: Two keys on a silver rings at Saint Mary's or Notre Dame. If found call 4-4007. 
Lost: Cowboy hat at Law Talent Show, in law building Saturday. Info, call Michelle 4-4692. 
LOST: A GOLD CHARM BRACE­LET WITH 7 GOLD HEARTS EN­GRAVED WITH MY CHILDREN'S NAMES AND BIRTH DATES, AND ONE GOLD HEART WITH A DIA­MOND SET IN IT AND AN EN­GRAVING ON THE BACK IN MY HUSBAND'S OWN HAND WRITING. IF FOUND, OR HAVE ANY INFORMATION CONCERN­ING IT, PLEASE CALL COLLECT 914 834-7675. A LIBERAL RE­WARD OFFERED. OUt'DA N. BUNDSCHUH. . 
Lost: Red binder full of botany handouts. If found, please call Karen at 2110. 
Lost: yellow and blue reversible raincoat with hood. Lost Thursday night at Nickies. Please call 4184 
Lost: pair of eyeglasses (black wire) in a soft black leather case near Pangborn and Fisher. Reward offered. Call 3059. 
Lost: an I. D. type bracelet without nameplate. Sentimental value. Call for Dave 3339. 
-------------~­
Lost: gold 1976 Pl. Pleasant H.S. ring initial Yaike L. Reward, call 3857. 
Lost: pair silver, metal frame ;)lasses, Timex quartz watch, and ~' D class ring. Someone holding them from Sat. at mud pit. Rich 7495. 
WANTED 

a copy of last year's"DOME". Will pay$$$. 233-8855. 
2 people need ride to Southeast Florida after finals. Not much baggage. Tim 1868. 
Need ride to Syracuse (May 13) or after exams, No bags, will pay. ( arlie 1620. 
\A' mted: riders to Framington i'.,;ch. Leaving 4-29. Call Camille •129. 
·-------_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_­
FOR SALE 

72 Dodge Challenger, 318 VB aL O· mafic with console, P-S, AM rao1u, $1900.00 Call 272-3028 after 5:30. 
Rare fish for sale, very cheap. Call 1631. . 
Refridgerator ($35), reclining chair, dresser, rug, curtains. Joe Hughes, 1481. 
For Sale: coffee table 60x22x16. Good construction. Nice, S70. Also, 4 drawer dresser, $25. Call. Geoff at 1078 or come by 519 Flanner. 
PERSONALS 

Polly Purebread <somethings never change): After four unvelievably complicated and fun years, birth­days still come and go. Have a happy_21st and kick ass atthe Big H. 
Love, 72 

LOOKING FOR COMPETENT TY­PISTS FOR NEXT YEAR'S PRO­DUCTION STAFF. IF INTERES­TED, PLEASE DROP A NOTE OFF AT THE OBSERVER OFFICE OR GIVEMEACALLKAREN: 4-5448. 
THESE ARE PAID POSITIONS. 
Grab the Dodo before it gets away.... 
Alone Again? N.D. -S.M. C. Hotline 4-4311 open nights. 
Wanted: 3 girls need ride to Bloomington or Indianapolis April 
29. Will pay$$$. Call 4-5404. 
3ob R. 
You're too nice. I may have to send you more flowers-unless you have a better idea. Thanks. 
Pizzelle Lover 

SMC STUDENTS : Save yourself a trip to NO. Observer classifieds are now sold in SMC Observer Office Regina South Basement -MW F 
1:30 to 3:30 and TT. 1-3. 
To those "hand selected" few, we 
~ would like to express our deep appreciation and thanks for joining us Saturday night in celebrating the close of An Tostal. It was definately a party to remember. Sincerely Anne Giere, Betsy Masana Chris "Clown" Nazar, 3rd Annex, LeMans 
Tosh, You're just like all the others -all tease and no please. 
hurtin' 

F.A.S. The "omen" aboul graduation and after is present in your dreams. When it's a question of will, usually get what I want. 
Chocolate Marshmellow (T. B.): After two years, today is a pretty special day, isn't it?? 
Love, Mint Chip (B.) 

Heels-Patiently awaiting your RSVP Daisy 
ATTENTION BABY DERBY CON­TESTANTS: When the apple is ripe, it falls. The tree is getting tired. Stay tuned for further details. 
J. Lohn 

Hey 2 South Lewis: Many thanks for a surprise that will be long remembered and cherished. You may be one of the rowdiest but you're also one of the best! !I'll miss you all. 
JA 
....-...-.------~~~~,.. 


-
8 the observer Tuesday, April 26, 1977 , 
Irish golfers shooting for 
NCAA bid 
by Tom Desmond Toledo (778) and Ball State (781) to ' bested its total in last year's Spor18 Writer the Mid-American. Biv Wadden Purdue Invitational by a remark­led the Irish with a two-round total able 31 shots--an average of just 
The jury has come in with a of IS1. The sophomore carded over six strokes per man. not-guilty verdict for the youthful rounds of 7S and 76 to finish seven With their performance this past Notre Dame golf team. After over par for the day that saw the weekend the golfers have put starting the season with a third-· mercury drop to 36 degrees and themselves back into a position to place finish in the Indianapolis was drenched with constant rain receive a bid to the NCAA tourna­Intercollegiate two weeks ago the throughout the 36 holes. ment. The Big Ten and Mid­young Irish squad turned in a Wadden's lSI was good enough to American conference champions dismal 20th place finish at the place him sixth in the field of 90 each will receive automatic bids to Kepler Invitational last week. golfers representing 1S teams. the national tournament, leaving 
Such a performance would lead Freshman John Lundgren enjoyed two spots for remainder of the one to write off the rest of the a good tournament finishing at ISS schools in District IV. season as a time for a team while Dave Knee and Tim Saurs "The Big Ten runner-up usually comprised of three freshmen, two each carded a pair of 79's for a 1S8 gets one of the bids," notes sophomores and one junior to gain total. Eric Bauwens finished the O'Sullivan, "with the other up for needed experience. But, such a day with a 160 while Rich Knee grabs. That is why our perfor­verdict was overturned this week­tallied 164. mance this weekend was so out­end as the golfers enjoyed what On Saturday at Purdue, it was standing. We went against a Big Coach Noel O'Sullivan termed freshman Dave Knee that carried Ten-dominated field at Purdue and ""their finest weekend" in finishing the standard for the Irish. The the entire Mid-American Confer­second in the Purdue Invitational Wilmington, Delaware, native fired ence at Oxford." on Saturday and fourth in yester­a four over par 146 for the "We proved to ourselves and to Sophomore dubster Biv Wadden paced the Irish to a second-place d;ty's Mid-American Invitational. two-round event which was good the other coaches in the district finish in the Mid-American Invitational. 
"With our runner-up placing at enough to place him fourth in a that we can tee it up with the Purdue and fourth in the rain at the field of 84. conference teams and be competi­American as well as the top Norther's, the Irish will close out Mid-American, we bested 23 of the Team captain Rich Knee, a tive," the Irish !inkster coach independents from District IV the spring season with the Bronco 27 teams we faced this weekend," junior, and Saurs, a sophomore, continued. "I'd have to say that we making it a big yardstick in Invitational hosted by Western O'Sullivan pointed out. "We were posted I48's to finish in a tie for the have the confidence now to con­determining those two spots in the Michigan on May 8th and 9th. the top independent in both invita­tenth position in the tournament. tinue the play of this past weekend NCAA tournament. Following the tionals and have to be considered Wadden carded a 149 total includ­and make a serious challenge for an the number one independent in the ing an even-par 71 that matched NCAA bid." 
ND heads for Drake Relays
district going into this weekend's Dave Knee's opening 71 for the low The golf team will be back in Northern Intercollegiate." Irish round of the weekend. action this Sunday and Monday at 
by Paul Stevenson The 5000 meter run found SteveYesterday, on a day more fit for Freshman Bauwens, in his first Indiana for the Northern Intercol­Spor18 Editor Welsh attaining a 14:41 time, good ducks than golf, the Irish posted a action with the varsity, contributed legiate Invitational. The tourna­for a sixth palce finish. Freshman782 total for 36 holes to finish the finishing touches on the ment features the best teams from The Notre Dame tracksters par­Ahmad Kazimi also captured sixth behind host Miami of Ohio (766), tourney with a 157 as Notre Dame both the Big Ten and the Mid­ticipated in the Ohio State Invita­in the triple jump with a 45.8. tional this past weekend, and In the 1500 meter event, Dan returned to du lac after having Horgan finished with a time of 
logged some great individual per­3:57. In the mile, Strohman logged formances. The Irish, who have a 4:11, while in the half-mile, by Tom Powaada back. to take the second set in a match to Rob White and Rich been plagued with tnjuries Quinn notched a 1:54 time. Sports Writer tie-breaker 7-6. The Irish luck was Silverthorn of Wisconsin. The throughout their spring season, "The team turned in a pretty all bad however, as Horan lost the third team of Trueblood and Tom relied on the younger squad mem­good performance," Head Coach 
Irish netters drop two decisions 
Suffering two consecutive set­third set convincingly 6-2. Westphal saw defeat at the hands bers to lead them in the contest. Joe Piane commented. "We were backs, the Notre Dame tennis team 
In the number five position, of the Badgers' Ken Thomas and George Matteo captured third very satisfied with our showing."dropped to one match over .500 Mark Trueblood met with the same Scott Huguelet. The final tally in place in the pole vault with his "We've had a lot of injuries, and 
with a. record of 12-11. 
fate. After losing the first set 6-3. that match was 6-3, 6-4. height of fifteen feet-six inches. In because of this, a lot of our younger Disappointment occurred early 
to Steve Carter of Michigan State, the 120 high hurdles, Arnie Gaugh kids have been forced to run."
Stehlik again aided the Irish with 
for the Irish netters as Notre Dame 
Trueblood came back to easily take finished fourth for Notre Dame. The Irish track team did not
another victory this time in singles 
played host to the Spartans of 
the next set 6-2 to tie the match. The two-mile relay found soph­enter one senior in their competi­
as he defeated Barr in straight sets
Michgan State on Saturday. Losing 
Carter ended up the eventual omores Dave Gutschenritter and tion in Columbus. With the per­
6-3, 6-3.

all three of the doubles matches, 
winner however with a 6-4 third set Joe Strohman and freshman John formances turned in by these 
Notre Dame got a reprive as Randy In second singles, the scores of
victory. Quinn and Pete Bergen recording a young Irish, the outlook for the 
Stehlik put the Irish on the board in all three sets were identical as
The three set loss by Trueblood time of 7:43. This performance Notre Dame tracksters in improv­
the first singles competition. After Harris and Silverthorn battled for 
was the fourth of its kind for the gave the Irish a fifth place finish in ing.
his Silverthorn
shutting out Michigan State Irish netmen. The final score the win. came away the event. This weekend, the Irish will be 
opponent Tom Gudelsk.y in the first with more sixes as he beat Harris
however showed the Spartans with In the distance medley, which participating in the Drake Relays.
set. Stehlik went on to drop the by the score of 6-2. 2-6. 6-2.
an 8-1 advantage. was composed of Strohman, Berger Notre Dame will enter their four­second set by the score of 6-4. The On Sunday Wisconsin visited the In the number five position, and freshman Kurt Spieler and mile relay as well as their distance third set saw Stehlik again come up home of the Golden Dome and Mark Trueblood lost his second Kevin Kenny, the Notre Dame medley in the Des Moines com­on the winning side easily defeat­came away with a 7-2 victory, three set singles match in as many tracksters captured fourth. Berger petition.
ing Gudelsky 6-2 to end the match. 
Things started out well for the days this time to Wisconsin's Craig turned in a time of 1:54 in the In addition, the Irish will be The win was Stehlik's 12th of the 
Irish as Stehlik and Harris took the Jones. As in Harris' case True­half-mile, Spieler logged a 48:1 in travelling to Muncie, In. for the 
year but his first since sitting out first doubles match. a blood's match saw identical scores
Suffering the quarter, Kenny finished at 3:03 Ball State Relays. The balance of two matches last week with a leg service break in the initial set, the in all three sets with Jones coming in the three-quarter portion, and the squad which does not go to Des ailment. 
Notre Dame duo lost a tough 6-4 out the winner for the Badgers. Strohman concluded the medley Moines will participate in this The second and third singles decision to the Badger team of The final tally read 4-6, 6-4, 6-4. with a 4:14 time in the mile. event. 
slots saw the Irish netters go down 
Mike Barr and Craig Jones. Harris The loss dropped the Notre Tim Bourret::::::::::::::::::::::=:=:=:=::::;:;:;:::;::::=:::=:=:=::;:;::=:=:::=:::=:=:=:=::;:;::=::;:;:;:;:;:;::::::::::::::=·:=:=:=:
to defeat after three sets. In the and Stehlik put things together in Dame record to 12-11. The Irishnumber two slot. Carlton Harris the next two sets ::oming away with hope to get back on the winninglost the first set to Kevin McNulty identical 6-J. 6-3 wins for the final track as they travel to DePaul today of Michigan State by the score of 
margin of victory. before on Iowa on Bookstore Reflections
advancing to

b-4. The score of the third set was . 
Again the Irish had trouble Wednesday. On Friday the Irishagain the same as the previous two up as the
coming with victories

with Harris coming up with the netters will remain in Iowa for the -:-:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:==·:·:·:·:·:-:-:-:-:·:·:·:·:·:·:·::::::::==:===:::::::===::::::::::==:===:=:==::-:=:::=:=:=Parting Shots 
next two doubles teams lost tough Drake Relays. The next home
short end of another 6-4 decision. I have been associated with the Bookstore Basketball Tournament for
decisions. In the number two match for the Irish will be Mav 8 as
Third singles saw Marty Horan four years, serving as Commissioner the last two seasons. The popularity of 
position. Horan and Bob Koval they play host to Eastern Michigan. 
lose the first set 6-J before coming the classic has multiplied beyond any past predictions. Students cut class,
were on the losing end of a 7-5, 6-4 Starting time is 1:00 p.m. 
postpone tests and even skip varsity football practice to participate in the 
-....-.. •' 
iron-man affair. Some plan their Easter vacation around the tournament. 
~ \ \-~
l»lfflli ;! --'· 
Manv would not have returned for classes the Tuesday after Easter Break
r
. ..w;. 
had they had been scheduled for a Bookstore game that afternoon. 
The seriousness with which the contests were played this year disappointed me. On many occasions combatants and fans lost the true spirit of bookstore. I am partly responsible for this as I may have over publicized the tournament. I thought it would be beneficial to the tournament to make the local media aware of our unique classic. But, the 
I added coverage made the stakes higher and an attitude of "win at all costs"
-~'"'" 

-
J .. ­
' . developed in many of the participants. Player and crowd abuse of the referees was inexcusable. This was expecially apparent in the Ebony Magic 
'•
I 
vs. Average White Team contest last Saturday. At times the game had an
I 
....._. aura of a crusade rather than a friendly game of "pick-up" basketball . 
r 
,_. 

All I ask of future tournament directors is that they attempt to keep the ' classic in perspedive. Currently, Bookstore basketball is something that exemplifies the spirit and unity of the Notre Dame community. Everyone 
' 

from the student body to members of thei nternal auditing department participate.
<" 

-
Notre Dame is famous for its traditions and Bookstore Basketball is the dome· s newest. Other than football or basketball games on a varsity level it is the biggest athletic event of the year and the big' ·1ht of the spring. 
There were times when I wanted to throw in tht. lowe!. Many times
•. 

players called to file protests, complain about thedifficulty of their opposition of question as to why they weren't mentioned in the Observer for 
-
-"':: 

their seven point eight rebound performance the previous ·day. But,after the finals I overheard our amiable Hocky goalie, Lenny Moher, tell a com patriot '·now this is Notre Dame." That comment lifted my spirits, because 
....~ 
-
I felt I did something that contributed to the Notre Dar: -community, a group of people whom I owe so much.
--..... 

BOOKSTORE BANTER · . . . Irish netters look to Coach Tom Fallon for the weekend's strategy. [Photo by jim Hofman] Next year's commissioner will be Leo Latz, a ~phorr~'"t' to be restdmg lfl LCtL· -a&ed oa page 7] 








