
server 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's 
Wednesday, March 9, 1977

Vol. XI, No. 96 
In HPC meeting 
Casey discusses social space 
by Bob V arettone Staff Reporter 

The u~.: of social space in each dorm, and in L-ifortune, was the issue highlighted at last night's HPC meeting at St. Edward's hall. 
?, :tkc Casey, student body vice president, read a reply from Fr. Theodore Hesburgh, University president, to a report submitted by the SLC. This report noted the social space available in each dorm. 
It showed, for example, that Morrissey has had 300 sq. feet of social space for 334 residents. 
"I would like to thank the SLC for this good study which brings most of the pertinent facts to the fore," Hesburgh wrote. "There is no question but 
that  we  have  to  give  serious  attention  to  this  
problem."  
Casey  said  SLC  members  will  meet  with  

administration officials after break to come up with some concrete solutions. 
Casey also said student government representa­tives will meet with Bro. Just Paczeny, vice president of student affairs, today to discuss proposals for changing Lafortune. These proposals, Casey added, were based on suggestions made by students who responded to last month's student government questionnaire. 
In his student government report, Casey also reported that the Gassman administration is continuing its efforts to obtain campus-wide cable TV. Two weeks ago Hesburgh rejected this $500,000 project. Hesburgh said that primarily that cost was too great. 
Since then, according to Casey, student govern­ment has researched the possibility of obtaining a matching grant from somewhere outside the University. He said four different public sources have been discovered by the work of students together with James Frick, vice president of public relations, and Leo Corbaci, dean of administration. 
In another report Keefe Montgomery, An Tostal chairman, gave the HPC details of this year's An Tostal budget. Montgomery said he plans to spend $4,300 this year. He added that this would leave $330 unspent. 
Montgomery said this $330 could be used for the transportation costs of James Brogan from New York. Brogan, who started An Tostal ·five years ago, is traditionally invited to the festival. 
Montgomery, however, feared that if money were given to Brogan the An Tostal committee would not have enough money for emergency expenses. As a result, Montgomery said Brogan may not be invited this year. 
Of the $4,300 Montgomery plans to spend, the largest part will go to help pay for the circus St. Mary's has hired for An Tostal. The circus shows will cost St. Mary's $7,500, and Montgomery plans to contribute $1,750. Student admission to the circus, Montgomery at1ded, will be free. 
Other highlights of the HPC meeting included the report of Kathy Kane, HPC representative to the SLC. Kane commented on the recent SLV meetings concerning 'Human Sexuality". 
"The past three meetings have been the best we've had as far as discussion," Kane said. "It's up to the committees we've formed to see what's going to be done from here." 
Mary Charchut, St11dent Union coordinator, also announced the publication of the Social Commis­sion's "Guide to Florida". Charchut said this guide will be helpful to students who are planning to spend their break in Florida. The guide provides information on beaches, bars, restaurants and hotels. Charchut added th11t Student Union will distribute these booklets by tomorrow. 
J.P. Russell, HPC chairman, introduced three new hall presidents to the council last night; Jayne Rizzo of Lyons. Gary Fair of Zahm and Jim Daly of Howard. 
Fr. James Burtchaell, University provost, will be guest speaker at the next HPC meeting, scheduled for March 22. 
SMC Regents Treasurer 
P. Jordan Hamel dies 
St. Mary's Board of Regents Treasurer, P. Jordan Hamel, 57, c.ied Friday in his Chicago home. 
Services were held yesterday morning in Chicago. Burial took place in South Bend's Highland Cemetery yesterday afternoon. 
Hamel was born on June 1, 1919. 
He is survived by his wife, Marjorie; two sons, Michael A. and Thomas P.; and two daughters, Patricia M. and Barbara A., sopho­more at St. Mary's. 
Viet; president of the Continental Bank in Chicago, Hamel was a 1941 graduate of Notre Dame. He received a juris doctor degree from Notre Dame in 1942. 
He had been affiliated with St. Mary's since 1960 when he was appointed to the Lay Board of Trustees. In 1969, he was elected to the Board of Regents. 



Redlining solutions outlined 
by Jack Pizzolato Senior Staff Reporter 
Editor's Note: This is the last in a three-part series on the nationwide problem of "redlining" in mortgage loan procedures, with particular empha­sis on the practice in the South Bend area. The first article introduced the problem and some of the arguments advanced by each side--the lenders and their potential cUents. The second article dealt with the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act of 1975, discussing the effect it has had and some of the weaknesses of the law. This final article outlines some of the solutions that have been proposed or already instituted in other sections of the U.S. 
Redlining is a subtle art, and difficult, almost impossible to prove. It promp­ted one South Bend Savings and Loan (S & L) official to quip, "You can't find it, therefore it doesn't exist." 
But neighborhood citizen groups, while they have had little access to statistical information, have traditional­ly relied upon individual cases. "There are a lot of stories around," commented a local resident, "and it makes me suspicious." Anti-redlining groups in South Bend have observed that Harter Heights (upper northeast section) and the northwest side appear to be the most recent problem areas. 
Dr. Jaime Sena-Rivera, assistant professor of sociology and anthropology at Notre Dame, recently conducted, with ·the cooperation of the Holy Cross Church, a study of that northwest side 
parish.  In  conclusion,  Sena-Rivera  
wrote:  
"We feel,  though the data  do  not  

directly confirm this, that the most profound negative factor at work in creating parish problems lies in the property devaluation question. If lending agencies could be forced into allowing reasonable arrangements for home purchase throughout the parish, then the problems of absentee landlord­ism, undesirable renters, and crime and vandalism incidence would be very markedly reduced, and consequently many other stress-inducing factors." 
Sena-Rivera drew his conclusion from personal experience and from a series of unstructured interview with members 
Limited hours announced for campus facilities 

by Joe Bauer 
During spring break, many cam­pus facilities will be open for limited hours only. 
The North Dining Hall will serve its last meal at lunch this Friday. The South Dining Hall will close its doors after dinner that evening. Both will reopen for service at the evening meal. Sunday, March 20. 
The pay cafeteria in the South Dining Hall will be open Saturday, March 12 through Sunday, March 20 from 9 a.m. to 7 p.m. 
At St. Mary's, the last contract meal at the dining hall will be lunch this Saturday. The snack shop wiii be open daily 11:45 a.m. to 1 p.m. and 5:15 p.m. to 6 p.m. Regular meals in the dining hall will resume for dinner. Sunday, March 20. 
The Huddle will be open from 
7:30 a.m. to 7 p.m. this Friday, then will close Saturday and Sun­day. Monday through Friday during break it will operate from 8 a.m. to4p.m. Saturday, March 19, the Huddle will close, and Sunday, March 20, hours will be from 2 
p.m. to 12:30 a.m. 
At the Memorial Library, the first and second floors will be open 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. daily and the tower floors will be open 8 a.m. to 10, p.m. daily except Sunday. Sunday, March 13, the first and second floors will be closed, and the following Sunday they wiii be open 1 p.m. to 5 p.m. The tower floors will b( open 1 p.m. to 10 p.m. both Sundays. · 
The St. Mary's Library will close this Friday at 4:30p.m. and remain closed until Monday. Monday through Friday during spring break the hours wiJI be 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. The library will close again Satur­day and resume regular hours Sunday, March 20. 
The-Rockne Memorial will oper­ate from 1 I a.m. to 5:30 p.m. on Saturday and Sunday both week­ends of break. Monday through Frioay, hours will be 8 a.m. to 9 
p.m. 
The ACC will be open 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. daily. except Sunday. when the hours will be 1 p.m. to S 

p.m. 
The ACC will also be closed on Saturday, March 19. 


The LaFortune Student Center will only be open 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. during break. Regular hours will resume Sunay, March 20. 
living inside and outside the parish community. "There is no doubt whatsoever in my mind, that redlining exists in South Bend," he flatly stated. 
The professor outlined what he termed redlining's "snowball effect." When heighborhoods, he said, are denied mortgage or home improvement money, a cycle of premature deteriora­tion begins. People hesitate to move into a heighborhood and consequently, Sena-Rivera maintained, property val­ues drop. Houses fall into disrepair both because their owners cannot secure improvement loans and because unreasonable mortgage terms have drained any capital that might have been invested in the homes. 
Absentee landlords, the professor continued, then buy up parcels of land and there is an increase of renters. ''There is a correlation between renters as opposed to owners, and the crime rate," he said. "Criminals know," he contended, "that renters are an easier mark.'' 
Linking redlining to urban decay, Sena-Rivera also declared that it plays a role in increasing neighborhood tension and racial stress. "Lending institutions do have to be concerned to protect their investments," he said, "but when the whole system is geared toward maxi­mum profit, that excludes a sense of social responsibility where you see human beings as an investment.'' 
Improving housing, the professor emphasized, "is a rational investment which wiii pay off in the general economic health of the area." 
The victims 

Two years ago, James Langford, director of Notre Dame's University Press, attempted to purchase a home in the Harter Heights area. The bank refused to give hi-YJ the required loan and, he charges, underpassessed the house. "They further told me," Langford recalled, " 'If you take our advice you won't buy in that neighbor­hood because it h~>s undesirable people and houses and we predict its downfall within ten j'~ars.' ·' 
Langford got a loan at another bank without problems, but, he said, he knows other people who have encount­ered the same sort of thing. 
Another northeast side resident, who buys, renovates, then resells inner city homes for a living, said he cannot get a real estate loan in South Bend. "I can easily get a personal loan with my credit rating, but not a mortgage," he remarked. 
"I work exclusively in racially mixed areas." he said. "and I was shopping around for a lender." 
!Continued on page 6] 

r 
~~-------~ 
2 the observer Wednesday, March 9, 1977 
Lab theatre



---News Briefs------. 

to present
Califano to restructure HEW 
''Ravenswood''
WASHINGTON HEW Secretary Joseph Califano ordered a 
"fundamental restructuring" of his department today designed to 

The ND-SMC Lab Theatre will streamline operations, reduce errors, fraud and abuse in payments 
present "Ravenswood," a 1975 to citizens and save taxpayer's $1 billion in the next two years. 
comedy by Terence McNally, to­night and tomorrow night at 8 p.m. 
in Washington Hall. Directed by Steve Hudock, 
Gunman seeks to meet Carter 
WARRENSVILLE HEIGHTS OHIO Gunman Cory Moore holds a "Ravenswood" is the story of apoliceman hostage for a second day while pressing his demand to live-in country club that is atalk to President Jimmy Carter about what the 25-year-old man sees therapy center for couples with as oppression by whites. 
troubled marriages . Admission is free.
.......__On Campus Toda~}---1 
Gabriel to deliver
8:30am colloquium, led by prof. bernard d. weinryb, library, 
rare book room 


Irish art lecture 
11 am 3 pm' exhibition, five notre dame students exhibit work in Prof. A.L. Gabriel, director ofceramics, painting, sculpture, and silkscreen, isis the Folsom Ambrosiana Microfilmgallery, admission free and Photographic Collection, will deliver an illustrated lecture on.
12:15 pm mass, fr. griffin, Iafortune ballroom "Irish Art of Illumination and its Influence on Medieval Manuscript12:15 pm seminar, "biology of gonoccal surface," by dr. 
Illustration" Mar. 14 at the Univer­william sawyer, dept. of microbiology, indiana univ. 
sity of Toronto. 
medical center, sponsored by the microbiology His talk is one of a series planned dept., galvin aud. 
for "Irish Week," sponsored by the University's Celtic Arts Soci­
2 -4 pm tax assistance program, nd accounting students, ety, and will be accompanied byIafortune ballroom, free reproduction of several early Irish manuscripts from the Ambrosiana4:15 pm reilly lecture," structure and immunochemistry of Collection.
yeast cell wall mannoproteins," by dr. clinton e. 
The University of Toronto alsoballou, nieuwland science hall, room 123 recently announced Gabriel's ap­pointment as an honorary fellow of
5:15 pm mass, for all world hunger coalition tasters, walsh its Pontifical Institute of Medievalchapel Studies, where the expert in medi­eval education was a visiting6 pm interhall basketball, 111.en's interhall basketball 

professor in 1947-48, shortly aftertournament div. II, ace pit his arrival in North America from Hungary.
6:45 pm meeting, al-anon fellowship for family and friends of those with a drinking problem, library, room 400 · 
7 pm interhall basketball,. women's interhall basketball championship, lyon's rookies vs. lyon's bionic women, ace gym 2, free 
7 pm interhall basketball, men's interhall basketball tournament, div I, ace pit 
7 pm workshop, information workshop ·sponsored by student affairs, regina, room 141 
7:30 pm lecture, "women artists in the renaissance," by marilyn stokstad, univ. of kansas, sponsored by the humanistic studies, carroll hall 
7:30, 10 pm film, "singing in the rain," engineering aud, admission $1 
8 pm lenten liturgy, liturgy for reconciliat(on and affir­mation, sponsored by ad hoc group of women in theology, farley chapel 
8:15pm concert, nd wind quintet, sponsored by music dept., library aud. 
9-11 pm nazz event, joe misbach, leo hansen, cheryl peterman and matt kennely, nazz, free 
*The Observer Night Editor: John Calcutt Asst. Night Editor: Debbie Dahrling Editorial Layout: Drew Bauer Sports Layout: Fred Herbst Typists: Nancy Cueroni, Morey Blinder, Ann Giere, Mary Anne Corr Early Morning Typists: Mar­tha Fanning Day Editor: Chris Datzman Copy Reader: Katie Kerwin Photographer: Tony Chifari  
ThP ObsPrver is published Monday through F· nday and weekly during the summer spssion, except during thP exam and vacation pPriods The Observer is publ1shed by studPnts of thP University of NotrP Dame and St Mary's College Subscnptions may bP purchasPd for $20 pE>r yPar ($10 per semPster) from The Obser­ver, Box Q, Notre DamP, Indiana 46556 Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. The ObservPr is a member of thP Associated Press All reproduction rights arP reservPd  
"Maybe itwill goaway." The five most dangerous words in the English language. ~­American Cancer Society We want to cure cancer in your lifetime.  


1402 Dixieway North 3401 L WW South Bend (near airport) Sun-thurs 10:30-10:00 Fri & Sat 1 0:30-11 :00 
FAST DRIVE THRU SERVICE 
---~------~---­

11 5.ct JBuy 2 singlesI2Qft ~ 1 ff I Get One I ff 1
10 I .o I 
IFrosty• Free 1Chili • 
~ E'Pire• M"'h 31 Ll Expires March 31 I Expires March 311 

----*-----·----~-' .... l •• •,t •. • .._~~-~ •• fl. •:"~fl ........·:~ f'
•:' ' ' 'I>·~· ,• ..... ·~··.... 

I I • •,• 
Cinemai':ZZJ 
Singing! in the Rain 
Starring Gene Kelly Tues. & Wed. ' March 8 & 9 
I 

7:30 and 10:00 pm Engineering Auditorium. Admission $1 

Applications Wanted!!!!!! 
For the Positions of Student Union Director, Associate Dinctor, Comptroller, Ticket Office Manager, Campus Press Manager and all com· missioners for the coming year are available at the student govt. secretary's desk. 
all applications are due on or before Tuesday March 10, 1977 at 5pm None will be ~ccepted thereafter. All Interested perspns are urged to submit an application. ' 
For further Information call 7757. 
Put vourself 
on tbe map. 

That's another way of saying ... become a navigator in the Air Force. It's a responsible job with a challeng­ing future. 
Think you're interested? Why not sample the Air Force ways by enrolling in Air Force ROTC in college? 
There are scholarships available. 4-year, 3-year, or 2-year. There's also a monthly allowance of $100. And more important ...you'll get the feel of the Air Force and an indication of what's to come. 
Chart your course to the tutu re .... At the end is a rewarding, challenging job as'an Air Force navigator. And the checkpoints leading to that end are "proven benefits" and "educational opportunities." 
For more info contact: Capt . Davis at 283-6635 Pat It all together Ia Air Force ROTC. 
Acareer in taw­
withouttaw school. 
What can you do with only a bachelor's degree? 
Now there is a way to bridge the gap between an undergraduate education and a challenging, respon­sible career. The Lawyer's Assistant is able to do work traditionally done by lawyers. 
Three months. of intensive training can give you the skills-the courses are taught by lawyers. You choose one of the seven courses offered-choose the city in which you want to work. 
Since 1970, The Institute for Paralegal Training has placed more than 1600 graduates in law firms, banks, and corporations in over 75 cities. 
If you are a senior of high as.:ademic standing and are interested in a career as a Lawyer's Assistant. we'd like to meet you. 
Contact your placement office for an interview with our representative. 
We will visit your campus on 
TUESDAY, MARCH 29 
The Institute for Paralegal Training 
235 South 17t'l Str£:.:>1, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19103 (215) 732-6600 Operated by Para-Legal, Inc. 
AC-0035. 


Wednesday, March 9, 1977 the observer I I 
Personal growth objectives discussed by SLC 
I 

by Jake Morrissey Mike Casey, student body vice-of conflict at Notre Dame was social protect these people and their willing to help Notre Dame with president. felt that some concrete interaction. Barrett advocate..! rights." But at the same time, this problem. ''All we have to do is objective should be initiated by the permitting people to grow at their Barrett continues, the University ask," Lally said. 
Personal growth of the individual s~c to protect individual growth. own pace. should set up opportunities for Bro. Just Paczesny, vice-presi­was the main topic of discussion at pr. Donald N. Barrett, professor "There's a; certain percentage of informal social interaction. dent for student affairs, said he the Student Life Council (SLC) oflsociology, agreed that "a gener-students here who are career­Sister Jane Pitz, assistant direc­was reluctant to discuss the matter meeting yesterday afternoon in all policy would be useful." He oriented an~ are not particularly tor of Campus Ministry, felt that in the presence of a reporter. He 
Lewis Hall. w nt on to say that one of the areas interested in: dating. We have to the University should provide an would,, he said, help the SLC in this education that would create a area as much as he could. "structure where they (the stu­
Tom Soma, student oody vice­dents) can develop individually.'' 

president-elect, said he felt that James Roemer, dean of-stu­many good ideas had come from
Security p/~ns outlined for break 
dents, felt the inquiry into the area the meeting, but questioned the of personal growth by the SLC was viability of simply issuing a state­
by Diane Wilson sture just because the outside how their dorm will be run over worthwhile, but he questioned the ment. "I just don't want to see d ors will be locked 24 hours a day, break. The girls' dorsm will have ability of the SLC to really do these good ideas go to waste." ' h continued. Pears cautioned security won)en on duty as normal anything about it. I Casey ended the meeting byagainst letting anyone into the and regular i parietals will be en-Fr. Terrance Lally, assistant setting up a sub-committee to draft 
Arthur Pears, head of Notre 'dqrms if there is any question forced. : vice-president for student affairs, a proposal of objectives that the Dame security, outlined security a9out their identity or reason for All classroom buildings on cam­concurred with Roemer, adding, SLC hopes to reach in the area of measures for spring break, b~ing there. If a student has pus will be open 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. although, that there were many social and sexual interaction at 
suspicions about someone they see All secretaries and professors and
especially cautioning students to universities !!round the nation Notre Dame. 
in\ the dorm they should call required to Work during break.
close and lock all doors, windows and transoms before leaving their security immediately. When questioned ·about extra rooms. l.All dorms will be locked 24 security, Peifrs explained that all ho rs a day,'' stated Pears. No one outdoor dqors. usually ·only
Valuables, such as televisions 

wi I be allowed into the dorms checked at dight, will be checke4and stereos, should be left in the 
wi hout a key. It is up to each frequently 24 hours a day duringroom of a student staying on ividual hall rector to determine spring break; 
campus during break or placed in a room set off by the rector in each dorm, Pears advised. The rooms designated by rectors should not 
tudents may contiribute 
have regular lo~ks that can be opened with the master keys, 
to coeducation eva!luation
explained Pears. All valuables 
should be marked so they can be dividuals or organizations that 28. 1 identified if stolen. 
wi h to submit written statements The committee is presently pro-
Students planning to leave cars or meet with the Committee to cessing the results of three ques­on campus over break should park Ev luate Coeducation will have an tionna\res circulated recently them in lot D-2, regardless of the op ortunity to do so, Assistant among a broad and randomly­
!

decal. C.B. radios and long Prqvost St. John Miriam Jones chosen sample of Notre Dame antennas should be removed from anl· ounced yesterday. faculty and students and St. Mary's cars left in the lot during break. . students. • 
ones heads the commtttee, Pears ~lso advised that bicycles which was first convened in Octo-_ The co_mmitt_ee's r~search also liiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii•••••••liiiliii•liiiiilll••••••iiiiii&i 
should be put into storage in a be . 1976 and is scheduled to mcluded tntervtews wtth students, I secure place. sufumit its final report in April. faculty. administrators; rectors. 
Notre Dame Student Union and Paclllc Presentations present 
Students remaining on campus the evening of March 28 will be campus ministers. athletic per~on­over break are reminded to lock rderved for meetings with indivi-nel. Plact;ment. ~ouns~ltng and 
\l\GH'1' 
their doors whenever leaving their du~ls and representatives fron· Psych.ol~gtcal. Servtces, m~~mary. rooms. "Doors should be locked or~anizations. Jones said. A tim{ Secrutt) and Freshman Yeat. 
~~­

when the student goes to bed or aliptment can be scheduled b:-Outside institutions, including when he goes out of the room, even calling her office at 8961. Written St.Mary·'s College, Yale. Princeton 
~ 

if its only for a soda, ·t· stressed stqtements should be addressed tc and Marquette. were also consul­Pears. Students should not feel Japes and received prior to March ted. 
~ 
i 
CQ
I 

SMC Studef1t Affairs conducts evaluation 
I 

by Jean Powley co~ld receive more training and services will be reactivated this 
Senior Staff Reporter serve on committees in order to semester to consider concerns or b 'tter serve the students, according suggestions ~he college community to the paper. mav have.
St. Mary's Office of Student esident advisors's duties might Iinmediate.iy after spring break,Affairs is taking a second look at. 

al o be expanded to include career student affairs department direc­itself, trying to integrate its various nseling and other activities. tors will write a position paper,departments and define its goals. 
attempting td reconcile department
ice also suggests assigningAs a part of this overall program, 

goals with student affairs goals
co muter students to halls toa working paper for student affairs 

and. in turn. with the college's
personnel has been circulating Ie sen their alienation and to 
goals. Each department's objec­
pr vide them with opportunities 

IN CONCERT!
around the college community dur­
tives will be specified in this paper.
cu~rently offered only to residenting the past month, gathering 

w11n special guest to be announced
The position paper will then be
stu\dents.

student, faculty and staff input. 
presented to· President John M.
Although the paper is necessar­nother idea which may come 

Duggan who will probably appoint 
ily rather general it includes sever­un er consideration is the feasibil­
Friday March 25 • 8:00 p.m.
an ad hoc cqmmittee on student
al new ideas. Its author, Kathleen ity and value of a college-wide 
affairs to act as a sounding board 
Notre Dame A.C.C. • South Bend
Rice, dean of student affairs, states pe -advisory program which 
for suggestion's, according to Rice.
in it that she hopes to capitalize wo ld be centered in the counsel­
The standing committee on. stu­

TICkets: $6.50/$5.50 and on sale althe A.c.c. and N.D. student Union
upon the residential atmosphere of ing ~office and would have a core 
dent affairs will also be activated to 
and all A.C.C. ticket outlets.
St. Mary's by developing an inte­trai~ing program much like that grated philosophy of hall program­curr~n~ly offered to resident advi­ming which would encompass-the sorsl Tjhe peer advisors would have spiritual. intellectual and social trai¥ng in a specific area, such as areas of student life. lear~ing skills or career develop­
st. patrick's day party
This would be accomplished by me*.\ strengthening and articulating the Aj new approach to freshman hall directors' role by freeing their oriertation will also be examined. time from desk duty. so that they Finally, the committee on health
I . tonight at the senior bar 
I 

i happy hour 4-6 pm green beers 30c 
this is the last night we will be
ffid'as 

open before break! 
·stE{:,fALTY S~ORE 

st. patrick's party 8-2amCOMING SOON beer countdown 
I 
I 
14oz. beers 
TO THF. ONE HtJNllRED f:ENTF.H 

I 4Qc 8-10
I 

!Tiw: No. 1 ni'nlP 35c 10-11 
i '
adidas 
30·· 11-12
[in Athleti(' Shoes 



! 
~-----------~~ 
"*The Observer an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's 
The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters are the views of their authors. Co~umn space is available to all members of 'the community, and letters are encouraged to promote the free expression of varying opinions on c:ampus. 
Box QBusiness Manager Tom Fronczak Notre Dame
Advertising Manager Mike Miller Photo Editor Tony Chifari Ind. 46556 

EDITORIAL BOARD Thomas O'Neil Editor-in-Chief Dan Sanchez Managing Editor Chris Smith Asst. Managing Ed. 
Gregg Bangs Executive Editor Val Zurblis Executiv<> Editor Pat Hanifin Editorial Editor 
Tim O'Reiley Features Editor Bob Mader Exec. News Editor Maureen Flynn Campus Editor Marti Hogan St. Mary's Editor Kathy Mills News Editor Barb Breitenstein News Editor Don Reimer Copy Editor Martha L. Fanning Production Ed1tor Fred Herbst Sports Editor Tom Byrne Contributing Editor 
Wednesday, March 9, 1977 

Where do we stand? 
Yesterday, 1be Observer published an account of several disciplinary cases from 1971 and 1972, which were recently discovered in student government files. 'lbese cases are not of mere historical interest. Because University rules and regulations are vague and contain no set penalty provisions, students must rely on the few publicly lmown cases to discover what can really happen if they violate the rules and regulations. 
Violations of parietals, though extremely commmon, are usually not punished severely unless combined with violations of drinking and-or sexuality rules. The case reported yesterday, of a student who had his female cousin in his room after visiting hours, serves as a good example of this, being the only publicly lmown case or" parietals offense not related to drinking or sex. It also reflects what Dean Roemer said in an Observer article last semester, five years after this incident. Roemer said a student who violates only parietals "will probably get some kind of work assign­ment." In the 1972 case, the student was given a fine of $50 and was put on disciplinary probation. Although the two penalties vary somewhat, they at least show that the Administration does not classifY a one-time parietals offense as serious. 
What, however, is the University's attitude toward marijuana? No statement of Roemer's outlook exists. But the case referred to yesterday, of a student who the Administration believed smoked frequent· ly, implies that smoking is also regarded as a non-serious offense. The student's penalty, aside from the URiversity's re­commendation that he seek counseling, was four hours a week of manual labor. To our lmowledge, no student has ever been suspended or expelled in the past ten years for marijuana use alone. This does not mean that the University condones its use, only that it will probably not suspend or expel students who smoke it. This does not apply to students who sell marijuana or use or sell hard drugs. 

Students should not have to rely on accidentally discovered records, anony­mous comments from confidential sources and rumors to find out how the discipline system operates. Past cases, publicized or not, do not set precedents. Administrators are free to ignore them and decide future penalties arbitrarily, as exemplified by the parietals suspensions last semester. But elementary fairness demands a consis­tent and public policy. Students should be clearly informed of the rules and the ranges of possible penalties attached to the rules. 
The Administration claimes that rules and penalties must be left vague so that students can be dealt with mercifully. Aside from the sometimes questionable quality of this "mercy", ranges of penal­ties could be attached to each rule (as in state laws) to allow for individual varia­tions. Nor need clear rules necessarily mean harsh rules. 
Oddly, the evidence we now have implies that there are some sort of policy guidelines on penalties for different kinds of offenses and that these policies are more or less consistenly followed. Yet adminis­trators refuse to publicly announce them, insisting on playing hide-and-seek with their own procedures. 
The cases described yesterday, and others like them, tell us a few things about the situation we are in. We should not however, have to depend on such fragmen­tary information. It is time to lmow where we stand. 
Observer, 

Dave Bender and Tom Soma, 1 and never once delved into some of aganin concur, because I personal­the more popular political tactics.Bender ly feel that they'll need all the help Not a single person who worked they can get. with us was promised anything 
When J.P. first asked me to work more than a warm thank-you. 1 for him and John, it was made clear challenge our new SBP and SBVP from the start that we were running to make a similar statement. We a campaign based on integrJty and never sought a single vote or 
fought dirty 
Dear Editor: issues. Thinking it might be a discussed our platform with anyone refreshing change, I accepted, and outside our staff before the legallyWhile I am daily made aware of for three weeks we ran just that, a permissable date. Again I extend the progressively lower levels of campaign of integrity and issues. the challenge to Mr. Bender andjournalistic endeavor reached by We dealt strictly with the issues Mr. Soma.

the Observer, it is only when they 

reach extreme depths that I am irked enough to grab my pen in digust. Such has been th-:: case this past week. During the. last 21 days, it was my distinct honor and privilege to work for two men, J.P. Russell and John Geppert, in their quest for the  8fiSI[)£3, THIS COUto~ WtU PAY OFF 816.' WHO KNOIAIS, MAN-I MIGHT 86 RElATE[) 7D SOME VCRYIItAVY &THIOPIIW EMPfi'"RO~ /  ON Til&~ HAN/), '1tJIJ Mf6l.rT 8E RaiiTW 7lJ NOT A 101 AM/N. CHA"V' u 11.,1\ TY<.t, 1'1/"f/Y• IJIEU, MAY8E MOM'SSJI}e..  
student body presidency.  In the  
course of those 3 weeks, I worked  
with many fine people, dedicated  
individuals who knew in their hears  
and minds that they were backing  
the right ticket.  I read with great  
admiration J.P.'s personal thank­ 
you in Monday's Observer, and can  
only echo ·his sentiments. Inregard  
to his call for his supporters to help  

... . 

opinion ~!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
'You blew it, 
SMC' 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii..diane s m its 
In spite of a plea, "Give a Damn, 
SMC;" few gave a damn. In spite 
of a warning, "Don't Blow It, 
SMC;" you blew it, SMC. 

We did not get the necessary 
response to the parietals survey. Of 
1516 resident students, 540 res­
ponded to the survey. We needed 
51 percent for the survey to be 
statistically valid. Even though the 
student body was virtually hounded 
by editorials, resident advisors and 
individual letters; only 36 percent 
of the student body returned a 
survey. More parents filled out 
surveys than students did. They 
had to find an envelope, buy a 
stamp, and walk to the mail box. 
All you had to do was walk to your 
RA's room. 

The Parietals Committee's hands 
have been tied by this lack of 
response on the part of the student 
body. Everything indicates-the 
student government survey last 
spring, the open meeting in the 
fall, the amount of complaining on 
campus, the response to the sur­
veys that were turned in (almost 
unanimously in favor of extension 
of parietals)-that the student body 

is not satisfied with the present 
parietals system. The Parietals 
Committe was convinced that you 

wanted things changed, or at least 
studied. We needed concrete proof 
that this was so. The survey would 
have been that proof. What do we 
have as viable evidence of the 
student body's desires now-a 
feeling that you wanted parietals 
extended? It's not enough. 
What could have been more blatant than the statement, "Your opinion is essential to a full understanding of this issue"? That's what it said in the cover letter which accompanied the sur­vey. Your opinion was essential. It cannot be assumed that at a college the caliber of St. Mary's that 976 students couldn't read or compre­hend the meaning of "essential." Why then did 976 students not respond to the survey? 
It seems that there is a silver­platter syndrome at SMC: a large percentage of the student body expects-yes, expects-a core group of students, or administrators, or whomever, to determine what their desires are and to act upon those desires. They merely state those desires in a form of complaint commonly referred to as "bitch­ing." The concerned women on campus are then to expend all their enthusiasm, effort and energy to eradicate the gripe without expec­ting anything on the part of the student body-not even the time to place a check mark next to a few simple questions. 

SMC, you had better wake up. The core group of concerned and active women is tired, disillu­sioned, disappointed and angry. They are refusing to take silver platters in hand anymore. They are demanding that what the student body wants, it had damn will better be willing to work hard to attain. 
Parietals was the students' is­sue-no one else's. Your life is effected by parietals and you didn'teven care enough to state whether you were satisfied or dissatisfied. 
The question is where do we go from here? The Parietals Commit­tee has a lot of valuable research material. We would have been able to make a fairly sound case for extension of parietals if you had indicated that that was what you wanted. On the o~her had, if you had stated that you were content with the present parietals system, we would have been content to broadcast it to the world and let things stay as they are. 
As a committee, we have been made inpotent by the student body. We can close the book and recom­mend that, on the basis of the lack of response, we feel that pareitals should not be extended or we can make one final effort. We could try a petition. If over SO percent of the student body would sign a petition either in favor of, or opposed to extension of parietals; the commit­tee may be able to get back on their feet. But-is it worth our time? Is it worth yours? There are no more silver platters. If you want this, you work for it. · 
None of these things really bothered me until after the election though, because I overestimated the intelligence of 50.3 o/o of the Notre Dame student body. I thought J.P., with his and John's vast experience, would walk away with it. And I feel they would have, had it not been for the Observer. By "holding" Ed Van Tassel's column in "fairness" to Mr. Bend­er, the Observer deprived the voters of an experienced insight into the SLC issue. As a result many people may have actually voted for Dave Bender, thinking his proposal feasible. 
Finally, comes the Observer endorsement. While I fully respect the Observer's right to endorse a candidate, I cannot help but ques­tion the reasoning. You said that Dave Bender and Tom Soma had some good ideas and I agree. 

However, I fail to see where either has the experience necessary to turn ideas into realities. Dave Bender's only previous experience was a one year reign as president of the third smallest dorm on campus, and judging from the vote in Sorin, I wonder how good a job he did. Tom Soma, I realize though, has some valuable experience. I, for one, sleep better knowing that farmer Brown's pigs are well fed. 
In closing, I can only say they got exactly what they wanted, a clean campaign. I hope they are proud of themselves, for I know I am. As for myself though, I am not possessed of such a noble streak. I can't help but think that some­where out there, Leo Durocher is reading the results in Friday's Observer and laughing. 
Brian M. Clancy 


·. 
' ·~ • -. 1' •• 
~• •• ' " • !\-............. 
------~­

Wednesday, ~arch 9, 1977-the observer 5 
-------'-----~----'=-­

-
Gassman reveals student government survey 
by Ann Gales 
Results of a student center 

survey conducted by Student Gov­
ernment in early February were 
recently revealed by Mike Gass­
man, Student Body President. 
The survey was prepared by Gassman and a committee of five students including: Hal Munger, Joe Santello, Tom Demetrion, John Bender and Joan Hanna. This committee was formed to review the existing student center and consider possibilities for renova­tion. 
According to Munger, the com­mittee originally planned to submit a proposal recommending major changes in Washington Hall and the art building, as well as in LaFortune, but for financial rea­sons these plans were abandoned, and the committee limited itself to ideas for a renovation of La.­Fortune. 
"Structurally the LaFortune­building is okay,'' explained Mun­ger. "But we want to find ways of putting it to better use as a student center." 
In order to find out what facilities the students wanted in a student center, the committee decided to conduct a survey of the entire student body. The survey they prepared was presented and ex­plained to the · Hall Presidents Council at the second meeting of this semester. 
Copies of the survey were distri­buted to the hall presidents who circulated them in the individual halls. The survey was also made available to off-campus students during lunch periods in LaFortune. Approximately 65 to 70 percent of the student body completed and returned the forms. 
One of the questions on the survey asked: "How do you feel La Fortune is used with regards to publications, Student Government and student activities?" According to Gassman, "About 90 percent of those who responded thought it was well-used with regard to publications and Student Govern· ment, but not with regard to student activities." 
Results also indicated that a large majority of students use the LaFortune facilities only on a monthly or weekly basis, while very few use them on a daily basis. Those who said they visit LaFor­tune daily or almost daily were mostly off-campus students and students who work in publications, Student Government, or as Student Center employees. 
The major portion of the survey consisted of questions regarding what facilities students consider important to a student center. Students were asked to review a list of possilble facilities, compiled by the renovation committee, and indicate which they would like to see in a renovated student center. The list of suggestions included the following: laundry facilities, a bank machine, a florist shop, a newspaper stand and a tobacco shop. 

Laundry facilities in the student center were favored by 98 percent of those responding. A bank machine was also a popular sug­gestion, as 80 percent of those surveyed indicated they thought the student center should include this type of facility. 
In addition, :;2 percent said they would like to see a florist shop, while 43 percent thought the student center should have a newspaper stand, and 28 percent indicated interest in a tobacco shop. 
Students were also requested to write in additional suggestions for student center facilities. Among those most frequently mentioned were: a bowling alley, a pizza parlor, a grocery store and a liquor store or bar. Other popular suggestions included: change machines, a sit-down restaurant, an after-parietals coffee house, a fast food restaurant and a game room with foosball and pinball. 
Quite a number of students felt that the student center should have 24-hour facilities. 
As a follow-up to the survey, Gassman prepared a proposal for renovation, which he presented 
Hesburgh addresses freshmen 
by Marian Ulicny Senior Staff Reporter 

"There's no real life without learning what the world is about and what you can do to change it," Fr. Theodore Hesburgh, University president, told freshman honor students last night at a convocation in the Center for Continuing Edu­cation (CCE) Auditorium. 
Hesburgh outlined several objec­tives for the students' future personal development, stressing the importance of competence. "There's a difference between intelligence and competence,'' he stated. "You can really take pride in knowing all about what you're doing with competence. It goes across the board in all areas, no matter what you're preparing to do." 
According to Hesburgh, curiosity is necessary to keep one "really alive in the sense of growing." He expressed the hope that every day for the rest of his life he will learn something new. 
"Life and learning should not be dull," he commented. "For that reason, learning doesn't stop out­side the classroom." 
Noting the acceleration of tech­nological progress through time, Hesburgh remarked, "Who can tell what's going to happen in your future?" He added that today's students would need a keen com­prehension of the world into which they were moving. 
"It is my guess that there will be more change in your lifetime then in your ~~r~!~' or your grandpa:~ ents' lifetimes," he stated. 
Hesburgh concluded with a hope that students will recognize inner commitments to serve people other than themselves. ''Everybody could, but everybody won't," he remarked. "We need some people to do it, or we're in trouble." 
Hesburgh described his associa­tion with Dr. Tom Dooley who devoted his life to establishing hospitals in Southeast Asia. "He showed how terrific it is to grow up and to be somebody," he added. 

"You've-got a long road ahead, and only God knows what it will be like," Hesburgh stated. "Don't settle for anything less than you could be." . 
Emil T. Hofman, dean of fresh· man year studies, commended the students for showing "an indica­tion of things to come." 
"You can do much to make Notre Dame a better university," he stated, urging the students to take part in University activities and 
[Continued on page 7J 

SURE! OUR VAWES•ARE DIFFERENT!! 
most people value: we value: 
getting power giving service to others getting money giving love to God getting pleasure 
giving active concern to 
getting ahead 

the poor giving a good education to today' s youth And because of what we value our lives have become 
JOYFlJL! PEACEFUL! MEANINGFUL! Bow about your life? we have become Brothers, What do you value? members of a Roman Catholic Bow do you show it? Religious Community. We are 
THE CHRisTIAN BROTHERS Write and let me know what you think. If you find 
that your values are simllar to ours, maybe you should be with us. WHAT ARE YOU WAD'ING 
FOR? ""UM_ t:, 
Brother Lawrence Porretta FSC Director of Vocations 
1

J'>.~ 1840 S. Mayfair")1 Westchester, m. 60153. 

The Observer is looking for some fast moving people to work in ad sales and 
service next year 
Excellent sales experience and a healthy commission are offered 
stop by the Observer office (3rd floor Lafortune) 
to fill out an application 
-.. .....·..
~ 

this morning at a meeting with Bro. Just Paczesny, vice-president of student affairs, Thomas J. Mason, vice-president for business affairs. and Kieran Ryan, assistant vice-president for business affairs. 
The meeting was to be a preli­minary discussion on the possibility of renovation, keeping in mind finances and other obstacles. Gassman did not disclose the contents of the proposal presented at the meeting, but he said it included concrete suggestions based on the results of the survey. 
"Our goal is to have a statement on the part of the University that they will cooperate in a renovation by the end of the year, hopefully by the end of my term," said Gass­man. 
Although he mentioned that at least lO to 15 proposals have been rejected in thelast ten years, Gass­man was optimistic that his goal would be fulfilled because of the "definite, positive approach" of his proposal, and because of his "concrete ideas and evidence of student support." 
Gassman added, "The renova­tion, if approved, would be some­thing very important for the new administration to cNJtinue." 
1 2 3 4 5 6 Good thru April 5. 7 8 9 
r----------------,I 
g
~~ 
1 
I~ 
I~ .... •. IN 
L 
-·

Arby's Student ~~ Meal Ticket ~I 
For $1.25 -I 1 Reg. Roast Reef 1 Sm. French Fry, .. 1 Cole Slaw U:l 
_...______________ ~· 
11t fZ tt lt Ot 6l Blll 9l 
.I 

ongreat
sounds 

SOUNDS ON SALE: JETHRO TULL~sONGS FROM THE WOOD" ON CHRYSALIS, HENRY GROSS"SHOW 
ME TO THE STAGE'" ON LIFE SONG, AL STEWART 
"YEAR OF THE CAT" ON JANUS AND NATALIE 
COLE" UNPREDICTABLE" ON CAPITOL 
STEREOLPS SERIES698 
3.99 
Pri<'es ~ood thru 3/12/77 
Notre Dame Bookstore 
.. ..... -............ .. 

rr-----6---th_e_o_b_s_e_r_v_e_r----W-edne~d~y, Ma•~h 9, 1977 
I .w ~----~~~~~~~~~-----------I 
I 

1 
~ Part three: Rel;llining solutions outlined
r 
I [Continued from page I] loan funds. The fundS: effectively however, that if such a program them to banks or S&L's who agree directly to the challenge and neigh­
I 
distribute the risk of default among would encourage banks and S&L's to lend money in certain areas. The borhood groups are sitting back for 
"I went back to a place (a 

a number of depository institu-to invest in the inner city, then it approach demands a concerted the moment, collecting data, re-
savings instititution) where I was 

tions. : could be beneficial. 1 effort on the part of the community viewing cases, and plotting the
turned down before,'' he con­
tinued, "and I guess the guy in 
charge of the mortgage department 
got tired of me because he told me 
straight, 'Your properties are in 
areas where we used to redline,' he 
said, 'and though .Je can't do that 
anymore, we've changed our reg­
ulations in such a way that no 
properties in those areas would 
qualify.' " 
Other renovators, he stated, were dropping out of the business because they had come up against similar problems. "They said it to my face," he mused. "That's hard to believe.'' 
Ray Hernandez, a southeast section resident who was forced to refinance his car in order to get a home improvement loan,said there is a strong feeling in his neighbor­hood that it is difficult to get mortgage money.. 
Southold Restoration Inc., a group interested in preserving the historic W cost Washington and Park Ave. neighborhoods in South Bend, began a "revolving loan fund" according to its director, Ruth Price, for people who were having trouble getting loans from local banks and savings institutions. 
Two ·brothers who tried to get a mortgage on one of the historical sites were refused by most of the banks and S&L's in South Bend. "We went to one bank where our family banks," they said, "and though the man happened to know our parents and know they are very hard-working, responsible people and have substantial savings in the bank, it made absolutely no differ­ence." 
The brothers told the mortgage officer they would settle for a high interest rate and they requested that the bank take a look at another home in the area which they had previously restored. "I talked to the banker for about an hour and a half," one said, "and the whole time he just laughed and said, 'No, I won't make the loan to you at any interest rate.' " 
Many solutions have been pro­posed for the redlining problem, most with an emphasis on limiting the risk for lending institutions to make inner city loans. A program originated by one lender in Balti­more, which has been labeled "very successful," allows deposi­tors to stipulate the specific area or even block where they would like to see their money loaned. When a loan is made in that area, the depositor receives a card informing him. 
In some cities such as Atlanta and Denver, banks and S&L's have pooled money to form inner city 
Celebrate St. Pat's early at Fat Wally's 
25C Draft Beers 
all Thurs. Nite. 
fiRf\DIJf\THn Of\II. 
ClEAR UP YOUR FUTURE IN THE 2-YEAJUFROTC PROGRAM. 
What's up after college? 
That question is enough to 
get a lot of young people 
down. 
Air Force ROTC college
graduates have that worry, 
too. But their immediate fu· 
ture (and longer if they 
choose) is much more se· 
cure. As a commissioned of· 
ficer, there's a good job .... 
Travel. Graduate level edu· 
cation. Promotions. Finan· 
cial security. And really, lots 
more. 
If you have two academic 
years remaining, there's a 
great 2·year AFROTC pro· 
gram still available to you. 
Look into the details. We 
think you'll be pleasantly
surprised. And pleasantly 
rewarded. 
For more info contact: 
Capt. Davis at 283-6635 
Put it all together in Air force ROTC. 

"I think its a good /idea," said "It's fine," he concluded, "but I and generally has limited effects. next move. 
William Leefers at Tmyer Federal. really don't think it should be "But it's good for the soul," Individuals who think they have 
"Something must be done to save necessary here, in order to do some Damian said. "People feel like been victims of redlining should 
the inner city because there's nice ofthe basic work which needs to be they're participating and that they contact either their local neighbor­
housing and good hou ing in those done." have some control over their own hood association, the United Relig­
areas." Federal Housing Administratiqn destiny, especially with business ious Community at 282-2397, or Another safeguard gainst red-. (FHA) and Veterans Administr~-and banking, which one seems to Conrad Damian at 288-0455. Com­li"ing has been a so-c lied "court tion (VA) loans have often been have no control over." . plaints may be filed with the of appeals" for rej cted loans. suggested as a means to circum-Presently, the debate over mort-Federal Reserve Board by writing Lending institutions across the vent the redlining problem. The ~t. gage lending practices has sub-to the Board of Governors of the nation have establish d mortgage Joseph Mortgage Co. deals totally sided in South Bend. Lending Federal Reserve System, Washing­review boards which! allow loan with these types of low intere~t. institutions 
have not responded ton D.C., 20551. applicants a second ~earing. In federally insured loans which re Boston, such a board w s formed in quire no money down. According C cooperation with the ba;nks, the city to Meehan at St. Joseph Mortgage, ND-SM SEN lOR CLASS PRESENTS 
government, and loca~ civil rights the restrictions on these loans are • A TIME TO REMEMBER 
groups. : mild and as a rule, very few home!. /""l J 1 Federal coinsurance lis one more are rejected. Tom Meehan, head 
attempt to cut down thJ risk for city loan officer at the St. Joseph 
Senz·or l:'ormal '77 
lenders. The coinsurarlce program Mortgage Co., judges that 6o r 1 
designates certain transitional percent of the home buying public 
neighborhoods as "community re-are eligible for these programs. ! 
investment areas." In ~hese areas, Damian argues that the FHA 
Grand Ballroom the federal governmen will insure requires homeowners to bring 
80 percent of the lender, s mortgage property up to certain standard~. 
Conrad Hilton Hotel, Chicago , II 
money against default. j and this may cost a lot of money. ''] "I assume that bus~· esses take think it's good in principle," he 
risks," Conrad Damia , a spokes-added, "but it tends to be misused Friday , April 15 man for South Bend s ad hoc in declining neighborhoods." 
committee on redlining, said, "and "Greenlfning" is a tactic which Bids go on sale Tuesday March 22 
I'm concerned when buSinesses say some communities have employeQ 
they want no federal regulation but against lending institutions. The at Notre Dame & St. Mary's
they want federal guarantees term defines the practice of withL 
against taking risk.'' e granted, drawing deposits and transferrin,g 
I 

How liiring you 
Plain talk can cost somebody 

about PROFITS 
Over our company's 77-year history. 
$42,1~8 

Armco has averaged SC profit on each Whatever Aimerica's unemployment 
dollar of sales. We pay out part of our rate, 89,CXXl£KXXl ~)f us now hold jobs. 
earnings immediately in dividends to That won't ean much when you look 
Armco's 100,000 shareholders. So out for a job, y urself. You'll have tough 
of each nickel, we have perhaps Jc competitionl You're among 18.(XX).(XXJ 
left to invest in new jobs. more Ameritans looking for work over 
Building $55,600 jobs-3C at a the next ten years. That's how many 
time-is tough. At this rate, we must new jobs A erica must create. includ­
sell another $1,850,000 worth of ing yours. 
products and services to clear enough It's goin' to cost a lot of money. 
money for a single new job. That's Before you g t a dime of salary. who­
why better profits are important. They ever hires yo will have to buy tools. 
make more jobs. Even Government office space. actory equipment and 
FREE··Armco's 
jobs. The Government's money comes
plain talk on 
from taxes on all of us who work. do your job. h¢ average cost to com­
buildings-th things it takes to let you Next time some know-it-all sneers
how to get a job 
at "money-grubbing business:· ask him We don't m~an you can't be hired 
panies is now $4~. I~ for each job. 
what he'd do without it. He's sneering until your em !dyer finds exactly 
We've got a free bOoklet to help you 
at his own job chances, and yours. S42.16R You igpt walk into an existing 
get a job. Use it tq set yourself apart, 
above the crowd. We answer 50 key job. But don't count on it. Not with 
questions you'll need to know. Like why 18,(XXl,CXXl co 1p~titors. Some compa­
·you should bone up on companies you nies can hire ou\for less than S42,16K 
like. What to do alter the first inter­But tHhers-eaVl)' industry, for 
view. Hints to mak:e you a more aggres­instance-ne d m,uch more. At Armco. 
sive. attractive job: candidate. All our cost i<; no S515,h00 a job. 
prepared for Armco by a consulting That mo ey must co~1e frotn 
firm specializing in business recruiting. 
Armco wants your plain
whatever a ct mpahy has left ov~r after 
with help from the placement staff of expenses. In t ther:wor(b, from profits. 
a leading university. talk about profits and jobs A company n ight lxmow agains~ fu­
Send for your free copy of How to 
Does our message make sense'! We'd ture profits tt make you a job. But 
Get a Joh. Write Armco Steel Corpor­
like to know what you think. Your still. profits p· y for\iobs because that's 
ation, Educational! Relations Dept.. 
personal experiences. Facts to provethe only sour e companies have. 
General Offices, U-1. Middletown. 
or disprove our point. Drop us a line. If you as ed y~'ur friends how 
Ohio 45043. Our sljlpply is limited, so 
We'll send you back a more detailed much the ave age .S. company 'clears write now. 
report on profits and jobs. Our offer of in profits on ach d )liar of sales,! 
How to Get a Joh. above, tells you how chances are any of them would guess to write us. Let us hear from you. We've 25C or more. he tr~th is SC or le~s. 
all got a stake in more American jobs. 
That's not mu h to put to work tt\ 
c ,
make new job~. \ 
ARMCO
'I 

v 
Wednesday, March 9, 1977 the observer 
Carter plans NATO summit witt) overseas trip 
WASHINGTON [AP] --President Carter's first overseas trip, an­nounced yesterday for early May, is expected to be expanded into a NATO summit and a meeting on neutral ground with Syria's presi­dent. 
White House Press Secretary 
While in Europe, Carter is also expected to confer with President Hafez Assad of Syria. There has been speculation Carter and Assad will meet in Switzerland. 
The subject of Carter's trip is expected to be raised at Carter's news conference which is set for 10 problems facing both the develop­ed and the developing nations." 

In response to a question Powell said he understood ''there is not a limitation to strictly economic iss­ues." 
Talks aimed at preparing for the Londond meeting will be held here administrAtion's effort to promote peace in tlle Middle East. The first 
, phase occured last month when Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance visited th~ region. 
The second phase got under way Monday with the visit here of Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Ra­
1 met in Washington with the prin­cipal leaders of the Middle East except for Assad. 
Assad has seemed reluctant to 
• become closely identified with U.S. peace efforts and was said to prefer meeitng with Carter on neutral 
Jody Powell announced that Carter a.m. (EST) today. next weekend at the undersecret­bin. By early May Carter will have territory. would be in London on May 7-8 for The London Economic Summit, ary and vice ministerial level, economic discussions with the third in a series, will bring together Powell said. leaders of six other industrialized the leaders of Britian, France, Carter has expressed an interest 
Dr. Clinton Ballou to speak
nations at the official Downing West Germany, Italy, Canada, in holding early meetings with Street residence of Prime Minister Japan and the United States. leaders of the nations of the 
in Peter Reilly lectures 
James Callaghan. Similar summits were held in Western alliance. The NATO 
Powell indicated there was a recent years in Rambouilled, near foreign ministers' session, sche­Dr. Clinton E. Ballou, professor Sexual Agglutination and Morpho­good possibility Carter would re­Paris, and outside San Juan, duled to begin shortly after the of biochemistry of the University of genesis in Yeast'' yesterday. main in London to meet with Puerto Rico. economic conference, presumably California at Berkeley, will present A member of the National Aca­
Western allies at a scheduled The official announcement said could be expanded into a session of two more Peter C. Reilly .lectures in demy of Sciences, Ballou has session for foreign ministers of the the purpose "is to enable the heads of government. chemistry at Notre Dame this served on the editorial boards ol member countries of the North leaders of the world's main indus­A meeting with Assad would end week. Biochemistry and the Journal of Atlantic Treaty Organization. trialized nations to discuss in depth the second phase of the Carter Ballou's lectures, to be held in Biological Chemistry. He received Nieuwland Science Hall, room 123, the B.S. degree in chemistry from at 4:30p.m., will concern his recent Oregon State College in 1944 and
Freshmen classes to sponsor dance 
studies of'yeast cell wall glycopro­the Ph.D. in biochemistry from the teins. University of Wisconsin in 1950. 
The St. Mary's and Notre Dame held April 16 from 9 p.m. to 1 a.m. representatives at Notre Dame He will discuss "Structure and The Reilly lecture series honors freshmen classes will sponsor a in the ACC Concourse, will go on Between 300 and 350 tickets will be 
Immunochemistry of Yeast Cell the memory of the late Indianapolis square dance March 26 at 9 p.m. in sale March 26 at the square dance. sold. 
Wall Mannoproteins" tomorrow industrialist Peter C. Reilly and is Stepan Center. The dance, "Drop "Masquerade" will be the band St. Mary's freshman class is and "Biosynthesis of Yeast Manno­sponsored by the Departmept of 
on In," will be complete with a with "Pieces of April" as the planning to serve dinner on April 2 Chemistry. The lectures are free
·proteins" on Friday. Ballou lectur­caller who will give instructions in formal's theme song. Cost will be to the sophomores and their par­ed on "Biocht:.mical Studies on and open to the public. 
square dancing. The cost will be $6 per couple. Tickets may be ents during Sophomore Parents under a dollar. purchased after March 26 during Weekend. Sixty students will be Tickets for the co-sponsored dinner at St. Mary's Dining Hall needed and volunteers are asked to 
ND-SMC Freshmen formal , to be and through the freshman hall contact Pia Trigiani at 4812. 
Nazz features ensemble 
The Nazz Coffeehouse, in the the vocalist. Featured at viola and
Hofman commends select freshmen 
basement of LaFortune Student flute, respectively, will be Matt [Continued from page 5] the first semester dean's list. "The to arrive," he jokingly added. Center, will present tonight four Kennelly, a junior from Fort help their peers in learning. reason for the long delay was that A reception followed the convo-musicians performing their materi-Wayne, and Cheryl Peterman, a 
A total of 374 freshmen were we waited purposely for this class cation in the CCE dining area. a! for the first time to the public. senior from Holland, Michigan. placed on the dean's honor list for The ensemble will begin a two-
Much of the music, according to fall semester. They received ilour performance of original Hansen, is inspired by narratives,
Woodwl·nd concert ton,·ght
individual recognition as their . material "of mild classical influ­such as one fairly long piece in the names were announced by the Notre Uame's Woodwind Quin-the Mozart Piano Quintet. Other ence." Twelve songs will be second set, which is a story of freshmen advisors: Hofman, Paul tet will present a concert at 8:15 selections to be heard are works of performed, three of which ·are fantasy and romance in an asylum.
Jackson, Mark Kronholm, Dr. Ray-·p.m. -tonight in the auditorium Barthe, Francaix and Pierne. instrumental pieces. The music Another instrumental piece was
mond Schoen, Sr. Margaret ofMemoria!Library. Sponsored by ·and lyrics for all the songs were inspired from a segment of the 
Suerth, and Dr. Peter Grande, the Music Department, the pro-Members of the quintet are Eiko written by pianist Leo Hansen, a novel "Watership Down", by
assistant dean. gram is open to the public without Papach, flute; Melissa Bohl, oboe; senior from Fort Lauderdale, Richard Adams. 
According to Hofman, the convo-charge. Anthony Spano, clarinet; David Florida. cation was the first formal ceremo-William Cerny, chairman of the Basch, horn, and Gary Papach, Joe Missbach, also a senior, Admission to the Nazz is free and ny honoring freshmen for making department, will join the group for bassoon. from Oyster Bay, New York, will be the show begins at 9 p.m. 
---------------Need ride St. Louis for spring Lyon's B-ball teams -here we go
to \
I~-------------------------------------------,I
NOTICES Three bedroom house for rent Break. Janet 287-9487. again. At lease the championship
ClaSSI._(iJ•ed Ads
1 unfurnished. Fenced yard. Near ---------------will stay in the hall. Good luck to A course of action ...Air Force Memorial Hospital. Reasonable for wanted: ride to Louisville Friday both teams and have a good time at ROTC. If you've got two academic married student. Quiet neighbor-March 11. Call sue 7938 or Colleen the post game party!!
I years remaining in school (grad-hood. Call 232-9128. Found: pair of eyeglasses at --------------­
792 1. 
I 
1 
uate or undergraduate) look into ---------------Wisconsin Hockey Game, Friday ---------------Dear·Lifeguard AI, our AFROTC programs. It's one 4 bedrooms, living room, dining night. Call 8951. Dayton, anyone? My sister's pipes Let it be, don't be brokenhearted. way of planning for a good future. room, kitchen. Utilities paid. $100 ---------------have frozen and 1have to bring her There will be an answer. I am 
1 

Get all the details today. Call per month. Call Oscar 233-1850. Lost: At Library Senior Men's matches!! Can leave Friday after-here. 
283-6635. ---------------Night, one blue winter coat, please noon, March 11 _ Call Maureen yours, 
1I 

1 
-----------~---Two bedroom house to rent. call Dennis 289-6011. 6825 or 1715. B. B. I Neat, accurate typing of term Summer and or school year. 1012 --------------------------------------------­papers, manuscripts. Call 287--Eddy Street. ' $120 mo. plus Lost: blue down jacket, call Steve Wanted: 2 housemates for NO apt. ROTC, 
5162. utilities. Call Oddies Harris at 8771-1 immediately, the other starting Happy 21st birthday! The older 
I

---------------232-8563. ---------------March 11. Call Dave or Steff, you are, the better you get!
I Free lectures on The Transcen-----------------WANTED _ _ love always, 
I 
288 4113 dental Meditation Program every S S J b P t t· ---------------M.G. 
1

Wednesday. 233-8040. LOST AND FOUND uper ummer 0 • ar-1me Help us get to the beach! !2 girls --------------­
I 
---------------lifeguard needed to work with three need a ride to Ft. Lauderdale tor ALL ND STUDENTS IN FT. Accurate, fast typing. Mrs Donoho Lost: grey sweatshirt and a Levi female lifeguards at Country Club break. Call 7401 or 3725. LAUDERDALE: PARTY AT BIG 
1 

232-0746. Hours: Bam to Bpm. jacket at Sr. Men's night Monday. in Memphis, Tenn. Must be a male ---------------DADDY'S ON COMMERCIAL ON---------------If you picked it up by mistake at least 6 feet tall, a good swimmer Does anyone have some rope (as, in S. PAT'S DAY. REMEMBER, NO 1 
9 51

I ~~~~ ~o~~~~e ~~~~-B;;~_ 51 2 ~ile ~~~~~~~~8~~~_:_____ ~~g3 r~~~~~~b~O. ~~~ ~ 0° t~~;~ climbing) that 1 could borrow over GRUBS... I 
I 
Hall for interview. break. Will ren-t if you are stingy. --------------­
---------------Found: woman's watch outside ---------------Call Mark 8540 desperate. Dear Sandy,
Will teach flute in your spare time. Moreau Hall, SMC. Call 4-4231. ---------------Nothing but good times and lots of Ca11Beth8112. ---------------Help!! need ride in Cincinnati RidersneededtoChicago. Leaving Mr.SuninFiorida. Lovethattim! 1II ---------------Lost: Brown plastic rimmed glas-direction (preferably Oxford) 31 Thurs. Tim 1868. good. luck, Need Typing? Executary Inc. ses, somewhere on campus last .south and 1-70 East. Mike 8692. ---------------Tom 
Professional typing service. 85 ~~~~~_:__~~~~~~~~~ -;-NEEDARJDETOTHE-PITTS Help wanted: full and part time, --------------­1 I cents a page. 232-0898 · retail experience preferred. Apply John Boy Ferrick-1 
---------------Lost: Blue goose down coat from (PITTSBURGH THAT ..IS) FOR in person. Stripe Three Adidas hey s'chweeter-
I 

MORRISSEY LOAN FUND $20 to Nickies last Friday night. If you BREAK. CALL PAT 1639· Specialty store. 100 Center, Mish-hermdrenth is alive, well and living $150. 1 day wait, 1 percent happen to have it please call Kevin ---------------awaka. in Brundage, USA. Try to top this II interest. Due in 30 days. 1631. Wanted: desperatly need a ride to ---------------toots-LaFortune Basement, M-F 11:15 to ---------------the Conn. area for break. Cal' Tim POB 
• 12:15. Lost: key ring with 3 keys. Room at 1025. FOR SALE --------------­
1 ---------------1
1024. Call Ray 6842. ---------------Lyons Rookies-The semi final was MAY GRADS Last Day for a ---------------Female roommate, $SO plus util. Stereo tape recorder Revox Mark a scare, but a win is a wir'L Let's Morrissey Loan is Fri. March 11-Lost: lady's god watch, could be Pam-6261 after 5. 288-7468-IV $275.00 _ A R Turntable with get the machine rolling again and 
1I

Last application date is March 10. anywhere. Reward, call 3096. ---------------ShureV15. $95.00. Dynaco FM _ 3 come out number 1 Get psyched
I ------------------------------Need ride to Omaha for Spring $75 00 t d -11 Typists needed to type results of Lost: at ND-Lasalle game, beige break. Please call Jim at 3345 or 'c · °run an gun again·· Bl'gger
11 288 1681

I Nat-•onal survey on to computer sweater-coat with brown and gray Colin at 8689. a -· P. s. Shieldsy says "Hi" from I data cards. Hourly pay. Call Mike stripe around mid-section. Please ---------------PERSONALS Florida. at 288-0088 after 6pm. return, call 288-7587. Ride needed to Fort Lauderdale for --------------­
I

I ------------------------------break. Monica 7870. To all the racey people at Rm. 105 Donald-
The Contest Place Training Stables Lost: a large sum of money ---------------Abbey Sat. night, the pictures have 1 can relate to NO's victory Sat.I 342 Ironwood Drive, Niles Mich., is somewhere between the Ad. bldg. Need 2 o'r 3 rides to downstate NY already been sent to your parents. except in larger numbers. s-45_ _ 
I 
145 
1

now accepting applications for and Farley on Friday. The money area. Share usual. Coleen,7591, ---------------will be thinking of you in Chi-town 
I 
year-round boarding. Indoor arena is needed for break. Large reward Bridget, 7628 or Steve, 3213. Celebrate St. Patrick's Day early. over break. heated box stalls, grooming, exer-for anyone finding it. call sue ---------------25cent beer all night, Thur. March CBK 
1 

cise, and -Gain Weight or Thoro-6746. Wanted: pictures of Monks at USF 10. ---------------I 
fBiood f$eed supp$1ement all avpailable ---------------~~':.:_~~~~~g~~~~----ToSta;-C-;thyH~~-:-hc;~-;-go-;;-d Keyster Enrigat
I 
9000 125 00 1
rom . -. . ease, Lost: SR50A calculator in engine-I love you!!!! I 
appointment only. 683-4467. ering audit. reward, call Frank Wanted: ride to Ft. Lauderdale. break, see and call you when you RAA---------------1486. Please help leave Wed. Call Tara get back. do you like to Sing? I do. --------------­
I 4-4693 or 4-5463
There will be no mass and dinner at -------------------------------Donna, 201 BP-Bulla Shed this Friday or next. Lost: green turquoise liquid silver Rid"e-rs-wa~t;;'d_t_o -Co-lo;;-~--Le~-~~~~~:~ant to get serious. Let's meet in Belleville. we 1
I Next gathering: March 25. necklace. If found, please call Italians should Cling together.
---------------4-5337. ing Friday, March 11. Call Cindy Love, 1 
---------------287-1425 Mary or Kate. ---------------SylvesterStallone I
I 
I 
FOR RENT Lost: silver medal and chain with ---------------Feeling depressed? ND-JSMC -------------'---­Leo zodiac sign between ACC and Need ride to Conn. area (New Hotline 4-4311 open nights. Mary,1 All the comforts of Home. summer Grace Monday. Please return if England, NYC or NJ) Thurs. or ---------------Sorry about the flowers but I'm rental. Furnished, 4 bedrooms, 2 found. Holds great sentimental Friday. Call Gil 8394. Desperately need ride to anywhere _saving up for Florida. Happy 
1 

ba1hs. Washer, dryer, nice large value. Gary 6871. ---------------in Florida tor just l. Will pay well. belated birthday. 
yard. All utilities included. Near ---------------Riders needed to Daytona Thur. Call Rosie 1267. Ray 
1

Jeff.-Eddy. $200. 234-1972. Lost: black key case. if found, afternoon Call Chris at 6864. ---------------Look out washington, Missouri!! II ---------------7836. ----------------Ft. Liquordale Party Monday nite, Pete will paint the town red on Furnished 5 bedroom house, walk ---------------Urgent: 2 girls need ride to Ft. March 14th at the Riptide Room 11. Friday. 
to campus, renting to students-this Will the person who took the green Lauderdale Call 4168 SMC. (2 blocks from the Escape) Big Happy Birthday, Boss!! 
faiL Call 259-7488 after 5. jacket from the gyn at the Rock ---------------Money Murf, the Bush, GG, Jay--Love, ---------------between 2 and 4 pm Sunday 3 Girls need ride to Wash. D.C. for ball, Chad, and Mike and Rourke South Dining Hall Employees. I I Renting rooms this summer to PLEASE return the bridge that was break. Will split up, share ex-the Valentines. --------_ ______ _ I students. Walk to campus. 2 in the pocket to the Lost and Found penses. Call Debbie 7906, Jeannie ---------------To my Co-hort in. ····ne. from one 
I I 
I 

houses, one female. the. other Office in the Ad building, the 7918, =lien 7874. Don't forget! NO St. Patrick's Day boss to another. -..:mv Birthday, maiP.. $55. call 233-2613 or Observer office or call 7928. No ----------------Party at Brother Jim's in sunny Pete!! \ 159 7488 after 5.. questions asked. · · ~~_:a~~~~~~~a~~~:_-love, I 
~~:...

~---------------------------1--------------­
) . ':)I.,,,. 
the observer Wednesday, March 9, 1977
8 

Bengal Bouts' champions crowned 
by Ray O'Brien Sports Writer You will never mistake these fights for the Golden Gloves or the Olympics but they are never any less entertaining. The Bengal Bouts wrapped up its 46th consec­utive year under the direction of Dominic J. "Nappy" Napolitano last night at the ACC. This year's Bengal Bouts offered the seasonal boxing fan a mixture of every conceivable style. While the bouts were missing the heavy­weight gridders of last year's extravaganza, the action was no  Diamond finished the stronger of the two as he sent his opponent to the canvas at the end of the final round but Mullins was awarded the split decision. Anthony Ricci and Walt Rogers staged the quickest fight of the night as Ricci slipped in an awesome right cross to the head of Rogers at the 1:06 mark of the first stanza. Rogers recovered three minutes later and left to the ovation of a crowd he will not likely remember. Brian Kilb, a freshman from Flanner, and returning champion Jim Quinn posted unanimous deci­ his third Bengal Bout title. In one of the few uneventful fights on the agenda, Dave Bass­ette bested Terry Rogers for the 167 pound crown. In a battle of South Bend natives Kevin Smith posted an unanimous decision over Pete DeCelles. A bloodied Buzz Reynolds out­slugged Bob Derdak to take the 172 pound weightclass. Reynolds was awarded a split decision as he scored often against opponent al­though Derdak's blows took their toll. With boxers like "Nitro Nake" Naquin and "Thunder" Thornton  head of Thornton. Thornton boun­ced back in the second round with a right cross of his own that left "Nitro Nake" glassy eyed as the bell sounded. In the last round Naquin unleashed two rights to the head of Thornton forcing him to take the standing eight count twice giving Naquin his second Bengal title. Shane Carew and John Herman­ek clinched the 187 and 195 lb. crowns via knockouts. Carew did not waste much time in knocking out freshman Tomk O'Keefe as two consecutive rights ended the fight  the most exciting Bengal boxers of the future. In the premier event of the night John Vellutate and Dave Bossy staged one of the most thrilling bouts in the three day Bengal Bout affair. Vellutato took control of the fight in the first two rounds and looked will on his way to a KO win when Bossey slipped in a despera­tion left uppercut that almost turned the lights out on the Flanner junior. With both boxers semi­conscious these two giants stood nose to nose taking each others  
less enthralling as the lower weightclasses produced some of the best fought battles in years.  sions to take the 147 and 152 lb weight division crowns. Kilb and Dan Lackner took turns almost  pitted against each other, everyone knew that the ring would be shaking from the blows of these  at 1:24 of the first roun Hermanek displayed the hardest punch of the tournament in posting a TKO over  best punches to the delight of the crowd. The judges awarded Vell­utato the split decision in a  
The night started off slow in the 125 lb. division but that was hardly  knocking each other out in their opening round which proved to be  two sluggers. Naquin scored first with his infamous right cross to the  Kenny Harris. As a freshman, Hermanek promises to be one of  befitting end to the famous Bengal ;Bouts extravaganza.  
I  •  a sign of what was to come. Terry Broderick opened the bouts with a unanimous decision over Doug Borgatti as the senior from Pitts­ the most spirited round of the evening. Kilb dominated the fight except for the last round when "Spindle legs" Lackner connected  ND icers ready for playoffs  
burgh used his reach and a left jab with a wild left roundabout that to carry him to the unanimous almost cost Kilb the fight. Quinn decision. on the other hand had no trouble For the first time in years, the as he showed the experience of 6250 vocal spectators on hand several Bengal Bouts by easily agreed with a majority of the handling sophomore Mike Murphy. referees' decisions. The one bout in The classic battle of the night the finals that drew a strong came in the 187 lb division as two reaction from these vociferous box­Boxing club officers and returning ing experts was a close tussle champions faced off. This crowd between Mike ''Moon" Mulliln pleaser pitted the stylish Phil and Brian "Sparkle" Diamond. Harbert against the iron fisted Joe Diamond relying on the left jab that Cooler. Harbert used his superior brought him to the finals scored reach and a quick left jab to score first with a combination to Mullin's early and often against Cooler. The head. Mullin came right back with hard punching junior from South an equally effective right cross that Bend couldn't find the knockout drew the first drops of blood during punch to send Harbert to the the night from Diamond's nose. showers as Harbert was awarded Irish nine to open season by Tim Bourret abroad. Mike Bobinski, a sopho­Sports Writer more from Yaphank, New York should be a third starter in the The Notre Dame baseball team rotation. Bullpen strength will be opens its spring campaign next provided by Pete Zabroske, Joe week with 12 contests in 7 days. Karpowicz, Tim Handrich and The Irish will travel to Cleveland, Mike Carney. Bob Hughes should Mississippi, Murray, Kentucky and see action either as a starter or Memphis, Tennessee to face Delta releiver if he remedies his injury State, University of Tenn at Mar­problems. tin, Memphis State, Christian Bro­Tim Pollock heads a group of thers College, Murray State and capable catchers. The senior from  by Gregory Solman Sports Writer The playoffs--hockey's "second season,'' begins tonight at the ACC. The Irish will face off at 7:30 against the 'vtinnesota Golden Gophers, a term that promises to g1ve the Irish all they can handle-­at least, if the past is any indica­tion. One statisti• says it all. After playing four g~mes this year, Notre Dame holds a mere 14-13 scoring advantage over the NCAA defen­ding champions. That, along with the characteristic play of the post­season, should be indicative of great hockey to come. Oddly enough, both of the two­game series the teams played this season were played in Minnesota. The first series. played at St. Paul December 28-29, saw Lenny Moher win a close 6-S decision the first night, and the Cophers come back to snag a 3-2 win the next night. In the seco<~d meeting betweeen the two clubs. the Irish nipped the Gophers and their standout goal­tender, Paul J,Jswiak, 3-2. The next night the fre~.hman goalie battled John PetersOJ. to a 3-3 tie. The Gophe1 s boast a host of fast­skating wing('rs in Tom Gorence,  additional pressureon myself.'' Moher, it might be added, is the winningest overtime goalie in the WCHA. The playoffs are something spe­cial for all of the players, but for Kevin Nugent, a native of the St. Paul-Minnear ''lis area, the game is even more meaningful. "For me, this could almost be described as a game within a game," commented an enthusi­astic Nugent. ''I'm really ready for this series. Most of Minnesota's players are guys that I grew up with and played either with or against. Naturally, I in particular, would like to see us win this series." For Dukie Walsh, Irish co-cap­tain and the WCHA's leading scorer, it is not at all an impossible task. "The key to this series will lie in who makes the least mistakes and who commits the least amount of penalties. In a series against a team that has played so well against you, a team has to be careful not to defeat itself." After coming back from a two goal defecit to tie in the second game of the recent Wisconsin series, Lenny Moher indicated that  he felt the team would do well. "The team has good confidence right now,'' he commented, "We've all had a good week of practices, and tying Wisconsin is a good way to enter the playoffs. I'm very relaxed and confident about the series, and optimistic that we will do well." Unfortunately for the Irish, winger-center Steve Schneider will not skate tonight, and probably won't tomorrow. s, ;meider re­ce.ived torn cartilage i 1 the ribs in the physical Wisconsin series. He hopes to play in the weekend series, should one occur. This series with Minnesota also promises to be physical, according to Kevin Nugent. "They're de­fensemen are quite big physi­cally,'' commented the Irish police­man, ''They do use quite a lot of body contact." Tickets are still available for the contests upcoming, and will be available at the door tonight. The games will be broadcast by WNDU radio, with Ted Robinson and Jeff Jeffers. The pregame show will start at 7:15. WSND will also broadcast live from the press box, at 7:20. John Stenson and Meg Morgan will be announcing.  
the University of Illinois.  Mahwah,  N.J.  led  the  team  in  Dan Bonk. K~n  Yackel and Bruce  
The Irish are coming off a 16-24 season. Dr. Tom Kelly's cl!Jb had a disappointing 4.66 ERA last sea­son, but if competition in Notre Dame's first-ever fall season is any indication this will not be a major problem area this year. Leading the mound corp are Jim Sholl and Don Wolfe. The former threw 23 scoreless innings last fall shutting out Indiana State, Cincin­nati and Xavier. He allowed only 17 hits and struckout 16 in his fall performance. Wolfe, a junior Ieft-hander, was the top pitcher during the 1976 spring season with a 6-3 record and a club-leading 2.97 ERA. He did not compete in the fall due to academic commitments AP Top Twenty The Top Twenty teams in The Associated Press college basketball poll, with first-place votes in paren­theses, season records and total points. Points based on 20-18-16­14-12-10-9-8-7-6-5-4-3-2-1: 1. Michigan (29) 24-3 912 2. UCLA (6) 23-4 853 3. San Fran (10) 29-1 743 4. N.Carolina (3) 25-4 688 5. Nev-LV 25-2 564 6. Kentucky (1) 23-3 562 7. Tennessee (1) 21-5 471 8. Arkansas (3) 26-1 331 9.Minnesota 24-3 280 10. Syracuse 25-3 219 11. Cincinnati 25-4 216 12. Alabama 22-4 185 13. Providence 24-4 173 14. Louisville 21-6 128 IS. Notre Dame 20-6 105 16. Marquette 20-7 ~ 17. Detroit 24-3 55 18. UNC-Charlotte 23-3 42 19. Utah 21·6 41 20. Arizona 21·5 34  hitting last fall with a hefty .533 average. Last season he split the duties with two other catchers. Dave DeFacci could see action behind the plate or in the outfield. Last fall he hit .364 as an outfielder and designated hitter, so Kelly will have to find a spot for him in the lineup. Freshman Dan Voelinger, who is the most polished and powerful of the freshman crop will also see action behind the plate. Frank Fiascki and Rick Pullano head a group of solid hitting infieiders. Fiascki hit a team-lead­ing .365 last season. The senior second-baseman led the squad in hits and stolen bases. Pullano hit .500 last fall and did not commit an error at shortstop. He hit .325 as a freshman and seems headed for stardom. Bob Cleary and Rick Greenwell will be in competition all season for the starting nod at third, while Jim Abbatiello appears to have the inside track at first base. The converted second baseman had a fine fall and has a knack for getting of base. Two of the three outfield posi­tions will be manned by experienc­ed seniors. Stan Bobowski, a fine all-around athlete from Arlington Heights, Ill., will probably begin the season in centerfield. He hit .302 in only 14 games of and injury -plagued 1976 season. Mike Galloway hit .266 last season after an impressive .318 figure his sophomore campaign. He will be in left field, but is capable of moving to th,e infield. Bob Bader would be the starting centerfielder if it were not for a not-so-easily­shaken ankle ailment. The speedy junior is an excellent defensive player with his most prized asset being an ability to get a quick jump on the ball. Bill Starr, Craig Zebold, Dan Carey and DeFacci will battle for the final outfield shot.  Lind. The m•:n who center these wingers, Ma: k Lambert and Tom Vannelli are dso outstanding. and provide a solid offensive core. Vannelli, in particular, is a strong point of the Gopher offense. Scor­ing 26 goals and 43 assists to lead Minnesota to their second NCAA championship in three years. Van­nelli is their key man on ottense. Playoff pressure hasn't been known to get the best of Vannelli either, as he •vas the Most Valuable Player of la~;t year's NCAA tour­nament. On defens.;, captain Joe Miche­letti and all-WCHA defensman Reed Larson combine to give the Gophers ne<ded strength in the defensive zo11e. The Golde'! Gophers are coached by Herb Br,,oks, who in his four years with the club, has compiled a 96-52-14 rec< 1rd. The press ue of the playoffs will be felt particularly by the goal­tenders. The series is decided on a most "goals in the series" basis, meaning th<· t the combined total of the goals in :,oth games determines who goes ot: to the next round. for Irish goalteroder Lenny Moher, this poses little problem. "Certainl1, there is a little more pressure," commented Moher, "but pres~.ure is by in large self-inflicted. Actually, it's like a six period hockey game. Playoff games are played more conserva­tively-­with more emphasis on good defen:>e. I'll just approach it as I would an overtime game: with confidence, and without placing Registration set Registration for the Bookstore basketball classic begins tomorrow afternoon. Entries can be made by contacting tournament dirctor Tim Bourret at lSI Morrissey Hall or by phoning 3470.  ND swimmers take third by Judy Byrnes · third heat, Hartye broke De.: and Bruyne's' record with a time of Leigh Tunakan 0:53.845. Paul Hesse broke Jim Sports Writers Fischer's 1973 record of 1:03-2 in the 100-yard breastroke by achiev­The Notre Dame swim team ing a time of 1:03.168. In the finals concluded its 1976-77 season with on Friday, he bettered his time by the Motor Citylnvitationalin Detroit .22 seconds, capturing third for the last Thursday thru Saturday. Their Irish in the event. performance, highlighted by 13 Chiles also achieved second varsity records, captured third place for the Irish in the 100-yard place with a total of 544 points, backstroke with a time of 0:56.643. placing them behind Oakland with in Friday's finals. 643 points and Bradley with 633 The Irish continued their strong points. The other teams repres­performance in Saturday's events ented and their final socres were as they realized five more varsity Wayne State with 405 points, records, two in the preliminaries Northern Michigan with 385 points, and three in the finals. In the Wisconsin with 157 points, Valpa­afternoon, Hesse set a new record raiso with 144 points, and Ferris in the 200-yard breastroke with a with 120 points. time of 2:17.39. He later went on to Thursday's competition was capture third in the event, estab­sparked by Mark Chiles' perfor­lishing a new record time of mance in the 200-yard Individual 2:16.949. Medley. His time of 2:04.838 Chiles also established a new established a new varisty record in varsity record in the preliminaries the event. In the 400-yard medley, of the 200-yard backstroke with a the relay team of Chiles, Andy time of 2:00.919. His time of Petro, Tom Hartye and Ed Fitz­2:00.994 in the finals seized first simons seized second place, with a place for the Irish in the event. new varsity time of 3:41.34. Chiles' Fitzsimons took second place in time of 0:56.55 in the backstroke the 100-yard freestyle with a time leg of the event also set a new of 0:48.75. The relay team of varisty record. Fitzsimons. Hartye. Dalton and In the SO-yard freestyle, Fitz­Scott Jessup in the 400-yard free­simons time of 0:22.075 proved style also achieved second place, victorious. followed by Matt establishing a new varsity record of Dalton's third place performance in 3:14.345. this event. Joe Caverly also cap­Freshman Ron Alitto set a new tured second place for the Irish in varsity record in the 1650-yard the !-meter diving competition freestyle event. His time of with a new record total of 434. I0 17:32.429 topped the previous re­points for II dives. cord of 17:48.9 set by John Sherk in Several varsity records were set 1973. in the preliminaries on Friday. In Scuinr Bob Ehel euded his Irish the first heat of the I 00-yard diving career bv capturing third butterfly. Dale DeBruyne's time of pla<'l', in the th.ree meter diving O:S4.01 proved to he a record­n•1npctitinn with -112.65 points for breaker. Ten minute~ later. in the II di\'CS.  






