
------~----~-~~~--~---------­

server 

an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's Vol. XII, No. 48 Monday, November 14, 1977 
Suspect still at large 
Rapist sketch released 


DESCRIPTION: Senior Staff Reporter 
by Kevin Walsh MW 25 years of age 
Height Approx. 5'9"-5'10"Artists at the St. Joseph County Weight 150-160 lbs. thin build Sheriffs Department have devel­Hair-Blk greasy looking short around the ears .. parted on left hand sideoped a composite sketch of the Crooked teeth 
suspect being sought in connection wtih the raping of two St. Mary's Fair-Complected 
Suspect wore Blk Horn Rim Glassesgirls last week as they were walking toward Notre Dame alon CLOTHING: 
White dress short button front the St. Mary's Road. 
Drk Brn, -Navy Blue possible Sport coatThe sketch, drawn from descrip­Trousers checker -in gold, green & browntions provided by the two victims, unk. shoesdepicts the suspect as a white male Automatic W capon used about 25 years of age. Described NOTE: .
as having a slim build, the man is Witness says suspect looked sloppy. Also looked like he'd been traveling. 
between 5'9" and 5'10" in height and weighs approximately 150-160 ANYONE SEEING TillS SUBJECT PLEASE CALL THE ST. JOSEPHpounds. The suspect's hair, parted COUNTY SHERIFF'S DEPARTMENT 284-9611. 
on the left side, is black, greasy looking, and short around the ears. 
ing this description is asked to call 31. Because of the rape however,The man is said to have a fair the St. Joseph County Sheriff's Grzeskowiak stated, "with the bus complexion, crooked teeth, and to Department at 284-9611. going down St. Mary's Road, it is wear a black, horn rimmed glasses. 
Security measures have been hoped that more people heading
On the night of the incident, the increased since last week's in­that way will ride it.''assailant, said to be sloppy in 
cident, foremost of which has been Even with this change in the bus appearance, was wearing a white the rerouting of the shuttle bus route, however, security along the
dress shirt with a dark brown or down St. Mary's Road. road is still not adequate according navy blue sport coat. His pants 
According to Student Affairs to John Ryan, administrative as­were gold, green and brown Budget Coordinator Bro. Viator sistant to the Student Body Pres-
checked. 
Grzeskowiak, this route had not [Continued on page 6]
The victims said that the suspect 
been used previously because of th had an automatic weapon and security risk that was present with looked like he had been traveling. the constant opening of the un­Student-run 
Anyone seeing a person match-manned gate bordering U.S. Route 

escort service begins tonight 
by Jake Morrissey 
A student-run escort service for 
the Notre Dame campus will begin 
tonight, Anne Thompson, student 
government co-education commis­
sioner has announced. The pur­
pose of the new service, Thompson 
explained will be "to supplement 
the Notre Dame security escort 
service." 
Thompson explained that if a girl 
wants an escort, all she has to do is 
call the Ombudsman (6282) and tell 
them her name, where she is, her 
coat color and the time she wants to 
leave. She should also leave the 
phone number of the place where 
she is calling from. 
''The Ombudsman,'' Thompson 
continued, "will start calling es­
corts available that night and give 
him the girl's name, her coat color 
and the time and place to meet 
her." Mayor McCheese captained the McDonaldland basketball team as 
A return call to the girl by the they performed for a full house before the intrasquad scrimmage last 
Ombudsman competes the pro­night in the ACC. [Photo by John Calcutt] 
cedure, Thompson said. "They 
give her the escort's name, his coat 
color and the time to expect him." 
If no escorts are available, the girl 
requesting the escort will be re­
ferred to Notre Dame security, 
Thompson said. 
More than 60 males have signed 
up as escorts for the service, 
Thompson said, "and we're ex-atea will b~ I"Jpen at all times t~ 
pecting more.'' She explained that >i -•-i ·• _-...-..-..---students( exeept ()n ThuJ:"sday, 
the list of volunteers has been Duetoalackoffmances, a senior Friday, and Saturday nights, when 
reviewed by both student govern-b~ Oil the St. M~'s cma[ms wlU it may be rented by students for 
ment and the office of the Dean of not become a reality this year; small parties. There will probably 
Students, providing a "screening aecording to ancy M()gab, senior he a nomitlal charge in order to pay 
process" of the potential escorts. class ph~sident for the upleep and to help with the 
The escort service is available As an alternative to a senior bar,· repayment of the loan to the 
Sunday through Thursday from 9 approximately one half of the snack College-
p.m. to 12:30 a.m. On Friday and shop located below the dining hall Mogab expects the room to be Saturday nights the service is will be converted into a social area carpeted and furnl<>hed ~th com­available from 9 p.m. to 2:30 a. m. to give students a place to Tl}eet and for<able chairs and booihs as well The service is available on Iy on the relax. A wall will be, built in the as numberous card tables and a Notre Dame campus. snack shop to separat{ the social television. Games such as cbes~­
Anyc;me interested in volunteer-aren from the snack bar-The ba:kgam:non, and pvol will be ing for the service or for answering College is providing a $1000 dona­available. the telephones at the Ombudsman tion and a $1000 loan for the Any architecture and art stu­
Son Seals provided the climax for Friday night of the Blues 
on Friday and Saturday evenings c~strjlction of the wall. to wl1!ch ,,,,nts interested in working on theFestival this past weekend-. Both Friday and Saturday's can contact Anne Thompson at the will 6e added a $1000 donation design for the proposed social areasessions drew large crowds to Stepan Center. [Photo by john student government offices for more ' from the student government. sbould _contact Nancy Mof!ab atCalcutt) information. Tenatively, the proposed social 5127.. 


--------~~--~------~~------... 
the observer Monday, November 14, 197'7 

Somalia expels Russians, 
On Campus Today_---... 
noon 
3 p.m. 
4 p.m. 5 p.m. 6:30p.m. 7 p.m. 
7 p.m. 7 p.m. 
7 p.m. 
7:20p.m. 
8 p.m. --____ 
Weather: unrme~ 
Partly cloudy today, but clear tonight and mostly sunny tomorrow. Highs today will be in the mid 40s, with lows tonight in the low to mid 30s. Highs tomorrow will be in the low 50s. 
Xmas card sale sponsored by CILA 
This year's CILA (Council for International Lay Apostolate) Christmas card sale will feature four original art prints by St. Mary's and Notre Dame students. 
Priced at $2 a dozen, cards will be sold beginning next Sunday in the library concourse, from 3 p.m. to II :30 p.m. Sunday through Thursday; in LaFortune from 11 
a.m. to 9:30 p.m.; and in Sacred Heart before and after Sunday Masses. 
The Christmas card project is a primary source of income for the $13,000 fiscal budget of CILA. Almost the entire 200 person membership will take part in the sale. Profits are to be used to offset the cost of summer projects. 
Last summer CILA sponsored urban development projects in Boston, New Orleans Brownsville, Texas, South Carolina and Oak­land, California. CILA is also responsible for such projects for Urban Plunge, Neighborhood Workshop, Neighborhood Roots, and Amnesty International. 
CILA describes its goal as raising awareness of the injustice in social, political, and economic structures at city, national and international levels. 

:j~r===;=;=JULI0 's==>=:====!i!: 
now servtng 


DELiaous 
CJDCKEN 




~( u!IN:::::L~m ) 
} your room piping hot, phone r 
f  232-7919.  1  
::::;  ::::  
:lll!  ~~~~~1 =:  ~\\\  

\l:::::::::::::tgT::~:::!::=~~::=::::::::::::~\~\ ~iiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~iir;;·iiiiiiiAiliT.iii_.iii 8 & 0 iil.iiiiiiiGiiiiR&Eii.iiiii!iiiiiiiiiiiii~~iiiliiill 
discussion, by professor juan mendez, sponsored by latin american awareness week, informal "brown bag" lunch discussion on systems of law in latin america, caron court, Iafortune. 
career workshop, "gathering information," by karen o'neil, sponsored by career development center smc, student affairs conference room, smc. 
civilization film series, "the light of experience," carroll hall, smc. 
annual meeting, university club election of board members, clubroom. 
judo class, sponsored by judo club, beginners welcome, ace wrestling pit. 
career workshop, "work values," pat mccormack, sponsored by career development center cdc, holy cross parlor, smc. 
presentation, the rome program, room 232 moreau hall. 
counseling center workshop, "anxiety manage­ment," sponsored by counseling center, room 400 administration bldg. 
latin american week lecture, "church in latin america," tom quigley, sponsored by latin american division of u.s. catholic conference, library auditor­ium and lounge. 
duplicate bridge, _ladies o! not~e dame, faculty, and staff duplicate bndge, umvers1ty dub. 
theatre, "the winter's tale," national shake~p~are company, sponsored by nd cultural arts comm1ss1on, o'laughlin aud.
_:::__::_:~::.:_:__::::..:..:_:_____________---1 
Night Editor: Joe Bauer Asst. Night Editor: Tracy Her­man Supplement layout: "Ko­komo" Sports layout: Tony Pace Typists: Leigh Tunakan, Steve Odland, Anne Giere Night Controller: Mardi Nevin Day Editor: Jake Morrissey Copy Reader: Phil Cackley, Diane Wilson Ad layout: the Big Guy Photographer: John Calcutt 
The Observer Is published Mon­dey through Frldey except during exem end vacation periods. The Observer Is published by the students of Notre Deme end Selnt Mery's College. Subscriptions mey be purchesed for no per yeer (S 1 o per semester) from The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Deme, lndiene 46556. Second cl1111 postege peld, Notre Deme, lndlene, 4U56. . The Observer 11 e member of the Anoclllted Pren. All repro­duction rights ere reaerved. 

break:; off relations with Cuba 
NAIROBI, Kenya [.AP]--Somalia, 
once one of Moscow's closest 
friends in Africa, broke relations 
with Cuba yesterday, expelled all 
Russian advisors and terminated 
Soviet use of air and naval facilities 
at two Somali ports, the Somali 
radio said. 
The Somalis also ordered the Soviet embassy to cut back its staff and renounced its 1974 friendship treaty with the Kremlin, the radio said. 
The moves capped a steady decline in Somali-Soviet relations as Moscow has increasingly thrown its support behind Ethiopia, Soma-
Tutors n•?Jeded in all subjects 
Tutors for all subject areas are needed for elementary and high school students in the South Bend area. Tutors will work on a one-on-one basis and on most cases, transportation will be pro­vided. 
Volunteers are also needed as Big Brothers, Cub Scout leaders, and workers in nursing homes. Any student willing to volunteer, call the Volunteer Services Office at 7308. 

PREPARE FOR: MCIT •DIT •LSIT •&MIT E_••r &RE •OCIT • liT· SIT 1MBI.II,III·ECFMI·FLEX·IQE 
NAT'L DENTAL BOARDS • NURSING BOARDS Flexible Protrarns 6 Houm 
'l"hn' IS alliffnnacelll 


!£~~;::~"· ~~~~ 
Serving BloQJ!llngtop., Indianapo)is, South 
Ben~tslreo:.lt:~:~::Jr,~Ji}tfE: foo~~:-na2 
Centers In MaJor US Cities Toronto, Puerto Rico and Lu1ano, Switzerland 
fCLt~SES N_~f FORMING 
lia's bitter rival. 
There was no immediate com­
ment from Moscow. 
Yesterday's moves followed 
Somali claims that Cuban troops 
are fighting alongside Ethiopian 
forces battling Somali-backed 
insurgents in Ethiopia's southeast­
ern Ogaden desert. 
The Russians have been funnel­
ling arms, including tanks and jet 
fighters, to Ethiopia while at the 
same time cutting supplies to 
Somalia, formerly its major ally in 
the Horn of Africa. 
Somali Information Minister Abdulqadir Salad Hasan was quot­ed in the Somali broadcast from the capital of Mogadishu as saying the Cuban Embassy staff and experts have been given 48 hours to leave the country. He said Soviet military and technical experts, believed to number 3000-4000, have been ordered out within seven days. 
Abdulqadir also said Somalia had "immediately" ended Soviet use of Somali port facilities. 
These include the prts of Berbera and Kismayu, used by Moscow's 
Wo Doctor UOM Noel no• AHtd T..lr Dylo1 & Sift T ..lr Solool 
Quick Service Reasonable Prices Repairs 
while you wait ... 
ACROSS FROM THE BOOKSTORE 
(283) -1144 

MILLER LITE PARTY 
2 for $1.00 
.free CORBY's T-shirts & Corb_y mugs 
complements .of LITE beer 
Tuesday Night 7:00-3:00' 
Indian Ocean fleet. Russia also h missile storage provisions Berbera. 
The official announcement ov the radio station said the decisio were taken yesterday at a lengt session of the ruling central co mittee, headed by President Si Barre. The committee justified t moves, Abdulqadir said, on t following grounds: --That the Soviets and Cubans ha "brazenly interfered" in the stru gle of ethnic Somalis fighting Ethiopia's Ogaden region to ga· "their liberation from the Ethiop an government.'' The insurgen control more than 90 percent of t region. --That by supplying Ethiopia wit "military assistance and perso nel" it has become clear th intention is to launch an attack o 
Somalia. 
The Somalis have said th sophisticated weapons supplied b Moscow already are being used i the fight against the insurgents an that between 7000 and 15,00 Cuban troops are in Ethiopia. 

To save money,buy your boots and shoes from TONY! 
\ 't ''I• )I ,. .. ,. . 
l ~ . •.. ~ •• ~; .~.. ~~.·· If~' ~:. • ~ :· .: .. .. ........ •.
.... ... ~
~'\ .....~ .....:.:... '· .. •... ·. ··.·\ ,'•.'
~ 
•, • • '• 'o' • "••'"'·'•~'.. '." 'o '••"...:,, .......... "w • o •.• "C. ............... •......... ·........., .......~.·........... 

Monday, November 14, 1977 
the observer 


Students participate in business conference 
by Maureen Eyres 
Three Notre Dame seniors parti­cipated in a conference entitled "Business Tomorrow IV" held in Washington, D.C., Nov. 6-8. The conference was sponsored by the Foundation for Student Communi­cation, of Princeton University. 
The three students were Carl Kronenbush and Mary Flannery, both economics majors, and Maureen Eyres, an American Stud­ies major. Also participating in the conference were 180 students and SO faculty members from universi­ties across the country, as well as 
At least ten dead 
150 business executives. 
The purpose of "Business To­morrow IV," according to its organizer, Foundation President, David Corbin, "is to bring students and businessmen together so stu­dents get a good idea of what the business world is like. It also provides businessmen an opportu­nity to see that today's students aren't purposeless, do have opin­ions, and these opinions should be recognized.'' 
"After flying down to D.C.," Flannery related, "we had a tight schedule of panel speakers, follow­ed by small group discussions. In the small groups, students and 
businessmen shared their com­
ments on the topics." 
Topics for thought and discus­sion included: "The Role of the Entrepreneur in the American Soci­ety," "Are There Physical Limits to Future Growth?" and the "Role of the Multinationals in the World Economy.'' 
Speakers included Professor Robert Heilbronner, of the New School; William Rusher, editor of The National Review; C.H. Hardesty, vice-chairman of Conti­nental Oil; and Dr. Eliot Janeway, presidential economic advisor. 
Heilbronner, whose two main fields of interest are classical bate within the small groups," Flannery stated. 


Liquid protein diets can kill 
WASHINGTON [AP[--Govern­ment health officials last week blamed liquid protein diets for the deaths of at least ten women and warned weight consciou consumers not to try this popular modified fast without specialized medical care. 
"There is every reason to believe that the liquid protein diet was at least a contributing factor or a cause" in the sudden heart attack deaths of the ten women, Food and Drug Commissioner Donald Kennedy told a news conference. 
"We expect to find others," Kennedy said. "We only have what we're afraid may be the tip of the 
by Martha Fanning Managing Editor 
A female Notre Dame student was assaulted on Thursday, Nov. 3, at 8:30p.m. The incident occured as the student was crossing the field behind the Athletic and Convocation Center, traveling to­ward Ivy Road. 
In a report to ND security, the student stated she passed a man who she termed an "exhibition­ist." As she continued toward the edge of the field, the male came up behind her and placed his hand over her mouth. The student "bit down hard" on the man's hand and he released her. Both individuals ran from the scene in different directions. 
The female then proceeded to the home of a friend, who escorted her home. She called ND security at 9:50p.m that night to report the incident and was asked to come in the next day. Another interview with security was held on Nov. 8. 
The man was described as "a male white cauca ian, six feet tall, 170 pounds, mid 20's hair parted in the middle, wearing a navy blue waist length zippered jacket. 
James Roemer, dean of Stu-
Lecture topic is 
poetry experience 
The Forever Learning Institute will sponsor a lecture on "The Experience of Poetry" on Wednes­day at 1:30 p.m. The Forever Learning Institute is located at 197 
S. Greenlawn in South Bend. 
The 90-minute program will be centered around two ideas: the experience that shape a poem and the ways in which we experience a poem. 
The lecture is the second in a four part series being sponsored by the Division of Continuing Educa­tion at IUSB. Lectures include Rogelio de Ia Torre, professor of Spa:;ish at IUSB; Ruth Cassel Hoffman, assistant professor of French at SMC; Laurie HOrst, a SMC sophomore; Jeanne Rodes, an instructor of English at SMC; and Deanna Sokolowski, assistant professor of English at SMC. 
political economy and contempo­rary trends in capitalism, opened the conference by speaking on the state of society, which is being increasingly influenced by technol­ogy. His basic attitJJde was that "things are getting worse." 
Heilbronner said, "Our beliefs 
are decreasing while our ambitions are increasing and technology is running uncontrolled." He added, "But if we stop technology, the thrust of the capitalist system would die." 
Heilbronner concluded his speech by offering a plan for a new system, which he called the "sur­vivalist state" which would control economic and technological growth. 
''This and other controversial subjects provided material for de­
The Foundation for Student
supervision. Do not use without 
Communication is a completely
medical advice if you are taking

Student assaulted 
student-operated, non-profit, edu­
prescription medications. Not for 
cational organization located at
use by infants, children or preg­
Princeton University. The Founda­
nant or nursing women."

earlier this month 
Frank Ingram, a representative of McDonald's Corp., commented,iceberg." diet should not abandon it abruptly "I was surprised at the conserva­The women were among 16 without medical advice because tive stand of most of the students. Ifatalities and numerous severe resumption of normal eating also came to the conference prepared to
illnesses reported to the govern­can cause serious complications. ment's Center for Disease Control Kennedy said the FDA is moving defend the businessman's posi­in Atlanta with suspicions that the immediately to inform the medical tion." Ingram added, "Most of the popular predigested liquid protein community about the risks of the 
students and executives seemed to see eye to eye."
·'diet was responsible. diet. He urged physicians who Kronenbush criticized the busi­
prescribe it to be alert "for any
He urged people now on the diet 
nessmen's attitude, stating,
warning signs of impending cardio­
"to get themselves into the hands "Although the businessmen werevascular disorders.'' 
of a physician who can monitor interesting and willing to discuss a
He added the FDA will proceed
them" for danger signs. However, large variety of issues concerning
as quickly as possible to require
he said the women who died were the American economic system, I
bottles of the predigested liquid
under medical supervision at the found I still could not agree with
protein to carry warnings that will
time. 
their optimism and simplemindedsay: faith in the workings of theHe added that people now on the "Do not use for weight reduction American capitalist system. 
or maintenance without medical 
tion regularly publishes the Busl-
Manufacturers of the progein ness Today magazine, which is the nation's largest student publica­tion, distributed to over 200,000 students nationwide. 
Business Tomorrow IV was the fourth conference of its kind. The idea of the National Conference," Corbin explained, ''is to bring about a personal focus on the questions raised in the magazine and to create an opportunity for individual discussion." 
"We encourage one-day regional follow-up conferences to bring a local focus to business-student interaction," Corbin added. 
Students were selected on the basis of an application and the recommendation of the Deans of their respective colleges. The Foundation assumed all expenses through donations from participa­ting businesses and corporations. 
Logan needs football tickets 
Students have been asked to donate their football tickets for Saturday!s Air Force game to the ND-SMC Council for the Retarded. The student tickets will be collected Tuesday through Friday nights during dinner in both North and South Dining Halls. Off-campus students may leave their tickets at the Student Activities Office in the lobby of LaFortune. 
Art Koebel, co-director of the Council, said that between 150 and 200 tickets are needed. The tickets will be stamped so the Logan clients can use them without stu­dent ID's. 
Koebel noted that students attend four or five football games a season while "these kids get to maybe one in a lifetime." 
dents, stressed that the incident was "an assault and not an attempted rape.'' The description of the assailant led Roemer to believe that this incident was unrelated to the Nov. 8 rapes which occured on the Notre Dame cam­pus. 
Roemer explained that the dalay in reporting the occurance to the campus was not intentional. He statedhe was waiting for more complete information before re­leasing it to The Observer. 
derived primarily from animal hides, tendons and other usually inedible portions of beef are being asked to voluntarily apply the warningsimmediately, while FDA goea through the necessary rule­making proceedings. Those pro­ceedings may take several weeks or months, Kennedy said. 
Kennedy said if the evidence against liquid protein continues to mount, ''we will use every regula­tory tool at hand to get it off the market.'' 
Have a FANTASTICK time after THE FANTASTICKS' 
at the 
Wme and Cbree J>arty ~ Friday, November 18 # 
9pm-lam ~Q~ 
1st Unitarian Church 
1o1 E. North Shore Drive {off U.S. 31} ~# 
tjckets on sale -S. U. ticket office 
for low, low price of $1.00. Umited amount of tickets 
available! Sponsored by the Student Union Sodal Commission. 
*The Observer 
is looking for ~ualified applicants to fill the position of 


ASSISTANT AD MANAGER. 
SALARY, ADVANCEMENT POTENTIAL AND EXCELLENT WORK EXPERIENCE ARE OFFERED. 
schedule interview at Observer office, 3rd floor LaFortune mon. -fri. till 5:00pm 
Anyone interested in the position of 
Observer Features Editor 
should contact the Obseruer office (4th ~oor LaFortune, tel. 7471) between 9 and 5. All applications 
. 
should 6e in by Wednesday, Nou 23. 

--~------­
-Monday, November 14, 1977
the observer
4 
UNIVERSITY RULES AND REGULATIONS 
r 
i 




PREAMBLE 
lt scholars are to dwell together in peace, they will have to live under law· Law can be considered either negatively-as a system of repressions ending in punishment; of positiv­ely-as a rule of reason for the C?mmon go~d..
Law as a positive force is possible both Withm the civil society and within the. university which, though a part of the civil society, is ~ifferent from it in several ways. Above all, smce the society of a private university is voluntary, it is 
hoped that a greater proportion of the "citizens"of this society would comply with the law for the good of their society. The scope of 
law Of the two SOCl.eti'es ··s also different,· the law 
of the larger society c~ touch individu~ behavior only as this behaviOr affects the public order. The law of the voluntary societr can touch the life of the individual in and for ttself. 
In a voluntary society, members possess a bond of loyalty and commitment that cannot be taken for granted within the civil society. A student would challenge an offensive student more conscientiously, one hopes, than the average citizen would challenge a cri~al.. Another expectation in a voluntary soCiety IS that offenders will be dealt with patiently and personally more to help ~d ~rrect .tJ:Ian to punish. However, the Umversity tr~d~tionally reserves the right to deny the pnvilege of
enrollment to any student whose conduct or 
attl·tude .s believed to be detrimental to the
1 
welfare of the University. 
Another distinctive feature of the universitycommunity is its basic student composition. and its corresponding distinctive pattern of ~elymisbehavior. A college campus suffers little violent crime but more reckless mistreatment of property and thoughtless abuse of one's fellows, more cheating and ba~ manners. In a university, concern for the soCial order an~ for personal growth is a function of education. Students--as the majority component--must assume responsibility for seeing that rules are observed as they stand ready for more public responsibilities beyond the campus.. 
A particular difference--but agam, one of 
degree--between a voluntary socie!~ like Not~ 
Dame and the state is the ambition of this 
University to be a place where men and women 
will become more humane and where Christian 
l"deals will be realized. Notre Dame itself must 
represent the paradox of faith, which imposes more stringent demands on one's behavior and social constructiveness, yet extends .
compassion to those who fail. more 
The law of the campus, therefore, IS
somewhat different from the law of the land. 
The University rules set few limits on student behavior precisely because there are more positive reasons for most students to do that themselves. Yet the rules can and do go beyond what is simply required for public order, and so will offend a selfish individualism which causes men to ignor all but what affects themselves. On the other hand, the demands of comradeship 
allow for an informality and flexibility of procedure when dealing with offenses. Due process in a university is ~o.t necess~y t~e same due process in the Civil courts With Its more elaborate precautions which are required to protect the accused from abuse. 
But the attitude both state and university can share is that law, as an ordinance of reason for the common good, can help motivate behavior and creat community. "Morality cannot be legislated" is a dangerous simplification. Good laws are an aid to morality, just as bad laws have amply demonstrated their support of immorality. Similarly, rational, experienced legislation is an aid to comradeship essential to a voluntary society. With the rules and regulations that follow, the University describes minimally what behavior cannot be tolerated; by these disciplinary p~cedures it admi~s unhappily that some of Itss members will occasionally do what is intolerable. And for that something more than laws and courts must be the remedy. So much more is needed if scholars are to dwell together in love. 
RULES 
The University community expects all of its students to be responsible in their social conduct so as to reflect favorably upon themselves and the community. At the University, as in the nation and the states, generally accepted values and manners are embodied in rules and regulations. Students are required to abide by th·em, as they are expected to abide by the federal and state laws, but also to criticize and help improve them year 
by year. The University rules and regulations come d th · · d' t' f th D f St d nts
un er e JUns IC Ion o e ean o u e . 
All violations are at the_ disposition of the Dean 
of Students. These rules and Jregulations apply to all students on campus and off campus. 
For example, some actions are obviously inconsistent with the ideals of this community and raise the question of whether the offender wishes to remain a member of this voluntary society, and whether the community wants him or her to remain here. These include: 
1. 
Any threat or deliberate injury to the person of another within or without the University community. 

2. 
Any willful damage to the reputation or psychological well-being of others. 

3. 
Any dishonesty, cheating, forgery, or takin d t f th f al ain 


g a van age 0 ano er or person g · 
4. Any serious disturbance of the University
community infringing upon the rights and well-being of others. 
5. Any theft or damage to ]property of the University or of individuals. 
Other actions seemingly affecting only the individuals involved have a direct bearing on the University community and our concern for each other's personal and academic growth. 
6. The use of alcoholic beverages in moderation is accepted at this University. Alcohol may be consumed in piivate rooms in the residence halls and other rooms in the hall but only in accord with guidelines established by the Office of StUdent Affairs. A small private room obviously does not have the facilities to hold many people, nor can larger parties in living areas of the halls without proper planning remain isolated enough to respect the rights of other residents. 
St d t h'b't d fro · g
u en s are pro I I e m possessm or 
consuming alcoholic beverages elsewhere on 
campus, either on the grounds ofthe campus or in the nonresidential campus facilities, without the permission of the Dean of Students. 
::1.:.~;.:.~.....;,....,_________________________________ 
Students should be aware of Indiana state law: 
It shall be unlawful for any minor to possess or have on his person for his own use or to consume or to transport on any public highway when not accompanied by at least one of the said minor's parents or guardians any alcoholic beverages of any kind or description... (Bums 12-643 ). 
No alcoholic beverages shall be sold, bartered, exchanged, given, provided or furnished to any person under the age of 21 years... (Bums 12-610). 
7. Providing for others, by sale or otherwise, marijuana or any dangerous drug, is considered 
a serious violation. Possession or use of any narcotic or hallucinogenic is likewise a serious violation. Although there is some uncertainty about the effects of marijuana, the University does not consider its use acceptable. 
8. 
Because a geniune and complete expression of love through sex requires a commitment to a total living and sharing together of two persons in marriage, the University believes that sexual union should occur only in marriage. 

9. 
Coeducation allows men and women to contribute to one another's education and to form genuine friendships. It is for these reasons that the program of limited parietal 


visitation in dormitory student rooms is 
supported by the University. In the proper context visitation can facilitate personal and social development and enhance the quality of life on our campus. 
With the University statement on parietal visitation providing the necessary guidelines, residence hall student leadership, working cooperatively with rectors and other Student Affairs staff are expected to develop, imple­ment, and continuously supervise the visitation program in their respective halls. When functioning properly the dormitory visitation programs should be regulated by students. 
Individual halls will set their visitation hours within the following limits: Visiting for guests of the opposite sex are not to begin before 11 
a.m. 
on any day and are not to extend beyond 2 

a.m. 
on Friday and Saturday nights, and midnight on other nights. On home football Saturdays visitation will begin at 10 a.m. The 


resident shall be responsible for the proper
conduct of his or her guests. Guests under the age of 17 years will not be admitted unless they are members of a resident's immediate family. 

L NARY PROCEEDINGS
RIGHTS IN DISCIP I 
I 
Students shall be made aware of their rights and all possible efforts will be made to safeguard these rights which shall include the following: 
1. 
A written statement of the rules and regulations of the University shall be published. 

2. 
A statement of the rights of students shall also be published. 

3. 
The right to be presumed innocent until proven guilty. . 

4. 
Notification of particular charges at least two days in advance of a hearing on said charges, unless waived by the !itudent. 

5. 
Free choice of undergraduate student counsel who may be present at the time of the hearing before the Dean of Students. The student charged may be represented only by undrgraduate student counsel. The Dean of Students shall at all times deal directly with the student charged and not through any third party. 

6. 
Assistance, if requested, in obtaining the testimony of witnesses necessary to the defense and relative to the evidence pertaining to the hearing. 

7. 
Hearing before the Judicial Review Board where any members may be c.hallenged and replaced for good and defensible cause. ·The Board itself shall rule on all objections after 


hearing arguments form the student (under­graduate student counsel) and from the Dean of Students. The challenged member of the Board may comment but not vote. All decisions of the Board shall be made by majority vote. 
8. Hearing before the Dean of Students 
9. 
The right to admit or deny all charges, to call witnesses, to present evidence on his or her own behalf. 

10. 
Access to the names of prospective witnesses. The Dean shall provide these names to the student and the student shall provide these names to the Dean of Students. This shall be done prior to the hearing. The right to confront them openly at the hearing, except in extraordinary circumstances when the Presi­dent of the University or the Acting President judges the well-being of witnesses to be in serious jeopardy. 

11. 
The right to appeal to the Judicial Review Board, except for violations which occur during the summer as defined previously. 

12. 
The right of the student or the Dean of Students to appeal to the President or the Acting President in his absence. 

13. 
The right to be given a written explanation for disciplinary decisions. 

14. 
The right to confidentiality in all disciplinary matters, unless waived by the student. 


------------~-----~--~----------------~~ 
1. Viola~ons of hall rules and regulations are considered within the hall. 
a. 
·students subject to disciplinary action may choose to have their cases considered by the rector or by the hall judicial board. The rector shall make the student aware of this option in each disciplinary action. 

b. 
The hall judicial board shall be composed of five (5) residents in academic and disciplinary good standing (i.e., not on acade­mic or disciplinary probation) selectedbeforethe end of each year. The chainnan of the judicial board shall be selected by the incoming hall president and the outgoing judicial board chairman, with the approval of the rector. Board members shall be selected by a committee composed of the new judicial board chairman, one member of the hall staff chosen by the rector, and one member of the hall council chosen by the hall president. Board members will serve a one-year term beginning at the start of the first class day in the fall and concluding at the end of the last class day in the spring. 

c. 
Students may appeal decisions of the hall judicial board to the rector. The rector may appeal decisions of the hall judicial board to the Dean of Students. Students may appeal decisions of the rector directly to the Dean of Students. This appeal to the Dean of Students shall be the final appeal in these hall cases. 


2. Violations of University rules and regula­tions are not considered by the hall judicial board except as provided in the following paragraphs 3b, 3c,3d, and 3e. 
a. 
H the rector or the Dean of Students so decides, violations of hall rules of a very serious nature may be heard by the rector; or they may be treated as though they were violations of University rules or regulations and therefore heard by the Dean of Students in accordance with the pertinent procedures. 

b. 
Rectors are strongly urged to use the hall judicial board and to limit their handling of disciplinary cases to those which are truly serious or sensitive or involve pastoral concerns not appropriate for a judicial board. 


3. Residence Hall Rules 
life in a residence hall at Notre Dame has traditionally provided an opportunity for the academic, spiritual and social development of every student. like any society, each hall is guided by rules designed to promote good order and to assist each resident in his personal growth. Students should be aware of and abide by the rules governing hall life. The following actions are considered offenses against the good order of the hall: 
a. 
Any actions which infringe upon the rights and well-being of fellow residents. 

b. 
Any theft or damage to the property of the hall or its residents. 

c. 
Any failure to comply with the rules limiting the consumption of alcohol to private rooms in the hall. These guidelines are established by the Office of Student Affairs as indicated in the University Rules. 

d. 
The use of marijuana within the residence hall. (Providing or selling marijuana to others involves a violation of University rules to be handled by the Dean of Students.) 

e. 
The possession or use of any form of fireworks. 

f. 
Any offense against the good order of one hall by a person from another hall will be referred to the Dean of Students by the rector of the local judicial board. 


In addition to these rules, each hall may adopt further regulations to meet the need of the particular hall. 
4. Judicial Review Board 
a. Decisions of the Dean of Students may be appealed to the Judicial Review Board as hereafter constituted. A student is entitled to a review hearing of any aspect of the Dean of Students' decision, including the severity of the penalty. The student and the Dean may call witnesses and present evidence at the hearing. Students desiring a hearing by the Board must notify the Dean of Students in writing within five calendar days after being informed of the Dean's decision. H the appeal is not filed in five days, the right to appeal to this Board is no longer available. 
The right to a review hearing exists for all disciplinary actions resulting from violations which occur from the first day of class in the fall semester and before the end of the last class day in the spring semester. Appeals of the Dean's decision during the summer as defined above will be to the President or the Acting Presidnet in his absence. 
b. The Judicial Review Board shall be composed of five people selected for each case 
I 
Monday, November 14, 1977 the observer 
fa 
from a panel of twelve faculty and administra­tive personnel. For each case, the student shall ~ 
select one member, the Dean of Students one member, and the remaining three shall be chosen at random in the presence of the student 
u 
or his undergraduate student counsel and in the presence of the Dean of Students. The random selection shall proceed in an ordered fashion so that the ratio of faculty to administrators on tht: 
ttl 
Board is either three to two or two to three.0 Decisions of the Board shall be by majority vote 
8: 
and shall be transmitted in writing to the Dean of Students who shall transmit a copy of. the decision to the student. The twelve member panel shall be selected by the Student Government Board of Commis­>­sioners from the nominations of twelve facultya=: members by the Fa~ulty Senate and twelve administrators by the Vice President for Student Affairs. These annual nominations are to be submitted to the President of the
~ 
...... University for approval. The panel shall be composed of six faculty and six administrative 
~
Q.: members. The panel shall be selected by the end The Hall Judicial Board may impose some form ~ of the spring semester for a one-year term of appropriate constructive activity or a mone­U beginning at the start of the first class day in the tary fine. It also may recommend to the rector 
V) fall. . that a student be transferred off campus or that the student beplacedon hall probation. It could 
...... c. The President of the University has the also recommend, through the rector, that the
0 right of final decision in disciplinary matters Dean of Students_impose the sanction in very brought before him. Decisions of the Judicial serious cases ifit felt there was a possibility that Review Board may be appealed to the President suspension or dismissal might be appropriate. of the University or the Acting President. ·Disciplinary cases considered by the Dean of Either the student or the Dean of Students may Students may result in any of the following appeal within seven calendar. Failure to appeal penalties, depending on the gravity of the 
within seven calendar days shall mean that the right to this hearing no longer exists. Decisions by the President are final. 
d. The Board of Traffic and Parking Appeals will serve the faculty, staff and student 
communities. Included as members of this single appeal board will be two faculty members appointed by the Faculty Senate, four undergraduate students appointed by Student Government, two graduate students appointed by the Graduated Student Union, and two staff members appointed by the Director of Person­nel, all subject to approval by the Dean of Students. The Board of Traffic and Parking Appeals will organize itself according to the instructions of the Dean of Students who has responsibility for coordination and supervision of the work of the Board. (For procedures for appealing citations please refer to Article IV of the Traffic and Parking Regulations.) 
......_--------------~------------~-----­
We recognize the need for a number of
V) 
regulations to assure the good order of our::Z educational venture. 
1. Any directive from the office of the Dean
0 
of Students has the force of a University -..... regulation. . ~ 2. Every student must carry a Notre Dame ID ~ Card and present it when requested by any ' official of the University, including campus ~ security police, dining hall authorities and ~ residence hall staff. -.J 3. Any student who wishes to withdraw from I 1\ the University must do so through the office of V the Dean of Students. This procedure must beLIJ followed to avoid failures in all classes for thea=: semester and to receive financial adjustment. 
4. 
The Dean of Students regulates the use of the lakes and property adjoining the University. This includes all parking facilities. 

5. 
No freshman living on campus may possess or rent an automobile or any other · motor-driven vehicle for use while in attendance at the University. Seniors, juniors, and sophomores living on campus, and all off-campus students must register their motor vehicles at the Security Office within 48 hours of arrival. Only cars owned by students or their immediate family may be registered. Title of ownership must be shown at the time of registration. Proof of financial responsibility, covering a minimum of $15,000 -$30,000 for bodily injury and property damage of $10,000, must be shown at the time of registration. All students are expected to be familiar with the Traffic and Parking Regulations distributed when they register their cars with Security. 

6. 
The University reserves the right to transfer a student's residence. 

7. 
Permission to move off campus must be obtained from the office of the Director of Housing. A change of address must also be registered at the same office. Failure to comply with this regulation will result in disciplinary action. 


Off-campus students are temporary residents of the city of South Bend, and therefore, are 
4. The Dean of Students~ as disciplinary officer of the University, is responsible for the observance of these procedures. 
a. 
The Dean of Students shall make a written record fairly summarizing the state­ments and testimony given during the proceed­ings before the Dean of Students and the Judicial Reveiw Board. The Chainnan of the Judicial Review· Board shall be allowed to review the written record of the Board hearing prepared by the Dean following the Judicial Review Board hearing and may submit addi­tional comments to be included in the file if he or she so desires. 

b. 
The Dean of Students shall be sent records and reports of all disciplinary actions, except for cases within the halls where the rector has the discretion to retain the records. All disciplinary records are confidential, unless the student under consideration chooses other­wise. 

c. 
Disciplinary cases considered withing the hall may result in expulsion from the hall. 


offense: 
1) some form of appropriate constructive activity 
2) the imposition of a monetary fine 
3) a transfer of residence, either to another hall or off campus 
4) disciplinary probation 
5) suspension for any length of time 
6) permanent dismissal 
d. In emergencies where the Dean of Students judges there to be imminent danger of serious harm to persons or to property, or serious obstruction of University life, he may summarily suspend and even expel students. The student shall have the right to appeal the Dean's actions in these cases to the President or to the Acting President in his absence. An appeal in these situations must be delivered in writing to the President's office within seven days of the Dean of Students' decision. 
the ordinances of the city of Sout~ :(,vld .. Off-campus students are expected to ~..w an understanding with the renter concerning the rules to be enforced on the premises. It is the official policy of the Universit community not to tolerate discrimination in an 
way. 
8. All demonstrations must be registered 
with the Dean of Students and also mus observe and the following rules: 
a. 
All demon·strations must be peaceful and orderly. 

b. 
Only memberss of the University community may organize or lead a demonstra­tion on campus. 

c. 
Demonstrators may not impede the freedom of the University community. 

9. For safety and health reasons: 

a. 
Pets are not to be kept on campus or brought regularly onto the campus. 

b. 
Firearms are not allowed in students' rooms. A firearm is described as any instrument that causes any type of missile to be p~pelled. This includes rifle, shotgun, all pistols, BB gun, pellet gun, and bow and arrow. 


Weapons to be used by gun clubs and hunters will be stored in the Security Office and may be used upon request by owners. 
c. 
The possession or use of any form of fireworks is forbidden. 

d. 
Fire alarm systems and other building­installed fire equipment such as fire hose cabinets, portable fire extinguishers and sprink­ler systems are installed in buildings for the LIFE, SAFETY AND PROTECTION OF AIL OCCUPANTS. Malicious tampering with or misuse of these devices and system components will result in severe disciplinary action against all persons involved. 


10. The throwing of food or other objects in the dining halls is a serious offense against the entire community. 
The above rules and regulations come under the jurisdiction of the Dean of Students. All violations are at the disposition of the Dean of 

_;_ 
-----~-----------------­
the observer Monday, November 14, 19n 


FCC advocates lnedia blackout procedures 
WASHINGTON [AP[--The Fed­
eral Communications Commission 
(FCC) said yesterday steps must be 
taken to eliminate disruptions in 
communications services during 
power blackouts. 
The commission based its con­
clusion on a study of electrical 
Cleveland Club provides bus 
The Notre Dame-Cleveland Club 
announced that for those students 
wishing transportation to Cleve­
land for Thanksgiving vacation, 
there are still seats available on the 
charter bus. For reservations, 
studenst should contact Dave Beno 
at 1795, Bill Scheible at 277-3509 or 
Debbie Stancik at 4-4729. 
The charter bus to Cleveland will 
leave Notre Dame on Wednesday, 
Nov. 23 at 1:30 p.m. from the 
Center for Continuing Education 
and from LeMans Hall (SMC) at 
I :45 p.m. The bus will return from Cleveland on Sunday, Nov. 28, leaving the Greyhound terminal in downtown Cleveland at 6 p.m. 
Workshop offered on anxiety 
The Counseling Center will offer 
a three-session workshop on ''An­
xiety Management" in Room 400 of 
the Administyration Building from 
7 to 8:30 p.m. today, Wednesday 
and next Monday. 
At the first two meetings, par­ticipants will learn a combination of skills for controlling troublesome anxiety, including techniques for inducing physical and mental re­laxation. The third session will concentrate on applying these skills ta-specific problem situations chosen by participants, such as taking a test or giving a speech. 
For further information or reg­istration, call the Counseling Cen­ter at 1717. 
Pears defends 


security force 
[Continued from page 1] ident. Director of Security Arthur Pears stated that patrols in such high risk areas are made every twenty minutes. "But you can't go out at night and look into a dark field," Pears said, "it's too dark. You can't see from a light area into the dark area. Pears admitted that most cam­pus security officers have had no profesional training such as South Bend police officers receive, due to the great expense involved. In an interview that Pears granted to The Observer last year, he stated that Notre Dame security guards need not even take a minimum eight hour course required by law for security guards. Pears was reported to have said, though, that the University's secur­ity force is sufficient to handle most problems on campus. 
NEW IN SOUTH BEND 

COSIMO'S ~ HAIR DESIGNS 
FOR MEN & WOMEN 
COSIMO, ROSE & SUE ARE YOUR HAIR DESIGNERS 
for APPT. call 277-1875 Mon· Sat 8 to 6 
Next to the Distillel): 
failures in New York City in 1965 
and last summer, and the resultant 
interruption in communications 
services such as radio and televi­
sion. 
FCC commissioner Marglta White, who compiled the report, noted that important steps were taken to keep communications lines open after the 1965 blackout. But she added that more improvements are needed. 
The commission is responsible for ensuring that communications are maintained during emergen­cies. 
Mrs. White based her study on a questionnaire sent to the wire services, three television networks, four New York City radio stations and six common carriers that provide national and international telephone service. 
The headquarters of the two major wire services and commer­cial television networks are located in New York. 
In the report, she said the news wire services, The Associated Press (AP) and United Press Inter­national (UPI), were important to the survey because they provide 
broadcasters with immediate 
reports on major events and emer­
gencies such as blackouts. 
Mrs. White noted that last 
summer's power failure interfered 
with the ability of the two wire 
services to dispatc:h news to broad­
cast stations. And she said servic:e 
improvements were needed. 
The FCC report said the AP was able to resume operations after 26 minutes due to the modular design of its computer system and due to the availability of an emergency power source. 
At the time of the blackout, Associated Press President and General Manager Keith Fuller said that while the disruption in AP service was relatively brief, ste:ps would be taken to ensure that even so short a disruption would not be repeated even in another blackout. 
UPI was disrupted during most of the 25-hour blackout, except for minimal service, due to inadequate auxiliary power, the report added. 
The report noted that broadcast communications outlets provide a valuable service to the public in emergencies, and disruptions could present a hazard, particularly if a 





tFie liDrary 
mon. &tues. 
pabst &busch pi1chers mixed drinks 

7-12 
come watch the game with us 
the Budman is coming Wed. night watch for news later. 
PLANNER RECORDS New Releasei Sale! these LP'S only $4.~ ($7.~ &it)  
Steely Dan -Aia Ree1wood Mac­Rumours Unda Ronstadt -Simple Dreams Crosby Stills & Nash -CSN Kansas -Pbint of Know  These New LP' s are double albums: ELO-Out of the Blue Commodores -Uve !, $7.5  
Return Rod Stewart -Foot Loose and Fancy Free Chicago -Chicago XI Foreigner ­Foreigner Lynard Skynrd -Street Survivers America -Uve! Crosby and Nash -Uve! Yes -Going for the One Starcastle ­Citadel Blue Oyster Cult-Spectres John Denver -I Want to Uve  ELO -Out of the Blue, $8.50 Commodores-Uve! $8.50 Loggins and Messina -Finale $6.75 Santanna -Moonflowers $7.00 Best o1f Grate·ful Dead -$8.50 Neil Young -Decade.... NA  
Also available from Ranner Records: AU. older catalog LP's Blank Tape (Maxwell and TDK} Bulk Discounts 1 Stereo Componentss and TV's 1l Car Stereo (Pioneer and Jensen} Ranner Records, 322 Ranner .•.• Fhorie 2741. Hours: M-111 4-5, 6:30-9:00. Sun 2-4. On Campus Convienence -student checks accepted. Sale ends Tuesday Novermer 22. Prices do not indude Indiana Sales Tax.  

crisis should require the president to address the nation or activate the Emergency Broadcast System (EBS). 
Under the EBS system, certain broadcast stations are designated by the FCC to provide communica­tions to the public during emergen­cies while other stations halt their broadcasts. 

New York City is a primary origination point for networks to provide both normal and emergen­cy service programming to their affiliates throughout the United States. 
The FCC report noted that 7000 radio stations across the country receive EBS activation notices over their news wires. 
lady even mentioned to me felt like she was looking diamond in a catalog, ring style had "all of a fast-food restaurant. Diamond Import Company, no "brand name" diamonds. engagement diamond from us has been ini for you in precise language, and can be 
in loose form. Then you a beloved can select from range of available o;ettings, have a setting custom you. this way, you can be your ring is a 
newly-married couples stress quali-1'""""'~"''" of your individual tastes. 
One final thought: an ""~<ai<<O"I 
ring does not 
to feature a diamond. 
an emerald or sapphire? 
or precious topaz? 
even an exotic (but inexpensive) stone like a grossularite garnet? 
Again, your engagement ri should personify your individu tastes. Whether you prefer a traditional or contemporary setting ,gold or platinum, a diamond or an 
you should take the time to find the ring that suits your personalities. 
And that, ladies and gentlemen, you simply won't find in "name b r a n d ' ' r i n g s . $ 
If you're interested in exploring the many possibilities avilable in engagement rings, please feel free to contact me at Diamond Import Company. We're located in the Lobby of the St. Joseph Bank Building in downtown South Bend and our telephone number 287-1427. 
Next week, for those with a for the scientific, a look 
Next week, for those with a for the scientific, a look inside inside literally) your diamond. 
Thls is an advertisement 

with Special Guest Star ERIC CARMEN 
also appearing 
NETWORK SATURDAyI NOVEMBER 19I 8:00 p.M. NOTRE DAME A.C.C. 
All Seats Reserved: $7.00 and $6.00 Tickets on sale at: 
• 
Notre Dome A.C.C. Box Office • St. Joseph Bonk & Branches Sot. 9 to I • R1ver {i!Y Records 

• 
Student Umon Ticket OffiCe • Boog1e Records 

• 
Robertson·s-S.B & (omord Moll • Jusl for the Record 


\ 
Monday, November 14, 1977 
the observer 
... 




NSC to perform at St. Mary's 
\ 
Mark Weishaus [Cieomenes] and Kirk Wolfinger [Jailer] appear in 1977-78 National Shakespear Co. production of Winter's Tale tonight in O'Laughlin Auditorium. 
by Jerry Perez 
The National Shakespeare Com­pany's production of William Shakespeare's The Winter's Tale will he. presented tonight in St. Mary's O'Laughlin Auditorium at 8 p.m. 
Admittedly one of the play­wright's less renowned efforts, The Winter's Tale nevertheless contin­ues to intrigue NSC audiences with its fairy tale-like misture of fantasy and romance. 
Michelle Quinn, co-chairman for the event, commented, "Although the National Shakespeare Com­pany's repertoire this season also includes a modern version of As You Like It and Othello, we chose The Winter's Tale because it is a beautiful and very entertaining play which has traditionally receiv­ed little exposure." According to Quinn, the drama, with its "aggre­gation of jealous kings, enchanted statues and a banished princess,'' lies somewhere between the realms of mythology and folklore. 
The main action of the play involves the jealous Leontes, king of Sicilia, who suspects an affair between his wife Hermoine and his comrade, the king of Bohemia. Driven by venbeance, Leontes plots the murder of his friend and imprisons his wife. While in jail, Hermoine gives birth to a baby girl who is rejected by her father and 
· sent away to the fields of Bohemia to be reared by a poor shepherd. 
Sixteen years later, a series of coincidences bring the lost prin­cess, Perdita, home to her penitent father. Despite a scenario of revenge and destruction in Sicilia, Quinn assures us that "no play by Shakespeare has a happier ending." 
Under the direction of Philip Meister, the National Shakespeare Company claims to be one of America's oldest and most respec­ted classical touring organizations. Celebrating its 15th anniversary this year, NSC (a non-profit organi­zation has performed for audiences of 250,000 each season in colleges, universities and high schools throughout the United States and 
Canada.  
The  12  member  cast  of  The  
Winter's  Tale  includes  several  
graduates  of  university  theatre  

programs and ranges from veter­ans of military service to a graduate in history who ultimately forsook a law career for the theatre. Also included are actors and actresses whose experiences span roles in film, summer stock and off-Broad­way productions. 
The National Shakespeare Com­pany is represented exclusively by NSC Productions, The Cubiculo Performing Arts Center, and The NSC Conservatory at 414 West 51 Street, New York, NY 10019. 
Notre Dame Cultural Arts Com­mission's Da11ce and Drama Series is sponsoring tonight's perfor­mance. Tickets can be reserved by calling the O'Laughlin box-office but will also be available at the door. All seats are $1.50. 
gets 
~r~
Jl~l up... 
2FOR t!!! 
Tomorrow Ntght SENIOR BAR 
NOTICES 
Will do typing. Neat. Accurate. Hours, 9-6. Call: 287-5162. 
Typing. Reasonable rates. Call 8051. 
Anyone wishing to vote in Indiana's May election should call Moat 4-4001. 
Interested in updating your understand­ing of the Christian faith and Catholic tradition? Considering the possibility of becoming a Catholic? For more informa­tion drop by the Campus Ministry office in the Memorial Library or in Badin Hall, or call 6536 or 3820. 
EXPERIENCED TYPIST. For more !nformation, please call 272-2819. 
Overeaters Anonymous starting group meetings on campus -call 289-6021. 
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND Student loans, $20-$150 with one day wait. One percent interest. Due in 30 days, LaFortune basement. M-F, 11:15­12:15. 
We need a band! Do you have a band? Need to practice some more or would you like to play for a good cause? The Notre Dame-St. Mary's Council for the Retard­ed is looking for a band to play at out monthly dances. Our November dance is next Wed., Nov. 16th, and the time is 
7:30 till 10:?? PM. The Logan kids love live music, so if you'd be interested in playing for us please give us a call: Jeanne Conboy 284-4391 or Art Koebel 287-7509. 
Wine and Cheese party tickets now on sale at the S. U. ticket office. All the wine and cheese you can handle . -ONLY 
$l.O.. LOST AND FOUND 
FOUND: Calculator before break. Call to identify 8557. 
FOUND: Glasses with black case at Library circle. To claim call Tom 233-8288. 
LOST: 2 gold rings left in the Rock's gymnastics room -one with bluer star sapphire and the other with initials: GDM. If found, please call me-7439. 
LOST: watch between North Dining Hall and Stepan. Call 287-8082. FOR SALE 
USC-UCLA sportwear for sale. Come and browse 326 Morr. Ask for Kevin, 3587. 
Camaro -1974. Air conditioning, red, 24,000 miles. Showroom condition. 277-4056. 
Stereo speakers: JBL-LI6 speakers. Natural oak finish. 277-4056. 
Wanted: 3 riders to Bristol, Va. leaving November 21. Share money and driving. Call Don at 1702. 
River City records is Northern Indiana's largest and most complete record store! located just three miles north of ND­SMC on US 31. River City Records has over 8,000 records and tapes to choose from. NO and SMC checks accepted. Open until 10:00 Thursday, Friday, and Saturday; noon to 8:00 Sundays. 
FOR RENT 
Five room house for rent. Central heating and gas within walking distance. 233-6438. 
Apartment: Furnished, 2bedroom -$185 -Inquire at Louies after 6. 
WANTED 
Need GA Air Force Tickets for parents wishing to see NO football game. Will pay$$$. 
Call1478 Ask for Joe 
Needed: student or GA tickets to Air Force. Call Jan 4-4184. 
Wanted: Air Force tixs. Student or GA. Will pay$$ as opposed to ....Call M.P. 
6841. 
Wanted: Ride to Boston for thanksgiving braek. Will share driving and expenses. Call Tony at 1436. 
Seek ride to Allentown PA or vicinity for thanksgiving. Kate, 7813. 
Need riders to Florida for thanksgiving. 4-4300. 
Will trade one season bleacher ticket and $$$and coors(or will buy with no trade) one excellent padded basketball season ticket. Preferably section 1. 233-8855. 
Help my·two little sisiters see their first ND football game. Sell me two GA Air Force tickets. Call Dave at 3493 anytime. 
Help, I need two Air Force tickets, either GA or student, please call Pete at 8518 anvtime. 
TYPIST WANTED: Fulltime to typeset display advetising, Monday and Wed­nesday through Saturday afternoons and evenings. Hourly pay. Experience helpful but not necessary. Apply in person at :The Penny Saver, 2102 S. -Michi_gan St., South Bend, 288-1411 .. • 
Two need ride to Chicago on Nov. 19. Call6326. 
Need GA or student tix for Air Force. Call Ed, 3708. 
Need ride to Long Island for thanksgiv­ing. Will share driving and expenses. Call Sue. 8050. 
Need six Air Force tix. Beth, 272-2340. 
Need ride to Jersey. Can leave Nov. 21. Robert, 1145. Wanted: 2GA tix for'sat. Call Barb 6850. 
I need 4 GA tix for Air Force. If you can help, Call Russ at 8772. 

CLASSIFIED ADS 
PERSONALS
NEED 3 student tickets for Air Force. GET CREAMED: McSorley's is good for Call Kathy at 5355. you. McSorely's Cream Ale, Senior Bar. Tuesday nile, 2-1.
Jeannie, sorry I missed you for the ticket.
Wanted: 2Student tickets for Air Force. 
Please call me at 1136. Bob.
Call Sandy (4-5346). 
Tina Happy Birthday!
If you have any printing, layout and or
Need 4 GA Air Force tickets, Kathy Steve
management experience and would like a
(4-4964). 
aprt time job on campus call campus 
Short mandatory meeting for all ski team
press 7047, 1-5 mon-fri; ask for Bill or
Need one student ticket for Air Force members Tues Nov. 15 -8:00 pm room
John. This is a paid position.
game. Call Suzy at 4-5361. 1-c LaFortune. Questions?? Call Muggs, 4-4365, Maggie, 4-4m, or Tom 234-0980
Need ride to Cleveland for thanksgiving.
Needed: 2 GA Air Force tickets. Joali, 
Call Kathy 1264.
1280. Charlie, ALL OBSERVER STAFF MEMBERS who We've got bubbles. $10,000 in 
Need ride to Philadelphia area for break. wish to have their pictures in the Dome unmarked bills and no one will get hurt. Can leave after classes on Monday Nov. be at the Observer office at 8 pm Will contact for drop-off site and time. 
21. Will share expenses. Denny, 8906. 
Tuesday, 11-15. This includes you, too No cops! St. Mary's.
Need 3 'GA Air Force tickets. Call Mary Warning -Two Russian double agentsJo ---6886. 
JJS -This is a second chance personal -were recently spotted on campus. 
smile, you'll go Network soon. Need two GA tickets for Air Force. Call Anne & Cece's sister ND,SMC JUNIOR CLASS CHRISTMAS Mark-1067. FORMAL DECEMBER 3 ........ .. 
AI, . 
You wouldn't want to miss the bliss of HELP! Need 2,4,or 6 GA Air Force tix Thanks for the best time ever. I think "Winter's Kiss". November 16-22 ticket for family. Jim, 6710 after 8. that you're pretty NEATO!! Maybe we sales start....so hurry and ask the one 
can work on some pretzels another time. dear to your heart! Further info, call Need 2 GA Air Force tickets. Cindy, Magic Lynne 4476, Kathy 5111, Marnie 2-6976. 8037. 
EXPERIENCED MINSTRELS FOR HIRE HE FOUGHT AT THE ALAMO Need 4 GA Air Force tickets. Call Brian Serenading a specialty. Also, custom HE TAMED THE WILD WEST 272-5843. songwriti ng. Call Ringo and Jester. HE WON WW II ALMOST SINGLE 
• 8243. HANDEDLY! RIDERS: Looking for riders on Nov. 23 VOTE JOHN WAYNE SENIOR CLASS heading south for Atlanta, via Louisville, Mark FELLOW. Nashville, Chattanooga. Call Karen or Laura can't become an honorable 
Bill 616-429-3507. buddie until she makes our little buddies The power of the blue moon is not to be 
into big buddies. underestimated. Need 4 GA Air Force tickets. Call a 3 North Buddie Lisa...6886Need ride to Wash. DC for Why is Chrissy Twist afraid? Thanksgiving for two. Can leave anytime Geez! The kid from Carroll sure drank after classes Monday. Call Jim 8906 or himself into oblivion on his birthday. 1012 Flanner • I heard I got a Frances 6907. That's the way to keep up the 3.7! Sure. technical...If you think about it the note 
Happy belated birthday from Flash, T.S. didn't make sense. I wonder if your mom Ride needed over thanksgiving braek to Easy Ed, Dutch, Hoagie, and the rest of would like the picture.xenia-Springfield-Dayton area of Ohio. the Carroll gang. Your anonymous admirer 
Can leave Wednesday. Am willing to share expenses. Galt Joe Meninolat, May 19, breakfast of Champions with Diane Kluck-a 7735(6(. Vonnegut. Menu: Harmoniums,. May your adidas keep running and your sweats never stretch out. Happy 20th. 
Need oneGA Air Force ticket. Call Mary Do a number with Cheech and Chong Love, Slats, Leggs, and Roma 4786. Dec. 3rd at Stepan Canter. Tickets 3.75 at ticket office now. Dear Wasted: Senior: desperately needs 2 GA tickets Offer to pay the cleaning bill and ask her 
for Air Force game. Call 4705 if there is Ice-nine: a little dab will do you! Dr. out again next weekend. no answer dial 4711 . Hoenikker. Vote Vonnegut. 1011 Flanner 
Need 2 GA Air Force tickets. Call Joe Pandoras books, 937 South Band Ava -Dear Airhead: 8927 or 8930. down from Corby's -is where you can sell Don't worry everyone blows it once in a books now and get credit toward used while.Need 2-4 GA Air Force tickets. Tom books next semester. Phone 233-2342. 1011 Fianner 3693. 
I 
t Marys students: Seats are still Dear G.W.: Desperately need ride to Jersey for available on the New York Area charter We know you didn't write this but give thsnksgiving. Will share expenses -Call flight; Dec. 22nd and Jan 16. Call Mary him a try anyway? 
Jack 67116. Laverty: 4319. 1011 Flanner 
Need 2-3 GA Air Force tix. Call Tim Deadline for all classified ads ls.5 pm, two Notice: The gentelman who lent me his 1036. days prior to publication. handkerchief at the skating party after 
the hockey game Sat. (11/12ffl). It's Need two GA tickets for the Air Force To Ray, Karen, and Mary: clean! If you want it back call Marylou game -tall Rich 6657. 1 apologize If that nasty personal 6845. 
slipped by me. And shame on you FYB. 
Dave _Kieer ­
Old Lady In 0.0. 
Skate much?! 
,. 
1\1, ·., ·~·. -..'.. ' \f>"" • -· .--t ~ "-', ••• • t <I ~ ~~ 
~~~:·:....-..;.•,-...~;;..;,-,..~ ••~ .~·:....' ;\••~••~••~...~••~..~ .;, ......~........ <"'.;·.~..;;..~~.• ~.••~ ••~ -~·.· ••~;·~-..,,~••-.• .;.;,._~;,: ••-••..~.,; ••~.•.-.~.·!*.-. ,".•·.·:,«~~ t~~·f,.•.... <.•... •.... ~ .......... ~~ ••••:. _,._~.·.:.·.:~-'' 
·--------------~-~--
Moncby, November 14, 19n
the observer 
Irish tame Clemson's Tigers, 21-17 
Heavens then alternated running back repeated the call on the next 
by Paul Stevenson 
duties to bring Notre Dame down to play, and this time the Irish signal Sports Editor the Clemson 35. caller broke the plain of the 
On the next play, Ferguson endzone to put Notre Dame ahead. 
GREENVILLE--Before a record crashed off left guard for a 30 yard Reeve's point from placement gave breaking crowd of 54,189 at Death gain. However, that yardage was the Irish a 21-17 edge. Valley, the Notre Dame football brought back due to an illegal In the final statistics, the Irish team rallied for 14 final period procedure call against the Irish. had 374 yards in total offense, points to turn back fifteenth ranked Two plays later, Ferguson rambled while the Tigers accumulated 345. Clemson, 21-17. for another 11 yards, but this play Clemson had 22 first downs, while 
The victory, the eighth of the was also called back, this time for a Notre Dame totaled 17. season for the Irish against only clipping infraction. Then, Irish Ferguson led all rushers with 75 one loss, keeps Notre Dame alive in Head Coach Dan Devine, showing yards in 13 carries. Heavens follow­their quest for a major bowl and a his disgust over the officiating, was ed his team mate with 70 yards in shot at the National Championship. called for unsportsmanlike con-23 attempts. Fuller paced the 
The Irish opened the scoring duct. The Irish were penalized Tigers with 65 yards in 16 carries, with a 56 yard drive which began another 15 yards because Devine while Callicutt added 60 yards in with only 5:49 left in the initial told the referee that he was "a the same number of attempts. quarter. Two key plays in the disgrace to college football.'' Montana connected on nine of 21 scoring march were a 22 yard aerial Thus, with second down and 31 passes for 172 yards. Meanwhile, strike to split end Kris Haines and at the Irish 44, Montana hit tight Fuller threw 13 of 20 for 185 yards, a ten yard gallop around the left end Ken MacAfee for a 27 yard while suffering one interception. side by Jerome Heavens. The gain. Ferguson picked up two more MacAfee snagged four catches for touchdown came on a five yard yards off left tackle, but then the 73 yards and Haines caught three 
burst by Heavens over right guard. 
Irish faced a fourth and two call at for 59. Dave Reeve added the conversion the Clemson 27. On the next play, Defensively, Joe Restic led the to give the Irish a 7-0 advantage. Montana connected with MacAfee . Irish with 14 tackles, ten of those 
Then, just into the start of the for a 16 yard advance to the Tiger being unassisted. Ross Browner 
second quarter, the Irish were on 11. compiled ll tackles, including four the move again. Starting at the Montana then snuck over from for negative yardage. Steve Heim­Clemson 49 via a Jim Browner the one yard line on the first play of kreiter notched 11 tack;es, while recovery of a Tiger fumble, the the final period to give the Irish Bob Golic added ten. Notre Dame offense drove to the their second touchdown of the The Irish overcame several
Joe Montana directed the Notre Dame offense to two fourth peril[)d snap and two incomplete passes, Clemson 12. But, after a fumbled 
touchdowns as the Irish overcame the Clemso111 Tigers, 21-17. [Photo the Irish signaled for Reeve. How­by John Calcutt] ever. the senior place kicker was sprint around left end by quarter­On the fourth down play, Fuller 
wide on his 32 yard field goal. back Steve Fuller. Ariri's conver­flowed left and pitched to his attempt. sion gave the Tigers a 10-7 lead. tailback, Lester Brown, who went That errant three-point try The Tigers charged back again wide and got a great block from the appeared to be a turning point in before the conclusion of the half, head linesman W.R. Cummings. the game. The crowd which had but on a third down play at the Cummings' shield enabled Brown been vociferous before the contest. twelve yard line, Ross Browner to elude Ted Burgmeier for the had settled down after the Irish pressured Fuller into a poor toss score. Ariri's extra point gave the 
took their 7-0 lead. If the Notre which was intercepted by Restic at Tigers a 17-7 edge with only three Dame offense had tallied again, the the Irish four. and one-half minutes elapsed in the game may have been entirely In the opening two periods in third quarter. different. Another score may have Clemson's Death Valley, the Tigers The Irish were then able to move 
quieted the fans as well as the compiled 213 yards in total offense the football, but turnovers and team. However, the missed three­compared to 101 for the Irish. The penalties kept the Irish off the point try gave the Fighting Tigers home team also registered 15 first scoreboard. However dismal it new life as they proceeded to downs, while the visiting northern­looked for the Irish it just was not march 67 yards down field. Obed ers only tallied seven. going to be one of those Death Ariri's field goal narrowed Notre Then, the second half appeared Valley days. The Tigers were Dame's lead to 7-3 as the Tigers as though it would start where the driving, but Ken Callicutt fumbled displayed that they were not going first half ended. After holding the right into the hands of Irish to be tamed easily. Irish after the second half kickoff, defensive tackle Mike Calhoun at 
Clemson held the Irish on their Clemson regained control of the the Notre Dame 16 yard line. Then, next possession. Then, after a Joe football at the Notre Dame 48. In the Irish were on the move. Vagus Res tic punt into the wind and a four six plays, the Tigers had driven to Ferguson slashed off right tackle yard return by Willie Jordan, the Irish two. for four yarus. Then, freshman Clemson had a first down at the With a fourth down and one at Mike Courey took a Montana pitch Irish 34. Six plays later, the Tigers the Notre Dame two, the Tigers and connected with Haines for a 24 reached paydirt on a ten-yard decided to go for the touchdown. yard advance. Ferguson and game. Reeve's point after brought second half setbacks, but still the Irish within three, 17-14. managed to salvage a victory. "We 
With 9:24 left in the contest, knew we just had to go out and Notre Dame launched their final execute better," Irish quarterback scoring march, thanks to a Calhoun Montana commented. "Thaf!_k God fumble recovery at midfield. we had two quarters to go." 
On the second play of the drive, Because of the Irish's 21-17 Montana dumped a screen pass to triumph. Notre Dame's record rises Ferguson, and the sophomore to 8-1. Meanwhile, the Tigers' speedster raced 36 yards down the ledger falls to 7-2-1. Next week, left sideline. Five plays later, Clemson travels to Columbia, Montana attempted a sneak from South Carolina to tackle the Game­the one which was marked for no cocks, while the Irish host the Air 
gain. The Pennsylvania quarter-Force Academy.
COllege Football Roundupl 
Midwest
East PeiUl. St. 441.Jemple 7 Michigan 40, Purdue 7 Pittsbutgh 52i Army 26 Nebraska 52, Kansas 7 
Ohio St. 35, Indiana 7 ~olgate 48, .Northeastern· 39 
Oklahoma 52, Colorado 14 South 
Southwest Alabama .36, Miami, Fla. 0 Arkansas 26, Texas A&M 20 Auburn 33, Georgia 14 Texas 44, TCU 14 
Kentuclc_y 14, Florida 7 Far West 
LSU27; .Miss. St. 24 Washington 28, S. Cal. lO
Marylan4 27, Richmond 24 Miss. 43, Tenn. 14 UCLA 48, Oregon St. 18 
Routed by Wisconsin, Irish leers remain winless 
to sharpen up mentally." Grauer, on what proved to be thefore-checking by the Badgers kept "You'd think that in an institu­by Gregory Solman The next night, the Irish didn't, prettiest goal of the night. Thethe action pretty well penned up in tion of this size, they'd be able toSports Writer ,wd the Badgers had themselves a Grauer to Suter to Johnsonthe Irish zone for the first three find a piece of glass or plywood,." 
sweep away from home. It was a combination exemplified theminutes, until the Badgers first commented Badger Coach Bob night when all the pent-up frustra­precision passing that gave themThe sign proudly displayed and goal, at 17:44. Scott Lecy took a Johnson. "lfelt bad for the fans 
roundly applauded nearing the end pass from Mark Johnson to notch tion the Irish had been accumula­the edge all weekend.
and I felt bad for the players." of the series might have given Irish the Badgers first goal. Don Fairholm was up to his ting for five games finally showed, Scott Lecy and MikeEavesput thehockey fans their first chance to The Irish had a good opportunity usual wizardry late in the second and shoving matches and cheap­icing on the cake. For Lecy, it wassmile all weekend. It read, "Hey, to equalize when Les Grauer drew a period when he decked out shots throughout the night by both his third goal of the series, forsides were the indicators. ThereBadgers, let's talk football." double minor penalty. However, opponents en route to trying to Eaves, the third of the game. At.vere twelve penalties doled out inHowever. the humor did little Ted Weltzin's interference with partially even up the score. After 18:04, finally, the Irish fans sawtoward easing the agony of Irish Badger goalie Julian Baretta just passing three defenders like a the first two periods alon something worth seeing. ShowingMeanwhile, all-time WisconsinCoach "Lefty" Smith or his hapless 14 seconds later took the steam out locomotive passes telephone poles, shades of elder brother Jack, Jeff·eading scorer Mike Eaves washockey team. who dropped their of what could have been a turning Fairholm was finally ridden off the Brownschidle notched the first goal 
sixth straight match in as many point for the Irish. Before puck before he could get a good oncentrating on scoring goals, and outings-for while Notre Dame fans Weltln's penalty was up, Jackson shot on goal. he shot for the hat trick and took of his young college career, on a 
hard slap shot from the point.
may have been talking football, was thrown in the sin-bin for Both teams had glorious llver the lead in yet another scoring Wisconsin fans were talking slashing, subtracting more power­opportunities to score, but neither _ 1tegory. For the Irish, it is on to Denver, hockey. The finely-tuned Badger play seconds from the Irish attack. could cash in. Ron Griffin hit the Eaves first goal was a fluke, as another of the many tough teams in players were, also, and they skated The period ended at 2-0 Wiscon­pipe, and Greg Meredith, from the netminder Lenny Moher parially the WCHA. Kevin Nugent should away from the ACC with 6-1 and sin when Mark Johnson scored his inside of the right face-off circle kicked out a slap shot, then lost be healed enough in his damaged
sight of it lying right below him.
5-1 road victories. sixth goal of the young season on had virtually an open net, but shoulder to skate. 
It was obvious from the outset assists from Scott Lecy and Bob couldn't get it by the glove of Eaves alertly swooped in for the kill and placed it high for the Badger For Badger Coach Bob Johnson, .
that the Irish would miss the Suter. Had it no been for a great Baretta. 
Marker. who last year brought Wisconsin a
services of injured Kevin "The save by John Peterson on a 3 on 2 Wisconsin looked toward the Stork" Nugent. In the first game, breakout, the period might have second night when Mcintosh anc' ·'I think it bounced off of the national champoinship, the games the Irish lacked scoring punch, and ended 3-0. Grauer added two more goals in th( _ Jf Lenny's head," Eaves were simply further insurance that were pushed around considerably, As the second period got under third period. commented after the game. "This he, too, would not fall victim to the also. The last game. Notre Dame's way, Geoff Collier scored what "It was our ]Jest game defe­~am is awfully young. Once their Badger fans, who just last week players weren't quite so intimida­would be half of the Irish goal sively all year,'' commented Ba ·efensemen get a little experience, forced football coach John Jardine ted ncar the boards, but still production last weekend. Collier ger Coach Johnson, "We played thev'll ·vin their share of games." to quit when they celebrated their 
couldn't find the back strings of the slid the puck to the left side of the full 60 minutes of defense tonigl Te· minutes later. it was Eaves teams fourth straight loss by tgain, this time on passes from pelting him and his team with
net. partially-screened Baretta, and the and it showed." 
In the initial -,-,unter, the Irish were within one. Indeed, the Irish had 22 shot; m1 Mark Johnson, and Welsh on the apples and toilet paper. Johnson, Badgers capiL li;".! , «.:vera! Irish Five minutes later, it was 4-1. goa!, compare<! to 44 for Wi~·:on­power play. That tied him with who's record now stands at 4-2, defensive lap~;-,_ _-:ore on Seott Lecy connected for his fifth sin.Johuson. as did Smith. t;. -:h Dave Lundeen's all-time Wisconsin seems both more assured of 
netmillder .John · -. who goal of the year. <tnd less than a commended the goal tt-ndinb ·. r goal scoring mark of 53 career retaining hif position, and infin­d<.·spit<-the scor:•, _-iaycd an mioute later, Jim S·~heid's slap Peterson, who might have g1vr a up t,;oals-but the night was young. itely more blessed with talent. ­While Julian Baretta was
,,utstanding game. c;hip eluded r,: i<'· _, ,' ~ grasp, dfter 12 goals, had he not been pl.-. ·ing Despite ':he losses of Craig Nor­showing Notre Dame that his goals"Peterson should hire a Scheid received a pass from Ron sharp hockey. 
wich, John Taft and, most recently,
lawyer," said C'oach Lefty Smith, Griffin. ''Prior to thi~ game"remarkc:d against average isn't simply a Mike Meeker to greener pastures,'·and sue his teammates for non­At 8:15 of the period. a piece of Peterson, '"'I felt we could just a' matter of strong team defense, the Johnson's team looked this week­Badger's were running up the
support." plexiglass broke to Baretta's right, easily have been 4-0 as 0-4. I still end as po~nt and threatening a
In any event, sloppy passing by causing a delay of over a half an think we have a good chance of score. Mark Johnson struck at contender as ~er.
the Irish coupled with strong hour. doi11g well this year. We just have, -52 from Bob Suter and Les 





