

.··"*·-· 


The Observer 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's Monday, September 19, 1977 Vol. XII, No. 15 
Committee, University delineate different J-board proposals 
Editor's note: Although the Observer has previously reported the fact that the University is proposing changes in the dulac student manual which alter the University disciplinary procedure, developments since that story appeared have necessitated a more thorough examination of both the University proposal and the just­released Student Government pro­posal. This story details those developments and differences between the two proposals. 
by Joan Fremeau Copy Editor 

The University has proposed to eliminate the University Judicial Board and students from the judicial process, thus making the Dean of Students the only option available to students whose cases have been referred to University jurisdiction. These points are ''non-negotiable''. according to James Roemer, dean of students. 
However, Student Government is proposing an alternative plan in which students may opt for some board, other than the Dean of Students, to hear their cases. A committee appointed by Dave Ben­der, student body president, has drafted revisions to the University rules and regulations as written in duLac. 
The committee was formed as a result of a suggestion by John Schneider, chairman of the Board of Trustees' subcommittee for stu­dent affairs, that Bender appoint such a group to look into du Lac revisions. 
Members of the Board of Trus­tees met Aug. 25 with administra­tors and representatives from cam­pus media and student government to announce ehanges in the Univer­sity disciplinary procedure. Schneider stated then that students would no longer serve in the judicial process. ''The trustees are non-negotiable on this point, and I agree with them 100 percent," Roemer stated. 
The University, Roemer said, reasoned that students did not perform well under the stress of hearing another student's case, and that problems of confidentiality arose with students hearing cases. 
According to Roemer, a commit­tee studying the J-board two years ago recommended the board be abolished. Furthermore, certain recent "celebrated cases" have shown that legal difficulties can result from the present disciplinary process. "We won't put ourselves in that position again," Roemer explained. 
The J-board "is an administra­tive inconvenience" for Roemer, according to one student govern­ment committeeman. ''The more complex the rules are, the more difficult they are to follow. This makes the University more liable to law suits," the spokesman said. 
As the judicial procedure stands now, a student whose case is referred to the University can choose to have his case heard by the Dean of Students, by a hearing officier appointed by the Dean, or by the University J-board .. The University plans to make the Dean of Students the only option available. Student government proposes there be some alternative to a hearing by the Dean. 
At the Aug. 2S meeting, it was asked if students could have any input in the selection of faculty and administrators to the Appeals Board, Roemer said. The admini­stration agreed that it would be possible. 
However, Roemer continued, it was also asked if students could have input in appointing members of the J-board. l After discussion, he stated, it was decided there would be no disciplinary board option. Roemer would hear all cases himself. 
Roemer and Bender will meet today to attempt to reach an agreement the concept of the ­University J-board. 
Accordipg to Roemer, the only flexibility in the disciplinary pro­cess is within the Appeals Board. 
Yet, J.P. Russell, HPC chair­man, stated "no one brought up the idea that there could be a J-board without students". Also, according to a spokesman on Bender's committee, the admini­stration has given no argument as to why there can be no form of J-Board. They have only offered arguments against having students server in the judicial process. 
StudentGovernmentFToposal Outlined 
The student government com­mittee feels it has proposed a "reasonable alternative" to having all disciplinary cases heard by the Dean of Students. 
The University's proposal calls for all violations of University rules and regulations to be at the disposition fo the Dean of Students and adds the rules and regulations "apply to all students on campus and off campus." 
Two important changes proposed 
by the Student Government com­
mittee are the removal of parietals 
and use of marijuana violations 
from the jurisdiction of the Univer­
sity. The committee proposed that ' 
these offenses except in serious 
[continued on page 4] The Senior Picnic-was held Friday afternoon and evening in and around the St. Mary's Clubhouse. Between 1000 and 1500 people attended, consuming 48 kegs of beer, 700 bratwursts, and nearly 3000 hot dogs. The picnic was termed "very, very successful" by Mary Lou Mulvihill, NO senior class vice-president. [photos by Leo Hansen] 


Quickie sideswiped, towed from the scene 
by Bill Delaney 
A car, driven by a seventeen year old Niles man, ran into the back of one of the Quickie buses while it was parked in front of Shula' s night club on U.S. 31last Friday night. No one was hurt. 
The Quickie, a shuttle bus ser­vice run by the Student Union to carry students to and from area bars, was taking on passengers when the red 1974 Monte Carlo sideswiped it at 45 or SO miles per hour, witnesses said. 
Larry Turner, a student Quickie worker who witnessed the mishap, said that the accident did extensive damage to the right side of the car, and put a hole about "the size of a golf ball" in the bus. Damage to the bus's cooling system, however, put the bus out of commission for 
Turner, who was not in the bus, said, "it sounded like when you hit an empty oil drum." 
The fifteen students who were boarding the bus at the time of the accident had to wait an hour for another bus, but the other two Quickies stayed on schedule, Tum er added. 
Tom Hartye, another Quickie worker who saw the accident, said, "it was the kid's girlfriend's father's car." He said the driver was supposed to be heading straight home, and he wasn't. 
Hartye said that, as a result of the accident, the driver was in big trouble. "He was talking about heading for Florida", Hartye said. 
The bus driver called the police who ticketed the youth for losing control, Turner said. The car was driven away from the scene but the 


THINK ABOUT IT!: The Second City Review importuned and entertained a full house at O"t.aughlin Auditorium last night. The Chicago comedy group performed at St. Mary's for the third time. [photo. by john atlcutt] 
1 
j 
l 
---------~-----_,_--~-~-­
Monday, September 19, 197];
the observer 

On Campus Today _ __....,_. 
4 pm 
pm 
4:15 pm 4:30pm 
5';30 pm 
6:30pm 7 pm 7 pm 
7 pm 
7, 9:15, 11:3U pm 7 pm 
7,:15 pm 7:20pm 

organ recital, darlene catello, sponsored by music dept., crowley hall organ studio 
film, "the great thaw", kenneth clark, narrator, sponsored by bus. and econ. dept., carroll hall 
soccer match, nd vs. st. francis (pa), stephan field 
reilly lecture series, "electron photodetachment spectroscopy--structure and energetics of negative ions", by john brauman, stanford univ., sponsored by chem, dept., rm. 123 nieuwland 
meeting, nd circle k club, south dining hall faculty 
production night, scholastic office, Iafortune 
meeting, photo club, rm. 116 o'shag., dues collected 
organizational meeting, women's track & cross­country team, Iafortune theater 
tal~, fr theodore hesburgh, howard hall 
film, "straw dogs", sponsored py union of grad. historians, eng. aud. $1 ' 
meeting, intro. to nd photo club, all interested attend, membership limited, $5 dues collected 116 o'shag. ' 
meeting, celtic society, Iafortune ballroom 
duplicate bridge, ladies of nd, faculty and staff duplicate bridge, university club 
7:30 

talk, dick gregory, human rights activist, sponsored by suac, lib. aud. 
9-11 pm kevin quigley, nazz 

Original J-boards 'clumsy' 
(continued from page 3] 
in the dtsctplinarv process. 
The way the J-board is set up is 
explained in Du Lac. "The 
University Board shall be tripartite 
and composed of three students 
and three members of the faculty or 
administration, appointed in each 
instance by the Chairman of the 
Student Life Council from a panel 
of six students, six members of the 
faculty and six members of the 
administration appointed by the 
Student Life Council each spring." 
(Disciplinary Procedures ·2.c.) 
While the actual composition of the J-board has changed through­out its ten-year existence, its 
·powers and goals have remained the same. 
The actual effectiveness of the 
J-board has been questioned by 
some. The J-boards were "clum­
sy'' .at first, said McCarragher, but 
to a "certain extent" they fulfilled 
their goals, "they accomplished 
something." 
According to Riehle, it was hard 
to tell ifthe J-boards had met their goal ; because they wen so seldom used. Most students just choose to go to the Dean. Riehle explained that most of the cases the J-board heard were in relation to parietals violations. 
Faccenda stated that the J­boards "didn't fulfill their pur­pose." He went on to explain that they were not used except in cases where the student felt the rule broken was unfair and should be changed. Faccenda concluded that the students used the J-board as a form of politics. 

Burtchaell, who also felt the J-board did not work, stated the reason to be the lack of directness. He explained that it worked for about a year but then the students went back to being seen by the Dean because of the direct contact they could have with the Dean. Burtchaell estimated the entire number of cases heard by J-board aslS, in its 10 years of existence. 
Stanly Hauwerwas, a theology professor who was once a member 
Night Editor: Joe Bauer Asst. Night Editor: Rosemary Mills • layout Staff: Mike Culotta Editorial layout: Kevi~ Sweeney Features layout: Dave O'Keefe Sports layout: Paul Stevenson Typists; Mark Rust, Ann Giere, Suzy Plavac, Leigh 
Tunaken · Night Controller: Mardi Nevin Day Editor: Mike Lewis, 
Kathy Connelly Copy Reader: Phil Cakley Ad Layout: Rob Civitello, John) 
O'Connell 
.,~ 

of the University Appeals Board, 
which was created at the same time 
as the J-board for a similar 
purpose, had a different idea of the 
system .. The Appeals board con­
sists of one student, one faculty 
member and one administrator, 
appointed each spring by the 
Student Life Council. 
Hauwerwas felt that this board 
was "conducted fairly and its 
sincere wish was to be fair to the 
students." He explained the 
majority of the cases heard by the 
board as relating to assaults and 
thefts--violence crimes. 
He said there was relatively little sex and "dope" cases brought before the Board. He said it confirmed the fact that "Notre Dame is a city and there is every kind of crime committed." 
He also said that most cases involved students versus students rather than students versus the administration, which are the cases which make the newspaper head­lines. 
The J-boards are used very infrequently (twice since James Roemer has become Dean of Stu­dents), but the Appeals board, with its student representative, is used much more often. Hauwerwas estimated that in the three years he served on the Appeals Board they heard at least twenty cases. 
The1. h 

rts Eye 

[continued from page 12] has the ability to regain their prestige. 
The battle with the Rebels is over. Holding that as the turning point of the season would be disastrous. We played poorly and deserved to lose. Realizing that fact is the key. 
We have to realize our mistakes and correct them. Once they have been corrected, go out and prove that the preseason publicity the Irish received was legitimate. Whether the season is an uphill battle or a downhill slide will be revealed in the remaining weeks. 
The Observer Is publlsfted Mon­d•y through Frld•y except during eum •nd YKIItlon periods. Tl)eObserver Is publlsfted by the students of Notre D•me end S•lnt M•I"Y'• College. Subscriptions IINtY be purdl•sed for S20 per re•r CS 1 0 per semuterl from The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre D•me, lndl•n• 46556. SecDnd ctess post..• p•ld. Notre D•me, lndl•n•, 4US6. . The Observer Is • member of the Anocl•ted ~~~-All repro­dudlon riglltl.,. reserved. 
Ninth year of service 



Logan volunteers begin again 
by John Mahon 

Weekly volunteer services at the Logan Center for the Retarded were resumed this past Saturday by ND-SMC students. Approxi­mately 80 volunteers were on hand to begin the ninth year of ND-SMC student participation at Logan. 
All the students were very enthusiastic about the morning session held on Saturday. "It was a very fulfilling experience," said one volunteer. "The students get as much out of it as the kids, if not more", added another. Chairmen for the Logan Center operation are Art Kobel and Jeanne Conboy. 
Logan Center draws children from many facilities for the Satur­day recreation program. Some live at the South Bend Children's Hospital, while others are from nursing homes or private resi­dences. 
At a typical Saturday morning session, the children pair up with volunteers in the Logan gym, after which music is provided by Notre Dame students Tom Soma, Steve Dane, Jim Koterek, and Rich Stevenson. Soma said that they are "hand-motion type" songs, and all stress audience participation, ena­bling all participants to join in by dancing, clapping hands, or sing-
SMC to sponsor monthly charity 
by Mary Ellen Connelly 
St. Mary's Board of Government 
is presently working out the final 
details for a charity to be sponsored 
by the student body. 
"This gives students an oppor­
tunity to have a charity which will 
be special in the hearts of St. 
Mary's students," stated Mary 
Rukavina, president. The idea for 
specific charity on the S. Mary's 
campus is one of Rukavina's pro­
posals from last year. ''As a 
Catholic College, we should have a 
charity," commented the pres­
ident. 
The board is presently reviewing charities with which the Sisters of Holy Cross are affiliated. By Oct. 22; the members hope to have the number of candidates limited to five or ten organizations. 
Each of the nominees will be 
explained to the student body. 
Shortly afterwards, an election will 
be held in the dining hall. When 
the specific charity is adopted, a 
fund raiser will be held monthly. 
An undetermined amount of 
money has been saved by the 
student government to kick off the 
Charity Drive. These funds were · 
obtained during the Orientation 
and Registration weeks, when 
members of the board donated 
their time in the bookstore. 
This year's charity will set a 
precedent for subsequent years. In 
the future, a new charity will be 
chosen each year. 
ing along. 
After the music session, every­one participates in an arts and crafts session, where they make some item which they can take home. A junior volunteer, Mike Wollohan, commented that it was important that the children get to keep their project, so that they could look at it and say, "I made that.'' From arts and crafts, the children and volunteers went either to the swimming pool or to the gym. 
Many projects and trips a1 e planned for this year, according to Conboy. Next Saturday, the group will make a trip to Mangus Farm, where they will participate in a hay-ride, cook-out, and softball game. Trips planned for later this year include going to <'lOme football game, visiting the Chicago Museum of Science and History, and a campout. 
While the older men at the Center are employed by Lo~an Industries [continued on page 4] 

Tony's Shoe Repair 
-Behind Badin Hall -1144 
Repair any leather goods Replace broken zippers Quick service-Reasonable Price Free Pen to all Shoe Repair Customers 

THIS.K 
IBA~dl 

MONDAY­ KEVIN QUIGLEY  
TUESDAY­ OPEN STAGE  
WEDNESDAY­ NOTRE DAME  
JAZZ BAND  
THURSDAY­ REX DELCAMP  
MIKE TSUBOT A  
& JIM HORA  
FRIDAY­ MATT FEENEY  
CARL CASAZZA  
& STEVE PODRY  

SATURDAY-JULES THOMPSON 
NO's own veteran of the gong show 
NO ADMISSION CHARGE 

' 
the observer 





Judicial-board grew out. of student unrest 
by Diane WUson 
Senior Staff Reporter 

''One of the most misunderstood and least know bodies in hall politics and student affairs is the Judicial Board. 
'The only time students are ever aware of its existence is when a scandalous case is publicized, and cess, after the student ha11 b~come subject to disciplinary action, he has one of three choices: to appear before the Dean, to appear before a hearing officer appointed by the Dean, or to appear before the J-board. 
Final decisions of any of these may be appealed to the Appeals Board within five school days after unrest, both here at ND and nationwide. The students felt they weren't getting a fair shake," Fr. Charles I. McCarragher went on to explain. McCarragher was vice­president for Student Affairs at the time the J-boards came into being. 
Fr. James L. Riehle, president for Student Affairs at the time the J-boards were formed, stated the handbook. "Students subject to disciplinary action may choose to be considered by the Dean of Students, a hearing officer appoint­ed by the Dean of Students, or by the University Board," )Disciplin­ary Procedures 2.a.). 
Students have had three choices by whom to be considered since the J-boards were first formed, stated Rules -and Regulations,. which Burtchaell helped to write, includes the goal of the J-board. "A student would challenge an offensive stu­dent more conscientiously, one hopes, than the average citizen would challenge a criminal." This goal gives students more power in regulation fellow students' actions. 
The idea behind the J-board was 

when students were away from their residences. 
''The criminals know the stu­
dents have moved in," said 
Molnar. "They (students) are easy 
targets... especially during the 
school day and during vacations." 
Students' schedules are easily 
determined, according to Sergeant 
Joel Wolvos of SBPD's Crime 
Prevention Unit. "This makes it 
easy for burglars to know when to 
enter a house." W olvos said. 
The total number of burglaries in 
South Bend has decreased since 
April, 1976, reported Molnar. This 
is mostly due to a fencing operation 
in which undercover police bought 
stolen goods, recovering over 
$900,000 in stolen property. The 
undercover operation, ending in 
December, 1976, resulted in the 
criminal implication of over 150 
individuals. 
Molnar and Wolvos agree that 
off-campus residences still provide 
targets for burglars, many of whom are juveniles. "We find most of our ~~r:~:~ are under 17," said 
Many thieves live in the Tract 10 
area, said Molnar. ''A good per­centage may live within walking 
distance of the house they
burglarized," he said. Installation of double-cylinder
dead-bolt locks are very effective in protecting property, said both 
officers. The lock is key-operated on both sides of a door, forcing a burglar to. enter and exit a house through a window. ''This is diffi­cult for a burglar if he has to carry a 
st~reo or a .television through a wtndow," sa1d Molnar. T~ secu~e ~ind~ws, Wol"!os sug­
gested nail-pms mserted m holes
r ' 
t4I 

.·, ............ 
Monday, September 19, 1977
the observer 


Committee's judicials proposals outlined 
[continued from p~e l] tions. "DuLac did not account for leaves out the J-board option. includes a clause stating ''the ing before an impartial body where cases, be hall violations handled by rector discretion in these cases," If a student chooses the J-board, students accused of civil or criminal any member may be challenged
the rector or the hall J-board. which is an important aspect of his case would be heard by five offenses occuring outside the Notre and replaced for good and defensi­
Therefore, the committee's pro-their job, the spokesman conti­faculty and administrators. These Dame community shall not be ble cause" are maintained by theposal includes a separate section on nued. five would include one chosen by liable to discriminatory action by student committee, but stricken by"residence hall rules". Often, The other changes proposed by the accused student, one chosen by the University unless proven guilty the University.these offenses are handled within the committee deal weith those the Dean of Students and three of such offenses." This proposal The University strikes thesethe halls already, a committee proposed by the administration chosen at random. They would be does not appear in the administra­statements and adds: the right tospokesman said. "The new section concerning judicial procedure regu­chosen from a panel of 12 appoint­tion's changes nor in the present 
free choice of undergraduate stu­

is s~nificant, however, because it lations. ed by the Student Government duLac. 
dent counsel "who may be presentoutlines exactly what would be The committee proposed that the board of Commisdioners. This at the time of the hearing beforeRights In DlsclpUnary Proceedingshandled within the residence hall, accused student be permitted to panel is choen in tm;n from one of the Dean of Students. The studentthe spokesman added. have his case heard by the Dean of 24 nominees indicated by the The University proposal also charged may be represented by

Until now, these offenses were Students or by the University Faculty Senate and vice president changed the heading of Section VI undergraduate student counsel. considered to be University viola-J-board...T~~..~!l.i":~~.~i.tY. ..~€?~i~i.'?!l for Student Affairs. ofthe University Rules and Regula­The Dean of Students at all timesHOCKEY FANS!·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·~=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=j~~ Both the University and Student tions in duLac to state "Rights in shall deal directly with ther student 
I 
Government proposals allow for an Disciplinary Proceedings''. charged and not through any third appeal as does the present du Bender's committee maintained parties."~1~1 Support the Irish ~~~~ Lac. the heading in the present du Lac The student proposal maintains According to the committee's which reads 'Student Rights in this statement.] NO HOCKEY BOOSTER CLUB proposal, ,the decision of the Dean Disciplinary Proceedings''. Also maintained in the student 
of Students or of the J-board may The University outlines rights for revision is the statement in the :::: Organizational meeting =·=· be appea,led to an Appeals board, both the administration and the present du Lac which gives the :::: Tuesday, Sept. 20 { consisting of three faculty and accused student, whereas the com­right to 'access to the names of the
~ ~ 
administrators chosen by the Presi­mittee maintained an outline of prospective witnesses and the right
::;: 7:30 at Ranner Pit ..
=~·.~~.=::. 

dent from a panel of ten. "The rights for the student. to confront them ooenlv at the
m1 Guest--Irish a»-captain Teny Fairholm :·:· right oflappeal shall not be waived The present statement in du Lac [contlaued on page 8] ~~ For mont info, call Chad 6981 } at any,' stage of the disciplinary is that the student be provided with procedjue", the proposal states. ''A clear statement of all types of Complaint dep't
:;~;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::!:::::::::::~:::~:::::::::::::::~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~:~: 
The: University's revision also actions or behavior that shall be makes' new grounds for appeal: considered a violation of University 
organized

"The i Appeal Board shall not rules, regulations, or good order in substitute its judgment for that of the residence hall," was changed by 11m SuUJvm the Dean of Students, except when to read in the University revision: 
it finds that his decision is clearly at 'A written statement of the rules A special complaint department variance with the good order of the and regulations of the University is now organizing within Ombuds­University community or the rights shall be published in the du Lac man Services so students' prob­of the student." · manual." lems can be worked on by the The present du Lac states that it The committee retained the Uni­proper offices, according to direct­
AIR FORCE 


ROTC 
must be shown that ''there has versity revision. or Robin Lavender. been an abuse of discretion or tha The rights outlined as "assis­Minor complaints are acted on by substantial new evidence has been tance in obtaining the testimony of the division of Special Projects and
The facts ofthe matter. 
found which, if proven, would alter witnesses necessary to the defense Services (SPS), while major dif­the decision." and relative to the evidence per­ficulties are brought to the atten­
With something as important as your future being discussed, it's very urgent that you get and understand all the facts. Air Force ROTC can be an important part of your future, and we'd like to take this opportunity to outline some of the main facts of that matter and invite you to look further Into the subject. 
The U.S. Air Force needs highly qualified dedicated officers. 
Both men and women. and we need people in all kinds of educational disciplines. Air Force ROTC offers 4-year, 3-year and 2-year scholarships with $100 monthly tax-free allowance, and contrary to what some people think, there is no military obligation during the first two years of the Air Force ROTC. 
Upon college graduation you'll receive a commission in the 
U.S. Air Force and the opportunity to compete for a challeng­ing job with advanced educational opportunities. 
Let's get together and discuss Air Force ROTC further. We'll give you all the facts and cle11r up the fictions. It could be one of the most important talks you've ever had with anyone. 
Contact: CAPTAIN DAN DAVIS NOTRE DAME, Bldg 5 Tel:283-6634 AirFooce ROTC 
The committee's proposal also tainin to the hearin " and "hear-tion of Student Body President 
Charter SOUTH BEND to NY­
at XMAS ROUND TRIP $92 DEPARTURE DEC. 22-10 PM RETURN JAN. 15-10 PM 
FULL PAYMENT BY CHECK OR MONEY ORDER WILL BE TAKEN IN LAFORTUNE LOBBY SEPT 21·28, 12·5 PM 
Dave Bender. 
Headed by Karen Dunegan, the SPS is a team of 13 to 18 Ombudsman members who work on minor students complaints. They receive the complaint through the regular Ombudsman line (6283) and take down all pertinent infor­mation in a log book. 
"The SPS members then do all the legwork, research the problem thoroughly, and report back to the student withing a week," Lavender explained. 
The complaint department began last April at the request of Bender. "I personally review the log once a week or more, depending on the volume of the complaints,'' Bender stated. 
"Our special projects people can handle minor problems directly. In a special situation, the problem will be brought to the attention of the 
assigned cabinet member or I will

********************************************************************* 
handle it personally," he added.

* ~ 
John Hagale, Ombudsman per­sonnel, stated that the SPS is not clearly defined as yet because

i* Are you interested in the field~~ E * 
personnel will not be selected until later this week. Besides the* * complaints duties, the SPS will
* ~ handle the annual Brainstorm con­test, which is held in the spring. A cash prize is awarded to the most

: NUCLEAR ENGINEERING? E 
constructive idea in this contest.* * Lavender stated that the com­
* * 
plaint department has not been

: ************************************************************* * used in sufficient quantity be 
effective. However Bender plans

*' * to 
to organize a publicity campaign to

* If you are then you should look into the To apply for one of these programs, you must * 
promote the service when per­

* Navy's Nuclear Officer Programs. The l'lavy have these qualifications: * 
sonnel is finalized, and after he

* operates 60 percent of this oountry's nuclear * 
mee1s with both Lavender and

* readors, and our training facilities are the Be a iunior or senior pursuing a degree in * 
Dumgan.

* finest in the world. Within the Nuclear Field, engineering, math, physics or hard science. * ! the Navy offers programs in the following ~ 
~Vorkers needed

* areas: Have a G.P.A. of 3.2 or better. * 
* *
* Be less than 27 years old, in good physical * at Logan Center**-health. * 
[continued from page 2]

* Operational Engineering -offers one year of * and play on a basketball team together, the younger often have
* graduate-level training in Nuclear Engineer-* 
no big event during the week other

* .mg. * than the Saturday recreation pro­gram. However, a high point
* Research-Development-involves pure R & D * 
during the year is the annual

* at the Navy's facilities in Arlington, Y_a. A Navy Officer Representative will be in * Christmas party, when the children
* South Bend on September 20, 21 and 22. To * are visited by Santa Claus and
! Nuclear Instructor -teaching position at our obtain further information or to schedule an ! given presents. Students interested in working at
* Nuclear A»wer School in Orlando, R. informal interview, call oolled 317-269-6197. * 
* * 
Logan Center should come to the Saturday sessions at 9 a.m.* * Conboy said that near the middle of* * the semester there is a greater
: : 
need for volunteers since some drop out.

* *
********************************************************************· 
-------..,-.----------­

Estate Planning Institute merits attention 
--~ ~ 
/i • 

Monday, September 19, i977 
the observer 

by Kate Flynn over simplifying the income tax are so many types of income. Ferguson maiWains that, despite avoid it, are jailed." Staff Reporter law. Their legislative compromise Congress tries to deal in equities, the complexity of tax legislation, Ferguson termed as impatient must involve complexity to be but in writing legislation, they the overall tax burden in the U.S. is the reaction of the Estate Planning 
Notre Dame's Estate Planning Institute, held last Thursday and Friday, merited special attention as Americans await President Jimmy Carter's proposal for tax simplifica­tion scheduled for announcement sometime in September. 
The two-day seminar in the Center for Continuing Education (CCE) attracted lawyers and CPA's from all over the country. 
M. Carr Ferguson, assistant attorney general in charge of the Taxation Division of the Depart­ment of Justice, commented on the upcoming tax reform proposal after delivery of his speech "Post Reform Act Uses of Trusts in Income Tax Planning" Friday afternoon in the CCE. 
While Ferguson currently works for the U.S. government, all state­ments and views were personal opinions and do not necessarily reflect official positions. Asked about his expectations for the proposed tax refore, Ferguson said, "I hope Mr. Carter, Congress and the people are not so over optimistic about what can be done to simplify the complexity of cur­rent taxation legislation. Congress always finds itself in disagreement 
SMC policy 
defines student, 


faculty rights 
by Molly Woulfe 
St. Mary's first academic hones­
ty policy has been drawn up to 
define the rights of both students 
and teachers involved in classroom 
cheating. Teachers and students 
commented on why the policy was 
drawn up. 
"It was not a question of 
anything coming up specifically, 
but that the very nature of cheating 
was misunderstood by many stu­
dents," explained Bro. Bernard 
Donahoe, chairman of the History 
Department. "I really haven't 
experienced much difficulty with 
intentional cheating,' he added. 
''An awful lot of students didn't 
know what the line was," agreed 
Charles Peltier, assistant professor 
of mathematics. "Our lack of one 
(policy) has led to various prob­
lems, including a teacher marking 
a student down without giving an 
excuse. The honesty policy is 
protection for all concerned." 
Both instructors agreed, how­
ever, that not all dishonesty is 
''innocent''. Donahoe remarked, 
"A student very often finds it the 
easiest way to avoid an unpleasant 
situation." 
"Generally, cheating comes in a 
situation where students feel they 
can't meet requirements for the 
grades they want--and if they don't 
pass, their lives are going down the 
drain," commented Peltier. 
"Plagiarism has been a problem and will continue-always-to be a problem in courses where papers are written. I know of one case in which we had some papers turned in straight out of a book--word-for­word," he added. 
Penalties for cheating and plagi­arism range from refusal of credit for an assignment to dismissal from the College. Students may appeal any accusation or disciplinary action. 
When asked about the policy, a junior replied, 'I'm insulted. I think we're all above crib notes now. I work hard for my grades." 
"I think it sounds fair," another junior offered. "I just hope it won't be necessary." 
A freshman responded, "Well, this means I'm going to have to be real careful--about my studying." 
The honesty policy can be found on pages 24-25 in the Student Handbook. Additional guidelines will be distributed soon during hall meetings. 
• . J;~t.. ,,...... '.J) 

equitable.'' must treat these equities as one of the lowest among industrial Institute's participants to such 
The proposed comprehensive tax generalities.'' nations. ideas as the taxation of capital reform program should be effective "When Mr. Carter held the ''The greatest percentage of gains like other types of income. within sixteen months. The Trea­current code up during his cam­income taxes in the U.S. is paid He expects that attitudes of hostil­sury Department's basic package is paign and said this is a mess, this voluntarily," said Ferguson. "Our ity will develop towards those expected to include a drastic sim­was a call to improve the tax secret asset is respect for the provisions which will increase taxes plification or elimination of 100 or system's equity. But the changes income tax law. The exception, of on businessmen, farmers and the more of the more than 1000 involved are complicated and course, is cases where those who upper middle class. sections of the Internal Revenue sometimes ambiguous. They need Code. study, thought and the widest 
According to most media discussion possible before adop­sources, the expected provisions tion," said Ferguson. 
_,.oiT":tuT~ a •• , H=~ ~ 
will also include a slashing of the He urged that the meetings top rate on personal income taxes to scheduled by Congressman Hal 
ORE •OCAT ·liT· SAT
SO percnet from 70 percent and a Allman, Head of the House Ways trimming of the bottom rate to 10 and Means Committee, be allowed percent from 14 percent. to continue as long as possible, in 

1MB I,II, III·ECFMG·FLEX·IQE 
Ta"es on capital, particularly light of all the groups which have 
NATL DENTAL BOARDS • NURSING BOARDS
corporate income and capital gains, competing interests in the pro­
Flexible Programs & Hours

will be restructured in ways that posed tax reform. will heavily tax some people, but The hearings will not begin until 
nere IS • differen&e!t! 
overall should spur investment. after Carter's announcement of the 
For Information Please Call:
Taxes on businesses and indivi­proposal. Ferguson went on to say duals combined will be cut by some that the sheer complexity of the 
Collect !~-aMPUIN 
$15 billion. The two major goals of Internal Revenue tax code has 
West lafayette EDUCATIONAL CENTER the tax reform proposal are gener­caused an industry to develop, 
463•7026 TEST PREPARATION 
. Bl . SPECIALISTS SINCE 1938
ally considered to encourage capi­made up of corporate lawyers and 
Servmg oo~gton, Indianapolis. South
tal spending and promote invest­accountants who must translate the 
Bend 1 For locations in other cities
ment in the economy. code. 
Outside N.Y. State Only CALL TOLL FREE: 800·223·1782
"The income tax," explained According to Ferguson, even 
Centers In MaJor US Cities Toronto, Puerto Rico and Lugano, Switzerland
Ferguson, "basically tried to mea­those professionals who have sure fairly a person's income to helped to shape the tax package measure fairly his ability to pay must constantly relearn the law to LSAT, VAT, and GRE taxes. But the problem is that there understand its complex structure. ClASSES NOW FORMING 
THE SPEED READING COURSE 
of Dr. Vearl .McBride world renowned educator and author will be presented in the South Bend area. There will be a series of FREE 1 hour lectures explaining the course, dates of classes and tuition. Increase your reading speed with~ greatly increased comprehension. . 
This course is for: 
*BUSINESS PEOPLE *THE STUDENT 
*PROFESSIONAL PEOPLE *THE GIFTED CHILD 
*TECHNICAL READER *THE REMEDIAL READER 
*LOW COMPREHENSION READER *THE SLOW READER 
Dr. McBride's Panoramic Reading has been featured on national TV and radio with students reading over many thousand words a minute. These lectures are desi·gned to inform you what Panoramic Reading can do for you. Panoramic Reading can save you hours a week at the same time increase your comprehension. Learn to read 3-10 times faster, and a greater understanding of what you read. The fastest readers in the world are taught by McBride Method of Panoramic Reading. 
Attend one of the following special FREE one hour lectures at the following time and places 


Howard Johnson's Motel 
U.S. Hwy 31 North 
Mon. Sept. 19 Two meetings, one at 6:30p.m. and again at 8:30p.m.Tues. Sept. 20 Two meetings, one at 6:30p.m. and again at 8:30p.m. Wed. Sept. 21 Two meetings, one at 6:30p.m. and again at 8:30p.m. TWO FINAL MEETINGS Thur. Sept. 22 Two meetings, one at 6:30p.m. and again at 8:30p.m. 
Presented by The NAtional RP.adinq Enrichment lnstitutP. A Non-Profit Orqanizatinn 
Attendance limited to 50 reople 
I 



From Thought To Action 
Too many times, the work of admin­istration and student committees goes unnoticed because it is the work of a committee. The very work has assumed the same connotations in the University community dialect that "bureaucracy" had inspired in national political rhetoric. 
Nevertheless, the seven months of work by the Committee to Evaluate Coeducation cannot and will not be overlooked.. The report of the committee stands as perhaps the most important document in shaping University policy for years to come. The sources of the report's strength are many. 
The committee was quick to point out problems and failures, but only with honestv and effectiveness. Academic counselling in the upperclasses was called ''uneven'' and existing social space termed "simply inadequate." 
Many of the committee's recommend­ations are simply articulations of ideas that most students feel should have been iqrplemented long ago: the building of an adequate and centrally located student 
seriousIy, foI ks !!!!!!!!!!!!~~!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 



No Parking 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiart buc hwaI d 
WASHINGTON--As the fall college 

term begins, faculty members in 
every part ofthe country are asking 
the same question: "Will I get a 
decent parking space at my school 
this year?" 
It is not generally known outside 

of academic circles, but most 
professors are more concerned with 
their place in the Reserved Faculty 
parking lot than they are with 
any of the educational problems 
they have to deal with during the 
school term. 
One of the reasons for this is that 

a faculty member's standing at his 
or her university is usually based 
on where the professor is assigned 
to park. . 
I heard of a tragic story that took place the other day at a leading Eastern university. A professor, I shall call him Rubloff, came back to school to discover that he had been assigned to Faculty Parking Lot B, which was 1,500 yards from the Administration Building. For five years, Rubloff had a space reserved fro him in Faculty Parking Lot A, which was only 100 yards from the Ad Building. He couldn't believe it, so he immediately demanded an appointment with the chancellor of the university. 
"I want to know why I've been placed in Parking Lot B when I've always parked in Lot A," Rubloff said. 
The chancellor said, "It was not my decision, Rubloff. As you know, we have a Faculty Parking Lot Committee, and they make all the assignments." 
"On the basis of my seniority, I have the right to keep my car in Parking Lot A." 
"That's true," the chancellor said, "But seniority no longer plays a role in parking lot assilznmP-nts." 
"That's ridiculous," -Rubloff said. "What other standard can be used?" 
The chancellor said weariJv. "We've had to change the criteria. It seems most of the women faculty · members found they had to park in Lot B. The Women's Faculty Caucus demanded equal parking privileges with the men. They said ; if they dido 't get it they o,yould sue the school. Wf! had no qboice but to change the system ~ assigning places. I'm sure you'JI be very happy in Parking Lot B The longer walk will be good for your health." 
"But why me? I_n<)tice Seagram is still in Parking UJl A and so is Teetoler. They gc;rt their tenure three years after I did." 
"If you want me to be fra,.lr with you, Rubloff, the committee dis­covered you hadn't written a scientific paper in several years. They felt you're more interested in writing letters to the New York Times than you are in furthering your academic research. There was also the question of the unfavorable book review you wrote on Professor Carstair's "Root Canal Wor!:: of the 14th Century." 
"So that's it," Rubloff shouted. "Carstairs is getting back at me for saying his book had no bite to it. I stand by my review." 
''And Carstairs stands by your p:!rking lot assignment." 
"Don't you realize what you're doing to my academic standing?" Rubloff asked. "When the stu­dents find out they have a professor relegated to Parking Lot B they'll 
Football Overreaction 
Deu Editor, 
I love N.D. football, and I'm sure that few people were more upset or depressed than I was at the sight of a possible national championship being lost last Saturday. But the most sickening part of this whole weekend was not the loss, but the effect of this defeat on the student body. It was as if the whole meaning of people's lives had disappeared with that national championship. Student reaction was that of a vicious child that has just been deprived of a toy-­infantile temper tantrums, directed at the nearest and most visible scapegoat, Dan Devine. People forgot that the loss was a team effort, and would not have occured if certain players hadn't malle some fundamental mistakes which had nothing to do with their coaching. 
Now, you cannot approve of some of Devine's coaching meth· ods, and I don't. But to express this disapproval through "Dump Devine" posters and Dan Devine farewell parties is really sickening. · People here have become so wrap· ped up in the "football mystique" that they forget that there are human beings and human feelings involved. They forget, or just don't ' care, what happens to Devine, or Devine's children, or his friends, . 
center, an increase in social space, and serious moves towards co-ed housing by the next school year. 
The implications of some of the recom­mendations are gigantic and would extend, as they are addressed, to the University community as a whole. The committee suggests a re-examination of the Univer­sity's stable enrollment policy. The report also charges the Administration with matching their ideological commitment to minority representation in the student body with similar financial commitment. 
Part of the problem with committees is that they are ''think'' groups rather that ''action'' groups, which causes their work to be thought about rather than acted on. But in this particular instance, swift action by Fr. Hesburgh and the Board of Trustees is important. The Commiittee to Evaluate Coeducation pressed the parameters of their jurisdiction in an effort to promote the quality of life for the people who live and work at Notre Dame. Now it's up to the people who run it. 
laugh me out of the classroom. Those kids can be cruel when they want to be." 
"Rubloff," said the chancellor, ''ifit were up to me you could have my reserved parking place which is covered and also up against the building. But I'm only the chan­cellor, and I cannot interfere in faculty parking matters. Your peers are the only ones who can decide what kind of sticker to put on your car.'' 
"Don't I have a right of appeal?" 
"It's too late for this term. Your place has been given to Dr. Mary Ogelthorpe." 
"But she's only an associate professor.'' "She also happens to be in charge of the Faculty Tow Truck Pool." 
wnen they're faced with such 
infantile nastiness. 
Football is fun, and it can help give spirit and cohesion to a campus. But when people make football the over-riding priority in their lives for five to six months out of a year, to the extent that they stop caring about other people's feelings, and even forget what they carne here for--an education--then maybe it's become a destructive force. To lose a game like this hurts, and hurts badly. But it's over now, and we've all got other things to do. It's time to forget Saturday, and prepare ourselves to support the team against Purdue. We may not end up #1, but we can have a very respectable season yet, if we don't destroy ourselves with recriminations over last Saturday's game. SUUIIDe Barty 
Parietals Confining 
Dear Editor, I am very much in agreement with you regarding the opinion column on the AI Hunter case. I myself have been subject to Notre Dame parietals for three years and they 'Continue to ·astonish me. These rules, as their name sug· gests, are intended to take the place of our parents while we are separated from them. I would, however. find it very disturbing if· my parents were to burden me with 1 a list of rules such as the ones the : 
*The Observer ~ 
.m independE.'nt student newspapE.'r SE.'rving notre dame and st. mary'., 

The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of either institution The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board Commentaries, opinions and letters are the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and letters are encouraged to promote the free expression of varying opinions on campus. 
EDITORIAL BOARD 

Mart1 Hogan Editor-in-Chief Martha Fanning Managing Editor Bob Brink Asst. Managing Ed. Kathy Mills Executive Editor Maureen Flynn Editorial Editor Barb Breitenstein Exec. News Editor jean Powlev St. Mary's Editor Katie Kerwin News Editor Barb Langhenry News Editor Paul Stevenson Sports Editor Pat CoiP Special Projects Ed. David O'Keefe Features Editor 
Monday, September 19, 1977 
DOONESBURY by Garry Trudeau 
/}f. /(g;NGER! u::v DAIN.ICV/ 
I /JE/111111)1/N ""''~" 
&XP/.1/NATICW! lf!sHfM'" 

University has compiled. Not only would these rules indicate a com­plete lack of trust on the part of my parents, but would also destroy my initiative to gain such a trust. When will I be truly able to realize if my actions are a result of fear of breaking the rules or of my own responsibility? But then, who needs to grow up? I can always do that after I graduate. 
Name Witheld By Request 


ln-nsbruck Supported 
Dear Editor: 
We are writing this letter to take issue with the article on the Innsbruck Program which appeared in the Thursday issue of The Observer. The article insinu­ates that the negative views ex­pressed were held by the majority of students who were in the lnnsbruck Program. In reality, however, only a small minority hold the negative opinions stated throughout the article, and those of us who favored the program are now placed in the position of having to defend it against an unfair and biased attack. 
Several misconceptions within the article need to be clarified. Contrary to what was written, the teachers were not asked to be more lenient with the students. They . were considerate of the varied language abilities within the pro­gram, but kept within the Notr_e Dame policies for testing . and grading. Students were not hap­hazardly excused from finals. The case cited failed to explain that the student was exempted from the final because the·exam would have had no bearing on the final grade, a practice which is familiar to Notre Dame students. 
The article also stated that the teachers didn't care. On the whole, the Innsbruck teachers went out of their way to get to know the students personally, both in and out of class. Disappointment was also expressed in the article because some classes were taught in English. Only two out of eight classes offered by the program were taught in English. In the remaining six courses, taught in German, the students were required to use their language skills in all facets of the course-­speaking, reading and writing. 
The coverage by Tbe Observer fails to emphasize the worthwhile points of a year abroad. Notre Dame stresses a well-rounded edu­cation for it's students, and this is achieved extensively by living, studying and traveling in Europe. The class schedule afforded us time to learn by experience. The cultural insights one gains is more mean­ingful and lasting than any book could be. 
We came; to Notre Dame for an education and feel our year abroad: was the most educational and worthwhile we've had to date. 
35 of 37 students In the 1976-19771nsbruck Program 


l I
He Simply 


Cannot 
Forget 
By. Fr. Bill Toohey 
[Editor's Note: With this column, Fr. Toohey begins bls sbib year as an Observer columnist.] 
Back at it again. School starts, and we soon forget the summer--with its lazy days, boring (or, if you are really lucky, exciting) jobs, cookouts, swimming. . . "beaching it." It was also the summer of the New York blackout; the phenomenal success of Stars Wan; thumbs down on the B-1, thumbs up on the neutron bomb; the capture of the "Son of Sam" killer; the death of Elvis; and, for good measure, a reminder once again that beauty and brains don't always mix (I refer to the news item that a poll of3500 teens competing for Miss National Teen-Ager showed their overwhelming choice for "America's greates American" is Anita Bryant). 
Kent State was in the news again this summer, too. It seems that a group of students felt it was inappropriate for the university to build a new gym on the site where four students were killed by the Ohio National Guard in 1970. Since there were other places the university could have built the gym, the students wondered (how nasty of them) whether the Kent State administrators weren't trying purposely to obliterate from memory the horror (embar­rassing to them) that was perpetrated on that spot years before. 
The students detect a sickness at Kent State that would rather forget than repent and learn a lesson from that history, so we are not doomed to repeat it. Arthur Krause is one person who will never forget. His daughter, Allison, was killed that May 4th afternoon; and he can't pass a day without thinking about it, and, now, of what Kent State is planning to do with that land watered with his daughter's blood. 
In an interview with Bob Greene of the Chicago Sun Times, Krause said: "I've been up to the university. I requested a meeting with the board of trustees to stop this horrendous thing. Basically, they classified my as a foreigner because I don't live in the state ofOhio. I said, 'Look, I was born in Ohio, my wife was born in Ohio, my children were born in Ohio, and my daughter was murdered in Ohio. Can't I have my sayS' But they had a meeting, and the parents weren't allowed to attend. The decision was to go ahead with the gym. 
"I can't figure out why they're doing it," 
Krause continued. "I've always thought 
that a university was a place where 
information about what took place in the 
past is used as a base for future learning. 
And now, they're trying to erase the 
memory of what happened completely. 
"I've got an awful lot of admiration for 
those students who were camping out on 
the site of the proposed gym. They've got 
an awful lot of guts. They may have a 
better sense of morality than they're given 
credit for. I know they're only kids; but I 
thank God for them. They're the only 
people who seem to have any sense of 
idealism about what happened at Kent 
State. 
''As soon as the news of this went out, 
my wife began to get hate calls. 'Why 
doesn't your Communist husband go back 
to Russia?' It happens each time Kent 
State gets in the news. We've had to learn 
to live with it. 
"You know something, the school never 
even informed me that my daughter was 
dead. The only communication we ever 
received from them was the refund of her 
tuition check. It came in the mail a few 
weeks after the National Guard shootings. 
The check was made out to 'Allison Beth 
Krause.' No cover letter. Just a check 
made out to my dead daughter. 
"I would rather never go back to Ohio 
again. There are too many memories there 
for me. But I go back. I have to go back. 
Allison is in my thoughts every day. She is 
always with me. I can't forget. I can never 
forget. 
Monday, September 19, 1977 
7
the observer 

A Deadication 
Tradition and The Grateful 
The first time I heard any of the Grateful Dead's new Terrapin Station, it came sliding and rocking out of Jensen triaxils in the back of my brother's Formula. Maybe it was the speakers or the car acoustics, but I frankly couldn't stand it. The song was "Passenger.'' 
"What the hell is this?" I said. "Sounds like Jefferson Airplane fused through Fleetwood Mac and headed for the AM hit list. I can't believe this--this just ain't the Dead.'' 
A week or so later I heard a complete side of the album on a friend's stereo. Again I was incredulous. "My God," I exclaimed, "this junk is ridiculous. I mean, where's the jamming? Where's Garcia's guitar? Maybe they forgot to lay down a couple tracks or something. It's just boring, repetitious ... uninteresting. There's nothing to it.'' I was stammering for some words to put what I was hearing into perspective. "This--this just isn't the Dead.'' 
But it is the Dead. 

My friend the Dead Head was adamant. "It just ain't the Dead, man." He was referring to the Dead's Terrapin Station. "First of all, they're going disco or something with some of that stuff, and there's no jamming on it.'' He, too, was fumbling for words. "Y'know what it is? They just don't play well on it man. They just don't play well. I mean, I heard 'em play them songs in concert and they were great. But they just don't perform 'em good on the album. Garcia don't even do any wailing--Did you hear him wail on any of them songs? I don't like to say it, but for the first time ever I have to say I really don't like this Dead album. It just ain't the Dead." 
But it is the Dead. The Dead Heads are a loosely organized, nationwide sect ofGrateful Dead followers. 
Some are officially Dead Heads, meaning they've sent a letter or a postcard to the Dead Head address given on some of the Dead's albums. Others are unofficial Dead Heads, with no such postcard affirmation to their credit. However, no other difference between the two exists. Dead Heads official and unofficial are fanatically dedicated to the music and meanderings of the Grateful Dead. Over the years since the Sixties, the relationship between the Dead and their unbudging fans has become legendary, like some huge family strung out, anonymous and multicolored, across an entire nation, all peculiarly united by a devotion. to a certain type of sound, a sophisticated yet spontaneous concert energy. A tradition has grown. 
My friend the Dead Head may have been disappointed with Terrapin Station, but that certainly didn't seem to weaken his allegiance to his band. He glowingly spoke of Christmas va<:ation DeAD PLANS. 
''I'm goin' to see 'em in San Francisco New Year's Eve," he said. "Me and three o' my buddies from home are gonna fly out there and check 'em out." This would be 
his eighth Dead concert, and quite an expensive one considering the flight fare for a two-way between Rhode Island and Frisco. I remarked this to my Rhode Island Dead Head friend and he laughed. 
"Hey man, it's the Dead.'' 

But what ofTerrapin Station'! It has the Dead Heads divided. The Dead are not the Dead, say the disappointed ones. The tradition of ten years has been violated. The Dead are selling out, not putting out. Garcia doesn't even wail ... 
Tradition can be dangerous sometimes, 
even tradition as young and sporadic as that of the Dead and the Heads. Tradition can fix the eyes and the mind to an unwavering focus. Instead of remaining tradition, it can soon become direction. And the once-friendly familiar soon becomes a wearying monotony. 
Tradition is the words not the speaker. Let the Speaker choose his words, while 
the followers rejoice in them and hold on to them. Listen. . 
Terrapin Station. It is very different Grateful Dead--but it is Grateful Dead. And, for the most part, it is good. The production is masterful, the sound as full and as rhythmically complex as ever. But for some questionable orchestration and a halfside of plodding Mickey Hart composi­tion, the album is consistently interesting. But it is different in some ways, and this 
to the Dead Head, may be a violation of tradition. Again--leave the Dead forge their own 
tradition. The first side is consistently good. "Estimated Prophet," perhaps the 
album's best piece, opens into an eerie melange of Dead funk with reggae under­currents. No Garcia wailing, just Bob Weir weaving a tasteful guitar rhythm around Keith Godchaux's synthesizer riffs--and 
. yes, the synthesizer sounds as natural as a loping Garcia solo, as do Tom Scott's efforts with sax and lyricon. And the chorus is right out of the Dead backyard: California prophet on the humin' shore California I'll be knockin' on the golden door "Dancin' In the Streets" admittedly sounds very disco. "Admittedly," I say, because it seems so awkward to mention disco music and the Grateful Dead in the same sentence. However disco it may sound, true Dead Heads recognize "Dancin' In the Streets" as an age-old concert standard. The version here presented is a polished one that incorpor­ates techniques common to more sophisti­cated Seventies disco and jazz-rock. The concert performance of the song is superior but that shall be taken up later. The Dead also offers a rhythmically busy treatment of the traditional "Samson & Delilah.~' Again, the concert performance ofthe song is superior, but even here it is Dead rollicking and spontaneous. "Passenger"--by Fleetwood-Starship-AM bullet now reconsidered as another earnest Dead rocker with Garcia slide--and "Sunrise"--Donna Godchaux sung/com­posed ballad that would be all the Dead Head rage if Garcia's inferior vocals were there--complete the better ofthe two sides. Side Two, labeled "Terrapin Station," is­less consistent. While "Lady With A Fan" and the title cut--both fresh, improv Deadblues reminiscent of mues for Allab­again demonstrate the instrumental and compositional talents of guitarist Jerry Garcia, the remainder of the side raises some doubts. The extensive use of orchertration is certainly irregular for the Dead--I can't think of anywhere else they've used it--and here, it is also banal and peculiarly pretensions against the drum maneuvers of composer Mickey Hart. Perhaps this is the part of the album that initially dismayed my friend the Dead Head. Certainly it is the album's weakest . part. But there's more to it than this. Though I have been called a Dead Head, and though I listen to and enjoy the Dead a great deal, I do not identify myself as a Dead Head. Somehow then. I feel a sort of 
%Observer 




Features 
Dead 
By Bryan Gruley 

responsibility to attend directly to those issues raised by my friend the Dead Head. Those were interesting remarks that he made. 
"Garcia don't even do any wailing .. .'' he said. 
Correct--in one way. Garcia doesn't do any of his usual high-register soloing, but he does do some very lucid and improvisa­tional work in the lower registers. This is not something totally different for him, though his compositions indicate that he's concerned more. with forging tradition, 
with creating art, than he is with keeping tradition intact. This is good--sometimes his ''wailing'' takes on an unusually familiar sound. 
He said,"... I heard 'em play them songs in concert and they were great. But they just don't perform 'em good on the album." 
Beautiful. The Dea,d Head says the Dead play their songs better on stage than in the studio. Brilliant. 
No insult intended, though--I only attempt to point out that this is fairly obvious to any Dead Head, surely. Seems sometimes these Dead Heads get so caught upo in their band they don't realize what they're saying. All of the Dead songs are better in concert, where the Dead can swing into those long, improvisational jams with Garcia wailing all bluesy and delicious over Weir/Lesh's subtly syncopated rhythms. In the face of my friend's remarks, I can ask only this: 
How many Dead songs are not better in concert? More than three or four? 
Lack of wailing, orchestration, the usage of synthesizer and horns, a very question­able second side. The Dead has violated tradition. 
So what? The Dead are obligated in no way by tradition. But-­
They aren't violating it anyway. They are forging it, bearing out new tradition through their music, as it should be. The tradition remains, becomes richer with Terrapin Station--. CONCLUSIONS THEN: To the Dead Heads on One Side: I can say no more. Listen. Forget tradition. Appreciate thing§ for what they are, not what you want them to be. Terrapin Station is a fine album, and surely it is the Dead. I'm waiting now to find my friend the Dead Head listening again and again, sheepishly taking back his condemnation. Perhaps a month... To the Dead Heads on the "Other: 
I know you're out there. Last week, as I was crossing the quad with Terrapin Station in one hand, a bearded, shirtless stranger yelled to me from his sunlounge position on the grass: 
"Hey man, that's an excellent album you got there." 
Be happy then. The toolbox has been pushed to the side--the Dead are now on their own with the music, jumping and dancing with tambourine and guitar. Now -they let the businesspeople have the production headaches, now they give us good music ... onward with the tradition, but first the music ... To the Others: 
Listen. 

r·---..8---.·:•e"':•Q•:..-S•:•ry•_•e•r-----M-o'"!'nd_a_y_,-S':""ep-t-em-be":"r-1-9-,w-19-7-7-•------------

Roemer says student committee inappropriate 
-------------~----­
[continued from page4) hearing, except in extraordinary circumstances as provided in the rules of the (present) University Judicial Board." 
The University's revision calls for "The right to confront wit­nesses openly before the Dean of Students. This does not prevent the Dean of Students from confi­dential inquiry of others regarding the past conduct of the student at the University." 
According to a committee spokes man. this means that witness affidavits do not have to be signed, and the accused student does not have to know who is takling against him. 
This also means. the spokesman eonrinued, that the Dean of Stu­dents at the first level of discipli­nary process, can review more than what is involved in the present offense. Because the University proposal does not prevent the Dean of Students from confidential in­quiry of others, he can look into the accused student's past on any matter at any time while he has been at the University and take action based on that matter, with­out the student's knowledge. 

The University proposal also strikes out the right "to be infor­med of the rationale for any imposed punishment along with a written opinion explaining the hearing board decision", "the right to a closed hearing if the defendant so requests", and "the right to secrecy in all matters related to the judicial process unless waived in writing or actions 
I ~---------------,
LET'S \ ; GET ACQUAINTED I I COUPON! -96C I 
1 one per customer 1
Iconey dog french fries large root beer I
1
thru Seot. 25 1977
L 1 
to the proposals, the six-man committee is not the appropriate 
body to discuss regulation changes,· Roemer said. 
1 'Dolfn Suds.. I 
I 
I We make a. lot of things better. I The charter for proposing Texas Burger • Charco Burger • Coney Dog • Tenderloin • I changes in University rules and procedure is assigned to the Stu­
Bar-B-Que • Fish Sandwiches . 
\ south bend ave. & edison I dent Life Council, according to the Dean. Roemer said the SLC will


~---------------' 


There's more to flying than just flying. Ask any Naval Flight Officer. 
by the accused." 
These statements are replaced 
with the right •'to be given a 
written explanation for disciplinary 
decisions" and "to confidentiality 
in all disciplinary matters." 
The student government com­mittee which wrote this proposal was a special drafting committee. 
The committee Schneider sug­gested that Bender appoint is made up of Fr. Dave Burrell, chairman of the Theology department; Jeanne Swartz, a South Bend lawyer; Torn Byrne, a senior Government major; Bro. Just Paczesny, vice president for Student Affairs; Roemer and Bender. The committee is meant to come up with a final proposal agreed upon by the administration and students. This proposal will be submitted to the Trustee's subcom­mitte for student affairs for appro­val before going to the full Board of Trustees for final approval. 
Roemer: committee not valid 
Roemer, however, does not be­lieve this committee valid. "If (Bender) wants to appoint a com­mittee of six to review this thing', he said, "I won't be uncooperative. I will meet with them and discuss anythmg they want to. But, as I've said all along, when it comes down 
The Naval Flight Officer is a vitally · f h N f'l' ht
Important part 0 t e avy 1g team. Although the pilot flies the plane. the Naval Flight Officer is the
I 
man who takes over when it's time to
~­
call the shots. 

1 
h. · 1 · It' 'II'
At lS 01sposa lS a mu lOll JOn dollar package of technology. Equip­ment that assists him in navigation. Helps him monitor electronic coun­termeasures. And enables him to per­
.

form such complex tactical functwns as tracking and guidance. Not many men can measure up to responsibilities like this. Or the train­· k ~ h k · 11 d 
rng it ta es to per ect t e S I San techniques required. 
That's why you have to be a col­lege man to even get started. And you have to prove yourself. again and 
· f h U ·1 
you've stretched your mind and your capacities to the limit. 
But few accomplishments in life are more worthwhile than winning the wings of a Naval Flight Officer. And the respect and responsibility that goes with it. 
A Navy officert Representitive will be in South Bend on Sept. 20, 21, and 22. To obtain further information or to schedule an 
informal interview, call collect 317-269-6197. 
appoint a three-man committee at their first meeting this year to discuss the proposed changes and make a proposal to the Trustees. "The proper place to get down to the nitty-gritty is in the SLC committee," he noted. 
When Schneider suggested to Bender to appoint a committee to study the revisions, Schneider "hoped that the Dean of Students would be on it." However, "Schneider did not limit the com­mittee to one appointed by the SLC," the committee spokesman said. 
It was only after Bender named his committee that "Roemer brought all this up about the SLC,'' the spokesman continued. 
On Oct. 21 a proposal will reviewed by the Board of Trustees' subcommittee on Student Affairs for approval before it is submitted to the Board on Oct. 22. 
"I will sit down with a three-man board appointed by the SLC and guided by recommendations by student government or any one else and work out a report for the SLC to consider," Roemer stated. 

Nostalgia used to revive southern Indiana town 
JEFFERSONVILLE, Ind. [API ­of Commerce executive. "They'reA few years ago , Anita Speechly not trying to change from the vacationed at Disney World in Victorian Era to Flach Gordon. 
Florida, and this southern Indiana They're trying to return the area to cornmuntiy hasn't been the same its original state, an old rivertown since. 
setting."

Disney World spent a lot of Within the last few years the money to make the new seem old. 
downtown merchants report fewer At the same time, Jeffersonville going out-of-business sales. The merchants were grabbling with the Clark County State Bank spentproblems of an aging downtown. 

about $1.2 million in 1976 on a new 

"They had a whole block of downtown bank. The bank is 
buildings like mine. I figured, why modern, but merchants said banks tear ours down when Disney World help draw persons into the bus­is building them up," Mrs. Speech­iness district. 
ly said. So the renovation cam­Citizens Bank will soon finish its 
paign began with her own down­own $500,000 restoration project.
town cafeteria and lounge, which Officials also plan to level an old now sports an exposed brick store hotel and drug store for a land­front-a Ia Disney. 
scaped parking lot. 

Other merchants began taking a Over the last few years, William closer look at their 100-year-old Finn has expanded his carpet and buildings. Their efforts are ap­linoleum business to cover almost 
parently paying off. 
half a block. Century-old, often "They're the merchants are vacant buildings were restored and capitalizing on nostalgia," said put to use. 

NY democratic voters to choose mayoral candidate 
'----a_g_a_1_n_._e_v_e_ry_s_t~_P_0_1_e_w_a_y_._n_t_~---------------------~ geting reduced his office's budget 
NEW YORK [AP) -Voters in the 
Democratic mayoral primary runoff 
choose today between Mario 
Cuomo, backed by Gov. Hugh Cary 
as the man to restore the city's 
fiscall credibility. and Edward I. 
Koch, a liberal congressman with 
conservative positions on finance 
and crime. 
The winner of the runoff be­
comes the favored candidate to 
succeed Mayor Abraham Beame, 
who was knocked out of the race 
when he finished third in the 
seven-way Democratic primary on 
Sept. 8. 
Cuomo, seen during the cam­paign as Carey's man to push Bearne out of the running, will appear on the ballot whether or not he wins the Democratic runoff. There ae four major parties in New York State -Democratic, Republi­can, Conservative and Liberal, and Cuomo is the Liberal Party nomi­nee. 
There were charges during the primary campaign that Cuomo was Carey's puppet but Carey hinted last week that he could drop his active support of Cuomo and support Koch, whose campaign has 
been gathering momentum, after 
the runoff.
Beame has given his support to 
Koch and former Congresswoman Bella Abzug, who ran fourth, endorsed Cuomo. State Sen. Roy Goodman, a liberal legislator who drafted the city's new charter, is
the Republican nominee for Mayor and Barry Farber, a radio inter­viewer, is the Conservative party candidate. 
Koch, 52, a lawyer and former 
city councilman, says his experi­
ence in Congress since 1968 quali­fies him as the best candidate. Cuomo, 44, a lawyer who refused a volatile black-white confrontation when the city wanted to put a 
low-income housing project in thei middle-class Forest Hills section of Queens, says he is "a conciliator and a mediator" and can bring the diverse groups of the city together. _ 
He says use of zero-based bud-
by 40 perc~nt and shows he can the city's $13 billion budget in check. Koch has advocated that the citys former 320,000 work force which Mayor Beame cut by 60,000 jobs to make up a budget deficit of over $1 bilion, be further reduced. That stand has cost him critical labor support. 
Koch promises that under his administration, the work force "will be smaller" -but more efficient, by eliminating "dead wood". 
His position alienated Albert Shanker, head of the big teacher's union. which has not endorsed any candidate. Another major munici­pal union leader Victor Gotbaurn, backs Cuomo. 
Cuomo says there are inefficien­cies in the city work force, but has not stated clearly his views on cuts. 
Capital punishment emerged as a major issue during the summer campaign and Koch supports it while Cuomo opposes it, saying "the electric chair cannot stop my 77-year old mother from being mugged." 
Koch confirmed reports that he 
told Rep. Herman Badillo, the 
nation's first Puerto Rican born 
congressman, that he would award 
three deputy mayor posts to a black, 
a Hispanic and a female. Cuomo 
called the promise "ancient poli­
tics". 
Badillo, one of the primary 
losers, endorsed Koch. 

Athletic facility open at SMC 
St. Mary's Angela Athletic Fa­
cility is now open to all SMC 
students and ND students accomp­
anied by a St. Mary's student. The 
facility is open 8 a.m. to 11 p.m. 
Monday through Friday, 9 a.m. to 
11 p.m. Saturday, and 1 to 11 p.m. 
on Sunday. 
Students may reserve courts by 
calling 5849. 
,,..,•·~.: J'.J~·...:-o.J 

--,-.-------------~--------~~------~----------~~----~--------------~------.---------.------------------------------------------­

The Notre Dame jazz Combo performed at the Nazz Saturday night [photo by john Calcutt] 
For senior fellow I 
I





Committee seeks chairman 1 1 
I 
by Jerry Perez 
The senior class officers are currently seeking a chairman to head the committee for selecting this year's Senior Fellow. 
The Senior Fellow Award is a university honor bestowed annually upon a significant contributor to the field of science, entertainment, literature, sports, news media or politics. 
Any senior wishing to apply for the position must present to the Office of Student Activities a one-page resume detailing his qualifications and ideas concerning the election of this year's Senior Fellow. 
Class Secretary Sue Bailey stressed that applicants should exhibit "reliability, enthusiasm 
and  some  experience  in  class  
affairs."  
Although  applications  for  the  

post were to be submitted by today, the deadline for resumes has been extended to Wednesday. 
Those simply wishing to serve as committee members may call or leave their names at the Office of Student Activities on the first floor of LaFortune. 
Bailey explained that the Senior Fellow Award originated as the Patriotism Award, which listed John F. Kennedy, J Edgar Hoover, and Vice-President Richard Nixon 
Dayan ordered attack on ship: Palestinians release documents 
WABINGTON [AP] -Palestinian 

sympathizesrs released three CIA 
documents yesterday which they 
said would Israeli Foreign Min.­
ister Moshe Dayan deliberately 
ordered an attack on a U.S. Navy 
ship during the 1967 Middle East 
War. 
The attack by Israeli planes and 

torpedo boars on the U.S. Navy 
research vessel Liberty killed 34 
Americans. 
However, The AssociaUd Press 

learned the CIA also has a staff 
summary of the Liberty intelligence 
date which concludes the Israelis 
did not learn the Liberty was an 
American ship until after the 
attack. 
The American Palestine Commit­

tee, described as "a nation-wide 
committee of Americans trying to 
help the Palestinians to get back 
into their homeland," said it would 
publish quotes from the three 
documents in an advertisement in 
today's editions of The New York 
Times. 
The publications coincided with Dayan's scheduled arrival in the United States for critical talks with President Carter and Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance. 
Dayan originally was to arrive in New York on Saturday, then fly to Washington. In an unexpected change, however, Dayan returned to Israel from Europe on Saturday to confer with Prime Minister Manaham Begin. He said he would arrive in Washington today as scheduled. 
A CIA spokesman, Dennis Be­rend, said the three documents obtained by the Palestinian group through the Freedom of Informa­tion Act contained "unevaluated information.'' 
He said the CIA could not judge "the possible merits and demerits of the material but said it ''receives and handles intelligence material of varying degrees of veracity, some of it unsubstantiated.'' 
Avi Pazner, a spokesman for the Israeli embassy in Washington, said the Palestinian group was trying to smear Israel over a "regrettable accident." He denied that Dayan deliberately ordered a 
U.S. ship attacked. 
The Liberty, strafed by jet air­craft and hit by torpedo boats, was heavily damaged. Israel apol­ogized, called the attack accidental and offered to pay compemsation to the families of the victims. 
According to one of the doc­uments based on information sup­plied by an unidentified source, Dayan, then the Israeli military commander, personally ordered the attack on the Liberty over the opposition of an Israeli general and an admiral. 
A second document suggested Israel knew the ship's identity at least six hours before the attack. The third has the Turkish general staff concluding the Israeli attack was carried out deliberately be­cause the ship was jamming Is­raeli military communications. 
Published reports at the time of the incident also suggested Israeli knowledge of the ship's identity. Newsweek magazine reported shortly after the attack that some 
U.S. officials believed Israel was aware of the Liberty's intellignece capability and attacked it in fear it had intercepted Israeli messa~es. 
The advertisement called on Americans to petition the U.S. government "to end its silence on the Liberty tragedy." 
The advertisement asked why the United States had "rewarded the attacker with billions of tax dollars if for 10 years you had · information indicating that the attack was delibertate." 
The separate intelligence mem­orandum obtained by the AP said that althouglrthe Liberty was some 200 feet longer than an Egyptian transport, the El Quesir, "it could easily be mistaken for the latter vessel by an overzealous pilot." 
The two ships have similar hulls and arrangements of the mast and stack, the memorandum said. 
NEW 
IN SOUTH BEND 
COSIMO'S HAIR DESIGNS 
FOR MEN & WOMEN 
COSIMO, ROSE & SUE AREYOUR HAIR DESIGNERS 
for APPT. call 277-1875 Mon-Sat 8 to 6 
Next to the Distillei] 
,.




:·BB:COME·A·C!otLE:GE.: 
• . CAMPUS DEALER :
• 

•• Sell Brand Name Stereo Components • : at lowest prices. High profits; •• • 
:No INVESTMENT REQUIRED. •••
• 

:For details, contact: • 
• FAD Components, Inc : 65 Passaic Ave .• P.O. Box 689 • • • • •• : Fairfield, New Jersey 07006 : Ilene Orlowsky 201-227-6884 : 
among its recipients. However, interest in an award of this type dwindled with the widespread col­legiate disillusionment of the sixties. 
The Senior Fellow Award itself began in 1969. Past recipients include University Chaplain Robert Griffin, Coach Ara Parseghian, Sen. Eugene McCarthy, Atty, Gen. William Ruckelshaus and Fr. Daniel Berrigan. 
Garry B. Trudeau, creator of "Doonesbury," accepted the award last year. 
Last year's nomination of Farrah Fawcett-Majors for the honor occasioned some confusion regard­ing the criteria for selecting the Senior Fellow. Some argued that 
the actress did not embody "the 
Notre Dame spirit," a term which 
Bailey deemed "ambiguous." It 
was finally decided that whatever 
"the Notre Dame spirit" was, 
Fawcett-Majors did not have it. 
The four class officers, along 
with Asst. Director of Student 
Activities John Reid, will select this 
year's chairman. According to 
Bailey, they will be seeking a 
student "enthusiastic enough to 
generate the needed input from the 
class." 
Bailey also remarked that the officers have been pleased with the success of senior activities thus far. She cited the senior class picnic at .SMC as a fine example of. class 
participation and co-operation. 

PI~ 
~· 
In Singing Gregorian Ch~nt Choir being formed beginning Sept 20 Tues 4-5 Room 124 Crowley Hall lnfoiTflation: 6211 
THE BIG Q is now in the neighborhoodTheNowPrintersM FAST PRINTING resumes term .papers ~yers announcements one block south of Wendy's on U.S. 31 5 minutes from campus 277-3355  
Professional Business Managers ••• The Navy Supply Corps Supplying the Navy with over t\m nullion different items es~tial to ~e operation of modern ships, missiles, aircraft and facilities is an enorrmus responsibility. Providing food, transportation, clothing and payroll services to the men and \mmen of the Navy is part of this obligation. The magnitude of Navy Supply Corps responsibilities has grown· to mighty proportions, global in scope and constantly expanding in pace with the Navy. Wherever the Navy is, you 'II fmd the Supply Corps-at industrial installations and test centers; with missile, underwater detection, space exploration and nuclear propulsion development teams; at land or air facilities in the continental United States or overseas; and with the Fleet at sea. When the oakleaf of the Supply Corps is added to your Navy uniform, you join approximately 4,200 Supply Corps officers dedicated to a vital mission of providing logistical support to the United States Naval Forces the \mrld over. A Navy Officer Representative will be in South Bend on September 20, 21 and 22·. To obtain further information or to schedule an informal interview, dill tolled 317-269-6197.  

Monday, September 19, 1977
10 the observer 

~ 
I 

I 'Lancergate' causes mixed press emotions 
I 
(AP] -The Soviet newspaper

I 
Pravda said Sunday that "Lancer­
gate" points up the "hypocrisy" of

t 
the Carter administration's new

I 
morality.

I 
But in Britain, the tabloids haveI been sympathetic towards the embattled Bert Lance in the face of
I 
what they describe as a "lynch

I 
mob".I Three months after the budget director's troubles first made U.S. headlines, the foreign press is beginning to take notice. In the United States, many major newspapers have not commented editorially on the Lance affair since the start of the Senate hearings, which did not end Saturday until after first editions of many Sunday newspapers had gone to press. In editorials which had appear­ed, however, a common theme continued to be the effect the controversy is having on the run­ning of the government. In Lance's home state, for example, the Atlanta Journal said the day after the hearings began that a distinction had to be made between the former Georgia bank­er's need to slap back the specific charges against him, and his need 'to win the larger battle of public opinion." "Whether it is wise to try to win that larger battle by attacking his critics in the Senate remains to be seen, for if he survives this he must still work with some of the same people on issues of reorganization and the budget.'' Newspapers around the world in recent days have begun to follow the Washington investigation closely. Those offering comment­cries concentrate less on Lance's 
CDC co-sponsors class meeting 
by Sue Ballman 
On Wednesday, Sept. 21, the senior class and the Career Development Center at St. Mary's will co-sponsor a senior class meeting. 
Karen O'Neil of the CDC \<'!It discuss career opportunities for women and provide seniors with information on how to use the center. In addition, whe will ex­plain how to use the CDC library and how to sign up for interviews. Cookies and punch will be served at the meeting. 
On Monday, Sept. 26, the CDC will hold an open house from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. At this time, seniors will be able to register for interviews. Following the open house, the first Interview Skills Workshop will be held from 4 to 6 p.m. 
"How to Prepare for and Enter the Liberal Arts Job Market" will be the topic presented to liberal arts students on Tuesday, Sept. 27 at 4:30. 
On Wednesda), Sept. 28 at 4:30, O'Neil will address seniors on the topic, ''Applying to Graduatt' or Professional Schools." 
Various alumni will explain "How to Inteniew--Advice from Successful Alumni" on Oct. 3 at 4:30. 

1.,. In the near future, O'Neil will also be speaking to senior classes in nursing and education concern­ing the job market in their respective fields. 

Observer names new night editors 
Leigh Tunakan and Steve Odland have been promoted to the position of Obtlerver Night Editors. Od­land, a sophomore accounting ma­jor from Denver, Colorado, has previously served as an Assistant Night Editor and is now the Night Editor on Tuesday night. Tunakan, a senior math major at St. Mary's, served as an Assistant NightEditor' and is currently employed as an OIMerver typist. She will work on· 
Mondfi»~~JlMt·•.,-;.4 ,•. M•N ..-·. V~'~A: 

financial affairs than on evaluating 
the political impact on President 
Carter. · 
Pravda, the Communist party 
paper, said Lance's problems have 
disrupted Carter's harmonious 
relationship with Congress and the 
press., but that the affair will 
prove "more dangerous" to the 
President in terms of public opi­
nion. 
What investigators have uncov­
ered is leading the public to have 
"grievous thoughts" about U.S. 
politics, the paper said. 
''The sharp change of mood is 
characteristic of America," Pravda 
said. "The country had been easily 
lured by high-flown phrases like 
'the new morality' but now the 
anger of Americans will be strongly 
evoked by this exposure of the 
hypocrisy behind such phrases.' 
Commenting on Lance's lifestyle a prominent Georgia banker, Pravda said he "liked to do things in style. If he bought an estate, it should cost half a million dollars, and if he arranged a dinner party, then it shouldn't be for fewer than 100 guests." 
The Argentine press also com­pared the Lance affair to a small­scale Watergate and speculated on whether the investigation would hurt Carter's political effective­ness. 
The business-oriented newspa­per aar1n said Saturday,: "The scandal is a stab in the heart of a principle that Carter built his popularity on -unquestioned mor­ality and probity. Thus Carter is handling the case badly, especially after he told Lance: 'Bert, I'm 

proud of you'." 
The British press is giving wide display to the Lance probe, and both the American press and the Senate have been accused in editorials of not exercising enough "discretion and responsiblilty". 
Some British newspapers ques­tioned the wisdom and propriety of publishing unsubstantiated allega­tions against senior U.S. officials, saying such reports could damage the American style of "open gov­vemment." 
Despite these misgivings, the British press generally agrees that President Carter find himself in a difficult position now that the Lance affair has swollen to such large proportions. 
The conservative Dally Tele­graph said in an editorial Saturday: 
"If it were true that Mr. Lance's 'effectiveness' has been destroyed, as Sen. Robert Byrd has alleged, not by proof of wrongdoing, but by the fact that allegations have been leveled against him, then that would indeed be a grave criticism of the present operation of open government." 
The Dally Express, also conserv­ative, praised Lance for not cower­ing under "ferocious campaigns of denigration" being directed by the "strange axis of snobs and radi­cals" in the eastern United States and the press. 
"There comes a point where the harm done by gloating and raucous inquisitions outweighs anything they actually find. The men of conspicuous virtue, in the press and in the Senate, take on some of the qualities of a lynch mob." 


The Civil Engineer Corps. BecauseVQU can build a career faster, building for the Navy. 
Wh;ItL'\'l'l" fit•ld of engi lll'l'l'i ng 101' nrchitL•t·t ure you'rL• nm\· ,.;turl.,·ing. You'll ,.;oonlJI' I"L'ndy fill· a n•,.;pon,.;ihlt· posit iPil. Tlwn•",.; o1w plan· \'!Ill 'rl' IikPh to find it fa,.;lL'I" thnn Your l'la,.;,.;matt•,.;: in the Nm·/s ('i \'i I Engineer ( 'w·p,; 
You'lljoin a select team of' professionnl,.; thnt plan. ciL•,.;ign. 
The liberal Guardian agreed that pursuit of Bert Lance shows more Lance has been a victim of circum­than chastened watchfulness. It stances. has been marked by cruelty and 
"America, after Watergate, is chop logic and frenzied neuroti­right to be on its guard and right to cism; and, whatever Mr. Lance's bite hard when scandal floats near fate, that should not be inevit­
the surface. But to many the able." 
I One Coupon Per Pizza I 
IANY FAMILy SIZE PIZZ~ I THICK OR THIN CRUST 
expires Sept. 26, 1977 

Regular Menu Price

I 
ALL MAJOR SPORTS ON 7FT T.V. 
Sunday Beer! 
BEER A~~D WINE 7 DAYS A WEEK 




t·onstruct. and lllaintain h .. u,;ing u,mplt•Xl'S. road,;. airfil'lds. \1 atprfr11nt fal'ilitil'>'. and uti lit it·>' \\orld\\'idt• not to nwntion dt•,.;alinnt ion plant,.; and undPI'.~l'<l .st rud 11n•,;. For <1 I'El · ollit'l'l'. it's a big opportunit.\. '1(, go plnl't•.s. and 1-(Pt plat'!"' '1!1 gain t lw t':\ pt·riL·nn• t hnt 
l'anlwlp f'ulfillthe l'L•quirt•lllt'nh lin· l't>gi,;tration as a l'rof'ps,.;ion;d Engine~·r 
lf'\·ou'rt· 110\\' in .\·our >'l'nior .\·l'al'. ynu'rl' l'ligihll' to apply. :\nd if\ou'rL• working toward .'·our Engint•t>r-in­'IJ·aining t'L•rtifil'alL'. allthl' hl'lll'l'. 

A Navy Officer Representative will be in South Bend on Sept. 20,21, and 22. To obtain further information or to schedule an informal interview call collect 
317-269-6197 ,•( i;',, . 
It's your life.Lead it. t6)Bea Naval Officer. ~~~~w 
·. 


..... , 

Monday, September 19, 1977 
the observer 11 





Financial problems may cut shuttle 
4 
l 
by Peggy McGuire were due to the large number of concerned about the shuttle's un­sophomore, said that the evening very beneficial to the social welfare 
students who rode the shuttle certain future. Robin Lavender, a and weekend service is essential. of the students. Its cancellation 
l 
"If the shuttle bus is disconinued, would create an unnecessary com­Financial problems may cause without paying the bus fare. Notre Dame senior who is doing a Notre Dame and St. Mary's will be plication in transportation."
the discontinuation of the Notre She also said that a campaign to study of the shuttle bus service, completely cut off. There would Laverty added, ''I don't even like
Dame-St. Mary's evening and halt violations of the bus fare · said, "Notre Dame really hasn't weekend shuttle bus service. system is very active on the St. done an)ihing to encourage stu­definitely be an increase in rape if to think about what might happen if 
the students were forced to walk. the shuttle would be discontinued.
Students and administrators from Mary's campus. Posters remind-dents to pay the fare. The shuttle both schools have decided to ing students to pay the 15 cent fare bus service operated at a $21,000 
Winter would be terrible; I would The exchange between the two continue the service until Nov. 26 have been placed around the loss last year. Right now, we're probably never go over, and now I schools would be ruined. St. to determine if stricter enforcement campus, and bus drivers have been looking into alternatives." go over every day. Relations Mary's students wouldn't be in­
between the two schools would be volved in activities on the Notreof the 15 cent bus fare would reminded to enforce payment ofthe Lavender refused to comment on ruined." Dame campus. It would be morealleviate the problem. fare. these possibilities, but she did 
Mary Laverty, director of Stu-Hank Widelski, Saturday night stress the need for a transporation Freshman Tony Frogameni a-than unfortunate.'' dent Activities at St. Mary's, said, shuttle bus driver, said that he has system between the two schools. greed. "I think the shuttle bus is "When the shuttle began oper-occasionally allowed students to "Right now, Notre Dame is ating at night, it was agre~d that ride the bus without paying the unconcerned because the majority the students would pay for the fare. of students using the weekend and 
Angela Facility causes 
service. The college and the He said that it "depended on the evening service are from St. university are committed to:provide person. If a couple gets on, and the Mary's," she asserted. "If that transportation for class purposes, only have 12 or 13 cents, I'll throw .service were discontinued, how­

SMC maintenance delays
but it is up to the students to pay in a couple cents. I can't see ever, there would be an increase in for this extra service.'' making someone walk if they don't rapes and attacks. These problems by Patty Thorn Dean of Student Affairs Dr. 
"If the students pay the 15 cent have a few cents." would occur on the dimly-lit back Kathleen Rice has requested that fare, the shuttle will continue," she One unidentified St. Mary's road which is on Notre Dame's The delay of maintenance work maintenance wait until October added. "Right now, the service is student, a passenger on Saturday property." slated to be done this summer on break to paint the study ciurells, operating under a 90 day trial night's shuttle, claimed that more Ted Horan, a freshman living in St. Mary's campus has been ~ccording to Springer, so that it period. It's up to the students to students are paying the fare this Alumni Hall, said, "If they cut off caused by the building of the new would not inconvenience students. decide if they want the shuttle." year. the shuttle bus, L wouldn't affect Angela Athletic Facility, as well as • The maintenance staff has yet to 
According to Jason Lindower, St. ''Last year, girls would get on all the Notre Dante guys that much, difficulties in getting materia.s, paift the exteriors of some campus Mary's Controller, the estimated the time unprepared to pay, and but the girls wou. ln't come over. according to Maintenance Director, buildings. Springer said that the cost of the shuttle is between they'd let you on. This year, There'd be fewer ·~t. Mary's stu-Frank Springer. staff was waiting to paint Regina $75,000 and $90,000. St. Mary's everyone's paying because they dents coming to JOtre Dame to The aew recreational building, Hall until "the girls decide what and Notre Dame each pay slightly want to keep the shuttle going," visit or use the ]jJ. ,ry," wl .~ .vas dedicated last weekend, color thP.y want." This work will over $25,000 to fund the service she commented. One unidcutifiP -l St. Edward's re'iuired a series of minor repairs have tot. 'done before·the weather during class hours. Widelski also noted the improve-Hall resident sa "It wouldn't this summer. This prevented the gets wor!,~. 
Low revenue during student ment. "T:. rear, things are going affect me at al Tonight, we nine-man manitenance staff from At the moment, the staff is subsidized hours and OP.erational pretty gorv' The past two weeks, walked over here )t. Mary's) and doing such tasks as painting the finishing a caulking job on Me­losses during the 1976-77 school I've had about three times the beat the shuttle. I, would decrease study carrells in McCandless Hill!. Candless, which will prevent water year prompted the South Bend amount of fare I ever collected on a the numbr of St. 1ary's students McCandless was also to have a from ruining the concrete blocks. Transportation Company to de-Saturday night last year. I think going to Notre Dame, though. new roof put on before the students Maintenance, which does electri­mand a 24 percent increase from the studeu. are making a good They won't walk on that road returned to school. Delays in the cal, carpentry, and remodeling each school. effort to ke<". · '"'lis thing." because it isn't vc y well .it." arrival of the new type of materials work on campus, is also currently 
Laverty claimed that the losse;; Notre " a! students are less Diane Bogest, a St. Mary's necessary postponed the work until doing minor room repairs at the ...,..-------_..--.-the end of the summer. request of individual students. 
NOTICE ~~ . . -Research Assistant needed.------------------------------·~HELP TRICIA (4-5222) GET RIDE TO \
-Psychology d I
Any d~s1mng photos of Linda Ronstadt background preferred. 10-20 hours per LOUISVILLE 9-23 AND TWO MICHl-• • taken 1n concert Monday, Aug. 29 (color week. Hours varied to suit your GAN TICKETS. [ ~
I 
or black-white) please contact John at schedule. Hourly wage. Call George C asSl le adsI 8340 or 136 Zahm. 287-4785 after p.m. Wanted: 4 USC tickets. Will pay good I 
I Typing. Reasonable rates. Call8051. FRIENDS AT STAKE. DES, bucks. Call Jim at 1419. . -----~ PERATEL ED MICHIGAN STATE WANTED: 4GA tickets for Southern Cal.I Sewing repairs. Reasonable. Call 8051. TIX. PF \BLY STUDENT TIX. Will pay good bucks. Call1423, ask for Need four USC tix, preferably together. I I 
GOOD M STEVE 8337. Mike. Call 'rick 8688. Need ride to Bloomington, ln. (IU) this ------------Forsale-'72Fiat850Spider. Newengine 1 weekend (or any weekend). Call Vicki Wanted: y scout or other Desperately need tickets to Michigan Will trade coors and-or $$$$ for one and tires. Must sacrifice at $975 or best 6751. interesteo. Weblo leader. Call State and Southern Cal. Please call Michigan State ticket. Kevin 283-1582. offer. Call 272-5327. 1 1262I CONTACT LENS WEARERS. Save on 272-~~-_________ Marianne at . iDESPERATELYNEEDTWOTICKETS FLANNER FALL RECORD SALE: All 1 I brand name hard anbd soft lens supplies. Need studt Mich. game. Will PLEASE: I need four Michigan State FOR GEORGIA TECH 8774. $7.98 LP's only $4.99-Including new Send for free illustrated catalog. Contact pay$$. ca. _ tickets. Call Alicia 8117. -----------------releases by Chicago (Chicago xi), the 1
7 2397. 

Lens Supplies, Box 7453, Phoenix, Ari-I'll pay extra for good GA tix for Michigan Doobie Brothers (Livin' on the Fault zona 85011. WANTED: F ~MES -EXCITE, WANTED: Six GA tickets to USC. Call State-Joan 1280. Line), Fleetwood Mac (Rumors), Linda I
I 
MENT have 1 J do with the fact Jeanne at 4-4001. Rondstadt (Simple Dreams),I Interviewing and testing candidates to that 1need 2 M 1~1 11 St. tickets. Ed 'Need 2-4 GA tickets to Mich. State, Navy Heart )Heart)Magazine), GFoghat(Live!) I become commissioned officers in the Kitchen help, part time, hourly wage. ,or Georgia Tech games. Will pay top$. Styx Neil Young Steve Miller Band
3443

I 
United States Marine Corps-for an · Apply in person. Pinocchio's Pizza Call Pat 8377 or 8378. CSN, Yes, Supertramp, Eagles, Foreig: I appointment contact the selection team in WANTED: One f\ student football Parlor. Georgetown Shopping Center. ner, Hall and Oates, Dan Fogleburg,LaFotune September 2Q-23, 9:00 AM to ticket. Will pay $$, Jney( or laughs. Only four minutes away. Ask for Jackie. Need ride to Buffalo on Sept. 23. Call Bill Rush, Alan Parsons Project, Steve Win-II 4:00 PM. Call Mary 1313. 6770. · wood and Roger Daltry. All o.f these LP's ________ ·-----Part time waitress must be 21. Apply in are only $4.99 ea (except for Winwood-II MEN;Panetrata deeper and carry a Need one student or GA ticket to Air person to Pinocchio's Pizza Parlor. TWO NEED RIDE TO DAYTON AREA $3.99). All $6.981ist LP's are sale priced-heavier load.....fly the marine A-6 In-Force game. Will pay good $$$. Call Georgetown Shopping Center. Only four DESPERATELY WEEKEND OF SEPT. only 4.25. Sale ends thursday ff-22-'77. II trudar All-Weather Attack-Bomber sao 82o7. minutes away. Ask for Jackie. 23-25. CALL TOM 8624 or DAVE 8303. Flanner Records, 322 Flanner. Phone the Marine Officer Selection team La 2741. 
1 

I 
I Fortune September 20-23, 9:00AM to NEED TWO TIX TO MICH. STATE. NEEDED DESPERATELY: 2 GA tickets MAKE A GIRL HAPPY! SELL MEI 4:110 PM. CALL RUSS AT 8772. ~~~i~~~k~~ State. Call Tom, 287-3987. r~~~R~~T~w~E~~ TOPJ~gHA~~g Personals I CHEAP SKATE. M-W-F 12-1 FREE Flth · h tf c 1·f · · 4 MICHIGAN STATE TICKETS. GREAT Campus Ministry West-offices ground 1
1 y nc aun rom a1orma requ1res 4 GA P d MONEY. CAROL 8983.
SKATE RENTAL. 75 SNACK BAR. GA tlx for USC. money no object$ Call ur ue Tix. Call 232-5926. In floor Badin--student operated 6:30­I Tim at 1605. evenings 288-6115. HELP: Desperately need 3 GA tickets to midnight. Study, socialize Sunday thru 1 Michigan State game for Seattle family. Thursday. I 
WANTED: Will trade four blondes for PLEASE HELP: Need three tickets for B 
4336
I LOST AND FOUND four USC or Mich. St. tix. Call Pat Georgia Tech. Call Judy 7375 or Nancy eth · TO A FRIEND: 272-5843. 7414. Thanks for the flowers and plant. They II FOUND: On sidewalk 1976 Holy Cross look really nlceln my room. Why don't I Preparatory class ring. Call Denise DESPERATELY NEED 2-6 MICH. WANTED: Tw rurdue tix. Call Bob youstopbyandseethem.I 4-5402. STATE TICKETS. CALL BOB 3301. 8330. For Sale Sketts I 
FOUND: Set of keys In Observer office. Two guys need ride to south Chicago-The Distillery Liquer Store has openings Envoy T.V. 16 in. Black and White with For agood time call Kathy 4088. I DID.1 Come to claim. Sept. 23. Call1720 or 7449. for part-time help. Must be 21 and clean inside antennae. $50.00. Call 21ff-936-1
-----------------cut. Apply at 1723 So. Bend Avenue. 4626. HAPPY MONDAY ANNIE* JENNI AND 
LOST: A round decorative pin between Wanted: One girl to share house. Call 9:30AM until10:00 PM. ANITA!!! WATCH OUT FOR SHARKS. II Walsh and Farley and the North Dining Frani 234-3730. Richelieu Banjo, 5 string Wisconsin1Hall. Contact Sheila at 422 Walsh. -----------------TWO PUf,, ~~ TIX. CALL 1057. made-by hand. Left hand picker a FLASH DELASH* I 
Need one ticket for any home game ---$200.00 steal w case. Call 21ff-936-4626. ....birthday cake outside of Corby's 
LOST: Pair of brown glasses in South except Navy. Call 'Mark 1609. Need o e ticket for Purdue game-Call Daytona, Ole Miss, Hockey games and II Dining Hall on ff-8-77. Call Kinney at 8789. Stella 10 gear bike-Columbus Alloy Blue Line Club, Physics and D.E.LWE,I 232-9140. Desperately need 2 Michigan State tubing. Excellent touring bike 241/2 lbs. Bruce Springsteen to Beach Boys.....mo-I 
I 
----------------tickets. Preferably GA. Will pay top$. ~eed ~1~lp Part Time. Must be willing to $200.00. Call 21g..936~4626. ments to remember. Happy 21st!! HopeI Call 8515 ask for Mark. "'Or~ weekendsand holidays. Prefer local you will always have happy memories. I Wanted ~tuf1ents but will consider others. Forum Harmon Kardon, Advent, lmpro Stereo Shrimp Desperately need two Purdue tickets. Need four Mich State tickets. Call Cl~ire · nama, 1 mile north of ND campus on System. Excellent receiver, speakers, I Call Mike 3119. 2119-6533 between 4 and 7. LS 31 north. Sea MR. Randazzo turntable. $400.110. Also Bauer Hockey If you think you are fast, come see if you
1---------------evenings or weekends 277-1371. sl<atesand CCM figure skates $25.110 can beat Joey Dwyer. ND-SMC SKI I Need two Southern Cal tlx. Beth NEED SIX SOUTHERN CAL TIX. aact. Caii21CJ-9J6.4626. TEAM meeting, Wednesday, 8PM, 272-2340. MARK 287·7051. Oh wow, would It ever be terrific If you room 1C LaFortune. I 
I 
1 had two Purdue tickets to get rid of. We SL-1500 Technics direct drive turntable GA's and STUD. for USC game. $$$$$. Two NO students need roomate to share need them if we are to ever see our w. cartridge. 8 mos. old. Mick 2743. I Mfck 2743. house. 233-8855 or 283-3228. long-lost brother in West Lafayette. Cal) ---------------­I 
Barb 7852 or John 3580. '73 Vega 2-door inspected-Black and1NEEDED: 1-4 tix for Army game. Gall WANTED: 2to4 USC tickets. Student or white. Call 234-5686 for more informa-I Marla 1318. GA. Will pay money! Suzy 5148. Is Notre Dame more exciting than Ohio tion. I 
State? Help four friends of mine decide. 
I 
wanted: Two tickets to Michigan State 4 Michigan State tickets should do the Used golf balls like new-$20.110 per 1110.I DESPERATELY NEED ROUNDTRIP game,eltherGAorStudenttlckets. Call job. Cai1Geoffat1083. Caii27NI783formorelnfo. I RIDE TO PURDUE FOR GAME. Mark 1436. I 
WILLING TO SHARE EXPENSES. CALL ---------WANTED: 1Q-20 GA tickets to anyu Corning ware electric perculators (coffee I JILL 6446. Wanted: 5 USC tickets. Call Paul at 1424. home game. Will pay any $$$. Call pots) 50 percent off. Call 6985. 
J

1212 or 1197. Ask for Bob. .Two handsome gentlemen need tickets Desperately need 4Georgia Tach tickets. 5ansui 7 receiver. Great shape. $225.00' . . 
• fllf.iunlue.game• .Gaii-J244..-...............................J:aU.JUl87Jt . . (?). 28ff-1829 after 7.
•-------..,...___'iiZriiiilii______________ ..._____ 
12 the observer Monday, September 19, 19n 


Fighting Irish out-battled by Rebels 
by Paul StevenSQD  and "Lookaway Dixieland," to fans  the ball when tackled. Brian  
Sports Editor  that realized it was time for  Moreland recovered for the Rebels  
revenge as they constantly waved  at the Notre Dame 14.  
Jackson -Ever since Robert E. Lee  their confederate flags.  With fourth and six at the ten  
surrendered to Ullysees S. Grant at  In the first half, Notre Dame  yard line, Langley booted his  
Appomattox Courthouse in 1865  compiled 14 first downs, 107 yards  second three-pointer of the clash to  
the South has wanted revenge  rushing and 79 yards via the aerial  extend the Rebels' lead to 20-13  
against the North. This past  attack. Meanwhile, the Rebels  with 1 :44 left in the battle.  
Saturday at Mississippi Memorial  achieved nine first downs, 99 yards  The Irish attempted their two  
Stadium. 47,000 people witnessed  rushing and 112 yards in the air.  minute offense but Lisch was  
the Rebels defeat the Fighting  The third quarter was inactive at  intercepted by Moreland at the  
Irish, 20-13, in a reen~tment ofthe  both ends of the field as neither  Notre Dame 40 with only 17  
Civil War.  team could mount any offense.  seconds remaining. Ellis fell on the  
Notre Dame received the open­ Thus, the third period was score·  ball on the Rebels' final possession  
ing kickoff, but was unable to  less as the board still read, 10-7.  to end the game.  
sustain any offensive drive. Ole  With 13:15 remaining in the  Leading rushers for Notre Dame  
Miss then took command of the  game, tailback Tyrone Richards  were Heavens, who gained 70  
football at their own 24 yard line.  fumbled and Jay Case recovered  yards in 16 carries, and Eurick,  
The determined Rebels marched  for Notre Dame at the Ole Miss 41.  who compiled 51 yards in six  
b4 yards to the Irish 12 yard line.  Five plays later, faced with fourth  attempts.  
Mississippi place kicker Hoppy  down and eight at the Rebels' 27,  The number-one ground gainer  
Langley helped the Rebels draw  Reeve came on to hit a 44 yard field  for Mississippi was tailback Leon  
first blood with his 29 yard field goal.  goal and tie the contest at 10. On their next possession,  Perry, who racked up 45 yards in nine tries.  
Neither team could muster any  Mississippi fumbled once again,  Lisch completed 11 passes in 2S  
oftensive threat for the remainder  this time at their 45 yard line. In  attempts for 127 yards, while  
of the period, as the first quarter  five plays, the Irish advanced the  giving up two interceptions. The  
ended with Mississippi holding a  ball to the Rebel nine yard line.  Irish signal caller carried the ball  
three point edge.  ·*'  Then, after three straight up the  four times for a negative ten yards.  
Then, midway through the  middle runs, Notre Dame had  Ken MacAffee caught six passes  
second quarter. Notre Dame start­ed a drive which was to be their only touchdown march of the afternoon. After a missed field  Linebacker Bob Golic played a great game in Notre Da<ne's 20-13 loss to Mississippi, notching ten solo tackles, two assisted tackles and one interception.  fourth down and goal at the 11. Reeve, as he did in the Pittsburgh clash, came on to give the Irish a lead, 13-10, with only  for 69 yards. Defensively, Bob Golic played a phenominal game, having ten solo tackles and two assists, and having  
goal by Ole Miss, the Irish began  Mississippi 26. Eight plays later, touchdown came on a ten yard  4:53 left in the war.  one interception. Steve Heimkreiter  
possession at their own 20 yard  the Irish tallied on a two yard burst toss from Garner to fullback Jim  Then, changing to a passing  notched six solo tackles while  
line.  by Jerome Heavens. Reeve added Storey.  quarterback, Mississippi '"Head  assisting on five more.  
Four plays into the drive, the  the point after as the Irish captured The Irish had only 32 seconds  Coach Ken Cooper called upon Tim  In final statistics, Notre Dame  
Irish had a first down and ten yards  the lead for the first time, 7-3. remaining in the half in which to  Ellis to lead his offense for a last  had 19 first downs to Mississippi's  
to go at. the Mississippi 38 yard  Ole Miss would not be denied score, and although they attempted  minute score. The senior signal  17. The Irish had 274 yards total  
line. Tri-captain Terry Eurick shot  victory in this battle as they began to reach field goal range, time ran  caller drove the offensive unit 80  offense, while the Rebels compiled  
through the line for a 20 yard  a scoring drive on their next out before they attained their  yards in a mere five plays. With  351. 157 on the ground and 194 in  
pickup but fumbled the ball when  possession. The Rebels marched destination.  Langley's conversion, the Rebels  the air.  
tackled.  75 yards in six plays to regain the With the University of  led 17-13.  The Rebels, with a 2-1 ledger,  
Mississippi returned the ball to  lead, 10-7. The major play in the Mississippi enjoying a 10-7 half­ The Irish had 3:13 to try to win  now prepare for their contest with  
the Irish on the following play as  touchdown drive came on a SO time lead, the flavor of upset began  the football game, but on their first  Southern Mississippi next Saturday  
Rebel quarterback Bob Garner was  yard aerial strike from Garner to to taste sweeter. The band  play, quarterback Rusty Lisch three  in Oxford. The Irish will travel to  
intercepted by Jim Browner at the  spilt end Roy Coleman. The performed ''I Wish I was in Dixie"  complete to Heavens who fumbled  Purdue to face the Boilermakers.  
The 1-1 Season? 



Paul Stevenson 

The Irish Eye 
What's Ahead? 
The Fighting Irish of Notre ties. Ohio State in the Rose Bowl, the Dame ... a team that "Wakes up There is no consistent offensive Trojans were voted National the Echoes" or "Shakes Down threat. The Irish are content to a Champions. the Thunder . " Well, if God hold a narrow lead in a game and Likewise in 1975, Oklahoma, made Notre Dame number-one, depend on the defense to carry on the eventual title winner, had one then the Almighty was on vaca­in the final moments. defeat that year. Surviving the tion this past Saturday. Commenting on play selection season with an unblemished 
Glancing at the Notre Dame is extremely easy after a game. record is an unbelievably difficult roster, one has to believe that the Making the decision within a split task. Irish are over-flowing with talent. second is terribly difficult. If a Since many are excellent at Sure, Notre Dame has had their play works, the coach looks like a speculation, let's venture a bit share of losses and injuries, but genius, however, if it fails, every­further. Ohio State must play the JTOajority of the talent still one is a critic. Oklahoma this Saturday. The remains. A team of National However, in the final minutes Buckeyes must in turn take on­Championship caliber must over­of Saturday's contest, the Irish Michigan towards the end of the come all the obstacles they en­had driven approximatesly 40 season. Oklahoma has to tackle counter if they truly desire to be yards, down to the Ole Miss nine Texas and the remainder of the number-one. yard line. Notre Dame, which Big Eight. The Trojans must 
Head Coach Dan Devine had attained their field position come to South Bend, a first for started at the Golden Dome in with the aid of the passing game, Head Coach John Robinson. Do 
1975, a season many termed a then ran two plays up the middle. not write this Irish squad off for "rebuilding year". An 8-3 sea­Then, after a delay of game the season. There are too many son may not have been over­penalty, the Irish ran a third play games remaining and too many whelming. but the record was up the center of the line and possibilities that could occur satisfactory for a start. settled for a field goal on fourth before the season terminates. 
Even last year, many swal­down. However, nothing will be lowed their pride as Notre Dame Dave Reeve demonstrated tre­accomplished with just specula­compiled a duplicate 8-3 ledger. mendous composure in the battle tion alone. Notre Dame had their The 20-9 victory over Penn State to come into the game and boot chance at the top. Now, the Irish in the Gator Bowl was not the tying and supposed winning have to go out and prove that they miraculous, but the triumph did field goals. Even tho•1gh the three­deserve to have their ranking numb the pain of another medi­pointer may have put Notre Dame back. This quest is not going to ocre season. ahead, why take three points be easy, however, it is possible. 
This year, many were ready to when one hasn't even attempted There will have to be a great see the MacArthur Bowl return to to score a touchdown. amount of determination on the du Lac. Last week's victory over What is the problem with the. part of the coaching staff and the Pittsburgh was a squeaker, and team's performance? Is the players, that they are the bes·, and even though many Irish followers trouble that the execution is poor, they are willing to prove the~ are were dissatisfied, Notre Dame did or is the problem that Notre the best. If you think you ..:an, emerge victorious, 19-9. Dame's offense is so predict­you will; if you think you can't, 
Now, panic has stricken the able, that opponents can stunt you won't. campus once again. Notre Dame right into a developing play? The result of the 1977 season is was upset by Mississippi, 20-13, Whatever the trouble is that is floating in mid-air. How Notre before a capacity crowd in Jack­causing the Fighting Irish to Dame will land come January, son. Because of this defeat, execute poorly, the problem bet­still remains to be seen. How­Notre Dame's record drops to 1-1-ter be solved· quickly if Notre ever, the decision is not solely up and visions of being number-one Dame hopes to salvage a still to the team. In addition, the are fading fast. young season. student body, if they too are truly 
Yes, one has the right to be There are still nine games of Notre Dame caliber, must give disappoi,rted. The preseason remaining on the 1971 schedule. their team a second opportunity. favorite to capture the national The whole outlook, although Yes., . maybe the defeat really crown seems to have fallen apart. clouded at present, could clear up hurt. Maybe we didn't play up to 
Indeed, there are many specu­with a sudden burst of perfor­our potential. But, we -.can't lay lations circulating about the cam­mance. back and just put in time on the pus. Whether the problem is lack In 1974, Southern Cal lost their gridiron just to end the season. of motivation, poor coaching or season opener to Arkansas and in One loss does not make a season. just the inability to cope with their second contest, tied Cali­The Irish football squad, if the 
pressure;. the Irish are just not fornia, 15-15. After winning their desire and dedication are present, performing up to their capabili-next nine contests and defeating ' · Icontinued on page 2] ' 
'I 
·lUbe Irif!h play the way they are capable of playing for the remainder of 
• 

the season, those angered students won't have to. 
Greg Solman=::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;::=:::===========================================================:======:=:==:=:=:=:=:=: 
=:::=:::=======================:=:=:=======================::::;:·::::=::::=======:=======================================================:=== 

Journal 

What do scores of sports publications, the United Press International, numerous football predic:fon services and thousands of college football fans across the nation '1avc in common? 
Well, all of them h~-i~ved Notre Dame was the national champion in 
football this year. If they are, they put th odds against themselves down in Mississippi. The only one that wasn't mislead Sports mustrated, as evidenced by the 
bold, screaming hcadlir.es of their September 12 issue, "The Irish Wake The Echoes." 
Oh, they did that, all right. In fact, as L.Q. Smith lumbered about 45 yards over, arounr' and through the "best defense in college football," one could almost envision Knute turning over in his grave and "echoeing" his "approval." 
At least the Irish didn't prolong the agony this season. Their "big-loss-to-easy-team," which incidentally is becoming a tradition, came on the second game of the season in Mississippi instead of the eighth game in Georgia. That gives us all the more time to write our grandparents in Miami and tell them we might not be down at New Year's after all. 
There is, however, no use in complaining about the loss for the rest of the season. Notre Dame students can be serene in their assurance that no one feels worse about the loss than the players themselves...especially those players who played outstanding football, like Scott Zettek, Terry Eurick, Steve Orsini and Bob Golic. Still, it would have been so nice to come back to Notre Dame undefeated to face Michigan State. If only we could have scored more points ... if only we could have held them...if only we could have eeked out a victory... 
"If 'ifs' and 'buts' were candies and nuts every day would be Christmas.'' 
That's what my roommate used to growl at me in his southern Ohio drawl when I got in wistful moods. Well, I was wistful Saturday ... and it was too hot in Mississippi to be Christmas. 
A better reason for putting this game behind us is that the season is far from over. Notre Dame is not the only team in college football capable of getting upset. Remember, this is still a "Notre Dame" football team. The same ratings people who love it when we lose, love it even more when we win big ... and that's what we have to do for the rest of the season. The problem is, in spite of the fact that we are the most talented team in college football, we simply don't play like we are. The team lacks direction. Can anyone person be blamed? 
In fairness to the coaching staff, it should be noted that they alone cannot hold on to snaps, keep ball handlers from fumbling, keep receivers from dropping passes or keep defensive backs from tripping over themselves. 
You may not think Dan Devine to be the best college coach in the country, but that team with the gold helmets and blue uniforms didn't look too much like a national championship team, either. That is, if you were able to follow the ball with the television camera panning off into the crowd on a pass. How about the comentary. Fergus Vaguson ...? 
However, the talent in undeniably there. The team just appears unmotivated. For whatever reason, the team if floundering. Who's ever fault it is, Notre Dame is not playing inspired. Even next week's matchup against Purdue looks ominous. 
It is perhaps appropriate that Network was playing on campus this weekend, for it gave the masses that huddled to the windows of Flanner and Grace something to yell between them. 
"I'm mad as hell and I'm not going to take it arty morel!" 
. 







