
. G_rotto yester~ay. The 12:15 Mass was celebrated by Fr. John F1tz~erald, d1rector of the collegiate program at Moreau Semmary and a member of the Campus Ministry staff. 
At the start of the Mass, Fitzgerald mentioned four reasons for the celebration. "We're here in gratitude for those thoughtful and sensitive students and faculty who have caused us to st?P a~d re-examine our commitment to justice," he stated. We re here to celebrate our determination that this University, this human enterprise which is so much a part of our l1v~s, shall mdeed stand for the Gospel commitment to justice." 
We gather m concern that we don't busy ourselves removing specks _from our brothers' and sisters' eyes while ignoring the beams m our own," he continued. "We're here to celebrate our solidarity _with 21 workers of the Notre Dame's grounds crew whose plight has aroused our conscience and re-fired our commitment to justice." 
The idea of a mass for social justice orginiated at a meeting held _Tuesday by _students and members of the faculty. The meetmg was held m response to the University's announcement to permanently layoff 21 groundskeepers. 
Tom Soma, student body vice-president, spoke at the begmnmg of the mass to clarify a statement attributed to him in yest~rday' s Observer. The statement reported that Soma cons1dered the mass "an instrument of demonstration against the University." 
Soma stated that the mass was not meant to be an instrument of demonstration. The Mass was to be a community celebration of faith and a sign of concern for social justice everywhere according to Soma. ' 
Hesburgh meets with Woman's Council 
' by Diane WUson Senior Staff Reporter entire social atmosphere. Hesburgh's reaction to the 
Sunday night's meeting between women's statements, according to University President, Fr. Theodore Jones, was to really "try to hear Hesburgh, and the Woman's Ad­them." She also thought he visory Council was termed by learned some things from them. 
Council Co-chairman Barb Frey. as Kathy Gorman, another member of a "success." the council stated that she felt that 
The purpose of the meeting, Hesburgh was "glad we're (the according to Frey, was to discuss women) are here and that we are a the "Report of the Committee to contribution to campus.'' She also 
Evaluate Coeducation" and to ex­added that the problems discussed pose Hesburgh to "what it's like to had to "make him think." Jones be a woman at ND." stated that all through the meeting 
According to Sr. John Miriam Hesburgh was ''trying to be help­Jones, associate provost the meet­ful, and do what is best for the ing was to increase communica­University." tions between the Council and the Although Jones felt there were 
Administration about woman's "no negative feelings" at the views at Notre Dame. Jones meeting, some of the committee explained that this was the first of members were not completely 
many meetings between the coun­satisfied with the results. One cil and University officials. member felt "frustrated" because 
The meeting was not to set any the Council "wanted him to sup­policy but to see Hesburgh's stand port their ideas, not remain neu­on different issues the women feel tral." Hesburgh "is backing the 
are important, stated Michelle report," adding that he "agreed Kelly, a member of the council. with most of it, but not all of it." Kelly judged that the meeting Frey was satisfied with the "went well" in that Hesburgh arguments the committee present­recognized the group and "really ed to Hesburgh, although she was listened" to them. Hesburgh not as pleased with his responses. "sounded like he would be help­She "wondered if he understood" ful" when the Council offers plans what they were saying about the of action, said Kelly. problems at Notre Dame. She 
The main topic of conversation, 
added that while she did not according to Frey, was increasing 
"expect any great results from.the the numbers of. women,· both 
meeting, he may see things a little. differently now.'!. 
students and faculty; at Notre Another member felt that Res­
Dame. The council expressed a definite need for more women on burgh was on the defensive campus, and also a need to 
throughout the meeting and that increase the "number of model 
she did not think he understood roles available for women." Res­
their problems, almost "missing burgh explained that the University 
the point of the meeting." is trying to increase the number of 
The Woman's Council consisting women faculty members, but it is a 
of two representatives from each slow process. Until such time, 
dorm and two representatives from Hesburgh offered to help bring 
off-campus, was formed four years women on campus for seminars to 
ago to give input from women to fill the gap. Jones. Jones stated that they 
Also discussed, according to "extended her eyes and ears to Kelly, was the atmosphere be­what is going on on campus with tween the men and women at ND, women." Frey added that they the relationships between men and were a sounding board for women's 
women, the problems of being problems and were to help meet women at Notre Dame and the the psychological needs of women. 

Friday, October 14, 1977 Vol. XII, No. 34

The Observer 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's 
s~c ~n~nimously approves'd1sc1phnary compromise' 
by Phil Cackley Student Body President Dave Ben-• A new hearing would be conven-
Senior Staff Reporter der, claiming an important gain for ed by the Review Board at which 
students. both the accused student and the 
A proposal making sweeping The proposed changes, which Dean may call witnesses and 
changes in University disciplinary will be submitted to the University present evidence. The Review 
procedures was unanimously ap­Board of Trustees at their fall Board would be active only during 
proved last night by the Student meeting next week, constitute a the school year. 
Life Council (SLC). major revision of the "University Students have a major hand in 
The proposal abolishes the Uni­Rules and Regulations" section of determining the composition of the 
versity judicial board and the duLac, the student manual. Review Board, thus giving them 
Appeals board, and removes stu­The rules and regulations areas indirect input into the disciplinary 
dents from ditect involvement in remain basically intact. The actual process. The board is picked from the disciplinary process. However, stipulations are unchanged, with a 12-member panel. The accused it also sets up a Judicial Review the exception of ''the throwing of student chooses one member and Board in the place of the Appeals food or other objects in the dining the Dean another, and the other board, significantly standardizes halls," which is added as a serious three are chosen at random. The Hall judicial boards, and moves offense under the regulations. This members chosen must satisfy an a number of University offenses to addition was made at Student overall two-three or three-two rae­hall j-board jurisdiction. Government's initiative. ulty-administration ratio. 
The spirit of compromise at last While unchanged in content, The 12-member panel --six night's meeting, held in the Library both these areas were modified administrators and six faculty faculty lounge, was notable, espe­somewhat by a simplification and a members --is determined by the cially coming after the tense atmo­clarificaton of language. Student Government Board of sphere which had surrounded the The most sweeping changes in Commissioners and approved by affair since student leaders were the proposal come in the area of the President of the University. told in late August that students disciplinary procedures and include The panel is selected from a group would be eliminated from the the abolishment of the University of 12 administrators nominated by disciplinary procedure. Judicial Board and the Appeals the Vice-President for Student 
Numerous members of the SLC Board and the removal of direct Affairs and 12 faculty 'members praised the "spirit of conciliation student participation in the disci-nominated by the Faculty Senate. and compromise on both sides," plinary process. As a result, all Decisions of the Review board and had no 'significant disagree­University offenses would be treat-may be appealed to the University ment with the proposal which, four ed by the Dean of Students. President who has the final deci­weeks ago, was considered to be Students retain the option for sion in all disciplinary matter impossible to prepare in so short a appeal, however, to a Judicial brought to him. time. Review Board. The appeal may be The proposal also lists a number 
"There is no question that the made on "any aspect of the Dean of of penalties which the Dean of issues which were of prime concern Student's decision, including the Students may impose on students, to us have been addressed in this severity of the penalty." This is a ranging from "some form of ap­proposal,'' Dean of Students James major change from the current propriate constructive activity" to Roemer commented, expressing procedure, in which appeals are permanent dismissal from the Uni­his pleasure with the outcome of based only on an abuse of discre-versity. This is an addition which the meeting. tion or when substantial new 
''This is a big step for us,'' said evidence has been found. [continued on page 5] 
An open -letter to the University 
To the Faculty and Students: economically performed py specialists in this kind of work, we have decided because of the gross misunderstanding we have encountered, to go slower 
I wish to comment on the campus reaction to the in this entire matter. Therefore, we have reversed our news of the University's proposed action to turn over decision as to immediate action and have postponed groundskeeping chores to an outside contractor. any final decision for some future date. 
As you know, I have been in Chicago most of last consistent with this decision the Universtiy has week and during these last three days in connection directed its attorney to withdraw the University's with the Campaign for Notre Dame _ twelve lunches motion presently pending before the National Labor and dinners to be exact. This is the ftrst opportunity I Relations Board and has further instructed its have had to study this and comment upon it. I gather attorney to work with the NLRB in order that a from the press reports that much has been said by representation election may be held for the grounds others. Naturally, as one who has talked about crew employeees without undue delay. justice, in season and out of season here, I am happy So that there is no misunderstanding of our present to see our community concerned about justice. But I intentions, I wish to state that the University has been also remind you that part of justice is to recognize all exploring and will continue to explore the question of of the facts surrounding a situation and to judge the efficiency and economy of other non-academic accordingly. I regret my tardiness in getting the functions on campus, as well as groundskeeping, following facts to you. What I was doing elsewhere with an eye to contracting them or dropping the was scheduled long ago and immensely important to function. Frankly, we have no other choice. If we are the future of the University. Now to the present. to improve salaries, wages and fringe benefits for all 
who work here, while avoiding astronomical increases lVlany persons seem to have jumped to the in tuition, we simply have to introduce economies of. erroneous conclusion that we were dismissing in a operation. cavalier .manner the 21 men who now comprise our One final note ~, The economic welfare of all Notre grounds crew staff. Nothing conld have been further Dame employees is of vital concern to us and·we are 'from the"facts, which are simply these·. In retrospect; constantly striving for betterment. For instance, six they were not well communicated up ~o this pciint. months ago we began putting together an improved Last May we were approached by an independent wage and fringe benefit package for our hourly and contractor who, when discussing the financial clerical workers which will go into effect on January 1, arrangements, assured us that he would absorb on his 1978. An official announcement on this will be payroll a large number of our present crew. We forthcoming soon. As I mentioned to the \faculty last planned to assimilate the rest of the group in other Monday, this a.£tion alone leaves us facing a possible d.epartments of the University. This mea.ns that not a deficit of $650,000 in next year's projected budget. smgle man ~ould ?ave su~ered econ~mtc harm as a I appreciate the action of all those persons, result of our mtentton to ~ttl!ze an out~tde contractor. administrators as well, who in my absence worked ·S~veral. years ag~, for stmtla~ financtal reasons, we· hard to solve this problem without unduly aggravating dtscontmued o~r mternal mamten~nce sh?P· all ~he! the situation. This is a caring community whose sense. members of whtch belonged to a umon and m so domg' of justice also touches those who have to make we _were . guided by the same . ·.humanitari~n difficult decisions to keep Notre Dame alive and constderattons. Thus, we are both surprtsed and a btt growing in the face of very difficult financial disappoi~ted in the mista~en c?~clusions drawn in the pressures. God bless you all. ·present mstance by certam crtttcs. • Ever devotedly in Notre Dame, While the University is still of the opinion that the care of the grounds can be more efficiently and Father Ted Hesburgh, 
' 
Friday, October 14, 1977
the observer 
On Campus Today_-----... Sign language poetry 
friday, oct. 14 

Horst performs for deaf 
4:30pm lecture "on the tropical euclidian space form problem" 
~~:Flynn
by prof. wu chung hsiang, princton univ., sponsored by 
. e~rter .
the math dept. rm. 226 math building, open to the 
Laune Horst rectte~ poetry wtt~ 
public. 
her hands. She doesn t ~ompose m 
meter and rhy_me, but tn graceful 
sweeps and swtrls of her hands and 
5:15 mass and supper, bulla shed. 
arms. Her poems are for ~he_ de~f. Horst, a sophomore majortng tn 
5:30 meeting, paragon ·experience, sP<>nsored by the 
special edu~ation at St,_ Ma~y'!t, has campus crusade for christ, lib. aud. 
been expertmentmg wtth stgn Ian­guage poetry for the deaf for two 7 pm bible study, sponsored by the campus crusade for 
years.. She _also transl~tes Robert christ, grace hall penthouse 
Frost. mto !tberal verstons of the Amertcan stgn Ia_nguage. 7,9,11 pm film, "small change" sponsored by the student ~nion 
~orst sees nothmg u~?sual abo~~ eng. aud., $1 
stgn lan~uage p~e~ry. After all,_ she remmded, stgn langauge ts 7:30-11:36 zahm-farley block party, spo:1sored in ronjunction with 
evn older than talki~g."soc:al comr:1ission on stepan center. 
The. beauty of ~~g~ languag~, accordt~? to Horst, '.s tn the way tt 8 pm nd-smc theatre "the comedy of errors", o'laughlin 
looks. No~ every s1g~er can s~gn aud. $2.50, $2.00 
poetry. _It s mo_re ltke dancmg bec_ause It requt~es grace and 8:30pm . soc-hop, regina north lounge, 50 cents or free if in 
patience. Most s1gne~s move so costume, open. 
fast that ~I you can s~~ IS arms and hands flymg arol!nd. . 10-12 pm joe carey and bob sullivan playing acid rock basement 
Horst, who ~el_1es on her_dancmg of Iafortune 
and baton tw1rhng expenence to 7:30 
''recite'' her poetry. says she 
12:30 pm quickie shuttle, every half hour, main circle 
strives for a rippling and ballet-like sequence of hand movements__ to make her poetry look lyncal. Her 
saturday, oct. 15 
CCE conference to discuss 
8 am exam graduate record exam eng. aud. 
divorced Catholics' problems
11 am -6 ceramic show, ace monogram room 
The North American Conference 
11 am cross country, nd vs. Ioyola and w. mich , golf course of Separated and Divorced Catho­lics will meet for a sixth annual 
12:30 pm football, nd vs army, away conference at Notre Dame this weekend. The theme for the 
6:45 pm devotions, recitation of rosary, grotto sessions which will be held in the Center for Continuing Education, is 
7,9,11 pm film, "small change", eng. aud., $1 
"Together in Hope: Response to 'A Call to Action'." 
7:30pm meeting, paragon experience, sponsored by campus 
Directors of the joint Canadian­crusade for christ, lib. aud. 
American conference said that the sessions will focus on proposals 8 pm nd-smc theatre, "the comedy of errors", o'laughlin 
discussed at last year's "Call to aud. $2.50, $2 
Action" conference of the Ameri­9:30 
can Catholic Bishop's Bicentennial -12 pm nazz, Kevin quigley performing, basement of Iafor­
Convocation in Detroit. These tune 
proposals indlude a serious effort to reconcile separated, divorced and remarried Catholics to the Church, 
unday, oct. 16 to develop new ministries to 
11 am 2 pm 
5 pm 7 pm 7_& 9 pm 
9 pm 
divorced Cathoiics, to end all forms ceramic show, ace monogram room 
of discrimination against divorced Catholics and to admit Catholics in mass, sponsored by friends of the retarded & l'arche, 
second marriages to the Eucharist. celebrated by fr. griffin, bulla shed 
Zahm, Farley 
vegetarian dinner, sponsored by nd-smc world hunger coalition, lewis basement, free 
plan 'Block party' 
Zahm and Farley Halls, in con­junction with Student Union Social film, "phantom of the opera", sponsored by student 
cila meeting, general, lib. aud. 
Commission, are union, eng. aud., $1 
"Block Party" from 7:30 to 
p.m. this Friday night paper recycling, student gov. collection for volunteer 
Quad between the two halls. serv1ces, outside room door 
band "Night Flight" will perform 
*The Observer 
Night Editor: Bob Brink Asst. Night Editor: rrank Kebe layout Staff: Tra~y Herman, Katie Kerwin, Le1gh Tunakan, Steve Kazimer. joe Chose, and The Foo Editorial layout: Rick LaBelle Features layout: Drew John Bauer Sports layout: Paul Stevenson Typists: Eileen Lynch, Mark Rust, Mardi Nevin, Tom Po­wanda f;.M.T.; ..Rich..CiariLio, Karen ~hiames ·~ ...\ . . flay Editor: ~<ate Flyhn' Copy Reader: Chris Datzman Ad layout: Greg Trzupek Photographer: Doug Christia 
The Observer Is published Mon­day through Friday except during exam and v~utlon periods. The Obse1ver Is published by ttle students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purch.sed for S20 per year (S 10 per semester) from The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second clan postage paid, Notre Dame. Indiana, 46556. 
The Observer Is a member of the Anoclated Pren. All repro. ductlon rlghfl are re1erved. 
and rcfresshments will be served. 
stgn poetry technique is a matter of 
physical embellishment ofthe stan­
dard sign or using imaginatiom to 
manmuever her hands from one 
position to another. 

"I think in basic English first then take poetic liberty in trans! a-ting the words into signs. When it comes to nice sounding words or a beautiful movement,! always pick in favor of the sign. 
At first Horst was not sure if her poetry could be understood, since she is experimenting with a fairly new art medium. She said she used to practice her poettry for the deaf on her sister who is deaf to see if her style could express her idea evn though she had stretched th~ :;ign language rules 
Horst says that now her_poems are so natural looking that a viewer might think she was merely telling a story. She has even discovered that it is possible to translate rhyme into movcn ·ent by finding words which translate into parrellel or complimentary motions. 
Horst describes her poetrv as free verse narrative style leadingup to a narrative point which "sneaks up on the reader." She explained that she renders the narrative into 
MULTl THE ULTIMATE SIGHT &SOUND EXPERIENCE 
FRI OCT 14 7:00 & 8:30 
.. 
ALL SHOWS IN THE LIBRARY AUDITORIUM ALL SEATS FREE 

Leaders of the group favor a funded study of the causes of divorce and a removal of an 1884 regulation attaching an excommu­nication to second marriage in a 
non-Roman Catholic ceremony. 
NO-ARMY Football Special 
Double Bloody Mary's $1.00 

Speakers at the weekend ses­sions will include Fr. John Heagle, director of the Justice and Peace Office of the Diocese of LaCrosse, and author of "A Contemporary !l Meditation on Hope", "Life to the 
~ Full" and "Our Journey Toward God", and Morton and Bernice Hunt. His is the author of the recently published ''The Divorce Experience.'' 
Apply Monday for Health Board 
.\ppJi,·ation~ \\111 he :J\ .11i.tbiv Monda\ at the ~tutknt uO\ vrn ment ot'ticc~ for the 'lludcnt Hc.1l1n Center Advisor:. Board. 
A Student Government ( on~tllu tiona! amendment passed Ia.,! Wednesday renamed the old lnfir· marv Advi~orv Council. The new 

fluid arm movement and hand 
movements. The dramatic point, 
which usually ends her poem, is 
then emphasized in an abrupt or 
sharp jerk of the hands. 

Even those who do not under­stand sign language can under­stand the tone ofthe dramatic point communicated by her hands. 
Horst stressed that sign Ian­guage poetry can be an art form for those who hear as well as for the dealf, ifshe speaks the words as she signs them. In any case, this is primarily a visual art form. 
Laurie Horst will perform in a free program of multi-lingual poet­ry in the Century Center on December 4, sponsored by the Indiana Committee for the Human­ities and the IUSB Division of Continuing Education. 

FREE!!! 
Soft drink with 3 ikrns 'fACOS • eAB1 TACO 
• 
IIIRRIJOS • TAIAlES 

• 
F.NCIII.ADAS • TACO DOC 

• 
TOSfADOS • BEAN TACO 

• 
BARBEQUE TACO 

• 
SPANISH HOT 000 

• 
CHE£UBURC£R 




"We carry a line of 
vegctark1n Foods. 
\RESTAURANTE/ SCOTTSDALE MALL 


...------~----------­
the observer 

Fencing. organ~zation tied. to p!!~.burglaries 
\ ~ :"F''i:·~-~' 
.... . > /ffJ ' . 

by Ann Gales Senior Staff Reporter 
Director of Personnel Thomas . Bull revealed that lpproximately eight years ago the University laid off 35 unionized tradesmen in favor of contracting companies. 
According to Bull, the situation involved University employees who already belonged to a union. These included electricians, carpenters, plumbers, painters and other tradesmen and craftsmen. 
''The men insisted that they be paid the same wages as unionized journeymen and craftsmen working 
downtown," Bull stated. ::How­ever, the University believed that there was a lot of time when the men were working but not using their skills--for example, when they were between jobs or working areas not related to their skills." 
The University determined that it would be much more expensive to pay the workers the wages they demanded than to hire out contrac­tors, Bull explained. "Therefore, we decided to eliminate the crafts­men from our working force." 
Approximately 35 -men, of SO craftsmen and tradesmen working for the University at the time, were laid off. 
''Although my information is only second-hand," Bull stated, "it is my understanding that there was some kind of policy that men over a certain age would be retained so they could finish out their working careers and receive pension from 
Notre Dame. Of course, the workers ·who stayed on did not receive pay raises," he added. 
After the lay-off, the University hired contractors on a job to job basis to do the work of the fired men. Bull commented, "We did this then and still do it today because we believe it saves money, sinc<t we don't have to pay skilled 
Whet,, is .~·f·].,.~;·,·_-­
Helen of Troy? 
The Student Union Social Com­mission is currently sponsoring the Helen of Troy Contest. Helen of Troy is hidden somewhere on campus with clues of her location being given every day on WSND ­AM and listed completely in the personal section of the Observer. To guess the correct location, call social commission office between 3 and 5 (6244). The contest ends next Tuesday. First prize is a homecoming package, second prize is a $20 gift certificate at River City laborers to work on other jobs when their skills aren't needed." 
· Bull pointed out that union men are accustomed to changes of . employment. ''There was no real protest from anyone,'' he said. 
by Dave Rombach Senior Staff Reporter 
The 14 burglaries committed in the concentration of student off­campus housing between Eddy and Angela streets so far this year are probably part of a fencing opera­tion according to Corporal Pat Catrell of the South Bend Police Department. 
Catrell spoke to a small group of off-campus students last night at the Northeast Neighborhood Cen­ter called to teach students crime prevention methods. The students plan to create an "off-campus task force" to solicit support from the University and added police protec­tion from the South Bend Police Department. 
Catrell stated that the number of burglaries and the kinds of articles most often stolen point to the existence of a fence, probably somewhere in the Eddy-Angela 
~t....an+ _......,;,....h'ho..,hr\1""\rl T-~ha 1 A IJL.l"-''-'1. .it,t;:i51u..i~...h!.!VV"'""" ~.!! '-11\... ~"T 
burglaries, off-campus student houses between Aug. 12 and Oct. 3, seven stereos, two televisions and an undisclosed amount of currency were stolen resulting in an estimated loss of $8,000. 
Catrell, who has a regular beat in the Eddy-Angela area also stated that the single car patrolling the area is insufficient protection con­sidering the area's high crime rate. 
The off-campus students at the meeting plan to create a task force or coalition to seek the deployment of a second regular patrol car to the neighborhood. This ·coalition will also attempt to unify off-campus students, who are in some student's opinion "alienated" from t~e Uni­velsity at large. 
"If we are subject to the rules of du Lac as Roemer says we are then why aren't we given some support in these problems?" asked one student. The coalition plans to draft a petition calling for unifica­tion of off-campus students and incre·ased support from the Univer­sity in such matters as added police protection. 
Associate Director of Off-Cam­pus Housing Darlene Palma stated that her department had adopted a "laissez-faire" attitude toward cer­tain duLac directives. "In the four years that I've been here the Universtiy has never once prose­cuted students for co-habitation of opposite sexes ... we are not detec­tives," Palma said. 
Off-campus students wishing to become involved in the coalition or to sign the petition should contact Tony, Miller or Chad Tiedemann said Barb Frey, an organizer of last 
_:_.1. ·~---·:.. ........,.. ;·~· 1 ­~;;g;it~ ill<O<:unl5. ine Cuanuon nas scheduled another meeting for Nov. 8 at 7 pm at. the Northeast Neighborhood Center. Every off­campus student is encouraged to attend, Frey added. Sgt. Joel Wolvos also addressed the gorup offering crime preven­tion measures which could "knock down the probability of illegal entry by 80 percent." Wolvos' preven­tion plan consists of three parts: proper hardware, transportation of valuables to dorms or houses during breaks and a "neighbor­hood watch" program. Because most entries are gained by breaking the glass of window or door and releasing the latch from the inside, Wolvos suggested that 
students equip their--residences with .a "dual lock apparatus," a lock which requires a key from both sides. W olvos also outlined several methods for burglar-proofing win­dows. 'Details for both procedures are in brochures available at the South Bend Police Station. 
Notre Dame Engineering Profes­sor Arthur Quigley reported that 
many homes in the northeast neigh­borhood would be willing to retain the valuables of off-campus stu­dents during breaks. It was also suggested that stereos and other articles could safely be stored in dorms on the Notre Dame campus. _ 
Wolvos also suggested. "Neigh­borhood Watch" to reduce the rash of burglaries. "Get to know your neighbors and they will keep an eye on the house when you are at school or on vacation,'' he advised. At this point one student related how he had gotten to know his 
neighbors in the hopes of gaining securiJty only to find out later that they had helped rob-his home. 
Wolvos described the average criminal as 17, unsophisticated and able to be beat with a little preparation and cooperation. 
Senior-trippers to meet 
A mandatory meetin_g for all "senior-trippers" will be held this Monday at 7 p.m. in the Engineer­ing Auditorium. Students must attend as all times and ticket packages will be distributed then. 

"The men were not at all surprised by the University's decision. Most of them hitched on with contractors in town." 
There was no student protest to the issue, either, according to Bull. ''Someone told me that it got three lines in the newspaper and that was the end of it," he said. 
The only analogy that Hull say 
between the tradesmen incident :;.T.~ i:Je present situation with the groundskeepers was ''the feeling on the part ofthe University that in taking the action none of the men would end up unemployed.'' 
Bull stated,· "As with the groundskeepers, the University did not give the laid-off men any guarantees but said that it would make a sincere effort to place them in other departments at Notre Dame or help them obtain jobs from·other employers." 
"If a man has good skills and is willing to put in a hard day's work, he should have no trouble finding a job," Bull concluded. 
Director of Information Services Richard Conklin said that he had only a vague recollection of the incident. "Our department has no record of the incident,'' he stated, 
;;but as I recall, the situation was quite different from the current gr~undskeepers issue." 
Limited Number of Homecoming Tickets Available for 
'Those Were The Days' 

Tnn1:r D"......,..._ 
~ vuy .uauun 

and His Orchestra 
Tickets on sale 

ACC Concourse 
Monday an~ Tuesday 9 -1 Saturday 
Oct17&18 Oct 22 
at the Dining Halls Ticket Bar 
and Student Union Ticket Office Hors d'ourves 
$6 per couple 


!I:; 
'~ 
~ 

Records, third prize a Miller RATIO IS II STUDENTS CONTRIBUTING $1.00 OR MORE DIVIDED BY TOTAL NUMBER OF STUDENTS 
I'

light. 

the obseryer Friday, October 14, 1977 
100 volunteers sought 
Student escort service to begin operation 
by Rosemary MJUs Saturday. volunteer is available, the Ombuds-graduate student, one off-campus organized means of dealing with 
~·•., OAK DAIRY ~ PARTY STORE 
{cc:( ua:enaiit..J . . 
,•-.II 

Senior Staff Reporter 
A Student Government spon­
sored escort service will begin 
operation Oct. 31, according to 
Co-education Committee chair­
person Anne Thompson. Sign up 
sheets will be posted in every 
men's hall until Tuesday. 
The student service,· organized by Student Government in coopera­tion with the Hall Presidents Council, is in answer to complaints about poor security and lighting on campus. Approximately 100 re­sponsible volunteers are wanted to escort women on the Notre Dame campus. Anticipa:cd hours of the se:'\ ice are from 9 pm until 1 am Sunday through Thursday, and from 9 pm until 2:30 am Friday and 
Library noise problem continues 
by Sue Wuetcher 
The noise level in the second floor lobby of the Memorial Library is still a problem, according to David E. Sparks, director of the University Libraries. 
"It's a cocktail party," said Sparks. "How do the students know how to act when they see the library staff doing the same thing?" Sparks added that the architectural structure, the position of the furniture, and the close proximity of the lobby to the main 
1 way to alleviate the problem in the library would be to make LaFortune an alternative area. The Student Union should provide the same
SOC-HOP 
elements that make the library popular: available food and rooms
Friday, Oct. 14th 8:30pm for serious studying as well as relaxation. 
According to Sparks, the great­REGINA NORTH LOUNGE est need is for the students to respect each other's rights. They
Prize for best costume! 
must take responsibility for helping G!:~ another. !!The ilbraty shouid
$.56 admission--FREE if in costume 
be a quiet place, a place to work," he concluded. 
study  area  all  contribute  to  the  
problem.  
In  an  effort  to  cut  down  the  

noise, Spark's first course of action will be to inform the students and the staff of their responsibilities. Sparks is then hoping to meet with SBP Dave Bender, SBVP Tom Soma, and HPC Chairman J.P. Russell about the situation. He added that alternative areas to the lobby are also being provided for th students. 
"We want to make the "pit" a more welcome place," said Sparks. 
The area covered includes the entire Notre Dame campus, the graduate women's town houses and the parking lots. It does not include to or from campus. Thompson stated that an escort service to St. Mary's may be organized "if we can get the escorts and depending on how successful this one is." 
Any woman desiring an escort will call the Ombudsman, and give her name, location, and the tele­phone number from which she is calling, along with a description of what she is wearing. The Ombuds­rr.an will call the list of volunteers until he finds an ;available escort. The Ombudsman will then call the woman back, describe her escort, and give the approximate time at which to expect him. If no 

man will call Notre Dame Security 
and request an escort from them. 
Thompson said the idea of the escort service was raised at the recent forum on he lighting situa­tion, sponsored by graduate women. Associate Provost Sr. John Miriam Jones explained then that a similar system had once operated for April and May of one year, but apparently fizzled out. 
Student Union recently organ­ized a Security Advisory Council, for which they are accepting appli­cations. Applications are available today at the Student Government ofices at 3 pm and should be returned to Thompson's mailbox by Wednesday. The council members will be announced by next Friday. 
The Security Board will be composed of four undergrads, one 
"New seating has been installed, and that may even be improved 
upon. The phone area outside the pit could also be more comfortably furnished." The main alteration will be the addition of wooden benches and ashtrays along the first floor concourse. Sparks said that the change is relatively inex­pensive, but would definitely beau­tify the institution, making it "well worth the effort." 
Sparks also noted that the second floor lobby is the only successful student center on campus. One representative and two rectors or them. Although the council will assistant rectors. They will meet have no official authority and no monthly with Director of Security constitution, Thompson sees it as a Arthur Pears to give their ideas on way to insure that work is compte­security problems and discuss ted and not started and forgotten. special projects. One problem ,that Thompson stated that while Thompson mentioned was the prac-Pears and Dean Roemer have not tice of not allowing student cars on commented directly on the commit­campus after 6 pm. She called this tee's efforts to improve security, an inconvenience and cited hall they seem "willing to listen and formals, dates on cold or rainy giv~~ their cooperation." nights, and returns from breaks as times when the practice was es­Discount cards pecially annoying. 
Thompson hopes the board will tct be distributed serve as a channel for student 
Student buying power cards willcomplaints. She explained that be distributed from 1-5 pm in thepeople raise the same complaints Student Government office. 2cdcontinuously and the council is an floor of LaFortune, today only. 


ats:OO p.m. All seats $2.50 ($2 Std-Fac-Staff) Phone: 284-417 6 

SEASON TICKETS STILL AVAILABLE.••.....••....•.•... 4 PLAYS $9 ($7 Std-Fac-Staff) 
lnclud.:;: CC!'.~EDY OF E~RORS, CAUCASiAN CHALK CIRCLE, TOUCH OF A POET, and THE MIKADO 

Friday, October 14, 1977 
the observer 

South Bend S9mphony Opens · Ambitious Season at Morris Ovic 
Leo C · Hansen 
Mozart : Ouerture to the 'Marriage of Figaro' 
Proko~eu : Romeo S Juliet' • Brahms Concerto No. I for Piano S Orchestra 
The South Bend Svmphony Or­chestra begins an ambitious con­cert season Saturday night at the Morris Civic Auditorium. with the potential of being their finest since Conductor Herbert Butler joined the local Symphony three ~·cars ago. 
Rcknown pianist Claude Frank. will make his fourth appearamT in south Bend. with the Orchc~tra. innaugurating the current '>L'a~on with a performance of Brahm·,., tir'>t piano concerto. 
I can remember wanting to pla~ the piano before I remember wanting to do anvthing l'l'>l'." claim'> Frank. who'>e famih tlcd from German ovvupation to Madrid 
when he was little. It '"'" in till' basement of Madrid''> Aeoltan H~di 
that he perfected his early tech­nique.$ 
"There are lots of pianists around who pound harder than Claude Frank, and stir up more superficial 'excitement'," accord­ing to music critic Robert Finn, "but few who play with his down-to-earth, musical honesty." 
Mr. Frank is known to have a keen perceptual eye for the essen­tial moving force behind a composi­tion, relying upon intense concen­tration and a spontaneous interpre­tation of the direction of the composition. 
It is this creative avility which distinguishes the artist from the performer. 
When he was still quite young. he was called upon to play for a party for the Brazilian ambassador. 
In return for the performance he and his family wete awarded their visas to America. In 1941 he arrived in New York to study under Artur Schnabel. He now teaches at Yale. 
The remainder of the season promises to be intriguing. The selections include .. Brandenburg Concerto No.2" (Bach); Schuller's Seven Studies on Paul Klee themes: Stravinsky's Symphon~· of Psalms and "Four Etudes for Orchestra .. ; Prokolic1 ·,., "Concerto No. 3 in C" and "Concerto in D" fm 1·iolin and oi-chc,.,Ira b\ Bee­thoven. to mention some of highlights of the season. 
Ticket inquiries should be ad­dressed to 215 W. North Shore Drive in South Bend 46617 or by phone at 232-6343. Some tickets arc usuallv available at the door. 
SLC okays disciplinary agreement 
[continued from page lj has been "resurrected from old duLacs.·· The other radical change in disciplinary prol·cdures i~ the in­clusion of a section <ln hall j-boards and violations of hall rules. which has never before appeared in duLac. The hall j-boards '' nuld be stan­dardized in number. composition. and scleciton proces'>. Students would be able to have their cases heard by either the rector or the hall j-boarcl and, "The rector shall make the student aware of this option in each disciplinary action." Violations of hall rules may be taken directly to the Dean of Students. if the rector or the Dean decides that the violations arc of a "very serious nature... However, the proposal explicitly states that "rectors are strongly urged to use the hall judicial board and to limit their handling of disciplinary cases to those which are truly serious or 
sensitive or involve pastoral con­cerns not appropriate for a judicial board." 
The list of residence hall rules includes a number of "concurrent jurisdiction" areas, where the vio­lation would be a University and hall offense (\t the same time, although less serious cases would be dealt with at the hall level. 
Significantly. these areas dealt with at the hall level include "the consumption of alcohal in private rooms" and "the u~c ot marijuana within the residence hall." 
The final area affected by the proposal is that regarding the student rights in disciplinary pro­ceedings. The content of duLac again remains basically unchang­ed, although the student rights have been "specified and expand­eel." The rights include "free choice of undergraduate student counsel who may be present at the hearing before the Dean of Stu­dents." 
The proposal was worked up from Administration and Student Government versions by a special committee. The committee was appointed by the SLC at its Sept. 22 meeting and hammered out the proposal in three meetings held during this past week. 
Tom Byrne, a member of the special committee, expiained the proposal to the SLC. He said the purpose of making certain offenses hall offenses, such as alcohol and marijuana violations, was to "get duLac to describe reality in the halls." He added that the enumer­ation of penalties is "good to have ­many students have only heard rumors.'' 
Roemer explained that one rea­son for moving the offenses to a hall level is that ''we would like to share the responsibility of enforce­ment with the students." 
"In this, we have the support of Fr. Theodore Hesburgh, (Univer­sity President), the trustees, and 
Provost search to be discussed 
by Jake Morrissey port leaves "if it is explicity members and further clarification Staff Reporter requested in a fully drawn proposal of the positions of University submitted to the University no later Provost and University Archivist to 
The selection of a Provost s·earch than June 1 of the calendar year the Academic Manual. Committee and a revision of the preceding the calendar year in The meeting, which is not open faculty leave of absence policy are which leave is taken and only if the to the public, is scheduled for 3 two of the scheduled topics for proposal meets the standards of pm at the Center for Continuing discussion at the Academic Council scholarly excellence which prevail Education. meeting this afternooxr.'::·~·~·:•.•.•.•.·.·.i.n.i.t:! .author's discipline. 1'· -•• •. 
A9conting to the. Acad~~e~·~<~·~~~~<i<s~t~a,· ~?r:w~~de.t:ati?~ at Proof-less senlOr$ 
ual,!'The Provost IS elected by the t'Jie meehng IS tbe permanent . .Boa~ of Trus.tees.• ,.when such a~f :,i!~d~!·~fJ.>t,lmi.dse:~y~~et _';:gra!i~L~ ···,~-I.(:Ontact DOME I 
appomtment 1s made, the Prest-repottmg tor freshmen to the ­Student Government," he said. "They're all saying 'Hey, we really clo think that students can deal with peer problems. They may be in a better situation to do that.' " 
The SLC considered the proposal for about an hour, discussing "bizarre cases" which might arise under the proposal and attempting to anticipate ways in which to deal with such cases. The council also mulled over the syntax and "ele­gance of phrases" used in the proposal, making a few changes to clarify certain areas. 
Sarah Daugherty, assistant pro­fessor of English, who was a member of the special committee both the Administration and Stu­dent Government made conces­sions. ''Both have been very reasonable," she said. The Ad­ministration made a major conces­sion concerning violations of the use of marijuana, she pointed out. At the same time, Student Govern­ment did notpresshome its demand for moving consideration of parie­tals to a hall offense, Daugherty added. 
Bender gave much credit for the success of Student Government's efforts to the students who helped write out the student government 
proposal:  John  Talbot,  Steve  
Dane,  Maryellen  Woods,  Patty  
Donclanville,  Joe  Gill,  and  Tom  


and of the SLC, commented that Byrne. 
SUNDAY MASSES <Main Church> 
5:15 p.m. sat. Rev. Robert Griffin C.S.C. 9:30a.m. Sun. Rev. Richard Conyers C.S.C. 
10 :45 a.m. Sun. Rev. John T,, Lahey C.S.C. 
12:15 p.m. Sun. , •
Rev. Wilham A. Toohey C.S.C. 
1· _Vespers will bet at 7 :1 5 p.. m. in Lady Chapel. pne celebrant will be Rev. John T. Lahe C.S.C. 
,~~~~~~~--:_----~~~~. 
t~........~~~~~~~~d L 
1 $o~~west..-n:'M.ichigan·~s ~ 
\ MOS't dY'I''UJMfc'-· ' .. , I
dent advises the University of this Academic Code. In a letter from Seniors who have not yet receiv-I necessity through the Academic Dean of the Freshmen Year of eel their yearbook portrait proofs Council. The Council then elects a Studies Emil T. Hofman, he cited should contact the Dome office 
I sound and light show 1
committee of five members from its the "almost unanimous support of tonight, (7524). Those seniors who 
elected faculty representatives and parents" and "because the current have already received their proofs 
t ·. Disco . t
one from its student representa-miclsemester deficiency system should return them immediately to 
f FRIDAY AND SATURDAYNIGHT$2.00 ADMISSION
tives to meet with the President to does not provide adequate gui-Delma Studios in New York. ... consider nominations." dance for fteshmen... who ate not 
t Ladies Night t
The leave of absence policy is capable of correctly evaluating being changed because "the cur-their own work," as reasons for the Petition march ! EVERYWEDNESDAY-GENTLEMEN$1 t' rent policy does not support finan-change. 
Petitions backing ground work­' LADIES FREEcially from those which it will not," Finally, the Council will review 
ers will be marched to the Admini­
a statement explaining the ration-proposals for the election of the • DRESS CODE ENFORCED f
stration Building steps today at
ale reads. If approved by the Executive Committee of the Aca­
Academic Council and the Board of demic Council, the election and 12:15. The march will be led by the • JERICHO & SHAWNEE ROADS, BRIDGMAN, MICH. f grounds keepers coalition. 
Trustees, the University will sup-number of deputies for Council a~ .... ~~.._..~~~~~..-..~~~~~~J.. 
Sorting It All Out 
*The Observer ~ 
an independent student newsp.1per serving notre d.1me .1nd st. m.Jry·., 

The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of either institution The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries. opinions and letters are the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the commun1ty, and letters are encouraged to promote the free expression of'varying opinions on campus. 
EDITORIAL BOARD 
Marti Hogan Editor-in-Chiet Martha Fanning Managing Editor Rob Brink Asst Managing Ed. Kathy Mills Executive Editor Maure~n Flynn Editorial Editor Barb Breit~nstein Exec. News Editor jean Powl~v 51 Mary's Editor Katie Kerwm News Editor Barb Langhenry News Editor Paul St~ven~on Sports Editor Pat Col~ Special Projects Ed Dav1d O'K~efe Features Editor 
=============lJ 
Friday, Octobe•· 14, 1977 77 
P.O. BOX Q 
We community celebration of faith and a sign of concern for social justice want names everywhere. It was never intended (by me or any other active organi­In the past week, The Observer zer) as a vehicle to demonstrate 
The one indisputable facet of th« groundskeeper-union situation is its confu sion. There is the inevitable initia confusion arising from a complex anc bureaucratic governmental system. Thi: situation has been complicated by poo communication, as Fr. Hesburgh admitte< in his letter in today's Observer. In thi editorial, The Observer will try to clari.f: the situation as it now stands. 
Briefly, the Teamsters Union conductec a "card campaign" among Universit: groundswo:kers and received enough sup­port to petition the National Labor Rela­tions Board for a hearing to decide whether or not an election should be called. A hearing was scheduled for Oct. 12. 
The University, through a leading Chicago law firm, filed for dismissal of the Teamsters' petition because the University had already decided to contract out its groundskeeping work to a local firm and to lay off its groundsworkers on Nov. 1. The groundsworkers had not.been informed of any plans to lay them off and the president of the contracting firm named denied that he had been awarded the University contract, although he had sutmitted a bid. 
The NLRB postponed the hearing indef­contracted firm. Hesburgh said that the University was proceeding more slowly with its decision whether or not to contract out because of ''gross misunderstand­ings." 
We will pass over the contradictions and gaps in communication that have charact­erized this controversy for now and concentrate in this editorial on the next phase of the process. There are several possibilities: 
Perhaps no significant action will be taken by either side until the NLRB hearing. The hearing will probably result in an election, unless the workers decide in the meantime to revoke their petition. 
Once an election is called, any bargain­ing agent nay petition for a place on the ballot. The groundsworkers will then choose among the Teamsters, other inter­ested agents and "No agent." 
The next phase of the process is intimately tied up with the University's decision to contract out its groundswork or to maintain its present crew. If If the University decides to maintain its present crew, it will have to negotiate with the groundskeepers' elected bargaining agent -unless the workers vote for "no 
has received several letters un­against anything. On the contrary, 
initely, because its funding had not come agent." 
signed, signed with initials or its purpose was to show solidarity
through the U.S. Congress, where the If the University decides to contract out 
signed with fanciful nicknames. for something · the cause of social 
HEW appropriations bill has been held up is groundswork and the workers have We cannot print these letters. If justice.by debate over the abortion provisions. chosen "no agent," Notre Dame has "A staff employee," "Paul X." I regret that The Observer University General Counsel Phillip Fac­indicated it will relocate within the and "Gay Caballer" will contact presented the Mass in an erro­
The Observer and identify their neous fashion. I would urge
cenda denied that the University had University those workers who are not 
letters, we will withhold their greater care in the publication of
intended to fire the groundskeepers, employed by the contractor (There seems 
names. The Observer must know articles of such a delicate nature,
saying the Chicago law firm had "made a to bea discrepancy between Hesburgh and 
the names of all contributors to and caution inthe insuring that all
mistake." Director of Personnel Thomas Bull on this point. Hesburgh indicates the protect itself against libel and to 
facts aDd quotes are accurate. 

Bull met with the groundsworkers and told University is planning to follow this contact them in case of extensive them a) the Nov. 1 lay-off date was no course; Bull said it will try.) editing. Thomas G. Soma, Jr. longer effective (from which one would If the University decides to contract out logically infer that it had been at one time), is groundwork and the workers have The non-­Editor's Note: The Observer 
b) if and when the University contracted elected a bargaining agent, the NLRB will stands by its report of what Mr. Soma said. We are sorry this did
out Us groundswork, current groundskeep­have to rule on whether or not the demonstration 
not accurately reflect his meaning.
ers would be given two weeks' notice and University's action constitutes illegal inter­
Dear Editor: 

c) if and when the University contracted ference in the workers' right to unionize. out its groundwork, Notre Dame would If it rules in Notre Dame's favor, the In light of the serious nature of 
University

"do everything in its power" to find University will presumably follow the the groundskeeper situation and 
student attempts to focus attention
current workers jobs in other University course indicated above in relocating work­
on it, I am deeply hurt and · shows
departments or outside the University. workers.. 
disturbed by a quote attributed to
University President Fr. Theodore Hes­Ifthe NLRB rules against the University, 
me in Thursday's Observer.. As 
bur81 announced that the University had Notre Damewill have to negotiate with the one of the organizers of the Mass at Bryant support withdrawn its petition for dismissal and elected bargaining agent in determining the Grotto, I expressed my strong Dear Editor: was working with the NLRB to schedule a the terms of any contracting out proposal. conviction that the Mass was not to representation election for its grounds­However, Notre Dame and the grounds­be used as an instrument of At this point in time it is 
demonstration against the admini­impossible for Anita Bryant to
keepers "without undue delay.'' Res­workers may yet reach an agreement on 
stration of the University. How­make a non-political public appear­
burgh said Notre Dame had planned to their own. We hope that the University 
ever, in the paper I was quoted ance despite statements to the
relocate within the Uni ~rsity any workers and its workers will achieve an under­erroneously as saying just the contrary by Notre Dame officials. that WOUld not be L.Jimilated by the standing that will be beneficial and opposite. A year ago a concert by her satisfactory to both. Since the proposal of a Mass, the scarcely attracted a hundred intent was· that the Mass be people; this month she is booked into the ACC with a capacity for
op1n1o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
thousands. The difference is not due to any improvement in her singing abilities. 
She needn't make any overt political statements; her name
The Tarnished Dome 
alone is synonymous with the anti-homosexual movement she headed in Dade county. In her
---~------------iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~ Iegeay and eran e concert tour Anita Bryant is cash­
ing in on a reputation earned at the The latest pronouncements by firm to do the grounds work, the has not ended; it has only changed prove their working conditions, to expense of the rights of a greatthe Administration concerning the workers will get a two weeks its form. The administration hopes resist yet another patronizing ad­many people. In allowing her to fate of the groundskeepers (Obser· notice. Our benevolent administra­to transfer some groundskeepers, ministration effort to define perform at the ACC this University ver, Thursday, Oct. 13) should not tors will even try to find them jobs while allowing the new firm to "what's good for everyone else". 
is doing the same. 

fool anyone into believing that the elsewhere, thus breaking up an displace others, thus splitting up Finally we call upon everyone to 
issue has been resolved. It has organized work group, struggling those who wish to organize and realize that the . struggle of the Liz Dodgeonly taken on a new form. To to better its conditions. , A plainer discouraging other employees from • groundskeepers is their struggle.summariZe to date: the Administra· case of IIUion-busting has rarely doing. likewise.. , Delays in . the That sb"ugg1e for-·better conditions · tion allows. a story to be printed in ~urred.. · NLRB hearing serve this purpose, , has not ceased, it has only entered Edl~'s ·Note: A typographical 
the local paper stating that 21 and no doubt it is hoped that anew stage. The University is -still en:or on ye11terday's. editorial page
The political and economic moti~
groundskeepers will be laid off. Faccenda's "reassurances" will suppressing the workers who wish dh1torted the meaning of a sentence
vations behind this series of moves
Rationale: the administration placate student protest. to better their lot. The struggle is a In Matt KenneDy's article on the
are no longer in doubt. Indeed,
wants to "automate" its grounds­collective responsibility because no gronndskeepers. We reprint the
they are painfully apparent through 
keeping and snow removal proce­On the contrary, we call upon the student, faculty, or worker will be . sentence below with the deleted
the University's issuance of numer­
dures. How odd that these students to continue and Increase free to live comfortably with and ponion In bold print: 
ous contradictory statements, and
automation plans, ''in the works for their support of the groundskee­from his labor so long as he is "The anti-black discrimination 
absurd "corrections" like "We're
months", are revealed shortly after pers whose struggle for decent controversy of last spring, the
not firing them yet..." The dominated by an arrogant and 
a unionization drive by the same wages through unionization is still proposed eU.mlnatlon of stu­
motivations center on the Univer­patronizing administration, which 
workers begins. How much odder the main issue, and is still very dents from the judicial board, 
sity's placement of economic con­puts economic interests ahead of 
still that the University invests in much with us. Their cause is quite and now the alleged hinder­
siderations above the welfare of its human welfare. When all these 
new maintenance equipment for similar to the students, whose loss ance of the groundskeepers'
workers. Apparently, decent groups finally begin to control the 
use by the groundskeepers shortly of representation in judicial mat­right to organize: all give
wages and medical benefits are conditions of their existence, then 
before the big automation change ters has been much lamented. In cause to wonder when seen in
contrary to the spirit of the "Notre their fortunes will no longer be 
is scheduled to take place. After a Dame family." the final analysis, workers, like subjugated to bureaucratic and the light of constant preaching significant studef!t protest, we are students, seek only to gain a little about "human rights and
elitist interests. 

told that the groundskeepers will It is apparent that the struggle of more control over their own lives. human dignity." 
Support the groundskeepers in
not be fired on Nov. 1; and when the workers for those benefits and We call upon the faculty, them­We apologize to Mr. KenneDy for 
their struggle for unionizationI
the University brings in an outsi~e .for the representation of the union selves involved in efforts to im-the error. 
Being Home When the .Faucets Burst 

Reuerend 
Robert Griffin 
n must be difficult to have as a father someone who is a famous man. The world has claims on famous m~n. They are always off in Hollywood or Washington, being celebrities, usually just when they are needed to carve the Thanksgiving turkey. Their wives and their children must compete for their attention; and though it's lovely seeing Dad on the Johnny Carson Show, the family would rathet" fight him for the car keys than read the cover story about him in Time magazine. One night, the kids realize that Amy Carter gets to see more of their Dad than they do, and they begin to get jealous of Amy Carter. They long for more humble origins; then they begin to feel guilty at the love-hate relationship which is developing between them and the adored parent. The best evenings of their lives, the kids reflect, are the ones spent listening to Papa's stories; but damn, damn, damn, why can't he be home when the faucets burst? 
There is a father-figure at Notre DAme whom all of us share: oldest priest and youngest ccied, laundry person and distin­guished professor. He is one of the first citizens of the world: popes listen to him, presidents defer to him. He is a diplomat, a politician, a prophet invited to sit at the rich man's feast, munching canapes in the heart of the Establishment. There is 
seldom  a  figure  in  public  life  that  can  
match  him  in  integrity  or  virtue.  No  
Watergate  threatens  him;  no  deals  are  

connected with him, and no three hundred dollar suits adorn his peson; no FBI or CIA probes can threaten him with tapes made from hiding places under his hotel bed. Under the honor and excitement of his 
public career, he is a sincere priest, living the simplicities of a life of faith committed in vows of poverty, chastity, and obedi­ence. fhere is a graciousness and innocence to his priesthood, with its fidelities to the Mass, the Breviary, and the Blessed Mother, that is as old-fashioned as Barr Fitz erald playing the role of an Irish 
Just look ouer your shoulder.~;~k~~:~:b~~~~~~~~:{~;~:~1~~~ ~:~~ 

the
Monkees: Revisited 
~Anutf'me or anuwhere :::1 . ' :::1 ' 
'II be
G ess Wh· 0
U . 
Standing there?' 1.. ' 
--MOnr<ee s 
by Jim Coyne 
The time was Sunday, July 31, at approximately 10:32 p:m. The place was the Penalty Box nightclub in Wildwood, 
N.J. Only I wasn't looking over my shoulder, but directly ahead, center stage, at Micky Dolenz, Davy Jones and Coco Dolenz--the Monkees. That's right, the Monkees. Or at least the 1977 version. Gone are Michael Nesmith, and Peter Tork from the original group of four who were pastor. 
Father Hesburgh doesn't need me as a public relations man. Never before, practically, have I ever written a line to praise him, mostly because I never felt he needed it. He doesn't need it now; and perhaps, if he ever reads these words, he will say: "Griffin, mind your own busi­ness." But lately, I've grown restless at the letters written, the speeches made, beginning with the words: "As former chairman of the Civil Rights Commission, Father Hesburgh is a practising hypocrite because ... " All of us, at one time or another, in public utterances or private conversations, seem intent on tapping t. _e walls of Father Hesburgh's life to see if there are hollow noises behind the panelling. He is absolutely dedicated to Notre Dame, and we have to know it. Send him a note, and he'll answer it. Invite him to a party, and if he's in town, he'll show up, though in the next hour he is expecting phone calls from the Shah of Iran. Meet him on campus,· and he'll invite you in, though the hour may keep you up later than the graveyard ghost. There is nobody --nobody, at all--who gives himself more completely to the needs of Notre Dame, or tries to be more attentive to the people of the campus, than Father Ted, even on days when he is lobbying for wheat shipments to the hungry childr~n of Bangladesh. 
Why, then, is there anger on campus that attempts to make so good a man appear to be a hypocrite? Why, for example, did students recently want a Mass said outside hisofficwindow,(offering static to Tom Soma when he insisted on the· Grotto as an alternative site) on the steps of the Administration Building, in a public demonstration urging the cause of human dignity as though Father Hesburgh had no concern about underprivileged minorities, and as though he had not given them their jobs in the first place out of his own attentive commitment to the needs of social justice. Petitioning Ted Hesburgh to be attentive to human dignity, for God's sake! 
Hesburgh, who in May, in an all-out convocation in support of human rights, invited the President of the United States, the Secretary General of the United Nations, and Alexander Solshenitsyn, to­gether with everybody elso who mattered in the Church and the government, to come 
signed to television contracts back in 1966 to portray four rock and roll musicians. But still there is the zany humour, the refreshing showmanship, and the delight­ful change of pace music that enabled the Monkees to sell millions of records, and become· one of the most unique and popular recording artists of their time. 
They opened with a theatrical type song, "I WannaBe Rich and Famous,""which helped set the upbeat tone of the evening. 
we were itty t;~tty bat:iies;·~ a(kording to Micky) and a beautiful renditiot1 of Carole 
~~Y~~;a;e;~s ~·ss::~ ~:~~~4 ~;;~w~~~ 
th me Cagney,'' which· is a. da,*~ ~~t:{Qrmed 
e 
while imprsonating JimmyCag~yi.· ..· 
Then came the part ofthe show that most of the 500 or so spectat<lrs had been waiting for--the old Monkeef !:tits~ Songs like "The Monkees' TheweSong," "I'm A Believer,'' ''I WannaB~ft\¢¢!'(p¢n¢'rned beautifully by D~Y¥• 11-.nP. i~~?(lti¢ed by Micky as "try to t\¢tq.~Wb¢r w:UO yQU were · making out w~t9 W~(:)P ~~~ §P!l~ ·.was number one'')< · Davy "'~~1:1 di;i,i Jl,lbt:t Stewart's "Daydream)lelievet;!' attd the crowd really.· cath¢ te life; N¢;! up was "I'm Not Your S~ppmij ~t9ne," with Micky prancing about 9~tagcF.with .·· an outlandish costuin~, COnJ.ple!e \Vith what looked like sparkling fingertips~ .. Jt was · great! · Suddebly I·was 11 years 9J(f again/ and loving evet'V Jt1inute of it,/ .. ·•·· ·• 
At the conc.ert~s .end,,;t.be<~wd was. 
~~~~:g~~~ ~~T~~ta~~h~~~sofunTh~ 
rumours that I had heard over the past few years were very happily proved false. The Monkees did play their own instruments, they were still very good friends, and Peter Tork was not on skid row, living from handout to handout. Micky was very personable, and looked as though he had ·stepped right out of the Monkees television · show. He was more than happy to sign 
to the campus and be counted. And why 
must we insist, at Notre Dame, in trying to 
exhibit all of our wounds in public, with the 
newspapers and wire services called in to 
hear us say to our leaders: "Physician, 
heal thyself."? 
The answer, I think, is that there is so 
much of us that wants so much of 
Hesburgh, and there are distances be­
tween us that make us feel he does not 
really care. 
Even with God, despite His promise it 
would be otherwise, I wonder if sometimes 
sparrows do flutter to the ground without 
being noticed. Father Hesburgh is not 
God, nor even god-like in his attentiveness. 
He makes mistakes; sometimes, he has 
limited points of view. (At least, they seem 
limited to me, when I don't agree with 
him.) But he tries to be consistent; and on 
issues involving morality of all kinds, you 
know where he stands. He wants the 
students to live as 'decently as ther own 
parents want them to live, and expect them 
to live while they are. in their parents' 
home. He never promised you or your 
parents, or th~ alumni or the trustees, or 
Almighty God and His Blessed Mother, 
that he --as far as his personal and 
delegated efforts are concerned--would be 
anything less than strict in his support of 
the traditional commandments. I think he 
believes anything less would be a betrayal 
of the Catholic heritage of the place. 
Disagree with him, if you want to, but 
don't call the leader a liar. In demeaning 
him, you hurt the place, and you hurt 
yourself. 
Continue to have concerns about your­self, the campus community, the victims of injustice. In all your best concerns, and in most of your lesser ones, Father Hesburgh will support you and be with you, and challenge you to do it better. Does this mean that nobody has been, or nobody ever will be, left neglected or exploited or discriminated. against at Notre Dame? There are always souls who harbor legitimate grievances against somebody on campu'>, ranging from the janitor up to the Blessed Mother herself. The buck stops at Hesburgh's desk, though things look 
different from his point of view, I suspect, than when seen from my point of view. You are not expected, on this side of paradise, to have blind faith in any man, whether he is father, or not. But be 
copies of albums, as was Davy-Jones, who showed me an album someone had given him earlier; his first solo effort, circa 1965. 
In fact, everyone involved with the Dolenz-Jones group, as they are now billed, displayed courtesy, warmth, and helpfulness, in a way that I never expected. They just didn't act like stars are supposed to act. They acted like truly nice people--and they were. Besides being one half of Dolenz and Jones,· Micky is also president of Dolenz Productions, which handles all of th(!ir appearapces, under the sl91I\~tguidance of ~cky' scharming wife. British Trina Dow. I9 a recent issue of the Philadelphia Inquirer, Micky said that Dolenz-Jones was a "hot new act." I 
more. Following is an 
Dolenz. 
start at the begin­

did ev•etvlthilltl! get 
cast 

gentle in your anger, because he can bleed 
too, from lashings he has not deserved. 
While you are bad-mouthing him, you 
might think there are children he is worried 
about in the world's cities, lest they die in 
their sleep tonight of hunger, or perish as 
the victims of war. It is hard to remember 
there are people who daily face such global 
concerns; but Father Hesburgh is one of 
them, and we must share him with the 
human family. 
What a nuisance it is, hav;ng a father 
who is a famous man; how carefully he 
must be guarded, like a public monument. 
But I'm not suggesting that he be 
approached with reverence; he is not, after 
all, the Sistine Chapel. I only recommend 
that you be fair with him, as you should be 
fair with anyone who loves you. Outside 
this campus, he has critics who would love 
to discredit him. You need not make the 
bricks that those critics would be happy to 
pick up and use for stoning him to death. 
You owe him more gratitude than that. 
I really feel that beneath the complaints and exasperations, most of you love, or at least respect, the famous father-figure of Notre Dame. Without him, the campus would not exist as the place that it is, physically, morally, socially, spiritually, or intellectually. He tries to make the place great with his own kind of greatness. You can help him, as he would want you to help him, by keeping him faithful to his vision of a decent world where people live without fear. In whatever times and places you criticize him, begin with the conviction that he is a decent, dedicated man who never stops trying. 
He is not SupermaR; he is not the 
Messiah. He is Father Ted Hesburgh of 
Notre Dame; a man who niust sometimes 
grow weary of being a father to the world; a 
man who --for some of us--is the greatest 
man we will ever meet. There is nothing I 
can write that will add to his greatness. 
But sometimes, when I have been with 
him, and he seems tired, or especially gray 
around the temples, I think: he doesn't 
deserve to be splattered with mud. 
Fortunately, he gets more bouquets thrown at him than he does mud; but these words of mine are intended to say to the mud flingers: "Hey guys, I know you're sincere, but watch what you're doing. He belongs to all of us, even if he isn't home sometimes 
when the faucets burst." 
Dolenz: Yes. Just an album. · 
The Obsel'Ver: What about the movie you put out, "HEAD"? 
Dolenz: Did you see it? 
The Obsel'Ver: Yes. 
Qolenz: It was basically about us, written by us, scripted actually by Jack Nicholson, but conceptually it was all from us. And it was just a weird movie. 
The Obsel'Ver: Was that an attempt to get into movies permanently? . 
Dolenz: Oh, I don't know. I think if it had been .we might have done 
~The Obsel'Ver: abOut now? Are you still interested • pictures? .Dolenz: I am. s iny life, motion pictures and t<;:)c~vj!;ibtli The nh........r.oi;;ei'W1i..t•t1nyou think about the and Davy? 
I are doing this 
then we go to 
"Tom Sawyer," 
Pier (Atlantic

~~1~···~i~~~i~~~~d~o~~Buffalo, I
Miami, Tahoe, all ..,...;..~~-..~ of show 
in

~~i--;·,··~·~~~-~illlliii~~i;~j~,~iiiiiii·;~~;~
·During the course of the interview, many Dolenz: It was a record company. The Obsel'Ver: Is Peter doing anything 
The Obsel'Ver: Why was the record released? 
Dolenz: To sell records! 
The Obsel'Ver: There was still a big enough market that wanted to hear you? 
Dolenz: Oh sure. 
The Obsel'Ver: The most recent album with Boyce and Hart--was that just a one shot deal? 
musically now? 
Dolenz: I heard he's going to be at CBGB's tonight. But he didn't tell me anything about it. 
The Obsel'Ver: Why did you come to the ·Jersey shore: Dolenz: Frankly, we just got an offer from • our agent, got the dates, and set them. '[ eel m 
1 contlna oa ...ae 7J 


@1977 Miller Brewing Co., Milwaukee, Wis. 

• ,l',J ·' .••• J ·.·,·

,.......·.. ... . . . ..... a.··················.·.-. ... ....... ·, .......Thinks cqllege is one big time-out . 
.·..~.··...~.. ~·,;·.·....~ ..~..·.. •..•.•,•_"'.,................................•.·...~~. /.·.·:•:\::1..).\.tJ".. hOI''· ldf . t· pi d. fl I,-. .•
I. 
J,j J' ~··," • l • , •, • I~ T :

·''•:-··. ·-~··. ~·:.·/.·.<·:..·.-~ ·1;'..11/-· <'...·.·:..·,·/..-·.•.·. . ... · ..·.-.·.~ sc o, ..rec:-e-r or f!lOS games• ~Y.~ .· :: . ..,., .::·•·~ ·~ 
1
I' " ' . "J ' ' ~ ' ' ' ... • ' • . 't"\ cca·~ d t dr p 7 d 3 . d
~~::·~/~<.:~;:.;:~·;:l-::-v,·:/.~~,_.~,<.>./~;:;::-;-~;··:.::··/:::-,::-.-.·:)~:~ ~·..~~--~..~-~e . o· ·Q ..·_._pas~es ~n cou.rses 1n s_a_me ay.
&;,:. ~ ~'·····' v.,•.·. ·· ... "~~-:-;·.;~:-;.:.;-::::-:--:·:.·:·:··-.-.:·:-..::r;•,··::. ~1 A':li'\J:... Lite ·Beer frnm,Mrl1er because 1t's less f1ll1ng
fiF 'i.IJ.<'I'I.Ir..•.'l',. _.,.......~~. M-..9~ '~·\..'-..... ';.'~,. : ·x.·'l. · • '-'·''·'' · · . ~""·~·-··· .. \..~,o~_J',J1 .. \.l\3 . .YII::II I 1 • ·., I • 1 1 · /: 1 1 o' • • ~ 1, f 1{ It 1, ', " 
With his schedule he can't afford to get filled up. Today he has to be in two places at once. Insists on playing center and quarterback. Spends spare time going to class. 
Lite Beer from Miller. Everything you always wanted in a beer. And less. 

the observer 

Keenan triumphs over Grace, 7-0 

Digger Phelps discussed the upcoming season last night in Zahm Hall. [Photo by Doug Christian] 
by Florenceanne Strigle 
Renoir's, Picasso's, and Van 
Gogh's covered bulletin boards and 
walls of Notre Dame buildings,· 
and, in the case of sandwich board 
carriers, appeared literally on the 
student body during the past week 
they announced the fifth annual 
print sale held in the lobby of 
LaFortune Student Center. 
The sale, which offered reprints 
of classical and ocntemporary art­
ists and Indian plates, was co­
sponsored by W askewich Gallery of 
Long Island, New York and Notre 
Dame Sudent Activities. Accord­
ing to the gallery's two representa­
tives, Jeff Repinski and Keith 
Colea, response was "really excel­
lent." 
W askewich Gallery, a business 
composed of 75 families, sends 
teams to colleges all over the 
country selling reprints. "We are 
the biggest enterprise of this type 
in the United States," said Colea, 
"But this does not allow us to 
rip-off people!" he quickly added. 
Instead, Colea said that Waskewich 
hopes to provide more service and 
better profits to schools so that they 
,,___ :_" ~-1:-1...&
... __
• ~Y~iana •• u~iiYiii 
A vegetarian dinner will be held in Lewis basement Sunday at 5 
p.m. The dinner sponsored by ND/SMC World Hunger Coalition is open to the public and admission is free. 
IM5nkees: l 
1· ·-Reuisited 
[continued from page 7] 
The Observer: How have the 
crowds been? 
Dolenz: Excellent! We play 
small places. We play lounges, like 
Reno, Tahoe, and it's all the same. 
The Observer: What do you 
think of this area? 
Dolenz: I like it! During the 
summer it's nice. 
The Observer: Do you miss the 
old days ... with the TV show? 
Dolenz: Yeah, I miss doing 
television. I'd rather be doing that 
than anvthing. 
could maintain permanent relation­ships. . As an example of his cOinpany's guud wilL Coiea sighted the fact that although Notre Dame invited W askewich Gallery to re turn this year, charging them the same fee as last year; W askewich paid Notre Dame twice the amount because of previous success here. 
Another way Colea and Repinski tried to ingratiate themselves to Notre Dame students was by offering an opportunity to obtain reprints free. By working one hour, students received one reprint ing for Zahm in the second period when he scrambled for 23 yards into the endzone. The conversion failed, and the score remained 6-0 until the fourth quarter when fullback Bob Edelman drove "up the middle for an eight yard touch­down. 
Stanford was able to mount a threat late in the game, but was turned back by a tough Zahm defense. The Stanford team did receive fine performances from linebacker John Jannazo and quar­back Dom Jarda. 
After Wednesday's contest, both teams have two games remaining on their schedule. 
[continued from page 12] 
yards, with running back Tim McCarthy rushing for 110. 
Keenan and Grace remain as the top two teams of their division. Keenan has one game remaining with Zahm, while Grace has two games left to play. 
In another game played W ednes­day night, Zahm shutout Stanford by a score of 12-0. The victory gave Zahm a 2-2 record for the season. Stanford remains wiriless with three losses and one tie in four contests. 
Steve DeGroot opened the scor-
Classical reprints sold again 
.,...............-.......,...., ........,......... , ................,.......... 
or an equivalent discount on more expensive reprints. "We never i:urneci anyone down if they wartted to work," pointed out Repinski. "We want students to realize this is a service. People think we're in this because we're making a mil­lion but we're not!" he stressed. 
Colea and Repinski could not estimate the volume of their sales at Notre Dame. However, they· did venture to name Notre Dame's two most popular reprints by the num­ber sold: Van Gogh's Starry Night and Picasso's Don Quixote. 
J'.......... 
· 
FOREIGN
~l 
~,.,.~ 
CAR PARTS CO.
REGIONAl DISTRIBUTOR 
complete line of rebuilt clutches, brake shoes, brake pads, generators, starters, & alternators , 
Parts and Accessories 
·-~­
ior ALL Makes of Foreign Cars 
215 Dixie Way N. 
in Roseland-U.S. 31 N. -1hblock N. from Pendle St. 
SOUTH BEND, IND. 46637 CALL: 219 272-7107 
OPEN l:l:a.m.-6:00 p.m. MONDAY THRU SATURDAY 
SAVE 10% ON ALL 
PARTS WITH ND ID CAR 
~···~··························· 
: ·-TIMM PARTY STORE : 
.:OPEN: MON-SAT 9 lQl1-11 pm: : • SUNDAY 12 noon .• 11 pm ' : •
• BEER SALE • 
: 3114 S. 11 ST. NILES, MICIDGAN: 
! 1 Block North of state line on U.S. 31 : --. -. .; 

FRANKS PLACE Restaurant_& Lounge 


327 W._ Marion St. South Bend , Ind. Phone 232-2277 See Our Package Liquor Store Serving lunch, etc. 11 am to 2 pm 
5 :00 to 12 :00 six days a week 
ATTENTION SENIOR TRIPPERS MANDATORY INFORMATION MEETING 
Monday Oct 17 at 7 pm 
• ._I r-• A I•.. •
in Irte tngineerifig Aiiuiiorlum Ticket Packages Will Be Distributed 
PLEASE ATTEND 
Notre Dame Student Union & Sunshine Present 
SATURDAY NOVEMBER 5 7:30pm 
NOTRE DAME A.C.C. All Seats Reserved; $8.50 & $7.50 
On sale now at: ACC box offim, Student ticket offim, Rllbertson's-S": Bend & ConCDnl Mall, Finl Bank-Main Branch only, St. Joe Bank & all branches, Boogie Records, Just For The Record, The ReCDnl Joint-Niles, The Elkhart Trvth and Suspended Coni in Elkhart 
Friday, October 14, 1977
10 the observer l 
classifiedsclassifiedsclassifieds~}~~~§.~~dsclassfiedsclassifiedsclassifiedsclassfi'¢lU 
Implications of Wisdom fro Matt Brun-, yansky on his celestial mathmatlcal impetus 
B.A. Flanner 326 McCandless 
DON. What do you do when you've read your personals In the Observer once? Read them again ! ! ! ! 
DPB Looked high and low for a Hawaiian shirt, but this personal will have to do. Hapy 21st 
Lynn 
Don Borchers is spending his 21st birthday ·ifl the local bars. Look forhim and buy him a drink. 
To Julie in Regina Haii:Sorrv we were out when you called the othernight, we are pretty busy o·1er in 1011 you know, Stop b some time ot find ou the Real Story B~~.;no-1011 Flannerll 
I?I I Flanner sasy Go Davey Mitchell!! 
You wanna know what's really going down in 1011 Flanner? Call us-Derse 1id!! 
~-------:1 
Gale Warapins-what do you want, an engraved invitation? 1011 usually doesn't send them out'! 
Computer Center office #15 what are you doing reading our personals??? 
REGINA Fifth Floor Flusles congratulate our Mom Eckrich on her wedding engagement. We all wish you a beautiful life together. 
Meed ride to IU-Bioomington Friday. Call Vicki 6751 
Happy B-day Katie. Two down, one to go!$ Love, Mardi &KB 
Hi Kids' Keep warm, Eat r,our Vetgetables, Don t drink, smoke, swear or fool around. Study hard-­
But have fun! Love', Mom. Aunt Reb & Aunt Ren 
classes, no moms, and no plddly crap! 
. I 
I 
:---------= 
'~
' 
lHE 
"144'' 
IS lHE DIFFERENT 
DINv10ND 
Ordinary diamonds have 58 facets. The '144' has 144 facets. The difference in cut makes the · 144' 32% • more briii)CJnt, ,l~s ,PA,tep1e<;l ,1.~4•..• proc;;es.::; .br~n!Qs. o4t .all Jts ,' natural brilliance. ·A111d, the ·,,,., most. a'mazi.ng· thing of all is the price. The '144' costs no more than ordinary dia­monds. Come in and see the different diamond ... the '144'. You'll be amazed. ·According to Zeiss report. 
~ " )to. ~ (. ' . ,. . t~· 
'"~ ,_/· 
"' 

An Ordtnary 58 Brtlltant 144 
From one D.A.P. to another: T.G.I.F.! ' Five more days and we'll be in heave-no 
·~o« <~rlt 
Laslla-I'm still vary heartbroken. Good luck on your GRE's. Bobby 
PAUL~ Our Blue Nun bottle is a year old tomorrow! Thanks for my ahppiest year ever. I love you. 
Ren. 
Maureen & Leslie, My key already has rusted. I guess I don't rate 1 Thanx?­
Steve 
Maureen and Murdock, J'v1uch Thanx for the cards & letters. Without you my mail key would have long rusted over. 
Jimmy 
DON'T FORGET TO WISH GARY A HAPPY BIRTHDAY ON MONDAY (2­3313;) 
l&B.;JO FREE 
'EVERYONE'S INVITED TO THE BLOCK PARTY TONJTE!! 
Don'T FORGET FELLS• Saturday, Oct­ober 15 is Sweetest Day. 
Bill W. of NO Soccer Team, Your most loyal fan says 'hi!' G 
Girls, ONCE in a lifetime Chance!$ Stanford Hall, Section 2 North-South, is now taking applications for an evening of SHEER ECSTASY. Dates are now being sought for the Nov. 5CSM concert. Seats are available on the main floor in rows 2-7 
:center stage!! If interest call: rooms
229.. 23o. 231.232.233.234.236.237.240. 
241.243.
Don't forget, Tell a friend! ! ! 
From: The 19 people on the other side of the lake-
To: The 1-H Football Teams...
"WE ARE THE SPOILERS" 

cut Diamond Cut Dtamond 
Quart Case $5.80 
~¥~!~~~~~~ 
Tomorrow night may be your last chance to see "If 1should Die... "Library Aud. 
Token Phil,

Happy Birthday 1 day late. Thanks for · the Federal Funds. 
C.M. C. M.D. 
Vote BETH TOOMEY for Freshmen Council and have a GREAT year! 
TO THAT CUTE C.C. SOPRANO: Niee pair!. .. and tllanks for the very best year. Can I take you home with me? 
Arno 

Special Announcement: There will be Free Love Testing tonight outside N&S Dining Halls in honor of ''How's Your Love Jive?", multi-media show TONIGHT 
• Library Aud. #&8:30 FREE ROSEMARY: Welcome to SMC-ND.... Now that your here how about taking a qu1ck trip... "A weekend In New England"? Should be 
J ll.J IJ ' 

~~ ~-G_,·-~..s;;:~~-.,...-;:~h·"---­
After a week, It's still on. It's october 14 and ...(oops! than's yhou line(
The future M M 
Deares Bathing Beauty, 

I've caught Makos, Marlins too, but my best catch by far is you. I've cherished moments on the sez, but life with you is ecstasy. May all yoiur days lack Pamlico nights. Happy Birthday. 
Love, Your Happy Hooker 
Kathleen LaManche 
Happy Belated Birthday Hope it was the 
greatest 
Mary Beth, Karen Anne, Jenny Lynn & Lim Ann 

. · .-----------------....
1 \
I LET IT ~ ~ @~ ' ' 
1 • • 1 The Zahm . Farley 

1\ 
Bellows Gin 1/2 gal $7.89 
'I ..J··.t' 
· ,·_, I 
Canada Dry Vodka Quart $3.99 
Carlings 
· Having a Party? Why not invite some Special Guests! 
Old Milwaukee 

4 LOCATIONS 
Quart Case $5.80 

... _OPEN. TILL· 11·. P.M.·o··· ... ·~· 

t. ,,~.Q.'l, ~~J',J'. ,',,: ,· '_,'J:.: 'l•' l;l ,....~,.;) ~ .•' · ,,·:il .~ (• r 
~ •, •: ', i .J L 
·~~ _..·:. ·• Town·& ·count, ce"tre 
,, I. 
,~, ,•-: I :, ~· • O :~·.\I ,,. .,~·,I 

McKilltty at Hickory Rd. 
Bacardi R'um · · 

Phone 259-3262 
• River Park Liquor 
Quart $4.99

2411 Mishawaka Ave. 
Phone 289-3868. 
• Portage Party Shop 836 Portage Avenue 
Jim Beam

Phone 232-8858 
• 12th St. Liquor Store 1753 12th St., Mishawaka 
112 gal $10.90 

Phone 259-8634 
10% Discount for ND students with ID
.Suulla ll('wJ. Im.liunu 
CDilvenient aedit tenns 
1
I I 
~ >· 
Classified Ads! 
NOTICES 2-4 USC GA tickets Call 288-0088
Learn to play pocket billiards in the poolroom of LaFortune Student Center Wanted: 5USC tickets. Call Paul at 1Q41under the Huddle. Just see the student manager on duty for help. 
Desperately need 2 G.A. Georgia Tech I tix. Help! Call Mike 1687NEED QUALITY TYPING? Executary, Inc. Professional Typing Service IBM 
----------------------1
Need 2 U.S.C. tickets G.A. Call Bill atCorrecting Selectrics $.85/page min­
8270
imum Call 232-0898 "When you want the Best" 
WANTED: 4 U.S.C. tickets. will pay good moeny. 256-1487.
Someone to help tutor mentally impaired adults. Need 6hrs. in Education and car. 
You are never going to believe this! I$6.25/hr. Call Mark 1624 need fifteen Georgia Tech G.A. tickets. Please callgeoff at 1083Gay Community at N.D. Guide to ND/SB Pandora's or Box 206 N.D. 
Available 1student ticket USC NEEDED 1 GA or Student Tic GA Tech Call1136Gay Community of N.D. INfollne Fri. & Sat. 1D-12 p.m. 8810. 
DES,ERATELY NEED I USC ticket Good $ Call Mike 3119Accurate typing call Carolyn 232-9061 II Wanted: 4 USC tics will pay big bucks 
Call 8341 Accurate, Fast Typing Mrs. Donoho 232-0746 Hours BAM to 6PM Call Now!! Two Ga USC tickets for sale. 
Dial 3583 ask for Rick Experienced Minstrels. Serenading a specialty. Call Ringo and Jester 8234 
Need ride to Southern Tier of N.Y. after USC game. Willing to share expenses
Attention-talented or otherwise persons 
and driving. Please call Jill 6446. interested in performing in the Nazz. We have openings. Call John at1575 for info 
Wanted: 2Student USC tickets. Will pay $Call Suzy or Diane 5148 MORRISSEY LAON FUND STUDENT LOANS $20-$1501 day at 1% 
WANTED: Desperately need four stu­interest due in 30 days Lafortune Base­
dent or GA Georgia Tech tickets. Call 
ment M· f 11:15-12:15 Mary 4-4767 
CONTACT LENS WEARERS: Save on 
NEED SIX GA CLEMSON tix Call Leo brand name hard and soft lens supplies. 
287-7051 Send for free illustrated catalog. Contact Lens Supplies, Box 7453. Phoenix. Arizo­
NEED SIX SOUTHERN CAL TIX MARK no 85011 
287-7051 
To the individual who stole the day pack Need 2 GA tix for USC Call Jim 8708 
and calculator out of the K of C tuu. night, please consider this:the pack had Desperately need 2 STeve Miller tickets. 
much more worth than simply a monetary 
Call 283-8619
value, and I can't afford to replace the calculator. Please return what isn't yours. 
NEED RIDE BACK TO NO AFTERK. Kress 3414. 
BREAK. CAN LEAVE FROM PHILA, DELPHIA,NYC AREA. CALL MARTI
LOST AND FOUND 277-2483 or 1715. 
Lost. 1 pair of gold-rimmed Bi-focal Premium Price Paid for 2 USC tix. Ga or 
glasses at Pep Rally. Contact Kevin 1391 Student Call Steve at 7471 or 288-0088 
Lost or Stolen: brown. suede McGregor Desperately need 6 Georgia Tech GA tix coat on Oct. 3S. dimng hall return and no 
Call Marilyn 234-0982
questions asked. 272-5786 Need Ride Back to N.D. from Miami U. Lost: Balck leather wallet. Need license 
Cincinnati Area after break. John 8981 and other 10. Reward Call Robert 1465 
8881188888888888888 
WANTED: U.S.C. GA. tickets for parentsLost: silver i.d. bracelet at football game -Please Call 4-4774
Sat. If found call Ellen 7962 Need someone to drive a car to NEW
Found: :0 bracelet 256-0819. Please call 
LONDON* CT. (anytime dunng October)to ident1fy 
Phone: 291·1561 
Found: pair of girls' shoes at the DT Need Ride to Omaha for Fall Break Callsection party in Morrissey Friday mght. 
Colin, 8689
Call 3414 NEED RIDE TO CINCINNATI* HAMIL,
Lost: brown wallet in ACC racquetball TON OR VICINITY ON Fnday 21 court Reward. Call Mark 1723. 
October. Share Expenses. Jeff 8994 
Lost. balcke leather wallet in ACC NEED 1 GA ticket to USC any price Call Personal items are Important to owner. 
1043
Please return. cal 1 3116 DESPERATELY NEED RIDE NORTH OF Found: on sidewalk 1976 Holy Cross 
CHICAGO SATURDAY* OCT. 15th SO Preparatory class ring Call Denise 4-5402 
EARLY AS POSSIBLE. CALL SUZY 
5361 Will pay $ Lost: National Semiconductor Calculator in O'Shag REWARD Call 3336 or 3333 
Need 2 GA. USC or Nasvy tickets Call 
Randy 862.2 Lost: anavy blue Notre Dame windbreak­er linecl. Brand new no name. Left in 
WANTED RIDE TO CENTRAL N.J. OR North Dining Hall. Call Frank 3215 
CLOSE BEFORE OR AFTER USC CALL 
MARK 8785 Lost: SMC 10 and other valuable items at Kubiaks. Friday Oct. 7. If found please 
WANTED: Several young men to help us call JoAnne, 4-5778 $REWARDS 
with a promotion. Cash pay-no door to door selling. Contact Miss Edie at the Lost: Brown leather wallet on Saturday 
Knights 272-0312 or 272-8471 the 8th. If found, please call John at 3074. Reward. 
BrQ.ther and sister need ride to Cham­paign Ill. area after USC game. Will Found: one walking cane at Grace Hall 
share expenses. Call 4-5181 or 1811 party Oct. 1 on 8th floor. Call1747 WANTED: 8 GA Navy tickets: together if Found: Miniature poodle near campus 
possible. Will pay$ Call 288-0952 after 6 Call 234-5120 after 10 a.m. 
pm 
Desperate' Ride Needed to New England frosh is in fits Please 4-4728 Lost: Football ticket with id. This poor 
or E. New York State for ,break, , Will share gas, dri~ing, and all_e~e.Qs~ Call . Lost: IN MUSIC PRACTICE ROOM ON 
Mike 8327 • PIA-NO: A timex watch w/o bandp senljmental value. No questions. Call 
Wanted: 2 female students to .sublet 8570 . ·.·• . 
campus view apt. Cal Kathy 6781 · 
ARE YOU A SKIER? in Psychology Auoitorium, Haggar Hall. 
Lost or stolen: Tl-50 calculator on Oct. 12 
Free skiing plus income. Please return. No questions asked. Call 
Become an instructor at Royal Valley Ski Mike 1852. 
Resort only 12 miles from Notre Dame. Attend meeting at Royal Valley, Main TYPIST WANTED: Full time, to type set 
STreet, Buchanan, Michigan, October 16 display advertising, Monday and Wenes­
at 4:00 Michigan time or call Director, day thru Saturday afternoons and/or 
Kitty Martin, 695-5495 or Royal Valley evenings. Hourly pay. Experience help­
695-3847 ful, but not necessary. Apply in person at 
Royal Valley has 12 runs and is installing :The Penny Sa'.c · 2102 S. Michigan St., 
.two new quad-chair lifts this season South Bend. 28<: J411. Need 4 tickets for Southern Cal. game. Desperately need ride to Binghamton, 
Call Paul 1-219-745-2892 collect or Kim NY after USC game. Will share 
284-5369 
expenses. Call Rick 3583 Need 2 student tix for USC for girlfriend and friend. 
I WANT TO BRING MY PARENTS UP FOR THE NAVY GAME IIIEED 2 GA'S DAVE 8589 
WANTED: an accurate. efficient sec­retary to work with students. Must be able to type 40 wpm and have good telephoine voice. Call Joe or Ricke at 6413 from 2-4 MWF 
Need ride to Champaign. Ill. for break. Call Mark 8981 
NEW ORLEANS looking for riders Sun., after U.S.C., heading south to N.O. via Louisville, N;~shville, Birmingham. Call 1378-JAY 
WANTED: 5 GA Navy tickets Call Phil 8762 
DESPERATE FOR ONEY NAVY G.A. TICKET CALL BILL 8858 
Need Six GA Clemson tix Call Leo 287-7051. 
Need Six SOUTHERN CAL TIX Mark 287-7051. 
Need 2 GA tix for USC Call Jim 8708 Wanted: 5 USC tickets. Call Paul at 1424 
Desperately need 2 G.A. Georgia Tech Tix. Help! Call Mike 1687. 
Need 2 USC tickets GA Call Bill at 8270. 
USC student or GA tix Wanted. West Coast clients will pay premium 272-7360 after 6 p.m. 
Addressers Wanted IMMEDIATELY! Work at home -no experience necessary --excellent pay. Write American Service 8350 Park Lane, Suite 269, Dallas Tx 75231 
Need five use GA tickets Call Jim 8376 
WANTED: 4tickets together to any home game. Call 289-9530 (Debbie) after 6 pm. 
Desperately need 2-4 GA tickets to Navy Please Help Call 4-4956 
Babysitter wanted for 2 infants-week­days 3 to 4 pm. 233-9535 or 289-3668 
Wanted$$? Need So. Ca. vs NO football tix Oct 22-Sprts' Tour at 3050 W. 7th street, L.A. Calif. 90005. Call (213) 384-1951. Could also use 4 tixs for any home game. 
So. Cal. vs Nd football tickets Oct 22­Sprts Tour 3050 W. 7th Street L.A. Calif. 90005 (213) 384-1951. Will pay $$ Also could use 4 tix for any home game. 
NEED RIDE-tp Bostom-Providence area for October Break. Will pay. drive Call Pat 4-4146 
Working or college girl to share 2-bed­room apt. near IUSB . Call 288-2418 
On Oct. 17, vote Ann Grzybowski Freshman class council 
On Oct. 17, Vote ANN GRZYBOWSKI freshman class council 
On Oct. 17th VOTE for Lisa Brinkman for Smc Freshman Council 
NEED: Ride to Houston, Dallas, San Antonio, or Austin for Break Share exp., etc. 2942 
WANTED: WILD WOMEN AND WILD MEN AT THE BLOCK PARTY 
Need 4 GA USC tickets and 2 student. Kathy 272-3634 
Need ride to Cincinnati after USC game­call Steve 1720 
Need ride to IU Bloomington Friday. Call Vicki 6751 
Need 2 USC GA tix will pay $$ 4-4438$ 
Need ride from central New York back to Notre Dame after October break Wi II share whatever. Call Mark 1852 
Ride needed to Cincinnati or vicinity, Oct 2Q qr 2,1st-Joap ,1?&0,
. ... .. '. 
.·.NEED RIDE 10 BLOOMINGTON TO .. ~~~.D.~Ap .Sun. Oct. 31 JB 8946· 
NEED RIDE TO NYC OR LOING ISLAND AFTER SO. CAL. ALSO NEED RIDE BACK TO ND BEFORE NAVY GAME. WILL SHARE DRIVING AND EX, PENSES. Rob 8464 
Wanted: Ride to NYC area for October break. Will share driving & expenses. Call Jim at 1436 
Wanted: Ride to NYC area for Oct. Break. Will Share driving and expenses. Call Ray at 1436 
Wanted: 3 USC tickets Call Rod at 1461 
NEED 1-3 GA USC TICKETS. BIG MONEY. CALL KEVIN 8713 
mikal Sego, Thanks for taking the long hike accross the quads! We could never forget ya •­You're the Best, 
MB & Tab 

xoxoxoxoxoxo 
NEED TWO MILLER TIX AND TWO USC STUDENT CHRIS 1610 
Parents coming from SEATILE for first big visit to N.D. need 2G.A. tix to Georg. Tech. Martha 4-4728 
Need ride to Peoria Ill. Friday afternoon Call Steve 8422 
NEED RIDE TO MASSACHUSETIES WILL SHARE USUAL. CALL TOM 1485 
Looking for 2 GA tickets to USC. Call JOe, evenings. 234-0980 
Ride needed this Friday to North Jersey /NYC area. CAll Bruce 3587 
Will Trade 2 CSN tickets & $ for 3 or 4 Steve Miller Call 8166 
Will trade stud. SC tic and$ for 2 Georgia Tech GA's Call 233-7604 
Need one GA. TICKET FOR Georgia Tech. call Mary: 1263 
I need USC tix Call Tom Basile 233-8288 
Part-time Janitorial work available. Morning hours required. Call Sweeney or Tony at COrby's 233-0438 after 2 pm 
Will pay big bucks for 2 good SC tix. 
Mike 3693 
Need 2 USC GA's will pay$$$ Call Greg 6863 
RIDE NEEDED FOR OCT. BREAK TO WASH. D.C. AREA CALL DONNA 8042 
Need a USC ticket Call 6814 
Wanted: 4 GA or student USC tix. Call Step h 4-5424 
Wanted: 4 USC tickets Will pay good bucks. Call Jim at 1419 
Need 2 Southern Cal Tix. Beth 272-2340 
Needed: five G.A. tix for USC Call Telana 4-5745 
I WILL BE FOREVER INDEBTED TO YOU if you sell a pair of G.A. tickets for the U.S.C. game. My parents wante to come and cheer for Old Notre Dame. Will pay$$$$$ Call Mary 1313. 
Wanted: One student USC ticket. Call Chuck at 1436 
Wanted: Desperately need 6 G.A. tix to any home game. Call Crhis at 1158 
Need 4 USC G.A. tix Will pay$, Call Ron 1423 
·----------------­
Wanted: 4 GA tickets for Souther Cal. Will pay good bucks. Call 1423, ask for Mike. 
FOR SALE 

FOR SALE: 2 G.A. usc tickets Best offer 8845 
FOR SALE: 1 student season ticket. Call 8364 
AUDIO OUTLET: stereo equipment, tv's, CB's, WHOLESALE Call 7781 
1 G.A. S.C. Ticket For Sale Will take hightest bid 1776 
FOR SALE 3 U.S.C. student tix Call mike 6842 NOW 
FLANNER RECORDS-An on-campus student run record shop. We stock all new releases and can order any album still being produced. Also available­blank tapes, components, accessories, pre-recorded a-tracks & cassettes-Prices $6.98 List LP's only $4.50-$7.98 list LP's only $5.29 $7.98 list tapes only $5.45 FLANNER RECORDS 322 Falnner. Phone 2741. Hours 4-5, 6:30-8?30 M-th. Sun 2-3:30 
FOR SALE: 1974 Fiat Spider Convertable 26,000 miles. Mint condition. $2850.00 Call 259-8804 
PERSONALS 

WANTED: Need 2 ge~eral · admissi~n tickets for Georgia Tech Call 4-4146 
Cute, and Good Conversationalist des­perately needs ride ot and from Philadel­phia area Oct. Break shared expenses too! Pat 5246 
'Need ride to Stl. Louis for October Break Call 4-4101 
Desperately need ride to Ft. Lauderdale for October Break 4-4101 
Help Pam find Georgia Tech Tickets for family 4032 
VOTE MARTE MEGARGLE FOR FROSH. Council SMC 
This Wlllkand only! Carol Roberts will be 1111klng he!' triumphant mum ·to MD 
Contact  Maru 6847  or  Mo  6856 for  
details.  
HAPPY  %/ST  BIRTHDAY  JOHN  

HAGALE* NEVER BEEN KISSED* BUT BADLY SLOBBERD UPON 
JOHN* H. Tonight's the Night .... Maybe. 
Anyone who lives in Park Jefferson Apts. please call Steve at 1478 
CONSUME FOOD* DRINK* AND VAR, IOUS OTHER PLEASUREABLE THINGS AT THE BLOCK PARTY 
DON'T FORGET THE BLOCK PARTY ATNORTH QUAD FRIDAY 7:30-11:30 PM 
Will trade two excellent Steve Miller tickets for two good CSN tickets or one USC ticket. Call lan 3591 
VOTE FOil EXPERIENCE! ELECT Margie Brassil for Freshmen Council 
LEWISIO'S -open Fridays at 7 PM fine food and entertainment for reservations/ info phone 3735 
CAN GIVE YOU RIDE TO COLUMBUS, PORTSMOUTH* OHIO AFTER USC GAME NEED RIDE BACK TO NO AFTER BREAK. OAN 3249 
ZIG,ZIG ZNACATAB, Happy Birthday! Sorry we can't say it in Chinese.. LOVE* the Farley Suitees 
Gig, Happy Birthday ! ! ! Now that your 18? Lagna? The Gang 
Laurie & Mark Happy Sweetest Day! SF 
Chad, just (plain) because ... guess who?!! 
Deare D.T. Yank(Doug, right?( You gotta love those Dodgers! Love, "Kah-ren" 
Wanted: one luscious, sexy, good looking real special blonde for S.M. concert. Call secretary at 1812 for more info. 
Heather, Stop by and see me on Saturday night. Michael 
Hey, 1011 Flanner­203 Farley feels neglected! No more invitations for you. Apologies-if effusive wi II be considered. 
Guppy Lips, lhad a nickname once! That's all. 
Dear Luke, Thinks are bigger & better in Texas.$ G.R. 
Girls in 329 I love ya Pat 
Luke You're Crazy 
Bob, Diane wants to know. "How's Your Love Life?" Fri. Oct. 14, 7 & 8:30 Lib Au d. 
Max. 
A lovely Lyons lass does not want to be lonely on her birthday Call Susie at 1915 and improve her love life! 
HANSOME RUGGE ITALIAN LOOKING FOR FEMALE COMPANION OVER OCT. BREAK. PREFERABLY AT, TRACTIVE SMIC CHICK FOR MORE INFO CALL Jim lngolia 3104 or visit 102 
HOLY CROSS  
Jim-You got your woman, witnesses, now pay up.  I  have love,  

Angela 
Helen of Troy Clues: The ACC has two and asix pack of Miller has twelve If the sun shines on the Dome at noon where does it shine at 27 after? 
John Be prepared my visit could cost plenty-3 carats;· a golden tan, and my silver tan could be too much for a TV star. Thanks; Mae 
TO THE MINSTRELS: You sing beaut­ifully! Thanks for the serenade Wednes­day night. Come again anytime! Also­special thanks to whoever sent you.

I I (Wish I knew who it was!) I Mary Mace
i 
i 33QBadin 1 , , 
Drugs, Samba & Walt, Try to be a bit more tactful for your interviews. Thqse elastic knee pads clash with your three piece suits. 

• more on page 1 0 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------~----------------~ 
12 the observer Friday, October 14, 1977 
Irish gridders to wage war on Army 
by Paul Stevenson On the following Saturday, Army 
Sports Editor was blanked by Colorado, 31-0. Last week, the Cadets chalked up another victory, slipping past Vil­lanova, 34-32. 
Although Notre Dame enthusi­asts eye Ross Browner as a possible Reisman Trophy winner, the Ca­
.;~·~1 
Scott Zettek and the remainder of the Irish defensive line must constantly pressure Army quarterback Leamon Hall to stop the Cadets' attack. [Photo by john Calcutt] 
be the first confrontation for the two independents in the state of New Jersey. The Irish, capturing victories in the last six contests, hold a decisive 30-8-4 edge in the series which began in 1913. 
The Cadets are entering the game with a 3-2, won-loss ledger. Army opened their 1977 campaign defeating Massachusettes, 34-10, and downing Virginia Military In­stitute the following week, 27-14. In their third clash against Boston 
College, the Cadets faltered, 49-28. two and Kirk Thomas, lead the Cadets
Paul Stevenson :;:;::=============::;:;::=====::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;.:;:;:;:;:;-:::::·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:-:·:·:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-::;:;:;:;::::::::::::::::::::=:-::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;.;:;.;:;:;.;:;.;::-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:·:· 
The Irish Eye 
·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:-:-:-:-:-:·:-:-:-:;:·:::::::::::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::::::::·:::·:·:·:·:-:-:.;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;.;:;.;.;:;.;-::;:;:;.;-:-:-:·:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:·:·:·:·:-:-:·:·:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:::·:·:::·:::·:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-::;:;:;:::;::::::: Football Picks 
dets boast their choice, Leamon Halh Hall passed for two touch­downs and ran for two others, to rally Army to its 34-32 victory over the Wildcats. 
Army fell behing 14-0 in the first quarter, but regained ground in the third period on an 18-yard touch­down pass from Hall to flanker Greg MaGlasker. They sealed their winning outcome with a fhree touchdown outburst in the final period. Two of those scores came in the final minutes of the 
Last week's college gridiron play found Southern Cal and Oklahoma bowing from the ranks of the undefeated. Wisconsin, a team nobody has taken seriously, won their fifth straight, defeating Illinois. The real test for the Badgers will be tomorrow. when Wisconsin travels to Ann Arbor to take on the Wolverines. 
After a one week sabbatical, the Irish return to gridiron play against Army. The Cadets, although many do not expect them to be a challenge for the Irish, may prove to be a very tough opponent. 
Jf teamon Hall has a field day, the Irish are going to have their problems before a capacity crowd of 76,891 in Giants Stadium. The Irish must be set for this game and cannot be anticipating their clash with the Trojans in one week. 
So, with the assistance of Greg "Journal" Solman, here are the Irish Eye's picks for this weekend's college gridiron action. Notre Dame at Army: "Our players have been thinking about Notre Dame for a long time,'' Army mentor Homer Smith remarked. This game means a lot to the Cadets, who are already 3-2 on the season, and could really 
. carry Army for the rest of their 1977 campaign. Notre Dame has had a week off, giving them a chance to recouperate from minor injuries. The Irish may be a little rusty at the start of the game, but if they're not looking ahead a week, they should be able to defeat the Cadets. So, give the matchup to the Irish by 24. Solman backs Notre Dame by 10. Texas at Arkansas: The Longhorns had the highest scoring team in the nation before last week, but many were unsure of their capabilities since they had not played a worthy opponent. Last Saturday, Texas had their chance and responded by upsetting Oklahoma. The Razorbacks are having a superb season. However, they have not played any major team, with the exception of Oklahoma State. The Hogs had a bye last Saturday, and thus, have had two weeks to prepare for this televised battle. The game will definitely be close. Texas will have to rely on their third string quarterback as they did for m«>st of the c6ntest against t-he Sooqers. How.ever, the Longhorns have had their chance-·at the top ·an~ arc not about to forfeit their standing. So, give this battle to the Longhorns by 6. Solman backs Arkansas by 3. Oklahoma at Missouri: The Sooners could not muster enough offense to edge Texas last weekend, but tomorrow they should be ready to bounce back. Oklahoma had their opportunities last week, but failed in key situations. Tomorrow, the Tigers will be the victim of the Sooner's punishment, as Oklahoma will down Missouri by 10. Solman goes with the Sooners by 14. Oregon at Southern Cal: The Trojans fell from the top spot in both polls after last weekend's, 21-20, loss to Alabama. Southern Cal showed a lot of poise, being down 21-6 in the fourth quarter and coming back to almost capture the contest. The Ducks fell to USC, 53-0, last season and the result may be similar tomorrow as the Trojans return to the win column. So, give this game to Southern Cal by 27. Solman eyes the Trojans by 28. Navy at Pittsburgh: The Middies downed the Air Force last Saturday by a field goal, but that feat will be difficult to acomplish tomorrow. The Panthers trounced Navy last year, 45-0. The midshipmen may put up a fight, but the Panthers should tally another win without much difficulty and bounce back from last week's ti~ against Florida. Thus, this clash 
game. 
Hall, the man the Irish must prevent from directing the Cadets attack, holds every Army record for game, season and career statistics. 
' He recently broke Hall of Farner 
Glenn Davis' total offensive mark 
of 4129 yards. 
The_senior quarterback has 360 completions for 4673 yards. Hall has also connected for 35 touch­down passes as well as leading the Cadets to 4721 yards in total offense. Last Saturday, Hall was• 17 of 26 in the air for 221 yards. In 1977, the Apopka, Florida native has 85 completions for 1115 yards and a dozen touchdowns. 
All-America tight end Clennie• Brundidge heads the receiving corps. Through last week's clash with Villanova, Brundidge has caught 30 passes for 476 yards, ranking him second nationally in receiving with his average of 6.0 receptions per game. 
The Army rushing attack will be led by lettermen Greg King and Jon Dwyer at left and right halfback, respectively. King leads the Cadets in ground gaining with 333 yards in five games, running for over five yards per carry. Dwyer has compiled 123 yards, 57 of those last week against Vil­lanova. 
The defense is led by junior Chuck Schott, who returns to the Army lineup at right end. Schott, who was second team All-East last year as a sophomore, has 52 tackles on the season. The 6-2, junior has recorded four sacks and has re­covered a team high five fumbles. 
The inside defensive line will be manned by tackles Chuck D'Amico and Duane Fuller, and middle guard George Mayes. D'Amico and Fuller have combined for 76 tackles this season, while Mayes in tackles with 65 and 56, respec­tively. Hilliard compiled 19 tackles in the 31-0 loss to Colorado, while coming up w\th 15 last week. 
has  55  to  his  credit.  Against  
Villanova,  Mayes  tallied  and  in­ 
credible 17 tackles.  
The  linebackers,  John  Hilliard  

The Irish will be depending on Joe Montana, who will be given his second starting role, to lead the offensive unit after a week off. Running for the Irish will be Tri-Captain Terry Eurick and Jerome Heavens, with depth given by Dave Mitchell. 
On defense, the Irish will be relying on their front wall to penetrate the Army lines and prevent Hall from a successful passing attack. After being tested by Herrmann of Purdue, and Smith of Michigan State, Hall will present a third consecutive, serious aerial attack threat. 
This game, being the first meet­ing of the two schools since 1974, is very important for the Cadets. "Our players have been thinking about Notre Dame for a long time," down goals before the season began, and all mentioned Notre Dame. It's a big thing for them, an experience they will remember for a lifetime. We know we have a heavy challenge before us, but we also believe we can correct our mistakes and take the spirit we've got and get the job done." 
Head  Coach  Homer  Smith  com­ 
mented.  
"We asked  our  squad to  write  

The Army will certainly be prepared for their first opportunity to erase the memories of the 48-0 blanking they received from the Irish three years ago. Notre Dame will be challenged by the Hall directed Cadets. The Irish must not look ahead to next week's clash with Southern Cal if they desire a convincing victory. 
The contest will be televised locally by WNDU-TV with kickoff slated for 12:30 p.m. South Bend time. 
Holy Cross upsets Flanner 
,

by John O'Donnell Sports Writer 
In interhall football action Wt!d­nesday night, Holy Cross-Carroll upset Planner by a score of 8-6. The win by Holy Cross-Carroll was the team's first victory this season against three defeats. Planner dropped to third place in the rankings and their record now stands at 3-1-1. 
Holy Cross-Carroll opened the scoring in the second quarter when Mike Clark and John Plunkett tackled Planner quarterback Dave Brassard in the endzone for a safety. The score remained 2-0 until the fourth quarter when Joe Chase of Holy Cross-Carroll scored 
_on an 8 yard touchdown sweep. 
Flanner made a valiant come­back effort in the closing seconds as Brassard connected with Marty Dytrych with two passes of forty 
goes to Pittsburgh by 17. Solman goes with the Panthers by 7. 
South Carolina at Mississippi: The Rebel alumni are furious with Coach 
Ken Cooper's results in 1977. The Rebels are 2-4 this season and even the 
20-13, win over the Irish has not insured Cooper's job. The Athletic 
Department is warning their coach that either win this game or you 
probably will not have a job. Mississippi gave Georgia a battle last 
Saturday, losing 14-13. The defeat resulted by the failure to tally on a 
two-point conversion. The Rebels are playing decent football, however, 
the object is to win. The Gamecocks will be a tremendous challenge, but 
the Rebels should win this one for their coach by 3. Solman goes with Ole 
Miss by 7. 
Dartmouth at Harvard: The Big Green upset Yale last week, 3-0, while Harvard defeated Cornell to remain in first place in the Ivy League. This game will be played in Cambridge, giving an edge to Joe Restic's Crimson. The Green will be ready to pull off another upset, but Harvard should be ready to stop them. So, give this confrontation to Harvard by 7. 
Solman backs Dartmouth by 7. 
Kentucky at louisiana State: Baton Rouge is a tough place to play .a football game. The Tigers upset Florida there two weeks ago. Last Saturday, LSU came from behind to defeat Vanderbilt. The Wildcats are going to have a hard time downing the Tigers in their own den, even though they were good enough to surprise Penn State two weeks ago. This battle will be extremely close, but give this matchup to Kentucky by 
2. Solman looks for the Wildcats to triumph by 3. Tennessee at Alabama: The Crimson Tide proved they were among the nation's best last Saturday when they downed the Trojans at the Colliseum. Johnny Majors and his team will probably not be a much of a challenge. but coming off a great win. there is bound to be a let down by Alabama. However, Bear B~ya~t and Company should capture this contest by 10. Solman goes wtth Barna by 10.
D bl u t 0 f th W k· · 
ou e pse ~ . ee • · · . . . , . . .. . 
Colorado at ~ansas: The Buffalos have easily ~ndl~d ·most of thetr opponents thts year. Howeve~. Okla'homa State dtd gtve them a great battle_last Saturday. The !ayhawks have had their problems this year, but are_ sttll capable of downtng Colorado. So, Kansas shoul_d make up for thetr, 40-17, lo~s to the Buffalos last year, and capture th1s battle by 3. Solman goes wtth Colorado by 17. 
~isconsin at Michigan: The Badgers are 5-0 and are numbe~-one in the Btg Ten. However, they have not beaten anyone that would gtve them an opportunity to claim their superiority. The Wolverines are proven and are 
. th t 't' I t M f h I h w· .
m a post ton a mos every year. any o t e p ayers on t e tsconsm 
h. k th h ld · · · Th f · d 
squad t m ey .s ou recetve more recogmtton. ey ee1 tt oes not matter _who they ve played, but the fact t~at they a~e 5-0 should say somethmg. Well, tom~r~ow the Badgers _wtll have thetr chance to prove they are worthy of ~ubltct~y. Just the destre to prove themselves may be enough to carry Wtsconsm through the game. They must get on the scoreboard to build their confidence and must not fall behind early. Thus, 
. h' I h t w· . b 3 S I . h M' h' b 21
gtve t ts c as o tsconsm y . o man goes wtt tc tgan y . Last Week: Eight correct a~d three wrong for 73 percent. Guest pickerFrank LaGrotta had seven nght and four wrong for 64 percent. Overall: Forty-nine correct and 14 wrong for 78 percent. 
yards. This set the stage for Planner's only score, a one yard quarterback sneak by Brassard. With 17 seconds remaining, Flan­ner failed on its two point conver­sion. 
Steve Rudnicki of Flanner played an outstanding game at linebacker, while Chase of Holy Cross-Carroll also performed well. Chase rushed for 78 yards, and scored Holy Cross-Carroll's only tou.chdown. 
In other games, Keenan defeat­ed Grace by a score of 7-0. Keenan remains undefeated with record of 3-0-2, while Grace suffered its first loss in four outings. 
The key play of the game was a 63 yard pass from Keenan quarter­back Greg Irehle to split end Nick Molinaro. The play carried the ball to the grace two yard line, where Irehle eventually scored the only touchdown of the game. The contest was characterized by fine defensive play, with Keenan mak­ing three important interceptions. Grace was able to ain 250 total 
[continued on page 9] 
Sports
NEWS 

Army game aired 
WSND-AM continues its cover· age of Notre Dame football by broadcasting tomorrow's Notre Dame-Army game live from Giants Stadium in East Rutherford, New Jersey. Ted Robinson and Frenchie Hess will handle the play-by-play chores. Game time is 12:30 p.m. with the pre-game show featuring Coach Dan Devine begintJing at 
12:15 p.m. 

lr"sh Sp ft t lk
I 0 s a 

Monte Towle will be the special guest host this weekend on WSND'S Speaking of Sports. John O'Connor will be the guest speaker and the program can be heard at 10 
p.m. on Sunday night, 640 on the AM dial. 
IH cross country 
Student Hody Vice-President T s f p b H 11 ·1 
om oma o · ang orn a east y
wQn last Tuesday's interhall cross country meet with a time of 13:10. AI i' Mike Doyle to k ond bef~ncl~cked at 13:34, :hi~=cJoh~ Filosh of St. Ed's finished third 011 the 2.5 mile course with a time of 13·43 Kathy Merre of Breen Phillips t k fi st · th • ti 
t?0 1

.rth mt. e wfom cfomll pe d­
16~n10s 

ton WI a tme 0 • • 0 owe
b H 1 w b f L · H 11 
y e en e er o ewts a .
Zahm Hall took first in a close team scorin , with Stanford and Planner placTng second and third, respectively. The interhall fall t k meet 'll be h ld M da 
~acht t bwt t 7e ?n thy
0 17

ntg ' c o er , a p.m. tn e
rth d f th ACC All ~~ntesta~~esh~uld :eport by 6:50 · 
._P_-_m_.____________, 





