
server 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's
Vol. XI, No. 106 Friday, April1, 1977 · 
Gryp appointment leads to controversy 
by Pat Hanifin Aside from being a Bender cam­Editor Emeritus paign manager, Gryp has served on the Keenan Hall council and judi­
Charges and counter-charges cial board and is an alternate on the about the qualifications of newly­University Appeals Board (a group elected Student Union Director which has not met this year). Tom Gryp are being tossed around "How can a man go from running a Student Government and Student $50 campaign to running a busi­Union. Participants dispute most ness with a $350,000 cash flow?" of the facts of the situation and one Student Union worker asked. Gryp's selection may be challenged However, Bender argued that 
before . the Stud~nt Government "no one on the board questioned Board of Commissioners. his ability, just his experience." Opponents of Gryp's selection Bender and other Gryp supporters 
claim that it resulted from "politi­claimed that Gryp is qualified and cal maneuvering" on the part of that his ideas and attitudes out­Dave Bender, the new student weighed his limited experience. 
body president and outgoing SBP The runner-up in the ~lection, Mike Gassman. Bender and Gass­John Rooney, S.U. administrative Katherine de jersey, below, spoke at the Jung conference at the CCE yesterday evening. Other man flatly denied the charge. "We assistant, has drawn criticism from participants later discussed her applications of clinical procedures combining astrology and each made our own decisions and Gryp supporters who claim he has psychology. (photo by Leo Hansen) voted for the man we thought was an abrasive personality. Rooney's best," Gassman said. "There was supporters, mostly Student Union 
Jung Conference 
no political bloc voting." people, reply that any such flaw is 
Gryp was Bender's North Quad outweighed by three-years of ex­campaign manager. This has perience, a "task-oriented ap­caused some people in Student proach,'' and a lack of ties to the 

features De Jersey 
Union to fear that the Union would new SBP. 
be subordinated te Student Gov­Appointment Board decided by Ed Marshall ernment and politicized next year. Gryp was selected by an "Ap­Gryp denied that his link with pointment Board" consisting of 
A lecture and discussion conducted last night by 
Bender was the cause of his outgoing Student Body President 
Katherine de Jersey, noted astrologer and author
appointment and stated that "Stu­Mike Gassman, incoming Student 
from Chicago, concluded the first day of the C.G. 
dent Union should not be working Body President Dave Bender, in­
Jung Conference being conducted at the Center of
hand-in-hand with Student Govern­coming Vice-President Tom Soma, 
Continuing Education (CCE) this week. The event 
ment, but neither should they have Student Union Director Ken Ricci, concluded tomorrow. 
a role that is totally independent." Student Body Treasurer Eric Ryan, SU Comptroller Marianne Morgan; De Jersey was introduced by Alice Howle, a notedThe second major charge against 
[continued on page 12] teacher of history and a poet, as well as an
GyYp is that he lacks experience. 
occasional lecturer at Penn State University, Syracuse University, and the Carl Jung Foundation 
in New York City. Howle gave the large audience a brief speech on the relevance of astrology to Jungian psychology in her introduction to de Jersey: 
Duggan, other officials 

attend Regina discussion 
• • Astrology is the study of processes,'' she said; it 
Carter she had mapped. "Astrology," she said,
has the innate ability to look both outward and 
"should be used to help us understand why we reactweek as well, he continued, then 
inward of a person's psyche in all facets of the 
as we do, and what can we do about it." This, sheSMC cannot truly be considered a 
individual's life. To it, Howle said, Jung added the
John M. Duggan, president of added, was Jung's vision of astrology.
women's college where women 
concept of synchronicity. Howle concluded the
Saint Mary's College, William unfettered by male presence can De Jersey stated that the astrologer's biggest role 
introduction by describing de Jersey as a person of 
Hickey, vice-president and dean of is the evaluation of a person's individual horoscope 
grow in maturity, poise, confi­
"great insight, warmth, and experience." .
Academic Affairs, and Kathleen dence, and decision-making in the for there lies possible danger as well as possible 
M. Rice, dean of Student Affairs, De Jersey first stated that she considered it ''a good in what information the astrologer reveals to
supportive climate of other women. 
attended an ·informal discussion great honor and privilege" to have been invited to
Without that, SMC might as well the individual. 
and dinner with the residents of the conference, and then began he£ presentation by De Jersey concluded the evening with a discu~­
be a co-ed college, he concluded. 
Regina Hall last night. quizzing the audience on its familiarization with sion with members of the audience, followed by· a 
Rice opened by stating that most · 
The discussion was centered astrological tools. She continued her speech, citing 
students think of her only as the small social gathering. . 
around student affairs, with part­cases she had handled and dotting the lecture with Conference Chairman Thomas Kapacinskas, as­
dean of discipline, while Student 
icular attention given to the pa­interesting facts, for example, that in the interpreta­sistant professor of theology at the University of
Affiars actually ranges into many
rietals issue, and academic affairs, tion of a single individual horoscope over 1700 Notre Dame, reminded the audience at the
other areas that deal with student dealing specifically with the mo­development: career development, variables are involved. conclusion of the evening's affairs the experimental dern language requirement. personal development, health, fi-She also employed extensive use of audio-visual workshops will also be held at the CCE through the Duggan reiterated his . enthu­
[continued on page 2] aids, which included a horoscopic chart of President conference's conclusion tomorrow. 
siasm for the future of SMC throughout the evening. He ad­dressed several questions about his stance on the parietals issue, 
McKenna, Herring win class elections
stating that students must put forward a convincing case if they want present policies changed. by Tim Lew treasurer, and Kathie Fitzpatrick .. s the new ballot boxes. 
In congruence with this, Duggan secretary. The ticket received 538 votes, good Rob Tully, the senior president, compli­pointed out that SMC is committed Andy McKenna became the next junior for 53 percent of the total vote. Pat Donley of mented the workers on their conscientious to being a women's college, and class president, and Andy Herring the next Dillon Hall ran second with 467 votes, or 46 effort all week. He also wished the new class said that he is pleased with the sophomore class president, as a result of percent of the total. officers the best of luck in all their future present co-education program. But yesterday's elections. In the sophomore race, the Herring ticket happy hours. Tully stated that there were few if there are men in the classroom Winners with McKenna were Sue ,Flanigan 1rew 636 votes for 61 percent of the ballots. complaints .. during the election alid that the and men in the dorms seven days a . as junior vice president, Teri;'V Frick as fhey defeated the Casey Hammond ticket, electoral process on this campus is remarkably 
who received 396 votes, or 38 percent. smooth. Serving the sophomores with Herring will be

(********'********..~ *.tt 
Ellen Dorney as vice president, Susie Meyers as secretary, and Chris Ritchie as treasurer.
t Today is April Fool's Day!! ~· O'Connell submits 
Andy McKenna expressed his gratitude to· all those who helped during the campaign. "I want to .compliment Pat Donley and his ticket 
Daneny petition
't In honor of the occasion, i 
for the fine job they did," he said. "We hope by Jew1 Fremeau to have a happy hour some weekend after we Senior StUf Reporter~ the Observer * get back from Easter, and right now our 


efforts will be directed towards setting up our In a six-page letter submitted Wednesda),Junior Advisory Council." 'o Fr. Theodore Hesburgh, University Presi-·~ proudly presents . ~ Herring wished to thank everyone who .ent, along with a petition to retain James P: helped his ticket throughout the entire Danehy as professor of Chemistry, petitior;t~ campaign, especially those who aided them in drive organizer Keith O'Connell called fot Jn~ 
each of the halls. "I would still like to get a explanation of the situation. He also outlined 
quest,ionnaire out to all the class members the reasons for the petition.before the summer break. We want to start "I believe the situation deserves an off the next. year with a lot of activities right ~xplanation in lisht of the man in qu~tion;" away," he saitr. O'Connell stated. "We gathered 1,859 
The election was monitored by the outgoing signatures in four days, and could have gotten. senior class officers in conjllbction with the many mom. ~ we ~ .J.-.j Senior Advisory Council, who guarded the fed' .......2] 
,., 


2 I 
the observer Friday, April1, 1977i 
----News Briefs--...... 
t=====================lntemational 
; Army commander fired. 
KINSHASA• Zaire -President Mobutu Sese Seko has fired his ' army commander in rebel-invaded Shaba Province and for the first 
J 
time in more than 15 years imposed censorship of news dispatches 
on the growing conflict in the province. 
The developments came as the government admitted the fall of a key town and the rebels pressed closer to another important center in the copper belt. ­
~~~~==========Nation~ 
Ali may fight "Rocky" star 
CHICAGO -Heavy-weight champ Muhammad Ali says he may fight an exhibition match June 17 in Chicago with actor-writer Sylvester Stallone, whose boxing movie "Rocky" won the Oscar for 
best picture. "There's a possibility I might get him here for a round or two " Ali said Wednesday at a fund-raising cocktail party for the Leag~e to Improve the Community. Ali said he proposed the match to Stallone on Monday at the Academy Awards presentation. 
a---Qn Campus Today_. 
friday, apri I 1. 

12:15p.m. I !
mass, ce ebrated by fr. griffin, Iafortune ballroom. , 
12:15 pm travelogue, "fiji in the south pacific" by john ackerman, sponsored by. bio. dept. biology aud., 1 galvin. 
3:30pm I lecture, "anachronism and authority" by richard degeorge, u. of kansas, sponsored by ph'ilo. dept., ~library lounge. 
5:15pm mass and dinner, bulla shed. 
7 pm bible study, campus crusade for christ, "how can we know the r~ssurrection is a fact," library lounge. 
7 & 9 pm film, "sherlock holmes smarter brother.," sponsored by student union, eng. aud. $1. 
8 Po:'' workshop, "dido and aeneas" by henry purcell. o'laughlin aud. 
8 pm theater, reader's theater presentation "what's to be done after the sexual revolution?" washington hall. free ad. · 
sat. april 2. 

1
10 am simulation, international relations gaming, sponsor­
ed by gov. dept. eng. aud. 
10 am beginning sailing class, boathouse. 
12 pm bike club ride, meet at fountain south of Iafortune. 
I 
12:30 pm -collegiate jazz festival, stepan center. 7:30pm 
7, 9, 11 pm film, "sherlock holmes smarter brother," eng. aud. 
$1.  
8 pm  workshop,  "dido and aeneas"  by  henry purcell,  
o'laughlin aud.  \  
8pm  theater, "what's to be revolution," wash. hall.  done  after  the  1sexual I  
sunday, april 3.  

4, 7, film, sponsored by collegiate seminar, eng. aud. 10 pm 8 pm film, "breathless" by jean-lue godard, foreign film d series, carroll hall. : 
8 pm theater, "camille and perdican," directed by l;lridget j regan, wash. hall. 
. I 
recital, grad. student recital by denise taliaferro, 1 
8:15pm 

sponsored by music dept., library aud. 
St. Mary's students; participate in discussion 
[continued from p~e 1] I 
':. lid and sptritual develop­ment. She explained that next year there will be two new posts under her: Director of Activities and Director ·of Recreation/ Athletics, 
who will work with students to \ develop a creative approach to student social life and activities. I Two of the projects that her department is working on for next semester are a SMC Senior Bar and a Yellow Pages booklet listing the a' ailable services at SMC. 
Hickey fielded questions on a variety of academic related sub-1 jects. The question of the modem 1 language requirements was a pop­ular concern among members of the audience. Hickey also discuss~. ed · the liberal arts education in relation to the Professional Pro­gram. During the dinner hel discussed the Humanistics pro-1 gram with attending seniors. I 
Leslie Wilson, who co-ordinated the evening, commented, "For an 
1 
innovative event in residence hall programming, I feel that it was most successful. The turnout was very good, and I hope that it is an. indication of the interest and1 enthusiasm of students in Regina/ Hall and at SMC in general." ' 
------------------------------------------. 
roo many bullet fragments 
Kennedy investigation continues 
j 
I 

WASHINGTON AP-House assas­1sinations committee investigators I ' say they are pursuing a lead that . 
there may be too many bullet fragments for Lee Harvey Oswald to have assassinated President John F. Kennedy by himself. 
The investigators also told the · committee in a secret briefing this month that a woman who worked in 
, a Dallas night club at the time is willing to testify that Jack Ruby introduced Oswald to her and others before the assassination as "Lee Harvey Oswald of the CIA." 
Ruby, a Dallas night club owner, killed Oswald after the Kennedy assassination. The Warren Com­mission concluded that Ruby had not known Oswald before the assassination, and until his death Ruby maintained he had not pre-1 viously known Oswald. 
A 20-page section of the secret 
' Associated Press All reproduction rights are reserved 
O'Connell seeks full explanation 
1[continued from page 1] 

one-third of the undergraduates' 
signatures in such a short time 
proves their support for Danehy. Such support can't be ignored,'' he said. 
The letter, which appears in part in today's Observer, explains that attitudes are changing toward older people and that demographic trends show the older generation to be increasing in numbers. 
O'Connell also points out in the letter that the action of retiring Danehy is contrary to "what Notre Dame stands for and what Fr. Hesburgh has said himself." 
He said that he hopes the letter will command some response. Copies were sent to The South Bend Tribune, Notre Dame Maga­zine and the Board of Trustees. 
"Fr. Hesburgh could take this 
case out of cour: tomorrow  if he  
wanted to," O'Connell said.  "We  
hope the petition will have  some  

kind of effect in (Hesburgh's) making this decision." 
Danehy will turn 65 years of age this month. O'Connell reported that although Danehy was asked to teach his popular summer course again this year. he has since been notified that he cannot teach this summer. 
''That's harrassment,'' O'Connell commented, and then expressed his hope that the case would be settled by the end of April. 
*The Observer 
THEME: PORKER CITY 

Night Editor: John Coldcuts Asst. Night Editors: Rose­
mary Meatloaf, Debbie Donut 
layout Staff: Eileen Lynch­
Honorary Heifer, Tracy Mc­
Auliffe-Honorary Heifer 

Editorial layout: Filet-o-F.ish 
Features layout: Leo Ham 
salad 

Sports layout: Tony Pastromi 
Typists: Stephanie Brillo pad 
(clean up squad), Gwen Cole­
slaw, Sue Burger Chef 

E.M.T.'s: Leigh Tuna Fish, 
Karen Chives 
Day Editor: Jack Salami 

Copy Reader: Ann Grapefruit, 
Bob Beefaroni 

Ad layout: Tom Waldorf 
salad 

Photographer: Leo Ham salad 
(Leftover) 

The Observer is pubhsht>d Monday through Friday and weekly during the summer session, except during the exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by student~ of the University of Notre Dame and St Mary's College. Subscnptions may be purchased for $20 per year ($10 per semester) from The Obser· ver, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
The Observer is a member of the 
March 17 briefing was accidentally Warren Commission's. conclusion released by the committee yester-. that one bullet had to go through day after the House1voted to give Kennedy's body and then travel on the panel two years to pursue its to wound Connally may no longer investigations of the killings of be valid. Kennedy and civil rights leader Robert Tennenbaum, the com-Martin Luther King, Jr. mittee's chief investigator of the 
The investigators said the pos-. kennedy assassination, told the ibility of there being too many committee: "If the four or five bullet fragments for Oswald alone fragments in fact were taken out to have killed Kennedy is based on and if we can show -if we can the story of a nurse. locate them -that they weigh more 
They identified her as the head than that portion that is missing nurse at Parkland hospital in Dallas from that bullet, then the very and quoted her as saying four or cornerstone and basis of the entire five bullet fragments -not one Warren Commission report is no clean bullet were removed from longer valid." former Texas Gov. John Connally The Warren Commission conclu­who was wounded when Kennedy ded that Oswald killed Kennedy was killed. acting alone and not as part of a 
If that is true, they said, th~ conspriacy.
...........••-.-.-................. 
• TIMM P-ARTY STORE· • 
~ -~ 
!.OPEN: MON -SAT 9 am -11 pm! : SUNDAY · 12 noon-11 pm •• : COLD BEER, PACKAGE IJQUOR,: : WINE, GOURMET FOODS : : 3114 S. 11 ST~ NILES, MICffiGAN: 
: . 1 Block North of state line on U.S. 31 : 
PRODUCT 
ENGINEER 
CHALLENGE RESPONSIBILITY OPPORTUNITY! 
As a national manufacturer of fabricated metal products, a vital supplier to the power and util­ity industries, we have the environment and corporate stability that translate into challenge, responsibility and opportunity for the ambi­tious Product Engineer. Complete follow­through responsibility for product design/ development will be yours, involving engineer­ing expertise in both wide-ranging and highly specialized areas. Analyzing failures and supervising testing to improve existing and develop new products, you'II coordinate all 
necessary input from various sources such as manufacturing, sales and customers. Some travel is required for product demonstra­tions and presentations. 
A BSME is needed as are strong technical capabilities and communication/interper­sonal skills. In return, we offer an excellent salary, liberal fringe benefits and support for your career objectives. To arrange a con­fidential interview, send your resume to: 
Victor Lising Division Manager of Industrial Relations 
MFG. and SUPPLY CO. 
HARDWARE DIVISION 
3700 S. Morgan St. /Chicago, Itlinois 60609 
An Equal Opportunity Employer mlf 
Friday, April1, 1977 the observer ... 
A and L plight 
Waiting for an Interview 
by Kathy Mills Executive Editor 

The alarm goes off, jarring me out of my peaceful sleep. the bunk bed shakes a bit as my roommate gets up to turn off the rude noise. I hear her groan as I open my eyes. 
The only source of light in the room is the flourescent bulb in our Pepsi wall clock. Squinting at it, I discover it is only 4:30 -I presume it's 4:30 a.m. My roommate is getting dressed and the person who lives next door to us knocks on our door to see if she is ready. They leave a few minutes later and I settle deeper into the warmth of my bed to go back to sleep. 
No, they're not going to stand in line for concert tickets at the ACC. It's Monday and they're going to stand in line under the Dome so they can get interviews with Hall­mark Cards for the following week of the Placement Bureau. 
"Did you get it?" I ask her later on in the day. Yes, she informs me, but Bridget (our next-door neighbor) didn't. "She gave up her place to me because she knew how much I wanted it,'' she explains. 
The story may sound sad, but it is true. Seniors who want a chance to get a personal interview with companies which send a limited number of interviewers to the 
Buds appeared on many of the trees on Campus this past Placement Bureau are involved in 
week. Hopefully more warm weather will bring a warm spring. rigorous competition. And this 
(photo by Leo Hansen) competition is all part of the game 
In Farley Hall 
"Women's Night" held 
by Jake Morrissey Staff Reporter 

Women in marriage, in careers, and at Notre Dame were some of the topics discussed at "Women's Night," held last night in Farley basement. 
The evening, according to Mel­anie Jorgenson, Farley speakers commissioner, is the response to those female students who have come to Jorgenson expressing con­cern over future plans. 
The meeting, attended by ap­proximately 50 professors and stu­dents, brought many interesting points out into the open, Jorgensen 
said. "Who says you have to have a life of your own, to be happy?'' she
Moira Geoffrion, assistant pro­asked. "Who says you have to dofessor of art, said that doing what something intellectual just because pleases yourself is vital to a happy you can? There are people livinglife. "It is important to do what you happy lives in ways you'd neverlike to do," Geoffrion said. "Being dream of envying." 
a teacher is extremely exciting; it's 
-working out so far very well." Assistant professor Carole Geoffrion was also quick to em­Moore of the History department phasize that flexibility and a sense emphasized the fact that women of humor were very important to women whowant both a career and of trying to get a job. 
"It all depends on the arrange­
ment the employer makes," ex·· 
plained Richard D. Willemin, dir­
ector of the Placement Bureau. 
"For example, all the public ac­
counting firms have promised to 
send as many recruiters as the 
number of students warrants." 
Smaller firms send only a couple of recruiters. he continued. As a result, the students who want ' interviews with these companies and with the more popular compa­
nies must wait in line. 
*
Observer 
Insight 

One assistant in the office noted that some students "get up at the crack of dawn" and bring pillows and blankets so they can sleep on the floor of the Administration Building. When the Placement Bureau opens at 8 a.m., these students may sign up for interviews day, students can sign up for as many additional interviews as they wish. 
The assistant explained that when a list fills up, a waiting list is put up. Sometimes, companies will put in an extra recruiter if this happens. The Bureau will give the interviewer a copy of a student's profile filed with the Bureau even if the student is unable to get an interview with the company. 
Most of the sign-ups are with companies seeking students with degrees in business administra­tion. For this semester, through the week of March 11, 116 compa­nies interviewed business stu­dents while 29 interviewed for science students, 47 for students in arts and letters, and 83 for engi­neering students. 
"Arts and letters people have a difficult time and will always have one because not many companies look for arts and letters students," Willemin stated. He added that 

with two companies. after Mon-[continued on page 13]
f-SMCCoH.;;.;.-;;se:U~ fRiDAY-_,l 
t  9:oo-11:00  t  
t  Stt:?l'f? 13{)Wf?l§  ~ll2t:? lt:?WI§  t  
1  ~  1\iJitll, (()1111£'..,  1  
t  contempoQaQy QOCk.....  1  
t  11 :00-12:30  t  
t  Marian Hoke  and  Pam Butterworth  I  
t  t  
'  ~olk GUitaR....  ~  
f  also complimentaRy potatoe ch1ps &. 01p....  t  
I  Special: Hoagie bar-make your own!!!!  t  
!  ~~-J  

a family. Elizabeth Christman of the Am­
AN TOSTAL IRISH WAKE COMMITTEE presents:·
erican Studies department, declar­ed that she was a "happy woman." She commented that she felt that stereotypes should be cast aside. 
WICKED WEDNESDAY 
Happy hour to highlight opening of An Tostal 
HAPPY HOUR 
by Judy Meehan 

In an attempt to "do something different" and "add some flavor­ing" to the traditional An Tostal weekend activities, Bob Smith and Mick Mancuso, chairman and co­chairman of the Irish Wake com­mittee, have planned a "Wicked Wednesday" Happy Hour to be held at Fat Wally's and Bridget McGuire's on Wednesday, April 20. 
In conjunction with the Happy Hour will be the Irish Wake Dance to be held that Saturd~y in Stepan Center. The committee's new in­novation this year is the sale of a coupon booklet good during An Tostal weekend (April 20-23) and free helicopter rides to every twentieth coupon holder. 
Smith said the interesting fea­ture of the Irish Wake committee's plans will be the "Campus Tour from the Air." With a take-off from the fi6Jd next to Stepan Center and a landing in the field near the Faculty Club, a student who owns a twentieth booklet will be given a view of the campus from a helicop­ter. The tentative date for this event is Wicked Wednesday. 
Enthusiasm towards the sale of the coupon booklet, Smith encour­ages students to · ''buy booklets early because there is a limited amount to be sold." The coupon booklets will be sold for $3 and include the followin~: 
A free Irish Wake dance ticket 
APRIL 20

A coupon good for all the beer you can drink and half price mixed drinks at Fat Wally's on Wicked 
$3.00 Ticket & coupon book ($9.00 value) includes:· 
Wednesday form 2-5 pm 
A 2 for 1 mixed drink coupon good twice during An Tostal week­end at Fat Wally's 
2-5pm -FAT W AIAIAY'S I all the Free Beer 
A coupon good for one dollar off a pitcher of beer, also good twice at 
you can drink & 1 2 price mixed drinks 1 Fat Wally's A coupon good for 2 for 1 beer 
PLUS COUPONS GOOD 2 for 1 mixed drinks 
and drinks at Bridget McGuire's on 
TWICE April 20-23 $1 off pitcher of Beer 
Wednesday from 6-9 pm A first free beer coupon good at 
2 for l

Bridget's on Wednesday coupons for discounts on food at Barnaby's 
6-9pm -BRIDGET McGUIRES 
Beer
also. 

and mixed drinks sale only Monday, April 11 through Friday April IS. They may be 
These coupon booklets will be on 
PLUS COUPON GOOD 
one free beer 
purchased in the North and South 
April 20 6-9 p.m.
dining halls at dinner, LeMans Lobby from 12-4 pm. SMC dining hall from 4:30 to 6 pm and the Student Union ticket office from 
Plus BARNABY'S piz~a disco~t coupons~12-4 pm. Tickets for the Irish Wake dance only will be sold at the door for $2. 
Plus FREE ffiiSH WAKE TICKET 
The Irish Wake Dance, which will be held Saturday evening in the Stepan Center, is featuring a 
Plus Free Campus Tour ( by helicopter ) 
group called "Choice" from Chica­go who have performed at recent for every 20th ticket formals. 
Smith said a "classy" atmo­
DINING HAW-Student Union ncket Offim
sphere for the dance will be provide 
ON SALE NOW!!!
through greenery and mirror-like decor. Both couples and singles SMC cafeteria-LeMans Lobby are encouraged to come. 
--~-----------~-­
*The Observer 
.tn indt•pt•ndt•nt student newspdp(•r st•rving notn• ddmt• dnd sl. mdry's 
The Observer i'> puhlisht>d by studt•nls of the University of Not rc• D.mw .md St. Mary''> Collf'gP. It does not m•t , • .,.,,1rily rc·fh·t·t tlw policit•'> of either institution. The llt'W'> i'> n·portPd "' ilccur.ttf'ly and as objectively as po.,.,ihlt• I ditori,th n·pn·.,t•nt the opinion of a majority of thl' I ditori.tl Bo.trd. Conunt•ntariPs, opinions and letters .m· tlw vit·w., of tlwir .lllthor'>. Column -;pact• is available to .til mt·mln·r-. of thl' community, and letters are f.'lltouragt·d to promoll• thl' fn•t• t•xpn•ssion of varying OJlllllOil'> Oil I ,IIIIJlll'>. 
Box QBu-.int''>'> M.m.tgl'r Sw• Quiglt•y 
Notre Dame
AdvPrt i'>ing M,uMgPr Slt'VI' Bonomo l'rodud ton M.m.tgf'r K,m•n Chiamf's Ind. 46556 
EDITORIAL BOARD 

Marti Hogan Editor-in-Chief Martha Fanning Managing Editor 1 Bob Brink Asst. Managing Ed. Kathy Mills Executive Editor Maureen Flynn Editorial Editor Barb Breitenstein Exec. News Editor Tom JJyrne Campus Editor Jt•an P'owley St. Mary's Editor KatiP Kerwin News Editor Paul Stevenson Sports Editor Pat Cole Special Projects Ed. David O'Keefe Features Editor 
Copy Editor Barb Langhenry Photo Editor Paul Clevenger 
Friday, April 1, 1977 
commentary 
Take Another Look 
maureen flynn, marti hogan 
The t·urn·nt controversy sur­rounding the appointment of Tom (;ryp as Student Union director raises a number of questions about the sdedion prot:ess and. ulti­mately. about the relationship be­tween Student Government and Student Union. 
The past few years have witness­ed a nmstant power struggle hdween the student body presi­dent on the one hand and the Student Union director on the otlwr. According to du Lac, Student Union is "an independent. non-profit branch of Student Go­vt.·rnmt.•nt..." But no matter How hig and extensive the branch. it has to join up with the main trunk at some point. Is this really indepen­lknce? let's look at this more dosdy. 
Up until last year. the director of Student Union was appointed by the SBP and approved by the Student Government Board of Commissioners. The advantage to this system was that it generally insured a good working relation­ship between the two student k•aders. But the appointn,1ent pnx·ess dearly indicated that the Studt.•nt Union director. and there­fore the Student Union. was subor­dinate to the SBP and Student Governntt.•nt. 
last yt.•ar the system was chang­ed so that tht• SU director was ekded hy an Appointment Board comprised of four Student Govern­mt.•nt oftkials. thret' Student Union ofti,·ials. and two "swing" votes: till' Hall Prt·sidt.·nts Council Chair­man and tht.• Vit.·e-President of Stud,•nt Adivities. The appoint­nwnt must he approved by a Board uf c,,mmissiont.•rs comprised of the SHP. SBVP. Student Government treasurt·r. HPC' t.•h:tirm:m and three student SlC' reps. Sint.·e any ,·andidatt' for the position must han: ~ tw~-thirds majority (six votes) to win, Student Government still seems to hold the better hand. 
Although the present system allows for a greater Student Union voice in the choice of director, it has the disadvantage of allowing the election of someone who cannot work well with the SBP. This past year. the effectiveness of both Student Union and Student Gov­ernment was hampered by the antipathy between SBP Mike Gass­man and SU director Ken Ricci. 
In the present case, newly-elect­ed president Dave Bender and Gryp have already worked closely together on Bender's election cam­paign. (This has resulted in charges of patronage that are almost impossible to substantiate and that we will not go into here.) A cooperative relationship between the two student leaders is to the advantage of the entire student organization. but each has a separ­ate responsibility to his own branch. . 
The Student Union· director is responsible for four different com­missions and over $330.000. He has well over one hundred people within his own organization with 
· whom he must work. Many of thest>, people -those who have no say in the selection process -are asking. "Who is Tom Gryp?" 
1 Who is Tom Gryp. indeed? No one outside of the Student Union Appointment Board can say what Gryp has to offer Student Union that the other candidates lacked. · let us hope that it is better ideas. more enthusiasm. superior organi-· 7-ational abilities. We don't know ilnd the Board itself was badly split oyer Gryp's qualifications. What we do know is that Gryp has no previous experience in Student Union. The only proofs we have of his other abilities are a Keenan Hall bus trip to Bendix Woods and two years on the 
Keenan Hall judicial board. His credentials may be impessive when fully revealed, but at this point they are still obscured. 
Of all the people who are puzzled or upset by Gryp's appointment, the most important are the Student Union staff members with whom he will have to work. They don't trust the selection process. There have heen charges of politicking and maneuvering that would be deplor­able in the selection of a person to till a basically non-political posi­tion. What is to be done? 
The time has come for a more .autonomous Student Union. The director should be chosen by a predominantly Student Union board and approved by the Stu­dent Body President or by a boarrl of which he is a member. The model for this system has already 
1. been working for several years: the 
f Ombudsman Service. The Director 
· of the Ombudsman is chosen each year by the Ombudsman Steering Committee. Candidates from both outside and inside the organization are considered. The Steering Committee's choice requires the approval of the SBP. This system vastly improves the chance of someone being chosen who can command respect and the allegiance of the Student Union staff and still be able to work together with Student Government for the mutual benefit of both organizations. For now. the decision rests with the Board of Commissioners. It is obvious that the Appointment Board's choice has been an unpop­ular. or at least a questionnable one for many inside and outside of the Student Union and Student Gov­ernment organizations. Approval of that decision should not be granted without a great deal of thought and investigation. 
op1n1on~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Gripe Against Gryp 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii charIe s moran 
let the rc,·,,rd 't"'" 1 hal ''11 \Lu·,·h Jll. J<l--till' '-ltt,knl l'ni,,n ll,,,tnl ,,f llir,'l'h'r~ ;tpp<'illlcd T<'lll l ;n p h' bc,·,,mc tlK Ill'" Swdc!ll l'ni,,ll llirc.-h'r. l'lll·rci~. Ill'" c1·cr. ,,n,· .-.u.-11 l<' the ,impli.-itl ,,f till' .tb<'l l' ~l.lll'lllC11l (,,m l;np has ;lb...,,lutcl\ tll' l•.l-'kl.'.l'l'lllld i11 ;ln\·· thi11_.: ha~ i11_.: l<' d,~ "ith Studt';ll l'ni,,n. lk iu~ '"' <'"l'''rit'tll'<' what­"'''' t'r \1 ith l'lllllll!ll.', ;111\'lhilll.'. llll the \,,lrC D.tml' <.'.;mpu~. (.)};, kl mt' .t!ll,l'!ld lh.ll S(,l(t'mt'!ll. Ht• did hl'ip ,,r~ani.'l' ''II<' thin~ in his ,·arccr at llul a.-. lk wa~ the \·,rtll
' 

t,,luad ,·ampai~n m;tna~cr f,,r the Ill'\\ iY ckYtt'd ti<'k<'l ,,f H,·n,kr· s,,m;t. In rcwartl f,,r this Yaluabk 'l'l'rk. he h;ts been l!iYcn ''Ill' ,,f the 
!ll<'St P'"'aful j,,bs .in alt,,f Student G,wcrnmenl. MaY<'~' Dak1 w,,uld haYe be,·n pr,,ud ,,f this l'fft>,·til'e us,· ,,f tht' l'''liti,·;il palr,,n;tgt.' systt'lll. 
Stud,•nt l'ni,,n is in tr,,ubk. All of the <'\'mmissi,,ns ar,· just barl'iy goinl'! I'' .sqU<'<ik thn'u!!h this Y<~ar 
.. 
_f tl1bL,~1 \)£·~ ,~ &:lit.f•..."'1-~ 

tinan,·iaill'. dut' ll' ;t Ia,·!-nf f,,re· i :1bout. He doesn't know or under· sight ''n. the pan ,,f the pr<'"<'nl stand the peoplL' he must work "ith administrati<l!l ,,f Studelll l'ninn. or the probil'ms whid1 the~· <'n· Due l<' t'x,·cssil e spending during l'OUnter. A krwwkdge of till' pl'<'Pk 
till' tirsl St'!lll'Slt'r lw St'\'l'rai and their probk•ms l'an onll· be 
gn,ups in llni,,n, many l'aiuabil' il'arned through the experienl'l' of campus a,·til·iti,·s. su,·h as the h:n·ing worked in Student Union or Nan. Darlw's Plat'<' and tlw Quid.· Stude~ll Gon:-rnment for a \Tar. ic arc in dan!;!er ,,f extirll·ti<'n dut' ll1 
h'm l;n p has ~'' tar madeinsufti,·it'lll t'unds. This is just ,,n,· nrtuaill' llll a£tt•mpl to learn what is ,,f the nwnumerl!al pn,bk.ms that g,1ing l111 in Student l'ni<ln. Of ali1 will fa,·e the inn1111ing dir<'<'tl,r. The th<' l'andidates f,,r till' ofti,·e of ,.,,mpln,lkr's ,,fti,·t·. whil'11 wa~ set 
Dire,·wr he is the ,,nil' one who did up tll'l' 1·ears a~'' w serYt.' ;Js a nM ;tppwal'il ani' ,.,,mmissi,,ner in ·!1 • ·k 111 111 • ·l' '!1u'r·11' ,1· 1il
' " < ' s ' ~ ' ; l'ni,,n for information about his 
sllaknl uni,,n nwnies. has been 
l'Ormnission and the probil'msturn,•d int'' a SI'St<'!ll of mere b,,,,k. ,, hidl exist. His onh· contal·t has Ikt't'pers and .Ill'! watchdogs. The been with one menlber of the f,,rth ·oming ·tudit will hi >hli •ht 
m;lm.' of tht.• .pn,bkms witl~n tle present Sl' administration that has
all,,wed all of the problems to exist ' ,·omptrolll'r's ,,ftj,·,•. in the tirst phice. 
· Tht.'r<' is Ill' way th:ll Tt'm Gr~·p will be :tbk· w do annhing abom Bender and s,,ma haYe t1exed thest.' probkms bd,~re ,:aiuabk their P''liti,·ai musde la muscle on nwnths art.' ll'St. He will h;l\e t'' Jo;ln from the Gassman ,·olte,·tion) spend his first f,•w nwnths in 0 fti,·e and railn1alkd Gr1·p int<1 the j,,b, 
just k:trning what Stud,•nt l'ni,,n is c "hik p;tssing up se\·eral intinitt'iy
.. .. . ~ . 
'open· letter (extracts)~~ 
'Father, why...?' 
kei-th o'conne/1 
Dear Father Hesburgh: 

Frankly, Father, we are a bit confused; and possibly, disillusion­ed. 
We are confused about the forced retirement of one whom we consider to be a great man, Dr. James P. Danehy. And we are disillusioned, possibly, about what Notre Dame, and we as students of this University, represent. 
At best, Father, the situation is vague, and at worst it can only be described as highly discriminatory or arbitrary. 
This situation deserves an ex­planation. Why is Dr. Danehy being asked to leave? 
Accompanying this letter are petitions which were circulated around campus for a four-day period. The petition, signed by almost a third ofthe undergraduate population, states in effect that we believe Dr. James P. Danehy "is more than qualified to continue his duties as a professor a.t this University," and that his loss "would be a great loss to the academic community.''... 
Father, Dr. Danehy is a compe­tent man, very respected for his academic credentials and his con­cern for Notre Dame. Students consider Dr. Danehy to be a great asset. We ask that he be treated fairly, and that his situation be individually evaluated... First of all, suppressing the 
' rights of the old in defense of the rights of the young is simply asking 

' that one sector should be given some advantage at the expense of another sector. This is clearly discriminatory. Is this how we solve the problem?...In reality, this is only recreating the very same dis­abilities under which various other minority groups have suffered un­justly. Blacks and other ethnic groups' rights have suppressed so that they would not be able to compete with white for jobs. Most recently. women's rights have been suppressed similarly. so that they could not take jobs away from men who had to support families. Now, the aging are the soctor being discriminated against unjustly. 
Secondly. Father, people who contend that if older people are allowed to work past retirement age then there will be no jobs for the young overlook two things: first. they overlook the fact that many older people retire before the age of 65; that many more would be retiring soon after; and that people die. All of these cause places in the job market to be vacated, which must be filled. Secondly, those people overlook the demographic 
· changes our country is undergoing right now. This country of the young Is getting older, as reported in a special Newsweek magazine cover story February 28, 1977... Newsweek reports, •'the median age is moving up; eventually, the number over 65 will double." ... ··By the turn of the century, nearly 31 million people will be 55 or older."... How will the nation bear the cost of supporting so many old 

more qu;tlitied penpic. "hn '"ere :1iso l·andidates. Thdr onil' mistake was in not ·c:unpaigning for the Bender-Soma tic-ket in the last election. 
The list of other candidates is quite impressiYe. There was J. P. Russell. the HPC chairman and head of the Student Union Book Exd1ange. There 11·as John Roon· ey. Student Union Administrative Assistant and former Assistant Social Commissioner. There was 
Rick Dulant\'.  Assistant  Social  
Commissioner  and  head  of  the  
Quickie.  

The credentials of the abo1·e people are extreme!~· impressive to say the least. Tom Gryp's credentials are ab,·smal to sa1· the most. 
\\'hat d,, ·I propose would happen·: \\'eli. there is ;1 little krwwn ,·lause in the ·S!lldent Go\·· 
UO :t~~--.1~ .'"..'1.\.'\.lL."ll, i)L~f S~q't"L.'~i 1.") ,".·"'''.? ..~•i'"'-'tL-\ · ~·';.:-.;,!i'\i ;1~~~; :t!l''i ~~~"..;"'~ :.... tfJ; fto ~.cyi.t(.":,~ ':-11 .:~\.: 
people? ... 
Newsweek offers two alterna­
tives. One alternative is to have 
young working Americans give up 
"an even l]igher percentage of 
their paycheck" to the system... 
"Perhaps more likely, the sys­
tem itself could be changed to allow 
the elderly to prolong their working 
lives and thus share the pension 
cost." This is the second alterna­
tive, by far the most practical. .. 
"Already a number of major firms 
have modified their retirement 
policies to allow workers to stay on 
the job past their 65th birthdays if 
they wish... And Florida Repre­
sentative Claude Pepper, Chair­
man of a house Subcommittee on 
Aging, has introduced legislation 
that would overturn the govern­
ment's policy of forcing Federal 
workers to retire at 70. .. . 
Right now Congress is debating 
Bill H.R. 65 (presented by Findley, 
Rep.-Illinois) barring any age limit 
totally. 
M.>st important, Father Hes­
burgh, Dr. Danehy is a human 
being, with an inherent human 
dignity to be respected by others; 
as a human being. he wants to do 
something meaningful. 
Father, it is you who have helped 
to show us that all men and women 
are children of God, and should be 
equal and should have equal access 
to those basic human and spiritual 
endeavors by which we can seek to 
be happy: the right...to have our 
inherent dignity respected by ot­
hers; the right to equal treat­
ment under the administration of 
justice, to peace and security, and 
the realization of our full potential. 
It is you, Father, who have 
helped to teach us that "when one 
American suffer injustice, each of 
us and our great nation are 
diminished and wasted, yes, even 
threatened...that freedom and jus­
tice are not dead ashes to be 
reviewed, but a living flame to be 
fed by our continual dedication and 
effort...that freedom and justice 
must be regained, reestablished, 
and rewon each day. We are a 
people who have already done what 
was never done before: to declare 
equality of opportunity and to make 
it work for everyone." 
Such things as these we stand for 
Father. 
The Christian 
university in America should be the place where enlightened con­science fearlessly confronts all the frightening manifestations of raw 1 power of all kinds in our ..times." (Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, Intro. 
76-77 Fac. Man.) 
Such things as these we believe 
in, Father. 
"The world may or may not ' follow, but we must lead because our tradition says we must; liberty is worth the effort, and the creation of justice and peace· abroad will in large masure depend on the mea­sure of justice and peace that we create here at home." 
Then let us lead. 
Keith B. O'ConneU, on behalf of 
Students Concerned for Danehy 
and Notre Dame 
ernment constitution which. reads that the ne1' dircl'tor mu~t be appro1Td by the Bo:1rd of Commis· sioners. I propose that the Board o~ Commissioners reject the appoint­
' ment of Tom Gr~·p .. He is not qualitied to hold the job. Should a person who has nc1 cr: run anything other than a SSO campaign. be put in charge of an organization whose cash tlow is more than 5300.000? The Board of Commissioners should then look 01··er the other ca11didates and pick someone who can step into the job and begin solving the problems immediately. Not someone who must waste the first few weeks ,just fmding the men's room. 
[Charlie Moran is in charge of Special Projects for Student Cnion.] 
ii1l)..)t;.;· ·~"-' 'l~.:~L.t._•·:Lto.~-. 


~-----~--~-
Featur
The long Silence 
letters to a lonely God Reverend Robert Griffin 
Friday, April1, 1977 the observer 
5 


I remember when I was a child, Sunny Lydon's Uncle Danny died, and all of us neighborhood kids were taken into the Lydon house, where the wake was held, and allowed to see the body. On the day of burial, I remember watching the gleaming hearse and the funeral limousines leaving the house on the way to the church, and afterwards to the cemetery. The Lydons were Catholic, and Uncle Danny, a bachelor, was Mrs. Lydon's brother. He lived with Sunny's family; and I knew him mostly from the Saturday afternoons when he used to drive us to the movies. His wake was my first remembered experience of death. It was strange because of my sense of a friend gone away, and 1t was strange because it was Catholic. 
When I was a child saying goodbye to Uncle Danny. I think l thought that death meant he was going away only for a little while. I knew he wouldn't be driving us to movies anymore; but I wasn't prepared for the long, uninterrupted silence from his side of the grave. Danny was a quiet man; but it has been over forty years now since he was last heard from;as a child,hearing talk of resurrection, I thought Jesus had made earlier arrangements for his return than that. I didn't know I would never catch up with Danny again until after I had lived all the rest of my life. I feared the gleaming hearse and the funeral· lim­ousines; I was afraid they might come to 

A wild weekend of music begins Friday night with Notre Dame's own Big Band, led by Father George Wiskirchen, who has been with the Festival longer than anyone can remember. Some of us weren't born yet when Father George first brought his Melodons to N.D. One of the finest jazz educators in the nation, he has prepared another talented band•for CJF, featuring Neil Gillespie on piano, Steve Calonje on drums, and Nick Tallerico compositions. 
Offering something for those who like the unusual, Texas Southern Jazz Ensem­ble shortly follows Notre Dame. TSU will feature a very big band with ten(!) saxophones, which should provide a pow­erful yet polished sound. 
Fredonia University returns to CJF with two bands. Friday night the Jazz Combo, led by li:mil Palame, a former award winner at CJF for his compositions, and Gary Keller on sax, will present more of their own works as well as classic modem jazz tunes. The Big Band, which appears on Saturday night, is also a former award winner. The band has done extensive recording, and has recently released an album entitled Thursday Night at the Fountain GriD, which features a!l student compositions. 
Saturday .1fternoon CJF pulls out the stops and presents bands which in addition to being musically excellent, are refresh­ingly from the mainstream of modern jazz carry me away to the unfamiliar place called a cemetery. But I did not yeat dread death from the mourner's point of view, as 
•he long silence that empties life of the laughter of a friend as suddenly as a noonday darkness empties a room of sunlight. "0 Grave, where is the victory? 0 Death, where is thy sting?" If I had heard the words, I would have understood them to mean Sunny Lydo.n's uncle was not gone forever; and that some Saturday, he would be back for the matinee comedy flicks at the Cameo Theatre, thanks to the help of the Easter Jesus. 
Even more fearful for me than the Catholic carelessness in losing uncles was the death of a neighborhood child named Betty Lee, when I was in the third grade. Betty, you see, was a chubby child; and I was a chubby child. Betty was also born with a congenital heart ailment; heart­wise, I was healthy as a horse, though the health of my tonsils wasn't much go brag about. Stupid adults, as an encouragement to me to conquer chubbiness, would say: "Remember what happened to Betty Lee." 
Other kids had nightmares about King Kong and the caprices of the Tooth Fairy turned vicious. My nights were terrorized by the thoughless example of Betty Lee. hustling precociously off ot God, heavier and more obese than any child has a right to be. I remember, on the day of her burial pressing my face against the window glass, · 
in their styles. Citizen's Band, which hails from the University of Iowa, is apparently on the leading edge of the avante garde in jazz. Following their motto of "usually expect the unusual from U. of 1.", C.B. describes itself as a "co!lective of individ­ual musicians in a free, self-limiting big band, without limits on enrollment, an with an emphasis on experimentation". They will perform their "Symphony for Clean Air" at the afternoon session. 
The Jeff Pellaton Combo also appears at this session, bringing back a few memories with their emphasis on old Be-Bop tunes. This is the combo'fs first appearance at CJF. Memphis State University brings fine Southern Jazz to CJF Sat. Afternoon, led by their accomplished director, Thomas Ferguson. 
Saturday night the Notre dame Combo 
with Neil Gillespie, Bill Boris, Cedric 
Williams, and Steve Calonje makes an 
appearance. The combo has played at the 
Nazz and Vegetable Buddies several times 
this year, and have built up a large Notre 
Dame following. Following ND will be the 
MIT Festival Big Band, which will disprove 
again for the Stepan Center audience the 
notion held by some that scientists and . engineers have computers for brains. 
Working on their own, without the backing 
of a music department these "gear heads" 
always manage to blow half the bands at 
the festi~al off the stage with their precise watching the funeral cars move through the rain, vowing that I would give up sweets, candy, and sticky things with sugar in them, so I wouldn't die as a piggy kid suffering fromfatty deposits around the heart. I never mourned for Betty Lee, because I considered her to be too spoiled to be likeable; but I was heart-broken for her mother, who always cried when she saw me out of grief for her lost girl. So I grew up listening to my heartbeat, worried it would stop on a whim; fretting for the sorrow of my family who would have to send potted lilies to the church at Easter, if I died young. But I couldn't tell my parents that because Betty Lee was mortal, I knew I was mortal and might soon need a hearse. I figured that they knew I was mortal, and delicate in the heart, and might go anytime, but they were keeping it secret. I remember once, when I was sick · with tonsillitis, and the doctor came, I lay in bed listening to their yoices in another room, thinking they were planning my funeral. 
Years afterwards, my mother told me that as a child, I was considered to have had a remarkably strong heart (I still do, I think.) But when you are seven, and stupid adults are saying: "Hey there, fat little kid, remember what happened to Betty Lee,'' you get nervous. I would like to say that Easter was the feast day when I made my peace with death; but to tell the truth, I 
musicianship and enthusiasm. Expect the · same performance from this bunch again 
this year. 

When the charge from MIT begins to 
wear down, Bill Boris of the ND combo will 
clamber back on the stage, this time with 
Greg Shearer. Their Guitar Duet is a 
precise, complicated and fascinating thing 
to hear. At last year's Festival, Boris, 
playing with Kevin Chandler, won an 
award for outstanding guitarist, and un­
doubtedly the new Duet will be as 
impressive. · · 
The Medium Rare Big Band finishes the 
Saturday night set, coming from the New 
England Conservatory of Music, one of the 
most prestigeous music schools in the 
country. In their audition, Medium Rare 
showed the greatest depth in musical 
styles of any ·band at the Festival. they 
presented four tunes in four different 
styles, Be-Bop,Latin Jazz, Jazz Rock, and a 
Duke Ellington style piece, and performed 
them all with amazing skill. Medium Rare 
is led by Pat Hollenbaeck and features 
Akira Tana on drums. 
While the judges wrangle over the 
distribution of awards, the CJF guest band 
from Eastman School of Music, "Gazelle" 
will perform. "Gazelle" stands out from 
the rest of the bands at the Festival 
because they consist of six musicians who 
will all be among the finest to appear. 
Howie Shear on trumpet and drummer settled my night nerves by reciting the Twenty-third Psalm. I knew that Easter was the reason things would tum out well for Uncle Danny and Betty Lee: Sunny Lydon's mother told me so in an opinion I considered narrowly Roman Catholic. Betty Lee's mother said she preferred Easter to Christmas, in an opinion considered close to madness. The comfort I found myself that kept me from becoming a morbid child--the comfort that kept me from frightening mys~lf to-death--was the Twenty-third Psalm: "Yea though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death. 
I will fear no evil, for thou art with me ... " 
Adults need Easter as the earth needs April when birds and flowers and the green of meadows are given back again. As a child, i wanted to survive forever. As an adult, I still am in no hurry to move down the avenue in the gleaming hearse; but in my seasoned years, I also understand the sweetness of April. Easter is the April of our hearts, coming after a long, hard winter. We cannot guess at the beauty that awaits us, or the ways the silences are broken, in the eternal April of God's year. It is not just my immortality that is celebrated; but everyman's immortality, and God immortal with us. 
Of all mortality made immortal, spring­time is the promise that ·nothing is ever lost--nothing at all, including uncles; especially uncles--and the heartbeat of a child. 
John Alfieri are prize winning artists from the awesome Fredonia bands "Of 1975 and 1976. Bill Kennedy on tenor sax, Bob Sheppard on alto sax, and John Oddo, pianist, are fine musicians in the graduate program at Eastman. H allowed to compete with the other bands, Eastman would collect most of the prizes. Having them here at the Festival will be a great experience for. the Stepan audience. 
The Award Winner's Jam ends the evening; another highlight in an outstand­ing evening of jazz. Besides the bands mentioned, others from Ohio State, North­western, NOrthern Iowa, Wisconsin Con­servatory, Eastern Dlinois and more, who were selected from a great many applicants for their superior talent, will perform. In all, there will be at least ten solid hours of ;. music, enough to fill anyone's appetite for excellent jazz. It has been said that if CJF were help at another university, there would be wars fought over the tickets. It is undoubtly a superior festival with a strong national reputation. Come to the Festival 
· and try the sound if you are new to jazz, and have a good time in a relued, hip, atmosphere. There is a whole world qfjazz open to you this weekend. 
All events will be held at Stc;>an Center except the Jazz Symposium which is held . at the main lecture room of Crowly Hall of Music on campus at 2:30 Friday). 
I 

T .. ·, ,-r, ~·-r-.. --­
' 
I 
I 


the observer Friday, April1, ,977 
Judge orders Khaalis jailed for death threats 
W ASHINGTON,[AP] • Hamaas Abdul Khaalis, leader of the Hanafi Moslem band that held 134 people hostage, was ordered jailed on Thursday after a judge was told Khaalis had been overheard mak­ing "blood-curdling threats" in a wire-tapped telephone conversa­tion. 
The judge said he does not · regard the threats "as idle words" and agreed with prosecutors that Khaalis posed a danger to the community. 
Immediately, U. S. marshals surrounded Khaalis, who had walk­ed into the courtroom a free man. He was taken to jail under heavy guard. 
Prosecutors said police wire-taps had recorded Khaalis' conversa­tions. 
Khaalis had been out on personal recognizance and it was that no-
Laetrile bill survives attack 
INDIANAPOUS, [AP] • A House­approved bill to legalize the use of laetrile in the treatment of cancer survived a near-fatal procedural attack Thursday and moved to passage stage in the Indiana Sen­ate amid a barrage of personal accusations. 
The attacks left sponsor Julia M. Carson, D-lndianapolis, a cancer victim herself, in tears and inflam­ed the tempers of two of laetrile's staunchest supporters. 
The battle began before noon when a co-sponsor, Elden C. Tipton, D-Jasonville, called the bill for second-reading amendments despite a Senate rule which gave Mrs. Carson sole control of the bill. 
Tipton said he called the bill because Mrs. Carson, who was· attending a Democratic National Committee meeting in Washing­ton, D. C., was absent and Thurs­day was the last day for the Senate to move House bills through the amendment stage. < 
Tipton said Mrs. Carson had not told him she would be out of town and assured him the bill would be called on schedule. 
Although he did not mention her by name, Tipton said there was a 
Egyptian exhibit to open in Chicago on April 15 
CHICAGO, [AP] • If King the imagination smce they were Tutankhamun were alive today, freed from the sands of the desert. he'd expect us to make a fuss over The tomb was discovered in 1922 him. And we are. by the archaeologist Howard Carter 
Egyptian fever will probably and his sponsor Lord Carnarv()n. It 
break out throughout the Midwest took 10 years to carefully describe, as 55 of the best preserved artifacts record and remove the exquisite discovered in the Pharaoh's tomb treasures buried with the young in 1922 go on exhibit at the Field king. Museum of Natural History for four Most of the treasures remain in months beginning April 15. the Cairo Museum, but the Egyp-
Egyptians believed in a life after tian government, in cooperation death and they would not have with the National Endowment for found it strange or amusing that a the Humanities and the Metropoli­wealthy Texas woman recently tan Museum of art in New York asked to be buried in her favorite City, has sent 55 of the best lace negligee seated in her $40,000 artifacts, including Tutankha­sports car, with the seat comfort-mum's famous, gold funeral mask, ably leaning back. Why get a on tour of six American cities backache. It's a long trip. through April, 1979. 
King Tut would have approved. King Tut's extremely life-like He didn't want a backache either mask is inlaid with carnelian lapis and his officials put everything into lazuli, colored glass and quartz and his grave that he might need in the was placed directly over the King's Land of the Dead -clothes, food, mummified body,which was then . furniture, chariot, weapons, effi-placed in three gold coffins and a : gies of gods, rings and necklaces, sarcophagus. 
1 

and even games to play. Other. spectacular items in the The Texas widow was an ama-1 exhibit are a wooden gilt-statuette 
teur when compared to King of the goddess Selket overlaid in Tutankhamun, 1334-1325 B.C., the gold, a gilded figure of Tutankha­boy-king who ruled over Egypt mun harpooning and a small, gold briefly 3,300 years ago and died as shrine of marvelous craftsmanship. a teenager of unknown causes. The Field Museum staff has 
King Tut, like other Pharaohs, created a special exhibit area, with was accustomed to being treated lighting and wall graphics, to give like a god. But Tut's tomb and the the impression that one is actually tombs of other Pharaohs were not descending into the four-room fu­sacred to grave robbers who plun· neral chambers. dered most-of them. Only one has The 55 objects will be presented 
. been found intact in the Valley of in approximately the same order as the Kings and that is the tomb of ! they were found in the rooms -t!te Tutankhamuo, whoserr.. treaS\ll"es 1 ~.alttechamber; .the burial chamber, have dazzled the eyes and sparked 1-'lfie 'tteas~i-Y · aricflne annex. 
movement to kill the bill. 
Mrs. Carson, who made an emergency flight back to Indiana­polis, returned to the Senate Thurs­day evening and said she had planned all along to be back in time to call the bill. 
Shaking and occasionally break­ing into sobs, Mrs. Carson said she had asked for sole control of the bill because "cancer has no friends.. .I did not want it to be a political issue." 
Earlier this week, Mrs. Carson told The Associated Press she was having second thoughts about lae­
1 trile and was no longer certain the bill would clear the Senate as had been expected. 
"I still am not convinced that laetrile is a cure for cancer," she said Thursday evening. "But I was 
· not going to kill the bill." 1 "I do not believe that those kinds of innuendoes would be placed on
1

anybody else in this General As­
1 sembly today," she said. Tipton, his voice booming, fol­lowed Mrs. Carson to the micro­phone and said, "It is one of the most unfair things that has ever been said to me, that I picked someone out to discriminate 
money bond that was revoked on grounds he had violated conditions of his release. 
Nine of the men who participated in the hostage incident three weeks ago are in jail in lieu of $50,000 bond each. The other two are being held in lieu of $75,000. 
The same judge who agreed to let Khaalis remain free on personal recognizance, ordered him jailed on Thursday. 
Shortly after the three-hour court hearing, treasury agents arrested Kha~lis' son-in-law, Abdul Aziz, on charges that he had violated gun Jaws. Warren McConnell, spokes­man for the treasury's Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms, said he did not know what prompt­ed the arrest. Aziz had sat in the courtroom during the hearing, beside Khaalis' veiled wife. 
against because they were a wo­man or black." 
Addressing Mrs. Carson, he said, "It was quite obvious the bill was going to die despite your good intentions. There was more than one individual who intended that laetrile would not be called on second reading. I thought if you truly wanted this thing you would appreciate me calling the bill." 
Earlier, when Tipton called the bill, he was challenged by Senate President Pro Tern Robert Fair. 
The Beginning o_f Holy Week 
5:15pm Saturday  Rev. Robert Griffin, C.S·C·  
9:15 am Sunday  Rev. Edward O'Connor, C·S·C·  
10:15 am Sunday  Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, C·S·C·  

(this liturgy will begin with a Palm Sunday Procession at the grotto.) 
12:15 pm Sunday R~v. William Toohey, C·S·C· 
Vespers and Choral Passion will be at 7:15pm in the Lady Chapel. The celebrant will be Rev. Euge~e Gorski, C·S·C· 
Saturday 
$1. 

PALM SUNDAY 
ND/SMC Senior Class Formal Bids on sale in LaFortune Ballroom 
> 

& LeMans Lobby 2-4pm 
.e... ~i?;.r~:-,"" ...':_-..h..:.h.·..,~....·;-:-;-_~~.-..:. ... :~1.\t.11...,~-----__·.......-.......~............ ~·..-tt='.:#"...~~~~ 
I 
• 


ur 



dependent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's 
Friday, April1, 1977 

Hesburgher denies mismanagement 
Sign petition to double tuition 

by Quincy Purebred Libel Editor 

Charges that the University 
needs a tuition increase only be­
cause of extravagance and mis­
management were branded 
"naughty, naughty" and "all a big 
fib" by Fr. Teddy Hesburgher, 
University president. He called on 
all undergraduates to sign the 
tuition petition now being circulat­
ed. 
At a press conference yestetday Hesburgher tried to refute charges which have recently appeared on unsigned wall posters. There is no truth to the claim that University officers are using extravagant transportation for personal purpos­es at University expense. Fr. Grinchael has not traded in his Mercedes for a new Jaguar. He still has the Mercedes. Consistent with his vow of poverty he will not get a new one until next year. 
Hesburgher also denied that his personal Lear jet is put to private use. "I need it for my job. How can I be a world savior if I can't see the world I'm supposed to save?" 
Charges that the University hosts numerous wild parties and that "the food and drink flow freely under the Dome" are also false, Hesburgher said. "We only have one party a semester for staff and friends. True, last time we invited Bangladesh, but we wanted to do something to fight world hunger. The posters say that our watercool­ers are filled with beer but they fail to note that this is an Irish school and that we have a reputation to uphold. Besides, if you had to deal with Grinchaell every day you'd need a little liquid refreshment too." 
Hesburgher urged students not to sign the anti -tuition-petition petitiOn which is now being circu­lated by an anonymous Anti-Tui­tion-Petition-Petition Commission. The leaders of the Commission are unknown but suspicion has fallen on a coalition of publications of people from WIND, the Absurder and the Spastic who are allegedly in opposition because they were not 
invited to any of the wild parties. "Grad students are so cheap we 
SMC gym funds run out; 
I 

clubhouse given to sports 
by Morine Cybel Rainbow explained the fund 
raising procedures for the center 
The funds ran out today for the and said that the drive was "going St. Mary's Athletic Center and the pretty well." structure will remain incomplete "We've already got three until 1982. Director of Housing, M&M's drives in full swing and Clod Rainbow, announced that haveplansfor bake sales all through plans have been altered and the the month of April. Also, we've clubhouse will now bt; remodeled to scheduled a pay-to-meet-your-rna­be the new athletic center. jor night and have installed pay 
"I guess the athletic center we toilets in all dorms. These projects were building was just too big of a should bring in a lot.'' project for us. We're going to have Rainbow expects the clubhouse to scale down our goals a bit," facility to be completed by the end Rainbow explained. of 1978. Problems arose in receiv-
Costs of the proposed renovation ing materials during the factory of the clubhouse to house the shut downs in the March heat spell. athletic facilities are to be $89. Materials are being sent by cara­
"We can't put in a pool, track, van and are expected in about three tennls courts, volleyball nets or months. racketball courts because of The incomplete structure of the funds," College President John athletic center by McCandless Hall Dugout said, "but we will have two will be used for emergency fresh­lovely ping-pong tables and a man housing next fall. Army cots, basketball hoop on the porch." coat ·racks and emergency army 
The center will have an indoor rations are presently being stored bleacher capacity of 22 and a for the expected overflow. lockerroom complete with a show-"The center is perfect for temp­er. proary housing." said Minnie 
"We're building with the idea Mouse, director of housing. "It's 
that we can add on in a few years," big and we can put at least 200 
Dugout explained, "Maybe after a fre~hmen there until we can get 
while we can add outdoor badmin-them pennanent housing by fore­
.,.to;;;;n;:._.;~--:•t~~.a•.~~..d• .••"'i~•=,.oi~i!i·:-r:!-r.r~offiis--!11,_c•~~~·~i_oij~7~1Uiil.s~~-~-~ ,
..-~:.e.-viieiir,jjjaiiol.-b#!i~iiikl,!i;ii~b~~~·~iiilliilsii.•"•_.~n,.lg~&;, ... ~1!!::;-!111,.-.•..,""."'•.I!!I>)P·;·.•~~~~~~~~ .i;~;.~'7!~!~~ ·.;<• .·.',r.:-.r. ~~~!~ Jr?~;~-~c~i~~~ )_ 
If the University does not get its I figure even Grinchaell can't scrape $15 million loan to the University 
100% tuition increase it will have to close down or hold classes only three days a week Hesburgher said. To encourage students to sign, Hesburgher threatened to hold classes on a different three days every week without telling students which they would be. Attendence would be mandatory. 
Contingency plans call for strip­ping the gold off the Dome and selling it. "We'd replace it with silver," Hesburgher said, "but who wants ot admit they come from a school with a silver dome?" 
Contrary to charges of extrava­gance, Hesburgher claimed the University was cutting costs. "We will save $5 million in salaries by axing all profs over 65 and all those giving us trouble in the Faculty Senate," he said. 
The decision to require a petition to raise tuition was made after negotiations between the Admin­istration and the Student Life Council. Eddie VanHassle, Grand High Poobah of the SLC said, "When I heard about the Univer­sity's terribly financial shape I was shocked. I think that the University is a valuable addition to campus life." 
The SLC moved to help the University out. It set up a commit­tee to appoint a commission to decide on a method of deciding about how to go about deciding whether there was a problem or not and if so what kind of committee should be appointed to deal with the crisis. After nine weeks of around-the-clock negotiations at Nickie's, the SLC and the Admin­istration agreed on a 17-point plan to deal with the situation. 
"Originally, Hesburgher wanted 
o just run a poll of student attitudes," VanHassle said. "The idea was to ask five students whether they would agree to the 100% increase. That seemed fair but we got a little suspicious when we heard that all five students were named Rockefeller.'' 
When asked why the SLC agreed to let the decision about raising graduate student tuition be made by a poll, VanHassle explained, up five who will agree to an from the Morrissey Loan Fund. The increase." Fund's manager, Mickey "Shark" 
As part of the agreement the SLC Morrissey, said that interest on the is insisting that Student Body loan would not run over 5% Treasurer Mack "the knife" Heath monthly. The University will have be appointed to oversee the U­to put up the football team as niversity business office. Heath collateral. will not have authority over educa­Fr. Eddie Juice, executive vice­tiona! policy but it is rumored that president, explained where the he believes much money could be extra tuition money would go. After saved by abolishing the provost's paying off the loan and paying office and replacing it with an regular academic expenses the on-campus strip joint. University would still have enough 
The SLC has-agreed to co-sign a cash for several long-delayed pro-
Grits and Fritz deposed; Grinchae/1 named president 
jects. "We could engrave -Fr. Hesburhger's face on the Dome and set up some Golden Arches to go beside," Juice said. "We plan to buy a book for the library. We could complete the renovation of LaFortune by installing a third lake in place of the useless ballroom.'' 
Finally Juice noted that there would be enough money left over to send Hesburgher to Timbuktoo and Grinchaell to Hanoi for a year of studies. "When the students hear about this, those signatures should really come rolling in." 
outside and played football for five days until all the reporters died of heart attacks. 
The emergence of Grinchaell came as a surprise to many political experts here as they thought that Hesburger, the president of the midwestern college would get the nod over Grinchaell. However, Hesburger mysticaiiy disappeared last night, and rumor has it that he was forcably turned into a letter asking alumni for more money. 
Grinchaell' s press secretary, Brother Justice, A.S.P.'. said that i Grinchaell did not have anything to 1 do with Hesburger's disappear­ance. When a reporter asked him how he knew that, he declared, "I know everything. I am everything. I am GOD." He was carried away an hour later in a straight-jacket. 
In his first speech to the Ameri­can people, Grinchaell said, ''gob­ble, gobble." Although it was a very short speech, it went over very well with the country. A Di1J1 House spokesman said that what Grinch­aell really meant was to say, "Although we of course recognize Americans as adults, that doesn't mean that we must make them face the harsh real world out there. So we must control these people for their own good. Of course, we will mAe mistakes, but our excus~ll be that we just love these people and we really are only amateurs. 
Even if the  budget is  now  $900  
billion.''  
Thr  l.ocal  press  did  not  really  

unde,;.:and what Grin•.haell meant by '!fn Loco Parakeet," but they premised that they would find out tomc.,rrow. They apologized that they couldn't find out about it now, but Father Grinchaell is makil;lg everyone go to bed before 9 pm ~ that he can tuck us all iil,. 
Bulletin by Drew J. Tongue AP Non-Reporter 

WASHINGTON, D.C. [AP] In a bizarre series of events, leaders of the government here have resigned to become innate objects and the provost of an unknown midwest college has become president, with no o_ne really knowing what in the hell is going on. 
James Grinchaell, A.S.P., took control of the government last night when the Chairman of the Joint Chief of Staff, General Brow­inie, threw his, and a third grade class in Utah's support behind Grinchaell, instead of the other person seeking the office, ex­Playboy bunnie Holly Oh-My. 
The sequence of events started when a Canadian scientist who had nothing to do after he discovered that all his rats had died of cancer when he exposed them to 1,000,000 degree heat, invented a machine that could transfer brain waves into any innate object. 
As soon as he heard of the 
invention, former President Jimmy 
Kotter (no relation to the TV. show 
star) immediately had the govern: 
ment seize control of the machine 
so that he could become a peanut. 
"I'm tired of this job and my mom always thought I had a brain of a peanut, so what the hell, I can't really lose anything," he said before he was hooked to the machine. His last words were, "I hope Billy doesn't eat me in the back of his service station and drench me down with a cheap 
After Kotter's end, the rest of the Cabinet also-used the machine to become such objects ranging 
from  an  ice-cream  cone  to  a  
wastecan.  When  Vice-President  
Walter F.  Woundale tried to  use  

the machine to become a Minne­sota lake, the machine found that he had no brain waves and instead made him into a newspaper editor. 
Ex-president Richard M. Nizon also used the machine to become a football. He explained to reporters that they would have him to kick around as long as they kept him full of air.1 The reporters then went 
Ex-Presinut Nizon gives a final stare before his brain waves are 



--------~~~~-­
the absurder Friday, April1,_1977 
-The World in Shorts 
·--·-==International 
Pepper talks reopen 
MOSCOW [AA]--Soviet leader Lionel "I.M." Baloney said yesterday he would participate in the PEPPER talks with the Arnerkans in an effort to reach a new treaty on the ingredients used in Pepsi-Cola. President Timmy Cottopn said he was "real pleased" with Baloney's decision. 
KLUTZ pilot denies blame 
SANTA CRUZ DE NOWHERE* PARAKEET ISLANDS [AA]--The p'"1t of the KLUTZ jet that crashed with the Pan-Arm jet earlier this week stated yesterday, "It wasn't my fault. The other guys did it. I want my mommy." Aeroport officials cc-uld not be reached for 
comment. 

Pill poppers: don't breathe · 
:'\lEW YORK IAAI--A recent report written bv a very special 
commbsion to study the effects of breathing on the American 
mt•mhPr!l; [from left to right] Fonzie Failing, spock, High, pt·opk said men over 175 who take aspirin should not breathe when 
Missing is the Grinch who !>tole Christmas. they swallow the tablets. The report said this practice could result in the. pill-tilker choking. 
-On Campus Today__,_,. 'Relevant' professors added 
The University has responded to HellsAngels Honorary Fellowship. soliu or agricultural drugs for their 
the Campus Ministry's plea for Joining the theology department personal sickness or for their own
1 ·Udnl 
lecture, "how to succeed in football without really relevancy in the curriculum, and will be Sister Mary Ellen Spock, personal happiness. 
trying" by dan devine, ace pit. 
five new members have been F.A.G. This makes her (or him) the A $200,000 laboratory fee will beadded to the faculty as full profes­first in the history of the University charged for drug materials whichOtlOO hours meet your major, major nuke o'reiley, war room, sors. to be invited to the campus from after experiments, will be permitt­rotc building. 
Now teaching in the department her order. She will be teaching ed to be sold to other students. Theof history is Professor Marcus • 'The Theology of Interplanetary only restriction will be on the profit today cadaver exhibit, "stiffs" isis art gallery. 
"Fonzie" Failing. Failing will Travel," which is limited to mem­limit which now stands at $700,000. 
teach a course entitled, "The bers of the Notre Dame football8am-5prn tryouts, male models needed for library penthouse High, the founder of the BongHistory of the SO's: The Great Era team. Any other students wishingmagazine, 14th floor, memorial library. 
Center for Advanced Gaseous In­of the Motorcycle Kings." The to enroll must have the instructor's course will be offered to all consent. 

halation Studies, did graduate3-opm happy hour, $1 beers, free water, fat wally's, Stateundergraduate and graduate stu­Spock received her bachelor's (or work at the San Francisco library, nickies, and south bend jail. 

University School of Pharmacy in Failing who obtained his Ph.D. AC/DC Seminary of the Woods in 
dents as well for five credits. bachelorette's) degree from the Haight-Ashbury, California. 
8:30, 8:45, movie, disney double feature, son of flubber, and from Uniondale High School, in Greencastle, Ind. Team teaching the new course in'3:S1pm the devil in miss flubber, freezer, south dining hall. 
Uniondale, N.Y. pursued advanced Offering a course to all under­the sociology department two bro­studies in his field on interstate graduates will be Dr. Stephen thers, Dr. Wilson and William12 midnight album hour, wet willie and the society for creative Highway 101. stretching througl-t High. the new addition to the Friendly. The course, "Interper­anachronism: their greatest hits wsnd 640am. 
Oregaon and California. Failing chemistry department. He will sonal Interaction," will be restrict­will also be offering a seminar teach a course on personal pharma­ed to male undergraduates. Bothno-time candidate forum, candidates discuss their platforms entitled, "Ayyy, An Introduction to cology, explaining to students the teachers will serve as facultyfor the office of sbp yesman, sand trap, 9th green, Reing Cool." He also received the various uses of tiquid, gas, and advisors for GSND. 
burke memorial golf course. 
ND garbage blamed *Sick PeoDI'!_ 
Farmer Brown's pigs get cancer
Editor: Pat Cole 
Layout: Bob Brink, joe Bauer, 
by Kinki Kooks have never been any complaints cans have a life expectancy of only Drew Bauer and Paul Schap­
Senior Stiff Reporter about cancer," he declared.· one week due to the corrosive pler "These FDA reports are all a nature of the contents. 
Writers: Gregg Bangs, Drew' bunch of hogwash anyway. It's Sominex and his colleague Mind Bauer, Joe Bauer, Barbara· 
The Food and Drug Administra­never been proved that a single pig Bender are considering possibleBreitenstein, Bob Brink, Deb-· ever died from eating our gar­action should the FDA decide to
tion may soon be banning anotherbie Dahrling, Chris Datzman, bage." Priceless declined to com­ban the garbage. "We have to keep Notice: All articles in the dangerous substance from theMaureen Flynn, Pat Hanifin, sense our
market. ment on the student mortality rate. a of priorities aroundABSURDER are fictitious andKatie Kerwin, Cathy Nolan, are intended to poke fun at Farm researchers have announc­He also vehemently denied rumors here," Sominex cautioned. He has Tony Pace, Jack Pizzolato, said that the laundromat could be
1 various pooh-bahs and the ed that nine out of every ten of that dining hall walls have been
Maureen Sajbel and Marian I treated for corrosion after food used to wash all the cancer-causingOBSERVER staff itself. The Farmer George Brown's pigs haveUlicny 1 
tights or that dining hall garbage ingredients out of the garbage. take offense and can laugh fed a ~teudy diet of Notre Dame 
staff hopes the readers don't developed cancerous tumors when 
Ihe Absurder was founded by 
Tom O'Neil, an ex-drunk and along with the rest of us. garbage. Church Council chooses
An FDA spodesman said that
former editor. 1---------------+ 
decision concerning a ban on the
Y esterda ~· in The Absurder's story 
ND fight song as theme
product would be withheld until
on "Sex on Campus", we made an 
"conclusive evidence" is produced
error. We actually had all quotes by Jennifer Rara will pre-empt his suggestion to 
to indicate a direct link between
attributed to the right people, President Jimmy Carter to consider 
cancer and ingestion of the gar­
ERRATUM 
spelled all names right and didn't Notre Dame's "Fight Song" has its adoption as the United States 
bage.

make a single mistake. We been chosen as the theme of the national anthem. 
Director of Notre Dame Food
apologize,· for this error, but we National Council of Churches, ac­The "Notre Dame Fight Song"
Services Edmund Priceless de­
were stoned last night. We promise cording to Dr. Claire Randall, was composed in 1928 by Michael 
fended his garbage, saying, "Sure
that we will make a mistake in our executive director. and John Shea, two Notre Dame 
it may be fatal to pigs, but it has
arr 

next issue. A motion to adopt the fight song students. 
never been proven dangerous to 
was passed unanimously at an rats. Besides, the study presumes executive board meeting last night. We ran out of things 
that this stuff is eaten daily over a 
"We are proud to incorporate
Rumor tells squirrels period of three of four years.'' to run in this space
this theme of a traditional Ameri­
Tommy Sominex, student 
. can institution into the framework
to quit throwing nuts spokesman for Farmer ;:Jrown's of our organization," Randall stat­so we decided to 
pigs in past controversies,, indica­
ed. 

ted that he was "enraged" that American clergy representing run some creative "Luckily she wasn't hurt," Ru­
hl· Jake Pizzahacold once again officials were trying to numerous demoninations have
mor commented, "but it's scary to white space.
· Absurd Person deprive the pigs of their susten­been invited to the April 29ththink that someone could just be ance. 
ceremony to commemorate thewalking along and get hit in the 
He charged that the whole thing 
fight song's adoption. Fr. Theodore back of the head with a twig."
Dean of Students James J. was part of a plot to increase big Hesburgh, University president,Rumor stressed that he is only
Rumor, urged Notre Dame squir­government involvement and hint­and Fr. James Burtchaell, provost,giving squirrels "a courteous and·
rels refrain from throwing acorns ed that it may indicate discrimina­will represent Notre Dame at thepolite reminder. 
and sticks at students because of tion against Catholic garbage as celebration which will be held in St. 
"I'm not going to grab the firs~
the possibility of inflicting, what he well. 
John the Divine Cathedral insquirrel I see with a handful o~
termed, "serious lumps and Stated Sominex, "Cigarettes and Brooklyn, New York. Heshurgh will nuts. My concern," he continued,
bumps." saccharin aren't banned for pigs, deliver the main address on the"is that squirrels remember that
Rumor cited an incident that so why should we take away their topic, "Football's Potential for theit's one thing to throw an acorn at a
occurred on March 30 near the basic source of nourishment? They Advancement of Ecumenisrn." 
tree and another thing to hif'", a
grotto in which a group of ten male are the only ones who actually The Notre Dame Glee Club,student."
squirrels "pelted" a St. Mary's enjoy eating the stuff and they're under the direction of Dr. David shuttle bus with acorns. One of the "If squirrels just accept their the only ones who can't." 
lsele, has been invited to sing thesocial position and the responsibil­
acorns, he said, broke a back Priceless, not known as a friend official version of the fight song.
window in the bus, and a St. ity that goes with it,'d' Rumor to pigs, maintains that ihe garbage According to Hesburgh, the hon­
Mary's student had her conversa­concluded, "then maybe we all must be safe. "We've been feeding There were no elephants on
or of the fight song's selection by
tion interrupted. can enjoy spring." it to students for years and there campus today.
the National Council of Churches 


by Holde M. Up 

Four student hijackers detoured 
a bus enroute to Chicago on a 
Freshman Year field trip yester­
day. 
According to Emil T. Huffpuff, 
dean of Freshman Year Studies, a 
student approached him approx­
imately 45 minutes after leaving 
the University and warned him that 
several students in the rear of the 
bus had taken a number of labor­
atory gas bulbs from thf"tr lunch 
bags. Huffpuff rose to investigate 
but was stopped in the aisle by one 
of the students who waved a gas 
bulb in each hand. 
"He shouted at the driver to 
detour the bus to a suburb of Gary 
or else he would turn the stopper 
on the bulb and fill the bus with 
hydrogen cyanide," Huffpuff stat­
ed. 
"I advised the bus driver to 
comply with the request because I 
had no idea if the students were 
playing a poor practical joke or if 
they actually had something po­
tentially lethal in the gas bulbs," 
he added. 
According to Huffpuff, three 
other students held gas bulbs but 
remained in their seats. He cau­
tioned the freshmen to remain 
calm and to open their windows 
''just as a precautionary measure.'' 
The spokesman for the group 
assured the passengers they would 
not be hurt unless someone at­
tempted to take away the gas 
containers by force. "All we want 
is immunity from academic proba­
tion and guaranteed seven's on the 
rest of the 'Emils' including the 
double one,'' he stated. 
The student handed a typed list of the hijackers' demands and requested that he sign it. Huffpuff asked the student to reconsider the consequences of his actions, but he refused to ·listen to Huffpuff's advice. 
When the bus reached Gary, the stude,t directed the driver to a service station where he telephon­e~ his.home in a pay bopth. During thts time, his three companions positioned the·aselves in the bus aisle to prevent anyone from gett­ing off, Huffpuff stated. 
After placing the call, the stu­dent reboarded the bus and direct­ed the driver to his home on the western outskirts of the city. The student's parents were waiting outside when the bus arrived. 
"I as):ed the student's parents to persuade him to give up this foolish idea,'' Huffpuff noted, adding, "His father assured me he had tried to do so while ott the telephone, but his son had refus­ed to consider .any alternatives to his plan." 
The student spoke to his parents while leaning out a bus window. "I just wanted .you to see that I'll keep my promise to bring up the grades ou my mid-semester report," he stated. "I won't let the bus go back to school until Dean Huffpuff signs 
my demands." didn't want to hurt anybody." 
He told the driver to head south Huffpuff instructed the driver to 
until he changed his instructions, head the bus back to Notre Dame 
Huffpuff stated. "He continued to where he turned the four students 
argue with me about signing his over to the custody of their rectors. 
paper, and I could see I was getting They are expected to receive 
nowhere in convincing him to hearings with their respective hall 
change his mind," he continued. judicial boards later in the week. 
According to Huffpuff, the bus "I only did it for my GPA," one 
then rounded a sharp turn, and one of the students commented. "I'll 
of the hijackers lost his balance and never get into medical school with 
dropped his gas bulb on the floor. the grades I have now." 
When the glass shattered, students The mother of the hijackers' 
panicked and pushed toward the spokesman telephoned Huffpuff to 
windows. apologize for her son's behavior. "I 
The hijackers' spokesman shout­didn't think we had exerted that 
ed that there was no danger. "It's much pressure on him to improve 
not poisonous," he admitted. "We his grades. We really just want him 
sneaked empty bulbs out of lab last to be happy," she stated. . week. We wanted to scare every­Huffpuff tentatively rescheduled 
one into listening to us, but we the Chicago trip for next Saturday. 
WIND radio seized; director· assassinated 
byBabaWawa Associated Services Writer and Absurd Person 
NOTRE DAME, Ind. [ASJ -In an 
unprecedented movement, Only 
Parcheesi, vice president of vice, 
admittedly assassinated the direct­
or of the student radio station, 
WIND, during his nightly news 
broadcast. Parcheesi immediately 
took control of the station and 
banned all broadcasts excepting 
himself, wrestling matches and 
classical music. 
Parcheesi reportedly single­
handedly stormed the WIND stu­
dios just at the opening of the 
evening newscast and shot station 
director I.C. Nothing. Nothing died 
shortly thereafter. 
One of Parcheesi's first move­
ments after taking over the station 
was to broadcast what he said 
v.ould be the first of many pro­
clamations. Speaking from atop the 
WIND tower, Parcheesi explained 
"I control broadcasting here be: 
cause now I not only control the 
money, but I control the building, 
too! I am WIND!" 
Parcheesi then explained his attack on the studio. "I don't want to see the student media get out of hand," he said. "This attack has been. planned for quite a while; it was just activated now because of Nothing's recent decision to begin broadcasting news and public af­fairs programs." . "I feel this type of programming ts totally unnecessary," Parcheesi continued. ·"We should stick to such exciting radio events as wrestling and Brahms. This will be the cot.tent of all our programming 
now." 

Parcheesi went on to explain that WIND's format will consist of continuous proclamations by the vice president, occasionally inter­rupted by wrestling and Brahms lullabies. He stressed that he was planning meetinJ;ls but hinted that his ideas would be used anyway. 
There has beeri some indication 
that Parcheesi actually did not 
subdue the station single-handed­
ly, but that reserves were backing 
him up. This person or persons 
remain obscure and Parcheesi 
would not acknowledge their part 
in the plot. However, a dark-color­
ed Mercedes was observed leaving 
the scene. 
When asked if he will extend his 
assassinations to other student 
media, Parcheesi said much moves 
have been planned, but their 
implementation will depend on the 

conduct of the media. 
"If the media decide to become permanent, frequent features here, that is, if they begin, for example, publishing too often, such as once a year, some action may be taken," he said. 
Student media leaders had little 
comment on the WIND takeover, 
except to note that Parcheesi 
probably would do the same to 
their publications if he wants to. 
This policy. Parcheesi explained, will not affect the Absurder, the AS , or himself, WIND. 
SMC room~­
n 

This weeks room p1cks at St. Mary's have been invalidated be­cause of a clerical error. Lottery numbers will be reassigned at an Easter Sunday sunrise service on a first come, first served basis. Those not choosing a room by noon Sunday will be given living space in the food sales areas of Pangborn, Breen-Phillips, and Alumni Halls at Notre Dame. 
This week's room picks at St. Mary's have been invalidated be­cause of a clerical error. Lottery numbers will be reassigned at an Easter Sunday sunrise service .on a first come, first served basis. Those not choosing a room by noon 
Friday, April 1, 1977 the absurder 
Amin elected Senior Fellow 
by Jimmy Olsen Cub Reporter 

Senior Class President Bob Bully 
announced yesterday, the selection 
of President Idi Amin as Senior 
Class Fellow 1977. 

Amin, President-Dictator of U­
ganda, self-proclaimed ruler of 
S~otland and all-around nice guy, 
wtll appear at Notre Dame on April 
31. He will address this year's graduates on "How to Win Friends and Influence People". as well as conduct sev·eral Assertiveness­Training Workshops. 
Amin, known to his friends as 
"Idi VeeDee", accepted the honor 
from his throne in Uganda declar­
ing "I accept." A min continued 
saying that he was delighted to 
hear that Jimmy Carter would also 
be on campus. 
''I love Jimmy Carter," Amin 
commented. "I want Jimmy Carter ·to come visit me in Uganda. He will be very warmly received." A min then ordered his servants to bring a large black kettle down from the palace attic. 
The selection of "Big Daddy" followed recently proposed guide­dines requiring nominees to (1) have done something si2nificant in 
ihis or her field and-(2) have 
~ifestyles and accomplishments 
that embody the "Notre Dame" 
spirit. Personality, interest, enthu­
siasm and personableness are all 1a part of the award. 
When questioned about Amin's 
qualifications. Bully responded, 
"They speak for themse)vcs." 
Amin responded to the same 
question saying, "I have been on 
the cover of both Time and News­
week. And Hollywood has made 
three movies about me. And I can 
drink more beer than anyone else 
alive." 
To win the senior award ~min 
had to beat out such other notables 
as Gov. Gem·ge Wallace, Farah 
Fawcett-Majors and husband, Cap­
tain Kangaroo and Sr. Therese of 
Calcutta. 
Amin will arive at Notre Dame in 
his personal Lear jet. piloted by 
several Israeli commandos. After 
landing on the South Quad. Amin 
will exchange welcoming gifts with 
Fr. Theodoar Hesburgher, Univer­
sity president. It is rumored that 
Amin will give Notre Dame a life 
size gold-leafed statue of himself, 
while Hisburgher will present A­
min with Bishop William McFan­
nue, Bishop of the Ft. W ayQeSouth 
Bend diocese. 

· 
Six students dead, more missing from cold 
by I.M. Frosin up our philodendron and a jade plant. Add a little salt and pepper 
A cold spell that paralyzed Notre and it's really quite good." Dame for two weeks lifted yester-"We ate really well the whole day, leaving six ND students dead two weeks," one fat and happy and a number of persons missing. student said. "I shouldn't tell you 
Sub-zero temperatures, violent what we had --but you may notice winds and over 75 inches of snow there aren't many ducks around closed the school for fourteen days these days." and prevented outside aid from A nose count in each of the halls reaching the campus. revealed a number of rectors 
Director of ND Food Services Iunaccounted for. Edmund Pretzel said today that the One Holy Cross student died on major difficulty was providing food the tenth day, apparently from food for 6,000 people, since no supply poisoning. The student's room­trucks were able to get through. mates claim he was able to catch a 
"We started rationing immedi-small fish in St. Mary's Lake and ately," Pretzel said, "We had Jots had it for dinner the night before. of tortillas left over from Mexican Three Cavanaugh residents and night, plus a year's supply of two Lewis residents were found chicken burgers and meat loaf. We frozen on the main quad today. The hoped we would make it," he students apparently succumbed to continued, ''but by the third day it the cold on their way to the South was obvious that we were running Dining Hall. out and would have to resort to Six other students suffering from manager's choice." malnutrition and delirium tremens 
During the hungry days that were reported in fair condition followed, many students became today at Memorial Hospital. The adept at locating and hoarding six took refuge in Senior Bar the precious food supplies. Director of first day of the cold spell and were Security Arthur Peerless said that finally rescued yesterday. Senior food machines in all campus build-Bar managers said insurance would ings had been broken into and cover the club's losses. cleared out, and that many hall University President Fr. Ted 
food sales operations had either Hesburgher told The Absurder given away food or been raided. today that steps have been taken to 
"On the sixth day of the ordeal, insure ND's self-sufficiency should we had a mass student raid on the such a crisis arise again. Huddle," Peerless said. "Our sec-"We're going to raise our own urity force was outnumbered, so we livestock,'' Hesburgher explained. dynamited the .roof of LaFortune "We'll have sheep grazing be­and bombarded the raiders with tween the Memorial Library and hunks of snow and icicles. Quite a the towers and we're converting few still managed to get in," he the fieldhouse into a barn and added, "but all they got was a henhouse. The land around Holy couple cases of yogurt and some Cross Hall can be used for hog-peach thrill ice cream." raising," he said. 
Many students said they began "And if negotiations work out," to make salads from their house-flesburgher beamed, "we'll be the plants on the seventh and eighth mly University in the U.S. with its days of isolation. "We'd finished own herd of buffalo. We're fortu­off the popcorn and crackers," one nate enough to have a natural student reported, "so we chopped wallow outside of O'Shaughnes­
sy." The University is also consider­ks cancelled ing a proposal Jor growing crops in the stadium, h~ said.
Sunday will be given living space in Hesburgher added that the U.
the food sales areas of Pangborn, 
Breen-Phillips, and Alumni Halls Diversity is ·prepared td deal wi""-. future energy shortage. "All build­
at Notre Dame. 
ings except the dining halls will be

This week's room1 picks at St. 
dosed. Students will eat and sleepMary's have been invalidated be­in the same building," he explain­cause of a clerical error. Lottery ed. "We will issue blankets andnumbers will be reassigned at an pillows to everyone, and, to cutEaster Sunday sunrise se~ce on a down on heating energy, we willfirst come,-first served basis. 

aqtlt(\,.;ze bundliqn " Those not choosing a room by noon 

hesburgher satd he reP*M Ilia

Iunday will be given living space in forced absence from campus· ca.­
;he food sales areas of Pangborn, ing the two-week trial. His .._..
Breen-Phillips, and Alumni Halls flight from Washi~gton, D.C.,..
at Notre Dame. 
re-routed to Ft. Lauderdale,. flit

This week's room picks at St. 
until conditions cleared. 


10 the absurder 
--··-· 

miserable meals in michiana 
tasty terry 

As the kegs run dry, the jukebox turns off and the pool games grind to a halt, the lone survivors of the evening's festivities call it a night. Picking themselves up off the floor, stool. table or wherever they may have dozed off. they begin their long journey home to campus. For those people who are unable to find the door, the amiable but burly bouncers will bodily escort them out. Staggering uncertainly back home from those exciting local nightclubs (i.e., the South Bend bars), many a soused student has come across a quaint, off the beat and track all-nite diner, ""The Black House Cafe," commonly known as "Wide Wanda's," overlooking the lovely landscape of the South Bend Sewage Plant. 
At first glance, this restaurant may appear somewhat dilapidated and disap­pointing. One step inside the door will indubitably confirm this opinion. Wide Wanda's is revoltingly decorated in early American gas station restroom fashion. For those couples interested in enjoying a late night tete-a-tete over a hot cup of c·offee and a bite to eat to satisfy those midnight munchies, forget it -you are definitely at the wrong place. For anyone interested in finding a fairly warm place to crash before heading home, Wide Wanda's offers several cramped booths with unique three-legged chairs, situated along one wall. If you can balance the chairs, avoid the falling plaster from the ceilings and still eat all at once, have a seat. 
To capture the real essence of the diner, I recommend you ask to be seated at the counter. From this vantage point, you can observe the master chefs at work, creating the culinary delights which have made Wanda's a truly unforgettable and definite ly regrettable experience. More interest­ing tr observe than the preparatio_!l of the food are the chefs themselves. To say that Wanda and her daughter stand out is an understatement of obese proportions. H you like WQmen with the physique of a 
fl;a~etdub;~;p~if~~i~~~~~~tf:{~:;, 
•

B-Ball tickets raised to $99, 30-game home season in' 80-81 
ACC Ticket Manager Mike Mus-· come through," he hummed. In · 
ic announced that tickets for the fact, 3,000 hollering Notre Dame 
1980-81 Notre Dame basketball students were at NCAA Headquar­
season will go on sale next week. ters when the decision was made to Music stated that the price of the allow Notre Dame to play all its tickets will be $99 for the 30-game games at home. I schedule. ··we decided to play Music defended the early sell­all games at home starting in 1980 ing. though, saying that they want since we can depend on the crowd to make the tickets "available to all to help out when the team can't students." 
jacques low=:====================================================================================~=================================== 
Non-Happenings 
================================================================:================================================================:·/ow blows 
There ain't been much happening on the ND sports scene recently but I figure it's possible to BS my way through another column in which I can insult at least a few members of the ND-SMC community. 
Head football coach Hank Heavenly recently announced the successful recruitment of several top prospects. The best of them is quarterback Myron Hagle. Hagle is a 7 foot, 137 pound pure passer who played high school ball at Cincinnati's Molar High. Yes, that's the high school that sent Steve Fathouse, Hairy Webkongburger and Brief Case to ND Hagle is the first slim player to come out of that school. Asked it he thought Hagle could start as a freshman, coa..:h Heavenly said, "Right now all of our plays are for short quarterbacks, since Dick Slayer was our quarterback last fall. If we're able to change our plays to suit a tall quarterback, he could play some. But the fact that he'll actually be able to see over the center's butt on the snap could prove to be a problem. 
When asked why someone of semetic origin would come to ND, Sagle said, "Everyone knows that only the image of this place is Catholic. With the penny-pinching, cheapskate mentality of the administration, I'm sure I'll feel right at home." 
Other top recruits were Terry Seamore and Nick Conjure, both hybrids of f?rmer ND players, Bruno Dorko, an eight-foot Sumo wrestler whom Heavenly wants at DT's, and Billy "Hurricane" Carter, a running back from Georgia. Heavenly called him "a real fighter." 
When asked why he took so long to announce the signing of these players, Heavenly stated, "We had to teach them to spell their names, so they would get at least a combined score of 200 on the SAT's. That way we'll have no trouble being accepted here. Besides, we don't want to accept just any jock to play here, 
The End· ~ 

Wide Wanda's 
two. It is rumored that one man tried to skip out without paying his bill, until Wanda a~d her daughter stopped him. He now resembles a flattened pancake. 
One glance at the menu, though limited in selection, and catering to an elite group of drunks, illiterate truck drivers and off-duty cops, will reconfirm all suspicions of the truly gross nature of the diner. With few exceptions, all categories are examples of cooking with grease, ranging in price from $.65 to $3.01. 
--' To begin the meal, my special guest gourmet, Arnold, Farmer Brown's number one pig, and I gulped down a glass of freshly-squeezed rust water, or better known as Wanda's homemade version of orange juice. 
"You never Know wnat s going to happen," he said. "Branning might decide to go pro early and maybe even Hanzlik. Or the ACC might cave in, or even Digger will get assassinated for arguing with the refs too much. If we sell the tickets now, we'll get the money we want, and at Notre Dame that's the real name of the game." 
Some students have expressed dissatisfaction over the 200 percent increase of ticket prices. But Music said, "Look at it like this. A lot of students get scalped trying to get tickets to games like UCLA. Mary­land, USF, and Indiana. So al-i though the price is high, we are at least ensuring that the student can get a ticket, so we're just charging accordingly for this service.'' 
"Also," Music continued, "the students should support the pro­gram more financially." 
Most team members responded favorably to the price increase of tickets. Said Dave Kooz-cuz, "Digger hardly ever lets me get into the game. So by scalping other students and people for tickets, it's just like starting your own business now that the value of tickets have gone up. I'll make a fortune. And most importantly, it will give men,
something to do for a change." 
Jiff Hammerhead expressed sim­ilar feelings about the price in­crease, and added, "Now with the money I'll be making selling tic; kets, I can afford to go to the Dr. J. Basketball Camp this summer." 
Tickets will go on sale Tuesday, April 1:, at 12 midnight. No lines will be permitted, according to . Music. And only one ticket can be given to each student. Checks for tickets can be made payable to your favorite Notre Dame basketball· team member. 
The meal got progressively worse. We moved on to our appetizer, a lumpy, cold bowl of oatmeal, spiced with the distinct tlavor of coakroach legs ($.63). My guest, Arnold, having a stronger stomach than I, managed to swallow the dish with relative ease. One spoonful of the mess sent me running for the bathroom, only to discover it is nothing more than a clump of bushes behind the kitchen. Faced with such rustic accommodations, I took a deep breath and reentered, ready to struggle through the main course. I did not see how it could possibly get any worse. How wrong I was! 
Confronted with the painstaking, mon­umental task of choosing between the trucker's special and the burger plate, I 
selected the former while my 
Odds aND Ends 
by Joe Sniff 

Not a heck of a lot has been happening on the ND sports scene 
recently and what has isn't interesting enough to devote an entire 
slanted, praiseworthy type of article. Therefore, we'll take a look at the 
whole ND sports scene. 

Goose Smith, 'noted ND gunner, is known for his rather flat 
trafectory shot. Goose claims he's too lazy to add an arch and is looking ·for a wa~ to ge! credit for shooting the ball up through the hoop. Must be a phstcs maJor.---Toby Pope, the team's leading dieter, claims he used to weigh 270 pounds, but lost it all because it would be more of a challenge to play skinny. Pope also said the skinny frame allows him to 
get through more openings in the lane. 
Bill "The Cherry" Taperno has signed a multi-year contract with 
Vitalis Hairdressers on the merit of his nippy hair staying perfectly in 
place through four seasons of varsity ball. "My hair has the abi_lity to 
fake left, deke right and stay right in the middle, whether it's in the 
bars or even on the court," Taperno commented. 
Speaking of logic, Richard "Excavator" Philps revealed his 
recruiting strategy. "We've got to find players to counterbalance other 
teams' strategies. I've got a 9.1 sprinter to go against Las Vegas, a 
judge to indict the refs who worked the_North Carolina game and god to 
play against UCLA," he revealed. Philps is rumored to have been 
trying to get AI McGuire to take over coaching in the playoffs. 
Coach Dean Damned announced he had signed the as-of-yet-notborn sons ofthe three Greyer brothers. "We feel it is a sound investment," remarked Damned. Defensive back Martin Bradalee claims he is not that mean. "If wide receivers didn't try to grab my hand before the game and mumble something about luck, I wouldn't bite or maul them,'' he said. In order to relieve the quarterback situation, Damned announced he would enter a bidding war with the Los Angeles Rams for the services of Joe Namath. The offensive and defensive lines announced they would the littering problem around the bars by setting up training table in Nickies. "There would be one less bar to go to," remarked one. So much for pretzel logic. 
The entire schedule of the Irish baseball, track, golf and tennis teams was cancelled because a late snow storm dumped 52 inches of snow on sunny South Bend. Athletic mis-Director Deer Crouse regretted the snow but said the saved money could to into constructive things like football and basketball. Fencing coach Michaelangelo Dekekkio stabbed himself accidently in a fit of anger when his daughter congratulated him for winning the fence-hopping national champion­ship. Hickey Coach Righty Williams has enrolled the entire team in Math 101 following their play-off against Minnesota. Lacrosse players are perlexed about why no one goes to the games. Says one, "God, it's North American, fast, exciting, and most of all, violent. Any domer can. relate to the last reason." In the same vein, the women's tennis team announced it will pay people to watch their upcoming match against Indian Subdivision College of Technical Science at Wabash. Couldn't figure why. In the last news ofthe day, Frs. Teddy Hes' ;rhger, Jimmy Burtchaellis, Eddie Joyce, Jimmy Wisosnis, and Elk vlulcahee said they would enter a team in An Tostal Basketball named ,he Holy colleague and cohort cmsme the latter ($1.25). The ·trucker's special includes two pieces dehydrated, stone-cold t~ast, charcoal black for color (rotten jelly gtven free of charge), runny scrambled eggs and grease-burnt potatoes. While 
1 tried to quell overwhelming waves of nausea brought on by the obnoxious odors of the food, or perhaps Wanda, Arnold happily snarled down his burger plate, complete with chili and horseradish sauce, compressed between two moldy slices of onion-garlic roll. · 
''Truly a delectable delight to satisfY the pall ate of any self-respecting sow," grunt­ed. Arnold. "Especially appealing are the umque blend of sauces and spices, which can only be appreciated by someone with 
my extensive knowledge of finer foods," 
Arnold extolled. I must admit I am 
seriously in doubt of my companion's 
mental state, as well as his taste buds. 

For anyone who has managed to survive 
the main course, Wide Wanda's offers 
absolutely no choice for dessert. My friend 
Arnold, desiring a sweet treat' to round off 
his meal. chomped on a stale chocolate 
ant-covered donut ($.20) whose imitation­
style ants greatly resembled in taste irod 
appearance, real live ones. I decided to 
bypass this dessert, choosing instea' to 
chew upon to tablets of Pepto-Bisrr.ol. \ 

_Arnold, as I suspected, was oblivious tv thts fact and snorted his approval of the donut. "It's almost as good as the donuts Farmer Brown gets from the North Dining Hall," Arnold remarked. 
I have always believed that one should experience everything at least once in life. Anyone who has experienced and survived a n:teal a! Wide Wanda's can survive any maJor dtsaster. For anyone who is intrigued enough to venture into this veritable jungle of nausea, I highly recommend you bring along a first-aid kit of Pepto-Bismol, Atka-Seltzer, Di-Gel and Kaopectate. Better yet, enter only after consuming a lethal amount of alcohol. Perhaps you will pass out before the meal arrives at your table. 
DeCheeko would go nuts trying to keep them in." In an unrelated story I. "Dugher' Phillips announced that Pill Lamedeer would be returning to ND to play for the hoops team next The Absurder ends hereiRo~lers. Hesburgher said he _would enter the Dr. J com~e.,.. I'm not' year. Lamedeer had a 3.9 GPA at Anchorage Tech this year. His 
·We thlnkl. qutte sure what a sla11;1 dunk ts, but I'm sure I can meet the challengeand perform admirably," he said. 
father is the owner of the two room school. 
!~~jj;Y/JI/.h.Y.l{#jj.'l,; '.-~1.'~-!'.:1'//.h'i.s" n;r~~Y//~J'Q/M?'IU.f/./b. 
__j 

Friday, April 1, 1977 the observer 1 1 
In SALT talks 
Gromyko sites US inconsistency, unfairness 

MOSCOW [AP] -Soviet Foreign Minister Andrei A. Gromyko said yesterday that the Kremlin had 1turned down American nuclear weapons limits because they were unfair and inconsistent. 
Gromyko, in a televised news conference watched by millions of Soviets, said Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance's contention that the Russians had rejected a broad arms control proposal was ''basic­ally false" and he mentioned numbers and details which Vance had not publicly discussed. 
Carter Administration criticism of human rights issues in the Soviet Union had no direct effect on the rejection of the proposals made by Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance in Moscow this week, Gromyko said. 
But rising to his feet for em­phasis, the veteran Soviet minister said "the fact is that everything 
Carter may lose rebate fight 
WASHINGTON [AP] • Sen. Russell B. Long, who will lead the floor fight for Senate passage of President Carter's tax rebate plan, said yesterday that the rebate will be defeated unless Carter dumps additional support for it. 
"If the vote were taken today, the rebate would lose," Long, a Louisiana Democrat said in an interview. 
In addition, Long predicted that , Carter wlluld veto any economic 1 stimulus bill that substituted a permanent tax cut for the $50 rebate he proposed as a means of giving a quick boost to the econo­my. Carter's proposals already call for a tax · cut in addition to the rebate. 
The 38 Republicans are united in opposition to the rebate and there is little enthusiasm among the Democratic majority for the plan. 
Long and other senators have said they think Carter also hurt his cause by initiating a review of federally funded water projects, a move that drew angry protests from many members of the Con­gress. 
However, most Democrats plan to support the rebate cut out of reluctance to. embarrass Carter so early in his term. 
The Senate is scheduled to begin consideration of the tax bill on April 18, the day it returns from a ten day Easter recess. Originally, the Senate Democratic leadership had hoped to complete action on the measure before the recess. 
The House has already passed the bill. An attempt to strip the rebate from trhe measure was defeated 219 to 194. But 54 DemQCt"ats joined 140 Republicans in opposition to the rebate. Only 
Break out of your shell and get a haircut for Easter! 
Get your hair done eggzactly the' . way you like it at the Windjammer. H not, the yolk is on you. 
1637 gt-w I -~~ 
LW,::,~:.~ . ne· inJ ammer . 
------..:... -~-· -~....._.._.__ ......._·--------------.·------------------.--~~~..AS 
said about rights by the United States .. worsen~ the atmosphere for discussion of other issues including arms limitations." 
Vance, making European stops on the way home from his fruitless efforts to get an arms control agreement i.il Moscow, said in Bonn that his proposals had been a "very fair package." Vance went on to London and was to brief British and French leaders in Paris on Saturday. 
Gromyko countered that "the version widely circulated in the West these days, alleging that the 
U.S. representative proposed a broad disarmament progaram while the Soviet leadership failed to accept this program, is basically false." 
"Nobody proposed such a pro­gram to us," the 67-year-old Gromyko told foreign correspond­ents he had summoned to the news 
one Republican voted for it. who supported the rebate in com­
. When the tax bill was debated in mittee, Sens. Floyd Haskell of the Senate Finance Committee, Colorado and Lloyd Bensten of which Long chairs, the vote for the Texas, said they might vote againstrebate followed party lines with all it on the Senate floor. the Democrats voting for it and the Long conceded he is not enthusi­Republican minority solidly against astic about the rebate. The senator 
it. The one independent, Sen. once likened the propos~d tax Harry F. Byrd of Virginia, opposed refund to ''throwing$50 bills off the it. top of the Washington Monument However, two of the Democrats and hoping it does some good." 
Economist predicts increase in housing costs 
WASHINGTON, [AP] • It will cost you about $90,000 to buy a medium-priced new home by 1986, twice as much as present prices, an economist told Congress yesterday. 
Economist Kenneth Rosen of Princeton University made the prediction, saying the country is in "a housing crisis of unprecedented proportions'' that will get worse during the next decade. 
Because of high monthly pay­ments on mortgages and increasing down payment requirements, "nearly two-thirds of all American families could not afford to pur­chase the home where they now live," he said. 
"Most new entrants to the housing market young families and other first-time home-buyers can­not afford to purchase any home at all," Rosen said. 
"By 1986 the median-priced new home will sell for close to $90,000 
with the average down payment tions and real estate dealers. 
required aver,aging close 
to r .......t 
$23,000," Rosen told the Senate · Banking Committee. SHAKESPEARE'S He said the current medium • ALIVE & WELL& • ·price. is aro~nd $45,000 per year LIVING IN • and mcreasmg by more than 10 AM ERICA
t 
percent annually. · •••••••••
Rosen testified in favor of a bill ~-~~ · 

confere11c~. , missile was a departure from what _ Va~ce left Moscow ~n Thursday I IJt:esident Gerald R. Ford ha_d in mormng after announcmg the Sov-l mmd when he made the Vladtvos­
iet Union had rejected both a limited American proposal and a "comprehensive" plan for deep cuts in both countries' nuclear · arsenals. 
Vance's limited proposal· was essentially a call to ratify a 1974 Vladivostok pact which called for both sides to keep to 2,400 nuclear land-based missiles, strategic bombers and missiles on submar­ines. but if left out the potent new American cruise missile, which was developed after Vladivostok, and the new Soviet Backfire bomber. 
Gromyko insisted that the cruise missile be counted as a strategic weapon while the Backfire be considered "not strategic." 
American defense experts differ on the Backfire's strategic poten­tial, b~~:t Gromyko said the Amer­ican refusal to include the cruise 
by Sen. Edward Brooks, R.-Mass., designed to make the purchase of an initial home easier for young families. 
Brook's bill would provide for comparatively low payments in the early years of a mortgage. The bill assumes that family income will rise, making possible higher pay­ments in the later years of a mortgage. 
The Brooks bill also would allow tax-exempt savings accumlate up to $10,000 for down payments. 
Rosen said the present system of level payments throughout the life of a mortgage "is not well adapted to an inflationary environment." 
Without change in mortgage requirements, ''the American dream of universal home owner­ship is virtually dead," he said. 
Brooke's bill also was endorsed by industry groups representing banks, savings and loan associa­tok agreements. 
"One cannot talk about stability when a new leadership arrives and crosses out all that has been achieved before," Gromyko said. "We would like to see our relations more stable and we would like them to be founded on the prin­ciples of peaceful coexistence, and even better -that they should be friendly." 
The news conference at a luxur­ious government guest house was believed to be the first time that Gromyko had addressed foreign reporters here. 
Gromyko, who is to meet with Vance again in May, said the Americans had called for a max­imum of 1,800 to 2,000 nuclear delivery vehicles on each side. Some 1,100 to 1,200 of these could be equipped with multiple war­heads. 
He said the Americans wanted the Soviets to "liquidate" certain rockets that the Soviets_ apparently 
happy hour 

dodo cocktail -_$.5 
beers-$.30 horseshoes. 
I 

volleyballand music 
april fools party 
Friday nite gin & tonics seven & sevens $.40 ~SATURDAY NIGHT 9-l «EJECTION NIGHT SPECIAL . DIME BEER WITH EVERY REJECTION LETTER (limit 10) show us a CJF ticket, get a $.25 drink where? Oh, we fort?;ot to say••.•..•_ ... senior bar, silly. 

~~tli\B 

7

···-))) ~··· 
LIBRARY. CARRY -OUT SPECIALS our choice of R~ 
G. Whisk i $3.89/fifth
Vodka, m, ey 
Cold l2pk 
Drummond Bros. BEER 
Reg. 
$3.89 

Now 
$2.69 

Remember $1.00 Pitchers 
every Mon. & Tues. 
This past W ed.nesday we had a comic strip in the paper. The way we do a strip is that we write the copy and then give it to a cartoonist. 'lbe cartoonist oi that strip, who has been fired, decided to change most of the copy. We apologize to the girls of Regina Hall, what we had as a funny line in the copy, was changed to a crude )>ke at best. Once again we are SOITY. 
consider their most powerful. 
"They just didn't like them and that was all," Gromyko said. ''Sometimes they said 'they were 'too heavy.' Sometimes they said they were 'too efficient" -if a weapon can be spoken of in· that way." · 
Gromyko complained the Amer­icans had not backed a previous Russian proposal for a ban on developing new weapons of mass destruction, but had then included the same proposal in the U.S. plan. 
This, he said, had made a "v.ery doubtful impression" on the Sov-. iets. 
Thumping a table Gromyko said, "Let's discuss the subject honest­ly. Is the U.S.A. ready to sign a treaty or not? 
"Don't believe that some critical comments directed at the United States reduce our desire to any extent to make agreements be­tween the U.S.A. and the Soviet Union. 
"We are ready to discuss these questions," Gromyko said. "We have patience." . · 
'' 
' 
-~----­

12 the observer Friday, Aprill, 1977 

Student protest, fire close colleg·e 
HOLLY SPRINGS, Miss. (AP] ­in a throwback to the turbulence of the 1960's. a fire during a student protest caused a shutdown of a small liberal arts college here yesterday. 
Rust College officials ordered all 842 students to leave the campus by nightfall, following the fire which caused $500,000 damage to the administration building. 
A steady stream of cars left the rural campus of thcprcdominantly black college throughout the day, as students complied with the order for what officials said would be a "cooling-off period" of at least two weeks. 

About SO Mississippi Highway 
patrol officers  were  called  in  to  
assist city police in  keeping  the  
peace.  

About 200 students had gathered shortly after midnight to air grie­vances over the handling of student aid programs, conditions in the dormitories and what they felt was a lack of communication with administrators -particularly Presi­dent W.A. McMillan. 
Student spokesmen said the disagreement with McMillan had been building for several months and prompted a three day boycott 
of classes in December.  They said  
many  students  were  especially  
upset because trustees  had voted  

Wednesday to renew McMillan's contract. McMillan, 57, who has held the post for 10 years, declined to 
SU appointment draws fire 
icontinued from page I] 
SU Associate Director Walt Ling; 
Dircdor of Student Activities Bro.' 
John Benesh and HPC Executive 
Co-ordinator Keefe Montgomery. 
Montgomery was sitting in for HPC 
Chairman .I. P. Russell who. until 
Wednesday evening. was running 
filr SU Dircdor himself. 
The Board met Sun .. Mar 27 and 
decided unanimously that six votes 
would be needed to choose a 
dircdor. It narrowed the ticld of 
L·andidatcs to Gryp. Rooney and 
Russell but was unable to break a 
deadlock between these three. The 
Board met again Wednesday night 
and learned of Russell's withdraw­
al. After lengthy discussions and 
sev<'ral secret ballots which split 
..S-4. Gryp was elected on a 6-3 vote. 
Russell stated in a letter to the 
Board t.hat he did not think he could 
give the directorship a "100 pecent 
effort." He said yesterday that he 
may run for reelection as HPC 
chairman. 
The student body consititution 
requires that the Appointment 
Board's decision be approved by 
the incoming Student Government 
Board of Commissioners. That 
body is composed of the SBP. 
SBVP. the Student Body Treasurer. 
the HPC chairman and the three 
SLC representatives. 
Several dissatisfied SU workers arc considering asking the Com­missioners to reject the decision. There is some question as to when the "incoming" commissioners could meet to review the decision since the new HPC chairman will not be chosen until April 12 and since the current SLC apparently decides when new members take offit·e. (The change-over has sometimes been delayed until May). There are no constitutional, limits on the reasons why the Commissioners may reject a direc-· tor. 
Despite arguments about this year's SU director selection. most particip:tnts in the dispute agreed that the selection process should probably be changed. Bender suggested that. "in the future the selection should be made either completely by Student Union people or completely by some outsider." 
Ricci suggested that the outgo­ing SU Commissioners might choose the ne\\· director. The present appointments board is only one vear old. Before it was cre:lted. the new SBP selected the director subject to the approval of 
SMC open house set for May 1 
The public is invite~ to an open 
house at St. Marv's on Mav I 
During the dav ail facilities ~ill be 
open for publi~· viewing. 
In the afternoon the Senior class · ,,.;11 present to Dr. Duggan a 
~ th;lt will be placed in the 
new athletic facility upon its dedi· 
·xt September. The pre· scntatilin will be in Stapleton Loungt•. but ~time will be announced at a Ia r date. 
. Ending the May ! open hot1se will be an all campus picnic at dinner hours on the grounds out­side of the SMC cafeteria. Co­P'f•'l-o'lnge tickets for th· r-icnic will· 
Jilr ble at Notrt _.&me 1· ·· · ceeding the picnic. 

the Student Government Commis­playing politics with the supposed­sioners. ly non-political directorship. Mont­gomery, criticizing Bender and
The present dispute over Gryp 
Gassman's group, said, "I realize
occurs in the context of a year-long 
everyone was sincere but I'm
series of disagreements between 
appalled at seeing this bloc voting
SBP Mike Gassman and SU Direc­
and very upset at the way politics'
tor Ken Ricci over how .indepen­
are conducted on this campus."
dent the Union should be. Sources in both organizations have said 
Ling, who supported Gryp com­
Gassman and Ricci feuded for 
mented, "Some people are saying
much of the year and see the 
that Ricci voted against Gryp for
argument over the SU directorship 
political reasons: because he was
as a continuation of that tight. 
Gassman and Bender's choice." Representatives of $::ach side Ricci now says he will cooperate claimed that the other side was with Gryp. the Board's choice. 
discuss problems which led to the 
~nrest. He said of the fire and 
school closing, "I'm sorry this had 
to happen." 

The protest turned violent when 
some of the demonstrators set fires 
in trash cans around the adminis­
tration building and burned two 
mattresses outside the library. 
The students then marched to McMillan's home chanting "Fire it up.'' Told he was not home, the marchers gathered on the ground floor of the 110 year old brick administration building. 
One. of the protestors, Wayne Robinson, president of the junior class, said most students first knew about the fire when observers outside saw dark smoke and flames coming from the top of the three-
I 
story building. 

Mayor Sam Coopwood of Holly 
Springs said fireman found five 
cans of gasoline and. a plastic bag 
containing gasoline soaked rags in 
the building. 

"There is no doubt that it was arson," he said. 
Student body vice president Charles Dawkins was arrested for investigation of disorderly conduct and attempting to incite a riot, but administrators later dropped .:harges on condition he return to his howe in Chicago. Officials said no more arrests were planned. 
Unlike many of the nation's campuses, Rust College, supported by the United Methodist Church, did . not see any violent antiwar protests during the late 1960's. 

NOTRE DAME 1977 JAZZ FESTIVAL 
Aprillst and 2nd ALL EVENTS HELD AT STEPAN CENTER, UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
r---------------------------------------------~I I 
I Ap:rill, Friday Night 7:30 Admission $5.50 I ' I 
I I 
7:30 Notre Dame Big Band
I I 
I 8:00 Ohio State Combo I I 8:30 Texas Southern Jazz Ensemble I I 9:00 Fredonia Combo I 
I I
9:30 Northwestern Big Band
I I 
r-------------~-------------------------------~ 
: April2, Saturday Afternoon 12:30 Admission $2.50 : 
I I I 12 :30 Northern Iowa Jazz Ensemble I
1

~ 1:00 Jeff Pellaton Combo-Eastern Illinois 
: ~~~~ ~fi::n~~s ~~~~~~~~e~;;~f~~a ~ 
1 2:30 East. Illinois Big Band
r---------------------------------------------11 
April2, Saturday Night 7:00 Admission $4.00 
7:00 Two High School Festival Winners 
8:00 Fredonia Big Band 
8:30 Notre Dame Combo 
9 
:00 MIT Festival Big Band 

9 
:30 Shearer-Boris Guitar Duet 


10:00 W ismnsin Conservatory Jazz Combo 
10:30 Medium Rare Big Band New England Conservatory 
11 :00 Guest Performance: Eastman School of Music Jazz Combo 
L---------------~~--------~~------------------­
Followed by Award Ceremony and Award
ALL SESSION PASS: 
Winner's Jam 
$8.00 General Public $7.00 ND/SMC Community 
JUDGES: 

BOB JAMES 
RANDY BRECKER MIKE BRECKER BOB MOSES DAVE SANBORN WILL LEE 
~---·-----------.......---..----~-----------------------~---------­

Major General Gerald J. Post, Chief of Staff for Air Force Logis­tics Command, will be the guest speaker at a University of Notre Dame Air Force ROTC Dining-Out tonight. 
A formal dinner for military members and their spouses, the Dining-Out is sponsored by the local AFROTC Detachment's Ar­nold Air Societv. 
General Post is a combat veteran of the Korean War and has served in numerous operating commands, including a top management po­sition with the Office of the Comptroller, Headquarters United States Air Force. A Master Navigator, his military decorations and awards include the Legion of Merit, Distinguished Flying Cross, 
Meritous Service Medal, and the Air Medal with two oak leaf clusters. 
Friday, April 1, 1977 _____...:t.:ch::..::e::.....:o::.:b=-s::...e~r_v_e_r_·__1_3 
A &L job placement slim . 
[continued from pqe 31 One senior in arts and letters some companies such as insurance , who has interviewed through the companies, retailing firms. some : Bureau this year said competition ba~ks, and one or two of the larger J was great in just getting an companies such as Proctor and /' interview. "Sometimes I think, 'Is Gamble will interview arts and it worth the rat-race?' There's letters students, "but not very I competition ·just to get the first 
many of them" will. 
"The bulk ofthe arts and letters people suffer immediately-aftel' graduation," he continued. Wil­lemin said more students in arts and letters should go to graduate school or "they may be faced with taking a job that will be lower than the one they set their sights on." 
*
Observer Insight 
According to figures compiled by the Placement Bureau, only 38 arts and letters students who interview­ed through the Bureau last year received off'ersthrough these inter­views. Sixty-two engineering stu­dents received job offers, 14 science students, and 158 business 
admin~udents. 
Willemin noted that business administration students do not have much difficulty getting jobs, and there are only •·•a few" engineering students who are not successful in securing employ­ment. 
According -nr the same set of statistics from the Placement Bureau, the average salary offered 
interview." 
1 She added that she thought the · early-morning lines for sign-ups was a disadvantage to the employ­er. "They're not really getting the quality people; they're getting the early-birds." she said. But she added that interviews are "the best way to get further." 
However, a senior engineering student said she has never been closed out of an interview that she wanted on Monday morning. 

in these jobs for arts and letters , students was approximately $11,058, while that for business administration was approximately $12,163. For engineering students, it was approximately $13,939 and $11,591 for science students. (Median figures were not available from the Bureau.) 
This year, there are 154 arts and letters students rgistered at the Placement Bureau, 371 business administration students, 151 engi­neering students, and 51 science students. Willemin said he expects this year to be better than last year, at least in terms of the number of companies interviewing at the Bureau. 
Sociology convention starts today 
Topics such as premarital sexual behavior and drinking patterns on campus are among the papers that will be presented at the second annual Notre Dame sociology con­vention to be held today and Saturday in the LaFortune student center. 
This convention will hear 38 papers of a wide variety presented by graduates and undergraduates from 28 Midwestern colleges and 1 universities. It is sponsored by the Notre Dame sociology club and , Alpha Kappa Delta, the sociology 1 honor society. 
Mark Frieden, sociology club treasurer, stated that this is the only sociology convet.don of its kind in the Midwest, entirely run by students. Students of all majors are invited to attend the convention which will consist of one session this afternoon and sessions tomor­row morning and afternoon. Each session will be divided into three different topic sections, meeting in different rooms of LaFortune. 
At a meeting in the ballroom Saturday at 11 a.m., Dr. Hans Mauksch; executive officer of the American Sociological Association, will spe'ak on the topic "Sociology: Discipline of Profession?" Mauksch's talk will be followed by a buffet luncheon in the ballroom open to all participants. 
Frieden added that there will be a cocktaft party for all faculty and students in theBlue Gold Room of the Morris Inn tonight from 7 to 9, ft!aturing a cash bar. Twenty-one IDs will be required. 
Registration for the convention 
Parking guidelines formed by SMC Security office 
by Marfbeth Moran 

In an effort to clear up parking difficulties at SMC, St. Mary's Security has drawn up a list of parking guidelines to be effective for the remaining siX weeks of the school year. 
St. Mary's students are allowed to parkin the LeMans lot any time except Monday through Thursday, 7 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Friday, 7 a.m. to 11 p.m.: Saturday, noon to mid­night; and Sunday, noon to 6 p.m. During these times students are asked to park their cars in the McCandless parking lot on the far side of the campus. 
A new system of penalties went into effect March 21 for violation of 
stdes a monetary fine, students will 
be assessed a number of points 
equal to the fine. 
If a student accumulates more 
than 30 points or siX tickets she will 
be placed on probation. After being 
placed on probation, any other 
parking or traffic voilation will 
result in suspension of parking 
privileges for the rest of the 
semester. 
When a student wants to park outside a hall, she must stop at Securtiy to obtain a 15 minute pass. Any parking time over this will · result in a $5 fine and a 5 point 
penalty. 
The complete list of SMC's 
traffic rules and regulations will be 
published in a revised traffic 
will be from 1 to 3 this afternoon in the first floor foyer of Laforthun, the first session beginning at 3:30 
p.m. Registration continues Satur­day morning at 8:30. The two Saturday sessions will begin at 9 a.m. and 1:15 p.m. 
Freshman formal set for Apr. 16 
The freshman formal will be held tomorrow in the ACC Concourse Room from 9 p.m. to 1 a.m. 
Tickets are $6 per couple and can be purchased from a Freshman Advisory Council hall representa­tive. The music for the formal will be provided by "Masquerade." 
· Refreshments are included in the ticket cost. For more information, contact a hall representative or call Barb (7414), Julie (8130), Art (1791), Holly (4-5282), or Rose (4-4801). The formal is sponsored by the Notre Dame-St. Mary's Freshman Student Government. 
Billiards semis on Sunday 
The semi-finals of the 1977 Billards Tournament will be played Sunday at 7 p.m. Mike Wetter­mark, a senior from Mobile AI., will play Steve Heimkreiter, a sophomore from Cincinnate Oh. 
The winner of the-semi-finals will play Tom VanEck, a junior busi­ness major. The finals will be held ; : on Wednesday, April 6, at 7:30 p.m. 
All matches, held in the pool-_ , 
. . . room below the Huddle, are open i hm1t 1 coupon per p1zzo 
are for arts and letters." she noted. One senior. a science major. said she has had experiences with interviews at the Placement Bureau 
where the firms had no intention of hiring "normal college people." They would only hire someone if a 
"really exceptional" person came along. she said. 
The Placement Bureau docs not 
"recruit" companies to interview through the office. Rather. the companies that wish to interview through the Bureau make arangc­ments with Willcmin. Willcmin noted the Bureau is still adding companies for the rest of this semester, and that this semester is. ·at present. 18 io 20 percent better than this time last year in the 
----COUPON ·---­
$.50 off 
any 
10 inch Pizza 
713 E. Jefferson 
limit l coupon pizZG 

tt~~~~~~,~~~~~.;~~ffi~:.;:~~~~·. ~~...:...~~~~.~~~,.:~,-.~,.~,,~3<".~"'-~~u-..-~,~~...~~~':1~ ~~-"-~:·uo.-.-...z-.-..,..~'..,·...·,..•..-..:••_:.<·~·,.,-·."."...,..·.•;.c,•.__•,.·•..,·.·~-~·-..·-..,.,--...~..-.....,.•._"",..____,._...._.,;.,...,;____;~ 
~---~---------------~~~-~­
Criminal justice seminar slated for Apr. 13-May 11 

A five-session criminal justice seminar will be held on Wed. evenings from April 13 to May 11. The programs will take place in the council chambers on the 4th floor of the County-City Building, from 
7:30 to 10 pm. 
The St. Joseph County AFL-CIO Council, St. 'oseph County UAW­CAP Council, Junior League of South Bend, Inc., the Labor Partic­ipation Committee of United Way of St. Joseph County and the United Religious Community of St. Joseph County will sponsor the seminar. 
Registration fee i~ $15.00 per person or $2.50 for students and senior citizens. The seminar will be open to the general public. Interested persons should contact Howard W. Snyder, labor associate of United Way of St, Joseph County at 232-8201. 
The seminar sponsors stated, "Essential to the success of the criminal justice system are the on-going education of the public in crime prevention, informed citizen input into the system itself and volunteer activities that reach into areas the system can't. Those areas are at all levels of the criminal justice system: the -police, the courts, corrections, juvenile delinquency, community-based re­habilitation programs and victim assistance. Only an educated public can prevent crime, rehabili­tate its criminals and give care and concern to the victims of crime.'' 
S11vder, a coordinator of the semi'lar, ar\ded, "In recognition of such citiz•:n potential, the 1977 Criminal Justice Seminar will con­centrate on citizen action through volunteer associations. It is hoped­that the knowledge of such groups and their work with victims, perpe­trators., and the legislative at­tempts at the system's reform and effectiveness will not only minimize the failures but also make justice, a viable commodity." 
Topics for the five seminar programs are as follows: April 13, "Juveniles"; April 20, "Vice"; April27, "Victims"; May 4, "Cor­rections"; and May 11 "Citizen Action''. 
[continued from page 3] are "caught in transition. There is a problem with the male ego," Moore commented. "The men 
can't accept emotionally what they expect rationally." Moore conclud­ed that although men are able to cope with women in a professional situation, they seem to have trou­ble handling the way a professional 
woman handles herself on an
emotional level. 
Modern language professor Nan­
cy D' Antunono stated that men "have to free themselves," before they can accept women as human 
American Hostels, Inc. announces European trip 
American Youth Hostels, Inc., a non-profit, outdoor, recreational/ educational, travel organization, has planned a six-week French language hosteling trip through France, Switzerland and Luxem­bourg. The price for the trip is $1240, which includes air fare, lodging, all food and a qulaified trip leader. 
Participants will attend French language instruction classes for two hours a day during the month spent in Paris. The group will have most of each day in Paris free to examine the city, with weekend side-trips to the Loire Valley and Mont St. Michel planned. 
The special language trip will leave New York on June 27 and return on Aug. 9. The t.-ip leader is Diana Hayes, an attorney and a graduate student at the University of Buffalo. Hayes, who is also a member of the National AYH Board of Directors, may be reached at 171 Winslow Ave., Buffalo, NY, 14208, or by calling AC (716) 885-8716. 
Mud volleyball registration set 
Students interested in participa­ting in this year's Mud Volleyball Classic for An Tolstal should organize into teams of six to eight players. Games will begin April 3 to determine the four teams ·who will compete in the semi-finals in the mud. 
Team captains can register by calling John (3167), Dan (3117 or Paula (1313) today. 
English Dept.· outlines ND annual writing contest 
The University, in conjunction with the Department of English, has announced the annual writing competition, with prizes being awarded for the best writing done by students in poetry, playwriting, fiction and essay. 
The rules of the competition specifies that no entry may be submittedfor more than one com­petition. All entries must be typed, identified only by an attached card with author's name and address. Three copies of the written entry must be submitted to room 309 in O'Shaughnessy Hall by 4p.m. on Wednesday, Apr. 13, 1977. 
Each entry will be judged a­nonymously by faculty and mem­bers of the University. Winners of the awards will be announced near May 1. In early May, there will be a public reading of material from the winntng entries. 
The awar-ds for writing are: The Samuel H~ ·Poetry Aw•d· Each poet is asked to li~i.t his entry to a maximum of five poems, the total number of lines not to exceed 
200. The Notre Dame undergrad­uate who submits the best poetry will receive an award of $50.00. 
The Willi~ Mitchell Award for Playwriting. For the Notre Dame undergraduate.. whQ. subwit~ . the best original play--one act or Ionger--$50.00 will be awarded. 
The Richard T. Sullivan Award for Fiction Writing. A prize of $50.00 will be given to the Notre' Dame undergraduate who writes the best short story or chapter from a novel. Only one submission per student is allowed. 
The Academy of American Poets Prize. This category, open to any Notre Dame undergraduate or graduate student, will award $100.00 for the best group of poems. No more than five poems should be submitted, and the total number of lines should not exceed 
200.  The  judges  for  the  llazo  
Award  will  not  judge  this  com­ 
petition.  

The Meehan Medal for Literary Merit. A medal will be awarded to the Notre Dame senior who sub­mits the best original essay on a subject of his or her own choice. 
The John T. Frederick Prize. A prize of $30.00 plus an inscribed 
plaque is given for the best essay in litefary criticism by a Notre Dame undergraduate. 
For more info,rmation about the writing competition, contact Pro­fessor Donald Sniegowski, director of undergraduate studies in Eng­lish, at 309 O'Shaughnessy Hall or by phone_ at 6618 or.7150 •... -~ 
beings. 

Calling the discussion a "sue­cess," Jorgensen concluded that she hoped the meeting had helped
alleviate some of the problems experienced by women. "We got a 
· great response from faculty mem­hers," Jorgensen said. "And the informality was great. I think we've heard some interesting and helpful 
THERE MUST ~
h 
I 

A MICHAEL WINNEr\ FILM 
FOREVER DE ~TGTUAHERDIAN  1 fsen  ln., 
""  ~  ~  
GATE FRO M HELL...  A UNIVEfl.SAL f.'ICTUI\E fR1 . TECH NICOLO!\®~~  

'THE SENTINE[' CHRIS SARANDON •CRISTINA RAINES 
· 
~m 
; •u 
~O~f5 

(and all NEW) [!!: '® A UNIVERSA.L RELEASE 
••th~i~n~g~s~hier~e~t;o~n~ig~h~t.1• • •••••~~ii~~-~-i-~-~:.iilliiii~~~~=-..~~~ii~iiiiiiiiil
1 

From Ralph Baksht•' 
f • •

master 0 antmatton, comes an epic fantasy in wondrous color. A vision of the world, 10 million years in the future, where Wizards rule the earth. And the powers of magic prevail over the forces of technology in the final battle for world supremacy. 

20TH CENTURY-FOX PRESENTS 
A RALPH BAKSHI FILM 

SHOW TIMES _ · l:4S~:20-5:00­
I (t) ~t·Mt! ·~; MQ.6:45-3:30-10:10 
1 Mile North of NOTRE DAME on U.S. 31 North ·JustSouthofNORTHVILLAGEMALL • (219)277-1522 MATINEES DAILY 
FINAL WEEK SEE IT NOW 
· 


National East. 
. . _ _cont'd. 
[continued from page 16] 1s also trying to bounce back from a dismal season, 1 with Bob Apodaca and vet Ray Sadecki. The only 'I and having to carry the load can't help. The Cards loss was in the retirement of veteran Mickey Lolich, have a lot of talent, but not enough balance to who pitched much better than his 8-13 mark contend. indicated. • MONTREAL--The Expos strengthened themselves 
The Met offense is Dave Kingman. Sky King was a : by signing Dave Cash to play second base, and 
~11:re be~ fo~ SO h?mers and 125 RBI's until a ha~d acqll:iring T~ny Pere~ to pl~y first base. With Larry mjury s1dehned him for 6 weeks. H he clears up h1s Pamsh at thttd and TlDl Fob, coming off his best year contract problems and learns how to catch a fly ball, -in the majors, at short, the Expos are set in the he could be an All-Star this year. infield. 
The rest of the Met outfield will consist of rookie Del Unser will probably anchor the outfield, but Lee Mazzilli in center, and near-rookie Mike Vail in watch for two youngsters to make the headlines this right. H Vail can hit like he did at the end of the 1975 year. One is Ellis Valentine, who hit .279 with 14 season, the Mets will be in good shape. stolen bases the second half of last year. Valentine 
John Milner will be the first baseman, his natural can fly and has a rifle for an arm. The other is Andre position, and Roy Staiger, a sure glove, will be at Dawson, who hit .350 in triple-A ball last year, and is third. In the middle, the Mets are hurting. Bud Ibeginnign only his third year of pro ball. ~arrelson and Felix Millan have lost at least one step Gary Carter will be back behind the plate, looking m the field and can no longer turn over the double to regain his Rookie of the Year from 1975. His play. pitchers will be shaky. Steve Rogers and Don 
The Mets do have a potential superstar in catcher 1 . Stanhouse are the only starters, and Will McEnaney Johrl Stearns, who will platoon with Jerry Grote this 1who came from the Reds with Perez, is the only year. . 1 reliever. 
Ifthe Mets get more hitting than they expect, they could be darkhorse contenders, but don't bet on it. 
ST.LOUIS--On paper, the Cards always look good, but then they take the field and it's a different story. This year ~will be no different as the new manager v.ern Rapp takes over the helm from Red Schoen­d1enst. 
The Cardinal strength is in the outfield where Lou Brock, 37 going on 45, is still entrenched in left'field. 
The Expos ate terribly short on pitching, but can field and eight-man squad good enough to keep them out of the cellar. 
CHICAGO--At the end ofthe 1976 season the Cubs had the second worst pitching staff in ba;eball, but they did have a two-time NL batting champ in Bill Madlock, and one of the league's premier center-fielders in Rick Monday. At the beginning of the 1977 season, the Cubs could have the worst pitching staff 
Bake McBride can be one of the top centerfielders in in baseball, and they don't have Madlock or Monday. baseballl if he can avoid injuries. Hector Cruz, a third You would think P.K. Wrigley would get smart and baseman last year, Mike Anderson or newly-acquired find some pitchers, Instead he goes out and gets two Joel Youngblood will play right. Jerry Mumphrey will outfield platoons. be the backup in left or center. In ~he lo~g run, the While tht Cubs field a minor league pitching staff, lack of arms on Brock and McBnde wlll hurt the they can go with the A outfield of Jose Cardenal, Jerry Cards. . . . Morales and Bobby Murcer, or the B squad of Greg 
Ted S1mmons will be trying to bounce back from an Gross, Joe Wallis and Gene Clines. With this outfield off-year behind the plate, and the Cards acquired surplus, one would think that the Cubs would trade. Daye Rader from the Giants as ~ sub. In the infield, for somebody to go with Ray Burris and Bruce Sutter Ke1th Hernandez came around m the second half of and masquerade as major-league pitchers. No not the season to become the regular first baseman. Mike the Cubs. · ' Tyson will be at second, with. speedster ~arry \ Instead, they'll play Steve Ontiveros at third, which T~mplet?n at sh?rt, and reacqll:tted K~n Re1tz at iD?eans Cardenal is going to get plenty of action. And t~1rd. It s a good infield, but nothmg to wm pennants Ie1t~er George Mitterwald or Steve Swisher will catch wtth. whtch means that Manny Trillo better wear shin-
On the mound, the Cards and in trouble. John guards at second base. Denny, last year's ERA champ, heads the starting The Cubs have so many weaknesses that it isn't rotation which includes Bob Forsch, Pete Falcone and even funny anymore. They don't have much of a past newcomer Larry. Dierker. There's potential in. no present, and not much of a future. But, if you lik~, Falcone, but nothmg has been proven yet. /18-16 baseball games Wrigley Field is the place to• 
The bullpen is AI Hrabosky with no help. Hrabosky be. ' 
/ NOTICES 4 bedrooms, furnished apartment l \ 
within walking distance of campus. This is 'Be Nice to Mo Reynolds' . . .
Cl ifi• d Ad
~-------------------------------------------,I
Ticket,s tor the Sunday, Sprill7 LED Call William Hill, 232-1724. QSSJ Je S week starting with this Personal. ~.Y fl_rst Presidential Ord~r, Walt
I ZEPPELIN concert at Market Square Arena in Indianapolis and the Thursday April 14 RUSH and
• 
1 
STARCASTLE concert at Ft. Wayne Coliseum are now on sale at JUST 
FOR THE RECORD, 100 Center Underground in Mishawaka. 
I 
I --------------­Summer Europe fare: from $287 to $379. Long and short suration flights 
weekly departures available. Call Henri, 287-1198 anytime.
I ---------------­
1 
MANAGEMENT WORK-STUDY' 
I 
PROGRAM THIS SUMMER at Quantico, Virginia, free transporta­tion, free room and board, free 
books and uniforms, and $115.00I per week. See the selection team in LaFortune Student Center, March 29-Spril L 9 a.m. to 4 p.m.I --------------­1 
The annual $1.00 OFF AND FREE PAPERS SALE in Tuesday AprilS at JUST FOR THE RECORD, 100I Center Underground from 8:00a.m. 'to midnight! No limit on albums plus free music and refreshments. 
I Accurate, fast typing. Mrs. Donoho. 
~~~~-~~~_:_~a~m__:_~~~~ 
EUROPE-WORLDWIDE academic
I 
I 
discounts year round S.A.T.A. 4228 First, Tucker, Ga. 30084 (800J 
241-9082. 
I ND Finance Club is bullish on
I ~~e~i~;.' s"fdogck Stock Market 10-3 
Lewisio's tonight 7:00p.m. ComeI for good food and ~od company. 
I MORRISSEY LOAN FUND No more loc;.-os to May '77 grads. All others, last applicat1on date is AprilI I 6, last day to pick up loan is April 7. LaFrotune basement 11:15-12:15 M-F. $20-150, one day wait. One 
1 
I percent interest. Due in 30 days. MAY '77 GRADS All Morrissey loans must be paid by April 13. 
Amtrak to St. Louis over Easter break $33. Round trip. Forms in S~dent Activities, LaFortune. ~----------~--­
Use the random walk theory and invest. Anyone can win! Mock Stock .Market. 
Faculty or staff wanting to sublet -home or apartment during extended IP.ave. Contact University Profes­· sional at 237-4421.8 a.m. to 5 p.m. 
FOR RENT 

Rooms for rent this summer. Very reasonable, and just a few blocks from Notre Dame. Phone 277-3604. 
Summer apartment 2 bedroom, completely furnished including dish­washer and air conditioning. Fully carpeted. In nice area within short walktoND.ContactChrisafter6:00 p.m.at 277-0953. 
Rent my upstairs $40.00 per month. Call 233-1329. 
Two bedroom house to rent. Sum­mer and-or school year. 1012 Eddy Street. $120 mo. plus utilities. Call Oddies Harris at 232-8563. 
5-bedroom house, real nice, large living room and kitchen, fully fur­nished, close to campus, has burglar alarm, call Charlie Moore 272-7180. 
Summer rental and-or next aca­demic year. Great house. 8 rooms fully furnished. 4 bedrooms, 2 baths. Washer, dryer. Large lawn. Near Jeff-Eddy. 234-1972. 
Lost: Last week. Gold mechanical pencil. Probably on 2nd floor Library or between there and Keenan. Call 
~~~-----------­
Available for fall semester: 2 ex­cellent houses in fine neighbor­hoods. Each ideal for 5-6 students. 1021 DeMaude and 1016 Lincoln Way West. Call Mr. Gatto 234­6688 
, --~-----------­
LOST & FOUND 
Found pair of glasses behind Eng. ineering Bldg. Call Mike at 8953. 
Rewrad for 5 year old silver Seiko Watch lost in ACC before break. Much sentimental value. Larry 287­8301 or return to Lost and Found. ----------"-----­Lost: Gold cross on a chain Thurs. nite · probably in the bars. Reward. 
Please call Tom _ 1421. 
Lost a silver modern pen Friday before break. Brand: "Aurora" If found please call Monica 7870. It's very importante. 
Lost: Brown and white knitted cap which can be pulled down into a ski mask. Lost somewhere on the ND-SMC shuttle bus, Tuesday, March 22. This cap has great 
,sentimental value. If found, please ·call 1398. ·--------------­Lost: Leninger's Biochem book on . 2nd floor Library. DESPERATELY need it! Please call Diane 1329. 
Texas Instruments SR-51-11 calcul­ator lost in Freshman Chem Lab. Substantial reward for return. No 
WANTED 

Wanted: Ride to New Jersey on Tuesday or Wednesday, April 5 or 6. Call Val 8125. 
Need ride to and from Miami for Easter break. Can leave Wed. night. I am desperate. call 1424 and ask for Bob. 
Deseprately need ride to Wichita,' Kansas/for Easter. Diane 4-4348. 
Need ride to and from Ft. Lauder­dale area for Easter break. Will help with expenses. Please contact Cris 4-4983 or Beth 4-4992. 
------~-------­
Wanted: Married student couple (one child okay) to live in, and be companions to 3 teen-age boys. Room and board in exchange. Would be required to cook family dinner, do light housework and do minor house repairs. Exchange re­ferences. Call 288-1411 or 291-181<1. 
~s~~':.!~~---------­
Wanted:RidetoChicagothisSatur­day. Call Debbie 8125. 
Riders needed. Girlfriend is driving from MJ to ND on Mon, April 11, and return·ng t NJ s A ·1 17 
~~~~:.!~~~--:~~:-· 
FORSALE 

i'69 camaro, rebuilt engine or '69 'Fiat Sport Spyder 288-2484.
I 
R,-;:-~;;Vi~t-;135-;;;:;-~2."8~-;;t0 . 
telephoto lens, with case. Seldom used. Call Chris 8208. 
PERSONALS 

Marty, Rich, and Dillon's Finest Co., What we thought was a jam turned into a fracture. Payments are 
due the 1st of the month in care of Farrell Fawcett. ------·--------­
Happy B-day Decelia from rascal, friar. & craig. 
Attention: NJ and NY residents . round trip bus available to NYC for Easter. Appx. $35. Info . call 287-9453 ND Lacrosse Club. 
Dear Munich, My room has a great view of th~ Dome. Why don't you come up and visiJ me? MBA 
To the Puzzling Personal Person, who are you?!? Don't you think this secret has gone on long enough? I 

Friday, April1, 1977 the observer 15 
egular season awaits ­Notre Dame nine 
The Note Dame baseball team .will attempt to open its regular season tomorrow with a double­header at Toledo. The Irish were scheduled to meet St. Joseph College and Northern lllinois last week, but the four contests were 
·cancelled. At this time it is not known whether or not these games will be made up. Dr. Tom Kelly's club is currently 4-8 on the season after its spring trip to the South. The Irish showed the effects of lack of outdoor practice on the southern journey. · 
. Most of the teams they played were in their 15th or 20th games. Jim Sholl and Don Wolfe are 
Golfers triumph 

The Notre Dame golf team defeated Bradley University 373-385 yesterday at Burke Memorial Golf Course. 
The Irish golfers were paced by John Lundgren. The freshman standout, who won the Notre Dame Invitational this past fall, finished the day with a two-over-par 73. 
Dave Knee followed Lundgren with a 74, while Tim Saurs and Bob Belmonte each added a 75. Junior Captain Rich Knee posted a 76, giving the Irish their 373 total. 
Bradley was led by Jerry Young, who captured medal honors with a 72. 
After yesterday's performance, coach Noel O'Sullivan is looking forward to this weekend'sschedule. This Saturday, the Irish play host to Detroit College, and on Sunday, the Notre Dame golfers face Oak­land College. Both duel meets will start at 1:30 p.m. Then on Monday, the Irish battle AquinasCollege at 2 
p.m. at Burk~Memorial. 
_The Irish golfers have one goal in mmd as they enter into action this weekend, to break the dual meet record of 359 set by the 1974 Notre Dame varsity. 
" 
expected to be on the mound for the Irish Saturday. Wolfe pitched very well on the spring trip as he allowed only four earned runs in 17 1innings. He defeated Christian ·Brothers College S-2 in the first game of the season. Sholl hurled a shutout against the same team in Ihis first appearance of the season. 
The senior righthander is coming ,off an excellent fall in which he 'threw three shutouts in three ;apprearance. ! The Irish will have to improve at ·the plate if they are to better their 
record. As a team they only hit 
.247 on the trip after connecting at 
a .288 figure last season. Soph­
omore shortstop Ricky Pullano was 
lone ofthe bright spots, hitting .343 
1in the 12 contests. His on-base 
average was a shade under .500. 
!Freshman Dan Voellinger was a 
Ipleasant surprise as he connected 
\for seven extra base hits and a 
'team high 22 total bases in the 
·southern contests. 
Notre Dame will start a veteran 
team Saturday at Toledo. Jim 
Abbatiello, a senior from Long 
.Island, New York will start at first. 
Frank Fiascki, last season's leading hitter, will join Abbatiello on the right side of the infield. Pullano will start at shortstop and either Bob Cleary or Rick Greenwell will man third base. 
Captain Stan Bobowski, senior Mike Galloway and junior Dave De Facci should start in the outfield, but Bill Starr, who hit .364' on the spring trip, will see much action throughout the season. 
Voellinger and senior Tim Pol­lock, who hit over .500 last fall, will alternate the catching and desig­nated hitter duties. 
The Irish will open their home schedule Tuesday, April 5 with a doubleheader against Bethel beginning at l:OOp.m. Valparaiso will travel to Kline Field the following afternoon for a single game at 3:00p.m. 
That means you, too, Katie!!! You're welcome, Mo. 
Goz Boz -Remember -It's Friday! So, don't eat eggs!! Mobil 
Freshman Formal April 16th 9-1 
a.m. ACC Concourse Room. For tickets and information, contact your Fresl)man Hall Representative. 
Maureen, Mamie, and Mike, Thanks for everything. we put a lot of work into it. Pat 
UGLY MAN IS COMING. SAVE YOUR PENNIES! 
For Sale . '69 Buick Opel Kadett. Good condition. Dependable. Best offer. 277-0352 after 5 p.m. 
Feeling depressed? ND-SMC Hot-
line 4-4311 open nights. 
My darling Schwantz . Oh, how 1 miss you, Let me count the ways "All" ways, small ways, big ways, tall ways. Hurry up and tackle my tickles before 1 atrophy. Love, Cleo 
"Le;;;-;:~~~;;;;;w-J;;;;'th!;:;k, 
2monthsfromtodayyoustartschool -again! Celebrate now or you're a fool. s 
K K, Have a good day & better hite. 
~~~~-----------
Holmless -Congratulations! Now that you have a position of re­

' sponsib'ility will you maintain some? (I think you know what I'm talking about!) Have a good time next year! Just another campus resident 
· (Notral 
Agnes, Keep on "B" lining to' line. All of the line enjoys your lines. Desserts 
The Women in 142-_May this week­end be as ecstatic as last yet less audible. Ears 
Murphy's Massage Parlor's Florida Trip · Have 3rd anniversary. We. love you all. The President and 
Secretary 

, Nanook of the North -22 tomorrow-I what an old lady! Hope your day is happy. a former roommate 

Be yourself for a change. Gay Community of Notre Dame. Phone 8870, Sat. 10-12. 
m.g .Is no longer welcome In Breen-PhilliPS Hall. 
Lewis Hall presents Lewisio's to­night. 7:00p.m. Come an·d enjoy it. I 
Dea~ Farrah, Are you really Mary I Tobin? An April Fool' Julia, let's talk about Maneria. The 
Photo Man 
Jaybird, Spring has arrived, it's time to fly north. Holy smoke me, where have you been. Love, Muffs 
Hobbs, Happy Birthday, bearded wonder. Go get blitzed and rape and plunder, Enjoy those whets you'll be 

Itakin', But you'll be sorry when you awaken. NN 
To the four who topped our night with wine, Hope your night is· as 
I great as was mine. THANKS -xo­your future roomie 
I 
4
It's high time we got 32 cleaned! 
I 
Thanks to all who helped blow away 
the debris. D. Pits Sharon Maureen 
rRIGs~--~--------I 
Have a great time in Chicago, but 
I 
bring him back with you -guaran­' teed no return. THE THREE LIT­
I 
TLE CHUBS 
I 
P. H. ~~f?~ows, maybe your number is 
SS Oh-,t-ha-t'-sg-oo-d;-.1.------­
Collier, To the Bi-Afrian lame one. How's the glue holding. 
1 Chris Vaughan, Who's your ghost 1 writer? We thou~ht all amoebas were functional illiterates. Water 
\ ~~~~~~~~~.!_S..:._'~.:.___ 
I 
Attention girls: My formal calendar is filling up. 1 This is your last chance to da~ with Notre Dame's BEST DANC 
1
1 Call Edward Justin Barry at I with name of formal, date, and s 
I 
'color you would like me to wear. ACt 
I~~~------------­
Hurry! Sale at Leather Banana ends April 6. Call 259-1060 for info. 
MaryBeth, 
Congratulations!! Good luck Satur­1day. I'll want to see YOJ.40n TV next . year!! Boston 
lDe-;r"Kinili;I;G:-;------­1have been preparing and I'm now 1 fully organ-ized for tonight's formal 1festivities. With all heart and boQy Andy B. 

questions asked. Call Mike 8327. hope to hear from you soon...CH 
-------------------------,-~-~----------~ 
.:......._________...._..............~~---~----..-~ 
. ,,_: 

-
DeCicco -the extraordinary coach 
by Bob Keen Sports Writer 

Professor, Advisor, Coach; in­dividually none of these terms can adequately describe Michael A. DeCicco. Rather it is this unique combination which rank him as one of the most versatile and influential members of the Notre Dame com­munity. 
Last weekend 1 while all eyes were focused on the NCAA Basket­ball Tournament in Atlanta, the Notre Dame fencing team, coached by DeCicco, won its first NCAA Championship. In addition to this feat Notre Dame completed its second undefeated season and extended their regular season un­beaten streak to 67 matches. In recognition of this outstanding achievement, Head Coach DeCicco was named NCAA "Coach of the Year." . 
Although obviously pleased with his team's accomplishment, he was quick to criticize the tournament's format. "The present structure places a premium on individual superstars detracting from the 
team concept which is promoted throughout the regular season," stated DeCicco. He plans to propose a new revitalized format, similar to that of the NCAA basketball tournament, to the NCAA Rules Committee within the near future. 
The Notre Dame fencing pro­gram has changed drastically since 1947 when DeCicco, then a soph­omore, participated in his first college bout. During the next three years DeCicco, as a foil fencer, compiled a 45-4 record and a .918 

Mike DeCicco plays an important role in the lives of many NO students as professor, advisor and 
coach. to be matched. After recieving his Ph.D., De-Cicco. worked for the Kelmore Engineering Company in Newark, New Jersey. During the summer of 1954, he visited Notre Dame for nostalgia sake. Carl Schoenherr, Dean of the College of Engineering at the time, encouraged DeCicco to return to the golden dome and teach. He accepted the offer and returned to teach courses dealing with his specialty, heat transfer and engin­eering. Today, he teaches a course 
winning _percentage which has yet , entitled Environmental .Synthesis 
Ted Robinson 
National East 
· One and Two for architecture students in Mechanical Engin­
~ering. 

DeCicco's present position is that of Assistant Professor of Aerospace and Mechanical Engin­eering. "My teaching is of the most importance to me since my students have it within their power to greatly affect the world in which we live," DeCicco emphasized. "After all fencing is still just a game.'' 
DeCicco was appointed head coach of the fencing team in 1962 after serving_ as assistant coach of 
Five years ago, the National League East was the strongest division in baseball, but things ha~e changed quite a bit since then. Poor management m New York, Chicago and St. Louis has transformed contenders into examples of mediocrity. Age has slowly crept into the lunber machine employed ~y the 
Pittsburgh Pirates, and tr~sforme~ th~m. mto a running team. So, the Philadelphia. Phdhes took advantage of some key interleague tradmg, and good years out of retreads to capture the division crown la~t year. However, they have a long road to haul this year. In fact, this division could provide the clos.est race in the majors with as many as four te.ams ba!fltng it out down the stretch. The eventual wmner will b.e the team that gets the most mileage out of their question-mark players, and the Pirates seem to be the best bet for that. 
PITfSBURGH--New manager Chuck Tanner has to feel wanted. After all, how many teams would trade an all-star catcher, Manny Sanguillen! for a man~ger who has had winning teams in the majors only ~ce. Yet, there's little doubt that Tanner will have a wmner this year, and probably the division winne~. 
Pirates? 
Jackson, who came from the Yankees by way <~f 5eattle, was 6-0 with a 1.68 ERA for the Bronx 3ombers. In return for Zisk, the Buccos got Rich Gossage, 1975's best reliever, and Terry Forster, who had a pr~misi?~ care~r interrupted by ~rm pr?blems. 
, The Pirates hneup Is so strong that Bill Robmson, a .303 hitter with 21 homers, can't get off the bench. Find him a catcher's mitt. PmLADELPHIA--The Phillies got a lot of mileage out of some washed-up players last year, and it's highly doubtful they can repeat it. Their whole pitching staff is a question mark, as is the right side of · their infield with the departure of Dave Cash and Dick ' Allen. 
Jim Kaat is now 38, Jim Lonbor2 is 34, Ron Reed is 34, Tug McGraw and Steve Carlton· are 33. All except Carlton are past their prime, and Kaat and Lonborg 
have been particularly inconsistent in the past. The real youth on the staff is Larry Christensen, and inconsistency has also been his problem. 
Some relief to the problem could come in the form 1f rookie Randy Lerch, 13-11 in Oklahoma City last year. Ifnot, the pressure on the Phillie hitters will be 
A slow transformation began on the Pirates last greater than ever. ye.tr, as age began to show its effects on the bats of This team will go as far as their solid hitting outfield Willie Stargell and Sanguillen. Speedy shortstop. of Greg Luzinski, Garry Maddox, and Jay Johnstone Frank Taveras introduced base-stealing to Three will take them. Maddox should get an award for Rivers Stadium as he swiped 58 bases, including 27 in having the courage to play the outfield between the a row. other two. 
Indications are that the trend towards speed will Throw the league home-run king, Mike Schmidt continue this year as the Pirates are counting heavily into the picture at third base, and the Phillies can hi1 on a 24 year-old rookie outfielder named Omar with anybody. But free agent signee Richie Hebner Moreno to take over the centerfield ~pot. The Pirates will have to reincarnate his bat at first base, and the think so highly of Moreno that they traded Richie Zisk Phils will pray to find a second baseman. Dave to the White Sox and moved AI Oliver to left field. In Johnson, back from a two-year hiatus in Japan, and 48 games last year, Moreno hit .270 and stole 15 Ted Sizemore will battle it out for the starting berth. bases. Witit Oli-ver (.323 last year) in left and Dave Johnson wtill holds the major league record for Parker (.313) in right, the Pirates may have one of the homers in a season by a second baseman with 43, but best outfields in the NL. , -. his best years are behind him. 
In the infield, the Bucs are set up the middle With Bob Boone will handle the catching ~nd Larry Bowa Rennie Stennett at second and Taveras at s~ort .. The .he shortstop chores, and the Phillies have a good 
36 year-old Stargell, rescued from Charhe Fmle_~ player-development farm in Oakland. Garner has played second in his three major league seasons, but the Pirates are confident he can switch to third smoothly. A .261 bat with 74 RBI's last year won't 
hurt.. 

The biggest weakness in the Pirate lineup will be behind the plate where Duffy Dyer will get the job. out of default. Dyer has never played 100 games m a season, and bas a lifetime average of .220. Watch for another trade. 
John Canderlaria, perhaps the best young pitcher in the game, Jerry Reuss, Bruce Kison, Jim Rooker bench, but the Pirates have too many good arms. 
NEW YORK--After all these years, you would think the Mets would find some bats. But then you read that GM Joe McDonald was arrested for drunk driving, and you wonder i:.' he was in that condition when he traded away Amos Otis, Rusty Staub, and Ken Singleton among others. 
The Mets have the best pitcher in. baseball, Tom Seaved and the best staff m the majors (2.94 ERA last year), but can't score enough runs to win. Jerry Koo<>man and Jon Matlack will be joined by Craig Swan and rookie Jackson Todd for one of top startiilg rotations in baseball. Skip Lockwood, one of the most 
and Larry Demery provide a more-than-adequate anderrated relievers in the league, heads the bullpen starting rotation. Meanwhile, the Pirates went to the tin eel IS]
J [ 
AL to find bullpen help for. Kent Tekulve. Grant con ° on page 
(photo by Mike Kron) eight years. Since that time he has compiled an incredible record of 291 wins while only suffering 32 defeats. Maybe his most impres­sive achievement pertains to the fact that during his fifteen year coaching career the fencing team has never had a losing season. In 1963 DeCicco was chosen to fill a newly created position, Academic Advisor to Student Ath­letes. "The athletic and academic burdens of a university such as Notre Dame often create problems for the student athlete," DeCicco stated. "I work directly with the Deans of all the colleges to prepare 
an academic program which will allow the athlete to both earn a degree and continue his athletic participation." 
Father Joyce was responsible for 
Frank LaGrottat::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::====================::====::=:::::::::::::::::::::=====:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=: 
McGuire 
::;::::===::::::;::::=:=::::::::::========================:=============:=========================:=======:========:===:==Last Hurrah~ 
Last Monday evening at the Omni in Atlanta, the great god of the 
hardwood floor showed himself to be somewhat of a sentimentalist as 
he sent the Marquette Warriors back to Milwaukee with a 67-59 victory 
over the favored Tar Heels of North Carolina, along with the first 
NCAA championship in their illustrious history. The game itself was by 
no means a good one, yet there was a sense of poetic justice to it for it 
was a fitting end to the career of college basketball's most colorful 
coach, AI McGuire. 

Throughout his long career, which spanned 26 seasons and included 
over 500 games, McGuire was dealt much criticism by both fans and 
media for his exagerated floor behavior and sideline antics. The 
Marquette coach himself admitted that his assistants handled the X's 
and O's ofthe game and he was "in charge of the entertainment." For 
this he was lableed a "sideshow" and, at times, a "crybaby," by those 
who didn't understand the intent of college basketball (or any other 
spectator sport for that matter). 
Buried beneath all the talk about "building sportsmanship" and 
"establishing a good reputation for the school" is one of the most 
important, yet least-admitted reasons that basketball games, football 
games, tournaments and bowl games are played, to attract paying 
customers. Now that statement may invite criticism, but before yelling 
"skeptic," look realistically at the situation. 
If people did not but tickets to athletic events of watch them on 
television, there simply wouldn't be any games to buy tickets to or 
watch on tiel vision because there wouldn't be any money available for 
things like uniforms, coaches' salaries, travel expenses, etc. _(Try to 
have a football game if the visiting team can't afford the visit.) Thus, 
in an enterprise where the lifeblood of its' existence is public support, 
it is to the advantage of the participants to make sure that those people 
who buy tickets (and ulitmately pay the bills) are entertained. AI 
McGuire was, by his own admission, an entertainer. 
However, to satisfy the basketball purist it would be wise to mention 
that in spite of AI McGuire's obvious penchant for entertaining, he was 
an extremely good basketball coach as well. His career record of 404 
victories to only 144 defeats bespeaks the fact that McGuire could do 
the job he was paid to do, win basketball games. 
A.E. Housman's poem, "To An Athlete Dying Young," tells the story of a young runner who dies at the height of his career. The fourth stanza reads: 
Now you will not swell the rout 
Of lads who wore their honors out, 
Runners whom reknown outran 
,And the name died before the man. 
_AI McGuire did what everyone of us dreams of; he went out a 
~inner. Monday night's game was a storybook ending to the career of 
one of the truly "class" guys in the athletic world. After the game 
someone wrote that Marquette really couldn't compete with North 
Carolina as far as sheer talent goes and that is probably true. The 
column went on to say that Marquette won that game because ·thay 
"wanted to give McGuire a going-away present." That, to me, is the 
greatest honor a coach could receive. 
AI McGuire went out a winner...but, then agian, he always was. 
the qeation of this position at a · time when it had been discovered that many colleges and universities· were not providing their atheletes with adequate educations. "It was not so much that these same problems were prevelant at Notre Dame," emphasized DeCicco, "but rather that Father Joyce has always had a knack of anticipating problems before they develop." 
Although DeCicco's success has been unparalelled in Notre Dame fencing history, next season his squad will face the additional pressure which the title "defend­ing champion" always brings. Only senior epee specialist Tim Glass will be lost from what DeCicco states is "the best team I've ever coached." "However, I did not expect that we would win the national championship this year because we lost it with comparable talent last year," stated DeCicco. ''We've got to be rated as one of the favorites, but no one backs into a championship." 
Certainly, DeCicco will be hard pressed to repeat this year's per­formance. Yet while interviewing him one realizes that he can o1lly be satisfied with perfection, whether it be in the gym, office or classroom. Indeed, DeCicco more than ad­equately fills the roles which one might normally assume would be occuppied by three separate in­dividuals, but then Mike DeCicco is no ordinary inidividual. 
Registration set 
for girls b-ba/1 

To register for the Jocks vs. Girls Tournament contact Patti Coogan at 6883. Ten girls are allowed per team, with a maximum of three club or varsity players per team. All St. Mary's and Notre Dame girls are eligible for competition. Deadline for registration is April6. 




