200 protest groundskeeper lay-offs 

by Michael Ridenour Staff Reporter 

The offering of a mass for Social Justice near the steps of the Administration Building was tenta­tively decided upon by some 200 students and faculty in LaFortune lounge last night. The mass would be offered tomorrow at 12:15 p.m. to support the groundskeepers fight against the University. 
Signs announcing the finalized plans for the celebration will be posted this afternoon. 
Tom Soma, Student Body vice­president, said petitions protesting the University's decision to perma­nently lay off the groundskeepers Nov. 1 will be collected at the close of mass. The petitions wiU be presented to Fr. Theodore Hes­burgh, University president, this Friday. 
Soma called the meeting last night for three reasons: to show concern for the groundskeepers, to set the facts straight about the whole situation and to decide what course of action to take. 


"I am disturbed about the way this thing is progressing. The timing of the lay-offs is question­able," Soma stated. 
"Last year, I put a laundry proposal," he continued, "and the Administration shot me down be­cause they accused me of trying to put people out of work. Now with the groundskeeping situation, the University appears contradictory." 

The petitions, which students can sign at the dining halls, ''will hopefully make Hesburgh respond," Soma said. Along with petitions, Soma called for letters to be written to the Administration as well as to the Observer protesting the University' action. "We must keep the heat on," he emphasized. 
Other ideas for protesting the University's decision included us­ing the upcoming Southern Cali­fornia football game. Showing signs in the stands plus alerting incoming media, it was suggested, ''would hopefully give maximum coverage to the conflict." 
Another suglestion called for a student demonstration blocking en­trance to the Administration Build­ing. Sending mail-agrams to dignitaries around the country was also brought up. 
Ed Gaffney, chairman of a committee for Social Justice, said that Hesburgh is a powerful ally because he has an unblemished record when it comes to human rights. "Hesburgh is a great strength for us,'' Gaffney noted. 
Ricardo Parra, head of the Midwest Council of La Raza, said he would try to make the issue [continued on page 4] 



Tom Soma speaks at the protest meeting concerning the groundskeep­er lay-off situation last night. [photo by Doug Christian] 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's Vol. XII, No. 32 Wednesday, Ckiober12, 1977 
ND co-sponsors brief in Bakke court case 
by Michael Villani Staff Reporter 

Notre Dame has co-sponsored an amicus curiae brief concerning the case of Bakke v.. the Board of Regents of the University of Cali­fornia. An amicus curiae brief, according to Ferdinand N. Dutile, asst. dean of the Notre Dame Law School, is "a 'friend of the court' written argument serving to advise the court on a pending cause to which the filer of the brief is not a party." 
Upon petitioning and obtaining permission from the US Supreme Court to file an advisory brief, an organization formulates its written argument and sends it to the Supreme Court for referral p1,1r­poses. 
According to David Link, dean of the Law School, "the University affixed their name to such a brief. We expressed our general support of a brief filed by the universities of Pennsylvania, Stanford, Harvard and Columbia.'' 
Further support of the brief, continued Link, ''was given by Brown, Duke, Georgetown, MIT, Vanderbilt, and Villanova. 
The Bakke case has received niore briefs than any other case in the history of the Supreme Court, stated Link. It has gained nation­wide attention, he continued, be­cause of its concern with Affirma­tive Action and racially-preferential policies. 
At present, the State of Califor­nia has ruled in favor of Alan Bakke and his acceptance into the Univer­sity of California-Davis Medical School. Today, however, the Supreme Court will review the record of this case in an effort to render a legal opinion on it. 

According to Link, ''the amicus curiae brief supported by Notre Dame tries to set preferential treatment systems into a proper prospective for the court.'' It urges, he continued, a reversal of the case and asks for it to be re-heard in order to get a better definition of the preferential treat­ment issue in this case." 
''In sponsoring this brief,'' he said, "Notre Dame takes the position of supporting preferential treatment systems of admission." 


BOYS WILL BE BOYS: The Dillon-Grace battle was renewed at the HPC meeting last night as Bob Hutchinson, Dillon president, received a pie in the face from Jerry Castellini, Grace president. Castellini preceded his pitching performance with a short speech about the seriousness of the HPC. See details of the meeting on page 2. [photos by Doug Christian 
Link sees the need of US educational systems' support of an Affirmative Action policy becuase it "serves a legitimate educational purpose in that it supports a clear educational goal to look for diver­sity in a student body." 
Such diversity is seen in varying cultural backgrounds, different tal­ents and diverse student opinion, he explained. "Thus, it is essential for a school to include people from every ethnic, racial and sex group. This allows a school to broaden its scholarly interests." 
Link sees the Bakke case as "dealing with basic educational issue of whether or not an educa­tional institution should be able to establish its own disparate percep­tive programs." 
Furthermore, he claimed, "the Bakke case serves to open eyes to the subtleties involved here. We're dealing with a delicate issue because of the broad educational implications involved.'' 
There have been two other briefs filed, related to the Bakke case, in which someone or some organiza­tion within the ND community has participated. 
The Black American Lawyer's [continued on page 2] 
•sulib'g' J.gWif•r)nf!tfl@s'$} 
with ND discount cards 
by Mark Perry South Bend shops involved in the Staff Reporter Notre Dame program · are: The 1 Peacock, Certified · Tfansmission SpeciaP~Student Buying Power•• .· Service,Shakey's Pizza (both loca~ cards . which ! wilt·.·· ·enable· Notre ··• tions), Clear.Vision·. Opticai,•··Jnc. • Dame students to get discounts at The Gentry Shop. Garry~s Shellt selected... · stores in the Michiana The Loading. Dock~ f"ratemal Jew-· area and participating shops across elry Spedalist~ . The Book ShaCk. ,the c::ountry. witl be distributed on .•. and the Posy Patclh Most .of the Thursday and .Friday from l to 5 shops offer 10 percen(discQ\lnts on 
p.m. atthe Student Government mercbancijse, althougil some h~ye Office in LaFortune. · ·· ·. · more.· or ·have restrictkms .on dis,. 
John Ryan, Administrative As-count items. The discounts for sistant for the Student Government .•. each sltop are outlined on the back and chairman of the buying card .·• of each Student Buying Power program, ·said that students only Card. . . 
need to present their ID's to . Ryan said thatthese merchants receive the• cards •. · He added that .. wUl·be .contacted in the next two students can pickup cards for their· days and. nQtified ·.that the cards friends ifthey have theil" ID's, but have beendistributed, He added· that each class will have a separate that students should be prepared to line.·Ryan·said that cards are also ·•· present their m~s in addition to the available to graduate students. · . Student Buying Power Card, be. 
According. to Ryan, .the buying cause he is not sure how each card program was initiated ·. by merchant will react upon receiving former Student Body President· the card, _.w that students should Mike Gassman. and wuld have sign the card as soon as they been put into effect at the begin~. ·receiveit~ . .....•..•••.. ning of this year if the .·present Ryan added that the only other administration }lad known about it.•..·. SChQ9lifi ~e areawhO is part ofthe 
The ·program,. which is run by L ·· program·· i$ .Indiana ·UniverSity at & B Marketing. Inc. in New Yotki South Bend, and thathe is trying to runs nationwide, Ryan said, and contact tlteir student government the cards cari be \lSed at shops who ·. to find otit if any other_stores are are ... itt the····· program at other part or···· their·. progra.J:n. Any universities across the United··. additions will be announced by the ·states. Ryan added that so~ Student Government. shops-might display stickers indica-Ryan said that if .anyone has ting that they are involved in the questions regarding the cards can 
ptogtant. contact him at 6413. ·. ·. 


YVednesday, Ckiober12, 1977
the observer 


News Briefs----......... 
FRANKFURT, West Gei'IIWiy • Two uniformed airline employees brandishing pistols hijacked a Czechoslovak airliner yesterday on a domestic flight with 27 other persons aboard and surrendered a few hours later in Frankfurt. Police said the pair, a man and a woman dressed in blue Czechoslovak Airlines uniforms, asked for political asylum. 
~====================National 

Nat11d nav11li11l: di1111 
SARASOTA, l<la.-MacKinlay Kantor, one of America's foremost novelists, died yesterday after a long bout with a heart ailment. He was 73. Kantor received worldwide acclaim and a Pulitzer Prize for • • Andersonville,'' a 1956 novel about a Civil War prison camp. Two decades later, he received the Freedom Foundation award for "Valley Forge," a historical novel of the American Revolution. 
.'!....Jy--.:-:.: 
-----~---­

eathar <~--""'-"~·'Ci#'· 
(i_ / 

Goudy this morning becoming mostly sunny during the afternoon. Highs around SO. Clear and cool tonight with lows in the mid 30s. Sunny and warmer tomorrow with highs in the low 60s. 
On Campus Today ___..... 
howard-badin religious commisiom, howard hall  
7pm  semin.r, "on career and marriage", by prof. carol glass, lewis hall rec room  
7pm  meeting, "a prolife forum," sponsored by the howard-badin religious commission, howard hall.  
7:30pm  film, "jedermann" sponsored by the german honor society, a film in german, lib. aud. free  
7:30pm  american scene, "origins and influence of late nineteenth century american literature," prof. william t. Ienehan, carroll hall smc  
8 pm  talk, by dan devine nd football coach, sponsored by badin and fisher, fisher  
9-11 pm  naz.z "jazz at the nazz", collection of modern jazz recordings-refreshments available, basement of Iafortune  
midnight  album hour, "never letting go", by phoebe snow wsnd 640 am  

. 1:30pm 3:25pm 
4:30pm 
_ 

demonstration, suvon, for staff, c.c.e. aud. 
seminar, "generation and removal of pollutants from automotive engines", by dr. joseph e. kummer, sponsored by the chen. engr. dept., rm. 269 chem eng. bldg. 
lecture "marxism and literary criticism:gyorgy Iukas", by prof. seamus deane, sponsored by the eng. dept., rare bk. rm. mem. lib. 
7,9,11 pm film, "play misty for me", sponsored by the 

ND Bakke brief 
[continued &om page 1] Student Association (BALSA), the Notre Dame chapter of the National Chicano Law Students' Associaton (La Raza) and the National Law­yers' Guild filed a brief "calling for a complete reversal of the Bakke case decision,'' according to ND law student Ted Maloney. 
The other brief associated with the University of Notre Dame was 
Scholastic seeks Copy Editor 
Scholastic magazine is now accepting applications for the position of Copy Editor. Anyone interested should bring an appli­cation to the Scholastic office, third floor LaFortune by noon next Monday. For further information, call Kathleen McElroy at 6887. 
'Block party'· Friday night 

Zahm and Farley halls, in conj­unction with Student Union Social Commission, are sponsoring a 
· "Block party" from 7:30 to 11:30 
p.m. this Friday on North Quad between the two halls. The band ..Night Aight" will perform and refreshments will be served. 
In case of rain, the party will be held in Stepan Center. 
filed by the US Justice Depart­ment. A draft copy, according to Rodolpho Sandoval, ND Law pro­fessor, "was circulated in order for certain people to comment on.'' 
The University, through the Pre­sident's office, offered constructive opinions to this Justice Department draft, said Sandoval. Fr. Theodore Hesburgh, University president, has yet to be contacted concerning the University's influence on this brief. 
The Observer Is pvbltPed Mon­day through Friday exe»pt durtng 
eum •d vaattion per10ds. TtJe 
Observer Is publlsi\M by the students of Notre Dame •d Saint Mary's Col..... Subacrlptlons INIY be purdluecl for S20 per ~.,. (S11 per semester) from The Obserwr, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 4US6. SecDIId dass post..• pHI, Notre Dame, Indian•, 46556. . The Observer 11 • member of the Assodeted Press. All repro­dudlon rttllts.,. reMrwd. 
Soma asks HPC to protest layoffs 
by Michael Lewis the Notre Dame groundskeepers. 
Staff Reporter Soma told the HPC he found 
Student Body Vice-President three questionable areas concern­Tom Soma asked the Hall Preside­ing the lay-off of the groundskeep­nt's Council last night ,to join ers and their subsequent replace­Student Government in support of ment by an outside firm. 


New directories due after October break 
by Susie Meyers 

Students will soon be able to dispose of their temporary student directories. According to the Notre Dame Office of Printing and Publications, the permanant tete-
Transpo firms offer service to seniors 
White Motor Corporation and the ATA Foundation offer a free resume service to all graduating students interested in motor freight transportation. Students must submit an application and photo­graph. Their photographs and vital information will appear in the 1978 Graduate Directory which will be sent to trucking companies nation­wide. 
Applications are available at the 
Placement Bureau, Room 213 of 
the Administration Building. 
Right to Life 
forum tonight 

A Right to Life forum will be held tonight at 7 in Howard Hall. Discussing the problems of Right to IJfe will be Charles Rice, Prof. of Law, Kenneth Goodpaster, Asst. Prof. of Philosophy, Sarah Daugh­erty, Asst. Prof. of English and Theologian Merten Sotto. 
Lenahan speaks on 'frustration' 
Professor William T. Lenehan, chairman of the department of English at the University of Wis­consin (Madison), will speak on "Frustrated Idealism and Frustra­ted Form in Late Nineteenth Cen­tury American Literature" in Car­roll Hall at St. Mary's College today at 7:30 p.m. His lecture is part of the American Scene Series and will focus primarily on the works of Mark Twain, Stephen Crane, and Kate Chopin. 
Professor Lenehan will also be on campus this afternoon to meet with faculty and students. 
f*The Observerl 
Night Editor: Joe Bauer 
Asst. Night Editor: Sandy 
Colson 
Editorial Layout: Maureen 
Flynn 
Features Layout: Joe Camarda 
Sports Layout: Tony Pace 
Typists: Mark Rust, Tricia 
Meehan, Eileen Lynch 
EMT: KC 
Day Editor: Maribeth Moran 
Copy Reader: Joan Fremeau 
Photographer: Doug Christian 
l ) 
phone books will arrive from the printer at the end of Oct. Since the office does not forsee any delays, students can expect to receive their books upon returning from mid­
semester break.  The method .of  
distribution  has  not  yet  been  
finalized.  

Information for the directories is 
. ' 
gathered from vanous sources,· an office spokesman said. Student listings are provided by a University computer, which also takes care of any additions or corrections, he explained. Faculty members themselves, on the other hand, are responsible for providing the Printing Office with home and office addresses and telephone numbers. In addition he noted, the Notre Dame and St. Mary's Student Unions furnish student government listings as well as activities calenders. 
The ND/SMC Telephone Directory is printed free of charge by a specialty printing firm in Indianapolis, In. In return, the University grants this firm per­mission to solicit advertisements which constitute directory's yellow pages. 
He  -first  questioned  Notre  
Dame's  timing  of  the  lay-off,  
especially  with  respect  to  the  

groundskeepers' plans to unionize. He then noted the administration's concern over last year's proposed installation of the coin-operated laundry. Soma explained that the administration believed the laun­dry could jeopardize the jobs of University laundry personnel. "Apparently this concern has dim­inished," he said. Finally, he said, "the groundskeepers still haven't received official word of the lay-off. 
"This is an issue where people can go beyond the concerns of academia," he explained. "I've found that the University tends to react if students do, but it takes a lot of work," he added. 
HPC Cha.irmin J.P. Russell said, "The HPC should come into this if a need arises for a student opinion poll. The HPC is one of the best tools to do this." 
Soma also asked the hall presi­dents to prevent double meanings in their hall's homecoming ban­ners. ''It (the double meaning) detracts from the whole week," he said. 
For the second consecutive week the HPC meeting was disrupted by a Dillon-Grace incident. Grace Hall president Jerry Castellini gave a short speech concerning the seri­ousness of the HPC meetings, and concluded by throwing a pie into the face of Dillon Hall president Bob Hutchinson. 
Russell expressed the hope that this would be the end of such incidents, "Since both sides have had their chance at retaliation.'' 

r---------------••••••••••••••••••••••••• 
I 
I 

I Another Lonely Weekend?
I I I 

·---------------------------------------·I I
Call St. Mary's Sodal Commission I 
I

PARTY LINE 
I I I

Call to list you events with us, or call to 
I 
I

find out what's happening! 
I I

4-5420' I 
·---------------------------------------~ A~rlr~ JJ~\tC IVJtfUJVILit 


·········~········ 
ACADEMIC AFFAIRS HOURS Every Wed. 7:30p.m. -9 p.m., office on 1st floor LeMans 
Gail Mandell & Cathy Hedges will answer your questions about grades, your rnaior, finding a tutor, etc. 
They have open ears 
All students weloome 

Mrs. ~ birth right advocate Pro. :Merttndto theologian 
w~y,oct12 
ward hall 7:00 pm 

d 
• 
, 
VVednesday, Ckiober12, 1977 the observer 
3 
Senior Trip rumors untrue 
by Rosemary Mills Senior Staff Reporter 
Plans for the Senior Oass trip 
remain unchanged, according to 
class president Pat Flynn. The 
remark was made in response to 
rumors of all or part of the trip's 
cancellation. 
Tom O'Neill, chairperson for the trip, .explained that rumors started when students learned of a strike against Trans International Air­lines. The private charter company had been contracted as one of the planes to fly seniors to San Francis­co. An alternate plane will be provided by World Airways. 
The 25-day old strike caused students to speculate that the trip would be cancelled, or those sche­duled for the Trans International flight would be unable to go. "My phone has been going nuts," stated O'Neill. 
According to O'Neill, the strike did not allow the class to break the contract with Trans International. He then had to decide between contracting another plane or using only one. The second plane is chartered from American Airlines. 
The chairperson of the board of Trans International, a Notre Dame alumnus, who had originally been contacted about the flight, provid­


ed the solution. According to Mary Lou Mulvihill, class vice-president, the alumnus worked with James 
W. Frick, Vice-President for Public Relations and Development, to arrange for the alternate plane. 
The World Airways stretch DC-8 will leave South Bend carrying 252 passengers. Another 173 seniors will travel to Chicago by motor coach to meet their American Airlines 707. In San Francisco, the seniors will stay at the Jack Tar Hotel in Union Square. 
O'Neill commented that some details still have to be worked out, but that everything should 6e settled in two or three days. 
A general meeting for all taking the trip will be held Monday evening at 7 in the Engineering Auditorium. O'Neill stressed the importance of the meeting, as all details of the trip will be given at this meeting. 

Church plans ramped entrance 
During the week of Nov. 7 a ramped entrance will be built on the east side of Sacred Heart Church, according to Bro. Kieran Ryan, assistant vice-president for Business Affairs. 
The present concrete walk in front of the entrance will be removed and replaced by a new concrete ramp covered with lime­stone. 
This project is part of Notre Dame's program to improve acces­sibility to campus facilities for the physically handicapped. 
The east entrance to Sacred 

Heart Church will be out of service 
until Friday, Nov. 18th. 

Booker to speak 
Prof. Frank Booker of the Notre 

• Dame law School will present a lecture, "The German Experience of Murder for Public Convenience,'' Thursday at noon in Room 115 ofthe Law Building. The lecture is sponsored by Notre Dame Lawyers for Life and the ND/SMC Right to Life Committee. Students, faculty and staff are invited to attend. 

Campus group~ oppose groundskeeper lay-off·­
by Dave Rombach Senior Staff Reporter 
The recent University decision to lay off 21 groundskeepers, as the workers were attempting to union­ize, has met with opposition from several campus groups--most no­tably Student Government and the Council of La Raza. 
Student Body Vice-President 
·Tom Soma stated that Student Government is supporting a peti­tion asking that the groundskeep­ers be retained and that their rights to bargain collectively be honored by the University. 
Ricardo Parra, head of the Council of La Raza, announced his intention to seek support for the petition in South Bend and among Spanish-speaking Catholics as weii as within the Notre Dame commu­
nity. Parra, along with second year 

Freight derails at St. Mary's 
A Penn Central freight train on its way from Niles to South Berid derailed on St. Mary's campus at approximately 7 p.m. yesterday, blocking the College's main en­trance for a little over two hours. 
According to company spokes­men at the scene, the mishap was caused by a defective switch. Workmen sent in from Niles spent about 30 minutes putting the !:rain back on the track with clamps known as "frogs." No heavy equipment was needed, according 
o the men, because one car was fempty and the other was carrying a ight load. 
Delays in repairing the problem !were caused by difficulties in ~ringing the equipment in from !Elkhart, the spokesmen told the Observer. • 

SMC Faculty Assembly indecisive 
by Kathryn JDI'gens 
After an hour of debate yester­day, St. Mary's Faculty Asembly ended up about where they began. Proposed revisions to the Assem­bly's grievance procedure were 


Santos honored 

Dr. John Santos, professor of psychology at Notre Dame has been named a research consultant for a national association for His­panic elderly, Asociacion Nacional pro Personas Mayores. 
Santos, who has recently devoted his research efforts to the need of Hispanic elderly, is director of the Mental Health Outreach Program for the Elderly at Notre Dame. 



1. 
.90 .80 .70 .60 .50 .40 .30 .20 .10 



·sA BP CR cv 



RATIO IS I STUDENTS CONTRIBUTING $1.00 OR MORE DIVIDED BY TOTAL NUMBER OF STUDENTS 
Mike. Lawrence of the National Labor Relations Board spoke at the meetmg to protest the lay-off of University groundskeepers. Tom Soma looks on. [photo by Doug Christian] 

returned to the Faculty Affairs 
Committee for further study.  No  
decisive vote resulted.  
The  grievance  procedure  is  a  

method by which faculty can voice their complaints (wages, students unjust treatment) and be heard. 
Resolutions added to the now outdated grievance procedures of 1970 were presented by Sr. Jean Finske, Prof. of Education.Because the old grievance procedure is inadequate in fulfilling the needs of today' s teachers, she said, the committee's proposed revisions call for the formation of a Griev­ance Committee. 
Anthony Ostric, Prof. of Sociolo­gy and a member of the Faculty Affairs Committee, presented a minority report with respect to the grievance procedure. Ostric found loopholes in the Faculty Assem­bly's constitution and the parlia­mentary procedures in relation to these resolutions. 

Thomas Woods, Prof. of English, was an active participant in the debate. Upon gaining the chair's acknowledgement, Woods stood up, walked across the aisle, took a microphone and in a few words brought the assembly back to the main point. That point was that the assembly had last month adjourned with the thought that at the next meeting they would discuss the resolutions and that they had just done that-in other words, he said, "let's get on with it." The effect was silence. The meeting was adjourned. 




United 
WCYatN:p. 
PARTICIPATION CHART 

Dl FA Fl FL 

law stude-nt Jose Bracemonte, wrote the petition. 
Bracamonte reported that there was some evidence of a binding Catholic canon demanding that Catholic universities support un­ionization. ''There is some talk of initiating canonical procedures,'' Bracamonte stated, adding that definite action in that direction has not yet been taken. 
Support for the groundskeepers has also come from individual students. Fran Evans, a junior, reported that she, along with some other students, had planned to draft a petition of their own when 
· they learn of the "La Raza" petition. Evans forecast that an extensive letter writing campaign and a ''general and overall student effort and reaction'' would be necessary if the grounds crew is to be maintained. 
Campus Ministry and the Com­mittee for Social Justice were noncommital when asked about the course of action they would take in dealing with the controversy. 
Ed Gaffney, head of the Commit­tee for Social Justice, a "group designed to translate Christian ideals into effective action," stated that he could not reveal his sub-committee's intentions until they had been made known to the entire committee. The Committee for Social Justice is a subcommittee of the newly formed University Committee on Education for Jus­tice. 
Fr. William Toohey, head of Campus Ministry said that a Minis­try commission has been exploring the question since it was revealed and that no course of action has yet been decided upon. 
Union meeting postponed 
The hearing this morning be­tween Teamsters Local364 and the University of Notre Dame was indefinitely postponed. The post­ponement comes as a result of the National Labor Relations Board (NLRB) running into fiscal diffi­culty. 
The hearing was to determine whether a representation election should be held among the 21 groundskeepers to see if they wanted to be unionized. 
An appropriation's bill on whe­ther federal funding should go to finance abortions is tying up Con­gress. The NLRB cannot receive any money from Washington until the abortion issue is resolved. 
"We're trying to reschedule the meeting at the earliest possible date," said Mike Lawrence of Local 
364. "We want it rescheduled at the earliest date because of the bad affects the delay would have on the workers," Lawrence added. 




WA ZA 

the observer Wednesday, October 12, 19n 

Congressional blacks urge affirmative action 
WASHINGTON [AP]-The Sup­-eme Court, preparing to hear u-guments in a controversial civil ights case, was urged by eleven )lack members of Congress yester­tay to issue ''a strong forthright'' !ndorsement of affirmative action nograms to insure jobs and school­ng for racial minorities. 
In an indirect way,. the U.S. Civil ~ights Commission made the same :>lea as it released a report defend­·ng such programs as necessary to ;::ompensate minorities and women for past discrimination. 
The Congressional Black Caucus md the commission took their msitions in advance of oral argu­:nents scheduled today in the ~upreme Court in the case of the ·egents of the University of Califor­nia versus Allan Bakke. Some civil rights groups say the high court ruling could be the most significant n two decades for the future of ·ace relations in America. 
The case invol\·es Bakke's claim :hat he was denied admission to the ~niversity's medical school at Da­;is because he is white. He ;ontends that black applicants with ower test scores were admitted 1head of him because the univer­
ioder speaks 
Dr. John Howard Yoder, profes­sor of theology at Notre Dame, will present a talk, ''Tertium Datur: Refocussing the Jewish-Christian Schism," at 8 p.m. this Thursday in the Memorial Library Auditor­tum. The lecture is sponsored by the Department of Theology and is ;,pen to the public. 
lay-off decision protested 
continued &om page 1] k:nown outside the University. ''I'm trying to get petitions signed rom all walks of life. This decision Jy the University is not a fair Jayment for what the grounds­;:eepers have done here." As to the groundskeepers know­edge of their lay-off from reading he South Bend Tribune, Soma :choed a comment Gaffney had nade earlier. "There is a gap Jetween all this high-sounding :hurch rhetoric and its fulfillment n its institutions." "I called three other universities :oncerning the salary scale for ~roundskeepers and Notre Dame was fourth out of four in that S!.Irvey,'' Soma revealed. 
In  a  closing  statement,  Soma  
said,  Student  Government  "sup­ 
ports  rights  of  workers  to  be  

treated with dignity and fairness by the University. If to be treated with dignity and fairness they must be represented by a Union, then we support that right also.'' 
There will be a meeting at 8 p.m. Monday in LaFortune to discuss the possible repercussions of the mass and the petitions. A demon­stration time will also be determin­ed then. 

ahe lPinJ_jammer 
CREATIVE HAIR DESIGN FOR THE SEXES 
RElAXING ATMOSPHERE 
' 

FREE HAIR ANALYSIS 
RK RETAU.. CENTER 
I~ 1637 LW'W So. ~end 232-6622 Appt. enly.JJJ.t"
\ . ' .. 

sity followed a program to select 16 the constitutional mandate that minority applicants for each enter­equalitiy and freedom must be ing class of 100. meaningful concepts for all the 
The California Supreme Court people of our country,'' the caucus upheld Bakke's claim and ruled said in a brief submitted as a friend that the university system amount­of the court. ed to unconstitutional discrimina­''Any vacillation or hesitation by tion. this court in reaffirming the fun­
The eleven black House mem­damental principles at stake in this bers who compose the Congres­case may well sound the death sional Black Caucus urged the high knell of the progress made since court to reverse the California this court's decision" outlawing decision and affirm the constitu­school desegregation in 1954, the tionality of the university program. caucus continued. 
"The future health and welfare In its report, the Civil Rights of this nation, both domestically Commission called affirmative ac­and internationally, dictate that tion programs "promising instru­there must be no judicial retreat on ments in obtaining equality of 
Hesburgh com111ends United Way efforts 
~frtnitl! of ~otre ~znue 
2!(otre ~""''· ;Jnbi•,.. 46556 
1977

-................ October 10, 
: 
i I 
Dear Hall Presidents and Community Services Commissioners: 
I would like to extend my thanks for your work on this year's United Way Fund Drive. Your involvement with the drive was brought to my attention by Professor Charles Wilber, faculty director for United Way at Notre Dame. His enthusiastic comments moved me to write this letter. 
I think it is important to experience the responsibility to give during a college education. The United Way Fund Drive is one very good way to gain this experience. I find it admirable that the student goal is set at 1~ participation rather than a total dollar figure. Your emphasis on one-on-one solicitation and personal contact is exemplary of your commitment to promote responsible givlng. 
As you know, the entire University is involved with the United Way Fund Drive of St. Joseph County. Notre Dame, as part of St. Joseph County, is asked to pledge an annual donation to the fund. Faculty, administration, staff, and students participate each year to meet this goal. Your work to help support the many charitable organizations in the local community will be greatly appreciated by many less fortunate than ourselves. Your unselfish efforts are a contribution to the University, as well as to your fellow students. 
Thanking you for your devoted efforts and wishing you the best in your hall during the remainder of this academic yt<ar, I am 
Ever ~ev tedj;;lyin Notre fame, 
-~ILL... -I_, "'~ 
. "". . . 
(Rev. ~e.odore M. Hesburgh, C.-;J/C President l/' 


·,--------------------------------'
1 

COLOR WALLET SPECIAL $2.98 ' 
Bring this coupon to 

a McJon Photo Center, and get 12 wallet size color pictures for only $2.98 from your favorite color photo. 
Offer good until No negative required. No limit. Attach this coupon to outside of envelope. 

•, A Mc1ell PHOTo CENTER ~, ;
code sa2 

'-----~~--------~------------~---' 
Mar-Man Alarmacy, 426 W. Michigan Park at McDonald's ''Student Checks • cashed with SMC-N D I D card 
... 

opportunity.'' "Such a decision could only be 
The commission statement did reached by ignoring the crushing not deal directly with the Bakke burden of unemployment, poverty case, but contained obvious refer­and discrimination facing blac ences to the forthcoming court people and others whose skins are ruling. dark," the report continued. 
''A new decision implying that in Abandoning the numerical goals 1977 this nation has reached a state which are part of such programs of progress sufficient to justify the "would shut out many thousahds of abandonment of any significant minority students and minority and component of affirmative action women workers from opportunities programs would have disastrous that have only recently become consequences," the commission available to them," the commission said. asserted. 
Art Gallery features rare French photographs 
Rare photographs of French life and culture at the turn of the century will be exhibited during the month of October in the Art Gallery. The one-man traveling works of Eugene Atget, pioneer catalogeur, are part of the collec­tion of the George Eastman House of Photography. 
Atget, born in 1856, did not begin working as a photographer until he was 40 years old. Using cumbersome equipment and work­ing in the early light of dawn when the streets were deserted, Atget photographed both the elegant side of Parisian life and its back alleys. 
The 40 original prints on display at Notre Dame record the city's cultural treasures, the wealthy neighborhoods and rich architec­tural details, the fashionable parks, as well as the store windows and homes of its working class. 
The photographer has been called primitive because of old­fashioned techniques and equip­ment and the apparent naivete of his approach. The honesty of his works and the clarity of their details, however, exhibit a quiet eloquence and a complex and sophisticated vision. 
He died in 1927, unexhibited and unpublished, and his works were rescued from obscurity by Berneice Abbott, an American photographer who recognized his talents. 
Also onexhibit at Notre Dame, where gallery hours are 10 a.m. to S p.m. weekdays and 1 to 5 p.m. weekends, are photographs from the West and Southwest, Pre­Columbian sculpture and textiles from the permanent collection, Art Faculty works, and Amnesty Inter­national Posters. 



Sir Victor's Discount Liquor 


413 Hickory Rd. S. Bend 
Beer Specials 
QUARTS: BUSCH 5.99 case STROH'S 6.25 case 
CANS: STROH'S 120z 5.19 case FALSTAFF 12 oz. 4.79 case 
Lowest Beer Prices in Town! 
Special Uquor Discounts to NO -SMC students Call ahead for uanti orders -288-9731 

----------------------------------------...-------~ ---~--~--~ 11 
VVednesday, Ck1ober 12, 1977 the observer 5
'Who Should Play God; 

Biological revolution called greatest in history 
Q s 
To in1nxhx'e }00 to our new &ruty Sam we offer )0.1 ~ 
SALE PRICES! 
on nationally advertised 
Permanent Waves 
(all includ~ sl"!ampoo, set and shaping} 
sized, the genetic studies should be 
controlled. 
Such scientific breakthroughs as 
recombinant DNA will give men 
the future option of controlling the 
evolution of themselves and other 
forms of life, Howard stated. In 
recent experiments, scientists have 
studied DNA structure, synthe­
sized individual cells, regulated 
cell sizes, and fused cells of 
different species. Such studies are 
''as significant, ifnot more so, than 
the splitting of the atom," he 
added. 
"It all adds up to the awesome 
truth that if we can't create new life 
now, we're standing on the thresh­
hold,'' Howard stressed, ''The 
question is, who will control this? 
Genetic engineering is a highly 
centralized process, and someone 
will have to run it." 
Quoting scientists including Dr. 
Joseph Fletcher, University of Vir­
ginia School of Medicine, and Dr. 
George Wall, Nobel prize winner 
and retired Harvard biology profes­
sor, and such periodicals as Science 
Magazine, published by the Na­
tional Academy of Sciences, How­
ard explained that bioengineering 
creates the possibility of building a 
better human race "out of the 
chemicals that make us up." 
However, Howard warned, "I do 
not think we can discover such 
great truths and not take the 
responsibility for their implica· 
tions." 
If genetic study moves from experimental progress to actual performance, specifications for an improved human will emerge. "Who will set the specifications? What are some of the wilder fantasies of genetic engineers?" Howard asked. Commenting on the "marvelous diversity" of body types and racial backgrounds in the audience, he added, "What is a 'better' human being?" 
Howard speculated on the future use of genetics. With the develop­ment of such methods as cloning and artificial insemination, "sex, as a technique for reproduction, is becoming outmoded," he remark­ed. 
As an example, he cited the following future possibility: After a baby's birth, genetic material could be removed, followed by the child's sterilization. A committee would watch the child's growth and note its physical and social characteris­tics. Ifthese traits were considered acceptable for future individuals, the original genetic material would be preserved for later reproduc­tion. If the traits were not suitable, the genes would be destroyed. 
According to Howard, cloning, the process of using a single body cell to reproduce itself into an entire individual, could provide vast medical possibilities. "Since a clone would be the identical image of a person, the two would have a free exchange of organs with no danger of rejection,'' he explained. 
After citing the pro's and con's 
ONS 

of bioengineering, Howard admit-done to you genetically?" ted, "When laboratory technology Howard has investigated genetic is combined with the raw know-engineering and recombinant DNA ledge of genetic makeup, the result with Jeremy Rifkin, PBC directory, is very powerful." Emphasizing to testify before a House subcom­that a genetic society "is not only a mittee on Health and the Environ­possibilitybut inevitable" in Amer-ment. His lecture was sponsored ica, he concluded, "I put it to you. by the Student Union Academic What would you be willing to have Commisssion. 

'-------.:..~ 
Your Source for the Unusual in Diamonds and Precious Gems Platinum and Gold Jewelry 
You'll find untold treasures of the finest quality brought to you by the eye of an expert.* 
And sold with the care of a professional.* \ 
Insurance appraisals and purchases of fine diamonds and estate jewelry provided. 
'Graduate Gemologist: Gemological Institute of America *Fellow Gemmologist: Gemmolog1cal Associat1on of Great Br1tain 
* B A.: lnd1ana University 
Lobby St. Joseph Bank Building South Bend, Indiana Telephone: 287-1427 
John M. Marshall's 


CDlamond 9mpo!tt Co£11pan~ 
Your Source for tfle Unusual 
....

....... -.. 
-
-


A Comedy of Errors 
Shakespeare's merry masquerade. Odober 7, 8, 13, 14, 15 
at 8:00p.m. 

All seats $2.50O'Laughlin ($2 Std-Fac-Staff} Phone: 284-417 6 
Auditorium 
by Marian Ulicny Senior Staff Reporter 
"We're in the midst of the greatest revolution of human histo­ry, the biological revolution, "Ted Howard, People's Business Com­mission (PBC) member, told an audience of 100 last night in the Library auditorium. 

In his lecture, "Who Should Play God?,'' Howard discussed the implications of genetic engineer­ing in modern society. According to the self-styled "political activ­ist," in the last 25 years, "our knowledge reg~trding the essence of life, the gene, has just exploded, and we're getting to the stage where we can apply thi~ knowledge socially. "However, he empha-

Jerusalem [AP]·The Israeli cabinet 
accepted ''without any dissenters 
or reservations" a new U.S. propo­
sal for reconvening a Middle East 
peace conference at Geneva, Cabi­
net Secretary Arish Naor said last 
night. 
Prime Minister Menahem Begin 
said of the cabinet meeting: 'The 
decision was unanimous." 
Naor said the text of the U.S. proposal, known as a "working paper," would not be published in order to avoid undermining prog­ress during current negotiations. the working paper now goes to the Arab countries for their considera­tion. 
"The government approves the working paper on suggestions for the resumption of the Geneva peace conference," Noar said. It already had been agreed upon by President Carter, Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance and Israeli Foreign Minister Moshe Dayan. 
Dayan, who carried the U.S. proposal to Israel Tuesday after his two-week visit to the United States, told reproters before the 4%-hour cabinet meeting that he had recom­mended its acceptance. 

Minutes after the cabinet meet­ing ended, a top Israeli Foreign Ministry official informed the Unit­ed States of the Israeli govern­ment's action. 
Girl Scouts need volunteers 
The Girl Scouts of Singing Sands Council is offering opportunities to work with girls in Spanish Ameri­can, Black or American Indian troops in low-income areas or migrant camps in the South Bend area. 
Adult volunteers are needed to serve as leaders, assistants, and special project consultants. These positions entail a few hours a week and are often related to coursework in several departments. Training is provided. 
Those interested should write to: Project Director, Girl Scouts of Singing Sands, 1635 N. Ironwood Drive, South Bend, IN 46635, orcall Gloria Herron or Jan Marshall at 277-0900. 
SEASON TICKETS STILL AVAILABLE.•.••••..•••...•••.. 
4 PLAYS $9 ($7 Std-Fac-Staff) Includes: COMEDY OF ERRORS, CAUCASIAN CHALK CIRCLE, TOUCH OF A POET, and THE MIKADO 

notre dame student union & sunshine promotions 
presents 

introducing 
The Norton Buffalo Stampede FRIDAY, OCTOBER 21 8:00PM Notre Dame ACC 
Tickets: $8.00, $7.00 All Seats Reserved on sale now at the ACC box office & the student union box office 
! • 
; 
J 
! 
,
. 

Reg. 23.50 Perm Now 14.50 Reg. 30.00 Perm --Now 17.50 Reg. 35.00 Penn Now 19.50 Uni Penn Reg. 35.00-Now 25.00 
Our styled precision cuts are 7.so (Above prices do not apply to Miss Sue. manager} . 
Tues: & Weel. 8 :30 AM to 5 :30 PM Thurs. & Fri. 8 :30 AM to 8:30 PM Sat. 8:30 AM to 5:00 PM -Closed Mon. 
233-8471 
240 Rue de Ville, Part< Jefferson, French 
Quarter Only 3 minutes from Town and Country Shopping Center 

' 
One Hundred Percent 
Two weeks ago, the students of Notre Dame and St. Mary's united with members of tlie South Bend community to protest a cut-back in state funds for the mentally disabled. Members of the state budget oommittee were angrily advised to reexam­ine their priorities and to visit logan Center to witness the wonderful accomp­lishments of the programs their action would curtail. 
The concern demonstrated by many, including students from ND-SMC, was a key factor in restoring state funds for the mentally handicapped. Valuable programs such as those at Logan Center will continue to operate largely because enough people showed their support. 
This week students are being asked to support a number of deserving programs
t 
through the United Way campaign. Each
l 
year the fate and effectiveness of organiza­tions such as the Boy Scouts, the Red Cross and the American C~cerSociety are determined in large part by the success of the United Way drive. We have all been witnesses to .the important accomplish­ments of at least some of these programs: Many of us were in scouting or took part in YMCA and YWCA activities; we have seen films and pictures of disaster victims being sheltered, clothed and fed through the Red Cross; some of us have friends or relatives who are fighting cancer and alcoholism. 
All of these causes depend on United Way funds for support. 
The goal of this year's campus campaign is 100 percent participation by the student body. In the past, the United Way has quoted a figure and hoped that more generous students would take up the slack for those who did not contribute. This year the organizers are challenging everyone to examine his or her priorities, to reflect on the goals and accomplishments of United Way programs, and to contribute some­thing "from the heart." 
It is one thing to not take negative action, as Gov. Bowen did in not cutting funds for the mentally handicapped. But how much more difficult and challenging-­and more deserving of merit--it is to take a positive stand and support it in a tangible way. 
The United Way campaign will continue through next Monday. Seek out your hall chairperson or your section leader and "make it work for all of us." 

P.O. Box· Q 

Rationingimportant 
papers 

Dear Editor: Notre Da~e has once again
t 
I expressed its grave concern over 
,· 
the well-being of its children--this
\ 
time from an unexpected corner. Joseph O'Brien, Asst. Athletic 1-Director (most unexpected!), re­
f 
I 
vealed in Friday's Observer the serious threat to the health of fans \ at home football games that flying rolls of toilet paper pose. Envis­aging crushed hairdos and exten­sive micro-bruises, administrators are designing plans to ration toilet paper at one roll per student per week. Students with excess at the end of the week will be allowed to sell it to those in need at a fair f market value. Exploiters will be f suspended. Should a section ( ·~ become frivolous and make airborn the dangerous projectiles (Remem­
~ 
ber: ND does not use White ~ Ooud!), resulting in a shortage, as f F one top administrator put it with ai fatherly snicker, "They'll learn the 

l 
OOONESBURV 
. ,. 
,( 
'.~ 
( 
·t{ 
i 
I i 
f 
f 

hard way.'' Of course, local retailers will be forbidden the right to sell papers to ND students. 
All praise Notre Dame, the keeper of my body and my soul! But never stagnation--what is next on the horizon? 
On the word of reliable inside sources, the administration is tak­ing steps to control the dangerous blast waves created by people sneezing in public. One possible solution: lntranostril mufflers. 
Robert Jacques 

Police use restraint 
Deu Editor: 
This is in response to the following statement made by the South Bend police's chief of de­tectives in The Observer of Oct. 3: 
"It is important to work with University agencies because they are really in charge when It comes to campus rapes," he said, adding "We don't want to force OUI'Selves on anyone." 
Chief Molnar, the women of Notre Dame and St. Mary's apprec­iate the restraint and example of the South Bend police. Would-be rapists, take note! 
Name withheld by request 
Caring about 
members 
Dear Editor: 
We urge the University of Notre Dame not to lay off its grounds crew. The University should recognize the right of its workers to bargain collectively and be recognized. It should recognize the rights of its workers to be repre­sented by a labor union. It should recognize the dignity of its work­
ers. 
What is the meaning of the "Notre Dame Family" when it fails to care about its members (who also have families) and gets rid of them by simply firing them, laying them off, or "contracting out?" What about human rights for the grounds crew? 
Ricardo Parra and 
nineteen other students, faculty, 
staffand administrators 
Free 
and simple 
Dear Editor: 
How wonderful to be Mr. David L. Cwik And know what not to know. How fortunate to be Mr. Cwik And free to say so. 
Think of those charming women, The ones Mr. Cwik enjoys. Intelligent, attractive, vivacious, They make him one of the boy•. 
The ~ople who read The Observer Need give the matter no thought. A prophet lives in our midst, A man who knows natunl from not. 
Eager to share his wisdom, Mr. Cwik is most benevolent. He defines the nature of freedom And explains behavior .tee.dtmt. 
Is it possible his genius goes further? Beyond how to read and to mate? Alas, we should be ready for woaclen From a man with knowlege so great. 
Daniel Burr 

*The Observer ~ 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary'., 
The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. It does n9t necessarily reflect the policies of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board Commentaries, opinions and letters are the views of their authors_ Column space is available to all members of the community, and letters are encouraged to promote the free expression of varying opinions on campus 
EDITORIAL BOARD 
Marti Hogan Editor-in-Chief Martha Fanning Managing Editor Bob Brink Asst. Managing Ed. Kathy Mills Executive Editor Maureen Flynn Editorial Editor Barb Breitenstem Exec. News Editor jean Powlev St Mary's Editor Katie Kerwin News Editor Barb Langhenry News Editor Paul Stevenson Sports Editor Pat CoiP Special Projects Ed. David O'Keefe Features Editor 
Wednesday, October 12, 1977 
opinion~~~~~~~~~ 
Are These Values? 
As a member of the class of 1978, I have been informed that I must take a course dubbed "Values Seminar'' in order to leave this place with a diploma. Isn't this kind of thing unjust? Not necessarily, says the University administration; when those values concern themselves with the sanctity of human life they may well be worth the effort. This University has just given its student body a taste of the values it apparently deems worthy of being forced down students' throats. 
Monday, Oct. lOth's Observer headlined the university's plans "to permanently lay off 21 ground­skeepers effective Nov. 1." This action neatly eliminates the possib­ility of representation for the workers by the Teamsters Local 
364. As explained by a University official, the move to contract the groundskeeping out to an outside firm is the result of a well-thought­out decision to automate the groundskeeping of this campus, rather than a reaction to the attempted unionization. 
I think it's rather obvious the man is lying, made even more apparent by his choice to remain anonymous. 
Hopefully his conscience will deal with him: Meanwhile, I ask you simply to evaluate the implications of this administrative decision. Value Seminar begins a semester early! 
Let's believe this official, that the layoffs have been motivated strictly 
Sorry, we don't Iive at home 
Dear Editor: 
As remaining members of the Sorin 7, we feel qualified to comment on the University's pro­posed addition to du Lac ·concern­ing regulation of off-campus life. We were transferred off-campus last year for "playing loud, rowdy music at odd hours and constant drunkeness." At that time, Dean Roemer was quoted in The Obser­ver as saying, "This type of behavior belongs off campus.'' But now they want the power to regulate off-campus "alcohol a­buse, marijuana, and premarital sex." We can't believe this to be legal, but if we can't continue to do these things in ~ur own home 
by the desire to improve the quality of the campus grounds. This man, as a representative of ·the University and its president, Fr. Hesburgh, has made a value judgement: it is more important ''to do the work a hell of a lot more efficiently" (how articulate these Universtty officials are!) using more machines and less manpower than to have the work continue to be done by 21 individuals, most of whom I'd have to guess could find little work elsewhere. We are talking about human lives here, their sanctity, and their right to work. This is a value judgement between machine and man. It 
concerns a choice of whether or not 
to tamper with human lives. 
Fr. Hesburgh, Mr. Human Rights himself, as the president of the University, apparently sanctions this action. Last year he agreed that "values" were to be thrown at seniors in what appeared to be a post-Watergate attempt to add moral undertones to the ''Notre Dame Mystique", Now he is beginning to define exactly what he calls "values", not attempting in the least to hide his hypocrisy. Personally, I will resist to the fullest any attempt to put me in a class where putting people in unemployment lines is valued over having them work. 
Editor's Note: The values seminar will not be required of this year's senior class. 

without worrying about N.D. Se­curity surrounding the house, then what is sacred anymore? They may be our "parents," but we don't live at "home" anymore. 
RJchHohman 
JeffBarlleU 
Pat MUI'Dane 

...but why Teamsters? 
Dear Editor: 
We, the undersigned, complete­ly support the groundskeepers in their efforts to keep their jobs and improve their conditions. 
BLit why in the hell do they want the Teamsters? 
John Rooney, Jr. 
Rick Dvllanty 
Orest Deycbaldwsky 

P.S. Where's Jimmy_ Hoffa? 

VVednesday, Ckiober 12, 1977 the observer 
7 

An,, Intellectual Thing 
The informal atmosphere and well chosen shows make the Isis visit well worth the study detour. Enter the fieldhouse
Joan luttmer 
through the double doors marked with "University Arts Center," that are on the 

You have probably looked twice at the east side of the building. Take the first "Alan Larkin" print exhibit posters hang­hallway to the left and you've arrived. ing in O'Shaugnessy. You may have even Until October 14, the prints by Alan taken one back to the dorm to hang next to Larkin will be featured. Larkin currently the football schedule. So much for art you teaches at Indiana University in South concede. But art is alive and well and Bend. Fresh from Penn State's graduate living in the fieldhouse. Besides the school he had the good fortune to be hired potters wheels and painting stuios, the by IUSB after they saw his work at the fieldhouse boasts Isis, the student gallery. College Art Association conference last 
The first Isis show this year presents the year. His undergrad work was done at graphics of Alan Larkin. It opened last Carlton College, in Minnesota. Carlton's Thrusday informally with Notre Dame program stresses printmaking but early i students wanderingthroughon their way to influences in graphic technique came from the library. The Notre Dame Art faculty home. Alan's father, Eugene and brother, I stopped in and brought their children. At Andy, print etchings and lithographs. I this particular opening IUSB professors Eugene Larkin teaches art at the Universtiy I and students stopped and congratulated of Minnesota. Larkin on the show. The artist himself, in Besides the strong predeliction towards l vest and suit pants welcomed his friends. graphics from his father, Alan Larkin cites I Billy Hassell, Isis director and Kathy influences from Holbien and Degas. For I Robinson, reception committee have home­Larkin "art is an intellectual thing" with ~ made bread and cheese ready at the involvement and complexity. That philos­opening. ophy rules out simple compositions and 
Melancholy Girl 1 


.***************A 14-*** *************************A***-•.._ 
Lyndon Johnson Bared His Scars 
Young's earlier work with Crazy Horse, though it explores no ground that Young hasn't ventured into before.
Bryan Gruley 

Young's talent for the production of commercially­appealing Neil Young emerges again with "Like a 
This album sees the collision of two of Neil Young's 
Hurricane," a simple rock jam that displays the raw most closely held idiosyncracies: that he likes to make improvisational style of Young and his Crazy Horse his music natural and often really terrible sounding, band. "Will to Love," somewhat less commercial but and that, despite his constant pleadings to art and as poorly produced as "Like a Hurricane," is non-commerciality, he still knows how to make a hit nevertheless a moving number that accentuates 
song. Harvest lovers, rejoice. Young's position as the searching romantic. Much of Young's musical prowess is somewhat limited, one side ofthe album, chronologically the most recently 
especially when it comes to singing. But this has been recorded side, is country flavored, featuring both violin part sincere in his claims to attempt the creation of art. and slide guitar. "Saddle Up the Palomino," Young's His singing here is characteristically scratchy and sarcastic treabnent of an extramarital affair, and "Bit offkey, but this lends to the despairing tone Young the Bullet," a song that sounds straight out of invariably infuses into his songs. Linda Ronstadt and Everybody Knows This Is Nowhere, highlight this side. EmmyLou Harris lend their voices on a few of the cuts, Though posterity may not bequeath it the distinction said time and again and yet Young remains a dominant of "legendary" on the Neil Young album list, Amerlcaa figure in the folk-rock realm. American Stars 'n' Bus Stan '•' Ban certainly deserves the consideration doesn't do much to quiet critics of Young's musical accorded earlier efforts. While some may find Young's talents, but it does evidence. that Young is for the most musicianship again unsatisfactory, his fans can be glad 
adding some fullness and depth to Young's rather for the familiar energy exuded by Young and the sparse voicings. The guitar-here is very reminiscent of omnipresent Crazy Horse. 
NODDY-======-~--.=---=---
:::=:===:==:===;=:==::::::::::::======:JIM CANAVAN 
PZ.L 5£ t?/{e..f-1 
' 


•AF7lfil: -,-,.." 
w'~~~vl! 
Fllr'-44'I (Ypr 

minimal art. Larkin's media include pastel, intaglio processes, lithography, charcoal, and pen­
cil. Subjects range from The Plague of I.ocusts to Abstracted Ftgare Compo­sitions. It is almost a ''something for everyone show.'' he acknowledges realis­tic, objective art in his pencil studies and portraits, notably Small Porlndt of Susan. 
Other prints are evidenced by a more stylized technique. The color lithograph, Girl Writing a Letter seems to reflect a woodcut in the drawing of the figure. The stylistic montage continues with the Abs­
Judy's Room 

stracted Figure Compositions. These three Abstract Figure Compositions are execu­ted in charcoal and are composed of organic shapes in high contrast. But generally each piece was unrelated to the next with no obvious progression. 
Larkin explained his direction is towards the nuance and abstraction of ''The Wasteland". The subtle techniques he displays in that etching are mirrored in the delicate six color litho, The Creation of the World 'Ibrough Ught. That particular litho, and Melancholy Girl, highlight a diverse and puzzling show. 
Visit Isis and judge for yourself the craft and art of Alan Larkin. Hopefully he'll be returning to Isis for a joint show with his father and brother. Other upcoming shows include sculpture for a joint show with his father and brother. Other upcoming shows include sculpture by Rob Lipnick, work from the graduate students in photography and visiting photographer, Rod Larzorik. Watch also for films and slide shows in Isis, the student gallery . 

the observer VVednesday, Ck1ober12, 1977 
Toohey faults Bishops report 
by Kevin Walsh Senlor Staff Reporter 
Fr. William Toohey, director of Campus Ministry, has taken excep­tion to a recent Newsweek article in which the International Synod of Bishops expressed fear that there exists ''a lost generation of Catho­lic youths who have drifted away by the millions from the Pope's flock." 
Citing recent Gallop poll findings which reveal that in the past few years, ''there has been a resur­gence in religion, especially among young adults," Toohey delcared that there is a startling amount of interest and faith in religion among young people today. 
Conversely, members of the synod, held last week in Rome, noted the decline in formal reli­gious instruction; confusion, am­biguity, and hostility within the church; and "the collapse of tradi­tional neighborhood and family bonds" as the reasons why indus­trialized countries are experiencing an alarming exodus by youth from the Church. 
The bishops, however, ignored studies by sociologist Fr. Andrew Greeley which found that the papal encyclical denouncing contracep­tion was a cause of youth dissen­tion. 
Although Catholic youth still have a strong belief in God, Toohey admitted that many have not received an adequate religious education. According to Toohey, "church leaders seem tragically uninformed about what is needed in religious education. They fail to appreciate the fact that the thrust 

LAWYER'S ASSISTANT ... 
a challenging new career for college graduates. 
An intensive 12 week course offered
i(j 
by the 

UNIVERSITY OF SAN DIEGO
so in cooperation with the National 
Center for Paralegal Training 
• 
Specialties offered in the following fields: Litigation 

Corporations Estates, & Real Estate Trusts & Wills 

• 
ABA Provisional Approval 

• 
Clinical Internship 



For a free brochure please send the following to: 
UNIVERSITY OF SAN DIEGO Room 318, Serra Hall Lawyer's Assistant Program San Diego, CA 92110 
i n2 (714) 291-6480 Ext. 247 
Name___·-------·-· ·------------­
Address 

State________ Zip_____
--·----·--­

Spring 1978 -Day 0 Phone_________ 
Feb. 13 -May 5 

Spring 1978 · Evening 0 Fall 1978 -Day 0 
March 21 · Sept. 2 Sept. 25 -Dec. 16 
Summer 1978 · Day 0 Fall 1978 · Evening 0 
June 12 ·Aug. 25 Sept. 19 · March 10 
COlPON 
\ 
\ 
\ 
of attention must be on affording 
people an experience of encounter­
ing the living God through personal 
relationships with committed 
Christians who become channels 
for the redeeming influence of the 
Lord.'' 
Toohey also faults church leaders with the failure to recognize that a 
Bryant concert not political 
by AI Leverone 
Anita Bryant's scheduled concert 
Oct. 27 at the ACC should be 
treated no differently from the 
appearance of any other act, accor­
ding to Joseph Sassano, assistant 
director of the ACC. 
Sassano made it clear that the 
concert, which is part of Bryant's 
national tour, is not to be affiliated 
with the University itself in any 
way. "The policy concerning Miss 
Bryant is the same as it is for the 
appearance of Steve Miller or any 
other artist, '' the assistant director 
said. 
Sassano noted that the ACC 
management's objective is to book 
dates to help pay for the expensive 
facility. Miss Bryant's political or 
religious views were not a consider­
ation in the decision to rent the 
center, he said. 
The event is being sponsored by 
a Michigan City-based promoter, 
Roy Anderson. According to 
Sassano, Anderson went through 
the normal procedure of requesting 
an available date. The ACC then 
granted permission for the use of 
the facility on Oct. 27. 
According to Sassano, Bryant's · strong position on the issue of gay . rights is not a factor in her 
appearance because the appear­
ance is not a political one. 
critical level of focus must also be on adult education if children are to obtain a proper religious education. ''The primary teachers of faith are the parents," stated Toohey. He noted that peer groups and reli­gious involvement were secondary sources of learning. 
Fr. James Burtchaell agreed with Toohey. In his opinion, "The most important age to which reli­gious education has to be directed is adulthood. The reason young people are uncommitted to the Church is not poor catechisms, but the disinterest of their elders, who for some time have not believed in Jesus Christ firmly enough to want to ensure that their children do." 
Fr. Robert Griffin, University Chaplain, is also concerned about this lack of faith mentioned by Burtchaell. According to Griffin, ''Great impersonalness in parish worship has led people to feel alienated." He went on to say, ''The large weekly church gather­ings where the priest tries to reach people's needs no longer works. The priest, in attempting to reach everybody, actually speaks to no­body." 
Griffin also worries how the faith can be conveyed in classes where it is judged by impulsive, emotional concerns rather than careful analy­zation of its actual religious con­tent. He cited as an example the instance of a high school theology class in which Salinger's Catcher in the Rye is required reading. Too­hey confirmed Griffin's belief by saying, "People must embrace the content of faith. Faith is little more than a hollow structure built on sand unless it involves a commit­ment.'' 
Bishops at the synod stated that the breakdown of the nuclear family and close community ties has adversly effected the parent's interest and ability to stimulate religious involvement in youth. 
According to Richard Lamanna, Associate Professor of Theology, it is true that the change in family structure has been a factor in the problems that the Church faces. "The sharp increase in divorce, separations, and illegitimate births can't help but have an effect in the participation of all institutions," claimed Lamanna. 
Lamanna continued, ''The incon­sistencies and confusions within the church as well as the drift away from meeting formal requirements has. also caused problems within the Church.'' 
To remedy the problem of educa­ting Catholics, Toohey remarked, ''The cognitive must be accompani· ed by the experimental, or people, young and old, will continue to know a lot of information about God without ever really knowing God in a personal, intimate way. This is necessary for authentic, biblical faith." 
Helen of Troy contest begins 
A "Helen of Troy" contest spon­sored by Student Union begins today and wfll run through next Tuesday. The object of the contest is to find where Helen is hidden through clues given on WSND-AM and in the "Personal" section of the Observer. 
The winner will receive a Home­coming package, first runner-up will be awarded a $20 gift certificate from River City Records, while third-prize winners will get Miller beer T-shirts and posters. 

Time capsule contents amusing 
''Young Americans spend precious little time thinking about how they can be packaged for future reference," write the editors of Ufe Special Report's fall 1977 edition on ''The New Youth.'' But
·-· --· --­

We Welcome All Students to the KNIGHTS! 

ring is back See the complete display at the Saint Mary's College Bookstore 
Ask For Balfour 

0 d Oct 17& 18 f X d I• 
one feature of the Life special -a' full spread collage showing the contents of a time capsule collected by high school students · reveals that given the chance, this gener­ation can "package" themselves in a way that is both revealing and amusing. · 

The contents of the time capsule, theoretically to be opened in 20 years, is the result of Ufe poll of the senior class of Highland Park High School outside Chicago. The editors hoped that the students' selections would provide some insight into "the true texture and flavor of the fads and fashions of today's young." In fact, the capsule's contents do convey an interesting picture of the lifestyle of teenage America ·-and a distinct "flavor" of junk fook: 
The largest number of future artifacts were articles of clothing, reflecting the casual ambience of today's teenage culture. For footware, the students chose Frye boots. sandals. sneakers and plat­form shoes. Their basic wardrobe consists of blue jeans, painter's pants, T-shirts and a down vest. The accessories they favor are rings, bracelets, gold chains, re­ligious necklaces and --in a concession to technology --a digital watch. 

The next group of '70s memor· abilia could be loosely categorized as "entertainment." It includes a frisbee, tickets to concerts by Led Zeppelin and Paul McCartney, a stereo set (but no records), a stack of magazines (Mad, Rolling Stone, Seventeen, IDgh Times, Glamour, Ebony and Pickup, Van and 4WD), and drug paraphenalia such as cigarette papers, a hashish pipe and an Asian-style water pipe. 
Proving that the high school generation travels on its stomach, food ran a close third. Into the capsule go a Big Mac, a bottle of 
beer,  some  frozen  yogurt and  a  
pack of bubble gum.  
A few  other  items  such  as  a  
pickup truck,  a  CB  radio and  a  

poster of Farrah Fawcett-Majors defy classification, but the col­lection is as interesting for what is missing from it as for the articles it contains. "No one," say the Ufe editors, "even suggested that a musical instrument be included, and books were likewise rejected." 
The youth of 1997 will find no evidence of political commitment in the time capsule either, only a backhanded swipe at bureaucracy: a No. 2 pencil needed for filling out today's innumerable forms. 

~---------------~
1 
CONEY DOG 96c \ 
I one per customer per visit I! thru Oct. 16 1977 I
•-----------------1I 
,_. -I 
-uolfn Suds@!
J ·I
I 
I 

We make a lot of things better. I 
Texas Burger • Charco Burger • Coney Dog • Tenderloin • 
I 

. southaberi~i ~~::n&ch~sdison I 
~---------------' 


VVednesday, Ckjober12, 1977 the observer 
9 

Student Government organizes 'cash reserve' 
by Jerry Perez 

Five thousand dollars of unallocat­ed funds, shown in this year's Student Government budget as the strategic cash reserve (SCR), will "serve students more prudently and discourage short-run misman­agement of money,'' according to 
J.P. Russel, chairman of Hall President's Council. The SCR was proposed by Russel and adopted by the Student Government Board of 
Commissioners during  the  recent  
allocation  of  funds  to  various  
student organizations.  

Russell stated that the reserve provides a certain flexibility to the budget. "Without it," he remark­ed, ''there would be an extreme dependence oneverythingthat was budgeted. The SCR makes it possible to provide for unforeseen student needs. Now worthwhile projects not specifically mentioned 
Cost: $200 million 
Toll Road needs, updating 
GARY, Ind. [AP] -State taxpay­ers may end up footing a $200 million bill to bring the Indiana Toll Road up to federal specifications in the next decade, the chairman of the toll road commission says. 
In addition, says chairman James T. Robison, unless state law is changed, Hoosiers may end up paying a $5 million annual main­tenance bill for the 156-mile high­way, which stretches across the northern part of the state. And that Robison said, is unfair because the road is used mostly by out-of-state commercial vehicles. 
The federal part of the problem stems from an agreement by the toll road commission 15 years ago to no longer sell revenue bonds after being given $1.5 million federal grant for linking the toll road to Interstates 65, 94 and 69. 
State law also requires that tolls no onger be charged after the original $280 million bond that funded the highway is retired. 
No state tax money is now spent on the toll road. The bond is being retired -and maintenance financed -from toll revenues, and Robison said increased traffic may allow the bond to be paid off in 1984, instead of the original 1994 target year. That means the maintenance problem may confront the state a full ten years sooner than expected. 
The situation is complicated by federal regulations that may force the toll road commission to spend $200 million to make the highway eligible to officially become part of the federal system. The biggest single expense would be about 14 new interchanges, Robison said., but the regulations also require widening lanes and bridges. 
If the money can't come from a bond issue, the construction will have to be funded from state tax dollars, Robison said. 
"For $1.5 million, they really seem to be making us jump through hoops," Robison, a Frank­fort lawyer, said. "For this small amount, they now try to tell us what we can do with it. We've tried to pay the money back so we can again control our own road, but they won't permit us to do this." 
Robison said the state highway system simply can't afford to take 
over  the  cost of maintaining the  
highway  of  building  new  inter­ 
changes.  

"When you tell the state you are about to dump that much money into their budget, they just aren't interested," Robison said. "I think it would be very unfair to have state taxpayers footing the bill for some-in the budget could be pulled off.'' 
Student Government Treasurer Pete Tobben explained that the existence of the strategic cash reserve is due to a $25000 increase in allocable funds. Instead of directly allocating all the money, the Board of Commissioners decid­ed to create the reserve "should anything come up." 
Russell outlined several reasons for the SCR. According to him, the reserve will prevent unauthorized spending. If it is noted, he explained, that an organization cancels a project or strays from its proposed intentions, that organiza­tion's funds may be revoked and deposited in the SCR. Russell noted that the additional authority thus conferred on the Student Government treasurer allows for a tighter budget. 
The SCR, RusselJ added, will also prevent automatic spending. 
thing that mostly benefits Iout-of­ing toll roads. The maintenance state people." problem might be solved by convin­Robison said the best solution cing the legislature to allow lower tolls to be coJlected when the
would be for the federal govern­
construction bond is paid off, he

ment to change its policies concern-
said. 
He pointed out that all funds 
provided by student activity fees 
need not be allocated indiscrimin­
ately or at one time. Why encourage excessive spending? 
There is no reason for doling out funds when there is no real use for 
them," he observed. 
Tobben emphasized that the availability of extra funds does not necessarily mean they will be allocated. "It's possible that the reserve will remain untouched and 
1 
added to next year's funds," he said. 
Russell noted that the revenues accumulated over the years could finance "major outlays of cash." · He cited as an example the $20,000 allocated from last year's operating budget to buy Student Union refrigerators. He suggested that the strain on the budget might have been prevented if funds like those in the SCR had been available. 

'The SCR is simply wise financial management,'' Russell summariz­ed. 
Both Russell and Tobben indica­ted the renovation of LaFortune as a possible use of extra funds. Both stressed that the money is not intended for bailing out organiza-
TheNowPrinters™ 
eighborhood
·-----· ,. ....... -· 

FAST PRINTING 
·resumes ~term papers • flyers 
•

announcements • transparencies 
-

on U.S. 31 one block south of Wendy's 
5 minutes from campus 277-3355 

PLAYBOY'S FIRST COLLEGE BASKETBALL PREVIEW 
Following our long and amazingly accurate tradition of pre-season college football predictions, this month's PLAYBOY debuts our first College Basketball Prevzew. A complete rundown of the teams and players most likely to excel in this season's battle of the campus backboards. Since your school is in the running, you'll want to check it out. Also in this issue: Billy Carter speaks out on beer, women and his brother, the President. A blood-curdling interview with ex-ldi Arnin health minister Henry Kyemba, Sex t'n Cz"nema, a so-you-think-you're-creative quiz, Bunmes of 77 and a whole lot more. All in November PLAYBOY. At newsstands now. 
tions who mismanage original 
funds. They recognized, however, 
that some organizations like the 
Cultural Arts Commission, through 
no fault of their own, traditionally 
lose money. "For commissions 
such as these, the reserve may be j 
useful," Tobben concluded. · I 
I 
l 
~ 
l I
we are 

l 
I 
j
happy 

I 
to be part of the 


@ 
.. -._ .... .... .' 

[continued from page 12] Rick Rhoden, the fifth Los Angeles pitcher. 
Rhoden walked Thurman Mun­son, who had doubled home what seemed to be the winning run four innings earlier. That brought up. Blair, who had replaced Reggie Jackson in right field in the ninth inning. 
Again, the Yankees tried to bunt, but Blair simply couldn't get the ball down. When the count went to 2-2, the veteran outfielder got the hit sign and that's exactly what he did, lining a pitch into left field to bring Randolph dashing home with the decisive run of this exciting game. 
It was the longest opening game in the World Series play and the tOOth Series triumph in Yankees history. Few of the first 99 could have been more dramatic. 
The Dodgers, trailing by a run going into the ninth, came back to tie the score on Lacy's pinch single against Lyle. Dusty Baker opened the Dodgers' ninth with a single to left, only the fifth hit against Gullett, who had pitched billliantly. On the first pitch to pinch hitter Manny Mota, Munson appeared to have Baker picked off on a misfired 
bunt attempt. 


10 

Notre Dame Student Union & Sunshine Present 
SATURDAY NOVEMBER 5 7:30pm 
NOTRE DAME A.C.C. 
·---­

All Seats Reserved; $8.50 & $7.50 
On sale now at: 

ACC box office, Student tidcet office, ADbertson's-S. Bend & Concord Mall, First Bank· Main Brandt only, St, Joe Bank & all branches, Boogie Records, Just For The Record, The Record Joint-Niles, The Bkhart Truth 
and Sus~ Co11JJ!1 t;lkha!i_ _____ _ 
Tonig t is _ Foxy lady Night! 

-
• 
$100 Cash to the Foxiest Lady 

• 
WRBR's R. C~ Rogers 

• 
Prizes 


-·--···-­

• Surprises 
SB 


IIITB CLUB 
On U.S. 31 between Niles and South Bend-Free Parking-Ph. 683-4350 
CONTINUOUS ENTERTAINMENT fROM 9 P.M. TILL 2 A.M. 
But Baker evaded the tags of first baseman Chris Chambliss in the rundown and scrambled safely back to first. It was a vital play because a moment later, Steve Yeager walked -moving Baker, the tying run, into scoring position. 
That finished Gullett, and Lyle ­
hero of the American League 

Lacrosse Club wins finale 
In weekend play, the Irish la­crosse team defeated the Chicago lacrosse club 11 to eight. The game began with a bleak outlook for the Irish as the Chicago team dominat­ed play for the first quarter. But the defense showed their amazing 
ability  as  they  allowed only  one  
goal.  
The  offense  adjusted  in  the  

second quarter and came on with a burst of four goals. They kept the lead for the rest of the game. In the third quarter the Irish came alive with six more tallies and built a 10-4 lead. Jim Scarola played an excellent game and led all scorers with four goals. Pat Clynes added a hat trick. 
Freshman Tim Michaels, while 
M91ED 

UlOCD 960 
$ 129. 2~~·!i, 
COMPLETE WITH BASE/ COVER/ CARTRIDGE WHILE QUANITIES LAST 
113 W. Colfax (near Morris Civic) 
288-1681 

12:30 -6 p~ _d~~ly 
il * Notre Dame Club of New York, Inc.
*** 

PRESENTS it 
~ ~ 
~ NOTRE DAME VS ARMY ~· 
-

.. Pre-game Party/Rally • ~­·~ Roosevelt Hotel ~ 
~ ~ : 46th and Madison Ave. N.Y. C. ~ 
~ Fri. Oct. 14, 1977 
* 
ir *ND Cheerleaders 
~ *Band : *Cash Bar 
._ *BagpipeiS 
i' *Raffle 
~ . 

~ Who's invited? 
~  and friends of Notre Dame  ~  
i(i( ~  (AMONG THE INVITED SPECIAL.GUESTS ARE: Father Joyce, Moose Krause, Col. Jack Stephens, Tim Ryan, Don Criqui, Joe Garagiola, Angelo Bertelli and many others.)  iriCiC  
~  s2 ND/SMC students with ID  ~  
~  *3 Everyone else .  ie  

*****1t14"11cA~A-fcdc***** A. A A lc lc*A lc lc J\ lc « 
Alumni, students ~ 
7pm to 11pm ~ 
i'~ i' ._ 
~ 
~ 
~ 


j Need ride to Cincinnati or vicinity, Yes Jim, Friday, Oct. 21. Share expenses. Jeff, Nobody likes to think about death, but 8994. who can afford not to? "If I should ------------------Die... " Sat. nite, Library Aud. 7 & 8:30 SAVE MY LOVE LIFEIIII Need three GA pm. USC tix for girlfriend and parents! Ca11 Gregg
Classif 
Rocco, 1386. -----------------­------------------Bob w., Need oneGA ticket to USC. Any price. If you have any beautiful girls left over 
LOST: One pair of ~i-focal glasses at pep Desperately need 1 usc ticket. Good$$. Call1043. from '"How's your Love pte" I'll take 
rally. Contact Kevm, 1391. Call Mike at 3119. ------------------them off your han_ds. Ill be at both Garage sale: Silver tea set, baby things,------------------------------------Wanted: One pair of footblL SHOES* shows. 7 & 8:30 Fnday. live plants, bicycle and bicycle parts, bed FOUND: 0 ne student football ticket Will pay big bucks for 2 good sc tixs. SIZE /? I 12-11. Tom. 8270. Bill M from Sorln frames, clothes, and many miscellaneous outside ·Rocco's. Call Observer to Mike 3693. -----------------------------------­
treasures! 9 am to 5 pm, Friday, Oct. 15 identify. __..:.._ _______________ Help! Desperately need 2-5 USC tickets. Chuck, at 52800 W. Cypreu Circle [In Greenbrier------------------Maryanne, 3887. P.K. lives!!! addition aff Cleveland Rd.). Every Item LOSTY: Black leather wallet in 'ACC. ------------------JJ 
priced to sell. Personal Items are important to owner. DESPERATELY NEED RIDE NORTH OF-----------------­------------------Please return, cal3116. CHICAGO SATURDAY OCT 15 AS Saturday Night Live-
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND ------------------Please-Need football tlx to any home ERALY AS POSSIBLE. CALL SUZY* Way to kick the habit-Congratulations. Student loans, ~20-150. One day walt. FOUND: Pair. of girl:s sho~s. at the DT game. Call 289-6255. 5361. WILL PAY$$. Keep her honest, M.J. One percenty mterest. Due In thirty section party m Mornssey Fnday night. ------------------------------------Kluckabear days. LaFortune basement, M-F, 11:15-Call 3414. DESPERATE: Need a ride to TALLA-Need 2 GA USC or Navy tickets.. Call -'7""---'7""------------;­
12:15. ------------------HASSEE ,area at start of Oct. Break. Randy, 8622. Th1s space 1s reseved for Dave Wood d ------------------FOUND: On sidewalk, 1976 Holy Cross Will share expenses and driving. Calf------------------very own personal. If an~one has any Gay community a~ Notre Dame guide ta Preparatory class ring. Call Denise, Bill 8858. . Wanted: Ride to Central NJ or close Ideas for It, contact 111 Sonn. ND-S.B. Pandora s or box 206, ND. 4-5402. ------------------before or after USC. Call Mark, 8785. -----------------­------------------------------------So. Cal vs. NO football tix Oct. 22 -------------------Chinaman-,Gay community of ND lnfollne Fri. and FOUND: ID bracelet. 256-0819. Please Sportsa Tour 3050 w 7th Street LA Wanted: Several young men to help with I 9uess you could say 'You've bought Sat. 10-12 pm. 8870. call to identify. Calif. 90005. 213-384:1951 will pay $s$.' a promotion. Cash pay-not door to door it. ' So sally ------------------------------------Also could use 4 tix for any home football selling. Contact Miss Eddie at the -LinguaAttention· Talenetd or otherwise persons LOST: Brown wallet In ACC raquetball games. · Knights. 272-0312 or 272-8471. -----------------­Interested in performing in the Nazz -court. Reward. Call Mark. 1723. . ------------------------------------Rich M, WE HAVE OPENINGS. Call1575 (John)------------------Help!! Desperate Damsel Direly Desires Help! Need ride to Pennsylvania Are all S.W.A.T. members as studley as for info. LOST: Brown leather wallet on Saturday, a ride to Boston-New England for break. (Villanova) for October break. Will pay. you?----.---~----------the 8th. If found, please call John at Will share expenses. Make like a hero. Pleasant company! 4-4107, 4-4336. Anita Bus serv1ce to Ch1cago every Friday this 3074. Reward. CALL Anna 8828. -----------------------------------­semester. Buses arrive at the circle at------------------------------------Brother and sister need ride to Cham-Mazzei, 
5:05. For tickets and info call Shep, 8330. LOST: Puppy on Fri. Oct. 7 near Nickle's. Need one ticket, student or GA to Air paign, Ill. area after USC game. Will .. Happy birthday from. S.W .A. T · .. ------------------Black w1th brown paws and white Force game. Please call 4-4809. share expenses. Call4-5181 or -1811. XX, Supportlng,lntenm, Sexual Girls! Organizational meeting for all marking on chest area Please call ------------------'----------------------------------­Interested In women's swim club, Thurs., 232-7457. · Need 2-4 GA tix for Army game at Wanted: 8 GA Navy tickets, together 11 Richard Mazzei. . Oct. 13, at 6:45 p.m. In Library ~udlt~----:---.---:----------.Meadow Lands. Call J m 1185. possible. Will pay$$. Call288-0952 after .Is Sal.go.nna g1ve you a bus dnver cap?
•. 
rlum. Questions, contact the Wo1men s FOUND: Sliver w1re rimed glasses ouf-· ------------------6 pm. . Jtm Phllbm? athletic Dept. or call8051. side the Huddle on Oct. 4. To claim them Need two GA tickets for Navy and Air---------------------------:---~-----­----------:---------calli Diane, 7883. Force. Call Claire. 28:1-6533. ~Y aunt the nun ~ill get Him on ~ur side Here's to Munch, .Little Tmy Tears, Now Logan volunteers and mterested students-----------------------------·--------1f she gets 2 GA tickets tor Georgia Tech; she can legally Dnnk her beers. 
Halloween dance this Wednesday night, LOST:National semiconducter calculater Wanted: 4 GA usc t {. Call Frank, Cal Bill-1762. -How 'Bout you Munch! Oct. 12, 7:30p.m. till 10:00 p.m. in the in O'Shag. Reward. Call 3336 or 3333. 287-3844. Pay top doll' . ------------------3/4 Odd Quad loga.n.caJeteria. Dress up in a. costume-------------------------------------Desperate! Ride needed to New England-----------------­and JOin m the fun. Any questions, call LOST: A ~avy blue Noter Dame wind· Need 2 USC GA's will pay $$$. Call or E. New York State _f~r break. Will Taml-.. Art Koebel (287-7509) or Jeanne Conboy brea~er. Lmed .. ~rand new. No name. Greg, 6863. share expenses, gas, dnvmg. Calli Mike Way to go Champ!! Now that ;enms IS {284-4391). Left 10 North Dmmg Hall .... call Frank-------------------8327. over, can we play some do~bles. 
-----------------3215. Need ride to Boston-PriJvidence area for ------------------love, J1mmy Connors NEED OUA~ITY TY~ING? ~xecutary, ------------------October break. Will pay·-drive. Call Pat, Wanted: 2 Female students to sublet-----------------­Inc., P~ofess1onai.Typmg Semces, IBM LOST: SMC 10 and other valuable items 4-4146. campus view apt. Call Kathey, 6781. T? Rob, Bob, and Marty Correctmg Selectncs. 85 cents per page at Kubiaks Friday Oct 7. If found please -------------------------------------Its a long way to hell!! minimum. C~ll 232-0898 "When you call JoAnne 4-5778. Reward$$. ' Desperately need 1 USC GA tix. Doug, ARE YOU A SKIER? Free skiing plus Kluckabear want the best. ------------------3333 or 3336. income. Become an lnstructer at the -----------------­------------------LOST: My sanity, somewhere between ------------------Royal Valley 'ski Resort only 12 miles Observer Typists· Acurate fast typing -Mrs. Donoho, the Notices and Lost and Found. If Ride needed for Oct. Break to washing-from Notre Dame. Attend meeting at mandatory meeting, Thursday, Oct. 13, 8 232-0746. Hours, 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. found, please return to Observer office. ton zdc area. Call Donnas 8042. Royal Valley, Main Street, Buchanan, p.m.ln the back room of the Observer. If -----------------------------------------------------Michigan, October 16 at 4 Michigan time you can't make It at 8, pleau stop byPart-time ... choose your own hours. Need a usc ticket. Call 6814. or call Director Kitty Martin, 695-5495 or later. I will be there all night. This Is Interesting position • good paying with ·-----------------Royal Valley 695-3847. Royal Valley has really very Important! new local magazine. Must have car. Call Desperately need 3 GA tickets to USC. 12 runs and. is installing two new quad Karen Dan 272-5549 after 5 p.m. WANTED Will pay anything. Judie, 4980. chair lifts th1s season. -----;------------­------------------------------------------------------Ok .••..We II be there [she Is really a Learn how to play pocket billiards In the . Available: One student ticket usc. Need four tickets for Southern Cal game. slave driver)poolroom of LaFortune Student Center Wanted: 4 GA or student USC t1x. Call Needed: One GA or Stu. tic. Ga Tech. Call Paul, 1-219-745-2892 collect or Kim Typists under the Huddle. Just see the studentSteph 4-5424. Call1136. 284-5369. -----------------­manager on duty tor help. ---------;----------------------------------------------TO JACKIE STEWART, CHRIS ------------------Wanted-Energetic students from each Desperately need 2 GA tickets to USC. Need ride to Chicago Oct. 14, Share$$. ECONOMAKIE AND ANTONIO CONTACT LENS WEARERS. Save on hall interested in earning good money. Will pay any amount. Mary Lou, 4980. Debbie, 6733. BACHER~LLI-WE LOVE YOU! WHY? barnd name hard and soft lens supplies. Success equals your imput. Call Mike, ------------------------------------WE DON T KNOW ....WE LOVE THE Send for free illustarted catalog. Contact Du Lac Seriagraphs LTD. 8422. would love to go to washington DC area Need 2 student tix to USC for friend and MATCHEATERS .... WHY? WE DON'T Lens Supplies Box 7453 Phoenix Ari-------------------for break but 1 need a ride. Call France, girlfriend. KNOW ..... WE LOVE THE , MEAN zona, 85011. ' ' ' Wanted: 4 USC tickets. Will pay good 6907 if you can help. Thanks. ------------------MACHINE .•.. WHY? WE DON T KNOW ------------------bucks. Call Jim at 1419. ------------------Desperately need 2 Steve Miller tickets. WE LOVE THE GUY WITH THE PRIMA Someone to tutor mentally impaired-------------:-----Need ride to and-or-from NY sState Oct. Call 283-8619. TEN~ MIST IN HIS EYES. WHY? WE adults. Need six hours in education and a Need two Southern Cal. t1x. Beth, 14 weekend. Call Tim 1045. ------------------DON T KNOW. THANKS FOR NASTY car. $6.25 per hour. Call Mark, 1624. 272-2340. ------------------Part-time janitorial work available. BUSINESS. ------------------------------------Desperately need 2 GA Georgia Tech tix. Mornign hours required. Call Sweeney AF & JK Need ride to Bloomington October 14th or Needed: 5 GA tix for USC. Call Telana-Help! Call Mike 1687. or Toney at Corby's, 233-0438 after 2 --:-----------------­
15th. Call Margo, 1325. 45745. ------------------p.m. To a very large Fig, 
------------------•-----------------Need: Ride to Houston Dallas San------------------Since I am now a member of the family-I WILL BE FOREVER GRATEFUL TO Antonio or Austin for break.. Share I need ISC tlx. Call Tom Basile, you have to be nice to me (this includes YOU ifd'ou sell me a pair of GA tickets for expenses, etc. 2942. 233-8288. supplying me with my own set of arms). _ 
FOR SALE the US game. My parents want to come ------------------------------------Your adopted sis, Sandy and cheer for Old Notre Dame. Will pay Need 2 USC tickets GA. Call Bill at 8270. -----------------­$$$$$. Call Mary, 1313. ------------------OWEN 
2 GA USC tl.ckets. Best------------------Wanted· 4 USC tickets Will pay good GOOD LUCK ON SATURDAYIII
For Sale ·. 
Wanted: One student USC ticket. Call · · 111 SORIN
offer .... 8846. Chuck at 1436. money. 256-1487. 
'-----------------------------------PERSONALS ----------------.-­TICKETS FOIR SALE: Two GA basket-w;te"d:"o;;peratel;-~edSGAtix to You are never going to believe this! I How's your love life? Not Good? Call ba11 .ttckets, for best offer. Call Greg, an:_hom_e_gam_e_.ca_ll Ch_ris_a_t1_ ___ need Fifteen Georgia Tech GA tickets. Bob-Mike's school of Snakin' between 10
158 

Please call Geoff at 1083. This weekend only! Carol Robarts will be and 12. 1761.
1159 ------------------d 4 usc GA · w $$ II R ------------------making bar triumphant return to NDI -----------------­
For sale: 1 Student season ticket. Call Nee tlx. ill pay • ca on Desperately need four student or GA Contact Marsa 6847 or Mo 6856 for Mike, 8364. 1423~---------------Georgia Tech tickets. Call Mary 4-4764. details. Thanks for Saturday night at 923. ---------------:----Wanted: 4 GA tickets for Southern Cal. ------------------------------------Nancy
AUDIO OUTLET: Stereo equipment, Will pay good bvucks Call 1423 ask for SMC CHICK DESPERATELY NEEDS Happy birthday to Pia in Rome. We miss-----------------­TV's CB's, wholesale. Call 7781. Mike · • TICKETS. WILL BE VERY GRATEFUL 'ya, Love, the gang from home. Cathy For all your printed sportswear needs: 
__.:__ _________________..:._ _______________ AND PAY ANY PRICE. 4-4089. Peggy, Melanie, Margie, Chuckle, Betsy, The Gret MidwestT Company ...288-9501 HANNER RECORDS-An on-campus, ------------------Mary Beth, Marie, Louise. -----------------­student run record shop. We stock all Need six Southern Cal tlx. Mark, ~-----------------1011 Flanner: new releases and can order any album USC -;tude;t-;r-G A"ti; w;;;ted~-West 287-7051. 1011 Flanner sends Its humble regards to You finally managed to skip out on still being produced. Also available, coast clients will pay premium. _ -....--:------:----------327 Farley, eat your haart outll !US•••••and after all the faithful asslsatnce
272 7360

blank tapes, components, accessories, after 6 P m Need s1x Clemson t1x. Call Leo 287-7051. ------------------we've given youl Don't you like Tuesday pre-recorded 8 tracks and cassettes -____._:.._____________ ------------------Sis S-x nights any more? Prices: $6.98, List LP's only $4.50. $7.98 Need tlx for any ·home game Call Two student USC tickets. Will pay$. yea, heater repairmen sure don't make · The Crew List LP's only $5.29. $7.98 List ztapes, Sharon · Call Suzy or Diane. 5148. good plumbers! -----------------­
1261
only $5.45. Flanner records, 322 Flanner. ___.:___ _:____________ ------------------------------------Ann marls, 
Phone 2741. . Hours, 4-5. 6:30-8:00 Addressers wanted Immediately! work Working or college girl to share 2 VOTE MART MEGARLE for frosh coun-It should be easier to remember your M-Th. Sun 2-3.30. at home __ no experience necessary __ bedroom apt. near IUSB. Call 288-2418. ell, SMC. . • , . own soc. sec. no. and address the next ------------------excellent pay. Write American Service, -------:--------7---Really sis, 1t s ok. I m just domg the time you go to Kubs! Hapy 18th FLANN E R R E CDR DS: . Park Lane, Suite 269, Dallas TX Need two Gt\ t1x for USC. Call J1m 8708. backst~oke. Birthday!!!
A~~ U M 8350

SPECIALS .....th.ese $7.98 List LP s are ------------------------------------Don
75231 . 

only $4.99: Chicago XI, CSN-Crosby ------------------Premium p Ice paid for two USC tlx. GA Don, . -----------------­Stills and Nash, Aja-Steely Dan. Little Need five usc GA tickets Call Jim or studen.. Call Steve at 7471 or There never was any doubts; how could Can give you ride to Columbus-Ports-Queen-Heart, I Robot-Alan Parsons · · • 288-0088. there be. So, when are you coming? mouth, Ohio after USC game. Need ride
8376

Project, Foreigner, Simple Dreams-__:.._ _______________ ------------------The yoyo of your life back to N D after break. linda Rondstadt, Hotel California-Babysitter wanted for two Infants _ Desperately need 6 Georgia Tech GA tix. ------------------Dan, 3249 Eagles, Going for the One·Yes, Steve weekdays to p m _ or Call Marilyn, 234-0982. Flight to NYC at X-Mas-Round trip, $92. -----------------­
3 4 233 9535
Winwood-Steve Winwood --Flanner Re-289_ · · · ------------------Full payment at Student Activities office Green MGB '76 needs new parent. Great
3668

cords, 322 Flanner .... Phone 2741. Hours----'--------------NEED ONE SOUTHERN CAL TICKET Lafortune. Wed, Oct 12 final day. condition! Call Shari, 4981. 4-:_6:30-8:00:...M-Th.:._________ ~esper~telr 4~4ei5d6ed: 2-4 GA tickets to ~·A~~MAI~~~43~-------NOTREDAMEBOWLINGLEAGUE IS _!VY..:.__a_ ___.:._ _________ My father hasn't been back to NO in 30 NOW FORMING THURSDAY NIGHTS, want $$? Need southern Cal vs. NO year~. Help his dream come true with an 9:oo pm, REGAL LANES IN MISHA-football tix, Oct. 22. Sports Tour at 3050 SC ticket. Call 8918. Bless you! WAKA. CALL 288-2614.
LOST AND FOUND 

W. 7th Street, L.A. Calif. 90005. Call----:------:--------------------------­~ 213-384-1951. could also use 4 tix for any Wanted. USC GA t1ckets for parents -Christmas shop with Avon. Kathy, 7947 
LOST: Silver 10 bracelet at football game home game. please call 4-4774. for specials! Sat. If found. call Ellen 7962. -----------------------------------------------------­------------------wanted: 4 tickets together to any home Need someone t~ drive ~ car to New 4th Stanford· LOST: Black leather wallet. Need 10 and game. Call 289-9530 (Debbie) after 6 London, Ct. anyt1me dunng October. Thanks for the many personals this year. 
license. Reward, call Robert 1465. p.m. · Phone 291-1561. MB 
LOST: -;;-r~tolen~.b;;;;;~;;de-;;;t"~ Desperet;-N;;d;ide fo;-;; to N;rth Ne~d ride to Omaha for Fall Break. Call Pepe • contin·ues on pg 10. 
Oct. 3 ins. Dining Hall. Return and no Jersey (or even close) Oct. 23. Rob • Colin, 8689. Monday wasn't for me but this is for questions asked. 272-5786. 1145. you. Thanks anyway. 
L 


..--~----------------~--~-------------------~-----------... ..... ... .......... 
t 
r 
r 

12 the ObS8fY8[ Wednesday, October 12, 1977 
" 

Soccer team extends streak to 9 
by Monte Towle "I missed Saturday's game be­broke alone down the middle, Sports Writer cause I o,yas back at Notre Dame pulling the goalie out of position taking my dental boards," Hagerty before putting a shot home at 10:40
i 
The Notre Dame soccer team has explained. No matter, goals by of the first half..
i 
now won nine games in a row. Moe11ering and Tim Nauman help­Nick Schneeman made it 2-0 atWeekend victories over Xavier and ed to pick up the slack in the the 33:58 mark, taking a pass fromIndiana-Purdue University, and triumph. Hagerty was back in Dan McCourry and sliding it pastyesterday's 3-0 conquest of Man­action on Sunday at Fort Wayne. 
Manchester goalie Mauri Stomp on

chester, have left the Irish with a That's an understatement. An the the right side of the net.
9-1-1 record in this, their first year Dayton, Ohio native did was to fire 
of varsity competition. in three shots for goals that The final goal came off the head ! Amidst the wind and cold behind enabled the Irish to down Indiana­of Tom Crotty at 43:30 on a l \ Stepan Center yesterday, the Irish Purdue, 3-1. centering pass from McCourry. 
i slammed home three first half "I had added incentive to play goals to wrap up the decision early. well," Hagerty explained. "I was ''The guys are really working 
hard," Assistant Coach Tom Van

Forward Roman Klos described it playing the game in front of my girl Meter emphasized in referring toas a 'solid team effort.' Junior Jim friend. I really wanted to play the great depth of players. "We'reMoellering was not at all affected well." 
still experimenting with players by 

by the cold. He scored the game's And then came Tuesday and the rotating them among various posi­
first and winning goal early in the windblown 3-0 win over Manches­tions. We are a young team with afirst half. Meanwhile, Co-captain ter behind Stepan Center. The lot of depth and this allows CoachTerry Finnegan stood on the side­score could have been higher as Rich Hunter to shuffle playerslines in blue jeans and a cold Notre Dame outshot their oppo­around."
weather jacket nursing some nents by a commanding 17-5 
bumps and bruises that he has advantage. Notre Dame will be looking for 
j 
received in recent games. "Each game we're getting more their tenth triumph in a row '"I'll probably sit out for about and more chances to score," Thursday night as well as a drive 
l 
another week,'' the senior scoring Moellering outlined. "Our timing towards their goal of a playoffmachine stated. "I just need to get continues to improve with each berth. They will be playing Bethel rested up." game and we're on the verge of College at 7:30 p.m. on the 
It's not often that a team playing power at the latter's home field. wre without the services of Finne­really clicking as an offensive astroturf on Cartier Field. Both in its first year of varsity competi­For Notre Dame, their 2-0 victory gan for most 0f the game and unit.'' Terry Finnegan and Bob Gildea will 
tion on the Division II level is able over Xavier at Cincinnati on Satur­high-scoring B'll Hagerty for the The junior from Florissant, Mis­probably miss the game due to
i to rise up and shutout a Division I day was especially amazing. They entire game. souri took a pass from Hagerty and minor injuries. 
Grace,Fianner,Keenan, and Dillon top 1-H
l 
by Mike Henry their first victory, shutting out penalties set them back. Leon attempt as the Keenanites, who Mike Gennett to Geri-y Wills. Bill Sports Writer winless Pangborn 14-0, ST. Ed's Muraro was a standout on defense have yet to be scored upon this Adams knocked through both shocked Off-Campus 14-12, and for the winners. season, upped their mark to 2-0-2. PArs. Pangobrn drops to 0-3-1, 
j 
Exciting interhall football action Alumni snatched victorv from the Flanner improved their log to Dillon had all they cared to while sorin is now 1-2, pending a continued last Sunday under jaws of defeat, scoring ~in the last 3-0-1 by downing Zahm. Dave handle against an inspired Morris­protest of a game played earlier threatening skies and with temper­three seconds to down Fisher, 7-6. Brassard's ten-yard toss to Marty sey squad. The Big Red, now 4-0, against Off-Campus. atures in the mid-fifties. Four Nick Frangella's third-quarter Dytrych at the start of the fourth scored first on a two-yard scamper In a major upset, St. Ed's teams remained undefeated as bomb of forty-five yards to Frank period was the difference. The around end by quarterback Bill registered their third victory a­Grace eased past Stanford 6-0, Anasti constituted the only scoring conversion attempt was successful, Griffin. Tim Hallaroy's kick made gainst one loss, surprising Off­} Flanner defeated Zahm 8-0, Kee­as Grace improved their record to Brassard hooking up with AI Chu-it 7-0.. Campus. St. Ed's rallied twice to 
) nan romped over Cavanaugh, 10-0, 3-0 against Stanford. Now 0-2-1, maker. Offensive guard Terry Morrissey, 1-3 on the season, hand Off-Campus their first loss. and Dillon eeked out a 14-12 win Stanford had the ball inside Parker was a vital cog in giving rallied in the second half, going Two four-yard runs by Dan over Morrissey. Grace's fifteen-yard line in the Brassard the protection he needed. ahead 12-7 on a four-yard dash by Tranel were instrumental in the 
In other action, Sorin picked up second period, but two major The losers, now 1-2, were hurt by Jim Byrne and a thirty-five yard victory, as was a successful conver­120 yards in penalties, four fum-interception return by Glenn sion pass from Greg Oberlin to bles and one interception. Jay Saur Sturm. Andy Schmidt after Tranel's first and Steve Cicciarelli excelled in Dillon regained their composure score.
Yankees topple LA 
defeat, perpetrating assorted acts and tallied on a short pass from In the day's most exciting match, of mayhem against Flanner line-Griffin to Hallaroy with two min-Alumni stunned Fisher by scoring NEW YORK [AP) -Paul Blair, who pitched a courageous 8 113 men. utes remaining in the game. with three seconds to play and 
inserted in the ninth inning for his inni_ngs in a tough duel with the Keenan had little problem hand-Hallaroy remained on the field to successfully converting the extra defense, drilled a 12th-inning sin-Dodgers' Don Sutton. ing Cavanaugh their third loss as post Dillon's final point. point. Fisher controlled the first gle into left field to score Willie As the game whirled past mid-they dominated the first half and In a battle of winless teams, half but could only record six Randolph with the winning run as night and into extra innings, the then coasted against a listless Sorin had little trouble downing points, coming on a thirty-five yard the New York Yankees nipped the Yankees twice put leadoff men on Cavanaugh offense. Greg Riehle hapless Pangborn, . 14-0. With pass from Dino Carbone to Tony Los Angeles Dodgers 4-3 Tuesday first base but were unable to move scored on a two-yard run and Nick Pangborn in possession on their Crudele. night in a thrilling opening game of them against reliever Mike Garman Molinaro galloped forty-five yards own four, Tom Rigsby deflected a A bad snap on the extra-point the 1977 World Series. as reserve catcher Jerry Grote to give Keenan a 13-0 lead at pitchout and recovered in the attempt turned out to be costly 
Sparky Lyle retired 11 consecu-thwarted two sacrifice attempts inermission. Pangborn end zone for Sorin's first when Alumni's Terry Hawkins_ tive batters after surrendering a with dazzling defensive plays. Frank Hopke's forty-nine yard score. rammed in from two yards out and game-tying pinch single to Lee In the 12th, Randolph opened return of an intercepted pass was A sixty-yard ball control drive Don Snail cooly booted the extra Lacy in the ninth and nailed down with a double on the first pitch from the only second-half scoring. Ed late in the game ended in a point for the exuberant winners. the victory in relief of Don Gullett, [continued on page 10] Dainko was good on one conversion ten-yard touchdow·.t pass from Joe Botticelli's determined running Monte TowI e :===========================================================================================================:=====:===============================:=:=:=:======:=========::====:==:========================================================:==:========:==================··-=·=======:::=::::::::::=========::::=:= keyed the winning drive. 
Intcrhall action continues tonight with games at Cartier Field starting 
I 
at 7 p.m.

Free Agents and Trivia Answers 
Sports
NEWS 

::=====::;:;:;::=======================================================================================================:========================================================================================================================================:=:==============:=:::=:=:=:::::::=:=:::=:=:====:· 
Towle 's Rags

The baseball season is quickly drawing to a close. How long it will be How about drawing straws? That would be even more fun. Jerry before the final game is played depends on how quickly the Dodgers are Kapstein and Bob Woolf will be laughing all~he way to the bank. able to dispose of the New York Yankees in the World Series. Once the As for the trivia column that ran last week, 1 got a pretty good response 
Devine to speak

season is over and November 4 is just around the corner, the real season but the best had to come from Anne Richards and Mary Broderick, 
begins. Because it is on that date that free agents become available for students at St. Mary's. They didn't attempt to answer all ofthe questions, Head Football Coach Dan Devine 
the re~entry draft and owners like George Steinbrenner and Bill Veeck but Anne did take the time to write out the theme song of the 1965 will speak in the Fischer Hall
) 
reach for their fat wallets in hopes of buying victories. For Bill Veeck, that Amercian League champs, Minnesota Twins. Her best queston: Who basement tonight, at 8 p.m. The 
( wallet will have to open soon because he stands to lose his great hitting was the only pitcher to throw to both Babe Ruth and Mickey Mantle? As 
vent is co-sponsored by Fischer outfield. for Mary, she waited on Tom Seaver at breakfast one day in Cincinnati. 
and Badin Halls. 

Richie Zisk, Oscar Gamble and Ralph Garr have played out their options Those who came closest to getting all of the answers correct were Kris and Veeck has but three weeks left to sign them before they become Haines and John Reynoldi. Here are the correct answers from last 
B-Ball Tryouts

. marketable. None of the three claim to be glove experts and rightly so, week's quiz: but their bats do an awful lot of talking. Zisk batted .290 with 30 homers 
Anyone interested in trying outThe pitcher with 200 wit.s is Milt Pappas. Tom Sturtevant was theand 101 RBI's, while gamble's numbers read .297, 31 and 83 and Garr for the 1977-78 edition of thebatter that Johnny Stephenson pinchhit for. In 1963, the uniform number chipped in with a .302 batting mark. There are several teams who will be Fighting Irish basketball teamwas 32 worn by Sandy Koufax, Elston Howard, Jim Brown and Cookie 

l 
looking for these three bats come November but count on Veeck to do all Gilchrist. Don Meredith wore 17, Jerry West, 44; Dick Butkus, 51; Bill !should report to the ACC Arena, he can to sign them. Russell, 6 and Jena Beliveau, 4. !dressed and ready to practice, at 10 The Minnesota Twins stand to lose even more than the Chisox. I'm 
a.m. on Saturday, October 15. 

Jo Jo White went to Kansas, ; Roger Staubach, Annapolis; Ken Stabler,referring to Larry Hisle with his league-leading 119 ribbies, .336-hitting 
Alabama; Johnny Neumann, Ole Miss and Lou Hudson, Minnesota . TheLyman Bostock and relievers Tom Burgmeier and Ron Schueler. The 
Tennis Tourney

1965 Minnesota Twins feature catcher Earl Battey; Don Mincher andTwins cannot afford to lose either Hisle or Bostock unless owner Calvin 
l 
Harmon Killebrew at first, Frank Quilici at 2nd, MVP Zoilo Versalles atGriffith likes to lose. 
Miami of Ohio, with four ·wins 

shortstop, Rich Rollins and Killebrew at third. Bobby Allison in left,All told, there were 64 potential free agents as of October 4 and owners and no losses, won the 1977 NotreJimmie Hall in center and Tony Oliva in right. Jim "Mudcat" Grant wonhave to be more than ready to break open their piggy banks. There's Dame Fall Invitational Tennis
l 
21 games while Jim Kaat added 18. Sam Mele was the manager and RodYankee Mike Torrez, Baltin10re's Ross Greimsley, Doc Medich of the Tournament. The Redskins wereCarew did play for the 1965 Twins. Willie Mays was on deck for BobbyMets, Bill Bonham of the Cubs and Wilbur Wood of the White Sox. For followed closely by Oral RobertsThomson's shot-heard-round-the-world. Ralph Branca was the infamousrelievers, how about Rich Gossage, Rawly Eastwick, Dick Drago and Dave and Indiana. There was a three­pitcher and he wore uniform number 131 Was Leo Durocher coachingGiusti. If it's a catcher you want, take your pick from George Mitterwald, way tie for fourth-place which
third? He was the Giants' manager.
Ray Fosse, Tim McCarver and Jerry Grote. 
included Notre Dame, SouthernFirst basemen are at a premium; Willie McCovey, Dave Kingman and Joe Namath passed for 4,007 yards one year. Wilt Chamberlain scored Illinios and Illinois State.

Willie Stargell to name a few. And if you're in need of an outfielder, you 100 against the N.Y. Knicks and Maurice Richard was the first NHL-er to Craig Wittus, who was undefeat­can always buy a used Manny Mota or a Paul Baslir or a Del Unser. Other score SO goals during the regular season (He did it in only SO games). As 
.ed in the tournament, led Miami to 
\ worthy investments might be made in the merchandise of Merv for Syracuse running backs, you can choose from among Jim Brown, Ernie its victor .
Rettenmund, Carlos May, Rick Miller, Elliot Maddox and Terry Crowley. Davis, Floyd Little, Jim Nance and Larry Csonka. 






