---~~--~----------------~~--~-~-----­
Controversial decision has broad implications 

WASIDNGTON [AP] -The Supreme Court was urged yester­day to decide whether special programs to aid racial minorities are valid and vital to society or whether they should be banned for illegally discriminating against whites. 
The view that the court's nine justices take in the reverse discri­mination case of Allan Paul Bakke could have a profound effect on the future of so-called affirmative ac­tion programs in education and business across the nation. 
Many civil rights leaders and constitutional scholars believe the court's decision will be its most important ruling on race relations since it banned segregation in 1954. A ruling is expected before the court concludes its current term next July. 
The case drew wide attention, and hundreds of people lined up outside the court building begin­ning Tuesday night to gain admis­sion to the session. 
"Allan Bakke's position is that he has a right not to be discriminat­ed against because of race," San Francisco attorney Reynold Colvin argued in urging the court to uphold a ruling by the California supreme court. 
The state court_ ruled that a special admissions program used by the University of California's medical school at Davis made Bakke a victim of racial discrimina­tion because it allowed less aca­demically qualified minority stud­Bakke. Bakke, a 37-year-old Sunnyvale, Calif., engineer with the nation's space program, suc­cessfully contended in state courts that he would have been admitted if the medical school had not set aside 16 of each year's entering class for minority students. 
The university appealed the Cali­fornia court's ruling, and its attor­ney argued that such a program is needed to aid persons "long vic­timized by racial discrimination.'' 
The attorney, former Watergate special prosecutor Archibald Cox, told the justices that "race may be taken into account for proper purposes" such as overcoming the effected of past oppression. 
While Cox's arguments focused on the rights of minorities to have a real opportunity for full member­ship in American society, Colvin's contentions centered on Bakke's rights as an individual to be treated equally. _Both attorneys said the Constitu­tion's 14th Amendment, which guarantees such equal protection, favored their positions. 
Each member of the court posed questions to the attorneys, the first coming only seven minutes after Cox began his presentation. 
Cox was joined by the Carter administration's solicitory general, Wade McCrae, who appeared as a friend of the court to urge the justices to overturn the California ruling. 
"To be blind to race today is to that governmental affirmative ac­tion programs have not yet a­chieved their stated goals of equal justice and equal opportunity. 
While Cox argued that the medical school program had the valid "objective of breaking down isolation,'' Colvin claimed that "race itself is an improper guide for selection to the medical school.' 
While Colvin said the California court was correct in its finding that "there were alternatives" to a race-conscious admissions policy, Cox contended, "The other alter­natives suggested simply will not work " 
Cox and Calvin also entered into a semantic discussion over whether the admissions program at Davis represented a ''racial quota.'' 

Colvin charged that it did, that a certain number of medical class seats were reserved for racial minority members therefore limit­ing the seats for which whites such as Bakke could compete. 
Cox said the program was "not a quota, at least as I would use the word." 
He stressed that only "qualified" minority applicants were admitted under it. 
But Justice Lewis F. Powell, Jr., asked, "Does it really matter what we call this program?" 
Cox agreed that the central issue was whether the university's pro­gram could "take race into ac­count." 
The 
Many of the justices' questions centered not on the constitutional question but one of federal law. 
The California courts found that the program not only violated the Constitution's 14th Amendment but also a portion of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 wh~ch prohibits racial discrimination in education programs receiving federal fund­
ing. 
Chief Justice Warren E. Burger and Justices William J. Brennan, Jr., and Byron R. White pressed Colvin and Cox on whether the case could be decided without reaching 
the constitutional questions. If the court takes such a route, the chances of an expected "land­mark" decision would decline. 
Observer 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's Vol. XII, No. 33 Thursday, October 13, 1977 

1he Saint Mary's Chorus performs in the Saint Mary's dining hall in celebration of Founders Day. [Photo by lisa Becker] 
By Administration 

Worker lay-off defended 
by Mike Ridenour about uniomzation before the groundskeepers, stated, "We're 
Staff Reporter representation election so they still going to continue the fight for 
could decide for themselves," Fac unionization. Why should we work 
The University's Administration cenda explained. in other departments for less commented yesterday that there is "This is just like the AI Hunter money than we make as grounds­unjustified speculation surround­case,' Faccenda continued. "The keepers?" ing the groundskeepers' situation. University is on the defensive and Commenting on Hull's meeting "Notre Dame was never planning we can't say anything, but in court, with the groundskeepers, Tom to fire the groundskeepers,'' stated to defend ourselves." Soma, Student Body vice-president Phillip Faccenda, general council Meanwhile, Tom Bull, director of said, "I was impressed since for the University. Personnel, met with the grounds­Hesburgh had a part in it. It's 
A petition filed by the law firm keepers to explain compromise indicative that Hesburgh is going representing Notre Dame said that proposals from the University. The to take a role in the future." 21 groundskeepers would be per­Nov. 1 date is no longer definite Soma explained why the Mass to manently laid off. The petition also and the new date depends on the support the groundkeepers was related that the University would National Labor Relations Board switched from the Administration contract out Cromwell Manage­fiscal difficulty from Indianapolis Building steps to the Grotto. "I ment to replace the current being resolved. had a lot of imput from many groundskeepers. "The law firm No firms have been contracted as people, and after talking with them made a mistake in these areas," of yet, with only bids having been I made the best decision possible. I Faccenda said. accepted. If and when the firm is felt the Mass was an instrument of 
"I wish the hearing hadn't been contracted, the groundskeepers demonstration against the Univer­postponed Wednesday because will be given a two-weeks notice. stiy and I thought that was strong this whole mess would be over. Bull also revealed that the Uni­enough." The reason Notre Dame didn't versity said it would do everything The Mass will celebrated by Fr. automatically unionize the in its power to find jobs for the John Fitzgerald at 12:15 p.m. groundskeepers was for the Uni­groundskeepers in other depart­today. Petitions will be collected versity to present its side of the ments at Notre Dame or from at the end of mass and will be issue at the hearing. We wanted another employer. presented to Fr. Hesburgh, Univer­the groundskeepers to get the facts Jim Payton, spokesman for the sity president, tomorrow. 
Forum discusses pro-life solution to abortion issue 
Kathleen Connelly constitutional amendment that Staff Reporter would restore the right to life for the unborn child from the moment A pro-life solution to the abortion of conception with no exceptions
issue was discussed at a forum except in cases where the life of the sponsored by the Howard and mother is endangered." Badin Religious Commissions last 
Rice added that he is very
night in the Howard chapel. 
optimistic about the passage of 
Four panel members gave brief such an amendment. expositions of their views and then answered questions from a gather­A counselor from Birthright In­ing of about 40 persons. The focus ternational, Jacqueline Daugherty, 
of the presentation was on what explained what is involved for the type of approach toward the rever­individual in making a decision sal of of the Supreme Court since the Supreme Court ruling. decision to allow abortions would Birthright International is a pro-life best advance the anti-abortion organization that offers free coun­cause. seling and referral services." "We don't give our clients , easy 
Fr. Leon Mertensotto, chairman 

choices," Daugherty commented,
of the Theology department, said 
''but our way fosters respect for
that he believes that the science of 
human life and human dignity.'' 
fetology promises the best solution 
"Women are under many pres­
to the abortion issue. He cited the 
fact that the development of an artificial amniotic sac which would enablethe fetus at any stage to survive independently of the mot­herwould be most widely accepted as reason for oveturning the Supreme Court ruling. 
Kenneth Goodpaster of the Phil~ osophy department, however, 
. commented that in his opinion something more than biological evidence will be needed to resolve the question of the "humanness" of the fetus. "What is needed is a re-education of attitudes and an improvement of moral vision and moral response." 

The problem with this, Good­Professor Rice was only one of the paster said, is " how do you speakers who participated in the educate a moral response or help a forum sponsored by Howard and 
-person see that certain assump­Badin Halls. [Photo by lisa Becker] tions that he makes he would want to disown if he looked at them 
sures when they come to us. explicitly?" Essentially what we try to do is to 
Charles Rice, author of the book get the woman to stop and review The Vanishing Right to Life, ·fa~ possible options," Daugherty said .. vored a legal response to the "We present the consequences of abortion ruling which must come, . an abortion truthfully, honestly and he believes, "in the form of a ·without sentimentality.'' 
Thursday, October n; 1977
the observer 

~News Briefs________,.. 

Manson prosecutor to lecture 
l============================== National 
Enterprise test 'superb' 
EDWARBS AIR FORCE BASE• Calif. --The Space Shuttle Enterprise all but completed its eight-month testing program yesterday with what scientist said was a "superb" flight that proved the craft can return safely from space missions. The two-minute diving glide of the Enterprise was made without the 'ftllcone that had made previous test flights smoother than actual returns from orbit would be. The principle milestone now remaining is testing of the engines, now estimated to begin in



;::';Jwr 0 
Mostly sunny and warmer today, high in the mid SO's. Clear and cool tonight. lows in the mid to upper 40's. Sunny and pleasant tomorrow. high around 60. Light southwesterly winds this afternoon. 
~On Campus Today-~ 
12:30 pm colloquim, "the metamemory-memory 'connection'.", joh . cavanaugh, nd grad student. sponsored by psyc. dept , haggar hall rm. 123, open to public 
3-5 pm workshop, "work values", karen o' neil, pat mccor­mack, executive board room, smc. 
4 pm seminar, "exiplexes in photochemical reactions," dr. rrchard a. caldwell, univ. of dallas-texas, sponsoredby radiation lab, rad. lab., open to public. 
4:30pm lecture, "structuralism and criticism: roland barthes," prot seamus deane, sponsored by english dept., rare book room, mem. lib., open to public. 
6:45 pm organizational meeting, swimming and diving, lib. aud. 
7,9,11 pm film, "play misty for me," eng. aud., $1. 
7:15pm 7 pm 
7:30pm 8 pm 
8pm 
8 pm organizational meeting, women's basketball, lib. aud. 

lecture, "the paper-making industry," james van buren, proctor & gamble co., sponsored by nd asme, rm. 303, eng. bldg., refreshments will be served. 
soccer game, nd vs. bethel college, cartier field. 
colloquium, ''terium datur: refocussing the jewish-­christian schism," prof. john howard yoder, sponsored by theology dept., lib. aud., open to public. 
musicial program, "an evening with stephen foster's new orleans-1865", sponsored by smc music dept., stapelton lounge, tickets $1, call 4-4176. 
nd/smc theater, "a comedy of errors," o'laughlin aud., $2.50. 
9-11 pm open stage, nazz, basement of Iafortune. 
midnight wsnd midnight album hour, "starwood", starwood. 12:10­
12:30 am films, featuring the little rascals, darby's place. 
.--­

r:~~d:..~~:~~.~:.~l ~··················, 
Asst. Night Editor: Bob Brink Layout Staff: Katie Kerwin Editorial Layout: Rosemary Mills Sports Layout: Paul Stevenson Typists: Gwen Coleman, Mary McCormick, Beth Rizzo, Lisa DiValerio Night Controllers: Mardi Nev­in, Leigh Tunakan Day Editors: Mary Lawrence Kathy Connelly Copy Readers: Honey Me Hugh, Ann Gale~ 

Ad Layout: Paula Carrolll Photographer: Lisa Becker J 
need posters m a hurry? 


: A NEW RECORD STORE IS : : NOW OPEN IN SOUTH BEND!: 
:River Ci... Records: 
•
•
•
• 
• 
: 
• 

by Jim Coyne felony trials prior to the Manson case. Vincent Bugliosi, chief pros­His investigation ofthe Tate-La ecutor of Charles Manson, and Bianca murders in 1969 uncovered 
· co-author of the best-selling book a history of bizarre savagery un­Belter Skelter, will speak at Notre matched in American criminal an­Dame this Monday. Bugliosi's nals. Behind it all was a guru who presentation will be held at 7:30 had the power to persuade others 
p.m. in Washington Hall, and is to incriminate themselves, mutilate sponsored by the Student Union their faces -even murder for him Academic Commission. Admission with gusto, relish and with no is free. evident signs of remorse. 
Considered one of the most Unfortunately the Manson saga outstanding prosecutors in Los did not end with the trial. Even in Angeles criminal courts, Bugliosi jail it seemed he could reach out to had compiled a record of 105 his followers and command them to criminal convictions out of 106 carry out his wishes; whether it be 
The L'Arche movement spreads to South Bend 
The L'Arche movement consists 
of a group of parents, profes­
sionals and other interested people 
from the South Bend area, includ­
ing Notre Dame and St. Mary's, 
who have committed themselves to 
trying to provide a family style 
home for retarded youngsters. 

The group was inspired by Jean Vanier, a Canadian theologian who started a home for two handicap­ped men in France in 1962. In ten years, 40 L'Arche houses on four continents have opened their doors to the handicapped. 
The Hearth, the first L'Arche­type home in the United States, was founded in 1973 in Erie, Penn. Other communities exist in Syr­acuse, Mobile, Clinton, Missoula and Cleveland. 
The group is presently working to set up a home in South Bend at 811 North Allen. The house has been made available by RENEW, 
Discount cards to be distributed 
Student buying power cards will 
be distributed from 1 to ·s p.m. in 
the Student Government Office on the second floor of LaFortune today and tomorrow only. 

ERRATUM 

ln yesterday's Observer Mike Lawrence was incorrectly identified as a member of the National Labor Relations Board. Lawrence is actually assistant business rep­resentative of Teamsters Union Local 364. 
• 7 • 
One of Indiana's Largest Record Stores : • 
Inc., and has been furnished through donations. 
A monthly mass is held by the group at the Bulla Shed at 2 p.m on Sunday. This Sunday Fr. Robert Griffin, the University Chaplain, will be the celebrant. Interested persons are invited to attend. 
For further information about the L'Arche movement, students can call John Borowski (282-2276) or Vittoria Bosco (288-5200). 
Beaux Art Ball set for Saturday 
The Architecture Department will sponsor its annual Beaux Art Ball, with the theme "Star Lore and Other Galactic Funk,'' Satur­day night in the Architecture Building. The costume dance will start at 9:30p.m. 
Tickets will be available at the dining halls and in the main office of the Architecture Building today and tomorrow. The cost is $3 per person in advance or $3.50 at the door. 
open Fri. & Sat. till 



Midnight 
Pabst s579 
case 


Busch 


case 


Strohs 

s579 

aIstaff s2a9 
12 pack (bottles)


Blatz 

$269 
12 pack 
to attempt his release from prison or to assassinate the President. 
For two years, Bugliosi inves­tigated, interviewed, and prac­tically lived with the Manson family. This investigation led Bugliosi to repeatedly warn the 
F.B.I. that persons such as "Squeaky" Fromme were dan­gerous and capable of attempted presidential assassinations. 
In his case study of the "Manson mentality," Bugliosi reveals the surprising and often misunder­stood facts about the family's background, their philosophy, and how the different types, from class president to child molester came to truly believe Charles Manson was Jesus Christ. 
The motive for the killings -to ignite a black-white Armageddon called Helter Skleter in which Manson would emerge the ultimate victor, and the suport they found for their beliefs-in the Bible and in the lyrics of the Beatles which they splashed across the walls in the victims own blood, are examined in Bugliosi's book. 
Now in private practice in Los Angeles, Bugliosi is currently wor­king to re-open the files on Robert Kennedy's assassination based on new evidence which, he feels, points to Sirhan Sirhan's frame-up and the existence of a "second assassin.'' 
The Observer is published Mon· day through Friday except during exam and vac.1tion periods. The Observer is published by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for no per year 
, 
(S 10 per semester> from The 
Observer. P.O. Box Q, Notre 
Dame, Indiana 46556. S~cond 
class postage palo, Notre Dame, 
Indiana, 46556 
The Observer is • member of 
the Anociated Pren. All repro. 
duction rights are reserved. 
vQCI(~ 
LIQUOR 
~0 R\..Q 
Old Chicago 
$149 6 packs 

Schlitz 
$169 

6 pack 

Featuring a full line of rock, pop, jazz, 
•Old Style1:~~~ks2s9
blues, soul and bluegrass records & 
• 
Peter Kernan, owner [NO '75] Jody Gormley [NO '77] Perrv Aberll, manager [NO '69] Peter Murphy [NO '78] Bruce Reaves, assistant manager Randy Varga Chris Kernan, assist. manager [NO '78] Karen Aberli 
Brenda Fleece [SMC '77 • 
.-------·COUPON•-------­

.50cOFFANYL.P.ORTAPE NO 
• 
WITH THIS COUPON! 

• 
(Now thru Oct. 20l 


• River City Records 
L 
• 50970 U.S. 31 North (Next to Ray's Quality Foods) South Bend , 277-4242 
tapes! Also official concert tour T-shirts. 
•
posters and belt buckles, cut-outs. im­ports, magazines, blank tapes, record care products and River City Concert Tickets! (Pick up your copy of The River 
• 
City Review today!) 

•
•
STAFF: 
• 
Hamms 
six pack$1 59 
Strohs 16oz case



saa7 
Miscellaneous Cases of Beer 

sass 

Rum $498 
qt 

.Scotch$539 
qt 

Vodka$399 
qt 
Gin S419 

2128 South Bend Ave. 
~· 
!1-:..u. ........ "' ..... <.. • 



Thursday, October 13, 1977 
the observer 

Off-campus burglaries continue 

by Brlgid Rafferty Staff Reporter 
An electric typewriter, calculator and portable television set were stolen from the home of Notre Dame law student Scott Sullivan, 802 East Corby Street, sometime on Tuesday afternoon. 
South Bend police said that the robbery probably occurred between 1 p.m., when Sullivan left his house, and 5 p.m. when his upstairs neighbors returned and noticed that his rear door was partly open. 
"I think that the thief entered by kicking in a bas.ement ~indow," 
said Sullivan. "l rememoer com­ing home on Monday afternoon and finding the basement door open, 

Hearing set to dis~uss issue of office space for Danehy 
by Joan Fremeau Copy Editor 
A hearing will take place Thurs­day, Oct. 27 to decide whether James P. Danehy, professor emeri­tus of organic chemistry, will be allowed to remain in his office until his case is resolved. 
Danehy's attorney, Paul B. Kus­bach, requested a temporary re­straining order to prevent the University from forcing Danehy to vacate his office and laboratory in the Chemical Engineering building and exchange offices with another professor. The hearing will take place in the Starke County Court in 
on t lecture was the first in Careers, and Marriage." 

made at the hearing. "My case is 
.n es women , s roIe still in litigation. with_ the outco.me
by no means predictable," he
GIass 0 UtII 
by Tom Phillis 
The need for a change in society's attitudes toward career women's roles was the basic theme presented by Carol Glass, a profe.s­sor of psychology at Notre Dame, in her lecture last evening at Lewis Hall. The lecture, the first in a series on the new role of women in the world presently being spon­sored by the joint academic com­missioners of the women's halls, was titled "Women, Careers and Marriage''. 
Glass advised the women in attendance to "make sure you know where your future husband stands"beforedeciding to become a ''two-career woman''. She said that marriages often suffer because women feel wronged by having to work and perform the traditional but I didn't think anything of it. 

~ecause mv landladv was sendine over an eh;ctrician and I knew h~ was coming. But I think the thief must have come in and looked over the house on Monday, and then robbed it on Tuesday." Sullivan also mentioned that he had felt secure in the house before the recent burglary. 
According to South Bend Detec­tive Chief Molnar, this case is being assigned to a night detective. 
"When we hear of an area where special problems are occurring, we try to get more police cars there to deter to crime," he added. 
When asked if the off-campus 
• 11 ....__ ...._ __ ..2 __ ... _ -·----11--........ -.L 

aream wntcn stuuenLs usuany renL 
houses is particularly subject to 
crime, Molnar responded, "Burg-
Knox, Ii~. 
Danehy filed suit against the university last spring when he was notified that he would automatical­ly become Professor Emeritus in June when he reached the age of 
65. The purpose of his suit is to prove discrimination on the part of the University against professors who have reached the age of 65. 
Danehy is presently not em­ployed by the University, although he still occupies his office and adjoining one-man laboratory that he has "occupied for more than 20 years." 
Danehy does not want to move from his office because, according 
women m the world. The on the topic of "Women, [Photo by lisa Becker] 
wrote to Freeman. "Since the jobs to part-time in order to share University does not have a policy of in the raising of their child while requiring active faculty to move (a still keeping their careers. status to which I may well be 
The roles of women in the world restored), it woul!i be quite inap­are changing and society will have propriate to insist on my moving to aqapt itself to the changes, Glass before the judge has given his concluded. decision," he concluded. 


United 
WOYatN.D. 
PARTICIPATION CHART 
1.00 
.90 
.80 

"41-l'a.........., ..... -..~.a=--.L--~-L~ 
_,=-..,a•l•flu~ ilnn:uug lantgnr 
A meeting concerning off-campus crime will be held at 7 p.m. tonight at the Northeast Neighborhood Center, 803 N. Notre Dame Ave. Sgt. Joel Wolvos of the South Bend Police Department will be present to answer questions about the recent increases in robberies of student homes. 
. All off-campus residents are invited to attend the meeting and join with other students living in the area in a discussion of their 
common problems. 
!aries happen all through this city. When Notre Dame studellts come back and live in town, burglars in that area learn the situation in a short time. They are particularly attracted to houses where four or 
more sruaent;:, 11vc e:u1u u .....Lt;;;. ,., a. higher amount of valuables." "We have been working on the 
to a letter he sent to Dr. Jeremiah Freeman, head of the chemistry department, "a large majority of retired faculty occupy and continue to use exactly the same offices assigned to them when they were active members of the faculty." Also, the pattern of moving retired faculty out of their offices or to other offices has been "atypical of the chemistry department." Final­ly, he refuses to ''quickly fade from the scene." He has "every intention of continuing" his re­search already begun in his lab. 
On August 12, according to Danehy, Freeman told him he was to exchange offices with Conrad Kowalski, assistant professor of chemistry. Kowalski's present office does not have an adjoining lab, and Danehy was not assigned a lab to continue his research. He assumed he would have to work in a larger laboratory used by stu­dents, which, he noted, would be ''unprofesssional treatment for someone who has been on the faculty for 26 years." 
No action had been taken by the chemistry department to move Danehy from his office until last week. Danehy said he entered his office Monday morning and found "half of the floor space taken up by empty carton boxes." Last Thurs­day his attorney met with the University's lawyer, according to Danehy, and asked him to have the boxes removed. That night, Dane­by said, the boxes were gone. 
Danehy has ''gone back to work'' in his laboratory until a decision is area of crime for students," he continued. "We recovered the items stolen from one student house awhile ago and apprehended the two people responsible, who were 16 and 17 years old. A pretty 
-,--~ ---......... -~........... -I: .&.1..--­
guuu pen.:e•na~e u1 u1use apprt:­hended are juveniles, or young adults. Juvenile offenders are handled differently from adults, however; they are released to their parents and, chances are, they're back out on the streets the next day." 
"We would like to get a list of off-campus students, where they live, particularly in the northeast section of the city, and concentrate our efforts on these areas,'' added Molnar. He also advised students to ma~e it difficult for burglars to 
Your Source for the Unusual in Diamonds and Precious Gems Platinum and Gold Jewelry 
You'll find untold treasures of the finest quality brought to Y9U by the eye of an expett * And sold with the care of a professional.* 
Insurance appraisals and purchases of fine diamonds and estate jewelry provided. 
*Graduate Gemologist: Gemological Institute of America *Fellow Gemmologist: Gemmological Associat1on of Great Bntain 
enter their homes by having secure 
locks and latches, and to trv to ~~~ 
out for each other, especiatly over 
weekends when no one is home and 
newspapers and mail can accum­
ulate outside. 
Scott Sullivan also pointed out 
that a meeting for the Northeast 
Neighborhood council, to discuss 
area crime with South Bend police 
and fellow students, will be held 
tonight at 7 p.m. at 803 Notre 
Dame Avenue. 
~Cleveland Club 
sign-ups 
tomorrow 

Sign-ups for the Cleveland Club October break bus will be held tomorrow from 6 to 7 p.m. in the Grace Pit, and from 7 to 8 p.m. in the LeMans Lobby at St. Mary's. 
The bus will leave Notre Dame for Cleveland at 6 p.m. on Saturday after the USC game. The round­trip price is $20 for members and $23 for non-members. 
For further information, students should contact Mike (1858) or Dave (1795) at Notre Dame, or Debbie (4729) at St. Mary's. 
this friday and every friday 5 :15 mass & supper 
en 
r..~~ ...... 
rn1n1<>tr-; 

wife role at the same time. 
.70 Glass said that she feels support 
.60
from hiring institutions is needed 
.50

in order to bring about changes in the present system. She expressed .40 the opinion that employers must .30 disregard the myths connected 
.20
with working women. Women 
.10
today are not just working for ''pin 

money" or "until they get mar­



ried,'' she commented. 

As a possible' solution to the AL BA BP CR CV Dl FA Fl FL GR HC HO KE LE LY MO PI¥ SE SO ST WA ZA I:.~ problem of careers and marriage,
Glass cited the example of a couple RATIO IS I STUDENTS CONTRIBUTING $1.110 OR MORE DIVIDED BY TOTAL NUMBER OF STUDENTS , I· 
inSwedenwhoboth reduced their,._------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~~~----------------~· 

Thursday, October 13, 1977
the observer 

Abortion deadlockcripples other programs 
WASIDNGTON [AP] -A congres­money while it argues whether tax by tomorrow, unemployment of­Bi-weekly paychecks for HEW ees, told the crowd. sional deadlock over federal fund­funds included in the bill should be fices in Kansas, Pennsylvania, and Labor department employees Rally leaiers .urged workers not ina of abortions is beginning to nc;:plf to no'~" for ahnri1on~ nntiPr Arizona and Delaware will close, will shrink t0 .h!!!f-!!iz~_; !!ex.t \V~~!r.. to staop ,;;irlronh: or worlr ,;;lnw­
,..-.; __ ... f-1 .....] A.VA. -~V•••w>6AU _ ..._....,., 

·--·--.... ------·""' ...,,.. .. -·-_......... cripple unemployment a~d welfare federal medical aid programs. ending jobless insurance benefits because of the congressional inac­downS. "Congress is on strike programs in some states, the Labor Secretary Ray Marshall to three million persons. tion and then will come to a halt against its workers, not workers on Carter administration said yester and HEW Secretary Joseph Calif­In addition, he said, "Our safety until the abortion funding dispute strike against the government,"
and health compliance inspections, is resolved.
day. ano both urged Congress to adopt said one leader of Local 12. In some jurisdictions, thousands temporary funding measures to investigations of equal pay, age At the Labor Department, SOO to The Labor Department sent a of poor people and others depend­keep programs running and pre­discrimination and minimum wage 600 federal workers held a rally on letter to each employee advising ent on government benefits were vent a salary cutoff for the 1SO,OOO complaints have been severely their lunch hour yesterday to what to do about creditors. ''I urge
curtailed except for emergencies.''
threatened with cutoffs of funds employees of the departments and protest the loss of wages. "The each creditor to be empathetic and beginning today. And hundreds of 7S,OOO workers in state unemploy­At HEW, Califano said benefits babies and the banker and the humane is dealing with the indivi­federal workers protested loss of ment offices. will be cut off for thousands of poor builders don't want to hear about dual financial problems which may pay held hostage by the dispute. However, House leaders oppose people, children, the sick, aged and abortion,'' Russell Binion, presi­face the employees of the Depart­
At stake on Capitol Hill is a $60 any interim funding, saying the disabled unless Congress acts by dent of Local 12 of the American ment of Labor for the next few billion appropriation for the depart­abortion question could prevent today. Federation of Government Employ-weeks," Marshall said. ments of Labor and Health, Educa­passage of that type of measure as Specifically, he said New York 
tion and Welfare (HEW) well. would not be able to pay its welfare 
Kempf outlines proce-dures
Because the appropriation is stuck The full effect that might result workers, that Texas is laying off 
.. ­

;..... r-----~ -.-.c-c-thn~~ fip"..,_.._Pntc:: .f.,.....,_ ---!.&.LL-1..:1:_,.. +hoQ ... -----~-~ h 11 o:::._,nlnv.,. ....... "11'1",.1 T-' t , 
V~""' \..U.&..,av.t"C,...-c;::t LU.&U J.Uao~ ~~ ~~!"!-....-..-----.... . ---. -· ran out of funds on Sept. 30, the tions was not known. M~;;hall ning out ofmoney for its nutritional 
•U \..,Vllo~l~.31~t "''"'""'......, --..t'o.&.'-111'-'aal.~ UVJU WllJUl\JJUUlllt: UJ..\.. cllJUI"UIJrJ::I ... 
Tor un1vers1ty neat1ng
close of the last ftscal year. listed several examples, however. aid and community services for the 


Congress is holding up the He said that unless action is taken aged. 
k'i\a i I) >H4~' II
~T 
TO NORTH VILLAGE MALL 

Now 17th Record Week! in fantastic Dolby Stereophonic Sound t-­

..::s~
i Liquor tore ; 
No passes or
7:00-9:30 
discount tickets

I RHINE CROWN WHITE TAVERNI 
·.LIEBFRAUMILCH BLENDED 
I
WHISKEY 

Ends Tonite f t $299 a fifth $399 a fifth "Cousin, Cousine" 7:30--9:45
I 
STARTS FRIDAY

I I
Bud 
EXTRAORDINARY!

1WHITE TAVERN 12 pack cans 1 
You've never seen anything like it. .. · 
'346 
Because there's never been anything

I GIN or VODKA 1 
like it. 
I s379 

lltth Pabst I 
I or I
1 3 for $1Qgg 12 pack cans I
I s3os I I mix or match warm or cold I I
I PRICES GOOD THROUGH OCT. 15 
1723 South Bend Ave1• l 
.._______________,
Proprietors Jim-class of 63 Chuck-class of 65 I
\ 


::<:-:-:.:-. :-:.:-;.•. ;. .•'..; :<................~~;. 
Picasso Van Gogh Dali Bosch Escher Wyeth Rosemond 
I 

~F 
Prints by over 800 artists ~J: 
I. New Editions by Escher, ART PRINT SALE . 
0 Rosemond, Friday
c: Indian Photos by Curtis l!.·:­
liJ :-:­
&! Last Day
I 

~-:::
LOW STUDENT
:-c 

Oct. 14
·C: PRICES 
.. ~ 
Cll 
.·. Cll 
& Most Large Prints 
3 for $6.00 
:-. Small Prints 
-~
.. 3 for $4.00
·cv 
:>. 
-~ 
. I 

WHERE? LaFortune Student Center 



I 

300 DALI, SALVADOR
-6 Sacrament, Last Supper
TIME? 
.· Cll 

:~ 9:00am to 5:00pm 
!i 
.. I 
Cll 
c: 

Enhance your dorm room or .IX'}
0 

:E Sponsored By: apartment with full color 9-::: Lafortune Student Center reproductions of master-~ ::: pieces. Huge selection. ::: ::~ Many, many artists. ·· 
·:· /\' ·-----He(J------·lf699'Uel\-:.,. OSSir.l!d'·: ''~J~OUCQJ-pU:owaS"fJM ... ·lfJa,{-M· ...·..) 
by Todd Starlch turned off at around 11 or 12 p.m., 
except in cold weather. "When the 
Recognizing the possibility of temperature gets down to SO 
another long, cold winter, Kenneth degrees, you can expect the heat to 
Kempf, assistant director of u­be on for the bulk of the time." 
tilities, commented on the Univer­Kempf explained that the power 
sity heating system and proced­plant tries to maintain an indoor 
ures. temperature of about 70 degrees, 
According to Kempf, heat is but he termed the heating system 
supplied to the dormitories when "rather ancient" and admitted that 
the temperature is "in the SO-SS occasionally problems can arise. 
degree range." He added that "In most cases there is only one 
other factors, such as the wind and inside stat and only one valve 
preceding weather conditions are regulating the heat to a dorm.'' 
also taken into account. He added that most of the 
Commenting on the recent thermostats are located "in a 
weather, Kempf stated, "The last corridor on the first or second 
few days we've had temperatures floor," and feedback from a dorm 
in the S8-60 degree range, and usually comes from this single 
we've been turning the heat on for source. Kempf said that usually 
a couple of hours in the morning." the problems occur when the 
Kempf said that usually the heat is temperature is between 4S and SO 
degrees, when underheating or 
IUSB approves overheating of a dorm" can result 
because of this limited feedback.election for union If a student feels that his room is too cold, he can call the powerThe trustees of Indiana Univer­plant, although the call might not 
sity at South Bend (I.U.S.B.) met accomplish much. "We log all last week at the Gary campus and calls, but if just a single student 
approved a representative election calls, we can't heat up the entire with the American Federation of 
building," Kempf said. "If it 
State, County and Municipal mvolves something like an entire 
Employees. floor, then we can do something ,
According to Walter Collins, but because of the expense in­assistant to the chancellor for volved we can't heat up a whole University Relation at I.U.S.B., a building because one student in a request was made to the adminis­corner on the top floor is cold.'' He tration that service and mainte­stated that the idea is to try to keep 
nance personnel be allowed to hold waste at a minimum, and that the 
an election to determine if they buildings are surveyed for open
could be represented by Local 832 windows and the like. 
of this union. The Board of Kempf commented that he would Trustees agreed to the election at like to see students have individual their October meeting. thermostats which they "could The situation involves 40 main­adjust to their liking, with a limit of 
tenance and service employees who about 73-74 degrees. He also 
would be covered by the union, revealed that most of a recent $1.6 
Collins said. Although the date of million housing and urban de­
the election has not yet been velopment (HUD) fund wiii be 
decided, Collins stated that a applied toward dormitory temp­
representative from the local union erature control. 
will meet with University officials · 

soon to discuss plans for the United Way
election. 
I.U.S.B. officials see no pro­
meeting set
blems with the proposed unioniza­

tion, and they will not try to There will be an important 
prevent the formation of a union, meeting for all South Bend United 
Collins revealed. "If the employ­Way campaigners tonight from 
ees want to be represented by this 5: 1S to 6:30 p.m. at the Beiger 
union, then it is fine with the Home, 317 Lincolnway East, Mish­
University," he concluded. awaka. 
The Commons 
across from Corby's 
826 Eddy 233-0875 
Italian Pizza Italian Sandwiches 
Monday-Saturday ­10:30am-1:OOam 
Carry out-Pizza & Uquor 
(formerly qiff's) 
rr:~~-r:~>:::::~~~~;;:~::~~<·:·:~~~;~;;-~:;~~~::2~:~·;:~;;~:~~~~~~~;~;-~::~~~=:~:l~I~D~-:~:g~:~c:::~:~~~2t:.:::;::~·:·i::;;·~·~:t ..:-." ~--~:.·~ .-. :.:.-..·.·--.·...·.;..:,:.·.:,·:.:-~ ··.,,. 

Professor William Lenahan stressed the control of tone while discussing American literature.]Photo by lisa Becker] 
Lenahan lecture compares 19th to 20th century writers 
by Ellen Buddy 
Nineteenth Century American Literature was the topic of last 
night's  American  Scene  Lecture  
Series.  Professor William Lenahan  
of  the  University  of  Wisconsin  

presented the lecture. comparing such nineteenth authors as Twain, Crane and Kate Chopan to the modern authors, Hemmingway, Fitzgerald and Faulkner. 
Lenahan stressed the control of tone. "the author's ability to control the reader's attitude toward the material". The nineteenth century authors lead the way in tone control through their succes­ses and failures. he said. 
Lenahan focused directly upon the new ideas of the nature of man at the turn of the century and commented that the twentieth cen­tury authors had a hard time following in the footsteps of their contemporaries because they could not accept these new concepts of the nature of man. 
As twentieth century literature progressed, the authors lost sight of the theme in literature and tended toward the technique, losing the effect of the literary 
Lewis offers Italian dinner 
Italian cuisine and musical enter­tainment are being offered this year at Lewisio's on Fridays at 7 
p.m. The basement of Lewis hall provides an Italian atmosphere for the dinners which include spag­hetti, garlic bread. salad, dessert, and a beverage. The price of the meal is $2.00 for all vou can eat. 
Carin Pacifico and Marita Lipka manages of Lewisio's explained the development of the Friday night dinners as a way of providing ''a good meal for guys who miss home-cooking or a nice place for couples who can't get off campus to have dinner." 
Lewisio's was started last year as a source of income for Lewis hall. Because of its success, it continues opeation this year with only slight 
modifcations which include the addition of musical entertainment, an improved atmosphere and a 
slight increase in price. 
R""""'tion•. whkh ""Y be ob­
~;::.~>~~:~~~.;7if~.~~~ ·~~~::~ 
will lecture on "The Paper-Making Industry" tonight at 7 p.m. in Room 303 of the Engineering 
Building. 
All engineering students are invited to attend. Refreshments will be served after the lecture. 

meaning, he added. 
Lenahan concluded, "Good or simply almost good, these works illustrated the basic nature of on-going literary tradition. Tradi­tion is one of our most valuable cultural possessions. To keep it up, we must read. ·• 
----. 
Thursday, October 13, 1977 the observer 
Carter signs new housing bill 
-----------=---------~-­
WASHINGTON (AP] • The Cart­er administration's first new urban program was signed into law yesterday promising billions for ravaged American cities and their poor and out of work residents. 
The $14.7 billion housing bill includes an expansion of the Com­munity Development program, with an emphasis on older cities, as well as more money for housing pro~rams and rent subsidies for poor families. 
The rent subsidies plus added financial !lid to hard-pressed cities will help an additional 345,000 families find housing at rents they can afford, according to the Depart­ment of Housing and Urban Devel­opment. 
At the same time, administrati.on officials estimate the measure will provide a half million jobs in construction and related industries where unemployment rates are the highest. 
On the heels of his eye-opening tour last week of the South Bronx, President Carter said as he signed the legislation that it will provide "a giant step forward" in improv­ing urban living conditions. 
"The bill is a big improvement in giving more attention to the older, central cities," says Richard 
HELD OVER
~ Town &Coumry~ 
1:45-3:45-5:45-7:45-9:45 


THIS MOVIE IS TOTALLY 
THEATRE at8:00 p.m. 
All seats $2.50 O'Laughlin ($2 Std-Fac-Staff) Phone: 284-4176
Auditorium 

SEASON TICKETS STILL AVAILABLE...............•.... 
4 PLAYS $9 ($7 Std-Fac-Staff) Includes: COMEDY OF ERRORS, CAUCASIAN CHALK CIRCLE, TOUCH OF A POET, and THE MIKADO 
0 • 
STARTS FRIDAY :;:: STARTS FRIDAY ;:;: 
s~ll~~'l~, r AT6,30-9,15 f 
2-430-7 00.30 ~~~~;;, 1
l 1 


;:;: ·:·: :;:; :;:: 
·.·. ••·.
:·:· :·:;
:;:: ::;. 
:::: · :::: 
~-:~.!.~. 'IPGI<e Panavisim® Cdcri'J~Iuxe® -~~_.:_:~.: ONE WEEK ONLY! Distributed by Warner Bros "" DON'T MISS IT! ~~~~ __
_A_W_a_rne_rC_om_m_u_nica_t_ion_s_Co_mp_an_y_~ ·~~~~ 
Nathan, urban expert at the Brook­ings Institution. "It will help a lot of big Northern cities, but also the inner ring suburbs and more than a few Sunbelt cities." 
New elements in the community development program include a $400 million Urban Action Grant fund for spurring economic devel­opment in the nation's most trou­bled cities. The bill includes a formula that drastically increases federal aid to cities in the Northeast and the Midwest but also provides a trickle more money for growing cities of the South and West. 
Carter said his visit to the South Bronx revealed slums that are "a disgrace to our great country." 

In fact ghetto-marked cities like New York, Detroit and Baltimore will receive millions of dollars more under the Carter housing bill than 
they  were  to  receive  under  the  
'expiring legislation.  
The  housing  and  community  

development bill, product of a two-month conference between the House and Senate, extends the community development program for revitalizing cities for three years and funds it with a total of $10.9 billion, a $2.4 billion increase. 
Included in the housing bill is $1.2 billion in rent subsidies for low-income families, as well as a variety of subsidies for homeown­ers and the housing industry. 

notre dame student union & sunshine promotions 
presents 

introducing 
The Norton Buffalo Stampede FRIDAY, OCTOBER 21 8:00PM Notre Dan1e ACC 
Tickets: $8.00, $7.00 
All Seats Reserved 
on sale now at the ACC box office & the student union box office 
~RIVER PARK I] STATE ~SCOTTSDALE I] TOWN &COUNTRY 1&2 
Mishawaka Avenue at 30th .·.· Downtown So Bend :::: Scottsdale Mall Town & Country Shoppmg Center Telephone 288-8488 ;:;: Telephone 233-1676 :;:: Telephone 291 _ ·.·. Telephone 2 59 _
4583 9090
·rr--------~--------------~··f.··--------------------------~~~··--~~~~~~~~~------~:::~:--~~~~~::~~~:_----U 
HELD OVER .·.· 
SHOWS

13 r :Jf!!--rJiiiil 
30-:;;;::.:"' •••• 1~~~ ltlf_:f) -
Kiddy Show Sat &Sun ~~~~ The All New ::::
"PIPPI ON THE RUN" G ••••

:::: Shows
All Seats $1.25 :::: 1·30 
Shows at 1:00 :;:: 3:
30 SNEAK PREVIEW :::: 5:30 SUNDAY AT 7:30 ~-~~-~ ~~ 30 
\'OH, 60D" PG l .. 

A UNIVERSAL P1cture · Technicolor® 


opinion~~~~~~~~~ 
A Thought for Founder's Day 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiCathy hedge s 
Ifone walks around campus at any given time and eavesdrops on the daily conversations of the passing students, one will inevitably hear all sorts of complaints floating around, i.e. the food is terrible, I hate studying, the social life is lacking, I hate parietals. We think the rules are strict now, but if our founders, Fr. Sorin and the Holy Cross Nuns, could pay a visit to St. Mary's today, they would probably die of shock ... 
Let's go back to 1903, when the school catalogue described the primary aim of St. Mary's as the training of "the heart as well as the mind, to form women who will grace society ... and honor and edify it with their virtues.'' Our parietals may be limiting today, but the girls in 1903 were not allowed visitors at all on the grounds the "frequent and protracted visits are highly detrimental to the
~. .. . 
improvement of the pupils.'' The girls wore a uniform dress of navy wool, and "the uniforms must be made without silk linings or silk trimmings." The use of jewelry was prohibited. Pupils were alloted three-four hours per week for letter writing, but they could not write to anyone their parents had not approved. Under "Eatables" in the catalogue; "hence, consideration of health compel us to say that confectionary, or other eatables sent or brought to pupils will not be delivered." Tuition was about $300.00 per year, but the girls had to bring their own table utensils, of course. The curriculum of the Collegiate Course included Church Doctrine, Church History, Latin, Greek, Philosophy, literature, and Music courses. 
Today, October 13th, is the traditional Founder's Day celebration Primary Day School to see the Bugs of our 133rd year in existence. Of course we have occasional
University
Bunny Superstar movies, was mis­complaints-such seems to be the nature of human beings-but let's takenly given to another volunteer take stock of the advantages we have. Our Founder's Day

'Jolly Ollie' 

organization. After having no inconsistent resolution could be to show our gratitude to the sisters of the Holy success in my attempts to locate an Cross, w· J have been dedicated to the excellence of St. Mary'sDear Editor: alternate vehicle, I asked Fr. Dear Editor: throughout our history. SMC is a good place to be, and we shouldIn regard to Russ O'Brien's le_tter Toohey if it would be possible to appreciate what we are; simply, the best Catholic women's collegeabout friendliness between use the Campus Ministry station This is in response to the amicus in the United States.
personnel hcre-l'd like to applaud wagon. Understanding my plight, curiae brief filed in the SupremeSecurity Officer "JOLLY OLLIE" Fr. Toohey consented to my re­Court by the University, supporting Editor's Note: Cathy Hedges is SMC student vice president forat the Juniper Road entrance. 
quest. As a result. thirty underpri­preferential treatment systems of academice affairs. 
Every a.m. his warm greeting and vileged kids from the west side of education. We feel this to be wave to us is a great way to start South Bend were able to spend an inconsistent with previous Univer­the day! 
Practices,

enjoyable afternoon at Notre sity policies on human rights. that the use of the word "effi­Mrs. Decker 
Dame. Judging a person's qualifications ciency" is merely a matter of Terence Joiner for admission by race and ethnic comments expediency here.Let students background is discrimination, But the larger issue concerns clearly and simply'· They can call what appears to be an ongoing
Students may disturbing
it "preferential treatment" or trend. The anti-black discrimina­ruin clothes be more "affirmative action" if they want Dear Editor: tion of students from the Judicial to, but the fact remains -it is Outside of any possible unfair board, and now the alleged hinder­Dear Editor: efficient discrimination. Granted, there labor practices by the University in ance of the grounds-keepers' right It would be nice if the Teamsters have been injustices in the past, the firing of the groundskeepers, to organize, all give cause to
Dear Editor: 

would organize the Laundry Sys­but further injustice only makes the there are a couple of disturbing wonder when seen in the light of tem. When the university fires the situation worse. It seems that, questions that have been raised by constant preaching about "human
I cut grass when. I was in second 

women, all of us guys could ruin once again, we are using race and administration comments and prac­rights" and "human dignity." It
grade. It was easy. My father and 

our own clothes for a lot less ethnic background as criteria for tices. seems that as far as the administra­
I used to rake leaves and pick up

money. selection. This is an immense step The first is the justification of the tion is concerned, it is all right to
trash. Anyone can do the job of the 

Kevin Maher backward! It is exactly what this hiring of an outside firm for apply these to far-off third world
majority of the groundskeepers.

John whn country has been trying to avoid for reasons of "efficiency." I seem to countries, draft dodgers, etc., but
Fire the inefficient workers and the past 30 years. Universities recall a high administration official not in our own back yard, heavengive jobs to anyone who is willing should be dedicated, first and saying last year, during the discus­forbid. Unless the administration to do them correctly and well. The

Toohey saves 
foremost, to academic excellence. sion of the problems of the NO wants these claims to dissolve intosalaries need not be much for Institutions of higher learning laundry, that one of the Univer­so much empty rhetoric (if theymenial labor. Why not let Notrechildren's should set an example by dealing sity's main concerns in maintaining have not already), it had better
Dame students cut the grass? 

fairly and equally with people from the laundry was that many of the wake up and smell the coffee andStudents would be more willing to all backgrounds. They can be the people employed there would pro­put them into practice here at
day 
do a job that will keep their school ones to prove that race need nof be bably have a hard time finding home. 

Dear Editor: well maintained. They would be a consideration. This is a great but work elsewhere, and that Notre Matt Kennelly With this letter I would like to more efficient if well supervised, honorable challenge. Dame had a "responsibility" to the •--'~A,.......wll--•1\1111--~
e..:tend my most sincere gratitude which would cut down the hours of If the universities are to meet people of South Bend, particularlyto Fr. William Toohey for his pay. 
this challenge, an admissions to its low-income and less skilledWe are looking for a more
assistance this past weekend. This policy based on race is clearly workers. 
past Friday afternoon I was faced efficient system. Maybe a new inadequate. The quality of any Presumably, since many of theneed come
with a dilemma when I learned that maintenance crew not student is the only just criterion for groundskeepers are members of
the van, which I had reserved so from an outside source. 
choosing him or her over another. minonty groups, their case isthat a few Notre Dame students We see this as an opportunity for analogous to that of the laundrycould bring the children from the Rob Wettach 
Notre Dame to lead the way, but by workers. If this place were to be ·filing this brief, they may actually run "efficiently" like a profit-mak­be fostering the continuance of ing business, a lot of extraneous discrimination in America. dining hall workers, maintenance employees, maids, and even stu­Bob Southard dent workers would be among the ·Tom Haller first to go, causing considerable Jerry Murphy economic dislocation. The Univer­Doug Dickinson sity itself has admitted its "respon­AI Himebaugh sibility" to South Bend, so it seems 


EDITORIAl BOARD an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's Marti Hogan Editor-in-Chief Martha Fanning Managing Editor Bob Brink Asst. Managing Ed 
*The Observer 
The Observer is published by students of the University of 
Kathy Mills Executive Editor
Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. It does not 
Maureen Flynn Editorial Editor
necessarily reflect the policies of either institution. The 
Barb Breitenstein Exec. News Editor
news is reported as accurately and as objectively as 
Jean Powley St. Mary's Editor
possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of 
Katie Kerwin News Editor
the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters 
Barb langhenry News Editor
·are the views of their authors. Column space is available 
Paul Stevenson Sports Editor
to all members of the community, and letters are 
Pat Cole Special Projects Ed.
encouraged to promote the free expression of varying 
David O'Keefe Features Editor
opinions on campus. 

Business Manager Sue Quigley BoxQ Advertising Manager Steve Bonomo ·Notre Dame Copy Editor Joan Fremeau Production Manager Karen Chiames Ind. 46556 Photo Editor Leo Hansen 
Thursday, October 13, 1977 
~ 10-/3 
otoHe U/I:E IT? 
) 
~ 
::>I 
m 
ffi 
§ z 
tiJVEO IT/ IE EVEN 
IAEAAS rna fJXRK... BUT, /.lXI:, 7Hiff flV(f Of HCR LIFE IS NONe 
OF MY BUSIIVESS! 
-...... 

Chairperson named for Senior Class Fellow 
by Pat Dermody 
Elizabeth Naquin, a senior from Elkhart, Indiana has 
been named the Senior Class Fellow Committee 
chairperson it was announced yesterday. Naquin was 
selected by the Senior Class Officers and John Reid 
assistant director of Student Activities. She was one of 
six persons who applied for the job. 
"~h.at we ~ere looking for," said Mary Lou 
Mulvth!ll, Semor Class vice president, "was a 
responsible person. We wanted someone who was able 
to get along with people and who also had some 
leadership experience." Mulvihill added that "all of 
the al?pli~ants were ~ell-qualified and extremely 
enthus1asttc about workmg on the committee." 
Naquin said she was informed that she had been 
selec!ed early Monday night. "I was thrilled," she 
exclatmed, ''because I think I will really enjoy the 
involvem~nt. It ~~ a great way t? meet new people," 
she contmued, as well as bemg a good learning 
experience. 

~en asked a?out her ideas for the program Naquin 
decltned to mentton the names of any possible Fellows. 
"I'll make no decisions personally," she said. 
"Everything will be decided by the class." 
She stressed however, that she would like to have ~me faculty input in the nominations. "I would really ltke to see some personalities with real depth of character up for nomination," Naquin concluded. 
Thursday, October 13. 1977 the observer 
7 

200 volunteers 
CILA provides service programs 
by Sam Fink 

One of the most expansive 
. community service programs at Notre Dame is executed by CILA: the Council for International Lay Apostlate. With a membership of nearly 200 students and faculty members, CILA has as its main concerns summer projects in rural and urban areas and local com­munity services for the South Bend area, according to Mark Heberlein, head of CILA's Community Service Branch. 
Chess games scheduled for Friday nights 
The Notre Dame Chess Club has announced that each Friday even­ing, beginning tomorrow, Room 325 of the Computing Center and Mathematics Building will be open 
at  7 p.m.  for chess games.  All  
students  interested  in  chess  are  
invited to attend.  

There are six principal organiza­tions for which the group provides volunteers at this time, Heberlein noted. The focus of these agencies are the elimination of major social ills affecting our modern society. 
At the head of the list is CILA's newest undertaking: the Elderly Discount Program, Heberlein said. This project was initiated by CILA, he explained, following the re­commendation of member Tony Bruno, who noted that similiar programs had proved successful in large urban centers such as Mil­waukee, WI. 
This service, in the planning stage, will provide Souh Bend residents, age 65 and over, dis­counts of ten to fifteen percent at local retail stores. "The greate;;t income relief will be in the costs of groceries and pharmacueticals," Heberlein believes. Members are contacting nearby businesses, do­ing community research to evaluate the desire of senior citizens for such an agency, and distributing program cards to eligible indivi­duals. 
EARN OVER $600 AMONTH FOR THE REST OF YOUR SENIORYEAR. Ifyou are interested in math, physics or engineering, the Navy has a program you should know about. It's called the NUPOC-Collegiate Program (NUPOC is short for Nuclear Propulsion Officer Candidate), and if you qualify it can pay you as much as $611 a month for the remainder ofyour senior year. Then after 16 weeks of Officer Candidate School, you will receive an additional year ofadvanced technical education, education that would cost thousands in a civilian school, but in the Navy we pay you. And at the end ofthe year oftraining, you'll receive a $3,000 cash bonus. It isn't easy. Only one ofevery six applicants will be selected, and there are fewer than 300 openings. But those who make it find themselves in one ofthe most elite engineering training programs anywhere. With unequalled hands-on responsibility, a $24,000 salary in four years, plus travel, medical benefits and education opportunities. For more details on this program, ask your placement officer when a Navy representative will be on campus, or call the Officer Program Office listed below; or send your r~sume to Navy Nuclear Officer Program, Code 312, 4015 Wilson Blvd., Arlington, Va. 22203. The NUPOC-Collegiate Program. It can do more than help you finish college; it can lead to an exciting opportunity. 
OFFICER PROGRAMS OFFICE, NAVY RECRUITING DISTRICT, 312-657-2169 
NAVY OFFICER. ITS NOTJUSTAJOB, IT'S AN ADVENTURE. 
CILA hopes that the system will be fully operable at the pnset of the second semester, Heb~rlein said Since Research Servi~es Inc., a.,. other local firm, failed at a similiar task, the project will be an uphtil battle, he explained. Nevertheless, "CILA is optimistic about the chance for success and hopes to enlarge the plans substantially enough for the city of South Bend to take over the project." 
Among other local interests, Heberlein stated that CILA volun­teers work at Portage Manor, a St. Joseph county nursing home for the elderly and disabled. The imput here is in recreational activi­ties. 
At the Northeast Neighborhood 
Center, located five blocks froJn campus, the group is involved~in both urban renewal and neighb r­hood organization, he stated Some ofthe problems faced incl <e preventing high school trua~' ', alleviating illiteracy by teach,iLg English to non-English speakh ;;; people, and fighting malnutrition among the elderly, he explained. 
CILA members also arrange field trips, recreation, and Big Brother and Big Sister programs at Misha­waka's Family and Children Cen­ter. They are involved with children, 9 to 18 years old, who come from disrupted families. 
Another recent undertaking of 
CILA workers, according to Heber­
lein, is participation in Birth Right, 
and agency which aids pregnant 
women with special attention 
directed towards unwed expectant 
mothers. The group offers coun­
selling and referral aids to the 
women, he said. CILA volunteers 
administer pregnancy tests, per­
form clerical work, and assist in 
counselling. 
Corvilla House, a home for the 
physically and mentally handicap­
ped of all ages, is yet another 
activity in which members offer 
their help. The main type of work 
here, Heberlein noted, is in the 
range of household chores and 
recreational activities. Members ­
deal directly with the 17 residents, 
age 6 to SO years, who are both 
educably and ineducably retarded. 
CILA programs are scheduled, 
Heberlein explained, so that the 
volunteers work for one or two 
hours weekly and do not conflict 
with scholastic and other extracur­
ricular activities. Besides their 
projects, the members join in 
various social events such as 
picnics, retreats, and parties. 
Anyone interested in further 
information on CILA may attend a 
general meeting this Sunday at 7 
p.m. in the Library Auditorium. They may also call Mark Heberlein at either 8540 or 8552. 
Bar-B-Que & 

'-Beer 
~~~ 

Restaurant 
\S' 

aod LDunge 
Featuring the finest 
in hickory smoked 
barbeque-cooked over 
an open pit with special 
sauce 
Thursday is 
. '­
_,.e <9<9 ~ 
~V' A •a 

q ~~·~ 
~ . ,.. (/>'? -..a -~ 
b.I-I;!i: SoccerQ}'? 
9-~losing Happy_ Hour Pri~s 
11,32 S. Bend1 4-3 a.m. daily
Ave. 
closed Sun.

Phone 
and Mon.

219-0639 

----~--­
Thursday, October 1.3, 1977
8 
the observer 

Homecoming plans announced 
by Dave Brehl 

This year's Homecoming Week, "The Fall of Troy", begins Mon­day and will feature a variety of events and activities planned by the Student Union Social Commis­sion. The week will culminate in the student-alumni Homecoming Dance following the Notre Dame­USC game a week from Saturday. 
The dance, "Those Were the Davs," will be held in the ACC co;tcourse from 9 p.m. to 1 a.m. ··Dance-band type" music will be provide by Tony Barron and his Orchestra. Dress for the evening will be semi-formal. 
Tickets for the dance at $6 per couple go on sale in both dining 
contest will take place on Friday. 
Prizes of $250, $150 and $100 will 
be awarded to the first. second and 
third-place halls. respectively. 
• 

•e 
Special 10% Discount : On All Merchandise To Notre Dame 

• 
& Saint Mary's Students. e


••••••••••••••••••••••• Zahm, Farley plan 'Block party'
PHOJoOy~~~!u~ERS'] 
Zahm and Farley halls, in con­junction with the Student Union :~:~ Social Commission, are sponsoring a ""Block party" from 7:30 to 11:3035 mm slides? f p.m. tomorrow on the North Quad
:·:·
·:·: between the two halls. The band 
At 
Slidecraft we specialize in processing Kodak's :::: "Night Flight" will perform and
·.·. 
-refreshments will be served. 
In case of rain. the party will be held in Stepan Center. 
Come in and sign up for a Student Discount Card. 
~=~= ~ ~ ~ ~ 

9-11 pm , Open stage
Tonight


i ~~!.!~ .~!~~~!~~ 4~ .·.· .·.· 
Fri. 10-12pm Joe Carey and
l~ll:::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:::::::::::::::::::::;:::::::::::::::::::::::}:~:~~:~:~~:~::;:::;:::::::::::;:::::::;:;:::::::::::::::::::;:::::::;:::::::::::::::::::~~~ 
Bob Sullivan Kevin Quigley 
No admission cha 
Ladies Nite Thursday 10-12pm 

SWIM WEAR &T-SHIRTS 3 Bud, Lite, Miller 
FOR s1
ATHLETIC BAGS Most Mixed Drinks 
100 CENTER 
255...7770 

riday Special12-2pm and 5-7 pm
MISHAWAKA 
3 Beers for s1 

halls during dinner on Monday and USC game. . Tuesday. Homecoming Committee A "Fall of Troy" Homecoming Co-Chairmen Diane Ross and Mike Night at the Senior Bar will be held Kammerdiener advise, however, on Wednesday, featuring special that only a limited number of low prices on drinks. Also on tickets will be sold. Wednesday, Astrid Hotvedt of the 
Contests, rallies, and a special physical educaion department will price night at The Library and instruct a one-hour "instant dance Senior Bar are among the activities course" for those unfamiliar with scheduled for the week preceing th dance-band dancing, starting at Homecoming game and dance. 7:30 p.m. in the LaFortune Ball-The "Where's Helen of Troy" room. contest got underway yesterday 
On Thursday, The Library barwith WSND radio announcing clues will host a Miller Homecomingto Helen's location. The first prize Hour with special low-priced drinkswinner of the contest, to be from 6 to 10 p.m. On campus thatselected next Tuesday, will receive evening a pep ralley will be a pair of tickets to the dance, a pair conducted outside of Sorin Hall.
of tickets forth Steve Miller concert Judging of the hall decoratingon Oct. 21 and two tickets to the 
• Ross urges students to be inno­
• 
• 
vative this year in decorating the halls. "We'd like to see something other than sheets with signs painted on them--perhaps a three­
• 
• 
dimensional display of some sort,'' she stated. Ross added that any hall displaying signs judged to be obscene will be eliminated from the 
• 
competion. 
Scheduled for Friday evening are the usual pre-game rally in Stepan Center at 7:30p.m., and a "Home­
•e 
coming Gong Show" at the Nazz, beginning at 9 p.m. The Steve
: 
Miller Concert will be held at 8 
p.m. in the ACC. 
••·vc--~,., 

Dan Devine and Steve Orsini fielded many questions while entertaining a sizeable crowd in Fisher Hall last night. [Photo by . Lisa Becker1 
Courtis receives award 
by Cathy Murray 

Sandy Courtis, a St. Mary's senior, was recently awarded a $500 cash prize and a gold medal­lion accounting award as an out­standing business major with an acounting concentration by the Ernst and Ernst Accounting firm. This is the second year that such an award has been presented at St. Mary's. 
Ernst and Ernst ranks among the nation's major accounting firms and every year this award is given at a number of schools with accounting programs to encourage outstanding students to seek careers in public accounting. 
In order to receive this award, business majors with an accounting concentration may apply during tl.eir junior year of studies. The winner is announced during the spring semester of that year, and the award presented during the fall semester of senior year. 
The criteria considered in the presentation of this award include: scholarship, leadership, Clttzen­ship, character and extra-curricular activities. 
A resident of LeMans Hall. Courtis currentlv has an internship at the Bendix C~rp. in South Bend. She is the social commissioner of LeMans Hall and is active in the business club. Upon graduation Courtis hopes to work as an accountant for a major firm. 
The formal awards ceremony was held in the office of St. Mary's President John Duggan on Oct. 4. Also present at the ceremony were Bill Schmuhl. chairman of the business department and Richard Zona. manager of the South Bend office of Ernst and Ernst. 
Banker approves pumpkin loan 

BELLEVUE* WASH. (AP] -Bank Manager Wally Adam<; sat the 35 third-graders around his confer­ence table and told them yes, he would approve their $100 loan so they could go into the pumpkin business. 
But th~y have to repay it by Nov. 1 -with a 82 cents interest. With Adams' go-ahead, Lois Rich­ards, loan officer at the Bellevue branch of the Seattle First National Bank, processed the application yesterday. It didn't matter that none of the applicants could say how much they plan to pay for the pumpkins or how much they'll charge when they sell them to their classmates at St. Louise School. 
As head of the class foray into high finance, pupil Jason Mattingly signed on the dotted line. So did teacher Sheri Andrews, to make it legal. 
Pupil Siobain Guicon said he knew the class had done a lot better at the bank than it would have accepting a loan offer from a St. Louise teacher. 
"She said we had to pay $50 rent." he said. ''And we had to pay it back by Saturday," added another pupiI. 
What will happen if the money isn't there when the loan comes due? 
"We'll just write a check," one youngster said. If we only make like $80, we'd have to, uh, babysit.'' said Michael Osterhought. 
"Ifyou can't po:: it back, they take things you have,'' worrried another little fellow. "Your house, your car, your bike... " 
One little girl said the venture looked like a sure thing "on account of Halloween." 
Banker Adams didn't seem wor­ried about the possibility of a default. He said it was often good financial practice to borrow money to pay for an inventory. 
"We plan to discuss that," the teacher said. "We're going to talk about the idea of using money frivolously. This is just the first of the unit." 

/ NHL ~review 
Cont'd. 

in last year's playoffs, and they have dealt Montreal all three of their playoff losses in the last two years. Why? Because they play Montreal's style of hockey. Chico Resch and Billy Smith are the league's best g?alten~ing duo, a'!d the d~fense'!len, with th~.;x~ep!i~n o! Denis Po~in, 
-•......... .,~_..,. __ -· -~ .ll "~-~ .L'I.p. _.:....,._____.,._ ----~ _....,_..... ,..,.,...,..,_,....,....~ -.aorl 'fr ~
1\ 11 

.lJli:I.Y Ut::l~IIS~t! 3D0 lt:::l lJu,.. l.Vl waru::. :,l:UU;. .ruJ. UIC .li:.J.a.J.J.UIIO:a.-3 11~"-''--.1,;:, "­
50-goal scorer and their main hope is 6-3 left wing Clark Giiiies (33 and 34 goals the last two years(. Boston: The Bruins are reaping the rewards of their trades with the New York Rangers in which they got Jean Ratelle, Brad Park and Rick Middleton in exchange for stiffs named Esposito, Vadnais and Hodge. They have the offensive firepower to play with anyone, but they'll need steadier defensive play and better goaltending from Gerry Cheevers. Don't be surprised is WHA refugee Ron Grahame is in the nets before long. Philadelphia: The Flyers stiii don't seem to understand that you can't win the Stanley Cup with players in the penalty box. Not while Montreal, Boston and the Islanders are around. They have the best depth at forward in the league, but their defense is suspect. Bob Dailey, acquired from Vancouver, was a pleasant surprise and will be expected to provide steady Elay again,-More than anything, the Flyers wiii need a ret~~!~~ !3ernie 
J..J9f"PftT \Vnnnrn...,1: .L . .i'!-·1. l ;--.. '· -­
• ~·~•••• oW oem:neu lll Jasr year s piavotts.
oo """ 

Dark Horses: Toronto: Under new coach Roger Neilson, the Leafs may find the formula to help jell their nucleus of young talent. The Leafs possess an erratic but talented array of scorers (Sittler, McDonald, Williams( and solid defensemen (Salming, Turnbull(. Mike Palmateer, a rookie sensation last year, is a future superstar in the nets. This team could make a move on Boston or Buffalo. Buffalo: Marcel Pronovost is the new coach, inheriting a squad that has been beaten by the defense-minded Islanders two years straight. Despite the lP.ague's most explosive offense, this team will never win with Gerry Desjardins in goal. Los Angeles: Rogatien Vachon is the most underrated goalie in the league, and Marcel Dionne is a dynamic scorer. With those two players, any team could go far, but new coach Ron Steward proved in his first stint with the Rangers that he's not a NHL coach. Other Playoff Teams: Pittsburgh: The perfect example of this team is right wing Wayne Bianchin, who had 28 goals and 6 assists last year. They don't understand defense. Minnesota: ND alumnus Alex Pirus was one of four North Star rookies to score 20 goals last year. But despite a good offense, their defense is poor, and that prevents them from being serious contenders. St. Louis: They qualify out of default (Smythe Division). Before making any advances, the Blues must get rid of Emile Francis. Chicago: They also qualify out of default (Smythe Division). Their only positive point is Tony Exposito, one of the league's most persecuted goalies. 
N.Y. Rangers: This team only missed the playoffs by Mpoints last year. With the addition of goalie Wayne Thomas· and defensemen Don Awrey, and the development of younger players such as John Bednarski, Pat Hickey and Mike McEwen, the Rangers seem a good bet to overtake Atlanta. 
The Others: Atlanta: It's hard to imagine that a team with goalies such as Dan Bouchard and Phil Myre won't make the playoffs. Credit it to the toughest division in the league. Washington: The Caps actually showed signs of moving towards respectability last year. They stiii need someone who can score. 
Detroit: Although Ed Giacomin is their goalie, they are the worst team in the league. Vancouver: A team with some talent, but no front office knowledge. Colorado: Still the best name in the league, but no longer the worst team. They actually have a star in Wilf Paiement, only 22 but beginning his fourth year in the league. aeveland: Judging by their attendance figures, it's obvious no one cares. 
.....·.·.... -..:-·-·.·.·.;-:-:-:-:-:-···::::::< .·.·.· .. ·.·.· 
Strategy 
::_::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=:::::=:=:::::::::::::::::::::::=:=::::::·:·=·=:::::::::::=·=·=·:·:·=·=·=·:·:·:·:·:·:·::: Cont'd• 
Thursday, October 13, 1977 the observer 
Dodgers knot series at one· 
NEW YORK [AP] -Ron Cey, Steve Yeager and Reggie Smith rocked a rusty Catfish Hunter for huge home runs, and the explosion of Los 
• .. -......... ' 1_-~ ...... •
t-_..,....,,,..,... ....n,.,_r n!lf"II"Pn _.,,..,. .~."\.llb'C::H:;;:;:, pv.-."'... Hooton's five-hit pitching for a 6-1 victory over the New York Yankees in Wednesday night's second game of the 1977 World Series. The Dodger victory, constructed aroung the home runs and Hoo­ton's baffling knuckle-curve, tied the best-of-seven series at 1-1 with the next three games scheduled for Los Angeles beginning Friday night. Hunter, pitching for the first time in more than a month was a shell of a once-great pitcher, wallonecl "l"'""d <~t ,.,:11 1-.. •1-­
----L---.,.,.,.,_,...._.....,, _.... ntlJ UV Lllr. 
Dodgers and kayoed in just "2 ~~d 113 innings. By the time Manager Billy Martin came out to get him, the Dodgers had all the runs they would need on this cool, crisp night. 
Steve Garvey climaxed the home run onslaught with a solo shot in the ninth off Yankees relief ace Sparky Lyle. 
Martin, operating with a some­what slim supply of healthy pitch­ers, had taken· a calculated risk starting Hunter, who had been sidelined since Sept. 10 with a urological disosrder. It became obvious early that this was one gamble the Yankee's manager was going to lose. 
In the first inning, Hunter retired the first two batters he faced but then surrendered a ringing double to right center field by Smith. The Yankees right-hander got ahead of Cey with two quick striked, but the Dodgers third baseman deposited the next pitch well beyond the left field fence, just to the right of the 387-foot sign. 
An inning later, Hunter again retired the first two Dodger bat­ters, bringing up Yeager. Again, Hunter was one strike away from the out, and again, the batter won the showdown. Yeager's shot landed in virtually the same spot Cey's had in the first inning, well beyond the left field fence. 
In the third, Bill Russell laced a one-out, first-pitch single to right field, bringing up Smith. The count went to 2-2 and the Dodger's outfielder sent a tape-measure shot halfway up the bleachers beyond right center. 
As Smith circled the bases, Hunter stood on the mound, his head bowed, perhaps a remebering better World Series moments. He took a 4-1 career Series record into Wednesday night's game. But the Dodger bats were not impressed. 
Martin came out to get Hunter before more damage could be done. The power display was a 
Irish host Bethel 
The Notre Dame soccer team wiil be trying for their tenth consecu­tive win when they host Bethel College tonight at 7:30 on Cartier Field. 
familiar dilemma for Hunter this properly. season. He surrendered 29 homers He struck out eight, walked one in only 143 and 113 innings and was in trouble only once. That pitched. was the fourth inning, when the 
.,.., --------' ....t.,_ • .1..1., .C:-1.... .,,.1 .... ~ ...~-....1......... 'hu 1}11~11: ..... 'Dqnflr-1""'h ly!JIW"'-/-,1 IC' f"nh'f' tn -·n~ nfftlu 1111,.\ 
n:::a.u• »Tl ~llti:!Jc;o:~ u y '• Jill\; .~., ............v~6Ju 
_,.,...._ • ""J u .)J.IV\. JJ.a .,.,_.. ...., ................ ---­
ished the Dodger attack and by ~~d-Th~rn'i'a~ Munson gave New then the crowd of 56,691 -larges at York runners at first and third with Yankee Stadium this year -ahd none out. become restless and unruly. Reggie Jackson banged a hard 
Firecrackers and smoke bombs grounder inside frist base that were tossed from the stands onto Garvey grabbed and turned into a the field and fights broke out in the double play as Randolph scored seats. Some fans in the upper what was to be the lone Yankees stands doused fans in the lower run. stands with beer and the game was The only other time the Yankees delayed several times as young stirred was in the fifth on singles by fans raced across the outfield. Craid Nettles and Bucky Dent 
Hooton, however, was hardly sandwiched around a forceout disturbed by either the extra-curri-grounder.
, .. . . -­
;:~l1ar P,.,... .,F11+~ .............. .j.l-...... _ ... --"L--J.J. • · 
----........... v tuc:) u1 tue Ia.u:!) ur uy Ine uoagers pncnmg coacn i<.ect Yankee bats. Adams then visited Hooton at the 
The Dodger right-hander kept mound, and he must have said the the Yankees off balance throughout right thing because Hooton struck the game with his knuckle curve, a out pinch hitter George Zeber and dancing, breaking ball that is got Mickey Rivers on a fly ball to brutal on hitters when it is working end the inning. 

REAL ROOTS! 
DISCOVER 

ENTER: 1st Annual Founder's Day Essay Contest! 

Write a historical paper or discover a current Issue about SMC. Get to know your Archives! See dpt. chairman or Cathy {4809) for rules and info. 
Official announcement Thurs. Od. 13 Sponsored by Academic Affairs Council 
Prizes: 1 st-$50 2nd-$30 3rd-$20 ALLSMC STUDENTS ELIGIBLE 
Thursday, October 13, 1977 
10 the observer 


classified ads 
NOTICES 

Typing. Call Carolyn. 232-9061. 
Typing, Reasonable rata1. Call 8051. 
Accurate, Fast typing. Mrs. Donoho. 232-Q746. Hours: Sam to 6pm. 
Sewing rapalr1. Call 8051. 
Experienced minstrels. Serenading a speciality. Call Ringo and Jester. 8243. 
To the Individual who stole the day pack and calculator out of the K of C Tues. night, please consider this: the pack had much mora worth than simply a monetary value, and I can't afford to replace the calculator. Please return what Isn't your1. K. Krass. 3414. 
WANTED 

5 USC tickets. Call Paul at 1424. 
USC tickets. Call Frank 287-3844. 
Need 2 GA tix for USC. Call Jim 8708. 
Riders wanted to or from Toledo or Columbus this weekend. Call Chad 234-0980. 
2 Student USC tickets. Will pay $$. Call Suzy or Diane 5148. 
Need ride to Boston. Sunday after USC. Beth 272-2340. 
I want to bring my parents up for the Navy game. Need 2 GA's. Dave 8589. 
Need ride back to NO from Miami U., Cincinnati area after break. John 8981. 
Need two Miller tix and two USC student tix. Chris 1610. 
Parents coming from Seattle for first big visit to NO. Need 2 GA tix to Georgia Tech. Martha H. 4-4728. 
Desperately need ride to New York for October break. Will share$$$. Call Mark at 1484. 
Need ride to Peoria, Ill. Friday afternoon. Call Steve 8422. 
Need ride to Massachusetts. Will share usual. Call Tom 1485. 
Looking for 2 GA tickets to USC. Call Joe evenings. 234-0980. 
Ride needed this Friday to North Jersey­NYC area. Call Bruce 3587. 
Will trade 2 CSN tickets and$$ for 3 or 4 Steve Miller. Call 8166. 
Will trade stud. SC tix and $money for 2 Georgia Tech GA's. Call 233-7604. 
Need one GA ticket for Georgia Tech_ Call Mary 1263. 
Need ride to IU·Bioomington Friday. Call Vicki-6751. · 
Wanted: 4 GA or student USC tix. Steph 4-5424. 
Desperately needed: 2-4 GA tickets to Navy. Call 4-4956. 
Want $$? Need Southern Cal vs. N D football tix, Oct. 22. Sports Tour at 3050 
W. 7th Street, L.A. Calif. 90005. Call 213-384-1951. Could also use 4tix for any home game. 
Wanted: 4 tickets together to any home game. Call 289-9530 (Debbie) after 6 p.m. 
Need 2 USC tickets GA. Call Bill at 8270. 
Wanted: 4 USC tickets. Will pay good money. 256-1487. 
You are never going to believe this! I need Fifteen Georgia Tech GA tickets. Please call Geoff at 1083. 
Desperately need four student or GA Georgia Tech tickets. Call Mary 4-4764. 
SMC CHICK DESPERATELY NEEDS TICKETS. WILL BE VERY GRATEFUL AND PAY ANY PRICE. 4-4089. 
Need six Southern Cal tix. Mark, 287-7051. 
Babysitter wanted for two infants ­weekdays 3 to 4 p.m. 233-9535 or 
~~9-3668. 

Need ride to Boston -Providence area for October break. Will pay-drive. Call Pat, 4-4146. 
Desperately need 1 USC GA tix. Doug, 3333 or 3336. 
Ride needed for Oct. Break to Washing­ton zdc area. Call Donnas 8042. 
Need a USC ticket. Call 6814.
'----------------­
Desperately need 3 GA tickets to USC. 
Will pay anything. Judie, 4980. 
Available: One student ticket USC. Needed: OneGA or Stu. tic. Ga Tech. Call1136. 
Desperately need 2 GA tickets to USC. Will pay any amount. Mary Lou, 4980. 
Premium price paid for two USC tix. GA or student. Call Steve at 7471 or 288-0088. 
Desperately need 6 Georgia Tech G A tix. 
Call Marilyn, 234-0982. 
Call 

Wanled -Energetic students from each hall interested in earning good money. Success equals your imput. Call Mike, Du Lac Seriagraphs LTO. 8422. 
Wanted: 4 USC tickets. Will pay good bucks. Call Jim at 1419. 
Need two Southern Cal. tix. Beth, 272-2340. 
Needed: 5 GA tix for USC. Call Telana­45745. 
·----------------­
I WILL BE FOREVER GRATEFUL TO YOU ifyousellmeapairofGA tickets for the USC game. My parents want to come and cheer for Old Notre Dame. Will pay $$$$$. Call Mary, 1313. 
Wanted: One student USC ticket. Call Chuck at 1436. 
Wanted: Desperately need 6 GA tix to 
any home game. Call Chris at 1158. 
Need 4 USC GA tix. Will pay$$, call Ron 
~~:.________________ 
Wanted: 4 GA tickets for Southem. Cal. Will pay good bvucks. Call1423, ask for Mike. 
USC student or GA tix wanted. West coast clients will pay premium. 272-7360 after 6 p.m. 
Need tix for any home game. Call Sharon, 1261. 
Addressers wanted immediately! Work at home --no experience necessary -­excellent pay. Write American Service. 8350 Park Lane, Suite 269. Dallas TX 75231. 
Desperate! Ride needed to New England Indian jewelry from the Indian Tree or E. New York State for break. Will Gallery in Chicago. Call7961. share expenses, gas, driving. Calli Mike --------------­8327. ------------------For sale: 2 GA USC tickets. 
Best Wanted: 2 Female students to sublet offer .... 8846. campus view apt. Call Kathey, 6781. '-----'------------­------------------For sale: 1 Student season ticket. Call 
ARE YOU A SKIER? Free skiing plus 8364. income. Become an instructer at the -----------------­Royal Valley 'ski Resort only 12 miles AUDIO OUTLET: Stereo equipment, from Notre Dame. Attend meeting at TV's, CB's, wholesale. Call 7781. Royal Valley, Main Street, Buchanan,-----------------­Michigan, October 16 at 4 Michigan time FLANNER RECORDS-An on-campus or call Director Kitty Martin, 695-5495 or student run record shop. We stock ali Royal Valley ?9~-3847: Royal Valley has n~w rel~ases and can order any album 12 ~un_s and. IS mstallmg two new quad st1ll bemg produced. Also available, cha1r l1fts this season. blank tapes, components, accessories, ------------------pre-recorded 8 tracks and cassettes ­Need four tickets for Southern Cal game. Prices: $6.98, List LP's only $4.50. $7.98 Call Paul, 1-219-745-2892 collect or Kim List LP's only $5.29. $7.98 List ztapes, 284-5369. only $5.45. Flanner records, 322 Flanner. ------------------Phone 2741. Hours, 4-5. 6:30-8:00 Need ride to Chicago Oct. 14, Share$$. M-Th. Sun 2-3:30. Debbie, 6733. -----------------­------------------FLANNER RECORDS: ALBUM Need 2 student tix to USC for friend and SPECIALS .....these $7.98 List LP's are girlfriend. only $4.99: Chicago XI, CSN-Crosby ------------------Stills and Nash, Aja·Steely Dan, Little Desperately need 2 Steve Miller tickets. Queen-Heart, I Robot-Alan Parsons Call 283-8619. Project, Foreigner, Simple Dreams­------------------Linda Rondstadt, Hotel California­Part-t.ime janitorial. work available. Eagles, Going for the One-Yes, Steve Morn1gn hours requ1red. Call Sweeney Winwood·Steve Winwood --Flanner Re­ar Toney at Corby's, 233-0438 after 2 cords, 322 Flanner .... Phone 2741. Hours 
------------------:>at. If found, call Ellen 7962
NEED ONE SOUTHERN CAL TICKET _____________:._____ 
.... ANN MAIERS, 5439. LOST: Black leather wallet. Need ID and ------------------·icense. Reward call Robert 1465
My father hasn't been back to N D in 30 _______...:_ _______.:._ __ years. Help his dream come true with an LOST: or stolen ... brown suede coat on SC ticket. Call 8918. Bless you! Jet. 3 inS. Dining Hall. Return and no ---------:---------1uestions asked. 272-5786. Wanted: USC GA tickets for parents ------------------­please call 4-4774. LOST:National semiconducter calculater ----------:--------in O'Shag. Reward. Call 3336 or 3333. Need someone to dnve a car to New -----------------­London, Ct. anytime during October. LOST: A navy blue Noter Dame wind-Phone 291-1561. breaker. Lined. Brand new. No name. ------------------Left in North Dining Hall ....call Frank· Need ride to Omaha for Fall Break. Call 3215. Colin. 8689. -----------------­Neea ride to and-or-from NY sState Oct. LOST: SMC ID an_d other4aluable items 14 weekend. Call Tim 1045. at Kubiaks, Friday Oct 7. If found, please 
------------------call JoAnne 4-5778. Reward$$. Desperately need 2 GA Georgia Tech tix. -----------------­Help! Call Mike 1687. LOST: One pair of bi-focal glasses at pep 
~;d-~a;1;"Cj;;"cir;~ti~;-~j~j;ill~ ~~--~~"::t!_:v~~1~92: ______ Friday, Oct. 21. Share expenses. Jeff, FOUND: Pair of girl's shoes at the DT 8994. section party in Morrissey Friday night. ------------------Call3414. SAVE MY LOVE LIFE!!!! Need three GA -----------------­USC tix for girlfriend and parents! Call FOUND: ID bracelet. 256-0819. Please Rocco, 1386. call to identify. 
----------------~­
Need oneGA ticket to USC. Any price. LOST: Brown wallet in ACC raquetball Call1043. court. Reward. Call Mark, 1723. 
Wanted: One pair of footbLL SHOES* LOST: Brown leather wallet on Saturday, SIZE/? //2-11. Tom, 8270. the 8th. If found, please call John at ------------------3074. Reward. Help! Desperately need 2-5 USC tickets. -----------------­Maryanne, 3887. LOST: Puppy on Fri. Oct. 7 near Nickle's. 
p.m. 

! need ISC tix. Call Tom Basile, 233-8288. 
Desperately need 1 USC ticket. Good$$. 
Call Mike at 3119. 
Will pay big bucks for 2 good SC tixs. 
Mike, 3693. 
Need six Clemson tix. Call Leo 287-7051. 
Two student USC tickets. Will pay $. Call Suzy or Diane, 5148. -----------------­Working or college girl to share 2 bedroom apt. near IUSB. Call 288-2418. 
Need two GA tix for USC. Call Jim 8708. 
So. Cal vs. N D football tix Oct. 22 -
Sportsa Tour 3050 W. 7th Street, L.A. , 
Calif. 90005. 213-384-1951 will pay$$$. 
Also, could use 4 tix for any home football 
games. 
Help!! Desperate Damsel Direly Desires 
a ride to Boston-New England for break. 
Will share expenses. Make like a hero. 
CALL Anna 8828. 
LOST AND FOUND 

LOST: Silve~tiD bracelet at football game 
Black with brown paws and white DESPERATELY NEED RIDE NORTH OF marking on chest area. Please call CHICAGO SATURDAY OCT 15 AS 232-7457. ERALY AS POSSIBLE. CALL SUZY* -----------------­
_53_61_. _w_ILL_P_A_Y _$$_.--------Lost: Football ticket with i.d. This poor. 
Need 2 GA USC or Navy tickets. Call frosh is in fits. Please 4-4728. Randy, 8622. L;;;t':i;;-M'~~pr~tlc-;--;~;;;-;;;;-pia~ w~t;d:""Rid;t;;(;~'tr~NJ-;r-ia; Mon. eve. A timex watch without band. before or after USC. Call Mark, 8785. Sentimental value. No questions. Call ------------------8570. 
Wanted: Several young men to help with L;;;t':-Bi;;;k"le-;rt;;;~-;;;ii;tj-;;--AcC. 
a promotion. Cash pay-not door to door Personal items are important to owner. selling. Contact Miss Eddie at the Please return, call3116. Knights, 272-0312 or 272-8471. ----------------­
-----------------­
Found: On sidewalk 1976 Holy Cross
Help! Need ride to Pennsylvania 
preapratory calss ring. Call Denise.
(Villanova) for October break. Will pay. 
4-5402. 
Pleasant company! 4-4107, 4-4336. 
Brother and sister need ride to Cham­FOR SALE paign, Ill. area after USC game. Will Garage Sale:
~~~_:~~~:.~~~~~1~1__:J~-2_8~.:... 
5-piaca silver tea sat, baby things, live Wanted: 8 GA Navy tickets, together plants, bicycle and bicycle parts, bad possible. Will pay$$. Call288-0952 aft frames, clothes and many miscellaneous 6 pm. treasures! 9AM to 5PM Friday, Oct. 14 
and Sat. Oct. 15 at 528110 W. Cypress 
Need five USC GA tickets. Call Jim,, My aunt the nun will get Him on our sir' Circle [in Greenbriar Edition north off 8376. if she gets 2 G A tickets for Georgia Tee Cleveland Rd.] Every item priced to sell. -:::-----------------•Cal Rill· 1762 
4-5, 6:30-8:00, M-Th. 
PERSONALS 

Dear SMC Ladies, "How's your love life?" Find out what it can really be like Fri. nite 7 & 8:30 p.m. Library Aud. There will be guys there. 
Max, What can a 4.0 or a good time at N D do for me "If I, Should Die... " Library Aud. 7 & 8:30 p.m. Saturday nite. FREE 
Bob 

Mike Doyle & Bill McManus, Just because you're t & 6 in House acquaintances doesn't mean you're 5 & 6 in my affections. You must earn your positions. 
G 

Friday Oct. 14 is John Hagaie's 21st birthday. 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY TERRI FLYNN!!! 
Mary Jordan, If you've been doing your Astronomy homework, you know that Jupiter rises at 
12:01 am on Thurs. Oct. 13. We've been observing heavenly bodies and know that it's your 21 orbit. Have a great 21st. 
Sincerely, Stary eyed in Astronomy Calss 

1011 Flanner sends its humble regards to 327 Farley, eat your heart out!! 
LEWISIO's-open Fridays at 7 PM fine food and entertainment lor reservations-info phone 3735. 
Speed, Just a Personal to say 'hi' from One of the Guys 
Vote for experinece! Elect Margie Brassil for Freshmen Council. 
Happy Birthday Joe Stratman -meet you at the fountain. Guess who 
Jerry Hoffman, Did you see Speedie's Personal?? One of the Guys 
Kip B., Bill A., Bob G., Help me! See want ads. Martha 
Today is Joe Stratman's 21st Birthday, call him up and wish him a happy birthday 8298. 
Will trade two excellent Steve Miller tickets for two good CSN tickets or one USC ticket. Call ian 3591. 
Annmarie, You're the greatest. I hope we can do it again soon. Happy Birthday! 
Me 

To my 1013 No. Eddy Friend, Saturday night was gun. For such a crowded dance floor, I though we moved pretty well. Say hi to Kim for Pete and me. 
Mike 

1011 Flanner Your regards had better be humble. Anyone who has a red light & complains about being cold... ! 
P.S. No one lives in 327 Farley. Check the door for further info. 
Dillon, 
We miss your mothers! Grace 
Terri Flynn, Happy birthday roomie. We all love you. Ginny, Kathy, and Di 
Tom Mouch, Are you still alive??? 
G, K& D, Thank me! Barb 
----.-------------.,
Happy 3'day Katie! Two down, one to go! Love :11ardi and KB 
Question of the day -Can afrog walk? For .answer call 8298. 
To 5th floor Regina: . Thanks for helping us celebrate! You're SUPER people. Love ya all. 
Ann &Ann 

To Margo LeBrun, Thanks for the B-day card. I'm going to write you over break. Miss you. 
Ann 

P.M. Francis T.G.-nice legs! 
Tom McNertney got a new coat, Naples still has the same sneakers and Boiler­maker Billy is still growling, things are tense. 
Soccer game tonite. N D versus Bethel 
7:30 p.m. Cartier Field start your weekend with the Irish Boaters. 
To Katy and Danny: The cake was delicious. Betty Crocker would be proud of you! Thanks MUCH! 
Ann & Ann 

Ann, Congratulations to you and Dave. Bring little Josh to our graduation! 
Love & best wishes, 5th RN 

Hey Cutia! Not all snakes are as corky as you are. Goes anybody call you Mike, Clarkey? Don't forget to always look behing you! 
Love, The Garter Snakes 

--~--------------­
Kevin & JJ, South Quad sure is lonely. How come you guys don't come & see me?? 
G 

Puerto Rican Upholsterer: You have now joined the ranks of the Holy Cross dirtballs! Tell us the truth ­you really are color blind, aren't you?! 
The Camille-type People 

Call Moe Roynolds (Badin) and make her day!! 
Co~gratualtions to Robert and Debby on the1r engagement to be married on Oct. 28, 1978. Go Peterbilt!! 
Pete Andreyex receives the "Bravery Above and Beyond the Call of Duty" Award fro meritorius service to the welfare of 1014 St. Louis and its possessions. No weight lifting but beer lifting is still allowed. ' 
Wanted: An accurate, efficient secretary to work with students. Must be able to type 40 wpm. and have good telephone voice. Call Joe or Rick at 6413 from 2-4 MWF. 
To the Monday night staff: THANKS!!! Leigh & Tracy 
Jane Running, Seek and you will find, your own Personal! 
Happy birthday Kevy Wevy Woo. Love, Big "J" 
Nancy and Kathy, You gagged oh the Army trip. Be good this weekend. 
Chief 

Hey Gary, You proved me wrong about architects! You can design my building anytime. Love, Luke 
Terri Flynn, Happy birthday to one of the best! Love & kisses, Barb, Anita, Jenni & Annie 
Girls, Don't miss the Swim Club meeting! Thurs. Oct. 13 at 6:45p.m. in the Library Aud. 
The Helen of Troy Clue: The ACC has two and asix pack of Miller has twelve. 
Patrick, Italian arm-pits smell so sweet! Tex 
Saturday Night Live-Way to kick the habit-Congratulations. Keep her honest, M.J. 
K luckabear 

L~WISIO'S -Open Fridays at 7 p.m. F1ne food and enetrtainment. For reservations-info phone 3735. 
To Rob, Bob, and Marty It's a long way to hell!! K luckabear 
0bserver Typists-mandatory meeting, Thursday, Oct. 13, 8 
p.m. in the back room of the Observer. If you can't make it at 8, please stop by' later. I will be there all night. This Is really very important! 
Karan 

VOTE MART MEGARLE for frosh coun­cil, SMC. Really sis, it's ok. I'm just doing the 
backstroke. 
Can give you ride to Columbus-Ports· mouth, Ohio after USC game. Need ride 
-
back to N D after break. Dan, 3249 
Green MGB '76 needs new parent. Great condition! Call Shari, 4981. 

12 the ObServer Thursday, October 13, 1977 
Coxswain views Irish crew strategy 

The Notre Dame crew is composed of dedicated athletes including Bill MacKay, who is more than determined to excel in his position as coxswain, regardless of handicaps. 
by Laura Larimore Sports Writer 

A unique member of the Notre 
Dame crew is Bill MacKay. 

Unique. for he is ordinarily con­
fined to a wheelchair, a result of an 
accident several years ago. Getting 
around campus has been made 
easier by University officials with 
the addition of ramps at most 
buildings. However, they never 
made any provisions for rowing a 
boat in the heat of a race. 

Actually MacKay is well suited for his position in the crew, as he serves as the coxswain, the director of the crew or the "skipper." He is the only one who can see in the direction the boat is traveling. 
A coxswain sits at the rear of a shell, or boat, which seats either four or eight men. He is the navigator, strategist, and on-the­spot coach during the race. He is responsible for keeping the rowers together and keeping harmony in the crew. Confidence must be displayed by the coxswain· to inspire confidence in the crew. 
If he seems uncertain of his strategy, the oarsmen react accord­ingly. Orders have to be given loud and clear in an authoritative man­ner, yet without being bossy. Corrections have to be made during a race that lasts only a matter of minutes; there is no time for argument or resentment. 
To insure everyone hearing the coxswain's commands down at the end of the 65-foot-long boat, only he and the last man at the front end are allowed to speak. Instan­taneous decisions are required of the coxswain; the shell has to remain in its own lane, and not hit other boats; power strokes of the race have to be verbally counted, 
SMC, Irish place in tourney 
by Laurie Reising Women's Sports Editor 

The Notre Dame and St. Mary's tennis team placed well in the Indiana Small College Tennis Tour­nament held last weekend. Amond the 16 schools competing, St. Mary's finished in second p1ace with 19 points, behind the winner, Valparaiso University. Notre Dame, with 9 points came in at fourth. 
St. Mary's coach Cathy Cordes said she was "just elated" over her squad's performance, "Especially considering the level of competition we were up against." "We seeded 1'.11 six of our players, which is an honor in itself." cited Cordes. 
Freshmen, Cindy Shuster was singled out by her coach as showing exceptional determination during the week's competition. "Cindy has been consistently strong for us during the whole season and I thought she did an admirable job again," Cordes praised. Shuster took top honors in the third singles action putting down players from Franklin, But­ler, Earlham and DePauw. 
Ted Robinson 

NHL Preview 
I 
Montreal? I 

Clarence Campbell is finally gone, the WHA is still trying to survive after being back-stabbed by Harold Ballard of the Maple Leafs, and the Colorado Rockies are preparing for another season in Denver. But, one thing always remains the same in the National Hockey League--the Montreal Canadians. As the league opens its 60th season tonight, the term "competitive balance" is being threatened by the impending dynasty of the Canadians. On the eve of the league opener, there doesn't ~eem to be any change in the league structure, and only one team seems to have a legitimate shot at dethroning the Habs. The top four: Montreal: Without a doubt, the greatest collection of talent in modern NHL history. Winning 24 of 27 playoff games in the last two years is the best barometer of this team's phenomenal talent. And there's no reason
-
to think that it won't continue. Ken Dryden is only 30 and the marvelous defense trio of Larry Robinson, Guy LaPointe and Serge Savard still have years left. If ever they should break up a hockey team, this is the one. 
N. Y.lslanders: The team with the best shot at winning the Cup other than 
the Canadians. They came closer than reople realize to beating the Habs · [continued on page 9] 
Teammate Noreen Bracken, competing in the fourth singles division looked as if she too might go all the way but fell in the finals to the eventual Valpo winner. Bracken won the first set 6-4 but dropped the second in a tie-breaker 6-7. She then was defeated in her third set 1-6 due to what her coach called a "mental letdown." "After all we had gone through to get that fflr, that second set was just too much." Cordes explained. 
The coaches at the tournament voted not to seed the doubles teams and Cordes felt this proved to be a detriment to her team's chances. "By choosing not to seed, this had our number one doubles team of Purcell and Timm running up against the Valpo combination in only the second round." Cordes said. · 
"Meeting this early was bad for us and told everyone who was going to win very early in the matches." Timm and Purcell, who had placed second in last year's competition, were halted early in their attempt to repeat history, losing in two close sets 4-6,6-7. 
Finishing in second place qual­necessitiating a good judge of distance. 
"After all," Bill said, "who wants to call the last thirty and still have ten yards to go to the finish?" As the signal caller of the shell, the coxswain often gets the credit for a victory or blame for a defeat much as a quarterback answers for the football team. 
MacKay first joined crew last spring as a freshman. A fellow classmate, Jim Martin, now vice­president of the crew, invited him to join. He thought MacKay had just the right temperment for a coxswain. After he decided to join, one of the first fears the team had for their new member was what would happen should the boat somehow overturn, MacKay re­called laughingly. Actually, he is a strong swimmer. 

Bill had no previous exposure to crew unless you consider the fact that the Michigan State Crew practices across the street from his house in Lansing, Michigan. He has never seen the annual race held there but is looking forward to participating in it this year. 
At Lansing Catholic Central 
ifies St. Mary's team to go to the Regionals which are to be held during the spring in Chicago. It is the first time for such an honor and coach Cordes says she is "thrilled and looking forward to competing in them." 
Notre Dame, finishing in fourth place, had four of their players gaining a seed in the tournament with two of the girts· making their 
·way down to the semifinal action. 
Junior Diane. Shillingburg, seeded 
third in the fourth singles com­
petition, battles her way to the 
semis only to lose to the eventual 
champion from Valpo, 0-6,7-6,2-6. 
Teammate Mary Shukis came close to taking it all in first singles by defeating players from Butler and Taylor, but fell to Hanover's player 2-6,3-6. Coach Petro had nothing but praise for her seasoned players when she said "Both Diane and Mary had a great day and put forth a real effort." 
Petro was "very impressed" with the play of her third singles player, Jean Barton. Seeded fourth, Barton defeated Hanover's player 6-1,6-1 but lost in a tie­breaker to her opponent from Earlham College, 3-6,6-1,6-7. 
The Irish doubles teams did not fair quite as well Saturday morn­ing, capturing only one point. Shillingburg and Barton combined forces to put down the duo from Taylor 6-3,6-2 but were defeated by DePauw 1-6, 1-6. 
Both Notre Dame and St. Mary's will complete their seasons this weekend in the Notre Dame-St. 
Mary's  Irish  Invitational  tour­ 
nament to be held  on  both  cam­ 
puses.  Starting Friday  at  1:30,  

teams from Western Illinois, 
Miami of Ohio, Central Michigan, 
Marquette, Louisville, and Eastern 
Michigan will be battling it out along with the two host school. 
According to Cordes, "Next to the Milliken tournament, this has to be one of the biggest tournaments in the Midwest." Cordes said she hoped "to see a lot of people · coming out to catch the action." Play will continue on Saturday at 1:30. 
travel in the same bus. The only difference is that they race against the other female crews. Both have their own coaches, who are usually experienced ex-crew mem­bers who decide to coach what would usually be their last year in competition. 
The team should do well this year, according to MacKay. They have experience, a "never say die" attitude, and they are well pre­pared. Last year the four-man shell crew was ranked fourth in the nation. The first real test for the crew this fall will be at the prestigious "Head of the Charles" race in Boston Oct. 23, featuring the Ivy League schools and MIT. It is also one of the longest races, a three mile test of endurance. 
Perhaps the greatest enjoyment for MacKay in being in the crew is the thrill of the race. As those who have raced know, nothing can compare with the intense concen­tration and excitement that comes in the short time of a race. There is no time to come back and correct your errors; each moment counts. 
Little mistakes often spell dis­aster. Each person in the crew continually works to improve his technique for those few minutes of 

High, MacKay was active in golf competition. Working hard to­and also played basketball. Now in wards the common goal of victory addition to crew he is a member of unites the crew in a spirit of South Bend's wheelchair basket­comradeship. Constantly fas­ball team and the Pre-Law Society cinated by how much is involved in here at Notre Dame. "Crew," h;~ the sport, MacKay is interested in explained, "is a good way to learn each crew member and in helping to organize your time. Practice in him to improve. the fall is every morning from Most of all, he said, he is looking about 5 to 8 a.m. on St. Joe's forward to learning more and River about eight miles northeast improving himself. He plans to of campus.'' In the spring practice continue his involvement for the usually shifts to the afternoon. next three years in what he 
The girls' team practices right describes as a "never-boring sport, along with the guys, MacKay said. the perfect relief from the tensions They go ·to the same races and of school." 
%Observer 
·Sports 
Tom Desmond:-:-:-:-:-:·:-:-:-:-:·:-:-:-:-:·:-::-:-:-;.;.:.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·:·:·.··.-·.··· 
Strategy 
:;:-:;:-:::.>:<;>:::::::::::;:;:;::::::>:;>:::::;:;>:;:;:;:;>:::::-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:·>>>>>>>>:<·:-:-:-:Six-Pointers 
The New York area--a home away from home for the Notre Dame Fighting Irish. Subway alumni, a sellout crowd and the demanding New York press corps await the Irish as they make their first appearance in the area since the 1973 meeting with Army at West Point. 
Back in that championship season of 1973 the Irish trounced the Cadets 62-3 and then followed that victory with a 23-14 win over Southern Cal the f<l)lowing week in South Bend. The stage is similar this fall as the Irish will battle the Black Knights of the Hudson before a capacity crowd at the New Jersy Meadowlands Sports Complex. 
Dan Devine and his charges must gear up after a week off and the opportunity to ponder the less than artistic victory over Michigan State. Although the Irish had their best offensive showing to date against the Spartans they squandered several scoring opportunities with fumbles and penalties. The Irish will need to get back on the track and avoid the mistakes in fundamentals if they are to try to repeat the script of the 1973 season over the course of the next two weekends. 
Army has a veteran and talented team, especially on the offense, and can present a problem for the Irish. The old adage of "playing them one at a time" easily applies to this week's game and 78,000-plus at the Meadowlands and the local television audience here in South Bend will be watching to see if the Irish are indeed "looking ahead." 
When Army has the ball: The Cadets offense is a mirror-image of Purdue's-all the way down to the black and gold uniforms. Leamon Hall is the Cadets' version of Mark Herrmann and the 6-5, 220-pound senior currently ranks sixth in the nation in passing and seventh in total offense. Hall owns every record that a passer would want to own in the Army record books and is currently hitting on S81/2 of his passes totally 1, 115 yards and 12 touchdowns. 
Clennie Brundidge, a 6-4, 218 pound tight end is Hall's primary target as the junior is ranked second in the nation in receiving with six catches per contest. Brundidge, who also letters in basketball at the Point, is averaging 16 yards per reception and needs but 53 yards to establish a new career standard for the Army record book. 
On the ground the Black Knights are averaging 3.2 yards per attempt on their 39 rushes per game. Halfback Greg King leads the way for the ground troops with 333 yards on 66 carries. 
Defensively the burden will again fall to the pass rush. The front four has accounted for 17 tackles-for-loss thus far amounting to minus 169 yards. Ross Browner seems to be coming into form and now has five tackles-for-loss totaling minus-SO yards. The remaining pressure will fall to sophomore linebackers Mike Whittington and Leroy Leopold who will 
[continued on page 9] 







