

server 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's 
Monday, September 5, 1977
Vol. XII, No. 5 


SU budget in process 
Gryp pledges experimentation, new ideas 
by Jack Pizzolato special care in formulating the be less picking apart." power," Gryp observed. "By One program Gryp is not satis­Senior Staff Reporter Union's budget proposal. SU working together we can help the fied with is the SU Calendar Office. Commissioners were asked to sub­Both Gryp and McGrath feel the dorms do many things they The Calendar Office was estab­
As the Student Union (SU) mit their projected budgets by July Union's budget is shaping up well. couldn't afford before." lished to coordinate the schedulingprepares to submit its budget 4 and to explain their ideas and "We're not professionals," Gryp Gryp would also like to keep the of activities by dorms, studentproposal for this year, SU Director budget requests in detail. All said, "and we'll be looking for LaFortune Student Center open 24 clubs and the Student Union inTom Gryp has indicated that his budgets were in by the beginning suggestions and advise from mem­hours a day and spend money order to avoid overlapping andorganization is vitally interested in of August. bers of the administration such as bringing in events and activities, conflicts. "We can't get the dorms experimenting with new programs Bro. John Benesh." Benesh is the rather than on renovation. "In the or clubs to come to us," Grypand ideas. "We wanted more than a simple Director of Student Activities. past, things were done as a one complained. "People are going to.

In an interview Saturday, Gryp outline of activities and how much shot deal and no more," Gryp said. have to start realizing that thisstated that the past performance of they (the commissioners) thought Yet. Gryp and -McGrath admit "I," he continued, "want to work thing will be a big waste of. time the Student Union has in many they needed," Gryp said. "And," that their budget request will be for a total revival of the Center." otherwise," he added. 
respects· been an "insult" to the he added, "we've had the advant­higher than last year's. "I think it 
students, despite the fact of a large age of looking over these proposals really looks good," McGrath said. One of the ideas Gryp is consid­Gryp noted that he was giving 
budget. Last year's budget totaled and reflecting on them for over a "Were taking a few chances this ering is the installation of a his commissioners alot of leeway in 
$51 thousand. month now." year, experimenting with various video-tape system in LaFortune. putting together their own pro­This year, Gryp, SU Associate The Student Union must present new things," she added. Concerts, comedy specials, football grams. "I won't pretend, as others 
Director Jodie Korth and SU Con­its budget for approval before the highlights and special taped events in the past have, that I · know 
troller Colleen McGrath are takin student government's Board of Two major projects the Union as well as educational programs everything and that I'm going to Commissioners. The Board con­hops to pursue are co-sponsored would be shown on a continuous run everything," he stated. "They sists of the student body president, activities with the dorms and what basis. "It's very important that (the commissioners) report to me, I

Darby's Place 

Gryp termed "a revival" of the 
student body vice-president, stud­we get input from the students on make . suggestions and then they ent body treasurer, the chairman of LaFortune Student Center. programs like these," Gryp point­make their decision," he re­
the Hall President's Council and "Because there are no fratern­ed out. marked three members from the Student ities here," Gryp concluded, "life

reopens tonight 
Darby O'GW, proprietor of Life Council. at Notre Dame is centered in theDarby's Place, has announced 

Hunger Coalition to begin
· Budget hearings should be sche­dorms." He cited a recent outdoor 
through his press agent, Fr. 

duled by the Board in late Sep­concert that was sponsored jointly Robert Grifftn, that Darby's tember or early October. ''If we go by the Student Union and Howard 

daily campus collections
Place wiD officially open tomor­in with a more detailed budget," · Hall as an example. "We have the row at midnight. 

experience, money and man-by Florenceanne Strigle pledge forms will be distributed by McGrath pointed out, ''there will 
the end of the week. The receipts from these two 
The daily collections of the activities for this semester will World Hunger Coalition begin probably be going to special pro­tonight in front of the North and jects throughout the United States. South Dining Halls during the Suggestions as to which projects dinner hours. should be funded are now being 
Last semester over $2000 was researched. collected and most of this was sent Other events being undertaken to the Third World through organi­by the World Hunger Coalition this zations such as the Catholic Relief semester include a Walk for Global Service; CORE and UNICEF. The Development, tentatively sche­remainder of the money remained duled for Oct. 16, and the publica­in South Bend and was distributed tion of a textbook on world hunger. to the needy through the Peace and These projects are designed to Justice Center. draw the South Bend and ND-SMC 
In the hope of raising more communities together to raise a­money this semester, Karen Pacifi­wareness of and money for the co and Cathy Gallagher, two coor­Third World countries. dinators of this year's coalition, The coalition's four committees have already organized committees are also continuing their regular to renew the collecting and fasting project.s this semester. Calvin programs. AI Rabideau (288-8798) Bell's Educational Committee is 
heads the Collecting Committee planning campus-wide lectures and and is seeking volunteers. Bob workshops on hunger-related top­Froehlke (1421) is in charge of the ics as well as planning the program fasting program wherein a student for the annual World Food Day. pledges to give up his Wednesday Cathy Gorman's Community Com­night meal at the dining hd in mittee is starting preparations for return.for a 75 cent donation paid to its vegetarian meals, served three the coalition by the dining hall. times each semester. 
According to Jim Cycon, the The Research Committee, under 
third coordinator for this year's Ann Titus, is reviewing sugges­coalition, the meals given up by tions for projects to be funded by last years Wednesday night fasters the coalition's money and Bob brought in $6800. This amount will Jacobs' Public Relations Commit­
also be sent to Third World tee is looking for ways to boost countries. campus awareness of world hunger 
Proposals for this year's fasting and the coalition. program still awaiting administrat­Anyone interested in working 'on ive and dining hall approval. any facet of this organization is However, coalition members hope invited to call Cycon at 8417. 


While the <Allier gave his voice a break, square dancers did the "bunny hop" behind the bookstore Friday night. [photo by John Calcutt] 
Hesburgh debates Russians on human rights 
By Pautck Cole Special Projects Editor 

Last June, University President Theodore Hesburgh was part of a three-man team debating a Russian squad on the issue of human rights at 'Georgetown University's Gaston Hd. . 
The unrehearsed, face-to-face encounter was the first of its mid, discussing the controversy of ~­man rights and freedom. Joining Hesburgh on the American team were Robert G. Kaiser of the Washington Post, formerly the Post's Moscow bureau chief and author of "Russia: The People and the Power"; and Prof. Alan M. Dershowitz of Harvard Law School, an authority on i~ernational law. The English-spe king U.S.S.R. debaters appoint d in Moscow were Prof. Samuel Zivs, senior researcher of the Institute of State and Law; Prof. August Mishin of th~ Moscow University Law School; and Ghenrih Borovik, a special correspondent for the Novosti Press Agency (APN) in Moscow. 
The topic of the 90-minute debate was: "What is the appro­priate role of human rights in Soviet-American relations?" According to NBC News spokes­men, the format of the debate provided for two expository speak­ers and one cross-examiner. Fol­lowing an argument, the cross­examiner chdenged his oppo­
nents' arguments. Prof. James J. 
Unger, director of forensics at 
Georgetown University, devised 
the debate format. NBC· News 
correspondent Edwin Newman 
served as moderator. 
In the opening minutes of the 

debate, Hesburgh stressed the 
importance of freedom, saying he 
was "proud that my country is 
hosting this first discussion for all 
the nation to see." 
"When all is said and done," 

Hesburgh said in his proliminary 
remarks during the debate, 
"human rights are at the heart of 
humanity, and human freedom is · the very fundamental condition for human rights." Hesburgh concluded the debate 
with two suggestions to the·Soviet team. Ftrst, he recommended that the Soviets return to their country and hold a similar debate ou national television. Fmally, · he talked about the need for · an American-Soviet student exchange program. He said a program involving 10,000 students each year from both countries would help achieve a better understanding between the countries. 
"And if there is a break in peace in the future," Hesburgh said in his concluding remarks, "it'll prob­ably be the fault of our generation. So I'd like to plan for the next generation to have the experience of getting to know each other's country ·very well." 
~· 
.t
. 
•· 

the observer Monday, SeptemberS, 19n 
rNews Briefs----............. 
t==================:::::~========== World 
Graham preaches in Soviet bloc 
BUDAPEST,Hungary--More than 5000 Hungarians and other East Europeans crowded a hillside north of Budapest yesterday to hear evangelist Billy Graham preach his first sermon in a Soviet bloc · country. Speaking from a timbered podium, the sermon marked the first public appearance in 
. Hungary for the 58-year-old North Carolina evangel­ist who got his start two decades ago preaching about the evils of "godless Communism." 


Carter's economic plan 'cracking' 
WASHINGTON--President Carter's economic game plan, designed to slash unemployment and inflation and balance the federal budget by 1981, is showing signs of cracking. With unemployment rising and consumer spending slowing, the White House acknowledged on Friday that the nation's economy is in "a temporary lull." 

Weather 

Partly sunny with a 30 percent chance of widely scattered thunderstorms today and highs in the upper 70s to low 80s. Fair tonight, with lows near 60. Partly sunny tommorrow with highs in the upper 70s to low 80s. 


~On Campus Today_----... 
7 p.m. 

meeting, pre-law society, library aud. 
Alligator marriage ended 
ST. PETERSBURG, FLA. (AP)-· Albert the alligator is going to be a father, but he may never see his offspring. The eight-year marriage of Albert and Alberta, and expec­tant mother, came to an end last week when the father-to-be was trucked away from a lake at a Pinellas Park trailer park, near St. Petersburg. 
Albert, a popular figure at the park for more than 20 years, was draJuzed off to the Busch Garden" tourist attraction at Tampa by stat~ wildlife officials and sheriff's depu­ties after a complaint from a nearby condominium resident. The forced separation came amid the jeers of almost SO park residents. 

Left behind were Alberta and her eggs. 
"Good gosh, he wouldn't hurt anybody," said Fred Conrad, one of the owner's of the trailer park. "~e's a gentle guy and he's always been that way." 

Oktoberfest meeting held; committee formed 
by Patty Thom 
An organizational meeting was held at St. Mary's yesterday con­cerning Oktoberfest, the traditional fall celebration at the college. Run by the St. Mary's Social Com· mission, Oktoberfest is the first of the joint festivals held by St. Mary's and Notre Dame. 
Oktoberfest Chairman Kathy 
Friday led a discussion among 
students interested in helping to 
plan and coordinate Oktoberfest 
77. Many ideas were given for instituting new activities and revi­talizing traditional ones, such as the German dinner and the beer gardens. 
SMC reporters 

meeting Wed 
A meeting for all St. Mary's Observer reporters and anyone intere!>ted in becoming a St. Mary's reporter will be held Wed., Sept 7, at 6:30 p.m. in the St. Mary's Observer office. The office is located in the basement of Regina South, beneath the lan­guage department. 
Anyone interested in layout, day editing or copyreading is also welcome. 

Anyone interested in helping the Oktoberfest committee is invited to attend a second meeting next Sunday at 4 p.m. in Room 17 of tht: Regina North basement. 




f!~~d:or~J~.5~~~e~l 
Asst. Night Editor: Rosemary Mills layout Staff: Bob Brink Sports layout: Paul Steven­son Typists: JoAnn Meyer, Anne Giere, Leigh Tunaken Night Controller: Mardi Nevin Day Editor: Michael Lewis Copy Reader: Bob Varettoni, Barb Langhenry 
Lotographer: John Calcutt J 
T hP ( Jh-.Prvf'r 1~ publt'ht-d Monday th•uugh f rtd.Jv 
t'X( t>pt durtng th•· Pxam and vacation pPrtod~ The 09~erwr ~~published bv studPnt'> of ttw Un1ver~1tv of NotrP Dame and St Mary· s CoiiPgP St1bscnptions may be purchasPd for $20 per year ($'10 pPr sempstPr) from The Obser­vPr, Box Q, Notre Dame, lnd1ana 46556 5Pwnd class postage pittd, NotrP DamP. lnd1and 46556. 
1hf' Obst>rvpr IS a membPr of thP ''"O( ld!Pd Prt>s~ All rPproduct1on rtghh arp rf'wrvPd ' 
Comedy of Errors 'first 
Theatre revea~,ls scheduJre 
The Notre Dame -St. Mary's Dame-St. Mary's students, faculty Theatre has announced its 1977-78 and staff) and may be pun:hased by season schedule. The season will calling 284-4176. All pla.ys will be begin with Shakespeare's The presented at 8 p.m. in ()'Laughlin Comedy of Erron, which will be Auditorium on the St. Mary's presented ,Oct. 7, 8, 13, 14, and 15, campus. 
The Comedy of Errors' is Shake­followed by Bertolt Brecht's The speare's shortest play a:od depicts
Caucasian Chalk Circle on Dec. 2, the confusion resulting from the 3, 8, 9, and 10 and Eugene reunion of two sets of twins who O'Neill's A Touch of the Poet on had been separated sin.<:e birth. 
Feb. 24, 25, March 2, 3, and 4. The Diana Hawfield, costumc:r for the season closes with the Gilbert and Notre Dame-St. Mary's Theatre, 
Sullivan operetta, The Mikado, will be directing this pmduction.which will be presented on April Last season she directed the ND­28, 29, May 4, 5, and 6. SMC Theatre's production of Ed­
Season subscriptions are $9.00 ward Albee's A DeUC8h, Balance. for all four plays ($7 .00 for Notre The Caucasian Chall' Circle is 

Howard shows filnr1s examining great n1en 
By Kevin Walsh Staff Reporter 

"A Third Testament," a series of films which examine the lives of great men who have influenced W t:stem thought, will be presented this fall in Howard Hall. 
Co-sponsored by Howard's Reli­gious and Academic/Cultural Com­missions, the film series will fea· ture one hour segments on Blaise: Pascal, William Blake, Sorellt Kierkegaard, Leo Tolstoy, ancl Dietrich Bonhoeffer. According to the series outline, "the program!> are historical, philosophical, and biographical in nature, and will compare contemporary life against the ideas of these men." 
On Sept. 20 the life and views of Pascal will be presented. A scien­tist and inventor, Pascal considered such occupations to be unworthy distractions of man's efforts whe111 compared with the search for God and one's own moral purpose. 
Tuesday, Oct. 4, will feature a film on the "gloomy" life of Kierkegaard. A movie on the English poet Blake will be shown on Nov. 1. Just like the patients in Ken Kesey's "One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest," Blake's bizzare actions led many people to believe tltat he was insane, when in fact, 
CROSSWORD SOLUTION 
maybe it was the c:ippo$ite. , 
Tolstoy, a man whoSI! workS are respected in Russia as well as the United States, will be th,e subject of the Nov. 8 film. On Nov. 17, the tribulations of a Nazi war prisoner will be depicted with the presenta­tion of the film about the German theologian Bonhoeffer. 
All movies will begin at 6:30 
p.m. and last one hour. Admission is free. 
Brecht's last full-length play. It is a melodramatic show, complete with infant waif, estranged lovers, an escape across a rickety bridge, and a happy ending. Miles Coiner, who directed the produ<:tion of They last year is directing this Brechtian pageant. 
A Touch of the Poet is one of O'Neill's most powerful an,d pene­trating plays. Julie Jenson who joins the faculty this year from 
Wayne State University where she 
is a doctoral candidate in theatre 
will be taking on A Touclll of the 
Poet as her first directing assign­
ment for the ND-SMC Theatre. 
Nanki-Poo, KoKo, Pooh-Bah, Pish Tush, and Yum Yum are some of the characters in one of the most popular Gilbert and Sullivan oper­ettas, The Mikado. Ever since its opening in 1885, The Mllkado has delighted audiences with its simple yet lavish tale of a clumsy, coward­ly executioner; a pompous admini­strator, who holds every govern­mental position in the Japanese village; twolover!!:and The Mikado, Emporer of Japan. Stage director for this operetta will be a Notre Dame-St. Mary's Theatre veteran director, Frederic Syburg. Last season, Syburg direct G. H. Shaw's comedy, Heartbreak Hou!le. Musi­cal director will be Adrian Brytann who will also conduct the Notre Dame orchestra. 
...............................,................_ 




AU:DITION! 
for the part of 'MATT' in S 

~s~JC~ 
. <~~~1 

1\1~\ 
call 233-8363 for information 
TUES[lAY SEPT. 6TH 
7pm L.ITTLE THEATRE 
e•reryone welcome!
.__________ 
Get inYolved in NAZZ concerts and food sales. 



JOIN IN MEETIN 'fONIGHT 
7:00PM 



L11FORTUNE 



--------~-------------------------------------------------­

.••·-·. t 
Monday, Septem~r s,, 1977 the observer . 3 
----~------~~~~~~~----~ 

Congress' delay may cause higher health bills 
WASHINGTON (AP)--Ameri­President Carter this year. formula would hold annual increas­services It says hospitais are this month. The panel already h8s cans are likely to pay an extra 5750 The administration projected SJ es to about 9 percent, instead of the inefficient and provide many un­agreed to an ~endment by its million for hospital care during the billion in savings to Americans 15 percent of recent years. necessary services. chairman, Rep. Dan Rostenkowski last three months of this year during the fiscal year 1978. The It also would put a national limit Califano got a chilly reaction to a (D-ID.) to eliminate about 3300 because of Congress' delay in $750 million figure for . October, on capital expenditures for hospi­speech to the AMA convention this small hospitals from coverage. considering the Carter administra­November and December is one­tals of about half the current SS summer calling the nation's health A House Commerce subcommi,t­tion plan to clamp a lid on hospital fourth that total. billion per year. care system "a vast, sprawling, tee chaired by Rep. Paul C. Rogers bill increases. A financial expert at the Depart­The Congressional Budget Office complex, ht~hly expensive and (D-Fla.) is scheduled to begin 
The extra payments will be still ment of Health, Education and has estimated the nation would virtu a IIy non-competitive markup sessions Sept. 12. The higher if, as expected, Congress Welfare (HEW) who helped draw save more than S40 billion in the industry.'' fourth subcommittee, a Senate adjourns this year without complet­up the proposal verified the accura­next five years under the plan. Health care costs are rising 2 1/2 Finance panel, has not finished ing action on the proposal. cy of the estimate of $750 million in Groups of doctors and hospitals times as fast as the cost of living, hearings and its chairman, Sen. 
When the administration unveil­higher hospital bills for the three-. have attacked the proposal. The and hospital costs are the most Herman Talmadge (D-Ga.), has not ed its proposal April 25, it wanted month period. American Medical Association, in inflationary sector in the health yet . scheduled the additional the plan to take effect Oct. 1. The That includes an estimated S244 House testimony, said the plan industry. hearings. federal budget for fiscal1978 which million in potential savings for would result in many Americans Faced with this situation, con­starts then, assumes a slower rise Medicare and S34 million for receiving "second-rate care." The administration attributes the gressional and administration offi­in expenses for the government's Medicaid that will be lost. HEW The AMA predicted that the rapid increase in hospital bills in cials agreed the soonest the admin­Medicare and Medicais programs, Secretary Joseph A. Califano, Jr., public will demand the best possi­part to the fact that 90 percent of istration proposal is likely to take and additional savings were predic­complained last month that Con­ble health care regardless of cost. hospital bills are paid by third effect is with the new year, if then. ted for privately financed hospital gress was acting too slowly. He Hospital groups say Carter's ceil­parties, including private insurance A spokesman for the Rogers costs. said the average cost per hospital ing would interfere with hospitals companies, Medicare and Medi­subcommittee said of the chances 
Congressional and administra­stay has gone up $100 since April. keeping up with the latest technolo­caid. This means that the patient for passage this year, "A lot tion sources now agree that meet­The Carter proposal is to limit gy. pays only indirectly through higher depends on how late in the year ing that deadline is virtually impos­the cost increases for hospitals to The administration insists that insurance premiums and higher tax Congress stays in this year." sible. Thev say the o_uestion now is the general inflation rate plus an hospitals can hold down cost in­payments. An HEW official, assessing the whether a bill will be se1~t to allowance for improved care. This creases without sacrificing any The administration contends that status of the proposal in Congress, 
neither patients nor hospitals are said, "It's sort of by the boards for 
properly concerned about the rap­Oct. 1. Jan. 1 looks a lot more 
idly mounting costs. realistic and there will be a loss in 
higher hospital bills because ofOn Capitol Hill, the complex that. We've got a long way to go in administration proposal went to Congress, but we're still confident 

SMC juniors discuss activities 
four different health subcommit­that we'll have a bill eventually. •' tees, only one of which has 

obtain a ticket plus bus transporta­requested soon. reported out a bill. The panel that 
tion. Three hundred tickets were Juniors were also asked to has completed action is a Senate 
A White baseball game, a purchased, so juniors will have top volunteer to work on the committe Human Resources subcommittee Frisco trip cash day at the America amuse-priority to the tickets, but students for St. Mary's Senior Bar. "It's chaired by Sen.Edward M. ment park near Chicago, and a trip from other classes may be able to possible the senior bar won't Kennedy (D-Mass.) perhaps the due this weekto the dunes Sunday were some of purchase tickets as well. actually go through till next year," strongest supporter of the planthe events described at St. Mary's A happy hour at Kubiak's, a explained Noonan, "so we'd like to must still be acted on by three The remainder of the cost for the junior class meeting last night. tailgater, and a class formal Dec 3 have some students next year who other subcommittees and then their senior class trip to San Francisco 
According to Junior Class Presi­are also on the agenda. Possible are familiar with what's going full committees before reaching the will be collected in the LaFortune dent Donna Noonan, everyone was activities include a square dance, a on." House and Senate floors. lobby today through Friday from extremely pleased with the success masquerade ball and a ski trip. In A newsletter will be sent to all A House Ways and Means noon to 4 p.m. At St. Mary's, 
of the ND-SMC junior class picnic response to a poll taken last spring, St. Mary's students in the near subcommittee is a third of the way money will be collected today 
held last Saturday night. "I think Class of '79 t-shirts are in the future with more specifics regard­through marking up the bill and through Thursday in the LeMans 
juniors are really pulling together offing, and ideas for these will be ing these events. has scheduled more work on it later lobby. 
and willing to cooperate this year,'' 

Noonan said. As a result, many events this year will be co-spons­Frost-Nixon interview 
ored by the junior classes from both 
schools. 
A bus will be available ti:>r the 



Nixon didn't believe tapes criminal 
trip to Warren Dunes on Sunday, 
and maps will also be distributed Watergate because John wasn't downfall. The question led off the One of the early post-Watergate around campus later this week. 

minding the store,'' Nixon said. fifth show. 
conversations in the White House ­Other bus trips planned include a 

"He was practically out of his mind 
between Nixon and staff ·chiefday excursion to Great America, about Martha in the spring of 1972. "First, I didn't believe that there H.R.Haldeman was found to haveOct. 8, and a possible ove:rnight He was letting Jeb Magruder and was a reason to destroy them," been erased and the culprit hastrip to Dayton for the basketball all these boys, these kids, these Nixon said. 'I didn't believe that remained a mystery.

game next March. 

nuts, run this thin~." there was anything on them that "I didn't do it because I neverOn Sunday Sept. 18, the White would be detrimental to me . . . I had access . . • to the machine onSox will play a doubleheader didn't destroy them because I felt which the experts said the accident against the California An!j:els in . . . it would have been an open or erasure occurred,'' Nixon said. 
Chicago, and for $11 students may admission 'well, I'm trying to cover "I never saw the tape or touchedsomething up.'" 

the machines, or put the earphones 1977 Dome Nixon said also that be didn't on or anything else," Nixon said. think any authority could get the 
He said he believed the story told 

still availablj9 tapes out of the White House, a 
by his long time secretary, Rosetheory shot down by the courts. 
Mary Woods, who said she mightThose students who do not have have accidentally erased 4 and one their '77 Dome may pick up a copy half to 5 minutes while transcribing today, tomorrow or Wednesday at the tape.

the Dome office in LaFortune between 3 p.m. and 5 p.m. "Now as to who caused the rest of it, I simply can't say," Nixon said.
Rugby Club 
to begin practice 
The Notre Dame Rugby Club will begin fall practice tomorrow Sept. 6 at 4:15p.m. behind Stepan Center. New members are encour~1ged to attend, no experience is required. For more information contact John O'Connell at 3634. 
Boat collision 


leaves 6 dead 
HOUSTON AP -Six people were killed and as many s 20 may be 
missing Sunday night after a grisly three boat collision on the San Jacinto River near Houston, offici­
als said. 
Four of the victims were decapi­tated in the wreck, deputies said. 
One boat, carrying 15 people sank immediately. Another boat towed the third craft to port after the collision. 
Harris County deputies were dragging the river for more bodies. Names of the victims were being withheld pending notification of 
next of kin. 
·. 
i I P Pi 4 . F, f 

the observer Monday, September 5, 19n 
IT CSOllJNtY IT CB<!AJNLY IS /tKJNOAY /5. «JHAT'R£

Assassins murder 5, wound 11 ~ /rfJRNJNG, YOJJ WING 
• ISN'T IT? WOAY? 
I

in Frisco Chinatown restaurant .. I 
SAN' FRANCISCO (AP)--Three masked gunmen invaded a China­town restaurant crowded with about 100 diners early yesterday, assasinated a reputed gang mem­ber and then opened fire at random on the screaming patrons, killing at least four more and wounding 11, police said. 
The gunmen--two with automatic rifles and the third carrying a shotgun--escaped into the night at about 2:40 a.m., PDT, after firing at least 20 shots in less than a minute inside the Golden Dragon restaurant on narrow Washington Street in the heart of Chinatown. 
Police Chief Charles R. Gain said the shootings stemmed from "a war going on between Chinese gangs'' and said the investigation was being hampered by the reluc­tance of witnesses to talk. 
Lt. Victor Macio said officers arriving at the scene found people screaming, bodies on the floor and the dining room--on two levels separated by a short flight of stairs--awash with blood. 
"Honest to God, it was terrible," said Francine Novak, of San Fran­cisco, who was in the restaurant but escaped injury. "Just look at 
Man wounded 



at Forest Hills 
NEW YORK AP -Play was 
suspended briefly during the U.S. 
Open Tennis Championships Sun­
day night when a spectator in the 
stands was shot in the leg during a 
match between Eddie Dibbs and 
John McEnroe. 
Police said James Riley, 33, of 
New York., was carried on a 
stretcher from the stadium at the 
West Side Tennis Oub in Forest 
Hills. 
He was taken to a hospital, 
where he was listed in fair condi­
tion. Hospital officials said he was 
shot once in the left leg. They 
said it appeared to be a flesh 
wound, but were taking exploratory 
X-rays. 
A policeman, who asked not to be identified, said Riley looked down, noticed that his leg was bleeding, walked from his seat in the stands and said: 'I think I've been shot." 
He was rushed to the stadium's 
infirmary, where he was treated 
before being taken to the hospital 
in an ambulance. 
Police said it was not immediate­
ly clear what precipitated the 
in~ident. They said they were 
searching for the assailant. 
The match was continued about 
five minutes after was suspended. 
There were no immediate arrests. 
A stadium groundsman said a 
man was seen running from the 
stadium shortly after the incident. 
Tutoring group needs volunteers 
1he Neighborhood Studv Helo Program, a campus volunteer · service through which students can tutor grade school children from the South Bend area, will be recruiting volunteers for this semester today at the North Dining Hall from S p.m. to 6:30 p.m., tomorrow at the South Dining Hall from S p.m. to 6:30 p.m., and Wednesday at the St. Mary's Dining Hall from 4:30 p.m. to 6 p.m. 
The tutoring groups visit schools during the day and in the evening .a11 a weekly basis. Special times can be arranged for volunteers who do not fit into the scheduled times. Schedules will be arranged during the sign-ups. Transportation to and from the schools is provided. 
~nose who are unable to volun­tt."\''. Utis week may call Maggie Britton, 4260 or Ombudsman, 6283. ~tudents may also volunteer on tktivities Night, Sept. 12, in Stepan Center. 

the blood. I'm very sick." 
Mrs. Novak said she crawled under a table as the people behind her were sprayed with bullets. Many other diners also dove under tables as bullets went ripping into furniture, dishes and walls. 
"I saw the fire coming out of the end of the gun and I knew this was not a joke," she said. 
None of the victims was immedi· ately identified. However, Macio said four of the dead were men and one was a woman. He also said one of those injured was a restaurant employee. 
"We have natives, tourists, whites and Orientals," said Denise Kelly, police station officer, regarding the victims. 
Police said witnesses reported that as soon as the gunmen entered one of them approached a male patron sitting at a table and fired a rifle shot into his head. After the man fell to the floor, the gunman fired two more shots at him, police said, then all three gunmen began firing at random. 
Although the men wore masks, police believe the gunmen were Oriental youths because of their builds and a description by one witness. 
Officer Terrence Collins, at tl1e scene of the shootings, said the man who was the apparent target of the attack "was known to be with one of the Chinese gangs in Sa•n Francisco." 
Gain said the investigation was hampered by unco-operative wit­nesses. 
•'A tragedy we continue to have in the Chinese community is thllt the Chinese people will not talk,'' Gain said. He blamed the silenc·e on "elther culture or fear." 
Police report 39 gang-related slayings in Chinatown since 1969. Most gang members are young men between the ages of 13 and 20. 
Macio said most of the gang violence stems from disputes invol­ving narcotics, .gambling or terri1· torial boundaries. 
~ ') ~' ~ 


"'R ~~ ~r
111•-......... 
'/l~. 

••• this card will let you call long distance long distance calls from the privacy of your from your room faster and at less cost than room, and at direct-dial rates. That's a lot any other way. easier and more economical than any other 
way. Besides, there•'s no waiting in line, and If you live in a residence hall, making a long you keep the chan~Je. To get your STUDENT distance call can be a hassle. 

BILLING CARD just call237-8182. You either have to call collect (and that costs extra), or wait in line at a pay phone with a couple of pounds of change in your pocket. 
Well, there's a way around all that. Get your free STUDENT BILLING CARD from Indiana 
@Indiana Bell 

Bell. A Student Billing Card lets you make 


Monday, September S, 1977 
the observer 



Crocodile kills boy at Miami reptile showi 
MIAMI AP -A 2,000 pound crocodile usually ea. ~hic)(ens and crocodile that crushed a 6 year old other small creatures, Mrs. Haast boy in its jaws and held him said. 
underwater until he drowned was ''The crocodile has been here 20 destroyed Sunday by its owner at years, and people have been com­the Miami Serpentarium. ing here for 30 years without 
"My husband disposed of him, accidents,'' Mrs. Haast said. "We he shot him,'' said a tearful Oarita just never dreamed this could Haast. "He didn't sleep all night; happen with all the precautions we he couldn't bear the thought of had taken.' people coming to see the crocodile However, Burroughs and Cauli­
after he'd done this." neau said there weren't enough Bill Haast, operator of the reptile . safety measut'es. "It's absolutely 
show for 30 years, closed its doors criminal,' Burroughs said. "No after the accident Saturday. Mrs. protective devices, no supervisory Haast said they'd stay closed until people there to provide any help, further notice. no warnings, no signs visible 
The boy, Mark Wasson of West anywhere.'' Palm Beach, had fallen from a five foot masonry wall around the mud 
Food Services

pit where the crocodile lived. "When the boy hit the pit, the croc moved in the blink of an eye, like to begin using lightning," said Wildlife Officer Robert Douglas, who arrived later. 
There was a crunch, and after a computer check moment the boy screamed. His by father, David Wasson, ran for help. Renee I.eacbtea 
A West Palm Beach banker, Nicholas Caulineau, saw no attend­The black bands on student ID ants nearby, so he ran to help. "I cards will be used in a computerWorkmen are nearing completion on the renovations to Nieuwland Science Hall and the 
climbed over the wall and jumped checking system by the Food scaffolding will soon be removed. [photo by John Calcutt] 
on the crocodile's back, holding Services in the near future. onto the wall," Caulineau said. According to Assistant Registrar "I jumped about four times." David Kil, the computer equipment 
But the 14 foot reptile only will probably be ready by the start swished its tail. Wasson returned of the spring semester. The by then, and he jumped in and tried computer will check for students' to pull his son from the croc's identification and meal plan. 


Gun battle erupts at dance 
mouth. "The present system is time­months pregnant, died about 8:30 being sought. Haast came running, seized a consuming and not wholly effi­
pole and fought the crocodile. He cient," said Ed Price, director ofKANSAS CITY* MO. AP-A preg­am at Truman Medical Center. King said details of the-shooting and Charles Burroughs of Big Pine food services. Price said there arenant woman was shot to death and Efforts to save her baby failed. were not yet clear. But police said 
five other persons were wounded Key grabbed its snout, hanging on a significant number of students
The other victims-three women the incident apparently began after as it crawled over the muddy
early Sunday when a gun battle, and two men-were treated at an argument over a 52.75 photo­who try to sneak in the cafeteria. sparked by a photograph, erupted various area hospitals. None was mound to its pool. He added that the new system will
graph. at at dance at Munincipal Airport. seriously wounded. A photographer was offering to The crocodile sank into the be virtually foolproof as well as 
water, the boy still clamped in its more efficient.
The dead woman was identified Two men were in custody Sunday take instant pictures of couples as Lottie M. Smith of Kansas City, night at the Oay County Jail dancing. Several persons reported­teeth. Price said the computer system one of about 1000 people attending awaiting charges in connection ly complained about the poor Only when someone poked the is being initiated on an experiment­
crocodile in the eye did it tum the al basis. The possibility of the
the disco dance at the airport's with the shooting, according to Sgt. quality of the pictu..ooes, and sudden­Trade Mart Ballroom. Earl King of the Kansas City Police ly and argument between the boy loose. Mark's limp body check system being used in other 
The woman, who was eight Department. Athird man was floated to the surface, but doctors facilities, such as the library, is
photographer and another man 
were unable to revive him. under investigation. 
broke out. 
The boy and his father had been Students are asked not to pick at
Witnesses said the two men 
tossing seagrapes to the crocodile the bands because they are coded
pulled handguns, backed to oppo­
NBC ends famous to·urs while waiting for Haast to start his with information that could be
site sides of the ballroom and 
reptile show. witnesses said. The destroyed.
began firing. Most of the dancers 
Student Union Plant Sale
by BID Delaney man's body recovered during the summer six or seven years ago was The beach area on the north never identified, Pears said. The 
Sponsered by the S.U. Services Commission 
shore of Saint Joseph's Lake is only director of security also recalled the open for swimming to students and drowning of a Chicago youth on faculty members and their immedi­commencement day five years ago. ate familes who register at the The youth, who was visiting Notre 
security office and obtain identifi­Dame on a retreat, was swimming Tues. Sept. 6 1-5 pmcation tags, according to Director of without the knowledge of security. Security Arthur Pears. Tags for Despite these incidences, Pears students are free whereas tags for said that swimming in the lake is other eligible persons cost one not unsafe if the rules are ob­Wed. Sept. 7 1-5 dollar. served. A lifeguard is on duty from 
According to Pears, the tags, to noon until 6 p.m. These are the be worn while in the water, are only hours when swimming is necessary to prevent outsiders allowed. Swimmers must also stay 
Lafortune Ballroom
from using the facilities at the ~thin the area cordoned off with expense of st;udents. Pears em­ropes.phasized that the lake is meant The lifeguards are instructed to 
primarily for student use. Private tum away anyone who does not 
All Plants at Who1~sale Cost 
groups and less immediate mem have an identification tag. Persons began running for the exits, but at
of NY televison studios 
least three other persons pulled weapons and also began firing,
NEW YORK AP-Actress Kate way, Captain Kangaroo. Eva Marie Jackson memorized the book to get Saint and Efram Zimbalist Jr. police said. her spiel down letter-perfect. Gene Dozens of rounds were fired, but Rayburn, the game-show host, was Todays tO!lrs in the midtown­none of those involved in the desperate for the $20 a week. And skyscraper mark the end of the argument was hit, police said. actor Richard Benjamin juggled the 44-year tradition that has become a Several guns were recovered. It numbers to make his audience victim of TV's migration to Holly­was not known whether the murder "ooh and aah." wood. weapon was among them. 
All got their starts in :show "Over the years we began to feel business as NBC pages, cheerily we didn't have the attraction we LSA T registration escorting visitors through the maze used to," said John Scuoppo, a vice of radio and television studios, president in the network's promo­
this week 

soap opera sets, news centers, and tion department. "As the shows technical operations at the net­left for California, fewer stars Those planning to take the Law works headquarters in Rockefeller visited the studios and interest School Admission Test (L.S.A.T.) Center. Their fellow alumni in­waned.'' this Oct. 8 must register bySept. 7. clude Gregory Peck, Dave Garro-[continued on page 6] Registration forms are in Dean 
Waddick's office, Room 101 O'Shaughnessy. Registration fee is $11.


Lake bathers must register 
Single Grad Students and Faculty ARE INVITED TO JOIN THE 
CATHOLIC ALUMNI CLUB 
WRITE: CATHOLIC ALUMNI CLUB OF SOUTH BEND 
P·O· Box 844 
South Bend ,Indiana 46624 

OR ATTEND: organizational meeting Frida sept 9 8 Pn:' N.D. Library lounge 
hers of the families of faculty and swimming after hours may be staff are generally refused admit­referred to the dean of students for tance. "All we ask," says Pears, discipline, Pears said. 
Jades Palms Wandering Jews
"is that students cooperate." Pears added that the lake water The t~s also help identify the is tested several times a week and victim in' case of drowning. A is safe for swimming. 

Monct.y, September 5, 1977
the observer 





Hurricane Babe threatens Louisia,na coast 
-------------------------~ 
Interested in writing for the OBS:ERVER? SMC Reporter's Meeting SMC Observer office 
in the basement of Regina South 

WEDNESDA1{, SEPT. 7TH 
6:30~PM 
..

£---------------------------·---------------··------------·----------------------~ 

NEW ORLEANS [AP] • Tropical storm Babe became Hurricane Babe and began moving toward the Louisiana coast yesterday, sending residents back to emergency shelt­ers and prompting an alert from Alabama to Texas. 
The National Hurrican Center in Miami said Babe became a hurri­cane -which means it had sus­stained winds of more than 74 miles per hour -at 9 p.m EDT. 
Babe had hovered almost with-"' out moving over the Gulf of Mexico yesterday morning. but slowly headed north late in the day. 
"It's just sort of meandering in a general northward direction," Pelissier said. "It looks like it probably will continue this • maybe go a little east or west. But the 

Carter refused Lane ''s offers 


to resign: 
NEW YORK AP • Bert Lance has offered twice to resign as President Carter's budget director, but each time has been talked out of it by the President, Time magazine says. 
The magazine said Sunday that its information came from a ''well­placed Atlanta businessman who is close to both Lance and the White House." 
It also said that another Georgian quotes White House aide Stuart Eizenstadt as telling him, "It's quite obvious Bert won't survive all this." 
White House Press Secretary Jody Powell and Eizenstadt on Sunday denied the Time story. "I checked with the President and the statement about Bert offering to resign is incorrect," Powell said. 

Stars recall early jobs as NBC tour guides 
[continued from page 5] 
Besides news, sports, and soap operas, the only NBC shows still 
produced  in  New  York  are  two  
game  shows  and  NBC  Saturday  
Night."  

Scuoppo said attendance peaked during the Workd's Fair years of 1964-65 at over a quarter-million annually, dropping to about 200,000 last year. 
He said the tours ran in the red the last several years and the comp!lny was unwilling to invest the money to upgrade the attrac­tion. 
In a farewell tribute to the tours, WNBC-TV solicited reminiscences from several former pages who made it up the ladder. 
"You started as a page a $15 a week," said Rayburn, "then out of sheer desperation you did every­
thing you could to get into guide 



Time magazine 
"It is flatly and totally untrue." 
Eizenstadt called the quote attri­buted to him "a blasphemy and ... an incredible falsehood. I never privately or publicly said anything to anybody that was in any way negative about Bert. Bert is not only a close colleague but a personal friend. It's the worst of bad journalism." 
Lance was reported to be prepar­ing over the weekend for Senate hearings on his financial activities by sending a top aide to Georgia to comb Lance's records. 
The Mission was given to A.D. Frazier, whom Lance is paying personally, according to Robert W. Dietsch, Lance's spokesman in Washington. 
Frazier, who has headed the 

school because guides got S20 a week." 
"I was sure I was the best tour guide that had ever given a tour at NBC," said Jackson. "Besides memorizing the book, which you had to have down letter-perfect, I went in and talked to engineers and worked my way into studios so I could take my groups into places others couldn't go." 
Benjamin said that when he gave tours, "Numbers seemed to im­press people. We told them that u televsion signal took three seconds to travel across the country and we'd get big oohs and aahs with that. Sometimes we made it longer, sometimes shorter. What­ever got the biggest oohs and aahs from the crowd, that's the numbet· we'd use," he said. 
_ 

predominant direction will be northward toward the coast." 
The weather service had issued a hurricane watch extending from Mobile, Ala., to Galveston, Texas. A hurricane watch means people in the area should be prepared to leave their homes, the weather service says. 
By Sunday night, the storms ill-defined center was about 100 miles from the Louisiana coast, 160 miles south-southwest of New Orleans. 
As the storm grew more power­ful. its far-flung gales which had lashed the. coast Saturday, drew back around the center. As a result, weather cleared along the coast and residents on the southern tip of Louisiana left emergency 
shelters to go home. But they were headed back to th•e shelters late yesterday afternoon. 
For the residents of low-lying Grand Isle, it was the third evacuation in five days. They evacuated when Hurricane Anita steamed through the Gulf o:tl ih way to Mexico Wednesday and again Saturday when Babe's J~ale:t and squalls buffeted the Loui!iiann coast. 
Residents in low-lying areas of Plaquemines, Cameron, and T•erre·· bonne parishes also headed for higher ground. 
Saturday, the storm's ctmter came within 35 miles of Plaque­mines Parish, sending winds of 4S 
m.p.h. and tides up to four feet above normal into an area th.at i~: 
drive to reorganize the president's executive office, "is looking at everything he has to in order to get ready for the hearings," :said Dietsch. 
The hearings begin Wednesday before the Governmental Affairs Committee, chaired by Sen. Abra­ham Ribicoff, D-Conn. The pnnel held Lance's confirmation healing last winter. 
A report also was expected from the comptroller of the currency that would deal with operations of airplanes owned or leased by the National Bank of Georgia during the time Lance ran the bank. 
Th comptroller found that seve­ral hundred unexplained trips were made by these aircraft in 1975 and 1976 with politicians aboard, ac­cording to the New York 







FREE UNIVERSITY 
TUESilAY & lVEDNESDAY 
:SEPT. 6 and 7 4::00pm -~):OOpm 

LaFOR'TUNE ~B.ALLROOM 
_:~~========= 
-
barely above sea l•evel. 
More than 5,000 residents spent Saturday night in ~~mergency shel­ters. 
Plaquemines Padtsh is the south­ern tip of Louisiana where the Mississippi River ·~mpties into· the Gulf. 
Early Saturday, Shell, Chevron, and Exxon oil companies evacuated 

Band c~hooses members for 132nd continuous year 
Approximately 180 students were selected as members of the 1977-78 Notre Dame Marching Band by directors Robert O'Brien, James Phillips, aad Fr. George Wiskirchen, following marching auditions last Thursday evening. The band remains tfte same size as last year, and is comprised of students from the University and St. Mary's College. 

workers from rigs in the storm's path. Company spokesman said the workers will not return as long as a potentially daugc~rous storm is in the Gulf. 
A Shell spokesman said the rigs his company shut down produce 100,000 barrels of oil and a billion cubic feet of natural gas a day. 
The Notre Dame Band, Amer­ica's official Bicentennial Univer­sity Band, begins its 1:32nd year of continuous service to the Univer­sity and its 19th football season. The band is now preparing for their first performance this season at Pitt Stadium when the Fighting Irish play the Pitt Panthel's during a nationally televised game. 


DEBi\.TE and SPEECH 
INTERCOL.ILEGIATE DEBATE AND SPEECH ACTIVITIES (Debate, Extemp., Oratory, lnterpretatic·n) 
OPEN TO AU NOTRE DAME UNDERGRADUATES 
Participate ii11 one of the most competitive and exciting adhfities on campus. Come to our first general mee1tnng: 

ThursdlEty, Sept. 8 7:30pm 




Monday, September 5,.1977 the observer 
To 'instill awareness' 




Education for Justice committee formed 
by Peggy McGuire 
After over a year of planning, the University Committee on Educa­tion for Justice has been formed to try to instill in students and faculty an awareness of current social justice issues. Father David Bur­rell is the chairman of the commit­tee, which is composed of thirty students and faculty representing all colleges. 
Sister Vivian Whitehead, a com­mittee member, stated the group's 
Club reps to meet Wed 
According to Nan Bufalino, co­chairman of Freshman Orientation, there will be a meeting W ednes­day, Sept. 7 for representatives from all clubs and organizations interested in participating in the annualActivities Night, to be held Sept. 12 in Stepan Center. The meeting will be in the ballroom of LaFortune Student Center at 7 p.m. 
She stressed that all organizations must be registered with Student Activities to be eligible t9 partici­pate. Approximately ninety to one hundred clubs are expected to be represented. 
Pre-law Society to meet tonight 
The Pre Law Society is sponsoring an organizational meeting tonight at 7 '11. in the Memorial Library auu1torium. Featured speakers are Dean Waddick, Dean Link, and Professor Houck. All are welcome to attend. 

NO prof elected 
Professor A. L. Gabriel of the University of Notre Dame was elected into the general assembly of the Executive Body of the International Committee of Histori­cal Sciences, at the 50th anniver­sary meeting of the committee held recently in the Canary Islands. 
The Internal Commission on History of Universities, presided over by Gabriel with headquarters at Notre Dame, was promoted to an affiliated organization. 
Gabriel, a specialist in medieval education, is director of the Folsom Ambrosiana Collection at Notre Dame. 



North Dining Hall renovated 
By Jerry Perez 
Students returning to the North Dining Hall for the first time this semester encountered a renovation of the facility's usual six-line method of operation. According to Edmund Price, director of food services, the incorporation of the four middle lines into two large dining areas initiated an effort to eliminate the inefficiencies of the present bus-cart system. 
Price outlined a plan for the installation of a conveyor belt which would transport used trays and dishes directly to their destina­tion. Each of the two modified dining areas will be serviced by one conveyor system. Lines A and F, however, will continue the use of bus-carts. 
Although the system is due to arrive this week its installation is still pending. Price hopes to have the conveyor in use by the week's end, but he explained, "I'm not holding my breath." 
Price expressed a hope that the process, already in use at the South Dining Hall, would alleviate the traffic of cumbersome and often over-filled bus-carts and, in gen­eral, provide for "a better opera­tion.'' He also noted that A line will be closed for breakfast to provide for an increased use of more efficient lines such as B and C. 

focus on the concerns of faculty, spouses, and committee members regarding education for justice. 
Also on the agenda are several long range plans. Areas under investigation include: stimulating awareness of courses on justice and developing new courses, develop­ing experiential learning opportun­ities for academic credit and for no credit, helping in the search for a chair in the area of justice educa­tion, and forming a liason with the administration. 
The Education for Justice Pro­gram at Notre Dame is modeled after Detroit's Liberty and Justice for All Project. Plans for the initiation of a similiar program at Notre Dame began in August of 1976. On March 2, 1977, a revised proposal was drawn. It listed the immediate goal of the project, ''to form in our students a deeper awareness of the implications for justice in the disciplines they are acquiring and the roles which they aspire in business or professional life." 
Tom Basile, one of the arts and letters student representatives said, "I think that many people come into school too career-orien­tated. They must think about what type of person they want to be in that job. There's more in this world than just m~. and every line of work is going to affect other people. Justice and social issues are related to every facet of the world we live in, and we want more people to be aware of this." 
Selection of members for the 
University Committee on Educa­
tion for Justice was finalized last May. The purpose of the commit­tee, as stated in the March propo­sal, is "to oversee the development of a university-wide program, mon­itor the inter-collegiate concentra­tion (including counseling students in selection of courses, setting U(' entry and integrating seminars, and supervising field education experiences), recommend candi­dates for the inter-disciplinary position, and evaluate proposals for seed money in the area of justice 
education". 
Currently plans are underway for a lecture series. The group will also assist with the Urban Plunge. This program, which originated with the CILA group, allows Notre Dame students to "submerge themselves"into the city of their 
choice  for  48  hours  during  the  
semester break.  
As  Basile  stated,  "There's  a  

chance here for a very good thing to come about." 

Day editors wanted 
The Oboerver Is presently In need of sevenl pe1'80118 to work In the posldon of day editor on Monday IIIDd Wedoesday lifter· noons from 1 p.m. to S p.m. The . only qualifications for the Job are the abDlty to speak on the tele· · phone and some famDlarlty with • typewriter. Previous es:perleoce with The Observer Is preferred, bat not required. Those lntereated should call 1715 lllld uk for Barbara or Katie. 

goals. "We hope to penetrate through the whole university com­munity and raise the consciousness on social justice issues. We want to provide programs so that the students can be made aware of the issues through experiential learn­ing. We also want to raise the consciousness among faculty mem­bers so that they will bring the issues into the classroom. The main thing we are striving for is awareness." 
The committee met for the first time on Wednesday, Aug. 31 in the South Dining Hall. In this organi­zational meeting, members ac­quainted themselves and subdi­vided into task force groups. 
The committee's first project will be a "South Bend Orientation" where 200 students and faculty will explore justice related issues in neighborhoods. Slated for the following two days, Sept. 15-16, is a retreat entitled "Weekend of Reflection: Implications of Justice for our Disciplines" which will 
• 
' 
. 





I 
Wanted: Michigan State tickets . available. General admission, preferably. Will pay---------------­$. Call 4-4001 and ask for Jeanne or Mo. Greg · You're a year older now but 
------------------still have the nicest one on campus. 
NEEDED: Up to five tickets for Pitt Happy Birthday. game. Cal Bill 8772. 11 D 

SOUTH BEND I 
~·lk'*7r,'ribunt Everyday!I -----------------------------------­
~ wanted: JOE, BOB, KIP, JEROME, 
. Four GA tickets tor Southern Cal. Will SKI, AND KEN. • VERY SPECIA paygoodbucks. Call1423,askforMike. THANKS FOR THE FINE PERFORM+ ANCE OFF THE FOOTBALL FIELD.

Call 233.6161 Now! 
JULIE AND KAREN 5th RN.
"i _________________...;. 

!29.!~-2.22!.P..E.L!YJ.!LI 
L -­



Classified Ads 
Wanted . 2 giris to share Frani 234-3730. 
FEMALE EXERCISE INS WANTED. 3:00 ·8:00p.m. 

NOTICE in exercise, physical education, or ·All St. Mary's reporters for The Ob-preferred. Apply in person. New server and anyone interested in becoming Figure Salons, Inc. US 31 and a reporter. meeting. Wednesday, Sept 7 Road, South Bend. at 6:30p.m. in SMC Observer Office · ---:-------:-----­basement of Regina South . beneath Need nde for two to Milwaukee, Sat. Language Department. Mandatory! 10: Return trip if available. Call 
------------------1037. . ' 
Any desiring photos of Linda Ronstadt -·------------·-------·-·----1 
taken in concert Monday, Aug 29 (color or Desperately need tickets to M black'!Whitel please contact John at 8340 State and Southern Cal. or 136 Zahm. Marianne at 1262. 
Sewing repairs. Reasonable. Call 8051. Help Wanted. Service Station attend­------------------ants. Apply at 4902 Westrn Ave. Typing. Reasonable rates. Call 8051. Carwash. 
Need ride for Pitt game. Willing to FOR RENT and drive. Call 1581. Country house. For Re·.t located 10. 12-----------------,-­minutes from Notre Dar. e. Ideal for 1, 2, or 3 people. Call 277-3 04. FOR SALE 
------------------Navajo jewelry for sale: choker and earring sets, silver and penshell hleshi 
LOST AND FOUND with turquoise and coral stones. Wide Lost: One pale yellow garment bag selection · call Jim 6805. containing a woman's clothes behind-----------------­Zahm or Keenan. Please call 8350. 19" black and white TV. Not quite one ------------------year old. $75. 288-26811. LOST . set of keys on ring between -----------------­O'Shag . Ad. Bldg.. Huddle. Lib. on HEATH AR-15 Receiver, 50 Watts chan­Wed Aug. 31. Leather Tab with blue nel, walnut cabinet. Call 234-1596 on flowers. Teresa, 7734. weekends or after 5:30 p.m. Best offer. 
FOUND: On sidewalk 1976 Holy Cross '73 Vega 2-door. Inspected · Black and Preparatory class ring. Call Denise. white. $825.00. 234-5686. 4-5402. -----------------­------------------For sale . stereo reel to reel tape deck. 3 
motors, 4 heads with auto reverse. $500 WANTED new. Asking $225. Cal Pete 1182. 

NEEDED: -----------------­musicians --interested in being part of Sansui 32 watt receiver. Good condition. group to play for liturgies in halls1f£acred Call Dan at 1089. Heart. Call 6536 or 8832 between 9:00 -----------------­
a.m. and s p.m. adidas -"On Campus" ------------------COMPLETE LINE FOR ALL SPORTS. wanted . Call Bill 307.8. Two Pitt tickets. Call Bob 8330. -----------------­
Need GA and Student football tix to any PERSONALS 
home game. Call 8051. Are you an licensed pilot? The Irish ------------------Flyers offers you an economical way to Save my jugular! My parents from fly. For information call 6634, 6485, 1731 Seattle will carry razor blades unless 1?r attend meeting Thursday Sept 8, 4:30 
have two Michigan State tickets. Call 1n rm 105 Law School. Mike, 3510. -----------------­------------------Dear Bubbles, 
NEEDED: Ice is nice, One or two Student Season's passes. But aquarium water is quicker? Will pay good sss. Call: 283-8063. From the little red house on the prairie. 
o~~~~~~d~;5Pirt&~~witLo;~~~~~~~;;~n;~5;~ 
pay top dollar. Call George 8689. Illustrated. Call Tim or Bob after 5 p.m.. ------------------272-0239. Money and Fortune also 
The men's varsity tennis team held a tournament this past weeekend for students interested in joining the team. [photo by John Calcutt] 
Bob Koney, student co-ordinator 
student workers. The result is 
for the North Dining Hall, foresaw students are 
no changes in the number of 
students currently employed with lot of empty spaces." 
the addition of the conveyor belt 
system. He explained that workers the strict scr1eeninll 
who proviously concerned them­applicants for 
selves with bus-carts will be used 
to discard paper from trays and Office. He expressed his thanks 
prepare dishes for washing. the fine co-operation he has re­Koney remarked that the dining ceived from student workers who 
hall is presently operating with have had to put in extra hours to 
only about half its usual staff of rectify the employment situation. 

-~JI!IIII·J!I~.!!III~IIII!!I!I!!J!I-----------·
We're No. 1 1 in Notre Darnel Sports. 1 
I Read the 1 
r 
I I 8 the observer Monday, September 5. 19n 
I 
I 
r Irish boast fine opening game mark 
by Ken Ryder Sports Writer 

While opening games are usually not the most sharply played for any team, the opener often sets the tone for the start of a season. Especially for a perennial national contender like Notre Dame, an opening season loss can make the beginning of a season an uphill battle just to regain recognition as a winner. It is perhaps a fitting testament to the football greatness of Notre Dame then, that the Irish have won 12 of their last 13 opening game contests. 
Indeed, in the 90 year history of Notre Dame football, the Irish have an incredible record of 79 wins against only six losses and five ties in their season openers. Some of the more memorable of these contests include the 52-0 drUbbing of Kansas in 1938, the equally impressive 73-0 thrashing of Has­kell in 1932, and the 116-7 dem­olition of St. Viator in 1912. 
The era also saw the Irish win 30 straight games between 1902 and 1932, including 13 straight under the legendary Knute Rockne be­tween 1918 and 1930. 
In more recent history, the Irish scored 11 consecutive opening game victories under Coach Ara Parseghian during his reign from 1964 through 1974, including the 45-21 victory over Oklahoma in 1968, five straight opening game triumphs over Northwestern in which the Irish out-scored them 201-31, including a 44-0 victory in 1973, the beginning of a national championship. 
In their 90 year football history, Notre Dame has played Pittsburgh only four times in opening day competition. The 1943 Frank Leahy-coached Irish squad thrashed the Panthers 41-0 en route to their fourth national title championship. The following year the Irish again pummelled Pitt, this time by a score of 58-0. A third contest in 1947 saw the Panthers again fall to the Irish, 40-6, as Notre Dame under Leahy again captured the national title. 
The fourth opening day contest against Pitt occurred last year, as the Irish string of 12 consecutive opening game victories was snap­ped by Tony Dorsett and company, . 
Frosh down b-ba/1 veteran~s 
by Frank LaGrotta Sports Writer 
The Fighting Irish basketball 
team got back into the 'swing' of 
things yesterday as they staged an 
exhibition softball game at Kline 
Field. The contest saw last year's 
veteran hoopsters battle the coach­
es and freshmen for seven innings 
with the coach/rookie combination 
snatching a 10-9 thriller from the 
vets. It was the first time in three 
years that the veteran players 
failed to put the newcomers and 
their coaches to rest. 
The scoring started early and for 
a while it looked as if the oldtimers 
would have little trouble disposing 
of their opponents. Jeff Carpenter 
started things off with a single and 
his backcourt mate, Rich Branning, 
responded with a double down the 
third basde line. Duck Williams 
singled, driving both baserunners 
home. Freshman, Gilbert Salinas 
dropped Dave Batton's infield pop­
up and the veteran forward made 
the score 3-0 in favor of the 
veterans on a Tim Healy sacrifice 
fly to center field. 
When the newcomers got their 
turn swinging the lumbe~. Tracy 
Jackson and Kelly Ttipuicka slam­
med back-to-back singles setting 
up Bill Laimbeer's inside the park 
home run. Coach Digger Phelps 
flyed out to l:~aly in center field 
and Assistant coach, Frank McLau­
ghlin sent a screaming liner back to 
pitcher Duck Williams to end the 
inning. 
Tight defense and strong pitch­ing by Williams and Sports Infor­mation Director, Roger V aldiserri set the tone of the battle for the next two innings as neither team could manage a run. Gilbert . Salinas got things going again in the bottom of the third when he 
ripped a double into center field. 
Tripucka singled and both he and 
Salinas tallied on a long Stan 
Wilcox double making the score S-3 
in favor of the rookie/coach team. 
Dave Batton started off the fourth reaching first base by virtue of Coach McLaughlin's infield er­ror. Randy Haefner and Bill Hanzlik both hit safely and all three veterans crossed home plate (on two singles by Chris Fabian and Bruce Flowers) giving the veterans back the lead, 6-5. 
Digger Phelps displayed awe­some power and lightning speed as he blasted the ball into right field winding up at third base after bf.ating the throw from the out­fii:!ld. He scored on the next play when McLaughlin lifted a sacrifice fly to center field. The fourth inning ended in a deadlock, 6-6. 
Cage manager, Rick Gabbianelli stretched a long single into a 


luckily for Notre Dame, Tony Dorsett will not be in1volved in the collegiate football scene· when the Irish open in Pittsburgh f!)n Saturday. 
31-10. That victory proved to be the first of 12 for the Panthers as they went on to capture tlte national championship. 
Thus, a sound victory for the Irish over Pittsburgh on national 
two-bagger to lead of the fifth. Phelps and McLaughlin started Carpenter flied out to Phelps the freshmen/ coach comeback with before Branning launched another a pair of singles before a Dic.lt double into left field. Branning Kuchen double sent Phelps homoe scored on a Dave Baton single to making the score 9-7. Assistant make the score 7-6 in favor of the coach, Danny Nee lined a singl•~ veterans. into right sending in McLaughlin 
Williams held the freshmen scor-and the freshmen/ coach come back eless for the remainder of the was underway, 9-8. inning but the big veteran bats Duck Williams lost control on tht: could not be stopped in the sixth as mound and gave freshman Orlando Hanzlik, Healy and Fabian all hit Woolridge first on four straigh1t safely. Hanzlik scored on Fabian's balls. A Gilbert Salinas sacrifice fly hit to make the score 8-6, veterans. scored Kuchen and a double by 
It was the same story in the Tracy Jackson brought Woolridgt! bottom of the sixth as the fresh-home and gave his team victory by men/coach team could not get back narrow margin, 10-9. on the scoring track. The highlight The Fighting Irish basketball 
of the inning was Randy Haefner's team begin their practice (basket-spectacular diving catch of a Bill ball that is) for the 1977-78 season Laimbeer pop-up. Valdiserri kept on October 16. They open their the veterans quiet in the top of the exhibition season on Nov. 18 wi.th a ~eventh and score stood 9-.6 ~oing game against the Russian National 


mto the bottom of the last mmng. team. game
Paul Stevenson==========================================================:::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;::=:::=:::========================:=============:=================:=======:==:========:====================:==:====:======:===:=========:===:==================:=:====::=:=:=:==:=====:==:===========:========= 

The llrish Eye 
=============:======================·:============:=:=:======================:=:===:====::;:;:::===:=====================:================·==================::===============·=================================================================·=·========:===========================================================Anticipation 
The 1977 version of the Fighting h;sh football team is a squad many 
sources (Sports ffiustrated, Street and Smith's Magazine, Game P'lan 
Magazine and the United Press lnteJDatlonal just to name a few) h.llve 
pegged to win the National Championship. This is indeed a compliment to 
the team and to their coaches, however, Notre Dame is still twelve galllles 
away from achieving the goal which many feel is such a "sure thing." 
There is no doubt that the Irish are talent-laden with eighteen starters 
returning from last year's 9-3, Gator Bowl championship squad. Mnny 
believe that there will be no trouble duplicating the feat that Notre Dame 
last accomplished in 1973 when the hish ended their undefeated season 
beating Alabama, 24-23, in the Sugar .Bowl under Coach Ara Parseghian. 
Yes, the 1973 season will be one to remember for years to come. Notre 
Dame had been humiliated 40-6 in the Orange Bowl just one year priou· to 
their national title. The Irish, although always fielding a strong 
oontender, were not outright favorites to win the title, since they still had 
to come up with several key replacements. Parseghian filled those gaps, 
and by mid-season the Irish were on the move. 
Eric Penick broke around the left side and galloppe<l 85 yards for the 
score to lead Notre Dame to their 23-14 triumph <Wer USC. The 
momentum really started to build and continued to monument itself until 
coming to a climax in the Sugar Bowl. 
That was a season to remember. That feat could be accomplished once again this year, but the task will be difficult to say the least. Many schools can make their season with a victory over the Irish. Considering that many believe Notre Dame to be the number-one gridiron team in the lantd is quite an extra incentive. 
Head Coach Dan Devine speaks cautiously when he states that "We must come up with key performers in crucial positions where we lost outstanding players." Yes, the Irish must find a number-one signal caller to lead this veteran squad. 
Rusty Lisch replaced Rick Slager, who was injured late in the Alabama . contest last year, and did a fine job in preserving a 21-18 victory. TI1e junior quaterback received his first starting nod the following wet~k against Miami, a game in which he: threw for ·102 yards ·and two touchdowns in the 40-27 Irish victory. 
The other replacement that Devine had to find was for split end DaLD Kelleher. Kris Haines will take Kelleher's position when the Irish debtllt in Pittsburgh. Another last minute substitute is the one needed !ar JU Hunter. Sophomore Vagus Ferguson will attempt to pick up the slack iln the backfield. He will be joined by the team's leading rusher in 1975, Jerome Heavens, who missed last season because of a knee injury. The junior fullback. has made a remarkable comeb~ from his knee surgery of one year ago. With the added talents of Terry Eurick, Steve Orsini :and television could pmve to be the first day loss would almost assuredly stepping stone in Devine's quest to place a damper on Notre Dame's return the nation.aJ championship regaining the national crown. to Notre Dame. In fact, with the Indeed, this year's opener could abundance of tal!tmted teams in prQ.Ve to be the most important coiJege football tcday, an opening game of this season. 
r--------~--~~~---------------. 





%Observer 


Sports 
NBA ba!;;ketball game scheduled 

Tickets for the September 30 Notre Dame stars Austin Carr, professional basketball game be-Gary Brokaw and John Shumate. tween the C1evelan.d Cavaliers and the Buffalo Braves ,go on sale today 
Hockey meeting
at the ticket office of the ACC. 

Prices are listed ,at four, five and There will be an organizational six dollars. Notre Dame and St. meeting for returning hockey play­Mary's students will receive a ers and anyone else interested in special reduction of one doiJar off trying out for the hockey team any ticket purchase. Tuesday afternoon at 3:30 p.m. in 
The will feature former the ACC Auditorium. 
Dave Waymer, the Irish boast considerable depth in the backfield. 

The backfield shOiidd be able to contribute greatly to the hish offensive 
threats when one considers the offensive line which returns to the Golden 
Dome. However, tht~ success of the passing game still remains to be seen. 
Lisch, although having some experience, still has not been completely 
proven. H the Irish :;hould have to use their aerial attack, no team in the 
nation will be able to challenge them any better than Pittsburgh. The 
returning National Championship Panthers return all four starters in their 
defensive secondary. Pittsburgh led the nation in pass interceptions last 
season with 28. 

Bob Jury, who snagged ten interceptions last year returns to hold down 
the safety position. Jt~ffDelaney joins Jury as do cornerbacks J.C. Wilson 
and LeRoy Felder. Thus, an aerial attack may become a difficult task. 

The Panthers have a lot at stake come this Saturday. Pittsburgh, aside from being the retuming National Champions, has lost the duties of the greatest running b~l(:k in collegiate football history, Tony Dorsett . However, the team made Tony Dorsett, Tony Dorsett did not mate the team. The Panthers are out to prove that they are still as competitive without their miracle :rusher. 
With the return of fl((att Cavanaugh to call the signals, the Panthers will have a skilled man leading their team. Cavanaugh will be throwing for such targets as Gordon Jones and Willie Taylor. That ret:eiving duo caught a combined total of 38 passes for 706 yards and eight !touchdowns in 1976. The running attack will rely on Elliott Walker, a dynamite running back who ha.s been overshadowed for the past thrc:e years by Dorsett. Head Coach Jack Sherrill's freshman recruit, "Rooster"Jones, will also aid the rushi11g game. 
Thus, the Irish will really be tested in their opening oontest. In addition, the foiJowin,g two games will also be played on the road. This time away from home will be a s~preme test for the highly-tauted Irish. 
Sports Wustnted cc•mmented that "Four years ago the Irish played the three service academiic~s and won a share of the national ch~tmpionship with an undefeated St:Jtson." Making analogies like that is riidiculous if not just plain superstitious. 
Hone looks bact at the records, one observes that in 1973, when Notre Dame won the National Championship, the Irish defeated Pittsburgh 31-10. That happens tJI) be the same score by which the Panthers defeated the Irish last season en route to their national title. 
One can make all tht~ analogies be wants, but the final performance bas to be done on the foothnll field, not by a reporter on paper. The Irish have the potential, however, everyone is going to be gunning for them. Notre Dame holds its own d.t:stiny, and only twelve games from nciW will the 
•I)Utcome be truly known. 




