.r~----------------~---------------------------------------------------------------~------------------~--------------------------------------~-----, 
SMC,ND social commissioners join hands 
by Maureen Sajbel Senior Staff Reporter 
The Notre Dame and St. Mary's hall social commis­sioners joined forces this week in an effort to improve and facilitate communication in planning inter-hall and inter­school activities. The newly formed organization, the Notre Dame-St. Mary's Social Com­mission Council (SCC) will hold bi-monthly meetings in the Campus Ministry office in Badin Hall. 
The sec as a whole does not plan to sponsor social events, according to Mary Hesburgh, Lyons Hall social commis­sioner, but would give hall commissioners a chance to get together easily to plan inter­hall activities. 
Notre Dame's SCC formed last year during the Alcohol Awareness Program. "The commissioners didn't ~ven know each other then," stated Jack Hart, Holy Cross Hall social commissioner. "We first got together for the awareness program, a cam­paign aimed at de-emphasiz­ing alcohol in social situations on campus." 
The Notre Dame SCC voted this month to invite the St. Mary's social commissioners to join in their meetings, and Monday the commissioners from both schools met for the first time as a whole. At this meeting the members decided to add the list of St. Mary's social activities to the sec calendar in LaFortune. 
The Student Union Social Commission is a separate organization, but does have a connection with the sec through liason member, Tom Haller, Howard Hall social commissioner. 
"We co-sponsor social events with the hall commis­sioners," said Orest Deychak­wisky, Student Union social commissioner, "and so far its been working out really well." The Student Union co-spon­sored a square dance and a concert with Howard Hall and a block party with Keenan Hall. 
The new SCC consists of 26 members -22 from Notre Dame and 4 from St. Mary's: These members were appoint­ed by their respective hall presidents and councils. 
Organized Labor needs student input 
by Jean Fremeau Copy Editor Ed Sadlowski, a "rebel" leader ofthe United Steel Workers Union, (USW A), yesterday called for a change in attitude toward labor unions in America and urged students to "get into the work force and become part of the labor movement." Sadlowski spoke and fielded questions on ''The Labor Movement: Past and Future" to a  whether in this country there had been real political freedom, real free education and economic freedom before the CIO. "The answer would have to be 'no'." "In 1936 a group of labor leaders put together an organization that was going to unionize industrial workers. Within three years, over five million men and women joined the ranks of the CIO." And, he said, never before and never since "has one institution captivated the imaginations and  cause the "media and schools do not really tell the true story of the working man's heritage in this country, we don't have a proper picture of what is really going today." ''If you look at the shops, union as well as unorganized, you qill find conditions are atrocious. They are unsanitary, unsafe, and gene­rally unhealthy.' Sadlowski pointed out that we would find employers randomly polluting the environment, stan­ what the working man is confron­ted with, and probably has never been confronted with," he argued. "Organized labor has one heck of a task to instill in your minds what is really the plight of the worker," he continued. By organi­zine student trade unions, he suggested, students would become aware ofthe worker's plight. Even though the image of organ­ized labor today is distorted by "labor leaders telling you what is good for you and what isn't,"  
near capacity crowd at the Library Auditorium.  minds of so many. Never has an institution made such socially sig­ dards that cannot be enforced and tax loopholes that benefit the  Sadlowski is ''firmly convinced that the image and direction of organ­ 
As it stands today, he said, organized labor "finds itself in a quandary, in a doldrum of no groWth". The union is declining in membership, students are disillu­sioned with it and the intellectuals  nificant changes in the direction of this country. " Today, however, because of what Sadlowski called the 'mental atti­tude" which exists in the leader­ship of organized labor, and be- employer. "This country still maintains that 'Calvinistic' ethic of 'what belongs to me belongs to me,' of 'toil from sunup to sundown,' and free enterprise. The fact. is, that is not  ized labor can be changed. You can beat City Hall." The labor leader then cited poverty, crime, apprehension and economic inequality, as well as fear [continued on page 101  

and labor leaders are turned off by it. 
In the 1930's when the Congress of Industrial Organizations (CIO) was started, ''rather than embarkin on changing the system, it bacame part of it. Basically, this reflects why we are where we are today." 
According to Sadlowski, six inci­

The
dents in our history have had significant impact on the social direction of America, namely the Revolutionary War, the inception of free public education, the Civil War, Industrial Revolution and the organization of the CIO and the Civil Rights movement. 
Observer
Without the inception ofthe CIO, the first four events would be 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's "meaningless and the Civil Rights movement would never have 
Vol. XII, No. 18 Thursday, September 22, 1977 
occured". Sadlowski asked 
Lance delivers resignation 
WASHINGTON [AP]-Bert Lance mounting controversy over Lance's resignation had been distributed. proven," the president said. resigned yesterday as director of past handling of his personal Before responding to questions, Carter repeatedly referred to the the Office of Management and finances and his Georgia banks' Carter read the letter. When he allegations raised against Lance as Budget and insisted he was return­affairs. reached the sentence, "I have "unproven," and said that "when ing to Georgia with a clear con­Carter accepted Lance's resig­decided to submit my resignation he Lance was given a chance to science and with his good name nation with ''the greatest sense of as director of OMB" the Presi­testify ·on his own behalf he was restored. regret and sorrow'' and described dent's voice stumbled on the word able to clear his name." 
In a letter of resignation that him as "a good and honorable "resignation." Carter blamed himself for some ended the first major crisis of the man." Every question from reporters Carter presidency, Lance said he "Bert Lance is my friend," concerned the Lance affair. While was "convinced" he could have Carter told a nationally broadcast answering them, Carter's eyes continued to be an effective OMB new conference. "I know him frequently were downcast, his lips director. But he said he was personally as well as if he was my drawn in a tight line. After 34 stepping down "because of the own brother. '' _minutes, he terminated the news amount of controversy and the Carter's news conference was conference without waiting for the continuing nature of it.'' delayed two hours while Lance traditional, "Thank you, Mr. Pre­
''As I said at the Senate hearings completed his resignation letter. sident," from the senior wire my conscience is clear," Lance By the time the President entered service reporter. declared. the auditorium for the announce­Sen. Sam Nunn, D-Ga., Lance's 
His action ended months of a ment, copies of Lance's letter of principal defender on the Senate Governmental Affairs Committee, said the current atmosphere in 

Washington made it impossible for Lance to perform his duties at
Bender states priorities OMB. Sen. Charles Percy, R-lll., who
by Rosemary Mills contact is the Wednesday evening Many problems stem from this." 
Senior Staff Reporter session in LaFortune Student Cen­Special Projects Co-ordinators, asked some of the harshest ques­ter. Starting last week, both Jim Siefert and Wally Saad, are tions during Lance's three days Bender and his vice-president, working with co-education director before the committee, said, ''The 
Addressing itself to the needs of Tom Soma, are available at 6:30 Anne Thompson to solve the prob­
President and Mr. Lance have 
the individual student is the first p.m. for an open disdcussion. The lem. Bender said the solution ·made the correct decision." of Lance's current financial pro-priority of Student Government, meetings will last from "onehalf consists of two parts. "First we The Senate Democratic majority blems. ' according to President Dave hour to an hour, depending on how have to show that the problem leader, Robert C. Byrd of West "If there's any fault, it's mine
Bender. many students show up, and what exists," he stated. "In the past," Bender stated, they want to talk about," Bender During the past weekend, photo­Virginia, considered a key wea­because of the -strict requirements 
"Student Government has picked said. graphs were taken of hall and room thervane in the Lance case, com­we placed on him," specifically the one little project to concern them­Members of Bender's cabinet parties. "The pictures support mented that "the nation cannot requirements that Lance sell his selves with." Bender plans to use . will also be visiting the halls to talk claims that individual rooms are too 
afford to have as director of the bank stock, Carter said. 
his cabinet to bring the students about topics in their specific areas. compact to hold decent parties. 
Office of Management and Budget, The President said he and Lanceand the Student Government These meetings will begin in about Since no dancing or entertainment a man whose personal problems met Monday morning to discuss
closer. one month. According to Bender, can be provided, students can only 
The specialization ofbetween ten the first commissioners to visit will indulge in drinking." These are so great that they detract from the controversy and Carter said he and twenty Omsbudsmen into a probably be from the judicial pictures may be presented later the performance of his duties." asked Lance ''to make his own special complaint department is committee. with suggested solutions to the The former Georgia banker in­decision.'' 
part of the plan. According to problem. sisted in his letter that he had "I did not ask for Bert's resig­
Bender, every-day complaints, Social Space Main Issue The commissioners plan to study cleared his reputation last week nation," he said. 
such as the lateness of the shuttle other schoolos with the same or during three days of testimony A reporter asked if Carter would bus, will be handled directly by the Many issues are presently filling similar enrollment for possible before a Senate committee. He sought the budget director's resig­
Omsbudsman. Major complaints the Student Government agenda. ideas. Bender feels that the will still b.y handled by Student Besides the judicial boaril settle­solution of the problem should be said: ·~As I said at the Senate naion had it not been volunteered, Government. "If a lot of people ment, lack of social space is a main· regarding the residence halls first hearings, my conscience is clear . .-and the President replied, ''That'..s 
concern. According to Bender, and dealing later with the univer­
call about the same thing," he Carter clearly agreed. "I think hard to say.'' 
said, "it will be considered major." ''The social space in many halls is sity in general. 
his honor and integrity have been [continued on page 10]Another· step toward st~dent poor compared to other schools. [continued on page 2] 
..---------------------~--~-~ ~ ~---~ ~-­
Thursday, September 22, 1977
2 the obHrver 
,_News Briefs _____ 
t==:==================================== World 
Mid-East peace possible 
WASHINGTON-Egyptian Foreign Minister Ismail Fahmy met 
at the State Department yesterday with Secretary of Stae Cyrus 
R. Vance and said he believes a Middle East peace conference can be convened in Geneva before the end of the year, but only if all parties work hard toward that objective. 
J-::::=::::==::::===:::::::::==::::==::::==::::==== National 
Tax compromise 

WASHINGTON-The Senate Finance Committee began piecing together a compromise yesterday that would allow President Jimmy Carter to salvage a crucial part of his energy tax program, but would rule out tax rebates for most Americans. The new olan would pay for federal aid to energy producers and tinance a wide variety of transit and energy conservation programs. 
Consumer prices rise 
WASHINGTON-Consumer prices rose by only three-tenths of one percent last month, the lowest monthly rate of inflation since last Novembe~, the Labor Department reported yesterday. The August mcrease reflected continued moderation in grocery pnces and a slowdown in the cost of services, including household charges and mortgage interest rates. 
Gas tanks dangerous? 
WASHINGTON -The Transportation Department announced yesterday it has launched a major investigation of fuel tank fires in all subcompact cars sold in this country. 
The action follows charges by Ralph Nader and others that in past models of the Ford Pinto, the gasoline tanks were located in a hazardous position. 

Indiana population increases 
BlOOMINGTON* IN-Indiana's population jumped two percent to 5,302,000 during the first six years of this decade. The report, published in the September issue of Indiana Business Review, termed the growth rate natural and linked it to a higher birth than death rate. However, while the state's population increased 106,000, the report noted that 140,000 more persons left Indiana than moved.in. 

WEATHER 
Cloudy with a 40 percent chance of showers and thunderstorms through tonight. Highs today in the mid to upper 60's. Lows in the mid SO's. Partly sunny tomorrow with highs in the low 70's. 


~On Campus Today _ _. 
4:30pm 
7,9,11 pm· 7 pm 
7 pm 
7:30 pm 7:30pm 
8 pm 
9-11 pm midnight 
.....~ ..,~ ..., .................................................~........... "' .......~.................~... ,.........-.-.~ ............ ·~·...,......
~ 

lecture, william faulkner: the history teacher vs. the fiction, prof. carvel collins, rare book room, memorial library, sponsored by english dept. open to public. 
film, uptown saturday night, eng. aud., $1. 
placement night, college of business administration washington hall. ' 
meeting, smc nursing club, stapleton lounge. 
talk, "cystic fibrosis", dr. gregesha, sponsored by the smc nursing club, stapleton lounge. 
lecture, "blacks in american films," donald bogie, sponsored by black studies, library aud., open to public. 
lecture, "the future of britain with the european community," lord kennet of britain, sponsored by institute of international studies, 1201 memorial lib., open to public. 
nazz, performance by rex delcamp, mike tsubota, jim hora 
wsnd album hour, outlaws "hurry sundown" 

Bender outlines goals 

registration. "We want to make the students aware ofthe community," Hardy said. She cited volunteer programs in the city as possible programs. 
The Neighborhood Roots Pro­gram was one outgrowth of the new commission. 
Although the Academic Commis­sion is not new, it has introduced a new program. Commissioner Flor­enceanne Strigle is working with the Hall Presidents Council to establish a hall tutoring program. 
According to Strigle, the pro­gram is aimed at upperclassmen who are not provided tutoring through University programs. Although it is presently through the HPC, she hopes the individual hall academic commissioners will organize it next semester. "The response varied from hall to hall," Strigle commented. 
The Committee is also working to establish an academic policy on campus. 
Joe Ungaschick, off-campus commissioner, is attempting to provide off-campus students with more news pertaining to them. A bulletin board for their specific use has been set up in the Huddle. The purpose is to prevent these stu­dents from a feeling of separatio'l from the rest of the community. 
This year the Student Govern­ment and the Student Union are presenting a joint newsletter. Under Pete Longo, the bi-weekly publication will inform students of relevant campus topics. 
A paper drive has also been established under the direction of Administrative Assistant John Ryan. Newspapers will be picked up in residencew halls every Sun­day night. 
Alumni Representative Patty Dondanville has sent a weekly newsletter to the Alumni Board. The newsletter covers subjects not presented in the bi-weekly alumni magazine. 
Presently the Alumni Board is working on two major projects. In conjunction with the Student Union, they are developing plans for homecoming. They are also working to establish a national summer placement program for students. 
Aspecialbreed. 

What does it take to be a Marine officer? It takes strength, agility, coordination, endurance, intelligence. moral and physical courage. It takes desire. determination and grit. Above all, it takes the ability to lead other Marines 
under conditions of extreme stress. I~ 
short. it takes a special breed of man. If you bave what it takes, we'll bring out the best in you. Contact us. Now' 
In LaFortune 9am-4 pm Today and Friday 

The Few.The Proud.The Marines. 






Don't look now but ... it's painted on the wall. [photo by leo 
Glenmary program is valuable experience 
by Jim Coyne 

Steve Dane said it was "living life with gusto". Lee Hills remark­ed that it was "a major turning point in my life", one that "solidi­fied my Christian values". Dane and Hills used these words to describe the Glenmary Home Mis­sions' summer program. 
The Glenmary volunteer pro­gram recruits high school and college students from all parts of the country to work among the poor and the needy in Appalachia and rural areas of the South. Working in groups of between 30 and 40 people, under the supervision of the Glenmary staff, the students engage in building projects: repairing and remodeling homes and also some light construction. 
Those volunteers opting for a one week program stay at the Glenmary 
Farm, located in Vancburg, KY.. According to one participant, the 
program is not all work. Volunt­teers are able to understand better the problem of poverty, and also
have the chance to learn more ~~~t0~~-culture and the people of 
One of the most rewarding aspects of the program is the community spirit that is built up among total strangers in just one week. Members of the Glenmary 
staff keep in contact with the IAI"-"'MrNWMIYW....MIYWY.I'YIWW.....I'YI'rN'a"111MM'r/VV\jMN~ 
volunteers throughout the year. Dane and Hill had only the highest praise for the Glenmary staff, because they took a personal interest in everyone involved in the program. 
Both Dane and Hills agreed that the program was a lot of work, but also a lot of fun. Dane is a five year veteran of the program, while Hills has participated twice. 
Some students were involved in the program for longer than a week. Tom Miller, a junior from Laurel, MD, worked five weeks in Jefferson, NC. After the orienta­tion at the Glenmary Farm, Miller went to Jefferson and became active in establishing a recreation program for children. This involv­ed visiting various families, and securing the use of a local school's facilities. Miller said the program was designed primarily for "kids who never had a decent break". 
Miller described his experience as "a fantastic five weeks", and added, "we saw conditions that we had previously seen only in books". He said it was a challenge to see how effective one could be in helping others. "The community atmosphere of Glenmary helped me to grow a lot," Miller stated, "and it opened my eyes.'' 
John Kuluz, a sophomore from participated in the program "to see how it really was", and to "try to help others". He called his work a "humbling experience", adding that there is an emphasis on religion in the program Kuluz also said that he found the people he worked with to be very open and honest, and very few were reluctant to be aided by the program. He said he would definitely "go 
again.'~ 
Summer is not the only time of year that the Glenmary program is in operation. The same type of program is offered for three weeks during the Christm~s break. 
Anyone desiring more informa­tion on Glenmary or any of its programs may contact Steve Dane, Lee Hills, or the Volunteer Services Office, located on the 1.5 floor of the LaFortune Student Center. 
vo.I'JI.WY.IYIIYWY.MIYWY.MNWY.MW._...MMW......MNW~ 
Holy Cross(ND)-LeMans 

HAppy HOUR 
Frl·day, Sept. 23 3_6 pm 
G0 tor the
M


aX at Kubiak's 
Mixed Drinks 1f2 PricePitchers '175• 
PRE GAME SI-IOW 
Friday, 3 -6pn1 120Z. BEERS 
40¢
michelob heineken 75¢ DRINKS 75! 
SATURDAY GAMETIME! 1-6pm 120Z. BEERS 35c 
9-llpm GIMLETS GIN & TONICS 7 & 7's 
soc 


Fri., Sept. 23 
9pm -midnight 
chips & pretzels plus-Snack Bar Special-Giant ~OC)kiE!S'tl 
Thursday, September 22, 1977 
the observer 


Drollinger convicted of murder 
HARTFORD CITY* IN [AP] ­Roger C. Drollinger was convicted yesterday of fir~>t degree murder in the St. Valentine's Day shotgun slayings of four young brothers. 
A Blackford Circuit Court jury of seven men and five women deliber­ated just an hour before returning the verdict. 
It was guilty on all four counts of first degree murder in the deaths of teenagers Ralph, Reeve and Ray­mond Spencer and their stepbro­ther, Gregory Brooks. Under state law, the maximum sentence is life imprisonment for each count. 
Drollinger, 24, Waynetown, identified by two co-defendants and the lone survivor as the man who ordered the nightmarish at­tack, accepted the verdict without emotion. He sat quietly, his legs crossed and glanced at the jury and the judge. 
Judge Bruce Bade ordered Drol­linger transferred to the Indiana State Prison at Michigan City and set sentencing for Oct. 17. 
"I thought he took it very well," said David Ford, one of Drollin­ger's attorney. "He's told us he's prepared for the worst and as far as he's concerned this is the worst." 
Ford said the verdict probably will be appealed. 
Chief defense attorney Michael Conway had already left to return to Indianapolis when the jury came into the courtroom with its deci­sion. 
The verdict came after 10 days of testimony _that even defense Con­way said was devastating to Drol­lihger, a man the prosecution said wanted to kill for killing's sake. 
Drollinger had steadfastly main­tained his innocence, taking the witness stand himself earlier this week to claim that he was being framed by police and used by his friends and co-defendants as a scapegoat. 
In his closing arguments, how­ever, Parks County Prosecutor C1elland Hanner said the evidence against Drollinger "has gone toge­ther like piecing together . . . a jigsaw puzzle.'' 
"There is no doubt can't be any doubt in your mind as back out in society?" to this man's guilt," the prosecutor Shaking his finger at Drollinger, told the jury. Hanner clenched his teeth and 
Conway countered with DroUin-said, "You have murdered my ger's alibi that he was home in bed friends, you and three others-and at the time of the murders shortly hopefully you'll pay for it.'' after midnight on Feb. 14. Earlier, John Dowd, the assist­
''The truth is usually pretty ant prosecutor, said there was no simple and what he told you was chance Mrs. Spencer had made a pretty simple," the Indianapolis mistake. attorney said. "Betty Spencer has lived this 
Hanner stressed that Drollinger thing everyday since it happened was identified by three eye-wit-and will for the rest of her life," he nesses -two co-defendants -and said. "I don't think there's any Betty Spencer, the lone survivor of way she would come up here and .. the murders. . try to fabricate to put somebody in 
Conway argued that the co-de-prison for the rest of his life. She fendants, Daniel Stonebraker and was there, she saw it happen, she Michael Wright, hoped to make saw who did it." Drollinger the scapegoat and that Conway, admitting that he Mrs. Spencer, wounded during the was moved by Mrs. Spencer's shootings an<:J upset over the tearful account of the slayings, deaths of her four sons, was urged the jurors not to let emotions mistaken when she identified his override facts. client. "Believe me, I was moved by 
"This was the most horrible, her testimony," he said. "I think hideous crime we've ever had down she truely believes she saw Roger in our county," Hanner said. "Are Drollinger.. But I don't think she you going to tum a man like this [continued on page 5] 
l~.._.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f 
1 ~ PebbleWood 1 , Country Club t 
' . t 
: FRIDAY AND SATURD~~~~HT$2.00 ADMISSION : 
t Ladies Night ,
t EVERYWEDNESDAY-GENTLEMEN$1 : t LADIES FREE ; 
: DRESS CODE ENFORCED ~ 
t JERICHO & SHAWNEE ROADS, BRIDGMAN, MICH. t 
a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .... ~~J 
Your Source for the Unusual in Diamonds and Precious Gems Platinum and Gold Jewelry 
You'll find untold treasures of the finest quality brought to you by the eye of an expert.* And sold with the care of a professional.* 
Insurance appraisals and purchases of fine diamonds and estate jewelry provided. 
"Graduate Gemologist: Gemological Institute of America "Fellow Gemmologist: Gemmological Association of Great Britain 
•s.A.: Indiana University Lobby St. Joseph Bank Building South Bend, Indiana 
Telephone: 287-1427 John M. Marshall's 


C:0£amond 9mpo!tt Company 
Your Source for the Unusual 

.. ­






Ch~ltra 

(SMC Coffeehouse) 

JJp~ 

Grand Opening 
with Jake Schneider & Bill Carey John Pietzak & Ed Byrnes John Daley 
Pascagoula, Miss., worked in East-1~~~~~~!!!!!!!!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
4 

the observer Thursday, September 22, 1977 
SMC Frosh meet tonight 
by Laurie Lee Foss 
A mandatory meeting for all St. \1ary's freshmen will be held at 

7:30 p.m. next Wednesday in the <\ngela Athletic Facility. Accord­ng to Mary Rukavina, St. Mary's Student Body president, the tssembly will clarify the proposal ·or a Freshmen Council and put it 1p for a vote by the freshmen class. The proposal to replace the ;tandard four freshmen officers .vith a council of elected freshmen representatives was unanimously 
· passed by the St. Mary's Student Assembly last February. The proposal stated that one represen­tative would be elected for every 25 students, providing at least one delegate from each hall. 
The purpose of the new-plan wa~ 

to involve a greater number ot people in Student Government and to provide experienced people for p_ost!l in the coming years. Accord­ing to the proposal, workshops were to be held in the first semester to inform the elected representatives of their positions in 
Student Government. 
Because of the complaints brought forth by several members of the freshmen class, this proposal is now being reconsidered. Wed­nesday night's meeting will include an attempt to weigh the advantages and disadvantages of the new council with the old system. 
Using a debate-type format, Rukavina and Nancy Mogab, senior class president, will discuss with Kathy Murphy, one of the origina­tors of the council, the pros and cons of the new system. At the 

u.J ::c A Comedy of Errors ..... SMCShakespeare's merry masquerade. Odober7, 8, 13, 14, 15 THEATRE at8:00 p.m. All seats $2.50 O'Laughlin ($2 Std-Fac-Staff} Phone: 284-4176 Auditorium  
SEASON TICKETS STILL AVAILABLE.................... 4 PLAYS $9 ($7 Std-Fac-Staff) Includes: COMEDY OF ERRORS, CAUCASIAN CHALK CIRCLE, TOUCH OF A POET, and THE MIKADO  
The Commons across from Corby's 826 Eddy 233-0875 Italian Pizza Italian Sandwiches Monday-Saturday -1 0:30am-1:OOam  

Carry out-Pizza & Uquor (formerly Cliff's) 
STYLES OF ATHLETIC SHOES TENNIS WEAR WARM UP SUITS SWIM WEAR & T -SHIRTS ATHLETIC BAGS 

100 CENTER 
.255-7770 


MISHAWAKA 

-------------------------------------. 
conclusion of the meeting, the subject will be opened for a vote by all freshmen. 
If the proposal for the Freshmen Council passes, plans for submis­sion of platforms and campaigning will begin shortly. If, howe.ver, the sfandard four officer system is favored, the proposal must be brought before the St. Mary's Student Assembly and implement­ed into the .student handbook, replacing the Freshman Council system. 

CLAFUFICATION 
The committee which will draft the du Lae rules changes will be composed of either three or six members. The definite number has not ye:t been decided by the Student Life Council, which will appoint committee members to­night. The Hall Presidents Council article in yesterday's Observer did not make it clear that the number is not yet definite. 
Cash awards av•iilable to cotnposers 
A total of $15,000 is available to young composers in the 26th annual BMI Awards to Student Composers competition sponsored by Broadcast Music, Inc., a per­forming rights licensing organ­

ization. Established in 1951 in coopera­tion with music educators and composers, the BMI Awards pro­
ject annualy gives cash prizes to encourage the creation of concert music by student composers of the 
Western Hemisphere and to aid them in lfinancing their musical education. Prizes ranging from $300 to $2,500 will be awarded at the discretion of the judges. 
The 1977-78 BMI Awards com­petition is open to student com­posers who are citizens or perm­anent residents of the Western Hemisphere and are enrolled in accredited secondary schools, col­leges and conservatories, or engaged in private study with recognized and established teach­ers anywhere in the world. Entrants must be under 26 years of age on December 31, 1977. No limitations are established as to instrumentation, stylistic consider­
ations or length of works submit­ted. Students may enter no more than one composition, which need not have been composed during the year of entry. 
The permanent chairman of the BMI judging panel is William Schuman, distinguished American composer and educator. 
just  stood  there  .  .  i•  . ,s  
strange."  
Brother  Borrow"  .••e  fire  
department cl  "'  -•'l  ncident as  

The 1977-78 competition closes February 15, 1978. Official rules and entry blanks are available from James G. Roy, Jr., Director, BMI A wards to Student Composers, Broadcast Music, Inc., 40 West 57th St., New York, N.Y. 10019. 
The jazz Band performed in the Nazz last night. [photo by John 
Calcutt] 

Scheduled fire drill failed in Memorial Library 
by Mark Rust 

A fire alarm system's electrical malfunction in the Memorial Libra­ry prevented a scheduled 11 p.m. fire drill from taking place by failing to alert the 2nd through 13th floors of the practice Monday night. The situation is being looked into by the Notre Dame Fire Department and they report the alarm has been fixed. 
According to a few of the 800 students who were studying in the building at the time, only the alarm on the first floor sounded. A library spokesman reported that it probably worked on a "part" of the second floor. At the time she was monitoring the second floor and waited patiently for the alarm to sound. "It didn't," she said, ... 
"just a n.e,na.uc:.., problem; 1t's just like a cPr -sometimes it won't start." 
In response .o the a•.· :stion of what might ha· e .pJ_)ened had there really be• ,, a eire, Borromeo stated, "We'd just have to walk around informing people." 
we are happy to be part of the 

1'lowPrintersT_M neighborhood 

FAST PRINTING 
resumes •term papers • flyers annc•uncements • transparencies on U.S. 31 one block south of Wendy's 
5 minutes from campus 277-3355 
"Look, have you ever seen a fire drill in Grace of Flanner?" he asked rhetorically. "People don't leave -people pull those things (fire alarms) so often. In case of a fire the RA 's and rector would just have to go door to door and kick them out like in Morrissey last week. That's the curse of the false 
fire alarm." The library's alarm system is now reported to be in working order. 
Director Darby projects movies 
Darby O'Gill, canine host of Darby's Place in the basement of LaFortune Student Center and general B.D. O.C., has announced that he will step behind the movie projector tonight to present two classic film shorts. 
Starting at 12:10 a.m., guests can 

view The Three Stooges in "The 
Roomers" and Charlie Chaplin in 
"The Tramp." There is no charge 
for dog lovers. 
Darby also reminds everyone that doughnuts and refreshments are available every night, plus ham sandwiches on Sundays . Darby's is open Sunday through Thursday from midnight until 4 
a.m. for anyone interested in a quiet place to talk or study. Fr. Rob'lrt Griffin is the proprietor. 
~'.epublicans 
welcome Orr 

According to Chad Tiedemann, chairman of the Notre Dame Col­lege Republicans, Lt. Governor Bob Orr will appear at the South Bend Republican headquarters to­night from 5 to 7 p.m. for an informal meeting with college youth. Current problems and issues ·viii be discussed at the meeting and refreshments will be served. 
Tiedemann said that rides to the headquaters are available. Cars will leave from the Main Circle at 
4:45 and 5:40 p.m., and anyone interested is encouraged to attend. 


Oktoberfest plans get underway 
by Anne Bachle Plans for the Oktoberfest cele­bration next week highlighted last night's meeting of the St. Mary's Social Commission. Tickets will be on sale at the dining halls all next week for the raffle of a Pioneer stereo and also for the performance of psychic hypnotist Gil Eagles next Thurs­day. The traditional Oktoberfest t-shirts will also be available for sale. Other Oktoberfest events planned include beer specials at Senior Bar Wednesday night, a German dinner at St. Mary's Thursday night, games, happy 
hour at the Library, a dance and the "Biergarten" Friday, and a pre­game party at the Campus View 
clubhouse Saturday from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. 
Entertainment at the St. Mary's coffeeshop on an every·other-week basis will begin this Friday night 
Saint Mary's opens pool 

The St. Mary's pool, located on the first floor of Regina South, will be open for .student swimming this semester at the following times: Monday through Friday from noon to 1 p.m., 4 to 7 p.m., and 9 p.m. to midnight; Saturday from 1 p.m. to midnight; and Sunday frqm noon to 5 p.m. and 6 p.m. to midnight. 
All swimmers are requested to wear bathing caps. Also, the new
r 
policy concerning male Notre Dame students restricts their presence in the pool area to Regina's weekend parietal hours. 
Harpsichord weekend approaches 
St. Mary's College is sponsoring three recitals featuring three famous musicians as part of Harp­sichord Weekend on Sept. 23, 24, and 25. 
Penelope Crawford is a graduate of the Eastman School of Music and holds a masters degree from the University of Michigan. She is on the music faculty at Oakland Uni­versity and is a harpsichordist with Ars Musica, an dAnn Arbor-based baroque orchestra which uses in­struments from that period. 
This Friday, at 8 p.m. in the Little Theatre of Moreau Hall, Crawford will perform works by J .S.Bach, Scarlatti and William Byrd. 
Larry Palmer, trained at the 

Oberlin Conservatory and the East­
man School of Music, is also an 
accomplished organist and teaches 
at the Meadows School of the Arts 
at Southern Methodist University 
in Dallas. 
Palmer's program features 

works by J.S. Bach and four 
prominent twentieth-century com­
posers: Herbert Howells, Rudy 
Shakelford, Gyorgy Ligeti and Vin­
cent Persichetti. When he appears 
;1t 8 p.m. on Saturday, September 
23, in Moreau Hall's Little Theatre, 
he will be playing an instrument 
made by William Dowd, the world 
famous harpsichord craftsman 
from Boston. 
The Sunday afternoon recital, 

scheduled for 3 p.m. in the chapel 
of Regina Hall, features old and 
new music for the harpsichord, 
organ and celesta, performed by 
Martin Haselboeck, Bruce Gustaf­
son and Arthur Lawrence. 
Haselboeck, a young Viennese 

organist and harpsichordist, grad­
uated from the Music Academy in 
Vienna and has studied under 
several world famous European 
organists, including Anton Heiller, 
Flor Peeters and Jean Langlais. 
Currently guest professor for Or­
gan at Iowa's Luther College, 
Haselboeck has received awards 
for excellence, including two from 
the Cultural Ministry of Vienna. 
Gustafson, coordinator of the 

Harpsichord Weekend, is a special­
ist in seventeenth-century harpsi­
chord music and is an assistant 
professor of music at Saint Mary's 
College. 
with student performers from 9 
p.m. to midnight. Future plans for "Charlie's Place" include a variety of snackshop specials and silent movies. 
Social Commissioner J o Ann Baggiano expressed satisfaction with the full house in attendance at the performance of ''Second City' last Saturday night. "I think everyone enjoyed it, and the turn­out proves there's really a need for alternative entertainment like this," she commented. 
Placement Bureau to hold meeting for business seniors 
There will be an informative Placement Bureau meeting for graduating Business Administra­tion seniors tonight in Washington Hall from 7 to 9 p.m. 
,
Guest speakers will include 
Daniel Shogren of Touche Ross and 
Co., John Prendergast of Arthur 
Young and Co. and Irv Pheiffer, 
director of college relations for 
I.B.M. 
Tomorrow, from 9 to 12 a.m. in 
the Blue and Gold Room of the 
Morris Inn, a panel consisting of 
representatives from eight com­
panies will present a series of short 
talks on career paths for Master of 
Business Administration (MBA) 
students. All MBA students are 
urged to attend. 
Placement Bureau manuals will 

be passed out and sign-up proce­
dures explained at these important 
meetings. 
The third musician, Arthur Law­rence, is associate professor of music at Saint Mary's, and editor of The Diapason, the international journal for organists and harpsi­chordists. Lawrence has perform­ed previously in this country and in Europe. 
A new composition by Bruno Liberda, Austrian avant-garde composer, will make its world premier at the recital. Written for the organ, harpsichord and celesta, Liberda's new work was composed specifically for Haselboeck. 
All three concerts are open to the public. Tickets for each concert are $3.00 for the general public, and $1.50 for students. Tickets may be reserved by calling the Ticket Office, 284-4176, from 9 a.m. · noon and 1 p.m. -4 p.m., Monday through Friday. Tickets may also be purchased at the door. 
Drollinger convicted 

[continued from page 3] did." Pointing out that based on Mrs. Spencer' information, police drew up composites of only three sus­
pects, Conway said, "If she saw him at the scene of the crime, where's his composite? Why did she tell detectives that there were 
only three men?" 
Conway said that Wright and Stonebraker made up the story implicating Drollinger during the period be.tween the Feb. 14 mur­ders and Stonebraker's arrest on March 8. ''They had plenty of time to talk," he said. 
Conway said the two co-defen­dant's testimony that Drollinger held Brooks by the head and fired point blank as the youth begged for mercy was "a good story" but could not have happened. 
"It enhances the horror of Roger Drollinger, but it's impossible," he said maintaining that Drollinger's hand would have been burned or 
blown off by  the  impact  of the  
blast.  
"The  purpose  is  to  create  

enough horror to keep you from thinking," he said. "To create enough horror to convict this man." 
·• • ... • +. '.ot ...... ,-f' -.,.. ':' ~ •••.1•. 
Thursday, September 22, 1977 the observer 
411 Waverly Oaks Road/Waltham, Mass. 02154 
Texas lnstrumentsr~~ Programmab~58 

The advanced key programmable with plug-in Solid State Software rM libraries 
INCLUDES FREE LEISURE LIBRARY 
($35.00 value I Offer good Aug. 15­
0ct. 15, 1977) 

An exceptional value for the professional or the advanced student. 
The Tl Programmable 58 utilizes Tl's state-of­
the-art advance in pr-:>grammable calculators: 
Solid State Software. This revolutionary 
development gives you complete prepro­
grammed libraries, of up to 5,000 program 
steps each, in convenient plug-in modules. 
You can also key-in programs you develop, 
right from the keyboard. 


Other Texas Instruments Calculators 
Tl  57  $64.95  Tl  Bus. Analyst  $28.25  
Tl  SR56  $67.95  Tl  30 S. P.  $17.25  
Tl 59  $229.95  Tl  Money Manager $17.50  
Tl PC100A  $159.95  Tl  1750  $16.95  
Tl  SR40  $23.95  Tl  5050M  $79.95  
Tl  SR51-II  $48.50  
Tl  2550-111  $23.95  

CALL OUR 24 HOUR TOLL FREE ORDER LINE 1-800-225-8493 ASK FOR OUR FREE 64 PAGE CATALOG-INCLUDING :SPECIALTY ELECTRONICS. STEREOS,TAPE DECKS, RADIOS, T.V.'S 
Hewlett Packard HP-29C/19C 
The HP-29C has continuous memory capability so programs of your choice are saved, ready for use, until you clear them or over write them with more programs. 
As a result you can program frequently-needed calcula­tions once, and then perform them as often as necessary­hour after hour, day after day-without bother or lost time caused by reentering your program. 
The 29C also retains data in 16 of its 30 registers, so you can store away needed constants or record data in the field for later use. 
As an added convenience, the number in the display is also saved by continuous memory. And the display format is kept as well. 
You can operate the HP-29C on batteries alone or from a convenient electrical outlet while batteries are being recharged. 
Battery operating time is significantly extended since the calculator may be switched off between calculations or in the midst of writing a program without losing program steps or data. 
ORDER NO. HP29C I SHIPPING WT. 3 LBS. 
HP-19C: Same features as HP-29C but in the portable printer configuration of the HP-10. MARKLINE PRICE:$309.50 iRetail $345.00) 
ORDER NO. HP19C I SHIPPING WT. 4 LBS. 
Other Hewlett Packard Calculators 
HP  21  $69.95  HP  80  $254.50  
i~P  22  $109.95  HP  67  $387.95  
HP  25  $109.95  HP  92  $562.50  
HP  25C  $144.50  HP  97  $645.00  
HP  27  $149.95  HP  10  $154.95  



MARKLINE ACCEPTS MASTERCHARGE
•

CALL OUR 24 HOUR ORDER LINE 1-800-225-8493 
~­
op1n1on 
Foreign Study 
Editor's  Note:  Because  of  the  
volume  of mall  received  on  the  
foreign  study  program,  we  are  

printing exerpts from representa­tive letters. 
As a former participant in the University's Foreign Study Pro­gram in Mexico, I was · quite shocked to read in the 9/15 edition of The Observer that there are students who returned from abroad dissatisfied in their year of studies in a foreign culture. I wish to present both sides of the question which Ms. Rafferty failed to do, spending most of the available space recording complaints about the academic life abroad. 
One must first remember that the Foreign Study Programs entail just that --studying in a foreign culture under a different system with different values and goals. When one agrees to go abroad, one also agrees that he or she will attempt to assimilate the lifestyle and the language of the country he or she has chosen. 
In the United States, and es­pecially at Notre Dame, the em­phasis on academics is much greater than in other countries, say Austria or China. The idea is not to isolate oneself amid textbooks, theories, and equations, but rather experience life firsthand at the same time one is reading about it. 
A quote appeared in Ms. Raf­ferty's report stating there was little work given. The goal of Notre Dame's year abroad programs is not to spend a year in Japan emulating what one would b~ doing on a typical school night in South Bend, but experienceing a toally new and foreign culture, thereby gaining a perspective on that culture and on one's own lifestyle. If homework, research papers, and nights of endless study are what one is seeking, then one should remain at Notre Dame where those characeristics are in abundance. I can recall the remarks of Dr. Charles Parnell, Director of the Foreign Study Programs, during my freshman year to the group of students about to go to Mexico (and I'm sure they were used with the 
DOONESBURY 
SO /JERR& 1J.E JU'1P 7lJ ANY CIJ'IatJSIONS, lET 115 ASI( aJR­SCL.Ves: CWIJ) /R. KISSINGeRtHAve HAO A 6000 REASON rat!.. ~ NaT OISaOSING UJHilT HE KNEW • A801JT 7He J::lJREAN SCANI:¥1/. IN
f/72r ...._ 
~RY 6al?, HR. ff3RKINS, ~ GaXJ! I t:ETeCTA MATlJ/l.AT&/ IN '1aR THINK­
ING 7HAT £SCI',PelJ 7l{e 
NOTICE Of 7HIS CLA5s t.A5T SPI?/N!!i/ 
dave gill 

Innsbruck, Angers, Rome, Japan, and China groups as well) that if one was going to spend night after night restricted to one's room with one's books in hand, then he 
or  she  should  not  enter  the  
program.  
When  complaints  arise  con­ 

cerning the academics of the Foreign Study Programs, especi­ally from former participants, I am led to believe that the persons making these complaints are af­flicted with a disease which is very common to the Notre Dame cam­pus. Some call it G.P.A. paranoia. People seem to worry that another person may get a better grade and therefore a better grade point average. But does a grade or an average of a person's grades make that individual? Or is it what that individual has learned and is able to apply to his or her life to make him or her a better person? A quote from a favorite book of min, 
Semi-Tough, by Dan Jenkins, makes a very valid point about this disease: "Remember, boys, there are a least eight hundred million Chinese who will never give a damn what we do." 
Professor Walter Langford, a retired professor from Notre Dame who initiated the Peace Corps in Latin America upon the request of John Kennedy and who started the Notre Dame Foreign Study Pro­gram in Mexico, has told me and countless other individuals the three goals of a year abroad: (1) to become bi-cultural; (2) to become bilingual; and lastly, (3) the academic life. 
The opinions in Ms. Rafferty's article are in a definite minority. I have yet tq talk to anyone from any program who was disappointed in his or her year abroad and I have been associating with participants from all of the programs since this semester began. Granted, the academic life abroad is not as strenuous as it is here, but there is so much more to learn that one cannot obtain from any book. When was the last time you stopped to talk to a vineyard owner in France, a flower vendor in Mexico City, or an old Austrian on a ski lift? This is the learning experience abroad, not taking notes in a biology or history class. 
by Garry Trudeau 
MR.I<NOII/I.£[)6E/ .5()(RCE, SIR? COIJW ff 8£ 7HiiT ~. K15S!N6£R. /d),NTEIJ 7lJ /MJ/0 /IIITJI6(JJIZJN6 SCOUL. BUAIJSC I«1?EAN 7!liXPS IJ£RE AT 7HAT T/M£3 FK3HTING IN 
5(J(ffH VIeTNAM? 
/ 
/lieU, I RCAO A /..tJT fFSC/ENCE 
RCfi(JITHIS 
SUMME/l., 
/SIR.. 


In Manila on Oct. 26, 1976, the Filipino Government arrested Apolonia Buenaventura. Senorita Buenaventura's arrest occurred within a week of her participation in a national referendum concern­ing President Marcos' State of Martial Law. The Marcos Regime r never disclosed a reason for Senorita IBuenaventura's arrest, nor did it formally charge her with any criminal action. 
Despite the lack of formal charges, Senorita Buenaventura remained in detention for over seven months. During these months she was helpless against the arbitrary power of the Marcos Regime. According to govern­ment policy during the State of Martial Law, all writs of habeas corpus filed on her behalf were denied. While a prisoner, Senorita Buenaventura received an im­
proper diet, was detained in aeticient and degrading prison facilities, and was repeatedly tortured. 
In South Bend on March 1, 1977, a group of concerned individuuals consisting of Notre Dame students and faculty, and of members C'f the University and of the South Bend communities at large, began writing letters on Senorita Buenaventura's behaU. The group directed its letters to President Marcos, to high-ranking Filipino government officials and to Filipino Embassy officials. The group's goal: Senorita Buenaven­tura's release from prison. 
With its letters, the group demonstrated to the Marcos Regime that international atten­tion had been drawn to Senorita Buenaventura's detention and mistreatment. It also put forth legal and hutmanitarian arguments for her release. 
In Manila early in the summer of 1977, after many letters on her behalf, Senorita Buenaventura was released from prison. To her family and friends, as well as to herself, her release came as a surprise. The release of Senorita Buenaventura is, of course, not entirely attributable to the activity on her behaU by the Notre Dame-South Bend group. How­ever, through its letters the group was able to bring considerable pressure to bear on the unlawful and inhumane activities of the Marcos Regime. 
The case of Apolonia Buenaven­tura is not unique . There are countless other men and women in the world today who are imprisoned, tortured or even 
executed ·because their opin­ions or religiOns are unacceptable to their governments. Moreover, the number of political prisoners continues to increase. The concerned individual feels power­less in the face of such wide-spread repression. However, as the group from Notre Dame-South Bend vividly illustrates, the possibility does exist for con­cerned individuals to play an important and an effective role in securing freedom for political prisoners throughout the world. 
One particular world-wide hu­man rights movement through which concerned individuals can play an important and effective role on the behalf· of political prisoners is Amnesty Internation­al. Amnesty International (AI) is independent of any government, political faetion, ideology, econom­ic interest or religious creed. AI continually works for the release of "prisoners of conscience" --men and women imprisoned anywhere for their beliefs, color, ethnic origin or religion --provided they have tl eithel';used nor advocated violence. In short, AI seeks the observance throughout the world of the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Ri~hts and the UN Standard Minimum Rules for the Treatment 01 t'risoners. 
As of May 31, 1976, AI had over 1500 groups in over 30 countries working on the behalf of over 3800 prisoners ot conscience. uuring the year 1975-76 AI helped secure the release of 1600 of those prisoners. 
The concerned individuals from Notre Dame and South Bend who diligently worked for Apolonia Buenaventura's freedom are all members of Amnesty Internation­al. They, along with a number of other members of the Notre Dame-South Bend communities, form USA Group 43 of Amnesty International. Presently, the Group is working on the behalf of two other prisoners of conscience: one in Rhodesia and one in Cameroun. Also, the Group assists AI in any of its broader campaigns, such as the campaign for the over 1500 disappeared political orisoners of Chile. 

As the role of AI increases in every c~rner of the globe, AI's need for a larger and an ever more concerned membership also in­creases. Those interested in directly aiding or morally supporting AI in its world-wide humanitarian efforts are encouraged to attend the first meeting on Oct. 3 at 4:15 p.m. in 337 O'Shauughnessy. 
The logo of Amnesty inter­national consists of a burning 
candle  wrapped  in  a  length  of  
barbed  wire.  To  hundreds  of  
thousands  of  men  and  women  

politically imprisoned, AI is the candle of hope, burning in a constant vigil. Help it burn brighter and longer. 
·' 


*The Observer 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary'., 
The Ob!;erver is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters are the views of their autho:·s. Column space is available to all members of the community, and letters are encouraged to promote the free expression of varying opinions on campus. 
Box QBusiness Manager Sue Quigley Notre Dame

Advertising Manager Steve Bonomo Production Manager Karen Chiames Ind. 46556 
EDITORIAL BOARD 
Marti Hogan Martha Fanning Bob Brink Kathy Mills Maureen Flynn Barb Breitenstein jean Powley Katie Kerwin Barb LanghenryPaul Stevenson Pat Cole David O'Keefe 
Editor-in-Chief Managing Editor Asst. Managing Ed. Executive Editor Editorial Editor Exec. News Editor St. Mary's Editor News Editor 
News Editor Sports Editor Special Projects Ed. Features Editor 
Thursday, September 22, 1977 

Photo Editor Leo Hansen Copy Editor Joan Fremeau 


Catholic Faith Dusty 
~~~~paul barickmann 
In his article "The Failu~e of existence. To struggle wifh the Notre Dame," David Cwik criti-exigencies of being human and cized the University study of dedicate one's self to a personal Kant, Hume, Descartes, Sartre, truth that dispels the fallacies and Camus, Beckett, et alia because lies --therein lies the real such philosophers promote skepti-encounter of philosophy and life. cism and refuse to hand us the ijut Mr. Cwik · desires the 
objective Christian truths Mr. "Christian system," and seemingly Cwik sees as so vital to learning forgets that great philosophy the "why" of living. This is an means the ordeal of truth, not obvious perversion of the dignity simply the belief in a system. of the word, "truuth." I must It is not necessary here to say suggest that, if one intends to how absurd it would be, if not limit the pursuit of truth to the felonious, to subject the study of confines of the Catholic faith, he philosophy and literature to the confines himself to the icons of narrow limits of Mr. Cwik's Sacred Heart Church. And press Christian framework. If he is so his ears hard to listen as the dust terribly distraught over the falls! But I beg him to keep his "abandonment of objective
P.O.BOXQ~ 
intellectual vacuum out of the truths," I must now suggest such classroom! emotion arises out of confusion Mr. Cwik glibly states that our and the nascent awareness that
'Family' 

ted as such, should not be taken to
Freshmen -don't miss the times are "sUffering from disil-values cannot last when they are 
mean sexual intercourse. Making
chance to have the Alps outside lusionment and alienation precise-assigned to noble "frameworks."
love can simply mean generating a
your bedroom window. ly because we do not properly If he desires to vainly preserveeducation feeling of lave among one's fellow understand the reason for our pretty truths, he does so in
human bdngs. Ms. Fremeau
James C. Martin existence." This is pathetically ignorance. Disillusionment and
should realize this and accept it 
wrong: the Christian truths which skepticism are but necessary ...I propose a challenge to those before she condemns others. 
Mr. Cwik wishes to infuse into stages to the possession of truths who complain of the lax academic Also, in 1regard to Mr. Gregoire's philosophy have long since col-severely tested and honestlystructure in lnnsbruck. That is, to letter (of 1the same date) stating; lapsed from the weight of their portrayed in the most forceful and 
ND spirit

convince me that in my year in "Emphsis ... should be placed on own inconsistencies. And the demanding of worlds --that is,lnnsbruck I did not acquire the our daily waste rather than the great minds, from Kant to Reality and the drama and absolute best education available to infrequent horseplay of an aroused Camus, have sought to elucidate emergency of our very human any student. Namely, one of wasted student body." As a student the crisis of modern man as he existence. But Mr. Cwik cannot developing myself to extents that worker in 1the South Dining Hall, I bravely stands in the awareness reach any conclusions with the are not available at ND. Being able realize that the staff and student that human existence is forever philosophies of skepticism and to live with an Austrian family and workers have, for some time, divorced from the comfort of materialism. I feel this to be their stressed the senseless daily waste
communicate with them in Dear Editor: "objective truths." To anyone who because the truths, if honestly
native tongue is a much more The energy and spirit at Notre of food by the student body. Mr. 
has the audacity to say: "The aims admitted, are too harsh and gratifying experience for me than a Gregoire has obviously never had
Dame is kinetic. The food fights in of every course should be directed disappointing.
4.0 could ever be.... to scrub the tables and chairs, or
both the north and south dining by a Christian philosophy of life," I "True ideas-about man's exis­
that push a broom full of wasted food ever hopes
halls last weekend prove a must answer, "Please pursue your tence" --if one to 
Martha Dwyer group of strong willed peeple can and broken glasses and dishes after 
absolute truths in prayer, but aspire to such things, thoughtClass of '78 waste enough food to feed over a one of the student body's "ingre­kindly keep such naivete out · of must pass through contradiction
quent" displays of "horseplay".
thousand people. If they direct this philosophy and scholarship!" and antithesis. If one hopes to
He has never seen a student who
energy to those in need, this same But like Menon, Mr. Cwik asks retain "objective truths" in thatNature group can strengthen the society suffered severe injuries from bro­to be taught those values and Chrisitan system, then he must as well as chailenge peer groups to ken glass or a thrown. He also has truths which might lend his life resign himself to an ever-restrict­
never been inthe kitchen when the 
follow. meaning. If Mr. Cwik rightly ing world, growing more fright­
student workers have to deal withof learning In my four years at Notre Dame, understood Existentialism, he ened of harsh reality. Mr. Cwik 
I see the effect the volunteer the mad rush to 'escape the dining feels we "condemn"
would know Sartre and Camus do should services have on the students. hall before disciplinary measures not exclude all values; rather, they Existentialism. Do so, I say, butdiffers Those who work with the retarded can be taken', the number of trays profess the most profound. That also deny the hard reality of the
and dirty dishes is appalling imme­
at Logan Center, tutor the neigh­is, when men find the old 20th Century and modern experi­
...I do not intend to refute the diately after a food fight.
borhood children, act as Big Bro­constructs without truth, they · ence. If one longs for "absolutefact that some of the courses in the 
thers/Big Sisters, give time and Admittedly, during my freshmen have the austere and grave truths," make up a list. If onelnnsbruck Program might not be work in a CILA summer project, or year, I thought food fights were responsibility to exercise their expects definition, then turn away
very challenging; That is not the 'fun', 'exdting', and an 'expres­
collect donations for the Hunger freedom in order to attain a more from reality and fall upon
point of the program. What must sion of Notre Dame spirit'. After
Coalition make the entire student uniquely human meaning for "frameworks" and "systems."
be understood is that the key body aware of the needs of the seeing the: destruction, mess and difference between a year in lnns­community as well as Third World injuries resulting from such"horse­bruck and a year on campus is the countries. Getting involved with play" -I have realized that such Christian faith can stand up to nature of the learning experience. "infrequent displays" should not Cwik 
·the scrutiny of rational investiga­these groups and the many other 
The ND learning experience is tion and acquit itself. Mr. Cwik, on
groups of Volunteer SErvices deve­be allowed and disciplinary mea­
centered in the classroom, while in the contrary, implies that unless
lops a well-rounded person as he sures should be taken towards 
lnnsbruck it is centered in the who inlearns to give of himself, to share anyone participates any confused each lectuure and each separate 
receives "nihil

entire living situation .... his ideas where they make a aspect of a food fight -whether it curriculnm a 
Dear Editor: obstat," tudent : will "be indifference. be instigating, participating in, or danger of loss of faith. Is this not aThere is still time to get involv­even passively viewing such an May I have leave to point out demeaning of the intelligence ofed. Surely the foremost Catholic occurence without protest. 
MarkBemo the irony of David Cwik's attack the student body? Or does Mr.
University in the nation could 
lnnsbruck '75-'76 on the teaching of Existentialism Cwik suppose that the 11th
afford to show concern towards the Maureen C. McShan and other philosophies at Notre commandment is, "Think not lestneedy and the less fortunate. I Dame in his article, !'The :Failure, thou be confounded"? 
urge those presently involved with of Notre Dame." He condemns theValue an organization to challenge a Pri'orities University for not takiJ:ig seriously Louis P. Pojmanfriend, and to all the others -accept the question of the reason forthe challenge. 
existence and then condemns it for
inestimable mixed?
Maureen O'Neill teaching Existentialism, the phil­

Apology

osophy centered around the ...To overestimate the value of a Dear Editor: 
question of the reason for year abroad is impossible. The This past Tuesday night our existence. Mr. Cwik seems ill­central location of lnnsbruck on the Forms of I0 v e. housemate' s car was broken into 
informed on several counts. In his On behalf of the employees of 
European map and the more than with a baseball bat outside Bridget dismay at the fact that th ' works the North Dining Hall, I would like adequate vacation periods offer McQuire's. It disturbs us that an of Descartes, Kant, ICamus, to apologize to those students who 
almost unlimited opportunities for incident of this kind was able to Freud, Marx, Beckett and com­
did not receive their steaks. 
pany are read in classes, hetravel -an ongoing lesson in occur in such a "well-patrolled" I walked out to one of the foodDear Editor:
history, culture, and international area. This misfortune might not wrongly labels Kant an 'agnostic' lines and was yelled at by a relations (plus it's a lot of fun). have taken place if the South Bend and Locke a 'positivist.' Does Mr. 
student, "Where in the --­
In regard to Ms. Fremeau's Cwik not realize that both these
Secondly, and partially encompas­Police Dept. ~d set its priorities in are the steaks?" His face was
letter (Sept. 16, 1977) concerning philosophers, as well as Descartes, 
sing the first, is the experience in the right vein. Instead of having its angered and at the point of physical 
the poster "Make Love Not Gar­thought of themselves as Chris­__::­
self-reliance that the year affords. patrolmen roaming through college attack. I tried to explain that thebage" in the South Dining Hall;
Parental and parietal supervision bars or lounging at its entrances tians?· Doesn't Mr. Cwik realize cooks, Iinewomen and student 
are a world away; when tra\elling love exists in many forms and its (sometime:s six at a time), waiting there are Christian Existentia-workers are not blame. We just
expression in numerous others -lists? ·
in Turkey or Morocco even the to arrest 01r hassle underage college follow orders. We are told how
whether it be a simple greeting on George Bernard Shaw once said
Innsbruck base is inconceivably students and Gust as often) rapping much to produce, how to produce it distant. Common sense becomes the quad, the hug to comfort a with the chicks, we· propose that that a Catholic university was a serve it, etc. We do our best. 
more friend, or a goodnight kiss to one's contradiction in terms. Shaw and
an increasingly important the P.D. direct its energy toward We do not like being yelled at,faculty both in town and on the boyfriend.•l feel Md. Fremeau's the real crime that exists in South Mr. Cwik are of one accord in this 
it's not our fault. If you have any
interpretation of the poster is not thesis, and both are wrong. A
road. A somewhat neglected Bend. 
complaints or grievances use your
only a reflection of her own university is a place where
advantage is the language. What I Sincerely, feed-back cards. I only wish tolearned in five years of German on personal bias towards the phrase PaniWhlte knowledge-claims are subjected to apologize for being part of a meal
'make love' but also to the idea of the bar of reason. Itwould seem ~
the high school and college is TimGorie that upset you so.
'love' in general. Love does not me that a Catholic or Christian
dwarfed by the magnitude of what I John Noell
Thursday, September 22, 1977
the observer 

''Bubble Boy'' turns six 
HOUSTON (AP] -David, the "Bubble Boy", observed his sixth birthday yesterday at. home in his plastic isolator, with a special germ-free cake, but without the miniature spacesuit that is de­signed to expand his world. 
Doctors had hoped David would have been able to try out the suit before his birthday, but a minor hitch postponed any trials of the garment which would permit him to explore outdoor areas such as woods and beaches. 
David is a victim of severe, combined immune deficiency, which robs the body of its germ­fighting abilities. He was delivered in a germ-free area six years ago and place immeriately in a sterile "bubble unit". He has never been touched by ungloved hands. 
Last December, physicians re­ported on immunological changes that eventually may mean David is outgrowing the defect. 
Yesterday, a spokesman at Bay-

T·G·I·F· Drafts Friday 3-7 


lor College of Medicine and Texas Children's Hospital said, "We have nothing new to report at this time. We had hoped David would have tried out the spacesuit before this birthday, but there were minor problems and it was returned to the Johnson Space Center for rework­ing." 
Birthday plans included, as they have in the past, a quiet family get-together and a so-called sterile cake", specially prepared, as is all David's foods, to be germ free. 
Despite his handicap, the boy ' reads extremely well, has a fantas­tic vocabulary and is curious and inquisitive about the world around him. 
The hospital spokesman said it was hoped that David can start making short tests with the child­size astronaut suit in October. The first of three suits was delivered some weeks ago, but doctors found it unacceptable because of a defect in the container used in moving it from the space center to the hospital. 
After the spacesuit is tested at the hospital, doctors believe David will be able to spend up to fours at a time in the rubberized garment which has a soft transparent plastic helmet. A ten-foot hose connects the suit to a ventilator mounted on a pushcart. 
David alternately spends six weeks at the hospital and six weeks with his parents and nine-year old sister, Katherine, in their ranch­style home about 45 minutes from 
the hospital. He is scheduled to 
of the actiton. They would prefer that the administration ask Con­gress to formally consider extend­

:----cLUBS-AND____:
ing the 1972 treaty, thus maintain­ing the contitutional partnership in treaties while also giving Congress an improved chance of influencing

I ORGANIZATIONS Ithe ongoing negotiations. The arms control law requires
IApplications for considerations in I 
t this year's Student Government 1IBudget can be picked up now in t t t 
1 the Treasurer's Office I 
t Second floor t t La Fortune Student Center 
I 
I Deadline for completion I 
t 

t is Wed. Sept. 28 I 
L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
return to the hospital early next month.
His parents have asked that their 
last name and address not be :;:; reported. His mother said "anony-:;:; mity is our best hope f?f leading ~~~~EDITOR'S NOTE: Thousands 
reaso~a~ly. no~al hv~s. · . 

Davids tnhented d1sorder ktlled an older brother a~ seven m~nths. D~tors say t~e dtsease affhcts an ~st1mated onem ev~ry 10,000 male mfants. Female tnfants are not 
affected. 

Propose informal ex1tension of 
JOIN OUR PLANT CLUB 'NOW!! 
*Special offers twice a month 
*Free plant *Fantastic savings 
example s~ plant for only s2 
*Only s1 membership fee *No obligation 

=:-~
BANKAMf:IICARD 
•1RC2 

53600 N. Ironwood , South Bend PHONE 272-8820 
Open Mon thru Sat 9:00 to 6:00 Open Sunday 12:00 to 5:00 

i"''"''"''''""'""''''''''''"'"'''"'""'@''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''"''"'''''''''''''''''''''''''·='''''''''''''''='='='='='='='='='=======::: 
~r.=~.:~!.=. • Americans meet .=~·:.:.:!~::
.: M 
=·:· 

In OSCOW theater ::::
:~:~ 
:;:;of Americans came to the ;:;:Soviet Union in the 1920's and ;~;~1930's to help the then strug­:;:; gling Communist nation or to :;:;escape the Depression at ;:;:home. Many later left, but 
;~;~many also stayed on. Here Is a :;:;report on the dwindling few :;:;who are still Uving in the :;:;Soviet Union. :;:; 
:~; 

:;:;MOSCOW (AP] -At 12:30 p.m.
CUrre1nt armS pact f every Thursday, a small group of and disappeared in the 1937 purges~;~: 
WASHIN~liTON [AP] -Carter administration officials, with little hope of an immediate break­through in strategic arms talks with the Russians, are considering a plan to ke,ep the current treaty in effect informally and thus avoid a congressional debate over ratifica­tion. 
The proposed plan calls for both sides to simply pledge to live up to the current treaty after it expires Oct. 3. This would keep the ceiling imposed by the 1972 pact on the two superpowers' land-based and submarine-launched intercon­tinental b2Lllistic missiles. 
Several key members of Con­gress have expressed misgivings about such an arrangement because it could cut Congress out 
Congress to pass on "any action" that would place limits on U.S. 
armaments.  The  question  is  
whether  continuing  a  five-year  
agreement  amounts  to  imposing  

weapons limits in a legal sense. 
The key members have warned that if an informal 'pact is signed, they might hold hearings on U.S. military strategy, which could pro­duce a public debate on relative 
U.S. 
and Soviet strength that the administration would like to avoid. 

The congressional forces have been informed that Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance's talks today and tomoJTow with Soviet Foreign Minister Andrei Gromyko are not likely to st~ttle differences over U.S. cruise mis.siles, the Soviet Backfire bomber and other obstacles to a new treaty. The Soviets want to restrict the cruise misile and the 

U.S. 
wants to limit long-range use of the Ba<:kfire bomber. 



{ 
:;:: 
:;:; after the Soviet Union got on its{ feet and as the purges of the late;;:; dictator Josef Stalin in the 1930's~;: began to threaten their safety. But;~;~ some of them stayed and are still:;:; here today. :;:; 
One of the Americans who;:;: frequents the Moscow movie house:~;~ is Abe Stolar, a 66-year old Jew,:;:; who came in 1931 when his father,:::; an editor and printer, moved the;;:; family from Chicago. The elder:;:; Stolar was managing editor of the:;;: English language "Moscow News":;:; 
{elderly men and women gathers at his son says. ;:;: :;:;a Moscow movie theater. Afterward the son worked as a:;:; } Everything about them looks Russian-to-English translator. He} :;:; Russian-their clothes, their shoes, and his wife both live on pensions. :;:; } their Russian newspapers. Now Stolar wants to leave the } ;:;: But as they file inside for a Soviet Union and go to Israel. ;:;: / weekly showing of ancient Ameri-But he has found that the Soviet ;:;: ;:;: can films they quietly chat with Union does not recognize his ;:;: ;:;: each other, not in Russian but in American citizenship any more. ;:;: ;:;: American English. Soviet authorities also claim his ;:;: { The films, too, are of another Russian wife, Gita, once did secret ;:;: { time and place -some of them chemical work and therefore is ;~:: ;:;:made in the 1930's and 1940's and ineligible to leave. ;:;: ;:;: rumored to have been seized from Stolar, his wife and 16-year old;:;: :~:: the Germans during World War II. son received exit permission once { :;:; They also attract young Soviet in 1975 but were seized just steps :;:;r language students. away from their airpl.ane and told) ;:;: The group of 15 to 20 elderly they would have to watt at least.two;:;: ;:;: persons may be all that remains in more years. N.ow. they ha.ve no Idea) :;:; Moscow ofthe thousands of Ameri-when permlsston Will come:;:;? cans who immigrated to the Soviet through, despite pressure from the f :;:;Union in the 1920's and 1930's. U.S. government. :;:: :;:; Some were Communists who came Other Americans seem happy:;:; ~;~; to help Soviet Russia. Others had here and have been officially~;:: ;:;: no interest in politic but wanted an praised for their contributions to;;;: ;:;:escape from joblessness and the the Soviet Union. They have lived;;;: ;:;:American Depression. not only in Moscow, but all around;:;: ;:;: The vast majority went home the Soviet Union. } 
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:· 
Rape prevention film viewed 
The Women's Rights Association will show an hour long film, "How to Say 'No' to a Rapist and Survive," at 12:15 p.m. on Septem­ber 26 in room 115 of the Law Building. The film is the first in a series of lunch-hour movies dealing with subjects of concern to women and thewomen's rights movement. Admission is free. 
Monday's film is produced by the National Organization for the Prevention of Rape and Assault. The film was shown to female undergraduate students at orien­tation and details defense tech­niques. The Women's Rights Association is showing it primarily to give graduate students and those who missed it, an opportunity to see the film. 

A follow-up discussion on cam­pus security and an organization meeting for the Students for Cam­pus Security will be held the following evening, September 27, at 7 p.m. in the Law School Lounge. 
Additional information about the meeting may be obtained from Paula Fulks at 283-7372. 
Black StudiesProgram to sponsor film talk 
Donald Hogle, tormer stan wrtter for Ebony magazine and author of "Toms, Coons, Mulattoes, Mam­mies and Bucks," will speak to­night at 7:30 p.m. in the Memorial Library Auditorium. The talk is sponsored by the Black Studies Program and is open to the public. 
Bogle, story editor for Otto Preminger, graduated from Lincoln University and did advanced study at Indiana University, Harvard and Columbia. His book won the Theater Library Association Award 

His campus lectures taKe a close look at the stereotypes black actors have always been forced to portray in the film industry. Bogle describes the manner in which Paul Robeson, Stepin Fetchit, Roches­ter, Hattie McDaniel and others triumphed over their narrow roles and were able to make a personal statement. His discussions also focus on contemporary performers such as Cicely Tyson, Jim Brown, Sidney Poitier, Diana Ross, Pam Greer and Billy Dee Williams. 
••  •  
• •e  Special  10% Discount  • ••e  
:  On All Merchandise To Notre Dame  :  

for the best film book of the year. 

• & Saint Mary's Students. e 

CIA reveals possible covert drug attack 
WASHINGTON [AP] -The CIA Gottlieb's unexpected disclosure once investigated the possibility came as he tried to justify the CIA's that a covert drug attack was own 21-year long series of experi­launched against members of then ments with mind-altering and other 
President Richard M. Nixon's tra­drugs.
veling party inside an unidentified He said that on at least two "potentially hostile country," a occasions he and an . associate Senate panel was told yesterday. briefed the "physician of the then 
Dr. Sidney Gottlieb, the CIA's President of the United States on former science chief, said the the inherent dangers and alerted President's physician and some of them as to whatto look for should a 
his associates reported a series of covert drug attack against the bizarre and unusual symptoms, President be made." including "inappropriate tears and Gottlieb said when the physician crying." returned from a trip with the 
"My recollection is that it cer­President to a country that Gottlieb tainly did not include the Pre­said is a potential adversary to the sident,'' Gottlieb told a Senate United States, he "reported some health subcommittee. unusual feelings he and several 
Americans oppose Panama Ca~al treaty 
W ASIDNGTON [AP] -By an 
overwhelming margin, the Ameri­
can people oppose the treaty that 
would relinquish U.S. control over 
the Panama Canal, an Associated 
Press public opinion poll shows. 
The poll found SO percent of 
those surveyed said they opposed 
Senate ratification of the treaty. 
Only 29 percent favored the pact, 
while about 21 percent expressed 
no opinion. 
The opposition cut across region­
al, party, educational, age and 
income lines. 
It was the first nationwide survey 
conducted since Preseident Jimmy 
Carter and Panamanian leader 
Gen. Omar Torrijos signed the 
treaty on Sept. 7 with great fanfare. 
Despite Carter's efforts to drum 
up support for the pact, the poll 
showed he has been unable to 
convince a majority of his own 
Democratic party or the residents 
of his home region, the South, to 
back the treaty. 
These findings of widespread opposition are similar to the figures from other polls. 
The Senate is not expected to debate the treaty until next year, giving Carter at least several months to work on public opinion. The President has said he thinks support for the treaty is mounting. 
The poll was based on telephone 
interviews with 1,548 adults, con­
ducted Monday for the AP by 
Chilton Research Services of 
Radnor, PA. 
Democrats opposed the treaty by 
a margin of 44 percent to 34 
percent. That was the most 
support for the treaty among any 
party. 
Republicans opposed the pact by 
61 to 26 percent, and independents 
by 54 to 25. 
Support for the treaty was strongest among those aged 19-29 and weakest among those over 60. About 35 percent of the young adultsbackedthe pact, while only 20 percent of those over 60 supported ratification. 
By regions, support for the treaty was strongest in the East, where 34 percent favored ratification, 48 percent were opposed and 18 percent had no opinion. 
In the South, 49 percent opposed the treaty, with only 26 percent favoring it and 25 percent undecid­ed. 
Organ bench· stolen 
The St. Mary's Regina Chapel organ bench was stolen early this month. Dean of Student Affairs Kathleen Rice is appealing to the St. Mary's campus for its return, emphasizing that she is not assum­ing that the person responsible is a student. 
Rice wrote a letter to the Regina residents on Sept. 7 stating that she expected the person respons­ible to return the hand-carved German bench which belongs to the Sisters of the Holy Cross. Anyone with any information con­cerning the whereabouts of the bench should contact the Student Affairs Office. 
In both the Midwest and West, 52 percent opposed the treaty. In the Midwest 28 percent favored it and 20 percent were undecided; in the West supporters numbered 29 percent with 19 percent undecided. 
Some 36 percent of those with incomes over $25,000 a year sup­ported the treaty, the highest level of any income group. There were no other major variations in atti­tudes among income groups. 
COLLEGIATE JAZZ FESTJVAL WORKERS 
Qrganizational Meeting 
Tonight 9:00 pm Lafortune Auditorium 
other members of the party had had." 
. "Are you suggesting that the presidential party was drugged?" asked Sen. Edward M. Kennedy, D-Mass., who said the alleged incident has ''extraordinarily grave implications." 
"I'm suggesting they wanted us to review and determine whether that might have happened," Gott­lieb replied. He said he believes the incident occured in "approxi­mately 1971" and, as far as memory serves, the CIA "could not unequivocally conclude that the behavior was due to some covert drug." 
In the early 1970's, Nixon's physician was Dr. Walter Tkach. 
According to records of the White House transportation office, however, Nixon did not travel in 1971 to any countries that were considered unfriendly. 
He went to the Azores to meet with French President Georges Pompidou and to Bermuda for a meeting with the British prime minister. 
Otherwise, the records showed that Nixon left the continental United States only for brief week­end trips to friend Robert Abpla­nalp's home in the Bahamas and to the Virgin Islands for a weekend stay. 
Gottlieb also said he has seen the log of the CIA's counter-intelli­gence unit which documents more than 20 covert drug attacks by foreign agents against the diploma­tic and military attaches of the United States and other countries. 
He said that as far as he knows, LSD and other mind-altering drugs were not used because the purpose was to incapacitate the target official temporarily to steal docu­ments. 
He said such attacks were conti­nuing up until the time he left the agency in 1973. 
Ken~edy's subcommittee is pro­
bing the extent of the CIA's drug·-----·--------. 
experiments on witting and unwit­ting human subjects. 
CIA Director Stansfield Turner, who preceded Gottlieb in testify­ing, said the spy agency has voluntarily turned over more than eight linear feet of documents concerning the tests and does not now know of any others. 
But he acknowledged that many of the CIA's files have been destroyed and that others are confused and fragmented. 
The CIA director said that while he knows of no other documenta­tion, he cannot state that some might not turn up eventually. He 
said he has no information to substantiate testimony of some 
earlier witnesses that some CIA reports on the programs may have been falsified. 
open Fr~. & Sat. till 
Midnight :LIQUOR 
1 ~0R\.0
Pabst $549 
case 
Old Chicago 
$149 
6 packs 
Schlitz 
$f69 
6 pack 

Rum$498 
Qt 

ScotchS539 
qt 

VodkaS399
Miscellaneous· qt 
Cases of Beer 
Gin $419 
sass 

2128 South Bend Ave. -----------· ., . -~
----~ 

Gottlieb testified that before he retired he sought and received permission from then CIA Director Richard Helms to destroy much of the research records of the highly secret test which bore the code names MK-DELTA, MK-ULTRA, MK-NAOMI, MK-SEARCH, MK-CHICKWIT and MK-OFTEN. 
.Gottlieb said he wanted them destroyed primarily to protect the reputations and careers of dozens of permanent scientists who worked on the process and whose names were included in the files. 
need posters in a hurry? 

I 
• • 1
•nsly·prints , 
the wiz of the printingbiz! 
1OO _ x17 posters
11 
Only $10.00 
\.OCICs~ 


Thursday, September 22, 19n
10 the observer 
Lance resignation neces!•ary 
[continued from page 1) 
Moments after the news con­feremce, Sen. James B. Allen, D-Ata., took the Senate floor and denounced the news media for "going after Bert Lance's scalp ... Well, they've gotten his scalp. But there's a serious question whether the best interests of this govern­ment have been served." 
Sen. Barry Goldwater, R-Ariz., said he thought the budget direc­tor's resignation was necessary, but added, "there's not a man or woman in this country who could stand the kind of scrutiny that Lance was subjected to." 
Rep. Henry Reuss, D-Wis., chairman of the House Banking Committee, said Lance "has done the right thing ... In an administra­tion that prides itself on the highest standards, there wasn't anything else to do." 
Carter said he hadn't yet con­sidered who might succeed Lance. But he made it clear that he doesn't expect the next budget director to have the same close relationship he and Lance enjoyed. 
He noted that going back to his days as governor of Georgia "there has been a special relationship between me and Bert Lance. 
Lance headed Georgia's trans­portation department during Car­ter's term as governor of Georgia. 
Lance, in his 350 word letter of resignation, said: ''It was and is · important that my name and repu­tation be cleared for me, my wife, children, grandchildren, and those that have trust and faith in me. I believe that this has been done. 

''As I said at the Senate hearings my conscience is clear. Second, it was and is important for me to be able to say that people should be willing to make the necessary sacrifices and be willing to serve their government and country," Lance went on. "This I can still say, and say proudly." 
''Third, I believe in the absolute need for government to be able to attract good people from the pri­vate sector. We must find ways to encourage these people." 
Lance added: 

"I hope the American people feel that during my eight months in office I have met well my respon­sibilities and performed well my tasks. This has been an important aspect of the entire matter. 
"However, I have to ask the question at what price do I remain? My only intention in coming to Washington in the first place was to make a contribution to this country and to you." 
. An informant said Carter de­layed his news conference for two hours so Lance could meet with his attorney, Clark Clifford, to work on the resignation statement. 
SMC sponsors drive for United Way campaign 

by Joan Grabowski 

The United Way campaign,an 
annual fund-raising event at St. 
Mary's, is aimed at collecting 
student donations for the St. Jo­
seph County United Way Fund. 
United Way is a nation-wide 
organization, representing com­
munity service groups such as 
Hotline, the Family and Children's 
Center, Logan Center for the 
Retarded, and Catholic Social Ser­
vices in St. Joseph County. (United 
Way represents 34 such groups in 
this county.) 
The money that is raised each 
year is allocated to the 34 groups in 
proportion to need and a particular 
group's relation to United Way 
objectives. The money is used for 
operational expenses such as: sup­
plies, salaries, utility bills and 
training. 
United Way programs are bene­
ficial to students in providing many 
varied services and educational 
internship opportunities. All Uni­ted services are available to ND/ SMC students, as part-time resi­
dents of St. Joseph County. 
Students may take advantage of the 
above programs consisting of legal 
services, alcohol-abuse programs, 
cancer projects, the Easter Seal 
program, and various health and 
rehabilitative programs. 
United Way groups provide in­
ternship for many SMC psychology 
I 

and sociology majors, who often 
serve in counseling and supervi­
sory capacities. 
In the past, the St. Mary's campaign has been based on proceeds from a SMC sponsored auction. This, according to Julie Pelletiere, SMC Development Commiflsioner, is "a good idea, but it's too gimmicky." Thus, this year's campaign will operate on a door-to-door soliciting basis. Hall representatives are responsible for collecting a one dollar donation from each resident of her hall, while off campus students are urged to contribute at the front desk in the hall of their choice. The hall raising the largest amount of money per student will receive a plaque, which will travel from hall to hall each year. Any donations will be gratefully accepted, as St. Mary's three day campaign goal is $1,000. 
Jn response to this student fund-raising effort, Dr. John Duggan, President of Saint Mary's College, feels that an impressive characteristic of the St. Mary's student is her concern for the welfare of her fellow students as well as "an extended compassion to the South Bend community.'' Dug~an stated, "the campaign prov1des the student with an oppor­tunity to actively particpate in a special way to help the South Bend community.'' 
Organized labor structure subject to change · 
[continued from page 1] of the atomic age and ignorance of the political system as the factors that characterize America today. He warned that America wilt' not be able to grow unless it eliminates fear and provides equal opportuni­ties for education and wealth. "If we continue on the 'dooms­day' pattern in which we are heading, we are ir. for a rude awakening." However, he conclu­ded, "we can change through the virtue of a viable, strong and agressive labor movement." Sadlowski, last year at the age of 37, challenged the leadership of USWA in an unsuccessful bid for the presidency. Lloyd McBride 
won by a margin ofless than 80,000 
votes. 
He went to work in the South 

Chicago steel mills at 18, and at 25 
was elected president of his 10,000 
member local union. Three years 
ago he was named director of his 
USWA distict. 
Sadlowski was the first speaker in the annual CArdinal O'Hara Memorial Lecture series, in which noted leaders of business, labor and education are invited to the campus for a public talk and informal discussions with students and faculty. · 
Salvatore J. Bella, chairman and Professor of Management, is the director of the series, and intro-, duced·the· speaker. 
After Lance informed the Pre­sident at an early afternoon meet­ing that he would quit his post, it was learned that Clifford was not immediately available~ 
The infmmant said the delay in the news c:onference was decided on so Lan1:e would have time to locate Clifford, who was his counsel at last week's televised Senate hearings. 
Lance has been under investi­gation by the Senate and several 
Charter Flight UTH BEND toN at XMAS ROUND TRIP $92 DEPARTURE DEC. 22-10 PM RETURN JAN. 15-10 PM 


FULL PAYMENT BY CHECK OR MONEY ORDER WILL BE TAKEN IN LAFORTUNE LOBBY SEPT 21-28, 12-5 PM 

federal agencies, including the Justice Department, because irregularitit:s in his private busi­ness and banking affairs before he joined the Carter administration. Before the news conference, Carter and 1the Mr. and Mrs. Lance talked privately for 45 minutes during the early afternoon at the White House. "I'm not excited or upset;" Lance told reporters after leaving the Oval Office. While he was with Carter a policeman had tic­keted Lanct!'s car for a $5 parking violation. 

After theitr session with his boss, 

Lance walkt:d his wife back to their 
car, kissed her goodbye and went 
to his office in the Old Executive 
Office Buildling next door. 
The budget director said as recently as Tuesday that he did not intend to quit. Carter's new conference came as the Securities and Exchange Commission said it was in the "early stages" of its investigatio:n into Lance's activities as the head of the First National Bank of Calhoun, Ga., and National Bank of Georgia. 
The SEC denied a report that it was working on a civil fraud suit in the matter. 
Other probes are under way at the Internal Revenue Service and the Federal Elections Commission. Included in the FEC probe are overdrafts by the committee that ran Lance's campaign for governor of Georgia in1974. 
1·HE SPEED READING COURSE 
of Dr. Vearl ,JVIcBride world renowned educator and author will be presented in the South Bend area. There will be a series of FREE 1 hour lectures explaining the course,, dates of classes and tuition. Increase your reading speed with greatly increas.ed comprehension. 
This course is for: 

*BUSINESS PEOPLE *THE STUDENT 
*PROFESSIONAL PEOPLE *THE GIFTED CHILD 
*TECHNICAL READER *THE REMEDIAL READER 
*LOW COMPREHENSION READER *THE SLOW READER 
Dr. McBride's Panoramic Reading has been featured on national TV and radio with students reading over many thousand words a minute. These lectures are designed to inform you what Panoramic Reading can do for you. Panoramic Reading can save you hours a vveek at the same time increase your comprehension. learn to read 3.. 10 times faster, and a greater understanding of what you read. The fastest readers in the world are taught by McBride Method of Panoramic Reading. 
Attend one of the following special FREE one hour lectures at the following time and places 
Howard Johnson's Motel 
U.S. Hwy 31 North 

Mon. Sept. 19 Two meetings, one at 6:30p.m. and again at 8:30p.m. Tues. Sept.20 Two meetings, one at 6:30p.m. and again at 8:30p.m. Wed. Sept. 21 Two meetings, one at 6:30p.m. and again at 8:30p.m. TWO FINAL MEETINGS Thur. Sept. 22 Two meetings, one at 6:30p.m. and again at 8:30p.m. 
Presented by The National R•mdinq Enrichment Institute A Non-Profit Organization 
Attendance limited to 50 people 
.---------.--~~~----------~­
Thursda)l, September 22. 1977 .. -· , the observer 11 
Dining hall feedback encouraged 

Maureen Eyres 

Students have a direct line of communication with food service officials via the Feedback Boxes which are located at the exits of the North and South Dining Halls. If a student has a suggestion, compli­ment, or complaint about the dining hall, he is encouraged by Edmund Price, director of food service, to complete a blue feed­back card as he leaves the dining 
hall 

P~ice stated, "The main thing to do about a complaint is to commu­nicate it to someone who can do 
something about it. It doesn't help to complain to a fellow student.'' If it is in writing, Mr. Price promises that the comment will be consider­ed. 
The Feedback Box is checked daily by the food service officials in order to get students' reactions. Each comment card is reviewed by at least four personnel, including Price, Miss Roose, the dietician, and the dining hall 'Tlanagers, each 
Dining hall directors welcome student response through use of· with different inter, sts. 
Feedback boxes stationed in each dining hall. For instance, if a suggestion is 
.-------------------------~~----------------------------------------------------------~~~~·----------------­
NOTICES 

Cheap skate. M-W-F-12-1 free. Skate rental $.75. Snack bar. 
CLASSIFIED A~JS 
Sewing repairs. Reasonable. Call 8051. 
..t'.~ 

........,.,.,c>r·,·., ·. "-_,,_.--,~...~.--::---~::4.-::;.: ..~~e:);~.-:..;...,· •.~ ~··~Y~~-.. ~•. h · 
--.-......-.. 
made to include a particular item on the menu, Miss Roose reviews the recipe for the entree while the dining hall manager reviews the possibility of producing it. 
After the committee considers the suggestion, Miss Roose an­swers the student who made it, if his name is on the blue card. According to Price, "If a student is serious enough to write, then he deserves an answer." 
The more specific a student is in filling out the card, the better the committee can do its job. One card commented, "Just bad." Only the 
complaintant could know exactly what was bad. Other cards complimented the salad bar and suggested that "waffles and pan­cakes be served at Sunday brunch." 
The Feedback Box is the brain storm of the Food Services Advi­sory Council, a group of 9 students appointed by the Student Body President which meets monthly with administrators and officials of all campus food services in an effort to provide the best possible services. 
The suggestion box is not the only way Food Service officials obtain student reactions. Often Mr. Price or one of the dining hall managers eats with students and listens to their comments. Another way to find out what students like and dislike is by observing waste on their trays. 
"We want to make the students happy, this will make everyone feel better," Price commented. 
N D Boxing Club beg/·ns •norkOUfS 
.,.,, 

The Notre Dame Boxing Club 
will be starting novice workouts for 
the fall semester. Any full. time 
Notre Dame graduate or under­
graduate students interested in 
learning how to box are invited. 
Workouts will begin today, Sept. 27 
at 345 pm in the Notre Dame 
Boxing Room. 
Bengal Boxers interested in get­
ting back into shape are welcome to 
attend. 

Questions call Joe Cooler at 
"'181 

Need 4 Ga tix to Michigan State. Call Steve 8610. 
Nee ~!;; Southern Cal. tix. Mark 287­705i 
Enterprising ND slum looking to employ sturdy students for outdoor work. Work during your free mornings or afternoons to earn $$ for those weekends ahead. For info. call 277-2234, Mon-Fri after 7 p.m. 
-----------------~ 
Fifty dollars is what I'II pay for 2 USC GA tix. Call Steve 1478. 
Need $$$? Sell be 2 GA USC tix. Call Frank 277-4826. 
Need two Purdue tickets and-or ride. Call Pat 8515. 
Wanted: Enterprising instructor or stu­dent to sell Christmas and spring break vacation trip. Group Travel Associates, Inc., 202 Division, Elgin, II. 60120 (312) 697-8855. 
FOR SALE 

Corningware electric percolators (coffee pots) 50 percent off. Call 6985. 
Stella 10-gear bike, Columbus alloy tubing, excellent touring bike -24.5 lbs. $200.00. Call 219-936-4626. 
Richeiieu Banjo, .5-string Wisconsin made -by hand. left hand picker a $200.00 steal with case. Cali 219-936­4626. 
Envoy TV 16 in. black & white with inside antennae. $50.00. Call 219-936-4626. 
Big bonanza sale. 1(Olympus 28 mm f 3.5 Zuiko lens fits all OM-1 and OM-Z cameras, $100. 2) AZUKI 10-speed bicycle Marauder rims, ideal saddle $90. 
3) Television, 19 in. B & W perfect picture. $60. 4) Bunch of photo stuff, filters, guik film lodgers, best offers. Call John J. Smith at 8315. 
Honda CB175, new battery, electric start, good condition, $270. 277-2123. 
PERSONALS 

Wack, Here is your first personal. Please remember tt epower of the printed word, (the pen is lrl';;htier than the light bulb) 
Breath 

Mary Bergonia istoocheapto pay for a personal. Send all contributions to 305 BP 
To my Zahmers, Thank you all so much for making the big 21 so special. The cake was great & I still think you are No. 1 in partying. Love, 
Milwaukee Ann 

CAMPUS MINISTRY WEST-Offices ground floor Badin-student operated 6:3Q-midnight. Study-socialize Sunday thru Thrusday. 
Dear ROCK, Don't say you never got a Personal. 
G 

The 24th is the kid's 21st! Happy birthday, Kevin Ziemer. Stoneman 
Anne, Ann, Betty Ann, Kathy Ann, Kittle 
·Ann, Cindy Ann (& Michael), Maryanne & Anne Marie, You are the greatest! I'll never forget the big 21 ! The party was great even though I jinxed everything! Peace &Happiness, 
AB 

Bob, Happy Birthday! love, Olivia &Christy 
P.S. Amber too! 
Congrats to Suzanne on securing the Coldwater Women's High Series of 519 pins. Go Beeber! 
William Reed, Happy 21st. Love, MJ 
Dig-it-sayers are greatly missed at ND Jednota to Slade, Del, and Stan. Rocco & Marco 
Hi, Polish Buddy, you're better than any Pot 0' Gold! I love you ... The Leprechaun 
ryping. Reasonable rates. Call 8051. 
Accurate, fast typing. Mrs. Donoho. 232-0746. Hours: 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. 
CONTACT lENS WEARERS. Save on brand name hard and soft lens supplies. Send for free Illustrated catalog. Contact Lens Supplies, Box 7453, Phoenix, Ari­zona 85011. 
Interviewing and testing candidates to become commissioned officers in the United States Marien Corps-for an ap­pointment contact the Selection Team in LaFortune September 20-23, 9:00a.m. to 4:00p.m. 
Gay Community at NO. lnfollne 8870 Fri. & Sat. 10-12 p.m. 
Gay Community at NO Guide to ND­SB $1. Pandoras or Box 206 NO 
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND Student loans $2Q-$150. 1day wait. 1perc ent interest. Due in 30 days. LaFor­tune Basement. M-F 11:15-12:15. 
Come to Vic's birthday party on fuesday, September 27, at Vegetable Buddies (downtown across from the Big Hole) NO COVER CHARGE. $.25 beers. 
Big football weekender party Campus View rec. room. Saturday 8-2. 20 kegs. Everyone invited. 
FOR RENT 

Two furnished bedrooms for rent. Coun­try house, 10 minutes from Notre Dame. Share living quarters with two other students. 277-3604. 
LOST & FOUND 

Lost: Pair of brown glasses. lost in South Dining Hall of 9-8-77. Call Kinny at 232-9140. 
lost a round decorative pin, between Walsh & Farley and Farley and the North Dining Hall. 
Found: Set of keys in Observer Office. Come to claim. 
Found: On sidewalk 1976 Holy Cross preparatory class ring. Call Denise 4-5402. 
Lost: One SMC class ring, initials CFH, 1978. REWARD. Cathy, 4-5143. 
Lost: Blue backpack probably in Stepan nter lot. Please return to 524 Cres­t Ave. or Observer office. Reward. 
~ 
234-0439. 
Lost: Umbrella. Brown & off-white. Call John 1848 (around midnite) 
WANTED 

BIG MONEY MURF needs USC tickets. Call 234-8858 anytime. 
Need ride to Ft. Wayne on Friday, Sept. 
23. Cllij-.Diane at 7813. 
Wanted: Desperately need 1 student ticket for USC-NO game! Will pay$. Cali 4-4124. 
Needed: Five GA tix for USC. Cali Telana -4-5745. 
Part-time. Must be willing to work weekends. See Mr. Randazzo Forum I & I I Cinema 52709 U.S. 31 North. 
Wanted SC tickets, will pay premium. Cali collect 714-498-3000. 
We need you I! Need ride to vicinity of 
North side of r·  ago Friday Sept. 23!!  
Please call Of  4-5408 or Geri 4-5498.  
Desperately r  de to Purdue. 4 riders  
will help witt,  11 '1 SMC 4155.  
Desperately nf'  cix to Mich. State.  
Please call Ru"  112.  
Need 2GA ticke  ,\>1ichigan State. Cali  
Mike 1170.  

I WILl BE FORE'v ERIN JEBT TO YOU if you sell a pair (2) of G , tickets for the USC game. My parents ~nt to come and cheer for old Notre L me. Will pay $$$$$. Cali Mary 1313. 
Need 2 GA USC ticket~ Will pay $$$. Cali John at 1170. 
Wanted: Used 35 mm. camera in good condition. Japanese makes ok. Chris 277-3604 or 272-9895. 
Need good but inexpensive stereo. Cali Mike 1935. 
Desperately need one USC GA or student ticket. Will pay or trade. Cali George or Matt 3349. 
Desperately need up to 4 Georgia Tech tickets. Cali 7912. 
Need 4 USC GA tix. Will pay$, Call Ron 1423. 
Desperately need USC tickets. Call 4-4774. 
Need ride to Milwaukee Friday Sept. 23. Call Mike 8946. 
Wanted: 2 USC tix, will pay big bucks. Ron 8711. 
Big money for 4 Mich. State GA tix. Call Jacob 8720. 
Wanted: Two tickets to Michogan Statr game. 291-2079. 
Make a girl happy! Sell me four Ga tickets to USC. Also interested in pur­chasing Michigan State GA tickets. Great money. Carol 8983. 
I desperately need 3 tickets for Georgia Tech. 8774. 
Need ride to Buffalo on Sept. 23. Call Bill 6770. 
Need 2-4 GA tickets to Mich. St., Navy, or Georgia Tech games. Will pay top $. Call Pat 8377 or 8378. 
I'll pay extra for good Ga Mich. State tix. Joan 1280. 
Will trade COORS an' -or $$$ for one Michigan State ticket. hevin 283-1582. 
Need four Ga tix USC preferably together Call Rick 8688. 
Wanted: 1Q-20 GA tickets to any home game. Will pay any$$$. Cali 1212 or 1197 ask for Bob. 
Need help part-time must be willing to work weekends and holidays. Prefer local student but will consider others. Forum Cinema 1mi. north of ND campus on U.S. 31 North. See Mr. Randazzo evenings or weekends. 277·1371. 
2 Purdue tix. Call1057. 
Wanted: Two Purdue tix, call Bob 8330. 
Please help! Need 3 tickets for Georgia Tech. Call Judy 7375 or Nancy 7414. 
Wanted: Six GA tickets to USC. Call Jenne at 4-400·1. 
Desperately n1eed tickets to Michigan State and Southern Cal. Please call Marianne at 1262. 
Wanted: 4 Ga tickets for Southern Cal. Will pay good bucks. Call 1423, ask for Mike. 
Wanted: 5 USC tickets. Cali Paul at 1424. 
Wanted: Two tickets to Michigan State game, either GA or student ticket. Call Mark 1436. 
-------·---------­Wanted: 2 to 4 USC tickets. Student or GA. Will pay money! Suzy 5148. 
One MSU student football ticket. Will pay $$$(money) or laughs. Call Mary 1313. 
Fridnshlps at stake. Desperately need Michigan State tix preferably student tix. Good money. Stave P' 37. 
Research assistant needed. Psychology background preferred. 1D-20 hours per week. Hours varied to suit your schedule. Hourly wage r111 George 287-4785 after p.m. 
Wanted: lJSC tickets. Will pay good bucks. Cf lim at 1419. 
HFLP TRICIA (4-5222) get: ride to Louis­viii~ 9-23, 2 Michigan tickets. 
t-le1· .od: 1-4 tix for Army game. Call Mar.a 1318. 
GA's and stud. tix for USC game. $$$$. Mick 2743. 
Need 2 Southern Cal. tix. Beth 272­
2340. 

Desperately need 2 Purdue tickets. Call Mike 3119, 
Wanted: 2 GA tickets for Mich. State. Will pay $. Call Meg 4-4046. 
Need 2 GA's for Michigan State. Colin 
8689. 

Need 6 GA tickets to MSU. $. Call Tony 1610. 
Classified ad rates 
RATES. Classified ads are charged according to the chart below. NUMBER OF DA.YS 
1 2 3 4 5 
Cll 
Q 

1-10 1.00 1.30 1.55 1.75 2.00
Cll: 

0 1.1-15 1.35 1.85 ~2.25 2.50 2.85 ~ 16-20 1.65 2.-30 2.55 2.95 3.20 LL. 21-25 2.05 2.90 3.50 4.25 4.90 
0 

26-30 2.45 3.50 4.25 5.15 5.90Cll: w 31·35 2.80 4.00 4.75 5.85 8.20 a:l 
36-40 3.15 4.55 5.?5 7.10 8.65 
~ 

41-45 3.40 5.o:; 6.;w 7.45 9.40
:::> 

z 416-50 3.90 5..55 6.90 8.20 10.20 
DEADLINE. All classifieds must be received by 5:00 pm, two days prior to the issue in which the ad is to run. The Observer office will accept classifieds Monday through Firday, 
10:00 am to 5:00pm. 

PAYMENT. All classifieds must be pre-paid, either in person or through the mail. 
Classified Ads are non-refundable. 
•... ·...'a,.l 'o..'••. L; '•'"• " • .• 
• -o\. ' J. I'' .• ; 1.. ._1_' : ~ -: .;.........~. ·'1 
' 

-

r~----·:·:--~.-:-,-o-b-.-,-:-·-,r-.-----------.-·------~.-----~-----------------------------------·--.-------­
! 1 Boilermakers promise aerial attack 
By Tim Bourret Sports Writer 
When major college football fans discus the best institution for producing quarterbacks Notre Dame is usually the first school mentioned. After all, the Irish have produced 13 All-American signal callers, including four Reisman Trophy winners, in their illustrious football history. 
But, a school just south of the Golden Dome has a tradition of great quarterbacks that is nearly as impressive. Purdue quarter­backs have also been selected on many occassions to All-American units, especially in the fifties abd sixties. Ironically, many of the successful Boilermaker quarter­backs have gained much of their fame through supurb individual performances against Notre Dame. 
The string of outstanding Boilermakers demonstration of passing proficiency against Notre Dame began in 1954. Sophomore quarterback Len Dawson, most remembered in football lore for his professional. exploits with the Kansas City Chiefs, led the Boilers to a 27-14 major upset victory over Notre Dame in South Bend. Dawson fired four touchdown passes tying a record for aerial scores against Notre Dame. The Purdue victory ended a modest 13-game unbeaten string for Notre Dame and ultimately cost the Irish a national championship, as it was the only defeat suffered by Terry Brennan's first team. 
Bob Griese, another profes­sional standout who led a team to a Super Bowl title, continued the tradition between 1964-66. As a sophomore in 1964 he connected on 14 of 23 passes against Ara Parseghian's initial team at Notre Dame. The Irish were victorious 34-15, but Griese had been impressive. 
The following season in West Lafayette, Griese had the greatest 

Tom Desmond;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;::::====:===:==::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;::=::;:;:;:;:;::;:;:;::======::==:===:=:=:::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;::::======:::;:;:;:;:;:;::========:=:=========:::;:;:;:;:;:;::=::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:; 
Strategy 
=========:::::::::::::=:=:=:::::=:===================:=====:=========::==============:======:==:=======:====::::===============:====:==================:=:=:=:=========:=:=::;:;::=:============================:::;:;::=:============:=====::::::=:==:=====::========::::::=====:====::::::=::===================:::::Six-Pointers 
The king js dead. Long live the king. 
Right now there are at least seven contenders for the throne that the Irish have vacated with their performance over the last two weeks. Michi~an, USC, Oklahoma, Ohio State, Penn State, Texas Tech and Texas all received first-place votes in this week's AP poll that ranks the Irish 11th. 
But, nothing IS to say that the Irish have eliminated themselves from the run for the crown. Only Penn State and USC do not play another team on that honor list. The Trojans, however, must play Notre Dame. 
Dan Devine and his troops have a long, uphill road if they are to return to the lofty heights accorded them m pre-season. This is still the same team that received all the ink in the early autumn but has yet to reaffirm those accolades on the field. Now, the chips are down. It's all on the table. If the Irish can put together some consistency on the field of battle and get continuity in the offensive scheme of things then they can re-join the chase for the championship. 
In order to make a true run at the top the team will have to develop the flair of a winner. They must hustle to the line of scrimmage with a cocky sort of confidence that manifests itself on every down. The team must have confidence to make the plays work offensively and throw a monkey wrench into the attack of the opposition. 
There is no longer any justification for holding back. The New York Yankees were much-maligned by the press for the better part of the summer. The Irish have been much-maligned for the last two weeks. Something called "Yankee pride" seems to have vaulted the New Yorkers into first place. It's time for some of "Notre Dame pride" to take over. The talent is there, let pride make it work. 
Talent and pride will surely be on the Purdue sideline this Saturday backed by a capacity crowd of 69,200. The game will be televised locally -on WNDU-TV at 1:30 and here is what the Irish must conquer if they are 
to start a march to regain the throne. . 
When Purdue has the ball: Mark Herrmann is the Boilermaker offense. Statistics are sometimes meaningless --not his --they're awesome. In two games he has completed 43 of 68 passes for 621 yards·· more total yards than the Notre Dame offense. The freshman phenom has single-handedly turned Purdue into one of the deadliest passing teams in the country. 
For targets, Herrmann has senior· split end Reggie Arnold who has already caught 13 passes for 224 yards and flanker Ray Smith who has snared 10 passes for 156 yards.· Fullback Joe Skibinski has been Herrmann's target on nine occasions coming from his backfield spot. 
Skibinski is the Boilers primary ball carrier with 28 carries fo~ 92 yards. His running mate is another fullback Mike Brown who provtdes added size in Purdue's pro-set attack. 
Defensively, all the weight rests on the shoulders of the Irish secondary. It is obvious that Purdue will put the ball up on every other down. How well the secondary can stand up with the constant pressure will be the key. Luther Bradley will finally get a chance to show his talents as the Purdue offense will take some action his way. At times last year and against Pitt in the opener it seemed as though the 
passing day a quarterback has 
ever had against the Irish. The 
then farm-type boy from Evans­
ville Indiana, completed 19 of 22 
passes for 283 yards against a 
Notre Dame defense that ranked 
sixth in the nation at season's end 
in total defense. HE not only 
threw three touchdown passes and 
set up the winning score with 
accurate passes, but also ran nine 
times for a better than five yard 
average and handled the punting 
and place-kicking. It was, in short, 

an old-fashioned triple threat 
performance. 

In 1966, Griese was again effective, but the day belonged to sophomore Terry Hanratty. The Notre Dame quarterback com pled 16 passes for over 300 yards in Notre Dame's 26-14 victory, earning him a share of the cover of Sports !Uustrated magazine. 
But, the following year a Purdue quarterback dominated the con­test and was selected for the cover of Sports iUustrated for his accomplishments. Mike Phipps is the only quarterback in the 89-year history of Notre Dame football to defeat the Irish three straight seasons. His pinpoint passing and deceptive play-calling helped upset the Irish three times between 1967 and 1969. 
The 1967 clash between the Irish and the Boiler was an aerial circus. Terry Hanratty cocked his arm and let fly 63 times, still a Notre Dame record for passing attempts in a game. He completed 29 for 336 yards and ran an additional 84 yards, but the Irish dropped a 28-21 decision to the Phipps-paced Boilers. Phipps threw less, but completed a higher percentage, and he hit on 14 passes for 328 yards and two touchdowns. The Purdue triumph was especially note­worthy because Notre Dame was the defending national champion and rated number-one in the preseason poll. 
The 1968 encounter was billed 

opposition was purposely throwing away from the hard-hitting corner 
back. 

The pass rush will also be an instrumental factor as Herrmann's running statistics seem to indicate that he is sackable, having rushed nine times for minus-60 yards with a long rush oi five yards. The questionable status of Willie Fry and Mike Calhoun may hurt the all-important pass rush. 
When the Irish have the ball: The Boilers. have a veteran defensive unit that has allowed only 141 yards on the ground in two games. The Irish will have to contend with the always tough Boiler defensive troops in establishing the ball control ground game that must produce successful touchdown drives. 
Vagus Ferguson left Saturday's game at Missisippi with an injury but X-rays showed it was nothing serious. Continuity in the ground game will be instrumental as Ferguson, Jerome Heavens and Terry Eurick will be called upon to provide the yardage. Rusty Lisch will again be called on to provide the dual-threat to run and pass. The Purdue defense has yielded 230 yards in the air in allowing their opponents to complete 53 percent of their aerials. The Irish will have to mix up the running and passing attacks in order to establish an offense. 
Defensively, Purdue features local South Bend product Kevin Motts. Motts, a 223-pound linebacker, led the Boilers in tackles last year. Purdue US{!S the same 5-2 system that Pitt and Ole Miss used in the two Irish encounters so far. In Marcus Jackson, a 270-pound tackle, Purdue has the big~gest lineman to face Notre Dame to date. 
Specialists: Dave Reeve continues to supply the pressure field goals for the Irish. Joe Restic has yet to return to his record-setting, freshman year form. · . 
Scott Soverene pumped home three field goals last week in Purdue's 44-7 win over Ohio U. --a modern school record. Dave Eagin Handles the punting chores and carries a 38-yard average on six punts. Again, the specialists are capable. 
Analysis: Purdue hasn't scored on the Irish in two years. Their reliance on the passing game may cost them in the crucial third-down plays insid1e the Irish twenty. Support of this would seem to be the Boilers kicking three field goals in a game they won 44-7. 
The Irish pass rush must be potent or else Herrmann will be able to pick the Irish secondary apart with his accuracy and talented targets. Given time any quarterback is effective, but, give a gifted passer time ... 
The Purdue players want this game as is evidenced by some quotes in the Purdue literature this week: Split end R<eggie Arnold --"This is my last Notre Dame game and I want to rememb,er it." Safety Rock Supan: -· "Of course 'Notre Dame is a challenge, but I feel we have a great chance to beat them." Offensive tackle MikH Barberich --"We're on the upswing now and a win over Notre Dame will certainly enhance our bowl chances." Mishawaka Marian product Kevin Motts --"It's not a question of getting ready for them for me; I've been doing that for twenty years." 
Purdue has the pride and desire to take on Notre Dame. The Boilermakers are certainly ready. Are the Irish? 
as an Elarly seaso .n Poll Bowl. Before the Irish were rated number-one by United Press International and the Boilers nuumber-one by the Associated Press. Pwrdue was victorious in the mos1~ offensive display of the 48-game series 37-22, after the two machines rolled uup a combined total of 55 first downs and 933 yards in total offense. Leroy Keyes got most of the ink for Purdue after he delighted the national television audience with his offensive and defensive heroics. But, Phipps was the real star as he hit 16 of 24 pases including· five of five on crucial third down plays. 
Phipps completed his hat tricks in 1969 against another favored Irish eJ,even. Once again he completed over sixty percent of his passes in calmly leading the Boilers to a 28-14 win. For his career Phipps completed 42 of 78 passes for 645 yards, all career records for a Notre Dame opponent. 
Since Phipps' graduation the Boilermakers have lacked an all-star signal-caller. Notre Dame has dominated the series in the seventies, winning six of the seven confrontations in this decade. But, Boiler fam; feel the draught has ended with the arrival Hoosier-grown Mark Hermann. 
The 6-Ei freshman has turned the normally mediocre Purdue offense into an explosive attack. The Boilers are ranked third in passiing and eighth in total offense nationally behind Her­mann's 43 of 68 completion accuracy.. 
Notre Dame has a bad habit of making national celebraties ou of young superstars (i.e. Anthony Davis, 1972 and Tony Dorsett, 1973). Lenny Dawson, Bob Griese and Mike Phipps all were ouutstanding in their first appear­ance against the Irish. Mark Hermann is hoping he is heir to that tradition. 

---1'' ~· 
···r.. l'. •· L·J 
,. ,. \ l( ·"' 
~.-.";.t. I ' o
j' ... ~ 
t''• 
"'' 

Kicker Dave Reeve has responded to early season pressure and consequently leads the Iris~ 1., .scoring with 14 points. 
*Observer t ·· 
. . ~' I 

.sports 
-........._____ __ ----------------­
Sailing team victorious 
The Notre Dame sailing team 
tallied another victory this past 
weekend with a win over 10 
opposing schools at their home 
regatta. Competing on Eagle Lake, 
Michigan last weekend, Notre 
Dame overcame a beginning deficit 
to best the eleven boat fleet. 
Second and third places went to the 
University of Michigan and Florida 
State, respectively. 
Sailint "A" division for Notre 
Dame were John Goodill and 
Martha Boyle, while Paul Makiel­
ski manned the "B" division with 
Sue Smiggen and Barretta Rey­
nolds alternating as crew. Makiel­
ski and crew won their segment, 
recording 24 points in 9 races. 
"This year's team has the 
strength and depth to again be a 
top contender," Race Team Cap­
tain John Goodill stated. Goodill 
added, however, that with the 
number of scheduled events, the 
team is looking for perspective 
sailors. All are invited to attend 
the club's meetings every Wed­
nesday at 6:30 in room 303 of the 
Engineering Building. For more 
information, call Lory at 4720 or 
Jay at 8307. 
Red Sox sweep Yankees 
boston ap) -George Scott snapped a 2-2 tie with his 33rd home run with two out in the sixth inning, then turned in a spectacular double . play at first base to ent the game as the Boston Red Sox edged the New York Yankees 3-2 Wednesday night. 
The victory enable the Red Sox 
to sweep a two-game series and 
move to within 21/2 games of the 
front-running Yankees in the 
American League East. Boston 
trails New York by just two 
games in the loss column with 11 'games to play. 








