
--~------------------~--------------~--~­
'Logan cutback totally 
Unnecessary 
says Bowen 
by Peggy McGuire Staff Reporter 

Indiana Governor Otis Bowen stated late Thursday afternoon that he will recommend that the state budget committee reappropriate funds for services to the developmentally disabled. 
Bowen said that the cutback "is thoroughly unacceptable and totally unnecessary ... There is to be little doubt that the department of mental health's funding formula, which was the basis for its financial notification to Indiana's centers last Friday, is gravely inadequate." 
Aloysius Soenneker, executive director of the Council for the Retarded of St. Joseph County, said that the state budget agency met Friday to 
f discuss the governor's request. 
"I understand that surveys have been sent to the various MRDD (Mental Retardation and Developmental Disabilities) centers in the state," Soenneker said. "Each center is to phone in its reply by Wednesday. Friday,· the agency 
will meet to look at the results.'' 
The governor asked that the budget agency's efforts to prepare a new formula for the distribution of funds to the MRDD' "be the top priority of that staff so that local centers now financially plagued can be spared further apprehension." 
In stressing the urgency of his plea, Bowen asked the state budget committee to finalize their report before the original Oct. 15 dateline. "I would hope that we would be able to safely advise the financially troubled centers as to the proposed new spending levels before that date so they can plan to meet their program needs as quickly as possible," the governor stated. 
The gubernatorial statement also included a promise to devise a new formula for funding the 
MRDD centers. Bowen stated that "there are potentially serious flaws'' in the present method · ''flaws that if left uncorrected could result in leaving some of the centers seriously short of operating funds." The governor proposed the formation of a special committee to collect data and statistics on the MRDD centers. "Such a statutory manage­ment tool will assure the state of the timely flow of accurate statistical information from the local centers and assure the local center of the method by which the state will make its financial decisions,'' he said. Bowen also apologized for the shortcomings in the state budget committee's present allocation system. "It is deeply regrettable that our state administrators failed to devise a more solemnly 
The statement came after a series of protests against the cutback. "The governor's statement was a direct response to public pressure," South Bend Tribune reporter Nancy Sulok said. "I think that the citizen's reaction in St. Joseph County, which was stronger than anywhere else in the state, helped prompt the reply." 
The state has not yet announced the extent of the reappropriation. "It is quite certain that there will be an increase from the original
allocation,'' Soenneker stated, ''but at this point, no one knows the amount." 
"I understand that this time the agency is going to start from how much the agency requested rather than the operational costs for existing programs," the executive director continued. "Hopefully this will allow for expansion of old projects and de\ elopment of new programs.'' 
According to Soenneker, the Council for the Retarded has place their rally against the cutback "on hold". 
"The parents aren't going to go to sleep on this thing," he claimed. "The council is just giving the state time to act. If they don't restore the 
based formula--for substantially more state and funds, we're ready to fight." federal funds are available state-wide for the Soenneker is optimistic however. "The operation of those centers than were expended governor is obviously upset. I hope that he'll last year," he claimed. follow through on his commitment." 
~~~~~~~~~~ 
Faces from home and away reflect the joy of our first home game. Cold hands, light heart! [Photo by John Caluctt] 

Armed troops surround hijacked Japanese jet 
Damascus, Syria [AP] -A hijacked Japanese airliner landed at the Damascus airport early Monf.ay with 40 persons--including 29I' Jst­ages reported still aboard. 
The Japan Air Lines DC8' nded at 5:28a.m. (11:28 p.m. E1 ,) and was immediately surrounded by armed troops in a remote comer of the airfield 15 miles from Damas­cus. 
The Japanese Foreign Ministry said it had a report from Damascus that the five Japanese Red Army guerrilias would free 10 hostages in the Syrian capital, and that the ten would include two of the three Americans reported still held cap­tive. But it said it did not know the names of those to be released. 
Seven other hostages were released during a refueling stop in Kuwait, because they were ill, Kuwait Defense Minister Sheik Saad Abdullah said. They included four Japanese,two Australians and a New Zealander. 
Japan Air Lines officials in Tokoyo said the JAL DC8 circled over the Kuwait airport for about an hour before the government of the Persian Gulf emirate permitted it to land. 
The jetliner had left Bangladesh after a terror-filled five and one­half day siege at Dacca airport. 
The hijackers, identified as members of the ultra-leftist Japa­nese "Red Army," had seized the jetliner over India on Wednesday and, in the course of round-the­clock _negotiations with Banglades~ authorities, freed 118 of the1r hostages in exchange for $6 million in ransom and six "comrades" freed from Japanese jails. 
The hijackers had said they 
. [Contlaued on page.3] 

With SCS group 


Women organize rape-prevention 
Editor's Note: This is the first of a three part series discussing proposed solutions to the problem of the security of women on campus. The first article deals with rape-prevention education. 
by Ann Gales Senior Staff Reporter 
Students for Campus Security {SCS), a group organized by sev­eral Notre Dame graduate women concerned with the present security situation on campus, recently sub­mitted a five-point proposal on campus security to Dean of Stu­dents James Roemer. 
The proposal includes sug­gestions intended to increase se­curity on campus through modif-. · ications in the areas of educational programs, lighting, communica­tions, transportation and security personnel. 
Roemer said that he was in the process of looking into the proposal and would not be prepared to comment for approximately two weeks, at which time he would release an open letter to the Notre Dame community. 
However, other University of­
ficials and persons concerned with 
the issue of campus security voiced 
their opinions regarding the prob­
lem areas discussed in the pro­
posal. 
According to Paula Fulks, a 
second-year-law student and one of 
the organizers of SCS, the present 
program of rape-prevention ed­
ucation on campus needs consider­
able revision. Agreeing with Fulks 
was Associate Provost Sr. John 
Miriam Jones, who described her 
responsibilities as ''the well-being 
of the co-education system." 
Jones outlined the measures 
presently taken by the University to 
educate female students on how to 
guard against rape and sexual 
attacks. Each fall, she explained, 
a special orientation program is 
held for incoming freshmen co-eds. 
This program is presented· at a 
campus-wide meeting for all 
'incoming women, and also in each 
of the individual women's resi­
dence halls. 
Jones said that the University 
... 
owns periodicals and shows a movie entitled "How to Say No to a Rapist and Survive.'' This movie is based on a book written by Frederic Storaska, executive director of the National Organization for the Pre­vention of Rape and Assault. Also, campus security distributes pamphlets regarding rape-preven­tion to all undergraduate women each year. 
Fulks and Jones agreed that the present education should be expanded to only 
.· · but 
cessful, he said, as a total of nine 
rapes and attempted rlj.pes have 
been reported since June of 1975. 
Purdue Police Chief Donald 
Jones stated that only one attempt­
ed rape has been reported on 
campus since 1975, although he 
agreed with Huntington that a 
number of sex crimes probably go 
unreported each year. 
"Using good, common sense has 
a lot to do with avoiding the , problem of rape," chief Jones observed. "I think it's a good idea to inform the women, then let them prevent these things from happen­
ing." 
Lt. Joseph Molnar of the St. 
Joseph County Police commented 
favorably on the programs sponsor­
ed by police at Purdue and IU. 
"We would certainly consider 

.: ': starting such a program," he :. ': stated. "In fact, we do have a · ,. ' ·: two-hour mini-seminar prepared 
.· .. , , , · which consists of films and a short · · · · · lesson on defensive tactics." 
However, Molnar said that he felt police should work with Univer­sity security and student groups in developing a program of security education. "It is important to-work with University agencies because they are really in charge when it comes to campus rapes," he said, adding, "We don't want to force ourselves on anyone." 
Fulks said that she thought the IU and Purdue programs were ''a fairly good idea,'' though she expressed uncertainty as to whether the best approach to solution of the problem would be through the police. 
As to the general problem of 
campus rape, Molnar stated that he 
believed publicity should be limited 
to campus media. "Of course the 
problem is extremely important,'' 
he said. "One rape in any given 
time period is too many. You 
couldn't pay a million dollars to 
cover the damage done to a victim 
of rape." 
But Molnar commented that too 
much outside publicity would prob­
ably be detrimental to the situa­
tion. ."It's good to keep the problem in 'the house," he concluded. 
End of part one. Tomorrow's article will deal with lightlag and communications. 
"I that the program is effective, but it's hard to measure the exact number of rapes that have been prevented," IU Police Director George Hunting­ton said. 
Huntington revealed that the program was developed as part of an extensive rape-prevention cam. paign that was initiated after 15 rapes were reported in the summer of 1973. The campaign appears to· haye .been at least partially sue­


-~----------~ ----~-. 
----------~------------------~ 
~onday, Ckiober3, 1977
2 the observer 
,_News Briefs _____ 
.===::=================================== Nationall 
Dyan comments on talks 
INDIANAPOLIS-Israel will not participate in the proposed Middle East peace talks at Geneva if a separate Palestinian group is represented there, Israeli Foreign Minister Moshe Dyan said here yesterday. "If we do accept that, then we a~ree before the negotiations have ever started that there 1s a Palestinian state," Dyan said in a speech before the Indianapolis Hebrew Academy. 
Senate .filibuster continues 
WASHINGTON-The Senate remains tied up in a filibuster as it enters its third week of debate over natural gas pricing while the House prepares to tackle a controversial labor issue. Two test votes have shown that supporters of natural gas deregualtion would win if given the chance, but Democratic Sens. James Abourezk of South Dakota and Howard Metzenbaum of Ohio have promised to continue their filibuster. In the House, a major bill to streamline the nation's laws covering first-time labor organizing activities is due for debate tomorrow. 

Supermarket prices drop 
NEW YORK -Supermarket shoppers got a break last month, with prices edging down almost one percent, and Associated Press market basket shows. Continuing declines in the cost oi coffee and pork chops, along with scatterd savings on a variety of other 1tems, helped offset increases, mainly in the price of 
orangf' juice. ~~----­

·weather -::;~, 
Sunny and cool through tomorro~, with highs around 60. Clear and cold tonight with lows in the mid to upper 30's. 
~On Campus Today_.........,.. 
10-4 pm  recruiting archie gress, re_p. for volunteers for educational and social services, recruiting students for work in Texas and Mexico, library concourse  
3:30pm  demonstration instruction in use of suvon telephone network, open to all librarians, faculty and staff, lib. aud.  
4 pm  civilisation film series things," carroll hall  "the man-the measure of all  
7, 9:15 & 11:30 pm  film "m.a.s.h." sponsored by air force rotc, eng. aud., $1.  
7:20 pm  duplicate bridge ladies of nd, duplicate bridge, university club  faculty  and  staff  
7:30 pm  meeting  ameriasian club, Iafortune lobby  
The deadline for On-Campus Today notices is 2 pm of the preceeding day. Notices reaching the Observer office after this deadline will not be accepted. Also, notices for this section must be submitted several days in advance.  


Interview sign-ups open 
Job interviews are open to seniors and graduate students in the December, May and August dasses. Students may sign up any day this week for the interviews scht!duled for next week, at the Placement Bureau, which is open 8 
a.m. through 5 p.m. 
*The Observer 
Night Editor: Steve Odland Asst. Night Editor: Sandy Colson Layout Staff: Mike Culotta Editorial Layout: Kevin Sweeney Sports Layout: Paul Steven­son Typists: Mark Rust, Anne Giere, Suzy Plavac, Leigh Tunaken Night Controller: Mardi Nevin Day Editor: Mike Lewis Copy Reader: Phil Cackley Ad Layout: Klurn Djvergngn ­Superstar Phetographer: John Calcutt , 
The Observer Is published Mon. dly ttlrough Frid1y except during ex1m 1nd v~~atlon periods. Tl)e Observer Is published by ttle students of Notre D1~ end S1lnt Miry's College. Subscriptions m1y be purchesed for 120 per ye1r (SIO per semester) from The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dime, lndl1n1 usu. Second clln post..e pilei, Notre D•me, lndllnl, 4U56. 
The Observer Is 1 member of the Auocleted Preu. All repro· dudlon rtghts ere reserved. 
.,. 
... ",. . . 
Any students intending to have interviews must have a completed profile (registration) form on file at the Placement Bureau. Registra­tion, interview sign-up sheets and employer literature are in Rm. 213 of the Main Building. 
Students should consult the Placement Bureau Manual for additional information regarding interview and Placement Bureau services and procedures. Students must sign up for interviews person­ally. 
Sign-up schedules for law school interviews are in O'Shaugnessy Hall, the Pre-Law Society. 



Carroll houses undergrads 
by John Mahon 
Carroll Hall has recently been 
converted to a residence hall for 
Notre Dame undergraduates. 
Formerly a hall for Holy Cross 
Brothers and graduate students, it 
was used first this year to accomo­
date an overflow· of freshmen 
students, but will now continue as a 
full fledged undergraduate dorm. 
There are seventy-three students 
living at Carroll, of which fifty-five 
are freshman. They are enthusias­
tic about the new hall, and eager to 
build hall spirit. 
Hall elections were held this past 
weekend, and all candidates ex­
pressed desires to make the hall 
more attractive and accesible. 
Particularly slated for renovation is 
the large unfinished basement. 
"Hopefully we can make it into a 
game and recreation room where 
all the students can meet," said 
St. Mary's seniors sponsor contest; plan activities 
by Sue BaUmann 
The Senior Class of St. Mary's is sponsoring a T-shirt contest. Designs should be submitted in actual color and size on a piece of paper to either 451 LeMans or 453 LeMans. The deadline for entries is Monday, October 10, and the prize consists of $20 and a free T-shirt. 
The Senior Class also needs chairmen for a number of commit­tees for graduation including tickets, Senior Mass, baccalaureate Mass, cocktail party, housing co­ordination, graduation brunch, and the Alumnae-Senior Brunch. Vol­unteers are needed as well to develop the idea of an award to be presented to an outstanding person who is admired by the seniors. Any questions should be referred to Maureen Morris, 4524, or Nancy Mogab, 5127. 

ERRATUM 
The Student Life Council (SLC) 
has filled all positions for both the 
University Judicial board and the 
Appeals board. A number of 
names were not reported in Fri­
day's Observer. 
In addition to the faculty names listed in Friday's article, Fred Syburg, associated professor of speech and drama, will serve on the judicial board; William McGlinn, professor of physics, will be on the Appeals board, along with Thomas Werge, associate professor of English, who will serve as alternate. 
Names accidentally omitted from Friday's article include: student members of the judicial board John Hagale and James Hoffman, both juniors; and David Summers, a sophomore; and G. Thomas Bull, director of Personnel, the sixth ad~inistrator on the panel. 

PREPARE FOR: 
MCIT •OAT •LSIT •OMIT 


ORE •OCIT •VAT· SIT 1MB I. II, Ill·ECFMG·FLEX·VQE 
NATL DENTAL BOARDS • NURSING BOARDS Flexible Progrem1 & HOUI'I 
~ere IS • dlfferen&e!tl 
For Information Please Call: 
Collect 

West Lafayette' 
·.~.

463-7026 ~ TEST PREPARATION 
I SPECIALISTS SINCE 11138 
Se~g Blo()J!lingtop, Indianapolis, Sollth)Bend l For Locations in otbert cities-1 
. Outside N.Y. State Only CAll TOLL FREE: 800·223·1782 Centers In Malar us Cities Toronto, Puerto Rico and Lueano, Switzerland 1 

one freshman. 
Carroll is located in a rather isolated part of the campus, which provides both advantages and dis­advantages. One freshman, Tim Mikula said, "It is too far to go to the library, but at least we didn't get raided by Dillon." 
Other students expressed the view that the isolation helps pro­mote comraderie between the stu­dents. Hall Rector, Bro. Paschal Pesce commented, "We have a real family atmosphere here." 
"The fact that the students are all thrown in together leads to more closeness between us," said Tom Stevenson. "It makes living togt­ther more enjoyable." 
Carroll Hall was originally de­signed as a residence for Holy Cross Brothers in the nineteen thirties. It was later partially converted to a graduate student residence, a dual function it served up until this time. 
The Carroll Hall Annex formerly served as the Naval ROTC convoca· tion hall, but is now used by the hall itself. 
XMAS CHARTER FLIGHT to NYC ROUND TRIP $92 
DEPARTURE DEC. 22 10PM RETURN JAN. 15 10PM 
Full Payment by check or money order in LaFortune lobby 12:30 -5 pm Moo -Fri 

MONDAY 
THRU 
WEDNESDAY 
ONE HOUR BEFORE GAME TIME 
LIVE ENTERTAINMENT FRIDAY & SA TURDA Y 
IF YOU'RE NOT A MEMBER JOIN NOW! 
HICKORY ROAD ONLY 
401 NORTH HICKORY 


--------------~~~~~--~·----~·--~----------------------~~~ 
----~------~~----------­
'. 


Oktoberfest termed successful 
by Anne Bachle 

Oktoberfest '77, which began last Wednesday and concluded Saturday, was "a big success", according to Oktoberfest Chair­person Kathy Friday. 
Extra attractions like the special night at Senior Bar, Gil Eagles' performance, and the stereo raffle all contributed to the overall success of the annual event, Friday noted. 
Several hundred students were present for the Thursday evening performance of Gil Eagles, a psychic and hypnotist, and Friday expressed disappointment that more people didn't see him. 

"He was very entertaining," she commented," and perhaps we can have him back again next semes­ter, because I think everyone there really enjoyed him." 
"I saw the Amazing Kreskin last year," Junior Meg Kelly com­mented,"and I thought Eagles' show was a lot better." 
"The Biergarten Friday night was, of course, a huge success," said Friday, noting that over seven hundred students were attracted to the festivities which included beer and snacks in Regina North Lounge while the band "Sahara" played in the South Lounge. 
Winner of the raffle for a Pioneer stereo was Matthew Hagerty, a Morrissey freshman, "I couldn't 

Student-run businesses regulated by University 
by Kate Flynn Staff Reporter 

Although the Notre Dame Book­store holds no official policy con­cerning student businesses on cam­pus, the University will not tolerate a "laissez-faire policy on private businesses run by students", according to Bro. Kieran Ryan, assistant vice president for Busi­ness Affairs. 
The Student Union merchandis­ing policy, drawn up last semester provides that any request for student businesses on campus must be submitted to the Service 
Commission  before  approval  by  
Student  Activities  Director  Br.  
John Benesh.  

The product to be sold must meet the merchandising policy's criteria: it must be unique, and not be in direct competition with the Book­store. 
Planner Records, a seven-year­old student-owned concession, poses a special problem to the policy, according to Mike Schlg-
ACS health care program planned 
The American Cancer Society 
(ACS) of St. Joseph County will conduct three days of public educa­tion on general health care today, tomorrow, and Wednesday, focus­ing on colorectal cancer followed by a colorectal screening program next Monday. 
Pat Rooney, Educational Service Director of St. Joseph Hospital, South Bend and a volunteer, will speak today and tomorrow. Inclu­ded will be the showing of the film "On With Your Life." 
All four days of the programming will be held at the Howard Park Senior Citizens Center, E. Jeffer­son Blvd. and St. Louis, from 1:30 to 2:30p.m. 
"Colorectal cancer affects both men and women equally and will claim more lives this year than any other type of cancer except skin,'' states Ed Stark, ACS Area Direc­tor. ''This is a surprising statistic to most people and that is· why we are emphasizing the education and screening program. Fortunately colorectal cancer is usually quite simple and easy to cure when detected early". 
St. Mary's holds Career Seminar 
by Honey McHugh 
eter of the Service Commission, because it undersells and competes directly with the Bookstore. 

According to Schlageter, the merchandising clause was written to prevent students from having complications with the state tax . laws and permits, since the Univer­sity would be held liable. Schlag­eter added, however, that he thinks the University does not wish to encourage competition with the Bookstore since its revenue is used to offset the cost of tuition. 
He said the Flanner Records situation raises the theoretical question of whether students want "a good deal or lower tuition." 
Ryan insisted that the regulation of student businesses is in the student's best interests. He denied that regulations were written to guarantee the Bookstore's monop­oly on campus and pointed that the duLac merchandising code does not even mention the Bookstore. Ryan claimed that unregulated student­operated businesses which dupli­

cate  services  provided  by  the  
University  do  not  work  to  the  
student's advantage.  

Flanner Records representative George Molitor claimed that stu­dents can save as much as one dollar per record over Bookstore prices. 
Along with Planner Records, the on-campus Adidas concession and the Miller and Anheuser Busch concessions will be carefully exa­mined before any apporval by the Service Commission and Student Activities. 
Schlageter said the Student Uni­on will exercise caution in approv­ing these businesses since the products they offer may be in violation of the merchandising policy's stipulation that a product be "unique". The beer conces­sions may be breach of the Univer­sity drinking regulations. 
The Service Commission reports that to date only the birthday cake concession has fulfilled the regis­tration requirement. All other concessions are urged to register with the Service Commission. Failure to comply with registration requirements will r.esult in a fine determined by Student Affairs of Student Activities, according to Schlageter. 
Copies of the Merchandising Policy are available at the Student Union offices on the second floor of LaFortune. 


ND Sl\IIC 
'THEATRE 

Mary Gail Carey, a 1972 gradu­
ds 

ate of Saint Mary's College, will be 
nee 

the featured speaker at the first in a series of informal discussions with 

USHERS 
recent graduates and recruiters. 

The program will be held today at 7:30 p.m. in Rm.246 Madeleva ·' · Hall. Co-sponsored by the Career For all shows-see Development Center and the SMC shows free. sign up Business Club, the seminar will now for entire season. focus on job opportunities for . call 284-4141 women in business. Seniors and all , oih~t& ,·students. ·a-re-.-jnvit~d.· ..{Q·,·. , . . .. . . 
attend~· ....··.:· ·· -~y_.·, £.·_: ...l:.:-,.l'.., ~·..l'."".....·........~~.-·~ .. .;. "... "" ...."'.<-...l,......:» ... ~"'~....<· ... ·i"f'v-~.<-,..··;" ....·.< ....·.;~ ~ · .• 
believe it," he stated, "I don't have a stereo at school, so I'll put it to use right away." 
Regina Hall was designated the 
best-decorated hall by a panel of judges which included Athletics Director Kathleen Cortes, Sr. Cecilia Ann Kelly, professor of Art, Gil Eagles, and Student Activities Director Mary Laverty. The prize 
was a large trophy, which will be passed from hall to hall in the future for the winner of this event. 
Friday was pleased -with the turn-out for the Happy Hour at the Library Friday afternoon. The "toe-tappin' trio" of St. Mary's juniors Colleen Cannon, Mary Joan Ptacin, and Linda Schultz carried away the prize in the "Gong Show." 
The final event of Oktoberfest '77 was the pre-game party at the Campus View Oubhouse. "It was nice, though not very well­attended,'' Friday remarked, add­ing that this was probably due to all the other activities going on Saturday. 
"I really want to thank all the workers on the St. Mary's Social Commission, Notre Dame Social Commission, and everyone else who helped out," Friday said . "Without their help things wouldn't have gone so smoothly, and without their enthusiasm we couldn't have done it at all." 
Troops surround hijacked airliner 
(Continued from page 1] 
wanted to go to a friendly Mideast 
country, but never specified their 
destination until they reached 
Kuwait. 
The Japanese Foreign Ministry 
said the plane landed at Damascus 
without permission from the air­
port, but Syrian authorities agreed 
to supply fuel, food and water to 
the plane. 
A Foreign Ministry spokesman 
said since the hijackers asked for 
food and fuel, it was assumed they 
would continue their journey in 
quest of a country that would give 
them asylum. 
The 40 persons reported aboard 
included 22 passengers, seven 
crew members, the five hijackers 
and six terrorists freed from Japa­
nese jails in response to the 
hijackers' demand. 
Student Union & Student Government 
wish to thank and congratulate 



LOUISENYE 
for ten years of service, help, cooperation and caring 

I 


I ,, 
I 'J'I ............ ,..·.···~·-···
'•J·--· ----­
I A Comedy of Errors 1­
Shakespeare's merry masquerade. October7, 8, 13, 14, 15
SMC 
l 

ats:OO p.m.
THEATRE 
I 
I

All seats $2.50 
O'Laughlin {$2 Std-Fac-Staff) 
l 

Phone: 284-4176 
I

Auditorium 
SEASON TICKETS STILL AVAILABLE.•••••••.••••••••••• 
4 PLAYS $9 {$7 Std-Fac-Staff} Includes: COMEDY OF ERRORS, CAUCASIAN CHALK CIRCLE, TOUCH OF A POET, and THE 
M~KADO 

-~~--------------~---~­


P.O. BOXQ 
the observer Monday, October 3, 1977 
op1n1on 

The Worst of Du Lac 
.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.--.~tom byrne 
Since the University's announce­
ment of its intention to make 
sweeping changes in the disciplin­
ary process, the du Lac student 
manual has finally begun to receive 
some much-needed scrutiny from 
the student body. Students, of 
course, have always been aware 
that a number of rules exist which 
they are obliged to follow if they 
wish to remain on campus. Yet it is 
unlikely a great many have read the 
actual sections of du Lac which 
define these rules and outline the 
procedures followed when students 
face disciplinary action. The 
prolonged debate over the judicial 
process will hopefully induce a few 
more people to read du Lac and 
learn something more about Notre 
Dame. 

Tho5e who are familiar with du 
Lac and its provisions are acquaint­
ed with the shortcomings which 
abound throughout the rules, regu­
lations and disciplinary proced­
ures. What follows is a brief 
description of parts of du Lac which 
merit special recognition because 
of their acute need for revision. 
l. "All vloladons are at the dlsposldon of the Dean of Stu­dents." 
There is nothing inherently wrong with this statement, but the scope of the rules and regulations the dean is charged with enforcing is far too broad. lncludeit as violations of University rules are the use of marijuana in the hall and all parietals violations, an arrange­ment that ignores the discretion each rector requires to administer discipline properly in his hall. Many rectors, especially those with more experience, regularly handle parietals and minor marijuana of­fenses themselves, in direct con­flict with du Lac. Newer rectors, however, tend to abide more strictly by the rules and refer all violations to dean of students, creating a serious inequity between halls. a change in status of parietals and the use of marijuana to hall offenses would remedy this situation considerably, while also reducing the caseload of the dean of students. Rectors would still reserve the right, as in the current du Lac, to send repeated or flagrant violations to ·the dean if they choose. 
2. "Students subject to disciplin­ary acdon may choose to have their cases considered by the rector, provided the rector accepts•••••• They will otherwise have their cases considered by the Hall Board." 
DOONESBURY 
lOOk, HAWS, 
I'M NOTALONE! 
THe POU5 SIIXAJ ~ HALf 11£ {)»J­: yzy's 1'6AIN5T o 71E: TKEATY! 
I 


Perhaps no other part of du Lac is in more urgent need of attention than this description of the hall judicial boards, listed under the heading "Disciplinary Proced­ures." A survey of the residence halls would indicate that less than four halls have anything resembl­ing such a system. Lack of cooperation from the rectors and the small number of violations occurring in some halls are the principal causes for the weakness of the j-boards. In most halls, rectors handle all disciplinary mat­ters themselves, and many stu­dents are unaware that the option of a j-board hearing exists. As it presently stands, du Lac almost ridicules the disciplinary system in the halls. 
3. "When funcdonlng properly, the dormitory vlsltatJon programs should be regulated by students." 
This seemingly satirical lang­uage appears as a partof University rule governing parietals and exem­plifies one of du Lac's most obvious difficulties. The University's more controversial rules, such. as those regarding parietals, sexuality and alcohol use, are accompanied by elaborate justifications for these policies often at such length that it becomes challenging to separate rule from rhetoric. Besides leading to confusion, it may also convey the impression that a community con­sensus has been achieved on matters like parietals, which is anything but the case. 
4. "The Uulvenlty reserves the right to transfer a student's resl· dence." 
Lurking innocently among the University regulations, this provis­ion has a colorful history of abuse that certifies its status as du Lac's biggest loophole. Rectors, in particular, cherish this authority, , 
since they can banish uncoopera­tive students from their halls without accusing them of any specific offense, effectively side­stepping all disciplinary proced-. ures. This power was exercised several times last year, the most publicized episode being the case of the "Sorin 7," who were transferred right off campus. 
S. "These rules and reguladons apply to students on and off campus." 
Although there is thankfully no wording to this effect in the current edition of du Lac, the University has proposed the addition of this power to the dean of student's already impressive repertoire. If successful, the amendment would 
by Garry Trudeau 
I TllJ(KiiiT lUI IAJIICJI 15 IAHY I RIW OFF A 
FEW COPIES OF THE PANAMA 1REiflY ON MY WAY OVT TO ~C­1/CE 7WA'I! 

give the dean the power to punish off-campus students who violate University rules concerning alcohol abuse, marijuana, and premarital sex. 
du Lac is interesting because it furnishes some insight into the University-'s view of its relationship with the students: Notre Dame is a family, headed by parental admin­istrators and composed chiefly of impressionable young adults who need a great deal of guidance. Discipline is accordingly regarded as an administrative process and procedures followed are only de­signed to transmit a sense of fairness to the accused student. ,The ultimate truth of the system is that if the University wants a student expelled, ther'! is nothing he can do about it. 
*The Observer 
an independl'nl sludl'nl newspapl'r serving notre damp and st. mary·., 
The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College It does not necessarily reflect the policies of either institutrbn The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries. opinions and letters are the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the commumty, and letters are encouraged to promote the free expression of varying opinions on campus. 
EDITORIAL BOARD 
Marti Hogan Martha Fanning Hob Hnnk Kathy Mills Maureen Flynn Barb Bre1tenstem Jean Powlt>v Katie Kerwin Barb Langhenry Paul Steven~on Pat Colt> David O'Kpefe 
Editor-in-Chief Managing Editor Asst Managing Ed Executive Editor Editorial Editor Exec. News Editor 
St. Mary's Editor 
News Editor News Editor Sports Editor Special Projects Ed. Features Editor 
Loyalty sold for tickets 
Dear Editor: 
I am writing to Mr. Gryp to remind him to send my USC football tickets as soon as possible. Until I read of the Student Union policy conceroing work and reward, I was under the mistaken impres­sion that I donated my time because I enjoyed being a member of the Marching Band. Fortunately my eyes have been opened and I 
await his offer so that I, too, might sell loyalty. I spend 20 hours per week learning various marching routines and memorizing music without any financial renumeration (as do the rest of the band, and many other volunteer groups). Doesn't this qualify me for an option to buy homecoming football tickets?--especially since I've never seen one of the Union commission­ers dripping with sweat or freezing to oeath while carrying a thirty-five pound ledger book during their donated time. 
If the members ofthe Union (and· I doubt that more than a handful actually feel this way) believe they need some reward to keep their loyalty or maintain their efficient operating level, then there is something wrong with either the Union's organization or with those members themselves. Or doesn't old-fashioned pride count 
anymore? David 0. Childers Jr. 


Loyal fans criticized 
Dear Editor:. I was very much amazed by the ND spirit shown by the fans at last 
Saturday's Michigan State game. I would like to give a hand to all those people who so kindly booed some of the ND players at the game. I hope these people realize that these players are also their fellow classmates. It is time the football players stopped being so criticized for their mistakes by the "loyal fans." I always believed "loyal fans" cheered their team on, no matter what happened, but at ND I see this is not the rule. 
The football team is composed of people, who but for their size and athletic prowess are just like every­one else. It is time football players were treated more like people with feelings and personalities and Jess like football players. No one has the license to boo a fellow student on the playing field or off. So next time one of them makes a human mistake or doesn't have an excep­tiona) game, as their fans, we should unite and cheer them on even stronger the next time. 
Remember, football players are 
people, too, and ~he uniform personal aura, and Notre Dame's doesn't change them many way. potent and prestigious public aura, 
• Paul A. Beguirlstaln the public at large, viewing Miss AnIto Bryant Bryant's propaganda boost in the 
light of the conjunction of these two 
Concert? 
• Dear Edltor:­Miss Anita Bryant, wholesome All-American ex-runner-up Miss America, purveyor of orange juice, presumed heterosexual political crusader plugging dykes wherever allowed against the rising tide of civil rights for homosexuals, will apparently perform at the Notre Dame ACC during the students' absence over midsemester break. I believe it is accurate to say that Miss Bryant has acquired a politi­cal aura, abhorrent to some, reas­suring to others. Notre Dame, whose president headed the U.S. Civil Rights Com­mission, whose Civil Rights Center, dedicated presumably to the progressive extension of civil rights, is a major research reposi­t~y for civiL rights scholars, has agreed to rent Miss Bryant its hall. Apparently the University feels 
that this action is merely a business deal, divorced from political impli­cations, which does not necessarily constitute official endorsement -of Miss Bryant's non-professional political views. By the same rea­soning, if such Is the University's reasoning, Notre Dame's facilities should as readily be rented with equal equanimity to the Ku Klux Klan, the American Nazi Party, or Richard Nixon, should any of these people, to name but a few, wish to stage a (presumably non-political) performance, and have money enough to rent the hall. Providing facilities for such performances would presumably not constitute endorsement of their political views either, and would, furthermore, advance the cause of freedom of speech (to those who can afford to rent the hall). 
Given Miss Bryant's current 
auras in her appearance at Notre Dame, may discriminate less finely between the University's locally stated neutrality and the simpler implications of Miss Bryant's pub­licized performance here. 
The potential demagoguery asso­ciated with Miss Bryant's appear· ance, and its potential impact on the general public's already often misinformed impression of the University's nature and views, seem inescapable. 
The letter of Notre Dame's official position may be literally neutral, but the spirit in which Notre Dame avoids the political implications of this impending event seems questionable. I won­der would Notre Dame extend equal facilities for highly-publi­cized events to the Ku Klux Klan, the American Nazi's, or Nixon, to name but a few? 
Name withheld by request 

------------------------------------------~------~-------------------~--~~~----~-------.~-.~--~-.~ 
"1 
Refugee reports : 
Ugandan terror stories 
NAIROBI, Kenya [AP]--Jacob Mugisha is a 36-year-old Ugandan refugee now living in the Kenyb.n capital of Nairobi. There is little to mark him out from the thousands of other Ugandans who have sought sanctuary in Kenya to escape the tyranny of the rule of Idi Amin. 
But Mugisha says that until the end of his days he will carry a burden of guilt from which there is no escape. 
Two and a half years ago he spent more than one month in one of Amin's prisons, he says, and there he was forced to batter to death more than 20 of his fellow prisoners, one of them a friend. 
Mugisha was brought into con­tact with The Associated Press by another Ugandan refugee. He pro­duced a written account of his experiences and this was expanded upon by him orally during ques­tioning. 
Travel to Uganda by news cor­respondents is sharply restricted and thus independent confirmation of his account is not available. Nor could the exact details of prison life in Uganda be confirmed through other Ugandan refugees here. 
But Mugisha's story is consistent with the stories of terror told by many other Ugandans who have fled. 
Various international human rights agencies have estimated that as many as 100,000 or more Ugandans have been brutally killed since Amin seized power in a military coup in January 1971. There have been persistent reports that one common method of execu­tion is for Amin"s police and security men to force prisoners to kill each other. 
Nobody knows how many Ugan­dans have died in this manner. But Mugisha says that at the prison of Amin's much-feared Public Safety Unit (PSU) on the Kampala-Jinja road, about three miles from the capital of Kampala, it is the most favored form of execution. 
The PSU, the military police and Amin's secret police, the State Research Bureau, are the three organizations of terror through which Amin maintains his power. They are staffed almost entirely by Moslems from the southern Sudan and A min's own minority Kakwa tribe. 
Mugisha said he was arrested by the PSU on Apri120, 1975, while on vacation from his job as a clerk at Barclay's Bank in Kampala. He said he was accused of helping to steal 100,000 shillings, about $20,000, from the bank. 
He said he was taken to the PSU "death camp" at Naguru and put in a cell in the block where he claimed the killings are carried out. He described the block as an oblong, black building with a courtyard in the middle, surround­ed by a compound cut off from the rest of the prison by a wire fence. 
After being taken to the cell, Mugisha said, he was then beaten to unconsciousness. Two days later, he said, he was selected to be killed that night along with three other prisoners. He named them as Fred Musoke, Tom Galabuzi and a Mr. lutymanga. 
"One of the cells in the block is reserved for those who have been chosen to die," he said. "We were taken to the cell and at about 9:30 
p.m. the camp killer Col. Myanzi came with two policemen. They started calling us out one by one into the courtyard and then the compound. Musoke was the first to be called. Then they called my name. 
"I went out and was told I had been called to kill Musoke with a heavy, thick iron bar. I looked round and saw police with machine guns guarding us. I was shocked to see that I was going to have to kill 
myfriend. 
"I was ordered by the killer in a loud voice to beat him on the head. That's what I did. I beat him to death. Then they told me to put him in a Land-Rover. 
"Then they brought Galabuzi who was employed by the Ministry of Works. I did the same thing to him and put him in the Land-Rover. After that they also brought lutymanga and I also killed him," he said. 
Each ofthe men, he said, had his hands tied behind his back and his legs bound together. He beat them to death as they lay on the ground, he said. 
"Before I left Naguru on May 24, 1975, I killed more than 20 people," Mugisha said. "Every night I was killing one or two people. There were other prisoners doing the same job. But I did the most. 
"Nobody can know what it is to have the choice of either killing or being killed. I hate to think what I have done." 
He described how he was forced to execute his victims: On the instructions of the prison guards he 

EARN OVER s600 AMONTH FOR THE REST OF YOUR SENIOR YEAR. Ifyou are interested in math, physics or engineering, the Navy has a program you should know about. It's called the NUPOC-Collegiate Program (NUPOC is short for Nuclear Propulsion Officer Candidate), and if you qualify it can pay you as much as $611 a month for the remainder ofyour senior year. Then after 16 weeks of Officer Candidate School, you will receive an additional year ofadvanced technical education, education that would cost thousands in a civilian school, but in the Navy we pay you. And at the end ofthe year oftraining, you'll receive a $3,000 cash bonus. It isn't easy. Only one ofevery six applicants will be selected, and there are fewer than 300 openings. But those who make it find themselves in one ofthe most elite engineering training programs anywhere. With unequalled hands-on responsibility, a $24,000 salary in four years, plus travel, medical benefits and education opportunities. For more details on this program, ask your placement officer when a Navy representative will be on campus, or call the Officer Program Office listed below; or send your resume to Navy Nuclear Officer Program, Code 312, 4015 Wilson Blvd., Arlington, Va. 22203. The NUPOC-Collegiate Program. It can do more than help you finish college; it can lead to an exciting opportunity. 
OFFICER PROGRAMS OFFICE, NAVY RECRUITING DISTRICT, 312-657-2169 



NAVY OFFICER. 
IT'S NOTJUST AJOB, IT'S AN ADVENTURE. 
would carry them from the court­yard to the compound and throw them on the ground. Then with the heavy iron bar, he said, he would hit them with all his strength on the back of the neck. After that he was ordered to batter his victims' faces into a pulp so they could not be recognized, he said. 
More than 200 people were killed in this way during his time in the camp, Mugisha estimated. 
He said his worst memory is of killing Musoka, whom he described as being 17 years old. Musoke was accused of stealing money, but denied this. 
After his month as a camp executioner, Mugisha said, he was taken before a court in Kampala and sentenced to one year in Luzira Prison after pleading guilty to stealing the money. 
Before he completed his sen­tence, he said, he was able to raise 5000 shillings, about $600, to buy his freedom. He fled to neighbor­ing Rwanda but returned last year. 



---_=--'_____ ---.---~ --~·~­
Monday, October 3, 1977
the observer 

Skytrain travelers welcome new 'cheap' airfare 
LONDON [AP]--Freddie Laker is Lola Aglialoro, 54, said after we winning over the "mums" and the. boarded the Laker Skytrain in New businessman as well as long-York. haired, backpacking students with "That didn't bother me, and it his bargain basement jet service turned out not to be true," she between New York and London. said. 
"My children told me I would be "I've made two good friends the oldest person on the flight," tonight," said passenger Robert 

Of course. aU employees at the National Security Agency have certain things in common: they are civilian employees of the Department of Defense; they are engaged in technical projects vital to our nation's communications security or a foreign intelligence production mission; and they aU enjoy the benefits that accompanyFederal employment. However. the differences between our career opportunl ttes are just as interesting as their similarities. For example •.. 
TO THE ELECTRONIC ENGINEER (BS/MS): An NSA career means delving into unique projects which can span every phase of the R&D cycle. An engineer may design. develop, test and manage cpntracts on communications. recording. and information storage devices and systems whose capacities and speeds are still considered futuristic in most quarters. 

.
... 
J .J •• .• J. "' •••• 
NEW IN SOUTH BEND 
1 

COSI·MO'S HAIR DESIGNs· 
FOR MEN & WOMEN 
COSIMO, ROSE & SUE ARE YOUR HAIR DESIGNERS 
for APPT. call 277·1875 Mon· Sat 8 to 6 
"tN~~t to.. the. D~tiller)! ... 
was Josephine Murphy, a white­haired, 74-year-old woman travel­ing from Augusta, Ga., to visit relatives in Ireland. 
"This has been the most orderly flight I'ye ever been on," she said as we stood in a long customs line at the end of the flight. 
To get aboard the Skytrain I first checked the ticket. availability through a recorded message and then took a leisurely subway ride to Laker's Queens, N.Y., terminal. I bought the 107th ticket of the day--the plane has 345 seats--and spent ten minutes in the terminal, including checking my suitcase. 
Bergin works to improve the Arts 
Dr. Thomas P.Bergin, dean of Continuing Education, participated this past weekend in a national conference, "The Arts, Education and Americans, Inc." at Columbus. Bergin joined David Rockefeller, Jr., national chairman, in leading the discussion of a recent publication, "Coming To ·Our Senses." 
The purpose of the conference, the first of several to be held in the nation, was to obtain reactions and suggestions on the publication of the National Arts Committee, and to serve as a catalyst to improve existing arts in education programs. 
Bergin is former chairman of the Indiana Arts Commission and has held several major positions in national organizations. 
~ 
p,.,,.,,, 

~lt~S·II 
October 3 & 4 
engineering aud. 
7, 9:15, ]1:30pm $1.00 

Brush. "People are more open, more communicative than on other flights." 
Mrs. Aglialoro, of New York City, had to travel to England on short notice because of a death in the family. She would have had to pay $675, she said, if the 5238.25 Skytrain fare was not available. 
Brush, 49, was traveling from Syracuse, N.Y., to Italy for a business conference. 
I was probably more typical of the 294 Laker passengers on board the flight. Unsure when I could get away for a three-week vacation, I was too late to get a charter flight or a cheaper advanced-purchase ticket. I decided to turn to the Skytrain service, which is first­come-first-served on the day of the flight. 
Laker, who began Skytrain ser­vice last Monday, says Brush and Mrs. Aglialoro are the kind of passengers he's looking for--the businessman, the holiday tourist and the person who must make an unexpected trip, as well as young people with no time committments. 
A look around the inside of the DClO jetliner indicated that per­haps half the passengers were over 30 years old. Among the calmest 
AN 
ts 
c 
z 
0 
m 



Monday, October 3, 1977 

the observer 

Drugs linked to increase in rural crime rate 
Indianapolis [AP]--Serious crime appears to be increasing in once­peaceful rural areas oflndiana, and some experts say that drugs are invariably a common denominator. 
State  Police  Lt.  Oscar  Gates,  
pointmg  to  a  series  of  widely  
publicized  murders  in  recent  

months over a five-county area northwest of Indianapolis, main­tains that there is probably a drug tie-in in nearly every unsolved murder in rural Indiana. 
Gates, who is assistant to the commander of the inv:stigation division, admits the persons who committed such crimes may not have been acting under the influ­ence of drugs at the time. 
However, he says, " ...the sus­pect always turns out to have been a user, a dealer or whatever." 
His opinion is backed up by Edmund W. Grosskopf, assistant professor of criminology at Indiana State University, who says the drug connection fits in with the growth of rural crime and the ability of those who commit the crimes to elude detection in a rural setting. 
"For one thing, you can attribute this crime growth to improvements in the means of transportation," says Grosskopf, who believes many criminals have learned that drugs can be dealt, crimes committed and even the bodies of murder victims dumped in settings where the probability of detection is small. 
''The fact that crime is so non-detectable in the country is one reason why I expect it grows there," he says. 
Grosskopf points to the hundreds of miles of country roads and 
URD offers free legal advice 
by Frank Laurino 

The University Referrals Divi­sion (URD) of the Notre Dame Legal Aid and Defender Associa­tion (NDLADA) provides free legal research, counselling, and repre­sentation to eligible Notre Dame and St. Mary's students. 
The service, which operates out of the Law School basement, is practically unknown to students, claims Richard Cahill, a third year law student who is a member of the group. 
"We deal exclusively with stu­dents," explains Cahill. "We try to assist them in many areas, helping the student find out where he stands on legal matters." 
The URD deals with a wide range of cases, including disputes with off-campus housing leases and businesses in the South Bend area. It also handles problems students might have with employers, con· tracts, personal torts, auto acci­dents, and police agencies. 
''We get cases where students get arrested for public, intoxica­tion," said Cahill. "We also have to us for help." 
Cahill emphasized the necessity of student eligibility requirements for each case handled. "Every student who comes to us must fill out a financial form in addition to a case interview form," he said. "Because of legislation restric­tions, the student must prove he is unable to afford an attorney." 
According to Cahill, the group might involve itself in a malpractice suit if that restriction is violated. "The URD is unable to accept a fee-generating case because it would take away business 'from attorneys in the city," he said. 
Cahill stat 'that "most students would qua!if, He added that the URD and lm; South Bend Public Defender's Onice often refer cases to each other. "We both know we can be of ser" ·e to each other," he said. 
Many stud ts have little know­ledge of th... ,. ega! rights, accord­ing to Cahill. "They also don't know how to function within admin­istrative systems, be it an Indiana Court or the university administra­
many instances where a student . tion," he added. 
gets an out-of-state traffic ticket after a football weekend." 
The URD occasionally handles defenses of lawsuits against stu­dents. "This will happen, for example, when a student gets in a auto accident and has no insur­ance, explained Cahill. "In that case, we hope the student will turn 
Cahill stressed the importance of the URD research into legal ques­tions. "That'·· why we're here: to appear with a student during a hearing for disciplinary action. They can, however, advise a student before the hearing. "We like to involve ourselves with other student problems, however," said Cahill. 
explor"  y areas of state laws  
and UHiVer  regulations," Cahill  
added.  goal  is  to  solve  
problems,  , <?O to court."  
!Accordi11,  ·niversity policy,  
a member c  DLADA can not  

Those "problems" could arise, he hypothesized, 'rom situations where a student arrested for a minor misdeJTl .. ·nor is denied counsel. "This , 'ppens through 
interpretation of th  Constitution,"  
he explained.  
''The  court  dl."t  ·mines  which  

cases merit the rig!-' to a lawyer. If a student finds 1imself in a situation where ht ·• not awarded a public defender.\\ ±t does he do? He should come co us," Cahill added. 
The URD will conduct lectures and proposes television/radio spots to help inform the ND-SMC com­munity of their legal rights, stated Cahill. "We also plan to publish a handbook on student rights, legal questions and procedures," he added. 
The service is manned by second and third law students. Third year students are allowed by Indiana state legislation to represent clients in court. The URD is composed of both volunteer law students and those who work for graduate level credit. 
The NDLADA is operated from 9 to 5 p.m. daily. Students may call 6704 or 7795. 
thousands of local residents that a handful of deputies are frequently responsible for safeguarding. It usually takes longer for police to respond to an emergency in sparse­ly populated areas, he says, and such rural country--with little poverty--is often an inviting target for wrong-doers. "Many people who are on drugs cannot hold a 
job," added Gates. "They are dependent on the drugs and will do what they have to to get them." 
Gates cited six recent murder cases in the area west and north­west of Indianapolis to illustrate the upsurge in violent crime in the area. He strongly suspects a drug connection in most of them: 
-The February murders of four Parke County brothers, for which Roger C. Drollinger, 24, of Wayne­town, was recently convicted, while three other suspects await trial. Drollinger had a history of drug arrests and convictions. 
-The March slaying of a Wolcott trucking executive, who was killed by a shotgun blast as he drove along U.S. 231 in White County. There have been no arrests in the case. 
-The discovery of the body of a missing Purdue University co-ed along a Tippecanoe County lovers' lane in June. In that unsolved case, police have no information that the victim was ever involved with drugs. 
-The Execution-style slaying of two Putnam County youths in July. Drug apparatus was found near their bodies, and police speculate the murderers in the case were seeking either drugs or money. 
-The shooting death of a Montgo mery County farmer on property he farmed in August. In that case, police arrested a suspect who has a record of drug violations. 
-The unsolved strangulation death of a 30-year-old Clinton County mother of three whose body was discovered in the trunk of her car in Lafayette in August. No arrest has been made in the case. 
Observer promotions announced 
Phil Cackley and Marian Ulicny senior staff reporter. have bl."en named news assistants Dave Rumbach, a sophomore, for the r)bscrver. Cackley, a junior was appointed as a senior staff 
reporter. Peggy McGuire, afrc .)uuth Bend, is a senior staff 
senior, a d Kathy Connelly, a reporter and-copyreader. Ulicny, sophomon. are now staff repor­also a junior from South Bend, is a 
ters. 
HPC Meeting Tuesday, Oct. 4 
6:30 om 
..,_u_n_t_te_d_wa____.u
..... Cavanaugh 
REMINDER: communitv service commissioners are asked to attend with hall presidents 
RE: united way fund drive -packetsand information. 
----------------------------------------------------------~ 
NOTICE LOST: An eco .mics notebook Sunday THE NAVY GAME· Who needs tickets 
. night at Stepa1 ntP . Sept., 25. Must for the Navy game? I Do!!!! 2 GA Typmg-Call Carolyn, 232-9061. have-call :Joh , 17i i. tickets. Call M"artha, 1715, 8086. 

Classified Ads 
rnA~vouR~on~~~n;Fa;~------------------w~;;2MN~;llit~Pa~;~v~ 
Tree Kit ". All necessary materials won't tie here tfley will Cali" Bob included. Great gift idea. Call Cathy 234-0682. ' · ' ----------:-------------------------­Murray (4) 5454. WANl ED ------------------f _you have a VSC t1cket to sell •. call Tom Feifar 
---------:----------HELP!!! Need ride to Boston or vicinity v11chael. (Ev.en If you don't have a ticket Nobody does it like you do. Send the 
Accurate fast typmg -Mrs. Donoho, PLEASE HELP-Desp rately need ride to for Oct. Break. Must know before Oct. 8. to sell call Michael). 1054. beer-I'm being violated. 232-0746. Hours, 8 am to 6 pm. St. Louis-Southern J!l. area Fri. Oct. 7. Call John, 6657. Will share expenses. -------------.-----Love, Sammy -----:----7 --7 --:---Will pay, drive. Call Julie, 852'7. -------:------------Southern Cal vs. NO football tickets-Oct. P.S. Why'd ya have to be so good?
U. of. Michigan grad m ~us~1an w.111 tutor------------------Needed: 1-4 t1x for Army game. Call 22 .. Sports tour 3050 W. 7th Stree~l L.A.-----------------­Russlan stuaents. Studied 1n Len1ngrad. Need six GA Clemson tix. Cali Leo. Maria, 1318. Calif, 90005. 213-384-J951. W1l pay Beautiful Blue Eyes, you're the greatesCall 683-433? or 233-9948 and asl< for 287-7051. ------------------$$$. Also could use 4 t1x for any home and I'm the luckiest!! Happy 13 months. Melanie Lew1s. ------------------Need 3 GA tix to Air Force or Navy. Call game. Love, 3-8-1. ------------------Need six Southern Cal tix Mark Jim 1185 -----------------------------------­
MINSTRELS FOR RENT 287-7051. · ' ____:_______________ Several _yqung_ men for campus sales Donner Let.us serenade ~omeone you love. Yo!!r ------------------Help!! Make two girls happy: Give' em a work. Thl~ Will nqt be door to .door. 1can'i believe you did it! c~o1ce of mus1c, sung below . their Want$$$?-Need So. Cal. vs. N 0 football ride to Toledo area Oct. T. Threse, 6239. Contact MISS. Eddie at the Kmghts -JAD w1ndow. Perfect for any occas1on. tix Oct. 22-Sports tour at 3050 w. 7th------------------272-0321, or 272-8471. -----------------­
CHEAP. Call 7442 between 11 am and Street, L.A. Calif. 90005. Call 213-384-Wanted: 4 USC tickets. Will pay good------------------CALL MICHAELI!III (see wanteds for noon, M-F. 1951. Could also use 4 tix for any home bucks. Call Jim at 1419. FOR SALE details). ------------------game. -----------------------------------­
NEED QUAPTY TYP.ING? Ex.ecutarY,, ------------------Need 2 Southern Cal. Tix. Beth, For sale: 2 Army tix. Call Chris aft. 6, Dear Archway Cookies, K.C., In Inc. Pr!)fess1onal Typ1ng Services IBM Wanted: 5 USC tickets. Call Paul at 1424. 272-2340. 291-1741. kers, Bakers Grocery'sCqr~ect1ng Seiectrlcs. 85 cen!~ per page.------------------------------------------------------Morriessey Crew -Thanks for m1n1mum. 911 232-0898 When you Wanted: 4 GA tickets for Southern Cal. Need US$$? Sell me 2 GA USC tix. Call For sale-One season student ticket. Call B-day! want the best . Will pay good bucks. Call 1423, ask for frank 277-4826. .Larry, 8364. Liz ------------------Mike. -------------------------------------------------------­
~XPERI~NCED TYPIST. For more ------------------Wanted: SC tickets. Will pay premium For sale: Alto aax mint Gibson Heritage Girls, today is Kevin J's 21st and he's mformat1on, please call 272-2819. Wanted: Six GA tickets to USC. Call price. Call collect 714-498-3000. with case. Beat offer for either. Call tired of filling the virginity role. Call him ---------------:---Jeanne at 4-4001. ---------:----------288-3706. an~ see If Slleboygan is as good as he 
Notre Dame Judo Club.Anyone mteres-------------------Wanted: 1 or 2 _g1rls to sublet Campus ------------------·claims! (8275).ted call 8719 or 8711. Need 4 USC GA tix. Will pay$$, call Ron View AP.t. with S'oph. transfer student. Audio Outlet: Top name stereo equip------------------­------------------1423. Call Gail, 277-1441. ment wholes~le. Call 7781. .Bonomo's 
------------------------------------------------------; The weekend went by too fast. See y'all
Wanted: Desperately need 1 student Kim needs: 3 GA tickets to USC. Call Pandoras has new and used books for! for Turkey Day.
ticket for USC-NO game! Will pay$. 4-5241. many~D.classesAND atwoforonesalei SB 
Call 4-4124. --------------------on tlie1r literature books. Open 11 to 7'-----------------­
LOST AND FOUND ------------------Pleasuity me .... missed the last roll call daily. , Krista 
Wanted: Desperately need 6 GA tix to for HDcor ting ticket package. Haven't------------------· Say hi to Bonnie and Jimmy for me.LOST : GenetIcs Textbook. PI ease call any home game. Call Chris at 1158. seen ~H' in three mo!)ths..Need one · SB 289-0175. -----------------USC t1cke, or never Will aga1n. Dave, 1-----------------­
------------------Desperate: need up to six USC tickets -1158. Warmest thanks to Stahn, Bear, Tree,
LOST: Brown leath"r wallet near the will _11ay excellent price. Call Frank------------------Sex, T. Coil McNally Vii, and especially
Eng. Aud. Nedd dnvers license and ID 277-2576. Want1d: need one Southern Cal ticket. to C.C.C., Fabulous Farrah, and the one for Football games. Please return call ------------------Will r,ay $$$.Call 7781. PERSONALS and only K.D. for making my 20th B-day3506. Need ride to Bowling Green weekend of--.:...------------.,---the best ever. ---:---------------;--Oct. 8. Call Anne-7835. Need one USC ticket will pay top price. SueS., . , . _ Steve 
LOST. Umbrella brown "nd. off-white. ------------------Call Jeff at 283-8619. How does It feel to stnke out? Were-----------------­
Call John 1848 (around m1dn1ght). Need four GA USC tickets. I'll top all------------------even. Thanks, do it again. -LO-ST----SM-C----:---:--t --C-FH-other offers. Call Brian 272-5843. Needed: 5 GA tix for USC. Call Telanda-MOL 
, : 0 ne c1ass nng,m11as1 • ------------------4-5745. -----------------­
78. Reward. 4-5143, Cathy. Need tix for any home game. Call Sharon------------------Andrle-Breath -------:------------1261. I WILL BE FOREVER GRATEFUL TO Sorry I didn't make it to church but I had FOUND: On s1dewa[k, 1976 Holy_ Cr.oss ------------------YOU If you sell me a pair of GA tickets practice. Better luck next time. Preparatory class nng. Call Den1se, Desperately need 3 GA tickets for Techfor the USC game. My parents want to · B 4-5402. game. Boti 8405. come u-p and-cheer for Old Notre Dame. ------------------­------------------------------------Will pay$$$$$$$. Call Mary 1313. A friendly hello to freight train .. Keep on 
LOST: One set of keys at or near USC student or GA tix wanted. West------------------trucking and don't let the flags fly.LaFortune Student Center on Thurs. Call Coast clients will pay premium. 272-7360Desperately need 1 USC ticket. Call Ron, -------'----------­Bill, 233-3743. after 6 pm. 3313. Roomate for saie! Very cheap. Dial3319 
---------:--------------:-----------------------------and ask for Gordon. Any offer accepted.FOUND: Mens l~ather Jacket. Call Wanted: Desperately need 1 USC ticket. Wanted: One student USC ticket. Call -----------------....1' 679-4955 and Identify. Call 4104. Chuck, 1436. John-­
------------------Congrats on Med School!!!! We're 
Two need ride to C I eve land Oct. 7. Call prottd of you!
..... .. .. , . 

W.W.'s 
•. j •• '·-.' 




tb& Observer Monday, October 3, 1977 
Irish offense rambles for 315 yards rushing 
Notre Dame dominates MSU 16-6 
by Bob Keen Sports Writer 

The last time the Michigan State Spartans entered Notre Dame Sta­dium, they shocked the Irish 10-3. However, if State fans expected history to repeat itself on Saturday, they left bitterly disappointed as Notre Dame dominated its home opener en route to a 16-6 victory before a capacity crowd of 59,075. 
With Joe Montana starting as Irish quarterback for the first time in almost two years, Notre Dame's offense continued to execute in the explosive manner which character­
ized last week's fourth quarte~exhibition against Purdue. On th first series of the game Montana fired a perfect pass to tight end Ken MacAfee covering 43 yards, pushing the Irish deep into Spartan territory. Eight plays later Notre Dame had a first down on the 
t 
Michigan State three yard line but fullback Dave Mitchell's fumble prevented the Irish from takinthe early lead. 1 
Notre Dame mounted another threat after Randy Harris.on, behind some excellent blocking, returned a Spartan punt 25 yards to the 22 yard line. However, State's Mark Anderson stepped in front of Irish placekicker Dave Reeve moved into third place on Notre Dame's all-time scoring list, passing Gus Dorais who played from 1910-13. The Notre Dame specialist now has 203 points in his fuur years as Irish kicker. [Photo by john Calcutt] jerome Heavens scampered for 136 yards in 23 carries in Notre Dame's 16-6 triumph over the Spartans. The junior fullback now has 326 yards this season. [Photo by john Calcutt] 

MacAfec to snare an errant Mon-At this point Notre Dame's defense  Jerome Heavens.  
tana aerial. It was only the first of stiffened and the Spartans settled  Notre Dame opened its scoring  
three interceptions for th..: sopho­for three points as Hans Nielsen  early in the second quarter. After  
more standout from Akron, Ohio split the uprights with a 38 yard  an interception a!'d subsequent 25  
who continually stifled Notre Dame field goal giving State the lead.  yard return by Irish linebacker  
scoring chances all afternoon. Neither team could provide any  Leroy Leopold, filling in for the  
Michigan State then marched 56 more scoring during the first  injured Doug Becker, place-kicker  
yards, with the help of two fine stanza, although the Irish came  Dave Reeve booted a 42 yard field  
receptions by tight end Mark close when a Montana pass slipped  goal to knot the score.  
Brammer, to the Irish 21 yard line. through the fingers of a wide open  Later in the second period  
Tim Bourret ~===:=================:===========================:=============:==========='===========================:=============  Mitchell burst over right tackle for a nine yard touchdown run to  
finally give the Irish the lead, 10-3.  
The Greatest Fans?  The scoring drive covered 56 yards in just six plays, the majority of  
which came from Heaven's 24 yard  
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::·:-:·:·:·:·:·:::·:::':':·:::::·:':::::::::::::::::::::::::·Bone Is Briefs  sc~~1:~~~n~~e o~ts~i~~~:iJ•s score  
I have either seen or listened to every Notre Dame football game since  assured Notre Dame of the victory  
. 1964. In those 13 years! have been proud to be a member of the fraternity  since it was the only touchdown to  
of Notre Dame backers. Due to our penchant for upsetting highly-ranked  be scored by either team on the  
teams on national television, our fans famous boisterous support has  day.  
become nationally renowned. Many refer to us as the "greatest student body in the world." We have been known for our loyal support of our  Each team managed one more scoring threat before halftime but  
teams and players for years.  Anderson's second interception  
But, last Saturday, our reputation took a nose dive that wiii take many  and Nielson's missed 48 yard field  
weeks to reestablish. Why did our image plummet so sharply, so quickly?  goal prevented any further scoring.  
For the first time I or my father, an ND fan since 1934, can recall, a Notre  Notre Dame continued its com- 
Dame player was booed by Fighting Irish fans in a regular season game. I  plete dominance over Michigan  
was absolutely disgusted and felt embarrassed to be considered a part of  State in the second half but could  
them.  only manage to add two more field  
Generally speaking. unless the athlete provokes abuse, an amateur  goals by Reeve, the second of  
athlete should never be booed. Professional fans pay the salaries of the·  which soared 51 yards.  
players with their admission charge. Many cite that law of economics as a  Meanwhile, the Irish defense  
rationalization for booing pros. But, there was no excuse for booing Rusty  allowed only three more points in  
Lisch last Saturday.  the final two stanzas to secure  
If Lisch had been "dogging it", or not "giving it his all for our lady"  Notre Dame's third victory of the  
when he had played for Notre Dame there might have been a justification  season, 16-6. This allowed the  
for the action. But, Lisch has be.en far from anything less than a dedicated  Irish to tie an all-time NCAA  
athletf. During the last week of practice, even though he knew he was not  record of 123 consecutive games  
going to start, he still went to practice extra early to work on his skills.  without being shutout, also held by  
Some athletes would have given up after losing a starting berth in  Oklahoma.  
mid-season.  Overall the entire defense per- 
Lisch has not done badly in his appearances this year. In fact he has a·  formed extremely well but middle  
<;uperior pass completion percentage to that of Joe Montana, the current  linebacker Bob Golic's play which  
number-one signal caller. But, this is not an article concerning who I feel  included nine unassisted and 18  
i<; the better quarterback. There are many more areas, statistical and .­ total tackles along with one inter- 
intangible, that should be evaluated when discussing a quarterbacks'  ception was nothing short of sensa­ 
performance. Montana is outstanding in these and he has earned his position. My point is that Lisch has done nothing to deserve to be  tiona!. Other standouts include defensive tackle Ken Dike who  
embarrassed in front of 60,000 fans, six of whom were members of his  registered three sacks of the quar­ 
immediate family.  terbc.ck and the entire defensive  
I like to think that the majority of those who booed on Saturday were  backfield which picked off four  
intoxicated and were not fully cognizant of their actions. I also like to  Spartan passes and held its explo­ 
'1clicve that the booing was predominantly from the non-student section of  sive passing attack at bay through- 
the stands. But, after viewing the national replay on the C.D. Chesley  out the afternoon.  
network yesterday morning it was apparent that the student body was at  On offense Notre Dame continu­ 

the very least a prime instigator of the abuse. · ally failed to reach the Spartan 
True Notre Dame fans would have cheered Lisch's appearance for the endzone often because of nume­temporarily injured Montana, to give him confidence in his ability to rous turnovers including three quarterback the Irish offense. Despite this adversity Lisch took the Irish interceptions and the same number to a firstdown and kept the drive alive. He did the job as instructed, and offumbles. In fact, the Irish had th returned to the sideline when Montana was declared fit for competition football in MSU territory on 14 and was warmly greeted by many of his teammates for a job well done. different occasions but were only 
If you see Lisch in the quad today he will not be walking with his head able to score on four of them. "We down or act like a man mad at the world. He does not hold grudges and is made some mistakes today with not one to degrade anyone. He will continue to work hard and improve on fumbles, dropped passes and we his abilities. let Michigan State out of deep 
Saturday's second quarter demonstration of immaturity by the Notre trouble several times," stated Dame fans resembled action by the professional fans of Philadelphia. Head Coach Dan Devine. "But we Phillies' and Eagles' fans are notorious for their abuse of the hometown blocked and tackled very hard and I players. If Lisch should enter the nationally televised USC game in three agree with Ross Browner who said weeks to the same reception he received last Saturday Notre Dame fans this was 'a great team victory." will be on their way to achieving the bush image the fans of Philadelphia Much of P•wine's . optimism 315 yards on the ground led by a today." Devine stated. "Brian hard-earned 136 yards in 23 carries Boulac (Notre Dame offensive line by Heavens, Mitchell's 95 yards coach), who has been around here a and co-captain Terry Eurick's 55 lot longer than me, says any win yards in just five carries. over Michigan State is a big one 
Obviously, Notre Dame's margin and I agree." of victory did not reflect its Because of the late scheduling statistical dominance of a game switch of the Pittsburgh game, which was never really in doubt. Notre Dame will have two weeks to The steady improvement the get ready for their next game offense has made during the last against Army. "Now we have a two weeks might lead one to week off just as we did last year," believe that it will explode in the Devine explained. "We have just very near future. played four very physical teams 
"Michigan State was a very good and we can really s_tand a week of 
football team and played well rest.'' 

Greg Solman Plugging Up The Middle 
Journal 

Yes, Virginia ... there are signs of life on the Notre Dame offense. The 
game itself was ratl1cr nondescript. Though there ws little doubt 
throughout the game that the Irish would win. costly turnovers kept a 
possible Irish offensive breakthrough at bay ... but there was a glimmer 
of hope in it all. 

The offensive line started executing better than they had, as Coach Brian Buulac expected them to. Notre Dame found itself another running back this weekend in the person of Dave Mitchell. Collecting 91 yards in 25 carries, Mitchell. along with backfield mate Jerome Heavens (23 carries for 136 yards) epitomized a general upsurgence in the Irish offense. In short, the Irish offense was moving the ball better than they had all season Saturday, and one has to hope the tempo will continue to increase for the rest of the season. 
The defense was sterling as usual. and although a lot of ink has been spilled about how strong our defensive ends are, and justifiably so, Irish fans should remember that if Bob Golic weren't there, teams would simply go right up the middle. 
Golic, one of the nation's outstanding linebackers, is playing a season describable through only two words: All-American. Golic continued his All-America play this Saturday, collecting eighteen tackles to take over 
the team lead in that .:ategory. 

Golic has always been a goal-setter. When he came to Notre Dame his freshman year, he was determined to start on the varsity. When Tom Eastman go injured against Northwestern the third game of the season, Golic got his chance. He's been the Notre Dame middle linebacker ever since. 
Last year, Golic wanted to make somebodies All-America team. This, of course, he atso accomplished, as The Sporting News' honorable mention choice for the spot. 
This year, Golic should be everyone's All-American. He's playing with spirit, intensity and leadership, at a pressure-filled position and he's takin all of that pressure with a grain of salt. "I know that I'm going to be out there trying to do my job as best I can whether we're winning or losing. Hopefully, for the rest of the season, we'll be winning." 
With Golic shoring up the middle as he has been, that might be possible, and Golic's talents don't stop on the football field, though he calls it "his greates passion." In fact, Golic's 38 career wins in wrestling made him an All-American in that sport last year. 
In football, Golic has emerged as the Irish's most outstanding defensive player thus far this year, and he attributed this improvement to his loss of 30 pounds from his weight this spring. According to him, it's improved his game to a noticeable degree, both in his quickness and his endurance. · 
Against Michigan State, Golic was upended from his blindside and took 
a flip which left him dazed and frustrated. But for Golic, the worst part of Saturday's game occurred in the stands, when Rusty Lisch was "booed" discernably as he took th field to replace Joe Montana who had lost a shoe and cut the back of his foot. 
''I think it was one of the saddest displays of Notre Dame team support I've ever seen. Fans should be either for or against a team, and any loyalty or disloyalty should be displayed toward the whole team, not just 
already own. must haw •ered around the ·one or two individuals." 
The student body has been fighting for increased freedom especially ' appt>~· _he Irish running ~otre Dame fans are often listed as being the greatest in the world. If socially, over the past five years. They claim they are mature enough to · , been noticeably so, then one has to hope that display wasn't an example. handle the freedom and want to be treated like adults. But the Not->· ""-.t three "Good" fans don't boo their own players. "Great" ones don't even Dame studentbody did little to enhance it chances last Saturday. -····il '-"th:.:;i::;n:::kc..:a::.:b:.::o:.:u:.:.t..:iUs.:·_______________________J 










