
server 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary'sVol. XI, No. 68 Friday, January 28, 1977 
Church opposes women priests 
VATICAN CITY (AP) -The Roman Catholic Church said yes­terday it will not ordain women as priests because Christ ·'was and remains a man"' and his apostles. all men. chose other men as theil successors. 
A declaration issued on orders of Pope Paul VI by the Vatican's Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith went directly against the recommendation of another Vatican body and the growing practice among Protestant Christ­ian denominations of ordaining women. 
"The Church. in fidclitv to the example of the Lord. d-oes not con~idcr herself authorized to admit 11·omcn to priestlv ordina­tion ... the document said. Quoting St. Thomas Aquinas. the declara­tion said there must be a "natural resemblance" between Christ and hio., minister'>. Otherwise. it o,aid. "it would be difficult to sec in the minister the image of Christ.·· 
The document was prepared b~· a rnmmission of doctrinal experts appointed on instructions of the Pope in mid-1975. The Vatican also consulted cardinals and bishops around the world and "different women of different continents and countries. of different social condi­tion. lay and religious."' a spokes­man said. 
But the Pontifical Biblical Com­mission. the Vatican· s permanent body of Bible experts. also took up the matter. Its secretary. Bishop Albert Descamps. reported Thurs­dav that the commission voted 12 to 5 fn favor of women priests, with one member abstaining and two absent. 
Bishop Descamps -disclosed the conflict between the Biblical Corn­mission and the Pope during questioning at a news conference called to introduce the new declara­tion. 
The Vatican said the declaration was issued to dispel doubts at a time when other Christian churches. including the Episcopal and Methodist churches in the United States. were opening the door for women to become mini­sters. pastors and priests. 
It referred to recent correspon­dence between Pope Paul and .Dr. Donald Coggan. the archbishop of Canterbury and primate of the Anglican Church. in which the Pope said the acceptance of women 
priests  would  block  progress  
tm1·ard  unitv  among  Christian  
churches.  ·  

Heplying to some theories that Christ's failure to appoint women apostles was more the result of the social intluences of his time than his own or God's feelings. the document said: 
"Jesus Christ did not call any women to become part of the twelve. If he acted in this way, it was not in order to conform to the customs of his time, for his attitude towards women was quite different from that of his milieu. and he deliberately and courageously broke with it."' 

Pozzo (Rick Cluckey) takes refreshment as lucky (John Jenkins) looks on with apprehension m th_e San Quentin Drama Workshop's production of Samuel Beckett's Waiting for Godot, which w1ll be pres~nted at 8 p.m. Sunday night in O'laughlin Auditorium, St. Mary's. 
Student leaders to hear proposals 
bJ Joe Slovinec 

The Notre Dame Student Con­gress will consider a variety of topics when it meets at 7 p.m. on Monday, Jan. 31. in the Little Theatre of LaFortune Center. Invitations were sent to all mem­bers of the student government, the Student Union. the Hall Presi­dents' Council (HPC). and all class officers. 
The first item on the agenda is a report by the Student Life Council (SLC). Student Body President Mike Gassman said that the SLC may change its discussions to a forum rather than the past format of considering proposals drawn up by committees. Gassman feels it is better if the SLC discusses ideas and then sends them to committee for further action. which would be a reversal of the present policy of only discussing certain proposals given by committees. Gassman said the forum proposal. which will be presented by Student Body Vice-President Mike Casey, will eliminate much of the bureaucracy presently caused by committees. 
Proposals for the renovation of LaFortune Student Center will also be discussed. Gassman said that the HPC will distribute a survey to students asking them what activ­ities they would like to see in LaFortune. Gassman would like to make the student center a more 
open meeting-place" and '·activities center.'' Architecture students will present a portfolio on their ideas for renovating the area around LaFortune Center and Washington Hall. 
Another question on the agenda 
is the proposal for hall parties with 
alcohol. Gassman said that the 
Student Congress will review 
several proposals for precautions 
against any problems that may 
arise out of the parties. Proposed 
precautions include requiring proof of the legal Indiana drinking age of 
21. measures to prevent drunken driving after the parties, and an adequate staff at the party to control anyone who becomes in­toxicated. 
Gassman said the University is concerned about their legal responsibility for the parties which is an area of great question. The University's anxiety partially stems from a 1974 court case in which a 17-year-old became intoxicated at his sister's house and then had an auto accident. Both the 17-year-old and his sister were sued and held legally responsible. 
Gassman cited a university policy stated by University Counsel Philip Faccenda that the University is not responsible for actions of students who are using alcohol and that the University may only be liable if they are aware of the party. Gassman said that if the hall rector consents to a party. that could be construed as meaning that they are aware of the party and may be held responsible. 
This proposal will generate a great deal of discussion. Gassman hopes that if a few hall parties are allowed. it could provide the start of a system to shift to more hall parties if the drinking age is lowered to 18. 
The agenda also includes a discussion on the desirability of departmental examinations at 8 
a.m. A committee of students and faculty are in the process of discussing this policy with Univer­sitv Provost Fr. James T. Burt­chaell. Gassman disclosed that the student government is planning its first official survey of students' opinions on 8 a.m. departmental exams. This survey will pave the way for a later statement of the student government's position on the deparhnentals. 
Jerry Klingenberger. head of the Notre Dame student lobby for lowering the Indiana drinking age to 18. will inform the Student Congress of the prospects for the lobby's success. Gassman said the drinking age bill is currently in an Indiana Senate committee and he estimates committee action will be taken within two weeks. Then the full Indiana Senate will act on the bill. 
Gassman stated the Student Congress will discuss Student Government proposals from the first semester that still require action. University President Fr. Theodore Hesburgh approved the installation of a campus laundro­
mat for men. but Gassman said that the tentative location of the 
laundromat  in  Badin  Hall  still  
needs  to  be  cleared  out  and  
prepared  for  the  new  facility.  

Ga~;sman hopes "to facilitate fast implementation of the plan."' 
The cable TV proposal recently rejected by Fr. Hesburgh will be discussed. Gassman disagrees with the administration view that cable TV is too costly and would be used mainly as an entertainment medium by students. He remarked that a proposal should be judged on its merits, and financial concerns should be only secondary. 
Gassman also believes that Notre Dame students' great concern for academics would not be diminished by cable TV and that the educa­tional benefits would far outweigh! the costs. The administration has implied it might consider cable TV in the future. but Gassman said it is important to start the system now since it will take several years to mature. 
Discussions on the effectiveness, of the hall judicial boards will also take place. Bob Bode is co­ordinating efforts to standardize 
(continued on page 6) 

Mardi Gras construction to begin; 
bo~~m~n~B"~ef I~.~t t!~!"~f!!.0,~~ e.!.~!~,!.. 
Senior Staff Reporter 

Although Mardi Gras does not 
begin until Feb. 11, construction of 
the Mardi Gras booths will begin 
tomorrow in Stepan Center. 
The theme for this year's Mardi Gras, the annual fund-raising fun­ction for Notre Dame Charities. will be "Hollywood." Booths will inc­lude a western saloon by Keenan Hall. a haunted house by Flanner, Farley's "A Streetcar Named De­sire." Breen-Phillips' "The Wizard ·of Oz." the balloon from "Around the World in Eighty Days" and a replication of Grauman's Chinese 
Theatre. 
"Mardi Gras is much more 
organized this year," Don Bishop. 
chairman of Mardi Gras said. "I 
think this is because the chairmen 
have been working on ideas for 
their boots since October.'' 
''Another good thing about Mar­
di Gras this year,"' Bishop contin­
ued, "is that the entertainment $400 has been spent on entertam-Ltsa Becker. the arch1tcct; Sean ment. But this year, we've spent Casey, accountant; Claire Boast $2000 on entertainment." and Beth De Lucenay, raffle chair-
The entertainment for opening men; Larry Kerrigan and Lee night, Friday, Feb. 11, will be a Zawistoski. special projects; and 17-piece jazz group. The Mardi Marie Daugherty and Missy Gras committee is also planning on Heard, concessions. havmg two bluegrass bands, two Dealer's school will be held in rock bands, a song and dance the television room in LaFortune group featuring some Notre Dame Center this year instead of at and St. Mary's students and a Stepan Center. since LaFortune is talent group which does half-hour more centrally located. Next Sun-skits of movies. Also, the Sunday of day is tentatively the date for the Mardi Gras, Feb. 13, will be a first dealers' school but signs will special family day. be posted in the halls announcing 
Last year Mardi Gras raised the exact times and dates. $23.000 for charities. The charities The cold weather could be an which will be benefiting from obstacle retgarding student partici-Mardi Gras this year are CILA, pation in Mardi Gras this year. Logan Center, World Hunger Coal-according to Bishop. "We've not­itior. Notre Dame Missions, and iced that the participation of South Neighborhood Studies. Quad is down this year. We just 
In addition to WSND broadcast-hope the weather won't stop them ing daily from Mardi Gras WRBR from coming over Stepan... he will also broadcast occasionally said. from Stepan Center. Any students who want to help 
Working with Bishop are AI construct their hall's booth should O'GDrrnan, co-ordinator and publi-contact their hall chairman. 
the observer Friday, january 28, 1977
2 


5:15pm mass and dinner at bulla shed 
6 pm track meet. bowling green state univ, univ of illinois, chicago circle and indiana tech at ace 
8 pm bible study. campus crusade for christ. library lounge 
9-12 pm nazz. nd's first and second 1azz combos 
9:30 · skating party. knights of columbus, ace skating rink 
10:30 pm ,111 members invited 
o .Hll exam. graduate management admission exam, eng 
aud 1 pm basketball, nd vs. fordham. ace 
8 prn live theater. second citv, sponsored by snlC souaI commission. o'laughl1n aud ticket inform,Jtion 
(-1--1176) 

8-12 pm nazz arne brav, one dolldr 
5:30 and film series,· to live in peace," sponsored by nd-smc 8 pm thPdtt>r, carroll hall, one dollar 
8 pm drama, "waiting for godot" by san quentin drama workshop, sponsored by nd-'>mc theater and smc 
pprforming arts, o'laughlin aud, $3 general, $2 
~tudents 

8 pm recital, bruce gustafson, harpsichord recital, spon­

<f> WELCOMES YOU 
sorPd bv music dept, stapleton lounge 
8 pm na-zz, arne brav, one dollar 
BEFORE YOU PAY MORE, CHECK US OUT FIRST. 
8:15pm concert, nd chorale, sponsored by music dept, 
washington hall J ALL $6.98 LIST LP's ALWAYS $4.99
l 

New Year's Eve revisited *-ROCK *SOUL *JAZZ with dining hall dance * CLASSICAL *COUNTRY *BLUES 
bJ Tom Erler 

A New Year's Eve recelebration dance sponsored by Walsh and Keenan halls and the Student Union social commission. will be held tomorrow night from 9 p.m. to I a.m. in the North Dining Hall. 
North Star. a rock group. will perform for the dance and refresh­ments will be served. 
The idea for the dance was originated by Keenan Hall Presi­dent Rich Hebert. This type of event. according to Hebert. would help bring students from the different halls. quads and cam­puses together. while enabling students who were apart during the holidays to recelebrate the New Ycar together. 
According to Jim Bonaventura, Keenan's coordinator for the dance. "The partitions will be removed and the full size of the dining hall \\ill be utilized. I hope e\-crvone takes advantage of this Oj)portunity to enjoy a celcbration­* CUT-OUTS tvpc atmosphere with the entire * BLUEGRASS *IMPORTS Notr~. Dame-St. Mary's commu­*CASSETTES 
ni!_\. 

* 45's RPM * 8 TRACKS 
* PIPES,

The dance is open to all student~ 
*JEWELRY
and admission is one dollar. *LEATHER PAPERS 
*MAGAZINES
* T-SHIRTS * NEEDLES
(*The Observerl 
Night Editor: Bob Brink ACROSS FROM TOWN & COUNTRY SHOPPING CENTER Asst. Night Editor: Katie 
Kerwin, Rosemary Mills Layout Staff: Kathy Mills, Joe Bauer Editorial Layout: Jerry Hickey Features Layout: Chris Smith Sports Layout: L. Anthony Pace Typists: Morey "Pay me or trade me" Blinder, Gwen Coleman, Stephanie Urillo, Don Roos EMT: Terri Harlan Day Editor: Mary Pat Tarpey Copy Reader: Tom Byrne, Barbara Breitenstein 
lPhotographer: Anonymous ) 
.................................. 

! Auditions For !
iPlay It Again, Sami
•: a Student Players I Social Commission •: 
-~-~-------­
Service increased 
Quickee to begin operation 
by Karen Sikorski "Without this support," Dullanty Staff Reporter said, ''we would only be able to run the Quickee once a week or be over 
Beginning this weekend the budget." Quickee will be in operation on The Quickee will run on the Saturday as well as Friday nights, following dates: January 28-29; according to Rick Dullanty, Assis­February 4-5, 18-19, and 25-26; 
tant Social Commissioner. 

The increased service is made possible by financial assistance from some area businesses on the Quickee route, Dullanty explained. Kubiak's, the Heidelberg Inn, Shula's and the Forum Theatre all contributed to the maintenance of the service. 
llw Oh,Pr\t·r 1' puhll\hr·d Monda\ throu~h I rrd.1v dnd WPFkh durrn~ tht• '-~llnlnlt•r .., .. ~~... ..,Inn PXlt•pt dtJrmg thr· t'\,Hll .Jnd \,H,rlron rwrrod, Tht• Uh"-r"•r" JHrbl"hed by 'tudr•nt' ot th•· l'nl\t•r,rl\ ot Notr!' [J.tmt• and )t M.tr\ ' ( ·ollt•gp Sub" rrpt1on' rlld\ hf' pun h.r"•d lor $20 pPr \PM ('!> 10 pt•r "'nH',tt>r) I nrrn rhP Ob,Pr· V!'r, llox Q. f'<otrt· [},Jnu•. Jndrdlld 4h'i">f> St'umd dd\\ po,t.rg" pard, Notrt• Danw. Jndrand 4b~)h 
Tht• Obwrwr " a mt>mb<'r of thP A""' rdtt'd PrP" !\II rt•productron nght' an• rt'..,Pnf•d 
the senior bar starts a new weekly tradition! LADIES NIGHT 
one free beer or drink for every lady present all night specials Beer $.30 Mixed Drinks $.50 -Also­we are open before the B-Ball game at noon! Lunch Special Hot Dog'n Beer $.50 Pizza & Subs also! 
~RECORDS 
March 4-5 and 25-26; and April 15-16. Departure points are the main circle, Holy Cross circle and St. Mary's. Service begins at 8:30 
p.m. and continues every half hour until 2:00 a.m. The fare is still 75 cents for an all-night pass. 
PHONE HOURS: MON-SAT 10 -9 pm SUNDAY 12 • 6 
• Production 
1i Sunday, Jan. 30th 1:00PM f • LaFortune Basement • 
the nazz



·:· i 
!Crew Members : : Needed 
1 

: Actors •ior Frustrated Actors! "THERE f 
t~~g!~~'!'!:'!~:~~~••~................J 
f 
I·
!f 
!t 
' 

------------------~-~--~-----------------~---"""~! 
Friday, January 28, 1977 the observer 
3 



ND anticipates no fuell shortage 
by Kate Flynn Staff Reporter 

While schools and industries across the country have had their fuel supply curtailed because of the unusually high winter demand, Notre Dame faces no immediate or expected fuel shortage. according to Maintenance Director Edward Lyons. 
'"We have adequate fuel supplies for the winter,'' said Lyons, "but the operating budget has been strained because of the stress on ground crews, equipment repairs and overtime wages, and it will be strained sometime before we're through." 
The nationwide natural gas crisis that has touched parts of Indiana considered by the officers of the will not affect Notre Dame's fuel University and not by the Power consumption, explained Lyons, Plant or maintenance departments. since gas supply to Notre Dame ''A decree to limit heat to the 
was discontinued by right of an residences would have to come interruptable contract in late from University officers, but our November. The power plant, heating system lacks the sophisti­
housing several boilers capable of cation for an exact temperature burning gas. oil. or coal, is pre­control in the residences. Even if it sently burning from 140 to 180 were law to turn down the thermo­
tons of coal each day, depending on stats. temperature control is only the cold, with oil to alleviate stress possible in the new buildings like during peak hours. the Memorial Library and the ACC. 
Fr. Jerome Wilson. admin­Residence heating works on an istrator of the University's physical all-or-nothing basis,'' explained plant, said President Jimmy Wilson. Carter's request that industry and Wilson added that students private citizens lower the setting on would have to take the respon­their thermostats to 65 degrees sibility for minimal control byduring the day and even lower radiator in the halls. and that all during the night would have to be sources of possible energy control 
Prison group to present Godot 
~an Vucntin Drama Workshop, the first prison theatre group. will be premiering its production of Nobel Prize winner Samuel bcckctt's modern classic. "Waiting For Godot." Sunday night at 8 p.m. in o·Laughlin Auditorium. 
Prior to the production. Ruby Cohn, noted Beckett scholar and editor. will conduct a workshop tomorrow at 4 p.m. in the Little Theatre at SMC. Her workshop­discussion will detinc "Waiting For Godot" and Beckett's concepts in relation to the San Quentin Drama Workshop's production of "Godot." 
Cohn is professor of Comparative Drama at the University of Cal­ifornia at Davis. She also-holds the capacity of the U.S. editor of Contemporary Dramatists maga­zine. 
The San Quentin Drama Work­shop was founded by convicts of the prison. Many inmates such as Ken Whalen. Mal Braley, Rick Cluchcv. R.S. Bailey and others were i.nspircd to f~rm a drama group by a production. "Waiting For Godot." performed in "Q" by the San Francisco Actors' Work­shop in 1957. 
Between 1958-1966. the Work­shop began experimenting with Beckett's works. Seven produc­tions of hi'> pla~·s were produced inside Quentin during this period. Since 19htl. the group has toured in other countries. including Scot­land. England. France and Gcr­
nHm~·. 
The San Quentin Drama Work­shop is a performing arts organiza­tion devoted to social and edu­cational theatre. In the past decade the Workshop has performed in over 500 colleges and universities throughout forty-eight states, Canada and nine European countries. Workshop productions have been honored at three inter­national festivals. before heads of state. before the U.S. Congress and in many penal institutions here and abroad. The Workshop has also performed on Broadway, off­Broadway and in many regional 
repertory theatres across the country. 
The. production, "Waiting For Godot." presented by the Work­shop is commemorating its rela­tionship with Samuel Beckett and its second decade of activity. Tickets for the play arc on sale at two dollars for students and three dollars for the general audience. 
In its February issue, National Lampoon sets out to answer a question that has been on everyone's mind since November 22, 1963 ... 

WHAWIF1 
an-Walsh-Student Union Social 
Invite you to really ring out the old and ring in the new..... 
New Year's Eve Party 
Saturday, Jan. 29th 
North Dining Hall 9 m-1 am 
admission $1.00 Music by North Star Refreshments -Music ­Party Favors 
by the power plant have been in Plant engineer Art Newhouse effect for years. said that a lowering of the tempera­
Kenneth Kempf. assistant ture in the Library, ACC, Computer manager of the power plant, indi­Building and other new buildings cated that consumption on campus by just three degrees would result ha> increased approximately eight in some fuel cost savings to the to ten percent this year. University. 

~~  $5.00 Great Bargain!! A Great Lineup!  
••  ~~t ···-»3 Library Carry-out S ecials!!!!!!!!  

y2Gal. IKAMKACHATKA VODKA Reg. $9.99 NOW $1.69 
'1/5 ZONIN LAMBRUSCO Reg. $2.65 NOW $1.69 
1Qt. BELLOW'S GIN Reg. $5.79 NOW 3.89 
'1/5 SEAGRAM'S SEVEN Reg. $5.45 NOW $3.99 
ALS 

--Complete Lines Of l'aylor Gallo Inglenook Christian 
F1aul Masson Brother's l\lmaden Italian Swiss Colony l\lso wide selection of 
imported · wines ... •. *French. *German. ·*.Italian .• 
~~:.·.......................~.~...............~ ..............::~.. 


*The Observer 
anindependentstudentnewspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's 
The Observer~~ puhl1~hPd b\ ~tudPnh ot tht• l'n1ver~lt\' ot '-"tn· Ddmt• .llld ~t ,'v\dr\ ~ CoiiPgP It dot·~ not llt>CP~~ani\ rt"llt•t 1 1 ht · p11l1tlt'~ ot Pit hPr lthtlt ut 1011 l ht' llP\\ ~ 1~ rPported ·'' ,,, <tlldft•h ,llld ,1~ nh)t'ltl\t'l\ <1~ po~~1blt> Fd1tnr1.JI~ rt'l" '''t'lll tlw llfllllllHl ot <1 m.ljOrlt\ ot tht> f drton.JI Bo.1rrl l.tolllfiH•flldr;t•, 11pllllllll~ .111d lt'ltt>r~ drt' thP V'P\\ ~ (l\ thPrr .wth"r' Ctdumn ~p.ltt' 1~ d\.Jrl,Jblt> to all nwmfwr~ ot the , tolllllllllllt\ .rnd lt>ttt'r~ .Jrt' t•ncour.JgPd to promott' tht' lrt't' t"\fll.t'''lllll Ill \.If\ 111g 0p1111011~ 011 ( <llllpll~ 
l)u,IIH'~~ .\1,Jn.Jgt'r l om I ront 1<1k \d\t•rtl,lllg ,\1.Jn<lgt•r .\\lkt• .\1111t•r l'hoto f d1tor 1111l\ Ch11.1r1 l'l,dtll t11111 .\1,lfl,lgt•r \\.1rth.1 l I ,lrlnrng 
Friday, january 28, 1977 







Cable TV 
The University Officers' rejection of SBP 
Mike Gassman's cable' TV proposal is 
extremely disappointing. The Officers 
have blocked a worthwhile project for what 
generally seem weak reasons. 
The merits of a University cable TV system are considerable. It would allow many educational programs. A student­run, student-oriented TV and improved radio stations would be possible-which would be both educational and entertain­ing. (It would also reduce The Observer's near-monopoly on news coverage, some­thing which would please many adminis­trators.) Improved reception of off-campus stations would provide increased enter­tainment. A closed circuit security system could be created without much added cost. 
The University Officers (the president, provost, executive vice president, vice presidents and associate provost) raise several objections. They fear that educa­tional programs might weaken the Univer­sity's stress on face-to-face education. But the proposal clearly calls for such pro­grams to supplement, not to replace, person-to-person contact. They fear the added entertainment might be too distract­ing. But there is too little entertainment around Notre Dame for a bit more to cause plummeting GPA's. 
Their primary objection is of course the cost--approximately $500,000. The Officers claim that the University simply does not have that much money to spend on the 
P. 0. Box Q 
is the deadline for this semester's outcome. program. I ask that you sign up "radio announcer" tonight at dinner. You'll tind that. wrap-up of the efforts of the front for once. it's easier done than said. line of puckstcrs. 
I can hear the obvious from Tony Chifari anyone who was a spectator at the games. What I expect of The Observer is a skilled report of the
Incomplete 
behind-the-lines scene. What a­bout giving some credit to the not­so-famous but certainly necessary
coverage 
team mcmaers who support the leading scorers? Instead of an elaboration of game
Dear Editor: 

statistics I'd much rather read I hate to knock one reporter to 
some Chip Shots. Let's give the build up another but something 
Irish the quality writing they deserve.
was definitely missing from last weekend's hockey coverage. I was Margaret D' Aquila unable to make the Michigan games and was ready to read a coherent description of the games' 

Do you want to be 
A CATHOLIC? Please call 283-6536 or 283-3820 for information about the Notre Dame Catechumenate 
·Program 
Festers down 
Dear Students of Notre Dame: 

I an1 in no way \:onnected with the Hunger Coalition. I am. ho,\cvcr. distrcs~cd to find that the number of Wcdnesda~· night fa~tcrs i'> down from last semester. At a unhcrsit\ tilled with con­cerned human beings. it surprises me that virtuaJI~· everyone cannot give up one meal per week. 
A~ an~onc who has participated know,. fasting of this sort requires little effort. The hardest part is ..,igning the pledge form. As today 
N.D. Tae Kwon Do 
Club ( Korean Karate ) Invites all old members 
and any interested beginners to work out with us this semester. Mon., Wed., Fri., at ACC, 6 p.m. to 8 p.m. 
Call Mark -283-8316 or Andy -287-6189 

project and that the expense would place 
too great a burden on the parents who 
would pay for it. The project must wait 
until costs go down and the University has 
enough money. 
The Officers may be entirely right in their assessment that the University lacks the money. But even if they are not it is difficult to argue against them since the administration is so secretive about the details of Notre Dame's financial position. 
Some counter-arguments are obvious, however. The cost of installation will not diminish--like all expenses it will rise in future years. The expense per student ($5 or $10 per year, plus a monthly charge of about $1 per outlet) is less than one percent of the expense parents and students are already paying for a Notre Dame education. It is small even compared to the usual annual rise in educational expenses. 
The cable TV proposal should be given the priority it deserves as a contribution to the education and life at Notre Dame and should not be treated as a mere luxury. 
The plan should not be allowed to die from the Officers' rejection. It is an excellent example of the imagination and research Notre Dame students need from their student government. Student Gov­ernment should improve the case for the plan and the next SBP should present it again, at the Board of Trustees meeting in May. 
Instead I got a cheap play by play 
Box Q, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 Phones: (219) 283-8661 [ND] (219) 284-5365 [SMC] 
EDITORIAL BOARD Thom.J~ 0 Nprl Edrtor-rn-Chief 
0.111 S,HH ht>/ Managing Edrtor Chrr~ Smrth A-;~t Managing Ed 
Crt>gg B.1ng., E: xecut rve Editor \'.1l ZurlJI~'> ExPrutiVt' l::rlrtor f'.tt H,lllrtrn fdrtonal E::rlrtor l)oh M.1dt>r f \PC News Edrtor 
,'v\,turt•t>n II\ nn C.1mpu' Edrtor M<~rt r Hm~.111 ~t ,'v\an ·., f drtor Don Rt•rt1H'I ( ·op\ f drtor T1111 () Rr rlt•\ I t•.ltUrP'> r drtor I rt•d fit>riJ,t Spnrh f d1tor 
WELL, AS YOU KNOW, GAM£ 5HOIJJ C&lEBRJTI£5 AR& N(JT R£AU.Y CUEBR.IT/£35 IN ANY FORMAL 
S&NsE., SINCE FEW Or 7H£lr1 HAVe EV£1?. fXJN£. ANYTHING WOI<!H 
CEL£8R:4TIA/G:1 
IT5 A N&CES5AKt5Y5TEM, 
THOU(iH. ONl-Y BY CR£ATIN6 WEU, 
TH£1R. OWN ''CEI£BRJTt£5" WHERE 
CA/'J MOST GAM£ SH(}{))S 00 7H£Y 
\ STAY IN lH/3 GeT 7H& 
•q_ BlACK! PfOPL£7, 
~ 
l~.~ 

~(t-1 . 
ffl ~~··· ~'b.;.w., .. 
~ ll-4 ~ '
'"1, . 
0 :1 
()~----~-----'-'------~ 

singa Iong junk !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~ 

Windy rhetoric 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiii~~~~~~iiiiiiiiii;oe gill 
Th'e Student Life Council's deci­sion to alter its format and become a forum for student discussion is similar to the blind man in Mel Brook's Young Frankenstein who decided to carry a lamp to light his way through the forest. The pro­blem of blindness is still there. 
For over a semester, the SLC has stumbled ineptly from discussion to discussion without resolution. At each and every meeting, the ques­tion of purpose has arisen, and each and every meeting, the ques­tion has gone unanswered. A change in format does nothing more than dodge the real issue of the Council's existence. 
But actually, there's another problem here, something even more important than functional debates, something that holds the SLC eyelids closed so tightly that format changes are mistakenly held up as lamps to light the way. Oddly enough, that "something" is not even open for discussion, because the problem is the discussion itself. 
It is windy rhetoric. 

Sure, there are people speaking back and forth to each other. There are slowly and carefully-formed phrases moving, dragging, back and forth. But there is no one talking with each other. No one seems to be saying exactly what he or she feels. 
For example, early last semester Fr. Burtchaell established a com­mittee for the study of coeducation, chaired by Assistant Provost Sr. John Miriam Jones and composed of notable University personnel. However, the SLC has had exactly the same type of committee for over two years, having conducted extensive studies into this area. The formation of the new commit­tee was an indirect insult to the work of the SLC. 
And yet, when . this fact was brought to light at the SLC's beginning meeting, it was rather ashamedly and hesitantly pushed under the table. Instead of discus­sing the conflicts the new commit­tee presented, or more important­ly, instead of being honest enough 
with each other to be enraged at 
this affront, the members quickly 
adhered to Bro Just Paczesny's 
suggestion that "of course the 
committee will have to work with 
us.'' 
All well and good. But the point is that the SLC members seemingly failed to voice their real opinions on this matter. 
SLC Chairperson Mike Casey recognized this problem when, in a letter to each of the members, he proposed a change in format. saying "if we did this, we could enhance the 'flow of communica­tion' which seems to be the basis for much of our problems." But if the members are not going to say what they feel, a mere change in the meeting's structure will be useless. Something else is needed. 
Some of the members feel intim­idated by the presence of the Observer reporter, fearing the proverbial horror of "bad press." This is nonsense. Open public meetings and heated discussion have been, and are becoming more and more, apart of society's struc­ture. 

Ifthe members disagree with the way the Administration handled itself with regard to WSND, or the cutback in funds for the Scholastic, or the procedures taken in disci­plinary action, then they should voice their disagreement. If they are afraid to say what they feel because of the presence of a Bro Just or a Dean Roemer, or because it might look as if the students or faculty were in conflict with the Administration, they have no busi­ness being a member of the SLC. 
The concept of a body composed of students, faculty and adminis­tration is a good one, for it incorporates the backgrounds, ages, and experiences of three essential shperes of University life. It is and excellent foundation for discussion, but it only works when the members decide to talk. Other­wise, the SLC will continue: to experience the same sort of fate the blind man in YoungFrankenstein did: it will again run intoa tree. 
this friday and every fridays :1 s mass & supper 

loss, with only emptiness to replace the 
laughter, the conversations, the touch, the :iii caress, the smile, there is the simpering c 
Letters to a Lonely God <II 
-;::j

consolation of Hallmark: "The flower still blooms beyond the wall"; and sure 
CQ

by REV. ROBERT GRIFFIN :2 
enough, there is a picture of a flower c growing inside a wall (the other side from -c Q 
Let All 


Who Mourn 
Be Comforted 
For a while, it looked as though this winter were a season of grieving for the death of fathers. Since the beginning of December, Bob and Dan Pedtke's father died: Nancy Cox's father died; Mike and Dan Duffy's father died; Rich Geschke's father died; Pat Keating's father died; Nick Reisinger's grandfather died. Then, last Sunday, Terry Gwynn died. and we were reminded of that other list of names (at least a dozen that I can remember) telling us of parents who mourn the death of children. Parents die; students die; we knew that they were fragile. mortal, perishable, subject to the summons of death. We did not know that they would di.e on this day, in this month, at this season. 
More often than not, death takes us by surprise, stunning us and numbing us by its interruption. Death is careless about whom it grieves; it is indifferent, irrever­ent, presumptuous, cruel. It is an enemy to be feared and guarded against. God, if He is for real, ought to do something about death. 
To heal the numbness, we create theologies with images that are closer to poetry than they are to truth; theologies that tell us in the Sweet Bye-and-Bye, we will stand on that beautiful shore. We will gather with the saints at the river,. the beautiful, beautiful river, that flows by the throne of God. For all eternity, with cherubim and seraphim, we'll be casting down -our golden crowns -around the glassy sea. 
We'll exchange our cross for .a starry crown. up where the sun shines ever. ·At His feet we'lllay every burden down, and with Jesus reign forever. 
It is so Never-Never Land. It is so mythically Paradise Regained, so Camelot come back. so Land of Ozish with the wicked witches dead. It is such a Disney­land of the spirit, such aConev Island of the mind. It is so fairy land ·and Arabian nights, so excessively fantastic, so outside the realm of human experience that there seems to be no real truth the heart and mind can cling to, because heaven appears so largely to be a creation of language belonging solely to the department of the imagination. Faced with the loneliness of 




Entertainment 

amtiBIISe 
402 Dixieway North 3401 L WW 


This Weekend 
ON THE TUBE 
WIUard (Friday, 11:30 pm, Channel 22): A 1972 film about an intro­verted kid who trains his pack of pet rats to kill people he doesn't like, foremost of whom is Ernie Borg nine. College Basketball: Fordham at Notre Dame (Sat., 1:00 pm, 16), Michigan State at Wisconsin (Sat., 
4:00 pm, 16), Illinois at Purdue (Sat., 4:00 pm, 22). Golf (Sun., 4:00pm, 22): The final round of the Andy Williams-San Diego Open. The Hardy Boys (Sun., 7:00 pm, 28): Dark and handsome Frank Hardy and his younger, equally handsome, but blonde brother Joe, along with the olive-skinned Tony Pronto and their stout, good­natured chum Chet Morton, whose sister lola is sweet on Frank but Frank won't admit it even though he's sweet on her too, solve crimes. Evel Knlevel's Death Defiers us, of course), where we can neither smell it nor see it, nor love it nor pick it. We think to ourselves: it is only the Selfish Giant who puts up walls to keep us from enjoying his garden. Yet I would not lose one line of a Hallmark card, nor one verse from a camp meeting hymn dealing with the mystery of life eternal. "Eye has not seen, nor ear heard, nor has it entered into the heart of man to know what things God has prepared for those who love Him,'' says St. Paul. Yet even he cannot resist writing of the flourish of trumpets when the dead in Christ shall rise to glory, having put off their corruptible bodies to become im­mortal with the grace of the Risen Lord. Who can blame Hallmark, or evangelical preachers, for trying to comment on an experience for which creatures have no language? 
If you live long enough, you learn never to trust appearances. and that life and death are the alternating moods of beings existing on the earth. An infant that is healthy in the morning, may sicken at noonday, and be borne off for requiems in the evening. But who can say that an old man. full of decay, does not fall into a sleep from which he rises to an everlasting morning? Roots do it, seeds do it, bulbs do it, in an annual cycle. Bomb a city, and the day after the ruin. there can be flowers pushing their petals through the ash heaps. Try to defeat the persistence of crab grass. You can root it up, mow it down, smear it with black top, cover it with concrete. A week later, it is back, splitting the sidewalk with its irresistible energies. 
I am not crab grass nor a blitz flower; but I am part of the life stream that flows through the cosmos. When I am laid to rest in a graveyard, the dust that is me has other errands it will be sent on in the next million years. I have leased it from Nature for a little while; but tomorrow it may be needed for the growth of an oak tree, or the capering of a cocker spaniel. But my mind, my soul, my spirit--the part of me that knows and loves; the part of me that needs beauty and is sometimes selfish; that suffers from loneliness, and comforts others. The special part of me that makes me a specific son and brother, begotten from a paternity that stretches clear back to Adam; the part of me that could give uniqueness to sons and daughters begotten from now till the doom of the world. That Self, that Ego, that I --it does not sleep in graveyards, and I cannot believe that nature will lose it to nothingness. I cannot believe that Nature will throw it away, while she clutches like a miser to the merest specks of dust. 
I cannot dream of the adventures that wait me when the requiescats are spoken over the empty shell which was always clumsier and more indolent than the dancer in me could have wished for. Perhaps I will be a tenor soloist in the 
Ql 
N 
>­
..c 
Q
.... 
Q 
..c 
c.. 

Kingdom's choir 1hat sings Handel's Hallelujah at the throne of God. Perhaps I will literally be a g11est at the Marriage Supper of the Lamb, where the wine will be a Eucharist drunk from the vintages of Cana. Perhaps. when the roll is called up yonder, I will labor for the Master from the dawn to setting sun, as the old hymn promises, forgetting that eye has not seen, nor ear heard, nor has it entered into the heart of man to know. 
One thing I am sure of: on thejourney from the sick bed into the experience that seems like night, I wlll not be following an untravelled road. Lc·ving friends and my grandparents, and a father and a brother, have made the trip bdore me. That means there has to be a homecoming full of tears and laughter. Even if there were no promises of faith, there has to be a homecoming. Thoug:h souls should be as distant as stars twinkling in different galaxies, love would ~ftnd a way to leap the firmaments. 
But there are the promises of faith, consistent with the immortal longings that create theologies. Dying will be like a walk on the road to Emmaus in the company of a seasoned traveller who has been this way before. I will fear no ~,vii. for He is with me as a shepherd tending the lamb, a teacher confirming the hope, a Saviour redeeming the guilt, a brother arranging the home­coming. 
As heaven gathers the gentle people one by one, we need less and less to fear death for leading us to an unfamiliar place full of mystery. Even if Goc. were not present to greet me in that timeless hour, though I most assuredly believe that He will be, still 
REV. ROBERT GRIFFIN 
there are friends and relatives whom I have never stopped loving. who have never stopped loving me. Simply as a reunion of the dearest chaps of earth, heaven has to be an ecstasy beyond utterance. At the heart of the reunion, in the midst of the homecoming, there will be that trans­cendent present that Nicaeans in their creed called the Trinity: Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. Whether God will be over us or under us, within us or beside us; in none of these ways, or all of these ways, and many more besides, I am not the least bit tempted to guess. The miracles I have seen: the miracles of birth and death, springtime and winter; the miracle of breathing and eyesight, and the miracle of the night music of the wind; and best of all, the simple miracle of people singing and grieving, dying and being born again. All of it, and all of them, have been too wonderful to allow me to doubt the efficiency of my God in planning surprises in the mansions beyond the rainbow. 
In a winter full of grieving for fathers and for children, neither hymns nor Hallmark helps much. The most believable news I have heard about heaven are the names of the folks who have gone there. The eye has seen them, though not lately. The ear has heard them. The heart has known them, I know through them that God loves me, in heaven as on earth. Compared to them, diadems and starry crowns are worthless trinkets. Their names are all the music I need to hear, though the tunes be sung by angelic choirs. 
South Bend (near airport) 
by DAVID O'KEEFE 
(Monday, 8:30pm, 22): All sorts of lunacy, highlighted by EveI Knievel's leap over a tank filled with man-eating sharks. Hearts of the West (Monday, 9:00 pm, 16): Notre Dame grad Tony Bill produced this gentle comedy about a would-be author of West­erns who becomes a cowboy actor in 1930's Hollywood. 
........ ·. ,., .. 

ON CAMPUS. 
The First Annual Notre Dame Hall Snow Sculpting Contest: The name is longer than the contest, with sculpting beginning yesterday and final judging today at 4:30 pm. Prizes will be a $200, $100 and $50 gift certificate for the first three places. The Nazz: Friday-Jazz at the Nazz from 9:00 pm till midnight. Satur­day and Sunday from 8:00 pm until midnight: Arnie Brav. The Qulckee: Tonight and tomor­
·ow night, leaves at 8:30, 9:00, 
Sun-thurs 10:30-10:00
9:30, 10, l1' 12, 12:30, 1:00, 1:30 from ND and SMC-Holy Cross 
Fri & Sat 1 0:30-11 :00 
circles. 75 cents all night, SO cents one way. Stops at Shula's, Kub­iak's, Heidelberg, Forum 1 and 2 Theaters. (Silver Streak makes a 
FAST 
nice date). Notre Dame Chorale Concert: Sun­day night, 8:15 pm, Washington 

DRIVE THRU 
Hall. Keenan-Walsh-ND Social Commis­sion New Year's Eve Party: The same person responsible for the 

( SERVICE 
timing of Wacky Winter Weekend is responsible for this one. 9:00 pm -1 am on Saturday night at the 



1·-------T------Single Fries 
North Dining Hall. Admission a 
buck, music by North Star. 1 Double Fries 
ON THE SCREEN I L!t Drink I Lg Drink 
Boiler House 1: Shout at the Devil-Food of the Gods Boiler House 2: Jaws-Harry md Tonto 
1I $.99 II $1.50 
Forum 1: Buggsy Malone Forum 2: The Silver Streak I & tax 1 & tax 
I I I I 
I 
I 

•••expires Feb. 11• " •expires Feb. 11•J 
Friday, january 28, 1977
the observer 

Senior Fellow nominees biographies sketched 
bJ Val Zurblis Executive Editor 
This is the second of a three-part -;cries describing the Senior Fellow nominees. 
Bob D~·Ian initiated a style of 
music composition in which folk 
and rock clements were combined 
and coined ''folk rock." His songs, 
11 hich carried messages of social 
prote!>t indude "Mr. Tambourine 
"v1an." "lie a Rolling Stone," 
··.Just Like a Woman." and "I'll Be 
Your Bahv Tonight. which received 
till' 1470 ASCAP Award as one of 
the mn~t frequently performed 
-..nn.~s 0\·cr a period of years. He 
.tbo starred in the motion picture 
··Don't Ll>Ok Back" and wrote the 
book Tarantula. 
Kurt Vonnegut. an author whose 
;lltitudcs tcm·ard war and other 

Student Congress hears proposals 
(continued from page I) 
the usc of the judicial s~·stem. 
Gassman criticitcd the current 
inconsistenn· of some rectors let­
ting all \ iola.tion~ of regulation~ go 
through judicial boards while other 
rectors don't usc them at all. One 
ne11 proposal is that the chairman 
of the j-hoard be chosen in the 
'>pring semester for the following 
academic vear. Gassman believes 
more extensive use of the hall 
judicial boards will help make 
students more responsible. 

institutionalized forms of brutality 
and general irreverence has made 
him especially popular with today's 
youth. He has written such novels 
as Slaughterhouse-Five, Cal's Cra­
dle, and Breakfast of Champions. 
Art Buchwald, Los Angeles 

Times svndicate columnist. has 
written o~er 20 books, which poke 
fun at the government or current 
issues. including Getting High in 
Government Circles, (1971 ). The 
Establishment is Alive and Well in 
Washington (1969), and I Am Not 
A Crook (1974). 
Gerald Ford. 38th President of the United States. was the first unelected president. He is an author and lawyer and had been in Congress for is years. In 1973 he succeeded Spiro Agnew as Vice President. He received the Disting­uished Service Award as one of the ten outstanding young men in the U.S. in 1950. 
Jerr.'· Brown, Jr., became the second member of his family to be governor of California when he was elected in 1974. Brown has devel­oped a following with his attempts to reform the political process. In 1967 Brown joined the California Democratic Council and helped organize their peace campaign. He was one of the first Democrats to call for President Nixon's rcsigna­nation and his most outstanding endeavor was his reform of the state's campaign-contribution practices. While running for gov­ernor of California. he came out in support of the Supreme Court's abortion decision . legislation to aid the state's farm workers and the poor. increased economic planning. 
BOOKSTORE

GRIFFON~ 
Tolkien

Books new & used Figures The Griffon Bookstore Announces The Opening of Their GAME PARLOR: 
Chess Backgammon Historical/Fantasy Wargaming 
121A S. Michigan  South Bend  287-5533  
fOKUMI  I  TODAY -2:311-5:15-9:50 PM  
NEXT TO NORTH VILLAGE MALL  SAT.SlN · 2:00-~:30-~:00-9:~()  

----~~-----------------.·~~ 
All South Bend is Climbing Aboard for the Joyride of the life! 

SILVER .STRERI-1 
Starring Gene Wilder Jill Clayburgh Richard Pryor Patrick McGoohaty 

Every year brings A great movie..... This Time it's a GREAT GANGSTER MUSICA Run out and see this movie WOR Radio 
tonight 6:15 -8:00 . 9:45 Fri., Sat., Sun. at 1 :45 -3:35 -5:20 1 :3p .-9 :30 ,P.· m. · . . . . . . 
-
.:..o....rT'O''-"=-:ll 

a more traditional educational sys­tem. strict law-and-order policies. and was against increased spend­ing programs. 
Walter Cronkite has been a newsman for more than forty years. He has been anchorman for the CBS Evening News since 1962, has hosted many network programs such as "You Are There," "Twen­tieth Century" and "Eyewitness to History." He has won countless awards for journalistic excellence and is generally acknowledged to be the nation's pre-eminent broad­cast journalist. He was one of the first journalists accredited to Amer­kan forces after the United States entered World War II and was the 
Teacher award needs nominees 
by Jean Powley Staff Reporter 

St. Marv's Academic Affairs Council is. t'or the second consecu­tive year. in search of a recipient for its Maria Picta Award. The award honors Sr. Maria Picta. professor emeritus. who served the College for many years as teacher. counselor and administrator. 
Its purpose is to honor excellence in teaching. particularly in fresh­man and sophomore courses. 
Letters. explaining the award and giving a list of eligible faculty (those who have taught full-time during six of the past eight semesters and have taught at least one lower division course during each of those semesters). were sent to all sophomores. juniors and seniors. as well as faculty and administration members earlier this week. 
The letter invited its recipients to nominate teachers for the award b~· writing a letter of support discuss­
ing the nominee's qualifications. Nominations arc due to the com­mittee by Feb. I. Following receipt of the nomina­tions. a ten-member award com­mittee will review the nominees and submit three teachers' names to the Academic Affairs Council. The council will then vote on the trio. according to Rosemary Doherty, frc~hn1<111 dean and com­mittee chairman. The a\\ ard·~ recipient "·ill he announced ~ometime during the lir~t half of the ~cme~tl'l'. at which tinll' he or ~he will receive a ca~h ;m·ard and plaque. There i~ no limit on the number of times ·a faculty member may receive the honor. Sr. Cecilia Ann Kelly. professor of art, was the 1976 recipient of the 3\\·ard . 
chief U. P. correspondent at the war crimes trials in Nuremberg and then its bureau chief in Moscow. 
John Wayne. actor, has been the biggest box-office attraction in motion picture history. He won the Academy Award for best actor as Rooster Cogburn in "True Grit" in 1969. Some of his famous movies are "Stagecoach;" "The Sands of lwo Jima" and "The Man Who Shot Liberty Valance." 
The other 14 nominees are Bob Hope. Jesse Jackson. Alexander Solzhenitsyn. Woody Allen. Carl Bernstein and Bob Woodward, Beverly Sills, Bill Cosby, Eric Severeid, Rep. Barbara Jordan. Muhammed Ali. Garry Trudeau. Henry Kissinger, Jerry Lewis. and Sen. Edward Kennedy. 
The election for Senior Class Fellow will be held next Tuesday and Wednesday, Feb. I and 2. Off-campus students may vote in the main lobby of LaFortune from II a.m. to I p.m. and on-campus students may vote in their dorms from4:30 to 6 p.m. If anyone hasn't voted by Wednesday night. they may cast their ballot at the Senior Bar. 
For further information. call Ron Hathaway. (8228). 
The Notre Dame-Saint Mary's Theatre 
in cooperation with the 
Saint Mary's Performing Arts Series 
presents 
THE SAN QUENTIN DRAMA WORKSHOP 
in Samuel Beckett's 
Waiting For Godot 
One Performance Only 
Sunday, January 30, 1977 8:00 O'Laughlin Auditorium Admission $3.00 (Students $2.00) 

t------__J~Uil..IL..J'-JAjUL..~!:!.!..!p:!.L!...!.!.!..~=:!.....!..=.!!..::.!-----~ 
1 BUCKET OF BEER I L""''' 
5 S1 00 OFF COUPONS 
• f.,··.1JLY <;J/l PillA •lh 
1PERSONALIZED METAL BUCKET 
''•.lli•lll•'lllltlil 1 '11\l~ 
IIIJIII\,_ ­
lllil I J•illll!l Wllh lhll!lt' 
':i 
• •d !.•I• od IIII·IUIP·hhljl, 11 \1 
......... 5.7.95 j A $13 Value!! '..ttfl"" 
Game Room NOW OPEN 
Hickory Rd. onlv 
pinball foosball 

COLLEGE NIGHT 
.Sunday 

show college I.D. & ge $1.00 off 16" Family -~< size Pizza! 
D ' 

401 N. Hickory Rd. T&C 31N. at Darden Rd 

jazz at the nazz 
N.D. Jazz Combo (9-12) 

B.E THERE!! 
The Nazz will be open six nights a week, 8-12 Monday thru Thursday and 9-2 Friday and Saturday. The Nazz has been equipped with stereo equipment to provide continuous music courtesy of the Sound Room. . The Nazz features food, drinks, lively conversation and lots of mellow music. 
Future attractions--Feature Artist Nights Drama in the Nazz Album Hours Comedy The 21 00 Club The Nazz Deli Talent Shows Poet Readings 
' I 1 • ;~· 





nazz 

Friday, january 28, 1977 the observer 
Alumni Association holds annual conference 
by Peggy Schumaker 

The National Board of the Notre Dame Alumni Association met at the Center for ContinuingEducation last weekend for their annual winter conference. 
The 19-member board, repre­senting 57.000 alumni was addres­sed by a number of university officials on varying topics. 
Among the speakers was Dr. Thomas P. Bergin, who presented a program entitiled "Continuing 
Education for Alumni.'' The pro­gram is scheduled for July 25-28. Alumni, and friends will be invited to participate in a four-day seminar, focusing on two books, Fr. Hes­burgh's The Humane Imperative and An Inquiry into the Human Prospect by Robert Heilbroner. 
Faculty participants in the sem­inar will be Msgr. John Egan, director of Social and Pastoral Ministry; Ralph Mcinerny, profes­sor of philosophy and novelist; and Bernard Morling. professor of his­

,., 
•.''• 
NOTICE 
Informal 'lalherin'l ot _students and professors ot the-Sociolo(ly Dept.
7:30 p.m., Feb. 4, International Student's Loun(le, LaFortune. 
YOU CAN STILL SIGN UP FOR THE WED. EVE. FAST BY CON­TACTING THE COLLECTORS OR VISITING THE STUDENT ACTIV­
jects are comin(l. Applications may 
ITIES  OFFICE  IN  LAFORTUNE  
UNTil, FRIDAY.  
ATTENTION!  CILA  summer  pro­ 

be picked up in the Volunteer Service Office in LaFortune. For further information call Mark at 233-3613 or Lee at 1504. 
Need typin(l? Professional Typin(lService . Top Quality Convenient Location. 232-0898 
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND $20 150. 1 day wait. 1 percent interest. Due in 30 days. LaFortune Basement. M-F 11:15-12:15. 
Typin(l. $.35 a pa(le. Call Dan 272-5549. 
Accurate, fast typin(l. Mrs. Donoho. 232-0746. Hours: 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. 
Quality, licensed day care . Infants, one and two year otds, First United Methodist Day Care, Inc., 333 North Main St., SB, Mondays-Fridays, 6:30 a.m.5:30 p.m. Call288 1168. 
USED BOOKS. BOOK BARN. 1 mite north ot Notre Dame. 272-5520. 
Greyhound bus to Chica(lo. Leaves Main Circle every Friday at 5:45 
p.m. Call Tom at 8338 tor reserva­tions and further into. 
FRESHMAN COLLOQUIUM It you've si(lned up, a senior will be callin(l you this week. It you haven't si(lned up, look tor si:JnS in the halls announcin'l information meetin'lS to be held thi.s week and this weekend. Get involved! 
ADULT ED.UCATION CLASSES start Feb. 7th Be'linnin'l & advanced Sewin:J, Knits·, Taitorin:J, Draperies and Home Accessories. FEE $7.50 12 weeks at one ni:Jht per week.' Re:Jistration forms in Observer ott ice or phone: 288.1261 ADULT EDUCATION DEPT. South Bend Community Schools. 
FOR RENT 
Need one housemate. Own bed­room, close to campus, $50 plus third utilities. 287-2702. 
Completely turn ished houses ran(l­in'l from two to seven bedrooms av-ailable for summer or next Sept­ember. Call 234-9364. Mrs. Hum­bu:Jer. 
2 rooms $40 a month. 233-1329. 
LOST & FOUND 
Lost: Keys lost between Alumni, South Dinin:J Hall and Morrissey at noon on Sunday. Call Charlie at 3537. 
FOUND: Sun(llasses outside Flan­ner Dec. 18. Call Petz 6970. 
Lost: Nickel-plated fountain pen between Farley, Mem. Library and O'Shag. Call Maureen 6825 or 1715. 
Lost': Silver Cross pen Moreau Hall Rm. 228 Thurs. Jan. 20. Call Rick 683 0956. 
Reward tor the return of jacket lost at Sporka's ott-campus party Sat., Jan. 22. Dark blue nylon with oran:Je and white trim. Also gloves and contact case in pocket. Call 1380. Will pay$$. 
Lost left brown ski glove Sat. night at Library or Nickies. Call Geor:Je 3365. 
LOst a Cross pen and an assi(lnment book. Call Tom 7843. Thanks! 
Found: Beautiful pair of mittens at the NO Bus stop in phone booth. Call 234-6623 evenings. 
Lost: silver wire frame eyeglasses. Lost in O'Shaunessy on Friday, 21st. Reward for return. Call Ken, 3051. 
lost: My new Christmas present from Uncle Herbie . a red stocking hat -possibly on shuttle bus. Call Tom at 288-9916. ·· • 
WANTED 

Need ride to Lafayette, Indiana this Friday. Will share expenses. John 1689' 
WANTED: 2 Fordham tix. Call John 1747. 
Wanted: 35mm SLR camera. Call Dan 3315. 
Need two tix for Dayton (lame. Call 
6153. 
Need 4 Fordham tix. Call Don 8470. 
NEEDED: 3 South Carolina tickets. 
Call 6931 ask for Dan. 
FOR SALE 

AUDIO COMPONENTS WHOLE­
SALE!!Top name equipment. low­
est prices anywhere 283-1056. 
Skis, Hart Freestyle, 195 em., excel­
lent condition, call 277-3762 nites till 
midni(lhl. 
STEREO for sale . Brand new never been played. Marantz receiver, Garrard turntable, Dyng phase speakers. Askin(l $375. For info Bill 8658. 
For Sale: HEAD 360 skis, 68 inches lon:J. Solomon bindings. $85. Hu­manic ski boots. Size 7. $25. Excel­lent condition. Kathie 287-0759. 
AUDIO OUTLET: top name stereo equipment. Wholesale. Call 283 1181' 
CALCULATOR LITRONIX 2260, paran 1hesis, scientific notation, AC adapter, $25.00. Renny 7018. 
Real Estate: For sale: 38 acres. Three Rivers Michi'lan. 150 rods of tronta:Je. 616-968-3212 after 6 p.m. 
PERSONALS 

Stop by the Senior Bar before the game Sat. and get some lunch. Hot dogs in beer-$.50 
May 16,1975. Frodo Baggins was in lnnsbruck. Where were you? 
Need a friend? ND-SMC Hotline 4-4311 open nights. 
Ladies-get yourself beers for $.30 and mixed drinks for $.50 at the Senior Bar tonight!! 
SINGLE, try Matchmaker for a new way of meeting other singles. Write 
P.O. Box 214, Mishawaka, Ind. Enclose a stamped envelope. 
Do you want to be a Catholic? Notre Dame ·Catechumenate Program.Call Campus Ministry 283-6536 or 283-3820. 
40's porthole is now closed for the season. Erwin, Keebe, Livanne, Minnie, Moey, Pissie, Sleepy Sau­sa!)e, Tut, Twag. 
The roses on my birthday were beautiful. Whoever you are, thanks! love, Barbi. 
Ladies: Tonight is ladies night at the Senior Bar. One free drink for everylady that shows up! 
Ann, Chris, Erin, Mare, Moey, Meb, · Ta:Jgariy and Patty. Thanks for everythin'l, except the lemon­ade. Y'all are-the ~realest. Barbi 
Dear Kevin from Fayetteville, The Kelly's send you their love. P. S. Did you hear the Arley Hotel in manlius closed down? 
---------.----~----­
Dear Number 60801, Are your friends avoidin;:J you? I found yourlaundry card in front of the South Dinin'l Hall. Laundry number 60801 Patty ·7995. · 
CONGRADULATIONS DR. SEGER­SON!!! 
Welcome to ·Notre Dame, Sheila! Your Roomies 
tons of fun at 60 i Saturday· Night. . The Corby Gang-
SAILORS, The election banquet is tomorrow at 802 Sarin St. Ti.me is 8 
p.m. and cost is $3 for dinner and beer. 
FOUL Board of Directors Meeting . Friday 5:30p.m. Contact Ch.a(rman. 
tory. Dr. John J. Lyon, chairman of answers about Notre Dame and its grams. according to John Cackleythe General Program of Liberal future. Vice President for Public executive of the Alumni Associa­
Studies and Dr. James Powell, Affairs and Development Dr. 
tion. "The Board informs theassistant director of the CCE are James Frick and Richard Willemin, University about the association'sthe coordinators of the program. director of Placement Bureau, also programs, and individual membersUniversity President Fr. Theo­gave reports in their fields. 
channel ideas into their respectivedore Hesburgh participated in an 
The Alumni Boa~d is primarily regions and clubs," he said. informal session of questions and 
concerned with Alumni Club Pro-
Free Univ~Jrsity classes open with 'Mixo,logy and Bartending' 
by Denisa Lynk the course there will be an actual "We feel that after we complete 
The Free University classes, mixing lab for the students to this course we will have the 
sponsored by Notre Dame and participate in. knowledge to open our own bar and 
Saint Mary's. began Monday night Volpe commented that the Free make a fortune." 
with the introductory session of University is a good idea and stated Charlie 1'.1oran. a senior at Notre 
"The Art of Mixology and Bar-that "it will give ideas to students Dame. originally concci\L·d the 
tending." and provide them with other fields idea of a Free Univcrsitv. Moran 
The first class. in which 200 are to look for summer jobs in. perhaps commented that "people. 11·anted tu enrolled, acquainted the students even bartending." Volpe stressed know other things" and added with various bartending terms. that the classes are "meant to be "they shouldn't have to pa_v for The course is taught by Philip serious. and are not a joke.·· these things.·· Moran statL·d that ir. Volpe. a Notre Dame senior. When asked why he was taking was difficult to get people to otTer 
Volpe's qualifications as in-the class. Vince Keszei, a Notre their time to teach the cla~st'\. 
structor include two years experi-Dame sophomore, said, "I read the especially the teachers. Nint'll 
ence as a bartender and a liquor bottles when I drink and I always percent of the Free Univer... it~ 
store employee. wondered what some of the things teachers arc students here. 
The bartending class will cover meant. Now I'll know. I also want Moran stressed. "There is a the differences in alcoholic bev-to be an excellent bartender." definite need for these clas'>cs. erages and organization behind the Peggy Dahm and Mary Jane Over 1800 people signed up. bar, emphasizing proper measure-Gauer, both from St. Marv's, said demonstrating an interest among ment of ingredients. At the end of they are taking the class because. the students in the classes.··

·--------•••CLIP AND SAVE •---------· 
II DELIVERY SERVICE II 
I ~ I 
I 1 Notre Dame--St. Mary's 1 I I I
DELIVERY SERVICE
I I
NOTRE DAME. ST. MARYS-MOTELS u.s. 31 NORTH 
I I I I I I I I I I I I I ~ I I ~ ~ I I ffi ~ I I ~ ~ I I 8 ~ I 
w ffi ~ 0
> > c
<C ...J 0 2 "'0 
en ~ ~ > c ~ ~ ~ z 
~ 8 j 3.94 .58 ~ c 
~ ~ u 00 
c.. ~ ~ <( )>
::J ~ ,_ ~ <
o <( ~ 2 m 
• ~ 5 I
I 3 ~ I I ~ ~ I I ~ ~ I I ~ ~ I 
0

I ~ YE vli:!E DELIVERY scHEDULE u I 
-CHICKEN MENU TOSSED
::;) GREEN 48e Sun.-thru-Thurs. o I
I 0 SALAD . . Every Hour Starting 2I ~ SINGLE. . . . . . . . 2.'74 SPAGHETTI 5:30 thru 10:30 I .._ (5 pes. pius chips) SKILLET $1.73 Fri. & Sat. DOUBLE · · · · · · · ·4-1>6 Garlic Bread I
I (9 pes. plus chips) Every Hour Starting FAMILY ....... 7.:16 HHOERTO $ 5:30thru12:30
1_

I (15 pes. plus chips) 59 1I MO-JO's . . .n SANDWICH I 
2313 Edison Rd.-Corner Edison & Ironwood 
I 

Phone 289-5556 1 Ask for Delivery Service I
I 

I I I I I I 
I I
ABOVE PRICES PLUS STATE SALES TAX & 50c PER STOP DELIVERY CHARGE
I I
·-MINIMUM DELIVERY $3.00­
~....~~·•••••CLIP ·AND SAVE----------­
...r----8---t-_~---~-o-_b_s_e_r_v_e:~r~~~~~~~~F_--r_i_d_a~y-, ~a-n-ua-ry-2-s-,-,97_7__ ---­
! Rich Branning -a smooth transition 
b.'-Frank LaGrotta Sports Writer 
The transltton from high school to college can prove to be a very tning experience for many Notre Dame freshmen. Leaving behind familY and friends and adopting a nc\\ lifestyle complete with strange pc·oplc and increased academic prcs.,urc arc just a few of the problems facing the rookie at Notre Dame. Add to that the extra prc'"'''rL' of participating in varsity athktic.., and you've prepared quite an "" ,_.~omc challenge. Freshman h:,~k,·;ball pla~·er Rich Branning is nlc'l'ling that challenge head on... .o1-1d th1ing rather well at it. 
Cnming to South Bend from his home in Huntington B<:~ach. Calif.. Hr<tdlling arrived at Notre Dame "irl•.111 impressive set of statistics. .\11 11utstanding player in high .,,·lltlnl. a\Traging over 27 points per game with his name on prac·tic-all~· everyone's All-Ameri­can li'>t. Branning was one of the most sought-after high school bas­ketball prosepcts in the countrv. With schools such as Michigan. Aritnna. Sou thnn Cal and UCLA Hing for his talent. he chose Notre Dame bec·ause he felt that the ~dwol "had the fll'"' to offer him both a., a ~tudent ~111cj an athlete." 

··1 wa~ looking f<lr certain things in a -.chool: the mo'->t imporrant being ;!c·adcmic\ bcutu~c I reali~:e that .'·ou can't pia~· ba.,ketball all your life." Branning said. "I wanted the opportunity to get the best educa­tion that I possibl~ could. Notre Dame offered me that opportunity. A!> far as athletic!>. Notre Dame was reall~· appealing primaril~· because I thought I could fit into Coach 

Phelps' style of play and that I could develop a good player-coach relationship with him. I think that's important; after all, if you are going to play for a man for four years you have to be able to relate to him and get along with him. The campus. the great basketball facil­ities and the super fan-support for the team also played a big part in my decision. I was impressed with all the schools I visited, but when I left Notre Dame I knew that I wanted to come here." 
Looking back on the first semes­ter, Branning feels his.decision was a wise one. 
"I think I made the right decision." he savs'. "As far as academics are concerned. I am really impressed with the school. It really challenges you. Also, I've met a lot of great people from all over the countrv. which is one of the advantages-that Notre Dame offers since it is sort of a national institution. If I would have stayed out west. at UCLA for instance. I would have met people primarilv from the same area anrl hack­
ground as mvself. I believe that college should be a growing exper­ience. and I think that Notre Dame provides a person with an excellent opportunity to grow." 
While realizing the importance of hi~ accomplishments on the bas­ketball couTt. Branning places eljuttl empha~i~ on his accomplish­ments as a person. This cmpha..,is stems from his strong Christian faith. A memhcr of the Fellowship of Christian Athletes on campus. he believes that his faith offers him a means of coping with the pres­sures that a person in his position must face. Rich Branning has made the transition from high school to 
"It helps me keep everything in rollege life with ease. 

Whitley captures Lombardi 
HOUSTON [API-Mammouth Wit­

Pace's Picks 
son Whitley, a key in the defense that helped the Houston Cougars return to national football promin­ence. Thursday was named winnerLooking for another outlet for my prognosticative powers, I am 
of the 1977 Vi~ce Lombardi Award
continuing PACE'S PICKS by entering the realm of collegiate basketball. 
as the nation's outstanding college
No exact science is being employed in this endeavor, just this writer's 
lineman.
intu_ition and r_nore than casual observation of the collegiate hoop 
Whitley. a 6-3. 268-pound All­

envtronment. Smce these games are not limited to any one day of the 
American defensive tackle. beat
we_ek. as i~ the case with football, I will attempt to forecast the important 
out three other finalists for the 
or mterestmg matches for the upcoming week. Here are my initial choices: 
honor at a $100 per plate dinner FRIDAY benefiting the American Cancer Societv.
UCLA over USC by IS points -This game used to be one of the better 
Oth~r finalists were Notre Dame

matches on the collegiate hardwood. but the USC squad has fallen in 
defensive end Ross Browner. Texas 
stature. The Bruins seem to be moving towards another Pac-8 title. 
A&M middle linebacker Robert SATURDAY Jackson and Pittsburgh nose guard AI Romano.
Kentucky over ALABAMA by 6 points -Though the game is in 
Browner had been considered

Tuscaloosa, the Wildcats' superior size should turn the Tide. Seriously, 
the favorite since he earlier was
Kentucky has one of the largest teams and they should wear down the 
named winner of the Outland
smaller. yet quicker. 'Barna squad. 

Trophy. which also honors the
North Carolina over CLEMSON by 2 points -This should be another ACC 
barnburner with the Tigers holding the home floor advantage. The Tar ................ 
that his charges need this game if they are to have any shot at an NCAA tournament bid. That may keep it close, but the Warriors are too much for DePaul to handle. 
i NOTRE DAME over Fordham by 20 points -The Rams have changed since Digger was there and it has been for the worse. Many of the older pla~·ers have walked out on first year coach Dick Stewart, leaving him with 
~ 
many unproven underclassmen. The SWAT squad should see double duty 
in this game. PRINCETON over Penn by 7 points -This rematch is in the Tigers' lair, Jadwin Gym. For that reason and also because of Penn's inconsistency, 
i 
Princeton gets the nod in this one. 

USC game and they may be a bit down. Watching the Vols' Ernie Grunfeld and Bernard King face the UCLA duo of Marques Johnson and David Greenwood should be most interesting. 
i 
MONDAY 
i
CINCINNATI over Memphis St. -The Bearcats are back on the winning track and they are playing at home. The Tigers (an extremely popular nickname) are in the top twenty, but they are not up to this task. 
: 
TUESDAY 
NOTRE DAME over Dayton by 13 points -Former Flyer Johnny Davis is now in the "play for pay" ranks and the Dayton fans are somewhat 
•+remorseful. Bill Paterno may be able to practice his full court heave, hopefully from in bounds this time. •
• 
THURSDAY : 
nation's outstanding college line­
man. 
The Lombardi Award is named 

for the former Green Bay and 
Washington coach who died of 
cancer. 
Former President and Mrs. Ger-aid Ford were special guests at the dinner and each spoke to the capacity crowd of 1.200. Comedian Bob Hope was guest speaker. 
Track meet at 6 
The starting time for tonight's track meet has been changed from 7:.10 to 6. The Irish host Bowling Green. Indiana Tech and Chicago Circle in the ACC. The meet marks the openning of the indoor season for Notre Dame. 
_................................~
_ 
Heels should rebound from Wednesday night's loss to Wake Forest. Marquette over DEPAUL by 4 points-Blue Demon coach Ray Meyer says STUDENT UNION SOCIAL COMMISSION PRESENTS
i 
:• 
~~ N.D.'s first Annual ! 
~'1' ~~ ·~Q;· ~·~ ~~~ 
SUNDAY 
: ~,._-q-t; ~'V q;.TENNESSEE over UCLA by I point -This game will be televised from the Omni in Atlanta. The Bruins have a long cross-country trip following the 
i ~ ~~'Q ~'V 


'11 ~'Q 

proper perspectiVe," Branning re­lates. "I believe that I was blessed with a talent and it is my job to develop and use that talent to the best of my ability. The only time I get upset is when I don't use the talent that I was given. I realize that I am going to have bad games. everyone does. But if I go out and play the best game I am capable of playing then I can walk out of the lncker room with my head up." 
Like all freshmen. the Irish guard has certain goals in sight for his future both at Notre Dame. and after he graduates. 
"The most important thing to me, athletically. is to be a part of a National Championship team here at Notre Dame." he said. "Person­al accomplishment on the court is secondary. Helping the team win is what's important. Helping the team win a national championship.. well that would be super." 
Academically. Branning is con­cerned with receiving his degree . although at the present time he is unsure as to what field he wishes to enter. 
·'The competition here is really 

stiff." he notes. ''but I want to 
work hard and get my degn:e. 
That·~ something no one can take 
awav from vou." 
While no.t an immediate priority 

of his. he would be interested in the 
opportunitY to play profc%ional 
basketball. 
"Playing pro b~1ll has been a 

dream of mine \ince I was young." 
Branning admih. "but I'm sure 
e\Try guy on the team has that 
same dream. Healisticallv. I am 
aware of the fact that only a small 
percentage of college ball players 
ever realit.es that dream. I'm going 
to give it my best shot because it is 
something I feel I have to do. but. 
no matter what. I'll alwavs have m\· 
degree if the opportunity to pia~· 
pro ball doesn't materialize." 
After a brilliant 7-0 start this 

season, the Irish were beset bv a 
period of four straight losses which 
saw them fall from a number two 
national ranking. out of the top 20. 
Branning is confident that the team 
will get back on the winning track. 
"We have excellent talent and coaching." he observes. "What we have to do nm\· is utilize it like we were at the beginning of the season. If we hang together and execute like we have shown that we arc capable of doing we arc as good 
as any team in the country. We've got to come out ready and play tough from the tip-off to the final buzzer. If we do that. we'll be tough to stop... Displaying a positive attitude both on and off the basketball floor. Rich Branning is already making his mark at Notre Dame. as an athlctc...and a person. 
HALL SNOWi SCULPTURE J CONTEST 
THEME:FAME : 
(famous people, places, things) 

oj 
Judging ]r()daJ)!!!!!!!!!!!!! 

4:30p.m. for more info, : 
Providence over RHODE ISLAND by 7 points -The Friars are one of the :contact your hall pres COME OUT AND : 
best teams in the East, but they will be severely tested by their in-state 
• BE AMAZED•
rival. t..•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••J 





