' 

server 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's 
Vol. XI, No. 123 
SBP Rukavina appoints St. Mary's cabinet posts 
by Marti Hogan Editor-in-Chief 

Vowing that she owed no favors to anyone, Student Body President Mary Rukavina recently announced the names of 12 new student government appointees. 
The Executive Committee, con­sisting of Rukavina, Kathy O'Con­nell, vice-president for Student Affairs; Kathy Hedges, vice presi­dent for Academic Affairs; Stevie Wernig, assistant dean for Student Affairs and Mary Lu Bilek, former student body president conductd the interviews and made the final decisions. 
Junior JoAnn Baggiano will replace Mary Klassen as Social Commissioner for next year. Baggiano, who served on Social Commission this year as Special Events Chairperson, plans to con­centrate on maintaining the same events as the Commission spon­sored this year and to expand the commission to include more people. Each of the approximately eight chairpersons within Social Com­mission would have her own com­mittee, so the same people won't have to be doing all the work." 
While she hopP.s to encourage students to support St. Mary's activities, Baggiano would like to work closely with Notre Dame's Social Commission. "We need a creativegroup and the more people involved, the more ideas we get," she said. 
Mary Ann Fuchs, a sophomore, will take over the position of Co-ex commissioner held this year by Beth Cutter. According to Ruka­vina, the Co-ex commissioner will have more responsibilities next year. A lunch co-ex program is now being set-up to supplement the dinner program. The shuttle bus committee and the calendar committee also will be under the jurisdiction of Fuchs. 
Junior Julie Pellettierewill serve 

as Development Commissioner re­
placing Patti Schirmer. As devel­
opment Commissioner, Pellettiere 
will be responsible for ''anything 
to do with fund raising, such as 
United Way and the Phonathon," 
Rukavina explained. 
Also appointed were junior Betsy 

Bistric, secretary to the Academic Affairs Council; sophomore Mari­anne Frost,secretary of the board of governance; junior Mary Beth Leslie, treasurer of the board of governance and sophomore Beth Leahy. secretary to the student assembly. 
Maria Lisa Magnanelli will re­main Election Commissioner. 
The position of Spiritual Com­missioner, reinstated this year by Rukavina. will he filled by fresh­man Jeannie Ritter. "We'd like to get the spiritual spirit back at St. Mary's," Ritter explained. She hopes to accomplish this by chan­neling the students' "vitality through religious activities. 
In an attempt to fill gaps within government. Rukavina has created three new positions: Sports Com­missioner, Public Relations direc­tor and a special advisor to the executive committee. 
Amy Hartzell, a freshman, has been appointed Sports Commis­sioner. She will be working in conjunction with the new athletic director. Since the director will not be announced until next fall, Hartzell's duties are"ambiguous at this time," Rukavina said. Her main function however, will be as a liason between the director and the students in establishing new sports or clubs for example. She will also be responsible for planning intra­mural activities and tournaments. 
Junior Marv Pinard will serve as 
Public Relations Director. Accord­
ing to Rukavina, "This is a much 
needed position that has been 
overlooked in the past.'' Rukavina 
believes that with one person 
prganizing publicity for the various 
jepartments of student govern­
ment, things will be done more 
efficiently. 
Terry Tuohy, sophomore, will 
serve as an advisor to the executive 
board in the capacity of a "resource 
person or secretary." Students 
may call her with any questions and 
she will serve "as a screen" so 
Rukavina is not bothered with 
detailsthat can better handled by 
the commissioners. 
"Terry was the logical person for 
that position," Rukavina said, 
adding that Tuohy has served in a 
number of government positions in 
her two years at St. Mary's. These 
[continued on page 10] 


Danehy responds to motion 
by Joan Fremeau Senior Staff Reporter 

In a 21-page rebuttal to the University's Motion to Dismiss. Paul B. Kusbach, attorney for James Danehy, point!) out the dissimilarities between this case and the Lewis vs. Salem case used by ·the University to support its motion. 
The hearing on this motion will take place this Wednesday at 3 
p.m. at the Starke Circuit Court in Knox, Ind. 
Calling the University's analysis of the case "poorly filtered and incorrect," the brief states, "Bas­ed, then, upon a clearer analysis of 
H. Michael Lewis vs. Salem Aca­demy and College, the Starke Circuit Court can and must itself determine whether plaintiff's (Danehy's) complaint states a cause of action, without the "on all fours" assistance of the Salem Academy and College case. It simply is not "on all fours." 
Lewis alleged that his employer had a tenure policy to age 70. He argued that his "terminal contract of 1972-3 executed when he was 66 years of age, and the written retirement policy in the Faculty Guide were both altered by cus­toms and usage to provide for de facto tenure until age 70." Lewis tried to recover his salary and other benefits that would have accumu­lated during the four years between the 72-72 terminal contract and his reaching 70 years of age. The court denied he had a right to tenure. 
The first dissimilarity discussed in the brief is that Danehy has one contract, executed Apr. 10, 1972, when he became full professor with tenure, while Lewis had a "series (that amounted to 22) of written one-year contracts which began with the one made in the fall of 1950 and continued thereafter for successive years, to, and including the final terminal contract for the academic year 1972-73." 
Danehy does not have any later contracts "which in any manner" modify or supersede his April 10, 1972 contract, as did Lewis, the brief pointed out. 
A second major distinction be­tween the two cases is that Lewis "sought salary and other benefits which would have accrued to him during the four year period he claims he would still have been under contract even though he had a terminal contract following the one upon which his claim was based," while Danehy "seeks e­quitable relief in the form of an injunction against" the University, the document states. 
Danehy hopes to prevent the University from dismissing him ''based on his permanence of appointment through tenure or from dismissing him without fol­lowing what the Court determines are the appropriate and detailed procedures provided for in the Faculty Handbook." 
Finally, Danehy is seeking free­dom from discrimination, the brief adds. 
Danehy maintains that "the termination of his permanent ten­ured appointment can only be done by the University when it complies 
[continued on page 10] 
Monday, May 2, 1977 


by Tom Byrne Campus Editor 

Although most freshman ath­letes enter Notre Dame with aca­demic qualifications relatively simi­lar to those oftheir classmates, the class rank and test score results of a few fall considerably below the Notre Dame average. 
Admissions Director John T. Goldrick indicated that no statisti­cal minimum standard exists for the admissions evaluation of any student, including scholarship ath­letes. According to Goldrick, each applicant's "total file" is consider­ed, and the results of the Scholastic Aptitude Test (SAT) are "only one part of the total picture." 
Information obtained by The Observer reveals that 25 of 30 freshmen football players on the Monica Smith holds her winning prize from the ping-pong drop yesterday at St. Mary's as Eileen Lynch watches a stray ping-pong ball fall from the sky. [Photo by john Calcutt] 
Scholarship athletes 

'Total picture' examined 
average finished in the top third of their high school classes, scoring an average of 946 on the SAT. Combined math and verbal scored ranged from a high of 1250 to a low of 490, with six players recording a total of less than 800. Freshmen hockey players performed better on the exam, averaging a total of 1146, 
1 ranging from a high of 1330 to a low of 750. They also finished on the average in the top quarter of their classes. No data was available on freshmen basketball players. The freshman class average on the SAT according to the admis­sions office is 1180, 625 on the mathematics section and 555 on the verbal portion of the exam. A total score of 400 is awarded before answering any questions on the test, and points are added or deducted as appropriate. According to Fr. Edmund P. Joyce, executive vice-president in charge of athletics, Notre Dame is unique in requiring its scholarship athletes to take the SAT. "I have heard that we're one of the few schools left that requires college boards for their athletes," he said, adding that the absence of pressure to perform well on the test often led "blue-chip" prospects to approach the exam casually. 
SAT's meliable 

Goldrick noted that admissions evaluates the profile of each candi­date and considers his or her talents and abilities as an impor­tant part of their application. "A truly great University," he com­mented, ''brings together a diver­sity of outstanding people. There are other students, besides the athletes, that have low SAT scores." He cited disputes among educators about the value of the test as a measure of success in college, remarking that some be­lieve the test to be culturally biased. 
Joyce reported that the exam was particularly unreliable when applied to measure the success of , athletes at Notre Dame. "I've been at it for 25 years now," he 
said, "and I've found that there is very little correlation between col-· lege board scores and how the athlete does at Notre Dame.'' He added that there was some correla­tion between how other students performed on the exam and their subsequent academic success but that it too was often unreliable. 
Pointing to the disadvantaged backgrounds of the majority of athletes with poorer academic qual­ifications, Sports Information Dir­ector Roger Valdiserri stated that the University has a "social re­sponsibility" to assist the under­privileged. He explained that many athletes are never placed in an environment conducive to study, and as a result compiled inferior academic records. Notre Dame frequently offers such disadvan­taged individuals their first ge­nuine opportunity to learn, accord­ing to Valdiserri. 
"What challenge is it to the University to educate the top five percent of -the kids across the country?" he asked. "The real challenge is to bring in disadvan­taged people and do something with them." The admission of athletes with this type of back­grounds, he said, constitutes one part of an effort in this direction by the University. 
Valdiserri echoed Joyce's view concerning the high school exper­iences of highly-recruited pros­pects, commenting that substan­dard academic records were under­standable since many athletes, particularly those with disadvan­taged backgrounds, concentrated principally on athletics. 
Desire-to learn Important 

"You can't measure desire to succeed mathematically," Valdi­serri said. "I've seen kids come in with board scores of 1100 and fall flat on their face." He added that others with SAT scores ranging from 500 to 600 had performed well once admitted. 
Beside the basic curricular re­quirements necessary for any stu­.[contfnued on page 11] 
the observer Monday, May 2, 19n 
,-.-Qn Campus Today----.... 
9 am-11 am coupon redemption, door 2, laundry plant, continues &1 pm-3 pm through may 6. 
3:30pm 
4:TS pm 
4:30pm 
7:30& 10:30pm 
8pm 

colloquium, "a theological exploration into the vatican document on the ordination of women," by rev. david burrell, esc, chairman, theology depart­ment, sponsored by theology department, faculty lounge, memorial library. 
peter c. reilly lecture series, "giving your lumps in industrial kinetics," by dr. vern w. weekman, jr., manager, reforming and special processes develop­ment, mobil research & development corp., pauls­boro, n.j., sponsored by department of chemical" engineering, radiation laboratory conference room,·
lcontinues may 4 and 5. 
lecture, "development and evaluatton of new 
methods for elliptic partial differential equations," i by dr. elias n. houstics, purdue university, , sponsored by math department, room 226, computer 
center& math building. 
film, "the seduction of mimi," by lina wertmuller, sponsored by cinema 77, engineering auditorium, admission $1. 
I 

concert, "the splendor of brass," by the nd brass: ensemble, washington hall. 
Harvest House mobilizes elderly for self-development 
(continued from page 4] October, at which candidates for also sponsors such non-course of­statewide office were invited to ferings as films, tours, concerts, speak, as an example of the kind of discussions, workshops and a, political activity which attracts 
weekly lecture series. 
Sr. Madeleine Adamczyk is exe­cutive director of the Forever Learning Institute. Adamczyk, her 1 assistant, Judy Deardorff, and two · others on her staff constitute the only paid workers on the institute's staff. Celebration, political 
action stressed Putz calls the recreation and celebration aspect of the program "constructive and challenging." ­Harvest House, he said, "openly condemns the notion that old age is nothing but a 'glorified playpen.' 
or  that  care  of the  aged  means  
simply  to  entertain  the  older  
folks."  

"There are all kinds of opportu­nities to celebrate and we use them all," Putz related. Birthdays and anniversary celebrations give older people occasions to get together socially and for many of them, it is their only chance to get out the good clothes that have been hang­ing in the closet and really dress up. he said. Group theater trips and lectures can also be arranged, as well as bus and plane trips. Harvest House groups have gone to the Grand Ole Opry. the tulip festival, in' Holland,Mich .. Chicago, Disneyland, the Wisconsin Dells and out in the East for a bicenten­nial tour last year. 
Mobilizing the vast political po­wer of the elderly is another goal of Harvest House. As a fast-growing minority with a good voter turnout record. the elderly have the poten­tial clout needed to make their voice heard. Harvest House en­courages its members to procure by their vote adequate care and atten­tion from government agencies for themselves and for others who are in need. "We want the politicians to know what the needs of the elderly are.'' Putz said. 
He cited a forum attended by . 

2.000 elderly in Stepan Center last 
*The Observer 
Night Editor: Debbie Dahrling Asst. Night Editor: Paula Carroll Layout Staff: Denise Persing­er, Drew Bauer, joe Bauer Editorial layout: Mike Richter Features layout: Dave O'Keefe Sports layout: Paul Stevenson Typists: Sue Shellenbarger, Anne Giere, Mary Ann Keefe, Leigh Tunakan Early Morning Typist: Karen 
Chiames Day Editor: Jack Pizzolato and Marian Wicny Copy Reader: Pat Cole Photographer: John Calcutt 

attention in Indianapolis. The event 
was sponsored by the Northern 
Indiana Older Adults Legislative 
Forum, which keeps tuned to what 
the legislature is doing and urges 
law-makers to support legislature 
for the elderly. 
Indiana is ranked fiftieth among all the states in use of federal funds to help the elderly, Putz pointed out. He attributed this to Governor Otis Bowen's reluctance to start -programs on federal funds that the state may not be able to continue after three years if federal money 
runs out. 
"Harvest House is not just a 

center--it's a movement. We try to 
reach out to others and get them on 
the job," stated Putz. He explain­
ed that he sees in the elderly a 
tremendous reservoir of talent, 
responsibility and power. 
"All this talent and all these 

skills must be recognized and 
respected. People of this caliber 
can continue to shift for themselves 
and to simultaneously serve those 
less fortunate than themselves," 
Putz affirmed. "Harvest House 
merely went ahead and routed 
them out of their hiding places, got 
them organized into a strong, 
united body and set before them as 
a goal one more beautiful chapter 
in their lives." 


Allard· Lowenstein discusses U.N.· Human Rights Commission 
bv Mark Perry Staff Reporter 

Allard Lowenstein, U.S. repre­sentative to the Human Rights Commission of the United Nations in Geneva, spoke about his ex­periences at the Commission meet­ing and about what he believed came out of that meeting in regards to human rights last Thursday night at the CCE. The talk was part of the Human Rights Symposium held at the Center for Continuing Education last week. 
Lowenstein was also an advisor to Martin Luther King, Jr. and the Southern Christian Leadership Conference (SCLC), and is most noted for his work in blocking the nomination of Lyndon Johnson for the presidential candidacy in 1968. He also served as a congressman from New York's fifth district and while in the House of Representa­tives sought to end the war in Vietnam. 
Lowenstein said that what they 

tried to do at the meetings of the Human Rights Commission was ''to universalize the concerns of the Commission in order to give it some credibility" and "not to point fingers at anybody, but rather to .refuse to exempt anyone from having their situation cliscussed, and through this gaining of credi­bility for the Commission to hope that in some way we could be of some use to some people who were suffering needlessly from external 
causes that could be eased." 
In order that something hopeful might emerge from this Commis­sion, Lowenstein said, "You ought to stand for something, under­standing that the vehicle you are in is limited, and you are not in a position to enforce human rights. 
What you can do is to try and find a way that your convictions can be committed to something that will. raise a sense of humanity, and you will not judge everyone else but hope that there will be areas with everyone where you can cooperate wit~?ut abandoning what you stand for. 
"In Geneva." Lowenstein con-
The Ob~erwr IS publ1shed Monday through Friddy and weekly during the summer w<;s1on, except during the exam and vacat1on penods The 

· Observer IS published by students of the University of Notre Dame and St Mary's College Subscnptions may be purchdsed for $20 per year ($10 pt>r semester} from ThE> Obser­ver, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 Second class postagt> pa1d, Notre Dame, Indiana 465Sb Tht> Observer is a memb!'r of the Associated Press All reproduction nghts art> rest>rv!'d 
A Public Service of this 11!1 newspaper & The Advertising Council ~ 
We're 
counting


onyou. 

Red Cross. The Good Neighbor. 
. . 
tinued, "we have some indications that this approach is coming at the right time and can have a very wide impact at that first stage, changing the atmosphere among govern­ments. Whether it then gets to the next stage, helping people we should be helping, itis very early to try and judge.'' 
"We were going through this mechanical proceedure," Lowen­stein continued, "and it struck me sitting there that this was a ·dreadful way to end, because som"' very hopeful things had happened, and above all there had been candor in the discussions." 
Lowenstein then told about how the representative from one of the other countries, who said that Lowenstein's remarks were "the most peculiar intervention I have heard in all my years of attending United Nations meetings, and per­haps the most useful." 
The representative then went on to discuss what the Human Rights Commission ought to be doing and closed saying "I hope that when we leave this building that we will stop outside for one moment and look back at it and ask ourselves not what have we done for our govern­ments, but what have we done for 
mankin~." 
The mood of the meeting changed drastically after that, Lowenstein remarked, to the point where "people were rushing a­round trading addresses and hugs were exchanged across block lines." Then the chairman, the delegate from Yugoslavia, "went into a discussion of what he hope would happen as a result of the remarkable things that had hap­pened here,'' Lowenstein said, "including that we should meet as human beings to discuss these questions away from government restrictions and publicity so we could figure out whether we couldn't move on from what had happened at this meetine." 
"In the course of th~ Human Rights session,'' Lowenstein con­tinued, "on issues that had never before been dealt with, people talked." 
Lowenstein remarked that his was the first time that the outcome of votes could not be predicted, and that they beat the Russians on votes where the Rus­sians were wrong, to the point where the Soviets and their allies had to attend meetings that they had never attended before. This was due to a fear of losing on decisions that would affect the future of the Commission. 
"If you take these limited possi­bilities and understand them, we are talking about talking, and everyone should be talked about," Lowenstein said. "When the Bulgarians tried to prevent our talking about the Soviet Union," he continued, "not a single unaligned country in the Human Rights Commission spoke up in support of their effort, and we talked about what was happening in the Soviet Union." 


FIN WEEK OF THE NAZZ 
benefit for Logan Center MAY 2 ·MAY 7 
MON anne moriarity 
THURS dave shaheen greg mandolini · 
rex delcamp : michael tsubota 
NO's
FRI 


2ND jazz
TUES j~ck kelleher ed schwallie 
the neon wilde
SAT 




george a~ello 
WED john stienman bill boris kevin chandler burt 



band 
$.50 DONATION MINIMUM 

(be generous, it's tor charity!!) all shows begin promptly at 9:30pm 
"· 


Fr. Hesburgh introduced A. H. Robertson Friday night, and told the topic of President Carter's commencement address. [Photo by Paul Clevenger] 


Brademas criticizes Carter on human rights policy 
by Bob Varettoni Senior Staff Reporter 

John Brademas, Democratic .congressman from Indiana's Third District, criticized the Carter Ad­ministration's implementation of its human rights policy at the conclusion of the Notre Dame Human Rights Symposium Sat­
urday morning in the CCE. 
"I'm not satisfied that there is 

the same concern for human rights 
in April of 1977 that 1 heard in 
October of 197(1," Brademas said. 
Brademas added, however, that 

he is "willing to give Carter more 
time." He also noted that Congress 
can still expect more support in the 
area of human rights under Carter 
than is had under previous admini­
strations. 
"We're no longer discussing the 

question of whether the United 
States should take into considera­
tion human rights in foreign policy 
decisions, but bow," Brademas 
said. "Under Dr. Kissinger, 
human rights was considered a 
very high risk stance, the snubbing 
of Solzhenitsyn being only the most 
blatant example." 
Until recent years, Brademas 

said, Congress has been "rele­
gated to the role of rubber stamp or 
cheerleader" for the incumbent 
administration. According to the 
House majority -whip, Congress 
after Watergate has taken a more 
active role in shaping national 
policy, and this includes issues 
about human rights. 
"Members of the executive 

human rights. "Congress likes what they heard, but they're not convinced that human rights is. going to. stay a firm ingredient in the government policy," he said. 
Fraser discussed several wavs Con,gress can monitor an admini­stration to uphold a standard for human rights in its foreign policy. One way is for Congress to cut military aid to countries whose a¢tions is does not support. 
The restriction put on aid to Korea in 1975 resulted from what Fraser called Congress' "frustra­tion with the administration and its indifference to human rights viola­tions." Fraser also noted that "economic" aid to Chile was cut when Congress discovered the money was used to support a military regime that violated human rights. 
Fraser added that he sees a 
reduction in the need for Congres­
sional monitoring of the executive 
branch under the Carter admini­
stration. He favorably compared 
this administration to the Nixon 
and Ford administrations where 
"confrontation (with Congress) 
rather than cooperation was the 
order of the day." 
Responding to questions, Fraser 

outlined a foreign affairs approach 
he considered "more conser­
vative" than the approaches of the 
other members of the conference. 
In reaction to Cile's recent abolish­
ment of the Christian Democratic 
Party, Fraser said, "Chile may 
have to find a way out of its own 
problems." 
~~o• , . . 
Monday, May 2, 1977 ~ the observer 
~"------­


Robertson talks on Helsinki pact 
by Drew J. Bauer Senior Staff Reporter and Tim Lew Staff Reporter 

Speaking Friday night at the sixth Human Rights Symposium, Harvard University Law Professor, 
A. H. Robertson, lectured at the Center of Continuing Education on "The Helsinki Agreement and Human Rights." 
''The first thing we must accept is that the Helsinki Agreement is not a treaty. It is just a declaration of intention," he said. Robertson added that there were several differences between the declara­tion of intention and a treaty. Among these differences were 
that a declaration is not binding and does not have to be agreed to by the national legislature, while a treaty must be approved by the body. Also, if a country breaks a treaty, they could be tried in the International Court, while a coun­try that breaks a declaration could not be tried. 
''A declaration of intent is just that--a declaration that a country intendsto follow certain principles laid down on paper," Robertson said. 
The law professor then went on to explain the background of the agreement and why the 35 coun­tries signed it. "The main reason that there was an agreement is that the Soviet Union wanted the West­ern Powers to accept its boundary lines which grew after World War 
II. "The Soviets had a lot to gain, and the Western Powers had a lot to lose," Robertson said. 
In order to acknowledge the 

Soviet additions of territory, the Western Powers wanted a universal guarantee of human rights by all the countries involved in the agree­
ment, according to Robertson. 
Robertson said that the Eastern 

Powers only agreed to the issue of 
human· rights because they were 
able to place in the agreement a 
clause that each country would stay 
out of each others internal affairs. 
"Even with the resolution that 

guarantees that a country will 
agree to stay out of each others 
internal affairs, there are laws that 
guarantee the basic fundamentals 
of human rights," Robertson said. 
He said that under two United Nations covenants, acountry must respect the hum.m rights of its citizens, and that a country has a right to call attention to another country actions in breaking the human rights covenant. "So even though the Eastern Block thought that they prevented the Western Powers from calling attention to their internal affairs, the Western 
attention to human rights viola­
tions." 
However, Robertson said that 

several countries involved in the 
agreement have not yet ratified the 
articles, and that the rriain goal of 
the Western Powers should be to 
have these Communist countries 
ratify them. 
Robertson said that the agree­

ment did not satisfy either of the 
parties. "The agreement was more 
widely publicized in Eastern Eu­
rope because it recognized the new 
boundary lines. But they did not 
publicize the human rights caus­
es," Robertson said. He added 
that in the West most of the people 
did not understand it or called it a 
sell-out. ''One might have thought 
that it might have lead to the 
opening of a new round of more 
open discussion between the East 
and the West. But that hasn't 
happened yet." 
Robertson said that although . there were several arrests in the 
East of dissenters, ''the Agree­
ment has had an effect in Eastern 
Europe far more than we expected 
so soon. Because of the agree­
ment, there are new opportunities 
and encouragement to those that 
are ready to fight for their rights." 
In reflection of the future of the 

agreement, Robertson said that the 
Soviet Union is ready to indict 
Great Britain in the International 
Court because of alleged crimes 
she had committed in Northern 
Ireland. "I hope that the Western 
Powers do not cry that they are · interfering in our internal affairs. 
Let us recognize our actions, and 
hope that we can get them to recognize our own." 
Hesburgb tells Carter's topic 

Robertson was introduced by University President Theodore Hesburgh, who disclosed that Pres­ident Jimmy Carter will speak on the issue of human rights at the Notre Dame commencement cere­monies in three weeks. 
Hesburgh said that when Carter spoke at the CCE last fall as a candidate, Carter said that we should be concerned about human rights around the world. and that we have "responded inadequately to human suffering around the world." 
In addition, Hesburgh said that when Carter became President, he made a speech to the world to tell "them that there will be no doubt where we stand on the issue of human rights around the world." 
"In view of this," Hesburgh said, "I have asked that Carter will speak again on the issue of human rights, and he has agreed. Res­burgh added that the White House has asked that the papers of the symposium be sent to the President so that he could study them before 
, his speech. 
: If Carter does talk about human rights, it will be the first such talk since the Soviets refused his SALT proposals. At the time, officials at the scene said that one of the main reasons that the Soviets did not agree to Carter terms was that they were upset on Carter's stand on human rights and his intervention in their internal affairs. 
~-----------~~~~-------------~ 

Cinema~Zi)proudly presents.: 
"The Seduction Of Mimi" Mon. May 2 7:30 & 1O:OOpm Admission: $1 1. 
~L---------~----~-----------~-J 


Fiddler on the Roof " 
... .. ---·­
,"1!e lovtna theatrical hymn · to the Jewl1h people baed on the Sholem Alelchem 1torles 
.. . -"1 

MAY 5.. 6, 7 8:00pm ITH.EATR£· O,laughlin Aud. 
. $"'.SO ($2 std /f )
284-4176 

.1. -•. ac. I 
branch," he noted, "are not always ~·-··MII~IIolntln..u·ed-·o·n·plag..e·9·)..IPIIo·w·e·r·slllldllo·h·a·v·ellllthllelllln•'g·h·t·t·ollllcllal-IIIF!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!.
correct in their assessment of our 
national interests. That's why there's a separation of powers in the Constitution.'' 
Fraser and Cohen speak 

Two other speakers were intro­duced by Brademas. Donald Fraser, Democratic congressman from the Fifth District of Minne­sota, spoke about "Congress' Role in tlie Making of International Human Rights Policy," and Ro­berta Cohen represented the Inter­netional League for Human Rights. 
Fraser and Cohen, Brademas said, "have been working for human rights before the idea of being president was just a gleam in Jimmy Carter's eye, and that's been a long time. 
It is still too early to tell, Fraser agreed, how well Carter has lived u~ to his commitments in the areaof 
Grotto mass tonight at 7 p.m.· 
The University Chaplain, Robert Griffin, will celebrate a mass at·the Grotto tonight at 7 p.m. The mass will be said to commemorate the beginning· of May, the month of Our Lady. The Glee Club will perform and all members of the UniversitY. community are· Invited: : 
You've just fmished one semester's work Iin 10 days, all your cribbies for the upcoming exams are complete... now it's Miller Time. Time to relax & ease your tensions with the best tasting beer around. 



Miller Time 
Wed .May 4  35(;  7-12  
a bottle  
3 for $1  


The World Hunger Coalition 
presents 



-~-~ 



MAY 3 · 4 at 7, 9, llpm engineering auditoriu_m $1.00 

Harvest House offers new outlook on aging 
by Katie Kerwin help older adults come to grips with 
News Editor their condition as citizens who still. 
have a dignity to preserve. a stake Editor's note: This Is the fourth in the present run of things, and article in a five-part series on the even a good many years to cele­Church's ministry to the elderly. brate and enjoy life,'' he explained. Today's article provides a look at Harvest House is a movement Harvest House, an innovative ap· involving about 2,000 older adults proacli to this ministry through aged 55 and over, who have activation of the elderly to work for grouped themselves into neighbor­their own interests and continuing hood units to work together to development. improve the quality, productivity 
and dignity of the lives of older 
"America tends to isolate its adults. aging population as so much 'social Established in 1973, Harvest waste,' " said Fr. Louis Putz House now has ten parish centers founder and executive director of operating in South Bend, Misha­Harvest House in South Bend. waka and Elkhart, with several 
Harvest House is, in Putz's own more in the process of starting. words, "a movement of the aging, The small neighborhood centers by the aging and for the aging, are places where adults can meet seeking in a wholesome coopera-daily, or at least weekly, to tive way what is necessary not only "organize their talents, abilities for the bodily health of older and political power. adults, but also for their spiritual Parish Is focus for elderly and psychological well-being." Putz explained th~t the sites are 
Putz criticized the traditional connected with a Church because approach to ministry to the elderly, the Church still is for many older which neglects many of these people the normal place for gather­needs. "If anything at all is done. ing. Churches usually have empty for the aging, it is merely to rooms available during the middle entertain them, to help them kill of the week and in the middle of the time, and to supply the basic needs day. Putz added, "There is also a of housing food and medicine," he need to develop among the clergy a stated. "True, these needs must specialized ministry to the aging." be answered--but 'not by bread He observed the Church devotes alone' 'does man exist." much of its attention to educating 
He acclaimed Real Services, the its young members, which is Catholic Church's agency to assist understandable. "But the aging the elderly in St. Joseph County in have special needs that also need the areas of medical, housing, attention, and a new pastoral nutritional and related needs, as interest needs to be generated on "one of the best in Indiana." behalf of the aging," he said. These kinds of services are vital to "Hence the clergyman's free time the disabled and poor, he said, but can be profitably utilized during for the 80 percent of the elderly · the daytime hours when the young population, who are "plenty people are in school and the alive,'' more is needed. middle-aged are busy making a 
"Old people are entitled to live living. out their long years in a happy and Harvest House believes that a useful way,'' Putz asserted. "This person can continue the process 9f emphasis will not be recognized learning and developing through­un.Iess the aging themselves decide out his lifetime. "When one's to do something about their situa-working years come to an end, a tion.'' whole new phase begins--a time for 
Harvest House is an attempt to harvesting: a time for exploring 
by Katie Kerwin News Editor 

That Fr. Louis Putz has not withdrawn to a corner to sit in a rocking chair and gather dust since his retirement as rector of Moreau Seminary five years ago should surprise no one. 
His life has been a series of unending, ever-changing activities, dating back to before his arrival in the U.S. from Bavaria at age 14, alone and knowing no English. Sent to America by an aunt in 1923 to become a Holy Cross priest, young Putz waited ten days at Ellis Island while authorities tried to figure out who would be responsi­ble for. him. 
Putz made his final vows here in 1931 and graduated from Notre Dame in 1932, before returning to Europe and his ordination in Paris. The 1930's were a period of involvement with innovative French priests and theologians. But his work with the French Catholic Action movement and the Young Christian Workers was cut short by the beginning of World War II. 
Arrested by the French as a German national, he escaped from detention camp and got himself aboard a British ship without .;howing his swastika-imprinted passport. Return to the U.S. was not , so difficult this time; the immigration officer was a fellow alumnus whose only question was why Notre Dame had lost to Iowa. 
Putz then returned to Notre Dame and took up teaching. As a religious instructor, he organized the Young Christian Students (YCS) movement, operating on the same "Observe-Judge-Act" prin­ciple as the Young Christian Work­ers in France. YCS, which had about 200 active members each year, according to Putz's estimate, advocated the admission of black students from its beginnings in 1940. It also set us the student book exchange, which lasted 20 years, established the Campus Press, organized dances in downtown South Bend and worked to set up the stay-hall system to improve the community spirit in campus dorms. 

As students in the movement grew older and married, meetings moved into their homes, and the Christian Family Movement (CFM) was born. CFM, which was active in the late 1940's and through the 
1950's, supported a stronger family 
and more activity in Church life. 
Shortly after the joint editorship of a book on the reform of seminary education with James Michael Lee, another Notre Dame professor, Putz found himself appointed rec­tor and superior of Moreau Semi­nary. At Moreau, Putz effected sweeping changes, and in the spirit of post-Vatican II renewal, a sys­tem of "maximum freedom with minimum structure" was instituted at the seminary. 
Putz stepped down as Moreau rector in 1972, received emeritus status in 1974 after 35 years on the theology faculty and left the post of head of Fides Publishers in 1975. 
But Fr. Louis Putz was far from through. He took over as director of Family Life Services in the South Bend-Fort Wayne diocese and had soon expanded the Church's minis­try to the elderly by the establish­ment of the Harvest House aposto­late and Forever Learning Institute in South Bend. 
Putz sees his ministry as a sort of continuum. "It so happened that ' the Young Christian Students got . married and started the Christian Family Movement," he said in an I interview with the National Catho· hidden talents; a time to use leisure hours in exciting ways." 
According to Putz, the American work ethic equates· material pro­ductivity with a person's respecta­bility and usefulness. ''The retiree · has to learn how to enjoy leisure without guilt feelings, how to use it constructively and how to discover sociability in a new way. Retired folk need to overcome the hangup of no longer being materially productive and to be re-educated in the use of their time for the pursuit of the spiritual, the aesthetic and the cultural values they never had time for during their busy work 
· years." 
The individual units exercise autonomy within the flexible struc­ture of a general philosophy. For each center, there is a presiding couple, a vice-president, a trea­surer and a task force which assists the officers in planning and imple­menting activities. Delegates from each parish unit (usually the pre­siding couple) and the executive director, the coordinator and the director of the Forever Learning Institute, which is the educational arm of Harvest House, comprise the "Harvest House Council." The council acts as a clearing-house of information among the various centers and as a shaper of policies which will be proposeJ to the individual centers. 
A new parish unit can be· started when a pastor asks Harvest House organizers to come in. Once interest has been indicated from the parish, Harvest House repre­sentatives meet with a group of 20 to 30 elderly parishioners and after a brain-storming session to esta­blish needs and possibilities, plan­ning for the new center gets underway. All residents of the community, regardless of religion, are invited to join. Putz pointed out that Harvest House participation is not limited to Catholics. Two synagogues, 42 Protestant chur-· ches and 22 Catholic parishes are j served by Harvest House. 
Putz remains active ·as organizer~ 
FR. lOUIS PUTZ aged I work with are some of the I same people, moving into yet ; another· period in their lives. You see, it's been the same idea all the way along--people of the same generation working with one another to promote the welfare of themselves and of society at The organization of Harvest 
House is structured to activate the 
potential of older adults to help 
themselves and their community. 
Putz added that while young people 
are welcome to help, it must be the 
elderly who run the program. 
Six-point program 

A six-point program guides .the philosophy of Harvest House: social awareness, self-help and service to the community, religious experiences, educational and cul­tural advancement, recreation and celebration and political power. 
Putz explained 'social aware­ness' as "learning how to be proud of themselves." Society owes re­spect to the elderly and should look to them for the wisdom of a life well-spent, he continued. 
A center encourages its mem­bers to reach out to one another, as well as to others in need of help or companionship. The 80 percent of the aged who are well and active must work for the rest of the old, who are homebound in hospitals or nursing homes, or destitute finan­cially or psychologically, Putz stat­ed. 
Expansion of religious experi­enced geared to the older member­ship of the Church is another goal of Harvest House. "Communal anointing, the new sacrament of the sick, for older adults is now allowed, but both clergy and the elderly need to be educated on the beauty and usefulness of this up-dated sacrament," said Putz. "Creative retreats and spiritual study days, combined with travel and sociability, can also become memorable and meaningful reli­gious experiences. Small prayer groups can be fostered for Bible study, community awareness and 
GAME ......,...., ... 
NOW OPEN Hickory Rd. 
Only 
• 
PINBALL 

• 
FOOSBALL 


COLLEGE DAY 
SUNDAY 
Show college ID & get $1.00 off 16" Family size Pizza 

personal growth. Counseling for the aging needs special attention, as does the need to educate older adults on a positive approach to death and illness." 
Forever I..eamlng Institute 

Fostered by the notion that the possibilities for continuing educa­tion afe limitless, as :well as productive, regardless of one's age, the Forever Learning Institute flourishes as the educational arm of Harvest House. Now in its third year, the institute has a total enrollment of about 750. 
'Students take courses in a curri­culum that ranges from foreign languages and the humanities to typing and piano. Many, but not all of the teachers are retired Notre Dame professors, illustrating the symbiosis which the program's founder thinks will keep Harvest House from becoming something young people do for older people. All of the teachers are volunteers. 
Forever Learning has leased two floors of the mother-house of the Sisters of St. Joseph, located at 107 
S. Greenlawn Ave. In this relaxed atmosphere, classes are held three days a week. Students work at their own pace, motivated by their own desire to learn, and no exams are given. "They love to learn," noted Putz, "and there are never any discipline problems." 
Course offerings include: four foreign languages, philosophy, theology, cooking, retirement plan­ning, tailoring, chorus, bridge. ballroom dancing, history, yoga, piano, photography, ceramics, knitting, crocheting, music appre­ciattion, painting. poetry, typing, business, psychology, Shakespeare and creative writing. The institute 
[continued on page 2] 

large." ·L-----------.,.---=-..,.....,.._----------' 
uation Issue Personals 
Friday, May 20, 1977 Say your sad good-byes so the world can see them! 
10 words for $1.00 
lie Reporter. "Now, among the ;~..~~..~~--~~~--~~~~~,_..-w~~~~~----~~~,.._..~~--~~----il~ 


The Forever learning Institute in South Bend is the educational arm of Harvest House, offering a wide variety of courses to its 750 participants this semester. 
Observer Editorial Editor Maureen Flynn and News Editor Katie Kerwin visited the institute last week to observer the philosophy of lifelong education put into practice. 
Kerwin's article appears on the opposite page. Photographs are by Flynn. 



·' 

"'*The Observer an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's 
The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of either institution. The news is reported as (lccurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters are the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and letters are encouraged to promote t~e free expression of varying opinions on campus. 
BoxQBusiness Manager Sue Quigley Notre DameAdvertising Manager Steve Bonomo Ind. 46556 Production Manager Karen Chiames 

EDITORIAl BOARD 
Marti Hogan Editor-in-Chief Martha Fanning Managing Editor Bob Brink Asst. Managin!;l Ed. Kathy Mills Executive Editor Maureen Flynn Editorial Editor Barb Breitenstein Exec. News Editor Tom Byrne Campus Editor jean Powley St. Mary's Editor Katie Kerwin News Editor Paul Stevenson Sports Editor Pat Cole Special Projects Ed. David O'Keefe Features Editor 
Copy Editor Barb Langhenry 
Photo Editor Paul Clevenger 
Monday, May 2 1977 

seriously folks, 



The House Guest 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii a r t bu c hwaI d 
There's a beer in the icebox. Make "If I'd known this was going to WASHINGTON -In the good old 
yourself at home." be such a big deal," Joan said, "I 'days when your daughter said she As soon as Mickey left the room, wouldn't have come home." was bringing home a friend for the Joan said, "How could you humil-"It's not a big deal," said Mr. weekend, it mean~ she was bring­iate me in front of my friend?" Ripley. "It's a simple question of 
ing home a girlfriend--and when "How did we humiliate you?" moral standards. Ours seem to be your son said he was bringing Mrs. Ripley anted to know. different from yours. The:1 may not home a friend for the weekend it "By asking Mickey to sleep in be better but they are different." 
was a boy. 
the attic when you know perfectly "And that's why you want to This is not the case any more and 
well there are two beds in my ruin our weekend?" Joan asked. 
it is causing tremendous house · room." "We're not trying to ruin yourguest problems throughout the "It's not a question of the weekend, dear," Mrs. Ripley said. 
country. 
number of beds," Mr. Ripley "What we're offering you are Since there is never any mention 
pu_ffed. "There's a ce~ain pro-I separate but equal accommoda­of the sex of the friend on the ; pnety about people sharmg rooms phone, most parents don't know' when they're not married." what to expect or how to handle it. "What propriety?" Joan wanted 
I was over at Ripley's house the 

to know. 
other evening when his daughter, 
Mrs. ~ipley said, "I know we're Joan, arrived home for the week­old-fashtoned and out of date, but end with her "friend"--a tall, your father and I get very nervous 
strapping fellow named Mickey. when we know two unmarried Mrs. Ripley was very flustered people of the opposite sex are in and said, "Well, Mickey, I guess the same room under our roof." you want to put your things away." 
"But Mickey and I aren't "Put them in my room," Joan strangers," Joan protested.said. 
"Whe~e do you think we live in "Mickey can sleep in the attic," 
Cambrtdge?
Mrs. Ripley said nervously. "I don't want to know where you "Why can't he sleep in my live in Cambridge. You're not in room?" Joan asked. Cambridge this weekend! You're 
Mr. Ripley blew up. "Because I in our house!" Mr. Ripley yelled. know he'd rather sleep in the "I thought it was my house,attic." 
too," Joan said. Joan's room is fine with me," "It is your house dear"-but it's
· Mickey said. not Mickey's house. After all•. it "Well, it isn't fine with me," would seem to me you would enJoyMr. Ripley snarled. "Mickey, do one weekend sleeping in your own you mind if we talk to Joan alone? room," Mrs. Ripley said. 
P. 0. Box Q~.-­

Movies 

Dear Editor, 
I would like to clarify a few things which were stated in an article in the April 28 issue of The Observer. I did not realize' when I i met with two members of the . Cinema Series concerning cultural films, that my remarks could be so I misunderstood. I don't think that the statement "I don't like foreign 1 films" is quite the same as "I won't show foreign films." This is especially important since I ex­plained to them that my own personal opinions on movies would ; not determine what films would be shown next year. . 
My position as Movie Commis­sioner, which was presented to the Series people but which was not presented in the article, is that the 1 · commission should provide films ' that people on this campus want to ' attend. I realize that there are . many different opinions on movies, I and the plan of the commission is to : show a wide variety of films. The 
1 commission was not set up to do 1 away with one type of film in favor 'I of another; however, movies that . 
do not receive sufficient student interest, i.e., attendance, should not be shown. 
We have a limited number of dates per semester and try to benefit the most people in the times available. Since there are approximately 40 or more clubs applying for movie dates, I feel that if some films are attended by only a few people, these movie dates could be better used by opening more dates for clubs and showing films that are more widely received by the students. We are supposed. to provide a service to the students · and are trying to do so for as many : people as we can. Cultural films were never being threatened, only . any type of film that was not being attended by the students. The movie commission was set up only to alleviate some of the internal conflicts within Student Union. The purpose is to tie everything toge­ther to come up with a program that will be most beneficial to the 
entire campus. 
Another misstatement in The Observer article concerns my not · trusting ·the clubs. The reason i behind having Student Union col­lectors at the club films is because I there were problems a few years ; ago. Clubs used tocollect money at · their own ftlms; however, when attendance figures were given to 1 the film companies, some figures: 
tions. That's all the Supreme Court as~s of any of us." 
"That's very funny," Joan said. "But al the way down in the car Mickey was counting on sleeping in my room. He wouldn't have come if he _had known he had to sleep in the attic." 
Mr. Ripley said, "He'll sleep in your room over my dead body." 
I decided to intercede. "I have a suggestion. Since Mickey was counting on sleeping in Joan's room, why don't you let him sleep there and have Joan sleep in the attic?" 
All three looked at me. 
Then Mr. Ripley said, "Wait a minute. Suppose Joan decides to come down from the attic in the middle of the night?" 
"It's simple," I said. "Make Mickey promise to lock his door." 
were not accurate. Companies were threatening to not accept movie orders from Notre Dame. It was at this time that everything started being handled through Student 
Union. AlthQugh I never said I do not trust clubs, it really is unimpor­tant. The reason money is collected by Student Union is because the movie companies want some con­trol over the revenue, not because of my alleged lack of trust in clubs. It is a procedure that was set up three years ago when I was not even involved in Student Union. My trust, or supposed lack of trust, was never even considered when the procedure was adopted. 
Bonnie Bona Movie Commissioner 


Minorities 

Dear Editor, 
No where in any of your recent publicity given that confrontation of Black students with Father Hesburgh does one find any men­tion of other minority students on · campus, an example of the treat­ment of Chicano students at Notre . Dame. It is as if ignoring their · presence will make them go away. · 
I 

Betty A. Samora I , ....... Faculty Wife · 
opin io n !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 

In the System 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiidr. 
james stewart 
I am disturbed by the fact that none of the thr~e open letters from 
University adminstrators which appeared in Tuesday's Observer 
addressed the issue of, the source of, and the factors which perpetuate 
institutional racism at Notre Dame. What is most disturbing is that 
these issues were the ones which the concerned Black students asked 
the administrators to address in their letters. 
The seeds· of institutional racism lie in the pervasive ethnocentrism 
that engulfs the Notre Dame community and the continual fostering of 
this ethnocentrism by decision-makers. One factor which nurtures this 
ethnocentrism is the lack of sufficient opportunities for the members of 
the majority to come to know and understand (a) individual members of 
other racial-cultural groups as human beings whose cultures possess 
equal moral status to those of European origin and (b) the collactive 
aspirations of other racial groups if such aspirations exist and differ 
from the majority norm. In other words, the depressingly small number 
of "minority" students, faculty, and staff not only leads to their 
victimization, it also constrains the "humanization" of the majority. 
An appreciation of the functionality of human diversity is not 
reflected by cheering for large numbers of non-whites representing the 
University in athletic contests, nor by making charitable contributions 
to nameless victims of global politics who reside in what has come to be 
known as ''The Third World." Until the issue of the paucity of 
"minorities" on this campus is addressed head on, there can be no 
operational mechanism to guard against the perpetuation of 
institutional racism at Notre Dame. 

Institutional racism is often treated metaphorically by members of 
the majority, but it is not an abstract entity for its victims. As an 
example, following is the text of a communication that I received in the 
mail after the black student protest: 

"Can't you get those Louse-Bound Niggers to quit feeling sorry for themselves? The ignoramuses should realize that they are not going to get any sympathy from anyone who has some intelligence! 
No-Sympathy-Majority'' 
Attitudes such as these do not exist in a vacuum; they require at the 
very minimum a benign environment to survive. The correspondent 
didn't sign his or her name, but if I had the opportunity to dialogue 
with this individual, I would point out that his or her sympathy is not 
what is being sought; it is the provision of equal opportunities and 
services. Moreover, I would point out that it is individuals like those 
whose "humanization" process has been short-circuited that are to be 
pitied. 

In this regard, I also pity the overwhelming mass of students and 
faculty members at Notre Dame who eschew the opportunities to 
accelerate their humanization through the courses and extra-curricular 
activities which project cultural experiences of various non-white 
racial-cultural groups. For those who are seriously interested in 
ascertaining what Black students feel about this stiuation at Notre 
Dame and the factors underlying the recent demonstraton, I invite you 
to read the Black Student Affairs Committee's report on the result of a 
questionnaire administered last year. 
I also pity the Notre Dame community because the information that 
is provided to you by the Administration implicitly perpetuates the 
myth that increasing the number of "minorities" at Notre Dame 
implies lowering standards and admitting "unqualified" individuals, 
while it is admitted privately that it is the University's financial 
priorities that limit the number of minority students matriculating 
here. 

The seeds of ethnocentrism and consequently of institutional racism 
of Notre Dame do not "creep in" when our vigilance is less than 
adequate; they are integrally bound up in (1) existing course selection 
procedures including academic counselling services, (2) the existing 
recruitment process and admissions mechanisms, and (3) the 
structured and voluntary patterns of associations implicitly and 
explicitly encouraged by the University. We will have made a 
worthwhile beginning toward addressing the problem when large 
numbers of individuals, influential and otherwise, take periodic 
voluntary non-absent actions to eliminate it without being prodded by 
political actions. 

Editor's Note: Dr. Stewart is Director of the Black Studies Program at Notre Dame. 
/ 

...,,-,., 
Mon~y, May 2, 1977 the observer 7_ 


NDISMC Theatre 




THE CELEBRATION OF A SPIRIT 
by Dauid O'Keefe 
A bird may love a fish, but where would they make a home together? 
--Tevye 
Wednesday, when I went to rehearsal to get a better idea of what to look for when Fiddler On The Roof opened on Friday night, I was struck by what seemed to me to be an awfully misconceived Brechtian nightmare. It couldn't work, I thought. Dr. Bain is taking the environmental formula way beyond its intended limits. I struggled through the full-cast run-through with my knees perched indolently on the back of the seat ahead of me, staring between my knees at what I was certain 
was  a  well-intentioned  disaster  in  the  
making.  
All  of  this  doomsaying  owed  to  my  

conventional belief that the environmental theater approach best lent itself to small, intimate, soul-baring drudgeries that rely ever so heavily on their ability to impress the audience with the alarming immediacy of the loneliness or decrepitude or vanity or whatever it was parading among and around them. It sometimes worked, I was willing to admit, in comedies or musicals, as long as they didn't risk alientation by over-exertion. But to impose that gel­atinous approach on Fiddler, a show that relies on the rigorous structure of complete illusion for so much of its success, was an unthinkable miscalculation. That is what I thought. 
Although I was miles from the mark, there was unhappily, an element of truth buried beneath my otherwise exaggerated fears. There are problems with Fiddler, for the most part transitional problems that stem from the environmental aspects of the production. The lack of a curtain or blackouts· to punctuate the scenes insti­gates a blend of feelings, an unwholesome mixture in light of the fact that Fiddler relies on the establishment of competing emotions realized in some semblance of scenic integrity. It was precisely this failure in staging that muted the impact of such potentially strong numbers as "Sab­bath Prayer" and "Far From the Home I Love." Although both were wondedully sung, they were staged in such a way that the audience seemed to be left with a listless uncertainty about what they were supposed to feel. 
Another problem arose from David Weber's design of the "pedorming en­vironment.'' Chief offender among the few props was the monstrous, multi-purpose "wagon" that served, at one point or other, as a means of transportation, a resting place, a quiet spot to catch a nap, and a perch for the Fiddler. It is difficult to imagine what was being communicated by having Tevye drag this burden about, looking for all the world like Jacob Marley's ghost trailing a ball and chain. Daniel Daily did all he could to look at least unburdened, but even he couldn't prevent the clumsiness of the thing from turning an otherwise poignant ending into a kind of funeral procession. The "Corner" prop, an anonymous building comer that served alternately as the Inn, the Dairy, and the Tailor's, was cleverly conceived but badly abused, with some pedormers respecting the implied walls and others walking right through them. As far as the scenography in Fiddler is concerned, the scenes that worked best were those that most faithfully adhered to the creation of illusion in its strictest theatrical sense. 
But the problems in Fiddler were neither depressing nor devastating, a fact that owes as much to the natural charms of the show as it is written as it does to the irresistable charms of the show as it was pedormed last weekend. 
Daniel Daily {Tevye) is by now familiar to anyone who has seen a major production in the past few years. He has often impressed me as more of a technician than an actor, turning in pedormances that were as impeccable as they were emotion­ally sterile. But that was before I had seen Daily's Tevye, irrefutable evidence of an authentic versatitlity and artistic imagina­

Tevye's daughters: Bielke (Theresa Richeson), Chava (Mary Oliphant), 
Gau}' Coleman (Motel) once again demonstrates 
Hodel (Joan Martel), Tzeitel (Maura Murrihy), and Shprintze (Pam 
!1 


FIDDLER ON THE ROOF 
The Company The Fiddler .••..••••••.•••.•••..•..••••••Stacy Weaver rrevye .••••••••.••..•......••••.••..•••.••Daniel Daily Golde .•..••.•.• ~ •.•......•••••••.•.••••.Lisa Colaluca Tzeitel ...•....••.••....•.••••.••..•••••Maura Murriliy Hodel .••••....••••..•.••.••••••••.••••••••Joan Martel Clla.va •••••••••••••••.••••••••••••••••Mary T. Oliphant Shprintze•••••••••.•.•••••.•••••••••••••••••••Pam Gay Bielke •.•.•.•••••••••.•.•.••.•.••.••.Theresa Richeson* Yente, the matchmaker •.•...•..•••••••Shevawn O'Connor Motel, the tailor •..•.•••.•.••••••••••••. Sean Coleman Perchik, the student .•...•....••••.•••.••Michael King Lazar Wolf, the butcher ••.•..•.••.•••.••Gary Aumiller Mordcha, the innkeeper •.•.•...•••.•••••••Ed Schwallie Rabbi .•••.•••..••.....••.•...•.•••••.•••Louis Spisto 
Mendel,  his  son ..•....••.•.•..•.••  ·~·  .•• Steve Rodgers  
Avrahm,  the bookseller •••••....•••••••••Byron Maltez  
Nachum,  the beggar •••.•••.••.•.••••••••••Mark Amenta  

Grandma Tzeitel••••..•.•..••.••.••••••••Celeste Volz Fruma-Sarah•••••••.•••••••..•.•..••••••• Carolyn Popp Constable ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••Matt McKenzie Fyedk.a •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••John Walker Sasha ••••••••••••••••.••••••••••••••••••.•• Tim Keogh Yussel •••.••...•.•.....•••.••.•...•••..Xavier Garcia Shaindel, Motel's mother •••.•.•.Lou Anne Catarinella 
The Villagers 

Marty Brauweiler 
*Maria Brown Gemma Capozzoli Joseph Ceci John Clapp Dan Cole Patty Dondanville 
*Bob Ebel Brad Engelland Mark Ferring William Carrick Susan Groeschel Dorothy Hanrahan Cathy Heisler 
Joseph *Featured dancers 
** There will be 
*Michael J. Hudock *Steve Hudock Lisa Jaquez 
*Patricia Kirk Mike McCord Ray McGrath Lisa Murray Th,eresa Rebeck Michele Roberge Joan Skelly 
*Ed Tagge Lisa Turco Cyndi van Wynsberghe Kevin Witasick 
Zilvinskis 

one intermission ** 
tion that I hadn't noticed in past pedor­mances. As his career with the ND/SMC Theatre comes to a close, it only seems fair to call him what he is. He is, in every good sense of the word, a pro. It was a joy to see and hear his art. 
The rest of the cast is composed of solid talents as well as some uncertain abilities. Among the former, Lisa Colaluca and Shevawn O'Connor prove once more in Fiddler that they are as reliable as they are adaptable. Colaluca (Golde) demonstrates a superb sense of balance in her character. Together, she and Daily combine to make "Do You Love Me?" the most happily accomplished song in the show. O'Connor has always displayed a natural ability for comedy, and here she gives Yente, the matchmaker, a dimension that raises her from the depths of caricature to a somewhat more sophisticated level. 
Of the three daughters, Mary Oliphant (Chava) most successfully combines acting and singing. Joan Martel's voice carries her pedormance as Hodel admirably, while Maura Murrihy seems content to play Tzeitel quietly. As for the daughter's lovers, Michael King (Perchik) hurts an otherwise good job with a somewhat stale "Now I Have Everything." John Walker exhibited customary control and precision as Fyedka, but gives an even better indication of his considerable talents with a delightful little piece as the priest. Sean 
1 his immeasurable, precious gift for making his character not so much important or effective as he makes his character endearing. As Lazar Wolf, the butcher, Gary Aumiller is quite entertaining, al­though his notion of stage presence sometimes causes him to bellow and stomp about like an hysterical pirate. 
One of the delights of the show was the ability of some of the pedormers to make forgettable, functional roles things to remember. Matt McKenzie plays the heartless Czarist Constable with an inten­sity and dignity that convinces the aud­ience that he is, indeed, an outsider in Anatevka. It is a difficult role skillfully rendered. Also, watch what Mark Amenta does with Nachum, the beggar; Louis Spisto with the Rabbi; Steve Rodgers with Mendel, the Rabbi's son; and Ed Schwallie with Mordcha, the innkeeper, to under­stand that, on the stage,the part is as big as you make it. 
Although the music occasionally lags, (a phenomenon that seems to stem from a misunderstanding between the voices and orchestra as to who is accompanying whom), it is generally thoughtful and well-done. There is also a wonderfully idyllic ballet that serves very nicely to reinforce the "delicate intimacy of Tevy's "Chaveleh." 
The ND/SMC Theatre production of Fiddler on the Roof goes far in pointing out the underlying philosophy of the program: that a production is meant, not as an intellectual exercise, but as an experience that is, in the end, fun. While there may be aesthetic ideals that I disagree with from the erudite cliffs of the critic, there can be no denial that the audience was in the spirit of the show. From the informal welcoming ceremony, with cast members running through the aisles, shaking hands 
, and saying, "Shalom aleichem, shalom aleichem," ("Peace to you, peace to you,") until Tevye's final farewell, "Shalom aleichem," Fiddler works with and for the audience so honestly and enthusiastically that the audience has no choice but to work with them. It works so nicely that one believes that there may yet 
, be a home somewhere for the bird and the fish together. 
*Observer 

Features 

r----·~---­
8 the observer Monday, May 2, 1977 
Bakke v. Board of Education 
Case raises reverse discrimination issue 
by Bob Mader Staff Reporter 
EDITOR'S NOTE: This is the first of a two-part series exploring the effects on the Bakke v. The Board of Education decision in California and the controversy concerning reverse discrimination. 
A small envelope delivered to the University of California at Davis on November 26, 1972, set into motion the most important legal battle in the field of race relations and minority groups since Brown v. The Board of Education. The envelope which arrived at the then six-year­old institution was an application for admission from a man named Allan Paul Bakke. 

Allan Bakke was an engineer at Ames Research Center in Palo Altn. a National Aeronautics and Space Administration laboratory that tested the effects of radiation on small animals and the effects of radiation on small animals and the effects of outer space on the human body. While working there, Bakke came into contact with physicians who blended their skills with engineering, and he realized he wanted to become a doctor. Bakke took courses in chemistry and biology part-time in order to have the prerequisite pre-med courses. Bakke had one big strike against him--his age. He was 31 in 1971, and although he was advised against applying by admissions officers at several schools, he refused to be discouraged. 
Bakke took the medical college admission tests and scored admir­ably--he ranked in the 97 percentile of all applicants nationally. In addition he had exceptional grades in college, laudatory letters of recommendation, and a well­written essay, spelling out his reasons for wanting to enter medi­cal school. But they weren't good enough. Bakke was turned down by Davis for admission three times: in April1973, again in August and in the following spring. 
Bakke claims he was not admit­ted because· he was white. Davis each year admits 100 first year students into their medical schools, and 16 of those places are specifi­cally set aside for minority stu­dents. The minority students get special consideration: the appli­cants are screened by a different committee, 2.5 grade point aver­ages in college do not automatically disqualify applicants, and MCAT 

Petition supports rights of Soviet dissenters 
by Joe Slovenic Staff Reporter 

Friends of Freedom, a bi-parti­san group which is a branch of the American Council for World Free­dom is circulating petitions to support the Soviet dissident's stand in favor of human rights. They are asking the 35 nations participating in the Belgrade Hu­man Rights Conference next month to insure faithful compliance of the signatories to the human rights · provisions of the 1975 Helsinki Agreement. 
Andy Baan, chairman of the petition drive at Notre Dame, announced that Friends of Free­dom petitions will be circulated during dinner on Tuesday. May 3 and Thursday, May 5. Copies of the petitions will be presented to President Carter, Congress, the 
U.S. delegation to the Belgrade Conference and the U.S. embassies of the countries attending the Belgrade Conference. 
The Belgrade Conference in June will determine how faithfully the signatories of the human rights provisions of the Helsinki Agree­ment have lived up to their word. The Helsinki Agreement was. ne­gotiated in 1975 by the United States. Soviet Union and other European nations to increase co­operation between the Communist and non-Communist blocs. I included provisions for·warnings of troop movements and support of basic human rights. 
The Helsinki Agreement was widely interpreted in diplomatic circles as a tacit agreement that the United States would recognize Soviet domination in Eastern Europe if the Soviets would respect basic human rights in those coun­tries. Much controversy has been generated by the Soviet failure to live up to the Helsinki agreement and their continued harassment of such dissidents as Alexander Solzhenitysn, Andrei Sakharov and Alexander Ginzburg. Since Presi­dent Carter took office, he has been active in criticizing Soviet viola­tions of the human rights provi­sions. 
Baan explained the Friends of Freedom's reasons for circulating the petition. "I think everyone in the world should be guaranteed freedom of speech, freedom of religion, freedom of the press and freedom of assembly as we in America enjoy,'' he said. ''These rights are inalienable, as put by Thomas Jefferson, and everyone in the world should enjoy them. There are countries such as the Soviet Union where people do not enjoy these rights and that is why treaties such as the Helsinki Pact are necessary.'' 
"We back the movement of the 
Soviet dissidents because the So­
viets signed the agreement and did 
not live up to it," Baam added. 
"Anyone who signs these petitions is saying that he believes dissi­dents in the Soviet Union are right and hopefully , these names will put pressure on the Soviet govern­ment through the Soviet embassy to sign and live up to the agree­ment to be voted on in Belgrade." Recent statements from the Soviet government indicated their continued unwillingness to respect the provisions of the Helsinki Treaty in spite of American pres­sure. However. Baan believed the petitions will also support Presi­dent Carter and other human rights advocates who may feel they are 
st11nding alone. He also believes these signatures may help sway countries that are undecided about voting for the Belgrade Human Rights agreement in favor of a strong stand in support of human rights. 
The Friends of Freedom hope to obtain 100,000 signatures in this nationwide petition drive. 

Billy Graham to conduct major crusade May 11-15 
mitment from Graham since his conduct a major crusade May Evangalist Billy Graham will Associate, Dr. John Wesley White, 
11-15, 1977 at the ACC. held a Crusade in South Bend in 
It will be Dr. Graham's first major May 1975. Graham receives about ~vangalistic effort in the Michiana 
8,000 invitations annually to con­area. duct Crusades and to speak at other Chairman ofthe group of laymen · events. Of the engagements that 
and clergymen who invited Graham 

he accepts, on_ly four or five a year to hold the Crusade is the Rev. 
are for major city-wide Crusades. Harry Collier, minister of West-i The five-day event will be known minster United Presbyterian 1 officially as the Michiana Billy Church. Graham Crusade. 
scores substantially lower than the average are acceptable. 
As a result Bakke sued the University of California for denying him equal protection of the laws under the Fourteenth Amendment. He trounced the University in the federal courts. The California Su­preme Court, in a 6-1 decision, ruled the Davis' admission policy is unconstitutional and the Bakke is entitled to admission. Davis has appealed the case to the United States Supreme Court which has agreed to hear the case probably in October. 
Minority groups such as The National Urban League, the National Conference of Black Law· yers, The Midwest Council of LaRaza, and the National Lawyers Guild, are furious. Charles Tur­chick of the National Lawyers Guild said the Guild charges Davis with colluding with Bakke, citing the paucity of the evidence presented by Davis. Director of the Notre Dame Center for Civil Rights Donald P. Kommers termed this charge conjecture, pointing out that Davis, along with the Associa· tion of American Law Schools would probably not take a case to the Supreme Court with the inten­tion of losing. 
James Stewart, director of the Black Studies Program at Notre Dame, noted that currently there are only 15,000 minorities in pro· fessional schools, and that not that many whites would be admitted even if affirmative action programs were struck down by the high court. Forty thousand Americans applied for the 14,000 places in medical school last year alone. "For me the issue is moot,"" Stewart said. "Bakke is a subter­fuge for institutional racism." 
The minorities' arguments are undermined by the fact that Davis did not cite past discrimination as the reason for instJtu= their 



fNOTiCEtil 
I FREE I
I UNIVERSITY I I registration I 
I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I 
I tuesday I 
I ~ I 
I ~ I


Iwednesday I
I I
this week 1Lafortune Ballroom1
1s:3o . 4:30pm 1 I OPEN II TO ANYONE!J I 
QUESTIONS???
I 
call 7638!



I I I

.........~....... 
special admissions program. The Supreme Court has demanded proof of past discrimination in previous cases before ruling on the constitutionality of affirmative ac­tion programs. The Court does this, according to Kommers, so that a violation of Title VII of the Civil Rights Act can be shown, and a court can order a remedy. It would be unjust for a court to order a remedy in the absense of a clear violation of law. "The remedy cannot transcend the problem," Kommers said. 
But Bakke's case, and the cases of others claiming reverse discrim­ination by medical schools has also been undermined. The National Observer recently reported that rich whites are buying their way into medical schools for prices ranging from $5000 to $25,000The National Observer also reported 
--The speaker of the Pennsylvania House of Representatives has been indicted for allegedly extorting $56,000 from parents for his help in getting t their :hildren admitted to medical and veterinary schools. 
--Two other Pennsylvania state legislators face !trial 'or bribery and • conspiracy in similar alleged schemes involving a dental school. --Chicago Medical School in 1973 collected an average of $50,000 a piece from 77 out of 91 freshmen. School officials admitted under oath that the money influenced admission decisions. --UC Davis, also, admitted that the children of wealthy businessmen and politicians have been given special treatment in admission decisions. 
The conclusion of this series in tomorrow's Gbserver will examine the Bakke case's impact on Notre Dame, and admissions and affirma­tive action at the University. 
Maryann O'Neil receives St. Catherine Medal 
by Jean Powley St. Mary's Editor 

Maryann "Roonie" O'Neil. a St. 
Mary's junior. has been named as recipient of the St. Catherine Medal for outstanding academic and service achievements, an­nounced Gail Mandell, St. Mary's vice president of academic affairs. 
A double major in psychology and sociology, O'Neil was chosen from among 20 nominees. She was recommended for the honor by faculty, students; and administra­tion members. 
In addition to academic excel­lence, the Akron, Ohio resident was cited for her participation as an intern in the career development center; her participation as a member of the Psi Chi, a psych­ology honor society; and her par­ticipation as a member of the Maria Pieta Award Committee. She is also a resident advisor in Holy Cross Hall and a member of the varsity basketball team. 
The medal. which is sponsored by Kappa Gamma Pi. the National Catholic Honor Society, had for many years been awarded annuallv to an outstanding sophomore or junior until students' lack of inter­est caused its discontinuance in 1970. However. a significant change in students' attitudes prompted the Committee on Ac­ademic Standards to request the medal's re-establishment this year. 
Dr. John Duggan. president of St. Mary's, will present her with the award Thursdav. May 5 at 5: IS 
p.m. in room 161 LeMans Hall. The presentation will be open to the public. 
"/ HAVE CAU.EO YOU BY YOUR NAME" 
... _BROTHERS OF· HOLY CROSS 
J 

. , "'. RN~"d.IT~~J lblough educational, health, 
· · · social, pastoral and other. aervtce ministries. 
8r. 'Ttunnas Maddix,-CSC· 


Box 308, Notre Dame, IN o46568' ­
From April 1 through June 14, you can fly roundtrip from New York to Luxembourg for only $410. 
That's $89less than the youth fare you'd pay on any other scheduled airline. (From Chicago you pay $458 thru April 30 and $430 from May 1 thru june 14.) All you have to do is be under the age of 26. 
There are no booking restrictions. We give you the same service you'd get from other airlines, without the same high costs. So, if you're not flying Icelandic to Europfe, you're spending more than you have to. We'll give you the best deal on fares and on our New Horizon Escorted Tours, too. 
Savess9 on jet fares 
to Europe and book 

anytimeyouwa11t. 
~---------------------,
Icelandic Airlines, Dept. #CNI P.O. Box 105, ~st Hempstead, N. Y 11552 I I See your travel agent. Or call toll free: (800) 555-1212. I 1 Please send infonnation on Icelandic's low-cost fates anrl New 1 I Horizon E.~rorted Touts of Europe. I 
I Name I I I 
I Ad~r~ss 1 • I City State Zip J ~ LF~::_ubje~o~~:_:n~~-~~v~ _ ---_____.J 






Icelandic 
Lowest Jet fares to Europe of any scheduled airline. 

---------------------------------------, 
Monday, May 2, 19n the observer 
9 

----~~~~--------------~~=-~ 
American Catholics called to support farm workers' rights 
A call for American Catholics to The statement on agricultural "Because of new circumstances 
view farm workers as a "tremen­
labor elections recalled that the which are adversely affecting farm dous resource" and a reaffirmation NCCB took a similar position in workers in certain areas of the of the U.S. Catholic Bishop's 
a 1973 Resolution Farm Labor. nation, and which. in turn, are support of the right offarm workers 
The committee added that ''we creating serious divisions in local to "free secret ballot elections to 
base our present attitude on the communities. we, the members of determine their collective bargain­
wisdom embodied in that (1973) the Ad Hoc Committee for the ing representatives" have been statement.'' Spanish Speaking of the National issued by a leading Church spokes­
Recent issues concerning farm Confet:ence of Catholic Bishops,
man in connection with the Ma:y 1-7 
workers include a dispute with food reaffirm our support of the right of 
observance of Farm Worker Week. 
processors in Indiana and a current the field workers in the agriculture 
In a letter to the other members effort in Texas to repeal the state's industry to free secret ballot elec­of the U.S. hierarchy, Bishop Right to Work law and promoting tions to determine their collective James S. Rausch, General Secre­.legislation similar to California . barganing representatives. tary of the National Conference of statutes establishing guidelines for "We recall that the full body of Catholic Bishops and U.S. Catholic grower-worker relations. the American Catholic Bishops took Conference, said that, as a ''tre­It was in California recently that an identical position in a Nov. 1973 
mendous resource", farm workers 
a decade-long, sometimes violent Resolution on Farm Labor and we should be encouraged and support­dispute between the United Farm base our present attitude on the ed "for the betterment of Church 
Workers and the International wisdom embodied in that 
and society." · 
Brotherhood of Teamsters. statement." As chairman of the NCCB Ad Hoc Committee for the Spanish r--------~~---·­
.......-----·----..1•

I~' 1, 3 4 56 Good thru June 1. 7 8 9 _
Speaking, Bishop Rausch pointed to a committee statement on labor elections reacting to "new circum­stances which are adversely affect­
I; Arby's Studen_t ~~ 
Outgoing Assistant Dean of Students Stephanie was ing farm workers in certain areas of honored at a surprise reception yesterday in Stapleton Lounge at the nation." 
1 Meal Ttcket ~I 
St. Mary's. [Photo by john Calcutt] ­
The statement reaffirmed the committee's support of the right For ~!-_25_ -1
St. Mary's honors Wernig of field workers in the agriculture 
~ 1 Reg. Roast Beef_ 1 Sm. French Fry, ; I
~ 

industry to free secret ballot elec­tions to determine their collective : N 1 Cole Slaw 
U:l
at campus reception bargaining representatives.'' 

1
·L· : 
tt£Ztt ttot6t at£L9t 
The letter to U.S. Bishops asking both positions which are yet to be by Anne Bachle as well as an Athletics Director, 
support for the Farm Worker Week observance advised that the NCCBA surprise reception for filled. 
-USCC Secretariat for the SpanishStephanie Wernig, outgoing Assis­"We felt there were too many Speaking is distributing multi­tant Dean of Students, was held activities the students were forced yesterday in Stapleton Lounge, so to organize themselves without any ethnic materials for the obser­vance. The package includes athat everyone could "have a chance help from the school," said Dr. 
poster, model press release withto thank her and say good-bye to John M. Duggan, president of the her," according to MaryLu Bilek, College, commenting on the former appropriate photos, a resource list, and a prayer card. 
former Student Body President and organization of student affairs. one of the coordinators of the "Now we will be able to have Bishop Rausch asked that a reception. diocesan contact with the Secre­
someone working full-time on stu­All St. Mary's students, faculty, dent activities, with the result that tariat offices in Washington be and administration were invited to hopefully we will have not only established to facilitate local ar­the student-planned event. more activities but also increased rangements for the Farm Worker 
Wernig, who confessed to being participation at all the events." Week observance. "very surprised," is leaving St. Duggan went on to say he was Mary's to return to school for her pleased that W ernig was getting Prof. Gabriel 
doctorate in higher education at her doctorate. "She's .got tremen­Boston College. dous potential, and with her doctor­
to present

A 1968 graduate of St. Mary's, ate she will be even more qualified W ernig has held the post of to serve in an adminstrative capa­Assistant Dean of Students for the lecture in Toronto
city at any women's college." past three years. In an effort to Students who knew and worked 
re-organize student affairs this past with W ernig praised her for her Prof. A. L. Gabriel, director of winter, Dean of Students Dr. dedication. Commented one stu­the Folsom Ambrosiana Collection Kathleen Rice abolished the Assis­dent, "Her spirit and dedication at the University will present an tant Dean position, to be replaced were an asset to St. Mary's that illustrated lecture on the "Icono­
with a Director of Student Affairs will be hard to replace." graphy of Mediaeval Paris Colleges" May 12 at the annual meeting of the Mediaeval Academy of America in Toronto.

Carter's poli·cy criticized 
Gabriel, one of 70 fellows of the [continued from page 3] Fraser said that he is skeptical of Academy, will trace the archi­programs which have allowed our past military involvements in tectural changes of Paris colleges people who are responsible for Latin and South American count­through the centuries and show violations of human rights to enter ries. He emphasized that in­their present sites in modern Paris. 

PITT CLUB BAGGAGE TRUCK 
loading at ND -SMC on sat. mav 14 ,& sun. may 15 
unloading in PGH. on wed. may 18 truck on first come first serve basis see notices around campus or call 1694. 

$800 a month Summer Interviews on campus: April 13 Wednesday 
At the International Stud~n 
Lounge (no calls please) 
basement of _La Fortune 
12:30, 3:00 or 6:00pm
--....!. ~t··· 

Please be on time uonlt dress 
the country. creased United States involvement 
A more exact definition of what in Latin America is not the answer constitutes a human rights viola­to insuring the human rights of tion has to be agreed upon, Cohen Latin Americans. said. She also called for the "The truth is I don't think the 
creation of a public oversight United States has that much in­commission which would "observe fluence, good or bad, in Latin and comment on the condition of America," Fraser said. Maybe we 
human rights in other countries, better pull away from these count­and on the adequacy and in­ries, but that doesn't bother me adequacies of particular govern­because I think our influence hasn't ment practices." done that much good anyway." 
Cohen suggested that the Civil 
Fraser concluded that he see in Rights Commission might assume 
Congress a split between those who this role. "I think that the 
want more immediate action to appointment of Andrew Young in a human rights policy, and those who very firm statement as to the link 
want to take a more deliberate between civil rights and human 
approach. "Above all else, " he rights," she added. 
said, "Congress needs to inform Donald Kommers, director of the itself of the complexities of the Notre Dame Center for Civil 
situation, of its limits, and of the Rights, concluded Saturday morn­
risks involved.'' ing's conference with the hope that Cohen, the first speaker at thethis would be the first in a series of conference, presented her paper onhuman rights conferences at Notre "Human Rights Decision-MakingDame. He also issued a statement, in the Executive Branch." Cohensigned by 31 of the conference's called for more emphasis on smal­
participants, indicating general 
ler human rights programs withthemes of agreement reached du­more long range payoffs. "Thering the symposium. 
government has a tendency to think "We welcome all statements too bi_g." she said. "It has tomade by the President and Secre­establi~h a good relationship withtary Vance concerning human 
organizations that take small
rights,''_ the statement began. The steps."
members of the conference pled­ge<! themselves to support and Cohen cited a need for a more assist the Carter administration in coordinated human rights effort 
its promotion of human rights among all levels of government. issues. She criticized government cultural 
\...~~--'"L""!..:--:.··----=-:·--= :•.:~"":..-:...~--:..-_-_-_'"!;,____~~--~~~~·-~-...._.._._.._.._..._._.._-_-:..·-·-·-_..._._.._...._.._.. 
YOU ARE CORD !ALLY INVITED TO ENJOY OUR ... 
52885 U.S. 31 North South Bend 


~ 





Danehy reveals dissimilarities between cases 
(continued from page 1]I the University's filing ofthe motion complaint should be dismissed flexibility in the initiation of law-' contract, were properly used, and with the provisions of the clause on ' to dismiss the case. "because there is some additional suits in those areas where legal whether he was the best qualified Dismissal for Serious Cause of the The University contends that its certainty that plaintiff could not be doctrine is either unsettled or person for his job." Faculty Handbook," the brief stat­desire to dismiss the case is to save entitled to relief' through the nonexistent.'' 
Hawaii case favors Danehy 

ed. Yet, it continues, the Univer­expense and time for both parties University's annuity and retire-"Consequently," it continues, sity has told him the continuation of involved, states the brief. The ment fund if he did not retire now. "in your typicai12(B)(6) Motion (to Although in this case, the court his employment is controlled by plaintiff believes, however, that the Yet the University's motion implies dismiss), a complaint will not be decided in favor of a professor another clause, the Procedure for 1 University "is more likely motivat-other questions and leaves them dismissed unless it appears to a against a state school, "upon Appointment and Promotion. ed by its desire to frustrate plaintiff unanswered: "(1) Whether the certainty that the plaintiff would constitutional grounds for equal 
If this is so, concludes the and the judicial process by prevent-retirement date or annuity date is a not be entitled to relief under any protection of the laws, nothin on document, then Danehy "should ing plaintiff's inquiry into: (1) the matter solely between the indivi-set of facts. In addition, the the face of Danehy's complaint be given reasons for any negative guidelines under which the Com-dual and the provider of the complaint should not be dismissed shows that he will not be able to decision by his Departmental Com­mittee on Appointments and Pro-annuity, and whether this date for failure to state a claim unless it maintain a cause of action against mittee on Appointments and Pro­motions operated, (2) its decision could be changed by the individual appears beyond a doubt that the the University for deprivation of his motions. Specific reasons have not regarding plaintiff and the reasons , at any time, (2) whether participa-plaintiff can prove no set of facts in constitutional rights under color of been given to Danehy; although therefore and (3) all other matters tion is the retirement program and support of his claim which would State Law." frequently requested by him." directly or indirectly associated the annuity is optional or that by entitle him to recover." "Professor James P. Danehy," 
Tenure defined with the potential, contractural, participation a faculty member "Indiana believes that unless the brief concludes, "could claim 
The brief attempts to explain the procedural conflicts" involved in relinquishes any rights and (3) there is an 'insurmountable bar' to discrimination against him when meaning of tenure. Kusbach cites the case. whether there is a bargained-for recovery which is evident on the other faculty members, _both Byse and Joughin, Tenure In Reappointment of positions is exchange of rights between the face of the complaint, the claim younger than 65 and older, have American Higher Education: handled by the Appointments and 1 contractual right of tenure and the should not be dismissed.'' been retained in employment and "Within the academic community, Promotions Committee of each contractural provision with respect Kusbach also cites a case, Nel-further when non-faculty members the essential characteristic of te­department. The Committee e-to participation in the University son vs. Mlwa, where the University are encouraged to remain in em­nure is not any concrete legal norm valuates the faculty member's annuity and retirement fund." of Hawaii foreclosed appointments ployment past age 65 and including but rather continuity of service. teaching, scholarship and research, Danehy's "failure to state a for persons over 65, even though age 72." Continuity, in turn, is the relin­service to the University, the needs claim" the University's reason to they were the most qualified for the "Danehy has a vested right byquishment, through legal obliga­of the department in question and dismiss the case, is also inaccurate position. "The Hawaiian Supreme tenure to continued employment as tion or moral commitment, of the the needs of the University in order according to Indiana law, the brief Court thought it ridiculous to determined by his single contract;freedom or power the educational to "determine whether that parti-maintains. "The Indiana standard, provide elaborate procedures for plaintiff has also presented the institution would otherwise possess cular faculty member of 65 years of plaintiff asserts, is that of an determination of a 65-year-old pro-question whether the contract pro­to terminate the teacher's ser­age is the best candidate reason-'insurmountable bar' and not 'the fessor's qualifications and then cedures followed have conclusively vices." ably available for the position," absense of law' standard for Fed-terminate his employment when he determined that he was not the 
''Once a professor has tenure, according to the brief. eral courts." was the most qualified person. best man for the job. Finally,
his right should be well protected," Motion to dismiss "As such," the brief explains, Professor Danehy should have his everything done must in no wayit contends. , The plaintiff ·asserts, further-"its works to protect the most day in Court to show whether the discriminate against plaintiff'sIn order to discover the reasons I more, that the University's brief, established legal precepts at the elaborate procedures, which de-right to work, so as to deny him

for his not being reappointed, Danehy has, through counsel, at­tempted to take the depositions of the members of the Committee on Appointments and Promotions on several occasions since the com­mencement of this lawsuit, the brief explains. However, it asserts, each time the hearing was delayed by the University due to various reasons: the final delay caused by 
Luggage truck to go to Long Island 
The New York Metropolitan Club will sponsor a luggage truck to Long Island this month. 
The truck will load on Saturday, May 14 from 11 a.m. until 3 p.m. behind the bookstore and on Sun­day, May 15 form 11 a.m. until 3 
p.m. at Stepan Center. 
A SS.OO nonrefundable deposit must be delivered to Gregory Nucci at 1011 Sherman Ave, in South Bend. Rates for luggage vary according to articles sent and must be paid at loading. In the event that space becomes scarce, prefer­ence will be given to those people who have made reservations. Fot further information contact Greg at 287-6058. 


Rukavina 

Isley Bros. Marvin Gaye Little Feat 

announces 

Pink Floyd Commadores Fleetwood Mac

appointees 

[continued from page 1] 
Weather Report Kenny Loggins Return to Forever
positions include freshman and 
sophomore class president. 

The position of Judicial Commis­sioner is still vacant and appli­i cations will be accepted until 5 
Huge Selection Full Line of
, 
p.m. Tuesday. The Student Rela­

tions Board, consisting of the hallI presidents, Katie Kearney, present 

Stereo Accessories!!
of Tapes!
I Judicial Commissioner, Wernig 
,_I and Rukavina, will vote on the candidates Wednesday night. On the whole, Rukavina ws pleased with the applicants. All positions had at least three appli­cants and according to Rukavina, 
tJJOSIE wrrn REH£M&~ I 8(D;fE
'"thev were all excellent. We chose them not on the basis that they US 1 tlWS HAS R(CORDS I 1R~ were better than one another, but 
~we-~"'~ CLb"ffiiN'-, SOOKS
that they were better suited for our l plans next year." Rukavina said. R\PAPI4ERNALIA Responding to accusations that 
AND CJn.lER
the positions had not been decideu 
on fairly, Rukavina states, "Nc 


fttkJE STllff! 
matter what I say. people will believe I had my mind made up before ... She explained that during her campaign she did not appeal to any specific interest group but went door-to-door. 
"We went into the interviews fairly open-minded," she contin­ued. "We're just Student Govern­ment trying to do the best we can." 


-----~-------~--....-~~--------------~----------~-­
----·----:--­
Monday, May 2, 19n the observer lJ 
ProspeCtive recruits must show desire to learn 

ties be able to project a grade point [continued from page 1] Joyce now personally speaks with . Since athletes compete with each . schedule which can accomodate average for each prospect of 1.6,
dent before entering Notre Dame, many of the potential recruits and · other for a fixed number of athletes with no academic inter­but the requirement was dropped.
the prospective Notre Dame athlete emphasizes the academic demands : grant-in-aids in each sport, their ests. Boulac cited Michigan State The effect on "blue-chip" athletesis examined for the presence of a and benefits of a Notre Dame admission does not deny other and the University of Southern in high school, according to DeCicco "desire to learn," according to education. "Kids that get frighten­students a place in the freshman California, which offer courses has been to avoid more demandingUniversity officials. During each ed in this speech will go some­class, according to Goldrick. such as woodcarving to ease their courses that might provide betterprospect's visit to campus, before a where else," he said. Joyce indicated that prospects athletes through college. 
background for the SAT. classesdecision is finalized, the coaches Coaches also visit the homes of with lower academic qualifications ''Themajority of our athletes can that might also jeopardize theevaluate his academic potential, a each prospect, Joyce revealed, and are admitted "partially" because get in here on their own," Boulac athlete's 2.0 average. 
process that provides the Univer­return with an indication of how they are necessary for the Univer­stated. He explained that only in Joyce pled­
ged to attempt to reinstitute the 1.6 
sity with a closer examination of interested the athlete is in attend­sity to remain competitive in major the case 9f a "super-athlete" is the projecte grade point average. andthe athlete than they have for the ing Notre Dame. The results of the intercollegiate sports. Coach'Brian admissions office asked to consider to seek and end to the freshn'lemordinary applicant. This interview, interviews, the athlete's ability, Boulac, who heads the football a prospect with a combined SAT eligibility rule, which allows fresh­according to Joyce, is crucial to the and his academic standing are recruiting program, pointed to score ofless than 800. If they judge men to compete at the varsity level. 
~dmission of a prospect. In a factors in the final decision, which special programs available at uni­the athlete to be unable to cope Football at Notre Dame in thechange from the (J~St procedure, is reached by the admissions office. versities on Notre Dame's football with Notre Dame academically, view of Joyce has remained in theBoulac remarked, then he is re­proper perspective. "I thinkjected. 
football has manifestly been kept inOnce an athlete is accepted, the its place at Notre Dame,'' he said, University provides academic aid adding that the program has '"tur­under the auspices of Asst. Prof. 
ned out fine athletes and fineMike Decicco, who directs a tutor­men."
ing program that supervises the Joyce described the performance academic performance of each of athletes academically at Notrescholarship athlete at Notre Dame. 
Dame as "a great success story."
He reported that as many freshmen He pointed to a recent survey ofathletes were on probation this professional football players as ansemester as at any time in the past. 
example of Notre Dame's gradua­Joyce stated that it was not tion record. Of all major universi­unusual for freshmen athletes to ties, only players from Notre Dame have difficulty during the first had all received their degrees.
semester in college, because the "The proof of the pudding is in theproblem of transition that confronts graduation record," said Joyce. 
every new student is compounded "If we went out and recruitedby the demands of football. 
prospect," said

The responsibility for a poor every top Valdi­
serri, "no one would ever beat us."
scholastic performance by an athlete, according to Decicco, should be the University's, since 
-Irish women
most were recruited to come here. He added that he is not consulted take third by the admissions office before a 
[continued from page 12)decision is reached about a pros­This event, which is comparablepect. 
to AAU competition, is for schools 
NCAA requirements 

which are not members of the 
The only academic requirement Association of Intercollegiate Ath­imposed by the National Collegiate letics for Women (AlA W), the Athletic Association (NCAA) on its female counterpart to the NCAA. member schools concerning admis-Coach Carcare said Hum's chances sions is that each recruit must for qualifying in the javelin "seem possess a high school grade point promising" and Weber's in the 
The Navy ROTC held their annual awards ceremony Saturday morning on Stepan Field. average of 2.0. At one time, the tSOO "are good if the field she's [Photo by john Calcutt] NCAA did stipulate that universi-running is good." __ 
r---------------~:.::_:_::_:_::_:_~~-~--~-~~-~--:~-~-~-~~-=-~~--------------------------------~ 
For Rent for next September furn­LOST--Orange wallet in bookstore ished four bedroom house couple of Tuesday. If found, please call 4-4160 blocks from Notre Dame. 'Phone no questions asked. 277-3604. 
LOST: Minolta Camera. Grace 
Classified Ads
NOTICES Summer rental--furnished, four­Lounge Sat. 4-23-77f. PLEASE re­
bedroom house. $100. a month. turn to Fr. Huneke's Office or 306 SUMMER JOB INTERVIEWS $800 Phone 277-3604. Grace. John--1607. PER MONTH. LAFORTUNE IN­TERNATIONAL STUDENT LOUNf 4 Bedrooms furnished apartment LOST: A gold key chain with about 9 GE. TODAY 12:00, 3:00, 6:00. within walking distance of campus. keys on it and with name charm PLEASE BE PROM PT. Call William Hill, 232-1724. Sum­'John' attached. Reward offered. Rare fishe for sale--very cheap. Call Bid, Elizabeth Scheurer Garrows 
mer occupancy only. Call 7096. 1631. looks good. Sounds good. Congrats. TAKING THE LSAT in July: LSAT Denise Review Weekend at the Palmer Two Bedroom house to rent. Sum­LOST: 1 Navy blue with yellow trim Fender Fele. 4 sale with Fuzz-watt 
House, 17 East Monroe St., Chicago mer and or school year. 1012 Eddy warm-up. Call8538. Reward. and mini-amp. quick sale--will nego­Dianne La Peyre: Merci mille fols ill., July 9 and 10 and at the Troy Street. $120 month plus utilities. tiate. Terry 288-3706. pur les fleurs. Comme ca sent Hilton Inn, Maple Rd and Stephen­Call Oddies Harris at 232-8563. FOUND: a pair of glasses call Audio formidable chez moi! M. son Hway, Troy, Mich. on July 16 --------------------------------------•-------Visual Office. 6423. For Sale: 1 parachute, cheap. Call 
and 17. Call Law Board Review Summer lease from June 1 to Chuck. 3303. Grab the DODO before it gets away. Center, collect (914) 623-4029 or August 25. Near ND--4 Bedroom LOST: One pair of glasses in a black ·:--.------------------------------------: __ ._ __ 
(914) 234-3702. $85. Special group and 5 bedroom furnished houses. 1 case. If found please call Herb '73 Monte Carlo, emerald green, Chris, Are you that beautiful and 
rates for 5 or more. Bedroom and 3 bedroom furnished Glose, 3455. black vinyl roof, wire wheel covers, voluptuous but lonely and depressed apartments. Ci:JII 234-2626. bucket seats, immaculate condition. 
N D co-ed that .n.eeds to be cheered 
ENERGY NOW--a high protein food LOST: Set of keys about a week ago. 350 4-barrel with dual exhaust, Air, up? Be yourself. A secret admirer product for those who need more 5-Bedroom House, really nice, large Call 7728. AM-FM stereo tape. $2950 or best energy-excellent food for athletes. living room and kitchen, fully furn­offer. Caii272-55SO after 5 pm. · Michael, Thanks for a greatFor information: 233-6581. ished, close to campus, has burglar MISSING: Timex quartz watch. Lost Wednesday night. The salad, pot,
alarm, call Charlie Moore. 232-7180. 4-23 at An Tostal. Reward offered. FOR SALE: Dolby Cassette deck, peanut butter and wine were great,Accurate, Fast Typing. Mrs. Dono­Rich Myers 7495. 'Wollensak 4766. Retail $450, asking 1 and the backrub was the best. We'll 1 I ho. 232-0746. Hours--8 am to 8 pm Furnished 3 bedroom house for $250. Call John 8315. have to do it again. Beth and Janet. 
summer includes washer-dryer. Niles Auction, 802 Fort St. 684-6954 $150 per month. Call Mrs. Cooper For Sale: Dynaco STI20 Stereo Dear Chris--Just remember--God or 684-4671. Auction Every Friday 272-3004. WANTED Amplifier 120 watts $1 per watt or loves you ans so do 1. "Mom" 
7:30. We buy and sell furniture, best offer. Call John 8315. appliances, antiques, and misc. Two furnished apartments. 503 W. WANTED: Female roommate to Seniors-t1Are you heartsick at hav­items daily 12:00 to 6 pm Jefferson, So. Bend. Duplex three share Wahington DC townhouse this For Sale: Two matching brown and ing to leave DuLac?? Find out 
rooms each floor. Gas Heat furnish­summer. Call Jennifer at 4-4211. white patchwork quilted bedspreads what's going on at your alma mater Cooper's Summer Storage. Pick-up ed. 289-6307, 234-0596. and coordinating curtains. Excellent by ordering a subscription to the and delivery at dorm. Call Mrs. Need Ride to Syracuse (May 13) or condition. Call4-5165. ·OBSERVER. Only $10.00 for a Cooper at 272-3004. LOST: 1 dark brown tri-fold wallet after exams, no bags, will pay. semester. Stop by the OBSERVER 
packed with very important stuff. Charlie 1620. NO Prof selling 72 Olds F 85, office and place your order now. NEED TYPING? Executary, Inc. Call Bill 3991 between 8 and 5. fourdoor, air, power steering, and Professional Typing Service, 10 wanted: ix tickets to Fiddler on the brakes, steel radials, cruise control. Happy Birthday to Susie Gauthier,typists--various typestyles. Term LOST: One, non-pierced, gold, hoop Roof--Friday May 20, 287-0742. Very good condition. Only 45,000 the sweetest angel I know. Papers: 85 cents a page; Resumes: earring. Loop one inch in diameter. mi. $2550. Call7534 or 2·34-7953. $2.00 a page. Call 232-0898. If found, call 806 7. Wanted: Small Office type refrigera­
Brace yourself for the 22nd birthday
tor. 234-4075 or 288-4310. 
of the most beautiful set of teeth on 
Start or advance your career with LOST: pair of glasses in light brown campus! Happy Birthday, Susie Mike Sharp, MBA Excellent man­case somewhere(?) Sat. night. Cam­Need a ride to Denver,colo. Can PERSONALS SMC! /agement, sales and technical positio pus View--Nickies--Library-call1208 leave 5-16. Call John 1607. locally and nationally. Trainees or Roomie, Thanks for the Mand M's twin dancing
To my favorite and
experienced. Call 234-9011 or see LOST: Red Addidas Jogging Jacket NEED RIDE TO KENTUCKY DER­and the raincoat. You've kept me partner, Happy Birthday Craig!!
Mike now. Snelling& Snelling, lic­during mud bath at Chariot race. if BY. LEAVE ANYTIME. HUGH sane this semester. Roomie. PS Love always, Susy SMC ensed employment agency. Cham­found call Hank, 3327. 272-2554. send me sanity-savers next year!! ber of Commerce Building, 224 W. Riddle Jefferson Blvd., South Bend, IN. LOST: gold 1976 PI Pleasant HS WANTED: Someone to deliver the lgstrom, Run away! Run away! Oh, in by 5 sleeps til 4 46601. Ring. Initial Vaike L. Reward. Call OBSERVER for '77-78 school year. Pardon me, String. outby10
3857. This is a salaried position. If same black dress, gleaming gr111-t 
2 Room Apt. Available for gradua­interested call Bob at 8362. To Mike Sylvestro and fellow doubt­work 
I

tion weekend tor family of 4 adults. LOST: An ID-type bracelet without a ing Thomases: Hell has been frozen rent a formal veteran. Happy
Includes refrigerator and private nameplate. sentimental value. Call over forlOO days!! Pats on the back Birthday--free Friday? Craig I bath. Call Ruth McNaughton 287-Dave3339. are in order. Virtuously yours, I 1466. !non-smokers) FOR SALE Christy and Olivia 
l 

;?r!J=inP:irS:f~ ~r~~"~i:t~er(b~~ 11 vw bus Good condition. For :k;j,·~---R;;y;;~jd"~;-··n;~~~---;~;--th~ I near Pangborn or Fisher. Reward detailscall277-3517. aspirinandtheuseofyourbed. Now ' I 
FOR RENT ~-~-~~~:-~~-~!-~~~~~-------·---------------Fc;;--s-~i~-=---b~h~i;i·-~;,:.j;~;;;·_ ~rum~~~d oa~t~~~=t~~ so;:th~~~ Layout staff t 
Apt. forfall in basement. Furnished LOST-Yellow and Blue reversible Stereo sytem. Good condition, must piano. Mar l t 3-bedroom, lounge, kitchen, show-raincoat with hood. Lost Thursday sell289-2061. --------------------·-----------·-------·----·· need.ed l I er, private entrance, clean, excellent night at Nickie's. Please call 4184 -----------------------------------------------Lucious Lynn, Georgie Porgie •_­
neighborhood. Utilities furnished. ask for Ziggy. FOR. SALE: Coffee table 60x22x16. . puddnin' and pie kissed the girls AI ll•:nte..ns(.•nd "
1_

I Call evening and weekend. 233-4703 -----------------------------------------------Good construction--$70. Also, 4-and made them ask for more. Is it ;t1 "' • o:::-~ t , 
jN--E~IxG-i::H-EB-u_o·--ReH-j.ioi:o-HD-os--u_--sEach--es--I:,Nd--e--ai=I-INfo--er ~u~ol~it'i~~~rd~~-chEll;,'ri~e:;thth: ~~;~~~ !~~~~ s~!sf=l;,a~~r~eoff at ~~~i~· '::!~rvr!~t~~~sie-'*'~!~ieR~~~: persons -contact .! brown band. Reward. Please call -----------------------------------------------en, Notorious Nina and boom-boom the Observer t1 4-6 students. Cost adjusted to 3746. Rug, Curtains tor sale. Call Joe Bethy. !' I number of students $225-$300 plus Hughes. 1481. 1 [ utilities. Call Mr. Gatto 234-6688. -· -. --.. 
~-~-~~~-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-~~~----~-~-~--~--~-~----~-------------J
·-·· ... .-·,----. r••••!."\',.-"o'·.r•t3••·••·"· ".l ... [ ..,.•••,,.,~.,~. , ••• ,.,~,.1..-t.''"''• c '').A.'-· · • • • ·•
·•·r -··-· '· ·." c • .,.__..,, ' -':~-?'i.V--, ·-'* ·. '-'·-i--•s.'. ~"' ••c• "n: UM.I't'.. l'r·!·Sf. i'i'd'·~·t<No.~·-)1-:·.-·~:t~'l·t·~·H.'fi':f ~:·tr;-,.·;..;:; ···n >-s f'J.•t·th .·, ·:. -.. ~ ·· :.. -· •'•' . · • • •'·-'>'• 

----~--------~ ­
-~-----~--~----------­
Blue team wins spring finale, 49-10 

Ross Browner had three solo tackles and eight assists in Saturday's intrasquad game. [Photo by john Calcutt] 
by Paul Stevenson Sports Editor 
The Fighting Irish football team concluded their 
spring season this past Saturday with the forty-sev­
enth annual Blue-Gold Game, a contest which found 
the Blue defeating the Gold by a score of 49-10. 
The battle started slowly, with the Blue squad failing to move the ball as expected. In their first series of plays, the Blue team lost fifteen yards. On their next possession, quarterback Rusty Lisch fumbled on first down, giving the Gold squad the ball on the Blue 18 yardline. 
However, the Gold could not advance the ball, and 
a Joe Unis 34 yard field goal attempt was wide to the 
left. 

Two plays into their next opportunity, Lisch was intercepted by Mike Whittington on the 32 yardline. Once again, the Gold team could not move the ball against the tenacious Irish Blue team defense. The three-point attempt failed giving the Blue team the ball again. 
Seven seconds later, Vagus Ferguson lost the handle on the football, and the Gold team has possession once more. The Gold members could not advance the ball, however, this time Unis connected on a 25 yard attempt. 
From that point on, the rest of the contest belonged to the men in blue. The Blue team drove 80 yards, 47 on the ground and 33 via the aerial attack as Lisch hit three of four, to score the first touchdown of the afternoon. Ferguson found paydirt from four yards out to cap the drive. Dave Reeve added the point after, giving the first quarter score of 7-3. 
The Gold team then drove 19 yards from their own 20 to the 39 yardline when Luther Bradley came up with his first of three interceptions of the afternoon, giving the Blue the ball at the Gold 40 yardline. 
The Blue team found the goal line again, highlighted by an 18 yard strike from Lisch to tight end Ken MacAfee, on a one-yard run by Lisch. Reeve hit the conversion to build the Blue team lead to 14-3. 
The Blue squad reclaimed the pigskin after the Gold team failed to move the ball, and advanced the ball SO yards for the score. Ferguson tallied the six points on a one yard plunge while earning his second touchdown of the day. 
With just 2:32 remaining in the half, Ferguson found the endzone once again to conclude a seven play 37 yard drive. Once again, the freshman gridder reached paydirt from one yard out. 
Bradley regained the ball for the Blue squad ten seconds later on his second interception in the contest. Lisch hit Steve Orsini with a 12 yard flare pass to give the Blue their final score before halftime. 
Ferguson began the scoring in the second half for .the Blue team with a 13 yard sprint. Reeve connected on the extra point to give the Blue a crushing 35-3 lead. 
With only 35 seconds left in the game, Joe Montana led the Blue team to their final score of the afternoon. Highlighted by a 14 yard aerial strike to Dennis 1 Grindinger, the Blue score came on a five yard scamper by Steve Schmitz. 
*Observer 
Sports 
Women's track places third 
by Laurie Reising Women's Sports Editor 

The Notre Dame women's track team finished up their re~ular season Saturday afternoon on a hopeful note by placing third in the · Cougar Relays competition held at St. Francis College. The meet was won by the host school with Hunnington College coming in second while Indiana University finished fourth and Albion College fifth. 
In the 440 relays the team of Susanrla Behnke, Gina Robillard, Kathy McKann and Michelle O'Haren grabbed first place with their time of 53:2. This same squad barely ,missed finishing first again in the 880 relays. Their time of 
1:52.5 was .005 of a second short of the winning mark. The mile relay saw the squad of ; t•'• Peter, Mary Hums, Liz Berry Peggy Hester capturing third 'ith their combined time of 
' group was without the ~-r. of sophomore Helen Weber and coach Larry Carcare said he was "really proud of his second team, they ran their hearts out." 
The Irish women looked strong again in the 2 mile medley action with the team of Berry, Curtain, Hester and Malvezzi finishing third. Their time was set at 11 :58.5 The group took second place in the 880's with a time of 2:02. 
It was the winning combination of Behnke, Robillard, McKann and O'Haren competing again in the jumper's relay eventand they were equally successful. capturing first place honors with their time of 55:0. 
Sophomore Mary Hums came in second with a hurl of 109.0 feet in 

1 
the javelin throwing competition. Next Saturday, along with team­mate Helen Weber, she will be travelling to Manchester College to attempt to qualify for the USTFS competition which is to be held in Wichita: Kansas, at the end of May. 
[continued on page 11] 
,..,·~<¥--""""' #
,., 
~' --~' 
~~~A<--' 

Vagus Ferguson led all rushers with 85 yards on 17 carries in the Blue team's 49-10 victory. [Photo by john Calcutt] 
Tracksters return frOm Drake 
with the exception of Kenny who Sports Writer 
by Bob Keen 

was replaced by Kurt Spieler, finished in 10:01, again placing The Notre Dame track team sent twelfth. Another stand-out for a number of its top performers to Notre Dame was Dennis Vander­participate in the Ball State and Kraats who ran the 3000 meter Drake Relays this past weekend. steeplechase, finishing in 9:08 only 
At Ball State, Dan Horgan five seconds off the school record. running in the steeplechase fin­''I was satisfied with the per­ished with the impressive time of 
I 

9:19, a personal best. Another 
; stand-out performance was turned in by Arnie Gough who finished in third place while running the high hurdles in 14.6. Concluding the running events was the two mile relay team consisting of Dave Benkert, John Quinn, Ed Kristner and Dave Gutschenritter who made a good showing in this strenuous event. In the field event section of the meet the Irish faired well with Terry Stowe making a respectable showing in the pole vault clearing 14 feet six inches. George Lang had a personal best in the hammer throw tossing it 132 feet. Rounding out the field events and the meet was Mike Meyer's discus throw of 145 feet. The Irish faced much stiffer competition at the Drake Relays, in fact, most experts claim it to be the most prestigious relay meet of the entire season. Peter Burger, Ste.ve Welch, Kevin Kenny and Joe Strohman, representing the Irish in the four mile relay, placed twelfth out of a field of 29 teams, finishing with a fine time of 16:58. 
In the distance medley the team The Notre Dame track team will prepare for their only home meet of consisting of the same members, the spring season this Saturday against Toledo. 
The Gold team high point was directed by quarterback Kevin Muno, who found receiver Tyree Dickerson for a 40 yard strike, giving the Gold excellent field possession with only seconds remain­ing in the contest. Two plays later, Muno found Dickerson in the endzone from six yards out to give the Gold team their only touchdown in the annual competition. 
The Blue team compiled 231 yards on the ground, while ammassing 145 through the air. In contrast, the Gold squad lost 18 yards rushing, while gaining 72 yards passing. 
Ferguson Jed all rushers with 85 yards on 17 attempts. This performance earned him Offensive Player of the Game distinction. David Waymer and Willard Browner added 41 and 38 yards respectively. 
Lisch connected on 11 of 17 pass attempts, while Montana hit four of seven. MacAfee hauled in five passes for a total of 84 yards. 
Defensively, Ross Browner compiled three solo tackles and eight assists, including four sacks for a total loss of 24 yards. Bob Golic notched two individual tackles while also adding eight assists. 
Luther Bradley intercepted three passed during his afternoon performance. Because of this feat, Bradley was named Defensive Player of the Game by the press. 
The game was a typical end to the spring drills. This game is supposed to answer key questions as to who will be starting in various positions next fall. One of these spots has to be quarterback, a position which Lisch has claimed, but not without hesitation on Devine's part. 
"Yes Lisch has won the number-one quarterback spot," Devine responded to a question." "He's a dedicated athlete and a good student of the game." 
"However, Joe (Montana) has had a real good last couple of weeks in practice. He just happened to be off today. When a guy is out for a year, it's hard to come back so quickly." 
"I don't think you saw how well Joe has done this spring today," Devine added. 
Another concern is also centered around the starting backfield, who worked without AI Hunter and Jerome Heavens. Right now, this duo is counted on for their contributions in the fall. By that time, they should be healthy and ready for play. 
Ifthis tandum returns to the lineup at full strength, what happens to the backfield that played Saturday is another question. One solution under consideration is to use Heavens and Ferguson at both fullback and halfback positions. 
Waymer, who performed well on offense in Saturday's game, will remain on offense for the fall. Devine originally wanted to play Waymer on offense and defense for two weeks each. However, injuries in the backfield prevented Waymer's transition to defense . 
Receiver Kris Haines and tri-captain Terry Eurick were absent from Saturday's competition. Haines was suffering from a pulled hamstring, while Eurick did not participate because of a sore shoulder. 
The Notre Dame football team will report for fall practice on August 16. Picture Day will be August 17 with practice starting on August 18. 
formances by the team at both relays, although I also realize that some of the athletes could have done better,'' stated Head Track Coach Joe Piane. The Notre Dame track team will hold its only track meet of the season at home this when they host the 
mvPn:nv of Toledo. 








