--~---~-~--~----------~~-----------------------~-c­

server 
an independent student newspaJ!Jer serving notre dame and st. mary's
Vol. XII, No. 11 Tuesday, September 13, 1977 
Security loses SJ deputy status 
by Barb Langhelll'.f opinion, Security is not restricted in News Editor the performance of their duties." Roemer bas given Security instruc­
Special deputy commissions tions to act in the same manner as given to some members of the they did prior to the discontinuance Notre Dame Security force by the of the special deputy commissions. St. Joseph County Sheriff's Office Director of Security Arthur were removed early last spring Pears, however, stated that the under the advice of the count.y removal of the special deputy attorney. These special deputy commissions "limits us to some commissions had allowed the ND degree." He noted that Security Security officers to make arrests does not have the power of ''hot under the authority of St. Joseph pursuit." "For example," be County. explained, "if a bicycle is stolen, 
Dean Bolerjack, St. Joseph we don't have the right to follow a County sheriff,. stated that the person and apprehend him." county attorney advised these spe­Pears added that it puts his men in cial deputy commissions be remov­an awkward position because they ed on a county-wide basis because have the fear of a lawsuit for any of the number of litigations in false arrests. which the county had become Addressing the issue of false involved, and the lack of control arrest, Roemer admitted a "slight­over deputized persons. The ly increased concern regarding county had legal liability for actions liability," but stated that Security deputized persons might take. has been told to act the same as Now, only persons under the direct before in every respect. personal control of Bolerjack are Losing the special deputy status deputized. does not mean that Security has 
Notre Dame's General Counsel lost their power to arrest. Roemer In California, it is a mortal of the South Quad goes Philip Faccenda and Dean of stated that Security can make sin to operate lawn sprink­unchecked by students Students James Roemer both em­arrests. for felonies and mis­lers during a rainstorm, at caught in yesterday's after­phasized that the removal of the demeanors committed in their pre­Notre Dame, the offense is noon drizzle. [Photo by leo special deputy powers does not sence. Bolerjack explained, "The merely venial. This overkill Hansen] hamper ND Security significantly. president of Notre Dame is chief of Faccenda stated that Security's police on his property and he can authority and power is derived hire people to see to Security and from their employment by the make arrests for criminal viola­
Co-ed committee report viewed
University and their operation on tions." University property. He added that Pears stated that Security has 
by David O'Keefe In examining the progress and "They gave of themselves until ithe views the deputization as addi­power of arrest as a private citizen F'eatures Editor effects of the five years of coeduca­hurt.''
tional authority. and can sign an affidavit just as an tion on the University, the Commit­Academic ExperienceRoemer asserted, "In my legal [continued on page 3] 
EDITOR'S NOTE: This Is the Orst tee distributed questionnaires to Based on questionaire responses In a three~-part series of adlcles and solicited written-statements that indicated a marked preference which exal!lllne the report rued last from male and female students and by both men and women a
for

South Bend Police 
May be th., Committee to Evaluate faculty members. The Committee better balance in classes, the CoeducatlcJ,n. In this Orst utlcle, also issued an invitation to the Committee recommended that the we wUI eilllllline the recommenda­University Community to meet with Registrar be responsible for a more 
tions mad~: by the Committee with
break up 0-C party 
the Committee. even distribution of women in the 
respect to Academics, Admissions, The Committee members were: sections of multisectional courses.
by Ann Gales alcohol to a minor is still a violation ND-SMC Relations, and WoiiUIIl Sr. John Miriam Jones, chairman; Jones expressed the hope thatStaff Reporter of the law, Foy stated. Faculty and Admlnlstradon. 
John Goldrick, director of Admis­there would be "some cooperation''H you have a private off-cam­sions; Emil Hofman, dean of the and trade-off'' to eliminate theAn off-campus party at a house pus party at which you serve In September of 1976, a commit­Freshman Year; Fr. Terrance Lally, possibility that women would be on St. Louis Ave, was broken up alcohol to minors, you are tech­tee chaired by Assistant Provost former assistant vice president for prevented from taking a course, orlast Thursday night by Sou~ Bend nically not violating the law," be Sister Joliln Miriam Jones was Student Affairs; Sr. Jean Lenz, a section of a course, by thePolice. The officers threatened to explained, "but if you sell alcohol organized to evaluate co-education rector of Farley Hall; Sr. Elena proposed system. 
start checking J.D.'s and making to a minor, then both you and the at Notre Dame and to make Malits, chairman of the Religion She added that the recommenda­
arrests if the students did not minor are in violation of the law recommer11dations based on their Department of Saint Mary's Col­tion addresses itself more to semi­disperse. and can be arrested.'' findings. 
lege; Vincent Raymond, associate nar-type courses where discussionAccording to Notre Dame senior Packer argued that persons at After s1even months, the Com­dean of Business Administration; and interaction is fundamental, inKevin Packer, one of the residents the party were not charged for mittee to• Evaluate Coeducation John Reid, assistant director of keeping with the Committee's con­of the house, the party was alcohol. 
released its report. The 43-page Student Acitivities; Katherine Till­tention that "men and women haveconfined to a lighted area in the "We didn't sell liquor," be document will be presented to the man, assistant professor in the much to learn from one another.''yard. Packer estimated that 150 insisted. "we sold cups for Sl.OO Board of Trustees during their 
General Program of Liberal Stu­Another recommendation made
people were present at the peak of each. Once you had a cup you upcoming October meeting, but dies; and Jane Lammers and in this area was more an exhorta­
the party and six kegs were served. could have as much beer as you only for brief preliminary consider­Michael Casey, both seniors at the tion to all members of the Univer­Cups for beer were sold at Sl.OO wanted.'' 
ation. Most of the Committe time they served on the Commit­sity community to "design oureach. 
Foy, however, maintained that recommendations concerning Uni­tee. attitudes and comments in accord"At about 12:30 a.m., six squad "no matter how you try to get versity policy will most likely Jones was quick to point out the with true human respect and
cars arrived and the policemen told around it, you're still selling 
receive further, more extensive tremendous dedication of the indi­concern for one another.'' 
everyone to go Packer alcohol without a permit and there­study at the Board's spring ''The Committee
home," ses­vidual members. The basis ofthe recommendation
reported. ''They said that they had fore you're breaking the law." sion. 
was superb," she commented. (coadnued OD JN11e l)received a complain from one of the neighbors that the party was too loud." 
Packer stated that policemen informed the students that they 
Food fights result in ''serious action'' 
would check I.D.'s and arrest minors ifthe party didn't break up. "So a lot of the kids went hom e by Bill Delaney mommg on successive Sundays.'' Student workers in the south season promises to be a good one and we moved the rest of the party He continued to say that since dining hall wen:_ kept an hour later · for football, food fights will be an indoors and partied until 5 a.m.," Food fights in both dining halls this policy "doesn't seem to be than usual to help clean up on even bigger problem. "They won't he added. last Saturday, resulted in major doing any good, perhaps it is time Saturday, according t<' Robert be tolerated," he said. He.added 
Uniform Division Chief Donald clean up problems and a promise for more: serious action.'' That Smith, manager of south dining ·that ifthings get bad enougn, they Foy of the South Bend Police for "more serious action" against might m•ean "separation from the · hall.All ofthe tables and chairs had will close both sides and turn away explained that '' police are able to offenders. The fights erupted after community'' for offenders, he said. to be cleaned, and another 15 man the students who have not yet check I.D.'s in a situation like that the Notre Dame victory over Pitts­' No..action bas been taken in the hours were necessary the next eaten. because the students were burgh. case of tlte student who had his ID morning to wash the floors, be Edmund Price, director of Food charging admission to the party." One student's I.D. was con­taken but Roemer stated that "he added. Services, felt that food fights hurt 
In order to sell alcohol at at fiscated at the north dining hall and will be dealt with seriously.'' Many -dining hall employees the morale of dining hall em­
party, Foy said, the students several students were aksed to According to B.F. Mehall, expressed disgust and dismay over ployees. ·"They are giving their all having the party must first obtain a leave at the south dining ball. assistant director of Food Services, the disturbance and mess. Adam all," he said, "and it is very permit. H they do not obtain a Dean of Students, James Roemer clean-up in the north dining hall Szcepanski, Student Coordinator disturbing to see wasted food.'' permit, they are violating the law said, that in his past dealing with took abc•ut thirty man hours, not on duty at the time of the fight in Price added that dining ball and can be arrested. food fighters, his policy bas been to includin1~ time spent by regular the south dining ball, called the employees will continue to confis­
However, even if the party "soci it to them with cleaning workers who stayed late on Satur-fights ''dangerous and immature.'' cate IDF's and turn them over to organizers have a permit, selling garbage cans at seven in the ~Y--Szcepanski added that, since this Dean Roemer. 



the observer TuesuyI September 13, 19n 
On Campus Today-------. 
9a.m. orthodox christian services, "the divine liturgy of the eucharist," lewis hall chapel. 
9p.m. meeting, for all hall j-board chairmen, student government offices. 
Co-ed committee report cites ND-SMC relations 
.[oontJnaed from pqe I( was the Committee's finding, based again on questionnaire res· ponses, that almost SO per cent of the women responding reported that they had been made to feel uncomfortable by professors in classrooms because they were fe­
male. The Committee expressed 
··grave concern" over this matter. 
The academic experiences under 
coeducation have not been entirely 
negative by any means, however. 
The report points out that "Notre 
Dame men and women have begun 
to experience what it means to be 
co-educated." 
Admissions 
Statistics on admissions indicat­ed that the maintenance of quotas in admitting women led to the denial of admission to women with better credentials than a number of men admitted in the same year. 
In evaluating admissions, the Committee also studied the exper­iences of Yale and Princeton, peer institutions that have also imple· mented coeducation in recent years. 
Based on their findings, the Committee recommends the adop· tion of an "equal-access" admis­sions policy whereby the male­female student ratio would approxi­mate the ratio in the applicant pool. Gradual implementation of this policy would establish the male­female ratio in the area of 60-40 per cent. 
A Corollary to the proposed equal-access policy is the Commit­tee's recommendation that the University re-examine its present practice of maintaining a stable undergraduate enrollment. In· creasing the enrollment, the report contends, would facilitate the im· plementation of the policy without' diluting the quality of the student body. 
Notre Daale-s.Jat Milly'•
......... 
Figures assembled by the Com­mittee indicate that the co­exchange program permitting stu­dents to tate classes at the neigh­boring institution has suffered a 
decline in participation throughout the years of coeducation. 
As a result, the report recom­
mends a thorough examination of 
the program aimed at promoting 
''maximum interchange and educa­
tional benefits for students and 
faculty." 
The Committee further recom­
mends the establishment of a 
formal agency under the auspices 
of Student Affairs at both schools to 
''coordinate cooperative efforts'' in 
the nonacademic aspects of rela­
tions between the two schools. 
Women F8CIIIty and 
Administration 
The Committee pointed to the need for hiring woman faculty and administrators as a logical exten­sion of the coeducational process. 
They did uncover some distres­sing facts in the course of their investigation in this area. The percentage of men who leave facultyI administrative positions each year is, on an average, 10 percent while 26 percent of the women leave. 
Also, many women interviewed by the Committee reported feelings of professional inequity generated on the intitutional and departmen­tal levels, although they did cite their male colleagues as personally "supportive." 
As a result, the Committee recommendations were aimed at inspiring professional and personal cooperation between deans, de­partment heads and the Provost, along with the Affirmative Action Committee, to determine proce­dures for attracting qualified wo­men to Notre Dame, the other charging the Vice-President of Student Affairs with appointing a woman to a policy-making position. 
Jones explained the rationale behind the recommendations in this area: "Women reaJJy need role models," she said. "A university is reaJJy a reflection of the world. You don't have a university situation without inte­grating various backgrounds, in­terests, nationalities, and all modes of human existence." 
She added, "One of the most important modes of existence in the world today is that of the woman." 

Fund offers fellowships for Black study in Africa 
The National Fellowships Fund, with funds provided by the Ford Foundation, is offering a limited number of fellowships for field research in Africa and the Middle East which are desig~d to expand opportunities available to Black Americans for pursuing academic careers related to the two regions. 
The purpose of this program is to provide opportunities for an ex­tended dissertation research in the overseas setting. Fellowships will normally be awarded for projects requiring a period of up to 12 months in the field. Stipends will differ according to country. but will include transportation costs, main­tenance allowance for the Fellow and dependents plus certain ex­penses related to undertaking over­seas research. 
Applications will be accepted from individuals presenting pro­posals at the dissertation-year level. Persons pursuing academic programs in graduate faculties of arts and sciences as well as the professional schools may also apply for &. fellowship under this pro­gram. An applicant need not be a Middle East or African specialist 
when applying for a fellowship. 
Applications should be sub­mitted by January 5, 1978. An­nouncement of Fellows selected will be made on or about April 25, 1978. 

Requests for application forms should be directed to: Middle East and Africa Field Research Fellowship Program for Black Americans National Fellowships Fund 795 Peachtree Street, N.E. Atlanta, Georgia 30308 
Erratum 

The article in yesterday's Obser­ver on decreased student patron­age of certain taverns in the Corby-Eddy area did not, through an oversight, include reactions of the owners of these bars to student comments. The Observer apologi­zes for this oversight. However, the article was meant to provide a new aspect of the story on the tavern owners' reactions on this subject which appeared in Friday's Observer and intended to focus on student opinion. 
---~--~------------------~--------·----------~-----------------­
Fake raffle ti.ckets peddled 
A man calling himself Jim 
Dedrick and posing as a member of 
a disabled veterans organization 
has been trying to sell fake raffle 
tickets on campus. 
Dedrick said that the organiza­
tion, identified only as the DVVC, 
was sponsoring the raffle, which 
would be drawn Nov. 6. 
He claimed that first prize would 
be a week-long cruise for two on a 
luxury liner in the Carribean, while 
second and third winners would 
receive $100 and $25, respectively. 
Dedrick is described as a 28-year 
Judge orders new trial for Kent State 
CINCINNATI (AP)-The 6th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals ordered a new trial yesterday for Gov. James 
A. Rhodes, state officials and National Guardsmen named in a $46 million damage suit stemming from the 1970 shootings at Kent State University in which four students were killed. 
The appellate court, in a unani­mous decision, overturned an earlier ruling because at least one juror had been ''threatened and assaulted during the trial by a person interested in its outcome." 
The defendants had been cleared of financial liability in the earlier trial in the U.S. District Court of Judge Don J. Young. 
The alleged harassment occurred near the end of the 15-week trial on damages sought by the wounded and survivors of four students killed during the antiwar demon­stration May 4, 1970. They claimed the defendants failed to take ade­quate prcautions to prevent injuries after armed and untrained Guards­men were ordered to the campus. 
A jury also cleared the pres1dent of the university and Ohio National Guard officers and enlisted men of liability in the case. 
It was reported to the district judge that one juror had been threatened three times and as­saulted on one occasion. But, the appellate court noted, the judge did not question the threatened juror to learn what effect it had on him or 

, :~,c 1
whether he had discussed the 
threats. 'Night Editor: John Calcutt 

1IMONDAY & TUESDAy:
Asst. Night Editor: Leigh Tu· nakan Layout Staff: Tracy Herman Editorial Layout: Judy Rup­precht Sports Layout: Greg "Jour­nal" Solman assisted by "the Italian Stallion" Typists: Gwen Coleman, Sue Scribner, Mary Jo Cushing, Lisa DiValerio E.M.T.: Karen Chiames Day Editor: Tom Nilsson Copy Reader: Martha Datz­man Photographer: Leo Hansen 
Happy Birthday, Vickie! . I • [room1e)
l 
The Observer Ia published Mon­d•y through Frld•y exeept during eum •nd veotlon perfo4s. Tile Observer Is published by th• students of Notre D•me •nd S•lnt M•rv'• College. Subsutptlons m•v be purdl81ed for no per v••r 
($1 o per semester) from The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre D•me• lndl•n• 46556. SKDnd d811 poat•1• P•ld, Notre D•me, lndl•n•. 46556. . The Observer 11 • member of the Aa~ted Jtre11. All repro­duction rltllts.,.. re11rved. 
AUDITIONS 
FOR SMC COFFEEHOUSE VOCAUSTS 
INSTRUMENTAUSTS AIL TAlENT WELCOME 
caD Karen 4-4035 

old white male, 6'2", well built, were also unsuccessful. red-blond wavy hair and mous­''There has been only one report tache, and wearing wire rimmed so far of a purchase, but I'm sure glasses. some others got stuck that we don't 
Last Friday, a Dillon resident know about." Pears said. Pears who had purchased one of the raffle added that he thinks that the man tickets requested Notre Dame Se­has "probably been scared away curity to check on the organization. by now." , 
Director of Security Arthur Pears Paul Unger, assistant rector of reported that the South Bend Dillon, stated that all solicitors on Chamber of Commerce had no campus must obtain permits from knowledge of the raffle or of the the Dean of Students. He advised DVCC. students to ask to see a permit if 
Further attempts to locate and approached by anyone selling ahy­identify the veteran's organization thing. ; 
some:~'s 
most im~nt natural resources 
I 

into the ground. 

Highly trained, highly qualified. and highly dedicated missile officers in the Air Force. Getting down to the vital business of keeping America alert. This is a specialized field available to a few very special men. 
You can prepare to enter this exciting field by enrolling in an Air Force ROTC program. Four-year. 3-year. or 2-year programs leading to a commission of an Air Force officer. There are scholarships available. plus $100 monthly allow· ances. And after college. an Air Force opportunity for a challenging job and with pald·for graduate educational degrees.
If you're the type of a guy who wants to plant your feet on a solid foundation. look Into the Air Force ROTC programs and look ahead to becoming a missile launch officer in the Air Force. 
Get all the details ... no obligation, of course. 
contact Capt. Davis 6634 

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~, 
I THE LIBRARY I 
1

I C.~OOs-' 
: NIGHT 1 
t 9~11PM t 
tPITCHERS or 7 & 7's I
t  ·  · Rum & Cokes  
t  ·4_  Gin & Tonics  t  
I :  ~~y ~ ~~  PINA COLADAS! : only $2.00 1  
t  t  

~..-.~~~.,-.-~.~~~~~~~~~..._.~J 
Can Just ANYONE Purchase From Diamond Import Company? 
Technically. yes. But then. we're not sure JUSt ANYONE would want to do so. We're not a "jewelry store," so we don't offer watches, silverware, or synthetic stones. Our specialization lies in diamonds and fine gems, 18k gold and platinum jewelry. We also offer appraisal services and estate 
jewelry, which is slightly removed from the norm. 
So. you see. we don't attempt to please just ANYONE 
We serve those who appreciate qualify, and the 
professionalism of a Graduate Gemologist. To 
those persons, whether they wish to invest 
$250.00 or $25,000.00 we extend our 
personal invitation. 
Lobby St. Joseph Bank Building South Bend, Indiana Telephone: 287-1427 
John M. Marshall's 
Your Source for the Unusual

......,,...­
Tuesd.!y, September 13, tm the observer
Mayors question Carter's devotion to big cities 
'Roo~ts' captures Emmy spotlight 
WASHINGTON (AP) • Mayors fegislative proposals that will indi­and federal officials who run urban cate just where Carter is going." 
LOS ANGELJ~S [AP] · "Roots,'' programs are questioning the level In the Cabinet agencies, the 
the most watched show in televi­of President Carter's commitment skepticism about Carter's commit­
sion history, proved the most to the nation's big cities. ment to the cities is expressed 
honored seri<:s in the four-month Leaders of the U.S. Conference almost entirely in dollar terms. 
late 29th ammal Television Aca­
of Mayors were meeting with the ''There is no question where his demy Awards Sunday , scoringhigh command of Carter's urban loyalties lie," said one assistant nine Emmys. 
task force yesterday. While the secretary, who asked that he not be The David Wolper production, mayors were to offer recommenda-quoted by name. 
based on thf: best-seller by Alextions on improving urban America, "The man was elected with a lot Haley, was declared best limitedtheir main hope was to gain a clear of city votes, and a lot of black series of the 1976-1977 TV seasonindication of Carter's intentions. votes, and he's not going to forget and won acting honors for starStuart Eizenstat, Carter's chief they're out there and that they Louis Gossett, Jr., and supportingdomestic adviser; Cabinet Secre-have problems. But it isn't clear players Edw.ard Asner and Oliviatary Jack Watson, and Secretary that he knows it'll take money to Cole.
Patricia Harris of housing and solve them." urban development (HUD) were to One subcabinet official, wary of 
Director David Green and writers discuss urban strategy with the the inevitable upcoming spending 
Ernest Kinoy and William Blinn mayors. battles with Carte's Office of 
also won, and the series got three Mayors scheduled to attend the Management and Bud~et, put it 
other awards in craft categories. meeting were Kenneth Gibson of this way: "Carter's talking a good 
"Roots" provided a degree of Newark, Maynard Jackson of At· game, but you'v~. got to .keep your 
drama for the marathon awards Ianta, Janet Hayes of S~n Diego, eye on the ball, refemng to the 
special , which pressed on pastHenry Maier of Mil~aukee, 1979 budget. . . 
midnight ir1 the Eastern Time 
Richard Carver of Peona, 111., The budget, due m January, will Zone. The onslaught of EmmysMoon Landrieu of New Orleans, be Carter's first spending docu­included on·~ for "Van Dyke andRichard Hatcher of Gary, Ind., ment and will signal his priorities. 
Company,'' cancelled after elevenJohn Buckley of Lawrence, Mass., Carter's urban task force is weks on NBC, and "The MaryRalph Perk of Cleveland, and Lee working this week to complete a Tyler Moor'e Show", which hasAlexander of Syracuse, N.Y., the series of reports that will provide passed into reruns after seven hitconference president. the outline for a national urban years.
First · and foremost was the policy. The urban policy is due to Carroll O'Connor of "All In Thematter of money be announced by Carter early next Family" and Beatrice Arthur of' ear. 
"Maude" were predictable win­new urban policy if there is no new House and in the Cabinet agencies 
''There is no point to having a y Some officials at the White 
ners as comedy series leads. money,'" said John Gunther, direc-say at least several billion dollars 
James G~•mer of the "Rockford tor of the Conference of Mayors. more are needed for housing, 
Files" and Lindsay Wagner of "We're looking to the '79 bud-public transit and economic devel­
"The Bioni<: Woman" won Emmys et " he added. "It will include o ment. 
as stars of dramatic series. 
Beulah Bondi, the veteran char­
acter actress in "The Pony Cart" 
segment of ''The W altons,'' was 
given the award for best lead 
actress in a series. 
Miss Bondi, veteran of memor­
able performances on the stage and 
scren for more than 50 years, 
seemed in awe of the Emmy. "My 
isn't this beautiful!" she remark­
ed. "This is truly a bonus." 
Gossett, who was competing with three fellow actors of 'Roots', thanked his collaborators as well as his own roots, which he remarked "continue from Africa to Georgia, South Carolina and all the way to New York." 
The evening's first awards went to Gary Burghoff, the Machiavel­lian company clerk of "M-A-S-H", and Mary Kay Place, the erst­while country and western singer of "Mary Hartman, Mary Hartman". 
Other winners included: 
-Comedy Series Writing: The writers of ''The Last Show'' segmentofthe "Mary Tyler Moore Show". 
-Comedy Series Directing: Alan Aida, the '_'Dear Sigmund" segment of "M-A-S-H". 
-Writing of Comedy-Vaiiey or Music Series: The writers of "NBC's Saturday Night" with Sissy Spacek. 
· -Continuing. or Single Perfor­mance by Actor in Variety or 


UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME SPECIIAL 
Come to a 


Are you bogged down already? "Knowledge is a reflection of reading"
FREE 
SPEED READING LESSON Increase Your Reading Speed 50-100°/o 
COMPARE AND DE~CIDE 
Dynamic A-ding B1f81i:ams Inc. 
D.R.S. guarantees in writing to at least triple your Dynamic Reading Speed or you will receive a FULL refund. 
Advanced Course 
Lifetime membership enables our graduates to retake the course to extend their skills at no additional charge. 
Tuition Assistance Payment Plan. NO 
Finance Charge!! 
$175.00 
Monday 
Tuesday 
Wednesday 
Thursday 
Friday 
Evelyn Wood Reading Dynamics Partiial refund of your tuition if you fail. 
No 11dvanced course known at this time. 
Theitr graduates are required to pay a regi:;tration fee to retake the course. 
Contractual obligation with finance charge. 
$295.00 

ATTEND A FREE LI:SSON:  
September 12 September 13 September 14 September 15 September 16  12:30 12:30 12:30 12:30 12:30  2:30 2:30 2:30 2:30 2:30  4:30 4:30 4:30 4:30  6:30 6:30 6:30 6:30  
All meetings held at:  

The Center for Contlnulrtg Education room 14· 
Dynamic Reading Systems k1c. 
A company established by a group ot fornaer Evelyn Wood Reeclng D!,nemics' lnalruetors, ullblng _.MW ~ ~1&n Dyn.Nc R.clng ~~ 
Music: Tim Conway, "The Carol 
Burnett Show''. 
-Continuing or Single Perfor­mance by Actress in Variety or Music: Rita Moreno, ''The Mup-• pet Show". 
-Lead Actor in a Comedy or Drama Special: Ed Flanders, "Harry S. Truman Plain speak­ing". 
-Lead Actress in a Comedy or Drama Special: Sally Field, "Sybil". 
-Writing of Special Drama or Comedy Programs, Adaptations: Stewart Stem, "Sybil". 
-Writing of Special Drama or Comedy Program, Original: Lane Slate, "Tail Gunner Joe''•·.~'­
An emotional John Trivolta came on stage to accept the Emmy for outstanding performance in a com­edy or drama special. The winner was his fellow performer and close friend, Diana Hyland, who died of cancer earlier this year. She had ben chosen for the "ABC Friday Night Movie" presentation, "The Boy in the Plastic ·Bubble". 
Burgess Meredith won as sup­porting actor in the same category for his role as Joseph Welch in the NBC biography of the late Joseph McCarthy, "Tail Gunner Joe". 
In another emotional moment in the well-paced, smoothly produced show, Meredith thanked Welch for opposing McCarthy and helping to end entertainment industry "black­listing". Meredith then paid tribute to "a greater victim" of the blacklist, Zero Mostel, who died last week. 
[CIOIItlned -.... 5] 
Security arrest? 
[coatlaued rn.. ,... 1) 
officer can. He added that in the 
case of a felony Security can bold a 
person and then tum him over to . 
the county sheriff or state police. ~ 
Truteee c:u Give Secarlty · 
Polke Powen 
During the January 1976 session 
of the Indiana legislature, a provi· 
sion was made that the board of 
trustees of any North Central 
Association ·accredited institution 
can, by official action, establish a 
security department. and give 
them the general duties and pow­
ers of police officers. 
Roemer stated that he did not 
think the passing of a Board of 
Trustees resolution was necessary 
and thus did not act on it when the 
Board met last spring. He added 
that it was not until now that he 
thought it was a good idea. 
Faccenda stated that Roemer bas 
asked him to prepare the paper 
wort for the resolution and to 
present it to the proper bodies ·or 
the University where it must be 
approved before it goes to the 
Board of Trustees. 
YWCA sponsors discussion series 
A five part discussion series on 
"Women & Health" will be held at 
the SOUTH BEND Y.W.C.A. 
September 20 "Stnlah* Talk: 
Communicating With Your Gyne­
cologist" • Karin Hunt, R.N. 
October 4 "Aalaa: Emotional, 
Physical, and Psycho-sexual 
Changes"· Melba Laird, MSW 
October 18 "Abued Womea: 
Needs and . Resources••-Jeanne 
Swartz, Attorney; Joyce Foley 
November 1 "Medlen 111111 
Pedlatrlelau: Paths to Communi­
cation"-Chester Castor. M.D. 
November 15 "Bebla WeD: 
Exercise, Nutrition, and Emotional 
Well-Being--a Holistic Approach,.· 
Bunny Schultz 
All sessions will be held from 
7:30 to 9:30 PM at a cost of S8 for all five sessions or 52 per session. 
Those interested should register in person at the Y.W.C.A., 802 N. ~ Lafayette Blvd, on September 14, 15 from 9AM to SPM. For more information telephone: YWCA • Wome~'sC nter at 233-9491; or Indiana 'versity at 237-4135, Karin-t or Gail Dowtv. 
.. .. ' 

I 
'','•!...:<-•'-'.·'' 
...... <I 
s e riousIy, fo Iks !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
PRESSURE GROUPS on T.V. 
~!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! art bu c hwaI d : 
WASHINGTON--TV Guide had an 
article a few weeks ago which 
contained an interview with five 
television producers on the ques­
tion of TV violence. The producers 
were upset because pressure 
groups such as the Parents Teach­
ers Assn. and the American Medi­
cal Assn. were leaning on the TV 
networks to cut out violence in their 
shows. 
The networks and advertisers, 
the TV producers said. were caving 
in to the pressure. The producers 
c,msidered this a form of censor­
ship and said no one should be able 
to dictate how much violence there 
should be on telelvision. 
~y friend Joanie Conway who 
rl·ads TV Guide said to me: 
··Do I look like a pressure 
group?"" 
I looked her over. "I don't think 
!>0. 
··well, I read this article which 
said that people like myself were 
ruining television because we were 
complaining to the networks about 
the violence they were showing in 
what they like to call their 'action 
movies.' '' 
"You mean they didn't want you 
to write in to show your displea­
sure?" 
"I think so. They said the pressure groups were deciding what people could see or not see because the networks hate to get mail. Now my question is, ifl don't like violence on television how do I get my opinion over if I don't write to protest?" 
''That is a toughie,'' I admitted. "If you write, you're putting pressure on the networks. If you don't write, you'll keep getting violent shows. I would say you are within your rights to write." 
"But the producers claim the people who write in are ruining TV for the public. Aren't I the public too?" 
"I should think so," I said. "I suppose the producers were saying the mass audience likes violence on television, but the minority of the people who write letters to the networks don't. But minority opinion prevails because the net­works hate to get any mail criticiz­
ing their programming." 
"How do they know the mass of 
the people like it?" 
"Because of the audience rat­
ings. The violent shows have high 
ratings." 
"I think people will watch any­
thing on television." 
"What do you have against 
violence on television?" 
"People keep getting killed or 
knifed or beaten up; cars keep 
crashing into each other, and the 
impression you get is that the 
country is full of psychos. The 
police aren't that nice, either. 
They're always beating up anyone 
who won't tell them what they want 
to know." 
''The producers claim they aren't showing violence for the sake of violence. They have to have the violence so they'll have action. The TV viewer likes his action." 
"Well, I don't like it and I think it's bad for kids to see it. They show them how to rob stores, make bombs and blow up safes. That's not my idea of show biz." 
"But it does raise a problem. Killing on television is as American as apple pie. I'm not sure TV could survive without it." 
"That's whllt the producers said in TV Guide," Joanie told me. "They said if they can't have violence in their shows there would be no conflict, and the American public would be cheated out of good television." 

"They may have a point,'' I said. "Murder, rape, arson and dope peddling does have a lot of conflict in it." 
"But how much of it do we have to take? The producers claim they make these shows because the public wants them. Well, I'm the public and I don't want them, and so when I write in they say I am a pressure group. If I liked them what would that make me?" 
"A pro-violence consumer, guess.'' 
Joanie said, "I'd rather be a pressure group." 
"Go ahead if you want to, but if they can't beat up and murder people on TV any more, it's going to be on your conscience." 
*Observer 
Editorials 
----~------~---­

----~-~ -~----. 

Sure, there are many programs 
A program sponsored by ND 

taking students off campus to work Urban Studies, Neighborhood
for South Bend: tutoring, Logan Roots, silences the complaints of Center, foster grandparents, and 
students who claim they've no
P.O.BOX Q 
coaching basketball. For these 

transportation or opportunity to commendable projects, students "get out." The "cultural waste­donate precious time. They help land .of the Midwest" may yetothers, and hopefully both are 
surpnse us. I thank the organizersrewarded. But these are too 
for offering me a "social back­limited--we are invited into the 
ground to complement" my "aca­
Thank you 

community, but are not members demic studies." 
of it. 

aareLeary Soon many of us will have jobs in 
Dear Editor: 
unfamiliar cities. We will want to 
I feel that the Notre Dame students 
meet people socially, join a parish,
and faculty should support Prof. 
get to know our neighbors and be 
EDITOR'S NOTE: The opinionDanehy's appeal. It is an oppor­
responsive members of the com­
column on the Sophomore Yeartune time for all of us to repay Prof. 
munity. Off-campus living, com­
Abroad, printed In last Friday'sDanehy for his generous contribu­
munity internships, and student 
Observer was written by Andrewtions and assistance that he so 
teaching are preparations for that 
Teske. We apologize to Mr. Teskeheartily offered to us as students future. 

for leaving his name off his work. Carol Lally 
and faculty. 


A cultural 

SPEND TIME •
1n INDIA
wasteland 
Dear Editor: 

!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! john hanna n 
A South Bend native stopped in my room the other day wearing a Dear Editor: best way possible; they aquitted T-shirt which said, "Nowhere but In view of the recent foodfights the notorious Hunter. 
South Bend." I complimented him 

and property destruction in the A deal of consternation arose in on his display of civic pride. He dining halls I would suspect the the administration over a situation quickly admitted that he'd wanted 
administration to presently mount of, to their minds, miscarriage of the pulpit in order to denounce justice which they had createdthe shirt to read, "Anywhere but such actions as irresponsible, im­themselves. Their next step was toSouth Bend," but the "any" moral and irrational, which indeed appeal the case to the Universitywasn't available. 
they are (I challenge anyone to Appeals Board 15 days after the It seems no Notre Dame student defend those actions as not such-­Judicial Board's decision and con­wants to admit that there is side of a follower of Niestche.) siderably after the deadline for an anything good about South Bend. apt>eal. Indeed if AI had appealed 
However intensely the administra­
tion's protests present themselves, 
that late it would have been refusedWe know little about the city except I can't see how the administration (and if I try to drop a course thatwhere to find Vegetable Buddies, (specifically St. Hesburgh or Dean long after the last add-drop day itThrifty Mart, The Moonraker, or 

Roemer) can expect to have any 
too will be refused.)
Scottsdale Mall. We care even 
moral claim to Jay upon us. One 
But much in the spirit of "Weless. This is unfortunate. We 
can only demand morality of others 
make the rules, we break theisolate: ourselves from community if he demands it of himself; rules" or "They are my rules, I'll activities. We think of that anything else is too irrational, do whatever I want", the appealcommunity as made up only of our irresponsible and immoral (in the went through and was successful. 
sense of hypocrisy.)

maids, gardeners, and the groups Fr. Hesburgh,C.S.C., the engineer
The case against the administra­
of this railroad, and Dean Roemer, tion is quite clear. They set up a 
the conductor, can, in my or 
set of guidelines which are to 
anyone else's eyes, have no moral 
protect the good order of the 
claim to lay on us about food
community and the rights of 
fighting. So they will instead resort
students [duLac], which therefore 
to coercion. 
carries a moral claim with it, and 


then proceed to use the guidelines when it suits their best interest, and not use them when it dOes not. 
Case in point: AI Hunter. Leaving aside AI s guilt or inno­cence {1, for one, believe the former is more fitting his state), the way his case was handled violated first of all du I.e, and second of all any claim of fairness one man might put upon another man. The facts are familiar to the readers of The Observer. Hunter was denied access to those accusing him in order to discredit their testimony (a thing not easily done in his particular case), and the Judical Board was not allowed access to the same witnesses in order to do their job in the best way possible. 
Ted (social justice) He~burgh--1 one must be just in one's own house before he can be truly just on a national level--gave no good reason for insisting on affidavits rather than direct testimony. So the J-Board did their job in the next 
Mind you, the above polemis did not resort to using Christian principles on Rev. HesburghC.S.C. I suppose Rev. Hesburgh was not going to let AI get away twice in spite of the rules of justice in du 
I.e. Doing so the first time was either 1) stupid on his part or 2) discriminatory due to Al's status as 
a football player. (Ara and Ted had a long talk about it the summer before Ara resigned.) 
My comments to the food fight­ers are brief: you all should be either expelled, or put on suspen­sion for the semester, under the condition the semester be spent in India or the slums of South America before you are readmit­ted. If anyone would like to debate the point, I'd be glad to talk to them. I would also be glad to see some dorm sponsor a bull session with Ted or Roemer. As the president and former provost have so often said, this is a special place where very special things h~ppen; 

-~------------~--~­
Tuesday, September 13, 1977 the observer 
Of Emmy Awards 
'Walkout' causes telecast delay 
[coatlnued frwa page 3] 
For the second year in a row, 
Daniel Petrie won as director of a 
special drama or comedy program, 
"Eleanor and Franklin". 
The award for outstanding clas­
sical program in the performing 
arts was presented to the American 
Ballet Theater's "Swan Lake"· 
The enthusiastic black-tie audi­
ence gave a rousin~ ovation to Mary Tyler Moore and Alan Aida, presenters of the first awards for outstanding continuing perfor­mances in a comedy sderies. 
Ms. Place, who prefers that designation, was winner in a syndicated show against four net­work nominees. She told the audience, "As Loretta would say, 'I'm fit to be tied."' 
She thanked the creators of 
This is the semester to get your 
programmable. 

Tl Programmable 57. The powerful superslide rule calculator you can program right from the keyboard. Comes with an easy­to-follow, self-teaching learning guide-over 200 pages of step-by-step instructions and ex­amples. Quickly learn the value of making re­petitive calculations at the touch of a key. Recall entire instruction sequences. Display intermediate results at any point in a calcula­tion. Eight multi-use memories provide ad­dressable locations to store and recall data. Program memory stores up to 150 keystrokes (50 program steps). Editing too: Singlestep. Backstep. Insert or delete at 
any point in a program. Also a powerful 
$7995* 
slide rule calculator with logs, trig func­tions and advanced statistics routines. 
The Tl-58 and Tl-59 combine three major inno­vations to bring the power of programming to you-even if you've never programmed before: 
1. 
Extraordinarily powerful-at remarkable low prices. 

2. 
Revolutionary plug-in modules put comp_tex formulas to work at the touch of a key. • 

3. 
Step-by-step learning guide that take$ you from the basics of programming through advanced programmings-language you can understand. 



Tl Programmable 58. up to 480 program steps, or up to 60 memories. Master Library module contains 25 prewritten programs in math, engineering, statistics and finance. Also increases number of steps-up to 5000. Library programs may also· be addressed from the key­board or inserted as subroutines. Can also be used with Tl's new PC-100A printer/plot­ter. It lets you plot, 
print headings and prompt-messages. 

Tl Programmable 59. More powerful than the Tl-58. Up to 960 program steps or up to 100 memories. Magnetic cards store up to 960 steps. And, record and pro-* 
teet custom programs. Also 10 user 
$29995 
flags. 6 levels of subroutines. 4 types of branches. · 
Optional Libraries. Applied Statistics, Surveying, Real Estate/Finance, Aviation, Marine Navigation. $35.00* each. 
"Mary Hartman, Mary Hartman" and said, "Its lucky to have ever gotten on the air." 
The awards for continuing per­formances by supporting players in a drama series were Gary Frank and Kristy McNichol, both of "Family". 
Emmy presen1tations were late this year becaus(: of an East-West squabble betwee111 members of the National Academy of Television Arts and Sciences. 
The Emmies were scheduled to be presented last May, but the Hollywood chapter of the television Academy staged a walkout, saying the organization was dominated by trustees in New York and other cities. Most series stars refused to appear on the NBC broadcast and the net\vork found itself withopt a. 

show. 
After court suits and cross-coun­try accusations, a compromise was reached. The prime-time awards would be presented by the Holly­wood people; the National Aca­demy would handle the rest. But the two units remained divided. Hollywood formed its own organi­zation, separate from the Eastern­
ers. 


FREE. 

When you buy a TI Programmable 58 or59 you can get this 19-program Leisure Library. 
f 
A SJS.OO valt,te ifyou act now. 
I 
Football Predictor. Forecast scoreipnt spread. Bowling Scorekeeper. Track 90 bowlers. Go Handicapper. Up­date handicap from latest round's sc e. Bridge. Computes points from tricks made and bid. U • Chess Federation Ranking&. Wins. losses, draws. Co breaker. 3.024 possi­
ble codes make this a unique challenge. Black Jack. Acey Ducey. Craps. Mars Lander. Pilolto a safe landing. Jive Turkey. Guess mystery number-tells you if you're high or low-but is it jiving you? Nlm • .Play the machine. each time it gets better. Sea Battle. 15 missiles to sink sub. Quarterback. Call plays. Photo 1. Compensate for change in photo enlargement magnification. Photo II: Fill-in-ftash. Computes correct lens !-stop in strong ambient light. Use it with a PC-100A and have even rilore fun. Computer Art. Hangman. Put in a word, second ~ayer guesses or hangs. Memo Pad. Write. enter message Print and record them on 59's mag card. Use the card o replay the message. Biorythm. Plots all three cycles. \ 
r:------1---­

I 
oner good lrum August 15 to Octob.r 31, 19n. Here's wllat you do. Fill out this coupon. Retpm it to Tl with your serialized Customer Information Card (packed in the box), 
I 
I along with a copy of a dated proof ipurchase showing Ithe serial number. Important. Your envelope must be postmarked no later than October 31. .977.
I . 
I
Leisure Library Offer1 P .0. Box 53. Lubbock. Texas 79408 
I 
I Name I Address 
I C~--­I 


------, 
State  Zip_______  
l  I  
Tl 58 or 59 Serial Number  (from back of calculator). 

I Texas Instruments reserves the right to substitute software libranes of equal value based 011 availabiily. ·I Please allow 30 days for delivery. Offer void where prohiMed by law. Good 111 continental U.S. o_nly. --_j
L_____ ·----­
I I I 
I 

"Suggested retail price. 
TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 
~ 
INCOIRPORATED 


~---------.,.....---~ ~---~--­
Renovations cost $700,000 ,., ,-~~;;;;;;;;;;;-~, 
hyMan Perry May, was scheduled to be com­and back up to the roof. Stall Reporter pleted by Sept. l, Bottei said, but 'The gases are then thrown high I IMPORTANT PEOPLE TO: 

delays in the delivery of the into the atmosphere by the exhauseStudents passing the rear of 
Nieuwland Science Hall may have supplies have pushed the expected fans, where they are diffused into I I noticed the addition of a new completion date to October 1. the atmosphere, not back into the strurlure on the side of the Before this time they hope to building. 1-Plan, Coordinate and Inspire I 
inspect the work to see if anything With the new system, the air inbuilding. the new "chimney" and 
needs to be improved, Bottei said. the labs is changed about 16 times I Spiritual Activities Iair ducts .are part of the renovation 
The heart of new ventilation per hour, as opposed to only 4 to 5of the chemistry laboratories' system is on the roof of Nieuwland times per hour with the old system. on the Spiritual Commission
I I
ventilation inside Nieuwland. 
Science Hall behind the new shaft. Bottei added that though the new
Renovations are also being made to improve the interior of the labs. Two huge supply fans and an system has increased production, 
Dr. Rudolph Bottei, assistant intricate exhaust system are lo­the noise generated by the I I cated here, in addition to the ventilation is hardly noticeable.
chairman of the chemistry depart­ment and director of the re­various ducts extending from the The system is virtually the same I Call Jeanne at SMC 4945 1 
novations project,said that about labs, many of which are housed in for the research Jabs, only the . I the new shaft. hoods for these labs are much 
I

$700,000 is being spent on the 
improvements, with most of the The two supply fans, one for the larger. Each of the teaching labs \ for your interview ; teaching labs and one for the also has a few of this large research
money going towards the new 
ventilation system. research labs, pump about 45,000 type hoods. cubic feet of air per minute into the The major improvement after the
The project was first discussed 
~·--------------~ 
building. Bottei explained that the ventilation system will be the ,about four or five years ago and 
installation of new plumbing for the ri:M:::tc~IOOI:M:X:>c:IOOI:M:::tc:>c:ICOc::MXX::IOOc::MX::IC~
had been in the planning stage for air is brought down to a certain temperature before reaching the lab tables and research hoods.
the last two years, Bottei ex­
labs, but the system was not equal Bottei said that the chrome pipes,plained. 
to air conditioning. which corroded quickly, have beenThe faculty had requested the 
The clean air is then fed into the replaced with sepin bronze pipes,improvement of the ventilation 
various labs in the building through which have a special finish to~ystem, and the department de­new ducts on the ceiling. New retard this ~orrosion .
.:ided to improve the labs while the ceiling lights have also been in­The lab appearance has also
ventilation system was being insalled, he continued. 
stalled below the ductwork to been improved. Lab tables disguise the system while it is cabinets have been refinished andThe project, which began last 
operating. the walls repainted with enamel In the teaching labs, each lab paint for easier cleaning.AII the
Women's track 
station has been supplied with a new duct work is the same color as station hood, made out of tempered the rest of the lab, to blend in with
to meet tomorrow 
glass panels and stainless steel the interior. The Women's Track-Cross Coun­frames. Bottei noted that all the Bottei concluded that all the try team will hold an organizational student's experiments will be con­reactions to the new improvementsmeeting on tomorrow from 7 to 8 ducted under these station hoods. have been favorable, with some 
p.m. in the LaFortune Theatre. All The exhaust sustem then takes the professors saying that it was"100 prospective new members, as well dangerous gases out of the room to 1000 percent better." as old members, should attend. Also invited are any women in­terested in a 6-week running 
Student Union Quickie
conditioning program to be held this Fall. Those unable to attend 
the meeting should call Helen to ~egin service Friday Weber at n60. by Dave Rumbaeb St. Mary's, Forum 1 & 2 Cinemas, StaffReponer Kubiak's, Shula's, and Heidle­
No gift in this world can match diamond for beauty,berg's. An all-night pass is S1, and 
durability and lasting value. But how can you beFremeau named The Quickie bus, a Student the last bus will leave the Notre certain of gem quality when buying? Our member­
Joan Fremeau has been appoint­Union sponsored shuttle to several Dame Circle at 12:30 pm director ship in the American Gem Society assures you we
ed Copy Editor to replace Barb nightspots in Michigan, will begin Devine reported. 
are dependable and gemologically trained to serve.
Langhenry who assumed the posi­operation this Friday, announced 
The Quickie schedule for Sep­

And we constantly add to our knowledge
tion of News Editor. Quickie director, James Devine. 
tember and October is as follows: 

through AGS. Use our expertise to vouch
Fremeau was previously a Senior The first bus will leave the Notre 
Sept. 16, 23, and 30, Oct. 7 and 14. 

for your purchase-now and for the future.
Staff Reporter and Copy reader for Dame Circle at 7:30 pm with 
Tentative dates for November are

the ObRrvH. She is a senior additional buses leaving the Circle 
the 4th, 11th, and 18th.

American Studies Major from Chel­every half hour. The buses will 
V.AN HORNE &Co. 
105 W. WASJo.IINGTON AVE.

msford, Massachusetts. regularly stop atH~Iy Cross Hall at Devine added that Star Wars wiJI 
be playing at the Forum 1 Cinema

,....................... 
at 9:30 and that MacArthur will be at Forum 2 at 9:15 on Friday night. 
@ 


SOUTH BII:ND, INDIANA 46601 
Anyone interested in working on 
Mon. 10:30 am-7:00pm
Member American
the Quickie should contact Devine 
Tues. sat 9:30 am.s :15 pm
Gem Society
at 3537, 

··~············..••••··•••••••
: ND TAE KWON oo· :
$150 
: KARATE CLUB :
1 
Regular Menu Price 1 : master instructor: RAY SELL : One Coupon Per Pizza I • 1973 World Champion • 
NY FAMILY SIZE PIZZ~ : TONIGHT • THICK OR THIN CRUST 1 •· Beginner's class 6pm wrestling room ACC : 
expires Sept. 18 , 1977 • $500 off membership tee tree training manual + 
: FOR MORE INFO: call Tom 3253 :·
ALL MAJOR SPORTS 
1 ..............................
ON 7FT T.V. ,' ­
,~ 5POc3QI~Pikim-RatesT '"l
Sunday Beer! I OlderDirect From The Publisher! 
BEER AND WINE 7 DAYS A WEEK Name
I PIJLYJIOY (please pron1) I 
I I
Save 50% on 12 issues ol Address Piayboy-$9.50
(Now $19.00 on the newsstand)

I I 
I 
Crty Please enter my subscription lor 
0 1 year-$9.50 (save $9.so·) 

State Zip 
I ~!!n!r my subscription for 
P1uyboy College Center
I 
01 year-$9.50 (save $9.50•)
"Based on single-copy prices. 
Chicago, IDinois 60611
Rates apply to U.S.. U.S. Pass..
I 
Canada. APO·FPO addresses only. 

.:: Payment enclosed (Payment must accom· pany all Ouo orders Make check payable to4433 0 Pk. ase send inlormatoon on how Playboy.) 
I can sell Playboy and Ouo subs 0 Bill me later. (Apploes to Playboy sut>etropliOns\ ~ ·"1977!"!'bovf'ronted on U.S A on cam~ only.J 
E 


Tuesday, September 13. 19n

In library the obyrver 
Programs limit noise 
Catherine Farren 
The library staff has introduced several programs to cut down the noise level in the Memorial Lib­rary. 
"People are here studying and they're naturally going to take a break, so there's a certain amount of socializing going on,'' pointed out Brother Frank Drury, co­ordinator of library instruction. 
To retain the scholarly atmos­phere of the upper floors, tables and chairs have been added to the canteen in the library basement. 
A leisure reading collection of paperbacks has been installed in the second floor College Library for those who need a respite from heavier reading, and Drury hopes to add an assortment of recreation­al magazines to compliment the paperback collection. 
These innovations were brought about by last year's situation on the 

New tables have been added in the basement of the library to enhance the social 2nd floor. At that time, too many students were congr•~gating on the second floor after 8 p.m., Drury recalled. 
"I felt the floor it!;elf was pretty good, considering the number of people that were th·ere," he said, "but when the stud•ents took their breaks, they went into the lobby, and the noise filtered in." 
When asked aboutt the students using the library, the staff ex­pressed satisfactiion with the students' conduct. 
"I think they (the~ students) are starting to study more frequently than usual," said Marco Egoavil, a PhD candidate who works in the periodical section.' 'They're better students and they want to stay." 
According to Eva MacKowsky of Exit Control, the ti.rst days of the semester were unusually heavy. "I: would say just more or less getting i acquainted with the library. I think there are more classes being held in the library this year. I think the enrollment may be higher." 
Since the first few days of class the volume of stud•ents has leveled off to an average of about 2,000 a day. However, as the semester progresses, that figure is predicted to increase and finally peak around exam time, whtm the library averages about 8000 people. 
Jeanne or Mo. 
Wanted: 4 GA tic~:ets for Southern Cal. Will pay good bucks. Call1423, ask for Mike. 
Desperately need tickets to Michi­gan State and Southern Cal. Please call Marianne at 1262. 
Please, I need four Michigan tickets. Call Alicia 8117. 
4 GA football llickets. NO-USC. Together or 2 e1nd 2. Call 288­1884. 
1want to trade 4 F'Urdue-N D fOOtball tix for 4 ND-Mid!igan State tix. Call 277-3604. 
Wanted: 3 Pun:lue-ND tickets. Please call 4101 or 5431. 
Wanted: Two tile for Purdue. Will pay good bucks, 234-2999. 
Need ride to Cincinnati or vicinity, 
Sept. 23. Call 6964. 
Julio's needs Clelivery personnel. Part-time or full-time. Guarantee $3.00 per hour. Call 233-2354. 
Help wanted: Rt!Sident student cas­hier & usher. Must be able to work nights, weekends and holidays, hourly wage. Ji<pply in person to Mario Randazzo, Forum Cinema 52709 u.s. 31 1\lorth. 
Will trade 2 Geo•rg ia Tech or 2 Army for 2 Southern Cal. All GA. Paula 6354. 
Big money for 4 GA tix to Mich. State. Call JaCCJ•b 8720. 
Desperately ne•ed 1 student ticket to Mich. State. Please call 4-4894. 
Wanted: 4 tix to Michigan State. Call Mary Pat at 288-8235. 
Wanted: Six G.a tickets to USC. Call Jeanne at 4-4001. 
Kitchen help part-time. Hourly wage. Apply in person. Pinocchio's Pizza Parlor. Georgetown Shopping Center. Only 4 minutes away. Ask for Jackie. 
Part-time waitresses. Must be 21. Apply in persc1n to Pinocchio's Pizza. Parlor. Georgetown Shopping Cen­ter. Only 4 minutes away. Ask for Jackie. 
Rese,~rch Assistant Conduct historical research for Dis­covery Hall Museum, Century Cen­ter. Prefer graduate student in history, American Studies or related field. Some prior research-museum experience desireable. 

TENNIS WEAR 
I 
I 

·WARM UP SUITS SWIM WEAR & T ·SHIRii"S 
I
ATHLETIC BAGS 
I. 

100 CENTER 
255-7770 

·MISHAWAKA 
20 hours per week for six to seven months; $3.70 per hour. Send resume by September 20, 1977 to: Personnel, Attn: Discovery Hall 1200 County-City Building south Bend, Indiana 46601. 
Needed desperately: 2 GA tickets for Michigan State. Call Tom, 287­3987. Gooc bucks! 
4 GA Purdue tlx. Call 232-5926. In evenings 288-6115. 
· Need 1 student or GA ticket to Air FOrce game. Pay good SSS. Call 8207. 
1need 2 tfx to Mich. State. Call Russ at 8772. 
----,---------­
Filthy rii:h aunt from California requires .. GA tlx for USC. MONEY NO OBJECT! Call Tim at 1605. 
----~---------­
Need 4 GA tickets to Mich. State, Oct. 1. Call Meg . 4-4046. Will pay 
ss. 
FORSI LE 
'72 Triumph Spitfire. Must sacrifice. $1300 or best Offer. 232-3276 after 5. 
Comingware electric percolators (coffee pots) 50 percent off. Call 2985. 
Dissecting' sets, supplementary Chern, Bio. textbooks. Science lab­ware, equipment, instruments. Call 8785 for more info. MERRELL SCIENTIFIC. 
For Sale: Panasonic S-track recorder excellent condition. $100 or best offer. Call Brian 8760. 
Pandoras Books, 937 South Bend Ave. has the just published paper­back version of Kurt Vonneguts Slapstick for 20 percent off. Also on sale are other best sellers. And newly in stock is Tolkein's Simi­rillion. 
Sansui receiver 50-50 watts. Garrard turntable. Shure cartridge. Pioneer 3-way speakers. Teac reel to reel. Accessories. 8338. 
Bogen amplifier. Good for rock group, etc. Gary 284-4247 days. 
Texas Instruments SR-56 Program­mable Calculator with applications library, coding forms, operating 
. manual, AC-DC adapter-charger. Two months old. 277.1606 after 6:00 p.m. 
Sansui 7 receiver. Great shape. 225.00 (?) 289-1829 after 7. 
FOR RENT 

Country house for rent for to 3 students. 10 minutes from NO campus. Phone 277-3604. 
LOST& FOUND 

Lost: 3 keys at South Quad picnic 
Friday. Reward. Call 7957. 
Lost: Seiko watch somewhere be­tween Senior Bar & Fisher Hall. Reward. Call283-1928. 
Lost: Dog. Shepard-husky gold, black & white. Lincoln Way, Portage area. Very special. Call Becky · 232-6362. 
Lost: Skindiver watch with brown leather band. Please clall Mike 8889 137 Zahm. 
Lost: Wallet with 10 Saturday night between Engineering Auditorium and Grace Hall. Useless to anyone else. Call Tom 6713. Reward. 
FOund: On sidewalk 1976 Holy Cross preparatory class ring. Call Denise 4-5402. 
FOund: ladles watch at Rockne. Call 1313. 
Lost: Silver Cross pen with initials PAJ. Near bookstore. Call 8798. 
Lost: '76 class ring, Brother Rice High School, Chicago. Initials RJR. Call Bob 8707. A modest reward is Offered. 
PERSONALS 

aclidas "On Campus". Grand open­ing sale shoes, clothes, acces. also: Frank Shorter gear. Mon-Fri: 7-9. Call : 3078, 425 Fisher. 
II Ell 
I'm beside you all the way because 1 love you so much. You are Numero Uno in my life. 
Bozo 

Need ride to Cleveland for Friday, Sapt. 16. Call Kathy 1264. 
Dear Jock in 29 Pangborn, Don't forget the party in Regina Friday nlte. Luv, 
Your Turnpike Buddies 

Joe Bauer has this thing for elbows; Sunday nights, especially. 
Thanks to KK, Katie, Kim, Ger­maine, Lisa and the 30 guys who made the trek up 11 tortuous flights 
_,of stairs to help celebrate my 21st. A · special thanks to Roger, AJ, Ruth, Lou, Sharon, Linda and Watermelon Wall! Oooh feel the velvet. Ben 
Classified Ads 
NOTICES 
Byzantine Catholic and Eastern Orthodox students at NO and SMC as well as any others Interested in Byznatine church life should stop at the Campus Ministry Office (Mem­orial Library, near main entrance) before September 16 to sign the list at the secretary's desk. Attempts are being made to organize a Byzantine Christian organization. 
Any desiring photos of Unda Ron­stadt taken in concert Monday, Aug. 29 (color or black & white) please contact John at 8340 or 136 Zahm. 
Typing. Reasonable rates. Call 8051 
Sewing repairs. Reasonable. Call 8051. 
WANTED 
Need six Southern Cal tix. Mark 287-7051. 
2-4 USC tickets. Student or GA. Will pay MONEY! Suzy 5148. 
Urgent! Need any number of Mich. State tix. Also need fix 1o any home game. Call Donna or Suez: 255­1147. 
1 or 2 GA Navy tickets. Call David 8697. 
Will pay extra for 4 good GA tlx to Michigan State. Joan 1280. 
Need tix to Purdue & USC games. Call John 1196. 
Anyone going Blacksburg, Va. Des­perately need ride any weekend. WIll pay I!!. Call Kathy 4-4287. 
Ticket to Mich. game. Will pay SS. Call Mike 289-8036. 
Two tickets to Michigan State game, either GA or student ticket. Call Mark 1436. 
Desperately need GA tickets to Michigan State and Southern Cat. Will pay good ss. Call Paul 1470. 
Desperately need 1 ticket to Michi­gan or So. Cat. Call Dave 3542. 
Wanted: 5 USC tickets. Call Paul at 1424. 
Need GA and student football tix to any home game. Call 8051. 
Wanted: Michigan State tickets general admission, preferably. Will pay S. Call 4-4001 and ask for 
Classified ad rates 
RATES. Classified ads are charged according to the chart below. NUftilBER OF DAt\'S 
• 1 2 3 4 5 
~ 1-110 1,00 1:30 1.55 1.75 -2.~
1:11: 
,1-15 1.35 1.85 ·2.25 2.50 2.85
0 
~ 16·20 1.65 2i30 2.55 2.95 3.20 1.1. 21-25 2:os 2.90 3.50 4.25 4.90
0 
:.t~lO 2.45 3.50 4.25 5.15 5.90
1:11: 
w 31..]5 2.80 4.00 4.75 5.85 8.2Q 
a:l 36-40 3.15 4.55 s,rss 7.10 8.6~ 
~ 
41-45 3.40 5.05 6.~0 7.45. 9.40
;:) 
z 46-50 3.90 ~55 6.90 8:20 "10.20.
.. 
::. 
DEADLINE. All classifieds must be received by 5:00 pm, two days prior to the issue in which the ad is to run. The Observer office will accept classifieds Monday through Firday, 
10:00 am to 5:00 pm. 
PAYMENT. All classifieds must be pre-paid, either in person or through the mail. 
Classified Ads are non-refundable. 

! Tuesday, September 13, 1977 
I 8 
Irish harriers trounce Boilermakers 
by Grepry Solman One person who certainly started and again part of the pack, posted a Sports Writer off on the right foot was plucky 25:46 time to take fourth place. Dennis VanderKraats, who posted Another seasoned Irish Harrier, 
On a warm and sunny day at a 25:39 time for the five mile course Joe Strohman, took sixth place with Purdue last Saturday, the Notre_ while taking second place behind a 25:50 time. Dame Cross Country team brilliant­Purdue's Robin Liddell's 25:20 Sandwiched between Notre ly demonstrated one of the sport's winning time. VanderKraats had Dame runner's in the top ten, were maxims: that there is safety in logged over 100 miles of practice Purdue's Bogenshutz, placing fifth numbers. the previous week. and Taylor who polled seventh. 
Another runner who had postedCoach Joe Piane's harriers ran as 
Revenge might well be the

100 miles in the week before theif they were a pack of wolves-­
theme for the next Irish meet, as

race was Senior Dan Horgan, whohungry, and in swiftly moving 
the harriers face Michigan State,

polled third in the race just fivegangs. In doing so, the Irish 
who have defeated Notre Dame

seconds behind teammate Vander­started the cross-country season on 
nine times in the last ten years.
Kraats.

a note of vengence, defeating this 
The September 23 meet will be

"This could be the start of a newyear's edition of the Purdue Boiler­
held at the Notre Dame golf course, 

era," commented an exuberantmakers, who's teams had defeated 
as the Irish enjoy the luxury of four

Horgan, "I am the only Senior onthe Irish the last two years. 
uninterrupted home meets.

this year's squad. I think that we'llThis year, Notre Dame finished go to the nationals this year, and H attitude is any indication ofher first seven men within twenty­will have a shot at the state success for the Irish, Piane insists two seconds of each other, and 
, 
championship. H so, recruiting that his team has the best he couldsoundly thrashed the Boilermak­should get even better than it was ask for. In fact, several of the 
1
22-37. 
last year. The program as a whole veteran runners, like VanderKraats 
"We're just happy to start the is really looking good." and Horgan, are running extra a son off on the right foot," Piane's recruits paid off for him mileage--plus the required 85 miles lated a satisfied Coach Piane, immediately, as freshmen Charlie per week. 
'We have just one goal, and that is Fox, Mike Maney and Chuck It all adds up to what could be ato get a team to the nationals, but Aragon took seventh, ninth and banner year in cross-country...or, we· d like to establish a winning tenth places respectively. Veteran in the words of Dan Horgan, "the tradition along the way." Steve Welch, off the injured list start of a new era.'' 
Jack Brownschidle goes pro 
by Gregory Solman Mater. scored 20 goals and 14 assists Sports Writer "I'd like to come down and see teamed with two other rookies last some games, and at the same time, season. 
For Jack Brownschidle, the "on­I'd like to be playing somewhere In addition, Clark Hamilton sign­ward to victory" strain of the Notre where I won't get to see them." ed a contract this summer with the Dame fight song begins September Ideally, that location would be Detroit Redwings, Brian "Dukie" 
19. St. Louis. Walsh is scheduled to try out with 
That's when Brownschidle, two­Another Brownschidle ioins the the Bruins of Beantown, and Paul time all-American defensemen for roster this year in the person of Oarke and Roger Bourke have the Irish, enters training camp for Jack's younger brother, Jeff. been scheduled to attend the the St. Louis Blues, with whom he "I haven't seen him play for training camp of the defending just signed a two-year contract. awhile," scouted Jeff's elder, "but NHL champion Montreal Cana­
dians.

Though Brownschidle isn't as­in my probably-biased opinion, sured of a berth on the NHL club, he's reportedly a very good hockey 
Tracksters want

he commented, "I'll know better player." 
what my chances will be once I get Brownschidle joins an elite group those interested 
to training camp." in playing pro hockey from Notre 
There will be an organizational

For Notre Dame's first two-time Dame. Bill Nyrop of the Montreal 
meeting for anyone interested in

all-American hockey player, it was Canadians rotates regularly at de­
participating in indoor or outdoor 

a moment he'd long waited for. fense with the likes of Serge 
track today, at 4 p.m. in the ACC

With a bright future ahead of him, Savard, Larry Robinson, Guy La­
auditorium. Any interested stu­

Brownschidle still expressed a Pointe, and Henri Bouchard. Alex 
dent is urged to attend.

longing to be back at his Alma Pyrus of the Minnesota Northstars 
There will be an organizational sport, in which qualified lifters will meeting of the W eightlifting Oub be competing against other
Ted Robinson============================================================================================·==============================:=============:=:=====:===========================:===========:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:======: 
this Wednesday, September 14, at schools. Categories of competition 
4 p.m. in the weightlifting room of include the bench press, deadlift, 
the ACC. AU interested students squat lift and a total weight
An Open Letter 
are asked to attend. category. Interested lifters can W eightlifting at Notre Dame has choose to · compete in any one become a university funded club category or in any combination. 
:===================================:========================:;===:==================================================================================:===:=========:=:=:=======================:One man's view 
Dear Baseball Fans and Yankee-hitting. George Steinbrenner, because the 
Haters, Now, let's look at what the free agents he signed are not eh 
DePauwsplits with ND-SMC 
When is all this complaining· Yankees have besides their "best the key players in the Yankees' going to stop? When are you going play~rs that money can buy." success. to realize that baseball has They have Chris Chambliss and The same owners who com-by Laurie Rei8IDg Hunter 6-4,6-3. The combination changed and money is the name of Craig Nettles in the infield. They plaiDed when Steinbrenner opened Women's Sports EdiCor of Brogger and Bracken clicked as the game? were acquired from Oeveland a-his wallet drool over turnstile St. Mary's tennis team got their they marched to a 6-3,6-2 victory 
Somehow, the New York Yan-long with reliever Dick Tidrow for counts when the Yankees play in season off on the right foot Satur­over Mochovak and Henderson. kees have acqu;red the nickname of Fritz Peterson, Steve Kline, Fred their ball park. Many of these day as they soundly defeated For coach Kathleen Cordes it the "Millionaire Oub." Somehow, Been, Tom Buskey, Charlie Spikes, owners also tried to improve their powerful DePauw University 8-1. was a banner day all around. the Boston Red Sox and the Rusty Torres and John Ellis. clubs by dipping into the free agent In spite of extremely windy Cordes, who also serves as Athletic Philadelphia Phillies were left out. Chambliss is one of the steadiest pile. Boston felt that Bill Camp-playing conditions, St. Mary's Director at St. Mary's, saw the 
Somehow, the New York Yan-hitters in the game and Nettles is bell, a premier reliever, would help managed a sweep of all but one of formal dedication of her new kees are being maligned for sign-aflawless fielder who can also hit them catch the Yankees. Yet, their the singles matches. Barb TIDUD, athletic facility earlier in the after­ing two free agents last winter. homers and drive in runs. This supporters are the first to label the senior, looked strong and consis­noon. Cordes said, "I'm very Remember that the California trade ranks with the Joe Morgan Yankees as "rich boys." .. tent in her game as she easily took excited and pleased over all of the -Angels signed three and the San trade as one of the best in recent In fact, if you want to talk care of opponent Amy Bash 6-1, girl's performances. I feel we have Diego Padres signed two. baseball history· numbers, the Boston lineup on 6-0. Teammate and veteran Louise a great team this season." 
In reality, the Yankees have The list continues. Sparky Lyle, Opening Day had a higher com-Purcell didn't fare quite as weD as From over 40 girls that tried out acquired a bum rap. It came from the AL's top reliever in 1977, from biDed salary than the Yankee she suffered defeat at the hands of two weeks ago, Cordes selected a people who refuse to recognize the Boston for Danny Cater. Lou lineup. So did the Philadelphia Ann Baur 3-6,2-6. squad of18. "There were so many changing face of baseball, who Piniella a consistent .280-.300 hit~ Pbillie lineup, according to the Third aiDgles player. C"mdy good players that came out, I bated refuse to acknowledge the shift in er, from Kansas C"rty for Lindy Spading News. Shuster, was ill CODtrol of the to cut any one," Cordes ·remarked. power away from the owners. McUaniel. Bucky Dent froin match as she won easily against
To prove my point, let's look at Chicago_ for Oscar Gamble. Willie The Yankee management has Leslie Kolinger, a It was a hectic and somewhat
6-2,6-3. new 
the Yankees in depth. Over the last Ran~olph ~m Pittsburgh for Doc found out that people pay to see disappointing weekend for Notre
addition to the squad this year,
two years, they have signed three Medich. Mike Torrez from Oak-a winner, and they have been Dame's women's tennis team. The
sophomore Tamy Griffin, displayed1 d fi Dock Ell determined to produce a winner. 
Irish hosted De Pauw University
free agents (Hunter, Gullet and . an or is and Marty The fans don't really care what the an amazing amount of calmness Jackson) and lost one (Doyle Alex-Perez.' and determination as she ham­
Friday afternoon bot the visitors ander). Who is going to admit that _The most important trade, outside players are making, as long as they proved to be none too gracious as
mered away at Becky HUDter to 
Messrs. Hunter, Gullet and Jackso of the afor~mentioned deal with win. Look at the attendance garner a 7-5,6-0 victory. Mean­they snatched a 5-4 victory. Many Jackson are the reason the Yankees Oeveland, was the deal which sept situation in New York. of Notre Dame's star players just
while Noreen Bracken was breez­sin? However, the rap persists. Bobby Bonds to California for Ed After hearing a year of complain-ing to a 6-0,6-1 victory over Audrey coold not pot it together against a This year, Hunter has won nine Figueroa and Mickey Rivers. ing, I'm convinced that baseball Henderson. Kelly Brogger did her strong hitting and consistent De! games and allowed an average of Figueroa was the Yanks' best fans are hypocrites. H their own part to insure a St. Mary's win as Paow squad. almost three homers per nine starter last year and could match team was winning in the same she triumphed over Betsy Mocho­In first singles action, Mary innings. Gullet hasn't pitched his total of 19 wins this year. fashion as the Yankees, their vak 6-1,6-4. Shukis was pummelled by Amy regularly all year. His record of Rivers has become baseball's pre-mouth would be silent. Therefore, Bash 6-1,6-1. Paddy Mollen mean­
The doubles teams displayed
11-4 is a testimony to the Yankee mier leadoff hitter, and despite his let's accept reality--the Yankees while was having an eqoally frus­
winning scores all the way down 
bullpen. defensive deficiencies, is the most are a prime example of success in trating time of it as she dropped
the ·line. The duo of TIIDDI and On the other hand, Jackson has valuable player on the team. the modem sports world. Their Purcell combined their ta.leats to her match to Amy Baur 6-0,6-2. In payed dividends. He has survived So, the credit for the Yankees' management should be.applauded, the most exciting game of the
win in three sets over De Pauw's 
a summer of turmoil and will drive success should go to Gabe Paul the not maligned. Koelinger and Baur, 6-2,4-6,7-5. match, Jean BartoD puOed ODe out in 100 runs. His power isn't what it man who engineered all these In second doubles action Griftin over De Pauw's Leslie Koelinger, once was, but his 178 game trades. He is a shrewd baseball Sincerely, and Shuster showed the right losiDg the first set 3-6, but comillg 
winning hits attest to his clutch man. The credit should not go·to A Frustrated Met Fan balance as they defeated Bash-
back to win the next two 7-5,7-5. \ 

Notre Dame's Dennis VanderKraats placed second in the cross­country team's opening meet victory over Purdue. 
%Observer 
Sports 
Weightlifters to organize 


