
~--------------~-~­
r--------------------­
RA positions to require financial need in future 

an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's 
Bar owners Rick Kanser, Nickie Bilello and Theresa Bauer were present yesterday to discuss bar-related problems in the Corby-Eddy area. [Photo by Barbara Dodge] 
by Bob Varettoni Senior Staff Reporter 
After this year, RA's will be appointed only after applicants have proven a financial need for the job, according to Fr. Terrence Lally, assistant vice-president of Student Affairs. 
Lally said that five out of eight ND students fit into the financial need category. Rectors will be allowed to pick "the very finest'' candidates from this group, he added. 
Lally noted that RA jobs will still go to the best qualified, but he added that "a lot of qualified people" who don't need fnancial aid aren't going to get a job. Student Affairs, Lally said, has its primary responsibility to those students who need financial aid. 
"There are kids leaving college with debts, we want to help them," Lally said. "I personally agree with the need factor being a criteria next year. Grants in aid, scholar­ships, and employment are desig­ned to aid this need." 
Rectors may still want to debate this issue, Lally added. He said most rectors do not see financial need as important a criteria as merit. 
Fr. Raymond Holtz, rector of Morrissey, said, "I think the first 

Tavern problems discussed with owners, neighbors, city 
by Katie Kerwin News Editor 
Student Body President Dave Bender and Dean of Students James Roemer met yesterday with the South Bend Board of Public Safety, concerned citizens, tavern m\ ners and other interested parties in an attempt to find a solution to noise. litter and nuisance problems in the Corby-Eddy tavern area. 

Members of the Northeast Neighborhood Council, which has been fighting the bar-related prob­lems for years, were present at the meeting in the Board of Public Safety meeting room in the County­City Building, as well as Col!ncil­man Roger Parent, who represents the area and Division Chief Glenn Terry of the South Bend Police. Representatives of The Library, Nickie's and Bridget McGuire's Filling Station, all bars in the area in question, also attended. 
The session was arranged follow­ing a recent increase in neighbor­hood complaints, which prompted a letter from Parent bringing the matter to the board's attention again. The board agreed at a meeting on March 23 that a cooperative effort was needed to solve the problem and invited the various groups involved to come together with the board to discuss the matter. 
Friction between bar owners and consideration is to get qualified people. Then; if it's a choice between two people equally quali­fied, it should be based on financial need." 
Sally Duffy, rector of Lewis, said she did not favor next year's plan. "I think RA is a skill position, and should be treated as such," she said. 
Other rectors, who wished to remain anonymous, agreed with Holtz and Duffy. One pointed out that RA jobs were basically differ­ent than other jobs given to 
Vol. XI, No. 111 
students who need financial aid. He said, for example, that a student did not need be as highly qualified for work in the dining halls. 
Lally said he thought the rectors had many good arguments to present. They have from now until next fall to present a different proposal, he said, and "maybe they can change things." Lally added that until recently he was in agreement with the rectors. 
However, Lally said most rectors were uninformed about the respon­sibilities of the University to those in financial need. He also disag­reed with rectors who claim they might be left with no qualified applicants next spring. 
An announcement that RA jobs would be given out only to appli­cants who needed financial aid was made early last fall by Bro. Just 
Paczesny, vice-president of Stu­dent Affairs. This agreement had been reached during a meeting of University officers in Feb., 1976. 
The reason this financial need system wasn't used in the RA 


patrons and those living in the residential areas surrounding the bars has been a problem for many years, but recent increases in noise, litter, parking violations and public nuisances caused by patrons leaving the bars have spurred angry residents to further action. Frustration resulting from years of fruitless efforts to curb the problem has compounded their annoyance. 
Stricter enforcement of existing laws was generally agreed upon by neighborhood residents, bar owners, board members and Roem­er as a necessary measure for alleviating the problems in the Corby Eddy area. As board mem­ber Louvenia Cain summed up the situation, "We seem to have indentified the main problems as litter, noise, open beverage con­tainers (being carried out of bars) and double parking. Enforcement of the law is the solution." She remarked that if police cracked down on the area, "within one month it would be cleared up." 

Roemer also spoke strongly for enforcement of laws regarding underage drinking, public intoxi­cation and disorderly conduct. He stated that he not only favored more strict enforcement of the law, he would encourage it. He warned that students who find themselves in ·violation of the law should not expect much sympathy from the University. 
"They will have to abide by the laws. If not, they'll pay the penalty," Roemer said. He added that 5tudents must learn to deal with the law and that an arrest and spending the night in jail might be "a good educational opportunity." 
Roemer said that University rules do cover off-campus situa­tions of this nature and that a new code is not needed to cover them, as had been suggested by Kanser earlier in the meeting. He also responded negatively to Kanser's suggestion that bar owners turn offenders over to Roemer for disciplinary action. While he said he would be willing to deal with students who bar owners felt had chronic problems, but had not broken the law, he would prefer to see law-breakers arrested. 
Roemer also reminded the resi­dents of the many community service projects Notre Dame stu­dents are involved in, including Logan Center and the Neighbor­hood Study Help program. He pointed out that those causing trouble in the bar areas constitute only a small part of the total student body. Roemer offerend a personal commitment to "do his best to support the neighborhood association in their efforts." 
Bender reiterated Roemer's tone of concern and support. "Student Government has a commitment to see that justice is done and there is obivously an injustic here." He 
[continued on page 6] 
;~, ~ 
.~.:;'\..~'
. ·;,.. 
.je· "' 
,. 
,' ·' :~'', 

,
, 
I 
·.·to-=:..... ')?> 
Thursday, April14, 1977 

selection process this year, Lally said, was his own fault. This fall Lally urged all students to apply for RA, regardless of their financial situation. Lally said then that he believed 80 per cent of the applica­tions would not be rejected. 
But this year, under the new system, less than SO per cent of the applicants would have been accep­ted. In Lewis Hall, for example, six out of Duffy's top seven choices would have been rejected because they did not need financial aid. 
The rectors, when they learned less than half their selections would be approved by Student Affairs. petitioned against the new system. Apparently, Lally said, the rectors had forgotten or "not taken ser­iously" the decision of Feb., 1976. 
The rectors' petition contained two proposals. First, the rectors temporarily wanted to return to the RA selection system of former years. Second, they wanted to form a task force to study the situation for next year. 
Paczesny agreed to the first proposal two weeks ago. Accord­ing to Lally, this means that Student Affairs abandoned the criteria of financial need for this year's selections. 
Because of this change in policy, several ND students were left in the dark. Some students were 
[coninued on page Sj 


Last night student body president Dave Bender held the first weekly Student Government Forum. Included in the discussion were the apathy and lad of commitment of the student body and problems concerning campus social life. The next forum will be Wed. April 20 at 6:30pm in the LaFortune Ballroom. 
Security releases intruder after Farley incidents 
by Tam Byrne 
c.mp..F.dltGI' 
An unidentified intruder appre­hended in Farley Hall last night, after barging into the rooms of several residents, was reportedly releasted later after questioning by campus security. 
Although security officials re­fused to comment on the incident to the OIJBervm, a Farley resident who called security at 1 a.m. was told by Officer Galloway of security that the man had been let go after questioning," and had not been turned over to city police. 
"He told us that South Bend police had no jursidiction over campus matters," said Kathleen Kelly, who was in her room when the intruder entered. She added that no statements had been taken by security from her or the girls in her section who had seen the man. 
Witnesses described the man as between 20 and 25 years old, shabbily dressed and extremely dirty with an unpleasant odor. "My roommate couldn't see him be­cause she didn't have her contacts in," remarked Farley resident Nan­cy Cox," but she could smell him." He also carried a large screwdriver. 
Several witnesses also reported that the intruder appeared to be under the influence of drugs. Farley rectress Sr. Jean Lenz 
commented that "he really seems 
to be sick." 
According to Lenz, the episode began when the man suddenly entered the room ofsome freshmen on the first floor of the hall and 
began talking to them. He left the room after a few minutes. but the students were uncertain how to react and failed to notify Sl.."CClrity immediately. It was not until the man visited rooms on the hall's second floor that security was alerted. 
The intruder reportedly inquired on tht> second floor whether he was in a women's dorm, and knocked on several doors. He then entered one open room while its occupant was on the telephone, and announ­ced that he wanted to search under the bed for "pieces of a woman's body.'' He later made a similar remark, saying that he was from maintenance and that pieces of a woman's body had been stuffed down the toilet." 

He then proceeded to the third floor and entered the room of Kathleen Kelly and Marge Meag­her, where he stated he was from security and expressed concern for their safety. "Our door was open and he just walked in and stood there," said Meagher. She repor­ted that the intruder, while holding the screwdriver, told her and Kelly 
[continued on page 6] 




f 
~ 
_-I 
· 
, 
~-~-------­
the observer Thursday, April 14, 1977 

,___Qn Campus Today------. 
4 pm colloquium, "a model behavior management pro­gram in the work setting," by d. chris anderson, sponsored by department of psychology, room 119, haggar hall. 
4:15pm film, "lake renewal techniques," by the university of wisconsin inland lakes demonstration project, audio-visual center theater, cce. 
4:30pm 
lecture, "perspectives on aging: psychological, clinical and social," by dr. paul pruyser, henry march pfeiffer professor, meninger foundation, topeka, sponsored by mental health outreach for the elderly and applied progress in gerontological education research and services, room 117, haggar hall. 
7, 9 & 
film, "psycho," sponsored by circle k, engineering11 pm aud., admission $1, also april IS. 
7 pm meeting, bicycle club, Iafortune basement. 
symposium/panel, "bakke and reverse discrimina­
7pm 
tion: the threatened future of minority admissions," sponsored by black american Jaw students associa­tion/la raza students association/national lawyers guild, law school lounge. 
7:30pm lecture, "kitchen humor in gothic art," by rev. richard conyers, notre dame art gallery. 
play, live production of "play it again, sam," by 
woody allen, admission $1, nazz. 
8 pm lecture, "is there really a literacy crisis today?" by8 pm dr. roger shuy, director, sociolinguistics program, georgetown university, sponosred by committee on linguistics, library aud. 
8pm voice recital, by valerie manzie, smc little theater. 
8 & 10 pm film, "Murder by death," sponsored by alumni office and junior class, smc carroll hall, admission $1. 
Hesburgh ranked as leader education, religion 

Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., university president, was again named among the nation's "most influential" leaders in both education and religion, according to U. S.News,and World Report's annual survey. 
Hesburgh was ranked first in education and third in religion. 
In education, he was followed by Joseph A. Califano, Jr., secretary of Health, Education and Welfare; Kingman Brewster, president of Yale University and ambassador­designate to England; Ernest L. Boyer, U.S. Commissioner of Edu­cation, and Roger W. Heyns, president of the American Council on Education. 
In religion, he followed Evange­list Billy Grahm and Archbishop Joseph L. Bernardin, president of the National Conference of Catholic Bishops, and ranked ahead of William P. Thompson, president of 
' 
*The Observer 
Night Editor: Joe "Stud" 
Bauer Joe's Girls: Leigh Tunakan, Rosemary Mills 
late Guest: Bill Reifsteck Editorial layout: Pat Hanifin Sports layout: Paul Stevenson Typists: Gwen Coleman, Kathy Egbert, Mel Celeste, Rusty Espinosa 
E.M. T .: Morey Blinder Day Editor: Marion Ulicny Copy Reader: Joan Fremeau Ad layout: Mike Miller · Photographer: Barbara Dodge 
\. 
I hP Ob'iPrwr IS pubil~hed Monday through f nday and weekly dunng the summer sess1on. except durmg the exam and vacat1on penods The Ob>erver 1s publ1shed by students of the Umvers1tv of Notre Dame and St Mary's College Subscnpt1ons may be purchased for $20 per year I ($10 per semester) from The Obser­ver. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, lnd1ana 46556 
The Observer is a member of the I Associated PrPss All repfCJduct1on nghb are re>erved , -JU.,...i .;:· 
the National Council of Churches, and Presi.dent Jimmy Carter, a Baptist layman. 
Last year, Father Hesburgh was the only person named in two fields, but this year so are Califano (education and health) and Sen. Edward M. Kennedy (D., Mass.), who was named among the most influential in the Senate and, as chairman of its subcommittee on health, in the field of health, also. 
A Notre Dame alumnus· and trustee, Paul Foley, chairman of Interpublic Gorup of Companies, was ranked fifth in the area of advertising in the survey. 
SMC reporters meet tonight 
A meeting for all St. Mary's reporters will be held tonight at 7in the Regina basement office. 
Anyone who cannot attend should call Jean Powley at 5165. 


Tonite and Friday The Notre Dame Student Players and Social Commission present 

Play It Again, Sam 
April 14th, 15th, 22nd, 23rd 8:00pm in the Nazz 
Admission $1.00 
----~-----~-----~-­


Fund usage, student handbook dealt with by SMC Assembly 
by Anne Bachle 

The St. Mary's Student Assem­
bly met and passed proposals last 
night at its final meeting of the 
year. 
The assembly first approved the allocation of funds for activities for off-campus and day students, with the stipulation that if the monies were not all used this year they could be carried over to next year. Until this time these students did not benefit from the activities funds, although they contributed to them. 
Revision and updating of the 
student government handbook to 
reflect changes made in Student 
government organization was also 
Bicycle club to hold meeting 
The Notre Dame Cycle Touring Club will hold their first meeting of the semester tonight at 7:00 pm in the basement of LaFortune. This meeting is open to all persons interested in bicycling for pleasure or racing. 
The club sponsors weekly rides leaving every Saturday from the library circle at 9:00 am. These rides, usually conducted in conjun­ction with the Midwest Bicycle Association, are through scenic backroads of the Michiana region. Ride distances are determined individually since there are always two or three alternative routes from which to choose. Distances vary from a minimum of 10 to 25, 35, 
and even 60 mile loops. 
The club also conducts how-to sessions on bicycle care and main­tenance, proper riding ha~its, where to ride, and other topics of interest. These sessions are con­ducted at regularly scheduled monthly meetings. 
In the planning stages are a short race around the campus, a summer: 
tour over part of the "Bikecenten· nial Trail" and a fall tour over October break. The club is also in the process of negotiating for cycling discounts at local bike shops. For more information contact Russ at 288-5192 or Paul at 8933 . 
.••••,.~ 
• ~~ .~~ ($' c..:. 

• Q;+ 

Lobby St. Joseph Bank Building South Bend, Indiana Telephone: 287-1427 
~Q; ::§' "~J. 
"'01f ·~~ 1$-r.a 0 • 
: 
~1f .::; 0 ~~ 

• ~ ~~CJQ;f~ i$-0)~. 
• Q;~ ~ ~....(.; ~~ • .• ~r.a ~
a • 

.,~~ ~~· ~"' ......------~--------,
~":J "' • 

Graduate Student Government Officer Elections 
If you are interested in running for either 
president or vice-president of the 
Graduate Student Government, 
please submit your vita to Mary Conklin 
(co mailbox -Foreign Language Department, 304 O'Shag.) 
by April 22, 1977. Include on vita: 
1) name & department 
2>qualifications & experience 
3) reasons for desiring office 
*stipend granted for services. 
approved. The Assembly also gave $40 to 
Former Student : Body President the World Hunger Coalition to Mary Lu Bilek proposed to reduce cover the cost of World Hunger the Student Affairs Committee Day, to be observed next Wednes­from eighteen members to twelve day .. Money was also allotted to the members to improve the efficiency Neighborhood Study Help Prog­
of the group. The proposal passed ram, and to the Education Dept. for and now goes to the Student Affairs their ·summer program in New Committee for approval. Mexico. 
~(t) )Jit\~·. _HELD OVER
:"""!""""'""' 'BRING ME CHURCHILL
o ph Hitler In three days they almost won theWar. 
MICHAEL CAINE ·DONALD SUTHERLAND ROBERT DUVALL "}? ~ 
STARTS FRIDAY LIMITED ENGAGEMENT! 

Weekdays

))j~ti~ 
7:15-9:15 Sat-Sun
TWENTil:.TH CENTIJRYFOX PRESENTS 
2:00-4:00

TERENCE HILL· VALERIE PERRINE 6:00-8:00 
10:00 

. and JACKIE GLEASON •• cutle< 
Insurance appraisals and purchases of fine diamonds and estate jewelry provided. 
*Graduate Gemologist: Gemological Institute of America *Fellow Gemmologist: Gemmological Association of. Great Britain *BA: Indiana University 
John M. Marshall's 


COiamond 9mpo!tt Contpan~ 
Your Source for the Unusual 

•........,~···­~ 

\;; ·•••''1.----'.r..-._~,....,......'"t...,., . ..,..... _,..,.;_,._,. ... .._..,._....t~'"-..~"'J.,;~i:...... "'t .. 'L.'"&.."''..."'I'."t."'-~--.:·•t..-t. l.....-t."\..."&1'\.,..."-""U".,.....i\."'""'"'"M>a.-.,...,_""\..~• -...,~., ._ ..... -,..·.,· .•-.. -._--.: '!&~ ... to..,..,.,. . ,.. -.., •: 


Thursday, April14, 1977 the observer 
'Lacks direction' 

SLC members defend viability of group 
AN TOST AL IRISH WAKE COMMI'ITEE presents: 
by Barb Langhenry Copy Editor 

In rema::ks assessing the past year, some of the present Student Life Council (SLC) members des­cribed the council as lacking direc­tion but indicated it remains a viable organization despite its diffi­culties. 
The SLC was organized in 1968 by the Board of Trustees as a body composed of an equal number of students, faculty and administra­tive representatives authorized to consider matters under the res­ponsibility of the vice-president for Student Affairs. In a report con­cerning the future of the SLC written in 1975 it is described as both a legislative council and a consultative body. 
This year's SLC has concentrated its discussion around the issues of social space, human sexuality and its indentity. Michael Casey, chair­man and former student body vice-president, stated in a letter to • the members that the SLC, after changing its focus to an issue­oriented structure in January, "Did some research and made some recommendations" with the help of outside resource people in the areas of social space and human sexuality. 
Although members saw valuable discussion coming from the council this year, some of them commonly noted confusion as to the body's role and the organization of the meetings as two problems which hinderdl the progress of the Coun­cil. 
SLC identity unclear 
Some members view the SLC as 

hampered at the beginning of the 
year by prolonged discussion of 
identity. Bro. Just Paczesny, vice­
president for Student Affairs, 
stated that people were elected 
who did not know the background 
and there was the problem of 
explaining the SLC to new mem­
bers. 
Some of the members view the 

council as a legislative body, while 
others see it as an advisory body. 
All of those interviewed agreed 
however that it is a group neces-
Free University needs teachers 

Any member of the faculty, staff or student body who wishes to teach a course for the Free Univer­sity next semester must turn in their course description by Friday, April 15 in the Student Union Office. The Free University is presently looking for teachers in virtually all areas to teach. Any hobby, skill or area if interest is acceptable. If anyone has any questions, they should call Free University at 283-7757 or call Dan Me Cormick at 283-1161. 
Teach~& 
Free University Course!!! 
we·are looking for anyone interested in teaching about their favorite interest · hobby, etc., for the 
Fall Semester 1977. 

Virtually any topic accepta 
Deadline: April15 TOMORROW!!!!!!!!! 
Call 283-7747 today!!!. \ 
~ 

sarily composed of faculty, admini­strators and students which gives these three groups a chance to share views on problems related to student life. 
Paczesny sees the group as one involved not only with the student's social life, but also their "physical and intellectual development, as well as spiritual." 
The SLC is a place that can be of assistance to making life on cam­pus more pleasant--as pleasant as it can be made under the circum­stances because the University is a large operation, Paczesny asserted. He sees the SLC as solving the problems of day-to-day living on the campus. 
Engineering Professor William Biles, vice-chairman of the faculty senate, views the council as similar to Paczesny's description. He noted the SLC as providing the advice and guidance to the Office of Student Affairs. 
Sally Duffy, rectress of Lewis Hall, sees the group as a legislative body which "did not function in that way this year." She attributed this to a lack of structure at meetings and a failure to deal with concrete issues. 
Sr. Jane Pitz of Campus Ministry 

on the other hand said, "I don't see 
need for it as a legislative body.'' 
She also added she does not see 
"SLC as an initiator of rule change 
unless it is brought to their 
knowledge by a group of students 
or another group." She did note a 
problem with identity but stated 
that each member feels differently 
about it. 
Casey also did not see the SLC as 

having a legislative function be­
cause "the body is too large." He 
noted that their purpose this year 
was to ''bring to the surface things 
that are wrong with the Univer­
sity." He also stated, "We aren't 
the body to lay definite plans in the 
areas we dealt with this year." 
Casey admitted, "Our purpose 

has never really been defined. We 
tried to do it at the beginning of 
this year but got hung up." He 
noted the council was a "recom­
mendatory" group. 
Peter Haley, south quad repre­

sentative, sees the council's pur­
pose as to look at definite student 
needs on campus on the theoretical 
and practical levels, working 
through students, faculty and 
administrators. He views the body 
as having alegislativefunction. He 
described the SLC as "more of a 
group specifically powered to 
approve rules and regulations.'' 
"Necessary policies as they arise 

should be dealt with by the SLC," 
he noted. He added that they are 
not "precisely fulfilling this pur­
pose." 
Haley stated that this may 

possibly be due to the success of 
last year's council in solving isses 
such as the revision of the Huddle 
and Crossrads Park and thus 
clearing the agenda for this year's 
council. 
Meeting organization 

Members of the council also noted meeting organization as a problem this year. Paczesny noted that "perhaps the organization part is lacking efficiently and follow­through on proposals." 
Both Duffy and Biles noted the meetings were more discussion­type meetings and this took away from the business aspect of the council. Biles noted, however, the discussions were valuable and "will eventually bear fruit." 
The move to the discussion-type meeting was made in January and Casey said it was done because "we hadn't done anything first semester and thought by changing the format to more topic-oriented meetings we would be more effec­
. ..
tive. 
Most of the members inter­viewed suggested definite agendas be set for the meetings. Both Biles and Haley suggest following Rob· ert's Rules of Order. Paczesny suggest having definite dates for meetings and definite agendas or setting of goals. Other members noted meetings should be held once a month and Biles suggested 
organizing into specific standing committees. 
Other problems cited included the lack of major issues to deal with a lack of continuity, both in carry-over from year to year for people and issues and the position of the chairman. The ideas of a student chairman having a dual role was noted as also hindering to the council. 
All of the interviewed members see the SLC as a viable organi­zation and cited no need for a change in its structure. Instead they noted the need for a change in the organization of its approach. 
Proposal for activites review Paczesny called attention to a proposal he and Prof. Michael 
Crowe of the General Program drafted that was described by Paczesny as "one of the great things presented, but never voted upon." 
This proposal calls for contin­ually reviewing and reporting on student-related activities, each activity coming up for review every five years for one semester. 
Biles stated, "This proposal could be a definitive way SLC could provide advice and guidance for student activities." 
Haley sees it as a device which would add more stability to the group. He added, "It not only improves services, but raises prob­lems with services to which the SLC could address itself." 
Haley remarked that the prob­lems and discussions this year have 

~ 
~\ 


ASK CHARLIE 
An antibiotic class, the tetracyclines 
(e.g. achromycin, sumycin, tetracyn, robitet, panmycin) should not be taken with milk or milk products, because absorption is impaired by milk protein. When taking this drug you should avoid milk, cottage cheese, ice cream, vel­veeta, etc. Also avoid antacids contain­
salts or preparations 
MAR-MAIN PHARMACY 
CHARLES SPIHER, PHARMACIST 426N.Michig_an ~... y.'­


South Bend, lniliana ~-i 
. 234-3184 ~ 
. . .. . 

given the group as a whole some­thing which will make them more efficient in the following years. 
He and other members noted each group must determine the direction they will take, but impor­tant for future groups is an early established identity, structured meetings and willingness · to do research work into what causes student problems. 
r----,--~---..I
NEEDWW-COST

I I
TRANSPORT~TION? 

I 
We can help. Contact: 
I

I Auto Driveaway Co. 674-9786 
1

I Deposit Required ' Returned at Destination I
._I _______..1
··-Must be 21.-­

WICKED WEDNESDAY 



HAPPY HOUR 
APRIL 20 $3.00 Ticket & coupon book ($9.00 value) fucludes: 
2-5pm -FAT WALLY'S ·all the Free Beer 
you can drink & 1 2 priee mixed drinks 
PLUS COUPONS GOOD 2 for 1 mixed drinks TWICE April 20-23 $1 off pitcher of Beer 
SPECIAL DRAWING-·WIN A '77 CORVETIE FOR A DAY 
2 for 1 beer


6-9pm -CORBY'S 
& mixed drinks 


6-9pm -BRIDGET McGUIRES 2 for I Beer 
PLUS COUPON GOOD one free beer and mixed drinks 
April 20 6-9 p.m. 

Plus BARNABY'S pizza discount coupons Plus FREE ffiiSH WAKE TICKET 
Free Campus Tour ( by helicopter.)

Plus 
for every 20th ticke• 

TICKETS LIMITED!! 
DINING HALLS-Student Union Ticket Office 

ON SALE NOW!!! 
I SALES END FRIDAY!! SMC Cafeteria -LeMans LDbby 
*The Observer 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's 
The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters are the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and letters are encouraged to promote the free expression of varying 
opinions on campus.  
Business Manager Advertising Manager Production Manager  Sue Quigley Steve Bonomo Karen Chiames  BoxQ Notre Dame Ind. 46556  

EDITORIAL BOARD 
Marti Hogan Editor-in-Chief Martha Fanning Managing Editor Bob Brink Asst. Managing Ed. Kathy Mills Executive Editor Maureen Flynn Editorial Editor Barb Breitenstein Exec. News Editor Tom Byrne Campus Editor jean Powley St. Mary's Editor Katie Kerwin News Editor Paul Stevenson Sports Editor Pat Cole Special Projects Ed. David O'Keefe Features Editor 
Copy Editor Barb Langhenry 
Photo Editor Paul Clevenger 
Thursday, April 14, 1977 

Save SLC from SBP 
Today Student Body President Dave 
Bender presents his proposal to replace 
the Student life Council with a new 
Campus life Council to the student affairs 
subcommittee of the Board of Trustees. 
Bender's proposal is outlined in his column 
on this page. It is obvious both that the 
Sl.C has been ineffective this year and that 
the many problems of hall life deserve 
much more consideration than they have 
yet received. Rather than replace the one 
with the other, however, the Cl.C should 
be adapted as a subcommittee of a 
stronger, more organized Sl.C. 
The failure of the Sl.C this year is due to 
a lack of direction and confusion over its purpose, rather than to any inherent structural defect. Members of the Council are uncertain whether the Sl.C is a legislative body, an advisory council or a simple forum for discussion. Many complain that the meetings are disorgan­ized, that there is no set agenda and little continuity from meeting to meeting. Many issues are considered, but the discussion rarely results in any form of 
proposal. 
Despite these problems the SLC has the potential with its present composition to deal with vital issues. It was the SLC that made the first parietals proposal to be accepted by the Trustees. Last year the SLC provided a forum for much-needed discussion of the calendar issue--an issue affecting student life that was also of mapr concern to faculty an~ administrators. 
Under Bender's proposal, issues such as the calendar, cuniculum changes, and 8 
a.m. examination policy would be left solely to the closed-door proceedings of the Academic Council. Presently, the mapr vi-rtue of the SI.C is that it generates pubHc discussion of important questions. 
By drastically reducting faculty repre­sentation on his CI.C to one token member, Bender is effectively quashing an important voice on campus and student life. In addition to acting as a kind of neutral "buffer" between students anC.. administration, faculty members possess background and expertise that is valuable to the deliberations of the council. There are also a number of major questions that require the input of faculty represen­tatives, such as the calendar and the. upcoming debate over the mandatory senior values seminar policy. 
o pinion !!l!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!l 

'Reverse Discrimination' 
irma herrera &ted maIoney 
Issues of this magnitude should not be 
abandoned by the abolition of the SLC and 
the substitution of a body too limited in 
scope to deal effectively with them. 
Another principal difficulty with the proposal is that it abruptly dismisses one fifth of the student body--the off-campus students. Bender has said that their concerns are more properly handled by the off-campus commission, and it is true that the SLC has rarely considered subjects other than those related to on-campus life. But many of these issues are of interest to all students. The parietals question, for example, affects any student who visits a dormitory occupied by members of the opposite sex. Just as importantly, off­campus students may have valuable insights into the undesirable aspects of hall life and suggestions for improve­ments. 
Bender is right in pushing for a body that will focus its attention specifically on the many issues of campus (hall) life: parietals, the alcohol policy, judiciaJ boards, social space. Many of these issues have been untouched or superficially treated by the SLC this year. 
Bender also is right in trying to bring the rectors mto formal discussions on hall life. 
The best solution to the dilemma is to give the CI.C a trial run as a subcommittee of the Student life Council. The SLC has a standing committee on campus life, cur­rently composed of five Council members. SLC committees in the past have included a number of non-Council members such as the social space committee that followed up on the Committee on Undergraduate life recommendations. We suggest that Bender's proposed CLC, be adapted as the Campus life Committee of the SLC. The CLC would develop concrete proposals and present them to the SLC as a whole for discussion and approval. 
A necessary part of this proposal is the strengthening of the Student life Council. With better leadership and more organized procedures, the SLC and its membership have the potential to be an effective legislative and advisory body. We have nothing to lose by keeping the SLC and developing the CLC as a part of it. We have a great deal to lose by equating Student life with Hall life and abandoning other important aspects to less represen­tative and publicly accountable bodies. 
in the latter part of thts year, the. .Allan Paul Halle -white, 36 years 
U.S. Supreme Court will decide whether or not a medical school admissions program that gives preference, for a limited number of its admissions slots, to racial minority applicants is unconstitu­tional. If it is held to be unconstitutional, it may very well spell the end to affirmative actie>n programs throughout the country. 
The case is Bakke v. Regents of the University of California. It arises from a suit filed in 1973 by old, and a space program engineer -who was twice refused admission to the medical school at the University of California-Davis. He challenged the medical schools "special admissions" program, al­leging that it discriminated against him on the basis of his race since "less qualified" minority appli­;:ants were admitted while he was excluded. The trial court found in his favor, and last September the California Supreme Court affirmed, prompting the present appeal to the nation's high court. 
Afftrmative action and Hi• :.>rity admissions programs have come under increasing attack of late, primarily on the basis that they constitute "reverse discrimina· tion," against the majority, i.e., whites. The last time the court was 
confronted  with  this  question  of  
reverse  discrimination  was  in  
DeFunis v. Odegaard in 1974.  It  

declined to render a decision, and 
o p1• n 1• on!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 


Bender's Side 

iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiidave bender 
In yesterday's Observer, I ex­areas as social life, disciplinary plained the rationale behind chang­procedure and academic life. The ing the Student Life Council to a Hall Vice-President is in regular body that is more concerned about contact with people who represent dormitory life. I will now explain these areas through the H~ II Coun­: the reasons behind our choice of · cil meetings every week, and thus 1representation on the new Campus ' possesses the knowledge and per­Life Council (CLC). spective necessary to fully present The newly-created CLC will con-the student viewpoint. In addition, 
, sist of Rectors, Hall Vice-Presi­the Hall Vice-President is not as dents, Student Government Repre­burdened as the Hall President by sentatives and Ex-Officio member baH activities. On the Campus Life of the Administration: Council, he is free to promote the -six Rectors (three from each quad) well-being of campus life by uti­-four hall Vice-Presidents lizing his student perspective of -one Representative from Student hall life. government (the Student Body Why Student Govemment President), the Student Union, and Representation? the Hall President's Council. 
The success of any organization-three Ex-Officio memter of the ultimately depends upon the direc­Administration, including the Vice­tion of the group and the officesPresident of Student Affairs, one which provide this direction. Therepresentative from the Faculty Student Body President will pro­Senate, and the Dean of Students, vide this overall leadership, whileall· of whom would attend every the Student Union Representativethree meetings. 

will be responsible for the campus Why Rectors? social viewpoint in terms of hall 

Placine Rectors on the Campus participation. The Hall President's Life Council is both a logical and a Council representative will further necessary choice. As people who modify these views by conveying work and live among students, the consensus opinion of all the their opinions are invaluable con­Hall Presidents. cerning the wants and needs of 
Why Ex-Officio Members of thethese students. In addition, the Administration?

Rectors would have the opportunity In order for any body on campusto exchange insights pertaining to to possess legislative power, keythe proper and most effective members of the Administraion 
management of the halls. 
must be a part of its structure. The Hall Social Life: some halls are reason we deem such members 

far more active than others and ex-officio reflects our desire to 
suggestions for improvement 
present concrete proposals to thewould be forthcoming. 

Administration. The opportunityAlcohol poUcy and its enforce­for dialogue inherent in the work­ment: a more equitable policy could ings of the Campus Life Council be established. Things like parei­will result in legislative proposals, tals and and with this result, the CLC can Disciplinary procedure: in some · then meet with the designatedhalls, breaking pareitals means ex-officio members and discuss the 

getting kicked off campus; in feasibility of these proposals.
others, a much fairer approach is Because of the hall-oriented mem­
taken. In all of these areas, rectors bership, discussion will now consi­play a key role. With their der tangible proposals instead of cooperation (and many rectors have abstract ideas. 
expressed their desire to work on With these people, who live and this council and exchange ideas for work among students and who improvements), these areas will be participate in key facets of student given the attention they deserve. 
life -namely, the dormitories ­Why Hall Vice-Presidents? 

effective and productive improve­Some of the many diversified 
ments in student life can and will aspects of hall life include such 
occur. 

in so doing put off the inevitable. stream of middle American culture. Now the court must decide the Secondly, and perhaps more issue. The basic question it must importantly, such bitterness re­answer is this: Are programs that fleets a misconception of the role of give special preference to minority education in our society. We do not applicants, in an effort to redress live in a vacuum, but instead we past discrimination against them, live in a multi-racial, multi-ethnic unconstitutional if they operate to society. Whether one is a doctor, exclude white applicants? How the lawyer or an accountant, the clients Court answers this question will one must serve will come from all affect everyone -not just minori-walks of life. One must learn to ties. And its impact will be felt serve the poor, the rich, blacks and everywhere-not just at U.C. Davis whites, the Spanish-speaking, the Medical School. Despite many Vietnamese immigrant. recent arguments to the contrary, The point is that the University the courts decision will have a has an obligation to provide educa­definite impact on everyone in the tiona! diversity from within our own Notre Dame community. . society in order to insure the 
Another argument suggests that availability of services and skills to Notre Dame's admissions decision the various groups in society. are not subject to the "infirmity" Many object to this, saying that of the quota system used at minorities have had the last ten UC-Davis, since Notre Dame uses a years to even the odds, and that unique, individualized admi~sions now no preference should be given process. While this is a comforta-on the basis of race or culture. hie notion to hold on to, it seriously Such statements not only make a misperceives the potential harmful strange, cruel mockery of the consequences of a Supreme Court hard-fought civil rights victories of decision. Even if the court limits the sixties, but they fly in the face its decision to the facts in Bakke, of historical fact as well. Hundreds simply by deciding that a while of years of discrimination against man was unconstitutionally dis-, blacks, Chicanos, Indians . and criminated against because of race ; others is not going to be overcome will be reason enough for many in a decade. institutions to scrap programs pre-On Thursday, Aprill4, 1977, at 7 sently operated with great reluc-p.m. in the Law School Lounge, tance anyway. representatives from the University 
The issues involved are very administration and faculty, as well emotional ones. A white student as those outside the academic who works hard to try to get into setting, will discuss these issues in medical school and then is denied a symposium entitled "Bakke and admission is understandably bitter Reverse Discrimination: The. when he or she sees minority Threatened Future of Minority students with lower MCAT's and Admissions." Come, listen, paTti­GPA's being admitted. But this· cipate -and then take a stand, bitterness springs from ignorance because it does affect you. and not from reason. For one Whether you are a white man or thing, there is substantial evidence woman, a minority student, a that these criteria do not adequate-foreign student, or a pre-profess­ly ~t'asure the ability of minority ional l>turlent 
-no matter who or students, who have grown up what you ?.re, the Supreme Court's ~cnerally removed from the main· decision in IJJakke will affect you. 

--------~---~~------­
---
-----------~--~---~~·· --------~---------------­


Rain greeted the 2nd day of the Bookstore Basketball 
Tournament, but of course, play continued. (photo by Barbara 

Food Day includes tea and rice dinner 
day night fast will be cancelled soby Jim Kotorac that weekly fasters may participate in the Food Day event.
Tonight the Hunger Coalition A film dealing with the maldistri­will distribute questionaires at bution of food and other resourcesNotre Dame and St. Mary's dining throughout the world will be shownhalls concerning a tea and rice following the meal.
dinner to be held on Food Day next To close the Food Day celebra­Wednesday. 
tion, mass will be held at 10 p.m. in The simple meal stresses our Sacred Heart Church. 
abundance of food and makes us On Campus, Food Day concludes aware of the simplicity which the food and justice series spon­
others experience, said Jack. 
sored by the Hunger Coalition,D' Aurora, director of the dining D'Aurora noted. The series in­halls for the Hunger Coalition. 
cluded a presentation Friday on theStudents are asked to fill out the multinational investment in thequestionaires and leave them in Dominican Republic a food andboxes provided at the dining halls. 
justice workshop on Sunday, and aAdditional questionnaires can be film Tuesday night Five Minutes toobtained by calliang Bob Froehlke Midnight, which concerns povertyat 1460. 
and oppression throughout theD'Aurora outlined the Food Day world.
schedule: The Food Day celebra­
tion "";11 begin at lunch on Wednes­day in front of the dining halls. Representatives from the Rainbow 
MARIO'S Food Co-op Cornucopia Restaurant 
As the weather warms
and various health food stores will 
up Mario invites
distrubute literature concerning personal nutrition. Hunger Coali­ND-SMC to his special tion members will distribute infor­pitcher nites. Mon-Fri mation about Bread few die World, with mllege lei. Only a Christian lobby movement fight­
$1.50.

ing for world hunger. The tea and rice dinner will be 1 mi. north of Shula's held at 5 p.m. on both campuses. 
Serving the Best Participants at Notre Dame will eat Pizza & Sandwiches In the Area
at the North Dining Hall. At St. Mary's the meal will be served at~==~==================:;:====~
the clubhouse. The usual Wednes-
RA situation 
uncertain 
[continued from page 1] 
accepted as RA's, then told they could qualify regardless. 
Chuck. Colbert, who applied for an RA job in Morrissey, said he was uncertain whether his_ ap­plication would be confirmed by Student Affairs after Holtz had accepted it. He said he was unsure of his position since he knew he would not· qualify as financially needy. 
"No one said anything for cer­tain/' Colbert said. "It just came 
about by rumor, which is the way things seem to work. here." Colbert, agreeing with the rec­
tors, added, "The qualifications of a student should be the main criteria for a job. I don't think parents want to send their children 
to a school where the RA's are selected, not by merit, but by
financial need." 
..,________________.__________,.li ·-••• ••••••••••••--•••••••••---~---' 
Thursday, April14, 1977 the observer 5 
--------------~~~~~~~~------=­

Economics professor claims 

Gov't regulations hurt business 
by Mark Perry 
Government agencies and their regulations are having a severe effect on business, according to Dr. Murray L. Weidenbaum. 
Weidenbaum, director of the 
Center for the study of American 
Business and professor of econom­
ics at Washington University in St. 
Louis, spoke about the problems 
associated with the changing rela­
tionship between business and 
government in the United States at 
a lecture at the Library Auditorium 
last night. 

"In the United States there has 
been greater government participa­
tion in business decision-making in 
recent years," Weidenbaum said. 
"No business official today can 
operate without considering a mul­
titude of governmental restrictions 
and regulations," he continued, 
"and these types of management 
decisions subject to government 
control are fundamental to the 
business system.'' 
Weidenbaum added that "virtu· 
ally every major department of a 
typical corporation has one or more 
counterparts in a federal agency 
which controls or influences its 
internal decision-making." 
Weidenbaum then cited several 
examples of how these federal 
agencies and their regulations ad­
versely affect the businesses in the 
United States. 
In St. Louis, Weidenbaum said, 
the Consumer Products Safety 
Commission recalled a windshield 
cleaner fluid manufactured by Ace 
Hardware because it did not have a 
label indicating that the fluid could 
not be made . non-poisonous. 
Instead of merely asking the manu­
facturer to place this label on their 
CAP information distributed today 
C.A.P. 
students are request«!d to pick up material for C.A.P. regis­tration procedures at the C.A.P. office (338 O'Shaughnessy) today and tomorrow. The office will be open between 9 a.m. and noon and between 2:45 and 4:30 p.m. 

Early reservation in courses for 

C.A.P. 
students will take place next Monday through Wednesday, so it is imperative that students · have this information by this weekend. 



OPEN THURSDA y
I I 

April 14, 1977 11 :00 AM 233 -0438 
containers, the Commission order­ed Ace Hardware to pour the solvent down the drain. 
W eidenbaum said that this is the way the bureaucrat thinks; he is only concerned about his safety in his job. In this case, the label might fall off, so the bureaucrat uses the more expensive way to ensure that nothing will go wrong. 
In an attempt to relieve the present energy crisiS, Weiden­baum said that the government tried to find out why synthetic fuels were not being made. They found that with all the regulations gover­ning the manufacturing of these fuels, the corporations could not afford to make them. 
Studies also showed that the minimum wage law was having a 
severe effect ori teenage unemploy­ment, Weidenbaum said. These laws made it necessary for the companies to hire the experienced adult workers rather than the 1 unexperienced teenagers. · . 
The Equal Opportunity Employ­ment Program also affects the jobless rate, he noted. Companies take longer to place people in available jobs because they have to be sure they meet government regulations. 
A severe example ofthe effect of government regulations was the case where a clerical error forced a company out of business. Weiden­baum continued. Marlin Toy Company, which manufactures rat­tles for infants, was told by the Food and Drug Administration that its rattles were dangerous because of rattle, Weidenbaum said. The FDA said that the infant might break the rattle and then swallow the pellet, so the product was banned from the market. Marlin corrected this problem by removing the pellets from the rattles. 
But in the beginning of the fall, the FDA released its banned products Jist to various stores, and the Marlin rattles were still inclu­ded on the list. The FDA refused to correct the error in time for the Christmas season. The Marlin Toy Company was forced to lay off three-fourths of its workers and eventually went out of business. 
Weidenbaum will conclude his lecture on Friday, beginning at 
3:30 pm at Hayes-Healy Auditori­um. 
Special Wed.&Thurs. Tostada Dinner$1.60 


dJi·~ 

11~' c?__ 
~...rro lurs... 
\~ REST~AN,ffij,' 
';/~~ _) ~.t 
~~~~ 
·~­
11 a.m. to 11 p.m. 233-0385 526 Western Ave., South Bend 

Due to the Senior Formal the Senior Bar will be closed Friday and Saturday. -no Friday Happy Hour ­
see you next Wednesday. 

All people interested in serving on next year's Junior Advisory Council should submit their names to their hall president by Wednesday, April 20th. Questions? Call Andy McKef'!na 7181 
••·---••••••••----·-·••••••••••••-, 
St. Mary's · I 
I
STUDENT ASSEMBLY I 
I

I 
I positions still open I I 
I I I I I 

Platform deadline extended to midnight , Thursday, April 14th 
Platforms should be submitted 
I1 

•o Rm I' •  506 L Me BnS  I II  
I  
QUESTIONS??  Call Mary 41'08  .  1I  
1  


------------------------~--~....__....____, 
Pick...;up Senior Formal Tickets 



r ~ Tavern noise, trash discussed 
hi La Fortune Basement

I (continued from page 1] all parties," he continued. "If feels the bars are responsible for
I I I I 

--~--~~--------~--­
6 the observer Thursday, April14, 1977 
------:...=:-=-..:=--=..:......---­
said that the newly-appointed off­campus commissioner, Joe Un­gashick will be responsible for relations between the community and students, in addition to the traditional duties fo co-ordinating on-campus and off-campus rela­tions. 
Bender said Ungashick will meet frequently with tavern owners and the northeast Neighborhood Coun­cil to see what activities the student body will engage in. He added that he feels the problem is one of attitud and that he will try to make students more aware of the prob­lem. 
The meeting resulted in· the formation of a coalition to serve as a task force to continue working on the problem. According to Franklin Morse. chairman of the Board of Public Safety, who suggested the coalition. lack of communication between the different parties con­cerned is one of the main problems in this issue. 
Bender indicated that the Notre Dame student body would support such a proposal, in the interests of open communication. Ungashick will represent Notre Dame students on the coalition forum. John Roos, a member of the Northeast Neigh­borhood Council and a government professor at Notre Dame, will act as a spokesman for area residents and Rich Kanser, owner of the Library will represent the tavern owners. Eugene Dziubinski, a Board of Public Safety member, will also be a part of the forum. 
The forum is to act as a task force in order to see that the ideas brought out as the meeting are pursued and that the lines of communication remain open. "This reoccurence of meetings every four months is not solving anything," Kanser said, referring to a series of discussions in the past, which have not brought a solution to the problem. 
"I would like to see a mechanism ~me out of this meeting that would 
a.~ake students and other tavern patrons aware of the problem and that we're trying to solve it," Dziubinski explained. "We want to make communication available to 

Farley intruder released 
I 
r 
r 
(continued from page 1] 
that "some people can't handle their drugs ... women have been cut to pieces." According to Kelly, he then said, "you look like the type who chould handle yourself, but I thought I'd check you out." 
The man then began to remove pieces of paper from his pocket which he said were stained with "women's blood." None of the witnesses observed blood on the scraps of paper or anywhere on the person of the intruder, to indicate that he had participated in any kind of violence. Meagher said the 

papers did appear to be the property of security. 
The man also entered the third floor room of Nancy Cox where he again attempted to remove the scraps of paper from his pockets. While in the room, a small knife fell to the floor, according to Cox. 
A male Notre Dame student visiting Farley noticed the intruder and came to the aid of the residents, asking the man for some · identification. He refused and be-' came angry, swearing repeatedly and declaring that he "could learn in a week what you learn in five
I 
years.'' Security arrived shortly · 
I 
k 
f SMC workshop on majors tonight 
The Saint Mary's College Career Development Center (CDC) is sponsoring a workshop for infor­mation on how to choose a major tonight at 8 p.m. in the Regina Hall auditorium. The purpose of this program is to acquaint stu­dents, primarily underclassmen, with the decision making process involved in choosing a major course of study. 

toughening up some sort is neces­
sary, at least everyone should be 
notified beforehand.'' 
Bauer told those at the meeting that she had been informed by agents of the Indiana Alcoholic Beverage Commission (ABC) that there is a law which prohibits patrons from taking open contain­ers of alcoholic beverages out of bars. Plastic cups carried out of the bars constitutes a large part of the trash that litters lawns and side­walks on weekend mornings. There had previously been some confu-· sion among tavern owners and residents about the existence of such a law. In the light of this uncertainty, Bauer suggested that an additional ordinance might be passed to re-inforce the rule. 
Stepped-up. police enforcement of the law was discussed and bar owners affirmed that security per­sonell posted at exits would attempt to prevent patrons from leaving with cups in their hands. Nickie Bilello, owner of Nickie's, noted that his establishment does employ someone to stop customers from taking drinks out with them, but commented on the difficulty of enforcing such a rule, especially on busy nights. 
The neighborhood council, which has repeatedly stressed that it is not anti-student, suggested to the board that litter and noise ordin­ance warning signs listing possible fines or penalties be posted in the area to warn and inform students. 
Tavern owners also agreed to handle clean-up in the area sur­rounding their property among themselves, mapping out the speci­fic area for which each will be responsible, in accordance with a suggestion made by Theresa Bauer, a part-owner of Bridget McGuire's. Previous clean-up pledges have been concerned most­ly with only the bar property and the immediately !iUrrounding area and have been unsatisfactory to residents, for the most part. 
The neighborhood council accep­ted the bar owners' offer to hire local youths to keep the area clean. Northeast Neighborhood Council President Arthur Quigley said he 
afterward and took the man into custody. 
Lenz and several residents praised the speed with which security had responded to the call. The rectress however voiced her concern that the man would be released and attempt to repeat the offenses, unaware at the time of her statement that he had been freed. Galloway stated that· Secur­ity Director Arthur Pears would have to make any statement on the incident. 
their own clean-up, but agreed to supply bar owners with the names of neighborhood youths who could be hired. Quigley called for endor­sement of Bauer's suggestion of designated clean-up territory. 
The neighborhood council distri­buted copies of a summary of their history of grievances and a set of proposals before the meeting. Quigley outlined a series of attempts the council has made in the last four years to resolve the problem and lack of results in most cases. 
Bilello commented later on what he called an attitued of antagonism toward the bar owners on the part of residents. He also said he would 
like to be notified personally of complaints about his establishment or patrons, rather that facing accusations later. 
Mark Wagner, an attorney rep­
resenting The Library and Nickie's "---:~D~e~t=e~c~tl~·o~n~O~t;I:~X;O;t;i;c;A;il';'e;niiDieiife;c;tis~-.1
cited clean-up efforts, constructive proposals, and the fact that noise from inside is down as evidence of the bar owner's concern. He also mentioned petitions, which he said show that local residents don't oppose the bars. He called for co-operation and "non-harassing tactics." 
Residents of the Corby-Eddy locale gave testimony about the effects of noise and litter in their neighborhood. Roos, one of those who spoke, emphasized that the future of their neighborhoods is at stake. He questioned the validity of some of the signatures on the petitions Wagner had cited. Roos also favored strict enforcement of existing laws and suggested the possibility of firtes for bar owners who do no prevent patrons from leaving with drinks in their hands. 
Terry gave a profile of police activities in the area. "The police are very active in the area 


in THURSDAY 

question by virtue of their pres­
,_,enc_e."-he-con.....,clu-ded_.--. 



Uhe WinJjammer 
CREATIVE HAIR DESIGN 
FOR THE SEXES 
RElAXING ATMOSPHERE 
FREE HAm ANALYSIS RK ltETAR. CENTER 
rt~ ~ 1637 LWW/U~').. So. Bend~~•;:am;'?~> 232-6622
f' "'I" II~ , Appt. only. \. _.=-: .1. 
Anyone enthusiastic about working on next year's . Sophomore Literary Festival as chairperson or committee-member, sign-up In room 309-0'Shag. 
interviews soon, so hurry folks 
FRIDAY _,/(.7·\I 
\@'
APRIL 
15th 
8:00 P.M. in person! 
NOTRE DAME A. C. C. 
Ticket Prices: Tickets on Sale Bleachers ••••••... 53,50
Lower Arena s
Daily At ~he ACC, (End Court) •••••••• 5.00 
Lower Arena s
9-5 (Side Court) ••••••• 6.00 
N.D. & S.M.C. Students , Faculty, and Staff $1.00 off all tickets! 
.· 
9-12 Today Transportation: Bus To Leave At 6p.m. Friday Cost $5.00 
The Few Unfortunate Victims Having 
Had Any Personal Contact With BILL FULLER Within The Last Nineteen Years, 
Please Call Dr. IMA GERM 
S • f r: Th 
OCie Y rOr e 
APR. 281h 8 PM 
NOTRE DAME A.C.C. 
PRICES: 
ALL CHAIR TYPE SEAT$ ________ s7.50 
BLEACHERS -__ --... -'5.50 
Tickets on sale: NOTRE DAME A. C. C. Mon. • Sal 9 to 5 
RobtrtsOII's South Bend & Coaconl Mal Sl Josepll lank and branches 
First Bank •• office 011ly Elkhart Tndll 



sleep
.h 
,
.c eap. 
Elkhart /-80-90 at S.R. 19 (219) 262-3691 
Spotless housekeeping, quiet construction, X-Iong double beds, woll-to-wall shag carpeting, Color 111; direct dial telephone,. full bath, at-your­
. door pa~ing, individually controlled heating and air conditioning. 
Single $10.95-$JJ.95!Double $13.95-$15.95 

----~-­

-----------~-----~·-··-~------------------~--------------­
Thursday, April14, 19n the observer 7 
----------~~~~~~~~~------­

Harvard professor lectures on 'loss' of China 
shek." This belief was expressed widely by both moderates and conservatives and it was included in the 1952 Republican platform. May traced the origin of the "Loss of China" theory through the developmentsof20th-centuryU.S.­Chinese relations. 
May attributed the myth of the "loss" of China to Americans' "feelings of a special relationship with China...an admiration for China...heightened public anxiety
of the era," and the "strains involved in conducting a limited war in Korea." 
Americans had a "psychic need for scapegoats" who were accused by "unscrupulous demagogues that no one held in check." May attributed some of this demagog­uery to a "desperate feeling" by Republican leaders after Dewey's shocking defeat in 1948 which 


by Joe Slovinec Staff Reporter 
Professor Ernest May, Chairman of the History Department at Harvard University, presented a lecture on the "Loss" of China in the faculty lounge of Memorial Library last night. Professor May has served as Dean of Harvard College, the Director of the Har­vard Institute on Politics, advisor to RAND, the Council on Foreign Relations, and the State Depart­ment, and as speciaJ advisor to Presidents Kennedy and Nixon. 
May described his topic of the "Loss" of China as a widespread belief in the United States during the 1950's that "some failure of action by the U.S. government was responsible for the defeat of the Nationalists und~r Chaing Kai-
No serious injuries 
Stanford residents ·wreck 

Four Stanford hall residents taken to Memorial Hospital and escaped serious injury last week treated for cuts and lacerations. when the car they were riding in One passenger suffered a broken jumped the curb and hit a tree on nose. St. Mary's lane. The four were According to St. Joseph's County 
Police, the accident occured about 
3:15 am last Thursday. The car
Nazz hosts play 
was traveling about 40 to SO miles per hour when the driver lost 

The Notre Dame Student Players control and hit the tree. The speed will perform Woody Allen's com­limit on St. Mary's lane is 10 mph. edy Play It Again, Sam tonight at 8 Police charged the driver with at the Nazz. Admission is St. reckless driving. 
The play will also be presented St. Mary's Security, on the tomorrow night, as well as next scene, confiscated the ID cards of Friday and Saturday nights. the four passengers. 
JUNIOR CLASS FORMAL: 
"Lothlorien" 
Friday, April 22-9pm -1am 
at the ACC Concourse Room 
Buy Your Tickets at 
LaFortune Ballroom from 2 -4 pm 

--------·· 
Thursday, April14-Thursday April 21 
TICKET PRICE $7 a couple 
NOTICES 
Logan Center Volunteers: Overnite Campout April 16-17. Meet at Logan Center on Sat. at 11:30 a.m. Will return Sun. 3:30 p.m. Bring sleep­ing bags-blankets. Meals will be provided. We need lots of volun­teers so bring a friend! Any ques­tions call Sue Maude 277-1182 or Jim Scott 283-3975. 
---~----------'----~ 
NEED TYPING? Executary, Inc. Professional Typing Service 10 ty­pists various typestyles. Term papers: $.85 page. Resumes: $2.00 page. Call 232-0898. 
Niles Auction 802 Fort St. 684­6954 or 684-4671 Auction every Frida/ 7:30. · We buy ani! sell furniture. appliances, antiques, and misc. items daily 12 :00 p.m. to 6 p.m. 
EUROPE-WORLDWIDE academic discounts year round S.A.T.A. 4228 First. Tucker, Ga. 30084 (800) 24\-9082. 
Accurate, fast typing.· Mrs. Donoho 232-07d6. Hours: 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. 
TYPING. Call Carolyn at 232-9061. 
Overeaters Anonymous Meeting Saturday 10:30 a.m. -Holy Cross House. Information? Call 284-5239. 
ND Finance Club is bullish on America! Mock Stock Market 10-3 Old Bus. Bldg. 
Free University Notice: Deadline for teacher signup is this Friday, April 
15. Call 7757 now if you have any questions. 
FOR RENT 
Available for summer and-or fall. Studio Apt. close to campus. $90 per month -furnished. Call 287-7739. 
2 excellent houses in fine neigh­borhoods. Each ideal for 4-6 stu­dents. Cost adjusted to number of students $225-300 plus utilities. Call Mr. Gatto 234-6688. 
5-bedroom house, real nice, large living room and kitchen, fully fur­NISHED, CLOSE TO CAMPUS, HAS BURGLAR ALARM, CALL Charlie Moore 272-7180. 
Rooms for rent this summer. Very 
reasonable, and just a few blocks from Notre Dame. Phone 277-3604. 
4 bedrooms, furnished apartment within walking distance of campus. Call William Hill, 232-1724. 
Two bedroom house to rent. Sum­mer and-or school year. 1 0 12 Eddy Street. $120 mo. plus utilities. Call Oddies Harris at 232-8563. · 
Wanted! Summer renters. Five bedroom house. Excellent condition. good location. Rent negotiable. Call 8436. 
LOST&l=OUND 
Found: Between North Dining Hall and Farley before Easter: Gold, clip style hoop earring. Call 8042. 

l . .
------....... ____ .---..... --·---·-------------------.......... ~ .........~ ........... 

caused "othe.rwise respectable May concluded that "the effects people to give McCarthy free of the myth were profound." It led play.". to the "conviction that any instance . May said "urban newspapaers" when any piece of territory came and Time/Life publications served under a Communist regime" would as "propaganda agents for Chaing cause "bitter recrimination against Kai-shek." May also noted prob-the administration." These fears terns caused by "the defenseless-caused Presidents Kennedy and · ness of .victims" who were "iso-Johnson to involve America in the lated from American society in Bay of Pigs invasion, the Domincan China·." Republic intervention, and ther""----·----------1·' Vietnam War. Johnson wrote that 
nee· d pos.·.ters t"n a 
..----------------------...... 
hurry?. 


I
• • !.
•nsty-pr•nls 
the wiz of the printingbiz! 
1 00 -11 x 17 posters Only $10.00 
203 N. Main SOBend 289-6977 
he feared ''the certainty of division in nationaJ debate if we lost Viet· nam." 
May stated that the "chance of a return to the myth seems unlikely" since there is nothereplace "where we have a traditionaJ interest." 
'Therei'i no "widespread anxiety like the 1950's." May's finaJ state­ments were ''the loss of China is a myth" and "after 21 years, we found China again." 
A d•t• f
U I IOnS or 



''THE FANTASTIKS'' 
Sunday, April17 
7pm at LaFortune Rathskeller 
CALL 6818 FOR INFO & 
AUDITION MATERIALS 

St. Mary's Student Govt. now accepting applications for positions of: SOCIAL COMMISSIONER JUDICIAL COMMISSIONER CO-EX COMMISSIONER SPORTS COMMISSIONER SECRETARY TO ACADEMIC COUNCIL Submit resumes & applications to: 
P.O. Box 1007 LM St. Mary's College 


Classified Ads 
Lost: Black leather gloves near Hayes-Healy. Call Debbie 7906. 
Tie tack: Transparent stone with 
Buddha-elephant head. 283-\706, 
272-7623 or G-32 Lib. Morton Kel­sey. 
Lost: One pair glasses, black metal frame, black, plastic case. Call Kevin. 1682. 
WANTED 

Need driver(sJ to Princeton N.J. due to in jury. Will pay all extra expens­es. Leave 14th or 1 Sth. Contact Patterson. rm. 303 Morris Inn. Ph. 234·0141. 
4 .housemates wanted. 5 bedroom, 4 miles from campus. Good neighbor­hood. Pool table, color TV. $75 per month per man. 233-2706. 
Wanted: Experienced fern. BAR MAID. Excellent wages. Hours flexible. 2622 S. U.S. 31 Tele. 
683-6644. . 
FOR SALE 

Ovation guitar many extras with case. Best offer. John 1164. 
Pioneer SX626, dual 1215 turntable, Shure cartridge $200. Chip 7854. 
'73 Fiat 1.24 Spyder convertible low miles. Sharp $2500.00 or best offer. 234-5002 or 683-2090. 
PERSONALS 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY, MO!! 
Desperately need graduation tic­kets. Will pay. Call Dan 3315. 
All Micron Delta Epsilon Members: party tonight at 9:00 p.m. in Grace Hall penthouse for Dr. Murray Weidenbaum. See you there. 
Hank, Thanks for stopping by TWICE!! Ne)(t time I'll be sure to have some brew. Oh, and I'll cook for you anytime. g 
Oh, Hank, thank Doug for me too. 
Do it! Freshmen! Move your arses! Ask that date today! 
Do EUROPE your own way, cheaply . 2-6 weeks. Call Cht is NOW 8728. 
Want to find out who you are and where you're going? Come to the values clarification -life. plannint workshop, Saturday, April 16, noon -6 p.m. in Counse!'ng Center, Rm. 400, Admin. Bldg. Call 1717 for more info. 
Roses are red, Violets are blue, Happy Birthday, Mo, From me to you. 
ST. MARY'S REPORTERS MEE.T­ING -tonight at 7 p.m. in Regina basement office. Call Jean (5165) if you can't attend. Please come!! 
FUTURE MCCANDLESS RESI­DENTS: Vote for Roberts and Rothfuss on April 18. Lynn and Mo-The Way toG! 
Chris, You really should get more work done! G 
Vote for Karen Bickel and Valerie Homola -McCandless hall officers. "Something for Everyone". April 18. 
Give the lady a call. Wish Mo Reynolds a Happy Birtllday. 
To the Bun. Knock, knock... Who's there? Anita... Anita Who? Anita say Happy Bunday Birth. Jobey, Charbey, O.C. Pierre, Zip Buddy, and Neddly (The SuckahsJ 
Girls! For a last look at a REAL GREEK GOD, call Tony Bottini before he fades into just another ND man(?). 
Got you back, didn't I? 
For 1977, why not the worst? Otto for UMOC. 
This is it! This is the last time I'm going to tell you, Notre Dame! Please call Mo Reynolds and wish her a Happy Birthday. 
FUTURE MCCANDLESS RESI­DENTS: Vote for Roberts and Rothfuss on April 18. Lynn and Mo ­The Way to Go! 
Colleen Hickey, Happy Birthday, Cuz. We finally reached the big 21. Have a great day and I'll see you tonight. Love. Katy. 
Vote for AI umni Hall's favorite dog: Otto for UMOC. 
Another personal, Pat. 
Mary McCusker and Pa~y Schirmer are doing research at the Senior Formal...Do you want to be a statistic? 
.. "•......._. "'-'t •.•• ~ ,.,..........~..·~ 4 I.~ ...... ._.•• .1..'4
'\ 
.. _......... , ....., -· ...... .....---~.~"• ....... ~-' ... "' ...~'­
·.!/t11<' "10·) 

1 
1 
~ 
·-! 

1 
1 
-~ --~ ~----~---­
§_ ---~ _____ __
_!b_~_of:?~ e r_'{~"--=r T_~h~ursda Y_,_A_p_ri_l_14_,_1_9_77 

Notre Dame splits with Valparaiso 
by Paul Stevenson been earned. The Notre Dame 
Sports Editor baseball team has lost five one-run 
ballgames,. With a more solid 
The Notre Dame baseball team. defensive effort, these games could 
traveled to Valparaiso, ln. Tuesday have been turned around. 
and returned to du lac with a split The second game of Tuesday's 
in their doubleheader against the doubleheader found Stan Bobowski 
Crusaders. pounding home four runs. The 
The Irish were downed in the senior outfielder connected for a 
first contest 6-2. but rebounded to run producing triple, single and a 
caputre the nightcap 12-8. Mike sacrifice fly. 
Bobonski suffered the loss. lower­Tom Caruso added two hits to 
ing his season record to 1-4, while the Notre Dame winning effort. 
Mark Carney notched the victory in The Kenmore, N.Y. sophomore 
the second game. increasing his slammed a triple and a single. 
ledger to 2-0. Last Thursday, the Irish made up 
·'I thought we played much a two game contest with Bethel 
better defensivelv than we have College. The Notre Dame nine 
been ... Head Coach Tom Kelly easily handled Bethell2-1 and S-0. 
,·ommented. "Valparaiso is a good The Irish baseball squad also 
ballclub. We looked better and had tackled Central Michigan in a twin 
a chance to play some new bill. but the outcome was not the 
people." same. The Notre Dame nine drop­
The Notre Dame diamondmen ped a pair to Central Michigan 9-8 
displayed their best defensive and 12-2. 
performance of their 1977 cam­The Fighting Irish must now 
paign. The Irish nine committed prepare for four games over the 
only one error throughout the weekend. On Friday. the Irish head 
course of the doubleheader. a for Bowling Green, with a two 
season low. game battle scheduled to start at 1 
This is an optimistic change for p.m. On Saturday, the Notre Dame 
the h;sh. The diamondmen have baseball team returns home to host 
given up 133 runs after 20 games, Dlinois State in a twinbill slated to 
and only 94 of those scores have begin at 1 p.m. 
*Observer 



Sports 

Irish golfers await Kepler 
The Notre Dame golf team, to provide added incentive for his coming off a third-place finish in club. ··we were a little disap­Monday's Indianapolis Intercolleg­pointed in our finish at Indianapolis iate. will travel to Ohio State this and hope to come back strong in weekend for the 54-hole Kepler the Kepler. The toughness of the Invitational. The Irish registered a course should more than incite us 760 total for the 36-hole tourna­to play our absolute best," O'Sul­ment held on Indianapolis' Coffin livan observed. The Irish had a Golf Club, 20 shots in back of tough time on the Scarlet last champion Purdue and 17 shots spring averaging 80.5 shots per behing runner-up Ball State. The 
player during the three-round Kep­third-place finish was two notches ler and the four-round Northernbetter than the Irish performance Intercollegiate Notre Dame finish­of a year ago. 
ed 17th and 14th respectively inSenior Bob Belmonte led Notre those events last spring. But with Dame in the tournament that saw strong showing from newcomer17 teams, some 125 players com­Helmonte, Lundgren and Dave pete in warm. windy weather. 
Knee, the Irish are looking toBelmonte was in first place after improve on last year's performan­the morning round with a oneunder ces. par 71, but ran into putting problems on the second 18 and Belmonte leads the Irish with a 
75.4 stroke average over the sea­closed with a 77 for 148. That total son's nine rounds. Lundgrenput him one shot outofa playoff for occupies second place with a 76.6
the medal honors and in fourth stroke average. Tim Saurs, lowplace. Freshman John Lundgren man in the fall, carries a 77.1
tied for lOth with 149 on rounds of 77 and 72. 
average into this week's tourney which will be contested on Friday,In the Kepler. Notre Dame will Saturday and Sunday in Columbus. 
!>e competing this week in one of the top intercollegiate tourneys of After the Kepler the Irish will the season. Contested on the return to competition in their home famous and demanding Scarlet state of Indiana, as they will travel course of Ohio State University, · to Purdue University for the Pur­Irish coach Noel O'Suliinn is doe Invitational to be held on April looking for the high-quality course 23. 


-The Notre Dame baseball team split their series with Valparaiso and must now prepare for Bowling Green this Friday before returning home to host Illinois State on Saturday. 

Bookstore action continues 
by Tom Powanda victory. Mike Banks and Rusty Sahm was a major contributor to Sports Writer Lisch, both known for their gridiron the Tiles in last years' tournament. prowess, showed their ability on Ending yesterday's action was a 

The second day of the Bookstore the hardcourt, as they came away victory by Flying Magicians Basketball Tournament saw its first with eight and five points respec­Johnny Wad and the Four major upset as Tuna Flats, led by tively. Lisch also pulled down eight Shots. Wad and his Hot Shots captain Willie Fry, were upended rebounds. not crack the tough by Scrupes and the Pink Deeks in The losers were led by Bill defense Jed by Jim overtime 22-20. Mike Gallaway Delaney who scored half of Del­Tom Russell, Guy Eggerston, scored four buckets for the win­aney's Profs' points including the Timpani and Jim Hershey. ners the most important one being longest shot of this years' tourney. balanced scoring attack the final shot of the contest. Shooting over Banks, Delaney enough as the Flying 
Trailing the entire game, Scm­swished one from the half court squeeked out the victory pes and the Pink Deeks came from circle for the score. To combat such count: 21-0, a new book~;toJre behind utilizing the hot shooting of a shooting talent, Banks came up record. Jim Sholl. Sinking just one of eight with a new type of defense which Tomorrow's contests finds shots in the first half, Sholl found entailed the splasing of water meggers II. led by Mike rn•w••n•. the range as he popped in eight which had accumulated from an going against Ba Ka Ya . buckets in a row to open the second afternoon shower, at the oppo­the bookstore at 6:30. half. Finally pulling even at 19, the nents. megger<> were last years' r111ttiP·rPII" Deeks ended the game on Gall­In yet another contest, The team as they advanced to the away's jumper. Corsican Liberation Army, led by Four without the services of 
Fry led the losers with eleven Rob Bush, Charlie Weis and Terry varsity basketball player. scores, which is high for this year's Eurick, came up with a 21-17 another interesting game, tourney. Sholl finished the contest victory over Trre Biters. Bush Carpenter will lead Law against with nine points while Mike Bobin­contributed eight scores for the The Green Machine. This could be ski contributed five tallies for the winners while Eurick and Weis Notre Dame's own version of The victors. added six and seven points respec­Challenge of The Sexes, as Car­
Other action in yesterday's play tively. penter and his team will have their saw the tournament's 1976 MVP, Billy Fogerty sunk nine shots as hands full, as they play a team Dave Batton, and his Tiles victor­he led Roman Polanski's Baby consisting of five women. Game ious in their opening round game. Sitting Service to a win over ldi time here is 5:30 behind the 
Continuing the flair he diplayed in Amin's Interfaith Council in a bookstore. last year's tourney, Batton finished rough 21-18 decision. In the true the contest with five buckets while tradition of the Bookstore Toorn­pulling down 10 rebounds. ament, Ted Robinson of the win­Women's sports
The game however, was not an ners played in the contest despite a easy one for Tiles, as Pat Jordan broken finger. 
to hold banquet 

and his Teddy Roosevelt Rides In another close one, Uranus and Again squad came up with 14 the Corn Holes dropped a 21-17 The second annual Notre Dame points against a much taller oppo­decision to the Golden Ginzos. Led Women's Sports' Banquet will be nent. Jordan tied for the scoring by Bob Brink with sO: points and held Tuesday, April 19, in the honors with Tiles' Billy Sheehan, Chip Scanlon with four, the Corn Faculty Dining Room. The awards each contributing six buckets. Holes could not overcome a tough ceremony will begin promptly at 
Joe Montana, a newcomer to the Ginzo team. 5:30 p.m. The purpose of the Tiles this year, added four hoops Billy Sahm, having to leave banquet is to honor all women's for the victors including two dunks. Batton's Tiles because of his var­varsity and club sports. The 
Another highly ranked team, sity basketball status, showed that ceremony will mart the first time a Average White Team, played their his W.A.S.U. squad could make a Notre Dame monogram will be first game of the tournament run at the championship as he and awarded to women, doe to wo­yesterday. Playing without their T.R. Paulding each contributed men's fencing and tennis being high scoring captain Billy Paterno, seven scores apiece in an easy 21-7 given varsity status. The banquet _ AWT came away with an easy 21-4 victory over Digger's Downfall. is open to the public. 
• 

Irish gridders hold second scrimmage by Paul Stevenson At this point, the offensive line up for. The Irish defense, led by Sports Editor seems to be a trouble spot. The captains Ross Browner and Willie The Notre Dame football team Irish line is not performing with the Fry, as well as linebackers Doug held their second scrimmage of the same polish they displayed at the Becker and Bob Golic, kept the spring season yesterday on Cartier conclusion of the 1976 season. pressure on the offense. Field. The Irish gridders showed a The backfield is constantly This Saturday, the Irish gridders mark improvement over their changing because of injuries or will hold a scrimmage in the Notre scrimmage performance of two absences of players. Thus, the Dame Stadium. The scrimmage is weeks ago. overall offensive performance is open to the public free of charge. However, the spring sessions hampered and the essential timing Although the overall perfor­have been frustrating due to injur­is thrown off. mance may not have been superb, ies to sev.eral key players. Halfback The quarterback situation re­there has been a noted improve­AI Hunter and tight end Ken mains the same, with Rusty Lisch ment. "The attitude is great and MacAfee are missing from the controlling the number-one spot. the players are working hard," offensive unit, while Jim Browner Lisch is followed by Gary Forsystek Head Coach Dan Devine remarked. has vacated his defensive position. and Joe Montana. Hopefully, this determination will . There is a possibility they will be Whatever inexperience the lead to the quality desired by the ready to scrimma e this Saturday. offense revealed, the defense made · Blue-Gold arne.  Ross Browner led the Irish defense in yesterday's scrimmage.  




