--~.~.;-­
·~--~------~~--------------------------~~--~~.-.~~~~~----------------------·~----­
.. ---..,....---------­
Citizens rally opposition to Logan budget cut 
by Peggy McGuire Staff Reporter 
Over 450 interested citizens and members of the Council for the Retarded of St. Joseph County gathered Tuesday night at the Logan Center cafetorium to ~na­lyze the impact of and rally support against the state budget commit­tee's recent $10 million cutback in funds appropriated for services to the developmentally disabled. 
Richard Cleary, president of the council's board of dire~tors, chair­ed the event which in~:;luded a response by Raymond Rizzo, exe­cutive assistant to Indiana Gover­nor Otis Bowen. Aloysius Soen­neker, executive director of the Council for the Retarded, and Dr. Bernadette Merluzzi, a council member, also spoke. The audience frequently interrupted the speakers with questions and statements. 
Rizzo assured the group that the figures released by the budget committee are tentative. Pre­seqtly, the budget agency is study­ing each of the state's 62 centers for the developmentally disabled to determine the necessity of adjust­ing appropriated funds at the committee's Oct. 15 meeting. 
"I don't see that there are any villains among us," Rizzo said. "I see this as a group ... attempting to 
resolve a problem and be a service to the people.'' 
While Bowen's executive assis­tant refused to promise the rein­statement of the funds, he did stress that the figures released "were not the last word." He also remarked that "sessions like this one tonight will have special effects on people." 
Throughout the program, Dr. Bernadette Merluzzi, mother of a retarded child, proposed several measures interested citizens should take to voice disapproval of the budget committee's action. She asked those in attendance to distribute petitions addressed to Bowen and write letters to mem­bers of the state budget committee. Merluzzi also requested that con­cerned persons sign a petition agreeing to pay for a personal telegram sent directly to the gover­nor's office. 
The council is also planning a 
march on the state capitol grounds 
if the committee does not appro­
priate more funds by Oct. 12. 
"We're not here just for Logan; 
we're here for state-wide, and 
we're going to get that money 
back,'' Merluzzi said~ 
Soenneker presented an analysis 
of the state budget committee's 
action and stated its impact at 
Logan Center. The cutback of over $700,000 from Logan Center's requested funding will eliminate all summer programming, discontinue all or most recreation service and delay all plans for the development of existing programs. 
"But the problem involves more than the cutback," Soenneker stated. "The present allocation system is very complex and needs much improvement." 
Soenneker explained that much of the allocated money is in Title XX funds, a program aided by the federal and state governments to help lower income citizens. Those eligible for Title XX funds are divided into two classes: welfare recipients and those meeting cer• tain income guidelines. However, each center must maintain a bal­ance between these two groups. Because there are fewer welfare recipients at Logan Center, 40 patients must seek aid elsewhere. "Most of our clients are not going to be eligible for Title XX funds," commented Merluzzi, "and I want to know why our middle-class children have to be hurt like this." 

The 
"My three year old daughter is pretty and sweet, but there's a lot she can't do," she continued. "The schools are requi~d to take her at a certain age, but she needs this special help now, and I don't have the money to pay for it. H she gets cut, she's just going to fall further and further behind." 
"We've never had a bigger surplus in our state," stated Bour­nie Bauer, a member of the Council for the Retarded. "It's insane that we should be cuttin~ back a few 
[Continued on page 5] 
Observer 
an independent student newspaper serving nutre dz.me and st. mary's Vol. XII, No. 23 Tllursdav. September 29, 1977 
Gryp reconsiders 'preferential' tix 
by Jack Pizzolato and Kevin Walsh Senior Staff Reporters 
Student Union (SU) Director Tom Gryp, under pressure, stated yes­terday that he would take action to reverse the present Union policy of reserving "preferential" football tickets for members of the SU organization. 
Gryp's decision came about due to the reaction he received at the Hall President's Council (HPC) meeting Tuesday night when he revealed that he had set aside 32 USC tickets, two passes to the Steve Miller concert, and two tickets to the Homecoming dance. 
Out of the 250 packages distributed Associate Director Jodie-Korth, by the ACC, only 234 were put on two to SU Comptroller Colleen sale. McGrath, and two to each of the 
The rest, Gryp said, were held five major commissioners within back for certain members of the the Union. Student Union, Student Body Pres­Several HPC members ex­
ident Dave Bender, and two mem­pressed concern at the SU policy bers of the Homecoming com­despite Gryp's assurances that it mittee. Eight tickets were sold to has been a common practice in the Steve Miller as part of a contract past. Sources within the HPC say agreement with the Student Union. the body may adopt a resolution 
Another will be presented to the demanding that the Student Union winner ofthe Helen of Troy contest cease this practice. to be held during Homecoming "I told the HPC for two rea­week. sons," Gryp commented after­
"Preferential" tickets for SU ward,'' to Jet people know it wasn't personel were distributed as fol­hush, hush and to see their lows: two sold to Gryp, four to SU reaction. I didn't a lot of 
Urban Plunge offers unique opportunity 
by Miiureen Eyres 

Although it may sound like a swim in a city pool, Urban Plunge is a 1-credit course which requires the student to become a resident of an inner city for 48 hours during Christmas break. The student is given the opportunity to witness the complexity, poverty and oppression of American cities as well as the social action groups which are attempting to improve 
that life. 
According to father Don McNeil, director of the Center for Experien­tial Learning, "The goal of the 'plunge' is to give students a taste 
of urban life and stimulate their 
awareness. They are challenged to 
re-think their own views and com-
mitmer;ts." • 
Barb Frey, a member of the 

Urban Plunge Task Force added, 
''Another goal is to witness some of 
the involvement of the Church in 
attempting to resolve the prob­
lems, not only as a symbol of hope 
but as an active instrument of 
change." 
Co-sponsored by CILA, the Cath­

olic Committee on Urban Ministry 
(CCUM), Student Government, 
Center for Experiential Learning, 
the Department of Theology and 
the Institute of Urban Studies, the 
Urban Plunge will be offered in 
over 35 cities across the United 
States between January 2-14, 1978. 
The students will be hosted in each 

city by CCUM members and will stay in convents, rectories and community buildings. "This 'live­in' experience encourages students to take a closer look at the reality of urban life and offers them the chance to see how the Church and other concerned groups are respon­ding to problems that exist in the city," McNeil added. 
Course requirements include a preparatory meeting, readings examining contemporary urban problems, the 48-hour plunge over break, 2 brief written assignments and a follow-up meeting in the home of a faculty member. The preparatory meeting will inform students of the needs of cities in America today and allow them to meet with their CCUM hosts. The follow-up will give students the chance to share and evaluate their experience. The course will be graded satisfactory I unsatifactory. 
This year students have .the option to sign up for a 3-credit interdisciplinary course which will be taught through the Economics, Government and Theology depart­ments. The Urban Plunge is a prerequisite for the course. 
"The class will give students further insight into some of the problems and programs that they have witnessed during their two 
days  in the city,"  McNeil  com­ 
mented.  
[Continued on page.S]  

smiles," he further remarked. . After talking to different HPC 
members, Gryp noted that the 
response to his action was ques­
tionable at best." 
"The policy is wrong," he 
concluded,"I made a bad judge­
ment." Gryp said that he will take 
steps to prevent future directors 
from giving SU personel "prefer­
ential" treatment. He also stated 
that if the HPC drafts a resolution 
concerning the practice, he will 
present it before the SU Board of 
Directors for discussion and de­
bate. 

Earlier in the week, Gryp told the 
Observer about the SU ticket 
• 

commenting that he thought he had struck a "happy balance" between student demands and Union loy­alty. "I made a list of those people in the Student Union who have a lot of responsibility and who deserve some reward," Gryp explained. "All of us are not payed and I felt I should offer something." 
Gryp emphasized that everyone was paying for their tickets. "I didn't think that I was depriving the student body," he noted, "and ifI deprived those within the Union there might be hard feelings and less efficiency." 
Gryp also admitted that some people had expressed concern that the 16 Homecoming packages were split up when the ACC assumed that the tickets would not be sold seperately. Gryp explained that 
those who bought the USC tickets were already in a position where they were receiving free homecom­ing tickets as well as a set ~f complimentary passes to the Steve Miller concert. 
"If we sold them the packag«:," Gryp said, ''that would give them 
: four concert tickets and I thought 
· this was unfair." A policy concerning the distribu­: tion of SO complimentary tickets to :concerts co-sponsered by the Stu­
dent Union was approved this year 
•by the SU Board of Directors. The Board consists of the SU Director, SU Associate Director, SU Comp­troller, Student Body President and Vice President, and the Director of Student Activities. 
According· to the policy, the 
: Student Body President and Hall 
· President Council Chairman each 
· receive four tickets to be "dis­tributed in their organization in a manner of their choosing.'' the S U Director will distribute the remain­ing 42 tickets among each of Student Union's commissioners. They, in turn, will award them to individuals within their commission "who have given consistent and meritous service to the Union." 
Gryp said that it did not matter to him if this policy was changed. "If the student body feels this is a questionable thing," he stated, ''then we'll bring it up before the 
. Board." 
SU Comptroller Colleen McGrath 
:sees nothing wrong with the pref­erential treatment extended to Union members.. "It's no big thing," said McGrath. "The 
[Contlnaed on page 4] 


Thursday, September 29, 1977
2 the obHrver 

~News Briefs____.......,.,. 
1==================================:::::::=:World 
Plane basks on runway 
DACCA* Bangladesh-A hijacked Japan Air Lines DC8with 156 persons aboard sat isolated on a sunbaked runway here today while its Japanese "Red Army" captors threatened to fire on anything moving within 500 yards of the plane. Two-thirds of the passengers were believed to be Japanese. The plane carried a crew of 14. 


=================================== National 
Serious crime rises slightly 
WASHINGTON -Serious crime in the United States mcreased less than one percent from 1975 to 1976, but Kentucky had a two percent increase in the same category for that period, U.S. Attorney General Griffin Bell said yesterday as the FBI's annual Uniform Crime Report was released. Serious crimes are identified in the report as murder, forcible rape, robbery, aggravated assault, burglary, larceny-theft and motor vehicle theft. 
Post O.ffice changes rule 
WASHINGTON -The Postal Service yesterday dropped a requirement that letters be addressed by hand to qualify for the proposed new "citizens rate" mail. Under the "citizens rate" plan, a private citizen will be able to continue to use the present 13 cent rate for mailing first-class letters, while the rate for businesses will go up to 16 cents. Postmaster General Benjamin 
F. Bailer said the decision was in response to many request, some from handicapped persons, who said the handwriting rule would work a hardship on them. 

Weather 
Increasing cloudiness and mild today with highs in the mid to upper 60's. A chance for rain tonight and tomorrow. Low tonight in the low SO's. High tomorrow in the mid 60's. Pro~c;~bility of precipitation 40 percent tomorrow night. 

~On Campus Today_---... 
4 pm seminar, "observations on the problem of scientific information -data for science & technology", dr. frederick d. rossini, rice university, conference rm., radiation lab, sponsored by radiation lab, open to public 
6 pm meeting, amnesty international, rm. 116 o'shag., all invited 
6:30pm organizational meeting and slide presentation, "involvement in the spanish community in south bend," olga villa, media director, badin chapel, sponsored by community services of badin hall ­open to public 
7,9,11 pm film, "royal wedding", eng. aud., $1 
7 pm meeting, smc-nd right to life, amphitheater, Iafortune 
7:30pm informal lecture, fieldwork in anthropology, jim bellis, library lounge 
8 pm pep rally, dillon alumni courtyard -featured speaker; joe montana, coach george kelly, and football co-captains and others. 
9-11 pm doug stringer, nazz, basement of Iafortune 
wsnd album hour, john klemmer, "lifestyle", 640 fmmidnight 
films, featuring laurel and hardy, darby's place
12:10­12':40 am 

Hoosiers get Federal money 
WASHINGTON [AP]-The federal government is giving Hoosier con­sumers a financial boost to chal­lenge rate increases sought by electric utilities. 
Indiana is one of 12 state~ selec~e~ by. the Fed~ral Energy Admmtstratton to parttcipate in a pilot program designed to safe­guard the interests of consumers in 
electric rate cases. 
The state will receive a maxi­mum grant of $200,000, which will be administered bv the Office of 
The Observer 11 published Mon. dey through Frtclev except durtng exem end vaatlon periods. Tt)e Observer Is published by the students of Not,.. Deme end S•lnt Mery's College. Subscriptions mev be purdlesed for uo per veer (S I 0 per semester) from The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Not,.. Deme, lndlene 46556. Second clen poatege peld, Not,.. Deme, lndlene, 4UU. 
The Observer 11 • member of the Auocleted Prell. All ,..pro­duction rlghtl e,.. ,..served. 

the Public Counselor. The money either will be used by the public co~nselor to represent customers' interests in rate hearings or will allocated directly to consumer groups engaged in rate challenges before the Public Service Commis­sion. 
Sen. Birch Bayh, who made the announcement, said one of the FEA's criteria for awarding the grants was the cost of electricity in each state and the percentage of income used to pay for it. The Hoosier Democrat noted that 41 states applied for $2 million autho­rized for the program under the Energy Conservation and Produc­tion Act of 1976. 
Right to Lifers to meet tonight 

The ND-SMC Right to Life Committee will hold an organiza­tional meeting tonight at 7 p.m. in tre·Amphitheatre of LaFortune. All students are invited to attend. 

NY police find jewel merchants, but no jewels 
NEW YORK [AP] -Police found 
the two diamond merchants who 
had been missing for several days 
but not the up to Sl million in 
jewels one was carrying. One was 
dead, the other alive and telling a 
bizarre tale of robbery, murder and 
kidnap. 
The body of Pinchos Jaroslawicz, 
stuffed into a plastic bag and minus 
the jewels, was found yesterday 
hidden in the midtown office of 
Shiomo Tal , a business acquain­
tance who also had been missing. 
Jaroslawicz, 25, had been beaten 
and suffocated. 
Tal, 31, a gem cutter, was found 
asleep in his car earlier in the day, 
after dropping from sight Sunday. 

Tal gave an account of two men invading the premises Sept. 20 and beating broker Jaroslawicz, 25, to death with a board. He said he continued to do business in the 15th floor office in the center of Manhattan's teeming diamond dis­trict, with Jaroslawicz's body there, and that the two men, reappeared five days later, kidnap­ped him, drugged him, robbed him and finally released him. 
"The real problem is the story is so stupid that it might be true," said a detective working on the case. "You can be sure we are going to question this guy and check out every move he ever made." 
On Sunday, Tal was quoted as saying, the two mystery men suddenly reappeared, stopping his car at a traffic light on Long Island. He said he was forced to drive the pair around for three days. Then, he said, he was drugged and released early yesterday. 



(%The Observerl 
I Night Editor: Paul Schappler Asst. Night Editor: Lauren McNulty 
Layout Staff: Bob Brink, Phlip Hannigan, Katie Ker­win Editorial layout: Rosemary Mills Sports Layout: Bob Keen, Paul Stevenson Typists: Gwen Coleman, Mary McCormick, Beth Rizzo, Lisa DiValerio E.M.T.: Mardi Nevin Day Editor: Mary Lawrence, Kathy Connelly Copy Reader: Honey McHugh, Jack Pizzolato, Ann Gales Ad layout: Paula Carroll, Steve Bonomo 

thotographer: Greg Trzupek J 
~---------------,
(Library Liquor Storel I Specials I 
I I I I I Schnapps qt. 5399 I 
99

I Vodk'-qt. 53 I
I I 
5369

I Gin 5th I 
1369

I Whiskey 5th I 
I Ri I
. $197
1 umte Lambrusco I 
5439


I Fall Oty I


I · 5 I 
539

1 Pabst 1 
5549


I Busch I 
I I
I Bud $599 I 
II All 0 UR SPECIALS II I CAN BE BOUGHT I I COLD I I at the same price I 
I I
1The liquor store will be open 1 f>etore all home games ~t 9:0'11 for your convenience ; \ _______,, 




100 CENTER SPECIAL 
SHUTTLE BUS FROM NOTRE DAME 
LIBRARY TO 100 CENTER 
Mondays thru Fridays. Depart ND at 5 :1 5 Retum approx. 9:30 
(after 1st show at the Flix) 
DINE AT THE ICE HOUSE 
Get free pass to Boiler House Flix Shopping and Dining 'fun 1oo Center Mishawaka 
STA TING SEPT. 29 
~;:~:~::::;:;:::::;;;:;:;:;;;:;:::::::::::;:::::;::;:;:;::;:;:::::::::;:;:;:::::::;:;::;::;::::::;;:::;:::;:;:;:;;::;:;:;:::;:;::;::::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:,;;:;:::::::::;:;:;:::;:;::::::: 
.... LEWISIO'S .... 
Grand Opening 
FEATURING Jules Thompson at the Piano All the spaghetti, etc. you can eat $2.00 
Join us for dinner after the game 
I1 pm L~tb~~:~ ~~~::o~s (InfoI 
J limited seating call Carin 3735 ~\~~ 
l,..,..,,,,,..,,..................,............,,........ ..,......,.....,........"''"''"">''''"''"'"'·'''""J 
Thursday, September 29, 1977 the ObServer 
At Saint Mary's 






New Frosh Council approved 
Although most students are unable to enjoy the fountain near the Huddle on a windy day, some local birds have found it excellent for bathing. [Photo by Greg Trzupek] 
For Luce Program 
by Jean Powley St. Mary's Editor 

St. Mary's freshman class will be 
represented this year in student government by a 16 member council. The proposal to replace the four-officer system was approved overwhelmingly by approximately 
150 freshmen present at last 
night's meeting in the Angela 
Athletic Facility. 
The new council system, ten­
atively adopted by St. Mary's 
Student Assembly last spring, evol­
ved out of a desire to involve 
freshmen in the varied aspects of 
student government. Another 
reason for the change, according to 
Kathy Murphy, last year's vice­
president of student affairs and 
writer of the proposal, is that often 
freshmen elections are little more 
than popularity contests since vot­
ers don't know many people yet. 
One representative per 25 fresh­
men will be elected, with at least 
one person from each dorm on the 
councii. During her first semester, 
Cathy Hedges, vice-president of 


Scholar nominations sought 
by Sue Wuetcher 

Notre Dame has been asked to nominate three persons for parti­cipation in the Luce Scholars Program. The purpose of this nation-wide program is to give the exceptional student, who otherwise might not have the opportunity to do so, a chance to live, work and study informally in Asia. The objective is to develop a new level of understanding among future leaders. , 
Participants are placed in jobs and internships according to their backgrounds and professional in­terests. None of the scholars is formally enrolled in a college or university, and no academic credit is given. The emphasis is placed on career rather than academic goals. 
The program is funded by the Henry Luce Foundation. Nine thousand dollars has been estab­lished as the basic stipend for each Scholar, and all ma)or expenses must be met from this figure. 
To be eligible for the Luce Scholars Program, an applicant must be an American citizen who has a bachelor's degree, or who will receive a degree before parti­cipating in the program, and who will be no more than 29 years of age on Sept. 1, 1978. Scholars will be chosen on the basis of high academic achievement, outstand­ing leadership ability and strong, clearly defined career interest in a specific field other than Asian affairs or international relations. 
In order to be considered, can­didates must submit biographic information, a personal statement, academic transcripts and four let­ters of recommendation. All those interested should contact Professor Donald Costello or pick up appli­cation materials in Room 350 O'Shaughnessy. The deadline for all applications is noon on Monday, Nov. 28. 

Panel cites causes of red tape 
W ASillNGTON [API -A special 
panel set up to reduce government 
paperwork concluded yesterday 
after 360 separate reports and 770 
recommendations that Congress 
and poorly written legislation are at 
the root of government red tape. 
It also suggested that President 
Carter, who has vowed to simplify 
the government and reduce its red 
tape, ask Congress to create a new 
Cabinet-level Department of 
Adminstration to improve federal 
work habits. 
The report by the Commission on 
Federal Paperwork prompted 
immediatecontroversy. One mem­
ber, Bruce G. Fielding, called its 
work a waste of money. A former 
staff member, Philip Vargas, said 
his study on government secrecy 
was suppressed and replaced by 
one far less critical. 
During a brief ceremony at which 
the report was presented to Carter, 
one commission member said that 
if Carter can make the massive 
inroads in the paperwork burden, 
he would be the greatest president 
in history. 
"I'm determined to do it," 
Carter replied. 
Vice President Walter F. Mon­dale, addressing the commission, said excessive paperwork has caused an incalculable "loss of trust and respect for the governmental 
system." 
"We cannot tolerate in this 
country paperwork and reports that 
are unneeded and unjustified and 
for no public purpose," he said. 
Carter, both during his presiden­
tial campaign and since taking 
office, has frequently criticized 
what he considered to be excessive 
paperwork requirements imposed 
on consumers, businesses, farmers 
and industry by the federal govern­
ment. 
But, according to the commis­
sion, "legislation is the root cause 
of paperwork." 
It said that at each stage of the legislative process, Congress should consider the paperwork, reporting and record-keeping pro­cedures that each bill would create. 
It also recommended that federal agencies, which actually impose most of the paperwork require­ments after Congress acts, should make greater efforts to involve in the rule-making procedures anyone affected by the regulations. 
"Legislation and regulations are drafted with little thought as to how paperwork or burdens on others might be minimized," the report said. 
In preparing the 77-page report, the commission heard complaints about red tape from 3,500 persons. 
The panel, made up of members of Congress, state and local com­munity representatives, adminis­tration officials, and business and union leaders, found that the cost of federal paperwork may exceed $100 billion a year, or about $500 for each U.S. resident. Although much of the paperwork is neces­sary, some is not, it said. 
It estimated that 50 percent of its 770 recommendations have been implemented by Congress and the federal government at a savings of 
Dillon 

pep rally 

The Dillon Hall pep rally, featuring quarterback Joe Mon­tana and Coach George Kelly, will begin at 8 p.m. tonight in the courtyard between Dillon and Alumni Halls. The rally is traditionally held the Thursday night before the first home football game. 
Co-captains Willy Fry, Terry Eurick and Ross Browner will also speak, as well as middle linebacker Bob Gollc and others. 
Skits will be presented by Dillon residents. 
$3.5 billion. 
But, it said, "unnecessary paper work is symptomatic of confusing organization, inadequate manage­ment, and poor information prac­tices. These root causes of paperwork must be treated or new forms and problems will spring up again." 
It said the burdens of paperwork are both economic and psychologi­cal. 
As an example of the economic burden, it said a school disregar­ded a $4,500 grant because it would have required $6,000 in paperwork. 
It cited as an example of a psychological burden "the frustra­tion and anger of a family that must spend 35 hours filling out a student aid application." 
Former prof exhibits art 
Rev. Anthony J. Lauck, C.S.C., director emeritus of the Notre Dame Art Gallery, will be honored during October with an exhibition of 30 sculptures and water colors at the Kokomo Public Library. Lauck will present a short talk at the exhibition opening Tuesday, , Oct. 4, sponsored by the Sculptors' Guild of Kokomo. 
Lauck was a member of the art faculty at Notre Dame for 25 years and served as department chair man from 1960 to 1967. He also served as director of the Art Gallery from 1957 through 1974. 
Many of his sculptures have been acquired for private and public collections, including Ball State University Musuem, Butler Institute of Fine Arts, Corcoran Gallery of Art in Washington, Evansville Museum of Arts and Sciences, Gary Art Center, Indian­apolis Museum of Art and Norfolk Museum of Art and Science, Vir­gina. 
student affairs, will chair the council and report on its activites to the Board of Governance. 
A chairperson from within the council will be elected at the beginning of the second semester, however, she will then run the meetings and be a voting member of the Board of Governance. Hedges will remain as an advisor only. 
Several freshman council mem­bers will regularly attend the meetings of the Notre Dame Fresh­men Council. The representatives will also be urged to attend the St. Mary's meetings. 
''This will help promote a stron­ger relationship and more interac­tion between the two classes," according to the proposal. 
Nominations will open Monday with the election being held Oct. 17 in the dining hall. 
"We really want to encourage 
people to vote," stated Maria 11 00 -11 x posters Miganelli, elections commissioner. Only $1 0.00 -Student Body President Mary Rukavina told the Observer that 203 N. Main although she was 
Buy all your Tennis needs 
at Discount Prices lo~est prices on racketball, handball, and squash needs 
Mon-Fri 9-6 

233-8712 Sat. 9-4 321 S. Notre Dame 


A Comedy of Errors 
SMC 
Shakespeare's merry masquerade. 
October7, 8, 13, 14, 15 
THEATRE at 8:00p.m. All seats $2.50 O'Laughlin ($2 Std-Fac-Staff) Phone: 284-4176

Auditorium 
SEASON TICKETS STILL AVAILABLE.................... 
4 PLAYS $9 ($7 Std-Fac-Staff) l!lcliJdes: COMEDY OF ERRORS, CAUCASIAN CHALK CIRCLE, TOUCH OF A POET, and THE MIKADO 

Can Just ANYONE Purchase From Diamond Import Company? 
Technically, yes. But then, we're not sure just ANYONE would want to do so. We're not a "jewelry store," so we don't offer watches, silverware. or synthetic stones. Our specialization lies in diamonds and fine gems, 18k gold and platinum jewelry. We also offer appraisal services and estate 
jewelry, which is slightly removed from the norm. 
So. you see. we don't attempt to please just ANYONE. We serve those who appreciate qualiiy, and the professionalism of a Graduate Gemologist. To those persons. whether they wish to invest $250.00 or $25,000.00 we extend our 
personal invitation. 

Lobby St. Joseph Bank Building South Bend, Indiana Telephone: 287-1427 
John M. Marshall's 

the turnout at the meeting, "I was happy with the amount of questions and interest shown by those here. Our next step is to convey their sentiments to the Student Assem­bly and get some freshmen officials 
elected." 
need posters in a hurry? 

I. 
I •

•IRS Y·prln s!. 
the wiz of the printingbiz!
17 

Thursday, September 29, 1977
the observer 



Aerospace Building houses research projects 


by Ed Callahan of engineering at the Uiiiversity, 
and smooth air-flow, important to who did pioneer r~search in wind safety and performance of the 
Some of the world's best facili-tunnel experiments. He was the craft. Experiments can also be ties for researching air flows are · first man to develop a large three done on super-sonic flight in any of located in an old Army dispensary dimensional smoke tunnel in 1950. three super-sonic wind tunnels on the Notre Dame campus and Vincent Goddard, professor of available at the lab. very few students even know where aerospace engineering, continued The department includes a it is. the work started by Brown, when in bio-medical lab, also housed in the 
The building is the Aerospace 1959 he applied the smoke tunnel Aerospace Lab building. Extensive Engineering Laboratory, situated aspects to super-sonic speeds. research has been done on artificial behind the stadium on Juniper Rd. Goddard was very active in the heart valves by Mueller and his near the A.C.C. The older, south department until he died July 17th, staff who approach the problem by half of the buildin~ was constructed 1977 at the age of fifty-six, just applying engineering air flow prin­of wood and tr in 1947 by the eight months after the death of ciples to the blood flow. Their Army who usea it as a dispensary. Brown. equipment includes a mock circu­The newer section was built in 1967 With the help of these men and latory system, a heart valve testing 
• as an addition, and was fabricated Thomas J. Mueller, the current The Aero-space building [Photo by Greg Trzupek] machine and a heart-lung machine. with a tin exterior and a concrete director of the Aerospace Lab, the The building contains two block interior. facilities have evolved into a high NASA, and usually center around The department is also experi­low-speed smoke tunnels, two main The Aerospace Engineering class research organization. air flows of objects. At present the menting with winds whipping smoke tunnels and the three Department was founded in 1935 Experiments are often per-department is studying the air across tall structures and build­super-sonic speed tunnels. It also by Frank Brown, then a professor formed for the government or flows around land vehicles such as ings. Such work allows architects has room for four classrooms, a 
e e • e e e e e e e e e e e e e • • • e e • e e e • e • • • • •• semi-trailer trucks and recreational to design buildings that will with­machine shop where for construc­e • vehicles. The object of the re-stand certain air pressures and tion of models and the only • • search is to see if air resistance and strong gusts. blueprint copying machine on cam­
• Junior Class sponsors trip to • drag can be minimized, thus allow-Research on aircraft includes pus. The lab building has a total • • ing for increased fuel mileage. testing wing models for turbulence floor area of 16,000 square feet. 
: GREAT AMERICA :
• • Freshman Advisory Council 
• amusement park •
. .-·· 
• Sat., October 8. (no game then). $10 : 
holds inaugural meeting 
: Package includes buses & ticket. Tickets • by Jana Schutt
• 
available in ND-SMC Dining Halls during • Following the meal the group was provide feedback on general condi­

• 
dinner. $5 deposit due by Od. 1. • addressed by Dave Bender, stu­tions as they affect freshmen; 2) to • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • Members of the Freshman Ad-dent body president, on leadership report individual situations that are 



visory Council had their inaugural 
qualities and the role of Student particularly good or bad for fresh­
meeting Tuesday with a dinner at Government and the Student Union men; 3) to evaluate plans con­the University Club. The meal, at Notre Dame. 
sidered for the future by theWhat's on !JOUr mind?... hosted by Emil T. Hofman, dean of The Council, started five years Freshman Year of Studies; and 4)
•~reshman Year of Studies, was a ago under the direction of Hofman, to make recommendations for get acquainted session. Past acts as a liaison between the changes or new programs that will members of the Council, J.P. freshman class and the Freshman improve conditions for freshmen.

GIL EAGLES 
Russell, senior and chairman of the Year office. It includes a repre­Accompanying their work for the 
Hall Presidents Council; Kris sentative from each hall and a Freshman Year office, the group
Quann, junior; and Curt Hensch, representative for the off-campus acts as the student leaders of the
Will KNOW! sophomore; spoke on the activities freshmen. freshman class. In previous yearsof the Council in the past. 
Council functions are: l) to it has sponsored a freshman formal and petitioned for permission to allow freshmen to have cars on
House-Senate agreement
See him perform amazing feats 
campus after the first semester. of hypnotism & ESP Members of the Freshman Ad­visory Council for this school year

onabortion policy imminent 
be there to participate! are: Tim Donley-Aiumni, Jana 
Schutt-Badin, Sue Leininger-Breen W ASIDNGTON [AP] -Pressure diseases. Among these are mul­Phillips, Steve Miller-Carroll,mounted yesterday for quick tiple sclerosis and renal or kidney Gregory Hansen-Cavanaugh, Mark House-Senate agreement on an disease because they could seri­Nasca-Dillon, Rosemary Abowd ­
..Thursday Sept. 29 8:00pm ously deform or debilitate a fetus. Farley, Bob Kierzkowski-Fisher,
abortion policy before money runs 
out for government social service The abortion issue is the last Donald J. Cole-Fianner, Paul 
agencies whose funds depend on remaining obstacle to passage of Weithman-Grace, John Plunkett­
the outcome. the Labor-HEW bill. The conferees Holy Cross, Joseph Babington­
Angela Athletic Facility (SMC) House and Senate confereees have been working on the bill since Howard. Bill Carson-Keenan, Sue 
1 LiquorIRHINE CROWN ILIEBFRAUMILCH I $299 a fifth 
I ~WHITE TAVERN 
I GIN or VODKA 
I s379 
fifth 
I or 
$1QSS
I1 3 tor I mix or match
I 

planned to try to write a compro­July. Walsh-Lewis, Cori Shea-Lyons,
mise somewhere between strict Current restrictions on govern­John Saigh-Morrissey, Mark limits on federally funded abortions ment funded abortions match the Pikula-Pangborn, Chris Digan-St.which have been adopted by the restrictions in the House proposal Edward's, Morrie Conway-Sorin,House, and more liberal ones because that same language wa~ Jim Quinn-Stanford, Cathy Dono­endorsed by the Senate. written into law last year. ·.. s van-Walsh, John Solari-Zahm, and 
At stake is a $60.2 billion impact expires tomorro'· wng off-campus representative Indira appropriatio'ns bill for the Depart­with the fis~al1977 fundi., ... thor· Biswas (52742 W. Cyprus, South ment of Labor and the Department ization. Bend).of Health, Education and Welfare for fiscal year 1978. Current funding for those agencies runs out 
tomorrow, the end of fiscal year 
S U ufficials defend policy
1977. House Speaker Thomas P.
tore ; of 'pr t.?~~rential' tickets
O'Neill expressed confidence that the conference would reach an 
I 
[Continued from page 1] ting the tickets. 
WHITE TA VERNI agreement yesterday or today, tickets are a personal reward for Commenting on the reason whydespited several unsuccessful the amount of time that I work up SU members were among the onlyBLENDED attempts over the past three 
here." to receive preferential ticket treat­months.
WHISKEY I The current House position is McGrath, who needed only foot­ment, Deychakiwsky said, "It all boils down to the fact that the
that the government should pay for ball tickets, admitted that she s399 a fifth 1 abortions through the Medicaid would have been unable to stand in Stl'dent Union has more respon­
sibi ity than the HPC, especially in
program for the poor only when a line for the tickets had they not 
f1T1a Jcial matters." Deychakiwskywoman's life would be jeopardized been set aside for her. "If we by a full-term pregnancy. volunteer twenty hours a w•!ek ' 
·ctt d that last year's budget was ;5t,Joo.
Medicaid paid for about 300,000 the Union, then we shouhi g abortions last at a cost of $50 some type of reward," stater 'he 
Busch I 
K( rth also felt that there was
12 pack cans I million. comptroller. 
.,othng wrong in giving Union
The Senate position, which the
s29a I Social Commissioner Orest Deyc­officials some preferential treat­
House rejected Tuesday, is that the hakiwsky agreed with McGrath. ment since all students on thepoor should be eligible for federally 
I "We shouldn't be under attack for waiting list received tickets. "I
funded abortions in cases of rape, receiving some benefits," he said. don't think there wa.> an exorbitantPabst I incest or where medically neces­''There is nothing wrong with it. amount of tickets held back," she sary.
I The action is perfectly defen­said, "and I don't see any problem
Objections to this proposal are 
sible." with preferential treatment for SU12 pack cans I based on its "vagueness", which people since it has been done in
saoa opponents say would permit pay­Stating that he wouldn't have 1
past years."

I ments for abortions under almost accepted the tickets had he not any circumstances. been directly involved with the Such preferential treatment has
warm or cold 

I 
I Sen. Warren Magnuson, Homecoming week plans, Deyc­caused problems in the past, D-Wash., who hP.ads the Senate hakiwsky did admit that there were however. In October of 1973,
PRICES GOOD THRU SEPT. 24 
'conferees, has said that the sena­good reasons why Union officials Student Union Director Jim Rybar­I tors will drop their insistence on shouldn't have received preferen­cyk was impeached for holding1723 South Bend Ave,. the controversial "medically neces­tial ticket treatment. He felt, back 54 USC football tickets which 
...-t .• 
sary" phrasing if the House mem­however, that the hard work per­were then divided and sold among
tProprietors Jim-class of 63 Chuck-class of 65 '! ... 6 bers are willing to include exemp­formed by the officials without pay the Student Union and student tions for specific life-threatening was enough justification for accep-government" members.' ' • ·
~·-"·· .... ~-----------m' 
Urban Plunge 

Application deadline Oct. 5 
neighborhood youths,
[Continued from page 1) a nutrition 
center for senior citizens and an urban planning office. She also got 
The agenda of activities will vary from city to city. Participants the chance to "walk the streets" at night and saw New York in an

might see a criminal trial, tour a nursing home, take part in a entirely ~ifferent light. 
Mary McCormick, senior fromparish-\-un Neighborhood Outreach Program, tour a Juvenile Detention Cincinnati and a member of the Task Force for Urban Plunge,Center or visit a Welfare Office. "Each activity will give students 
stayed at the only integrated parish the chance to experience the things 
in Dayton, Ohio during her they read about in the classroom 
'plunge'. She visited boarding­and in newspapers," Frey com­houses for the elderly, a half-way mented. 
house for men and a relief center. The course was offered over the 
She saw families without food and past three Christmas breaks and clothes. enrollment has increased each year 
McCormick reflected , "You from 20 students in 1975 to 130 in can't leave the experience without 1977. 
being challenged to ask yourself, Junior Kathy Peters of Schnec­
'What do I do to create this tedy, NY spent two days in a parish 
situation and what can I do to help?' Poverty is not just in theon W. 51st St. in New York City, a ghettos of New York City, but isneighborhood better known as "Hell's Kitchen". 
close to home. My plunge made me see my home city in a new
"We stayed with three nuns in a tenement in the Spanish neighbor­light." 
McNeil suggested, "Some stu­hood. I anticipated seeing the worst conditions, but things dents might find a future in applying the knowledge and inte­
weren't as bad as the name 'Hell's Kitchen' implies," Peters stated. rest acquired while on Urban She added, "I talked to people who Plunge". 
Senior Barb Frey spent herhad an optimistic outlook for impro­

ving the poverty that we saw. Urban Plunge in Milwaukee. The Their main obstacle was limited experience sparked her interest funds." 
and she went on to work this past While in "Hell's Kitchen", 
summer on a community organiz­Peters visited a drug rehabilitation 
ing project in Oakland, CA. Frey stated, "I was awakened to thecenter, a community center for 
Arts and Letters Council opens three-day meeting 
by . Dave Brehl 
The College of Arts & Letters Advisory Council beg~ns 'its annual three-day fall meeting tonight with a dinner and an informal discussion w1tn ,tudent representatives at the Center for Continuing Education. The topic for this year's discussion is "The Impact of Competitive Pressures on Education at Notre Dame." Faculty members will discuss the same subject with the council tomorrow morning. 
The Arts & Letters Advisory Council is composed of alumni and friends of the University. Tradi­tionally, the fall meeting has given the council an opportunity to hear student, faculty, and administra­tive views on subjects pertinent to the College of Arts and Letters, and the University in general. 
Highlights of this year's meeting include the presentation of the Charles E. Sheedy award for excellence in education early to­morrow afternoon in Rooms 100-104 of the Center for Continu­ing Education. At 4 p.m. tomor­row, writer Paul Horgan will speak to the council in the Memorial Library Auditorium. This lecture is 
Bauer predicts budget change 
[Continued from page 1) million dollars when there is a $453 million surplus, especially since it will cut back services that we have and should continue." State Representative B. Patrick Bauer of South Bend said, "I think the budget will be changed at the Oct. 15 meeting. Earlier, a proposed cut in Medicaid to the elderly caused such a public reac­tion that the funds were rein­stated." "This is one way we can beat the budget agency and get back to the public interest," he added. After the meeting, one uniden­tified South Bend resident com­mented, "Boy! After three hours of listening to speeches and signing petitions, they ask us to write a letter to the governor. But, ifthat's what has to be done to get that money back, then that's what I'm going to do." "Tonight's response was mar­velous," remarked Sally Hamburg, a council member and parent of a retarded child. · "I think a lot of people will be surprised to see what 

also open to the pubhc. t-'ollowmg a dinner in the Memorial Library tomorrow evening, the Advisory Council's executive members will meet to hear the deans' report on the state of the College of Arts & Letters. ­
A memorial mass will be cele­brated Saturday morning at 8 a.m. in the Alumni Hall chapel, conclud­ing the council's three-day meet­ing. 
problems of the city and to their 
possible solutions. My stay was too 
brief to allow me to know it all, but 
I did get a real sense of what kind 
of involvement was needed to make 
the city better and decided to 
pursue the challenge." 
Applications for the course will be available to Notre Dame stu­dents in Room 330 O'Shaughnessy, in the Student Activities Office in · LaFortune and from dormitory representatives beginning this Fri­day. St. Mary's students can pick up applications in the Religious Studies Department office, Room 158 Madeleva. Deadline for com­
pleted applications is Oct. 5. 
On the application, the student is 
asked to list his first three choices 
of cities which he'd like to explore. 
Usually a student chooses an urban 
center close to his or her home 
because he must make transporta­
tion arrangements. Students are 
also asked to provide a motivational 
statement explaining why they 
want to take the Urban Plunge. 
Urban Plunge co-ordinators will 
then arrange for participants to 
meet with their CCUM contacts at 
the national CCUM conference to 
be held on camp_us from Oct. 30 
through NQv. 2. CCUM is a 
national network of over 3,000 
Catholics involved in social action 
~n American dties. 
Frey stated, ''The role of experi­
ential learning in undergraduate 
education is vital for any student. 
The experience can be beneficial to 
anyone. It gets the student out of 
the textbook and into the real 
world." 
·off-Campus ID's available 
All off-campus students without on-campus meal plans, who have temporary ID's that expired on Sept. 23 may exchange their tem­porary ID's for permanent ID's at the Office of the Registrar in Room 215 of the Administration Building. 
~~ SEE PRO BASKETBALL c ~~ .,.,~~ 
CLEVELAND CAVALIERS 
vs 

BUFFALO BRAVES 
(Pre-Season Game) Tomorrow Night 

-NOTRE DAME A.C.C. 
Tickets $4 -$5 · $6 Sale starts Monday Sept. 5 
A.C.C. Gate 10 Box Office 


NO S SMC Students $1.00 off with presentation of student 1.0. card. 
THE ND STUDENT UNION 
SOCIAL COMMISSION & THE BCAC PRESENT 
STARRING THE WIZ 
PROFESSIONALS 
INC. DISCOTEQUE 
OCT. 1 
10:30 to 2:00am 
IN THE NAZZ 
so CENT COVER CHARGE 


STArn FRIDAY 1:45-3:45-5:45-7:45-8:411 DON'T
Town & Country Shopping Center 
MISS 

Telephoner2 59-9090 ITI 

1 
St AN OUlRAGEOUS 
. MEALOF week MADNESS 
THIS MOVIE IS TOTAllY 
OUT OF CONTROL 

NED TOPHAM PRESENlS A KENlUCKY FRIED TiiEAlRE PRODUCTION ''lliE KENlUCKY FRIED M<NIE" Associate Producer lARRY KOSlROFF • Executive Producer KIM JORGENSEN Screenplay by JERRY ZUCKER JAMES ABRAHAMS. OO.VID ZUCKER Produced by ROBERT K WEISS • Directed by JOHN LANDIS RELEASED BY UNITED RLM DISTRIBlffiON COMPANY INC 
© 1977 KFMRLMS. INC ~
lRI 

Now a PLITT THEATRE STARTS FRIDAY 
~RIVER PARI< 7:30-9:30 
Mishawaka Avenue at 3Qth 

''AllEGRO NON TROPPO'' 
is not one of those ''foreisn '~rt' fi 1ms·.:._ 1t'~ an animated feature-A hilarious 
parody of ''fANTASIA''/ 
(Some people so sofar 
as to say· it t1as the best animation in the last !Q. ~ears!) 
. Bruno Bozzetto's 

Allegro NonTroppo 
(don,t let the namefool you) 


the im.~~~,_ot~~~ ..J?,~f!t!Jts, ~'n b~/:.-"-'· ~~~'!"!'1'~~~~~~--~--.-~·:.."!'!':"J~L-·~·J•.?-!'J~~~..r.-._,~.~.~-_,.,..,,).,!IJil,..,ll.ol\i~~~~~--.M"'-"•iioiii'~.-~,.,'!P.!~~!fl'tl!~~~~ 
seriously,· folks!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
EDITORIAL BOARD an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's Marti Hogan Editor-in-Chief 
,.*The Observer 
The Press
Martha Fanning Managing Editor 
The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters ·are the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and letters are encouraged to promote the free expression of varying 
opinions on campus.  
Business Manager Advertising Manager Production Manager  Sue Quigley Steve Bonomo Karen Chiames  BoxQ Notre Dame Ind. 46556  

Bob Brink Asst. Managing Ed Kathy Mills Executive Editor Maureen Flynn Editorial Editor Barb Breitenstein Exec. News Editor Jean Powley St. Mary's Editor Katie Kerwin News Editor Barb Langhenry News Editor Paul Stevenson Sports Editor Pat Cole Special Projects Ed. David O'Keefe Features Editor 
Copy Editor Joan Fremeau Photo Editor Leo Hansen 

Dear Editor: 
Quote from Monday's Observor: 
"The University, Roemer said, 
reasoned that students did not 
perform well under the stress of 
hearing another student's case and 
that problems of confidentiality 
arose with students hearing 
cases." 
I can't begin to express my appreciation to "The University" (Circa Orwell 1984) for declaring myself and every other student incompetent. Apparently there is something about a Notre Dame student which negates his ability to function objectively. I haven't been able to discern it; it must be of such ephemeral character that only those of supreme wisdom (i.e. the Administration and Board of Trus­tees) can sense it . In order to save us from the horror that is our­selves, student exclusion is "non­negotiable." 
Come, come. I have done enough student association work to know that there are hundreds of college judicial boards, not unlike that at Notre Dame, which have student members and (HERESY!) are completely effective! So why the problem here? It wouldn't have anything to do with the AI Hunter fiasco ... 
Or would it? 
In an institution by design open­minded and tolerant, this situation is incredulous. The contention that a student is not competent to judge his peers and equals objectively contradicts the fact that 18 year­olds vote and sit on "real-life" juries. Granted, we are only students at the University, but if t!tis"non-negotiable" position rep­resents the better judgement we arc subject to , then God save us from our captor 
I can only hope that the Univers­ity reconsiders this travesty and put students back in the process. 
Lyle Staab 
Dear Editor: 
This is an open letter to the Notre Dame-St. Mary's community: 
Have you ever heard of the Notre Dame-St. Mary's Council for the Retarded? I'm sure many of you have heard of our group, but how many of you understand exactly 
so f{}(l/{) OL.'TWOY 
6tT7H£ ~ REVOWTKJN ~UNDER. WAY, 
what our group does? We provide 
programs whereby students at 
Notre Dame and St. Mary's can 
interact with retarded children and 
adults in the South Bend area. The 
situation can be educational, thera­
peutic, social or recreational. 
But, as most of you know, recently there was a cut-back in the state funds for the mentally retard­ed and developmentally disabled throughout the state. After attend­ing a meeting last night, concerned parents and citizens are ready to challenge this decision. Our hope is that you will join in this fight to get these funds reallocated. 
Without these funds, the . Notre Dame-St. Mary's Council for the Retarded cannot go on. The St. Joseph County Council for the Retarded predicts that all recrea­tional services will be drastically reduced, thereby eliminating al­most all of the programs that our students volunteer in. The specific programs to be eliminated will be our Saturday recreation program, basketball, cub scouts, boy scouts, girl scouts, bowling, and monthly dances. All of us who volunteer in these programs realize how impor­tant these activities are to the children and adults. But we, as volunteers, still cannot imagine how all of our efforts can be washed away by the stroke of a budget committee. 
That is why we need your help at this time. We are asking you to look beyond your campus life and show your individual concern for the mentally retarded of this state. Please, we only ask that you write and express your feelings against this recent cut-back in funds for the mentally retarded and develop­mentally disabled. Every letter willhelp and after you get a letter written, make sure that everyone else that you know has done the same. Write to: 
Govenor Otis Bowen Senator John Murtz Representative William Long 
Mr. John Huie 
c/o State House 
Indianapolis Indiana 46204 
Also, if you are interested, please sign the petition that is going around campus and if you want to go down to Indianapolis on Oct. 12 and march against this decision, sign the rally sheet and we'll contact you by phone with all the details. All off campus 
students may sign the petition in 

the  Volunteer  services  office  in  
LaFortune.  
•  Art Koebel  
_  Jeanne Conboy  

Notre Dame-St. Mary's Council for the Retat:_ded 
Dear Editor: 
Notre Dame is known worldwide as a friendly and giving commu­nity. However, there is one thing which we can all do to make it a more closely-knit Christian society. This is to improve our attitude toward the personnel here. The maintenance men, landscapers, cafeteria workers, maids, and other employees of the University do not get the recognition which they deserve. They are nice and dependable people who work hard to keep us happy. 
One person who typifies the N.D. worker is Alfred Belardes. "AI" is a cook at the north dining hall. His duty is to come in early each day to prepare lunch and to stay late until after dinner is finished. Brian Flood, a student worker, notes that ''AI is a hard worker who is liked by 

everyone." AI really cares about 
Notre Dame and its students, and 
he shows it during his free time 
too. "Often", says AI, "I'll take my two boys fishing here in the lake, or go to a movie with my wife at the engineering building." AI also has a few cookouts each year for student workers. 
Yet very often our cafeteria personnel and other employees don't get the response that they should. But regardless, they still take care of our dirty wastebaskets and sinks. In the winter they freeze while chipping away at icy side­walks. They are also around to clean dirty classrooms and to mop up the caf after food fights. However, their patience and love for us is not returned on pay day. None of them make a mint working at N.D. But surely what they do earn will be enhanced by a proper show of appreciation for them by everyone. 
Russ O'Brien 

and the CIA 
iiiiiiiiiii~~iiiiiiiiiiiiiii~~art buchwald 
WASIDNGTON--Carl Bernstein's 
revelation that 400 members of the 
press were also working, in some 
way. for the CIA overseas in the 
1950's and 1960's has made every 
newspaperman who was statione 
abroad suspect. 
I worked in Paris for 14 years for 
the International Edition of the 
Herald Tribune and, ever since the 
story broke, even I have been asked · 
if I was involved in any overt or 
covert operations concerning our 
most famous secret service. 
The answer is, · "Not to my knowledge." I'm fairly sure of it because the salary the Paris Herald Tribune gave me was way below the prevailing CIA rates for repor­ters, and I have to believe the chintzy Herald Tribune manage­ment was paying me out of its own pocket. 
I should have had some suspi­cions, even in those days, that several of my colleagues were working for somebody beside the papers they pretended to be accre­dited to. 

One American friend was living in an 18-room villa in Vienna, with .three servants and a chauffeur. I never could understand it, because the only paper he was working for, at the time, was a weekly magazine published in Terre Haute, Ind. 
I once asked him about his elegant lifestyle, and he replied, "The Terre Haute publisher believes its overseas bureau chiefs should live well." 
I should have smelled something fishy when he once asked me to take an article he had written back to Paris and hide it in a tree near the American Embassy. 
"Is that how you file your stories?" I asked. 
"Yes," he replied. "It's much faster than sending them over the teletype." 
"But the article is .on micro­film," I said. 
He got angry. "Look, you file your stories the way you want to, but don't tell me how to file mine." 
Possibly one of the reasons the CIA never sought to recruit me is 
that they may have thought I would 
not make a very good agent. 
I recall going to Carlsbad in 
Czechoslovakia for a film festival in 
the 1950's. When I returned, I had 
a visit in my office from two very 
well-dressed men who said they 
were from the Dulles Broadcasting 
Company in Waco, Texas. They 
told me they were unable to attend 
the film festival and asked if I 
would brief them on it. 
I said, "Certainly, what do you want to know?" 
"How many anti-aircraft guns did you see around the festival hall?" 
"None that I can remember," I said. "There were searchlights at the film festival, but there always are." 
"Were there any land mines 
near your hotel?" the other one 
asked. 
"Beats me," I said. "I didn't see anyone step on one." "How many Soviet divisions did 
you see?" 
"You mean in the films?" 
"No, you dummy. Real Soviet divisions with armor." "Hey, what's that got to do with a film festival?" I asked. "It's hopeless, Joe," one of them sa:id as he got up. 
The other one got up, too. "I told the Company we'd be wasting o11r time." And they stomped out. 
Had it occurred to me I was being tested, I certainly would have been more co-operative. But in those days I really believed there was a Dulles Broadcasting Com­pany in Waco, Texas. Heaven knows I could have used the extra CIA money. 
I don't know which of my fellow correspondents worked for the CIA and which didn't. But in the late '40's and 'SO's I played a lot of poker with them. And I know suspect several of them were more than they said they were. How do I know? Well, some of them used to stay in the hand to the very end, with a pair of two's. It dawned on me just the other day that only a guy on a CIA payroll could afford to do that. 
OR. AMAIXJI?. MeT8UNAU-VM!IJ.A 
AT THE OW fAIAUXJRF--A570RJA/ 71-IERE H£ t/J45 611/CN II(}(), (X){} S1Z0 m-1£'/, A CON5TI7lfT!ON, ANO 7He NW PIINAMANIAN FlAG, 7HOiJGHT:.. 
FIJUY SBAJN 8Y MA/JAMe 

BACK Hc 14/e.tr 70 PANAMA/ WITH TH£ S!MiftTJIN£0l/5 ARRI­
I/4L OF TH/3 0.5.5. "NASHV//..L/3," 
711£ Pl.UCI<Y PANAMANIANS REALIZEO A OR13AM 7!1&Y 
HAFWL.Y KN/3/JJ THEY 
SHAREJ)f '­
Dear Editor: 
This is in response to the column "Feeding th~ Flame" which ap­peared in The Observer last Thurs­day. I feel the column written by Mr. Zorn was too narrow in its 
perspective. 

When President Marcos dec­lared Martial Law in 1972, the country was in great economic and political chaos. Under the given circumstances, Martial Law was the only posible constitutionally­provided method of restoring order 
to the coun~ry. 
The nation as a . whole has progressed significantly under the guidance of Mr. Marcos. Foreign bank loan have increased, the tourism industry is booming, for­eign investment is up, and the level of national consciousness and pride among the Filipino people is pres­ently where it had never before 
I WISH I fAJERE, OL' 
been realized. 
As a proud citizen of this developing country, I do not be­lieve that the overall progress and prosperity our country has exper­ienced in recent years could ever have come about under a leader who engaged in "unlawful and 
inhuman activites." 
l feel that the blanket statements on Mr. Marcos government were grossly unfair. True, some of his activites are opposed by the Fil­pino people themselves, and, as in the case of the "prisoners of conscience," are extremely ques­tionable. But government leaders of all states make mistakes. 
I object to Mr. Zorn's use of Senorita Buenaventura's case to paint an overall picture of the Philippine government. It is an unfair portrayal of a government that has undergone traumatic con­vulsions in the wake of the rise of communism, political corruption, and overall panic among the civ­ilians. Our governemt is slowly picking itself up and striving hard to attain normalcy. Often in our struggle we make mistakes but then we also realize progress. We have made significant improvements to­
wards regaining a normal republic under Mr. Marcos, and it really hurts to have our closest ally, the United States of America, criticize and condemn whatever mistakes we have made, instead of encour­

aging  us by pointing  out  our  
strengths.  
Andrew P. Gotuaco  

----~~-~-~------~~--~ 
--~~---~--~------------~----~-----------­
.. 

University receives endowment for English Literature collection 
The largest endowment ever the Memorial Library Auditorium. The couple underwrote the costs of Horgan, widely acclaimed as the
given the University's Memorial the 11-story granit mural, "Christ Library will be inaugurated Friday, as Teacher", which adorns the
chronicler of the American South­
Sept. 30 as the Howard and west, received the 1955 Pulitzer building's facade. The Howard V. Evangeline Phalin Collection of Phalin Foundation for Graduate
Prize for "Great River", the story
English Literature. Study has also supported post-bac­
of the role of the Rio Grande in 
Honored in a series of events on calaureate students at Notre Dame 
North American history. 21 years campus will be Mr. and Mrs. later he was honored again for for several years. 
Howard V. Phalin of Wilmette, lll., "Lamy of Sante Fe", a biography Phalin, a 1928 graduate of the longtime University benefactors of Archbishop Jean Baptiste Lamy. University, was associated for 35 
who recently established a library 

Horgan, who received a Notre years with Field Enterprises Edu­endowment devoted to the pur­
Dame honorary degree in 1958 and cational Corporation and its prede­chase of books in the area of did some ofthe research for "Lamy cessors, publishers of The World English literature. The size of in the University Archives, recently Book Encyclopedia and other edu­
Phalin endowment was not 

completed his forty-first book, cational materials. He became announced, although University "The Thin Mountain Air", a novel executive vice president of the 
officials said it was the largest in just published by Farrar, Straus & company in 1957, president in history to the library. 
-Giroux. 1964, chairman of the board and A public lecture by author Paul 
The book endowment is the chief executive officer in 1966, and Horgan, twice winner of the Pulit­second major contribution of the he retired in 1968. 
zer Prize and 1976 Laetare Medal­

Phalins to Notre Dame's Memorial 
Appointed to the Universityist at Notre Dame, will open Library, opened in 1963 as the Advisory Council for the College of inaugural festivities at 4:15p.m. in 
world's largest collegiate library. 
Arts and Letters in 1962, he became a University trustee in 1964 and last year accepted membership 
on the Notre Dame Library Council. "Notre Dame's library, a top priority in University development, 
Scandinavian Seminar 
accepting applications 
has been aided enormously by the 
Scandinavian Seminar is now the student's own field ofinterest. .generous Phalin Endowment,'' accepting applications for its study An increasing number of American Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, abroad program in Denmark, Fin­colleges and universities are giving C.S.C., Notre Dame's president, · land, Norway, or Sweden for the full or partial credit for the Seminar said. "We hope to endow the 
academic year 1978-79. This year. library needs of otf'ier University living-and-learning· experience is The fee, covering tuition, room, academic units in a similar designed for college students, board, one-way group transpor­fashion.." graduates and other adults who tation from New 'York and all A year ago, the University want to become part of another course-connected travels in Scan­announced the Alfred R. and Lee culture while acquiring a second dinavia is $3,800. A limited Abrams Collection in Hebrew and language. number of scholarship loans are Jewish Studies, and earlier this 
An initial 3 weeks language available. month the National Endowment for course, followed by a family stay For further information write to: the Humanities awarded Notre whenever possible, will give the Scandinavian Seminar, 100 East Dame a $400,000 matching grant student opportunity to practice the 35th St .. New Yor, NY 10028 for library development. 
share in the life of the community. 

language on· a daily basis and to ··························••(
For the major part of the year he is separated from his fellow American students, living and studying a­mong Scandinavians at a "People's College" (residential school for continuing adult education) or some other specialized institution. 
All Seminar students participate in the introductory, midyear, and final sessions, where matters re­lated to their studies, experiences 

STYLES OF ATHLETIC SHOES
and individual progress are re­viewed and discussed. The focus of the Scandinavian Seminar program is an independent study project in TENNIS WEAR 
MONTGOMERY, A WORLD LEADER IN ELEVATORS AND ESCALATORS, WILL CONDUCT INTERVIEWS ON THIS CAMPUS 

Tuesday, October 11 , 1977 . 
CAREER POSITIONS IN VERTICAL TRANSPORTATION SALES/MANAGEMENT WILL BE DISCUSSED WIT-H DEGREE CANDIDATES IN BUSINESS AND ENGINEERING 
FOR MORE INFORMATION ABOUT 
MONTGOMERY AND OUR UPCOMING 
VISIT TO YOUR CAMPUS, CONTACT 
YOUR PLACEMENT OFFICE. 
montgomery moves people
ontiiOmer 
Montgomery Elevator Company, Moline, Illinois 61265 


• Montgomery Elevator Co., Limited, Toronto, Ontario M983S5/ Offices in principal cities of North America 

Yeandel to study in West Germany 
Orien Yeandel, a 1976 graduate of Notre Dame and the son of Mr. and Mrs. Frank Yeandel, 325 North Shore Drive, South Bend, has been awarded a Konrad Adenaurer Fel­lowship by the West German government. The award is similar to a Rhodes Scholarship and recog­nizes academic achievement and future potential. 
A Hoosier Scholar four years at Notre Dame, where he majored in marketing, Yeandel received a partial scholarship at the Univer­sity of Southern California where he was awarded a graduate degree in international management at the June commencement. 
Yeandel plans to use his fellow­

WARM UP SUITS SWIM WEAR &T -SHIRTS ATHLETIC BAGS 
100 CENTER 
255-7770 

MISHAWAKA 

ship to pursue postgraduate work in the area of international market­ing management at the University of Munich. 
Two cushions, 
-oak table taken 
from LaFortune 
Two black naugahyde cushions were stolen off the backs of chairs in the LaFortune Student Center on Sunday, Sept. 18. The cushions are· 24" X 16" X 4". 
A light oak table with a heavy metal base was taken from the first floor of LaFortune, Room 1 D, on Thursday, Sept. 22. This table is 18" X 36". 
-lhe managem~nt ci LaFortune asks cooperation in the return of these articles "so all students and university guests may use them." 

~------~--------~ -­

The Commons 
across from Corby's 
826 Eddy 233-0875 
Italian Pizza Italian Sandwiches 
Monday-Saturday ­10:30am-1 :OOam 
Carry out-Pizza &·Uquor (formerly Cliff's) 
I,---------------~\ 
I
I EARN EXTRA $$$$$ 
I 

I 
I COLONIAL CATERERS at the new CENTURY1 CENTER needs 150 part-time staff. Morning, afternoon and evening work. Hourly wages.I Waiters, watiresses and kitchen help. Prior1 experience helpful but not necessary. Write, including age and hours available to: ColonialI Caterers, 121 South Michigan, South Bend, Indiana, 46601. Application forms also available at the office. Do not phone. \ An Equal Opportunity Employer 
~---------------""" 

, 
Mechanical and civil en· gineering majors ... areo· space and aeronautical en· gineering majors ... majorsin electronics ... computerscience ... mathematics. 
The Air Force needs peo­ple ... many with the above academic majors. And AFROTC has several differ· ent programs where you can fit ... 4-year, 3-year, or 2-year programs. Some of· fering full scholarships. All offering $100 a month allowance during the last two years of the program.Flying opportunities. And all leading to an Air Force offi­cers commission, plus ad­vanced education. 
If you'd like to cash in on these Air Force benefits, start by looking into the Air Force ROTC. 

Contact Capt. Davis at 283-663.4. 
Put it all together in /, ir· Force ROTC. 
I
I I I

1·
I
I I I 
I
1 

Longevity linked to soil, activity 
WNDON [AP] -Could the key to long life be growing your own vegetables and living in a tiny English coastal village called Upper Sheringham? 
The village in Norfolk County, about 115 miles northeast of Lon­don, has three times as many elderly residents as the average throughout the rest of Britain. The oldest resident is 103 and there are plenty over 75. 
A doctor thinks the answer could lie in the soil. 
"After carrying out tests I found the soil in Upper Sheringham is rich in the trace minerals of iron, calcium, selenium and chromium, which are digested by residents who grow their own root vege­tables," said Dr. David M. Davies, a specialist in aging. 
Davies, 47, said that in 1971 while researching longevity among the people of southern Ecuador's Vileabamba Valley he found similar elements in the soil. He also found the people there had no record of heart disease. 
The doctor remembered the study when a group of doctors in the Sheringham area sent him age details of their patients. 
Davies, who works at London's St. Pancras Hospital, told The Associated Press in an interview that the older residents of Upper Sheringham, which has a popula­tion of 300, are physically and 
mentally  active  and  most  plant  
their  own  gardens  in  a  mild,  
seaside climate.  
"Their  diet  and  1 these  other  

factors could be the reason for 15 percent of the villagers being aged over 75, compared with 11 percent elsewhere in the county of Norfolk and a British national average of 5 percent," Davies said. 
Herbert Lock, 59, a municipal official in the resort town of Sheringham, three miles from the village, told of a Derbyshire miner named William Joynes whose doc­tor gave him a year to live when he retired to Sheringham at the age of 
64. "He turned 92 the other day," Lock added. 
Davies said his classic example of longevity at Upper Sheringham 

Financial aid: a'rough' trip 
[CPS]--Any student relying on financial aid can tell you: it's a rough trip. 
With one out of every six graduates defaulting on their stu­dent loans, banks have adopted stringent guidelines and more stu­dents are discovering that once at their destination it is becoming increasingly difficult to pay for the cost of that trip. 
In many cases across the coun­
try, banks are cutting their student 
loans by up to 70 percent. Others 
have ended their loan programs 
altogether. The federal govern­
ment, having insured bank losses 
against default under the Federally 
Insured Student Loan (FISL) pro­
gram, is also toughening its 
approach to collection. 
The agency handling the loans is 
in the process of contracting \\jth a 
private collection agency. By the 
end of the year, the Office of 
Education (OE) will turn over 
50,000 overdue accounts on a 
commission-for-funds collected 
basis. 
Maury Tansey, a special assis­tant to the associate Guaranteed Student Loan (GSL) commissioner, explained the decision to the Higher Education Dally: "The volume of defaults . . . has continued to increase and we have been unable to match that increase with an increase in our collections resources." 
Because hiring has been spora­dic, Tansey says OE has not been able to keep up with the work. According to a recent General Accounting Office report, by the end of fiscal 1977, OE will have paid out $436.5 million on bad debts. That is up by about four times the $136 million OE had to pay out to banks in 1974. 
The increase in defaults has been attributed to the economic depres­sion of the past few years. Students graduating with BA's, MA's and Phd's have found their; education is. not a job guarantee. Another factor is the lack of information banks and college financial aid offices give to stu­dents taking loans. Students are not fully aware of the implications of taking a loan or of the options available for repayment such as 
Students must move cars before Saturday 
Students assigned parking spaces in lots C;:3 •. C-4 and D-2 must move their cars to Green Field'by 8 a.m. the morning of all home football games or their cars will be towed away. Parking will also not be allowed in the A-1 lot, the Morris Inn lot or the Center for Continuing Education lots. 
hardship clauses. 
The major source of default lies 
not with the students but with 
vocational and proprietary schools 
who comprise over SO percent of 
the default claims filed by banks. 
Many FISL recipients find that they 
are liable for the loans although 
their vocational school closed down 
or a training institute overrated job 
opportunities and that particular 
job market is flooded. One way to 
cut down on such defaults would be 
for the government to enact stricter 
licensing procedures. 
Banks are protecting themselves 
their way. Bank of America (the 
main conduit for California stu­
dents seeking FISL money) will not 
loan to students entering vocational 
schools. Neither will it loan to 
junior college or first year students. 
Bank of America also lowered its 
maximum award from $2500 in 
1976 to $1500 this year. Trust 
Company of Georgia will loan to 
students with a one year minimum 
account with ;t. Some banks, such 
as Security Pacific National of 
California Jo.. ns only to students 
who have previously held loans 
from them. Successful applicants 
may not hold loans with other 
banks. Security Pacific National 
also decreas..!d its student loan 
activity by SO percent since 1976. 
You have to dot every 'i' and cross every 't' to collect for the government," says Lu Steiner of Bank of America's Social Policy Department. The bank must be very careful about properly proces­~ing applications and documenting their efforts in collecting from defaulters. Even then, according to James Kopley, manager of New York Citibank's student loan divi­sion, "it takes us from six to nine months to collect from the govern­ment." 
OE has taken other steps aside from contracting with a private collection agency. HEW Secretary Joseph Califano has consolidated seven loan programs into one program which will hopefully end duplicated effort and waste. 
HEW is also encouraging state governments to act as guarantor agencies. There are 26 states which now act as guarantors and results have been positive. Banks deal directly with the state and the federal government insures 80 percent of the loan money. 
The bent:fits are better manage­ment at state level and less red ~ape, insuring quicker processing 
)f student applications and collec­
ions on defaults. 
State guarantor agencies may eventually make the trip easier for students. Citibank reported it has increased its student loan activity by 23 percent this year. Manager Kopley cites a low 3. 7 percent default rate for his bank compared to 12.3 percent nationally estima­ted for the 1977-78 fiscal year. 
is the oldest inhabitant, 103-year­old Frederick Cornelius, a former vegetable grocer who daily does 
the  shopping  for  some  of  his  
friends.  
Dr. John H. Arbuthnot,  a  local  

physician in a three-man practice at Sherinham,said 30 percent of their 7,250 patients are over 65 and of those, 11 percent are over 75. 
"The main cause of death is respiratory disease, especially after a damp winter. We have no factories and no smog, very low rainfall and mild winter tempera­tures. There are low hills about a mile inland and the snow stops there," he said. 
Davies said his studies showed most old people are linked with the land. "I think the heart of the matter is the soil and in continuing activity. The oldest man I knew, who died aged 106, was a farm worker. 
MOLARITY 
HI I'H J1M HOLE AND TH/5 /5 
11Y RooHHATE, C/IUCK !1ASON SINCE' WE'ffF 5UITF!1ATt5 /t1/[ FluUffff) weD !NTF<ODUCE 







-...........,. ......... -.. ... " ...... ' .. 'J' ~ '"-. ··-• "\.,. 
Thursday, September 29, 1977
10 the observer 

Senate adjourns after compromise on gas plan 
W ASIDNGTON [API -The Senate adjourned last night without voting on natural gas legislation after a 37-hour session that resulted in a compromise that could break a nine-day Senate impasse. 
The Senate planned to begin work this morning on a compromise offered by Majority Leader Robert 
C. Byrd and Sen. Henry M. Jackson, D-Wash., chairman ofthe Senate Energy Committee. 
At issue is a critical portion of President Jimmy Carter's energy plan allowing for higher natural gas prices at the wellhead, but provid­ing for continued federal controls. 
The Senate Democratic leader­ship hopes the new compromise will be acceptable to supporters and opponents of deregulated gas. 
Jackson reportedly won over a handful of senators whose votes could make a difference. 

Before taking up the Jackson proposal, however, the Senate must vote on a complicated parlia­mentary tactic designed to get the proposal to the floor. That tactic would allow a clear-cut Senate vote on the issue of natural gas deregu­lation. 
While retaining federal controls on natural gas, the Jackson com­promise would allow producers to charge more for gas than called for under President Carter's energy plan. Under the key proposal made Wednesday, it also would permit greater quantities of gas to qualify for the same higher prices. 
Sen. James Abourezk, S-S.D., one of two filibuster leaders, reportedly has said he will back the 

we are happy to be part of the 

TheNow PrintersTM neighborhood FAST PRINTING 
resumes•term papers•flyers 
announcements • transparencies 
on U.S. 31 one block south of Wendy's 
5 minutes from campus 277-3355 
open Fri. & Sat. till 
Midnight 
Pabst s579 
case 
Busch s579 
case 
Strohs s519 
case 
Falstaff S269 
12 pack (bottles) 
s269
Blatz 
12 pack (bottles) 
Hammss1 59 six pack 
vOC/(~ 
LIQUOR ~0 R\..Q 
Old Chicago 
$149 
6 packs 
Schlitz 
$f69 
6 pack 

Strohs Rum$498 
qt
16oz case 

Scotch$539
$687 
qt 

Vodka$399
Miscellaneous qt Cases of Beer 
Gin $419 $385 
2128 South Bend Ave. 
proposal. The other leader, Sen. Howard Metzenbaum, D-Ohio, said he may. Both men have vigorously fought both higher prices and an end to deregulation. 
But the Jackson proposal is also designed to appeal to Senate deregulation forces because it allows more gas to be sold at higher prices. 
As word of the compromise proposal spread, Senate Majority Leader Robert C. Byrd interrupted an around-the-clock Senate filibus­ter to allow further meeting between opposing sides. 
Metzenbaum said as a result of Jackson's actions, "There have been some switches. But it's still going to be very close." 
Metzenbaum said before Jack son's compromise proposal may be voted on, the deregulation plan sponsored by Sen. Lloyd Bentsen, D-Tex., and James B. Pearson, R-Kan., must be set aside. 
The senator said he and Abour­ezk would call off their filibuster long enough for an attempt to defeat the Pearson-Bentsen plan. 
The filib.uster has slowed other congressional business, and Byrd said earlier, "I find a growing desire to get to a vote." 
Byrd said there would be no repeat of Tuesday's all-night ses­sion, the first since the civil rights debates of the 1960's, although the Senate would continue meeting until late Wednesday night. 
Earlier, Abourezk and Metzen­baum had vowed to block a vote on the deregulation of natural gas prices by the unusual device of calling up about 500 amendments, one after the other for Senate action. 
With the exception of a two-hour breakfast break, the Senate had been in session since 9 a.m. Tuesday. 
At issue is a critical portion of President Jimmy Carter's energy plan allowing for higher natural gas prices at the wellhead, but provid­ing for continued federal controls. 
Late Tuesday, Carter administra­tion officials said they would agree to a compromise natural gas price ceiling of $2.03 per thousand cubic feet, a 28 cent increase of $1. 75, the original price in the energy plan. 
The price is currently fixed at $1.46. 
On the only real test vote so far, the Senate indicated tentative although narrow support for an industry backed deregulation plan sponsored by Sens. Lloyd Bentsen, D-Tex., and James B. Pearson, R-Kan. 
Abourezk and Metzenbaum say 

they hope to switch enough votes to 
prevent the Senate from lifting 
price controls. But if they succeed 
in preventing any vote on natural 
gas, the present $1.46 ceiling will 
remain in place. 
As the sun rose over the Capitol, 

Byrd declared, "We've had about 
enough of this foolishness." 
Senate decorum was set aside 

and there were periodic flashes of 
anger by senators irritated at the 
tactics of Abourezk and Metzen­
baum. 
Sen. Ted Stevens, R-Alaska, 

said, "If I did what they did, my 
constituents wouldn't let me come 
back again." 
In fact Abourezk faces no politi­

cal risk because he is not running 
for re-election. Metzenbaum is a 
millionaire with a long record of 
voting against the big oil and gas . companies. 
During the around-the-clock ses­

sion, cots were set up in adjoining 
rooms for ~enators to grab a few 
minutes sle·<!p between roll calls. 
At about 5 a.m., Byrd carried a blanket to the door of the Senate chamber, dropped it to the floor, walked in long enough to vote and retrieved th~ blanket on the way back to his cot. 
Center announces staff changes 
The Center for the Study of Man Huckfeldt recently completed his statistical applications and compu­
in Contemporary Society at Notre Ph.D. in political science at Wash-ter programming in the SSTRL 
Dame is announcing several key ington University, St. Louis. His since 1971. 
staff changes this year. work is in mathematical models Michael G. Lilienthal, who com-
Professor Paul M. Mellema wm and statistics, and urban politics. pleted his doctoral work in Psycho-
replace Professor Edward Manier He holds a University appointment logy at Notre Dame this Septem­
as Coordinator for Faculty as Assistant Faculty Fellow in ber, will assume his responsibii-
Researchand Sponsored Programs. Sociology and will also serve as the ities. Lilienthal's areas of research 
Manier m associate professor of University's official representative include magnitude estimation and 
Philosophy, will be on one-year to the Inter-University Consortium psychophysiological measurement. 
leave of absence froJlt the Univer-. for Political and Social Research. He has also served as a graduate 
sity while attending a National Kook-Ching Huber has resigned student intern in the SSTRL. 
Endowment for the Humanities as Assistant Professional Specialist The Social Science Training and 
Institute at the Uni'v'ersity of Chi-to become a supervisor in a Research Laboratory will be exten­
cago. research team studying the econo-ding its training program this year 
The coordinator's position was mics of health care for Blue to include modular course offereing 
created in 1975 and has been held Cross-Blue Shield of Indiana. She in statistics directed to social 
by Manier for a two-year term. The will move to Indianapolis on Oct. 1. science and humanities graduate 
coordinator assists fa~ulty, especi-She has been a consultant on students. 
ally in the College of Arts and 
Letters, in developing proposals for ••••••••••••••••••••••ti 
external grant support. Mellema, • an assistant professor of Philosphy • is a specialist in logic and has developed a computer-assisted • instructional system in courses in • logic. • 
C. Lincoln .Johnson, assisstant professor of Sociology, will succeed • Bobby J. Farrow as Director of the. Social Science Training and • Research Laboratory (SSTRL). Farrow, an associate professor of. Psychology, will return to full-time • teaching in that department having • served as director of the SSTRL since 1972. Johnson is a specialist e 
~~y~~~:~~~1 methods and social : Directing the newly established Social Science Data Archive with • the SSTRL is R. Robert Huckfeldt. • 
"  •  
•  
•  
•  
•  
•  
•  
•  
•  
•  
Specia/  10% Discount  • e  
On All Merchandise To Notre Dame  :  
- & Saint Mary's Students.  •  

OKTOBERFEST '77 
Donnerstag Sept. 29 
4:30pm-German Dinner 6:15pm-Band & skits -SMC Dining Hall-6:30pm-Hall decorating contest judging 
8:OOpm-Gil Eagles psychic & hypnotist Angela Athletic 
Facility $1.00 
Freitag Sept. 30 
llam-1 pm-Games -outisde SMC dining hall­
3pm-6pm-Happy Hour the Ubrary $.50-drinks 
9pm-1-BIERGARTEN & Dance with Sahara Regina Hall 
Groucho Marx look-alike contest. 

Samstag Oct. I 
11 am-1 pm-Pre-game Party Campus View Club House 
**** raffle for stereo ** Balloons **** T-Shirts *** 
sponsored by SMC Social Commission 


... ~------~----...........-----­Thursday, Septembe.;;..;r_;:29~,1.:.::9..:..;77~--,---t!!.!h.!.!e~o~b~s~e!!!!rv~e~r_-.....J.1_j1 
Strategy 
classified ads
·:;:;:;:;:;:;:;::=:=::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::::;:::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;::=====:=:=:::::::::=:::::=:=:=:::=:::=:======~::::=::;:;:;: Cont'd 
Defensively, Michigan State will not be in the usual 5-2 that the Irish have faced in the past three weeks. Michigan State sets up in a defensive formation like that of pro footall's Oakland Raiders. The Spartans employ three down lineman spearheaded by big, bad Larry Bether at tackle. In the middle, Tim Rowekamp provides a formidable roadblock at 6-2, 250. Rowekamp was a standout two years ago but a knee injury slowed him up last year. The Spartans have seven regulars back from last year1 a strong nucleus, but only one, Jerome Stanton is in the defensive backfield. 
Specialists: Kevin Muno punted admirably against the Boilers last week and will handle the chores again this week. Dave Reeve just keeps going along, he has five field goals on the year to date and seems certain to top his record total of 11 early this year. 
Hans Neilsen handles the place kicking chores for MSU and he accounted for the Spartans' only scores on two field goals in last years' Irish win at East Lansing. Freshman Ray Stachowicz is averaging 37 yards a punt for the Spartans. The only question mark in the specialty teams will be the punting of Muno and Stachowicz which.will play a big role if the defenses dominate. 
Analysis: Former Irish star George Connor made an interesting point in analyzing the Irish before Saturday's game at Purdue. He remarked that the Irish may have seemed flat in their first three encounters because they hadn't played in front of the hometown crowd. Last year a Sports Dlustrated writer hypothesized that the fans were worth a "T.D. in South Bend". This will be Michigan State's first road game of the season so a rowdy crowd will have an even bigger effect that normal. 
The Spartans have the type of team that gives defensive coaches nightmares. They run and pass with equal proficiency and have the big-play potential. The ability of the Irish defense to "control" the situation as not to let the Spartans show off all of their talents will be essential. 
But. the key to the game will be the insertion of Montana into the starting line-up. His arm looks stronger now than it was before he suffered a shoulder separation a year ago. With Montana at the helm the Irish offense seems to come alive, to be a step quicker. The Irish'will have to be a step quicker in every phase of the game on Saturday to beat what will be a fired-up Spartan squad. 
With a new starting quarterback and a visiting team with a high-powered offense, the fans will see a game that is sure to be a beaut, Montana. 

NQTICES 

Typing. Call Carolyn 232·9001. 
TRACE YOUR ROOTS with the "Family Tree Kit." All necessary materials In· eluded. Great gift ldaa. Call Cathy Murray 4-5454. 
Typlgn. Reasonable 1'11111. Call 8051. 
Accurate, fast typing. Mrs. Donoho. 232-G746. Hours: 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. 
Sawing repairs. Reasonable. Call 8051. 
U. of Mich. grad. in Russian will tutor Russian students. Studied in Leningrad. Call 683-4332 or 233-9948. Ask for Melanie Lewis. 
NEED QUALITY TYPING? Executary, Inc. Professional Typing Service IBM Correcting Selectrics $.85 per page minimum. Call 232-G898. "When you want the Best" 
LOST &FOUND 

Would the parson who brought back a glow in the dark I rlsbae from the Sophomore Class Plcmc PLEASE return It to Hank, 226 Keeran. 
Lost Umbrella. Brow &off-white. Call John 1848 (around mic. ite) 
Lost One SMC class r ng, initials CFN, '78. REWARD. 4-5143 Cathy. 
Found: On sidewalk 1976 Holy Cross preparatory class 1. "9· Call Denise 4-5402. 
Lost: Student football ticket and Senior Bar card near Senior bar. Reward. Victoria 4-4124. 
FOR RENT 

Office Space Ideal on-campus location. Situated in prestigious locale under Golden Land­mark. Open for inspection, just stop by Office of the Provost, 2nd floor, Admin. Bldg. Immediate occupancy available, short-or long-term residency. Reason­able rates. 
WANTED 

Twenty girls needed to sell WJVA's Inflation Fighter Booklet. $2.75 per hour & bonuses. Clll 272-5550 or apply In parson at Randall's Inn Conference Room, 344 between noon and 7:011 p.m. 
Pleasant Telephone Work. Full and part· time available. Ideal for students. Apply Wed., Thurs. Sept. 28, 29 with American Merchandising, Randall Inn, 31 North, Conference Room 344, between 4 & 7 p.m. 
People with cars. Ught delivery work. Ideal for students. Apply Wed. and Thurs. between 4 & 7 p.m. with American Merchandising, Randall Inn, 31 North, Conferenr.e Room 344. 
Need 2 GA tickets for MSU. Call Mary Kay 6892. 
Need 1 USC ticket. Will pay top price. Call Jeff at 283-8619. 
Will trade 2 MSU tix &cash for 2USC tix. 277-1648. 
Needed 1 sludent ticket. Michigan St. Julie 1297. 
Please, I need Michigan State tickets. $$. Call Jay Brandenberger 233-8288. 
Need 2 G~ or married student tix for MSU. Call 256-1341. 
Needec' desperately: 2 Michigan State GA tic' ;ts. Call Tom 287-3987. 
Wanted: Need one Southern Cal ticket. Will pay $$$. Call 7781. 
1\ 3ed 2 Ga Michigan State tickets. Will pay your price. Call Tom 3693. 
Please pity me. Missed the last roll call for H-come ticket package. Haven't seen HTH in 3 months. Need 1 USC ticket or never will again. Dave 1158. 
Kim needs: 3 GA tickets to USC. Call 4-5241. 
Wanted: 1 or 2 girls to sublet Campus View apt. with soph. transfer student. Call Gail 277·1441. 
Need 4 GA or student tickets to MSU game. Please help. Sheila 4-4954. 
Wanted: Need 2-4 Ga tickets to Navy., Will pay Teresa 4-4956. 
Desperately need 2 tix for Michigan State. Call Mo 4-4001. 
Person needed with 9:05 a.m. & 10:10 
a.m. free on MWF. Contact Audio Visual Center. 6423. 
Wanted: 2-4 GA tickets to Michigan State, Navy, or Georgia Tech. game. Will pay top $$$. Call Pat 8377-8378. 
Roommate for 3 bedroom house at Corby and Hill. Male grad preferred. $85 per month. Call 288-2991 eves. 
CASH: for two Ga tlx to ANY home game! Call Mark 287-4118. 
Wanted SC tickets, will pay premium.Call collect 714-498-3000. 
Needed: 1-4 tix for Army game. Call Marla 1318. 
GA's and stud. for USC game.$$$$. Mlck 2743. 
Need 4 GA tix to Michigan State. Call Steve 8610. 
Need $$$? Sell me 2 Ga usc tix. Call Frank 277-4826. 
Need six Southern Cal tix. Mark 287-7051 
Ne j 2. Southern Cal tix. Beth 272-2340. 
Wanted: 4 USC tickets. Will pay good bucks. Call Jim at 1419. 
Wanted: Two tickets to Michigan State game, either GA or student ticket. Call Mark 1436. 
Wanted: 5 USC tickets. Call Paul at 1424. 
Wanted: 4 GA tickets for Southern Cal. Will pay good bucks. Call 1423, ask for Mike. 
3 USC tix. Call 8051. 
Wanted: Six Ga tickets to USC. Call Jeanne at 4-4001. 
Need 4 USC GA tix. Will pay $, Call Ron 1423. 
I WILL BE FOREVER IN DEBT TO YOU if you sell a pair (2) of Ga tickets for the USC game. My parents want to come and cheer for old Notre Dame. Will pay $$$$$. Call Mary 1313. 
Needed: Five GA tix for USC. Call Telana 4-5745. 
Wanted: Desperately need 1 student ticket for USC-ND game! Will pay$. Call 4-4124. 
Wanted: Desperately need 6 GA tix to any home game. Call Chris at 1158. 
Need a plethora of Mich. St. tix. Call Steve at 8422. 
desperate: need up to 6 USC tickets • will pay excellent price. call frank 277-2576. 
Need 1 GA Mich. State tix. Call Pam 4-4146. 
Desperately need 3 GA Michigan State tix. Call 4786. 
Need one student ticket to Michigan game. Will pay$$. Call Lenny 277-2397. 
Need 2 mich. tickets. Lots of cash. 1129. 
Need ride to Bowling Green weekend of Oct. 8. Call Anne 7835. 
Need 4 GA USC tickets. I'll top all other offers. Call Brian 272-5843. 
The two handsome gentlemen need 2 tickets to MSU game GA or student. Call 1244. 
Desperately need Ga tix to Mich. State. Please call Ruth at 272-3513 morning or eve. 
Two Mich. St. GA tix for $$ or trade for two Navy GA tix. Call 283-1014 and leave message for Marty. 
Need 4 GA tix for MSU game. Call Joe 2197. 
NEEDED: Two GA tix for Michigan State. Call1072. 
HELP! Family flying in from Florida, desperately need 6 Michigan St. tlx (both Ga and student). Call Rick 8694. 
Need 1 or 2 G for MSU. Call 8333. 
Need tix for any home game. Call Sharon 1261. 
Desperately need 3 Ga tickets for Tech. game. Bob 8405. 
Desperately need 2tickets to Mich. State. Will pay $. Call Meg 4-4046. Please!! 
USC student or GA tlx wantid. West coast clients will pay premlum.'272-7360after 6 p.m. 
Desperately need 1 USC ticket. Call 4-4101. 
Need ride to Chestecton, Ind. (on the tollway about halfway to Chicago) Friday afternoon. Call Vicki 6751. 
FOR SALE 1season student ticket. Call Larry 8384. Alto sac mint. Gibson Heritage with case. 
Best offer for either. Call 288-3706. 
PERSONALS 

Hey Snake!! Despite your chewing, gatoring, drink­ing, cowboy delusions &small hands, we love you and will be there breaking down your door every weekend! Love, 
Your favorite DJ 

P.S. What are friends for? 
Mark from Dubuque & 4th Stanford, Watch for afantastically clever personal tomorrow. Arjmand -you too. 
v 

We want acts that won't get the axe. Octoberfest "Happy Hour" Gong Show at the LibrJry Friday Sept. 30 3-6 p.m. Call 4-4298. 
Welcome back Jaime! Rest easy and don't eat yellow snow...we need you Rocco! 
Congratulations to Blip on jumping 3 bicybles with his XR-7!1 
Rick Branning, It's really a pity that you can't drive like you dribbht. On the way back from Pitt, The Birls in the Brown Bobcat 5123. 
Rent the Rowing Club-bus. Reasonable rates. 24 passenger. Rob 8922. 
Any girl interested In organizing a Swimming Club, please call 8051. • 
Yes, folks, that one is on the level. 
Dirty Carpet: Steam shampoo cheap ($2 & up). Free estimate. Jim 8504. 
T-Moora, So you got your Personal, kid, how come to response????? 
G 

Gay Community at ND lnfoline. 8870 Frl &Sat 1G-12 p.m. 
Gay Community at ND Guide to ND-SB. Pandora's or Box 206 ND. $1. 
Mindy, Rosemary &Dearest Karan, We extend to you our warmest invita­tion to attend the Keenan 2-North party on Saturday evening. Love &Kisses, 
212. 

Remby, Have a great day. Happy 11. Love, Sef 
Here's to Rob Dolan 
He's an old man 
Let's find out If 
he stiII can (so to speak). 
Yours in the Biblical sense, 
The Odd Quad 

P.S. Were you up for your birthday? 
I, Jeffery "Abe" Kohler, do hereby publicly apologize to the men of Dillon Hall for my heinous act of necrophilia committed upon a Fayre and delicate wench, on the night of September 17. 1977. I would especially like to behumble myself to my roommates in 169-170 for tarnishing their righteous and unblemish­ed characters. I hereby pledge that in the future I will adhere to my somewhat puritanical previous policy of bestiality (Indiana Pa. sows). Again, men of Dillon, I am sorry. 
Dear Abe, An apology well past due, but if that was your Idea of a "Fair and delicate wench!" 
Chip 

Mary (Anny) 
Get psyched! KFA good luck Sat. 
Lix &Stephanie, Welcome back. I missed you. Love, Jim 
To Bill, Bob, Tim, Russ, etc of Dillon, 
Thanks for keeping us In good "Spirits" 
while waiting for ticket packages. 
J&S 
J 


12 the observer 

Joe Yonto coordinates ND defense 
' .,u 

~ ..... 
Joe Cosgrove Get Your Irish Up 
If the fourth quarter of the Notre Dame-Purdue game is any indica­tion of the future, then it is safe to say that the "Irish Bandwagon" is at last rolling hard and fast. It's time therefore, for us-the "Great­est Student Body in the World " the fabled "Twelfth Player" f r Notre Dame, to get our act lJ­gether, hop on that Bandwagon, and ride all the way with the Irish. 
It's no easy task--it means being "Behind the Irish," all the Irish, ie. coaches, quarterbacks and lep­rechauns, and showing that we are behind them 1000 percent, even though common sense may leave us doubtful and questioning. "You Gotta Believe" and have faith that the Irish can (and will) roll on to that number-one spot which is
Tom 

Desmond:::::::::=:=:::=::::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:::::::-:;:::::::·::::=========:=·============:======·=·===·=========:=·====>=-:·==:===:===========::===·=·===·>=·=;=;=;=.;:;:;.;:;:;:;:;.;::~-===;=·=;=;=;=;=-:==·=·======>=====·=====·=;=·=;=;=;=;=;=;=·=;=:=:=:=:= 
Strategy 
S. p . t 

=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=:=·=·=;=-=·=:::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;::===========::::;:;::=::::;:;:;::::=::;:;:;:;:;:;:;::=::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;::::::::::::-:-::;:;:;.;.;:;:;:;:;:;:;.;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::::::::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;.;:;:;:;:;:;:;.;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;.;:;:;.;-;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:; 1x-o1n ers 
"Be it ever so humble, there is no place like home." That has got to be the feelings of Dan Devine's nomadic football squad as they prepare to open the 1977 home schedule this Saturday against a strong Michigan State team. 
Notre Dame Stadium is not a place of the humble. The crowd that fills the bleachers on Saturday afternoons in the fall is one that is very proud and very boistrous. There is no better team tt:an Notre Dame. The Fighting Irish are going "march on to victory". These are the feelings of the studen-ts, the alumni and the loyalists who come to see their team destroy an opponent. 
More often than not the outcome has been pleasing to the partisans that witness a Notre Dame home game. The confident mental attitude that exudes from the student section most certainly becomes personified in the play of the blue and gold clad warriors. 
Last week against Purdue, the Fighting Irish demonstrated an internally generated pride and confidence. Gary Forystek started things off when he moved the team into Purdue territory early in the first half. The Irish seemed uninspired until Forystek entered the game and ironically, it was his run on which he got hurt that best exemplified the new-found flair in the Irish offense. Forystek's determination was shown in his scrambling, head-down run on which Fred Arrington's jarring tackle 
' 
was to fell him. What the fans at that game remember is Arrington's vicious stop. What they should never forget, however, is Forystek's awakening of the echoes with his determined style. 
This Saturday the Michigan State Spartans will invade Notre Dame Stadium to test the new born confidence in the Irish offense that is attributable to the flair started by Forystek and the ensuing dramatics of Joe Montana. The Spartans bring a 2-1 record to South Bend for the 1:30 kickoff and this is how things shape up for the first football weekend of 1977. 
When MSU has the ball: Take a combination of the Mississippi and Purdue offenses and you will come up with the Michigan State attack. Coach Darryl Rogers returns the Big Ten's top passer and receiver of a year ago and to this has added an excellent J.C. ·.transfer to handle the running chores.· _ 
Ed Smith is the Michigan State quarterback and last fall he led the Big 
The Leprechaun 

ours. 
Criticism can be a constructive thing, but all too often our illus­trious crew of "Monday Morning Quarterbacks" let criticism run wild (even a leprachaun knows what play to call on Monday-morning !). When criticism starts to destroy individuals and teams, then it is not worthy of a Notre· Dame brother or sister to use it. 
So the call goes out to you. Climb aboard and be counted as truly Irish! If you can't live up to this commitment, then you're not needed on the Bandwagon. You'll only slow us down, though you'll never stop us. Come January 1 as we march into Miami, remember you had the chance to join a winner. Go Irish! 
Ten with 1, 749 yards passing and 13 touchdown tosses. So far this fall he 
has completed 44 of 92 attempts for 626 yards and three scores. A 
talented play-caller and user of the audible, he poses a threat to any 
defense he faces. 
Kirk Gibson caught 39 passes for 748 yards and seven scores last fall to 
lead the Big Ten. A fleet-footed receiver, he has snared nine passes, 
including one last week for 83 yards, good for a 22.7 yards per catch 
average. Edgar Wilson is the Spartans other split receiver and joins the 
gridiron squad after a four-year stint on the basketball team. Wilson is 
the team's leading receiver with 11 catches good for 229 yards. 
Unlike Purdue, Michigan State has a very adequate ground attack to go 
with its aerial circus. In Leroy McGee, Rogers has a quick tailback who 
bas averaged 4.5 yards on 63 carries. Add to that the hard running of 
fullback Jim Earley (28 carries for 155 yards) and the Spartans have a 
more than capable backfield. 
Defensively the Irish's biggest problem is injuries. As of Tuesday, 
three members of the starting unit were on the injured list. Joe Restic and 
Steve Heimkreiter both suffered knee injuries last Saturday and Willie 
Fry is still recovering from an injury sustained at Mississippi. Restic and Heimkreiter are out for Saturday and Fry's appearance is doubtful. 
The pressure this week will be on the defensive line. The front four 
mustestablishthemselves early as to offset the Spartan running attack. 
The play of Ken Dike, Jeff Weston, Mike Calhoun and Jay Case at the 
tackle slots will be instrumental to the Irish cause as they will be charged 
with stopping the rushes of McGee and Earley. 
When Notre Dame has the ball: Injuries are raising havoc in the Irish 
offensive backfield as well. Vagus Ferguson, Terry Eurick and Steve 
Orsini are among the running backs who are on the injured list this week. 
Jerome Heavens will be operating out of the halfback slot with last 
Saturday's winning touchdown-scorer Dave Mitchell at fullback. 
But, as was the case on Saturday, tht: offense's performance will more 
than likely hinge on the performance of Montana. Montana will be getting 
the starting nod via his theatrics of this past Saturday. Montana has the 
style to run Devine's offense. He stands in the pocket, has the ability to 
saramble and the field presence to come up with the right play at the right 
time. 
by Tony Pace Sports Writer 

Last Saturday afternoon against Purdue, the Notre Dame defense came into its own. Though they had played well in the two pre­vious games, they had yet to dominate the opposition. Against Purdue, However, the Irish de­fense not only kept the Boiler­makers off the scoreboard in the second half, they also created fine scoring opportunities for the of­fense. The-man who has greatly aided the development of this defense is Defensive Coordinator and Line Coach Joe Yonto. 
Coach Yonto, a 1948 Notre Dame graduate, has been the defensive line coach for the past fourteen seasons. During that span of time he has coached an incredible number of All-Americans including Alan Page, Mike McCoy, Kevin Hardy, Walt Patulsk.i, Mike Kad­ish, Greg Marx, Mike Fanning, Steve Niehaus and Ross Browner. 
Last spring, Head Coach Dan Devine added the duties of Defen­sive Coordinator to Coach Yonto's responsibilities. "lfhis," said Yon­to, ·'has added to my duties by making me put t'Ie whole defensive picture together. It really does not involve that much more. I sit down with the other defensive coaches and we come up with a game plan, then I show it to Coach Devine." 
This year, because of the high . rating given to the Irish in the pre-season polls and because the defense returns all of last year's starters, Yonto says there is extra pressure on the defense to perform well. He stated, "This put quite a bit of added pressure on us because we were only ranked 14th overall defensively last season. It really gives incentive to the other ball-
Varsity status given to women 
by Laurie Reising the schedule grow to 13 games 
Women's Sports Editor against all varsity level competiti­
tion. The team did not improve its 
Women's basketball was ele-won loss percentage, posting a 6-7 vated from club sport to varsity record but did gain valuable ex-level Tuesday following a decision perience and more campus in-reached by Notre Dame's Athletic terest. Board. Being a club sport, the team was 
The basketball program was responsibly for raising funds to conceived late in the summer of cover expenses arising during the 1974 when it was granted club season such as uniforms, referees, sport status. Jeanne Earley, a and food. This was accomplished former Notre Dame student volun-through an old Notre Dame tradi­teered to assume the coaching tion-the hot dog stand. The team duties and guided the first team to really made its presence known a 3-4 season. The next year saw . during their third season. Sally clubs because they have everything to gain and nothing to lose when they play us." 
There is an interesting situation on the defensive line this season because two of the three tri-cap­tains come! from that unit. Yonto thinks that the rest of the defensive unit will look to the line for leadership this year. Y onto remar­ked,"I think our defensive line can really set a tempo for the whole unit. During the second half of the Purdue game we were finally getting to the passer. We had worn down their offensive unit.'' 
This year, the Notre Dame defensive line features two of the best defensive ends in colle§~ football, Ross Browner and ).Vii11e Fry. Y onto commented, .::Rbss is a great individual and a-'great ath­lete. This year many teams are either double teaming Ross or running the other way. For­tunately, this frees a guy like Willie Fry to make the plays. Willie started out great against Pitt, but he has been hampered by a foot injury ever since. Hopefully, he'll be back to top form very soon." 
Behind these two is sophomore Scott Zettek. The 6-5,226 pounder has played well filling in for Fry. Yonto likes what he has seen of Zettek. "Scott can play both tackle and end. For a sophomore, he has been doing a fine job." 
At tackle, the Irish boast a quartet of fine players, Jeff Wes­ton, Ken Dike, Mike Calhoun and Jay Case. Though Weston's knee injury and Calhoun's back prob­lems have limited their playing time, Yonto feels that they will return and provide good depth at this position. "Weston and Dike can really do the job against the run. They clog up the middle very well. Ken also had a good pass rush against Purdue. Mike Cal­houn has been impressive this week and I look for his return. Jay Case missed all of last year but he has really been coming on. I look for him to add to our pass rush." 
Looking back on all of the fine linemen whom he' has had the chance to coach, Yonto said, "It is really hard to pinpoint any one of them as being better than the others. Some1'&uch as Browner, Niehaus, Pa~1ski and McCoy, we knew they,,\~Vould be stars early in their careers. Others, such as Pete Duranko, Bob Kuechenberg and Mike Fanning, worked hard to become top flight players. In fact, 
· the great Alan Page was just a skinny runt his sophomore year. It was not until his junior year that he blossomed." 
Looking forward to this week's clash with Michigan State, Yonto expressed his happiness with the team's return to play on his home turf. "It's always good to be playing at home, but especially after being on the road for three weeks. It is natural or teams to play better in their home environ­ment. You are using your own facilities rather than depending on the opponents." 
As usual Yonto sees the Spartans as a tough opponent. "Even though they have declined in recent years they always give us a battle. Msu-. Purdue and USC arc always tough games. They are intense rivalries. 
"Michigan State has a fine offense. Their tailback, Leroy McGee is a real speedster. Quarterback Ed Smith and flanker Kirk Gibson form a fine passing duo. Our guys have worked hard though and we wiJI be prepared." 
With Coach Yonto's record, that statement is certainly self-evident. 
Duffy replaced the graduating Ear­ley as coach and expanded the schedule to 14 games and a spot in the IWISO tournament. That year saw the team post its first winning season, 8-5. 
At the end ofthe 1976 season the girls felt it was time they should seek varsity status. A petition was drawn up by coach Duffy along with the two co-captains, Carol Lally and Maureen Maloney whi·~h cited numerous reasons necessitat­ing a change. Several facts were that each year saw at least 40-60 girls trying out, the need for a paid coach, medical insurance coverage and a student trainer. "Because, after three years of intercollegiate competition we feel we have gained much need experience which has enabled us to look back honestly and to evaluate where we were, where we stand now and where we would like to see ourselves in the future," stated the petition's orig­inators. 
The text went on to stress the benefits of the basketball program in the form "growth and personal development of the girls. Certainly women's basketball has a way to go in terms of fundamental skills and overall team play, but the strides taken in the last four years have that women can be feminine as well as athletic and compe!itive." 
Now that it is a varsity sport, women's basketball will enjoy the benefits of an increased budget, the availabiity of tutors for team members if desired, a paid coach and student trainer 
Along with their new position, the team will have a new coach for the 1977-78 season. Sharon Petro, presently the coach of the women's tennis team, will also be assuming that title. When asked her feelings on the announcement Petro said she was '.'absolutely thrilled, the girls have been looking forward to it so much." Petro went on to say there will be no major changes in the upcoming schedule. "You have to remember that we still are relatively a young squad and I would rather have us stay in t!-Je range of competition we've been in previously , at least for awhile.'' 






