Logan Center battles budget 
by Rosemary Mills effect on Nov. 1, the cut would this project. He mentioned busing 
Senior Staff Reporter eliminate aU summer programming students to lobby in Indianapolis as 
for school-age children, greatly a possible measure. Bender indi­

Notre Dame Student Govern­reduce the number of clients, and cated that the main leverage of the ment will fight the Logan Center discontinue all or most recreation students lies in the number· of budget cut, Student Body Presi­services. voters on campus registered in 
According to Bender, Student Indiana.

dent Dave Bender announced 
yesterday. Bender met with Government will take a £rm stand Another step in the plan is to representatives from t~ ND-SMC on the cutback. Letter writing cam­contact the two congressmen from community to discuss proposed paigns to aU members of the this region and Governor ·.Otis action. Budget Committee will be Bowen. Third District Congress­
Notre Dame and St. Mary's initiated. The main targets of this man John Brademas has already will coordinate their action with campaign are State Senator John been contacted. According to his the Council for the Retarded of Mutz (-R-) of Indianapolis, State chief aide, Brademas is against the St. Joseph County, according to Representative William Long (-R-) cut, although he noted that the of Lafayette, and John Huie, action is a state affair.
Bender who has contacted the council's Executive Director, AI appointed director of the budget Notre Dame alumni who live in 
Soenneker. committee. Bender specifically Indiana will be contacted for 
The state budget committee plans to state that the students support. Bender feels that polit­recently voted 3-2 to cut ten million are actively working against the ically active alumni may be of help. dollars from funds appropriated for cut. Local politicians and media will services to the developmentaUy Bender said that Student be asked to back the student gov-disabled. Scheduled to go into Government may commit money to lcontinued on page 2] 

an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's Vol. XII, No. 21 Tuesday, September 27, 1977 

Peer/eve/sought 

How to keep an off-campus student busy • The daily routine of the student becomes more complex when faced with the necessity of self survival. Above, a lawn mower gets a hand from one Notre Dame homesteader. [Photo by Leo Hansen] 
• 

ND struggling to raise salar1es . 
by Drew John Bauer raised $250 this summer, according Associate Professor Irwin Press salary increase of at least $1000 stre~sed that ~otre ~~me couldn t 
Senior Staff Reporter to a letter written by University said that although Notre Dame has over and above any normal raise," conh~ue to raise tuition because 
President Fr. Theodore Hesburgh given "good raises the last three proposed Press. "I don't care the mcreases would cut off a 
Despite a seven percent increase to the parents of undergraduate years that are above the national where the administration gets the significant number of students in average faculty compensation students. average," the faculty has still lost money from, but they have to make who woul~ be unable to afford a this year, faculty leaders are stress­"One of our primary goals is to ground to comparable institutions. this move. This university is moderate mcrease. 
ing that additional raises will be increase faculty salaries to a more "Wh t happened was that the nothing without its faculty. Take Although both the Admini­necessary soon before Notre Dame competitive level," said Thomas J. th .. U~i ersitie received raises away the buildings, take away stration and faculty members agree salaries are comparable to those at Mason, vice-president for Business ~ t r ~00 If we were $1600 everything. But you can't take that salaries are low compared to other "peer institutions." Affairs. "But we are restricted in ts yea median saiary) behind the away the faculty. We are the some schools, each side can not 
The demands are bringing in­the size of the raise by ~he amount ~;e~~~elast year, although we backbone of the whole University·'' ~gr~e ~n w.~at consti~utes a ''peer creasing pressure on the University of funds we have avatlable each received a 7 percent increase this . mshtution. Accordmg to Press, to increase faculty salary sub­year." year' so did they' and now we are Peer Institutions the Faculty Senate .suggested two stantiaiiy in order to continue Mason called Notre Dame a further behind,,, explained Press. years ago that the Big T~? b~ used attracting quality professors to du "labor-intensive operation" and Press, who last year was chair-"The University could probably as a comparable base. Th!s was Lac. Several Faculty Senate mem­said that 60 percent of all un-man of the Committee on Faculty get the money it needs either by because these .schools are m the bers state that the relatively low restricted and operation funds goes Affairs of the Faculty Senate, said increasing tuition, diverting money same geographic area as us .an~ compensation level has "certainly for salaries and benefits. He also that there has to be drastic action from maintenance and construe-because they are of top academ1c hurt'' Notre Dame in attracting said that although tuition was one taken by the University concerning tion, or soliciting gifts specifically quality," said Press. , good associate and assistant pro­of the main sources of funds for the salaries if there was any hope of for salaries. However, after the senate s fessors. University • "there is a limiting catching the peer institutions. Press stated that former Provost action, Burtchaell . proposed his 
A total salary increase of be­point when it comes to how much "There has to be a substantial James T. Burtchaell always [continued on ..-ge 2] 
tween $1000 to $1800 would be we can raise tuition." necessary to bring the faculty up to "We are very conscious of the the level of comparable institu­burden our tuition is on the 1976-77 Average Compensation tions, stated the faculty sources. parents and students," Mason The uncertainty about the exact added. figure is due to the uncertainty Mason said that the increases in University Professors Associated Professors Assistant Professors among the faculty and the admin­salaries over the last three years istration on what is a "comparable enabled Notre Dame to move up a 
Notre Dame $28,700 (2) 521,800 (2) $17,100 (3) 
peer institution." "notch" among institutions. He However, while University of­also said that although the Univer­Cornell 33,800 (1) 22,800 (2) 18,200 (2) ficials admit that faculty salaries sity and an informal plan to make are below those of other ''peer faculty salaries more competitive, 
U. of Mich. 33,000 (1) 24,200 (l) 19,800 (1) 
institutions," they argue that they the University really has to ••take it have to conduct a "balancing act" one year at a time," due to Indiana 29,900 (2) 22,400 (2) 18,400 (2) between faculty demands for inflation. Mason cited a 35 percent higher salaries and student con­increase last year in health insur­Iowa 30t000 (2) 23,100 (2) 19,000 (1) cerns with the increasing costs of ance costs, which are included with an education. salary and other benefits as total usc 31,500 (1) 23,100 (2) 19,300 (1) 
A few faculty members also state faculty compensation. "It is really that they are subsidizing low difficult to forecast salary increases Pittsburgh 31;300 (1) 22,400 (2) 17,700 (3)tuition at Notre Dame with their far in advance when you have all salaries, stating that tuition at these unexpected expenses due to Yale 35,600 (1) 21,900 (2) 16,200 (4)other private schools of the same inflation,'' Mason said. academic caliber exceeds Notre Harvard 38,500 (1•) 23,000 (2) 18,000 (2) Dame's by hundreds of doiiars. Narrow the gap However, some faculty said that Vanderbilt 30,800 (2) 22,400 (2) 16,900 (4) Ithere are alternatives to raising Acting Provost Fr. Ferdinard L. tuition. "Tuition has risen before Brown, whose office allocates Stanford 35,300 (1) 24,600 (1) 19,800 (1)while faculty salaries stayed the funds for total faculty expenses and same," one professor said. research, said that increasing fac­lllinois 30,500 (2) 21,500 (3) 18,100 (2) 
The pressure for salary hikes ulty salaries was one of his op almost guarantees continuing priorities. He said that he would MSU 29,100 (2) 22,900 (2) 19,200 (1) 
tuition increases if the University like to have the Notre Dame has to finance the raises out of salaries competitive with other money raised by tuition, stated one "peer schools." ( ) denotes percentage bracket: (1 ~) 95 percent or better (2) 60 to 79.9 percent administrator. This years compen­We are trying as fast as we can (1) 80 to 94.9 percent (3) 40 to 59.9 percentsation increase, totaling over $1 to narrow the ·gap, and I think our million, was one of the main faculty is realizing that," Brown 
Fl.gures taken from the AAUP Summer Bulletin, 1977 

reasons undergraduate tuition was remarked. 


Tuesday, September 27, 1977­
2 the observer 
~On Campus Today_ __......_. 
12:45 p.m. wsnd, "thought you'd never ask: human & 11:45 p.m. sexuality" by fr. william toohey 640 am. 
4:30p.m. seminar, "scanning electron micoscopy of isolated collagen matrices repopulated
" 
with epithelium and mesenchymal cells," dr. jane overton, univ. of chicago, rm. 278 galvin center, sponsored by the bio. dept. 
6:30p.m. reception & dinner, "evening at st. mary's," sponsored by smc scholarship fund. 
7 p.m. meeting, students for campus security with dean roemer, law school lounge, all welcome. 
7, 10 p.m. film, "the day of the jackal" eng aud $1. 
7:30 p.m. eucharist, charismatic eucharist, log chapel, open to all. 
7:30p.m. meeting, headstart, lewis, everyone welcome. 
8:15 p.m. workshop, oktoberfest decorating, smc social commission office. 
9 p.m.-11 p.m. nazz, open stage, basement of Iafortune. 
midnight album, bob welch's "french kiss," wsnd 640 am. 

WEATHER 
Sunny and pleasant today with highs in the mid-to-upper 70's. 
Clear and cool tonight. Lows in the upper 40's. Sunny and pleasant 
tomorrow. High around 80. 
ND attemp~s to select group of 'peer institutions' 
[continued &om page 1] three proposals difffered in part, own group of "peer institutions." that there was a "common inter­"These schools mclude: Cornell, ception" among them to work with. Duke, Northwestern, Indiana, Van­derbilt, Southern California, Iowa, Pittsburgh, Emory, and St. Louis.'' 
Tutors to receive
No one· really is sure exactly how, he determined that these schools 

required TB test 
· were "peer institutions," said one P!ofessor. 
All tutors for the Neighborhood 
Of the ten schools cited, only St. Study Program will be given their Louis had lower levels of faculty TB tests tomorrow between 11:30 compensation than Notre Dame. a.m. and 1 p.m. in the LaFortune 
ballroom. The TB tests are re­
A third group of "peer institu­quired by state law for any personstions" was proposed by Brown last working with the public. TutorsFriday. This group included Har­must return for the test readings onvard, Yale, Princeton, Vanderbilt, this Friday between 11:30 a.m. and · Duke, the Big Ten and Stanford. 
12:30 p.m. at the Volunteer Ser­Brown said that although all vices Office in LaFortune. 




AC members added 
Four new students have been colleges," said Strigle. appointed to the Academic Council, At its organizational meeting last according to Florenceanne Strigle, night, "the structure of the Aca­student government Academic demic Council was discussed, Commissioner and representative · along with some issues that have to the council. been brought to our attention 
THe new members from the already,'' Strigle noted. A letter, various colleges are: Ken Ricci, to be sent to all students, explain­Business; Joe Bums,Engineering; ing the Academic Council, "its Vince Barbera, Arts and Letters purpose, its manner and the people and John McManus, Science. Two who were selected" is being plan­other students, one from the law ned school and an at-large graduate student were unknown at the time of the meeting. 
"The four were chosen, by a 


(!h~~:.,~~~~:~:~l 
five-member committee of admin­Asst. Night Editor: Tracy Her­istrators, based upon recommen­man dations made by the deans and Layout Staff: Mike Lewis, Jim· councils of the four undergraduate Veraldi, Sue Wuetcher, Mar­
gie Brassil Editorial layout: Judy Rup­
The Observer Is publtsMd Mon­
precht
d•Y tllrough Frtd_, ••C~et~t d•rtnl 
eum ..... v.catlon pertocls. Tt)e 
Sports Layout: Greg ''Jour­
Observer Is IHIItflsiMd by 1M 
nal" Solman
stvclet~ts of Notre Dame ..... s.ant 
Typists: Gwen Coleman, Sue IMY be purch..... tor S20 per YMt' 
M.,Ys Coli.... S•bscrtptlons 
Scribner, Mary Jo Cushing,
cs 11 per HI'MSter) from The 
Lisa DiValerio
Observer, P.O. ... Q, Notre o.me, tnda.t• 46556. SMOftd 
Night Controller: Mike Bodle chill ,.,.,... p-'d, Notre o.me, 
Day Editor: Tom Nilsson,
Ind....., 4US6. 
Lynn Roberts 
. The 0 bserver Is • rMmiMr of 
tile Aa~tect ........ All repro­
~Copy Reader: Tom Byrne, PaJ d,l(ctlon rltllts.,.. retef'Wd, 
Payne 
'• ·,,', '-. '• I .. •. . .. ~ 
-. ·.•, 
----------~--~------~--~----------------~----------~------------­
Meyers addresses students 
by Bob V arettonl said, ''and they were more pre­Later in the day, the students Senior Staff Reporter judiced than I was; and it showed." attended workshops on topics re­. Myers, who has worked for UPI lated to the field ofjournalism. Two Veteran UPI political reporter since 1942, is also the co-author of Notre Dame professors conducted Hortense Myers warned· high six biographies. One was on the life workshops; Ronald Weber on ''The school journalists at a press con­of Robert Kennedy. Myers recalled New Journalism'' and Madonna ference yesterday afternoon in the yesterday Kennedy's primary cam­Kolbenschlag on "Newswriting." Center for Continuing Education paign in Indiana, which she said More than 80 schools were that "the Bert Lance thing has was marked by ''constant con­invited to this year's workshop. people worried" that news repor­fusion" caused by his "tremen­The program was sponsored by the ters are "extending their bounds." dous crowd appeal.'' South Bend Tribune, the CCE, and Approximately 200 students at­area high school journalism
Responding to questions from 
tended Myer's press conference. teachers.
students attending the annual Michiana High School Journalism workshop, Myers said there is a 
Anita Bryant concert
"real danger" involved in poor investigative reporting because of 

the "publicity it could tum against scheduled over Oct. break 
the whole profession.'' bySamFlnk 
Joseph Sassano, assistant direc­The controversial Floridian Anita 
Myers also cited the influence of tor of the ACC, emphasized that television, saying that politics has .­Bryant will be on concert in the the show is not a University-spon­now become "picture dominated." ACC Qn Thurs., Oct. 27. Ticket sored event. The facilities are prices for the 7:30 p.m. show are simply being rented to the pro­
She noted that it is easy for some $6.50 for the main floor area and moter during the mid-semesterreporters to be fooled by a poli­$5.00 for bleacher seats. break, he said.
tician's image. 
Bryant is renowned for her "It is amazing to me that we efforts to insure that homosexuality 
elect the excellent people we do, is considered an illegal and crim­especially since we know so little inal offense in society. The 37-year­Resume due for 
about who we're voting for," she 
old former Miss America runner-up
said. 
recently led Save Our Children, Fellow chairman Inc. to a victory at the polls in DadeBias, Myers added, is always a 
County, Fl., where anti-discrimin­
strong feature in political repor­Those interested in serv'ng as ting. She said she refused some ation laws for homosexuals were chairman of the Senior Fellow 
stories on the ERA because she convincingly overturned. Since its Committee must submit one-page was afraid her prejudices might victory, the organization has begun resumes of qualification to Terri in show. a national struggle against gay the Student Activities office, first rights under Bryant's leadership. floor LaFortune, by noon Thursday. 
''Then I looked at the copy of 

......
some of the men reporters," Myers 
'Vie/ Vergnugen ...
Logan fights budget cut 


OKTOBERFEST '77 
[continued &om page 1] ernment effort. A press conference is scheduled for 12:30 p.m. today is coming tomorrow 
in LaFortune ballroom. Students are encourag.;;d to attend. Later tonight Student Body Vice-Presi­dent Tom Soma will enlist the sup­port of the HPC. 
St. Mary's Student Body Presi­dent Mary Rukavina stated that they will support the Notre Dame Student Government in their efforts. Jeanne Conboy, co-ch;tir­person of the ND-SMC Coun­cil for the Retarded, will hold a 
solicit
meeting for the council to Charlie Offers A Total Package
suggestions and organize the lobby. Like Bender, Rukavina 
Of Pharmacy Services
encouraged all students to write letters. 
Personal medication records are maintained by the MAR-MAIN Val Hardy, Commissioner for Pharmacy to provide the best prescription care. These records give a history of your medications as information concerning your
'Interracial and Social Justice Con­well as 
allergies arid helps us make accurate recommendations about your
good
cerns stated, "I think it's a medications and avoids undesirable drug combinations. first effort in forming the student Our record service is one of many services that make up our total lobby. It should appeal to the package of pharmacy services. 
average student to get involved." Those students who signed up to Mar-Main lobby on Activities Night as well as the Logan volunteers will be con­


Pharmacy
tacted. A general organizational meeting will be held next week for . anyone interested in working on' the lobby. ~ ,~

..; y.­
Art Koebel, co-chairperson of the ND-SMC Council for the Retarded, stressed the importance of the ..~r~. ~ council's involvement. "We're the ones most affected , " he said. "If they cut Saturday recreation, 



!-----------------1-THE LI~RARy· :
there's our whole program." He added that only the weekday classroom and gym volunteers would be lefi if the cut goes into effect. 

: Czitis" :
Bender is confident of student support. "The University professes to be Christian, and this is an opportunity to manifest our Chris­tianity," he said. "Iwould be 
:MONDAY & TUESDAY: 
extremely disappointed if people did not.'' 

' NIGHT t : 9-llPM : 
Freshpersons! 
Notice: 


:PITCHERS ·~unit ~k~ : 
MANDATORY CLASS 

I <;..~ Gin & Tonics t
MEETING-WED. SEPT. 28 
t . G~~ PINA_COLADAS! t 
7pm Athletic Bldg. 

: ~V(...~ strawberry daquiris I 
Topic: FRESHPERSON 

t -J _ only 2.00:
POLITICS 

~---------------~~ 
. •. l 
. -... 

...·. 
Tuesday, September 27, 19r17 the obaervw 
President attacks big oil lobby 
against Carter's gas pricing plan. energy program. As we depend
WASHINGTON [AP) • The 
And it came despite the Presi­more and more on energy imports, 
Senate dealt major new blows to 
dent's threat to veto any bill that the special interests should not be
President Carter's energy program 
deregulates natural gas prices. allowed to jeapordize our energy
yesterday, prompting a counter­
The vote killed an effort by Sen. future."
attack from the President against 
Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.) Carter added: "I call on ·the
the oil industry and an appeal to 
and other administration allies to Senate to act responsibly in the
senators to stop dismantling his 
revive the Carter plan. The move interesu of the great majority of
plan. 
was engineered by Senate Republic Americans to reject narrow special
Accusing big oil of trying to 
ans and oil-state Democrats. interest attacks on all segments of
''jeapordize our energy future," 
Last week, the Senate voted by a the national energy plan.''
Carter urged the Senate to reject 
six-vote margin to continue de­The Congress has been lobbied
''narrow special interest attacks on 
bating the industry proposal to lift continuously by the oil and gas
all segments" of his national 
price conj:rols from natural gas as industry ~o deregulate the price of
energy program. 
an alternative to Carter's proposal. new natural gas," Carter said."...
The President spoke in the White 
The President had told .reporters By 1985, the industry proposal will
House press room after the Senate 
earlier he thinks the committee cost the average American family
Finance Committee, rejecting the 
vote against his oil tax plan can be that heats with natural gas an
heart of his energy plan, defeated 
reversed. additional $150 a year.
his proposal to force conservation 
In an apparent effort to mate "It will cost the consumers
by taxing U.S. crude oil. 
sure that happens, Carter walked almost $10 billion every year and
But even as Carter was speaking, 
into the p;ress room an hour later will produce little, if any new
the full Senate rejected in a new 
and delivered a personal statement supplies." __
test vote his plan to keep federal 
before television cameras. The "Strong Incentives"
controls on natural gas prices. 
President said: Carter said his proposal for
The 53-39 vote, following action 
"The lobbying effort of the oil partial deregulation "would give
to halt a filibuster of an industry 
and gas industry on deregulation of producers strong incentives to ex­
supported deregulation measure, 
natural gas prices itself show how plore and to develop new supplies
was the second time a majority of 
the special interests are trying to of natural gas through a price
the Senate has gone on record 
block enactment of the entire which will be six times higher than 

Can Just ANYONE Purchase From Diamond Import Company? 
Technically, yes. But then, we're not sure JUSt ANYONE would want to do so. We're not a "jewelry store," so we doo-'t offer watches, silverware. or synthetic stones. Our specialization . lies in diamonds and fine gems, 18k gold and platinum Jewelry. We also offer appraisal services and estate 
jewelry, which is slightly removed from the norm. 
So, you see. we don't attempt to please just ANYONE. We serve those who appreciate qualify. and the profeSSIOnalism of a Graduate Gemologist. To those persons, whether they wish to invest $250.00 or $25,000.00 we extend our 
Lobby 
St. Joseph Bank Building South Bend. Indiana Telephone: 287-1427 
John M_ Marshall's 


COiamo"d ~mpo~t Co~npany 
Your Source for the Unusual

......,....... 
the price was five years ago. "That is enough," the President declared. 
''It is time for the public interest to prevail over special interest lobbyists." 
Carter cited a growing deficit in the nation's balance of foreign trade, "primarily because of excess oil imports." The Commerce De­partment said earlieJ;" in the day the deficit grew to $2.7 billion last 
Truce takes effect 
month. 
Beirut, ubanon (AP] . • Israeli civil war.
"I realize that there have geen armor rumbled back ·southward The cease-fire amounted to ansome preliminary votes in the 
across the border and the artillery unprecedented though indirectSenate which cause concern," barrages that pounded embattled agreement between the IsraelisCarter said. 
south Lebanon for weeks died and the PLO. Israeli defense"But I have confidence in the 
judgement of the Senate and the down yesterday as a U.S. mediated officials insisted it was an agree­cease-fire took effect. But the ment between the Israeli and
entire Congress, and I believe ... 
future of the truce remained Lebanese governments, though
that I and the American people can continue to have confidence that uncertain. that ''the PLO has given certain 
Yasir Arafat' s Palestime Liber­assurances."
the outcome of these proposals will ation Organization (PLO) issued a At the nearby village of Marl,be acceptable to me as President 
statement late yesterday saying four Israeli tanks were observedand will be a source of gratitude to Israel was ''continuing to spread its crossing back into Israel. But Eftythe House and Senate by the circle of aggression" and was reported that two other IsraeliAmerican people when adjourn­shelling south Lebanon. tanks remained in position between ment day comes." 
·But the charge could not be Khiam and Marjayoun, one mile toCall for compromise 
immediately verified because re­the north, which was held bySen. Russell B . Long, chairman 
porters left the battle area in Israeli-backed Christians. of the Finance Committee, in­midafternoon. A PLO spokesman here said dicated he does not view the Earlier, Associated Press cor­earlier yesterday that final details panel's 10-6 vote against the crude respondent Alex Efty reported of the cease-fire agreement were oil tas as final. He called another from the Palestinian held Lebanese still bein_g worked out. A small committee session to work out a border village of Khiam, a key radical guerrUta group, Dr. Georgecompromise tax that would be target of the . Israeli-Lebanese Habash's Popular _front for the acceptable to the President, the oil Christian offensive, that the big Liberation of Palestine, vowed not industry and a majority of Con­guns fell silent after the cease-fire to abide by it. gress. went into effect at 10 a.m. In Israel, officials said the cease­
In a brief conversation with But he said there was no sign of fire had taken effect and invited reporters as he left the annual guerilla preparations to pull out in reporters at the border town of 
meeting of the International Mone­accordance with announced pro­Metulla to watch as tanks and tary Fundand World Bank, Carter visions ofthe agreement for mutual armored personnel carriers that was asked whether he thought the Israeli-Palestinian pullbacks. provided support for the Christians committee's vote could be re­The cease-fire , worked out with in Lebanon returned to Israel. versed. The President replied: "I the aid of U.S. diplomats in Beirut, The truce took hold after a nightthink so." calls for withdrawal ofIsraeli forces of heavy Israeli shelling of Khiam 
The Senate, meanwhile, voted 77 from Lebanese territory and a and other guerilla strongholds 
to 17 to limit the debate that has pullback from the border by the along the HS mile border battle­prevented a decision on whether to guerrillas, who are to be replaced front, and after a salvo of Com­continue federal price controls on by a 1-470 man buffer unit from the munist made Katyusha rockets 
natural gas, as Carter prefers, or to Lebanese army. The army was fired from Lebanon fell on two remove them gradually. recently rebuilt after having disin-northern Israeli towns, woundingCarter has promised to veto any ,tegrated during Lebanon's 1975-76 eight persons. energy bill that removes price controls from gas. A majority of the Senate already has sided 
• against the President on one test vote on this issue. The Senate Democratic and Re­

'we are~ publican leaders called for .an end to the filibuster on natural gas. happySenate liberals opposed to any relaxation of federal price controls on gas led the delaying action in an .to be part effort to block the possibility that the Senate would vote to de­of the regulate prices, as it did in 1975. 
Although the debate limiting petition approved by the Senate 
NowPrinters~ neighbo 
restricts further debate to one hour 
per senator, leaders of the ftli· 
buster promised to use other 
FAST PRINTING
parlimentary maneuvers to keep the Senate from voting on de­
regulation. 1 resumes.•term paper~!flyers ­All seven Republicans on the . 
announcements • transparencies 
Finance Committee teamed with two liberal Democrats and in­
dependent Sen. Harry F. Byrd to on U.S. 31 one block south of Wendy's remove Carter's crude-oil tax from r -­the massive energy bill approved 
minutes from campus 1277-3355 
by the House. [continued on page 7] 
Cfi-CAMRJS IIECIIJITIMJ PROORAM Career Devel~nt Center Fall 1977 Saint Mary's College Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 
RECRJITI!Il DATE MAJOR/CCfiCmTRATION DESIRED 
Univeroity of Toledo Law School Fri. Sept. 30 Group session for all majora John M. s.yth Co. '1\les. Oct. 4 Unltncom at thia date Indiana State Personnel 'l\les. Oct. 4 Group session ror all majora 
(Gov't Jobs at state level) Ernst & t;rnst Wed. Oct. l2 Accounting Wed. Oct. l2 Accounting 
.. 

Tueo. Oct. ~8 All ~~ajors 
P.P.G Industries Wed. Oct. 19 Buaine81 Ac!miniatration Chemiatr,y/Matb/Accounting 
St. Regis Paper Co. Wed. Oct. 19 All majors Peat, Marvick, Mitchell & Co. Tues. llov. l Accounting 
G. T.!:. Data Services Wed. Jrov. 2 Interest in computers Math/Busineu 
Sears Roebuck 'l'hura .Nov. 3 All majors 
V.I.D.A. 'l'hurs.Nov. 3 Religious Studies/Education National Banks 'l\les. Nov. B Business/Accounting 
Wed. Nov. 9 Allied Milia· Wed. Nov. 9 Accounting/Business/Science Travelers Insurance Thurs .llov. 10 All majors Dana Corporation Tues. Nov. 15 Business Manufacturers National Bank '1\les. Nov. 22 Unkncom at this date Republic Steel Tues. Nov. 29 Accounting National Bank of Detroit Thurs.Dec. 1 All majors Veterans Administration Wed. Dec. 7 Sc1ence/Nursing/Bus./Acct. Health Career Dey Thurs.Dec. 8 Nursing/Science For fUrther details and additions to recruiting schedule, contact Ruth 
Witherspoon, Career Development Center (4431). ( )
September lffi 
,-­

--~--......----~~ 
P.O.·BOX Q 
manship to the bout. Also,. a separated from them. I would, winner would not be declared until Parietals vs however, find it very disturbin~ if
Does N.D. fail us? 
respective teams cleaned up their my parents were to burden me with territory. Perhaps admission could trust a list of rules such as the ones the University has compiled. Not only 
be charged to raise money for some would these rules indicate a com­
charity. (Like the World Hunger 
plete lack of trust on the part of my
Eclltor's Note: FoUowing are repre­Deu Editor: Program for instance.) By making Dear Editor: parents, but would also destroy my
sentative excerpts from om mall on What does (or should) Notre I am very much in agreement
the event a team competition the 
initiative to gain such a trust.
David Cwlk's eoiWDD, "'Dle Fallme Dame attempt to give its students? with you regarding the opinion
less enthusiastic would drop out 
When will I be truly able to realize
of Notre Dame." Volume prevents It presents an option which is column on the AI Hunter case. l 
sirice they would not want to spend if my actions are a result of fear of
om printing everything In Its radically different in today's world: myself have been subject to Notre 
the needed time at the training breaking the rules or of my own
endrety. It allows one the opportunity to Dame parietals for three years and
table. Surely a program such as · responsibility? But then who needs 
view his intellectual undertakings they continue to astonish me. 
to grow up? I can always do that
Dear Editor. in the light of a Christian exis­this could be developed to enhance These rules as their name sug­
after I graduate. _
I would never want to see a truly tence. our educational experience here at gests, are intended to take the catholic education exclude the Notre Dame. place of our parents while we are Name withheld by request
In its essence Notre Dame hopes
study of the works of such men as ..
to produce men and women whose 
Michael Mollnellt iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii--------iiiii
Hume, or Kant, or Marx, or Freud. 
Christianity is an integral part of But on the other hand, we must their life, so that they will applyalways be ready to lift from these their knowledge for the benefit of philosophies and ideas what is their fell~ men and their exis-Please protestvalid and good and true, and tence-. K1erkegaard (a Christiandiscard that which is against our existentialist) defined the religious 
sse actl•on

catholic Christian F~th. To those 
%observer
man as one who searched for thewho would say that this is not an good, but whose search was guided
objective approach, I would re­spond that there is nothing objec­by the fact that he had made a leap tive about being a Christian. of faith in his existence. We must Deu Editor: Christianity is a commitment to a be aware of our God and his design Recent action by the State I:Sud­
certain way of life, and to a certain for us. This makes Notre Dame-a get Committee has slashed half of 
E itoria s
set of beliefs and values. To try to university of the classroom for the the funds that had been earmarked place it alongside other ideologies, intellect and the dormitory for for state services for the develop­philosophies and value systems on 
mentally disabled. Locally this will 
living with one's fellow men. Wean equal footing, when we are 
the of services
are here to learn in and from mean that kindssupposed to have already made 
available to handicapped individ­
both.

that commitment, is to confess a 
uals will be markedly reduced. The
Lawrence Kennoncertain agnosticism. Our failure in 
St. Joseph County Council for the
the modern Notre Dame may lie in 
Retarded will be receiving only half 
the fact that we are assuming a 
of its projected budget.

Dear Editor: faculty and students alike, when Wednesday..s column entitled This nation has graduaiJy seen a 
certain Christian commitment from 
Protest Funding Cut
many at our University may not be "The Failure of Notre Dame" heartening improvement in the so committed. presents a dangerous conclusion: kinds of services offered to the I .; 
Fr. Len Kuberski That no course on this campus · handicapped. The social value of should be presented without "the such services is unquestioned, Dear Editor: objective truth of Catholic faith.'' offering, as they do, the hope and 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii... 
dave bender
How can we find the truth if we I imagine that this would result the promise that early intervention, start off by saying that everyone in a course schedule totally con­intensive special education, and Edmund Burke once wrote that that the reason for the decreaseelse must be wrong? We wouldn't sisting of titles such as "Catholi-constructive physical and occupa-"Evil persists because good men was to enable the Governor to leave even know what they've· said! The cism and Hume," "Catholicism tional therapy will help our handi-do nothing." All of us here at this office with a nice surplus in the
basis of Christianity is to accept t-.
and Camus," "Catholicism and capped children and adults realize University profess to be good men state treasury so as to enhance his ...
and understand other people, not 
Freud,''. their full potential. -and women. Moreover, we pro­chances at seeking a Senate seatto reject them. And the purpose of claim ourselves as Christians and from Indiana. Whatever the reas­an education is to open our minds, But in class I find it more The effect of the committee's Catholics and name our school oning behind the decision, the fact not close them. We can only find educational to learn Camus decision, if allowed to stand, would accordingly. Today all of us have remains that a cut of this mag­the truth by studying all points of standing on his own merits alone. be to cut off large numbers of 
an opportunity to prove to each nitude spells suffering and mani­view. Then I know precisely what he is handicapped children and adults other and the outside world just fests injustice. As Martin Luther
Christianity is one point of view. saying, not his ideas presented in from precisely those services. Not how sincere and genuine we are in King Jr. put it, "Injustice any­,· 
"
and Catholicism is one part of that. the light of another doctrine. And only is this short-sighted and a our Christian Committment. where is a threat to justice every­It is not necessarily the best one 
then outside of the cla.:;sroom I can return to less-enlightened times; it Late last week the Governor's where.'' 
just because we happen to believe 
compare his ideas with my own Budget Committee of the Indiana Please join us in proclaiming our
is also inhumane. -To reinstitution­
it. Many other people do not 
personal framework of values. State Legislature voted 3-2 to cut Christian committment to the
alize handicapped individuals is
believe it, and we should at least What I'm talking about is the tragic. Yet this will be one of the the funding for the retarded and world. Write letters and sendfind out why. We don•t have to 
freedom to choose. Mr. Cwik isn't mentally ill of Indiana from $21 telegrams to these people inform­
agree, but we should know why we effects of this decision. Numerous million annually to $11 million ing them how you feel. We willtalking about any choice at all.
disagree. If Christianity is the studies have shown that early
Peter Kowalski annually, a $10 million cutback. keep you informed of our progress
truth, then it will withstand the intervention is essential for devel­St Joseph County facilities, includ­to date on this issue and willcriticisms of others, if not, then opmentally disabled children. 
ing Logan Center will have probably seek more support. Thiswe'd better find out why not. 
Nonetheless, there is the clear and 
$750,000 cut from their budgets. is an opportunity that we simply
Mike Donov1111 
present danger that such programs 
The Student Government feels that cannot afford to pass up. This is an 
will have to be abandoned as a
New interhall 
this is an irresponsible and unac­action that touches all of us on aDear Editor: 
If, as Mr. Cwik says, these sport· result of this budget cut. ceptable action by these legislators very fundamental and close to We ask for It is more
The ND/SMC community, which who voted for the cut. home level. important
writers are truly 'diametrically 
your help in the form of letters, than who will start at quarterback
has given so generously of its time 
opposed to the Christian world phone calls, and telegrams to the on Saturday, whether or not we can
and. effort to Logan Center and the
view,' then isn't it even more Governor of the State, Otis Bowen, get USC tickets, and what kind of
important that both sides are Dear Editor: St. Joseph County Council for the and the three individuals who voted judicial system we have. I-amshown? To attend a philosophy Until now the energy and Retarded, must act to help fend off for the decrease in state financial confident that together we canclass where only the Christian ethic excitement that starts food fights • this d.tastrophe. Those legislators support for Logan Center. In the affect a change in decision. _is viewed or championed would has been discouraged. But one who have chosen to increase the very near future we may ask you toindicate to me that the exponent must realize that the food fights state budget surplus at the expense join us in some public display of Those who voted for the cutback:
feared that the Christian mode 
provide aneededoutlet for eniotion­of the state's handicapped citizens ·.
support for the patients of Loganwould break down in confrontation ·al stimuli. In an effort to alleviate must be made aware that this is not Center, perhaps here, quite pos­Senator John Mutzwith the opposition unless preor­
the problem the enthusiasm should acceptable. sibly in the State Capital. Representative William Longdained "the winner." It would also be redirected. Therefore I propose Write to Governor Bowen and to There have been a few reasons Director of the State Budget Com­seem to argue that the Christian that food fights be accepted as an your representatives in the Indiana given for the decision , but all seem mittee John Huie,
ethic and intellectualism cannot co-exist and grow from exposure to interhall sport. Legislature to protest this repre­quite hollow and selfish compared 
hensible decision. to what the cutback will mean to Write to them c/o State House,
each other. Certain times, teams and of the patients, their parents, and the Indianapolis, Ind. 46204Singularity of approach in one's course menus could be organized student volunteers of Logan Cen­Also: Governor Otis Bowen, StateEthanHalmoviewpoints leads to, if you excuse in order to add honor and sports­ter. It has even been suggested Capitol, Indianapolis, Ind. 46204
the phrase, tunnel vision. Biases, ignorance and prejudices result from such narrow mindedness--just 
DOONESBURY by Garry Trudeau 
the sort of things education should be fighting. Don't you agree? Patti Ruocco 
Dear Editor: 

Re: David Cwik's article "The Failure of Notre Dame." Mr. Cwik, it is shocking to know that Notre Dame students are asked to read 
'.. 
Beckett. Descartes, Hume, Kant,
t 
~-Locke, Camus. Marx and Freud.
.... 
( Why don't we burn these books on the steps of .h'2 Administration Building? Let n·-~ •.now what else we ~an add. !L ·' (·ould you have missed Darwin ~~d Einstein? 



Here's your new roommate! 'Little Rascal' or 'Baby Gargantua' wearing a brightly colored Fighting Irish, 
I. U., or Purdue t-shirt 
10.00 each 
Meet your new roommate and rest assured he [or she] will get through school with flying colors! Take your pick of 'Little Rascal' the puppy or 'Baby Gargantua' in red 
1. U., gold-white Purdue or gold-green Fighting Irish t-shirts. And the shirts come off easily so your 
new ---"""r--..__-..., 
roomie can wear the school colors of your chioce. Each plush. stuffed animal is covered in surface washable non-allergenic acrylic and has been quality tested by 
R. Dakin & Co. Get yours today and while you're at it, have 
one sent home or to a friend at another school. Stationery, Ayres Scottsdale Mall 
ELo_____-Jo/ 
o{ 

[ 
[ 0 -v----~
-o] 
'\::e~--~o-;7­
[ 0 


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------, 
L. S. Ayres & Company, Indianapolis, Indiana 46204 Phone Orders 2-6-A-Y-R-E-$ (In Lafayette 447-2141) Please send the following stuffed animals: 
Name. Your Charge Account No.
oua_":.:_·---t-+--___A:=":=;m:=a:='=-3 ____sc_h_o_o'---i'----P-ri-ce_ 
Address . City. . .. State . .........Zip Code . ........ . Total ____
. 
:1·30-Day Charge 2 Option Charge;__~ Check:__; $105 C.Q.D. if under 100.00 af1d
. 

1.00 Handling Charge (If applicable) ____ 
delivered by Ayres. ~ Please send me an Ayres cn.arge appltcation. 4% Indiana Sales Tax. ________ 
Add $100 handling charge if total purchase is $15.00 or less and when sent beyond TOTAL __ ~ ------
Ayres free c;telivery area. g.27_77.N.D.·lOO 
.-..------~--­
--~-------~~--------~--------------~-------------------------­
This is definitely 

Believe It Or Not . • • THESE ARE OUR EVERYDAY LOW PRICES 

STROHS PABST 24 can case ._____ ---5.19 24 can ca5;8 --------5.39 12 pack cans -------2.89 12 pack cans -------2.89
,. 6 pack cans _____ ---1.49 6 pack cans ____ --.:-1.49 
Budweiser 12-pack cans .. ---------'2.98 RETURNABLE BEER 
Busch 1 2 pack cans ___ ---_ -----------2.79 
Sh_,hs ... -----------5.94 Old Milwaukee•••••••5.12
Miller Lite 6 pack cans _-_____ --------1.60 
8ur.Jl•eise! ••••••••••6.82 Blatz •__ •••••• __ •••5.89
Miller 12 pack cans ___ -----. ---------3.19 
Hamms 6 pack cans ___ -___ -__ -------1.39 8b$t~ ....... ~ •• --••••6.82 Miller Lite ••••••••• _6.32 Blatz 24 can case ____ ---_ -----------5.29 Pfeiffets.............3.69 Falstaff ------------5.89 
Olympia Gold 12 pack cans ____ -------3.19 
Hamms •••••••••••••5.94 Schlitz •• _•••••• _....6.82 
Old Style 1 2 pack c.ans _-___ --__ --_---2.75 
Huber ••••••••••-•• -3.59 Ballantine _•• _••• __ •3.58
Falstaff 6-pack cans . ---------------1.201 
Fo1 Deluxe _________3.49 Goebel •••••••••••••4.02
Michelob 6 pack cans _---__ ----------1.79 
Heineken 6 pack cans_---_---_-------3.59 Mill&r • -_•••••••••• -6.80 Rhinelander • _ •••••__ 3.49 COLD KEGS Always on Hand Pabst .• _•••••••••••5.89 
''WE'RE CHEAP • • • ASK OUR COMPETITION!_'' 
JOHN O'HANLON, Class of '65 

·, 
!t:· 
' . 
Tuesday, September 27, 1977 
the observer 

New Ireland program begins today 
term. admissiOn to the program because an opportunity to really get to know The long vacation periods give Irish students are screened the Irish culture and benefit from 
students an opportunity to travel in thoroughly before they may enter it. England and Scotland or on the college. However, students with A meeting . for students in­continent. Weekends can be spent between a 2.5 and 3.0 average are terested in studying in Ireland 
travelling through England. also eligible. 
ciuring the 1978-79 school year will St. Patrick's College, itself, 
be held sometime in early
dates back to 1795. Over the years While in Ireland, the students November, according to Peter. 
it built up an enviable reputation as 
will live in the college's regular Applications will be distributed an outstanding seminary to train 
student housing with the Irish then and must be returned by Feb. priests. In 1966 it was recon­students. In this way they will have 1. 
stituted as a coeducational liberal arts and science college and since then has grown rapidly. It now has 
approximately 1 ,500 students and a 
Students injured in fight
faculty of more than 100. Maynooth is a small medieval Three Notre Dame students were by's manager, the fight spread tocity, bordered by landed estates. 
injured and a South Bend man was include other patrons, but most ofBuses leave from there for Dublin arrested following an incident that the people involved were trying to every hour. Thus, St. Patrick's led to a "free for all" according to break up the original fight. Hecombines the advantages of a small witnesses, at Corby's Bar early called six police from Bridgetinstitution of academic renown with Saturday mornin--:. The studento; McGuire's and said that Wishinthe closeness o( a large city. 
were admitted to St. Joseph's · was arrested outside of the bar.
Since the program is now primar­
Hospital for treatment of a broken Wishin was released Monday mor­ily for sophomores, basic courses nose and facial cuts from broken ning by the S('uth Bend Police and will be offered in many areas which glass. one injured student stated that he fulfill the liberal arts core require­
planned to press charges againstments of St. Mary's and Notre Police would not disclose the him. 
Dame. All classes will be taken cause of the fight, but, according to directly at St. Patrick's with the one Corby's patron, it stemmed Also, Sweeney expressed a con­
cern for the safety of the Corby's
Irish students enrolled there, and from a disagreement between a 24 will be taught by St. Patrick's year old South Bend resident, patrons and "applauded the stud­
faculty. · Kevin Wishin, and a Dillon ents' effort to break up the fight.'' No property was damaged accord­
Applicants with a 3.0 average or resident. better were given preference for According to "Sweeney," Cor-ing to Sweeney. 
Crude oiftax Considered 
[continued from page 3] welfare program for the big oil somers $39 billion. To avoid companies.'' depressing the economy, Carter
Even before that vote, Long had cautioned his colleagues that if the The House passed the crude oil proposed that the bulk of that 
tax were removed, "sooner or later tax in basically the form outlined by money be returned to Americans we're going to have to put it back in Carter. In three steps, the price of through the income tax system, or there won't be an energy bilL" U.S. produced crude oil would be with about $22 going the first year Republicans, sensing the out­raised from the current average or• to each adult American. come, had been pressing for a vote about.$8.50 per harrell to the world The rebate scheme has never 
for several days. They viewed the price, which now is about $14.40. been popular in Congress, al­tax proposal, in the words of Sen. ... The most noticeable effect of the though it barely survived a vote in William V. Roth (R.-Del.),as"an­tax would be to raise the price of a the House. 
other ripoff of the middle class." gallon of gasoline by seven to nine Conservatives said if petroleum 
is taxed, the money ought to be
The vote came after a two hour cents. In fact, economists say, the funneled to the energy industry as
discussion of a complex plan drawn tax would be felt as higher prices an incentive to increase production up by the committee staff as a way for anything made of petroleum and develop new fuels. Liberalsof phasing out the tax. with the exception of heating oil, wanted to use the tax to finance taxRoth called the alternative an which would be exempt. 
''Alice in Wonderland contrap­· Between 1978 and 1982, the tax revision, Social Security and other social programs. 
tion" that would be attacked as "a would be expected to cost con--· 
\ 
by Jean Powley St. Mary's Editor 

Nine St. Mary's students and nine Notre Dame students left the United States today for a year of study at St. Patrick's College, 
need resumes in a hurry? 
•

•nsly· 
pr1nts• 
the wiz of the printing biz! 

rag bond 2 5 -8 1/2 X 1 1 $2. 55 203 N. Mam SoBend 289-697 
Maynooth, Ireland. The 18 are the 
first members of the ND-SMC 
community to participate in the 
new study-abroad program for 
sophomores, sponsored jointly l>y 
St. mary's and Notre Dame. 

The group will spend the first 
week in Dublin for orientation 
purposes, according to Sister M. 
Alma Peter, coordinator of the 
program. During this time they 
will hear lectures, attend concerts 
and Irish dances, take tours, visit 
museums, attend a performance at 
the Abbey Theatre and have a 
meeting with the Prime Minister 
and the President of Ireland. 

Once their official introductions 
to the country have been made, 
they will travel 14 miles to May­
nooth. The school year will begin 
Oct. 3. 

The first term which lasts until mid-December is called the Michaelmas term. It is followed by a three-week vacation. The Hilary term begins in mid-January and ends at Easter, followed by another three-week vacation. Finally, from Easter until mid-May is the Trinity 

(SOCIAL MEMBERSHIP AVAILABLE $1.00) 
NOTICES 

Accurate, fast typing. Mrs. Donoho. 232-0746. Hours: 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. 
U. of Mich. grad. in Russian will tutor Russian students. Studied in Leningrad. ·call 683-4332 or 233-9948. Ask for Melanie Lewis. 
Come to Vic's birthday party on Tuesday, September 27, at Vegetable Buddies (downtown across from the Big Hole). No cover charge. $.25 beers. 
Help a skeptic, anyone who took the Dynamic Speed Reading Course, please give me a call. Pahl 6755. 
----...--------------­
Typing. Reasonable rates. Call 8051. 

Sewing repairs. Reasonable. Call 8051. 
NEED QUALITY TYPING? Executary, Inc. Professional Typing Service IBM Correcting Selectrics $.85 per page minimum. Call 232-0898. "When you want the Best" 
---·-----------­
LOST & FOUND 

Lost: One SMC class ring. Initials lD ­class of '78. Reward offered. Call 4-5425. 
Found: On sidewalk 1976 Holy Cross preparatory class ring. Call Denise 4-5402. 
Lost: One SMC calss ring, initials CFN, '78. Reward. 4-5413, Cathy. 
Lost: Umbrella. Brown &off-white. Call John 1848 (around midnite) 
WANTED 

Person needed with 9:02 a.m. & 10:10 
a.m. free on MWF. Contact Audio Visual Center, 6423. 
Wanted: 2" GA ticket• : Michigan 
State, Navy, or Georgia Tech. game. Will pay top$$$. Call Pat 8377-8378. 
Roommate for 3bedroom house at Corby and Hill. Male grad. preferred. $85 per month. Call 288-2991 eves. 
CASH: For two GA tix to ANY home game! Call Mark 287-4118. 
Part-time Assistant Swim Coach for Michiana Marlin Swim Club. Pay based upon experience and is negotiable. Transportation necessary. Hours from 
4:30 to 7:00 Monday through Friday. Attendance at swim meets optional. Contact Richard S. Dennen at 288-9654. 
Need 2 rides after USC to Hartford, Ct. Marybeth 6877. 
BIG MONEY MURF needs USC tickets. Call 234-8858 anytime. 
Part-time -must be willing to work weekends. See Mr. Randazzo. Forum I & II Cinema 52709 U.S. 31 North. 
Wanted SC tickets, will pay premium. Call collect 714-498-3000. 
Used 35 mm camera in good condition. Japanese makes ok. Chris 277·3604 or 272-9895. 
Need good but inexpensive stereo. Call Mike 1935. 
Desperately need USC tickets. Call 4-4774. 
Wanted: 2 USC tix, will pay big bucks. Ron 8711. 
Big money for 4 Mich. State GA tlx. Call Jacob 8720. 
I'll pay extra for good GA Mich State tix. Joan 1280. 
. Needed: 1-4 Ux for Army game. Call Marla 1318. 
GA's and stud. USC game. $$$$. Mick 2743. 
Need 4 GA tix to Michigan State. Call 
classified ads 
Steve 8610. Need $$$? Sell me 2 GA USC tix. Call 

Frank 277-4826.  
Need six Southern Cal. 7051.  tix.  Mark 287­ 
Need 2340.  2 Southern  Cal.  tix.  Beth  272­ 

Wanted: 4 USC tickets. Will pay good bucks. Call Jim at 1419. 
One MSU student football ticket. Will pay $$(MONEY) or laughs. Call Mary 1313. 
Wanted: Two tickets to Michigan State game. either GA or student ticket. Call Mark 1436. 
Wanted: 5USC tickets. Call Paul at 1424. 
Wanted: 4 Ga tickets for Southern Cal. Will pay good bucks. Call 1423, aks for Mike. 
Wanted: Six GA tickets to USC. Call Jeanne at 4-4001. 
Need 4 USC GA tix. Will pay $, call Ron 1423. 
I will be forever In debt 1D you if you sell a pair (2) of Ga tickets for the USC game. My parents want to come and cheer for Old Notre Dame. Will pay $$$$$. Call Mary 1313. 
Needed: Five GA tix for USC. Call Telana 4-5745. 
Wanted: Desperately need 1 student ticket for USC-NO game! Will pay$. Call 4-4124. 
Wanted: Desperately need 6 Ga tix to any home game. Call Chris at 1158. 
Need a plethora of Mich. St. tix. Call Steve at 8422. 
-----.-----------­
desperate: need up to 6 USC tickets ·will pay excellent price. call frank 277-2576. 
Need GA tickets for Michigan State. Call 
1996. 
Desperately need 4 Ga Air Force tix. 
Marilyn 234-()982. 
Need 1 Ga Mich. State tix. Call Pam 
4-4146. 
Desperately need 3 GA Michigan State 
tix. Call 4786. 
Need MSU GA's. Please call Helen, 7260. 
Need one student ticket to Michigan 
game. Will pay$$. Call lenny 277-2397. 
FOR SALE 
4 Goodyear GT radial, G60-15, list at $98 each, only $75. Pair of speakers, $100. For info, call 287-5719. 
Big bonanza sale: 1) Olympus 28 mm f 3.5 Zviko lens fits all OM-1 and OM-Z cameras, $100. 2) Azuki 10 soeed bicycle Marauder rims, ideal saddle, $90. 3) television, 19 in. B & W perfect picture $60. 4) bunch of photo stuff, filters bulk film loaders, best offers. Call John J. Smith at 8315. 
PERSONALS 
Pat, Don't let the guys rag you about your cooking. You make a mean chocolate chip cookie. Thanks a millionIIll 
G 
Ephllant. Friends like to know more than your comings & goings!! SiQned, 
S1gmund and Freud 
2nd floor lyons Boyal Archway now accepting interviews for section sweet­heart. In person interviews granted 11 
p.m. to midnight, Monday-Thursday. Equal opportunity exploiter. 

Rent the Rowing Club bus. Reasonable rates. 24 passenger. Rob 8922. · 
Was that T-Moore I saw ~:·t~uetting In 
Keenan Hall??? How swaet!ll 

How was that, Tom??? G 
Dirty carpet: steam shampoo cheap ($2 & up) Free estimate. Jim 8504. 
To all those in Pangvorn, Lewis & in between who convinced me that turning "halfway to 40" can be great. I love you all. Mare 
Hank &Duffy. Hi guys!!! What's new on second floor?? Did you see T-Moore's personal?? Was that abusive or what? G 
Desperately need 2tickets to Mich State. Will pay $$. Call Meg -4-4046. Please!! 
Fencing team: Thanks for the support, The Cross Country Team 
Katie, This OC senior might not know the difference between lyons or lewis but he knows he had a good time last Friday night. Hope we share many more before the semester ends. 
Frank 
Hey, Pete, Is that your sister I see swimming all the 
time?  G  
Rich,  
Happy  21st  from  the  Fantastic  Five.  

Joining our fatality list? 

Murf, Hope you've recovered from your disease G 
To the Craig Cutthroat, Happy 21st and many more! Blade and Dave 
·--------------
Hiya, Jeffie!!! 

VIctor Vandal, Fire up 211 He's never been 21 before, now he's got the key to the doorl Best wishes from the Rock 'n Roll Pllace. 
Krazy Kate, Are you sure those were just cold pills?DB 
~--iiiiiiiiii&iiiiiiii=" "iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiliiiiiiiil 


... 

-.-----~-­

Tuesday, September 27, 1977
the obsanrar 


Harriers romp over Spartans, 16-43 
by Gregory Solman 

Sports Writer "I'm getting more and more confi­dent in this team as the season progresses,"boasted a proud Joe Piane--and with proper justifi­cation, after he had witnessed the Irish's 16-43 devastation of Mich­ichigan State 

For the Irish, it was only the second time in ten years that the cross country team had defeated strong-running Spartans. The other victory, two years ago and also under the coaching auspices of Joe Piane, couldn't have been more convincing. 
j 
After Michigan state's Jeff Pullen 24:27 time earned him a hard-fought first place berth, the Irish took over. Pullen's closest teammate showed up fifteen places later. Sandwiched between the two hapless Spartans were nothing but Irish--fourteen of them to be exact. The Irish did what they hope to do for the remainder of the season: run in groups and dominate the 
scoring. Though the Irish grouped their first eight finishers within 49j
1 
seconds of each other, Piane insists that Irish fans have not seen 
the best. "We ran well, obviously," espoused Piane, ''buth there were still three of four guys that could have run better than they did." One of the runners that did run up to expectation was Dennis VanderKraats, whose 24:36 time earned him the second spot. "The camaraderie on this team is the best since I've been here," the junior VanderKraats spon­taneously said, ''Because of this, the burden of running so many miles has become more enjoyable.'' VanderKraats assessed the team's chances by saying, "The avoidance of injury as well as a 
sustained effort will put us in contention for national con­tention.'' 
Following VanderKra~s were freshmen Charlie Fox and Pat Sullivan, Dan Horgan, Steve Welch, Chuck Aragon, Mike Maney, Mark Maney, Mark Novak 
and Joe Strohman. 

Aragon, a native of Mexico, is 
only one of the freshman phenom­
enons that compose the nucleus of 
this strong Irish team. 
''I'm looking for improvement this year,'' commented Aragon, "My goals are to see our team make the nationals and to take thirty seconds off of my time." Aragon's 1:49 half-mile wiJI do nothing to hurt the track team this 
\ . . 
spnng, etther. The win for the Irish should 
prove inspiration for their next event, the Notre Dame Invita­tional, the largest intercollegiate ~ross-country meet in the natio11. 
"We'll be facing some pretty stiff competition this year,'· related Piane, "Michigan and Edinboro State College have fine squads but I have ~reat confidence in our guvs. I'm optimistic about the meet." 
Piane admitted that he was at a loss to explain the total humiliation of Michigan State. 
"I was confident that we would win, but I never expected to beat them that badly by that margin.'' With over fourty teams expected to show for the October 7 invita­tional, the challenge lies ahead for the Notre Dame harriers. 

Ticket exchange announced 
Any Notre Dame graduate, law or sophomre student who pur­chased a basketball 1Jleacher seat this summer and would like to exchange that seat for one in the Lower Arena and pay the $7.50 difference, should report to the second floor of the ACC on Monday, Oct. s. 
There are approximately 200 seats inJhe Lower Arena available There is a good possibility that a
to students. These seats will be exchanged on a first come-first few bleacher seats will become serve basis until they are ex­available after the above exchange hausted. has taken place. 
Any Notre Dame student who did Information regarding the actual not purchase a season ticket during distribution of the student tickets, the summer and who has not tickets to the Nov. 18 Russian contacted the Ticket Manager game and tickets to the games about a seat should come to his played d~ring the vacations will be office immediately. forthcommg. 

Michigan State eyes Irish 
EAST LANSING, Mich. AP With marc~ back to .colle.ge football ticking off on the fingers of o~e their next two games against Notre prommence. At thts pomt, he says, hand the number of MSU players m Dame and Michigan the Spartans playing well and improving is the their third year of action. "It's of Michigan State ha~e a chance to ~oal--with ~n. upset victory or two hard to talk a~out the. national gain some national prestige JUSt gravy tf tt happens. scene when we re worrted on a 
But coach Darryl Rogers ~ays he "This is a ~ery ten~er program, day-to-day basis. doesn't have time to plot MSU's very young, he satd Mof1day, "If we win -a football game, 
Ted. Robinson ==================:=====:===:================================================================:=:=:===:::::::==== ~::v:~~~~ f :~np~:::, ·t~:.! .we can
1 
Not that Rogers assumes his

The Greatest 
team will lose to Notre Dame. He'd never admit that, and looking at the ·.·.-.·.•.·.·.·•,•oooo••••oo•oo••••• ........................ One man's u,·ew Irish' less than overpowering show-
v.·.·.·.·.·.·:·.·=·=·=·=·=·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:-. .,. ' ing this year it might not even be 
· Sports legends are easy to create, but difficult to destroy. Mickey 
Mantle, Willie Mays, Johnny Unitas, and Oscar Robertson are all prime 
examples of superstars who had to be removed from the active ranks with 
a crowbar. None of them followed the example of Ted Williams, Stan 
musial and Jimmy Brown, all of whom fled from the limelight before their 
skills eroded. · 

The s~me problem now confronts Muhammed Ali. The last two years 
have not been kind to Ali. After the Methodical destruction of the 
supposedly invincible George Foreman, Ali has proceeded to beat 
Europe's answer to Duane Bobick, Richard Dunn, light-hitting Jimmy 
Young, Ken Norton and Alfredo Evangelista. Let us not forget the farcical 
match with Antonio Inoki which resemble a Gong Show act. 
Just stating that Ali regvistered victories over the aforementioned 
people is unfair. Dunn and Evangelista were unproven fighters without a 
reason for being in the ring with Ali. In fact, if Evangelista coul~ have 
punched hard enough to deck a wino, he may have beaten Ali. Many 
thought Young bested Ali, but you don't win a heavyweight championship 
by ducking outside the ropes. Many of the same people thought Norton bested Ali and they may have been right. · . 
Last May, all doubts ab out Ali's deterioration were erased. At the Capital Centre, Ali fought Evangelista for 1 round and toyed with Evangelista for 14 more. Ali was overweight and his punches ahd no sting. Unfortunately for Evangelista and "Rocky"fans, Alfredo would have had trouble punching his way past a show~r curtain. It became evident that evening that Ali was deceiving a loyal f<'llowing of fans. 
So, why is he still fighting? Because boxing needs hir . Promoters will line up stiffs for miles and wave millions in the air for the opportunity to get Ali in the ring. This is a critical period for boxing in its attempt to regain the credibility it lost in the Don King fiasco. And who is Ali to turn 
down the savior role? 

But ia Ali good for boxing? That question is answered by fans and television. There are still hard-core boxing fans who will pay astronomical prices to see Ali in person. The TV networks will pay astronomical prices to televise Ali's fights with Evangelista, Dunn and Earnie Shavers into American homes. No other boxer could command that degree of publicity .. 
Now, it is Shavers' turn to entertain American by acting for 45 minutes with Ali. If Ali is in the same condition as he was for the Evangelista fight, he'll just stay away from the man dubbed "the acorn." If he feels good, he'll land enough punches to win a unanimous decision. 
Haw good is Shavers? Three years ago, he was knocked out in the first round by Jerry Quarry. When last seen on television Quarry was peddling shaving cream on a face that absorbed more punishment than most boxers 
see in a lifetime.: ­-. Thursday night in Madison Square Garden, a legen may be ~rmanently destroyed. If it happens, boxing will have lost its best hope for survival. Boxing fans should hope Ali can crack "the acorn." 
warranted. 
Notre Dame staggered to a 19-9 win over Pittsburgh, got beat by Mississippi, and Saturday had to come from behind to beat Purdue. The Irish have given up almost 18 points a game and 191 yards a game passing, and have ·suffered some injury losses. 
Still, Rogers said, "they are one of the best football teams in the country. I think they've got great people." 
Rogers noted that the MSU­Notre Dame rivalry is well-known nationally, thanks to ABC tele­vision, which has broadcast 11 of the contests including the 1966 "game of the century." In fact, h.e said while at San Jose he figured 1t was 'a bigger rivalry than Michigan­Michigan State-a perception that was corrected when he took the MSU job. 
Rogers spent a lot of time Monday shaking his head over his team's first half play in Saturday's 34-16 win over Wyoming. The Spartans, now 2-1, were down 16-0 at intermission, and Rogers said later it was the worst display of football he'd evs:r been associated with. 
''After watching the game films," he said Monday, "it was even wbrse than that.'' Rogers took no credit for the team's turnaround at halftime, noting the players realized how inept they'd been. ''They were embarrassed by "their performance," he said. ''They just went-in and sat in front of their lockers without saying a word.'' 


bv Tonv Lopez Sports Writer 

Well, all of the football actgion this weekend wasn't just at Purdue. As a matter of fact, the interhall football season opened this past Saturday. 
Flanner sneaked by Stanford 8-7. 

Outstanding players for Flanner were Rich Neville, Chris Luhniing and AI Shumaker. All three players played the entire game contributing to both the offe3nse and the defense. Flanner sneaked by Stanford 8-7. Outstanding players for Flanner were Rich Neville, Chris Luning and AI Shumaker. All three players played the entire game contri­buting to both the offense and the defense. Flanner socred after a 65 yard drive with an eight yard pass from quarterback Mark Coons to Marty Dytrych. Coons brought it in for a two point conversion. 
Stanford scored fir4st with a two yard run up the middle by speedy Ray Olui. According to Phil Volpe, Flanner coach, "Both teams were evenly matched and it was a well palyed game. The score could have gone either way.'' 
Elsewhere on the North Quad, Keenan dominated Holy Cross 7-0. Mike Sassaller, Keenan's fresh­man running back, had an out­standing game. He carried 13 times for109 yards. Quarterbvack Greg Really went 3 for 6 and 27 yards for Keenan, but it was the awesome Keenan defense that held Holy Cross to negative yardage. 
Zahm slipped by Cavanaugh 8-0. 
Zahm' s signal caller connected with his man Steve Cicciarelli and put his team on the board for the only score of the gaame. Stan Kudlacz found the hole for the two point conversion. The game was called in the final minute of play when a free-for-all erupted on the field. 
Dillon ran by Fisher by a score of 14-0. Quarterback Bill Griffin rfan it for the first score of the game. Then a Griffin pass to Tim Holyrod scored a second touchdown. Jaime Helper contributed tyo Dillon's cause by kicking two extra points. But again, ti was defense that won :he game as Fisher was held to negat ve yardage. 
St. ~ 1's-Howard just squeaked hy Sorin, 6-0. Outstanding players in this game were Mike Oddi who 
;ked an unbelievable 70 yard punt, a record for interhall football. 
~ tn Romanelli had a65 yard run for Sorin which was called back bee a use of a motion penalty. It could have turned the game the other way, had the touchdown counted. 
3oth teams were evenly matched Md it was a hard hitting game. Alumni dominated Pangnborn, 7-0 . Alumni scored on a tight end 
p. <>s from quarterback Bob Dvoraz to Mike 11anachek. Coach Pete Calafati gives the credit to the superb 1 ·tg of the offensivce 
Hn, for victory. Alumni dominated aud movced the ball up and down the field. The key players for Pangborn were quart­
erback  John  Franco,  who  con­ 
nected  for a twenty  five  yard  
gainer, ··with  wide ·receiver  Mac  

Pienizek. Also, running back Tom Edwards deserves honorable men­tion for his fine game on Sunday. 








