--------~------------~----------------~-------­
CBS _president urges flexibility 
by Kathy Mills Executive Editor 

John A. Schneider, president of the CBS/Broadcast Group,sized the necessity of personal and career flexibility in the business world in his address, entitles "Richard Nixon, Archie Bunker, and Wall Street: A Day in the Life of a Broadcaster," yesterday in room 122 Hayes-Healy. 
"I think the message is clear: Don't be a technocrat. Don't be a business school haven. Don't be narrow. Keep your eyes open. Keep looking around you, and listening to what people are saying, whether you like what they are saying or not," Schneider stated in his talk, which was sponsored by the Graduate School of the College of Business Administration. 
"You have to continue to grow, even if you have that great 'pass­port' called an MBA," he told the capacity crowd. 
Schneider described his job with CBS as the type of job that demands flexibility. He told of how when he was the general manager of the CBS-owned television station in Philadelphia he had asked the then-chairman of CBS, William S. Paley, just how Paley wanted him to handle the job. " 'What do you want,' I asked him," Schneider related. ' 'Do you want me to run a station that offers the best in public service?: Or do you want me to turn in the highest profits and audience ratings? Or do you want me to be a general manager who is deeply involved in community affairs, a fellow with high visibility in this city?'" 
Paley did not hesitate for a moment, Schneider said. Paley replied, " 'We want them all.' " 
The "we-want-them-all" jobs are not limited to broadcasting, according to Schneider. For example, he said, a college presi­dent has this type of job; he must be a scholar, a fund-raiser, an administrator. a public relations man and even a politician. 
Besides being president of the CBS/Broadcast Group. Schneider is also a vice-president and director of CBS. He is responsible for all broadcasting operations of CBS, with the presidents of the CBS Television Network, CBS News, CBS Television Studios and CBS Radio reporting to him. 
He is a trustee and member of the Executive CGmmittee of Notre Dame and vice-chairman of the board of trustees and a member of the Executive Committee of te American Film Institute. He is also a director of CBS Foundation, Inc., and a member of the International Radio and Televison Society and the Broadcast Pioneers. 
Schneider holds a Bachelor of 
Science degree form Notre Dame 
and an honorary Doctor of Laws 
degree from Trinity University in 
San Antonio, Texas. 
Anticipating Changes 
In his address, Schneider also stressed the importance of antici­pating changes. "What you people -the business leaders ofthe 1980's and 1990's -have to ask yourselves is: What can you do to prepare yourselves to handle the problems that are not even envisioned today?" he stated. He noted that he faces many questions in his job which could not have not have been anticipated when he was a student as Notre Dame. 
"One thing is to develop an entrepreneurial sense -to know about society's changes-perhaps even before they happen. A good entrepreneur has to be able to synthesize and innovate and use intuition," he continued. "The great entrepreneurs have always been able to do this." 
Schneider also spoke of the importance of education. "And most of all. don't stop learning once you've earned your MBA," he said. "Your degree is an aid, not a crutch. I wouldn't want to be operated on by a docor who had learned nothing since he graduated from medical school in the 1930's. And I wouldn't want to invest in a business run by someone who had not learned anything since he or she graduated from school 20 or 30 years ago," he added. 
He said college and graduate school are most valuable because they can expand the individual's frame of reference. ''They can build a foundation for his or her creative and intellectual capacities, so that the graduate can face any situation better prepared than if he or she had not gone on to college or graduate school," he remarked. 
However, more importantly, higher education is the best way to develop one's capacities to reason, to think, to create, to appreciate and to enjoy, he stated. 

"That's quite a prescription, you might say," he continued. "You might ask yourself: How can I keep up with the demands of my job, and the changes in society, and my own quest for a more fulfilling life? What qualities does the business world want of me? And the only answer I can give you, ladies and g;ntlemen, is 'We want them all.' 
Conflicts Discussed Schneider also discussed the conflicts he faces in his job which call for diversity. --He compared it to driving a troika, a Russian carriage pulled by three horses, but the horses seem to be trying to gallop off into different directions. 


"That three-way tug-of-war aJ­fects everything we do,'' he said. "CBS is a publicly-owned ·corpora­tion, with a responsibility to its shareholders. We have to be concerned about their interests. in 
Hayes-Healv _yesterday. (photo by Debbie Krilich)[continued on page 8] 

by Jack Pizzolato Senior Staff Reporter 

After nine hours of deliberation, the Student Union Appointment Board yesterday selected sophomore Tom Gryp as the Student Union's new director. Gryp will assume the position, presently held by Ken Ricci. on April I. 
Gryp was one of six students who applied and were interviewed for the SU Directorship. The Appointment Board originallv planned to choose the new SU directorship when it met last Sunday. but after almost six hours of discussion it could not come to a decision. The selection came yesterday after a second meeting which lasted three hours. 
In accordance with SU policy. the final vote was not announced. but the Board did agree that a two-thirds majorit~· was necessary for selection. 
The SU Appointment Board. which meets exclusively each year to choose a new Student Union 

Tom Gryp will assume duties as Student Union Director Friday, April 
1. (photo by Debbie Krilich) 

director, consisted of: Student·J3ody President Mike Gassman; Student Body Treasurer Eric Ryan; SU Comptroller Marianne Morgan; SU Associate Direc­tor Walt Ling; Student Body President-elect Dave Bender; Student Body Vice-President-elect Tom Soma; Director of Student Activities John Benesh, C.S.C.; Keno Ricci; and Executive Coordinator of the Hall President's Council (HPC) Keefe Mont­gomery. Montgomery sat-in for HPC Chairman, J.P. Russei(wlio had applied for the SU director's post but later withdrew his name. 
After the appointment, Gassman stated that the decision was an extremely difficult one to make. "TI)ere were too many good candidates," he said "Gryp was the best of the best." Gassman also noted that Gryp seemed to.ftave a good 1eadership 
·capacity and a "superior attitude.'' "He (Gryp) was well prepared, well researched, had good proposals and showed a lot of interest in. the position," he 
-further added. 
a hard one. "We were looking for someone who could work with people and handle major decision~." he said. Ricci called Gryp "the best guy for the position." "I think he'll do an admirable job," he continued, "And I will help in any way possible." 
Gryp was "shocked" and "overjoyea oy the Appointment Board's decision. "I consider it the challenge of my life," he said. 
An accounting major, Gryp had no prior experience in the Student Univn, but has served on the Keenan Judicial Board for two years and is an alternate on the University Appeals Board. He lives in South Bend and plans to devote time to the Student Union this summer. 
Gryp said, as director, he would emphasize "opening up the Student Union and bringing the organization together." "I will be working very closely with the commissioners and with the Board of Directors," he said. "I want them to feel their 
opinion really means something.'' 
Gassman stated that he thought this emphasis on greater use of the SU Borad of Directors was ''the best way to determine policy and keep a smooth relationship between the Union and the student government.'' He also noted that it was an important consideration in Gryp's selection. 
Although Gryp plans no major structural changes in the Student Union, he has proposed written job descriptions in order to clearly outline responsibil­ities and the drawing-up of a comprehe11sivr structural chart delineating the "chain of com mand" within the organization-. 
-Gryp has made no definite decisions on who he will appoint fo•:the Associate Directorship or any of the four SU commissioner's posts. "Everyone will be considered," he stressed. Those appointments are subject to the approval of another SU selelcti«m board. 
"If we keep tr;wk of what we're here for-to work 
John A. Schneider urged business students to retain flexibility in their Soma remarked that Gryp_ had "the best foi: the studel)ts and serve them-many of the areerr1n a talk yesterday. (photo by Debbie Krilich) combination-of personality, bumness background conflicts of the nast won't come about," Grypand 1111thustlsm." Ricci agreed tftat the dedsion was 
concluded. 

Thursday, March 31, 197'7
the observer 
~--News Briefs---... 
l=====~============·=-~~~4atiomd· 
Oswald friend commits suicide 
PALM BEACH, F1a. [API -A former friend of Lee Harvey Oswald apparently killed himself within hours after an investigator for the House Assassinations Committee attempted to interview him, authorities ruled yesterday. The Palm Beach County medical examiner said an autopsy of Geroge de Mohrenschildt, 65, showed the fatal wound was "conducive to that of a self-inflicted gunshot," sheriff's Lt. Richard Sheets said. 
Sheets said his office would consider the autopsy results before deciding next week whether to close the case. He also said a tape recorder being used to record a television program in an adjacent room picked up the sounds of de Mohrenschildt firing the gun. 
Pay those utilities! 
NEW YORK [API To thousands ot Americans the end of the long, hard winter of 1977 also will mean that their gas and electric service will be cut off, unless they pay their overdue bills. Many of the nation's utilities, banned by some states from, shutting off service until spring, have just begun tough campaigns to collect from their customers -or disconnect them. An Associated Press survey found that utilities have 3 percent to 20 percent more uncollected bills this ~ar than in the past. 
Carter ponders natural gas tax 
WASBINGTON [API -The Carter administration is considering regulations and taxes to drive up the prices of oil and natural gas and drive down their use, a government source said yesterday. 
Rough calcaulations based on proposals under consideration indicate they might add another six cents per gallon to the cost of gasoline and other petroleum fuels, and another $16 per year to the average household gas bill. 
,. On Campus Today-.. 
all day -conference, "jungian and archetypal psychology," topics include "the devil and the medieval psyche," by prof. jeffrey russell, "priapus," by rafael lpez-pedraza, and "astrology and psychology," by katherine de jersey, CCE, continues aprin 1-3. 
12:15 
pnl -mass, celebrated by fr. griffin, Iafortune ballroom. 

12:15 
pm-lecture, "images of women in the modern novel," by terry phelps, library lounge. 


3 pm -workshop, resume clinic, sponsored by smc student affairs, student affairs conference room. 
4 pm-'lecture, "political, linguistic and cultural aspects of strasbourg, a frontier city in europe," by prof . maurice golle, directeur, institut international d'etudes francaises, university of strasbourg, library faculty lounge. 
6:30 
pm -workshop, anxiety management, sponsored by smc counseling center, smc clubhouse. 

6:30 
pm -meet your major, psychology, room 119 haggar. 


7:30 & 

10 pm -kubrick film festival, "a clockwork orange," washington hall, admission $1. 
7:30pm -lecture, "skepticism and liberal education," by christopher derrick, author, critic and lecturer of london, sponsored by student union academic commission, library aud. 
7:30pm -meet your major, modern and classical languages, room 205 o'shag. 
8 pm. opera workshop, "dido and aeneas," by henry purcell, o'laughlin aud., continues april 1-2. 
8 pm -meeting, philosophy honor society, "the right to be unhealthy," by prof. richard degeorge, architecture aud. 
B:JO pm • meet your major, black studies, library lounge. 
8:JO pm -women's night, informal discussion with women faculty members, farley middle lounge.
10 pm-

midnight -. nazz, second jazz combo, nazz. [1;.1!:15 am • 2 am • nocturne nightflight, wsnd-fm 88.9, steve slater plays the best in -progressive music. 
Far1ey Hall to sponsor 'Women~s Night' tonight 
Farley Hall will host a "Wo­men's Night" tonight, at 8:30 
p.m. in its middle lounge-. with women faculty members as guest speakers. 
Carol Moore, assistant professor of history, Ellen Ryan, associate professor of psychology and Moria Geoffrion, assistant professor of art, are among those scheduled to speak, according to Melanie Jorgensen, Farley speakers com­missiont:r. The program, ac­cording to Jorgensen, is to give students a chance to talk to women in their majors wh have made a success of their careers. 
The speakers will give short talks on women's role and women in careers, followed by a question period and concluding with a coffee hour to give those attending an opportunity to talk informally with the guests.. 
. 1 ~~~ . -~·-1 
Inside space doubled 
Corby's r~opens this weekend 
by Bob Varettonl Senior Staff Reporter 

Corby'swill reopen either tomor­
row or by Monday, acording to Jim 
Oil, manager of the tavern. 

The bar has been closed for a 
month due to a change in manage­
ment. During this time, the 
tavern has been renovated. 

Even though Corby's wiii open this weekend. .Dil said, some renovations will not be completed. The grand opening won't be for another week, possibly April 14, Dil added. 
Dil said new plumbing, including new restrooms, and electrical lines ·have been installed. 
"We couldn't believe the condi­tion of the electrical system when 
Corby's tavern will reopen under new management this weekend. · The inside of the bar has been renovated since it closed a month ago. (photo by Debbie Krilich) 
Jane Rizzo was eleded the new president of lyons Hall, not Nand Kelly as was reported in yester­day's issue. 
(*The Observerl 
Night Editor: Joe Bauer _ Asst. Night Editor: Leigh Tun­akan, Frankie {hit the M.P. max) Kebe Layout Staff: Sandy Colson, Rich Barlow Editorial layout: Pat Hanifan Features Layout: Tim "Social Security" O'Reiley Sports Layout: Ray 0'Brien 

Typists:  Gwen  Coleman,  
Rusty  Espinosa,  Kathy  Eg­ 
bert, Mel Celeste  

Night Controller: Morey 
Blinder 
Day Editor: Marian Ulicny 
Copy Reader: Ray O'Brien, 
joan Fremeau 

Ad Lay,out: Pat Russell lPhotographer: Debbie Krilich) 
The Observer is published Monday through Friday and weekly during the symmer session, except during the exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $20 per year ($10 per semester) from The Obser­ver. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 Second class postage pa1d, Notre Dame. Indiana 465.56 
The Observer is a member oi the Associated Press All rt>production rights are reserved 
'I· 

we toui. the ceiling down," Dil said. "In two months, the place could have burned down.'' 
Inside, the wooden wall has been torn down and the doorway of the brick wall will be widened next week. According to Dil, this will double the space inside Corby's. 
"We. figured to put $10,000 into this," Dil said. "I think we've already passed that.'' 
Oil also plans to put a tireplace along the far south wall of the tavern. He said this will be completed by the start of school next year. 
Next to Corby's, the ·dirt hole has been filled and the fence removed. This hole had been the foundation of a new bar, to be run by the former management of 
-Corby's. However, a city ordi­nance passed in January prohibits ·two bars from being so close 
together. 

Corby's has not reopened ear­lier, Dil explained, because there was some trouble getting a liquor license so soon after the tavern closed. Dil said the Northeast Neighborhood Association was in­fluential in holding up the license. 
The Northeast Neighborhood Association is the same organiza­tion that has recently complained of litter in the Corby-Eddy area. DiJ. said he is aware of the litter problem. 
"I think the manager of every tavern in the area should take the time to see the a'rea around his building is kept clean," Oil said. 
Wonied about Shipping Home Your Belongings 
Your worries are over! Store All Your belongings close to campus. 
At; MASTER 
MINI-WAREHOUSES Self-Service Storage Open 7 Days Located iust forth of State line. Telephone: 683-1959 or 
684-6991. 
BOOKSTORE 
Tolkien Figures 

GMAT•  • OCAT  
wrcr  • SAT  
• REI  

on•IICALBOARDS IAniiiTALIOID 
Our broad range ot programa provi(Ma an umbrella ot tNt~ ing lrnow-how that enabiN w to olter the best preparatiOn a:~~ailab/e no matter which courae ia taken. Over 38 years of exper'ience. and success. Small cl-ea. Voluminous home study materiala. CourMS that are conatantly up­dated. Permanent centers open daya, eveningl & -k­ends all year. Complete tape facilitiN for reviW-d claN leSions and tor use of aupplementary materials. ~ke-ups for milled lessons at our centers. 
SPRING, SUM-MElt WINTER COMPACTS MOST .CLASSES -8 W£EKS BEF. EXAM 
'*******************
LAST CHANCE FOR NEW SPRING 
MeAT. FOUR WEEK INTENSIVE STARTS APRIL 4, 6 p.m. -MON/THURS 
2050 W. Devon 11
! f:tj

Chicago, Ill. 60645 N"Tl 
(312) 764-5151 

· EDUCATIONAL CfNTEIII 
TEST -I'AIIATION Sl'f:CIAL IS TS SINCE IIIli! 

Centers in Major U.S. Cities 
Brezhnev rejects SALT proposals 
development_,_ Flanked by Vice President relations between the two Other American officials, how­by Kenneth J. Freed After receiving news of the Walter F. Mondale, the President countries. ever speculated that the SALTAssociated press Writer 
Moscow breakdown, Carter told said a forthcoming joint communi-Vance said he had been unable.to rejection was related to the earlier reporters that if, following the May que summerizing the Moscow talks reach even his minimum goal of warning. 
MOSCOW [AP] -Soviet leader Leonid I. Brezhnev rejected Ameri­can nuclear arms control proposals yesterday shattering the latest U.S. effort to reach a new strategic arms limitation treaty. 
Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance, who had waited three days for a response to his SALT propo­sals, said both a comprehensive and a more limited approach had been offered but the Soviets "did not find either one acceptable." 
In Washington, President Carter said Soviet failure to negotiate "in good faith" in the next round of arms talks in May could force a speedup in U.S. weapons 
'Second Scene' 
to continue season 

The Notre Dame St. Mary's Theatre Second Scene continues its season this weekend with two presentations. This weekend fea­tures After the Sexual Revolution on Friday and Saturday nights. and Camille and Perdican on Sunday and Monday nights. Both pr_oduc­tions will be presented at Washing­ton Hail on the Notre Dame Campus at 8:00 pm. Admission is free. 
After the Sexual Revolution is a theatricalization of an essay of the same title by Benjamin duMott, a social values writer who contri­butes regularly to the Atlantic Monthly magazine. In M1er the Sexual Revolution, DuMott views the effects of the sexual revolt of 
the  sixties.  It  is  an  episodic  
documentary,  visiting  marriage  
counselors,  wet  T -shirt  contests,  

and a school for pregnant teens. Director Frederic Syburg has the actors regularly change character from narrator to subject and back again in order to animate and highlight DuMott's wry humor and words to the wise concerning contemporary sexual mores. 
Camnte and Perdican. by the French romanticist Alfred deMusset, deals with the conflict between ideals and realitv. The heroine, Camille, spurns her long betrothed lover Perdican because she is afraid of the possibility of unfaithfulness in marriage. Perdican contrives a scheme to get Camille to marry him which leads to tragic results. 
Director Bridget Ragan, a senior, sees the play as images of poetry rather than physical action in its creation of dramatic effect. 
The role of Camille will be played by Junior Lisa Colacula, recently noted for her performance in the ND-SMC's highly successful pro­duction of I Do, I Do last summer. Perdican is played by sophomore John Santos, last seen on the ND-SMC boards last spring as Robert in Eugene O'Neill's Beyond the Horizon, a 1976 Second Scene offering. 


Pawar informs students of Indian activities 
envtruutttc::uL.
by Jake Morrissey In addition to personal assis­Staff Reporter 

tance, Pawar continued, the Indian government co-sponsors many art­Dr. H. Pawar, Indian consul for istic and cultural delegations andEducation and Culture. fielded exchanges. The Indo-Americanquestions from approximately 35 committee attempts to exposeIndian students last night in the American audiences to Indian art.
Library lounge. 
dance and music.
Pawar, affiliated with Indian Pawar also -parried questionsEmbassy in New York City, told the concerning India's recent elections, group of the many government in which Indira Gandhi was oustedsponsored activities that are of from office. "I don't think there'sspecial interest to Indian students going to be a change in the fields of studying in the United States. 

education and culture," Pawar 
The Indian government, Pawar noted. "Every government that began, is dedicated toward .equali­comes in will have to be guided by zing educational opportunities. It experts." A new education minis­sponsors students to leave India ter has not yet been appointed, he and go abroad to study in various said. fields such as science, mathematics Pawar concluded his remarks by and medicine. stressing the importance of Notre 
Pawar also stated that the go­Dame Indian students maintaining vernment provides help for Indian close ties with the consulate. "We students with problems in foreign will try to help you in any way we countries. Many times, Pawar can," Pawar said. "Please contact explained, Indian students have us for any assistance you may some difficulties adjusting to a new need." 
setting up a format for continuing An interim nuclear arms control SALT talks. accord expires Oct. 3, but Vance 
He said he would bring the arms said "it is still possible" to reach a control matter up again in May at a SALT agreement before then. meeting with Soviet Foreign Minis­Vance said the United States had ter Andrei A. Gromyko, probably in proposed one plan under which Western Europe. But Brezhnev is negotiations for controls over the the only single leader who would American cruise missile and the normally be able to accept Ameri­Russian Backfire bomber would be can SALT proposals and Vance deferred, but both sides would go noted the Middle East "and other ahead and ratify ceilings on mis­items" would also be on the May siles, bombers and multiple nuc­agench lear warheads, as worked out at 
·· He told reporters he had had an Vladivostock in november 1974. one-hour meeting with Brezhnev, Vance said he then offered his 
· with the Soviet leader "doing all preferred package, which he said the talking" and proposing "no­would have substantially reduced thing new on their side." both nations' overall stockpiles of Vance had said he would stay in strategic missiles and bombers. Moscow longer if progress on the He said it would also have reduced treaty proposals warranted it, but the number of modern, large planned after the Brezhnev meet­ballistic launchers, the number of ing to leave for Western Europe multiple warheads available for Thursday morning, on schedule. missiles and the number of missiles Brezhnev told Vance in a Mon­that could carry such warheads. day meeting that American criti­Vance said he proposed a ban on cism of Soviet handling of human mobile missile launchers now being rights matters made good relations deployed by the Soviet Union and imJ:-•Jssible between the Soviet said he was prepared to ban all Union and the United States. American cruise missiles with in­Vance said the human rights ter-continental range. He said he issue had "not come up" Wednes­had also offered to let the Russians day and the SALT proposals "stood list ways to keep the weapons from on their own feet." being considered bombers. 
r-----:----=aiiiiiiliiiiiiiiliiiiiii 
Cineina ~ 77 ~ PRESENTs 
A 

CLOCKWORK ORANGE 
TheKnighb Men's Hairstyling 
Treat yourself the month of April with a styled haircut and blowstyle combination, and receive a 
discussions, he feels "that the Soviets are not acting in good faith with us, and that an agreement is unlikely, then I would be forced to consider a much more deep com­mitment to the development and deployment of additional weapons." 
The President, added, "But I would like to forego that decision until I am convinced the Soviets are not acting in good faith. I hope they will." 
Earlier the President told a hastily convened meeting of con­gressional leaders that although the American proposals had been rejected, the Moscow talks ''were productive.'' 
would note that "the most impor­tant time-consuming" discussions had dealt with strategic arms limitations. 
Vance denied the proposals had been turned down because of Soviet unhappiness over American human rights criticism. He said the Ru:;sians rejected both propo­sals because "they did not coincide with what they consider to be an equitable deal." 
The Carter administration has stressed its commitment to human rights around the world, and Brezhnev has warned publicly that 
U.S. criticism of internal Soviet affairs could interfere with arms talks and other efforts to 
54533 TERRACE LANE 
Tues., Wed., Sat. 8:30-5:30 Thurs. & Fri. 8:30 • 8:30 
277-J69J 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------, 
Committee to continue assassination probes 
W ASIDNGTON (AP) -A divi­
ded House voted yesterday to give 
its beleaguered assass.inations 
committee two more years to probe 
the murders of P..esident John F. 
Kennedy and civil :-ights leader Dr. 
Martin Luther King. 

The final vote on continuing the 
Wilka selected 
to particio11te 
in Luce p.ogram 
William L. Wilka, a 1972 grad­
uate from the University has been 
selected along with 14 other Amer­
icans to participate in the Luce 
Scholars Program in 1977-78. 

The announcement was made by 
Henry Luce III, president of the 
Luce Foundation in New York City, 
N.Y. 

Wilka, who also graduated from 
Georgetown University Law School 
in 1975 will have a year's exper­
ience in Asia, working in the 
context of widely varied profes­
sional interests. Nine men and six 
women were chosen for thepro­
gram beginning in the fall of 1977. 
After a briefing in Princeton, 
N.J., and an orientation program in 
Asia at the Chinese University of 
Hong Kong, Wilka will depart to 
various locations in Asia, taking up 
an assignment that has been 
tailored for him on the basis of his 
career interest and preparation. 
At the end of his year as a Luce 
Scholar he and other participants in the program are expected to return to the U.S. not as "Asian experts but as citizens and future leaders in their professions whose percep­tions of Asia, of America and of themselves will have been substan­tially sharpened as a result of their 
experience.'' 

The Henry Luce Foundation was founded in 1936 by the late Henry 
R. Luce, co-founder and editor-in­chief of Time, Inc. Since its establishment, the Foundation has made grants totaling $22 million for philanthropic projects in the broad fields of higher education, public affairs, scholarly programs in East Asia and theology. 
SMC Music Dept presents I opera Dido and Aeneas 
fhe St. Mary's College Depart­ment of Music will present three performances of Henry Parcell's tragic opera Dido and Aeneas beginning tonight and op April 1 and 2. The performances, which will be staged "in-the-round," will be at 8 p.m. in O'Laughlin Auditorium. 
According to Susan Stevens, chairman of the music department and director of the Opera Work­shop at St. Mary's, Dido and Aeneas is an excellent introduction to the world of opera. 
Although the Opera Workshop has produced a one-act comic opera as part of the annual Madrigal Dinners for the past four years, the last full-scale operatic production was in April of 1973 with five performances of Mozart's The Magic Flute. "Most college-age singers lack the vocal strength and maturity to fulfill the extreme demands of a large operatic role," said Stevens. "In 1973 we were very fortunate to have students of just the right voice quality and experience to fill the roles in The Magic Flute. We are equally fortunate this year to have singers who are ideally suited to meet the demands of the roles in Dido and Aeneas." 
The role of Dido, Queen of Carthage, will be sung by Cheryl Pesdan, a junior applied voice and piano major at St. Mary's. Valerie Manzie, a senior applied voice major at the College will sing the rol~ of her sister and confidant, Behnda. The, .role of Aeneas, the pnti~e, whQ wins and breaks_ tbe existence of the committee, which has been in hot water since the fir~t day of the current legislative session, was 230 to 181. Without the approval, the committee would have died at midnight Thursday. 
Committee chairman Louis Stokes, D-Ohio, said after the vote he believed the approval came only . because the committee's controver­si;il chief counsel, Richard A. Sprague, resigned earlier in the day in an effort to sav ethe investigation. 
Stokes said an informal survey Tuesday indicated the committee would lose its battle to stay alive by 20 votes if Sprague had remained. 
The final vote came after oppo­nents of the committee tried to get the House to hold a rare secret session to hear evidence the com­mittee had uncovered. The man­euver failed 226-195 after Stokes said the committee feared informa­tion such as the names of witnesses the committee had talked to or 
· wants to talk to would leak out and put their lives in danger. 
Women priests 


commented on St. Mary's art department will sponsor a public opening Saturday from 7-9 pm in Moreau Hall for four senior comprehensive shows. Exhibiting will be [from left] Grace Nardi in photography, Susie Schowalter in ceramics, Mary Anne Brown in printmaking and painting and Barbara Dodge in 
[continued from page 5] etchinJ!. (photo by Debbie Krilich) 
glans because the~ take seriou~y~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
the teachings of the living magi-n 
sterium as one of the chief signs of 
the unity of the church and because, by its very nature, declar­
ation of a Roman congregation is not intended to put an end to the 
study of a problem." 
m!~~~~~ ~~~vi~~i~~..th:ut~~~: 
ludes a statement concerning the 
future. "The objective position taken by the declaration may have 
future, but that will ultimately 
depend on whether the decision of Pope Paul, based on his personal theology and/or the practical pas­toral needs of the whole church. is affirmed by the whole church. For in the final analysis, if the magi­
sterium can intervene to require the consent of the whole church, according to Catholic teaching, nevertheless, its teachings must be consistent with the faith of the whole church. 
heart of Dido, will be sung by Steve Jones, a junior science major at Notre Dame. The Madrigal Sing­ers will make up the chorus of the opera. 
Susan Stevens is the production director, stage director and vocal coach for the opera. The instru­mental musical direction is being handled by Arthur Lawrence, associate professor of music at St. Mary's. Stage and lighting design is by Joe Martin, a sophomor.e at Notre Dame and costumes . are being designed and executed by Gina Jung, a freshman at St. Mary's. 
Due to the receipt of a grant from the International Musicians Union, tickets are available to the public without charge through the St. Mary's ticket office, 284-4176. Those who wish tickets are urged to._ make reservations early since seat­ing is limited to 175 persons per performance. 
Pitt Easter bus: sign-ups Sunday 
Pitt bus sign-ups for Easter break will begin Sunday at 6:30 p.m.'in the LaFortune Hall amphi­theater. Buses arc schelduled to leave Notre Dame on Thursday, . April 7, at 5 p.m. from the Center for Continuing Education, and they will return Monday, April II. at 1 p.m. Prices are $30 for the round trip or $27 for members, A one-way ticket costs $20 for evcry­one 

From Ralph Bakshi, master of animation, comes an epic fantasy in wondrous color. 
A vision. of the world, 10 million years 
• th fut h W • d } th
In e ure, w ere tzar s ru e e
rtb A .. d th f d • •1
ea .. ....~tl e powers 0 ma0 1C prevat
h e f hn 1 · h
OVert e IOrCeS 0 teC 0 Ogy ffi t e
f I b I e I
ina att e 10r wor d supremacy. 


20TH CENTURY-FOX PRESENTS 
A RALPH BAKSHI FILM 
Color by De Luxe® SHOW TIMES 


-~"t.-.. .· . , · ...~ ...•.,.'i.-..'t.."-'ioi.n~"i~~.:·m. ·r,.,.,.,n~s:o:.">"<""'''"'"'~"~··, ......;.,;r.._,. • ··" ~~~~·:,~.~~:.;:.:.~'-'~~~~"'-~~~-~ ~...~~"'-~"\'\.~-..'\,'<~'\'!~. 
~ -~--~---~---­
~-------­

Thursday1 March 31 1 1977 
the observer 
NO community comments on women priests 
by Martha Fanning Managing Editor 

Tn~ Vatican's Sacred Congrega­tion for the Doctrine of the Faith issued a "Declaration on the Question of the Admission of Women to the Ministerial Priest­hood" earlier this year. The doc­ument relates the official position ofthe church in regard to women's ordination and concludes that women will not be ordained into the church. 
In regard to this declaration, several members of the Notre Dame community were asked for their reactions to the issue. 
Monseigner John Egan, director of the Center for Pastoral and Social Ministry at Notre Dame, termed the document "unfortu­nate." "It is unfortunate because this type of document need not have been written . at this time. Theologically it gives inadequate reasons for rejecting women in the ministerial priestb®A and ignores 
·the deliberate findings of the biblical commission set up to explore the question.'' 
Fr. Oliver Williams, director of the Professional Program of the Theology department commented that the arguments by the pope "does not present convincing 
. reasons to preclude changes in future." He cited the arguments entitled "The Church's Constant Tradition" as a "poor reason for not doing it." 
"It fails to take into account the renewed understanding with the quality of women in society," he continued. "We have to go back and read the scriptures and tradi­tions of the church with that new understanding." 
.Pr. James 'f. Burtchaell, provost, remarked on the role of women in society in a sermon delivered in September 1975 at the inaugural mass of the University. " ...the opportunity for public life and service which society had hitherto denied to all but a few Women is now being thrown open to all women who wish to take advantage of it. This is a just opportunity long denied to females. To the extent that any of us has shared person­ally or institutionally, wittingly or unwittingly in the denial of equal opportunities to women, we should be stirred in these better days more vigorously to open up new oppor­tunities for them in the present." 
"Married and single women are no longer barred from most enter­prises, and society will be much better for it ... one deplorable exception to this general enfranch­isement is the untimely and obstin­ate refusal ot most Christian churches to ordain qualified women to their leadership and fullest ministry. But here too inappro-


STOP 
THINKING ABOUT IT I I • • 
ASK 


Senior Class Formal ND/SMC Friday, April 15, 1977 Bids on sale in LaFortune Ballroom 
priate sexual discrimination must 
give way." 
Williams also pointed out that he ordination of women is absolutely necessary because of the pastoral needs of the churfh. Egan also expressed a similar point of view stating that the document "ap­pears to ignore the grave pastoral need for the sacramental ministra­tions of the priesthood becoming more and more evident in practi­cally every quarter of the world because of the shortage of priests." 
Sr. John Miriam Jones, assistant provost, cited a "lack of logic" in some of the arguments presented in the documents. She believes there are many reasons for people to react against the document's statements. "I hope one effect of it will be that many people will study in depth the topic from a theolog­ical and scriptural point of view." 
Jones commented that the doc­ument states, "where the official position of the church is now. With time, circumstances could change, as they have in the past, leading to a new understanding of ordination which may be needed in future years," she concluded. 
Kathy Hughes, a graduate assis­tant in theology, working at the Murphy Center at ND views the document positively. Hughes, one of the members of the "Women in Theology" group believes that the dialogue is now "two-sided." 
"The document is saying what the position has been and is now in the church. The very publication of the document makes response and dialogue possible." She noted that people are now talking about the topic seriously and cited the ent­ranee of 23 theologians from the Jesuit School of Theology at Her­keley into the discussion as an example. "The document causes people to 
· examine very carefully, biblical isymbols and 'impediments' which we have inherited, and to see if these impediments apply today," she said. Hughes stated that the document does not support its own conclu­sion. "It contradicts the findings of the Biblical commission, which used many of the same texts. The declaration doesn't indicate that there are a variety of positions on those texts." 
Fr. John Gallen, director of the Murphy Center for Liturgical Re­search, also viewed the publication of the document in a positive manner. 
''The statement is a moment in the dialogue, which sums up the position of the church," commen­ted Gallen. "It is an important statement which needs to be stu­died carefully but it is a part of a dialogue which needs to continue." 
Gallen remarked that the docu­ment does not argue strictly from evidence presented. In this he agreed with Fr. David Burr~ll, chairman of theology department. In an article published in the National Catholic Reporter Burrell states, " ... we should remind our­selves that the negative position taken in the declaration regarding ordaining women to the presyterate (priesthood) does not depend di­rectly on the arguments it elabor­ates. These arguments are intro­duced expressly as arguments from ''fittingne~. '' 
"The evidence used to support the statement is not very persua­sive in my judgement," Gallen remarked. He commented that his view agreed with that of the theologians from Berkeley, and called for a study from tradition which has yet to be performed. 
Maureen Howard, a graduate student in Liturgical studies, viewed the document as a neces­sary step because it states the 
·Vatican's position and brings the issue into the open. "The question is," she added, "Is this traditional position truly representative of the faith of the church today. If it does not, then now the believing community can go ahead and articulate what constitutes ther belief of priesthood." 
Sr. Jane Russell, who is pursuing doctoral studies in theology at the university, expressed a feeling of disappointment that the document was issued. "I feel that ultimately the priesthood will be open to women. The declaration is strewing just one more Papal document in the way that will have to be overcome." 
The historical argument is, Rus­sell believes, the strongest. "It's the only one I think we can. seriously consider but it can be.. overcome." She commented on a need to reinterpret the idea of what priestly and epsicopal ministry constitute.s and determine if changes are necessary. "There are so many roles in that one office that there are some that women are fulfilling now. Priesthood is the ''According to the New Testament leadership of the ministry, women 
every Christian represents Christ, if 
can, be leaders, therefore official mi 
maleness becomes a criterion then ministry ought to be opened up to women cannot really be baptized as 
women. 
Christians," revealed Fiorenza. 
Another viewpoint was presen­
She also described the document 
ted by Elizabeth Fiorenza, a Notre 
as a political statement. "Rome did 
Dame professor of theology. She 
not want to study the pros and cons 
expressed concern over the sexist 
ofthe situation. The conclusion was 
tones of the declaration which she 
already decided-that women could 
feels "could in the long run be 
not be ordained, the declaration's 
more harmful than the actual 
purpose was to present arguments
statement." 
against ordaination." 
Fiorenza explained that the trad­
Fr. Edward Kilmartin of the 
itional theology viewed God as 
theology department also expres­
becoming man in the generic sense 
sed his views in a letter published 
so that theology always viewed 
in America. Kilmartin expects the 
Jesus as a human being. The 
declaration to generate a great deal 
document, however, states the 
of comment "from Catholic theolo­
decisive factor was Jesus was male. 
[continued on page 4] 

Your Source for the Unusual in Diamonds and Precious Gems PlatirJum and Gold Jewelry 
You'll find untold treasures of the finest quality brought to you by the eye of an expert.* And sold with the care of a professional.* 
Insurance appraisals and purchases of fine diamonds and estate jewelry provided. 
*Graduate Gemologist: Gemological Institute of America *Fellow Gemmologist: 
Gemmological Association of Great Britain *B.A.: Indiana University 
Lobby St. Joseph Bank Building South Bend, Indiana Telephone: 287-1427 
John M. Marshall's 


COiamottd 9mpo~t Company 
Your Source for the Unusual

..•...­
fatwauy's 
~stpast 

OPEN FRI. & SAT. TILL MIDNIGHT 
\.OCI($, 
LIQUOR -O.R\.0 
Sellh 1_. lwt. 217..11 

6 -Packs 121pk aratz 
$1 .19 12/pk Falstafl 


Old 12/pk Rhinelander 260 
~chicago 
~Rum 
$498Qt. 
Scotch 
$539at. 
Vodka 
$399 
Qt. 
Gin 
$399at. 
Carton 

12/pk Old Style. 309 
JIM BEAM 
459 
frfth 

Philadelphia Whiskey 
$489qt $95~gal 
Early Times 
11~~g) 

Cases of Hamm's 
CS8S 
~~ 
ss~~s

Cigarettes 
Miscellaneous 
$385

Cases of Bef~~r
2-4 pm
._ll!l!lm_.llai!BIIIII_.____.._____.~iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~T:i'-;;,~-;·~-· '~w' -~ 

r---------------------------------------------------·--------------------~---­
~*The Observer 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and· st. mary's 
The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters are the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and letters are encouraged to promote the free expression of varying opinions on campus. 
BoxQBusiness Manager Sue Quigley Notre DameAdvertising Manager Steve Bonomo Ind. 46556 Production Manager Karen Chiames 

-------------------------------~ 
·Thursday, March 31, 1977 

~ 
'~, Wf iHE US, ~Nr 
IfIN<EN IN 
serious I y, foIks!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
We're Talking Megabucks 
;iiiiiiiiiiii__.iiiiiiii....__.iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii__.iiiiiiiiiiii__. arrt b u chwaId 
~ 
::> 
m 
fa 
z 
0 
0 
0 
EDITORIAL BOARD 

Marti Hogan Editor-in-Chief Martha Fanning Managing Editor Bob Brink Asst. Managing Ed. Kathy Mills Executive Editor Maureen Flynn Editorial Editor Barb Breitenstein Exec. News Editor Tom Byrne Campus Editor Jean Powley St. Mary's Editor Katie Kerwin News Editor Paul Stevenson Sports Editor Pat Cole Special Projects Ed. David O'Keefe Features Editor 
Copy Editor Barb Langhenry 
Photo Editor Paul Clevenger 
W ASBINGTON -There was a time when being President of the United States was the highest office that any American could aspire to. But in recent years the Presidency is only a steppingstone to fame and fortune in show biz. A recent article in the New York Times revealed that the William Morris Agency has made deals for Presi­dent Ford, Mrs. Ford, Jack Ford, Susan Ford and Steve Ford. The former President and his wife have contracts for two books with Harper & Row and Reader's Digest worth a million dollars. Ford will also work for NBC for the next five years doing documentaries, for which he will get a millio11_d<>_llars. 
Even President Nixon, who was driven out of office in disgrace, stands to make two or three million dollars from his book and TV appearances. 
With this kind of money being thrown around no one has any idea what President Carter's worth will be. But several big-name agents are already working on Mr. Carter's future as soon as he leaves office. I spoke to one of them. 
He was very excited. "We'll get more money for the C;irters than for any family that has ever lived in the White House. We're talking mega-bucks when we're talking about the Carters." 
"But isn't it kind of early to start packaging the Carter family?" I asked. "He's only been President for a couple of months." 
"We have to move fast. Carter's hot right now. In four years the bidding could go way down. I can 
get  more  money for  Amy's  me­ 
moirs  now  than  for  Ford's  and  
Nixon's combined."  

"Ihope she's keeping a diary," I said. "Guess what I've cooked up for Miss Lillian?" 
"I have no idea." 
''I've been talking to CBS about her being co-anchorwoman with Walter Cronkite on the evening news." 
"Does Walter know about this?" 
"It's not his decision," the agent said. "ABC sports wants Rosalynn Carter to do Monday Night Football with Howard Cosell." 
"I didn't know Rosalynn knew anything about football." 
"It doesn't matter. Rosalynn is interested in mental health and what better place to talk about it than with Howard during a pro football game." 
"Billy Carter's tied up with another agent now so I guess you can't use him," I said. 
"It doesn't matter. By the time the President is out of office Billy 
!P TH&PR£51-S&NIIlOR,ASI f16NT IXJSN'T SA/0BEfOrt£, 5 KNO«/ H!HIIT THe RffAUYA (}1/&5­
N&Iif)S OF Til& T/ON OF K&&P­COUNTRY ARe /N6/N 7lJI/CH.. 
·BY /iKJUJ, Hes \ 
NevER. GOIN67lJ 
/ KNOtU! 

· 
will be overexposed." "What have you lined up for President Carter?'' 
"I have a firm $3 million offer for his book. NBC is offering $2 million for a documentary on how he brought peace to the Middle lEast and another $2 million to host the Saturday Night show, as well as to fill in for Johnny Carson when Carson goes to Las Vegas." 
"You've really been working." '~You know Carter's sister," he said. "You mean Ruth Stapleton, the faith healer?" I replied. 
"No, dummy, Gloria Carter Spaan, the one who rides a . motorcycle.'' 
"Of course." 

"I got an offer from the Dallas State Fair. They want her to fly over 15 Greyhound buses on her bike in tandem with Eve! Knieval." 
"What about the President's sons, Chip, Jack and Jeff?" "Playboy wants all three of them." 
"Gosh, I didn't know there was that much money in being Presi­dent of the United States.'' 
''Are you kidding? Any agent who can't get a minimum of $10 miiiion for a former President and his family shouldn't be in show business;'' 

BtiT;!»We! CAN'T Bei.JEV/3 HE tAlON! IT. ITS LIKe A HE/ION THE IJRiiiiM, Y'xNJulr &lECTIONl \ 
/ 
-

o pinion!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
SMC, Meat Us. Halfway· 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii heIen gaIIagher 
, A change in our personal life­
' styles is often one of the most difficult acts to face up to, particu­larly at this time in our lives when we are torn between holding onto all that has gotten us this far and grasping for all of the other options available to us. 
Any action that we do initiate which requires a commitment is rationalized over and over again, and being a practical generation, facts and figures greatly influence our decision. 
Well...the fact is that the figures do exist which tell the tale of our world's food crisis. Half a biilion of 
·the world's four billion people mal­nourished, and the gap that exists between the wealthy nations and the underdeveloped countries is largely responsible for the prob­lem. 
At a time when it is desperately needed; concern for the well-being ofthese poorer countries is waning. The crisis is no longer a front-page item, and this has com­pounded the problem. It becomes more difficult to generate a res­ponse when there is less recogni­tion of the situation. 
It is possible, however, to make it an issue in our own lives. Here in this community, we are encourage to make a personal response through educating ourselves and responding to various campus act­ivities. 
This week an effort is being made at St. Mary's to broaden our ability to respond. A petition is being sponsored to initiate vege­tarian entree at dinner. There are several excellent reasons for sup­porting this petition: 1. We simply do not require much meat to be 
~P. 0. Box Q~ 
FeUow Seniors: 

I am not a chronic letter writer, I am certainly not a radical, in fact I very seldom complain. However, the. recent decision in regards to ticket allocation for our up-coming graduation has moved me to write. 
The decision is that each senior will receive only. five tickets to the exercises which he may distribute among his family and friends. The move. was forced, we are told, because of the large size of the senior class coupled with the visit from President Carter. The limited seating will ensure places for the graduates, faculty, and press, as well as assorted trustees, YIP's alumni and other privileged mem­bers of the Notre Dame family not enumerated in the official state­ment. 
It appears that the Administra­tion has gone beyond the realm of insensitivity to students, of which we are accustomed. This dedsion strikes at those who have carried the weight of Notre Dame (most of it financial) upon their backs: the· families of the graduates. Seniors 
I KNOll/. I STIL.L 

.welJ:IeO."Most of us could sharply reduce the amount of meat in our diet and still consume enough protein with all the other foods we eat. In fact, excessive meat con­sumption can be unhealthy because we store that which we do not use. 
2. Meatless meals serve as a statement of solidarity to the persons who lack not only meat in 
, their diets, but sufficient protein to lead healthy, productive lives. Their shortages can be blamed on our excessive "needs." The proposal to the Saint Mary's students reads: "We are inter­ested in implementing a vegetarian entree at dinner. This entree would be a substitute for the present third choice and we would participate one half of our evening meals." In order to approve the proposal, the dining hall must receive a petition of at least four hundred signatures, approximately one­fourth of the student body. Once 
1 implemented, two hundred stu­dents must take advantage of the entree. 
. We are being handed the oppor­. tunity to make a conscious de­cision, and not much is being asked of us in return. If the change from meat-meals to meatless meals is too difficult, there are alternatives such as meatless Mondays, Wed­nesdays, and Fridays. Another , alternative is simply eating less meat at our meals, or not making meat the center of all our meals. Whatever our decision, the only hope for any resolution of · any problem is if we put something of ourselves into positive action. Let's 
· begin with an act that is funda­mental to our existence, and make this petition the first step. 
·are expected to tell certain -mem­bers of their families that they cannot attend graduation ceremon­ies because the president is com­
.\ng; there is no room. 

Why should this day be stolen from these families so that the Administration might snare a piece of the limelight focused on Presi­dent Carter? I doubt that either the President or the Senior Class will be the ones who gain most appreci­ably by this visit. · 
What can we do? Consider the 
alternatives: 
1) We can write Father Hesburgh, or offer a petition. 

This is surely the most proper way to present our view, but undoubtedly the most ineffective. Student outcry is somehow silenced as it filters its way to the fourteenth floor. 
2)Strike at the Administration where it is most vulnerable, in the media. Draft a letter to the Presi­dent, which (in the form of petition) would be signed by the Senior Class. This is not as far-fetched as it might sound. 
Such a letter would express our gratitude for his offer, but at the same time explain the situation that prohibits many of oyr _loved ones sharing in the culmination of our college careers. We woulcl ask that he possibly re-schedule his visit, and if not possible, simply cancel. 
We would inform the adminis­tration and the area media of this, which might in itself prompt some action. 

As we end our four years here at Notre Dame, we cannot allow this one more straw to be placed on our backs. Let us, if nothing else, establish that the Silent Majority need not be forever silent. 
Steve Garagfola Class of 1977 

• •s •• ... "• ·~' 





Thursday, March 31 
CJF Pre.vie4.0 

The Jazz Judges I t t 
By Scott Appleby 

The Notre Dame 1977 Collegiate Jazz bined with jazz. on a succl!ssful career journey. Randy has t Festival commences this Friday night at Bob then struck out on his own, working played for Blood, Sweat and Tears, Horace Stepan Center and promises to be one of stints with famous jazz personalities such Silver, and the Average White Band while f the most exciting and entertaining events as Maynard Ferguson and the legendary forming his own band, The Brecker of the semester. Under the financial stylist Sarah Vaughan, before providing Brothers. t auspices of the Student Union Cultural the scores for two theatrical productions Dave Sanborn, virtuoso on alto sax, once 
t

Arts Commission, and the meticulous which won him national recognition. This played under Fr. Wiskirchen, advisor for direction of senior Mike Dillon, this year's work in composition led him to the the ND festival in the Northwestern Lab 
t

festival boasts a most impressive line-up of· Broadway show, ''The Selling of the Band. From there, Dave branched out to 
musicians and judges, all of which are· President." session work and later toured with such highly regarded for their considerable "It was ahead of its time," Bob celebrities as Burt Bacharach, Stevie achievements as session men and record­comments. "When the show opened, Wonder, and the Paul Butterfield Blues f Records By Gregg Bangs ing artists in the New York area.. Nixon was riding thecrest ofhis popularity. Band. ' 
Reigning supreme as the only American Had the show been produced a year later, The Notre Dame Jazz Festival was first jazz competition which maintains a nation­it might have become a hit." held in 1958, primarily due to the 
Hejira 

al complexion, the Notre Dame festival is Bob went on to. arranging, and directed inspiration and backing of Charles Suber, t -Many Joni Mitchell admirers werethe oldest and largest, and most prestigous· the studio efforts of such notables as editor of Chicago's Downbeat magazine. '
disappointed with the different style of her
collegiate tradition of its kind in the United Dionne Warwick, Roberta Flack, and Mr. Suber returns this year to campus, tlast album, The Hissing of Summer Lawns.
States. This year's roster of participating Aretha Franklin, before meeting producer after a ten-year absence, in order to act as t That recording found Mitchell breakingbands was whittled down from the sixty Creed Taylor, who signed him to record master of ceremonies for the festival. 
away for the folk-style that she had become 
groups initially invited, to the fifteen who . under the CTI label. The performer­In the initial years of the festival's tbest known for. Instead, she decided tosurvived a taped audition conducted by arranger-stylist has since appeared on a development, competition was emphasized use jazz to accompany her always enthral­area jazz experts. As chairman Dillon puts variety of albums by other artists (most much more than it is today: the bands t ling lyrics. Critics charged the jazzit, "We feel that we have some of the most notably on Paul Simon's Grammy-winning customarily opposed one another in "play­f presentation ruined the free-flowing nature ftalented young musicians in the country Still Crazy After All These Years) and has off' rounds, the winner of which merited a 1of the lyrics and many hoped she would go represented at this year's festival, not to recorded four solo albums. placement in the Newport Jazz Festival. 
t' back to the fold approach. f
board judges of Will lee, the son of a music educator, rigorous has
mention a of worthy · Such rivalry since been Critics might be disappointed that her ,
all-star status." attended the University of Miami and downplayed in favor of a more co-opera­latest album, Hejira, did not return to jazz, All-starts, indeed. Through the dogged played bass at local clubs as a side interest. tive, learning atmosphere. Top money but they should be pleased to know that perseverance of Dillon and his associate He became a member of the premiere jazz prizes have given way to plaques and she now sounds as natural within her newJames Smalley , the festival has acquired ensemble "Dreams" which included Billy plaudits; indeed, the festival is now framework as he did in her fold-orientedfive top-name performers who will con­Cobham, Chuck Rainey, and Randy Breck­an exciting forum for collegiate jazz days.
structively criticize each band in edifying er. Once the group disbanded, Will worked exposure, with an eye towards promoting What Mitchell has done is cut down onfashion and then proceed to demonstrate as.a session man, playing on countless gold the growing industry which has sprung the number of instruments.that accom­the various talents which constitute true records and eventually turning his talents from the popularity of creative jazz. 
•pany her. Instead of competing with her,
excellence and virtuosity. In fact, this toward the field of TV-radio commercials. The money hasbeenchanneled into more .the accompaniment practically serves as a"Judges Jam" (Friday night, after regular Bob Moses, a respected NYC percussion­lucrative avenues; for example, one-third rhythm section for her. On most cuts,performances) promises to be the highlight ist, has involved himself in virtually every of Dillon's annual budget (approved and Mitchell accompanies herself on guitar andof the weekend; although each of the facet of musical expression. As composer, appropriated by Student Government) goes is joined by a bass, lead guitar and either ajudges is an individual talent in his own Bob produced and wrote the score for the toward hiring the type of top-notch judges percussionist or drummer. On all the cuts,right, the fact that the five know one prize-winning documentaries Megalopolis which are appearing this weekend. This Mitchell's guitar playing has a strangeanother and -have played together before and Crayons; as performer and recorder, year's festival has also been widely metallic edge that compliments herwill certainly heighten the intensity of the he has worked with Keith Jarrett, Gary publicized in an effort to increase the singing. The bass and drum playing are set. Burton, Karl Berger, Larry Coryell, and chronically-poor student attendance. Dillon mainly supportive, but compliment herBob James, a young and creative Mike Gibbs, to name a few. Perhaps his points out: "If this event were held at a nonetheless. Drummer John Guerin andkeyboard player, made his first public most impressive accomplishment has been state university, 20,000 tickets could easily Bassist Max Bennett of the L.A. Expressappearance at the 1962 ND Jazz Festival. his teaching for Karl Berger's Creative be sold. For some reason, the Notre play with restraint, and one notices theirAt that time, representing the University of Music Studio in Woodstock, during which Dame-St. Mary's community has been performance for just that reasgn---particu­Michigan, Bob led his trio to top honors, he held numerous drum clinics and disappointing up to this point in their larly on "Song for Sharon," where they
copping for himself the awards for best ·composing workshops. support of the festival." 
keep an eight-and-one-half minute songcomposer, soloist, and keyboard man. One Randy Brecker, another veteran of the In spite of these problems, Mike enjoys moving along with a steady beat with
of the judges that year was Quincy Jones, Collegiate Jazz Festival won first place in one special blessing: the sound system, f intermittent filler work. 
who became enthusiastic about the groups 1964 representing Indiana University as a which would cost upwards of $10,000 . Mitchell sounds like she's been singing· potential and signed them to record their trumpet soloist; as in the case of Bob regularly, is provided free of charge by a f with this kind of background music all of own brand of avant-garde classical com-James, Notre Dame was just the first stop Michigan jazz freak. This devoted engineer her life. Her delivery, especially the sensedonates his sound system to Stepan Center of her timing in her phrasing, has alwaysas proof of his expertise; if it is effective in t A been one of the most interesting andthe terrible acoustic setting of Stepan, he 1 attractive features of her singing, and reasons, it will sell anywhere. Thus, he she's never been better. Whether it's
%Observer 
even holds a class on electronics and uses t holding onto a certain note, breathlesslyhis experience at Notre Dame as proof t running off a string of emotions, humour­
positive of his genius. 
lessly sounding like an old man, or coylyHowever, his is not the only genius reprimanding a lover, she does it naturally which will be on display this weekend at and effortlessly. This is one reason whyStepan Center--there will also be over one f Mitchell stands out from other contem­hundred top-notch musicians. composers porary singers.
and performers, including special guest 
'

f Another reason is her writing. In thisband Eastern School of Music. Indeed,
Features 
album, Mitchell almost exclusively usesMike might well be justified in his claim: ' loneliness, self-destiny and holding onto or"This will be the greatest weekend ever for losing a lover as the subject of her songs.
Notre Dame Jazz." 

Yet she never lapses into cliches and each
t 

venture at any one of the subjects isCinema in South Bend t different and unique. In "Amelia," she t juxtaposes a sketch of Amerlia Earhart, the famed woman aviator who died trying to t 
cross the Pacifk. whith her own problems f of coming to grips with love. ·
Suspended Animation 
A "Furry Sings The Blues" is a detailed ' I· and sensitive look at the decay of a By David O'Keefe f neighborhood and its inhabitants. f Mitchell's character sketches of Old Furry brings to the film. The animators seem to destroy the machine. Their journey. from and Beale Street are as accurate as any f
t

have lavished most of their creative efforts Montagar to Blackwolfs stronghold· in journalists. Neil Young's harmonica adds sf on the villianous mutants who right for Scrotch. comprises most of the film .. t a suitable melancholy touch. Blackwolf, (the evil technocrat) who wages The voices. like the animations, are a Although "Blue Motel Ropom" starts f war on his twin brother, Avatar, (the ruler curious amalgam drawn from various t off like another life-on-the-road-with-a­of the Free States and the wizard of love). sources. to the ultimate harm of the movie. A rock-star song. it quickly becomes a sketch ' The most intense images in the film are the The most heinous and senseless of all is the ' of a persons paranoid fear of losing a lover scenes of Blackwolf's warriors preparing insistence on making Avatar sound like a t who is back at home. Delivered in a bluesy. 
WIZARDS for battle, a literal parade of grotesque doting rabbi. an absolute non sequitur for style, Mitchell delivers several comic lines, nuclear victims. the alleged hero. In fact, the filmmakers
Directed and Written by Ralph Bakshi ' such as: . t 
The central characters are disap­have invested Wizards with so much 1know that you've got all those pt:etty girls This film has generated more than its pointing. Avatar looks like a cross between needless comedy and cuteness that the coming on f
t

share of brouhaha in the past pre-release Dopey and -Yosemite Sam, a curious elf strength of the visuals are the only element Hanging on l_mur boom-boom-pachyderm months. Ralph Bakshi, the animator who with an amazing red beard who takes that saves the film form impotence. The t Well you tell thn<;c girls that you've got f created Fritz the Cat, Heavy Traffic and thoughtful puffs from a cigar held between thing is nicely integrated by the subtle German Mea~lcs Coonskin, hyped his newest release as his,. toes. Elinore. a young nymphet interventions of a female narator, only to f Honey. tell ·em you've got germs ~ "like nothing ever before undertaken in apprenticing to become a wizard under· have the smooth,' placating tones of her A Or a line that is funny. but seems to hit the f the field of animation.'' The time was right Avatar, looks like a refugee from Mark incredibly expressive voice shattered all 
I nail on the head: 
for something like Wizards, an idea with Eden via Weight Watchers. Black wolf is a too often by simplistic nonsense. 
f You and me we're like America and Russia f
vast potential in an art form still exploring reasonably well-drawn character, a gaunt It is a shame that Ralph Bakshi didn't We're ah~-a~·s keeping scoreits visual parameters. Most of the old man with skeletal features, but trying take his ideas to a more courageous limit. 
I We're alwa~·s balancing the power f
speculative excitement centered around· to pass him off as Avatar's twin is rike At times. he seems utterly capable of And that can get to be a cold. cold war
the visual images that Bakshi an_d a trying to find a freckle on a frog.. creating a new direction in cinema in veritable army of animators would create The story is a delicate fable about the Wizards. only. to feel a compulsion to fall f Lyrically and musically. Hejira is a step ·f 
t up form Hissing of Summer Lawns. There f
to inhabit the Earth after millions of years powers of love versus the powers of back on vapid conventions. It mav be that is 110 Bccd wmparing this album to her
of post-holocaust regeneration, which is technology. Blackwolf's forces are stirred Bakshi wanted to appeal to U1t: widest the setting of the film. · into murderous frenzy by watching old variety nf moviegoers possible. \\ h'd1 A earlier material for the two are completely ' 
f difkrcnl. l.i~·· !'.•Ill <;imon. she has grown 
Considering, then, the nobility of Bak­Nazi footage from World War II, unearthed accounts for ·most of the problems in shi's efforts, Wizards can only be casti­by the wizard while digging through the Wizards. What he failed tli realill·. t a\' ;1.v !rom her folk roots to successfully ' 
1hal om·

gated as a magniticent failure. Some of the nucf<oar ruins in search of technological unhappily. was that any film that seeks to can only hope she keeps going 
Avatar's good guys, aided b)Lt f furtht-r. lll'jira i~ an excellent <;fl'p along I
visuals, ·f5ut not quite enough, satisfy the armaments. break new ground isn't so much appc;1]_inl!. tit<· \\'a\·.
enormous expc('tations thafone inyariably, fairies and sprites. and ·elves, seek to as ctTcl'ting·. 
~~~~~~~---~..-. 
' 



CBS's Schneider lectures 
(continued from page 1] But we're also one of the primary sources of news and information for the American people, with all the First Amendment responsibili­ties that implies," he explained. 
Several of the questions from the audience during the question-and­answer period which followed Schneider's address dealt with violence on television. Schneider said there are learned studies on both sides of the question of the effects of violence on television veiwers. He pointed out that he thinks violence was a kind of fad that is dying out now. "There has been less violence on the networks each year since 1972," he noted. 
During the symposium, Schnei­der also discussed the problem of the terrorist and televisi-on. He said CBS is trying to come up with broadly applicable guidelines for these situations. "We have deci­ded that we won't put a terrorist on live under any circumstances," he stated. He also said it is a responsibility but "we don't want to act irresponsibly." 
Responding to a question on television as a social force, Schnei­der stated, '_'TV has some impact on what happens in the nation but this has been over-emphasized." He added, "We hope we've been responsible and we hope an enor­nously angry public will rise up if 
aren't.'' 

Schneider's address was part of the executive Le1:ture Series of the Gra~uate School of the College of 
Rings fo~nd around Uranus; called major discovery 
by Tony ledwell Associated Press Writer 

MOUNTAIN'VIEW, Calif. (AP) 
Five thin rings have been 
detected surrounding the mysteri­
ous planet Uranus, and scientists 
said yesterday they constitute the 
first major structural discovery in 
the solar system in SO years. 
Until the sighting from an 

airborne space laboratory earlier 
this month and followup confirma­
tion by earthbound astronomers, 
Saturn was believed to be the only 
one of the solar system's nine 
known planets to have such rings. 

Details of the finding -were 
discussed by reasearcher James 
Elliott in an interview. 

''The possibility of the rings has 
bee'n vaguely speculated before, 
but the discovery caught everyone 
by surprise," said Elliott, an 
astronomer at Cornell University. 

Elliott said he and his coworkers 
at the Ames Research Center here 
were studying the stars around 
~UAA sponsors pap~r airp_lanes 

The student branch of the 
American Institute for Astronauts 
and Aeronatics, will sponsor a 
paper airplane contest on Sunday, 
Apdl17, at 1 p.m. 

the contest, to be held in Stepan 
Center will offer prizes for planes 
in three categories: distance, en­
durance, and areobatics. Awards 
include first place, $10; second 
place, $5; and third place, a dinner 
for one at MacDonald's. 

All entries must be constructed 
from any paper substance includ­
ing cardboard, newspaper or con­

struction paper. size and weight 
are unlimited, but no wood mater­
ials are allowed. 

A complete list of rules is vailable in the Aero Space Building or the third floor of the Engineering Building. For more details call John Tartaglione (1221). 
~~lcoholism film 
I'll Quit Tomorrow, a film dealing with the treatment of alcoholism and the family's potential to help initiate treatment, will be shown Wednesday and Thrusday. April IJ-14, at 7p.m. in the audio-visual room in the Center for Continuing 
_Education basement. 

2-YEAR NRoTc §I]GJl!Jlb(D(]§GJUIJ 
l!JIJIJl!J(]UI:DWUU~ ~ 
I 
I 
I Irnmediate Benefits I For Those Who
' 
' ~­Qualify 
r 
•FULL 
TUITION FOR JUNIOR & SENIOR YEAR 

•ALL 
BOOKS 


•ALL 
EDUCATION, LAB FEES 

•$1 
00 MONTHLY SUBSIS"f ANCE 


A lot of companies will offer you an important sounding 
title. But how many offer you a rf'ally important job? In the Navy, you get one es soon as you earn your com­
mission. A job with responsibility. A job that requires skill and leadership. A job that's more than just a job, because it's also an adventure. 
IF Tl-tATS THE KIND OF JCIB YOU'RE LOOKING FOR, CALL 
Lt. Commander Nelson 283.6442 
Uranus, the seventh planet from the sun, from the laboratory air­craft 41,000 feet above the Indian Ocean when the abrupt sighting was made. 
The rings had not been discov­ered before, he explained. because the light rtflected from the planet is usually so bright it obscures lesser reflections from the rings. But on March to, the planet's position on the nightside of earth provided the right light conditions for detecting the rings. 
Elliott said the rings are similar to the rings around Saturn, but much thinner. Much more re­search remains to be done, he added. 
·~we don't know why they are so thin," he said. "They are only a few miles thin, and the thickest one is 30 to 60 miles. Saturn's rings are thousands of miles thick. 
"We can't really tell what the rings are made of," he said. "One good guess would be some type of ice. One theory about 
Saturn's rings is that they are made out of snowballs." 
One possibility, he said, is that the rings are composed of material present during the formation of solar system that never coalesced into moons or are remnants of a moon. 
He also said the discovery of the rings could hve a major impact on current knowledge of Uranus. 
Presently, scientists believe Ura­nus is four times larger than Earth and has a surface temperature of 300 degrees below zero, Fahren­heit. It is 1.7 billion miles from the sun. 
After the National Aeronautics and Space Agency teams first reported the rings, observatories around the world were asked to confirm the sighting. Existence of the rings since has been confirmed from observatories in India and Australia. 
The last major scientific discov­ery in the solar system was the planet Pluto in 1930. 
f-s;.c;;.;.;.-~7FaiAY--1 
f t 
1 t 
t 
t 
t
I 
! f f 

9:oo-tt:OO  f  
§tt?l'f? &Wt?f§ ..ll<t? lt?WI§ §. ll:i11tl1" (()1111.,.•.,  t1  
contempoRaRy ROck.....  1  
tt:oo-12:30  t  
Marian Hoke  and  Pam Butterworth  I  
~olk <;UitaR....  tt  

also complimentaRy potaroe ch1ps &. blp .... t SpeciaJ: Hoagie bar-make your own!!!! t 
l~_J 
LeadingCandidate? 
It takes a lot to become a leader in the Marines. You need hard training. Rigid discipline. Emphasized responsibility. A determination to win. Confidence in th~se you lea~. ~nd_ a sense of integrity inspired by the umform and ms1gma of a Marine Officer. 
If you want to make it-if you think you have what it takes to be one of our leading candidates-' Put your leadership to our test. 
Learn to handle men, money, and material this summer at Quantico, Virginia. Management work­
. study program-transportation, room and board, books, and uniforms provided free plus $115 per week, see the selection team in La Fortune today through Friday. 

9 

Spanish officials to release pilots' tapes 
• by Fenton Whehler Associated Press Writer 

SANTA CRUZ DE TENERIFE* <;anary Islands AP • Spanish offi­cials agreed yesterday to release tapes of the last exchanges among two Boeing 747 pilots aRd the airport tower here, giving investi­gators a record of events leading up to aviation's worst disaster. 
Authorities said the tapes would be flown to Washington at the request of Dutch and American 
SMC grads work in mission 
-by Brigid Rafferty Staff Reporter 

Foregoing the usual post-grad­uation alternatives of jobs, grad school, or marriage, St. Mary's 1976 graduates Therese Bush and J oanie Durlacher embarked on a unique alternative--they became Holy Cross Lay Missionaries in Brazil. 
Working with the Human Pro­motion Center at Telemaco Borba, Parana, Brazil since Fall 1976, Therese will remain until Nov­ember 1977, while Durlacher will stay until October 1978. Both girls spent the summer· in South Bend studying Portugese before heading 
'for Brazil. 
"With the improvement in our ability to communicate came pro­gress as well as a growing aware­
'ness of the magnitude of the needs and problems waiting for atten­tion," they said. "The Humari Promotion Center (our mission work) under the direction of Sr. Rose Martin, attempts to attend the needs of the poor in an area populated by approximately 47,000 people." 
"This includes three favella or slum areas, each located in a · different area of the city's per­iphery," they continued. "It is difficult to describe the multitude 
-oC services which we provide without drawing on specifics." 
The Holy Cross missions office encourages students to become lay volunteers in its programs. Ac­cording to Sister Mary Ann Deb­bing, Mission Secretary, persons of college age or above, with a degree or work experience, are desired, but the main requirements are, "A good outlook on life, a sense of humor, and resourcefulness." 
Those interested in the lay missionary program should contact the Holy Cross Mission Office, Bertrand Hall, St. Mary's (284­'4659). 
Co'ffeehouse offers Hoagie special 
by Maria Frigyesi 

St. Mary's Social Commission is once again sponsoring the popular "Coffee House" in the Snack Bar. Begun at the start of the second semester, it will continue until April 29, every alternate Friday, according to Social Commissioner head Mary Kalssen. 
This Friday the "Coffee House" will feature the trio of Steve Bowers. Kathy Connelly, and Mike Lewis, popular Nazz entertainers. They will perform from 9 p.m. -11 p.m. 
Marian Hoke and Pam Butterworth will entertain the snack bar patrons from 11 -12:30 the same evening. 
SAGA food services will continues to offer variou~ specials at reduced prices. This week, the special will be on Hoagie~. Free chip and dip will also be !'>erved. as before. 
officials for an analysis in the presence of KLM and Pan Ameri­can crew members who would identify the voices. 
Investigators said the last nine minutes of conversation recorded in the cockpits of the Pan Am and KLM Royal Dutch Airways Boeing 747s held the key to why the dutch pilot began his fatal take-off run directly into the American jet. Investigators said the KLM jet had not been given clearance to take off. 
Both flight recorders were reco­vered and impounded by the Spanish, who are in charge of the investigation. 
American and Dutch investiga­tors also requested interviews with two Spanish air controllers on duty in the tower Sunday when the collision occurred. 
The death toll in the crash rose to 577 as two of the 71 persons who survived the crash and fire Sunday died overnight. All 71 escaped from the Pan Am jet, and the dead include 323 Americans. 
One woman died on a U.S. Air Force transport taking 54 survivors to the United States, some bound for the special Army burn unit at 
Ft. Sam Houston,  Tex.  Another  
survivor  died  at  Las  Palmas  
hospital.  

At Tenerife, Dutch and Ameri­can officials prepared to repatriate the hundreds of charred remains collected at a hanger. Officials said positive identification for many would have to await their arrival home. 
An interdenominational funeral service for the victims was sched­uled Wednesday night in a Roman Catholic cathedral near the airport. 
The chief U.S. investigator, 
Archivist Blantz resigns to teach 
Rev. Thomas E. Blantz, University archivist ana associate professor of history, has announced his intention to resign the former position and return to full-time teaching. 
Fr. Blantzjoined the Notre Dame history faculty in 1966 and two years later received his Ph.D. in history from Columbia University. He was appointed University archivist in 1969 and took a leave from both that position and his department to serve as vice pres­ident of student affairs from 1970 to 1972. He is a fellow of the University. 
The University's provost, Rev. James T. Burtchaell, C.S.C., has appointed a search committee to recommend a candidate or can­didates to succeed Fr. Blanz. Dr. David C. . Leege, director of the Center for the Study of Man in Contemporary Society, chairs the committee, whose other members are Rev. Thomas Elliott, archivist for the Holy Cross Priests' Indiana Province, and Dr. J. Philip Glea­son, _professor of history. 
WEEK DA YS-7 :00-9:15 SAT & SUN-2:00-4:30-7:00-9:15 
Winner of 4 Major Academy Awards 

William R. Haley, said the cockpit 
recorders should show all commun­
ications both within each plane and 
among the pilots and the tower in 
the minutes preceding the crash. 
The two big questions now are 
why the KLM plane began its take 
off run without official clearance 
and whether the Pan Am jet was 
supposed to be on the main 
runway. · KLM officials said it was "com­pletely illogical and unthinkable" that Capt. Z.A. Veldhuizen van Zanten, 51, the pride of the KLM pilot staff, would start down the runway without clearance. 
The chief Dutch investigator on 
Tenerife, however, said tapes 
indicated this is e-xactly what 
happened, and Spanish officials 
said the last instructions from the 
tower to the dutch plane were : 
"Okay, stand by. I will call you for 
take off." 
A Spanish official said the tower 
called vainly to both planes after 
that, but got no response from 
either. 
The Dutch investigator, Franz 
van Rejsen, also said the American 
plane, taxiing along the main 
runway to take up position for take 
off, had been told to pull off onto a 
SMC receives 'steel' grant 
by Denisa Lynk 

St. Mary's has been granted 
$3000 from the Republic Steel 
Corporation Educational and Chari­
table Trust of Cleveland, Ohio. On 
November 12, 1976 St. Mary's sent 
the Corporation a proposal re­
questing a grant. The money will 
be used in the construction of the 
new sports and recreational 
facility. 
The facility was designed by C.F. 
Murphy and Associates of Chicago, 
and is being built by the Hickey 
Company of South Bend. It is to be 
completed by fall of 1977. 
The Tri-Ievel building will in­
clude basketball, volleyball, and 
tennis courts. The main arena will 
have bleachers to seat 2000. The 
ground level will include faculty 
offices and team dressing rooms 
and showers. A partial third level 
will contain two racquetball courts.. 
The Republic Steel Corporation 
Educational a-nd Charitable Trust 
gives support to community fund 
and united appeal organizatiOn 
community development and im­. provement groups, private colleges and universities, hospitals and 
health organizations. 
Last chance: pick up bikes on Friday 
Students w11o stored thl'ir 
parallel taxiway on exit C-3, but continued on to the next exit, C-4. Americans said the Pan Am pilot was following instructions and that C-3 was at an angle that made it impossible for a 747 to turn into it. 
The Pan Am jet was just short of C-4 when the Dutch jet began to accelerate. Van Rejzsen said the American pilot tried to get his jet off the runway, but the KLM jet 
thundered  into it  at  a  45-degree  
angle.  
Both  jets  burst  into  flames.  

Investigators from both airlines indicated the cockpit tapes may also have some conversations that do not show up on the control tower tape. 
For example, Pan Am Capt. Victor Grubbs -who survived the crash -told interviewers that as the KLM jet began to take off he yelled into his mike: "Tell them not to take off; we're still on the runway!" 
But some sources said Grubbs' microphone may have been switched to the internal system. Normally it is the copilot who communicates with the tower prior to take off. 
The Spanish news agency Euro­pa Press quoted Grubbs saying as he was being airlifted out of Tenerife on Tuesday: "I have a tranquil conscience about my per­formance in the accident. I am 
A~P\ ll 
fOOLS 

PR~TY 
SMC Clu.b 
Hou.se 

10 K~qs of Mit 
bicycles in thl' s1ad!un, during the·.,..--....~~~~~~~ winter must Jlll'k thl':~: ''P Fridav between 2 p.ll!. and -1 p.n1 This is ;he la'>t pick up time a\ ailablc. 
Trust no one. No one. 

J1111-:! ... H~IRI 
AVCO EMBASSY Release From*ENTERTAINMENT 
weekdays  7  9  
weekend~  
1 :30  3 :30  5 :00  7 :Oil  9 ,Oll  

convinced that I maneuvered the plane skillfully and carried out the instructions the control tower gave me.'' 
KLM officials in Amsterdam want to hear the tapes to see if Capt. Velhuizen van Zanten may have not heard or misinterpreted commands from the tower. A Dutch spokesman said "we pre­sume there was a misunder­standing in the KLM cockpit re­garding the position of the Pan Am plane on the runway." 
Haley said both cockpit voice recorders were recovered in "rea­sonably good shape" but that KLM's digital flight recorder -or black box-still had not been found. He said the Pan Am flight recorder had been recovered and also was in the hands of Spanish authorities. 
the U.S. team also sought infor­mation on general weather condi­tions. The plane hit a patchy fog with visibility of about 300 yards, a distance Spanish authorities said was safe enough for take-offs. 
Pan Am, meanwhile, said five or six of the 15 survivors who did not make the U.S. Air Force flight to the United States would fly to Las Pal mas and then to Madrid. One stewardess was still hospitalized on Tenerife, another left on the island on her own, and the others had chosen to remain in Santa Cruz for the moment. 
need resumes in a hurry? 

-~ 

insly·prints 
the wiz of the printi.Jlt biz! 

rag bond 25-81/2 X 11 $2.55 
203 N. Mair-' So Bend ~9-697 
2:00 4:30-7:00-9:30 

2 
BLACK 
SUNDAY 
ll(l .1011 o·Jo 90tt 


Admission i~ free. 
.. -----t,• -··----. '"· •• •-• a. •-• • "' ~ ,. • • ................. ,._, ' . t.a.................. C.."'....<t .. -"-fL.~.....~.... 
--··----------------------..-··------­
~-------; 


r 
10 the observer Thursday, March 31, 1977 
Stepan Center:used to its fullest? 
by John O'Donnell 

At the inauguration of Stepan Center, its purpose was to provide "a new facility for convocations, concerts, and other special events at the University of Notre Dame." Many around campus believe that the building has been neglected and has failed to fulfill its service to the students. 
According to Brother John Ben­esh, Director of Student Activities, a lot of activities do go' on, but that there are open days as well. Benesh explains, "Stepan Center is reserved for student activities. Once student activities are taken care of, then other departments can use it. If people have ideas on what they would like to do, it's there to be used." 
One difficulty Benesh mentioned is the size of the building. "Since Stepan is so large, its main intent is for large activities. A small attendence, such as 100 people, would feel awkward.'' Benesh noted two events which were rather successful this semester: Kres­kin's performance and the Junior Parents' Weekend dinner February 25. 
Dominick Napalitano, the Direct­tor of Non-Varsity Athletics, ex­pressed great interest in Stepan Center. "We would love to have 
Stepan Center for use for interhall athletics," Napalitano claimed, "but there is a definite lack of continuity. There is no way that we could schedule interhall games around the events that occur there." Interhall athletics are currently confined to the ACC, where they rank fourth in priority 

"Another drawback is the poor acoustical system which is due to the cement floor, the steel ceilings, and the high space within the building.'' 
Ricci suggested that Stepan would be ideal for an armory party, but that such an event would lead to conflicts with Dean Roemer concerning the use of liquor. 
Ricci also discussed the trouble of arranging concerts for Stepan. "If a concert is relatively cheap-­below $1000--then it won't draw. If a concert calls for a much larger sum of money, then we can't afford it." 
Earlier this year, Hall and Oates were to make an appearance at Stepan for $6000--which amounted to $3 per ticket. Within the week, their price increased to $12,000, which was too expensive for Stu­dent Union. 
"Over a period of five years," 

No, that's not a futuristic building on Mars, that's Stepan Center l········t
(photo by Debbie Krilich) · 
behi~d commercial, varsity, and physical education departments. 
Napalitano also make reference to the tight schedule which is forced upon interhall athletics. "Ever since the Rockne Memorial has forbidden interhall basketball games, we've had to cut down on the number of teams in each hall, which is opposed to the whole concept of interhall athletics. If we could find a way of using Stepan Center we would be greatly de­lighted'." 
However, Napalitano also cited three drawbacks which at the present makes Stepan Center less attractive for athletics: concrete floors, the lack of dressing rooms, and the conflicting events sched­uled by Student Affairs. Regard-

DETROIT [AP] -Dissident Uni­ted Auto Workers at a Chrysler Corp. electrical plant in Indianapo­lis returned to their jobs yesterday ending a 12-day wildcat strike. 
A company spokesman here sais members of UAW Local 1226 halted picketing in the afternoon, although absenteeism was high on the second-shift. He said a normal workforce was expected Wednesday. 
The 3,100-member local, whicfi struck March 18. voted earlier in the day to return to work following a meeting with UAW international Vice President Douglas Fraser. 
Fraser, who heads the UAW's Chrysler section, flew to Indiana-back to their jobs. The interna­tiona! union had labelec the strike an unauthorized work stoppage. 
The walkout at the plant, which produces auto electrical compo­nents was triggered by a fight between a foreman and a union steward. 
On Monday, management fired Local 1226 President Larry Schick, three other officers, five commit­teemen and 14 shop stewards for leading the walkout. The company also suspended 44 pickets. 
In addition, a multi-million dollar damage suit filed by the automaker a week ago against the local is still pending in U.S. District Court. The suit seeks $238,000 a day in real 

Jazz Festival April I·2
• 
Ticket Prices

AT STEPAN CENTER 
Fri: 7:30 Sat: 12:30 
Friday ss.so 
Sat: 7:00 

Sat. (alterlttoon) $2.~50 
• 
Sat EVENING $4.11»0 
i Ss,.ooAll session pass 
.• N D SMC Students· S?'.OO 
~...................... 
less, ifN~palitanocould_be assured. SHAKESPEARE'S of s~ffic1~nt dates wh1c~ do not • ALIVE & W ELL & conflict w1th student af_fairs, t_hen LIVING IN • Stepan Center could be mcre~smg-AM ERICA ly used for student a~hlet1~s: ..........
1
Pr~sently, the only athletic actiVI~Y which occurs regularly at Stepan 1s 
women's _volleyball. . . . 
Aecordmg to Ke_n R1cc1, presl­~*+It's Not An April Fools' joke *** 
dent of Stude_n~ ~mon, t.he reason why more ac~Iv1t1es aren t pl~~n.ed for Stepan ts because acttvtttes STUDENT CHECKS CASHED 
there do not draw well. "T~e only event that has gone well m two years has been last WITH ND/SMC ID CARD 
year's homecoming dance, and that MAR-MAIN PHARMACY 
was only because the football team 426 N.MICHIGAN played Sout~rn California that weekend. It doesn't draw too well because size is a problem--it's too *****"Park at McDonald's" *+*~ big f?~ an intimate bar or dance floor. 

tive damages. 
The company spokesman said the dismissals, suspensions and court suits were not dropped yesterday. But plant management had agreed to meet with represen­tatives of the local today to try to 
resolve their differences. -,_~~IWIIIW~~A,_~~W~~~,._~~.,¥~~~'"-~~_,. 
Chrysler wildca1t strike! ends 
polis to urge the members to go damages and $1.5 million in puni­

.............................
, 
Collegiate i 
Meanwhile, a strike by 2.500 members of UAW Local 325 con­tinued for a lOth day at the Ford Motor Co. assembly plant in the St. Louils suburb of Hazelwood, Mo. 
Ford said the walkout begaa March 20 over unresolved grie­
vances  concerning  working  
conditions.  
The  plant normally builds  720  

full-size Mercurys a day. Ricci stated, "the concerts at 
Stepan have been bummers." An 
average year would include three 
concerts in Stepan resulting in an 
estimated total loss of nine to ten 
thousand dollars. 
"What Stepan is well suited 
for," Ricci stressed, "is the upco­
ming Jazz Festival. Here a casual 
atmosphere is created as the 
audience can recline on the floor." 
Remedies to Stepan's problems 
are not obvious. Ricci, however, 
offered possible solutions. "The 
first thing to do is to decide on a 
specific use. Stepan would be ideal 
as a round theatre to replace 
Washington Hall as a large auditor­
ium. The other major possibility 
would be to use Stepan strictly for 
athletic purposes."
I _____..__...___ I 
NEED LOW-COST 
I
I I
TRANSPORTATION? 
I 
We can help. Contact: 
I
I Auto Driveaway Co. 
674-9786 
I
I Deposit Required Returned at Destination I
._I _______..1
--Must be 21.-­


€ht (nlmriaJ 

Fancak£ House 
OUR SPECIALTY OVEN BAKED APPLE. PANCAKES 
You'II be back for more 
US 31 {Dixieway North) in Roseland {Across from Holiday Inn)

~·······~ 
-

'If on the pill, do not smoke,' stUdy warns 
NEW YORK (AI'l -Women o\cr 40 who u~.e birth nmtrnl pills run a much low t>r risk of death from heart attacks than recent reports had suggest :d--as Ion!! as they don't smoke. 
But pill users in their 40's who smoke more than IS cigarettes a dav die of heart attacks or blood d~ts nearly 12 times more frequen­tly than those who don't smoke at all. 
These were the. major findings of a new study of mortality risk and oral cont!Jl.ception that was repor­tnl Tuc~d;o\ tn rc~earch aual~·st Amlruch K l.1111 of The Population Council. 
The nc,,· data analvsis follows recent ~tudic-. in Great· Britain and the United State~ that indicated pill ~sers in general and especially those over 40. faced a much higher risk of death and both fatal and non-fatal heart attacks than others. 
Those studies have resulted in widespread fears. especially among women around 40. about use of the pill. On the basis of those studies. the Food and Drug Administration has proposed a revised lahcling of oral contracep­tives for physicians and patients. 

The proposed revision for physi­cians states that ''The use of oral contraceptives in women in this age group 40 and over is not recom · mended... 
The proposed revision for pa­tients states: "Although it is your decision. it is recommended that if you are over 40 years old you do not use the pill because of an increased risk of heart attacks from the pill." 
But those studies lumped to-
New WSND staff to take over 
by Janet Libert 

The newly appointed WSND AM and FM department heads will assume office Friday. April I, according to Peter Goerner, newly appointed Station Manager. The annual selection, made by the present station manager and de­partment heads, allows for "evalu­ation of where the station and the programs are headed.·· Goerner said. It also permits interested persons to be considered for the positions each year. 
Goerner, a junior government major, will replace Dom Fanuele as head of a]I station departments. He has worked at the station for the past two years, and held the position for record relations man­ager last year. Goerner hopes to "make sure the station responds to 
the needs of Notre Dame and St. Marv's... 
Specifically. he plan~ to work for a more technicallv consistent sound on both AM and FM and to acquire more underwriting for the non­commercial FM station. Goerner also intends to pursue more diver­sitied on-the-air programs. 
Steve Thomas. a junior govern­ment major. will continue his duties as AM program director. Thomas will oversee all aspects of promotion and on-the-air work. Goerner said. He has been with WSND since freshman vear. wor­ked as chief announcer sophomore year, and was program director this year. 
Tom Weber, as chief engineer. will be responsible for all technical aspects of the station. including installation, repairs. maintenance. 

remote broadcasts and monitoring. 
Weber has worked for the past three vears on the engineering staff. 
Ted Robinson will continue his duties as sports director of both the AM and FM stations. He is responsible for the sportscasts and broadcasts. For the past three years Robinson has done live sportscasting of several sports. 
Mike Murphy wa~ appointed news director for both WSND AM and FM. Polin· decision-.. news programs. and ,;ews reporting will be LJnder his direction. Murphy held the position of nc,, . ., program director last year. He was also a reporter and announcer. 
Goerner believes that "the many experienced people on the staff will make everything run more smooth­ly next year ... 
• d 

Rent my upstairs. $40.00 per month. Easter break. Call Kevin 8892. Hey Hank!,! I hear you have quite a Noodles: All 1 have to say is
~-------------------"ft·~----------­
Call 233-1329. ~~~~~~--~-~~~~~~ reputalton. Maybe we should talk "Everyone out of the pool by 6'"
cz 

~~~~~~-·----·
I ass,f{lle 
I 
I Ads 
I 
1 
NOTICES 
I S 
I 
ummer Europe fare: from.$287 to $379. Long and short duration flights weekly departures available. I 
:_a.'..'_~~~-=-8~-~~ anytime. MANAGEMENT WORK-:-STUDY 
PROGRAM THIS SUMMER atI Quantico, Virginia, free transporta­
~~~ks ~~~~ 7}~i7'or~~~ a~odar~; ,tgg 
per week. See the selection team in
I 
_t.;_~f~ _e· -~t~-d_m_en-~ ~epnt~: 

March
2 
~~ 1 0

1 
I 
--~--~ 
I WILL SEW RABBIT PERLTS INTO 
I 
~~~'::':~~~~~-IN_AL_'::_E._ 
1 
Accurate, fast typing. Mrs. Donoho. 232-0746. Hours: 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. 
1 
I 
EURoPE:-:wo'Ru)wi[)E'-a~ade~ic discounts year round S.A.T.A. 4228 First, Tucker, Ga. 30084 (800) 241-9082. -----~~-------­Easter buses to ChicaCJo will be leaving the main circle ·at 5:45 on both Sed., April6 and Thurs., April 
7. Tom 8338 for seat reservations. 

I 
1--------------­Tickets for April 17 Led Aeppelin concert at Market Square Arena in Indianapolis and the April 14 Rush-
Starcastle concert at Ft. Wayne
I Coliseum are now on sale at JUST 
FOR THE RECORD in the 100
I ~e~~~~~~~a~a~----~­
I 
1 I Greyhound bus to Chicago leaves Main Circle every Friday at 5:45. Call Tom at 8338 for seat reserva­lions. 
I 
California Street Stri011 sand for hoedowns, parties, dances call 288­
1-
77_32_.-----------~ 
~ 

N. 0. Finance Club is bullish on 
America! Mock Stock Market 10-3 Old Bus. Bldg. 
FOR RENT 

Rooms for rent this summer. very reasonable, and just a few blocks trom Notre Dame. Phone 277-3604. 
4 bedrooms, furnished apartment within walking distance of campus. Call William Hill, 232-1724. 
--------------~ 

I 
Summer apartmenl 2 bedroom, completely furnished including dish­washer and air conditioning. Fully carpeted. In nice area wilhin short 1 
walk to ND. Contact Chris after 6:00 p.m. at 277-0953. 
----~~~~-~---~~

I · 
.. ~­
Two bedroom house to rent. Sum­
mer and-or school year. 1012 Eddy 
Street. $120 _mo. plus utilities. Call 
Oddoes Harns at 232-8563. 
~~~~--~~~~---­5-bedroom house, real nice, large living room and kitchen, fully fur­nished, close to campus, has burglar alarm,caiiCharlieMoore272-7180. 
~----~~~~~~~~~~ 
Summer rental and-or next aca demic year. Great house. 8 rooms fully furnished. 4 bedrooms, 2 baths. Washer, dryer. Larroe lawn 
~~~_:1~~~~~4~~2 --~~ 
· -~~ ~~ 
Furnished ten-room house, avail­able last of May. Suitable tor 5 or 6 
~tu dHents: onecblock east ot Memor.
1
oa ospo 1a.1 all 232-4412 for more 
~f~~~~.:__-----~--­
LOST AND FOUND 
Found pair of glasses behind Fn11in­eering Bldg. Call Mike at 8953.­
---~---~------­
Lost: last week. Gold mechanical pencil. Probably on 2nd floor Library or between there and Keenan. Call 3408. 
Re;;-d't;;-r_s_;:-;ids~;;s;lko 
Watch lost in ACC before break. Much sentimental value. Larry 287­8301 or return to Lost and Found. 
-----------~-~­
Lost: gold cross on a chain Thurs. 
nile. probably in the bars. Reward. 
Please call Tom. 1421. 
Lost a pair of tinted prescription glasses in the second floor women's bathroom of LaFortune. Please re-tum them to 135 Lewis or call 6240. 1 can't afford a new pair. 
Lost: 5-subject spiral notebook. 
~_::~!~a~e_ca~~~~---­
Lost: Sapphire ring between 01 and North Quad. Sentimental value. Call Mary Seth 4-5470. 
1 eyeglass case with wire rimmed 
glasses from Village Court Optical _ Elm Grove Wisconsin. Contact·284­4552. 
Lost a silver modem pen Friday
before break. Brand: "Aurora". tf found please call Monica 7870. It's very importante. 
---------~----­
WANTED 
Ride to New Jersey on Tuesday or Wednesday, April 5 or 6. call Val 8125. 
Need ride to and from Miami for Easter break. Can leave Wed. ni11ht. I am desperate . call 1424 and -ask 
for Bob. 
Ride to U. of 1 -Champaign this Friday. Call 8081. 
--------~--~-­
Desperately need ride to Wichita, Kansas for Easter. Diane 4-4348. 
-----~------~-­
Need ride to and from Ft. Lauder­dale area for Easter break. Can' leave Wed. Will help with expenses. 
Wanted: Married student couple (one child okay) to live in, and be companions to 3 teen-age boys. Room and board in exchange. Would be requored to cook family dinner, do light housework and do minor house repairs. Exchange re­ferences. Call 288-1411 or 291-1814. Ask for Joan. 
~~--~---~-~ 
Wan•ed· Ride lo Chicaroo this Salur day. Call Debbie 8125.­
--~~~----~~~~~--~ 
FOR SALE 
For Sale: Vivilar 135 mm 1:2.8 autctelephoto lens, with case. sei: dom used. Call Chris 8208. 
~~~~~-~~~~~~~~~ 
'69 Camara, rebuilt enCJine or '69 

~~~~.:_s~~~--=~~~~~~ 
For Sale: '74 Ford Elite, dark blue with white vinyl roof, AM-FM stereo, air, power steering and brakes, rear defroster, 351 V-8. $3,250 or best offer. Call 272-9895. 
----~-----~~-~­
For Sale: Yamaha Guitar FG160, new last June, seldom used. Call Dick Ho!:kman Moreau 7735. 
------~-~-----­
PERSONALS 

Attention Third Floor Keenan: I deny having anything to do with the abuse that appeared in yester­day's Absurder!!! However, today is a different story. g 
--------------~ 
Dear Munich, My room has a great view of the Dome. Why don't you come up and visit me? MBA 
Larry Marstache, Happy B-day, Blue-eyes! Mary from ole Miss 
~~t~,a~~~~Vhe greatest, the 2nd's 
Buddy, Genna miss ya. See ya Saturday. Buddy 
Art, Happy 19th Birthday, you're 
coming up in the world. Mike ---------------· FRESHMEN! GRAB A DATE TO THE FORMAL, NOW! DO IT! 
Cathy Cambell, Here's your personal. 
Goz Boz, Remember_ It's Friday! so, don't eat eggs!! Mobil 
Dear Mom, 
Hope you have a Happy Birthday. We'll celebrate when we are all together. 
Love, Doug, Paul and Patricia 

--------~----~­
Hey Girls! Wouldn't you like a date with a man that looks like Omar Shariff, has the eyes of Paul Newman, the wit and charm of Alan Aida, and better yet, has money to bum and a luxury car to do it in???? If so, call Lawrence Marczak at 1639. 
~--------~~---­
Freshman Formal April 16th 9-1 
a.m. ACC Concourse Room. For 
gether both smoker-. and non-smo­kers among pill user~ aild therefore did not take iuto ;uTount the synergistic affects of pill and smoking combined. A synergistic effect is one that is greater than the simple addition of two factors. 
Further, during the period cov­ered by the earlier studies, 1968 to 1972, the estrogen hormone con­tent of hirth control oilIs was hiS?her 
than it is now. according to~Dr. Sheldon J. Segal of The Population Council. He said that indicated that current pill use might produce 
lower mortality figures. 
Jain, summing up his. study, said: "The safety of the pill should be considered separetely for smo­kers and nonsmokers because the effects are different. 
Kelly readies Irish 
[continued from page 121 
"We have good colege baseball players," summarized Kelly. "We can't rely on overwhelming talent to win ballgames. We have very good competitors--smart players. We have to play consistently to improve." 
Kelly particularly feels com­pelled to eliminate the amount of unearned runs his teams gave up last year. This fall. the team showed improvement in that area, and Kelly is hopeful that this spring will produce a lot of error­less ball. 
South Bend crime down 
Overall crime in South Bend fell 2.6 percent in last year from 1975, according to figures announced yesterday by the FBI. The City experienced, however, a large increase in the number of reported rapes, up 41.5 percent from a year ago, according to the AP. 
SOUTH BEND CRIME STATISTICS 
1975  1976  Pet. Change  
Murder  13  14  up 7.7  
Rape  41  58  up 41.5  
Robbery  367  354  down 3.5  
Assault  168  140  down 16.7  
Burglary  3,244  3;143  down 3.1  
Larceny  6,138  6,015  down 2.0  
Auto Theft  446  419  down 6.0  
TOTALS  10,417  10,143  tlown 2.6  
-­ 

aboutot sometome. An Admirer 
~~~~~~~--~~~~~­
Ah! II must be spring· all the water buffaloes are making their way to the water hole. 
~~~~~~~~~~-~~~~ 
UGLY MAN IS COMING SAVE YOUR PENNIES! 
~~~~~~~~~~-~~-­
llhinkthatlsh9llneverseeagirlas heinous as you, Dee. 
~~~~~-----~­
For Sale '69 Buick Opel Kadett. Good condition. Dependable. Best offer. 277-0352 after 5 p.m. 
~~~-~~-~---~--~ 
MAD, Happy Birthday to youHappy Birthday to you 
Wlf eyo'lul mho.atkbeaackrhaacnkde,t too. 
_A_r-ma-nd~o-, ~-~----~-~JF 
This space is reserved for the abuse I'm not giving you. please don't munch on my head. Tee-hee. 
-------~------­
Desperately need ride to Cleveland Friday or Saturday to attend friend's wedding. Call Mary 4524. 
Feeling depressed? ND-SMC Hot­
~-=-~~~~~s.:_________ 
Riders needed. Girlfriend is driving from N.J. to NO on Mon. April 11, and returning Sun. April 17. Call Dave 3408. 
Detroit Club Will help you find a summer job. For info call 233-3605 now. 
Dear Cindy S. from Badin: This note is addressed to a beautiful and very special person. I have discovered your identity, and extend an invitation to discern mine. My intentions are sincere, will yours 
~~~_:_~~e~~::~~~~~~ 
Detroit Club annual Junior-Senior dinner sponsored by Alumni Club . April13, 1977. Call 233-3605 for info and reservations. 
To the Keerianites that have not 
been specifically abused this issue, Sorry. Aftertheformallshouldhave more material. 
Jeff, Congratulations! You've been chosen to receive the Best House; keeper of the year award. Keep up
the good work. A touch of class! 
Detroit Club elections for 1977-.78 
scheduled for 1st week in May.. Nominations call 233-3605 or write Det. Club, 714 N. St. Louis, South Bend, 46617 by April 18th. 
Ugly, Can I have your refrigerator next year? Bitsey 
Hey Schneids! Nice Personal!· 
-------~------­
Baby Face, 

Thanks for a super time Friday! Some word~ !lf advicE. Avoid using the blue card anymore than you have to. P.S. How's your end of the bargain holding up? Eight Inches 
---------~----­~peaking of bargains, ther~'s still a 
See you the 15th. The Crashers 
Roses are red, Violets are blue, Today's Ray Urban's birthday, 
And he's just waiting to collect kisses from you. 
~------~~---­
Hey Chris, Would you like to place a little wager on who looks better Sunday afternoon? Tee-hee. 
~--~----~---­
Dear Flaming Flirt in Music: How would you like a threesome some­time? The Other Two-thirds 
P.S. Or perhaps you were onlyinterested in one-halt of us? The Other Halt 
Tc;~--;.Sr-;;-o-;;;ies--:-v~-;;;-are the greatest! Being one of the "6­
~=~~,L~~~.~~~:s~~-~n;.f~B~ear the 
Help with the Headstart Program to clean 324 (the Pill. 
-----~--------­
Orlando, Don't knock it until you try it. Love, J. F. -----------==--­
J.F. Knock any time you want. 
--------------~ 
~~m~~~~fo/c;.;ot~e ga~~~-Ph~~~ 
8870, Sat. 10-12. 
Vicki & Fran: Why did you kick your poor room. mateouttosleepinthehaiiTuesday night? Who was spending the night with you?? 
P.S. At least you did it with style, though. Thanks for leaving me my toothbrush and stuffed animals. 
Now that's what I call abuse. 
By first Presidential Order, Wall Ung is no longer welcome in Breen­Phillips Hall. 
Quick as a dodo is here! 
Dear Boss Lady: 
Are you expecting a commission on those rabbit pelt ads? Well you ain't getting one! 
MAB -----------.--..-­Attention: N.J. & NY residents 
round trip bus available to NYC for 
Easter. Appx S35. Info call 287-9453 N.D. Lacrosse Club. 
Well, guys, this is all I can come up with today. I'll try again tomorrow. .---.,-----.,-...._----­
Amtrak to St. Louis over Easter break S33. Round trip. For'ms in. Student Activities, LaFortune. 
Vote for Mo Reynolds for Ugliest Man on Campus. (She'll win even without this personal!) Compliments 
of the Mo Reynolds forr'tiMOC Committee 
Need ride to D.C. area for Easter break. Will share expenses, etc. Call John 8707. · 
John­. Thanks for the cake a"' ,the birthday kiss. But thanks the most for the M&M's. (We'll go to the 
Please contact Cris 4-4983 or Beth tickets and information contact your Iotti~ matte~ of an unpaod debt, movies with you anytime). 4 4992. freshman hall representative. Chros. I don t plan to forget. Joan & Bam 
; ..."" • , • ' • .. • • • • ' . • ~~ •.• 4 .;. • ~ ., ., • • • • • • • t ~ • • • • • • ~ • .. • ~,. .• 
,),r···f·•·~·..t··;f_.;".f-••..•.,.*"'•~,._.,.~~ ~:-·~··""{·•2··~~,.\t :t!'·•_J-'·•· -.,-··.:-:""!,.•'t'•a-(.'"-•:•.•••;:~·if!" ..?;.--•.~-..J'"''1)' 
L--------------------------------------..-­
.. 

12 the observer Thursday, March 31, 1977 
Kelly set for sophomore season 
r I 
~ 
I 
~ 
I 
I I 
by Gregory Solman Sports Writer 

Last spring, for the first time in 42 years, Notre Dame's baseball team took the diamond under a new coach. The team reacted well to the implementation of the new mentor, Dr. Tom Kelly, winning nine of their last thirteen games. This spring, though Kelly doesn't prom­ise an NCAA championship, there looks to be an exciting season in store for the Irish. 
The Notre Dame baseball system is not as new to Kelly as it might appear. Serving as an assistant to the man he succeeded. Clarence "Jake" Kline, Kelly viewed the system from the inside for many years, then worked quite success­fully in an administrative position of Notre Dame's non-varsity sports. Now, Kelly is back to baseball, as the head coach and with a different view of the program. 
"One thing is obvious to me," commented Kelly. "It was good for me to get away from the program and get a fresh look. College baseball has changed in the last few years. My number one priority was to get to know everyone last year. Every coach has their own conception of what is going to help them, and I didn't want to enter the program with any preconceived notions. We tried to start all over again and take a long look.·' 
After a "long look," Kelly has produced a team with good poten­tial to play consistent baseball. Combining solid pitching with good hitting, the team promises to give competing teams a run for their money, as the spring break trip indicated. 
choke-up. single-hitting this season behind the plate.
Monte Towle:====================================================================================================:====================:==========================:=:=:===:=;=========:=======:=:=======;=:=:=;=;=================;=;===;=;=;=;=;=;===;=;=:=:=:=:=:=:=:===:=:=:=:=====:=====:===:=:=:===:=========:=:=:===:== 
American League East 
==================:============;=;=;========:======:=====~===========:============:=======:=:=========:===:===================·=;===;=====;============:=========:~==:===================·====::=:::==================:=================:======~=:=:===:=====:= repeat? 
The team traveled earlier this 
year to Memphis, Temmessee and 
Cleveland. Mississippi to play 
some excellent southern teams, 
some of which were into their 
fifteenth or twentieth games of the 
season. Meanwhile, due to incle­
ment South Bend weather, Notre 
Dame's players had to rely on what 
they could get out of practicing 
indoors at the ACC--which, usually 
isn't much. 

However, the team emerged with a relatively respectable 
4-8 road record which was 
not bad considering the teams they 
faced (Christian Brothers College, 
Memphis State, Delta State and 
University of Tennessee) were as 
tough as any teams will probably 
be for the remainder of the season. 
If nothing else, the team proved it 
could hold its own against some of 
the better college pitchers as they 
struck out fifteen less times than 
their opponents did over the twelve 
game stretch. 

Most importantly, Kelly's team can boast aggressiveness and smart ball-playing, assets that could pay off in better fashion once the players get further into the season. For now. KeJly is still worried about opening game at . Notre Dame, as weather conditions might stymie the traditional home opener. If the weather continues to be cool. the Irish might be again forced indoors where they have been working since mid-January. 
"Inside, we basically work on the conditioning of the arms and the legs," related Kelly. "But that's just not the same as being outside in the weather conditions. If we can get more work done on the field, I think we have strong potential to be a consistent ball team." 
The 1977 American League East Division boasts the most talented baseball teams in recent history. One does not imagine a team with a bench that includes Paul Blair, Jim Wynn, Lou Piniella and Carlos May when actually there does exist such a team in New York City. It goes by the nickname of Yankees; a team with the four aforementioned stars serving as mere backups to the outfield triumvirate of Roy White, Mickey Rivers and millionaire Reggie jackson (baseball's version of an ordinary superstar). 
If there is a weak spot on the Yankees it might be shortstop Fred Stanley, a .238 hitter in 1976. Stanley is a good glove man in an infield that also includes first baseman Chris Chambliss, last year's homerun hero in the playoff conquest of Kansas City, speedy second baseman Willie Randolph and third sacker Graig Nettles. who with 32 homers won last year's home run crown. 
The 1976 AmericanLeagueMVP catcher for the Yankees and a good bet to knock in over 100 runs again, Thurman Munson, has to be drooling over the pitching staff he will be working with. Ed Figueroa (19-10), Dock Ellis (17-8), Catfish Hunger (17-15). Ken Holtzman (14-11) and flamethrowing, free agent signee Don Gullett (11-3). comprise a crew of starters second to none. And if they're ever needed, relievers Sparky Lyle, Dick Tidrow and Ron Guidry can nail victories down. It's only up to Manager Billy Martin to push the right buttons. 
Don't mention the Yankees around Boston Red Sox fans though. because they believe their New England heroes are the best in the AL East. Conceivably, Manager Don Zimmer has a stable of horses that, if kept tame, could make a strong run at New York. 
It looks as though star outfielder Fred Lynn. shortstop Rick Burleson 
and catcher Carlton Fisk are finally contract-content. Lynn, unl1ke 
what most over-expectant critics might say, had a good year in 1976 
batting.314, althoug his RBI production can stand improvement. He 
will play in between Carl Yastrzemski, who knocked in I02 runs lastyear 
and Dwight Evans, one of the best defensive outfielders anywhere. 
George Scott returns to the pastures of Fenway park at first base 
with youngster Butch Hohson and veteran Denny Doyle probably 
occupying third and second, respectively. 
Now that pitcher Luis Tiant (22-13) has finally had his back scratched 
with a new pact. Boston's mound corps may be ready. Rick Wise 
(14-11), Reggie Cleveland (10-9). Fergie Jenkins (12-11) and Bill Lee 
are strong starters. although the latter two must recover from injuries. 
Of course. relievers Jim Willoughby, Ron Murphy and Tom House will 
be joined by Bill Campbell ( 17-5 with the Twins last year). A healthy 
Red Sox team ~pells trouble for the Yankees. _ 
Third place in the East will be nothing to nl(lan about. especially if 
you happen to like the Detroit Tigers. A team rapidly on the rise, the 
Tigers will most likely climb back over .500 in 11.)77. Wlw~ Well first of 
all there's Steve Kemp, a USC graduate and a good prc-~ca~on choice 
for star rookie honors. Kemp is a strong hitter and should complement 
an outfield which also includes 96 RBI ma1. H'tsty Staub and 
lightening-quick Ron Leflore. who batted .31 h a:1d stok 58 bases last 
year. A healthy Willie Horton will be valuable at DH while Aurelio 
Rodriguez returns his rifle arm at third. 
Once you get past Mark "Big Bird" Fidrych (19-9), everyone·~ ·superstar rookie of a year ago. nothing is solid among the Tiger 
pitching ranks. Vern Huhle (9-12). Dave Roberts ( 16-1 7) and Ray Bare 
{7-8) arc all capable hut lack anything d'lsc to the stnppn status of a 
Fidrych or possibly. ll4j all! I coming ··o•1i,;:c Dave Rozema. John Hiller 
returns a:; the Til!crs' ace t:rcm.•r:. 
The Irish certainly aren't lacking in talent to achieve that goal. In the outfield, Notre Dame boasts cap­tain Stan Bobowski in center field. 
1

Bobowski hit .302 in a junior year · plagued with injuries, and has had a strong spring thus far. Mike Galloway will most likely start in right fi-eld. Galloway is one of the faster members of the team and is a master of the hit-and-run. Left field appears to be up for grabs, as Dave DeFacci and Bill Starr both showed good potential ori the spring trip. 
Dan Carey and Greg Zebold will aliso vie for, outfield spots, and Kelly has cited great potential in each of them. 
Around the diamond, things look encouraging. Shortstop and second base look solid, with Rich Pullano and Frank Fiascki ready to smother anything hit up the middle. Pul­lano. who hit .325 his freshman season, continued with his hot bat at a torrid .530 clip last fall. Pullano is also the team leader in walks, and as a leadoff man was on base slightly less then half of the time this spring. Fiascki is another talented infielder defensively with good range at second base. He was the Irish leading hitter last spring. 
Rick Greenwell gives Notre Dame a solid and cool element at the hot corner. Though not flashy in style, Greenwell is an enthusiastic, good spirited third baseman. Bob Cleary, though he developed ten­donitis one summer, hasrecovered enough to vie for that spot also. 
At the other corner of the diamond, Jim Abbatiello and Dave Smith should be sharing duties this season. While Smith is an excellent 
Coach Tom Kelly. style. 

Dan Voellinger. who, according to Kelly, "Improved 100 percent defensively last year," is also a potential offensive threat. Pollack, meanwhile, led the club in batting 
defensive first bagger, Abbatiello last fall with a .533 average. Tom is a fiery competitor at the plate Szwak should also see some action with his 
The Cleveland Indians arc a stronger team than the 1976 version. Even still, they should once again occupy only fourth place by season's end. Frank Robinson has decided to become a fulltime manager. and without George Hendrick it will be a task replacing Robbie's bat. There's aging Boog PowelL but _he'll be challenged by new arrival· Andre Thornton at first base. And let's not forget DH Rico Carty, a .310 hitter in 1976, back with the Indians as a result of a trade with Toronto. 
The Indian infield features second baseman Duane Kuiper. an outstanding fielder. shortstop Frank Duffy and hotcornerman Buddy Bell who is coming off a strong year. The outfield is solid with Golden Glover Rich Manning, Johnny Grubb and Charlie Spikes. However, Spike's is still in search of his homerun bat. 
Wayne Garland, a 20 game winner with the Orioles in 1976, headmans the list of pitchers. Joining him w1ll be AI Fitzmorris (IS-II). another "steal" from the expansion Blue Jays, Jim Bibby ( 13-7). Pat Dobson ( 16-12) and Dennis Eckersley ( 13-12). Handling the lndianpitcherswillbecatcherRayFosse,a.JOI hitterlastyear. Dave LaRoche and Jim Kern coming out of the bullpen keep the Indians fairly solid. 
Solid is not the word for the Baltimore Orioles. Only the Bird outfield resembles anything close to the Earl Weaver teams of recent years. Pat Kelly comes over from the White Sox and will battle newcomer Elliot Maddox for the left field position with AI Bumbry in center and Ken Singleton in right. 
Brooks Robinson has finally been demoted to playet:-coach. leaving the hot corner for either Doug DeCinces or Rich Dauer. with Bobby Grich gone. the ''loser'' of the third base battle will probably end up at second. Shortstop Mark Belanger and first baseman Lee May (25 HR. 109 RBI's) remain intact at their positions. The same cannot be said for th'e Oriole pitching. Without Garland and "releasee" Mike Cuellar. Cy Young award winner Jim Palmer (22-13) must carry the pitching load with help from Rudy May (I 1 -7) and Ross Grimsley (8-7). You might say that the O's won't be getting off the ground in 1977. 
That docsn't say much for the Milwaukee Brewers who will tin ish behind Baltimore. But simply. Manager Alex Grammas has a lot of work ahead of him. Sure the Brewers gained free agent Sal Bando who · is a competent third baseman. But. what happens to Don Money'? Put him at first and let newcomer Cecil Cooper swing the DH bat'? After a!l. Sal pounded 27 homers last year and Grammas doesn't want to upset the former Oakland A's captain. Baby Robin Yount and Tim Johnson, their anemic batting abilities includen. are set at ~hortstop and second base. respectively. 
Grammas will have hi~ choice from the depth!> of mediocrity in an outfield consisting of Vou Joshua, Jamie Quirk and Jim Wohlford. The dcpartun;s of Jim Colburn and Pete Broberg Jca,·e the Brewers with a pitchi ·1g rotation of Bill Travers (15-In) . .Jim Slaton ( 14-15) ann Jerry . Aug::stine (9-12.) This leaves Alex Grammas with little depth. hope or wins for the upcoming season. 
The situation is even worse for the expansion Toronton Blue Jays and rookie Manager Roy Hartsfield First of all. the Blue Jay management may have erred in"giving away" Rico Carty and pitcher AI Fitnnorri~. 
I might be wrong though and the youth they obtained might come through. That leaves the latest Canadien entrv in the nwjor lc.t.~u·:~ with a "nucleus" of pitchers Bill Singer and StcH' H~lrgan. o•:tficltkr--. John Lowenstein and Otto Velez and cakhcr Phil l~onf. II :11ntliin!.!. it is an opportunity for minor leaguers whos pro~pc,·t iH· ca1 «r·-. d, ,:, ·nd on such expansion. 

(photo by Tim Krause) On the mound, Jim Sholl, Don Wolfe, and Mike Bobinski will be in the starting rotation for certain, with the fourth spot to go either to Joe Leahy or Mark Carney, both of whom looked good in the team's first outings. Wolfe, a southpaw, is a smart, control pitcher with good compo­sure on the mound. In the three games he pitched within the span of one week this spring, he compiled a 2.11 E.R.A. Sholl, meanwhile, started the season with a shutout victory and also uses the plate to his advantage. Bobinski has potentially the best velocity of all the pitching staff and would be aided greatly by more experience this season. If one looked for potential prob­lems, jt would be in the team's basic slowness on the basepaths and their lack of depth. The first problem is nothing Coach Kelly can help--he simply hasn't got speed demons on the team. The second problem Kelly is tackling head on, putting assistant coach Joe Lentych in charge of the reserves. "I am putting a real stress on reserves this year,·· emphasized Kelly. • 'I see a real potential in the freshmen on our team. Joe Lentych is enthusiastic and experien·ced, and can help our younger kids tremendously." Kelly's coaching philsophy inc­ludes stressing small things and basics. because. as he puts it, "if you can execute the little things, I think. the big things take care of themselves." Still. in this his second year as mentor for the Irish. Kelly sees this year as a growth year. "We just have to play very consistent baseball if we want to improve." commented Kelly. "We play excellent teams over the course of the year. and when we make mistake-s. they arc good enough to take advantage of them. We certainly still have potential for a good. solid year."" Kellv. who received a masters from P~nn State and a doctorate for Notre Dame in educational admini­stration. would like vcrv much to improve upon last \'Car~ I o-24 record. !continued on page 111 
Bookstore b-ba/1 
sign-ups close 

The 1977 BllOkstorc Basketball Tournament ha~ completed regi­stration of 2:'>(1 tl·ams it was announced Ia~! 11".:ht br tourna­ment din·v!Pr 'rint -BouJTl"t. :\ppropri.tll'h. 111,-final team rq-:1-.t.-rnl "_,, n.lllll'd "'Thl' 2:'>oth 
T,·.l!n · 


