( / 
Bowl ticket allotme11t short of student de1nand 
by Diane WUson was small, Busick said that it is Senior Staff Reporter consistent with past years. In the 1975 Orange Bowl, the last major
At. 10:15 a.m. yesterday the last bowl Notre Dame participated in,of lhe student tickets for the Cotton the amount of student tickets taken Bowl were sold according to Mike from the total Notre Dame allot­Busick, ticket manager. When the ment was 18 percent. This year'stickets ran out there were still 100 student ticket allotment also repre­students in line whose names were sents 18 percent ofthe total amount put on a waiting list in case any of Cotton Bowl tickets alloted .tn. 
more tickets become available. 
Notre Dame. 
Busick stated that it was "ser­Since this allotment appears . .to...
iously doubtful" that there would be insufficient to meet studentbe any alumni tickets left. He demand, Busick commented thatadded that there would probably be there will probably be a change ofsuch a demand that there would be policy in the future. While he has
a lottery. Busick explained how the lottery 
no idea what this change will would work. Friday after the mail 
entail, he said it would be made. 
is opened and the applications before Notre Dame participates in counted, all applications received any more bowl games. After this. so far will be shuffled together. 
game has been played, Busick said, a committee willl get together andFrom these applications will be study the situation and discussdrawn out those who will not get tickets. Presently Busick does not ways to eliminate such problems in the future: H1e concluded, how-.
know how many people will lose ever, that nothing can be done
their tickets in the lottery. While this year's ticket allotment about this year. 

Constitution ratification proposal submitted 
by Kevin Walsh ment of three new people to the posed by the committee is the McLean, include expansion Of the procedure would require that any­Senior Staff Reporter Board of Commissioners. Replac­establishment of a Student Union Board of Commissioner's powers petition contain the signatures of ing the three S1udent Life Council Steering Committee which will as well as clarification of the 200 students rather than the pres­
An ad hoc Constitution com­members, ouste:d as a result of a replace the present Student Union mechanics of its meetings. ent requirement of 15 percent of mittee, appointed by Hall Presi­recent Board of Trustee action, will Board of Directors. The Steering In addition, the Student. Union student body signatures. A new dent Council (HPC) Chairman J. P. be the Student Union director, Committee shall be composed of has been delegated more power one-week time limit is proposed by Russell and agreed upon by Stu­another person elected from the the SU director, SU comptroller, over their own operations, while the committee. For referendums, dent Body President Dave Bender HPC, ahd the m:wly-created Judic­and three SU commissioners to be the Board of Commissioners has the committee recommends that 
Tues.night submitted a proposal to ial Co-ordinator. • elected by their fellow commission­been empowered with the ability to the Board of Commissioners be the HPC to ratify the existing The new position of Judicial ers. check the acf.ons of the SU. forced to act upon a student Student Government Constitution. Co-ordinator is a result of the Also, the newly-proposed Consti­The committee's proposal also petition within two weeks after the 
Labeled "an ambiguous and creation of the Judicial Council. tution requires that all elections for calls for the keeping of accurate presentation of the petition. outdated document" by Bender, The co-ordinator, formerly selected hall presidents be held before records by the Student Government According to McLean, there will the previous constitution, adopted by the student body president, will March 15. This would allow for the treasurer and comptroller. These be a closed meeting of the ad hoc in the fall of 1972,. is set to undergo now be selected by the Judicial selection of a Judicial Board chair­records shall be available for committee this Friday to discuss several changes if the proposals of Council. The co-ordinator's duties man by April 1 and would also inspection upon the request of any and examine suggestions brought the three-member board are include assisting students in viola­standardize hall election pro­student. up as last night's HPC meeting. passed by the individual hall tion of a dO:UIC rule, fostering cedures. Procedures for an initiative or Then, on Sunday, further discus­councils. educational programs in dormi­Other proposed amendments by referendum are also changed under sion will take place, as well as 
The committee, consisting of tories, and seeilllg that the judicial the committee, according to the new proposal. The initiative [Continued on pag~ 91 Tracy Kee, executive co-ordinator boards in each hall are operational. of the HPC; Tom Byrne, student In addition, the co-ordinator, in government press secretary; and event of a question regarding the 
FBI releases Kennedy files
Bill McLean, a former Ombudsman interpretation of the Constitution, director, proposed several new will serve as chairman of a five­WASHINGTON [AP] Two of any Cuban government role in
major amendments to the existing member Judicial Board Council The material may be of greatest 
weeks, after John F. Kennedy'!! Kennedy's death. 

constitution. that will assemble to resolve the value for what it shows about the According to Kee, the first major problem. death, FBI Director J. Edgar While the documents indicated inside operations of the FBI as the 
Hoover was convinced that Lee that Hoover pondered the possibil­bureau handled one of its mostchange proposed is the appoint-A third major amendment pro-Harvey Oswald was _jhe assassin ity of a conspiracy, preliminary important missions ever. It is a but he wondered at least briefly examination of the FBI files turned 
picture that has emerged only in · whether Oswald had help from up nothing to disapprove the vague outline until now. 

Cuban conspirators, according to Warren Commission's finding that Two hours after Kennedy was FBI files released yesterday. Oswald acted alone. 
·pronounced dead in a Dallas hos­The documents show Hoover had The ftles released yesterday pital at 2 p.m. EST on Nov. 22,concluded within hours after Ken­show that Hoover was anxious to Hoover wrote that he had told the 
nedy's death that Oswald fired the find out who had killed Kennedy, president's brother, Attorney Gen­fatal bullets. But the agency later and portrayed him as deeply con­eral Robert F. Kennedy, that obtained letters, written to Oswald cerned about protecting the FBI's 

Oswald was the assassin and that from Cuba, and those messages image. The documents show that he had been apprehended near the 
raised the perplexing conspiracy Hoover went to great lengths to Texas Scho[)) Book Depositoryquestions which linger to this day. counteract criticism of the bureau. 

where the shots were fired. Hoover later labeled one of the The 40,001 pages of files, weigh­But on Dec. 12, Hoover confided letters an apparent hoax. ing nearly a half ton, offer a rich to his chief aides that he was The mountain of material offers tapestry of the tragedy and drama troubled by the conspiracy ques­fresh clues about Hoover's sus­rippling from the gunfire in Dallas tions and was unsure how to 
picions of a conspiracy, but does on Nov. 22, 1967. The FBI released resolve them. Reporting on a not reveal how he resolved them. It the documents, half of its total file conversation with a callr, Hover will take historians and researchers on the Kennedy assassination, to 
wrote, "I said I personally believe months or even years to evaluate comply with requests under the Oswald was the assassin; that the 

this batch of FBI files and more yet Freedom of Information Act. The second aspect as to whether he was to come. other 40,000 pages are due for the only man gives me greatHoover, of course, was hardly release in January. 
concern; that we have several alone in pondering the possibility The memos include confidential 

Ielters ... written to him from· Cuba of a Cuban connection. Oswald reports passed among the highest referring to the job he was going to 
had spoken of his admiration for officials of the government. And do, his good marksmanship a'-d 

Cuban chief of state Fidel Castro they include letters from ordinary stating when it was all over, he and he had distributed pro-Castro 
citizens expressing outrage and would be brought back to Cuba and leaflets in New Orleans. sorrow and, in some cases, intesne , presented to the chief." Castro has denied that Cuba was intense hatred of the Kennedy 
. Hoover continued, "We do net 
involved in the assassination in any family. Some documents were . know if the chief was Castro and 
way. The Warren Commission censored to delete material classi­cannot make an investigation be-concluded after its im· ·s~•~ation of fied as secret or otherwise exempt 1cause we have 1no intell~gencethe case that there w •s no evidence from disclosure. 
contlaaed 011 JJaRe t'tr 





Thursd~y, December 8, 1977
the obseryer 


,_News Briefs-------... 
L~::==:::=========::= Nationall 
Abortion dispute ends 
I • 
WASHINGTON -Congress, weary of dissension from a four-month long dispute, came to terms yesterday on when the government will pay for poor women's abortions. 'rhe House-Senate agreement was in tim~ to avert pre-Christmas pay cuts for more than a quarter of a million federal employees whose agencies were on the verge of running out of money for the third time this year. On a voice vote, the Senate went along with a House proposal outlining the conditions for the Medicaid-funded abortions during the remainder of the fiscal year. The Senate agreed to a House-passed measure requiring two physcians to certify that a woman would suffer serious, long-lasting physical health damage froma full-time pregnancy before the federal government would pay for an abortion. 


Curtis to quit Demo Party 
WASHINGTON -Kenneth Curtis is quitting his job as chairman of the Democratic Party but will remain in the post until the White House finds a replacement, President Jimmy Carter's chief spokesman said yesterday. White House Press Secretary Jody Powell denied suggestions that Curtis, one of Carter's early supporters, was being forced out be White House staff members, although some involved with political operations at the White House are know to have been dissatisfied with his work. 


Brahma bullies U.S. mail 
OKLAHOMA CITY-Neither rain nor cold nor dark of night can stay the faithful postman from his appointed rounds, but a snorting Brahma bull brought the U.S. mail to a temporary halt here yesterday. A horned, black Brahma rampaged into a fenced mail loading area about 9 a.m. He is a refugee from a nearby packing plant. "Some guys from the packing plant were trying to catch him, and that bull jumped right onto the dock," Joe Carrel, dock supervisor, said, noting the loading dock was more than four fee high. For some 20 minutes, the bull challenged all comers and refused to budge from the dock, Carrel said, successfully halting operations during one of the post office's busiest periods of the day. 



WEATHER 
A travelers advisory is in effect for today with an 80 percent chance of snow, accumulating between two and four inches. Highs today in the mid 20s. Snow diminishing to flurries tonight with heavy snow developing near Lake Michigan and lows between 10 and 15. Snow flurries likely tomorrow with heavy snow possible near Lake Mchigan. 
1 

,_On Campus Today_~ 
1-4 pm 
4 pm 

4:30· ·6:15pm 
5:30pm 
7:30pm 
8 pm 

midnight­
12:30 am 6:30-8 am 
health career day, sponsored by smc career development center, angela athletic facility 
seminar, "kinetics and dynamics of michelle equilibria," dr.. mats almgren, nd. sponsored by radiation lab, open to all. conf. rm. rad. lab. 
christmas banquet, entertainment, all smc commu­nity invited. free to off campus and day students. st. mary's dining hall. dessert served in stapleton. 
footballtanquet, annual nd football team banquet, 
reception at 5:30, dinner at 7 pm.  arena ace.  call  
233-8262 for tickets  
lecture/discussion,  "The liberal  arts  tradition,"  

prof. katperine tillman, nd. lib. lounge. sponsored by general program of liberal studies. 
nd-smc theatre, "the caucasian chalk circle," o'laughlin aud. call4-4176 for tickets. also dec. 9 & 10. 
film, featuring abbott & costello, darby's place. 
am this morning, mike ridenour & cathy murray, wsnd am 640 



Free University sign-ups delayed 
by Bob Brink Ass't. Managing Editor 
Sign-ups for the spring semester of the Free University will not begin until late January, according 

Ito Dan McCormack, director of the program. This breaks with the method used for the first two semesters of the Free University, when students enrolled in courses a semester in advance. · 
McCormack explained that the reason the sign-up time had been pushed back was to eliminate the large time· span between enroll­ment and the beginning of classes. This time gap created problems 
.because people would come back for the new semester and discover they had something going on that conflicted with their Free Univer­sity class. 
"Attendance has been our big­gest problem this year, both on the 
Commuters' slate activities 

fcoatlnued from page 31 and phone with an outside line. One of the recent activities sponsored by the commuter stu­dents was the Happy Hour at the Library last Thursday. Today the group will sponsor a tree decora­ting party in the Day Student Lounge located in the lower level of Madeleva Hall. All commuter students are invited. The sale of off-campus T-shirts 
starts next Wednesday in the Madeleva Lounge. The T-shirts are black with "ND/SMC Com­
muter Community" written in 

\*************************************************** 

~ I FOUND IT! · ! 
* * 
: at the1 :
* .. * 

! NOTRE DAME APARTMENTS 1i 
* * 
* *
! CLOSE ;fO CAMPUS! i ! APART~ENTS STILL A V AIL~LE a ! IMMEDIATE OCCUPANCY ! ! 2 bedrooms --completely furnished \ · ! 
! complete kitchen and dining room . :: 
* * 
: $280 -300/ ~pnth up to 4 students :: 
1 

·: call Cand_r at 233-6363 or 234-664i ! ***********************~*······...··•************~ 
part of students and teachers," 

said McCormack. "It's definitely 
been lower than previous semes­
ters." 
McCormack said that some ab­

sence is only natural because 
"Free University courses will take 

second place to a student's other 
studies." Absences for this reason 
are to be expected, he said, adding 
that it was their goal "to eliminate 
people not showing up simply 
because they forgot." Thus, a 
second reason for delaying enroll­
ment is to keep the Free University 
fresher in the minds of the stu­
dents. 
Enrollment for next semester's 
courses will take place on Monday, 
Jan. 30 and Tuesday, Jan. 31. 
Classes will start the week of 
Monday, Feb. 13. The booklet 
describtng the courses should be 
distributed shortly after Christmas 
break. 
There will be 46 courses offered next semester, compared to this semester's offering of 48. How­ever, almost 75 percent of those offered next semester will be new courses. 
Some of the popular courses that 
are returning are those dealingwith mixology, bridge, auto mechanics, and magic. Some 
promising new selections, McCor­mack said, are courses about the 
Beatles, pocket billiards, beer 
making, and skiing. This last one will be taught by a ski instructor from Michigan and will involve a few ski trips. 
The computer system that was first used for this fall's registration worked well and will be used again, McCormack said. However, a new method will be used to tell students where and when their classes will be held. Before, students had to obtain this information after they had registered. Now they will be told as they sign up. 
The Free University was estab­lished in the fall of 1976 under the guidance of Charlie Moran, a 1977 Notre Dame graduate. Its purpose is to offer students non-conven­tional courses in which teachers and students can work without the pressures of normal university progra~s. 


~~~~~lt;~~~~~~~~~~~~4A
~.........-. .......... ~·~~.........
.. ­
. 

~OF THE IMMACUlATE CONCEPTION D 

r-------------,
Lewisio's 
1 11

IS h tf • D. 1 1 
I pag e I Inner. 
1 $2 f 11 t I

I or a you can ea I I (last of the semester) I 1 1 1 basement of Lewis 1 
1 I 

1 1 
I C a II 2156 1 
1 for reservations I
a.--------------1 

A solemn University Uturgy will 
be oolebrated at s:00 p.m. at Saaed Hear1 Church Thursday, Demrmer 8th.
~ Aindpal Celebrant: Rev. Richard P. 
Demrmer 8th is a holy day 
of obligation. 
lang, CSC. 

Be Hair Free and Feminine 


Miss Connie has a word of aduice for 
the holiday time. Look your best, haue 
the world famous Kree Dermatron 
Method of Electrolysis remoue unwanted 
hair from face, arms, legs permanently. 
Call for a personal consultation without 
charge. 

By Appointment \O'nly' Lower Level of 277-1691 Queen's Castle\ 54533 Terrace Lane i across from Greenwood Shopping Center. 



ThursdayI December 8, 1977 the observer 





Rape prevention program outlined 

by MoUy WouHe Police Departme:nt: L.t Joseph Newman continued, "not one of the assault and should call the possible and bring them to the 
Molnar and legal advisor Howard passion, not one of sexual police who will need a description police. "We know it's one of the Over 125 students gathered last Williams. 
impulses. It is an agressive and of the assailant, when and where toughest and most traumatic things night in Carroll Hall at St. Mary's Newman opened the lecture with 
hostile act by a man who probably she was attacked and what she was you've ever experienced," he told for the presentation "Rape Aware­her definition of rape. "By law does not have a good self-image doing at the time. the audience. "So for that reason ness and Prevention", sponsored rape is carnal knowledge--sexual and may not relate well to "Most women don't want to talk we've assigned a full-time police
by St. Mary's Department of 
intercours--of a person with force women." about it," Newman remarked. detective--who is a woman--to our Student Affairs. Lecturers at the and without consent, assuming Newman suggested that an "Society puts the blame on the staff to help investigate these program were Mara Newman, those two people are not spouses," assaulted woman immediately seek woman, but it's not her fault. She crimes. I hope you never need her 
president of both the Women's Newman stated. "This means it is medical care and consider continu­is the victim. It is his fault." services, but if you do, she is 
Committee on Sexual Assault and not illegal for a husband to rape his ing with the legal aspects of the "The Sex Offense Staff are available on a twenty-four hour 
the Sex Offense Staff, and two wife." 
case. She should inform the trained volunteers, on call 24 hours basis," he said. 
members of the St. Joseph County "Rape is violent crime," 
doctors to take medical evidence of a day. I think it's important we Williams' talke dealt with the help each other," she said. prosecution of rapists. He also Last year there were an estimat­stressed writing down every detail ed 80 rapes in the South Bend area, of the assault. "Burn it in your
Aspir!n study results issued 
Newman noted. "The FBI says one mind, you'll need it," he advised. 
BOSTON [AP] . -Aspirin can heart anacKs by preventing forma-cine that's quite cheap ana easy w in five is reported," she pointed ''A defense lawyer will use every protect male surgery patients -but tion of clots. The study involves manage, it's a great advantage." out. ''That means within our trick in his book to make sure you not female ones -from forming 4,SOO patients have already had Harris said more studies are general community there is a rape don't remember it. And they're blood clots in their veins, a one heart attack. necessary to find out whether every day. How many are taken to good. They're paid to be good." common and sometimes fatal In the Massachlllsetts study, four aspirin will prevent clots after other court? Not many. Maybe six a According to Williams, new complication of hospital care, a new of 23 men receivilng aspirin deve-kinds of surgery and whether year, and half are found guilty.'' changes have been made in Indiana study shows. loped blood clots c:ompared with 14 increased doses will provide even Molnar encouraged victims to legislation concerning rapists. 
Among men who underwent hip of 25 men who took inactive, greater benefits. take down as many facts as · [continued on page t:i] 
surgery, those who took four substitute pills called placebos. All aspirin tablets a day had only a the men were ov~:r 40, and all had third as many cases of dislodged undergone surgery to have their blood clots floating through their hip joints replaced. veins, the study said. However, the study showed that 
Such clots, common among sur-the aspirin treatment work only for gery patients over 40, can be fatal if men. Among women, the risk they become lodged in the lungs. remained the same, whether or not About 47,000 people die from this they took aspirin. The doctors in the United States each year. could not explain this difference. 
"This is the ftrst rigorous, None of the patients who took scientific documentation that aspi-part in the study died from blood rin does provide protection against clots. Ordinarily, about half the the development of blood clots in a people who have hip surgery high-risk group of patients," Dr. develop clots, and Harris said the William H. Harris, who directed odds of death from this are about the study, said in an interview. one in SO. 
A report on the research con-Surgery patients are now some-ducted at Massachusetts General times given blood thinning agents Hospital, was published in Thurs-to prevent clots, Harris said, but day's issue of the New England this medicine can also slow heal-Journal of Medicine. ing. 
The Nation~JI Heart, Lung and This makes aspirin an important Blood Institute is conducting a new treatment, lile said. "If you study in SO institutions around the can get protection using an uncom­nation to see if aspirin can prevent plicated and relatively safe medi­
'Commuter' formed •1t SMC 
by Mary Monaco group include the problem of limited parking space at St. 

The off-campus and day students Mary's. Petitions have been of St. Marv's have recently formed circlated on both campuses in an a "commuter" group for the pur­attempt to assess student feelings pose of discussing and planning about the possibility of an expan­how thier needs can be more ded parking lot. efficiently met. Another project taken on by the 
The group believes that as a newly establishc!d group is the result of the substantial increase of investigation of the possibilities for commuter students at St. Mary's in improvement of the eating facilities recent years, the existing facilities available to commuter students. In .. for such students have become particular, a head count is being outdated. taken in MadeJ.eva Day Student The group's permanent meeting Lounge to discover how many time and place is Friday at noon in students actually make use of this Room 244 of Madeleva Hall. The area. The resllllts will indicate discussion sessions are open to all whether or not it is feasible to commuter students from Notre continue efforts leading toward the Dame and St. Mary's alike. installment of a microwave oven 
Long term issues taken on by the [Continued on pag_! 2] ~ 




Who are 

you, telling us how to run our business? 
It takes a lot of confidence to come fresh out of school and begin telling us how to do things. 
On the other hand, it takes an un­usual company to provide the kind of environment where that can happen. but that is exactly the environment you'll find at Scott Paper. 
We constantly search for people who have the ability to respond to chal­lenge and think for themselves, those with the initiative and desire to seek al­ternatives, the skill and courage to con­vince others that there are better ways and who aren't afraid to express their ideas. 
At Scott. we admire an aggressive stance because we are an aggressive company. You can make your own op­portunities with us ... and we'll prove it. 
Contact your placement office for information. 

SCOTr 
an equal opportunity employer, m/f
. 




lHANKSA 
Rob Civitello Kristen Quann Hugh Sullivan Lynn Savard Jim 0' Hara Karen Chiames Mike Schaffer 
Mike Hawes 
Steve Bonomo Pat McKillen Jim Hagen 
Bob Karl Bill Heywood Kate Smelser 

J.P. Russell The Kresses John Coyne Orest Deychakiwsky Ceil Popovich 
Jimmy· Bausano Joan Fremeau 
Pegt~Y Foran Jack Pizzolato Janelle Jersey Tom Byrne 
John Strauss 
Amy l'hornton 
Mike 1rhomas 


I
• 

Patty Dondanville Mark Huard Brian Flood Bill McSorley Russ O'Brien Tom Lux John Hagale 
Joe Kaczmarek 
Robin Lavender 
Phil Cackley " Mike Lewis Mary lden 
Dave Bender Maureen Carney Mary Siegel Bob Brink Marti Hogan Tracy Kee Martha Fanning John Rooney Nancy Budds Pete Haley 
Gary Luchini Kathy McElroy 
Barb Langhenry Sonny Schramm Chris McCabe Kevin Walsh Paul Stevenson 

Jean Benedett -Mary Thompson Mo Flynn Kathy Mills 
Joe Gill 

Paula Carroll John O'Connell · Mike Schlageter 
Colleen McGrath ' Kate Frynn 
Florencean S:t:ri:!:le===C=Iailrki;;Ciiair:=m;;icihiaiieii====='•B=o=s•s11m!llail:n===-~ 
,_....,~ ·-­
~­

·· Many thanks to all of the above for making it an interesting semester; and to those of you who helped, me keep my all too questionable sanity from evaporating, a special thank you. May the future hold for all of you happiness and a chance to fulfill your dreams. 
Bill Mclean

P.S. No list Ia perfect, so I apologize for any overslglrtll ­
..'."·'.· ..··' ~ 
"' 


Thursday, December 8,.1977 
4 
the observer 

Mass s.et to commemorate 'Human Rights Day' , 
by Bm Delaney 

In commemoration of the 29th anniversary of the U. N. Declara­tion of Human Rights, this Satur­day has been declared Interna­tional Human Rights Day. A mass, sponsored by the South Bend-Notre 
New Glee Club album released for .Christmas 
A Christmas album combining the favorite songs of past years with today's most popular has been assembled by Notre Dame's Glee Club. Professionally recorded at Chicago's Universal Corporation, "A-Caroling" is available at sev­eral campus locations at a special pre-Christmas price of $5. 
Proceeds from this latest Glee Oub album will be used by the Q0 member organization to finance ·a concert tour of major European cities at the close of the spqng semester. This will be the third overseas tour in five years. 
Dr. David lsele directs the group as they present such songs as "Carol of the Bells," '·'Boar's Head Carol," "Here We Come A Carol­ing," "The Sleigh," "We Wish You A Merry Christmas," "Carol of the Drums," "What Child Is This," "Lord's Prayer," and several others. 
SO YOU.RE GOIDG TO THE CO IIUD BOWL! 



WHO CARES? 
(Arlington does, that's who) 
Arlington ... a quick 25-minute driving time to the Cotton Bowl via turnpike. 
Arlington ... offering 2,709 guest rooms from a selection of 27 hotels/motels. Free parking at each facility. 
Arlington ... offering fun filled times before and after Cotton Bowl activities (which begin with a 9 AM parade in Dallas) with shopping malls, theatres, ice skating and nearby attractions. '­
Arlington ... inviting you to experience our many quality 
Dame chapter of Amnesty Interna­tional, will be celebrated in the Bulla Shed at 3 p.m. on Saturday, according to Jim Zorn, media relations director for ·the local chapter. 
Fr. Claude Pomerleau, a govern­ment professor and co-founder of the Notre Dame chapter, will 
Members of the all-male singing group will join other campus choral organizations at 3 p.m. and 8 p.m. this Sunday for an Advent Vesper concert in Sacred Heart Church. The 200 voice group will include Notre Dame's Chapel Choir, Cho­rale and University Chorus, several soloists and a chamber orchestra. 
The Glee Club has been acclaim­ed at concerts in all areas of the nation. They are presently plan­ning a tour beginning March 16 which will include performances in Huntington, Nashville, Jackson, Atlanta, Charlotte, Washington, D.C., Wilmington, Baltimore, Sharon, Pa., and Oeveland. Weekend concert dates have taken them to several Ohio and Wiscon­sin cities. 
The Christmas album may be ordered by writing the Glee Oub, Box 403, Notre Dame, or by calling their office in the Crowley Hall of Music at 283-6352. 
celebrate the mass for prisoners of conscience around the world, Zorn said. 
"There will be an informal social gathering afterwards for those interested in Amnesty Interna­tional and its work on behalf of prisoners of conscience: men and women imprisoned anywhere for their beliefs, race or religion," he added. 
Coinciding with Human Rights Day, "the Notre Dame-South Bend 

Mac's Record Rack·
chapter of Amnesty is launching an intensive letter writing campaign 
Rock, Jazz, Blues 
on the behalf of 300-400 prisoners of conscience in Paraguay," Zorn 
& Classical

continued. Their work will be part of an international program direct­ed at securing human rights in that Give the gift country. 
of music

"The · purpose of the letter campaign," Zorn said, "is to 
this year!

demonstrate to the Paraguayan government that human rights violations have drawn international FULL DISCO. attention and concern." The · phone 288-1178 petitions will begin to circulate next Next to River Park Theater 
SELECTION 

semester, he added. 2923 MishC!waka Ave. South Bend Another local Amnesty Interna-~~~~!!!~!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~~
tiona) program encourages stu-·• 
dents to write greeting cards to prisoners of conscience. "Dormi­tories have been asked to 'adopt' prisoners and to send as many cards as possible to the adopted prisoners," Zorn explained. "We have volunteers working in most of the dormitories," he said. 
In addition, a list of about 70 names and addresses of prisoners is available in the Office of Campus 

restaurants and night life. 
Arlington ... for the good times! 
Transportation to Cotton Bowl provided by Texas Motor Coach from Six Flags Mall. 
Buses depart for Cotton Bowl between 10:45 & 11 :30 A.M. $3.00 round trip per person. 
Ministry and in the office of the Dean of the College of Arts and Letters. 
Peter Benson, a London attor­ney, founded Amnesty Interna­tional in 1961. Since then, Zorn said, they have helped free more than 8,500 prisoners of conscience and have members in 70 countries. The organization won the 1977 
open Fri. & Sat. till 
# 
Midnight 
Pabst 
case 

Busch 
case 

Strohs 

case 

Falstaff s269 
12 pack (bottles) 

Blatz s269 
12 pack 12 pack
Old StyIebottles 
Strohs 16oz case 
$687 
Miscellaneous Cases of Beer 

$385 
2128 South Bend Ave. 
Nobel Peace Prize and now has consultative status with the United Nations. 
Pomerleau and Dr. Gilbert Loescher, assistant dean of the College of Arts and Letters, co­founded the Notre Dame-South Bend Chapter in March of 1977. The chapter now has about 120 active members. 
Rum$498 
qt 

ScotchS539 
qt 


Vodka$399 
qt 




Gin S4ta 
qt. 
"0 c I( d' LIQUOR ~0 R \.-Q 

Old Chicago 
$149 



6 packs 
'333
Mateus 5th 

Arlinaton Convention & Visitors Bureau 
Box A • Arlington, Texas 76010 •NC 817 265-7721 Call us for reservation information. 


Thursday, December 8, 1977 
the ctbserver 
s 




Med school statistics don't tell all 
by Patrick Cole Special Projects Editor 

EDITOR'S NOTE: This is the last story In a three-part series exam· lnlng the Notre Dame's preprofes­sional studies program. The last two stories illustrated how students prepare for medical school and what they think about the program. 
Today's story  wlll  discuss  the  
admissions  policies  of  medical  
schools.  

A first look at the statistics showing the number of students turned away from medical schools because of lack of space would cause most students to search for another career. 
Take Northwestern University Medical School, for example. There are about 170 slots available for an entering dass. A year ago•. 7,427 students applied to North­western, hoping to get in. But 7,257 were refused admission. For the 1975/76 first year class, 6,721 students applied for the 170 slots, so some 6,551 hopefuls were refused admission. 
Are there some overlooked explanations behind the statistics? It might be thought that several of the thousands of applicants might not be qualified for Northwestern Medical School's program. But according to Dr. Charles A. Berry, associate dean for admissions at Northwestern Medical School, nearly 3,000 of the 7,400 applicants 
to  the  school  had  either  4.0  
averages  or  3.5 averages  and  
above.  

However, the group of students from Notre Dame who applied to Northwestern won the battle of the stastics last spring. Of the 87 applicants from Notre Dame, Berry University led with 23, followed by said, .Northwestern accepted 15, Northwestern, 14; Indiana Univer­an extremely high proportion. sity, 13; University of lllinois, 12; And, said Berry, "No other school Loyola, 10 and · University of iti the local area had that good of a Chicago, with 8 Notre Dame accep­proportion of acceptances. We tances. accept about 10 percent to 15 The admissions board at the percent of undergraduates from Pritzker School of Medicine of the Northwestern. But we accepted 18 University of Chicago is particu­percent of the Notre Dame appli­larly impressed with the Notre cants." Dame applicants each year. Why? 
This example has an obvious "As far as Notre Dame students implication: the Notre Dame are concerned," said Dr. Josepth_ applicants' medical school applica­Ceithaml, dean of students at the tion is making a good impression in Pritzker School, "Walter Joseph the medical school admissions (Fr. Joseph L. Walter, chairman of office. Northwestern is not the only the preprofessional studies depart­
. school that accepted a high number ment) writes the recommendations of Notre Dame students. Of the 67 for the students. We value his medical schools which accepted a. recommendations very much." total of 218 Notre Dame students, Ceithaml indicated that the admis­most accepted only one to three sions board at Chicago is not students, The Observer reported concerned with what program of earlier in this series. However, study the student chose--whethe.r it several medical schools accepted was chemistry., science preprofes­large numbers: St. Louis (Mo.) [C'ontinued on page 9] 
~ 
Saint Mary's College , 
, • A Service of Lessons· and Carols. 
Sunday, Dec. 11, 197'7 8 pm 
Church of Lore1tto Admission Fre1e 

r----------------------·-----­
1 


FREE 
I 
I 

I I 12 oz. soft drink 
I I with any food pu~rchase
I I I 

I of 50' or more at the I
I 

I I 
I I I I 

I St. Mary's Snack Shop I 
I Good until 1212·r I 


'-----------------------------1 
TO MARY McCORMICK 
Badin Ha·ll Happy ·Birtlhday 
On this great feast day of Our Lady, 'Ale are prvud tt.ar you are celebrating your special day as a Senior in her university. We send you our love a111~ pray for your happiness. 
Mother and Dad 
(and some friends and relatives) 
Sparky Dennis Mickey Tim John ·. Aunt Jean Unde Pete Beth 
_ Grandma Bishop Bruce 
·Kevin Clare Rose Sr. Miuy Gertrude Father McGovem Joe Skunk No.2 Bill & Bud Chris Pat Uncle Archie Aunt Margie Marty 
~lmnlt ·Nft ·1 nan 
\ . 


~ 
*The Observer 
.1n independent student newspdper serving notrl" dame and ~.1. m.1ry's 
The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College It does not necessarily reflect the policies of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters are the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and letters are encouraged to promote the free expressioo of varying opinions on campus. 
E.DITORIAL BOARD 
' 
Mart1 Hogan Editor-in-Chief Martha Fanning Managing Editor Bob Bnnk Asst. Managing Ed. Kathy Mills Executive Editor Moureen Flynn Editorial Editor Barb Bre1tt>nstem Exec. News Editor J Pan Powlt>v St. Mary's Editor Katie Kerwm News Editor Barb Langhenry News Editor Paul Stt>venson Sports Editor Pat Cole Special Projects Ed. Tony Pace Features Editor 
Thursday, December 8, 1977 
DOONESBURY 

f 
I 
r 
P 0 

Credit due·: 
by Garry Trudeau 


Ombudsman! 
· Dear Editor: With the intent to give credit "where credit is due," I would sincerely like to thank Tom Lux, Robin Lavender, and the other dependable Ombudsman people for working with St. Mary's by riding the shuttle bus in mid­October to take the ridership survey. I regret that I had to approach them to "do the dirty work" in our combined effort and concern to retain the Shuttle Bus Service for the ND-SMC Community. The purpose of the survey was to provide supportive facts when presenting financially · feasible alternatives to the Administrations of the two schools should monetary subsistence be withdrawn. Harold Jara, Notre Dame's Co-Exchange Commissioner, and I agreed to run the survey for one week. St. Mary's students rode the bus for the 38.5 hours they had been 
1
assigned. However, the students working with Harold rode it only 4 
1 
hours out of the 23 to which they had consented. This obviously rendered all statistics useless with­out an overall pictu.re._ _!!t~!L!: 
!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! their turns, would ask upperclassmen who 
approached the Ombudsman who kindly and faithfully rode the shuttle the following weekend. Their trustworthy diligence is ap­preciated by all those who were concerned with retaining the shuttle. Indeed, we are all pleased with the recent decision by the Administrations to continue the Shuttle Bus Service in its present 
form  for  the  remainder  of  the  
current school year.  
Thanks  again  to  the  
Ombudsman!  

Mary Ann Fuchs St. Mary's Co-Exchange Commisloner 
Townies' are people, too 
Dear Edltof: 
In his review of the Cheech and Chong concert, Jon O'Sullivan makes the following remarks ­"Cheech and Chong played the crowd well Saturday night and gave them what they wanted. It seemed that the crowed consisted mostly of townies and high school kids who just came to party it up ..., and to laugh at a lot of crude humor. Actually only about 700 of the estimated 2400 there were ND­SMC students. It was sort of an audience that did not demand too 
$$$$Tickets$$$$ 
All of the student Cotton Bowl tickets, 

plus an additional 500 drawn from the 
alumni allocation, are sold and the sad 
truth is that not every student who wanted 
one has one. Approximately 100 juniors, 
graduate students and law students were 
still in line yesterday when the tickets sold 
out. They never even went on sale to the 
sophomores and freshmen. 
Several factors contributed to this 

unfortunate situation, the first of which 
was the inadequate number of tickets 
allotted the University and the student 
body. Perhaps too much confidence was 
placed in statistics and averages from 
previous years and not enough attention 
was given to the human factors involved. 
Certainly every student "knew" from the 
talk and feel of the campus that 1500 
tickets would not be enough. And despite 
the admittedly strong case made by the 
Ticket Office, based on its statistics, the 
"feel" of the campus proved a more 
accurate measure of need. 
Ticket Manager Mike Busick, confront­

ed with the premature sell-out, has stated 
that the ticket distribution policy will be 
studied and probably changed before 
Notre Dame participates in another bowl 
game. One obvious change is to ask for 
more tickets from the applicable bowl 
committee. Another is to allot a higher 
percentage of tickets to students. In fact, 
any student who wants a ticket for his or 
her personal use should be able to obtain 
one. H every such student were guaran­
teed a ticket, some of the other factors 
which contributed to the fiasco this year 
could be all but eliminated. 
Abuses of the ticket distribution system, 

imperfect though it may be, have only 
complicated the basic injustice of students 
not being able to watch their fellow 
students compete in an : intercollegiate 
athletic event. The 100 juniors who could 
not buy tickets yesterday were either unfortunate enough not to know seniors who would buy tickets for them or honest enough to take their chances on tickets still being available on their appointed day. Who knows how many sophomores and freshmen have tickets at the expense of these juniors, who will have only one more ·chance before they graduate to attend a Notre Dame bowl game? However many, it is exactly the number of seniors and other juniors who collaborated with them 
in defrauding their fellow students. 
It is understandable that lowerclassmen, 

anxious to go to a major bowl game and 
doubtful of obtaining tickets by waiting 
did not intend to go to buy them tickets. It is also understandable that unpperclass­men, in a fit of misguided generosity, would agree. This no doubt happened in a significant number of instances this year, unless we are to believe that 80 percent of the senior class is spending Jan. 2 in Dallas. 
But understandable or not, such abuses are not right and they are not fair to those students who abide by the guidelines or to those who set them up with the intention of being as fair as possible. There are 100 juniors who have cheered on the Fighting hish for two-and-a-half less-than-glorious seasons, who have never seen their team play in a major bowl game and who have earned the chance to see them now. There are probably at least 100 sophomores and freshmen who will go to the Cotton Bowl in their stead. 
Some of these disappointed students may resort to the third contributing factor in the ticket shortage--the scalpers. There is nothing that can be done to prevent scalping except to cut the demand for scalped tickets by making them available through the ticket office. No doubt, in that group of seniors and juniors who bought tickets that were not for their own use, were a number whose motives were not generous. These students, lured by the minimal $5 investment and the promise of great demand for their tickets, intended only to make a ''kill'' off of some student who might have been able to buy the ticket himself if it hadn't been _ snatched up by the predators. 
How many tickets are tied up by the scalpers, we don't know, but students should not encourage the trade by offering "$$$$" for their tickets. Perhaps any student who can prove an attempt at scalping should be awarded the scalper's ticket. 
The most effective solution to all of these aggravating factors is simply to allocate more tickets for student use. The demand will certainly fluctuate from year-to-year depending on the prestige of the bowl and the implications of the outcome of the game. The statistics don't hold all the answers. Students don't buy according to "percentage of tickets allocation to the University." And when it comes right down to it, the students deserve the first shot. 
Devine Intervention 
Head Football Coach Dan Devine deserves the special thanks of the student body for his efforts in promoting the Cotton Bowl charter flight. Without his concern and intervention, this service would not have been available to students. We agree with Student Union Director Tom Gryp's observation that "it shows a very keen interest in the welfare of the student body." 
much sophisticated humor.'' 
At best, these remarks are totally irrelevant; at worst they reflect an attitude held by a number (we hope not a majority) of students here. That is, we are somehow better, somehow more ''sophisticated'' than the people of the South Bend community, the so-called "town­ies". 
Where this-attitude comes from, God only knows, especially in light of some of the "refined", "intelli­gent", "sophisticated" things some of us do to amuse ourselves: littering the "unsophisticated" bar area with our "sophisticated" gar­bage; food fights; vandalism (the Knights of Columbus party inci­
' dent most recently) and disorderly conduct. Finally we failed to notice that there were 700 "sophisti­
' cated" ND-SM~ people not laugh­ing at Cheech and Chong's humor. If people like Mr. O'Sullivan think that they are better than the · "townies", that is their problem. However, they should keep their ignorant prejudice off the pages of The Obterver , and The Obaerver should use better discretiop in the articles they allow to be printed. It is !generalizations likethosethat Mr. O'Sullivan makes that increase the tensions between the students of · the Notre Dame-St. Mary's com-' 
munity and the people of the South Bend area. After all, aren't we all "townies" somewhere, too? 
P.S. By the way, Mr. O'Sulli­van, didn't we see you laughing, too? 
JohnTuskey 
Terrv Barrett 
Brent Beutter 
GaeyDonar 
Pre-meds are educated, too 
Dear Editor: 

I become most distressed when I constantly read and hear irrespon­sible statements to the effect that students in Preprofessional Studies have no opportunity to obtain a liberal education because they must make a total commitment to their preprofessional curriculum. Such statements usually come from people who are not in the program or have no connection with it. 
The facts are the following: At least 75 percent of pn 11rofessional students are in the concentrate tract, requiringthemto complete 58 credits in science. This allows these students to take at least 66 credits·in the humanities, of which .36 are university or college require­ments of theology, philosophy, language, English and social science. The particular fields of interest in the above five humani­ties areas are completely open to the student. This allows the student at least 30 credits of free electives to concentrate or broaden his or her horizons. Since students may take 17 credits each semester, this gives further opportunity to elect a total of 42 free electives. I would think that a student should become quite well-educated with a broad science background of 58 credits and a liberal arts back­ground of 78 credits, if such a high number of worthwhile humanities courses can be found, given the problems of our present pre-regis­tration system. 
If any student feels that his or her total program of preprofes­sional studies curtails the ability to become liberally educated, I invite that student to come into my office immediately and we wiii plan the schedule to incorporate all of those "excellent" courses he or she feels necessary to give a well-rounded liberal education. 
Rev. Joseph L. Walter, CSC 
Chairman 
Department of1 
Preprofess.lonal Studies 



-~-­
1 
j 
I 
1 

ND -SMC Theatre, a Review 
, Miles Coiner has done it again. Last rear it was They. This year -last weekend m fact -it was Bertolt Brecht's The Caucasian Chalk Circle. And it was verygood. 
The Caucasian Chalk Circle begins in Georgian, USSR, the year 1944. Goatherd­ers and orchard growers are disputing the use of post-World War II lands -the goatherders wish to simply leave them alo~e •. wh~e the ?rchard growers propose an tmgatton proJect that would increase fruit_production while virtually eliminating gr~mg land. The townspeople tentatively dectde that the irrigation project will be u_nd~rtaken, and to celebrate, they hire a smgmg storyteller to entertain them with a tale. The tale is that of the "Chalk Circle " an~ with the singer's entrance, the pla;'s major portion gets underway. 
The singer's tale begins on Easter Sunday in a mountain province named Gruzinia. On this Sunday, the Grand Duke of the town Nukah and his governors are overthrown, and in the process, a gover­nor's only child, an infant names Michael, is left behind by his selfish mother. Michael is then picked up and cared for by a peasant kitchen maid, Grusha, who must face great danger and suffering in the mountains to keep the baby safe from the murderous "lronshirts," soldiers of the government presently in power. At one point, Michael's safety demands that Grusha marry a stranger supposedly on his deathbed, the marriage breaking a promise she made earlier to marry a soldier-lover gone to war. At the war's end, the deathbed groom turns out to be a fraud and the old government returns to power. Soldiers suspicious of Michael's true identity take the baby away. It is then left for Azdak the judge to determine the true mother of the child. 
Azdak, a derelict wino and intellectual elected to his judgeship as a joke, runs a court that is a howling circus of justice. Turning the law upside down and inside out, Azdak comically helps the poor of the town while blatantly screwing the rich. It is in this law-deflated court of justice that the rightful mother and rightful heir to the governor's vast estate is to be decided. The trial that results, a farcical affair that utilizes the test of the chalk circle, concludes the tale. 
·Brecht's unique uiew of what theatre should be... 
Brecht completed the Chalk Circle in 1944 while he was living in Santa Monica, California. Young Eric Bentley of the University of Minnesota made the pilgrim­age to California and obtained the rights to translate both the Chalk Circle and The Good Person of Setsuan.. The world premier of the Chalk Circle was at Carleton College in Northfield, Minnesota in 1948. It was not performed in German until Brecht himself directed it with his own Berliner Ensemble in 1954. Brecht reworked the script for this production and then worked a six-month rehearsal sched­ule. The Berliner Theatre run was extremely well-received and critically ac­
_claimed. Upon its conclusion, Brecht took 
the company into another six-month re­
hearsal schedule in preparation for a 
Paris-London tour. Although he died 
midway through rehearsals, the company 
finished up, did the tour, and dealt the 
European art world a blow whose aesthetic 
impact they have yet to recover from. 
Many important artists, including film 
director Jean-Luc Godard and writer 
Roland Barthes, became devout Brechtians 
as a result of the Berliner Ensemble tour. 
What so astonished the world of art was Brecth's unique view of what theatre should be. Brecht disdained the conven­tions of traditional Aristotelian theatre, claiming they served only to hypnotize audiences into an empathetic, unquestion­ing state of acceptance. Audiences were inhibited in their ability to critically analyze the messag~ propagated by the play. 
Brecht felt that theatre should· allow the audience to maintain a critical distance from which they could make thoughtful decisions -in The Caucasian Chalk Circle, his methods r·eflect this feeling. Brecht's singer is crucial to this purpose, constantly reminding the audience that what takes place on stage' is merely fiction -unreal and not necessarily true, just one man's arbitrary creation. The destruction of time continuum and the use of countless scenes and shifts of focus not only call attention to theatre's fictitious nature, but demand the total critical attention of the audience. By exhaustively revealing its own theatrical workings, Brt~cht's theatre begs the audi­ence to question and evaluate the artist's message instead of passively 'accepting it ­as gospel truth. 
BERTOLT BRECHTS 
THE CAUCASIAN CHALK CIR~LE ~~}'\) .. <JV~-i!~f~ ~.;y
qj~~v~~;....~~'o
·v . ..,~ 
O~o~ 
~NO SN~C 
THEATRE 

1----·-------------------------------! 
In the ND-SMC Theatre production of Brecht, Lisa Colaluca adds yet another fine job to her growing list of credits. Her poignant portrayal of the innocent kitchen maid Gruslila punctuates the struggle of the lower class against the abrasive aristo­crats. From her impassioned courtroom outbursts to her tender baptism of Michael in the glacial waters, Lisa weaves an intricate web of emotion -frantic and desperate, the warm and caring, and unwaveringly innocent. Lisa's perform­ance fully embraces the incorruptible nature of the character. 
Another ND-SMC Theatre veteran, John Walker, turns in a nearly flawless perform­ance in several roles. The versatile character actor virtually steals the wedding scene with his rendering of the obnqxious,, drunken monk. And Walker as Shauva, Azdak's Sancho Panza, is appropriately deadpan to the judge's deranged zeal for justice. 
Sean "Susie" Coleman and Ray McGrath a.re hilarious as the Mutt-and-Jeff pair of th(: sadistic, lecherous corporal and his timid subordinate. Coleman is also impressiv·e in roles as the doctor and the Old Duke,, while McGrath delighted the 
' 

audience with his drunken song about sexual preference and a candle. 
Michele Roberge is excellent as the incredibly evil and pompous Natella, the governor's wife (who gets my vote for Bitch-of-the-Year). Brooke Whaling does a fine job in a number of roles, especially that ofthe old lady pleading "miracles" for larceny in Azdak's carnival court. New, comer Tony Mockus, as Simon, Grusha's disappointed lover, is more than credible. Pam Guy is very good as the Christian wife Aniko, whose religious convictions often hinder her ostensible desire to be charita­ble, and as Ludovika, the seductive farm girl with the irresistible left breast. Other bright moments are provided by Candyce Thompson, John Connolly, and the young­sters -Tania Coi,ner, Jennifer Hawfield, 
David Vacca; and Damien Geoffrion as Michael. 
But the show-stopper is without a doubt the amazing Azdak, played by Matt McKenzie. "It's the best role I've ever read," said McKenzie, and certainly it is the best he has ever played, surpassing even his stellar performances as John Proctor in The Crucible and as Tefuon in They. So much of McKenzie's perform­ance is memorable: when he expounds on theory of law -''The law is a delicate organ much like the spleen -puncture it, and death sets in . . . The law must be administered with much gravity -because it's so stupid." When he denounces the policeman Shauva, who has come to arrest him for rabbit-stealing: "I steal rabbits! •. . You catch men! ... You are a canniball God will punish you! GO HOME AND REPENT!'' And when he vehemently insists, "I do not have a good ·ear-how many times do I have to tell you -I'm an lnteUectwdl" McKenzie's delivery and stage presence bring to the character an air of brash vulgarity that keeps Azdak from becoming the traditional Aristotelian hero. He is Gruzinia's answer to Groucho Marx. 
Scenographer David Weber's set is as 
• 
by brian gruely 
interesting as it is effective. The static horizontals of the background counterpoint the dynamic angles of the skeletal struc­ture. The structure reminds one (in Brechtian fashion) of the fact that the action is fictional -a story that is told in a war-torn Russian village. The actors enter underneath the singer as if the action was in the singer's mind. Inventive embellish­ments including a rope bridge and "hang­ing judge" add to the Brechtian atmos­phere. The rolling platforms make the set changes a bit cumbersome and at times they seem forced into use, but they help complete the total Brechtian picture of various levels. 
The lighting is simple and direct. McCandless 45-degree key lights and primary frontal color washes, along with sharp area definition, continue in the Brechtian style by removing the subtlety of illusion. The quick shifts of light from the action to the singer and back again help the audience keep their critical distance by snapping them out of the semi-hypnosis of the scene. Perhaps some back lighting would have given the actors the separation from the background they needed, but the non-gelled key light punched up the costumes sufficiently to make separation a minor problem. 
The costumes designed by Diana Haw­field are imaginative and provocative. From the swashbuckling sash of the obscene Azdak to the gaudy gown of the self-indulgent Natella, Hawfield once a­gain displays her knack of designing costumes that precisely fit each character's personality. An interesting trick is the way in which the characters are masked. The nobles wear full masks, the landowners wear half-masks, and the commoners wear no masks at all to point up the fictional nature of the story and to drive home Brecht's contention still another time. 
Though the Chalk Circle is essentially a drama, it does contain a number of songs. Brecht originally composed the score, but, this being impossible to attain, director Coiner called on the talented Steve Rodgers to compose and arrange the music himself. Joan Martel's rich soprano lends much to the execution of Rodgers' compo­sitions as well as to the role of the singer. Lisa Colaluca also does a commendable job singing, while McKenzie and Walker's hapless vocal renditions are appropriately comical. 
If there are faults to The Caucasian Chalk Circle, they are its length and tedium. The play well exceeds two hours, and many scenes require a quick and steady comprehension to keep up with the rhetoric, especially that of the clever Azdak. But then, this keeps the watcher's mind working, and the Brechtian theatre concept surely demands that. With The Caucasian Chalk Circle, off-the-wall direc­tor Miles Coiner demonstrates once again his ability to make a complex production accessible to the college audience, much as he did last year with Stanislav Witkiewicz' They. I must say that I left the play perplexed in one sense, clearheaded in another. I was quite certain of the message the play tried to evoke -this is to be expected with Brecht. But I was somewhat 
, confused as to the workings in and around the message, particularly those of the captivating (sorry, Bertolt), though rhetor­
' ically elusive Azdak. Again, the fact that I 
was perplexed evidences Brecht's concern for critical distance and the necessity for critical evaluation on the part of the audience. On the whole, the play was very satisfying, and I highly recommend it. However, there is one thing that still bothers me -what about the poor goats who won't have anyplace to graze? Brecht obviously has no goat-~ompassion, and one begins to wonder. But then-ah, yes-this is only theatre of course, fiction at that, and totally unreal. I guess I can take consolation in that these Brechtian goats in their Brechtian hunger are really not starving at all. 
Chalk Circle Continues 


-




to Heineken Hifi yet, here's your chance to find a whole new way to buy hifi gear. Discover our low prices, top-rated brands, full service and helpful sales staff. Come in, relax, play the components & listen to your favorite music. 
World-Famous TDK Super Avllyn SA-C 90 Cassette 
Tape Special 
Offer This Week! 
Stock up now for all your recorctng needs Clua'ltities are limited, so hurry. 
Speakers By Pioneer, Cabinet By Sonic! Model 489E features a powerful 10" woofer. enclosed midrange and wide range tweeter, all from Pioneer, the wor1d's largest speaker manufacturer. Super 3·way value' 
The Cartridge Choice Of The Professionals, Now Available 
To You! Improve your stereo system's sound and$ take better care of your 
2 9 9 5 
records with the 600E rna netic · 

The Perfect Gift For Your Family! 
Complete Comp~nent Stereo System You Don:t Pay For 'till '78 Sherwood "Certified Performance" 5-7025 
AM/FM Receiver. Rated at 1 2 watts/channel RMS into 8 ohms from 40-20Khz at less than 0.8% THO. but typicaly rates 1 0 to 30% better. Garrard GT·10 Beltdrive Turntable, Complete! New single or automatic turntable with base, dust cover, cartridge and 3 year factory wcvranty. Speakers By Pioneer, Cabinet By Sonic! Great sounding two way bookshelf speakers, idealy matched to the &7025. W/speaker cord. 
$298 
19.66 
per month 

No money down, only $19.66 per month for 18 months. Annual percentage rate 21 .60. Total deferred payment price $353.88. Includes 4% state tax. Fina-~cing based on approved cred~. Ask for more details. 
Complete Dlscleaner Record Cleaning Kit With Special Brush And Cleaning Fluid! 
'995 

NEW! Tower Speakers, AAL's "Apollo" At A Special Price! 
$149... 
The towers include a double woofer sys­tem and extra wide range tweeters for room-filling sound. 


ct:~:e $119ea. 
Burhoe Green. The latest speaker design from Winslow Burhoe, the creator of the best-buy EPI 100, and other speakers by KLH and AR. Pure, open musical sound. 
Synergistics 5-22A. Now. a high accuracy high efficiency speaker is available that doesn't alter the music The S-22A handles lots of power to reproduce the impact of a live performance. f 
Sale prices good lhru Sunday. Dec 1 1 . 1 9 7 7 
MoreWaHs\ ForLess : Dollars! 
Sherwood "Certified Per-SHERWOOD formance" 5-7225 Receiver. 
With over 30 watts 
per $219 channel RMS, super quiet FM tuner. 
New From Technics! Separate Components At Low Receiver Prices! More Power And More Features! 
Dolby Cas-SankyoD sette Deck! Sankyo STO· $209 
1900 has extended re­ponse, professional features. 

Best-selling Akai CS.70~D !lm Frontload Dolby Deck! Wrth low 0.08% wow & flutter. 
$149

and wide response. 
Now You Can AHord A 
'Ne SOU1CI belt&
···---··•...

Marantz! Model 2220B. With 
3-zone tone control, Gyro 
Touch tuning and over 20 
$188 

watts RMS per channel. 
Technics ST-7300 Tuner. With two tuning meters. test signal generator for level settings. Hand­some simulated wood cabinet. 
Technics SU-7300 Amplifier. With 4 1 watts RMS per channel at an inaudible .08% THO. With large power output meters. high filter. 
Technics SL-23 Beltdrive With Stanton Cartridge. With shock resistant base. dust cover and Stanton 600EE cartridge. Features strobe and speed fine tuning. 
B.I.C. 920 Beltdrive With Cartridge! Single or multiplay automatic with base, magnetic catridge, cuei1g &mti-skatilg. 
While They Last! Garrard 
Thchnics 
$129 
QOC9
sea 
p 

GT-55. With base, cover and "'1~ zero-tracking error tonearm: $139 
Servo-controlled belt drive motor for constant speed. 

.I '· 

-
lT_~u~yL o~~m~~-197-=-7_____tuh..a.JeiiL..llol&lb_s3
&~rvLe~r__~9 

Interviews com.plete process for applicants 
[Continued from page 5] have evidence of his mind--his sional or biology concentrate. "It intellectual abilities--his integrity, doesn't matter what the student breadth of courses, motivation, majored in," Ceithaml said, "Just interest in people and in human­so the student does well in his ity·" program of study and has good Likewise at Harvard, there is not recommendations. There is no real cutoff for minimum grade point preference made by us. We average or for Medical College consider each applicant on his or Admissions Test (MCAT) scores. her own merits." The average mean grade point 
Vicki Anderson, assistant direc-average at Harvard is between 3.5 tor of admissions at Indiana Uni-to 4.0, according to P'ual. How­versity Medical School in Indiana-ever, may students fall below this polis, 'expressed similar feelings standard, he said. 
about the program of study that a The Interview: the linalstepstudent chooses. "We don't stress a preference," she said. "We are Most medical schools require looking for well-rounded people interviews before selecting appli­and those who communicate well. cants for admission. In fact, when Berry, associate dean of admis-a student gets called for an sions at Northwestern, also agreed interview, he or she receives an about the major. "I don't think it indication that they are still in the matter what the student chooses competition for places in an enter­for a major in the case of Notre ing class. But some schools do not Dame," he said. "I think the require interviews such as lllinois program (at Notre Dame) works University Medical :Shcool and well. About colleges in general, Creighton Universi1y Medical good undergraduate breadth in the School in Omaha. humanities is important." Mark Mitros, a se111ior science Is there one quality that will preprofessional major !from B!.;om­immediately impress an admis-field Hills, MT, applied to Creigh­sions board? Probably not, at most ton Medical School and said that he medical shcools. Even at Harvard will not know of his acceptance Medical School. "There isn't one, until he receives a Iett•er indicating single important quality a student the admissin committee's decision. should have," said Paul Oglesby, "I would prefer an interview," director of admissions at Harvard. Mitros said. "It would give me a -.~~i;!li-wPe have_to....,.=iiiiiii~.Pto see the school. And 
Get snowed in and plowed c,ut!! 
Junior Class Happy Hlour at the Library Dec. 9 3-6 pm 
25~ beers Drinks Y2 ~trice Jr. class t shirts will be sold 
Sat., Dec. 10 
9pm-? 

Unitarian Church Howard and US 31 
being there in person gives them an opportunity to know about my personality.'' 
And it is for this reason and others that medical schools call in hundreds of applicants--those who have survived initial screening--to make the final evaluation. 
At Indiana University Medical School, 800 to 900 of the 2,000 applicants are interviewed by the admissions committee. "We go through the student's back­ground,'' said Anderson, the assis­tant director of admissions. "It's a chance to turn all their paper work into a human being." At Indiana University, there are 30 people on the admissions committee. After the applicant is interviewed and all information is evaluated by the committee, a majority, or 15 votes is necessary for the applicant to be accepted. 
Although there is not cutoff for grade point averages, Anderson said that for Indiana resdidents a 
3.2 average is most desirable for a good chance of acceptance while 
3.65 is usually standard for out of state residents who apply to the school. 
Loyola University Medical School in Chicago, which offers a three­year M.D'. program, interviews about 400 persons and 220 of them are accepted for admission, accord­ing to Judy Root, director of admissions at Loyola. "We lean heavily on the Early Decision Plan," she added. "About one­third are accepted under this plan. We get close to 100 applications for early decision. We interview about 70 applicants and accept 55 for the classes entering in 1978." 
Root noted that for the entering class of 1977,. nine Notre Dame 
Ratification considered 
[continued from page 1] voting on any further amendments to the proposal. "This meeting," stated McLean, "will continue with the policies presently being fol­lowed. The HPC will speak first, and then other interested parties may add their proposals." "Assuming there are no major problems," said McLean, "a vote will be taken after the proposal is finalized to take the proposal to the hall councils for ratification in 
; anuary." Members of the ad hoc committee will then be available to the hall councils to explain the 
proposal. 
According to Byrne, "the com­mittee's current proposal is a substantial improvement over the present Constitution, but it is sure to be changed some more before final ratification." Further amend­ment proposals can only be insti­tuted by members of the ad hoc committee or the HPC. Forty copies of any such amendment must be submitted. 
When the final Constitution is submitted for ratification in Janu­ary, a two-thirds vote of approval is needed from the hall councils. 
~ students were accepted under the 1applicant's values. "We try not to· Early Decision Plan. ' get into those areas to prevent a , Root said that interviews for clash of values between an inter­applicants last about an hour. viewer and a student,'' said Direc-Students will see two members of . tor of Admissions Berry. "We the admissions committee. To _hope a student has developed survive the initial screening pro­moral convictions." cess, the students must have above Therefore, interviews are the a 2.5 average on a 4.0 scale and turning point for medical school 
· above a 5 on the MCAT. "We look applicants waiting to be accepted. 
1 at the students motivation, first," Students make an effort to prepare 
· Root said. ''A lot of weight is place for the interview through advice · on maturity. We look at life given by Walter or through their problem solving ability and discuss own preparations. James (a issues and ethics in medicine pseudonym), a senior biology today." major on campus, has an interview with Harvard Medical School this
Root added that a lot of emphasis 
week. He revealed how he will
is placed on the interview. Several 
prepare for the interview: "I try to 
students call up asking why they 
refresh myself on what I wrote in
were not accepted, she said. Out of , 
my autobiography to the school,"
lllinois residnets, about 75 _percent 
he said. "I try to get enough rest
call, inquiring about their rejection. 
the night before the test so I can
"We only use three areas of the 
answer questions the interviewer
MCAT: science problems, reading 
will ask about socialized medicine,
and quantitative skills," she said. 
· medical insura.nce and medical
''Some schools use all six areas. 
; ethics properly. You're trying to
The MCAT is a soft factor in our 
present your best side. If your're a
admissions process." 

marginal applicant, you can
At Northwestern, the admissions 
[Continued on page 10]

committee refuses to look at an 

::=:::::----­

MEN'S 
HAIR 
STYLING By Jft't. .L!Cllt'lg 
We are pleased to announce Mr. Larry has joined the staff of The Knights. Expertly ned in men's hair 
styling, he invites all 
friends & customers to 
.visithtm. 

$ 

100 
. OFF 
ANY SERVICE 
(WITH THIS AD) WITH MR. LARRY ONLY 
Tb ICKigfd'o 
54533 Terrace Lane 
272-8471 or 
Lower level Tues. & Wed. 
277-1691 

Thurs. & Fri. 
Sat. 
All Observerites , invited 
bring friends. 
Van will be available for tran~portation running from the ND circle _8~45 and 9:45 P.m , 
.Donations ~of '1 payable ·at the door. 
P.S. TV will be available for those avid B-ball fans
Refreshments 
'. 
E 

Thursday, December 8, 1977
10 the observer 
Cuban involvement questioiJed 
[continued from page 1) operation in Cuba.' 'The reference was to Cuban chief of state Fidel Castro. The FBI is restricted to domestic operations, and the CIA gathers intelligence abroad. It was not clear whether Hoover meant to imply that the CIA, as well as the FBI maintained liason with the CIA although Hoover later severed the relationship. The memo was Hoover's report of his discussion that day with Les Rankin, the Warren Commission's general counsel, who had called to make arrangements for dealing with the FBI during the commis-
ND students successful in Med school interviews 
[Continued from page 9) increase your cnances by having a good interview." 
Can a student be rejected on the basis of his interview although he or she has a high grade point average and a high MCAT score? "Absolutely," said Ceithaml of the University of Chicago. "A student can be rejected on the basis of his interview. It's an intergral part of the applic_ation procedure (at Chicago). We want to talk to the student and to expand on his application." 
And for Harvard Medical School, James is among 33 percent of the 3,700 applicants who was called in for an interview. "Genrally the ones we interview are the ones who are being considered for possible medicine, minority admissions-­they were looking for my opi­nions." 
Kathy Strah, a senior preprofes­sional major, said that all inter­viewers "ask about your motiva­tion." And, she added, "If the student can express himself. That's something the autobio­graphy does not do. In one interview I was asked how I would help someone adjust to a misfor­tune such as a lost limb." 
However difficult and complex the process may be, Notre Dame applicants to medical schools appear to have success in their interviews. Said Director of Admissions Root of Loyola Medical School: "The Notre Dame appli­cants have done traditionally well 
admission," Paul said. "There I in the interview here." 
may be some exceptions. Some-1 
times we call a student in for an 
interview to get additional informa-l tion." Harvard conducts inter­
views in Boston at the medical school, and it conducts regional interviews in major metropolitan cities across the country. "We 
don't have a structured interview," 
Paul revealed. "The average interviw lasts 45 minutes. Regional I interviews are conducted by admis­sions committee members and local i alumni. So it's a joint effort by graduates and our staff. 
At Harvard there are 12 people onthe main admissions committee and 55 members comprising the subcommittee. The student is selected by the main committee on the recommendations of the sub­commtttee. 
And what goes on between the interviewer and the applicant? "The first interview I had with a medical s~hool was on issues," Debbie Darnley told, a senior biology concentrate major. "They asked about abortion, socialized
r.._............_.....~-........~..................\ 
\ EVERY WED AND. ~ 
\ THURS NIGHT \ 
~ ~ 40 oz beer \ i 
~ ~ lor $1 oo ~ ~ 
~ ~ \ ~ 
l At LOUIESt 
L ......._...~............_....~ ....................,.........i 
need posters in a hurry? 
• 
I •
•nsty-pr1nls 
the wiz of the printing biz! 
100 -11 x 17 posters 
only $10.00 203 n. main Downtown SoBend 289-6977 
sion probe. The Warren Commis­of the assassination had spread sion later concluded that Oswald worldwide suggests that it might was the Assassin and that he acted have been the work of a headliner­alone. seeker. 
Because of the letters to Oswald from Cuba and the difficulty in checking their validity, Hoover said, "I urged strongly that we not reach the conclusion Oswald was the only man." 
One of the Cuban letters illus­trates the problem. It was written in Spanish and mailed from Havana to Oswald in Dallas. It was dated 12 days before the assassination, but postmarked six days after Kennedy was killed. The fact that it was postmarked long after news 
~-.:.:;,,;__..__________
DOWN FILLED OUTERWEAR 
Prime Northern down Parka's Wl.th storm 
hood $49.95. 

100's available Vests s29.00 Mountain cloth, taffeta, ripstop 
Gretas down products 
On the same day he wrote of his conspiracy questions, Hoover told the :State Department and the CIA he considered the letter an appa­rent hoax. But he asked those agencies to pass along any informa­tion they might gather about it. 
The letter, as translated by FBI agents, referred to Oswald as "Friend Lee" and said: "After the affair, I am going to recommend much to the chief .. .I told him you could put out a candle at SO meters ... Leave nothing that could lead to your trail and when you receive my letters, destroy them as always. 
•'After the affair, I will send you the money and we will see each other in Miami as always.': It was signed Pedro Charles. 
Hoover reported that another letter mailed from Havana and addressed to Robert Kennedv 
Mass to be held for Grads 
All Notre Dame and St. Mary's students graduating this month are invited to attend a mass and dinner in their honor this Friday. 
Fr. Robert Griffen, the Univer­sity Chaplin, will be the celebrant of the mass in Keenan Hall at 5:10 
p.m. A social hour will be held in the University Club at 6:30 p.m. followed by a dinner at 7:30p.m.
":""-=:"::-------""' 


3 Days only Dec. 9 10 11 
Fri. 9-9, Sat.9-9 Sun. 11-5 
Four Flag Hotel 404 East Main St Niles, Michigan 

.' ~ S_COTTS.DALE __ ~RIVER PARK 

1 

"alleged that Lee Harvey Osw~ld assassinated President Kennedy at the direction of Pedro CHarles, a Cuban agent." The letter bore the signature of Mario del Rosario Molina. 
FBI analysts determined that both letters were prepared on the same typewriter, signed with the same kind of pen and ink, and mailed in the similar envelopes. Because of those circumstances, "it appears this matter represents an attempted hoax," Hoover 
wrote. 

He asked the department and the CIA "to promptly advise this bureau in the event any informa­tion is received" about Molina. 
However, other documents show that Hoover also was concerned about a speech by Castro vowing retaliation against American lead­ers if they continued to plot his own assassination. That speech came before Kennedy visited Dallas. 
Testimonial banquet to honor football squad . 
The 58th annual testimonial ban­quet honoring the 1977 Notre Dame football squad and coaches will be held tonight in the main arena of the Athletic and Convocation Cen­ter. 
A reception will begin at 5:30 
p.m. with dinner commencing at 
7:00 p.m. Toastmaster for the evening's activites will be Chicago White Sox announcer and sports personality, Harry Caray. 
Tickets are $15 each and reser­vations may be made by contacting Stephen Pajakowski at 233-8261. 
Senior members of the football squad along with Coach Dan De­vine and his assistant coaches will be present at the 5:30 p.m. 

O'LaughlinA di orium, 
reception. Followmg the oanquet players and coaches will be avail­able for autographs. 
The banquet, as in past years, is sponsored by the Notre Dame Club of St. Joseph Valley. 
Cleveland Club sign-ups 
Sign-ups for the Cleveland Club bus for the Christmas holidays will be held today from 6:30 to 7:36 
p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom and from 7:00 to 7:30 p.m. in the lobby of LeMans Hall at St. Mary's. 
THE CAUCASIAN CHALK CIRCLE 
Brecht's Parable of justim and true belonging 
Decerrber 2,3,8,9, 10 
ats:OO p.m. 
All seats $2.50 
{$2 Std-Fac-Staff) 
Alone:284­

CLAUSTROPHOBIC? 
call 

Campus View Apartments 
today for 2nd semester 1&2 bedrooms available plus roommate replacements 
As low as s85 per person (util. incl.) Call Gayle at 272-1441 Happy Holidays! 
~TOWN &COUNTRY 1&2 
I. 

977
Outstanding St. Mary's students'~·;::rsda::_:y,D=ecem=ber~B,1~~~~!!!!b;11 
nominated to Who's Who 
The 1977-78 edition of Who's Who Among Students in American Universities and CoUeges will carry the names of 35 students from Saint Mary's who have been selec­tt!d as being among the country's 111ost outstanding campus leaders. 
Campus nominating committees and editors of the annual directory have included the names of these students based on their academic achievements, service to the 
community, leadership  in  extra­ 
curricular  activities  and  future  
potential.  

They join a group of students selected from more than 1,000 institutions of higher learning in all SO states, the District of Columbia, and several foreign nations. The annual directory was first pub­lished in 1934. 
Students named this year from Saint Mary's are: Jo Ann Baggiaro, Valerie Ann Ball, Victoria Marie Ball, 
Save those /D's 
St. Mary's students will not 

receive new ID cards for the second semester. Instead, the current ID 
will have a stamp placed on it which will designate "Spring, 1978". 
Students are asked to keep their current ID card which will be stamped during the registration process in January. 
.NOTICE:WILLIAM M. MCLEAN. FOR­
I MER OMBUDSMAN, BELOVED 
ISCOURGE OF THE OBSERVER, AND 
~~~~~~~rL~~~~1~v~FH~HD~P~~Jl 
WITH ALL DUE HONOR AND REJOIC· liNG THIS JANUARY-unless he fools us Iall and flunks again.
1-----------------­INeat accurate typing of term papers,
1manuscripts. Call 287p5162. 
I NEED QUALITY TYPING? Executary, line. Professional Typing Service IBM I Correcting Selectrics. $.85 per page I minimum. Call 232-0898 "When you w_a_nt__th_e_be_st_"___________
l 
I EXPERIENCED TYPIST. For more infor­
lmation call 272-2819.
1------------------­
1 MORRISSEY LOAN FUND 
Student loans. $20-150. 1 day wait. 1 
percent interest. Due in 30 days. La For· 
Itune Basement. M-F 11:15-12:15. Last 
I•day for loans this semester: Dec. 14. 
·---------------­
IRUGBY CLUB team picture for yearbook 
to be taken at Corby's Friday Dec. 9, at 3 
I p.m. Be there by 1 p.m. so we can look 
lour best. 
·---------------­
IAre you in the Christmas spirit yet? If 
Inot, the Notre Dame-St. Mary's Council 
for the Retarded's Christmas Party will
1surely get you in the Christmas mood. 
IThe celebration starts at 9:00 a.m. and 
1goes till 11:30 a.m. which includes 
decorating the Christmas Tree, dancing 
the Reindeer Shuffle (yes, Santa's rein· 
I deer can dance), and a guest appear­
•
lance by Santa himself with lots of toys for1the kids. Join in the festivities this I Saturday, Dec. 10, 1977 at Logan Center, I just one block south of the football stadium. If you have any questions, I comments, suggestions, or ideas feel freeIto call Jeanne Conboy 284-4391 or Art 1Koebel 287-7509. P.S. There will be a 1Christmas Wrapping Party, Friday, Dec. 19th at 7:30p.m. till midnight at Art's (718 
E. Corby Blvd.). Come and help wrapIpresents and make cookies! 
I
1Milton got only five pounds for theIcopyright to PARADISE LOST. The book Ipublishing group will do better than that for Its author. E. Christman, 6142,
I 
Library.
1------------­
~ WANTED 
12 riders to & from LA. lv. 12-18 Call Abe 287-4828.
1 
a---------------
INeed riders to Ft. Lauderdale area, 
1 1eaving~~~m 13~:_______ 
IFemale student looking for apartment or Ihouse near campus to share for second 
l~mest~!~~~~~~:_____
t 
Help! NO guy must learn ballroom dance.I John 138. 

I That's 1380, folks. 
~----------------·­
I~~:~ ~~~Jlal~~~J~X~~~d~~~ 
I 232-Q453. 
·--------------·---­I Need up to 3 people to sublet ND Avenue for second semester. Call Beth 1 
Amanda Fairey Bell, Elizabeth Bistrick, Margaret Anne Brittan, Terease Young Chin, Mary Ann Coleman, Jeanne Marie Conboy, 
Christmas party at Stepan (';enter 
The Student Union Social Com­mission and Notre Dame women's dorms are sponsoring a free christmas party at Stf!pan Center this Friday from 9 until 1 p.m. Music will be provided by "Night­flight" and refreshments will be served. Santa Claus will also make a guest appearance. For more information, call Nancy Budds at 1675. 
Madeline Rose Couture, Connie Suzanne DePyper, Lisa Sue Dono­van, Judith Ann Eckelkamp 
Kathleen Mary Friday, Mary , Esther Hall, Denise Park Hogan, Martha Jane Hogan, Julie Virginia 
Judd,  Debra  Kathryn  Ludwig,  
Nancy  Robin  Mogab,  Susannah  
Marie  Nelson,  Gretchen  Anne  

Obringer, Laura Ann O'Dell, Maryann O'Neil, 
Colette Marguerite Pawlak, Julie Rouzan Pellettiere, Cheryl Nadine Pesdan, Maria Elena Raaf, Elena Marie Rossi, Mary Martha Ruka­vina, Maureen O'Neil Sajbel, Patricia Anne Schmitz, Diane Marie Smits, Mary Ann Stolze, Mary Leigh Tunakan. 
Rape pr1evention talk held 
[Continued from pagt' 3] Criminals previously received a blanket sentence cove:ring all their crimes, "but now a separate sen­tence is given for e:ach crime. 
Sente,nces are also more specific, according to William!>. He noted that ,·n I d" h "t I
n lana, w ere cap! a

punishment 1"s ,·n ef•ect a r
'' • ape

resulting in murder can bring the criminal the death pe·nalty
. · 

Following the talks, the movie "How to Say No to a Hapist...and Survive," was shown.. The movi<; was a filmed lecture: by Fredric Storaska, an active spokesman against rape who demonstrated various techniques to thwart a rapist. A question and answer session concluded the presenta­tion. 
The main theme of the program was summed up by Williams with the words, "A crime against your person is a crime against society. I 
think you all have an obligation to protect the next woman." 
The program, the first part of St. Mary's Rape Awareness and Pre­vention Effort (RAPE) will continue next semester. 
r-----N~;;;----~-.,.~=:~~~~~~o:·~;,-;;sa~,---c--,------~-,. 
Need roommate to share .apartment at 
Crestwood second semester (2 miles from 
~~~~u;~dc~~d~ii~~~-at 2ss-·1259 between 
·---------------~­
One HOCKEY FANATIC able to attend alj home games. Earn $$$ between periods at the Blue Line Clull. 234·6519. 
;;;dtj;-;t;f;uCLA~c-;J~:ii~87ci8.­
Big money paid for two student basket­ball tickets. 277-3604. 
Two females want housemate. Available anytime now through next semester. Own room, good neighborhood. 289-3453. 
Need ride to Des Moines area after 10 
p.m. Dec. 20th. Call Nancy 4375. 
Julio'S has opening for delivery personnel either Sat. or Sun. or both days available From 5p.m. to 2a.m. Must have own car. Guaranteed $3 per hour plus tips. Call 233-2354. 
Needed: Riders heading west (N.M) after 
12-17. Call 272-1989 now. 
Need ride to and-or from Boston-Pro­
vidence area for Christmas break. Will share expenses. Call Paul J:m. 
Need ride to New Jersey for IJreak. Share cost and driving. Call Bart 1484. 
Need ride to Long Island fer Christmas vacation. Can leave on the :!Oth, after 7 
p.m. Will share expenses. Call Mac 3470. 
Need ride to Florida. Can leave Dec. 22. 
Will share driving and expenses. Call 
Jack 6706. 
FOR RENT 

Apt. for rent, 2or 3persons,li165 or $180 per month with utilities, :~ mi. from Campus, Seniors or gra~l students. 289-5215 after 11 p.m. 
--------·--­
Nice 3 to 4 bedroom furnished house for rent. Walking distance to campus. Call 233-2613 after 5:00. 
One or two furnished bedrooms for rent ' in country house about 6miles from Notre 
Dame. 2n-3604. 
Two rooms in student house for second semester. Close to campus. Share rent & utilities. Call 288-D088. 
LOST 8r FOUND 

Lost: A Tl SR 51 calculator on the second 
floor of the Math Building. Help! 1need it 
for finals. Reward for its return. Dave 
2216
· 
found: Set of keys. Call 822i' to identify. -------------' 
11 
• I 

1 ass1 1e 
•
11 

t---------------~---------------1 are welcome. Only one kiss per customer 
Found: Asilver Tabby cat with brown flea ·I PERSONALS 
collar behind Badin. Call 8272. 
L---------------­
ost: Pair of wire rim glasses with 
photogray lenses in the area of the bars Thursdya night. Call Scott 234-Q722. 
Lost: One maroon & white scarf in vicinity of ND apts., Sue 289-8793. 
Found: Pair of girl's glasses in green case outside ACC Tues. afternoon. To claim call1389. 
Lost: Notre Dame notebook, law-ruled, management. Name on cover: Greg Meredith. Call 8435. Reward. 
Lost: Over 7days ago. Texas Instruments SR-5111 calculator. Urgently needed. Call 1479. 
Foudn: Pr. glasses near Fr. Sorin statue. Silver metal frames, tinted lenses, Baush & Lomb case. Call1733. 
Lost: Dark green down ski parka taken at Stepan Center last Saturday during Blue Fesitvallf seen or feeling guilty call John 6764. Please it's cold outside! 
Lost: Texas Instrument TI-50A calculator in Rm. 118 Nieuwland Wed. 11-16-77. Please return Tom 6713. 
Lost: Two silver rings: One is a wedding ring with the inscription "To RMF from JEP9-20"Dtheother has two silver balls on it. Will sell soul for return. Please contact Theresa at 1880 226 Lewis. 
Lost: At Junior Class Formal. A pinkie gold signet ring. Please call 4-4786. 
Lost: One blue ski jacket at 101 Party. Please call Charles Wolf 233-6773. 
Lost: Antique diamond ring. Sat. night, Zahm-Farley area. Please call Kathy 6816. 
FOR SALE 

"A-Caroling" the pe1fect Christmas gift by the Notre Dame Glee Club. On sale from any member or call 6352. 
A pr. Presage speakers. 2 way system with tune port. Great sound asking $120 
~~!· 877~------­
1971 Capri, 89,000 mi. Runs well, must sacrifice $450 call 4438. 
WHY PAY MORE??? Flanner Records has all $6.98 list lp's for only $4.50. All $7.98 list lp's only $5.29. Over 400 albums in stock. Phone orders accepted. 
FLANNER RECORDS, 322 Flanner, 
-T::h~~n:d:~;o:;~f~:: N~c~h \.
a . Pi;i~;~ ~~l~~: ~:~:~~~~:_~~
1 125 1

urs ay ec. ·a acu us an A pair of skis -poles -boots Size 9-10. red 4-section notebook. Desperately need Like new. $70.00 ph. 1127. noteb?ok for finals. No que;:t~ns asked. --------------­Call Jim 1•466 or stop by 25' av. Men's pair of figure skates size 13. Like 
.If rou want the real thing, not frozen or canned ••• We call It 
. "Mexican Food Supreme." 

Dallu location: 3071 Northweat Hwy 352-1570 
d A d ---r~ra~d~a~ ~:~ukee Dec. 14, 15, or
s 

I-------------­
1 Double birthday special for all SMC and 1 NO bBirthday kisses will be given 
11 ~~~~rg~c.1~~~sfo~iJ~~~ 111~~~~~ 0~1~~ Bernie or Ed at 1802 for appointment. All 
1 I ~~~r'y "Little Girl" should have sweets at
I Ch. t d , ns mas an you re no exception. Will I 
I fit in your stocking? Merry X-mas!
1 With all my love,1 KliglibI -----------------­
I Tina, Chris & Texas, Remember we are going to have lone' one's on New Year's in Dallas. 
your Bowl Bound Buddies 
Robert Manus Patrick Phillip Brennan IV. 
We could have!! Love, The Crew 
Bob, One day and counting the hours. 
Bob, Mark, Tim & Fred, Thanks ever so much. You're the bestest 0-C types, I know. Love, Maureen. 
P.S. How about a game of spoons? 
Bus trip to Cotton Bowl Chicago • St. Louis· Dallas. Round trip • $55.110. Call 2118-8235. 
Sister Krs, Have a happy b-day. Brother 
Steve 

·------------­1 used, but in good condition. Dixie cup holder. Price no object. North Dining Hall Nite Cooks 
I still love orange juice. 

Piel, Happy belated birthday. Love, 
Mindy and Mary 

Sue F. You are the girl of my dreams. I love you passionately. Buckwheats Friend 
Stanford Christmas List: Hagale: cello and light switch Flood: microwave oven and dry cleaning coupon 
Santa 
Jan, TLA equals weekend work; weekday play. 
Cupid 
Come watch Ed Andrle teach the Stan­ford Studs to Pirouette! 
T-Moore could do just as well. 
Dear Ed, I hear you have a sore mouth. 
Have you seen your mother-in-law lately?Typhoid Eileen 
Lee Ann, To my special pal. Merry Christmas! Love, KK 
Lammert starts trend! For more lnfor call 3526. 
&~:fs~~~~:~i;r~~=~~~~l~~~~
this semester to begin In January. 
Female student wanted to share large home with teacher. Excellent neighbor­
.!.~~...!LU .......... '• &((o,. p •.u·• I"'· ,l'·,, 40 .. v•••·-, ··••••&><•m·_......_ • .,•._.._ 'cl''""""*'r"er ~~~.:.~.ph., 11?~:. '· • .,_ c·u•••·•·' ·' , •·•• ,.~~Of!\..n.B2r ScOttSda!&. ~all. 289-4§1.4.,
--~----~-_, ________,_._._....,_. ------·w-­
1 per birthday.
I -------------­I Ed dB ·
I y an erme, 
ou will be perfect roommates if you 1 w~re around as much as Angelo. HappyI Birthday.I Jim, Dave and Tom 
II MDoarttthy, What's so great about tall guys? 
McMannis, you're over the hill, did we miss your peak? 
Happy birthday John, Bronchitis 
John, Happy b-day!! G 
Johnny, Why do you wear those turtle­necks? Happy b-day! 
Happy birthday Cathy and Ann, Love, Sharon, Sandy, Sonia, Anna, Katie, Margaret, Ann, Lisa, Loren, Martha, Debbie, Mary & Alison. 
Dear Bill, It was nice -generally speaking -to have you back for the semester. We enjoyed ­for the most part-your visits to the office. Good luck. 
Love, sort of, The Observer staff. 

munchldn: 10 fir H'a bean three Weeks and I hmn't goi bond yet; how about 1 star buzz tomorrow night? hllfwlv thert and atlll moving fannrd. wpl ihere H goes ag~ln. 1 
Killer, Early morning dates much? or late ·nights much? Pilar 
John Wayne alias Dr. J., It was the greatest!! Seen any deer lately? Love, Your two fallen women alias the Pilgrims 
P.S. We love Bernard too! · 
Dear H.C. 3T, Merry X-mas! Thanks for helping me! Especially Susie! Love, Tricla 
_____,, 
----~ 

Pipp, A Happy Birthday to you! MB&Ciare 
Dear Clyde, Here's the personal primosed two months ago. Are you happy now? CH 
Hey scuffy (that's you RB) take some advice, keep a stiff upper lip and next time use your head. 
There once was a Paddlefish named Terri, She is a "big" girl, yes very, We gave her a T-shirt wet, Boy did it show her set, Now for Little Miss Paddlefish, 
the South Quad she'll carry. 
fw~~~a~~~J::i:~n;ff:~~f~~e~
JC ---------·-----­Aquatic Plll'10nnel Meet, pape11ln hind, 'Thumlay It 10:110 
' .. l.m. atthe bog. _ --· , •
-* ----•­

l•t er~......~....--......-.....-~-t.-...._._.__. .. 
12 the observer Thursdoly, December 8, 19n 
Irish tame hapless Wildcats, 88-48 
by Paul Stevenson Sports Editor 
Evanston--If NDrthwestern fans thought they had a tough fall, they better not anticipate anything better during the winter. Last night, the Fighting Irish basketball team registered their fifth win of the season, annihilating the Wild­cats, 88-48. 
"They humiliated us," North­western Head Coach Tex Winter reflected. "Notre Dame has the ingredientes it takes to be a national contender." 
Notre Dame used a basic man to man defense to limit the hapless Wildcats to 48 markers. "We have been going with basic defenses," Irish mentor Digger Phelps commented. "We're not using the gimmicks we had to last year." 
ND connected on 54 percent of their field goal attempts. North­western found the range on only 
21.2 percent in the first half and 
38.2 in the second for an overall percentage of 29.9. 
Duck Williams led all scorers with 23 points, connecting on 11 of 18 from the field and one of one from the gift line. Dave Batton hit five of eight shots from the field and three of four from the charity stripe to follow Williams with 13 markers. 
Bill Laimbeer chalked up 11 points while leading the team with 12 rebounds. Batton and Flowers each notched eight caroms. Randy Carroll paced the Wildcats with eight points and John Egan added seven. The leading rebounder for Northwestern was Rod Roberson with three caroms. 
Notre Dame built a 14-0 lead before Egan was able to put Northwestern on the scoreboard with 7:01 elapsed int he first half. The Irish lead then bulged to 20-2 before the Wildcats were able to score again over two minutes later. The Irish led at intermission, 41-18. 
The story of the battle centered around rebounding. As a team, the Irish hauled in 53 caroms. Mean­while, Northwestern was only able to manage 33. 
Notre Dame committed 21 turn­overs while the Wildcats surren­dered the ball 26 times. But, using their board strength and consistent defensive play, the Irish were easily able to overcome their errors. 
Jeff Carpenter received his first starting nod of the 1977-78 season, replacing the injured Rich Bran­ning. The Irish Roadrunner con­nected on two of four field goals and added three assists during his 17 minutes of action. 
Notre Dame now prepares for their trip to Pauley Pavilion to face the UCLA Bruins this Saturday night. "I don't know how good we are," Phelps emphasized. "We try to keep the turnovers down and play consistently at both ends of the court.'' 
This weekend, the Irish will find out how good a team they really are. Meanwhile, Northwestern, now 2-2 on the season, will host Valparaiso on December 10. 
Tar Heels upset 
WILLIAMSBURG, Va [AP]-John Lowenhaupt scored 21 points to lead William & Mary's Indians to an upset 78-75 basketball victory Wednesday night over North Caro­!ina's second ranked Tar Heels. 
The Indians took a surprising 32-31 lead at halftime, then built it up to as many as 15 points with 
8:04 left. 
North Carolina, led by Phil Ford with 24 points and Tom Zaliagiris with 14, narrowed the gap after that but never was able to take the lead. 
The Tar Heels shot 43.2 percent from the floor to 59.5 percent for 


the Indians. 

Tom Desmondt::::::::::::::::=:=:=:=:=:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=:=:=:=:=:=:=;=:=;=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=;=:=:=:=:===================:=:::=:=:=:=:=:=;=::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:-:-:::-:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::. 
Strategy 
S. p . t 
;.;:::::::::::::::::;.;:::::::;.;.;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=:=:::=:::=:::::::=::::::;:;:;:;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::.-:-::::::::::::::::::::::::. 1x-o1n ers 
.·one doesn't have to think long to come up witli·a piethoi:a of cliches to . jelled and greatly contributed to Notre Dame's averaging 46 potnts per 
apply to the January 2nd meeting between the Fighting Irish of Notre Dame and the Longhorns of Texas. It'll be a wild one...for all the marbles...everything's on the table...the chips are down .. .it's make it or break it ... there's no tomorrow ... etcetera ...etcetera. 
The 42nd Cotton Bowl Classic shapes up as the number-one post-season clash. No amount of white-washing the media by the other bowls will cause the popularity of this year's Cotton to shrink. . . 
For the Fighting Irish the game represents the opportumty to fimsh the job that was started when Gary Forystek instilled fire into the 9ffense at Purdue. Until that point the Irish offense had been listless, forcing the defense to do yeomen's work in the heat of Mississippi. The relief effort of Forystek, although unmercifully abbreviated, the work of Rusty Lisch, and the explosion of Joe Montana onto the scene in West Lafayette began the long climb back. 
The green jerseys against Southern Cal and the awesome offensive shows against Navy, Georgia Tech, Air Force and Miami proved all the pre-season publicity correct. The Irish have emerged from that dismal day in the south as the most balanced all-around football team in the country. A football team that will have its chance tore-stake a claim for number-one it held at the season's start come the twilight in Dallas on the second day of January. 
Texas presents a formidable roadblock for the Irish on the road back to the top. The Longhorns have fought off all contenders being the only unscothed team in the nation. An overflow crowd at the Cotton Bowl and millions on national television will be in for a shootout come 1:10 p.m. Central Time on January 2nd. 
When Texas has the ball: The recipient of the Reisman Trophy this 
evening, in all probability, will be Earl Campbell, the stud of the Longhorn stockyards. Campbell paced the nation in rushing and scoring registering an incredible 6.5 yards per attempt in the process. 
The Texas offense will be familiar to the Irish--a combination of the power-! and the veer-T. But, Coach Freddie Akers approaches these high-powered offenses with a little twist. Joining Campbell in the. backfield is Johnny (Ham( Jones, a halfback at 5'9, 180. With Campbell and Jones the Longhorns have no "weak side." When in the I-formation, Campbell assumes the tailback position and in the veer, he's at right halfback. Ham Jones has carried but 92 times yet his average is a very potent 5.3. 
Former third-string quarterback Randy McEachern' directs the attack and he runs seldomly but effectively. His task, other than get the ball to Campbell. is to make the most of receivers Johnny (Lam) Jones and Alfred Jackson. "Lam" Jones is an olympic sprinter and his stats indicate that 
·as he has caught 21 passes for 543 yards (25. 7 avg.) and seven scores. Jackson has 19 catches for 481 yards (25.3 avg.). McEachern: hits SO percent of his passes, so every time he goes to the air, the Longhorns are even money to pick up over twenty yards. 
... 
Defensively the Irish must combl't an old nemesis--the veer and power I run with a superstar back. Tony Dorsett ran Notre Dame·ragged from a similar offense and the success of Ricky Bell and Charles White operating out of USC's tailback slot bears this out. Ross Browner and Willie Fry will be the keys to the defense as they must contain the quickness of Texas at the corners. 
With a preoccupation with the option and run, ihe linebackers will not be able to afford to provide the secondary with much help against the talented receivers. At the corners, Luther Bradley and Ted Burgmeier will be the keys for they will be as instrumental in stopping the run as they v.-ill in blanketing the Texas wide receivers. 
When the Irish have the ball: In some respects, this was the finest season ever for the Notre Dame offense. The team set a modern record for scoring with 382 points this season. No Notre Dame team has thrown more passes and only one, the 1949 National Champions, completed as many touchdown passes (18). 
Joe Montana has hit on 52 percent of his passes for 1,604 and 11 touchdowns. Ken MacAfee who will probably prove to be Campbell's! biggest competition for the Reisman tonight (if he doesn't indeed win it) has caught 54 passes for 797 yards and Kris Haines averaged 21 yards per catch on his 28 receptions. 
Complimenting the solid passing attack, the Irish ground game has 
contest in their last_ six outings. Jer~·1me Heavens has mo~ed back t~ ~is 
fullback slot allowtng Vagas Ferguson to occupy the tailback position 
giving the Irish a pair of running and pass-receiving threats in the 
backfield. Heavens can go inside and outside, as can Ferguson and this 
provides even more problems for the defensive team as Dan Devine has 
truly developed a multiple offense. 

"Shout~. the largely untested defensive ~nit come through, Te~as wi_ll 
be tough, was Sports lllustrated summation of the Longhorns tn thetr 
pre-season issue. That untested, but stable defense will have seven 
sophomores in the starting line-up in Dallas. 

Spearheaded by senior Brad Shearer, the Texas defensive front has 
limited its opponents to a meager 91.1 yards per game. Shearer will be 
one of three finalists (Browner and MacAfee are the others) for the 
Lombardi Trophy competing in the Cotton Bowl and the 6-4,260 pound 
senior tackle is second .on the squad with 109 tackles, including seven 
sacks. The Texas front line has been hurt however by the loss of leading 
tackler, middle guard Laney Taylor who suffered a shoulder injury against 
A&M and will miss the bowl. 

The defensive secondary is headed by sophomore Johnnie Johnson. 
Johnson, a sophomore, has lead the backfield crew that has seven 
interceptions but more importantly limited opponents to but 107 
completions on 266 att~mpts--a paltry 40 percent. Specia~ists: When two 
great_teams ~eet the k1~kmg ga~e ver_y ~ften spells the difference. Here 
the b1g question mark IS Texas spec1ahst Russell Exlerben. Exlerben 
suffered a pulled groi~ muscle s~veral weeks ago and ~h~uld be rea~y for 
the game. When he IS on, he g1ves Texas the b~st ktckmg game m the 
cou~try. Owner of the ~CAA field goal record wtth a 67 yarder, he also 
carrtes a 45.9 yard pu!lttng average . . 
Dave R~eve e~ta~hshed the Notre Dame ktck-scormg . record for a season ag~tn~t M1~m1 but has not_connected_ on a field goal smce th~ Navy contest, m1ssmg h1s attempts agamst Georgia Tech and Clemson wh1le not ~~ying a~y t_hree-point_ers agai~st Air Force or Mia~i. How mu~h this 
lay-off will affect _h1m remams to be seen as he d1d come up w1th the pressure fi~ld g~al~ m the firs! few g_ames after a mu~h l?ng~r l~y-off_. 
Joe Restlc agam tmproved h1s pu•·tmg ave~age at ~tam1 fintshtng w1th a 3~.1 average. Texas has a top re .trner m Johnnte Johnson and _the nation's fifth-ranked punt return te.. m overall. The Longhorns may JUst have the better of the Irish on the ~necia] teams. Intangibles: There will be no mot ntum advantage at the start of the ballgame as both teams bring Jon win streaks and the suprement of motivations--the National Title--int• • the game. 
The Irish seniors have been ther before. Ken MacAfee has said that this will be t~e biggest game of his :~reer. The seniors have experiet:tced beating an undefeated team in a buwl game. 
On the other hand, the Longhorns are a young team that has not seen the pressure that the national media can apply to a game. The young Texas defense has .arisen to the occasion ail season but their reaction to a skilled multiple offense has yet to be seen . 
The Irish boast the nation's thirr'-ranked rushing defense. Joe Yonto and company have a habit of comin1 up with the defensive strategy to stop a high-gear running attack in the b Is. The key will be forcing the Texas offense into second-and-long, thir< . '-lnng situation as not to be burned by the surprise pass. 
The Longhorns on the other ha1 have the spred as Clemson did, but neither has a running back as g1 -~ ,s Earl Campbell. With a running attack that nets chunks of real . :ne with each snap of the ball, the Longhorn passing attack becomes a very l-·g weapon. In Johnny (Lam) Jones, Texas has the fastest man .n football, but if the Irish can read the pass plays effectively it will remain to be seen how well McEarhen can pass on the middle-distance patterns that are needed to convert long third-down plays. 
With a great deal of players seeing action in thejr final game, the Irish have a lot of experienced people to handle thepressurepf a ' ritle fight." The young Texas players have a taste of success found at the top of the mountain and don't want to relinquish it. Both teams have potent attacks and the game will come down to the defense's ability to provide field position and breaks that will decidr the contest. ; And, the Notre Dame defense has had a history of com g up with the big performance in pressure games of the past. 
*Observer 

Sports 
Belles to open 
b-ball season 
at Huntington 
by Laurie Reising Women's Sports Editor 
St. Mary's opens its 1977-78 basketball season on . the road tonight travelling to Huntington College. 
The Belles had an impressive 15-3 record last year finishing fourth in the Northern Indiana district and their new coach Carol Willig is confident of another successful season. She had ·nine veterans with two or more years of playing on her squad of 12 and says, "With such depth on the bench I won't ever have to worry about substituting either on the offense or defense. This is really a closely knit group and the girls have shown they know what team play is all about." 
Two veterans who will be instru­mental in the St. Mary's attack are sophomore Nancy Nowak and junior Martha Kelly. The two shared high scoring honors last season and Willig is counting on Kelly's 5'9 stature in bringing down those all important rebounds. they will be joined by 5'10 Kath­leen Cullen, Diane Klucka and Meg Holland in the starting line-up. 
The group has been practicing as a team since the October try-outs but has been in a conditioning program Willig established since the beginning of the semester. 
"The program consists mainly of running and weight lifting; just to get them back into shape," com­mented Willig. "Now we're work­ing on our full court pressure defense, fast break and set plays," she continued. 
When asked her predictions for Thursday's game, the coach re­marked that "Huntington was a close game last season and it will definitely be a good start if we win this one." 
Assisting Willig in the coaching duties will be Lew Fox who to the St. Mary's campus from 
semi-pro ranks. Willig feels will be a great help because of ' vast experience on the court." 
The team witl tip off their season next Monday when take on Tri State University at pm. All home games will be in the Angela Athletic Facility. 






