.. ··'· .yr.·. 
council meeting to voice their opposition. As a result, Tully reopened the
Whole 
; issue and told the unhappy class by Dave O'Keefe members that they could circulate Staff Reporter petitions to be signed by seniors who went on the trip and wanted the money rebated to the students. After weeks of debate, discus­Those petitions were to have sion and petition, the fate of the been presented at yesterday's $5700 rebated to the senior class by meeting of the Senior Advisory United Airlines has been decided. Council by 4:15 P.M. Despite a 
Class 

To Keep 
The money will be retained by the 45-minute extension granted by class. Tully, no one showed up to present Earlier this month, senior class the petitions to the council. President Rob Tully announced As a result, the issue was
$5700 
that the money, returned to the declared closed, and the money will class as a result of an overcharge be used by the senior clas to defray 
\ by United on the class trip to the expenl)es of remaning class California, was to be kept by the activities. class rather than returned in the In other business, the council


Left 
form of individual rebates to sen­heard from The Observer Business iors who went on the trip. Manager Tom Fronczak, who out­That decision had been made by lined in detail the financial plight of the four class officers in conjunc­the paper that has led to its request

By Trip 
tion with John Reid, assistant for a student subscription rate hike. , director of student affairs, and the The council withheld endorse­Senior Advisory Council. ment of the rate hike pending 
Several seniors registered dis­further discussion of the matter satisfaction with the decision, and next Wednesday at its regularly­many showed up at last week's scheduled meeting. 




an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's 
Thursday, February 24, 19n 
'Something different' 
in stage plays 

comes to Theatre 
Something completely different Francisco State College did The is coming to the O'Laughlin stage. Madman And Tbe Nun in 1967. Tomorrow, the ND/SMC Theatre The ND/SMC Theatre is present­opens its production of Staislaw ing the second production of They Ignacy Witkiewicz's They, a differ­ever done in this country, and the ent kind of theater from an author first of any of Witkiewicz's work in who was only recently introduced the Midwest. to the English speaking world. The show opens with Callisto 
They is a farce about humanity's Bandlash, the world's tore-most fear of automation. A secret collector and connoisseur of art, government is trying to destroy carousing, lusting and discussing modern art, because it is individual everything in general with his and personal, to secure their take­fiancee, Spika (Ellen Flach). over. Intellectuals, artists, the Balandash (Michael Feord) is then military and philosophers are a few interrupted by the arrival of who come under satirical attack. Seraskier Banga Tefuan (Matt 
Witkiewicz, now recognized as McKenzie), chairman of the league one of the world's top modern of Absolute Automationism playwrights, was a Polish painter, Tefuan leads the entire group of playwright, novelist and philoso­"They" in destroying everything pher who killed himself when the Balandash and Spike uphold. 

r'{ Germans and Russians invaded his There will be performances to­
( country in 1939. morrow, Saturday, and March 3, 4, Ellen Flach as Spika, Kathy Lawrence as Fitty, and Michael Feord as Balandash in the NO-SMC The first production in English of and 5. Tickets are two dollars and production of Witkiewicz's They opening Friday night at O'Laughlin. any of his work occurred when San can be reserved, calling 284-4176. 




Carter nods approval re CIA activities 
W ASIDNGTON [AP] -President During the news conference, the gress a message about that, pro­mistake, I'll be the one, as Presi­Carter put his stamp of approval President made these points: bably next week. dent. to call a press conference and yesterday on all current CIA activi­• He has not reached any decision • He prefers to have all public I'll tell you, the American Peop}e. ties and said his review of news on whether to go ahead with elections federally financed, an 'this is what happened, these are reports that the CIA has secretly production of the costly Bl bomb­extension of the system by which the people who violated the law, paid millions of dollars to foreign ers but hopes to decide by May. "I the government now pays for the this is the punishment I would leaders has "not found anything have serious questions whether the presidential election campaign. recommend, this is the corrective illegal or improper." B1 ought to be in the center of Carter also said he favors elimi­action that needs to be taken, and I 
Carter defended the $2.75-billion airborne defense capability,'' he nating the electoral college and promise you it won't happen reduction in defense expenditures said. providing "a simple way for Ameri­again.' " · he proposed in the revised budget Carter said that he would be less can people who are citizens and 18 m a reply to a question about he submitted to Congress on likely to order a production go­vears old to register to vote." newspaper accounts of secret CIA Tuesday. Bat he said "I• 'ln't say" ahead if the Soviet Union cooper­•Secrdary of State Cyrus Vance's payments to King Hussein of whether next year's Pentagon bud­ates in "lessening tensions." recent Middle East trip was ''very Jordan and other foreign leaders get will be more. •The administration is analyzing successful.'' Vance reported to totaling millions of dollars :n return 
The President promised to send the pressures and problems of Carter on the trip during a morning for intelligence and other advan­Congress his proposal for a new inflation, and Carter will speak out meeting with national security tages, Carter told yesterday's news department of energy "the first of on corrective measures when that advisers. conference. "I have adopted a next week" and said he probably analysis is completed. "I think Carter said he plans to see Arab policy. which I am not going to will present his comprehensive rigid wage and price guidelines are and Israeli leaders in Washington leave, of not commenting directly energy policy in a speech to a joint a mistake," he said. starting March 12 with Israeli on any specific CIA activities... I session of Congress around April But Carter said he will "retain Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin. The have reviewed the more controver­
20. the option" of asking business and White House later said the propo­sial revelations that have been 
Carter made the point in his labor for advance notice of wage or sed visit is planned for March 7 and publicized in the last few days, second nationally televised news price increases. He said the 8. some quite erroneous, some with conference as President. The program would be voluntary. During his presidential cam­some degree of accuracy. questioning appeared more pointed •Another analysis is being conduc­paign Carter pledged he would "These same operations have than during his first, on Feb. 8, but ted on reducing the amount of provide full public accountability of been reviewed by the Intelligence he answered without any substan­government regulation over busi­intelligence abuses or mistakes. Oversight Board, an independent • tial miscues and lingered after­ness beginning with the airline On Feb. 11, 1976, in Manches­board, and also by my predecessor, ward to talk to reporters after industry. ter. N.H., Carter was quoted as President Ford. I have not found television cameras were turned off. Carter said he will send Con-saying: "If the CIA ever makes a anything illegal or improper." JIMMY CARTER 


---------.------~~..g~----~----•a~--~------.~·..-·--~•a.-~..,,..~~~~------= 
Thursday, February 24, 1977
'!the observer 
i 

! 
.; 

~ 
. I 
• 
i 
.l 
; . ' 
t.. 
~~-NewsBri~s--~ 
I==================International 
Amin claims American plot 
KAMPALA, Uganda Pr,.sident lbi Amin claimed yesterday t~at an alleged plot he crushed last week was to have climaxed wtth an airborne landing of paratroopers fom the United States, Britain or Israel. A U.S. State Department spokesman termed "absurd" allegations that the United States was supporting a plot aimed at Amin. 

ational 

Gulf Oil Corp. accused by House 
WASHINGTON--Gulf Oil Corp. violated federal law by failing to deliver contracted amounts of natural gas to a pipeline system serving 16 states, a House subcommittee charged yesterday. Gulf denied that it is deliberately withholding gas and said it is doing everything "humanly possible" to get it to customers. 


Valentine's Day suspects ~ught 
INDIANAPOLIS--Police took "several suspects" into custody yesterday for questioning in the Valentine's Day _slayings of four young brothers at Hollandsburg in western lndtana. 


Youth shoots husband and wife 
NORTH MANCHESTER Ind.--A man here was shot to death, his wife critically wounded and a 14-year-old boy taken into custody for the shootings, state police said yesterday. 

~On Campus Today----.~ 
1 pm-3pm 1:15pm 
4pm 
4 pm-10 pm 
7:00pm 7:00pm 
8 pm 9 pm-11 pm blood drive, infirmary. 
workshop, interview skills, sponsored by student affairs, lemans, executive board room. 
lecture, "micelar (and other) effects on complex ions," by dr. daniel meisel, chemistry division, argonne national laboratory, argonne, illinois, sponsored by radiation laboratory, conference room, radiation laboratory. 
show, recreational vehicles show, tickets $1.50, under 16 free, ace. 
panel discussion, ''mirages of memory: 200 years of indiana art," nd art gallery. 
lecture, "consulting engineering," by dewey noland of mac namee, porter & seeley, sponsored by american society of civil engineers, business auditorium, room 122, hayes-healy. 
concert, madrigal singers, smc little theater. 
nazz, billy hassell, chris nemeth, nazz. 

.-----~~~~~~------~·
NOTRE D.4ME STUDE:NI UNIVt'l (!(
*The Observer 
TOOAY'S THEME: The Gods 
Night  Editor:  Chris  Atlas  
Smith  
Asst.  Night  Editors:  Steve  
Cupid Odland,  Leigh  Perse­ 
phone Tunakan  

Layout Person: Barry ajax 
Tillis Editorial layout: Pat Hades Hanifin Features layout: Leo Pygmal­ion Hansen Sports layout: Greg Sisyphus Solman 
Slaves of the Keyboard: Gwen Coleman, Rusty Espinosa, Kathy Egbert, Mel Celeste n.c.: Morey Zeus Blinder Day Editor: Marian Ulicny Copy Reader: Barb Aphrodite Langhenry, Drew the Trojan Horse Vicinie Ad Layout: Pat Russell Photographer: Debbie Krilich 
I ht• Ob.,Prv~>r •~ puhll-.hPd Monday throu~h I nddy and wt•t>kly dunng. tht> -.ummt-r ws.,ion. f'X<.Ppt dunng tht• f'X.lm and vat at10n pt>noch Tht· Ob..f'rv.>r ... rubll'>ht-d by '>IUdPnt<, of tht> UniVI'r'>IIY of Notn· DamP and ~~ Mdry·., <.ollt·gt· Sub"><nptior•.-. m.ty ht• puH hd'>l'd for '1>20 rwr Yt'dr I'!> 10 pN '>l'lllf''>ll'r) from I ht· Obwr­v•·r. l~ox <). Notrt• Ddrnt•. lnd1and 41/i'il, ':>t·t oncl cIa'>'> po-.t.sgt· panl, N()tn· [),urH·. lnci1.111.J 4f,'i'ih 
Ilw ob...•·rvt·r I'> d nu•mlwr of t hf' A.,.,qc l.tlr·d l'r1•..,-, All r•·prodtu tum r11.!hh .tr•· rt·'>f·rv•·d 

Haughton lecture draws crowd 
by Mary Kay Baron 
British theologian Rosemary Haughton spoke about "Romantic Love and the Theology of Mar­riage" last night to an audience that fiJJed St. Mary's MadeJeva Building. Most of the audience stayed after the lecture to ask questions . and discuss recent issues, such as the sexuaJ revoJu­
tion. Mrs. Haughton distinguishes romantic Jove from marriage, and stated their combination reflects divine love.To emphasize her point she traced the definition of roman­tic Jove. "Falling in Jove, for each person, seems so extraordinary, so personal, that it doesn't seem like anyone eJse could share that feel­ing. A whole new experience takes place and it changes a person's 

whether they ]ike it or  not," she  
continued.  i  
Haughton explained  the  reJig­ 

ious dimension of marriage as expressing Divine reality, an image of God's Jove, God's creative power in man and a perfection of working out everyday responsibilities and realtionships. ' 

"Such marriage can have a very great splendor as a huQ-tan relation-' 
ship. as a human achievement, and as a sociaJ reality. A great deaJ of heroism often comes to this kind of relationship,'' she further stated. 
Tracing the historical develop­ment of attitudes toward love, Haughton distinguishes the elev­enth and twelveth centuries as providing the tou~hstone for court· Jy love, a bPginning for reJation­ships fiJlecl with passionate love and faithfulness. 

Transferred into the Christian marraige, such a relationship' re­flects the Divine love as a speciaJ service and Jordship between the lovers, she said. 
"To serve each other is a delight," Haughton continued. ''They want to c!_o difficult !hings 
[continued on page 7] 

Observers meet 
There will be a mandatory 
meeting for aiJ Observer staff 
emembers who are invoved in 
the current petition drive. The 
meeting wiJl be held at The 
Observer office, top floor LaFor­
tune at 10 p.m. 
AJI signed petitions should be 
handed in at the meeting. 
worJd ~s ifthe.person ~nters ,i~to a .--.--...-.••••••••--••· -•••••• 
new kmd of hfe altogether, she t 
sa~~ughton expressed her ideas ..6.. on mar.riage, placing str~ss again ...,. 
on the tmportance of sharmg. 

+ 
"What makes the marriage sue-..6.. cessful is its continuity...as it deaJs• ...,. 
~.ith coping wit~ the. responsibil-: 
tttes and relattonshtps through! various stages of life," she ex­pJained. 

·+ 
"Marriage is teamwork...it .... establishes some kind of commu-...,. 
nity as the couple with a great .... 
number of people. This provides a • 

settingEoRtRATA life. t 
An article in yesterday's Obser-I ver mis-quoted Observer Editor ...,. Thomas O'Neil at Tuesday's HPC + meeting as saying "The Observer .&. wouldJoseoversts.ooothissemes-...,. 
ter." The quote should have read + 
"Th~ Ob~erver ~~pects an $18,000 
defictt thts year. 
The Observer was not audited as was reported in the same article. 

THe defici~ fi~ure 
of $18,000 was
used by 0 Neil was one drawn up by University Auditor Lou Cohen as a projection after examining The Observer books. O'Neil did not mean to imply that an audit had been undertaken. 
Student body president candi­date Patrick Mooney was miss quoted in yesterday's Observer article on his platform as saying, "We want to make ourselves the best candidates. And this is secondary to winning the election at this point." The quotation should have read, "And winning the eJection is secondary to this at this point.'' 

SUNSHINE PROMOTIONS PRESENT 

.... 
...,. ... ...,. 
~ 
4ir 
~ ·~-· -·~ ~. 
-..·~ 
0 
l. t~ 
ff

0 ers very goo experience. I 
· · ....,.

Submit cover letter & resume at ...


, ....,.

Observer office by Friday +
J

Thank you
• 

· .-. · Ac;C9Unting +
JuN10 R'5-,,,, 
.&.

. ....,.
• • • • t .· • • .&. 
The Observer IS looking ... 
· --t
for a 
i 

BUSINESS MANAGER f the 1977 78 school
or -• year. The job is a : 
salaried position that +
d • .&. 
-················· 
t waUY'S
f 8
st

JUSt pa OPEN FRI. & SAT. 
TILL MIDNIGHT 
6-Packs 




$1.19 
Old 
Chi~ago Philadelphi~
Wh1skey 
\-OCI(s, 
LIQUOR 'VOR\..0 
South B•d Ave. 277-3611 
12 pack Busch 



$308 
8 pack Stroh's $2°7 
$489 $g59
tor 

.--R_u_m_ Vod~a $399 $49&. Gin $3~. 
KentuckY. Tavern 

$549

Bourbon 
Qt. 

Guckenhiemer 
Whiskey $495 
Qt. 


PARTY?!? 
Don't forget we're 
open 'till MIDNIGHT!! 

1
9 



Thursday, February 24, 1977 the observer 

Candidate platforms discussed in Zahm forum 
by Katie Kerwin Senior Staff Reporter 
Communication, social space and the restructuring of student organ­izations emerged as major platform concerns 'of many of the student body presidential and vice-presi­dental candidates during a forum held in Zahn Hall last night. 
All nine SBP-SBVP tickets were represented at the forum and were given the opportunity to make a short statement of platform and goals to the crowd of about 60 students. A question-and-answer session followed the platform pre­sentations. 
RusseU-Geppert 
SBP candidate J.P. Russell and his running mate, John Geppert, advocated a "revitalization of Student Government,'' which would include a redefinition of the hall presidents role to include representation of the hall in cam­pus-wide matters. 
Russell stated that "there is no single, simple solution to the social life problem,'' and outlined several suggestions to help alleviate the situation, such as a Student Center facility and greater utilizaion of LaFortune Student Center. Saying that the current system forces students to come to Student Gov­ernment, he said, "We're going to take the initiative ourselves." Russell cited a newsletter a "cam­paign of familiarity" and a State of the Campus Address as ways of reaching mo~~ ~t_udents. 
Talbot·Hughes John Talbot declared that "Stu­dent Government is not ineffective because of its structure, but be­cause of internal problems. Creat­ing more representative bodies would be more of a hindrance to effective operation.'' Talbot said he would like to put more emphasis back on dorm life, organize social commisioners cam­tpus-wide, publish a booklet to aid halls in planning social events, make greater use of Stepan Center 
Lew announces Dunegan as running mate 
Student body president candi~ date Tim Lew has announced his running mate as Karen Dunegan, a soohomore pre-professional ma­jor from Badin. 
Explaining that Karen had just returned from a whirlwind fact-fin­ding tour of all the dorms, Lew emphasized that this is not another Eagleton affair. 
Seated with his guitar in front of the South Dining Hall at lunch yesterday, he spoke in favor of The Observer petitions, even though The Observer had omitted his running mate's name from the list of candidates in yesterday's paper. Lew said he has forgiven The Observer out of respect for Lent. 

Freaky Friday -or-i Fuh With Dick And Jane 
--~

--·-------. ---­
Quickie leaves circle 
8: 3 0' 9 : 00' 9 : 3 0, 1 0 1 1 1 1 1, 21 12:30, 1:001 1:30 
Fare: A mere "six bits" 
and es-tablish an off-campus social commtsstoner. He also spoke about making students more aware of the services offered and oppor­tunities available for them on campus. _. 
Mooney-Morrison Candidate Patrick Mooney stres­sed the importance of research and full investigation of the possibilities 
and implications of proposals. He added that expectations must be kept in perspective. "Keep in I?in~ that Student Government tsn t sovereign here," he cautioned. He promised, if1 elected, to discuss student ideas with his staff and the Administratidn to determine which 
are  feasible,  and  then  to  act  
accordin_gly.  '  
Hohman-Bartlett  
''Confusing,  complicated  and  

distant" was Rich Hohman's eval­uation of Stu~ent Government at present. "It's! tangled up in power struggles and overwhelmed by ineffectivenes~." he said. Hoh­man's propo~ed approach is a survey to determine the most pressing student needs, followed by a presentation to the Admini­stration of thd major concerns. He maintains th~t a few issues with strong studerit support stand the best chance !of 'being realized. "Keep it simple,'1 was Hohman's approach. · 
Ben~er-Soma 

David Bender and Tom Soma asked, "What can Student Govern­ment do for you as an individual?" They said th~y feel their platform presents an a~swer. They propose to increase Student Government's accountabilitY! and student input by means of a weekly forum attended by campus media, in which the SBP and SPVP would confer directly with students. They also propose revision of the Student Life Concil to bring it into closer contact with dorm life copcerns, a complaint agency, Student Union reforms, utilization of potential alumni sup­port and a more equitable system of social space. Bender, president of Sorin Hallj also highlighted the background apd experience he said he feels he aO:d Soma offer. Soma is now in the iStudent Government ca met. 1
b. I 
!RJcci-Eck 

Vice-presid,ential candidate Mark Eck spbke on behalf of his ticket, headep by Ken Ricci, who was not pres~nt. Eck outlined the three main gcl>als of their platform: "rallying stu~ents behind Student Government; 1 checking on and keeping the heat on the Admini­stration; and reorganization of Student Govdrnment." A visit to each dorm \every semester, a question-and-~nswer column in the Observer and a system of hall representativ~s to serve as direct links between ~tudents and Student Government \are 'the proposed· means of gatbering student sup­port. Eck explained that the offi­cers would the~ use this support as a lever in eatings with the Administratio He cited liquor regulations, t e opening of more 
I The ev~r ~opular 
Kubiaks I 

See also ~t ~orum 
I I 
This 

Friday & .Saturday 
business courses to non-majors, LaFortune improvements and revi­val of the University Judicial Board as areas he and Ricci are concerned with. 
Lew-D~e_gan 

SBP candidate Tim Lew began his presentation by reading a joke platform, commenting, "Student Government as it is now is pretty much of a joke. We can kid ourselves and try and ,get some justification out of it, but'it just gets worse every year.'' He said that students are apathetic because they have no communication with the government. This lack of interest and support leads to the stone-walling by the Administra­tion that Student Government en­counters. Lew blamed the present system for much of the problem and said that it results in a campaign that he termed "pathe­tic" and "ludicrous." , 
''Anyone with a spark of ambi­tion is forced into playing the role of everybody's friend and riding the saleable issues," he !observed. He added that the product of such elections are political debts, crony­ism and cliquishness and an alien­ated student body. . 
Miranda-Ointon 

Ralph Miranda and h~s running mate, Bob Clinton called for Stu­dent Government to be more open and accountable to the i students, . suggesting direct phone lines to the SBP and SBVP as a first step. He stressed the need for more com­munication and added that coordin­ation of efforts could help to avoid scheduling conflicts in hall and campus events. Extension of parie­tals is also a part of his. platform, Miranda said, adding that he will seek student, faculty and Admini­stration opinion on the issue and try to draw up a proposal that will be satisfactory to all. 
Hanly-Mciver' 

This campaing has reduced the 
issues to non-issues, SBP candi­
date Valerie Hardy stated, because 
regardless of who is elected, the 
same things will get done. LaFor­
tune government, as she: termed it, 
fails to challenge students. She 
pointed to the issues df drinking 
rules, parietals and social space, 
asking, "What does this say about 
us as human beings?" flardy said 
Student Government : must set 
priorities above those already men­
tioned, suggesting soqial justice 
and eliminating povertr and vio­
lence as deserving of equal consid­
eration. i 
Hardy and Mciver distributed a three-page platform statement, which includes the est~blishment 
Art Institute trip scheduled : 
The Art Department i~ sponsor­ing a bus trip to the Chicago Art Institute on Thursday March 3. 
The bus will leave at 9: am from the CCE and return early that evening. The cost of tlfe trip is $5.50 and must be paid by Friday, Feb. 25 in the Art Departlment. 
! 

of an Iterpersonal Development stitutional amendment to give hall Organization to be given equal presidents the authority to repre­standing and funding with Student sent their halls in campus issues. Government and Student Union. He expressed the opinion that, with Q and A session better management of time, a more 
A disagreement arose during the active role for hall vice-presidents question-and-answer session about and delegation of power, hall what the role of the hall president presidents could handle both hall should be. Eck, in response to a and campus responsibilities. He question about the hall respresen-suggested a leadership workshop tation system his ticket has propo-this spring to develop these skills. sed, explained that as a hall Russell's running mate, Gep­president, he feels his duty is to pert, defended their proposed zero­serve his hall first, that the addition based budget, explaining that it of the responsibilities of being allocates money in response to representative of the hall on cam-needs indicated and justified by a pus-wide issues is an overburden recipient, building up from zero, and that something will have to rather than turning over sums on suffer as a result. the basis of the previous year's 
Russell has recommended a con-budget.
_;;..·-----­


Insurance appraisals and purchases of fine diamonds and estate jewelry provided. *Graduate Gemologist: Gemological Institute of America 
• Fellow Gemmologist: 

Lobby St. Joseph Bank Bu'lding South Bend, Indiana Telephone; 287-1427 
Gemmological Association of Great Britain Indiana University 
John M. Marshall's 


COiamond 9mpoftt Company 
Your Source for the Unusual

·4.····­

ATTENTION SMC STUDENTS 
Applications are now being accepted for the 1978 BLUE MANTLE 
Positions of -assistant editor -photography editor -business manager 
are open 
Please submit cover letter & resume to · 
Suzy Puhl 1760 McCandless 
March .7. estions?? 41 
( trhere IS a differen~e!!! 
PREPARE FOR: 


~.WJ.[l}~ 
GMAT • GRE • OCAT CF¥\T • VAT • SAT 
Our broad range of programs provides an umbrella of test­ing know-how that enables us to offer the best preparation available. no matter which course is taken. Over 38 years of experience and success. Small classes. Voluminous home study materials Courses that are constantly up­dated. Permanent centers open days & weskends all year. Complete tape facilit1es for review of class ,essons and for use of supplementary materials. Make-ups for missed les­sons at our centers. 
ASK ABOUT OUR COMPACT COURSES 
20?0 W. Devon lr~-H 
Ch1cago, Ill. 60645 KAPlAN 
(312) 764-5151 EOUCATIONALCENTER 
Outs1de NY State On lv CALL TOLL FREE 
T£ST PREPARATION

800 221 9840
" " '>PECIALI'>T') ':oiN(E ''ill1 
-PREPARE FOR THE NEW MCAT WHERE THERE IS ALWAYS A DIFFERENCE 


Thursday, February 24, 1977
the observer 

Not Just Another Bar 
by Patrick Cole 
If you're not a senior, test your knowledge to see if you know anything about the Alumni-Senior Club: 
-'Ille Alumni-Senior Club Is an organJza. don for the oldest Notre Dame alumni. 
False: Although it is for those Notre Dame students who are presently the oldest in the school 
-'Ille SenJor Bar, as it Is also named, was once the home of Knute Rockne. Probably false: But then who knows? 
•The Senior Bar was converted Into a more Uvely and entertaining place this past summer. True, indeed. 
-The Senior Bar Is located behind the south end of the Notre Dame Stadium. True and if you just have now recognized where the bar is, keep on reading. 
The Senior-Alumni Club, better known to fourth-year darners as the Senior Bar, might become your favorite place to hang out during your senior year. It's a place where you can reminisce about all you experiences of the past four years, where you can drink for the best prices around and it's also a place that you call your very own with the rest of the seniors. 
Probably the only bad thing about the Bar is that some students--even seniors-­don't know about it, says Jim O'Connell, the bar manager. To attrack more people to the bar, the senior bar managers and volunteers spent hours this past summer renovating the old two-stroy structure. 
Renovations 

A total of $7400 was spent renovating the Senior Bar, starting in late August. "There isn't a surface that didn't have something done to it," stated O'Connell, a senior from Washington, D.C. "A new floor was put in throughout the bar--this was a major 
expense.  All  the  work  was  done  by  
employees except for the floor,  and they  
didn't receive any pay."  

"Some days we worked from 9 a.m. to midnight," said Chuck Huttinger, t.he general manager of the Bar and a semor f,·om New Kinsington, Pa. "The money went out for the supplies.'' 
"One of our best workers was a sophomore, Jeff Schneider," Huttinger added. • • He wa.; not employed by the Bar, but he did 100 percent volunteer work. He set up stereo system and was the general handyman. He has been invaluable to us." 
Not only has the physical appearance of the Bar been changed inside, but the social atmosphere has changed as well. "This year we've changed the Bar from a place for regulars to a place for seniors," O'Connell mentioned. 
As a result. about 1300 Senior Bar cards used to purchase drinks were sold this year, according to Huttinger. The price was $7.00 per card during the first semester; this semester they can be purchased for $4.00. 
"The place was built to be a house." O'Connell continued. "And it was in constant need of repair. And now since we have bigger crowds, the whole south side which was renovated is being used." 
The Senior Bar employs 25 people. This includes regular bartenders and bouncers who receive the minimum University wage. There are three managers: O'Connell, Huttinger and Rich Johnson, a senior from Havertown, Pa. who handles special nights and promotions. 
Food and drinks 
The regular operating hours for the bar 
are from 8 p.m. to 2 a.m. Wednesday 
through Saturday. Happy Hour is on 
Fridays from 3 to 6 p.m. Monday and 
Tuesday nights are reserved for organi­
zations and clubs at $35 per night. This 
price includes a bartender and a bouncer. 
Once you make it over to the Senior Bar 
the first time you soon discover that it's not 
a bar like Nickie's or The Library. Potato 
chips, pretzels and munchies are sold. 
Hoagies, which s~ll for $1.40 in the hall, 
sell for $1.25 at the Senior Bar. The Bar 
makes its own pizzas. A cheese one will 
cost you $2.00, and pepperoni pizzas go for 
$2.10. Occasionally, there are hot dog 
specials including a cold beer for 50 cents. 
"During the football season, we cooked hamburgers and hot dogs before the games,'' O'Connell added. 
Also important to the Senior Bar are the specials nights. "For nights that might be slow, we give specials," Johnson said. "Also we try to run special theme nights like the Southern California trip night, for example." Johnson hoped that for the rest of the year the Bar cot~ld have a weekly happy hour, running from 4 to 6 p.m. Friday nights would be for ladies and Saturday nights would be Date Night. Johnson explained, "Anybody who comes with a date will get a free drink--both of them.'' 
"When we have a special," Huttinger added, "it does reduce our income. But we still try to keep above the break even point, though.·· 
"Plus our promotions have been in­creased this year.'· Huttinger added. Huttinger said the bar advertises at least twice a week. 
Dancing has been a new addition to the Bar this year. O'Connell told of the effo~t to make the Bar into a place where sentors can dance. "This year, we had some guys come in to play records," he said. "Even a 'disco-light' system has been added. We've also experimented with live enter­tainment too." 
So the Senior Bar is not just another "drinking place." "It's not just another bar." O'Connell maintains. "It's a clean place. It makes an attempt to have some class. Most seniors respect the place. We have a tough carding policy for the seniors. And as long as the seniors are there, we don't have problems because they feel it's their place." 
' 


In all, without the Alumni club designa­tion, the Senior Bar would not be able to 
receive  a  liquor  license.  "That's  the  
purpose  of calling  it  the  Senior-Al umni  
Club,"  O'Connell  stated.  "They  (the  

alumni) give us a status or we wouldn't be here." 
Profits and innovations 

The Bar is a non-profit organization. Huttinger emphasized, again, that the purpose is "to break even or better." 
"From September until last January our profit was $900," Huttinger said. "all the money has been re-invested into the Bar. This includes other renovations, equip­ment and the public address system." 
Although expenses vary from month to month, business has been more consistent this year, according to Johnson. "This is probably due to the fact that people bought more Senior Bar cards," O'Connell ex­lained. 
Kitchen Prose and Gutter Rhyme 
If nothing else, lan Anderson has proved to be resilient and tough-skinned during his long tenure as genius domus of the scrappy Jethro Tull; indeed, he has survived--and, at times, effectively ridi­culed--the numerous potshots which literally-oriented music critics have fired his way since the days of the universally­scorned A Passion Play. Occasionally







r----F'\1--..
NEED LOW-COST 
I

I I. 
I 
TRANSPORTATION?I We can help. Contact: 
I 

Auto Driveaway Co. 
674-9786 
1 
Deposit Required Returned at Destination --Must be 21.-­

..I I ______..1I 
ND-SMC THEATRE TRYOUTS 
Fiddler On The Roof 
Singers-Actors-Dancers Sun Feb. 27, 5 -9 pm Mon Feb. 28, 7 -1 Opm In 0' Laughlin Aud. 
By Appointmenr Only­
call L84 -41 41 
Audition Materials Available SPDR Off. Rm. 110 Moreau (SMC) SPDR Off. Washington Hall (NO) 
OPEN TO ALL ND-SMC STUDENTS 
justified in their sweeping condemnation of Anderson's highly esoteric lyrics, these journalists have unfortunately overlooked the two outstanding factors contributing to Tull's immense success: the eclectic and forceful quality of the music itself, and the undaunted expertise of the individual musicians in the band. 
In the latest Tull offering. Songs from the Wood, the maestro of English rock makes a calculated departure from both his image as the cynical, rebellious, grizzled rocker (promulgated for the most part in Aqualung and the recent Too Old to Rock'n Roll) and the confines of a lyrical stance which, once commercially appealing. has since deteriorated into an unwieldy con­glomeration of misplaced profundities. 
In the pleasant, cheery, Songs from the Wood, Anderson has traded in his sneering defiant heavy-metal sound of Too Old for the marching snares and light-tempo flutes and whistles of a pied piper out of Ye Olde England. l'he album boasts of the Joyous spirit of domestic bliss-­
Too much hurry ruins a body 
I'll sit easy; fan the spark 
And write this love song 
As I all too seldom do --and incorporates the imagery of nature ("Life's long celebration is here") into a view of love and ancient, earthy wisdom. With the possible exception of "Hunting Girl" (a catchy tune about the subtleties of sadistic passion), there is nothing here to offend; ideed, Anderson seems to go a bit cornball in his homage to the simple pleasures of country existence: 
Let me bring you love from the field Poppies red and roses filled with summer rain To heal the wound and still the pain 
There is also present some interesting vocal experimentation. most notably on the title song and on "Ring out Solstice Bells" in which Anderson overdubs his own vocals in an overlapping chorus pattern. More often than not, this innovation works nicely; only on the hoarse "Jack-in-the­Green" does the singing seem uninten­tionally rough and unpolished. 
Martin Barre on electric guitar and lute. John Evans on synthesizer and Barriemore Barlow on drums. marimba. and glocken­spiel. and marimba complement Anderson admirably in a bid for creating the whimsical. inviting atmospheres of old England. Tull displays an embarrassing lack of discipline. however. in the ambit­ious "Pibroch (Cap in Hand)" which all but destroys the contrived simplicity of the rest of the album by layering on a repetitive, bothersome electric guitar riff. 
The production work is thorough and immaculate, indicative of Anderson's total control over the creative process; the timing and arrangement of a song as complex as "Cup of Wonder" is achieved impressively through the artisitic discipline of both the flautist and his engineer, Robin Black. This quality production makes Songs from the Wood believable and accesible, not only to lull's solid fan support, but even to those who share oly a passing fancy for the pretensions of sophisticated English glitter rock. 
Th critics might pan this effort, as they have others of comparable virtue; however. in this case, their dismal pontifications willbe due to an acute lack of appreciation of: 
all things refined... Galliards and lute songs Served In chlllig ale: A singer of these ageless times With kitchen prose and gutter rhymes. 
by Scott Appleby 
this friday and every friday s:1 s mass & supper 


·.,I 
The Truth Behind Financial Aid 
by Drew J. Bauer 

With the average cost of the private four year university at $4568 a year, almost doubled that of a decade ago, more and more parents are finding out that they cannot afford the complete cost of an education for their children. 
"I think that most of the people here can gather enough money together to get through Notre Dame," said June McCaus­lin, director of Financial Aid. "And for the people who ·are having problems with coming up with the money, that is why we are here. We are in the business of getting these people through who wouldn't be able to afford it otherwise." 
Notre Dame is very selective in dealing out its financial aid. Articles in several newspapers aroung the country have praised the university for having "62.3 percent of N.D. students get aid." How­ever, the facts of the entire aid program make this figure sound misleading. 
Notre Dame Scholars 
Only 13 percent of students at Notre Dame receive some form of University­administered scholarship, a scholarship that for many does not meet all the needs of the student. In the 1975-76 school year, these grants delved out a total of $1,104,786 to qualified students. Of this total, $893,561 came from the endowed funds of the University and $221,225 came from current contributions. No students but Notre Dame scholars can receive this money. 
Each year, the Committee on Scholar­ships designates about 200 entering stu­dents as Notre Dame Scholars. "We designate the top 10-15 percent of the freshman class as outstanding students," said Director of Admissions John T. Goldrick. "But these Scholars do not necessarily receive money. Once we select them, we send their names over to the Financial Aid Office (F AO) and the people there determine whether they qualify for aid." 
A student who was not chosen a scholar in his freshman year may reapply each year while at Notre Dame. An application must be submitted by March 1, and notification of awards will be made by April 15. 
"We promise the scholars that if they have a need, we will try and meet that need with scholarships, loans, jobs, et cetera. Some scholars only get the certificate we award to all Scholars. Others (about SO percent) get a complete aid package fitted to their need," Goldrick added. 
Over half of the endowed money the University woday to finance qualifying the Scholars came from the estate of Florence Daily, ''She was a woman who w~ never knew and without a reason for doing it 
besides her being Catholic,'' according to Fr. Jerome J. Wilson, Executive Admini­strator of Physical Plant and vice president in charge of business affairs at the time the will was settled. Mrs. Daily left about $9 million in Eastman Kodak stock to the University. 
"The will required that the money be used for scholarships for the needy," Wilson said. But, added that the will did not require,.that the ~o.ney only go to the . Scholars. That dectsto~ was pr~babl1, m~de by the Scholarshtp Commtttee, Wdson added. 
The current contribution scholarship funds come from alumni clubs, corpora­tions and provate sources that the FAO administers. 
Grants 
The office also awards grants-in-aids to needy minority students from a special $3 million endowment fund established in part with proceeds from the 1970 Cotton Bowl. Also an emergency fund for seniors was recently created to alleviate special personal situations for seniors. The money for this fund was donated by the 1976 Senior Oass. 
The University participates in the Sup­plemental Educational Opportunity grants programs. These grants provide for annual stipends up to a maximum of Sl,000 for students with exceptional financial need. Selection of the grants is up to Notre Dame's Finacial Aid Office. The grants are not repayable, but the University is required to provide a matching contribu­tion in the form of a scholarship, Joan, or employment assistance. 
Loans 
As a part of the National Direct Student Loans programs, Notre Dame has a revolving fund of $800,000 to loan needy students. The fund started originally with "seed money" from the federal govern­ment, and has been increased with amounts each year from both the govern­ment and the University. 
Though the government decided to phase out its contributions this year, the office will continue to loan money to students McCauslin explained that money coming in from outstanding loans will be used towards the loans of new students. These loans carry an interest charge of three percent that starts nine months after a student completes his studies. 
"We must get the federal funds as an important source of help for our students,'' McCauslin said. "We are involved in trying to persuade the Congress to continue direct aid to the students of our university.'' 
She explained that the FAO does not actively support any of the legislation pending at the federal level that would give particular comfort to the hard-pressed middle class. The most sweeping of all was the bill former Sen. James Buckley's re-election bid. "Bills like that are always coming up in the Senate and they are always defeated," said McCauslin. 
Individual states can also guarantee loans made by private banks to students. Although terms will vary from state to state, they are generally similar to the federal program. 
Also, during the in-school period, the federal government will pay a11 the interest up to 10 percent for those students who are in financial need. After a student gradu­ates from school, the student will assume the total interest charge. Students who do not qualify for federal interest benefits may borrow, but they must pay all interest on the loan. 
Students found it easy not to repay such loans by declaring personal bankruptcy. Banks across the country refused to issue students loans, even with the government Thursday, February 24, 1977 
the observer 

guarantee. So Congress in Oct. 1976 passed a law saying that a student couldn't declare bankruptcy until at least five years after graduation. 
ROTC 

Notre Dame is one of the few universities in the country to offer all four Reserve Officer Training Corps (ROTC) programs-­Army, Navy, Marine Corps and Air Force. About 380 students are registered in ROTC, receiving an average grant of $2,917. Notre Dame also has one of the largest number of ROTC scholarships awarded students in the country. 
All four services offer a four year scholarship that pays the tuition, books, fees and $100 a month subsistance. Some of the services also offer one-, two-, and three-year scholarships. 
The military Obligation is four years of active duty. Certain special programs such as pre-med and navigation involve a longer commitment. 
PCS 

The decision of who gets the aid in the above decision is really made by the College Scholarship Service (CSS). It is the CSS who processes the Parents' Confiden­tial Statement (PCS). From the PSC the Service determines whether a student qualifies for financial aid. 
''There is no cut-off point for someone who fills out a PCS," said McCauslin. ''There are a lot of myths floating around about who can qualify for aid that are not true. Don't make up your mind about whether you can qualify, fill our a PCS and see.'' According to figures published in a recent edition of Money Magazine, a family of three children and with no unusual debts and only modest assets and an income of $22,000 would have been expected in 1974 to provide 4,010 towards the student's educational costs. But after the liberalization, a family in 1976 would have been expected to provide only $2,160, a drop of about SO percent. 
The PCS must be filed for upperclass students by April 1. 
Student Employment 
About 1300 students, earning an average of $605 per year work for the University in the following categories: --People who correct homework for pro­f~ssors, work at the Notre dame publica­tions and other campus jobs and do not receive the common paycheck but have their earnings credited directly to tuition 
payments. --Personnel jobs, such as working in the dining halls, the laundry, the Huddle, and the ACC where the student receives weekly 
pavchecks. --The College Work Study Program, where t~e rederal Government provides part­ttme employment opportunities for needy students. 
On February 9, 1976, Fr. James T. Burtchael, sent a memo to members of the University about ''inadequate coordination regarding the assignment of employment opportunities to students." The memo went on to order that, "effective immedi­ately, all financial awards to students whet~er scholarships, grants-in-aid, stu~ dent JObs, credits, or other benefits, must 
8 Days to Heaven 9 Days to Hell

...................... 

Mishawaka Avenue at 30th 

Downtown So Bend Scottsdale Mall Telephone 288-8488 Telephone 233-1676 Telephone 291.4583 
need resumes in a 
SHOW TIMES -SHOWTIMES­STREISAND 
Fri. 6 :30·9 :00

hurry? 
Sat. & Sun. 1:45.4 :00·6 :30·9 :0(; 2:00-4:30·7:00-9:30
KRISTOFFFRSON 
g~ 
"l'betearw 
epreaAingt 
•nsty-pr•nls• 
the wiz of the printingbiz! 
rag bond 25-8 1/2 X 11 $2.55 
203 N. Main So Bend 289-697 
~ • ' f • I I I -I o # o o .. I o • 1 • 
be approved by the single agency respon-~ sible for the student. The memo was written in response to students who did not have financial need but who were able to secure student jobs with the University. 
More than a year after the FAO received the memo, students without need still receive jobs, while 3 percent with need could not obtain work. "You can't change the trandition of SO years in 6 months,'' said McCauslin "You must remember that this is atransition period, things will not work right this soon." 
Although the memo gave the responsi­bility to FAO for approving all applications for student jobs, they will not obtain the complete authority to appoint the students until July 1, 1977. This is the first year that student jobs will be awarded through this office," said margaret Almeida, of FAO. ''It is our view that jobs should be awarded according to needs." But Almeida further explained that last year and this year jobs were awarded to people without need because some students had skills matching the job, while a student with need was not qualified to do the work. This year, students without need to be re-appointed to the same job they held the year before because of their experience. 
After July 1st if a student name comes here on the Student Employment comes here on the Student Employment form and that person doesn't have financial need, and unless there is a great reason for it, that form is not going to be processed and that person is not going to get that job," Almeida concluded. 
McCauslin stated that the FAO keeps track of all grants and jobs to prevent someone from concealing an outside source of income. Also, students are required to report any source of financial aid received from the University. The Observer has learned that several students who work at businesses in South Bend did not tell this to the F AO, so that they can receive all of their ''financial aid package.'' 
As part of her attempt to control student appointments, Almeida tried to secure the right to approve students who work at the Campus Press, a part of the Student Union. "I objected," said Joe Bury, head of the Campus Press. "First, she wanted the right to approve the next head of the press on a financial need basis. Then she wanted me to only. hire people with need.'' According to Bury, after a lengthy conversation, Almeida backed down and only asked that if a job was open, they give it to a person with financial need. ''There is some skill involved with these jobs and not everyone can do them. I think that it was wrong for them to have involved themselves in something that they have no business being in. Its like if you worked a job in South Bend and the financial office was trying to butt in.'' 
Bury said that Almeida finally agreed that the Student Union is independent of the University and that she didn't have any control over their appointments. Also, Bury said that Almeida considered a person working at Campus Press and another job under the control of the student Employment office as holding two jobs. This would result in the money a person made at Campus Press be deducted from the total amount of their ''Financial Aid Package." 
2 
THERE MUST FOREVER DEA 
GUARDIAII4 AT THE th£~TE FROM HELL... 

senllnel [tl]oo 
1:45,3:45,5:45,7:45,9:45 
.. 

.'· . . ... 

*The Observer 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's 
The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. ltdoes not necessarily reflect the policies of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters are the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of 'the community, and letters are encouraged to promote the free expression of varying opinions on campus. 
aisle. The bread-box sized machine 
Thur~riay, February 24, 1977 
between us was sending a light 
voltage through pins in our ears. 
-· --'" 

We were experiencing the relative­
ly new heroin detoxification treat­
ment, acupuncture. 
It has been several weeks now 
since i students have come back 
commentary 
We've Seen it Before 
from ,their Christmas vacations. Most of us are back into the grind,
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiipat hanifi_n_ 
studying books, doind what we can 
Box Q 
Martha L. Fanning

Business Manager Tom Fronczak 
Notre Dame Fred Herbst
Advertising Manager Mike Miller 
Ind. 46556 Tom Byrne
Photo Editor Tony Chifari • 
Another student body presiden­tial race has started. The poobahs have gathered at the gates; they are off and running, spewing posters and promises before them. Somehow, it's all quite boring. We have seen it all before. 
Every year the same issues are wrangled over --communication, contact between students and stu­dent government, activism, exper­ience, social life, student rights. Every year the same rhetoric is tossed about. Every year much the same platforms make much the.. same suggestions: e.g. a weekly column in The Observer, a newslet­ter (neither of which ever seem to get written), more committees with pan-poobah representation, more social spaces, more student power and rights. Each year the winner starts out with the same high you look at them. The things you can see, the places to go, the
~!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! p . 0 . B0 X Q!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! feelings you feel, and most of all, 
Dear Editor: 
I am writing in reference to Monte Towle's February 4th article on recruiting. In it, he implies that the University of Texas turned in the University of Oklahoma for recruiting violations because the Longhorns had lost to the Sooners for three consecutive years. That's about as trivial a reason as Woody Hayes's turning in Michigan State for having lost to the Sp"rtans. There are deeper reasons concern­ing why the Sooners were turned in, two which stand out cleaf}y. 
First, it is well known that-more than sixty percent of the Sooner football squad comes from the Lone Star state. OU comes to Texas and in trying to sign up players, finds heavy competition with the domi­nant Southwest Conference teams. It's hard to lure football players away from their native state, especially in a state which pos­sesses the likes of such teams as Texas, Texas A&M, Texas Tech, Baylor, and Houston. 
In light of this challenge, the Sooners have to offer a little more than "a University that the football 
team  can  be  proud  of.''  The  
Sooners don't always  use  under-,  
handed  methods  to  recruit  in  

Texas, but there have been 
:.,h 
Cometowherethe 

Krunchis! 

Shrimp <'ifi~\~-:~ Fish 
. -;.:.,~ & 
......,,~ 

Chicken ?: .;• _, Chips Krunch-Pup..~"'t' ;~
~,-:._ Chowder F~EE refill/·
,···

• on all · ~ 
1 DRINKS ·-F~ 
1733 N. Ironwood Drive Corner of Ironwood & State Road 23 
Val Zurblls Pat Hanifin Tim O'Reiley Bob Mader Maureen Flynn Marti Hogan Kathy Mills Barb Breitenstein Don Reimer 

hopes, which as always, are ne~er met. And each year it seems we have circled back to· the same place. 
No wonder students are so apathetic about the election. No wonder so many feel that student government is a waste of time. ; 
But the same old issues are still issues .. They remain because the fundamental problems of student government remain. The problems remain because they are appar­ently built into the nature of things here. 
The SBP's job is to be chief spokesman for the students and to organize student services. How can he be chief spokesman for studerits too apathetic to say anything? Most people here speak loudly enough to be heard only when they are mad about some special issue, e.g. the 
I 



opinion --­
EDITORIAL BOARD Thomas O'Neil Editor-in-Chief Dan Sanchez Managing Editor 
Take the Plunge
Chris Smith l Asst. Managing Ed. Cregg Ban~s 1Executive Editor 
ExecutivP Editor 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiim ike richter 
Editorial Editor Features Editor 
I was in the Haight-Ashbury 
district of San Francisco. Lying on a
Exec. News Editor 
table-like bed, eyes closed, in a
Campus Editor 
dark, attic room, I was barely
St. Mary's Editor 
aware of Dr. William Pone telling
News Editor 
Jack Ahern, a C.C.U.M. repre­
News Editor 
sentative in San Francisco about
Copy Editor 
treatment used to relax heroin
Production Editor 
addicts coming off the drug cold
Sports Editor 
turkey. A friend was on a table similar to mine , directly across the 
Contributing Editor 
take a look for yourself. You'll see that to most of these people it was more than a cold shower. It's like high-diving into an icy pool after spending an hour in a roasting sauna, 
It is the Urban Plunge. 

A "plunge" is a 48 hour immer­sion experience into a city. Talk about interplanetary exploration. The difference between the reality of a suburb and the reality of an inner city parish gives one pause. Descriptions here by me would certainly be insignificant. One can easily get a good idea of what went on in different cities, and can earn what it is all about by reading those student reports in the reserve book room. Some of the stories are really 
wild. 

The plunge is an integral func­tion of CILA, (they sell Christmas cards). I am only one of the 125 students who heard about it, and was curious enough to fill out the forms, and go. For most, the experience was a whole new world opening to challenge them. Nerve endings were touched. As a result, we have new sensitivities. The memories, etched clear, concisely in our minds will not be quickly forgotten. 
CILA is responsible. 

CILA does more than sell Christ­mas cards. More and more people are discovering this. As a result, they are seeing things they haven't seen before and doing things they didn't know they could do. Over and over, people get the funny feeling that they are getting more than they can give. With CILA, that's perfectly understandable. 
' 
The urban plunge is only one facet of CILA, but it is quite an experience. Anyone who knows a "plunger" knows what I am talking about, but you don't know what you are missing. Marty Mellet (1035) or Fran Evens (8004) can give you information and numbers to call. CILA is well worth your while. There are at least 125 plungers who will attest to that. They will never be the same again. Next Christ­mastime, live a little, take the ' plunge! 
co
IICY,KIO.' 

EJeSMAJO; Ql
KI!J! 

.,_
I 

--<; 
.... I~
-,: 
I j

c: • 
a.. 
(1) Q 
c: 
calendar. The swift turnover in student government is a great obstacle for any president wanting to make big changes (and they all do): by the time he has learned the job and has laid the groundwork for his projects his term of office runs out and he must leave everything to a novice successor. Everyone work­ing under him is new in their jobs, I too. No organization so staffed can 
avoid inefficiency and confusion. 
The usual platitude is that the apathetic student is wrong. But listening to the same old campaign one more time I wonder if he is not right in thinking little can be done. At least he poses a challenge to everyone in the race this year: Are there any new solutions to the same old problems, any suggestions not made before, even any rhetoric not heard before? 
to enjoy what free time we find. Things are mostly the same as they were before break, for most people. 
There are some however, for whom things; are different. They think about everyday Notre Dame things, but know of other lifestyles. I am , one of; the people who think about less comfortable lifestyles than we are able to afford here. I spent 48 hours in the downtown district of San Francisco on an urban plunge. 
Thanks to CILA, (Council for 
International Lay Apostlate ... so 
THAT'S what it stands fori) and 
the national organization, Catholic 
Committee on Urban Ministry, I 
was able to experience the tip of 
the tip of an iceberg. 
Forty-eight hours in a city by 
your home may not seem like much 
of a life-changer, but it could be. 
The catalysts are there to see, if 
the wonderful people you meet all 
The second reason is a morhl had lost some games to the Sooners come together and hit you like a one. Someone lied about Kerry is ridiculous. As it stands now, cold shower on a hot day. It could Jackson's academic record, which Oklahoma is under investigation be just the thing to wake you up to would have allowed him to play again for more NCAA violations. a life you had never considered, or college football. The idea of an This only goes to prove a fact which known about before. athlete being allowed to study arid is well-known in the Southwest and If you don't believe me, go into compete on the basis of a lie would Big-8 Conferences: the fact that the library and at the reserve book cause any ethical coach to do t~e Oklahoma has the best football room, ;ask for a couple of copies of right thing. 1 players that money can buy. the reports students participating 
To say that Texas turned in in th~ plunge were required to Oklahoma because the Longhor~s Diego Pena write. 1Even if you do believe me, 
H&Y, JIM-YtAH, I 61/tSS 
GIVe HIM HE'sGOT ~~~ 
YOU6tTTIN' I AM, 808. YUT 
A GIJITM, THe APT/TUP/3, v~ c~v 
tXC/TtiJ 1 FEEL so U('IPRC­
7}10/J6H. HeAL-I<#Illl r1-. 
A80t/TTH& PA~~ YOUk'IKJ(JJ? 
SOUN05 UK& AWHOle ~ 
KIO YeT? I MEAN, a/HATAM 
kJ/'fTI.IM SliCTKN. ITS ,;;/
/ "" I GOIN6 70 /J(J 
' IJRJVIN6 JeNNY ~ J 
IUITH A KIP? : 
CRAZY! 
/ 
-, __ 

Thinkilg abOut\a NEW surr 

!ATTENTION GIRLS 
--· .L-----·­

for '~uation & htervieYis? 
$50 1st PRIZE
BRING YO~R STUD~NT I .D. 
-I ' Contestants wanted to enter 
---i -

DUBtJNHOUSE 
FAJ WALLY'S Wet T-Shirt Contest
. 
-.

I \fora l 
Midnight , March 5th 
------~

10ofo 1Discount 
Call 277 -0570 for deta'ds
I ­
, 

L
Custolralfdb:ld 3 Piece
I , 
I 

Suitings &Shirts 



~No:
$175 to $ 2i'.5 depending on your 
choice 1of material 
Short on Cash?--pay half. now and the ofher half at graduation--no ' interest charges 
SMC 
THEATRE
Grand Opening Apri/15 
$2.50 ($2Std, Fac) 
' 

284-4176Suite 2312 Am. Natl. Bank Bldg. 11 am-6pm Ph. 288-6565 






THEY 
Polish playwright 

Stanislaw Witkiewicz' hilarious farce on human existence 
FEB. 25, 26, Mar. 3,4,5 at 8:00 p.m. 
0'Laughlin Auditorium 


Rock news 
Boston Boston and special guest Rich Derringer will appear in concert on Monday at 7:30 p.m. in the ACC. 
Tickets are $5, $5.50 and S6.50. They are on sale now at the ACC Box Office, Boogie Records, Just for the Record, Record Joint in Niles and the Suspended Chord. 
Springsteen Bruce Springsteen is appear­ing tomorrow at the Purd~e University Elliot Hall of Mustc. There are tickets still available and they may be purchased from the Purdue box office in West Lafayette and will be sold until showtime. 
Haughton speaks 
[continued fro~ page 2] for each other to show how much they love each other. But to love someone very much can be painful because you suffer what they suffer and you go through a kind of death to self in order to achieve a closer love," she said, noting this was the perfect expression of loving ser­vice. She described being faithful as ~ the acceptance of any type of hardship or difficulty in the service of the beloved. Haughton, mother of ten, has written over 30 books and partici­pates in extensive lecture series. Haughton's books focus upon themes of marriage, sexuality, religious education, family life and the relation of theology to these and other experiences. Haughton will speak again Sun­day night at 8 p.m. in the Memorial Library auditorium. She will dis­cuss "Marriage: Romance to Hero­ism." 
NOTICES 
Wl'ly pay $10.00 for personalized, astrological birth charts from imper­sonal computers? Detailed, typed profiles-$5.00! Call Pat 7339. 
Greyhound bus to Chicago leaves main circle every Friday at 5:45p.m. Call Tom at 8338 tor reservations and further info. 
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND $20-150. 1 day wait. 1 percent interest. Due in 30 days. LaFortune Basement. M-F 11:15-12:15. 
Need typing? Executary Inc., Pro­fessional Typing Service. $.85 a page. 232-0898. 
Will teach you flute in your spare time. Call Beth 8112. 
USED BOOKS. BOOK BARN. 1 mile north of Notre Dame. 272-5520. 
Accurate, fast typing. Mrs. Donoho. 232-07-46. Hours: 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. 
But you've got to have friends. Gay Community of Notre Dame. Phone No. 8870 Fri. & Sat. 
California Street String Band for hoedowns, parties, dances. Call 288-7732. 
FOR RENT 
Office space for rent. Offices of varying sizes located in existing Administration Building. Excellent location for new businesses. Rent is negotiable. If interested, please call 3472. 
5 bedroom house, good condition, renting for fall or by room for summer. Walk to campus. Call 259-7-488 after 5. 
For rent next school year. 9 month lease two furnished houses, 4 bed­room and 5 bedroom. Near N D. Off-Street parking. Call: 234-2626. 
4 bedrooms, living room, dining room, kitchen. UTILITIES PA 10. $100 PER MONTH. CALL OSCAR 233-1850. 
Two bedroom house to rent. Sum­mer and-or school year. 1012 Eddy Street. 5120 mo. plus utilities. Call OODlES HARRIS at 232-8563. 
LOST & FOUND 
Found: Single key marked Taylor X-7. Found in SEcornerotnear 0-2. Phone 1251-Chris. 
Someone left a calculator at Darby's Place Thursday night. If you can identify it call Mike Cleary at 7735. Leave a message. 
Lost: G~en, white and blue ski cap. Call H.C. 1795. Reward. 
......~~·~---.-...~....a....•cs~----~------~-----s~--------~--~... ,. .......... ~--~,~~~~~----------~.. .... ~...2 
Thursday, 
February 24, 1977 the observer
Klassen announces events on SMC so,cial calendar 
by Cathy Cowhey 
Plans for live entertainment in the St. Mary's Coffee Shop,· the showing ofBlazing Saddles, and an April Beer Garden were finalized at a meeting of the St. Mary's Social Commission Tuesday night. 
Marry Klassen, social commis­sioner, announced these spring semester events and noted that other events are in the planning stages. 
Due to the ''very good recep­tion" of live entertainment in the St. Mary's Coffee Shop, perfor­mers will be presented every other week until the end of semester. Friday, March 4 marks the appear­ance of a jazz combo and guitarist from 9 p.m. to 12 a.m. Potato chips and dip are free. 
On March 3 and 4. the Mel Brooks film Blazing Saddles willbe shown in Carroll Hall of the Madeleva building. Admission wi11 
MON-THURS 7:00 9:15 FRI 5:30 7:45 10:00 SAT 1 :00 3 :15 5:30 7:45 10:00 SUN 2:30 4:45 7:00 9:15 
Gene Wilder 


SILVER STREAK 
RATED PG 
Found: Pair of glasses near South 
Dining  Hall.  2-3  weeks  ago.  Call  
8098.  
Please  return  my  2  Engineering  

notebooks taken by mistake from North Dining Hall C-D L.obby. Need notes desperately tor tests. Call Mike 3310. 
Lost: Watch. Please call 1404. 
Lost: A pair of dark brown leather gloves on 2·16-77 on shuttle or SMC. Call 4-5196. 
WANTED 

My buddy Harry Callahan needs two GA tickets for San Francisco or else. Call 1279. 
2 girls need ride to San Antonio for spring break. Will share driving and expenses. Call 4-5115. 
Need tix tor San Francisco game. Ca .. Martha 4-4819. 
Need ride to Binghamton or Ithaca New York. Share driving & S. Call leave Mar. 11. Call Jill 1333. 
Wanted: Ride to Bloomington-Nor­mal, Ill. (ISU)on Fri., Fet). 25. WiH share expenses. Mike 3264. 
Need at least two (2) LaSalle tix. Please! Call Marylou 6865. 
Needed: 2 LaSalle tickets. Call EGG 1655. 
DESPERATELY DESIRE 2 or 4 GA fix for LASALLE. Call Dan 8953 or 2195. 
Wanted: 2 or 3 GA tickets for: LaSalle. Call Kathy 1361. 
Need 4 GA tix for LaSalle. Phone 6153. 
I need 1 LaSalle tic. Dave 6864. 
Need Saturday night Wisconsin tickets. Will buy or trade Friday tickets for them. Kevin 289-6929. 
Need 3 GA fix to LaSalle. $$$. Call 8200. 
Need ride to Houston for spring break. S Dave 1765. 
Need 2 GA fix for LaSalle game. Call Mike 8708. 
!desperately need a ride to' Tampa­St. Pete's area for spring break. I'll share driving & expenses. Call Flo Freely 6780. 
Wanted: One Wisconsin hockey ticket for Saturday. Call Tom at 288-9916. 
Wanted: Ride to and from Dallas for spring break. Split driving and expenses. Call Ben 288-7523. 
NEED RIDE TO LOUISVILLE, KY. ANY WEEK END. CALL CLIF 8421. 
Classified Ads 
Need a ride to Ft. Lauderdale for spring break. Will share driving & expenses. Call Pat 1514. 
Wanted: Rides to Ft. Lauderdale tor break. Call rian 1589 or 1516. 
3 GA tix to San Francisco. Will pay top$. Call 283-8863. 
Earthquakes will hit if I don't get 4 San Francisco tickets! Call Fred at 287-2771. 
Ride needed to Milwaukee-Mar­quette. Can leave Feb. 25 after 12 noon. Call 4-5170. 
Need 4 GA LaSalle basketball tickets. Call Mary Kay 6874. 
Wanted: Femlae graduate student to babysit and sleep over a tew nights per week. Will pay. Call Mary 272-3656. 
HELP us get to the beach!! 2 girls need a ride to ft. Lauderdale for break. Call 7-401 or 3725. 
Desperately need two Wisconsin hockey tickets for March 5. Call Paul 8550. 
Wanted: ride to FLORIDA, will leave early (Tues. 8th) Chris 1797. 
Needed ride to Cleveland 25 Feb. 77, Fri. $$ John 8720, Dan 8743. 
Need 2 GA tickets for LaSalle game. 
Big SS. Call Jim 8767.  
Help-1 GA tickets needed for Francisco game. Kathy 4-5206.  San  
Get rich quick! Sell me 4 Francisco tickets. Ray 1417.  G  San  
3  foxy  women  need  ride  to  Ft.  

Lauderdale. Will share expenses and driving. Call 4-4006 anytime. 
Please help! Male friend needs place to stay March thru August. Call 284-5720. 
Ride desperately needed to Conn. area tor spring break. Will gladly share expenses and driving. Please call Marie, 4-4369. 
Two girls need ride to Ft.Lauderdale for spring break. Call 4-4291 or 4-4378. 
Wanted: Rug -12 X 14. Call 4-4122 Charyl 
FOR SALE 

10-speed bike. Good condition. $75. 287-2586. 
'68 Olds Vista Cruiser. A-1 condition 67,000 miles. $750.00 or offer. Bill after 9 p.m. 233-1993. 
7" gold couch, fair condition, will dicker. Call 255-3287. 
--------;----------­
TELEPHOTO LENS: 200mm f3.5 Soligor T-4 with mount for Nikon, Nikkormat. Includes sun shade & Tiffen UV filter. 5100. Can be adapted to Canon, Minolta, Pentax, Olympus, etc., with a T-4 mount. Price without Nikon mount: 590. Call 18-45. Ask for Tony. 
1 pair of 2-way walnut bookshelf speakers,1 ft X 1.5 ft. $40, Phone 289-8098. 
AUDIO OUTLET: top name stereo equipment. Wholesale. Call 283­1181. 
FOR SALE: 2 pairs of Boston tickets. Good seats. Call Steve 1478. 
PERSONALS 
Dave Caron, Since this is your first personal, 1 want it to be a memor­able one. That is, if all the alcohol you've consumed at Senior Bar hasn't damaged your brain cells (the memory ones, I mean)! Your Friend­ly Bartender(ess) 
To all hospital visitors, callers, cast-signers, personal-senders, etc. Thanks a lot! "A friend in need..." Murz 
Roses are red, Violet's are blue, Nina's are big Sheila's are not. 

Pat R It's not the inefficiency of the typist, it's the inadequacy of the ad-layout man! Your Faith­ful Friend(?) 
Harsh! Definitely harsh! G 
----------~---­
OK: Will you ever become a pro, or must you remain "Ever Green"? Esther & John Norman 
For your free basketball decanter of "Unforgettable" cream sachet, call your Avon Rep-Randy 8710. 
CCC, Have a good day!!! Guess Who
----L-----------­
Dear Peter Sweeney, Have you thought about renting your boats now that Notre Dame is full of Du Lacs? 103 Walsh 
Feeling depressed? ND-SMC Hot­-line. 4-4311 open nights. 
Deebles & Hank, Thanks tor stop­ping by Tuesday!!! Now it's our tum, huh?. G & C 
Three girls need ride to Ft. Lauder­dale over spring break. Call 4687. 
Dave: Keep on skating, but "Watch Closely, Now", dear. Barbra 
103 Walsh, Thanks for the hospital­ity. Tonya & Rita 
Mercer: You have thl' uoliest tace. Show your Uf!IY tare to ·all of your friends. You know who 
Rafael-1 don't believe in you either! GOD 
Cake Mix Dater, This is just a personal to give you a personal. Didn't have a whole lot to say. Buttless 
Spika, I will destroy you with the theory of automation I created to keep myself from loving you. Tefuan 
Who cares about the Quiets? Where's a high roller? Chop off those Sticky fingers and knock off the chairmen of the board---here come the Wild Bunch. There'll be a hot time . ton ite!! 
davekleer: Does a busted wing mean you are a "Crippled Crow"? Esther Hoffman Howard 
Dear Yon and McDuff, Thinking of you with love, Sandy 
Girls wanted tor SAT WALLY'S wet T-shirt contest. Call 277-0570. 
Nancy C., I can tell that the roomies stick together-hope it's not too close. The shift key is the little white key in the bottom row. See if you can find if next time. PRR 
Dear??? Yes, I still swim at the Rock. Yes, I still read the personals. Beth knows me too. Nancy from Lauderdale 
Dear 203 Breen-Phillips, The Valen­tine carnation is an attempt to increase your Goodwill for your assets have been undervalued and deserve to be appreciated to current market value. The Accounting Sec­ret Admirer 
Thanks to all submitting bids for the statue of Fr. Sorin. He went for $400. Sorry Colleen, S1.31 just didn't make it. 
Buster! Watch out for Leslie. Reags, Mac, Phil 
Pat Me, Happy 22nd. Where will 23 be. NY? Indianapolis? or... ? MB 
Party-Notre Dame Apartments 820 No. 1B Friday, Greg, Larry, Tom, Joe 

-
Happy Hour Friday at the LIBRARY Meet SBP-SBVP candidates, J.P. RUSSELL and JOHN GEPPERT. 
R.M. Fantastick, Tulips are white, promises nil though L. C. main't love you, The world cain'f stand still. The Woman 
Bob O'Hara is going to have the apartment to himself on February 
25. We are now taking reservations for interested women.-Phone him at 272-3950. 
Good Ship, Dream not at the helm. Don't turn your back on t-he com­pass. Be awake to the hitching tiller, tor approachinfl stern is a real good ship that's not yet beo un to fi~ht. 

be $1. · Show times will be announced when they are estab­lished, and the commission hopes to offer a late show after the hockey game Friday night. 
A Beer Garden will be held Friday, April 29, in Regina Hall from 9p.m. to 2 a.m. There will be a band upstairs and beer down­stairs. Described by Klassen as a "last fling before finals," the Beer Garden is open to all, though only those with 21 I.D.'s will be served. 
Klassen reported that more of the St. Mary's social calender will be 
announced  as  plans  are  finalized  
for  other  tentatively  scheduled  
events.  

Personnel alters phone number 
Due to a change in its telephone system, the Notre Dame Personnel Office has replaced its previous phone numbers with a single new one: 283-2221. 

Ends Ton ite---.
I
silver Streak 7 :00-9:30 

STARTS FRIDAY

-u~ 31 North -277-1522 
Weekdays 7:15-9:20 Sat-Sun 1 :15 3:15 
5:1 s 7:15 9:20 

SPECIAL-Fri. & Sat. Only Midnite Shows! 
W RBR and Forum Cinema Present... The Cannes Jury Prize Award Film... 
R 


"TAKING OFF" 
LYNN CARLJNA....,BUCK HENRY Reduced Price 

. '· ... 
I 11l ' 
I ' 
-

the observer Thursday, February 24, 1977
8 






Irish romp; another_s~ep to NCAA's 
by Tom Powanda Sports Writer 

With an NCAA bid just a few 
victories away, Notre Dame's bas­
ketball team put away a stubborn 
Loyola of Chicago last night with a 
111-86 decision. The score how­
ever does not reflect the overall 
outlook of the game. 

With what resembled a pick-up 
game from the streets of the city, 
the Irish were hardpressed for the 
win and for the second time in less 
than a week they were beaten on 
the boards by the physical Ram­
blers. 

Disaster almost struck the Irish 
again as Toby Knight left the 

game with just one minute gone in the first half with what appeared to be an ankle strain. With Knight missing from the line-up the Irish fell victim to two slam dunks by Loyola's John Hunter and found themselves on the short side of a 24-17 score. "Toby makes things happen on the boards,'' exclaimed Notre Dame's mentor Digger 
Phelps, "we need him in there." 
When Knight finally did return to the line-up with less than 10 minutes to go in the half he turned things around. His foul shots with 
3:55 remaining in the first half gave Notre Dame the lead at 36-34 which they failed to relinquish for the remainder of the contest. 
Once again the press, combined with Phelps' array of defenses, took its toll on Loyola. Though repeatedly beaten in the first half, the lack of depth made the fast pace 
of the game too much for the 
Ramblers to handle. 
With a 46-42 lead at the half the Irish continued the pressure 'and built a commanding 11 point lead before Loyola took timeout. The run and gun style of play seemed to suit Notre Dame's Duck Williams as he scored a career high 30 points. Williams was 11 for 18 from the field while dropping in 8 of 1 t from the charity stripe. Both he and freshman Billy Hanzlik combined to score 10 straight Irish points to put them up by 21 with just 6:20 remaining in the game. 
Hanzlik was pleased with his performance as was Phelps. "In the beginning I was afraid to do anything for fear of being taken out," commented Hanzlik follow­ing the game. "The more time 1 played the more relaxed I became. Then I can do my thing on the court.'' On Hanzlik's performance in the game, Phelps replied, "Billy has become a very strong eighth man for us. He is ~mproving with each appearance." 
The shooting contest was not only restricted to the Notre Dame linenp. Loyola guards Tad Dufel­meier and Andre Wakefield com­bined for 38 points scoring 20 and 18 respectively. "Branning is just a freshman, they worked on him tonight,'' said Phelps of the point production by the Loyola guards. "That is why Dice was so valuable, he gave us things tht didn't show up in the statistics. Rich will improve but it will take time. 
Even . though. ~eaten m the 
reboundmg stat1st1cs Notre dame 
did get a strong effort from Dave 
Batton. With Knight injured and 
Bruce Flowers in foul trouble 
Batton went .of the boards and 
came away w1th 10 caroms along 
with 19 po~nts: nine of which were 
from the gtft hne. 
Though the Irish shot 52% from 
the floor t~ey were outgunned by a 
fine shootmg perforlll:ance by Loy­
ola who came away w1th 56% from 
the field. Turnovers were the 
downfall of the. Ramblers as th~y 
were I?ressured mto 2.0 faults wh1le 
the. Irtsh on!y had mne, seven of 
wh1ch were m the first half. 
. As a result of t?e press, Bran­
n~ng ca~e awa~ With three ste.als, 
mne ass1s~s tymg .a season h1gh, 
and 16 pomts commg from 5 of 9 
from the field while being perfect 
f~om th~ foul line connecting on all 
s1x of h1s attempts. . . 
Overall, t~e F1ghtmg Insh ~ut on 
a fine offensive p~rformance mt ~e 
second half placmg five men m 
double figures. Along with Wit­
li~m~· 30, Batton's 19 ~nd Bran­
mng s 16, ~trong offens1v~ games 
w~re also d1splaye~ by Kntght and 
B1lly P~terno scortng 12 and 13 
resoectlv~Iy. 

The victory . was the 1.8th for 
~otre Dame t~1s season wtth only . SIX defeats whtle the loss dropped :~yola' s record t.o a~ even .500 ~.tth both 12 v1ctone~ and 12 defeats_-~he next Insh B-Ball game IS th1s Saturday as Notre D.ame h?sts .LaSalle at the ACC. 
Tip-off ttme ts 1:00 p.m. 
Back injury fells IU's Benson 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. AP· Indi­ana center Kent Bensonwill be sidelined the rest of the season, his brilliant college career ended pre­maturely by a back injury, Coach Bobby Knight announced W ednes-. day. 
Benson, a 6-foot-11 All-Amer­ican, is under doctor's orders to remain at home in bed until his back heals. 
Benson. who has had r~curring back troubles for several years, re-injured it Sunday when he was knocked to the floor while drawing a charging foul from Purdue fresh­man Joe Barry Carroll in a Big Ten game at West Lafayette. The injury was diagnosed as massive bruising and swelling. 
"I think it's just some soreness that, with time and r.est, will not give him any problem," Knight 
said.  "I'm  not  concerned  as  to  
whether he' ll be able  to  play  or  
not.''  

"Even if he could play, we would never endanger his future by attempting to play him in this condition," Knight said. 
Indiana, 12-11 overall 7-7 in the Big Ten this year, wraps up its season with home games against Wisconsin on Thursday and North­western on Saturday, a final road trip to Iowa on Monday and the home fianle against Ohio State on March 5. 
Benson, who was Indiana's high school "Mr. Basketball" at New Castle in 1973. ends his college career as Indiana· s second-leading all-time scorer and rebounder, averaging 15.2 points and 8.1 rebounds in 14 games. He aver­aged 19.8 points a game overall and 21.1 points in Big Ten compet­ition this season, despite being double and triple-teamed much of the time. 
He was a first-team All-Ameri­can selected last year, when the 
Hoosiers rolled to an undefeated 
season en route to the NCAA 
championship. He was voted the . most valuable player in the national 
finals at Philadelphia. 
Benson's 1 , 7 40 career points ranks him only behind Don Schlundt, who scored 2,192 from 1952-55. Walt Bellamy is Indiana's all-time rebounding leader. 
With Benson out, the pivot chores likely will fall to 6-foot-9 ~;ophomore Jim Roberson and 6-11 freshman Derek Holcomb. 
Holcomb has been bothered with foot problems since Christmas and has seen limited action, averaging about eight minutes of play per game since the Big Ten season 
opened  Jan.  6.  Roberson  has  
averaged  six  minutes  of  playing  
time.  


Irish thine/ads gain victory 
by Laurie Reising Sports Writer 

t' The Notre Dame Track Team won their second in a row at the ACC Tuesday night as thev soundly defeated teams from Northern Illin­ois and Wayne State Universities. The Irish took top honors in eight of the fifteen events to give them a final total of 85 points. Northern Illinois placed second with 53 points and Wayne State third with 23 points for the evening. 
·l 
It was the long distance men who 
t had the spotlight as Notre Dame placed first in both the 1 mile and 2 mile runs and the mile relay. Freshman Kevin Kenny pulled another come from behind win in the last lap to finish with a time of 
4:17.1 in the mile run. Teammate Vanderkaat's time of 9:08.1 won him top honors in the 2 mile run. 
Sophomore Jeff Anderson equal­led his best time of 6.5 seconds as he clinched the 60 yard dash. The Irish harriers also won in the 300, 880, and 600 yard dashes and almost made a clean sweep of it in the 1000 meter run as Dave Gutschenritter, Kevin Kenny and Pete Burger placed first, second and third respectively. Juniors Arnie Gaugh and Chuck Wills tied 
· · ·· · .. y.· ... '®. 
· 

Bill_ ~anzlik's !ine defensive game helped the Irish take a 111-86 

dec1s1on last mght. 
It's getting down to the nitty-­gritty in Interhall basketball today, _ as the semi-finals in both divisions will be contested, as well as the losers bracket playoffs. . 
Zahm I will play Morri~sey I today at 8 p.m. at gym four to decide who will represent Divison 
I. In Division II, the semi-final 
The Notre Dame hockey team travels to Houghton, Michigan this week for a Thursday-Friday series with the Michigan Tech Huskies. The Irish remained second in the WCHA and third in the country following last weekend's series with Denver. Wisconsin has clinched first place in the WCHA with 48 points, the Irish are second with 38, and Michigan is third with 
32. Therefore, the Irish need only two points to clinch second place and a home-ice advantage for the 
[Photo by Debbie Krilich] 
match will feature Flanner III 
versus Pangborn II, today at 9 p.m. 
also at gym two. 

In the Division I losers bracket, 
Flanner I will face Fischer I, at 6 
p.m. 
and Division II will feature Stanford IV against Flanner IV, at 7 

p.m. 
Both of those matches will be held in gym two, also. 


first two rounds of the playoffs. 
Meanwhile, Michigan Tech is currently sixth in the league with 27 points, two points ahead of seventh-place Minnesota. After winning five consecutive games in early February, the Huskies have dropped three of their last four games. 
Both games will be broadcast live to South Bend on WNDU-AM (1490). Ted Robinson will handle the play-by-time with air time at 
7:55 p.m. both nights. 

The Knights Men's Hairstyling 
Tl!at yourself the month of February with a styled ha1rcut and blowstyle combination, and receive a free condition! It will give you back that natural sheen that the winter months have deprived you of. This is a $13.00 value for $8.50. 
Miss Jeanie 
~uttn'g ctC a~tle 
54533 TERHACE LANE Tues .. Wed . Sot 8 30 -5 30 Thurs. & Fri. 8 30 -8.30 PHONE 1.77 -I 691 
for first place in the high hurdles event with their times of 7. 7 seconds, Gough again tying his personal best. 
The Irish came very close in the pole vaulting_ event as freshman Perry Stow, out of neighboring Elkhart, just missed first place by 11• jnch as he cleared 15 feet 5 314 inches. 
Notre Dame met its match however in the shot put event in the form of Jerry Clayton from North­ern Illinois. Clayton, whose versa­tile talents have qualified him for 
ih£ (nbmiaJ 
Fancak£ ftous£ 
OUR SPECIALTY OVEN BAKED APPLE PANCAKES 
You'll be back for more 
US 31 (Dixieway North) in Ros.tland <Across from Holiday Inn) 
the Nationals in the shot put and 
also as an Olympic lifter, looked impressive as he hurled 55 feet 10 inches towards a first place finish. 
Coach Joe Piane said he was "pleased overall with his team's performance for the night," and "Was especially happy with one of the freshman's performances." 
The next Irish track meet will have the team travelling to Des Moines. where they will face Drake University March 5th. 




