---~-~-~ 

server 

an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's 
Monday, February 7, 1977


Vol. XI, N~!__ 
Controversy cited 
Erickson speaks on DNA 
by Marian Ulicny behind recombinant DNA experi-involved in working with starches Senior Staff Reporter ments. ''A new set of enzymes was and trying to find a better strain of discovered in the last few years bacteria," he continued. "We are 
Dr. Robert J. Erickson, assistant that recognize the sequence of just following continuing research faculty fellow in microbiology , nucleotides on a DNA molecule," to improve strains of bacteria that spoke on the recent controversy he stated, are not pathogenic and that have surrounding recombinant DNA "The enzymes break it with a been used in the food industry and research in the "Evolution, Ecolo­staggered but to fragment the the world for centuries." gy and Behavior" class on Friday. chromosome in a specific way. We "None of my work was secret," 
"One r of the difficult things can separate the fragments as size Eri_e_kson added. ''In fact, if you about a situation like this is that functions and isolate specific don't have this kind of sensational­somebody dreams up terms like genes." ism, this type of research is really 'recombinant DNA' that the lay­Using ligase, an enzyme that ties not that significant to most man knows nothing about," Erick­the fragments together, we can people." son told an audience that filled the cement together completely un-Following Erickson, Dr. Harvey Engineering Auditorium. related DNA's and add it back to a Bender, professor of biology, out­
Erickson, who is currently con­chromosome or bacterial cell.'' lined some possible future develop­ducting genetic research funded by Erickson explained. "Theoretically ments of DNA research. "There Miles Laboratories, commented on this allowt> us to put ahy genes we was a lot of excitement in the sections of the letter written by want into a bacterial cell." scientific community when we Jerry Rifkin of the People's Busi­One of the first experiments of learned of reorganizing enzymes," ness Commission (PBC). The this type was performed at Stan-he stated. "The therapeutic po­Jetter, circulated in several dorms, ford by Dr. Paul Berg who added a tential is obvious. For example, claimed Miles had a contract with cancer-causing virus to a bacterial could we take the normal gene the University for research "to cell. "Immediately, he realized responsible for producing insulin artificially produce novel 'forms of what he had done. He had created and transfer it to a diabetic to life'". a bacteria with the genes that could possibly correct the problem?" 
"I was never contacted by these possibly cause cancer, so he im-According to Bender, there are people," Erickson stated. "No­mediately destroyed it," Erickson also economic opportunities for body at Miles Lab was ever noted. genetic transfer. "There's the contacted and I doubt if anybody at Because ofthe implication raised possibility of crops being improved Notre Dame was contacted.'' by this experiment, Berg called for is we could grow a wheat field that 
"I hope to show that the kind of a moratorium on recombinant DNA was essentially self-fertilized," he research I'm doing is not danger­research which lasted nearly two added. ous, is not going to threaten your years. During this time, the Research toward therapeutic morals and really has very little iii National Institute of Health (NIH) benefits can inadvertently lead to common with the kind of recom­created strict guidelines to regulate creations with adverse effects, binant DNA research that is quite a such experiments. Bender acknowledged. "New life controversial subject,'' he "My work in transformation is forms could be developed which continued. not covered by NIH guidelines at would upset the ecological balance 
Erickson used slides of DNA all," Erickson stated. "Transfor-and have catastrophic effects on 
diagrams to explain the theories mation is a very old phenomenon, the human population," Bender discovered in 1928. I use two said. bacteria that have to be related. "Currently, it is unlikely that

Black Cultural Arts Festival opens 
Recombination involves ·unrelated there will be deleterious out-DNA's." comes," Bender emphasized. According to Erickson, transfor--"The government allows the work 
with lmamu Amiri Baraka 
mation occurs when the cell wall of only in specific institutions under by Patrick Cole country is supposed to be unique." the formation of the Klu Klux Klan. a bacteria breaks down, releasing the most controlled environmental 
Senior Staff Reporter Baraka pointed out that the Baraka said that a national region its DNA to form a bond with a sanctions." ideals of capitalism are carried out had also developed the region in neighboring cell. "As the techniques fare per-by the workers. The class that the southern U.S. where cotton is ' 'The most important thing to fected and the risks understood, 
Imamu Amiri Baraka, opening makes the wealth, he said, is the grown. realize is that this type of process hopefully, we'll have the sophisti­the 1977 edition ofthe Notre Dame bourgeoisie who do not work at all. occurs in nature and exerts one of cation of philosophy so therapy and Black Cultural Arts Festival with a "When you go to the Bendix Influence of Malcolm X the most dominant factors in manipulation can be approached," dynamic presentation, called for plant you don't see Mr. and Mrs. evolution," .Erickson stressed. Bender said. "But it must be a tbe elimination of capitalism to Bendix working in the plant," Baraka predicted that Malcolm X "My work at Miles specifically is [continued on page 6] complete the black liberation move­Baraka said. "And that's why will become .known as the greatest ment and to eliminate racism. capitalism won't last because peo­Black leader. "He articulated the 
"But no ruling class leaves on its ple aren't fools." basic lines of the black liberation 
More frigid temperatures 
own accord,'' said the former Le Baraka, a native of Newark, movement: self-defense, self-de­Roi Jones to the audience of about N.J., did undergraduate work at termination and self-respect," Bar­
300. "They must be driven,off." Howard and Rutgers Universities. aka noted. st_rik_~_tloosier territorySocialism, the alternative Baraka He did graduate work at the New 
"Malcolm X made us realize our 
suggested, will not come peace­School of Social Research and Record low temperatures yester­state from the adverse weather at
African traditions," he added. 
day morning shoved Hoosiers back $99 million. He has sent threefully. The revolution will "be Columbie University. Baraka rec­
"He also said the civil rights march 
violent,'' and to become a reality, it eived a Doctorate of Humane into the deep freeze as a dome of appeals to President Carter for a 
on Washington D.C. was nothing
must be lead bv a vanguard party Letters from Chicago's Malcolm X arctic air steeled over tile Midwest, disaster declaration. Carter has
but a 'black bourgeoisie' status
characterized by the Marxist­College in 1972. the National Weather Service said. designated 27 counties as emer­
symbol that would prove nothing. 
which enables them

Leninist philosophy. Baraka is also secretary-general Malcolm's lines of self-defense, Forecasters in Indianapolis said gency areas, only to contract with the ArmyBaraka, who at times delighted of the National Black Assembly, -determination and -respect is con-every weather service reporting Corps of Engineers for help in
the audience with his ironic crit­co-governor of the National Black trary to turning the other cheek." station in the state logged a record icistn _throughout the SO-minute Political Convention, chairman of h. . . . low for Feb. 6. The -16 reading at clearing snow from highways. 
T ts potnt matntamed by Baraka Grissom Air Force Base near Peru
speech, said the black liberation the Congress of African People and Jed to a comparison of Malcolm Tl:!e natural gas crisis has drawn 
movement had been stymied by tounderof the Black Arts Repertory X-inspired activists and civil right was the coldest spot in Indiana. increased attention to alternate fuel several factors. Theater School. sources, including the use of the
leaders and activists of the 1960's. Other temperatures included -15 
sun for heat.
Baraka stated that by having blacks at Lafayette, -14 at Terre Haute,Origin of capitalism
Attacks the bourgeoisie m key positions, that the race -13 at Fort Wayne, -12 at Indiana­Sen. Robert Garton, R-Colum­problem was thought to be solved. polis and -10 at South Bend. bus, has a proposal ready for floor
Baraka labels the slave trade
In defining capitalism, Baraka ''In Newark where I come from The weather service said the cold action that would grant substantial 
which . brought the Africans to
said it is characterized by the we have wall-to-wall blacks in the air mass would remain over Indiana property tax deduction to home­
America as the "beginning of
private ownership of _the land, capitalism." This, he said, was the city hall," Baraka said, "but in through today until it moves east. owners who install solar heating machines, transportation and the 1977 someone can still die from A warming trend is expected to units.
beginning of world trade. The
like. He noted that six-tenths of invention of the cotton gin made tuberculosis!" begin Tuesday when highs are Garton said it currently takes 
one percent of the population cotton an international comodity However, the Black Panthers forecast for the upper 20-Jow 30 about 20 years for a solar unit tocontrol the means of production 
and trapped slaves into the capital­were influenced heavily by Mal-range. pay for itself through reducedwhich Baraka called the bour­ist system. colm X according to Baraka. He Little change was noted in prob­heating bills. His measure would geoisie (pronounced 'booz-wa­"In the eighteenth century, said when Bobby Seale and Huey lems facing the state from the grant exemptions for the full priceshe'). 
of installation, which could range "Who do you want to serve?" between $10,000-$12,000, depend­
slavery became worst,'' Baraka Newton marched into the California severe cold. Natural gas curtail­
explained. The slave master could legislature armed, they were carry-ments continue for thousands ofBaraka challenged the audience. get about seven years work from a ing out Malcolm X's idea of Hoosier business and industries ing on the value of the property. 
''The Rockefellers, the Du Ponts or 
mature slave. He figured the slave self-defense. with state officials estimating be-Garton said the bill would cutdo you want to serve the people?" 
would be mature at age 18, and by ''Malcolm X has left a vacuum in twe~n 50,000 and 60,000 persons the time needed for a solar unit to''American exceptionalism--this 
the time he reached 25, the slave the black liberation movement," stili on layoffs or shortened work pay for itself to four to ten years.
is the definition of american cap­
would die they figured." Baraka indicated. weeks. Most Indiana schools, Ball State University physicsitalism," Baraka continued. "This After the passage of the Hays­Also preventing the black liber-however, are expected to be open Prof. Ronald Cosby estimates solar means that capitalism comes under Tildon Act in 1876, Baraka said an ation movement from materializing today. heating could take care of 50-70 a specific category except U.S. 
age of nco-slavery emerged with fully is the absence of a party. Gov. Otis R. Bowen earlier percent of the space heating needs capitalis_~· Capitalism in this Jim Crow Jaws, segregation and in Indiana.
[ooaUnued oa £ ertimated "'"""t '"'''" to the 
:~-­



2 the observer Monday, February 7, 1977 

---News Briefs--­


Ombudsman director named 
-------.-International 
byTomByme Contributing Editor 


Carter, Trudeau to meet ' 
Ombudsman Director Bridgett O'Donnell yesterday announcedOTIAWA, Canada • On his visit to Washington this m~n~h. 
the selection of Robin Lavender asPrime Minister Pierre Trudeau will tell President Carter and a JOtnt the new director of the organiza­session of Congree how he plans to keep Ca~ada united in the face tion, pending the approval of theof the secessionist movement in Quebec provmce, sources here ~ay. 
Student Body President. "We feel that we picked the most qualified candidate,'' said

Elizabeth celebrates 25th 
O'Donnell. "Robin's been in all 
LONDON • Queen Elizabeth II quietly marked 25 years on the 
Broadcasters to
throne yesterday, but a small literary storm blew up over the poet laureate's Jubilee humn. One critic called it "nursery rhyme gibberish." 

visit ND-SMC 

Free-lance broadcasters and writers Christine and John Lyons


Sanctions recommended 
will visit Notre Dame and St. Mary's Thursday, Feb. 10 toJ1A:R ES SALAAM, Tanziania ·President Julius K. Nyerere said discuss broadcast journalism.
yesterday the next step in the drive for majority rule in Rhodesia is The Lyons will speak to variousfor Britain and Rhodesia black nationalists to agree on what they American Studies and speech andwant. He suggested the means could be tightened economic drama classes as well as St. Mary'ssanctions and more careful policing of existing sanctions. 
journalism class. In addition, a dinner will be held for them at 6:30 
p.m. in St. Mary's Riedinger
--On Campus Toda~/___,.,. House and all interested students 
10 am­
3 pm 6, 7:30 & 11 pm 
7, 7:30. 
8, 8:30 
& 9 pm 
8 p.m. 
8 pm 
9-11 pm 

Rube Goldberg Trophy in 1974 and 
Scripps-Howard Foundation's 
Howard Award. ' 

[continued on page 7]

Congress awaits Carter~ plan 
W ASIDNGTON [AP] · Congress, which last week gave President Carter the tempory authority he sought to deal with the current natural gas crisis, now is looking toward the White House for a sign on how to cope with long-range shortages. 
Lawmakers from gas-producing states claim that Carter has little choice but to recommend lifting federal price controls from inter­state natural gas. They predict Congress will have to buy such a proposal this time, after fighting back deregulation measures for the past two decades. 
Those who support price controls are less certain. They say there is no guarantee the administration will recommend deregulation and might propose modifying rather than ditching the price limits. 
Both camps are waiting to see what is in the long-range energy bill Carter plans to submit in April before making their moves. 
The emergency legislation Con­gress approved, and Carter signed last week gives the President the authority through April 30 to divert gas to areas where supplies are the scarcest because of the unusually fierce winter. It also frees some gas from federal price controls through July 31. 
It was never portrayed as any­thing but a temporary measure to meet urgent needs, either by the White House or its congressional 
sponsors. And House and Senate 
leaders were able tv move it 
through quickly only becuase of the 
severity of the crisis and assuran­
ces from the White House that 
Carter's energy bill would offer 
some kind of solution to the natural 
gas problem. 
ln the Senate, where the move for permanent decontrol is strong­est, members from gas-producing states also extracted a pledge trom Senate leaders that deregulation would be debated on the Senate floor this spring, regardless of whether Carter inclu4es it in his plan. 

are welcome. herff jones ring man, deliveries and new orders for smc 
Sign-up sheets for the dinner are rings, lemans hall 
posted in the St. Mary's Career Development Center. The deadline movie, "a man called horse", sponsored by knights of 
to sign up is 5 p.m. Tuesday, Feb. columbus, knights of columbus bldg., adm. $1 
7. For the past few years, the Lyons have coproduced most of the mardi gras dealers school, Iafortune center aud., also 
Sunday News Closeup documen­taries for WNEW Radio, New York. 
Feb. 8-10 

These documentaries included stories of acupuncture, senior housing and living as missionariesfilm, 11 attica", documentary about prison uprising, in Brazil.
room 104 o'shaughnessy, free 
John Lyons has also worked for ABC Radio News and WYTV-TV,basketball game, nd vs. xavier, ace 
Youngstown, Ohio. The Lyons have received numer­ous journalism awards including
doug stringer,nazz Sigma Delta Chi's Deadline Club 

During his campaign, Carter 
advocated removing for a five-year Walt Disney World· Jai-Aiai ·Beaches ·Sunshine· Fun trial period federal price controls on newly drilled gas transported interstate. 
But he has not repeated the pledge since taking office, and his energy advisor, James R. Schles­inger, has declined to say whether deregulation would be an element of Carter's energy proposal. 
Much of the gas in the interstate market is still selling for as low as 52 cents per thousand cubic feet, although the FPC did raise the limit for newly discovered gas last summer to $1.42 per thousand cubic feet. 
This compares to prices of just over $2 per thousand cubic feet that prevail in the intrastate market ­gas produced and sold in the same state -which has never been subject to federal price regulation. 


DAYTONA BEAC. 
Enjoy Spring Vacation on the World's Most Famous Beach!
*The Observer 
Night Editor: Debbie Dahrling 
MARCH 11-20
Asst. Night Editor: Paula Carroll Layout Staff: Laurel "Sweet­heart" Shutrump, Denise 
7 FULL NIGHTS!
Persinger, John Calcutt Features Layout: Tim O'Reiley Sports Layout: Greg Solman 
* INCLUDES ALL ACCOMMODATIONS
Typists: Sue Shellenburger, Morey Blinder, Mary Ann 
* ALL TRANSPORTATION BY BUSES
Keefe, Leigh Tunakan E.M.T.: Karen Chiames 
* FREE TRANSPORTATION TO DISNEY WORLD 
Day Editor: Jack Pizzolato Copy Reader: Don Reimer and 
* FREE BEER AND SODA ENROUTE 
Pat Cole Photographer: Leo Hansen 
* 
FREE BEER, BANDS, DANCES NIGHTLY

* 
FREE ADMISSION TO 3 POPULAR NIGHT SPOTS 


ThP ObsPrver is published Monday through Friday and weekly dunng the summer session, except during 
Don't be fooled by our competitors.
the exam and vacation periods. The Ob~erver IS published by students of 
SUNSHINE TOURS INC. is based in Daytona Beach year round.
'the Univt>rs1ty of Notre Dame and St Mary's College. Subscriptions 
* Member Daytona Beach Chamber of Commerce (904) 255-0981 
may be purchasPd for $20 per year ($10 pPr semester) from The Obser­
* Registered with Daytona Better Business Bureau (904) 255-0246 
ver, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46'i'i6 SPcond class postagP paid, Notn• Dame, Indiana 46556. 
DON'T BE LEFT OUT IN THE COLD .Call Pat O'Connell
ThP Ob~Prver i~ a member of the A~sociatPd Prf-'~~-All reprnductum nght~ arP rP~PrvPd 
RESERVE YOUR SEAT NOW!! at 283-3549. 
phases of our operation." 

Lavender, a junior biology major from Chicago, has served the Ombudsman in several capacities, including the position of program 1 coordinator. She is also the Academic Council student repre­sentative from the College of · Science and is a member of the Student Affairs Advisory Board. 
"My two goals as director will be to know all the 120 people in the organization and to make sure they're proud to belong to it," Lavender remarked, adding that the work of Ombudsman is a necessary but often unrecognized part of Student Government. 
O'Donnell noted that Lavender was particulary qualified for the post because of her background. ''An important part of her duties involves contact with the admini-
WSND sp~nsors gam_e shows at Mardi Gras 
byDaveBeno 

WSND will 'sponsor three game shows, The Mating Game, The Bong Show, and Sports Challenge, at this year's Mardi Gras. 
Any students who would like to be contestants on these game shows should .sign up between 5 and 6:30p.m. at the South Dining Hall today or at the North Dining Hall tomorrow. 
The station's own disc jockeys will emcee the game shows, and prizes, including records, will be awarded to the contestants. A meeting will be held Wednesday, Feb. 9, at 6:30 p.m. in Stepan for all those who sign up for the game shows. 
Station Manager Dom Fanuele and Steve Thomas, AM .program director, devised the idea of a
-..... ­
~ 

stration. Robin has excellent contact with the administration through the Student Affairs Advi­sory Board and Academic Council. 
The duties of the director include supervisioro of all seven divisions of the Ombudsman and overall re­sponsibility for special projects. The director, in addition, is a Student Government cabinet mem­ber. 
The Ombudsman is a "trouble­shooting" organization associated with student government. The organization maintains a 60 hour per week phone service designed to help mediate student problems and provide services at 7638. The Ombudsman is also responsible for the publication of the student handbook, du Lac, and for the coordination of student elections. 
booth exemplifying tnts year's Mardi Gras theme of "Holly­wood.'' 
WSND Record Relations Mana· ger Pete Goerner is chairman of the station's Mardi Gras booth and operations, and is currently co­ordinating the construction and lighting work. The booth was designed by Alix Walsh, a fourth-year architecture student. 
WSND-AM will broadcast live from Stepan Center throughout Mardi Gras (Feb. 11-Feb. 20). 
The station hopes to line up three celebrities as judges for The Bong Show. 
The highlight of Monday----night's festivities will be a Valentine's Day Disco Dance. 
Goerner expressed hope that many people would sign up to make the game shows a success. 





Quinlan, terminally ill discussed 
by Bub Laoghenry Senior Staff Reporter 

The ethical, legal and medical aspects of the treatment of the terminally ill patient and that person's right to live were discuss­ed Friday at a symposium center­ing around the Karen Anne Quinlan case. 
Various speakers presented their opinions on when treatment should be ceased in a case involving a· terminally ill patient and whose decision it is. Each noted that the major concerns in this question are the determination of the patient's condition and the type of means· used, specifically ordinary or extra­ordinary. 
Dr. Julius Korein, professor of nuerology at the New York Univer­sity Medical Center, noted that technology and information con­cerning brain death have raised new questions regarding how to define life and death. 
He stated that the usual defini­tion of death is the cessation of life functions and that this is not necessarily valid now. 
Fr. John Connery, professor of theology at Loyola University of Chicago, stated that the disconti­nuance of treatment ultimately depended upon whether there was a reasonable hope for reviving spontaneous life functions. 
He continued saying, ''There is a 'imit to this obligation (the doctor's to fight for the patient's life)." Once the patient's condition is 
Oppos_ition to Gandhi strong 
NEW DELHI* India (AP) -In a massive display of antigovern-· ment sentiment, 200,000 persons roared approval yesterday as a diverse group of opposition lead­ers urged the ouster of. Prime Minister Indira Gandhi in March's parliamentary elections. 
The orderly but enthusiastic crowd cheered wildly as Jagjivan Ram, leader of a rebellion in the ruling Congress, party, and Jayap­rakash Narayan, a disciple of independence leader Mohandas Gandhi, denounced the prime min­ister's eleven-year reign and her 19-month emergency suspension of Indian democracy. 
"There were more people in Indian jails during the emergency than in British jails before indepen­dence," said the ailing 74-year old Narayan, who was imprisoned for the first five months of the emer­gency and released when both his kidneys failed. 
"I don't know \Vi1at crime these thousands of people had commit­ted, but they were put into jail without trial," he said. "Many are still there." 
The large turnout further bol­stered spirits of the opposition, which initially felt it ha~L little determined, a distinction between ordinary and extraordinary means of sustaining life must be made, he stated. 
Connery then noted that a theo­logian and physician see the means of sustaining life as relating to different things. 
According to Connery, the theo­logian is speaking in reference to the patient's comfort when con­sidering ordinary or extraordinary means, while the doctor looks at extraordinary as anything not common to medical procedure. 
He concluded that there is no such thing as a right to die if one may omit ordinary means under ordinary circumstances. However, one does have a right to die in the sense of extraordinary means, he stated. "No doctor has the right to impose such means," he said. 
Connery suggested the term "right to die" be limited to the "right not to use extraordinary means." . 
However, Dennis J. Horan, Chicago lawyer and chairman of the American Bar Associations Right to Live/Right to Die Commit­tee, sees the physician as having a contractual relationship with the patient. He stated that the physician has an ethical obligation and must make responsive action when necessary. 
In the Quinlan case, one of the main arguments was the patient's right to privacy. Paul W. Arm­strong, Quinlan family attorney and Notre Dame Law School grad-
chance of defeating Mrs. Gandhi when she announced the elections three weeks ago. 
Yesterday's rally was considered a symbolic victory for the opposi­tion because it was twice as large as a public meeting addressed by Mrs. Gandhi on the same site Saturday. 
Mrs. Gandhi's rally ended pre­maturely, after large groups of a restive, unresponsive crowd of 100,000 walked out before she finished speaking. 
Mrs. Gandhi, shaken by Ram's resignation from her cabinet four days ago, received another setback over the weekend when former President V.V.Giri endorsed an opposition demand for an end to the continuing suspension of the 
· civil liberties. 
1 Giri, elected as constitutional head of state in 1969 with Mrs. Gandhi's strong support, said the lifting of the emergency would prove that she "stands equal 
for the constitutional and demo­cratic traditions." 
Mrs. Gandhi repeatedly has refused to lift the emergency, but ht;;r government has announced a uate, said, ''The court concluded that in Karen's circumstances, the degree of bodily invasion was so great and her prognosis so dim that her right to privacy clearly out­weighed any arguable state inter­est." 
In the New Jersey Supreme Court's opinion, "This right (to privacy) is broad enough to encom­pass a patient's decision to decline medical treatment under certain circumstances.'' 
Jonathan Brant, assistant attor­ney general of Massachusetts, said that the most important principle which comes from cases of this type ''is that decisions concerning the terminally ill must be based upon a consideration of the real interests of the patient." 
"The determination of the best interests of the patient must be determined by the medical evi­dence principly concerning proba­bility of recovery, potential side­effects, and the nature of the treatment," Brant clarified. 
He further stated that the stand­ards for court decision-making require access to all relevant medical evidence concerning the efficacy of the proposed procedure, the potential deleterious effects and the probabilities of real bene­fits for the patient. 
Horan stated that there is reallv no dispute over the fact that it some time treatment of the termin­ally ill patient must be stopped. He further noted though that it must 
[continued on page 7] 

major relaxation -including a guarded lifting of press censorship and removal of a ban on public rallies -to permit "legitimate political activity" during the elec­tion campaign. 
The government has announced the release of nearly 2,000 political prisoners in the past two weeks, but, the opposition claims about 8,000 remain in detention. 
ORIGINALPRICE _$9,995.00 MR. MOTOR HOME DISCOUNT 995.00 
JANUARY 15 PRICE $9,000.00 
AND GOING DOWN AT THE RATE OF $1 PER HOUR UNTIL SOLD! . 
10844 MCKINLEY HWY. 
OSCEOLA, IND. Mr. Motor Home 
674-9937 
............................................ Valentine's Day 
Classified Ads 
Tell your Valentine and the world how you really feel! 

Ads will be taken in the Observer office Everyday until5, 
Valentine Special: Up to tOwords for $1.00! 
~.................................................. 
Monday, February 7, 1977 the observer 

Mardi Gras 'Hollywood' carnival· opens Friday 
by Jim Hershey Staff Reporter 

Construction of booths for the 1977 Mardi Gras is well underway after a week of work at Stepan Center, according to chairman Don Bishop. The carnival opens this Friday, Feb. 11. 
Don Bishop and Coordinator Allan O'Gorman met last April to start planning for this year's Mardi Gras. In October halls and organi­zations from Notre Dame and St. Mary's submitted plans for booths drawn up by their own architects. Lisa Becker and Dan Pichler, Mardi Gras architects, reviewed these plans. Bishop noted that the groups erected the booth structures this year on the first day of construc­tion. Also, the construction crews have cut down on wood wasteage. 
He said, "We have been really strict on design because we want the groups to stay close to the 'Hollywood' theme." 
"When you are picking a theme, you have to make .sure that there will be an abundance of ideas, so that there will be room for different projects," Bishop continued· "One of the reasons that we chose tt.e 'Hollywood' theme was that Holly­wood is a show atmosphere, which Mardi Gras is supposed to be." 
The title of the Morrissey-Holy Cross (SMC) booth is "Around the World in Eighty Days." The booth represents the flying ballon in the movie. The workers explained that they dismissed the idea at first becaused they thought that it would be impossible. However, they figured out a way to build it. 
The Grace-LeMans booth feat­ures the space buggy of the movie, "2001: Space Odyssey." The main feature of the booth is the angular facade. The crew plans to paint the bu with alumnium colored 
Dutch Auction at Mr. Motor Home!!f 
LIMITED BICENTENNIAL IDITION LUXURY FREE­
DOM VAN REDUCED $1.00 EVERY HOUR SINCE JAN 15. 
paint. They also plan to add some engines to the wood construction. 
Holy Cross (Notre Dame) has CQnstruct_edthe Empire State Buil­ding with King Kong atop. 
Farley's booth title is "A Street­car Named Desire." The streetcar follows the pattern of ..a San Francisco streetcar. They complet­ed the structure on the first day with 15 people. 
Students from Flanner are buil­ding a haunted house booth. They are building monsters as part of the project. During Mardi Gras some Flanner students will dress up as spooks and scare people. Flanner's crap table will be the first crap table featured at Mardi Gras in several years. 
The Keenan booth is a saloon that will include swinging doors, poker tables, and lamps above the tables. The construction also in-dudes a traditional saloon balcony. . 
Introduced into the carnival games this year will be Backgam­mon, mice races, and a Wheel of Fortune whose prizes will be stuffed animals. Poker and black­jack will be featured as usual. Bishop talked about the financial aspects of the Mardi Gras. "We bought a fully-equiped Cutlass Supreme, which was more expen­sive than last year's Nova. But we knew we would get the money because we knew that we were going to work hard. We have cut down on frills, and we bought machines (popcorn and Coke) instead of renting. This will help assets to be very good next year." 
He also said that although they were spending more money on entertainment this year, ticket sales have already exceeded last year's number. 
Coordinator Allan O'Gorman said that the Mardi Gras will have television coverage from several channels. 
\ 
~ 
\ 

In his speech last evening Gary Cooper emphasized the need for blacks to work within the present political system. Cooper opened the Black Arts Festival last night in the Memorial library Auditorium. [photo by leo Hansen] 

FTC Commissioner Dixon apologizes for ethnic slur 
WASHINGTON [AP] • Federal Trade Commissioner Paul Rand Dixon, buffeted with futher de­mands for his resignation, reversed himself and sent a personal apo­logy to Ralph Nader late yesterday for his ethnic slur against the consumer advocate. 
Dixon earlier had vowed he would not apologize directly to Nad,er for calling him "a son of a bitch and a dirty Arab," though he did express general regret over offense taken by others. 
Meanwhile yesterday, the Na­tional Organization for Women and the American Jewish Congress joined the growing list of organiza­tions calling for Dixon to step down, and the flap over the commissioner penetrated the FTC's official business. 
Nader, who is of Lebanese descent, confirmed that he re­ceived yesterday evening a hand­delivered letter from Dixon in. which he acknowledged that at a trade gather Jan. 17 "I made a derogatory reference to your ethic background." 
''As I have previously stated, I deeply regret having made this remark and I apologize for it," Dixon wrote. 
by Karen Sikorski Staff Reporter 

Food, military spending and unemployment will· be the key issues discussed at a workshop sponsored by CILA on February 18 and 19. The workshop will be conducted by Network, a Catholic lobbying organization., 
The general theme of the event, according to Mark Hommes of CILA, will be "working for social justice through legislation.'' The Friday night session will be an open lecture presenting the key issues, and discussion of why students should become involved in the political process. It will be held from 7:30 to 10 p.m. in the Hayes-Healy auditorium. 
Saturday's activity will involve a morning and afternoon session, 
Mass to celebrate 'Respect for life' 
Fr. Willian Lewers, the Indiana Holy Cross Provincial, will concel­ebrate a "Respect for Life" Mass with other campus priests in Sacred Heart Church on Wednesday at 5 p.m., according to Rick LaSiavia, chairman of the ND-St. Mary's Pro-Life Group. 
"It is our hope that the ND-St. Mary's community will join toge­ther on Wednesday to celebrate God's gift of life," said LaSalvia. 
The theme of the Mass will be "reverence for life" LaSalvia said the ·~tragic destruction of the unborn was at the rate of 1.5 million a year," and noted that "there were more abortions than live births in Washington D.C. last year." 
"That is why it is so important that we as members of a Catholic university bear witness to the sanctity of all human life," he said. 
both concerning the practical as­pects of lobbying. This part of the workshop, Hommes says, will be "skill-oriented," dealing with "how the legislative process works and how it can be affected by those interested in social justice." 
Those wishing to attend the Saturday sessions must pre-regi­ster at the Student Activites office by next Wednesday. Each persop registering will be asked to give his or her hometown; members of network will then obtain the voting records of each participant's Con­gressional representatives. This information will be supplied on the day of the workshop, according to Hommes, and will aid in lobbying efforts. The Saturday sessions will take place from 9 a.m. to noon and 
----~-------­





Black Arts Festival opens 
by Bob Vuettonl Staff Reporter 

Gary Cooper, an Alabama state representative and a Viet-Nam war hero, opened the Black Cultural Arts Festival last night by asking blacks to work. within the present political system. 
"There is only one reason blacks have been kept out of politics so long," Cooper said, "because that's where the power is. You must become involved in politics." 
Cooper's speech, before a near capacity crowd in the Memorial Library Auditorium, preceeded the appearance of Imamu Baraka. Baraka went on to adocate black participation in a violent overthrow of the government. During a question and answer period, Coop­er responded to Baraka. 
"If we use any other political system," Cooper said, "we won't have to worry about our poor people. We won't have to worry about them because they would be dead." 
Speaking on the topic, "An Inquiry into Black America,'' Coop­er said that black culture is underdeveloped in some areas. 
"Blacks must strive to gain economic power and economic independence," Cooper empha­sized. "Until we develop economic independence, we'll have a difficult time educating our children." Cooper said blacks must develop a strong moral fiber in order to have the discipline to make reforms. He added that blacks should get more involved in their communities. 
"We've got time," Cooper said, ''to do everything in the world except give of ourselves. The fact that we've been poor and oppres­sed for so long is not any excuse to get involved in our communities." 
Cooper graduated from Notre Dame in 1958 with a Bachelor's degree in Finance. He particularly mentioned Fr. Hesburgh as a man he admired. 
"I guess many of you are 
Justice theme ofCILA workshop 
from 1:30 to 4 p.m. in Hayes-
He;~~·Networkorganization, made up primarily of Catholic nuns, regularly offers workshops. This is 
the first to be held at Notre Dame.
Hommes pointed out the value of lliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiilliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~~·····
-· ·-• 
................................. the senior bar will be open after the xavier basketball game tonight. 8pm-2am. be there. 
.................................4 

Chimes 
St. Mary's literary magazine now accepting submit c/o Westler stories, 
310 Madeleva St. Mary's
poems, plays, deadline: 
art, photos 
March 9. 

the workshop to those who parti­cipated in Urban Plunge. "It (the workshop> is a good fonow-up," he 
remarked. "You've seen the 
problems, now you can learn how to change what you saw.''
... 

wondering what Notre Dame was like for black students 20 years 
ago,"  said  Cooper.  "It  was  
interesting.  Socially,  it  was  un­ 
believeable.  All the black students  

on campus could fit into my one room." 
A Marine for 12 years, Cooper was the first black man in the history of the corps to lead an infantry company into combat. While in Viet-Nam Cooper received a Bronze Star, two Purple Hearts, and a Vietnamese Cross of Gallat­ry. As a representative from Alabama, Cooper is a member of 

the Advisory Committee to the U.S. 
Comission on Civil Rights. 

Cooper was introduced by Don Hill, a member of the festival committee. Another introductory speaker was Fr. James Burtchaell, Universitv Provost. 
Burtch~ell introduced Cooper as a personal friend. He said the Black Cultural Arts Festival was one of the most important events on the Universitv calendar. 
"We need to invite and welcome far more black students than we have here now," Burtchaell added. 
IRS computes returns 
Taxpayers can elect to have the complete certain portions of his or 
Internal Revenue Service compute her tax return, attach all W-2 
their income tax on either the Short Forms, sign the return, and mail it 
Form 1040A, or long Form 1040 if by April 15 to the address listed in . 
they have an adjusted gross income the tax instruction booklet. 
of $20,000 or less. Persons filing The tax will be determined from 
Form 1040 must also take the the proper tax table and the 
standard deduction to qualify for taxpayer will either receive a 
the computation, the IRS said. refund for any overpayment or be 
notified of the amount of any tax
Another requirement, according 
due.
to the IRS, is that the taxpayer's 

Exact details of which portions of 
income must be solely from wages, 

the_ return must be completed in
salary, tips, dividends, interest, 

order to have IRS compute the tax
pensions and annuities. 

appear in the tax package instruc­To take advantage of IRS compu­tions· mailed earlier to each tax­ting the tax. the taxpayer need onlv payer.
-----,............... --------­
·:~----------------=-p~----''' -,_____ -----·.· 
:~ arty... :. :~The Library TONIGHT 8pm-2am l~ 1 .~ All the beer you can drink. :~ 
·~ .~
:. $1.00-Girls $2.00-Guys :•
l: Dancing in one room :: : and live entertainment in the other!!!!! ~ 
: ~ 
:~ EVERYONE INVITED! : 
~=---• • • • • • • • • I a • • • • A • • a A A a a a a a a a ~ 
~-------------------­

----------·­



Last Chance!, 
to pick up money from books sold at Book Exchange feb. 6 & 7; 1-4pm
S d G


tu ent ovt.. Treasurer's Office 
NO Student Union and Sunsht"ne Promotion 
PRESENT 



Boston 
WITH 
Special Guest Rick Deninger 1\'londay Feburary 28, 7:30PM NOJRE DM1E. ACC 
TICkets: $6.50,$6.00~$5.00 
Go on sale TUESDAY ~~:£. :; 1t 1he ACC Box Office Student Unbn Box Office and aD ACC tkket 0t1tlets 
I 
I
L_ 
~ ---~-------~----­
Records 
by Scott Appleby 

Worth their Weight in Gold 
Since early 1970, when the Beatles officially went their separate ways, every­one from promotion moguls and exploit­ative, fast-buck Freddies, to the consis­tently clamorous and adoring general public, has bribed, pleaded, threatened, and cajoled those four prosperous lads into some sort of fantastic, apocalyptic reunion, all to little avail. 
Meanwhile, McCartney, Lennon, Harri­son and Starr have stuttered, faltered, experimented and, on occasion, come with some of the best music of their careers, as Beatles or otherwise. Case in point is the spattering of recent releases by Paul. George, and Ringo (John remaining in absentia toward the re-ordering of legal and familial affair~). 
The major difficulty inherent in Paul McCartney's music had, up to the release of Wings Over America, only been heightened by the composer's post-Beatle involvements and self-indulgences; his work suffered from terminal attacks of light-headed cuteness. Granted, the Beat­les main stock and trade was in the giddy ambivalence of young love and their constant repetition of the delights and turmoils of the young lover. Yet, their handling of a dangerously mundane, silly topic was so masterful, controlled, and musically correct that they single-handedly established a genre of entertainment expansive enough to serve as the bedrock of a generation of second-rate imitators. 
Ironically. Paul McCartney soon became a victim of that genre after the dissolution of the Fab Four. He attempted to carry on the classy traditions of his former partners, but without the balancing effect of Len­non's generally crude, rough realism. Paul's music soon deteriorated into a tedious string of sugar-coated, shallow aphorisms. Excellent melodies and themes were sl'bmerged in the endless, formless redundancies of unquestioned love. 
Wings Over America goes a long way towards overcoming this weakness, pri­marily because it strips McCartney of the controlled calculation of the studio and presents the raw talent, the imperfect genius of his music. The strongest cuts on this live collection showcase the former Beatie either on piano or backed by soft acoustics. "Lady Madonna" boasts a fresh spirit with McCartney's vigorous vocal as do "Magneto and Titanium Man," "I've Just Seen a Face" and the McCartney theme song, "Yesterday." The playing and harmony of Wings members Denny Laine and Jimmy McCullough make the fast-paced numbers work; both guitarists shine on standard Wings numbers such as "Jet," "Band on the Run," and "Call Me Back Again." The highlight of the set, however, is McCartney's re-interpretation of "Maybe I'm Amazed" and "The Long and Winding Road,'' two of his best love songs which never suffered from sweet­ness. When we hear McCartney live, warts and all, the sweetness becomes sublime. 
George Harrison, "the quiet Beatie," can't seem to decide whether he is an ardent Sri Krishna promo man or simply a struggling, insecure songwriter in search of public acclaim. Throughout the pendu­lous course of his solo career, he has attempted to merge these conflicting personas indentity, much to his discredit. If not totally resolved, this identity crisis is at least circumvented in his latest offering, the remarkably brilliant 33YJ. 
33 'h picks up where All Things Must Pass left off; that is, it innures the listener to the anathema of Harrison's spiritual hard-sell by imbueing it with tasteful, stylish rock. Harrison's melodies and progressions have never been better, and his singing voice, prone to whining and wheezing in past trials, comes through here as soundly as any instrument. In a bid for commercial appeal, the sitars have been replaced by Tom Scott's horn section, most notably on the light-weight numbers ("Pure Smokey," "It's What You Value") which are appreciably better as a result. 
The best cuts are outstanding in that the eccentricity of Harrison's lyrical approach is masked--or, in some cases, made appealing--by the force of the melody and musicianship of the tune. Both "Cracker­box Palace," a weak metaphor for the nasty material world, and "This Song," a weaker defense of Harrison's recent loss in a plagiarism case, benefit from excellent production work to the extent that they are transform~d into competent MOR tracks. 
Though the silent Beatie continues to bully his audience lyrically, he has finally found a way to soothe them musically; he puts it succinctly: "Left alone with my heart/ I'm learning how to love you." 
Ringo Starr is the Jerry Ford of popular music: he doesn't really accomplish very much, but he's an agreeable guy and everybody likes him. He has wisely chosen, in his latest album Rotogravure, to remain competent and fun and uncontroversial; as a result his music stays that important one step ahead of contrived mediocrity. 
It's difficult not to be charmed by Ringo's blundering amiability; songs as contrived and nostalgic as "A Dose of Rock'n'Roll" and the traditional "Hey Baby" could succeed only when enlivened by trumpets, saxophones, backround clap­ping and most importantly, the reckless abandon of Ringo's Wlliling. 
Finally, those countless millions clamor­ing for a Beatles reunion need look no further than Rotogravure for an end to their quest: each of the former Beatles has contributed at least one number to the album in reverence for a partnership that has not died, but simply and naturally expanded. As Paul puts it in "Pure Gold": 
We're holding something special from 
the past 

And do still believe the stories we've 
been told 

All the things she brings me worth their 
weight in gold. 

Revivalism on Campus 
By Fr. Bill Toohey 
"Nothing gives a man as great a sense of superiority as does the handling of another's conscience!" That one sentence is the only explanatory note one finds in the Jerome Biblical Commentary for Jesus' denunciation of the Pharisees and lawyers, when he says, 'Alas for you because you load men with burdens" (Lk 11, 46). 
That gospel admonition provides an appropriate introduction for a discussion of a matter that has reached somewhat critical proportions. More and more students have been speaking to us lately about their being victimized by the high-pressure tactics of certain fundamen­talist~ and evangelists who roam the campus. Several students have com­plained of being badgered into one or another activity sponsored by various groups, only to experience a blatant form of proselytizing and hard-sell harangue. 
Several students have told us how they were pestered until they responded to the invitation to "come to a gathering." They reported that the major emphasis was on their sinfulness, with an inordinate concen­tration on sexual matters; and with a heavy dose of the worst vestiges of pre-Vatican-II spirituality. Others have spoken of their experiences with proselytizers who were extremely conservative and even reaction­ary; who employ the Bible with an uncritical literal interpretation, almost as though it were ammunition to secure a spiritual beachhead. 
One student told about his experiences with a group that so controlled the members that they had to have approval from the "authorities" before dating a person with the intention of marrying. Other students state that one movement active on campus even goes so far as to regulate the classes students are permitted to take; what they can read; the religious services they are allowed to attend; the priests they can talk to. 
It is one thing to recognize that it is proper for Notre Dame to be an "open campus," one that does not bar from the­premises individuals and movements the university does not officially endorse or sponsor. It is quite another matter, however, when numerous students get themselves thoroughly messed up in the· process; in other words, when young persons suffer acute psychological stress and/or serious spiritual harm. 
Some of us are becoming quite dis­tressed at the "fall out," that is, those students who come to our attention because they have been hurt through-these contacts. Unfortunately. many students attracted to these t:ealots are precisely those least cap:~:,Je of handling the experience: the emotionally immature, tht· potentially scrupu:ouf.. those with a sen&i-
Monday, February 7, 1977 the observer 
.................*........................ 
GOOD CHRISTIAN GALS REJOICE [sing to the tune of Good Christian Men Rejoice] 

Good Christian Gals Rejoice Cut your hair and change your voice Hear the Church's new decree With appropriate surgery You may now be priests You may now be priests! 
A priest must always be a man Like Jesus, says the Vatican Or the laymen might begin To think that God is feminine And we know She's not And we know She's not! 
This rule would cause embarassment If carried to its full extent, All priests over thirty-three Would needs be slaughtered ritually. It would make a mess, It would make a ness. 
And so, as has always been the norm, The Church, in true archaic form, Continues to discriminate, And keep the sexes separate. Christ was born for this? Christ was born for this? 
John Colligan 
mexico 

Mexico is dark skinned people with dirt under their finger nails. It's a man with one arm and no legs playing a harmonica on the street to earn his living. It's people giving you wrong directions instead of just telling you they don't know where the place is at. It's having your bus break down halfwayto your destination, receiving only half the price of your ticket back (because after all they did take you halfway) and then having to thumb back. It's meeting many new people who are willing to help and who want to be friends. 
Mexico is riding the metro at rush hour and getting off at Pi no Suarez -not because you wanted to but because everyone else wanted to, (or on the other hand it's missing your stop because you couldn't get off.) It's buying a "typically Mexican curiosity" at what you thought was a good price and then having a friend ask, "Did you mean to get ripped off?" It's struggling over a paper which could easily be written in English but must be in Spanish. It's a bunch of gringos on an all-night bus trip making a lot of noise. It's finally being confident that your Spanish is good enough that just about anyone will understand you. 
Mexico is rushing to catch the metro before it closes, haggling over prices is a market, going out to eat every night, catching the 8:30 a.m. school bus, and laughing at all the stupid things you've done. 
Mexico is 20 people who go from hardly knowing each other to becoming very good friends. It's frustrating, adventurous, traumatic, different, and fantastic. It's the best choice I've ever made. 
Maria Choca 

*Observer 


Features 
tive psyche or hyper-active imagination. 
Several rectors have spoken of students of theirs who had to leave school because, as one priest put it, "they flipped out as the result of their involvement in one of those groups." It seems it's time to speak some words of caution about these occur­rences and the fact that there appears to be a close relationship in all of this to "revivalism." 
It might be well to review the basic characteristics of the phenemonon. The revivalist convicts you of sin and then offers you salvation; reminds you to "accept the Lord Jesus Christ and you shall be saved"; warns you that you are miserable because you do not obey the will of God. "Revivalism," William James writes in his classic study, The Varieties of Religious Experience, has always assumed that only its own type of religious experience can be perfect; you must first be nailed on the cross of natural dispair and agony, and then in the twinkling of an eye be miraculously released." 
Frequently, the revivalist will use the "mortification proces£," a procedure suc­cessfully used to modify behavior in prisons, monasteries, mental hospitals and, in my own experitnces, ~·brine Corps boot camps. A person's sdf-image, suppcrted by home and work environ­
meJits. is subjected to all-out attack. The person is stripped of such support, and. 
when sufficiently desperate for "salva­tion," is offered a way of rescue, replete with rigid rules and ample stimulation for any potential obsessive dependency. 
Erving Goffman, in his book, Asylums: Essays on the. Social Situation of Mental Patients and Other Inmates, illuminates the psycho-dynamics of the mortification process: "Upon entrance, a person is immediately stripped of support for his self-image. In the accurate language of some of our oldest institutions, he begins a series of abasements, degradations, humi­liations, and profanations of self. His self ­is systematically, if often unintentionally, mortified. He begins some radical shifts in his moral career, a career composed of ttie progressive changes that occur in the beliefs that he has concerning himself and significant others.'' 
Demonology is another possible ingre­dient in revivalism. The more a person is threatened with fantasies of diabolic presence and activity. the more he will cling to one who can exorcise him; the more he will entrust himself to one who promises. "Rely on me; I 'discern evil spirits and drive them out." 
It seems we do indeed need an exorcism. But the practices l'vl' been describing strongly suggest that if there is any demon to be exorcised on this eampus. its name is revivalism. 
r-----------------~--~~~~~~------------------------------------------­
6 the""' observer Monday, February 7, 1977 
----··-=:__:___:._:=...:..__________:_.:...:.::.:.:.::.:::..u....;...= 
St. Mary's starts new Summer Job Program 
by Marti Hogan St. Mary's Editor 
While most students were vaca­tioning during Christmas break, Karen O'Neil, director of Career Development Center (CDC) and two student interns were recruiting . businesses to participate in the CDC Summer Job Program at Saint Mary's. 
"We sent out letters to 400 companies and 1800 parents announcing the Summer Job Program and asking them to create summer job positions," O'Neil said. 
Park Jefferson Apartments in South Bend was the first company to respond to the request. Several interviews were conducted Tues­day for the position of rental agent. 
"It would be a good experience for anyone interested in real estate as a career," O'Neil explained. 
Several other companies have also expressed interest in the program, including U.S. Steel. "These are companies that have never come to St. Mary's before," she said. 
"These companies are offering jobs like starting as trainees," said Gretchen Obringer, student CDC intern and co-coordinator of the program. "For example, if you got 

East, Midwest suffer from cold 
The nation's storm-ravaged East and Midwest continued yesterday to shake off the ravages of one of the worst winters in history. 
'New York's upstate region, hit hardest by the unusually severe weather, was bypassed by a week­end blizzard and got a boost with the promise of some needed natur­al gas from Canada and the West Coast. 
The weekend's winter storm was far over the Atlantic Ocean yester­day but the clear skies that trailed were accompanied by more bitter cold. 
Sunday morning temperatures were below zero in much of the Midwest -15 below at Lafayette, Ind., 12 below at Indianapolis, 11 below at Columbus, Ohio. 
With the latest rush of cold air came new efforts to combat the winter. It was "Heat Sunday" in Rhode Island for example, with churchgoers chipping in to help heat the homes of their less fortunate neighbors. 
Non-essential driving was still banned yesterday in Buffalo, N.Y., the snow-chilled city on the shore of Lake Erie as federal, state and local crews kept digging through the snow and ice, opening up more streets and roads. 
President Carter Saturday de­clared nine counties in western and northern New York State disaster areas, qualifying them for federal assistance. 
So far, Carter has declared disaster areas in Maryland, Vir­ginia and Florida, as well as New York, making them eligible for such benefits as unemployment aid, emergency food stamps, and low-interest loans for businessmen. 
He has declared emergencies in Michigan, Pennsylvania, Indiana 

-
and Ohio. The emergency desig­nation also makes federal aid available, but to a lesser degree. 

DNA research 
[continued from page 1] collective societal decision." Dr. David Morgan, assistant professor of· biology, commended the Notre Dame students for dis­playing "an intelligent and mature attitude" toward the DNA research controversy, stating, "The stu­dents did not respond on impulse. · Rather, they were inquiring about 
the situation and asked for infor­mation from the people whom they knew could provi.de it." 

a job in a bank, you wouldn't work Business and accounting posi­as teller, but as a management tions are the most sought after, trainee." according to the preferences listed 
CDC hopes to find non-tradi-on the applications. They are tiona! summer jobs related to followed by nursing, law and student career interests. "Waitress journalism. jobs, camp counsellor and lifeguard Obringer explained that <;:DC positions are always there," O'Neil will try to place students in the stated. "But we're trying to solicit positions they prefer, but if it is jobs that were never made known unable to, the student is on her to students before." own. 
"For example," she continued, "We're not acting as a place­"! got a call today from a company ment agency but a referral agen­saying it was having problems cy," O'Neil said. "We're hoping to getting women to work in industrial stimulate businesses to hire stu­sales positions. No women have dents for the summer and give 
. been exposed to such jobs. If they information to the student instead were able to experience it through of leaving her completely on her a summer job opportunity, they own." might be interested.'' 
The next step in the program is 
She also indicated that many to contact the juniors as job offers summer jobs can lead to better jobs are received. Students will be in a company. "A woman who contacted by phone. works in a plant as a laborer this 
All applications received by Dec. 
summer can work up to a manage­1, the deadline date, will be ment position that may not other­considered first. Those applications wise be open to her," O'Neil said. 
received later will get lower prior­According to O'Neil, many stu­
ity.

dents have expressed career inter­''If there are three kids available ests which do not have job open­for a job, the one who turned in her ings at the present time, such as application first will get top prior­journalism. "We hope that by ity," Obringer explained. 
providing exposure to various jobs, students will be able to work up to The applicants are not guaran­these jobs," she said. teed a job, "but if they go to the 
"Once you get work experience workshops, they will be better in business," she continued, "your prepared for interviews here and at major is not a hindrance." home for the summer," O'Neil said. She added that she does not already, such as working for their expect students to be placed before parents or a company that will spring break. rehire them each summer. How-
More than 25 percent of the ever, she is pleased with the junior class have submitted appli-response the program received. cations for the program. O'Neil "Now I can say to businesses acknowledged that many students that our students are really career are committed to summer jobs Tl'lotivated," O'Neil concluded. 
are you......... 
Not Baptized and interested in becoming a Christian? Baptized and interested in 
becoming a Roman Catholic? 
Baptized Catholic and interested in receiving the sacrament of Confirmation? 
Baptized Catholic and interested in learning more about your religion? for information please contact the : NOTRE DAME CATECHUMENATE 
at Campus Ministry Campus Ministry West Memorial Library aJ Badin Hall 
283-6536 ~ 283-3820 
The onlycheaper way to see Europeisto enlist 
2 months, unlimited Second Class train travel,_13 countries, $230. 
Check it out. A Student-Railpass is a super deal; the best and cheapest way to see a lot of the Continent. Trains are fast, comfortable, frequent. And they speed you to the heart of cities. Stations are like small towns with everything a traveler needs. You meet fellow backpackers (Europeans, too). You can sleep on board; couchettes are bargains. Your Student-Railpass even covers some ferry steamer and motorcoach rides. Best of all with the Pass you can stay loose, park where you like, move on at whim. There's always another train you can catch. To get a Student-Railpass you have to be a full-time student under 26. Both Student-Railpass and Eurailpass are sold here through your Travel Agent. You can'rbuy them in Europe. If you've less than or more than two months, get a Eurailpass. Same idea but you ride First Class. Available in two or three-week Passes, or one, two, or three-month Passes. 
If you're not about to enlist why not plan to see Europe with a No, you won't have to pass a physical. 




r-------­

I 
Student-Railpass. Box 0 Staten Island, N.Y. 10305 

I 
Please send me free information on Europe's biggest travel bargain, Student-Railpass and Eurailpass. 
Name

I Address----------------'-----­
1City State ip___ I 
My Travel Agent is · 
J

I 192-408 
AUSTRIA•--------­. BELGIUM DENMARK 
~~~~~~~~ii1t:~ smnm~~t~~~'=~ 
NORWAY PORTUGAL SPAIN SWEDEN SWITZERLAND 
--~---------------~ 

Monday, February 7, 1977 the observer 
Legislation needed in Quinlan-type cases 
[continued from page 3] Keene, who authored the Cali­fornia Natural Death Act, stated it
be determined who-a dying patient is ''a step in the right direction and is and · in his opinion recognizes the need of the termi­Quinlan was not a dying patient. 
nally ill to preserve some measureHe believed that the case was of freedom from the tyranny of
trying to ask questions that were not there. 
technology. It establishes in law a process by which a person can"Ifthere is a lesson to be learned exercise control over his final daysfrom the Quinlan case," he said, when he may be no longer able to"it seems to me that one lesson is effectively communicate his rightfor the court to interfere less with to refuse treatment.''
medicine and to spend more time analyzing the legal issues involved, "The act always permits the 
physician to decide in favor of life and in particular the impact those where a reasonable doubt exists,"legal issues will have on other Keene commented.
areas of the law." Barry M. Keen, California as­
Horan noted that when dealingsemblyman, sees that legislature with cases such as these, there are as the place for these issues. "I possibilities of reaching into other believed that the legislature was, 

realms. "Already we see the and still is a proper forum to movement for the legalization of 
address the substantive issues of voluntary and involuntary euthana­the terminallv ill," he asserted. sia," he said. 
"I'm in agreement that Barry Keen does not do that, however,Baraka speaks we cannot tum our backs on the possibilities of euthanasia,'' Horan said. "One cannot but express the
[continued from page 1] 
concern previously stated by Pro­pa~icipate whether or not they are Baraka blamed the Communist fessor Yale Kamisar in his famous registered at CDC. Party in the United States of article that the slippery slope once 
"I'll keep a log of frequently America (CPUSA) for being a part begun is indeed difficult to termi­asked questions so we can improve of the bourgeoisie and opposing nate, and where it will terminate is the material we have at CDC to anyone's guess," he noted.
Malcolm X. answer those questions," Jones "But the CPUSA is masquerad­The symposium was attended by said. ''The goal of the program is ing today," Baraka revealed, say­approximately 200 Notre Dame law to let freshmen and sophomores ing that the communist party must students and professors. It wasknow that CDC is for them, too." act secretly to operate. 
sponsored by the Notre Dame Law
In his concluding remarks, Bar­
School and the Center for Civil
aka warned that the country must 
Rights. It was part of the Law
prepare for an imperialist war with 
School's Impact Project, which
the Soviet Union. "The Soviet
Summer program examines issues that have a direct
Union has a GNP half that of the 
impact on laws and institutions. 
U.S. and spends just as much as we
offered in London do on weapons," Baraka said. Baraka's presentation, which 
The College Center for Educa­was preceeded by Rep. Gary Campus Ministry tion (CCEA) at Beaver College in Cooper's talk, kicked off the three­
Glenside, Penn., will be offerning week long schedule of events for sponsors retreat 
three Summer Programs making the Notre Dame Black Cultural Arts extensive use of the unique facili­Festival. This week's festival Campus Ministry will sponsor a retreat in the Old College on Feb.
ties and resources in and near activities include a soul food dinner 
London. 25 through Feb. 27. The weekend
at the North and South Dining
Courses offered in London will Halls tomorrow. Also tomorrow will be planned and coordinated include Archaeology. History, Lit. night will be a presentation by prinicipally by students who have erature. Modern Art, Music and Barbara Proctor, owner of Proctor participated in COR/TEC, Sociology. The Shakespeare Sum­and Gardner Advertising in Chica­SEARCH or similar retreat week­
mer School. also in London. will go, in the Library Auditorium at 
ends. continue for both graduate and 8p.m. The event will be open to anyone undergraduate students. wishing to attend. Students inter­
A new Theatre Program in ested in planning the weekend as Surrey will feature individual per­Broadcasters visit well as those who desire to par­
formance and play production as ticipate in the retreat are asked to well as study and analysis of texts. [continued from page 2] _ sign up in the Campus Ministry The CCEA is a division of Beaver The Lyons are m the process of Office in the library as soon as College established to provide nec­initiating a new radio show, possible. essary services f{)r American stu­"Personality" and will be looking A Faculty Overnight directed by 
dents who wish to earn part of their for people to string for them in the Frs. David Burrell and John Ger~er degree credit at a foreign univer­midwest. will be held on Feb. 8-9. It will be sity. For further information call or Christine Lyons majored in held at a lakefront home in Michi­write. CCEA. Beaver College, English at St. Mary's and John was gan City and is open to all facult". Glenside. PA 19038, (215) 884-3500 a communications major (now Reservations can be made in the 
ext. 205. American Studies) at Notre Dame. Campus Ministry office. (6536) 
Senior Class Fellow!!!!! 
a Muhammad Ali aBarbara Jordan 
a Woody Allen aHenry Kissinger 
aAlexander Solzhenitsyn 
a Gerald Ford aGany Trudeau 
aBobHope a Bob Woodward 
& Carl Bernstein 

Vote Tuesday 



by Marti Hogan St. Mary's Editor 

St. Mary's Career Development Center (CDC) has initiated a new program this semester to assist freshmen and sophomores in career planning. 
The program, Introduction to Career Planning, is co-sponsored by Cindy Jones, senior CDC intern and Bill Schmul, business depart­ment chairman. 
An· R.A. for freshmen, Jones noted that many were confused about the relation between their majors and desired careers. "I felt there was a need for something new to help them plan for the future," Jones explained. 
According to Jones, too many students choose a major for the wrong reasons. "You should go into a major if yot• like it, not because you think it's the only way you'll find a job," she said. 
The program will introduce to students all the career alternatives available in a specific major. "Many students go into business because they feel it's the only way to get a job," Jones said, "but any major can be successful." Jones added that job experience as well as skills and hobbies can be developed outside of a major. 
Introduction to Career Planning will consist of discussions led by Jones on how to choose a major, what to look for in a summer job and how to develop skills and interests. Jones will encourage students to follow up the discus­sions by attending the CDC work­shops and using the CDC library. 
Karen O'Neil, CDC director, stressed the importance of the program. "We want to aid them 
now so they won't be in the panic a 
lot of seniors are in," O'Neil said. 
. Students will be informed by 
their R.A.'s of the date and time of 
the discussion for their section. 
All underclassmen are eligible to 
Classified Ads 
NOTICES Found--set of GM car keys in fronto TYPING-35 cents a page. Call Dan: of Flanner. Call Mike 1598. 272-5549. Timex gold watch with blue face and Tickets fbr 1 the Feb. 23 Bruce gold band, it is a calendar watch Springstein and The E Street Band with day of month only. If found call concert at the Auditorium Theatre in · 
Brian 283-3793. Chicago are now on sale at}he River 
City ticket outlets: Jusr Fori the Lost-one pair of glasses at SMC Record (1 00 Center} and BdO(iie after Second City on Sat. ninht. Call Records (College Square}. 
288-7354. . 
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND $20-150. 1 Day wait. 1 percent interest. Du.e in 30 days. LaFortune Basement. WANTED M-F. 11:15-12:15. 
Wanted--used Calc;u 1ator, full func­Accurate, Fast Typino, Mrs. Dono­tion. Call Tim, 3578. 1· ho. 232-07 46. Hours--8 am to 8 pm. 
Need housemate for 0-C. i6o ~ USED BOOKS. BOOK BARN. 1 ' month and utilities. 289-6929. mile North of Notre Dame. 272-5520 
NEED RIDE TO CHICAGO FEB.ll Papers professionally typed. Tele­(FRIDAY}. CALL PATTY 6739. phone evenings 272.-8308. 
The Neon Wilde Band: Now avail­able for parties, concerts, formals, FOR SALE etc. Call 7996 9-5 or 277-3448 after 
5. 4 Fur Coats--Mouton Lamb, Beaver 
Mink, Muskrat. Call291-2258 morn­Will teach you flute in your spare ings. time. Call Beth 8112. 
AUDIO OUTLET: top name stereo Completely furnished houses rann­equipment. WHOLESALE. Call283­ing form two to seven bedrooms 1181 available for summer or next Sept­ember. Call 234-9364. Mrs Hum­For Sale: University renulation size buger. refrigerator. call 1693 between 7.12 evenings. 
FOR RENT 

PERSONALS Two bedroom house to rent. Summer and'llr school year. 1012 Wrestler Joe, we're proud to know 
Eddy Street. $120 month plus a "macho" jock. Best of Luck, Doc, utilities. Call Oddies Harris at Pat/Deb. 232-8563. "'---------------------------------------------­Check out the Village Inn's Bucket 
2 Rooms $40 a month. 233-1329. Brigade. (Hickory Road only} Mem­bership entitles you to: 1 bucket of beer (5'1• Litres}, 5 
$1 .00-off coupons for 16 inch pizza, LOST AND FOUND 1personalized Metal Bucket to hann permanently from our ceilinn with
' 

LOST: Highschool Ring, Lost some-your name and date of membership. hwere on campus Jan. 25-28. GATE­All foronly$7 :95. WAY SENIOR HIGH SCHOOL, RED STONE class of 1976, sin­MARY+ STILL LOOKING FOR nature· inside band. if found' . call YOUR YOU-KNOW-WHAT. WE 1506 and ask for Tim. Reward. MAY HAVE TO STROH A PARTY 
Thank You. AND TRY TO FIND IT. G.O.P. 
·········-­

Do you have my green coat? 1 have Feelin!l depressed? ND-SMC Hot­y,,,,;_ Lc.~t .~· iln off campus party line, 4 4311 open ni'lhls. lih1 ·;it>urd<Jy ~i:thl. Call5128 smc. 
·------~----------------------------------~ 
8 the observer Monday, February 7, 1977 
------------------. 
Irish unbeaten string reaches ten 
by Ted Roblllllon Sports Writer 

It was another routine weekend for the Notre Dame hockey team. 
The Irish traveled to Minneap­olis, where the weather was consid­erably better than in South Bend, and met a Minnesota Gopher team whose play belied their seventh­place standing. In an outstanding hockey series, Notre Dame skated away with three points by virtue of a 3-2 win Friday rught and a 3-3 tie Saturday night. 
However, the weekend proved somewhat frustrating for the Irish. Despite increasing their unbeaten streak in the WCHA to 10 games, first-place Wisconsin gained a­nother point on the Irish after their weekend sweep of Michigan. Notre Dame now trails the Badgers by 7 points and leads third-place Denver by 6 points. 
For all the great efforts put forth by the Irish skaters this weekend, a freshman goalie named Paul Jos­wiak did his best to ruin the stay for Notre Dame. Joswiak's weekend performances totaled 78 saves in 84 shots. 
For the third time fu the last month, Don Fairholm played ~he role of the hero as he culminated a three-goal Irish comeback to notch the game-winner with just 1:33 
remaining in Friday's contest. 
After an early goal by Notre Dame's Terry Fairholm was dis­allowed because Fairlolm had dir­ected the puck in with his skate, Minnesota struck twice for an early 2-0 lead. 
The first Gopher goal came as a result of a 3-on-2 break engineered by Mark Lambert. Ken Yackel passed to Bruce Lind who fired from point-blank range. Len 
Moher made the stop but Lambert tipped home the rebound . · 

The second gval came on the most controversial play of the . series. Tom Vannelli dJ;illed a wrist shot from 20 feet away towards the top of the net. The puck bounced off either the crossbar of the metal 
.in the back of the net. While the red light flashed and the Gopher players celebrated, referee Medo Martinello signaled no goal and a faceoff in the Irish end. 
After five minutes of vehement 
protests from the Minnesota play­
ers, the referees reversed their 
decision and awarded Vannelli the 
goal. 
Down two goals, the Irish re­fused to panic and continued to apply pressure through forecheck­ing. Yet, J oswiak kept them off the board until midway through the second period, and it took a two-man power play for the Irish to score. Greg Meridith did the honors, tipping home a Brian Walsh shot from the face-off circle. 
Two minutes later, Ted Weltzin 
evened the score by drilling a low 
bullet from the slot through Jos­
wiak's pads. Don Jackson had 
made the play by centering the 
puck perfectly at the blue line for 
Weltzin. It was an especially 
pleasing goalfor Ted who played 
on the same line in high school with 
highly-recruited Minnesota fresh­
man Rob McClanahan. 
When the third period began, Notre Dame completely bottled up the Minnesota offense with their effective forechecking style. 
"We use a closest-man rotating style of forechecking,'' commented Notre Dame Coach Lefty Smith. "Our closest man penetrates and tries to force a pass, then our other two men react accordingly." 
It took almost the entire third 
period to break through Joswiak, 
but Don Fairholm finally scored 
Irish claw Wildcats 
by Fred Herbst The game's statistics were rea­r --Sports Editor sonably even as the Irish shot ·49 percent from the field while the
' 
I Wildcats hit 42 percent. TurnoversI Notre Dame used a balanced were also nearly even as Notre 
' 
scoring attack and awesome dom­Dame turned the ball over 13 times ination of the backboards to cruise as compared to 17 for their hosts. I' to a 88-57 romp over Davidson in Rebounding spelled the differ­I 
Greensboro, N.C. Saturday. ence as the Irish held a final 53-25I Led by Duck Williams' 16 points, edge, and totally dominated the f the Irish placed five players in boards in the second half as they 
double figures en route to their extended their 45-30 halftime leadI 12th win in 17 outings, Toby to a 31-point margin and coasted toI Knight, Dave Batton and Bill victory.
I 
I 
Paterno each added 15 markers for Knight led the Irish in rebound­the Irish while Bruce Flowers threw ing with 14. 
in 11. The win was the fourth straight just 90 seconds before overtime. Again, Don Jackson made the play by keeping the puck in the Gopher zone. Jackson fed Clark Hamilton in the slot. Clark slid the puck to Fairholm, who capitalized on Jos­wiak's weakness of kicking re­bounds directly back to the shooter. 

Saturday night, the Irish got on the board first. Walsh, the WCHA's leading scorer, took a drop pass from Hamilton on the power play, and beat Joswiak from the faceoff circle. However, fresh­man Tim Harrer evened the score just 13 seconds later on a centering pass from Jim O'Neil. 
Minnesota Coach Brooks skated 9 freshmen Saturday night due to injuries and a suspension levied against Lambert and defenseman Jim Boo for curfew violations Friday night. Through constant shuffling, Brooks was able to keep fresh players on the ice constantly which provided for a better all­around effort by the Gophers. 
For the second time in as many nights, the score was 2-2 going into the third period. This time, the Irish got an early break as Walsh collected his second goal of the night and 28th of the season as he tipped in a shot by Dick Howe. 
It seemed as if the Irish would be 
able to protect the lead but a 
holding call against Paul Clarke 
midway through the period gave 
the Gophers an opportunity to 
establish play in the Notre Dame 
zone. After Clarke stepped back on 
the ice, Peter Hayek sent a shot 
towards the net from the point. 

Before it reached Peterson, O'Neil 
changed ts course for his first goal 
at Minnesota. 

Later in the period, the Gophers came within inches of winning when Vannelli hit the post from close range. 
In overtime, each team had some 
good scoring opportunities but Joswiak and Peterson rose to the occasion with outstanding saves. For the game, Joswiak had 43 ·saves and Peterson, in perhaps his 
finest game of the year, had 33. 

For Smith, the series was a 
welcome change from the festiv­
ities of the previous weekend in 
Colorado Springs. 

"It was an excellent college 
hockey series," Smith said. 

•'There was good skating, good passing, excellent goaltending, and a lot of hitting, yet it was very cleanly played." 
Notre Dame's chase of Wiscon­sin continues this weekend when the Fighting Sioux of North Dakota visit the A.C.C. Game time both nights is 7:30p.m. 

john Peterson stopped 33 shots in a pressure-packed 3-3 tie. [photo by leo Hansen I 
WCHA Standi,ngs 
. 

w  L  T  PTS  
Wisconsin  20  4  0  40  
Notre Dame  16  7  1  33  
Denver  13.  10  1  27  
North Dakota  13  11  0  26  
Michigan Tech  12  11  1  25  
Michigan  12  12  0  24  
Minnesota  9  12  3  21  
Michigan State  9  16  1  19  
Colorado College  8  17  1  17  
Minnesota-Duluth  5  17  2  12  

Last Weekend's Results 
Notre Dame 3-3 Mich. St. 6-8 Minnesota 2-3 Minn-Duluth 3-3 
Wisconsin 3-11 

2-8 Next Weekend's 
Michigan 

Mich. Tech 5-6 Games Col. Coli. 3-5 North Dakota at Notre Dame 
Denver at Michigan Denver 5-4 Michigan Tech at Wisconsin N.Dakota 2-3 Minnesota at Minnesota-Duluth 
Winning streak reaches 54 
by Paul Stevenson Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame fencing team extended their winning streak to 54 as they won three more matches, downing Milwaukee Area Tee~ni­cal College, University of Minne­sota. and Wisconsin Parkside by the identical scores 23-4. 
The foil specialists fenced their way to wins of 8-1, 9-0 and 8-1 over MATC, Minnesota, and WP re­spectively. "The foil team is fencing like l thought they were capable of in the beginning of the season," Head Coach Mike De­Cicco commented. "The team is a very experienced and talented group." 
Pat Gerard is now 15-0 on the season in foil. Gerard's string of ten consecutive S-0 bouts was ended this weekend when the first touch was scored against him in eleven matches. 
The Irish sabre team performed equally as well, as they swash­buckled their way to a 6-3 victory over MATC. 7-i over Minncsoti. and 8-1 over WP. 
Once again this year, sophomore Mike Sullivan is leading the way for the sabre experts. Sullivan is 20-0 on the season and has easily handled every opponent. 
The sophomore will face a critical . test this weekend when he meets Wayne State's NCAA champion Urri Rabinowitz. The two special­ists split in regular competition last season, giving Sullivan his only college defeat. 
The Notre Dame epee specialists fenced superbly as they fought their way to a 9-0 win over MATC, and 7-2 victories over both Minne­sota and WP. 
This year finds Captain Tim Glass leading the epee team once more. Glass' record stands at 17-2. 
The Fighting Irish will travel to Chicago this weekend as they take on Northwestern Friday night and prepare for the University of De­troit, University of Chicago. Winn­epeg University and Wayne State on Saturday. 
Skiers finish 3rd and 5th 

The ski team returned last weekend from their fourth meet of the season, held at C'rvstal Mountain in Traverse City. Michigan. The men's team placed third out of ten teams, while the women finished a solid fifth. 
~ 
By scoring 15, Paterno increased his career point total to over a f thousand. He is only the 20th I player in Notre D~Jme history to 
' reach the 1,000-point mark in his career. 
r 
for Notre Dame, while Davidsons's Women cagers w· 
record fen to 5-16. In John Gerdy paced the Wildcats with 23 ppints, but it was nowhere 
by Gus Anderson near enough to keep Davidson in Sports Writer the tilt as the Wildcats never led. 

Friday afternoon, the ACC pit was the scene for the Irish women's victory against St. Joseph's Com­munity College, their third in a row this semester. 
Both teams started off slowly, and after ten minutes the score was only 6-4, Notre Dame. But after trading baskets. St. Joe's went on a quick hot streak and sank three in a row with an added foul shot to take the lead 13-8. 
Quickly, the Irish turned the momentum around and burned the nets for six straight goals behind the offensive engineering of Carol Lally and Carola Cummings. 
Momentum seemed to shift away from the Irish again until Ann Berges hit an incredible turn­around jumper from the corner, right before the close of the half to regain the Irish spark and give them an 8 point lead. 
In the end, Notre Dame ran the lead up to 15 points, closing the game at 57-43. 
Lally was high scorer with 17 points, followed by Cummings who had 13. Lally and Sue Kunkel led in rebounding for the home team accumulating 7 each. The Irish women's record now stands at a solid 5 and I. 



