----~---· 

server 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's 
Vol. XII, No. 46 Friday, November 11, 1977 

Shuttle route altered 
By Mike Villani and Chris Datzman and John Ryan, administrative Staff Reporters assistant to the Notre Dame SBP, · calling for volunteer student pa­
As a direct result of the recent double rape on the Notre Dame campus, the Notre Dame-St. Mary's evening shuttle will reroute to include the road between the two campuses. 
Included in the new route is an additional stop behind Old College building on St. Mary's road. the scheduling. effective this evening. will consist of stops at the Notre Dame Circle. the Mcnwrial Librarv. the Grotto. Old College and St. Marv'\. The hu!> wili no longer travel the previou~ An~ela· U.S. 31 route. 
The re-route propo~al originated from Arthur N. Pears. director of Notre Dame security. after evalu­ating earlier suggestion~ from the St. Mary's Student Government trols along the road. Pears pointed out to Ryan the impracticalities in 
organizing and maintaining such a program such as scheduling dependable volunteer workers and keeping them interested. He then suggested rerauting the bus to increase traffic along the lane and as an alternative to walking it at night. 
The proposal was discussed and approved last night at a meeting between Bro. Viator Grazeskowiak, budget co-ordinator of Student Affairs and Notre Dame and St. Mary'!> student government repre­sentatives. 
Along with the approval of the alternate rome, St. Mary's Student Body President Mary Rukavina suggested other possible security measures along the road. "These 

Police consider rape suspects 
by Ann Gales 
Senior Staff Reporter 
According to Detective Sergeant John McAllister of the St. Joseph's County Detective division. police are "considering a couple of sus­pects'' in the case of the rape of two St. Mary's students Tuesday night. McAllister, who is heading the police investigation, said that no other leads on the case have developed. 
Director of Notre Dame Informa­
tion Services Richard Conklin 
reported that the two victims were 
re-interviewed yesterday morning 
by McAllister and Notre Dame 
Security in order to get a more 
thorough description of the assail­
ant. "Other than the description, 
police really have nothing to go 
on," he said. 
Conklin explained that, as in all 
felonies that occur on campus, 
Security will assist the St. Joseph County Sheriff's Office in solving the case. "However, the police have the investigative responsibil­ities and they are really in charge," he stated. 
Arthur Pears, director of Notre Dame Security commented, "We're doing everything we can to help the police in their investiga­tion." 
Pears revealed that the Security car that patrols the road between St. Mary's and Notre Dame passed by the scene of the rape while the crime was occurring. "The girls reportedly saw the patrol car pass by," he said. "However, the officer couldn't see into the dark field and there were no screams so he had no way of knowing what was going on." 
Because of Tuesday's incident, .>t. Mary's is considering plans to increase campus security, accord­ing to St. Mary's Dean of Student would include security runs every ten minutes from 6 pm to midnight,'' she explained. ''In addition, funds would be made available through St. Mary's for hiring students to patrol the road on foot." 
Ryan commented that they would also approach the grounds crew about keeping the tree limbs around the light fixtures trimmed to provide maximum lighting. 
According to Ryan, both state and local police should be more alert to theirpresence of vacant cars in and around the area of St. Mary's road. He also warned students not to walk between the two campuses, but to wait at one of the stops until the bus arrives, "eventhough the time scheduling may vary between 2 and 3 minutes for the first few days." 
Any student with further sugges­tions for improved security should call the Ombudsman (6283). 

Affairs Kathleen Rice. One of these plans, Rice said, is to hold lectures on self-defense and secur­This student, panick-stricken and confused by South Bend's first ity measures for campus at various snowfall, ran north for shelter. Maybe for the warmth of the times throughout the school year. grotto? [Photo by Ken MeAl 
Library construction postponed 
by Kathryn Jurgins 
Construction of a new library at St. Mary's, either south of Made­leva or in the Le Mans parking lot, is being detained by a lack of funds. Dr. J. Duggan, president of St. Mary's College, made this clear to the Faculty Assembly yesterday. 
In a speech reporting the "news" from the Board of Re­gents, Duggan stated that in raising funds for the new library he realizes that contributors could have "interests other than the 


Although the 1977 version of the Notre Dame football team has become well known due to their wearin' of the green, the brilliant gold helmets have always been a symbol of the Irish gridders. The Notre Dame student managers guaranteP
--....-_,,, ........ 
that this tradition is upheld every week. These dedicated students make sure that every -game helmet receivers four full coats of fresh gold paint to insure that the gold will be gleaming fOF--J.ickoff time every Saturday. [Photo bv Ken McAipinej. 
library. We will keep our shopping list ready for any future condsider­ations that may require funding," he said. 
According to Duggan' 'the day of the large national campaign is over." The new substitute fund raising program is the Annual Capital Fund. This fund raising is done on a year round basis. It in no way diminishes our annual en­dorsements where 90 per cent of all funds are received from five to ten percent of the people. 
In the past a comprehensive budget was brought before the Board of Regents for a "yes -no" decision. Because of "uncertain effects in planning the financial future of the college" Duggan called for consideration of these uncertainties in future budget plan­ning procedures. 
In other business, significant increase in student tuition will become effective next year. A chart based on tuition Increases, compiled by the Independent Col­leges and Universities in the State of Indiana, has St. Mary's situated third from the bottom. St. Mary's tuition has only increased 28.5 per cent between the years of 1972 ­1977. 

We are "underpricing our edu­cation" stated Duggan. He named several other colleges: DePaw, Franklin, Notre Dame, and Wa­bash by which St. Mary's compares itself in terms of employee funding, salaries, financial planning, etc. According to Duggan, Si. Mary's is less costly. 
Duggan briefly commented on the diminishing numbers of partici­pants in the co-exchange program, the re-naming of St. Mary's Secur­ity System as the "Campus Police Force." He also added that the ND-SMC students in Ireland were adjusting very well. 
Club relocation tentative in LaFortune Center plans 
by Florenceann Strlgle 
No club will lose its space in LaFortuneStudent Center because of renovation, according Bro. Just Paczesny, vice-president for stu­dent Affairs. 
Although Darby's Place may have to relocate in the building, Paczesny did remark that Fr. Robert Griffin, University chaplain, would probably not let the renova­tion interfere with his nightly vigil in LaFortune. 
''The locations are merely tenta­tive," emphasized Paczesny. "They face the approval of our benefactors and need funding." He added that plans will be enacted "only as far as the money goes." 
As now slated, the basement will undergo the most extensive reno­vation. Where the billards ana ping pong rooms are now located, a pub 

serving food and refreshments, 
including beer for 21-year-old 
customers, is planned. The pres­
ent locations of the Nazz and the 
InternationaJ Student Union will be 
replaced by billards and ping pong 
rooms. Darby's will be made into 
separate rooms and the study areas 
located on the south side of the 
floor will house Campus Press. 
Other additions include a stage for 
entertainment purposes. 
On the first floor, the manager's 
office and the Student Activities 
Offices will remain the same. 
However, the lobby will be refur­
nished with tables and chairs. The 
alcove off the lobby will become the 
International Student Union, and 
the theatre will become a dinin.~: 
room. On the opposite side of tht . floor, the Dooley room will be turned into a delicatessen. [continued on.page 5! 

~ ----~-----~ 
---------------:------:-­

-~~----------~-------~------------­
2 the observer Friday, November 11, 1977 

On Campus Today _ ____,_, 
friday, november 11 
2 pm 
3:30pm 
4:30pm 
5:15pm 7 pm 7 & 10 pm 
7&10 pm 
7:30pm 7:30pm 
8 pm 9:30pm 
saturday, november 12 
9am 
11 am 
1 pm est 7&10 pm 7:30pm 
8 pm 
8:30pm­1 am 
9-11 pm 
sunday, november 13 
3&7 pm 
4 pm 7 pm 
I 
7:30pm 8 pm 
7 pm 



r!~~d:.,~~~~~~;rl
Asst. Night Editor: Kathy Mills Layout Staff: Bob Brink Editorial Layout: Rick LaBelle Features Layout: Drew Bauer Sports Layout: Paul Stevenson Typists: Tom Powanda, Mardi NPvin, Mark Rust E.M.T.: Rich Clarizio, Karen Ch1ames Day Editor: Kate Flynn Copy Rl.'ader: Chris Datzman M1kt· Villani Ad Layout: Greg Trzupek 
lPhotographer: Ken McAipinJ 
i ·Saturday Special 
at Louies .
S
tartmg at Kickoff Time cc D f 
• 2J ra tS • 
. 
&.JJ.ctY.~..a..£_~.~.,. too...........~ ...,..,..-.~····~ ............................ . 
colloqium "public policy and political theory" by prof. fred dahlmayer, purdue univ., sponsored by gov. dept., rm. 1224 mem. lib. 
pespectives in philosophy lecture, "justice, markets and individuals" by prof. alasadair macintyre, spon­sored by phil. dept. mem. lib. lounge. 
colloquim, "the theory of chi-squares tests of fit" by prof. david moore, purdue univ., sponsored by math dept., rm. 226 ccmb. 
mass and supper, bulla shed. 
bible study, campus crusade for christ, lib. lounge. 
concert, blues festival sposored by c.a.c., stepan centl:r, also nov. 12, $4 fri, $5 sat, $7 both days. 
film, "all the president's men", sponsored by student union, eng. aud. $1. 
hockey, nd vs. u. of wisconsin, home. 
films, numerous short subjects, sponsored by lemans soc. comm., little theatre. 
show, "fantastics", student players, sponsored by soc. comm., walsh hall, $1. 
nazz, performance by jeanie ritter, basement of 
Iafortune. 
meeting, management conference, sponsored by bus. and econ. dept., carroll hall, smc 
seminar "a national church: catholic search for identity, 1820-1939" by prof. patrick carey, gustavas, aldolphus college, rm. 600 mem. lib., call history dept. to register. 
football, nd. vs. clemson away 
film "all the presidents men", eng. aud., $1. 
concert, blues festival, stepan center, $5 
show, "fantastics", student players, sponsored by soc. comm., walsh hall $1. 
disco party and dance contest, sponsored by beat (black cultural arts festival) fashion show comm. winners receive 2 hall and oates tickets, Iafortune ballroom, $_50. 
nazz, joe bauer and sally dentz, basement of Iafortune. 
film, "seven samurai", sponsored by std. union, eng. aud., free. 
meeting, world hunger coalition, lib. lounge. 
latin american week film "five minutes to midnight", sponsored by the latin am. info services, lib. aud. and lounge. 
basketball, nd intersquad charity game, $1. 
concert, new arts trio, sponsored by smc dept. of music. little theatre. 
meeting, for library and Iafortune venders of cila christmas cards, sponsored by cila, volunteer services office, Iafortune. 

The Notre [)~me ( ul!llrJI .o\rr-t -••mm"""n Pr.,..-m' 
w 
..J 
~ 
en 
~ 
a: 
w 
1­
z
-
3: 

The National Shakespeare Company O'Laughlin Auditorium Sr Mary's ColJege 
w 

Monday 14 November at eighr pm Tickers available at rhe ND Student Union & 
:I: 

O'Laughlin Box Offices One dollar fifty 
1­

Full employment bill awaiting endorsement from Carter 
WASHINGTON [AP] President Carter, moving toward public en­dorsement of a compromise ''full employment" bill, said yesterday that federal jobs programs will begin having their full impact early next year. 
Carter told a nationally broadcast news conference the battle against 7 percent unemployment, the cur­rent level, is "a tedious, slow process," but one he viewed with optimism. 
The president also said he ex­pects to announce "within the next few days" his backing for a compromise Humphrey-Hawkins jobs bill that would underscore his belief that "every person in our contry that is able to work ought to have an opportunity for a job." 
Administration sources said the 
NRC announces awards for postdoctoral research 
The National Research Council has announced the NRCResearch Associateship Programs for 1978. These programs provide opportun­ities for postdoctoral research in many fields of atmospheric & earth sciences -chemistry -engineering ­environmental sciences -life sci­ences -mathematics -physics -and space sciences. 
Appointments are awarded on a competitive basis to recent recipi­ents of the doctorate and in :some programs to senior investigators. Certain programs are open to non-U.S. nationals as well as to 


ERRATUM 
The speaker in the page-three picture in yesterday's Observer identified as Professor Goodpaster was in fact Professor Alsdair Macintyre. Macintyre gave a lecture Wednesday entitled "Jus­tice, Community and Desert," sponsored by the philosophy de­partment. 
The Observer Is published Mon­day through Friday except durin,g exam and vacation periods. Tl!e Observer Is published by the students of Not111 Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for no per year IS 1 0 per semester) from The Observer, P.O. Box Q, . Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Indiana, 46556. 
Thtt Observer Is a member of tn11 Associated Pnt11. All repro­duction rlghtl are reaerved. 
bill would fix a goal of 4 percent unemployment within five years, without mandating specific steps to bring that about. The compromise also would require the president to report to Congress periodically on efforts to reach the 4 percent objective. 
Sen. Harrison A. Williams Jr. (D-N.J.), chairman of the Senate Human Resources Committee which will consider the bill next year, said "the level of coopera­tion between the president and the sponsors of the original . bill is a major turning point in the battle to restore the nation's economic vital­
ity.,_ 
During his half hour encounter with reporters, Carter also made these points: 
-Fresh violence near the border 
U.S. citizens. Stipends (subject to income tax) will begin at $17,000 a year. Grants will be provided for family relocation and for profes­sional travel during tenure. 
Postmark deadline for applica­tions is January IS, 1978. Awards will be announced in April. The NRC administers the Research Associateship Programs in cooper­ation with selected federal research organizations which have labora­tories at about 65 geographic locations in the United States. Approximately 250 new awards will be made in 1978. 
Prospective applicants may re­quest application forms and infor­mation from the Associateship Office, JH 606-p, National Re­search Council, 2101 Constitution Avenue, N.W., Washington, D.C. 

between Israel and Lebanon under­scores the need for early convening of a Geneva conference on Middle East peace efforts because ''the whole thing is just sitting and teetering on another outbreak of even more major violence." 
-The principles of a national health program, including health insurance proposals, will be made public early in 1978. Specifics of a tax revision blueprint remain unde­cided. Carter said he wants 
"another month or so to assess the changes" in economic prospects, and to review tax related aspects of energy and Social Security legisla­tion nearing final congressional action. 
-Reports of discord between the president and Chairman Arthur F. Burns of the Federal Reserve Board "are completely errone· ous." Carter said, "I don't think I have any inclination to criticize the actions that have been taken by Mr. Burns." White House aides later said Carter did not mean there have not been policy disagreement between the president an Burns. They said Carter simply meant there was nothing personal about the disagreements. 
-On the no-contest conviction of former CIA Director Rit·hard Helms, accused of failing to testify fully before a Sentae committee. Carter said, "It is not a badge of honor and a public official does not have a right to lie." A lawyer for Helms had said the case was a badge of honor for a client who purportedly rated his CIA secracy oath as taking precedence over the requirements of the Senate com­mittee. 

Monty Python PRICE!
MIDNITE SHOWS 

with Special Guest Star ERIC CARMEN 
also appearing NETWORK SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 8:00P.M~­NOTRE DAME A.C.C. All Seats Reserved: $7.00 and $6.00 Tickets on sale at: 
• 
Notre Dome A C C Box Olhce • Sl Joseph Bonk & Brooches • hrsr Bonk-Mom off•ce only Sol 9 to 5 -• RIVer Crty Records • Suspended Cord m Elkhorl 

• 
Studenr Un1on T•ckel Otf•ce • Boog1e Records • Elkhart Truro 

• 
Robertson s·S B & Concord Moll • Jus! lor lhe Record • Record Jomt -N•les 


Friday, November 11, 1977 

the observer 


Popular courses close as seniors preregister 
Kevin Walsh Senior Staff Reporter 
"If only it weren't for second semester seniors" is the predomi­nant feeling as preregistration enters its second day. All of the perennial favorite courses as well as a few new ones are closed. 
A smaller than usual crowd of between 200 and 300 seniors were waiting in the cold at the LaFortune signup center when it opened at 8 o'clock, according to LaFortune manager Bro. Francis Gorch. "Everything went smoothly," noted Gorch. "There was no pushing, swearing, or shoving, and with the exception of those waiting in line for English courses, all lines were confined within the student center once the building opened." 
All department heads contacted were also in general agreement that preregistration went well. They noted, however, that most of the more popular courses are either closed or have just a couple of openings left. 
In the Art department, all sec­tions of Photography I and II closed immediately for seniors, as usual. Each section has two spots re­served for juniors, however. Other popular courses now closed in the department include Visual Com­munications, Visual Dialogue, and Ceramics. Wood sculpture and Water color, new offerings in the department, are also filled. 
English was also very popular with seniors as eleven courses closed out, most before noontime. No longer available are: Fiction Writing, section 62; Non-Fiction Writing; Writing Essays; Poetry, sections 61 and 63; Arthurian Legends; Dante-Divine Comedy; Blake's Prophetic Books; Advanced Prose Writing, British Literary History II; Theology and Literature Seminar; and Literature and Imagi­nation. 
Professor Weber, Chairman of the American Studies department, announced that all but two courses in the department are closed. The only openings are American Best Sellers and American Thought and culture. 
Weber stated that more courses are usually available for non­majors, but that next semester two professors from the department will be on sabatical, thus meaning that five fewer courses are avail­able for the spring semester. Weber did note that all seniors got the courses which they wanted, and next fall the department will again have a full complement of courses. 
The Theology department ex­perienced a big rush early in the morning. The three courses that closed are: Moral Responsibility; 
Korczyk replaces Moore as head of Committee 'W' 
Kathleen Connelly Staff Reporter 
Dr. Sophie Korczyk has assumed the position of chairperson of the Committee on the Status of Women of the Notre Dame chapter of the American Association of University Professors (AAUP). 
Recommended to the post from within the Committee itself, Kor­czyk, assistant professor of Finance and Business Economics, replace Prof. Carol Moore of the History Department, who left the Univer­sity last year. 
The purpose of the AAUP as stated by Korczyk is to protect and advance the interests of University faculty, and to intervene in their behalf when circumstances re­quire. 
The Committee on the Status of Women, or Committee "W", add­dresses itself to women's interests in particular and examines the position of women in academics. The committee is, in effect, "a professional reference group on campus women faculty.'' Korczyk stated. Committee "W" meets informally twice a month to provide a place for exchange of ideas and an opportunity for representing the views of female staff members both to the executive chapter of the AAUP and to the Administration. 
In the past, Committee "W" has been instrumental in effecting changes in University policy re­garding faculty. One such change was the formulation of policy involving part-time regular faculty 
Orientation series to begin process of RA applications 
There will be a series of orienta­tion meetings next week to mark the opening of the resident advisor application process for the 1978-79 school year. 
Interested sophomores and juniors are required to attend one of the three meetings to be held November 13, 14 and 15 from 6:00-7:00 p.m. in Stapleton Lounge, LeMans Hall. At this time, applications will be available and information provided to acquaint students with the process. 
Deadline for picking up applica­tions is Tuesday, November 15. For further information contact residence hall advisors. 
who are both career women and homemakers. 
''As a group interested in actions involving women, Committee "W" is extremely concerned about the security situation on campus." Korczyk said. She added that the Committee is also aiding the Uni­versity in attempts to-attract women staff members to the Notre Dame faculty. 
"Successfully making Notre Dame a place for women," she explained, "involves taking a close 
look  at  all  areas  which  involve  
women."  
Korczyk  graduated  from  Le  

Moyne University in Syracuse, 
N.Y. and holds masters and doc­toral degrees from Washington University in St. Louis. She has taught at Notre Dame for the past five years. 
Food, Population, and Energy; and 
the 10 o'clock section of Modern 
Decision Making in the Christian 
Tradition. It was also announced 
yesterday that Fr. Burtchaell's 
Theology of Grace was closed, but 
Burtchaelldecided to accept more 
students in the class, so there are 
now nine more openings in that 
course. 
Only three courses in the Phil­
osophy department are ftlled, but 
several others are near capacity. 
Those closed are: Philosophy of 
Religion, History of Modern Phil­, osophy, and Ethical Theory: 
Aristotle and Kant. Most of the 
other offerings have plenty of openings, ·especially the 8 o'clock ing which are open are: Taxes, section of Philosophy of Law. Intermediate Accounting, and Cost 

All government courses are open Accounting. The courses open to with the one exception of Prof. non-business majors will be closed Goerner's Literature and Politics before publication of toaday's Ob-I-The Camus. server. 
In the Business department, all Finally, the Economics depart-students in each major have their ment announced that Economics of major courses. Only five business Consumption, Intermediate Eco-. courses are available to non-busi-nomic Theory-Macro, .Collective ness majors. Dean Vincent Ray-Bargaining,. and a six week course mond said, ''five is the best that we called Self 9overning Society are all can do. Our first job is to satisy closed. First to close was the class those in the major.'' in Economic Theory. 
Four out of five courses open are Preregistration will continue to-in Accounting. Assoc. Prof. Robert day for juniors from 8 a.m. to 4 Williamson said that three courses p.m., and on Monday during the for Business majors not in Account-same hours for sophomores. 

Scientists inv!lnt s_pace suit committee okays for boy who l1ves 1n bubble new program for 
HOUSTON[AP]-The scientist who sent man to the moon have developed a "space suit" that will permit a Houston boy to wander from the plastic bubble in which he has spent all of his six years. Researchers at the National Aer­onautics and Space Administration (NASA), using what they've learned frc.m space projects, per­
fected an arrangement in which David can crawl down a plastic tunnel and into the germ free suit 
that will make him an astronaut on his own planet. 
For the first time, he will be able to look out the window of his hospital room, walk the corridors of the hospital, play catch with his 9-year-old sister and do his school­work at a desk. 
Experts also said he will be able to communicate more directly with his doctors, nurses and family. 
David-whose full name has not been released-suffers from a disease known as severe combined immune deficiency. His body has no defense against germs or bac­teria. What would amount to sniffles for a normal child could be death for David. 
At a news conference yesterday, officials of the Baylor College of Medicine and the Johnson Space Center displayed the ayur BS backup system. · · 
Dr. Bufford L. Nkhols, David's attending 1 .tysician, said: "This is an important feature in the cultural enrichment of the boy. He is now learning the concepts of space, developing ph;rsical skills which cannot be done within the bubble and this is advancing the education 
W. C. Fields Marx Bros. Laurel & Hardy Rascals 3 Stooges 

riday Nov. II 7:30 -10:00' SMC Little Theatre 

Midwest. Blues 
Fri Nov. 11 7:30pm Sat. Nov. 12 
Edith Wilson 
Little Brother Montgomery 
Sonny Terry Brownie McGhee 
Son Seals 
Tickets: Fri. $4 Sat. $5 Both nights $7 
Big Joe Duskin Mighty Joe Young 
Muddy Waters 
ALL TIX SOLD AT DOOR 

Stepan Center 
for this very bright young child." Bill Carmean, project director at NASA for the tiny space suit, said, "I think this shows how we can advance to mankind what we have learned in the space program. This simple space suit can be used, problably, for a variety of diseases. For example, the young leukemia patient who is quite vulnerable to infection during periods of regres­sion." The cost for development of the suit was $20,000. For added protection, it is cov­ered with the same white silky material on real space suits. There are form fitting rubber gloves and shoes and a clear plastic bubble for the head. The suit is all one piece. There is a filter system and a large 
umbilical cord attached to a push 
cart that pumps air into the suit, giving it a slightly inflated appear­ance. ~ 
David can also ride on the push cart if he becomes tired. Doctors said David had first tried out the suit in late July and "the first thing he did was go look in a mirror." 
• 

~merican StudieS 
The curriculum committee at St. Mary's approved for the first time a Certificate and Minor Program for American Studies. The program, scheduled to begin in January, is being offered to encourage and direct students in various aspects of American culture. The organiza­tion of the minor provides substan­tial background and offers the possiblity for pursuing individual interests. 
A total of 21 semester hours will be required for both the Certificate and the Minor; six hours of which must be at the 300 or 400 level. The student will complete six hours in American Literature and six hours in American History. 
Coordinatiors of the program are Dr. Deanna Sokolowski, assistant professor ofEnglish, and Dr. Jack Detzler, professor of history. Students will be required to have their course selections approved by one of the Program Coordinators. 


SENORS 
Join VISTA and thare your Liberal Am experience with Ameria:t's urban & rural~· Your degree in EDUCATION, SOCIAL SCIENCE, HEALTH, BUSINESS ADMIN. PHYS. ED., or RECREAT10N can help solve social, human and environ­mental problems of low-income communities. Sign up at Placement Office fot a talk with fonner VISTA voliJ,nteer on campus: 
November 15-17 

Uhrary Uquor Store 
S~eelall~-­
Old Style 

Natural Ught 

*2.99 -12 ~ek *5.49 -1818 
*3.99 -12 ~ek 
*5.99 -1811 
Gil ol Whlskav, Oln, & V..lca ·-*3.99 
World' Hunger Coalition stresses aid, self-help, development 
by Pat Dermody 
There are three types of relief organizations to which the Notre Dame-St. Mary's Hunger Coalition contributes, according to Student Coordinator Jim Cycon. One is concerned with development and another specializes in emergency aid. The third type of organization is a combination of both. 
''The Coalition deals with all 
three types," Cycon began, "so we 
cover all three aspects of hunge." 
However, the money that the 
ND-SMC Coalition sends to these 
organizations is ll•)t just for food. 
Helen Gallagher, co-ordinator of 
the Hunger Coalition, emphasized 
the importance of a relief agency's 
philosophy of long-term develop­
ment. 
"Besides the food aspect, we look for an identifiable push towards self-help." remarked Gal­lagher. "We also like feedback from an organization in order to show us where and how our money is being used," she continued. 
One organization which the Co­alition deals with is The Oxford Committee for Famine Relief (OXFAM). OXFAM was estab­lished in the early 1950's. Its program focuses on short-term relief, long-term self-help projects, and continuing education on Third 
World problems. "OXFAM's phi­
losophy is much like ours," com­
mented Gallagher. Cycon added 
that 40 percent of the funds raised 
by the ND-SMC Hunger Coalition 
are sent to OXFAM. 
Twenty percent of the money 
collected is distributed to The 
Justice and Peace Center in South 
Bend. This organization also 
employs the self-help policy. In 
addition, they provide the Hunger 
Coalition with an itemized account 
of where their funds are used. 
The remaining money raised by the ND-SMC Hunger Coalition is divided equally between five other relief organizations. These agen­cies include the Cooperative for American Relief Everywhere (CARE), Church World Services, and also the Catholic Relief Ser­vices. 
One recipier.t of which both Cycon and Gallagher spoke very highly is the Chilean Foundation. This is not an agency; it is a project run by the Holy Cross Order. This project "operates under the um­brella of the Catholic Church,'' said Gallagher. Under the Chilean government, a meeting of more than four people which is held without executive permission is illegal. Therefore, "the only way in which the Holy Cross project is allowed to continue is under the 

OPEN: MON-THURS 9AM-11 PM FRI-SAT 9AM-12PM SUN 12NOON-12PM 
PKG. LIQUOR. WINES, BEER & SNACKS BEER SPECIAL EACH WEEK-END 

SMC Social Comm. & McCandless Hall are sponsoring a 
SQUARE DANCE 
Fri. Nov. 11 8:30 -11 pm 
Angela Athletic Facility 
Free fI cider and donuts admission 50' Be there or be n 


SENIORS 
Convert your experience in academia to work in Upper Volta, Chad, Mali, Belize, Togo, Rwanda, Bahrain, Ton­ga, and sixty other nations where people will benefit from your efforts in: education, social work, health, engineering, agriculture and others. Sign up today at the placement office 
for a  talk with  former  Feace  Corps  
Volunteers  on  Campus:  November  
15-17.  

auspices ofthe Church," indicated 
Gallagher. 
Another relief fund which the ND-SMC Hunger Coalition has dealt with is the United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF). This organization was a recipient of money collected by the Coalition for the past two years. This year however, UNICEF will not receive any of the ND-SMC eamings. ''They were cut because Hunger Coalition research revealed that UNICEF had an extremely high overhead cost and poor operating conditions," according to Gal­lagher. 
"Every year we try to review the organizations and evaluate !them," explained Cycon. "What we look for is an organization which can provide us with a good response as to what they do with the money they receive," he concluded. 
B-ball players P<?Se for charity 
by Renee Leuchten 
Students will be able to have their pictures taken with Notre Dame basketball players .at the ACC Sunday from 7-7:30 p.m. Stars such as Duck Williams, Rich Branning, Dave Batton, Bruce Flowers and Bill Laimbeer will be on hand. 
Pictures are SO cents each and proceeds will benefit the Special Olympics for handicapped children and the Neighborhood Study Help Program. The event is sponsored by the Special Projects Committee of Ombudsman. Students should bring their own cameras. 
Students unable to obtain basketball tickets this year will have the chance to see the team in action at the annual benefit intra-squad game sponsored by McDonald Restaurants this Sunday at 7:30 p.m. Tickets are SO cents and stubs can redeemed for a free order of hash browns during break­fast hours at McDonalds. Last year's game netted more than $3,200 for the Special Olympics and Study Help ?rograms. 

~Cellar 
fri & ~ 9am-lhm 
2934 E. Mc:Kiney 
rhcre 233-9466 
Beer s~nl~ 
-Pabs-t case -·~w Strohs case -$-5~ i9 Falstaff case-$5.79 
$5.79 Busch quarts/case $5.85 whiletneylasf! 
-Busch 6 pack $1 .49 Koehler___6_p_a----.ck,-----$.,-------1,-----.4---,--,9=-­
Notre Dame football and basketball s~edule mugs available 99' 
We accept Master Charge & Visa 
Ikounts (>Il Shelf Prices! 
l-4 Bottles ---1o%-off 
5-1 1 Botties ---15% off '12-over Bottles ---20<ro off 
.. 

······'""~Y'VPVlil'i gve seen your p!)sters in my hall but ldon'l know what "Got a question? Call OBUD." I~; thi~; an Inside 
PUP.I!<;t:W.· depatiffl~~t.4~signed the poJ;ters for people who old P.~. itlstucter Noel O'Sullivan says, at least 'll,yierll-.g¢ifre:shl1nan·. int~ll~g~~ce''. Jt's obvious YPQ, \ion~t. o~B-U"D ·· · · remegibe~ our phone-number (6283.). So, next I( cHme yir;)p;Jtl!l-v~.. quest~?'P•.• 9~!tOBUD and you'll be go~den .. Now, 
~~~~···~~~!~·~~~~~~:~lt~~~·~;~~~~:t~,9~~~~ ..Jg'o"ulr''····v~tn<~(..t:· cart ~:~;h:~ 
. h¥sles YQ~ bave ·with the A<ll(rii!tii~1it'at:ion; ~tud~l:lt (i()viei'hrne1nt, Faculty, eM~ · 
L <VYtmi;.@~f;;i1<:J~TJ:est datl:llllre sllited.. fur AprillS and ~ept. 30, 197&. 
yi$it Psycoolqgipa:l ~~rvlces is 
tt.UUO!ltl(ndod 
';) Sf J:lMSUtl ~l{J, 
Rapes terrorize Calif. campus 
SAN JOSE, Calif. [AP] -Police 
said yesterday they believe several 
men are responsible for more than 
30 unsolved rapes or rape attempts 
that have terrorized the area a­
round San Jose State University 
campus this year. The latest rape 
victim was a Roman Catholic nun. 
The university bookstore reports 
that 200 whistles and shrieks 
alarms have been sold this month. 
Police on the campus, where about half of the 28,000 students are women, have started an educa­tional rape prevention program. An emergency phone system has been set up and extra police officers have been hired at the school. 
The sexual assaults have all 
taken place in a sprawling, ethnic­
ally mixed neighborhood 15 blocks 
by eight blocks that surrounds the 
campus near the center of town. 
Seven have taken place on the large 
campus itself. 

The latest attacks-the fourth and fifth this week-occurred Wednes­day. A nun, about 40, was raped in her second floor bedroon at a convent near the campus early in the day. A 25-year-old woman was attacked as she walked a few blocks from campus Wednesday night, but escaped after a struggle. 
Police said the man who attacked the nun entered through a first floor window at the convent. When she awoke, the man was standing over her, holding a heavy, blunt garden tool in a menacing manner, police said . 
Investigators believe the crimes are the work of several men, but say that some of the incidents may be linked. 
~ 

----~-----111111!-----.. 
Friday, November 11, 1977 the observer 
5 

PLACEMENT BUREAU 
Main Building 
INTERVIEWS SCHEDULED FOR WEEK OF NOVEMBER 21 
Interviews are for seniors and graduate students. Sign-up schedules are in Room 213, Main Building. Interview times must be signed for in person. The sign-up period at the Placement Bureau will-be from 8:00a.m. to 5:00p.m., Monday 
through Friday. 
Nov. 21 Mon. 
Nov. 21/22 t1on/Tues 
Nov. 22 Tues. 
General Foods Corporation B in ChE, CE, EE, Engr. Sci, ME. B in Acct or Fin. MBA with Acct or Fin bkgrd. 
Gulf Oil Corporation Cancelled C-E Lummus B in ME. BM in ChE. B in Acct. 
Manufacturers National Bank All BBA. B in Comp Sci. B in Econ w/ business courses. B in Math w/ Acct courses. Primary interest in Bach. candidates, but will interview 
MBA with Fin. bkgrd. University of Chicago. Graduate School of Business All interested candidates. 
Bell Laboratories BM in all technical disciplines. Indiana Bell Telephone Company B in EE, CE, ME, Comp Sci, Math. B in Mgt and Mkt. For: Applications Engineer, Computer Programmer, Sales, Mgt. Trainee. Locations: Indiana. Citizenship required. Southwestern Bell Telephone Company BM in all Engr disciplines. MBA with Camp Sci or 
Math bkgrd. Western Electric Company BM in all Engr disciplines. BM in Comp Sci. 
Fidelity URian Life Bin ALand BA. MBA. (Cancelled 11/21 date.) Naval Avionics Facility BM in EE, ME, Comp Engr. Old Kent Bank and Trust Company All BBA. MBA with Fin or Acct bkgrd or conctrn. Reliance Electric Company 


B in EE, ME, MEIO. 
CAREER DEVELOPMENT CENTER 
ll/14/77 • 11/18/77 
INTERVIEW SIGN-UPS: 
NAME 
~~ 
Manufacturers National Bank Tues. Nov. 22 All Majors 
NCR Corporation '1\les. Nov. 22 Bues/Math/Science 
Open to all majors: BUrroughs-Wellcome will be showing. a slide presentation on their company Monday, Nov. 14 from 1: 30 to 4: 30 in the Student Af'fa.irs Conference Room. The presentation last! 15 to 20 minutes. 
WORKSHOPS:  
!!!!:!!  ~  TIME  ~  ~  
Information  Mon.  ll/14  3-5 p.m.  Karen O'Neil  Stapleton Conference Room  
Work Values  Mon. ll/14  7-9 p.m.  Pa.t McCormack  Holy Cross Parlor  
Assertive Tr.  Tues.  11/15  3-5 p.m.  Suzanne Areson  Student Affairs Gonference Room  
Interview Skills  Tues. 11/15  7-9 p.m.  Kathleen Rossman  Executive Board Room  
Job Search  Tues. ll/15  7-9 p.m.  Ms.ry Laverty  McCandless Piano Room  
Skill Iden.  Wed. ll/16  3-5 p.m.  Leslie Wilson  Student Affairs Conference Room  
Betsy Twitchell  
Job Search  Thurs.  ll/17  3-5 p.m.  Me.ry Laverty  Executive Board Room  
Resume Clinic  Th,;s. ll/17  7-9 p.m.  Mary Ann Daly  McCandless Piano Room  

EVENTS:  
~  ~  TIME  ~  
Music: Education  Mon.  ll/14  8:15 p.m.  talk by  221 Moreau  
Majors  Karen O'Neil  

Blues festival opens tonight 
Sponsored by the Cultural Arts Commission of the Student Union, the Festival is in its seventh ye~r of existence. According to Festival 

Coordinator Bob Kissel, the Festi­val has gained the popularity of Notre Dame students and area residents over the past seven years. It has become an important event, both musically and cultu­rally, in the world of blues music. 
''This is an event students should take a chance on. I've found that when a student comes he usually returns the next year,'' said Kissel. _ 
A highlight of the weekend will by a Saturday performance by a ·well-respected performer in theMuddy Waters 
blues world, Muddy Waters. Time by Renee Leuchten magazine said recently, "Muddy Waters is the king of dirty blues, 
Music lovers will be able to enjoy down home blues, funky blues or the emotional sweep of blues at the straight blues." Midwest Blues Festival this week­Friday's show will be opened by end. Featuring popular blues the original Aunt Jemima, Edith artists performing in an unre­Wilson. She will be accompanied strained, lean-back-in-your-seat­by blues piano player Little Brother and-relax-type-atmosphere, Mid­Montgomery. A legend in blues west Blues will take place Friday evolution, Wilson is a vaudeville and Saturday at 7:30 p.m. in ·blues singer who has been involved Stepan Center. in blues since 1921. Little Brother Montgomery is one of the last of the turpentine-camp pianists play­ing southern barrelhouse and tradi­tiona) jazz. 

Additional Friday night perfor­mers will be Brownie McGhee on accoustic guitar and Sonny Terry playing the harmonica. The team has been called "the greatest living exponent of black folk blues." 
The Son Seals Blues Band wilf return to the Midwest Blues stage Friday night for its third appear-­ance. Son is an emerging among young artists as a talented blues guitarist. 
Opening Saturday night's show is Big Joe Duskin, a highly-regar­ded blues piano player. Duskin captures all the exuberance and unrestrained joy of boogie-woogie, barrelhouse, and classic blues. 
Also on Saturday is one of the sta.:tdards in Chicago blues guitar, Mighty Joe Young. Joe can play it all--soul, rhythm-n-blues, and raw­edged blues. 
Tickets for the Festival are $4 for Friday, $5 for Saturday, and $7 for a two-nightFestival pass. They can be purchased at the door. Bring a blanket and friends. 
lnPIRG plan$ consumer projects despite loss of ND support 
Dave Rumbach blank as before. Senior Staff Reporter "The response wasn't nearly as good," stated Englehart. "People 
Despite financial difficulties re­either lose the cards or don't see sulting from a lack of student them or something." support, the local Indiana Public The response did indeep drop-Interest Research Group(lnPIRG)is from $15,000 to $400. This lack of planning major projeds in the support prompted the University to areas of energy conservation and drop the positive checkoff system health education. altogether and, at present, InPIRG 
InPIRG's financial problems be­receives no money from Notre gan with the 1976-77 school year Dame. when the University changed the Based on NYPirg, Ralph Nader's procedure by which it had been New York consumer affairs re-receiving up to $15,000 a year since search group,lnPIRGwasstarted on the Notre Dame-St. Mary's campus in 1970 with the two-fold purpose of getting students involved in con­sumer affairs and solving local consumer problems, Englehart ex­plained. Student support in that year was much greater as over one-half of the student body signed a petition requesting University support of the project. 

This area'slnPIRGis now funded by grants from federal, state, and local sources, Indiana University South Bend (IUSB), and the pro­
[continued on page 8] 
1972. In this procedure, $3 was 

added to every student's tuition for 

SUNDAY MASSES (Main Church) 
InPIRG unless the student indica­ted that he did not want to 

5:15 Sat.-Rev. Robert GriHin, CSS This "negative consent" system 
contribute. 

9:30 Sun. Rev. Ed 0'Connor CSS 
yieldedinPIRGas much as $15,000 per year before it was changed in 

10:45 -Rev. John Gallen S.J. 
1976. According to Julie Engle­hart, a member of the InPIRG 

12:45 -Rev. William Toohey Board, at that time an InPIRG group in Southern Indiana "stepped on some alumni's toes 
7:15 vespers-Rev. John Gallen S.J. 
and got a bad reputation as a radical group." In 1976 the University adopted a "positive response" system to 

The Student Players 
assess how much support the group had in the student body. In order to contribute a student had to sign 

America's longest running musical! a card included in the tuition bill rather than leave the proper box 
The Fantastiks 
LaFortune  
renovations  
[continued from page 1]  ,  
The Huddle is also planned  to  
undergo extensive remodeling.  It  

will begin serving full meals be­sides its fast food and ice cream. The kitchens will be expanded and the dining area refurnished to suit the change of style the service plans. 
According to Paczesny, the sec­ond floor of Lafortune "will also be developed in a way to better utilize space." The Student Government and Student Union offices are to remain untouched, but the room presently accomodating the Black Cultural Arts Center will be a plant shop. The ballroom and its north alcove will be converted into smaller conversational areas via temporary dividers, leaving the ballroom available for dances. 
The south side of the second floor will house the Hispanic Stu­dent Union, the BCAC, a news and tobacco shop, and a cashier's office. 
''Again I want to stress that no one is losing anything by these changes," said Paczesny. "We are not trying to cause consternation by renovating LaFortune but rather make it more suitable for a greater number of activities. 
by

an CAMPUS MINISTRY 
Harvey Schmidt and

INQUIRY AND 
Tom Jones 

campus
miniStry CATECHUMENATE 
November 11 ,12, 18,19,1977
PROGRAM 
8 pm s1 Washington Hall
D For anyone wishing to find out n_10r~ about our Christian faith and Catholic 
Tickets available at SU ticket office 
tradition For anyone thinking about becoming a
.D ·r.----;--------------------1
Catholic 
IJu n 1ors 

Sponsoral by SMC-ND 
For rmre infonnation, drop by the CarJ1)Us 
Ministry offices in the Mermrial Ubrary or Badin 
Hall, or call 6536 or 3820. 
I HAYRIDE/ 
,....___________,!I SQUAREDANCE 
a,1,~ <l'J  FRANKS PLACE Restaurant & Lounge  A~ ~  1I  FRI  NOV 11  IN NlES  
327 W. Marion St.  South Bend  Ind.  I  7-12 pm  
Phone 232-2277 See Our Package Liquor Store  J I  lickets on sale  7-12 pm beer, hotdogs,  
Serving lunch, etc.  11  am to 2 pm  1  Wed-Fri  FUN!!  

1

L."!'."!'_.,.'P',.'!Ii..,!!"-.~~~~;:~=.o~.o~~·~!;;;;~~.1;.f.~~:;.;;~~~"'!'.s~-~!!_i!o-__ ~~-~_.¥S,.a•.-~;;;.iiik.___..,~----L""""1.J'7m_,,..,,.,.WJ!e1_,.1'P~"".,..·'s.ce.: .. J:t 
3:00 
or 
J 
3.50 -bu~ 
··~z; 


*The Observer 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's 
The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters ·are the views of their authors. Column space is available to all ·members of the community, and letters are encouraged to promote the free expression of varying 
opinions on campus.  
Business Manager Advertising Manager Production Manager  Sue Quigley Steve Bonomo Karen Chiames  BoxQ 'Notre Dame Ind. 46556  

EDITORIAL BOARD ' 
Marti Hogan Editor-in-Chief Martha Fanning Managing Editor Bob Brink Asst. Managing Ed Kathy Mills Executive Editor Maureen Flynn Editorial Editor Barb Breitenstein Exec. News Editor 
Jean Powley St. Mary's Editor Katie Kerwin News Editor Barb Langhenry News Editor Paul Stevenson Sports Editor Pat Cole Special Projects Ed. David O'Keefe Features Editor 
Copy Editor Joan Fremeau Photo Editor Leo Hansen 

Friday, November 11, 1977 
In the Wake of Rape 
Tuesday night, while two St. Mary's 
students were being raped a short distance 
from the ND-SMC road, a security patrol 
drove by on the road. They saw nothing. 
Last night, an Observer editor drove up and down the same road. She found that, driving very slowly with her headlights turned up, she still could not see very far into the woods and fields adjoining the road. The road itself, with the notable exception of the area near the cemetery and the road to Moreau, was adequately lit. :t;Jut as little as five feet off the road, the light dissolved into obscurity. little could be perceived in these areas, as our editor discovered when she was unable to detect a student cutting across a field to Carroll Hall within five seconds of his 
leaving the main road. 
These shadowed areas, together with the dimly-lit area by the cemetery, provide havens for would-be attackers. This situation, however, can be improved by upgrading the quality of the light sources and installing supplementary light fixtures set off the road. In addition, security patrols should be equipped with flood lights that will penetrate the shadows and foliage which could shelter criminals. 
Most of the leaves have fallen from the trees that line the ND-SMC road. In the spring and summer, the visibility problem will be even more critical. The University must act immediately to prevent future attacks. 
Another factor our editor observed last night was the lack of traffic on the road at night. The almost-deserted setting arrows a criminal the opportunity and the time to commit his crime and escape. Yesterday, the first step was taken to alleviate this problem by returning the evening shuttle to its former route through campus. (The shuttle was re-routed to Angela and U.S. 31 in 1975, because of problems controlling the gate at night.) This decision will encourage students to use the shuttle by making it more convenient and more direct. The presence of the bus on the road may also serve as a deterrent. More frequent and more thorough patrols of the road are also definitely in order. 
One student has suggested that two security stations be built along the ND-SMC road: one at the bend near the cemetery and the other at the entrance off of U.S. 31. Certainly a security station at 
ROMAN HERO 
P.O.BOXQ 
Coeds deserve protection 
either location could have Tuesdaynight's tragedy. 
SecUrity problems,* however, are not 
limited to the ND-SMC road. There are 
still a number of dark areas on campus, 
although the improvement over the last 
few years has been substantial. Buildings 
and pathways used by students at night 
are particularly in need of some additional 
lights.. Notable areas include the walkway 
from O'Shaughnessy to Fr. Sorin's statue, 
the path from the back of the administra­
tion building down to the grotto, and the 
side and the dorrways of the architecture 
building. 
In addition to better quality lighting, campus phones--perhaps direct lines to security--should be installed in buildings frequented by students at night. The convenience of these phones would en­courage students returning home late at night to call for a security escort. Obvious candidates for these phones are Darby's Place, the architecture building, Nieuw­land and the Fieldhouse. security from the architecture building, for example, one must now either have a dime for the pay phone or walk to one of the residence halls. 
An important factor in the safety of all students is our cons::iousness of the security problem. It is unfortunate that we can no longer take pleasant walks in the cool night air without fearing attack, but we must recognize the danger and take some responsibility for our own safety. Students should make use of the shuttle and the security escort service or walk in large groups. Organizations should take responsibility for the safety of their members when they meet at night. The Ombudsman has already started to escort its female staff to and from their rooms when they work late. 
All of us have been shocked by this recent tragedy into an awareness of the deficiencies of campus lighting and secur­ity procedures. The factors which made this attack possible--the deserted road, the obscurity of the surroundings--can and must be dealt with. The administrations of both institutions must give more emphasis and funds to the problem -of campus security. The students must demand better safety measures where needed and must cooperate with St. Mary's and Notre Dame administrators in bringing them about. 


I extend my heartfelt sympathies to the two women attacked. They have been dealt two grave injusti­ces: first and foremost by the Notre Dame community which was negli· gent in its duty to protect them; and secondly by the person who took advantage of that negligence. 
Sean E. Coughlin 
to the President ... 
Dear Editor: 

This is an open letter to Father 
Hesburgh: 
Dear Father Hesbucgh, 

Whenever the occasion arises 
where you see fit to write an "open 
letter to the University." I always 
take a minute or twu to read it 
objectively, whether or not I agree 
with your views. I hope that. 
wherever you are, you will shov. me 
the same courtesy. 

After spending a summer back home in New York City, inwhich I experienced the terror of the Son of Sam. F.A.L.N .. black rioting. etc .. I anxiouslv awaited mv return to Notre Da~e. Among oiher thmgs. ND represented an est·ape from the fear which existed around me during the summt'r month~. Wednesdav. when I pickt·d up a copy of The Obsener. I rcalizt'd. in disgust. that mv opinion ahout du 
Lac was ohviou.,Jy wrong. I he !'liD community i... not a ha\c'n of safetv for it., <.,tudenr.... 
Faiher. our t•ommunitv. :1-. I always under... tood it. co~sl-.h of both.Notre Dame and St. Mar1 ·.,, But how can a real comniUnitv exist if it is joined by a poorly lit road which. in itself. invites harm. The incident which occured Tuesday night is something which the students of St. Mary's should not hue to put up with. If something is not done to correct this situation. 
i.e. increased lighting and security <>n this trail and increased shuttle bus service, then interaction be­twee,.. the two colleges will be cut drastically. We cannot afford to let fear split our comunity into two separate segments. 
Fr. Hesburgh. it is up to you and your administration to correct an already sorry situation. During the summer I lived in a neighborhood engulfed in panic and fear. Please don't let my winter home be placed in a similiar situation. 
Steve Sonnick Stanford Hall President 
Thank you, escorts 

Dear Editor: 
I'd just like to commend an organization on campus, Ombuds· man, for a policy it started in reaction to the rapes Tuesday night. All girls going to and from the office at night will be escorted by an Ombudsman as of November 9. 
It's nice to see the consideration and care. 
Robin Lavender 
Former director 
The Ombudsman 
.SMC lucky 

Dear Editor: This letter is addressed to the St. Mary's Student Government: 
In regards to your complaint that you are not getting enough cover· age in The Obsen<er, take it from me, count your blessings!!! 
Tom Gryp 
Director, Student Union 
~-~ 
--~ ----­
Letters to a Lonely God: 
....... ·.·.....·-;.;:;:;:·:·. 

Friday, November i1, 1977 the observer 
7 

On Knot-Tying Lovers 

Reuerend 
Robert Griffin 
About eight year~ ago. I was invited to Texas to be the officating cleric at a June wedding. "Come to Dallas, Father dear," sang the voice on the telephone. "Be the priest at our wedding. Make the day perfect bv saying our wedding Mass." I would love to have been there as the Church's minister. witnessing the mar­iage of Michelle and Richard. assuring them that Christ abundantlv blessed their union; delighted to know that the eyes of Texa5 were upon them, all that livelong dav. and that the eves of heaven would watch them for an even longer time, until death did them part. 
I did not go to Dallas for Michelle's and Richard'~ wedding; and. a!. it turns out, they did not wait for death to part them. This morning. in the mail. there was a letter from Michelle sa~ ing that after eight years. and the birth two year!. ago of a little 
girl . the marriage has failed. My reaction, I'm afraid. was a selfish one; after reflecting on the news for a while, I found myself thinking: by not marrying them, I am at least spared the pain of feeling guilty for what has happened. 
A failure of a marriage, for the priest who did the knot-tying, always feels like a failure of his ministry. Marriage, the priest thinks. is an unkindness that these two decent people should have been prevented from doing to each other. The marriage. it should be understoood, can be seen as an unkindness only in retrospect. But the priest feels: I should have known; I should have foreseen. As an older, wiser, more experienced person, I should have discouraged the promises between this man and woman. pledging fidelity, for 
The Ig . . . •.. album, 'Lust For Life, is the solo career and probably his mostfun personal work yet. . Born James Osterburg in a Detroit area neighborhood, young Jim soon became rather well-known for hes ''abusive and perverse behavior.'. Jim kicked around Dettoit, drummin very small-time rock bands. His first break came when he joined a group named the lguanas~ from whence he took the name lggy. The Iguanas gained a small following in the Detroit -Chicago area, but disbanded be· fore reaching their full potential. ln1968; lggy formed a new band called The Scrooges. ... The Stooges were a loud, distortion, feedback-oriented ba.nd, carrying hard rock to its utmost extreme, and lggy-was the focal attractiop of the band. He gave up . drumming and took to center stage to swg and carry on. Today his antics have become somewhat legendary in rock and roll circles. With the Stooges pounding away behing him, the shirtless, belching, screaming Iggy would pierce his chest with pencils, wires or anything else he could find on stage. If a beer bottle were thrown his way. he would throw it down on the stage and roll in the broken glass. Probably his most famous antic was the oatlentt)d, "lggy Pop Head Dive." This 
better and for worse, until death. If guilt is imputable to anyone at the breakup of a marriage, the priest must feel as soiled as the members of the wedding, whether sinned against, or sinning. It is no good telling the priest he is not God; that he couldn't have known; that brides and grooms are responsible for their own incompatability. Having permitted them to become brides and grooms as an act of his ministry, the priest has a sponsor's concern for them. Ever afterwards, he cannot meet them as divorced persons with out wanting to murmer as an act of contrition: "I am heartily sorry for having offended against thee.'' 
When a boy and girl fall in love, bells start ringing in the sky as though the stars had become carillons. "Hello, young lovers," the world wants to say. Old ladies selling flowers, aging doormen hailing cabs. waiters named Luigi popping wine corks in spaghetti palaces. rookie cops walking home chorus girls--all of them, as in the movies, share in the shimmering happiness of lovers touching each other, or sauntering arm and arm up avenues half Milky Way, half summer gardens, where blossoms make a cushion underfoot. 
To be in love is to find heaven half hidden in a lover's face. It is a mood sung to the heart by angelic choirs. It is god with a small g incarnate in the flesh; it is childhood's saints, found again, that we have loved awhile and lost. It is ice and fire, and sun burning up the sky at midnight. it is the breath of God breathing through us, choking us with ecstasy. It is the rhapsody racing the pulses that keeps us in smiles and laughter, whether we wake or sleep. It is cliche in metaphor felt as fresh experience; it is triteness re­deemed as every love song becomes true. 
All the world loves lovers, and lovers love themselves best of all. The sadness of love is that it is too quick to see itself as always and forever, when, really, like a butterfly, it is a mere flutter of wings on a summer's afternoon. Whatever there is of brightness in a butterfly begins to fade if 
. 
· 
you try to poise it on your fingertips. Quickly enough it dies, as your hand closes around it in a reflex action preventing the escape of beauty. 
Obviously, lifetime covenants can develop out of love as light-hearted as butterflies, though it is also true that lovers can be too hard-nosed ever to feel romantic. But marriageable love is a quieter truth than the blare of bugles. Its best images are those expressive of strength, as when we speak of an anchor fastened into rock, or of a tree rooted deep in rich, brown earth. 
"We're in love, Father," says the couple grinning all over with a sense of being special. "We want to be married." 
"Will you love each other when you're old and gray? Will you love each other after taxes?" 
"We will always love each other, Father, forever and a day.'' The answer comes too quickly. He can't imagine her wearing dentures; she can't picture him without hair. 
"Do you love each other enough to wait nearly forever, before being married, just to make sure?" Actually, I am only thinking of their waiting a year or two before marriage; but to them, it will seem like forever. 
"If waiting nearly forever is what is necessary," they say sadly, "then we can wait. We love each other that much." 
''This is a passion lacking impulsive­ness, this is a generosity I want to learn from," I decide to myself. "Theirs is a marriage I want to be a part of." 
Oh, dear God, I'm not so old that I don't remember being in love. I still fall in love, and right now, there's a little redhead named Jeannie .... But falling in love leads to being in love. I don't think one can risk being in love and staying in love, if one does not honor all the previous commit­ments his lo\7e has made. A man who marries does not bind himself never to fall in love with anyone else (falling in love--like catching a cold--can find a man off-guard); but he has promised to Jove and cherish his wife all -her life long, and fidelity is what is expected of him. If love is notfaithful, it is not apt to be much else, with or without the chaos in the blood­stream. 

I am not smart enough to know who can be faithful forever; but whenever oneof my marriages fails, I think I should have known better who could be trusted with the fidelities of wedded life. I have no right, I think, to let couples go before God's altar and pledge vows that turn into lovers' perjuries. 
It is lovely to be invited as the priest and the Church's minister at a wedding, assuring a couple that Christ blesses their union. But a priest cannot accept so great a privilege without taking risks, as he allows others to risk being nailed to a cross in the sacrifices married love must make. 
Nearly all of the marriages I have witnessed thank God, have succeeded. Otherwise, !would feel obliged to leave the knot-tying to other priests. 
I would feel very sad giving up my ministry to lovers. Part of the fun would go out of being ordained. 
*Observer 

Features 
With Bowie;~ synthesiZed string~ in the background•.· the music and the tension 
·.. build. iggy seems desparate to fmd mit the real nature of death, questioningi "What color wlll the lights be?" As he cryingly screams, "l shot myself up," the song
1

abruptly ends. . · 
. ''Neighborhood Treat," with a begin· ning reminiscent of Blue Oyster Cult's, "'I'he Reaper," and "Fall ln Love With Me;'~·-· triumphantly conclude ''Lust For 
Life." 

. Iggy Pop still plays good, hard. dirty rock. The musical emphasis on amplifica­tion and distortion have diminished, and ·. lyrically, Iggy h,as greatly expanded. Nonetheless, "Lust For Life is a fine album, fun to listen to, and still raunchy enough to make all Bay City Roliers Fans siCk to their stomachs ...Thank goodness. 

Goodwill to collect clothing in 'Good Turn Day' drive 
The Singing Sands Council Girl 40,000 bags of clothing, toys, JERUSALEM (AP] -Israel ex-
Scouts of America, the South Bend shoes, etc.," said Elyse Russell, pressed regret yesterday for civil-
Tribune, and a number of Army executive secretary of the Goodwill ian casualties in its reprisal raid on 
Reserves and National Guardsmen Industries of Michiana, Inc. southern Lebanon but still defend-
will be among those assisting This is the first year that the Girl ed the operation. It also welcomed 
Goodwill in the annual Goodwill Scouts have participated in the Egyptian movement toward peace
"Good Turn Day" Clothing Drive drive. They organized at the troop talks. 
tomorrow.-level in order to drop points in the In Washington, President Carter 
The drive, covering a 10 county 10 county area of their council. "In declined to condemn Israel, telling 
area in Indiana and Michigan, is an previous drives, the Boy Scouts a news conference, "If the provoca­
effort to collect repairable materi­assisted us in collecting bags. tion was absent, the retaliation 
als needed to keep Goodwill's However, they were unable to do so would have been unnecessary.·' 
handicapped and disabled em­this year so we enlisted the help of Carter said, "The bloodshed in 
ployees employed during the win­the Girl Scouts," Russell said. my opinion will not be stopped 
ter months. This year's Honorary Chairman until the nations are willing to 
Approximately I 00,000 donation is Tim Bornheimer, head of mar-negotiate," adding that the Mid-
bags were distibuted by the South keting and customer relations at east "is teetering on another 
Bend Tribune on Nov. 4. Begin­the Valley Bank and Trust in outbreak of violence." 
ning at 9:00a.m. tomorrow 13,000 Mishawaka. Working along with Israeli Prime Minister Menahem 
Girl Scouts will travel from door to Bornheimer in organizing the dirve Begin. discussing the heavy civil-
door collecting donations. After is J. Larry Neff. Goodwill President ian toll among the more than 100 
dropping the bags at designated of the Michiana area. dead and ISO injured in Israel·., 
stations, the items will be transpor­"We hope this drive will be Use me, chain me, but don't leave me out in the snow! [Photo by bombing and strafing raid Wed-
ted to the Goodwill warehouse by succesful because materials are Ken McAlpine]. nesday. told reporters, "we rcgr,·t 
trailers provided by the Teamsters needed badly to insure employ-----------· • it very deeply." 
Union Local 364. 
ment during our slowest months. Energy conservatiOn survey But Begin. who ~ummoned l'" 
"Each year the drive has been The girls are very enthused and J Ambassador Samuel Lc\\'i~ tn l:h 
highly successful, increasing by ready to go to work on Nov. 12 for office to convcv 1hc mt'''·'l(<'
t •t• • I d 

4.000 to 5,000 bags every year. the handicapped," Russell con-added. "\\l' do ~Ill apolo!!i/l' '''I
nu rl IOn seminar p anne 

This year we expect to collect about eluded. the opera linn it!>clf." [contin111ed from page 5] whether or not the doctor 1s The cro~s-border fora 1 11 a., ·o1111 accepting new patients and any ed at Pall'~tinian strongholdo, an.: cedes from a 'hot dog stand on the wa!> brad's replv to gu"rnll,,
rates he wants to reveal. EnglehartNotre Dame campus on football rocket attal-k'> on an lo,rach tm1 n
reported.

weekends, Englehart revealed. that killed three ci1·ihans.
InPIRG is also preparing a long­

r=:~0:0b~7e·;:;;~;~:;e'::;;:~:;·''~11 
lnPIRG is a state-wide research term energy conservation survey. Lebanon o,a1d hrael 11a' gulll\ nt 
organization divided into two major Armed with light meters and newly ·'overt aggrco,o,10n ·-and .1 ould N N regions--one in the north consisting released government standards ln­bring up the mattl'r 111 tht· l' '\I I of students from Notre Dame, St. PIRGstudents will be testing Notre Sceurit~-('ounril. 
Mary's and IUSB, and one in the Dame and St. Marv'!> College The U-~-l'nvm 111 kru....ill'nl~ should contact the Obseruer office I south with members from I. U. at said the linlled State., ab1> "a., 
(4th ~oor LaFortune, tel. 7471) betw.een 9 a.t1d 5. All applications 
. should be in by Wednesday, Nou 23. 
·:~::::::::::::::::::::~:::::::::::~:=:=:=:~:=:~:~:=:=:~:~:~:~:~:=:~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~:::;:::;:::;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::. 
• 
· Our Specialty: llllrlli...lillill..Oven Baked 
APPLE PANCAKES Extra large, using fresh apples & pure sugar cinnamon glaze 
U.S. 31 (Dixieway North) in Roseland across from Holiday Inn 
buildings for heating and lightingBloomington, IUPUI, Earlham. and "decpll l'llll<<"rncd" abou1 Wnl­
efficiency.

others. All lnPirg groups select "The survev will be doublv nc!>da\ ·, la~ualtic-. and ,., · · 111 !(lll_l! long and short-term projects in significant because Notre Dame i~ all parlll'" 111 l'Xl'n·io,e m.nunun, re~trainl.-·
various areas of-consumerism and planning to change heating !>Y'>· 

then conduct surveys. These terns in the future and so we will be The amha-....ador "'1d lht· United reports are then given to the proper able to make comparison!>.·· Engle­State~ wa, m.tking dlort'> to rem­officials and distributed among the hart stated. state thl-o,ix-11 cd.·Did trul·c in media, Englehart explained. Lcban••n and ha\c Pale!>llntan
To increase student awarcne!>!> of 

lnPIRG also prepares consumer good nutrition practice!>, ND-SMC fon·eo, 11 i 1 hd ra" from the border guides for use by the general and !USB students are planning a 
area. Nutrition Seminar to be presented
public. One such guide, a physi­bracli Foreign Mint!>tr~ oftic1al!. cian's directory., will soon be in connection with Food Day. The said they did not believe the 
fighting would lessen chances for
***********released by the local group. The presentation will include several 
directory will include the alma­lectures and slide displays. Engle­reconvening a Geneva peace con­hart reported.
mater and graduation date of eve:ry ferenee, however. and wer optimis­doctor in South Bend area and the "Most of the events will be held tic about Egyptian President An­most recent training he or she has at IUSB because they are the main war Sadat's latest remarks. received. Also to be included are funders," Englehart added. ~adat told the Egyptian parlia­
ment in Cairo on Wednesday that it is urgent that the stalled Geneva peace talks resume. 
Pedal away!
this friday and every friday 5 :15 mass & 

The Cycle Touring Club is spon­
supper 

an 
soring a two hour bicycle ride tomorrow morning. Anyone inter­ested in participating should meet at the library circle at 10 am. The tour will head east of the '"'"t.. try campus toward Granger, Ind. and then swing north into Michigan. 
c.~rnpu-. 

******************** 
price mixed drinks 25~ drafts Bring your senior trip pictures 
The loop will be of moderate mileage and will take approximate­ly two hours to complete. These rides have been sponsored all semester and will continue to be sponsored as long as it is not raining and the streets are safe for riding. 
'RESTAURANTE SCOTTSDALE MALL FREE!!! 

Soft drink 'with 3 items TACOS •eAB1 TACQ 
• 
IIIRIJOS • TAIAIIS 

• 
EJICIIlADAS • TACO DOC 

• 
TOSfADOS • BEAll TACO\ 

• 
BARBEQUE TACO 

• 
SPAJIISJI HOT DOC 

• 
CIIEE'UBURCER 




"We carry a line of 
egetarian Foods. 

Mel Practiss · Pre-med Student 

Can't miss him on campus, always wears white. Constantly being sought after by freshmen and transfer students who mistake him for ice-cream man. Mel drinks Lite Beer from Miller because it's less filling. Can't afford to get filled up. At last count he was in charge of 114 mice, 137 frogs and 240, uh .. .480 rabbits. Spends spare time in library analyzing stitching on medical books. 
UhfBeer from Miller. Everything you always wanted in a beer. Anclless. 
_ ............ •' ·~ ·.. '" '-~ '· .L-• 

lliOL_ilhw;eL\!o~bfjsl.!leillrvl..I.!ieHr:.________Fridav, November 11, 1977 
------CampusBriefs-----­
Individual students or student The $1,600 system magnifies the 
Senior trippers on late plane entitled to rebate 
All senior trippers who took the late plane (World Airways) to San Francisco are entitled to a $15 rebate which can be picked up Wednesday in the Student Activi­ties Office on the first floor of LaFortune or in Mary Laverty's office, room loS LeMans. 
Concert series to present 'Omnibus' recital 
"Omnibus," a multi-media 
ensemble for contemporary music, 
will be presented by the University 
of Notre Dame Concert Series 
tomorrow at 8:15 p.m. in the 
Memorial Library Auditorium. 
The recital is an addition to the 
previously announced schedule of 
concerts and is open to the public 
without charge. 
Tomorrow night's concert will include works by 20th century composers Luciano Berio (Cinque Variations), George Crumb (Madri­gals, Book II), Karlheinz Stock­hausen (Solo fur Melodieinstru­munt mit Ruckkoepplung), Edgar Varese (Density 21.5) and John Cage (Flower and Sunsmell). 
You bet your BIPPIE 
The National Student Educa­tional Fund is sponsoring a national competition to recognize college students who produce the best informational materials for other students. $12,000 in scholarships will be awarded in this national competition called the Better Infor­mation Project: Prizes in Educa­tion (BIPPIE). 
groups are eligible to submit 
entries in any media produced 
during the 1976-77 or 1977-78 
academic years. Materials must be 
aimed at informing fellow students 
about campus programs, opportu­
nities and experiences. 
Prizes will be awarded in two 
categories: general information 
aimed at the entire student 
community (such as orientation 
guides, course and teacher evalua­
tions and financial aid manuals) 
and information aimed at specific 
student groups. 
Each of twelve winners will be 
awarded a trip to Washington, 
D.C. to accept, on behalf of his school, a $1,000 scholarship to be given to a student with financial need. 
Application packets and competi­tion rules are available on request from the National Student Educa­tional Fund, 2000 P St. NW, Suite 305, Washington, D.C. 20036. Entries must be postmarked no later than February 28, 1978. 
French mass I set for Sunday 
There will be a mass said in French this Sunday at 5 p.m. in the Regina Hall Chapel. Everyone is welcome to attend. 
New device to aid visually impaired 
A new electronic device to help visually-impaired persons in read­mg and writing has been added to the visual aid resource center at Indiana University at South Bend. 
The Northern Indiana Center of the Blind, a local chapter of the National Federation of the Blind, donated an electronic visual aid system which its manufacturer says will allow 60 percent of the nation's "legally blind" to read a book, newspaper or telephone directory, and also help them write. 
%The Observer 
is now acceptin~qualified applicants for 
ASSISTANT AD MANAGER. 
salary offered 
please schedule interview at the Observer ad office '----3rd floor LaFortune--­

written word eight to 40 tirr.c~s depending on the need of the user, and displays the material on a television monitor. The device helps the visually impaired to write because they can see the magnifi­cation of their handwriting as thc:y write. 
The visual aid system is Iocatt:d on the secon8 floor of the !USB Library in the visual aid resource room. The center has been set up to assist visually impaired students in their work and includes a braille typewriter, braille dictionary, recording facilities and a pool of volunteers who read to the blind. 
Senior selected as marketing rep 
Senior Joan Luttmer has bet:n selected as a Mademoiselle Maga­zine College Marketing Represen­tative at Notre-Dame. As a College Marketing Rep she is one of over one-hundred students selected annually fr<..m across the country to be a member of the College Marketing Program. Luttmer was chosen on the basis of her applica­tion to the magazine's college marketing department that detailed her extra-curricular activi­ties on campus and her career goals. 
As a college rep, she will help to keep the magazine in touch with the up-to-date opinions of college women. She will host on-campus workshops, distribute question­naires and poll opinions on new products. Her findings and the opinions of the students will then be reported to Mademoiselle. 
Jennings-Colter concert tix on sale Tuesday 
Tickets for the Nov. 29 Waylon Jennings-Jessie Colter concert at the ACC will go on sale starting at 9 
a.m. this Tuesday. Tickets are $6.50 and $7 50 and available only at the ACCbox office. 


IBM copier to be installed on first floor of LaFortune 
Student Union Director Tom be 5 cents per copy. Gryp has announced that an IBM Gryp said he appreciated the copy machine will be installed in cooperation he received from Bro. the LaFortune student center to be Just Paczesny, vice-president for operable on the first day of class student affairs, and Bro. John 
second semester. The machine will Benesh, director of student activi­be located on the first floor of ties, "whose approval made it LaFortune outside the office of the possible to install the machine. It LaFortune manager. will be a convenience for people
Student Union is underwriting on the South Quad especially, who the copier which operates like the will no longer have to go all the waymachines currently in use in the to the library to copy somethingMemorial Library. The charge will now," he added. 
New Arts Trio to perform 
at St. Mary's on Sunday 
The New Arts Trio will perform in the Little Theatre of Moreau Hall at Saint Mary's College on Sunday Nov_ 13 at 8 p.m. Members of the Trio are Rebecca Penneys, pianist; Piotr Janowski, violinst; and Steven Doane, cellist_ The ensemble is in residence at the Wisconsin Conservatory of Music in Milwaukee. 
Called "an extraordinary artistic triumvirate," displaying "a brea­thtaking exhibition of single mind­ed virtuosity,'' the New Arts Trio will perform music of Tchaikovsky and Rachmaninoff on Sunday night. 
Rebecca Penneys. who appeared at Saint Mary's last year, was awarded the unprecedented Spe­cial Critics' Pri:~;e for her perfor­mance at the Seventh International Chopin Piano Competition in War­saw. In 1975 she was invited to take part in the First International Music Institute in Santander, Spain. and was ·top prize winner in the Second Paloma O'Shea Inter­national Piano Competition. 
In the early seventies, Penneys made a highly successful USIS State Department solo good will tour of Japan. The Fifth Vianna Da Motta International Piano Competi­tion in Lisbon presented her with the Most Outstanding Musician Prize. She has recorded for the Canadian Broadcasting Company Radio and Records, CBS-SONY and Orion Records. In 1976 she accepted an invitation from the Marlboro Music Festival to take part in its summer program and concerts and in 1977 her appear­ances included a solo recital at Kaufmann Auditorium in New York City . 
Penneys has been invited to 
~SAVE~SAVE~SAVENYSAVE~SAVE~ 
FOREIGN
<Al
~,..~ 
CAR PARTS CO.
REGIONIL DISTRIBUTOR 
before the snow flies give your car its tune-up now !! make sure it starts this winter! 
Parts and Accessories for ALL Makes of Foreign Cars 
215 Dixie Way N. 
in Roseland-U.S. 31 N. -1/zblock N. from Pendle St. 
SOUTH BEIND , IND. 46637 CALL: 2119 272-7187 
OPEN tl:a.m.-6:00 p.m. MONDAY THRU SATURDAY 
$$ $$ SPARK PLUGS ONLY 96, EACH WITH THIS AD (reg $1.25) 

perform on the Bosendorfer Series 
in New York in December. She 
recently received the National. C~r­
tificate honoring her as a Dtstm­
guished Young American Woman. 
She is presently chairperso~ of t~e 
piano department at the Wtsconstn 
Conservatory of Music. Janusz 
Ekiert, music critic for the Evening 
Express in Warsaw, Pola~d, call~d 
her "a genius of the ptano wtth 
whom no other woman pianist in 
the world can be compared." 
Piotr Janowski, born in Poland, is a graduate of the Warsaw Conservatory of Music, At the age of 16 he was the first Pole to win the coveted Grand Prize at the Wieniawski International Competi­tion in Posnan. Since his arrival in the United States in 1970, he has studied with Ivan Galamian at the Curtis Institute of Music, and Juilliard. He also studied at the University of Southern California with Jascha Heifetz. 
In 1976, .Janowski was the soloist with the New York Philharmonic under the direction of Leonard Bernstein in the world premiere performance of David Diamon's Violin Concerto, which is dedicated to Janowski. Janowski taught and performed in 1976 at S.U.N.Y., Stonybrook, New York. 
StE · :!n Doane is a graduate of the Oberlin Conservatory of Music where he studied with Richard Kapuscinski. He received his Master's degree drom S.U.N.Y., Stonybrook, where he studied with Bernard Greenhouse, cellist of the Beaux Arts Trio. Doane was the first prize winner of the San Fransisco Symphony Foundation competition which resulted in a solo appearance with the San Fancisco Symphony Orchestra un­der Seiji Ozawa. 
Doane was a finalist in June, 1974, in the Cello Division of the Fifth International Tchaikovsky Competition in Moscow. In addi­tion he received the Piatigorsky Prize in Cello at the Berkshire Music Festival, toured as a mem­ber of the Music from Marlboro group, and was a recipient of the Thomas J. Watson Fellowship for a year of 'study abroad. 
The New Arts Trio concert is open to the public without charge. 
;:::::::::::::JULIO'S:::::::::::::: 
now serving 
DELIGOUS CHICKEN 
DINNER 

f for carryout or delivery to f :j~~ your room piping hot, phone i~~~: 
t: m~
232-7919. 

I ~~~~=: ;'
:~:~: 4 P.m -1 weeke~__ .. .J~ 
:~:::::;;;:;:;:::::::::..:~:::::::::::~::.£.~::::::::~~=~~:~:~:~:::::::;'::::::;:::. 
Friday, November 11, 1977 the observer 11 
Clemson awaits Irish arrival 
[continued from page 12] 260 yards in consecutive games. Last week the Irish gained over 300 yards each 1 running and passing, and gained 667 yards in total offense, the second highest figure in Notre Dame history. Montana has resurrected an Irish offense that has scored 161 points in the last three games, the highest three game sum since the 1932 team outscored its opponents 177-0 in the first three games of the season. Jerome Heavens, who has rushed for 798 yards so far this season, SO more than Notre Dame's 
NOTICES 
EXPERIENCED TYPIST For more information, please call 272-2819. 
Interested in updating your understand­ing of the Christian faith and Catholic tradtion? Considering the possibility of becoming a Catholic? For more informa­tion, drop by the Campus Ministry offices in the Memorial Library or in Badin Hall, or c<:ll 6536 or 3820. 
Anyone wishing to register to vote in Indiana's May election should call Moat 4-4001. 
Typing. Reasonable rates. Call 8051. 
"We're O.K. -You're O.K" Gay Community at ND guide o ND/SB -$1 Pandora's or Box 206, ND 
Gay Community of ND lnfollne -Fri. and Sat. 10-12 p.m. 8810. 
Will do typing neat, accurate, Hours 9-6. Call: 287-5162. 
VEGETABLES REJOICE! The greatest historical event since the evolution of paddlefish is about to grace Notre Dame. clearance for the Michiana­Western Ohio Regional Parsnips' Daze Celebration has been granted by the Imperial Wizard of Parsnips himself. Festivities, featuring sensual indulge­men! to excess, will begin at sunrise on the nineteenth. 
COLLEGE GRADS AND PEACE CORPS AND. VISTA The Peace Corps and VISTA offer unique opportunities for qualified individuals to use their knowledge and skill to help in developing nations in AFRICA, SOUTH AMERICA, ASIA and all over the UNITED STATES. Build a better future for others as you enhance your own. Openings in a variety of fields. Living expenses, travel and other benefits are provided. For more info on how to apply, contact volunteer recruiters on campus Nov. 15-17. Sign up IMMEDIATELY at the Placement Bureau for an interview. 
We Need a Band! Do you have a band? Need to practice some more or would you like to play for a good cause? The Notre Dame/St. Mary's Council for the Retard­ed is looking for a band to play at our monthly dances. Our November dance is next Wed., Nov. 16th and the time is 7:30 till 10:00 p.m. The Logan Kids love live music, so if you'd be interested in playing for us, please give us a call. Jeanne Conboy 284-4391 or Art Koebel 287-7509. 
CHRISTMAS BAZAAR Dec. 5, 6, 7 at SMC Fnr information call Christy Jones­4407 (SMC). 
To all interested students and volunteers: this Saturday morning (9 -11:30 a.m.) Rromises to be a Sat. Rec. that you won't want to miss! Come down to LoganCenter for the Carnival Rec. and join in the fun and festivities. If you are interested in helping us set up for this event, meet us Thursday, Nov. 10th 6:3D-7:30 p.m. or Friday, Nov. 11, 7-9 p.m. in the Logan Cafeteria. Bring an extra friend with you to the Carnival Rec. this Sat., Nov. 12, 9-11 :30 a.m. Questions or suggestions feel free to call Art Koebel (287-7509) or Jeanne Conboy (284-4391). 
FOR RENT 
Three bedrooms available on N. Eddy­good location to school. Call 282-1964. 
APARTMENT: FURNISHED 2bedroom­$185-Inquire at Louie's after 6. 
LOST AND FOUND 
Lost tan raincoat at Morrissey formal -• belongs to roommate. If found Please call 4-4389. 
Found: young black male cat near law school and bus shelter. Call 8666 for Info. 
Lost: A navy blue backpack with 2 notebooks and 2 accounting books. PLEASE call7007 if found. No questions asked. 
Lost: a pair of brown frame glasses. If found, call Annie. 7852. My eyes will love you. 
opponents combined, will start at tailback for the fifth straight game. Since Dan Devine has instituted the I formation Heavens has averaged 117 yards per game. Right now, Terry Eurick is slated to start at fullback for the injured David Mitchell, but number 44 was working out Thursday and should make the trip. But with a now healthy Vagas Ferguson, who ran for what must be a record of sorts 116 yards in only ten minutes against Georgia Tech, don't be surprised if Heavens moves to fullback and Ferguson to tailback. 
LOST before break: Blue nylon "St. Mary's track" jacket with "Bob" sewn on front. Priceless sentimental value. Rob 8464. 
LOST -Hewlette packard 45 calculator ­lost before break. in brown vinyl case. Reward! -call Andy 8886. 
LOST:This weekend on the south quad. gold cross and St. Elizabeth ~eton meda!. Sentimental value. Call Tnsh 4816 1f found. 
Found: Calculator before break. Call to identify. 8557. 
WANTED 
Need tix for Clemson game. Call collect 312-656-6363 or 312-436-0352. Ask for Len. 
Needed: Student or GA tickets Air Force Call Jan 4-4184. 
Need 4 GA Air Force Tickets. Call Lisa ­
6886. 
Need 3 GA Air Force tickets. Call Mary Jo-6886. 
NEED 4 GA AIR FORCE TICKETS* Kathy [4-4964] 
Need ride to Philadelphia area for break. Can leave after classes on Monday, Nov. 
21. Will share expenses. Denny 8906. 
Needed: 2 GA Air Force Tickts--Joan 1280 
NEED ONE STUDENT TICKET FOR AIR FORCE GAME. CALL SUZY [4-5361] 
Inspected car at reasonable price for daughter to drive to and from school. CASH PAID. 272-4734 evenings. 
NEED 3student tickets for Air force. Call Kathy 4-5355. 
NEED 2student tickets for Air force. Call Sandy (4-5346] 
1 need 4 GA tix for Air Force. If you can help call Russ at 8772. 
Riders: Looking for riders on Nov. 23rd, heading south to Atlanta via Louisville, Nashville, Chattanooga. Call Karen or Bi II 616-429-3507 
Need 4 GA Air Force tickets. Call Brian 272-5843. 
Need 2 GA Air Force tix --Cindy 8037. 
Help! Need 2, 4 or 6 GA Air Force Tix for family. Call Jim 6710 after 8. 
Need two GA tickets for Air Force -Call Mark -11167 
Need ride to Jersey. can leave Nov. 21 Robert -1145. 
Need Six Air Force Tix Beth 272-2340 
Need ride to Long Island for Thanksgiv­ing. Will share driving and expenses. Call sue 8050. 
Needed: A ride to Cleveland Friday Nov. 
11. Willing to share driving and gas expense. Maryellen 1362. 
Need GA or student tix for Air force. Call Ed 3708. 
2 need ride tlil Chicago on November 19. Call 6326. 
TYPIST WANTED: Full time, to typeset display advertising, Monday and Wed­nesday thru Saturday afternoon~ and/or evenings. Hourly pay. Experience help­ful, but not necessary. Apply In parson at The Penny Saver, 2101 S. Michigan St., South band, 288-1411. 
Need riders to Illinois State, Bloomington -Normal, leave Nov. 11th call 4-4849. 
Help, 1need two Air Force tickets, either GA or Student Please call Pete at 8518 anytime. 
Help my two little sisters see their first NO football game. Sell me two GA Air Force tickets. Call Dave at 3493 anytime. 
The Irish are an 11 point favorite, but unlike the three previous Saturday's, the opposition will have the edge in the intagibles department. Clemson's stadium is known as "Death Valley." I'm sure they will have a few psycho­logical surprises ready for Notre Dame. One will occur when the Tigers enter the playing field. They run onto the field like no other team in the country. You'll see what I mean after you watch tomorrow's game locally on WNDU TV with Tom Dennin and Joe 
tural oak finish 277-4056. 
Camaro -1974 Air conditioning Red 24,000 miles Showroom condition. 277­4056. 
USC-UCLA sportswear for sale. Come and Browse 326 Morr Ask for Kevin 3587. 
WHY PAY MORE? Flannar records has all $6.981ist LP's only $4.50. All $7.9811st LP's only $5.29. Over 400 albums In stock 
• Phone orders accepted. FLANNER RECORDS 322 Flannar (2741]. Hours M·Th. 4-5, 6:30-8:110, Sun 2-3:30. 
River City Records is Northern Indiana's largest and most complete record store! Located just 3 miles North of ND-SMC on US 31. River City Records has over 8,1100 records and tapas to choose from. ND and SMC checks accepted. Open until 10:110 Thursday, Friday, and Saturday; noon to 
8:110 Sundays 
PERSONALS 
If you have any printing, layout, and/or management experience and would like part-time on-campus work call campus press 7047, 1-5 Mon-Fri; ask for Bill or John. This is a paid position. 
Saint Mary's Students: Seats are still available on the New York Area charter flight; Dec. 22nd and Jan. 16. Call Mary Laverty: 4319. 
Teddy says: Happy B-Day Tommy T. You're 19, You're Handsome and ... 
Need ride to cleveland for Thanksgiving. Call Kathy 1264. 
Renee, Your houseowner gave me permission to call you. What's your phone number? See you soon. 
A senior from Vermont. 
HAPPY 21st Hairy Greg! You know who you are! 
A. 
ALL OBSERVER STAFF MEMBERS who wish to have their pictures in the Dome be at the Observer office at 8 p.m. Tuesday 11-15. This includes you, too, St. Mary's. 
Come to Disco and Dance contest Saturday, Nov. 12. Lafortune Ballroom. 
8:30 -1:00 Prize -2 tickets to Hall and Oates. Donation -50 cents. 
GOOGIE, Muffin doesn't sound like a good guy to butter up to. 
Alumni Abusers 
JJS-this is a second chance personal ­smile you 'II go network soon. Anne and Cece's sister. 
Free Kittens to good home. Call evenings 256-0779. 
Help! someone hit and ran. Big damages done to my green and white car. Anyone having any information about an accident in B-2 parking on Fri. Oct. 21, between 1-5 call Pat 7620. 
ATTENTION KILBRIDE FAN CLUB MEMBERS: if you want a personally autographed picture of our leader and complementary dart board see Mike Rm 
229. Hurry while supply last. 
Mort and Laverne: .Say l:lappy Birthday to Matt B. 
Irish looking for first win 

Wisconsin to invade ACC 

[continued from page 12] 
. Baretta, who has started the season 
out slowly, could rise to the 
occasion this weekend. 
Taking faceoffs for the Badgers will be All-American Mike Eaves, their leading scorer two out of the last three years. Also of note at center are Mark Johnson, rookie of the year in the WCHA, and Mike Meeker, the WCHA player of the season. 

Come watch the Toad do her imitation of I s. Jane, CSJ awild woman on Saturday night. It won't 
be an imitation If she forgets to mix some water with the wine. Her fans are eagerly awaiting. 
EXPERIENCED MINSTRELS FOR HIRE Serenading a specialty. Also custom songwriting. Call RINGO AND JESTER. 8243. 
LISA D Many perverted thoughts on your 20th birthday. 
Tarbush 
Tomorrow Is MY birthday! Mary P. Brlngardnar 4-57111 
Mary Pit Bringardner, Love ya Chickie and we're not jivin ya Boobie! z-z-z-z-t! 
Gorp Gang Cindy, Geri, Jane, Terri, Mary E. 
K.T. Disco [I mean Driscoll!] Happy 19th Birthday! have a "fine damn" weekend. Enjoy your last teenage year. 
susu 
Robert Thomas "Bob" "Harvard"* Keen Jr., 
Love your style!! An aspiring young wrltress 
CHEECH AND CHONG AT STEPAN CENTER DEC. 3 TICKETS $3.75 at TICKET OFFICE STARTING MONDAY. 
Kim-Bob, Keep up the good work! your other 2/3's 
To Leenie Haufbrau, Miss Cookie and Juliet: it was a great review sacre coeur! AuntM. 
A pseudo-hermit needs a call, to make her smile, I'd say. Call Lisa 0, 6730. It's her birthday Saturday.!! 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY SANDY! YOUR SAN FRANCISCO ROOMMATES 
Happy 21st Birthday Sandy. Love always, Carol 
1011 Flannar: You owe us one! 203 
Happy 21st Greg!  Love, Terri  
Happy 21st Greg!  )-ova, Dl  
Happy 21stl  Love, Ginrie  
Happy 21st!  Love, Kathy  

Jean Heinen, Hey sweetie, why don't you change places with the popcorn! 
Stephen Stills Happy birthday, Jean! 
Jean, do Vikings like Okies? H-B! 
Girls of Farley beware, the Blue Moon will rise again. 
The Society of Bruce lives!! --ree the 
·~g!'!~0lUL...... . ~,~ . ··~~-..~ ....-~ 

In addition to Bob Suter and 
Norm Mcintosh atdefense, veterans 
Tom Ulseth, Mark Capoush and 
Murray Johnson are all back at 
right wing. 
Irish fans can look for hard­
checking to come from both sides, 
as there is no love lost between 
these two WCHA rivals. 
Both Friday and Saturday night's ,games will start at 8 p.m. at the ACC. 
"One treasure only... The Jane, The Pitz..." Happy Birthday! 
Love, The New tongues of fire 

Help Billy Pilgrim. He is stuck in time and Montana wildhack too, Vote Vonne­gut. 
Vonnagut Airlines Illes non-stop to Trelfamadore, Titan, IUium and South Band. 
ATTENTION REDNECK MOTHERS Get up against the wall and give Jean a call (1320) Happy Birthday, Okie! 
Thanks for the B·Day personal. Y•, I "Had a happy!" TAB 
Jeanie, Sorry I missed you for the ticket. Please call me at 1136. Bob 
VJJ Is going to be armed and dangerous -Senior Bar Saturday night! 
Happy 20th to Gene, Gene the Dancing Machine! 
XXXOOO 
Disco Mama& Kate's better half 

Happy 19th birthday Therese Phillips. from Jim and the gang! 
AAHOWWN Weekends ware made for paddlafish and elusive paddlaflsh are elusively encour­aged to drown this weekend. 
475 for  1-1/2  hours.  It  was  great!  
Thanks.  
J&K  

Ms. October: lady Dledy, Rea-Roo Happy Birthday, I love you. Hlnga-Ha? 
To Kayo: a wild horse rider and Indian fighter-we send you a cheer and a keg of beer! Happy 21st Birthday. 
Love, the EBS 

To O.D., Zip, Cazzie, Nick, Bob, Joe, Stave, Tundra and everyone else I can nut remember -thanks for a happy happy birthday. 
The Amazing Grulas 

Dear Jane, (Do not read this until tomorrow) 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY The Campus Ministry Gang 


YOU! 
YOU! 
YUU! 
IUU: 
'·~~ ..-..'-'!.\.1...~.~-~··-~­

Fighting Irish to .enter Tigers' den 
by Tim Bourret Sports Writer 
The Atlantic Coast Conference has long been known as a great basketball conference. Twenty-two players on the latest NBA rosters were products of the ACC. But recently the conference has turned out some excellent football talent, and some of its teams have popped up in the national rankings. Last year Maryland went undefeated in the regular season and was the talk of the league. But this season the Clemson Tigers, Notre Dame's very worthy opponent tomorrow afternoon, have been the major topic of discussion among "tobacco road" fans. 
Clemson was a very mediocre 3-6-2 last season. But in the winter of 1976 the University hired a new 
Stevenson·=====================:===============================================================================================================================================================::===============================================================================================================: 
The Irish Eye 

====================================================::========================================;=;=;=======;=======;==============================================================================================================================================:==========================================:Football Picks 
coach, and the new coach then went to a new offense. The result is a 1977 Clemson team that has only a loss and a tie through its first nine games and is a major bowl contender. The Tigers have, after their eight win of the season, their highest victory total since 1959 when they made their last bowl appearance, a 23-7 Blubonnet Bowl victory over TCU. 
One reason for Clemson's suc­cess has been its excellent execu­tion of the power I offense. First year coach Carley Pell, a definite coach of the year candidate, junked the veer for the power I last spring. Quarterback Steve Fuller, a solid 6-4, 198, has made the adjustment easily. The junior signal-caller, who gained over 500 yards on the ground in 1976, has gone to the air more often this year and has been 

'...-:­

-4('t.. Ross Browner will be required to maintain constant pressure on the Clemson offense if the Irish hope to come out of Greenville with a win. 
Paul 
The top teams in college football all fared well last weekend, especially 
' the top six teams. All six demolished their opponents. Texas defeated Houston, 35-21, Alabama trounced Louisiana State, 24-3, Oklahoma downed Oklahoma State, 61-28, Ohio State blanked Illinois, 35-0, the Irish destroyed Georgia Tech, 69-14, and Michigan soundly beat Northwestern 62-20. 
Notre Dame was favored over the Yellow Jackets by 14; however. they truly must have wanted revenge after last year's loss as they totaally ripped apart the Ramblin' Wreck. But, the other five teams in front of the Irish in the polls all won big. So, although Notre Dame gained ground in total points. the Irish did not advance in the standings. 
So, with another big week of college football action planned, and with the assistance of Bob Keen. here are the Irish Eye's picks for tomorrow's gridiron action. Notre Dame at Clemson: The Irish have been playing remarkably well and have surprised a lot of people after a slow start. However, tomorrow the Notre Dame gridders will be really tested in Greeenville. The Clemson Tigers are 7-1-1, their only loss coming to Maryland by one touchdown. ~tre Dame has enjoyed the comforts of home the last few weeks and it will be interesting to see how the Irish can do in the South for the second time this year. Clemson has been waiting for this matchup for years and is not going to let the game slip away easily. But, the Irish will hopefully continue to put more points on the board as they capture this. game by 13 points. Keen backs the Irish by 17. Colorado at Oklahoma: The Buffalos could give Oklahoma a real test; however, the Sooners will be trying to avenge last year's 42-31 Joss. The game is being played in Norman, s,., that gives the Sooners an extra edge. Oklahoma should be able to win another one and remain as the number-three team in the country if Texas and Alabama both win. So, give this tilt to the Sooners by 10. Keen eyes Oklahoma by 14. Texas Christian at Texas: The Longhorns should not run into much difficulty with the Horn Frogs. Texas has been handling all of their opponents easily. The Longhorns should not falter against a club like TCU. The only trouble with this game is trying to decided if the margin of victory will exceed 60. Well anyway, give this matchup to the Longhorns by 42. Keen looks for Texas to triumph by 44. Michigan at Purdue: The Wolverines are ready to take their revenge on the Boilermakers. The same wee~end the Irish were upset by Georgia 
Tech last season, 23-14, Michigan was surprised by Purdue, 16-14. Tomorrow should be an entirely different story in West Layfayette as the Wolverines win this confrontation by 14. Keen watches Michigan by 20. Arkansas at Texas A&M: The Razorbacks and the Aggies will have one whale of a game. Arkansas is rated number-eight in the AP wire service poll. while Texas A&M maintains the number-eleven spot. Since the game is being played in College Station. the Aggies have an advantage. The Razor hacks will also be trying to make up for last year's 31-10 loss. The battle will be close throughout the 60 minutes, but look for th< Agj:ies to win by 3. Keen backs Texas A&M by 7. . Han-ard at Yale: The Crimson and the Bulldogs are holding their usual season finale, a game which Yale won last season, 21-7. These battles are always intense. and the home field may mean a lot in this one. Both teams are fairly evenly matched plus this game means they will both be at an emotional peak. Regardless of all the factors, the game should go to Yale by 3. Keen backs the Bulldogs by J. 
Southern Cal at Washington: The Trojans whallopped Stanford last weekend, 42-0. Southern Cal seems to be rolling once again and is !.till one of the prime contenders for the Pac Eight crown. However. Washington would like to be· on the throne as well. But, USC has proven their ability to succeed year after year. It's hard to believe that the Trojans could Jose more than three games this season. At least Washington should not be the one to give them number four. Thus, give this clash to Southern Cal by 7. Keen supports the Trojans by 6. 
Georgia Tech at Navy: Th·~ Ramblin' Wreck should never have travelled to South Bend. But, no use complai Hng about the past. Pepper Rodgers will have a difficult time getting his troups ready to bounce back from last week's debacle. Either his squad w;11 be really sown or they will be ready to prove that last week was just a nustake. Regardless, let's go with Tech by 6. Keen looks for the Yellow J~ckets to win by 10. 
PittsbUI'gh at Army: The Panthers ''ave had a very good season, despite their loss to the Irish and tie with Fl 'ida. The Cadets will attempt to give Pittsburgh a battle in the Mc~adowl,.lllus, but the Panthers have too much talent to be out-done. The Cadets will have to settle for an 0-2 record in Giants Stadium as the Panthers win this contest by 21. Keen eyes Pittsburgh by 21. 
Indiana at Ohio State: Th·~ Hoosiers have had their high and low points this season, most of them being low. The Buckeyes will be able to give them a real test. Ohio State may be a little down after last week's trouncing of Illinois. In addition, Ohio State may be anticipating next Saturday's clash with Michigan. H0wever, ready or not. the Buckeyes still have enough raw talent to down Indiana. So, give this game to Ohio State by 24. Keen backs the Buckexes by 31. 
Kansas at Nebraska: The Cornh1•-.kers have a powerful team, and that squad is waiting to make up for Ia~ ytar's 20-171oss to Oklahoma, a game which will be played next week. Kansas has a respectable squad as Colorado found out several weeks ago when the Jayhawks almost pulled off an upset, but ended up settling for a tie.The Cornhuskers had better be ready for this game and nor. be looking ahead to next week until Monday. So, give this clash to Nebraska by 6. Keen goes with the Cornhuskers by 16. Upset of the Week: Kentucky at Florida: The Wildcats have been awesome this year, and only probation is keeping them froni going to a game. The Gators have a good squad too, a team that definitely has the potential to down Kentucky. This battle will' he very dose: but the Gators should pull off this upset"by 3. Keen gots with r< niucky by 7. Last Week: Eight right aud three 1·• .-ong for :'J percent. Guest Picker, Bob Brink. had ten correcl and one wrong for 91 percent. Overall: Seveuty-seven righl and 19 incorreL; for 81 percent. 
successful on 69 of 142 a·erials for 
1,134 yards and seven tou·~hdowns. 
Even more importantly.. he has thrown only three interceptions, a statistic that should motivate the Irish secondary, who lead the nation in interceptions with 24. 
Fuller, the Atlantic Coast Con­ference's total offense leader, will hand off often to Warren ltatchford and Lester Brown. Ratchford has gained 524 yards this season after leading the team in that category in 1976 with 676 yards. Brown, officially listed as Ratchford's back­up at the tailback position, has gained 381 yards at a 4.0 yards per carry mark. Fuller's favorite receiver is Jerry Butler, who has been on the receiving end of 35 passes good for 638 yards. 
The Clemson defense has been even more successful. Before Pell, a two way performer on Bear Bryant's 1961 National Champions, came to Clemson the Tigers yielded yardage at a terrific rate. In 1975 the team ranked 128th in total defense. In 1976, with Pell in his first season as defensive eoordina­tor, Clemson improved its standing by 99 places. This year the Tigers have been in the top ten in scoring defense all season . 
The Tigers' 5-2 defensive align­ment has been especially proficient 

Notre Dame eyes Badgers
when defensing the Notre 


pass, Dame's prime offensive weapon by Gregory Solman the past three weeks. Rex Yarn, Sports Writer Roy Eppes, Ogden Hansford and Steve Ryan have headed a secon-Forget that the Irish are 0-4. dary that has allowed its opponents Forget that Wisconsin is the to complete only 37 percent of it defending champion of the NCAA. passes, the second best figure in WCHA and the Big Ten. Forget the country. The Tigers rank sixth the fact that t.!:!e "Big Red" in passing yardage yielded. Badgers are coached by last year's 
The Irish plan to test this highly Coach of the Year. and that they regarded secondary with the now return two all-Americans, includ­famous Montana to MacAfee com-ing last year's best goaltender. bination. Joe Montana is as hot as Forget all of that. any Notre Dame quarterback has Anything can happen in a Notre been in the last seven years. Not Dame-Wisconsin hockey series. It since Joe Theismann scampered has been wild and woolly in the about in the Notre Dame backfield past--exp~ct the same fhis week­has a quarterback thrown for over end. 
[continued on page 11] Last year, the Irish went to 

Wisconsin and left the first team of 
the year not to be swept by the 
Badgers in their coliseum. They 
picked up a victory on the first 
night, 4-1, and the next night 
Wisconsin won a squeeker. 4-3. 
Notre Dame chased Wisconsin as 
the season progressed, hoping that 
in fairy-tale fashion that they might 
overtake the Badgers by the time of 
the two team's next encounter at 
Notre Dame, in the last regular 
season battle of the year. How­
ever, Wisconsin stuck Jo their 
number-one spot like peanut-butter 
to a wool sock, and by the time 
Wisconsin visited Notre Dame, the 
standings in the WCHA were 
decided. The series was to be a 
matter of pride, and the Irish, 
returning from a dismal 1-2-1 road 
tri.J, were not prepared to defend 
themselves. The first night, the 
Badgers pawed them around to the 
tune of 8-3, pouring 43 shots onto 
beleaguered Irish goaltender 
Lennv Moher. 
Coach., Bob Johnson's team looked their.usual dominant selves. Outscored, intimidated along the boards, and outskated the first night. the Irish came back the second night to show the ~trenght that had carried them through several successful winning skeins earlier-in the season. 
Trailing 3-1 early in the last period, the Irish came up with a one-two punch to tie the score. An overtime solved, though the Irish <iented the pipe twice and outshot the Badgers 8-3. 
This year, the situation is diffe­rent, but the same hard-checking. tempers-flaring action is expected. Notre Dame, 0-4 and in sole possession of last place, is looking to pick up tow essential wins against a team that looks to be trouble again this year. 
Wisconsin is tied for fifth place, having split in their first two season's series. After going 1-1 in Denver, the Badgers returned to record-breaking crowds at Dane County Coliseum and split with Colorado College 8-6, 4-5. 
"Wisconsin is predicted to finish in the top four of the WCHA," commented Irish Coach Lefty Smith. "They have their All-Amer­ican goaltender Julian Baretta back again and some tremendous forwards." 
Coach Bob Johnson, however, did not start the season without some crucial replacements to make. Namely, All-American Craig Norwich and John Taft will be missing from the bluelines for the Badgers. 
However, if, as they say, teams are built from the center outward, then Wisconsin certainly has the potential to win it all again. At goal, the imcomparable JuEan 
[continued on page 111 






