
----~~ 
........, 
Rotterdam Orchestra Concert review page 6 
Weather page 2
Preview of Blues Festival page 7 


server 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's Vol. XII, No. 46 Thursday, November 10, 1977 

Faculty Senate considers retirement options 
Faculty Senate Chairman Paul Conway leads the discussion on options for changing retirement policy. [Photo by Beth Cutter] 
University officials write letters in attempt to influence judge'sdecision 

Peri E. Arnold, Chairman of the government department joins gove_rnmen~ and international 
by Maureen Flynn Editorials Editor 

A proposal being considered by the Faculty Senate would raise the University's mandatory retirement age to 70, while establishing a triple-option retirement policy for Notre Dame faculty. The proposal was presented to the Sen_tate last night by its Faculty Affairs Com­mittee. 
Option I of the proposal would permit a faculty member to retire as early as age. 62 with some loss of benefits. 
Option II would allow a faculty member who has reached the age of65 to continue teaching half-time until 70, if he so wishes. Faculty members who chose this option would begin collecting their Teach­ers Insurance and Annuity Associa­tion (TIAA) and CREF benefits, but would assume responsibility for their Blue Cross supplements. 
Option III would allow a faculty member to continue teaching full­time after 65 at the discretion of his departmental Committee on Ap­pointments and Promotions (CAP). These decisions would be based on the needs of the department. Faculty members who chose this option would collect social security and the University would continue to pay their TIAA/CREF and Blue Cross supplements. 
Prof. Katharina Blackstead, chairman of the F acuity Affairs Committee, noted that information on the effect of the various options on faculty benefits was provided by Fred Freeman, assistant director of personnel. She also noted that action by the U.S. Congress on proposed retirement legislation would modify the terms of the proposal. 
Some Senators expressed con­cern that the Committee proposal did not differ significantly from current University practice. Notre Dame currently allows faculty members to retire early and upon the recommendation of the depart­mental CAP, to continue teaching part-time past the age of 65. In rare cases, faculty members have been allowed to teach full-time past the 
1$ 
~~· 

age of 65. 
Prof. Irwin Press defended the proposal, noting that the second option would give the faculty member a right to teach part-time past the age of 65. 
Senate Vice-Chairman Sarah Daugherty concurred, saying, "Some departmental CAP's consi­der you finished at 65. They think they're doing you a favor if they consider you beyond that._ Under this proposal, faculty who have­turned 65 would be considered as automatically and hopefully as fairly as other faculty," she said. 
Several senators drew attention to the proposal's statement that Option II, besides allowing older faculty to continue teaching, would also free half-time funds for the recruitment of "new blood." 
Prof. Richard LaManna noted that Option II, along with Option III, still limits the amount of "new blood" that can be introduced into the University by tying up salary funds. He suggested that the 
Senate -proposal "make early re­tirement more attractive to balance · things out." 
The F:aculty Senate deferred action on the proposal until its next meeting. 
In other business, the Senate's Academic Manual Compliance by Drew John Bauer Committee reported that, accord­Senior Staff Reporter ing to the Academic Manual, Prof. James Danehy no longer qualifies A local U.S. district judge and for membership on the Faculty the South Bend Tribune lashed out Committee on University Libraries at several prominent area leaders, (FCUL). Press, chairman of the including University President committee, noted that the Manual Rev. Theodore Hesburgh and other specifically restricts membership to Notre Dame officials, during the "teaching 11nd research faculty." October break, for their participa­Danehy is ' considered emeritus, tion in a letter-writing campaign pending the outcome of his suit urging the judge to be lenient in against the University. the sentencing of a confessed felon. 
The committee was asked to Saying that he was not influenc­investigate the situation by Dane­ed by the 155 letters, Judge Allen by, who was elected to a three-year Sharp sentenced Ralp M:ontagano, term on the FCUL two years ago. A operator of the Flytraps restaurant letter, requesting a replacement for in Elkhart, to two years probation Danehy, was recently sent to and the maximum $20,000 fine for Director of University Libraries his involvement in operating a David Sparks by Dr. Bernard_ gambling casino. Waldman, dean of the College of University officials replied to the Science. Waldman's position was criticism by stating that the pur­upheld by acting-Provost Fr. Fer-pose of the letters was not to 
[continued on page 2] influence the judge but to supply information on the character of a man they ali called a "personal friend." 
Besides Hesburgh, the list of Notre Dame letterwriters reads like a "who's who" of past and present figures at the "Golden Dome." It included former Provost Fr. James T. Burtchaell, Dean of Students James A. Roemer, Uni­versity Counsel Philip J. Faccenda, Trustee Arthur J. Decio, Head Basketball Coach Richard "Dig­ger" Phelps, former Head Football Coach Ara Parseghian and several alumni. Hesburgh's brother, James T. Hesburgh, also wrote in support of Montagano. 
The Tribune stated in an editor­ial that it was "aghast" at the manner in which scores of promi­nent leaders engaged in the cam­paign and that the "go-easy on Ralph pressure'' was an impressive example of how the white collar establishment can rally for an unworthy cause. The paper pointed out that although most of the letter-writers felt ''personal com­passion for a friend in trouble, a surprising number of them consid­ered his willful violation of federal laws for profit secondary to the virtues they saw in him.'' 
Although it is not a usual practice for a judge to make public the character letters which the confidential Parole Officer's pre­sentence report is based on, Sharp cited the recent discussion of full disclosure in government and made them part of the public record. 
Fr. Hesburghwrotethat he does not make a practice of writing such letters, and that he made an exception in this case because ''Montagano is a good family man who has always been most unsel­fish with his time as well as his resources to help those less fortu­nate in our community." Because of this and Montagano' s public admission of his wrongdoing, he thought that protation would be a just punishment. . . 
-. .._,_.,_·.
.!JJ_ 
..... I ,.111!":!­
.J 

Burtchaell called Montagano a 
friend and said that "to whatever 
degree he may have been found at 
fault in his public duties," he 
hoped that the judge will take into 
regard the ''wonderfully consider­
ate and honest reputation that one 
can always find at his hands." 
Neither Hesburgh or Burtchaell 
were available for comment last 
night. 
Roemer commented on the criti­
cism, however, by saying that it 
was "entirely proper" to give the 
type of personal information that 
[continued on page 4] 

Investigation
of rape case 
in progress 

Notre Dame Security and Detec­
tive Sergeant John McAllister of 
the St. Joseph's County Detective 
division joined forces to investigate 
the rape of two St. Mary's students 
Tuesday night on the Notre Dame 
campus. No new leads or informa· 
tion have turned up yet, they said. 
According to Dick Conklin, direc· 
tor of Notre Dame Information · Services, the man they are search­
ing for is approximately five feet, 
nine inches tall weighing 160-165 
pounds. He has short dark hair 
parled on the right side of his head 
and a Ugbt complexion, which 
ConkUn explained as "meaning he 
Is caucaslon." The students also 
noticed that he was wearing a black 
onyx ring. 
Arthur Pears, director of Notre 
Dame Security, stated they have 
reason to believe that the assailant, 
described as a young man, is not a 
Notre Dame student. No descrip­
tion of his car is available. 
Pears does not expect to increase 
the security force as a result of the 
rape. "We can't patrol that road 
much more than we are right 
now," Peats said. He added that 
the road is patroled every twenty 
minu,tes. 
studies majors at a smoker in the K of C building. 

,....News Briefs 
f==::::::=:::::::=:::::::=:::::::=:::=::::::::::=:::::::=:::=:::::::::::= National 
Dollar woes 

WASHINGTON -A continueing decline in the value of the dollar would increase consumer prices in this country and could throw the world economy into a tailspin, Chairman Arthur Burns of the Federal Reserve Board said yesterday. Burns told the Senate Banking Committee that if the dollar is depreciated, forces will be released that neither Congress, the Federal Reserve, nor anyone else will be able to control. 
Bad job Jimmy 

NEW YORK-A large majority of voters in three heavily Democratic big cities say President Jimmy Carter is doing a bad job managing the problems of urban America -a world some voters clearly would like to escape. An Associated Press -NBC election day poll conducted Tuesday shows Carter's overall job rating among voters in Houston, Cleveland and New York City is low, and their view of his performance plummets precipitously when they specifically evaluate his handling of city problems. 
Kiritsis found innocent 
INDIANAPOLIS-Anthony G. Kiritsis, found innocent by reason of insanity last month in the kidnapping of an Indianapolis mortgage executive, was found dangerous and incompetent and turned over to a state mental agency yesterday by a judge who said he should have been convicted in the first place. Marion County Superior Court Judge Michael T. Dugan ordered the Indiana Department of Mental Health to institute civil commitment proceedings within ten days. Those proceedings will be filed in probate court, which will then decide whether Kiritsis goes free or is hospitalized for psychiatric treatment. 
WEATHER 


Very windy today with a 20 percent chance of afternoon and evening showers, possibly mixed with snow flurries. Highs in the upper 30s. Lows in the mid 20s. Partly coudy tomorrow. Highs in the mid 30s. 
,_On Campus Today_~ 
3:30pm  lecture, "patristic psychology in 'beowulf': hroth­gar's sermon," prof. robert e. kaske, cornell univ., rm. 715 mem. lib., sponsored by medieval institute.  
4:30pm  lecture, "metaphor & belief", ernest sandeen, sponsored by english dept., lib. aud., open to public.  
7 pm  meeting, young democrats, elections will be held.  Iafortune,  rm  2-d,  
7, 9, 11 pm  film, "midnight cowboy," union, eng. aud., $1.  sponso~ed  by  student  
7:30pm  lecture, "perspectives on nature," nd art faculty, art  

8pm 8 pm 
8:30­10 pm 
12:10 ­

gallery. concert, smc fall concert, o'laughlin aud., no charge. lecture, "should the ancient concept sacrement be 
abondoned?" edward kilmartin s.j., sponsored by gtu/theology dept., lib. aud. open to all. preview, bluesfestival, nazz, basement of Iafortune. 
film, laurel & hardy, darby's place, Iafortune. 
12:30 am 


Phone directories compiled for ND-SMC students 
by Jana Scbutt 
The official Directory has been 

distributed to each dorm. Accor­
ding to Carl Magel, director of 
printing and publications, the book 
was compiled by his office in 
conjunction with the registrar's 
office. 
Notre Dame staff listings were 

obtained by memos sent to the 
professors at the end of last year. 
The St. Mary's College Purchasing 
office was the source for staff 
information. 
Tom Gryp, director of the Stud­

ent Union, said that the first 
sixteen pages were his organiza­
tion's responsibility. 
A preliminary booklet was distri­buted to students at the beginning of this semester. Forms on the front of this directory asked for any changes or corrections that might be needed. 
Twenty-two.working hours went into the printing of the directories. Hall presidents were asked to collect their dorm's allotment of booklets from the warehouse_ Books which could not be picked up 
were distributed as a service of the 
Student Union. 
Off-campus students' directories 

may be collected at the Student 
Government office located on the 
second floor of LaFortune. 
India Association celebrates~ Dwali 
The India Association of Notre Dame is sponsoring a dinner and an .evening of entertainment to celebrate the Indian festival of Diwali, commonly known as the Festival of Lights. The function will be held at the Indiana University at South Bend's cafeteria this Satur­day at 6:30p.m. 
All those interested are welcome to attend. Admission will be $3.50. The India Association would appre­ciate if all those planning to attend could give advance notice. For further information, contact either ~anjay at 2SJ-3635, Arvind at 288-2991 or Alex at 287-2588. 


St.. Mary's singers to perform 
of Colorado in Boulder. He has
others will be included in the
The annual fall choral concert program. studied choral conducting withsponsored by St. Mary's Music John Oark, Eph Ehly, Lynn Whit­
Professor Lawrence has been a
department will be presented to­ten and Walter Collins. 
member of the Saint Mary's music
morrow at 8 pm in O'Laughlin Students from various majors on
faculty since 1969 and directs the 
Auditorium. 
both campuses make up the Mad­Under the direction of Raymond Madrigal Singers. He is currently rigal Singers and the CollegeSprague and Arthur Lawrence, the organist-choirmaster of St. Paul's Choir. The concert is free to theSaint Mary's Women's Choir, the 
Episcopal Church in La Porte, public.
Staint Mary's-Notre Dame Col­Indiana. 
legiate Choir, and the Madrigal 
Raymond Sprague joined the 
Singers will perform music from 
music faculty as an instructor this 
Renaissance motets to folk-rock 
year. Holder of a master of music 
arrangements for chorus. Works 
degree from the University of New 
by Schutz, Croft, Mendelssohn, 
Mexico, he is currently completing 
Schubert, Copland, Lojeske and 
his doctoral work at the University 
Junior class sponsors hayride and square dance 


The ND-SMC Junior Class is sponsoring a square dance and hayride tomorrow from 7 p.m. to midnight at the Diamond D Ranch in Niles. Beer, hotdogs and marshmallows will be served at the hayride. 
Tickets for the event will be sold in the St. Mary's dining hall this evening for $3 or $3.50 with bus 
Win'e and cheese 
party to be held 
The Student Union Social Comm­ission is sponsoring a Wine and Cheese Party on Friday, Nov. 18 from 9 p.m. to 1 a.m. The party will be held at the First Unitarian Church, 101 East North Shore Drive, just off U.S. 31. 
Tickets go on sale Monday at the Student Union Ticket Office for $1. There is a limited number of tickets available, so students are encour­aged to buy their tickets early. 
The Quickee will stop at the First Un!t~rian Church that evening to facthtate transportation. 
Faculty Senate 
[continued from page 1] dinand Brown, despite a unani­mous request from the FCUL that Danehy be a!lowed to complete his term. 
Press noted that the FCUL is the only University committee whose membership is specifically limited to "teaching and research faculty" and suggested that the restrictive wording may have been uninten­tional. Press said it is "ridiculous" for the University to prevent Dane­by from completing his term. 
The Senate passed a resolution that a letter be sent to Brown stating that the "Senate takes note that the provisions in the Academic Manual are inconsistent, and in !the interests of equity Danehy should continue to be eligible to serve on the Faculty Committee on Univer­sity Libraries." 
The Senate also remanded con­sideration of the status of emeritus faculty to its Faculty Affairs Com­mittee. 
In other business, Daugherty summarized the meeting of the Faculty Affairs Committee of the Board of Trustees as ''very posi­tive," saying that the committee discussed "substantive issues" and that "most of the Trustees were very receptive to our ideas." Among the topics of discussion, she said, were the role of the future provost, the need for data for input into the Budget Priorities Commit­tee and the desire of the faculty to be informed and consulted in important University decisions. Daugherty said the Trustees' Fa­culty Affairs Committee will meet two or three more times this year. 
The Observer Is published Mon­day through Friday except durtng exam and vec:.~tlon periods. Tl)e Observer Is published by the students of Notre Dame and Selnt Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purdlued tor UO per year CS 1 0 per semester) from The Obsenmr, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana ~16556. Second clan postage paid, Notre Dame. Indiana, 46556. . The Observer Is a member of the Asaoclated ~~~. All repro­duction rtghts •re reaerved. 
transportation. Tickets will be a­vailable at Notre Dame from hall representatives. 
Buses to the ranch will leave from Holy Cross Hall at St. Mary's at 6:30 p.m. and from the Notre Dame Library at 6:45 p.m., and every 45 minutes after that. Directions to the Diamond D Ranch are on the tickets. 



r:.:::~..~~~f:~~D 
Asst. Night Editor: Margie 
Brassil layout Staff: Leigh Tunakan Features layout: Drew John Bauer 
Sports layout: Bob Keen Typists: Gwen Coleman, Stacy Weaver, Leigh Tunakan, Ka­ren Ch1ames, Lisa DiValerio 
E.M. T.: Karen Chiames Day Editor: Kathy Connally Copy Reader: Jack Pizzolato 
Ann Gales ' Ad layout: Paula Carroll lhotographer: Beth Cutter J 
HE, DOVER21stWEEK IN DOLBY STEtiEOPHONIC SOUND 
Fri. Sat. Sun. 
1:45-4:15 
6:45-9:15 
SPECIAL FRI-SAT Monty Python 
PRICE!

MIDNITE SHOWS 

O'Laughlin Auditorium 8:00 pm Nov. 10, 1977 

.[ffi] SCOT"': 

saaoo

The Name to listen to. 
Receivers I Tuners I Amplifiers /Turntables I Speakers 
406 POWER AMP is just right for dorm or medium size room when used with good efficient speakers ... list price $149.95, you can't beat this deal offered only to 
N.D. students while 6 unites last ... check other SCOTT deals. 
THE LOUDSPEAKER 277-3121 
STATE ROAD23 E. Near Ironwood "Across from Radio Shcak" 
12-8 Monday thru Friday Saturday 9-5 
'" ' .t... :.. " • .. J_. ~ ~ "o l • I ~ • ~ · . "I l 
--~-~----~---~~ 
Thursday, November 10, 197,7  the observer~  3  
I  
According to Goodpaster  

Corporate conscience needed 

by Jake Morrissey Staff Reporter 
The idea that corporations have moral consciences was put forth by philosophy professor Ken Good­paster at the Business Administra­tion Faculty Forum yesterday after­noon. In his discussion titled "Ethics and Business," Good­paster, who currently teaches a course on the subject, claimed that there is a need "for a corporate conscience, and that we ought to foster its developtnent.'' 
According to Goodpaster, there are two approaches to initiating moral concepts into the business community. "The first approach, and the one that's generally ac­cepted as the norm" is the instil­lation of a "moral sensitivity" into the individual manager, he said. But, he noted, ''the development of a conscience is just as important as the development of the wallet." 
Goodpaster proposed a second ethical approach which, he said, "needs a certain amount of em­phasis because it is relatively untried--that of a corporate con­science." 
Goodpaster used the example of a jury to emphasize his point. "Suppose there is a jury that is faced with a rape case. The judge Professor Goodpaster spoke on 'Ethics and Busi­reminds the jury that there are ness' at yesterday's Business Administration Fa­many verdicts which they can bringculty Forum [Photo by Beth Cutter] back. Each juror may have a 

ISO sponsors 'international cafe' 

by Mike Kenahan ist and piano player Jules Thomp­
son. Thompson is a former "Mr. 
The International Students or­Campus" and has even displayed ganization (ISO) will sponsor an his talents on television's "Gong "international cafe" night on Mon­Show." day Nov. 14 from 9 p.m. to 12 a.m. Araujo said that all students at the Senior Bar, according to from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Carlos Araujo, coordinator of the are invited to attend the !SO's event. "first major event" of the year. He 
The program will be based on the mentioned that a .$1 admission fee !SO's theme of "One Earth" and would be charged with all proceeds will feature Notre Dame impresion-going to future ISOevents. 
Weekend bus service may be discontinued 
by Florenceanne Strigle 
A proposal. to replace Transpo bus service during weekend evening hours with a St. Mary's operated shuttle bus will be pre­sented next week to John Duggan president of St. Mary's College, and Jason Lindower, St. Mary's Controlier. 
The proposal, which will be presented by St. Mary's Co-ex­change Commissioner Mary Ann Fuchs, is a response to a recent decision by Notre Dame and St. Mary's to possibly discontinue the shuttle bus service on weekends and evenings due to students not paying the 15 cent fare required at those times. The final decision will be made Nov. 26. 
Fuch' s proposal recommends that the St. Mary's bus, presently used only by athletic teams, be used Friday and Saturday, from 6 
p.m. to 2:30a.m., and Sunday from 6 p.m. to 12 a.m., and that the present Transpo services be re-. tained Monday through Thursday, from 6 p.m. to 12:30 a.m. 
Fuchs cited the relatively smaJI Saturday and Sunday usage of the shuttle, the need of a shuttle in bad weather, the student concern for the fate of the shuttle as evidenced by increased student renumera­tion, the academic responsiblity of Notre Dame and St. Mary's to provide transportaion in the even­ing to lectures and libraries on the opposite campus and the added expense of Transpo usage on weekends due to overtime for drivers as reasons for implementa­tion of her proposal. "Of course this proposal has bugs," admitted Fuchs. "Week­end usage of the St. Mary's bus co'lld clash with the needs of the athletic teams. Still, the proposal is the most financially feasible alternative to complete cut-off of the shuttle service on weeknights and weekends," she stated. 
During the 1976-77 school year. Transpo reported operating costs totalling between $75,000 and $90,000. It received subsidations of$25,000 apiece from Notre Dame and St. Mary's for the 7 a.m. -6 
p.m. weekday service. 
The balance of the cost was supposed to be paid by the 15 cent evening and weekend fares. However, Robin Lavender, a senior at Notre Dame who is presently studying the shuttle bus problem, stated that Transpo sustained a $21,000 loss during that period. According to Mary Ann Laverty, director of Student Activities at St. Mary's the loss occurred because 
students  rode  the  bus  without  
paying fares.  
As  a  result  of  the  situation,  

Transpo demanded a 24 percent increase in subsidation from each school this year. "In response,': explained Laverty, "Notre Dame decided to completely end the shuttle system during evening and weekend hours.'' However, the administration allowed a 90 day leeway for students to take action and present proposals concerning the shuttle. 
Posters urging students to pay the fair were placed all over the Notre Dame and St. Mary's campuses after the administration announced its decision. Also, a ridership survey was conducted by the St. Mary's Board of Governance and the Notre Dame Ombudsman. Laverty stated that the results of this survey "showed increased financial .support of the shuttle, yet 
' [continued on page 5] ,P 
,> IP, ··~~--,......,..'0!'",-,"Wt".-... J' --.,.-.... # ..-~ •J>,'&''_.._._.J_-.&. 0.A\oi.'~'A'_. .t ~·~ J< • •• :.1.:.1.,. oiii.J'' •' ~·. _. e
Jll .A...... 
·'There are a lot of other things coming up but this is the big opening,'' Araujo pointed out. 
The coordinator described the evening as "kind of a pub type of thing, like an Irish pub." "It's kind of a unique happy hour," he added. 
Araujo said that this event is in keeping with the !SO's main objec­tive which he described as being "cultural" and tending toward "some kind of social interaction." The international cafe is ''a good chance for a nice and easy social gathering, Araujo stressed. 
The ISO also has made tenative plans for their annual Christmas dinner and party later this year. However, according to Araujo, "the main event" will not be until next April when the ISO sponsors its "International Festival Week." 
:  EVERY  :  
:  WED/THURS  :  
•• ••e  NIGHT 25¢ Drafts at  ••••••  
e  LOUIE'S  :  

l--------­
1 
I 

distinct idea as to the defendent's innocence or guilt, but the verdict of the jury as a whole may be totally different. So too with a corpor­ation. The actions of individuals in the corporation may be different than the corporation's eventual action." 
"You aren't going to develop a conscience with a child by slap­ping him, although that is part of it," Goodpaster continued. "It is the same with corporations. You aren't going to develop a corporate moral sense by slapping a corpor­ation with lawsuit after lawsuit." 
Goodpaster concluded the 25­minute meeting by making the comment that "a good corporation is closely linked to a good person. We hopefully want to encourage both." 
Goodpaster graduated from Notre Dame with a degree in mathematics and did graduate work in philosophy at the Univer­sity of Michigan. In January, 1978, he will be one of 12 academicians from across the country who will participate in the Faculty Forum sponsored by the Shell Oil Corpor­ation. 
Square dance planned 
by Anne Bachle 
A square dance, complete with professional caller and refresh­ments, will reel into the Angela Athletic Facility Friday night, ac­cording to Social Commissioner JoAnn Baggiano. The dance runs from 8:30 until12, and admission is $.50. St. Mary's Social Commis­sion is co-sponsoring the event with McCandless Hall. 
A Thanksgiving basket drive is being organized by Social Commis­sion, and students are asked to bring money or any non-perishable food to Karen Reitz in Room 455 LeMans before Nov. 21. The Social Commission will then arrange the baskets arid distribute them to needy families in various parishes in South Bend. 
The annual Christmas Bazaar will be held in LeMans lobby Dec. 5, 6, and 7. All halls, classes, groups, and individual students are invited to participate by sponsoring a booth or making items to sell. Local merchants and craftsmen will also have their wares on display for sale. Booth applications may be obtained from Christy Jones in Room 221 LeMans. 
The Student Players 
America's longest running musical! 
The Fantastiks 
I 

by Harvey Schmidt and Tom Jones 
November 11, 12, 18,19,1977 8 pm s1 Washington Hall 
Tickets available at SU ticket office and at the door. 
r.~------------------------1



I juniors I
Sponsored by SMC-ND 

I HAYRIDE/I 
SQUAREDANCE I 
I 

L_________________________J 
FR1  NOV 11  IN NILES  I I  
7-12 pm  I I  
Tickets on  7-12 pm  3:00  II  
sale  beer, hotdogs,  or  1  

Wed -Fri FUN!! J.so -bus 1 
·---., 


Tonight you get what you like best in a beer... 12 OZ BEER 
35$ 
michelob 40t 
~­



Thursday, November 10, 1977 
the observer 

One volunteer returns from Brazil ••• 
by Jean Powley St. Mary's Editor 

"The conditions were horrifying, yet the people were very happy. They had a tremendous faith in God and that, along with the love of family and friends, made them very happy," commented Therese Busch, a 1976 graduate of St. Mary's who served as a lay mission volunteer in southern Brazil. 
"I learned so much from the 
Brazilians," Busch related. "They 
are so loving and warm. My 
lifestyle will be much simpler now. 

I just couldn't be happy now with 
the frills. knowing that so many 
people were without necessitites." 

Busch and a fellow classmate, Joan Derlacher, spent a year together working in Telemaco Bor­ba, a small town in the province of Parana. While there they lived with Brazilian families and worked at the towns Center for Human Promotion which is run by the Sisters of the Holy Cross. At night they taught English to support themselves. The money they earned was used for rent and personal spending. However, whenever their earnings were not sufficient, the Sisters of the Holy Cross furnished them with the necessary funds. 
Although the two former St. Mary's students knew little Port­uguese when they left for Brazil last October, they learned quickly as they catered to the needs of the poor. Through the Center they distributed donated medicine, held 

Letter campaign 
[continued from page 1] 

the letters gave about Montagano. 
"As a lawyer, I understand that the 
procedure of formulating a pre­
sentence report, after a plea of 
guilty, is to obtain as much infor­
mation as possible about the per­
son who entered the plea," he said. 

ln his letter, Roemer wrote that 
he liked Montagano "very much" 
and that he thought that Monta­
gano learned ''many lessons from 
the experience of the past year 
which will never be repeated." He 
further wrote that, based on his 
experience as a trial lawyer and 
prosecutor, he thought that Mon­
tagano should be given probation 
since he saw "no worthwhile 

purpose served by sending (Monta­gano) to prison." 
Roemer said that he discussed the case and the possibility of writing the letter with Montagano .:ln several occasions since his brother, Thomas Roemer, repre­sented him. "The final decision (about the letter) was of course up to me--l would never have written it before a plea was made." 
"I don't condone what Ralph did, but I'm not going to condemn the guy," Phelps told Tbe Obser­ver yesterday. "He is a great guy--a personal friend of mine--and if I got a friend that is in trouble, when does he need me the most? When he is in trouble." 
"I am going to help him the best I can," Phelps continued. "That's the Christian way of doing things, isn't it?" 
Phelps called attention to the fact that Montagano "didn't hurt any­body, the only thing he did was gamble a little." He stated that off-track betting is legal in New York and some states run lotteries and that these things are not any different from gambling. "There is an inconsistency throughout the country about gambling," he add­ed. 
Phelps commented on the sus­pended sentence saying that Mon­tagano "has paid enough" by admitting his guilt. "This man has been hurt enough--we don't have to punish him any more," he said. 
One of the more interesting letters was written by Bernie Crimmins, former assistant football 
coach un~er ~ead . Coach Frank Leahy. In 1t, Cnmmms stated that 

~~»J48l'•dia.\.~~s ~-.,'\.\.""''-~~':.~ '\.'\~Jl 
monthly food and clothing drives, filled out the required birth, death, marriage and retirement forms for illiterate persons, helped to build several simple wooden homes for the needy on donated land, and assisted in social, religious and educational activities. 
People benefiting from the Cen­ter's services, according to Busch, donated two hours each week to make handicraft items which would be sold at bazaars to support the Center. Those participating in these sessions looked forward to them each week as a time to visit one another and pray together. 
The extreme poverty of the Brazilians she met shocked Busch. "The home situation is sad. At least 12 families come tothe Center every day looking for homes. Many live on the streets, under bridges, in shacks constructed of old bill­boards and even in the open area directly under houses built on stilts," she explained. 
Despite all of their suffering and disease, however, the people were happy. "They have discovered the real values in life. I have come back feeling very grateful for my education and the simple pleasures -what really brings happiness," Busch said. 
The fifth largest country in the world, Brazil's biggest export is coffee and the area in which Bu~ch lived is the republic's climatically­temperate coffee-growing heart­land. Coffee is served with every meal. The poor basically live on a diet of rice and beans, while those who are financially more stable 
parties for the football players and other parties for the coaches." 

He went on to state that he 
"cannot think of an individual out 
of that great team who would not 
say that Ralph Montagano was one 
of the finest friends he had during 
their time at Notre Dame." 
Montagano pleaded guilty to the 
gambling· charge on August 29, 
admitting that he helped run the 
gambling operation at the Holiday 
Inn in Elkhart, authorized credit, 
and dealt cards to the customers. 
According to the Tribune, the 
casino operation was finally broken 
up by Federal Bureau of Investiga­
tion agents who infiltrated the 
operation last January. 
Julius C. Werbrouck Jr., the 
operator of the motel, was also 
sentenced the same day to a similar 
fine and probation. Werbrouck, 
who was found guilty by a jury this 
September, also received several 
character letters attesting to his 
virtues. 
Also arrested and convicted of 
the same charges were Samual A. 
Campagna, who was sentenced to 
two years in prison and fined 
$15,000, and James Easley, who 
was sentenced to one year and 
fined $5,000. 
Although Sharp said that the letter writers wasted their paper and ink, the Tribune pointed out that Montagano and Werbrouck received suspended sentences while the two other men were sent to jail. Sharp commented that the only reason he did not send the other two to prison was their health and the belief that Werbrouck's teen-age daughter needs his gui­dance. Both men suffer from heart problems. Werbrouck suffered an apparent seizure during his trial. 
Art Gallery symposium 
The Notre Dame Art Gallery and Art Department will sponsor a symposium, "perspectives on Na­ture," tonight at 7:30 p.m. The program is part of the current exhibition of landscape paintings, prints and drawings from the 17th century to the present. It is open to the public. 
Joseph R?ston, assistant profes­sor of art h~ willJe::.rt tn_rnw­

include some meat, soup, salad and 
bread in their menus. The Brazil­
ians consume few fruits and vege­
tables. 
As for the tense political sit­
uation, there was none in Telemaco 
Borba, according to Busch. "It's 
cooled down a lot. Americans are 
safe there. The Sisters of the Holy 
Cross have never been approached 
by the police and they help 
refugees and others. They are not 
antagonistic to Americans at all," 
Busch stated. 
An elementary education major 
while at St. Mary's, Busch had 
wanted to volunteer one or two years 
to help the poor ever since she was 
a freshman in hight school. When 
she heard about the Sisters of the 
Holy Cross' lay volunteer program, 
she immediately wanted to become 
involved. Although her family was 
apprehensive at first, once they 
realized how important it was to 
her, they were very supportive, 
Busch said. 
While in South America, she was 
able to do some travelling, to 
Paraguay, Argentina, Brazilia and 
Rio. The Davenport, Iowa resident 
even spent three weeks teaching 
•••and four 
carry on 
by Jake Morrissey 
Staff Reporter 
Four St. Mary's students will begin a one to two year volunteer program next month in Brazil as part of a Holy Cross ACT progrm. The program's purpose, according to coordinator Sister Madeleine Therese, is to "try to give a full dimension to the Church." 
The four are Patty Carey, Mary Hellinghausen, Molly Donovan and Mary Lour Schneider. Carey, Hellinghausen and Schneider are St. Mary's graduates; Donovan is a graduate of the University of St. Thomas in Texas. 
"We will be working in the city (San Paoulo) as well as the coun­try," Carey said. "I'm out in the rural areas working with the poor along with Mary Hellinghausen." Donovan and Schneider will teach English classes to University stu­dents in San Paoulo. 
Although the students do not select their own job, "we try to fit options with the person who is going to be involved in it as closely as possible, "Therese said. Other programs with Bangladesh and Uganda, along with the possibility of Notre Dame students becoming involved in the program are in the­"research stages." 
No special experience is needed for entry into the program, Schnei­der noted, and pointed to the fact that the women leaving in Decem­ber "are business administration, art and English graduates.'' Knowledge of Portugu,ese is required, and the four have been taking language courses for two monthS in nnon>Lral 
~ 
50% MORE FREE
VITAMIN RG~~L'SUPER PLENAMINS 
Multi-Vitamins with Minerals <~~> 
38 TABLETS FREE when ~ou bur 
the 72-t•blet elzel 18.80 VALUE, 5' SAVE $2.95­



C500mg.,1"9 ,
ONLY$56

Ta1~ts $ 
11 Vitamin• •nd 8 Minerala In each tablet.
• ~ 
-R.&YU ALCO-REX® 
RA2UU/ ASPIRINRUBBING ALCOHOL
5 I s)49
~·· s :~~
Abrtsk,
lnvl~oratlng C ~
Tablets
•
rub. 16 oz_ 
U. •j·'"!.i'!i,fW'hj:i·Sjj;l. 
426 N. Michigan Park at McDonald's 
c-
Portuguese, religion, health and math to children in the jungle. 
Busch now hopes to enter grad­uate school in January to study for a master's degree in educaion and counseling. Derlacher will remain in Brazil until June or July when her contract expires. 
Anyone, male or female, inter­ested in volunteering to work at 
;:;: for carryout ordelivery to :;:;least one year with the poor in a · · · · · foreigh mission shouls contact Sr. ) your room piping hot, phone { Madeline Therese, Mission Coor-;:;: ;:;: 
~~#l~~9i~~~~~~~-d ~~~ o;i~t~!sh~~ :.1_).J_: CLD:~~7~~9~DAYS ::[_:\[_:
the Holy Cross have missions in Brazil, Israel, Bangledesh and :;~; 4 pm-11 weekdays } Uganda. Anyone wishing to con-::;: 4 pm-1 weekends ::;:
tribute funds should also contact ::;?.:::::::::::::::::::::.::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:·:·:;:;:::;:;:;::::; Sr. Madeline Therese. 

are sponsoring a 
SQUARE DANCE 
Fri. Nov. 11 8:30 -11 pm 
Angela Athletic Facility 
cider and donuts admission 50' Be there or be n 
w 
..J 
~ 
en
.... 
a: 
w 
1­
z
-

The National Shakespeare Company == O'Laughlin Auditorium St Mary's College w ~onday 14. November at eight pm Ttekets avatlable at the ND Stud(;nt Union & J: O'Laughlin Box Offices One dollar fifty 
1­


ND-SMC and Donald Freund. ,.-.,....,_..,..,.._~.....,,.-.,....,_-.,..,.._~,,,.__,..-.,~..,._,.._J'....,,......,,..-.,....,....,._....,,.,.....,,.-.,,....,....,..~.....,,....,... 
SMC-ND students get taste of Ireland in first year abroad 
by ~ureeu Sajbel Senior Staff Reporter 

In this foreign study program, those with last names beginning with "Me", or "Mac" or "0" are in the front of the line at registra­tion. Students do not "take" courses, they "read" for subjects, and course schedules are arranged in year long blocks. 
Despite the basic differences due to Ireland's culture and educational system, ttu.: first year of the St. Mary's Ireland program has started smoothly, according to Sr. 
M. Alma, director of the program. 
Alma accompanied the 18 pio­neer students to Ireland on Sept. 27 for an orientation program in Dublin and the first days of classes at St. Patricks College. The college is located in Maynoth, 14 miles from Dublin and the St. Mary's program opened there this year on an experimental basis. Of the program's 18 students, 13 are sophomores and five are juniors. Half of the students come from St. Mary's and half from Notre DAme. 
"It will be a rigorous academic experience," Alma said, "but no one was overwhelmed; they seemed to take it all in stride.'' Students adjusted quickly to the living conditions and class sche­dules, she continued, and they "all acknowledged the fact that aca­demic life was going to be a very rigorous one in contrast to some other foreign programs, but no one complained about it. The students spoke freely of their anticipations for the year." 
The program began with a three day orientation program in Dublin. Gerald, a former Irish citizen now living in the states and a past member of the St. Mary's board of regents, presented several lectures on Irish history for the orientation. Students toured the Dublin area by bus, stopping at various cathe­drals, museums, castles and Trin­ity College to see the renowned Book of KeUs. One evening they attended the play ''The -Living Quarters" by a young Irish play-
Saturday recital: Omnibus 
The Notre Dame Concert Series integration of live sound, recorded will present "Omnibus," a multi­sound and theatre they aim to media ensemble for contemporary involve the audience meaningfully music, in a recital 8:15 p.m. in a contemporary aesthetic exper­Saturday in the Library Audi­ience. torium. The recital, an addition to Saturday's program includes the previously announced series, is works by 20th century composers open to the public without charge. Luciano Berio ("Cinque Varia­
"Omnibus," whose musical el­zioni"), George Crumb (Madri­ements are flute, trombone, per­
gals," Book II), Karlheinz Stock­cussion piano and electronic sound hausen ("Solo fuer Melodieinstru­is a group of artists in residence at 
mit Ruckkoepplung"), Edgar Var-l Memphis State University. They 
ese ("Density 21.5") and John, describe themselves as "a music­Cage ("Flower and Sunsmell"). ~ 
The program also includes im-,theatre-light experience group pre­senting continuous aural and visual 
provisatory interludes, pieces by ~ environments." Through their 
the group's co-founders James, Baird and Douglas Lemmon and pieces by members Kate Waring 
transportation 
FRI 2:()()-4:30-?:Q0-9:15 

'Findin\! fl11: 01ic lfOIIIovc . .
' . 
is findin\! t/OIIrsclt.
' . 

wright, Brian Friel, and another night they ate at a restaurant that featured a floor show of Irish songs and dances. 
Following the orientation pro-. gram, the group proceeded to St. Patrick's College to register and begin classes. The American students were alphabetized with the Irish students at registration because of information sent to the school ahead of time. "Instead of starting at the beginning of the alphabet, all ofthe Mac's and Me's were called first and then all of the O's. This cleared out half of the 
group  of  almost  600 first  year  
students," stated  Alma.  
Most students  chose  the  main  

Arts block, which consists of English, history, sociology and philosophy. Substitutions were allowed and some chose geo­graphy, math, French and classical civilization. Also available were courses in Anglo-English Litera­ture, anthropology, social psychol­o~ and modern histories of Ireland, England and Europe. 
''The students like the classes so far, especially the sociology," stated Alma. 
Courses are organised in once a week lecture blocks with all four courses lasting the full year. Students receive 36 credit hours according to Alma, despite the fact that St. Patricks does not give semester hours. The grading system, she explained, will also be converted to that of St.-Mary's and Notre Dame. 
Students live in four houses about ten minutes from the school. "All houses had fully equipped kitchens and a fireplace inthe living room," recalled Alma. One of the women's houses is a two-story with two double bedrooms, two single bedrooms, a living room, kitchen, dinette and two baths. The other houses are similar, but are one­story and have only two double bedrooms. 
Alma stated that the students were happy with their living situ­ations, but still needed some time for adjustment. "There's the usual adaption to a new culture, even 
thought the language is th1 same, she explained. "They have to get used to less of the American efficiency. For instance, only one house has a telephone and it would take three years to get phones in the other houses." 
"Next year's program will run similarly," Alma said, "but the enrollment will be enlarged slightly.'' Student~ interested in next year's program may contract Sr. Alma in 129 LeMans for applications and information. 

0\__ 
Stuck for a gift? 

We have all sorts of stuff at Stuff Plants, jeans, jean tops, glasshead procucts 
Complete line o.f Paraphernalkt to serve your needs 
Stuff t-shirts $3 each 
10% Discount on Stuff papers Team T -Shirts 5 for a dollar 
10% off




r-----------------------,I with this. coupon 10% off 
'* 
Turquo1se ­IL.Rinas-Bracelets-Watch Bands· Belt Buckles-Brouches

-----------------------_.11., 
.. 

Show Call the theatre Times 
1:30 

for times 4:00 
6:30 
9:00 
"one of 
the strongest 
Motion Pictures ever 
made" 
Li{Smlth NY Dally 
A Po.amount ~-.Times 

FRI.,. M SAT. 


Thursday, November 10, 1977 the observer 
CAMPUS MINISTRY
an INQUIRY AND 
C811JP.US 
miniStry CATECHUMENATE PROGRAM 
For anyone wishing to find out J!IOr~ about our Christian faith and Catholic 
tradition 1 
For anyone thinking about becoming a
D 
Catholic 
. For rmre informrtion, drop by the Car11X15 Ministry offiC2S in the Nlermrial Ulnry or Badin Hall, or call 6536 or 3820. 
~ 
731 Lincolnway West 
288-3559 
:open daily 10-8 
j 
-.___ _ _.JJ­
5 

• i 
the Obl8f'Y8[ Thursday, November 10, 1977 
The Preservation Of the Village : 
Social Space at Notre Dam 



Leo C. Hansen 
Unobserved and unseen, within a golden field speckled by the browns and reds of autumn, lay a land whose potential was· merely hinted at by its omnipotent rever­ence and dignity. The mysticism of the land was quite real: in the snow covered lakes, Fathdr Sorin was remined of the purity of our lady. The symbolism was revealed in the founding of the mission, and a place to be known as "Notre Dame du lac" was conceived. 
Father Sorin's concepts and ideals were clear, from the beginning of the develop­ment of the buildings of the Notre Dame campus. It is a village, the most intimate and cohesive social unit known in the history of the urban landscape. It is a ''city in a field" -an urban academia amidst the Midwestern "wasteland." It is a "place;" Its uniqueness is its symbolism, mysticism and spiritual context, composed within an artistic portrayal of the natural landscape. 
~ 
r 
I 
"At our entrance, badly in need of redefinition, instead of the bus station and traffic control box we might place a large basin of water, almost like a holy font." The receptacle would receive rainwater and would be a symbolic reminder of the lakes, hidden from the main entrance but significantly the historical origin and foundation point of the university site. "In both a historical and contemporary context, the most successful examples of places that preserve a mystical quality are those in which the origins of its claiming are evident.'' 
The university's plan was innaugurated on a baroque theme: the diagonal formed between the lakes-a French axis termina­ting at the symbolic dome. The introduct­ion of the Administration Building and the surrounding buildings was a significant deviation from the initial Baroque axis. A rectangular, Cartesian-type grid was es-

Thi Locations ot:.,!l!'~ 

"I believe Father Sorin to be Notre Dame's first landscape architect,'' observes Esmee Bellalta, associate professor of architecture at Notre Dame and a landscape architect who has practiced in Chile and England. Bellalta, in her talk last Thursday on ''The Creation of Place" at the symposium on Landscape Art at the University Art Gallery, mentioned several symbolic ges­tures, evident in the early ideals and architectural concepts of Sorin, but now lost or forgotten through the decades. 
We need to incorporate more fountains or water points on campus," she stressed. 
tablished and well developed in the formation of the major central quadrangle and the southern quadrangle. Superim­posed over this plan was a network of paths and landscaping, completing the village scenario and preserving some of the basic intentions of Sorin. 
Absent from these considerations and further building construction, were social spaces-intimate and secure places of rest upon angular axes of movement. Essential to any planning concept, these spaces serve as tensional relief and change of scale, as well as nodes for social communi­cation. 
-TheRotteroam------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Ph.llharmOni·C . 
The Romantic sentiment, manifested in art, music, literature, and architecture, is
ARomantic Experience concerned with emotion, once restrained by reason, but now exhibited within the 
Beyond the Age ot Keason, a stage of rich and intense new forms of the period. 
peace and contentment combined with an energetic intellectual wonder, had been removed for another stage of conflict and euphoric retreat. The phsyical, economic, political and industrial revolutions which had emerged society into a universal awareness, had plunged the individual into romantic escape. It was an age when man had two personalities: he who struggled for survival and he who endeavored for 
exhilaration. 
Bliss was it in that dawn to be alive But to be young was very heaven. --William Wordsworth 
The essence of Romanticism is an evasion from humanitarian essentials. While the sophisticated gentleman was fleeing for the country, the innoble masses were stuffing the cities. The search of the gentleman was not merely for space, and the search of the worker went beyond housing and employmetlt. The Romantic Age was an age of introverted thinking, as compared to the extroverted thinking of the Age of Reason. What are man's feelings, how can he understand his own dreams and fantasies, where is the search for happiness and where will it end, were the questions of the time. 
The Romantic artists were certainly not preoccupied with the mundance. Their's was an energetic spirit which sought to extract the comfort of the nobleman, the r~pture of the learned and the mirth and 
• light-heartedness of the courtly individual, from a single fusion of ease and excite­ment. 
In music, new techniques of chord struc­. d . · 
ture, progresswn, an tona1tty, new mstru­
ments and new musical forms, such as the 
ballade, the concert overtu•. the arabes­
que, the waltz, and the fantasy, were 
introduced. 

Hector Berlioz (lSOJ-69) was perhaps 
f h · . . . f
-one o t e most tmagmattve mnovators o 
his period. He is a classical Byronic 
h h h
character. T ose experiences w ic most 
h · 
mig t regard as norma1, arose mtense excitement within him. When he first heard Beethoven, he was so emotionally hyperactive that he could not sleep. According to one contemporary: "A large part of Berlioz's charm consists in his earnest aspirations to achieve the glamour of desperate wickedness against the back­
ground of his inveterate and easily shockable respectability.'' 
He wanted to be a Romantic. In his letters to his friends he aligned himself with an avant-garde rebellion, and dispos­ed himself intermittently between real and imagined states of mind. He was known as a "forgivably imaginative liar" to his compatriots. 
Movement within any environment is distinguished as a series of diverse scale relationships-most clearly noticable in medieval· urban planning with its dramatic interrelations between narrow street and open plaza. Indefinite or over-scaled spaces tend to distract, annoy or discom­fort the individual who utilizes the space. Large open spaces in medieval planning techniques, inevitably have human scale components within the spaces, which are identifiable and recognizable. 
Equal in importance, are sociological factors implied in spatial relationships. The gestaldt of the medieval space is clearly conceived as a place of interaction, movement, and warmth-a multi-percep­tional stimulus of participatory senses. Within the spaces between the environ­ments of man-the buildings and the landscape, the village or the city ignites. Exterior spaces are the living rooms of the 
-community. As the family congregates 
around the fire or upon a furniture sitting, the community or village meets at the focal points of the exterior landscape. 
The "Huddle Puddle" space next to LaFortune Center, is' an important avenue to the creation of "place" at Notre Dame, but lacked sufficient design quality to really meet the needs of the University community. 
Othe~ areas could be improved by the creation of social spaces. An area immediately in front of both dining halls would serve as a place to talk and relax after meals. In front of the South Dining Hall, this is more apparent since such a space would encourage student and faculty inter-communication beyond the classroom situation, a1s many faculty dine at noontime in that building. 
These <:oncerns are currently being investigated by a group of six architectural students, who are studying and analyzing social, psychological and physical aspect of the campus design with the intentions of creating a "Campus Plan." Prof. Bellalta is directing the students, who recently submitted some of their ideas of Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, Executive Vice-Presi­dent of the University. jJ met with the students at their workroom in the base­ment of the Architecture building, and viewed a series of drawings prepared by the students. 
Representatives from Ellerbe Assoc., an architectural-engineering firm from Minn­eapolis which has done much of the university's recent architecture, including the ACC, the Memorial Library, the high 
Berlioz's "Symphonic Fantastique" re­minds us of all the extreme emotional intensity. stylistic innovation. and the beauty and magnificent composure of Romantic creativity. It can simultaneously transcend the feelings of the listener into landscape and euphoric oblivion; it subdi­
vides the imagined state into the real and unreal. The use of the leitmotif, a recurring theme, introduced in symphonic form with this composition, is at times, hypnotic and seductive. 
"Symphonic Fantastique" is one of the most remarkable pieces of music ever written. It is provocative, dramatic, dream­inducing, conscious-disturbing and emo­
tionally inspiring. The prolific Rotterdam Philharmonic Symphony performed the composition in concert Monday night at Saint Mary's College. Their interpretation of Berlioz was superb. The last ten minutes of the concert lifted me (almost physically) from a rather comfortable, but somber 
state of mind. It was really a genuine Romantic experience-whose energy was well endowed with invitations and inova­tions to a euphoria known as Romanticism. 
The symphony played under the direc­tion of RoelefVan Dristen, conductor of the Dutch National Youth Orchestra, who was filling in for the ill Edo de Waart the popular and acclaimed leader of the symphony. Their playing drew much praise and appreciation from the over­zealous or under-educated audience, who applauded after each break in the music. The Rotterdam group also performed another popular Romantic piece, Schu­mann's Overture Scherzo and Finale, and Glazunov's "Violin Concerto," a curious composition from the early part of this century. 
Leo C. Hansen 
rise dorms, the Morris Inn, O'Shaughnes­
sey Hall. the modern residential dorms, 
and the new Engineering building addition 
in progress, also attended the meeting and 
assisted with the presentation. Ellerbe flew 
down from Minneapolis to help administer 
the presentation, which his firm is hand­
ling. 
"That Fr. Joyce came to the Architec­ture building to view the students' work is a sign that the administration is concerned with the work on the Master Plan, which is important to us all," Bellalta said after the meeting. 
"The promotion offaculty-student inter­action, improvements of campus social life, and recognition of spiritual and traditional­ly historical planning influences to guide our directives for the future--these were some of our primary objectives and considerations," added Dominic Carbone, one of the students working on the project. 
Bellalta stresses the need for social places. "The area immediately outside the South Dining Hall," she notes, "is like the exit of a metro station and not conducive to lingering conversations after mealtime. With the design of several small scale places on campus, we could relate a need to our special symbolism and enhance the quality of life which is what I suppose to be our common purpose when we consider the landscape." 

Qpeta singerPeter Pears appears with 
the South ·· Bend Symphony · Qrchestra Saturday night Nov. 12, performing Brit­ten's Serenade for Tenor and French Horn." Following the performance there will be.an.after Concert reception-party at Century Cep.ter, with strolling violinist Harold Kottlowski. 

Thursday, November 10, 19n the observer 
ATouch of the Blues 
Bring a blanket and a friend this weekend to the Stepan Center as the Midwest Blues Festiual rolls onto the ND campus 
.. by Joan Luttmer 
"That damned old blues look like it going to be here forever.'' Sonny Terry, blues harmonica player. 
It is basic emotion, that is why the blues stay. That essential blues energy begat rock 'n' roll and much of jazz. Songs like "Mannish Boy," "Hesitating Blues," and "I Feel Like Goin' Home" say directly what is soulful and sorrowful. 
The Midwest Blues Festival should keep Notre Dame's Stepan Center wailing this weekend. Friday and Saturday, November 11 and 12, the finest in blues ignites the Stepan stage. Music starts at 7:30 and usually continues until the wee hours. Each night offers balanced program of artists that mixes Blues leger:ds with emerging talents from the Midw~:st. Of course the jam possibilities are limitless. So bring a blanket and liquid friends and expect impromtu blues in addition to the fine individual performances. Along with the blanket and friends bring $7 for a two night festival pass. Single night admissions are as the voice of Aunt Jemima for the Quaker S4 and SS for Friday and Saturday night Oats Company. She retired from that respectively. Tickets are sold at the door. advertising stint in 1966 and resumed her 
The Blues Festival is a weekend of singing career. Edith Wilson, with her fine informal enjoyment. The audience can lay feminine vocals and Little Brother Mont­back and enjoy Edith Wilson, Little Brother gomery, with classic blues piano, personify Montgomery, the duo of Sonny Terry and the blues caberet duo. Montgomery, one 
Brownie McGhee, and Son Seals on Friday of the last turpentine camp pianists, can night. Saturday features Big Joe Duskin, and does play southern barrelhouse, and Mighty Joe Young, and Muddy Waters. traditional jazz. 
Friday night opens with Edith WUson, a Next on the Friday night roster are legend in blues evolution. Her career Sonny Terry and Brownie McGhee. They started in vaudeville and films. In radio have been playing their special blend of drama she played Kingfish's mother on folk blues longer than most of us have been "Amos and Andy." That led to her choice alive. Listen for the intense harmony of Sonny's harmonica and Brownie's guitar on songs like "Sonny's Squall" and the blues traditional "Muddy Water." Woody Guthrie appreciated their talent and in­cluded Sonny in his concerts. History continued the honor when Arlo Guthrie backed Sonny and Brownie on some of their 45 albums. Their friendship is as strong as their music so expect a tight performance. . 


The Son Seals Blues Band rounds out 
Friday night. Son could be heir apparent to 
Muddy Waters. He leads this generation of 
blues artist and is building quite a 
following in the midwest. His Chicago­
tinged blues always draw_well at Vegetable 
Buddies. It could be the force of his wailing 
"On My Knees" and "I Believe" that 
keeps the audiences returning. Son Seals 
might bring Alberto Gianquinto to add a 
little spark to his band. Gianquinto played 
with Santana and composed Incident at 
Nashabor. This year marks the third year 
that Son Seals has performed at the 
Midwest Blues Festival. Those appear­
ances have marked and abetted the 
growing regard for the Seal's music. So 
the Friday night set will close with the 
burning guitar of Son Seals, and a preview 
of blues possibilities. 
Big Joe Duskin takes the stage on 
Saturday night. He is an unrecorded but 
very respected blues piano player from 
Cincinnati. If you have wandered through 
that Queen City you are familiar with the 
Clifton area bars. Big Joe Duskin fills the 
Friday night spot at the Silver Dollar 
Saloon in Clifton. Duskin is due for 
recording contract and wider recognition. 
So expect his big bass voice and boogie­
woogie piano to prime the Saturday night 
blues artists and audience. 
Mighty Joe Young continues the evening 
with a blues guitar that has excited soul, rythymn 'n' blues, and pure raw-edged blues fans. He leads his band at club and concert dates, and is active in the studio. Songs like "As the Years Go Passing By" ·and "Honky Tonk" will have Mighty .Joe stretching the strings on his guitar. With the blues giant, Muddy Waters, following him you can expect Mighty Joe to perform 
some driving music. 
After such a strong show Muddy Waters 
might feel obliged to show he is the 
"Bossman" of dirty blues, down home 
blues, funky blues, and straight blues. You 
could even make a case for "Bossman" of 
rock 'n' roll. The Rolling Stones took their 
name from one of his early songs. His 
works, "Mojo" and "Mannish BOy" ha-ve influenced the last twenty years of rock. On his latest album, Hard Again, Muddy was backed by Johnny Winter, who added whining guitar and appropriate moans. Winter's Nothln' bot the Blues, released earlier this year outlines the still strong ties that rock has to blues. 
Muddy Waters not only commands deference from musicians but from women he doesn't even have to ask. His feminine admirers were numerous in his youth and today his confident, knowing blues reflect that appeal. 
If you saw Muddy Waters as the Santana warm-up in 1974 you'll see a different more vibrant Muddy at the Blues Festival. The ACC crowd didn't offer the emotional response that characterizes good blues. An enthused Stepan crowd should encourage the "Bossman" to squeeze those guitar strings. Muddy Waters is the acknowledg­ed and acclaimed king of blues, and if you leave Stepan Center anything but totally thrilled you had better go back to top 40. 
The Midwest Blues Festival has always been a gathering of the faithful. The .audience excitement prompted screams of 
, "I'm back again, I love it here. I love you, 
' Notre Dame." from Hound Dog Taylor in 1970. The faithful have included some judicious planners and friends in the music world. Perry Aberle, a former Notre Dame student saw the favorable reaction to a 1970 mini blues festival. That festival was sponsored by the Cultural Arts Commis­sion also. In 1970 Aberli capitalized on the cancellation of the Ann Arbor Blues Festival and held the first Midwest Blues Festival. It .featured Fred McDowall, Carey Bell, Eddie Taylor, Homesick James, Shirley Griffith and Little Brother Montgomery. With Otis Rush, Muddy Waters, and the duo of Buddy Guy and Junior Wells the 1971 Festival featured the three top blues artists available that year. Succeeding festivals have rivaled that roster with the artists like Sunnyland Slim, Fenton -q_obinson, Blind John Davis, and Albert lOng. Bob Kissell inherited the Festival's management in 1976. To him there should go some early concratula­tions. With the help of Alligator Records agent Bruce Iglauer, Bob kept the tradition of a vibrant Blues festival. 
Finally you might ask "Whats-with-all­these-white-kids-diggin-the-blues?" It could be the best-ever performances that will be seen at the Midwest Blues Festival. It could be the easy informal crowd. It could be you've had a touch of the blues yotirself. • 
----------------------------------~----------------~--~--------~-------~-­

.' 

-
~-­

Yes. You can be good at {l!Ssing tests that are meaningless to you. You can be good at selling encyclopedias that you know are inferior Ultimately, you can even be good at a profession that you don't really believe in. You can be good. But for some people, being good just isn't good enough. 
For the people who brew Busch beer. it isn't good enough. That's why, at Anheuser--Busch, we persist in brewing Busch beer just one way-the natural way. 
We frankly believe that's the best way to brew beet And when you believe in what you're doing, you just naturally do it better. 
Try a Busch. We believe you'll agree. 
BUSCH. 
When you believe in what you're doing, you just naturally do it better. 
-
AnheUSeJ·Buach, Inc., Sl LOUil, Mo 



Thursday, November 10, 197_7____..,th......,e._o__.busE..:!eE.!rv~e~r!..___ _:9~ 
ACTION to interview for VISTA and Peace Corps 
by Laurie Lee Foss 

ACTION, the Federal volunteer agency, will interview candidates for Volunteers in Service to Amer­ica (VISTA) and the Peace Corps on Tuesday through Thursday, Nov. 15-17 at the Placement Center and the Library Concourse. Recruiters will be available from 9 am to 4:30 pm to answer any questions concer­ning these agencies. 
ACTION heads several citizens service programs. but VISTA and 
need posters in a hurry? 

I

• • !
•nsly·pr•nls 
the wiz of the printin& biz! 

100 -11 x 1 7 posters Only $1000
l 203 N. Main SoBend 289-6977
' 
the Peace Corps remain its two most popular operations. Vista volunteers serve in a United States community, while those serving in the Peace Corps work overseas. 
Requirements for those wishing to join VISTA include being 18 years of age or older, being a U.S. citizen or permanent resident and meeting minimum medical stand­ards. VISTA does not require that its volunteers have a college deg­ree. It is recommended, however that those in college finish their 
Freshmen Council officers chosen 
The Freshman Advisory Council met last night in Flanner Pent­house to elect officers and begin plans for this year's activities. Officers chosen by the group were Rosemary Abowd, chairperson, Indira Biswas, secretary, and Joe Babington, treasurer. 
A committee was formed to draw up a petition seeking permission for the freshmen to have cars on campus. There was also a discus­sion of ideas for a freshman activity during the first semester. 
The Council also thought to make plans for a freshman formal next 
Tonite: Blues Festival Preview 8:30-1 0:30 pm Friday Jeannie Ritter 9:30-11 :30pm Saturday 9-11 pm Joe Bauer 
no admission charge 
and Sail y Dentz 
basement of Iafortune 
Free .University 
Would you like to teach your 
favorite hobby, interest, etc.? 
this spring semester? 
Give us a call at 1158 
education before pursuing full-time 
volunteer service. 
In order to qualify for the Peace Corps, an applicant must be a U.S. citizen, must meet medical and legal criteria and must be 18 years of age, although very few appli­cants under 20 have the skills and experience necessary to qualify. Requested for most Peace Corps volunteer jobs are those who have finished their college education or have several years of experience in their sp:~iality. 
Recrmttng officials say they are mainly interested in people with backgrounds in health services, education, agriculture, social work, business, mechanics and engineer­ing. 
Compensation for service in both of these agencies includes· a month­ly allowance for food, lodging and incidentals, medical care, and op­tional life insurance at a minimum rate. A $50 per month stipend is payable at completion of service in VISTA, with a readjustment allow­ance of $125 per month paid upon 
completion of a two-year assign­ment with the Peace Corps. 
Training for VISTA volunteers takes place in one of ten regional centers and on the project site. Training programs start in winter, summer and fall. 
Assignments will be based on preference, skills and experience and specific n.eeds in specific areas. 
Placement is determined at the end of the training period. 
Peace Corps volunteers are train­ed for 12-14 weeks in the U.S. and/or host country. Much of the emphasis of this training is on language and cultural studies. 
There are openings for 1000 VISTA volunteers and 656 Peace Corps workers this year. 

Stepan Center 
Tickets: Fri. $4 ALL TIX SOLD AT DOOR Sat. $5 Both nights $7 
Preview of Blues Festival toni ht at Nazz 8:30 

Midwest Blues 
Fri Nov. 11 7:30pm Sat. Nov. 12 
Edith Wilson 
Little Brother 
Montgomery 
Sonny Terry 
Brownie McGhee Son Seals 
Big Joe Duskin Mighty Joe Young 
Muddy Waters 

. a more workable number. The
• ••• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • e: names of those 20 nominees that 
• • • survived the-cut were published in . 
• .last Monday's Observer. 
• 

"The list which appeared," said • • Naquin, "was, by no means, final. • • We wanted any member of the 
senior class who was dissatisfied 
•
• with the Committee's decision to • • have the opportunity to speak out'' • • she continued. "That is why the · 
forum was held, and the pro­
cedures for reconsideration of a • • candidate were published along­• • side the list." 
Naquin emphasized that she is . totally satisfied with the Com­
• Special 10% Discount e mittee's performance so far. "We 
•. On All Merchandise To Notre Dame ·.~~i~s;ho!~~~:::::P~~P~·:e~ 
good job of cutting it down to a list
=
e & Saint Mary. 's Students. 
•  ••••••  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  •  ••  
·  
- 

ND SMC Senior Class Senior Class 
7 
Happy Hour at Senior Bar Friday 3-7 pm 1/2 price mixed drinks 25' drafts 
Bring your senior trip pictures 

Twenty names form final Fellows list 
by Pat Dermody Chairman Elizabeth Naquin, "their 
supporters had valid arguments. 
Indiana State Senator Richard Furthermore, they followed the 
Lugar, and Atlanta businessman proper format and attended the 
Ted Turner are now eligible to be forum in order to have their 
elected Senior Class Fellow of the candidates reconsidered." 
Class of 1978. At a forum held in Both Lugar and Turner were 
the LaFortune Auditorium last among the original 144 nominees. 
night, a majority of the Senior They were eliminated from conten­
Class Fellow Committee voted to tion last Sunday night by the Senior 
recognize these two nominees be-Class Fellow Committee in their 
cause, according to Committee attempt to reduce the candidates to 
of20 diverse people." Naquin also said s~e is glad that people came 
forth m support of Lugar and Turner. "It is only another display of enthusiasm as far as I am concerned. I only hope it continues through the final elections," she concluded. 
The final elections for Senior Class Fellow will be held next Wednesday and Thursday Nov. 16 and 17. Those candidates who remain eligible for the award are: ALAN ALDA BILL BRADLEY ART BUCHWALD BILL COSBY KATHERINE GRAHAM 
ALEX HALEY 
BOB HOPE HUBERT HUMPHREY BARBARA JORDAN JERRY LEWIS RICHARD LUGAR STEVE MARTIN RALPH NADER CARL SAGAN 
O.J. SIMPSON BRUCE SPRINGSTEEN SYLVESTER STALLONE TED TURNER KURT VONNEGUT JOHN WAYNE 
· HENRY WINKLER 
ANDREW YOUNG 
Brief personality profiles of each of these candidates will appear in next week's Observer. The elec­tion procedures and location of voting boxes will also be announ­ced at that time. , . 
American botanists return from USSR tour 
by Lon Severino 

Dr. Theodore Crovello, chairman of the Biology Department return­ed to Notre Dame recently after a six week trip to the U.S.S.R. 
Crovello and two other American botanists spent Aug. 25 through Oct. 10 in the Soviet Union as part of an exchange program sponsored by the U.S. Dept. of Interior and the Soviet Ministry of Agriculture. The objective of the program was a mutual study of the environment by a team of U.S. and Russian botanists. 
Crovello served as project leader for the scientists who spent five days in Moscow and the remaining time on botanical expeditions in central Asian Russia. He described this area as a ''semi-desert with 8-10,000 foot mountains and a Medit~ranean type climate." 
The trip produced many note­worthy accomplishments according to Crovello. The seeds of over 350 diverse plant species, many of which have never been grown in the U.S. were brought back. 
These seeds will be distributed around the country and will be raised here in the U.S. Many preserved plant specimens were also acquired and brought back for study. 
The group also accomplished a great deal in the field of floro­genetics, which is a study of the flora in a region and its origins. "The central plains were ideal for this type of work since they are one of the centers of Russian flora," said Crovello. 
this friday and every friday 5 :15 mass & supper 
c:JJI 
l:.errtp•l..,
'""h.. try 

The Americans learned a great deal about the Soviets' new tech­niques in the field of botany. Dr. Crovello mentioned the existence of vast nature preserves of up to 50,000 acres in areas which have been overgrazed by wildlife. 
No tourism, fishing, or hunting is permitted and only scientists are. allowed access to these preserves in order to study nature. Crovello called these preserves "ideal spots" for the study of environ­mental biology. 
In addition to the scientific benefits, the American scientists learned a great deal about the people of Russia. "The people were very much concerned about friendship and peace in the world,'' said Crovello. "I came away with a deeper feeling that there really is a family of men in the basic sense," he added. 
The Notre Dame professor felt that the trip's significance was "learning so we can understand." "The more we learn, the less fear we have, and the more we can learn about ourselves," said Crovello. 
As a result of the trip, Crovello has entered into research with two Soviet botanists and plans on returning to Leningrad in July for another visit. 
WSND adds Free Classifieds program 
by Mark Rust The only thing to keep in mind when calling in a classified, said
In keeping with their committ­Thomas, is to "keep it as concise asment to provide service to students possible but say what you want to
through special programming, 
say. We see it as just one moreWSNO has added a new program way we can be of service to thecalled Free Classifieds. It will be students."
aired four times a day, five days a "Two years ago we had noweek and as its title implies, it is a special programming,'' Thomasservice that is free of charge. 
continued. "Now we have eightAccording to Steve Thomas, different shows for every interestprogramming director at WSND, ranging from music to talk to any student at any time of the day cultural programs. We feel that can dial the station (6400) and Free Classifieds will add anothersubmit their personals, wanteds, dimension ot our program andlost and founds, for sales, or any bring us closer to our goal of message that they need communi­service to the students."
cated. The on-duty disc jockey will Advertising and promotion of the then air their classifieds at 7:30am, new programs, whcih started Mon­12:30 p.m., 4:30 p.m. and 7:30 
day, has been slow due to the recent break-in at the station. 
Among the items stolen was a 
professional two trac reel-to-reel 
which blends music and voice that 
is used for such shows as Fr. Bill 
Toohey's "Thought You'd Never 
Ask." Thomas said the station had 
planned to use it in the format of 
the Free Classifieds. blending 
back,ground music in. 
"Right now we're paralyzed," he said. "The (stealing) incident is under investigation by the County Police and they have the program­ming room locked up until finger­prints are taken. Until then we are 
very limited in what we can do. 
Once we can use the room again, 
we'll come up with a substitute and 
continue with the format as 
planned. As for right now we are 
just reading the classifieds on the ,air." 
IUSB programs to be aired 

Indiana University at South Bend's Division of Public and Environmental Affairs has produc­ed a series of television programs on women and their health. 
Two programs a week, on Mon­

day and Wednesday evenings at 7 
p.m. will appear on Channel 34. The schedule is: Nov. 14, Talking to Your Pediatrician; Nov. 16, Talking to Your Gynecologist; Nov. 
21. Talking to Your Child About Sex; Nov. 23. Talking to Your Child About Health; Nov. 28, Health Careers for Women; Nov. 30. Female Doctors; Dec. 5, Meno­pause; and Dec. 7, Body Main­tenance. 
Project Coordinator Gail Dowty !>aid that she hopes Notre Dame and St. Mary's students will watch the series and become more aware of the issues it raises. 
open Fri. & Sat. till 
Midni(Jht 
Pabst 
case case 


$§79
Strohs 
~ case 
alstaff S269 
vo c I(d' 
LIQUOR 
~0 R \.-Q 
Old Chicago 
$149 
6 packs 


12 pack (bottles) Asti Spumanti 
Blatz S269 ss49 5th 
5333
Mateus

12 pack th
5 

Old Style1~~~ks2ag 
Strohs 16oz case Rum$498 
qt

$687 ScotchS§39
Miscellaneous 
. qt
MANY MORE TO CHOOSE FROM! 
Cases of Beer 
Vodka$399
AVAILABLE AT THE BOOKSTORE 
sass qt Gin $419
Hamms 

Thursday, November 10, 1977 the observer 11 
fun," commented MacKinnon, "as well as a pre-season glimpse of the 77-78 Notre Dame basketball team. We'd like to especially thank 
Digger Phelps for all of his help," she concluded. 
Strategy 
========================================================================::=============================================================================================================================================================================================================;:========================;:;================================;Cont' d
now when it is most needed as both Steve Orsini (neck) and Dave Mitchell games played so far and the three runaway contests the Irish have played 
Blueline Club
(shoulder) are recovering from injuries incurred last Saturday. recently. Defensively, Clemson boasts a veteran line-up that ranks fifth in scoring Clemson is bowl-material. In fact they are listed along with Notre holds luncheon defense having allowed but nine points per game. The Tigers play the Dame, Michigan or Ohio State, Pitt and Penn State as possible opponents 
The Blueline Club will hold afamiliar S-2 defense with small but agile defensive ends. Jonathon Brooks for the Big Eight Champion by the Orange Bowl selection committee. 
luncheon at the University Club atand Mark Heniford are the men at the ends of the defensive line and they Bowl bids will be issued a week from Saturday and Clemson could waltz 12 p.m. tomorrow. Guest speakers 
weigh but 212 and 199 respectively. their way into the big time with a "we're for real" victory over the Irish. 
will be Jack Lloyd, Lefty Smith andIn the defensive backfield the Tigers don't have a man over 190 pounds Notre Dame, too, is bowl material and they can solidify their contention Wisconsin Coach Bob Johnson.
but they get the job done. As the backbone of the stingy Clemson for a showdown with Texas in the Cotton Bowl with a commanding victory The luncheon is open to the public
defense, they have allowed opponents to complete just 37% of their on Saturday. The Irish have played their way back into the major bowl passes--second in the nation. In allowing just 88.4 yards per game picture, into the run for the title and haven't relied on upsets of the other and students are more than wei­through the air the Clemson defense ranks sixth nationally in that contenders to advance. Clemson represents the last formidable opponent r:ciomijei.·!!.iiiiiiiiiii~ department. for the Irish before the bowl bids. II 
Specialists: Dave Reeve has been having his troubles lately but the Clemson will be out to make their season Saturday, the Irish have the senior still moves closer and closer to attaining every kick-scoring mark in people however, to make sure that their season will continue until next the record book with every sweep of his leg. Reeve ·is ninth-ranked year. nationally connecting on 1.5 field goals per game. Joe Restic set the Notre Dame career mark for punts last Saturday and has improved his average 
Notre Dame to play charity 
with every outing since suffering a. knee injury at Purdue. Obed Ariri is the Clemson placekicker and it was he who missed a crucial extra point that allowed North Carolina the opportunity to kick the 
inter-squad game
tying field goal last week. David Sims punts for the Tigers and carries a 
39.9 yard average into the game. The annual Notre Dame Varsity they work with. Intangibles: The South is the biggest concern for the Irish. They've Inter-squad Charity Basketball ''At 7:30 the McDonald charac­
been there once before this year and the outcome was less thandesireable. Game is scheduled for 8 p.m. this ters will perform and be available Mississippi Memorial stadium was a snakepit to play in but the fans and Sunday in the ACC. to sign autographs," said Kim the press associated with the Tigers home field respectfully refer to it as The game is sponsired by MacKinnon, a captain for the "Death Valley". The Irish have just played three games in a row on the McDonald's restaurants, and the WSHP. Admission is $1 for adults field of friendly Notre Dame Stadium. The change in atmosphere will proceeds will be split between the and SO cents for students. Tutors surely have some effect, how much remains to be seen. Notre Dame-St. Mary's Neighbor-with the NSHP will be selling 
Another change Coach Devine's gridders must face will be that of hood Study Help Program (NSHP) tickets for the game at the North, weather. Temperatures have been fairly "high" for the often and the Special Olympics. The South, and Saint Mary's dining tempermental South Bend weather so the change will not be as dramatic public is invited to attend the game halls this Thursday and Friday, and as it could have been. However, if Devine has to go to his bench to spell and the tutors of the NSHP are tickets are also available at the his starters this time he'll find experienced people thanks to the eight encouraged to bring the children ACC. "The event is always a lot of 
Needed: 2 GA Air Force tickets. Joan Found: Young black male cat near Law SHA, ~appy 8th (or 1s 1t the 10th?) I love \I~---------------------------------------~~--~•t• d Ad School and bus shelter. Call8666 for info. you. M1ck
1280·I assI Ie s Need--;:;;;-e-;-Philadelphia a;.;t;b"r;k -----WANTEil______ Thlrd--f-loo_r_W_a-lsh-congratulatas Ann I Can leave after classes on Monday, Nov: "Kegger" Keenan McCarthy!! The first 
C I 

21. Will share expenses. Denny 8906. Need ride to Purdue this weekend. Call one to gall I
I NOTICES Need ride to Des Moines, Iowa or vicinity -----------------4521. --------------~--I for Thanksgiving. Please call Cindy Needed: Student or GA tickets Air Force. --------------Ray, Karen, and Mary, Blow it out your
I 
4-5177. Call Jan 4-4184. Need tix for Clemson game. Call collect bunghole. FYB I 
"We're OK-You're OK" Gay Commu-----------------312-436-0352 or 312-436-0352. Ask for ---------------­I nity at NO guide to ND-SB -$1.00 N d 3 GA A' F Len Karen, Thanks for a great time Saturday
Pa_nd_or_a·s_o_r_Bo_x2_06_,_No_______ ------------------J;e6BB6. lr orce tickets. Call Mary _ _:_______________ night. We'll have to do It again soon. 1 l-~;:g~GA Air Force tickets. Call Brian __________________ Addressers wanted Immediately! Work at You'll love strap throat (this time I won't Gay Community of ND lnfolina-Frlllo Sat -~-·-------------Need 4 GA Air Force tickets. Call Lisa home--no experience necessary-excel-hit you!) Jim I
I 
-10-12 p.m. 8870 6886. lent pay. Write American Service, 8350 ---------------­
----------------Need 2 GA Air Force tix. Cindy 8037. p k L S 't 269 D II T~ 75231 Ms. E., Brett will never return to I
1 MORRISSEY Loan Fund --------------------------------_!~_~:_~~-·_!~____:_ Scarlett. Quit dreaming. L • 
I Student loans. $20-150. 1 day wait. 1 Help-naad ride to Cleveland this Friday. Need riders to Des Moines area for -----------------1 percent interest. Due in 30 days. La For-Susan 4-4292. FOR SALE Thanksg1·v1·ng Call Sara 4-4008 after 6 Dapper Dan, Happy 22nd, we wanted to I ~~~~~_:_n~~!_2~~-~~5_.___ Beautiful apartment for rent, from Jan-p.m. ·PERSONALS give you Queen Victoria for your first, but 1
Help! Need 2, 4or 6 GA Air Force tix for will a scullery maid do, or how about an 
· h' t · t t fam1·1y Call J1'm 6710 after 8 uary until July, 1 bedroom, nice lifing
nyone WIS mg o reg1s er o vote in · · apricot bandy sour. OK I'll be seeing you. ....._.
lA 
1
Indiana's May election should call Moat ----------------room, pool. Completely furnished, fully Attention: 1011 Flannar Invites anyone ---------------• 4__4_00_1._______________ Need two GA tickets for Air Force. Call carpeted, air conditioned. $199 monthly who has any problems to send us a latter I
Mark 1067. plus utilities. Call 272-9805. (Daar Abby?)through on-campus mall. ATTENTION SMC CHICKS: Handsome, ------------------------------We will respond through the personalsIll bright, and personable future doctor 
IInterested In updating your understand-USC-UCLA sportswear for sale. Come & ---------------~--· · needs a date to the Grace Formal. Call 1 
ing of the Christian faith and Catholic Need ride to Jersey can leave Nov. 21. b A k M. Bernie at 1802 to apply.
326 M 
• tradition? Consicering the possibility of Robart 1145. ~~~--~~-~r Kevin~~-Courage lias In the spoken word, not the ---------------I becoming a Catholic? For more informa-Ne-;d-;;-,;:;~--Force tix.8;;th"272=234Q.-Camaro _ 1974_ Air conditioning. Red. written word. L Greg, That's discrimination. Let NO girls tion, drop by the Campus Ministry offices 24,000 ml'les. Showroom condl.tl·on. 277_ have a stab at Bernia too. I
• in the Memorial Library or in Badin Hall, ----------------­or call 6536 or 3820. Need ride to Long Island for Thanksgiv-4056. Boy, even Mom is getting into the 
ing. Will share driving & expenses. Call Personals act. To Ann Schmidt, Happy 21st Birthday!! 1
l 
-----------------s Stereo speakers: -JBL-L16 speakers. Nat-----------------For all the abuse we give you about
8050

EXPERIENCED TYPIST. For more infor-· ue · ural oak finish. 277_ _ buzzards, the Glee Club, molesting your I 
• mation, pleas! call 272-2819. ---------------NCa~dKrida to Cleveland for Thanksgiving. memo board, ate. you know we'll always
---------------------------------4056 athy 1264. 1
a love you!! Signed The Mental Ward
1Attn all Night Editors & Asst. Night Needed: A ride to Cleveland Friday Nov. Classis Ovation guitar with hard shell --------------­Editors: Mandatory maatlng tonight at 11. Willing to share driving and gas Ovation case. Asking $225.00. Must sell. Renee, Your houseowner gave me per-Fl d _..11 d I 
8:30. expense. Maryellen 1362. Call Gene at 1694. mission to call you. What's your phone 1011 annar, 0 you •u nee someone -----------------------------number? 'see you soon. A Senior from to Judge? Need GA or student tix for Air Force. Call '71 Toyota, excellent condition. 30 mpg. Vermont. 1 
• We need a band! Do you have a band? _ 272-3634 after 6 p.m. ------------------Mark, Saturday night and you've got it.
I Ed 3708 
I Need to practice some more or would you -------------------------------Saitn Mary's students: Seats are still Trish 1 like to play for a good causa? The Notre Need 1 GA Air Force ticket. Please call WHY PAY MORE? FLANNER RE-available on the New York area charter Dear "ldea-1•-"­
1Dame-Sat. Mary's Council for the Retard-Kelly:1266. CORDS has all $6.981ist LP's only $4.50. flight; Dec. 22nd and Jan. 16th. Call -1 ad Is looking for a band to play at our --------------All $7.98 list LP's only $5.29. Over 400 Mary Laverty: 4319. If you weren't running around doln91monthly dances. Our November Danca Is Graduate student: Room and board at albums in stock. Phone orders accepted. -----------------Clmpus security's Job, 1111ybe you coul I next Wad., Nov. 16th, and the time Is gracious home for cooking evening meal. FLANNER RECORDS 322 Flanner Phone AAAHOWWW (how's that for a start think of something to write about. Why
1
7:30 tlll10:00 p.m. The Logan kids love Contact C. West. Room 120 Memorial 2741. Hours M-Th 4-5, 6:30-8:00 Sun guys?) The elite of the elusive paddle-don't you write 1 poem about skipping 1 live music, so If you'd be lntarastad in Library. 2-3:30. fish wish to thank all associate members concerts. Illegal Bike Parker. playing for us, please give us a call: ------------------~----------------who purchased T-shirts. Paddlefish happ------------------1
• 
Jeanne Conboy 284-4391 or Art Koebel 2 need ride to Chicago on November 19. hours and other social events. to be The Toad has bean revealed to be... wait 287-7509. Call 6326. FOR RENT scheduled soon. Look for elusive info until tomorrow. Hah! You thought I'd I1 -----------------h p s Wh t' T10 ?? B really do It didn't you?
To all interested student and volunteers·. a ride or Indian-Three bedrooms available on N. Eddy -anyw ere. · · a smy posl n · · --------------I
Need to Cincinnati ---------------­
I this Saturday morning [9:00-11:30 a.m.) apolis on Friday, Nov. l1th. Can leave good location to school. Call 282-1964. Happy 21 st Hairy Greg! You know who Stream Frog, I better turn you back into a promises to baa Sat. Red. that you won't after 11 and will share expenses. John ---------------you are! A princess before I start removing these I 
• want to miss! Coma down to Logan _ APARTMENT FOR RENT ---------------warts. Spud
1380

Canter for the Carnival Rae. and Join In -----------------Fabulous one of a kind townhouse on ALL OBSERVER STAFF MEMBERS who P.S. Pete should stick to grasshoppers, · 
l 
• the fun and festivities. If you are river in Elkhart. Sunken living room, fire-wish to have their pictures In the Dome he doesn't know how to eat Tootsie Rolls. 1lntarastad In helping us sat up for this N d Nd St M , t d t .t k place, swimming pool, sunken red Japan-be at the Observer office It 8 p.m. --------------I 
avant meat Thursda 10th ee -· ary s s u en s m e wor · ese soaking tub dishwasher laundry JJS -this is a second chance personal ­
Us No

• y, v. • Nicola's Rest. 809 N. Michigan Street. ' ' Tuesday Nov. 15. This Includes you, too,
1~:::~:= &:~: ,:r t:aritiJuanN':ia~~~:: Part-time or full-time. Hourly pay. Wait-~~~:~~! ~t~~~~~~~~t.' L~:S~~ngon;~:~ St. Mary's. ~~~\Y~~;~r.go network soon. Anne & I Bring an extra friend with you to the resses, busboys, pizza-makerm dish-to school year. Nothing like it anywhere! cometornsc;;--and-Dance--;;;;;;t;;, 
• 
Carnival Rae. this Sat., Nov. 12, 9:00-washer. Apply in person. Nicola's Res-294-2151. Saturday Nov. 12 LaFortune Ballroom. Night Editors & Asst. Night Editors. I 

•11:30 
a.m. Questions or suggestions feel taurant. LOST &FOUND 8:30-1:00. Prize -2 tickets to Hall and Maatlng tonight, 8:30 It Observer office. I -.rae to call Art Koebal287-7509 or Jaanna TYPISTWANTED: Full-tim-;:;-ty-p-;.; Oates. Donation -$.50. Attendance required. 


l-
co_noo_y_2~_1_._________ display advertising, Monday and Wad-Lost: Hewlett Packard 45 calculator lost Help! Someone hit and ran. Big dan11gas Mary Pat, You're still No. 1 at NO and 1 nasday thru Saturday afternoons and-before break in brown vinyl case. dona to my green and white car. Anyone SMC! Happy 19th. Your Sorin 3rd floor I or evenings. Hourly pay. Experience Reward! Call Andy 8886. having any Information about an accident admirers 1 
1 

;::,p-but not niiCBSSIIry. Apply In parson Lost before break: Blue nylong "St. In B-2parking on Friday Oct. 21• batwaan I
1-5 call Pat 7620 Googie, Muffin doesn't sound like agood
I 
WANTED at: The Penny Saver, 2102 S. Michigan Mary's Track" jacket with "Bob" sewn __' _____·_________ guy to butter up to. Alumni Abusers St., South Bend, 288-1411. on front. Priceless sentimental value. Rob Free kittens to good home. Call evenings I
I 
Need 2 GA or Student Air Force tix. Call --------------8464. 256-0779. . (Doe) Gibbons for Little Miss I 8051. Need $$$? Sell me 5 NO-Air Force GA --------------Paddleflsh
I 
Lost: A pair of brown frame glasses. If S 'I H 14 Q · ·-----­1~~d4GAtix fo~ For;:~~;-~ tickets. Call Jim 3559. found, call Annie, 7852. My eyes will love s~:~r? ~~~: Wo~~-Uleres que var a Looks like someone Is hornlng In on I help call Russ at 8772. you.------------------------------Alumni Mission Annex' territory. L t Thl k nd th th d Terri, Happiest 20th. Celebrate well! The 
I I Need ride to south side area of Chicago, os : s wee 8 on e sou qua · Lost: tan raincoat at Morrissey formal -229 gang.Gold cross and St. Elizabeth Seton medal. bel
Friday, Nov. 11th. Pease call Sue at Sentimental value. Call Trish 4816 if 4-~B~ to roommate. If found please call ----------------If you have any printing, lay out and-or 4-4563. found. ---------------WTDanJSeeberg, I've got my eye on you! management experience and would llka 
part-time, on-campus work call Campus Looking for riders on Nov. 23rCl, heading Lost: A navy blue backpack with 2 ----------------Press 7047, 1-5 Mon-Frl; ask for Bill or south to Atlanta via Louisville, Nashville, Inspected car at reasonable price for notebooks and 2 Accounting books. Happy 21st to a short haired, totally John. This is a paid position. Chattanooga. Call Karen or Bill 616-da~htar to drive to and from school. Please call 7967 if found. No questions corrupted, but still adorable girl, Jean · ----------­
49;:35(17.,'. H:n:..-.-..-~ ...............-........ ..G-.H. f~ID, n2:47a4 Q\lllfling~.-··-........-.-. ask~d·~····~-~·h ............. ._.._.~"\So.•:....~......... ~U{IliiY •• YQ.U[J~rltty.S!OV~~-\'H "'-''' • , ... l.<~rn. ~O..Il.~ 10.Ga,"lP!I~ pre~.·-·· •• 


Irish attempt to qualify for N~CAA Championship Meet 
by Frank LaGrotta Sports Writer 

Notre Dame's cross-country run­ners are in the final stages of their preparation for this Saturday's NCAA District IV qualifier meet. The 10,000 meter race (approxima­tely 61!. miles) will be hosted by the University of Michigan atAnn Ar­bor and, according to Irish Coach Joe Piane, "it's what the entire season is all about.'' 
"We decided back in September that our goal for this season would be to land a team in the NCAA Championship Meet which will be held in Spokane, Washington on November 21. This Saturday is when we have to put it all together, if we're going to achieve that goal." 
Piane is confident in his squad's 
ability to do just that. 

"If we run as well as we've 
shown that we're capable of then 
we have an excellent chance to 
qualify," he points out. Right now 
we're as healthy as we've been all 
season, the kids are looking fore­
ward to a strong race and they feel 
that they can do it.'' . To "do it" the Irish will have to 
defeat some powerful cross-country 
squads which will be running in the 
meet. 

"Well be up against some of the 
top runners in the country includ­
ing Billy Donokowski of Michigan, 
Jim Stintzi of Wisco(lsin and Steve 
Crane of Ohio State. These 
runners placed 1-2-3 respectively in the Big Ten. We can also expect stron~ finishes from Wisconsin, Illinois, Bowling Green and Cleve­land State." 
The Irish are permitt<ed to enter seven runners in the. qualifying race. Senior co-captain Dan Hor­gan and juniors Joe Strohman, Steve Welch and co-captain Dennis VanderKraats. will be representing Notre Dame as well as freshmen Chuck Aragon, Charlie Fox and Pat Sullivan. 
We learned our lesson at the Central Collegiate Championship Meet two weeks ago," Piane goes on. "We have to have good grouping and we have to get our runners right to the fron1t so that we can control the race. If we do this, then I know we can place our top five guys in the top 35 finishers which is what we have to do to qualify." 
Piane's confidence is bolstered by the fine season Jtis harriers racked up. Showing a fine 3-1 record in dual meet performance, the high point of the season came on October 7 when the Irish grabbed fourth place among major­college competition in the Notre Dame Invitational. Piane's squad also chalked up a second-place finish in the Indiana State Champ­ionship Meet behind to a strong Indiana team. 
"Overall the season has been successful," admits Pian e. "We ran well, in spite of the injuries which plagued the team all season. I think the performance of Dennis VanderKraats was outstanding throughout the season and I was extremely pleased with the leader­ship that he and co-captain Dan Horgan provided the team." 
"I was also very happy with the performances of our freshmen, Chuck Aragon, Charlie Fox, Mike Maney and Pat Sullivan. They performed brilliantly and were a major factor in our success." 
Notre Dame has spent the last I 0 days preparing for the qualifier meet and Piane's runners are chomping at the bite. 
"We're healthy; we're prepared; and we're ready," assures Piane. "We've proven we can run with any squad in the country. It will take a super effort, but we believe we are capable." 

NO to emphasize team play 
by Tim Bourret finished the season with a .568 
Sports Writer percentage, the second consecutive 
year he has led the team in field 
From 1969-76 Notre Dame bas-goal accuracy. 
ketball practiced the star system. Dave Batton complements Flow-
In the first three years of this ers perfectly. Unlike his blond 
period 75 percent of the offensive teammate, Batton scores mostly 
plays were devised to open Austin from the outside. The two-time 
Carr for his very accurate 15-20 foot Bookstore Basketball MVP hit .537 
jumpshot. Between 1973 and 1976 from the field last year with the 
Adrian Dantley dominated the majority of his scores coming from 
Notre Dame basketball scene as the the perimeter of the key. He 
Irish utilized the "A.D. Blue" demonstrated his unique shooting 
offense. touch in a scrimmage a few weeks 
But last year the Irish went to a ago when he hit 11 of 15 field goal 
balanced attack. Five players attempts and scored a game high 
averaged in double figures in 24 p\)ints. 
1976-77 and a new player was Notre Dame has paced the nation 
leading the scoring every night. in rebounding the past two sea-
Notre Dame fans can expect more sons. This trend should continue 
of this balance during the 1977-78 with the return of Bill Laimbeer. 
season. With the return of four The 6-11, 250 center was becoming 
starters from last year's 22-7 team, a dominant force two seasons back. 
the return of a 6-11 center and the But due to academic difficulties he 
enrollment of five highly regarded was forced to sit out the final 19 
freshmen, itis easy to see why games of the season. Last year he 
Basketball Weekly has picked the improved his grades at a junior 
Irish second in the nation in its college in his hometown of Toledo 
preseason poll. Ohio. He did not play basketball, 
"I want to play ten or eleven however, and the year and a half people like we did a couple of years layoff has not helped his game. ago," says Digger Phelps, who is But he is rapidly returning to the entering his seventh year at Notre playing shape that he had two Dame. "We have the people to years ago. His major assets, a wear the opposition down.'' superior outlet pass after defensive 
Notre Dame's greatest depth is rebounds and a consistent outside in the frontcourt where Bruce jumpshot, are still sharp. Flowers and Dave Batton return for A major reason the Irish are so their third consecutive season as highly regarded this year is the starting forwards. Flowers was expected contribution of the fresh-called the top defensive player in man class. Four of the freshman the country and named a first team will aide the frontcourt. Kelly All-American by Playboy Maga-Tripucka probably has the most zlne. But Flowers has also gained renowned reputation of the in-notoriety as a fine shooter. The 6-8 coming class. He was a high school Huntington Woods, Michigan na-AII~America his junior and senior tive connected on"22 of his last 30 year, and averaged 36 points a field goal attempts last season and ~arne his final season. But Kelly is 
Tom 

more than just a scorer. On nights his shooting is awry he will contribute with an aggressive de­fense and rebounding. 
Tracy Jackson plays a similar brand of basketball. He is an excellent all-around player, who like Tripucka will see some action in the backcourt as a shooting guard. Jackson is another des­cendant of a long lineage of metropolitan Washington D.C. high school stars that have attend­ed Notre Dame. Last year's Metro Player of the Year will not bull his way for points as Adrian Dantley once did or pop from the outside as Austin Carr. But he has a style that is all his own. He mixes a little of both. 
What do you think whtm you hear about a basketball player who is 6-11 185? How can he possibly survive in the rugged college game? Gilbert Salinas may not power his way for points ala John Shumate but he will make a significant contribution with other assets. Salinas has an unusually and well executed jumpshot. Because of his slight build he is quick and sl.ould be effective in the pressing defense. Remember, everyone doubted Toby Knight's abilities when he first came to Notre Dame. Check the New York Knicks boxscores and you'll sef that everyone was wrong. 
The crowd plea~er of the rookit crop is Orlando Woolritdge, a 6-9 forward, who was a b-2 guard threc years ago. Because of his ex­perience at guard he is an es pecially agile player. His forte i~ offense and he specializes in the dunk shot. Be it a 360, a Kansas City, a tomahawk or a squeak, you name it and he can do it. A cousin C h · h 1 d 

oac D1gger P e p's cagers are rate second in preseason polls. 
of New York K~ick Coach Willis Reed, he is de;tined to be the favorite of the student body. Move over Joe Montana. 
Randy Haefner and Bill Hanzlik complete the forward contingent. Haefne. has been a victim of the injury •.g his entire career. Hanzlik will be counted on to provide depth in the front court and the backcourt. He is a fine ball-handler for someone his size and he has had an outstanding fall at both positions. 
Don Williams and Rich Branning return to head the backcourt play­ers. The "Duck" led the team in scoring with an 18.1 average last year. He finished very strong as he connected on .594 of his field goals and scored 22 points a game over the final third of the season. He became proficient as the middle man in the four corners offense at the end of last season. 
Rich Branning, a "Will 0 the Wisp" playmaker, is the quarter­back of the Irish offense. Last year 
Desmond======================·=·=========================================================================================================================:=====:================:==============:=:=:===:==============··================::====:=:=:===:=:==:=:=============;;===========================:============= 
Strategy 
S. p . t 
:::::::::::::::::::::::::~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 
::=======::=::::=========== 
1x-o1n ers 
Four autumns ago the University of Notre Dame had the nation's finest 
football team. Some critics said that the Irish also were possessors of the 
nation's easiest football schedule. In fact after the Irish defeated 
Southern Cal one Sports Illustrated reader congratulated the Irish on their 
perfect "one-game season." 

Pre-season critics pointetol to the three service academies onthe 
schedule and reminded the nation that 1973 was the last time all three 
academies were on the schedule. ""hat was also the last time the Irish took 
the National crown. Many called the Notre Dame schedule an easy one, 
one that would contribute to a perfect schedule. A look at the opponents' 
successes proves that pre-season speculation was far from accurate. 
Excluding the games played against the Irish the teams on schedule 
have posted a .628 win percentage. In the statistics released by the NCAA 
only Kentucky has played a more difficult schedule to date of teams that 
arc ranked in the top ten and when considering all games, those played 
and those to be played, Penn State is the only top ten team whose 
opponents have a higher win percentage than the Irish. 
One of the reasons for the surprising difficulty of the Irish schedule is 
the success of first-time opponent Clemson. The Tigers are currently 
ranked 15th nationally by the associated press and boast a 7-1-1 record. 
Notre Dame must leave the friendly confines of home and following is a 
look at the match-up that will be viewed by a sellout crowd in Clemson, 
South Carolina and a local television audience here in South Bend: 
When Clemson has the ball: The Tigers boast a very balanced attack 
led by the Atlantic Coast Conference total offense leader Steve Fuller. 
Fuller, who runs the Tigers power-1 offense, is a strong runner and a 
successful passer. He has hit half of his 162 passes good for 1,134 yards 
and seven touchdowns. 

To balance the passing of Fuller, tailbacks Warren Ratchford and Lester .BNWt;l spearhc;a..4 the. Tige,r.grounp,JJipJ.ck. Ratcbfo,:d.<;arries a 5~~ yards 
average and has gained 524 yards ·~rown has gained 381 yards for a 4.0 
yard average. 
Jerry Butler is Fuller's primary · 'Pt having caught 35 passes for 638 
yards. On the line, the balance ti tu the right side where guard Joe 
Bostic is a hefty 258 and tackle L< Brumley is even bigger at 276. 
Defensively, the Irish will be wi1 lllt the services of Mike Calhoun who 
missed the Tech contest with b~ 'lroblems and is listed as out for 
Saturday. Ted Burgmeier who sat 1t SaturdaY's second half with thigh 
contusions is also a "maybe" for ;s Saturday. 
The Irish defense will be called .o meet a similiar offense to the one 
they capably stopped against Sou '"11 Cal. Ross Browner enjoyed his 
finest game against Tech last wet ·~e Yellow Jackets finally carried 
some action his way with their wisl •ne. The beef of Clemson's line is to 
their right, the Irish defense's left-oss Browner's side. In the backfield, 
the Irish will use Tom Flynn to rep the injured Burgmeier. Flynn filled 
in admirably against Tech interce .g one pass in the process. 
When the Irish have the ball: B averaging 46 points and 496 yards in their last four contests the Fightir, , Irish offense has boosted itself into seventh place nationally in total offense with a 422.5 yards per game average and into 10th scoring with an even 33.0 points per ballgame. One of the biggest reasons for the Irish success has been the establishment of a high-powered aerial attack led by Joe Montana and his receivers Ken MacAfee and Kris Haine:s. MacAfee is tied for fourth nationally with 5.2 catches per game and Montana is currently averaging 182 yards of total offense per contest--14th in the nation. Haines, Montana's deep threat, is averaging 22.5 yards p(:r catch and has 17 receptions. . 
On the ground Vagus Ferguson seems to have finally recovered ~om the injury he sustained i111 the Mississippi contest. Ferguson, who gamed 116 yards on but 11 carri4~S against Tech gives the Irish backfield support 
{continued 011, P'l~ Jl] 
.
-......
" _..­
he recorded more than twice as many assists as any of his team­mates and led the team in free throw percentage. He also con­tributed 10.7 points a game, a fine average for a setup guard. 
Jeff Carpenter and Stan Wile~ 
will fight it out for the third guard 
spot. Carpenter has the experience 
and is a gifted passer who has led 
th~:: club in assists per minutes 
played the last three-years. Wilcox 
is a freshman who will lead the 
opposition to believe Ray Martin 
never graduated. Like Martin, 
Wilcox is a Long Island, New York, 
playmaking guard that plays de­
fense. Tim Healy, a sophomore 
walk-on from Florida with out­
standing leaping ability rounds out 
the backkcourt players. 
Notre Dame fans can find out if their team is worthy of its pre­season ranking very soon. The team will play a benefit intra-squad game this Sunday evening in the ACC. After a photo and autograph session from 7-7:30 the Blues will face the Golds in a 40 minute game beginning at 8:00. The following Friday, November 18, the Irish will face the Russian National team at the ACC at 8:15. The regular season begins November 26 when Mississippi travels to South Bend to see what it is like to play Notre Dame in its own backyard. 
Women's interhall begins playoffs 
Women's inter hall football wound up its regular season last weekend sending the four top teams into the playoffs. 
Badin, with an 8-2 record will 
take on third place Breen-Phillips 
and their 5-S record Thursday night 
at Cartier Field. Kickoff time is 7 
p.m. 
Immediately following this battle 
will be the Lyon's-Lewis contest. 
Lewis, who was last year's cham­
pion, placed fourth this season, 
finishing with a 4-6 record. Second 
place Lyons, with its 7-3 mark will 
try to thwart a repeat of last year. 
The second game is slated for 8 
p.m. 
The winners of Thursday night's action will face each other Sunday afternoon at 1:30 p.m., again on Cartier Field . 




