~c------­
•. 
' 
By Wassertrom 
'The good society'discussed 
by Kathleen Connelly visible as something undesirable as persuasive as the pluralist view 
Senior Staff Reporter and taken as just,'' W asserstrom because, in regard to sexism, it 
asserted. Because of this tacit fails to take into account certain 
The assimilationist ideal is not an acceptance of sexual inequality, realities." 
adequate solution to the problem of W asserstrom believes that sexism W asserstrom concluded his talk 
sexism, according to professor is perhaps a more insidious evil with the assertion that confining 
Richard W asserstrom. In a well­than racism. sexual roles are seriously and 
attended lecture last Friday in the . W asserstrom presented as an morally objectionable. He argued 
Memorial Library loung, Wasser­alternative solution to the problem that sex roles make women the 
strom discussed the definition of of defining sexual roles the ex­servants of men and result in the 
"the good society" with respect to treme opposite of assimilation, a attitude that the concerns of men 
sex roles. system rigidly structured with each are more important than the con­
Referring back to his lecture last sex neatly placed in an inescapable cerns of women. 
Wednesday, W asserstrom defined niche. "But this," Wasserstrom "This is analogous to a form of 
the assimilationist ideal in terms of stated. ''is not amenable to our slavery. Such a system has no place 
a racially tolerant society. "In this assumption that in the good society in a decent and just society," 
society, skin color would be as justice and freedom should not be W asserstrom stated. 
important as eye color--of no more allocated on the basis of sex." W asserstrom asserted that it is 
significance than eye color." Another alternative presented by morally objectionable to prevent 
Wasserstrom stated that while Wasserstrom was the pluralist individuals from exploring their the assimilationist view is applic­view. This view allows for equality potentials and fully developing able and practical as a solution to in all areas, with a few necessary talents. Wasserstrom also indi­the problem of racism, it cannot be exceptions. He compared it to the cated that sex roles are unjust applied to the problem of sexism. position that religious differentia­because they are forced on indivi­
He gave as reasons for this tion occupies in society today. duals by the circumstances of their 
assertion that racism and sexism "You would not expect a Methodist birth and society. "We cannot are entirely different types of social minister to preach in a Roman choose whether we will be born practices. Racism is largely institu­Catholic church," Wasserstrom male or female," he commented. tionalized, and there is a well­commented, adding that certain Professor W asserstrom is pro­defined target for efforts, but "sex areas must be restricted to men or fessor of Law and of Philosophy at roles are a part of the ideology of women on the basis of physical or the University of California. He has society,'' W asserstrom observed. psychological capabilities. He also served as attorney for the Civil 
Another problem with regard to stressed, however, that these areas Rights Division of the Department 
the society based on assimilation is should be few owing to the adapt­of Justice. that it does not allow for the ability of our culture. He added expression of individual masculi­that traditional roles should be Notte Dame cheerleaders, leprachaun Joe Cosgrove, and students greeted the victorious basketball team last night at the circle. The Irish beat Houston to advance to the second round of the NCAA tournament. Story on sports page. [Photo by John Calcutt] 
nity or femininity, nor does it take realigned. "Sex role socialization, into account certain undeniable not biological factors, determine physical and tempermental differ­relathce abilities for child raising," 
Union committees make moves 
ences between men and women. W asserstrom observed. W asserstrom stated that it is "Under the pluralist system, the presently a fact of society that good society would contain some 
to reopen nation's coal mines
"Men and women are socialized to institutional and personal levels of view men and strong and aggres­differentiation on the basis of sex." [AP]· Union safety committees afternoon · the first step in reopen­
cials were legally required to urge
sive, women as weak and passive." W asserstrom said W asserstrom made the first moves toward reo­ing.
their men back to work, and at
Wasserstrom alluded to the vast acknowledged however, that this pening at least two of the nation's One safety committee, from Lo­
meeting after meeting they did.
potential for adaptability of society same differentiation within the struck coal mines yesterday as cal 6196, went into the Keystone
But some predicted later that the 
as a tool for implementing equality system would cause difficulties that union officers told hundreds of mine near Welch, W.Va. "I had to 
order would have little effect. 
between sexes. He gave as an could hinder personal freedom. local meetings that a Taft-Hartley order them back to work,'' said
Even where locals were deciding
example the recent push for special "Non-assimilationist systems so order directs the miners to go back Wilbur Christian, local president. 
to obey the order, UMW members 
facilities for those confined to far have restricted women from to work. Christian said he expected the
said they would not cross picket
wheelchairs. He commented that living the lives they ought to and Whether the order would be safety unit to finish by midnight •
lines if resisting miners set them
similar special allownaces can be concentrated power in the hands of widely obeyed-some locals were perhaps allowing production to made for special difficulties stem­men," W asserstrom said. told to report on the 12:01 a.m. up. resume on the 8 a.m. shift today. 
The strike, which began Dec. 6,
ming from sexual differences . W asserstrom tied together the shift today-and whether it would But John Crenwhaw, a member
has cut coal production in half. 
Another problem with assimila­undesirability of sex roles with restore much coal production, re­of the safety committee, said the
Union safety committees began
tion is that sexism is "a deeper practical reality commenting that mained uncertain. men would not cross a picket line if 
inspecting two big mines in Ken­
phenomenon than racism, deeply "However persuasive the assimi­The United Mine Workers offi-one was set up. When the
tucky and West Virginia Sunday
imbedded in society. It is less lationist ideal may be, it is still not committee entered the mine at 3 
p.m. yesterday, there was no sign of trouble. 
In western Kentucky, another safety committee checked a surface mine owned by the River Queen
Pace announces new editorial board 
Strip Mine Co. between Central City and Greenville, according to by Tony Pace Parkersburg, West. Va., will has served as senior staff reporter junior from Indianapolis, will David Hinton, president of Local 
Features Editor recruit and train new production and copy reader. Lewis, from replace Karen Chiames as Produc­1178. people, organize the photo file, and Nashville, Ind., has also been a tion Manager. Nevin will be in At Monongahela, Pa., however, Newly elected Observer Editor-in be in charge of supplements. He senior staff reporter and a copy charge of the typists and night members of Local 2244 said theyChief Tony Pace announced his has served as a night editor and as reader. In addition, he has been a controllers. Nevin has served in were bitter that President Jimmythese capacities this year.
editorial board for the 1978-79 a photographer. day editor. Wilson, from Monte­Carter had invoked the Taft-Hart­Observer last night. The new plier. Ind., has been a senior staff ley Act to obtain an order for an
Langhenry, a junior from Arling­Doug Christian, a sophomore
board will assume their responsi­reporter and copy reader. 80-day cooling off period in the
ton. Illinois. will oversee the News from Jenkintown, Pa., is the new
bilities after spring break. strike.
Department and recruit and train Jean Powley, a junior from photography editor. He replaces 
"I'm a damn good Democrat, butSteve Odland. a sophomore from new reporters. Langhenry has been Chagrin Falls, Ohio, will remain as Leo Hansen. Christian has been an he's make a Republican out ofDenver, Colorado, will replace a senior staff reporter. Copy Saint Mary's Editor. Powley will . Observer photographer this past me," said Walter Sgaggini. 
Martha Fanning as Managing Editor. and, most recently, News continue to supervise the coverage year. 
Local UMW president AlvinEditor. His duties include super­Editor. of Saint Marv's activities. 
Filling the newly created position Berkich told about 300 strikers that vision of the production depart­
The position of Copy Editor has of Associate Sports Editor is Greg
The new Sports Editor is Ray the back-to-work order took effectment. Odland has been a night 
ben elevated to the editorial board Solman. He has served as a sports
O'Brien. He replaces Paul Steven­with the 12:01 a.m. shift today. 
editor for the past year. . 
and will be held by Phil Cackley. son. A junior from Colts Neck, N.J. writer and worked on page layout "We're not going back," James
Rosemary Mills, a sophomore The position is currently held by O'Brien worked on the Observer for the past year. Solman will Simboli said after the meetingfrom Bergenfield, N.J., will Joan Fremeau. A junior from assist Sports Editor O'Brien. 
sports staff his freshman and adjourned. "We've been out more assume Maureen Flynn's duties as South Ben~ Cackley has been a sophomore years and was the than 90 days now, and going back
Editorial Editor. Mills has worked senior staff reporter and copy Frank Kebe, a junior from Indi­
Sports Editor for the Scholastic for would defeat the purpose of what 
as a senior staff reporter, night anapolis, will assume the other new 
reader. this past year. we've done."
editor, features writer, and edi­post of Senior Night Editor. Kebe
There will be three new editors The local union meetings wer
toriallayout person during the past Bryan Gruley, a junior from will oversee the night editors and 
on the new board. They are Ann held to pass along formal word of 
year. Detroit, will replace Pace as assistant night editors. He will also 
Gales, Mike Lewis, and Diane the court order from union officials
Features Editor. Gruley has writ­be in charge of production sup·­
John Calcutt and Barb Lang­Wilson. All three students are who were served with copies of the 
ten features articles and worked pN.es. Kebe has worked as both an 
j
henry will fill the Executive Editor sophomores. They will replace order by U.S. marshals. Many
page layout. assistant and a night editor in the
positions. Kathy Mills currently Executive News Editor Barbara locals, including those not yet
past two years. 
serves as .the newspaper's Execu­Breitenstein and News Editor Katie Three non-board positions have formally notified, scheduled similar tive Editor. Calcutt. a junior from Keh\jn. Gales, from Glenview, ID., also been filled. Mardi Nevin, a meetings today. j 
Monday, March 13, 1978
the observer 

,...News Briefs ________,., 
._ 

~==================================:::::=: National Moratorium suggested 
WASIDNGTON -The government's top trustbuster suggests a moratorium on oil company expansion into coal and solar power until the Energy Department completes "a detailed financial accounting" of the industry. "Until that information becomes available, we should consider imposing a moratorium to stop the oil companies from making further acquisitions," said John Shene­field, head of the Justice Department antitrust division. Shenefield said he does not favor dismembering major oil companjes. "But I am concerned about oil companies owning fuel pipelines. They should be Qperated by firms that don't own the products that are passing through them." 
IWI!:ATHER 
Increasing cloudiness today with rain likely tonight and tomorrow. Warmer today but cooler tomorrow. Lows tonight in upper 20s and low 30s. Highs today mid to upper 40s. It's a heat wave. Highs tomorrow in upper 30s. 

,..On Campus Today _ _____. 
11:15am 
12:15 pm 
12:30-1 pm 3:30pm 
5 pm 
6:30pm 
6:45pm 7 & 10 pm 7:20pm 
8 pm 
8 pm 
8 pm 
10 pm lecture "the passover seder in early rabbinic sources i: the four questions," by lawrence hoffmann, hebrew union college, n.y. spon. by ctr. for the study of judaism & christianity & theology dept. rare book rm. library. (daily thru march 17) 
lecture "computer managed tutorials in any subject," by dr. robert burns, nd. spon. by education media office. for teaching assistants and other grad students. 242 o'shag hall. 
film "title vii: a case study--at&t." spon. by 
women's rights assoc. rm. 105 law school. 
lecture "judiciary & juridicial scholarship," by 
prof. peter classen, univ. of heidelberg. spon by 
medieval institute. rm. 715 mem. lib. 
meeting french club. faculty dining room, south 
dining hall. 
banquet annual nd basketball banquet. ace arena. 
rosary daily at grotto. 
film "king lear" (paul schofield) spon by college of a&l. engr. aud. $1. 
duplicate bridge ladies of nd, faculty & staff duplicate bridge. univ. dub. 
movie "the roots of madness spon by history club. Iafortune amph. no $. 
performance spanish dances in concert. sponby dept. of modern languages, tickets $4-adults, $2-students at door. o'laughlin aud. 
the second scene "home" by david storey. spon by nd/smc theatre, regina aud. no $. 
film & lecture "j.p. stevens boycott," by fr. patrick sullivan c.s.c., organizer of actwu. mem. lib. aud. 
reception bill bradley, former ny knicks basket­ball player & candidate for u.s. senate from new jersey. spon by nd/smc young democrats. lib. lounge. 
room reservations for fall semester 1978-79 thru 3-17-78. 
lettermen in concert, april 20th, tickets $2.50 & _ $1.50 on sale today at nd credit union. 


College Poetry 
Review 
The National Poetry Press is now accepting manuscripts for their College Poetry Review from any student attending a junior or senior college. The closing date for the submission of manuscripts is April 1. 
There is no limitation as to the form. length, or theme of a student's verse, but shorter works are preferred because of space limitations. Each poem must be typed or printed on a separate sheet and must bear the name and home address of the student and the college address as well. En­trants should also submit the name of their English instructor. 
Manuscripts should be sent to the Office of the Press, National Poetry Press, Box 218. Agoura. California 91301. 
Summer trip planned 
Anyone interested in going to Mexico City and Acapulco this summer is asked to attend a meeting Tuesday. March 14, at 
10:30 p.m. in the Little Theatre, first floor LaFortune. The trip will run from May 23 to June 1. 
Thjs trip is open to anyone, according to Copora. organizer of the trip. For further information, call Copora, 7735. 
SMC elections 
Elections for Saint Mary's SBP. SBVP Student Affairs, and SBV Academic Affairs will be held today 
om 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. in the LeMans lobby. All students. 'ncluding seniors, are eligible to 'IOte. 
/ 
~-------..


II LOOK II 

OUT!! I WOWI I 
I 


IS I COMINGI 
Organizational meeting 
There will be an organizational meeting for all students interested in forming a Washington, D.C. Club tonight at 7 p.m. in the basement of Farley. All students from the Virginia and Maryland areas are invited to attend. 
Bradley to appear 
The ND-SMC Young Democrats are sponsoring a reception for Bill Bradley this evening at 10 p.m. in the Library"' Lounge. The former New York Knicks basketball star is a candidate for the U.S. Senate from New Jersey and all interested students and faculty are invited to attend and meet Bradley. Refresh­ments will be served. 
Bradley, 34, is an honors gradu­ate from Princeton University and was a Rhodes Scholar at Oxford University for two years after attending Princeton. 



Bradley has been long active in political and social causes, and in 1975, Time magazine listed him as onP nf the 200 Young Leaders in America., and in 1977, the U.S . Jaycees named him as one of America's Ten Outstanding Young Men. 
Jewish author speaks 
Prof. Lawrence A. Hoffman of New York City's Hebrew Union College will direct a minicourse on the liturgy of the Passover Seder and present a public talk, "Recent Developments in the Liturgies of American Judaism," at 8 p.m. tomorrow night in the Galvin Lfe Sciences Auditorium. 
His appearance is sponsored by the Department of Theology and the Center for the Study of Judaism and Christianity. Faculty, graduate students and advanced undergrad­uate students will participate in the weeklong minicourse. 
f!offman is the editor of "Gates of Understanding," 1977, a com­panion volume to "Gates of Prayer." 1975, a prayerbook for which he served as consultant. It has been described as the first major change in the liturgy of the Reform Movement in 30 years. 

L E MEN 
·--------f:*====================~ 
r 
Night Editor: Rosemary Mills 
layout Staff: John Cassidy, Sue Wuetcher, Jerry Jarzynka Features layout: Reed King Sports layout: Ray O'Brien Typists: Mark Rust, Ann Giere, Katie Brehl, Steve Odland (cutie!) 
Night Controller: Mardi Nevin 
Day Editor: Bob Bernowski Copy Reader: Debbie Darh­
ltng 
Ad layout: John O'Connell 
Photographer: John Calcutt 
The Observer is published Mon. day through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for S20 per year (S 1 o per semester) from The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 4US6. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Indiana, 46H6. 
The Observer Is a member of the Associated Preu. All repro­duction rights are reaerved. 


;{~~~ 
0~ ~


n.d. aedit is sponsoringthe Lettenneri 
~ 0~

in concert for aedit union members 
L~~ 'b-~ 

on·april 20. 1978 at 7:15 p.m. 
~ <:)<q

at the a.c. 

~ ~y.. 
(j


IN CONCERT 
~ tickets: $4 

Tid<ets now on sale at both office locatiens on NOand Saint 
students $2.

Mary's calt1)us. Tid<et Aice: $2.50 floor· and lower arena $1.50 bleacher seats. 
If you are not now a member this is the peried time to join 
SPANISH DANCES IN CONCERT 
St. Mary's College MAR. 13, 1978. 8PM Olaughlin Auditorium 
SMC and NO students are eligible to join). 
Services indude: Share draft acmunts (checking), savings acmunts, 
reservations: call 284-5787 or 5788 travelers cheques, 
atch the splendor of Spain's past come alive!
free notary public. 

,:a a so~-... c a = 

Helen Gallagher, coordinator of the World Hunger Coalition. [Photo by john Calcutt] , 
Israelis snare Arab guerrillas, end hunt 
TEL AVIV*, Israel [AP] -The terroris!s had been found among military command said yesterday it the bodies of Israelis burned in the has accounted for all eleven Arab wrecked bus. Military sources said terrorists involved in the bloodiest at least one of the dead guerrillas raid in Israel's history. It halted a 
was a woman. 

massive hunt for possible guerrilla The military lifted the curfew survivors near Tel Aviv and lifted a imposed along a 25-mile stretch of curfew in the area. the coastal Plain of Sharon after the area was combed by combat troops 
A military spokesman said nine and police, aided by dogs andof the terrorists were killed and the heliicopters.
other two were captured. The curfew. the first in a Jewish
He reported a least 32 Israelis area since Israel declared its inde­were killed and 72 were wounded in pendence in 1948, covered an areaSaturday's terror rampage -most of upper-middle-class suburbs with of them sightseers on a tour bus about 300.000 Israeli residents and~ija~lted by gu~rrillas on a highway a large group of American andhnkmg Tel Aviv and Haifa. 
other foreighn residents. 

Earlier. the government had After a violent ride on the heavilyannounced 37 Israelis were. killed traveled coastal highway, the hi­and 76 wounded and that three of jacked vehicle finally was stopped athe guerrillas had escaped and a barricade erected across the were being sought. But the highway seven miles north of Telspokesman said yesterday night Aviv. It had sped 30 miles souththat further identification of the from the point where it wasremains reduced the number of comandeered.
Israelis slain and the bodies of the "This is a terrible day in ourguerrillas being sought were found lives," Begin said in an emotion­in the charred wreckage of the bus. 
choked voice. The news conference 

Prime Minister Menachem was broadcast live to the stunned 
Begin said the "architects of the nation. He put off talks with 
bloodbath cannot enjoy impunity," President Jimmy Carter for at least 
suggesting possible retaliation. a week. 
In Beirut .. the Palestinian Gener-Defense Minister Ezer 
al Command said guerrillas clashed Weizman. recalled from talks in the 
twice yesterday with Israeli forces United States. told reporters the 
north of Tel Aviv "inflicting heavy eleven raiders came from Lebanon 
losses on enemy ranks." Israeli did and that he held that country 
not mention continued fighting. responsible for the massacre. 
The military spokesman said the Weizman's words appeared to 
nine terrorists were killed when carry an ominous threat, consider­
troops blockaded the careening bus ing Israel's past policy of retalia­
and the two were captured at the tory bombing raids against guerril­
same time. He said remains of the Ia bases in Lebanon. 
~********************************* 
E Spring Break Bus Seroice ~ 
* T Ch' * 
~ 10 fCa90 ~ 
* * 
* *
* * 
* * 
* * 
* * 
* *
* * 
* * 
* * 
* * 
* * 
* *
* * 
~ THURS. MARGI 16 ~
* FRl MARCH r7 * ~ Buses leave Circle at 6:05 :: 
* * 
~ one way $8.15 round trip $15.50 ~ 
* * 
~ For info and tickets call Shep 8330 ~ -~~-~~.:t:~.~:t'.:t:~*~~:t:***-****************~ 
Monday, March 13, 1978 the Observer 
By Hunger Coalition _______.!U.W..J~.JUJJiilJ.___~ 


Workshop presented 
The role churches and universi­Other universities such as
by Tom Phillis ties could play in bringing about Illinois, Wisconsin, Minnesota change was Smith's next point. He California and Harvard have al:Yesterday afternoon 200 persons 

said they should "use their invest­ready done similar things. Smith
attended a four-hour workshop 
ments to see what they can do for recognized Notre Dame's start in
conducted by the Hunger Coalition. 
social concerns." He cited Citi­the right direction when he com­
The workshop, "Investments, 
bank of New York's recent decision plemented Fr. Hesburgh for his
South African Apartheid, and 
to stop loans to South Africa as one "creative role in the Chase Bank
Notre Dame'', dealt1 mainly with 
example of something obtained by decision to restrict loans to South
corporate responsibility in foreign 
a church's resolution. Africa."
nations and was held in the Library 
After Smith, Penny VanEsterik,
Auditorium. Smith layed out a six-step plan 
professor of sociology and anthro­
The workshop's speakers on what he felt Notre Dame and 
pology, related her studies and
brought up some important issues. Sa.int Mary's could do to help. He 
experiences in Thailand which
Bob Jacobs, press relation person said that the university should:l) 
concerned how multi-national food
for the Coalition, stated "If it is the "make public its portfolio and its 
companies were involved in infant
Hunger Coalition's fault that in the votes on issues concerning South 
malnutrition. She disapproved of
past the issues were not addressed Africa"; 2) "Write aletter to all of 
these corporations' efforts to force, 
this workshop should signify that the companies in South Africa in 
American ways on the people of
we will be remiss no longer." which it owns stock and give them 
Thailand, mainly through advertis­
Timothy Smith, national director their position on the issues"; 3) 
ing.

of Interfaith Center on Corporate "hold public hearings on the issues 
She stated, ''I'm against the idea 
Responsibility, opened his pre­with company representatives"; 4) 
of one country imposing any pat­
sentation with the showing of a film "go to stockholders' meetings and 
tern of feeding on another country'' 
on present conditions in South ~peak out on the issues"; 5) "join 
and suggested that stockholders in 
Africa. Smith then discussed the m filing stockholders' resolutions"; 
companies imolved in the produc­
role of banks and corporations in and 6) "form a committee with 
tion of infant formula and milk
the situation. He stated that the representatives from all parts of 
products should ''force changes in
$17 billion in corporate investments the umversity family to oversee this 
marketing."
and $2.2 billion in bank loans process." 
[COntinued on page

"supports Apartheid and the status 
quo." Smith feels that oil companies may even be violating the U.S. arms embargo because it operates in South Africa. they "must. by law. supply oil products to the military." Companies in South Africa have a low percentage of black workers. According to Smith, this is true because companies feel like they ''come as guests of the host country" and "if a law in a ALL MAJOR SPORTS country requires a company to be 
ON 7FT T.V.
racist they are forced to be so." 
SHAKEY'S 

SUPER SUPPER
FAMOUS
AMBITIOUS LEADERS 

5 -7:30 MON -TUES -WED 
WA-NTED 
Pizza-Chicken· 




$216

All Majors. Start using your education and training without the years of menial 
·Spaghetti-Salad 
c.hores expe~ted of most starting posi­tions. Th1s 1s an opportunity to take 
All You Can Eat ~~~s
charge of ahighly trained staff of young people right away. Only those inter­ested in advancement, challenging opportunities and fantastic benefits ~eed ~pply. Call 312-657-2234 for an 1nterv1ew. We are a DOD EOE organization. ' 
Monday April 10 8:00 pm Notre Dame ACC All Seats Reserved $8.00 & 7.00 
Tickets go on sale Monday March 13 at Student Union Ticket Office · and ACC Box Office 
~.....,---.J:·--·--~
-------~---------,.---~---:--:--c;-------. 
4 the observer Monday, March 13, 1978_ 
\~.......~....,.. ...................-..... _...,.........~............................ .....,.... -.....--........ ,
\Workshop presented fs . h . 
1by Hunger coalition 1 pot11g t programcont1n~es 
~[Continued from page 3) take credit for." i 
by Kate NUand Representatives from the Col­about their intended college 
~ VanEsterik listed three "condi-A panel discussion was held to I lege of Science will also meet with program.
\lions which make formulas promo-end the workshop. The main topicIAs a continuation ofthe Spotlight freshmen from 3-5 p.m. this week. The purpose of the Spotlightrion wrong in underprivileged of the discussion was a "Statement program, a college consulting ser­Jaime A. Saavedra, administra­program has been to prepare-f;reas of the Third World.: (1) it is of Corporate Responsibility at vice is being offered this week for tive assistant in the College of freshmen for the week of Mar. 
'ethnocentric" to impose a Wes-Notre Dame" which will be pre­all interested freshmen. Business Administration, will be 28-Apr. 1 when they must declare item norm on a non-Western soci-sented to the university in the form! Each ofthe four colleges within the available for consultation in his their college program. tety; (2) adequate supplies of baby of an open letter sometime in the University has set up times in Upon selection, the students'
office in Hayes-Healey from 2-5 
~ormula often cost "between SO near future. Smith. in his closing which students can ask questions p.m. this week. records will be forwarded to the ~ercent and 80 percent of a family's remarks, called for a boycott on and seek assistance in choosing a Specific locations and times of particular college in time for ~ncome;" and (3) the "technology Nestle. He said he felt "it wouldI college program. the open house visits for the advance registration.Y,:equired for safe use (of baby be an effective action" for the~ The Student Advisory Council of On Monday, Aprill7, all fresh­
Colleges of Arts and Letters,
iformula) is absent". VanEsterik Notre Dame community. ~ the College of Arts and Letters is men must attend a pre-advance
Engineering, and Business can be 
lrelated that while a resident of • sponsoring the annual "Meet Your found in the Dean's newsletter. registration meeting in their selec­hhailand, ''I tried to sterilize a Thai ~ 
Major" program which will run In addition, the Individual Sur­ted college for more details on ibottle and it melted." RI.Vl o i through Tlhursday. Each depart­vey and Testing Program is still advance-registration procedures. i VanEsterik went on to say that e.JLUJ [1m U ~ ment within the college will make a available in the Freshman Year Further details will be given in the 
0

["where fromula is widely used. it is [ presentation outlining the impor­office for freshmen who are unsure next Dean's newsletter. lwidely misused." but the formula l tant details of the college such as iproducer's attitude "seems to be: i requirements and career opportun­
i'let the buyer beware'" VanEsterik ~ ities. They will also answer any 

UMW, coal industry
rnoted that "the buyers are pretty [ questions students might have1small." VanEsterik concluded by 1 about a department or major. J saying that baby formulas are l The chairmen of the various 
~needed in the Third World, "but i departments in the College of recess contract talks 
~not on the scale on which they are ~ Engineering will meet from 3-5 WASHINGTON [AP] -Negotia­UMW president Arnold Miller r used." She said "infant mortality • p.m. during the week with interest­tors for the striking United Mine also said it was not possible to frates are declining ... but it's cer-~ ed students in designated Workers and the coal industry predict the outcome of the talks. 1 tainlv not something Nestle can ._l locations . recessed their main contract talks Camicia confirmed that the in­
.w:-~~~~~ ...,........,.....,_....,... 

One way may be to live within the Augustinian Frstemlty. When you come to live with us, you observe and participate In our community life for seversl years before m.tllng a fiMI commitment. You observe that we are a religious community following the charlsm of St. Augustine and "that together and with one heart In brotherhood and spiritual friendship, we seek and worship God and that we labor In the service of the people of God." We serve In colleges, hJgh schools, parishes, foreign missions, campus ministries, retreats, hospitals and military chaplaincies. 
WANT MORE INFORMATION? CONTACT: 
Father Bill Waters, O.S.A. VIllanova University P.O. Box 338 VIllanova, PA 19085 (215) 525-5612 
Nem.,_________________________ 
Addree•'--------------------------------­
City_______State._________zlp.______ 
SohoolorOco. Age Pho,. 

yesterday, eliminating hopes for a dustry had offered a revised con­tentative contract settlement before tract proposal that was being used a back-to-work court order took full as the basis for further negotia­effect today. tions.
Billiards champ Officials on both sides of the "It's our proposal they're look­97-day walkout stressed that the ing at," he said. recess did not indicate a breakdown "We're getting down to the
to perform of the talks, and said bargainers brass tacks,'' said Camicia. would continue to meet in small He added, "We still have a lot of 
Paul Gerni, the pocket billiards groups to discuss remaining issues. work to do" before reaching a champion of the world for the past But with federal marshals com­settlement. but said he was en­three years, will be performing in pleting efforts to serve back-to­couraged by the talks. 
the LaFortune Pool Room tomorrow work orders in the coalfields, they An industry spokesman who evening at 8 p.m. conceded that no agreement ap­declined to be identified said, "at 
Gerni, a native of South Bend, is peared imminent in the long dis­some point you have to start considered t.o be the best trick shot pute. flushing ideas out, and that takes artist in the world and has toured "There's not going to be any­time." 
throughout the U.S. and Europe. thing for you to hang around for Miller said, "I think we're 
The performance is sponsored by today," top industry bargainer making progress," but he refused the Student Union Social Commis­Nicholas T. Camicia told reporters to speculate on whether a settle­sion and admission is free. as he left the hotel where talks ment could come within a few days. 
were being held. 
~~-~~ a..EAN IF YOlJl ACT 

BEFORE BREAK AT 
THE KNIGHTS 
...mens hai" cutting 

277-1691
atilstilest 

272-0312 54533 Terrace Lane 
Tues. & Wed. 8:30;6:30 Only 5 minutes
Thurs. & Fri. ; 8 :30-8 :30 from campus
Sat. 8 :30-5 :30 
College Graduates 
All Majors. Start using your education and training without the years of menial chores expected of most starting positions. This Is an opportunity to take charge of a highly trained staff of young people right away. Only those interested m advancement, challenging opportunities and fantstic benefits need apply. Call312-657·2234 for an interview. We are a DOD, EOE organization. 
Sunshine Promotions Notre Dame Student Union 




DAVE 
BOB WELCH 

also CLOVER WEDNESDAY MARCH 15 · 7:30pm NOTRE DAME ACC 
All Seats Reserved: $7.00 ~ $6.00 
On Sale Now at Student Ticket 
Office and at ACC Box Office 

sophomores 





ClllEIE. 
Army ROTC can help you develop two career opportunities after college. 
First, Army ROTC gives you two years of practical management training and leadership experience while you're still in school. Extra credentials that will set you apart in the civilian job market. 
Second, Army ROTC offers you a part-time leadership opportunity as an officer in the Army Reserve or Army National Guard. That means extra income. management responsibility, community involvement. 
Two careers. For details, contact: 
Major John L MacNeil Room 236 in the ROTC Building 
'r call 6264 -6265 -7332. 
TIE AllY 1m TID·YUR PIIIIIRII. FOR TIE -UFE. 



HThe Choirboys" 

No Ordinary Choir Practice 

mark rust 

,...............................................................,( 'II F' I, d b d 
Joseph Wambaugh's The Choirboys has its moments, but they are few and far between. The plot (or what is left of the plot after it was maladapted to the screen by Christopher Knopf) is disjointed. There is little or no character development until the last few minutes of the film. And finally, it fails in a fundamental way when it tells us how--but not why--the police in Wambaugh's world have cold, cruel, callous perspectives on reality. In short, The Choirboys is a pretty mediocre flick. 
-The film attempts to show what happens to a policeman's view of life when he deals with the perverted world of crime and police bureacracy. He is exposed to all the callousness of the two worlds which, in turn, renders him just as callous. Since he is repelled equally by both the outside world (in which he comes into contact with only the criminal element) and the officials of the police department (who, although better dressed, remain on the same moral level as the criminals) the policeman chooses his own kind--the other policemen­as his primary group of friends. The code phrase for hanging out together after duty is "choir practice" (thus, "The Choir­boys"). Choir practice is a study in the art of debauchery; the men all get rip-roaring drunk and play cruel tricks on one another (common run of the mill things like stuffing a duck down the pants of a passed out man and handcuffing a naked officer to a tree in 
the last thirty minutes of the film, when all of a sudden two characters--Spermwhale Whalen (played by Charles Durning, a character actor seen most recently in Dog Day Afternoon and Twilight's Last Gleaming) and Sam Lyles (played by Don S'troud, a familiar looking actor who has appeared in a number of TV productions and most recently in the film Sudden Death]--show some substance. The movie almost makes· a comeback when Sperm­whale tries to explain why his former partner, a veteran of 32 years on the force, committed suicide. "He always told me, 'Whale, all you need to be a good cop is a little compassion and a good sense of humor.' I guess after 32 years on the force he lost his sense of humor.'' Whalen is, at the same time, explaining the lack of compassion and perverted sense of humor that we have seen demonstrated by his peers throughout. It is the closest that Wambauph comes to telling us "why.'' Then the movie begins to head in the right direction, when a young homosexual is picked up and treated coarsely by the arresting officer and compassionately by Sgt. Scuzzi of Vice (because, we are to assume, his is more of a desk job--he is not exposed to the sick world that breeds sickness in the officers on the street.) 
The film suddenly focuses on Lyles, who, the beginning of the film tells us, has been exposed to the cold, violent reality of Vietnam. His character is explored and he turns out to be a genuinely likeable chap with only one problem: like the rest of the choirboys, he has the seed of violence planted within_:, just waiting for the proper climate in which to become fertile and explode. Lyles is provided with that climate when he attempts to arrest a high priced S&M call girl who is busy whipping, of all people, his close friend on the force, Baxter Slate (played well by Perry King). The moment of anguish by both parties at the confrontation--the embarrassment of Slate, the realization of Lyles that this represents some disease to which they are all exposed, and the confusion of what role to play when the good guys and the bad are not so clear cut--is particularly well done and is possibly the high point of the movie. 
From there on the movie snowballs. Slate commits suicide because he can't bear the humiliation. Lyle, feeling responsible for his friend's death, attends a very subdued "choir practice" to get drunk and forget. When he passes out he; is carried into the police van, gun and all (I find it totally implausible that guns are treated so lightly throughout the movie by people whose profession it is to know better) and the door is accidently shut and barred. We are expecting what follows. Lyles, who developed an advanced case of claustrophobia when he was cruelly trapped and hunted in violent Vietnam, wakes up in a drunken haze, realizes that he. is trapped, and freaks out. He bangs away at the door in a fit of rage and draws his gun to fire; at the exact same time, the young homosexual (who was freed by the good graces of sergeant's compassion one scene earlier) happens by, hears the. screaming and banging. and unlocks the door as Lyles unloads his gun into him. The boy falls dead and the theme becomes clear--cruelty breeds cruelty, violence breeds violence. 
If one overlooks the various implausibi­lities and contrived coincidences, this theme of repaying violence in kind is fairly well portrayed, thanks to a fine acting job by Stroud and Durning. Stroud is the personification of this theme, and Durning is the conscience that articulates it for us. But it is hard to overlook the negatives. Too much time is spent on showing us just what a rowdy perverted lot the choirboys are (presumably to titillate the audience with a hom-a-plenty of sex and violence). Too little time is spent on showing why they are that way, and why the exposure to crime breeds criminal tendencies (in fact, in some scenes we get exactly the opposite feeling as the barbaric police confront the criminals who, in contrast, seem positively civil). The women are unreal, the police are unreal, and the picture of the world that is painted is distorted and unrecog­nizable. 


• the resemblance is remarkable right down 
•WSND Album Hour 
to the harmonies, where one must some­
+ 
: MANFRED MANN'S EARTH 
+ 
BAND

+ 
M fr d M • E rth B d f 1 


+kn an eM afrnndsM a . than :xtfrm~ Y 
own as an e ann m e Sl es, as• been a major influence in rock 'n roll. This 

• alb I I h th tu 'ty th' band
+ urn c ear y s ows e rna n IS
+ha~ ach~eved. The s~>ngs on this album a~e 
• qutte dtverse rangmg from pure rock n 
II . Th I f ult f th' I . that
0

+ro to Jazz. e on Y a IS P IS
+the instrumentals are often drawn out and 
· ·• 

repetitive. . .
+ Note.worthy cuts m~lude Ctr~les, : Drowmng, on Dryland/Fish ~up, Cal~or­
+nia, Davy son the Road Agam, and Q~nn 
+the Es~m~. Dr~~infa1ont ~ryi~/Fish
+Soup tsp ay~ .etr en m !lg .a
+!Dellow acoustiC .P!ece ~nd transformm~lt
+mto a hard-dnvmg . mstrument~. e 
remake of the classic tune Qumn the : Eski~o.will be a favorite for all rock fans of 
+the stxties. HORSLIPS 
i 
Horslips is a driving rock 'n roll band from Ireland, who, although relatively unknown in the U.S., has built up quite a following in the Emerald Isle. Their guitar-based music, tempered with a strong rhythm section and various back­ground instruments (especially the flute), brings inevitable comparisons to Jethro 
Tull on many cuts on this album. Indeed, 
times give a second listen to make sure it is 
nol~ul~his does not detract from the 
album's sound, however. In fact, this album has many strong cuts and holds together as well or better than any recent
• · · 

Jethro Tull album. The bands playmg IS 
quite remarkalle--the guitar licks are fast 
b . d th dru . . fl 
ut.preclse an e ~mmg 1.s aw1ess. 
So if you are a Tull fan m particular, of a rock 'n rnlJ fan in general, consider 
• '!' h h'
catchmg this on the album our t IS week. 
It should definitely be worth your while. 
JIMMY THUDPUCKER What happens when a familiar cartoon character decides to take a stab at another branch of the media? Well, Snoopy seemed to dance just as well on TV specials as he had in the "Peanuts" strip for years. But, it was all downhill in the recording industry. 
Jimmy Thudpucker has always been a favorite in Garry Trudeau's "Doones­bury," and, like Snoopy, his unmatched talent carried right over into the TV special just a few months ago. But, when I ~aw him sing "Stop" on the special, I knew it was only a matter of time before he'd hit the charts with an album. No one can sing life quite like James Monroe Thudpucker-­whether it's on paper or plastic. It's worth a listen ...and even ifyou can't relate to the music, you'll still enjoy the 8 pages of comic that come with the LP. 
. amr e rtz ,prcture a oue) an AEROSMITH l h , ' 
. t ,our ot er Samt Mary s women Aerosmith, one of America's top hardIare displaying their art works 
rock bands, has r~leased a new LP called Draw the Line. Like Rocks , the album fails to measure up to the group's best
effort Toys In the Attic However the· 
• • • • . • • album IS somewhat Interesting tn that 
Aerosmith presents a new sound on a ~ 
number of cuts. 
. . The album open~ With the title cut;
unfortunately a mediocre melody and poor 
. . . . 
rn1X1ng of the mstrumentation get the 
album off to a slow start. However, the first side also provides the group's most innovative number to date. Entitled "Crit·. ical Mass" the intricate music and good 
instmmental interludes m~e the son.gfresh. Joe Perry also makes hts debut as a lead singer on this side with· disappoint­ing results. Only some excellent saxaphone and lead guitar save the rather dull 
number, ''Bright Light Fright.'' Side two is. filled with good, lively hard rock. The side is highlighted by "Kings and Queens," a 
heavy, forceful song, and "Sight for Sore Eyes," an infectious tune in the same vein as the group's hit, "Walk This Way.'' Another highlight is a fast-paced rocker "The Hand that Feeds." Once again Aerosmith introduces a newness to their style. 
While the album is far from one of the year's best, it should provide good. listenin for hard rock fans. 
. WI ISp ay t err Sl screens at 
,
·the lrttle Theatre. Color photo
h b 0 bb' K-'f' h 'II 
·grap S ' Y e le rl IC ' WI 
be shown at the Hammes Gallery. 
photo by John Calcutt 
throu h W dn sda f th' k 
g e e Y 0 IS Wee .
Fitz's paintings and Maureen Sa'b I' , l d h h 'If
I e s m,rare p otograp y WI be featured at Moreau Gallery. Jill Kane and Katie Cinnamond 
'II d' I h , 'lk 



....... 

by Teresa A. Gomo the Career Workshops sponsored two year old program has resulted Of equal appeal to freshman and knowledgable members of the SMC 
by Saint Mary's Career Develop­in a variety of four plans, geared to sophomore students are the Deci­Student Affairs Staff who volunteer 
The search for jobs, or even a ment Center, students from Notre the specific needs of each student.. sion Making-Work Values Work­their personal time in the areas in definite career direction for many Dame as well as Saint Mary's can The pivotal base of a theoretical shops. These offer a chance to which they have been trained. underclassmen, is a topic of con­find some professional help in their workshop has been paired with a learn the basic processes involved Each of the four pairs of com­stant consideration during these search. more practical workshop directly in making life and career decisions, bined workshops are offered in two 

Workshop to help students to choose careers 
undergraduate years. But thanks to The recent reorganization of this 
N~D " /llltJtMiing mi}IJ11:
FUN JOB? 


Positions now a.~ailahle in the .,,, business office If interested suhmit resume by Tuesday 
(Please lea. it in the Features mailhol) 
related to job hunting. 
Even though each workshop pair is open to all class levels, some are of greater interest to upperclass­men directly involved in a job search. The Information-Job Search Workshops are one exam­ple. The initial session deals with gathering and evaluating informa­tion needed to make successful decisions, relating more specifical­ly to knowledge of career opportu­nities. The second session deals directly with organizing at' effec­tive job search: job possi Jilities, applying for jobs and persunalized follow-ups of prospects. 
Another pair popular with juniors and seniors are the Asser­tiveness Training-Interview Skills Workshops. General guidelines of when and how to be assertive in a positive manner, in everyday liv­ing. are later incorporated directly into the interviewing technique. This also is explored through role playing in the second session. 
PREPARE FOR: 
MCIT •DIT •LSIT •BMIT 

• ·• OCIT ·Ill· SIT 1MB I, II, III·ECFMB·FLEX·IQE 
NAT'L DENTAL BOARDS • NURSING BOARDS 
Fl..lble Progr•ms & Hou ... 
'l"hne IS • lllffnnacellt 
For Information Please tall: l ~-fl 
Collect MPUI'N West lafayette EDUCAT.0..AL CENTER 
317-463-7541 TEST PREPARATION 
SPECIALISTS SINCE 193ll 
Serving Blo01¢ngtop, IndianapoJjs, South Bend For IDeations in other citiea 
Outside N.Y. State Only CALL TOLL FREE: 800·223-1782 Centers In Major US C_ltles Toronto, Puerto Rico and Lu1ano, Switzerland 
MCAT, OAT, and LSAT classes now forming. 
A summer of intellectual stimulation 
This June, you can go to 


in a Mediterranean 
one of the world's top 

including topics such as under­standing personal values, assess­ing resources and acting on deci­sions. The following workshop incorporates these ideas into the discussion and evaluates possible career fields according to personal and work values. 
Especially popular among underclassmen hunting for sum­mer jobs is the pair entitled Skill Identification-Resume Clinic. Identification of skills developed by a liberal arts education, in addition to an evaluation of career fields according to each student's domi­nant skills, are topics included in the first session. These ideas are incorporated into functional resume writing in the following clinic. 
Dr. Kathleen Rice, dean of Student Affairs, Jean Gorman, director of Financial Aid, and Betsy Twitchell, director of the Career Development Center, lead the list of qualified instructors. Each are week cycles which vary in time, day, and location of the seminars, in an attempt to give any interested student an opportunity to partici­pate. 
As originator of the paired­
workshop format, Betsy Twitchell 
is very enthusiastic about this 
program. "I believe that the work­
shops are the best way for the 
students to work through an order­
ly process of career development. 
We invite Notre Dame and Saint 
Mary's students of all classes to 
sign up for the workshops at the 
Career Development Center.'' 
This Center is located in the Student Affairs Wing of LeMans Hall. Any further questions can be directed to Betsy Twitchell at 4-1-4431. 
Bassiouni to present memorial lecture 
Dr. M. Cherif Bassiouni, profes­sor of International Law at De Paul University. will speak on the topic of "Perspectives on Mid-East Peace Initiatives" this Wednesday at 3:30p.m. in the Library Auditor­ium. The lecture is the third in the Cardinal O'Hara Memorial Lecture series. 
Dr. Bassiouni is the author of eight major books on Criminal Law and International Criminal Law, including Storm over the Arab World and Intematlonal Terrorism and Political Crimes-He has also written several monographs and 41 law review articles. 
Bassiouni was born in Cairo, Egypt. and became a citizen of the United States in 1966. He has received numerous distinctions and awards such as the Outstanding Educator of America in 1970, Order of Merit. Egypt in 1956, and the Men of Achievement Award. Cam­bridge. England. in 1973. 
• 

----~~~------~------------~ 
Monday, March 13, 1978 
the observer 



Irish icers foiled in upset attempt 
by Cblp Scanlon Sports Writer 
-

Denver -"So close and yet so far." For five periods of hockey the Irish leers skated stride for stride with the nation's number one ranked Denver Pioneers before succumbing to a five goal Denver outburst in the final period to lose the two game, total goal series 13-7. 
"The kids have nothing to hang their heads about." stated Head Coach Lefty Smith. ''They battle the best hockey team in the country for five periods and were leading until the 11 :53 mark of the second. In the final period we just ran out of gas and Denver put it all toge­ther." 
Denver took the lead with 1:18 left in the second period on a power play goal by senior center Craig Roehl and then added five unan­swered goals in what proved to be the final period of hockey for Notre Dame this season. 
"Notre Dame certainly has a lot to be proud about," noted Denver coach Marshall Johnston. "They fought adversity all year and gave us all we could handle for five periods.'' 
Friday night's game was a seesaw battle that saw the lead exchange hands eight times. 
Denver jumped out to a 2-0 lead on goals by Perry Schnarr and Paul Messier before Notre Dame tallied twice within 1:54. Freshman wing Kevin Humphreys took a feed from Dick Howe for the first score and Terry Fairholm drilled a tough angle shot by All-American goalie Ernie Glanville to knot the game. 
The Irish momentum carried in the second period when Tom Mishalek fired a wrist shot to give Notre Dame their first lead of the playoff. After Schnarr scored his second of the night, Bob Baumgar­tner deflected Greg Meredith's pass as he broke for the net and then Kevin Nagurski scored the prettiest goal of the weekend as he decked Glanville and slid the puck into the net. With Notre Dame leading 5-3 Denver rallied to tak the lead 6-5 on goals by Messier, Call Sandbeck and Mark Falcone. But John Peterson, who finished with 26 saves, shut Denver out for the rest of the game and senior winger Baumgartner got his second of the night to end the night with both teams tied 6-6; the first time since 1954 that Denver was tied in a post season playoff. 
Saturday night it looked like an Irish win could put them in good standing for a trip to the NCAA playoffs. Colorado College, Min­nesota-Duluth and North Dakota were declared ineligible for NCAA play and if Colorado College and North Dakota could win their series, the Irish would be assured of a berth. CC did beat Minnesota but Nort Dakota fell short of beating Michigan Tech by an overtime goal. 
Geoff Gollier Collier gave the Irish a 7-6 series lead when Dan Byers and Kevin Nugent worked the puck out in the slot. Jim Babs made the first stop but Collier got his own rebound and beet Babs. And from then until the third period it was a goaltenders battle. 
Len Moher and Bales exchanged saves until the 11 :53 mark of the second period when Dough Berry scored an unassisted goal when the puck came off the boards and bounced in front. Then Roehl scored a power play goal at 18:42 and Denver took the lead for goo, 8-7. 
A tired Irish squad gambled to score in the third period and the Pioneers exploded for five goals. Moher ended his career with a 41 save performance. 
"We gave it our best shot," remarked co-captain Terry Fair­holm after the game. "We were out of gas and as Ali said after his fight with Spinks 'there wasn't a gas station in sight." If we had Donnie (Fairholm), Ted Weltzin and Steve Schneider it could have been a different story." 
The Irish finish the season with a 12-20-2 mark in the WCHA while Denver faces Colorado College in the second round of the WCHA Playoffs. 
tuesday, nlllTCh 14 
8:00pm 
loforturl£ pool room 
.free .from the s.u. social~ 
' 
NOTICES 

MORRISSEY LOAN FUND Student Loans -$2Q-$150, one percent interest. Due In thirty days. M-F, 11:15­12:15, LaFortune basement. 
EVERY STUDENT CAN VOTE IN THE MAY INDIANA PRIMARY -If interested register before spring braek by calling Moat 4-1-4001. 
Typing. Reasonable arates. Call 8051. 
Accurate, fast typing. Mrs. Donoho, 232-Q746. Hours, 8 am to 6 pm. 
TYPING DONE REASONABLE R~TES CALL8086 

Typing done in home. Fats, accurate, reasonable. Close to campus. Call 272-7866 anytime. 
Get to class or work on time. Call Bob's wakeup service at 287-4971. 
Dissertations, manuscripts typed. IBM selectric II. Linda's Letters, 287-4971. 
2-3 girls wanted for off-campus coed house next year. For further information contact Jamie at 8482. 
Organizational meeting-Washington DC area club. All Wash. , MD, Va. students invited. Farley Hall basement, Monday, March 13, 7:00 pm. 
To all interested students: 
The Mental Health Ass. of St. Joe's County needs your support. One to one volunteers are needed to aid in the socialization of emotionally restored men. and women. Call Mary Anne Mulchahy 288-4504 or Joe Hauflaire at the MHA 234-1049. 
Fast accurate typign at home for busy students. Telephone 288-6064 or 289­3279. 
NEED QUALITY TYPING?? Executary Inc., Professional Typing Service, IBM Correcting Selectrics. 85 cents per page minimum. Call 232-0898 "When you want the best." 
LOST AND FOUND 

LOST: One pair timberline boots, lost in ACC, B-ball courts above the ice rink Sat. night. Call Mike at 1759. 
LOST: One expensive black ski glove n~ar the North Dining Hall on Feb. 21. Give my hand a break. Call 1653. 
LOST: Near the Library bar, aset of keys to rm. 217. If found please call Patty 4287. 
LOST: Black leather hockey skates with a piece of yellow tape inside each skate. Left in the south dining hall's coat rack area. Ph 3171. 
LOST: Two keys with no. 623 on them. Penny's key chain. Call Joe 6795. 
FOUND: One Ford key on a Kawasaki key chain in the Huddle. Joe, 6795. 
LOST: Agold, round monogram pen with the intials ABM. If found please call 
ie at SMC 4644. 

FOUND: Two keys on the snow bank of the ACC near the tennis courts. May claim at the Obnrver office. 
FOR SALE 
Pioneer CT-4141A Tape Deack; KLH17X speakers. Retail $430; will sell for $200. Call Terry 3014. 
FULL COLOR COITON BOWL PIC­TURES AVAILABLE NOW. CALL 8982. 
'75 Silver Camaro. Terrific buy. Cala Nala 272-m42. 
FOR SALE: ND FIGHT SONG AUTO· MOBILE HORN . CONTACT KATHY 284-4385 FOR INFO. 
Vivitar zoom lens. 85-205 mm Minolta Mount. $130. Russ 288-2069. 
WANTED 
Home to DC for break? The Washington Alumni club needs you at a party. Call Melanie 6892. 
Need ride to Evansville. Will share-expenses. Jim, 2187. 
Need ride to NYC area. Can leave Thursday afternoon. Call Irene (6733) or Janet (1364). 
Need a ride to Colorado during break. Call Max at 510. Call Max at 3510. 
Need ride to DC area after Emil. Bob, 8643. 
Wow-even time is measured in terms of Emil. 
Need ride to Syracuse area for break. Call 7965. 
Ride needed to NY state area for spring braek. Call Sharon 4-1-4276. 
Need ride to Los Angeles over break. Call Debbie 8485. 
Need ride to the Boston area on Mar. 17. Wi II share expenses and driving. Call Tony at 1436. 
Two students need ride to Fort Meyers , Fla. or vicinity for break. Will share driving and expenses. Call Brian at 1153. 
Need ride for three to the Big Apple, New York City, for break. We can't afford the train so call Tom, Doug or John at 3414. 
Need ride to Albuquerque, New Mexico for break. Will share driving and expenses. Call Debbie at 4-1-4898. 
Need ride to Detroit for break. Leaving March 17. Also need ride back to N D on March 27. Call Katie -6751. 
Need ride to Pittsburgh area for break. Will share driving and expenses. Call Rich 8278 after 11 pm. 
Need ride to and from Boston-Providence area for break. Will pay $$$. Call Maryanne 4-4762. 
Need ride to Toledo on March 17. Will pay. Kim, 7856. 
Need ride to New York March 17. Will share driving and$$$$$. Please call Tom at 3828. 
Need ride to ZNorthern Jersey for break. Call Kathy at 1264. 
Going to Boston? Need ride, will apy expenses. Call Ann 6751. 
Need ride to Houston for break. Call Cathy 4-1-4559. 
Two people need ride to DC area for break. Will help with expenses. Can leave Thursday afternoon. Call 8525 or 2172 after 11 pm. 
Need one or two rides for spring break to downstate NY (1-BOor 1-84). Coleen 7815. 
Need ride to Texas: Dallas, Houston, etc. Share driving and expenses. 2747. 
Need ride to Ft. Lauderdale or Pompano Beach area for break. Will share dnving and expenses. SOS! Call Jack (6706). 
NEED: Ride to Boston for two people. Share driving and expenses. Call 5236 (SMC). 
Need ride to St. Louis. Will share driving and expenses; call ~arry after sic at 232­4499. 
Ride needed to Ft. Lauderdale for Spring Break. John, 1107. 
Two girls need ride to O'Hare -Thurs. March 16, between 3 and 6. Call Julie (1675) or Maria (1318). 
Ride needed to Tampa-Clearwater area or North Jersey for break. Willing to share driving and exrenses. Can leave March 
17. Please cal Rob 1145. 
NEED RIDE TO CINCINNATI FOR BREAK. CALL TINA AT 4-1-4155 
Two SMC girls looking for ride to Columbus Ohio Mar. 17. Will share expenses. Call Carol, 4-1-4868. 
Desperately need ride from N D to So. Bend at midnight. Will apy. Call 233-7949. 
Stage managers and stage crew for student players production of Neil Sim­on's Come Blow Your Horn (performance April 20, 21, 28 and 2~ in the Nazz). Meeting for anyone mterested 8:30 Wednesday night, LaFortune Rathskeller or call Maureen 6856. 
PERSONALS 
Grizz Nellist for UMOC. 
Tom Bainey-$ 
Alias "Disco Kid" -HAl The savageness of our . fever. is beyond children! Dance on till ya die.... 
V.C."Bongos" 
Alcohol awareness week is April 6-10. 
This is for you Kay M. and .Donna L.! 
Annabella P. Is the bast roommate a girl could aver want. Thanx, sweetie. 


CLASSIFIED 
Let's celebrate! Only three more issues and P.5 will no longer be sports editor. The cliche' index Is sure to drop dramatically! 
You can make us a winner -Vote experince! Tuohy, Wixted, Mullaney student body officers. 
Vote Darragh Carden and the pope. It is part of the plan. 
Haircuts, trims, styles, CHEAP!! SMC Betty, 4530. 
Play ping pong at the ping pong parrlor....836 Portage. $1.50 per person. per hour. We furnish everything but your opponent. Bring apartner and show your stuff. Mon-Fri, 5:00pm -10pm, Sat and Sun, 10:00 am to 10:00 pm. Phone 234-1999. 
ONE THOUSAND EIGHT HUNDRED AND NINETY PEOPLE CANNOT BE WRONG. THANKS MIKE AND JAYNE. 
YOU ARE THE BEST! FROM ALL OF US 
Barb, Anita, Annie and Jenni: 1didn't mean to break your window. I guess I just got excited. The photogenic vandal 
Lori, Mary Lynn, Jody, Mary Beth and Omaha: Thank you for the wonderful time at the sophomore formal. Sincerely, the studs from Grace 
Mal, 
1give up...You drive a hard barga1n! How about adate to Wendy's.... Huddle.. .. .. South Dining Hall? 
Topwop 
AD8 
Katie-Is it true that all N D men are dwarfs? A "short" person 
Need ride to Carroll Hall for Spring break. Will share driving and expenses. Call Bruce (in his room). 
The knights of Carroll will present a film entitled "The Mad Flight of Ron Haynes." It is a zany adventure about a young philo major who tries to see all his friends on campus in one night. A cast of . thousands. 
Jeff. 
I will always glow so bright as long as I am with ou! Have a super time in Denver. 
Joan 
We thank all of our friends who showed such deep faith and dedication in working for the Schlateger-Rizzo ticket. The experience of having met such beautiful people makes up for any loss. Thanks, and keep in touch. 
Love, Mike and Jayne 
Lenten confessions heard Monday thru Saturday at Sacred Heart beginning at 
7:00 pm. Anyone wishing to make an appointment for confession at a different time may phone Campus Ministry at 6536 or 3820. 
To Pam, Vicki, M.B., Emil, Mike, Sean, BJ, Kathleen and Karen ...Thanks for making our 21st full of surprises. 
Pat and Claudia PS: Thanks 3rd floor McCandles for all your help. 
Trace, Tyler and Katie, Thanks for the extra special touch on 


Free three mo old puppy (part boxer). Call 272-2520 after 3 pm. 
At their last sermon, this group drew a line six blocks long ....until someone took their chalk away. Happiest congratula­TIONS Bill Faiella, Jack Donahue, Tom Garten and Bob Bozek. 
B.B. 
Admirer, 
The merger must be now or ·never because our assets are depreciating with each passing day. 
The Banker 
KM and DA Thanks alot, kids. The little Simp 
Mike Thomas ­
Some of my "good luck" must have warn off in 2 years. I enjoyed the Bengals, tho--Happy Belated Birthday. 
Karen 
Thanks to all .... May I never dissapoint you. Leta 
PMFTG· You still have nice legs. How about a game of raquetball? 

by Ray O'Brien  Walt Rogers in  one  of the  more  first  two stanzas.  Devine scored  evening,  Eric  Schmitt  used  a  The contest  was  between Raich's  
Sports Writer  classic battles of the night.  Ricci.  with a couple of jabs in the final  powerful left jab to the head of Tom  roundabout  punches  and  Caira's  
taking the fight  to  his opponent,  round  which  was  all  that  was  Plouff to  score  points in the 175  strong leading jabs.  Caira got in  
The 47th Annual Bengal  Bouts  used  a  long left jab  to  set  up  a  needed  to  take  the  unanimous  pound weight class.  Schmitt's jab  first  licks  with  a  combination  to  
came  to a successful close Friday  staggering  right  that  met  with  decision.  opened a cut on Plouff's lip in the  Raich's head that sent him reeling  
night  as  7,891  boisterous  boxing  Roger's nose several times during  The biggest crowd pleaser of the  first round and then drew a stream  to the canvas.  This only served to  
fans saw some boxing, fighting and  the fight. Ricci did the real damage  night  came  in  the  168 pound  of  blood  from  the  nose  in  the  heighten the action as Raich came  
wrestling in many evenly contested  in the third round as his powerful  idvision where  Kevin  Smith  out­ second stanza.  By the third round  out flailing in his last round bid but  
matches at the ACC.  right sent Rogers to the canvas but  pounded TerryRogersto take a hard  Schmitts perpetual jabs to the face  Caira hung on by counter punching  
In stylish fashion,  Boxing Club  the Morrisey resident never  stop­ earned  unanimous  decision.  left his opponent  a  bloody  mess  his way to a split decision.  
president  Dan  "Danny  Boy"  ped coming  as  the crowd  roared  Rogers struck first with  a jarring  with the bell saving this bout from  In the premier fight of the night  
Romano showed how it is supposed  their approval at the fight's end.  left but Smith countered wie1 a left  becoming a TKO.  heavyweight gridders  Pat  Boggs  
to be done using a quick left jab to neutralize Joe Viola's attack. Romamo never stopped dancing and used the left jab to set up a more powerful right that drew blood from Viola's nose late in the fight as he captured the 120 pound title. Not to be outdone by his older brother. sophomore Rocky Romano outlasted opponent Darryl Reyes to take the 125 pound weight division. The River Forest. Illinois native  One fight that did not get rave revues from the crowd was in the 147 pound division where Mike Murphy met Pat O'Connell. O'Connell, a stylist. and Murphy, a brawler. did nothing to talk about in the first round with the exception of a seemingly low blow by Murphy that had little effect on the fight. O'Connell's jabs scored points in the second round of this bullfight and found their target again in the final round but Murphy got in the  that put Rogers on the seat of his pants for the mandatory eight count. It seemed a sure bet that one of these fighters would not be around for the final bell as both fighters stood toe to toe looking for the KO punch. Smith drew a river of blood from the nose of Rogers midway through the second round. A bloody Rogers came out looking for the knockout in the last round but to no avail. In the bloodiest battle of the  In a closely fought battle Neal Elattrache punched his way to a unanimous decision and the 185 pound division title. Jeff Bartlett scored first with a strong left but from their on out Elattrache came 01,1t the better in the exchanges sporting a quick jab that racked up points. After a rather quiet first round between Nick Raich and Jeff Caira this 195 pound match flared up.  and Scott Zettek pounded it out. Zettek's longer reach found the shorter Boggs leaning into a right in the first round. With Boggs on the ropes, Zettek unleashed a wild flurry but could not put his oppon­ent away. Boggs came back strong in the last two rounds with a few lethal flurries to Zettek's head but the sophomore from Sorin hung on to capture the unanimous decision ending this year's Bengal Bout classic.  
exchanged flurries  with  Reyes  in  more solid blows with a right hook  
the first two rounds but  came  on  which earned him  a  contraversial  
strong in the final  stanza flooring  split decision.  
Reyes with a solid right and using  One of the more active fights of  
the  right again  to  bring  on  the  the night followed in the 152 pound  
standing eight  count right before  finals  between  veterans  John  
the bell.  Talbot and Walt Strausser.  These  
J.P.  Holbrook  relied  on  a  first  seniors delighted  the crowd with  
strong round and sharper style to  their  "stand  up  and  punch  'em  
outpoint Doug Borgatti for the 130  out" style.  The first  two rounds  
pound crown.  Holbrook used his  saw Talbot connecting first follow­ 
longer reach with a quick left jab at  ed by a viscious flurry by Strausser.  
the outset but Borgatti came  back  Strausser, a native of Philadelphia.  
in the second round to land a flurry  knew  only  one  direction-straight  
to his opponent face.  Both fighters  ahead  -as he relentlessly pursued  
punched it out toe to toe at the end  his opponent earning him the split  
as  Holbrook  was  awarded  the  decision.  
unanimous decision.  In  the  battle  for  the  bragging  
In another even  match-up. Rick  rights of Mishawaka. Joe "Lefty"  
Erwin counterpunched his way  to  Cooler used  an  awesome  round­ 
the 137 pound title, but not before  houser to take a  unanimous deci­ 
feeling  the  effect  of  Brian  sion from Steve Mynsberge in the  
Diamond's  flashing  right  cross.  157 pound weight class.  Cooler  
The Stanford junior scored with the  was. all over his opponent through­ 
right to Erwin's head to open the  out  the  fight dishing  out  all  he  
fight and finished with a flurry but  could but Mynsberge sustained the  
in  between  Erwin's  countering  punishment as to not become the  
right  dominated  the  fight giving  first knock out victim of the night.  
the Alumni resident  a  unanimous  In one of the less spine chilling  
decision.  fights  of the  night,  Jim  Devine  
The  final  of  the  142 pound  defeated John Cotter  to  take the  
weightclass looked like a rerun of  162 pound division trophy.  Much  
'.  last year's title fight as Tony Ricci earned a unanimoas decision over .  to the dismay of the crowd, neither {ighter . did much damage in the  Ben~al Bout donations reached a record breaking total as 16 549 spectators attended the thtee d affa.r. [Photo by john Calcutt] _ ' ' . ay  


t 
Monday, March 13, 1978
8 
the observer 

Near perfect Irish crush Houston 
by Paul Stevenson However, at this key moment, shooting performance to 59 percent 
Sports Editor Notre Dame kept their composure in the second half, 58 percent for 
and proceeded to rattle off the final the game. Meanwhile, Houston Tulsa -The Notre Dame basket­six points before the buzzer. Bill shot 44 percent in the second 20 ball team, displaying unbelievable Laimbeer's two free throws, and minutes, 47 percent for the game. quickness against a tough Houston back-to-hack layups by Branning The Irish boasted five players in defense, totally dominated the and Williams gave Notre Dame a double figures. Laimbeer finisthed Cougars yesterday afternoon, 47-32 halftime edge. with a career-high of 20 points, rambling to a 100-77 triumph at In the first half, Notre Dame shot followed by Williams with 19. Oral Roberts University's Mabee 57 percent from the field while the Branning and Tripucka each Center. Cougars found the range of 52 chipped in 14 markers, while 
"It is very evident that we were percent. Williams paced the Irish Batton contributed 12. never in the ballgame," a dejected to their comfortable first half lead Laimbeer was also the leading head coach Guy Lewis commented. with twelve markers, while Laim­rebounder in the game. hauling in "I don't know who those people are beer added eight. nine caroms. Batton backed the that say Notre Dame is big and Mike Schultz led the Houston sophomore center with six. slow, because I sure didn't see attack with eight points in the first Kenneth Williams led Houston anyone on their team that was 20 minutes of action. Kenneth with 17 points, while Schultz added slow. Notre Dame is big and strong Williams chipped in five. 16 and Cecil Rose chipped in 14. and fast.'' Notre Dame maintained their While Houston was known for 
The Irish wasted no time jump­hardcourt domination in the second their run and gun style of play, it ing out to a quick lead as Duck with Tripucka connecting on a pair was the Irish who used their Williams pumped one in from the of free throws to give the Irish a quickness to hit the century mark. sitle to open the game's scoring. 49-32 lead. while holding the Cougars to a 77 Rich Branning followed with a With 10:57 remaining in the point output. well below their layup off a feed from Kelly Tri­clash, Laimbeer's slam dunk gave seasonal average of 93. pucka to give Notre Dame a 4-0 Notre Dame a 69-48 advantage. "I thought for us to win the lead. From that point, the Irish However, the Toledo, Ohio native ballgame. we had to break their never looked back. was fouled by Kenneth Williams as press." Phelps reflected. "We had 
Starting at the 17:40 mark of the well as being called for a techincal to control the tempo of the game. opening period of play, Digger for hanging on the rim. Laimbeer's This was probably the best we've Phelps' cagers outscored their free throw, and two technical played as a team with the exception 
opponents 14 to 2 over the next five tosses by Kenneth Williams of the UCLA game out there." Rich Branning's efficient ball handling and 14 point perfor­minutes giving Notre Dame a · brought the score to 70-50. Williams echoed his coach's mance earned him the MVP award in yesterday's 100-77 commanding 22-7 advantage. Notre Dame held their largest sentiments stressing. "It was a domination of Houston. Although the Irish substituted lead at two points during the great team effort. The main thing 
"There's an emotional thing about Tigers. 86-79, in double over-time
freely, they never lost their conti­second half. With 5:39 left in the we had to do to break their press being in the playoffs. knowing if 
yesterday to earn the right to playnuity throughout the contest, game, Branning's jumper from the 
was get the ball inbounds. We you lose. you are out for good." Notre Dame.Regardless of what quintet was in right side put Notre Dame up by knew that once we got the ball in, Yes. Notre Dame played excep­Irish Items: While Houston'saction, the level of performance 27, 87-60. Again, with 47 seconds their defensive style is such that tionally well. Every player seemed opponents have averaged 23 turn­remained at a peak. remaining in the contest a three­they drop off of you. Overall. we to fit well into the game plan. with overs a game. the Irish suffered
With only 48 seconds remaining point play by Gill Salinas gave the just played aggressively." 
the entire team working together as only 12. most of which came in thebefore intermission, two free Irish a 100-73 lead. Houston's Laimbeer played one of the best a unit. 
closing minutes. Notre Dame

throws by Cedric Fears cut Notre Kenneth Williams hit a jumper games of his career and knew what The Irish must now prepare for outrebounded the Cougars 37-30.Dame's lead to nine points, 41-32. with two seconds left in the game to 
had to be done before the tipoff. the Regional semi-finals against Thjs contest marked the first time The Irish had led by as much as 17 end the scoring, 100-77. "We played a real good game the University of Utah this Friday. in which Laimbeer has led the Irish points throughout the half. Notre Dame improved their today," Laimbeer stated. Utah defeated the Missourri in scoring this season. 
Bengal finals boast close matches 


