

.---~~-----~-------:-~-----------------
Gatewood speaks on black athlete 
of the black in athletics. senior years. He is presently a
by Phil Cacldey out that NFL football teams make 
Gatewood's talk, given to a small vice-president of-Black Mutual a season just through
Senior Staff Reporter $5 million 
crowd in the Library Auditorium, Network, a radio network based in television contracts. 
highlighted a section of the week­Arlington, VA.
Former football star Torn Gate­Gatewood used tape recordings
long Black Cultural Arts Festival The talk began with some short
wood returned to Notre Dame last of radio sports shows he had made 
Friday night and spoke on the role devoted to sports. film clips of Gatewood in action in on the subject to present interviews A 1972 graduate of ND, Gate­the Northwestern and Purdue 
with a former newspaper editor wood was captain of the football games during the 1970 football from Orlando who claimed that 
team in his senior year, and an season. The main part of the talk Loudd was the object of a conspir­All-American end in his junior and was a series of stories about acy by the Orlando Sheriff's Office 
little-known black athletes and 
and Orlando's major newspaper. 
sports personalities. 
Loudd, who is presently serving 
"For years the stigma has been 
time in prison on drug charges. was 
that blacks can't use the grey 
convicted on testimony from a 
matter. We can sweat and work 
sheriff's assistant who posed as an 
and play, but we can't think," 
investor offering to split the WFL 
Gatewood observed. He said evi­
Orlando franchise with Loudd,
dence of this comes from recent 
Gatewood stated. He said the undercover agent demanded that Loudd obtain drugs for him if Loudd want~d financial support. 
In spite of the notoriety of the clr. • incident, national news services
.• '"d. have never ptcked up the story . Gatewood said, "Nothing has come to the fore on this," he stated.
Albee ~~...,~....~ 
Gatewood also spoke on black ......,.~~~~~~~~..........-SIJ<tp~,. [Continued on page 2] 

opens SLF 
The Sophomore Literary Festival opened last night with playwright Edward Albee reading excerpts from his works. Albee spoke before a capacity crowd at Wash­ington Hall. small, explains he is incomplete; he .......11111111.........._ 
Being a playwright is "not a has no capacity for feeling, and that normal thing," the author began, he would do anything for money and he then explained how he because he has no talents. became one. "I decided at the age The play ends, Albee explained, and that "sometimes words have of six that I was a writer, not that I just before the man discovers that to be listened to and not watched." would become one," and began to his twin had been adopted by a In Box, no characters appear on write poetry. This he did until the family who did not care for him, stage; only a dim outline of a cube age of 26, when he realized that, by and had dismembered him. appears on stage while the audi­writing poetry, he "wasn't his own The author then read a scene ence listens to a voice. man.'' from A Delicate Balance, where an In a question and answer period 

Albee ha.s also tried writing two old man named Tobias tells his wife following the readings, Albee novels, 1200 and 800 pages long, Agnes about a cat he once had as a explained that when he thinks of an which he labeled "the two worst boy. ., idea for a play, he "lets it slowly novels ever written by an American "She was an old alley cat," he evolve" in his subconscience. "I teenager.'' tells her. And one day he realized always have two or three plays in 
He began writing plays when he the cat no longer liked him. After my head in varying degrees of was 29, he said and has completed unsuccessfully trying to force the completeness that I am always 18 plays in the past 18 years. The cat to regain her old feelings for thinking about," he said. Only Zoo Story, his first play, was also him, he had her put to sleep. when the play develops completely the first work from which he read. Tobias recalls that he resented does he write it down, he explain­
The playwright related the story being judged and betrayed by his ed, and ''I rely on the tempo I have of Jerry and the dog, a scene where pet, and tries to justify his having set for myself -to write one play a 

EDWARD ALBEE Jerry "forced to make contact" her killed. What else could he have year." with another person, tells a man in done, he reasons. When asked which playwrights Central Park about a dog, "a black After reading a scene from All he admires the most, Albee con-. 
monster of a beast," that he tried Over, a play in which a man's wife eluded his presentation by answer­unsuccessfully to befriend. and mistress, while waiting for the ing, ''my favorite living playwright From his comedy The American man to die, discuss their future of course, is me." Dream, Albee read a scene in plans, Albee asked the audience to Albee's works depict the ills of 

Ryan views new aid 
as far from a reality 
which a "dislocated young man" close their eyes while he read a contemporary society. His themes tells his sad history to a lonely old one-act play entitled Box. include the condemnation of com­by Bob Varettoni public or private schools, are woman. The man, an identical twin He explained that he was placency, cruelty ,emasculation, as Senior Staff Reporter entitled to these things on their separated from his brother when "extremely interested in words" [Continued on page 2]
own," McCauslin said. ',',The law is President Carter's proposal to the same for everyone. provide $1.46 billion in new aid to 
"This , or any plan that raises college students is still a long way the level of income eligible for aid,from a reality, according to Bro. 
would definitely be of some value,Kieran Ryan, Notre Dame's assis­especially at Notre Dame," she tant vice-president for Business added. 

Affairs. Stanford-Lewis captur­According to the proposal, $1 ed the Best Booth
"You have to consider that it's 

billion of the $1.46 billion increase award at Mardi Grasonly a proposal. Even if it's passed, would go to the $2.2 billion Basic Sat. night. Other win­it still has to be funded by Education Opportunity Grant pro­ners were:Congress," Rvan said. 
gram (BEOG). Also, $327 million Special Effects: Holy"In the past, many proposals would be added to the $540 million Cross-Morrissey
that have been passed have not 
Guaranteed Student Loan Committee Award: TIE been funded," June McCauslin, 
Program. Alumni-Regina,
director of the ND Financial Aid 
Fisher-Augusta
Ryan said he felt the increase toOffice, noted. ''The proposed legis­

Most Original Booth:
the BEOG program "would notlation would go into effect in the 

Badin-Howard
have any large impact at Notre1979-80 school year, and that's a 

Best Design: LeMans­
Dame." "This would effect muchlong way off," she added. 

Gracefewer students than the Guaran­
Best Structure: Zahm­

Carter said Wednesday that teed Loan aspect," he said. more than five million college McCindless 
McCauslin noted that about 25 
Best Use of Theme:

students could get federal aid in percent of the ND students now
the fall of 1979, an increase of at Farley-Holy Cross 
receive government loans. "I just

least two million students. His Best Art Work: Breen­
hope that Congress will be able to

proposal includes a plan to provi_de Phillips-St. Ed's 
fund the president's proposal,"

subsidized loans to students wtth [Photo by Beth Cutter]
she said. "-Every little bit helps."

family incomes as high as $45,000. ' Regardless of whether Carter's
Although a private school such 
proposal will eventually go into as ND or SMC does not receive effect, the proposal will have nodirect federal aid, the proposed aid effect on tuition costs, Ryan said. 
would go to the students not to the "Tuition is fixed by our opera­schools. In this way, McCauslin ting costs," he said. "For example,said, ND and SMC students would our wage increases this year havebe as eligible for these loans as any been unprecedented and this is the student from a non-private school. 
kind of thing that affects tuition." 
"Students, whether they go to the observer Mondav, Februarv 13, 1978 
News Briefs____....,.. 

t::::=::::::=::::::=::::::=::::::=::::::=::::::=::::::=::::::=:::::::::: Worid 
Trudeau's popularity down 
OTTAWA -Prime Minister Pierre Elliott Trudeau, his popularity waning because of Canada's economic and political woes, may call an election by summer before his government loses more popular support. Trudeau's Liberal Party government is in trouble. According to Gallup polls for 1977, public backing of the Liberals crested at 51 percent in June but dropped to 42 percent in December, when the last sampling was taken. By law, Trudeau need not call an election for the 282-seat House of Commons until 
1979. But, Liberal leaders believe their fortunes could grow worse with time and say they expect a June election. 

~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::National 
State o_f emergency in LA 
WS ANGELES -More rain pounded already storm-battered canyons and hillsides in the Los Angeles area yesterday, and Mayor Tom Bradley declared a state of emergency in the city. Bradley said the vicious storm which struck the area Friday caused an estimated $22.6 million damage, destroyed five homes and severely damaged 120 others. He said the emergency declaration would allow homeowners and the city to apply for "appropriate state and federal assistance." 

ERA backers still hoping 
WASHINGTON -Supporters of the Equal Rights Amendment are looking for a psychological lift following setbacks in South Carolina and Virginia, while opponents are hoping they can stall the ratification process for another year. Six years after Congress approved the ERA, the amendment is still three states short of the 
38 needed for ratification. And with the March 22, 1979, expiration date little more than a year away, the opponents believe time is on their side. Thirty-five states have approved the amendment since 1972, when it cleared Congress. Idaho, Tennessee and Nebraska have sought to rescind their ratification votes, but the Justice Department said that the decisions are not 
rescindable 


WEATHER 
There is an 80 percent chance of snow today with some accumulation possible. Highs in the upper 20s. There is a 70 

percent chance of light  snow  tonight.  Lows  near  20.  Cloudy  
tomorrow with highs in the mid 20s.  
On Campus Today  _____.  

12:15 pm 4:30pm 5 pm 
7 pm 8 pm 
_  
mass every day during griffin, Iafortune ballroom.  lent,  celebrated  by  fr.  
lecture series, james danehy, "retirement academe: changing perspectives", haggar hall.  in  

french club meeting, prof. robert betchove speaking, faculty dining rm., south dining hall. meeting, alpha phi omega, basement keenan hall lecture, karl shapiro, sophomore literary festival, 
washington hall. 

*The Observer 
Night Editor: Rosemary Mills Asst. Night Editor: Sandy Colson Layout Staff: Tom Behney, Bill Devitt, Jerry Jarzynke, ,Anne Lorenz, Sue Wuetcher, John Cassidy, Tom Dowd Features Laout: Frank Lav­rino Sports Layout: Paul Steven­son Typists: Mark Rust, Anne Giere, Carol Erkmann, Steve Odland Night Controller: Mardi Nevin Day Editor: Bob Bernoski Copy Reader: Debbie Dahr­ling Ad Layout: Rob Civitello d'Halita Photographer: John Calcutt 
The Observer Is published Mon­dey through Frldey except during exem end nation periods. The Observer Is published by the students of Notre Deme end Selnt Mery's College. Subscriptions mey be purchesed for S20 per yeer cs 1 o per semester) from The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Deme, lndlene 46556. S.cond cteu postege peld, Notre Deme, tndlene, 46556. 
The Observer Is e member of the Asaocteted Preu. All repro­dudlon righta ere reaerved. 


Gatewood speaks on sports bias 
[Continued from page 1] women in sports. He played a tape of an interview with Rachel Robin­son, the wife of Jackie Robinson, who was the first black baseball player to enter the major leagues. He additionally outlined the career of Lucia Harris, a women's basketball player from Delta State, who was drafted in 1976 by the New Orleans Jazz. Gatewood said she turned down the offer because 

''she  decided  they  were  only  
making a token gestu re."  
The  final  portion  of  the  talk  

focused on "other black people who suffer," in particular, blacks in South Africa who are subject to the policy of apartheid, legalized separation of the races. 
''The American slave experience doesn't measure up an ounce to what apartheid is in South Africa today," Gatewood said. He played a long series of interviews of organizers of a boycott against 
U.S. accused of taking sides 

[Continued from page 4] 
brought the proposal to 
Washington. 

Brushing aside U.S. complaints that he had not been forthright over the settlement issue, Begin said the plan Carter saw "included a specific reference to the continuous existence of the settlements within a U.N. zone" and protected by Israeli troops. 
Carter expressed "no reserva­tions whatsoever'' about the settle­ments, Begin said, reading the cabinet statement. 
He apparently referred to settle­ments in the occupied Sinai desert, where Israeli radio reported yester­day that the government had ordered a halt to its settlement expansion program. Israel launched the crash program last month to boost the population of the 20 existing Sinai villages during negotiations with Egypt. 
Israeli newspapers also reported Sunday that civilian settlers were preparing to move into a new West Bank site set up recently by the army at Karnei Shomron, on the Nablus-Tel Aviv road. Israel has about 40 settlements in the West Bank. 
Albee opens SLF 
[continued from page 1] well as distorted love, alienation and sin~ter, neurotic women. He was given the Foreign Press Association Award in 1961 for The Zoo Story and he won the New York Critics Circle Award, the Tony Award and the Foreign Press 
Association Award for Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf? in 1963-64. 
The Sophomore Literary Festi­val, which is dedicated this year to Professor and Mrs. Ernest San­deen, will continue tonight at 8 in Washington Hall with the appear­ance of poet Karl Shapiro. 

PREPARE FOR: 



-T·DIT·LIIT· 


•·IDT·IIT·IIT 
-I.II.III·ECF•·REI·· 
NATL DDITAL BOARDS • NURSING BOARDS 
FleldMe .....-.......
...........•.".,.,..,, 
For ................ call: 




Jati1 
~:aUfQette .:::::::::.. 
4B1!BI 

taT INIIJ'MATION 
INq.uaTS IlNCE JU8 
SeniDg B1oo111iDP»B. ladlmiPO]II, South 
Bend For lDcattonl m· other .due. 
Outside N.Y. Stlti Only CAll Tili.lHE: -223-1112 c.tlrllll MaJor UlCltlll TonntD, ,_.ltlclllldl.leiM, lwl~ 
"''lliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii.MCAT, DA T, and LSAT dassesiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii'il' 
now forming. 

South African participation in American sports tournaments, par­ticularly tennis tournaments. 
"Why should South African ath­letes be allowed to compete in America today, take home Ameri­can money and then shackle black people in South Africa?" Gatewood asked. 
''At least in America there is an avenue to release our frustration. 
· The system dictates to blacks what to do. But at least certain blacks are allowed to achieve economic parity with whites. In South Africa, there is no such thing. Blacks are 
, · 
' 
Ashe has to be given the title of 'honorary white' to compete," Gatewood explained. 
Gatewood said he was not speak­ing bitterly, but rather was simply trying to expose the situation in South Africa. "Education is not books--it's exposure to the world," he added. 
Summing up his talk, Gatewood stated, "If we are to succeed as black people, we have to get at the power base. And the color that keeps coming up is green. We need black managers and coaches, but why not a black owner, why not a 


The rest 1s up to you!! 
NOTRE DAME-SAINT MARY'S THEATRE 'OUR SECOND SCENE' AUDITIONS 
/ 

Needed: Actors, technicians, crew members, 
stage managers, etc. for·our alternative 
season of plays. 
A MAN FOR ALL SEASONS by Robert Bolt Feb. 13 & 14--7 p.m.--Rm. 228 Moreau (SMC) 
LES PARENTS TERRIBLES by Jean Cocteau 
Feb. 14 & 15--7 p.m.--O'Laughlin Aud. (lobby) 
THE MADMAN AND THE NUN by S.l. 
Witkiewicz Feb. 1'8 & 19--11 a.m.--O'Laughlin Aud. (lobby) 
Open to all ND-SMC students 
Fourth Annual 

saturday18 February 
at the 



Centurx Center 
to the 

$12.00 per couple includes: 4 FREE DRINKS AND LIVE ENTERTAINMENT BY 
Jim Judge and the Jurv 
TICKETS AT THE DINING HALLS spon"ored by ____...adies and Knights of Columbus----11 

Midshipman Third Class Edmond Feeks received the Navy Achievement Medal at the recent Navy ROTC change of command ceremony. [Navy ROTC photo] 



Navy ROTC changes command 
by John Dunbar Midshipman First Class Tom Baldy, received the battalion's Command of Notre Dame's Navy Honor Company streamer. The ROTC Battalion changed hands in award is based upon the company's an awards ceremony last W ednes­performance in drill competition, day night in the ACC. Acting physical fitness tests. intra­Battalion Commander Dave company flag football. and general Simmens. taking over for injured participation in battalion activities. Battalion (:.0. Terry Heidkamp, Achievement Stars were also passed the unit's flag to Midship­passed out to 52 of the unit's 220 man Second Class Randall Wittry. midshipmen. Stars are given to who will lead the student battalion those who attain a 3.25 GPA and next year. <,how both good physical fitness Company D. commanded by and military aptitude. The awards 
UMW rejects proposals • 
' 


plans to continue talks 
W ASIDNGTON [AP] -The bar­gaining council of the United Mine Workers (UMW) union overwhelm­ingly rejected a proposed settle­ment of the nationwide coal strike yesterday. ordering President Arnold Miller to commence new negotiations with the soft coal industry. 
The action came in the 69th day of the strike, one day after the Carter administration ordered the plans drawn up for emergency movement of coal to areas running critically short of fuel needed to produce electric power. 
Actually, yesterday's action was only a reaffirmation of the council's initial rejection of the three-year pact last Friday. At the time, the council conducted a straw vote, in which 33 of 36 members voted against the contract. Because Miller was not present for the session, the vote had to be formal­ized. 
The protracted coal strike by some 160,000 miners -the longest in the nations history -is threaten­ing some midwestern and Appalachian states with critical fuel shortages. 
It's just too bad," said a dejected Miller, who had refused to attend Friday's session in a protest over what he called pressure tactics by miners who massed in the lobby of the union's headquarters here, demanding that the pact be voted down. 
Miller, who had been pressing for approval of the contract offered by the Bituminous Coal Operators Association and signed last Mon­day, made little effort to conceal his feelings about the latest develop­ment. 
"I did not enumerate it, "he said, when asked to give the vote by which the council rejected the pact. 
"It doesn't mean anything any­way." 
Saturday, Miller had told The Associated Press in a telephone interview that he fears for his life. "I'm not going to present this contract to the council under the conditions of mob rule," he said at the time. 
Harrison Combs, general coun­sel of the UMW, said the contract 
., ••• , • .,.,.., _... ~ ... ·.. •.. • . .••J' 

was rejected by the 30-6 vote with three members of the 39-member council absent. 
Joseph Brennan, president ofthe BCOA. criticized the council's action on the pact, which had been described as fair by Labor Secre­tary L. Ray Marshall. 
"We are appalled at the action of the bargaining council in rejecting this agreement, which will make coal miners the highest paid in­dustrial workers, guarantee their health and retirement benefits, begin the process of restoring labor stability to the coalfields, and return productivity growth to the coal industry,"the statement said. 
UMW Vice-President Sam Church said wage provisions of the proposed contract appeared to be "generally acceptable"to the miners but they objected to provis­
were presented by the evening's 
guest 'speaker, retired Captain 
William MacLean, the assistant 
dean of the Law School and former 
unit commander. 
A special award was also presen­
ted to Midshipman Third Class 
Edmond Feeks. Feeks received the 
Navy Achievement Medal for his 
role as a member of a rescue team 
that plucked four boaters from 
rough waters after their boat 
capsized. The rescue took place last 
summer :luring a Naval Review 
held of the English coast honoring 
the United Kingdom's Silver 
Jubilee. 

Feeks. who served aboard the 
USS Francis Marian during a 
summer cruise. was given the 
medal by his father. Navy Captain 
Edmond Feeks. Feeks also 
received a written commendation 
from Vice Admiral W.L. 
McDonald, who complemented 
Feeks' "outstanding initiative and 
superior professional ability....in 
keeping with the highest traditions 
vf !he, United States Nav:J Service. 
sions dealing with disciplinary 
procedures and the health and 
retirement funds. 
The rejected contract would have 
given miners a 37 percent increase 
in income and benefits by 1981, 
including an increase in the hourly 
wage from $7.80 to $10.51. But 
opponents of the pact objected to 
several of its features, including a 
provision aimed at disciplining 
miners who participate in wildcat 
strikes. 

The Air Force ROTC Two Year Program 
Are you really as good as you Training to look us over (whilethink you are? we're looking you over) so youWant an opportunity to test your can decide if Air Force ROTC and capabilities? a commission as an Air Force If you are a college student with officer is for you. No obligation if 
two academic years remaining, you decide not to enroll in Air Force ROTC has an opportu­AFROTC. Summer field trainingnity for you! We'll pay your way positions are being filled right to and from a field training now!! encampment (somewhere in A­Contact Capt. Davis, Tel: 283­merica), pay your salary and 6634 or visit him on campus a1 
expenses while you are there, the Air Force ROTC offices. and give you six weeks at Field 
Air hn:e nTt~ Gafe\\•ay f• a Great \Yay ••f IJife 
Monday, February 13, 1978 the ObServer 

Grad student Parker seeks Democratic endorsement 
by Peggy McGuire Senior Staff Reporter 
J. Ned Parker will seek the District 8 Democratic Party's endorsement as candidate for representative to the Indiana State Legislature. Parker. a Notre Dame graduate student in American Government. will run against Patrick Bauer and Richard Doyle, the district's current representa­tives. Voters will select two candi­dates in the May 2 primary. 
"Anytime you're in a race against two incumbents it's going to be difficult,'' Parker stated. "We've made a lot of progress in the past two weeks, however, and the odds are narrowing very quick­ly.'' Parker announced his candi­dacy January 25. 
Parker said that in business­related areas, the two key issues of the campaign are the business inventory tax and the income tax phase-out. ''These two issues are currently under legislation in the House.'' Parker stated. 
"I would have to say that I am for the business inventory tax and in favor of removing the corporate gross income tax," the political hopeful contended. 
When asked for his position on the Indiana drinking law, Parker said that the issue would not be important in his campaign. "In Indiana, that particular piece of legislation is not of great concern,'' he stated. "Four years ago and again two years ago, proposals to lower the legal drinking age came before the House. The proposals were defeated soundly both times." 
"Indiana is a conservative state. The majority of the people here do not want to lower the drinking age.'' he continued. 
Parker, 27, is in his first year of graduate studies at Notre Dame. He is also a territory manager for Vel-Mac Distributors. He has been a South Bend ;.-esident the past five years and has worked on various campaigns and in several political groups for ten years. This is this first attempt for political office. 
SMC Gong Show planned 
Plans for a St. Patrick's l)ay Gong Show were announced at last week's meeting of St. Mary's Social Commission. The event will be held Saturday. Feb. 25,_from 9 
p.m. until 2 a.m. at Giuseppe's Restaurant on E. LaSalle St. in South Bend. An admission fee of $2 will cover· beer and entertainment for the evening. 
All students are invited to attend. and encouraged to partici­pate in the Gong Show, for which prizes of $50, $35, and $20 will be awarded to the three best acts. Any students interested in appearing in the Gong Show are urged to call Nan Murray at 4298 bv Feb. 12. 
Social Commission meetings are held each Wednesday at 6:15p.m. in the Social Commission office in the basement of Regina Hall. and new members are always welcome. 


. .. , ......... p.............
' • ... •·· • r.r. .,. ......._.""~--. .;:. .I"•J 'iJ~~ 
I . 


Saturday night's disco fashion show was the highlight of this year's Black Cultural Arts Festival. [Photo by John Calcutt] 
------~---~------~-~---­
40 killed 




Jet crashes while avoiding plow 
CRANBROOK* British Columbia [API -The pilot of a jet liner that crashed in flames killing 40 while trying to land in a snowstorm probably was trying to avoid hitting a snowplow on the runway, officials of Pacific Western Airlines said yesterday. 
The twin-engine Pacific Western Boeing 737 overshot the runway, slammed into a snowbank and broke apart Saturday. Seven aboard survived. 
Kees Fransbergen, the airline's assistant vice president for flight operations, said investigators did not know how or why the snowplow got on the runway in the path of the incoming jetliner. ­
"The indications are that the pilot did abort the landing to avoid that vehicle," Fransbergen said. 
Six passengers and a flight attendant, seated in the plane's tail section, survived, and were taken to Cranbrook District Hospital. Two were in critical condition yesterday. 
Brian Johnson, PWA public information director, had said ear­lier that the pilot was attempting to abort the landing in what he called an overshoot-"standard procedure when the captain is not satisfied that all is in order in the landing." 
Investigators from Air Transport Canada swarmed over the wreck­aile veaterday, and Alan Jay, Public Affairsofficer for ATC, said Investigators were studying tapes from the Boeing 737's voice recor­der and the local air radio opera­tor's office. 
He said small Canadian airports do not have air traffic control towers, so each incoming pilot 
The plane would have begun its descent on instruments, but the landing would have be~n made under visual flight rules dter the airliner broke through tlie cloud layer, Johnson said. 
Some low-grade radioactive material being carried op t,pe plane to a hospital was not fouqd in the wreckage, and a Geiger~ counter was brought to attempt fo locate the material, he said. The radioac­tivew material posed no danger because it was low-grade and packed well, Johnson said. 

CILA forms available 
CILA Members: Forms for the CILA retreat are available at the Campus Ministry office at Saint Mary's and the Student Activi­



. M.d t t• t•
1n 1 eas nego 1a 1ons 
JERUSALEM [API -Israel declared yesterday that the United States was "taking sides" in Mideast peace negotiations when Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance last week condemned Israeli settle­ments in occupied Arab lands. 
The accusation, contained in an Israeli cabinet resolution, was the sharpest one made so far against Washington by Prime Minister Menachem Begin's eight-month­old conservative government. 
The resolution, adopted unani­mously at the regular weekly cabinet meeting, was read after­ward by Begin to reporters. 
His government declared its "regret and protest" over Vance's remarks at a news conference Friday. Vance said Israeli settle­ments in occupied Arab territories "should not exist" and he support­ed a Palestinian homeland on land now controlled by Israel. 
Vance's comments .came less than a week after Egyptian Presi­dent Anwar Sadat held talks at Camp David, Md., with President Jimmy Carter to request increased American pressure on Israel for flexibility on the settlements and Palestinian questions. 
Egyptian-Israeli bilateral talks appear stalemated over those issues. Sadat, continuing his inter­national tour seeking support for Egypt's positions, called Sunday in a joint communique with Romanian President Nicolae Ceausescu for 
resumntion nf mnJtil~•..·~ 1 1\.r:-'---a
talks to prepare tor a reconvene Geneva peace conference. . The Israeli statement ~atd .the · state "stands by tts vtew 
that the settlement program is in 
full harmony with international law and that it had always been legal, legitimate and essential." The U.S. 
government has said repeatedly that the settlements are illegat and an obstacle to peace. 
The cabinet statement also implied the Carter administration had backed down from what Israel 
called its "moral support" of 
Israel's peace plan offering self-rule to the 1.1 million Palestinians 
It reiterated Israeli opposition to 
a Palestinian state linked to Jor­dan, saying such an entity even­tually would be "ruled by the terrorist organizations as the fron­tine spearhead of a potentiat mili­tary alignment of Jordan, Syria, Saudi Arabia and Iraq." 
Begin said Vance's comments were "in complete contradiction" to the stand taken by President 
Carter in December, when Begin 
ALL MAJOR SPORTS ON 7FT T.V. 
SHAKEY'S 



SUPER SU.PPER
FAMOUS 

5-7:30 

MON -TliES -WED Pizza-Chicken-: ·Spaghetti-Salad 



$21e6~~~~
All You Can Eat 


................................................................. 
i: • N[! a>uiiN~ i• :i SilL '21-llnB'' PA~ I 
ffB~~ ~4,25-FRi.,~ II· ~io \10i'f'CW5 AWiiLMt£ Nl111 FOL: I tnariA&tF..~ fYIU':Sf BE. ND tn!A ca L.tlw' ~UD&rr !.
I• ~.marl.: lh\1.1 & ~t ~tKViott wim 2vsiNftb &.PEP..'tJJti. • 1 .f.ArlfEAirtes,CAAD£~~mosrF£'2.J' AND wiw·tu" I II ~ftiN APAJdmbN A1 ~D~Nrl¥91i~OF¥ilf.,l!IMNS Ii 
I . DfADtf.Vt : Yf~R.'/ J7, tRJ~Y i
i ~fbf,·ctJ~~~-CALL 43/q I 51lC... i I i 
.................................................................. 
----~~~~~----------------------------------...;.
~ -·· ... ~-­
-2om 

$10.00 per couple includes: 
free drinks all evenin~ a botde of champagne a ham & cheese table 
TICKETS ON SALE in the LaFortune Lobby 12-4PM TODAY! 
Sunshine Celebration and Notre Dame Student Union presents 

and special guest STARZ 

monday feb 27 7:30 pm notre dame a.c.c. 
· All seats reserved: $7.00 floor festival style $7.oo reserved chair style $6.00 reserved bleacher 
on sale Monday at Student Ticket office at ACC• 
Monday, February 13, 1978 
the observer 
5 

ttFeats" keep on walkin' 


by jim edwards 

For the uninitiated, "Little Feat" is Perhaps most noticeable about the seeking "cross-over" audiences. The old age: "Well ya know that yer over the 
neither a typographical error nor a Richard album, at least to Little Feat aficionados, is result too often is the subjugation of the hill, when your mind makes a promise that Pryor concoction but rather a superb band the abse_nce of George. In the past he has jazz elements to repetitive disco-style your body can't fill." These scenes are of highly regarded professionals who defy been the "prime mover" of the group, rhythms. The Little Feat approach is given vitality by an appropriately !urchin~ strict musical categorization. They are doing most of the writing and singing as perhaps typical of their atypical approach rhythm. In "Keepin' Up with the Joneses, ' often tagged as a "musicians' band," a well as playing a stinging slide guitar and to music in general. the peril of the American dream is label which seems to fit as well as any. producing. On the new album George is The relative alisence of Mr. George is succinctly expressed: ''She spent all my They are not popular in the sense that solely responsible for one song and he not cause for despair. Too o~n when a money, Just like it's spare time." Barrere Peter Frampton is ''popular." Their fol­co-authored another. There is even a cut on leader as dominating or as outstanding as moans that he'd like to "Go on and hang lowing is likely to be ·listening to the this album where George does not play-­George allows the other members parity, the man who says the Best Things in life Grateful Dead, Robert Palmer or the the jazz-rock fusion piece "Day at the Dog the result is disasterous. A classic example are for free." Allman Brothers. They are not a "hype" Races". This piece differs from most is Credence Clearwater Revival's John 
Throughout the album the music isband such as Kiss;~or· representatives of a "fusion" work in that it approaches fusion Fogerty and the band's album .Mardi Gras. 
anchored by the steaming rhythm sectionsocial phenomenon which manifests itself from the rock perspective. Fusion has described by one major critic as the-worst of Messrs. Gradney, Hayward and Clay­by reveling in the scatological, a Ia the Sex largely been the domain of jazz artists album ever by a major rock band. This is ton, arid is augmented by the punctuatingPistols. Instead they are the possessors of a 
most assuredly .not the case .1ere: the horn charts of the Tower of Power homgenuine musical integrity wedded to what remainaing members of the band dazzle section. Making cameo appearances areband member Lowell George calls "an one with their skill. Bill Payne's shining "Skunk" Baxter, Mike McDonald, andattitude of trying to do what's right and a keyboard work is an example of the Patrick Simmons, no slouches in anyone'sdesire to leave out what ain't right and a abilities of the rest of the band. 
book. However not all is churning guitarhope of trying to inspire the now and the Payne and Barrere did most of the and keyboard interplay; the band shows its get down." writing, and their writing is practically quiet side on "Missin' You", an acousticThe offspring of this marriage is the equal in stature to George's (and that is number which recalls to mind "Roll Urn"Feat's" sixth album, Time Loves A Hero. high ·praise: Geroge's tunes have been Easy"and "long distance love".
The band consists of Lowell George (lead recorded by Rondstadt, Commander Cody and slide guitars, vocals, spirituals guid­and the Byrds, just to mention a few.) George's dark, tangled, and often des­
ance and occasional production); Bill Pyne Payne is able to capture the plight of the perate images, his jaded voice and (keyboards and vocals), a studio musician once industrious railroads in "Red Stream­excellent guitar work are in short supply par excellence who has played with Bonnie liner'': "Cast of steel and cast aside, but missed as one might first expect, given 
Raitt, the Doobie Brothers, Gregg Allman, Broken dreams maybe, but you haven't his past dominance. A band such as this, · and others; Paul Barrere (second lead and died." solid musicians all, compensates more than slide guitars, vocals); Sam Clayton (con­Barrere rivals George for cryptic demen­adequately for George's quiescence. gas, percussion, vocals); Ken Gradney tia in lyrics. His "Old Folks Boogie'" Maybe he just wanted to show the rest of (bass); and Richie Hayward (drums and speaks of the aged "Doin~ the old folks us how good they are. Whatever the intent. vocals). George, Payne and Barrere boogie, wheelchairs locked arm in .arm," the result is another in the line of handle the bulk of the writing chores. As. well as describing the determinant of immensely enjoyable Little Feat albums, 
d,_ t' ?
The Cult: a new Irec IOn . by dom salemi 
After finally hitting the American Top 
while "Searchin' for Celine" is a slice of 
eerie runs of Lanier and 
the moody solos of Forty with last year's "Don't Fear The lifeless funk redeemed only by a tremen­Roeser, the track is incredibly compelling. Reaper," a wonderfully endearing tune dous break by Roeser in the middle. The song doesn't even sound like anything 
about suicide, there were some fears in the 
S:ide two contains more conventional BOC has ever done before. It's so rock circle that Blue Oyster Cult would BOC material, opening with three strong unabashedly commercial --no one can sayfollow that smash with an Ip of softer, more rockers. "R.U. Ready 2 Rock" is merely a that the song didn't sell because of the melodic rock. Well that's exactly what has rhetorical question that gives the listener band's image. I mean, the first time I 
happened. No "cities on flame with rock 
little chance to respond before Roeser heard the thing I didn't even recognize who and roll" this time, nor are there any trips comes flying in on top of Eric Bloom's it was. And maybe that's the problem with being taken on some "hot rails to hell." thundering chords. "Celestial the Queen" BOC' s new course of direction: no one BOC has junked the thundering heavy which follows gives Allen Lanier a chance knows what to make of them. Theymetal approach for a lighter, more com­to show off on the synthesizer and his obviously want to make it big financially, mercially-oriented sound. sweetly engaging fills nicely round out this so they're attempting to pander to the 
engaging tune. "Goin' Through the public. · While refusing to compromiseThe only problem with the new, improv­Motions," the third consecutive uptempo thematically ,the band is alienating the very ed BOC is that they're still singing about 
number of the side is also the strongest audience they are trying so desperately tothe old BOC concerns: death, destruction cut. Released as a single by the band, it reach. A compromise must apparently be
and sterility. I don't care how much you didn't do very well, but that's the public's made if theCult is to generate mass appeal.
sound like Fleetwood Mac; when you open fault, not the band's. Featuring a strong Sinlting bouncy pop songs about death andthe lp with: vocal performance by Bloom above the ·sterilityis decidely not the way to do it. 
With a purposeful grimace and terrible sound I He pulls the spinning high tension wires down I Helpless people on subway trains I Scream "Oh my God I As he looks in on them I He picks up a bus and he throws it back down I As he wades through the village I Toward the center of town I Oh no there goes Tokyo I All cause of Godzilla, 
you're playing for a select audience. And this isn't even the only song about monsters on the Ip. "Nosferatu," is a retelling of the 1928 Max Schrenk Dracula movie (the silent .one where Drac has long fingernails and pointy ears) complete with eerie melodic backdrop and appropriately chilling vocalizing. 
The other songs, while musically engag­ing, are just as dramatically bizarre. "Death Valley Nights" is not quite as dramatic as "Godzilla," and features some vicious guitar work from Donald Roeser over the propulsive chords of Lanier's ·--­piano. Probably the best cut on the lp, it opens with the haunted, weary voice of Bloom and then kicks into a stunningly dramatic chorus with Bloom screaming for "one kiss from you babe" as the band picks up the tempo. 
"Fireworks" is another song in much the same vein, combining an infectious melody With.' a gorgeous chorus replete with hand claps and effective harmonizing. 
It is the kind of tune that just begs to be sung along with, and really, who would have thought that one would ever be able to say that about a group that was writing songs like "Career of Evil," and "Harves­ter of Eyes" just a few short years ago? 
Naturally not all the songs on the lp are as effective as "Fireworks." "I Love The .Night" is a moody piece that goes nowhere 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME SPECIAL 


WIN A SCHOLARSHIP 
Come to a FREE SPEED READING LESSON Increase Your Reading Speed 50-100o/o 
COMPARE AND DECIDE 
Dynamic Reading Systems Inc. 
D.R.S. guarantees in writing to at least triple your DYNAMIC READING SPEED or you will receive a FULL refund. 
Advanced Course 
Lifetime membership enables our graduates to retake the course to extend their skills at no additional charge. 
Our professional instructors are required to do extended research after the initial training period for further insight, and take written exams. 
Our instructors are required to take reading proficiency evaluations. 
2~50°k discount on books. 
Tuition Assistance Payment PI an NO FINANCE CHARGE!! 
Evelyn Wood Reading Dynamics Inc. 
Partial refund of the price of the course if you fail. 
No known advanced course known at this time. 
Their graduates are required to pay a registration fee to retake the course. NO exams given. 
NO reading proficiency evaluations given. 
NO discount on books. Contractual obligation with finance Charge. 



ATTEND A FREE LESSON: 
Monday, February 13 -12Noon, 2:00, 4:00 , 6:00PM Tuesday, February 14 -12Noon,. 2:00, 4:00, 6:00PM 

All Meetings Held At The CENTER FOR CONTINUING EDUCATION RM. 14 Downstairs 
"Knowledge is a reflection of reading" 
-
Dynamic Reading Systems Inc. 
A company established by a group of former Evelyn Wood Reading Dynamics' Instructors, utilizing totally new concepts. 

1721 CROOKS RD., TROY, Ml 48084 (313) 366-1230 
Copyright 1977 Dynamic Reading Systems Inc. 
•.. ,·,~
..•

. .J._ •••.. -· ........ -. . "J. • ............ ---. ----.l4iJ 
.. ... . . . . . . . . . ... . . . ... . ..... .. . .',• .. 
------------~--~-­
Monday, February 13, 1978 the ObS8[J8r 
7 



C~mmission recommends standards for US prisons 
--. --­

LOST: Round 14 K gold medal the size of 
aquarter with sun face and crack. Also, a Anyone wishing to register and vote in gold italian horn. Lost Thursday am, Jan Indiana's May election should contact Mo 26 between Fisher and dining hall. at 4-1-4001 before spring break. ....Substantial reward. Call Mike 3010. 
Dissertations, manuscripts typed. IBM FOUND: Silver wire-framed glasses out­slection II. Linda's Letters: 287-4971. side the ACC before Maryland game.Call1475. Typing. Reasonable rates. Call 8051. 
LOST: Maroon ski jacket at Library Bar Accurate, fast typing. Mrs. Donoho: Sat night Special X-Mas present 232-D746. Hours: 8 am to 6 pm. Reward. Call Kevin 1655. 
Boarding for horses (no stallions) includ­FOUND: One student hockey ticket. If 
ing covered arena one mile from campus. you can identify it is yours again. Call Call Dr. Ford, 287-5806. 8655. 
Typing in home. Fast, accurate, reason­LOST: A pocket camera somewhere 
able. Phone 272-7866 anytime. between North Dining Halland Admini­
startion Building on Saturday of Snow Nr.Eo QUALITY TYPING? Executary storm. Please call Ruth, 1317. lt:c., Professional Typing Service, IBM Correcting Selectrics. 85 cents per page RUTH: check out the "Found" add about mimmum. Call 232-0898 "When you 7 or 8 ads up the page. want the best" 
FOUND: A valuable pen, between 0', Shag <!nd the Chern. Eng. Bldgs. CallFOR RENT 3869 to claim. 
FOUND: A pair of women's gloves, tanFor rent next school year, completely with a brown leather palm, behind thefurnished 4 bedroom house a couple bookstore. Call8472 to claim (its too coldblocks from campus. No security outside to be going without your gloves).
problems, safe neighborhood, easy walk to campus. Call 277-3604. 
Two furnished houses for rent next school FOR SALE year. Nine month old lease with four bedrooms and five bedrooms. Near NO, 
off street parking. Call 234-2626. Eight studio series BASF Blank reel to reel tapes. These professional 1800 foot stdio tapes are still in factory wrap. Only 
LOST AN FOUND $40. Call Gene at 1694. 
Month old SR-51-1 I texas Instruments LOST:A black wallet, somewhere be­calculator. Regular $60, sell $45. John, tween Sarin and the ACC. Identifying 8976. cards inside (Brendan Taylor) and lots of cash. Will feel very generous if found. FOR SALE: BIG 981 turntable only three Call 8467. months old. Comes with a Shure M91ED 
cartridge , walnut base and dustcover. LOST: San Francisco license plate -key Must sell. Call 3058. chain with name "Maureen". Please call 6856. 
FULL COLOR COTTON BOWL PIC­
TURES NOW AVAILABLE. CALL 8982. LOST: One blue ski glove (left hand) between the Rock and Alumni. Lost on 
New GA 19" color TV won in raffle. Thursday, Feb. 2, approx 4:45 pm. If $300. Call 287-1972. found please contact George at 1248. 
FLANNER RECORDS ALBUM SALE: All LOST: Set of room keys between Sarin $7.98 list LP's only $4.99. All $6.98 list LP's only $4.49 (plus tax). Sale ends
and South Dining Hall. If found please Sunday, Feb. 19. Flanner records, 322
~all 8500. 
Flanner, Phone 2741. Lost: Green and gold ski cap in cafetria. 
Frozen Yogurt machine. Great for moneyReward. Please call Paul 8540. 
minded student Refreshing for the FOUND: One camera. Call 3601 to 
warm days ahead. Call Erma at Taco identify. Rico, 291-3142. 
LOST: One red arid green scarf, probably~ 
WANTEDin South Dining Hall. Call 6326. ~ NEED TIX TO MARQUETTE. CALL KATE 12&4. 

dollar. Paul 6755. 

WASIDNGTON[AP]-The nation's jails should provide each inmate with at least 60 square feet of cell space and should house juveniles and adults in quarters "separated by sight and sound," a professional accreditation commission said yes­terday. 
"The standards are high. Atta­ining them will not be an easy task," said the report from the Commission on Accreditation for Corrections. 
The commission, a private group representing the nation's state and l?cal prison administrators, pub­hshed 382 standards for minimum conditions in the estimated 4000 local jails and lockups in tne country. 
The standards and the possibility of winning accreditation may help jail administrators and private re­form groups persuade local legisla­tures to spend more money on jail improvements. 
The space requirements may be the most difficult to meet. Jails in many parts of the country are becoming overcrowded because state and federal prisons are them­selves crowded far beyond ca­pacity. This means more and more prisoners must be held in local jails awaiting transfer to a prison. 
The space requirements may be 
the most difficult to meet. Jails in 
many parts of the country are 
becoming overcrowded because 
state and federal prisons are them­
selves crowded far beyond capa­
city. This means more and more 
prisoners must be held in local jails 
SENIORS: Looking for a little extra cash for the semester but only want to work one or two days a week? Pizza Hut at Edison Rd. is looking for people like you. Call 233-3827. 
Ride needed to Bloomington (I.U.) Feb. 17. Call Hal1171. 
Need 10 Marquette tickets. Make offer. Call Joe 234-0980. 
Desperately need 4 GA tickets to Mar­quette. Call 1423. 
Need GA 11/,arquette tickets. Will pay money. Chris, 283-1023. 
Need two or four Marquette tix. 8504 or 8502. 
NEED UP TO EIGHT GA Til( FOR MARQUETTE GAME. CALL 1m. 
Iam in dire need of two Marquette B-Ball tix. Will pay your price. Call1612. 
WANTED: two Marquette tix. Will pay 
Need two Marquette GA tickets. Call Diane 7883. 
Need four GA tickets to any weekend home basketball game. Call 4-1-5745.

__________________, 
NEED RIDE TO PITTSBURGH AREA ~FTER WEDNESDAY .....VA.LL 7088. 
Female wanted to share spacious 2 bedroom apt. $75 per month after 5pm. Call 289-8015. 
------------------------~ 
Will pay big bucks for NO-Marquette tix! Jlllllll"""" 
Call John 3829. 

Need two student or GA Marquette ·tickets. Call Claire 289-6533. ~ · 
JIIIIIII""'"'ROOMATE WANTED to share 3 bed­
room house at Corby and Hill with two Male students. Rent is $84 per month. Please call 288-2991. 
Two tickets for Marquette. Call Rich ­1173. 
TWO TICKETS FOR N.C. STATE GAME call Rich or Joe 1173. 
Two Marquette GA tickets. Will pay top 
Need ride to So. Bend late night from NO. Will pay. Call 233-7949. 
My Marquette grad father needs 2 tix badly. Will pay much $$$$. Please phone 1735. 
Need 1or 2female apt. mates. NO Apts., call 284-4953 or 288-8767. 
Need ride for three to the New York City area for spring break. Call Doug, John, or Tom at 3414. 
Need 2 tickets [GA) for Loyola B-Ball game. Call 6740. 
Need six GA and 5student tickets for the Marquette game. Will pay big bucks! Call Kevin, 287-5737. 
Need Marquette tickets, student or GA. Call Brian 272-5843. 
PERSONALS 
LISA D'ALLESANDRO ....................... 
HHAPPY 19th BIRTHDAY.....SORRY WE MISSED IT. THESE THINGS SHOULDN't BE KEPT SECRET. HOPE YOU HAD A GOOD ONE! ... .! II Sorin [at. al., Woody, Keel, Rusty, Owen, etc., etc., ] 
Dear Executive Women: I can use Kathy's B-day gifts if she doesn't need them! Mom 
If you haven't already, apply for paidpositions at the SMC "21-Ciub Bar. Applications are available at the Student Affairs office, LeMan Hall, You have until this Friday, Feb. 17. You'll like it! 
MARYBETH: Happy 21st from your sweet baby boy 
Back up sisters. Hell hath no fury like sisters scorned. 
Liza, Nano, Renee, Kathleen, Ann, Jeanette, Angela, and the Voluptous Women: Thank you for an Unforgettable MeBirthday celebration!!! Love. 
adomer 
awaiting transfer to a prison. 
More than 100 jails are under 

court orders to improve conditions, 
and most of the orders require 
more space for inmates. 
The commission called it essen­tial that jail cells "have at least 60 ~quare feet of floor space, provided mmates spend no· more than ten hours per day locked in their cells. For those confined for longer periods, there should be at least 70 square feet of space, the commis­sion said. 
The basic requirement is half the size of the 10 by 12 foot bedroom common in many family homes and hardly larger than a good-sized bathroom. 
Each cell should contain ''toilet facilities, wash basin, bunk, desk, shelf, hooks or closet space, and chair or stool," the commission said. 
Dormitory-type cells should house no more than 16 inmates with SO square feet per person, and this type of housing should be phased out, the report continued. "Recent court decisions have emphasized the importance of housing inmates in single-occupan­cy cells or rooms," the commission said. "Single occupancy provides inmates privacy and protection and helps reduce tensions among in­mates." 
Among other standards, the commission recommended that juvenile housing should be separa­ted by sight and sound" from the 

•quarters for men. 
Don't forget that special person V-Day. Send Badin carnations. 
Be a secret admirer....send Badin tions. 
Send afriend asweet for Valentines day! Assorted candies for only 75 cents and we deliver! Orders taken in Dining Halls today by Angel Flight. 
Haircuts cheap. Styles, trims, SMC 4530. Betsy. 
Need 4GA tix for Marquette. SMC 4530. Betsy 
Let Ringo and Jester serenade your valentine. $2.110. 8243, 8228. 
Pa. 65780Z Plymouth Volare' ­

' You were the ones who were driving like you were afraid of trucks! We're just as afraid of strange phone numbers. You call us at 4-1-4001 if you want another test of driving skills! Orange Ohio Camara 
Ann: Sorry about the call! Love, Quality Motor Inn 
Happy Birthday Tom! From the BP girls who don't care. 
Improve Tom's social life. For a good time? call 3323. 


:.!'·. ~ 

Mondav. February 13, 1978

the observer
8 

Demons raise hell, nip Irish in ACC 
by Paul Stevenson the Irish to draw within one point. with 12 seconds left and Bradshaw Sports Editor Although the crowd was alive and fouled Branning. With ten seconds the Irish appeared to be on the left, Branning missed the first half 
The eleventh-ranked DePaul move, the Demons would not lay of a one on one and with three Demons, utilizing a tight zone down. seconds remaining, Garland con­defense and consistent offensive In the second half, the lead was nected on a 20 footer to give play, upset the Fighting Irish tossed back and forth, with neither DePaul a hard-fought, 69-68, basketball team, 69-68, in overtime team able to score more than four triumph. yesterday afternoon in the ACC. unanswered ·points. Gary Gar­"We were very fortunate to 
DePaul's victory snapped Notre land's two free throws at the 10:20 win," a jubilant Ray Meyer com­Dame's 22 game home court win­mark of the period gave the mented. "Each team had their ning streak and marked the first Demons a 51-44 edge. With seven chances. This was an important time the Demons have been victo­minutes remaining in the contest, game for us. I think this victory rious in South Bend in 11 years. DePaul led 55-49. At that point teh insures us of an NCAA. bid." 
The Irish scored the opening Demons decided to slow down the "I'm very happy about this basket of the contest when Dave tempo of the game. season. ThiS' is the most pleasing Batton connected from the top of But the Irish would not fold. The year I've ever had in coaching. the key. However, the Demons Notre Dame cagers battled back We'll get beaten, but we'll give soon took control of the battle. and when Kelly Tripucka connect­everybody a good game." Notre Dame trailed by as much as ed from the right baseline with 1 :33 For the game, DePaul shot 44 five points throughout the first half left in the game, the Irish had tied percent from the field. Corzine and never regained the lead until the score at 59, the first time they notched 23 points and seven the 6:29 mark of the period when had tied or led since the 15:46 mark rebounds. Garland added 16 Duck Williams' shot from the left of the period. markers, followed by Watkins who baseline gave the Irish a 24-23 · Joe Ponsetto connected for De­contributed 15. advantage. Paul and Batton followed with shot Flowers led the Irish with 19 
• The lead for the remainder of the from the top of th~ key with 53 points and a career high 15 opening 20 minutes see-sawed seconds remaining to tie the regu­rebounds. Batton added 18 points back and forth, with DePaul on top lation score at 61. But, DePaul ran for the Irish. at intermission, 34-32. After their off 23 seconds before calling time In the opening half, Notre Dame ! 
........,_,

opening basket, the Irish never led out and with 12 seconds remaining, shot 39 percent from the field and 
.....

by more than one point. Bill Hanzlik stole a Ponsetto pass imporved to only 45 percent after In the first half, Dave Corzine, that was intended for Corzine. intermission. For the game, the Bruce Flowers led the Notre Dame cagers in scoring with 19 points 
the eventual winner of the W endal However, with two seconds left, Irish hit 42 percnet, down from while also hauling in a career high 15 rebounds. [Photo be Ron Szot] Smith Award, connected on seven Batton's shot from the key did not their season average of 53 percent. of 11 field goals and one free throw fall as the game was sent into Notre Dame also hit ten of 17 form to pace DePaul with 15 points. overtime. the free throw line fro 59 percent, 

Women down Manchester
Curtis Watkins hit four of four from Corzine's layup gave DePaul the also below their seasonal average the field and two of two from the first two points of overtime, but of 70 percent. by Suzanna Behnke hosted Northern Illinois University gift line to follow Corzine with ten Notre Dame then scored seven The Demons completely shut Sportswriter Saturday afternoon. The play of markers. unanswered points and appeared down Notre Dame's running game. the game was even between the 
Bruce Flowers led the Irish in the as though they had the contest The victory lifts DePaul's record to The Notre Dame women's bas­two teams. Jayne Politiski came up opening half with II points, finding within their grasp. But an errant 20-2, while the Irish fall to 16-4. ketball team extended their record with another impressive game of 15 the range on five of seven field Flowers pass was picked off and "We just have to regroup," Irish to 7-2 by defeating Manchester points and 18 rebounds. Carol goals and connecting on his solo DePaul signaled for timeout with mentor Digger Phelps stressed. College, 74-49, last Thursday and Lally contributed 19 points for the attempt from the charity stripe. 1:32 remaining. Garland then hit a "We have two games on the road losing toNorthern Illinois Universi­Irish while sophomore Kelly Hicks, Batton backed Flowers in scoring rebound goal and then Clyde this week, Fordham at the Garden ty, 65-58, on Saturday in the ACC. pulled in 10 rebounds. with eight points. Bradshaw stole the ball from and then South Carolina. It's not The Irish put on a class perfor­Notre Dame's loss was mainly 
In the first half, the Irish could Flowers and tallied another two an easy road with our schedule mance Thursday night against the result of a sluggish offensive not generate any potent offense, points. The DePaul freshman also ahead." Manchester. Molly Cashman had a attack in the second period and the allowing the Demons to maintain drew a foul off the Huntington 
season's high of 21 points with Irish inability to capitalize on their lead through the majority of Woods, Michingan native, his fifth 
Marge Meagher adding her own several one and one free throw the period. With 6:56 remaining of the game. 
*Observer 
personal high of 17 points. Jayne opportunities. before intermission, Notre Dame Bradshaw missed the free throw 
Politiski played a steady offensive There are two home games this broke the DePaul press and Batton but Randy Ramsey intercepted a 
and defensive game bringing in 10 week. The Irish will host St. hit Orlando Woolridge under the Tripucka pass and DePaul called 
points and the game high of 11 Joseph College Thursday night at 7




Sports 
rebounds. p.m. and then Marion Colege this slam-dunk and free throw enabled overtime. Garland missed a shot basket. The freshman eager's time out with 35 seconds left in After one days rest, the Irish Saturday afternoon at 2 p.m. 
Notre Dame icers split with Huskies 
by ChJp Scanlon action couldn't decide the better feed from Dave Joelson as the penalty, that to Brownschidle for Humphreys and Tom Michalek Sportswriter team and Saturday night it wasn't Huskies broke into the Irish zone executing a trip on a partial next combined on a textbook two on settled until 1:22 remained in the on a two on one break with only breakaway. Red Wilkie did make one break and Humphreys put it 
A balanced attack, aggressive game. blueliner Jeff Brownschidle back. another controversial call on the away to givew the Irish an advan · forchecking and some exceptional "We're getting very good goal­Brownschidle took Joelson, but his Irish though, disallowing a goal tage that held up until 15:06 of th,. goaltneding helped the Irish icers tending and the scoring attack has pass reached Decker in time to fire that deflected off Kevin Hum­third period. Greg Hp· ·.~eat split a series with the Michigan been very well balanced," noted a shot from close range to beat phrey's leg that might have been Peterson to the upper co .:·. and : Tech Huskies in two exciting and Head Coach Lefty Smith. "Friday Moher. the difference for Notre Dame. was time for the Humphreys-Mi­wen played hockey games at the night, Collier's line did the scoring In the first period, Michigan Collier solved Horsch in the chalek combination to go to work ACC, 2-3, 5-3. Saturday night's and then Saturday it was Micha­Tech's Roger Moy opended the second period after 14:17 had again. This time Michalek took the win keeps the Irish in sixth place in lek's unit. Add to that the way the scoring at 2:08, but the lead was a elapsed and both netminders had pass from Humphreys and guided the league, trailing fifth place defense has been performing and shortlived one for the Huskies. come up with key saves. But again one across the goal line while Colorado College by a point. you have the reasons for the Geoff Collier answered less than the lead didn't last long and again sprawling on the ice. Don Jackson 
The action was end to end all success we're achieving." five minutes later with his first of it was roger Moy who scored for the added an insurance goal into an Neekend, the Irish and Huskies Friday night Len Moher and two goals in the contest. Jackson Huskies on an unassisted effort. empty net and the Irish gained a swapping goals and leads to keep Bruce Horsch locked up in a and Lucia set Collier up for the shot After a scoreless and penalty split with the fifth-ranked Huskies, the 7490 fans who attended the goaltender's battle that finally and that was to be all the scoring in free third period, the Irish and coming within a dusputed goal of series on the edge of their seats. ended at 3:06 in the sudden death an unusual of hockey where Huskies exchanged shots on goal sweeping the series. On Friday 60 minutes of when Dana Decker took a the whistled one before Decker won it for Mighigan Notre Dame upped their record 
Tech. Horsch finished with 33 to 10-13-1 in the league, good saves for the night while Moher enough for fifth place in the turned away 37. It was Moher's WCHA. The Irish trail Denver 17th appearance in overtime during (22-4-0, 44 points), Wisconsin his four year career and only his (17-7•2, 36 points), Michigan Tech second loss in sudden death, his (16-10-0, 32 pts), Minnesota first in the WCHA. ·-(15-10-1, 31 pts), and Colorado 
Saturday night both goaltenders College (11-15-0, 22 pts.). All of were again dominant figures in the the league teams, with the except­game; John Peterson and John tion of North Dakota, have played Rockwell kept the game close, two games more than the Irish. thwarting good scoring opportuni­Notre Dame's next opponent will ties for both sides. be the Bulldogs of Minnesota-Du­
Dick Howe lit the first light for luth who travel to South Bend next Notre Dame with a wrist shot that weekend for the Irish home finale. went off a player in front of the Duluth is fighting for a playoff crease and past Rockwell. Both berth with a 9-16 record in eighth teams were granted power play place, coming off a sweep of the opportunities by referees Wilkie Michigan Wolverines, 8-7, 6-1. and bymark, but neither could Tickets are still available for this capitalize on the advantage. weekend's contests scheduled for 
In the middle period, Bob Baum­7:30 faceoff. gartner put the Irish ahead 2-0 as •••••••••• he beat Rockwell on a backhander Reminder: A bus trip is planned at the 2:57 mark with help from for the Michigan State game in Humphreys and Dan Byers. It East Lansing on Saturday, Febru­
• 

seemed like the script for the ary 25th. Sandwiches, beer and a weekend series wouldn't allow a ticket to the game are provided for team to enjoy a lead for long and the price of 512.00. To sign-up 
Joelson and Bret Bjerken scored contact the Hockey Office at 8488 . Tom Michalek score-' . ...... ...,..,s victory over Michigan Tech to help earn the two quick goals within 1 :55 to knot The trip will return immediately
.

Irish a split in the 
·~ the game again. after the game Saturday 
1',· 

.... 



