
-------~~-------~-----~-------------------------.--------;-----,:-----:-.-:-_-:--~~~------------~-­
I 
-
St. Mary's to close? 


Insurance covers 'more extensive' fire losses 

No decision will be made until Thursday of Friday at the earliest on whether or not Saint Mary's will be forced to close due to the coal strike, College President John M.
The Duggan announced yesterday. "At the moment, nothing we've 
been told changes our situation," he said. "Unless something hap­pens such as new coal shipment, we may have to make a decision by Thursday of Friday, to be effective Monday or Tuesday."

Observer 
However, Duggan, Comptroller an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's 
Jason Lindower, and Vice Presi­dent of Academic Affairs William 
Vol. XII, No. 92 Tuesday, February 28, 1978 Hickey will meet today with offi­
by Patrick Cole Special Projects Editor 
EDITOR'S NOTE: This Is the second story In a three-part series examining the University's safety from fire hazards. Today's story will look at Notre Dame's insurance policy for buildings. 
Although some moderate fire damage is not covered by insurance and may be expensive for the University, Notre Dame's buildings are covered by a comprehensive insurance policy against more ex­tensive damage. 
"We have a manuscript policy for the University," said Charles S. Reddy, insurance officer for Notre Dame, ''which covers the buildings on campus and their contents against fire damage." The insur­ance policy also covers damage caused by weather and any vandal­
ism  on  buildings,  according  to  
Reddy.  
Reddy  said  a  rate  has  been  

negotiated for fires with the Pri­mary Insurance Company who "assumes part of the risk and who insures -with re-insurance." Reddy explained, "For example, we have millions of dollars of coverage. But the insurance company will -assume part of the cost and go to a reinsurance company." 
A reinsurance company is an organiztion that insures the initial , insurance company and backs them 
Charles S. Reddy, insurance officer for Notre Dame.[photo by Doug Christian) 
Penalty board -formed 
by Paul Julin 

Dean of Students James Roemer has established a six-member ad­visory board providing input for students and faculty members on penalties given for disciplinary cases which come before the Dean's office. 
The Penalties Board will discuss types of penalties enforced for infractions of rules, according to Roemer. He said he will seek the board's opinion on using monetary fines, constructive work, commun­ity service, or "just plain hard work" as punishments. 
"The board will not deal with actual discplinarycases," Roemer stressed. He explained that due to the "necessity of students' pri­vacy" the board will discuss only hypothetical cases. The group will also give advice on penalty policies at the hall level and for the University in general, he said. 
Four students and two faculty members have been appointed to the board. The student members include Tom Byrne and Marianne Murphy, both seniors in Arts and 
~·-·-·-·~:.w._·,,'--,_·_.._·~··-·-·-------~-------·-_·_··-·--------~----·_':_·~"'_:·_·_·-----~_::__'·_j__~:· 
Letters; Rick VanBeveren, a senior in Business Administration and Mary Meg McCarthy, a sophomore also in Business Administration. 
Faculty members of the Penalty Board include James Seckinger, associate professor of law, and Lee Tavis, professor of finance and business economics. 
Byrne, who is Student Govern­ment Press Secretary, as well as a member of the board, explained that appointment of the board ''fulfills an oral agreement Roemer and the Board of Trustees made last fall with Student Government as part of the judicial code." 
Roemer said the board will discuss a policy which would impose a fine upon a student's account that must be paid before semester credits are given if an uncooperative student refuses to do work, such as setting up chairs and tables in the ACC, a traditional punishment. 
He calculated that "SO to 60 percent of behavioral problems on campus are alcohol related." Through discussions with the Pen­alties Board, Roemer hopes to [continued on page 3) 
PSC lifts ban on night sports; redefines human needs services 
INDIANAPOLIS [AlP] -The Indi­ana Public Service Commission (PSC) lifted its ban on night sports . events and placed them in a 40-percent curtailment category with all other recreational and entertainment activities as well as schools. 
In addition, the commission re­vised its definition of human needs services to allow utilities to meet the minimum needs of customers engaged in food production, distri­bution and storage. 
The modifications in the curtail­ment order, issued two weeks ago, were announced by PSC chairman Larry J. Wallace. He said the changes were designed to alleviate inequities in the original plan, which called for utilities to imple­ment electrical curtailments once their coal supplies dipped below the 40-day level. 
Wallace cautioned that the changes do not mean the coal emergency has passed. "The emergency wil continue until fuel supplies start to increase," he said. 
In fact, state officials now esti­mate the electric cuts will mean smaller paychecks for about:14,000 Hoosiers, not including 2,900 per­sons laid off for one day Monday at General Motor's Delco-Remy plant at Anderson and 2,500 RCA Workers at Marion. 
Bruce Meyer of the Indiana financially, Reddy explained. 
Under the University's. insurance policy, The Royal Globe Insurance Company, founded in England, acts as the reinsurance agent for the Primary Insurance Co. 
Morrissey fire notcovered 
Reddy revealed that since the value of damage incurred in the Morrissey Hall fire did not exceed the insurance-policy's deductible, the University had to assume financial responsibility for the dam­age. "The insurance policy is a replacement-cost plan," Reddy said. "It pays the cost of rep1acing an article." 
Although Reddy declined to state how much the University's deduct­ible was worth, he did say that the deductibles could run from $5,000 to $1 million. 
"The Morrissey fire and the fire in the Chemical Engineering build­ing some weeks ago will have to be paid for by the University," Reddy said. "The insurance sompany wouldn't enter into it. So the repair of these buildings causes a finan­cial burden on the University." 
Likewise. the University did not assume responsibility for the dam­aged property of the Morrissey fire victims. "When a fire occurs. the students will report the damage." Reddy indicated. "But it is the responsibiliey of each student to carry insurance for his property." 
Security Division's research and statistics office said some were indefinitely laid off, others were working fewer hours daily or fewer days each week and some were just temporarily idled by the coal strike. Meyer said the figure does not include 2,900 persons at Ander­son's Delco Electronics plant who were laid off for one day Monday. 
So far, mandatory power cuts indefinitely idled 3,900-4,000 Hoos­iers, including 300-400 persons laid off yesterday, he said. The newest layoffs were mainly school corpor­ation personnel and 100 employees at Kirk Glass Co. at Dunkirk. 
Yesterday's PSC action lifts an outright ban on ·all night sports events and the requirement that schools cut electric consumption in half. The change was based on testimony by representatives of the Department of Public Instruction, the Indiana Higher Education Com­mission as well as theater owners, bowling center proprietors . and owners of ice skating rinks, the commission decided to modify it. 
"These were minor adjustments that we felt were necessary," Wallace said. 
"It wasn't so much a matter of going along with the requests. It was a matter of going along with the evidence," he said. 
Most schools, he noted, were able to trim their electrical use by Premiums 
According to Reddy. the Univer­sity pays "hundreds of thousands of dollars each year" for the school's insurance policy. He add­ed, "It takes a lot of effort on the part of the University and the brokers to keep the premiums from increasing at the same rate of inflation." 
But the Morrissey fire will not cause the University's premiums to be any higher, he assured. 
When asked if the University's insurance policy is a good one. Reddy responded. "We have one of the finest policies for an educa­tional institution that exists today. I helped make it with a broker and we try to cover everything we can." 
One of the problems. however, that may arise. when the Univer­sity's policy does not cover the student's property is that the student may not receive total compensation for damaged items. 
Junior Jeff Thinnes, who lost most of his personal belongings in the Morrissey Hall fire last September, said that his insurance policy didn't 
entirely  cover  his  property  and  
belongings.  
"I  received  $1,950  from  my  

insurance company. but I came up a few hundred dollars short of my estimation," Thinnes said. 
Tomorrow: The Morrissey Fire cials of the Indiana and Michigan Electric Company to present rea­sons for keeping Saint Mary's open. 

"We will try io convince them to Jet us stay open if we run at SO percent power. At the most, we only need an extension of eleven days to make it to spring break," Duggan explained. 
I&M has said in the past that the earliest the College would be forced to close would be March 6. Duggan promised to keep students notified as further informaticn is made available. 
40-percent but no further and the order was changed to reflect that. Among those that had managed to cut their power consumption in half. he said, "we hope that they will continue in those conservation efforts." 
He conceded that the changes might allow high schools to hold bovs basketball tournaments that had been put in limbo by the curtailments. 
"All we care is that schools cut back by 40-percent ... \\'allace said. 
"What they do with that electricity would have to rest on their own conscience." 
At the commission's last meeting Friday, Northern Indiana Public Service Co. reported a 62-day supply of coal; Indianapolis Power & Light Co. had 59-days' worth; Southern Indiana gas & Electric Co. had 48 days; Public Service Indiana, which has implemented the curtailment order, had 44 days; while Indiana & Michigan Electric Co. and Hoosier Energy reported 40-days' supply. 
The curtailment order will not be lifted until the emergency has passed, he said. 
"We have to base our date on fuel supplies of utilities," Wallace said, rather than on the status of the ratification of the United Mine Workers (UMW) contract. [continued on page 3] 

-----------.-------------~--------------­
the ObS8rJ8[ _____T-'-u--'-es"--d_a-'-'y,'--F_e_b_ru_a__,ry'-2__8~,_19_7_8
2 

News Bri~fs ____......,. What do you say? 
LAS VEGAS, Nev.-What do you say to a naked burglar? That's what police were wondering Sunday when they arrested Karl Hunsaker, of Las Vegas, as he was climbing down a ladder in the buff carrying household goods from an apartment. 
On Campus Today_ ___,.. 
8:30a.m.· 5 p.m. 
10 a.m. ­4 p.m. 
12 noon 
12:15 p.m. 4:15p.m. 

5 p.m. 
7 p.m. 
7 p.m. 

7 & 8:30p.m. basketball, high school sectionals, a.c.c., tix at schools of participants only 
7:30p.m. eucharist, charismatic eucharist, log chapel, open ­
7:30p.m. , reception, graduate students holly howard & lynda halley exhibit, isis gallery/old fieldhouse 
8p.m. music critic/lecturer, michAel steinberg, sponsored by music dept. little theatre 
I 

lecture "paul's attitude towards the law and the18 p.m. 
jewish people" by e.p. sanders, me master univ., canada, sponsored by theo. dept., 278 galvin aud. 
9:30p.m. lenten talk series, "dimensions of sexuality," by rev. fritz pfotenhzuer, sponsored by st. ed's hall, st. ed's hall chapel 
Weather 

Cloudy with snow beginning around noon today and ending by early tomorrow afternoon. One to three inches of new snow accumulation is expected. Colder tonight and tomorrow. Highs today 25 to 30. Lows tonight S to 10. Highs tomorrow in the low 20's. Probability of precipitation: 60 percent today, SO percent tonight. 
*The Observer 
Night Editor: Krank L. Febe, 
Jr.  
Asst.  Night  Editor: Candy  
Solson  
layout  Staff:  Meggy  Piller,  
Ned Uert, Fay  Joster  
Scapegoat: Flo Mynn  

Features layout: Eve Stod­land 

Migraine sufferers needed 

Persons who suffer from frequent migraine headaches can help re­searchers in the Psychology Dep­artment and perhaps themselves. 
Volunteers are needed now for research on migraine headaches. The research will evaluate the dfcctiveness of different treat­~JCnts designed to alleviate head­Jche pain. 

All training will consist of teach­ing participants self-control over physiological responses, although participants will be allowed to continue taking medication if they wish. 
Upon completion of this research, all participants will receive training in the treatment found to be most effective. 
For further information, all inter­ested persons eighteen years of age or older are urged to call Leo Quintanar, 277-3055, or the depart­ment of Psychology, 283-6659 . 
peace corps/vista recruit111ent 4rive, recruiters frGm detroit & chica&o for pesitioM iR M.s. and abroad, library concourse for K1fo., placemertt center for interview 
government career day, sponsored by placement bureau, Iafortune ballreem 
registration, neighborhood roots registration will continue, spaces are limited, north and south dining halls 
mass, celebrated by fr. griffin, Iafortune ballroom 
seminar, "metabolism of fasciola hepatica and mechanism of action of fasciolicides," by dr. marvin 
d. schulman, merck institute for therapeutic research, sponsored by bio. dept., rm. 278 galvin 
gilbert lecture series, mr. jack kauffman, president & ch1ef executive officer of newspaper advertising bureau, inc. to speak, sponsored by marketing club, mem. lib. aud. 
registration, neighborhood roots program, north and south dining halls 
talk, "on christian marriage" by fr. james burt­chaell, walsh hall 
meeting, student manager organization, a.c.c. aud., all present & prospective managers are invited, 1977 highlights will be shown 
film series, "sullivan's travels", carroll hall s.m.c. 
Sports layout: Seg Crolman, Crank LaFrotta 
Typists: Rheresa Tichardson, Mish Treehan, Cwen Colman 
EMT: Bike Modle Day Editor: Fate Klynn Copy Reader: Cal Phickley Photographer: Chroug Distian 

Since few tickets remain, stu­den\s who want to participate in this year's edition of Neighborhood Roots are urged to sign up now. 
Featured in this year's program is a tour of South Bend. There will also be presentations by professors and area civic leaders. Afterwards, participants will attend a Polish Wedding feast. 
Registration for this tour and dinner will be held in both dining halls during lunch and dinner today. Neighborhood Roots will lake place on Sunday, March S. 
For more information, contact Teresa at 7905 or Kevin at 8595. 
.........-------------, 




Alumnae to discuss coeducation 
by Rosemary Mills Senior Staff Reporter 
Notre Dame's Women's Alum­nae Weekend will be held March 4-S. The event is sponsored by the Advisory Council for Women. 
According to Michele Kelly, co-ordiRsltor of the weekend, the idea for +Ire weekend is del!ligned tG make respopses·to questions raised in the repdft#'rom the committee to evaluate co-educa$ion. 
In the report, many questions were raised about the place of women in society, especially the balancing of careers and marriage. During the weekend, eleven alum­nae from the classes of 197 4 to 1976 will be available to discuss the experiences they have had in answering the report's questions. 
The women will stay in the 
need posters in a hurry? 
. . I 
•nsly·pnnts~ 
the wb of the printingbiz! 
1 00 -11 x 17 posters 
only $10.00 203 n. main Downtown So,Bend 289-6977 
The Observer Is pubflslled Mon­day tllrougll Friday ex~t dunn• exam and vautton periods. Tile Observer Is publlsfled by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions May be plllrdlasecl ,.,. no per year (510 per semester) from The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Nom Dame, Indiana 46556. SKIIHid class post..• paid, Notre Dame, Indiana, 46556, . The Observer 11 a ~nember ef the Associated Prns. All repro· 
dudton r11111t1 ant ntaerved. 
COLLEGE GRADS WANTED FOR INTERNATIONAL PROJECTS 
YOU CAN BECOME INVOLVED IN AN IMPORTANT, MEANINGFUL MOVEMENT FOR WORLD PEACE AS A PEACE CORPS VOLUNTEER. AND HELP PEOPLE IN A THIRD-WORLD COUNTRY WITH PROBLEMS OF POV~ ERTY, HUNGER IGNORANCE AND DISEASE. 
IF YOU ARE WILLING TO SHARE; YOUR SKILLS WITH PEOPLE WHO REALLY NEED THEM AND ARE ABLE TO PUT OFF CLIMBING THAT LADDER, GETTING THOSE BENEFITS, AND ACCUMULATING POSES­SIONS, CONSIDER THE PEACE CORPS AS AN AL· TERNATIVE FOR TWO YEARS OF YOUR LIFE. 
SEE RECRUITERS: For more Information or to arrange for an Interview, contact the Placement Center. ACTION reaulters will be on campus February 28-March 2 at the Ubrary Concourse, and March 1 & 2 at the Placement Center. Sign Up NOW. 
--JOIN THE NEW 
residence halls Friday and Satur­day nights. On Saturday from 1-S 
p.m. a panel discussion will be held in the Library Auditorium followed by an informal discussion. 
Sunday at 12:15 p.m. there will be a brunch in the faculty dining room at South Dining Hall. This will ptQvide a more in~ eppor· tunity fot" women sh1dents ta.speak to the alumnae. -· 
The eleven graduates were chos­en from dlfferent areas of the country and they possess a variety of back~rounds. General recom-

WEEKEND RETREATS 
Mar 31-April 2 ... Sr. Jean Lenz April 7-9 ... Fr. Bill Toohey April 14-16 ... Dr. Morton Kelsey April 21-23 ... Fr. Jim Burtchaell 
Lake Michigan Cottage For information, call 6536. 

mendations for the weekend were made by hall rectors, deans of colleges and Sr. John Miriam Jones, director of the Council and assistant provost of the University. 
According to Kelly, the women invited are still involved in Notre Dame and will have spmetbiag defi~ to say reglll"~::fieci.!iions Notre Dame women ·dwlke when ­consideri!J« cateers and "the fu­ture." 
This is the first major project of the Women's Advisory Council, !continued on page 3] 

• 
AGRICULTURE 

• 
BUSINESS · EDUCATION 

• 
ENGINEERING FRENCH 

• 
HOME ECON. 

• 
LIBERAL ARTS MATH NURSING 

• 
THE SCIENCES 





Tuesday, February 28, 1978 
the observer 




Coal negotiations continue 

Washington [API --Coal operators and union representatives returned to the scene of their negotiating skirmishes yesterday to preview the new contract aimed at settling the protacted \coal strike. 
Two groups met separately but conducted their <;essions in the same room at the Capital Hilton Hotel. Members of the 130-mem­ber Bituminous Coal Operators Association (BCOA) met first and heard the terms of the tentative three-year contract outlined in an hour long session. 
The coal operators would not say how they felt about the proposed deal their negotiators had made with the United Mine Workers (UMW). 
BCOA President Joseph Brennan said members of the association will vote on the proposal sometime later in the week but no date has been set. 
Although the coal operators re­fused to talk about the proposal, their approval seems assured. Union representatives, however, 
Alumnae weekend scheduled 
were less certain about the reaction of the UMW's 160,000 miners, 
whose strike enters  its  85th day  
today.  
Some  400 miners  and  district  

representatives attended the un­ion's contract session. The repres­entatives, who must sell the pro­posal to the rank and file later this week, walked into the hotel room as the coal operators walked out. 
UMW President Arnold Miller said he\ was upset about what he called premature criticism of the proposal agreed upon last Friday by union and coal company negota­tiors. "Ithink the comments of this vocal minority are totally unwar­ranted, "Miller said. "How can they criticize the proposal befor they've even seen it." 
Miller said he was still optimistic that the majority of the rank and file coal miners will approve the proposal when they vote on it thh~ Saturday and Sunday. 
In another development, White House press secretary Jody Powell said the Carter administration did 

LEE'S Bar-B-Que Miller Brewing 
and Dillion Hall Present 


ST· PATRICK'S 
DAY 

BASH 
Thur., Mar. 17, 1978 
1st Keg is·on us!
------------··--­

Open early at 4 till ?• 
not consider the proposed coal contract a model for other industry settlements and wa.s not planning to take an active role in trying to in its ratification. 
The contract proposes a 37 per­cent increase in compensation for miner:; by 1981. 
Penalty board formed 
[continued from pllj~e 1) "know what skills should be brought in when problems arise, and when students should be referred to professionals such as psychologists or drug and alcohol 
counselors." 
"I will be expecting advice as to those rule infractions that are serious and those less serious. I want to realize as fully as possible the dynamics that are at work in student life so that sensitivity can be shown," Roemer said. 
The first of the group's monthly meetings will be held on Thursday. 
in what is still a male-predominat­ed world." 
Kelly and Jones both see the weekend as an informal time to learn a great deal about experience encountered during preparation for a career and after graduation. "I think it's a great opportunity for women at Notre Dame to talk to alumnae in their fields to get their perspectives on careers, especially balancing careers with marriages and families," Kelly stated. "It should be especially interesting because these are women who graduated from Notre Dame when it was f~ven harder to make '' she added. 
Children's Carnival of the Arts, held last Saturday at Century u-••-&.--, featured plays, dances, magic shows and downs for 
l!hlt-e,ted tots. A group of Notre Dame-Saint Mary's students 
sponsored a storytelling booth at the carnival. All proceeds from 
the Children's Carnival and the weekend-long Carnival of the Arts 
will go to the Michiana Arts and Science Council. [photo by Beth 
Corbin] 

And the strike goes on 
[continued from page 1] So far the strike has hit the Terre 

The state's top three UMW Haute area hardest where 250-300 
officials were in Washington Mon­A&P food processing plant work­day at a contract briefing and other ers and another 150-200 Columbia 
several union members declined to Enameling Co. were all laid off 
comment on the upcoming ratifica­Meyer said. ' tion vote. 
The gold vein is here 
Miller Gold Vein 
BEER PLUS MUG $1 
Miller Rep will be here giving away 
t-shirts 
novelties 
paraphernalia 
1 
1 
1 
[continued from page 2) according to Jones. In the past, the Council has sponsored faculty speakers and seminars, but has never organized any large event. "The outcome of the weekend depends on the number of women who get involved," she stated. "This is something we've been wanting to do for a long timem, but we had to wait until there was a sufficient amount of alumnae to choose from." According to both Kelly and Jones women at Notre Dame are looking forward to the event. "Women in the administration 
were for prepare Notre Dame women for life 


289-0639 

ALL TUES & THURS 
with every purchase 
254 off any dinner 

St. Patrick's Day 
Happy Hour Prices 




mented. "And Fr. Hesburgh, University president, liked it or else he would not have given us the money and cooperation." 
Jones agreed, "I think people are really excited, especially the juniors and seniors." She added that these are the years in which questions about careers become more pertinent. 
If enough interest is shown in the weekend, it could be made into an annual affair. "We're hoping to learn some things from this week­end, too," Jones stated, "It could help us figure out how to better 
--L'-'---~~·~---_J 
--------------------------------------~----------~----------~----~-~------------------------------------------------------------~--~ 
the observer Tuesday, February 28, 1978_
4 





Motion to occupy Canal defeated 
Washington [AP]--The Panama Canal treaties suvived a crucial test yesterday when the Senate killed an amendment that would have allowed American troops to be stationed in the Canal Zone for 20 years after the waterway is turned over to the Panamians. 

The amendment, which provided the first test of strength on a substantive issue since the debate on the treaties began, was tabled by a vote of 55-34. 
The Senate also rejected 58-26 an amendment saying that the Endlish language version of the treaties would take precedence id there were any disareement between it and the Spanish language version. 

Sen. Orrin Hatch (R-Utah), spon­sor of the language amendment, argued there are 200-300 • • ambi­guities and difficulties" between the English and Spanish versions of the treaties. 
Sen. Paul Sarbanes (D-Md.), said State Department language experts went over the language of the English and Spanish versions and "the two tt:xts were brought into harmony.'' 
In another development, Sen. Robert T. Stafford (R-Vt.) an­nounced h1~ would support the treaty if it contains an amendment that incorporates into the pact an understanding between President Carter andl Panamanion leader Omar Torrijos on U.S. rights in the Canal Zone after the waterway is turned over to Panama. 
Last week treaty opponents failed in a procedural maneuver aimed at reversing the order in which the 
Busing appeal denied by Court 
WASHINGTON [API -The Su­preme Court, denying an appeal from Kentucky, said yesterday that the federal government does not have to help pay the costs of court-ordered busing to achieve racially desegregated public schools. 
The justices rejected without comment an appeal by Kentucky Gov. Julian M. Carroll seeking permission to ask for federal help in paying for busing in the Louis­ville area, one of hundreds of school districts across the nation carrying out court-ordered busing. 
The court's action bars, at least for now. any hope other state and local schools districts may have had to get such federal help. 
A racial desegregation plan in effect since 1975 for schools in Louisville and surrounding Jeffer­~on County, Ky., has made neces­sary the daily busing of some 
23.000 students. 
"The drain on state and local funds .. .is quite real and devasta­ting," Carroll's appeal said. 
The governor had challenged the constitutionality of three federal laws prohibiting federal funding of busing for desegregation. A federal judge in Louisviile and a federal appeals court already had upheld the laws. 

In urging the court to turn down Kentucky's argument, the Carter administration argued that the federal government is under no obligation to help defray desegre­gation costs. 
"Indeed, states may well be less likely to violate a citizen's rights today if it means paying the costs of making good those rights in the future," the Justice Department told the court. 
In other matters, the court:
Reversed two tower courts and ruled that residents of Puerto Rico 
ue not entitled to Supplemental
Security Income payments which 

I 
I ~hey recieved while living in the that benefits enjoyed in one state will follow the traveler. 
Government lawyers had sought the reversal, telling the high court that SSI payments to Puerto Rico residents would exceed $300 mil­lion a year and "threaten to disrupt Puerto Rico's already ailing econ­omy." -Let stand a ruling that federal courts may force the government to speed up settlements of disputed Social Security benefit claims. 
Health, Education and Welfare Secretary Joseph A. Califano had asked the court to overturn the ruling, contending that it "threat­
ens signifi<:antly" to disrupt his 
ability to administer Social Security 
benefits nationwide "in an even­
handed and orderly manner.'' 
-Left intact two lower court deci­
sions orderiing construction to be­
gin on a long-delayed and contro­
versial housing project for low 
income families in a residential 
section of south Philadelphia. The 
court's action appeared to clear the 
way for start of construction on the 
Whitman Townhous.e ~ct. 
-Refused to interfere with pnLe 
ceilings imJPOsed by the federal 
government for natural gas sold 
across state lines. 
Senate takes up the treaties. By a 67-30 vote the Senate refused to conside a pact aimed at ensuring the neutrality of the Canal Zone ahead of the agreement providing for the Uniter States to relinquish the waterway to Panama. 
Senate Majority Leader Robert C. Byrd had characterized the troop proposal voted down yesterday as a "killer amendment." 
The West Virginia Democrat said it was not necessary for the security of the canal, and that the prolonged presence of American troops "would result in the kind of hostile atmosphere we want to avoid." 
"Sen. James B. Allen (D-Ala.), chief sponsor of the amendment, said he was encouraged by the vote tabulation even though the amend­ment was defeated. 
"Senators are becomin more independent,'' said Allen of the 34 lawmakers who voted against tabl­ing the amendment. Because two thirds of the members of the Senate present and voting must support the treaties, 34 of the 100 law­makers could block ratification. 
On the other hand, Senate Demo­cratic Whip Alan Cranston of California called the outcome "Bet­ter than we expected. Our confi­dence is shown by the fact that we proceed with the vote although some of our votes were not here." 
Allen had argued that authority to keep troops in the Canal Zone for an additional 20 years was neces­sary for security reasons. He said the treaty's security provisions , including the requirement for with­drawal of all troops by 2000, "give us the right but deprives us of the means" to defend the waterway. 
"/ HAVE CALLED YOU BY YOUR NAM~" 
Brothers of Holy Cross 
Responding through educational, health, social, pastoral and oti1er ser­vice ministries. 
Br. Thomas Maddix, CSC 

-sox 308, Notre Dame, IN 46556 

a talk with recruiters on campus: 
Feb 28-March 2 in the L brary Concourse and March 1-2 at the Placement Center. 
Sign up NOW for an interview. 
justices decided that the constitu-A


I United States. Voting 7-2, the ··t===•==~:===;:==x::;!r;:::=JC=:;~=~~;;~~~~~~;;~i;;~~~;;~~;;~4~;~~~~:
I 
tiona! right to travel doesn't mean

! 

Children needed for campus choir 
Children from the third grade to the sixth grade are being recruited for a Children's Choir from the families of the Saint Mary's and 'olotre Dame campus by Fr. Robert 
r. Griffin. the University Chaplain. 
This choir will be trained to sing at 

l'ampus liturgies to which they may 
be invited. The musical director "·ill be Miss Joyce Schemanske, jircctor of liturgical music at Saint \llary's. 
An organizational meeting will be 1cld Thursday, at 3:30p.m., in the .(nights of Columbus building next u the bookstore. Information 

about the choir is available from Griffin (283-7066). 
"This choir," Griffin said, "should not be confused with the Urchins' Mass. There will be urchins in the Choir, and moppets too; but aside from urchinry and moppetry, this is a group who will take music seriously. 

"My hope is that there can be a ministry of music by the children to whoever would enjoy the sound of children singing," he added. ·'Children wishing to apply should call me or come to the meeting at the K. of C. building Thursday." 
ANllicSe<ViceofTtosNewsllaPer , & The Advertosing Council ~ 

Lie downand be counted. 
In America. 3% of the people give 100% of all the blood that's freely donated. 
Which means that if only 1% more people-maybe you­became donors, it would add over thirty percent more blood to America's voluntary bloodstream. 
Think of it I But forget arithmetic. Just concen­
trate on one.word . The word is Easy. Giving blood is easy. You hardly 
feel it (in fact, some people say they feel better physically after a blood donation). And, of course, everybody feels better 
emotionally. 
Because it's a great feel inn knowing your one easy blood donation has helped up to five other people to live. 
So how about it, 1% of America? Are you going to lie down and be counted? 
Call your local Red Cross Chapter, or your community's volunteer blood bank. We need you now. 
President Jimmy Carter signed up 51 times. 


Red Cross is counting on 

.----~----------­




TOUCH of O'NEILL 
Eugene O'Neill's "A Touch of the Poet" is about many things and touches many aspects of the experiences which we share as human beings. But the aspect that struck me the most, I suspect partly because I am a second semester senior, is the theme of dreams and the dreamer that pervades the play. 
"A Touch" centers around one day in the life of Cornelius Melody (Jack Camp­bell) and his family and friends--July 27, 1828. Melody owns a tavern in a small village a few miles from Boston which is being managed by his wife, Nora (Michele Roberge) and his daughter, Sara (Lisa Turco). Money is tight and the Melodies owe money to practically everyone in sight--the grocery store, the mortgage holder, and the feed store. Cornelius (known to his friends as "Con"), however, conceives of himself as a gentleman and a war hero and refuses to engage in the nitty-gritty of owning and running a tavern. Instead he rides his mare for hours on end, tells stories of how he was born in a castle "on the finest estate in the United Kingdom", and recounts his heroic adven­tures at the battle of Tallavera--where, nineteen years before, he had fought with "his majesty's Seventh Dragoon." 
Cornelius is a "dreamer", not in the sense of hoping in some future condition, but in the sense of one who lives in an imaginary world of the past. Cornelius, to use a common phrase, is living in a "dream-world." During the play we receive hints that he was not a very important figure in the battle he recounts, that he was expelled from the army because he tried to seduce a Spanish woman. "My future is in the past," Cornelius tells in Act Two, indicating that his conception of himself as an aristocrat is both of a self and an age that has ceased to exist. He is now in America and in an age that thinks little of aristocratic pretensions. In 1828 Andrew Jackson was elected President as a "man of the common folk." In addition, when Cornelius speaks of his future being in the past, he touches as we11 on the fact that the ''future", as a place or vision where one is headed, has meaning only for the young. For the old, the future is already deter­mined, the decisions of youth play them­selves out, and the aged are left to confront the reality of their lives with the dreams of their youth, 
Nora Melody, Cornelius' wife, aged and stooped from many years of back-breaking 
by Karl Kronebusch 

She thinks she has found this love with Simon Harford, who is himself a dreamer-­living alone out in the woods, contempla­ting nature and life, and then writing his book. Sara thinks that marrying him is her "one chance to rise in the world." Just like her father and mother, she dreams of rising, of advancing, ·of approaching conceptions of the ideal life, lover and livelihood we ca11 "dreams." 
In Act Four, Con finally gives up his aristocratic dreams, stops quoting Lord Byron, and shoots the mare that was the symbol of his gentle dreams. He stops his attempt to live the life of an English nobleman and drops his imitation of the speech of the gentry and resumes his native Irish brogue. He vows to stay in his labor for the service of her husband, feels such a confrontation. She had dreamed of upward mobility, of castles and carriages, of riches and finery and had married Con out of those dreams and out of the dream of love which she defines as "when you don't give a care for all the ifs and want-tos of your life." She is meek and saintly, never hesitating to sacrifice· herself for her husband or daughter. Hers is a very Christian self-sacrifice, an almost total self-abdegnation, that hopes for eternal happiness in heaven. But she despairs that her "sin" is the cause of all of Con's troubles. _ 
Sara Melody, the daughter of Con and Nora, dreams, too. She dreams of love-­that eternal curse and blessing of the human race. Her dream of love is to find a love that "gives me freedom not slavery." 
This jazz will neuer smell 
Frank Zappa once said, "Jazz is not 

deaditjustsmellsfunny.That was in 1974--a 
year of Herbie Hancock & Headhunters, 
Chick Corea & Return to Forever, and John 
McLaughlin & the Mahavishnu Orchestra. 
Now, I had always respected Francis as in 
institution in jazz (despite his basso grosso 
stage antics and his much-too-adagio 
moustache), but this time I had to 
disagree. I was convinced that jazz-rock 
would carry on th tradition of America's 
only true musical art form. Jazz would 
never "smell funny." 
Three years later, I found myself starting 

to sniff. Jazz-rock was turning into 
jazz-disco-Bob James and Stanley Turren­
tine were doing to jazz what new-wavers 
were doing to rock. And like all trash, it 
started to stink. 
Credit two men for saving jazz from an 

esoteric future: Herbie Hancock, with his 
V.S.O.P. double-albums, restated the pur­ity and validity of jazz-rock; and Norman Granz, producer for Pablo Records, brought the old jazz greats back in a blaze of glory called The Art of The Jam Session. 
"I've always felt that the jam session was the foundation of jazz," wrote Granz. The jam session is, indeed, what the concept of jazz is all about: musical improvisation, the transfer of human emotion into instrumental language, and the spontaneous generation of living, feeling atmosphere on stage. You'll never find that atmosphere in a New York disco, or on a slick, glossy, studio-recorded album, or at a stylized, choreographed, light-enhanced rock concert. Only with the 
jam session. And what better place to 
record true jazz that in Switzerland during 
the Mantreaux Jazz Festival. 
Granz took the Mountain Recording crew to Montreaux the week of July 10, 1977, and walked away with 14 albums scheduled for release, one a 2-lp set. Seven of these albums were reissued in The Montreaux Collection 1977; the other eight make-up The Art of The Jam Session (Pablo 2620-106), an eight record collection of the finest live jazz to be sent to the record stores in a decade. Included in this Pablo masterpiece are many of the greatest jazz musicians still alive, (I hate lists, but here goes): Oscar Peterson, Monty Alexander, Count Basie (piano); Dizzy Gillespie, Jon Faddis, Roy Eldridge (trumpet); Clark Terry(trumpet & flugelhorn); Vic Dicken­son, AI Grey (trombone); Benny Carter (alto Sax); Milst Jackson (vibes); Joe Pass(electric guitar); Niels Pederson, Ray Brown (acoustic bass); Bobby Druham, Jimmie Smith (drums). 
Record One, Side One, Cut One: a tune which sets the tempo for this amazing collection, "Ali and Frazier" by the Oscar Peterson Group. Dizzy Gillespie and Clark Terry beat each other with their horns while Oscar peels the ivory off the Bosendorfer concert grand. Highlighted is the amazing and, sadly, unknown Niels­Henning, Orsted Pederson, who easily gets the award for the fastest bass solo ever recorded. Follow that with numbers like "Things Ain't What They Used To Be," featuring the smooth-as-silk tenor of "lockjaw" Davis, and a version of "Mack The Knife'' that sends the Darren and. Sinatra renditions to the wastecan. 
Next up is the Milt Jackson/Ray Brown Jam. "Slippery" and "C.M.J." prove that Jackson belongs in the same class as Lionel Hampton and Gary Burton. "You are My Sunshine" gives everyone a shot at the solo mike, including the mellow Terry on flugelhorn and Davis' satiny sax. "That's The Way It Is"features Monty Alexander's incredible keyboards, plus one of the greatest bassists of all time, Ray Brown, Clark Terry also entertains with occasional scat singing.
Peterson, Jackson, and Pederson sparkle 

I~!:~~·A41!~!4~ 
MONTREUX '77 

during the Pablo All Stars Jam. Check out 
Bobby Durham on drums (I don't know 
how he keeps up with Oscar and Niels). 
Also note guitarist Joe Pass, who usually 
performs solo; he is the epitome of grac~ 
on "Samba De Orfeu." A surprise is tenor 
sax-man Ronnie Scott (of the London jazz 
club of the same name), who rarely is 
recorded while jamming. Other selections 
in this set include "Cote d'Azur," a very 
impressive "Pennies From Heaven," and 
Billie Holiday's "God Bless the Child," 
featuring a spirited solo by Terry. 
Brown, Alexander and Jimmie Smith 
provide the rhythm for the Dizz & Co. This 
jam is an exhausting duel between Mr.. 
Jowls and Jon Faddis, the energy of the 
younger only debatably outdone by the 
ageless Gillespie. Numero Uno in this set 
is the medley, "Once In A While/But 
Beautiful/Here's That Rainy Day." 
The Count Basie Jam may not be the most technically perfect set, but it is the most fun. The Count and his crew have a reputation for being loose and enthusiastic
..... 
by Frank Laurino 
on stage. The mikes often picked up joking 
and other nonsense in the background~­
something characteristic of many Basie 
recordings. "Bookie Blues" throws the 
forgotten Zoot Sims into the forefront 
where he belongs. Trombonists AI Grey 
and Vic Dickenson are beautiful compleme­
ments to each other throughout the jam. 

But by far, the most enjoyable cuts are 
"Trio Blues" and "Jumpin' At The 
Woodside." "Trio Blues" is a recorded 
rarity (Basie rarely performs in trio) and is 
highlighted by the Count's impish tinkling 
on piano. Basie is not as fast as, say, 
Peterson, but where Oscar delights with 
dazzling runs, Basie highlights and amuses 
with his famous sprinkling of the keys. 

Follow that with "Jumpin' At The Wood­
side," a fast little melody not unlike a 
Gong Show and ND b-ball home game 
classic. 

Record 8 features Oscar Peterson on piano with bassists Ray Brown and Niels Pederson. Brown and Pederson attempted the bass duet during the 1975 Pablo Europe Jazz Festival, but the effect was muddled and confusing. At Pederson's suggestion, the two bass greats traded licks while accompanying the piano. This resulted in an unusual and exciting set of Oscar's graceful chords, Niels' short, lchoppy passages, and Ray's full, booming tones. Particularly noteworthy are "You Look Good To Me," "Reunion Blues," in which Pederson and Brown play a section together, and the classic ''Sweet Georgia 
Brown," which sports a solo by Oscar. 

The Art Of The Jam Session: 4 hours, 53 
minutes and 51 seconds of jazz in its purest 
form. You can tag all the old cliches on this 
Norman Granz production--amazing, mon­
umental, exciting, timely--but they're not 
adequate. Granz went out on a limb with 
the Pablo 1977 Montreaux series. A great 
deal of time and money went into the 
recording, production, and distribution of 
this collection. The 1977 Montreaux series 
is perhaps Granz's biggest gamble: 14 
albums cost the consumer big bucks; so do 
multiple-record sets at $40-plus a chunk 
(such as The Art Of The Jam Session]. 

And with jazz no longer in the forefront of 
musical popularity,Pablo'smassive record­
ing session could have easily been one big 
monetary flor. 

The Art 0 The Jam Session is a major documentary of a milestone event, and follows the Pablo tradition of recording some of the finest music ever written--per­formed by some of the finest musicians in the world. f h .
If any o t ese sets sutts your fancy, snatch up the individual release. But if you want to make a true investment in art, The Art Of The Jam Session is a must. It's got high-quality production, high-quality artists...and, best of all, high-quality
must c . 
Hold fast to dreams, 
For Ifdreams die 
Ufe Is a broken-winged bird 
That cannot fly. 

·-Langston Hughes ··proper position from this day on." And argues that "It's to hell with honor if you want to rise in this world." Con's dreams had had an obvious sense of dishonesty about them, a dishonesty immediately recognizable. However, the audience at the end of the play must still wonder about the status of the other dreams--the religious self-sacrificing dreams of Nora, and Sara's dreams of love. They, like Con's dreams, may also be inaccessible, unachievable. Approaching the future, it seems, we need dreams and visions, but those dreams will ultimately remained unfulfilled. 
·­
-
.Dear Sirs: 
I bave du]y .l'loted y-ou:r request for fi11~cilll a.ic£ fbr your uniVel",si t y. 
By revit!Wibg yotrr 

Urdversit,.Y C011fid~ntia 1 S"ta.teme11t, I h2ve de­
terPii11ed a.n a.motm-b th.a.t would suit your 
Jl("eds. 

I regret to report that you ao !lOt . qua.li£y for SCJ:ch .tzd. 




,---~~~~-------------....... -~ ­
~ ~ . 'I 
the obMryar fuesday, February 28, 1978
8 



The program is designed to aid
Donald Hagman, UCLA professor, presented "The White Curtain 
people who wish to improve their
Disadvantaging local Government Boundary Practices" yesterday 
· hool hoto b Dou Christian 



Local IRS expects long linfes 
Students consulting the South Bend Internal Revenue Service (IRS) at 1317 Mishawaka Ave. for assistance with filing tax returns this year may have a long wait. Last tax filing period. 5,694 people stopped by the local IRS office for help. Many faced a long wait. 
"This year, it could be worse," said James Christopher, of the IRS headquarters office in Indianapolis. "We project waiting times for many offices will exceed an hour this year." 
Christopher, head of Taxpayer Service Division, explained. "We think we'll get more people need­ing help because of tax law changes 

~ in the last few years. This would mean longer waits." 
He suggests that taxpayers check the instructions in their tax package. If still in need of assis­tance, persons should call ms on any of their toll-free telephone lines. Christopher said IRS is trying to discourage people from coming to their offices unnecessarily, be­cause IRS can help them faster on the telephone. He noted IRS can give aid to four tel,:phone callers in the time it takes to help one taxpayer in person. 
Last year .there werl· complaints about ho1.1. long it took IHS to answer the phones. Christopher explained that "during peak traf­fic, we receive 7,000 to 8,000 calls a day. That averages one call every four seconds. So there arc times when you'll get a busy signal or a recording." 
"Waiting for 30 seconds on the phone seems like forever, but it's quicker than travelling to an IRS office, maybe waiting an hour, and travelling home," he noted. 
All toll-free calls from Indiana got to the Indianapolis oftice, where 74 employees spend their eight-hour .day answering tax­payers' questions. This contrasts 'iharply with the three employees. assigned to the South Bend office 
AROTC awards scholarships 

Army ROTC has awarded 12 Notre Dame studl·nts scholarships covering tuition. bc"1k~ and fc·es, as well as a $100 monthly stipend for the remainder of their lll>rmal undergraduate careers. 
The students, who will serv':" as ofticcrs in the U.S. Army after graduating from Notre Dame, are junior Mark Byrd; and sophomores 
~ ~John Foley, Michael Gazzerro, 
·~ichacl Lescur, David Nield, Timothy O'Brien, Robert Reynolds, John Schrank, Susan Sebolrl, Peter Steiner, Michael Tuohy, and Michael Walsh. 
t...· ...... 
w...l 

A Touch of ;the Poet
I 

t-
Eugene O'Neill's search for his roots. Feb., 24,25 Mar. 2,3,4 at 8
SMC
THE A T R E All seats $2.50 Phone: 
$2 std-fac-staff 284-4176 Olaughlin Aud. 
NOTICE GOING OUT OF BUSINESS SALE 
116 S. Michigan 
art supplies 
QOl 
office supplies 3 l ( engineering supplies OFF 
,_____-··· ·---_, 
CASH OI..JLY-FIRST COME, RRST SERVE 
-Corby's 
~ ..;\-

•••• 
Corbys
and 
.. --· -....­
~ 
Anheuser Busch Present 

9--10 o'clock: when you buy 2 cans of Michelob at soe each, 9 • 3 you get one 8oz Bud FREE 
10-3 o'clock: Michelob cans soe each Michelob drafts soe each 
Also, a raffle will be held. Aizes'indude mirror, 
Tee-shirt, Beer signs, posters, et~ 
,
.-·.•.. ­


Shyness workshops planned 
by Molly Woulfe Staff Reporter 
The counseling departments of Saint Mary's and Notre Dame are offering a sequence of eight ninety­minute workshops on coping with shyness. Gail Ritchie, SMC assist­ant director of counseling, and Michael Mond, assistant profes­sional specialist of ND's Psycholog­ical Services Center, will conduct the sessions. 
We sense there's a need for this," Ritchie explained. "We know that most people do experi­ence shyness in their lives. We're attempting to teach the skills necessary to enhance social rela­
tionships."  
"We want students  to  develop  
these  skills  and  also  to  practice  
them," Mond added.  

interested students should call Mrs. Apt at 4-1-4836 by March 7 to arrange for a brief "information exchange"--so they'll know what we're tryingto do, and what we expect," Ritchie commented. Ten to twelve students will be selected to participate in the program. 
social and relatiom:~ip skills, who these skills will include discus­
have difficulty in meeting others, sions, written hand-outs, role-play­
and who lack confidence in them­ing and homework assignments. selves. 
Students are encouraged to call 
The specific skills taught include for an "information exchange" this handling silences, making requests 
week. The first session will be held 
and giving and accepting compli­March 9 at 6:30 p.m. in the ND ments. Techniques used to teach Counseling Center. 
FEATURES...cont'd 
Bob Weir, rhythm guitarist of Grateful Dead fame, has released a solo LP entitled Heaven Help the Fool. Bob cut the album without any help from his Grateful Dead friends, but he did enlist jazz musician Tom Scott on a majority of the cuts. The first song, "Bombs Away," is a quick, lighthearted song with an excellent jazz-rock beat. "Easy to Slip" is a mellow song about a man's problems in dealing with feelings of isolation. "Salt Lake City" is a solid rocker in the tradition of "One more Satur­day Night" and "Samson and Delilah" (from the most recent 

Volunteers with your background are needed for VISTA and PEACE CORPS. Sign up today at Placement Office for a talk with VISTA and PEACE CORPS reps on campus: 
Feb 28-March 2 in the Library Concourse and March 1-2 at the Placement Center. 
Sign up NOW for an interview. 
Grateful Dead LP Terrapin Sta­tion.) 
Side two opens with the title cut; this superb song seems to be an autobiographical piece. "This Time Forever" is a: nondescript song without any trace of a melody; luckily it do..;s not last forever. The album breaks into "I'll Be Dog­gone," a quick, lively and fun-lov­ing song, and then closes on a high note with "Wrong Way Feeling." Tom Scott again becomes an inte­gral part of this jazzy number. Thjis song serves as a fitting way to end a very strong album. 
to help walk-in traffic. 
Visitors will receive help in the order of the simplicity of their returns. This means, Christopher said, "The first ones we get to will be the 1040A. Then the 1040. If anybody comes in with a complex form, like a farm or business return, we won't turn them away, but they may have to wait until we can get to them." 
The IRS toll-free number in South Bend is 232-3981. The best time to call, Christopher conclu­ded, is either early in the morning or late in the afternoon. 
With Special Guest Star 


BOB WELCH 

also CLOVER . WEDNESDAY MARCH 15 -7:30pm 
NOTRE DAME ACC  
All Seats Reserved:  $7.00 S $6.00  ..  
On Sale Now at Student Ticket  )  
Offace and at ACC Box Office  


~ ,~----·---­
Tuesday, February 28, 1978 

the observer 

7 
Carter welcomes governors for energy talks 
W ASBINGTON [AP] -President Carter welcomed the nation's governors to join in formulation of energy policy yesterday but said the ultimate decisions are global in character and will not be easy. 
Carter welcomed the governors te a White House coaference on en«gy production, sayilag he was "*Y gnteful to have you joiR in" 011 what 1te called "one of the most important questions that our nation faces." 
"It is not something that is an exclusive federal program as you well know," Carter told the ga­thering. "And the answers are not exclusively here in Washington." 
Carter said no matter what the federal or state governments may decide in response to the pressures on them, "the future energy cir-
Prlnster family donates gift 
A $300,000 gift from members of the Prinster family will enable Notre Dame to help gifted but needy students. 
The Prinster Scholarship Fund will eventually provide financial assistance to students in each of the four undergraduate years. The gift comes from Mr. and Mrs. Joseph C. Prinster; Mr. and Mrs. Leo T. Prinster; Ms. Martha Prinster; Mr. and Mrs. Frank Prinster, and Mrs. Josephine Prinster DeOnier. 
The Prinsters, who have had two sons and a daughter of the family graduate from Notre Dame, oper­ate the City Market Stores, a grocery chain headquartered in Grand Junction, CO. 
In accepting the benefaction, Fr. Theodore M. Hesburgh, University president, said, "As the costs of education have esculated, Notre Dame has been hard-pressed to fill the gap between those costs and the students' to pay. The Prinsters 
generous gift will help insure that the most qualified students attend here, regardless of their financial resources." 
The University's five-year devel­opment effort, The Campaign for Notre Dame, is seeking $12 million to meet the cost of student financial aid. To date, more than $83 million has been pledged toward the Campaign's $130 million overall 
oal. 
cumstances are going to be shaped 
pervasively by what other people 
around the world decide." 
The president, whose initial en­
ergy package has been dead-locked 
in Congress for months, said he 
still felt there was general agree­
menton the Msic dements, inchl­
di!Jg balaacing . co:nservatiott 
alainst developlleftt needs, and "a 
shift from rapidly fpleting 
sources Of energy to thost! that are 
more plentiful in supply.'' 
The govenwrs had gone into the 
meeting pressing demands for 
federal action to step up energy 
production and for less federal 
intederence in their own develop­
ment efforts.. 

The White House meeting, sec­
ond in a two-day conference on energy production, followed a speech by Secretary of State Cyrus ~ Vance which called fer promotion of domestic energy to relieve the 
dependence on Arab oil . 
The governors expressed the same concern to Carter, saying "It is essential that we develop all possible sources of domestic oil and gas consistent with our environ­meatal goals, to protect ourselves against future embargoes atUltel­lew 115 to meet ovt fuel aeeds:" 
~ govet1Mir8, ~ •··
wmW ~ ~tm, • tile, Natienal GoVemQI"S Assedatioft, · · · Jdso de­manded mot:e aggressive pursuit of alternative energy forms such as solar and nuclear. 
The White Houl>e sessions had 
heen demanded by the governors 
for the past year in an effort to 
focus attention on e~~ergy produc­
tion needs. The legislative energy 
package Carter submitted last year 
leans heavily toward conservation. 
The preliminary reports issued . by the governors questioned whe­ther the administration's oil and 
gas production goals can actually
be achieved under the Carter plan. 
~ 


VISTA needs lawyers & law School grads to work in housing, welfare, legal aid, and other areas. Sign up today at Placement Office for a talk with recruiter on campus: 
Feb 28-March 2 in the Library Concou1rse and March 1-2 at' the Placement Center. 
Sign up NOW for an interview. 

CLASSIFIED ADS 
NOTICES 

Attention NO Judo Club members. Judogi prices as follows: LW2 -12.75; LW3-13.50; LW4-14.50; HW3-16.50; HW4 ·17.50. Make checks payable to NO Judo Club. Add $3.00 promotion fee. Payments due Mon or Wed. 
Typing done in home. Fast accurate, reasonable. close to campus. Cali 272­7866 anytime. 
Lenten confessions heard Monday thru Saturday at Sacred Heart beginning ~t 7 
p.m. Anyone wishing to make appomt­ment for confession may phone Campus Ministry at 6536 or 3820. 
Every student can vote in the ~ay Indiana primary -If interested, reg1ster before spring break by calling Mo at 4-1-4001. 
Dissertations, manuscripts, paper typed. IBM Selection II. Linda's Letters. 287­4971. 
Typing. Reasonable rates. Call 8051. 
Accurate, fast typing. MRS. DONOHO 232-0746 Hours 8a.m. to 6 p.m. 
Typing Done Reasonable Rates Call8086 

MORRISSEY LOAN FUNO Student loans at 1 percent monthly interest $2Q-150. 1 day wait. Due in 30 days. LaFortune Basement 11:15-12:15 M-F 
One roommate to share Campus View apartment. Please call 277-3509. 
NEED QUALITY TYPING? Executary, Inc. Professional Typing Service IBM Correcting Selectrics. $.85 per page minimum. Call 232-0898 "When you want the Best" Resumes: $3.00 per ,page 
FOR RENT  
Sam Willis  
O.H.O.  

LOST I FOUND 
Lost: A calculator during Econ. test 2-23. If you picked up one, not yours. Call 3506. 
Lost: Men's digital wristwatch at Library Bar. Will identify engravings. Reward. 4-4904. 
Found: Silver & turquoise ring in Rm. 116 O'Shag. Call Mike 1535 to cleim. 
1 pair of desert boots lost at ACC. Call Craig at 8862. 
Lost: One expensive black ski glove (right hand). Lost near North Dining Hall on Tuesday, Feb. 21. A great service to my hand if returned. Call 1653. 
WANTEO 
GA tix for Loyola. Cali Jack 1724. 
Need ride to Tampa-St. Pete for spring break. Bob 1145. 
Riders to-from Ft. Lauderdale for spring break. 24 ft. Winnebago. Call Abe 287-4828. 
Need ride for three to the 'Big Apple' New York City for spring break. We can't afford the train so call Tom, Doug or John 3414. 
HOTLINE VOLUNTEERS NEEDED! Be­coma aHotline listener and learn skills to help people in our community. Next training begins March 21 and goes thru April&, Tuesday and Thursday evenings. Arrangements will be made for any SMC-ND students who will be gone over break. interested? Call Hotline 232-3344. 
Need ride far 2 to Ft. Lauderdale for spring br111k. Call 4774 [SMC] 
Work in Japan. Teach English conversa· tion. No experience, degree, or Japanese required. Send long, stamped, self­addressed envelope for details. Japan ­181, 411 W. Center, Centralia, WA 
98531. 
Need 4 GA tickets to any weekend home basketball game. Call 4+5745. 
OVERSEAS JOBS -Summer-year·round Europe, S. America, Australia, Asia, etc. All fields, $500-1200 monthly, expenses paid, sightseeing. Free Information. Write: BHP Co., Box 4490, Dept. 14, Berkeley, CA 94704. 
Ride needed to New Orleans for break. Call Max 3360. 
Need ride to Bloomington or Dayton March 3. Call 8403. 
Ride needed to Dayton Mar. 3 for UD· NO game. Call Steve 2120. 
Please! Need ride to Dallas for break. Jini 1323. 
Need riders to Florida. 232·8780 Phil. Leave name & number. 
FOR SALE 
Steal your remaining books for the semester. Pandora's is having ahalf price used book sale. Selected new books (Tom Robbins, Doonesbury, etc.) at 25 percentoff. Down from Corby's 233-2342. 
Ski boots. Size 9.5. Made by Kastinger. Call 3664 -Don 
Full color Cotton Bowl pictures now available. Call 8982. 
"The governors expressed con­cern that the finding rate for.oil and gas, used in making the plan's supply forecasts, was overly. opti­mistic," they said. 
The demand for a more reliable 
future supply of fuel has ken a 
sensitive issue aniallt the gover­
~.-especia11y th-.e.U.. ~.:~.~
ilad'·• close schools HiJi · · · 
•iMustl!y because ef the ~ ·strike · '" ·· ·,. · 
Th~ white House discus~~ have drawn demands for a blgger >tate role in the leasing of 'ooal and oil reserves as well as fpr fewer federal regulations on en~rgy con­
. cerns. 
1 

"States should be the fooal:.point and final decision makel' on· their 
. energy development needs,,,, the governors' papers contended. · Vance told the govern9fs that all 
·

Top ac·co·untI. n g ,,.rm 
· ~ 

supports feIlowship 
the initiatives being taken toward international trade improvements cannot solve this country's econom­ic problems unless they are matched by an effective national energy policy -including the in­creased domestic production the , 
· ge¥entors are demaruting. . · . 4~ 
i;:~~s,Z~ .~.Je:a:e~::;; -~J 
unchecketl appetite for . foreip •. ·. 
oil ... we will not begin to reverse 
the $30 billion U.S. trade deficit. 
"We must take the difficult steps that are required to re4uce eur , requirements for imported oil and to promote the development of other energy sources," Vance said. Vance also said the administra­tion will not yield to protectionist demands from some elements of labor and industry being hurt by 
foreign competition. 

One of the nation's leading ac­counting firms, Coopers and Ly­brand, announced support today of a $100,000 faculty research fellow­ship in the College of Business Administration. 
Brother Leo V. Ryan, dean of the College and Robert W. Williamson, Jr., chairman of the department of Accountancy, said the gift would support a faculty member for concentrated research on a specific project. The project will be approved in advance by competi­tion within the faculty and recom­mended by a faculty committee. 
At the same time, the accounting firm has designated Notre Dame as one of ten target universities in the country for accelerated recruiting and support. 
Representatives of the firm have made periodic visits to the campus in an effort to recruit senior accountancy students in the past. 
Monetary gifts of graduates em­ployed by the firm are matched by Coopers and Lybrand. 
Preliminary planning for the Coopers and Lybrand fellowship provides for released time and research funds for the faculty member selected to conduct the project. 
It is expected the project would be 
'65 Chevy Impala 327, 45,000 original miles. Great mechanical shape, clean, no dents, very little rust. Many new parts. Priced to sell, $800. 283-8830 evenings. 
Why pay more? Flanner Records haS all $7.98 list LP's for only $5.29. All $6.98 list LP's for only $4.59. (plus tax) Flanner Records 322 Fianner Phone 2741.' 
PERSONALS 

HEY ZAHM!I Better ideas for a better hall! Vote Bruce Boirin and Doug Christian. 
Barkles: Thanks for taking us out to eat. JP,BS,TC 
Brian Ward, I hope you won't feel left out any longer. 
Sam, Previous ad is not mine. I'm being nice this week. 
G 

Sorry Jerry, I told you to leave your list in an envelope on your desk but you blew it. Now you'll have to wait until next week to get revenge. Otherwise you can just give your you:know-whats to Rick. AG 
My Little Blonde Puckered One: Stefie says it's worthwhile. Is it true? 
Announcing the formation of the Pachy­derm Club. Interested? Call Joe F. at thje Alumni Travelodge 1173. 
---~-------------­
!l.ndersen, I know that's you!! G 
My little Buddy (a.k.a. Ralph), Now that I know you're schlongiess, I'll have to resort to the Big 0. 
Graham in Greely 
My Little Blond Pucker -----. 
Give Ed Loseski a call at 1175 and help him come out of his shell. He is so shy. 
Is it true that Tim Charlebois was born with hair on his chest? He's macho! 
completed during a semester and a summer, or two semesters of part time teaching and a full summer session. 
Several senior partners of Coopers and Lybrand are visiting the campus this week participati';lg in briefings the College of Busm~ss Administration and the University. 

Program planned for undecided 
· 


students 

"A Major Decision", a program designed for students who are undecided about their major, will be presented next Monday from 6 
. to 7:3Q p.m. in Regina Auditorium. 
The program is an opportunity to talk informally to other students and faculty members about dif­ferent majors offered at Saint Mary's and sponsored by the Career Development Center, the office of Academic Affairs, the Freshman office, and the Student Government Academic Board. 
G. A. Gumby: For your birthday present, there are two things to do. One. order something you want. Two, get something you lost. Ah ­three things· remember November 19. J. 
L. Gumby 

Desperately 111111 ride til So. Bend at night. Calll-2, will pay. 233-7949. 
Saphomlrlsl Gym aborts and formll 
tlckats. an llle tills welk 12-4 In the ella 
office In Lafartutll. 

Debbie, Maureen, Tom, Andy, George, Jerry, Doris, Telara, Mo, Jeanne, 3rd floor McCandless, & everyone else who attented the party in 308 McCandless Saturday night. Thanks for making my 21st birthday absolutely terrific!! Lynn 
P.S. Loved that cake! 
Tom Clarkson, Looking for someone to write you a character reference is like Diogenes looking for an honest man. Your Fiancee 
·-------­Andy P., The rabbit died. What should I do? Maureen 
Gus and Drew, Whatever happened to Buffy? Sue and Marilyn 
Looking tor action? Julia, Dan 1nd Doug would like to help change your IHe. Check us aut! Ubrary Concourse -Tue., Wed., . &Thur. 
Now is the time for all uglies to get those pennies. 
Ugly man Is coming save your pennied. 
UMOC is on the prowl! Call 2195 for details. 
DONNA SEBASTIAN: Forget physics ­have a great 21st! Love, Mares I & II, Clare, MB, Maria and Sue 
Sheila, Happy 20th! Next year you'll be able to hit Cinnabars instead. Ain't that great. That Puerto Rican 
A 4:30 a.m. phone call can only be appreciated if the caller says those 3 rna ic words. Thank you. 
...•.·.' 
Tuesday, February 28, 1978
the observer 

by Leo Latz fans still maintain that Roemer may 
Sports Writer have been using an Ali "rope-a­
dope" tactic, and he wasn't really 
''Strong bodies fight. so that weak hurt. 

bodies may be nourished." The One of the most historic matches 
words of ·Dominic J. "Nappy" in Bengal Bout lore was only 
Napolitano express the true pur­exhibition bout. But what an exhib­
pose of the Bengal Bouts. The ition of boxing prowess! John and 
47-vear historv of the bouts has Bob McGrath, two of the five 
e:piiomizcd noi only the real mean­"Fighting Mc'grath" brothers of 
ing of charity. but the spirit of Fenwick High School in Oak Park, 
athletic competition at its finest. Ill.. met in a slugfest that ended 
Proceeds from the Bengal Bouts, mercifully with the final bell. it 
which begin this Sunday at the could be one of the finest Bengal 
ACT. have been donated to the battles ever. 
Holy Cross Missions in Bangladesh Some of the more recent Bengal 
f,lr the past 46 years. last year's classics include the Doug Becker­
Bengals raised well over $17.000. Jimmie Browner and Ken Mac 
the highest sum in its colorful Afee-Ross Browner clashes of 
histor\. The benefits of this dona­1976. Both title bouts are sure to 
tion are manv as five dollars can down as two of the most fiercly 
feed 1.800 persons a day on a high fought bouts in Bengal annals. 
protein gruel which is the differ­Boxing candidates from the Irish 
L'llL'e hetween living and dying for gridiron are nothing new to the 
the Bangladesh poor. Bengals. "Rockne started the box­
The Bengals are a lifeline for the ing program in the winter for the 
man~· unfortunate in Bangladesh. football squad," recollects Napoli­
and similarly. it is the enthusiasm tano. ''I took the program over in 
and dedicaion of tournament dir­1931 and the football squad would 
ecor Napolitano that has acted ad be turned over to me for five or six 
the nourishment for the Bengal weeks for the training routine of 
Bouts. The ideals that Nappy stand boxing. wrestling and sprints in the Ken MacAfee in 1976 Bengal Bout action 
for--charity. hard work. and sports­old days." impression tlhat this was the best Notre Dame. ing away from their usual gridiron 
manship--are synonymous with the From the legendary days of amateur boxing in the nation. Tom Suddes, the Director of activities will by Tom Flynn, Kim 
lkngals. Since the days in 1931. Layden and leagy to the "era of Budd Schulberg. a noted boxing Development at Notre Dame and a Uniacke, Pat Boggs and Scott 
"hen the Bengals began as one Ara". Nappy has been responsible expert and sports columnist. wrote two-time Bengal champion, has Zettek. With nine returning final-
night smokers in the Old Field­for the winter conditioning of many in a 1955 issue of Sports lliustrated: grown very close to Nappy and the ists and past champions Tony Ricci, 
IH;use. Napp~· has been the driving a gridiron great. But the football "Go see the Notre Dame Bengal Bengal Bouts. A 1971 graduate, he Brian Kilb, Joe Cooler, Pat O'Con­
force hehind the bouts. When the players were not the only ones to Bouts. You'll see boys battling was the boxing club president his nell and heavyweight John Vellu­
late Knute Rockne initiated a come under the tutelage of Napoli­harder for the University champ-senior year and he has enthusiasti-tato. the Bengal bouts are the place 
hoxing program at the University in tano. Since the Bengals' inception. ionships than some heavyweights cally worked with the bouts the to be in March. 
1923. he could not have envisioned more than a thousand alumni have have fought for the championship past five years as a referee and ***** ************ 
its remarkable success. due to the stepped into the ring. Now they of the world. You will see contest-coach. Tickets for the Bengal series 
tlirection of Nappy. represent a myriad of vocations as ants beautifully conditioned and The rest of the staff includes. (March 5,7, and 10) will be 
The Bengals do indeed have a doctors. lawyers. writers and pri­boxing under rules of safety pre-promoter Richard Hunter with available at the dining halls and 
glorious history. One of the most ests. "His boys" as Nappy affec­caution that have precluded any coaches George Van Der Heyden, from the Bengal Boxers this week 
memorable clashes occured when tionately calls them-still maintain a serious injury in the quarter-ceo-Roland Chamblee, Terry Johnson, for two dollars. This year's heavy-
Bill (Zip) Roemer. brother of Dean steady correspondence that fills tury history of the bouts. Here are Dr. Chartles Rice and the younger weight division looks to be one of 
Roemer. met Gus Cifelli. uncle of a many a file cabinet drawer in the boys who will fight their hearts out Suddes, Mike, a former Bengals the most competitive ever as 
present Bengal bouter. Roemer ACC. in the tournament for pride and the champion who has come back to returning champion Vellutato, foot-
was seeking his fifth title. but The Bengals has also attracted pure sport of it.'' Notre Dame to be a part of the bailers Boggs (6-2, 221) and Zettek 
Cifelli charged out and blazed away many of the greatest names in Today. the Bengals has grown to a bouts. (6-5, 239) and 6-6law student Mike 
with tenacious flurries to Roemer's boxing journalism to the Bouts. program which involves over 70 The boxing club officers are Joe Riley head the slate for the heaviest 
head and bodv. During the fifties. such boxing aspiring students and sends close Cooler, Dan Romano, Mike Tho-division...the Bengal Bouts pre-
Roemer. out~·eighed by 65 pou­greats as Rocky Marciano. Tony to $20,000 each year to the Bangia-mas and Mike Murphy. They are view will appear in this Thursday's 
nds. covered up and raised both his Zale. Carmen Basilio. Barney Ross. desh missions. With a program of part of a field of boxers which Observer-a complete division by 
arms in front of his head. Cifelli and Kid Gavelin have appeared at these dimensions. Nappy has one should make this year's bouts one division rundown and champion 
won. but some old-time Bengal the Bengals. and all left with the of the most dedicated staffs at 


Grapplers lose to Boilermakers , 22-21 
b) Brian Beglane ··A few other wrestlers besides and he has _vet to lose since joining mvself will move down for the the team earlier this month. 
Sports Writer re.gionals. The main reason for it is "We were without Dave DiSa­
to be bigger and stronger at the bato (126) this past weekend and 
lower weight." noted the senior his absence hurt. He probabl)' 
After winning the Wheaton from Waukegan. Ill. would have won his match and that Tournament a week and a half ago Although it is beneficial for the would have changed things com­b\· only three-quarters of a point. postseason competition, getting pletely. It was disappointmg to end the Notre dame wrestling team down to the prescribed weight is no the season with a loss.·' noted probably thought it would not be easy task. Scpcta. in\'Oh·ed in close match for the rest ''The trick to moving down is to DiSabato will be ready for this of the season. The Irish did not stay healthy and keep your ha,·e to wait long. however, to be strength up in doing it. I wanted to 
namentattheAirForceAcademy.
im·olved in another h·airline decis­do it once before competing in the 
ion. NCAA tournament to be pre­~~~~~;r h1[;~~~t~:~Pf~e;h;h~a~;~~~~ ' • 
The Purdue Boilermakers pro­pared." continued McKillen, who be Pat landlfried. The senior from by Ted Robinson The Irish never led in last night's 
vided Notre Dame with its second has served as Irish co-captain for Greenville. Pa., suffered a broken Sports Writer game, as the Sioux took a 2-l lead 
need-and-neck match in as many the last two years. ankle on Jan. 14 and has been idle The Notre Dame hockey team after the first period. Terry 
weeks when the Irish travelled to Pat gave Notre Dame its first since. He will return at the suffered a major setback in its Fairholm, the team's leading goal­
West lafayette this past Saturday points in Saturday's match at I SO-pound spot. ~ quest to claim fifth place in the scorer, netted his 16th of the 
to close out their regular season. Purdue with his pin. The Irish had 'Landfried has all the ability and WCHA standings by losing to season for the Irish score. 
The positions were reversed, how­lost three straight up until then. would have an excellent at qualify­North Dakota, S-3, last night in North Dakota peppered Irish 
ever. as Notre Dame ended up on A Purdue win at 150 was ing if it were not for his injury. He Grand Forks, N.D. goalie Len Moher for three addi­
th<: short end of a 22-21 score. The followed by two straight wins for is still recovering, but still has a This unuaual Monday-Tuesday tional goals in. the second period 
lo!->s gave the Irish wrestlers a final Notre Dame. Padden pinned Dan good chance," commented Sepeta. series was necessitated by the offset by a Kevin Nugent goal for 
record of 8-S. Murphy in 3:08 while Bill Moore "I am hoping for five wrestlers to cancellation of the original series, the Irish and the Sioux carried a 5-2 
"The match was close all the way won the 167-pound class with a 7-3 qualify for sure for the NCAA scheduled for January 27-28, due to lead into the final stanza. and it is tough to lose by such a decision over Tom Trotter. finals. We have a few other the blizzard which prevented the Junior center Brian Burke scored small margin. We knew they were "I was very impressed with Bill wrestlers who could pull some Irish from leaving South Bend. his first Notre Dame career goal for going to be very tough, and 1t we Moore's win. He wrestled aggres­surprises, but generally I am As a result of a tight-checking, the only third period tally. had gotten a point here and there, sively and went right out and took optimistic as well as pessimistic. physical series with Michigan State Notre Dame, whose depth is then the outcome would have been the offensive," commented coach The contradiction was obvious, over the weekend, the Irish entered already suffering with the Joss of different." noted Irish Head Coach Sepeta. ''Padden had his opponent and Sepeta explained further. North Dakota nursing various Don Fairholm, Ted Weltzin and Ray Sepeta. on his back the whole time and ''This will be the first time in bumps and bruises that hampered Steve Schneider to injuries, suf­
Although the ND grapplers lost came through with a very nice three years that we are taking more the effectiveness of key players like fered a severe blow early in the by a point, they won only four of win." than one wrestler and this time it Terry fairholm, Geoff Collier and game when senior defenseman Don the ten matches. Three of those Moore's victory tied up the score will be a full team. We have not Don lucia. jackson was hit with a 5-minute wins were by fall, however, and at 15 going into the final three done that in quite a while so I am a North Dakota, coming off a spearing penalty and a game that provided the close margin. matches of the day. Purdue then bit wary." weekend split -at home against misconduct. The game misconduct 
Pat McKillen (142), Bob Golic came through with two wins at 177 Golic, Padden, McKillen, DiSa­Wisconsin, is tied for eighth place • will cause Jackson to sit out (HWT), and Mike Padden 058) and 190 to pull ahead by seven bato and Dreger are the five in the league with 22 points after tonight's game. combined to give the Irish18 valu­points. A major decision . in the wrestlers Sepeta thinks will make it last night's victory. And the Tonight, the Fighting sioux will able team points by pinning their 190-pound class provided the Boil­to the NCAA finals. They could be Fighting Sioux have one game in regain the services of defenseman opponents (six points for a win by ermakers with four team points and joined by a few more. If they are, hand on Michigan, the team they Scott Marvin, who sat out last fall). Golic and Padden needed just the one point margin of victory. then this will be the first time in a are tied with in the standings. night's game as the third game in a a little over three minutes ea<:h to Bob Golic's pin over Jeff Mason while the Irish have sent more than Meanwhile the Irish remained in progression game misconduct he pin their opponents while Me Killen in 3:04 was not enough for the a few wrestlers to the NCAA finals. sixth place one point behind fifth­received last weekend in Hough­went almost the whole distance Irish, as the seven point deficit was I don't think the Athletic Depart­place Colorado College with one ton. It was the third time Marvin before pinning Bruce Petit in 7:30. too much. For Golie, it was his ment will mind paying the extra game in hand, and two points had been ejected from a game this It was the first time McKillen has · eleventh win of the year. Nine of airfare to College Park, Md., for ahead of seventh-place Minnesota­year, thus he was forced to miss wrestled at 142 this year. those victories have been by fall the finals the weekend of Mar. 16. Duluth. three games. 
,,;,·(·.-.• ,1 •.•• ..;. 









