\
--_, 
HPC discusSes campus proposals 
by Dan letcher presented to Van W olvlear last would be a good thing." He problem. In it will be\ some little restraint on the Deap of 
Staff Reporter month, would redefine parietals as questioned the effectiveness of a "possible" answers. "Hopefully , StudentS," Vida concluded. 
a "hall" rather than "University"· student run business, and added by Thanksgiving the CLC will come DelGrande then-told the HPC 
Vice-President of Student Affairs offense. that there may be wage and up with th~ most \feasible solu-about a meeting he had with Dean Fr. John Van Wolvlear fielded J~'~ytnind is still not made up. I security problems. Roemer that centered around the questions from members of the 1lave to take the rectors 1nto Student Union Associate Direc­passing up of students duringHall Presidents Council (HPC) last eons:«J~aton,'' Van W olvlear said. tor Gene W oloshyn pointed out that Possible answeri football games. The meeting v:u night in Breen-Phillips Hall. ·-__ VMal:tY ~~ )(ery concerned over the campus press is an effectively the result of a letter \ Roemer Topics included the possibility of ~-~ ~ict~ , Bill Vida, St. Ed's J'Un student business. Woloshyn to overcrowding received from a girl who had two a Student Union operated re¢01'4 pres!9e~te~~sed :Van Wolvlear also commented .that "I do not see vertabrae broken while beingshop on c~>mpus, the padet41S fui11lerask:lligwby, ifthe CLC is an security as a problem.'' He noted passed up. proposal, -·-andthe·--·-ad\t'is~ groue QStensibly repre­that various renovations, including due by Ttlan1Csg1vlng The HPC agreed with DelGrande on-campus over-crowdjngpt~hlem~ $entali~ Of te~9t' opinion, Van a burglar alarm, were planned. and Roemer that this is very
Student Body Presic:Ient <~d),: WQl\1lear rieeds fu seek out all Regarding the dormitory over­tioli," he said. serious. They said they want 
crowding situation, VAn W olvlear Bill Vida then reviewed Sunday students to realize that "This
~~~::n£ofr~!~~:~:~:.t!ec~~·····-· ~,~,~~~~~~~do!::hha~~~ 

stated that at the next CLC meeting night's CLC proposal that would activity is very dangerous." alcoholic abuse program; Nilt:Qe•r -~atri1VQiv1eiltres~nc:Ied. He said a paper will be presented from the limit the directive power of the Next week's HPC meetitJg will 
· Housing office concerning the Dean of Students. "This will put a . be at 6:30 in Carroll Hall. 
i~~~l~::ri~uthi~r~;::::n=i;t ~V~~~f:~~~~=~ti~~:ad;~e 
to McKenna. He stated that ~'this ~f~Vb:lt tile ,prop()$al w-~l,lts to do is 
is only a rough draft~1)YeJt_-~--to_·_t_a_-_._-_¥_••••••_·_•_·•· )#t 'ql~ p~U jud·P,~ ~oatds handle the groundwork so we will ~e ~d~ tJji$,/1 he obs~rv¢4~i He went on to to get started immediately in the s~¥ ~t ~:~pe-has to r!nil;'ect each second semester." ·----mariwbohasritn thehallsfor many 
HPC Chairman Chuck Del years, Some are slow to adapt to Grande added that this ;shows a tij.e]udkial boardS.''_ _-___ committment to develop alcohol Van, Wolvlear added that he awareness. needs tQ til1k to ~ .-ec;t()tS because 

The
Van Wolvlear co;tnmended he is worried thaL''a Jl1isunder­McKenna and the HPC on the standing ~a,jf have ll~en" from program. '.'1 am very happy ron the student! rights fOrum last are attemptmg to do somethmg, I month. Som~ l'OOtorS, .he conjec­praise you and I thank you, •.• Van tured, thouglit that parietals were Wolvlear stated. being dropp¢4 eompletelY. He said 
In answer to a question abo~t the that further, · explanation to the developments on the CLC proposal rector~ is necessary. 

/Observerconcerning parietals, Yap Wolvlear The discu$si9n then turned to the stated that, "as of yet, no fotinal camptis bfok store proposal. Van an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's proposal has been presented to my Wolvlear began by stating that he V_ol. XIII, No. 40 Wednesday, November 1, 1978 office.'' The CLC proposals, did not think that ''the record shop 


Calls for controls 
AFL-CIO rejects program 
WASHINGTON [AP] • President The AFL-CIO's decision, and Tokyo, although it posted Jimmy Carter's anti-inflation pro­announced! after a meeting of .its modest gains in early trading in gram was rejected as inequitable executive council here, was a sharp Paris and London. The dollar and unfair yesterday by the AFL­rebuke to the administration, which · dropped to new lows against the CIO, which called for a special needs the cooperation of millions of Japanese yen, the Italian lire and session of Congress to impose workers to make its program work. the German mark. wage and price contr!,)ls. The giant labor union said Currency dealers said there were 
The labor federation's decision Carter's program of voluntary con­some early signs of recovery, and 

-came as the administration began trols on wages and prices do not the markets were reported calmer trying to implement its anti­"meet the principles of equity and than during Monday's frantic inflation plan with more detailed fairness," contending that in prac­dollar plunge. But a West German explanations of the voluntary tice it ~Oifld hold down only wages, dealer said that, "There's no restraints it is asking of workers not prlce!\. conscious change in the market.'' and businessmen. The union called for mandatory -In New York, the stock market Meanwhile, the world's money controls on wages, prices, divi­continued to drop as well. The Dow managers continued to show little dends, profit margins and interest Jones industrial average dropped confidence in the adminstration's rates as the only way to ensure 10.39 points to 801.46 by noon ability to bring the economy under .everyone suffers a fair share of the yesterday, and analysts continued control. The dollar fell to new lows burden. to blame the long slide on fears that in several countries, and the New Other economic news was mixed. the administration will be unable to York stock exchange continued its -The dollar continued its drop at cope with inflation. long slide. currency _exchanges in Frankfurt -The director of the Council on Wage and Price Stability said in New York that a ·recession is "absolutely inevitable" unless the administration can demonstrate within the next six months to a year that it can bring inflation under control. Barry Bosworth, the director, 


First prize went to this imaginative disguise in yesterday's said the adminstration must ignore 
Halloween Costume contest held at the SMC dining hall. [Photo [Continued on page 2] 
by Ken McAlpine] 

Arson fire destroys items 
by Mike Shields the University. He added that the "This won't hurt our social sche­
Staff Reporter club had maintained the boat­dule. We'll have a barbeque after house, having constructed a the races, and we'II still have a lot cement floor, repaired the roof, and of parties." · painted the structure. Condit is optimistic about the 
A deliberately-set fire that gut­The blaze has presented many spring racing season, scheduled to ted the Notre Dame boathouse last difficulties for the club, not the begin in February with the Notre Monday destroyed equipment least of which is the loss of the Dame Freshman Icebreaker, at owned by the Notre Dame Sailing storage facility. "The boathouse is which Notre Dame will host Club worth over $8000, according the biggest problem,'' Condit said. "around 12 or 13 other schools to Club Commodore Don Condit. "The sailing club has been using it from the Midwest. We hope to 
The boathouse, part of which for 40 years. The loss affects a lot have at least six of our.l2 boats in dated from 1890, contained most of · of people." the water by then," he added. the rigging for the club's 12 boats, Over 100 members of the saili,ng Condit described the Univer­including all the sails, booms, and club work out ofthe boathouse each sity's response to the club's plight rudders, Condit said. semester for sailing lessons and as "really cooperative" and 
"·Irreplaceable" trophies, life racing practice, he added. "encouraging." preservers, racing marks, sail racks Condit remarked that not much "We're relying on good will (to lockers, tools, spare parts, and a racing will be lost because of the help rebuild the club)," he said. "hot box," used for warming fire. "This fall's racing season The amount of financial assistance chilled swimmers, were also de­ends at Thanksgiving," he said. the University will supply is still stroyed, he added. All the lost The lost equipment will, however, uncertain, Condit added. items were uninsured. affect the annual Donohue Cup for The club had saved money to 
"We had accumulated the equip­Freshmen sailors. purchase nine new boats, Condit ment over the years," Condit said, The event, which is held on St. said. "In fact, we just sent the first explaining that the money for the Joseph's Lake, is planned this year payment in," he added. More 



Halloween brings out not only spooks and other scary creatures, equipment came from fund raising for· Dec. 10. "This year we'll money ·will have to be raised to but lovely beings as well. [Photo by Ken McAlpine] activities, membership dues, dona-borrow some oars and have rowing replace the damaged equipment, races•.'~ .Condit. joked, adding,. he said..
L.-----------------------.__.___.....,_ .tions, and fman_cial_asslstance from 

,.; '~ .----. r, ,.. ~~~~-----~-~.......~· ~· -.---;.-,-. 
' 
..... 
the observer 
,...News Briefs----.......... 



Strike threatens Iran 
TEHRAN, Inn-A strike by 37,000 refinery workers threatened. to cripple Iran's huge petroleum industry Tuesday. in the riot-tom country has reduced oil exports to the United States and other world markets by 40 percent, a government official said. 

Houdini returns? 
DETROIT • Devotees of Harry Houdini, the magician who died of a ruptured app_endix in 1926, say the. long dep~ed escape ar?st promised dunng a Halloween seance 1D the hospital where he d1ed that he'll be back next year -with even "We're not just a bunch of kids with a pumpkin," stressed seancer Mark McPherson. oreinted.'' 

Weather 
Partly sunny and pleasant today. Highs low to mid 60s. cool at night. Lows low to mid 30s. warmer. Highs mid to upper 60s. 

,..On Campus Today_-----.. 
9a.m.  nieuwland symposium, lectures by dr. herman e. schroeder, e.i. dupont denemours and co., prof.  
theodore crovello, nd and prof. paul j. florY., stanford u, spon by chem dept., cce.  
1:30 p.m.  nieuwland  symposium, lectures by dr. david s.  

applied chem, cce. 
3:25p.m. graduate seminar, "facilitates transport, improve separation efficiency," dr. 
3:30p.m. 
4:20p.m. 
5p.m. mass for all saints day, celebrant, sacred heart church. 5:15p.m. chapel. 6:30p.m. meeting, aiesec members, Iafortune 2nd floor. 6:30p.m. sailing dub meeting, 204 o'shag. 
6:30p.m. club, ace wrestling pit. 6:30p.m. nieuwland symposium, amer. chem soc., cce. 7, 9,11 p.m. aud., $1. 7p.m. lecture, "chicanos in california," by prof. refugio i. aud. 7p.m. meeting, baptist student union, bulla shed. 7p.m. meeting, delta phi alpha, little theater. 7:30 pit. 7:30p.m. american schwagmeyer, carroll hall, smc. 8p.m. philosphy lecture, "persons science fiction presentation richard rorty, galvin aud. 8:15p.m. concert, nd glee club, washington hall. midnight wsnd album hour, johnny and theasbury jukes," am 640. 




Wednesday, November 1, 1978 
SAINT LOUIS UNIVERSITY 


SCHOOL OF LAW
John Brademas 
Saint louis University is a private Jesuit University 

to address 
located in St. louis, Missouri. The School of law 
offers programs leading to the J.D., J.D./M.B.A., 


open public 
. 
J.D./M.H.A., and J.D./M.A. Urban Affairs. Students 
may elect courses concentrating in the areas of 
So far, the strike 
House majority whip John 
juvenile law, taxation, urban law, and commercial 
Brademas will speak tomorrow in 
the Library .lounge at 11 a.m. 
law. Clinical courses offer students valuable 
Brademas represents the Third 
practical experience in the areas of mental health, 
Congressional district in Indiana, 
which encompasses South Bend. 
employment discrimination, appellate practice, The presentation is open to the 
juvenile law and criminal law. 
public. 
Brademas will also attend a recep­
A representative of Saint Louis University School 
more amazing feats. 
tion with faculty members, spon­
of law will be on campus to meet with interested 
sored by the Notre Dame Govern­"This is very scientific and very research­
students.
ment Honor Society to be held at 
10:00 a.m. in the Notre Dame Library Lounge. 
Representative: Peter W. Salsich, Jr. 

Chairman, Admissions Committee
I 


AFL-CIO rejects 

Date and Time: Wednesday, November 8,1978
Oear and Sunny Thursday and slightly 
10:15 a.m. -4:00 p.m.


Carter 
To schedule an appointment please contact: 
Placement Office or Pre-Law Society The Saint louis University School of law admits students of any race, 

money program 
• 
color, and national or ethnic origin. 
[Continued from page 1] unemployment for now and tum its attention to cutting spending. If it fails to do so, Bosworth said, the country will face the worst reces­




Attention
sion of the post-war era. -In a bit of good news, the Organization for Economic Coope~ _ 


Saint}Aary's Students 
breslow, hercules research center, and prof. georges ration reported in Paris that U.S. 
J. smets, u of leuven and pres inti union of pure and 
energy imports fell 12.5 percent in the first eight months of 1978 

1978 Domes for sale at 1/2 price 
compared with the same period in a tool to 


Only '5.00
1977. 
j.a. mahoney, That i~ good news because the amoco oil co., spon chem engr., 269 chem engr bldg. 
gluttonous U.S. appetite for foreign 
Outside SMC Dining Hall 
energy contributes heavily to a seminar, "a theory of fiscal elastic anology for wave negative trade balance and 
Wednesday Nov. 1 4:30-Bpm
propagation in a layered medium," prof. t.c. ting, u weakens the dollar abroad. 
of iff., spon by aero and mech engr., 303 engr bldg. 
Thursday Nov. 2 4:30-Bpm 

colloquim, "the unusual behavior of glassy materi­

*The Observer
als at cryogenic temperatures," dr. a.c, anderson, u of ill., spon by physics dept., 118 nieuwland science. 

limited amount available 
rev william toohey, esc, Night Editor: Scoop Sullivan 
Asst. Night Editor: Patsyfasters mass, spon by world hunger coalition, walsh 

job opportunities
Campbell 
Sports layout: Paul Mullaney 
Typists: Bet Masana, Bill 
GOVERNMENT 
Swift, Mary Chustak, Katie Brehl Night Controller: Mardi Nevin 


CAREER DAY 
Day Editor: Marcia Kovasself defense classes, for beginners, spon by nd judo Copy Reader: Phil Cackley 
and a tired Mark Rust 
thursday, nov. 2 10 am.-4 pm. 
Ad layout: Flo O'Connell,reception and banquet, Sue Johnstonsoeaker anna j. harrison, mt. holyoke coli., and pres Photographer: Ken McAlpine 
Lafortune student center 
film, "abbott and costello meet frankenstein," engr 
University of Notre Dame Placement Bureau 
agricultural: the case of rochin, law school 


The Observer is published Mon­day through Friday except during exam end vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of Notre Dame end Saint 

The Notre Dome Judo Club


Mary's College. Subscriptions 
german club, Iafortune 
may be purchesPd for $20 per year (S 1 0 per semester) from The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre 

Invites you to attend 
Dame, Indiana 46556. Second 
class postage paid, Notre Dame,
judo classes, beginners and advanced, ace wrestling 
Judo and Self-Defense classes.
Indian., 46556. . The Observer Is • member of the Anocleted Pren. All rwpro· 
scene cultural series, lecture by patricia 
duction rights erw reserved. 
We have something for everyone: 
without minds; a 


·Separate Sef Self-Defense Class 
of materialism," by 
The 

·Physical Conditioning
Windjam_mer 
·Mental control and Discipline
"hearts of stone by southside 
CREATIVE 
·Martial Arts philosophies
HAIR DESIGN FOR THE SEXES 
·The sport of Judo RELAXING 

·Competition
Editor-in-Chief 
ATMOSPHERE
Managing Editor 
Executive Editor 
·Beginners welcome anytime
FREE HAIR
Executive Editor Editorial Editor 
ANALYSIS 
Self-Defense 6:30 Judo 7:30
Copy Editor 

RK RETAIL CENTER
St. Mary's Editor News Editor 
Both in ACC Wrestling Pit 
News Editor 
1637 LW W 
Mondays and Wednesdays
News Editor 

So. Bend Sports Editor 
232-6622 Photo Editor 
Call Curt Hench, 8721, for more information
Appt.. only
• 



Observer Editorial Board 
Tony Pace Steve Odland John Calcutt Barb Langhenry Rosemary Mills Phil Cackley Jean Powley Ann Gales Mike Lewis Diane Wilson Ray O'Brien 
Doug Christian 


He said a number of obstacles to the dollars and the title," he said Begin is to receive an award from separating the Egyptian and Israeli smiling.
the New York Council of Churches 
and go on to Canada for an official Meanwhile, Israeli officials here 
visit Nov. 6. Besides addressing are showing growing irritation and 
the United Jewish Appeal group in resentment over the U.S. position 
Lvs Angeles, the prime minister US pOSitiOn 'bizarre' in the talks, which they described 
also will meet Israel's negotiating as more pro-Arab than Egypt's 
team to the Washington peace stand.. 
talks. "We are really puzzled by 
At a party yesterday with Lik:ud positions had been overcome, but what's going on. The Egyptians 
Party members honoring the award cautioned that ''not all obstacles had seem willing to farther than the 
of the Nobel Peace Prize, Begin been removed" and "great care Americans are willing to let them,'' · 
said "a number of serious must be taken regarding what I'm said. one official, who refused to be 
obstacles have been overcome" in saying." identified. 
the Washington peace talks and it "I am very cautious and I wish to No government spokesman was 






'dukE
was possible that the treaty would .be explicit," Begin said. "There is prepared to speak officially to 
Graduate School 
be signed quickly. no guarantee, and I cannot promise reporters for fear of widening the He said Dec. 9, the day before a date. But there is a chance." rift, but privately one official called 
of Business Administration 
the award of the Nobel, has been The prime minister comments the U.S. stand "bizarre." 
A representative of the Graduate School of Business Administration will be on campus
Scientists pay tribute to Niewland 
Monday, November 13, to discuss the Duke MBA Program. Interested students may obtain 
by Rick Travers mers Prepared by the Grafting of Following Overberger, Herbert 
further information by contacting the Placement 
Nucleic Acid Bases onto Hydro­C Brown, a professor at Purdue 
Bureau.
A Nobel prize win_!!er will be philic-Chains." Un .rersity, will discuss ''Recent numbered among th~ scientists In December, Overberger will DeH lopments in Hydroboration." who will deliver major talks today receive the Parsons Award, the Philir Hab.dler, president of the and tomorrow at the Nieuwland highest award given by the Ameri­National Academy of Sciences, will Centenary Symposium, a tribute can Chemical Society _for public deliver the closing lecture, "The th~ Notre Dame priest-scientist >ervice. Pangs of Science," at 1:30 p.m.
who discover the basic formula for 
Jerry Wemtraub and Concerts Wesl presenl
the first practical synthetic rubber 47 years ago. tn 1Y25, Fr. Julius A. Nieuwland, a Notre Dame faculty member, 


JOBI' DIIVBB
attracted the attention of DuPont 
Company chemists and collabo­
====LIVE====
rated with them to make synthetic 
rubber from a new compound that 
the priest had isolated. 

IN CONCERT 
The discovery of neoprene was 
CBNTBB STAGE IN THE BOUND 
first announced at the American 
Chemical Society meeting Nov. 2, 
1931. recognizing Nieuwland as 
November 3, 1978 • SPM 
one of America's pioneer chemists. 'He died of a heart attack in 1936. 
Notre Dame ACC 
~orne .lUO chemists will attend · 
Ticket sale starts
the two-day symposium, "Innova­
tions in Chemistry," to be held in 
the Center for Continuing Educa­
tion. 
The meeting began at 9:20 this 
morning with a reassessment of 
Nieuwland's work by the director of 
research and development of elas­
tomers at E.I.duPont deNemours 
and Company, Dr. Herman E: 
Schroeder, and Notre Dame bio­
logy chairman, Theodore J. Cro-• 
vello. 
The morning session ended with 
a discussion of "Chemistry and 
Macromolecules in Perspective" 
by Nobel-Laureate Professor Paul 
J. Flory of Stanford University. 
Beginning at 1:30 p.m., Dr. DavidS. Breslow, a senior research associate at the Hercules Research Center, Wilmington, DE, will speak on "Biologically Active Syn­thetic Polymers," followed by Synthetic rubber was discoverd by Rev. julius A. Nieuwland,Professor Georges J. Smets of the 
C.S.C. in 1931. [Notre Dame photo] University of Leuven, Belgiun•, on 

"Reactions in Solid Polymers." 
Smets is president of the Itema­
tional Union of Pure and Applied 
Chemistry. 
The president of the American 
Chemical Society, Professor Anna 
J. Harrison of Mount Holyoke College, will address the topic, "Value Judgements in a Technolo­gical Society," when she speaks at a banquet tonight. 
Professor Charles G. Overber­ger, vice president for research at the University of Michigan and former ACS president, will open tomorrow's session at 9 a.m. with a lecture on "The Synthesis and Conformation of Asymmetric Poly-
Collegiate Jazz Festival 
Now, all Cincinnati area Notre Dame 



comatr• 
and St. Mary's students can fly home for $24.00 on a stand-by basis. This is 
to hold party 
Any students still interested in working on the Collegiate Jazz 
direct service, without changing planes 
( 800) 354_ 
Festival are invited to attend an 
at Chicago's O'Hare. Call Toll-Free 
9822

organizational party tomorrow at 7 
p.m. at 1106 Bums. 


Begin leaves for US to sign treaty 
mentioned as a date.· ''H the treaty were bolstered by reports from
JERUSALEM [APJ • Prime Mini­
will be ready by then, I think this Washington, where the first three­
ster Menachem Begin leaves today 
will be the best day," he said. way, top-level negotiations were
on a trip to the United States and 
"From my conversations today held in ten days.
Canada amid hopes for an early 
with Washington, I can say there is "President Carter, President
signing of the Egyptian-Israeli 
a possibility that a peace treaty Sadat and I may sign a peace treaty 
peace treaty. But some Israeli 
between Israel and ·Egypt will be on the day before we (Sadat and
officials grumbled that Washington 
signed soon," the prime minister Begin) receive the prize in Oslo,"
was obstructing progress on the 
said. Begin said. "That would entitle us
pact. 
• 
the observer 
3 

If it was murder,where's the bodv? IF it was ror • 
woman,which woman? IF its on1y. same, why the blood? . 
~ 

.. 


I' 
~ 


ck 
professor at the Student Govern­ment office on the second floor of LaFortune. 
Leutchen said that AI LeMay, chairman of the Student Affairs Committee of the Facnlty Senate, was very enthusiastic about the program. "The faculty sees the lack of informal contact with stu­dents as a problem too," she said, adding this program may be one way to improve communication. 


collegiate crossword 

ACROSS 
1 Stock exchange 
membership 5 Famous stadium 9 -facto 
13 Reluctant 14-or woe 15 Old TV show 
(2 wds.) :6 Go fishing 17 Uproot 19 Indian coastal 
region 2.' Big-(German 
cannon) 22 Food additive 25 Put -to 
(stop) 2~ 1/ood sorrels 29 O~ean phenomena 
\2 wds.) 33 Shaping machine 35 Coop up 36 Go1 d rush name 37 Guy Williams TV 
role 38 Preterit (2 wds.) 41 Got up 42 Play part (2 wds.) 

52 Confession, con-20-'s army trition, etc. 23 Chemical suffix 53 Cousteau's milieu 24 Football highlights (2 wds.) 27 Abbreviation on an 56 Steel mill products envelope 
(2 wds.) 28 "-a Latin from 57 Influential group Manhattan" 58 Bronte's "Jane -"29 Pince-­59 Ciphers 30 "...were Paradise 60 British river " 61 King -31 Prefix: height 62 Abbreviation on a 32 "Monopoly" square 
cornerstone (2 wds.) 4 Prior to DOWN 36 "...against a 
crooked -" 1 Detection apparatus 38 Certain ocean 2 Golfing feat (abbr.) 3 Body builder 39 German exclamation 
Charles -40 Ace of the pitching 4 Sonny and Cher hit · staff 
(4 wds.) 44 Alpine sound 5 Took evasive action 45 Paul and Dell 6 Hoodoo 46 ~rrdustry -is a 7 What trenchermen necessity" 
can do 47 Fish dish B D.A. 's obstacle 48 Hardy heroine 9 Curse 49 King of the road 
10 -fall 50 Rights organization 11 Clockmaker Thomas 51 Tolstoy and 
43 Dr. Robert Hartley, 12 Music halls Durocher for one 13 Sun -54 Potato part 49 Call to the hounds 18.Change radically 55 Pitching statistic 

.,., ..

r'' -.~ . 

Oon't took now, ALICE MURPHY ... 
But you have "PL !! nappy BntthOay H! quess Who!? 
• 
Desperately need one or two Notre Dame I I 

season basketball tix. Call4-1-4487. Scoop...If you only knew!!! I 

• 
Desperately need Tennessee tickets. 



1..--------•

• Please call4411 or 5651. -----------------------------~---...----------------, 
• Wanted: 2 or 4 GA tickets for any home •• )701f!2r. ~ ~ llt70 /11\Hl..71) ~ Jllll 
football game. Call Mike 7838. 'JI,\1.';'J.I-'..l'\~ ltl tp 'JI,\WW'JI,\.l'\Jf.Vl. I Needed: 2 GA tix for Tennessee game. I IPieasecaiiTimorJoeat8460. Thanks. 
:...&"--..+~-1979-1980 
Desperately need 2 GA tickets to Tennes-1 
UIUI.lUIQ.lUI.U

• 
see. Call Eric 1384. 

1 

IMam and Dad sesperately need Tennes­
1 

lsee GA tlx -call John 8656. 
<!!arrnll 1fall-tlabtltua 
Need two GA or Student Tennessee tlx. 
I 

• 
Rich 272-1467. 
1 

hint iltarg's C!tnlltge 
I Please Help. I need 2 GA tickets for 
1 

.Tennessee. Call Lance 1027. Wanted: Help my little brother see 
I 


Nnutmbu 2, 1!178 &:3Dp.m.
• Vagus Fergason. I need 2-4 GA Tenn 
1 

I tickets. Call Jane 6868 any1ime. 
1 

JrtmarUv a snpltnmnrt program
Need ride to Nashville on Nov. 3. Call I I Christy 4-1-4760. 
1

..________ Juninrli mWit Itaut pmnblsinn .nf bqmtmmt cltairmtn anb lltaU.li 
i 

Wednesday, November 1, 1978
a the observer 

Piane's distance runners prepare for national finals 
by Ray O'Brien 
Sports Editor 
In its quest for a bid to the NCAA Championships, the Notre Dame cross-country squad showed impressive results in two prepara­tory meets over the midsemester break. 
On October 20, Coach Joe Piane 
and crew traveled to Purdue 
University to participate in the 
Indiana State Championships and 
finisbed a promising second behind 
perennial power Indiana. 

"We ran well as a teant," emphasized Piane. "They were agressive and ran as a group which is exactly what we are going to .have to do if we are going to 
succeed." 
The Fighting Irish's Pat Sullivan led the team with a second-place finish in the meet. Dennis Vander­kraats, Chuck Aragon and Chris Lattig weren't far behind in fifth, sixth and seventh place, respec­tively. Freshman Tony Hatherly capped the scoring, finishing 14th in the race as Notre Dame's fifth man. 
The 28-34 margin was the closest 
the Irish have come to Indiana m 
the state meet since Piane took over the coaching reins in 1975. 
"Steve Welsh did not run because of an injury but will bo back from an injury by the time 1}1e NCAA Districts roll around," commented Piane. "That is \Yhy I think we have a good chahce at beating Indiana later in tbe year.'' 
. If Piane was optimistic after the State meet, he had reason to be smiling when his team placed third in the Central· Collegiate Confe­rence Championships at Glen Ellyn, Dlinois, the next week. 
National powers Penn State and Michigan were the only teams to score better than Notre Dame, as the Irish bested all the Mid­America Conference schools and topped all but one major indepen­dent from the Midwest. 
Sophomore Sullivan was called on again to lead his team as he crossed the tape in sixth place. Freshman standout Lattig notched a twelth-place finish, the highest placing freshman in the meet. Aragon was the third fastest ND runner, placing 28th. Hatherly came in 37th and senior co-captain Steve Welsh placed 40th in his first race since he was injured in a meet' on September 9. 
sportsbriefs McGuire signs with NBC 

NEW iYORK [APf • AI McGuire, longtime successful basketbalr 
coach.at Marquette University, has signed a multi-year contract 
with ,NBC, Chet Simmons, president of NBC Sports~ announced.'. 
~~ .~ 
McGuire, a candid, entertaining and thoroughly kno'Wledgeabl'?l commentator for the network last season, again wiU provide { analysis for NBC's colle_ge basketball broadcasts, as well as th~ J basketball competition m the 1980 OJynwics at Moscow. Jn r addition, he wilf do halftime features and habdle additional generld l sports assignments. 1} \ 
Southpaw goes re-entryi.tL 
LOS ANGELES [AP) • Tommy John, whose rebuilt left arm' meani : 47 victories to the Los Angeles Dodgers during the past thr~ 1 seasons, will be-pitching for someone else in 1979. . 1 1 
The 3S·year-old left-hamler from Terre Haute, Ind., who sat !)Ut ...I 1Yl seasons after he ruptured a ligament in his left elbow on Jutx 17, 1974, ended negotiations with the Dodgers' on Monday, hi$ agent said. Next move for John1 is to consider the offers following Friday's re-entry draft. . 
"We turned down their offer," said John's agent, attorney Bob Cohen. "We made them a counter-offer which they rejected. ' Tommy will definitely not be a member of the Dodgers next year.'ti 
Boilers can't look ahead.~( 
INDIANAPOUS (AP] ·It is realistic "to think ahead a ti'ttle bit,''\ Purdue coach J~m Young conceded Tuesday, ~ut a Nov. 18\ showdown at M1ehigan that could decide the Btg Ten football I . championship is meaningless unless the Boilermakers win their two ~ games b'efore that. · 
"In order for that to mean anything, we've got to win our games now. In talking with our players, we've told them ... they know about Michigan and Indiana com10g up at the end of. the season." . 
The Wolverines, ranked eighth in the nation, are tied for second 1 place in the cbnference with Ohio State llnd Michigan State at 3•1, a game behind the league-leading Boilermakers . Indiana, two games behind at 2-2, has beaten Purdue two years in a row. 
"It was a good performance," Piane evaluated afterwards. "It was nice to have Welsh back. He should continue to improve greatly before the NCAA meets. It was a decent finish considering the fact that Vanderkraats and Strohman did not run because they were taking the GMAT's and we only finished seventh last year." 
The Irish must now prepare for the NCAA District IV Champion­ships to be held at Minneapolis, Minnesota, on November 11. The top four finishers from this race will go on to the NCAA finals to be held at Madison, Wisconsin, on Novem­ber 20. 
The top competitors from the Midwest that the Irish will have to overcome are Wisconsin, Cleve­land State and both East and Western Michigan. 
''After finishing tenth in the NCAA qualifier last year, we set a goal of making it this year. I am optimistic because we have run with Indiana and shown we can beat them," said Piane. "We have · improved consistently, and surpris­ingly we have the healthiest team I have coached since I've been here." 


Notre Dame's cross-country team ran impressively in meets at Purdue and Glen Ellyn, Ill., over midsemester break. [Photo by louise Karas] 
Irish rebound from 0-2 disaster 
CHICAGO [API -It wasn't a situation that Notre Dame Coach Dan Devine hadn't faced before,but again, it wasn't easy to have a national champion lose its first two games and fight back to respecta­bility. 
"It has happened before in my coaching career,'' Devine told the Chicago Football Writers Tuesday in a telephone interview. "I've been faced with disaster before. 
"I take it as a challenge and I've been fortunate that 99 percent of the time I've had players who received the challenge." 
Notre Dame opened the season as defending national champion but lost its first two games to Missouri and Michigan and dropped from the rankings. 
The Irish since have won five straight, disposing of such ranked teams as Purdue, Michigan State and Pittsburgh and have moved up to No. 15, This week the Irish face 11th-ranked and undefeated Navy at Cleveland. 
"Subconsciously, I guess, I've enjoyed our fighting our way back 'from what could have been a disastrous season," said Devine. "You can go down or you can pull the ship together. 
"I can't say enough about the players and the coaches for what they have done," said Devine. 
·*Observer 



Sports 


Rich Hunter and Company got in the Halloween spirit yesterday by disguising themselves as Notre Dame's soccer team. [Photo by Ken McAlpine] 
"We could have made a lot of something I prefer not to talk excuses but we didn't." about. You have to work hard. You 
Devine refused to divulge the have to talk to the players. But the methods he uses to bring a team time has to be right and what is back from the brink of disaster. said is important." 
"I'm not on an ego trip," he Devine said he thought Navy said. "I have my technique but it's should be ranked higher than it is and drew a parallel between the 

Midshipmen and Pittsburgh, the 1976 national champion. 
"In 1975 I saw the same indica­tions with the Navy team that I saw with Pitt in 1974," said Devine. "Only a few people, themselves, and people who coached against them could see it. 
"If Navy had been undefeated last year," said Devine, "They'd be ranked No. 1 or 2 this season. Any team that can hold Pitt to minus 28 yards rushing is not a good team, it's a great team. 
"They have a passer named Bob Leszczynski. We faced him in 1976 and we were lucky to get out of Cleveland alive," said Devine. 
"The Navy-Notre Dame game is a natural," said Devine, who then committed a Freudian slip. "I think the winner of this game should be ranked among the top five. Not first or second because a team which has two losses can't be first or second right now." 
Maybe, Devine forgot that Navy would still be undefeated with a victory over Notre Dame. 

NFL investigates Pack 
GREEN BAY, Wis. [AP] -Duane Thomas, described as sullen, unco­operative and unmanagal;>le when he was a star running back with the Dallas Cowboys, is in a storm center again -this time apparently as an unwitting partner in a controversy involving the Green Bay Packers. 
Thomas recently completed a tryout with the Packers, and the way the National Football League club conducted it is under investi­gation by NFL headquarters. 
Disclosure of the investigation Monday has Packer Coach and General Manager Bart Starr livid. His team had to forfeit a fourth­round draft choice last May and, if NFL Commissioner Pete Rozelle decides they have violated another rule, could lose another pick. 
Starr vented his anger Monday afternoon on the four reporters who pursued the story involving Thomas and learned of the investi­gation. 
The former ,Packer Cjuarterback said rule breaking is not uncommon as clubs seek a competitive edge. He also said that while the Packers may have erred, they are not cheaters.
"There are bloodthirsty bastards 
t th t · t g t an d 

.._~---------------------------------....._......_..__..................__...---.~...ou ere. rymg .o e . e ge,. 
working out guys in pads and with their teams," Starr said. "They're cheating. We don't cheat. But we're going to go to the limit within the rules and we're going to bend them within the framework." Thomas was cut by the Cowboys 
before the 1976 season. 
The running back, now 31. recently wrote the Packers and asked for a tryout. They complied, and he worked out here from a week ago Monday to Monday of this week. The NFL's so-called "stashing rule" governing such tryouts is at issue in Rozelle's investigation. 
B·ball tickets 
Notre Dame student basketball ticket distribution continues today atthe box office on the second floor of the Athletic and Convocation Center. 
Today juniors, graduate and law students may pick up their tickets until 4:30 p.m. Thursday will be distribution for sophomores, with freshmen getting their tickets on Friday. 
All students must present their ID cards to receive their tickets. Eaeb student may present a maxi­
mum of nyo IDs. · . 
\ 







