
--,------------~----------~------------------­
'· 

server 
an independent s~udent newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary'sVol. XIII, No. 60 Tuesday, December 5, 1978 
Anti-shah movement launches slowdowns 
TEHRAN, Iran [AP]-Thousands of oil workers, again spearheading the anti-shah movement, launched a new round of work slowdowns yesterday hoping to topple Shah Mohannad Reza Pahlavi by drying up Iran's all-important oil reven­ues, reliable sources reported. ' 
In Tehran, three days ot massive and bloody anti-government pro­tests appeared to be winding down · yesterday. But in a new twist to what has been a one-sided struggle by unarmed dissidents against the military's guns, an urban guerrilla band attacked a police station, killing one officer and wounding another. 
Youthful protesters also set fire to a bank in the heart of the cit}!, causing considerable damage. But otherwise the armored military patrols stationed at key points: in the city seemed generally ip control. 
The government reported its troops killed 17 persons and wounded SO in Tehran and the southern city of Isfahan since the latest violence exploded Friday night. But Diplomatic sources put the death toll at more than 30 here and in provincial cities, and some of the shah's opponents claim as many as 3,000 persons have been killed, a figure most obseN,ets believe to wildly exaggerated. : 
"We're fighting to the death oow. 
We have shed too much bloo4 tp stop," cne militant who identified himself only as Hassan told a reporter at the burial of a half­dozen slain protesters in a Tehran cemetery. · 
"The shah is the enemy of !the 
people and of Islam," he said.'_ 
"We will kill all who support hi~.". 
The opposition is both religious · and political -orthodox MoslePts who want to reverse the shah's Westernization of this traditional Islamic society, and political ~s­sidents who want to end his authoritarian rule. 
Sources satd the new slow-down by many of the 37,000-man work force in Iran's southwestetn Khuzestan oil fields immediately cut Iran's daily oil production by 2 million barrels, one-third of the normal level. 

"We expect the slowdowns to get worse tomorrow. and production to drop even further," one well­placed source said. 
Sources in the oil fields said the refinery at Abadan on the Persian Gulf was not affected by the slowdown yesterday but probably would be today, along with at least two of four offshore fields in the gulf. 
Iran, the world's No.2 petroleum exporter, depends heavily on its oil revenues. A 15-day strike by oil-industry workers last month cut 
the flow of oil to a trickle and cost the national treasury more than 1 billion in lost revenue. 
The state-run National Iranian Oil Co. was just beginning to restore normal production when hit 
. by yesterday's job actions, obviously aimed at dealing a decis­ive blow to the economic under­pinning of the beleagured mon­archy. 
D'Antonio announces 

OCH will assist students moving 0-C 
Editor's Note: This article is the were told that they would have to concluding segment in the series move off campus, \heir selection of on off-campus living. This final off-campus }Jousing was very limi­article will trace the steps that a ted. student desiring to move off cam­The fact that just five years later pus might take. students are reliving the same 
problem perhaps justifies the cur­by Pat Mangan rent student; protest, but at least the University has informed the 
While many students are still students this ·early that the lottery perplexed by the thought of living is a "virtual" certainty. off campus, there are also many In order to provide some realistic other students seriously consider­assistance to students, the Office of 
·ing to move off campus. Off-Campus Housing, in conjunc­
The last time students were tion with the Legal Aid Service, has lotteried off campus was in 1974; traced th~ steps that a strident and in that case, students weren't might follow in moving off campus. notified until March. The transi-Dan D'Antonio, director of Off­
. tion for many of these students was Campus Housiqg (OCH), sugges­sudden, troublesome, and unex­ted that students who are seriously 
·pected. Consequently, there was planning to move off campus not only a housing shortage on should first decide how many campus, but by the time students people they want to live with so 
that they can better know what to look for. . 
Kevin Rochford of Legal Aid, encouraged students, who are thinking about moving off campus, to take advantage of the amount of time that they have to look for housing. He added that students should begin investigating as soon as possible. · 
Rochford · and D'Antonio both agreed that the place to start is at the OCH, where much valuable information is condensed and read­ily available. 
Presently, a student entering the OCH office would receive an infor­mation packet containing an "Off­Campus Housing Guide," a listing of all available University-inspec­ted houses and apartments in the South Bend area, a list of all available apartment complexes and boarding rooms, a coded map of South Bend, a sample and "func­tional" rental agreement form, a first-time renter~s questionnaire and a copy of the University meal plan. 

D'Antonio strongly encouraged students to read the "Off-Campus Housing Guide" before actually looking for a place, so that they would have a b!lsic understanding of what to look for in a prospective dwelling and its lease. 
After familiarizing themselves with the basic consideration of selecting housing and the !legal obligations of landlords and ten-· ants, D'Antonio said that students should decide what they are look­ing for and then consult the OCH lists. 
While there are other sources ·continued on page 4] 

SMC board questions fee~s 
by Jean Powley Saint Mary's Editor 
The recent institution of a man­datory $10 charge on rooms with refrigerators underwent serious questioning by Saint Mary's Board of Governance members last night at their regular meeting. The College's controller, Jason Lin­dower, was present to give the administration's side of the issue. 
''The refrigerator fee came about last year when we were checking the rooms during one of the breaks. 
Almost every room we went to had a refrig~rator. Before that we were not aware that there were so many refrigerators on campus," Lind ow­er explained. 
He then had an electrician calculate the cost of running a · refrigerator for a nine-month per­iod and it turned out to be quite high. 
When the senior officers of the college were working on the budget last spring. they needed additional revenue so they decided to levy an additional fee on those students with refrigerators, according to Lindower. 
''Our whole philosophy is to have each area carry its own weight. Tuition should pay teachers' sala­ries, classroom maintenance, etc. Room fees cover the hall staffs' salaries and board pays for SAGA and maintenance of the dining hall," Lindower said. "It cos-ts a lot to run a refrigerator and those students that have them should be responsible for their cost." 

"There's no free lunch. What­ever happens on this campus has to be paid for," he continued. 
"But why weren't the students informed about this charge when they were informed about increases in tuition?" Pia Trigiani. public relations commissioner. asked. 
"Yes, if students had been informed, that may have swayed their decisions on whether or not to get refrigerators this year," Vice President of Student Affairs Julie Pope said. 
"We have never made it a policy to announce changes in optional fees," Lindower replied, admit­ting, however, that it might be possible to mention the refrigerator fee in the letter which accompanies 
.each semester's invoice. 

RAs are now responsible for identifying students with refrigera­tors. 
~.---~--.---~~~--~~--~--------~--~ -----~~------------------------~-----------,-­
the observer______ Tuesday, December 5, 1978
2 
_ 

,...News Briefs ____.._....,. 
1=:::::=============================:::::::::==:::::Worid 
Cultist faces murder charges 
GEORGETOWN, Guyana [API-Charles E. Beikman, a 20-year veteran of the Peoples Temple, faces a preliminary hearing today on charges of murdering four other cultists on the night more than 900 died in an orgy of suicide and murder at the sect's Jonestown colony. Beikman. 43, of Indianapolis, ]IN,, is charged with slashing the throats of Sharon Amos, the cult's public relations officer, and her three children in the sect's Georgetown headquarters Nov. 18. 
t:======================: National 
Pioneer I begins Venus probe 
MOUNTAIN VIEW, Calif. [API-Pioneer I slipped into an oval orbit around Venus yesterday to begin a 225-day probe of the cloud-shrouded planet that scientists hope will yield clues to the origins of Earth's climate and environment. The flagship of the unmanned space fleet that will conduct the study swept behind the planet at 7:56a.m. PST. right on schedule, according to officials at the National Aeronautics and Space Administration's Ames Research Center here. The craft, shaped like a coffee can, emerged 20 minutes later from the back side of the planet. The climax of the 
• mission will come early Saturday. when another spacecraft carrying four mini-probes will separate. pierce the planet's atmosphere and crash to its surface. transmitting valuable scientific data before it is­destroyed. • 
Utah executions delayed 
SALT LAKE CITY [API-The Utah Supreme Court stayed the double execution of convicted killers Dale Pierre and William Andrews on Monday. less than three days before they would have been shot. Their attorneys said issues involving race and capital punishment had not been heard. They will be able to make their arguments in an appeal before the state Supreme Court. No date has been set for that hearing. "Oh boy. we got a stay," said defense attorney John Caine as the ruling was read. Pierre and Andrews. both black, were convicted in the torture slayings of three persons during a holdup in Ogden four years ago. 
Armycracks down on sex 
. 
WASHINGTON [API-The Army has ordered a crackdown on sexual fraternization between male and female soldiers of different rank because of "an increasing number of incidents of inappropriate relationships." The move follows a study that reported a "creeping advance of sex fraternization throughout the Army" and said man-woman relationships -particularly dating between officers or noncommissioned officers and enlisted women -are causing serious· discipline and morale problems as the role of women in the Army grows. 

Group raises abortion issue 
NEW YORK [API-Proponents of women's abortion rights said yesterday that "an intense religious mobilization led by the Roman Catholic Church" has produced laws restricting government funding of abortions for the poor. Rhonda Copelon, an attorney for the Center for Constitutional Rights, told a federal court that the laws, particularly the Hyde amendment limiting federal funding of abortions. violate the constitutional separation of church and state. The plaintiffs in the case, women who were pregnant at the time the suit was filed, their physicians and abortion rights advocates, contend that Congress would not have restricted federal funding for abortion if the Roman Catholic Church had not made the issue its principal political concern. They presented documents to the court to show that the self-styled "right to life" movement is heavily influenced by the Roman Catholic hierarchy and church funds. Richard Caro, the assistant U.S. attorney representing the federal government, argues that opposition to abortion under a variety of circumstances may coincide with a religious belief but "can be reached philosophically or politically." 

Weather 
PartlY sunny and windy Tuesday with highs in the mid-30s. Partly cloudv and cold Tuesday night with lows IS to 22. Partly sunny Wednesday with highs in the low to mid-30s. 



,_On Campus Today_-----.. 
12:15 pm  mass, with rev.  robert griffin, Iafortune  
5-6:10 pm  s.le, christmass roses, dinina h.llls, $2 ea.  
6:10pm  meeting, alpha phi omega, zahm b.sement  
6:10pm  meeting, food advisory board, s. dining hall comm., s. dining hall, faculty dining rm.  
7 pm  ~  meeting, for all students interested japan program, howard lounge  in  the  nd  
7 pm  lecture, congressman phil crane, mem. lib. aud.  
7:30 pm  commercial banking night, hayes-healy aud.  
11-12 pm  wsnd, "blasts 1'rom the past," with host joe joyce, am 640.  

. ....... 

DOONESBURY by Garry Trudeau 

8055, I IA/ONOCI?. /A/HAT's THe IF YOtJ Cf}(JlO MA'TTCR, RED­
a.ARJFY THAT FERN, YOU { A5516NMENT l1X' f}ON'T REAO " JUST GAVE Me.. eLECTION 
• \ 
*The Observer 
Night Editor: Sue Wuetcher Asst. Night Editor: Dave Brosh Copy Readers: Debbie Dahr­ling, John McGrath layout Staff: John Smith, Tom Monroe Features Layout: The Adonis Sports layout: Mark Perry Typists: Mardi Nevin, Tom Pipp, Rosie Rodgers and Pete McFadden Early Morning Typist: ????H Day Editor: John Ferroli Ad layout: David E. Wood Photographer: Rot 
The Observer Is published Mon· dey tltNuttl Frielay except during eum MCI YIICllltion periMs. Tl)e Observer Is JMIIIIIIhed lty tM students of Notre Deme end Saint Merv'• Colle9e. lubacrilttions 
!MY be ,.,I'CMHCI fer no per yeer 
(J Jt tMr Nmnter) from The Observer, ~.o. Box Q, Nom oe.e, IIICIIena 46556. SMond CIHI ,..,... paid, Notre Dame, lndten•, 4US6. 
The Observer II • member of 1111 AIIIOCiated Prwll. All repro· 
ductlon rlthta aro reserved. 
flit::~[)§,..{ llit::e~trt:: ~rt::St::lll§ 
lclwe~rcl4.1l>f?f?~§ 


Seating is very linited. The audienre wi.ll be 
seated randomy within the environrmntal 

setting of the play. Please note the Wednesday perionnanre 
Svrn l11 {)~lc1u~lllh1 AucJiturlun1 Weci.-Sc~t. Uet_. {J-CJ 
~:lf off campus
"")] presents 
·~ 
~~ 
thursday. 7 dec ember 9-1 

~t~FatWally's-OpenBar ~ )f$5 single $9-50 couple ~~ 
Tues.-thurs. -.12-2:30-.........~...~..~~ 
Tickets: LeMans Lobbv Wed. -12-3-LaFortune Or at the door 
Call Cathy 288-9762/Sharon 234-1996 
:•************************* ******•
* *
* ( * 
: ftA.-tO.~ ! * o.S~ * 
: t\\t\S\(ft E 
* *
! Come doyout Chtlstmos Shopping ! * * 
!* Lemans Lobby -smc !* 
!* Tues., Dec.5thtu Fti, Fri., Dec.810-5 pm !* 
* , * 
: Sponsored by smc Social Commission ! 
*********************************l 



Wednesday: Gallery Lainzberg: AnimatedArt Sale Thursday: Art Sale continues in LaFortune Friday: Movie: Goodbye Girl Saturday: 7,9,11 in Engineering Auditorium, 
Monday:.Lecture: Karlis Kaufmanis 7pm in LibraryAud. 
~niuersiitZ of 2:\otrc .~ame 
G!ollege orf '11..-ine.. _lUmlnietratian 


ACCOUNTING COURSE AVAILABLE NEXT SEMESTER 
ADDTIONAL SECTION OF ACCT 261B~SIC CLASS WILL MEET AT 8 MWF  ACCOUNTING  
IF INTERESTED SIGN UP IN BEFORE ~ECEMBER 8  254 HAYES -HEALY  

', .... 



Tuesday, December S, 1978 
the observer 




McKenna outlines achievements 
SUBSC~IB€RS: 

by input, over-crowding and par­hard to meet all their needs. We 
to €xt€Jl0 YOUR 1SUBSCRIPtiOn to 

Kevin Rlchanlson ietals, McKenna mentioned the originally had a large cabinet to get Senior Staff Reporter publ\cation of the Course Evaluat­more people involved but some­ion Booklet as a positive accomp­times it is hard to communicate 


::tThe Observer

lishment. "It was 32 pages longer effectively with a lot of people," 
an independent student newspaper

Student Body President Andy than last year's and it provides a McKenna said. "I would spend 
serving notre dame & st. marys

McKenna outlined last night his base for future improvements," more time reflecting on having a administration's accomplishments McKenna said. large cabinet before doing it 
thRouqh the SPRinq '79 semesteR 

during the semester. McKenna "I have also been very pleased again," he said. said that while progress was made with the work John Fitzpatrick has Concerning next' semester's on several matters, there were three been doing on behalf of off-campus priorities, McKenna said that the major areas of improvement stud­students this semester," McKenna Thrid World Conference will be a ents could visibly notice. said. "Off-campus students have major priority. "We want to bring 
"I think that we helped lay the shown greater interest in being Third World issues closer to the groundwork for student input into involved and we are working on students,'' McKenna stated. the University decision-making getting additionai things done for McKenna also predicted that the process," McKenna said . ...1 think them,'' he stated. over-crowding problem will occupy these gains are the result of actions The Third World Film Festival a great deal of his time as well as we took such as the Student Rights was aonther activity McKenna an alcohol awareness program Forum. Students proved that they 'termed as a success. "The films Student Government is planning to are interested in controlling more were great and we are grateful to hold. "Both are concerns here and aspects of their lives," he stated. Fr. Don McNeill (Director of The I will be working to help solve these 
McKenna noted "the elevation Center for Experiental Learning) problems,'' McKenna said. of the over-crowding problem to for his help in making the festival top Administration officials and the so successful," McKenna said. Board of Trustees" as one of his "I am very satisfied with the way McNeill pleased accomplishments. He stressed the in which Student Government has importance of helping provide a cooperated and worked with other with results of long-term perspective on the over­student organizations to help meet crowding situation to the Admini­the needs of the students," stration and the Board of Trustees. McKenna said. "Student Govern­Film Festival 
"I also think we were effective in ment will definitely continue to raising the parietals issue," work with other student organizat­by Margaret R. Burke McKenna stated. "We gave it a ions next semester and we will try real effort and felt that we were to improve our collective effective­
''Notre Dame Student Govern­
being as responsive as we could be ness," he said. 
ment and the Center for Experient­
to students needs," he said. McKenna noted some difficulty in 
ial Learning are extremely pleased 
Besides the issues of student dealing with a large cabinet. "It is · 
with the results of the Third World Film Festival," Fr. Don McNeill, 
~~\;e oatn 

director of the Center for Exper­
iential Learning Center, stated. According t9 M~Neil, an approx­I imate total of 4,155 faculty, 
CIA job interviews continue 
despite mystery pamphlets 
adr.lnistrators and students I attended the various films. An by Pat Toomey lations in hiring practices. Because estimated 2,080 people attended J-com plete kitchen the CIA meets these requirements, the films of Africa in September. Last week, mysterious anti-CIA Willemin sees no reason to prohibit , The films of Latin America, shown ~ff -street parking pamphlets appeared in the Notre their on-campus interviews. in October, drew a crowd of 
I .

Dame dining halls. Despite the approximately 1,190 and 885
ND-CIA guidelines
pamphlets, the CIA conducted people were in attendance for the t-UP to 4 students 
Notre Dame's academic com­
their scheduled job interviews on films of Asia show1,1 in November. I
munity is currently establishing
campus without incident. However, McNeill qualified the l-s280-300/month
guidelines for faculty-CIA rela­
approximate total of 4,155, saying, 
The pamphlets, entitled "The lations. I
"There is no way to extimate how
CIA Comes to Notre Dame," I
A subcommittee of the Academic many different people saw at leastcondemned the CIA for its covert Council is presently evaluating one of the films since so many I call234-6647 actions both in the United States guidelines patterned after ones students were able to attend moreand abroad. According to the already established at Harvard. [continued on page 6]pamphlets, the CIA interfered in The guidelines would require anyforeign governments and violated faculty member associated with the its charter by conducting domestic CIA to disclose this association topolitical surveillance. 
the University. It is not known who distributed 
According · to Richard Conklin,the pamphlets on the Notre Dame director of Information Services,campus. Although The Center for · the key to the guidelines is· disclo­National Security Studies authored sure.
the pamphlets, they have no know­ledge of who may have distributed 
The subcommittee is headed bythem. 
David T. Link, dean of the Law School. They may present their
Richard Willemin, director of the 
report at the next Academic Coun­Placement Bureau, said that the cil meeting on Dec. 12, althoughUniversity had no objection to the the agenda has not yet been set.
CIA's interviewing students. 
''Although it sometimes loses sight of its mission, the CIA is a reputable employer," Willemin commented. He stated that despite the fact that some people misdirec­

The Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore 
ted them in the past, the CIA is needed for national security. 
According to Willetnin, , any organization that wishes to inter­For your Christmas gifts view on campus must be an 
-~ 
organization in good · standing, have a good credit rating;-and abide by federal and state regula-Calendars 
Picasso need posters in a The Lord of the Rings 
hurry? 
• 
The Movie Fans 
. 
Great days in Sports 


., 
Star Wars 


~::caul 
Grease 

insty-prints 
the wb of t.he printingbia_! 
1 00 -11 x17 posters only $10.00 203 n. main l'lo~town So Bend 289-6977 ., 
',,l,!,, 
I!· 



the Obseryer Tuesday, December 5, 1978 

N.D./Toronto 
student Exchange 
WHAT ISm 
An educational, cultural, and social exchange open to all students at Notre Dlilme. 
WHEN IS IT? 
Feb. 2nd-5th N.D. students at Toronto 
March 2nd-5th Toronto students at N.D. 
HOW TO GET INVOLVED? 
Sign-up will be on a first mme, first serve basis. Openings available for 117 students maximum. 
HOW MUCH DOES IT COST? 
A $50.00 non-refundable fee is due by Dec. Bth at the Student Government Offices. Make checks payable to Student Government Fund. 
Further information can be obtained by calling Chuck DelGrande at 1938. 
' 



Committee meets to select 
honorary degree recipient 
by Cathy Santoro 
The committee to select a reci­
pient of an honorary degree con­
ferred by the University will meet 
tomorrow to draft a list of candi­
dates. 
The honorary degree is pre­sentedto someone whu has made a significant contribution in his field. Dr. William Burke, assistant to the Provost, said, "It ctoesn't make much sense to honor someone who already has 50 degrees, however honorable his nomination would be to the University. We would rather select someone who is on his or her way to prominence---young people on their way forward. •• 
Donna Ziemba, co-chairman of the committee, explained that the candidate can be from any field. Since each College of the Univer­sity nominates a recipient, the committee will try to avoid conflict­ing choices when S'electing a candi­date.­
Senior Class President Jerry Castellini appointed Ziemba and Rita Martin as co-chairmen of the committee, which he calls "the grad-task committee." Members of the Senior Advisory Council were asked by Castellini to find one student from each dormitory to serve on the committee. These students selected two faculty mem­bers, Assistant Dean Waddick of the College of Arts and Letters and Richard Hunter of the Manage­ment Department, to help nomi­nate candidates for the degree. Two other faculty members are in the process of being chosen. 
Tomorrow the committee will discuss what type of person to select and try to decide upon a list of possible candidates. Ziemba said, "We'd like to let the seniors know that they can offer nomina­tion suggestions to any committee member, since there will not be any formal ballot, as with the Senior Class Fellow." 
After the list of possible candi­dates has been narrowed down to three or four names, it will be given to University President Fr. Theodore Hesburgh. He will then contact the candidates in the order 


This semester break take advantage of Continental's price break on air­fares. We'II take you to the snow in Colorado, the sun on either coast, or the warmth of your family circle. And you'll save enough to live it up once you get there. Fly anyplace Continental flies on the mainland and save up to 50% off regular Coach, depef!ding on when and where you go. Of course, there are some restrictions and you must purchase your tickets in advance. 
Even if you get a sudden itch to travel, Continental can save you some scratch without an advance purchase. We have the only system-wide* discount fare without restrictions. It'll save you up to 20% any night, 10% any day that we have seats available. 
Call your Campus Representative, Travel Agent or Continental Airlines. We'd love to give you a break. 
•mainland only 
We really move our tail for you. 
CONTINENTAL AIRLINES 


The Proud Bird with the Golden Tail. 
they appear on the list to find out whether they will be available to accept the degree, which wit be presented at the graduation ceremony in May. 
Although the list is presented to Heslturgh before Christmas, he wit will not reveal the name of the degree recipient until April---after the nomination has been approved by the University Trustees. 
The recipient of the honorary degree and speaker at the com­mencement two years ago was President Jimmy Carter. 
OHCassists students 
[continued from page 1] that a student may consult, such as classified ads in local publications, real estate agents, and current off-campus residents, D'Antonio suggested that the student first explore the OCH lists since they have been inspected and classified. According to D'Antonio, each listing has been personally inspec­ted and has received a grade of "fair," "good," or'"superior." A "superior" rating simply means that a unit dwelling has not only met the University requirements for acceptable student housing, but exceeds it. In turn, a "good" classification describes a unit that has met all requirements and those dwellings described as "fair," which while overall arc acceptable, have one or more undesirable characteristics. D'Antonio was quick to point our, however, that in choosing housing. students shouldn't just limit themselves to the "good" or "superior" listings. "Fair listings can be very good too. Usually they are lower in.rent, and the landlord may supply the materials to fix it up if you're willing to do the work," he said . . Continuing, he cited a case where four guys from Dillon moved into a real old and broken down place. The landlord offered to buy material for them if they would do the work. According to D'Antonio, when the landlord 'iaw the work they were putting into it, they were eventually exempted from three months' rent. Rochford added, "Generally landlords are helpful. Don't be afraid to talk to your landlord and ask for some remodeling mater­ial." Ifa student thinks he has found a place he likes, according to D'An­tonio, the student should check out the neighborhood and the landlord. If a student is interested in an OCH listing, he or she would find information on the landlord in the OCH office. Whether or not a student uses OEH listings, there is availabie information in the OCH office that could direct a student away from trouble spots. 
[continued on page 6] 
tool die and plastic mold design­·electronics technology 
Check into a skilled profession 
FULLY ACCREDITED 
Day or Evening Classes 
Monthly Tuition Plan 
For registration details mme in or call Mr. Judkins or Mr. Gage 
C219) 289-6391 

ACME INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY 

I 
.I 
I 
I I 

~---­
l' 
Goose's &Budweiser present 
a a o a o a~ o e•a a a a o o 

''A Seatch fot the Hottest Lips on Campus" 
Wednesday night from 7 to 1 am 
A chance to win an all expense paid weekend trip to New York for a photo session The top four girls will have their photo's submitted in the contest 
. 

The top girl will receive $25, 2nd prize $10, 3rd &4th Bud mirrors Contest will be judged by N.D. football players other specials during the night 7-11 Bud cans-2 for $1 
FreeT-shirts for all contestants 

Tuescby, December 5, 1978
the obseryer 

Film results please McNeill 
[continued from page 3] than half of the films." In cooperation with the film festival, the International Business Committee of the College of Business Administration provided a forum to discuss issues in relationship to the films and the developing areas of Asia, Africa and Latin America. Faculty members also offered 
The Commons 
is our specialty

Mexican Food 
Every Wednesday 6-10 Also, on weekends: 
*  Pizza  * shrimp  
*  fish  * french fries  
*  chicken  * onion rings  

Lunches Daily carry out: Beer-Wine-Liquor located at Corby and Eddy 
some formal discussions after a few of the films. Many informal discussions also took place in the residence halls and the Student Center following these films. 
The Student Government and the Center for Experiential Learning are planning another film series at the beginning of the second semester. This series "wiii focus on issues of social concern more
• 

, Contact Capt. Davis 
or Capt. Norris at 283-6634 
directly related to the United 
States," McNeill said. 
The festival will bring films like "On the Waterfront," "Grapes of Wrath" and others to campus during the period of January 22 to 
29. If any students or faculty are interested in helping with this next film series, please call Paul Falduto (3626) or Mary Hawley (2788). 
OHCassists students 
[continued from page 4] One problem, which is perhaps the most serious yet the least frequent, is neighborhood crime .. "Living off campus, you are ex­posed to the real world just like anyone else," D'Antonio said. He added that a close review of current crime reports, which are available at OCH, reveals that zone 6, (the area bounded by Lincolnway• West and Portage avenues) and zone 10, (the area bounded by Twyckenham, Peashway, Hill and Madison avenues), are trouble spots. However, he also said that even these places could be safe if students take the proper precau­tions. According to D'Antonio, the most effective way in which a student can prevent theft is to get to know his/her neighbors. The October issue of "The OC Newsletter" suggests these pre­cautions: dead bolt locks, good latches on windows, and marking personal property. The newsletter also urged students to &ive the impression that someone is home at all times, by leaving a light or a radio on and parking a car in front of the house. Students were also urged not to make their "worldly 


goods obvious." Once a student has found a place that he believes would satisfy him and once he has checked out the neighborhood and the landlord, the business of understanding and perhaps negotiating a lease begins. Both Rochford and D'Antonio suggested )hat before a student signs his lease, he should take it to OCH and get some trained advice. Rochford pointed out, "Often what is most important is not what is in the lease, but what is not in the 


Gateway to a great way of life. 

HAD f10RE SUBSTANCE BEFORE 111£ PROFESSOR 

lease." 

One point that Rochford stressed 
was that once a lease is signed, the 
student is bound to pay the full 
amount of rent during the specified 
time period designated in the 
lease, even if he leaves early. 
Rochford said that one of the 
biggest problems that landlords 
have expressed concerns students 
leaving early. "Students don't 
realize that they're still on the 
book. The landlord must look for a 
new tenant, but the student is stiii 
responsible," he said. 

D'Antonio added that if a stu­
dent did find that he could no 
longer live up to the lease, he 
should go directly to OCH to obtain 
aid and advice. "Most of the 
time," he said, "you walk in, they 
hand you a lease, you read it and 
sign it. We're suggesting that you 
take it with you and bring it to us so 
we can analyze it." 

"Most people don't realize that 
you can negotiate," Rochford ad­
ded. 

D'Antonio concluded, "We want 
to protect students and respect 1andlords. We want to be fair and honest and find remedies that are 
equitable for both parties. 


• 



,•, 
Tuesday, December 5, 1978 
the observer

i···································································· 
LOST AND FOUND 


collegiate crossword \ 
Lost: To the person I exchanged CPO 
NOTICES The Ombudsman service will close for the semester at midnight on Wed., Dec. 13. Any calls for the rider board should be  coats with Mon. nite before Thanksgiving at Corby's -I goofed. Yours is a little small and my elbows are getting cold, so please call me. Korbs 1696.  I  
made by midnight Tues. (12) at the latest.  Lost:  Femal Great Dane-friendly, white  
Summer programs -London (with travel in Ireland, Scotland, England and France) and Rome (with travel in France,  with black spots. Any information please call 272-5027 evenings or 237-4038 days. Reward.  
Germany, Switzerland and Italy). Prof. Black (SMC) 4948.  Call  LOST: BLUE  1 PAIR GLASSES IN BRIGHT AND ORANGE FLOWERED  
SENIORS  CASE.  If found, plaasa call  Kathy at  
Caught in the career crisis? Seeking students to help manage family business, : paid vacations and holidays, profit shar­: ing and possible retirement plan. Call • 288-8218, serious inquiries only, no tel. : interviews.  7401. LOSt: Blue parka with a white fake fur collar at Goose's Thurs. ID's in sleeve packet. I have yours as aresult. Call Dve at 1138.  •··········•·•··••·•·•····•········. PERSONALS Don't forget to bring your quarters  
: Need a ride? Call Wilson Driveaway. : Cars to all major cities. All you pay for is  WANTED  tonight for the World Hunger Coalition's Quarter Night.  
:gas. Cars are brand new. For more : information, Call Dan at 1783. MORRISSEY LOAN FUND :Tuesday, Dec. 12 is the last day to apply : for a loan this semester. NEED QUALITY TYPING? • Executary, Inc. :Professional Typing Service, 12 type :styles, $1 /page minimum, Call 232-oB98. : "When you want the Best." ·-----------------------­:Central Ohio Club organlzastional maat­: lng Tuesday, Dec. 5, 7:00 pm, Lafortuna ; Amphltbaat~ .-----------------------­• D.C. CLUB CHRISTMAS BUS :Sign up in LaFortune Ballroom, 7-9 :Thurs., Dec. 7. $20 deposit required. : Questions, call Carl 3311. · ·-----------------------­:Volunteers needed to work with mentally : handicapped adults for Vz hour or hour :periods anytime from 10:30 am to 12:30 : pm on any weekday. Do you have an :extra V2 hour? Help a mentally handicap­: pad adult in the swimming pool or ·gymnasium. Call Mike at 1371 or Sue at :41-4832. . ·---------------------­: Government majors: Volunteer needed : to serve on St. Joe County Committee for : state budget proposals and legislative : action concerning rights and funding for : developmentally disable citizens of St. • Joe County and the State of Indiana. CAll :Mike at 1371 or Sue at 41-4832. LOGAN CHRISTMAS ACTIVITIES : The Logan Christmas Party will be held : this Saturday, Dec. 9 from 9:00 am to : 11:30 am. Come, bring a friend and help : all the kids enjoy Santa Claus and all the : fun. Activities which will prepare for the • Christmas Party include Christmas shop­: ping for the kids, a cookie-bake session : on Friday afternoon at Logan Center, and : a Christmas present wrapping party at : Bill Griffin's house, 127 Notre Dame : Ave., Friday night at 8:00 pm. Lots of : help is needed wrapping presents and : with the other activities, so join in on the : Christmas fun. Any questions call Mike :at 1371 or Sue at 41-4832. FOR RENT  WANTED: Ride to Washington D.C. area anytime after the 20th. Will share driving and expenses. Call Jim at 1789. FOUND: A man's Timex watch in Rm. 102 0'Shaughnessy. Come to office G89 ML to identify and claim. Part time dalivary halp wantad, must have own transportation and ba abla to work weekands. Hourly and commission -apply In person, Milano's Pizza, 815 W. McKinlay altar 4 p.m. 256-1853. Need ride to I.U. Bloomington Friday, Dec. 9, will share driving expenses. Call JB, 1161. Desperately need a ride hom~ for Christmas break to the Philadelphia vicinity (east on the PA Turnpike). I can leave Wednesday, December 20 at 12:30 and I will gladly share all expenses and driving. Please call Tom at 1138. OVERSEAS JOBS -Summer/full time. Europe, S. America, Australia, Asia, etc. All fields, $500-1200 monthly, expenses paid, sightseeing. Free info. -Write: International Job Center, Box 4490-14, Berkely, CA 94704. I sure would appreciate a ride to Daytona Beach, Florida area for Christmas. Willing to share driving and expenses. Call Damian at 1003. Babysitter needed 2-3 days/wk. for 9-month old. Schedule negotiable. Own transportation necessary. Scottsdale Mall area. 291-4530. NEEDED: Riders to LA-San Diego area. CAn leave any time after Dec. 18. Call John 7820. Babysitter, 15 hrs. wk., beginning Jan., for 2 small boys, your home or ours. Patient, non-smoking, nutrition-mind~d preferred. Univ. holidays. 289-9023. FOR SALE 1972 Ford Gran Torino, good condition, new tires and battery. Some rust. From $975. 291-4530 between 5 and 7 pm.  •. •  To Katie K., Thanks for the personnel. It was my pleasure to assist in any way possible sue~ a gracious and dadicated individual as yoursalf. (really) Your F;iend and Mine Tommy-After Saturday night at Senior Bar -whl will you antar for "The Hottest Ups on t.:ampus"??? SMACK • Watch out for the hottest lips on campus at Goose's Wadnesday at 7:00. Maddog -Now that you've danced with • your heroes, we're going to have to start : reforr~ing you all over again. The Corby's Crowd (Death to the Indian!) Mike V., Congratulations on winning #4 in fencing!!! Me, of course If you're from the Big Apple or therea­bouts, you are required to call Sean at 1771 in regards to giving me a ride home for break. Thanx! Happy Birthday, BILL FULLER. Love, MOM To my sweetheart (The Wisconsin : Wonder] Anne Weber of 214 Farley Hall..: My Thursday nite show is dedicated to : your gorgeous SE:If: Popsicles are·kinky, : but fudge is a bit much. (right Apollo?) : The Adonis : . Anyone witnessing or having information : about a disturbance in the foyer of Fat : Wally's on Friday, November 24, 1978, : please contact Attorney Charles Lahey, : 233-6699. :. KEITH HEll'S TRAINING STABLE Horseback riding lessons -SMC-ND. Qualified instructors/English and Western. Semester -11 week maximum­$100. Organizational meeting January 21st -2:00 McCandless Piano Room. Additonal information call Jo Hell 683-4467.  ACROSS 42 Faux ---­10 Puts in a new floor 43 In ---­(behind in 11 Stern 1 ---­system payment) 12 Nullify 6 Disagree with, in 45 Dumbbell 13 Ridicule law 47 Lubricates 14 Musical group11 Baseball hall-of­49 Neighbor of Turkey 19 Miss Williams farner, ---­Baker 50 ---­one's time 22 Former world leader, 13 Reduces in rank 51 Turkish chamber and family15 Show excessive 52 Snakelike fish 23 Las Vegas hotel devotion 53 Sidekick (abbr.) 26 Novelist Franz---­16 Learned 54 Newer film versions 27 Knocks down by17 Govern 57 One TV show punching 18 European country 60 Most sarcastic 30 Abbreviation before (abbr.) 61 Slanders a date 20 Wallach and Whitney 62 Aroma 32 Dolores Del ---­21 Bed support 63 Physician of old 35 Animal tracks 22 Lowest point 36 Certain race horses 24 Fine earth DOWN 37 Muslim ,25 Fedora 38 Most arid 26 Large grasshopper Constructed with 39 Dispatched 28 Zuider ---­standardized units 40 Offensive, as an 29 Put on a new book 2 Try to equal or odor cover surpass 41 ---­Purchase 31 What Edmund Hillary 3 Issue a new lease 44 Before conquered 4 Mr. Gershwin 46 Celebrations 33 No ----, ands, or 5 Famous king 48 Tree productbuts 6 ---­Fuehrer 50 Fundamental 34 Here: Fr. 7 Flightless bird 55 Golfer ---­Venturi 35 Gave a conceited 8 Statistical 56 Superlative suffix smile measures 58 Slangy throw , 39 ---­Delta 9 Put into service 59 "---­nightingale... " St. Nick appears at party Wednesday in La Fortune Attention all children of Faculty, pus Christmas Tree in front of Staff, Adminstrators, Students: St. LaFortune. St. Nick will be present  
. : Two car garage for rent. Two blocks from : campus. 277-3604..  FOR SALE: One full season lower arena student basketball ticket-Call 272-7674.  Tom Dowd, . • Your good a1m, great tackles, hung : tongue and the cake really made it a •  Nicholas Day on Wednesday, Dec. 6, at 7 p.m. in La Fortune Ballroom following the lighting of the Cam­ -A magic show -Goodies -Elves. All are invited, especially children and those who love children.  

Tired of High Prices? • · memorable weekend. Hope your birthday :: Coma Homa. Leave your campus worries 
Need a shirt for your club or dorm? is just as memorable! Happy B-day, :: behind and have an address that doesn't 
KENMARE INC. The Walsh Women :
-: say "Hall" in it. Rent-$50/month plus 
Has T-shirts galore at the lowest prices
: utilities. 289-7690. 
on campus. KENMAR has a sales Dudley,
.----------------------­
: 5 Bedroom. Gas heat. Furnished. representative on campus to fill all your Do you drink your Southern Comfort : 
T-shirt, sweat shirt and jacket needs at out of brandy snifters? Happy Birthday, •: Available January 1, 1979. Also accept­the lowest UNBEATABLE PRICES! We're there, The Endangered Species ~ • ing applications for 1979-1980 school 
Co tact ANTHONY TOTARO 4684.

: year. Lease required. Call now. : 287-1545 Henry De Rouck. Fellow Floridians Important maeting for : FOR SALE: Package "A" Basketball thosa who naad rides or riders home for : 
: Mature studants, share a spacious, season ticket. Include UCLA. Best offer -braak. Also to plan upcoming activities. : : furnished home in a very nice neighbor-CAll 41-4834. Tuesday, Decamber 5-7 pm -LaFortune • : hood near campus. $130 per month upstairs off tha Ballroom. : 
1972 MG Midget, good condition. 5 .
: includes everything. Call 289-0103, 
Michelin radial tires -luggage carrier. Walcome to Commercial Banking Night. •• nights. 
Spoke wheels. $1400.00 272-0331. Tuasday, Dec. 5at 7:30pm Hayas Haaly Auditorium Raception at Sanlor Bar 
.~-··········~···········~·-·······; .......•.......................... ~ afterwards. BE THERE!
.
.
. Olristnas personals for gala Skipper and Freddy still like to dance. Olristll'BS issue on Friday Dec. Their captors do too -Do you? 8 will be taken until 5:00 p.m 
LEGAL NOTICE: on Wednesday Dec. 6 at the E.G. Inc. will here by be known 11 AMEN Inc.
CJJsenler offke. 
AMEN Inc. announces offering of com­mon stock purdllslble through comptrol­ler's office.
classified ad. rates 
.
NUMBER OF DAYS . Paddlefish Blood Drive: : We need your blood Tuasday, Wednes­
.
. day and Thursday between 9 & 3:15 at
1 2 l 4 s .. 
. 
. 
the lnfi~. To reserve a tlrile call . Brian (1150) or Tom (1785) today. Paddlefishers and NON-Paddleflshers
! 1-10 1.00 1.30 1.75 2.00 2.25 .. 
are welcome to give.
.
11·15 1.40 1.85 2.50 2.80 3.15 .
.
16-20 1.80 2.40 3.25 3.60 4.05 . Get ,.... Cllrtstma Raa on 111e In the
I .
21·25 2.20 2.95 4.00 4.40 5.10 . dl1llllg 11111s t111a ..._ s...-.c~ ..,
. 
APO•
a 216-JO 2.60 3.50 4.75 5.20 6.15 .• 
11-:JS 3.05 4.10 5.55 6.20 7.20 •
•
IU A VERY HAPPY BIRTHDAY TO YOU*
36-40 3.50 4.70 6.35 7.20 8.25
ID DEINYIJI
l: 41-45 3.95 5.30 7.15 8.20 9.30 Hey! How old are you anyway?:;) 46-50 4.40 5.90 7.95 9.20 10.35 P.S. lhanx for the brown paper package. •
z 
GuessWho? : 

DEADLiNE. .-\11 classified ads must be received by P.S.S. Hal Hal 1remembered! : 5:00p.m., two daysJM"ior to the issue in,which the ad Don't furget to bring your quarters is to run. The Observer office will accept classifieds tonight for tba World Hunger Coalhlon's Monday through Friday, 10:00 a.m. to 5:00p.m. Ouartlr Night.
• -----------------------r .
•··••••······························•···············•····•····••·••••··•·•··•·····••··•··•·•••••·····•• 





ADVENT 

PEMAIICE SERVICES 
Will be celebrated during the season 

Tues. Dec. 5 11pm Grace Wed. Dec.& 10:30pm Breen Phillips W·ed. Dec.& 10:30pm Howard Thurs. Dec.7 10pm Pangborn · Mon. Dec.11 10pm Lyons Mon. Dec. 11 TBA HolyCross Tues. Dec.12 10pm Sacred Heart Wed. Dec. 13 10pm Fisher Wed. Dec. 13 11:30pm Keenan 
'· 

8 
the observer Tuesday, December 5, 1978 
ND defeats Rice, 105-61 

Flowers leads Irish in runaway win 
I
f 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
' 
I 
I ­
I 
I 
} ." 
~., ..~ >"' ... 
~. ~.~' 
-· ., 
Bruce Flowers down one of his six rebounds, as Tracy jackson and Kelly Tripucka look on. Flowers had 17 points in Notre Dame's win over Rice last night. [photo by Mark Ricca] ' 
AP football top 20 
l.Penn State (48) 11-0-0 1,159 11.Georgia 9-1-1 615 2.Aiabama (5) 10-1-0 1,091 12.Michigan ~tate 8-3-0 516 
i 

3.Southern Cal (3) ll-1-0 1,058 13.Maryland , 9-2-0 442 4.0klahoma (3) 10-1-0 1,027 14.Texas 8-3-0 401 5.Michigan IS. UCLA
10-1-0 950 8-3-0 355 6.Nebraska 9-2-0 856 l6.Pittsburgh 8-3-0 271 7.Ciemson 10-1-0 775 17.Purdue 8-2-1 256 
8.Arkansas 9-2-0 733 lB. Missouri 
7-4-0 173 9.Houston 9-2-0 682 19.Iowa Statei 8-3-0 86 
I 
1 

IO.Notre Dame 8-3-0 630 20.0hio State; 7-3-1 60 

Wrestlers finish 11 fh at RIT 
boards. mark in points for the first time this 
by Ray O'Brien "I felt Flowers did an excellent year as Marc Kelly, Tim Healy and 
Sports Editor job on his shot selection, concen­Kevin Hawkins all got on the board 
trated well and played a good while Notre Dame continued to 
A Kevin Hawkins driving· layup game," praised Phelps. "We outscore the Owls 16-13 down the with 13 seconds clinched a victory tightened things.in the second half stretch. for Notre Dame, as all 13 members and made some defensive Flowers was voted the outstand­of the Irish scored en route to a switches. It was great to sec that ing player of the game by the press 105-61 shellacking of Rice. kind of intensity at the start of the as he found the range on seven of 
Rice kept it respectable for the second half." eight shots and was perfect on first 14 minutes·as they played a Mike Schuler, Rice's head coa:ch, three attempts from the charity controlled offense getting the ball agreed with Phelps' diagnosis, stripe. into center Brett Burkholder. The "We had some good shots in the "It was a big game for me Owls got as close as six points second half and didn't get the ball because I haven't had a big gamedown when Notre Dame began to in the basket. After awhile you for a while,' admitted Flowers. 
foul as they attempted their full begin to think about it." Schuler "Anyone can score for us and court press. added that, "I thought Flowers was tonight I was in the right place at "I thought Rice did an excellent a big spark to them. He just the right time. I'm ready to play
job in the first half," complimented ignited Notre Dame when he came now and I'm motivated to proveDigger Phelps. "They played with off the bench." something in my senior year." intensity and knew where their Notre Dame continued to stretch Branning and Tripucka totaled 
shots were and took them." the lead throughout the half as 14 and 13 points respectively while 
Meanwhile, the Irish maintained sophomores Tracy Jackson and Darden topped all scorers with 18 a hot hand but fell victim to Kelly Tripucka continually drove markers in the losing cause. numerous turnovers. Bruce the baselines for easy scores. At The Irish take on neighboring 
Flowers finally got the home team the other end Notre Dame Northwestern on Wednesday nightmoving as he scored 11 of his 13 continued to force the Owls to take at the ACC. The Wildcats handed first half points in 41/2 minutes, outside shots holding them Rice a 93-71 setback on Saturdaybringing Notre Dame to a 30-18 scoreless for four minutes and forty afternoon ·leading Rice head coach lead. two seconds while dropping in Mike Schuler to this comparison:
Rich Branning also canned four another 12 straight points. "I think it will be a competitiveof five field goal attempts while "Our defensive intensity is im­ballgame but I cannot see North­
Rice's leading scorer Elbert Dar­proving,'' emphasized Phelps. western beating the Irish. North­den found the hot hand toward the "The key to the game was Notre western is not nearly as aggressive, end of the half, totaling 11 points Dame's domination ofthe boards," physical or quick as Notre Dame. 
by intermission. said Schuler. "They also bothered Unlike Notre Dame they run a 
Notre Dame blew their guests--off us with their multiple defenses simple offense and try and get the the court at the outset of the second which keep you constantly chang-ball into their big man (Brian J ung) half scoring 15 unanswered points. ing." . and let him do his thing." Branning and Flowers led this With eight minutes left Phelps Northwestern will be the last test surge as each chipped in four emptied his bench with the score for Phelps' Irish before they go points, while Flowers dominated 89-48. The second team proceeded west to take on the UCLA Bruins in both the offensive and defensive to take the Irish over the century Pauley Pavillion this Saturday. 


SMC cagers open their season 
by Beth Menke strenuous." 
Sports Wrlter Rounding out this year's team 
are the returning upperclassmen, 
including senior tri-captains, Kath­

If Jerry Dallessio and the Saint leen Cullen, Martha Kelly, and Mary's basketball team have any­Meg Holland; and fellow seniors, thing to say, Digger Phelps' cagers Mary Liz Dunne and Diane Kluka. won't be the only basketball team · There is an interesting balance in to watch in South Bend this season. the numbers of seniors and fresh­
Dallessio is the third new basket­men, while the middle grades are ball coach in four years at SMC. less represented. Juniors Nancy Unlike his predecessors, he is the Nowalk and Trish McMahon are team's first male coach. He :also joined by sophomore Mo O'Brien. happens to be a graduate of Notr~ Dame, class of '74. Dallessio The team got off to a promising 

originally hails from New Jersey, start by defeating Valparaiso 68-61 and is currently the guidance 
in a practice game last Thursday. · we have very solid coaching this director at St. Joseph High School. 
year."

And although Dallessio has•. Dallessio describes himself as an · According to Dallessio, the girlscoached basketball on the high optimist by nature, and has found have worked hard in the preseasonschool level, this season is ·his much to be excited about here at and are hopeful that it will pay off debut in women's college basket­Saint Mary's. "I am very pleased in the regular season which beginsball. with the attitude and the unity tonight with a 7 p.m. tip off with 
Also making their debut in here. The team has really begun to · 
by DIU Marquard At the RIT Invitational, Ohio Huntington College at Angela Ath­
women's college basketball are five gel. We may not play big name
Sports Writer State garnered tourney laurels, letic facility. Dallessio remarked,
SMC freshmen. Making the team schools, but we play some very
outdistancing ~cond-place Cort­"Playing in Angela is exciting for 
this year were Ann Morris, Diana tough teams and I expect us to be
landby 5114 points, 113 :Y. to l081/2. the team, because for so many
Bury, Mary Zuehlke, Jean Myler, in every game," he said.
"Despite our eleventh-place fin­The University of Buffalo, last years there was no home court at 
and Ellen Hoye. These freshmen Cullen commented on the depth
ish, I feel we made some important ·year's Divison 111 National Champ Saint Mary's. The kids appreciate
brought much experience from of this year's team, "Due to the
strides this past weekend. Apply­and defending RIT champion, fin­the facilities and so should the 
high school play to SMC. Diana experience of the freshmen, this 
fans."

ing the experience we've gained ished third. 
Bury commented on the transition year's team has much more·depth
There were several individual Dallessio is hopeful for a largefrom our early season tournaments, 
from high school to college basket­than teams of past years." Holland 
we shou(d improve our showing, bright spots for the Irish. Co-cap­turnout of fans at ~he home games
ball, "We have to work much added, "It should be a good year.
particularly in thisweek's match." tains George Gedney and Dave this year, and promises that those 
harder here, we have more practi­We have depth, the five seniors
Thus does Notre Dame wrestling DiSabato finished fifth and sixth who come will see "a pretty good 
ces, and the workouts are very. have played together all along, and 
mentor Ray Sepeta view his overall in the tourney, while junior brand of basketball." 
squad's performance in last week­Mike Wilda lost 9-7 to last year's end's Rochester Invitational Tourn­Division III national champion ament as the Irish matmen prepare when his opponent executed a 
Swimmer~-take first in' ND Relays
to open their 1978-79 dual meet five-point takedown/near fall com­~late this weekend. The Irish 
bination in the last 30 seconds of journcv to Valparaiso for an after­the match. Likewise, sophomore by Mark Perry stroke relay in 1:59.4, defeating the the Rockne Pool beginning at 7 noon . tch on Saturday. AI Mattaliano lost. to the eventual Assistant Sports Editor second place Toledo team by p.m. Then Notre Dame has an 
tournament champion. almost one second. away meet with Butler nextNotre Dame boasts a perfect 9-0 
"It's evident that our freshmen Although they placed first in only Although the Irish did well in the. Tuesday at 4 p.m. to close out theirledger in their series against 
Valparaiso, yet Sepeta is wary. will be a key determining factor one event, the Notre Dame swim relays, head coach Dennis Stark schedule before break. this season. reflected Sepeta, in his team used a stong over-all effort to was quick to point out that there is After the break, the Irish face
"Our first dual match will be a 
challenge for us that's closer to fourth year as Irish head coach. tie Wayne State for first place in a big difference between the .dual Wayne State, ~o-champions of last "Freshmen Curt Rood and Brian the Notre Dame Invitational this meets and the team relays. "The weekend's meet, in a return match­
home." Notre Dame's only inter­
Erard wrestled for us at 134 and past weekend. many new people on the team are up at the Rock. The Irish defeated~cholastic competition this year has 
ISO, and since it was their first The Irish placed in the top three used to the shorter distances that Wayne State by one point lastbeen at Rochester and at the 
collegiate match, they hda a little in all nine relay events in the meet, they swam in high school and in season, another in a series of close Michigan State Invitational two trouble reacting but this shouldn't taking seven seconds and one third last week's relays," Stark said. "I contests between the two schools.
weeks previou~ly. 
"Hopefully we will learn from be a major problem." in addition to winning the 200-yard think experience and strength will ".Jeff Moore also wrestled in his backstroke relay, as they opened
the experience we've had thus far be important as we look ahead to Grad B-ball
first varsity match at heavyweight their I 978-79 season in impressive
and improve our showing.'· Sepeta the dual meets." 
continued. "Thb match undoubt­after only one week of practice. fashion. Stark did learn somt;thing that 

meeting
edly will be ea~ier that the tourna­The brightest spot among the Notre Dame and Wayne State could be an asset to the team in 
ment competition we've had al­freshmen was .John lglar at 177 share the top honors with 87 points, umcoming meets. "The thing that with Wabash third with 75 points,
ready. but I think it'~ important who looked very good and strong impressed me most was the 
followed by Toledo, who pulled in
that we take smaller steps toward despite his loss." balance," Stark commented. "We inACC improvement.'· "Our dual meets in the next two 58 points. finished in the top three in every 
In last year's match, Notre Dame meets will be very important for the Kevin , Korowicki, John: event, which shows me that we're There will be a mandatory organ­team as they try to build up their Williamowski, Pat Schneider, and izational meeting for all grad school
blitzed the Crusaders 45-4 as the really not too weak anywhere.'·
Jim Link combined for the only basketball team captain tomorrow
Irish swept all but the heavyweight confidence for the rest of the The Irish swimmers begin their 
season," Sepeta added. · Irish first, as they won the back-at 4:30 in the ACC Auditorium.
bout. dual meets season this Friday at 





