-----~---~----------~~-------------------~--------------------~------· --~-----· 
' •• 4 
Burtchaell likes lit,eral education 

FR. JAMES T. BURTCHAELL 


by Mark Perry 
Staff Reporter 
Fr. James T. Burtchaell, at a small gatherin in Fisher Hall last night, stated that he believes students are pressured into study­ing for certain professions and are thus losing many of the benefits of a liberal education here at Notre Dame. 
Burtchaell discussed how col­leges and universities originated as simply training schools for certain professions, but gradually began to adopt a more liberal education. He advised students to use their liberal education to help them choose a career. 
He explained how training and education differ. "If you ask to be trained, you are really asking to be initiated into the skills that it takes to be proficient in a job or profession. If you want to be educated, you are not asking to be taught skills so much as to have your intellect trained so that you might be resourceful in thinking and expressing your thinking. 
''The point of a liberal educa­tion," he continued, "is to help the mind mature, and that might not involve any skills." 
Burtchaell noted that when making a career decision, students at Notre Dame have c1ertain advan­tages. "On the basis of selectivity, students at Notre Dame have intellectual and educational advan­tages that put them in the first one or two per cent of people their age," Burtchaell said.. "If you are talented enough to come to Notre Dame, it is likely tht people will look at your savvy rather than your skills. They are more interested in your intellectual ability." "There are many pressures on students," he continued, "not to follow their own intellectual curiosity, but to instead conform to some sort of curriculum." 

Burtchaell believes the present college process should be reversed, that a career decision should be postponed as long as possible. ''Why should you decide when you are a junior in high school what you want to do with your life," Burt­chaell asked. "Instead of deciding what to do early and then asking what you should do to train for that, ask instead what you really want to do next semester, wha:t would you find interesting. Then ask what 
[continued on page 3j 



server 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's 

Vol. XII, No. &8 
Wednesday, january 25, 1978 

HPC 'generally plans' carnival for An Tostal 
by Michael Lewis Senior Staff Reporter The Hall President's Council approved a "general plan" to hire a carnival during An Tostal week at last night's meeting in Howard Hall. An Tostal Chairman John  Rooney announced the plan, noting that there is "nothirtg definite" at this time. Rooney said that he had contac­ted a carnival own(:r and several schools who had sponsored similar activities, adding that "all of the  schools I contacted have made profits" through carnivals. He also stated that residence halls or other organizations could "rent a mid­way game and run .it pretty much on _ their own, like a Mardi Gras booth."  Several HPC members brought up possible problems, such as parking space and security measures. Rooney acknowledged these areas, saying that they would be taken into consideration in a more concrete plan."  "question" the proposed Student Government Constitution, stating that there are "several major faults in the document.'' He pointed out the "vague structure of the office of Judicial Coordinator" and the "Lack of an Impeachment Clause  
The HPC also heard from  Stu­ for  Student  Body  President  and  
dent Body President Dave Bender  Vice-President"  as  two  of  his  
and Commissioner for Social and  objections.  He also questioned  a  
Interracial  Concerns  Val  Hardy  lack  of  administrative  input,  
concerning this weekend's Work­ stating,  "I  called  Bro.  Just  
shop on Community Organization,  Paczesny (vice-president for  Stu­ 
and from Morrissey Hall Council  dent  Affairs)  and  he  had  not  
member Bruce Clanco ·concerning  received any information about it.''  
the proposed Student Government  Tom  Byrne,  a  member of the  
Constitution.  HPC  Constitution  Committee,  
Bender said, "I think it's really  responded by saying,  "Bro. Just  
important that we stand up for this  was given a copy and we invited his  
workshop," adding that the mem­ comments.'' He also noted that the  
bers of his cabinet were going to  role  of Judicial  Coordinator  was  
attend. ''One thing we can all work  outlined  more  specifically in  the  
for is the ideal we profess so much  proposal than the current Constitu­ 
as a university," he stated.  tion.  He agreed that there is  no  
"Hopefully the Student Govern­ impeachment  clause  in  the  pro­ 
ment will come out of the workshop  posal, adding "no one really asked  
with a clear direction to go in terms  for  one before.  I didn't  see  the  
of social justice," he concluded.  need for one, myself."  
Hardy noted that a  major  con­ The Council devoted a large part  
cern  of the Student Government  of  the  meeting  to  discussion,  
was to "get students more involved  concentrating on specific problems  
in social issues."  She added that  in their roles as Hall Presidents.  
the workshop was  an opportunity  The HPC plans to devote a part of  
for  students  to  "become  more  future meetings to discuss practical  
involved  in  local,  national  and  problems, such as the role of Hall  
world-wide injustice."  Vice-Presidents and section lead­ 
During a fighter moment at last night's HPC meeting, some members munched chips while listening  Blanco  addressed  the  HPC  to  ers.  
to other members' loose lips. [photo by Kevin Wal:sh]  - 

Urban Plunge prc,vides 'look' 
By Dave Rumbach plunges on those days," McNeil various cities by members of the revealed. Catholic comniittee on Urban Minis­
Senior Staff Reporter To receive their credit in Theolo-. try who place special emphasis on 
Over 160 Notre Dame and St. gy, students were r'equired to write the role of Catholic ministries in May's students participated in the a 3-5 page paper on their experi­responding to the problems of the Urban Plunge over Christmas break ences and to meet with a faculty 1 poor. Students typically accom­and got a firsthand look at the member for de-briefing and discus~ panied a priest or nun during their problems and complexities of inner dion. Students who signed up for normal work day visiting such city life in 42 American cities. the 48-four tour but failed to make institutions as hospitals, jails, 
Organizers of the one-credit it are not eligible for credit, McNeil schools, work farms, homes for theology course anticipated a group said. juveniles and drug offenders and of 215 students before last-minute McNeil also reported that 43 other situations of social concern. dropouts and severe weather trim­students had signed up for a St. Mary's senior Anne Bachle med the attendance to around 160, three-credit follow-up course to the described her plunge in Toledo, according to Fr. Don McNeil, Urban Plunge, called the Unseen Ohio as "positive" for the most director of the Center for Experi­City, to be given through Notre part because of her experiences in ential Learning. Dame's Theology Department. the "Family Tree," a home for 
"The majority of dropouts were "We're very pleased that 25 per­drug abusers between the ages of due to weather. There was a cent of the students who went on 18 and 30 who had "bottomed severe snowstorm in Philadelphia the Plunge have signed up for the out." • and New York on January 9th to the follow-up,' McNeilstated. "These were kids who had hit 11th .. and many had planned their The "plunges" are hosted in the [continued on page 6] 
SMC's used-book sale saves money, hassle 
by Molly Woulfe "It's easier to go to one place and look for your books then calling on 
St. Mary's first used-book sale a milliqn places." was held in the Norlh Regina Vidal estimated that nearly 1200 basement kitchen from Jan. 17 to books were purchased by over two 
23. Sophomores Maureen Read, hundred students. Patty Vidal, Susan Carberry, and Bargain-hunters who attended Linda Jacobs organized, publi-the sale were pleased to buy their cized, and ran the exchange. desired second-hand books all at 
Leaflets encouraging students to one time. "I thought it was a great take part in the sale were distri-idea. I saved a lot of time and buted last semester. Interested money," commented Kellee Ash, students dropped ~eir books off in freshman. the kitchen between Dec. 16 and "It saved me a lot of phone Jan 16. calls," added freshman Bernie 
Read explained that they were Ryan. attempting to eliminate the usual Students may pick up their confusion of signs, telephoning, money and unsold books today ip and rushing to different halls to the Regina North Basement find needed books. "We needed kitchen. All unclaimed money will more organization,'' she remarked. be donated to Logan Center. 
-~-~~-~-------~~~----~--~-­

the oburver 
,...News Briefs--------.... 
~============================National 
•

Ready, azm, ••• 
washington -Congressional critics already are taking aim at President Carter's proposed $500.2 billion spending budget, although formal consideration of it does not begin for another week. The administration will have its chance to defend the proposals early next month when the House and Senate budget commettees begin hearing on the plan, the first step in preparing the budget Congress will enact for the year beginning Oct. 1. 

Mitchell OK after surgery 
WASHINGTON , Former Attorney General John N. Mitchell underwent more than three hours of surgery yesterday for repair of an artery in his abdomen. 
Dr. Charles Hufnagel, chairman of the Department of Surgery at Georgetown University Hospital who performed the operation, said Mitchell came out of it in good condition. 

More volcanoes 
WASHINGTON , ·There were fewer earthquakes than normal in 1977 but volcano activity returned to average with three times more eruptions than the year before, the U.S. Geological Survey reported yesterday. The Smithsonian Institution's Scientific Event Alert Netword reported that more than 35 volcanoes were active in 1977, compared with only 10 the year before. 

Negotiations break off 
WASHINGTON, Stormy contract negotiations between the striking United Mine Workers and the coal industry broke off yesterday, assuring the union of the longest strike in its recent history despite Ohio Gov. James A. Rhodes' appeal to President Carter to end the SO-day-old walkout. Labor Secretary Ray Marshall said the administration "has no plans at this time" to invoke the strike stopping provisions of the Taft-Hartley Act. 
~On Campus Today_~ 
12:15 pm 
4:30pm 
4:30pm 
5:15pm 6:30pm 7:30pm 
7:30pm 
8 pm 8:15pm 


f*The Observe~l 
Night Editor: Frank Kebe (his first) 
. Asst. Night Editor: Joe Bauer (one of too many) Layout Staff: John Dondanville, Anne Bever, Lauren McNulty Features layout: Tony Pace Sports Layout: Paul (I told you they could) Stevenson The Main Men [and Women]: Mark Rust, Beth Rizzo, Rich Clarizio, Mary Jo Cushing Early Morning Typist: Me (also my first) 4:UOf LN Day Editors: Maribeth Moran and Kathy Connolly Copy Reader: Joan Fremeau Ad layout: an unknown personage Photographer: Kevin Walsh 
The Observer Is published Mon­day tllrovgh Friday except during exam and v.atlon f"rlodl. Tl)e Obsenmr 11 published by tile students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. SubiCI'tptlons may ba put"dlased tor no per year (S 10 ,.., semester) from The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Indiana, 46556. . The Observer 11 a membar of tile Associated Prell. All repro­tlllctlon rights are reserved. 
seminar, "determination of the mutagenicity of drugs and other chemicals," dr. mark hite-merck, institute for theraputic research, 278 galvin aud. 
colloquium, "thermal dynamics a century ago," dr. martin j. klein, yale university, 118 nieuwland, sponsored by physics dept. 
lecture, "reversibility and irreversibility in isolated systems," reilly lecture series, prof. john s. waugh, 123 nieuwland. 
mass, memorial mass for steven calorje, celebrated by fr. gorski, sacred heart church. 
meeting, sailing club, rm. 204, engr. bldg., new members welcome. 
lecture, "women in church today," american scene cultural series, marjorie tuite, o.P,., jesuit school of theology, chicago, carroll hall, smc. 
meeting, the society for creative anachronism, rathskeller in Iafortune basement, non-members welcome. 
basketball, nd vs west virginia, ace. 
recital, daniel kane, pianist, lib. aud., sponsored by music dept., public invited. 
Apply now: European jobs 
The American European Student 
Service (AESS) is now accepting 
applications for summer employ­
ment in Europe. 
For :;everal years, AESS has assisted American university stu­dents in finding summer employ­ment in Europe. The purpose of the organization is to place stu­dents in the country and job which interests them most and bring them into living contact with the peoples of Europe. 
For further information and ap­plications write: American Euro­pean Student Service, Weile 133, Box 70, FL9493 Mauren, Liechten­stein. 





----:--l 
Hawaiians tired of immigrants
I 
HONOLULU \· [AP] -Paradise beckons, but only if you're visiting. If you want to stay, be prepared to find Hawaiians trying to yank the welcome mat out from under you. 
''This state cannot accommodate 
every person who may wish to live 
here. It is that simple," says Gove. 
George Ariyoshi. 
Ariyoshi, himself the son of immigrants from Japan, has called upon legislators to take drastic steps discouraging foreigners and residents of the other 49 states from setting up homes in Hawaii. 
And despite doubts that Hawaii has much legal power to limit immigration, his ideas appear to have a strong base of public sympathy. A recent newpaper poll indicates 65 percent of the popula­tion believes something must be done to cut the number of new­comers 
The argument is that Hawaii today is a far different place than it was at the turn of the century, when boatloads of immigrants 
came to an uncrowded island group renowned for friendly welcomes. 
Today unemployment and taxes are high, and the economy un­stable. 

Turner's power expanded 

Carter reorganizes CIA 
WASHINGTON [AP] -President Jimmy Carter ordered a major reorganization of the U.S. intelli­gence community yesterday,terming his action a "major step forward" in safeguarding both the national 
interest and civil liberties. 
Carter signed at a White House ceremony a bulky executive order designed not only to str( amline the intelligence setup but also to put strict new curbs on covert activities that drew fire from congressional investigators. The restrictions include an outright ban on attempt­ed political assassinations. 
The president took the occasion to express his "sincere and com­plete confidence" in Adm. Stans­field Turner, and Annapolis class-
Great America seeks talent 
Marriott's GREAT AMERICA talent scouts will be recruiting Chicago area talent for three con­secutive weekends beginning Fri­day, Feb. 10 at Marriott's Lincoln­shire resort in Lincolnshire, D. Auditions will be held Feb. 10, 11, 12, 18, 19, 24, 25, and 26. 
GREAT AMERICA is looking for singers, dancers, tumblers, jug­glers and clowns to fill spots in seasonal professional show casts. The show will be open during 
spring  and  fall  weekends,  and  
seven  days  a  week  during  the  
summer months.  

For information call (312) 249-1776. 

Steven De Groote to perform in Century C.enter 
Steven De Groote, winner of the Van Cliburn International Piano Competition, will perform a solo recital in Century Theatre this Saturday at 8 p.m. 
De Groote, 24 a native of South Africa'· won the Van Cliburn last September in Fort Worth, Texas. He will make his debut recital at Carnegie Hall. 
Tickets for his concert this Saturday are on sale at Century Center, and may be reserved by calling 284-9111. 


Pool tourney opens Feb. 8 
Anyone interested in playing in the annual billiards tournament may sign up in the poolroom, basement of La Fortune. 
The tournament begins Feb. 8. 

The more than three million tourists who annually seek out Hawaii's sun and sandy beaches ­and spend more than $1.5 billion ­are still welcomed with open arms. State officials, in fact, want more tourism. 
But newcomers aiming to stay are different -a focus for the discontents of those already here. Here are some of the reasons: -POPULATION: In 1976 there were 886,600 residents of the seven populated islands that make up Hawaii. Growth trend projections show that by the year 2000, the state can expect 600,00 new resi­dents -less than 200,000 native­born, the other 400,000 "out­siders." 
In the 1970s, 40,000 mainlanders have been moving to Hawaii each year. And in 1975, the last year for which a full breakdown was avail­able, there were also more than 7,00 immigrants from foreign countries, primarily the Philip­pines, Korea, China, Taiwan and Indochina. -EMPLOYMENT: Unemployment is running about eight percent, compared to a national rate of 6.4 percent. Good jobs are so scarce that state officials are considering 
mate he named as dire-ctor of the Central Intelligence Agency. 
Turner emerges from the reor­ganization with enhanced author­ity, particularly over the prepara-. tion of budgets not only for CIA but also for the Pentagon's National Security Agency and Defense Intel­ligente Agency. However, admini­stration officials acknowledged Turner did not get all the expanded powers he sought. 
The CIA chief has been a target of internal CIA dissatisfaction, particularly for his abrupt firing last year of a large number of senior agents . 
Turner and other intelligence bosses attended the delegation from Congress and Vice-President Walter F. Mondale, who helped direct a months-long administra­tion review that led to the executive order. 
"In my opinion," said Mondale, "the most important principle this executive order stands for · is that we can protect our nation and do it within the law." 
Calling attention to illegalities exposed by Congress, Mondale said the order takes direct issue with those who argue that illegal means are necessary if intelligence activities are· to succeed. 
Carter assigned a major over­night role to Attorney General 



Notre Dame Karate & TaeKwonDo Club 
INVITES ALL MEMBERS OF THE NOTRE DAME 
ST. MARY'S COMMUNITY INTERESTED IN BE· 
GINNING THE STUDY OF KARATE AND SELF 
DEFENSE TO ATTEND AN 
introductory meeting at the 
A.C.C. (Auxiliary Gym) 
on Thursday, January 26 at 6.00pm. 
ALSO, PERSONS WITH PRIOR EXPERIENCE IN THE MARTIAL ARTS ARE ENCOURAGED TO TRY OUT FOR THE NEWLY FORMED INTER-COL• LEGIATE TEAM. 
~ 
a pilot project to allow two people 
to share the work of one full-time 
government employee. 

-TAXES: The Tax foundation of 
Hawaii says a hypothetical family 
of four with a 1976 ·income of 
$26,632 paid $10,00 in total taxes ­
more than $8,788.56 is paid for 
food and shelter. 
The taxes include such direct 
levies as property, auto and gas, 
state and federal income and Social 
Security taxes, as well as "hidden" 
taxes such as employer contribu­
tions to workers' compensation and 
business taxes. 
Ariyoshi's appeal to limit im­migration, made in his annual state-of-the-state address Monday, also came at a time when budget officials say there may be a deficit at the end of this fiscal year. 
One of his proposals was a legislative study to determine the impact of imposing higher taxes on future new residents "on the basis that their presence directly and immediately places new costs upon the public sector for services." 
In addition, Ariyoshi, a 51-year­old Democrat, is asking legislators to consider excluding from welfare those able-bodied adults who are without minor children. 
Griffin Bell, who henceforth must 
personally authorize the use of 
electronic surveillance, television 
monitoring, physical searches or 
mail openings by the intelligence 
community when American citizens 
or organizations are the targets. In 
the case of mail openings, this may 
be done only if mail has passed 
beyond the care of the Postal 
Service. 
The order states that intelligence activities "should be responsive to legitimate governmental needs and must be conducted in a manner that preserves and respects es­tablished concepts of privacy and civil liberties.'' 


ERRATUM 
Due to a typographical error, Vice-President for Business Affairs Thomas Mason was misquoted in yesterday's Observer as saying that the University was "unpre­pared" to receive the National Labor Relations Board's bargaining unit determination. Mason actu­ally stated that the University was "prepared" to receive that deter­mination. ·The error occurred in the twelfth paragraph of the article about NLRB unfair labor practices charges on yesterday's front page. 


Campus could become 

U.S. historical district 
by Ann Gales Senior Staff Reporter 
A large section of the Notre Dame campus will become an historic district if officials in Wash­ington approve a current applica­tion submitted to the Department of Interior. State authorities have already approved the designation. 
Included in the proposed district are the main mall in front of the Administration Building, adjoining territory where the first buildings were constructed and a large section of the South Quad. 
The application was prepared by Assistant Archivist Wendy Clauson Schlereth, with the help of Norman 
Burtchae/1 speaks on education 
[continued from page 1] you want to do with your life, building on one's growth." In this way, he said, students will be able to relax enough so that they can do what they really enjoy doing. 
"Never ask what you are going to do with what you are studying," Burtchaell continued, ''because you are not to do anything with it. If you are studying to do something with it, then you are trading in an education for a training. Training should come in post-graduate work or in an aprenticeship for the job itself." "Pursue your heart's desire intellectually,'' Burtchaell said, ''then at the point of gradua­tion you will have reached a point of maturity which is a much more reliable time to even look at career choices." "The people who make their living by using their wits," Burtchaell concluded, "are the people who need their wits educa­ted. It really doesn't matter what kind of studies you do provided that they are stimulating to you." 
Tutors, readers, volunteers needed 
A wide variety of volunteer activities are now open to Notre Dame and St. Mary's students. 
Anyone interested in tutoring, reading for the blind, working as a teacher's aid or as activities co­ordinators may call the ND/SMC Volunteers Services Office at 7308 for more information. 
Satellite falls ove1r Canada; radioactive materials feared 
I 
YELLOWKNIFE•Canada[AP)-K nuclear-powered Soviet spy satel­lite fell from orbit into the atmo­sphere above this remote region of gorthwest Canada yesterday, streaking vividly and soundlessly across the pre-dawn sky and rais­ing some fears of radioactive contamination. 
Canadian and U.S. officials said there was probably no serious danger. But five American military airplanes, to be joined later by four Canadian planes, flew to the scene, 950 miles north of the U.S. border, to check for radioactivity and possible remnants of the fallen spacecraft. 
"When it came overhead and we could get a good look at it, I could see dozens and dozens of parts," said Yellowknife resident Marie Ruman. "Each part had a long, bright tail. As it was disappearing the main piece turned bright red. I! was just fantastic." 
Canadian officials said any pieces of the satellite would have slammed into the earth in a sparsely settled area 60 miles east of Yellowknife, a frontier town of 8,000 on Great Slave Lake. 
Canadian Defense Minister Bar­ney Danson said he was "98 percent or more" certain the satellite, carrying 100 pounds of highly radioactive enriched uran-Crowe, assistant professor of archi­tecture. 
"The principal reason we are applying for this status,'" Schlereth commented, "is to gain national recognition for our historic struc­tures and to draw attention to our architectural heritage. It may also allow us to apply for federal funds if any restorations are necessary." 
The 30 buildings, which com­prise the district range from the 134-year-old Old College--located adjacent to the reconstructed log cabin chapel where the University was founded in 1842--to Cushing Hall of Engineering, where an $8-million addition is the latest construction project on campus. According to the appli<:ation, out­standing examples of Victorian and French Gothic archit·ecture are evident in many of th•e buildings planned by priests, bmthers and early members of the architecture faculty. 
Buildings of the main. mall which are included in the proposed his­toric district are: the century-old Administration Buildirtg; St. Ed­ward's Hall (1882); Washington Hall (1881); LaFortune Student Center (1883); and Sorin, Corby, Badin and Walsh Halls, built in the 1889-1909 era. The 106-year-old Sacred Heart Church, a French Gothic structure designed by Notre Dame's founder, Fr. Edward F. Sorin, and two associates, Fr. Alexis Granger and Hro. Charles Harding, is also included in the district, along with th·e Presbyter, Earth Sciences Building and Brownson Hall, all constructed in the 1855-1869 period. 
The portion of the South Quad, in the historic district, itltcludes three residence halls built in the 1920's and designed by faculty members Francis Kervick and Vincent Fagan --Howard, Morrissey and Lyons Halls--as well as the :South Dining Hall, a Gothic revival structure by Ralph Adams Cram built in 1927. Also included are sevc:ral buildings of the 1930's such as the Law School, Hurley College of Business Administration, Rockne Memorial and Dillon and Alumni Halls. 
Schlereth stated th~tt she became interested in the idea of applying for the historical district while working for the Historic Preserva­tion Committee of South Bend. She spoke to Fr. James Burtchaell, then University provost, about the pos­sibility, and Burtchaell asked her to 
ium 235, had burnred up in the atmosphere. 
"I don't think there is any cause for hysteria," he said at an Ottawa news conference. 
Within hours Prime Minister Pierre Elliott Trudea.u was defend­ing the government's handling of the incident in Parliament. 
He said he had been informed about a week ago that the Cosmos 954 satellite was tumbling from orbit, but that the precise location of its fall was not known even an hour beforehand and that he there­fore chose not to warn "every square inch" of Canada of the possible danger. 
Danson told reporters, that resi­dents of Yellowknife:, capital of the Northwest Territories, were not forewarned because it could have caused "unnecessa1ry hysteria." 
The chances that Yellowknife would be imperiled were "some­what less than bc:ing struck by 
lightning " he said. Other Cana­dian and U.S. officials indicated the location could not be predicted until early yesterdlay. American offi,cials said the s.atellite entered the atmosphere at 4:55 a.m. local time-6:55 a.m. est-and within a few minutes President Jimmy Carter and Prime Miuister Trudeau were discussing the situation by tele­phone. 
Carter's national security adviser prepare an application for the provost's office. 
Schlereth began work on the project in the summer of 1976. "Prof. Crowe and I made an on-foot survey of the campus, and he identified for me the architectur­al qualities of each of the buil­dings," she explained. 
The application, which was com­pleted and submitted to State authoritied in November of 1976, includes a brief history of the University as well as architectural information about campus buil­dings, supplied by Crowe. The Department of Natural Resources in Indianapolis approved the appli­cation last April, and forwarded it to the National Register of Historic Places in Washington where it presently awaits consideration. 
"It's hard to tell how long it will be before a decision about the application is made in Washing­ton," Schlereth commented. ''Cases like this one have been known to take as long as five years, but we are hopeful that a decision will be made within a year." 
Schlereth was recently named to succeed Fr. Thomas E. Blantz, associate professor of history, as University archivist, effective Sept. 1, 1978. Blantz, who has served as archivist since September, 1969, announced last March his intention to return to full-time teaching. 
The appointment was announced by University President Fr. Theodore M. Hesburgh, who noted, "we are fortunate to have a person of Mrs. Schlereth's compe­tence as we enter a period in which renewed interest in the history of American Catholicism, as well as in our own institutional history, will mean greater scholarly demands on our rich archival material." 
Schlereth received her B.A. in history from St. Olaf College in Northfield, MN, in 1970, and her 
M.A. in history from the University of Iowa two years later. She is now completing her dissertation in American intellectual history for a doctorate from Iowa. 
The Archives contain not only historical records of the University, but also an extensive manuscript collection on 19th-century Ameri­can Catholicism.. Schlereth remarked that as archivist she hoped to expand both collections and "to move the Archives into a more active role in the educational system-." 
Zbigniew Brzazinski, who made the first announcement of the space­craft's fall to Earth, said U.S. and Soviet officials had intensive con­sultations about the satellite for the past two weeks. 
Brzezinski said U.S. satellite trackers detected problems. in Cos mos 954 in late December and decided it might fall to Earth. In ant exchange of messages through Soviet Ambassador Anatoly Do­brynin, Brzezinski said, the United States learned there would be no danger of a nuclear explosion when the satellite plunged into the atmosphere. 
Heinz Kaminski of the Institute for Space Research in Bochum, West Germany, said the amount of uranium indicated the satellite was a "killer satellite." He said it is the only type of satellite that requires so much energy because it uses it to power laser beams. Smaller "nuclear batteries" with one or two kilos -two to four pounds -of uranium are less dangerous, but still an unnecessary risk because the same amount of energy can be produced from sunlight, he said. 
In Moscow, the official Soviet news agency said the Cosmos 954 satellite had been designed to self-destruct in the event of such a fall. It has "ceased to exist," the agency said. 

n"'".. ,, .. .,last Monday to Washington, D.C. participating "March for life." [photo by Kevin Walsh] 

Ralliers for life 
by Loretta Boch un-born child), the marchers pro­ceeded peacefully down Pennsyl-Although the spirit and deter-vania Ave. to the Capitol. The mination of the Fighting Irish tends Notre Dame marchers thet• visited to manifest itself primarily in the the offices of their respective 
A.C.C. arena, the Notre Dame congressmen and voiced their sup­tradition of rallying for one's cause port of the pro-life amendment, was reflected in Washington, D.C. soon to be voted on in the House. last Monday by the Notre Dame/ Although their primary purpose St. Mary's "Right To Life" com-for participating in the march was mittee. Five University members to join others in emphasizing that traveled with thirty-two other the fight for life movement is a vital South Bend citizens to participate and growing cause, the students in the 5th annual "March For Life" said that an important side-effect in the nation's capital. was the incredible morale and 
Marching were students Mar-enthusiasm which the experience garet O'Connor, John Ryan, Anne inspired in them. Blanford noted, Blanford, Mike Pierret, and Chris-"People were very kind to one tine LeBlanc. All are members of another and there was a tremen­the ND/SMC Right To Life com-douslystrongfeeling for life." The mittee. group also reported that Notre 
With a membership of almost Dame was very well received. 200 people, the group sponsors "People were very glad to see lectures, films, and liturgies in an Notre Dame represented," one attempt to get others involved, student said. because as John Ryan explained, Except for LeBlanc, this year's "many students are not aware of trip to Washington was a first for the extent of the Supreme Court these participants from ND, ruling." although Notre Dame has sent 
The 1978 March For Life attrac-people for the past four years. ted almost 100,000 people. Citi-However, the students expressed zens of every creed, race, and age no doubts about making a return gathered at the Presidential Ellipse trip next year. "In fact," claimed behind the White House. Display-Ryan, "next year we want to have ing red roses (which symbolizes the enough people to fill our own1 bus. 
National 


Champio.nship Party 
Wed. Night 8-2:30 AM 
*Schnapps 50' shot 3 drafts for $1,.
ND Gridders 
and Coaches 


drink FREE 

Valid ID's 

..;;l4.___....~tbii&.UeiL...Ioo£lb-sa-...rv_Jl_Jijau.r____~w=-=ednesday, January 25, 1978_ 




Some stolen /D's recovered 
by Tom HaUer know two people who didn't tum in The Library has been turning down their ID's said sophomore Alan the blue ID's while Nickie's,Himebaugh. 
Corby' and Bridget McGuire's Some of last semester's blue Richard J. Sullivan, University were not aware that a change had 
student ID cards, reported stolen registrar, said he expected to been made. last week from the ACC at registra­receive the recovered ID's in " a tion by an eyewitness, have been day or two," and would destroy recovered. They were taken by a them. All the other ID's collected boy playing in the Irish Youth at registration have already been Tutors sought Hockey League, according to Dave destroyed, he explained, so there is Barnet, Pro Shop Manager of the no way to tell how many were 
for area schools

ACC. The boy's mother returned turned in or how many were stolen. the ID's to ACC Security after Sullivan was not concerned how­Students who want to tutor this 
reading about them in the OB ever. "I can't get excited about semester the
with Neighborhood
SERVER. The unidentified youth it," he said. Study Help Program (NSHP) can who claims to have found the ID's He noted that the old ID's were sign up this week at the diningin the trash, was with three friends invalid anyway and will not be halls. at the time. It is unknown if they honored on campus. He also said The NSHP is the campus volun­have any more of the ID's. Barnet that security has been notified that 
teer service through which ND­said ten ID's and " a stack of the blue ID's are invalid, and SMC students tutor South Bend 
computer cards," were returned assumed that they would notify all grade school children. Tutoringand that they were to be sent to the the bars in the area. 
center captains will be at the South registrar's office. Director of Security Arthur Dining Hall with sign-up sheets Pears, however, said that notifica­
The witness who originally re­tomorrow from 5-6:30 p.m., at the 
ported seeing the cards stolen did tion of all the bars would be North Dining Hall on Wednesday not see any of these children. He impossible, but that the South from5-6:30 p.m., and at St. Mary's
said he saw "four college stu­Bend police would be notified Dining Hall on Thursday from dents" taking the ID's, but that shortly of the change. 4:30-6 p.m.they did not seem to be looking for Pears commented that he was Tutors usually spend one hour any ID in particular, such as that of worried about the stolen ID's "only each week with a grade school a student over 21. He also said that to the fact thatsomeof our students student to work on reading and he has seen a number of the blue could fall victim to false repre­math problems. Transportation for ID's "floating around the hall" sentation" by non-students using tutors is provided through Volun­recently. the ID's to commit fraud. It is for teer Services. Anyone with ques­
Other students have observed this reason that the police will be tions can call Maggie Brittan that many people did not even turn notified, as they are every time the (4-1-4260) or Rick VanBeveren in their ID's at re~istration. "I ID~s are changed. Ofthe bars, only (283-6372). 


Ninth graders exposed to street law program 
by Marian Ulicny ing, family and individual rights, seems to be self-motivating. Our She continued that the classes where students receive clinical Senior Staff Reporter and environmental law are con-kids are enthused, and I was really could be improved with more field credit for their work. sidered. Crutchfield emphasized impressed with how well the new trips, for example, to the court-Currently, Crutchfield and his 
The Notre Dame Law School has that the diversity of subjects will group of Notre Dame students was house "to make the issues more group are writing a section on expanded its pilot street law pro­prompt students to think about the received," he commented. real." Mengel added that the Indiana law to be added to the gram for high school students to law and how pervasive its effects JaneWoodwarc.l, a third year law program sometimes lacks contin-street law text they are using in the include ninth graders at Clay are in their lives. student who teaches at Adams, uity since the law students often pilot classes. Crutchfield estimates Middle School in Clay Township, Student-teachers are prepared in shares this enthusiasm, stating, visit the schools on an irregular that it should be completed within north of South Bend. weekly, two-hour seminars con-"Since I've been in law school, I basis, especially in the event of the year, so it can be fieldtested in 
Dr. Charles Crutchfield, asso­ducted by Crutchfield and guest hang around mostly with a lot of its snow days. Indiana schools. "The ultimate ciate professor of law and program lecturers in the various legal areas students. I really like being around The pilot program originated in goal of this project is to test law supervisor, explains the street law under consideration. Besides legal the young people because it's Washington, D.C., by the George-education materials so they can be project's purpose as twofold. "We concepts, the group studies skills helped me talk about law on a more town University Law Center. It is. used by any teacher in any high want to give high school students a for effective teaching·. basic level, so I can communicate now taught in all 15 District of school," he explained. practical knowledge of the liw. It The program was initially de-with a layman." Columbia schools and has been The program is funded by a also gives law students the experi­signed for high school students, Marie Mengel, in her second expanded to a number of adult and grant from the Lilly Endowment, ence of teaching what they've but "we've found that ninth year of law studies, teaches at St. juvenile correctional institutions Inc., of Indianapolis. learned, not just in lectures, but graders absorb the material as Joseph. She claims the experiencer-----------------­taking advantage of various teach­readily as the others," Crutchfield is valuable because it forced her to I I I I 
ing methods," he stated. 
stated. He admitted that he would carefully review her ~rst ye~r·s· 



J ne rs 
Law student-teachers use mock have like to expand the program to work. ''When you go mto a h1gh 
u I I 
trials, films, discussions and con­include a greater number of schools school classroom, you know the I 0 • • e I sumer redress games to acquaint than just Oay Middle, but there are students are going to have ques­the high students not enough law students volun-tions•. a~d you want to know your I want to t::!l"'f\.l,e $1 0 OQ? I I I
school with different aspects of the law. Topics teering to teach this semester. stuff ms1de out," she stressed. ~y· • • • • such as criminal, consumer, hous-Last spring, 22 law students Woodward pointed out the pro-I I 
taught street law classes in four gram's fut.ure val~e to high school JSign up for your Senior picture Now!I 
South Bend area schools: John students tn makmg them more 1SBP candidates: Adams, Washington, St. Joseph, comfortable with the legal system. 1 1 and the Whitney M. Young, Jr. If it doesn't seem so intimidating, the o· . H II &L Fo 
Street Academy. This year, 12law t~ey'll be ~~re aware fo their lOt 1n1ng Q S Q r1un91
meeting tomorrow 
~~~~~~~sp;r~n~~~~~L:~dl~~ams, ~~eh~~~~~k~~~mg to assert them," $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$11
Students interested in running 
Interest has not waned on the

for Student Body President and part of the high school students. Transcendental Meditation IVice-President must attend an Don Fiwek, social studies teacherimportant meeting tomorrow at 10 at Clay Middle, coordinates an Thurs Jan. 26 7:00 1 p.m. in the Student Government elective street law class which has 

Make-ups in fhe fall $1 QQO
office. Rules for the election will be 
received steady support from students. programninth -----------·
_J
grade "Theexplained. 
Navy ROTC awards ceremony 

The Change of Command and Awards Ceremony for the Navy ROTC will be held in the Ace Concourse at 4:30 p.m. on Thurs­day. 


Sailing Club holds banquet 
The Notre Dame sailing club will hold its annual elections banquet, Saturday at 7 p.m. at Bill Kostoff's · house. Next year's board will be elected and several awards, including "Sailor of the Year" and "Crew of the Year," will be presented during the evening. 
The Irish sailing season officially gets under way Feb. 4 with the Windjammer Regatta in New Orleans. For more information, call Bill Kostoff at 288-3078 or Paul Schappler at 1352 . 
. . 
·-0 
f 


Wednesday, lanuarv 25, 1978 the observer 


Windom's Thurber 



The many faces of William Windom. Above, backstage after the performance. Below left, in a pensive moment with his pipe. And, below right, behind one of the few props of the performance: his type­writer. [photo by Kevin Walsh] 
,_ 
He has been on Broadway, television and in the movies, so why is William Windom now in his sixth year of touring the college campuses with sketc~es of the work of James Thurber? Sure it is a way of making a livelihood, but an actor of Windom's talent considers more than that when he determines how he should ply his trade. Simply, Windom prefers a live audience to the silver screen or the boob tube and he especially enjoys performing for college audiences. 
Windom explains his preference for a live audience in this way, ''A live audience is like dancing with a girl; television and the movies are like dancing with ~: chair. It is that simple, live audiences are just more stimulating. Contact is important to me." 
The reason that Widom enjoys college audiences more than other audiences is because they are more alive than other audiences. "If I were to rank the audiences I enjoy performing for colleges students would be at the top of the list along with GI's and other actors. These groups respond, whether positively or negatively, more easily than other audiences do. In fact, people from the age 15 to about 25 usually make the best audiences for what I do." 
Performing for a live audience, especial­ly when you are the only performer as Windom is in his Thurber skits, can have its pitfalls. "Sure, I make some mis­takes," says Winkom, "but, if I ever get caught, all of my material is right there on the desk. Doing sketches such as Thurber, I can simply explain the situation to the audience and keep right in with the flow of the production. Besides, I would never try to con an audience." 
"Tonight for instance, when the flash went off from that camera, I was lost for a bit and I even forgot one sketch, which I later came back to. I explained it to the audience and, even though that particular sketch did not work that well, the performance proceeded smoothly. '' 
Windom's affection for the works of 
' James Thurber date back to his early days of schooling. "Like many people, I first read some of his work when I was in school and I have always enjoyed it. And, again like many people, I was a fan of Walter Mitty." 
"I never met James Thurber, but I have met his wife and she told me about his life and his writings." 
Windom's chance to do his one-man Thurber shows came as a result of his work in the television series My World...And 

William Windom On the Road 
by Tony .Pace 
Welcome To It. This series was based on gotten," Windom states, "is that some (1946-61) doing Broadway and off­the works of Thurber, and, after its would rather read Thurber than see me Broadway shows, then I moved into a lot of cancellation, Windom put his first Thurber present it on a stage. Even with that other things. Now, I'm living in California show together. Since then he has added criticism, about 95 percent of the reviewers with my wife and three daughters. We all other shows to his repetoire. He has a have given it good notices." have another child on the way. second Thurber show and two Ernie Pyle Despite his enamorment with the college "Despite the road work which I do, I'm shows. This variety keeps Windom fresh scene, Windom never has received a home a lot of the time. I only spend about year aft,er year. -degr,ee. "I have about two years worth of 25 percent of the year on the road." ­
"Not only do I enjoy each show which I credit at about seven different colleges Windom has a film Mean Dog Blues, do, I also have the option to switch to other which I attended while I was in the Army, with George Kennedy, and a television shows. I certainly won't get bored doing but I haven'\ completed any educational special celebrating 100 years of sound in this work," says Windom. program at the college level. I was bitten which he plays the part of Thomas Edison 
In th(: six years which he has performed by the acting bug when I was involved in a on the horizon. In the meantime, he will be Thurber, the show has only rarely received performance of Richard III. After I left the on the road playing for his favorite a critical word. "The only criticism it has Army; I spent 15 years in New York audience: college students. 
William Windom captured his audience last night at Washington Hall in his presentation of "Thurber." Windom enthused a near-capacity, expectant crowd to an appreciative standing ovation at the finale of the well-performed show. "Thurber" features selections in two acts from the reports, stories, and fables of James Thu:rber. 
The stage was simply set: a desk, equipped with typewriter, water, glass and briefcase oc:cuppied the center of the stage, and a simple stool was set to the front left of this. An equally unpretentious costume, complete with red socks and green visor, allowed Windom to slide easily into his first chara<:ter. 
Just as quickly, however, he jumped out of role to r1equest that no pictures be taken during the show. The quick transition from William Windom to the hind-sighted character narrating his past travel experiences, back to Windom, and once again to the character, provided the first glimpse of the talented performance that was to follow. Every action was deliberate, the pauses where he hinted at a smile that was all his own. 
The magical Windom-Thurber combina­tion continued to ironically explore the dilemmas of foreigh travel, using a French guide for British travellers. Portraying an English speaking couple, Windom depicted the situations listed in the guide, withough using the French translations. 
Turning his head from side to side, Windom switched cleanly from the deep concerned voice of the husband to the 
frightened whine of the wife. The guide and Windom ,;overed problem situations which occur on the streets, in customs offices, trains, atJtd hotels. Together Thurber and Windom allowed the audience to laugh at the ster•eotypical image of the fussy American wife who turns up her nose at 
foreigh dishes, and says in a semi-offended tone, "That doesn't smell very nice!" After a few more reports of travellers, 
· Windom stepped to the far right of the stage to tell his first fable. At this point he enlarged his cast of character~ to include turkeys, ·police dogs, a brt....11: bear, a lemming, and a poodle, among· others. Relaxed and informal, but constantly in character, Windom related the story of an obnoxious young turkey who would challenge the older leader, only to have the farmer interfere and wring his neck. Placing his black frame glasses deliberate­ly on his head and straightening his frame, Windom stated bluntly, "The moral: youth will be served." 
Another selection featured sections from a booklet, written by the character, entitled "Rules for a Happy Marriage." Thurber chose to stay away from the traditional male advice of "Don't keep a blonde in the guest room." Instead, he opts to delineate the more original and stickier situations of grunting affirmative responses to a ram­bling wife whom you are not listening to, and the importance of remembering the names of a wife's college friends, who are collectively labeled "the girls." 
Thurber's other advice on the matter dealt with violating the sanctity of a woman's dressing table. He cautioned against this, but also wryly advised the women how to revenge. the act by placing a turtle in her husband's bed. 
The completion of the first act presented both a more serious side of Thurber and the dramatic ability of Windom to muse sentimentally about the past. It was the life story of a black poodle who had lived her humble life in quiet subjugation to man's eccentricities. As the-pet grew older, she tolerantly looked with seeming comprehension at the human beings around her, hiding her disdain. In the end, 

by Rosemary Mills 
the animal apparently accepts her death with more undestanding than intelligent men, leaving the audience to ponder man's sophistication. 
Throughout the continued depth in the second act, Windom moved fluidly from the left to ' the right of the stage, interspersing flable and stories, pausing fittlingly between for a quick sip of water. Now even more completely into his characters, Windom switched effortlessly 
from male to female; from man to animal. Although the show repeats the male­female, man-animal confrontations, the individual situations do not seem even vaguely repetitious or boring. There is always a new idea, a subtle thought, another ironic observation of man's peculiarities. With every situation, Win­dom's knowledge of Thurber is revealed. At times, there is confusion whether Windom is himself simply relating Thur­ber's works, whether he is playing Thurber as a narrator, or whether he is actually the character. Thurber's themesdelveinto more serious instances as the show nears its conclusion. Although the animal fables remain, even they are of a more thought-provoking nature. During a scientist's conversation with a lemming, he states that he does not understand why lemmings rush to the sea and drown themselves. The lemming curtly replies, "I will never understand ,.·hyman doesn't!" The final selection in a most thoroughly enjoyable "Thurber" depicts Walter Mitty as the character who constantly fantasizes to escape from a boring reality. Even in his last line, dreamed to be a triumphant act of heroism, the audience senses the pity . Thurber feels for his characters. This emotion is reinforced through the intensity of William Windom's performance. 



-----~-· 
the observer Wednesday, January 25, 1978 
Egyptians blame Israel for impasse in talks 
Yesterday was another busy day at the library. As these people lean against the bar, their orders are Although she lives only 15 
promptly and courteously filled. [photo by Kevin Walsh] minutes outside of Newark, she generally avoided the city before her plunge. "I thought the 
• t AP]-M t E _ ·"He would not be toppled by the 
C:AIRObiEgyp 1[ °~her ~Jifn
1 
~ans Sa~~ ~ sr~ ~a t halt in nwar a ~ ?r e ~ ru~ sts sa p~a~~ ne~ottattons an an:hy tha~ t e t~pm~ ec~~omy, ;a esr to be the Mtde_ads c~sts,h~ofn mubel t
the prest ent s c te pro em a 
home. E t 
"I believe Sadat canT~1 e _gyp as lon.g as he w~~ts.. Eere ;s n~ organ~zed opposttton lD :YP t~n. Egyptt~?s tend. to wo~s tp . ~tr leader, a ~eadmg ~fttst pohttcs professor satd yester ay. 

St. Mary's to sponsor business/industry program 
by Jennifer Disabato 
The St. Mary's business depart­ment will host an Industry dialogue program Tuesday Feb. 7 in cooper­ation with the National Association of Manufacturers, the Indiana 
Manufacturers  Association  and  
South  Bend  -Mishawaka  Area  
Chamber of Commerce.  

The program is open to all college majors seeking career infor­mation in industry, according to IVee Navarre, student coordinator. It will begin with registration at 2 
p.m. in the dining hall, followed by informal group discussions be­tween students, faculty and busi­ness executives. 
At 3:45, a panel discussion moderated by Dr. William Hickey, vice-president for Academic A.ffairs, will be held in Carroll Hall. 
Business panelists from the sur­rounding area include Charles F. Donnelly, Vice Chairman of The Bendix Corporation; John W. Fishe 
MANDATORY 


MEETING
SMC FOR ALL 

REPORTERS 
.--------'1 ThursdaY. IL.....---____, January 26 6:30pm SMC Office Basement of Regina South 

NEW REPORTERS WELCOME! 
If you absolutely can't attend call Jean at 4001. 
President -of Ball Corporation; Robert W. Navarre, President of Simpson Industries and Bert E. Philips, President of Clark Equip­ment Company. 
The student panelists will be Veo Navarre, SMC junior and Virginia Goodridge,SMC senior. Following the panel discussion and question, answer period, an informal recep­tion will be held in Stapleton Lounge in LeMans Hall. 
Dr. Frank Yeandel is the college coordinator of the program to which students and faculty from 18 surrounding colleges and universi­ties have been invited. According to Veo Navarre, primary interest should be displayed by students due to the number of students planning to enter business fields and the prominence of the indus­tries represented. Registration forms can be ob­
tained from  the  business  depart  
ment  of St.  Mary's  or  from  Veo  
Navarre.  

handling of the negotiations with 
Israel but by the economy." 
As long as Sadat continues to receive the support of the Egyptian army, analysts say, and as long as the economy continues to make 
.. . . , · h
dramatic tmprovement, m t e words of World Bank President Robert McNamara, Sadat seems 
assured of maintaining a free negotiating hand. 
The Egyptian public greeted with jubilation Sadat's Nov. 19-21 fence-mending visit to Jerusalem 

Students encouraged £$ ··~ by Urban Plunge ·, / 
[continued from page 1] rock bottom and had some of the worst experiences with drugs imaginable,'' Bachle explained adding "they were so positive and enthusiastic about everything that it was very encouraging." Bachle also visited a jail, a work house for habitual offenders, and a special school for emotionally handicapped children with the priest and nun who acted as her guide. While most students went on their plunges in groups of three or more, MaureenLoughney, a Notre Dame sophomore plunged into Newark, N.J. alone. "I was somewhat afraid at ftrst because of Newark's reputation, but now I have a whole new idea of the city." she stated at a meeting held to discuss plunge experiences Sunday night. 
and his subsequent declarat~on of "No more war." Many saw tt as a solution to Egypt's economic de­pression and hoped more money could be diverted from defense spending into social programs aimed at improving the standard of 
I" · 
tvmg. . . , 
The relentless nse m Egypt s cost of living has been blamed for the bloody riots of January 1977 when nearly 1,000 persons were killed or injured in v~ole~ce . that Sadat claimed was Sovtet-msptred. 
The steady increase in popula­tion puts pressure on housing and job markets, but economists say significant progress has been made 
recently with t?e help of mas~ive injections of. at~ from the Um~ed 
States and oil nch Arab countrtes 
like Saudi Arabia. "As long a Sadat keeps the people fed, the only danger is from the army, but who really knows how they feel?" a political analyst said. · Western diplomats say the' Egyptian army, one of the few organized groups with national 


Who are you, telling -ushow 
to run our 



business? 
It takes a lot of confidence to come fresh out of school and begin telling us how to do things. 
On the other hand, it takes an un­usual company to provide the kind of environment where that can happen. but that is exactly the environment you'll find at Scott Paper . 
We constantly search for people who have the ability to respond to chal­lenge and think for themselves, those with the initiative and desire to seek al­ternatives, the skill and courage to con­vince others that there are better ways and who aren't afraid· to express their ideas. 
At Scott. we admire an aggressive stance because we are an aggressive company. You can make your own op­portunities with us ... and we'll prove it. 
Contact your placement office for information. 

SCOII 
an equal opportunity employer, m/f 

political clout, so far has lent full 
support to Sadat's peace initiative 
despite the uncertain status of 
negotiations. 

''The broad ideological spectrum 
supporting Sadat is astonishing," 
said a Western professor of politi­
1 · 
ca sctence. 

Sadat's abrupt move last week 
recalling his foreign minister from 
the Egyptian-Israeli political talks 
in Jerusalem was met with dis· 
appointment by the Egyptian man 
in the street. But the Egyptian 
public directed its anger outward 
towards Israel and agreed with Sadat's statements accusing Israel of undermining his peace drive. 
"A few days ago I thought peace was a step away," said Osman 
Kh n C · f · 

a 1 • a atro 0 P tctan. "Now it may be years away. You can see Israeli Prime Minister Manacham Begin doesn't want peace because when we offered it to him, he turned away." Some scattered opposition to Sadat has surfaced, however. 
situation was hopeless ... now, think I'd like to go there more often, '' Loughney stated. 
The Urban Plunge, now in its fourth year, is sponsored by the Community for International Lay Apostolate (CILA), the Catholic committee on Urban Ministry (CCUM); Student Government, the Departments of Theology at St. Mary's and Notre Dame and the Center for Experiential Learning. The number of students partici­pating in the Urban Plunge has increased from 20 in 1975 to 160 th~ year. 

McNeil feels that experiential learning programs like the Urban Plunge should expand with increas­ing student interest."! see this and the Neighborhood Roots program as beginnings. Experiential pro­grams should be added and ex­panded according to student inter­est." 
''People seem to see things differently in the light of what they experience," McNeil added. 
Egypt's small leftist party, which has opposed Sadat's initiative from the start, called for cutting contacts with Israel and the United States after the Jerusalem talks broke down last week. In addition, Arab hardliners within Egypt vigorously 
opposed Sadat's efforts. 
On the conservative side, the right-wing magazine El Daw called on Muslims to unite and retake Arab-Jerusalem by force. But there was no war fever within the country and the call went un­heeded. 
SMC frosh to hold meeting 

St. Mary's freshman class will hold a meeting for all class mem­bers tomorrow at 8 p.m. in Regina basement. Plans for this semester, including the class formal, will be discussed. Cookies and punch will be served. 

Wednesday, january 25, 1978 the ObHrvt[ 
7 


HOW HIGH IS 10UR College f-ball in perspective 
by Edmund P. Joyce baby with the bath water. who helps you with problems you Most critics of big-time college · would never have had in the first 
Football is as much a part of the football have had little or no place if you hadn't got married. American scene in the fall as the first-hand experience with it. I am Most thoughtful college football multi-colored leaves and is particularly irritated by statements administrators agree on two sub-. welcomed with equal enthusiasm such as one in a recent educational jects: by millions of fans. We should journal the said, "Compelling (l)Football should provide an never forget that it is a game. evedence exists of the corrosive educational benefit for the player, 
Let us not delude ourselves, as effects of big-time college athletics integrated with and not divorced 
(Economics Quotient) some people have done, into on institutions and students." from his total academic ecperience thinking that football is the most Well my university is engaged in at the college. This means he important activity of our national big-time college athletics, but I should not be exploited for his life. Rather, let us accept it for have no evidence concerning athletic talents. He should qualify
CAN YOU ANSWER 
what it is-a game of skell, a game of corrosive effects. Quite the con­for college work. He should makeBASIC ECONOMIC QUESTIONS thrills, a game of inches, a game of trary. It is difficult to respond to regular progress toward a degree luck, a game of teamwork-in brief, this kind of criticism because you and achieve that degree. His study 

LIKE THESE? 
a combination of factors that fuse wind up fighting windmills. time should not be denied. into a few hours of soul-stirring I wish that anyone who under­(2)No school should enjoy an excitement. Football aslo provides takes a meaningful study of college unfair advantage over another.
True False 
a rather special kind of glue that football to determine its value This requires certain common para­0 0 ( 1.) Producers of goods outnumber bonds its partisans in a would go to the most authoritative meters for football programs; for camaraderie that transcends race, source-the football players them­example, the size of coaching
producers of services in our economy. 
social status, place of origin or selves. For every athlete who feels staffs, the number of athletes 0 0 (2.) The value of all U.S. goods and religion. unrewarded by his ·participation in receiving grants-in-aid, allowable It is important to remember that football, I believe you will find SO recruiting trips, practice sessions
services produced in one year is called Gross 
college football was not a Madison who will testify to the real benefits and so forth.National Product (GNP). Avenue creation. It was not they derive from it. Colleges should be able to place designed to sell soap or beer. It Like all good things, themselves withing a national·
0 0 (3.) Inflation reduces the standard 
was not a Machiavellian move by intercollegiate football is subject to grouping· of schools with like­of living of people on relatively fixed incomes. administrators to generate huge misuse in our imperfect world. minded objectives for football pro-
sums of money for financially Many things can still be done to . grams. The N.C.A.A. has been
If you found these questions tough, your 
pinched colleges. eliminate abuses, but we lack the struggling for years with a reor­·Economics Quotient, your E.Q., equid prob­It started in the grass roots, with proper mechanism for putting them ganization that could bring this the students themselves, but there into practice. about. Hopefully, it will be
ably stand some improvement. 
was obviously something about the The Ntional Collegiate Athletic effected at the convention this A special booklet on our American sport that struck a responsive chord Association has been the only week. in the American character. instrument for this purpose, but it
~conomic System can help you do just that. 
Spectators began thronging to the is such an unwieldy organization, Editor's note: This article Is
It's fact-filled, easy reading and free. 
games, willing to pay to see_ 11 attempting to accommodate adapted from Fr. Joyce's address For your copy, just mail the coupon. young men · match brains and disparate philosophies and last month at the banquet of the brawn and spirit against 11 other programs, that it has not been National Football Foundation and ANSWERS: 1."£ J."c .:n young athletes. The monies particularly effective. Someone Hall of Fame, which honored him provided by these spectators mentioned that being in the with It's annual Distinguished enabled the colleges to hire N.C.A.A. is like having a spouse American Award. The American Economic Sys~~em outstanding coaches, to construct large stadia and to provide
We should all learn more about it ND women triumph, 68-39
financial aid for tens of thousands r----------------, of talented youngsters who without [continued from page 8] College. The game will be a tough 1 "E~onomics; Pueblo, Colorado 81009 I such aid could not have attended Bob Scott both agreed the team one according to. Coach Scott. "We 
college. "looked tough." "I think they're beat them by 12 last time and youI I want to improve my E.Q. Please send me a free 1 For all of its enormous growth in starting to play up to their poten­know they will be looking for I copy of the booklet about our economic system. I popularity, intercollegiate football tial, but I know that they're still revenge. 
has had bumpy roads to travel. capable of more," Petro stressed. Game time i:; set for 7 p.1..1. in the I Name I Some critics maintain that colleges "We're working the ball around a Arena. are demeaned or somehow tllnder­lot better nwo and getting in some I Address I mined by the entertainment good shots." Scott ehcoed Petro's Men' IH t et 
aspects of college football. Others sentiments and added, "This was S Q me
I I 
cling to the so-called antiquated one of the best defensive efforts There will be an important
1 City State Zip_ 1 
. amateur ideal that sees in any kind yet; I think the fan support ha.d a lot meeting for the Men's Interhall of financial aid to a student-athlete to do with the outcome of the game Basketball captains Wednesday,
I rm ..--~ I 
the taint of professionalism. too." Jan 25, at 4:30 p.m. in the ACCI ~I \_.) & TheAdve<hSingC=Cii&US Deporlmen! ol (CJm~T"erce I Others, shocked by the occasional Notre Dame will try to duplicate Auditorium. Important scheduleL________________ J malfeasance by a school or an last night's victroy this Friday revisions will be distributed so all 
athlete, would like to throw out the night as they take on St. Josephs teams must be present_. 
. 1 li. ~ ApWIIC 5efVICe message ol Thts Newspape~ 
NOTICES 
Dissertations, manuscripts, papers typed. IBM Selection II. Linda's Letters, 287­4971. 
Accurate , fast typing. Mrs. Donoho, 232-0746. Hours: 8 am to 6 pm. 
Typing done-Fast, Accurate, Reasonable service. Close to campus. Ph 272-7866. 
CONTACT LENS WEARERS: Save on barnd name hard and soft lens supplies. Send for afree illustrated catalog. Contact Lens Supplies, Box 7453, Phoenix, Arizona 85011. 
MORISSEY LOAN FUND Student loans at one percent interest, due in thirty days, $2D-$150. One day wait. LaFortune 'Basement, 11:15-12:15, M-F. 
NEED QUALITY TYPING? Executary Inc., Professional Typing Service IBM Correct­ing Selectrics. 85 cents per page minimum. Call 232-Q898, "When you want the best." 
TRANSCENDENTAL MEDITATION: more about the TM program: Thursday, January 26, 7:110 pm Library Auditorium. 232-2808. 
FOR RENT 
Near NO: Cape Cod two bedrooms, fireplace, partially furnished. 272-6174, evenings. 1 
LOST AND FOIUNO 

LOST: Set of keys by ACC Ice Rink. Honda key. Please return, call 277-0222, 234-8279, or turn in to Rink pro shop for 'Thelma. 
FOUND: In LaFortune Student Center, two days before X-Mas, a valuable writing instrument. Call Maribeth, 3803, to identify. 
FOUND: Pair of wire rimmed glasses in a brown cigarette type case on the road between the Library and O'Shag. Call 
8842. 
LOST: Brown plaid wool scarf Sat. night at Guiseppe's -Very !:pecial X-Mas present! Call 8132. 
LOST: red necklace, looks Iike coral. Call 41-4161. 
FOR SALE 

Portable GE dishwasher, Butcher block top, $60, 277-2131. 
Bl C981 turntable, only three months old. 
Comes with Shure M91ED cartridge, walnut base and dustcover. Must sell. Call3058. 
FULL COLOR COTION EIOWL PICTURE NOW AVAILABLE. CAI"L 8982. 
Still need books? Pana'ora's has used inexpensive books for many NO classes. We also buy used books. 937 South Bend Avenue (near Corby's. 233-2342. 
Skis -Rosslgnor Roc 550's with Salomon 505's -excellent condition. Dave 
277-4784. • 
For sale, Washburn 0-2a guitar, three months old. $250. Paul, 277-1874. 
FOR SALE: 19.6 Coachman travel-trailor· like new condition; sleeps six· self contained. $3300. Call after 6' pm.272-8308. 
FOR SALE: 3-4 bedroom quadlevel; family room with fireplace; stove, refrig­erator, dishwasher, humidifier; custom made drapes; professionally landscaped; five minutes from campus. Low 50's. Call after 6 pm. 272-8308. 
Stereo for sale. Turntable, receiver, 8 track, speakers. Call Mike, 232-Q550. 
WANTED 
2 Marquette tix, will pay reasonable price. Call1612. 
One roomate to share apartment at campus view. Call Bill at 277-3509. 
Two roomates for Campus View apart­ment ior the remainder of the semester. Call 277-2761 after 7:00pm. 
Will pay your price for GA Marquette tix. Call 7946. 
2 Marquette BB tix. Call Don 233-13036. 
HELP: Need Marquette tix. Will pay good $. Cali 283-8830. 
Am interseted in purchasing a bunch of tickets for Marquette game. Call John, 283-3827. 
NEEDED: 3 GA basketball tickets to Maryland. Call Chuck 1143. 
Desperately need three or four tix for the Maryland game. Call 287-8479: 
Need 2 BB tickets for Maryland. Call 256-1341. 
Two people need rides to Chicago area. February 17, 1978. Call 4822 (Tricia) 
Need two Marqueete GA tickets. Call Diane 7883. 
Need ride from Mansfield, Ohio or along the turnpike back to NO Sunday, January 
29. Call Diane -7883. 
Need three Maryland GA tickets. Call Matt, 3187, evenings. 
Wanted: 1or 2 B-Ball tix for Marquette. Call6326. 
Badly need Marquette tix. Tom, 1066. 

NEEDED: Somebody to take over my lease two blocks from campus. Ed, 8886. Share an apartment cheap! 
Ned riders to and from Rochester N.Y., January 29th weekend. Call Tim. 1045. 
EXCITING OPPORTUNITY-Students needed to assist national travel company with Notre Dame upcoming Easter, Spring vacation to the Bahamas. For information caii1-80D-835-2246 and leave name and phone number, and best time to be contacted. 
House parent room and board and 85 dollars per week tax free: Close to campus: Flexible hours: 232-4805. 
PERSONALS 

TOM FEIFAR for Little Miss Paddlefish. 
To the senior who lives with a gorilla named gilbert, thank you for a Won-elk­lui weekend! 
Signed, afriend 
You will vote for Tom Feifar for Little Miss Paddlefish. How could you be so stupid not to? 
Tom Feifar -I've got me an overrdose of rock and roll, do you? 
Slammin' Sammy 
Rusty Lisch for Little Miss Paddlefish. 

ALL SMC REPORTERS: Mandatory meeting Thursday, 6:30 pm, in SMC office-Basement of Regina South. 
Get soaked to the gills.... Paddlefish Happy Hour this Friday from 3-6 at the Library. T-shirt orders will be taken. Also, there will be voting for little Miss Paddlefish. One cent per vote, with money going to charity. 
LATIN TUTOR DESPERATELY NEED-­ED SECOND SEMESTER FRESHMAN LATIN. WILL MEET YOUR PRICE. CALL 287-9104. 
HAPPY HOUR this Friday at the Library from 3-6. Be there!! Sponsored by the PFC. 
Vote Tom Feifar for Little Miss Paddle­fish. 
HELP ME CELEBRATE MY BIRTHDAY BY SELLING ME TWO TIX TO THE MARQUETIE GAME. CALL KATE, 
1264. 
His gills are the best. Tom Feifar for little miss paddlefish. 
Mom, we miss you. Please come home. Love, Billy B. 
If Mrs. Bis ever going to be seen again, call1646. 
Tony, Thanks for listening -Just give me time. 
Stevie-
Sorry I cut you out of the honorable mention. Yo_u know you deserve more than that. 
Rosie 

There is nQthing fishy about Tom Feifar as L.M.P. 


ND grapplers capture four victories, fall twice 
by Brian Beglaae The 126 pounder received a cut After the Midlands Toruney the 37-11 and Southern Illinois 27-12. forfeit anything though," 
Sports Writer above· the eye during practice rest of the ND mat squad began An Irish victory over Marquette continued the coach, who is an 
which required stitches. To com­returning to prepare for two home Jan. 17 was followed by two advisor in the Freshman Year 
The Notre Dame wrestling team plicate matters, the native of meets. The Irish met with DePauw victories over Wabash and Millikin Office. found little time to relax and enjoy columbus, Ohio reopened the and Franklin Jan. 10, and lllinois Jan. 21. The latter match was held 
To add to Notre Dame's 

the Christmas holidays like most wound in practice and had to have State, Southern Dlinois, and Mid­at Millikin and Notre Dame problems with injuries will be the other students. Two home dual it stitched up again. He is doubtful dle Tennessee Jan. 14. Coach defeated the host school36-3 while tough competition they face. 
meets, one away match, and the to make this weekend's trip to Sepeta's wrestlers came away with beating Wabash 32-12. 
''Minnesota and Missouri areMidlands Tournament gave the Drake and Nebraska. victories over three of the schools. 

Gedney, DiSabato, Padden, Bob both ranked in the top 10 and areIrish little opportunity for rest and The Midlands Tournament was "We did very well against Dreger (177), Mike Wilda, who has very tough schools. We will havethey were presented with a late the first step for the Irish over the DePauw and Franklin,'' com­replaced Landfried at 150, and Pat our work cut out for us," notedChristmas gift of four victories christmas vacation and four mented Sepeta. "The team McKillen all came away with two Irish Assistant Coach Jerry Ross.
whole losing only two to boost their wrestlers shortened their break and dominated DePauw 41-6 and beat victories for the day. Gedney,
record to 7-3. They found a bit of came back to Du Lac to compete in And then of course there is Bob
Franklin 29-12. I was pleased with DiSabato, and McKillen gained one
coal in their stocking, however, the tourney which was held at Golic. The star linebacker for the
the squad's performance." of their wins by fall. 

when injuries beset two starters Northwestern University Dec. Irish football team has a sore knee 
The Irish lost only one match to "I have been pleased with the
and probably sidelined one for the . 29-30. Mike Padden, Pat McKil­and is not yet ready to return to the 
DePauw and won two bouts by way the team has been doing. We
remainder of the year. len, John Torres, and Vince Keszei mats for Notre Dame. Last year he 
pins. George Gedney (118) and are a strong dual meet club and it
Pat Landfried was the unfortu­represented Notre Dame. Padden was wrestling at this time and the
Dave DeSabato '(126) registered has shown in our matches," com­
nate Irish grappler who suffered a was the only Irish grappler to win year previous he was back even
·victories by falls. mented Sepeta. 

broken ankle against Illinois State any matches and Notre Dame Head earlier. The junior from Cleveland, which put him out of commission. Coach Ray Sepeta was very pleased Against Franklin, the Blue and The Irish will have their work cut Ohio will be ready however for the The 158 pound senior from Green­with the senior's performance. Gold wrestlers turned in three pins out this weekend, however, when National Catholic Invitational 
ville, Pa., appears very unlikely to "The Midlands Tournament was while losing only tow bouts. they travel to Drake for a match on Tournament, which will be held at return for any action this season a very difficult one because it is DiSabato, Mike Padden (167), and Saturday and then to Nebraska on Notre Dame Feb. 5. and will miss the opportunity to open to any amateur wrestler and Pat Landfried all won by falls. Sunday for a meet with the ''After this weekend we wiii regain the National Catholic title he as a result some Olympians com­Middle Tennessee, Southern Il­Cornhuskers, Minnesota, and Mis­prepare heavily for the National won his freshman year. peted. This made the competition linois, and Illinois State traveled to souri. Sepeta realizes the club is a Catholic tourney. I'm very pleased 
Sophomore Dave DiSabato, who very tough," noted Sepeta, who is South Bend Jan. 14 and the Irish bit weak. and proud to be the host and I just won the National Catholics last in his third season at the Irish managed only one victory. Notre "We will be missing people and hope we can get good support from season, was the other Blue and helm. "Mike did very well in Dame defeated Middle Tennessee consequently will be weaker than the Notre Dame community for it," 
Gold wrestler to suffer an injury. winning two matches." 21-14 while bowing to Illinois State I'd like in some spots. We won't noted Coach Sepeta. 
Williams assumes new Irish role 
SOUTH BEND, Ind. [AP] -previous day when he scored 19 to use them. It's something Senior Duck Williams has assumed points against UCLA. everyone has to accept.'' a new role for Notre Dame and the "I'm able to sit down, observe Even before top-rated Kentucky Fight Irish 'guard appears to have and then when I go out on the court suffered its first loss Monday, made a successful adjustment. correct things that haven't been Phelps was saying the National 
Williams, the team's leading done well," said Williams, who Collegiate Athletic Association scorer last season, hasn't started leads Notre Dame's balanced scor­championship was up for grabs. his club's last two games. But, in ing attack with a 15.8 average. "There's no real powerhouse," 
each contest he's come off the "We're fortunate to have depth he said. "The team that is best bench to spark a rally that on this club," said Notre Dame prepared is the one that will win." produced a victory. Coach Digger Phelps, who admits Williams shared Irish scoring 
Monday Williams scored 18 he's looking for the team to make a honors with Dave Batton, who also points, including 12 in the second serious bid for a national cham­had 12 points in the second half. half, as seventh ratd Notre Dame pionship. Freshman Orlando Woolridge, defeated Dartmouth 78-64. It was "We've got 10 or 11 guys on this making hsi second college start, similiar to his performance the team who can play and we're going had 12 points and freshman Kelly 

Tripucka kept his season average in double figures with a 10 point effort. 
"Let's be honest, they were flat after the big win over UCLA," said Dartmouth Coach Gary Walters. ''At the start of the second half we missed three easy shots and Notre Dame scored each time. The crowd started yelling, the adrenaline started flowing and we were through. We shot well in the first half and played a methodical game to narrow their talent." 
There were nine lead changes and 12 ties in the first half, which ended with Dartmouth holding a 35-34 edge. Sterling Edmonds had 14 of his game high 23 points in the half, leading a disciplined shooting attack which was successful on 13 of 25 attempts. 
At halftime, Phelps had his players go into a press and it produced 13 turnovers as the Irish raced to their 19 consecutive home victory before their normal capacity home crowd of 11,345. 
Notre Dame broke a 37-37 deadlock with a six point streak and outscored the Ivy League school 16-4 from that point on. Two Williams baskets broke the game's final deadlock and Dartmouth 

Duck Williams has been logging just as much playing time, but not as never drew closer than three points a starter. The Irish guard has responded by leading the team with 18 as Notre Dame raised its record to and 19 points in the last two games, respectively. 12-3. 
National Champs to be honored 
The University of Notre Dame between semesters at the Univer­to the public, is cosponsored by the and surrounding communities will sity, where classes resume January South Bend-Mishawaka Area honor the 1977 national collegiate 18. The University's Marching Chamber of Commerce, the St. football championship team Febru­Band and cheerleaders will also be Joseph Valley Notre Dame Club, ary 5 at a 4 p.m. (EST) rally in the on hand. the Quarterback Club and Notre Athletic and Convocation Center on The rally, which is free and open Dame Student Government. campus. 
Governor Otis Bowen of Indiana, the mayors of South Bend and 
·uM hoc·key trip sponsored
Mishawaka and other dignitaries 
have been invited to express ap­The Notre Dame Blue Line Club The price will be approximc.cely 
preciation to the Notre Dame is sponsoring a one day bus trip to $16.00. This includes your ticket, football team and coaching staff for Ann Arbor for the Notre Dame vs. fare and drinks. No food is the 38-10 Cotton Bowl victory over Michigan Hockey Game on Febru-included in the price due to the Texas which brought the University We will leave around 3 p.m. and increase in the bus fare. its seventh No. 1 national rar..!.ing return after the hockey game. Beer We are also going to try and get in history. It will be the first and soft drinks will be served on another bus trip going to Michigan opportunity for Notre Dame's 8,500 the bus. Please call 283-8488 and State on February 25 so if you are students to celebrate ·c;e the ask for Ginny or after 5 p.m. call interested please start making your January 23 bowl victory took place 277-3186 and ask for Mary. plans early. 
by Laurie Reising Women's Sports Editor 
The Notre Dame women's bas­ketball team showed no signs of the January blahs as they over-• powered their opponents from Purdue University-Fort Wayne last night, 68-39. 
The opening minutes of the game were tight as both squads kept pace with each other in scoring. Notre Dame was able to work the ball in well to cash in on the high percentage shots but Fort Wayne stayed neck and neck on some deadly outs~de shooting by forward Lynn Linn. 
Molly Cashman, who finished second in the scoring department for the Irish with eight points, was finally able to put her team ahead 11-9, as she popped in a short jumper from the sied. Marge Meagher proceeded to get hot dropping in two successive field goal attempts from the corner, padding the Irish lead to 18-13. 
The Notre Dame defense, led by the fine rebounding of center Kelly Hicks, virtually put the lid on Fort Wayne's scoring for the rest of the half. Hicks, a 5-9 freshman from San Antonio, Texas no only dominated the boards, grabbing a total of 17 rebounds for the night, but also added 12 points. "I was really pleased with my playing tonight; I think the attitude of the whole team has picked up tremen-

dously which is a big boost to each 
player," Hicks remarked. 
Freshman Maggie Lally, who has 
surprised everyone this season 
with her scrappy, determined 
efforts, pulled in four of her ten 
point total during the closing 
minutes of the first half on a drive 
up the side of the key and seconds 
later on a short five foot jumper. 
This gave the Irish a comfortable 
half-time lead, 35-16. 
The second half was merely a 
continuation of the first as Notre 
Dame again out-manuvered and 
out-rebounded their opponents. 
Fort Wayne was thwarted nmerous 
times in their attempts to get a shot 
off by a sticky Irish defense that 
forced countless turnovers. 

Beteran Carol Lally warmed up from a chiily first half performance to share in the Irish scoring ·bonanza. Lally was instrumental in the Notre Dame victory as she pulled down six rebounds and set up many fast break plays. "I thinnk we're starting to play like I know we can; all those hours of practice time working in the fun­dasmentals is starting to pay off," 
the co-captain commented. 
The score kept mounting as coach Sharon Petro substituted freely from her bench. Finally, time mercifully ran out on the clock for the Fort Wayne team with the Irish on top, 68-39. 
Coach Petro and Assistant Coach 
[continued on page 7] 








