
~~~~ ---~---~----~-----------------------­
server 
an independent. ~tud~~~ .ne~spaper serving
Vol. XII, No.110 
HPC makes definite carnival plans 
by Bob V arettoni Senior Staff Reporter 
The Hall Presidents Council (HPC) began making definite plans for a carnival during AnTostal at its meeting last night in Morrissey Hall. 
The carnival, contracted from the McDermott Amusement Co., ~ill be held Wednesday through Sun­day, April 16-20, in the Stepan Center parking lot. 
"We plan to bring in eight to ten professionally run rides, exactly which ones will be determined in a week or two," said AnTostal Chairman John Rooney. "We are also planning two professionally run games, maybe an arcade trailor with pinball machines and possibly a water pistol-balloon game." 
Rooney announced that one of the events during AnTostal week will be a "tuck-in service," coordi­nated by Mary Thornburgh. He said students will be able to sign up themselves or their friends to be tucked into bed by a member of the opposite sex. 
For the carnival, ND/SMC dorms will sponsor game booths provided by the McDermott Co. The hall presidents and AnTostal chairmen chose booths for their dorms at last night's meeting. 
Morrissey-Badin chose the bas­ketball shooting booth; Grace­Lyons, the "crazy-ball" toss; Alumni-Walsh, the "birthday game" where bets are placed on the toss of a 14-sided block; Keenan-Farley, the coin toss for stuffed animals; and Fisher-Lewis, the "cat game," a baseball throw game. 
Howard-Holy Cross chose the "coke bottle" ring toss booth; Cavanaugh-LeMans, the softball into a bushel basket game; Dillon­Regina, the "name game," a ball toss onto a center table; Flanner­McCandless, the "ping pong 
Castellini wins 
Underclassmen elections undecided 
Yesterday's elections resulted in one definite victory. Two run-off elections will cause the above scene to be repeated Thursday night [photo by Bill Riefsteck] · 
by Mark Perry 
Staff Reporter 

In one of the closest class 
·elections in Notre Dame history, the ticket of Jerry Castellini, presi­dent; Julie Rittenhouse, vice-
president; Barb Langhenry, secre­tary; and Gary Fair, treasurer, defeated the ticket of Terry Frick, 
president; Sue Flanigan, vice­president; Kathie Fitzpatrick. sec­retary; and Marian Brehmer, treasurer by ten votes to win 
yesterday's election for tile officers 
of the class of 1979. 
~ The Castellini ticket received 468 
'!votes, or 50.4 percent of those cast, to edge out the Frick ticket, which pulled in 458 votes, or 49.4 percent. Sixty-five percent of the junior class voted in the election. 
Castellini, an economics major from Cincimiati, Ohio, was celebra­ting his victory and unavailable for comment. 
In the other class elections, the candidates for Thursday's run-off election were decided, as none of the candidates received more than SO percent of the votes, the quota pitch" booth. 
Sorin chose the balloon-dart booth; Pangborn, the baseball­bottle throw; Carroll, the "buckley­buck" game, where baseballs are thrown into barrels; and Stanford­Breen-Phillips, the "hoopla" ring toss booth. ' 
Summer storage 
Bill Roche, Student Union (SU) director, announced plans for a new summer storage system where each hall president will be respon­sible for summer storage within his hall. 
In the past, he noted, SU conducted one campus-wide storage program. SU, however, can no longer find storage people who have the manpower, capacity, or desire to take on such a large project, he added. 
Roche presented an outline to the HPC "based on Holy Cross' and Keenan's successful summer storage programs." The SU's new program will be coordinated by Tom Kozloski. 
Hall presidents will now be expected to estimate the volume of storage from their dorms, reserve a space with a self-lock storage company, and draw up a price list based on the cost of the space and the size of the various articles. 
In other business, Andy McKenna, student body president, gave his first report to the HPC last night. He said that he has set up a committee to report on "the problems of enforcing the Univer­sity's new fire regulations." 
McKenna also asked the HPC to appoint dorm representatives for the new Coundl for Communication. He described the Council as "a group that will give the student body president advice and maybe initiate new proposals." 
Chris Edelen, Pangborn president, reported that a proposal was presented to the Faculty Senate, "asking the University to supplement lunch meals so that faculty members will be able to eat in the dining halls." 
Before break the Senate unani­mously accepted the proposal, he said, in an effort to improve student-faculty relations, "They accepted the proposal, but up to that point we don't know where we stand next," he added. 
Fire regulation petition 
.Mike Gilroy, a sophomore from Dillon, announced that he has started a petition "to voice our discontent· with the University's suggested action concerning lofts 
and room construction . -We consider the proposed action too 
severe." 
last night's crowded HPC meeting was attended by AnTostal hall and carnival chairmen as well as 
outgoing and incoming hall presidents. [photo by Bill Riefsteck] 
Gilroy said that the administra­tion, which will prohibit loft con­struction and room panelling in the fall, is "overreacting to the Morris­sey fire." 
The petition has been signed by 350 students to date, he noted. He added that he will coordinate his further efforts with McKenna's committee. 
Howard Hall was the winner of the February Rockne Memorial Trophy, HPC Secretary Kristin Quann announced. Breen-Phillips and Walsh halls were runners-up. 
The newly elected hall presi­dents, introduced at last night's meeting, are: Jack Prendergast, Alumni; Ellen Dorney, Badin; Sandy Brandt, Breen-Phillips; Ed 
necessary to wtn the election. 
For the class of 1980, the ticket of Tom McGrath, president; Joan Jaco~sen, vice-president; Cindy Jenmngs, secretary; and Tom ~aurath, treasurer, will oppose the ticket of Dan McCurrie, president; 
Erin Boyle, vice-president; Pat Bryski, secretar¥; and Bill Wetter-
er, treasurer. Seventy-seven per­cent of the sophomore class voted in this election. 
In the preliminary election for the officers of the class of 1981, the ticket of Jim Veraldi, president; Maureen McKenna, .vice­
president; Debbie Smith, secre­tary; and Aaron Bell, treasurer, will run against the ticket of Rosemary Abowd, president; Mike Ward, vice-president; Cathy Dono­van, secretary; and John Solari, 
treasurer. Sixty-nine percent of the freshman class participated in this election. 
The run-offs for the classes of 1980 and 1981 will be held this Thursday in all the residents halls 
and in the Huddle for off-campus students. Voting will be from 11:30 
a.m. to 1 p.m. and from 5 p.m. to 6:30p.m. 
Durbin, Carroll; Dennis Dunleav Cavanaugh; Marty Paulson Dilloi Michelle Kelly, Farley. ' 
Also Mike Coveny; Fisher; Tor Paese, Planner; Jim O'Han: Grace; Dan Darfler, Holy Cros~ Mike Kelly, Howard; Ken Dola1:1 Keenan; Carrie Seringer, Lewis Leta Romeo, Lyons; Ken Kadled Morrissey; Jose Marrero, PanEl born; Bill Vita, St. Edwards; A Mesa, Sorin; Ed Andrle, Stanford Wendy Fencl, Walsh; and Bernar• Striegel, Zahm. 
The next regular business meet ing for the HPC will be April 18. By that time a new chairmar secretary, and executive coordin2 tor will have been selected. 
Mine workers ratify contract 
W ASHINGTON[AP]-Striking min, construction workers ratified a ne' contract yesterday allld union offi cials said most would return t their jobs Wednesday, ending , 120 day walk-out. 
Sam Church, vice president C! the United Mine Workers, said tha with 35 out of 51 construction local reporting, the vote was 2,306, or 6 · percent, for ratification and 1,27f. , or 36 percent, against the propose· accord. 
"The contract will be ratified' when all the votes are in, said on· union official. 
Church said the union planned t send out telegra.ms to the 10,00 strikers, telling them ''that it' clear for them to go back" to wor on Wednesday. "I think th biggest part will go back." 
"It's great to get all our peopl back to work. They've bee through a lot," the union leade added. 
Some 160,000 UMW coal miner ended a 111-day strike on March 2 after ratifying a new contract c their own, However, an estimate 18,000 miners stayed off the jo last week because of picketing b construction workers, who sti were without a new accord. 

I 
r 
I 
! 
t 
2 the observer 
,...News Briefs 
-' ­


Anderson loses court case; charges against Nixon dropped 
But, the judge decided, "An At that time, the administr orderly trial, fair to both sides, tion's public stance in the dispu cannot proceed to a just result was one of neutrality. unless plaintiff reveals the names In addition to Nixon, the S\ of all his relevant sources." He named former Secretary of Sta said Anderson "alone is responsi­Henry Kissinger, former CIA dire ble for the present impasse." tor Richard Helms, former Att(J
Anderson was not immediately ney General John Mitchell, form available for comment. White House chief of staff H.l Haldeman, former domestic cou
Anderson had charged that the: 
selor John Ehrlichman and
Nixon administration harssed him 
others.

for publishing, among other things, 
Gesell had warned Anderson 
a story in December 1971, saying 
January that his refusal to name h
the administration privately sup· 
sources for some of the stori• 
a ported Pakistan in a dispute with 
would jeopardize his case. B1India. 
Anderson argued that confidentia ity of sources was essential to 
newsman and that was what tt case was all about.
Carter calls Wayne's son 
'national asset' 
ing to have a routine convales­cence," he said. 
Doctors removed a tube from Wayne's windpipe that had been inserted to help him breathe while he was under anesthesia during the three-hour operation. 
The actor was still in intensive care yesterday, and Bander said it would be several days before Wayne was moved back to him $200-a-day room in the hospital's exclusive Phillips House wing. 
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
9-midnight 


NDJazzBand 
N .==;•:,';:··,;
:::: 

~ « 

ND Jazz Combo 

preview conrert 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Monday 8: pm 
/ L---------~--------------------------------.. 

Tlcleers now on sale at Student Union Ticket Office and ACC Box Office 
----------~­
Wednesday, April 5, 1978 



_____, 
Weather Mostly sunny and pleasant Wednesday with highs in the upper 50s. Increasing cloudiness and mild Wednesday night with a 30 percent chance for showers late. Low around 50. Warm Thursday with showers and thunderstorms likely. Highs in the low 70s. ,_On Campus Today__"''J 3:25pm seminar, "interfacial effects in the recovery of residual oil," prof. john slattery, northwestern univ., 269 chem. engr. bldg. sponsored by chem. dept. 3:30pm seminar "investigation of turbulent well plumes," prof. g.:n. faeth, pa state univ., 303 engr. bldg., sponsored by aerospace and mech. engr. 3:30pm presentation, "women in public relations," 147 madaleva hall. 4:30pm lecture, "walden and the metaphor of innocence," prof. ernest sandeen, mem. lib. lounge., sponsored by english dept. colloquium, "the creation of particles by strong4:30pm gravitational fields," prof. leonard pa~ker, u. of wise. 118 nieuwland, sponsored by phys1cs dept. 4:30pm forum, "chronic brain disorders, excess disabilities and aging," dr. robert I. kahn, u. of chicago, haggar hall aud., sponsored by dept. of physics. 5:15 pm mass, fr. jerome wilson, celebrant, walsh chapel. meeting, sailing cl~b, 204 engr. bldg.6:30pm 6:30, 8:45, film, "slap shot," knights of columbus bldg., $1, 11 pm members free. film, "leopard," engr. aud., sponsored by dept. of7, 9 pm modern languages. 7:30pm american cultural scene, "american diplomatic codes and ciphers: masked dispatches 1755-1938," ralph weber, marquette univ., carroll hall, smc. 7:30, film, "lost horizon," lyons hall chapel, $1.10:30 pm lecture, "past, present and future," betty freidan, 8 pm o'laughlin aud., sponsored by wow. call 284-4176 for tickets. 8 pm lecture, "achievement of origin," prof. torkin christiansen, univ. of copenhagen, lib. aud., sponsored by theo. dept. 8pm lecture, "varieties of justice," kurt baier, galvin aud. sponsored by philosophy dept. films, vonnegut's "next door," braverman's8 pm "cream of beatles," and "clever village," and other short films, sponsored by nd film society, rm 232 moreau hall, smc. free. nazz, jazz in the nazz, collegiate jazz festival preview9-midnight with the notre dame jazz band and the notre dame jazz combo. basement of Iafortune ..  Washington [AP] • A damage suit asking more than $20 million from Richard Nixon and former top officials of his administration was dismissed yesterday because the plaintiff, columnist Jack Anderson, refused to reveal some of his sources. "There is substantial indica­tion," said U.S. District Judge Gerhard A. Gesell said, "that plaintiff can prove acts of official harassment and efforts at high levels of the Nixon administration to interfere with his work as newspaperman.'' to praise BOSTON [AP]-President Carter called one of John Wayne's sons on yesterday to praise the 70-year-old actor as "a great national asset" and said he was praying for Wayne's recovery from heart sur gery, a hospital spokesman said. Wayne wasJlperated on Mo~day to replace a faulty heart valve. Michael said he went to his father's room after the call. "I told my father, and he smiled...," Michael said. "He mouthed, 'Great."' Michael said Carter "was very comforting and seemed very con­cerned about my father's health." Martin Bander, a spokesman for Massachusetts General Hospital, quoted the president as saying, "John Wayne is a great national asset. If there's anything I can do for him, please let me know. He surprises all of us with his ability to recover. Tell him he is in my tl1oughts and prayers.'' Doctors said they told Wayne he has a 90 percent chance of surviv­ing the operationand resuming his career as the brawling good guy of action movies. Bander said Wayne was in good spirits yesterday. "He is continu-Heslin to speak at Saint Mary's Mary Heslin, Commissioner of Consumer affairs for the State of Connecticut, will speak tomorrow at 8 p.m. in Saint Mary's Carroll Hall. Heslin, a member of the National Product Safety Council, is an adjunct professor in the school of f business administration of Central Connecticut College.  
Observer Editorial Board  
Tony Pace Editor-in-Chief  The Observer 11 published Mon­ 
Steve Odland Managing Editor John Calcutt Executive Editor Barb Langhenry Executive Editor  dey through Frlcley except during eum end vaatlon periods. Tile Obsetver Ia published by the students of Notre Deme end S.lnt  
Rosemary Mills Editorial Editor Phii'Cackley Copy Editor  Mery'a College. SubacrlptiOna mey be purdleaecl tor no per yeer (SlO per semester) from The  
jean Powley St. Mary's Editor Ann Cales News Editor Mike Lewis News·Editor  Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Deme, Indiana 46554. Second cleu postage peld, Notre Deme. lndlene, 44556.  
Diane Wilson News Editor Ray O'Brien Sports Editor Bryan Crulev Features Editor  . The Observer 11 e member of the A uocletecl Preas. A II repro-. ductlon rights •re reaervttd.  
*The Observer Night Editor: Rosemary Mills Asst. Night editor: Tom Beh­ney layout Staff: Kathy Downs, Mike Jackson and a special guest appearance by Tony Pace (oh my Cod!) Sports Layout: Ray O'Brien, Lou Serverino Typists: Rich Clarizio, Beth 1 Rizzo, Mark Rust and of' course the always beautiful  Attention Markerlng (lub Members .... Simoo Root --~ John MlynskiVOTE ·~ Karm Brodoick  
Lisa DiValerio EMT: me Day Editor: Dathy Connelly Copy Reader: Jerry Perez Ad layout: Mathew Ernest DeSalvo Photographer: Bill Reifsteck  --~ Fran Nemeih  


Wednesday, April 5, 1978 
3 


Nazz announces 
lnterha/1 Music 


McDonagh speakson Christian ethics
Competition 
by John Gruesser agh. "It happens in :and through one's fellow man," he said. "'Myby Mary Beth Moran Fr. Enda McDonagh, a theology neighbor is all mankind' can now 
Staff Reporter professor from St. Patrick's College be rewritten 'My liberator is all in Ireland. lectured on "Social mankind.' " 
The Student Union Social Com­Ethics and Christian Freedom" "The manner of liberation," he nission, in cooperation with Nazz before an audience of SO profes­concluded, "can be traced through)irector Enrique Lulli. announced 
sors. priests. and nuns last night in social relationships of mankind as he First Annual Nazz lnterhall Haggar Hall. expressed through attitude. action, 
~usic Competition, to be held 
The larger part of his lecture was and structure." :riday, April 14. and Saturday. taken up in discussion and debate The task of social ethics. he said. 
\pril 22 in the basement of La with members of the audience. is to discover "the charter of 
~-ortune. 
Describing ethics as ''both per­attitude, action, and structure According to Lulli. the competi­
sonal and social at all times.'' whereby men of Chl'ist set one McDonagh defined morally good another free."
ion is designed to promote hall 
mity and campus interest in the activity as "that which promotes Last night's lecture was 'lazz. He hopes the music competi­the good of the individual person sponsored by the Notre Dame 
and the community as a whole.'' Theology Department. McDonaghion will be similiar to those that "The general direction of social is the author of The Gift and the !re held on the beach in his native ethics is deeper differentiation of Call. a book used in a graduateima, Peru. The Student Union person together with fuller devel­theology course ot Notre Dame. 
'ocial Commission is offerin opment or higher unity of society.'' McDonagh has been a professorwards of $50, $35, and three 
he said. of moral theology at the college in wards of $20 for the best perfor­
,:;t!· 

McDonagh said that Christian Maynooth, Ireland sin•ce 1960. and lances. 
freedom was embodied in the Dean of Facultv there since 1963. Both Lulli and the Social Com­person and activity of Jesus Christ. At 9:30 this morning McDonagh ission are trying to provide a God is the source of freedom from was scheduled to give another 
iable alternative to off-campus sin and death. he explained. lecture, "Prayer and Human Christian freedom has a social Fredom,'' in the Rare book room of
ntertainment. Jim Dorgan from dimension. according to MeDon-the Memorial Library.
VSND is to be master of ceremo­ics for the evening, and the )rnpetition promises to be a ariety ofmusical talent. 
• 

Any group or hall interested in ntering an act in the competition JUSt notify their hall president and 
• 

hen call either Enrique Lulli at 479, George Wilmes at 8267 01 
The Rev. Enda McDanagh, from St. Patrick's College, Maynooth,.. • ike Franken at 1501 by Sunday. 
Ireland, lectured to a small crowd yesterday in Haggar Hall • • Auditorium. 

AtSMC 
•

Teams prepare for program •e Specie;/ 10% Discount •e : On All Merchandise To Notre O.ame :
volunteers to play the role of "It'll be cake," McCahey insis-Molly Woulfe 'Simon' for the game of 'Simon ted. Senior Staff Reporter Says.' The leaders will be respon-"Then we'll be the frosting," • & Saint Mary's Student£. e sible for dreaming up various Crowe replied. Representatives from Saint stunts for participants to perform. "Naw. we've got the home 
ary's athletic teams and the Becker and Valentino accepted the advantage.'' Valentino pointed out. 
otre Dame football and fencing job. "We're gonna beat you." ams met last night in the Angela "Can they be obscene?" Becker "You're here to have a goodthletic Facility (AAF) to trade queried. time." Laverty told the group.uips and dares concerning SMC's "Remember. we're going to "Entertain yourself and those who pcoming "Anything Goes" pro­have small children here." Laverty come." ram. to be held this Friday· at 8 warned. Randy Haefner. Irish basketball .m. in the AAF. Both teams exhibited confidence forward. and Sr. Karol Jackowski, 
At this time. members of the ND that they would triumph over their Director of LeMans Hall. will am consist of seniors Steve opponents. referee all activities. rsini. Doug Becker. and Steve "Sure we'll beat 'em.'' Crowe "All SMC/ND students are invi­chmitz, Irish fullback. linebacker. declared. ted to "Anything Goes.'' which is nd halfback respectively. and ND "We're looking for good stiff spOnsoted by SMC's Women's ncers Bill Kica and Mike Mc-competition." Kica offered gal-Opportunity Week. Admission is ahey. lantly.
Senior Barbara Timm. juniors 
argaret "Mugs" Daquila and -~······························ eborah Valentino. sophomore ancy Nowal. and freshmen Ellen 

: ' Cleats ' : 
rowe, Roberta DePiero. and Sue 
icholas make up the SMC squad. Mary Laverty. SMC Director of tudent Activities, carefully out­: IS : 
ned the rules to the competitors. 'I'll leave cheating up to your onsciences." Laverty stated. 

: Here : 
'Just keep your clothes on andno • • 
o foul language." Members of both the teams were : MfeaT your stickets : 
aken aback at some of the stunts expected perform,
hey are to ~······························· 
xpecially a race where players ave to walk with three stacked ups and saucers to a marker. pick 
~p a basketball. dribble it back to che starting point and shoot for a ~asket--while holding the dishes. ' "That's impossible," Becker ex­
flaimed. ' "Sounds like a challenge," De­Piero remarked. 
"Has anyone tried these things t to see if they're possible?" hmitz asked incredulously.
F
More comments were raised ~bout the obstacle course. Team fr!embers are required to powder ~nd dress a doll, jump rope 20 time, blow a bubble, jump over a 
f
whorse, drink three glasses of ater, and use a skateboard. "Can we substitute beer for the ater?" Kica asked. "Shots?" Valentino suggested. !Orsini asked if teams were to be 
e~ Laverty replied in the 
~
egative, adding that both teams ere free to wear 'unusual' cos­umes. Kica raised an eyebrow at 
cCahey. 
Laverty then asked for two 





lettermen
.

mconcert ­
\. 
~ to leuemm oontB1 NOW AVAILABlE to notre dame and saint mary's sbxJens 
DATE: April 20, '78 TIME: 7:15pm PlACE: A.C.C. TICKET PRICE: $2.50 lower a-ena, $1.50 bleachers 
ticke1s may be purchased at the St. Mary's brand\ offla! (basement of L.eMans Hall) or at the main offia! of the Nofre Darre Caf'11lUS (Main­
~· ienance Garage). ~by notre dame <Tedit unDt 
~ope 
J.S for Ladies only (?) 
Dress up Ladies and come on down­

.Loves the Ladies... 


. . ''. • 
Wednesday, April 5, 1978

the observer 


Search for missing boy ended in Anderson 
ANDERSON Ind. [AP] -A multi-state search for a 14-year-old o\nderson boy. missing since he left \ motel room in Melbourne, Fla., iast Thursday, ended here yester­Jay when he returned to his 1ome. Anderson Police Sgt. Jerry Nilliams said the boy. Todd Mul­arkey. returned to his home by bus !from Philadelphia, where he eft two men who had driven him here from Florida. 
Williams said Mullarkey was ·n good health and was being 1uestioned by detectives about his iisappearance. 
The boy was last seen Thursday 1ight when he left his father and ;ister to play pinball at a local trcade in Melbourne. The three vere staying at the motel during a tisit to his brother, Scott 20, who 1ttends the Florida Institute at v1elbourne. 
During his disappearance. a ~aller claiming to be Todd Mullar­:.cy twice called the national run­lway hotline center in Chicago aying he was "fine" and first that he would be home Sunday night 
and then Monday night. 
The FBI joined Brevard County, 
Fla. authorities in investi~atin&; 
Mullarkey's disappearance. Wil­
liams said last night that the FIBI 
was no longer involved in the case. 
Williams said Brevard county 
authorities told him the boy had left 
Florida in a van with two men who 
said they were headed for the 
Pennsylvania-New York area. 
Upon arriving in Philadelphia. the men apparently put Mullarke·y on a bus back home. Williams said. 
The circumstances of the youth's disappearance were still a mystery to police last night when the boy and his mother appeared at police headquarters for questioning. 
"We've had him here with his mother for about an hour and a half. questioning him." Williams said. 
Police were trying to piec•e together the story and obtain descriptions of the two men in the van. he said. The boy's father and sister W@fe still in Florida. Wil­liams said. 

Letter attributed to Mora calls for prisoner exchange 
ROME [AP] -Former Premier \ldo Moro, in a letter attributed tro 1im by his terrorist kidnappers, Jeclared yesterday that time was 
. running out and called for an ~xchange of prisoners to win his 'daease as "the only possible Jositive solution." "May God enlighten you. We 10pe that you do quickly what is 1ecessary," concluded the letter to eaders of his Christian Democrat "arty. Copies of Moro's typewritten md signed letter and a three-page nassage from the Red Brigades, taly's most feared terrorist group. vcre made public as Premier Giulio ~ndreotti was telling Parliament 1is government was basically int he 'ark 19 days after the kidnapping ook place. Still, Andreotti said investigators 
•ere following "significant leads." 
Moro's letter was the fourth ·ansmitted by his kidnappers since 1e 61-year-old president of the 
Uhe 
I

1\'\\nJjammer 
IFREE HAIR ANALYSIS 
I  CR.EATIVE HAIR DESIGN  
~.  FOR  THE  SEXES  
'  . RElAXING  
·  ATMOSPHERE  

RK RETAR..CENTER 

1637 LWW 
So. ~end 
232-6622 
~ppt. enly. 
1 
Christian Democrats was snatched March 16 in an ambush in rom~: that killed his five body guards. 
The latest letter said: "I am a political prisoner placed in an untenable situation by your hasty decision to close any discussion relating to other persons impris­oned in a similar way. Time is flying and unfortunately there is too little '' 

Professor of English, Ernest Sandeen, lec­tured yesterday on "Thoreau and the Meta­phor of the Self." Today's topic is "Walden and the Metaphor of Innocence." [photo by Bill Reifsteck] 
Through mail 
•


Caution urged 1n plant buying 
W ASIDNGTON [AP] -Those colorful advertisements may seem to offer a convenient way to add some early springtime to your home, but the Better Business Bureau urges caution when order­ing plants by mail. 
A fancy name on a plant can be merely aimed at causing confusion, and not all plants can grow in all climates and soils . 
The BBB says a good way to recognize false or misleading ad­vertising is to look out for such claims as ''grows 20 feet in one year," "supplies bushels of fruit from summer to fall," "produces 
t night the statue of Fr. Sorin conltrasts sharply with the lights of the orne. Ah, spring ... [photo by Bill Riefsteck] 
• t 
. ! 1979 Sophomore literary Festival 
:' 
'i 
any fresh~~ interest~ ly. 
., 1n app 1ng
,I 
., for chainnan or committee positions on the . 
1979 Sophomore Literary Festival CouncH 
should leave his/her name In the Enalish Office 
(309 O'Sflag) by April 7. 

SPORTS 

Wrestlers shine 
[Continued from PIIP 8] in the Freshman Year of Studies office, and he spends five months of the year working extra hard with the team. Under his tutelage the wrestling program at DuLac has come a long way in three years. His efforts did not go unnoticed. He has been voted the National Catholic Coach of the Year all three years as head man at Notre Dame. • In addition, he was named Midwest Coach of the Year for the first time. Some of the top coaches in the country awarded him this honor . 
thousands of exotic blooms in a few weeks," and "grows five types of fruit, all on one branch." 
Some advertisements claim plants to be naturally insect and disease proof or able to grow in any soil and climate. Don't fall fer these gross exagerations, the BBB says. 
Frequently, BBB says the ads will push one particular plant; often a very common item with a fancy name. For example the common 
silver  maple  may  become  the  
"Silver  Acer"  and  the  thornless  
honey-locust  the  "Flowering  
Umbrella."  

The BBB suggests that if you see an ad for a tree or shrub you're not familiar with, or if the claims seem ! too good to be true, call a reputable I local nursery. I 
Ask if the advertised plant is in \ stock and find out its price. They , may say there is no such plant, or ! your climate isn't right, or it's too difficult for an amateur to grow. 
And if you do decide to order a plant by mail from one of the many reputable firms in the business, ' keep a copy of the advertisement I along with the name and address of the company for future reference. 

Summerpracticumsoffered 
For the third consecutive year, the Indiana University School of Education is offering a number of summer practicums on the Navajo Indian Reservation in Arizona and New Mexico for in-service teach­ers, graduate students, and inter­ested lay people. 
In exchange for volunteering their services, participants will have the opportunity to learn about Navajo culture and test their own cultural adaptation and interper­sonal skills. Teachers especially may benefit on returning by teach­ing about the American Indian from first-hand experience, said James M. Mahan, director of the project. 
Participants will be placed for six 
DOONESBURY 
50 MUCJI FOR. MR.. CAF<JC/i!.'S N0070 THE -n//1?/) IA/()R.JJ)f 
DID YOU KNOW 
HE'S ALREAOY '? 

/.I)()K .4T 71IC CIJRVE ON THIS CHART IA/8 PREPAREIJ! THE !N­C/lJCNCE OF a.IP:TAIL£0 L!BI3R.­TIIiS HAS f)(?()f1P6) a:F S16NIFI­CANTI-Y! ANO GiecK aJT lltESE 8EFO/?.E -ANO-ARCR. PH07()5 OF 
to eight weeks between June 15 and Aug. 15 at various boarding school sites on the Reservation where they will work in educational and/or recreational programs under local direction. 
Individual assignments will be determined as much as possible on each participant's skills and inter­ests. All of the sites are located in very scenic, but isolated regions. Language problems should be minimal as most navajo children and adults have some knowledge of English. 
Persons interested in participa­ting should contact James M. Mahan, Education 216, Indiana University, Bloomington, IN. 47401, telephone 812-337-8570. 
by Garry Trudeau 
Y(){} 8CJTEI( OH, S4Y, 7HifT'S 8ELI&VE IT! 
R/61-{T! 'ttJlJ U/f7H ALL TH/5 
SENT IN YOlJR N/3W INTERE5T NOMINATION IN AFRICA, BENIN FORM Y/3T? FINAllY HAS A I RJ3ALCHANC£! 
'\ 
COMPlETELY
WOW!UJWA 
UN!?E7Dii0-I&D!
01/ffRENCE! 
ANO U/E 60T AFFifA4VfT5, 700! 



. ' 
~-~------~ --~-~-----­






London prof visits ND 
by Kathleen Cannon 
The Notre Dame MBA School is currently playing host to Dr. David Norburn, director of the London Business School's (LBS) Master Programme. His visit is part of an exchange program with LBS to incorporate an international flavor and expertise into Notre Dame's MBA degree. 
Norburn, serving as adjunct professor in the NO-London MBA program, holds a master of science degree in economics from the London School of Economics and a PH.D. in Business Policy from London University. 
The pioneer exchange program also saw ten specially selected Notre Dame MBA students attend London Business School this year. 
The number is expected to increase to approximately 20 students next year. Both Morburn and Dean Leo Ryan of the business department have labeled the program "an overwhelming success.'' 
Speaking before a faculty forum on Monday, Norburn covered a broad range of topics, including the British economy and the various approaches LBS takes in preparing its students for executive positions. 
Consistently referring to his LBS students as "heroes," Norburn emphasized that his philosophy is to "develop deliverers and doers, not just elegant thinkers." At the same time, hesaid he endeavors to maintain a "fun" atmosphere, "without which there is no point to one's efforts." 
Norburn went on to say that 
Former Chicago 7 judge again stirs controversy 
CHICAGO fAP] -Nine years after he was widely criticized during the Chicago 7 trial. 82-year­old Judge Julius Hoffman is again stirring controversy -this time in the trial of Frank Walus. who· could lose his citizenship if it is proven he was a World War II mass murderer. 
At one point. the defense attor­ney accused the judge of falling asleep in court. The judge has threatened the lawyer with con­tempt citations. 
And on Monday -before the defense started its case -Hoffman denied a defense motion for acquit­tal by saying the government's case "is clear and convincing and unequivocal that the defendant did commit war crimes. was a member of the Gestapo... and concealed information when he obtained U.S. citizenship." 
That prompted the Chicago Sun­Times to report in a news story yesterday that "Hoffman all but declared him guilty." 
At another point, Hoffman ex­pressed exasperation with Walus' halting testimony in both Polish and English -prompting Chicago Tribune columnist Jeff Lyon to describe Hoffman as having an "instinct for weakness that is like that of a mosquito seeking warm blood." 
Walus. 55 was born in Germany of Polish parents and is charged with lying about alleged activities 
with the Gestapo when he ob­tained U.S. citizenship in Chicago in 1970. 11 years after moving to 
the United States. 
To prove he lied on naturaliza-·•••••••••••••••++••••++••••••••••• • • • • • • •••• • • •••••.. 
tion forms, the prosecution has f 
tried to establish that W alus was a + Nazi who helped the German+ Army kill Jews during the war. If+ 
found guilty, h~ could be deported.:
Yesterday, JUst before Walus + went back to the witness stand, his + 
attorney, Robert Korenkiewicz, + told a reporter he was ''beginning + to get the feel of what happened + during the Chicago 7 trial. Not a+ 
good feeling." + On Monday. Ko~enkiewicz had t said he had the impression Hof-•• 
fman  had  fallen  asleep.  He  
shouted  to  wake  the  judge  and :  
demanded a recess.  +  

The diminutive. white-haired t Hoffman left the courtroom and + ~orenkiewicz then said: ..~ am • 
tncensed. He takes volumtnous + 
notes when the governm~nt is up +..•••••••••••••..:•••••••••••••••••+++•••••••••••••••j
here, then the son of a-strtke that-then he falls asleep when I get up here." 
But Hoffman's moods change Korenkiewicz said. "Sometimes I feel he's with me. going along with me and it's clear sailing." Such was the case yesterday morning. 
Hoffman  sat  rigidly upright  as  
W alus  denied  he  ever  was  a  
German Gestapo  or SS agent,  or  

that he ever helped the German Army kill Jews in Poland. Walus detailed his story that he was forced from his home in Poland and made to work on farms in Germany from 1940 until1944. 
The defense says the charges are based on mistaken identity 

Carter tentatively vetoes neutron bomb production 
WASHINGTON [AP] -President Carter has tentatively decided against production of the neutron bomb. the controversial nuclear weapon designed to defeat a mas­sive Soviet tank attack on Western Europe. 
Carter was conferring yesterday with Secretary of State Cyrus Vance and West German Foreign Minister Hans-Dietrich Genscher, who arrived earlier in the day to press his government's support for production of neutron weapons. 
"All these questions are subject to consultation within the alli­ance,'' Genscer told reporters after a prior meeting with Vance. 
When asked directly whether Carter had made up his mind Vance said the president "has not decided that question." 
It was understood, however, that Carter's tentative decision was relayed to Bonn late last week through Deputy Secretary of State Warren Christopher. Genscher's visit was hurriedly arranged in a final effort by the West Germans to persuade Carter to modify his decision. 
State Department officials said privately that Carter probably would make a final decision after 
his ·meeting with Genscher but that 
it  would  not  be  announced  for  
several days.  
White  House  spokesman  Ed  

Penney said no final decision had been made as of today. Asked whether a tentative decision had been reached. Penney repeated that no final decision had been made. 
Supporters of the weapon have said they would prefer that Carter defer any decision rather than rule against production. 
The New York Times, quoting unidentified administration officials, reported yesterday that Carter had d~cided against produc­tion of the weapon despite contrary advice from most of his senior foreign policy advisers. 
The newspaper said Carter hoped the Soviet Union would respond by showing restraint in deploying new nuclear weapons. 
The neutron warhead has a relatively small explosive force, confined to a radius of 200 to 33 yards, but yields twice the radia­tion of a regular nuclear weapon. Defense strategists consider it an effective weapon against an invad­ing tank force in a European war "tapping the 'home town' indus­tries provides unlimited resources for my heroes and can be a major contributor in making graduates into professionals." "We quality stamp our heroes," he said, "if we don't, it reflects on the future jobs for the students and prospective applicants." He cited statistics which revealed that approximately four firms are willing to hire each LBS graduate. 
Before returning to London, Norburn and his wife Suzie will be making stops in Chicago, Boston and New York. 

SCHOLASTIC 
+ 
+ + 

JS NQ:Wl .l ·CCEPTJNG APPIJ£1 .l 1 + +
TIQNS FOR 

' n ~ ~ + 
: 

Mannoina Editor News Editor + 
~.,., + 
Producbon Manager Spons Editor + 
Copy E'..l!..--+ Layout Editor fi.IIIUl-+ c~-L..-v..J:..__ Photo Editor t 
rwtlll~ J.:.U.IIUC' B~~_,., MAnRO'ft" •Art Director ·~·'-"""' ~-.,., + + • -+
Deadline for~~ 5prn April}} at Scho);ESi_c o:f:fices. : 
+ 

For InOre inf(»'""'YYa.~ (X)lltact Scholasdc at 7419 or 1rake at 35a)+
~-----~~ ,.J, + 
Student Government
SMC now accei!_ting applications for the followmg positions: 
social commissioner judicial commissioner sports commissioner 

public relations commissio 
r 


Applications available at Student Activities Office Questions: call Gail DaiTagh 4569 

FEATURING IMNY OF THE NA1'10N'S FINEST COUEGE .MZZ GROUPS 
• 

development commissioner

DEADLINE: 

spiritual commissioner
7th April 

election eommissioner
5:00PM 
co-ex commissioner 


JUDGES: HUBERT LAWS LEW TABACKIN LOUIE BELLSON LARRY RIDDLEY JOHN LEWIS 
Dr. David Norburn, di­rector of the london Bois­ness School's Master Pro­gramme. 
FLUTE 
SAX~HONE 
DRUMS 


BASS 
PIANO 

DAN MORGANSTERN  CRrriC  
7=30 FRIDAY NIGHT  $4.50  WEEKEND  PASS  
12=15  SATURDAY  $2.50  STUDENT  $7.50  
6:30 SATURDAY NIGHT  $4.00  NON-STUDENT  $8.50  
j,~qe~l_~j}  ~qejl~qel\  




~illflJQel\~lrtlt!J ®1' ~<!&tEU ~B~:ffi(f 
.. ~­


Wednesday, April 5, 1978
the observer 





Redgrave highlights Oscars 
Hollywood [AP) The movie stars and the hangers-on danced into the wee hours yesterday at the Aca­demy Ball celebrating Oscar's 50th birthday and grumbling about Va­nessa Redgrave's political out­burst. 
While the British star's award for supporting actress in "~ulia" was applauded, part of her accep­tance speech was booed. The jeering began when she referred to some of those who oppose her politics as "Zionist hoodlums." 
"She insulted the Academy we voted for her performance, not her politics." snapped an actress who declined to be identified. 
Most officials declined to enter the controversy. Howard W. Koch, president of the Academy. refused to comment. preferring to cite audience ratings -"the biggest in Academy history." 
An informal poll at the $150-a­plate gala indicated support for writer Paddy Chayefsky's on­camera riposte to Miss Redgrave: 
·'I'm sick and tired of people exploiting the occasion of the Academy Awards applause for the rropagation of their own personal 
On groceries 
Farm aid may rai~;e prices 
WASHINGTON (AP > Congres­sional conferees reconciled their differences yesterday on emer­gency farm aid, and the admini­stration said the resulting legisla­tion could add 2 or 3 cents to every dollar now spent on groceries. 
An administration spokesman indicated President Carter would veto the Republican engineered 
sophomores 
WE OFFER 



SIIIEI 

1111 I BETTER LIFE 
AFTER 
COLLEIE 
Army ROTC offers you a no-obligation. six-week summer leadership pro­gram at Fort Knox. Ky. 
You'll earn about $450 and an opportunity to enter advanced ROTC next fall. That means extra income [$2,500 during your last two years of college) and leads to your commission as an Army officer. 
Army ROTC also offers you new career opportuni­ties after college -part­time as a leader in Re­serve while employed in the civilian community or full-time on active duty. 
For details and an inter­view appointment. contact: 
Major John J. Macneil Room 236 In the ROTC Building 
or cafl 6264 --6265 --7332 
TIIIIIYIIR 
TIO·YUIPIInll
....




-Ill 
political propaganda applause. would like to suggest to Miss Redgrave that her winning an Academy award is not a pivotal moment in history -does not require a proclamation. A simple 'thank you' would have sufficed." The New York Post on Tuesday quoted Chayefsky as saying: "She tried to speak to me afterward and I cut her dead. I wanted to say more to the worldwide audience. but the hell with it, why make her the martyr she wants to be?" 
Expectably for a golden anniver­sary. the Oscarcast was long -just under three hours. But the film crowd seemed to think that it was 
one of the best. The glamorous look was back, along with Holly­wood's good ole-boy, Bob Hope as emcee. Judging from the ratings. the home audience liked the show. 
ABC. which telecast the show nationwide, said Tuesday that pre­liminary research from New York, Chicago and Los Angeles indicated that about 70 million people watched the show -the largest audience in the history of the Oscar programs. The show ended shortly before I a.m. EST. 
compromise. Congress has never overridden a farm bill veto. 
Agriculture Secretary Bob Berg­land says urbun opposition in the House could kill the bill next week. The Senate could vote on the legislation by Friday. 
The compromise version allows farmers who grow wheat, feed-grains and cotton to secure a federally guaranteed price on their 1978 crops in return for taking one acre out of production for every two 
a1cr_e_s_p_l_a_n.te·d~·~--------·-·a_n_y_,~_o_r_m_o_f_D.;._o_l_e_·s_d_i_a_l--a--p·a·r-it_y;._.·_·....black damp, .. an atmosphere lack­ing oxygen, a mine spokesman 
that  doesn't  have  any  oxygen.  
escaped," he said.  
Hugh Flaherty  of  the  Pittston  

Tues. & Wed. Thurs. & Fri.  8 :30;6 :30 . 8 :30-8:30  272-0312 54533 Terrace Lane  
Sat.  8:30-5:30  
*  


We offer the finest in men's lhair cutting
r,,,,,,,,"',,,,,,TIIE',,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,I Only 5 minutes \~\\ KNfiGHTS ~\\\ 
from campus ~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;.::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::f::: 277-1691 
* BURT LANCACTER
* J l1
1

* 

$ CLAUDIA CARDINALE 
~ ' The leo~~~~ vRUmi 
: Woo~ Apll 5 7 ·-9 ~· AOO. : ! ~ by Maiem and (h;taf ~ Dept $1.00 : 
* *

·-=----------------------------·-,THE NEW SF,ECIALS : I 
I presented ~, the I I 
a a LIBRARtY a a iI WEN (daze)14oz llraft special! 


50*: 
LARGEST DRAFlr-IN TOWN I 7 ..... midJrtite i THURSDAY 7 & i' special 501 
I I I I 

------------------·-----------,..1I 

The Redgrave imboglio almost ove-rshadowed the other awards. but not quite. 
While Woody Allen was tooting a clarinet in a Manhattan pub, he won Oscars for writing and direct­ing "Annie Hall" -but not for his starring role. Richard Dreyfuss, who portrayed an actor on the rise in "The Goodbye Girl." was chosen best actor instead of Allen. 
Diane Keaton was best actress for playing an aspiring actress in "Annie Hall," and Allen's comedy was declared best picture of 1977. Jason Robards. a s Dashiell Ham­mett in "Julia," won his second straight supporting-actor Oscar. 
Miss Redgrave's award was the first of the Monday night telecast. She pushed the awards off to a controversial start by congratulat­ing the voters for "refusing to be intimidated by the actions of a small bunch of Zionist hoodlums." 
She referred to protests of the Jewish Defense League over her pro-Palestinian film documentary which features an interview with Palestine Liberation Organization chief Yasser Arafat. 
The guaranteed price would give farm~~rs 100 percent of parity ­which means farmers would have the same favorable balance be­tween costs and returns that grow­ers had in 1910-14. 
Sen. Bob Dole, R-Kan., intra­duced the compromise concept of linking parity to the amount of acreage taken out of production. 
Bergland told a reporter that Carter is adamantly opposed to 

Kevin Packer of the Juniper Press Publicity Department puts ~is best foot forward yesterday afternoon at the autograph party m the Lafortune Ballroom. Authors Ken MacAfee, George Berry, and john Gelson were on hand to sign copies of their newly published book, Cleats. 
The undergraduate press pl<~ns to distribute Cleats stickers 
tonight at the dining halls. (pnoto by Bill Riefsteck] 
Five miners killed,· 'black damp' blamed 
DUTY Va.[AP]-Five men were killed yesterday-one a federal mine safety inspector-after miners exca­vating a shaft broke into an old mine and were asphyxiated by 
said. 
''They apparently broke a small hole into an old mining area and what miners call 'black damp,' air 
Co., which owns Clinchfield Coal Co., said five miners were 280 feet into the new Clinchfield mine when they hit the old shaft. 
One of the miners managed to reach the mine entrance, where he found three men: a miner, a district .If> official of the federal Mine En­forcement and Safety Administra­lit tion and a man identified only as an Jitemployee of a mining service 
lltc~o~m~p~a=n~y~·~F~l=ah~e=r~ty~s~a~id~·~~------~sp~o=k=e~s~w.~o~n~la=n~sa=i=d~·---------­
i . ro~.t~~Jrr 
Flaherty reported that the MESA inspector and the other men went into the mine to try to help the four miners. He said two of the first group of miners reached safety but two died, along with the three men who tried to save them. 
Clinchfield spokeswoman Susan Conte, who was at the scene, identified four of the dead men as Richard Charson, 29, of Abingdon; William Danis Ison, 45, Ison, Ky.; Marion Johnson, 34, Abingdon; and William Arden, 25, Abingdon. 
The name of the fifth victim was withheld pending notification of relatives. 
Their deaths came just eight days after workers returned to the mine following settlement of the United Mine Workers strike . 
Two of the three miners who 

reached safety were hospitalizedfor observation. the Clinchfield 
~--------~ ------­
Wedr~esday, April 5, 1978 
the c1bserver 7 
I I 




Campus Briefs 
Codes and Ciphers, 1775-1938" influenced by Spanish sculptor the Indiana State Commission on'Wo•nen in PR-, today at 7:30 p.m. in Carroll Hall. Julio Gonzales. During the 1960's Lawrence to hold the Aging and Aged. The presentation is the tenth one in he received numerous awards, This year's Area Plan encompas­
topic discussed this semester's The American including a Guggenheim Fellow­harpsichord ses various social services for all Scene: A Cultural Series. It is open ship and a Tamarind Arts Scholar­elderly persons and the Nutrition to the public. ship. He has served on the recital at SMC Program for people aged 60 and
at SMC forum Editor of As Others See Us and National Council of the Arts and over.
Patterned after an 18th-century
co-editor of Voices of Revolution, has held several visiting professor­
Area public relations experts will Weber is also author of the book ships. instrument, the harpsichord to be Women's v-ball
used by Arthur Lawrence in hisparticipate in a "Women in Public entitled Notre Dame's John Zahm. The talk is sponsored by the recital at Saint Mary's College
Relations" forum today at 3:30 In the early 1960's Weber assumed gallery and the art department and to ha"e' meeting
Thursday is a replica of a Frenchp.m. in Room 147 of Saint Mary's 
the duties of Registrar and dean of is open to the public without model built for him by the notedl There will be an organizationalMadaleva Hall. The panel will admissions at Marquette, while charge. 
American builder, William Dowd of meeting tomorrow at 7 p.m. in theinclude public relations profession­still retaining faculty status. 
Boston.Lawerenceassociate profes­Football Auditorium of the ACC forals from the University of Notre sor of music at Saint Mary's, will all girls interested in participating
Dame, the Bendix Corporation, Janet Diederichs & Associates, Inc. Shelter seeks present his recital in the Little in the Wome:11's Volleyball Club.
Career women Theatre at 8:00 p.m. 
of Chicago, Century Center, the American National Bank and Trust volunteers to discuss The program consists of music Canc~er Society
from the High Baroque, the periodCompany and the South Bend 
The Women's Shelter Advisory in which the harpsichord occupied 
Tribune. 
Committee of the YMCA is seeking job opportunities the same place of prominence that seeks volunteers 
a woman volunteer to spend every the piano does today. 
Throughout the week, the Ameri­

Ripple speaks other weekend at a residential Four women pursuing divergent 
emergency care facility. Room and careers comprise a panel which will can Cari~r Society will be signing in Howard Hall board will be provided. Contact discuss "Facts of Career Life" Area Plan up student volunteers in the dining Rosemarie at 233-9491 Monday tomorrow at 3 p.m. in LeMans' halls to participate in an April 23 collection drive. Participants will
Professor Ken Ripple of the through Thursday from 9:30 a.m. Stapleton Lounge. Janie Becker, for aging be asked to canvass the South Bend 
lawyer; Pat Lindeman, sales repre­
Notre Dame Law School wiii speak to 2:30p.m. 
area collecting contributions. The 

on "Life at the Supreme Court" sentative ; Elaine Schenck, educa­to be discussedtor; and Barb Slee, physician will Cancer Sockty will also be signingThursday at 7 p.m. in Howard Hall. 
discuss the advantages and disad­The Area Agency on Aging, up students next week in the vantages of being a woman in their REAL Services, announced today dorms. Those interested should
Hunt to present 
respective professions. that its annual public hearing on....-c_a_ll_C_h_n_·s_R_a__m_·e_ri_a_t_1_4_1_1_.----, the Area Plan will take place in the 
SUMMER STUDY IN NEW

art slide lecture Friedan to speak auditorium of the Center for Con­tinuing Education. Any interested 
YORK CllY: Colurrbia Uni­


Weber to deliver 
Richard Hunt, renowned Ameri­at Saint Mary's persons may attend the hearing, 
versi1y Offers ·~r 350 under­can sculptor in metal, will present a scheduled for Thursday at 2:00 
grCKtua1e, 9rCK!ua1e and prO­

speech on codes Betty Friedan, founder of the p.m.
slide lecture on his work tomorrow 
fessional s.chool courses. 

at 8 p.m. in the University of Notre National Organization for Women, The purpose of the hearing is to 
Wri1e for bulletin:Sumrrer

Dame Art Gallery. wiii speak in O'Laughlin Audi­give the public an opportunity to Ralph Weber, professor of his­torium at Saint Mary's tonight at 8 
Sessions, Colurrbia Universi

Hunt studied at the Art Institute comment on the plan and/or make 
tory at Marquette University, wiii 
102c Low Ubrary, N.Y, N.Y.

of Chicago from 1953 to 1957 before p.m. Friedan is the author of The suggestions for changes, additions 
deliver a talk entitled "Masqued continuing his studies in Europe. Feminlne Mystique and It Changed or deletions to be considered by theI 10027 
Dispatches: American Diplomatic Much of his early work was My Life. Area Agency Advisory Council and'·-----·---------t 
To the Bull Moose Committee Ill, Yes it was a success! I would like to 
NOTICES Juniors: 
Don't forget 'lo dance the night away •thank the chairman, Chris and his even on Sunday tickets on sale untilcommittee (my fellow staff members)

Bus service to Chicago every Friday. March 5th . $13 per couple. Any

CLASSJF'IED ADS 
Tom, Pat, Jim, Chip, Dan and Norb for all
Buses leaving the circle at 6:05. For questions call 4719. tickets and info call Shep 8330. 
their cooperation and help. It was a pleasure working with you guys and 
Jimmy Rica,

being apart of the committee. Chris, you
Will do typing. Neat, accurate. Call: I miss you! All my love, 
287-5162. may not be the most demanding chair­
Trish

PERSONALS man, but your concern and enthusiasmFOR RENT 
made it easy for us to work for you and a
Dissertations, manuscripts typed ....etc. Usa Hon, IBM selectric II. Linda's Letters. I'II love you forever and ever.
pleasure to help organize the party. If · Yea Sheila! Ra Sheila ! Sheila Is great! Notre Dame has more Individuals like
287-4971. Two rooms for rent, summer school. $40 Your Taddy Bear
(Excuse me, this personal seems to have Chris and his staff, then we will se theper month. 233-1329. 
future social events and another Bull
TYPING DONE gotten out of hand). An Tostal is coming ! All talented
Moose party. Thanks again for every­
IIEASONABLE RATES Fine house in a good neighborhood impersonations (or those who think theyCALL8086 (Portage and Angeles area). Reasonable Any ND-SMC trosh women who desire thing! are) register now for impersonation. Call 
ridiculous and or interesting conversation P.V. K.B. at 4-1-41:in. Rich Little Beware!
rates. For 4-5-or 6students. Contact Joe 
NEED QUAUTY TYPING?? Executary Gatto 234-6688. call "Scoop" at 1605. Inc., Professional Typing Service, IBM Su!T)mer Joru;? 100 positions #$, for Correcting Selectrics. 85 cents per page, Joe Forman .... You are the greatest!! If anyone has information on how Jerry engmeerlng undergrads in Chicago area
One bdrm apt. to sublet for summer. 
minimum. Call 232-Q898 "When you Thanks for the book. Walsh got home Saturday night, please call Jan 1292.
Security, tennis ct., pool, good terms. 
want the best." Tom call him and tell him. 6645
Call 288-7258. #2 Women engineering graduates. Fantastic job opportunities in Chicago
ENVELOPE STUFFING SCHEMES EX· To "Short Person " Jerry would like to apoligize to the world area. Call Jan 1292. POSED:2 page report free. Practics, Here's Hopin' that you'll be in Dublin for his offensive behavior Saturday. 2130 -3a N.W. Fillmore. Corvallis, Or, you're pleasure next year. Sure n' we SHOTS! Happy 21st birthday to a cowboy thats a 
97330 could use a couple o' semesters o' rest. killer! How about 21 Longnecks after theLOST AND FOUND Colonel Ozone Miss Nancy Ryan, champagne. Then we can really put the 
'beware of falling trees. llove you. devil back in 11ell! DISCO LESSONS: Hustle, swing, waltz Your Tennessee Woodcutter Mona
FOUND: to the blond who lost her and more now being taught call Mark WANTED contacts at NCAA finals in St. Louis. I Thompson 272-2976 between 5-6 only! Dear Discolng Lyonettes, Roland,
found them. Call Mike 1595. (especially Dorothy) Thank you all for a I'm sure....that's John Lennon .... New 
Teresita; super time -itwas great -needed a little York...the ocean.... a cheesae omelette... Need riders to Columbus 0. Leaving LOST: *One Texas Instruments Calcula­Your hair is red more disco inferno, but besides that the dump.... "Maybe I should read DH 
tor in or near LaFortune on the Wed. your eyes are blue great!
Friday April 7. Call1269. Lawrence another time" ..... why isn't
before break. Reward offered. Call This Is something soecial Love, Tom O.K. 
your picture In the dogbook? "Horny

233-7213.
Two need ride to Chicago. Leaving That Is just for you f! Fish".... adirt ball in overalls.....remeber Thursday afternoon 4-6. Call Mike 1811 Guess who Jim Shippee you are not cute an I owe ya' $4.25. 
or at 1n6. FOUND: Set of 2 keys found before Happy birthday to a great person -go Mikadobreak. Call Observer office to identify. Mary Beth Budd was voted "Most Likely get 'em this weekend! GAIN JOB EXPERIENCE IN SALES to be Embarassed" last Saturday night at Dear Wyckoff cutest,LOST: One grey suit pack containing suit, the Bull Moose party. Congrats M.B.!! Tom Dave C,
MANAGEMENTII Oh how very lucky am I to have such a 
WSND has positions open for '78·79. pair of slacks, pair of dress shoes, and The discoing Lyonettes, the swim team wonderful guy. Love, Interviews are April 6 and 7. Call 7342 seven silk shirts. Left in C-1 parking lot Chris B .... and your various and sundry fans Rocky River Cutest for appointment. 20 percent commission on Tuesday afternoon. Please call John I don't call guys.aat 3807. M Sexy legs Fitzpatrick, 1FURNISHED APT: All private , three 
We can't wait until the formal --Don't rms up for married grad student.. ..all Need riders to Cleveland (area) on April 5 LOST: Class ring between guard house Happy Birthday to Mr. Mach, Tony wear pants. Love, utilities, near memorial hosp. No rent for or 6and back to S.B. on Sunday, April 9. and Alumni before break. Reward. Call Mockus! The tender Twosome helping two people in wheelchairs. Call 4-1-4001. 232-9128.
Dave 1582. Alan 
Free to good home•.••2 puppies [collie Needed ....2 girls for summer housemate LOST: Orange ski gloves in green section Overeaters anonymous meeting is now on and boxer mix]. Call272-2520 attar 3 pm. We are proud to announce the resump­Call 4-1-4034. at Bengal Bouts. Call Dave 1582. campus! Call 289-6021 for time and tion. of ou! weekly Wednesday night
place. Haircuts, trims, styles, cheap! SMC 4530 part1es. S1x houses north of Nickles. LOST: Texas Instruments calculator Betsy. 
Dean Roemer still has 46 days before he

(SR-51-11) from Hayes Healy. Phone John Fulcher­
may enetr our house. Do Drop Inn. 

FOR SALE 3488. Cioudy afternoons at the dunes, CFJ is coming. Be There!! blizzards In Akron, and losing 12-1 in LOST: Tl SR50 calculator lost week backgammon to a girl! What will happen New Orleans students attempting to get a 
~··-..... 

Used golf balls like new, $20 per 100 and before break. Please call 7801 if found. now that you are 21 ?? Happy 21st truck for students gear at the end of the I ' other prices. Call 272-0783. birthday. Love, · semester. For infomation call Jim 8731. : •.::.1) LOST: taken or borrowed from ACC: one Jean 
' 
' 

ARIA FIVE STRING BANJO ....EXCEL­blue faced seiko watch. Great sentimen­Free John Kennedy fund Is now under­LENT CONDITION. CALL JOHN AT tal value, so great rewrd is offered. Call ATTENTION:[ ND-SMC girls sign up for way. Set John kjennedy tree from Union 1694. 8833. girls division of bookstore basketball. College. Give to your FJK representitive. 
Will begin April 1D-14. Call BetsyClassic OVItion guitar with hard shell LOST: Tape recorder from Eline . Hefty 41-4214 (2:30-4:30). Aslo, we need OBSERVER TYPISTS: ovation can In absolute perfect condi­reward, no questions. Call 3308. volunteers to ref and keep score. Call There will be a short mandatorytion. Must play to appreciate lt. Call Amy 41-5710 (11:00 -11:30 pm). meeting on Thursday April 6 at 7:00 pmGene 1694. FOUND: plaid cap. 6992. In the Observer Office. Please attendl 
Rich Pugliese -Rally ... Piaase attend this meeting or Full color Cotton Bowl and USC football; FOUND: Gold watch with black band. Excuse the late night call but I couldn't Marty will kill me for forgetting to put UCLA and Maryland and Kentlucky Found Tuesday am In Haggar lecture rm. resist a man with cl~s and bandana. this message In bold print like the thing b-ball pictures for sale. Sportsa Illustrat­Contact Joe at 288-2688. When spring fever hits "parso.,.nal" ly llys. ed llllterial at a low price. Call Doug at notify your secret admirer. .e., 8982 or stop by 318 Zahm. 


_ .... 
~--------------------------------------------~--~--~------~----~--------------------~~------------~----~-----­

---------~-......,....,-----­
.,SL--_ ____It.lthi..I..Jiiie~oub.,siOillllile!Lrv.JI..IIileu.r______wednesday, April s, 1978 



ND wrestlers finish 20th nationally 
performance in the NCAA finals, this season has just been unbeliev­
by Brian Beglane 
Sports Writer able." 
The Top Twenty in the nation; Golic pinned Tim Walden of Iowa An elite list. difficult to make. State in 1:44 in· the opening round which shows who is the best in the of the NCAA tournament and then United States. Schools have found handled Arizona's Mike Engwall it difficult to keep up with the Irish 6-2 in the second round. The Notre ' on that list in football, fencing,and Dame junior met Jerry Anderson of basketball this year. the former two Drake for the third time this year in reigning as king of the hill. the quarterfinals and beat him 5-1. 
Now Notre Dame has moved up Golic's next match pitted him to the level of national prominence against Jimmy Jackson of Okla­in a new sport. Three Blue and homa State. Jackson proved to be Gold performers made it to the one of the few heavyweights in the NCA 1\ finals and one finished third country that Golic.could not handle. best in the country. Their success beating the Irish grappler 11-5. plus the dedication of the whole This semifinal loss knocked Golic team enabled the Notre Dame out of contention for a natkmal wrestling team to finish out its title. It did not go without greates season with the ranking of controversy. twentieth in the nation. "Bob's match with Jackson was a 
Bob Golic (HWT), Dave Di-great one and an honor for him. He Sabato (126), and Rob Dreger (177) took some shots in the early going all represented the Irish at the and established himself as the NCAA finals March 16-18 at the aggressor. Then the controversy University of Maryland. Golic started," noted coach Sepeta. came away from the three day "Jackson got four points at the tourney with a 5-1 record and a very end of the first period when it third place finish, his best ever. seemed the buzzer had already DiSabato won his first match before sounded. Then towards the end of losing two more while Dreger lost the second period Bob knocked in the first round. Jackson clean over but the referre 
How many teams with a final said the buzzer sounded. He got NCAA tourney and winning a we can use this year to try and get "No athlete at Notre Dame record of 8-5 make it to national robbed twice. If either call had match is just a great experience. some good wrestlers to come to works harder than my wrestlers. prominence? Not many, and Irish gone his way the match would have He is only a sophomore and Notre Dame. We don't need Keeping their weights down and Head Coach Ray Sepeta realizes it. been different. competing against wrestlers of this money, just a few good recruits," practicing every day for such a longHe cannot explain how, either, but A wrestler from Princeton fin-ca.liber is a great experience. noted Sepeta. season is a difficult task, and right now that does not matter. ished second to Jackson and Jack-Dreger was a bit tight in his If there is a reason for the everyone on that team worked The main thing is that the Irish are son won the title by pinning match and got pinned. He did an surprising success of this year's hard," Sepeta said. there. him. Bob rode Jackson better so he outstanding job making it to the team, it is hard work and dedica­Off the mats the work put in was "I am just really elated about our has at least proved himself as tournament, though, and had a tion. just as hard. Sepeta is an advisor finish this year. It has been an second best in the country." great season," noted Sepeta. [ContfDaed on paae 4] 
::::::::::::;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::.::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::·
absolutely super season. I never Now the Irish take the success of 
Monte Towle
could have really hoped for it. The DiSabato decisioned Lamar Boyer One good year can affect the whole kids faced tremendous odds and of Brigham Young University 9-4 in program and really make a change. how they overcame them I really do the opening before being elimin-Wt~ put our program together with 

Parting Players 
not know," noted the third year ated in the next round by Colum-chewing gum and baling wire, and coach. bia's Jerry Reid 13-1. Dreger was an~ not a wrestling power. But now "We won two tournaments, one knocked out of contention in the this year and use it to try and build 
.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.· Towle's Rags
of which was the National Catholic first round, being pinned by Tom tht: wrestling program at ND. ·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.•.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·••.·.·•·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·. Championship. Finishing second Flanagan of the University of ''My task right now is to jump on Baseball remains America's national pastime. Opening Day stares us in the Midwest Regionals was icing Tennessee at Chatanooga in 3:41. the success we had this season and in the face today as the event which truly signifies the arrival of spring and on the cake. and now with our "For DiSabato being at the try and perpetuate it for the future. the upcoming summer. It is a time of festival for most of the baseball 
family as teams make their final preparations for the taxing 162-game schedule that leads into the playoffs and the classic World Series. 
'Jnfortunately, some of those preparations include the releasing of players who have had their great moments in the sun only to be sent out to pasture by Mike Henry the grooming incident with Hrabo­Kemp and LeFlore--it's hard to say where the grass just doesn't seem quite so green anymore. Past Sports Writer performances and records do little for a baseball players's security. It's a 
Players prepare for season 
sky got blown out of proportion. how good they can be. It's going to matter of "what have you done for me lately?". Veteran ballplayers don'tWe'd win a game in the nin.th be a fun year for our fans." 
Ed Note: Tbls Is the last of a three inning, the reporters would come Detroit's main weakness is lack of die, they just get released, waived or sent to the minors with a one way part series on baseball spring into the clubhouse, and the game pitching depth, although Fidrych ticket. And the ten-year-old kids asks they gray-haired gentleman, training. While this preseason "Weren't you once Bob Feller?"
became secondary--the writers just and Rozema can be counted on,
ritual Is treated differently by all Every year, major league teams are forced to trim their rosters to 25
wanted to talk to Hrabosky about and Jack Morris and Bruce Taylor
the players depending on their players by Opening Day. It's so easy to send that 20-year-old rookie with a
his beard. This year manager Rapp have shown flashes of brillance. 
status with a team, the one The Tigers should be contenders hanging curve down to the International League for another year of
is allowing us to establish our own 
common element of this ordeal Is seasoning. But how do you tell a former Most Valuable Player that his
dress code, and its no longer an for years to cc.me. 
the various formulas offered by the services are no longer needed? I can't imagine it being much easier than
issue. The players are mature ReOectJons: 
athletes that If followed wlU ensure enough to present themselves re­Tim Corcoran, Detroit Tigers, having to tell your father that he can't come to the party you and your their team a World Series spot. friends are having. However, I don't imagine that Charlie Finley had too
spectably while not denying indivi­outfield: "I'm ready for the season big a lump in his throat when he gave a bus ticket to Dick Allen. 
Reflections: duals' rights to neatly-groomed to start right now. However, Dave Concepcion, Cincinnati hair, mustaches and even beards." spring training is a time to work on 
Dick (Richie) Allen was one of the most talented, yet troubled baseball Reds, shortstop: "The main thing (Note: It is about time that Reitz fundamentals and to learn. Even­
players of our time. His major league story began in Philadelphia with the we have to do differently this year received his due as the best though we're both going for the Phillies. Ensuing chapters of his career story were set in St. Louis, Los is get off to a good start, and I think fielding third baseman in the right field job, Charlie Spikes and I 
Angeles, Chicago, back to Philadelphia, and! then to Oakland. Didn't he the acquisition of Seaver and Bon­majors. Despite being lead-footed, get along real well. As a matter of almost end up in Atlanta? (I might have forgotten a stop or two as his ham will help us do this. I stayed in Reitz is sure-handed and has the fact, his locker is right next to 
baseball lineage is indeed difficult to trace).. shape by playing winter ball in range of a young Brooks Robinson. mine. I think we'll be a lot better 
The 36-year-old Allen was attempting a comeback with the Oakland Venezuela under Ossie Virgil and Yankee or Phillie rooters' objec­this; year, especially defensively. I Athletics this year. And although he was relc:ased last week, Allen is sure batted .371 (Second in the league). tions to the contrary, neither Graig was amazed when I first saw Alan that some team can use him although I'd have to think that if Oakland 
Morgan and I used to have to Nettles nor Mike Schmidt holds a Trammell, our rookie shortstop--his didn't need him, then nobody does. It was painful to watch Allen try to hit communicate quite a bit on the, candle to Reitz when it comes to range and hands were incredible, in recent years. His timing had departed hiim as well as the power that field, but now we know each guarding the hot corner). esp•ecially just coming out of high once made him a 40-homer threat every year. other's patterns and habits. My school. Tanana gives me more Allen won the MVP award with the Chicago White Sox in 1972 as he goals for this season are to win the The last two teams to visit AI trolllble than anyone else. He clubbed 37 homers and knocked in 113 runs to lead the American League division, and to help do this I hope Lang Field during my spring throws what I call 'pitchers' in both categories. But come 1978, baseball suddenly realized that there to bat around .280 and drive in 80 sojourn were the Red Sox and the pitches'--it's a challenge to hit is no longer room for a washed-up hitter who has never shaken the tag of 
runs. I'd also like to break Eddie Tigers, both of which have high him. When I get into a slump, my dissenter. Brinkman's fielding record for hopes to catch the Yankees this front shoulder and head usually It's a different story with Larry Dierker. The St. Louis Cardinals cut the fewest errors in a season. I wear season. The Red Sox have a come out, and I can't hit anything. righthanded pitcher from their roster last week. Three years ago, I could 
number 13 because I like it. When powerful line-up that will splinter This year, I'll have Gates Brown, never have imagined a fastball phenom like Dierker being shipped out to I came up hardly anyone wore it but fences around the league, but our batting coach, watch for that make room for throwers named Falcone, Rasmussen and Forsch. Dierker now a bunch of players do (Ron they'll lose some games 13-12 due when I'm not hitting. We're going was supposed to make us forget Koufax and Marichal. Dierker once won Pruitt, Indians, Lance Parrish, to shoddy pitching. Tiant: to have an exciting team this year, 20 games for the Houston Astros. But even a younster of 31 years of age is Tigers, Kurt Bevacqua, Rangers, and Lee, while still smart and and I think we'll challenge the limited in the number of mediocre comeback attempts he can make. Just Roy Howell, Blue Jays, Joe Fergu­respectable, are aging and have Yankees, Red Sox and Orioles." ask Tony Conigliaro. Injuries had hindered Dierker in recent years and son, Astros, Fernando Gonzales, seen their best days. even his youthful looks and balanced temperament were not enough to sell Pirates.) The Tigers are a refreshing the Cardinals on his lost ability to pitch effectively. but time can play

Flegister today 

Ken Reitz, St. Louis Cardinals, aggregate of youngsters who pos­tricks and even work wonders; a Ia Willie McCovey and Gaylord Perry. third base: "I was pretty dis­sess unlimited potential. The Bookstore Basketball registra­As the baseball season opens, there will be other familiar names appointed when the Cards traded names are no longer recognizable-­tion will begin today. Teams may missing as well. Denny Doyle, the 2nd baseman who aided the Red Sox to me to the Giants in 1976 for Pete ~e Cashes, Kalines and Freehans be registered by calling Tourney the 1975 American League crown is gone. Also absent are 39-year-old Falcone. 1 had been in the St. Louis having been replaced by Sweet Lou Commissioner Leo Latz at 8361 Tito Fuentes, pitcher Pat Dobson and Ed Armbrister among others. The organization for seven years and Whittaker, Alan Trammell and from 7-10 p.m. each evening this Montreal Expos got fed up with Fuentes' contract demands while the was settled in St. Louis. I sold my Steve Kemp--but fans will soon be week. Each team should be sure to cleveland Indians demoted Dobson, a former 20-game winner with the house two weeks later. My wife talking of these kids in the same include a team name and two team ')rioles, to their minor league station in Portland. Armbrister is best and I grew to like San Francisco, breath with those n~ ~ famous captains. ;emembered for the controversial play at the plate with Carlton Fisk in the 
but there was talk of moving the stars. Manager Ralph tiouk is the Applications for the Bookstore 1975 World Series. team to Toronto and crowds were benefactor of this youthful talent, Basketball Staff will also be accep­Time keeps moving on and it really took me many years to realize that sparse. Then, the Giants traded and speaks glowingly of their ted this week. applications may be baseball players do grow older like everyone else. Father Time shows me back to St. Louis for Lynn future. ''Our young talent is a submitted to Latz at 140 Pangborn compassion to no one and that is a bitter pill for a ballplayer to swallow in McGiothlen. Last year we were tribute to our farm system," Houk and should include name, address, a world that favors youth. For someone like Larry Dierker or Ed battling tor the lead into July when states. "Guys like Thompson, and phone number. Armbrister, though, there is still time to re~ain that lost ability. 
Senior Rob Dreger .displays the form which carried him to the Finals of the NCAA Wrestling Tournament. Bob Golic and Dave DiSabato also qualified for the tourney. 





