

~--------------------------------------------------------------------------------­


server 
an indep~ndent student newspaper serving riotre dame and. st. m.lry'.s VOL. XII, No. 131 Thursday, May 4 1978 
CLC discusses lofts, LaFortune 
'/ 
by Kathleen Connelly to modify guidelines for construc­
Senior Staff Reporter tion to fit their halls and staffs. 
In other actions regarding the 
The Campus Life Council passed proposal, the group decided to several resolutions last night in an delete a phrase which called lofts executive session held in Keenan "a viable, safe alternative to Hall. dormitory overcrowding." The 
The group first acted on the loft CLC believed the phrase would guidelines formulated by John actually encourage further over­Simari. John Ryan and Mike Gil­crowding by enabling the Univer­roy. sity to justify the assignment of 
Discussion in part centered additional students to rooms in around a difficulty with the defini­which lofts would be built. tion of the word "loft." Dean of Students James Roemer 
A directive issued by former indicated that he was skeptical that Housing Director Fr. John Mulcahy Bro. Just Paczesny, vice-president prohibits lofts. but states later on for Student Affairs. would make all that "construction" would be per­the changes the proposal endorsed. mitted. "I'm just being realistic," Roemer 
Fr. Mario Pedi, rector of St. Ed's noted. · ' Hall. stated that Fire Chief Bland Roemer also said that du Lac had inspected several rooms at his already been printed up and revis­request and called some structures ing would cause difficulties. Bill lofts that did not resemble what is Vita, HPC representative to the considered a loft in other halls. Council, responded by saying that 
The members decided to replace the issue was too important to the the word "loft" with "construc­students to sacrifice just because tion" in order to limit confusion du Lac has already been printed. regarding what type of structures The final version of the loft would be permitted. proposal also included specification 
A further topic of discussion on the distance of matresses from regarding lofts was a revision of the the ceiling, and the required place­proposal that would require the ment of smoke detectors in rooms approval of the hall rector and the with special construction. fire chief. if the rector thought it The CLC also voted to make a 
proposal to Paczesny regarding the 
Fr. Thomas Tallarida, rector of LaFortune renovations expected to Zahm Hall. pointed out that there be completed this summer. is a great diversity .of halls on It was recommended that the campus, and that rectors may want responsibility for the renovation be 
neccss~rv. 
St.Mary's student falls through skylight, one floor 
A Saint Mary's student fell was '}'alking back across the roof through a skylight in LelV1ans when she slipped and broke 
Hall yesterday afternoon and was through the skylight, falling one rushed to St. Josephe's Hospital story into the college president's in critical condition. 
board room. 
When contacted last evening, St. 
The student, Junior Kathleen T. Joseph's would not release any Hughes of Youngstown, OH, was further information on' Hughes' sunbathing on a side roof of condition. A mass was said LeMans before the accident occur­yesterday in Regina Hall for her 
f 
delegated to a specific administra­tor and that a student government representative meet with that ad­ministrator to discuss specific details of the project. Such details would include the establishment of a timetable and setting priorities in the event of limited funds. 
The proposal also called for a public statement from Paczesny outlining the renovations. 
Paczesny was not present at the meeting, but he sent a letter to the Council in which he outlined plans for LaFortune renovations. Accor­ding to the letter, the position of an elevator in the Student Center is yet to be decided, as are plans by Saga Engineers for the Huddle and food sales. 
It was noted, however, by Andy Herring. Special Projects director, that as of May 1 the Saga director for the Huddle had only a prelimi­
-nary outline of desired changes. 
In Paczesny's letter, there was no mention that these renovations would take place during the sum­mer. The letter also said that the entire first floor will be changed to accomodate tables and chairs and that the present furnishings would be moved to second floor ballroom. A delicatessen and tobacco shop will also be built in the Student 
Center.  
The  question  of  a  pub  in  the  
basement  of  LaFo rt une  is  still  
unresolved.  

The presentation by Herring outlined the original plans for renovation approved by the Univer­sity's Board of Trustees. Not covered in the letter to the CLC were plans for a plant shop, a dining room. and the conversion of an alcove off the lobby into the International Student Union. 
The letter from Paczesny also offered complete support of the CLC's residentiality survey and the social space proposal. 
Other resolutions passed includ­ed the recommendation that vacan­cies in the halls be available to alleviate the over crowding "beyond capacity" in residence 

juni.ors celebrate at SMC clubhouse-3 years down 1 to go. upon them. [Photo by Ken McAlpine] 
But...seniors year is almost 

halls before allowing other stu­dents to move on campus. Also passed was a proposal to install barbecue grills in five locations on campus: the Green Field near Notre Dame Avenue; the baseball diamonds by Carroll Hall and Holy Cross; the field between the towers and the library; and the walnut grove near the Rockne building. 
A policy on paneling was approv­ed by the Council to be submitted to Paczesny. The first point of the proposal was that present paneling may or may not remain upon the discretion of the rector of the hall and fire chief. The second point entails regualtion of the installation of paneling. The plan, if approved by the vice-president of Student Affairs, will specify that paneling: be placed flush with the wall; be Underwriter's Laboratory approv­ed; meet with the approval of the fire chief and rector; not cover electrical wiring; and adhere to present fire safety reguations. 
Fr. Richard Conyers. rector of Keenan Hall, motioned to resolve to recommend to Paczesnv that tl'. University make certain. that al: 
[continued on page 18] 

History Professor named Faculty Senate chairman 
by Dave Rumback designed to increase informal inter­
Senior Staff Reporter action between students and teach­
en•. will issue 75 meal passes. 
The Faculty Senate last night Prof. James 'Dougherty of th·~ elected Vincent DeSanis. professor Administration Affairs Committee of history, to be next year' s· Senate reported that results of the Senate chairm:m during its final meeting survey he distributed during the 
of the year. April meeting was inconclusive 
In other elections Ken Good­because of "a too small response... paster, profesor of philosophy, was The survey was concerned with a selected vice-chiarman a Professor defeated Senate proposal to fm ma­Irwin was selected Treasurer, and lize the faculty advisors consulted Librarian Katharina Blackstead by the provost in making promotion was elected secretary. and appointment decision. 
Elected to chair tire Senates Outgoing Senate Chairman Paul three standing committees were Conway announced that Electwns Associate Professor of Graduate of new Senate members from the Studies Michael Franics, Admini­College of Science had not been stration Affairs Committee. Ass­completed. Twenty Senate posi­ociate Professor of Civil Engineer­tions change hands this year. ing Robert Irivine, Facultv Affairs Other outgoing officers include Committee, and Assistnat Profes­Prof. Ken Good poster Secretary. sor of Modern and Classical Lan­Prof. Sara Daugherty, Vice-chair· gauges Albert LeMay. men, Librarian Katharina Black­
In other business. Father Claude stead, Faculty Affairs Committe. 
Pomerleau. of the Senate's Student Prof. James Dougherty, Adminis­Affairs Committee announced that tration Affairs Committee and Fr. funding had been secured for the Claude Pomerleau, assistant gov­program to allow teachers to eat in ernment professor and chairman of the dining halls. The program, the Student Affairs Committee. 


Thursday, May 4 1978 
2 the observer 
N~.UJ~ !3~~f!~~-~,,,,---­.' ~ it~~-~:;=1·~~~:!< :~:~ ;11i~tt' __ National! 
FDR scrapped 
NEW YORK • The aircraft carrier Franklin D. Roosevelt was towed 
into New York Harbor yesterday to be scrapped in Kearney, NJ. I 
The mammoth fighting ship, towed from Norfolk, VA, was retired 
last October after 32 years in service. It was one of three Midway 
class carriers, then the largest in the world, built in 1945. The 
carrier's major service was in the Atlantic and Mediterranean and 
with NATO, but it also spent six months in the Vietman area. 
Short .fireman protests 
EAST PROVIDENCE, Rl • A man who was not allowed to become a firefighter because he is less than 5 feet 6 inches tall. has charged in U.S. District Court that his constitutional rights were violated. Bruce W. Dias. 19, sai4 he was forced to take off his sneakers and stand against a wall to b'e measured. Dias says firefighters do not fight fires without footwear, and the height test should be disallowed. : 
Skokie can stop Nazi march 
SPRINGFIELD, IL ·A state Senate committee has approved a.bill that would allow courts to prohibit demonstrations by groups . seeking to slander others. The measure, approved Tuesday, is aimed at a march planned by a small band of nco-Nazis in the heavily Jewish community of Skokie. Illinois and federal courts have struck down Skokie ordinances which sought to ban the march. , 
''The time has come in this country to realize that certain proposal personal liberties have to be abridged," argued Sen. Leroy W. Lemke, D-Chicago. 

Weather 
Cloudy, windy and cool with a 30 percent chance of light rain today and tonight. Highs low to mid 50s. Lows tonight upper 30s to around 40. Cloudy tomorrow with highs in the low to mid 50s. 
i_()n ~_.cu ?Tnu ­

thursd~y 
1 pm baseball, nd vs. huntingdon college, jake klein field. 
1 pm tennis, nd vs. de paul univ., outdoor courts. 
4 pm meeting, nd chapter of american association of univ. professors, univ. club. 
5 pm mass, for the deceased of the nd & smc communities, ~lumni hall chapel. 
6:45 pm roYry, every evening in may, grotto. 
8 pm nd/smc theatre, "the mikado," call 284-4176 for tickets, o'l~ughlin ~ud. 
8 pm re~ding & vigil, commemorating kent state shoot­ings, dillon hall chapel. 
9 • 11 pm nazz, jake scheider and bill careey, Iafortune basement. friday 
12:15 pm biology travelogue, "south africa: geographical beauty and human tragedy," a. peter walshe, biology aud., rm. 278 galvin. 
~SCOTTSDALE ~RIVER PARK 
Scottsdale Mall Mishawaka Avenue at 30th Telephone 291-4583. Telephone 288-8488 
In Colorado 


Carter marks 'Sun Day' 
GOLDEN, CO [AP] • President 
Carter marked "Sun Day" yester­
day by proposing increased federal 
spending for solar energy and 
promising to develop a new "na­
tional solar strategy." 
In the first stop of a planned 
three-day Western trip, Carter 
visited a nine-month-old solar 
research facility here. 
Before arriving, however, Carter 
sprang a surprise announcement to 
reporters while en route from 
Washington to Denver on Air Force 
One, then repeated the announce­
ment in his speech. 
Carter said he has instructed the 
Department of Energy to shift $100 
million in proposed spending in the 
next fiscal year from unspecified 
areas and into solar, wind, mini­
hydroelectric and other so-called 
"renewable energy" projects. 
Presidential press secretary Jody 
Powell told reporters aboard the 
presidential jet that Carter and 
Energy Secretary James R. Schles­
inger had been "cooking up" the 
idea for some time but that Carter 
had wanted to save the announce­
ment as a surprise. 
As originally drafted, the presi­
dent's speech mentioned no pre­
cise figures on new spending goals 
for renewable energy projects. 
Carter had noted in the prepared text, however, that his proposed spending for fiscal 1979 contains a 64 percent increase in money for development of solar power. 
The president also had planned to announce a new $14 million loan to the city of Lamar, CO, for a project to convert livestock excre­ment into methane gas. But after the original draft of the speech was distributed to reporters, the presi­dent discovered that Sen. Floyd Haskell, D-CO, had already an­nounced the project on Tuesday. 
Ironically, it was both sunny and rainy as Air Force One touched down at Stapleton Airport in near­by Denver at approximately 5:25 
p.m. EST. The president immedi­ately headed by motorcade to Golden. 
In his speech, Carter announced he is ordering a new Cabinet-level study to develop a national solar strategy and praised solar energy as a potential counterweight to rising oil prices. 
"Nobody can embargo sun­light,'' the president told his audience at the research center, a federally financed project operated for the Department of Energy by 
The Observer Is published Man­dey tllruugh Frldey except during exem end vaatlon periods. Tl)e Observer Is published by the students of Notre Deme end Selnt Miry's College. Subscriptions mey be purdlesed for uo per yeer (S 1 o per semester) from The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Deme, lndlene 46556. Second cless postege peld, Notre Deme, lndlene, 4UU. 
The Observer Is 1 member of the AIIOclltld Prell. All repro­duction rlghfl 1re reaerved. 
the private, non-profit Midwest 
Research Institute of Kansas City. 
"No cartel controls the sun," 
Carter said in an apparent refer­
ence to the Arab oil embargo of 
1973-74. "Its energy will not run 
out. It will not pollute our air or 
poison our waters. It is free from 
stench and smog. The sun's power 
needs only to be collected, stored 
and used. 
"The question is no longer 
whether solar energy works," he 
added. "We know it works. The 
only question is how to cut costs so 
that solar power can be used more 
widely and set a cap on rising oil 
prices." · 
Carter said his energy plan, still 
stalled in Congress, would in­
crease use of home solar systems 
by offering more than $500 million 
in tax credits -up to $2,000 for each 
homeowner · over the next seven 
years. 
The Cabinet-level review will be 
headed by Energy Secretary James 
Schlesinger, who accompanied 
Carter on the trip. The panel will 
issue a report by Sept. 1 to help 
Carter make budget and legislative 
Traffic Board applications available 
Any student wishing to be on the 1978-79 Traffic Appeals Board must fill out an application at the Student Government offices in LaFortune by Friday. 
Pick up your Dome today! 
Today is the final day to pick up copies of the 1977-78 Dome. Yearbooks will be distributed in the LaFortune ballroom from 1-5 p.m. Students must present their I.D. 
cllrclc: 
The OBSERVER end-of-the-year party on Friday the 5th has been moved to Guiseppe's. The van will run from the OBSERVER 
parking space 
every half-hour 
from 
8:30 to 10:30 p.m. 

~TOWN &COUNTRY 1&2 
Town & Country Shopping Center 
Telephone 259-9090
1 2 
Olrn 
recommendations next fall.  
"The job of this committee will  
be to develop an overall solar  
strategy for speeding the use of  
solar technologies -both by new  
programs and by improving exist­ 
ing federal programs," Carter  
said.  
At every stop, Carter will be  
seeking support for the administra­ 
tion's priority goals for 1978 -the  
voluntary anti-inflation program,  
tax cuts and revisings, civil service  
reorganization, and implementa­ 
tion of an urban policy, said Deputy  
White House press secretary Rex  
Granum.  
Concession  
lottery  
to be held  
by Sue Wuetcher  
A lottery will be held this Friday  
afternoon to assign concession  
stands for the upcoming football  
season, according to John Reid,  
assistant director of Student Activi­ 
ties.  
Reid stated that all university  
approved clubs and organizations  
can apply to be in the lottery.  
''There are six home football  
games this year, and twelve stands  
at each game," he said. "That  
means there will be seventy-two  
places in the lottery.'' .  
Reid commented that the goal of  \  
the project was to spread the  
money around to as many people as possible. "Some groups have as  1  
many as 1,500 members,'' he  
remarked. "Others only have six  
or seven people in them. We try to  
assign two or three of the smaller  
groups to each booth."  
Reid stressed that only Notre  
Dame undergraduate groups are  
eligible for the lottery. "The  
individual halls are also elegible,"  
he said, "but they've already been  
notified by the Hall President's  
Council. We're mostly trying to  
reach the clubs and organiza­ 
tions."  
Reid added that all applications  
for concession stands must be in by  
Friday at 3 p.m. Anyone with any  
questions should call Student Acti­ 
vities at 7308.  
Senior  
Comp. and Lit.  
reunion Monday  
Dr. Cynthia Davis, a former  
Teaching Assistant in the English  
Department, is planning a get­ 
together celebration for all seniors  
who were in her Freshman Comp.  
and Lit. class 4 years ago.  
Former students of Dr. Davis,  
either fall or spring semester are  

invited to come to 628 Park Avenue--3 blocks west of Memorial Hospital--at 8:30 Monday evening , May 8. 
For information, call 232-9286. 
*The Observer 
Night Editor: Steve Odland Asst. Night Editor: Margie Brassil, Sherry Mummert layout Staff: Tim Hamilton, Bart Corsaro, Tom Monroe, Jim Rudd, Kate Leonard Editorial layout: Greg Hedges Features layout: Brzhob & Caz10 Sports layout: Greg "God, I'm tired" Solman Typists: Lisa DiValerio, Stacy Weaver, Katie Brehl Supplement: John Calcutt, Tom Dowd Night Controllers: Mardi Nevin, Lisa DiValerio Day Editor: Marian Ulicny 
Copy Reader: Jack Pizzolato Ad layout: Greg Trzupek Photographer: Ken McAlpine 


~------------------------------------------------------------------------~------------------------------------------­
Thursday, May 4 1978 
the observer 

·/Indiana voters oust eight !\incumbents in primaries 


Jet sales to enhance security 
The Notre Dame swimming team has contri­buted funds for the purchase of silverware needed by Corvilla House, a South Bend home for handicapped youngsters. The athletes sold programs for football and basketball games and conducted a swimathon in their annual to provide support for a local 

charitable organization. Pictured with Brother Flavius Ellison, C.S.C., and two of his charges are James Severyn, team captain and a South Bend senior majoring in science, center, and 
Edward Diluia, co-captain from  Homewood,  
Illinois  and  a  senior  majoring  in  business  
administration.  

WASHINGTON [AP]-The nation's leading diplomatic and military officials told Congress yester­day, the pending sale of jet fighters to lsraei,Saudi Arabia and Egypt 
will enhance Israel's security,  not  
imperil it.  
Secretary  of  State  Cyrus  R.  

Vance. Defense Secretary Harold Brown and Air Force Gen. David Jones, acting chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, called the proposal a step toward peace in the Middle East and "vitally important" to l,l.S. interests there. 
The trio, testifying before the Senate Foreign Relations Commit­tee, opened the Carter Administra­tion's formal defense of the war planes sales. President Carter want to sell 60 F-15 jet fighters to Saudi Arabia, 75 F-16s to Israel and 50 less sophisticated F-SEs to Egypt. 
Meanwhile, Senate Minority Leader Howard H. Baker. R-TN., said he personally approves of the most controversial element of the sales sale of the F-lSs to Saudi Arabia. 
But Baker also said Congress may well not go along with the deal unless the Carter administration compromises on the number and mix of the planes, delivery dates and restrictions on their use. 
Under parliamentary proce­dures, Congress has 30 days to disapprove of an arms sale sent to Capitol Hill by a president. If it fails tp act by May 28 on the current proposal, the deal will go through. The only way Congress can stop the sales is to pass resolutions of disapproval in both the House and Senate. 
While Vance, Brown and Jones were defending the sales plan, several members of the Senate committee expressed concern that it may be unwise and could harm Israeli security interests. 
One day earlier, 22 of the 37 members of the House Interna­tional Relations Committee had introduced a resolution to kill the entire sales deal. 
Vance, nonetheless, reiterated the administration's view that the sales are necessary. • 
''These sales will maintain essential links that permit us to play the fundamental role as a mediator between the parties,'' he said. 
"Failure to proceed with the sales will seriously undercut the American role in the peace process and raise grave doubts about U.S. readiness to work with moderate governments in the region," Vance added. 
Brown said, "These sales will continue to assure that the military balance will remain in Israel's favor. 
"Indeed, Israel will be relatively stronger after receiving these add­itional F-ISs and F-16s, while giving Egypt and Saudi Arabia a more reasonable assurance that they can defend themselves against potential attacks from other quar­ters about which they have real reason for concern, the defense secretary said. 



an tOscal 
1) do you want to be an tostal chairman next year? 
2) are you interested in buying a kite .from DINESH BAHADVR or an hish Brigade album? 
3) do you have pictures o.f an tostal you'd like to share with us? 
"t , , , , 
4) Roast-a-Rooney t ont e ...... . 
if any of the above answers are YES­call 6413 or 7668 in the afternoon. 
INDIANAPOUS [API • Voters gave the boot to eight incumbent legislators Tuesday, including three Democratic Senate commit­' tee chairmen and a House Republi­can who built a statewide reputa­. tion opposing homosexuality and 
the Equal Rights Amendment. 
In all, five Democrats and three Republicans were defeated in the primary election. The voters also rejected the first nun to run for a state-level office in Indiana and a young Democrat who wanted to join his father in the Senate. 
All 100 House seats and half of the 50 Senate seats were on the ballot this year. Ninety incumbent representatives, including 47 from the majority Republican party, and 21 incumbent senators, nine of them from the majority Democrat party, so~ght renomination, 
Forty-three of the incumbent House members, 25 of them Re­publicans, were unopposed in the primary. In the Senate, six incumbent Republicans and eight incumbent Democrats went unchal­lenged. 
The losing Democratic incum­bents were Sens. Joseph G. Brug­genschmidt of Jasper, James A. Lewis of Charlestown arid Rodney Piper of Muncie, and Reps. Nelson 
D. Kennedy of Palmyra and Arthur 
R. Murakowski of Hammond. On the Republican side, incum­bent Reps. Arthur C. Hayes of Fort Wayne, and Donald Boys and George E. Schmid, both of Indi­anapolis, lost their bids for renom­ination, although Schmid said he won't be convinced until the official tallies are completed. The voters also rejected Sister Suzanne Dailey, D-St. Mary-of-the­Woods, who made political history by filing for the Senate seat left vacant when Herman Fanning, D-West Terre Haute, retired. John Elden Tipton, son of incumbent Sen. Elden C. Tipton, ran for the sam( nomination. But a $7,000, self-financed campaign by John Kesler of West Terre Haute proved the winning ticket. 
In a turnaround from the 1976 elections, Boys, a freshman, lost to former Rep. Jack Mullendore, R-Franklin, by 170 votes. Boys, i who led a drive earlier this year to expunge Indiana' pro-ERA vote and enact a "Right to Decency" biii, said his controversial stands won him as many votes as they cost him. 
He said the death of Mullen­dore's pilot brother, Don, in a crash. that killed seven United States Auto Club officials earlier this month, may have created some sympathy for his opponent. 
''There's no doubt that there were some sympathy votes," Boys said. "It would be abnormal if that were not true." 
Kennedy and Hayes both have served six two-year terms in the House and Murakowski has served five. 
Piper has served two terms in the Senate and Bruggenschmidt, a maverick conservative, was seek­ing his third four-year term. Lewis,· a freshman, had two years experi­ence in the House and Bruggen­schmidt eight, before graduating to the Senate. 
In the Senate, Piper was chair­
man of the Public Policy Commit­
tee, Bruggenschmidt chaired the 
Natural Resources, Environment 
and Agriculture Committee and 
Lewis was in charge of the Elec­
tions and Apportionment Commit­
tee. 
At least six former legislators 
were nominated Tuesday. includ­
ing former Indianapolis Democratic 
Reps. Forest Handlon Jr., Marl 
Ann Seyfried and Catherine Van­
Arsdale, who want their old seats 
back, and Nelson Grills, who is 
making a bid for the Senate. 
Former Rep. Anthony Pizzo, 
D-Bioomington. also was nomi­
nated for his old House seat and 
former Rep. Richard Worman, 
R-Grabill, won his bid for a Senate 
nomination. 
Indianapolis law Kevin Mc­
Shane, who helped successfully 
defend Anthony G. Kiritsis against 
kidnap charges, beat the party 
slate to win the Democratic nomi­
nation to run for the House from a 
three-member, Republican-control­
led district. 

by Kevin Walsh Senior Staff Reporter 
Internships which allow one to 
put "textbook facts" and profes­
sors' theories into actual practice 
are opportunities coveted by many 
students. Several of the Univer­
sity's colleges have such intern­
ships, but most are in conjunction 
with organizations on campus. The 
Urban Coalition, however, has 
established an intership program 
which enables students to partici­
pate in off-campus, work-study 
situation. 
The urban internshipprogram, in 
its fifth year of existence, was 
initiated bv the Urban Institute. 
AfTer gaining the approval of the 
Un:versitv's Academic Council. ad­
ministration of the program was 
placed in the hands of the Govern­
ment Department. 
Since the program's inception, John Kromkowski, professor Gov­<:rnment, has been one of the major forces behind the success of the internships. Kromkowski 's inter­est is stimulated by the value he believes students receive from this work-study experience. "This type of work experience." the professor noted. "is a test situation for students who plan to work as policy planners in the filed of urban administration.'· 
"Through participation in these workstudy situations." Kromkow­ski continued. "it is hoped that students will learn the answers to such questions as: What is important in this field?, How do institutions treat people?, and How do people treat each other?" 
The internships, which are one semester in length. are with such groups as Sough Bend's Public Defender's Office, the Northeast Neighborhood Association, and Notre Dame's Urban Institute. Only fifteen positions are available for students each semester. but Kromkowski believes this is neces­sary for such a specialized pro­
gram. 
"I couldn't handle any more than fifteen different internships in a term and still provide time for personal interaction with students at periodic intervals as I do now," Kromkowski stressed. "By keep­ing the number of internships at a low level, I'm able to maintain close contact with the students." 
Senior government majors are the primary recipients of these internships, Kromkowski noted. 
However, interns occasionally come from other disciplines, most notably American Studies, econ­omics, and sociology. Each student must work between nine and fifteen hours per week with their particular agency. After a semes­ter of exposure to the organiza­tion's operations, a paper including policy evaluations and personal reflections concerning the agency must be submitted to Kromkowski. 
Though the internship program has a short history, several former interns have gone on to make their marks as urban administrators in various cities throughout the coun­try. Susan Grezkowski, a recent graduate who spent the summer of 1976 working in Boston in a CILA related urban prograam, is a good exmaple. 
After graduation, Grezkowski u­tilized knowledge gained in her work-study program in a job she obtained with the city of Seattle. As a result, she was able to have an effect on that city's urban policy. 
"Seattle has been conducting some urban renewal programs," Kromkowski stated. "In one of the city's plans the intended changes s for a neighborhood were so exten­sive that the entire character of the community was scheduled to be altered. "But," the government professor noted, "Sue developed alternate plans which Seattle final­ly adopted, thus preserving the original character of the neighbor­hood." 
Looking back on her urban work-sutdy experience, Grezkowski noted in a report that she learned a great deal. She stated, "The internship could really be called an apprenticeship. for we were taken 
-in by more experiences people and taught by them." 
Grezkowski noted theat, "The practical work experience forced one to think, something you do not always have to do in school. Thinking is not the same as studying many times. The work­study experience provided a testing ground for ideas and theories presented in classes and books, thus allowing me to find my own explanatins for the way systems work and the causes of problems.'' 
The former ND student conclud­ed by stating, "Getting out beyond the confines of the dome can provide an enriching experience where one has to give, not only take in. It's a different kind of learning.'' 

Mark Bucchi, a classmate of Grezkowski's who studied changes in South Bend's neighborhoods for the Urban Institute, echoed her beliefs. "Theories have limited and specified application," Bucchi notes. "It is for this reason that internships become essential, for they provide the experience which gives substance to and displays the applicability of theory. In other words, this experience forms the reliable bridge between theory and policy.'' 
Kromkowski also noted that last semesters' student interns also accomplished a great deal. Senior Tim Wurz worked last fall for the South Bend Department of Human Resources and Community Devel­opment. Tim was actively involved in laying the groundwork for a neighborhood housing strategy which was submitted to the mayor recently. 
When asked about his experi­ence, Wurz noted that, "A true education is able to combine class­room theories with actual applica­tions. The Work-study seminar was able to accomplish this task. After three years of study attempt­ing to grasp the ideas and ideals of great thinkers and administrators, I had a chance to test my grasp of these concepts by applying the theories to real world situations." 
Other seniors who participated in this program under Kromkowski included Barbara Frewy, Steven Thomas, and Terry BarreL After studying South Bend's Northeast Neighborhood Association, these students formulated a detailed proposal which they felt would aid the association in its attempts to increase neighborhood unity be­tween home owners and student renters. The plan was submitted to the group's members in December. 
Frey summed up the experience by saying. "I learned a lot about Notre Dame and its relation to the community. The University has a definite impact on the Northeast Neighborhood that few people real­ize, but its neutral attitude implicit­ly hurts the neighborhood." 


Professor of government, john Kromkowski [at right] acts as one of the major forces behind Urban Coalition internship program. 
The Student Union Cultural Arts Commission is seeking individuals to comprise the company of next year's student players. 
Anyone interested in acting, directing, set design or technical theatre should attend an organizational meeting on Monday at 7 pm in the Nazz. Plans will be made for next year's semester production. For more information, contact Jeff at 287-3977 or Lou at 233-8363 



.~-----~-----~ ~ 
-_-,. 
0. • • 
Thursday, May 4 1978 . the ObServer 5 . 
. . _·-----,--------A-------,­
r----.... ~··. 

The L;brary 

Pabst Night
I \ 
25c 12oz Drafts ...untillO O'clock 
There will be 
'~';!'/'\~~~. [?;,~~-· 
' (

rf
-shirts & Poste-~~ ., TONITE!! 


Carry· Out Specials ~ 
Old Style -12 pack $2.79 

•

Vodka $4.50 quart ! ' 
~ 
%The Observer 
~n independent newspaper serving Box Q the notre d~me and saint m~ry's Notre Dame community Ind. 46556 
The Observer is published by students of the University of 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily 
reflect the pol1cies of the ddministration of either institution 
The news 1s reported as accurately and as objectively as 
poss1ble Editorials represent the opin1on of a majority of the 
Editorial Board Commentaries, opinions and letters are the 
views of their authors. Column space is available to all 
members of the community, and the free expression of varying opm1ons on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
EDITORIAL BOARD 
Tony Pace Editor-in-Chief Steve Odland Managing Editor John Calcutt Executive Editor Barb Langhenry Executive Editor Rosemary Mills Editorial Editor Phil Cackley Copy Editor Jean Powley St. Mary'sEd1tor Ann Gales News Editor Mike Lewis News Editor Diane Wilson News Editor Ray O'Brien Sports Editor Bryan Gruley Features Editor 
Thursday, May 4, 1978 


The Housing Problem 
Every spring students who plan to live 
on campus the following year must deal 
11vith the hassle of room picks. This year, in 
many halls, room picks have been compli­
cated because many rooms have been 
converted to accomodate more people. 
The University has an obligation to 
provide adequate housing for students who 
pay a r·.1inimum of $620 room and board 
per semester. Unfortunately for the resi­
dents, the University has not met this 
obligation, and unless the situation 
changes, will continue to avoid to meet it. 
For the past two years the housing office 'las dismissed the problem by saying that the actual number of freshmen who decided to enroll was only slightly higher than the estimate. This year, it was also reported that more students elected to stay on campus than usual. We have no reason 10 doubt these statements. However, a difference exists between an occasional miscalculation and what has become a yearly problem. 
Overcrowded rooms are not only uncom­fortable, they can make on-campus living a nightmare. Freshmen have enough trouble trying to acclimate themselves to college without the additonal problem of being stuffed into an overcrowded room. Dormitory rooms offer little privacy an even friends can irritate each other in very close quarters. 
Academic life poses another problem. In spite of the presence of the "largest college library facility in the world," some students like to study in their rooms. The difficulty of studying in a room overcrowd­ed with both furniture and people goes without explanation. 
The need for social space has been a much debated issue on campus this past year. Adequate rooms offer students a place to relax with a small group of friends. 
Overcrowded rooms present problems academically and socially. But there are other reasons why they can be unsafe. 
Fire safety is the joint responsibility of 
the University and the students. Students 
must cooperate by observing fire laws, but 
the University must make this possible. 
More students demand more electricity 
and new wiring unless "unsafe" exten­
sions and multiple outlets are to be used. 
The problems created by overcrowding 
are many, and no solution has been 
proposed. Indeed, the problem has not 
even been acknowledged by the adminis­
tration except for the excuses they offer. 
No one, for example, has proposed the idea of building a new dorm. Present enrollment demands more space before the number of students can be increased in the future. The problem with this obvious solution is time and money. Where is the money to come from? Will building a new dorm take too long? 
The alternative to building a new dorm is to convert a men's dorm for women, an alternative whichtakestime and money. It would also cause resentment among the men, not to mention more crowding in the remaining men's dorms. Some halls, such as Holy Cross, Carroll, and St. Joe, could be more efficiently utilized to accomodate some of the overflow. 
Housing has already curtailed the fears that the students will be lotteried off campus, but this should remain an alternative. Students remain on campus because of the high cost of living and the lack of off-campus housing. A University apartment complex may induce more students to live off-campus. 
All these proposed alternatives have drawbacks, but they must be investigated further. If the University fails to act at this time, they will be grossly neglecting their duties. Newly appointed director of housing Edmund Price has said, "I would like to spend more time talking to students about their problems." Overcrowding is the housing problem which demands top priority. 
Editorial Policy Addition 
Note from the Editor: If an necessity for making the name 

untyped, illegible letter has been public and It adds nothing to the 
sent. to the editor, it has not been letter; or if printing the name opens 
publ~shed. The editorial policy the person for criticism without 
spectfically states "All letters must proof of wrongdoing. · 
be typed." 
Policy addition: Names .will be The Observer may be held ac­withheld on letters only if countable for any opinion .It prints.
1[ By printing the name the author The purpose of this policy Is w may become subject to harass­discourage anonymous attacks on · ment. 
public or private persons. · H a21 The author's reputation may be person feels strongly enough to beunfairly judged because his name moved to express an opinion, he appears. 

should have no qualms aboutNames within a letter or column claiming the opinion as his own.

will be edited if there is no 
seriously folks 

My Partner, Uncle San1 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~~art buchwald 
WASHINGTON -Everyone who 
pays federal income taxes in this 
country has a partner he calls Uncle 
Sam. As time goes on. more and 
more people are getting disconten­
ted with the partnership. Take my 
neighbor Brandon. I met him at 
the post office on April 17 as he was 
posting his 1040 Form. 
He seemed disgusted. ''I just 
sent Uncle Sam his share of IllY 
earnings." he said. ''I'm telling 
you if I could get out of the 
partnership tomorrow I would." 
"Why?" I asked. "Isn't he a 
good partner?" 
"Are you kidding'! I went to sec 
him the other day and said. 'Sam. 
I'm not saying y(;u·'rc ch(·ating me. 
but do you mind if I look at the 
books?' 
"He got very angry becau~e I was questioning his management <•f lllf)' money. 'Don't you trust me'!' hl' 
wanted to know. 'Of cpursc. I tru~t 
you.' I told him, 'but a partner 
should be able to check the books. 
After all, you have a right to look at 
mine.· 
"So he took. out this big ledger and said. 'Here. I have nothing to hide.' 
"I opened the books and there was one item for $7 billion missing from HEW. 'What's this?' 
'"Fraud. Someone is stealing $7 billion from Health. Education and Welfare.' · 
'"That's a lot of money,' I said. So Sam replied, 'I cao't watch everybody. Sometimes a few billion dollars slip between the cracks. It can happen in any business.' 


Housing Situation in Dillon Hall 
dillon hall council 
An extremely unpleasant situation exists in Dillon Hall. As 
housing quotas have now been assigned for the 1978-79 school year, 
it is apparent that Dillon Hall will be overcrowded for the third time 
in as many years. A year has elapsed since concered residents 
pleaded with the Administration for increased social space and for a 
reasonable amount of residents. While the problem could have 
been alleviated during this past years, the same oppressive 
conditions exist. 
Unfortunately, freshmen bear the brunt of the overcrowding, but 
the necessity to maximize available space has also restricted in 
many instances. Many prospective sophomores as well as the entire 
freshman class will find themselves confronted by forced 
overcrowded rooms. Dillon residents tolerated the excesses for the 
first year, but crowding continued. Now a third year is more than 
unjust; it is ridiculous. 
Why, after three years does the university choose to ignore the basic needs of the students? It is not uncommon to find rooms designed for four students to be crowded with six residents.Hardly can such conditions be conducive to either a healthy social or academic atmosphere. The fact that incoming freshmen will initially be unaware of the inequitable situation does not make it correct, but naivity tends to harbor contentment. Dillon stands as by far the most crowded hall on campus in terms of boarders per room. The residents are not asking for a room and board rebate, rather less crowded conditions are desired. 
In terms of the existing social situation, Dillon Hall is additionally burdened. Certainly it is easy to be sympathetic with the plight of other halls that also find themseiYes overcrowded, but more so than other halls, Dillon is faced with a severe shortage of social, common and study space. Overcrowding contributes greatly to this problem, but additionally the problem is compounded by the fact that we also have a proportionately higher number of upperclassmen remaining on campus. next year. 
As the problem is perceived, this tends to manifest two distinct and significant harms. First a situation of overcrowding promotes Freshman maladjustments, in particular, it has magnified the. problems of Freshman acclimation to residential life. Secondly, the common study and recreational areas that Dillon so badly needs cannot materialize as long as the Hall is forced to .accomodate an unreasonable number of bodies. 
Comparatively, while other halls enjoy the. luxuries of parlors, kitchenettes, multiple study lounges and immense recreational areas, Dillon Hall is restricted to a small game room and its 390 residents are hampered by the space limitations of their single study area. These factors, combined with the totally inequitable distribution of overcrowded rooms among the halls on campus, have had an adverse effect on the quality of residential life, an objective to which the university is pledged. 
We hope to make the Administration aware of this major problem. We would also hope to enlist their efforts in the alleviation of a chaotic predicament which involves t"very Dillon Hall resident. Additionally we would hopethat the Student Government would be responsive to the situation in Dillon. Perhaps as openings may appear this summer, incoming Freshmen could be relocated to relieve the tension in Dillon. Or maybe other housing alternatives could be examined. In any event, the residents of Dillon Hall are willing to work in any direction that may resolve the present conditions. 
"I looked at another ttem.. 'How 
come.· I asked, 'these ships you 
ordered for the Navv now cost three 
times what we originally agreed to 
pay'?' 
"Sam looked innocent and then 
said. 'Oh yeah. I just remembered. 
We had to change all the plans 
after we gave the order. and then 
we didn't figure on intlation and 
the strikes. The shipbuilding 
company said it wouldn't continue 
the work unless we paid its extra 
cost~. Brandon. we need those 
ship~ and they had me by the 
throat. I was going to tell you 
about it. but it slipped my mind.' 
Brandon continued. "So I kept 
turning the pages for the ledger. 
'What·~ this item which says $10 
billion lor the Department of 
1-:ncrg~··'· Sam said. ·we need a 
lkparlmL'nl of Energy. You ag­
l'l'l'd •Ill it.. 
"'I didn'l know it would cost $10 
billion.· I told Sam. He said. 'Well. 
vou h;l\'l' tu have nice offices. and 
you h;l\ c 1o hire people to keep the 
paperwork ~lraight. and you need 
computers. A Ill'\\ Energy Depart­
ment doesn't cost peanuts. I swear 
I'm personally not making a dime 
on it. Some day you 'II consider it a 
bargain.· 
Brandon said, "Then I came 
across a billion-dollar deficit in the 
post office. • Sam.· I said. 'you told 
me if we allowed the post office to 
become a semi-public corporation it 
would be in the black. Now the 
deficit is worse than ever and the 
service is twice as bad.' Sam said, 
'So I spoke too fast. With the new 
rates, maybe next year ... ' 
"Now," Brandon told me, "I was really getting angry and I said, 'I'm your partner and you keep spend­ing my money like it was going out of style. I know it takes a large investment to run a big govern­ment, but if I kept books like this you'd throw me in jail. You want me to account for every penny, and you have billions of dollars in this ledger that don't even add up.' Sam shrugged his shoulders. 'Boo­kkeeping isn't my strong point. I'm much better posing for posters for the Army that say, "I want you!" 
I walked Brandon to his car and he finished his story. '• So I finally said, 'Sam, I don't want to be partners with you. I'm better on my own." 
"What did he say?" I asked. 
"He was crestfallen and said, 'But, Brandon, I couldn't go on without you. As it stands now even after I get your check, we'll still be $60 billion in the hole. Just give me a few more years, and I promise you the books will balance down to the last nickel."' 
"And yo~ bought it?" I asked my friend. 
Brandon said, "What choice did I have? With my business, where am I going to find another part­ner?" 
(c) 1978, Los Angeles Times syndicate 


Women's 
Sports 

Coverage 
Dear Editor: 
I am forced at this time to respond to the letter from nine Women's Bookstore Players who 
admonished the Observer for its 
lack of coverage of their . tourney Though I feel it would be best settled privately, the ladies in question chose to criticize the sports staff on the public level, and I must, in all fairness, respond in kind--and ultimately more ration­ally, I might add. 
Firstly, I agree with the fact that the tournament should be covered. In fact, since I've been Associate Sports Editor--indeed, ever since I've worked here, I have never refused to cover or print releases of any women's event, at Saint Mary's or Notre Dame. I repeat: NEVER have I refused, nor has anyone to my knowledge. 
To be truthful. despite the fact that you feel the Women's Tourney is of equal Importance and inte­rest as the Men's, no one on the sports staff (and no one else I've talked to about it, including some girls) even knew the Women'~ Bookstore Tournament was being held. No one made any attempt to inform us, either. 
If you girls had been concerned enough to go through the proper channels, you might have first asked your tournament director to inform us of the proceedings, and provide us with a schedule. If that didn't work, you might have called me or anyone else on the sports staff and informed us of the tournament, or written us a letter. Instead, you chose to let it ride until now, with the tournament nearly over. 
As for further coverage, I'm afraid that any complaints about the articles will be unwarranted. Since I took the initiative (if I hadn't calle, I would still be uninformed) and called Betsy Steitz for the results, I've found that the only statistic kept for the games is the final score. 
Incidently, the quality of play had nothing whatsoever to do with what we print. Even if the girls weren't playing with "the intensity ,enthusiasm, and ability as the men" we would still write up your games with the fairness we have always tried to show. 
Greg Sollman 
Superstar 

Syndromle 
Editor's note: The following letter iis a complaint about the 1977-78 Oome. A copy has been sent to Mr. Young. 
Dear Mr. Young, 
Whenever one thinks of the essence of Notre Dame, one word immediately comes to mind: class. Every facet of existence here at Notre Dame is viewed by most of the people outside our "family" as being very classy. It is something we all take great pride in. However, it is evident that your staff does not fit into this category. 
When I received my yearbook yesterday, the first page I happen­ed to turn to was the color spread which opens up the basketball section. As I looked at the pictures of Williams, Batton and Carpenter, I wa~ overc~me by a sickening questiOn, wh1ch I will now share with you. "Where was Randy Haefner's picture?" It seems to !fl~ t?at you did him a great ITIJU~tlce by leaving him out of your sectwn. True, Haef might not have been a star, or even a regular but he did .Play four years ;s a scho1arsh.IP ~thlete on the varsity

?ere, which Is an achievement in 
Itself. Just ask any member of the 
basketball team, and they will all 
say the same thing about Randy 
that he meant as much to the tea~ 
as. the "stars." 
Mr Youn h 
his b~ck forgfo:r en a guy :r~aks 
not even get hi'sye~rst, an. oh~s 
pic ure m 1s
senior yearbook som th · . viously wrong (e~pecia~ly ~~e~ t~~; yearbook reserves four a es for it 
own staff including a tuiig f s 
· . ' page or 
1ts .editor). Your yearbook is a typical example of the "superstar syndrome'' existing here at ND where the stars are idolized, and the hell with everyone else. 
This year, I was hoping that the yearbook staff would give Haef a break. He certainly never got one from Digger. 
'ltev'! Sonnick 


Sophomore Slump 
Michael Bozik 
When I returned to Notre Dame this past January for my fourth semester at du Lac. I encountered that oft-mentioned but seldom understood, spector-the Sophomore Slump. It can occur for as many reasons as there are sophomores. As I reflected on the conditions surrounding my "slump", however, I began to realize that the slump is not all-together an isolated, individualistic phenomena; by the middle of is or her sophomore year, a student at 
N.D. has begun to question in what direction his education is taking him. A sophomore begins to seriously reflect, perhaps for the first time, on what the purpose of his education is and what exactly he wants his education to provide him with. 
Over the semester break. I participated in the Urban Plunge program sponsored by Notre Dame and the Catholic Committee on Urban Mini~try. The Plunge focused, in an experiential way, on many of the questions of Christian and social responsibility raised theoretically in my first two years at Notre Dame. When I returned to campus at the beginning of this semester, the spector of the "slump" approached, and, staring directly at me, asked how in the world my education could possibly help me solve these great problems of "life." 
I quickly decided that many of the problems could not, in fact, by answered within the context of a strictly ''academic'' environment. At least not at the educational stage I found myself at. I realized the tremendous importance of my education at N.D., but I also felt the need to gain a new perspective on that education. I wanted to take some time off from school, but I also wanted that the time be constructive. I did not just want to "blow off" a semester or two. 
In talking to my friends, I discovered that many of them shared similar questions about their education; that they too had felt the need to get a new perspective on school and had considered ''taking off.'' So I began to wonder if this phenomena was a regular occurrence among students at du Lac. Notre Dame does indeed provi?e cours.es and programs which challenge students to carefully examme their personal and religipus values. At times this challenge can only be met outside of the university environment -in volunteer service in South Bend, or perhaps through some type of volunteer service in a summer project. 
In many cases, however, extra-curricular work or even summer work is no adequate to meet the challenge. A student often needs to ~pend an e~~ended peri~d of time away from the schooling 
atmosphere engaged m some type of field experience or community service activity. In this context, he or she may examine, through actual experience, those V"lues which have been challenged in the first two years at Notn Dame. Upon returning to du Lac, not only would the student benefit from his enriched perspective, but the entire academic communitv would learn from his experience as well. · 
However, we are all caught up in the "four straight years" ethos that frowns upon, or at least does not encourage, spending a semester or two away from school. The university offers no programs whereby a student could spend time away from N.D. in a 
volunteer activity to extend and integrate his thinking and personal values. Any type of experiment with alternative methods of learning are left strictly to the individual. 
Admitte?ly, t~king time off from school is not feasible for many stude~ts (f~n~ncial rea~ons, specific curriculum, etc.). And perhaps 
, I am 1magmmg a des1re that does not even exist among students here; perhaps Notre Dame does provide a complete enough context for the student to examine those values which his education challenges. Nonet~eles.~, I think we could all benefit by asking • ourselves the questiOn, Why four straight years?" 
Midnight 

Raiders 
Dear Editor: The An Tostal activities reflect a 
· 
desire within the St. Mary's-Notre J?ame Community to have a good time and to participate in various events. M_ost people agree that its great to wm but, as the old sayin.g goes, h~w you play the game Is equally Important. Last week witnessed an.: An Tostal produc­tion of "Girls Bookstore Basket-
b 11 " Th' 
a · Is was a take-off on the 
, ever-popular Bookstore Basketball at ~otre Dame an<;~ ":as tak~n veryser~ously by a maJonty of young
ladies." 
During the tournament, a parti­cular team named the Midnight Raiders, impressed me immensely. The team consisted of five gi~ls from St. Mary's who wanted to win, but at the same time, played fot the fun of it. Dressed in matching outfits, the Midnight Raiders ran onto the court to the theme song from "Rocky". Every­one got a chuckle out of these girls who livened up the first round astion. It appeared to me that a team of friends that had such fun running around the court couldn't possibly be good, but I was wrong. The Midnight Raiders played ag­gressively, never gave up, and wen their first game against a \\ cll coached team called Fou1 Corners­no offense. The Midnight Raiders exemplified a unique amount of courtesy and respect !oward each oth~r and retained their femininity durmg all of their battles. Th~y were, by no means, die-hard basketball jocks and had a little trouble with double dribbles and traveling calls. 
Other teams I had witnessed played like the games were live or die situations. These girls had drills and pass patterns, which are impressive, but they lacked the enthusiasm that the Midnight Ra!ders displayed. The Midnight 
, Raiders played out of their league in the second round -and lost. None the less, the game was a pleasure to watch and it had some exciting moments. The Midnight Raiders lost in the beginning rounds but their spirit won from the start. 
Mary Murphy 

~ ::J co C/) LU z 0 0 0  THE3 HE3LL we Af<El ""'"  HUH?  YOUR. PRAY£R.5 HAVE BEEN AN5WEREO, BOBBY BOY! GUESS WHO JUST SIGNED WITH YOURS TRJJLY? '\  390 lBS. OF STEAMING SAMOAN/ OUR. FRDNT FOUR PfWBLEMS /IRE OVeR! \ OH, ANO KEEP AN g.(E PEELED FOIZ "LAVA -LAv.4"/£:11/NY. H£35 f)(Jf3. IN FROM THE AIRPO!<T \ 1/N'i M!N(JTE.  BARIENDER! CHAMf¥16Nf. FOR. f3VE3R.YONE3 ON MR. /AJIUIAMS.' I  





Final Fiction 
" ... he will construct funhouses for other and be their secret operator--though he would rather be among the lovers for whom thev are constructed. 
Billy Herald sat in a *small, dilapidated bar at the corner of 15th and Larimer in Denver. Colorado, on Memorial Day, 1976, and wrote these words on a yellow pad of paper: 
Little Brzhob sat mesmerized at the television, bouncing lightly on his Wild 
West Lowboy rocking horse It was almost lunchtime on a Saturday, Little Brzhob had had his ('ight bowls of sugar frosted flakes, and was now watching ''Romper Room." The two little boys and girls on "Romper l{oom" were playing with a toy Little Hrzhob wanted very much to play with himself. The toy was a small-scale model .,f a town, complete with a smalr farm, tr•.·cs, a railroad, trimmed bushes, build­ings, sidewalks:, a bank, cars, a police ~tation, a jail. signs, fences. a community pool. and fake green grass everywhere. The teacher was talking about safety while 1he kids were allowed to do whatever they wanted with the small pieces of the town. Little Brzhob felt anxious watching them play. "Mommy," he called. "I wanna go in there and play with the toy. Can I go in, pk:1sc?" 
His mother was sitting on a sofa nearby. sewing. She laughed at Little Brzhob's requc~t. "No, honey," she said. "You can't ~et in the TV. The people aren't in the T\'." 
lillie ;.,rzhob was befuddled. Not in the IV'! Where, then? He decided this was another of th·~ fibs his mother used to keep him from having too much fun. There would be little use arguing. His gaze returned to the television. 
"Romper Room" had disappeared. Other little boys and girls filled the screen. They had strange fat stomachs, and bones showing through their skin. Little Brzhob ~aw them wandering about naked in a backyard of mud and junkpiles, tigured they were playing some sort of tag game. He wondered who was "IT." 
s came, was wearmg and Little Brzhob couldn't bring himself to wreck it with the water. So he slunk away through the bushes, embarrassed. Riding along on his bike, Little Brzhob held an image of Shellv's prettv face in his mmd, 

and honked his shiny new bicycle horn. Little Brzhob had gotten the horn as a surprise. His father brought it home after work one day, strapped it on Little Brzhob's bike, and said, "Take care of that, son, and it'll last you a good long time." Then he honked it for emphasis-­BLEEBLURP! BLEEBLURP! Little Brzhob had it for two weeks before he ran into the bullies from down the block. The bullies from down the block were a bunch of older boys who often gave Little Brzhob trouble. They said that he was a smartass, and that they didn't like smart­asses. Little Brzhob saw them at a distance as he pedaled along dreaming, and noticed Shelly standing around near them. One of the bullies seemed to be pushing her. Little Brzhob forgot his dream and pedaled hard towards the bullies. He honked his horn repeatedly--BLEEBLURP! BLEEB BLURP! BLEEBLURP! 
moving away trom the house, saying something Little Brzhob couldn't hear. He wheeled a bicycle alongside himself, occasionally rapping it with a large screwdriver. Little Brzhob noticed that the bicycle looked like his own, except that the rear wheel was bent out of shape, the chain was dragging, and the handlebars were without a horn. His mother continued to plead with the man to forget something, telling him that he "didn't have to " do something, while the man pushed the bike on, tapping the screwdriver and shaking his head. 
Little Brzhob's mother came into the dining room, upset it seemed to Little Brzhob. "Some people just don't know when to stop," she said to herself. She saw Little Brzhob standing there and asked him if his eye was alright. 
"What happened, mommy?" he said. "Who was that man?" 
Little Brzhob's mother looked more upset. 
"That was Mr. Librettoni, dear. He's going to tix vour bike." 
"You mean Donny's dad? Donny and them guys beat me up, mommy! Where's he taking my bike-I want my bike!" 

AT THE DENVER HIDEOUT : 
Shelly l.tughed. "Did you really think you 
could beat up all them guys? You probably 
could--in a dream!" She laughed louder. 
Little Brzhob stood speechless, his gaping 
eyes on her face. 
"Dumb little kid." She pointed and 
laughed again, then quieted suddenly, 
noticing something. "Hey, you've got a 
black eye." The taunting look left her face. 
"That's too bad." 
Little Brzhob felt a sudden thrill rush 
through him, and went dizzy as though 
he'd fall right off the screen. He wanted to 
say something. He was afraid. "1--1 
really---·· 
"What,kid? You really think you're a hero?" 
Little Brzhob winced, reached for the screen door knob. He pushed the door slightly open as he muttered, "I really--1 really like you." 
Shelly's face went red. She jumped foreward and kicked the door. It smashed Little Brzhob squarely between the legs, and he reeled back onto the vestibule floor, crying. Shelly backed slowly off the porch and grabbed her bike. "Sorry," she said. "I had to do that. You leave me alone." 
Crying Little Brzhob's face twisted into a funny knot. Had to do it? 
Shelly pedaled off down the street. Little Brzhob watched her through tears and screen. He lie on the vestibule floor, breathing hard, rubbing his stomach. The pain was going. He thought of how pretty she had looked up close. He remembered his bike--he would have it again, good as new, in three days. He could ride again, dream. As the pain in his abdomen ebbed away, Little Brzhob felt a strange, distant love for Mr. Librettoni, a sudden gladness tickling the insides of his throat and chest, as though he wanted Mr. Librettoni to take him on his lap and tell him a story. At the same time, he knew somehow that this would never happen. 
Bigger Brzhob stood in the soft orange and purple dusk of the South Dakota Badlands and tried to decide whether to go in the men's room and use the 1000-watt hair dryer he'd absent-mindedly tucked inside his clean green, one hundred-and­eighteen dollar. eight-compartment Kelty backpack, or to just let the smooth invisible singing American wind blow his hair dry while he stood with noble eyes and awestruck smile staring at the crumbling gravel paradise lying silent and enormous in the miles surrounding him. 
----------------------------~ 
t~~~eo~t~~·~o~:~~~e:ir~;~~tsi~~~~iha~~ Bl'll~ Herald meets Brz'Aob
clothes on? And why are they so fat in the 
rI 

tummies and the rest of 'em so skinny?" "Those children are honey. They 
·······················································-~
poor,
His mother was busy threading a needle.
don't have much to wear or to eat." 
"Why don't we give 'em stuff to wear or 
to eat, Mommy?'' 
She was still trying to poke the thread 
through the needlehole. "Sometimes we 
do, honey. Daddy sends them money." 
"He better send more, Mommy." 
His mother didn't answer. "Mommy!" 
His mother looked up. "No, honey," she 
said. "Daddy sends enough." She looked back to her work. The thread went through the hole. "We don't have to go to extremes." 
Extremes? Little Brzhob wondered what those were. Another fib? Little Brzhob looked at the television. The wrinkled, tossing .1ead of a screaming baby was on the screen. A man was talking with big words. Little Brzhob winced. He changed the channel. "Gilligan's Island" was on. Seeing this made Little Brzhob feel better, but he did11't want to watch this episode. He'd seen it before, and knew that Gilligan would again frustrate the castaways' attempts to leave the island. He changed the channel. A baseball game appeared just as a player was sliding into second base. The umpire careened into view, his 

spread wide--"Safe!" Little BrzhOb 
was tired of watching tele­
He got off his horse, shut off the 
and started for the back door. ''I'm 
na go ride my bike, Mom." She didn't 
him. 
Little Brzhob rode along in the summer sunshine and dreamt of the girl from down the block, Shelly. He liked to just ride along in the breeze, free, and forget everything but Shelly's pretty face. He didn't understand why he liked Shelly. She was older than him, she never talked to him, and she was even almost bigger than him. His friends · told him not to like girls, and he found it easy not to like most girls, but Shelly was different somehow, so p.retty. Little Brzhob tried not to like her--once he even hid in the bushes by her house with,_ a ~arden hose, planning to spray her when 
came home from Hrownies. Hut when 
"Here comes that little smartass Brz­
hob," said one of the bullies, "with that 
goddam horn." 
Little Brzhob skidded to a stop where the 
bullies were standing--BLEEBLURP! "I 
saw one of you guys pushing that girl." 
The buliies all laughed. "So whai, 
smartass? You come down here to save 
her? Think you're Superman, Smartass?" 
The other bullies roared with laughter, and 
one grabbed Shelly by the arm. She 
squealed, and the bully pushed her roughly 
foreward. "We'll do whatever we want 
with this bitch," he said. 
BLEEBLURP! Little Brzhob gripped his 
handlebars tightly and said, "Cut it 
out--she's a girl!" 
"Damn right, smartass. You're pretty 
damn smart for a smartass, y'know?" 
"You better just shut up!" said Little 
Brzhob. BLEEBLURP! 
"No--you better shut up, punk! And you better shut up that god dam horn too"·· BLEEBLURP!--I'm sicka hearin' it!" 
BLEEBLURP "That's tough." 
The bullies closedln around him, five of 
them. The leader, Donny, spoke: "I dare 
you to honk that thing just one more time." 
"I don't have to do what you say," said Little Brzhob. "I can do anything I want." "Just one more time," said the leader. "Go ahead, smartass." 
Little Brzhob looked around at the silent, anxious faces. He saw Shelly standing off to the side, saying nothing, afraid. Her face was pretty as ever. He felt a. slight grin come to his mouth. He looked Donny in the eye and stood up on the bicycle pedals. BLEEBLURP! 
Little Brzhob awoke with a startle in his mother's bed, knocking an icepack to the floor. His eye ached. He could hear his mother talking loudly in another part of the house, though he couldn't make out what she was saying. He climbed out of bed and walked into the dining room. where, from behind, he could see his mother leaning out the front door shouting at a strange man. "No, no, no--you don't have to do that," she was saying. "Forget it." The man was 
"Honey, it's broken. Those boys smash­ed it all up when they beat you up." She was silent a moment, pondering. "You don't remember? .. 
"Just them beating me up," said Little Brzhob. His mother went into the kitchen. Rummaging cupboard:;, gathering things for dinner, she explained how Little Brzhob had been knocked unconscious by the bullies, his bicycle wrecked, and him brought home by Donny, who then went home to receive a terrible whipping from his father. Mr. Librettoni had heard about the incident from an old lady who'd watched it from her bedroom window. He punished his own boy before coming to Little Brzhob's house insisting that he be given the bike, to make repairs himself. Little Brzhob's mother had thought him a crazy man, had tried to convince him that this was really unimportant, something that happened every day, and that he should forget it. 
"Do you know Mr. Librettoni?" Little Brzhob asked. 
"Not too well," his mother answered. She was peering into the refrigerator. She laughed. "A funny guy." 
"A funny guy, mommy?" 
"Well." she said. She reached up to a high shelf for a bag of sugar. "He didn't have to make such a big deal out of this. Some people are always taking things to such extremes.'' 
Extremes again--Little Brzhob didn't know what to say. He thought Mr. Librettoni had done something right. "My eve hurts, mom." She came over and kissed him on the eye. 
"There,'' she said. ~"that's better. Now go on out and play." He went to the front door and pressed his face against the screen. Shelly was riding 
, by the house. She stopped when she saw Little Brzhob, and began walking her bike to his f10nt door. Little Brzhob froze, unable 1o move or speak. The pretty face moved closer; Little Brzhob began to sweat. Shelly was standing on the porch. "Hi," she said. "You were pretty funny down there today." 
Brzhob decided not to spoil the day. He chose to stand still while the wind of America blew through him. 
Bigger Brzhob had come to the Badlands for a reason. It had something to do with ridding himself of psychological encum­brances created by Flint, Michigan, his parents, his brothers and sisters, friends, enemies, the milkman, Neil the landscap­er, coaches. teachers, nuns, relatives, and anyone or anything or anyplace he felt had by now established even a slight psycho­logical grip on him, a grip like a tugging at one sleeve to make him do this or not do that, to make him see this or not see that, to make him choose one over another without his ever being totally aware of exactly how he was choosing. He came to the Badlands to forget his house, forget those people, forget Flint, stop loving those things and people he'd become so attached to since infancy, those things and people who exerted so much control over his existancc. Forget love to find self, to grasp freedom. 
That's what Bigger Brzhob told his best buddy Wolfman two weeks prior to his departure for the Badlands. They sat in a Flint bar and drank gallons of beer while Brzhob raved louder every minute about the trip they were going to make, a glorious one-month trek through the midwest and up into South Dakota. the Badlands and the Black Hills. They would dig all the beauty, and rap all night, laugh when the sun rose, laugh when it set. Just be alive. man, forget everything and everyone gone before you--forget love to find self, to grasp freedom. Woltie listened with somber nods and smiles, sipping his beer and getting drunk, finally glowing about how great and wonderful it would be, and how he couldn't wait to go. 
Then there was the fight, a crazed greaser going after a small, chubby man in a softball uniform. BTLhob and Woltie watched the destruction of the softball drinker's nose as affected by a swooping pool stick and a broken pitcher handle. 

page 131 



, r~ ·" r. V; rJit1 I. 

,., 
............................................................................................................................. 
Ironically very few students have any knowledge of the one common organization in which they may find themselves members withing the near future. This organization, which binds together the 58,000 graduates of the University of Notre Dame is its Alumni Association. Unfortunately the only contact that most students have with alumni is on football weekends. But the Alumni provide several key services for the University, some directly affecting the students. The purpose of this supplement is to acquaint the students with some of the important members of the Association and to draw attention to the Alumni Senate which will be convening on campus this weekend . 
Alumni Board 



Officers 

Joseph B. McGlynn, Jr., '55 
Joseph B. McGlynn, Jr., Presi­dent of the Notre Dame Alumni Association, is an Attorney at Law and partner in the firm of McGlynn and McGlynn in Belleville, Illinois. He received his Bachelor of Arts in Economics from Notre Dame in 1955 and his Doctor of Law Degree from the St. Louis University School of Law in 1958. McGlynn received the Notre Dame Man-of­the-Year Award in 1971 and was elected to the Alumni Association's Board of Directors in 1975. 

Robert E. Dowd, '41 
Robert E. Dowd Sr., a 1941 graduate and honorary President of the Alumni Association, is the Vice-President of Mueller Electric Company and an Attorney in Cleveland, Ohio. Previously he has served as President on the Board and President of the Notre Dame Club of Cleveland. A former Notre Dame Man of the Year in Cleve­land, Dowd's son Thomas is pre­sently a junior at Notre Dame . 
_ 
Alumni Senate to convene, Senior picnic Saturday 
by Mike lewis News Editor 
The Notre Dame Alumni Association is sponsoring a Senior-Alumni picnic in Stepan Center this Saturday. Representatives from the 128 ND Alumni clubs will be present to talk informally with seniors and distribute information about housing, businesses and other aspects of various areas of the country. 
Patty Dondanville, former Student Government representative to the Alumni, said the event is "the kick off effort" in the alumni's attempt to help ND students. 
"The idea behind the picnic is that the Alumni Association no longer wants the students to see Alumni as people who come back to football games to be rah-rahs," she said. 
Dondanville added that the Association is "very interested in helping the students when they're away from campus or graduating from school." She added that seniors will soon be moving into unfamiliar areas of the country, and "the ND club of that city can give you information and help you get established in the community." 
"The whole idea of the picnic is to start getting the alumni more involved with the students," she said, adding that the Association is planning other activities in the near future, such as career nights. 
The Association is led by its Executive Director, John Cackley, and Assistant Director Timothy Truesdale, both of whom hav~ offices in the Administration Building. 
Officially founded in the 1920's, the Associa­tion is comprised of 58,000 men and women, and is growing at the rate of 2,000 members a year. 
The Association's objective, according to the constitution, is "to preserve and strengthen the 
common ties that bind us to each other and to our alma mater, by means of yearly reunions and by literary correspondence." 
However, the alumni are· taking an increasing role in dealing directily with students. At the Association's Board of Directors meeting last September, the Student-Alumni Relations Group 
(SARG) was formed to "enhance student-alumni " 1'Associatior) is chosen from among the third year 
opportunity for help in job placenwnt and familiarization with Alumni Clu1)s rn a particular student's region." 
Dondanville corresponded with tf,,. mPrnbers of the Alumni Association's Boaro nt llrrectors during her tenure as representatr\ ,, ')h(" wrote a monthly newsletter to the direct<;r,. a~~mg for comments on student activities and input into certain projects. 
She defined her role at the Board'~ Septemb;•• meeting as "a liaison between the board and th• students." She said the alumni helpt'd finanr · the homecoming dance, and had met wr•h representatives from some club sports in Jam. ary. She noted that the board "tries to help finance activities they think are worthwhile and that need money." 
The Association holds the charter for the Senior Alumni •Club, and formally the management "" the club. It is also active in the negc.ti<! ... athletic tickets for alumni and m.;:r •;· ~ th"' university club, Dondanville said. Jrn, fa\ette '42 and Jim Hennessey ''i1 are e<;:JeCially involved with the problems and man."·. <>rnent of the Senior-Alumni Club 
Alumni are also acLve in other areas. The Law ­School Alumni Association was recently able to place over 75 percent of its graduates in jobs throughout the country, John Moran '59 said. He continued, "this success is the direct result of contacts through the Notre Dame Alumni Family." 
Moran added that Association President Joe 
McGlynn '55 was involved in the recent donation 
of over $l million given the University by the Ancient Orde of Hibernians. Other board 
e b h H p ·d t B b D d 
m m ers, sue as onorary res1 en o ow 
'41 and Tony Earley '44 and '47, are active in both 
:~ndent recruitment and placement after gradua-
The Association elects its Board of Directors in annual national elections. The elections are every three years, with one third of the board up for ·election each ye;1r. The President of the 
relationships." 
At that meeting the alumni also spoke of the difficulties of increasing minority enrollment at the University, and started plans for the Senior-Alumni picnic. 
James Hunt, chairman of SARG, said at the meeting, ''the directors are Concerned with better promoting the association between students and alumni. We have to make ourselves more visible to the student body, and let them know we're here." Hunt noted that the picnic, "is an members, 

Both the President and outgoing PrPsH1ent of the Association's Board of Directors are mf'mbers of the University's Board of Trustees, and help to provide a continuity of input and information for both the alumni and the trustees. 
In addition, the Association has a staff of field representatives, secretaries and office personnel who help in organizing and executing the Association's programs. 
Saturday May6 
.•. > .
:···.. :. ··:·:··:.::..: .



FREE ··.>E'···REE BEER HOTDOGS 

...·.··...;.. 
.• 
-





Association Directors 


A 1937 graduate, John N. Cack­Timothy L. Truesdell, a 1974ley has been the executive director graduate, is an assistant director ofof the Alumni Association since the University's Alumni Associa­1975. From 1947 to 1961, Cackley tion. A native of Niles, Michigan,assisted James E. Armstrong, exe­Truesdell attended the Universitycutive secretary of the Alumni of Missouri's Journalism School forAssociation, in virtually every facet one year before majoring in Ameri­of the office, including five years as can Studies at Notre Dame.
managing editor of the Notre Dame Alumnus and twelve years as editor of a sister publication, Notre Dame. Cackley has held other development positions at Farleigh 

""'·­
Dickinson University, Rensselaer 
.......•'"'
Polytechnic Institute, Georgian Court College and Allentown Col­lege of St. Francis de Sales. 
' 
RepresentiMg Region 4 is Robert 
Anthony F. Earley, representing
E. Clemency, _5r., a 1951 graduate Region 10 is the president of Chave 
from Milwaukee, Wisconsin. & Earley, Inc., a textile convertingClemency is an attorney and part­firm. A 1947 graduate, Earley is ner in the firm of Michael, Best and past president of the Notre Dame Friedrich. He is a past president of Club of New York and currently a the Notre Dame Club of Milwaukee 
member of the National Alumni and has served as chairman of Schools Committee AdvisoryUniversal Notre Dame Night for Board. three years. He is a member of the Milwaukee and Chlcago Patent .-Law Associations as well as the American Bar Association. 
Anthony F. Earley, '47 Serving as at-large representa­
John P. Moran, a 1959 graduate, tive is Michael J. McCurdy, a is an attorney with the firm of doctoral student in accounting. As Moran and Donovan in Phoenix, 
an undergraduate. McCurdy 
, Arizona. He is a past president of served as treasurer of his senior the Notre Dame Club of Phoenix 
class in addition to accounting and has held all other elective 
duties on the Dome, the student offices within the club. He is a 
yearbook He was an active memver of the St. Thomas More 
member of the Notre Dame Club of Society, the Phoenix ZoologicalDallas and participated in the Society and serves on the board of Alumni Schools Committee pro-directors of the National Council on 
gram. He also served two years as Alcoholism. 
as staff accountant for the Dallas office of Ernst and Ernst. 
James N. Motschall, represent­ing Region 7, is the President of the James Motschall Printing Corpora­tion in Detroit, Michigan. He has been either an officer or director of the Notre Dame Club of Detroit since his graduation from Notre Dame in 1939. Motschall served as president of his club in 1951, and received the Notre Dame Man-of­the-Year Award in 1971. He has also served as President of the Class of 1939. 


UJIZ 
.. 




VIL 

... 
'" 



------------~-------~-­



Directors, cont. 





William D. Reynolds, '54 
Thomas J. McCusker, '65 
__...,. 
'. 
J. Haskell Askew, President of Askew Associates (oil and gas drilling consultants) is of the class of '31. Haskell is past president of · the Notre Dame club of Oklahoma City and served as chairman of the 
, club's Universal Notre Dame Night for two years. He is a member of the Oklahoma City Planning Board of Adjustments and the Citizens Committee on Water Resources. 
Real Estate broker Paul Hudak, class of '51, is a former president of the Notre Dame Club of Pittsbur~h 
and  served  as  chairman  of  the  
Summa inaugural banquet.  Hudak  
is  also  a  member  of  the  Parent  

Teacher Guild and the St. Scholas­tica Church Council in Pittsburgh 
Representing Region 6 on the Board, William D. Reynolds is Vice President of both the Independent Mechanical Industries, Incorpor­ated and the Independent Realty and Management Company in Chi­cago, Illinois. A 1954 Business Administration graduate, Reynolds is the President of the Notre Dame Alumni Club of Chicago's Scholar­ship Foundation. He is also a past president of the club and was elected Man of the Year .in 1978. 
Thomas j . McCusker, an Attorney and partner in an Omaha law firm, is the board's representative from Region 2. A 1965 graduate, McCusker is President of the Notre Dame Club of Omaha--Council Bluffs. He also is a Director of the College World Series. 

lee I. Piovarcy, '63 
i 


James C. Hennessy, '51 

J 
Patricia jo Perkovich, '73 

A 1963 graduate, Lee L. Piovarcy is an attorney with the firm of Martin, Tate, Morrow and Mars­ton. Piovarcy is past president of the Notre Dame Club of Memphis and current chaHrman of the Alumni Schools Committee. He is a member of the Tennessee Bar Association, state chairman of the Committee on Public Relations and former state treasurer of the Knights of Columbus. He also serves on the Committee for Disci­line and Ethics of the Shelby County Bar Association. 
James Hennessy, class of '51, is an insurance broker with the firm of Hennessy, Carrico, Gates, Inc. Hennessy is a past president and former director of the Notre Dame club of Kentucky. A member of the Insurance Advisory Committee and the National Association of Casual­ty and Surety Agents, he also serves on the board of directors of the Louisville Actors Theatre. 
Patricia Perkovich, class of '73, is an employee plans specialist for the Internal Revenue Service. She currently serves on the board of directors of the Notre Dame Club of Lost Angeles and is a member of the alumni schools committee. Perkovich has been involved in many activities in the Los Angeles area, including membership in the International Toastmistress Club and service on the editorial board of the IRS newspaper. 
William H. Sherman, class of '49 is a past president of the Notre Dame Club of San Francisco. An instructor to several professional organizations and founder of the William Sherman Company, Sher­man has also served as an officer of 
his  parish council,  Marin  Aid  to  
Retarded Children,  and  the  area  
Little League.  






Directors 


Robert F. Chickey, the Region 5 representative, is President and Chief Executive Officer of Schroeder & Curry, Incorporat­ed. A past president of The Notre Dame Club of St. Louis, Chickey was a Man of the Year recipient in 1969. He has also served on the SUMMA Fund Committee. 
Anthony Mileto, the President of Professional Design Associ­ates, Incorporated, and a practic­ing architect, is the board's representative for Region 12. Mileto is a past president of the Notre Dame Club of Baltimore and an N.D. Man of the Year recipient. He is also active in the summer program community theatrical group. 


A 1962 graduate, George D. Williams is the President of Williamsburg Company, Incor­porated. The new representative for Region 11 has served as President of the Notre Dame Club of Boston and currently serves as chairman of the club's Board of Trustees. A member of the Massachusetts Bay Transpor­tation Authority Advisory Coun­
cil, George is also  chairman  of  
the  Town  of  Norwell  Board  of  
Selectmen.  

Frank T. Callahan, Jr., a 1950 graduate, is President of Greiner Engineering Sciences, Incorpor­ated and the board's representa­tive from Region 15. A member of the Greater Tampa Chamber of Commerence, Callahan is the Vice President of the Hills­borough County Easter Seal So­ciety and a past president of the Notre Dame Club of Florida West Coast. 

The new At-large representa­tive is Gregory K. Ericksen of 
Patrick W. Kitteredge, '58 James H. Hunt, Jr., 73
Indianapolis, Indiana. The 1975 graduate is a public accountant 
Patrick W. Kittredge, represent­James H. Hunt, Jr., a free-lance with the firm of Arthur Young 
ing Region 12, is an attorney and photographer from Pierre, South and Company. Ericksen has 
instructor at Temple University Dakota, serves as at-large repre­coordinated various activities for 
School of Law. A 1958 graduate, sentative. A 1973 graduate with a the Notre Dame Club of Indian­
Kittredge is past president of the degree in business administration, apolis. 
Notre Dame Club of Philadelphia Hunt was senior class president and served on the board of direc­and photo editor of all student 
Charles l. Grace, '57 tors for 12 years. He was a publications at Notre Dame. He candidate for the House of Repre­was also editor of the DOME, the 
Representing Region 15 is sentatives. He is a member of the student yearbook, and a member of Charles L. Grace, President and board of governors of the Philadel­the Business Advisory Council. owner of Cumming Carolinas, Inc. phia Bar Association, the American Hunt received a photography de­of Charlotte, North Carolina. A Judicature Society and a former gree from the Rochester Institute of 1957 graduate with a bachelor of member of the Temple University Technology and joined the State science degree, Grace is a former Law Alumni Executive Committe. Department in 1975. president of the Notre Dame Club of North Carolina. He is respon­sible for the organization of the 
J. Philip Clarke, M.D., '44
Notre Dame Club of the Carolinas. James J. Fayette, '42 He is also a member of the Young 
J. Philip Clarke, M.D. of Denver,
Presidents Organization, the North James J. Fayette, representing
Colorado represents Region 2. 
Carolina Motor Carriers Associa­Region 11, is President of Vermont
Clarke, an_ internal medicine spe­
tion and the Charlotte Chamber of Fruit and Grocery Company, Clic­
cialist and charter member of the 
Commerce. quot Club and Royal Crown Bottl­
Denver Clinic, is past president of ing Companies. A 1942 graduate,the Notre Dame Club of Denver Fayette is director of the Notreand was first vice-president of the Dame Club of Vermont, presidentSerra Club. He is a member of the of the Vermont Bottlers Association task force on health care delivery of
alumni senior picnic 78 and founding cochairman of the
the Denver Medical Society and a World Business Council, Inc.
delegate to the Colorado Medical
(Rrst Annual) 
Society.
Stepan 
Center saturday may &h 
11 mn-1:30 pm rome oorly , sta:r lale! lxifore blue (i{reen) pold game 
, Meet the NO alumni Club Reps from your post-graduation city. , Maps, housing advice and business sense for each Club City will be available , Bring ideas of what you want your Alumni Association to be and do. , The Alurmi came from all over the muntry to meet you --be there I 
.fme beer and! brautmust prorided by the alumni assn. 
Volleyball games, more beer and more talk at the Senior Bar after the Game. Start Senior Week ear1y. 
·--·----------. --·­



~-~----~~~~~--~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-~ 

---------------. l 
They watched blood drip onto the floor as the greaser applied motorcycle boot finish­ing touches to the man's ribs and side of the head. They hung quietly in the shadow of their booth until the greaser had finished, then slipped out the back door, Brzhob repeating "Man, what the hell could we have done?" six times on the way to the car. Wolfman was silent, pale, stunned. giving no answers, when Brzhob changed the subject to new bars, a new place to drink and rap. ''Let's go'' he said, and Wolfman followed in a dull, suddenly­undrunk trance, mumbling "yes" and "cool" and "I'm hip" to Brzhob's now­pleading exhortations concerning the trip 
they would make. to forget love to find self, to grasp freedom, a trip which in fact Wolfman would never make, his boss unpermitting; no, Bigger Brzhob would have to go alone, forget best buddy Wolfman along with all the rest, to find self. to grasp freedom. 
The first day went well. Brzhob got up 
with the sun. doused himself with cold 
water from a nearby faucet (his tent was in 
a state park), and slowly c"· sumed a 
carefully prepared breakfast. Ht pent the 
morning and much of the . 'ernoon 
wandering the Badlands. He climbed the 
gravelly hills with precision, thinking only 
of his boots and where they could. be placed 
to climb most effectively. He sat at the top 
of a peak and played harmonica to himself, 
concentrating on the notes, thinking no­
thing. He watched for snakes and animals 
and took long. slow gulps from his 
canteen. never spilling a drop. He stopped 
several times to snap photographs--he 
would want to remember this day, this 
place. Lying still and calm on the cracked 
white Badlands earth later that afternoon. 
he reveled, with eyes closed and body 
relaxed, in the fresh emptiness he'd thrust 
upon himself. Dinner timt came when 
Brzhob felt hungry. He prepared the meal 
with a slow and careful deliberateness, 
first setting everything needed on the 
picnic table, then attending to required 
ftasks; ~me-by-one: lighting the Sterno, 
opening the cans of beef stew and corn, 
filling the pans with cold food, setting the 
plate, fork, knife, and cup, making the 
Kooi-Aid. selecting two slices of bread for 
wiping up gravy, and putting the food on a 
low fire, one low enough to give him time 
to wash his hair and change clothes. 
Now everything was pertect. Bigger Brzhob stood smiling in the breeze, his hair drying. The beef stew simmered evenly on the picnic table. Brzhob had put on clean white pants and a yellow t-shirt. His deep tan looked good with these clothes. The wind blew, he swallowed slowly, with a smile ... till he was startled by a sudden tug at this elbow. "Hey!" he cried, whirling on a young boy dressed in blue jeans and cowboy boots. 
Davy had come to the Badlands in a shiny 
new Airstream house trailer that was 
parked about a hundred yards from Bigger 
Brzhob's small orange tent and shaded 
picnic table. He was traveling across the 
countrv with his parents, his baby sister, 
and h.is grandfather. Brzhob tried to 
ignore him. 
"Any place to catch some big fish around 
here'?" Davy asked. "I came on this trip to 
go fishin'. What'd you come out here for'! 
You all by yourself?" 
Brzhob turned away and walked to the 
picnic table. he picked up a comb and 
whipped it through his hair. "Yeah," he 
said. "I came out by myself." 
"Where ya' from?" 
''Michigan." 
"Michigan! Me 'n' my gramps caught a 
hole buncha fish back there--that's a keen 
lace. Where d'ya live in Michigan?" 
"Flint." 
"Uh--don't know where that is. Whad­daya do there? You got a job or somethin'?" 
Brzhob finished with his hair. "Nah," he said. "I go to college around there." 
"Whaddaya do at college?" 
Brzhob turned away ag.ain, checking the beef stew. It was beginning to boil. 
"Where are you from, kid?" 
"M'name is Davy, and I'm from Ken­
tucky." He stared at Brzhob's pack. "I 
sure do like travelin' around like this, 
'specially when ya' get to go fishin' so 
much. We been goin' t'all the most 
beautiful places in the United States. 
That's what m'dad says, and so far, looks 
like he's right. I never seen anything like 
all this--WOW!" 
"Yeah," said Brzhob. "It's pretty nice. 
Uh--1 was ,gonna be eating dinner, so--" . "And y'know what's best about all this 
travelin-'-especially if its with your gramps 
-you can do almost anything you want! 
Mom 'n' Dad are always too busy messin' 
with gas or the baby , or takin' picture~, 
and me 'n' gramps just get on his 
motorcycle and take off. We have a swell 
time, me 'n' gramps! We fish, and then 
we cook it up right there. Gramps makes a 
fire, and while the fish cooks, he tells me 
stories about when he was a cowboy out 
west." 
Brzhob stopped and smiled. His 
grandfather had been a cowboy, too, 
wandering the Nebraska -no; he checked 
himself. No need to ruin the day. "Scuse 
me. Davy, but I think you better be goin' 
while I eat. Don't you think your pare· 
will worry whPre you're atl'" 
Davy saddened. "Nah." he said. "My 
dad. he won't even get my arm fixed." 
Brzhob did not look up from the bread he 
was car~fully buttering. "Your arm? 
What's wrong with your arm?" 
"It's--It's--" The kid was sobbing. 
Brzhob turned suddenly, shocked. 
"Hey kid, whatsa matter?" 
Davy began to cry. He held out his right 
arm. "It's got a piece of pencil in it. My 
cousin and I got into a fight." 
Brzhob couldn't understand him through 
the sobbing. Tears streamed down Davy's 
face. "C'mon kid," said Brzhob. "Settle 
down. Tell me what happened." 
Davy showed Brzhob a tiny black point 
like a blackhead in his right forearm. "My 
cousin stuck me with a pencil, and the 
point broke off and stayed." 
"Does it hurt?'' 
Davy cried louder. "Yes," he whined.~ 
"Will you help me?" _ 
"Well," Brzhob faltered. "Haven't you 
told your father?" 
"Yes," he whined again. "He wouldn't take me to the hospital.'' "How long ago did it happen?" "About--about when school got out." Four weeks. Maybe it would get 
infected. Brzhob didn't know. "Why 
don't you tell your father again?" 
"Noooooo," Davy sobbed. "He'll get 
mad." 
"What about gramps?" 
"Noooooo. He doesn't like me to lose 
tights. Will you help me? You can help 
me. 
Brzhob froze in the dust. turned pale. He 
looked over at Davy's trailer. No one in 
sight. Davy sobbed and held his arm out. 
Brzhob felt his stomach turn--the day had 
been so good, he didn't want-­
"Davv! Davv--come to dinner!" It was 
Davy's-grandfather. 
Davy looked at Brzhob \\ ith pleading wet 
eyes. Brzhob looked at th(~ ground, did not 
speak. Davy slowly backed away, snift1ing, 
lowered his arm and turned to run. Brzhob 
swod silent and still. taking no chances. 
There was a sudden clatter on the tabie. 
The stew hadovert-oiled.Brzhob woke from his silent trance and cursed the stew. His hands shook as he moved towards the rags hanging on his pack. He stopped abruptly, and gave a little jump. His shoulders thrust inwards with a jerk, and he turned flailing, knocking the stove and pan from the table. "Damnit!" he cried. "Damnit all to hell!'' Pulling up, he let his head fall into his hands, and quickly sat down. Trembling, his hands.pulling at his hair, he decided he would eat peanut butter sandwiches and Kool-Aid before he hiked to a.nearby store, a store where he could get himself a twelve-pack of cold beer, and where he could place a long-distance phone call to Wolfie. 
* 
In Denver, Billy Herald had by now 
consumed exactly twelve-and-one-half 
beers. Hobos yelled and swore and 
smelled bad all around him. They came to 
him with spittle on their chins, blood caked 
in the wrinkles on their faces, and asked for 
money. Billy told them to go to hell. Now 
lie stopped writing, took a long gulp of 
beer, finishing another can. Thirteen. He 
burped loudly, picked up his pen, and 
looked to the page before him. Leaving 
thirteen lines under where he'd left off 
blank, he began again: 
Hello out there. I am the writer of this 
Brzhob story, and as such, can do anything 
I damn well please with it. I think that's 
called ''Artistic license.'' Freedom. So far, 
I've been recalling scenes from my 
childhood, changing names. making up 
scenes, making up words for non-existant 
people, trying to weave all this stuff into a 
prose that will finally bring home to you my · important message. You can take it home 
with you and forget it, or break bread with 
it, watch television with it, reshingle the 
roof with it, yell about it, laugh at it, pray 
to it, chop it, dice it, mix it, stomp on it 
with track spikes. But probably forget it, 
eh? I don't blame you. Hell, all I do is 
write it. Ican do anything Iwant, but Ijust 
write it. It's safer than doing. I never get 
abuse--my characters take it. When 
my characters do something good, I get off the while growing wary of grandfather's face, its expression, and ready to run, stepping backwards as he spoke, finishing his spiel and almost turning before he, Brzhob, surprized, saw brown weatherbea­ten friendly hand outstretched--"Come in, son, eat with us"--Brzhob's eyes aglow, white smile crossing his face with grand­father's unexpected words, now apologiz· ing--"Ihave my own, thanks. Goodnight, 
sir"--and turning to walk off. taking ten steps, and stopping before the sunset. Brzhob--bronze child of the road, young raging searcher for self in a crumbling gravel land washed away so many million years agone, he sucks in glorious Badlands 
evening breeze, warm, whistling. and gone, gone through his sun-reddish hair into the purple hills, across the trailer camp with its Coleman lanterns blinking refuge lights to each other across che court and the firepit where all could huddle and stare at strange faces and feel sate in blankets before scurrying back 'o camp. bed, and beautiful sleep. Brzhub walk·::d into that breeze, into that sunset, his e' e~ burning with a vision he would never sa~· or write, just reveal it in touch or kiss or caress, something he knew, knew that he could do anything, anything, and breaking into a run, whooping wild-voiced, loud, young madman in the night. Brzhob sprinted into the sunset flame, onto the highway winding into the west, leavinf! tent, pack, food, canteen, leaping, ~cream· ing, laughing. up the road, into !he orange blaze horizon, where new love would lie. pretty face or none, naked, warm. wckom· ing. unspeaking, laughing too, and \\here the evening star droops and sheds her sparkler dims on the prairie, just before the coming of complete night (Howsaboutsi~. Jack'!) that blesses the earth, darken' all rivers, cups the peaks and folds the tina: shore in. where nobody knows what·~ going to happen, save what we know at the moment we choose, and where Brzhob would search for old Mr. Librettoni: the father he never knew; he looks for old Mr. Librettoni. 
-

Billy Herald sat at his bedroom desk in Flint, Michigan. He silently rc·r~·ad the piece he had written in the Denver bar. The final section he read aloud, smiling at the ending. He took ·out his personal journal, a ragged, blue sprial notebook. and made this entry: 
That felt good. Especially the second ending. What next? Write, I guess. 
I'm hovering secure between the first and last lines of whatever I'm writing, hunched serene and safe over my paper, pen assuredly in hand. food on the table. clothes on my body. beers cold in the icebox, ounce in the drawer, mv name on the MSU Dean's List, my pare-nts behind me. my baby sister ready to jump in my lamp, my brothers good buddies. the new girl awaiting my call, anxious to crawl into bed. 
Will I ever movt C•ean 
Or will these things surrounding me simply metamorphose into 'ean sheet of paper, a fresh color of pen ink. food at a wife's easy disposal. clothes on my body, beers cold in the icebox. brandy too, perhaps cocaine in the drawer, my name on new lips and lists, my parents Plct and wrinkled, still behind me. mv brolhers and sisters a quick call or card 'away, my old laidy awaiting the check, resigned to crawling into bed. With me. Me. hunched, hovering. safe. thinking then writing, thinking then writing. doing nothing. just writing along. ink down on paper, subtle movements of the hand. then a pause. leaning back in my chair, tossing pen aside, amused, hand relaxed, me satisfied,always bewildered, does it realh matter what words I choose to place between the vertical and horizontal lines on this page? 
BTJ GruJey 3 May 1978 on it more that they do, because ! made 'em do it. Neat little shelter, eh? Well, what'd you think I came all the way out here for? I live in Flint too, just like Brzhob. In fact, my reasons for coming here are pretty much the same as his for going to the Badlands. I had this girl in Flint. She dumped me for a jackass. I hounded her with flowers, letters, and poems, but she just got upset, and finally, wouldn't even speak to me. The next four weeks were horrible. Then Igot the idea to come out here. I came to Denver to get Flint out of my soul, crawl into Brzhob on this page and let him work it all out, even the girl thing. A clever arrangement, I'd say. 'Cept, Brzhob hasn't worked it all out yet. has he? He will now. l've decided to 

re-write the ending to the story. to better suit my needs: 
Brzhob. stood silent and still, trembling, watching Davy trot towards the trailer, when-­
He took a chance. 
"Wait!" he cried, running after Davy. past him, a full-out crazed breathless blind sprint all the way to the great long shining Airstream, racing straight to the door and knocking loud, catching breath, introduc­ing himself. the--" Sir, I think you gra1 son here has a problet.. r.e's afraid to--' and so on with the lanation, Brzhob all 
features 
Features 
FEATURES 




The results are in for the coveted title of Ugly Man on Campus, and the winner is: Orest Deychakiwsky. 
Orest, the heavy preseason favorite, amassed a total of 170,528 votes ($1, 705.28), while second place finisher Drew Danik compiled 163,647 votes ($1,636.47). 
Other top ten finishers include (in order of finish), 

Joe Wheaton 4,214 votes David Brchf 2.250 Maura Sendelbach 2,000 Kim Convey 1.825 Greg 'Otto; Principato 1,772 Tim Crcagan 1,677 .John MalColm 1,048 Kelly Tripucka 651 
ISO other students received votes in the contest, which raised more money than ever before. The proceeds of the UMOC contest, a total of over $3,500, will ~o to Sister Marietta's Day School. 
r. Goodbar on reserv 
The winner of An Tostal's "Looking for Mr. Goodbar" contest is senior Mary Jo Murphy of Farley Hall. Murphy earned a dinner for two at a focal restaurant. 
For those of you still looking, the Mr. Goodbar wrapper was hid in a copy of Neil Simon's "Prisoner of Second Avenue," which was shelved in the Library's Reserve Book Room. 
-
\ 
Machines cause mail delays 
WASHINGTON [API -The use of 
machines instead of humans to sort mail is leading to increases in the number of letters routed to the .wrong city and subsequent delays 
in delivery, the Postal -Service 
says. 
A Postal Service survey of inter­
city mail handled in 30 facilities 
found 2.2 percent of the letters 
were directed to the wrong cities ­
often to the cities in other parts of 
the country, Senior Assistant Post­
master General E. V. Dorsey has 
told the Postal Serveice Board. 
'As an example, a letter from 
New York. City to Washington 
might wind up in Cleveland. You 
then have to send it form Cleveland 
to Washington. It will be at least 
one day late," he said. 
Dorsey was asked by a board 
member, Robert Hardesty, if there 
were fewer letters sent in the 
wrong direction before mechaniza­
tion replaced much of the manual 
sorting of mail. 
"Oh. yes," Dorsey replied. He 
said the missent rate is higher now 
because "mail used to be sorted 
twice, and that gave you two 
chances to catch errors. Now, you 
only have one shot at it." 
Dorsey said the reasons for 
missent mail include mechanical 
and human errors and improper 
ZIP codes in the addresses. 
Postal Service delivery standards 
AAUP to hold chapter meeting 
There will be a chapter meeting of the American Association of University Professors today at 4 
p.m. in the University Club. All faculty members are invited to call for letters to arrive m one, two or three days, depending on the distance they must travel. The mail agency's statistics show that more than 90 percent of letters are delivered within the service stan­dards, but missent mail is one of 
the main reasons why some letters take longer. Under mechanization, a machine 
· brings one letter to a position in front of a postal worker. The worker has one second to punch several digits of the ZIP code into a keyboard on the machine. If the letter is going to a different area, he must punch the first three digits but if these numbers are the same 
he must punch the last two digits. The numbers punched tell the 
machine which area of the city or which other city the letter should go to and the machine puts the letter with the mail for that city. 
However, the clerk may punch the 
wrong number, Dorsey said. 
Sometimes, the machine puts the letter with the mail for the wrong 
city. 
Under the old methods, largely abandoned in recent years, letters were sorted by clerks who read the addresses and put them into cubby holes for that area. Then a second clerk would make a second sorting to break the mail down into smaller areas. All this is now done faster by a single worker. 
About 15 percent of the missent letters are the result of incorrect ZIP codes on the envelope, Dorsey said. Under the old method, clerks often could catch a letter with an incorrect ZIP code and route the Jetter to the proper place, but this is rare now. 

The Splendor of Carved Wood 
Only 1000 of these magn1f1cent dark walnut satin f1n1sh. A g1ft to plaques will be reproduced from be proud of for your parents or the orig1nal hand carv1ng Made yourself $50.00 plus S3 00 of high-dens1ty arch1lectural ure-handling. A small brass plate en­thane. these plaques are 30 · w1de graved w1th your name and clas!:' and r· th1ck. They have the heft can be mounted 31 the bottom of oak. but Will never warp. dry out for SB 00 add1!1onal. Please allow or split Every tiny wood gram 30 days for delivery. l.Jncondlllonal deta11 1s nchly accented by the money back quarantee 
Oxford Plaque Co. 
Department NDO 4944 Rabbit Hollow Dnve. Boca Raton. Flonda 33431 


These prices will never be lower so c'mon down and SAVE!! 
Atl~ DOWT FfR61T 
\;Jt MSD (tx)T.•. 
919e 
~RA PHERN'All A CLD~IN'=> 
Mt KrNc.E~ 
t\\410~2JNt S AND ('\ISifAWA K4
o-ntfR .E>oo"'E s-rv~ !! 

On Mellow Thursday of An Tostal week, a record was set in the game of "musical chairs". The event, which started with 1.142 chairs. wa!; played by 1.223 people, with the eventual winner being Kathy Klein of Saint ~~~~OS Mary's. The game lasted an hour and forty minuets and broke the world record for participants in a game of musical chairs. The event will be recorded in the Guiness Book of World Records.' 
Writing prizes announced 
The English Department an­nounced the results yesterday of the 1978 prizes recogniz1ng student achievement in creative, critical. and expository writing. 
The winner of the Samuel Hazo Poetry· Prize was Denise Despres, with Susan Johr1son receiving Hon­orable Mention. 
The William Mitchell Award for Playwriting was ·presented to Charles Daubner. 
The· Academy of American Poets · Prize was awarded to Susan John­son. 
The Meehan Medal for Literary Merit went to Melita Schaum, and . the John T. Frederick Prize went to Richard Landry, with Kathleen 
· McElroy_ receiving Honrable Men­tion: · One prize was not given--the 
·Richard T. · Sullivlt'll Award for Fiction Writing. · 
~·~~-~~'-~ 
· 
~ 

The Splendor ,of Carved Wood 
Only 1000 oJ these magnrfrcent plaques wrll be reproduced from the ongrnal hand carvmg. Made of lltgh-denstty archtlectural ure­thane. these plaques are 21" wtde and 1 thtck They have the heft of oak. but wrll never warp. dry out or spirt Every trny wood grarn detarl rs n.chly .1ccented by the dark walnut satrn frnrsh A grft to be proud of for your parents or yourself SJS 00 plus 53 00 handlrnq A small brass plate en­qravecl wrth your narne and clas8 can be mounten at the bottom for 58 00 addtttonal Please allow 30 clays for delrvery Uncondtttonal 
•nancy !Jack guarantee 
Oxford PlaQue Co. 
Department NOB 4944 Rabbrt Hollow Ortve. Bocil flaton Florrctil 33431 
IND-I~m-1) 
1 

•-o··­


SELF-LOCK 
STORAGE OF McKINLEY 
-

SPECIAL RATES FOR 
ND STUDENTS: 
Storag(> for 
MOTORCYCLES AUTOS, FURNITURE, BOOKS, Etc. 
Shar(> a spa~(> with a roommate i )r friend! 
YOUR OWN STORAGE SPACE -YOU KEEP THE KEY 
CALL OR VISIT TODAY AT: 
816 E. McKINLEY, MISHAWAKA 
259-0335 
ALSO AN A&A QUALITY ClEANERS Sl ATION 


Thursday, May 4, 1978
16 the observer 
Michigan's Owens blanks Irish bats 


well be in the summer game. 
"I'll probably be drafted in June, 
and I'll have to see what kind of an 
offer is made before I decide to turn 
pro," he explained. Leach. who 
wears number 7 in both sports, 
continued, "I know we play Notre 
Dame on September 23, but I may 
not be making the trip. It all 
depends on whether or not I am 
offered enough money by the team 
that drafts me." 
For one, Coach Benedict thinks Leach has a definite future in baseball. "He reminds me of a young Roberto Clemente," Bene­dict marveled. "He has got excellent baseball instincts and is a sure bet to be a major-leaguer. Casey Stengel once said, 'Having Mickey Mantle in center field makes me a better manager.' The same is true in my case with Leach." 
The Irish only managed to collect four hits in losing the first game, 4-0. Greg Rodems and Dan Voellinger singled in the freshman reliever Mike Thomas put out the flame in both innings, inducing Rick Pullano to hit into a double play int the sixth and retiring Tom Szwak on strikes and getting Dave Smith to fly out in the seventh. Dave Chapman and Leach drove in a pair of runs each for Michigan, each collecting two hits in the opener. 
Shortstop Rick Pullano. who en­tered the double-dip batting .389, lamented, "we just haven't been getting the hitting to win ball 
games. We've got to start helping our pitchers out if we want to close the season on a winning note.'' The Irish mark dropped to 10-20-1 after the twin-killing. Michigan leads the Big Ten with a 7-llog and is 18-11 overall. 
by Mike Henry Sports Writer 
The powerful Michigan Wolver­ines rolled into South Bend yester­day and left the Notre Dame baseball team for dead. sweeping a double-header by 4-0 and 6-0 scores. The nightcap featured a no-hitter by sopho.more hurler Tom Owens, capped by a close play at first in the final inning that was a first ruled a hit but later changed to an error by official scorer Forest Miller of the South Bend Tribune. 
Owens breezed through the first six frames. bothered only by a long fly to left by Dan Voellinger and a hard liner by Rick Pullano in the sixth that caromed off the pitcher's leg but was fielded by Owens to JUSt retire Pullano. In the seventh, after Mark Simmendinger gounded out and Jim Montagano popped to lirst. Vocllinger surprised everyone by laying a bunt twenty feet down the third base line. It was picked upl'leanly by Owens, whose throw to first appeared to have Voellinger beat for the final out. However. 
after a second's hesitation. the first base umpire called Voellinger safe. Owens tlcw into a rage and had to be restrained by Wolverine mentor !\tloby Benedict, and then asked the .trbiter if he had taken an eye examination recently. Official 

······························­
: HELP WANTED! !
-• •
•
• Part-time positions available : ~his summer and next school year:
• 
:• RIVER CITY RECORDS/ ! 
:THE RIVER CITY REVIEW: 
• Call Pet'r Kernan :
•
: at 277-4242 fol an appointment : 
• 
Scorer Miller immediately called it 
a hit, but after being told by the 
umpire that Owens throw had 
drawn first baseman Bob Wasil­
ewski off the bag, reversed the 
decision to an error on the pitcher. 
When Matt Rush popped to Wasil­
ewski two pitches later, Owens had 
his gem although he did not realize 
it until well after the game. 
Mike Bobinski started the tilt for the Irish onjust three days rest and experienced some control problems in the first, issuing three free passes that lead to three Michigan tallies. Wasilewski drove in Chapman with a single, and on the play, Mark Simmendinger let the throw from center go into the dugout to allow George Fouissianes to score. Vic Ray then squeezed a bingle between short and third that scored Wasilewski, who had ad vanced to third on the error. The only Irish bright spot was four and 2/3 innings of sterling relief work turned in by Ma;k Ladd, who allowed just one hit to the danger­ous Wolverines. 
Center fielder Rick Leach, who has been the starting quarter-back for Michigan over the last three years drove in a run with a single to conclude a fine day. He was three for six with three runs batted in and two stolen bases for the afternoon, and afterwards said his future may 
Annual Blue-Gold game slated to be held Saturday · 
The annual Blue-Gold intrasquad football game winding up spring practice will be held in Notre !Yame Stadium on Saturday. May 6 at 2:00 
p.m. 
Notre Dame and St. Mary's students will be admitted upon 


~.·~ 
:· (~~
•
insty-pr1nts• 
the wiz of the printing biz! 
rag bond 
25 -8.5 x 11 only $2.65 203 N. Mam 
WEXT TO NORTH VILLAGE MALL 
HELD OVER-4nd WEEK 
Can 22 hotel floors, 
42 guards,157 cops, 
390 barricades and, 3,000 hysterical fans 
keep these kids from getting to the Beatles? 
NOWAY!

FOR NEXT YEAR TO DELIVER PAPERS 
must be available Tuesdays and Thursdays 


Showtimes ~
10: 
Weekdays-7 :20-9:30 Sat.Sun-· 
1 :30-3:25-5:30-7 :45-·9 :so

call Steve Odland at 8661 or 1478 

Irish batters went hitless in game two, Tom Owens wun his no-hitter, 6-0, after a disputed call on the very last out made things questionable. [Photo by Ken McAlpine] . 
Last weekend, the Irish dropped two close decisions to the Cincin­nati Bearcats, 8-7 and 9-6. Sunday. the squad split with Xavier, losing the opener 1-0 on an unearned run but taking the nightcap 5-4. Excelling for Notre Dame in these contests were Mark Simmcndin­
presentation of ID cards at gate fifteen only. 
General admission tickets for the public arc available at the ticket sales window, Athletic and Convd­cation Center, priced at S2.50 for adults, S 1.00 for children 17 and ger. who homered; Dave DeFacci. who amassed 5 hits and five RBI's; Captain Rick Pullano who lined out six safeties: and Jim Montagano, with four hits. Additionally. Don Wolfe pitched a four-hitter in the 1-0 defeat to Xavier. victimized by a misplay. 

under. Tickets will also be avail­able at the staduim the day of the game. priced $3.00 for adults and $1.50 for children. Dates. spouses, parents..et('. must have· tickets. No scats will be reserved. 
The game is spon.sorcd anr!'ually by the Notre Dame Alumni Club of St. Joseph Valley and suppPrts the dub's scholarship fund which cur­rently sustains twelve students of this area at the university . 
need resumes in a 
hurry? 
~~~~ 



------.---~~--~---­
_!hursday, May 4, 1978 the Observer 17 
I 
1 
''LITE TASTES GREAT AND 
IT'S LESS FILLING. IALSO LIKE 
THE EASY-OPENING CAN:' 

-
: l 
I 
J 
~ 
j I I 
~~ I 
' 
' 
I I I I I 
j 

18 the ObServer Thursday,May4,1978 ,--------------------------, 
B..Lllll!-el___....le_._._s~d!llr..l....loLX.Iw_n_e_d_b_y_P_ur_d_u_e_ t ()L~)~JT1,.. by Michael Molinelli t 
-
by Gregory Solman Associate Sports Editor 
It was not a pleasant ending to the regular season for the Belles of Saint Mary's, who faced Purdue­Calumet Monday and weathered a 19-9 loss. 
Captain and star-pitcher Diane Klucka was out of the line-up again with pneumonia, and despite the combined efforts of Kelli Conlin and Jerry Plumb, Purdue was not to be denied victory. 
The girls of Purdue Calumet had big innings in the third and fifth innings that carried them to vic­tory. After a second inning three-run homer by Patty Paster­nak had given Purdue the early lead. bit Sue Torrence swatted tow home runs, one in the third inning for three runs, and one in the fifth for two more. 
The Belles made a comeback 
Students invited to banquet I 
By request of the 1977 Notre Dame football team captains, stu­dents will be permitted to attend the speaking portion of the Testi­monial Banquet on Friday, MayS. The captains expressed their desire to open up the speaking program ro those students who wish to attend "because it is our 
way to sho~ appreciation for the 'uppport gtvcn us by the best ~tudent body in the world." 
attempt in the fourth inning when Kelli Conlin singled, and Liz Aerts belted a home run. Saint Mary's
added to the innings' total when Sue Schneider reached on an error 
and Cathy Bickel doubled her home. In the Belles' fifth inning, the effort to regain the lead continued as Annette Cates singled, Conlin singled again, Mary Clark doubled, driving home one run, and Colleen 0' Malley cloated a three-run 
homer to cap the comeback at-,t tempt. f From here on, the season simply gets harder for the Belles, as they 
f travel to the State Championships A in Indianapolis against such for-' midable opponents as Indiana Uni-A versity, Indiana State, Taylor Col-' lege and Franklin College, whom f the Belle play in the first matchup t today. 
Students will be admitted bypresenting their identification cards at Gate 11 beginning at 8:30 
P.M. Students will be permitted to sit in sections 6, 7 and 8. Following the presentations of the various national championship trophies and the awarding of national championship rings to members of the 1977 team, a special showing of the filmed highlights of the season will be presented. 
SCHEDULECHANGEDATSACRED 
campus HEART CHURCH 
ministry 
Beginning the first Sunday of the Summer Session, June 25th, the Mass schedule will change in the Main Church. New Sunday Mass times will be: 9:15am, 10:30 am and 
12:1spm. 
E Qi Yearbooks are in 

0 and can be picked up 1n the ballroom of Lafortune on 
Thursday 1-5 
Please brin our N D ID card 

0 
3 
(t) 
National Championship Caps 
now available at 
Ice Rink Pro Shop many other souvenie~ also available 
to graduating
5% DISCOUNT 
Seniors-Present your ID 
M:::::==:==E=n=te=r=g=a=t=e=3=l=O=a=m=·=5=pm=M==on=-=F=n=·====~ 
f 
A JJM YOU 1R£ TA KlNG A~T 
' -r-a D NS HI sr-MES
t I nA ITIO T 5 c: ­
A T£'D , AQ ,.-.. 11T "()U ?, F=~~~~ 
' I ' f1 nr:.IV II
f f 
A 
' 
t 
A iii~~~~~~i~iiiiii~ 
f ' ~ 
f 
A 
' 
A 
f ' 
f 
t 
t t t t 
! 
COULD YOU HELP A 
t 

FRIEND OF MINE? SHE's 
t 

BEEN HAVING P/108LEI'1S t WITH IT LATELY 
t t t t t t t t 
t 
t I t t t I t t t t t t t t t t 
t 
t 

~ 
t 
t 


e-------------------------~
CLC discusses dorms, lofts 
[continued from page 1] main. A second point calls for the draperies and mattresses provided installation of emergency lighting for the dormitories meet with fire that would run on batteries in the and safety regulations. event of an electrical blackout 
The final resolution which dealt caused by fire. with fire and safety regulations was The proposal also calls for better anticipated by Paczesny, and was marking of exits in residence halls addressed in his letter to the CLC. and the replacement of pulley Paczesny said that all questions on operated windows with "panic" proposals regarding fire safety bars. regulations should be submitted to The last point recommends that Bland. private rooms leading to fire 
The recommendations, present-escapes in St. Ed's and Holy Cross ed by John Ryan, propose that the halls be vacated at the beginning of University install a sprinkler sys-the fall semester. tern throughout Carroll Hall to Student Body President Andy supplement the inadequate water• McKenna concluded the meeting 
r-------------------------,
IAnyone interested in being a contact/buddyl
I I
I . I 
1 to an incoming transfer student 1 ll
next semester, 
I please call Chris (1 052), Carey (6877), I
lI 
I ---~~~:~-~~~~~~~-~~_s___J 

by reporting on the progress of previous resolutions. He noted the CLC has not followed up on the plan to lobby for a 19-year-old drinking age in Indiana.. 
After the CLC meeting, McKen­na suggested the possibility of establishing a "follow-up" com­mittee that would monitor the progress of proposals after they are presented to the vice-president for Student Affairs. 
A parliamentarian was also sel­ected at the meeting. Student Union representative Gary Luchini was unanimously chosen to serve in that capacity when the CLC reconvenes next Seotember. 
-Different types
ol hair need different types of care. 
Let us examine your hair (we suggest a hair analysis), then condition it profes­sionally with the Red ken product we believe will do your hair the most good. 
If you need help w1th your 
hair, make an appointment for a professional Red ken conditioning treatment today 

THE HAIR DESIGNERS 
121 S. St.Louis Blvd. 
234-4343 


--~~------~--------------------­
Thursday, May 4, 1978 the QbJ_erver 19 

NOTICE'S 
I 
Come one, come all to the great American Amusement Park field trip this Sunday May 7th, 1978. For the first time ever the Notre Dame/St. Mary's Council for the Retarded is sponsoring this extravaganza for the Logan Center children and adults. For anyone that Is interested In going (whether you are a Logan Volunteer or not doesn't matter), meet at Logan Center at 8:30 a.m. and we'll return at 6:00p.m. Take abreak from studying and help us out. Bring lots of friends along with you!! Any questions feel free to call Art Koehel (287-7509) or Jeanne Conboy (4-1-4391) Be there!!' 
"Will do typing. Neat accurate. Call 
287-5162." 
i 
I am desperate for aride to Hartford CT anytime after May 14. Can share driving 
and expenses. Call Marybeth, 6877 
Need a ride to Albuquerque after graduation. Will share driving and expenses. Call Debbie at 4-1-4898. 
Dissertations. Manuscripts, Etc. typed,IBM Selectric II. Linda's Letters. 
287-4971. 
Have you considered a career in real estate? Company with a reputation for commercial and investment sales seeking potential sales associates. Call Berrien Real Estate Service. 616-983-1585 St. Joseph, Ml location. Ask for Florian Beles. 
Paint ahouse this summer and live for free In that same furnished house a couple blocks from campus. 277-3604 
Work for me this summer a few hours a week and live for free. 277-3604 
Truck rour goodl8$ home to ROCh8$ter, NY cal Frank, 232-3455 
NEED QUALITY TYPING? Executary, Inc. Professional Typing Service IBM Cor~ecting Selectrics. $85 per page mlmmum. Call 232-0898 "When you want the Best" 
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND Friday, May 5 is the final day to pay your loan. All loans not paid will be turned over to Student Accounts Penalty will be charged. No NO EXCEPTIONS. 
Leaving May 22nd In new conversion van for West Coast possibly East Coast, Maybe Canada, but then Florida doesn't sound bad either! Want to come ? Call 233-8855 

Attention all logan volunteers and inter­ested students. The annual awards banquet for the retarded children and adults that participate in the ND-SMC council for the retarded activities is this Saturday night, from 6:30-9:30 p.m. in the Logan Center Cafeteria. We need lots of help cooking, serving, and decorating! Workers will be planning and making decorations on Friday night from 6:()()-10:00 p.m. at the Logan Cafeteria. If you can help out, even for an hour or so please call Mike at 1216 or Sue at 4-1-4783. If you could help cook or serve at the banquet, please Call Jean at 4-1-4391 or Art at 287-7509. Also, we need empty wine bottles for decorations so if you have any of those you can contribute, please call Jean. The banquiet is a dressy affair, so--put on some nice threads and help us salute the Logan Kids for their fine efforts this year' 
Don't Forget: The last ND-SMC council for the retarded recreation period is this Saturday, May 6th. from 9:00-11:30 a.m. Come and join in on the fun that makes the last Rec one of the most special of the year' Any questions. please call Mike at 1216 or Sue at 4-1-4783. 
FOUND: One Plymouth care key on a black _key chair~ with a Sagittarius medallion. One lmed Blue Denim jacket with no identification. One navy blue hooded sweatshirt. One navy blue windbreaker. One timex watch on a blake black leather watchband. All items found at the An Tostal Volleyball tournament courts by the Towers last week. TO claim, call Ted (3209) LOST: 1 pair of maroon 
between Flanner and Library during An Tostal. please call Sue 4-1-5773 
FOUND: Glass case. Call to the Observer office. 
LOST: One blue fiberglass raquetball raquet with leather grip. REWAR'D. Call 1605 if found. 
LOST: Small hammered gold ring. Of great personal value. If found please call Marltza 1915 
FOUND: One pair of contacts In :FacultyParkmg lot. Call 3564 · 
LOST: A pair of blue-grey prescriptionssunglasses. 7957. 
LOST: Two rings in LaFortune Powder Room SMC Class Ring [In M.M.W, B.S.N., 78] and Initial ring. Call Mary [4-1-4764] or Jim [8287]. REWARD$. 
--------------~--­
FOUN0:2 keys with N118 in front of Lewis Hall. Call Observer. 
LOST: Takumar 150.00 Camera Lens (telephoto-with case 135 mm) and lens projector. Call 277-4585. 
LOST: Keys on leather ring between rugby field and mud pits. Call 5729. 
LOST: A Kodak Tele·instamatic camera with the initials MVS on the back at the Carnival Friday Night. Call -Mary at #2152 
FOUND: In student parking lot, pair of contac lenses, in lens case. Call 3564. 
LOST: yellow calculus notebook on South Quad Fri. afternoon at An Tostal. Call Joe at 1736. His grade depends on it. 
FOUMO: Kite in entrance of O'Shag. Call 6906 to identity. 
LOST: gold wire frame glasses invicinity of SMC clubhouse Sat. night. Name on inside of Bow. Call 1770 
LOST: Blue Key chain that says "Laurie California" on it. If found please call 4425 (SMC) Thanks! 
LOST: Kodak lnstamatic Camera at mudpit Saturday. It was left on the bleachers. If not found my roommate will decapitate me. Call Mike at 3805. 
For sale-one couch, one hanging lamp, one x-mas tree. one end table. Cheap Call Rich or Joe 1173 
Full color Cotton Bowl, and USC football; UCLA, Kentucky and Maryland basket­ball pictures for sale. Sports Illustrated material at alow price. Call Doug at 8982 or stop by 318 Zahm. 
Stereo equipment major brand discounts on .fully guaranteed, factory sealed audio-visual eqpt. Elliot enterprises, Park Court, Buchanan, Mich. 49107 Call Niles Toll free 683-0121 
For Sale:. 2 twin bedspreads -orange, brown, be1ge and white pattern· quilted ­excellent condition! '32 for the pair. Call 4-1-4001. 
For Sale: New Yorker 3-speed bicycle. Good condition. Must sell. Call Jack at 6706. 
Small sofa, ideal for single-sized room. $15. Cali Maureen 6856. 
1977 Nova -4door air, PS, PB at V-8 AM radio with speakers. 6,000 mil!ls. If interested call: 272-3572 after 5:00 
Easy chair. cassette tape recorder, cassettes Paul (1537) 401 Cav. 
For Sale: 1970 Buick Le Sabre. Good condition. Good Price. Call Felix at 289-4736. 
used gold balls like new $20 per 100 and other prices call 272-0783 
FOR SALE: 3floral bedspreads with dust ruffles and curtains. Great Price; Call SMC-4563 
Refrigerator for sale. 6 .month old compact. Price negotiable Please call Mimi 6723 
meet new .frien 

"73 vega" Chev. 2-door, Bids 
N.0. Credit Union • 283-6262 ' 
"n Flrabord" Espirlt 3 speed • I-IM•I'11111... 8 track stereo $3,999.99 ·N.D. Union • 283-6262 "Millicent" 
become an Observer typi
"75 Ford Elite" with 2-door, -radio, A/C. 12,173 Miles. 
N.D. Credit Union-283·6262 ''Millie~.,,., 
paid position 
"75 Audl Foxy" Type 2S 2-door, Milos Bids accepted. N.D. Credit 283-6262 "Millicent"
-----------+{,'
Great furniture buys! Couch, des'i</ call Mardi at 41-4677 
chairs, tables call 288-5182 J :.­
--------~··· 
1974 Pinto Squire Wagon -Must see to'~-~ appreciate. Automatic, air, excelleQt ·.;A.V'w"'.!'·.IVY.•.AI'.I'•'""'""'VY~
cond1t1on.  277-3967.  .,__  -­ ···  " -,. -.-.. '· · -··-­, . __ • --There once was a stuaent named Petey  "·  -­-· ·  -.­• -· .-offi " :.::..:.::..:....:.::....:.:.::.____________,_  
2 Yamaha NS-5 speakers and Harmon Kardon 330 Creceiver. Practically new. Bargain. Call 3081. . Capri 73, V-6 Deluxe, 4 speed loaded. offers 7232 Student Union ticket office has 200 Plitt tickets left to sell. Any faculty member, staff member. student who wants tickets  Who g~t ~P t~ take him a wee-wee But a p1e mhiS eye Made poor Petey cry"Those damn fools -I'll now blow my tweetie.'' Cathy, Catchen, We went to Pland, Chicago, Stevensville. But will you still go to Philadelphia? I'll go to Glenview! Beef.  Hiarcuts, trims, styles, cheap! c1·-l· Betsy, SMC 4530 -----------.:.. What makes Dean Roemer shake in ni~ ski vies? No talent show ­courtyard Dilltr and Alumni starts when the kegs are dh You guys -second floor B-P is still fE best-ask any freshman male-1t's tr • Thanks for helping to make my year gr ;  
for the summer come Friday May 5, 1978.  to the office by  Hello D'villes! I'm psyched you're here!  Tom Bnn  ~  
PAD-Got your grad. announcement last week. I'm going to miss you. But I'll bring the next one along. Love you lots. Bro.  What makes the Keenan Review looK . • a. Girl ~out function? Kegs in GreAr; F1eld pnor to show starting at 6:00 I  
Staying for the summer? Rent a house and live off campus. Lower summer rent, close to campus. Call 8730 or 8742 for more details  Suzy P. Here's your very own puule to figure out : ITCTWIT? Have agood time at the derby  We were only lying before with 0\lt question the unique no-talent show will be here Friday nite. admission two ·~ eyes To the freshmen swin te. ·,. members:  
S~mmer Rental -4 bedrooms, walking distance, great neighborhood, great buy, What a palace!! 287-7617  John Malcolm Have you ever heard the expmsion M.Y.O.B.? Try it· the rest of us will be glad!  you must admit we were great ­and had some good times too -yet.: guys (and Betsy) were great -i< was a real experience for me  
Four bedroom house for rent this summer near campus -contact Myron Busby at 287-7617  Mother's Day is May 14. you love a puppy or kitten.  Give the one 272-2520  ND-SMC: this is the final week for $50 deposits to ensure youllllf a spot on the SENIOR CLASS TRIP to Southern Cal.  
4·5-6 bedroom houses near Portage and Angela. Rent adjusted to number of students. These are well-maintained houses. Call 234-6688 ND area. spacious 2 bedroom, unfur­nished, quiet neighborhOOd, recently redecorated, carpeted, heat and applian­ces furnished, available July 1, $175 for one month, Call 289-1856 after 6 p.m.  To Dave Bossung, Dave Bouhle, Jim Raat, Tim 0'Brian, Barry, Bill, Larry Chris, Gary, Tim, Dave, and all the rest : \/\ell, you have now Inherited me-Behney be~omes an Alumni Dog • Thanks for a good year -next year should be great! Car Wash Only $100 Saturday and Sunday May 6 and 7 1 :Q0-4:00 behind SMC Security House. Sponsored by : Augusta Hall  NO: LaFortune 1-4-p.m. SMC: LeMans Lobby 7-9 p.m. Artist to help illustrate book of poems to be published this year. Call John Monday or Wednesday. 6-10 p.m. 234-8364 Notre Dame men -we want you -to help SMC Freshmen move into their dorms on Saturday, Aug. 26th -sign up and information in student activities offiee  
Need ride to Albuquerque after gradua· tion. Will share driving and expenses. Call Debbie 4-1-4898. OVERSEAS JOBS -Summer/ year round. Europe, S. America, Australia, Asia. etc. All fields, $.500-$1200 monthly, expenses paid, sightseeing. Free infor­mation Write: BHP CO., Box 4490, Dept. 14, Berkeley, CA. 94704 Two St. Mary's students desperately need housing close to campus for summer. Willing to pay up to $50 per person per month. Call: 284-4004 or 284-5201. WANTED -Notre Dame student for part-time Budget Director. Knowledge of accounting important. Should be interes­ted in 0-Base budgeting. Prefer some­one who would like to develop an exp~rtise on analysing real estate tran­sactiOns. Contact Florian Beles, Berrien Real Estate Service 616·983-1585. St. Joseph, MI. Need an extra to fill your house or apt. next year? I need a place to live -preferably close to campus. Call Brian, 287-2275 after 11 p.m. WANTED: male grad student to share Corby homes townhouse. 2 bedrooms furnished. $85 per month plus utilities. Call Pat 287-7743  Is anyone planning a St. LDuls baggage truck? Anyone lntemted In driving or using one call Maureen 6856. STUDENT CHECKS cashed with SMC/ND I.D. at Georgetown Pharmacy, Georgetown Shopping Center or Mar Main Pharmacy, 426 N. Mich. All those lntermed In typing for the Observer next year call Mardi at 4-1­4fil7. These are paid positions. Need agraduation gift for afriend? FREE puppies and kittens ­take your pick! Call 272-2520 after 3 p.m. To the Discoing Lyonettes: . lloveyouallsomuch!!! I'm going to m1ss you guys a lot over the summer. Be sure to get a tan and shake it! Love, the Disco Kid-now revealed as Tom Behney Those girls from Farley are like so rude -ya know! (I object) But after all that's why we love them -aspokesman from 1st floor Stanford Need-bicycle· cheap-will pay cash. Call 7308. Need ride to Danbury, Conn. area: share D& E Mark 3506. Need one ride to Albany, N.Y. Can leave May 12 or 13. Have little to take. Share gas and driving. Steve 8998. I need an apt. for the summer. Please ask for John Klein at 289-4871.  (166 LeMans; 4-1431) SMC students -we want you to work on freshmen orientation for applications and information stop in or call student activities office (166 LeMans 4319) Attention former lnsbruckers, students of German and all fun·loving, beer-drinking persons! Register now for membership in next years N.D. German Club. Call Jean at 629-4496 or Ken 8816 Barb Boylan Happy Birthday From Farley Ha·· Hey Critch! Happy 21st Love. Sue and Mary Bart and Tim-We' II it· s been a hectic year-for me and Housing-hopefully I'm settled now. You guys are two of my best friends ­have asuper summer and I'II see you both next fall Tom Mike. W., Brian D., AI L., Mike H.. Bill R. Tim M., Tom T., Tom H., Bob K.. Kirby, Mike P., Marty. Murph, Pete. Jeff, AI A. Kevin-Thanks for a great semester -I really enjoyed my unfortunately brief stay in Stanford-but have no fear-I'll be back to haunt you! Tom Behney Herbie, Thank you for the best throe years of my life. Love,  
WANTED: Someone to drive my car to Ft. Lauderdale area after exams. Call Jeff 234-1263. WANTED: Need ride home to Ft. Lauderdale. Call 4-1-4381.  Male housemate wanted for the summer. Call 288-8417 Help wanted: We need people for work behind the bar and in the kitchen. Further information: Gail Lighthall Lee's Bar-b-que 289-0639  J.C. Official results of the An Tostal R1ac1 ·.1 1, are now posted in the huddle. The winner was Sue Callahan of Lewis Hall driving an AMC Horney.  
Returning Observer. typists: Please Indicate to me by the end of the week, the days and times you want to  
type next year. Call me or leave anote In my box.  
To the poet A.A.: This year has been great. I liked being a roommate. Later-Alligator? M.B.  Mardi This one's for you and you alone Lenore • you sweat little apple dumpling! Go get em In finals and give Detroit my best  
TB  


Thursday, May 4, 1978
20 the observer 
Fry: bolstering the ''Steel Curtain'' 


by Brain Beglane Sports Writer 
For Willie Fry there is only one way to do things: to the best of his ability. On or off the football field you will not find a person who concentrates as much or works as hard as the 6-3 Notre Dame senior. A player like him does not come very often. 
It comes as no surprise at all, then, that the Pittsburgh Steelers chose Fry in the second round of the recent NFL draft. A player of Fry's ability and character is a rarity, as Irish defensive line coach Joe Yonto can testify to. He was their second pick. hut the Steelers could not have latched on to a better man. "Willie is going to be very hard for us to replace," 
He has been an excellent leader and his playing ability speaks for itself. To be able to nnnbine both is rare and speaks very highly of a young man," noted Yonto. 
"Willie was such a hard worker that he just had to improve. He ·alwa~·s gave 100 percent. and you L'lHtld see how his leadership qualities developed. The Steelers are very fortunate indeed." 
The greatest testimony to Fry came from his teammates when they elected him as captain his junior and senior years. The last player before Fry to serve as a ND captain while a junior was Bob Olson in 1968. But now pro football awaits Willie. 
"I was expecting to be selected bv the second round and am just elated about being picked by Pittsburgh. After being scouted an and contacted by the Steelers, I decided Pittsburgh would be a great place to play. I have no qualms whatsoever," commented the native of Memphis. 
The Steelers took a special interest in Fry because they have what they call a "first and second generation" defensive line. Play-1 ers like 'Mean' Joe Greene, L.C. 
Irish 'Elite Eight' 
1978 Football Draftees 
Round  Player  
1  Ken MacAfee  
1  Ross Browner  
1  Luther Bradley  
2  Willie Fry  
3  Ernie Hughes  
s  Ted Burgmeier  
7  Steve McDaniels  
10  Doug Becker  

Irish N.F.L. draftees elated Becker-'a dream come true' 
by Gregory Solman Associate Sports Editor 
''I'm realling going to celebrate tonight)" laughed Doug Becker as he finished the last part of a bottle of champagne. With that, Becker, who went to the Pittsburgh Steelers in the tenth round yesterday, expressed the sentiments of many of his fellow football teammates, in what is becoming a banner year for J.!raduating seniors of the National­Championship squad. 
Becker joins btg Willie Fry, who went yesterday in the second round to the Steelers. 
Ernie Hullhes was drafted by San Francisco in the third round where he'll join Steve McDaniels, drafted by the 49ers in the seventh round, and Ken MacAfee to re­compose the entile right side of the Notre Dame line to block for O.J. "The Juice" Simpson. 
"It's going to be just great," exclaimed HuR]Ies, soon to become 
a 'California kind of guy', "After living around here for four years, the sunshine's going to be just great." 
Hughes also commented on the irony of playing next to two of his former teammates, "It is kind of strange that the whole right side of the line will be there, but I thing it will be really fanastic and I'm really looking forward to it.'' 
Ted Burgmeier wasn't left out of the wheeling and dealing either, as he will become a sunshine boy, picked by Miami as the first man in the fifth round. 
"I'm excited that I'm going to play for an established program under one of the greatest coaches in the NFL, Don Shula," comment­ed a jubilant Burgmeier, "I don't know exactly where I'll be playing, but I'll know better after a few days." 
Burgmeier leaves today for Flor­ida to meet with representatives there. 
Greenwood, Ernie Holmes, and Dwight White are first generation men, and now the Steelers are bringing the second generation players to replace them. 
"Pittsburgh's lineman are gettin getting older and they are looking for youth to step in. Willie will be able to fit in very well with the generation line and can learn the ropes from the experienced play· ers. The Steelers were after Willie just for that reason,'' explained Yonto. 
No one could be happier about this than Fry. 
"I am just tickled to death about the Steelers' first and second generation lines. I am elated to be able to learn from such great players and I don't think I could be in a better situation," noted the UPI second-team Air-American. 
A great career lies behind the 237 pound defensive end. Willie started this past season with eight tackles in the 19-9 win over Pittsburgh before spraining his ankle in the next contest at Mississippi. He bounced back to play in the big win over Southern Cal and played well the rest of thes season. Then came his outstanding performance in the Cotton Bowl. One fumble recovery, two sacks, and seven tackles were his contri­bution to Notre Dame's hooking of the Horn's, 38-10. It was Fry's second time as a member of a national championship team. 
"There is nothing comparable to going out on top like we did. We had some hard times that tested our character, but we survived the adversity that befell us. 
Being selected captain my junior year was the highlight of my years at Notre Dame. It showed me that my teammates had faith in me as a leader and as a man. Being captain again this past season was all the more an honor," commented Fry. 
"I have a philosophy when I am out on the field: actions speak louder than word. I try to project a positive image and set an example when I am out there. 
Team  Position  
San Francisco  TE  
Cincinnati  DE  
Detroit  DB  
Pittsburgh  DE  
San Francisco  OG  
Miami  DB  
San Francisco  OT  
Pittsburgh  LB  

Because of the level of play you almost have to be a student of the game. It takes a lot of concentra­tion and you have to search for tlte weaknesses of the other players. You cannot just go out and throw your weight around, you need technique," commented Fry, who will receive a Bachelor of Arts in economics upon graduating. 
Yonto has been Willie's coach throughout his career and recog­nizes what makes Fry an outstand­ing player. 
"Willie is a great pass rusher who know how to fight off blockers very well. His quickness and great range are assets as well. With his strength, mobility, and determina­tion he could be used on the defensive line to either rush or drop back as a linebacker. He should fit in very well in pro ball," noted the 14 year Irish defensive coach. 
Fry and Ross Browner were the bookends on the Irish defensive line. Willie enjoyed every moment. 
"Ross and I complemented one another in our styles of play. Ross 
~ 
would stop them on one side and chase them to me or I chased them to him. Either way we would t usually catch them. And let me say we both enjoyed it. And having fun is 'what it's all about." 
"" 
Willie was a standout athlete at " 
t 
...
Northside High School in Memphis where he was all-state and All-Am­erican as a senior in football. One Willie Fry: Blue and Gold to Black and Gold 
thing that stand out in his decision "It is difficult to compare Willie to come to Notre Dame to past players because they all ''Class. Notre Dame emanates played under different circum­class all the way. I saw it and stances. But I think it is very safe wanted to be part of it. 
to say that Willie is as great as anyI came to Notre Dame for the of them,'' commented Yonto, who best education and to develop my is knowns as the "All-American 
athletic ability to the fullest. I feel I Maker" for his distinguished de­have done both and if I could do it fensive lines. 
over, I would not change any­You might say that playing prothing,'' noted the three year football has been a lifelong drea'm starter. 
for Fry, as it is for thousands of Willie finished the 1977 regular youngsters. But Willie did not see campaign with 47 tackles and four that dream as a reality until he sacks for losses totaling 20 yards. 
came to Notre Dame. In addition he had one fumble ''I did not start thinking ser­recovery. And remember, he had iously about the pros until I came to sit out three games. here and realized that I might have 
Club's seasons wind to a close 
by Mike Henry Sports Writer 
Club sports are a perilous busi­
ness for its members, due to the 
lack of financing and information 
about the particular clubs. Ask Jay 
Kiley. captain of the sailing team, 
who spoke about his team while 
resting his broken foot on a chair. 
"Due to An Tostal, finals and 
other activites, its tough to gener­
ate interest in the program," Kiley 
said. "Nevertheless, there's a lot 
to look forward to, both now and in 
the fall." 
Kiley is speaking of the Midwest Collegiate Sailing Association -Championships, to be held at Michigan on May 13th and 14. To reach this, the Irish sailors must place in the top three at the Area A elimination this weekend. ''With luck, we should be going on to Michigan," Kiley continued. "The fall is our really big season, and, since most of out officers are freshmen and sophomores, the outlook is very bright." 
Due in part to Kiley's injury, the Irish did not fare well against tough competition at the North American 
Bookstore VII honors awarded 
Bookstore Basketball tournament chairman, Leo Latz has announce the following awards for Bookstore '78: 
********
Tournament M. V. P.-Tom Sudkamp Mr. Bookstore-Dana Snoap Mr. Hoosier-Bruce Martin Golden Hatchet-Dave Huffman Be~t team name-Leon Spinks and the Tooth Fairies Championships in Annapolis re­cently. However, on the final day the Irish took a fifth and a first against such outfits as Penn, USC, Harvard and MIT. Such perfor­mances bode very well for the future. Besides Kiley, such young skippers as John Goodil, Paul Mkaielski and Phil Reynolds will contribute to many Notre Dame victories in the future. 
The LaCrosse squad has been on a roller coaster ride of late beating Miami of Ohio 17-I. then losing to the Ohio State Buckeyes 13-1. Last weekend the club dropped a tough 15-13 decision to the Chicago Lacrosse Club by a 15-13 count, then trounced the Lake Forest club, 13-3. Pat Clynes, in his final match for the Irish, and freshmen Carl Lundbland and Tim Michalcs shone for the Irish, and superb goalkeeping was turned in by Steve Martinez and Rich Mazzei. The B team lost a nail-biter to Purdue, S-4, then were blasted by Hope College, 10-0. 
Both rugby squads battled John Carroll this weekend, and Notre Notre Dame came up with a spltt as the B team atoned f9r the A 
The AU-Bookstore selectinns for First Team are Dan .Short. Mike Miller, Bill Seegher, Jim Budde, and Kevin Hawkins. The Second Team selected as All-Bookstore includes Tim O'Neal, Jim Fritsch, Mike Howard, Mark Norman and Steve Notaro. Selections for Third Team were Jim Singer,Jim Kelly, 
Dave Lauer, Fred Beasley and Bill Murphy. The All-Devine included Jim Stone, Rusty Lisch, Steve McDaniels, Joe Montana and Willie Fry. 
j-t._;,"-::_.:· 
squad's 9-4 loss. In this match, Tom Smith's try accounted for the Irish total. The Irish were assessed a penalty that led to John Carroll's final three points. 
The final Notre Dame club to see action recently was the crew, which participated in the Midwest Championships at Madison, Wis­consin this part weekend. The varsity eight failed the place in their heat, but won the consolation race which they were forced to enter. The junior varsity was more successful. as they finished a strong second to Wisconsin and received silver medals for their efforts. 
The women·.> lightweight four also performed admirably. picking up bronze medals by finishing just two and .8 seconds behind Nebras­ka and Purdue. respectively. Jill DeLucia anchored the lady rower-,. 
The Notre Dame club sporb member~ are to be congratulated on their efforts this year. Hats off to these individu<tls who toil in obscurity but participate for .bene­tits that cannot be measured in terms of finances ur media expo­sure. 
the potential. Pro football is a glamorous sport and I decided to give it my every effort." 
Now Willie get his chance to fulfill his dream. 
"I expect to be going through a learning process the first season. and then within the next year or so, I hope to come into my own. I still look forward to contributing some­thing next season, though." 
Pro football is no easy occupation, and not many college players make it. It takes determination and hard work. 
And you know something? For Willie Fry, there is just no other way 



