
----~ ~---.,.......--......----·----,-·----­



The Observer 


an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's 
a,, 

Vol. XII, No. 98 Wednesday, March 8, 1978 
In SBP-SBVP elections
Andy McKenna [right] and Mike Roohan came out on top with 44.6 percent of the vote in yesterday's SBP-SBVP election. [photo' by john Calcutt] 

Run-off necessary
Breakdown 
McKenna/ SchlageterI Blanco/ by Barb Langhenry News Editor 
Roohan Rizzo Ewing Other 

Alumni  97  59  29  2  Student Body President and Vice-Presidential candidates Andy  
Badin  57  23  11  1  McKenna/Mike Roohan and Mikt SchlageterI Jayne Rizzo will meet  
Breen-Phlllips  65  92  16  0  in a run-off election tomorrow. Approximately 58 percent of the  
Carroll  18  22  13  1  studen body voted yesterday to determine these run-off candi­ 
Cavanaugh  76  52  24  2  dates. The McKenna/Roohan ticket  
Dlllon  64  62  30  36  emerged on top, with 1744 votes, or 44.6 percent of the votes cast.  
Farley  78  54  37  1  Schlageter and Rizzo followed closely with 1457 votes, or 37.2  
Fisher  62  22  26  6  percent of the votes cast. Bruce Blanco and Carey Ewing were  
Flanner  88  106  43  4  eliminated from the race with 577 votes, or 14.7 percent of the votes  
Grace  28  234  24  35  cast. Schlageter and Rizzo expressed  
Holy Cross  58  31  35  0  concern that "in light of the poor tumour" for yesterday's primary  
Howard  89  41  15  9  election, student  ''the body  true has  spirit of the not been  
Keenan  89  95  44  s  accurately represented.''  
Lewis  88  81  21  1  "The decisive held tomorrow,  election, to be will offer the  
students a clear-cut cut choice and  
Lyons  77  85  13  3  we encourage our >ilent supporters  
Morrissey  175  47  45  11  to vote," Rizzo said. She stated that her ticket "stands for the kind  
Pangborn  51  82  20  4  of leadership that takes an active role on behalf of the Notre Dame  
St. Edward's  98  14  8  2  students." The candidates stated, "We do not believe in perserving  
Sorin  39  38  27  4  the status quo and we are sensitive and open to many needs which  
Stanford  97  57  34  4  must be answered."  recognized  and  
Walsh  99  43  12  1  McKenna and Roohan expressed their thanks to everyone who  
Zahm  100  81  30  helped them and encouraged people to vote tomorrow, "RE·:  
Off-campus  51  36.  20  2  GARDLESS OF WHO THEY ARE VOTING FOR." "We ask people  
Total  1744  1457  577  135  to review candidates'  the platforms, the ability to implement  
o/o of votes cast  44.6%  37.2%  14.7o/o  3.So/o  these  platforms,  and  their  past  


HUD loan to update heating 
by Diane WUson the power house which will allow saving devices for classroom build­Senior Staff Reporter the University to have control over ing, such as the lights that turn off the heat, Riehle said. Presently automatically in O'Shaughnessy. 
The $1.603 million loan that has 

this is not possible. O'Conner explained that the loan 
been awarded to Notre Dame to 
Wilson said he hopes that the approval policy is. a two part
modernize its dorm heating sys­
construction can be started this process. In the first part the
tems is presently in the final stages 
spring and be almost complete by University submits an application
of approval by Housing and Urban 
the time students come back this stating what they want the funds
Development (HUD), according to 
fall. for. At that time ~ it must also
John O'Conner, aide to Indiana 
The results of a Pangborn Hall submit plans for the project. H the
congressman John Brademas. 
test, which examined the effective­project meets the HUD's qualifica­
Fr. Jerome J. Wilson, executive 

ness of the system prove that the tions for the loan then it is
administrator of physical plant 
modernization would be more ef­awarded.
maintenance, travelled to Indian­
ficient;, Riehle explained. The The second part calls for the
apolis last week to present the final 
basement of Pangborn, where the University to draw up detailed
plans for the modernization to 
test was conducted, used 35 per­plans and cost figures for the
HUD. He said they are looking 
cent less steam that the five other proposal and submit them to HUD
over his plans and estimates and 
dorms it was compared with. for approval. HUD will then make 
"should let us know soon" about 
Riehle estimated that with hall­the allocation, keeping in mind all
the outcome of the approval of the 
wide use, the new heating system of the loans that they have ap­
loan. 
could save SO percent of the proved for that year.
Fr. James Riehle, director of 

amount of steam it uses now. 'This According to Wilson, it has been 
energy conservation, stated that 
would save the University approx­a long time since HUD has given
the money would be used to 
imately $300,000 a year, he said. any loans to universities. Most of 
modernize the heating system in 
According to Riehle, the heating the loans in the past few years have 
each of the dorms. He said this 
system is planned for all 21 dorms, gone toward private construction. 
would include individual themo­
but there are no plans of this type The loan would be paid back over 
stats being installed in each room, 
for the classroom buildings yet. an extended period of time, at least
and all radiators being put into 
He noted that the University has 20 years, at a low government rate
good working order. 
already implemented other energy-of ~t~rest, W~son noted.
There will M a central panel in 

experience,'' McKenna com-campaign," Ewing addea. mented. A run-off election. will be held
Blanco and Ewing stated, "The 
tomorrow. On campus student!>

'New Perspective" offers its 
may vote from 11:30 a.m. to 1 p.m

warmest congratulations to Andy 
1 and from 5 p.m. to 6:30 p.m. iJ 

McKenna/Mike Roohan and Mike 
their residence halls. Off campul.

Schlageter/ Jayne Rizzo." "We 
students can vote from 11 a.m. to">

would like to thank all of ·our 
p.m. in the Huddle. Seniors may

supporters for their dedication and 
vote. 

endurance throughout the 

.' 
•

'(\'\ 
,. 
•
... !r, 
f~ 
\ 

Mike Schlageter [right] and Jayne Rizzo received 37.2 percent of the vote. They face McKenna/Roohan in a run-of election tomorrow. [photo by john Calcutt] 
Governors vow to keep peace if mines r~open 
[AP]-Governors in coal country One group kept a vigil over a coal vowed yesterday to keep the peace train they had surrounded Monday if mines reopen under a Taft-Hart" night in Tuscola, Ill., blocking its ley order despised by many striking passage to Terre Haute, Ind. miners. Some, hoping miners The United Auto Workers an­would obey the order, would not 
nounced in Washington that it will 

reveal their plans. Others warned contribute $2 million to a relief of using the National Guard. 
·fund to help the families of striking 

Several added, with regret, that coal miners and pensioners. any special protection against vio­
lence would mean And in Dilles Bottom, Ohio, where 
digging deep members of United Mine Workersinto state treasuries. 

(UMW) District 6 were at a briefingVirginia Gov. John Dalton made on the Taft-Hartley law, Bill Lamb,the most dramatic announcement: an international executive board He declared a state of emergency, member, said: 

said he had sent hundreds of state policemen into coal-mining areas, "I am very doubtful that the 
miners are going back if this order and added that he would use goes through. Some of these menNational Guard troops, if necessary fear_reprisals. '' to prevent coalfield violence. 

·Alabama Gov. George 0 Wal­

"We are intent on seeing in lace's press secretary, Billy Joe Virginia that anyone who wants to Camp, said, Wallace will "do his mine and move coal will be best to protect the lives and 
protected," said Dalton. When property of the people of Ala­asked whether he would authorize bama." But, he said, "the gover­guardsmen to be equipped with nor has no reason to expect anylive ammunition, he answered, 'problems ... He hopes and prays"Yes, sir." there is not." 
Then he added that he hoped the guard would not be needed. "It's 
Camp would not say whether any special steps ~ave been taken. Butan expensive proposition," he said. 

four platoons of state troopers have 

Miners angry been on duty since Jan. 6 at mine 
locations in northwest and central 

Meanwhile, there were indica­Alabama. 
tions that many miners remained 
angry-and ready !~ hold O!Jt. [continued on pag• 1lU 
_j• 



--------,---------­
Wednesday, March 8, 1978
the observer 



,.....News Briefs______...._,. 

Local 


WEATHER 
Becoming partly cloudy this afternoon. High near 30. Clearing and 
cold tonight with lows in the mid to upper teens. Sunny and warmer 
tomorrow. High in the upper 30s. 

~On Campus Today _ _____, 
12:15 pm ~:15 pm 

3:25pm 
4:15pm 
4:30pm 
7, 9:15, 
11:30 pm 7:30pm 
7:30pm 
8 pm 
8 pm 
8:15pm 
8:30pm 
9-11 pm 
9:30pm 9:30pm 
10 pm 
Thursday 

9-11:15 am 1-'3:15 pm 
album fails, W'urphey fanatics will prob· is a sentimental favorite for most airplay ... 
_.____________________________________________________,
ably appreciat•; his effort. naturally. 
mass, fr. griffin, celebrant, Iafortune ballroom. 
career workshop, information gathering & job search, betty twithchell, 170 lemans. sponsored by career development center. 
semina~, "some key aspects of american history," prof. vmcent p. desantis, 265 chem. engr. bldg., sponsored by chem. engr. dept. 
meeting, redbud summer art workshop, moreau gallery-smc, sponsored by smc art dept. 
dreyfus lecture, "dynamics of gas.surface reactions: 
oxidations on metal surfaces," prof. leonard wharton, james frank instit., univ. of chicago. 123 nieuwland, sponsored by chem. 1dept. 
film, "dog day afternoon," engr. aud., sponsored by primary day school, $1. 
film, "citizen kane," orson welles, 232 moreau, smc. sponsored by nd film society and spdr dept. 
talk, "Sexism: unlearning the myths," e. marcis sheridan, iusb, carroll hall-smc. 
talk, "pr,:!ferential treatment, "prof. richard wasser strom, ucla. galvin aud. sponsored by philosophy dept. 
lecture, "struggle for a new world order," jeremiah novak, area study reading rm, 12th floor mem. lib. sponsored by world humger coalition. 
" 
recital, john humphrey, pianist, lib aud & lounge. sponsored by music dept. 
lecture "memory of past & future" elizabeth sewell, 122 hayes-healy aud. sponsored by english dept. 
nazz, jazz in the nazz, basement of Iafortune. 
film, "night and fog," alain renais,• 232 moreau, smc. sponsored by nd film society and spdr dept. 
lenten talk, "relating to the spiritual world," rev. morton kelsey, st. ed's chapel. 
prayer service of reconciliation, badin chapel. 
blood donation, keenan & farley, infirmary. 
Michael Murphey, opening act for America this Thursday evening at the ACC, has released a new album entitled "Lone Wolf." The album is predictable, in that there is very little departure from traditional Murphey themes and musical structures. Two songs deal with the mistreatment of the American Indian by the white man, a familiar topic for Murphey. 
The album is slow paced, with only "Paradise Tonight," and "Loners" coming anywhere close to being termed "Up-tempo." In fact, the lyrical gem on the record, "Loving Time," is bogged down by the sluggish music. "Night Patrol," on side two, is the best song on the album. There is a good use of horns on this cut, giving it a slightly jazzy touch. The album features Victor Feldman on congas, Mike Botts on drums, and Bill Payne on horns. It appears that Michael Murphey is: .becoming\ to progressive music what John Denver has become to pop. He is trying too hard to fill his albums with Colorado mountain imagery. The result is 
'bland and disappointing. Though thcr~ 

Dragon is the top rock band in Australia, and their tight, funky style will undoubted­ly earn them a good deal of money over here, too ... and deservedly so. Their debut album here in America is one of the few which can hold a listener's interest from beginning to end. They are strong and crisp and yet still know how to have fun with their music. 
"Same Old Blues," "Biacktown Boogie," and "Sunshine" are probably the best tunes on the disc, but "Get that Jive" 
.......---,.--­


Explosi·on forces evacuation 
schoolchildren.
VICKSBURG; Miss. [AP] -An 

explosion ripped open an insecti­Four workers at the Vicksburg 
cide tank at a Chemical Co. plant were treated at
chemical company yesterday, sending flames and toxic smoke into the sky and forcing the evacuation of more than 1,200 people, including hundreds of 
Long Island Club 
to meet 

The Long Island Club will m tomorrow in the theater in ~aFor­tune at 6:30 p.m. Those interested in the luggage truck should attend. The upcoming kegger or happy hour will also be discussed. For more information call Kevin at 
1181. 
SMC to hold 


room picks· 
All Saint Mary's students inter­

ested in room selection for next 
year should be aware of the 
following: 
The Augusta Hall room lottery 

will be held tomorrow at 6:30 p.m. 
in the Augusta North lounge. All 
that is necessary is an ID. Room 
selections for Augusta will be 
Monday at 6:30 p.m. in the 
Augusta North lounge. An ID and 
a room deposit receipt are neces­sary in order to chosse a room. 
Resident advisor room selections will be held Mar. 15 and 16. All campus room lotteries will follow an March 30 at 6:30 p.m. in each class's designated area. 
All campus room selection will :4.-4...............~• ....,.........~..~·.,_4.._4• ..,........... 
occur on Apr. 3 for juniors, Apr. 4 for sophomores, Apr. 5 for fresh­men with numbers 1 through 200, and Apr. 6 for remaining freshmen. 



JUfJfJlER 

Room deposit slips are only required for room selection, not for room lotteries. Mar. 31 is the deposit deadline for all classes. 
*The Observer 

Night Editor: Rosemary Mills Asst. Night Editor: Tom Behney layout Staff: Sue Johnoton, Lenore Koczon Editorial layout: Maureen Flynn features layout: Brzhob Stachowiak Sports layout: Paul Stevenson Typists: Theresa Richeson, Beth Rizzo, Mark Rust, Katie Burke Too Early In the Morning Typist: me SMC Day Editor: Lynn Roberts NO Day Editor: Kathy Con­nelly Copy Reader: Bob Varettoni Photographer: Kevin Walsh Why do the easy nights turn 
out to be so difficult for me? 
The Observer Is published Mori­d•y tllrougll Frkl8y except durin• ex•m •nd VK8tlon periods. Tl)e Observer Is published by tile students of Notre O.me •nd S•lnt M•rv•s College. Subscriptions m8y be purdi8Sed for $20 per ye8r (S 1 o per semester) from The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre D•me, lndl•n• 46556. Second ct•ss poat•ge p8ld, Notre D•me. lndl•n•, 46556. . The Observer 11 • member ef the AIIOCI8ted Press. All repro­duction rights •re res•rved. 

a hospital and one was admitted with burns on his face and hands. 
The Highway Patrol and Warren County sheriffs office also receiv­ed several calls from persons complaining of severe headaches and skin burns after driving through the smoke on Interstate 20 near the Mississippi River plant. But area hospitals said only one person had sought treatment for a severe headache. 
About 700 pupils at Jett Elemen­tary School and about 300 residents along U.S. highway 61 in the 
Saturday & Sunday~ c 11, 12 March 1:OOpm ·­­
.s::: 

Callbacks Sun. Mar. 12 -7:00 pm. Materials for auditions available in Speech and jDrama Office, Room 110, Moreau Hall, Saint ... Mary's. Open to all NO-St. Mary's Students. 0 
southern part of Vicksburg were evacuated, said Luther Warnock Jr., W arrerr County Civil Defense director. 

J-Board commissioners must meet 
There will be a mandatory meeting for all hall J-board com­missioners tonight at 7 p.m. in the Student Government offices. Ballot boxes for tomorrow's elec­tion will be distributed and voting procedures will be explained. 




J:j 

Wednesday, March 8, 1978 
the observer 

HPC votes to support Alcohol Awareness Week 
by Michael Lewis scheduled for Apr. 6-10. 

Senior Staff Reporter Holy Cross President Ted Howard stated that the program The Hall President's Council would "stress alternatives to simp­(HPC) unanimously voted last ly drinking, when drinking can be a to endorse and support the upcom­part but not the chief focus" of ing Alcohol Awareness Week, social events. He emphasized that 




Ted Howard and Marylou Walsh at las Night's HPC meeting [photo by Kevin Walsh] 


Senate agrees to support Carter's energy proposal 
Washington [AP) -Senate energy conferees broke their three-month impasse on President Carter's en­ergy bill yesterday by informally agreeing to support a compromise proposal to lift price controls from natural gas by Jan. 1, 1985. 
Meanwhile, Sen. Russell Long, chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, said the other major part of Carter's plan-a tax on domestic crude oil-will not pass the Senate "under any imaginable set of circumstances." 
Sen. Henry M. Jackson (D-Wash.) leader of the Senate conferees, said he will meet with House energy leaders today in an effort to resume formal bargaining between the two chambers on the naturill gas issue. 
"We're no longer dead-locked," Jackson told reporters. "We're moving toward an agreement." 
Although formal votes were not taken, it became clear late yester­day afternoon that the proposal had the needed nine votes to end the deadlock among the 17 Senate negotiators. 
Jackson indicated that he and five other Democrats on the panel would support the measure. Three Republicans-Pete Domenici of New Mexico, James McClure of Idaho and Mark Hatfield of Oregon-also came out in support of the pro­posed compromise. 
It was the first break in the stalemate that has stymied action on the president's energy bill since last Dec. 2, when House-Senate energy conferees first took up the natural gas pricing issue. 
The House passed Carter's pro­posal to keep price controls on natural gas, but the Senate voted to deregulate the price of gas after two years. 
Until yesterday, leaders were unable to muster majority support among the Senate negotiators for any compromise proposal. 
Under the tentative agreement, hammered out last week in three days of meeting attended by Energy Secretary James R. Schle­singer, price lids would come off newly-found gas by Jan 1, 1985. But either the president or Con­gress could reimpose them for a single two-year period. 
The proposal would also allow the regulated price of natural gas to about double between now and when the lids come off. 
Jackson conceded that the pro­posed compromise was more gene­rous to gas producers than the House-passed bill, which would cost consumers about $20 million, although that figure has been disputed. 
Aides said the compromise might cost consumers $15 billion to $17 billion more through 1985 then that measure. By comparison, the ad­ministration has estimated the Senate-passed deregulation bill would cost consumers $70 billion through 1985. 
James Plug, director of Evergy Action, a consumer group inter­ested in evergy legislation, told reporters that the new compromise would cost the average family of four at least $1,000 more through 1985 than under the current system of federal price regulation. 
He said that is about double the added cost that might be antici­C»"-t..,v.:.J. a.. 41 

We Dltllr ... 
.... n •• 

To save money, buy your boots and shoes On Campus from TONY! Call 


283-1144
. . , , , .-• ,·. 

L---------------------------~ 
the program wouldn't "point fing­
ers" or comdemn the drinking 
aspect of student social life. 
''Alcohol is a very accepted part 
ofthe social atmosphere here," he 
continued, "and it isn't the posi­
tion of the committee that it 
shouldn't be." He added that the 
event would explore "a number of 
ways to stress reponsible drink­
ing." 
"We hope to follow this up with other programs and activities," Howard said. He added that it is ·the responsibility of those in leadership positions to "keep 1>eople aware that, if they allow it to their drinking can become a prob­
lem for them and for others." 
AnTostal Chairman John Rooney also spoke at the meeting, and distributed descriptions of various 
carnival booths available for hall sponsorship. There are four types of games available, which vary according to rent, number of workers needed and "revenue potential,'' Rooney said. There will be approximately 15 booths at the festival. 
''As far as what we'll do with the money, we'll talk about that later," he said, indicating that the revenue will probably be split between the halls and a charity. 
Later in the meeting, HPC Chairman J.P. Russell announced the upcoming elections of next year's HPC Chairman. An election committee was formed, consisting of HPC Secretary Kristin Quann, Howard President Jim Daly and Farly President Marylou Walsh. The election is scheduled for April 11. 
Mary Ann Wissel, President of Walsh, asked if the HPC wished to contact the University Administra­tion endorsing the recommenda­tions of the Security Audit, Inc., hired to evaluate campus security. The Council decided to hold its endorsement to see if the HPC would be allowed to review the recommendations. 
Wissell also suggested an HPC sponsored reception, to include the newly-elected leaders of Student Government, Student Union, the Observer, and the hall presidents. The HPC unanimously agreed to sponsor such an event. 
Mark Huard, the HPC represen­tative to the Campus Life Council (CLC), reported on the recently rejected keg proposal. Huard stated that both views were well taken, and that the issue, he felt, shouldn't center on kegs. 
"In any case you're going to have kids drinking, whether it's cans or kegs is academic," he said. "The problem is the party policy," he pointed out, adding that he plans to submit a party policy recommendation to the CLC at the 
next meeting. 
GOD 

Respectfully Requests The Same Consideration You Might Give... 
... IBM 
... Exxon 
... Law­

• • • Medicine Before You Decide What You Want To Do With Your Life 
You're undoubtedly at a point where you are seriously considering what you should do with your life-after college. 
Do, include the Catholic priesthood in your options. "At least, check out what this specialized work for God involves. 
You can do so on a test-it, no-risk, live-in basis-in the 
Crosier Residency Program. 
Here's a way to help you make up your mind-at your own pace-about whether the Crosier priesthood is for you­while continuing your education. 
(The Crosiers. known formally as the Order of the Holy Cross, one of the oldest religious orders of men in the Catholic Church, date back to the Challenging opportunity for a Professional to Sell to the 
1200's.) Institutional Trade ....(Hospitals, schools, etc.) 
As a Crosier resident, you'll 
' 

Economics Laboratory, Inc., a leader in the field of
live in an unrestricted 
environmental sanitation and chemical cleaning with sales in
atmosphere conducive to 
excess of $358 million (A Fortune 500 Company). hassmaking the most important immediate openings for individuals with aggressive, confident decision of your life. In the personalities. The postion includes a six month formalized warm, congenial,· stimulating training program ·within an exisiting territory and requires 
above average mechanical apptitude. Salary plus commssion.
environment of Crosier House, 
Excellent benefits include a company car and expenses.
you'll Jearn how the priests and 
brothers live and work. You'll FOR MORE INFORMATION CONTACT THE PALCEMEh 1 have every opportunity to give OFFICE. INTERVIEWS WILL BE HELD THE WEEK OF MARCH 13th.
thoughtful and prayerful consideration to working for God as a Crosier priest or brother. 
.............. Clip and MaO Today! ............. . ECONOMICS LABORATORY INC. 
Father James Vedro, O.S.C. 
Personnel and Industrial Relations Crosier House 370 Wabasha Osborn Bldg. 2620 E. Wallen Road 
St. Paul, Minnesota, 55102 
Fort Wayne, IN. 4611! 
Tell me more about the Crosilr 
We are an equal opportunity employer
Residency Program. 


Name--------------~----
ColJece -----------------­Phone Address ---------------­
•.• City __,.:..........,_"'--state_.___llp__. · 

' 

FBI praise of Marston's work censored byJustice Department 
WASIDNGTON [AP) ·The unex­ tion from the American people and  and  Bell  were  not  involved  in  
purgated  version  of  a  Justice  protect  their  own  image  at  the  wrong  doing,  the  department  
Department  official's  affidavit  apparent expense of justice."  released  edited  versions  of·  
shows the department deleted FBI  He said he found  "particularly  affidavits of Baker and other Bell  
praise  for  the  work  of  David  outrageous"  the  excisions  made  aids.  
Marston as U.S. attorney in Phila­ from  the  affidavit  of  Baker,  a  At the time, the department saiC.  
delphia  before  the  department  former  top  aide  in  the  Justice  the deletions were made to conceal  
made public a censored version of  Department's criminal division and  whether there was a current Justice  
the affidavit.  now  the acting U.S.  attorney for  Lepartment probe of Philadelphia  
The unedited affidavit of Russell  Maryland.  political corruption.  
P. Baker Jr.  also shows  that the  Delker's  affidavit  was  taken  in  The Senate Judiciary Committee  
department's  public  version  January  as  part  of  the  Justice I  later asked the department for the  
dropped  an  FBI official's warning  Department's  investigation  into  unexpurgated  affidavits.  These  
that Philadelphia was a "cesspool"  whether  President  Carter  or  were released yesterday.  
of political corruption and that this  Attorney General Griffin Bell were  In  the  edited  version,  Bake  

warning was passed on to high involved in any obstruction of department officials. justice in seeking to remove Mars­
The new disclosures prompted ton as federal prosecutor at a time Sen. Malcolm Wallop (R-Wyo.) to he was investigating Rep. Joshua charge yesterday that the Justice Eilberg (D-Pa). . Department and maybe the White When the Justice Department House "sought to conceal informa-concluded in January that Carter 

Actors insult army; given threeJ years\ 
BARCELONA, Spain [AP] -A i military court sentenced four! members of Spain's leading: pantomime group yesterday to two years in prison for insulting the army. The decision threatened to set off a nation-wide theater strike and street demonstations. 
Within hours of the verdict and 
sentencing, angry actors, stage­
hands and theater workers in 
1\.ad~id and Barcelona called for a 
nationwide strike, a march against 
Parliament and demonstrations in 
the streets for· freedom of expres­
sion. 
The trial by a four-man court martial was held despite efforts by some government officials and liberal political leaders to get a ci viiian trial or to have it put off indefinitely. 
The army suspended the trial a week ago after the director of the pantomime group, Albert Boa!lella, fled police custody in a Barcelona hospital 24 hours before the court martial and escaped to Belgium. Another actor, Ferran Rene, ran to France. 
Political parties welcomed news of the suspension. But over the weekend the army suddenly ordered the four remaining . members of Els Joglars-Catalan for the jugglers-to trial Monday. 
In a 13-hour session, the prosecution asked three-year terms for actors Gabriel Renom, Andreu Solsona and Arnau Vilardebo and 

insulted the army with a play about 
the 1974 garotte execution of two 
men convicted by a court martial. 
Civilian lawyers for the actors said 
the play was against the death 
penalty, not the army. 

The sentences do not become 
effective until confirmed by Lt. 
Gen. Francisco Coloma Gallegos, 
captain general of the Bacelona 
military region who ordered the 
troupe put on trial. The actors' 
lawyers said no practical appeal 
was possible but they would ask the 
army supreme court to grant 
amnesty. 

The freedom of Expression Committee in Barcelona said it was planning a -march on Parliament today to protest the court martial and sentences. 
In Madrid more than 100 actors, singers, dancers and theater workers sent delegations to all of the major political parties asking them to back a general theater strike and street demonstrations. 
A protest strike against the indictment of the pantomime group shut down most of Spain's theaters three days before Christmas. 
Although it is known that Premier Adolfo Suarez' centrist government would have liked to have seen the court martial laid aside because of damage to Spain's democratic image after years of Franco censorship, high army officials insisted that it was not a civilian matter and the reputation 
of the armed forces was at stake. prosecution charged the four 
actress Miriam de Maeztu. The 

SMC establishes history honor society chapter 
The Psi Lambda chapter of Phi Alpha fheta, the international honor st.ciety in history, was estab­lished at Saint Mary's College last Thursday. Robert Sutton, profes­sor at the University of Illinois and a member of the Society's board of trustees, let the installation ritual. 
To be eligible for induction into the Society .1 student must be in the upper 35 percent of her class with a minimum of twelve hours in hist­ory. She must also have a 3.0 grade point average in history and a 3.1 average in non-history cour­ses. 
The new members of Psi Lambda are Mary Ann Coleman, president; Sara Conway, vice-president and oresident-elect; Martha Wylie, ;ecretary-treasurer; Pamela Wolf, ristorian; and Sandra Colson, L.allra O'Dell, Julie Brennan, ~.aroline Moore, Christi Bock, \'iary Anne Dempsey, Mary Ann rerguson, Diane Klucka, Mary Phillips, Judy Vanderheyden, aand 
Cheri Petride. 
Jack Detzler, SMC professor of history and a member of the Society as an undergraduate, if the faculty advisor. 

Phi Alpha Theta was organized •• lit. 1.h!!. l!,l!,iy~rs_ity.!'_f1 ~r~af!_~a.s Jr. 1921 and now has 'tVV chapters. 
making it the largest of the 
accredited honor societies in the Association of College Honor Soci­eties in the Association of College Honor Societies. 
The Society offers awards for scholarly papers and graduate study in history. It also offers book awards for historical publications. 
St. Mary's hosts area math contest 
The second Michiana Mathemat­ics Contest for Women will be held at Saint Mary's on Apr. 8. Area and state school students · will compete in individual and team 
contests. 

A team will consist of nine women from a single high school. Three will compete in each subject matter area: Geometry, Algebra U, referred to a conversation he had i mid-September with Neil Weld the special agent in charge of tl FBI office in Philadelphia. 
The unedited version showt that the following language wa" deleted from Baker's affidavit: 
"Welch urged me to report back to Washington that Philadelphili was a 'cesspool' of political corrup­tion, that Marston was doing an excellent job and that it wa important to retain him.'' 
Also deleted was Baker's state­
ment that he had reported this on his return from Philadelphia to Benjamin R. Civiletti, head of the 1ustice Department'.s criminal division and now acting deputy attorney general, and also to Associate Attorney General Michael 1. Egan. 
Wallop said these deletions apparently were to conceal that as early as September, Egan and Civiletti had been informed that Philadelphia was a "cesspool" of political corruption and that "Marston was doing and excellent job and should be retained." 
Eilberg called Carter last Nov. 4 .·to urge that Marston be replaced. 
. Carter acknowledged he then aske Bell to expedite Marston' removal, although Carter said h was unaware that Eilberg might be involved in an investigation by Marston's office. 

ND prof Bender witness for trial on discrimination 
Notre Dame geneticist Dr. Harvey 
A. Bender has been asked to appear next week as an expert witness in a California trial chal­lenging the practice of grouping children in special education clas­ses on the basis of IQ scores. 
Six black students in San Fran­cisco filed suit in 1971 against the city and state boards of education for alleged deliberate racial discri­mination against them. They werer placed in classes for "educable mentally retarded" (EMR) after , receiving low scores on standard­ized IQ tests. The trial opened Oct. 11 in U.S. District Court in San Francisco. 
Bender, who will testify for the plaintiffs on Tuesday, said he 

expects to be questioned about the larger issue of whether the dispro­portionately large number of black · children assigned to EMR classes can be justified by claiming that IQ tests measure genetic differences between races. 
The Notre Dame professor of biology said that a consistent IS-point difference in scores bet­ween racial groups is "measuring t something quite real--cultural dif­ferences, but what is not measured , 
is a genetic difference in intelli-I gence. 
There are no techniques available· that can show differences in char-. acteristics between the races," 
1 
Bender said. "I'm sorry that they I don't have an adequate test instru­ment, but they are doing a disser­vice to these youngsters.'' 
He said he plans to use a 



Minorities Fellowship deadline extended 
The first fellowships awardedThe application deadline for the 
the Minorities Fellowship Progra 

inorities Fellowship Program, 
will be announced on Apr. 1.

ponsored by the Committee on Additional recipients will benstitutional Cooperation (CIC) and nounced in mid-April. 
L ministered by Indiana Univer­lty, has been extended from Mar. 
The Minorities Fellowship Pr until Mar. 22. 

gram is funded by a grant from th Lilly Endowment, Inc. The direct Each fellowship provides tuition is William H. Harris, IU associatnd fees plus a $4,000 stipend for professor of history. 

tudents doing graduate work in e social sciences at any one of the Persons interested in applicati IC universities--the Big Ten forms or information should writ chools or the University of Chica-to: Minorities Fellowship Program, Bryan Hall 1, Indiana University, Bloomin ton, IN 47401. 
COLLEGE GRADUATES 

DON'T TAKE CHANCES WITH YOUR PARALEGAL CAREER­NOT ALL LAWYER'S ASSISTANT PROGRAMS ARE THE SAME 
A Roosevelt University Lawyer's Assistant rep­resents the mark of quality and acceptance in today's legal community. 
If you are a college graduate and qualify, why not giveyourself an advantage by attending Roosevelt Univer­sity's Lawyer's As!;istant Program which is fully ac­credited by the American Bar Association. 
Since the Fall of 1974, 745 ~raduates representing over 160 colleges and universitres have chosen Roose­velt's Lawyer's Assistant Program for thP.ir career training. 
Specialize in: Corporations-Estates, Trusts and Wills -Litigation-Real Estate and Mortgages-EmployeeBenefit Plans*-or become a Generalist*. 
Over 225 law firms, banks, corporations and govern­mental agencies throughout the United States have hired Roosevelt graduates. 
SESSIONS 

0 Spring Day/February 13-May 5, 1978 0 Spring Evening!Ma'rch 14-August 26, 1978 0 Summer Day/June 12-September 1, 1978 0 Fall Day/Septembet 25--December 15, 1978 0 Fall Evening/September 12, 1978--March 3, 1979 
• evening prog111m only. 
Recruiter in Placement Office Hon. Harch lOth 
r----------SEND TODAY ----------· 
Lawyer's Auistant ,.,_m 
ROOSEVELT UNIVERSITY (312) 341-3882 
430 South Michigan Avenue ~~ 
Chicago, Illinois 60605 ND 
Please send me information on Roosevelt's Paralegal Program. D Sprir.-' Day Program D Spring Evening Program D Summer Day Program D Fall Day [j Fall Evening 
Name_~_ .. __ 
Address 
City _ _ _ _ _ _state ~ Zip __ ___ _ 
Roosevelt University admits students on the basis of Indi­vidual merit and wothout regard to race, color, creed, sex, or physical handicap. 
~-------------------------­
Sunshine Promotions Notre Dame Student Union 
Present 
Special GLest Star 



BOB WELCH 

also CLOVER WEDNESDAY MARCH 15 -7:30pm NOTRE DAME ACC 
All Seats Reserved; $7.00 S $6.00 
On Sale Now at Student Ticket ____Office and al--ACC Box Office 
and Advanced Mathematics. 

The entry fee is $20 a team. Applications must be postmarked no later than Friday, and fees must be paid no later then Mar. 24. 
For more information contact po_n !J.!ll~a.~.~MC _a,s~is~Qt P!Q(es: sor of mathematics. 
resolution adopted by the Genetics Society of America in April, 1976, as the basis of his testimony. Among other points made, the resolution emphasized that "there is no convincing evidence of gene­

.tic difference. in. .intelligence bet­ween races." 
Wednesday, March 8, 1978 the observer 
If act fails 
' 






Carter considers seizure of mines 


Washington [AP] • The Carter has been instrumental in. Miller, reflecting the feelings of Strauss, however, disclosed that "We now think we could postpone administration is actively consider­administration efforts to settle the many rank-and-file miners, said he he and other administration offic-indefinitely the day of economic ing st>izure of coal mines if striking dispute. would prefer to have miners return catastrophe," said one administra­
ials originally argued for simultan­
mine;<> defy a back-to-work order to work in governm<>nt-operated tion official." 
Meanwhile, the board of inquiry eous initiation of Taft-Hartley and
isslieu under the Taft-Hartley Act, mines rather than under a Taft­
Carter appointed under the Taft­the drafting of legislation on Capi-Administration officials said they
a key White House official said Hartley injunction. 
were hopeful that at least someHartley Act began preparation of ayesterday. 

tol Hill that ;ould lead to -a
report the president needs to seek a Few administration officials have miners would obey a back-to-work back-to-work court order. The been willing to speculate on seizure government tak Jver of the mines. order once it was issued. They said 
Specia.-trade negotiator Robery of the mines out of concern that Strauss said on·_ factor that work­miners who resisted would find Strauss said requesting seizure board called a closed meeting for miners will be encouraged to defy a ed against the seizure option was themselves without food stamns. 
authority from Congress remains today to hear from representatives court injunction ordering them -administration uncertainty over the "The administration will actpro­an option in the -92-day strike, of both sides in the dispute, and a back to work. length of time it would have taken mptly," said Joe Shepherd, deputy although President Carter rejected spokesman said he expected the Talk of government seizure had to get Congress to authorize such director of the food stamp program. 
an immediate takeover when he panel's report to be at the White waned Monday following Carter's authority. 
"If the courts order the miners

invoked the Taft-Hartley Act on House by tomorrow. nationally broadcast Taft-Hartley When Carter invoked the Taft­back to work and they refuse, there 
Monday. announcement. A White House hartley Act on Monday he de­is provision in our regulations forclared that the nation could wait no
And United Mine Workers Pres-terminating food stamp recipi­
longer fnr him to act to end the
"1 don't think it's out the window ident Arnold Miller said in an official privately ruled out seizure, ents." but we've got to take a run at this.'' interview yesterday he believes although Labor Secretary Ray Mar­In addition, administration of-
strike.
said Strauss of the effort to get some miners will obey a back -to--shall said Monday that the adm:n­The president's decision to invoke 
miners back to work under a work order, but added, "There will istration was prepared to propose ficials expressed the hope that Taft-Hartley injunction Strauss be problems." the necessary legislation. the law, used 34 times since 1947, Carter's declaration of a bargaining 
gave the administration numerous 
impasse would lead to company-by­possible levers in its search for a 
company contract settlements, with 

Work order's success uncertain; 
resumption of coal production. each accord leading to slightly higher coal production.
The strike has had a mounting .

Indiana continues power cuts 
effect on coal-dependent areas as production plummeted. 
INDIANAPOIJS [AP] -The un-"Ordering the miners back to cutbacks. G.E. LeMasters, an administrative assistant for the National Coal Association figurescertain success of President work will not assure Public Service show that production for JanuaryCarter's back-to-work order for the Indiana that it will at any future utility, said the company is experi­and February amounted to 47.7
nation's miners warrants a contin-date receive the deliveries of coal encing a 20 percent reducition in million tons, compared with 92.1
uation of mandatory power cut-necessary to run its generating · consumption since the order was 


backs, utility representatives told stations," he said. "Until such the Indiana Public Service Com-time as the controversy between mission (PCS) yesterday. the coal miners and the operators is 
At the same time, state officials settled and normal deliveries of prepared contingency plans for coal are resumed, the mandatory calling up additional national curtailment should remain in ef­guardsmen if necessary to protect feet.'' mines and miners. About 300 Currently, PSI is reading meters guardsmen remained on duty in the to determine the degree of compli­southwestern Indiana coalfields ance with the mandatory cutbacks. yesterday. Lloyd M. Griffin, PSI vice-presi-
A spokesman for the Terre Hau<e dent for customer services, ac­Chamber of Commerce said the knowledged there have been some 92-day coal strike already has business customers who have ex­meant a $10 million economic loss ceeded the limits and "we are to that western Indiana area. preparing to apply penalties this 
Larry Lidster, the chamber's week." executive wice president, said al-When the PSC drafted its order, most every major industry in the it provided a to-cent-per-kilowatt­Terre Haute area will show a loss hour penalty for excess use among for the first quarter of 1978 and industrial and commercial custom­many will have trouble showing a ers. To date, no utility has imposed profit by year's end. that penalty. 
About 325 workers in the an"' • Northern Indiana Public Service have been laid off indefinitely an Co., with a 57-day supply, has ~00-500 . ~ore persons coul.d t relied on voluntary efforts to trim tdl.ed wtt~t!i two week~, Ltdst« consumption by about 20 percent, satd. If utiltty coal s~pphes drop 1 I !said company president Edmund 30-da-": levies, he satd as many a A. Schroer. But without a contract 3,000 JObs.could be threatened. , • agreement for the miners, "the . The. ~~~tana ~mployment SecUJ emergency does and will continue tty Dtvtston listed about 4,70 · to exist." he said. indefinite layoffs statewide yesterl · fiuustt:r energy, which serves 17 day. rural power cooperatives in 22 
Despite the gloomy situation, southern Indiana counties, reiterat­however, one electric company said ed its request for re.lief from the it wanted to gamble on maintaining curtailment order. Currently, the its coal stockpile through voluntary utility has a 48-day supply of coal, conservation efforts and asked the up from 40 days when the cutbacks commission for permission to lift were imposed Feb. 19. the curtailments imposed on its With the additional supplies, southern Indiana customers. operations manager Robert R. Ross 
PSC chairman Larry Wallace said the utility felt it was unneces­adjourned the hearing until Friday sary to continue with the curtail­with~ut making an!' change in the ments which were causing econom­curtatlment order tn f?~~e for th.e ic hardships in its service area. c~stomers of thre~ uttltti~s. Ort-That request . made last Friday ­gmally, yesterday s sesston had was denied in a commission order been p~anned to deal with d~tails issued Monday. But Ross said that emanatmg from hoped-for rattfica-was still Hoosier Energy's position tion of the United Mine Workers' on the matter. 
contract. When that didn't materi­
alize, Wallace used the time to C II G d t 
review supply situations of the six 0 ege ra ua es large electric companies. 
All MitiOr... St(trt U~lnq your educcl!IOn rlfldIn testimony filed with the troimnq w11hout the yctlr<. of n-v.mlnl . c~on·c, expected of Thl~ rln
commission, Public Service Indiana mo~l Slo:"'rilf'lg pO~IIIom, I., 
opportunity to lrJke charqe of o:"' h1qhly lro:"'.ned 5lrtff

(PSI), which serves 500,000 cus­of younq people right awl'iY Only tho5c 1nfcre51f>d in a:ivancemenl. chnllf~nq1nq oppor
tomers in 52 counties, reported a 
tunifiec;, and tantats.lit. l:tenefif5 ne£.'d -"~ply Cnll49-day supply of coal. PSI is still 31/'65/ 713-1 lor an interview We are n 000. EOE oraanl/rliiOn.
under the curtailment order im­
posed Feb. 20 when its supplies 
Forum tonight

had dipped to the 40-day stage, 
which triggered cutbacks of 40 

for SG elections 

percent for schools and entertain­There will be a WSND radio forum ment facilities, 25 percent for tonight at 8 p.m. The candidatesbusinesses and 15 percent for will be questioned by three WSNDhomes. 
newspeople, and the forum will be The ordered conservation efforts broadcast from the LaFortune ball-have yielded a 20 percent reduction 

in consumption, PSI vice president room. 
F.E. George told the commission. CAP coffeehouse 
Reduced demand, coupled with 
additional_coal deliveries .and reli-features Werge 
ance on oil-fired generation have . helped boost supplies to the 49-day The~e wtll be a CAP coffe~h~use ta he said featunng Thomas Werge, assoctate 
s. g~, · . . professor of English, tomorrow 
ctsston hold fast to tts curtailment fr · th G Hall
1 · " til II om 3-5 p.m. tn e race
1 · 

p an! saytng, un coa ts actua y Penthouse. All CAP faculty and .•-fl~:ovm~, the only Prudent course !~, ,students are invited .. ,.. . . . . 
to continue the present program. . • • . .-••..· .. l-·.-. :-. . 
million tons for the same period a
imposed Feb 24. 
year ago. 
In other testimony, Indianapolis Power & Light Co. reported a 
But the figures also show a
53-day supply of coal, relying on 
gradual increase in weekly product­
power purchases and oil generation 
ion from a low point at the end of
to preserve its stockpile. Southern January.
Indiana Gas & Electric Co. report­ed 51 days supply, receiving suf­Production for the week ending ficient coal deliveries to maintain Feb. 25 was 6.7 million tons, up its stockpile. from a strike low of 4.8 milion tons 
for the last week in January. 
Break out of your shell 
and get a haircut 

for Easter! 
Get your hair done eggzactly th~ 
way you like it at 
1637 LWW



Olre 
So. Bend 232-6622 Appointment only 

WitWjammer 
JULIO'S presents 
Thin Crust lntroducto Offer 

Regular Prices PIZZA 12 in 14 in 
Cheese 2:55 3.05­Sausage 3.10 3.95 Mushroom 3.10 3.95 Pepperoni 3.10 3.95 Green Pepper 3.10 3.95 Ground Beef 3.10 3.95 Ham 3.10 3.95 Onion 3.10 3.95 Anchovy 3.1 0 3.95 Black Olive 3.1 o 3.95 (Cheese plus any 2 items) 3.50 4.45 (Cheese !)Ius any 3 items~ 3.90 4.95 Cheese Dlus any 4 items) 4.30 5.45 
232-7919 
913Y2 LWW South Bend 


Wednesday, March 8, 1978
the observer 

!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!p •0 . Box Q!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~ 
EdJtor's Note: The following letter was received by The Observer Feb. 
24. It was the consensus of the editorial board at that time to bold the letter until Observer editor Marti Hogan bad contacted Mr. Gryp about the movie story. She had already talked with Student Union Comptroller Colleen 
\McGrath and had agreed to run a 
follow-up story when McGrath 
Informed her that Movie Commis­
sioner Bonnie Bona was not In 
possession of aU the facts of the 
situation. 
Unfortunately, Hogan was un­

able to talk with Gryp about the 
story before his appearance and 
protest at the Feb. 28 meeting of 
the HPC. 
It was never The Observer's 

Intention to "censor"' Mr. Gryp's 
letter, although we are In no way 
obUgated to run every letter we 
receive that Is not "obscene or 
libelous." 
We hope The Observer's foUow up story, which will appear In tomorrow's paper, wUI clear up the movie situation. But we are printing Mr. Gryp's letter, since he still wishes to make It pubUc. 
Dear EdJtor: 
I thought I had seen everything 

in The Observer when I saw the 
photograph of the urinal with the 
Marine sticker a few months ago. 
But after I glanced at (the Feb. 22) 
front page and read "Stalemate 
Reached in Cultural Films Clash," 
I don't think anything in the paper, 
no matter how fictitious or offen­
sive, could surprise me anymore. 
As near as I can determine, the "Clash" the article describes re­fers to the Student Union's choice of movies for the semester. Last April, when the Board of Directors approved the written (not un­written, as reported) film proposal, a concerned member of the old cinema series was named assistant movie commissioner to aid in the selection of films. This individual was personally chosen by the group of fewer than ten students who are referred to as the Notre Dame Film Society. 
When they discovered that their representative on the Movie Com­mission had selected films that they did not approve of, they proposed eliminating all second semester movies and letting them pick some from scratch, a plan I could not agree was feasible. This group apparently then went to The Observer and received front page coverage. 
The Student Union is not in any "stalemate" over movies. The program offered this semester consists of films that are entertain­ing as well as cultural, and most importantly, appealing to the entire student body. We will continue to welcome input from anyone inter­ested in movies, or in any phase of the Student Union's operation. How and why the disagreement of a handful of students with the Student Union policy becomes a "clash" and a "stalemate" war­ranting coverage comparable to that given to the coal strike mystifies me. But, I think it is clear that the episode stands as another unfortunate example of The Obtler­ver's miscoverage of campus news. 
I suppose that I should be glad that the Student Union receives creative hours? I can understand
Astep back 

O'Shag being closed at 9 pm -­students can study at desks in the halls. No necessary resources are
for J-board 

in O'Shag. except maybe language labs. But why must the architec­in Grace ture building be closed with all lights out at 11? Arkie projects
Dear Editor: require specialized books. tools and On Sun., March 5, two students 

especially drawing tables. Allfrom Grace Hall were forced to these necessary resources arepack all of their possessions and housed in the arkie building.· So it move off campus. They were given is the only place on campus thatonly four days advance notice to arkies can work (they don't "study"find a place to stay for the --they "work"). They can'tremainder of the semester. 
exactly carry a 4 by 6 foot drawingTheir eviction was for discipli­
table home to their rooms andnary reasons, yet they were never finish a 6 week competition design charged with committing any hall due at 8 am. Closing the \wholeor University offenses. They were building is discriminatory; How
never warned that their behavior during the semester would result in would you like to be told to disciplinary action. The hall judi­schedule your studying and creati­
cial board was never called toget­vity before a mandatory lights out her to determine whether or not atllp.n? 
These are just two small energy
they were a disturbance to the expenditures in the conservationother residents of the hall. 

programs that might be switchedThe decision of the Grace Hall 
DOONESBURY 
7JI/fT51111AT :tM 
HM fOR, SIR! 7HIS IS )OVR IJNIT&D NATION5! 

rr 
[)(}/3.5? 
J 
by Garry Trudeau 
C()(JW I'M AFRAID IT's NOT 
WOIRU:T IN SE$10N RIGHT M&TOllE NO/A/,5/R. 81JTR&ST SECURITY A55/JR/3D, meSTIW6­COUNCIL. eu; FOR Pf3Ae& CHAMBeR? ON £3V/3RY OAY! 
\ 

staff to transfer the students' (off in 0'Shag. on in the arkie iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
building) to balance the necessaryresidence is extremely dishearten­and unnecessary lighting. Can
ing to us. For an entire year we have worked to reform and upgrade 

something be done. Father Riehle? the disciplinary process at Notre The Phriends of the Dame. The Board of Trustees, 
Half-Blind Arkies IPhobia!

when they revised the University Rules and Regulations in October, ps; Has anyone seen Buddman "strongly urged" rectors to use trying to design something for hall judicial boards. The J-board Paris Prize on the Budd-bar by the chairmen themselves have met pooltable light? several times during the year to discuss and exchange ideas (some thing which has never been done 

Jersey Club:
before). Recently rectors and hall J-board chairmen from all over the campus participated in a workshop 
no politics, 
on the proper use and educational value of hall judicial boards. Yet, the Grace Hall staff still 

butan apology
refuses to use its hall J-board. It Dear Editor: 

ignores the policy set forth by the Board of Trustees. In effect, sadly This letter is written to clarify the enough, it does not trust its own letters which have been sent out to students to adequately maintain 
students from New Jersey the good order of the hall. regarding Bill ·Bradley's upcoming appearance. On Tues., Feb. 28, I
Stephen M. Dane 

was contacted by a student
John J. Talbot Student Government 

representing the Young Demo­Judicial Coordinators 
crats. At this time Bill Bradley's appearance was brought to my attention and a meeting between
PHOBIA: this student and myself was setup for March 2.
turning off 

Also at this time my assistance was requested to try to get people
and turning on 

from New Jersey to attend Mr. Bradley's talk. The representatheDear Editor: of the Young Democrats wanted meNotre Dame and its students are to add a short paragraph explainingmaking voluntary efforts to con­club activities with my signature to serve energy in the coal strike a standard letter being sent to emergency. When the Huddle many clubs (I haven't any proofeven stopped toasting bread (until that other clubs received letters)an administration BLT addict about Mr. Bradley's appearance. 
changed that) and there is still a "freeze" on hot fudge --we are In my excitement to communi­
cutting back. But a few uses and cate with my membership by letter mandatory curtailments seem iro­(the New Jersey Club is a non­nic and I'd like to point out two of profit organization and hasn't anythese in hopes that they be funds of its own to send letters), I ·eevaluated. overlooked the political nature of 
Wednesday was a bright sunny this event. The Notre Dame New day. Why did nine out of ten Jersey Club has no political affilia­classrooms in O'Shag have both tion of any kind. The next morning I 
rows of flourescent lights turned on submitted a paper with my signa­for each class period? Using one ture and two events which the club switch. or even natural light. would is considering at this time. cut energy usage. A second problem. Wouldn't AL That afternoon when I attempted and BA students be upset if the to secure the names of the mem­library closed so early that they had 
bership from the office of student activities I was reminded of the ruleno access to the resource material regarding political affiliation of
needed for course work? Wouldn't bio and chem majors shout if all 

clubs. At this time I contacted the representative of the Young
labs were closed so that no research could be done at their 

Democrats and informed him of 
such thorough attention from the 
this ordinance. On Tuesday night-1 
paper. while other major events on was shocked and angered that campus often are conspicuously these letters were still circulated uf)dercovered or entirely unno­despite my request that-they ticed. But instead, I remain should not be. I, along with my dismayed with the paper's pro­copresident Charlie Weis, wish to gressively dismal performance. It extend our apologies to the mem­is my sincere hope, I imagine along bers of the club and request a with the rest of the student body's, written apology from the Young that these problems will someday Democrats. be corrected, but after a year of 
leonard D. Larcara

dealing with the paper, I'm not optimistic. Copresident 
TomGryp Notn Dame Nell Jene.v Oub
Stadeat Ualoa Director 

*Observer 
Editorials 
opinion!!!!!!!!!!!!!~~~~~~~~ 
Fire Rules Unrealistic 

~iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii m ike gi I roy
I am writing to express my discontent with the new rules concerning lofts and other room improvements. I read your article "Stricter Fire Safety Standards Issued" (Feb. 27). I was dismayed by Fire Inspector Bland's respons­es to several of your questions, for example: "What about lofts? How do they cause fires?" The inspect­or responded that in case of fire, the students would be overcome by smoke more quickly in a loft than in a bed. 
This may be true; however, the difference between the top bunk of a bunk bed and a loft isn't really all that great. 
The next question, however, was, "What's the point in prohibit­ing cork (& panelling, etc., on the walls)?" Inspector Bland's re­sponse was, "If you don't have any material to burn, -then you can't have a fire." 
This seems to be a reasonable statement, but why stop at lofts and panelling? What about the other things in our rooms that are every bit as flammable? 
What about the furniture that we buy and the curtains we hang? The University desks and chairs we are supplied with would burn nicely. How about the doors between adjoining rooms? They are thin, lightweight and hollow. Why not ban these also? Why not? Because it would be ridiculously impracti­cal that's why. Because such a move would be reactionary and extremist. 
Let's be realistic; of course materials such as panelling and extension cords can be fire hazards. But is the solution the extreme measure of banning them? 
The inspector mentioned the institution of several safety checks a semester. This is a fine idea, but why couldn't the purpose of these checks be to insure that conditions 
are safe? The cure for a broken 
arm is not amputation; it is instead 
to made sure that the arm is set 
correctly and to take special care of 
it so that it will return to normal! 
Many of the dorms on this campus are approaching the half­century mark in age. They were designed for students who owned few electrical appliances. They were also designed for fewer students. In the life of my dorm three singles at one point miracu­lously became a quad. Three rooms of this same size became a five-man room because they had an adjoining bathroom (Where does the fifth man sleep? In the shower!). 
When intelligent resourceful people are forced to live in over­crowded conditions, what are they expected to do? I would be surprised if I didn't find lofts to save space, panelling to cover old plaster walls, and extension cords to somehow get by with the inadequate wiring. 
These conditions were created by the University; the students merely reacted to them. In the light of these circumstances I don't see why the University cannot allow safe improvements to be made. There has never been a better example of reactionary thinking than we see in the proposed ban on lofts and improvements. I question the justification, the practicality and the wisdom of this move. 
Going away to college shouldn't be the same as being sent to your bedroom for four years with meal privileges. 



Mel Brooks' High Anxiet~ 
It Doesn't Make Us Laugh 
Mel Brooks' High Anxiety fails as a comedy for two reasons: it doesn't achieve the parody it attempts, and it doesn't make us laugh. An effort to parody Alfred Hitchcock films and the psychiatric/psy­chological profession, High Anxiety bores the viewer with a banal plot and unoriginal, stereotyped humor. 
The plot runs thus--top psychiatrist and Harvard professor Richard Thorndike (Mel Brooks) is hired to be the new director at the Home for the Very, Very Nervous. His colleagues there include Brofee, his side­kick, Dr. Lilolman; his former . teacher, Dr. Montague (Harvey Korman) and Nurse Diesel (Cioris Leachman), his enemies in secret. Thorndike's efforts to help Victoria Brisbane (Madeline Kahn) locate her father, a patient at the home, don't go well with Montague and Diesel, and they plot to have Thorndike falsely convicted for mur­der. Thorndike and Miss Brisbane team with Brofee to prove Thorndike's inno­cence and rescue Arthur Brisbane from Montague and Diesel. Finally, Thorndike must overcome his fear of heights (''high anxiety") to preserve a happy ending. 
Brooks' comic style depends heavily on the use of types and type exaggeration. High Anxiety abounds in typed characters and situations. Dr. Thorndike is the typical comic good-guy--honest, basically friendly, and naive until his head's virtually in the guillotine. Dr. Montague is the perfect evil coward-sniveling, sneaky, dominated by an evil woman who uses him to her own diabolical ends. Nurse Diesel is the archetypal witch--hooked nose, hairy face, gnarled teeth, and an outstandingly grote­sque oair of breasts. Victoria Brisbane is the damsel-in-distress--melodramaftc, light­headed. beautiful. Brooks exaggerates the characteristics we associate with these types in an attempt at parody, and he succeeds to a degree, but not to the degree that they elicit much laughter. The parody is stale and rather obvious. Brooks doesn't use l!ny imagination--not only are the characters stereotyped, but also the humor involving them. So we get Nurse Diesel smoking a cigar, and the corny bedroom lines at the movie's conclusion. 
High Anxiety also contains a great many ryped situations: when Thorndike and Miss Brisbane masquerade as an old Jewish couple, when Montague, Diesel, and Thorndike pose for a photograph, and when Thorndike delivers a shlocky musical number (the hero takes the mike to give us all one song) in a San Francisco bar. His whole relationship with Miss Brisbane is 
Colleen was trying to convince me to accompany her to rat lab. I didn't want to go. If I want to watch girls mess around with bewhiskered animals I can switch on 'Charlie's Angels.' 
Col persisted. "It's a lot of fun," she told me. "I go once a day for five weeks and earn a psych credit or two. Just come and watch." 
"You gotta be kidding. I used to hide in the bathroom when the 'Mickey Mouse Club Show' came on." 
"C'mon. Just make sure you wear an 
old shirt." 
"Why?" 
She explained. 
"That's disgusting. I ain't ever letting no rat get close enough to do that." "Hurry, I'm late." I gave in. I was feeling noble and besides 
I owed her two bucks for my share of an extra-large pizza from Julio's. Maybe she'd cancel the debtjf I went along.•. 
Our destination was the basement of Madeleva. My friend disappeared into a small, dimly-lit room and emerged carry­ing a square beige bucket with a wire lid. I followe&···her into the lab at a careful distance, scenes from 'Willard' and 'Ben' scampering in my head. 
The lab room was empty, except for the two -er -three of us. Colleen place the makeshift cage on a desk, seated herself and removed the lid. I involuntarily stepped back as she scooped up her furry friend. 
"Col! That thing is 'as big as a housecat!" He was an albino rat, about eight inches long, with two foot-long fangs. His 
the archetypal "romantic comedy" one, with both of them trying to deal rationally with the issue at hand (her father) while in each a wild passion smolders. Resolution of present dilemmas enables them to marry and snuggle in their honeymoon nest. Which is exactly where the movie ends, the camera tracking backwards through the window (yes, breaking it--"Keep pullin' back--maybe they'll never notice") and out of their wedding_ suite in the Honeymoon Hotel. 
High Anxiety is openly dedicated to ''Alfred Hitchcock, The Master of Sus­pense," and direct references to the Hitchcock style and films run through the entire movie. -However, I have a problem dealing directly with this aspect, as I've seen only a few Hitchcock films and, recall little from them. Brooks' movie takes scenes right out of Psycho, Vertigo, The Birds, and North by Northwest, some of them shot-for-shot replicas. Actually, High Anxiety is more an attempt to satirize the psychiatric/psycho­logical profession than it is a parody of Hitchcock. However, Brooks' vision is nothing new--he sees the profession as a conglomerate of superficial money-grub­bers who would rather keep a patient on their account than cure him. If that means inducing neurosis by artificial means (like rubber bands and wax werewolf teeth), then that's the way it goes. In Brooks' vision, all psychiatrists and psychologists More demonstrative of Brooks' wit is his want is the patient's money; even the use of "reflexive humor." By "reflexive good-heart1 d Thorndike states as one of humor," I mean humor that refers, visually his most important professional rules, or verbally, back to the medium itself, the "Never take a personal check." Scenes film. Examples are the camera tracking that deal specifically with the profession back through a window (this occurs twice), include a group meeting in which psychia­and Thorndike remarking in the opening trists and psychologists discuss the term scene, "What a dramatic airport!" It "penis envy" while two gradeschool girls serves to constantly remind us that this is look on. Cliche and often predictable, the nothing but a story, a comic contrivance, satire rarely gets more than a chuckle. lending the film an air of absurdity that As does most of the humor. The only allows Brooks to do almost anything he stuff that gets big laughs is Brooks' wishes. Unfortunately, Brooks pursues bathroom humor--jokes dealing with sex, this line of humor very little, and does sadomasochism, vomiting, or vulgarity. almost nothing with the freedom it affords Considering that Brooks neglects to do him. anything different with the material, it High Anxiety just isn't funny. It doesn't seems a rather cheap way to get laughs. make us laugh. There are humorous Many scenes depend on a single vulgar moments--the "boxing" scene, Brofee's "I word or idea to make them the least bit got it" routine, and the deliciously and so funny. I'm not against using vulgarity or thoroughly evil Harvey Korman as Dr. "bathroom humor"--let's face it, it can be Montague (a Ia "HeddyLamarr"10f Blazing 
awfully funny-but when the only way a Saddles)'.'. But most of . the humor is director can get us to laugh is by reverting empty--it doesn't bring meaning to the to childish gags about vomit and bird film. Which is not inherently bad, but I excrement, it causes me to doubt whether think a parody should somehow meaning­he has any grip on comedy at all. fully reflect on the matter from which it has 
Of Mice And Women 
eyes glowed like twin embers from the I forced a smile as he diligently began to 
lowest depths of hell. As I spoke, his gnaw a hole in my shirt. "Nice rat," I whiskers twitched menacingly and his crooned. "Good boy ...so help me God I'm mouth curled. going to cut off your tail with a carving "Isn't he cute?" asked Colleen, tickling • knife if you don't stop that..good rat..." 
him under the chin. I braved another look. He must've heard me, for his frenzied Now his ears were flattened back and he chewing abruptly halted. His mean little was foaming at the mouth. His tail lashed eyes glinted and he accepted the chal­
the air. lenge. In a flash he had sunk his tusks into "A real doll," I agreed sarcastically. my thumb. Colleen sighed. The rat crawled up her I jumped. He squealed in triumph. I shoulder, sniffed at her neck, then eyed dropped him and tried to crush him with her jugular with interest. Was there a my shoe. He retreated into a corner, eyes twinkle in his eye?· blazing, whiskers dancing with rage. "Uh, better watch it,'' I offered ner­Colleen snatched him up and glared at 
vously. me. Me! "How could you!" she shot, "Why? He's perfectly tame." vainly trying to quiet the vile vermin in her "I don't trust his sneaky expression ... he arms. He was snivelling into her T-shirt. 
reminds me of Nixon." "He started it!" I cried, just like when I "Hey, you wanna hold him?" was six and my mother yelled at me for "I'd rather jam him down the john." belting my little brother after he ate my "I'm serious. Here, take 'im." She entire jar of school paste. 
pried him from her arm and thrust him in "But you're bigger!" Funny, that's my face. exactly what Mom had said. "Get it away from me! I'll pay you back, "So send me to bed without dinner!" I I swear!" retorted. 
·"What are you...look, nothing will Colleen . turned her back on me and happen if you show him you're not afraid of started cooing to the malicious mammal him." responsible for the whole fiasco. I felt 
"Great. When he bites my hand off I'll betrayed as I studied the two bloody laugh in his face." imprints on my thumb. It wasn't fair. I Colleen dumped the bristling beast into was bleeding to death, having been ripped 
my hands. He hissed at her, then twisted 11part by a rabied rodent, and my friend around and inspected me. Once again his was more concerned with the rat. Well, ears flattened back. I was definitely maybe he would catch my cold. That was a 
receiving bad vibes. comforting thought. "I don't think he likes me," I told my Col returned the rat to his lair, (where he friend. sat smugly licking his chops, no doubt), "He's not used to you. Give him a fastened the lid, and slumped depairingly chance.'~ . · · in a chair. "What am I going to do now?" 

been derived. Perhaps I've missed something because of my unfamiliarity with Hitchcock's films, his types, and his shot compositions. Perhaps the fact that I saw the film twice in virtually empty theatres lends to my dissatisfaction with Brooks' humor--sometimes it's easier to laugh with a crowd. It just seems that many of Brooks' jokes fall flat because they are unoriginal and so removed from the context, as if he had to resort to nightclub humor when he couldn't get any more out of the working material. The effect--the same old gags and one-liners of a conventional stand-up act thrown against the backdrop of a mental hospital. The result--boredom, occasional embarrass­ment, and few laughs. mgh Anxiety--like Brooks' Blazing Saddles, Young Fnmken­steln, and SUent Movie--is a superficially constructed, virtually empty comedy that--unlike those movies--doesn't make you laugh. If you're a Brooks fan, and you insist on seeing all of his films, wait on High Anxiety till it comes to campus. Better to waste one dollar than three and a half. 

she mourned. "He's probably so emotion­allJ strung-out that I'll never be able to train him. And I won't earn my credits!" 
''What do you have to teach him, anyway? To attack burglars?" I asked unsympathetically. "He has great poten­tial with his killer instinct." 
"I'm supposed to start him on dipper­training tomorrow, then go on to barpres­sing...what's the use! He hates me now. He'll refuse to learn anything! There goes my G.P.A.!" 
"I have an idea." 
"What?" 
"Conduct a different· experiment! There's a sophomore in Keenan with a twelve-foot boa constrictor with a hearty appetite. Let's observe how long it takes for one boa to digest one live, healthy ..." 
Colleen's glare silenced me. The rat started to whimper. "Oh, stop whining," Col told him crossly. 
"It was just a suggestion," I said defensively. ·:1 know--let's switch your rat with someone else's!" 
''That is the most dishonorable, disrepu­table, disgraceful..." "Got a better idea?" 
She didn't. 
So we made the switch. 
"I don't believe what we just did," mumbled Col on our way back to the dorm. "We're bigger rats than the ones in the cages.'' 
"Don't let it bother you," I assured her. "It was the only American thing to do." "Rats." 
.......... 
-



Visible sidewalks and melting snow--perhaps spring may someday be here! [photo by Kevin Walsh] 
Carter welcomes Tito 
WASIDNGTON [AP]-President Carter welcomed Yugoslav President Tito to the White House yesterday, praising him as a ''true friend" of the United States and as 
a  symbol  of  Eastern  Europe's  
yearning  for  freedom,  indepen­ 
dence and liberty.  

The 85-year-old leader appeared in robust health as he arrived at the White House south grounds for a 20-minute ceremony that included full military honors. 
In his brief remarks, Ca& ignored the many difference'> U.S.-Yugoslav relations and c:tos to dwell on Tito's personal accom plishments as the world'; longest-se&Ving head of govern· ment. 
As much as any other person, Carter said, Tito symbolizes "the eagerness for freedom, indepen­dence and liberty that exists in Eastern Europe and indeed throughout the world." Carter thus reaffirmed American 

pport for Yugoslavia's role as a n n-aligned communist state which Tito has pursued since his break with the Soviet Union 30 years ago. The statement also se&Ved as an expression of American hope that other East European countries will follow the same course. 
Carter also disclosed that he has sought Tito's adyice and counsel in an extensive exchange of private correspondence with the Yugoslav leader. 
Carter made no reference to the many occasions in which. Tito has staked out an anti-U.S. position in international forums. Instead, he hailed Tito's role as a founder of the nonaligned bloc of nations anJ of the upcoming United Natio~1s disarma•nent conference. 
A large gathering of Yugoslavs who reside locally was on hand fur the White House ceremony as Tito began a three-day official visit, his first since 1971. 
Throughout most of the 
ceremony, he bore a somber expression but smiled broadly and engaged in a warm handshake with Carter at the conclusion of their public remarks. They then began the first of their two scheduled meetings. 
Carter arranged a black-tie din­ner last night in honor of his guest. There have been few such dinners for foreign dignitaries in recent months. 
In his remarks at the morning ceremony, Titi said he welcomed the warming trend in U.S.­Yugoslav relations since the Carter administration took office. 
There have been discussions about the possibility of a modest expansion of U.S. military sales to Yugoslavia. In addition, Vice President Walter Mondale and Defense Secretary Harold Brown have visited Belgrade. Brown's visit was the first ever by a Pentagon chief to a communist country. 


"Epic;' lei are trademarks of CBS Inc. (!;) 197e CBS Inc. 
Appearing at the Notre Dame Athletic and Conv~on Center 
__ . . . . • _ . . 
.... ' •.· ..-............~h.~!1978. •.• ••.. ·.•~··....-..•~ ·. .-:-~~~·:··~ ,.: ·:~~~<. ~<.· .... /,~..-:-~.. . .,: :.:..:--:-.~--~.---.....------------­
1 I ',',J •./. ,., ... .,,.~,.•,•,J,-'jl J,•' -• ,-~·· ' 
Biology seminar continues with sunfish lecture 
The seminar series sponsored by University of Montana, will discuss 
the Notre Dame Biology Depart­"Prey Selection by the Bluegill 
ment will continue tomorrow after­Sunfish." The public is invited. 
noon at 4:30 p.m. in Room 101 of Coffee will be se&Ved outside Room 
the Galvin Life Science Center. 101 at 4:15 p.m. Dr. Gary Vinyard, from the 
COMMODITY MERCHANDISING... AS CLOSE TO THE PITS AS YOU CAN GET 

The trading floor of the Grain Exchange is called the "pit" where fortunes are made and lost everyday. The commodity merchandiser works on the fringe of the pits, buying and selling in the cash and future markets. 
As a Commodity Merchandiser, you deal with millions of dollars each month. You know the commodity market, understand all modes of transportation, know how to hedge. You are decisive, aggressive, and autonomous. You are responsible for making a pprofit. So you are well apid and quickly promoted. 
General Mills is a $3 billion dolar corporation. We need 
Commodity Merchandisers. We are not looking for just anybody. 
But we might be looking for you. LeaJership qualities and 
entrepreneurial inclinations a must. 
We'll train you on the job, and if you have the ability to learn quickly, a desire to thrive in an environment that always challenging, the willingness to succeed or fail on the basis of your own decisions-you could have a bright career ahead of you. A career that offers the opportunity of advartcement into higher levels of management in many areas of the corporation. 

He was in his twenties. So was she. Both were Catholic, unmarried, prayerful, creative. Both cared about people and cared for them. 
How come he never thought of the priesthood? How come she never thought of being a nun? 
"No one ever asked me:' they said. 
Is this your story? No one ever asked you? Well, we're asking. 

-Mail Coupon Today!-------------­
2-3 

Please send information on: 
0 Diocesan Priests 0 Religious Priests 0 Brothers 0 Nuns 0 Lay Ministries 
Name __________________________________________ 
Address---------------------------------------­
City -------------State -----------ZIP ---------­
VOCATIONS COMMITTEE/SUPREME COUNCIL. 
KRIGHT§ OF £0LURIBUS J_ ~.e~. ~.aven, CT 06507 

.·,-.·. 

-
Economist Novak to speak on new world order 
~Tim Sullivan 

Sponsored by the World Hunger Coalition (WHC), James Novak, economist, win speak on "The Struggle for a New World Order" tonight at 8 p.m. in the Area Studies Reading Room on the twelfth floor of the Memorial 
Library. 
Novak's talk is a preliminary event to Sunday's WHC workshop concentrating on "Corporate In­vestments, South African Apar­theid, and Notre Dame". The workshop will be held from 1-5 
p.m. in the Memorial Library Auditorium. 
"Corporate Multinationalism" will be the theme for this semes­ter's workshop. Several economists have suggested that certain multi­national corporations have operat­ed in less developed coutries to the detriment of these countries. 
B0b Jacobs, director of the WHC, commented that "we want to show all sides of the issue. It's a different problem for everyone to look at.'' 
Novak is a member of the Board of Directors of Asia-Potomac Inc. and a consultant to IBM in Latin America. He is a columnist for the Asia Mail, where he writes on economic policy in the Third Wor­ld. 
Before 1976, Novak was vice-pres­ident and regional manager in Asia for A.H. Robins, as well as general manager of the Philippines subsid­iary for one year. He served as pharmaceutical director for Asia for the Pfizer Corporation for two years in Hong Kong. He has also been a member of the board of several companies in Korea, Bangladesh, and the Philippines. 
Leaving the corporate world in order to begin writing in 1976, Novak has since published over 100 articles in The Washington Post, the Christian Science Monitor, America, Atlantic Monthly, the Times of India, Mainstream, and Worldview. 
Novak's major field of inquiry ill; international economics. He at­tended the Group of '77 Ministerial Meeting in Manila in 1976, the UNTCAD Conference in Nairobi in 1976, and has interviewed partici­pants in the North-South Dialouge in Paris. 
A former captain in the U.S. Army, the 38 year old, Novak is a graduate of Boston College who earned a masters degree in econ­omics at Notre Dame. 
Novak has published numerous articles dealing with the Trilater­alist Commission, which he des-
Senate agrees to proposal 
[conti•ued from page 3] 
pated under the administration's energy plan. 
The gas-pricing stalemate has stalled action on the rest of Carter's energy plan, including his pro­posal for a tax on domestic crude oil that would add seven cents a gallon to the price of gasoline and other petroleum products. 
Yesterday, Long, the top Senate negotiator on the tax sections of the energy bill, said in a statement, that he has told the president the controversial tax has no chance of being enacted. 
''I feel they (Carter administration officials) are beating a dead horse when they are talking about that crude oil equalization tax," Long said. 
Long cited massive Senate opposi­tion to the plan. The House passed the tax, but the Senate rejected it in favor of a series of tax credits for energy production and conserva­tion. 
The administration had.railed the tax the centerpiece of its energy program. 
It is designed to raise the price of domestically-produced oil to a level charged by other producing nations cribed in an article in the Dec. 24, 1977 issue of Mainstream as "I' broad-based political pressure group that can unite the industria 1emocratic countries of Europ 
iorth America, and Japan intc lliock of rich nations able 1egotiate with both Commm 
nd Third World nations." 
"The Trilateralist nations," he ~ontinued, "can harmonize their 'oreign and domestic, political and ,conomic policies through trilateral ,ommittees, creating the larges,, 
'tchest and most powerful federal nion in the world." 
President Jimmy Carter stated in is May 6, 1977 Notre Dame leech that the world needs a new tternational system of this type. arter is now a member of the dlateralist Commission. 
' visiting professorI Eliza­


. beth Sewell, presented a lecture yesterday on "The Primal Images." This was the first in a ­series of three lectures. .Tomorrow's topic is "Memory of Past and Future." The lecture is at 
8:30 in Hayes-Healy Audi­torium. [photo by Kevin Walsh] 

RIVER CITY RECORDS Is South Bend's Newest, Largest and Mos~ Complete Record Store! 
Check our huge selection of cut-outs and impor'~~ 
Shula's 
I 

the best in new and catalog SUndar 1oon-1:1 lln.-sat: 1o:oo-10:1
•.h.... •.• ··~ '"" ,._ rock and roll .... 
-----THE STATE LINE!-------­
Mountain Music 

Waterhed Shed  *  Al's Dlxieway Foods  
RIVER CITY  RECORDS  
50970 lj,S. 31  North  
277-4242  
EAT  Kentucky Fried Chicken  
""  
..  t: = z  
Taco Bell  


~ 
0 North Village
Ill: 
Mall 
Ill: 
'-l McD.;nald's
.., 
Ill: Amy's 
;J 
Forum Cinema
= 
~ 

Golden Bear 
< 

Ramada Inn
r 

Wendy's
Burger King 
St. Mary's 

Notre Dame 
I --------­
$1.00 OFF!
I 

Any L.P. Or TapeI With This Coupon! 
(Ill.lru larch 1111

I (One coupon per person. Coupons not valid for cut-outs or on sale items.) 
River City Records
I 

50970 U.S. 31 NorthI South Bend 
I 277-4242 



'!nd. thus. re.clu~ JJ.. S, .r!!lirutce _on imported oil. 


Retains UN mission 

South Africa owes UN 7.5 million 


UNITED NATIONS [AP] -South Africa has paid no United Nations dues since 1974, when it was ejected from the General Assemb­ly's fall session. But the white­ruled nation continues to enjoy its member privileges other than vot­ing in the assembly, where it has never tried to return. 
South Africa's bill has reached $7.5 million since it wasthrownout amid a black African campaign against its apartheid racial policy. The figure represents assessments both for the general U.N. budget and for the Mideast peacekeeping force. 
South African diplomats say that every year since then they have sounded out other countries before the September opening of the assembly to check their prospects. So far, the South Africans say, they have had no encouragement to go back. 
In the past, other U.N. countries have been late paying bills or have refused to pay. Cambodia fell into deliquency for one month in 1977 and the Soviet Union in 1964-65 successfully challenged its assess­ment for peacekeeping troops in 
Governors vow to keep peace 
"/HAVE CALLEJ YOU BY YOUR NAM£" 
Brothers of Holy Cross 

the Congo and Middle East. 
Under a section of the U.N. charter -irrrelevant to the Russian and Cambodian cases and never applied -a nation that falls two years behind on its assessments can lose its General Assembly' voting power. 
But of course, South Africa has no use for an assembly vote as long as it is not there. 

Besides that, it escapes public exposure to lengthv denunciations from its critics, a group by now including nearly all U.N. members, . but especially the black Africans, their non-aligned comrades and the communitsts. 
South Africa still has a U.N. mission in the New York and enjoys the same services from the U.N. Secretarist as the other 143 mem­ber countries with missions. 

Benefits continue The South Africans get passes and documents from the secretariat and take friends to lunch in the delegates' dining room. In recent years, the mission has been allow­ed to use a headquarters briefing room for news conferences given ' by South Africa's famous heart-t 
transplant surgeon. Dr. Christian 
Barnard, and by Foreign Minister 
R.F. Botha. 

Botha appeared after conferring with U.N. Secretary General Kurt . W aldheim during a visit to the United States last June. South Africa's last U.N. ambassador and · simultaneously ambassador to Washington, Botha had gone home two months earlier to join the cabinet. 
The slimmed-down U.N. mission staff now consists of three diplo­mats and four secretaries. The diplomats are the charge d'affair­es, Cousellor J. Adriaan Eksteen; another counsellor, Hermann Albert Hanekom, and a first secre­tary, David Olwage Gericke. 
Hanekom said in an interview 

that they almost never attend U.N. !~~============================•
meetings-"most of these meetings anyway are a bore." But they listen in their mission, where they get a live feed from 
U.N. headquarters of the speeches at any meeting they choose to tune in. 
From notes on these transmis­sions, from documents and conver­sations with other diplomats, they 
~#' 
o'V\: ~ 
~ 0~ 
~~<b-~ 
~c ~ ~~ '/'<:J (J~ ~ tickets: $4 students $2. 

SPANISH DANCES IN CONCERT 
St. Mary's College MAR. 13, 1978. 8PM 
Olaughlin Auditorium 
• 
See MR.ART ARENS, Corporate Employment Representative 
Mr. Steve Gutschenritter~ 
ChE Notre Dame '77 March 13th 8:30a.m.-4:45p.m. Placement Bureau ADMINISTRATION BLDG . 
STEPAN CHEMICAL CO. 
Edens & Winnetka ­Northfield, Ill. 60093 446-7500 
An Affirmative Action Employer m/f 

draft reports that are sent to Pretoria by diplomatic pouch each week and by radio on urgent occasions. 
"We are prepared to speak to anybody and we are prepared to listen to anybody who speaks to us," Hanekom said. "Our job is to represent South Africa at the United Nations and we do it to the best of our ability under the circumstances ... We give parties, we go to parties .. We give information, we get information, just like other delegates." 
Ouster Foreseen, dues held 
Although South Africa's ejection from the General Assembly came late in 1974, its diplomats say they saw clouds on the horizon early in the year and adopted a policy of holding up dues payment until year's end. Thus, early 1974 was the last time South Africa contri­buted anything for support of the United Nations. 
Meanwhile, its general assess­ment has grown with the budget from $1.1 million in 1974 to $1.3 million in 1977. Total U.N. budget assessments for 1977 were $422.5 million. of which the United States was billed for $99.4 million. 
By 1977, South Africa was being asked for $265,234 annually to help pay for peacekeeping forces formed after the 1973 Arab-Israeli war to separate Israeli troops for Egyptian and Syrian forces. South Africa owed a total of $1.6 million in peacekeeping assessments by 1977. 


---------:---------------~ 
Wednesday, March 8, 1978 the observer 11 
Events on Campus 
Hum;hrey, piano, in a m~ster:s · and the "C# minor Scherzo, op. free, but next f~ll they will cost $10. but the balance must be paid 
degree recital 8:15p.m. tomght ~n 39"; and Ravel's "Le tombeau de before Apr. 14.
to schedule an appointment for this 
Couperin. '' The formal will be held on Apr. 22 at the Conrad-Hilton Hotel in 
Digger at Lyons the Library Auditorium. There wdl week, call3557 or stop by Room 2C 
be no admission charge. of LaFortune today. 
Digger Phelps, Notre Dame bas­Chicago. For more information call 
Humphrey, a native of St: Louis

ketball coach, will speak tonight in Senior Portraits Mary at 6968 or Cathy at 222-7678.
received a Bachelor of Mustc from 

the basement chapel of Lyons Hall Oberlin Conservatory in 1976. To­Senior Formal at 8 p.m. The talk is sponsored by Notre Dame -juniors who would
night's recital is given in partial Fasters' mass
the Academic Commission. like to have their\Senior portrait in 
fulfillment of Notre Dame's master Bids for the Senior Formal willthe 1979 yearbook should haveof music degree in performance go on sale today \from 1-4:30 p.m. Fr. David Burrell, chairman oftheir picture taken this week.

and literature. 

Piano Recital Today and tomorrow are the last in the LaFortune Ballroom at Notre Notre Dame's Department of The­
The program includes Beethov­Dame and in LeMans Hall at Saint ology, will celebrate this week:sdays photographed

en's "Sonata in Eb, op. 31 #3"; to be this Mary's. Bids cost $40 a couple. A Faster's Mass today at 5:15p.m. tn
The Notre Dame Music Depart­semester.
Chopin's "Etude in E, op. 10 #3" 1 
ment will present John Andrew .. --This semester the sittings are $10 deposit will be accepted today, · the Walsh Hall Chapel. 
NOTICES WANTED: Need ride to Boston area M. Ride needed to Columbus this weekend. Dear Janebo: 
17. Will share driving and expenses. Call 8820 Belated Happy Birthday! Remember,classified ads you are only 20 once, so keep your eye on
Call Tony at 1436. Paul t~EED QUALITY TYPING? Executary those shorts! Inc., Professional typing Service, Correc­Ride needed to Wash. DC for spring TERRY TUOHY LOVES ABUSE ••. Eiect Lovebo, The gangbo
ting Selectrics. 85 cents per page break -prefer Thursday, M. 16. Call her SBP minimum. "Call 232-0898 When you John, 8705. Mal, want the best." Ugly man is coming ...Save your pennies. Quando e' il giro alia luna per una Need ride to Los Angeles over break. bistecca "Illinois" e "Homa Shrimp"?
Dissertations, manuscripts, etc., typed. Call Debbie 8485. Lenten confessions heard Monday thru Appena per favore, ho fameZ!
WHY PAY MORE?? Flanner Records has

IBM Selectric II. linda's Let-ters, Saturday at Sacred Heart, beginning at 7
all $7.981ist lp's for only $5.29. All $6.98 Topwop
287-4971. Ride needed to Orlando or_ Daytona area pm. Anyone wishing to make an
list lp's for only $4.59 (plus tax). Flanner for break. Call Mike at 1403. appointment for times for confessions Dave Nix,

Records, 322 Flanner PH 274h

Get to class or work on time. Call Bob's may phone Campus Ministry at 6536 or (This is your nickname you are rarely Wake up Service 287-4971. Need riders to Lauderdale, Spring Break. 3820. called) Have a great Day.
Vivitar Zoom Lens -85-205 mm, Minolta 

Call Mary Sharon 7812.
mount, $130. R USS 288-2069. JK 
Great idea, linda!! ...... T ------Haircuts, trims, styles, cheap! SMC 4530 Need ride to Wash. DC for break. Betsy. Debbie Kirkland, Typing done in home. Fast, accurate, Marice, 1312. Thanks
WANTED

reasonable. Close to campus. Call Now is the time for all uglies to count GL 272-7866 anytime. Ride needed to Long Island or NYC area. their pennies. Mike 8889. Overeaters Anonymous is now on cam­
NEED RIDE TO NORTHWEST OHIO

The Bookie Joint at the 100 Center wants H & R Bevo with the third of 17 reasons pus! Call 289-6021 for time and place.
AREA [TOLEDO] ON MARCH 11, SA­

to help you stretch your book budget. SPORTS ILLUSTRATED COURT CLUB: why you should own a Bevo stick. If the
TURDAY. PLEASE CALL DAVE 8469.

Bring your papperbacks for exchange. Now accepting applications for full and Bevo stick ever fails to perform up to Catherine and Jennifer and What's Your part time help. Pro social director-salary specifications, bring it in to 238 Dillon for Name(?) my favonte Mrdi Gras co­
Need ride to Northern NJ for spring

TYPING DONE break. Call Kathy 1264. nursery, attendant, desk sales, staff, a (free ) adjustment. Gerry wants no workers • Thanks for Jiving it to me on REASONABLE RATES teaching, professionals-Hourly wages. dissatisfied customers.$ Valentines Day. CALLB086 205 W. Edison, 259-8585.
Two rambling guys need ride to Fort Thorn
POOH BIRD·
Lauderdale for break. Brian 1387, or

Accurate, fast typing. Mrs. Donoho, Hugh 1380. Two need ride to Tampa ClearWater area Wake up! It is 5:00 and youy are 21! Needed Desperately: Doritos, all flavors, 232.0746. Hours: 8 am to 6 pm. for spring break. 4-5706. Roomie in truckload quantities. Will pay big Hey, we're having some fun now. bucks or trade for drugs. Call Frank Typing. Reasonable rates. Call 8051. Three sunloving students wishing to P. Doily Nix -Happy 21st! Be ready to Laurino at Madame Ching's PS: If I am a 
reduce you~ Florida vacation expense. celebrate! Dorito, you can eat me!
Need ride to Texas, Dallas, Houston etc.

EVERY STUDENT CAN VOTE IN THE Need ride and or accomadations in Jefroy
Share expenses, driving. 2747.

MAY INDIANA PRIMARY -if interested, Lauderdale, Daytona. Call Paul 8820. Byrne-Don't you know that it is a register before spring braek by calling Thanks Leta and Kris.... You are the best. violation to double dribble when you
Need ride to New York, March 17. WillMoat 4-1-4001. share driving and expenses. Please call WANTED: Two girls need ride to Kerry don't have the ball? Don't worry Tom at 3828. 
Denver, Colorado Springs area for braek. though... \ won't blow the whistle. Love, 
Riders needed to Kansas City (and Will share in driving and expenses. Sue, 4th floor Stanford: Lingusreturn) during spring break. Share 3888. Thanks for the party....~ou are
Need ride to Toledo on March 17. Will

driving and expenses. Call Paula, pay. Kim, 7856. sweethearts. Elect Tuohy , Wixted, Mellahy for St. 283-7372 (or leave message). Love, Kerry Mary's Student Government, '78-'79. Ride wanted to Ft. Lauderdale for spring
Riders needed to NY State area for spring 3rd floor Pangborn announces secession Happy 19th Birthday, one day late is
break'for one person. Tom, 232-4499.

braek. Call Sharon 4-1-4276. PERSONALS from the hall. Anyone interested in class. Hope it was great. Love,annexation caiiiDI, Stavola Dada-8435.
Need ride to and from Boston-Providence Your Big Sis 
Bus service every Friday to Chicago. SMC take notice. PS: Florida here we come.
for break. Will pay$$. Call Maryanne,

Buses leave the circle at 6:05 pm. For "A domer, Bob kutter did say,
4-4762.

tickets or info call Shep, 8330. That being our Dad was OK, Now see folks .......The entire civil war Gerber Nix-To his daughter at SMC, might have been avoided if only the Happy 21tST B·Day. Maybe you'll
Need ride to Pittsqurgh for break. Will

Need ride to Northwest Ohio area He's the number one pick, Rebels had first tried Observer personals. even stay awake for us now?
share driving and expenses. Call R1ch,

(Toledo) on Saturday, March 11. Please For this wish of HAPPY BIRTHDAY!" Kudos to Pres. ldi, obviously a peace TC
8278 after 11 :30 pm.

(;(Ill Dave at 8469. Love, loving man! 
Devoted Daughter and other "SMC 
Hey stick body man.... • Will do typing ....neat, accurate. Call Lovelies." PS: Sorry this is late. Rejoice -It is MUFFIN's Birthday. Gain some weight! You can't stay 
NEEDED: Ride to Florida (pref. Ft. 
Lauderdale area). Will pay expenses.

287-5162. Happy 21st. Love, malnutrtioned your whole life. zoh yeah,
Call 5465 or 4796. 

Need ride to Cleveland this weekend. MARIA 
Happy 21st B·DayTyping -Experience in the~es and Call Kathy 1264.
Need a ride to and or from Cleveland or

dissertations. Selective typewnter, rea­turnpike exit weekend of March 10-12. Congo-Freshwomen of Lyons, 
sonable. 232-5715. Ed, 6984. Will share expenses. Your vote counts-Vote Darragh Carden, Have a great and wild 21st. The men of Alumni Alleys await you -­and POPE on March 13th. 
Pickles This Friday in the Bulla Shed. Be there, TO ALL INTERESTED STUDENTS: The Need ride to Detroit for spring break. Happy to Birthday Aloha! 
Mental Health Association of ST. Joes Belated to the DT
Leaving March 17. Also, need ride back 

Observer freak, Kathy Hartnett. Why Happy 21st old man.
needs your support. One to one to ND on Mar. 27. Call Katie, 6751. Pill You Are a caution. Happy Birthdayvolunteers are needed to aid in the doesn't everyone give her a call at Jodie from Grandma Hellman. socialization of emotionally restored men 4-1-4712 and wish her a happy birthday?
Need ried to Albuquerque N M for break.and women. Call Mary Ann Mulcahy, Will share expenses and driving. Call Going home over break? Transportation Kame (the latest of many monikers).
288-4504 or Joe Hauflaire at the MHA 4-1-4898. Debbie. Ask SueT. available to Virqinia, Texas, New Jersey Happy Birthday from your favorite room­234-1049. Why she sits on radiators..... ? and Pennsylvama. Gall Auto Driveaway, ate. 674-9786.
Ride needed to North Jersey-NYC area 

Vote Darragh Carden and Pope. It is Part
LOST AND FOUND for spring break. Please call Bruce, 3587. H&R Bevo with reason number 4.
of the Plan. Gornbread.... Females, yes, NO Females! Find you Two rlders needed to Long Island or Happy 21st! I bet you are hung over so irresistable if you own one. Hurry, call vicinity for break. Call Jean, 8085 or Murray Powers, badly! ·1728...we must clear our inventory before 
1see you in the dining hall, I see you in
LOST:Ciass ring in the snowbank halfway John, 3470. Will share in expenses. Dave taxes kill us.
the library (both of them) time is
between Alumni and the guard house. 
runnning out -would you consider Butt-hut
Reward. Call Dave, 1582 Long Spring Beers and Bowls forever for Irish
NEED ride to Island for becoming a five year man? What was in that puch, anyhow? children.
Break. Call 4+4606. 

(Why must I be) Ateenager in love. The Crowd
LOST: Set of keys in a small black pouch.....lost March 1st from the B-2 Need ride to Florida March 17th. Call Where is C·Mac sleeping?
Greg Young-Joan,
paking lot to Eng. Aud. If found please Kathy 6819. 
Can I listen to a Gemini Record and see May the wine and candlelight, always
call Ella, 7466. Mr. and Mrs. Talbot-
if I like them? make you glow so bright. Happy 1st.
Desperate for a ride near or to Tallahas­Thanks for letting Irish children stay at
Jeff

FOUND: One general motors car key on see for spring break. Will share driving, your home.
James P. Blunt:
the sidewalk between McCandles and the gas, expenses. Call Bill 8858. 
A belated Happy Valentines Day! Happy Birthday Mary Tyler Nix, all my
McCandles parking lot. Call the McCan­Members of the Dayton Flannigan X
Guess love, Julie
dles Hall desk at 4473. Psychology research aid. Part time . party are having another breakfast spe­Call 287-4785 after 9 pm. cial ... Watch for further detai Is.
Smile at Catherine McCullough--she had Celebrate Postwar America's 21st Birth­
LOST: One pair of large framed glasses in 
a trying weekend. day!
abrown case near ACC. Whoever called Need ride for three to the BIG APPLE, We are all so high at Lambda Chi. to say that they found them ---where are New York City, for spring break. We 
SMC Junior Class Invites you to join In Needle -Hmmmm:
they?! Rocky, 1n3. can't afford the train so call Tom, Doug, Due to the massive Bevo stick response
with spring vacation: Sunday March 12 Is it true that you have the skinniest 
or John 3414. hurry your orders....Call1728.
"Girls on the Beach" -A great Beach (fingers) on North Quad? Happy 21st.
FOUND: One packer calculator between 
party flick featuring the Beach Boys. Love,
Howard and Morrissey. Call 6768 to WORK IN JAPAN! Teach English To the bright gals In Augusta and
Gonga •

identify. conversation. No experience degree, or especially to the one who now seas things
Ride needed to Cols. Ohio this weekend.
Japanese required. Send long, stamped, in anew way-good luck this weak! Love
Call 8820. Happy 21st birthday,
self addressed envelope for details. and kisses...
Paul "Doris" and keep smiling! Love,
Japan, 181, 411 W. Center, Centralia, The newsboy
Nancille
FOR SALE WA \l85J1. 

Ride needed to Nortwest Ohio area Need ride to Ft. Lauderdale area or
(Toledo) March 11, Saturday. Please call To the cast and crew of the 1978 Keenan
OVERSEAS JOBS: Summer-year round Pompano Beach. Will share driving and
Dave at 8469. Rewa:
75 SILVER CAMARO .•••.TERRIFIC in Europe, Asia, Australia, S. America, expenses. Help! Call Jack (6706).
Congratulations ! Thank you for the
BUY....CALA NELA 272-0342. etc. All fields, $500-1200 monthly, 
That young man is very persistent. ...Why beautiful roses. You are the greatest!
expenses paid, sightseeing. Free infor­Happy Birthday Hubert!
don't you give him a ride. Florence and Anne
Must sell two America tickets. Good mation -Write: BHP Co., Box 4490, Love, 1seats. Matt 1374. Dept. 14, Berkeley CA 94704. Cairdo 
Few hours work -good pay. Call Happy Birthday to you, Pooh! 233-7949 between 8 and 2:30 pm. Love, Jill
FULL COLOR COTTON BOWL PIC­Two students need riders to Fort Meyers,TURES NOW AVAILABLE. CALL 8982. Fla. or vicinity for spring break.. Will 
Need ride to Mllwaukea • Leave Friday or Experience is the key! Vote Tuohy ,
share driving and expenses. Call Bnan at 

Saturday [3-10 or 3-11]. Call Kate 1264. wixted and Mullaney for SMC student
ND Jacket for sale. Gold sleeves. Good 1153. . 
Body 'Officers.
condition. $25.00. Call 234-Q980. 
L--~---~~~------~---~~~~~~,-~-~----~'"'~--;.>
.. 




.-------~-----------------,------------­
Wednesday, March 8, 1978
12 the observer 

Split decisions dominate Bengals 
by Leo Latz Klein reeling to the canvas in the Junior Terry Rogers constantly Sports Writer final round. Junior Walt Rogers landed roundhouse blows to the set up a replay of last year's head of Mike Pullano to capture a 
There were only a few TKO's championship bout with Ricci as he unanimous victory. and even less upsets, but nonethe­knocked down Dave Cernak in each Tom Plouff scored time and time less this year's rendition of the of the three rounds to take the fight again with effective inside combi­Bengal Bouts is among the most in an unanimous decision. nations against a hustling Brian competitive and evenly matched in The stocky and powerfully built Temme in a bout between two tall recent bout history. It was truly an Mike Murphy of South Bend put and slender 17S-pounders. Plouff's evening of athletic competition, the wiry Mark Roetzel away in the longer reach gave him the advan­sportmanship and entertainment at early rounds with strong right jabs tage in the final stanza and the its best. Last night at the Notre followed by roundhouse lefts. The fight for a split decision. This Dame ACC the slate of 26 fights other fight in the 147 pound bracket division featured a match between included some of the most slated two past Bengal champions. gridder Tom Flynn and Eric tenacious battles reflected in the What occurred was one of the most "Grandpa" Schmitt. What took number of split decisions. well-fought clashes of the evening. place was one of the biggest upsets 
If ever the best was saved until It was a fight to the finish with of the evening. Flynn seemed in la!>t it was true last night as the senior Pat O'Connell winning the control with his quicker combina­final bout featured last year's fight on a split decision over Brian tions and longer reach but Schmitt heavyweight champion John Kilb. uncoiled a stinging right that sent Vellulato facing football player Pat In thr first bout of the 152 lbs. footballer Flynn to the canvas. Bogg!>. In an intense display of section, seniors John Talbot and Schmitt's stunning TKO occurred pugilism, Boggs overcame Vellu­John Stephens fought it out for a at 1 :07 of the second round. tato'-; heighth and longer reach to right to return Friday night at the Neal Ellantrache took and early pound him with a continuous flurry Bengal finals. After falling victim advantage against boxing club of combinations to the head and to Talbot's longer jab in the first officer Mike Thomas and held on bod\'. two rounds, Stephens laid a furious for a unanimous win despite a 
Notre Dame defensive end Scott attack upon the tired Talbot in the strong third round by Thomas. Jeff Zcltek met walk-on Kim Uniacke third round. Talbot held on to Bartlett with wide roundhoused head to head in the other heavy­claim victory on a split decision. and flailing upper-cuts defeated weight tussle. In what could have Romano put away freshman Pete Viola's head which resulted in a Aggressive Walt Strausser gutsy competitor Gus Cifelli in the easily been the trenches of the line Cappelano with his lightning quick standing eight count in the first captured the other finals berth with final fight of the I8S pound weight of scrimmage, Zettek captured a jabs and longer reach. The other round, Viola came back in the next a TKO over Paul DeCelles at :57 of class. unamimous decision over Unaicke. 12S lbs. semi-final was a classic two rounds to take the bout. the last round. Two awesome brawling-style 
The 125 lbs. division set the fast match between the southpaw The 130 lbs. division was closely Joe "Lefty" Cooler, a senior boxers squared off for one of the and furious pace of the night. IP Darryl Reyes and the "righty" Joe matched. The result was two split from South Bend, disposed of a most heated battles of the evening the first bout of the evening Bengal Viola. although Reyes continuous­decisions. In the first semi-final gutsy Marty Curran by stalking in the first bout of the 19S division. Bout officer Dan "Danny Boy" ly connected with solid lefts to bout, J.P. Holbrook held off the him with jabs and then scoring with Jeff Caira and John DriscollMike Towle~=====================================================================:======================================================= feisty Rocky Romano to gain the tumultous left hooks to win the matched blows with Caira taking 
decision in this close battle. One of bout on a unanimous decision. A the advantage on early knock­last year's finalists, Doug Borgatti, slender but strong Steve Mynes­downs.-Caira sealed victory in the used combinations to win the other berge gained the finals position of final round with a thunderous left semi-final bout in the last rounds. the 157 lbs. division with a unani­that knocked Driscoll to the tarp to 
In one of the most spirited fights mous decision over Bob Thompson. end the fight. After an opening 
of the evening Bob Rivera charged Jim Devine, steady and cool flurry, Nick Raich knocked carl 
from his corner early in the fight under pressure, fought off the Penn to the floor early in the first 
Biorhythms 

:::=============:::;::=:=::;:::;::=:=:=:::=:=:=:====================:==============::============:=:=========:=====Towle's Rags 
with a thunderous assault upon the sprawling, brawling style of the round. Penn came back in the 
When Mark Spitz won seven gold medals for swimming at the 1972 taller Rick Erwin. Holding his own stockier Pete DeCelles to capture second connecting to Raich's head Olympics, it was learned by doctors that he had just happened to be at the against an attack that would have the victory on a split decision in the staggering him against the ropes.peak of his biorhythmic cycles. Biorhythms are periodicand regular cycle~ knocked any less of a boxer, Erwin 162 lbs. bracket. In one of the Raich won the bout in the final 
that affect our daily performances, controlling how we feel, think .md act responded with a combination of closest clashes of the boxing round by pinning Penn against the on a given day. And now biorhythms are making an entrance into the upper cuts and straight jabs which evening John Cotter claimed a spot ropes with combinations for a 
world of sports and it might not be long before coaches in all sports start earned him a place in the 137 lbs. in the finals with a unanimous unanimous decision. charting the biorhythmic of their players in determining coaching finals. One of last year's "almost decision over Jamie Stephensstrategies. Who knows? ....maybe set lineups in team-oriented sports ¥'ill champions", Brian Diamond, consistently scoring throughout the
won 
Pep rally slated_
become obsolete. a spot in the finals with a split bout with a long righ jab. How about a 'for instance'? At Pleasantville High School in New decision over Johnston Hill of 
In the competitive 168 pound There will be an NCAA playoff
Jersey, basketball coach Ken Leary followed the advice of the school's Hammond, Ind. section, Kevin Smith set the tone pep rally tonight at 7 p.m. in the athletic director and began charting his players' biorhythms. With this Tony Ricci displayed his for the first fight by landing a solid LaFortune Ballroom. Featured method Leary claiJ.ts that he is able to determine which players will be hot championship form of last year as right to the jaw of Steve Gartrell. speakers include Chris "Hawk' and which players will be cold even before pre-game warmups ....a stroke he continuously harrassed Mark Smith's aggressiveness gave h!m Stevens, Digger Phelps, the Figrt­of genius. Pleasantville High won I3 of its first IS games. There may be Klein with a series of upper cuts to the advantage for the remainder of ing Irish basketball team and t/le more evidence to the legitimacy of following biorhythms. the mid section and head that sent the bout as he won unanimously. Notre Dame Marching Band. 
Stockbridge High School in Wisconsin was mired in a losing streak s:ump of 90 ganes when they just happened to play a game on a day on which most of the players' biorhythms peaked. They won the game to stop the infamous streak. 
ND trio awaits N.CAA finals 
When Duck Williams starred in victory over UCLA in January with I9 p• 1ints, he was at the top of his biorhythmic cycles. The same is true with by Brian Beglane this past weekend when he was voted to the finals by the coaches as B;uce Flowers when he had I9 points and IS rebounds against DePaul. Sports Writer voted Midwest Regional Coach of wild card berths. 
In European countries, hypnotism has become a popular mode of the Year by his colleagues. It was DiSabato finished second in the athletic preparation. Obviously, the Europeans regard mental Bob Golic, Dave DiSabato, and the second time this season he has Midwest tourney, losing to Tim ccnditioning quite highly and for good reason. Hypnotism conditions the Rob Dreger all have two more gotten an award of that kind. He Moon of Northern Colorado 9-3. mmd to relax a td concentrate while blocking out most emotional fear. weeks of practice than the rest of was aslso voted National Catholic He made it to the finals by 
While the art of charting biorhythms doesn't affect the mental condition the Notre Dame wrestling team, Coach of the Year in February. defeating Marquette's Tom of the person, i• does allow one to know exactly when he or she will be at but the three do not mind one bit. "I was very touched on receiving Chicantek 9-4 and Eric Kriebel of mental highs and lows. In addition, other biorhythmic cycles allow one to The Trio extended their season by that award. It is always an honor, Indiana State S-3. predict emotional states and physical capacities at a given time. qualifying for the NCAA finals at of course, but receiving it from Dreger ended in second place 
The 'science' of charting biorhythms is actually more than 80 years old the Midwest Regional Tournamen, these coaches was even more of a also by losing to Mike Decker of 
since being 'discovered' in modern science history. They were detected last weekend. It is the first time in thrill. Northern Colorado 11-6. He won wren doctors isolated patterns of human sickness. Eventually, regular three years that more than one Air Force coach Jack LaBonde 2-1 in overtime in the semifinals cydes affecting the nervous system and emotions, as well as intellectual Irish wrestler will be making the was coach of the 1976 Olympic against Lowell Tempas of Drake. strength were found. trip to the finals. team and indiana State coach Fran Other second place finishers for 
There are three kinds of biorhythmic cycles. The are physical cycles (23 Overall, the Notre Dame McCann was the top ranked the Irish were Mike Padden (158) days), the emotional cycle (28 days) and the intellectual cycle (33 days). wrestling team performed out­Olympic wrestler for the U.S. in and Pat Landfried (167). It was During the active first halt: of each stage, people are in top form and draw standingly at the Midwest tourney, Montreal. To receive the award Landfried's first appearance on the much energy with wh!ch to function. The second half of each phase, the taking second place among the 15 from coaches such as these makes mats since breaking his ankle !>assive phase. signals a low supply of energy. The physical cycle controls schools that competed. Five Irish it that much more of an honor,'' he January 14. The senior closed out 
·>Ur strenght, stanina and coordination. The emotional cycle relates to our grapplers made it to the finals, and commented. his career with a very respectable moods and love-life while the intellectual cycle concerns concentration, Head Coach Ray Sepeta was more Bob Golic qualified for the NCAA finish, losing in the finals to Oscar judgement and learning ability. than pleased with his team's finals for the third consecutive year Ordonez of Drake 6-2. 
. So you want to c;tart your biorhythms. It's simple. counting your date performance. by pinning Jerry Anderson of Irish co-captain Pat McKillen of birth as Day I, d.:termine the number of days that you have been alive. "There is really no way we Drake in 4:58. Golic is 13-0 this lost a heartbreaker the first night of 1•> figure out whether :;ou are in the active or passive phase of each cycle, should have finished as well as we season after rejoining the squad in competition, getting pinned in the just divide the total number of days that you have been alive by the length did, but somehow we managed to. the beginning of February. The last seconds of the match. The of each of the respective cycles. Disregarding whole number answers, Schools such as Illinois State, junior heavyweight's career record senior from Waukegan, Ill., closes ju~t look at what you have for a remainder. That tells you how may days Southern Illinois, and Indiana com­is 4S-3-1 and his three setbacks out his career as Notre you are into each cycle. If t}Je remainder is zero or equals the number of peted, and they had beaten us have come only in the NCAA all-time winningest wrestler. days exactly half way through the cycle, then you are in the midst of a badly during the season. Still, we tournament. He finished fourth For both Dreger and DeSabato, ·critical' day. Those ::tre the days you have to watch out for irregularities finished ahead of them,'' noted the last year in the NCAA finals, but this will be their first trip to the in your feelings anc' behavior. third year coach. coach Sepeta feels that might NCAA finals. They will go 
So what was I domg last night? I was charting the biorhythms of the "We had finalists in half of the change this season. the best in the country, a ·Notre Dame basketl•all players for the Houston game on Sunday. To be weight classes, and against the "Bob appears to have an have their work cout out for honest, the results were not overwhelmingly optimistic although Tracy competition we had, that is out­excellent chance of doing very well "Dave and Rob are both Jackson, Duck Willhms and Bill Hanzlik should all be in top form for the standing. I was very impressed." in the finals. He has not been dogs in the tournament. They first round of the t.CAA's. Should we get by Houston and go on to The one team the Irish could not working out as long as the other never let up and keep the intPn,.,ih Lawrence, Kansas flr the second round on March 17, then look for Dave overcome was the University of wrestlers so that may be to his going to have a chance of ..,•••~"".5· Batton, Rich Brannmg, Williams and Jackson to be in high gear in all Northern Colorado. It totaled 6S disadvantage. He should make up Either one could place on three categories. A ; for Coach Digger Phelps, he will be at the very peak and one half points in taking top for it by sheer ability." day but they are both long of his intellectual cycle for both the first and second .-ound. That's team honors. The Irish followed Dave DiSabato (126) and Rob going into the finals," noted encouraging. with 49 while Drake trailed in third Dreger (177) both made it to the Sepeta. 
A time for predictions? I see a final four of Indiana, Marquette, UCLA with 44. NCAA finals as "wild card" 'i'he NCAA finals will and Louisville although Arkansas or San Francisco could surprise. I'll Notre Dame coach Sepeta wrestlers. A total of five grapplers !'.{arch 16-18 at the University have trivia column answers next week. received another feather in his cap from the midwest region were, Maryland in College Park. 








