In House and Senate 
Elections increase Republican minorities 

WASHINGTON [AP]-In mid-term elections with a conservative flavor, Republicans have enlarged their minorities in the Senate by three seats and in the House by a dozen, while scoring statehouse gains that will be an asset in 1980 and beyond. 
Texas tipped their way yesterday with the election of William P. Clements as the state's second Republican governor. Clements, an oilman and former deputy secretary of defense, won after a long close count over Democratic Attorney General John L. Hill. 
That gave Republicans a net gain of six governors in Tuesday's balloting. 
Republican Senator John G. Tower barely survived the chal­lenge of Democratic Rep. Robert Krueger in another tight Texas race. 
In Virginia, Republican John W. Warner, the former secretary of the Navy and husband of actress Elizabeth Taylor, apparently held a 
GOP Senate seat against Andrew 
P. Miller,  a former state attorney  
general.  
But that  one  was  so  close that  

Miller said he wasn't conceding a thing until the official canvass of the vote. 
In New Hampshire, Republican Gordon Humphrey, a conservative and an airline pilot from Sunapee, narrowly defeated Democratic Senator Thomas J. Mcintyre, in one of Tuesday's big suprises. Mcintyre had company. All told, 

an independent studl"nt newspaper sl"rving notre dame and st. mary's Vol. XIII, No. 46 Thursday, November 9, 1978 
Roemer reverses decision 
Senior Bar to be open Friday 
by John McGmth Staff Reporter 
Reversing an earli~r decision this week, Dean of Students James Roemer has decided to allow Senior Bar to open for happy hour on Friday night. 
"Based on the imput that Andy McKenna, Student Body Presi­dent, gave me, I'm going to respect their (students') opinion and allow tbe bar to remain open," Roemer. 
He was quick to add, however, "next year it's going to be differ­ent. If the seniors decide through their leadership that they will continue the Death March trad­ition, that decision is going to cause us to close the Senior Bar the entire day and night on that date." 
As it stands now, however, the bar will not be open during the afternoon while the Death March is in progress. "It will open at 9 p.m., and even then, we won't serve anyone who is obviously intoxi­cated,'' Roemer explained. 
"It's a bad scene," he said, adding, '"It's a disgrace to the neighborhood. That's why the 
neighbors usually alert the police, not the University." 
Accordingto Roemer, "In the past, students have been arrested for disorderly conduct, resisting arrest and indecent exposure, but in the last few years, they've made more of an effort to control it (the Death March)''. 
Roemer made it clear that one of the major factors considered in his decision was the fact that the closing of the bar would adversely affect a large number of alumni returning to the campus for the Saturd-ay's game. 
That. point was also heavily stressed in a letter from McKenna to Roemer dated yesterday. 
"1 think it's a good decision," McKenna said, adding "I hope everything will go well this week. If we can show that the Senior Death March is a social event, then maybe the Administration's con­cern about next year won't exist." 
Mike Schlageter, Senior Bar manager, commented, "the out­come is basically what I thought it 
would be." "I really believe that the best thing for the class and the bar was for it to remain open. In my mind, I really thought Dean Roemer would make the right decision--and he did," Schlageter said. 
Jerry Castellini, Senior Class President, and the man responsible for leading the traditional proces­sion that each year preceeds the last home football game of the year, told the Observer, ''As far as I'm concerned, we're going ahead with it (the Death March) and we're going to make it the best one ever.'' 
"We've put a Jot of work into planning it. For example, we've set up an itinerary that ensures that we won't reach that six-way inter­section on South Bend Avenue at rush hour--that's where most of the trouble has occurred in past years," Castellini explained. 
The Senior Class President pointed out that he had been in contact with the South Bend police and, according to what he learned, "everything looks alright." 
''The decision to close the bar on Friday night wouldn't have affected us anyway--most of the guys won't even be up by that time anyway,'' Castellini said. 
five Democratic Senators were 
denied new terms, while two 
Republicans were beaten in re­
election bids. 
Only one of those incumbent 
losers, Sen. Robert Griffin of 
Michigan, could be classified as 
relatively conservative, and he was 
no hard liner. 
All the rest were generally 
counted among Senate liberals, at 
least on domestic policy. 
While both parties cast 
themselves with the economizers 
and the tax cutters in handling the 
season's biggest issue, neither 
managed to gain exclusive custody 
of the austerity theme. 
As a result, voters in more than a 
few states had a choice between 
candidates who sounded a lot alike 
when they spoke of curbing 
government spending in the fight 
against inflation. 
White House Press Secretary 
Jody Powell said yesterday the 
voters seemed inclined to support 
President Carter's effort to hold 
down the federal budget deficit. 
Powell said he couldn't forecast 
the impact of congressional 
changes on Carter's legislative 
proposals. 
· ?owell said he doubted the 96th 
Congress would be much different 
from the 95th on major issues. 
It was in contests for governors that the Republicans made their strongest showing, wresting six states from the Democrats. Democrats took over from 
Republicans in New Hampshire, 
Kansas, and South Carolina. 
With Clements in Texas and 
Richard L. Thornburgh in 
Pennsylvania, the GOP took over 
governorships in two of the big 
population states that are pivotal in 
presidential campaign years. 
Thornburgh, a former federal prosecutor, beat Pete Flaherty, who used to be mayor of Pittsburgh and deputy U.S. attorney general. 
Governors and their state organizations can be helpful to their party's presidential nomi­nees. 
The Republicans also have been worried about congressional redistricting after the 1980 census. They fear that partisan alignment of congressional districts by Democratic legislatures could further cripple their chances in Congress. 
A governor can block that, and while the Republicans are still outnumbered in the state houses, the eighteen states they have now represent progress for them. They had only 12 until Tuesday. 
Their incumbents held on to three of the biggest states. Gov. James 
T. Thompson was re-elected in lllinois, as were Gov. William Milliken in Michigan and Gov. James A. Rhodes in Ohio. 
Add Texas and Pennsylvania and Republican governors are in charge of five ·of the ten most populous states. 
Fr. Hesburgh celebrated Mass last night in Holy Cross Hall. [photo by John Macor] 
SMC seniors to vote on 
commencement speakers 

The ducks on Saint Mary's lake seem to be taking advantage of the recent Indian summer weather [photo by john Macor] 
~­

by Jean Powley Saint Mary's Editor 
Saint Mary's seniors will have the opportunity to vote for a commencement speaker today. Balloting will take place in the LeMans lobby between 11 a.m. and 3 p.m., according to Donna Nopnan, senior class president. 
Ten speakers are now under consideration and students will be asked to vote for their first three choices. The votes will then be tallied and the graduation com­mittee will then proceed to contact the most popular nominees until one agrees to serve as the speaker. 
The nominees are: 
George Bush--former National Chairman of the Republican Party. In 1970 he was appointed Perma­nent Representative of the United States to the United Nations. Currently, he is a progressive candidate for the presidency. 
Robert Coles--author and social critic. A specialist in child psy­chiatry, he has recently completed a five-volume series called "Chit­dren of Crisis.'' Last year he published "Women in Cris!s." His writings have been classtfied as showing a ''nearly perfect example of deft and humane application of psychology to the understanding of man in a social situation." 
John B. Connally-former Gover­nor of Texas. Connally served as Secretary of the Treasury during the Nixon administration. He is a probably candidate for the Republi­can Party presidential race in 1980. 
Jill Ker Conwy--first woman President of Smith College. She is a strong advocate of colleges for women. 
Ella T. Grasso--governor of Con-­necticut. Grasso is the first woman ever to become the governor of a state on her own and not as the wife 
of a previous incumbent.  Sh_e has  
characterized herself  as  a  hberal  
old-style Democratic pro.  

-Hanna Holborn Gray--President of the University of Chicago. She IS a European history scholar with a Ph.D from Harvard, and is a 
[continued on page 4] 


the observer Thursday, November 9!_!_978
2 
At weekly audience 
,...News Briefs ____.....,. 


John Paul praises human rights 
I==================~ National Peace torch hegins journey 
new york-'torch for international peace' lit by U.N. Ambassador Andrew Young began a 450-mile Journey yeste~day to Youngstown, Ohio the site of the 2nd annual U.S. International Peace Race. You~g. joined by Youngstown Mayor J. Phillip Richley, presented the torch to Ted Corbitt, the founder of the Road Runners Oub of America, during noon ceremonies at U.N. Plaza.. . . 
The torch was to be handed between runners makmg ten-mtle sttnts 
and was to reach Youngstown tomorrow at 4:30. . . . A field of 2,000 runners from several coun~nes, m~ludmg Olympians Frank Shorter of Colorado and Lasse Vtren of Ftnland, was expected to compete in the 25-kilom~ter event. 
Shroud undergoes tests 
MISSOURI-American researchers so far have concluded that the Shroud of Turin, reputed to be the burial cloth of Christ, is not a 14th century forgery, a painting or a contact print. But Kenneth Stevenson, spokesman for tbe scientists, said at a news conference Tuesday that it might take two years 'o study all the tests performed on the cloth in Turin, Italy, last month by a team of international experts. The cloth bears the image of a bearded man, and researchers said the photographic tests showed the image is three-dimensional. A normal photo might show shadings of light, said researchers, but not how far the body is from the cloth as is shown in one test of the shroud. 
Twins abound at school 
TENNESSEE-John Dudney says he doesn't usually go around counting sets of twins, but when a newspaper asked how many twins there were at Dupont Junior High School, Dudney figured he should know. After all, he's the principal. He found eight sets of twins among the 771 students, about 31/l times the national average. 'I was really suprised. I had seen several, but I didn't think there were this many.' Tammy Wilkinson, age 12, said she and her sister Becky, 'get jealous sometimes, but most of the time it is over little things. Becky's sort of jealous because I got an A in math. Fraternal twins Beth and Richard Allen said they enjoy birthdays together. Beth said she also preferred her special status as a twin. 'It's much better than being just regular.' 

Weather 
Partly cloudy, windy and warmer today and tomorrow. Highs today in the mid and upper sixties. Lows tonight around 40. Highs tomorrow around 70. Winds, southerly, 15-25 mph today. 

~On Campus Today_-----.. 
all day interviews, northwester school of law, 222 admin. bldg., sponsored by the pre-law society 
9 am-3:30 pm book sale, university of nd· press, great hall, o'shag 
10 am-5 pm book sale, presented by friends of the library, library 
noon-9 pm 4 pm 
4:30pm 
7-9:30 pm 7,9:15 & 
11:30 pm 7:30pm 
8pm 
8pm 
8pm 
8pm 
8:15pm 
midnight concourse 
career workshop, hourly workshops throughout the day, stapleton lounge, smc 
seminar, "two types of localized excess electrons in crystaline ice and aqueous glasses," dr. h.a. gillis, conf. rm. radiation lab 
lecture, "federal indian law: a tribal point of view," kent p. tupper, esq., 110 law school 
workshop, "interview skills," dan powell & betsy twitchell, executive board rm., lemans 
film, "the way we were," eng. aud., $1 
discussion, "the discourse of history," dr. hayden white, u. of california, santa cruz, 242 o'shag 
lecture, "cathedral liturgy: the chrism mass,' prof. neil rasmussen, o.p., catholic u. of america, architectural aud. 
play, "you're a good man charlie brown," wash. hall, sponsored by student union cultural arts commission, $1 
guest concert, goshen college music majors, little theatre, smc 
concert, steve martin with special guest steve goodman, ace 
lecture, "rhythm, theory & performance," prof. peter westergaard, princeton u., crowley recital hall 
wsndalbum hour, "let's get small" by steve martin, am 648. 
VATICAN CITY [ap]-Pope John Paul II yesterday called human rights ''the great effort of our time" and said all men should defend themselves when systems trespass on them. 
"It cannot be man for the 

system, but the system must be for 
man'' the former Polish cardinal 
told 10,000 pilgrims attending his 
weekly public audience in St. 
Peter's Basilica. "therefore it is 
necessary to defend oneself from 
any stiffening of the system.'' 
He was repeatedly interrupted 

by applause as he spoke in seven 
lanuages-Italian, French, English, 
German, Spanish Portugese and 
Polish. 
The 58 year old pontiff, who performed forced labor under the Nazis in occupied Poland during World War IT, said '' it is necessary to evaluate the great effort of our time that tries to spell out and consolidate human rights in the life of today's mankind, of people as well as of states. 
''The present pope will certainly 

have to come back to these subjects 
Norman Rockwell dead at 84 
STOCKBRIDGE Mass. [AP)-Ar­tist Norman Rockwell died at his home late Wednesday night. He was 84. 
Rockwell, who sold his first illustrations to the Saturday Even­ing Post at age 22, subsequently painted some 360 covers for the magazine. 
He did illustrations for many other magazines during his long career, including a Post cover celebrating the transatlatic flight of Charles Lindbergh in 1927 and a Look magazine picture depicting the imprint of Neil Armstrong's left foot on the dusty surface of the Moon after the first moonlanding in 
.969. 
But most of his illustrations were folksy, warm scenes of small-town Americana. 
In 1960, he said of his work: many times," said John Paul, who, as a cardinal, vigorously defended the church against communist re­pression in his own country. 

The pope did not name any specific country or refer to any specific political system in his remarks, but Vatican sources said the papal statment indicates he would like to see the Roman Catholic Church take a stand on human rights "whether it's com­munist suppression or the open conflict in Lebanon or racial discri­mination." 
At the same time, they empha­sized the pope's approach would be conciliatory and not confrontation­al. 
The pope, shortly after his election Oct. 16, told the cardinals that while the church wants to make an effective contrubution to 
Nader donates 
works to library 
Ralph Nader has donated the following materials to the Notre Dame library and they are now on reserve under his name in the Memorial Library: 
Wblsde Blowing Salary Grab People and Taxes American University: Who Pays for Them, Who Uses Them, Who Profits from Them Public Citizen's Congressional Voting Index 1978 The Shadow Government the cause of peace and justice, it has "no intention of political interference, nor of participation in the working out of temporal af­fairs.'' 
He also has vowed to maintain a dialogue with the countries whose policies the church does not ap­prove. 


Leary to speak 
Dr. Timothy Leary, legendary figure of the 1960's consciousness movement, will speak Monday night at 7:30 p.m. in Washington Hall. 
Leary's latest interests have included space migration, life ex­tension, and intelligence increase. 
The Student Union Academic Commission is sponsoring the event. All are invited, and admis­sion is free_. 
air Styling 
for men and women who like to look 
their best ... 277-0734 
Y2 mile north of campus, (U.S. 31 N) Across from Randall's Inn 



Book Shelfs Stereo Shelfs 
Amer. Express


Floor Sofas CRfATiVF 
§~ 
Master Charge

Silk Screens 
Visa Accepted
and much 

more Lo:>KS lifestyle Furniture and Unique gift ideas 

''Maybe as I grew up and found the ~~~=~~~~~::~:-~~~~~~:'~~~~~~~~~ 
world wasn't the perfectly pleasant place I had thought it to be, I uncounsciously decided that if it wasn't an ideal world, it should be, and so painted only the ideal aspects of it -pictures in which there were no slatterns or self-cen­tered mothers, in which on the contrary, there were ohly Foxy Grandpas who played baseball with the kids and boys fished from logs and got up circuses in the back­yard." 
*The Observer 

Night Editor: Sue Wuetcher As!it. Night Editor: Kathie Tighe, Dave Brosh Layout Staff: Lenore Koczon, Tom Behney Editorial Layout: Rosemary Mills Sports Layout: Debbie Dahr­ling Typists: Tom Powanda Beth Pipp, Beth Willard Early Morning Typist: Lisa DiValerio Day Editor: Keith Melerango Copy Reader: Mike Ridenour and Tim Joyce Ad Layout: Matt (no more horserace) DeSalvo, Barb Pratt and Joe Photographer: John Macor 
The Observer Is published Mon­day through Friday except during exam and VKOIIItlon periods. Tt)e Observer Is publlsiMd by the students of Notre Deme Md Saint M.,Ys College. Subscriptions INIY be purchased tor S20 per yeer CS 10 per semester) from The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second dass postqe paid, Notre Dame, Indiana, 4UU. 
The Observer Is a member of the Associated Preas. All repro· ductloft rlthtt are retervM. 

NICKlE'S ~~A Rest Stop on the Toil Road to Hell '' 



ANNOUNCES: 
I  I  
~  A WilD ~  C~rJ.'i  PABST  ~  
i  PROMOTION  i  
II  PITCHERS OF PABST  $1.50  I1  
II•  After Steve Martin Concert II to 1 am  1 II  

L--------------------·--------·--------.J 
.......................................--------------------------------~---. 
_C.' 

l_ 
McKenna submits parietal discipline rule change 
by Kevin Richardson Senior Staff Reporter 
A proposal to make parietal violations a haJI offense is currently being supported by both Student Body President Andy McKenna a~d Judicial Coordinator iayne Rtzzo. McKenna said. "We are attempting to clarify Du Lac on the parietals issue and make formal policy out of something which is already informal policy. 
B~th Fr. Van Wolvlear, Vice Prestdent for Student Affairs, and Dean of Students James Roemer have already voted against the reform proposal at the October 9 ~eeting of the Campus Life Coun­ctl (CLC). VanWolvlear declined comment on why he voted against the proposal and Roemer was unavailable for comment. Wolv­lear said "I will give my official reasons for voting against the measure at the next CLC meet­
ing." 
''The majority of rectors support the proposal and everyone on the CLC voted for it except for Fr. Van and Dean Roemer," McKenna said. "What we propose is to allow students to participate in the enforcement of parietals at the halt level, as is currently permitted with alcohol regulations, the use of marijuana, and other hall offenses,'' Rizzo said. 
Rizzo emphasized that ''This is no change in the current Univeristy rule but rather a change in the disciplinary procedures for the enforcement of that rule. This allows for concurrent jurisdiction on the hall and University levels." 
The Student Government sta~e­ment which supports the reform measure states that "last year, while removing student represen­ation from the University Judicial 
Board, the Administration empha­sized its commitment to student 
TEHRAN* Iran [AP]-The Iranian military put on a show of force yesterday and martial law authori­ties arrested an ex-prime minister in a campaign to discourage oppo­sition to Shah Mohammed Reza Pahlavi. 
An expected antigovernment de­monstration in the Tenran bazaar failed to materialize. 
The arrested former prime minister, Amir Abass Hoveyda, headed the Cabinet for 13 years until he was dismissed Aug. 6, 1977. He is one of dozens of former officials arrested in recent days to defuse opposition claims the government tolerates corrup­tion and abuse of authority. 
Troops backed by tanks and armored personnel carriers guard­ed key areas of the city and its giant bazaar, which was closed. The bazaar, which also contains the huge Shah Mosque , has been the staging area for many of the anti-Shah demon­strations that have erupted since January. 
A demonstration reportedly called by exiled Shiite Moslem holy man Ayatollah Khomaine, who symbolizes the antiShah forces, did not develop, but the armed forces remained on alert in the event Khomaini's supporters surged onto the streets again to smash banks and shops as they have done in recent days: 
Many bazaar shop owners were reluctant to reopen after rioting Sunday and other pulled the shutters down as a sign of protest against the new military-led gov­ernment appointed by the Shah Monday. The new government was appointed after the collapse of Prime Minister Jaafar Sharif­Emami's civilian governent Sun­day. 
participation, both in framing the standards for student conduct and
. , 
m enforcement those standards when violated. The hall judicial board system was strengthened and standardized campus-wide in order to broaden student input and responsibility.'' 
"Hall Judicial Boards have de­monstrated that they are able to handle the responsibility effec­tively," Rizzo said. "Our proposal is a natural extension of the process of allowing students greater say over the rules which govern them. It neither challenges the parietals concept nor makes enforcement untenable. All it does is assure the students a reasonable measure of participation in the enforcement of a rule which is intended to insure their privacy,'' added. 
An· attempt to change parietals violations from University to hall offenses was also made in the spring of 1975 when the then Student Body President Ed Byrne 
reported the results of a poll taken by the Office of Student Affairs. The poll covered the parietals issue and was given to every rector and assistant rector on campus. 
Regarding the question of whether parietals offense should become hall offenses, one Rector in the 1975 survey said "generally 
the parietals (violations) which don't become public are already taken care of in the halls.'' Anotehr Another respondant from the same same survey said that "the (hall judicial) boards could live more comfortably with rules they had some input in making." 
According to McKenna, current rectors ''by and large agree with the assesments of their predeces­sors. They believe that students won't feel responsibility for any­thing unless they are given free­dom to help formulate rules." 






Military exercises martial law 
Khomaini, living in Paris, said yesterday he will call on his millions of followers to take up 
arms against the government if the present political struggle fails to achieve its objective. 
Khomaini, 78, who has threaten­ed to withdraw his support from any opposition politican who co­operates with the shah, said if the current turmoil in Iran should bring a Marxist or pro-communist gov­ernment to power, he and his followers "will react against them exactly in the same way as we are doing now against the shah." 
He said he envisaged no political role for himself in a future Iranian government. 
The opposition to the shah is spearheaded by Moslem tradition­alists who demand an end to the shah's Westernizing reforms, 

Ramond Herbert gave a piano recital last night in the Library Auditorium [photo by John Macor] 

Council tor Retarded requests tickets 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Big Brothers and Big Sisters, the Council for the Retarded, and . Badin Hall request student football· tickets for the Tennessee game. 
Approximately 300 underprivi· leged kids and ·handicapped kids and adults need tickets to attend as guests of the Campus Volunteer groups. 
Tickets are collected during supper hours at the dining halls, while off campus students may drop off tickets at the student activities office in LaFortune. 
Big Brothers and Big Sisters may pick up tickets at 203 Alumni on Saturday morning. For further information call Dan Monroe (1109) or Mark Bruggeman (283-9351). 
which they say contradict the teachings of the Koran, the Mos­lem holy book. The religious protesters ~ere joined by political activists and disgruntled workers who want an end to martial law and other concessions. 
The capital's newspapers re­fused to publish under self-censor­ship guidelines laid down by the military government Monday. The journalists' union said it would instruct its members to return to work only if censorship was lifted. 
Meanwhile. Iran Air resumed operations yesterday after a week­long walkout. The national car· rier's management pledged to do everything possible to meet stri­kers' political demands. The demands included release of all political prisoners, return to ci,vilian rule and no action against strike leaders. 

SCIENTIFIC HAIR CARf CENTfH 
• 
BLOW STYLING • PERMS • FACIALS 

• 
HAIR CUTTING & COLOR SPECIALIS rs • MANICURES 


• ARCHES • TRICHOANALYSIS OP~N: MON-SAT 8 OPERATORS & THtJRS EVES 
<f> 100CENHR MISHAWAKA 256•1444 
this friday and every friday 
5:15 mass and supper 
I' ' i 




Greyhound Ax· 
The cure for 

college blahs. 

It's a feeling that slowly descends upon you. The exams, the pop tests, the required reading, the hours at the library, the thesis­they won't go away. 
But you can. This weekend, take off, say hello to your friends, see the sights, have a great time. You'll arrive with money in your pocket because your Greyhound trip doesn't take that much out of it. 
If you're feeling tired, depressed and exhausted, grab a Greyhound and split. It's a sure cure for the blahs. 
Greyhound Service 
To One-way Round-Trip Leave Arrive 
Chicago $ 8.10 $15.40 10:20 am 11:15 am Cleveland $22.05 $41.90 7:00am 1:50pmPittsburgh $32.80 $62.35 12:50 pm 
11:20 pmDetroit $17.15 $32.60 11:35 am 4:55pmMilwaukee $13.50 $25.65 1:50pm 6:00pm 
Phone 
Call 287-6541 

~­

GO GREYIIOIIIJ 

Thursday, November 9, 1978

the observer

4 

[continued from page 1] dynamic and articulate speaker. Elizabeth Kennan--President of Mount Holyoke College. She believes that only in women's colleges can women develop the strength to deal with the "crosscut­ting responsibilities of family life.'' Juanita Kreps--Secretary of Commerce since 1977. She is the first woman and the first pro­fessional economist to hold that Cabinet post. She has specialized in labor demographics, with parti­cular attention to employment of women and older workers. Sister Josephine Lucker--a graduate from Saint Mary's in 1954. Lucker was a campus leader and class president. She joined the Maryknoll Sisters in 1955 and taught and served as headmistress at Maryknoll High School in Tan­ganyika. Lucker also taught at 
need resumes in a hurry? 

*I

1 insty-prints 
the wiz of the printing biz! 

j rag bond 25 -81/2 X 11 $2.55
j 
' 
l 
20J N. Matn SoBend 289 697 
I 
Rosary College in Mwanza and is a witty and dynamic speaker. 
Sylvia Porter--financial column­ist for the New York Post. She is the only woman writing a column on financial and allied subjects for a major newspaper. Porter is the author of many books and articles. 
Seniors who will be going on the Senior Class Trip, according to Noonan, should also be aware of the mandatory Senior Class Trip,' meeting Tuesday at 7:30 in o· Laughlin Auditorium. All Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students going ofl the trip must attend. T-shirts can be ordered and paid for at that time. 
Also, there will be a senior happy hour in the Saint Mary's snack shop beneath the dining hall from 3 to 6 p.m., Nov. 17. Theme of the happy hour will be ''Look Out LA--Here We Come." 
'Charlie Brown' opens tonight 

The Student Players' production of "You're a Good Man, Charlie Brown" opens tonight at Washi~gton Hall at 8 p.m. Addi­tional performances will be tomor­row and Saturday at 8, with a Sunday matinee at 2 p.m. 
Student Players is an organiza­tion funded through the Student Union Cultural Arts Commission in the interest of providing Notre Dame-Saint Mary's students with the opportunity of experiencing all aspects of theatre first-hand. 
New lighting upgrades security 
by Brian McFeeters 
Lighting on much of the Notre Dame campus is being upgraded this fall to increase student security. The maintenance department is doing the work and the improvements are already un­derway. New lights have been installed on the Southeast corner of Sacred Heart Church and at the foot of the administration building as well as at several other ''pockets of darkness" on the main quad, according to Assistant to the Pro­vost Sr. John Miriam Jones. Fixtures are being placed on the buildings themselves and on new light poles. 
Jones said lighting improve­ments were not a direct response to past attacks on students, but that such incidents always made the problem of dark areas seem more urgent. "We have been in­creasingly aware of the need for lighting since the University went co-ed several years ago,'' she said. 
Improvements are als9 being made on the lake road, from the East gate to the Main gate, where more translucent globes are being put on the mercury lamps to increase brightness, and new lights are being installed on trees and electrical poles to make this,route 
Indiana banks establish endowed chair 
An endowed chair in banking has been established at Notre Dame by a consortium of 21 banks in 10 Indiana cities. it was announced yesterday by Bro. Leo V. Ryan, of the University's College of Business Administration. 
"The South Bend-Mishawaka­Elkhart banks have exercised out­standing leadership in pledging one-half the total support for this banking program," Dean Ryan noted, explaining that more than $800,000 has been committed to underwrite the permanent endow­ment of the professorship in the College of Business Administration to be called the Indiana Chair in Banking. 
The South Bend area banks are the American National Bank and Trust Company, the First Bank and Trust Company, the National Bank and Trust Company, and the Saint Joseph Bank and Trust Company, all of South Bend; the First National Bank of Elkhart and the Valley Bank and Trust Company of Mshawaka. Major banks in other Indiana cities are also partici­pating. 
Dean Ryan said a senior profes­sor with acknowledged teaching ability and research experience will be sought for the chair. "The occupant of the Indiana Banking Chair will relate the needs of the banking profession to the University and help bring its intellectual and scholarly resaurces to bear on current banking prob­lems," he said. 

more sage. lier in the year, and the improve­
Physical Plant Director Donald ments were started several weeks Dedrick said the planned lighting ago. improvements would be completed Jones said a professional lighting in the next three to four weeks. company had earlier estimated a About 20 new light poles will be cost of one million dollars to installed on areas ofthe quads, and improve the lighting on the cam­lights will also be added on the pus. "So we decided to do it road to Carroll Hall and behind ourselves." Holy Cross Hall. She believes the lighting 
Sites for new light were specified situation will be much improved by Jones and others after "night when the present project is com­walks'' in which any darkened plete. "It will be better, but not areas were noted. Security Audit, finished," she said, and added that Inc. and a committee chaired by she would continue to push for Jones made recommendations ear-improvements. 
Leftist terrorists murder Italian district attorney 
FROSINONE Italy, [AP]-A terror­ist assassination squad shot and killed a district attorney and his two bodyguards yesterday, raking their car with sub machine gun fire in teh the bloodiest strike since the kidnap and shooting of former Premier Aldo Moro. 
One terrorist was wounded in the crossfire of his comrades and his body was found in the car the terrorists used to flee from the scene, police said. 
Investigators recovered spent shells in the car and said the assailant may have been killed by his comrades in their hurry to make a getaway. 
He was identified by police as Roberto Capone, 24, a former sociology student. Police said Capone had links with several leftist groups. 
The attack occurred on a lonely highway about 30 miles south of Rome. 
The other terrorists were able to escape into the hills despite ·a search by hundreds of police in squad cars and helicopters. Aut­horities said they believed three terrorists were involved in the attack, but there is speculation that a fourth may have been there as a lc kour. 
A caller told a Milan newspaper several hours later that the attack was the work of "Frontline," a leftist terrorist group that has claimed responsibility for a number of killings and bombings. 
Police said they had no way of establishing whether the call ac­tually was from the terrorists. 
The Red Brigades, Italy's most feared terrorist gang kidnapped Moro and killed his five body­guards in a street ambush in Rome March 16. Moro's bullet-riddled body was found in a car in the capital 54 days later. 
Police said yesterday's attack' occurred as Fedele Calvosa, 59, district attorney in this town of 35,000 was being driven to work from his home. 
As the blue Fiat came out of a turn on the provincial high­way, the driver braked to avoid hitting a car blocking a cross roads. 
A witness told police that three persons stepped out of the thick bushes on both sides of the road and opened fire at the car 
Westergaard to give music lecture 

Peter Westergaard of Princeton University will present a leture, "Rhythm; Theory and Perfor­mance," at 8:15 tonight in the Crowley Recital Hall. The lecture, sponsored by the Notre Dame Music Department, is open to the public without charge. 
Westergaard, the author of "An Introduction to Tonal Theory" and numerous articles, is professor of music at Princeton University. He was educated at Harvard and Princeton and has studied compo­sition with Walter Piston and Darius Milhaud. 
at close range, killing Calvosa and his the driver Guiseppe Pagliei, before Pagliei could get his gun out of his holster. 
A third person in the car, Luciano Rossi, was in training as a new bodyguard for Calvosa and was unarmed . He tried to fire but was gunned down, police said. 
The terrorists dragged their wounded fellow into their car, leaving a trail of blood across the road, and then sped away. 
The beige Fiat-later determined t to have been stolen-was found abandoned, its doors open and signal lights on, beside a road a few miles from the ambush scene. 
The body of the slain terrorist was inside the car. but there was no sign of the others, who had apparently switched cars for their getaway. 
Calvosa, married and the father of two Rome University students, was the seventh Italian justice official slain in the past seven years and the third this year alone. 
The Red Brigades have claimed two ofthe killings this year, both of which occurred in Rome. The victims were Ricardo Palma, an official of the prison department of the Justice Ministry who was killed last February and Girolamo Tar­taglione. a ranking ministry offi­cial, who was gunned down last month. 
Nineteen persons have been killed in ambushes claimed by terrorist groups this year. They were all party officials or busi­nessmen. 
Judge Devitt visits campus 

The Honorable Edward J. Devitt, Chief Judge of the United States District Court for the District of Minnesota and Chairman of the Committee on Standards of Admis­sion to Federal Practice of the Federal Judicial Conference, will visit the Notre Dame Law School today and Friday as the Thomas and Alberta White Center's Distin­guished Visitor for the fall semester. 
During his two day visit, Devitt will participate in classes and meet informally with the law faculty and students. Among the topics of discussion will be the proposed advocacy standards for admission 
to  practice  before  the  federal  
courts.  
Devitt will  also give  a  lecture  

today at 3:30 p.m. in the Law School lounge. The entire Univer­sity is invited to attend. 
Toledo University School of Law to hold interviews 
Sign-ups for interviews with the University of Toledo School of Law will take place Monday, November 13, 1978. Students are requested to sign up outside of Room 101 O'Shaughnessy. 

~ .· 
u 
Justice Notes 

A Course on War 
James P. Sterba 

We usuallv don't like to think about war. Wars are ugly; destructive of life. limb and property; and constituting. at best, a necessary evil. Still. wars have alwavs been with us and have molded the course of human history. To see ·this we have only to imagine how different our lives and our country would be ifthere had been no Vietnam War or World War 11. Thus, the question of when. if ever, wars can be religiously. legally or morally justified is of paramount importance for our times as for any 
-----............~------------------------------------. 
~-::::=:=::::=::::::::::::::::: P.0. Box Q ==========
====· 
other. 
In particular, we should ask ourselves what a Christian stance is on the justification of war. Given that the early Christians were by and large pacifists, we should ask if this shows that there are grounds for thinking Christianity actually requires a pacifist rejection of warfare. And what about the legal conventions governing warfare? Do they represent a reasonable constraint on the conduct of war­fare, and can they be realistically enforced? Finally, what about the morality of warfare? Does morality impose the same constraints on killing innocent people in warfare that it imposes on punishing inno­cent people in civil society? If morality does impose such strong constraints on the killing of inno­cent people in warfare, does this mean that the use of nuclear weapons, even their use as a deterrent, can never be morally justified? 
Questions such as the above are taken up in the newly organized inter-disciplinary course, War, Law, Ethics, which is being team­taught this term at Notre Dame. The instructors for the course are Dr. John H. Yoder, professor of theology, Lt. Col. Henry J. Gordon, professor of military science, Dr. Robert E. Rodes, professor of law, and Dr. James P. Sterba, assistant professor of philosophy, with Dr. Basil K. O'Leary, assistant profes­sor of theology, coordinator for the course. 
The course is divided into five parts. In the first part, Professor Yoder examines the historical development of pacifism and the just war theory from early Chris­tianity to the present, focusing on the continual challenge of Christian pacifism to the justification of warfare. In the second part, Professor Sterba considers the grounds for a moral approach to the topic of warfare and then examines the general requirements of a morality of self-defense and the restrictions these requirements of a morality of self-defense and the restrictions these requirements impose on the justification of warfare. In the third and fourth parts of the course. Professors Gordon and Rodes examine the 

various legal conventions that have 
been adopted to govern warfare. 
They evaluate the effectiveness of 
these conventions and discuss the 
need for new conventions. To deal 
with, for example, guerrilla war­
fare and terrorism. In the final part 
of the course, groups of students 
present to the class the results of 
case studies they have done on 
such topics as the status and rights 
of prisoners in the Civil War and 
World War II; terrorism in 
Northern Ireland and against Israel 
and the use of mass destruction 
weapons. One group of students, 
with the help of other students 
from the law school, enacts a war 
crime trial modeled after the Calley 
trial. 
The course grew out of discus­
sions held last year between mem­
bers of the theology department, 
campus mini!!itry, and the military 
science department; but most of 
the preparatory work for the course 
was done by Professor Gordon and 
Rodes this past summer. All in all, 
the course provides a rare oppor­
tunity for students to integrate for 
themselves various opposing per­
spectives on the topic of warfare. 
While the course, which is cross­
listed in theology and philosophy, 
will be offered again in the winter 
term 1979-80, a course similar in 
structure will be offered next term 
on the topic of civil rights. 
Instructors for this course are Dr. 
Donald P. Kommers, professor of 
government and international 
studies and director of the Center 
for Civil Rights, Dr. James B. 
Stewart. · assistant professor of 
economics and director of the Black 
Studies Program, Dr. Yoder, Dr. 
O'Leary, and Dr. Sterba. This 
course is also cross-listed in 
theology and philosophy as well as 
in government and international 
studies. 
The questions discussed in these courses directly concern students and society in general. All stu­dents should take the time to consider these questions whether or not he takes the course. 
James P. Sterba is an Assistant Professor of PhUosopby and a member of the team who teaches the courses discussed. 
S/1?, !TIS A 
A bad _joke 

Dear Editor: 
Your article in The Observer on Nov. 7 about the Fisher Hall resident who suffered a mishap and Security's subsequent response raises some serious questions a­bout the role and quality of security here at Notre Dame. Our prized security force has once again proven beyond a shadow of a doubt that it is nothing more than a collection of incompetents. When called upon to respond to a real emergency, time and again they fail to execute their functions received six or seven calls in the span of ten minutes, yet the dispatcher's job is to relay emer­gency cans to the hospital and not to make judgements as the extent of an injury, especially when a student's health is concerned. One must also question security's ef­fectiveness when the officers can't tell one dorm from another and get lost. 
Our security force has proven that they cannot: provide adequate protection for coeds. prevent van­dalism on campus. prevent arson­ists from destroying university 
*The Obser.ver 
an independent newspaper serving Box Q the notre dame and saint mary's Notre Dame community Ind. 4655& 
The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a ma1ority of tht.> Editorial Board Commentaries, opinions and letters are the views of their authors Column space is availablt> to all members of the community, and the free ('X pression of varvmg opinions on campus, through letters, is encouragpd 
EDITORIAL BOARD Tony Pace Editor-in-Chief St~?ve Odland Managing Editor lohn Calcutt Executive Editor B.1rb Langhenry f. xPcut iVP f:d1tor Rosemary Mills Editorial Editor Ph1l CackiPy Cor' l:.ditor jean Powley St. Mary's Ed1tor Ann Gal~?s Nt>ws Echtor Mike Lt>wis Nt>ws Editor Diane Wilson N~?ws Editor Ray 0'BriP11 Sports Editor Doug Christian Photo Editor 
Mardi Nevin · Production Manager John Tucker 
Business Manager Bob Rudv Advertising Manager 
Thursday, November 9 1978 
WASHINGTON--It was in the Sakowitz Christmas Catalogue un­der the title, '·The Ultimate Gift." Sakowitz is a Houston department store that caters to the VERY rich, and when it comes to thinking up wild Christmas presents, the store obviously is trying to outdo Neiman Marcus, which this year featured a "His and Her Atomic-Proof Vault" in the side of a moutain, where people can store valuables safely from World War III. 
Sakowitz is advertising many wild Christmas presents to play catch-up with Neiman's. But the one that really caught my attention 
6/?EAT ffJIKJR IJJHO 15 71115 OIJR~ MAYBCIFI 
TO MEET 7He STR4N6£ 5TILL TALl< 5/aUHIMMYJFORMEl?. AM-/JTTlE AIKX/TYOIJ LUGER, !E'LL : 8ASsA&rJI?. TO MAN?~ o',c IAJ!TH AIJJE•. GOA/UAY.. 
., 01/R. ca.JNTRY.. 0
\
\ 


• I':' .... • 

efficiently. property, or provide adequate 
In the Fisher incident, security emergency aid for students. What can they do? It appears that the 
only thing that they can do is harass students and ticket and tow away cars on footbaJI weekends. Perhaps security should spend less time playing cops and robbers on their CB's and more time learning the names and locations of dorms. how to answer the phone, and the basic first aid techniques. Who's kidding who, security's a bad joke. 
Jim Modk'79 
Ed Condon '79 

Not so easy 
Dear Editor: 
There seems to be a consensus among Notre Dame students that Geology 101 is a ·pushover course. This may 'have been true in the past. but no longer. Professor James is presently teaching a course that is extremely chal­lenging and ~ far cry from an easy 
''A."' 

This misconception was illus­trated by a cartoon in the Novem­ber 3 issue of the Observer which sparked this letter. The once easy "Rocks for Jox" has been newly transformed into a thorough study of the earth. 
Robert Baclc 

The Observer encourages com­ments from its readers. Letters may be mailed to P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame. ln. 46556; or left at The Observer office on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center. 
All letters submitted for publica­tion must be typed and include the name, address and phone number of the author. The Observer reserves the right to edit all submissions for grammatical errors, length, and libelous state­ments. 
Names cannot be withheld on letters unless sufficient reason is presented for doing so. 
The Ulti~nate Gift 
art buchUJttld; 
was an offer to provide "21 celebrities for your special dinner party. LIKE Walter Cronkite, Neil Armstrong, Sen. Henry Jackson, Uri Geller. Gloria Steinem, George Allen, Arthur Ashe, F. Lee Bailey, Bruce Jenner, Dr. Joyce Brothers, Dr. Milton Friedman, Ruth Gordon Minnesota Fats and Buckinster Fuller," among others. The price listed in the catalogue was $94,125. 
As soon as I received the booklet I called Cronkite and said, "Hey, I didn't know you were renting yourself out for Christmas parties these days." 
The usually unflappable Walter sounded really flapped. "There is nothing funny about it. I'm suing those expletives deleted. I wasn't asked about this, I didn't give my permission, and as far as I can find out neither did anybody else who's listed in the catalogue. The whole thing is outrageous." 
"What did Sakowitz say?" wanted to know. "They said, legally, they're pro­tected because the copy for the dinner party has the word LIKE in it. They said they wern 't promising me, but someone LIKE me." 
"But there's only ONE Walter Cronkite," I said. 
"You may take it lightly," Walter said bitterly, "but CBS is not, and we intend · to make Sakowitz desist from pulling this kind of stunt again." 
"Well, I'm glad I called you first," I told him, "because I was just about to send in my check for $94,125 so my wife could have a Christmas party with real live ('elebrities for a change." 
After I finished talking to Walter I got to thinking about whar would have happened if I had sent in my $94,125, and had invited all out neighbors over for a Christmas party to meet this covey of over­achievers. 
This i~ what I envision might have '·.lPI1ened: The aoorbell rings. There is a 
. . .. 

man with sandy hair and a mu­
stache standing there. 
"Hi there. Is this where the 
party is?" 
"Who are you?" 
''I'm LIKE Walter Cronkite." 
"You mean Walter isn't coming 
to my party?" 
"If you read your catalogue 
carefully. Sakowitz did not promise 
you Walter Cronkite but only 
somebody LIKE him." 
"Why arc you LIKE Walter 
Cronkite?" 
"Because I'm an excellent sailor, 
a 'C' tennis player, a well-dressed 
man, and I anchor the evening 
news in Waco, Texas. Your J.~ucsts 
will really flip out when I say, 'And 
that's the way it is." 
Just then a woman arrives. She 
has long. brownish hair and smol­
dering eyes. 
"And pray tell," I say, "who arc 
you?" 

''I'm LIKE Gloria Steinem. and 
if you light my cigarette I'll kno<.:k 
your teeth out." 
"You're not the real Gloria, 
then?" 

"That's a terribly sexist thing to 
say. You wouldn't ask that 
question of a man." 
Another chap comes up and joins 
us. "Is this the Sakowitz Gift 
Party?'' 
• "Who are you?" ''I'm LIKE Neil Armstrong." "Then you're not the fellow who 
got to the moon first?" 
"I'm a glider pilot from Gal­
veston, and I've taken one small 
step for man." 
I get angry and decide to take the 
21 ''celebrities" down to Sakowitz 
to get my $94,125 back. 
The lady behind the Christmas exchange counter says, "We •re sorry, but there are no cash refunds on people LIKE Arthur Ashe, F. Lee Bailey, Joyce Brothers, Min­nesota Fats or Ruth Gordon. Once they leave the store they're all considered used merchandise." 







Football weeks bring the alumni back to their "other" alma mater. 
In 1914, a salesman convinced th 10 acres of land that were located ( good-sized house on the property, years, right in the iniddle of the h Dame. After the house was sold b purposes, among them a faculty eli the past 11 years, the humble hous Dame Alumni -Senior Club,'' betl 
Students from Saint Mary's and l "going out to the bars," but Senio phrase because it is unique. It occasionally, but it becomes a h4 friends and relax. It is special in th run by seniors. This year, Mana Jordan and Ron Zoromski, have c tradition. Many improvements hav in the basement equipped with th and a bar; the dance floor on the se( lights and a disc jockey; and the nc: hamburgers, hotdogs, and grilled expanded. "This is a year of inoo 
Open regularly Wednesdays tht1 a.m., the bar offers many beverage cheapest around. The Senior Bar i service while making a necessary p rent the facilities on Mondays and l smokers, and exercising its option sponsors and holds events, like the and a pool tournament. The Senio1 Dame that will continue over the y These photos more than illustrate\ 

i 
1 
~ 
' 
.. 

• 
Good friends often sway in and out of the Club . 
.. 
., 

Besides the mirrored ceiling and lighted dance floor, the new dancing .. room includes a not-too-shabby disc jockey. 
• .. 
• • 

Hello there'"! 
• 
.. 


,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,, ,,,,,,,,,,,,,, 
• 




()( ()()( 
· University of Notre Dame to sell him 1 the University grounds. He built a nd his family lived there for about 10 stle-bustle that was and still is Notre ck to the University, it served various b and a residence for monks. But for ~has been the location of "The Notre ~r known as • 'The Senior Bar.'' otre Dame often use the expresson of Bar is not included with this catch-all serves the alumni when they visit me ground for seniors to meet their : respect that it is for the seniors and :er Mike Schlageter, along with Pat 1rected the bar's continuance of this : resulted such as the new game room Even accounting firm representatives enjoy the atmospher.e. ee pinball machines, one pool table, >nd level, complete with synchronized v food service, which presently offers :heese sandwiches and which will be ation, '' Schlageter beams. ugh Saturdays from 9:00p.m.. 2:00 . Its 12-oz. 40 cent draft beers are the SUClceeding in offering the students a otit. Along with permitting groups to 1esdays for special gatherings such as > open one Sunday a month, the Club ;emi-formal, a country-western night, Bar is an exciting tradition at Notre ars. hat a good time the Senior Bar offers. 

The Scni(lf Bar offers much opportunity for male-female social interaction . 
• 



• 
• 


• 
.. 
-
.. 
,, 
• 
Disco! 
• 

These diligent workers deserve this break, complete with ~e non-alcoholic beverage • 
• 
,,,,,,,,,, 




I 
, 
I 
~ 


~-------------------------------------------------~------....................................................... 
Kampiles admits sale of documents to Russia 
HAMMOND, lad. [AP)-A former CIA watch officer, now charged with espionage, admitted to federal authorities that he sold the Soviets top-secret documents, an FBI agent testified yesterday. 
Special Agent James K. Murpny a key prosecution witness, said he interrogated William Kampiles, a 23-year-old Chicago man charged with six counts of espionage, only days before he was arrested in Munster August 17. 
When Assistant U.S. Attorney James Richmond asked Murphy whether Kampiles realized that he had given away important U.S. defense information. Murphy re­plied that Kampiles told him he knew it was a security breach. 
''But I didn't think it would put the .Russians ahead by leaps and bounds," Murphy said Kampiles told him. 
Kampiles, a former CIA watch officer, is accused of selling the Soviets a technical manual on the KH-11 space satellite, which has been used for several years to monitor Soviet troop movements in military installations. 
If convicted, he could receive a maximum sentence of 70 years in prison for each count. 
In earlier testimony Wednesday, Vivian Psachos, a researcher in the CIA's Societ division, said Kampiles was told by a Soviet agent in Greece to furnish informa­tion on missile sites, CIA agents abroad, and a "shopping list," of other available documents. 
Mrs. Psacbos was the second government witness in the trial of 23-year-old William Kampiles, a former CIA watch officer. 
He is accused of selling to the Russins for $3,000 a manual with plans on the KH-11, a sop~isti­cated space satellite used to monitor troop movements and mis­sile installations in the Soviet Union. 
Kampiles, a native of Chicago, was arrested Aug. 17 in an apart­ment in nearby Munster and charged with six counts of es­pionage. 
If convicted, he could receive a maximum sentence of 70 years in prison for each count. Mrs. Psachos testified that she inter­viewed Kampiles with another CIA agent and two FBI officials in a Washington, D.C. hotel, shortly before his arrest. 

She said Kampiles told the government officers that he never mentioned the KH-11 to the Russia agent he met at a party at the Soviet embassy in Athens last winter. 
"Bill Kampiles realized he was a Soviet agent and he decided to play a game," Mrs. Psachos, a 21-year veteran of the CIA, said the defendant had told her. 
She testified that Kampiles met the Russian on three occasions while vacationing in Greece in February and March, and told him he could furnish secret CIA docu­ments. 
Mrs. Psachos said Kampiles told the government interviewers that he lied to the Russian, saying he had worked as an economic analyst for the CIA for two years, that he was 25 or 26 year old, and that he was born and raised in Boston 
She said that to prove that he was not a double agent of "plant," KampiJes gave the Russian, identi­fied as Michael Zavalis, a forged identity card from the CIA. 
But according to Mrs. Psachos, Kampiles told the U.S. officials who interviewed him in Washington, that the ID card was all he gave the Russian. getting contacts with the Russians 

The prosecution's first witness, a and providing them with "dis-in­former friend of Kampiles, CIA formation." agent George J oannides testified 
During the government inter­Tuesday that Kampiles told him in 
rogation of Kampiles in
the spring of 1977 that he wanted to Washington,FBI agent Don Stukey work in the covert section of the told Kampiles he didn't believe his CIA. Joannides said he told story, Mrs. Psachos testified. 
Kampiles he would need additional training and could not be con­She said that Stukey told sidered for such a post until Kampiles that during his 10 years mid-1978. in dealing with the Soviet, they had 
Joannides testified that never paid $3,000 "without getting Kampiles said he did not want to some significant information.'' wait that) long and told him the But, according to Mrs. Psachos, 
following year he was trying to Kampiles did not change any part establish himself as a good candi­of his story when asked by Stukey if date for an undercover CIA post by he wanted to do so. 
Committee narrows Senior Fellow list 
by Rick Travers from student nomination. The list of candidates includes: Allan Aida, Muhammed Ali,
The Senior FelJow Committee Woody Allen, John Belushi, Arthas narrowed the list of candidates Buchwald, Dick Cavett, Bitt Cosby, for this year's Senior Fellow to 25 Phil Donahue, Richard Dreyfuss,from the nearly 200 names received 
Joseph Evans, Katherine Graham, Katherine Hepburn, 
Dustin Hoffman, Bob Hope, Barbara Jordan, Malcolm Muggeridge, Joe Paterno, Dan Rather, Wilma Rudolf, Charles Schultz, Don Shula, Pete Seegar, Alexander Solzhenitsyn, Carl Sagan and John Wayne. 
The committee based its de­cisions on four criteria that the candidates must exemplify. They should 1) demonstrate personal qualities of unselfishness and feJ­lowship, 2) have made a significant contribution to society, 3) be out­standing in their particular voca­tion and 4) typify the spirit of the class of '79. 
A forum will be held Thursday evening from 7 to 9 p.m. in the LaFortune lobby so that seniors who strongly support persons not on the list may suggest those names to the committee. 
Another election will be held the last week in November to deter­mine the top five names. From these five names, the Senior Fellow Committee will make the final choice, keeping as close as possible to the election results. 
However, the major factor deter­mining this year's Senior Fellow is which of the top five candidates will be willing to come to Notre Dame during Senior Week. Richard Lugar, last year's Senior Fellow, was voted 18th among the 25 final candidates, but was one of the few able to attend. The committee hopes to avoid this problem this year by organizing the program and contacting desired candidates 
-early enough to insure their avail­ability. "We don't want this to be a popularity contest,'' Tom Meilenhausen of the Senior Fellow Committee stressed, adding, "I want to strongly encourage seniors to vote according to the four criteria as best they see them, and we should have an outstanding Senior Fellow.'' 
Captain Beef heart to appear 

Captain Beefheart and tbe Magic Band will appear tonight at Vege­table Buddies at 9 p.m. 
This appearance is part of a major national tour in support of Captain Beefheart's new alhum. The tour will take Beefheart and the Magic Band to The Roxy in Lost Angeles, San Francisco's Old Waldorf, New York's Bottom Line, and The Paradise in Boston in addition to their South Bend appearance. 
Vegetable Buddies is located at 129 North Michigan St. in South BenJ. 

St. Mary's widens Spring course list 
by Jean Powley Saint Mary's Editor 

Saint Mary's is offering quite a few new courses this semester in an effort to widen the range of available electives. The following is a list of the new courses according to department: 
Sociology 
American Minorities Dr. 
McKelvey --9TT11 
This course will explore the relations between the dominant white majority in the United States and the various minority groups, such as Afro-Americans, Mexican­Americans and American Indians. The perspective developed in the course takes the view that Ameri­can majority-minority relations could be described as essentially colonial in nature. These relations have been shaped by and are an element in the modern internation­al phenomenon of Western colonial and commercial expansion and industrial and technological de­velopment. 
Philosophy Contempol'811' Theories of Human Nature 
In this course various contem­porary theories of human nature will be considered: Sigmund Freud, Karl Marx. B.F. Skinner, the existentialists and Aristotle. In considering these theories the student will become acquainted with how philosophy is done, what kinds of consideration are philo­sophically relevant, and which arguments are both sound and persuasive. Business Ethics 
The purpose of this course is three-fold: 1 ( To introduce the student to general ethical theory and the nature of moral reflection. 2( To develop skills for recognizing the moral issues which normally arise in the context of business­individual and corporate responsibility; self-interest versus social responsibility; justice; hiring practices; whistle-blowing; duties to the natural environment. 3( To aid the sstudent in applying sound moral judgement to the very diffi­cult issues faced in the business world. Philosophy of Religion 
Among the questions tha have interested believers and unbeliev­ers alike are those concerning the reasonableness of belief in the existence of God, the problem of evil, whether there is life after life, the nature of religious experience, and the relation between religious belief and values. This course will consider these q uesteons. Theories of Mind 
This course will examine what is 
consciousness, metaphysical 
status, how mind and body are 
related, etc. Students will read 
both historical and contemporary 
philosophers on the question of the 
mind. 
Music 
The Musical Idea 
A seminar-style opportunity to 
talk and think about music in a 
non-technical manner. Open to all 
students with some understanding 
of musical style. Specific master­
pieces will be discussed from 
varied viewpoints: the critic, the 
informed listener, the commenta­
tor. There will also be a "field 
trip'' to a major symphony concert. 
Religious Studies Religion and Values: The Urban Plunge The Bible and the Arts 
An in-depth analysis of four to six themes selected from the Bible. It will explore the uses of these themes in literature, music and the visual arts. Theology and the Hispanic Theater 
A study of the Hispanic theater and its contribution toward the appreciation of the human situa­tion. Emphasis placed on religious thought and sensibilities as a means of understanding Hispanic societies and cultures. Chrlsdan Marriage and Family 
In today's world, how can mar­riage and family life be understood and lived in a genuinely Christian way? An intensive study of the theology of marriage. Special attention to changing roles within the family and the relation of the Christian family to the broader community. Interview with profes­sor required for admission. 
History 
The Far East I 
This is an introductory seminar­style course designed to expose students who have had no back­ground in non-Western cultures to the beauty and majesty of the Far Eastern civilizations of China and Japan. The Middle East 
his course will attempt to come to grips with the complex past and present of this region. Without a knowledge of this area's long history, it is impossible to under­stand its modern development, conflicts, problems and inter­national relationships. 
lathematics Linear Algebra 
This course involves linear equations, matrices and vector spaces. It is designed for students who are not math majors but who wish to see more deeply into what 

mathematics  is  and how  it  is  
applied.  
Modem Geometr ies  
Students  will  look  at  non­ 

Euclidean geometries, projective geometry and transformational geometry. The course is designed to provide students with a broader view of geometry than high school plane geometry gives. 

Ct,.uputer Science Computer Programming with Business Applications 
Using COBOL, emphasis will be placed on development of good top down programming style and the debugging and testing of large programs. The programs will inv'olve use of string processing, searching, sorting and data structures. Compiler Development 
This course is designed to introduce the formal study of programming language spec-ifica­tion and organization. It includes a study of grammars, data types, and structures, control structures, run­
time considerations, interpreters, lexical analysis and parsing. Students working in groups in will write a lexical analyzer and parser for an idealized language. 
English 
Fairy Tales, Romance and Novel 
This course will consider the 

relationships among genres folk/ 
fairy tale, romance, and novel. 
Students will read from Grimm, 
Perrault and Jacobs, to name a 
few. 
Development of the English Novel 
II 
The course will concentrate on 

contempory British fiction. 
Students will read representative 
novels written since the end of 
World War II. 
Woman as Writer 
This course will concentrate on 

literature by women, woman as 
writer. Readings will begin with an 
authology which presents woman 
in the process of writing -· her 
difficulties, her aspirations, and 
her search for self-identification .and self-determinations as a writer. .Shakespeare II 
This course is designed for students who want to read more Shakespeare than is possible in Shakespeare I. The Teaching of Writing 
The course will teach techniques of teaching writing to beginning readers and consider the effective­ness of reinforcing the closely related skils of reading and writing by emphasizing both of them in the initial learning stages. Writing Short Fiction 
An advanced seminar/workshop in the writing of short fiction. Students will be expected to pro­duce between 30 and 40 pages of fiction over the course of the semester. Poetry Writing 
This course will focus on both tradition and experiment. Students will work with & wide variety of raw material and of forms. 
Students audition tor one-act plays 
Auditions for five one-act plays will take place today at 6:30 
p.m. in Washington Hall. The playf. will be directed by studen~ enrotled in the Directing I class in the Speech and Drama Depart­ment. All ND-SMC students are encouraged to audition. No advance preparation is necessary. These productions are done exclu­sively by students, and help is needed in all areas of production (acting, technical, costume and make-up). Students who wish to audition but are unable to attend today should call 284-4595. 
r------------­
:  wyqant  
I  ~lORal Co. Inc.  
I  
: I I  ~tOW€RS-(jl~tS compl€t€ WIR€ S€RVIC€  

t327 lincoln way W€St 
I phone 232-3354 





Mon., Wed., & Thurs. Michlana's newest disco se·rving 0 lympia beer on tap Special price Pitcher Beer Night DISCO dancing nightly, except Tues. 
come on down and party V2 mile north of Shula's 
BEST DEAL GOIN' on finest quality 

for so copies 
¥-on our best Notre Dame-watermarked 25% Rag Content bond (other styles available)Jf same-clay or I-clay service II you type It clean and black (not 1rey) on white non-c:orra•able paper. IBM·TYPE MYLAR RIBBONS BEST¥ a service ol your Student Union and 
campus press 
Ba•ement, LaFortune. Open I-5, 5 days. Call 7047 
' 
I 
) { I 
j 
I 
' 
( 
t 
i 
i 
,I 
r 
I 
I 
' 
I I 
r
, 
! 

1 
; 
) 
; 
! ' I 
J 
) 
1 
f 
I 
1 
1 
J 
l 
( J 
j 
I 
~ 
~ 
i 
~ 
t 
l 
1 
l 
1 
i 
I 
~ 
( 
I 
I 

Thursday,,November 9, 1978 


!JL cMaaclocw 
.:R~.n.9 '& a CHa~.n.g '& 
9ln& Couunu ~wdrty a §i.{f& 100 &nt&'t ~~W"'"' ffnd.ianA 4~ 
10% off with student 10 

1':;;;;;;;;;;;;;;:;;.;:;::;~~;:~;:;:;,;:;:::;:::=;~~~~;;;!, attorney who before his death in
.1! 1967 made major contributions to 
I I I I I I I 
I 
I Hair Concepts 
I I 
I 'Hair designs for Men & Women,
I 
I 
I with the emphasis on Easy Care'
I I 
I I open late tues.-thurs. 8pm
I 
I I North Y2 mile east of notre dame 
I 
I 18381 Edison at lnd 23
I 
I 
~272-7222
I I 
2041 E. Ireland at IronwoodII south 
I 291-1001
I 
Notre Dame Student Union and the Student Players present: 
1f\ 

d &.I 412 \ • , 
\~ \ P 
Goo

, t e ~ 
_ \ • • , , 

~ 0 U • t:l'fl0 1f\ '
'( fl\\8 p \ 
cna~ 

Nov. 9, 10, 11 at 8:00 pm. Nov. 12 at 2 pm. 
Washington Hall Admission: s1oo 
Hesburgh to receive Clark Award 
Fr. Theodore M. Hesburgh, president of Notre Dame, is among three persons receiving Grenville Clark Awards for distinguished public service by a private citizen. 
The awards honor a New York 
civil liberties, academic freedom, 

1 human rights, world peace, and 
1 good government. 
I The $15,000 prize, dispensed by 
I, a fund at Dartmouth College, was 
1 shared this year by Hesburgh, Jack Greenberg, and Sydney Kentridge. Hesburgh has announced that his share will endow a Grenville Clark award at Notre Dame to be given annually to a member of the University community--student, faculty member or administrator-­, 'whose voluntary activities serve to advance the causes of peace and I human rights. 
1 
The Clark Award is similar to the Reinhold Niebuhr Award set up in 1972 by Hesburgh with an award honorarium given him by friends of the internationally known theologian. The Niebuhr Award is given annually to a member of the Notre Dame community for work on behalf of social justice. 
MANILA Philippines [AP]-An' oil tanker exploded in flames and sank in Manila Bay just after it had 

, unloaded a shipment of crude oil yesterday. The Ph\lippine coast guard repC?rt<:d at least 33 persons 
dead or mtssmg.
Cmdr. Simeon Balitas, coast guard operations officer, said 57 persons were reported aboard the Hong Kong-based ship and 26 


IV£ GOT EHIL THIS THERE JSNO CIW/C£ I2L GET PIMPED. I Y.IJOI,J ALL ABOUT PI BONDS, SP2 HYBRIDIZED ORB11i1L5,.. 


survivors had been found. 
Newspaper reports said the casualties were Indonesian and Hong Kong Chinese crew mem­bers, and Filipino security guards-. One newpaper reported from the scene that the· two survivors had died at hospitals. Balitas said some Filipinos who loiter in outrigger canoes near ships at ancor also may have perished. 
collegiate crossword 

ACROSS 42 ~It's '" 12 Makes driving 
43 Stuck in mud dangerous Roller-coaster ride 44 Tease 14 Original inhab­sound 45 Part of NNP itants 7 Fundamentals 46 Wrestiing holds 15 Chum 
13 Feeling of failure 47 Pertaining to birth 20 Juvenile delinquent 
15 Hogan's rank 4 9 Hydrogen. for one 
16 Resort or car 51 Testimonial 
17 Straighten again 53 Vehement speeches 
18 Wrong 54 Obtains 19 Old-English letter 55 Proceed in a 
21 Lao--gliding manner 
22 State -56 Hate 
23 Well-known club 

24 Public disturbance DOWN 
25 Before 

26 "Stompin' at the Predicament " 2-Imaginary monster 
27 Bartletts 3 Gorges 28 Was ambitious 4 Sponsorship (var.)30 Gives out cards 5 Greek Mars 31 Breakfast dish 6 ~Bei -Bist Du 32 Baseball hall-of-Schoen~ farner, ----Frick 7 Dutch Africans 33 Treeless plain 8 Rob Petrie's boss 35 Revives (2 wds.) 9 Mr. Hurok 38 Part of MTM 10 Sign very 39 Openings quickly 40 World War II agency 11 Bleeps 
23 ~Key -" 24 S"udies 26 Actress -Hasso 27 Fathers. in France 29 Arctic explorer30 Like St. Peter's 32 Wooded areas 33 Flowering plant 34 Pillagers35 Irish city 36 Severe pain37 Pain relievers 38 Valuable French 
paintings39 Ancient Britishers 41 Most competent 43 Bank inventory 46 Mother of Clytem­
nestra 47 French resort 48 Touch on 50 --jongg 52 Famous Barber 
.... 
.., ........ ··•·• 

... STRUCTURAL FbRMULAS,. VAL.Ei\ICE ELECTRONS AND POJ..ItR COVALeNT BOAIDS. 

NOTHING,NOTHIN& 
CAN STOP ME TODAY!/ 
~@?--~~~
~0 
0 



''The explQsion was deafening , and it thundered through Limay,'' said Rene D. Herrera, safety and fjre .Protection supervisor at the refinmg company. "Black smoke rose ahout 1,000 feet above the ship immediately after the exi?lo­sion." Pockets of fire from burnmgoil were seen in the water near the ship, he said. 
The e~plosion, which reportedly split the hull of the Feoso Sun in two, occurred off Limay, an indus­trial complex on the Bataan penin­sula 30 miles west of Manila on the western shore of Manila Bay. The tanker was registered in Panama. 
The i ship's bow protruded from the water where it sank, about 
1.000 yards offshore. 
Frogmen were trying to pene­trate the sunken stern of the 20,824 deadweight-ton ship, Balitas said. 'jMost of the missing were believed trapped in the stern. 
Balitas said officials of the Bataan Refinery Corp., which had taken off the cargo of 19, 564 metric' tons of Chinese crude oil before the explosion, reported the Feoso Sun had returned to its anchorage and was being surveyed by damage specialists wnen the blast occurrea. 
He said the tanker had been damaged on a previous port call, but he did not know where. 
Balitas said the ship's captain, Ng Wing Sum of Hong Kong, was reported ashore at the time of the blast trying to contact the ship's owners, Feoso Sun Tankers, S.A. to get clearance for drydocking the damaged vessel. 
"We are conducting an investi­gation into the cause," Balitas said. "It was empty, and there were fumes, and there probably were sparks from some source that set it off.'' 
Answers to yesterdays puzzle 




Thursday, November 9, 1978 
the observer 11 
r--------------i-s;,;,--.;1-;;;.;-s:m;-i;:.-;.;;.;-1-N:;G;~:. ~x~ c-;ilj"i; 12a4;;-r Patsy, NOTICES ttx. You don't think I'll pay big bucks? I 277-1113 I I understand you get into Hot Wax... Wrong. I'll pay big bucks. Call Jayne O'B I 1 Pretty Kinky. . ... netters
N.D. Legal Services at 7889 I Need 5 Tenn. GA tix. Call Jerry 8446 1 Scoop
Call 283-7795 10 a.m.-4 p.m. -----------(continued from page 12] Need one student Tenn Ticket. Calf 3848 1 Do you have 2 student or GA tix for Margie,
1 129 assists. He'll probably rpove
Attention All Logan Volunteers and after 10 p.m. Tenn? call Kathy 41 -5t32 Sorry if I got on your nerves Tuesday
Interested Students: I1 I1 into more of a shooting guard role
night. Hang in there. Volunteers are needed to.help take Notre Will trade 1 Tenn. Ticket (student) for 1 Need Ride to St. Louis area and back for I Scoop this year, with Wilcox working out Dame's biggest fans to the Tennessee Russian B-Balt (GA or Student). Call Thanksgiving break, will share driving of the point positions. game! Time -10:30 a.-5:00 p. We will Lance 1027 I 1 expenses, call Lou 1402 OK, Mardi, Bill Hanzlik, a 6-7 junior, and 6-2
1 

start the day with a picnic-pep rally and Since you're tired of seeing my name freshman Mike Mitchell will pres­
then head over to the game. For more Need Tenn. Tix. Will Pay Mega Bucks. 1 Need 2 GA and 3 Student for Tenn. Call all over the personal page, I am now sure Branning and Wilcox for the info call Mike 1371 or Sue 4832. Dave 1185 I Vince 3462 releasing this list of alternate signatures. 
guard spots. Hanzlik, with the size 
Feel free to use any of them to sign my 
to play either guard or forward, has
Gay Students of Notre Dame/St.Mary's 1 need 1 GA ticket for the Tenn. Game I -N-ee_d_4_G_A_T-ix-fo-r-Te_n_n_.ca-II-G-er_ry_345_1 personals with: TS, Sunday-night-head­
come up with a number of standout 
Gay Information call 8870 and 1 ticket for the Russian Basketball I compugraphic-specialist-antagonizer, SS, 
defensive efforts in the backcourt.
Friday November 10 10:00 p.m.-12:00 Game. Please Cali Jeff at 1000 1 I need Tenn tickets. Calf 1623 Common peon, One of the masses, 
a.m. 1 Mitchell, the Northern California
(personally I think the m is unnecessary, Saturday November 11 10:00 p.m.-12:00 VERY DESPERATE: Will pay super I Need GA Basketball tickets to NO-USSR just a little note from me), Obnoxious player of the year last winter, 
a.m. mucho $$$for 1 Tenn. Ticket. 256-2663 Game. cau. 8432 manic depressant, Observer masochist, averaged 31.8 points per game at 
or write P.O. Box 206, Notre Dame, IN. I 
or Tim. Capuchino High School in San Need 3 GA Tenn tix. Call Jim 1147 I DESPERATELY NEEDED: 4 Tenn. GA Scoop Bruno, CA, and is the only
Attention Notre Dama/St. Mary's Com­
1 tix. Name Your Price! 212·2160 scholarship freshman brought in by
munity: 
Need 2 GA tix to Tenn.$$. Call Phil 8732 I Dear Timmy,
Tennessee tickets needed to help take Phelps and his staff.
Help family reunion. Need 2 Tennessee As a typist on the Observer staff I 
mentally handicapped and disadvantaged respect Mardi Nevin very much. She Three walkons also will provide
Need 2 GA tickets For Tenn. Good$ Call GA tickets. call1514children and adults to a football game. Nina 4084 (SMC) possesses poise, kindness, sincerity, and depth in the backcourt-6-1 junior
Help give someone the thrill of alifetime! Desparately need 2 Ga or student lix to also diplomacy. I however do not have Tim Healy, 6-0 sophomore KevinTickets will be collected at dinner in the Need 2 tix tor Tenn. Call Betsy 41-5704 Tenn. call Eric 1384 these fine qualities. So instead of letting Hawkins and 5-10 freshman Marc
dining halls and in the dorms. Off her tell you let me do it. 
Kelly.

campus students may drop off tickets at 
Desperately Need four GA Tix to Tenn. Desperately need 2 Tenn. tix. Call Ron NO MORE PERSONALSII!IIIIIIIII!II
Student Activities. "We've been pleased with the
Call Mary 6850 3388 I hope I've made my point quite clear.. 
progress we've made in practice so
me

Experienced typist will do typing in own far," claims Phelps. "Having so
WANTED: 2or 4Ga Tickets for any home Need 12 Tenn. tix. Last chance to P.S. I might make mistakes but don'thome. Call 272-1401. football game. Call Mike 7838 entertain family here. Graduating senior. ever tell me I'm wrong. many of the same people back 
Call Ray 289-8657 helps because everyong knows 
Planning awedding or dance? Music for 
Need 6 GA Tenn. call Pete 1787 The adventures of a boring person has each other fmm the start. Every­
that special occasion. The Dennis 
Need 2 or 4 Tenn ·tix call Tim 8821 been cancelled due to lack of space in the one ·tells us how good we're
Bamber Quartet. 272-8266 
Help! Desperately need 4 GA TENN. Classifieds supposed to be this year, so I guessTIX. call 4-4952 after 3 p.m. Desparately need 4 GA tickets for Tenn. Sorry Scoop or Timmy or whatever! the Soviet game will be one way to
Will do bachelor laundry, very reasonable Call Jeff 1479 
find out.''
and close to campus. Call from 9 a.m. to 
Desperately need one or two Notre Dame Mandatory meeting for all advertising
5 p.m. 234-7528. 
season basketball tix. Call 4-1-4487 Need 4 Ga Southern Cal tix. Call John at layout peor.le on Tuesday Nov. 14th. 1991 
Short meet ng starting at 7 p.m. L-------------­Full and part time WAITRESSES needed
FOR RENT at NICOLA's Italian Restaurant. Nica. Help me get home, need ride to Florida ATTENTION SPAM LOVERS!: atmosphere, close to campus, good tips. [almost anywhere] can leave Nov. 17 The ~uys in the trees have resumed their2 BR House , Stove and Ref, $225 Month 

Apply In person between 4:30 and [could go to Georgia Tech!] call Ken 1194 activities on the main quad. Watch for
plus utilities and deposit. 914 N. Notre 
midnight Tuesday through Sunday at 809 them at 6:30 on school nights.
Dame Ave. 234-7670. I
N. Michigan. Experience necessary. Need 2 Ga Tennessee tlx. Call Bid, Bud, Bruce or Bod at 41-4276House for rent, 79 Spring Semester, 2-3 
Whats money? I need 3 GA tlx for Tenn. HAPPY BIRTHDAY CATHY! May it be
bedrooms, located 18401 Eugene St. Near 
Call Nick 3338 Need 2 GA Tenn tickets. Call Val your best and brightest! Love,
campus $290 month plus utilities. Call 
277-3076 after 5 p.m. or 1234 during the Maria, Margie, Lisa and Dusty
8367. 
Need GA tickets for Tennessee. Call Ruth day.7136 afternoons or 272-3513 evenings Come find out from the People who have
LOST AND FOUND 

Need 3 GA or Student tix for Tenn game. been there. College Career Days '78; 12-9 Desparately need Tenn student tix. Call Call Laura 277-3076Lost: A gold 1976 Cave Spring High Mike 4611 College Career Days '78
School Class Ring. Blue Sapphire Stone ~--------------·J
Wanted: Steve Martin tix, preferably 12-9
with gold inlaid C.S. Name on inside of Need 3 GA tix for Tenn. Call Eric 1766 good seats -call 3089 1 Joe, Disco, Jimmy, Ca9e. and the Load, band. Reward. Call Dan at 1864. anytime Paddle fishers who have ordered T-Shirts I We took a "road trip' with a bunch of 
guys,

OVERSEAS JOBS -Summer/full time. and have not picked them up may do so
Lost: Black Totes umbrella. South Cafe­Need 2GA or Student Tenn tix. Call John Europe, S. America, Australia, Asia etc. now. Either call Mike or Brian at 1150 or I We wanted to clarify some of their lies. teria Monday afternoon. Call Jim at 1627. 1785 All fields, $500-1200 monthly, expenses stop by 265 Alumni. l Two snow tires on the left just can't go straight
paid, sightseeing. Free info. -Write;
Lost: Small Brown shoulder purse at St. TennGA tix: hey y'all! Need 4 or more­Internationat Job Center, Box 4490-14, Scoop Sullivan personals have been It's not our fault we saw Kent State. Louis Street parties or Corby's on $$-7607 berkely_. CA 94704 cancelled We needed gas, you let it pass, Halloween night. Contains Janet Dillon And exit nine was the end of the line. 
I. D.'s. Please call Irene at 6733. Esperateiy need many GA Tenn. tix. call Need 2 Tenn tix, Joe 8200 Meeting: tonite-in back of St. Joseph's You nicely stopped, but then you flopped,1-----------------------Mike 1146 Lake of Addict (Attack Disco Dogs~ Leaded gas, and then the cop. 
Found: one man's watch found on Oct 31. I Must have 2GA Tenn tix-big bucks. Don Infiltrate Communist Tubs) Group. The laughs were many and the breaks Call John at 7771 to claim. Playscapes, creative play center at Scotts­3132 Topics: How to end Disco adds in thP. were bad, 
But what a good time we really had.
dale Mall, now hiring parttime male and Wall Street Journal. Be there or be Red! 
Lost: SMC Class Ring initials MEB 80'. If female students. Must enjoy children. Need one student ticket for Tenn. game. So when It's "road trip" time again, found, Please call Marilyn 4-1-4088. And you feel like you need some friends,
Flexible hours. Apply Nov. 11 12-6 p.m. Will pay mucho bucks. Call Lenny Peggy McDaniel's Birthday is Friday call 
at Playscapes behind Rathskeller on 272-5201 -41-5236 and wish her ahappy one The toast we made still holds true, 
Lost: Outside Lyons Arch -Gold Heart second level. We'll always be your "road trip" crew. shaped ring with initials SM. Sentimental Need: Ride to Buffalo, N.Y. area for If you're lost and lonely come to College Thanks! value. Call Shaun 7965, Please! Need tix for Tenn. and U.S.C. $$ Turkey-Day break. Call Sue 4-5411 Career Days '78 Love­
within reason. Mick 1763 The Flannerettes, Teresa, Elaine, Sheila,
12-9 

Lost: Pair of brown plastic fram glasses in Wanted: GA tix for Tenn. game. Call Denise and Cathy. soft leather case. Call Time 232-Q550. Need Tenn. GA Tix. Call Jerry 3795 Janet 4-4796 Need an apartment decorated in black Dear ND8081,
and blue. Ted 1319
Found: Room Key at Friday night Blues Need 4GA tix. for Tenn. Call Jack 1775or FOR SALE Don't you KNOW who we are? Festival. Call 2126 and identify. 1850 Love,
The presence of one Patty Meagher is Gulls In the Uttle Red Duster
Two Row 9, section 8 lower arena Steve requested at a private concert to be heldLost: Pair of Rust Clogs by N.D. Ave. HELP ME PLEASE Martin tickets for sale. Call 3488 outside her balcony at Holy Cross thisCemetery Saturday night Need 4-10 GA Tenn. Tix. Call Phil 8504 Thursday night at 10:30-Are you tall, dark and handsome? 
Please call SMC -4648 Are you one of society's elite?
For Sale: 2 GA Season B-Ball tickets for The crazy Italian Parttime people nneded to sell ads out of best offer. Call 1159 P.S. Put a candle in your window If so, please submit your qualifications
WANTED regional offices of nationwide publishing for the most distinguished position to be firm. Entry leve position. Call Mr. Ford· XMAS AHEAD Humorists Anonymous is still open to the escort of Miss Anne Marie Talluto at 

Wanted: Tape of the Ralph Nader Lecture her Debutant Ball. Send honorable
272-3171 Sansui Receiver, $300 ND-SMC Community. We want you if
call Greg at 1731. qpplications to 308 Lyons.
Kenwood table, $80 you are an assasin, brooding bigot,Desperately need four tenn. tix call Larry Genesis Speakers, $250 petulant prima donna or a damn good
Need 4 GA Tennessee Tix. Call Mike 
289-6169 Best off will be accepted satirist. Call Genghis Khan at 3748 for an Erin-0,
3003, Sandy 41-5271. you admirer of Body, mind, and soul
Call Mike 288-3095 irresistably enlightening conversation 
Need 3 GA tix for Tenn. Call Beth 41-4148 says hi' 
Alumnus Dad visits weekend of Tennes­Wathc over your shoulder or I'll thai
Casperson's Book Shop open Wed., Sat., Tix and Maps for Ill Sr. Suicide Stomp,
see game. Must see his Irish play. Need Need one GA Ticket to USSR Basketball Sun 9-7. 50,000 used books. A general Friday, 2:00 pm are available at THE you up and take you home for a59 course 
1ticket. Please help-if not for the sake of 
Game. Call Paul at 8505 shop. 1303 Buchanan Road, Niles, 683-CORE 288-6449 meal 
the gipper and dear ol' day -do it for the The "lone stoney"
2888.
top $! Call Lolli -289-4514 
Need one Student or GA ticket for Tenn. Masini, rides again 5431 KNUTE ROCKNE-The original 1940 Lux Macho men smoke under umbrellas
Need Student Tix for Tenn. Call Tim ­
Cathy,

Radio Theater production starring Pat and see graticelli -Thanks
3178 or Bill-3126 Desperate: Need 2 GA Tenn tix. Please O'Brien and Ronald Reagan now avail­L. I'm looking formward to your visit on call John at 3507 able on tape cassette. Relive the Friday.
Big bucks for 2 GA Tix for Tenn. Call Bunny
grandeur of Notre Dame's greatest Women!! Do you feel you options areBrian 1791 
Need two Student Tix for Tenn. game. legend. Send $5.98 to Little Shop on the limited? Join us In discussing Issues and Call Jayne 7889 or Sherry 7962. Prairie, P.O. Box 132, Minot, N. Dakota alternatives in the Women's Role Aware­Lou Pagley Fan Club initiation: Giusep­
I need 1 student Ticket for Tenn. Need 2 
pe's, Friday night. Dues: three triple
58701. Satisfaction guaranteed. ness Workshop. Call the CounselingGA also. Call John 8549. 
Desperate girl needs ride to Jersey or Center, 283-1717 for Information and Wendy burgers. vacinity for Thanksgiving break -call 76 Camara registration.
NEED RIDE to Connecticut or vicinity for 7674 6 cylinder, 3-speed Hey Y'Atl! Suesi Hobbs is 19 today! All Thanksgiving. call Pete 1601 
good-looking men are invited to give her
Escellent condition, Call 232-1339 after 5 Mary, Lisa, Laurie, Karen and Cathy,Am looking for 2GA Tenn. tix... will pay p.m. Thanks for playing Co-ree B-Ball. You a call and make a date! 4-1-5403 
1need 2 GA Tenn Tix. Call 8937 
reasonable price! John 1786 all played great. With better coaching, Much love S, S, J, A and MP 
(P.S. don't ask for Ann!)
FOR SALE: GA Notre Dame Basketball we might have won.
Need 2 GA Tenn Tix. Call Tim 1064 
Desperate SMC chick will do anything for Tix. 2 for each game. Best offer -Call 
Coach

Tenn. Tix. call 41-5488 1159 Listen to the Apollo flash his bolts of 
Gues you didn't see may ad yesterday. news from the top of mount olympus.Still need 2GA Tenn Tix for my Dad and Desperately need two Steve Martin Tlx at Dave· Thursday 10 p.m. on the ADONIS SHOW
You still up?
uncle. Give me abreak. Call John at 3507 WSND 640 a.m.
any price call 1993 PERSONALS Pat Paulsen is coming!! Nov. 12 8 p.m.
Desperatley need Tennessee tix in quan­The SA Death March is a Turkey Trot
Needed: 5 GA Tenn tix. Family coming Ken Kadlack, O'Laughlin Auditorium.
ty! 4 GA and 3 student. Call Pennee up for game. First time In four years! Call Where where you during the Glee Club I Compared to the Suicide Stomp. (Be41-4679 Sue 4832 Concert? there, Fri. at "THE CORE").
Marilyn,G.&B.E. Happy Birthday to an unscrupulous girl.
Need 3 GA Tenn tlx. call Rick 234--1765 Need 2 GA Tenn. tix. Call Ed, 2253 JOHN PHILLIPS· Happy 19th from your stoney buddies in Colorado. Check your
To the cripples:
Needed· 2GA or Student Tenn. tlx. Call Need 2-4tickets to N.D.-U.S.S.R. basket-T~!.~of mail for a surprise.
I promise not to even think about the
Mary 41-4359 ball Game. Ed, 2253 Chapter One Mark and Meg.
sprin~ formal -ya all will be safe. 
He awoke to the dull buu of his Margie-baby
Need 2 GA tickets for Tenn. Call J.B. at Wild and Crazy guys need Steve Martin morning alarm at precisely 7:30 am, SAND M­1161 tix. Call Mike 3074 feeling a bit scuzzy and in need of a Bobert-Happy Birthday. Meet you on the 13th? Help! Help! Help! Desperate!~ need 2 reviving shower. So he stood on his head What kind of fruit do you like. Banana.
Need Tenn GA the for Dear ole Dad. 1786 and sang the "Star-Spangled Banner" Wine and Cheese Party~GA Tenn. Ti)(. Call Jean at 803 phonetically backwards while doing eye . . Tonight -K of C Basement, 9:00, all Need 2 GA Tenn tix. call Jim 1034 exercises. Then he turned the alarm off. The Adonis IS upon us tomte. 9-11 p.m. management majors and SMC Business 
Wanted: Studenttixfor Tenn. game. Cali (To be continued) WSND 640. Naturally majors welcome. 
1_D_ian_e_a..t4685---------~---------~-----L---------------A---------------L---------~---...a 

.. -----~-­. J 
-~ 
Thursday, November 9, 1978

12 the observer 
NO's Restic excels in academics and athletics 
Joe Restic 
-by Ray O'Brien professional student. "When group." . . 
) ··,. Sports Editor you're in premed it doesn't leave Restic has Improved m the 
) much time for anything except classroom and on the field since he1 studying and playing football. freshman year. He has already
l . Earlier this week Notre Dame's ·'·2,:-~~:t.:­
After one semester you learn what earned his fourth varsity letter and
Joe Restic was chosen as a National 
Football Foundation and Hall of to expect and it's just a matter of has been named on several all­
! 
budgeting your time." America lists for his gridiron
Fam~ Scholar Athlete for 1978. 
Could 1t be only a coincidence talents. However, there have been
The senior varsity football player 
that this standout scholar-athlete. ups and downs in both fields. It is
qualified for a $1,000 graduate 
calls the football coach of Harvard as hard to study after a loss as it is~ fellowship offered to those that ''Dad?'' to go to practice after flunking a 
pursue an advanced degree. For 
"My father stressed getting an test. Then there is the distractions
Restic, the award was simply the 
education because he warned that of a professional football tryout for
result of goals set freshman year 
football was something that you those lucky players. 
and a lot of hard work. 
could enjoy for four years but "We have setbacks just like 
"I decided when I got here four eventually you are going to have to anyone else. These do not keep me years ago that I was not going to live off the education . vou re­from attaining the standards I set waste the education that Notre ceived," notes the Milford, MA in either field, •' notes the scholar­Dame had to offer,'' explained native. ''The coaches also really athlete. "If I get a chance to play Restic. "It was somethin~ I stress academics. What good is a pro-ball that would be fine, but that 
thought was worthwhile and JUst kid with all-American potential if won't keep me from studying just 
decided to commit myself to.'' as hard-as I've always done. It's all
he can't play for you? But more a matter of pride in reaching theThese goals are easier said than than that, I really feel th~ coaches level you know you are capable of.''
done, especially when you are a care. Mike DeCicco also does an Restic's immediate goal is tofootball player for a team like Notre excellent job as academic advisor.'' 
gain entrance into dental school. ADame. The pressure of playing for There have been accusations at shot at professional football is also a national power like Notre Dame many schools that the athletes get in the back of his mind but thatand excelling in the classroom must special consideration in classes and . career is less controllable. "Yoube intense, so how does this so their GPA's don't accurately can't plan on playing football allAll-American candidate manage reflect their true ability compared your life because I could get injuredsuch success in both fields? to the "average" student. Restic tomorrow and never play another"When I first got here I thought denies such practices at Notre game. But I can control myjust like many other high school Dame. "I don't think I've ever education and that is what I willseniors that the work would be gotten special consideration. 
easy. · attitude as People say that but in reality end up relying on," adds Restic.
That changed we soon as I started getting those C's have it tougher. When you are Notre Dame has the best record 
traveling you miss Friday classes of any other school with a big time
and D's on my first papers," said 
and tests and all that material must football program for graduating its
the seventh semester pre­
be made up. I don't think we get players. Is there an atmosphere at 
any special considerations and N.D. that promotes results like 
shouldn't get any. When you come Restic's? 
here you make a commitment to "This school is unique because it 
football and academics and you does not lump all the athletes should live up to both." together. We are encouraged to go 
NOTRE DAME, IN-Irish basket­man. Anatoly Mishkin, a 6-10 State, Kansas and Arkansas the Still, the stereotype of the dumb out and meet other people and get ball couch Digger Phelps already forward, popped in 22 points next week on three successive jock is not about to disappear from into the normal student living knows that his '78-'79 Notre Dame against the Beavers-and 6-5 Sergei nights. That's big league, there's the college scene. How do the pattern. For that reason Notre basketball team figures to rate Iovaisha is the probable starter at no doubt about it. smart jocks feel about these pre­Dame is perfect for me. My whole 
l Irish netters to host USSR 
life has centered around m~·among the top half dozen teams in the other forward slot. "I hate the word 'jock',"
While playing the top American judices? 
friends, football and academics.
the nation in most preseason • • After almost four weeks of collegiate teams should help the says Restic. "I like to feel I'm a You. have to be a certain kind ofestimates. And the Irish head man practice, the Soviets are the kind of Soviets prepare for the next Olym­'normal' student and I don't really person to go here and that does not
will find out where his team stands team we want to play because we'll pics, the use of international rules often face that dumb jock attitude. just apply to football players.
in international circles Friday night find out quickly where we stand up will help expose many top United At this school there are a good Because of all that, I would come as Notre Dame confronts the USSR front," says Phelps. "The Soviets States players to the regulations number of athletic people that here a million times over.
National team-and international have six people on their roster 6-10 that will be part of the 1980 games concentrate on academics and ath­And Notre Dame would be glad
rules-in an 8:30 p.m. contest. or taller and, since most of them in Moscow. and just part this
letics I'm of to have you Joe. 
are a little bit older than college

A capacity crowd of 11,345 is "International rules can be 
age, I'll guarantee their experience much aas
expected at the Notre Dame worth as 10 points in a 
difference things

Athletic and Convocation Center makes a when game where one team is unfamiliar 
start to get rough under the 

Belles finish third
where the Soviets will be playing with them," claims Phelps.
r their fifth game of a 13-game basket.'' "We've naturally been working on 
(,' Soviet coach Alesandr 
I United States tour. The Soviets getting them down, but they'll 
l 
opened with a 106-105 overti.me Gomelski's backcourt should con­never become as instinctive as they 
in district tourney 
sist of 6-0 Stanislav Eremin and

victory over Athletes in Action are for the Soviets. '' 
6-10 swingman Andrei Lopatov.

Thursday in Long Beach, Cal., then Among the differences in the by Beth Huffman opponents by winning 11-15. The
Others roster

dropped an 87-85 decision at on the include 6-S international rules are the use of a Sports Writer Valparaiso team stacked up its
Ivan Edeshko, 7-2 AlexandrOregon State Saturdav. The{ 30-second clock and three shots to momentum and pulled together toBelostennvi, 6-10 Vladimir Zhigili.Soviets plaved at New Mexico make two for a player fouled in the The Saint Mary's volleyball team win game two, 15-6. Game three,6-10 Nikolai Deryugin, 6-7 SergeiMonday and Kent State yesterday act shooting. of a the final game of the match,of Instead capped off it's season with a 16-8 sawTarakanov, 6-6 Alexandr Popkovl before heading to Notre Dame. one-and·one free throw situation record by finishing third in the Valpo come out in their strongestand 6·2 Valdemaras Holichus. I 
"You have to give the Soviets following the seventh team foul. district tournament held Saturday. form to revenge SMC, 15-2. Though the Irish often are men­credit for coming over and each team gets to shoot two shots The Belles missed qualifying for The loss to Valparaiso dropped 
t 
here tioned for their physical play playing the kind of schedule they for everv foul after the 1Oth state by one place. First place the Belles to the losers' bracket of around the boards. the Soviet squad are undertaking. They have 13 infraction-~ Only coaches can call Valparaiso and second place Saint the tourney. The semi-ftnals saw 
figures to provide the size and games in three weeks and there are time out. and officials are not Joseph Renssalaer will represent Saint Mary's struggle against Saint 
I 
I strength to match Notre Dame. no cupcakes anywhere. They go to required to handle the ball od the district at Taylor University in Joseph Renssalaer for the right to 
inbounds plays.
Led by 7-4 center Vladimir Bloomington to play Indiana the the state tournament. meet Valpo in the finals. St. Joe Tkachendo. who came off the night after they play us-then they While the international rules and En route to the third place finish won that right by overpoweringbench for 18 points against Oregon have Purdue, Michigan State, Soviet height may be problems for in the double-elimination tournev, SMC, 15-2, 15-8. 
State, the Soviets likely will present Illinois and Iowa before the week is Notre Dame, Irish depth will not Saint Mary's opening game was The competition at district ended a front line that averages 6-10 per over. Then they go to Indiana be. Phelps has 10 lettermen back 
against Notre Dame. The Belles Saint Mayry's 1978 season. Coach
from last years 23-8 NCAA final 
won by forfeit in the opening round Wilma Aitcheson expressed ex­
four entry, including eight of the 
over a disqualified Irish team. treme pride with herteam's play all 
top 10 scorers and nine of the top 
Moving on in the competition, season. Aitcheson termed the
1l rebounders. 
SMC's next match was scheduled Belle's play as well-rounded andLeading the returnees will be 
senior co-captains Bruce Flowers with Goshen. Goshen fell 15-10, outstanding throughout the season. 
ami Bill Laimbeer who figure to 15-11 as the Belles continued in Both Aitcheson and Assistant 
split time at the pivot position this their path to third place. Coach Maroni, along with the 
winter. The 6-9 Flowers and 6-11 In round three, Saint Mary's met returning underclassmen players, 
Laimbeer combined to average 15.0 the eventual district winner, are looking eagerly and optimisti­
points and 11.4 rebounds between Valparaiso. Early in regular season cally toward next year's season. 
them a year ago. and Phelps feels play, SMC had upset the strong This year's team was well-loaded 
the two will improve on those Valpo team. During the first game with talented freshman and other 
figures this year. of three, the Belles showed that underclassmen, pushing next 
Kelly Tripucka, a 6-7 sophomore they could again knock off their season's outlook exceedingly high. and Orlando Woolridge. also a sophomore at 6-9, head the cast of forwards. Tripucka is the team's top returning scorer with an 11.7 
Bobby Orr retires 
point average his freshman cam paign to go with a 5.2 rebound Chicago [AP]-Ilockey superstar .. It was a verv difficult decision. mark. Wooridge. one of the club's Bobby Orr. his hopes for a come­but I don't feel that I've been 
( 
more exciting players with his back shattered by a ravaged knee, cheated. l have one of those I ,· innovative slam dunks. added 4.1 announced his retirement yester­injuries that athletes sometimes f points an outing as a reserve day from the game he dominated get," he said. "If any athlete came fr.Qntliner last winter. for nearly a decade. to me with the problem I have I 
'· 
i Two more sophomores. 6-S Tracy "I'm officially retiring as would recommend he do the same
a Jackson and 6-1) Gil Salinas, also player,·' Orr said at a news thing. I know I'm no longer able to 
figure to see plenty of playing time conference. "I will not make play."
after valuable reserve roles in 
another comeback attempt." The 30-vear-old Orr has been '77-'78. 
The Chicago Black Hawks' plagued by injuries for much of his 
In the backcourt, Phelps will rely 

defenseman said he would remain illustrious 12-year career. Orr, who 
on the experience and court sense 
j with the National Hockey League holds or shares 12 individual NHL 
of 6-3 junior Rich Branning and the 
' club as an assistant coach. records, had played every game in 
overall skills of 6-3 sophomore Stan Orr said he decided to retire only two seasons. Signed as a Wilcox. Branning, Notre Dame's 
because he felt he was not contri­free agent after 10 seasons with the'"'· , L~ 1. offensive quarterback the last two buting to the team and because his Boston Bruins, Orr played in just
Rich Branning applies defensive pr~ssure on an out-of-bounds seasons, scored 11 points per knee, which was operated on for 20 games for Chicago in 1976-77 play during last year's game against the Russians. [photo by contest last year while handing out the sixth time in April 1976, gave and sat out the entire 1977-78 John Calcutt] (continued on page 11) him a lot of pain. season. 






