l OC causes handicaps, advantages 
Editor's Note: This article Is the first In a two-part series discussing life off campus. Today's article will discuss the advantages, the dis­advantages, and the projected changes In off-campus life, while tomorrow's article will trace the steps which a student might follow 
in making the move off campus. 
by Pat Mangan 

While Edmund Price, director of Student Housing. distinguishes be­tween the "actual" and "virtual" certainty of a housing lottery' the fact still remains that, if the current trend continues, the University could be as much as 150 beds short at the beginning of next year. As the housing shortage seems inev­itable, and a lottery a strong likelihood, many students are seri­ously considering the move off campus. 
As in many controversial issues, there is no simple clear cut answer to the student faced with an impending lottery, and confronted by the big question. "Should I move OC?". But there are many factors which he might consider in making a decision. 
Among many OC students, there seems to be ''two sides to every coin'' attitude about life off campus. While the majority, on one hand, claimed they couldn't be pain to move back on campus, they maintained that they still are faced with various problems. 
Most of the OC students ques­tioned, listed a ''Iact of representa­tion" on campus as a big problem. John Fitzpatrick, Student Govern­ment Off-Campus Coordinator, termed it "taxation without repre­sentation." 
According to Fitzpatrick, al­though there are about 1000 stu­dents off campus who are each charged a $17 Student Activities Fee, there is no OC representative on the Campus Life Council, nor on the Board of Commissioners, which is responsible for the allocation of funds. 
Furthermore, such representa­tion would call for amendments to the two ruling bodies' constitu­tions, and such amendments may only be made with a 2/.l vote of the campus representatives who are already members of the BOC and 
CLC. "Ironically," said Fitz­patrick, "the thousand or more OC students are excluded from the very process which will decide their 
.fate.'' 
Another problem expressed re­garding off-campus living was transportation. People on campus 
'(0C gtudettts atre e~cQuded ...' 
fearing a lottery, as well as OC students, have raised questions in this area. At present, Shannon Neville, part of an OC Ad-Hoc Committee, is investigating the possibility of a shuttle service. 
According to Neville, John Reid, director of Student Activities, and Fr. John Van Wolvlear, vice-president of Student Affairs, are in favor of a shuttle bus service and implied that such a service will probably become a reality. 
Fitzpatric said that there used to be a shuttle service last year, but it was short-lived because of inade­quate planning. He added that as soon as necessary data was in, the possibility of a "semester bus" would be explored. 
. One OC student commented that although not having a car can be a handicap, it is usually possible to get a ride with a friend or house-mate. Fitzpatrick suggested that car-pools might be a viable alternative to transportation prob­lems. 
Another problem OC students have is that even though they live off campus, they spend a great deal of time on campus and have no space designated for them. Ad­dressing this problem, Fitzpatrick said that the establishment of an OC Lounge in the alcove adjacent to the main area of LaFortune was being investigated. He added that its establishment is very probable. 
So far, possible problems have been the focus of this article, but there has also been amny points made for life off campus. Most OC students ,who were questioned cited their increased freedom and living space as advantages to living off campus. 
One student, "a double domer" who spent his first four years 011 campus, and who is now in his second year off campus, said that the increased freedom and privacy of OC life is a big psychological advantage. "Freedom is helpful too because you are faced with living in an unsheltered environ­ment in which you must grow and mature,'' he said. 
Dan D'Antonio, director of Off­Campus Housing, added that many of the students who live on -campus really don't get off campus enought to realize that there is a variety of activities going on off campus as well as on. 
Many on-campus students' atti­tudes can be summed up in the remark of a Pangborn junior. 
[continued on page 9] 


an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's
Vol. XIII, No. 59 Monday, December 4, 1978 
Instead of store 
SU to sponsor record sale 
by Rob Powers Staff Reporter 

Student Union Director Bill Roche announced Friday the Stu­dent Union will hold a record sale in late January. to compensate for the rejection of the · permanent record store proposal. 
Director of Student Activities Joh? Reid said he "will give formal approval to the basic plan. 
According to Roche, after the Student Union conducts a three week advertising campaign, stu­dents may order records during the fourth week of January throught the Student Union. Student Union will then send the orders on to a discount record outlet, based in Indianapolis. Delivery of the albums should take about a week, Roche added. 

Prices will be "significantly lower" than existing list prices and the average retail price for records in the area, l<.oche said. He said he could not give an exact price for the records at the sale. although he added that the prices would pro­bably vary between $4 and $5, as compared to the price range of Bookstore records ($5,33-9.73), and local record shops (3.99-6.98). 
The· record sale is ''strictly a service to students," and not a "profit-making venture for the Student Union," Roche stated. 
However, Roche still intends to press the Administration for per­mission to operate a record store on a permanent basis. The store. he said, would be the only ''long term 
solution''  to  the problem of  stu­ 
dents  facing  higher  prices  and  
poorer selection of records.  
A permanent  store  would  not  

only be ''a greater convenience for students," but "a learning experi­ence for the people operating the store," Roche said. 
·"ot a.ptro6it­ma/Qu,g ve"hme .:.' 
Reid called the record sale "a fine idea that answers some of the concerns that Father Van Wolvlear expressed.'' On November 21, Van W olvlear, Vice President for Stu­dent Affairs, rejected the Student Union's proposal on the grounds that a record store was not "a serious need of. students," and ''that it is not the main function of the students to get involved in operating businesses.'' 
Reid stated that he sees the record sale as ''similar to the plant sale in concept. This is not an experiment or a first step towards the record shop." 
Reid pointed out one advantage of the record sale over a permanent record shop is that "financially, there's much less risk," since there won't be problems of excess inven­tory. 

Acts in the New Keenan Review included this dramatic reading Saturday ni ht. Photo b Cate McGennis]. 
Teen assaults jogger 
by Jean Powley Saint Mary's Editor 
South Bend and St. Joseph County police are searching for a white youth with a rifle who raped a Saint Mary's student early Satur­day morning while she was jogging along the campus' nature trail on the northwest perimeter. 
The student, who was treated at St. Joseph's Hospital, described her assaiJant as a white teenager, 5'7" tall, with blond hair below his ears, blue eyes and acne on his face. He was wearing a blue snow suit and carrying a rifle. 
According to Saint Mary's Dean campus at about 8:15 a.m. when she saw a young man with a gun. She told Rice that she thought he was shooting rabbits. 
of  Students  Kathleen  Rice,  the  
student  was  jogging  in  an  open  
area  on  the  northwest  edge  of  

According to the victim, she started jogging faster. The youth chased her, however, and shot off the gun a couple of times, Rice said. He then caught her and assaulted her. 
The student was not otherwise physically harmed. 
Saint Mary's security, assisted by city and county police, searched the area for clues Saturday morn­ing, but have not yet apprehended a suspect. The case remains under investigation. 
This is the first time a rape has occured on Saint Mary's campus itself, Rice said. 

. .
.· 

Monday, December 4, 1978
2 

the observer 
,...News Briefs--------...... 
t==::::==::==::==::::::::::==::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=::::: National 
Russia renegs ongrainpact 
WASHINGTON [AP]· The Soviet Union is lagging far behind in buying U.S. grain under the third year of an agreement calling for it to purchase wheat and corn on a regular basis. Purchases announced so far by USDAare running only about 25 percent of what they were a year ago. The most recent sale officially announced by the department was on Sept. 29. Department officials are not alarmed at this and point out that the Soviet Union ­unlike a year ago -just recently completed a record grain harvest and probably still is assessing its import needs for the coming year. Four years ago, the Soviet Union signed an agreement in which it pledged to buy a minimum of six million metric tons of grain annually-divided equally between wheat and corn -beginning with deliveries on Oct. 1. 1976. 
Jerry Lewis kicks drug habit 
NEW YORK [AP-Comedian Jerry Lewis says he nearly put a bullet through his head five years ago while under the influence of massive doses of pain-killers but recently has kicked his addiction to the drug, according to an interveiw in People magazine. Lewis, the magazine said, became addicted to heavy doses of Percodan after doctors were unable to stop the pain from a spinal injury he suffered during_ a pratfall in an act in Las Vegas in 1965. The famed heart specialist, Dr. Michael DeBakey, whom Lewis had met through one of the telethons, persuaded Lewis to go into the doctor's Houston clinic, where examinatin showed Lewis had a stomach ulcer. DeBakey was quoted as saying the massive doses of the pain-killer had hidden the ulcer symptoms and that if the ulcer had gone undetected a few more weeks it could have l1emorrhaged and ~illed the comedian. 

Fiedler leaves Medical Center 
BOSTON [AP]-Boston Pops conductor Arthur Fiedler was discharged from Tufts-New England Medical Center on Sunday after four days of treatment for exhaustion. Hospital officials did not disclose details of the 83-year-old conductor's condition during his stay. He was admitted Wednesday, and the hospital said he was discharged late Sunday afternoon. Fiedler, who has conducted the Boston Pops for SO years, is scheduled to conduct a nationally televised tribute on his 84th birthday Dec. 17. 

Police investigate shooting 
NASHVILLE, • [AP]-Police are trying to determine whether the bullet that killed songwriter Lee Emerson Bellamy was fired from his own gun or from a pistol that belongs to Barry Sadler, who recorded the hit "Ballad of the Green Berets." Police said Sadler told them he fired one shot Friday night at Lee Emerson Bellamy, 
55. Homicide Detective Jim Sledge said the shooting appeared to be slef-defense and no charges had been filed by Sunday. Sadler, 37, whose song about the U.S. Special Forces sold nine million singles and albums, said he considers himself an excellent shot. because of his training as a Green Beret. "I fired to miss him by two feet," he said. "If I'd been trying to kill him I could have put a bullet in his ear. I guess either his own gun was cocked and went off or my bullet richocheted off the glass." 

Nixon visits the 'Big Apple' 
New York-An entourage of Secret Service men accompanied former President Richard Nixon as he left his hotel for a quiet Sunday afternoon of watching football and visiting with his family. He said he planned a quiet family day visiting his daughter, Tricia, and son-in-law, Edward Cox. The former president said he planned to do some Christmas shopping during his 10-day visit in New York and did not have any public appearances scheduled. 

Weather 

cloudy, windy and cool today with snow flurries. Highs in the mid to upper 30s. Clearing and cold tonight-with lows in the low 20s. Partly cloudy and cool tomorrow with highs in the upper 30s. Chance of measurable precipitation 30 percent today. · 

~On Campus Today_------.... 
5:30pm meeting, french club, faculty dining room, so1,1th dining hall 
6:30pm meeting,, finance club, 120 hayes-healy 
7 pm mass and reception, for the sanctity of life, celebrated by bishop william e. mcmanus, spon­sored by nd-smc right to life, breen-phillips chapel 
8 pm basketball, nd vs rice, ace 
Cult leader 
faces 



court charges 

KINGMAN, Ariz. [AP] • Charles Dederich, who turned his Synanon alcohol and drug rehabilitation program into a religious cui, was arraigned in his hospital bed yesterday, too drunk to be taken to court, on charges connected with attempted murder, authorities said. 
Dederich, 65, was formally charged at Mohave County General Hospital with conspiracy and solici­tation to commite murder in a bizarre rattlesnake attack on Paul Marantz, 33, a Los Angeles attor­ney. He was held in the hospital's jail ward in lieu of $500,000 bail. 
Dederich was arrested on a fugitive warrant Saturday at his home in Lake Havasu City by Mohave County seriff's deputies, and Los Angeles officials had sought to have him arraigned immediately. 
But Los Angleles district attor­ney's spokesman AI Albergate said, "He was too drunk to be taken to court," and instead was sent by ambulance to the the hospital. 
Mohave County Sheriff robert D. Rathbone said a county psychiatrist examined Dederich and decided he should remain hospitalized for three to five days because he is suffering from depression and a heart condition. He declined to be 
. more specific. 

*The Observer 
Disease Night 

Bubonic Plauge: Scoop Sullivan Leprosy: Jim Rudd Bacteria: Mary Pat Ellis (Get well soon!), Pamela (Yabba­dabba-doo!) Degnan, Margatet Kruse Mononucleosis: The lovely Margie Brassil Common Cold: NOT the Adonis, but Margie Brassil! jock Itch: Paul Mullaney, Kevin Murphy Arthritis: Lisa DiValerio, Kim Convey, Beth Willard Chronic Insomnia: Katie Brehl (Thanx, Katie!) Viral Pneumonia: Katie Kilkuskie Cancer: Mark Rust (is too slow ... ) Tapeworms: Renee Leuchten, Joe Murphy, Bob Rudy Myopia: Cate McGennis 
The Observer Is publish~ Mon­day through Friday eKcept 'Jurtng tJCam and vKAtlun periods The Observer Is published by the students of Notnt Dame an.i Saint Mary's College. Subsa.ptiOns may be purchased for 120 per v••r ($1 0 per seme1ter) from ·rhe Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indian• U556. Second class post..e paid, Notre Dame, Indiana, 46556. . The Ob1ervtr 11 • member of the Aasoct•tecl ~~~. All ,..pro­duction rlthh .,.. reaervad. 


................................•...•..•.•...•...•........•......•.
• •
The New • • 
•
•
Notre Dame Fight· Song: • • • 

"The Little Blue Nun Replies'' 
-a 33'13 mini album -a true collector's item -a great holiday gift 
On sale in the 
Library Concourse 
Dec. 4,5,6, 7,8 5:30 to 7:30 
Proceeds benefit: 
Big Brothers/ Big Sisters of St. Joseph County 
•
• 
··································································• 
All Students Invited To: COMMERCIAL BANKING NIGHT 
Tu~s., Dec.. 5 at 7:30pm Hayes Healy Au d. 
TopiCS: International Money Markets Trusts: The other Side of Banking Commercial Banking in Perspective Operatons at the Mellon Bank 
Reception following at _Senior Bar 


Tues-Wed. Dec. 5-6 9am untiiSpm La Fortune Student Center (Main Lobby Area) 
Sale Arranged bv GALLERY LAINZBERG, Cedar Rapids,lowll 
----------------------~---------­
Refugee boats sink, claim twenty-six lives 
KUALA LUMPUR* Malaysia 
[API • Two boats packed with 
Vietnamese refugee'> sank off 
Malaysia's northta:;t coasr anJ in 
the Guli of Tbai!dnd yesterday 
drownin5 at least .Z6 and sending 
the known death toll from such 
incidents in the past two weeks 
past 350. 
Hundreds more refugees slipped 
through stepped-up Malaysian 
coastal patrols. There were more 
reports that ethnic Chinese, who 
make up most of the new arrivals. 
are buying their way out of 
Vietnam. 
At leat 18 refugees drowned when their boat off the southern Thai city of Narthiwat, where they had been refused permission to land Saturday. More than 300 swam ashore. Police said they may have scuttled their boat to avoid having to sail on, and that the number of dead may be higher since no one was sure how many the boat carried. 
The other boat sank off Mechang on Malaysia's northeast coast, where hundreds of refugees land daily. One body was recovered and seven others were feared drowned. The 46 survivors were taken to refugee centers. 
On Saturday 139 refugees drowned or were lost and feared dead after a boat that was refused permission to land sank north of Mechang. Four more survivors from that wreck were found yester· day. 
At Kuala Trengganu, in the same region, police threw a rope to a refugee boat in rough surf and towed it ashore. All 160 occupants landed safely, but police said one died of a heart attack as he reached shore. Nearly 200 refugees died there Nov. 22 when a boat turned back by police and villagers sank. 
SMC sponsors St. Nick's Bazaar 
Saint Mary's Social Commission is again sponsoring the annual St. Nick's Bazaar in LeMans Hall lobby tomorrow through Friday 
from 10 a.m. to S p.m. 
The St. Nick's Bazaar gives local merchants, craftsmen, and stu· dents the opportunity to sell their wares. Registered booths include merchants from North Village Mall, and the South Bend and Michigan area. 
Crafts for sale range from mac­ramae, needle point, picture frames and matting, to genuine handcrafted Indian jewelry. Pre­sent at the Bazaar will be the Sisters of the Holy Cross selling stationary and baked goods, along with art students exh exhibitin · eir ceramics and paintings, wmcngare available for purchase. The $5 fee for booth registration will go to a local charity yet to be chosen. 
Monday, December 4, 1978 
the observer 
3 
I 
I 
I
I 


This odet plus two performed in the Keenan Review Saturday. [Photo by Cate McGennis]. 


SUBSCRIB€RS:


Many halls suffer damage, 
to extenO YOUQ SUBSC~tptton to 
students h.ur·l snowballs 
*Th~ lndQ~~t~fYw@[
by John G. McDermott 

Several halls suffered damage this weekend as snowballs were hurled through windows, shat· tering glass and requiring some students to be taken to the hospital. 
Of the 18 halls that were con­tacted, approximately 55 to 60 windows were broken and seven students hurt. Morrissey, Dillon, Alumni and Keenan Halls were the targets for most of the damage. 
In Morrissey, five students were hurt, two seriously. Sophomores Danny Tarillo and Brian Morris were standing in the Morrissey lobby Friday night when snowballs shattered the window. 
Tarillo said that therewere about 20 to 30 students throwing snow­balls at the hall. "I had no idea it was coming. We didn't do any­thing to proboke this. I just couldn't believe they would throw snowballs at· the window," Tarillo 
said. Both Tarillo and Morris suffered surface wounds from the flying galss but were not seriously hurt. Later on that night, between 
12:30 -1 a.m., the bedroom window of Mike Rhodes was broken. Rhodes and some friends were having a small party at the time. Because of the heat, Rhodes and another freshman, John Gib­boos, ··were standing by the win~ dow. When the window was hit, flying glass fragments were ern­bedded in Gibbons' upper arm and in Rhodes' nose and upper chest. Both were taken to St. Joseph's Hospital where they received stitches. 
Another freshman in the room, Andrea Irnbriaco of Lyons Hall, was also hurt but not seriously. Securit~ was called but by the ti!"e they arrtved, the students throwmg 
. the snow were gone. . Brother Edw~rd Luther, Moms­sey rector, pomted out that the 
serving notre dame & st. marvs much worse. In all, 12 windows 
damage to his hall could have been 
thQOUqh th€ SPQJnq ·79 S€ffi€St€~
were broken. He estimated that 
damages and repairs wiH be 
between $150 to $200. 
Luther stressed the fact that no 
Morrissey student did anything to 
aggravate the situation. "We were 
not antagonizing anyone." he said. 
Luther speculated that the group of 
students invoh;ed were probably 
from different halls. 
In Dillon, 15 windows were 
destroyed throughout the weekend 
but no one was hurt. Commenting 
on a rumor that Dillon .students 
were involved in the damage done 
to other halls, Fr. Joe Carey, 
assistant rector, stated that "abso­
lutely no Dillon student was in· 
volved in the snowbalJ throwing. 
We wouldn't break our own 

{continued on page 9j 

r--------~----------------~
Fr. Griffin l~r----------------------!11. I 
lt~ormlifeCrampin9-------1\..-.\Sf to celebrate 1:Your Sty!4;,~...... -~~e. l"'t" 1 daily Advent Mass 1~--------I" I 
There will be a Mass today in LaFortune Ballroom at 12:15 p.m. 
~o\te 
,J
celebrated by Fr. Robert Griffin, University chaplain. This noontime 
I

Mass will be celebrated each weekday during Advent. 
~2 bedrooms completely furnished 
l-complete kitchen Observer 
1-oH -street parking 
apologizes 
I

t-UP to 4 students 
for error I 
l-s280-300/month
The Observer would like to 
I 

apologize for a mistake in the Saint 
Mary's Student Assembly article I 
last Friday. A 3.0 applies strictly to call234-6647
1 

//
/

// // . . ..· I 
/" · _. . . . . . . . ~.. · 11 
scholarships and not to the work· study program or loans. 
'----------==------------_;~ 







''A Search for the Hottest Lips on Campus" 
Wednesday nightfrom 7to 1om A chance to win an all expense paid week~nd trip to New York for a photo session The top four· girls will have their photo's submitted in the contest The top girl will receive $25, 2nd prize $10, 3rd &4th Bud-mirrors Contest will be judged by N.D. footba II players other specials during the night 7-11 Bud cans-2tor $1 

Goose's &Budweiserpresent 
a a~ a a a a o a • a • • • a a 



the observer Monday, Dece'!!_b~r 4, 1978 
N.D./Toronto Student Exchange 
What: an educational, cultural, and social exhange open to all students of NO 
When: Oec. 2 ..5 NO Students at Toronto March 2-5 Toronto students at ND 
Cost: a 550 non-refundable fee is due by Dec. 8 at the student government Offices. 
Sign-up on a first come, first serve basis. 
Openings available for 117 students max. 
Make checks payable to Student Government Fund. 
AMAN REACH~ SHOULD EXCEED 
HIS· GRASP... ~ 
Whf'n ~uu thinl. o~huut il-i•n'l lht' point of lift> ft'4C hmlf uuU Onh wht>n ~tplt> oHt' 
t p 

\f'( urt>, hrAVt' .md npt"n t>nnu~h In rt'd' h · £ out lo olht>" dnt>• lift> lw~~:m Itt viPid tht> ,..­ju~, tlw fullillmt>nl. Wt' t"\Pf'C I from it. Mn~l of U\ lhinl. we <~rf' rt>,u hml( out: · · 
lor tht' job. tht> lulurt'. utht>f\ m nt>t>d. lht> on~ WI' low. But. if wt>'rt> hunt>'l. WI' drt'n·r rt>d< hinl( nul dl dll. Wt>'rt> ..impl~ ~~:r.thhinl( lm '>f'< urih · d lift· tho~!\ •dft>. prt>diC l.thlf' . .1nd oni~ J(llt"o •u !.u ... limitt"d.•md pPrho~po.. llmtlin~~:. 
THI P4ULIS T<, lwhf'vc· m rt>d< hmR oul. lo pt>uplt> ~~~oho n~ In ht>dr lht' C.n~pPI. ~·pit' wh<t drt' lont>h .snd 1 onlu~t>d. pt'Oplt> 'f'dr< htnM fur truth, lor -.cHTlt>tllin~~: to !Molit>w in-in cnllf'J(~ dorm~. un cit~ •lrt't'l•, in •lum... in \uhurb,, m wht>rt'vl'r tht>'l' mdt h4·. 
Wt> rt>otc h uut ht>c o~u•t> wt>'rt> mi"•nn.trtt'' ut tht> ( oltholtc (hun h, • group of prtt'\1\ dt"dtc o11t'd lu pnKio~iming Tht> Gospt>l in our lim...., bf'uu~t> 
wt> bf'lit>vt' God i\ rue hin!l out to """'" ont' of u... If YOU think YOU l dO ft'd(h out d~ Wt' do, if you think God m•v bf' ulli"A you to o1 lift> ul st'f\<i( ~.as •n inllf'nliVP, modt'rn, dt'dit .att"d prif'\t, ~ritt> THE PAULJSTS-.t Aroup of rnt>n ~ho shdrf' a hoi~ vision o1nd liw th•l \'ision in o1 frt'f' •nd fril"ndl~ """~· 
THE PAULISTS 
FILL OUT THE COUPON BELOW FOR MORf. INFORMATION -'BOUT TH£ NULISTS 
Rev. Frank Sweeney, C.S.P. The Paulist Fathers Office of Vocations · Rm BA 3015 4th Street N.E. Washington, D.C. 20017 
PluM Mncii'M moretnformalton on ltla work of THE PAULISTS 
and the PWuhat Prlftthood 
~A~----------------------------------------• 
ADD~Ei~ ----------------------------
Cth ----------:---------------­
STAY( -------------------/IP ----------­
C.Oll£(>( All£ '<CliNG -------------------
CIJoSS Of 

1979-80 Applications Now Available 
New and Renewal Applicants 
Office of Financial Aid Room 111 of Ad Bldg. 
In addition to finals 


ND prepares for holidays 
by Cathy Santoro 

The Christmas season at Notre Dome is much more than a crowded library and "all nighters" in prep· aration for finals. Students and faculty have planned a variety of activities to celebrate the coming holiday. 
Fr. Robert Griffin, University· chaplain, will begin the celebration with the lighting and blessing of the University Christmas tree on the Feast of St. Nicholas, Wednes­day at 7 p.m. 
When the University issued a directive prohibiting live trees in the dormitories two years ago, the Student Body decided to select a large tree in front of LaFortune to be the official school Christmas tree. According to Griffin, • 'Hav­ing just one tree provides a sense of sharing; everyone can see and enjoy it." 
Immediately following the cere­mony, Griffin will host a St. Nick's Party for children of the faculty, staff, and administration. The party will be held in the LaFortune ballroom Santa Claus, a magician, elves, Kris Kringle, and the Glee Club will be on hand to celebrate the Feast of St. Nicholas, who is the patron saint of children. 
Over 400 persons attended last year's party and Griffin expects a large attendance this year. "I'd like to emphasize that everyone is invited to out Christmas celebra­tion," he said. 
The Glee Club will be spreading some Christmas cheer again this year by caroling in the women's dormitories. They are planning a 30 minute Christmas concert in 
each women's residence on Wed­
nesday. Tom Conlin, a member of 
the club, said, "It's our way of 
introducing the Christmas spirit to 
a lot of women, who might never 
have the opportunity to hear the 
Glee Club sing." 

The Glee Club will also host a 
Christmas concert on Wednesday, 
Dec. 13 at 8 p.m. in Washington 
Hall. "We've planned a special 
surprise for everyone to see and 
hear," Conlin added. The one hour 
program will be free. 

The Notre Dame Chorale, Chapel Choir and Glee Club are planning an Advent Vespers celebration for Sunday at 4 and 7;30 p.m. in Sacred Heart Church. The pro· gram will highlight "Carpentier's Magnifica.'' Conlin called the concert "a chance for the Notre Dame music· community to put together a major work related to the Advent season." 
Several dormitories are also planning Christmas events. Sandy Br;mdt, president of Bree-Phillips, described her hall's scheduled week of activities. The girls drew the names oftheir Kris Kringles for a gift exchange in section meetings on Sunday. The door decorating contest begins today. A winner will be judged by the hall fellows and will be awarded a pri.ze at the end of the week. On Tuesday night, the girls will put their shoes out in front of their doors for the Rector's Assistants to fill with candy. 
The activities continue on Wed nesday, St. Nicholas' Day, when each girl will give $0.25 for her Kris Kringle to donate to a special fund. The money was traditionally do· nated to the Hunger Coalition fund, but this year it will be given to a group of Indian children in South Dakota, who are badly in need of eyeglasses. 
The activities wi11 culminate on Saturday with a parade of candles to the dorm mass and a hall dinner in the North Dining Hall. 
Morriss-;:y residents will cele­brate Christmas this coming Fri­day, with their traditional talent show. The activity will be preceed· ed by an informal dinner in each section and a dorm mass. The talent show will feature skits put on by each section. There will also be an emcee, a prize for the best skit, and a guest appearance by Santa Claus, according to hall President Ken Kadleck. 
Badin Hall is having a "Surprise (Screw) Your Neighbor" party to celebrate the Christmas season. Mary Margaret Bleyer, a member of the hall's Social Commission, said that each girl will be in charge of choosing a date for another g1rl to go to the hall Christmas party this Saturday. Bleyer added, ''This is the tirst time we're trying this type of a party. I think it will be a good 'time and we expect good hall participation.'' 
Jim Veraldi, sophomore class president, stated ''Because of the poor response to our class Christ· mas party at the Come and Dine restaurant (scheduled for last night), the dinner was canceled." Instead, the Sophomore Class is hosting an informal get together this Friday night in the LaFortune Ballroom from 9 p.m. to 1 a.m. 
•'This will be a place to go after studying to meet friends, have refreshments and listen to Christ­mas music," Veraldi explained. 



Sr. Nelligan travels to Rome to attend UISG meeting 
by Margie Brassfl Staff Reporter 

Sr. Kathleen Anne Nelligan, superior general of the Holy Cross Sisters of Saint Mary's, recently attended a meeting in Rome of the Union of International Superior Generals. 550 superior generals from six continents represented their orders and the sisters of their countries at the meeting. 
This is the eighth year that the 
U.I.S.G. has met. It is a means for the sisters to discuss topics dealing with their work, faith and life in relation to their region. They discuss a different topic every year 
Sr. Kathleen Anne Nelligan... is superior general of the Holy Cross Sisters of St. Mary's. [Photo by john Macor]. 
and different sisters attend. 

According to Nelligan, this year's topic, entitled: "Women Religious at the Service of a New Humanity"' dealt with the role of religious in raising the conscious­ness of the new humanity in their work. 
Based on a q uestionaire the answered before meeting in Rome, the sisters first discussed how they saw the world today in their individual countries and situations. Nelligan remarked there was such a diversified group present that the answers and discussion gnerated a wide variety of ideas and reponses among the sisters. 
Nelligan explained that the meeting was divided into three phases. The first phase looked at past history to see the major changes in humanity and how the Church responded to these changes. 
Nelligan referred to the role of missionaries as an example. "The past thought was the Western Civilization was best, and when the Church went into foreign countries they tried to impress Western ways and life on them, rather than seeing what was good in their own culture and helping them to ad· vance through their culture." Now, because of books and re­search and realizing the mistakes that were made, they can utilize this information so as not to make the same mistakes. 
The meeting dealt with the realization that upon entering the Era of Technology the world has also entered a new era of history and the role of the Church must change in order to bring a relevant Christain dimension to the times. 
The second and third phases of the meeting dealt with how nuns should respond to their awareness of the new humanity, and the new humanity itself·its formative pro· cess and traits. 
The meeting pointed out, accord­ing to Nelligan. ·'that we are living in the time of the Risen Christ, yet no one really knows what that means.'· In discussing the role of 
(continued on page 8] 


Monday, December 4, 1978 
the 
Dorm links damage, injur·y 
I 


to football rivalry with Dillon\ 
by Leslie Brinkley 

Many incidents of destruction over the \Veekend were linked to the rivalry between Keenan and Dillon Hails. prior to their champ­ionship interhall football game yesterday afternoon. With a score of 10-0, Dillon emerged the victor. although they were blamed for numerous broken windows and the injury of a Keenan resident on Friday night. 
Kevin Dolan, president of Keenan hall, claimed that most of the dorm attended the Keenan Revue (Friday) evening, and when they returned to the hall afterwards they found many broken windows. Students who had remained in the dorimtory explained that a group of people, saying they were from Dillon, pelted the building with snowballs. 
One second floor resident was 

"beaten up," according to Dolan, 
and immediately taken to the 
infirmary. although he sustained 
no serious injuries. 
On the other hand, Dillon Pres­ident, Marty Paulson, cited many broken windows in his hall and attributed them to Keenan. An­other possibly related incident included a power failure in Dillon on Saturday night after someone apparently threw the main switch, 
atcording to Paulson. 
When questioned about the in­jury, Paulson responded, "I got a call about it, but I don't know who did it or if it was a Dillon guy. A group of about 70 guys from here 
went to Keenan Friday night, but·! ·another dorm was after Keenan 
too." 
During the dinner hour on Satur­
day, 200 Dillon residents invaded 
the North Dining Hall. Paulson 
described the scene as a "good 
exhibition of hall spirit. It was 
organized--we staged a little pep rally. but there was no food fight. We tried to keep it under control. I'm sure security is glad the game is over." 
Referring to the football match. Dolan claimed that ''no one in Keenan feels that the team let us down. It's just unfortunate that the 
weather was so bad.  Dillon played  
a good game."  
To  celebrate  the  win,  Dillon  
residents planned  a  victory party  

last night at Kubiak's. 

Comedy was standard fare at the Keenan Review Saturday night. A complete review of the sho"' will be in tomorrow's Observer. [Photo by Cate McGennis]. 

ND Club to show hospitality 
by Michael FraUey 
fhe Texas Club of Notre Dame plans to treat all Dallas-bound ND students to some "southern hos­pitality" during the upcoming Cotton Bowl football weekend. according to Texas· Club president Roman Macia. The Cotton Bowl Student activities will be co­sponsored by the Texas Club and the ND Alumni Club of Dallas. 
"We have a lot of activities planned for the Cotton Bowl week­end that should really make for an enjoyable time for all of the students," Macia said. "I'm very confident that our program will be successful and that we can carry on the ND spirit--Texas style." 
Macia outlined the many activi­ties which the Texas Club has planned for the Cotton Bowl week­end. 
A "Welcome to Texas" cocktail party at the Reunion Tower of the Hyatt Regency in Dallas will kick off the bowl weekend. The party is scheduled for Dec. 30 at 5:30 p.m. The following night, a New Year's Eve party will take place at the Dallas Convention Center. 
Following  the  game  on  New  
Year's Day.  the Texas  Club  has  
scheduled  a  "victory  party"  at  

4804 Dorset Road in Dallas. The 
Conference 
attendees 
to lecture 
A meeting for those interested in "Women in the Church: Ministry/ Ordination" will be held this afternoon in the Memorial Library Lounge at l :30. There will be several presentations by attendees of the Women's Ordination Confer­ence in Baltimore. Bishop McManus, of the Fort Wayne­South Bend Diocese, will also be present. 
• 

party will begin at 9 p.m. and all are invited to attend. Head­quarters for ND activities in Dallas will be at the Hyatt Regency, and Macia urges that anyone who has a question about what to do in Dallas to contact the hotel. 
Macia also revealed that a brunch, barbeque dinner, and ND dance are tentatively scheduled for the weekend, but plans have yet to be finalized. Maps of the Dallas area are also to be distributed this Thursday afternoon in Lafortune Student Center. 
"We have planned a lot of fun for our feno·w students at the Cotton Bowl," Macia said. "We hope that through all these activi­ties we can bring the community together while in Texas. 
This is the first year of organi­zation for the ND Texas Club and so far, Macia noted, things have been quite successful for the new group. Along with the scheduled Cotton Bowl activities, the club has sponsored happy hours as well as travel services for the University's Texas students. 
•
:
•
•
•
• 
•
• 


' •• 

CHUCK MANGIONE IN CONCERT TONIGHT ON PUBLIC TELEVISION 

• • • • • • ·~ts!o!••• 
FOR APPOINTMENT •
•
•
• 
,..
: 
: 
* 
: 
:
* 
: 
,..
* 
: 
,..
* 
* 
,.. 
~ 
Jf­
)f­
*
*
*
* 
)f­
1lt 
~ 
)f­)f­
)f­
: 
...._ ::: 
~ 
Jf­


krn:U ben 
COMPLETE HAIR STYLING FOR MEN AND WOMEN 
•
•
• 

703 LWW MISHAWAKA. INOI.,..NA 4~544 • 
~*********************************•
J • ,.. 
.. otttThe : 
~ho~Biz :
G ,..
teats : Tltis '-1utntner : 
~ ,.. In the Disney College Workshop ~ 
*

*SINGERS * * 
* INSTRUMENTALISTS * ~ 
You could find yourself performing * on the most famous stage of all . . . * 
* Disneyland® I Watt(i)asneyWorld® ! 
College Freshmen, Sophomores and Juniors are eligible to audition tor this 12 week * surrrner wockshop tn entertatnrrent. Scholarships, housing grants and stipends will Jf­be awarded those selected. Minimum age, 18. )f-Sin~: Prepare vocal piece of your choice. Disney choreographers will provide )f­dance routine-singers must dance. )f-Instrumentalists: Prepare 3-5 minute pertormance selection. ALL APPLICANTS )f-BRING MUSIC, INSTRUMENTS (including dwbles). PHOTOS AND RESUMES. )f-
FOR ALL INFORMATION REGARDING AUDITIONS CONTACT: Jf-DISNEYLAND WALT DISNEY WORLD ~ 1313 Harbor Blvd. P.O. Box 40 ~ Anaheim, CA 92803 Lake Buena Vista. FL 32830 Jf­
(714) 533-4456 ext. 701 (305) 824-4206 ext. 4206 ,.. DO NOT CALL AUDITION LOCATION lt 
Live auditions will be tdl at the following locations: : .l:1n. II I> 12, 10 A.M. -6 P.M. )f­4'!110 STAI'I' UNlVF.RSITY )f­30 W. I ~ t h St. Ccolumhu~, Ohio 43710 ~ 
~*********************************• 
We can prove our rates are reasonable, beyond a reasonable doubt. ___...... 
Under the ABA/Law Student Division life insurance plan. a person under 30 can purchase S50.000 of · insurance for only $150.00 a year. And. by assigning your dividends to ABA/LSD your insurance benefit increases to $75.000. That's $1.000 of protection for every $2.00 in annual 
premium. 

When you want to increase your coverage. we won't make a federal case out of it. either. You can purchase additional . insurance by simply assigning your dividends to the ABA/LSD. Or. you can purchase up to $25.000 extra protection three years from the date your policy goes into effect. And. you won't have to prove you're insurable. 
These are just some of the re~sons why our insurance plan has earned the endorsement of the ABA/Law Student Division for the past 21 years. 
Now it's up to you to weigh all the evidence. We think you'll find in favor of the ABA/LSD Life Program underwritten by Minnesota "'utual Life. 
ABA/LSD Life ProgramConsultants 
Lyle Fisel 229 S. Michigan Street South Bend IN 46601 289-4061 

The ABA/LSD Life Program underwritten by 
Minnesota Mutual Life~ 
ST. PAUL. MINNESOTA 
4 




P.O.BoxQ
*The Observer 
~n independent newspaper serving Box Q the notre dame and saint mary's Notre Dame community Ind. 46556 
The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame a~d Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the pollcres of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possrb~e. Edrtorrals represent the opinion of a majority of the Edrtorral Board Comn:rentaries, opinions and letters are the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and the free expression of varying oprnrons on campus, through letters, is encouraged 
EDITORIAL BOARD 
Tony Pace Editor-in-Chief Steve Odland Managing Editor John Calcutt Executive Editor Barb Langhenry Executive Editor Rosemary Mills Editorial Editor Phil Cackley Cor'r Editor Jean Powley St. Mary's Editor Ann Gales · News Editor Mike Lewis News Editor Diane Wilson News Editor Rav O'Brien Sports Editor 
Doug Christian Photo Editor 
Mardi Nevin Production Manager John Tucker ~~siness Manager 
Bob Rudy Advertising Manager 
.... --~--~ December 4. 1978 
Catholics: 

the other religion? 
Dear Editor: 

Allow me to interject some humor to your day. The Office of Campus Ministry, that prized cita­del of liberal thought, in their commendable effort to embrace all members of the Notre Dame com­munity regardless of their reli­gious, political, social, moral, etc. persuasion, have asked students to fill out a form entitled: "Religious Preference Sheet". I quote: ''Campus Ministry Staff wishes to know your religious preference. We feel that your input is an important service for our informa­tion. We can use this knowledge to better meet the spiritual needs of the Notre Dame community. Below you will find a list of different faiths. Please "X" the blank to the left of your preference. There is also a space labeled "Other", in the event that your preference has 
Violence, to Americans has become 
as natural and unavoidable as the 
four seasons. Perhaps because this 
nation was founded by the sword, 
we have lost all respect for violent 
occurrences. Of course we are 
genuinely shocked when five 
people are butchered in an ambush 
in Guyana, but beneath this veneer 
of shock lies a generally lethargic 
view towards the act itself. We cry 
for those dead just as if they had 
died in an earthquake. We see this 
tragedy as "inhuman" and "unciv­
ilized'', yet we fail to realize how 
human it really is. 

Our acceptance of violence evolved from our American value system. A 62 year-old member of the People's Temple responded to the death of his wife who was one of the 900 cultists who participated in the murder suicide in Guyana: "Naturally I felt quite badly about it, but you can't cry over spilled milk." It is this fatalistic attitude towards violence and death in general that reveals the super­ficiality of his--and our--values which represshim from expressing any sympathy towards his wife. To him, she has become no more than a quart of homoginized milk! 
What does it take for the 
not been listed here. In that case, 
we ask you to pleas write in your 
preference ... " 

Imagine my surprise when I read 
down the list, and instead of finding ''Catholic", the list goes from Buddhism to Christian Meth­dist Episcopal. I then thought my religious preference would be listed under the "R's", for "Roman Catholic." But instead, I find the list goes from Quaker to Seventh Day Adventist. Yes, you guessed it, I had to mark the box ·entitled "Other", and then I wrote in Roman Catholic, all the time looking about me lest someone see me marking the "Other" box and thinking that I was a member of 
some fanatical cult! I I 

Some of you may find this 
humorous, others may find it Sikh. 
Speaking of Sikh (sic?), I've never 
heard of that religion, nor have I 
ever heard of Eckankar ... but then 
I'm just a plain old Catholic, at a 
Catholic school, so what do I know 
anyway? 

John Claude 
witnessed a cameraman's brain get blown out of his head and splatter on an NBC minicam? How can we condemn Jim Jones for giving his followers values that led them to their deaths when we do not criticize our own vaiues that led young boys to die in the swamps of Vietnam? To me, both sets of values are equally demented, yet because we ·do not evaluate our precepts and perceive the death mask behind them, we will contin­ue to lead our sons to their graves to the tune of the National Anthem. 
We are told that Notre Dame affords the student with not only a strong academic background but a moral fiber which will guide his life along a just path. This moral fiber should be achieved by a reevalua­tion of our principles and a synthe­sising of those principles which are then deemed morally correct. It saddens me to see students who are blind to those values which enforce the declension of their existence. They continue to men· tally follow the same paths laid down by others just as they follow the wire-enclosed paths on campus. If once in a while they would step over that wire and judge 
Record store decision questioned..• 
Deu Editor: 

I wish to endorse your November 30th editorial: "Better Reasons Needed" for Fr. Wolvlear's deci­sion against the Student Union record store proposal. I urge you to continue pressing the point, re­spectfully, but forcefully. My suspicion is that the real reason was not given you at all, as I do not see it alluded to or countered in your editorial. is the real reason not wanting to cut into bookstore profits? If that is the case, it would be a shame. Such a situation would constitute a monopoly, and the Ch.urch.has some serious things to say against the evils of monopolies. 
Worse than that, it would be a shame to find out you weren't dealt with honestly. Too many intelli­gent people seem to feel the whole story has not been told, truthfully, or that the administration is simply protecting its own by not permit­ting any reasonable competition to the bookstore (whose record selec­tion, even at discount prices, would leave so much to be desired). 
If the above suspicion is wrong on my part, I'd like to hear it plainly and clearly that my unmen­tioned reason was not the real reason in all this. As it stands now, too few people remain convinced by Fr. Wolvlear's reasons. Reason that is clear to so few is generally considered suspect. If there isn't a fly in the ointment here some· where, the burden is now on Father to take whatever pains necessary to make that crystal clear. 
The Church suffers when her people feel her priests have been less than clear and honest. I am not saying Father was unclear intentionally or dishonest. I am saying too many doubts linger about the integrity and honesty of the decision as presented. That's why the decision has to be addres­sed anew. The existence, or lack of it, of a new record store around here isn't going to be remembered for generations to come, really. What is going to be remembered for years to come, however, is whether our students leave this place with the clear impression that her priests were honest and fair and consistent. That's why I urge more clarity from Fr. Wolvlear--to restore his own integrity and that of priests and the Church every­where. If the decision is to stand, let us be told more clearlv, if at all possible. Or, let us· have a retraction of the decision. Either way, I believe some apology is in order for causing such doubts in the minds of so many, which has also reflected adversly on priestly leadership in the Church. 
Fr. Dennis D. Evenson 
...and not left to die 
Dear Editor: 

Sine~ the proposal for a student­run record store has been rejected, being against Father Van Wol­vlear's principles and due to the student's lack of competency to run such an operation (which is obvious unless you look at things like Flanner Records and everything else done by the Student Union), we are left with three choices for buying records. First, we can find a car or take a bus to an off-campus store. This is great if you have an hour or two between classes. Second, we can go to Planner Records, which is on campus. I'm afraid this won't be possible next year, since they've been ordered to close down at the end of the school 
DOONESBURY 

year. The final choice is the 
bookstore's record selection. It is 
located right in the middle of the 
campus, so it's easy to hop in and 
pick up a record. 

This last choice is only accep­table if you can tolerate an operation which often ignores the tastes of college students (I haven't noticed many fighting for Shaun Cassidy or Donny and Marie), which takes weeks to stock "new" releases, and which charges almost full Jist prices on all albums except those which nobody buys. It is obvious that the bookstore is a poor solution to our record needs. (Yes, needs. Try going without music for a week.) 
Since a well-rasearched and feasible Student Union proposal hasn't shown the administration that we want a better deal and improved service in records, I suggest we boycott the bookstore's record department until the situation is improved. In the meantine, we can try forming a record co-op to get improved prices and selection. 
As Bill Roche said, "I don't consider the issue to be dead." We shouldn't let it die. 
Sincerely, 
Brendan Fagan 
by Garry Trudeau 



~~·~~~ '''''*'';::::::,:~ ''""'''~'''''~'''>.:>;:::::::~:'X<m::::.~:,:,:,:,:;,:,:,:;x:;;:::::::::::::>;:<~::: ''''i<=i~'''",e,,,,*'''*'''""""'''''*"*'>~:<::::x:::::<:::>.«i>;::x:::,:,:;:::::::::!i:: 
WASHINGTON As reported in this column last week, the Carter Administration is giving more and more thought to civil defense. One of the things the U.S. government is doing quietly is assigning pri­ority numbers to those people who 
will have  to  keep the  wheels of  
government  spihning  during  an  
emergency.  They  are  to  be  

evacuated out of the capital to 
mountain hideaways in Maryland. 
Therefore the latest and most. important status symbol Jn Washington is where you're assigned in the evacuation pecking order. 
I probably would never have heard about the plan if Mulligan of the PostaJ Service hadn't broken a luncheon date with me. "I have to go before the Civil Defense Evac­uation Appeals Board,'' he ex­plained on the phone. "They've given me an H-14 number, and I was assured I'd be given an H-10. An H-14 means I'll be ·;vacuated on the same helicopter as HEW Secretary Joe Califano.'' 
"1 assume then," I said, "that if you have an H-14 that means the helicopter has to make 13 trips before it will pick you up." 
essentiaJ · to keeping the United "He has -a B-1 card.'' States going in time of disaster.'' ''What does that mean?.. "Can you tell me what you'll be ..He·s to be evacuated by the doing?'• 1 asked. first available beer truck." 
"I'll be in charge of rationing ''Are they giving out priority wartime junk mail. Once the numbers to the press?" I asked balloon goes up people will only be honefullv. · · allowed four pieces of junk mail a "You're all PB-9S* which means day." you'll be evacuated on press busses 
"But nobody can live on four as soon as Jody Powell and his staff pieces of junk mail a day,'' 1 are safe.'' protested. "Where do we rendezvous for 
"They'll have to," Mulligan the buses?" said, "at least until the fallout "At Amy's public school." clears away. But I can't get the "Does everyone in Washington system going unless I have a higher have an evacuation number to get evacuation number. Do you know safely out of town?" Simpson in vouchers has an H-3?" ..Of course not. There's only 
"What kind of vouchers?'' I room in the underground mountain asked. tunnels for a limited number of 
"Just vouchers," Mulligan said. people such as the Supreme Court, ''The govetnment figures no members of congressional commit· matter what happens after the first tees, the Joint Chiefs of Staff, the missile strike everyone is going to President and Vice President of the ne.ed a voucher, so Simpson's been United States, and anyone who given the same evacuation number buys a table for the next Democrat­as Jerry Rafshoon." ic fund-raiser~ at the Washington 
"Rafshoon has an H-3?" I said in Hilton for $10,000. •· surprise. "That should take care of every­
"Yup. If wt~ get into a nuclear. body who is necessary," I said. "If war, the President's going t<I have you don't receive a priority number some image problems with the to be evacuated from the city, what Americans who are still left. It will are you supposed to do?" 
American to become sick of their values, they might eliminate "That's right," he said, "and be Rafshoon's job to make sure ''You can go to the department violence? Does he have to see his external plasticity that does not it's not fair. Winship, who is in they understand it wasn•t the stores and take advantage of the friend gasping on the ground with differentiate between spilled milk charge of Muzak for all government White House but Congress that got unbelievable Evacuation-Day Holi­his chest caved in? Does he have to and spilled blood. Maybe then we buildings, was given an H-9 on the us in all the mess." day Sales." 
will have the moral fiber to conduct
see what San Francisco Chronicle grounds that he was important to ..IfRafshoon has an H-3 priority, [c) 1978, Los Angeles Times 
our lives in a truly humane way. 
reporter i(on J avers saw wnen he employee ~orale. Yet my job is what does Billy Carter have?.. Syndicate 
I I 
Monday, December 4, 1978______f'l8 obserye[ 








Wanted: Senior Fellow 
The election for Senior Class FeUow wUI 
be held on Monday and Tuesday of nerl 
week In the Dining Halls and LaFortune. 
The foUowlng Is the first In a two part 
• series of proiDes on the final candidates for· the Senior FeUol"' Award. On the ballot, seniors wUI be asked to select four [4] names &om the list of thirty [30] who they feel best demonstrates personal qualities of unselfishness and feUowshlp, have made the most slgnlftcant contribution to society, are most outstanding In her/hls vocation and best typifies the spirit of the Class of '79. The Senior FeUow Committee encourages all seniors to cast their vote next week. 
.l(ATHERINE HEPBURN • The first and only actress to win 3 Academy Awards, she is the unchallenged ''first lady of American cinema.'' In addition to her well­remembered petformance in "The Lion in Winter" and "The African Queen," she united with Spencer '1 racy in a relationship which produced 8 movies, finishing with "Guess Who's Coming To Dinner?" Characterized as indestructible, outspoken and energetic, Hepburn is also a woman of compassion as evidenced by her devotion and care of Tracy as his health deterior­ated. Since her debut in 1925, Katherine Hepburn has maintained her earthy, 
~) -:_ :.: -.__ '_.. ' ·. -·-:.'., :-::: :: •. _-.. 
·.·.· ·byMark Ost·. 
·. ··· · ·· ·· ·· ···· ·• .. •: PConventlonaltl is one tbihg:that no one mdependent character through five de­cades of complex and demanding Holly­wood and Broadway portrayals. 
DUSTIN HOFFMAN The anti-star hero, Hoffman became the non-Establishment idols of the late 60's and early 70's. This 
talented introvert manages to drown every indication of his own personality in bringing to life the extremely diverse characterizations of such films as "The Graduate," "Midnight Cowboy," "Lenny," and "Marathon Man/' Known for his sensitivity and relative modesty, Hoffman maintains a low profile in Hollywood, guarding the privacy of his personal life, his wife of 9 years and their 2 children. 
RICHARD DREYFUSS· Dreyfuss, who has recently recieved an Academy Award for Best Actor in the movie ''The Good-Bye Girl," has also starred in the films: ''American Graffitti, '' ''Dillinger,'' "Apprenticeship of Duddy Kravity," "Jaws," and "Oose Encounters of the Third Kind." He has recently fininshed work producing the current movie, "The Big Fix." Dreyfuss was an active participant in civil rights marches and lobbying for amnesty bills. During the Vietnam War, he served alternative mili· 
··· .·. •evident in th~ 4bclplined···· staging · and focused ~ing. .·lJis· suc~ess in putting togehter a $lJow of this ~liber is an. the 

t••r;:,r.~r~•-~=~~~t:!to:~·t~~=~>•••••··••••••·•••• ···~e~~Mti;ra:=:~i~~t!~l~i-.
;(~f being. Certaln~y be. d~s all the things ···•·•··.·····••-·· ·Every jspect ofth~ pla,y•. nom·Jim lloule~s · 
' JJiat ntak.e a·.· great playwright··-great~ .his · dialogue is ~risp, his charac.:tetsJll'e vivid; Jlle · images he· paints a.re ·stark ·and · : I>erceptive. Butthere is another element·· , biza1Te, perhaps, i$ the adjeCtive we are ·· looking for here·-tbat make an Albee play .·.· mastetfut. That element is an unusual perspoective and an equally unusual way of making the audience appreciea.te that perspective. There are ntany things that stand oat in one's mind after seeing the ND•SMCTheatre's production of his 1971 
··drama uAll Over;• but perhaps the most powerful is the ''in the round.. staging and the force with which that staging requires the audience to take an active part in a rather uncomfortable subject--death. 
The point of the play is dear. An individual's death is an intrinsic part of his life, and, indeed, the difference between the two may only be one ofdegree. Jnthe. face of another's death, one reflects on ooe's own life in such a way as to lay naked the self-centeredness of those reflections. The characters--in their reflection··all come to some frightening realizations about the emptiness of their own lives, lives that are rushing headlong toward a sometimes obscure, but always present. ultimate conclusion. Albee deals with death and selfishnes sin a fairly non­judgemental way. The judgement is left up to the audience. 
The audience, in fact, is the silent character in the play. Set in the l'ound with actors interspersed among the audience, the action takes place within the close . physical proximity of everyone present. The set on which the audien~e participates is the room of a man who lays dying. The man, and his approaching death for that matter, is quite peripheral to the play. But. even though we never actually see him, he becomes the foil against which the charcters measure their meager, empty lives and rail, moan, whine and weep in a desperation not so much for him as for themselves. 1t is a dark play, and this is the first thing one senses. The presence of death rather quickly takes a back seat to the agony of the dying--a group that includes both the characters and the audience--who realize that "death" is mostly a matter of degree. They are forced to measure theirlives in terms of dreams. hopes nad aspirations that have long since died, and then determine to what degree death has taken hold of them. At issue here, as was pointed out by _the dying man's mistress, is whether the state of death takes a verb of being (i.e. When will he be dead?). She points out that he once corrected her on the matter of grammar-­one cannot "be" dead since it is an absolute condition in which one either Is or Is not. After experiencing • 'All Over,'' one is not so sure that is the case. 
The play was presented powerfully. The quality of Mark Amenta's direction was 
_lighting (which. by the way, hung over the .top of the· set and·· refleeted···•what··was · obviously·.a huge amount mwork) to the costumes and makeup was.weU done; But what was most impressive was the sophis· ticatkm of the set. Mr. Houle, designer of the set for last month's Student Player'ss production of ~·charlie Brown,.. has de­signed a set that holds not only the action in the play, but the audience as well. The visual effect he creates with sub4ued colors and jagged angles is one that fits with the bleak, sharp perspective on life that Albee intended.. , 
And. finally. the acting was professional and··Well··simply a pleasure to watch> Th.e actors, in addition to portraying thetr 
The Notre Dame student who get bombed on a weekend may reveal more than he/she realizes in the admission, ''I was feeling no pain!" 
Pain is an unavoidable consequence of the human condition. It's painful to be alive; painful to get up in the morning, face the day with its challenges, open up in vulnerability to other people, confront honest questions about yourself and what you're doing with your life. 
C.S. Lewis was right: "Pain insists upon being attended to." We are forced to deal with pain, lh< with it, try to ride it through. 
It's necessary 1.. ~the maturing process. When we can't understand this, we get caught up in all kinds of escape mech­anisms in an effort to kill the pain. But all efforts to avoid the inevitable pain of facing life head-on are doomed to failure. 
Fr. John Dunne tells a fascinating story, the "Parable of the Mountain." In it he describes a man climbing a mountain at the top of which, he thinks, is God. By climbing the mountain, by reaching God, man anticipates that he will leave the pain of his shallow, empty life behind, in the valley from which he has escaped. But while he climbs, God is coming down the mountain, down into the valley, down amidst the toil and grief. In the mists of the mountain, God and man pass one another. 
When man reaches the mountain top he will find nothing. God is not there. What then will he do? He realizes his climb was a mistake. But what now? Agony and despair? Or will he turn to retrace his path. through the mists, into the valley, to where God has gone seeking him? 
"Where God has gone seeking him" ·­this is the key. This is the very heart of our faith. Religion is not so much our quest for God, but God's search for us. That is what it means to be a Chosen People. Not that by some piety or accomplishment we have raised ourselves up over other people t(l a 

tary duty at Los Angeles Count General er. He found his way into the hearts of many Americans for his portrayal of the
Hospttal. 

father in the TV show, "Make Room For BARBARA JORDAN · In 1972 Barbara Daddy." Founder of the St. Jude's Jordan was the first Black congresswoman Children's Research Hospital, Thomas has 
received numerous humanitarian awardsselected from the confederacy. She drew 
from various organizations.
national acclaim for her keynote address to the 1976 Democratic National Convention. Throughout her tenure in congress Jordan DICK CAVE1T -Cavett is presently the has received acclaim for her efforts to raise 
host of a tolk show on the Public the standard of living of impoverished Broadcasting Service Network. A graduate Americans, and has supported much of Yale University, Cavett begatl his career legislation towards that end. Jordan as a TV comedy writer then turned to night 
currently sits on the steering and policy club poetformances. Cavett received an committee of the House Democratic Cau­Emmy Award in 1972 for his provocative 
cas and serves as vice chairman of the talk show on ABC-TV. Democratic National Committee . PETE SEEGER • Pete Seeger is a folk 
DAN ·;RATH.t.:K · Rather, a broadcast singer, composer and author. After
journalist, presently serves -as co­
leaving Harvard University on 1938, See·anchorman of CBS-TV's "60 Minutes". 
ger teamed with Woolie Guthrie to tour the As a White House correspondent, Rather south and southwest, writing pro-labor and accompanied President Nixon on numerous anti-Facist songs. Appealing to thetravels, including visits to the Mideast, conscience of America for almost fortyU.S.S.R. and China. Co-author of 1he years, he is perhaps best known for thePalace Guard and The Camera Never emotional ballads which flow from hisBlinks, Ratl!er achieved public recognition heart and his banjo, including "Whereduring the Nixon era as a provocative and Have All the Flowers Gone?," and "H Iaggressive reporter. 
Had a Hammer." 
DANNY m~MAS • Danny Thomas is an JANE FONDA • This award winningaward winninJt entertainer and TV produc­

actress has appeared in such films as "They Shoot Horses, Don't They?," "Klute," and more recently, "Julia" and "Coming Home." Known for her opposi­tion to the Viet Nam War and for her outspoken feminist views, Fonds continues to actively oppose social injustices in the 
.. ' . 

United States. <cttar~~r* •· Wet'~ ·challenged witlt J,Tc:;e~ing > 
.····thE:lJ: poses thr;ough the ··audiellce·s·•··••• ··•. entrance exit and. interais~ion.. •·· .·. Eileen · Durkin, as thelost and alienated wife, was ..·_·.. s.uper}j...She was tneticulous in• ~ancing •· ·• ·· hel' chara¢terrs emotional reserve. with the .· ·· tortJ1ent ofa love a.,andoned. Catb)'Hurst .· .. ...• evoked sympathy With her.{Mlrttayat· of tne······· misttes$, a woman at onee both forceful iJf asserting her role and humble in deferring to her status. Lisa Jaquez's rebellious daughter was full of energy, with pieroing screams of frustratin punctuating hostile dialogue.. One could feel that Jack of challenge and resolve in the privileged son, played by Mark Harris, who captured him as milque-toast being torn apart by the realities of death. Tony Mockus played the role of best friend witha proper lawyerish ambian9econcemed, even in the end. only with the surface questions of legality that proper lawyerish types are known for. Brian McLinden and Diane Picariello were 

Feeling No Pain 
place of eminence,-but that, in spite of our frailties and betrayals, God reaches out to choose us. 
We object: That's not our experience. being chosen like that. Our experience is just the opposite. We are much more aware of NOT being chosen. Like the seniors who go through the job-interview­routine, and don't get chosen. The many students not chosen formed school, dental, school, law school. The students during room-pick-time who don't get chosen by anyone; or the ones never asked to a formal or hall party or concert; or those who don't even hear an occasional, "Do you want to go over to lunch?" 
All of us know that experience of not being chosen. It's something we endure throughout life. Remember, for example, how it was when you were a child? There were so may occasions of choosing. When boys in grade school, for instance, would choose up sides for softball. 
You'd stand in the schoolyard with a mob of about twenty others, and the two captains would start choosing sides. As names were called out, and yours wasn't one of them, it really got to you. Since selection was on the basis of talent and ability. not being chosen said something about you, what others thought of you. I can remember standing there. praying that my name would be called. The worst experieQce of all, of course, was to be left at the end, especially when the sides were even without you. Then it really got humiliating. One captain would say, "I've got all I need; you talc:.e him." And the other would respond, "No. that's all right; you can have him." 
In the midst of these recollections of how often we are not chosen, God would have us believe that He doesn't operate that way. He chooses each of us by name; we are each chosen first, and there are no condttlons whatsoever. We find this hard 
. to swallow. It's difficult to believe God 
._....-.-..-..-..-._.._.._.._.._.._.._.._. 
most pleasant contrasts to the other'a somber heart wrenching, in their roles as the doctor and nurse. 
Three observations seem in order. First, this is the first all student ND-SMC Theatre production, and, without question, it is a smashing success. Second, the high caliber of the play they have taken on, the acting, directing and set forces one to the realizaiton that this theatre company has arrived in the big leagues. There is little doubt in my ming thafthey could hold their own in comparison to such attention getting peers as the Yale Repertory Theatre. Third, if you want tickets for next weekend's petformances, seating is very limited. Call quickly. If you are reading this at supper, chances are goot that you are already too late. Try anyway. It is worth it. 
Fr .Bill Toohey 

would choose us, since we have so many experiences of not being chosen by anyone else --even ourselves. 
Of course, there is that strange man, Jesus, who was always choosing "the unchoosable." He constantly sought out the hurting, suffering, featful, ordinary women and men, whose lives, more often than not, appeared futile and directionless. 
Take the good thief. I like to think that, in some way, he stands for each of us. He too had been running away from the pain of life, thinking that this was the way to find happiness. What a mess he had made of it! And yet his yearning, I strspect, was like that of a poet, Anne Sexton, who, in her collection of poems entitled The Awful Rowing Toward God, wrote: 
And God was there like an island I had not rowed to, still ignorant of Him, my arms and legs worked, and I grew, I grew, I wore rubies and bought tomatoes and now, in my middle age, about nineteen in the head I'd say I am rowing, I am rowing 

All the time the good thief had been searching for happiness, he didn't know that Happiness had been looking for him. That's why the story of this bandit is the story of many of us: the quest for happiness (or escape from pain) is the quest for God; but He is the one who always finds us .first. And that is why Christianity is good news: We don't pursue happiness; Happiness pursues us! 
He longs for us, searches us out. We have been found, where we are --in the valley··-because that's where He wants to be, too. He shares our cross (our suffering, confused, hurting humanity). Indeed, He is within us, trying to say, "Hang on, we're going to glory .. together!" 
... 
_8....___ _Jt..h..a;a----.:O_.,buSIR.IeiiiiJrvL11a~r______M_o_nday, December 4, 1978 
---r~--------------------------------------------------~ 


Derailment claims six, injures others 
said two more bodies were know•. 
SIUPMAN, Va. [AP)-A Southern to be in the wreckage. Railway passenger train jumped One was identified as Harold the tracks on a curve and piled into Lewis Jackson, 59, of Alexandria, a ravine in mountainous south­Va., a flagman on the train. central Virginia early yesterday. Identities of the others were being
Authorities sa:id six persons were withheld. killed and at least 60 were injured, Seven of the eight passengerseveral critically. cars and three of the Southern 
A severely injured cook was ,Crescent train, bound from Atlanta trapped for 11 hours in the debris to Washington, piled up about 5:40 of the smashed dining car, his legs a.m. three miles north of Shipman, pinned beneath a stove. Workers between Charlottesville and used bulldozers to peel back the Lynchburg. side of the car and then lift the A Southern Railway spokesman heavv stove from the cook, Ned said the train was carrying 65 Haynes of Atlanta. passengers and a crew of about 12. Dr. Kenneth Wallen born of Johnny Bridges of Trenton, N.J., Charlottesville,who climbed into the and Tariq Muhammad of Newark, diner to attend Haynes, said he had N.J., were credited with leading been pinned • 'from the pelvis many passengers to safety. 
down" and suffered third-degree Bridges said it seemed to him the burns on his chest and stomach and train "was sliding for about 10 a broken ankle and leg. minutes" after it jumped the The Keenan Review displayed some unusual entertainment last weekend. ~Photo by Cate
At the scene, snow mixed with tracks. "I could feel it just slide. 
McGennis].
rain was falling in near-freezing just slide." temperatures. Blood was smeared The cause of the derailment had on windows that had been broken not been.-determined. when passengers cescaped Inside, Charles Morgret, a spikesman seats were torn from thetr moor­for the Southern Railway, said, ings and mattresses lay piled in a "There's no way of telling at this 

Jonestown survivors arrive 
jumble in the aisles. early stage what caused the derail­Four bodies were removed from ment." A team from the National 
the huge pileup of passenger cars Transportaion Safety Board was on NEW YORK [AP] -Ten survivors did not know which men were Brockob, 41, a former U.S. Air of the Jonestown suicide-murders carrying the knives, which were Force pilot, said the cult members
and locomotives, and state police its way to investigate. 
flew here from Guyana last night, discovered by Guy an an security. on his flight were "very nice, very but 18 men were left behind Guyanan officials were not avail­well mannered and very calm." because three were carrying able to verify that the knives had FBI officials identified the sur­knives, the plane's pilot said. been found. vivors arriving last night as Dawn 
Pan American Flight Capt. Among the men who stayed Gardfrey, 15; Ruby Johnston, age Albert Brockob said he refused to behind were two of cult leader Jim unknown; Yolanda Mitchell, 18; let the men board after a dispute Jones' adopted sons. Several of Versie Perkins, 32; Andrea Wal­with the FBI over a lack of FBI the men, including Jones' sons, are ker, 32; Beatrice Grubbs, 52; escorts for the group. reputed to have been Jones' per­Dianne Rozyknow, 26; Jakari Wil­
He said he had not seen the sonal bodyguards or members of son, 3; Leslie Wilson, 21, and Flora knives, but he had been told they the Jonestown security force. Townes, 56. Their hometowns were not pocketknives. He said he Nine women and a 3-year-old were not available.
.

child made the trip, and upon their arrival they were questioned a
LaFortune to hold 
length by officials from the FBI and SMCcancels other government agencies. Chistmas party FBI officials said the survivors 
had refused to meet with reporters. career workshops There will be a children's Officials said they did not know if 
Christmas Party this Wednesday at the survivors would be leaving fo;:o Two of the St. Mary's College 7 p.m. in LaFortune ballroom. All their homes around the country Career Workshops have been can­children of faculty. staff, admini­Sunday night. Six members of the celled this week. The Dec. 5 strators and students of the ND­Peoples Temple who arrived Satur­Manufacturer's National Bank and SMC community are invited. The day night stayed in the city and the . Dec. 7 National Life and 
University Christmas tree will also flew on to California on Sun~ay Accident Insurance workshops will be lighted at this time. morning. not be conducted. 


Sr. Nelligan travels to Rome 

[continued from page 4) sisters can raise the consciousness 
manners.'' 

Christ, Nelligan said, "Christ cam of the students so they are aware When the meeting ended, Nelli­
to reconcile Man to the will of the and do the just thing in whatever gan said, everyone felt changed by 
ALL MAJOR SPORTS Father. His life was centered work they are called to.'' 
what was said and discussed. 

around doing the will of the She said that has been a change 
Their changed attitude was
ON 7FT T.V. Father." This, Nelligan explained, in attitudes about teaching; it must brought back to each of their orders is what the nun's vow of obedience now bring a Christian dimension
SHAKEY'S to be discussed again, and in this
SUPER SUPPER is abo••t, "searching to be like relevant of the times. way they will transmit an aware­FAMOUS 
Christ, and doint the Father's But teaching is not the only way ness of new humanity to others, 
5 -7:30 will.'' The message of Christ was in which they are more active. Nelligan said.
MON -lUES-WED 
"all must forgive and realize they Where nuns are, they are to be are forgiven persons," she said. aware of the situation around them
Pizza-Chicken· 

Nelligan explained that through and of what they can do.'' Nelligan Dean Roemer ·Spaghetti-Salad $2.40 their actions, nuns show their writes often to congressmen and awareness of the world around the President asking for certain 
All You Can Eat them. Because this is a technologi­legislation or help for a country in prohibits cal age. people know the injustices need of U.S. aid. She also and oppression of people around encourages other sisters to do this. 
natural trees

the world, and nuns have a '·I myself can not go to Rhodesia,
SOUTH BEND 

323 E. Ireland Rd. 291-7 responsibility to live Christ's but I can write to our men in In accordance with the policy
31 Edison Rd. 289-SSSS 

message in their awareness of this Congress,'' she said. recommendations of the OSHA oppression. For sisters in oppressed coun­Central Committee of the Uni­~··········..·········••++•••••++i Because of this, nuns are much tries, Nelligan said, their role is to versity, James Roemer. Dean of more active than they were in the "stand with the oppressed person, Students announced that the use of
: w NO Ilie ~[) S~{ lliectt1e : 
past. Nelligan stressed that and talk with the oppressors -not natural evergreen trees and/or teaching is still the best means of judge them -but say 'Don't you see branches of same is prohibited in


i 2= ~le§eflt§ : 
reaching people. "In teaching, the what you are doing to this campus buildings since they dry person?''' easiJy and are very flammable. The Nelligan said that the topics committee suggests the use of
i SMC lclwcucl Aill£>£>'§ J 
discussed at the meeting chal­fireproof artificial trees and trim­Bishop McManus lenged the sisters to reflect on what mings where such Christmas de­
i THE AT R E ctll ()l't?l t is happening in their countries, and corations are desired. to be aware of what they can do This policy remains in effect
to celebrate mass 
through their actions to help people from previous years when it was
: SJ:fl· II'~ (Y'le~u~ltllli Aucllt()tluru : and bring the message of Chris­approved by the Student Life Bishop William E. McManus of tianity to them. The message Council.
: "'~ct. IIitil§. f•l. se~t. lJt:t:. tJ~l ~s~CJ : the Fort Wayne -South Bend 
comes through education, prayers There are other traditional decor­Diocese will celebrate a mass for and dialogue with people. ations at Christmas time which
: Seating is wry linited. The audienc2 wi.ll be : 
the sanctity of life at 7 this evening. NeJJigan said Pope John Paul II constitute increased fire hazards,
• seated randomy within the environmental • The liturgy will be held in the spoke briefly with the nuns at the such as candles and Christmas t setting of the play. Please note the, Wednesday performanm: Breen-Phillios Hall chapel, and is end of their meeting. Although she lights. Care and discretion must by
sponsored by the ND-SMC Right to could not understand him since he used by all members of thei reserve your tickets now! Call284-4176 iLife Organization. A short recep­spoke only in Italian and French, University community as to how 
tion with the Bishop will follow the she said she saw •'great joy and and where such decorations are mass. All are welcome to attend. kindness in his speaking and used.
~••••••••••••••••••••••••••o••• •••• 
..................................________________________________________ 
AMA denies 
any conspiracy 

to fix price& 
CIDCAGO [AP]-The President of the American Medical Association vowed yesterday that his organiza­tion will go all the way to the Supreme Court if necessary to overturn a Federal Trade Commis­sion ruling that the AMA has conspired to fix prices. 
Dr. Tom E. Nesbitt of Nashville, Tenn., stated the organization's position as the 336-member house of delegates, the AMA policy­making body, opened its four-day winter session. 
"We intend to fight because the AMA is a private, voluntary associ­ation, and not an involuntary extension of the ITC," he said. 
"We intend to fight because state and local medical societies are free and independent organizations over which the AMA was not, does not, and should not have author­ity." 
He referred to a ruling last week by an FTC judge which held that the AMA has caused medical bills to go up by prohibiting doctors from advertising. 
Judge Ernest G. Barnes said the AMA's policy against doctors' advertising for patients, adopted early this century to stamp out medical quackery, has evolved into a way of assuring big profits for physicians. 
He ordered the 200,000 member 
organization, headquartered in 
Chicago, to rescing its rules that 

• keep physicians from advertising or otherwise soliciting patients. 

MOSCOW [AP]-Two U.S. Cabinet members and scores of America's top business executives were gathering yesterday in Moscow for week-long talks designed to boost trade between the two super­powers. 
Treasury Secretary Michael Blumenthal arrived yesterday join­ing Commerce Secretary Juanita Kreps who flew in Saturday. 
As many as 20 private jets were 
• 

bringing in the leaders of top U.S. we can broaden the areas of corporations to Moscow's cooperation between our two coun­
Sheremetyevo Airport. 
tries to mutual advantage."
About 350 American business­men plan to take part in the annual The level of Soviet·Amencan meeting ofthe U.S.-U.S.S.R. Trade trade has remained considerably and Economic Council. lower than what was anticipated 
Blumenthal told reporters face­during the early days of detente in to-fa~e discussions help both sides 1972-73. ''gain a better understanding of According to Soviet statistics, each other's positions and I am U.S.-Soviet trade amounted to sure we shall find areas in which about $2.3 billion in 1977. 
the observer 

Tornado sweeps 



southern states 
BOSSIER CITY, La. [AP] -A tornado ravaged this northwest Lousiana ,city yesterday and other twisters touched down in Arkansas and Mississippi, killing at least four persons and injuring more 
than  250.  About  140 National  
Guardsmen  were  called  in  to  
patrol.  

Among the dead were two young sisters, kiHed here by a car thrown through the wall of their home as they slept. 
The twisters spun out from a band of violent thunderstorms that spread over the Southeast. The damage in Bossier City alone was estimated at $100 million. 
"It's unvelievable the kind of damage we have out here," said Marvin Anding, mayor of the city of 60,000 persons near Shreveport. "It's just total devastation." 
The dead girls were identified as 13-year-old Lisa Currington and her 8-year-old sister, Jana. A brown compact car lay on its back in what had been their bedroom. 
''They were in their room and this car came flying at the house," said a man identified as the girls' uncle. "It came down on their room and crushed them in their bed.'' 
Mike Liles, an Arkansas resident who was in Bossier City, said he was watching television about 2 
a.m. when he heard the tornado. 

"I went to the door and I saw it wrap the gas station around a pole,'' he said. The small self­service station across the street was a pile of rubble. 
Monday, December 4, 1978 




Dorm links damage to Dillon l'occo's _f 1 
[continued from page 3] 
windows." 
In Alumui, freshman Bill Nortz was struck on the forehead by glass when his bedroom window was broken, all but one of which were bedroom windows. Rozun1 also added thc..t no one was seriously hurt. Rozum estimated that most of the damage was done on Friday between 12 p.m. and 2 a.m. 
In Keenan, 10 windows were shattered and one student was badly beaten up. The student, a freshman, was taken to the infir­mary where he was JC-rayed and held for observation. Fr. Conyers, Keenan rector, felt that the trouble may have been due to the inter-hall football game between Keenan and Dillon. 
Conyers said tl' at he had filed a complaint with tre inter-hall foot­ball office and would also file one w:th the Dean of Students. "There W;tS nothing playful about it," he said. "C\lmpetition is fine but when it comes to damaging proper­
ty or inflicting injury, we have to 
draw the line," Conyers said. 
Most of the damage to Keenan 

happened en Frid<\y at 11:30 p.m. 
and Saturday at 6 p.m. Conyers 
estimates damage ot be about 
$180. 
Fr. Tallarida, Zahm rector, also 

said cha1 Di Ion wa; responsible for 
the damage. "Th : troubl:! started 
when Dillon went to c~lebrate in 
the nNth dimng '1all. I guess they 
had tl eir ow 1 little part) ,'' he said. 
One windo"' was shattered in Zahm 
but uo one ·va~ hurt. 
In Lyons Hall a small fire broke out this week£·nd which destroyed a mattress and caus{'d some smoke damage. According to Karen Caruso, the second floor R.A., the fire occured at 4 a.m. on Saturday. 
According to reports, one of the student apparently did not extin­guish her cigaretta completely and, in her sleep, knocked the ashtray 
"Onto the bed. When girls above on 
the third floor smelled the smoke 
the rector was notified, as there was not security guard on duty that night. 
The fire department and security were also notified, but fire trucks were not sent out because the fire was quickly put uner control. No one was hurt and security report­edly did not think it necessary to take any of the girls to the infirmary. "We were lucky the girls on the third floor woke up," Caruso said. 

Sr. ViviaJI Whitehead, Breen­Phillips rector, said, "I've never seen the campus quite this way on a Friday nighl. Everyone was on campus. It seemed that no one went out; they stayed here to play." 
Luther said, "students throwing SllVwballs at 1uildings are a very serious problem." He asked that students keep the snowball fights out in the open on the quad and away from windows. He stressed that the potential for real physical damage does exist and that stu­denta should be more careful. 
OC causes handicaps, benefits 
[continued from page 1] "Living off campus would be great," he quipped, "I'd be free to do my own laundry and to buy and cook my own food, and an those other wonderful things I'm not able to do now.'' Speaking in a more serious tone, the student continued, "I spend most of my time trying to stay caught up around here. If I had to take all the extra time involved in traveling, house cleaning, cooking, washing clothes and dishes, my grades would hurt or I'd get no sleep." He concluded, ''I might be a lot freer off campus, but I would like to see the correlation off-campus living has with a student's aver­age." D'Antonio however, a student who finished his undergraduate work on campus but now lives off campus, said that he believed students' grades would get better. He pointed out that when a student lives on campus, the 
academic pressures are constantly 
looming over him or her and 
everywhere he or she look are the 
reminders of the pressures. "Liv­
ing off campus helps to make you 
more than a student; living in a 
total student environment can 
cause you to become stale,'' he 
said. 
D'Antonio also said that living off campus was a good way to unwind since one can break away from the books. ''When you close the books there is nobody around you studying, making you feel guilty or pressured to study, or remind you of your work," he added. . 
He also said that the reason that there has been so much talk about the problems is to show students that they can get help. "Problems are the exception. not the rule," he assured. 
The last time students were Iotteried off campus was 1974. In that case the lottery wasn't final­ized until March. .\ _grad student recalled the campus reaction. "The students' reaction then was much the same as the students' reaction now, only more vocal," he 
said. 
Kevin Rochford, a Jaw student who also spent his ftrst four years on campus, commented, ''Many students are rebelling against the move off campus simply because the idea of having a lottery sug­gests that they're being forced off." 
Rochford added, ''A mistake was made, but not the question is not who's guilty, but what's the solu­tion.'' 
''Five years ago," D'Antonio concluded, "no foresight was exer­cised. so today we have a problem. The University is stuck, and we detinitd!' tH~ed a long-term solu­tion, be~t :-_ should not be half­baked. It should be handled carefully. Righ£ now. we want to help those who are going to be immediately affected." 
Security refused to C<Jmment on :i; • ~ • the situation until its director, Mr. o-E Wall, has time to check the ...,. z 
numerous reports. 

Other hall that suffered damage ~ c;; included Badin, Sorin, Stanford, N II) Breen-Phillips, Cavanaugh, and Grace Halls. In Cavanaugh the haltatyllata b~tbera . damage totaJled $130 dollars and in •• •••••• •••••••••••·•••• •••• •••••.: 
Grace, :&100. .
.................._ 
: L :
! 
+
t 

WORLD'S LARGEST BOOTMAKER 
: . AVAILABLEAT : Tony's Shoe Shop • 
:quickservice--reasonable prices: : open Mon.-Fri. 8-5 &Sat. 8-2 : 
+ located next to the barber shop + 

·~·················-t 
~~--~~--~~~~------~O~ur~~

1....~~~0~____.tJb!.!..!lle~o~bf.!s~e~rvL.I.:!e1£.1r'-------M-on_d_a_y,_o_ecember 4, 1978 
~
,. 
Blacks to cast votes on key South African election day 
'HNDHOEK. South-West Africa [APJ • Blacks in this South African-administered territory vote for the first time Monday in elections for a bi-racial legislature. But key opposition groups have called for a boycott of the polls. contl.!nding the balloting is rigged to favor white-dominated oarties. 
South Africa, meanwhiie. sig­naled it is ready to go along with 
U.N. 
demands for later, U.N.­supervised elections. 

U.N. 
Secretary-General Kurt Waldheiin said yesterday in New York that South African officials had told him they would "retain authority" in the territory until such U.N. elections are held there early next year. 


The move apparently was calcu­lated to allay fears that South Africa would turn over power here to the winners of this week's elections, who then might be unwilling to authorize further elec­tions. 
The South Africans had said previously only that they would encourage the new territorial government to agree to a later vote overseen by the United Nations. They say this week's voting is a prelude to independence. 
The United Nations has de manded that South Africa give up 
·control of the territory and put the government into the hands of the black majority through inter~a­tionally administered elections. 
Sam Nujoma, head of the South West Africa People's Organization, has ordered his insurgents to disrupt the voting, claiming the 
1:;:;:;~=~;:;:;:;:::;::: :::;:;1
1 

I II FULLYACCREDITED ltll 
I 
:::: Day or Evening Classes :::: 

ll _[~
l 
Monthly Tuition Plan 
electil•ns will be rigged either directly by South African go\ern­ment supervisors of indirectly by the 'intimidating" presence ;U polling booths of South African troops. Some 25.000 South Afrkan soldiers are stationed here. 
White-governed South Africa insists the election will be fair and invited about 200 Western corres­pondents to observe it. The liberal, bi-racial Namibia National Front, like SWAPO, has cailed on its followers not-to vote. 
Impartial ~'bservers here believe South Africa decided to go ahead with the five-day elections in the belief that the vote would demon­strate to the United Nations that the pro-Pretoria, white-led but multi-racial Democratic Turnhalle Alliance has the greatest political support. 


UTTH THE RECENT OVER CROIJDitK:1 OJJ CAMPUS MANY OFFICES ARE B£11>16 CON­VERTED TO DoRM ROOMS ••• 

·• 



Michael ..ll•ell 






Israelis favor treaty 
JERUSALEM [AP] • The majori­ty of the Israeli Cabinet was reported· yesterday favoring a re­sumption of the stalled Washington peace talks based on the U.S.­proposed target date of late 1979 for moving toward ~alestinian autonomy in occupied lands. 
Semi-official Israeli Radio said no formal decision was made at the Cabinet meeting but most minis­ters were inclined toward reopen­ing talks. The question of linking an Egyptian-IsraeH treaty to Pales­tinian self-rule through some kind of timetable has been the major stumbling block to a settlement. 
President Anwar Sadat of Egypt has announced his country's ac­ceptance of the U.S. target date proposal in a letter to President Carter. But the Israelis have balked at setting· such firm guide­lines, saying it could lead the Egyptians to abrogate the entire treaty if a timetable for Palestinian autonomy is not met. 
The U.S. proposal calls for setting the end of 1979 as a target date for moving toward Palestinian self-rule in the West Bank of the 
· Jordan River and the Gaza Strip. It also calls for language in the treaty preamble affirming the two na­tions'· commitment to eventual Palestinian autonomy. Israel has accepted the preamble language but not the target date idea. 
Last week, Sadat sent a secret letter to Israeli Prime Minister Mehachem Begin about the dead locked talks. Begin yesterday began drafting a letter in response. 

r 
l 


[collegiate crossword 
Observer 

apologizes for error . 
The Observer wishes to apolo­gize for an error in Friday's article about the Junior l)ousing lottery protest. A suggestion to move the brothers out of Columba Hall to 

Holy Cross Junior College in order i to create more student housing 1 space attributed to Joe Kent was actually made by a bystander. We are sorry for any misunderstand­i'?gs caused by this incorrect quota-~ 
tton.  
Answers  I  
to  I  
I  
Friday's puzzle  I  


ACROSS 
1 ~isarrange, as 5 Given to over­
simplification 15 Arrow 101 son 16 Creating enmity 17 Mardf --­18 Asian rats 19 "-Sk.elter" 21 Call's partner 22 Steal 23 Exist 24 Harmful sr!kes 
hair 
28 "Fiddler on the 
Roof" matrhma. er 29 Overhead railroads 30 Equine sound 31 Racing-tyre wheels :2 State abbreviation 33 Quartz vtriety 34 Table scra1 ~5 At an impas!e 37 Tend the garden38 Word employments 41 Toward the stern 41 Kind ~2 Brown pigment 
+3 --fi 44 Respond to · 45 ~iro;t oatdPn 

46 Par.,. of NCAA (abbr.) 12 Brazi 1 resort 47 Distribute, a~ 13 Banking abbrevi­
cards (2 wds.) ation ~ Jesus inscripticn 14 Metric measures 49 ~rmed sea mollusk: (abbr.) 50 ~~ose present 20 First lady55 OperJ solo 24 Opposite of ques. 56 qen .h;r, e.g. 25 1961 "Best Actress" 57 Notice:! (2 wds.) 58 One way to determine 26 Busy
50-Across (2 wds.)59 Ending for ~1 iss 
DOWN 
1 7orme~ cartoon shC'w 
(' wds.) 2 Imp. ?mptu 3 Packo ·ing need 
(? wd!>.) 4 Six-iine stanzas 5 ~-~ncing swrrd 6 EnJing for ~ay 7 The; have flip~ers 
(2 wd_.) 8 Jewish •lernentarJ'· schools 9 ~ure of be' ,g won 
(2 wds.) 10 ·~rnateur Hour" host 11 Shuan 27 Hurdy-gurdy (2 wds.)-29 TV Tarzan, Ron ­30-Sack 32 "-a boy!" 33-set 35 Cousteau's domain 36 "-Were a Rich 
Man ••• " 
:,1 Card game 41 A~ -· pin 43 Prefix for sphere4"-room 
46 Go on ----(ramble)47 Activists 48 "What's -for 
me?" 50 Part of CPA (abbr.)51 However, for short ~2-U~silon's neighbor 53 Sea eagle54 Curved letter 

TEE FOR TWO. Coif champion Can· P!aver and l\1arch of 
Dimes National Poster Child .'\IPidi'It· Rr~ckington have a 
joint aun-preventron ot htrth dt.'fecb. 


_____________________________________..__ __ 
......-------------------------~­
~ ­

I 
I lfl d
c QSS e 8

I 
I NOTICES I Summer programs -LONDON [wfth
travel In Ireland, Scotland England andI France) and ROME [With travel In 
France, Germany, Switz and Italy], CallI Prof.!lack ~M~~_:________ I Typist will do typing. Neat and accurate. Call 287-5162
I SENIORS Caught in the career crisis?
I 
Seeking students to help manage family I 
business, paid vacations and holidays, profit sharing, possible retirement plan.Call 288-8218, serious inquiries only, noI 
Tel. interviews 
I 
Student Checks Cashed with SMC/ND I 
I. D. Card at Mar-Main Pharmacy, 426 N. Michigan (Park at McDonalds) 
I 
Central Ohio Club-organizational meet­lng Tuesday, Dec. 5, 7:00pm. Lafortune 
I 
I :;::it:e~::;TY TYPING?-Executary-,I Inc. Professional Typing Service 12 type styles $1 page minimum Call 232-0898 
"When you want the Best" 
I 
I MORRISSEY LOAN FUND Teusday, Dec. 12 is the last day to apply for a loan this semester 
I 
I 
I Need a ride? Cali Wilson driveaway. Cars to all major cities. All you pay for is gas. Cars are brand new. For more Information, Call Dan at 1183 
Volunteers needed to work wl'th mentallyI handicapped adults for one half hour or 
hour periods anytime from 10:30 a.m. toI 12:30 p.m. on any weekday. Do you have I ~~n~:~p~~l!d~~ui~ th~e!~i~m~~n~~~ 
I 
or gymnasium. Call Mike at 1371 or Sue 
at 4.1.4832. 
I Government majors: Volunteer needed to 
I 
serve on St. Joe County Committee forI State Budget proposals and legislative action concerning rights and funding for 
I 
developmentally disabled citizens of St. Joe County and the state of Indiana. Call 
Mike at 1371 or Sue at 4-1-4832 
I D.C. Club Christmas Bus Sing up In 
Lafortune Ballroom, 7-9 pm Thurs. Dec.
I 
7 $20 Deposit required Questions, call 
Carl-3311
I 
FOR RENT

1 
"5 Bedroom. Gas heat. Furnished.I Available January 1, 1979. Also accepting applications for 1979-1980 school year.I Lease Required. Call now. 287-1545 
I 
Henry L>e Rouck." 
I 
COME HOME. LEAVE YOUR CAMPUS 
I 
WORRIES BEHIND AND HAVE AN ADDRESS THAT DOESN'T SAY 
I 
''HALL" IN IT. RENT $50 MONTH PLUS UTILITIES._!SS-7690.:_________ Two car garage for rent. Two blocks fromI campus. 2n·3604 
I 
I 
LOST AND FOUND 
I 
Lost: one pair glasses in bright blue and
orange flowered case. If found, please 
I 
call Kathy at 7401 
I 
Lost: Female Great Dane-friendly whiteI with black spots. Any information please call 272-5017 evenings or 237-4038 days.
Reward. 
I 
WANTED

I Babysitter needed 2-3 days a week for 9 month old. Schedule negotiable. Own
I transportation necessary. Scottsdale Mall 
rea. 291-4530. 
· Beach Florida area for Christmas. Willing to share driving and expenses.Call Damian at 1003. 
OVERSEAS JOBS -Summer/full time. Europe, s. America, Austrailia, Asia, etc. All fields, $500-1200 monthly, expensespaid, sightseeing. Free info.-Write: International Job Center, Box 4490-14 
Berkeley, CA 94704 

Desperately need a ride home for Christmas break the Philadelphia vicinity (east on the PA Turnpike.) 1 can leave Wednesday Dec. 20 at 12:30 and I will 
gladly share all expenses and driving.Please call Tom at 1131. 
Need ride to 1. u. Bloomington FridayDec. 9, will share driving and expenses.Call JB,1161. 
Part time delivery help wanted. Must have own· transportation and be able to work weekends, hourly and commision apply in person Milano's Pizza 815 w. 
McKinley alter 4 p.m. 256-1853 
f8~~·~tau~~~:ss~i-~;m:;~~h~c:~~ 
ML to identify and claim 
Babysitter, 15 hrs. week, beginning Jan. for 2 small boys, your home or ours. Patient, nonsmoking, nutririon minded preferred. Univ. holidays 289-9023. 
Needed: riders to L.A. -San Diego area.
Can leave anytime after Dec 18 Call 
John 7820 ·· · 
FOR SALE 

Package "a" Basketball season ticket.
Includes UCLA. Best Offer. Call 4-1-4834. 
1972 Ford Gran Torino, good condition. new tires and battery. Some rust. From $975. 291 ·4530. Between 5 and 7 p.m. 
For Sale: Student basketball ticket. Call 
Sean at 288-2088. Best offer. 
Tired of high prices? Need a shirt for your club or dorm? KEN MAR Inc. hast-shirts
galore at the lowest prices on campus Ken mar has a sales representative on campus to fill all your T-shirt, sweat shirt and jacket needs at the lowest unbeatable 
prices! Contact Anthony Totaro 4684 
For Sale: One full season lower arena student basketball ticket. Call272-7674. 
1972 MG Midget Good condition. 5 Michelin Radial tires. Lugggjj carrier. Spoke wheels. $l400.00 272-1. 
PERSONALS 

Hey Jim-aren't you going to enter Margie in "the search for the hottest lips
on campus" wed. night at 7:00 at Goose's 
Alice-after your birthday _aren't you going to enter the "hottest lips on ~o~r~·~·~t ~:~r Wednesday night at 
Welcome back Joe Gramke _thngs just weren't the same without you! 
Please Note: On Sun. Dec. 4the infamous John Dzimlnskl (I know the name is unbelievable) actually gave someone a
compliment. Of course, this rare mood did not last long and John, joined by some guy named Mike Roohan, soon 
reverted to his usual, mean self. What­ever happened to the sweet guy we called John-boy? 
Do you need two GA tix for tonite's B-ball clash against Rice? moderate price. Call 3087 
Happy Birthday Beth Huffman-2nd floor Regina North 
I Otristmas personals for gala
Ot ·

I nstrras issue on Friday Dec. 8 'Nill be taken until 5:00 p.rn
I 
on Wednesday Dec. 6 at theI Obserwr offim. 
I •f • d d t
I c ass I I Ie a ra es 
I NUMBER OF DAYS 
I 1 l 3 4 5 
I I ~ 
a: 1-10 1.00 1.301.75 2.00 2.25 0 11-15 1.40 1.85 2.50 2.80 3.15I ~ 16-20 1.80 2.40 3.25 3.60 4·05 1 ~ ~!:~~ ~:~ ~:~~ ::~ ::jg ~:~~ 
a: 31·35 3.05 4.10 5.55 6.20 7.20
I ~ 36-40 .3.50 4.70 6.35 7.20 8.25 4145 395 530 715 8 20
1 ~ 46_50 4· · 7·5 ·2 ~i,~5
40 9
• z · 5.90 ·9 ·0 
I DEADLINE. All classified ads must be received by 5:00p.m., two days prior to the issue in which the ad is to run. The Observer office will accf'pt classifieds 
about a disturbance In the foyer of Fit 
Wally's on Friday November 24, 1978, I 
please contact Attorney Charles Lahey 
~. 

. 
------------------I 
DEc. 4th Got Lucky? Contact E.G. Inc. for 
more Information. 
1 

Cathy and Ann, 1 
Now you can't say nobody ever writes you. Me 
I
1 

Hockey fever hits the ACC this Friday and Saturday Be there! I 
To the Herd:: Dear Pat, Rob, Mark, Phil, I 
Jim, Bill Bob, and Bert, You guys are excellent! How could I I possibly have refused eight requests to 
get well? I 
Thank you so-o-o much. Bridge
P.S. (to P.S.) lnterpretatins are free uon I 
I 
request. Notre Dame and Michigan Tech played an unbelievable two-game
IMPORTANT Finance Club Meeting
tonight at 6:30 Hayes-Healy Rom 120 I set this weekend. fPhoto by Ron Szot].

I • h • 1•t t T h 
::Ngt1~\~i~:py~~·[~ei~~~em~i~~~7· don't I r.l s I cers s p I ~ ec. 
P.S. That's l'f you read thl's. I [contm.u.ed fro.m page 121 Ted . Weltzm, who was bemg 
P.S.S. Don't get caught lying down on the remammg m the stanza.. job again! I Notre Dame left all 1ts sloppy play behind in the third period and Jerry-. I climbed back on top with nine 
Enter the girl of your choice In the I minutes to go. Poulin started the search for the hottest lips on campus! Irish comeback with a power play
Goose's at 7:00-Wedndsday night. 
1 goal at 1:07, his second of the Welcome to Commercial Banking night night. Then Jim Brown evened Tuesday Dec. 5at 7:30p.m. Hayes Healy I things up at 6:19 with a powerful Auditorium Reception at Senior Bar I blast from 40 feet out that made it
afterwards Be There! 4-4.
il J ff p h 1 · h th · 
John McGrath· · e erry gave t e ns e1r Never will Ibelieve a word that you say. lead back at 11:07 when he Thanks for the help Friday afternoon. 1 deflected a John Schmidt slap shot 
Jim that sailed over Rockwell's should-
I 

You're the best-at everything! er to make it S-4. ~II five No_tre 01' Brown Eyes I Dame goals scored m regulatmn 
time were by freshmen. 
Happy birthday Maureen-Remember 1 Mel Pearson sent the game into Kinky Sex? . overtime with an uncontested back­__________L_o_ve_._J1_m I hander with five minutes left that Mary Pat, I enabled the H.uskies to tie it S-S. 
Thank you and God bless you for Jeff Brownschidle provided the being--and caring. You're certainly not 1 heroics for the Irish with a power "nobody in particular!" . play goal at S:32 of the overtime 
Your fnend, 1 that gave them their fifth win in a 
Scoop L · 11 d •
1: 

------------~ row. aurlon was ca e on .or Just Have a happy X-mas and a Merry New two saves in the extra 10-minute Year, World (and vice-versa... ) I session while Tech's Rodger Moy 
Scoop got the capacity crowd of 3,S91 -Fe-1-10-w_F_L_O_R-ID-IA_N_S-Im_p_o_rta_n_t_M_e_e-tin-g 1 halfway to th~ir fe~t when he_ hit for those who need rides or riders home the post one mmute mto the pertod, for break. Also to plan upcoming ac-I but that was the closest Tech ever tivites. TUESDAY DECEMBER 57 pm-came. Lafortune upstairs off the ballroom. I 
S t da P u11n H b 

ts T · h K likl B d' k h 1 a ur y: o , ump reys
Connra ns u en IX nows ow t tandln 
to ph a winner! Love, the women next ou 8 g
door, K2 & L2 1 
Notre Dame rookie defenseman INCH, .. . , . I John Cox flew into Houghton an Happy 23rd little Sister! ~a;~.~~.!~! I hour and a half before gametime to 
(HI Squat) · · · · replace the injured Lucia in Satur­1 day's game. With the subsequent Debba-injury to Scott Cameron, his pres-Ya r,ou! Who else has such a name (and I ence became all the more valuable. 
voice.) Weill guess I'm supposed to wish I Michigan Tech got on the score-you a HAPPY BIRTHDAY -have a board first at 11:10 of the first fGeReiE,A,,T day little girl! How does being 20 I period when Pearson scored his 
· ·· j.m. second goal of the series. Pearson1 received a nice pass from Merkosky 
KEITH HElL'S TRAINING STABLES when they caught the Irish on a Horseback riding lessons SMC-ND Quail-I change and skated in on a 2-on-1 fled Instructors/English and Western for the score. 
Semester -11 week maximum $100.1 Organizational meeting January 21st -The "Green Machine" line (so 
2:00 McCandless Plano Room Additional 1 named for their green practice 
information· Call Jo Hell 683-4467 jerseys) of freshmen Dave Poulin, ------------------~ Jeff Perry and Bill Rothstein
HEY HOT LIPS Are you going to GoOie's Wedn8$d;y night at 7:00? Bel bounced back for the Irish when there for the contest. Poulin put a rebound by Rockwell
I right from the doorstep to make it 
HappyBirthdayDennis-afantasticguy. 1-1 after one period.
Love, Little Cuz J With 41 seconds remaining in 
the period, Scott Cameron mis­Be~~ve a Happy l9th Birthday. You·rJ judged a check into the left comer lucky to have such great friends t1 and fell hard into the boards. 
celebrate with. Falling backwards, he hit his head 
Love,l hard and dropped cold to the ice. Patsy, Lauri, and Ann Irish trainer John Whitmer got him I back to his feet with smelling salts, 
Beach Bodies-Are you gay? Why aren't C h f
1:

there any girls in the picture? I but ameron was out 1or t e rest o the game. Both nights Notre Dame Beach Boys, I skated with only five defensemen. Where were we when the flash went Kevin Humphreys provided one off? 1 of the most outstanding individual Rm 001 1 efforts of the season in the second -G-iv-lia-lo-ve_s_S-ha_m_u_s______ period for the Irish, coverini:~ nearly Naomi loves Jeff I every square inch of the ice while Lisa loves Francois, Notre Dame was shorthanded and Tonilovesallmen 1 scoringtwogoalsintheprocess. Katarin loves Bambino Peno. His first came at 1:34 while John
I 

Friedmann was off for interference To Debbie Smith, the cutest slopper the I and h~s seco~d.cameffwith Just one Nor Dining Hall has ever known: I ;econG rem~mmJ· ~ a mce pass kongrtatulationsHon advaOtnhcinbQrthodut of romb reg ere iht' .G d S h d ran of eenager. appy 2 I ay.. 1n etween a11t IS or at1 a See you on the lines! 11 I a power play goal at 3:SO to even MarkP. 1 things up for the Huskies at 2-2 Beth H. while Dave Poulin continued his Happy birthday to a fellow Sagittarian I onslaught on Rockwell with his (and a great assistant night editor). fourth goal of the series at 10:06 to Mark' put the Irish back ahead. The score 
hampered by the flu all game lo~g, was forced to sit out the th1rd period and Brian Burke took his place at cent~r on the first line. Three key Irish skaters were forced to watch th.is stanza out of their 
uniforms. 

John Haddad closed the gap to 4-3 at S:31 when his slap shot rolled in after Laurion had made the 
original pad save, but Notre Dame
d b · ht b k t
seeme to ounce ng ac a 
7:40 when Meredith deflected a 
Steve Schneider pass from the left corner past Rockwell from right out in front of the c~ease .. 
But referee Rich Haigh saw the play differently and came up with a 
fascinating cross-checking penalty on Meredith and disallowed the goal. No explanation was given for this bizarre penalty but it seemed 
obvious that Meredith was too busy deflecting the puck and falling himself to be cross checking any­
body. 
• 
h h d d 

On the ensumg s ort an e situation, Jim Brown prevented a 2-on-1 with a hooking penalty that gave Tech a S-on-3 skating advan-­tage. _To add fuel to the fire,_ St~ve Schne1d~r was called for trlppi.ng after bcmg knocked down tw1ce and held by Rodger Moy in deep Husky territory while a 4-on-2 was b · t d SO " t M 
emg crea e .ee away. oy
ld h · d 9 s th 

w:ou a~e rece~ve a · on e 
dive had 1t been m real water. 
Glenn Merkosky responded on the power play with a ,goal at 9:4S that even.ed t_hin.gs up .4-4 and put 
the Huskies rtght back m the game. Gord Salt put Tech ahead at 16:12 when he took a puck that should have been frozen in the crease and 
put it by Laurion for the go ahead S-4 goalBill Rothstein came right back 
for the Irish with help once again from Perry and Poulin at 17:32 to 
tie it S-S but Merkosky scored the game winner with one minute left when the Irish defense inexcusably 
. . . let h1m skate tn on Laur1on all alone and beat the freshman goalie for the 6-S final. 
Even with John Cox in the 

penalty box _for the final ~6 seconds, t?e lr1sh would not qmt. Dave Poulm took the faceoff from 
deep Notre Dame ice and raced 
down on Rockwell for an excellent shot with three seconds left. The Tech goalie made a remarkable save on the shot from seven feet 
out and stopped Perry on the ensuing rebound with one second left to save the game for the Huskies 
· · • fr d · 

Pouhn s ustrate expression as the buzzer sounded told the whole story. It was a tough way to lose a 
game. "We played better overall Sat­urday than we did Friday,.. said 
Irish coach Lefty Smith. "But it was unfortunate that we got some penalties at bad times. This series 
wasadefinitechallengeanditwas still pleasing to win one here. "The fact that five freshmen 
scored our first fiv; goal~ ;ri~ay 
;a; v~ry etco~rag1fig. d a ~r ah 
? n ox p aye wed uHn er houg
circumstances, an ump reys and Poulin both played an out­standing series. Ofcoursethe loss 
of Weltzin, Lucia and Cameron did not help us either." Lucia is doubtful for this week's home series against Wisconsin, 
\ Monday through Friday, 10:00 a.m. to 5:00p.m. heading into the third period was while Cameron and Weltzin should 
.._____ --------~••••H••..••••" 4-2 in Notre Dame's favor. both be back in action. 

-





------------------------------------------------------------------------------.. 
' 
i 
I 
! 
1....2...__t.s.~h~8s_.O::r.....l!llb~SLli8IE.IrvL...L.llaK..IIr_____M_on_d_a_y,_December 4, 1978 
Phelps' cagers .impressive ~ i' in season-opening triumph 
l 
by Ray O'Brien shots failed to break Valpo's zone A satisfied Phelps echoed his Sports Editor defense. prize sophomore's evaluation. "You can only go with a zone so •'With our first game under our 
Valparaiso University stayed 

long," admitted Rochlitz. "We belt, I can say its good to start the close for the first 16 minutes of went from a 1-3-1 to a 2-3 but they season," Phelps commented. "We Notre Dame's season opener be­started finding holes in it. We just accomplished a lot of things we 
fore the Irish ended the half with 

couldn't match up with ND's size wanted to. We're trying to pick upi ten unanswered points en route to a 
and don't have that much depth." the flow we left off with last year.~-87-57 tromp Saturday at the ACC. Orlando Woolridge and Kelly We're going to play people the way The Crusaders came out running 
Tripuka worked the inside lanes in we did today and wear people down with a hot hand from the outside as 
the first stanza while point guard until we get the lead." Nolan Petties. Jeff Simm~ns and 
Rich Branning hit from the outside 

Phelps continued. •'we weren't
South Bend native Val Martin leading all scorers with eight 

hiding anything today. We used 80 
scored quickly giving Valpo a 10-7 Notre Dame a 21-9
points. held 

percent of our system because we
edge with five minutes gone in the rebounding edge at the half which 

have to expose our young players to 
contest. 
told the tale of their 41-28 lead. 

the system. Flowers is the only
Notre Dame grabbed the lead for The Irish overcame first game 

player thats been around for three
good when Stan "Silky" Wilcox 
jitters and shut down the 
years."
replaced starter· Bill Hanzlik and 

Crusader's attack in the second hit two eight-footersl giving the half while the offense began to jell. Notre Dame held Valpo to one Irish a 13-12 lead they were never With almost ten minutes elapsed shot each time down in the second to relinquish. half and began to run. The Irish
into the finaJ stanza, Bill Hanzlik 

shot 52 percent from the floor and
"I think-· Wilcox changed the made two steals resulting in layups shots.
momentum our· way when he came and ND went on to score 14 straight made good on 9-11 foul 
Tracy Jackson shared scoring
in and hit those outside shots that points breaking out to a 67-40 lead. 
honors with Ctusada~rs Martin and
gave us back the lead," plauded "We went into the game hoping 

Simmons with 16. Branning. voted
Irish head coach Digger Phelps. · to hold them under 60 points and 
star of the game, hit 6-9 from the
K~n Rochlitz' team stayed close, we did," commented Kelly Tripuka 
floor and was perfect on two free
, down 31-28, when Notre Dame's afterwards. The sophomore stand­
throws for 14 points. Tripuka
fast \break caught them a step out bounced back from a horrid 
chipped in 13 markers while grab­
behi~d. The Crusaders never performance against the Russians. 
bing a game high nine rebounds.

bounFed back from the half ending "I don't even want to thi-nk about 
'• We got rid of our first game
blitz ~s Rochlitz commented, "We that game. I felt good today and 
jitters," concluded Phelps. "Our
got off to a good start because of shot S-8, so I was satisfied,'' said 
next two games against Rice and
our press. We haven't pressed that Tripuka. •'I thought we put out a 
Northwestern will work us into the
mucH this year because we're not good team effort. I didn't feel any 
flow to prepare for UCLA at Pauley
that ~uick,so I was surprised that it pressure out there. Someone will Pavillion.
· was somewhat effective." have to pick up the scoring slack 
Rice University comes to the
Notre Dame relied on a balanced left from Batton ·and Williams' 
ACC Monday night with tipoff set
attack at the outset as they went to graduation. Some; days it will be for 8 p.m. EST.
the it~side game when the outside me but anyone cani do it." 
; 
Fall to second 

Irish icers split at Tech 
by Brian Beglane battle. two minutes later when BiB Roth­Sports W rlter The weekend split stopped the stein was stopped on a partial Irish win streak at five to give them breakaway. 
HOUGHTON, Mich. • Like a an 8-3-1 record and moves them But the Irish lost key defense­depleted and worn out army leav­back to second place, ·one point man Don Lucia in the first two ing the battlefield, the Notre Dame behind Minnesota. The Gophers minutes when he strained liga­hockey team left here Sunday swe'pt Michigan this weekend 8-3 ments in his left knee. He sat out morning after having waged a and 10-5. Michigan Tech's record the rest of the series while John 
~ tough and closely fought weekend now stands at 6-4-2 in the WCHA, Cox replaced him Saturday.
.
.1\. -battle with the Huskies of Michigan 8-4-2 overall. Jeff Logan gave the Irish a 1-0 ,. Tech. The result of the Friday­first period advantage at 7:31 when 
• Saturday battles was a draw--a 6-5 Friday: Brownschidle's goal linemates Tom Michalek and 
·~ 
Irish overtime victory Friday night in OT wins it Kevin Humphreys teamed to set 
followed by· a 6-5 Tech triumph him up with a wide open net for his ,' Saturday. Notre Dame started skating Fri­fourth goal of the year. Tech hit 1)-had 21 points. Junior Kelly Hicks But the key to Tech's win in the day night like it had lead in its the post once but could not find the
)' by Mark Hannuksela 
.~ chipped in with nine.i -second game of the se'ries came in skates. The Huskies flew all over net, as Laurion ended the period
· Sports Writer

£ At Valpo, the Irish desplayed ,the form of its third period allies-­the Irish zone the first minute and with 12 saves while Rockwell made ;~ Despite an ungodly amount of balanced scoring. Freshman Jan referees Rich Haigh and Duane only the brilliant goaltending of seven. t />-turnovers, the Notre Dame Schlaff sported a .583 sho~ting Markus. However they did it, Dave Laurion kept the score from Glen Merkosky and Dave Joelson 
women's basketball team out­percentage on seven of 1 2 from the Haigh and Markus 'literally gave being 2-0 Tech. Poor Notre Dame gave Tech a 2-1 lead with goals in
·" ~ 
scored Valparaiso 74-56, to gain a field, and wound up with 14 points. the game to Tech in the third passing and good MTU forecheck­the first 10 minutes but Irish
-t~ 
f 
split in its activity for the week. On Junior co-captain Molly Cashman period , with four Notre Dame ing had Laurion's head spinning forward Dave Poulin, who played Tuesday, the girls lost tc; a very tall scored 13 and the other co-captain, penalties, three of them within a the first 40 seconds, but he an outstanding series, evened and very physical University of Carol Lally, had 12. Sharon Jack ·span of 1:20 that enabled the responded with five key saves, things up three minutes later with 
Illinois club, 81-60. from Valpo was the only Crusader Huskies to pull back. three from point blank range while his first of four goals in the series.
t 
ln double figures, taking game All this occurred in a period sprawled on the ice. Gord Salt put the Huskies backFriday night's contest at Valpo
~ scoring honors with 16 points. when the Irish were without first Notre Dame' shook the lead out of on top at 16:32 and Doug Yeung
was a nightmare for both clubs. 

~ In the rebounding· department, line center Ted Weltzin and stal­their skates and woke up after that, made the score ~-2 after two
Notre Dame had a total of 45 

~ freshman Tricia McManus col­wart defensemen Don Lucia and giving Tech goaltender John periods with a goal with 11 seconds
turnovers. and' Valpo had 42 more. 

J·ected nine caroms. Lally. Cash­Scott Cameron, all victims of the Rockwell his first test of the game rcontinued on page 11]A total ofSO fouls was called during man, and Politiski each contributedthe game, and together the teams eight more. Valpo's Mary Bohning were 26-54 from the foul line. 
led her team with ten reboundsCoach Sharon Petro could only 

Dillon· takes campus crown
while Aileen Buckley added eight.

laugh at the contrasting games her Saturday, the girls will travel to 'girls ha~ just put back-to-hack. 
by Ray O'Brien Neither team mounted much of and Keenan beat them."
Huntington, Ind., for the Hunting­"You: know, Tuesday night we 


Sports Editor an offensive threat thereafter as On their offensive attack headton Tournament. For the secondjust played so well against Illinoise, week in a row, the -team will meet Not rain, nor sleet, nor storm, defenses prevailed in the two coach Dick Hughes commented,satted the second-year coach. "but nor Keenan could stop unbeaten inches of slush covering the field. "We played against some pretty 
we lost. Last night we played . Valpo, as well as Huntington and Tri-State University. They will Dillon in its bid for the Interhall Penalties kept Dillon from scoring good defenses this year and were 
poorly, but we won by 18 points. I 
again as Brian Crowley made good able to.move the ball running up
Football Championship Sunday.
then return home for a clash withthink what hurt us most was that The Big Red relied on a first on another pass, but the TD was the middle so we stuck to that. WeSMC on Monday, December 9, inwe were a little too anxious. We quarter touchdown and a third called back due to offensive hold­thought our line was strong enoughthe ACC.

rushed things at times, which we 

quarter safety to roll to a 10-0 ing. The Big Red offense got inside ,lo move the ball and throw some really shouldn't have done." Houston, 49-25 victory on a slush-covered Cartier Keenan's 20-yard line in the third short passes. But I thought 
That 21-point loss to Illinois Field. quarter, but got pushed backwards Keenan's defense was very good, which Petro referred to was decep­by Associated Press ' Both teams went to their running due to more penalties. especially their linebackers." tive. With about nine minutes left 
Ho1• -;ton shruggeci> off five first­games as the weather prohibited an The game was put out of reach Dillon was awarded the "Gary 
in the game, the Irish were only half fumbles to defeat Rice as accurate passing attack. Dillon's late in the third quarter when Scott Dunn Thomas Memorial Cup,'' a down by seven points. A sudden backup quarterback Delrick Brown defense contained Keenan's Buchanan sacked quarterback • trophy donated in the name of rash of turnovers then infected the ran 5 yards for one touchdown and sweep, relying on early blitzing George Broderick in the end zone Thomas, a Keenan student that · girls, . resulting in easy Illinois passed 19 to Hubert Miller for from its linebackers. for the safety and a 10-0 lead. died of Hodgkins disease last year. 
buckets. The lllini then coasted the The Trophy, awarded to ''the
another. The .Cougars also got an Dillon ran up the middle and "We knew Keenan would run a rest of the way. SO-yard TD dash from Emmett threw short to move the ball, but lot of sweeps and off tackle," outstanding intramural team," will Although Illinois was taller than King and a 17-yard scoring pass both teams' offenses lack elf the explained Buchanan. "They be presented every year with its counterparts in every position, from starting quarterback Danny consistency necessary in putting weren't known for an overpowering Keenan having won it the first Notre Dame still managed to out Davis to Willis Adams. together a tong drive. Instead, offense and the slush really limited three years. rebound the lllini, 40-36. Junior But the game decided nothing ·Dillon got its bread on a short-out their sweep and passing attack Dillon's championship team fin­Jane Politiski led the way in this since Texas Tech had already lost, pass from Brian Crowley to Dana when they tried to come back.'' ishes the season. with a 6-0 record, 
catagory, pulling down nine boards. putting Houston in the Cotton Bowl Crowley, who broke three tackles Buchanan and the rest of the allowing only one touchdown on the Senior Carol Lally and junior Pat for the second time since it joined and raced 6S yards for the only TD Diltonites were wary of Keenan's year. Only two seniors will be Meyer each added five rebounds to the Southwest Conference in 1976. of the afternoon. A successful size. "I was surprised they were so graduating from this year's start­the cause. Grabbing scoring The Cougar<-will meet Notre Dame two-point conversion attempt left big," Buchanan commented. "St. ing lineup, marking Dillon's win as 
.\ 
honors for the Irish was Lally, who on New Year's Da~. the score 8-0 at the half. Ed's was the biggest team we faced possibly only a beginning. 
,, 
I 
i. 
~ 
-I • 

. . 
Irish women top Valpo 




