-~--~ -------~~~-­

server .. 
an independent student newspaper serving notre •me 01nd st• m01ry's
Vol. XII, No. 73 
Wednesday, February 1, 1978 

Marks links trustee to CIA activities 
by Gregory Solman such activity, collated largely by his co-author, Victor Marchetti, who 
A Notre Dame Board of Trustees was a CIA operative for 17 years: member fronted for an illegal CIA --In an attempt to discredit the operation, according to Paul Chinese in African eyes, the CIA, Marks, CIA critic, who spoke last in the early 60's produced and night before an overflow crowd at distributed thousands of "Chair­the Library Auditorium. man Mao Buttons." The buttons 
The Trustee, Marks claimed. were treated with chemicals that was president of the Board of would cause the wearers' clothes to Trustees for the CIA-operated disintegrate. Marks said this .was Anderson Security Consultants an attempt to inspire African (ASC) firm. This firm placed hatred toward the Chin€:se, but domestic anti-war and civil rights added, "It might actually be activists under surveillance. Marks amusing at a party." also said he was spied upon by --In 1962 and 1963, the CIA ASC. supported militant Uruguayan 
Marks who co-authored ''The right-wing activists who bombed CIA and the Cult of Inteliigence," churches there. Evidently, the CIA the first American book to be was attempting to prompt Uruguay censored before publication, also to break diplomatic relations with alleged that the CIA waged a Cuba, Marks noted. It was hoped "secretwar" in Laos; the FBI was that the church bombings would be engaged in activities aimed at blamed on Cuban-associated disrupting the Civil Rights Move­radicals. Instead, Marks claimed, ment; and. at various universities, the military stepped in to control the CIA wa.s involved--in drug the activity. This military interven­experimentation and in hiring tion replaced a democracy, and it certain professors to seek out has remained under military possible foreign spies. control, he continued. 
Marks talked of the CIA ''schizo­"The CIA has adopted a policy of phrenic" personality, in which one 'the ends justify the means'," _John Marks, prominent CIA critic, alleged among other things, that a Notre Dame Board of side is devoted to what he termed explained Marks. ''and if that Trustees member fronted for an illegal surveillance activity. [Photo by Bill Reifsteck] the "proper function" that is, means supporting the bombing of one time that Congress did attempt turned in and· eliminated because 
After the film, Marks quoted Dr. 

gathering information and churches ... " to intervene in the army-raising the natives chosen to seek out the Henry Kissinger to point out "the 
intelligence. Although he claimed The audience was then shown a activity, the film showed how the sympathizers often brought in American fm;-eign polic) mind­this is "completely legitimate." he British film on CIA covert activity CIA, in 1971, instead stepped up "people that owed-them money or set." added, "maybe for six billion in Laos. where. the film contends, their Thai Army from 5,000 to with whom they were having a Citing The New York Timesas his 
dollars we should expect better the CIA waged a "secret war". In 20,000 men. family fight." reference, Kissinger supposedly results." Loas, the CIA organized its own The film also described "Opera­William Colby, former CIA direc­said, "I don't see why we need to The main thrust of his lecture, army and arranged "air strike tion Phoenix," a CIA-inspired plot tor, before a House Committee, stand by and watch Communism however, dealt with the other side forces" using Thailand borrowed . to eliminate communist sympathi­said that "many might have been take over a country because of the of the CIA's personality-the side bombers in 1966,according to the zers at the grass roots level. innocent, probably the majority." irresponsibility of it's own people," who's activities have come to be film. However, claimed the film, little Finally, the film cited Richard Marks quoted. This is the known as "dirty tricks." It was two years before this was collaboration was made on the Nixon's administration use of the comment with which Marks and Marks listed some examples of exposed in September, 1969. The arrests, and many civilians were CIA to cause riots and disrupt Marchetti had chosen to start their society in Chile, in an attempt to book. It was deleted whenSalt bath responsible force then-President Salvador censored, therefore Marks was Allende from power. The film forced to quote Tbe New York maintained that a prolonged strike, Times rather than his own book, he 
caused by the CIA-backed said. opponents of Allende, spelled Marks suggested the 
Fire cause d'etermined 
by Maureen Flynn ture of 363 degrees centigrade (685 dropped into the cabinet below' he overthrow for Allende. 
[continued on page 4]

Editorials Editor degrees Fahrenheit) -for over a continued, causing the fire to year'' apparently dried out the spread.Notre Dame Fire Inspector Jack wood of the laboratory bench on "It was a process taking a period 
Student Union announces 
Bland said yesterday that the cause which it was standing. of time to develop," Bland said. of last Saturday's fire in the ''After a while a decomposition Bland noted that there are only 
Seeger, Foghat concerts
chemical engineering building has process began,'' the fire inspector "three or four" of the high­been "pretty well nailed down." said, "and finally the wood under­temperature baths in use in the 
Bland said a "high-temperature neath the bath ignited." Embers country. "We have no real by Chris Datzman Stepan for student enjoyment with salt bath operating at a tempera-from the fire on top of the lab bench experience with them," he said. no regard to profit. Speier said in The bath is used to test the Despite rumors of concert ap­the past such notables as Billy Joel, 
reactions of materials to prolonged pearances by Bruce Springsteen, Robert Klien and Seals and Crofts 
high temperatures. Barry Manilow and the Eagles, have appeared. This spring Speier 
Dr. Daniel Pasto, supervisor of only two spring semester concerts is trying to line up Steve Goodman the experiment, met with Bland are presently booked. or Don McClean of "American yesterday morning to discuss and According to Jim Speier, Student Pie" fame. 
analyze the fire. He was less Union concert commissioner, only "We really don't have a whole positive about the cause of the fire, Foghat and Bob Seeger are defi­lot of choice in the groups we can but said, "We'll run tests on the nitly booked for Notre Dame per­get," remarked Speier. "Since heating controls on the bath to formances. Foghat is scheduled for most groups plan their big tours make sure they're working prop­February 27 and Bob Seeger for over the summer, they usually 
erly. Ifeverything is okay, then the April 24 during An Tostal. begin booking for May just when There still remain two more we're getting out of school." 
fire was probably caused by a 
gradual charcoaling of the wood dates that the ACC is reserved by Ending his second year as con­underneath the bath." Student Union for concerts. One cert commissioner, the junior Fin­Pasto said there was not as much date, April 7, was originally taken ance major has brought well over a damage as he had feared, but by Bruce Springsteen. The appear­dozen rock concerts to the Notre 
added its extent could not be 
ance was tentative, however, and Dame campus. "'le explained that assessed until the electrical equip­when Springsteen recently cancel­there is somewhat of a risk involved ment had been checked out. led his entire tour, the date was left in deciding what groups to book. 
Much of the damage to the open. "For instance, I didn't think that third-floor laboratory and the floors Speier commented that the April Bob Seeger was all that popular below was done by water from the 7 date may be filled by Jackson around this area, so before 
automatic sprinkler system. Bland Browne. "Though he isn't booked confirmed the date I took a couple credited the system with yet it looks like a really good days to check it out,'' explained extinguishing most of the fire. He possibility," said Speier. Speier. "I talked to several 
explained that "any alteration of Other possible groups that students who all expressed interest pressure" in the sprinkler system Speier is investigatmg to fill in a and then I called WRBR and some automatically trips fire alarms at March 15 date include Dan Fogel­record stores. I found out that both the Notre Dame firehouse and berg, Marshall Tucker and Fleet­Seeger has almost the number one 
the South Bend Fire Department. wood Mac. None of the groups has album in the area. They all thought Pasto said he expects to continue given any definite answer. that it would be a sell-out," he with his research, although "it may Speier is also looking for smaller concluded. take three or four months to rebuild groups to perform in Stepan After checking on all the ,sources 


Fire Inspector jack Bland explained the probable cause of last and set-up the apparatus. We'll Center. The Student Union, in including Columbia records, Speier 
Saturday's fire in the chemical engineering building. [PI~oto by have to modify the bench,'' he conjunction with Social Commis­booked Seeger for the An Tostal · Bill. Reifsteck] added. · · • · · • · sion, sponsorS: .these concerts in concert. 


,_News Briefs-------.... 
J:=::::::::::::::::::::::======================World OPEC members to meet 
GEVENV A, Switzerland • Five members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries will meet here today to try to solve their long-standing and sometimes bitter quarrels over price scales for different qualities of crude oil. The sums of money involved are small, but dampening the acrimony that has developed on occasion among OPEC countries is important to the group as it seeks a role as political leader of the Third World. An Iranian delegate said he expected the five countries, which comprise a subcommittee of the 13-nation organization, to solve OPEC's differences. 
t====:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=:::::::::::::::::::::===== National 

Bodyguard's pay high 
WASillNGTON • Joseph Califano's sometime bodyguard is probably the second highest-paid employee of the federal government. Thomas Lemuel Johns earns $47,025 as administra­tive officer and security coordinator for Califano, the secretary of HEW. Johns also gets monthly pension checks that total $31,200 a year for his 21 years with the Secret Service, including a stint as President Lyndon B. Johnson's chief bodyguard, according to officials fo the District of Columbia pension system. His combined checks are less than President Carter's $200,000 salary. But, they total more than the $66,000 that Califano and other Cabinet members earn yearly and more even than Vice President Walter Mondale's $75,000. 


WEATHER 
A winter storm watch was issued for this afternoon and evening. Cloudy this morning with a 60 percent chance of light afternoon snow and highs in the upper teens. There is a 70 percent chance of more snow, possibly heavy at times, tonight with lows near 10. Cloudy tomorrow with light snow ending tomorrow morning and highs in the upper teens. 


,.On Campus Today_~ 
1:15pm lecture, "corporate financial planning," thomas a. ronzetti, vp corporate planning chase-manhatten, rm. 122 hayes-healy. 
2:20pm workshop, "we've been to the mountain," a workshop on redlining, gregory f. opelka, exec. vp fairfield sayings and loan assoc., rm. 122 hayes­healy. 
3:25 pm seminar, "experimental and modeling aspects in polymer reaction molding," prof. christopher w. macosko, u. of minn., rm. 269 chem. engr. bldg., sponsored by chem. engr. dept. 
3:30pm seminar, "bias in fluid velocities determined from suspended particle velocities," thomas v. giel, engine test facility aro, inc., rm. 303 engr. bldg., sponsored by aerospace & mechanical engr._ 
5-6:30 pm sign up for wednesday night fasting, north and south dining halls. 
6:30 pm meeting, nd sailing club, rm. 204 engr. bldg., new members welcome 
... 
• 7 pm mardi gras dealer's school, zahm 
7, 9, 11 pm talk, "justice & and government," prof. john hospers, galvin aud. 
8:15pm recital, becky stauffer, soprano, mem. lib. aud., sponsored by music dept.i public invited. 
8:30pm mardi gras dealer's school, alumni 
9:15pm mardi gras dealer's school, farley 
10:00 pm mardi gras dealer's school, lewis 
thursday morning 
11:00 am lecture, "corporate takeovers: reasons for and consequences of today's bidding contests," john mcdonough, vp & chief financial officer, blout, inc., rm. 122 hayes-healy. 

Engineering b-ball 
The Observer Is published Mon­
dey through Frldey except during 
Engineering students interested
exem end VIICJitlon periods. Tl)e Observer Is published by the 
in forming teams for the Engineer­
students of Notre Deme end Selnt 
ing Basketball League should place 
Mery's College. Subscriptions 
the name and phone number of the 
mey be purdlesed for UO per yeer CS I o per semester) from The 
team captain in the Joint Engineer­
Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre 
ing Council mailbox in Room 23
Deme, lndlene 4U56. Second 
(Xeroxing tne Mail Room) of the
dess post..• peld, Notre Deme, lndlene, 46556. 
Engineering Building by Friday,
The Obaerver Is e member of 
Feb. 3. For further information call 
the Anocleted Pre11. All repro. ductlon rilhta ere reaervld. 
Ted Slaughter (1784) or Warren Hughes (8583). 
/
f: 

Some people have strange pets! [Photo by Bill Reifsteck] 


Scientists discover life forms inside rQCks from Antarctica 
· ·...of planetary biology, said that if 

filters out excessive solar radiation. 
WASHIN~TON[AP]·An . abun-Martian life exists only in the Friedmann said he examined one ~a~ce of hfe has been dtscoyered interior of rocks, • 'the design of the 
life-bearing rock when the airms1de rocks from a barren regton of spacecraft would be influenced temperature was about 14 degreesAntarctica-a surprising finding that accordingly. 
Farenheit and the rock surfacecould chan~e the way scientists "For example, we would search about 28 degrees. At the layer ofsear~h for hfe on. Mars. out specific rock types and design a life a quarter inch below theD1~covery of mtcrobes, algae and sampler which can open such rocks surface, it was SO degrees, cozy for fung1. undern~ath the .surface of and provide subsurface samples these types of organisms. 
certam rocks m Antarctica, one of which can be examined for life During the winter, when temper­e~rt~' s harshest environments, forms and organic molecules," atures drop to 60 below zero "and
~~g~nficantly extend~ the known Young said. 
the wind-chill factor is incredible," 
hmtts of hfe on th1s planet and The Friedmanns have looked for he said, the life forms becomeoffers new hope that some form of life inside rocks for more than 15 dormant and wait for warmerlife. may exist o~ d~solate neigh-years an"M earlier succeeded in periods to begin functioning again. 
bonng worlds, sc1ent1sts say. finding living cells inside rocks Friedmann said there is evidence 
. 'Ih.e National Science Foundation from hot desert areas of America, the Dry Valleys were
once more 
and--the National Aeronautics and Asia and Africa. ­hospitable to life forms and prob­Space Administration, cosponsors Friedmann said in an interview ably supported surface life. But as of the Antarctic research, that in 1975, he found a layer of conditions worsened, organisms·announced the findings yesterday. blue-green algae inside a Dry began to withdraw and seek placesE. Irme Friedmann and Roseli Valleys rock sent him by a friend. 
where they could live. 

Ocampo Friedmann, a husband-"But we didn't know if this was wife team of biologists from Florida widespread and common, or if it 
STUDY IN

State University at Tallahassee, was a freak case,'' Friedmann said. found life in light-colored rocks In two subsequent expeditions to 

GUADALAJARA. MEXICO 
from Antartica's Dry Valleys Antarctica, the Friedmanns 
The GUADALAJARA SUMMER SCHOOL.
region, a frigid, arid area mostly brought back 600 pounds of rocks 
. 1. fully accredited UNIVERSITY OF 
devoid of ice and snow. and found that a dark, greenish 
ARIZONA program. offers July 3­
Similar, but more extreme, con-layer of life existed inside semi­
Auguatll. anthropology. art. bilingualditions were found on Mars by two translucent rocks where sunlight 
education. folklore. ~I story. political American Viking spacecraft, which penetrates several millimeters 
science. Spanish l1ng'uage and litera· in 1976 searched unsuccessfully for deep. 
lure. intensive Spanish. Tuition: $245: conclusive signs of microbial life. The thin, surface layer of rock 
board and room with Mexican family: But the unmanned craft were not not only traps heat and minute 
$285. For brochure: GUADALAJARA designed to crack open rocks and amounts of moisture but it also 
SUMMER SCHOOL. Alumni 211. Univ.-aity of Arizona. Tucaon. Arizona
peek inside. protects the organisms from' the 
85721. (6021 884-4729.

RichardS. Young, NASA's chief harsh outside envinronment and 

~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Free University 


Notre Dame ~
registration reset 
Registration for Free University has been rescheduled for next Wednesday and Thursday at La­


Kara·te &

Fortune Ballroom from 8:30 a.m. until 4:30 p.m. . Classes will start as scheduled. 

TaeKwonDo 

GMA T's reset 



Club

The Jan 28 GMAT test has been 
rescP.~duled for Feb. 11. Examine­
INVITES ALL MEMBERS OF THE NOTRE DAME
es will be contacted by the Educa­tional Service. 
ST. MARY'S COMMUNITY INTERESTED IN BE· GINNING THE STUDY OF KARATE AND SELF DEFENSE TO ATTEND AN
*The Observer 
introductory meeting at the
Night Editor: Bob Brink 

Asst. Night Editor: Kathy Mills 

A.C.C. (Auxiliary Gym) 

layout Staff: Anne (with an e) Bever, Lenore Koczon 
on. 

Features Layout: Dom Salemi Sports Layout: Paul Stevenson 

Thursday, February 2 at 6.00pm.
Typists: Mark Rust, Beth Riz­zo, Mary Jo Cushing 
ALSO, PERSONS WITH PRIOR EXPERIENCE IN
Early Morning Typist: me Day Editor: Maribeth Moran 
THE MARTIAL ARTS ARE ENCOURAGED TO TRY 
Copy Reader: Joan Remeau 
OUT FOR THE NEWLY FORMED INTER-COL• 

Ad Layout: Matt De Salvo 
LEGIATE TEAM. 

Photographer: Bill Reifsteck FUGB . 
~ ~ 
-----.......-----~--,_,_._ 
--~­
--~---~ 

Wednesday, February 1, 1978 
the observer 
3 
Gras rules are explained. The by David Brehl Dealer's School will be held ineach residence hall this week. Sched­

Despite the effects of last week's ules have been posted.
blizzard,Mardi Gras festival will be Although booth construction isready to begin as scheduled this now progressing without majorFriday_ evening at Stepan Center, difficulties, Mardi Gras committeeaccordmg to Mardi Gras committee members are a bit disappointed atchairman Dan Haugh. 
the slow rate of returns coming in "Everybody had -a little trouble 

from the raffle tickets which were getting the construction materials distributed to students before se­for their booths, thanks to the deep mester break. "The raffle is the 
snow," Haugh said "No stores biggest moneymaker for Mardi were even open until today. But Gras,", said Rosemary Serbent of we're all making a concentrated the raffie committee. "We're ex­
effort, and we"ll have the work tremely; dissatisfied with the way
done before Friday night.'' sales are it's
ticket going--and 

Mardi Gras is .a nine-day casino­the students who are responsible." type fund-raising e'~l!nt, sponsored Anne Marie Calucci, who is also by the Notre Dame and St. Mary's helping . to coordinate the raffle, Hall Presidents Councils. All pro­added, "The raffle is really the ceeds go to Notre Dame Charities, most important part of Mardi Gras which in turn allocates the money It's up to the student body to make to local organizations it a success." 
Students may play blackjack, Only two-thirds of the residence high-low, poker and other games of halls of ND-SMC have returned chance at booths constructed by money from ticket sales; and pairs of men's and women's resi­among those, Jess than twenty 
Because last week's blizzard slowed down Mardi Gras construction, students are working hard to dence halls. To get around Indiana percent of the tickets distributed to 
complete their booths for the festival. [Photo by Kevi11 Walsh] · state gambling laws, the festival them have been sold. sells "bogus bucks" for the stu­Students have two incentives to dents to gamble with, which are selling tickets, Servent said. First, then turned in again for cash. those who sell all the tickets in their 


Guerillas reject B~ritish authority 
Mardi Gras coordinator Tim book have their names placed in a Mallow pointed out that any stu­drawing for a 1978 Ford Pinto, and dent can work at his or her hall's second, are given free admission to booth, provided he attends a the festival. The normal admission 
for Rhodesian po1wer transfer 
"Dealer's School" where Mardi cost will be $2 a night. 
RABAT*Malta [AP]-Biack guerilla ed full legal independence by ment in Kenya in the late 1950's. 
leaders said yesterday they want to Britain. Previously the Patriotic The two black leaders demand share power with Britain during Front had insisted that the one that, as leaders of the only military Rhodesia's transition to black ma­man, one vote ballot take place forces fighting the white Rhode­
ND Hunger Coalition
jority rule and rejected a proposal after the country assumes black sian regime, they be allowed to for a British commissioner to head rule as the new state of Zimbabwe, share control in the interim an interim government. They the nationalists' name for Rho­government. claimed he would have dictatorial desia. In Rhodesia, Bishop Able Mu­

seeks student tasters 
powers. British spokesman Hamilton zorewa, the moderate black leader Meanwhile, in Salisbury. mod­Whyte said "very considerable ·who walked out of the informal by Todd Starich. "Last semester, 650 students erate black leaders agreed to differences" remained between the talks with Smith's regime last participated and we collected close met to $6,000," Froehlke stated.
resume informal talks with the two sides. These differences, Friday, with white leaders He
The Hunger Coalition will again
according to Whyte and U.S. Tuesday, and said a government added that Saga will pay 75 centstoday the
white government on sponsor Wednesday evening fasts 
framework for a one man. one vote delegation spokesman Stoney spokesman, "differences over the for each meal given up by a
this semester. and interested stu­
constitution. Cook. focus on the military and offensive language which led to the registered faster. One-fourth of
dents can pick up information and 
Robert Mugabe and Joshua ·political implications of a cease-fire walkout were resolved." the proceeds go to agencies which
pledge forms in the dining halls
in the war between Smith'swhite­administer to the hungry of South 
Nkomo. co-leaders of the Patriotic Officials in Rhodesia said little starting today. Pledge forms can 
Front. said at the Malta meeting led forces and the bl~ck guerrillas. attention ~ being paid to the Bend, and three-fourth!> go to simi­
be deposited in boxes located at 
that they opposed the British Under the Anglo-American plan, Malta talks. lar agencies which work overseas.
dining hall exits through next these are the
Among servicesAmerican plan for Field Marshal Carver would be empowered to Tuesday.

Lord Carver to head an interim make Jaws, -control the police, local Justice and Peace Center,
According to Robert Froehlke,
command 111:he armed'· forces and Care, OXFAN, the Catholic Relief
government from the day Prime SU announces dining hall coordinator for
preside over the disarming and the Services, and the Church WorldMinister Ian Smith leaves office Hunger Coalition, fasting will be­Services. "We've researcheduntil Rhodesia is legally recognized reduction. of both Smiths' forces spring semester gin next Wednesday and continue 
as being an independeilt state by and the guerrillas. these agencies and they are the 
on subsequent Wednesdays least
Britain. Rhodesia unilaterally de­The Patriotic Front said this .movie schedule through May 3, with the exception ones with the overhead. ·• clared its indept~ndencc from Bri­would give Carver dictatorial Froehlke said. 
Student Union has announced its ofMarch 22. 
powers. Besides providing neededtain in 1965. 
movie schedule for the semester: Although food services are now peared to move toward the Anglo of their plan to U.S. Ambassador Silver Streak, Feb. 6, 7; The Deep run by Saga, the procedure will be gram is to develop an awareness of 
But Mugabe and Nkomo ap­Mugabe and Nkomo gave copies money, another goal of the pro­
Feb. 17.18; Pink Panther Strikes similar to previous semesters. 
American position on the issue of Andrew Young and British Foreign with switch a hunger and have students experi­
Again, Feb. 2~.24: However. the to ence what
holding cbuntry wide elections Secretary David Owen Monday Dog Day After­for a moment some 
noon, Mar. 8,9; Bobby Deerfield, ·computerized checklist, meal ticket others must experience continu­IJefore-not after-Rhodesia is grant-night, but it was discussed for the Mar. 10.11; Play•it Again, Sam, numbers belonging to fasters will
first time yesterday. allv. 
Mar. 14.15: Annie Hall, Mar. be programmed into the con~puter.
Although the black leaders said Wednesday evening masses forJuniors to pose rejecting the Anglo-American plan 30,31; The Sound of Music, Apr. These numbers will then become fasters will also be held, usually at 
1,2; Marathon Man, Apr. 7,8; West invalid on Wednesday evenings. 
would be "too negative an action" Walsh Hall at 5:15p.m.for yearbook they have' refused to call a cease­Side Story, Apr. 11; Camelot, Apr. Froehlke added that if a faster Froehlke also promised that 
12; Singing in the Rain, Apr. 13; A decides to eat dinner on a Wednes­
.Juniors scheduled to have their fire in their five year guerrilla war. "none of the Wednesday nights are 
Star ls Born, Apr. 14,15; The day, he will be allowed to do so, but
pictures taken for the senior year­Mugabe said Carver would not going to be special meals." 
Enforcer, Apr. 19,20; Wizards, he will then become ineligible for
book yesterday or today may make be acceptable as resident commis­For additional information call 
Apr. 21,22; and The Spy Who the fasting program for the re­
new appointments in the lobby of sioner because he played a big role Robert Froehlke, 1421 or AI Rabi­
Loved Me, May 5,6. mainder of the semester.
LaFortune or in the dining halls. in crushing the M.au Mau move-deau, 288-8798. 
Appointment times are still" a­vailable from Feb. 14-17. For further information call Mary Al­lare at 283-8093. 
SU announces rules for contest 
Student Union has announced the rules for the second annual Snow Sculpture Contest. This year the theme is "Almost Anything Goes." Sculptures will be judged on how well they resemble a person, place,or thing, with special attention given to cleverness, ac­curacy and detail. 
Students are reminded that no internal structures may be used in the sculptures. 
The sculptures can be started at 4 p.m. today and judging will be held this Sunday at 4 p.m. Each hall's entry must be located on its designated spot. Any sculpture begun before starting time or located in the wrong place will be 
Contact Capt. Davis at 283-6634
disqualified. 
The winning hall will receive $400. Second prize is. S2SO, third 
BOTC :;:>prize SlOO, and the fourth and fifth 
Gateway to a great way of life. ::::::::::::::::::::::::::;­
place halls will receive a gift certificate for a keg ofMiller beer. 
.............-..... •.• ...................., ...~ .. ' ' _., .. •~~"··~~-.. ~-.: .............. li' ......... . 



4 
Sadat calls Palestine issue crucial 
CAIRO* Egypt [AP] -President  said after meeting with U.S. Assis­ Ask-ed  if  there  was  room  for  The-Egyptian  leader  said  he  ing forces, and combined Egyptian­ 
Anwar  Sadat  warned  yesterday  tant  St~cretary  of  State  Alfred  compromise on Egypt's demand for  submitted a  six-point plan to the  Israeli  commission  to  implement  
that  despite  the  resumption  of  Atherton, who worked out the draft  self-determination-independence  military  committee  focusing  on  the agreement.  
Egyptian-Israeli  military  talks,  with Israeli leaders last week.  for the 1.1 million POallestianians  Israeli demands for secure borders  Sadat said he recognized Israel's  
"everything will collapse" unless  Meanwhile, the ministers of four  living on the occupied West bank of  following  any  troop  withdrawal  need for security but said prelimin­ 
the two nations agree on self-deter­ hard-line  Arab  states  and  the  the Jordan River and Gaza Strip,  from lands captured in  the  1967  ary principles for peace should be  
mination for the Palestinians living  Palestine  Liberation  Organization  Sadat replied:  "For the Palestin­ war.  "no treading  on  anyone's  sover­ 
in the occupied lands.  met behind closed doors in Algiers  ians, no.  We must find a way for  These included  a  demilitarized  eignty  or  land"  -an  indirect  
The Egyptian  leader  predicted  for talks aimed at thwarting Sadat's  this  really.  We  must  find  a  zone in the Sinai,  a limited arma­ reference to Israel's call for Pales­ 
that future negotiations would be a  peace initiative with Israel.  The  way...or everything will collapse."  ment  zone  afterward,  an  early  tinian self-rule under a  continued  
"heavy  and  difficult  job."  He  ministers  were  preparing  for  a  Sadat  told  the  American  warning system, U.N. peacekeep- Israeli military presence.  
urged the Carter administration to  summit Thursday  and Friday for  "Friendship  Delegation,"  which  
take "a Mideast.  clear  position"  on  the  the leaders of Algeria, Libya, Syria, South Yemen and the PLO.  has no government connection, that he is counting on the United  WSND to broadcast live  

Sadat made his remarks to The Egyptian-Israeli military States to play a key role in future reporters a few hours before the talks convened Jan. 11-12 focusing talks. 

from M~rdi Gras everynight 
resuption of joint military talks on Israel's insistence on maintain­In answer to a qestion, the 
by David Beno Dining -Hall on Thursday.

focusing on an Israeli pullback from ing 20 Jewish settlements in the Egyptian leader said he was aware 
This year's game shows will once
the Sinai Peninsula. They are the Sinai even after the occupied land of recent criticism from Egyptian 
WSND will broadcast live from again include "The Bong Show,"
first direct negotiations between is returned to Egypt. The talks diplomats and others who complain 
Mardi Gras each night, beginning which Thomas called "last year's
Egypt and Israel since Sadat broke were recessed for the beginning of that the Carter administration's 
this Friday, according to Program favorite," as well as "The Mating
off political talks in Jerusalem Jan. the Jerusalem meetings, the halted Mideast position keeps vascil­
Director Steve Thomas. The Game." In addition to these, this
18. when Israel refused to send De­lating. 
station will provide entertainment year WSND will introduce "Dorm
··without solving the Palestinian fense Minister Ezer W eizman to :'They think that with a clear 
at Mardi Gras from 6 p.m. until Feud," featuring teams from
problem we can't establish perma­meet again with Egyptian War positionfrom the United States Jots 
midnight on weeknights, 6 p.m. dorms that sign up. Students can
nent peace in the area,'' Sadat said Minister Mohammed Abdel Ghany of these difficulties can be solved,'' 
until 2 a.m. on Friday and Satur­sign up for these shows at the
after meeting with a "Friendship Gammasy. Sadat said. "They are right, but it 
day, noon until midnight on Sun­dining halls at the above times or
Delegation" of American Jews and Sadat appeared optimistic about doesn't mean my people don't 
days. by calling the station at 6400.

Christians led by Rabbi Joseph H. the outcome of the military talks know and appreciate what the 
Notre Dame's student radio sta­WSND will award "tons of
Ehrenkranz of Stamford, Ct. The but indicated that other differences United States has done and is 
tion will also broadcast live from prizes," which will include dinners 
group is on a four-day visit here. may be harder to overcome. doing." 
the dining halls this week during at local restaurants, tuxedos from
Earlier in the day, hopes for "On Sinai, I don't think we shall The remarks indicated the im­
evening meals to publicize Mardi Louie's, and subscriptions~"to RoU­
another Mideast breakthrough differ and this settlement problem portance which Sadat is placing on 
Gras and to conduct sign-ups for lng Stone magazine, stated Tho­
grew dim when Egyptia~ Foreign should be resolved. The real his upcoming talks with President 
WSND's game shows at Mardi mas.

Minister Mohamed Brahtm Kamel difficulty is the Palestinians," Sa­Carter at Camp David, Md., Satur­
Gras. The station will travel to the "It's shaping up to be a great
' refused to accept an Israeli-Ameri­dat told reporters at· his villa in day and Sunday and his aim to 
~ South Dining Hall on Wednesday show again this year, even better 
can draft declaration of principles Barrages, 15 miles north of Cairo. mobilize American Public opinion
' 
eveninJZ and will move to the North than last year's," Thomas added. 
on the Mideast. behin him. There are many poil)ts on wll'ich we don't see eye to eye," Kamel 
Marks accusses 
ND trustee 

[continued from page 1) 
government should follow two principles to improve the present 
mM

situation: it should follow the law, and should not tell lies. "Simple postulates," but two that are being abused at present, he maintained. 
He cited illegal mail-opening and surveillance as two lawbreaking activities in which the government is presently engaged. 

In regards to mail opening, Marks cited James Angleton, a CIA official, who claimed it was being done to intercept possible "com­munication of Soviet Agencies." When asked by a Senate investigative committee about the possibility of Soviet communication through American mail, Angleton replied, "We always thought that the KGB thought that we didn't open mail." Therefore, claimed Angleton, the possibility existed that Soviets would attempt to communicate through the mail, /• 
Marks continued. 
In relating FBI abuse of power, Marks talked of the organization coded CO-IN-TEL-PRO, and its activities, which ranged from "ordering 40 pizzas for unknowing student activists" to attempts to harrass Martin Luther King into committing suicide. 
Marks further claimed that some of the FBI covert activity has been verified by a Senate Committee and Sen. Frank Church's Committee report: --The FBI played a role in the firing of an Arizona University professor because of his "anti-war" feelings during the late sixties. --The FBI disbanded a Boy Scout group in Orange, New Jersey because the scout leader was thought to be associated with the Socialist Workers Group. --The FBI used scare tactics to "run ~Jut" a Black activist, working in ~•ississippi during the civil rights movement. --The FBI harrassed members of the Ku Klux Klan through similar tactics. One Klan member, according to Marks, was sent a letter warning him that he'd "bet­ter spend less time burning crosses on people's lawns because while you're gone, your wife's been running around with every Black jude in town." Marks claimed that this was an FBI ploy to disrupt the Klan member's family life, thereby 
making him less valuable  to  the  
Klan.  
[continued on page 6)  


And we can offer outstanding career opportunities in Marketing, Engineering or Computer Science. 
We will be interviewing at 
University of Notre Dame on February 7, 1978 

To find out about IBM and let us find out about you, sign up for an interview at the Placement Office or write to: I.C. pfeiffer, Corporate College Relations Manager, IBM Corporation, One IBM Plaza, Chicago, IL 60611. 
==='=~=® 
An Equal Opportunity/ Affirmative Action Employer 

Wednesday, February 1, 1978 
the observer 
5 

byEric Hawkins Dancers-Loretta Hoch 
A suspension of all expectations 
ginative forms of body contact they"Biazrfe," "Exciting," and "Definitely experimented with was very successful and wierd," were just some of the impressions enjoyable. The soothing ambience exuded voiced by attendants of last night's by the dancers endured even through an performance by the Erik Hawkins Dance ir_ritating episode of clattering form the Company in the O'Laughlin Auditorium of 
plano. 

St. Mary's. Even for those who are Leading the entire performance was familiar with the often wildly imaginative founder and director of the Erik Hawkins 
forms of dancing exhibited by lrtoderd Dance Company, Erik Hawkins himself. 
dance companies, the performance was Almo~t sixty years in age, Mr. Hawkins' certainly a unique experience. Dancing amazmg self-control and fluidness of before an almost full house, the troupe movement was remarkable. The other six 
• explored many/diverse dimensions of members of the company exhibited similar movement to the thoroughly innovative l~vels of dynam~clacy infused dancing and music of composer Lucia Dlugoszewski. 
dtsplayed fascmating combinations of 

The evening began with a dance entitled movements. "Early Floating," which, according to the 
H~wever, mo~t of the dance steps were / program, sought to "make the audience res~~ted to stmple, yet precise body aware of the essence of time and move­

postttons, connected by intertwiningment.'' However, it was not the movement the lulling atmosphere being projected stretc~es or twis?>. Few spectacular leaps 
which first impressed the audience, but form the stage. or twtrls were mcluded in the routines 
rather, the music. Working furiously at the Having adopted this attitude, the dance detracting from the potential intensity of stage,
piano, located on the was the ''All that thrusts forth and hangs in the air, the performance. But this was probably
composer herself. But rather than loboring from the piano as-music ..yas relieved ln was not as difficult to understand, even due to the fact that any feeble attempts by 
over the keys in the traditional manner of the second dance, entilled ''Greek though the "timbre piano music" of Ms. the older performers to heave themselves piano playing, most 'Jf Ms. Dlugoszewski's Dreams, With Flute.'' Accompanied by Dlugoszewski was re-introduced. How­into the air appeared clumsy and even 
body was immersed in the piano case itself, classical flute arrangements, this dance humorous.
ever, the mellowness of the movementswhere she plucked, scraped, and pounded concentrated upon recreating the dreamy failed to provoke any specific emotions. Unfortunately, most ~f the audience in 
the actual strings themselves. Thus, and poetic scenes that typified Ancient The evening was saved, though, by the O'La?ghli~ ~as not prepared for the
through the use of wood, felt, glass, wire, Greece. 
final dance, "Here and Now With Watch­drastic devtations from the more traditional 
and plastic bows upon the piano strings, a In projecting such images as "Nymph of Whether it was due to the
ers," which certainly compensated for the dance forms. 
series of sounds were produced form what the grass meadows," or a "choros of .the dullness of the previous attempt. A scanntily clad performers romping across has come to be classified as "timbre daughters of okeanos," the artists tender, yet emotionally powerful duet the stage, ~r the atonal noises issuing forth piano." 
concentrated upon connecting series' of between Cathy Ward and Erik Hawkins from the ptano, over half of the audienceA style invented and composed by Ms. 
delicate and charming movenments, which was certainly one of the highlights of the had disappeared by the third dance. But Dlugoszewski, it is quite a shock when on culminat,ed in the successful creatioa-of a performance. The perfectly coordinated for those who remained, a certain degree of realizes that the strange and disjointed visual fantasy. Clad only in flowing, movements they established and app~reciation was instilled through the noise being emitted form such a familiar see-through veils or loin cloths, the maintained through the provokingly ima-magtcal auro developed in the final dance. 
instrument have been termed "music"-it's physiques of the dancers were empha­even recorded on sheets. 
sized, thus enhancing the simple, natural However, although the 'tones produced effects of the dance. The pure, streaming
intitially seemed nery arbitrary, one soon melodies of the flute further provoked the 
noticed that a high leap always coincided imagination to greater insight into the
a 

perfectly with a heavy thundering from the scenes being created, and the seductive bass strings. Indeed, an interesting aspect effect wa1s tremendously powerful. of the entire dance was that it seemed that 
By the: time the third dance began, the the pulsating "plinks" and "planks'' of spectator had finally learned the secret to the piano were responding to the dancer's 
enjoying the art form being presented on lenges and thrusts, as opposed to the stage. To examine each movement and try
traditional style of choreographing in term~ to interpret it in terms of the theme was 
of a pre-existing musical score. 
fatal. Instead, true appreciation was Fortunately, any inability to reconcil aroused only through a suspension of all oneself to accepting the strange hangings expectia1ions, thus surrendering oneself to 






A Spectacular Close E

ncounter 
by dom salemi 

Close Encounters of the Thinl Kind, now individual who has seen the reality of a Guiler (Melinda Dillon), who has also been his family trying to convince everyone of playing at Town and Country, is a visually greater life beyond the stars? awakened by all the mysterious goings on, what he saw; and Jillian, in the movie's stunning and tremendously suspenseful The landing of the "Mother ship" is sees him from the window of her upstairs most frightening scene, has her son film. Ostensibly a science fiction feature therefore nothing less than the second bedroom. She calls to him but the child abducted from her home by unseen beings about human contact with extraterrestial coming. It is an apocalypse tha compels laughingly runs on. and is then unable to convince anyone to beings, it is really writer-director Steven m~n to reappraise his notion of reality and Spielberg _now r.nt« to the homP of Roy help her. Jillian's encounter is that of the Spielberg's romantic fantasy of universal ultimately forces him to the realization that Neary (Richard Dreyfuss) an average second kind-physical evidence of a UFO. spiritual redemption gained through he is not the center of the universe but middle class citizen with a homely little Roy and Jillian are drawn to each other shared experience. An experience he feels somethin!: else is; something that is wife (Teri Garr) and three kids. When because they share the same vision. For 
must be nothing short of cataclysmic if beyond him; and in the face of such we are introduced to him he is playing in a some reason they are both compelled to Amankind is ever to come together in the wonderous experience that 'something' poorly furnished den with his children's sculpt and draw a peculiarly shaped, spirit oflove and fellowship. For Spielberg can only be called God. trains. truncated mountain. They find the answer a metaphysical confrontation; it is an One can, however, enjoy the film soley to their compulsion in the form of Devil's 
Roy works for an electrical power
epiphany a spiritual revelation that will for its intriguing plot and spectacular Tower, Wyoming, and,so they both move 
company, and when all the lights suddenly 
force man to recognize his own insignifi­special effects. For if anything can be said toward the encounter of the third kind ­
go off in his home and the rest of the city,
cance as well as his inability to direct the ofthe film it is that it is far from boring. In actual physical contact. In Wyoming they 
he is called and told to investigate one of
forces of nature. fact, Spielberg has publicly stated that he find the government, other individuals who 
the areas where the power might possible 
feels he has failed if anyone is able to leave have had the same vision, and a special
Thus all the characters in the film who have failed. While on the way he
the theatrt~ after viewing the film and not team of investigators led by a Frenchman
aliens encounters spaceship which beams its
encounter the undergo a radical look at the skies in ooen-mouthed wonder. a named Lacombe (marvelously underplayed 
transformation that leaves them unable to lights on his car and shakes it up. 
by Francois Truffaut). 

He has little to fear; aose Encounters is a
handle the exigencies of day to day living: Undaunted Roy takes off after the saucer
spectacular film. The final encounter, which comprises
and in the process nearly runs down Jillian 
vur ttrst intimation of an alien presence the last forty minutes of the movie, is one
hundreds of Indians blissfully sit in the and her little boy, who has inexplicably and 
comes in the bedroom of a sleeping child in of the most spectacular and moving scenes
noonday sun, repetitively chanting the A beam from a spaceship almost inexorably run onto a deserted
rural Indiana. in the history of film. It has to be, for in
musical series transmitted by the saucers highway.
activates 21 cymbal-playing toy monkey that this irrevocable and unprecedented they have seen; a little child runs from the awakens the young boy. As the child After apologizing to Jillian, Roy and meeting, man is coming into contact with safety of his mother's arms to the alien dazedly rubs his eyes more battery she notice they are surrounded by a the unknown, with forces and intelligences ships when they land on his house a second operated toys enter the room from all number of itinerant workers and their beyond his comprehension, with a reality time; the hero of the film, Roy Neary directions. The boy is far from frightened. fallX1ies who are parked by the side of the he did not even dream existed. · ' (Richard Dreyfuss) gives up his family and In fact, he: is delighted; and when he hears road &..,d apparently waiting for something. a blossoming relationship with a beautiful other noises he wanders downstairs. There Until •Jtis point we have not seen the Spielberg does not let us down. In the woman for a life with the visitors. All these he finds tllte kitchen in total disarray: pop saucers, a'J]y the beams of light they give final scene he plays on our anxieties and people are compelled to act the way they do cans have been punched open; boxes of off. Now they come hurtling overhead in a expectation:; so beautifully that we are but not for any pathological reason. They food have: been torn apart; and fruit and brilliant burst of color and sound. Roy and drained of emotion. Like Roy and Jilllian, are driven beings who no longer find vegetables have been scattered about the Jillian have just had a close encounter of we can only gaze in childlike astonishment meaning in earthly life; or rather they have floor. Ga1sping in delight, the child runs the first kind-sighting of a UFO. as the mothership opens for the firuli furie found meaning in life but not on earth. For outside ittto the woods. As he begins to Both of their lives are totally disrupted and we are introduced to our brothers from what can life on earth possibly offer to an run from the house his mother, Jillian by their experience. Roy loses his job and beyond the stars. · 

~---~--~-~­



Chavez calls halt to UFW wine, lettuce boycott 
LOS ANGELES [AP] -An organized boycott that kept some California wine off the liberal cocktail party circuit for more than four years and drew support from politicians and trade unionists was called to a halt yesterday by Cesar Chavez. 
The leader of the United Farm Workers Union said boycotts against California's lettuce, table­grape and wine industries were no longer necessary. 
Chavez said he was stopping the boycotts because of the effective­ness of a state law enacted in 1975 that provides for secret ballot elections on whether farm workers want a union to represent them. 
More than 550 such elections 

have been held. Chave's union 
holds contracts with 117 growers 
and is negotiating with 100 more 
following victories in certification elections. 
Chavez's announcement at his headquarters in Keene, 120 miles north of Los Angeles, capped the second round of protracted and often bitter boycotts headed by the charismatic union leader. Most of the boycotts ended with achieve­ment of the announced goals of the UFW. formed by Chavez to im­prove working conditions for mi­
grant laborers. 
'The Agricultural Labor Relations . .ct is alive and functioning," Chavez said in his statement. "In California, farm workers in some places are now able to vote for the union of their choice and come to the bargaining table to negotiate with their employers." 
Chavez's action, approved by the union executive board, ended inter­national boycotts against grapes, head or iceberg lettuce not picked 

Marks accuses ND trustee 
[continued from page 4) specifically Notre Dame's as being · & 11 d subject to such abuse. 
M h
--artin Lut er Kmg was ,o owe "You students should not allow and bugged continuously during " h
h' · & C' ·1 R' h this use of academic cover, e 
ts campatgn .or lVI tg ts. 1 I' · 
Th FBI d' J Ed H concluded, '' t may 1m1t your 
en-!rector . gar oover school's freedom of research and had the organhi~atio~ se;~dK~ng a your freedom to travel. It gives you tape warning tm t at e etter " 
not accept the Nobel Prize he was students a bad name. 
by members of the farms workers' union, along with E & J Gallo table 
wines~~. 
The lettuce boycott was called in 
September 1970 to bring economic 
pressure on growers after court 
injunctions ended a UFW strike in 
the Salinas Valley. 
The grape and Gallo boycotts 
began three years later after UFW 
contracts expired and a number of 
growers signed with the rival 
Teamsters Union. 
"The only way we could continue 
economic pressure was through 
SMC to start services program 
St. Mary's Office of Student Activities has announced that it will initiate a community services pro­gram, similar to the one already in existence at Notre Dame. The purpose of the program will be to heighten awareness of volunteer services and activelyfilter one-time requests by indivil;luals and groups for volunteer assistance. 
A representative from each hall 
is needed to act as a liason between the volunteer servt'ces office and students t'n thet'r dorm. Anyone 
who is interested in such a position should contact Mary Laverty at 4319 or Julie Jones at 4870 by Feb. 
3. 
the boycott," said union spokes­man Marc Grossman. 
Although pollsters found support t<;>r the latest boycotts, an exact dollar impact was impossible to come by. In October 1975 pollster Louis Harris found 12 percent of the public said they stopped buying table grapes because of the boy­cdtts, another eleven percent were boycotting lettu.ce and eight per­cent were boycotting Gallo wines. 

The UFW's first strike-boycott in 1965 brought national renown to the little known union then called the Agricultural Workers Organiz­ing Committes. It began in Delano against several growers, including Schenley and DiGiorgio farms, went nationwide in 1968 and ended in 1970 after most table-grape growers signed UFW contracts. 


The Knights Men's Hair Styling 
We are pleased to present our experts in men's hair styling and hair care. Use our private entrance at the Queen's Castle. 
~ 54533 Terrace Lane 
Tues. & Wed. 8:30-6:30 Thurs. & Fri. 8:3D-8:30 272-8471 Sat 8:30-5:30 . 277-1691 

to receive, and that . perhaps it r--------------------------------------------------------1 
would be best if he committed 
suicide, Marks continued. 
In all, Marks said. the FBI is 
little more than "police power 
turned against our own people." 
Concerning his second major 
point, that the government should 
not lie, Marks gave concrete 
examples of when each 
administration had done so, from 
Eisenhower through Ford. 
Eisenhower, he maintained, lied 
about the use of spy pianes over the 
USSR, and was forced to admit it 
publicly when one ".; hot down 
1700 miles within ,, · 1wrders. 
The government dn 1' .. that the 
plane was a "unar; weather 
reconaissance plarw :-tat had 
srraved off it's oath. .s said. 
Kennecty, he clait• ...•d about 
CIA involvemnt in 1·: · of Pigs 
incident. Johnso;~ :. , . I up with 
a rash ofCIA-relatl',i :c noted, 
involving the Tonk:• Resolu­
tion, which gave the :•c power 
to make war in Sow · ·.1 Asia. 
What Johnson failc mention 
was that the U. '>. <tlready 
attacking in that are. ·evealed 
in the Pentagon Pap• !>eration 
J4a), Marks mainta[: 
Nixon, he claim-·. d about 
everything" but :-ded to 
pick our e)l_ampl, · · • . :ng the 
CIA. as in Chil< ,;• in the 
Watergate scandaL 
President Ford. \i::··..-; ~elated, 
had publicly gone ., , r._., •Jrd as 
saying that he would '"ll tulhorize 
CIA intervention 111 Portugal, 
though he had dont: precisdy that 
months before. 
Marks was at :t fn.;s iu catch 
President Jimmy Carter in any CIA 
related lies, and said "I have to 
believe him at this point." Marks 
stressed the favorable aspects of 
Carter's policy with the CIA, 
saying that he was making a 
positive effort to alleviate the 
interventionist function he had 
previously described. 
\"I don't want to tell you that it's 
oleay now," he stressed, "but 
Carter doesn't appear to be using 
the CIA the same way in which they 
were used years ago.'' 
M, :ks concluded with remarks 
about the CIA's infiltration on 
college campuses. Marks said that 
some students took part in drug 
experimentation on campuses; 
experiments. claimed Marks. that 
were run bv the CIA. 
"Many s-tudents might not have 
wanted to get involved had they 
known the CIA was running the 
program," he said. 
Marks also noted that many 
professors have been hired by the 
CIA to scout out foreign exchange 
students who might wish to spy on 
their own governments. He cited 
"Sophomore and Junior Year 
Abroad" programs, though not 
•
~~-•.~ .••• •A ·"' 


People, concepts, backgrounds, . teamwork. They are all needed to accomplish a desired goal. Stone & Webster ought to know. We're a world leader in the engineering and construction of fossil­fuel, nuclear, and hydroelectric power plants in this country and all over the world. 
Stone & Webster has been in business for nearly ninety years. One of the many reasons that we have continued to grow is due to the fact that our engineers come from a wide diversity of racial, ethnic, and cultural backgrounds. We have always hired, trained, and promoted on the basis of talent and proven ability. 
If you are seeking the challenges and rewards of an engineering career with a company that can point with equal pride to both its engineering and human accomplishments, talk to Stone & Webster. 
Career opportunities exist in our Reid Construction Department for Mechanical and Electrical Engineers. 
Check Your College Placement Office For A Campus Interview. 
Campus InterviewsWill Be Held On 
Feb. 3, l978

AStone &Webster Engineering Corporation 
An Affirmative Action/Equal Opportunity Employer M!F 
-

.. .. ... ,•
·..·..~·,.· ................ ..................., ................·~ ....,....·.
·~· 


-----~ ------------~----, 
Wednesday, February 1, 1978 



Documents raise ~new questions ~-­about guilt of exe,cuted radicals 
CAMBRIDGE, Mass. [AP] • biguously dated drafts of an 11th reputation and a conviction that the 
Documents from the final days of hour report to then-Gov. Alvan T. commission reached the right con­the Sacco-Vanzetti case-unveiled Fuller and from a phrase appearing clusions. yesterday after SO years-pose new in an early draft of the report but Two weeks after the execution, questions about the haste and not in the final report. he wrote Fuller, "I think you were 
certainty with which a Harvard The ambiguous dates could indi­absolutely right in refuling a com­president and two other men cate the authors wrote their con­mutation which would have kepthelped send two anarchists to the clusions before hearing out the the agitation for a pardon openelectric chair. defense. indefinitely."
Historians are divided on The phrase could i,ndicate they And a week after the execution whether Nicola Sacco and Bartolo­were less certain about Vanzetti's he wrote a fellow commission meo Vanzetti were proven guilty. guilt than about Sacco's. member, "We shall get more cuffs Two questions arise from am-Sacco and Vanzetti were exe­than kisses for our work, but it was cuted Aug. 23, 1927, for a payroll done by citizens as an importantMeeting tomorrow robbecy and two murders in South public service, and was very much 
Braintree in 1920. They main­worthdoing."
for SSP elections tained their innocenc1e to the end, One major question raised by claiming they were persecuted Sacco-Vanzetti sympathizers over Students interested in running because they were Italian-born the years has centered on the speed for Student Body President and anarchists. Their case became a with which the commission acted. 
Vice-President must attend an 
"cause-celebre" to radicals around It began taking testimony Julyimportant meeting tomorrow at 10 the world. 
11, 1927. It report was in Fuller's 
p.m. in the Student Government But one appeal after another hands July 27. 
office. failed and, with excitement high, The first typewritten draft is Rules for the election will be 
Fuller in 1927 appointed A. dated July 20. A second draft is explained. 
Lawrence Lowell, pre1;ident of Har­dated the same way, but the date is vard University, to head a commis­crossed through to make it read sion of three eminent men to July 27. So there is a question:
Meeting called 
review the court proceeJings for Was it prepared on July 20-before for J-board heads him. the defense presented its formal, The other members of the com­final arguments to the commission 
There will be a meeting of all hall mission were Samuel W. Stratton, -or did someone simply make a judicial board chairpersons at 7 68, president of the Massachusetts mistake about the date? 
p.m. tomorrow in the Student Institute of Technology, and Robert There may never be an answer, Government offices. Representa­A. Grant, 75, a fo:rmer probate because all three commission mem­tives should be sent if J-board judge. Lowell was 70. bers are dead and no explanation
chairpersons are unable to attend. The commission reported on July was immediately evident in 
a 27, 1927 that the trial had been fair review of the papers.Stauffer to give and that it believed Sacco and Another point of controversy Vanzetti were guilty. over the years has been the

art songs recital 
Within a month, the two men commission's official finding about 
Area soprano Becky Stauffer will were executed and radicals around Vanzetti: "On the whole we are of present a recital of art songs the world launched protests. opinion that Vanzetti also was tonight at 8: 15 p.m. in the Notre Yesterday, Harvard opened to guilty beyond reasonable doubt.'' Dame Library Auditorium. Part of the public Lowell's private papers Defense lawyer Michael A. the Notre Dame Concert Series, the on the case. Harvard has posses­Musmanno wrote in 1939 that the 
Fr. Jerome E. Knoll, has been Fr. Knoll fs a native of Michigan 

recital is open to the public without sion of Lowell's pap,ers, and most phrase "on the whole" appears to named chaplain of ,staff at Notre City and received undergraduatecharge. have been open to the public for contradict the idea ''beyond Dame. He will coordinate his and master's degrees at ND inA graduate of Oberlin College, years. But those relating to Sacco reasonable doubt." 
activities with Fr. William Toohey, philosophy and education, a mas­
Ms. Stauffer has been known in and Vanzetti were accepted in Now, in the first draft, even more director of Campus Ministry, and ter's degree in sacred doctrine atthis area for twenty years. She is in 1948, five years after his death, on uncertainty emerges. It reads, will be assisted by Bro. Paul Loos. Holy Cross College in Wa hington,her fourth year as a faculty condition they remain sealed for 30 "On the whole, we are of opinion, The , staff chaplain, a new posi­D.C., and recently participated inassociate in voice with the Notre years. beyond reasonable doubt, that tion at the University, will be the Notre Dame Institute for Oergy 1'1 Dame music department. There are 1,500 frames of Vanzetti also was guilty, though responsible for spiritual assistance Education. 
She will be accompanied by microfilm -commission documents, with less assurance than in the case to all employees in times of In recent years he has served on
Walter Ginter, piano, a graduate of transcripts of testimony, letters, of Sacco." 
sickness or deaths in the family. the faculty and an athletic coach atWestminster Choir College who is clippings, personal notes. In the second draft, the final He will be available for spiritual La Lumiere School, LaPorte; Notre also an adjunct faculty member of In some of the letters, which phrase is typed, but crossed counse.Uing and arrange Dame High School, Niles, lll. and the Notre Dame Music Depart­start in 1927 and end in 1939, through with a pen. In 'tile final such religious services as daily at Holy Cross Seminary, Notre ment. Lowell reveals a concern for his report it does not appear at all. 
Masses and of recollection. Dame. 
Sti II need books? Pandora's has used I need someone to repair a Panasonic Dear Chris Eichorn, inexpensive books for many N D classes. portable B&W TV. Will pay cost Thanks alot. We also buy used books. 937 S. Bend plus......call Steve 288·0088. Jim


CLASSIFIED AI)S 

Ave. (near Corby's). 233-2342. 
Wanted: 2 Marquette tix. Will pay Dillon's ghetos are off to Madtown to see Skis -Rossignor Roc 550's with Solomon reasonable sum of$$. Call1612. Ash and the Dead and Jerry G. 505's -excellent condition. Dave, 277-4784. Wanted: One roomate to share apartment Mary Phyllis-
at Campus View. Call Bill at 277·3509. 1want to go to your formal. ....do youStereo for sale. Turntable, receiver, believe me now? NOTICES 8-track, speakers. Call Mike, 232-0550. Will pay your price for GA Marquette tix. Jack LOST AND f'OUND Call 7946. 

For sale, Washburn D-28 guitar, 3 MKB Oue to the 'blizzard of '78', many prepaid months old. $250. Paul, 277·1874. Wanted: 2 Marquette BB tix. Call Don Congratulations on your 650! But classified ads which were scheduled to 233·8036. Mostly, thanks for being around.
Lost; Green and gold ski cap in cafeteria. 

run in the Observer Friday or Monday FOR SALE: 19.6 Coachman travel trailer; H.J.
Reward. Please call Paul, 8540.

have been moved back two issues. If your like new condition, sleeps six; self HELP: Need Marquette tix. Will pay ad was timely and you wish to request a contained; $3300. Call after 6 pm. good $$. Call 283-8830. Wanted: Used acoustic guitar. Nylon.
LOST: Set of keys b)• the ACC ice rink.

refund, please bring your receipt to the Honda key. Please Call 277·0222, 272-8308. Immediately! Call Jim, 3684. 234·8279, or turn into rink pro shop.
Observer office Thursday, Feb. 2, be­Am interested in purchasing a bunch of• tween 11 am and 5 pm. Thank you. FOR SALE: 3-4 bedrooom quadlevel; tickets for Marquette game. Call John, If you see Carol Schroer today give her a family room with fireplace; stove refrige­283·3829. kiss -but I won't say where f!
FOUND: Pair of wire rimmed glasses in a

Anyone wishing to register to vote in the brown cigarette type case on the road rator, dishwasher, humidifier; custom Ceasar Indiana May election should contact Mo between the library and O'Shag. Call made drapes; professionally landscaped; Need Marquette tickets. Will pay your at 4-1-4001 before spring break. 5 minutes from Notre Dame. Low 50's. price. Call Russ at 8772. ANN TORRE­
8842. 

Call after 6 to the above number. Don't mess with any green or blue eyedDissertations, manuscripts typed. IBM LOST: Brown plaid wool scarf, Saturday Need several Marquette tickets. Call "huggy bears." Selection II. Linda's Letters, 287-4971. Brian at 272-5843.
night at Guiseppe's • Very special Christmas present! Call 8132. WANTED DEAR LIS 
Accurlte, Fast typing. Mrs. Donoho, Need up to four GA tickets for any home HAPPY BIRTHDAY!! 232-0746. Hours: 8am to 6 pm. basketball game. Prefereably DePaul. JOHN
FOUND: A black wallet behind Lyons 

Hall by the Rock on Tuesday. Enclosed One two or three female roomates needed Call Pat 1068. Typing. Reasonable rates. Call 8051. are Indiana drivers license, work 10 and tor Campus View Apartments. Call7060. Judo club will be meeting Mondays, 6:30 Library card. Call to identify at 1715. Need ride to Pittsburgh araea after -8, ACC, Wrestling Pit, starting Feb. 13. Typing done fast, accurate. Reasonable Need four GA tickets to any weekend Wednesday. Call Val, 7088 Trainer sessions (5 classes) starts Feb. 1. LOST: Round 14 Kgold medal the size of
service. Close to campus. Ph. 272·7866. basketball game. Call 4-1·5745. Call Curt, 8711 for more information. aquarter has sun face with acrack on the PERSONALS
CONTACT LENS WEARERS: Save on medal. Also, gold Italian horn. Lost 4 Depaul tix, together or two prs. Need ride to the Pittsburgh area after brand name hard and soft lens supplies. Thursday Jan 26 morning between Fis­Thursday. Call Val, 7088. Send for free illustrated catalog. Contact Wanted: 1 or 2 B-Ball Davidson GA tix.
cher and Dining Hall. Substatial Reward. Lightweight hotline • Call 1363 anytime
Lens Supplies, Box 7453, Phoenix, Ar. Call John at 8209. ROSEMARY:
Call Mike 3010. day or night (preferably at 11 pm) and ask
85011. I REMEMBERED TO PUT IN A
for Diane.

Need one GA ticket for Depaul. Call PERSONAL FOR YOU!! GET WELLFOUND: Silver wire framed glasses
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND outside the ACC before Maryland game. Pete: 6891. SOON. BY THE WAY.....WHERE DID
If you don't believe anyone goes to bed atat percent

Student loans one interest Call1475. 11, call Diane and wake her up. YOU CATCH YOUR DISEASE? 
(monthly). $20-$150. One day wait. Due 1need 2 GA Marquette tickets real bad. KATH in 30 days. LaFortune basement, George, 1248. 
Diane­

11:15-12:15, M-F. FOR SALE 
Your birthday party was a smashing

House parent; room and board plus $85 
success; too bad you couldn't get up for

Volunteers needed for recycling program, per week tax free. Close to campus: it. Maybe next year.
1-2 hours per week. Contact John Ryan, BSR turntable with walnut base and Flexible hours: 232-4805. 8701 or 6413. 
dustcover. Call 70i7. 
Regina 2 South is proud to announce the

Needed: Somebody to take over my lease 
birthdays of three of their belovedNEED QUALITY TYPING? Executary FOR SALE: BIC 98'1 turntable, only three two blocks from campus. Ed .. 8886. 

members: Katy Riedle, Mary EllenInc., Professional Typing Service IBM months old. Come1s with Shure M91ED Gallagher, and Carol Schroer. HappyCorrecting Selectrics. 85 cents per page cartridge, walnut IJase and dustcover. Wanted: 1or 2 B-Ball tix for Marquette. Birthday,minimum. Call 232-o898 "When you Must sell . Call 3(158. 

Call 6326. 
Love, the Gang

want the best." FULL COLOR COTTON BOWL PIC-Need 2 Marquette GA tickets. Call Free birthday kisses...Contact Carol
Typing done. Reasonable rates. Call 
TURES NOW AVAILABLE .....CALL8982 Diane-7883. Schroer 5407. Don't let me be lonely.
8086 between 7 pm and 9 pm. 
Clarence the Transvestite 
The heavy snows from the blizzard caused several roofs to 
collapse, including the top on this convertible. [Photo by Bill 
Reifsteck] 

Knoll named staff chaplain 
·--~-------------....-----~­
Irish confront Explorers in Palestra 

by 11m 8oiU'l'et the game. The weight of the fans he has averaged 9.3 points and Sports Writer on the sixty year old wood was a bit grabbed 8.2 rebounds per game. too much.) Kurt Kanaskie and Darryl Glad­
If the Fighting Irish basketball Michael Brooks apparently is not den will start in Westhead's back­team is to continue its' winning bothered by the environment of his court. Kanaskie averaged only 6.5 ways this week they will have to homecourt. The 6-7 sophomore points a game in 1976-77 but this contain some of the top scoring averaged 19.9 points a game last year he scores at 17.1 a game. His players in the country. This season and has increased that total improvement was not that big a evening Michael Brooks, a 24.1 in 1977-78. Many compare his surprise. He started six of the last scorer will lead the LaSalle Ex­style of play to that of Adrian eight games last year. His finest plorers into the ancient Palestra in · Dantley. He is not the biggest effort came against Notre Dame Philadelphia for a 9 p.m. game forward in the world, but he when he scored 16 points, dealt out with the Irish. On February 4, the somehow muscles his way for easy seven assists, grabbed six re­Davidson Wildcats and John Gerdy scores from arourid the basket. In bounds, and made four steals. He will travel to South Bend to face the addition to his scoring proficiencies later scored 21 points in an ECC Irish. Gerdy tops the Southern he is one of the top rebounders in tournament semifinal win over Conference and ranks sixth nation­the country with a 12.8 average. Lafayette. ally in scoring with a 27.4 average. "Michael Brooks is like a die­Gladden is the Explorers' flashy One week from this evening Ronnie hard battery,'' says Explorer coach playmaker. Like Kanaskie, he Perry and his 22.6 average will lead Paul Westhead. "His mere pre­came off the bench most of last a 14-3 Holy Cross team into the sence on the court brings electricity season, but started the final five ACC. to any game. I think it would be ·games of the season. A lightning 
Notre Dame his won its last fair to say that Michael will be one quick passer, he set a Volunteer seven games after dropping three of the top five players in the Classic record last year when he out offour over the semester break. country before he graduates." made 10 assists in a loss to Digger Phelps' success has come Joining Brooks upfront in West­Tennessee. This season he again from balance and not the star heads's three forward offense that leads the club in assists and system utilized by Notre Dame's will try to out-quick the stronger averages 11.1 points per game. upcoming opponents. According to Irish frontcourt, are Mo Connolly Notre Dame will once again start the latest statistics four Irish are and Jim Wolkiewicz. Connolly Jeff Carpenter, Rich Branning, averaging in double figures. Duck scored only 18 points all last Dave Batton, Bruce Flowers and Williams. who recently jumped into season, but the 6-7 sophomore has Orlando Woolridge. Don Williams ninth place on the all-time scoring averaged 13.1 points per game in and Bill Laimbeer both sat out list. leads the. group with a 14.8 1978. He has developed into Monday's practice because of in­average. Dave Batton, who has LaSalle's finest outside shooter. tlamation in their respective foot connected on .591 of his shots from Wolkiewicz is the club's most and wrist injuries, but both made the field. follows Williams with a experienced player. He was a top the trip and will play. Phelps will 
14.2 mark. Rich Branning has sub and occasional starter as a probably stay with his present scored 11.3 points a game and freshman on LaSalle's 1974-75 starting lineup until he suffers a freshman Kelly Tripucka 10.6. NCAA tournament team and has loss. 
All the Irish will have to come been a regular for the past two Notre Dame has won seven in a through with consistent perfor­seasons. In 1976-77 he was the row, but six have come in the ACC. mances if they are to register their only Explorer to start all 29 games. The Irish are 11-0 at home this year 

-

15th victory of the season. Notre The 6-6 senior has been out­and now have captured 21 in Bruce Flowers has aided the Irish considerably in his renewedDame has had a history of trying standing in big games throughout succession and 74 of their last 79 at post-position. [Photo by Doug Christian] 
affairs in the Palestra. Last his career. In last year's East the ACC. season's 64-62 loss to Villanova is Coast Conference championship the most recent example. That loss game he scored a career high 19 was probably Notre Dame's worst points. His finest rebound efforts 

ND women thrash Grace, 68-25 
showing of the season as the Irish last season came against two of the 
committed a season high 26 turn­best teams in the east, Syracuse 
by Bill Griffin pass from Carol Lally to her sister during the second half. overs and shot only 41 percent in and Providence. He possesses an Sports Writer Maggie allowed the Irish to break 
Carola Cummings summed the the dingy Palestra barn...uh, audi­outstanding shooting touch as evi­the ice, but frequent substitution game up well in stating, "It was aThe undefeated Notre Dame by coach Sharon Petro resulted in atorium. (Last season I fell through denced by his 86 percent free throw good tune-up for the Marquettewomen's basketball team posted somewhat sluggish second-halfthe bleachers at the conclusion of percentage in 1976-77. This year game on Friday, because every­
.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·....;·;·;·;·.·.·.·;·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·. their fifth victory of the season with performance by the Irish.
ran a ro a··.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.······························································ body got to play." Co-captain
F k L G tt a 68-25 thrashing of Grace College Leading the attack for the Irish Carol Lally added that the gamelast night at the A.C.C. The Irish was Pat Meyer, who came off the ','showed the depth of the bench."
came out strong in the first half and bench to score eleven points, while coasted through the final twenty also gathering in a teai;Jl-leading After playing at Marquette on

Goodbye Joe 

minutes in an impressive showing nine reboundj. Next in the well­Friday, the Notre Dame women will of quickness and determination. balanced list of scorers were Molly entertain the Belles of St. mary's at Early in the game with the score Cashman, Carola Cummings and the A.C.C. on Monday night. 
:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:;;.;.:;:.:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:,:-:,:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::·:::::·:::·=·:·:·:·:-Last Shot S-2, Notre Dame began a 16-4 Maggie Lally with ten points Although Coach Petro's thoughts Joe Namath retired last week. scoring spree to open up a fifteen­apiece. are currently focused on the He played the game that lights up so many television sets on so many point lead. Maggie Lally sank four Coach Petro was pleased with Marquette Warriors, she summed Sundays for 13 seasons, on two knees that doctors predicted wouldn't last baskets and Molly Cashman tallied the showing of her undefeated up her feelings on the upcoming t. 
3. He spent his last season on the Los Angeles Rams' bench backing up a twice, while a jump shot by Marge squad in the first-half, but admit­Mary's game in just five words: man who had neither his knowledge nor his ability ...and it hurt. It had to. Meagher and a nifty back-door ted that the team was "a bit flat" "We'll be ready for them." So he retired last week and whatever the reason, bad knees or bench lay-up by Carol Lally accounted for splinters, it doesn't seem quite right to let "number 12" leave without one the remaining two baskets. last word. The remaining minutes of the 
"The old AFL"...a league of motley misfits, NFL retreads, empty first half saw Notre Dame scoring stadiums and bouncing paychecks. They called themselves, "The Foolish almost at will against Grace's zone f:lub, ·: quite appropriately and they tried to start a new professional defense. many buckets were the 
*Observer 

football venture that would challenge the powerful, entrenched and result of fast break lay-ups set up arrogant National Football League. But it wasn't working and the "fools" by a tenacious defense and crisp needed something or someone to save them. passing. The fine all-around effort Enter Joe Namath. was concluded by Pat Meyer's 
After a four-year superstar tenure at the University of Alabama, jump shot as the first-half buzzer Namath signed a 427,000 dollar contract to "save" the AFL. He didn't let sounded with Notre Dame holding anyone down. Joe Namath was the highest paid rookie in professional a commanding 42-14 lead. 





Sports

athletics up to that time and, as New York Jets president David "Sonny" The second half began slowly, Werblin, responsible for signing Namath, put it: "He was worth every with neither team scoring during dollar he got." the first four minutes. A full-court 
And he was. New York Jets season ticket holders jumped to 35,000 in Namath's first year. In fact, the club sold an amazing 2,800 the day his aquisition was 
Irish cagers ranked fourth in AP 
announced. The AFL proved they too could attract the cream of the nation's college football crop and in doing so gained credibility. Not long (AP]-Despite a 78-62 thrashing at quette received five, Arkansas 18th to 11th after beating Duke and in coming was a new television contract with NBC which brought the the hands of Alabama's Crimson four, Notre Dame two and seventh North Carolina State. owners of the floundering AFL organizations much needed capital. Of Tide, Kentucky maintained its hold place Michigan State four. Texas, 16-2, moved up from No. course, paramount to the tickets and the money was the attention Namath on the No. 1 spot in this week's UCLA, 14-2, received 582 points IS to 12th after beating Texas 
attracted to himself and to the league. People either loved his cocky Associated Press college basketball after beating Southern California A&M, Baylor and SMU. attitude, his flippant self-assurance, or they hated it...but they were poll. 83-71 and rose a spot from sixth. 
DePaul leaped from 19th to 13th 
finallv interested. As Sid Gillman, then coach of the San Diego Chargers The Wildcats, 14-1 garnered 35 North Carolina, 16-3, lost to 
after beating St. Louis and Provi­pointed out, "Sonny signing Namath was better than signing Cassius of a possible SO first place votes Wake Forest 71-62 and beat Clem­dence, raising its record to 16-2. 
Clay." Monday and held the top position son 98-64, and fell from third to No. 
Georgetown, D.C., 15-2, toppedBut Joe Namath was much more than just a "media monster." He was, with 926 points. 6 with 562. 
American University, then crushed according to more than a few football minds, the greatest quarterback to Arkansas' Razorbacks, 19-1, de-Michigan State, 15-1 remained New England College 80-30, and ever play the professional game. He passed for 4,007 yards in one 14 feated Baylor 56-SS in overtime No. 7 with 560 points as the advanced from 16th to 14th. 
game season-something no other man has been able to accomplish. then beat SMU 72-65 and Texas Spartans beat Ohio State 70-60. 
Florida State, 15-2, beat St.
That's right...not Unitas, not Stabler, not Tarkenton or Tittle; all of whom Tech 54-49 to move up from fourth Kansas, 16-2, remained No. 8 Louis to jump two spots to 15th.
played on better teams, behind better offensive lines, on better knees. a week ago to No. 2 with 728 points. with 264 points after beating And he won "the big one." Super Bowl Ill. In what might be Marquette, 15-2, lost to Loyola of Colorado 85-56 and losing 62-58 to Rounding out the Top Twenty 
were Providence, 16-2, No. 16;
considered the greatest upset in the history of professional sports, Joe Chicago 68-64 after beating Xavier Nebraska. 
Duke, 15-4, No. 17; Syracuse, 14-3, 
Namath's rifle-arm and smart play-calling humiliated the Baltimore Colts, of Ohio 78-62 and fell from second Louisville, 12-3, routed Tulane 16-7. to third with 664 points. 105-82 and moved up from 12th to No. 18; lllinois State, 18-2, No. 19, and San Francisco, 15-4, No. 20.
"We will win! I guarantee it!" Namath boldly proclaimed. Notre Dame, 14-3, beat Dart-No. 9 with 242 points. 
And he produced. mouth 78-64, West Virginia 103-82 New Mexico beat Brigham San Francisco was the only Of course, that's all behind him now. The man who was perhaps the and Maryland 69-54 and moved upeYoung 95-82 and Utah 113-89, newcomer to this week's poll and 
greatest of all time at what he did, hung up the helmet for good. a notch to fourth with 649 points. raising its record to 15-2 and Indiana State, which was 13th a Joe Namath retired from footbal! last week...and football will miss him. Of the 15 first place ballots that moving up from 14th to lOth. week ago, lost twice aad fell out of 
,• ·-·.. I guarantee it. .•••.. Kentucky did not receive;. Mar-. Virginia, .1.4-2, moved .up from the Top Twenty. 



