Former N D security officer resigns fi"Om police force 
by Rob Powers StaH Reporter 

Thomas Balogh, former part­time Security officer d Notre Dame, resigned his post as Ser­geant with the South Bend Police at a meeting of the South Bend Board of Public Safety on Mond:ty night. 
Police Chief Michael E.orkowski had called for Balogh's resignation after Balogh had refused to take the polygraph test in c1mnection with five incidents of arson at Notre Dame during October brt ak. 
Balogh had been with ':he South Bend Police since 1967. 
According to Officer Gbnn Terry of the South Bend Polict Services Commission, Balogh cannot be forced to take the test now that he has resigned. Terry aclded that with the resignation of B:tlogh, the South Bend Police are no longer involved in arson inquiry. 
Balogh told the South Bend Tribune on Saturday tha1 he had a personal distrust of polygraph tests, and that he had engaged the strvices of an attorney "for legal advice." 
The Notre Dame investigators include Dean of Students James Roemer, Director of Security Joseph Wall, and the St. Joseph County Seriffs office. The Univer­sity has also hired Michael Nastoff from Hoyle Clausing Associates in Chicago to assist in the investiga­tion. 
The Tribune also reported that St. Joseph County Police Capt. Elmer Chikar said that the five University security guards and security director as well as several other people were asked by the private investigator hired by the University to take polygraph tests as a matter of routine. 
Balogh and former Security Officer Robert Gardini both re­signed from Security after the five fires over October break, four of which were reported by the two officers. Wall had insisted that they take the polygraph tests. Balogh said that he resigned as the result of a disagreement with Roemer over Balogh's right to carry a handgun, and, according to the Tribune, because another job had become available to him. 
by Mike ShleHs Staff Reporter 

A CLC proposal to change parietals violations fron University to hall offenses stands ittle chance of being approved by Vice­President of Student Affairs Fr. John Van Wolvlear, ~.ccording to Student Body Presi.jent Andy McKenna. 
"There is a 99· per~ent chance the proposal won't be OK'd," McKenna said yesterday. 
The proposal, passecl at an Oct 9 CLC meeting, would give rectors the option to refer a vi(llation to the hall judicial board. Presently, rectors may decide between hand­ling the violation th,!mselves or referring the case 1o Dean of Students James Roerr.er for disci­plinary action. 
Van Wolvlear was >cheduled to give his decision on t !le matter at Monday night's CLC neeting, but was unable to do so Jecause of a heavy work load, he said. 
"I've been tied UJ' with extra­curriculars, '' \"an We>lvlear said, adding that he hac also been occupied by the deat.l of a priest over the weekend. 
According to Jayne Rizzo, Judi­cial commissioner, Van Wolvlear will present his decisi,m today. He had earlier promised a decision "within a week." 
When asked if he had already made a decision, Van Wolvlear said, "I feel I should Jresent it(the decision) to the CLC •1rst." 
Van Wolvlear has two weeks to act on proposals presented to him by the CLC. The twc•-week period ends today, following a delay caused by a mist nderstanding between Van Wolvlear and the CLC. 
"The proposal was not presented to me in resolution form." Van Wolvlear said. "Tlcev were not formulated properly." · 
McKenna agreed that the mis­understanding was the cause of the delay. "I assumed the proposals were submitted, but he expected a formal transition. He got them last Wednesday," McKenna said. 
McKenna sees the clarification of students' options in regard to disciplinary procedures to be the main advantage of the proposal. 
• • A student would have a choice of the J-board rather than the rector" in settling disciplinary matters, McKenna noted. 
Rizzo has supported the proposal because regulation is directed at individual dorms, giving alleged violators the chance for a trial by jury of his hall peers. 
The new proposal would encour­age the development of a sense of responsibility and provide recourse to a J-board trial, Rizzo said. 

[AP]-Egyptian President Anwar Sadat said yesterday the peace talks with Israel are at a turning point and he is sending his Vice President to Washington with a message for President Jimmy 
~arter. 

"We have reached a turning point. If the other side does not respond, well, this wiii be their responsibility before the whole world," said Sadat, referring to Israel. 
In Tel Aviv, Israel Foreign Minister Moshe Dayan said the two sides had made much progress in the five weeks of talks. but they hadn't yet reached "the end ofthe road." 
"We have ended the major main text of the peace treaty, though there are still a few items we don't agree on," Dayan told reporters after returning from the Washing­ton talks. "Two items are not accepted by us and I think about two are not accepted by the Egyptians,'' he said without ela­borating. 
Prime Minister Menachem Begin, who returned Monday from a Canadian and U.S. visit, wiii present the Israeli cabinet Wed­nesday with an American compro­mise dealing with the Issue of 1inking the treaty to a settlement of tne Palestinian question, which has caused the talks to bog down. 
Egypt's acting Foreign Minister Boutros Ghali also returned to Cairo yesterday for consultations. No formal high-level talks w~n: scheduled for yesterday in the absence of Dayan and Ghali, two of the primary negotiators. 
In Washington TV interview Monday night, Carter gave his most rueful assessment of the talks since the Camp David peace accords were signed in September. 
"I just don't know what will happen about it; we just pray that agreements will be reached," Carter said. "We are involved in the negotiations, but we cannot make Israel accept the Egyptians' demands nor vice versa. We have to try to tone down those demands and use our influence." 
Sadat said he was sending Vice President Hosni Mubarak to Wash­ington today to show "Egypt's determination to reach a peaceful solution of the Middle East con­flict." The President refused to reveal the substance of the mes­sage Mubarak is carrying to Carter. 
When asked what he meant by a turning point, Sadat replied, "h means a lot," but declined to elaborate. "I am not speaking today of suspending talks," he added. 
The main sticking point has been Egypt's insistence that a peace treaty with Israel be bound to a committment on speedy talks ovex: the future of the West Bank and Gaza, where 1.1 million Pales­tinians live. 
Israel has rejected this, saying the peace treaty should stand on its own. 
Sadat spoke with reporters after a closed meeting with ls>cal mem­bers of his National Democratic Party in Ismailia. One source at the meeting reported thaf Sadat said he now wanted a link between the return of the Gaza Strip and the restoration of Egyptian sovereign­ity over Sinai. 
Amin orders withdrawal of Tanzanian armed forces 
NAIROBI, Kenya [AP] -Ugan­dan President ldi Amin announced yesterday he has ordered the withdrawal of his troops from their two-week-old "hot pursuit" inva­sion of Tanzania. But Tanzania denounced the statement as "com­plete lies" and "camouflage" and vowed to keep fighting. 
"The struggle continues," said a Tanzanian government statement issued in reply to Amin's an­nouncement. 
The withdrawal order was an· nounced in a telegram to the Organization of African Unity. the United Nations and the Arab League, Radio Uganda said. 
''I have decided to withdraw my armed forces· to the recognized border of Uganda and Tanzania in spite of the provocations which earlier led them to Tanzanian territory in an exercise of their right of hot pursuit," A min was quoted as saying. 
Tanzania replied: "The aggres­sion constituted a declaration of war against Tanzania. Tanzania reiterates its duty to its·people and the Organization of African Unity, _ namely to oppose the acquistion of territory by force.A' 
Amin warned tha~ any Tanzanian attempt to enter Uganda in pursuit of his army would be "dealt with decisively'· and bring renewed bloodshed. 
In 1972 Tanzania and Uganda almost went to war when Tanzania­based Ugandan exiles launched an abortive invasion of Uganda with the tacit backing of the Tanzanian government. ' The Varsity Forensics Team with their array of trophies. Standing rear, left to right: Dave Brosh, Rick Burroughs, Dale Ann Robinson, Dusty McGill, Tom Lucid, Chuck Wood; Seated on couch: Team captain Larry Kenny, Nancy .Weidinger, john Davenport; On floor: Sean Faircloth, Coach Mike Smydra. [See article on page 4] [Photo by Ken McAlpine] 


an indeP, dent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's Vol. XIII, No. !10 Wednesday, November 15, 1978 
To Fr. Van 'Nolvlear 
Council submits proposal 

------..,..-----.-----­
~~-­
Wednesday, November 15, 1978
the observer
2 


,_News Briefs_______ 
t==========================World 
Oil Workers return to _jobs 
TEHRAN, Iran (AP]· Iran's 37,000 oil workers flocked back to their jobs yesterday, ending their crippling two-week strike against Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi. But troops opened fire on two anti-shah demonstrations west of here, killing at least three persons and w~unding 19, the official Pars news agency reported. The deaths raised the known death toll from clashes with security forces in the last three days to at least 23. Troops also fired into the air to disperse a crowd near the giant bazaar in Tehran, but no injuries or arrests were reported. 
1===================:::::::::============:::::: National 
Congress to approve plans 
WASHINGTON [AP] • The Carter Administration has decided to ask Congress early next year for about $190 million to begin full-scale development of a mobile intercontinental ballistic missile that would be safe from Soviet surprise attack, sources said Tuesday night. The Administration sources, asking to remain anonymous, said the funds to move the twice-delayed mobile missile project into a key development stage would be included in a $2.2 billion supplemental money bill forth 1979 fiscal year. That would avoid many more months of delay. 
Truckers halt steel shipment 
PITI'SBURGH [API • A strike by dissident steel haulers slowed the shipment of some steel yesterday as highway violence linked to the walkout apparently kept some truckers off the road, trucking and company officials reported. Members of the Pittsburgh-based Frate~nal As~ociation of Steel Haulers are demanding the right to negotiate the1r own contracts, higher rates and streamlining of state re~ulations. Their contracts are now negotiated by the Teamsters uruon. 
~-_._____ Local 
CIA clerk admits guilt 
HAMMOND, Ind. [AP) • An FBI agent testified yesterday that William Kampiles. a former CIA clerk, admitted stealing a top-secret document and selling it to a Russian agent in Greece six months later for $3,000. Kampiles, 23, is accused of espionage. The government says he stole the operating manual for a satellite surveillance system that can monitor the movement of foreign troops and equipment. 
Weather 

Partly cloudy today. High in the mid 40s. Mostly cloudy with a 20 
p~rcent cha~ce of rafn to~ight and tomorrow. Low tonight in the 
m1d 30s. H1gh tomorrow m the low to mid 40s. 
,..On Campus Today__ 
3:30p.m. 
3:45p.m. 
4 p.m. 
4 p.m. 
5:15p.m. 
6:30p.m. 7,9,11 p.m. 7 J.t.m. 
8 p.m. 
.fJ:15 p.m. midnight 

seminar, "aerodynamic drad of bluff-body shapes characteristic of hatchback cars," thomas morel, gm research labs., warren mi., spon by aero and mech engr., 303 engr bldg. 
christian lawyers forum, "abraham and isacc: a legal historians reply to kierkegaard, by prof edward gaffney, nd, rm 105 law school. 
colloquium,_,addiction as adaptation," dr. shep siegel, mcmasters u., spon by psychology dept, 117 haggar hall 
lecture, "the political economy of collective bargain­ing," dr charles craypo, nd, span by econ dept., galvin aud. 
lasters mass, span by world hunger coalition, walsh chapel 
sailing club meeting, 204 o'shag. 
film, ''carnal.knowledge," engr aud, $1. 
lecture. peggy cronin speaks on "alcohol aware­ness. cavan tv lounge, 
one man show, william windom in '·thurber twt•," >how ,tbout james thurber, american humorist, spon by -;tudPnt union rultttral arts commission. washing­ton h.JII, $1 
concert  . ~·'r1e  rousseJu  ·;,1>nphone quartet,  lib  
aud.  
I  

wsnd album hour, ·'playm to wm · by the outlaws. dm 640 
~ 

Kromkowski to assume new post 
by Leslie Brinkley 

In January John Kromkowski, will resign as Prof. of Government and International Studies at the University of Notre Dame, to assume the position of President of the National Center for Urban Ethnic Affairs in Washington, D.C. 
Kromkowski described the Cen­ter as "a national office that prompts various institutions to be more responsive to the fact of cultural pluralism in America. I believe America is not a mono­cultural society...and if we recog­nize this diversity, we'll be in better shape to deal with various urban, educational, and social pro­blems that confront America.'' 
Kromkowski is originally from South Bend and attended the University of Notre Dame as both an undergraduate and graduate student. After receiving his Ph.D. in 1972, he joined the government department at Notre Dame and served as director .of the Upward Bound program. 
Kromkowski hopes to take a model of Neighborhood Roots, a program at Notre Dame, and introduce it to other colleges in the United States. He expressed his gratitude to the University for its 
Edward Gaffney to speak on biblical story 
Edward McGlynn Gaffney, Jr. will deliver the third lecture in the Christian Lawyer's Forum Series this afternoon at 3:45 in room 105 of the Notre Dame Law School.· 
The talk, entitled "Abraham and Isaas: A Legal Historian's Reply to Kierkegaard," is a literary analysis of the biblical story of Abraham and Isaac and an exploration of the theological implications of the story. 
Gaffney holds law degrees from the Catholic University of America and from Harvard, as well as a licentiate in sacred theology from the Gregorian University in Rome. He also studied at the Pontifical Biblical Institute in Rome and at the Notre Dame law program in London. He also served as attorney-advisor to Attorneys Gen­eral Edward Levi and Griffin Bell before joining the Notre Dame faculty last year. 
*The Observer 
"It's Just another night, just like any other night night." Night Editor: Just Margie 
Brassil  
Asst. Night Editor:  Just Patsy  
(no  wax  please)  Campbell,  

Lisa Lombardi layout Staff: Just Pam (Yaba­daba-doo) Degnan and Mary Pat Ellis (Just no Scoop) Sports layout: Just Solman and "the Streaker" Typists: Kim Convey, Nancy Morris, Mary Chustak, Katie Brehl Night Controller: Mardi Nevin ''Just'' does not apply to typists!) Day Editor: Just Marcia Kovas Copy Reader: Just Mare Ulicny, Kathy Connelly, EPS Ad layout: We just don't know! Photographer: Just Mikey Bigley 
Go Team 4! 

The Observer Is published Mon­day through Friday ucept during exam and vac:atlon periods. The Observe; Is published by the students of Notre Dame anct Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for S20 per year (S 1 o per semester} from The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second clan postage paid, Notre Dame, Indiana, 46S5'. 
The Observer Is a member of the Auoclated f>Au. All repro­duction rights are reserved. 
support in programs of this kind. 
''I feel ambivalent about leaving the Notre Dame students who have been very dear to me over the years and there were still projects I wanted to complete in. South Bend. But, I had this challenge presented to me and saw it as an opportunity to expand the work I've done here", Kromkowski commented. Eventually, he hopes to return to Notre Dame to teach and do research, bringing with him a wealth of experience from his post 
in Washington. 
The National Center for Urban Ethnic Affairs was started seven years ago and has already esta­blished the fact that cultural plu­ralism is a reality, according to Kromkowski. He is seeking to build coalitions in communities across the country to take progres­sive action in bettering cultural, religious, and political environ­ments. 
The Center urges such groups as the Indiana Historical Society to accumulate a variety of source materials reflecting all of the ethnic groups that have migrated to Indiana. The agency locates and preserves• hi,:;torical records, diaries, newspapers, and maps. In this respect, the Center has local outreach through 300 branches in 

Henry Edwards, rock critic and film writer, spoke last night on "The star-making machine -mastering the media," in the library Auditorium. [Photo by Mike Bigley] 
WEDNESDAY-THURSDAY-FRIDAY 
Crafts from all ovet the wotld Sold in the basement of· Lafortun'e from noon to 5:00 p.m. 
ONE EARTH mARKETPLACE 
25 states. The Center itself has a 
staff of SO. 
Kromkowski believes that neighborhoods should be revita­lized rather than destroyed. The Department of Housing and Urban Development (:H. U.D.) has con­tracted the Center to document urban neighborhood success stories in Baltimore and Newark. In addition, they will work with business groups in commercial areas to assist in revitalizing com­merical strips. 
Kromkowski views the center as being closely related to Notre Dame since it is affiliated with the 
U.S. Catholic Conference and many groups funded by grants from the Campaign for Human Development the Center strives to maintain Catholic schools in urban neigh­borhoods and to help ethnic parish­es come to grips with the facts of social change, Kromkowski said. 
"Many Urban Plunge students work at sites designated by the Center for Urban Ethnic Affairs", Kromkowski rioted. "Students are resevoirs of talent and goodwill and should channel their energies into the major new volunteer thrust in America. Ethnic conflict is a challenge, so we must develop in the JNorld a sense of cultural 
[continued on page 6) 

.
• ____j 

Wednesday, November 15, 1978 
the observer 
3 

HPC tackles campus overcrowding 

by Dan Letcher Staff Reporte;r 

Debate af the Hall Presidents Council last night cent·~red around the campus overcrowding problem. 
by Frank LaGrotta 
Screenwriter Allen Sharp slam­med the movie industry as a "system centered around money and said movies are made, not by 

. directors. but by the "people who control the mone} that allows movies to be made... Sharp spoke last 'night to approximately 70 
people in Washingto11 Hall..  ·  
Novelist,  screenwriter  and  
author of numerdus  British  radio  

and teleplays. Sharp "'as introduc­ed by Mitchell Lifton professor and chairman of the Nr•-SMC speech and drama departrr.ent, as "the best writer of westems east of the Hebrides." 
Sharp explained :hat his disil­lusion with the system stems from his realization that 'what's going on is wrong." 
"The general feeling is that Hollywood is out to screw its inhabitants," he said, "and this may very well be the case. However, the systerr is not actively against your being successfull--it just makes it very h.trd." 
"Money is spent ill great quanti­ties in Hollywood t y people who make movies." he said. "The problem is that the only thing they're concerned with is getting their money back.'' 
Sharp pointed out that for a film to be considered a noneymaker, it must earn two and one-half times the original investment needed to produce the film. 
A screenwriter can fail in Holly­wood if his script lS not bought, Sharp said. But a screenwriter can fail even if he sdls his script because it may be turned into "trash" by producel's and director:. looking ''to make the most money." 
Sharp said thts had happened to him. "They buy ) our work, and then cut it to :;eli hOIJh:.g to enhance it, to make it appea'.iJf. This: can be very painful to 1h...: wrirer,"·he said. 
But Holl)"vn.,U has a unique drug--money--t(, ease this pain, Student Body President Andy McKenna told the council that he thought '•a lottery will be neces­sary only if an exceptional number of people decide not to move off campus.'' 

Mike Roohan, student body vice-
Sharp siad. ''They give it to you in very large quantities if you're successful," he said. "Large enough, in fact, that you develop a tolerance for the many other ills of the profession." 
The co-author of the screenplay for the movie, "Night Moves," Sharp said that he had a good feeling about the film in spite of the fact that it was considered a financial flop. ' 
"I liked the script, we had a good cast, the money was there.. .I was very optimistic about the film's chances on the commercial market," he stated. 
•'I guess that's a large part of the reason why I've become so dis­illusioned. The same thing hap­pened to Jack Nicholson. He starred in "One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest" and then didn't do anything for almost three years. Why? Because he wnated to do things his way. I don't think he found the answer because there is only one answer; money," Sharp commented. 
The screenwriter said he's look­ing for an alternative to what he calls "all the sham that casts a shadow on the art of the industry." 
"The dilemma· is to acquire the money to make what you want to make. Get it to the people who want to see it and get them, to tell you what they want to see. I believe that there is a market for a wide variety of films. People's interests are very diverse," he pointed out. 
Sharp, who said his favorite television piece is the documen­tary, expressed the belief that television has robbed the movie of its audience. "And it hasn't been a very good replacement either. My boy watches TV incessantly and he's practically an illiterate J:.e cause of it," he saicl. 
"If I have a futuro tu creative film writing, I'm going to have to find aMther way to do :t.. That'~; my primary reason for being hero:: tonight," he joked. ."I'm lO<•king for a job." ~ president, also addressed the comes and people are forced off, thinking of moving off-campus. meeting, held in Cavanaugh Hall, then the brunt of the active search DelGrande summed up the on off-campus living. "I advise for housing should be done by the debate by asking that each presi­that if individuals are looking for Administration and they should dent give him by Monday a places to live, they should do also do something about the trans­numerical estimation of students something about it now," Roohan portation and security aspects." planning to move off campus. He stated. He feels that problems can The discussion returned to the recommended that the council 
be avoided if students are well possibility of a lottery. Jose should seriously consider a random informed about what off-campus Marrerro, Pangborn president, lottery which would be fair. living entails. said, "I'm not in favor of having a John McAustin, Mardi Gras "Off-campus life is not that lottery but if we do, it should be chairman, announced that raffle 
bad." Roohan noted. He recom­done by the end of the first booklets would be distributed this mended that people who are think­semester.'' week. This year's grand prize will ing about moving off campus McKenna stated that ''a quick be a 1979 Cutlass supreme. should talk to people already off. decision may be a compromise and Students will get a chance to win 
McKenna added that people should therefore might not be the right the student prize, a 1979 Starfire consider off-campus living as an decision. but hesitation could cause XX, for each book sold. · alternative and not an imperative. problems." He felt that there McAustin also announced that a 
Badin hall president Ellen should not be' a panic or overreac­$50 prize will be awarded to the Dorney stated that it is the admin­tion. student selling the most booklets. istration's responsibility to ''make Flanner president Tom Paese Cash prizes will also go to the top off-campus life more attractive." suggested that each president three ticket-selling dorms. HPC chairman Chuch DelGrande return to their halls and try toassess The HPC will not meet again concurred, stating, "If a lottery how many' people are seriously until Nov. 28 in Dillon hall. 

MAGIC 
ATERRIFYING LDVE STORY 
JOSEPH E. LEVINE PRESENTS MAGIC ANTHONY HOPKINS ANN-MARGRET BURGESS MEREDITH ED LAUTER EXECUTIVE PRODUCER C.O. ERICKSON MUSIC BYJERRY GOLDSMITH SCREENPLAY BY WILLIAM GOLDMAN. BASED UPON HIS NOVEL PRODUCED BYJOSEPH E. LEVINE 
AND RICHARD P. LEVINE 
DIRECTED BY RICHARD AlTENBOROUGH 
PRINTS~ DE LUXE' TECHNICOIDR' R~~ --~ (iii). 
C••,.-'-.. 

NOW PLAYING AT ATHEATER NEAR YOU CHECK LOCAL NEWSPAPERS· FOR THEATER LISTINGS 
the student union cultural arts commission proudly presents 
ILLIAm WINDOm 
In the one-man ptoductlon of 
THURBER II 
. 
~wednesdCly, november 15 WQSh~ngton haU1 admia~:on Jl..OO 
Sp.m. 


Wednesday, November 15, 1978
the observer 


by Paul Stauder 

The Notre Dame forensics team is currently ranked twelfth in the nation by the American Forensics Association and the success can be partly attributed to the team's strong performance in the Aqua­rius Invitational, held last weekend in Muncie, IN. 
Notre Dame's team placed eighth out of 29 teams competing to gain the national ranking. 
Mike Smydra, a graduate stu­dent who was undefeated as a collegiate debator in his undergra­duate days at Michigan State, acts as the forensics team coach. ­
He explained why the perfor­mance in Muncie was particularly gratifying: "Notre Dame has generally had a pretty fair debate team. Maybe not good enough to be national champions, but cer­tainly nothing to be ashamed of.'' 
Last year, the debate team qualified for the nationals tourna­ment, Smydra said. "But t~ forensics program here has been pretty weak--at least in recent years. With a little luck, maybe we can change that," he added. 
THE CLASSICS 
FRO 


RCA RECORDS! 

ncn · 
Records A~ 
MUSIC FR,~':' RAVINIA 
~~-~ ~1J 

JAMES LEVINE PLAYS AND CONDUCTS BACH 8r•ndenburg Conc•rfo No.5 
~-~••I... H.,ptiiCl'tofd 
8r•ndenburQ Concertu No.2 ''W.cldlng·· C•nt•l•, 8WV202 
IW-"-1...., betf~bl• i~h•«e~t 
ll........,B•IIIe,Sopt•no 


JAMES GALWAY 
Play. 
BACH Two Flute Concertos • Suite in B Minor 
I SOLISTI Dl ZAGREB 
U\ORAK "":" \\tJIU 1)"~\'\II'IKI't 
TlfE ...t~~~h'~b«.:n~(\~:!~;ESTRA 
Concerto No. 2 in F Minor T•ol• nouvellet Oludes Scherzo No.2'" 9-FhH Minor EUGENE ORMANDY 
THE PHILADELPHIA ORCHESTRA 
STEREO LPS SERIES 798 
$4.99 
T~,tE r-:t AMMES ~10TRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
~ ;.. ·;::··
IIIII.~~_'_··_·__~'·-·----~--~--------------~--~.._...______________________________... _ 
~.-,.; 

Forensics team gainshigh national ranking 
levine coNoucrs Brahms 
Symphony No. 2 
Ch1cago Symphony Orctmstra 

BRITTEN Four Sea Interludes and 
Passacaglia from "PETER GRIMES" VAUGHAN WILLIAMS Fantasia on a Theme by Thomas Tallis EUGENE ORMANDY THE PHILADELPHIA ORCHESTRA 
JULIAN BREAM 
Villa-Lobos The Twelve Etudes for Guitar Suite bresilienne 

Smydra shares the forensic­debate coaching duties with Bro. John Doran, who served as the debate coach at ·Notre Dame High School in Los Angeles for 25 years. 
"Bro. John and I share the duties concurrently," Smydra said. "I don't work exclusively with forensics and he doesn't work exclusively with debate. Even though I've been spending more time on forensics lately, and Bro. 
· John has been spending more time on debate, that's not part of any grand design. It's just worked out that way." 
There are three reasons for the forensics team's success this year, according to Smydra. "First, we're lucky to have some people who are either verv talented or have had considerable experience in high school. Second, the whole group works very hard," he said. 
"Third,' as a group, they chal­lenge and stimulate each ot'her. There's some kind of chemistry there that pushes them to place higher than they really should be placing against some very tough competition," he explained. 
Team members include Larry Kenny and Rick Burroughs, co­captains: Dale Ann Robinson, John Davenport, Sean Faircloth, Dave Brosh, Greg O'Meara, Melody McGill, and Chuck Wood. 
Two debate team members, Tom Lucid and Nancy Weidinger, join the forensic!; team when their schedules allow. 
Smydra added that the forensics and debate teams both would welcome new people, and those interested should stop by the regular meeting every Wednesday night at 7 p.m. in room 5 of Washington Hall, or call 277-5758 for informa1ion. 
The next forensics_ meet Notre Dame plans to participate in will be the Mia1>1i (Ohio) Invitational. to be held Df.'c. I and 2. In that meet, Smydra h,•pes to qualify members of the team for the A.F.A finals to be held next April at Iowa State. 
Workers save 
man buried 
by building 

JOPUN, Mo. [AP] • A worker was pulled alive from the rubble of the Connor Hotel last night, three and one-half days after he and two companions were buried when the nine-story building collapsed atop them. 
Alfred Summers, 30, was pulled from the debris five hours after workers first heard his voice com­ing weakly from a pile of rubble. 
Workers brought Summers out on a red stretcher into a scene bathed in floodlights. A cheer went up from a crowd of more than 200 onlookers as a rescuer waved his arms. 
One of the men who carried Summers out said, "He looks pretty dirty, covered with dust, but in pretty good shape." 
Some 40 workers used their bare 
-hands, picks and shovels to move debris by the bucketfull after Summers' tiny prison was reduced in size and his face was cut by shifting rubble. At one point they talked of having him out in 15 minutes, but it took another three and one-half hours as workers had to shore up the crumbling debris. 
Rescuers dug to within a a foot of Summers and were able to pass blankets through a tiny hole to him. But the threat that the 10-foot pile of concrete and steel perched above him would collapse forced worker:; to remove buckets of debris tn as~embly-Jine fashion. 
There wo~.s no word on the fate of two workers bJ,lried with Summers but he said one ofthe men was near him when the building collapsed. A se&.rch was to continue for Thomas r::dward Oakes, 45, of Jenks, Okla., and Frederick C. Co III, 29. 
,..' ~ 
,.· 


------~~·---~­
William Windom will apear in 
"Thurber II" tonight at 8 p.m. 
in Washington Hall. Sponsored by 
the Student Union Cultur;tl Arts 
Commission, the presentation is 
based on the writings of James 
Thurber, first portrayed by 
Windom in his Emmy-winning 
television series, "My World and 
Welcome To It." He has pc·rtrayed 
Thurber in one-man shows around 
the world since 1972. 
Windom first earned ace!aim as 
an actor in New York where he 
appeared in 18 Broadway and five 
off-Broadway productions His 
television credits include t1e male 
lead in the series, "The Farmer's 
Daughter," as well as guest spots 
on "All In The Family," "Night 
Gallery," and "Marcus Welby, 
M.D." His most recent tdevision 
appearance was in the th"ee-hour 
special "Sam Sheppard; Guilty or 
Innocent." in which he pe>rtrayed 
the title role of an accused mur­
derer. 
Windom abo has app<:ared in 
such films as ''To Kill A Mocking­
bird," "The Man·· and ''Escape 
From The Planet of The Apes." He 
recently completed a motion pic­
ture with Richiud Harris, "Echoes 
Skydiving Club 
to meet 

The Skydiving Club cf Notre Dame will meet tomorrow night at 
6:30 in room 103 of O'Shaagnessy. First jump certificates will be distributed to those who have made their first jump. Anyone iLterested in skydiving is welcome tc attend. 
ND students 
may pick up 
directori~~s 

All off campus students and on campus graduate students may pick up their copies of th·~ 1978-79 Notre Dame-Saint Mary's tele­phone directories at th( Student Union offices in LaFortune from 8 
a.m. to 4;30 p.m. Only me phone book will be djstributed for each telephone. Student J.D.s are required to receive a phone book. 
Rugby Club 

to hold mee~ting 
The Rugby Club will conduct a 
meeting tonight at 7 p.m. in room 
2D of LaFortune. Itinerary for the 
March trip to Ireland, confirmed 
matches, fund-raising and the raf­,fle's progress will be discussed. 
Only members of the team plan­ning to travel to lrelan:l need be . present. Another meetir.g will take place Nov. 29 at 7 p.m. in LaFortune to discuss llext year's schedule and training a Iternatives 
and to elect a new coun :il. 
·j 


of a Summer," which is scheduled for release in February. 
Tickets for Windom's perfor­mance are $1. The may be obtained at the Student Union Ticket Office or at the door. 
_, 

Wednesday, November 15, 1978 
the observer 
5 

ND receives PMM Professorship 
by Michael Frailey 
James Wittenbach, associate 
,professor of Accounting at Notre Dame, was named to the Peat, Marwick, Mitchell (PMM) Profes­sorship last week, for the academic years 1978-79 and 1979-80. The PMM Professors1lip was estab­lished by the Peat, Marwick, Mitchell Foundation. 
The professorship is in its fifth year at ND and has been a significant factor in the develop­ment of NO's accounting program. Jts purpose is to recognize out­standing teaching and research in the accounting field. 
"I am very happy about being 
named to the PMM Professor­
ship:• Wittenbach said. "Hope­
fully, I will be able to render two 
vears of productive service under 
the professorship to the -Univer­
sitv " 

The benefits of the professorship 
are two-fold, according to Robert 
Williamson, Chairman of the Ac­
countancy Department. 
"The PMM Professorship allows 
the faculty member, in this case 
Professor Wittenbach, to be in­
volved in important research in the 
accounting field." Williamson ex­
plained. "This in turn will help the student who will be taught not only by a teacher, but by an actual researcher in accounting." 
Also, as a partial result of the professorship, Wittenbach will tra­vel to Austria next May to talk at two international accounting con­ferences. According to William­son, "This can only contribute to the quality and prestige of the ND business school." 
Wittenbach, who was selected by the Department of Accountancy's Committee of Appointments and Promotions, also views the profes­sorship as a big opportunity. 
''The professorship will aliiow me to do considerable research in specific fields of accounting," Wit­tenbach noted. "In the next two years I plan to do some researcl) in the area of taxation on not-for-pro­fit organizations as well as writing for some professional journals." 
Wittenbach received· his D.B.A. from the University of-Oklahoma and joined the ND faculty in 1972. He is a specialist in federal income taxes, and also the coordinator of the ND Tax Assistance Program. 
Peat, Marwick, and Mitchell, the largest accounting firm in the world, offers only five professor­ships throughout the country. The universities which receive the pro­fessorships (Texas, USC, North Carolina, Missouri, and ND) are 
•generally considered to nave excel­. lent accounting programs, Witten­bach said. 
''Peat, Marwick, Mitchell and 
Co. chose the five schools because 
of the fine quality of students and 
faculty in their accounting depart­
ments," Witten bach explained, 
adding, "They recruit heavily at 
these schools and ND is no excep­
tiorl. Currenty there are 110 ND 
alumni working for PMM including 
14 who are partners in the com­
pany." 

Williamson concurred with Wit­
tenbac~'s appraisal of the "fine 
quality" of the ND Accounting 
Department. 

"There is no question about it," he said. "The reason ND receives the professorship and continues to be heavily recruited by PMM, is that they are happy with the students they hire from us." 
Mardi Gras reschedules meeting 
The organizational meeting for Mardi Gras scheduled for tonight has been cancelled. :'he meeting has been rescheduled for Wed­nesday, November 29 at 7 p.m. in the LaFortune Theatre. 
THE STROH BREWERY COMPANY, DETROIT, MICHIGAN© 1978 
• 

"Do you serve Robots?" "No, only Stroh's." 
.3'~ 

For the neal beer lover. 

.. •.1" ·-· 

i. I I,·, . ·,', . .·:· 
·~-~ ----·----."( 
r Wednesday, November 15, 1978
6 the observer 
Frosh Council

New course will replace 

.............. 
discusses

current Collegiate-Seminar 
by Diane Carey and those in the Sophomore Year future plans Abroad programs may take it later. by Kate Kilkuskle 
Students in the College of Arts "We decided on the sophomore and Letters will no longer be year because the course is an The Freshman Advisory Councilrequired to take Collegiate Sem­introduction to the College of Arts met last night in the Freshmaninar, beginning next fall. and Letters," Charles said. 
Learning Resource Center to dis­The Arts and Letters College She added that students who are cuss its plans for the remainder ofCouncil voted last week to replace presently juniors will take Col­the first semester.
Collegiate Seminar with a two­legiate Seminar, but this year's Members of the committee sub­semester, seminar-size, required sophomores will be involved in a mitted a petition to Fr. John Vancourse that facuses on interdisci­transition which will be worked out Wolvlear, vice-president for ..Stu­
plinary concepts and contemporary by pre-registration. 
dent Affairs, concerning the possi­
value problems. Diane Rice, a junior who serves bility that freshmen be permittedThe Council voted for the change on the Council, said she thinks the cars on campus, effective immedi­based on studies by the Committee new core course will be beneficial ately after Christmas break. 
on University Priorities (COUP) in to both students and teachers. 
Van Wolvlear will consider the1973. The COUP report supported "I think professors will be recep­proposition and will shortly makethe goals of the Collegiate Seminar tive to the idea," Rice said. "I 

program, but recommended it be hope they would accept the chal· his decision in accordance with the rules outlined in duLac. If thediscontinued in its present form. lenge it will involve." 
Although the Council recom­Penny Van Esterik, an assistant petition is turned down, the privi­mended specific professors to teach professor of anthropology who is a lege would possibly be granted to freshmen after Easter vacation. 
the course, it suggested to Isabel member of the Council's curricu­Plans for the upcoming freshman 
Charles, dean of the College of lum committee. pointed out that Arts and Letters, that "regular the course requires an interdisci­dance to be held at Stepan Center faculty from across the whole plinary perspective, and not every­on Dec. 1 were also discussed at college who are good teachers" one will be interested in teaching last night's meeting. Titled "Freshman Finale," the dance will
should direct the seminar. it. 
give freshmen a chance to relax··we want to get those who will "Those who will teach it will before finals begin. The bandenjoy teaching it, will be good at it, have to deal with material they're "Unity" will play at the dance.
and will take it as a challenge," not usually confronted with," Van 
Esterik noted. FAC is headed by President
Charles said_. She said that by pre-registration next spring she The course focuses on six issues, 
Mike Shepardson, Vice-President will chose from among the profes­including nature, society, the indi­
Michael Kelley, and Secretary­sors who express an interest in vidual, art, God, and values and Treasurer Tara Kenney. It serves 
teaching the course. integration.. It will combine lec­as a student advisory body t'o the Freshman Year of Studies Office. 
Liberal arts majors will take the tures and discussions with other core course during the sophomore teaching techniques, such as Each residence hall is repre­year, although transfer students movies, drama, or public lectures. sentt>d on the committee by one 



oble.~

PIZZA g OTHER GOOD THINGS 
student. Freshmen students living off campus delegate one represen­
Kromkowski assumes post 
tative to the council. Freshmen with complaints can [Continued from page 2] commumaes anu will relate tt to h1s relay them to the committee justice." 
work at the Center. "In my through their hall representatives.
One function of the Center is ~o teaching. I've tried to weave the The council also organizes social train VISTA volunteers at various central question of the humanities activities for the Class of 1982 as sites throughout the countrv. into the public policy problems of one of its primary functions. The 
Kromkowski stress.ed that N~tre contemporary America. In my job, next FAC meeting will be held the Dame students can play an import­I'll be continuing this process of second week of December to out­ant role in .the revitalization of engagement in political pro­line a schedule of activities for 
urban America and hoped they cesses'', Kromkowski said. 
Spring Semester. 
would look into programs such as --------------.l 
VISTA. . 
Uther functions of the Center 
include the promotion of national 

collegiate crossword
endowment funds for the arts and 
humanities, supporting commu­
nity-based credit unions and out­
lining urban problems to those in 
government. The Center gave 
testimony that led to the Disclosure 
Law on mortgage and lending 
practices and issued a publication 
entitled "Disclosure and Neighbor­
hood Reinvestment ''. 
Kromkowski views South Bend 
as a microcosm of all American 



CORNER OF GRAPE ROAD~ ClEVElAND 
46 Scrooge's words 17 Prefix: layer47 Gathers in 18-of Galilee 1 Moscow-Washington 50 Girl's name 23 Former British ,connection (2 wds.) 51 "-on parle singing star 8 Cut short, as a francais" 24 "-in the takeoff 52 Old Ireland hand ... " 13 Crane of fiction 53 Darn 25 A la ---­
ACROSS 

14 Synagogue scroll 54 Relief from boredom 27 Dole and McNamara 15 Old Robert Conrad (3 wds.) (abbr.)
TV series (4 wds.) 58 Approaches 29 Young girl19 Part of TWA 59 Dunk 31 Pound and Benzon 20 Iowa State U. site 60 Common ----32 Mature 21 Dixie (abbr.) 61 Skin swelling 33 Civil rights 22 March-command words organization 23 -beer DOWN 35 Fruit-derived acid 25 Give a hoot 36 "Do I dare to eat 26 Sixth sense "-deck!" -?"-T.S. Eliot 27 Massage 2 Yellow shades 37 Japanese herbs 28 Siouan Indians of 3 U.S. mountain range 41 Judge and jury 
Nebraska (2 wds.) 44 loath 30 Pertaining to the 4 Grassy areas 45 Finn's friend wind 5 Wading bird 48 Uneven, as if 34 Fit to be tied 6 -----pros gnawed away 
-------------------------------~--...-----~-------·· 35 Mozart's birthplace 7 Actor Byrnes 49 WWI group 
(2 wds.) 8 "Once upon -" 50 Descartes and
I $1.00 OFF EXPIRES 12/2/78 I 38 Style of painting 9 Ravel composition LaCoste 
(2 wds.) 10 Commands (abbr.) 52 Actor Richard---­
39 ----Scrolls 11 -deal 53 Ancient Gau1s1 
40 Change the actors 12 Rommel's battle-55 Once named
! ANY lARGE OfEP DISH SICILIAN PIZZA ! _j
42 Pretending shyness ground (3 wds.) 56 Kinsman 43 "-Kapit11l" 16 Joker 57 950, to Brutus
1 1tltfl £()UJ)()Ii . ~ I
,____________________________________________j 
\ ·~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--~--~--~~~~~--~~-W~~~-L--~~~~----~------._~------~--~._--~~~·--~ J_ ~._-1 

-~--------------­

the obarver 7 
by Garry Trudeau 
7HilT5 1?/(ii{T. I JlJSTSITHt:1?E IINO IJ/AIT FOR 
S<MilHING 70 ffAP1Jel 7D BILLY KI/.MCKS KNEes. 
I 
7HcY LiJOI<. 

8:15. P·~· tonight in the Library 
Aud1tormm. A presentation of the Notre Dame Concert Series the recital is open to the public' at a charge of one dollar. 
The members include Eugene Rousseau, Professor of Saxophone at the Indiana University School of Music; Fumiyoshi Maezawa a prominent Japanese saxopho~ist, IS from the music faculty of Wichita State University and a doctoral candidate in music at IU Blooming­ton; Jean Lansing, is similarly a doctoral candidate in music from IU Bloomington; and Dennis Bamber, we11 known to South Bend as a local performer, businessman, and member of the Notre Dame music faculty. 
The program includes arrange­ments of a rondo by C.P.E. Bach Scarlatti's Sonata no. 44, and th~ Andante from Tchaikovsky's first string quartet. Norma Rousseau, soprano, will join the quartet for Rousseau's arrangement of "He's Gone Away" for voice and saxo­phone quartet. I 
Original music for saxophones on 1
the program includes the Andante ~ and Scherzo of Eugene Bozza, the I IQuartet of Claude Pascal, Five Miniatures by Elaine Zajac, and the Toccata in F by Marty Paich. Local performers Nick Medich, bass, and Terry Engemann, drums will join the quartet for thei; performance of the Paich work. 
8:00-10:3q 
Wednesday, November 15, 1978 
the observer 

Who's going where? 
Bowl game speculation underway 
Purdue and Michigan 
•

1n 'run for the roses' 
WEST LAFAYETI'E* IND. [API • Purdue's biggest football game of the season, Saturday's clash at Michigan, is foremost on the Boilermaker's minds; a post-sea­son bowl bid is secondary, Coach Jim Young said Tuesday. 
"Of course we're interested in 
.

going to a bowl," he told writers in his weekly telephone news con­ference. "But all our thoughts this 
week are to the Michigan game. I hhaven't ~bought at all of fwhat appens tf we lose, because i you start thinking that way, you're not going to beat them." A victory by Purdue, currently the Big Ten leader, would put the 
Boilermakers in an excellent posi­tion to earn their first trip to the Rose Bowl in 12 years. They close 
the regular season on Nov. 25 against arch-rival Indiana. 
Should Michigan beat Purdue, the Boilermakers could still get the Big Ten's automatic Rose Bowl bid 
if the Wolverines lose to Ohio State in their annual windup. Purdue already was beaten by Ohio State. 
"We're just going there with the idea we can win the game," Youngsaid of Saturday's contest before 105,000 Michigan partisans at Ann Arbor. "We don't care what the score is, whether we beat 'em 3-0 or 40-39." 
Young, a former assistant to Michigan coach Bo Schembechler, said last week's 24-24 tie at Wisconsin is "pretty much forgot­ten. The thing that hurt us, when 
we did get ahead 24-6, I think all of 
d h
us assume t e game was over. That probably was a coaching mistake there." 
"From a mental standpoint, we were set back a little bit by the tie, but we still haven't lost anything and it just comes down to this week. We really have no problem getting ready (for Michigan). The players are all anxious. That's 
really all we're thinking about right now." 
In order to beat Michigan, Young said, the Boilermakers will have to
bl th f b II b h
be a e to move e oot a ot on the ground and through the air. 
"Last year, after the first drive against them, we did nothing but pass," Young said of Purdue's 40-7 loss after taking a 7-0 lead in the first quarter. "We have to be able 
to run on them some to move the " 
ball. 
Defensively, he said, Purdue will have to stop the option attack directed by quarterba·ck Rick Leach. 

Cagers feature experience 
by Mark Hannuksela Sports Writer 

A squad like the 1978-79 Notre Dame Women's Basketball team is one that falls under no real heading It is a team that is returning six Ietterwomen. and one non-letter winner who saw extensive action before a knee injury cut her season short last year. It is also a team that is carrying six freshman , and one sophomore who didn't play last year. It is a team that sported a 13-4 record last year-its first varsity season. And it is a team that added the likes of DePaul, Marquette, the University of Illinois, and the University of Michigan to-an al­ready tough schedule. 
How can one predict how this team will fare over the course of this current season? 
For coach Sharon Petro, this task ·sl not a diffitcult one. "We're anxious to begin our season," stated Petro. "We're prepared for the challanges ahead of us, and I think we are going to do well. Our won-lost record may not be as impressive as it was last year, because of the caliber of teams on our schedule this season. But 
we're a hardworking and respect­able ballclub, and I think that we can fare well against these top­notch teams." 
The Irish will be led by junior co-captain Molly Cashman and senior co-captain Carol Lally, last year's leading scorer. The other returning letter winners are seniors Pat Meyer and Jan Politiski, junior Kelly Hicks, and sophomore Maggie Lally. Junior Carola Cummings is returning to top form after summer knee surgury. and hsould see plenty of action this season. Due to another knee injury, sophomore Ann Smith, a memberoflast year's team, will be side-lined this year. She will serve as tearn manager.
Th t th 78 d
e newcomers o e roun · bailers include six freshmen. Providing height will be 5'11" Patti McManus, 5'8" Melissa 
by Kathy CarnpaneUa Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame women's field hockey team ended their first varsity season by participating in the Indiana State Field Hockey Tournament--where they dropped two matches to DePauw and Taylor Colleges, 2-1, and 3-2. 
For the first round of the tournament, Notre Dame faced the squad from DePauw University. In a game played at 8 a.m., the Irish came up short and were defeated by a score of 2-1. The problem for Notre Dame was an overall lack in organization. De Pauw, on the other hand, played what their coach described as ·'their hest game of the season.'' Although not an offensive powerhouse, the De Pauw team maintained a very tough defense which consistently frustrated the Irish in their efforts to put together an effective offense. 
De Pauw scored first. with 15 minutes gone by in the first half. Five minutes later. Notre Dame 
ND women's field hockey team ends season 
rallied to tie as Carrie Rooney scored. Assisting her was Susie McGlinn. De Pauw tallied the final and winning goal in the second period. 
After being eliminated by this loss, Notre Dame went on to face Taylor-College in a consolation round. In a very exciting game that went into four overtime periods, the Irish were again defeated, this time by a score of 3-2. Taylor
• · J
scored the games opemng goawith 9:50 gone in the first half. The Irish fought back and two minutes later freshman Fran Cackley s.cored unassisted to tie the game. In the second period, Taylor · d · k I d th
Jumpe out to a qutc ea as ey
· t t · t f 
scored after JUS wo mmu es o 
· 
I B ore Darne agampay. ut, N t 
· ff t d t 3 30
redoubled thetr e or s an a :
f h d h If M · 
o t e sccon a , ana~ne Dooley scoring the second lrtsh 
· · h C · 
goaI, asststmg er was arrte 
RoonPy. Heated play continued thror~h the rest of the half, but when time was called the score was 
still tied and the game went into overtil'1•: 

Irish return to The Big Three? Penn N~~1:~::;~ State holds the aces 
[API -Penn State's Nittanyfrom rankings Lions, the nation's only major 
unbeaten team, moved into the The Top Twenty teams in The No.1 spot in the Associated Press Associated Press college football college football poll for the first poll, with fi-rst-place votes in paren-time ever Tuesday. theses, season records an total Penn State, a 19-10 winner over 
20 19

points. Points based on · ·18· North Carolina State on Saturday,
17-16-15-14-13-12-11-10-9-8-7-6-5-fi d f · I 
4·3·2·l: 1. Penn State (55) 1,296 
2. Nebraska (6)  1,209  
3· Alabama (4)  1,203  
4. Oklahoma  1,092  

5. Southern Cal (1) 1,071 
6. Houston 
7· Michigan 
8. 
Georgia 

9. 
Texas tO. Notre Dame 


11. 
Maryland 

12. 
Clemson 


13
· Arkansas 
14. 
UCLA-­

15. 
Purdue 


975 965 803 733 662 640 
555 461 414 
406 

16. Michigan State  337  
17. Louisiana State  295  
18· Pittsburgh 19. Ohio State  251 142  
20. Georgia Tech  141  

Conboy, and 5'7" Patti O'Brien. Three 5'5" guards, Renee Antolik, Cynthia Batte!, and Janet Schlaff should provide quickness in the backcourt. The lone upperclass­man is Martha Mclean. 
The Irish will open their season this Saturday against the Clarke College Crusaders at 4:00 in the ACC. Under the tutelage of Petro, 
the only coach the team has ever had, the girls will travel to the University of Illinois, Valparaiso, . and Huntington, before returning home for the first of two meetings with Saint Mary's. That contest will mark the end of action for the first semester. The Northern Illinois Tournament will open second semester play, which will last until the District Tournament begins on February 22. Last season, the Irish reached the State Tournament, only to Jose to a tall Vincennes squad. A Joss to St. Joseph in the consolation game gave the Irish a fourth place finish in the state of Indiana. 
Not too bad for an expansion 
team. Kevin Walsh 1 
Playing in overtime periods of seven and one: half min.utes ~ach, the battle contmued, wtth netther team giving in. After the limit of two overtime period~ had ~een played, the score sttll remamed tied and the game was then sent into a penalty stroke tiebr~aker. Notre Dame went first, scor!ng two out of five attempts. Makmg the shots were Dooley and goalkeeper 
Mary Hums, whose score was a 
t I r

career fitrs · Tay 0 aIso ma~age d to score two, so another sertes of penalty strokes were taken. In it, Notre Dame was unable to score while Taylor again tallied two, giving them one ·point and the win. 0 11 · 
vera , tt was a well-played,
1 h 

even y mate ed contest. "Taylor
h d d ff · 
a a goo o enstve attack that
d b

was countere y a tough Notre
D d f L d' 
arne e ense. ea mg that defense was Irish goalie Hums who 
1 d 
p aye very well. recording 18 saves for the day. 
. . 
Wtth the!r 1978 schedule ended, 

Coach Astrtd H~tvedt and some of 
the squad's semor members com­bene ttte rom prevtous Y un­beaten Oklahoma's 17-14 loss to Nebraska and jumped from the 
10-0-0 No.2 spot. The defeat dropped the 9-1-0 So~medrs to Ndo.41 w~ile t~ehbtraska 9_1_ 
game secon pace tn a tg race
0 

with Alabama, setting up the 9-1-0 possibility of an Orange Bowl 8-1-0 showdown between the nation's 1-2 8-1-0 teams. 
Nebraska was chosen Monday to8·1·0 represent the Big Eight in the 8-1-0 Orange Bowl. Penn State is 6-2-0 expected to receive a formal bid on 
S t d
7-2-0 a ur ay.
Penn State Coach Joe Paterno 9-1-0 took the No.1 ranking in stride. "I 8-1-0 don't feel any different now than I did when we were ranked No.2" he 
620

· · said. "We still have two though 8-2-0 games to play before we can stake a 7-1-1 claim to being No.1. I've always 6-3-0 said the only poll that means anything is the final one."
6 2 0 

. . · Penn State, l0-0, concludes its7"2"0 regular season Nov.24 against6·2·1 20th-ranked Pitt. 7-2-0 The Ni~tany Lions, who fi~ished second in the final 1968 and 1969 polls and fifth in 1971, 1973 and last year, attracted 55 of 66 first-place votes and 1,296 of a possible 1,320 points from a na­tionwide panel of sports writers and broadcasters. 
Nebraska received six first-place votes and 1,209 points while Ala­bama, 31-10 winner over Louisiana State, held onto third place with four first-place votes and 1,203 points.
Oklahoma's 1,092 points put the Sooners in fourth place while Southern California stayed No.5. 
The Trojans, who whipped Wash­ington 28-10 and booted the Hus­
kies from the Top Twenty, drew the remaining first-place ballot and 1,071 points. 
Houston, a 10-7 victor over T Jt d f · hth t ixth 
exas, vau e rom etg o s
with 975 points. The loss dropped the Longhorns to ninth behind Michigan and Georgia. Michigan remained No.7 with 965 points for a 59-14 pasting of Northwestern while Georgia leaped from 11th to eighth with 803 points by edging 
Florida 24-22. R d' h T T
oun mg out t e op en were Texas with 733 points and defend­
ing national champion Notre Dame, a 31-14 victor over Tennessee, with 662. 

men ted on the season. All had very positive things to say. 
Seniors Hu~s. Dooley, and co-captain Patti DeCoste all begam playing hockey for Notre Dame in their freshman year while it was a club sport. When asked how the team had changed and how it felt to get a varsity letter after three years of club play, De Coste replied, "I'm proud to get a Jetter, but the 
team recognition was much more important. We've had our best team in four years and we sur­prised people with our perfor­mance. It was great watching the team grow... Dooley agreed with DeCoste in that "The biggest thing was the accomplishment of making the 
team grow." She added that, "everyting we got we had to really work for," and she was very
impressed with the dedication and enthusiasm of the girls. 
Hums commented that "We were good for our first year varsity. We were competitive all through the season. and had the best record 
ever at Notre Dame." She added, "I'm very excited about getting a letter, and very glad to have helped improve the program." 
Mary Clair Tollaksen, another senior, said, "People were doubt­ful about us, but we proved ourselves. 'there was a good feeling about this year's team and we were bery close." 
Coach Hotvedt also spoke highly 
of the team.· "The character of these ladies shone through with great pride in taking the consola­tion game score of 2-2 to the final second of the game, and then holding for IS minutes more, and then scoring two penalty strokes in triple overtime." She continued, saying ''Those aspects that come out of pride, teamwork, and never giving up on yourself or on your
teammates were the rewards that 
we reaped from the tourney.'' Coach Hotvedt was very happy with her team's performance and was looking forward to putting together a rugged schedule for next year. 

