


As fighting rages on 
ND-SMC Nicaraguan students wait anxiously 
by John McGrath the Somoza regime in its handling be lost.'' that could fulfill their political that her grandparents' house in of the 1972 quake recovery effort, Enrique Salvo, also a student needs, so they have joined the Chinadenga, one of the rebel 
Nicaraguan students at Notre and the bungling of investigations and a former member of the board Sandinistas.'' strongholds, had been burned to Dame and Saint Mary's are keep­into the murder of one of Somoza's or directors of the Nicaraguan Frederico Tefel, a sophomore, the ground. ing a close watch on developments opponents, Pedro Joaquin Chomor­Chamber of Industry, was a bit said that his family had left "I'm scared to think about what in their homeland where bloody ro, editor of one of the country's more moderate in his assessmentof Nicaragua for Mexico until the might happen to my family," she fighting has erupted in opposition leading newspapers. the situation. "Most businesmen situation improves. His brother is said. "It feels really lousy when to the rule of President Anastasio According to the Nicaraguan are in the middle of the situation still in Managua, "but it's almost you don't know what is going to Somoza. students, the situation grew des­and have no arms with which to impossible to get through to him," happen. Where are we going to 
There are five N icaraguans at­perate this year as a result of fight." Asked whether the Sandi­he said. end up?" tending Notre Dame and one at nationwide general strikes and nistas were a Communist group, Maria Jose Mantica, a Mana­''I know of brothers and sisters Saint Mary's and, according to terrorist attacks throughout the Salvo admitted "some of the guan and a senior at Saint Mary's of Notre Dame alumni who are with student Roberto Arquello "it's a country, including a late-August leaders are professed Marxists, but told of a telephone conversation Somoza or with the Communists," slow agony." raid on the Congressional palace, young people who are against with her mother in Managua on Arquello said, "I remember on. 
staged by an anti-government Somoza don't have any other party Wednesday night. She learned • [continued on page 4]
''What happens when you can't guerilla unit known as the Sandi­even call home?" Arguello asked. 

nistas. The Sandinistas are leadingHis family is from Managua, the the attempt to oust Somoza.
capital of the troubled Central 

Arquello, a second year MBA
American nation. "I have enough student, stressed repeatedly in a money for the first semester, but telephone interview that the Amer­that's all," he said, explaining that ican press was not accuratelydue to an emergency currency reporting the situation in his home­restriction no one is permitted to land. "The Sandinistas are Com­take large amounts of money out of munists, " he said. "It's a questionthe country. 

of the lesser of two evils, but if 
The origins of the conflict are Somoza leaves, there is no question deep-rooted, but they have been that there will be a Communist aggravated recently by two devel­takeover. And if Nicaragua is 
ments -the alleged corruption of taken, all of Central America will 
The Charismatics meeting was held last night to organize for the year. For full story and details, see page 21. [Photo by Mark Ricca] 
SBPMcKennamodifies proposal; calls letter 'an overstatement' 
byMarkRast McKenna outlined a four-pronged The forum, schedaed for next 
Staff Reporter attack to support the proposals last Thursday in Washington Hall, will night. The main thrust of the feature James Roemer, dean of attack will be to make students students, and Fr. John Van Wolv· 
Describing a Hall President's aware of, and concerned about. the lear, vice-president for Student 
Council (HPC) Jetter that appeared proposal, according to McKenna. Affairs. The forum will be mod­in last Friday's Observer as "some­McKenna wiiJ have a hearing with erated by Philip Faccenda, General what of an overstatement,'' Andy the Student Affairs Committee of Counsel. McKenna, student body president, the Board of Trustees to air the The Student Affairs Committee is yesterday released a slightly modi­proposed rights reform. ''The kind chaired by John Schneider, a New 
fied versior. of a student rights of things we will discuss with them York based broadcast consultant 
proposal that he will take before are very reasonable," McKenna and former president of CBS. the Board of Trustees at their said. "I'm hopeful that we will be Schneider was described by meeting on October 12. well received." McKenna as "a sharp guy and very 
The modification in the proposal Student awareness of the issue is student oriented.•• concerns the power of ultimate vital to the proposal's passage, Schneider, along with other com· veto. While the original version McKenna said. His plan for mittee members, will take time calls for the Campus Life Council campus support includes a series of during the meeting to ..walk 
(CLC) to share the final power to columns in The Obeerver, begin­around, talk to students, and get a legislate and veto University pol­ning next week, a hall-to-hall feel for campus," according to
Some ghosts of the past will greet Michigan at the Notre Dame 

icy, the new versio n calls for a campaign to enlist suport, the McKenna.
Stadium this ~turday. Along with the Gipper's spirit [above], 

"system of checks and balances," circulation of a petition, and a ..If we are successful iD oar
Terry Hanratty and Ziggy Czarobski will appear at tonight's rally. 
McKenna said. forum to answer student questions. (coada..t • ...., 17) 


the observer Friday, September 22, 1978' 
,_News Briefs ____--.._. 


Hashish washed ashore 
TilE HAGUE, Netherlands. About 800 pounds of hashish with a 
street value of almost $400,000 washed up on beaches near the 
Hook of Holland earlier this week, police said yesterday. Police said 
they believe the Hashish, which was packed in cans and sacks, was 
dumped overboard by a smuggling vessel forced into port 
unexpectedly by heavy weather. Authorities said the smugglers 
probably feared a customs check and discarded the contraband. 


Mail strike unlikely 
WASHINGTON • With a mail strike still possible but considered unlikely. postal unions sent ballots to members yesterday for the second time in a long·running contract dispute with the Postal Service. The arbitration decision last week by labor specialist James J. Healy is binding. But presidents of the two largest postal unions say they must conduct ratification votes under union rules. The results of the mail balloting are not expected to be known for about three weeks. 
Weather 
Sunny and cool today. High in the upper 60s. Clear and cool tonight. Low in the mid 40s. Partly sunny and mild tomorrow. High in the mid 70s. 
~On Campus Today_---... 
friday 

From Caribbean connection 
9 am 4:30pm 
5:15pm 6:30pm 
8 pm 8:30pm saturday 10 am 11 am noon sunday 1 pm 
1 pm ~:30 and 9:30pm 
7:30pm 
8pm 
10 pm 



Pot, cocaine confiscated 
SAN JUAN• Puerto Rico (AP] • Customs inspectors made a routine check on a Nashville, TN, woman's baggage and said they found 47 pounds of cocaine. A similar check netted four pounds hidden in a statuette bought by a woman arriving from Peru. 
Drug officials say the women are "mules" -carriers of illegal drugs ­that are working the new Carib· bean connection that has developed since authorities cracked down on the old Mexico-Texas route. 
Here there are special problems. Cruise ships and airplanes carry large numbers of tourists to this resort island both from South America and the U.S. mainland. Once inside Puerto Rico, tourists do not have to undergo thorough customs inspections before leaving this U.S. commonwealth on the wty to the mainland. 
The two recent seizures were only minor raids b_Y law enforce­
%The Observer 
Night Editors: Frank J. Kebe, Jr., Scoop Sullivan Asst. Night Editor: Ed Neuert Layout Staff: Margaret Gar­vey, Kathy Connely, Phil Cackley, Mark Rust Features Layout: Cazzo, your old pal Muley, Bo and Rick Sports Layout: Debbie Dahr­ling, John Calcutt Typists: Mardi Nevin, Tricia Meehan, Mary Campbell, Bill Swift, Paula Vernon EMT's: him and me 
Day Editor: Marcie Cobas Copy Reader: Phil Cackley, Mark Rust Ad Layout: Beth Cutter, Chris Slatt Photographer: Mark Ricca 
ment  otttcers  on  the  new  routes  
from  South America  that  have  
made  Puerto  Rico  a  convenient  

jumping off point to the profitable 
U.S. market. 
In a larger operation -which is an ironic twist -the U.S. Coast Guard is now making the raids on "mother ships" on sea lanes where pirates used to raid Spanish gal­leons. Ronald Seibert, regional director of the Drug Enforcement Administration, said these Colomb­ian ships carry as much as 100 tons of marijuana in a single trip. 
Sign regulations announced 
All students desiring to display signs on the field at the Michigan game will be required to present them for approval before the game. 
Students must bring signs to the Student Government offices lo­cated on the second floor of LaFortune, between 1 and 5 p.m. today or 9 to 11 a.m. Saturday. 
A special pass will be issued to students with acceptable signs. Specific details on what type of signs will be accepted, and at what gate students will meet to take sigs on the field will be given at these times. 
He estimated that some 1,500 pounds of cocaine destined for the 
U.S. Eastern Seaboard are smug­gled annually into Puerto Rico from South America. 
There is no realistic estimate of other drugs passing through the Caribbean lanes now being used by smugglers following the crackdown on more established routes through Mexico and other points. 
Most of the smuggling is not done by the ships but in smaller quantities by "carriers" lost among the thousands . of tourists passing through Puerto Rico and other Caribbean resort areas. 
Customs and Drug Enforcement Administration agents seized 76 pounds of cocaine in the first six months of 1978. Seibert said authorities estimate they confiscate only about 10 percent of the total destined for the mainland. 
On Aug. 25, agents arrested Betty Inman, 37, of Nashville, TN, as she landed in San Juan from Caracas, Venezuela. 
Authorities said three of her 14 bags contained 47 pounds of cocaine with an estimated street value of$14.3 million. She also had 
. 
$64,676 in cash and more than 100 gold jewelry items, they said. She is now awaiting trial. 


SUnday Masses at 
CaR)pUS 

Sacred Heart Church 
miniStry 

5:15p.m. Saturday Rev. Robert Gdffin, C.S.C. 9:15a.m. Sunday Rev. Edward O'Connor, C.S.C. 
10:30 a.m. Rev. David E. Scblaver, C.S.C. 
12:15 p.m. Rev. William Toohey, C.S.C. 
7:15p.m. Vespers Rev. David E. Scblaver, C.S.C. 
placement night, mba, cce aud. 
lecture, "the battle on the marchfeld, 1278," by eduard adler, austrian consul general, sponsored by modern and classical language dept., 102 memorial library. 
mass and supper, campus ministry, bulla shed 
meeting, aiesec club, kent kolpfenstein, national director of public relations for the aiesec will speak, Iafortune ballroom. 
concert, "yes," tickets $8.50 and $7.50, ace. 
meeting, "bible study and fellowship," sponsored by campus crusade for christ, howard hall chapel. 
smc tennis, st. mary's versus university of illinois, smc tennis courts. 
field hockey, st. mary's versus taylor university, 
maladeva field. 
football, nd vs. university of michigan, home. 
bikeathon, "ride a bike for the retarded," 25 miles and refreshments, music, door prizes, sponsored by the national education assoc., logan center starting and ending point. 
meeting, nd chess club, rathskellar Iafortune. 
third world film festival, "nuer" and "last grave at dimbazi", sponsored by center for experientia learning and student government, engineerins auditorium. 
basketball, "chicago bulls vs milwaukee bucks exhibition game", tickets $6, 5, and 2.50, student discounts, ace. 
recital, soprano elizabeth humes and penelope crawford, fortepiano, sponsored by smc music dept., little theater. 
candleliRht mass for world hunger, celebrated by fr. hesburgh, world hunger coalition, the grotto. 
The Observer Is published Mon· day Hlrougll Friday except during exam and vaatlon periods. TtJe Observer Is publlslled by Hie students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased tor UO per year ($1 o per semester) from The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second cta11 postage paid, Notre Dame, Indiana, 46556. 
The Observer Is a member of the Auoclated Preas. All ,..pro· ductlon rights are reserved. 


NO VS· MICHIGAN 
Kegger Special at 
WAYNE~S OAK DAIRY PARTY STOR 
Keg Party Package 
WITH EACH KEG PURCHASED WE WILL SUPPLY AT NO CHARGE 
niles mich. 1.50 cups 
3.tapper rental 

stateline line rd. 4.tub rental 
1.271bs of ice 
..r::: 

open 9 to midnight mon-sat 
~ 
0 
c: 


open 12 to midnight sunday call 684-4950 
STATELINE ROA IN NILES ONE BLOCK EAST OF ·US 31 

-~ ·-·-­
Friday, September 22, 1978 the observer 
3 
Patty Wilson given key to South Bend·, IN 
ed Wilson for her "very courage­
tration building. Wilson, an epi­
by Lynn Daley 

ous effort.' • Refering to the size of
leptic, is running 2000 miles from 
the key, Mullen added that he
Minneapolis to Washington D.C. 
hoped it would be small enough to
in hope of raising $2 million for
Patty Wilson, a California high 
enable her to wear it on her run.
epileptic research. 

school senior, was presented with 
Other speakers at the ceremony
Peter Mullens, a representative
the key to South Bend yesterday 
included Chuck Linster, a .spokes­
from the mayor's office, commend-
afternoon on the steps of Adminis­
man for the South Bend Business 
Patty Wilson accepted the key to South Bend on the steps of the Administration Building yesterday. [Photo by Mark Ricca] 
Game time changed 

The kickoff time for the Notre Dame-Michigan footbal game on Saturday has been set for 11 :SO 
a.m. (not 1:00 p.m. as printed on student tickets). The game will be televised regionally by ABC Sports network. 
SMC seniors plan 
activities 
by Jean Powley Saint Mary's Editor 


Community, who welcomed Wilson how far she is from home and how 
on behalf of the Chamber of hard it is to keep going, ''but as 
Commerce of South Bend and people are happy, we're happy and 
Mishawaka. 

want to keep going," she said. Andy McKenna, Notre Dame "People frorri Notre Dame are student body president, presented super. It's super to have people
Wilson with roses and a Notre appreciate you as you go along. •' Dame pennant as "an example of Concluding her remarks, Wilson our admiration for your 2000 mile 
wished the football team good luck run and the example you're setting against Michigan on Saturday and 
for the entire country." donned a Notre Dame sweat-shirt 
Congressman John Brademas to lead off the "Fatller Cavanaugh sent a welcoming message in which Run for Patty." While she couldn't he expressed his admiration for run the whole 2-mile route because 
Patty, and offered his hopes that 
of a strict running schedule, run­the run would "enhance public oers attempting to go the distance 
education and awareness of epilep­included the Notre Dame hockey
sy." 

team, ROTC recruits, members of Kathy Scholl, representing the the Logan Sheltered Workshop and Clark Equipment Company in Special Olympics and a group of St. 
Michigan, presented Wilson with a Mary's women. 
check for $500, and the Notre Dame While Wilson is the main partici­Hockey team captain, Steve Sch­pant in the 2000 mile run, she neider gave Patty what may have travels with a caravan of loyal
been her favorite gift: an auto­followers. Het· father, runs with 
graphed hockey stick. her every step of the way, and the 
rest of the family also run a bitAfter expressing delight over the every day. Mrs. Wilson acts as the
hockey stick, Patty thanked every­one present. She commented on [continued on page 61 
~~--------------::r--------------------~
..•--------------Happy Hour•



I I II I
lLl~~~~-~~?...J ~~ 
I 
1 •:H·r~ IIIN· lruflt"fl 


I DRLONBALL 
I BAPPYBOD 
I 
I
I 3-6 Fri 
I 
open Fri. & Sat. till 
Midnight 
McSorley's Ale Six Pack NR bottle  $1.49  
Pabst Blue Ribbon Twelve Pack can  $2.89  
Blatz  $2.79  

Twelve Pack NR bottle Falstaff $2.79 Twelve Pack NR bottle Old Style $3.27 Twelve Pack can 
Ron Rico Rum $9.49 
1.75 Liter Lauder's Scotch 86 proof $5.49 
Quart White Tavern Vodka $6.99 
1.75 Liter 
2128 South Bend Aw. Ph. 277-3611
. . 
---·---~----. 

i­'.·' f1; 
r-~ : 't~ .• 

FAITH UNITED mETHODIST CHURCH 
E. Ewing nt So. High South Send, lndlnnn 
WORSHIP, ·SUNDAYS 10:45 am TRANSPORTATION AVAILAB~f CHURCH VAN PICK-UP LIBRBRY CIRClE 
10:00 am Each Sundau Tele~hone 288-1777 ot 291-4872 
~ OPEN HOUSE 

enter 

Student Affairs Wing­LEMANS Hall 
Monday Sept. 25 9-4:30 ltRegister for Campus Recruiting *Pick-up '78 career manual *Visit career library-meet staff 
Refreshments Served 
RIYADH, Saudi Arabia [AP] • 
. Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance failed to get quick Jordanian en­dorsement of the Camp David accords and flew to this desert capital yesterday to try to win Saudi Arabia's crucial support for the plan. Although Jordan's King Hussein did not commit himself to the accords, he did promise not to close the door on the new peace initia­tive. Vance's visit here tested the Carter administration's contention that cultivating the friendship of the Saudis -by selling them F-15 fighter jets, for example -has encouraged them to play a modera­ting role in Arab world. _ Shortly after his arrival, Vance met with King Khaled and Crown Prince Fahd in the royal "working palace." Fahd is the real power in the Saudi hierarchy. Khaled takes little part in day-to-day government affairs and suffers from ill health. It was reported yesterday, in fact, that he will travel to Cleveland for heart surgery next Tuesday. 
U.S. officials traveling with Vance said the American envoy's mission is being made no easier by public statements made by Israeli Prime Minister Menachem Begin, 

• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • e • • •
• • 

e RIJITJIL
e A~LOR
• • 

e ~·­

e :• REFRIGERATORS 
• 
•

• e R'ENT CHEAP II
• • •'• 
• •• e $28/ 

• semester
.,
• 
•
•
•

: 1427 N. Ironwood 277-2190 • 
including the 1sraeu1eaaer's sharp disagreement with the White House over how long Israel agreed to freeze its settlement program in occupied territories. 
In Damascus, meanwhile, Syria's foreign minister said the Arab ''rejectionist'' states would move to "foil the Camp David agreement" and hinted that this might include steps aimed directly at undermining Egyptian President Anwar Sadat's political position. Vance is to meet with the Syrians in Damascus this weekend. 
Sadat was in Morocco yesterday, meeting with that country's con­servative monarch, Hassan II, to solicit his endorsement for the accords, reached last Sunday at Camp David, MD, between Sadat and Begin with President Callter's mediation. 
Jordanian Foreign Minister Has­san Ibrahim, seeing Vance off at the Amman airport yesterday, told reporters Jorday still has reserva­tions about the Camp David peace plan but will continue to consider it and has not ruled out joining in the negotiations. 
Vance conferred with King Hus­sein for a second time yesterday morning. Hussein's participation in peace talks is one of the keys to success of the Camp David plan 



Early Bird Specials! 
FRIDAY: 3--8 oz. BUD. $1.00 7-lOpm SATURDAY: 3--12oz. VICTORY DRAFTS $1.00 7-lOpm 
PRE-GAME SATURDAY 7am till GAME Time BLOODY MARY'S 2 for $1.00 
• • 

• 
an outpost in defiance of Prime

•
MinisterMenachemBegin'sagree­

• 
ment to suspend .the Jewish settle­

• 
ment program under the Camp 

• 
DaTvhidplan.. f' h 1 h

• 
e questton o JUst ow ong t e 

• 
settlement program will be ''fro­


: :~~:~remained unanswered, how­
• 
Angry White House officials 

• 
insisted yesterday that Begin 

• 
committed Israel to a five-year

• 
moratorium on settlements-the


• e e e e 
e 
e e 

:•• 
_, • • 
ano iUI overall agreement in the 
Mideast. 
The Jordanian indecision makes 
the attitude of the Saudis even 
more important. As custodians of 
Islam's holiest shrines they are 
regarded as religious leaders in the 
Arab world, and their oil riches and 
huge aid programs give them 
considerable sway over Jordan and 
other poorer Arab states. 
The objections the Saudis have 
expressed to the Camp David plan are the same as those voiced by Jordan's Ibrahim -that it does not guarantee a total Israeli pullout from the Arab territories captured in the 1967 Mideast War, and it -does not guarantee the right of Palestinians to form an indepen­
dent state. 
American officials believe it will 
take the approval of the Saudis, 
privately if not publicly, before 
Hussein would risk the wrath of 
more radical Arabs and join the 
negotiations. 
The Camp David "framework for 
peace" calls for Jordan to partici­
pate in talks with Israel, Egypt and 
representatives of the Palestinians 
in the occupied West Bank of the 
Jordan River and the Gaza Strip to 
settle the future of those two 
disputed territories. 
In the West Bank on Thursday, 
Isr~eli .soldiers dragged ult~a­
nationalist Jews from a mountatn­
top where they had tried to set up 
period during which the future status of the West Bank and Gaza are to be negotiated. But Begin claims he made a commitment for 
only a three-month freeze -the period during which Israel and Egypt are supposed to negotiate a 
peace. 
Nicaraguan students express anxiety 
[c'?.,tinoed fro91 page 11 
guy who left Notre Dame when I 
was a freshman; he is now a leader 
in the guerilla movement." 
"The most prominent men in 
Nicaragua are Notre Dame gradu­
ates. Notre Dame has a big impact 
on my homeland," Arquello said. 
"I have talked to Fr. Hesburgh 
and I really believe that he is one of 
the persons who can really help 
Nir:aragua," Arquello said. He 
pointed out that Hesburgh has 
many close friends in Nicaragua 
and is keeping a close eye on the 
situation. 
All of the students expressed 
their anxiety over the situation. 
Many of them wonder what the 
next step will be. "We're between 
two fires (Somoza and the Com­
munists) and the situation is get­
ting worse,'' Tefel said. He echoed 
all the Nict~raguans, uncertainty 
about returning home, commenting 
"If the situation gets any better, 
which I doubt it will, I might be 
able to go back." 
Ombudsman 
director sought 
The Ombudsman Service will begin the selection of a new director on Oct. 2. Any qualified Notre Dame student may notify Tom Lux at 8777 or Joe Kaczmarek at 3184 sometime between 5 p.m. this Sunday, and 5 p.m. Monday, Oct. 2, of his intention to interview for the position. The term of the cUrrent director, Tom Lux, expires 
Oct. 8. 
------~------------------------............ 

Israeli troops evict West Bank settlers 
TEL AVIV, Israel [AP] • Would­be Jewish settlers used fists to fight Israeli troops who began to evict them yesterday from an outpost set up on the West Bank of the Jordan River in defiance of the Camp David accords. 
A Defense Ministry spokesman said soldiers had to carry demon­strators one by one down the rocky slopes to the road a mile away. 
Israel radio said seven soldiers and seven settlers were injured in fistfights when the army moved in on the unauthorized camp near the Arab town of Nablus. Other settlers barricaded themselves in huts, the radio said. 
"Our people will not go by themselves," said Zvi Slonim, a spokesman for the conservative Gush Ernmunirn movement. "Our main bloc of 250 people is standing together hand to hand." 
On Tuesday about 100 settlers moved into the camp, but the government ordered them out later that day. Troops surrounded the site, but more sympathizers slipped into the settlement. 
Slonim said three Parliament members, Geula Cohen and Moshe Shamir of the ruling Likud bloc and Haim Druckman of the National Religious Party, were at the camp. The three say they are part of the Gush Emunim movement, which has no registered membership, but are not settlers. 
Members of Gush Emunim, He­brew for "Bloc of the Faithful," occupied the site to protest the U.S.-rnediated accord signed at the White House Sunday by Israeli Prime Minister Menachern Begin and President Anwar Sadat of Egypt. 
. The settlers claimed a God-given right to settle anywhere in the West Bank, the biblical land of Israel, and fear a proposed Israeli evacuation of Sinai settlements could set a precedent for dismant­ling Israel's SO settlements in the West Bank. 
The Israeli Parliament is to decide on the evacuation of th Sinai settlements within two weeks. Egypt says it will not sign a peace treaty with Israel until the 20 Sinai settlements are gone. 
Defense Minister Ezer Weizman and Army Chief of Staff Lt. Gen. Raphael Eytan visited the West Bank site Wednesday to ask the group to leave voluntarily. Yester­day Israel radio reported that the settlers agreed to an offer by Eytan to move into a nearby army camp, but W eizman vetoed the deal. 
The government apparently wanted to avoid a confrontation similar to violent clashes between the Gush Ernunirn and the labor government of former Prime Minis­ter Yitzhak Rabin three years ago. 
In 1975 Gush Emunim settlers made eights attempts to settle at Sebastiye, also near Nablus, an area heavily populated by Arabs. Seven times troops tried to remove the settlers, prompting Jew­against-Jew clashes that trauma­tized the nation. The government finally allowed the settlers to move to the nearby army camp at Kaddum. 

SB police take special home game precautions 
by Sue Wuetcher Staff Reporter 

Local law enforcement and sec­urity agencies take special precau­tions mainly for traffic control as they try to insure that things run smoothly for all Notre Dame home football games. 
Captain Jim Sweitzer, of the South Bend Police Department, stated yesterday that there ap­proximately 1SO men assigned to deal with crowd and traffic control Bend Police, Saint Joseph County Police, React Radio men, and Civil Defense personnel. 
He also said that SO city police are stationed in the stadium during the games. 
React Radio men are placed at key locations in the area, and keep law enforcement officials in constant radio communication with each other. There are men stationed at the entrance to the Indiana Toll Road, the intersections of Angela Boulevard and Michigan Avenue, Angela and Notre Dame Avenue, addition, there are men located at the entrance of each parking area, and at Gate 10 of the ACC. 
Sweitzer said that a one-way traffic system is used to direct cars into the parking areas, adding that the reverse pattern is in effect after games. Beginning at 10 a.m., Angela is one way east from Michigan; Eddy run one way north from South Bend Avenue; Edison run·s one way west from South Bend; and Juniper is one way south from Cleveland Road. 
Sweitzer added that the local police agencies take no additional precautions for the big games such as Michigan. 
Harold Benninghoff, maintenance supervisor for the athletic depart­ment, explained yesterday that the stadium is secured the Friday prior to each home game. "Usually during the year there is one gate open for visitors," he said. "On 
football  weekends,  none  of  the,  
doors  are  open.  People  haveno  
access to the stadium."  

Benninghoff commented that there are ushers in each of the ramps and also at field gates during the games. ''Their job is mainly to direct people to their seats," he said. 
He added that cans and bottles are not allowed in the stadium for safety reasons. "We don't bother to scrutinize everyone in the stands," he stressed, however. "We don't worry unless someone gets obnoxious or inebriated, and starts bothering his neighbors." 
at each game. These include Douglas Road and Juniper Road,
Indiana State Troopers, South and Dorr Road and Juniper. In 
Century Center pian s E;.----=;':W;f#W=~=@W=-~=~=/.~~ events for Fall 
Jazz to classical music and laborate with the South Bend Art 
We wish all 
improvisational comedy to dancy Center to present the Warsaw will enliven Century Center this fall Mime Company at 1 p.m. Oct. 29 in ~hanks to an energetic Century Bendix Theatre. This highly­
the Irish Tearns success in 
Productions 1978-78 Series, accord· acclaimed Polish company is a part ing to Director Ron Wray. of the Warsaw chamber Opera and Opening the series tonight will will appear in conjunction with the 
their coming seasons: 
be The Proposition, an irnprovisa· opening of the Art Center's ''Polish tional musical-comedy troupe of Graphics" exhibition. five members from New York City, The season is headlined by a bringing their fast-paced revue to performance by Preservation Hall the Bendix Theatre at 8:30. Jazz Band at 8:30 p.m., Nov.2 in 
UNITED BEVERAGE CO, INC
The company relies largely on Convention Hall. This world­audience suggestions as it creates famous band from historic Preser­instant "magic" theatre, spontan­vation Hall in New Orleans play the 
287-1067

eous musical-satire based on audi­"New Orleans jazz" it helped to ence suggestions for plot, character create. or type of music. 
ttThe Beer Company''
The cabaret setting will be a 
Logan Center 
feature of a nightclub-type perfor­mance, with dancing, of The Wol­verines, a 12-piece band from sponsors Minnesota doing numbers from the Roaring Twenties, by such artists 'bikathon' originally as Paul Whiteman, Cab 
Logan Center is sponsoring a Distributers of:Calloway and BiiJie Holiday. 
"Bikathon for the Retarded" on"Since band jazz in the late Sunday. The bikathon is the most1920's, early 1930's was often 
Budweiser Michelob
important fund raising event of thedance music or created for produc­year, with money being contributedtion numbers in large nightclubs, to the St. Joseph County Council 
Busch Michelob Light
we are offering a recreation of that for the Retarded as well a~ otheratmosphere with the band in state and local councils. 
tuxedos, a "red-hot marna" vocal­
Heinekins Natural light
Volunteers are needed to helpist, cash bar and dance floor," with registration (beginning at 5:30Wray said. The program will be at 
Strohs
p.m.), serving refreshments, and9 p.m. Oct. 20 in Convention Hall. 
clean-upCentury Productions will col­

.• 


.,.&L-_..IItbUJileL:oWJIIbUise!XIrv-Xlliilera.r_____:....:Fn;,.;;..:·d-:;.;;;;;.J.~r, September 22, 1978 
Ford concedes 
Commission unaware of plots
WASHINGTON (AP] -Former such an inquiry would have "It certainly would have commission with "forceful'' argo-sa1<1. 
: 
f 
President Gerald R. Ford conceded yesterday the Warren Commission was unaware of CIA plots to kill 
t Fidel Castro when it ruled out the possibility of a conspiracy behind President John F. Kennedy's as­sassination. 
Ford agreed that with this know­ledge, the commission would have broadened the scope of its investi­galion. But he voiced doubt that a such contacts were made wi 
Cartha DeLoach, a top aide to then-FBI Director J. Edgar Hoover. and that the sessions dealt only with organizational problems in­

Jersey Supreme Court 
upholds convictions 
volving the seven-member commis­

HACKENSACK, NJ [AP] • The New Jersey Supreme Court upheld contempt convictions of The New York Times and Times reporter Myron A. Farber yesterday, and ordered Farber back to jail unless he surrenders notes to a judge in a murder case by Tuesday. 
Attorneys for Farber and The Times said they would appeal to the U.S. Supreme Court--probably today. 
In a 5-2 decision, the state court found that neither the First Amendment to the U.S. Constitu­tion nor a state newsman's shield law protects Farber from having to changed the commission's basic required the commission to extend conclusion that Kennedy was shot its inquiry into those operations," to death by a lone assassin -Lee he added. "But I don't think they, Harvey Oswald. in and of themselves, would have 
"Had the Warren Commission changed the conclusions." known of assassination plots Ford, one on only thee still-living directed against Castro, this might members of the panel set up by have affected the extent of the Lyndon B. Johnson a week after commission's inquiry," Ford told Kennedy's murder, also acknow­the House assassinations commit-ledged that he secretly briefed an tee. FBI official on the coings-on with;" 
the commission. 
But Ford insisted that only ~ 


"It could change the lives of thousands''. stated the world

(try to beat the prices) 
renowned psychic-meteorologist Dr. Part Lee Cloudy at his Septem· ber 15 press conference at Jeffer­son Lounge in South Bend. Dr.

12 pack OLD STYLE (bottles) $3.46 
Cloudy was speaking of the Hurri­cane, which he claimed would pass through the Notre Dame area in a few weeks. Many questions were put to Dr. Cloudy pertaining to the 

12 pack PABST (cans) $3.37 
12 pack HAMMS (cans) $3.15 
possibility that such a freak event could occur. For instance, this

Qts.· VODKA OR WHISKEY -$3.99 
reporter stressed the fact that South Bend is 1,000 miles from the

(buy now, drink later) nearest ocean. But Dr. Cloudy merely smiled, said something about a shift in the jet stream, and
****************** 
uged me to stick around for the next few weeks to see if he wasn't

ALL BEER SPECIALS 
right. Then he added, "Of course. South Bend has not been fortunate

COLD! (same price) 
nough to experience anything like his in the past, both because of its 

ments that Castro was somehow In its final report, the Wareen involved in Kennedy's murder. Commission detailed its ivestiga­
..·
He said the commission also got tion of possible conspiracies, inclu­"a long memo" from former CIA ding Cuban conspiracies, but con· Director Richard Helms on the 
eluded that Oswald alone was possibility of a Cuban conspiracy. responsible for Kennedy's death on Ford gave no details on what it Nov. 22, 1963, in Dallas. 
Joan Aldous delivers 'Care,rs'lecture today 
Joan Aldous, the first Kenan professor of Sociology, will deliver a lecture entitled "Family Careers Over Time" in the Center for Continuing Education auditorium today at 3:30 p.m. 
The public is invited to attend the lecture, which is scheduled as part of formal inaugural ceremo­nies honoring the holder.1 of the William R. Kenan, Jr., Chair in Sociology. Members of the Arts and Letters Advisory Council will be among special guests at the inaugural reception and dinner tonight. 
A distinguished family sociolo­gist, Aldous jointed the faculty in 1976. Her research is concerned primarily with the socialization process within families, and she has written articles and books in a wide area of family life, including the recently published Family Cueers: Developmental Change In FamUies (John Wiley, 1978). 
She received her bachelor's de­gree from Kansas State University, an M.A. from the University of Texas, and a doctorate from the University of Minnesota in 1963. Aldous has served on the faculties of the Universities of Minnesota, Georgia and Tennessee, Tulane University and George Peabody College. 
The Kenan Chair was endowed in 1973 by a grant fromthe Kenan Charitable Trust of New York City, which has established 79 endowed professorships at colleges and uni­versities. It is named for William 

R. Kenan, Jr., president and part owner of the Flagler Systems Companies and part owner of the Western Block Company, who died in 1965. 
Homecoming solicits candidates 
Off-campus candidates for home­coming king and queen should submit their names to the secretary in the student government offices during office hours Monday through Wednesday of next week. 
Applications for Homecoming committee judges·wm be available today through Wednesday in the Notre Dame Student Union office or the Saint Mary's Student Affairs office. A general election for judges will be held for off-campus students next Thursday in the Huddle from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m.. 
Patty Wilson receives award 
[continued from page 3] group's licensed nurse. 
Another member of the caravan is John Loftis, from the Epilepsy Foundation of America's (EPA) headquarters in Washington. Lof­tis is the group's consultant and makes general arrangements so that everything runs smoothly from town to town. 
Patty trained hard for this mara­thon. Last year she ran a total of 1310 miles. In the past she has run from her LaPalma, CA home to such diverse places as Los Angeles, San Diego, Las Vegas, San Francis­co and Portland. She originally planned that her run to aid the EPA would be either to Alaska or St. Louis but this was changed so that
. . . 
she might run through larger c1t1es. 
The start of this campaign was 
delayed a bit when Patty strained a 
ligament in her knee. She was put 
on a slow build-up progran and 
may run "only" around 25 miles a 
day, rather than the 40 or more sh.e 
hoped for. Her epilepsy d'?esn t 
hinder her in the least, accordmg to 
her brother Rich, "in fact." he 
said, "it may help because of the 
excercises she must do." 
The Allstate Insurance Company 
and the NFL Players' Association 
are sponsoring the event in order 
that all money collected might go 
directly to the: EPA. Allstate pays 
for food, gas and publicity, such as 
a commercial Patty made with 
Henry Winkler. And, as. Mr. 
Wilson's employer, Allstate 1s al­
lowing him tome off to run with his 
daughter. The company is also 
producing a documentary film on 
the event and is in charge of many 
other details. Right now. the 
company is attempting to have a 
presidential reception for Patty 
when she arrives in Washington 
sometime in the beginning of 
November, which is National Epi­
lepsy Month. 
If this run seems ambitious for a 
16 year 'old girl, wait until n~xt 
year. Wilson is in the plannmg 
stages of a cross-country NY to 
LaPalma run. 
surrender his notes in this case. 
It found the shield law inapplic­able when it conflicts with the constitutional guarantee of a fair trial--and particularly in this case, because Farber had cooperated with the prosecutors. 
The case involves a major conflict between the constitutional rights to a free press and a fair trial. It could set important precedents defining the rights of reporters to protect confidential sources. 
The decision, written by Justice Worrall F. Mountain, rejected The Times' argument that the First 
[continued on 20] sion. 
Ford said he stopped discussing commission business with DeLoach when the panel moved into the investigative phase of its work. 
The former vice president, who was a Republican member of the House at the time of Kennedy's death, listened as one committee member described a depostion furnished by former Attorney_Gen­eral Nicholas Katzenbach. 
Rep. Stewart McKinney, R· Conn., said Katzen bach had voiced astonishment that the Warren Commission could have been left in the dark on the CIA plots when one of its members was the late Allen 
W. Dulles, a onetime CIA director. 
"He was unique because he could draw on his intelligence background," Ford said of Dulles. 
"I had the feeling then that we were getting all the information from the agencies, including the CIA. Obviously, some information, such as on the assassination plots, was not given to us. Why we wereen't given it, I frankly don't understand." 
Ford said the U.S. ambassadorto exico at the time presented the 

Liquor Store 
This an advertisement 
J-·----------~----~--------------------------------­
(:Reak huRRicane PREOtcteO
Beat the Wolverines 
unfortunate geographical location and because of the lack of imagina­tion of area residents. However," he exclaimed, "I believe that a hurricane is exactly what this community needs to shake it of its present image of a boring mid­western city." Dr. Cloudy defi­nitely swayed his initially skeptical audience with his enthusiasm. Toward the end of his speech, the good doctor urged all Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students to be prepared for an education in sight and sound that could not be found in their hum-drum curriculum. This reporter left the lounge with the conviction that a hurricane the size and strength of the one predicted by Dr. Part Lee Cloudy will have an enormous effect on the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's commu­nity. This hurricane could be the most outrageous event of the year. 
Town !!t Country Shopping Center Telephone 259-9090 
Friday, September. 22, 1978 the observer 
7 
,·

AAUP to discuss hiring practices 
by Mike Shields Staff Reporter 

Racial and sexual discrimination along with religious preference in faculty hiring, will be the subjects of a discussion by a panel of Notre Dame professors at this semester's first meeting of the American Association of University Profes­sors (AAUP), according to Prof. Thomas Shaffer, president of the NPtre Dame AAUP Chapter. The meeting, open to all Notre Dame and St. Mary's faculty, will be at 4 p.m., Monday in the University Club. 
Professors Alberta Ross and James Stewart will speak on both the University's affirmative action program and problems concerning equal employment opportunity en­countered by women and by members of racial and ethnic minorities. 
Prof. Philip Moots, director of the Center for Constitutional Studies at the Notre Dame Law School, will discuss the constitu­tional and public policy arguments in favor of a church-related college exercising religious preference in employment practices. 
Professor Stewart, director of the Black Studies department, stated that Notre Dame has only l 0 black and three Chicano professors on its teaching faculty. He will discuss "The absence of reasonable num­bers of minorities on the Notre Dame faculty," he said. 
Stewart blamed the situation on "the problem of supply," noting "there are not enough minority professors to go around.'' He said 
Holy Cross hit with rash of false alarms 

by Tom Jackman 

A flurry of false fire alarms at Holy Cross hall last week served as yet another reminder to the Univer­sity community that when an actual fire does strike, it may very well cost some lives. 
At Holy Cross, alarms were going off two to three times per day last week, and the malfunction that caused this has not yet been diagnosed, according to Director of Fire Safety Jack Bland. Similar difficulties also occurred last year. 
Bland pointed out that Morrissey Hall had the same problem last year, and when an actual fire occurred there, people not re­sponding to the alarm "had to be literally dragged out of bed'' by RAs. Holy Cross students are also not responding to alarms, and in one of the oldest dorms on campus (some sections were constructed in 1889), this is an added danger. 
Holy Crossalso has no exit signs or sprinkler systems, several top windows are nailed shut, and the dorm has "open combustible stair­ways," according to Bland. 
However, Holy Cross is "one of many'' dorms with these problems, says Bland. "When these older dorms were built, they were built according to the fire codes of that time. It wasn't taken into account what might be put into them years later. 
''In the fifties, the average student had a bed, a desk, a cabinet, a chair, a lamp, and maybe a radio. Today, well...you name it. And all that furniture is just adding to the building's fire hazards." 
Bland said that student attitudes weren't helping the matter either, quoting from an article in yester­day's Observer, which said that fire regulations take away one feasible and immediate solution to cramped rooms. After reading the passage, Bland commented, "It's about time the student body becomes concerned (with fire safety). It's one of me against 5600 of them.•• 
Holy Cross Rector Fr. George Wiskirchen doesn't feel the prob­lem is extremely serious, but reiterated that students still need to exercise caution. On the lack of response to the false alarms, he commented that "there'd be much more running around and commo­tion during a real fire than during one of these false alarms. I think people would have the common sense to bang on their next door neighbor's door, or get their room­mates out of bed." He added that, ''regardless of the newness of a dorm, it can still burn quickly. The one up at Providence College was relatively new.'' 
Bland noted that with new alarm systems being installed in eight 
"'re dorms, the number of false calb is bound to increase. The Notre Dame Fire Department has already answered 16 false alarms this year.. 
In addition to fire inspections, Bland is meeting with the hall staffs of each dorm this year to discuss building rules and particu­lar problems of each hall. He added that RAs play a particularly important role in the event of a fire, the responsibility of rousing the people formt heir rooms who either don't hear or don't respond to alarms. He commended RAs in Howard and Morrissey for getting people out of the building during 
fires last year. 
Erich KIinghammer speaks ~t......~.~..........··~t~;.s.·~...::i~J.... ..... rml~uJoa~..................
..· t~'fl~ce~thra ln~te.... 
by Cathy Tragesser 

"Wolf Behavior, Research, and Conservation" was the subject of a lecture given by Dr. Erich Kling­hammer Wednesday evening in St. Mary's Carroll Hall. Dr. Kling­hammer, an ethologist from the Psychology Department at Purdue University, also showed the film ''Death of a Legend'' in his presentation to the American Scene program. 
The American Scene program, a series of lectures on aspects of American life, is a one-credit St. Mary's course. 
The film presented the lifestyles and habits of wolves in the Cana­dian wilderness and confronted the problem of the wolf as endangered species. 
Dr. Klinghammer spoke about wolf conservation and management programs that have been instituted in Minnesota since the passage of the 1973 Endangered Species Act. 
As director of Wolf Park, a wildlife area near Battle Ground, Indiana, Dr. Klinghammer has been involved in the study of 
Chauncev's is a Natural 
Milk is a Natural 
We use onlv the freshest, 
the University can help overcome the problem by "a systematic search for minority professors and (by) increasing the supply (of professors) through graduate study programs. " 
Stewart will also discuss the "inactivity of the affirmative Ac­tion Committee and higher admin­istration" with regard to the situa­tion, he said. 
Dr. Ross, a professional special­ist in the Radiation Chemistry laboratory, will center her observa­tions on recent court decisions involving sexually discriminatory retirement plans which require females to pay higher percentages of their salaries before retirement, or which give males higher sums after retirement. 
Ross is the chairwoman of com­mittee W of the AAUP, which deals with the status of women in academics, she said. She stated that there are over 90 women listed on Notre Dame's faculty, but only 29 of them are on the continuing teaching faculty. 
The Notre Dame AAUP Chapter recently sent a letter to University President Theodore Hesburgh complaining that the retirement system here is "inequitable and unjust." It asked Hesburgh to 
correct the system here and to lead t a movement for change in the t Teachers Insurance Annuity Asso-t 
dation (TIAA). 

Hesburgh is a member of the Board of Trustees of TIAA, which insures the vast majority of univer­sity and college retirement programs. t 
Hesburgh is taking the matter t "under consideration," according t to Ross. ~ 

r THE PERFEO TimE TO RELAX AT 
animal behavior and the establish-1-------...--------------------.
ment of conservation centers, such as the wolf management plan in Superior National Forests of Min­nesota. 
"We must preserve the wilder­ness," Dr. Klinghammer stressed in his lecture. "This can be accomplished in part by bringing to the general public our knowledge ofwolfbehavior. We must educate people about wolves." 
Dr. Klinghammer urged that effective action to protect wildlife is necessarv. 
"America's idealistic attitude toward endangered species must be transfered into political action," he noted. 
Dr. Klinghammer encouraged students to visit Wolf Park in order to gain a better knowledge and
understanding of the wolf. Visitors ..__________________________. 

Ross siad she hopes "Notre Dame will provide a speedy solu­tion and that the solution will be extended to other universities.'' 
Shaffer added he hoped Hes­burgh would act to correct the situation "not as president of the University, but as a person respon­sible for policy." 
Shaffer also sees Monday's meeting as having "an indirect effect on students. It is vitally important that women, blacks, and 
. --· --• ... 
RIVER CITY RECORDS I BAMBOO PRODUC'I10N~ 
IN ASSOCIATION WITH THE N.D. STUDENT UNION 
• PRESENTS ;AN EVENING WllB 
f 

t 
: 
t t 
chicanos who come here to study can have someone with whom to identify," he said. 
The Notre Dame AAUP Chapter was formed in the early 1940's to represent the interests of profes­sors. It has helped "initiate the process of discussion," Shaffer said, and has aided in resolving such issues as retirement programs, fringe benefits, salary levels, academic· freedom, tenure and student rights. 

RICK WAKEMAN·JON ANDERSON ALAN WHITE·STEVE HOWE CHRIS SQUIRE 
:•i 
featuring a spectacular light show and revolving stage in the round 
•
Friday Sept. 22 at 8:00 p.m. 
f
NOTRE DAME ACC 
Good seats sdll available at the • 
INDIAN summER 
KAmm'S ISLAND 
__--~ · -·· BEER GARDEN 
-~ 100 CENTER miSHAWAKA ENJOY summEfis END WITH US 
LIVE ENTERTAINmENT NITELY VOLLEY BALL COURT 

-'nisc~i~Q¢ I 
I 
Clip this 
bearer to the above savings I Coupon 
off the regular price of a andSd 
~il for

Fish & Moren. Dinner. S.vinp 
~~ Lons 

John Silver's. 
1 1 
~=.<;::.'*r' ~ ' 
explrea 28 Sept. 1978

I ~ 
·~~' 
Good only at: '
I 

ROSELAND SHOPPE 

l. 

~·. 
*The Observer ~ 
an independent newspaper serving the P.O. Box Q notre dame and saint mary's community Notre Dame, ln. 
The Observer is published bv students of the University of Notre· Dame and Saint Mary's College It does not necessarily reflect the poll<'"" of the admtntstration of either institution The news IS reported a~ a(.curately and obJectively as possible. Editorials rPpresent tht> opinton of a majority of the Editorial Board. I ·.. mmentartf''-and letters are the views of their authors ( ulurnn spa< t• ,., available to all members of the community, and :tw 'rt>e PXJH''""'un of varying opinions on campus, through 
<''tPt-.. i~ l'rl' ouraged. 
EDITORIAL BOARD I ony Pace Ed1tor-in-Chif'f Stew Odland Managing Editor john Calcutt Ext>< utt\P Editor B.~rh Langht>nry LXI'! u: 1\,. f-d1tor Ro-,emary Mills I dttl~r.,tl I clttDr Phd Cacklev (',,P\ f dttor !f>t~n Powle\ ~.~ 1nt Mary ., ~ d1tor Ann Cale-, "-evv'> F ditor Mtke Lewts '<t·w-. Editor Dtane Wilson NPWS lditor Rc1v O'Brtf'n SJx>rts Ld1tor Hnc~n Crulev Fe.lturp·, Editor Uoug Chnst tan Photo Editor 
Mardi Nevtn Productton Manager John T uckt>r Bu'>ines-. Manager Boh Rud\ ".!hl'rfto..,tng t-1.-maepr 
Friday, September 22, 1978 
commentary 
The Plan of Action 
This column appears In the Observer as the second in a student gOlremment series aimed at educating students about student rights and the achievement of tbem. 
In the August 1972 issue of Notre Dame Magazine an article appeared entitled "In Loco Parentis: Life With(out) Father•• by Father James Burtchaell. In that article, a school of thought concerning the University's stand in reference to students was vividly spelled out. In essence, in loco parentis means that the administration of the University stands in the place of our parents during our tenure at Notre Dame. 
Acting in this capacity as surrogate parent, the administration establishes rules, sets punishments and directs student life according to what it feels is good for their "temporary children." Although such a stand is based on good intentions, this one-sided posture CANNOT CONTINUE. 
The recent alcohol directive and its manner of issuance, clearly shows the administration's authoritarian attitude. This attitude has existed at Notre Dame for too long. For example. student input prior to the issuance of the directive was virtually non-existent. If the administration had any serious desire to involve the students in the running of this "community:' they never should have taken such a unilateral action. 
When asked yesterday about the University•s stand on in loco parentis, Vice President for Student Affairs, Fr. Van W olvlear stated that such a doctrine has never been an official stand taken by the University and that it is an extremely overused term. Instead, Van Wolvlear stressed the need to concentrate on promotin2; more democratic-type dealings asstudentsand administratorsworking for a common cause. When asked about the Student Government's plan to strengthen the CLC and make it the primary vehicle for the students into the administration, Fr. Van replied that "the CLC has to be a viable mechanism if the office of the vice-president for Student Affairs is to find out what both the students and administration have to do to have the type of community we want.'' 
Whether or not in loco parentis is an official University position does not weaken the fact that there is a profound discomfort with what sudents see as the paternalistic rule of a distant administration. Concerning the CLC, we must recognize the tremendous potential that exists within a body such as the CLC. However, we must be careful not to let the CLC become an inept advisory body whose cries for student rights fall on deaf administrators' ears. We must demand that the needs of the students as vocalizedthrough the CLC are h~ard and acted upon by a 
administration who views students as equals and not children. And finally, let us hope that the Administration, especially Fr. Van Wolvlear, is conscientiously trying to strengthen the voice of the students. 
It can no longer be denied by students or administrators that a real need exists for a "united community" at Notre Dame. A community which in reality, we as students see crumbling under the yoke of in loco parentis! ! ! 

) 

P.O.Box Q!!!! 
Good Work, 
Carrie! 
I would like to congratulate Carrie Ewing for the fine job she has done as .:oordinator of this year's fresh· man orientation program at Notre Dame. Since her appointment as coordinator last spring. Carrie has. worked devotedly to insure that freshman and transfer students would adjust quickly and easily to campus life. She and her commit­tee have achieved that goal as far as I am concerned, by spending long hours planning picnics. mixers, and movies, to name a few; for example, plans for Activities Night consisted or registering and training participating clubs in pro­cedures to follow, preparing a floor plan and setting up tables and 
. chairs at Stepan Center, and man­ning an information table at Stepan on Activities Night. 
Carrie; s interest in each of the freshman and transfer students is . apparent from the time she has .·spent at each orientation activity. trying to meet as many new students as possible, and offering to help with any problems they might encounter. These· new students are pleased with the program, too. Those with whom I have conversed have confirmed my · belief that the program has ben­efited them greatly; one freshman remarked~ "Within two hours of my arrival at Notre Dame, I went from feeling totally alone to feeling 
.. like part of the community.'' > Lam not a freshman; I am a 5enior who remembers the some­what poorly organized program during my freshman year, which did little to allay my feelings of confusion and loneliness"" at the time. It's good to see someone #ltmg the time to insur~ the success of this year's program. 

Bill Fuller 
:.::··<:<·:·-.:·:. . 
tditol''s Note: Jll response to the follewtng letters, · the O~ver would like to note the foUowtngfaet8. The Observer did not release the ·names of the dl11e ·jockeys. Beca•se any ....Uo station Is a pt~blk medium, their names were .treacly lmowu by anyone.who had heard the broadcast. ~' all .·WSND FM broadcaats ·are logged, and these logs an later talned Into the FCC to become a matter of p11blk · record. The Observer reporter tried to contaet the lndhi· duals several times befQfe wrlting his story, but wu11118ble to do so. 
·Mr. Rust never quoted the dlse Imi~Y• u saying they were dduk· Ina beer at the station. This qoote WN. aterlbuted to John F011ter, produetlon manager for WSND. 
The disc Jockeys' views were covered In the Observer· CJf Sep­tember u. 
License to Fictionalize 
Dear Editor, 
Literary license should not give reporters free rein to .. fictional· ize" news events. I refer to the front page article "Security Re­sponds to Call-WSND Disc Jockeys Switched Off'' which appeared in the September 12th Observer. 
With the exception of the final ten minutes I listened to the entire show. Ilaier went up to the-station to become one of the "six guests .. referred to in the article. 1 wish to 

make a few comments concerning statements made in the article: 
1. 
·"obscene sexual references., -in my opinion no such references were made. 

2. 
The disc jockeys in question , never said that they were drinking beer at the station. In fact, upon my arrival I saw no indication that any aJcoholic beverages had been consumed either in the station or on the roof. 

3. 
When security arrived Tward­zick and Coughlin proceeded to remove the hibachi from the roof .. The did not "hibachi in hand" lead "six guests up to the roof of the station's office for a barbeque. No barbeque ever took place. 


The apparent use of "sensation­alistic"' style (i.e.: "while be readied his hand on the circuit breaker switch") is more befitting a murder mystery.. A newspaper that repudiates itself to be a servant of the student body obli· gated to the faetuaJ account of pertinent news items should not allow this kind of "reporting'' to take place. 
I suggest that Staff Reporter, Mark Rust recheck his sources and make another attempt to contact Twardzick and Coughlin for com~ ment. I also suggest that the Observel' print a retraction of that article due to its slanderous con­tent . 
Gene McCullagh 
WSND 

Coverage 
Dear Editor, 
The recent printing of the st<lry concerning the two Notre Dame students who were found violationg FCC regulations struck me as a gross misuse of your newsp~per. 
· The publishing of the accused individuals' names may not, strictly speaking, violate the ethics of the Observer, but it is an unfortunate ·occurrence that your 
newspaper found its' interestin the 
relaying of "good print'' more important than the reputation of these two students. By naming them you have influenced 8000 
pe.ft~ as~~~~!:c;ha~fte~istakes
~tlli;.,t~o:'~:"=~~. 
who are doing the accusing -.nd the 
use the building despite the 
dangers it poses. 
If nothing is done soon, events 
such as the Keenan Revue, Student 
Player's productions, Glee Club 
and Orchestra concerts. as well as 
various speakers will have .to join 
the cultural exodus over to St. 
Mary's. Then where will we be? 
We need a theater here at Notre 
Dame. Right now, we are probably 
the only university in the nation 
without a working theater. 
Washington Hall, with all its 
tradition, can and should be 
restored, renovated. and rejuve-­
nated into the viable theater it ollce 
.. ··;....; 
was. 
\ 
Nicholas T. Madell 
Major League Reporting 
Dear Edkor, 
What ever happened to the other 
three divisional races in the major 
leagues? lseemto remember two 
orthree other divisions in my not so 
distant past. . .· ·...•... 
Granted, the Boso:lt and the 
Yankees do have a great tace 
going. However. there ar~ some 
baseball fans ~t ND who hail from 
somewhere other than the East 
coast..How about replacing the hit 
by hit rundown .of the New X9fk 
and Boston games with the 1ine 
scores from several other 1st or 71'ld 
place teams in the country. . ·· · 
For manystudents, the Observer. js the onlyc(mtact with the outsi(ie · world. It would be nice ifeveryQne had the opportunity to keep tabs .Qp. his horne te~m. 1. will look forward to more compreb(msive journaliSm. by the Observer. · 
CharUeRuss 
St·U·.d.y .Lo· n . .. 
.•....•. . u ge 
....·. 
. . .. . ..... . 
livinsJ 
. . . .. .. ·.. .. ·.·. ··. ·· ····••·•·•················· · 
accused before printing the .article DearEdltor. • ......·..·······•·····•·········.
only exhibits . the unprofessi4:)~ .'am fed (lJ;> ~tth heanng ab'-w.! standards of the Ob8erver•.·· ..·•·•··· .··' this ~ousingsituation~ .·. ·..·· ...·..· >< ..Certa~Y ... ·9te Oblerver.. h~ . a ···.·Being ategqlar.r~ident~fGrac! nght t9 pubUs~ what lt de~ms ~t. Hall~ 1 have nOt ~n able tq · .. put· ~hen senous .~tters anse... understandtbenasty tteatmentthtt·•
mvolvtng students 1t IS better to ...·· · ·· ... · . • .. ·. ·· ·· · . · · . ·. ·.... · · · < c~nsider the privacy oftbe students Department ?f Student f(oust~~ and the. sensational effect . such a has been dtshing out to ~he story would cause before incrltni-students livingin the lounges. . If 
nating anyone. . . · . there isn't room for these stude(lt$ · Mark S7.adlarsld at this pointin the semester, why can't.the·tQ®ges be their permali~ .·. .·ent home?· A number of stUdents ili
Renovate Grace and Ftanhet contend tbit they are being .&prived 9f.. th¢it: ''study area/• even though tfle
Washington .massive Memo~I· Library.stands #·· mere 200 yards a,way. . < 
;~····· 

Many ·lasting ··• friendships .·.·hay¢
Hall· been or.are ~n .. the .process .of being· ·•: made •. Js it·worth separating. the~·· people for the sake of study spac~!Dear Editot-: 
•' ·-·:-:;:-~::· 
AnyOne who ·has taken a good look: inside Washington Han.lately can see the deplorable state in which the buildin$ exists. ·•. . . · 

The ball~ once a elassically beautiful theater, has faUen into 
p·erce·ptJ•v·e· 
·such terrible disrepair'as to make . producing a play there almost .·. .... 1mpossible and viewing one { · ······•••······ dangerous. Attempting to light 
Commentar,u
show at Washington is a exercise in · ·. · · I· futility and constructing sets is . even worse. The abominable ·electrical system could easily pro-Dear Edttor, duce a fire which, once started, I have never . read a more would consume the entire wooden perceptive analysis of an issue of structure in a matter of minutes. It primary concern at most colleges has even been rumored that the an~ univ~;sities than Jim Seifert•s balcony structure is weak enough article, T~e . Teacher and ~e to collapse under a full load of Researcher, tn last Mondat s people. Yet, there are groups ·Observer (~pt. 18). , . · which, out of necessity, continue to I agree wtth what he has to say . 

on the tole of any teacher in a higher institution. although rm sure that others may challenge some of his points. I hope that every 'teacher at SMC and ND read the article (and urge the Observer to send copies of it to everyone of us to ponder or di~uss). ·. We teachers should do a great deal·of self-examination on the pOints which Jim made in the 3rd pa:ra­grapby ofthe article. Thanks, Jim. 
B. larry Stewart 

For· Tomorrow 
We'll be on the 

Winning Side 

. . . . . -... 

Oh behold, two weeks have gf)rie 
by~ . . ·And none of us did really die. Though suicide we did have in 
mind, . And good reason we did surely find. We each kept a good head on our shoulder,. . With foresight that in a fortnight we would be bolder. For you see, we lOst to a team which should have been beat. ·· Ending all hopes for a yea.r without defeat. It was sad, frightening. ~nd unbelievableJ.. . . ·· · ·:·:.:·< : To N.D. and the bookies, uncon· ceivable. The following's what happened. I say with regret, · But optimism allows it with my brow .free of sweat. The Tigers ate the Irish, and won itthree-zip, ·..·.· ..... Not once in the game did wel®k
like we'd rip. ··. ··· ··· ·· Qh, rip we sure did, but right down the seams, And ended on the wrong side .of the scoring of the both teams. But1 Michigan we'll trounf;:e upon. on this you can bet, . Making their namesakes reseln· bled a tarned pet. We'll wallop their bodies~ .and tear ()f{.their hides. . . • ) · Alld throw them around and take them for rides. · .· .. ) > . So get reaqy and rough, .put pleasedo.abide, · . ·.. ?i For tomorrow now we'll be ()ri the winning side. Gene Bluu 
Hosting 
Michigan); 
State 


I wish .to remark upori The Observer article in which is set forth the shabby news that two OSU fanatics have c::hosen to devOte their patently finite imaginations to the creation and distribution of "Wipe Michigan'' toilet paper. We Jearn that this noble enterpri;:e is inspired as, presumably,. scat­ological retaliation to equally taSte­less creations by U of M "stud· ents1' prior to a previous OSU­Michigan orgiastic display of nat­ional folly. 
It is my fopd hope that the ND student body will exercise ····good taste in this matter by resisting the temptation to .participate ·in jJIJd thus propagate an atavism wf®}j, w bile seemingly appropriate to t1je Big-10/Big 8 mentality~ must sn;t:­ly be scorned here. .... /.· 
JUte~ J. C'Mbefty 

seriously folks 
Somoza or else 

iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~ art bu c hwaId 
Washington -A well-known colum­
nist came mto my office the other 
day and asked, "Who are you for, 
Somoza or the commies in Nicara­
gua?" 
"Why do I only have a choice 
between a dictator and the Com­
munists? Why can't I be for 
Lopez?" 
"Who's Lopez?" 
"I don't know who Lopez is. Let's say he's the guy in the middle who hates Somoza and can't stand the Communists." 
"Because Lopez would get eaten up by the Commies. If you're for the American interests in Central America you have to be for Somoza.'' 
"I don't want to be for Somoza. He's a tyrant and from what I read, a crook. He's milked the country dry for 40 years. I hope he gets bounced out on his ear.'' 
"What he is and what he does is not our concern. Do you realize if the other side kicks Somoza out, the commies will have a dagger pointing right at the Panama Canal?" 
"Maybe so. But it's obvious Somoza can't hold on much longer, and we should see to it that Lopez is pro-American too. We're not going to do it if we keep training Somoza's national guard officers to shoot the Nicaraguan people.'' 
"So what you're saying is that we should get in bed with Castro?" 
"I'm saying no such thing. All I'in saying is that I don't see why we always have to support a military junta when the people want to throw the rascals out.'' 
"It's quite simple. Most of the generals in South America have been trained at West Point, inclu­ding Somoza. They speak good English and you can do business 


commentary ~~~!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~!!!!!!!!!!!!!~!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
Apoliticality and Notre Dame 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii kevinf I yn n 
Emil Faber College and similar institutions rnotwithstanding.• one of the idealistic conceptions of a college is that it is the focus of the intellectual curiosities of men and women who are at a very energetic stage in their lives. It is not unreasonable to assume that this curiosity should be directed occa­sionally to the events of the day, and that, if a college student takes seriously his role as both a citizen and human being, he will attempt to remain as well informed as is possible in a relatively isolated college town. 
This is at least my conception of the idyllic college existence. and because of this I must say that I was disappointed by the reaction of fellow students to the announce­ment on Sunday, September 17 of the Israel-Egypt peace agreement. 
In the first place, because I was away from my room when the news first broke, I didn't hear anything about it until about an hour after the announcement was made by Carter, Begin and Sadat. When I finally heard a brief, incomplete account (in a priest's sermon at Mass), I returned to my dorm and attempted to find someone who might be able to fill in the missing details. After twenty minutes of responses which ranged from shrugged shoulders to mumbles of ''who cares,'' I found someone who had seen the televised news confe· renee and who reported that the prevailing sentiment among his 
friends  was  indignation:  · that  
"Battlestar Galactica"  was  being  
pre-empted.  

The sluggish spreading of the year's biggest news story cannont be attributed to faulty word-of­mouth communication~. our halls; with them. You let the people take over and you'll have another Cuba in six months." 
"Not if we support Lopez," I said. ''The reason the Commies have a chance of taking over is because the people know we're on Somoza's side." 
"You're living in a dream world.'' the columnist said. "Lo­pez doesn't have the strength to run a middle-of-the-road govern· ment.•• 
"He would if we gave him as much military hardware as we've given Somoza. The only thing that's keeping Somoza in power is the stuff we've sold him. Why can't we give it toLopez?" 
''Because if we give the stuff to Lopez it will eventually fall into the hands of the Commies when they topple him. Tl}e only way Lopez can stay in power is by being anti-American." 
"The people of Nicaragua are only anti-American because they know we support Somoza. If we said we were supporting Lopez we wouldn't get ourselves in a Marxist box." 
''How can you be so sure of Lopez? We know what we've got with Somoza. He may be an s.o.b. but he's OUR s.o.b." 
''So that means we have to support s.o.b.'s all over the world because it's in our best interests?" 
"Every  time  we  don't  we  get  
another Allende.''  
''But  he  was  elected  by  the  

people and we knocked him off. •• "With good reason: We haven't had to worry about Chile since.'' "I'm not going to support Somo· za no matter what you say.'' 
"Okay, but when Lopez national­izes the United Fruit Co.•'' my friend c;;llid, "don't come crvin2 to 
me." [c] Los Angeles Times Syndicate 

witness how active the informal teletype machine is when someone gets too drunk at a section party or when a fist fight breaks out between roommates. And apathe­tic responses were heard even from those who had seen the televised news conference, so the supposed "isolation" of South Bend from the rest of the nation cannot be blamed. The reaction which I encountered can be attributed to a depressing apoliticality which is characteristic of this campus and possibly of this entire college generation. 
Before I am criticized for issuing a blanket indictment on the basis of an experience with a limited nom· her of students in one dorm, let me say that this was just the most recent indication of what I see as a college phenomenon. I have made this judgment on the basis of encounters with other students from other halls and from other campuses and from a disillusioning set of statistics -showing, for example, the relatively low voting turnouts among young adults. And before anyone claims that people are "tired" of the Middle East issue and therefor animated reac­tions were not to be expected, I note that dozing citizens should be awakened by a shock which a totally unforeseen, albeit tentative, Israel-Egypt agreement surely qualifies as. 
What many political discussions come down to among inner-directed students in the ''me decade" is the question, "How is it going to affect me?'' A dishearten­ingly large number of the question· ers are demanding "effects,. so personally direct that it is hard to convince them to .even. read a newspaper, let alone register to vote. It is possible, however, to interpret this question quite strictly and still justify taking at least a passing interest in Middle Eastern affairs. I must conclude, for example, that anyone who dis­missed last Sunday's story with a "who cares" does not drive a car and thus would have no worries during the oil embargo which would inevitably accompany a Middle East war. 






It should be obvious, though, that "direct effects" should not be demanded by people whose l major function in life at this moment is to learn as much as possible about their world. One of the ends of the process of education is an aware­ness of the commonality of human beings and the basic similarities of civilizations, and students should be especially interested in world developments because we should be learning to emphathize with the earth's victors and victims. In other words; an uninformed stu· dent lacks not only curiosity, but imagination as well. 
The apoliticality of the college generation of the late 1970's has been compared to that of the 19SO•s. It is therefore appropriate to conclude this column with a quote from a political novel pub· lished in 1956, Edwin O'Connor•s "The Last Hurrah:" (Maybe you've heard of it.) 
''He sometimes wondered, when he talked to his sons, whether they who seemed to have overcome so many of the old passionate preju­dices oftheir ancestors had not also managed to overcome some of their old passionate virtues. In these neutral, tolerant times, did anyooe ~ally feel deeply about anything?" 

> . 


God 
The Balms in Gilead 


Did you ever sense, among alumni corning young men. back for a football game, that along with I remember one shimmering moment of souvenir-searching at the bookstore and faith that happened in New York at the end the picture-snapping at the Grotto, some of ofthe summer. As I stepped out of a taxi the Old Grads are searching for the onto the sidewalk in front of the old Allied experiences that belong to religious faith & Chemical Tower in Times Square, a black Notre Dame, the Emerald City, God's woman began to sing. Her song contra­green and holy acres; Jerusalem and dicted all the human mischief that makes Canterbury and the Isle of the Blessed; New York sick ... City of the Blessed Sacrament, Mary's 
I sing tJ~cause I'm happy--I sing because dowry. the chapel watched by hermits 

-'i'm free

where the Holy Grail is kept. Under the cheering for victories and the chants that His eye is on the sparrow, and I know he claim us to be Number One--after the final 
watches me. 

echo has been shaken down from a broken firmament--the Old Grad looks at lakes and Great God almighty, what an absurd affir­searches faces, hoping for a glimpse of mation to bounce off the buildings in Times needed glory. Square. In Rome that afternoon, a new 
One's religious faith is shaped out of so Pope had just been elected, and church 
much beauty: night skies seen from a bells were ringing throughout the world. mountaintop; the tiny shape of a baby's But a hundred thousand church bells hand; the softness of a woman's cheek couldn't be as beautiful as one black beneath our fingertips; the green earth on woman at peace with the Lord, singing like a summer's morning; the love of a friend a lark inheriting the sky.who stands by us when we fail. Faith also Faith experiences are as irregular as light­
has its darker moods, learned in the crises ning. You can't trap them into a schedule. that we feared would kill us. Most of us They would seem like muggers jumpingsurvive pain, even when our heartbreak is out of the darkness if they were not so from the death of children. Forever lovely, taking you by surprise, delightingafterwards, we suffer the wounds, but we you in ways you could never expect, as have heard news that there is a balm in when you turn the corner of the road by the Gilead. Gilead, for some Old Grads, seems ROTC building, and find that the moon­like a place lit by candles that they knew as light has filled St. Mary's lake with silver. 
Baseball; September 24; 1pm. Jake Kline Field:ND vs. Xavier. September 29; Jpm. Jake Kline Field. ND vs. Bradley. 
Football; September 23; 12 noon. ND Stadium. ND vs. Michigan -the Irish massacre of the Midwest Gag Bunch. 
Fleld Hockey; September 23; llarn. Mad­aleva Field. SMC vs. Taylor University. 
Tennis; September 23;10am. St. Mary's. vs. Northern Illinois University. 
~ketball; September 24; 7:30pm. ACC. Chicago Bulls vs. Milwaukee Bucks. Tickets sell for $6, $5, and $2.50. With student ID, tickets are $1 off. This is a ch~nce to see Scott May, Kent Benson, and Qumn Buckner, all from Indiana Univer­sity's National Championship team ofthree years ago, mix it up between themselves and the big boys. 

On Campus 
Other Boogie movies ., 
Student Union Plant Sale; September 22; Tbe.French Connedion; September 28, 29;3:30-5pm: Lafortune Ballroom. Need 7, 9, llpm. Engineering Auditorium. 
some plants? If so. this sale is a must. A Starring Gene Hackman. Film Version ofwide variety of plants (not wide enough, the .New York police's bust of a majorhowever. to suit me --ahem) at reasonable heroin ring. Fine acting and even finerprices. 
cinematography. 


Butch Cassidy and the Sunclaace Kid; September 26,27; 7, 9, llpm. Engineering Auditorium. Starring Paul Newman, Robert Redford, Katherine Ross. A sentimental look at the "Hole-in-the-Wall" Gang, its leaders, their problems, joys, and deaths. All three stars render exceUent performances in a flick that should be seen at least once. 
Last Grave at Dlmbeu; September 24, 25; 7:50, 10:50. Naer; September 24, 25; 6:30, 9:30pm. Engineering Auditorium. The Third World Film Festival continues this week with two more outstanding films. 
Admission is free. 

'~ ~-l' 'f •.,_ •• _-. 
t. --~ ·~·· 1"-., ~ ~ 
Reverend Robert 

Old Grads would resent it, I think, ifyou came to this game so that I could get a said you thought of them as pilgrims on the Notre Dame priest to hear my confession. road to Mecca. Yet even when they're It's been a helluva long time, Father, and stumbling around the quads, looking for I'll miss the game if you'll just hear my classmates who have brought extra ice, confession." Suddenly you know it's not they keep casting sideward glances, peer­just a football game being played in the ing at initials on the sycamores that will stadium; it is also a religious festival. It's a excite them with nostalgia. After Mass at homecoming where prodigals are seeking Sacred Heart in the late afternoon, they the embrace of a father's arms. will tell you: ''The Mass was more Undergraduates don't need souvenirs from unforgettable than the game; the church is the bookstore nor pictures of the Grotto. more wonderful than the stadium. This is Faith, at the undergraduate age, is still what we really came for. This is what I being separated from the fantasies of wanted my wife and kids to see." Half childhood. Innocence, if it has been lost, truths with no harm in them, I think, has only been a little lost; guilt is not yet a proving that O'Hara as well as Rockne daily nag defeating peace. Pain is mostly could start a tradition that makes Notre an experience encountered at funerals in Dame a place to want to feel hugged by. other student's families. All the balms of 
Sometimes on a football Saturday, Notre Gilead are more easily attainable at Aspen Dame seems like a place you don't really and Ft. Lauderdale. need. You can't stand the noise of stereos But someday you may need the place as stuck out the window, and you are driven much as any Old Grad who has brought his crazy with embarassment that you can't grandchildren to watch the sun making remember names. The strangers who look haloes around the Blessed Mary's head. so familiar turn out to be your college There are other games than football that roommates. They're so disappointed you Domers play. We don't win all the couldn't remember so dear a truth as who victories, but we can win the important they are, they are going to change the victories, the final victories. To win names of the kids they've called after victories, sometimes, you should go back to you. Just when you are at the point of the place where you started. Beginning calling for security to blow out the candles again , I suspect, for some Old Grads, is and send horne the mob, some red-faced the inner grace that the outward signs of a Catholic tells you in an Irish whisper: "I football weekend are all about. 
Iars 

Louie's, Goose's Nest, Nlclde's, Corby's, Bridget McGuire's; What can be said about these places? If you like to stand in crowds, have people step on your feet and spill beer on your shirt, go to it. When there aren't gigantic crowds, these bars are good for a few beers. 
Vegetable Buddies; This week: September 22, 23--Son Seals Blues Band; September 25,26--Three original plays by South Bend playwrights; September 27, 28--Bryan Lee and the State Street All-Stars, a blues band from Madison, Wisconsin; Septem­ber 29, 30--Ralph Stanley and the Clinch Mountain Boys, good bluegrass. Again, 
Senior Bu; If you're an underclassman, forget it-they check IDs pretty tough. But if you're 21 and an alumni or senior, this is the place to get happy with your class­mates. Operator Mike Schlageter and Co. offer a really swingin' time. 
Cinnebar's; South Bend's only disco (and that's a real shame). Three other shames: a dance floor that accomodates 17 people standing still; overpriced drinks; and a ventilation system that blows warm air onto the dance floor. But ifgetting dressed up and dancing to good disco is for you, then this is the place to go. 
Nunzio; Forum Cinema 1; 6:45, 9:19 tonight; 1:45, 4:00, 6:45, 9:10 Sat. and Sunday. the ad says "triumphant," "touching," "memorable," and "moving," -but I don't really know what its all about as yet. Stars David Proval and Morgana King. 
Animal House; 1:30, 3:40 5:45, 7:50, 10 pm. Town and Country I. Starring John Belushi. Crazy, hilarious, raunchy, good. All this and more from "Saturday Night's" resident nut, and Second City's outrageous Harold Remus. Collegiate humor at its best. 
Toga! Toga! Toga! 
PIS (Channei U) 
Public Broadcatlng Service (channel34) "Firing Line"; September 24, 4 pm. "The Mission of the Pope" is the topic when Dr. Malachi Martin, author of 1be Final Conclave and advisor to Pope John XXIll, joins William F. Buckley. 
[Continued on page IS) 


Friday, September 22, 1978 the observer 11 


ichi 
ani 
Notre Dame to battle fifth-ranked Wolverines 
--··--·-·----------------------------------------------· 
I 

I In the 1943 clash between NO and Michigan, Creighton Miller[#37) went66yardsfora NO touchdown on the first play from scrimmap.
I 
by Tony Pace Editor-In-Chief 

It has been 35 years since Notre Dame 
and Michigan have done battle on the 
gridiron, but tomorrow's game may well 
be worth the wait. 
Michigan is ranked fifth in the AP poll 
courtesy of a 31-o whitewash of Illinois 
last Saturday, while the Irish are listed in 
the 14 position by the pollsters. Of 
course, if the Irish had not dropped their 
opener to Missouri, they too would have 
been in the top ten. 
The Wolverines are a very fast team, 
both offensively and defensively. 
Rich Leach returns to lead the UM point-producers. Leach has started at quarterback for each of the past three seasons. He was named All-Big Ten quarterback each of the last two seasons and was a second team All-America choice in 1977. He figures to be a top Heisman candidate this year. Leach already holds the Michigan mark for career total offense and he should add greatly to that total this year. 
Leach is joined in the backfield by two seasoned ball carriers, Harlan Huckleby and Russell Davis. Huckleby has galloped for '1883 yards ·coming into the 1978 season and places third on the Wolverine list of average per carry with a 5.4 mark. Davis, a 220 pound fullback, is right behind Huckleby with 1867 career yards rushing. Both ilre three­year lettermen. 
When Leach wants to put the ball in the air, his main targets will be junior wingback Ralphy Clayton and sopho­more split end Rodney Feaster. Clayton caught 24 passes for 277 yards and two touchdowns last year while Feaster saw only limited action. Tight end Gene Johnson, who attended the same high school as Leach, is also a good target. 
Up front the Wolverines are shallow. Tackle Bill Dufek, who missed all of last season, is out tor at least six weeks with a broken bone in his foot. Also the much pubI icized ·Pro Franchise" Iine of last season has graduated. Coach 8o Schembechler must replace two All­Americans and one first round NFL draft choice. The tackles should be Jon Geisler and Dan Kwiatkowski, Greg Bartnik and John Arbegnin will be at guard and Steve Nauta will be the 
center. 
As important as Leach is to the UN offense, Ron <;impkins is to the Wolve­rine defense. Simpkins is the 6-2, 225 pound junior linebacker was named All-Big Ten last season after setting a Michigan record for tackles. He started off the 1978 season right where he left off, with 13 solo tackles and 4 assists against the lllini. 
The other linebacker in Michigan's 5-2 defensive alignment is Mel Owens. Owens has seen only limited action prior to this season. 
The 5-man line features three down linemen and two stand up defenders. Nose guard Dale Keitz is flanked by tackles Curtis Greer and Chris Godfrey. The two outside linemen, Jerry Meter and Tom Seabron, are very active. Each of them had a pair of tackles for negative yardage in the Wolverines gaining victory. Meter was moved to the outside position last spring after playing at linebacker in the 1977 season. 
Junior Mike jolley is the only return­ing starter in the secondary. He should be joined by junior Mike Harden and senior Mark Braman. The Wolf back is junior Gene Bell. 

Senior Gre_g Willner will handle both the punting and place kicking chores. Last year he connected on 42 of 44 PAT's but only 3 of 12 field goals. Willner did not punt last year but he had little trouble last Saturday as he boomed 6 punts for a 40.6 yard average. 
The starting offensive unit for Notre Dame will be the same unit that started against Missouri with the exception of Tim Huffman playing at right guard in the place of injured Jim Hautman. Quarterback Joe fv1ontana will be looking to get the first Irish points on the board for the 1978 season. His chief passing target could be wingback Pete Holohan. 
The converted quarterback h~uled in five Montana aerials in the Missouri contest. Jerome Heavens and Vagas Ferguson will again do most of the ball carrying. 
The opening defensive unit should be the same as that of the Missouri game, anchored by tackles Mike Calhoun and Jeff Weston, linebackers Bob Colic and Steve Heimkriter and safety Jim Browner. 
Michigan coach Schembechler has been trying to play down the importance of the game to his players, but Notre Dame coach Dan Devine sees this as Michigan's biggest game this season. 
Tomorrow's game will be televised to roughly 80 percent of the country, courtesy of ABC. Because of television, game time has been moved from the normal 1:30 EST to noon. 
ND, Michigan resume series after 35 years 
bv Mike Henry Sports Writer 

It is a well-kept secret that coaches Woody Hayes of Ohio State and Bo Schembechler of Michigan disdain inter­sectional games, since a blemish in one virtually ends their title hopes. Experts 
· affirm that the Big Ten is one of the weaker conferences anyway, and Hayes and Schembechler, more than anybody, realize this and dread games against teams like Penn St. and Notre Dame. It should come as no surprise, then, that tomorrow's showdown between the Wolverines and the Irish is the first such meeting since 1943. The series is scheduled to run until1990 with only two interruptions. 
Michigan leads the series 9-2, with nine of the contests being played when college football was in its embryonic stage. As a matter of fact, in 1887, Michigan traveled to South Bend, taught the game to some eager Domers, and then whipped them 8-D. Two games were played between the teams in 1888, Michigan winning both in an era when touchdowns counted for four points and field goals for five. 
, Ten years later, coach Frank Herin~Z (better known as the founder of 1\1\other's Day) brought his eleven to Ann Arbor for the first of four games between 1898-1902. "The Champions of the West", as the polite version of their fight song refers to them, captured all four games without allowing a point. Interestingly, Red Salmon, Notre Dame scoring leader until Dave Reeve came along, was captain of this 1902 team. Salmon rushed for 53 yards in ten carries during one series of downs on the 110 yard gridiron, but received little support in a 23-0 pasting. 
The final games before the modern era were played in 1908 and 1909. The Wolves escaped with a 12-6 triumph in '08 despite being outplayed and in 1909 the Irish gridders came home from Ann Arbor with an 11-3 upset. Harry Miller, father of Irish star and Hall of Farner Creighton, was superb in Notre Dame's first win over their northern rivals. He lugged the ball tirelessly, pausing only to let teammate Pete Vaughn score the first touchdown. Vaughn's run was so determined that he kayoed the goalpost on a crashing collision. 
Notre Dame and Michigan have 'met only twi~e since those distant da s 

during World War II when much of the 
game  programs  were  devoted  to  
detailing  how  the  two  schools  were  
assisting the war effort.  Frank Leahy  

and Fritz Crisler led the teams onto Notre Dame's field in 1942 with some­thing to prove. Michigan was coming off a 16-14 loss to Minnesota's Gophers, while the Irish had compiled a 5-1-1 slate, having tied Wisconsin 7-7 and losing to Georgia Tech 13-6. Angelo Bertelli, a year away from becoming Notre Dame's first Heisman Trophy winner, was the quarterback, with a sophomore at right tackle named Zygrnont Czarobski. 
Michigan blew open a close game in the third quarter with nineteen points, led by their brilliant backfield of George Ceithaml, Tom Kuzma and Paul White. The Irish started off well a touchdown strike from Bertelli to Bob Dove, then fell well behing before Creighton Miller tallied in the final stanza to make the final 32-20. The third sellout in Notre Dame's history returned home to wait twelve long months for revenge. 
And, before a huge throng of 86,408 and the largest press coverage of a sporting event up to this time, Notre 
Dame spotled Michigan's Saturday night plans by rolling to a 35-12 victory. Leahy's 1943 contingent was a power­house, crushing opponent after opponent until Great Lakes stunned them with a winning touchdown in the last minute of the season. The Irish had already beaten Pitt 41-0 and Georgia Tech 55-13 before the Michigan game. Bertelli, who captured the Heisman despite playing in only six games, was five for eight for a whopping 172 ¥ards, and he threw a 7(}-yard touchdown pass to Fred Earley to make it 14-7 in the first half. Miller had scored first on a 66-yard dash down the right sideline. He finished with 150 yards. The Irish lead continued to mount until Leahy sent in the shock troops in the fourth period, among them freshman qUarterback 
Johnny luiack. 
Tommorow's game is the second meeting between head roaches Dan Devine and Bo Schembechler. In 1969, Devine's Missouri Tigers upset the Rose Bowl-bound Wolverines, 40-17, at Ann Arbor. Schembechler remembers that embarassing defeat vividly. Hopefully, he'll look back on tomorrow's battle in precisely the same light. 
.. 
..----. 

' 

;, 
!,' 
.. \ 

<
. 
c• 

Friday, September 22. 1978 

12 the observer 
• 

Beat Michigan I 
Notre Dame and Michigan boast Heisman candidates 
by Craig Chval 
Sports Writer 

Saturday's Notre Dame -Michigan game will not only showcase two of the nation's finest teams, but it will also match two of the country's premier quarterbacks--Notre Dame's Joe Mon­tana and Michigan's Rick Leach. 
Each has had his name bandied about as a possible candidate for the Heisman Trophy, but it's a long way from pre-season hopeful to one of the four finalists that we'll once again see on prime-time television this December. 
Notre Dame boasts six winners of the award--Angelo Bertelli, John Lujack, Leon Hart, John Lattner, Paul Hornung and John Huarte. But five of those came during the fourteen-season span between 1943 and 1956, and the most recent winner--John Huarte, came four­teen years ago, in 1964. The Wolverines have yet to produce a Heisman winner. 
The Heisman Trophy is an award that defies description. Of course, it is an annual award presented to the outstand­ing collegiate player in the nation by the Downtown Athletic Club of New York, and the first winner was the University of Chicago's jay Berwanger in 1935. 
But since I::::Jerwanger, its winners have been as diverse as their names. Only one player--Ohio State halfback Archie Griffin--has won the award twice, in 1974 and 1975, and only two linemen have ever been acknowledged. Notre Dame tight end Leon Hart shares that distinc­tion with Yale's Larry Kelley. 
Winners have traditionally been from football powers, but a team's won­loss record isn't always a major factor. Pittsburgh's Tony Dorsett won the award in 1976, while he was in the process of leading the Panthers to the 
National  Championship.  But  Notre  
Dame's  Paul  Hornung  captured  the  
honor for the 1958 year,  a season  that  

saw the Irish compile a 2-8 mark. 


And despite three national titles since 1966, Notre Dame fans haven't toasted a Heisman Trophy winner since Huarte in 1964. The most notable near-misses were Ken MacAfee and Ross Browner last fall, and quarterback Joe Theis­mann, who finished second in the balloting in 1970 after leading Notre Dame to a 1o-1 season. 
Behind Theismann' s battle for the Heisman lies the most oft-repeated story of how a good sports information director can go a long way toward boosting a player's hopes. 
When Theismann made his debut as a freshman on Notre Dame's campus, he pronounced his last name Theezman. But according to legend, Notre Dame Sports Information Director Roger Valdi­serri took poetic license with the name, and the pronunciation became Thize­man. As in Heisman. 
Unfortunately, Joe finished second to Stanford's Jim Plunkett in that year's voting, but the pronunciation stuck. To this day, the starting quarterback of the Washington Redskins is known as Joe Thize-man. 
And although anyone in public rela­tions field will tell your that a Heisman winner can't be "manufactured", a good sports information director plays a vital role in the national exposure a player receives. 
Last year, Valdiserri and his since­departed assistant Bob Best found out the hard way why it is so difficult for a lineman--especially a defensive line­man--to win the award. 
After a spectacular junior season in which he won the Outland Trophy, symbolic of the nation's top lineman, defensive end Ross Browner was listed prominently as a candidate for the Heisman. But as the season wore on, Browner wasn't matching the statistics of his junior year. 

Heisman hopeful Joe Montana [Christian-photo] 
Last season's award also gave an example of how it's not always one of the preseason favorites that walks off with the award. Early in the fall, Browner, along with Oklahoma State's Terry Miller and a handful! of others, domi­nated the Heisman discussions. 
But out of nowhere came the Texas Longhorns to emerge as the nation's lone undefeated team after the regular season. And Earl Campbell, injured much of his junior season after promis­ing freshman and sophomor campaigns, was a darkhorse winner. 
Of course, winning · the Heisman Trophy is no guarantee of an illustrious pro career. Dorsett, the 1976 winner, made an auspicious debut in the NFL with the Dallas Cowboys last fall. And 
O.J. Simpson won the award in 1968 after a sparkling career at Southern Cal. 
But alongside those names as past Heisman winners, you'll also find such notables as Steve Spurrier, Pat Sullivan and Gary Beban. 
But Notre Dame alumnus Huarte received perhaps the unkindest cut of all. Not too many seasons ago, he was waived by the Chicago Bears. 
Irish defense to meet challenge from MU 
by Gregory Solman Sports Writer 

It must have been a little like moving 
into a new neighborhood for Mike 
Calhoun this spring: some familiar faces, 
but all in different places. For the first 
time since his freshman year, Calhoun 
was not flanked by stalwarts Ross 
Browner and Willie Fry, nor was he 
playing next to Ken Dike. In fact, he was 
the only returning starter to the 
defensive line. 
However, good defensive players are noted for their ability to adjust, and Calhoun, being just that, encountered few problems getting used to his new linemates, Jeff Weston, Jay Case and John Hankerd. 
"They're new," says the 6-5, 237­pound senior from Austintown, Ohio, "but they're pretty experienced for the most part and they knew what to do". 
If Calhoun felt any different, he didn't show it on the field, and by the end of spring ball he had copped the Hering Award for the outstanding defensive lineman. 
Certainly, if the defensive line is the first line of defense and Mike Calhoun is representative of the line, then one has to wonder why there has to be a second line of defense. But the ever-present war of the trenches is not always won, and Calhoun sees the function of the line as being instrumental to the rest of the defensive team. 
"Part of my job as adefensive tackle," related Calhoun, "Is to keep opposing linemen off of the linebackers, and to fill inside holes." 
I think we surprised a lot of people," Calhoun commented of the Notre Dame defensive effort during the Missouri of the Notre Dame defensive effort during the Missouri game, "and we played well as a team. We simply beat ourselves." Calhoun hopes that his team will not slip into the pitfall it seems to have in the 
last two years following highly praised defensive efforts. "Remember," cautioned Calhoun, "They were talking about how well the 
defense  played  the  game  before  
Mississippi,  and  the  game  before  
Georgia  Tech.  We  have  to  avoid  

complacency. We can't let it go... we have to work harder.'' Calhoun insists that defeating Michigan will be hard work. 
"My job and Jeff Weston's is Russell Davis. We have to stop him up the middle. This Michigan team is very talented. We expect them to try to pop Davis up the middle to open up their offense for the option. " If I i nemen set the tempo for games, then credit Calhoun with some pretty fancy tempo-setting. Last season, he was second on the team in tackles for losses with 13 for a negative 63 yards, and had a particularly outstanding Cotton Bowl to cap a fine season. And Calhoun, for one, has not dismissed a repeat of last year yet. 
"Repeating the National Championship is difficult, basically because the press Won't give you a second chance," commented Calhoun, "They're always looking for someone to knock you off. There is a lot of pressure, but this is a new team. We have to play the '78 season, and forget the '77 season. We can't rest on our laurels." 
"Well, we don't want to forget '77 completely," said Calhoun, checking himself and smiling, "The memories are too nice." 
You might say that Steve Heimkreiter has high aspirations for the coming season. 
"I want to lead the team in tackles, break the single-season tackle record, make All-American and," adds Heimkreiter quickly,"win the National Championship again." 
If linebacking strength is any indication of Irish chances for re atin then Heimkreiter would give Notre Dame the edge over all others. 

'I can't think of any other school in the country that has better linebackers than we do," said Heimkreiter, referring to fellow players Bob Golic,Mike Wittington Bobby Leopold, Pete Johnson, and others, "We have linebackers on the bench that could start anywhere else in the country." 
And, maintains, "the Critter", the Irish wi II need every bit of their linebacking to defeat the Wolverines. 
"Michigan is a powerful team," warned Heimkreiter, "and they're going to try to win by pitting force against force. Judging from what I've seen on the films, they come right at you ... and Notre Dame has the same kind of powerful defensive team." 
And what does an outside linebacker think about Rick Leach, known as an outstanding option quarterback? 
"I agree with Bo (Schembeckler) that he's probably the best option quarter­back," commented Heimkreiter, 'but he's not the best all-around quarterback in the country." 
Heimkreiter, too, saw bright spots in the Irish defense, despite the 3-0 loss to Missouri. 
"I think our team defense was fairly good," said Heimkreiter, "Even with the complex breakdowns, alignments and responsibilities we had to learn, ! think we played well. And once we get the hang of working together, I think we'll be as good as any defensive team has been.'' 
Heimkreiter, a 228-pound, 6-2 senior, hails from Cincinatti, which has been a virtual breeding ground for Irish football talent. Heimkreiter is coming off an excellent spring practice in which he won the Hering Award for being the top linebacker. He finished third on the team last year in tackles, with 98. In 1976, he led the entire team with 118. 
Heimkreiter had an interce tion to set up a score in the biggest game of his career, the Cotton Bowl. 
Michigan, he claims, is not far behind in importance. "It's certainly the second biggest game I've played in throughout my entire career. The Michigan game this Saturday is the National Champion­ship game for this year. That game will make or break our season. A good game could start us rolling." 
And after Michigan, the pressure 
continues with a tough contest each 
week. And Heimkreiter likes it that way. 
"I love this year's schedule," remarke<:J Heimkreiter, who revels in the finer aspects of the game, "We're seeing good teams with many different styles of offense ... Hell, I'd rather play the big teams every week. I wouldn't mind it if the game was on National TV every game ... in fact, I look forward to the games when they are." 
Few serious football players would debate long over the question of whether to play for Notre Dame or for Harvard. Notre Dame, after all, is Notre Dame--Knute Rockne, the Four Horse­men, the mecca of college football. Harvard is, well, Hahvahd--Franklin Delano Roosevelt, the Daily Crimson, the Boston Commons, and, yes Oliver Barrett Ill. Why would any serious devotee of the pigskin want to play football at Harvard? 
Joe Restic at one time had to make that debate, and he is as serious about football as anyone. 
But then, not every player's father coaches Harvard football like Joe Restic's does. In fact, Joe Restic may have the proudest father in the world that has missed almost every game that his son has ever played--You see, he has a game of his own to worry about each Saturday. 
"After I had it all boiled dow!), it was between Notre Dame and Harvard," 
[continued on 


Friday, September 1.2, 1978 the observer 13 


Beat MichiganI 
Few match Michigan's success against ND 
by Paul Mullaney Tomorrow, when Bo Schembechler's relations between the two schools broke Irish, led by Heisman Trophy winner Sports Writer Michigan Wolverines invade Notre until the two teams met again in 1942, Angelo Bertelli, were seeking an Dame Stadium for the first of five when the visiting Wolverines won 32-20. unblemished mark for the ten-game In Notre Dame's long and illustrious straight yearly contests, Irish fans may A 1943 Irish victory, 35-12, in Ann Arbor season. That goal appeared to have football history, Irish fans have pointed add the defending Big Ten champions to was the last encounter between the been fulfilled until Sailor quarterback to such great rivals as Southern Cal, that elite list of rivals. Saturday's current football powerhouses. Steve Lach threw a touchdown pass to Purdue. Michigan State, Army, Navy, regionally-televised affair will rekindle Tomorrow's game not only finds the Paul Anderson with only 25 seconds left Pittsburgh,and more recently Alabama the oldest series in ND grid history after Irish in search of a 3-9 all-time mark in the game. The 19-14 Notre Dame and Texas, as supplying some of the a 35-year sabbatical. against the Wolves, but in search of a loss, however, didn't affect the Irish most enjoyable pigskin memories ever. Michigan, however, differs from the balanced ledger for the 1978 season. National Champion~ip hopes as they 
Amazingly, the thing which stands out other great Irish rivals in that they have Notre Dame's opening game loss to were voted number one by Associated in the competition between Notre Dame dominated play against the Irish, win­Missouri put the Irish under .500 for the Press. and these opponents is that the Irish ning all but two of the 11 games which year as well as below average against 
It took a Notre Dame football team 26 hold the upper hand in their all-time date back to the last century. The only Missouri in the Irish-Tiger career series. 
years and four tries to do it, but the Irish series with each of these schools. other modern day Notre Dame oppo­The Irish defeated Dan Devine's 1970 finally defeated Great Lakesin 1944,28-7. 
nents which can stake that claim are Mizzou team, 24-7, in Columbia, before 
In a game played in the snow, the Irish of 
Missouri and Mississippi. Only some of being upset by the 1972 Tigers, 30-26, at 
coach Ed McKeever gave up the first
the more dated Irish fans might be able Notre Dame. The Missouri triumph two 
score and came back to dominate the rest
Millers helped 
to add Great Lakes Naval Base, Yale, weeks ago, 3-Q, makes the Tigers 2-1 
of the game.

Chicago and Indianapolis Artillery to the overall against the Irish. 
In the decisive game in the career
list of teams holding career edges over Mississippi, the only other modern­
to defeat MU 
series, the two schools met in Hugh
the Irish. day opponent to hold a series edge over 
Devore's last game of his only season as
Ironically, it was in November of 1887 the Irish, upset Notre Dame 20-13 last 
head Irish coach. Led by fullback
when a Michigan team introduced Notre year in the only meeting ever between
in Irish wins 
N\arion Motley, Great Lakes destroyedDame students to football, although it the two schools. 
Notre Dame from the outset and handed
was more like rugby than the game we The Great Lakes team was a power
Lou Severino the Irish a 39-7 setback. 
know today. The students from Ann during the period of World War II, when 
Sports Writer 

Arbor, already having played 19 games, its series with Notre Dame ended at Yale has the distinction of never instructed the academic-mined Notre 2-1-2. The obsolete rivalry started in having lost to Notre Dame. In the only Dame students how the game was 1918, when Knute Rockne's Irish tied meeting between the two schools, JesseAlthough Irish fans know that Notre played before winning 8-0 on a muddy the Sailors, 7-7. It was actually a moral Harper's 1914 Irish fell to Yale 28-Q, oneDame has defeated Michigan only twice, playground on which now stands Nieuw­victory for a Notre Dame team that was of two losses in eight games that year for few realize that a father-son combination 
land Science Hall. undermanned, for the lone Great Lakes I".lotre Dame.
has played prominent roles in both NO score late in the game was almost
victories. Harry (Red) Miller in1909 and In fact, Notre Dame suffered three Chicago and Indianapolis Artillery
thwarted by Notre Dame. 
his son Creighton in 1943, contributed losses to Michigan before winning its also can make that claim. Those two heavily to the lone NO victories in the first game ever, a 2(}-0 triumph over The series resumed in 1942 at Chica­schools had little problem handling Notre 11 game Michigan series. · Harvard (Chicago) Prep in 1888. go's Soldier Field with The Lakes coming Dame back in the days when there was 
Red Miller, a 6-0175 pounder started at The two schools didn't meet from 1888 off six consecutive shutouts. The green no forward pass, a touchdown was four left halfback for the 1909 Fighting Irish. until1898, when Michigan continued its and gold clad Irish rose from a 13-Q points, a field goal was worth five, a After 3 consecutive victories, Notre dominance over Notre Dame with a 23-Q halftime deficit to tie the score in just point after counted for two, games were Dame traveled to Ann Arbor to face the victory. Michigan victories followed in three-and-a-half minutes of second half played during the middle of the week mighty Wolverines known as the "Point 1899, 1900, 1902 and 1908 before the play. The game ended deadlocked at 13 and captains had to coach. a minute club", because of their prolific Irish finally beat their volunteer teach­apiece. In 1895 Artillery beat the Irish 18-Q, offense. The Irish had lost to Michigan ers, 11-3, in 1909. The following year the two teams met while Chicago won 8-0, 18-0, 34-5 and in all 8 previous games and in fact had After that initial Notre Dame win, at Notre Dame in the season finale. The 23-6· in games between 1894 and 1899. 
· scored only 16 points in those games. But this day was to be a different story. Red Miller carried on 10 of 12 plays in a 
Red Miller (center)
78-yard drive setting up Pete Vaughan's 2-yard plunge, the game's first score (worth 5 points in those days). Later in 
captained the 
the game with NO holding a slim 5-3 advantage, Miller led a fearsome rush 
1908 squad.
which smothered a Michigan field goal try. The Irish recovered the blocked..kick and moments later Bill Ryan broke loose 
Oeighton Miller 
for a 30 yard touchdown run. That closed out the scoring as Notre Dame 
is pictured on
captured their first victory of the series 11-3. 
page 11.
Red Miller, who had been converted to center for the 1908 season showed the durability and toughness which was a trademark of the 1909 Fighting Irish. This club finished with a 7-0-1 record and won the Western Collegiate Championship. Even more amazing is the fact that the Irish defense allowed only one touchdown all year. 
Red Miller was only one of 5 Miller brothers to play football at Notre Dame. His proudest moment came in 1943 when his son Creighton led NO to their only other win over Michigan before 90,(X)() at Ann Arbor. This matchup of the top two teams in the country was hailed as 'the 
Wolverines to test ND defense 
game of the decade". 
Creighton Miller a 6-0 185 halfback [continued from page 12] the phone about our Notre Dame games. quarterback." broke the game open on Notre Dame's relates the younger Restic, ''And when I It's a tremendous feeling knowing that Joe Restic has trained hard to get first play from scrimage with a 66-yard approached my father with this, he left you can talk with someone that close to where he is. Admittedly, all he does in touchdown run. A 70-yard pass from the decision completely up to me, saying you, and be confident that he knows all the summer is get ready for the fall. A Angelo "The Arm" BerteIIi to Fred that I couldn't go wrong with either of the specifics of the game. It's a superlative weightlifter, Restic entered Early and a 4-yard run by Jim Mello school." common bond that has brought us closer Notre Dame at 170 pounds, now weighs upped the Irish lead to 21 points and Looking back over free-safety Joe together.'' 200 pounds and can bench-press almost . ND went on to a 35-12 victory and an Restic's career here at Notre Dame, it is Restic was proud of Notre Dame's one half of what he weighed his national championship. Bertelli, the clear that he was not in error coming defensive effort against Missouri. freshman year. Heisman Award winner in '43 enjoyed here. Restic, who led the team in Proud, but not surprised. "It gives you extra confidence to know an outstanding day completing 5-8 interceptions last year with six, was an ''The preseason question of whether or that you are as strong as some of the passes for 172 yards and booting all 5 honorable mention all-American in 1976 not our defense was good came from linemen you play against," smiles extra points. Miller turned in an even and 1977. All of this, and a punter, too, outside of the team," insists Restic, Restic. more spectacular performance with 159 Restic had a 38.1 yard average last year "We knew that we had some key people 
Despite his individual efforts, Restic 
yards in only 10 carries despite having a to add to his punting total of 148, the and that our talent would come claims no magic formula to account for58-yard run called back because of a highest in the history of Notre Dame together ... but that's beside the point. I his frequent interceptions. 
holding penalty. Miller rushed for 911 football. And if Restic does eventually think we proved ourselves as a team, yards and scored 13 touchdowns in this end up a Harvard, it will be to attend both offensively and defensively." "Usually when I get an interception," national championship year. His football their exclusive dental school (they accept As the last line of defense, Restic does says Res tic, ''It's not because I risked exploits reached a pinnacle recently only 21 applicants a year). That should not take Michigan quarterback Rick anything, but because a solid team when he was named to the College tell you something about his grades. Leech lightly. defensive effort forced the ball into my Football Hall of Fame, an honor also Still, it must have been difficult for "Leech runs the option as well as zone of coverage." held by 3 of his teammates on the 1943 Coach Restic to see his son, the one he anybody,"warned Restic, "But I can't Isn't it just like the best not to admit Fighting Irish. personally imbued with his football take anything away from his as a passin it ... 
The Miller family has set an knowledge, shuffle off into the wilds of unparalled record of success in Fighting Indiana after all of the work he had put Irish football history. Although their into his son's football education. 
Editor: Ray O'Brien 
exploits are admirable on an individual "When I was in high school," recalls ­basis, they are even more spectacular Restic, "Dad and I used to get together because they were accomplished by a in our cellar and review football films of Layout: ~hn Colcutt, Debbie Dahrling father-son combination. our ames. Even now I talk to him over 



\ 
t 

r 
.·. .
. 
14=-4~~t.L.Ih!..:lle~o[.Jib~s~e..rv~allll.lrL_______Fr_id....;;.a'-'-y~-',seotember 22. 1978 
Alumni and Friends of NOTRE DAME...J Now's your chanceIll 
subscribe to the 
for only S10. per semester 
(520. per year) send payment to: 
THE OBSERVER, CIRCULATION BOXQ NOTRE DAME IND. 46556 
along with your name, address, and zip.. 
NNYSIDE 
BEVERAGES 
1340 South Bend Ave. 234-1114 
2 b.l ks south of Campus 
Daily Sam-4:30pm' Sat 8am-10:30pm 
Pabst Blue Ribbon Pabst Extra Light 
old style 8'~~ Drewry's 

DRAFT TRUCK TAPPii·~G EQUIPMENT 
·cu~~-4~~.:..!::::.----­
Kf P.~ERONLY 
SC 0 '-\T RETAIL~ 
t 
.. 
Beat Michigan I 
.:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 
Imay be wrong, but.... 
iliw~~~~~mwww@~~~~~w~w~m~~~m~w~~w~~~~~~~~m~~m~Thelrish~~ 
The Irish Eye rebounded off a medi­ocre opening round of predictions and picked all twelve contests correct last week including the unanimous decision by Ali. However, the vacation of easy games is over as conference battles begin and national powerhouses lock horns (not to mention that Notre Dame is playing again.) The top games this week include the Irish versus Michigan and the battle in Birmingham between number one ranked Alabama and seventh ranked USC. So with the help of Tony Pace (remember his pro picks­neither do I) here are this week's sure bets: Yale at Brown: Many experts feel that the Ivy League title will be decided in the first game of the year between these two teams. Last year Yale won the title by virtue of their one-point margin over Brown but it looks as though time has finally run out on the Eli. Gone is All-Everything John Pagliaro, the second-best rusher in Yale history. Carm Cozza also must find a new QB while Brown's offense is ready to go. If Brown's defensive front can hold than the perennial champs will be unseated bya4-point margin. Pacetabs Yaleby6 
(His cousin plays defensive back for Yale.) Texas A&M at Boston College: Ever since BC took on ND three years ago, they have become gluttons for punish­ment. If they are trying to build their program, they are going about it in a strange way. Last year the Eagles went to Texas and were annihilated by the Longhorns. I think the Red Sox are sponsoring this game so that they won't be the only team massacred in Boston. The Aggies could be the dark horse this year although they will have to overcome injuries (FB George Woodward is out for the year). However Curtis Dickey should have a field day Saturday and A&M will pick up mucho points in the rankings as they tromp by 31. Pace sees the Aggies winning by 20. USC at Alabama: If Bear can pull a victory out of his hat this we,.kend his team should snag every pollsters vote as numero uno in college football. The game is at Birmingham so that gives the Crimson Tide at least a three-point edge even before the opening kickoff. Alabama has the offense to add to that total but the defense was suspect in the 
first half against Missouri. Alabama will eventually be upset but they are too up for this game and USC is going to show the mistakes of a talented but inexperi­enced squad. Charles White (presently third in the nation in rushing) will do his thing as he drives for the Heisman Trophy but it will not be enough as the Tide rolls to a 9-point victory. Pace sees the Trojans avenging last year's loss by upsetting 'Barna by 3. 
Clemson at Georgia: Evidently Georgia is not as weak as everyone thought they were. They are not winning but they put up a good fight. Steve Fuller has picked up where he left off last year for Clemson and as long as he is around, they will linger in the top twenty. Fuller should be able to pick the Bulldogs defense apart with the option as he looks to capture ACC Player of the Year honors for the second straight year. With the game at Georgia, the first half will be close but the Tigers will eventually claw their way to a 12-point decision. Pace likes Clemson by 17. 
Florida State at Miami: While Florida State continues to hang on the top twenty . charts, ranking mean nothing when these two teams get together. The Seminolesbarely escaped with their lives last year and this time around they might not be quite as fortunate as the game is not in their backyard. Jimmy Jordan is second in the nation in passing after two games connecting on 33 of 53 tosses for 440 yards and four TO's. However Lou Saban had an excellent recruiting year and the dividends should begin to come in as the defense is finally sound. If Don Smith can avoid two blockers and get to Jordan, Saban might have his first upset of the year. Thqt probably will be asking for a bit too much so I'II stay with FSU by 
6. Pace picks the Seminoles by 13. Tulane at Georgia Tech: The Yellow Jackets are not all they were cranked up to be but Tulane's dangerous offense is turning out to be harmless. Rich Hontas and Willard Browner have had troubles going forward. With 18-.uretuming starters, the lack of success cannot be blamed on inexperience. Pepper Rogers dumped the wishbone to improve the offense but teaching players that have not seen a pa_ss since they enrolled how 
to throw the ball is no overnight task. With 16 returning starters, the Wrambl­ing Wreck was supposed to start clearing paths towards a collison course with ND but after Missouri Devine would be glad to be down South. Nevertheless C.T. wins by default claiming a 9 point victory. Pace can't believe such a worthless game is included in this week's picks and passes. 

Columbia at Harvard: Joe Restic's Crimson play most of their games at home and while they don't have the firepower to take the Ivy League title, they should have fun playing the role of spoilers. Led by QB Larry Brown, Restic's multiflex offense is ready to confuse coaches, players and fans alike. It better because the defense isn't going to scare any schoolboy off the field. Columbia will definitely be improved in 1978 only because they couldn't be worse. There are bright spots on both offense and defense and Lions fans should be happy for that but don't expect to win as Harvard grabs this debut by 14. Pace tabs the Crimson by 24. 
Maryland at North Carolina: T erp coach Jerry Clairborne must have a lot of friends because Maryland is getting enough votes to linger in the top twenty polls. They are highly touted despite the fact that they have no QB to speak of and the rest of the offense is mediocre. As usual the defense is tough but there are no All-Americans. On the other hand, 
N.C. has several All-American candi­dates including "Famous Amos" Law­rence (1,211 yards as a frosh). The Tar Heels were No. 1 in the nation in scoring defense last year and will be nearly as strong this year. Claiborne will say goodbye to the legitimate top twenty . teams as his squad loses by 8. Pace 
selects the Tar Heels by 14. Mississippi at Missouri: This battle of Irish spoilers should be interesting. No one can tell if the Tigers are for real as they bounced back from a 17-point first half deficit against Alabama only to be shut out 21-0 1n the second half. MississiJ)pi's kickers are their weapons if the defense can hold an inconsistent Tiger offense. Jim Mi!ler can pin a team deep with punts in the ozone (45.9 avg. led the nation in 1977). Hoppy Langley can hit with extreme consistency inside the forty. If Ole Miss can get that close they can upset but don't bet on it as Missouri stays in the top twenty via a 10 
point win. Pace likes Missouri by 6. Colorado State at Brigham Young: Fans will go home with sore necks after this game is over as the ball will be in the air for most of the 60 minutes. Colorado's biggest question mark was supposed to be at QB but Steve Fairchild, the nation's J.C. total offense leader, has done an admirable job. He admirably leads the nation in total offense (277 yards per game) and is fourth in passing (18-27, 2 TO's and 287 yards). Keep an eye on this dark horse for the Heisman Trophy. BYU boasts QB Marc Wilson who is the returning total offense leader in the nation and set an NCAA record by passing for 571 yards against Utah in his first start. Whoever throws better will win the game but since BYU is at home I'll give them the nod by 6. Pace sees a Wilson aerial show leading BYU to a 17 point victory. Rice at Oklahoma: This is my sure bet for the week because I would never be able to live down missing every game. It seems safe· to say that Oklahoma could fumble on every play and still manage to win this game. If they don't fumble at all it could be a record-breaking contest for most points scored in a game. Barry Switzer will make·excuses for beating the stuffing out of lowly Rice but he will get the poll votes he is looking for. Michigan disappointed me by beating Illinois by a mere 31 points but Oklahoma should come through with the 50 point margin. Pace, again laughing, picks Oklahoma by 63. Michigan at Notre Dame: Schembech­ler's offense was hurt when All-Ameri­can candidate Bill Dufek broke his foot last Saturday. The Wolverine offense is still a powerful running attack although ND has had much success against running teams. ThP Wolverine defense has yet to be tested but if the Irish 
offense performs like it did two weeks ago, Michigan will havP to wait unit! their third game to test the defense. N D is a good team and Montana is a good QB. Now it they would go out on tne field and play like +hey can it will be a 
'Very close game. T~1ere are no excuses when you have two weeks (it seemed like three) to prepare for an opponent and it is at home. I MAY BE WRONG BUT I'LL PICK ND BY SIX. Pace expects a strong ND comeback from 2 weeks ago and takes the Irish by 10. 

DneYearRt~~a 


known nothing about all of this until long moment the team took the field. The Irish "Maybe he's drunk," suggested after that Saturday score had come down KNEW. In the stands they jumped and another. upon his head, until it was too late to take mobbed and toppled over each other in The first one laughed, and I asked him if back his words... their excitement , some running onto the U-M had really played all that badly 
SPOKE TOO SOON--how could poor Fitz field to greet the team, others hefting against Minnesota. I was a bit surprised at have known about what would be the flasks and goatskins to their mouths for his answer. greatest psychological move of the week­what they certainly believed to be pre­"Ah, they been playin' bad all year. end, the most dramatic part of the ND victory belts. THEY KNEW. Probably They never deserved to be Number One." Game Psyche: the wearing ofthe greens? there were those cynical few who doubted (Which, incidentally, they were ranked for When I first heard that ND would be in that ND would win ....but the cynicism and a short time.) green-and-gold, assured myself and every­doubt had finally been silenced for the first Shades of attitudes at Notre Dame one within shouting distance that the Irish time this season. Along with the great during the first part of the football season? would surely crush SC like a box of stale beast Academia, the gargoyle Skepticism The cynicism, the doubt? I enjoyed­cornflakes. Southern Cal coach John had, for at least a day, been trodden down hearing another school's fans voice such Robinson would get sick at the sight of and laid to rest. Dan Devine, Joe skeptical feelings, feelings that had been those jerseys. Fitz would get sicker. When Montana, and the rest of the Fighting Irish so totally forgotten in South Bend prior to the team gathered in the tunnel just before firished the job off by destroying USC and the Irish embarrassment of USC. Still, I the game, the rowdy Irish throng confirmed resurrecting Notre Dame's hopes for a said nothing, realizing that the same old the worth of the green-jersey gambit with a National Championship.... feeling could well spring up again at ND. I tremulous uproar that seemed never to silently hoped that it wouldn't. It was diminish until we were far in the lead. At A few days later, I was in Ann Arbor better, more fun when the Irish knew.
*** 
the sight of the greens and of the Trojan to visit friends who were also Michigan Before I left, one of my Michigan Horse rolling ominously onto the field, students and supposedly steadfast acquaintances offered a sudden tribute to everyone seemed to know that the Irish Wolverine faB&. On this particular my school. Reaching across a kitchen would win. For they'd been there--on evening, they were none too pleased with table, he extended an open hand and said Eddy Street, in the happy Friday night their football team, it having been so with a sheepish grin, "Hey, I watched that mobs, on Green Field huddled about a keg, shockingly upset by Minnesota, 16-0. They Southern Cal game the other day. And I amidst the clamoring alumni, and now, in talked -about their team while, on a just want you to know that all of us here at the stadium, where many were seeing the television in another room, Coach Bo Michigan think you got one class school." Irish in green-and-gold for the first Schembechler could be heard chuckling "Yeah," !laughed. "I know." time....unlike Fitz, who knew nothing of and dismissing his team's poor perform­green or gold, or of Trojan Horses, or of ance as unimportant. 
Bryan Gndey USC weekend madness, or, most "'Listen to that," one of them said. 
Detroit, Mlchlaaa
lmportaady, of an entirely new confidence '"8o's laughing about that game. Who's that swept over the ND populace the he trying ~o kid?" 8dober, 1977 
[Continued from page 10) c
... 


The Proposition, September 22-29; Cen­~ tury Center. A play by Century Produc­tion. There is theater in South Bend andAerosmlth; September 30; 8pm. ACC. Any 
it's good theater.

diehard rock and roll fan should enjoy this show as long as Steven Tyler doesn't Elizabeth Hames, soprano, Penelopeimitate Jagger too much and as long as the Crawford, forteplano; September 24; 8pm.band doesn't play music from their last two SMC Little Theater. Sponsored by the albums. ACOC opens for Aerosmith. I've SMC Music Department. only heard one of their albums and their name fits the music. They couldn't decide what to play or how to play it. 



PerfOI'III&Dee Century Center; September 22, 23; 8:30 
Yes; September 22; 8pm. ACC. A more pm-2am. Disco night. They have to pay than adequate follow-up to the Bruce the electric bills somehow. Springsteen concert. Rick Wakeman, Jon Anderson, and friends have unrivaled Pep Rally; September 22; 7pm. Stepan talent in their ethereal brand of rock and Center. Speakers: Terry Hanratty and roll. If you have an extra S8 lying around, Ziggy Czarobsti. A good way to let out 
the music and accompanying show will be frustrations and anxieties and, at the same weJI worth it. time, lose half of the water in your system. 
· Editor's Note: This article first appeared 
ID T~ Observer last fall after Notre Dame 
bad surprised Southern Cal with green 
jerseys aad a 49-19 victory. Bat there's 
more to It than just a USC game--It has a lot 
to do with a confidence that suddenly 
swept over the campus prior to the USC 
game, aad with certain observations made 
by people from the University of Mlcblgaa, 
home of the Ann Arbor Gag Bunch, whom 
ND will be facing tomorrow. It Is reprinted 
as the F-Page's small contribution to a 
97-point victory over Do Schembecbler, 
Rick Leach, aad the rest of the noose­
gooses from Mlchlgaa••• 
It was the Thursday before the Notre 
Dame-Southern Cal game, and I was in 
Michigan for a visit. There I happened to 
run into an old high school classmate who 
now attends the University of Michigan. 
Good ol' Fitz. Fitz the omnipresent wise­
cracker. Fitz the ingenious one-line 
sarcastic rag artist who loves nothing more 
than to relentlessly insult anything you 
might hold as sacred, dear, or otherwise 
important to your present life situation-­
your family, your friends, your job, your 
co1lege. Good ol' smart aleck Fitz--a good 
guy really, a close buddy--who gets his 
hate up for ND whenever I'm around and 
available for a little target practice. Good 
ol' Fitz--standing and laughing in my face, 
telling me that ND "really looked 
Impressive against Mississippi. '' (The 
Irish lost to Mississippi, 20-13.) 
"Yeah, Fitz," I retorted. "You go ahead 
and laugh now. Laugh right up until the 
Rose Bowl when Ricky Leach and the boys 
pull their annual choke." 
Fitz laughed harder, screaming now. 
"No WAY, Bryan! Not this year. All the 
way this year! Notre Dame was the big, 
bad team in September--and myyyyyy but 
they did look big and bad against 
Mississippi, and against Pittsburgh. 
Pretty shoddy, I'd say. Pretty shoddy." 
"So, screw that, Fitz--we're gonna ream 
USC on Saturday." 
Fitz was now in tears with laughter. 
"Sure, sure--we'll see about that: We'll 
see..." And he was still chuckling when I 
walked away. 
It wasn't until much later that I realized 
Fitz hadn't used a single clever one-liner to 
tear down my team. Too bad he didn't take 
the chance while he had it. But then--how 
could he have known? 
Poor ignorant ***
foot-in-the-mouth Fitz-­

how could he have known about what was 
then happening in South Bend, about what 
would happen in South Bend that very 
Saturday? 
How could he have known about the 
urgent frenzy that would overwhelm this 
campus that USC weekend? How could he, 
who has never been to this campus but 
once, envision the beer-crazed mob of 
students and alumni filling the streets 
between Nickie's and Corby's with a 
thirsty delirium that officially began the 
weekend on which the Trojans would get 
their heads stomped. He couldn't have 
known. 
He couldn't have known about the ND 
Game Psyche: the alumni everywhere, the 
motels filled almost back to Chicago; 
students whooping their loyalty across the 
keg-spotted Green Field, where a young 
man from New York City, no alumnus 
mind you, told me, unabashed and 
unblinking, "No doubt. The Irish'll kill 
'em by 35." And all the giddy bookwom 
undergrads coming right off endless 
midterms into a joyous Friday night 
resurrection (back to real life?), then four 
hours sleep, then up and at 'em, shotgun a 
beer ifthey must, and out to the tailgaters. 
Of course the alumni cavorting about in 
every direction, one laying a whole seven 
big onei on the Irish, and all the others in 
for perhaps their biggest surprise in 
fourteen seasons. And signs of every color 
and kind, even double meanings by gosh, 
draped about the entire campus--crudely 
paintsplashed foreshadowings of the 
imminent destruction of Southern Cal. 
One student put SC in brilliant red-and­
gold perspective on a simply wrought 
t-shirt: "USC S---s." It was the whole 
damn campus forgetting the boot-and-pen 

rigamorole, quelling the ~t Academia, 
and stepping forthright and happy into a 
world of frenetic Eddy Streeet insanity and 
cocky, Trojan-beating, football fantasy. 
But not fantasy at all, no--49-19 ultimately 
belied that. But poor Fitz could have 


, 

'·,( 
~ 
t 
I 
i 
l 
) 
.•. 
:· 
:: :: 
\~ 
..~~bS1~~ 

-······························ 
: ANSWERS TO YOUR QUESTIONS: 
• :  Call the SMC Student Government  • :  
:  HOT LINE  :  
:  5776 or 5373  :  
:  manned by your Student Government  :  
:  3-9 mon-thurs.  :  

-·····························" 
a

r~---------------,
1 sen1oR saR 1 
I I 
I I
1 happy houR ~RJOay 1 I 4-7 B€€RS -3 ~OR $1.00 I I ~aculty, stuOOnts, atumm mvrtOO I I 0P€Tl 1Oam t=o~ m1ch (jam€ I 
~----------------~ 
Marketing Club 
PRESENTS: 

r~.__..~.........................,._..........~..r-......,...~·~...,...~..,...................,..............,..1 
~ ATTENTION ~ 
l SMC OFF-CAMPUS I 
~ ~ 
~ General Meeting ~ ~ ~ 
. 7:00pm Monday, Sept. 25 ~ ~ Stapleton \! Important info and news · Be there! ! ~ Followed by: \! 8:00pm Stapleton ~ 
"Rape Preuention"· a special program ­especially for 0-C students. Refreshments· Refreshments Refreshments 
~I:SS.t*-s::D~ ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,, 
tudent Union Services Commission 
PLANT SALE 
Friday Sept. 22 3:30 to 5:00 LaFortune Student Center 
All types of plants, All sizes 
Bourne denies all rumors 
WASHINGTON [AP] • Looking back on the controversy that forced him to resign as President Jimmy Carter's chief adviser on drug abuse, Dr. Peter Bourne says he was most upset by rumors of widespread drug use in the White House. 
~·r have no acquaintance of any­one in the White House using drugs," Bourne said in a recent interview in the drawing room of his large, elegant townhouse in northwest Washington. 
"I would have been the last person anyone would have told,'' he added. "But that rumor was around fairly actively. A lot of people were saying that.'' 
The 39-year-old, British-born psychiatrist said he was neither sad nor bitter about his resignation in July from a $51,000-a-year job as presidential assistant for health and drug abuse affairs. 
Bourne resigned 36 hours after disclosure that he had written 
prescription for Quaalude, a power­ful and much abused sedative, for Ellen Metsky, his administrative aide, using a fictitious name. Bourne said he used a false name to protect Metsky' s confidentiality. 
Her friend, Toby Long, was arrested in suburban Woodbridge, Va. when she attempted to fill the prescription for Metsky, and faces a preliminary hearing in November on a felony charge of seeking to obtain a controlled drug "by fraud, deceit or misrepresentation." No criminal charges were brought against Bourne or Metsky. 
Shortly after he resigned, Bourne was quoted as saying. there was a "high incidence" of mari­juana use among members of the White House staff, as well as "occasional" use of cocaine by a few of them. -Asked about the accuracy of that report, Bourne replied: "I don't want to get into arguments about who said what. A lot of people were saying that. It was just a rumor floating around every­where." 
He added: "The last thing I would ever want to say is that there were people using drugs in the 
~····································..··········· 
Our Specialty: 

i CLUBS AND ORGANIZATIONS I 
Oven Baked 
• 

fApplicatlons for considerations in this year's Student Governmen1 
APPLE PANCAKES 
Extra large, using fresh apples : Budget can be picked up now in the Treasurer's Office + and pure sugar cinnamon glaze • •
: Second floor LaFortune Student Center : US 31 (Dixieway) North in Roseland 
Deadline for completion is MON. SEPT. 25 i 
Rudy Rodriguez, groundskeeper, rides his Bobcat mower during his daily duties. [Photo by Mark Muench] 
SEE PRO BASKETBALL ·(Pre Season Game) CHICAGO BULLS (with Scott May and Artis Gilmore) vs. MILWAUKEE BUCKS (with Kent Benson, Quinn Buckner and Marques Johnson) 
SUN. SEPT. 24 7:30pm NOTRE DAME A.C.C ~~ 
Tickets: $2.50-$5-$6 
I 

ND & SMC students 
$1.00 OFF on Regular $2.50 dcket 
ON SALE! ACC GATE 10 

Office Mon-Sat 9am-Spm BUCKS White House when the whole 
argument was that this was a 
legitimate prescription given for 
medical purposes." 
Bourne said talk of drug use in the White House has "just annoyed me enormously, because I felt that there was a scurrilous effort on the part of publications to sort of go out after it" and a willingnessto "let the facts become 
very loose." 
Bourne said the only time he had 
seen drugs being used, with mari­
juana and cocaine ''everywhere,'' 
was at a party given last year for 
the National Organization for 
Reform of Marijuana Laws. It was 
the same party where some report­
ers said they saw Bourne using 
cocaine. 

"No, no. I was not snorting 
cocaine,'' Bourne said. 
He denied he had ever used 
drugs while he held the White 
House job. He acknowledged, as 
he had at his confirmation hear­
ings, that he had previously used 
marijuana. And he said he once 
tried cocaine "several years ago." 
While he was in the White 
House, Bourne said, he wrote "not 
more than a dozen" prescriptions 
for fellow staff members, including 
presidential aide Hamilton Jordan. 
He said he used a fictitious 
prescription name only once -for 
Metsky. 

"In fact, I even raised the issue 
of confidentiality to Hamilton, but 
he was totally blase about it," said 
Bourne, who said he prescibed 
some diet pills for Jordan. 
Bourne, whose wife, Mary King, 
is deputy director of ACTION, the 
federal volunteer agency, said he 
was enjoying his relaxed life. 
"I never realized how much 
pressure I had been under and how 
fantastically better I feel now,'' he 
said. "I haven't felt so good in five 
years. My life is very much nicer." 
He does worry that some of the 
programs he worked on at the 
White House -like world hunger 
and national health insurance • 
have lost some momentum since he 
left. But, he said, "I plan to stay 
involved," making speeches, 
writing and lobbying for legis­
lation. 

"The president knows I am very 
committed to these issues and that 
is the understanding that we 
have." 

Bourne said he talks to people in 
the White House several times a 
day, and that he and his wife have 
maintained contact with the 
Carters. "Our relations with them 
are good," he said. 
Bourne reported he has had 
several job offers from corporations 
and universities, including 
Harvard, but that he had no plans 
to accept a full-time position until 
next year. 

One subject he plans to speak 
about around the country is the 
danger of drug abuse. 
"There's a real problem in the 
gravitation to the use of drugs, 
including alcohol. I'm very con­
cerned about the very high use of 
marijuana by young people of this 
country -45 million people have 
tried it, 11 million are regular 
users. One out of 10 high school 
students smokes marijuana every 
day." 

Bourne supports Carter's policy 
of decriminalizing, but not legal­
izing, use of marijuana. 
"But if it comes to a question of 
are you for or against marijuana, 
one must be against," he said. 
"Not using drugs is clearly vastly 
better than using drugs." 
\ 
' 
.  ' .  
•  l  ..  
... •  I  •) ~-·  ~ .!-..; ..~  •.t  -..  '  '  - ~ .....  

Program to begin 
by Robbie Moore 
About 100 Notre Dame students participated last Sunday in a bus tour of the South Ben.i-Mishawaka area. The tour wa• a pilot of a project of the "HoriLons" program sponsored by the Ct~nter for Ex­periential Learning. 
Tom Schlereth, Ar erican Studies department chairm n, began last weekend's prograr.t with a 45­rninute slide prese!ltation on the historical background of South Bend and Mishawaka. South Bend Congressman John Brademas was also on hand to supply additional information. 
The tour itself got underway around 3 p.m. as students from Grace, Planner and Breen-Phillips boarded three busses manned by husband/wife teams from the Uni­versity faculty. Acting as commen­tators, they cited various points of interest along the route, including the Studebaker mansion, the Far­mers' Market, and two Frank Lloyd Wright homes. 
The tour route roughly followed the St. Joe River, with stops at the Century Center, where students meandered through a Hungarian Art Exhibit and the Discovery Hall Museum, at the Justice and Peace Center, and at the 100 Center. 
The last stop was the highlight of the day, accordint to Mary Anne Tighe, one of the participants. All students were given free soda in the Beer Gardens, discount cou­pons good at many of the shops and a free movi< pass to the Boiler House Flix. Afterwards, partici­pants gathered for a cookout at Grace Hall. 
"Horizons" is a new program offered by the Center for Experien­tial Learning. "The Unseen City," a team-taught class offered last year by Fr. Don Mcneil. John Roos, associate professor of government, and Tom Swartz, professor econo­mics. 
The syllabus of "The Unseen City" presented "an economic, political and theological overview of the city," Patty Dwyer, one of 
the class members, explained. 
One of the requirements of the 
class was the presentation of a 
student project concerning the 
theme of the "unseen city." 
Dwyer said she and two other 
students, Tracey Enright and Steve 
Thomas, collaborated on an audio 
visual presentation to "try and 
dispel the stereotypes of South 
Bend as a social and cultural void. 
We wanted to show the viewers 
some of the things there are to do 
and see in South Bend." 
"Horizons" was formed as an 
offshoot of Dwyer's presentation. 
She explained it is aimed primarily 
at freshmen and sophomores, and 
seeks to give them a chance to 
explore the community beyond the 
campus and become acquainted 
with other students. 
The Center for Experiential Lear­ning provides a variety of similar programs which serve to orient the student with the urban environ­ment. The Center is directed by Mary Ann Roemer and Fr. Don McNeil. 
LCJgan to sponsor Bikathon 
Logan Center is sponsoring a "Bikathon for the Retarded" on Sunday. The bikathon is the most important fund raising event of the year, with money being contributed to the St. Joseph County Council for the Retarded as well as other state and local councils. 
Volunteers are needed to help with registration (beginning at 
12:30 p.m.), serving refreshments, and clean-up (beginning at 5:30 p.m.). 
Sponsors and riders can still sign-up by calling Mike at 1371 or Sue at 4832. A dance, featuring the band "Pages," will be held from 3 to 5:30 p.m. for all riders, spon­sors, and workers. 
McKenna speaks out 
[continued from page 1) 
attempt to make the students aware of the issues, it will have a major impact,'' he said. 
McKenna said that it was "ap­propriate" to take the matter to the Board for two reasons. "First, we are giving reflections to the body that created the CLC a year ago--a progress report. Second, the proposal for student rights deals directly with the role of the CLC," he explained. 
''What is necessary,'' McKenna said, "is a system of checks and balances." 
The "checks and balances" pro-
African films 
to run 
Sunday, Monday 
Two film documentaries on Afri­ca will be shown Sunday and Monday evenings in the Engineer­ing Auditorium. "Nuer", a de­tailed anthropological study of community life among the Nuer tribe, will be shown Sunday and Monday at 6:30 and 9:30 p.m. The film is about 75 minutes long. 
"Last Grave at Dimbaza", to be shown Sunday and Monday at 7:50 and 10:50 p.m., is a hard-hitting documentary on South Africa's policy of Apartheid. The film was photographed clandestinely and smuggled out of the country and focuses on inequities in housing, education, wages, and health care to which blacks and othe officially designated "colored peoples" are subjected. 
posal calls for the CLC to legislate or rescind all University regula­tions. The proposals of the council would then be approved or vetoed by the Vice-President of Student Affairs, who would appear before the council to explain his action. The CLC, under the proposal, would then have the power to appeal his decision to the provost or--if necessary--to the University President. 
McKenna will meet Wednesday with Student Body Vice-President Michael Roohan to plan further strategy for passage of the reform, McKenna said. 

The Mattoon dub held its organizational meeting in Grace Hall last night. [Photo by Mark Ricca] 

unted Bookshop 

52081 U.S. 31 North 
South Bend, Indiana 46637 
Phone (219) 277-1067 
Park free next door at Karl Weis Body Shop 
Welcome to the Haunted Bookshop. We are now open, so come browse through our 10,000 volumes. Free search service for new, used and out-of-print books. 
Hours: 

"'91is sltop IS MUilfOO bq flte g~ ~ 0~ Tues.-Sat. 10am-9pm 
~ Q~...IM~ ~ tlte ~~rod~ 
Sunday 12pm-5pm 

~~ IS a seJiiM ~:· Closed on Mondays 
HFIPPYHDUR 
G11l: an Early Start far 
Michit;~an W1111k~tnd 
jain 
PLANNER & LEMANS 
at 

GDDSE•s NEST 
Friday l:h~t 22th 8:DD ta &:DD Draft11 1.2s MiH1111 •.sa
. ' 

18 the observer Friday, September 22, 1978 

Shedding some enlightening humor on an otherwise dull existence the comedy troupe ''Second City" performed last night in O'laughlin Auditorium. [Photo by 'Mark Ricca] 
GREAT BOOKS··· GREAT GIFT IDEAS! 
THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
A PORTRAIT OF ITS HISTORY AND CAMPUS Hardback s2s.oo BY THOMAS J· SCHLERETH Paperback $7.95 
Frank LaGrotta 
David K. Palmer, a Notre Dame senior, received a special award from the St. Joseph County Blood Program yesterday for his work in volunteer blood donor recruitment at the University. 
Palmer, a native of Salina, Kan­sas, was honored at a special ceremony held yesterday at the local American Red Cross Chapter building in South Bend. He has been in charge of student blood donations at Notre Dame since 1976. 
Palmer is a member of Alpha Phi Omega, a national service frater­nity. As a sophomore he helped establish a blood drawing station at 
the  Student  Health  Center  in  
conjunction  with  the  local  Red  
Cross chapter.  

Palmer. who relinquished control of the program last year when he was elected president of Omega's national chapter, is in charge again this year. He saie his responsibili­ties include getting information to the hall representatives when their hall is scheduled to give blood. 
The blood drawing center oper­ates on Wednesday, Thursday and Friday of various weeks throughout the year. The students in each hall are scheduled to donate on specific days. 
''The response has been excel­lent," Palmer pointed out. "Halls like Dillon, Alumni, Breen-Phillips and Howard always respond well. Notre Dame is a great place for a program of this nature because most of the students here are 



THE NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL SCRAPBOOK 
by Richard M. Cohen $6.95 

NEW SPECIALS ONE FOR THE GIPPER The Light of Notre Dame 
by Patrick Chelland 7.95 By Joe Alvin $8.95 
.. 
. o'f.S 

Out of Bounds 
t 
~ o\ ~._.lea an anecdotal history of Notre Dame Football
( 
·o,. e r
l, $10.00 
I ~ 
5 se'ec\~ \(\ \~ es\ 
'\..at<J Notre Dame Bookstore Second Floo-­
~ 
~~ 
1. 

THE FIGHTING IRISH 
NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL THROUGH THE YEARS By Gildea $12.95 
THE GLORY OF NOTRE DAME 22 GREAT STORIES OF NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL Edited by Fred Katz Reg price $6.95 now $1.95 
ERA OF ARA 
by "fom Pagra with Bob Best $9.95 
SHAKE DOWN THE THUNDER 
THE BIOGRAPHY OF FRANK LEAHY By Wells Twombly Reg price $8.95 now $2.95 
WAKE UP THE ECHOES 
NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL By Ken Rappoport $8.95 . 
WE REMEMBER ROCKNE 
By McCallum & Costuer $7.95 
young, };. ".hy ?!'ld able to contri­bute bloo, ') 
''The fac1uties , Notre Dame are really excellent. :m very pleased with the way things turned out." 
"David has done an excellent job," commented Donna Goss, who serves as Director of Donor Re­cruitment at the South Bend chap­ter of the Red Cross. "He's done a lot of work to make this program a permanent thing at Notre Dame. 
''In the two full years that David has been involved with the pro­gram, the blood donated at Notre Dame has increased 25 percent. That's very good for a campus the size of Notre Dame," she added. 
Palmer cites the work and involve­ment of the Notre Dame com­munity as the reason for the program's success. 
"I fell like I accepted the award for the entire campus," Palmer said. "They've realy made the program work." 
Senior trip registration resumes 
Registration fro the senior class trip will be held tonight between 6 and 7 p.m. the times for register­ing will resume their normal 6 to 
8:30 scheduling this Monday Through Wednesday. 
For those who have not yet registered; only triple occupancy rooms are available. 
~. 
f 



-Prosecutor· Consentino needs no outside help in Pinto case 
ELKHART, IN [AP] • Elkhart County Prosecutor Michael A. Con­sentino says he doesn't need any outside help in his case against Ford Motor Co. on criminal charges stemming from the deaths of three teenage women in a fiery Pinto automobile crash. 
"I have my plan already ar­ranged," Consentino said, adding that he has turned down several offers of technical and legal assis­tance in prosecuting the case. He said he will use some law school professors in the trial. 
Since the unprecedented indict­ments were handed down by an Elkhart Superior Court grand jury last week, Consentino said he has received more than a dozen letters and several telephone calls, mostly applauding the action. 
The grand jury indicted Ford on three counts of reckless homicide, a felony. and one count of criminal recklessness, a misdemeanor. It 
said  the  nation's  second-largest  
auto  maker knew  the  Pinto  fuel  
tanks  were  likelv  to  burst  into  

flames in rear-end collh.ion but did 
Prosecutor's office to Notre Dame students. 
Richardson said that County Commissioner Larrison's office, part of the county's administrative branch, affects Notre Dame stu­dents in matters such as regulation of traffic on football weekends and snow removal. 
The club officers for 1978-79 are President Joe Stovinec, Vice-Presi­dent Kevin GallaiJler, Secretary Tricia Garcia, and~reasurer Don Cleary. 

nothing to alter the design to make the cars safer. 
A Ford attorney, Edward Kala­maros of South Bend. appeared before Elkhart Superior Court Judge Charles Hughes in a five­minute hearing yesterday as ar­raignment was set for Oct. 12. 
Ford is expected to challenge the indictments, but Kalamaros re­fused to comment on the auto 
Young Demos meet 
The Notre Dame-Saint Mary's Young Democrats held their first meeting and elected officers Wed­nesday night. Speeches were given by Frank Sullivan, campaign manager of Congressman John 
Brademas(D-IN); State Senator Bob 
_Kovach; Mike Barnes, candidate for County Prosecutor; and Bill Richardson, a representative of County commissioner Richard Lar­rison. 
Sullivan encouragd student involvement in the campaign of maker's plans. 
Cosentino said he has received letters from attorneys as far away as San Antonio, TX, and Clayton, MO, seeking information on the case to help with similar suits in which they are involved. Most of the letters, however, are from private individuals who tell of their own fights with big corporations. 
Brademas, who is currently House Majority Whip. 
Kovach discussed his work with members of the Logan Center to obtain additional funds for the handicapped, and his work on a 
new  statue  concerning  landlord­ 
tenant  relationships.  He  also  
reiterated  his  stand  in  favor  of  

lowering the drinking age to 18. 
Barnes stressed his experience as Deputy County Prosecutor and the importance of the County 

with Special Guest 
AC/OC 

SATURDAY SEPT. 30 8P.M. NOTRE DAME A.C.C. 
festival seating on floor 1$ 8.50J.. reserved seats S 8.50 and S 7.50 on sale .now at ACC Box offire 
A future domer enjoys a bit of philosophy before her time. [Photo by Mark Ricca] 
~----------------· 
I THE RAMRDDI
1 
rr•s FRIDAY-sa EN.JDY!! 1 1 • Dane• all niiJht ta liv• rack I 
I . and cauntry •••t.rn mu•ic I 
• AI drink• anly St.aa I 
1 II
1 • Pinball and paal tab• I • ND COVER CHARGE 
l•••a: •tap In Saturday far I 
1I zas-4 [Dawntawn] 7as 
Carry outs Bar and dancing til 3am ._................ 
I aur aft•rnaan .Jam ••••ian•-I I cam• •haw yaur tal•nt. 
·•:"':~.-·-: -­
-.-~--~ ·..~-=--=~==·.-:.--:.·..·--·.­
HOUSE 
Toll Road
BEER,WINE, LIQUOR·TO GO. HOT CARRY OUTS TOO! FOR PRE· GAME, DURING THE GAME, 
Toll Road Entrance
OR POST·GAME. EASY ACCESS TO STADIUM. 
JOIN THE FESTIVITIES! CELEBRATE WITH A 
• ''FOOTBALL HIBALL"'

Angela 
-ONLY AT THE OAA HOUSE.'
• 

I THE FIAMRDD 
Phone 272·7818 U.S. 31 North
I Sit 5. Michifilan St. 

• 


,-----­
r'; 
I  ;  
I  \  
'  .  
'  i  
I  I  

I 
I ) 
I ) \ 
\ 
) 
I I I \ f ~ 
t ) 
f l 
I I I l I l ) \ l \ I \ 
l ) 
I 
I ' I ' 
) \ 
I : 
I 
' ' 
I ' 
' 
I 
I ' I I I I I I I I 
I ) 
' I I \ 
I l) 
I 
I 
' I 
I ) I \ I I I I I I 
I I 
) I 
\ I 
I 
\ I 
',  I  
I  
I  I  
I  I  
I  
I  
I  
I  '  
I  I  
;  
I  
' 
)  
;  
I  '  
I  I  
I  I  
\  
)  I  

:\ 
) \ I I ''I 
I ' > I 
I ) 
' ~ 
[~ 
: l :~ 

I
'; 
( 
l 
I 
. 
20 the observer Friday, September 22, 1978 
Court rules against Times reporter 
from revealing sources except upon legitimate demand." 
Farber, who was jailed 27 days in August before being freed pending the high court action, was ordered back to Bergen County Jail at 4 
p.m. Tuesday if he continues to withhold his notes from trial Judge William J. Arnold. 
Farber refused comment. Times Attorney Floyd Abrams said the Supreme Court ruling was "a sad disservice to First Amendment privileges." 
The murder case being tried in Superior Court involves a series of patient deaths at Riverdell Hospital in Oradell 12 years ago. 
Dr. Mario Jascalevich, SO, of Englewood Cliffs, a Riverdell sur­geon at the time, was indicted in 1976 after Farber wrote a series of investigative stories for the Times about the mysterious deaths. 

[continued from page 6] Amendment aliows a reporter to shield notes and confidential sources. 
Two dissenting judes, however, criticized the majority for uphol­ding the contempt citations before a full hearing had been held on whether the subpoena for Farber's notes was specific enough. 
The majority found that a state law protecting reporters from having to reveal confidential infor­mation did not apply because both the federal and state constitutions guarantee people accused of crimes the right to "compulsory process" for witnesses in their defense--in other words, to subpoena testi-m mony that helps them. If a law and the Constitution clash, the Consti· tution rules, the court said. 
The ruling noted, however, that reporters ''are by no means with· out First Amendment protections," 
, including the privilege "to refrain 

HEWLETT-PACKARD INTRODUCES PROFESSIONAL SCIENTIFIC CALCULATORS FOR A 51 UDENT'S BUDGET. 
THE PRICE OF EXCELLENCE  performed an incorrect operation; 2) why it was incor­ 
NOW STARTS AT $60:  rect; 3) if the calculator isn't working properly.  
Now you can get the same quality. durability and  Accuracy. Improved algorithms give you confidence  
many of the features found in Hewlett-Packard's  that your answers are more precise and complete.  
professional calculators-at a price you can afford. Introducing Series E for science.  FROM BASIC SCIENCE TO ADVANCED PROGRAMMABLE.  
DESIGNED FOR STUDENTS.  The HP-31E-Scientific. $60:" Trigonometric, exponen­ 
Easy-to-read displays. Larger. brighter LED display  tial and math functions. Metric conversion. Fixed  
with commas to separate thousands, easier on the  and scientific display modes. Full 10-digit display.  
eyes during those long hours of study.  4 separate user memories.  
Built-in diagnostic systems.  The HP-32E-Advanced Scientific with Statistics. $80:~  
~(/h~?...... You'll now be working on  All HP-3IE functions plus hyperbolics and compre­ 
many new challt::nging  hensive statistics. More math and metric capabilities.  
problems-that's why  Decimal degree conversions. ENG. SCI and FIX  
Series E has diagnos­ display modes. 15 user memories.  
tic systems that  The HP-33E-Programmable Scientific. SlOO:" Scientific,  
tell \'OU:  math and statistics with programmability. Editing. con­ 
I) -when you've  trol and conditional keys. 49 lines of fully merged key  
codes. 8 user memories.  
HEWLETT-PACKARD IS WITHOUT EQUAL.  
All Series E calculators use RPN logic exclusively.  
If you've never tried it. you're in for a big  
surprise. It lets you solve problems  
the way you'tlaturally do in  
your mind. Straightfonvard.  
Logical. No worrying  
about complicated  
hierarchies or parentheses.  
RPN is the shortest possible  
distance betwt:cn the ques­ 
tion and the answer  
SEE FOR YOURSELF.  
To hd p you sdect the  
calculator that's right for  
you, we've prepared a  
booklet entitled. "The  
Student's Choice... the  
Logical Choice:· Pick up a copy  
at nmr h<x1kstore or nearest  
Hewlt:tt-Pacbrd dealer. when vou  
stop by to see S.:ries E. For the address.  
CALL TOLL-FREE 800-648-4711  
except' from Hawaii or Alaska. In  
Nevada call 800-992-5710.  
When you stop by your dealer  
to sec Series E, be sure to see our  
other professional calculators:  
the advanced programmable  
HP-29C and HP-19C with printer;  
and the HP-67 mag-card  
programmable.  
But do it soon. A Hewlett-Packard  
professional calculator priced for a  
student's budget is something  
you can't afford to pass up.  
HEWLETTllPACKARD  
Dept 0000. 1000 N. E. Circle Blvd., Corvallis OR 97330  




•Suggested retail price excludmg applicable state and local """sr-Continentnl 
U.S A. Alaska & Haw.aii. Displays are photographt.'Cl separatelv to simulate nctual appe:1r;~nce. 616171 
.. 
.. 


PLACEMENT BUREAU 
Friday, Septembe~r~2~2:.t,....!1:?_:97~8~____..Jt~huiii..I0111h._sililaEI.rv_..••· _ _.2LL1 
Movement meets at Howard
Main Bulldtnc 
INTERVIEWS SCHEDliU:D FOil WED:. OF OCTOBER 2 
:·:~:·· . 

Int~rviews are for seniors andgraduat.,. stu<lents. Stan-up schedules are in RoOUI 213~ Main Buildlna. Interview times muat be a~d for in person. The sign-up period at the ~l&eement Bureau will be fro. 8,00 a.m. to 5•00 p.m.,
Monday through Friday. 
Argonne National Ub0tato9' 
PhD in ChE. 
E-Systems, Garland 

BMJ> in EE, Physics • Math, Camp ScL 

by Rob Powers 
"The Charismatic Movement sim­
ply involves people who take the 
Holy Spirit seriously,'' Father Ed 
O'Connor, Associate Prof~ssor of 
Theology told a Charismatic Forum 
last night. "When you begin to 
take him seriously he begins to act 
in your life with power. 
O'Connor, a widely recognised 
author and specialist on Charis­
matic Renewal, addressed the 
Forum in the Howard Hall Chapel. 
''The Charismatic Movement is a rediscovery of the Holy Spirit," he said. In light of Pentacost he added. "The Holy Spirit began the Churc:J. The Church is the framework which grew up around it." 
O'Omnor traced the origin of "char:sms" or "gifts of God" to St. Paul, who speaks of "tongues," prophesies, and supernatural gifts in his Letters. "The church of Jesus was a charismatic church," he saicl. "These signs accom­panied those who bleieved." 
O'Connor stressed that the Holy Spirit has become a kind of "meaningless entity" among Christians, "mentioned only when we bless ourselves." 
"There are a lot more miracles in the Church today than we generally recognize," Father O'Connor said. He pointed to some contemporary miracle accounts which have not been reported or investigated by the Catholic press. 

Four other people related their 
experiences with the Charismatic 
Movement during the Forum. 
Brother John Levelle described 
the Charismatic prayer meeting. 
''A prayer meeting has no prayer 
book to go by; prayers come out of 
our hearts, sometimes extempora­
neously, and sometimes almost 
scaring us.'' The meeting begins 
with the reading and discussion of 
Scripture passages, followed by a 
period of prayer, which may in­
clude prophesy and "speaking in 
tongues. •' It is followed by a Mass. 
Mike Cunesh, a freshman, dis­cussed his involvement in the healing of cancer and other incur­able diseases during his two years in the Movement. 
Betty Jean Valdez, a graduate student, said the Movement taught her how to pray prayers of praise, in addition to prayers of petition and thanksgiving. 
Andy and Linda Knapp. a South Bend couple, described their ex­periences with the Movement. Andy, who had taken drugs in high school, was workin to form a commune when he saw the rele­vance of Christianity to his goal. Eventually he became active in Charismatic prayer groups. 
When questioned after the Forum about the theological implications of the movement, O'Connor said. "There is no new doctrine involved in this: it is a revival of the old doctrine." 
"Charismatics believe very strongly that Scripture is the Word of God," O'Connor said. He added, however, that they do not debate the point of taking the Bible literally, leaving that question for scholars. He pointed to the fact that some prominent Biblical scho­lars are in the movement. 
About fifty students attend the weekly prayer meeting in the Log Chapel, according to 0 'Connor. The movement is not highly struc­tured, he said, and there are other Charismatic groups similar to O'Connor's on campus. 
Although the Charismatic Move­ment was founded at Duquesne University in 1966, Notre Dame has played a prominent role in publiciz­ing the movement. Every summer since 1967, between twenty and twenty-five thousand Charismatics have met at Notre Dame for their three-day convention. 
Sale planned 
The Eleventh Annual Michiana Nennonite elief Sale will be held tomorrow in Goshen from 6 a.m. to 5 p.m. All proceeds form the sale, which will be on the lkhart county Fairgrounds, go to the Mennonite 
Central Committee for  relief and  
self help ministries  at  home and  
overseas.  

A quilt actuion will begin at 8 
a.m. 
and an antique auction at 11 

a.m. 
At 1 and 2 p.m. auctions will be held for both "ne items" and "used items." Meals will be served all day long. 



Nations\ Steel Cotperation B in ME, EE, Met~ MKJ,O. 

Oct 2/3 !he Boeing Company 
Mon/Tues BMD in AE, EE, Engr Set. CE Celanese Corporation BH in Ch£ and Chern. 
~ Bechtel Power Corporation Tuea BM in ME, EE, CE, 
Stellite Division, Cabot Corporation B in Met. MBA with Marketing backgrnd or concntrn. University of Denver•. Grad. School (}f Bus. & Public MgL B in all undergrad. disciplines. 
Johnson Controls,  Inc  
B in ME, K Mart  EE, Comp Sci.  
B1iil:ib. Arts and  Bus.  Ad.  
Warner &Swasey  
BM  in EE, ME,  HEIO.  
Oc.t 3/4  Bethlehem. Steel Corpor~  
Tues/Wed  B  in ME,  ChE,  EE,  Met,  

{structures}. 

: TIMM PARTY STORE I * OPEN:MON-SAT 9am-llpm * ** SUNDAY 12noon-ll pm #* 
: BEERSALE :
#3114 S.ll ST. NILES, MICHIGAN:
* 1 Block North of State Line on U.S. 31 * 
************•***************** 
d.UNSHINE rROMOTIONS rRESEN~ 

and Notre Dame Student Union Present
~ 


A Spectacular Homecoming Event ttRust Never Sleeps'' an evening with-­
Neil toung 
Crazy Horse 
Thurs, Oct. 11 Spm Notre Dame ACC 
All seats reserved $8.50 $7.50 on sale now at: ACC Box Offace, 
First Bank Main Branch, Robertson's-South Bend and Elkhart, St. Joe Bank & Branches, Boogie Records, River City RPCords, Just for the Record, Suspen?ed Cord ~nd Elkhai t Truth in Elkhart, Record Jomt iiJ N1les 

, ..The Perfect Master" Created lr Performed by JOH• BELUSHII 
01Mr Voices by: aiU. MUIUlAY • MYAN ·DOYU MUIUUII'f • CltaiiTWMUl a.sT AN INTERNATIONAL HARMONY RELEASI • .._to...~wldt .............. TARZAN C>INTERNIITIONAL HARMONY 
.. 
• 





, 
~ 
_,____}__...,.111111111!11_... 
22 the observer Friday, September 22, 1978 

by Ml,hacl Molinelli 

TilE fJtFmE.S­
7JIE BEEP, -TilE &AH£5 cumNG ClASS -THE' A6HT5­/XiJJJ.£A4RE5 · 7H£ PAI{I7E5 ­




I 
I ! 
If 
I f 
'·' 
) DAN!! YouR IMII6HTER{HoW COULD YOUr?? 
l ---.......... 
; ~ 
:{ 
) 
: ~ .' 
I, 

ACROSS 
1 Partner for Rogers 8 House styles (2 wds.) 15 Former Yankee 
manager 16 Campus building 17 Delighted 18 Cereal garnish 19 Preffx: straight 20 Ambler or Hoffer 22 College basketball 
tourney 23 Bear: Sp. 24 Goes backwards .27 Clamor 29 Bookstore category 31 Annoy 33 Wen 34 -share 38 L.A. suburb near 
Burbank 40 Gossip dose 41 Quebec peninsula 42 Aparicio or Tiant 45 -consequence 46 Sweet pepper 49 Chicago time 
(abbr.) 50 Ready for use 53 --tse 

55-de plume 25 Noted jazz vocalist 56 Alpine goat 26 Former Washington57 Peach or cherry name 60 Address part 27 Piece of sediment 
(2 wds.) 28 New Rochelle col­63 River in Hades lege 65 Finished (2 wds.) 30 Galbraith's field, 66 "-d'Amour," for short 
1958 song 32 Fra Filippo---­67 West Indies group 35 Astray (2 wds.)68 Pauper's wear 36 Sisters 
37 Scheduled time position
DOWN 39 Playwright Simon 1 Concerning (2 wds.) 40 Boston time (abbr.) 2 Mix up 42 Social reformers 3 Science of con-43 River to the 
struction Ubangi 4 Egyptian emblems 44 Estimated 5 Arctic dwellings 47 -voyage 6 Dakotas Indian 48 Passe (2 wds.) 7 Aged 50 Soldier from Mel­
8 0. K. bourne 9 Small horse-drawn 51 French interjection carriage 52 With plenty to 10 Baseball statistic spare11 "-longa, vita 54 Verbal contraction 
brevis" 58 Impecunious12 Water pipes 59 River to the Danube 13 Sergeant Bilka 61 Part of NCO (abbr.)
14 Methods (abbr.) 62 Eggs21 Sports officials 64 Half a Latin dance 


THE NEW 

BARNABY'S 
NOW OPEN 

Grape Road & Edison Sttalght down Edison, 2 miles from campus -you can't miss ltl 
Quick Service on Noon Lunches 
r 

Servin~ Pizza-* Sandwiches* Soft Drinks Cold drafts bil the Stein, Jumbo glass and Pitcher 
Carry -Outs ... Phone 256-0928 -~n 11 am-11:30 pm Mon. thru Thurs. --Fri. & Sat. 11-12:30 
OPEN SUNDAY 4 PM 'TIL 10 PM 
BARNABY'S 715 E. Jefferson, South Bend 
. .. 
• 

~~~Gme Hours, SGme Frlendi.Y Service -288-4981 
Friday, September 22, 1978 the observer 23• 
1 --CLASSIFIED ADS CLASSIFIED. ADS CLASSIFIED RD&-. 
I Must have ·2-4 GA Pitt tickets. Susan LOST AND FOUND Help! I need Purdue Tickets!! Call Anne Need 1GA·s torT.,..,.. cau 811111604. 
I
4+4407. . Lost: Plastic green bender ln the 4236. bookstore on Friday Sept. 15. ContainsNOTICES 
I I Typing-Selectric Typewriter. Experi-Need 1 ticket for· Michigan gaine, call syllabus fot 3 courses and some very Need two GA Tickets for Pittsburg. Call CALIFORNIA GIRL· I 
Keep that competitive edge.
Mike at 7838. important information. If found PLEASE John 3419.
enced Term Papers, Dissertations. 
call 7889.­

I Reasonable-Accurate. 232·5715. Paul D'Aiessandro: 
I
Need 4 GA tlx for Purdue Game. Call Need 2 GA Miami tix. Please call Rob 
We missed you so,
Jeananne 6561. Lost: Green Wallet near K of Chall. If 4574.
I 
All ND-SMC Students from Georgia And now you know! I
found tall S. Lei bet 1407. Reward. 

1 
(especially Metro-Atlanta Area) inter-The Terrible Trio from the ested In forming club. (Rides. Parties) Desperately Desire, . Big Money Murf needs Purdue and Pitt Red Light District
General Admission Tickets to the Pitt Lost: Gold Chain and Cross on Field tickets. Call after 5:00 234-8858. 
I
Call Sue: 4-1-4407 
game. You name the price Call Jaynie Between towers and Library. Reward. 
I 
You don't know where the core Is? AskI s;;dai Discount to All ND and SMC OB at 7889. Call Jim Sf}89. PERSONALS Wayne and Frances; Be there by 3:00. II student on Automotive parts. All you Need GA's to Pitt. Money no object!! Lost: Parker fountain pen sliver with gold BEmM­
need is your I0 card. You deserve Leslie,
Call Tom 277-1071. point and clip Call1693. Reward. Belated Happy Birthday.
Hoffman Bros. Auto Electric the best. The commodores and f think you are II 1101 E. Madison "Three times a Lady." Thank you and
Desperately need GA's to Michigan, as Lost: ladle's Gold Watch (Wittnauer
1 So. Bend. many as you can spare. $$$ Call Mike Geneva) on Wed. Sept. 20 around-9:30 Red Headed-Bed-Bug (RBB) Here's to a Happy Birthday. I 2n-1on. • a.m. Lost somewhere on road around new year of popcorn and crack of dawn Love Peter I 
I 
Gay Students of Notre Dame information. tennis courts on the way to Hayes-Healy P.S. Boz Too!
conversations.
Call Friday September 22 Saturday 
Anxious for 2 Pitt Tickets for Mom and Center. If found, please call 272-7445 FW 
I 
September 23 10:00 pm -12:00 pm or The Cosmlck Den Is at It again. In the I
Dad, Call Matt 234-2354. Watch has sentimental value and will
write P.O. Box 206. Interests of further cosmicity we'll be I
offer reward. c.c. 
You have just been unanimously voted having a Close to The Edge party tonlte.
Need ride to Chicago Friday afternoon­
I FOR SALE: 6 Michigan Tickets Cheap!! Found: Women's Gold Band Ring with the best looking in the freshman class. If you know where its at you should
will share expenses. Call 289-1572.
~~hn1n4. . Inscription on walkway in front of Now you must kiss all the judges. consider yourself Invited. I 
I 
EXPERIENCED TYPIST·Fast Service­Help reaffirm my belief in miracles! I Madeleva on Wednesday, Sepf. 13. Call Anxiously Awaiting Cosmlck I need 2 GA Michigan tickets. Call 7823 (Andrea) and identify.
Reports, Papers, Resumes, etc. Call Marian Vlicny:
Okee Dokee284-4719 and help make my day.
1287-6407. Found: One pair of Dr. Scholl's at Sr. What can I say? You're the greatest. (At Have a fantastic 21st birthday! Aloha!! I
From the Hawalin Crowd
Need 1Mich GA will pay Big Bucks. Call Picnic on Friday Sept. 8 Call Barb 7953. what, I don't know, but whatever it is,
I 
Sponsors needed for ride-a-bike for the you're the best) I
Jeff 1424. 
I 
retarded Bike-A-Than riders! They are FOR SALE Your favorite Joe, riding 25 miles this Sunday. Could you Welcome back to NO!! We miss you.
Please show compassion! Need GA FOR SALE: Dunlop max. ply fort brand Flubber fan I
back them with 5or 10 cents amile? The Love Gina
tickets to Purdue. Call Mac 6551. new 45/8 inches with synthetic cut worth 
I 
money goes to local and state council's $60.00 asking 35.00; Down jacket, men's Toots, Ifor the retarded. We need ytJur help! Tennis and racquetball rackets strung
Michigan Game! red large $30.00: Set of vintage pre 1960 I don'twanttosay 'I told you so' But I'll 
JoeShould have taken it

I 
Call Mike at 1371. Will pay huge piles of greenback for tix. · golf irons with imitation bamboo shafts tell you anyway. professionally at affordable price I
FOR RENT 

Call pat 289-3863. · and woods plus new golf bag-$35.00 Call Pass-Fail. It's much easier. Montroy 1469. 
I 
"House for rent. 5 Large private Mark at 8551 after 7:00 pm.
bedrooms. All furnished $300.00 8er Bilshi is dog spelled backwards. Need ride to Northwest side of Chicago I
Please Family coming to Purdue game.
month plus utilities and deposit. as For Sale: on Friday Sept. 22. Please call Nancy
Need 4 tix. Leslie 5347. 2 Yes Tickets Lower Arena­
I
heat. Call 287-1543 8 to 5, Mr. padded Call AI or Tony 4683. Howe fast can the fish fly to Sunhillow if 4-1-4105. King Richard is chasing him in his White
I DERouck." WANTED: Michigan tix call 8991 or 
8928. For Sale: Still waiting for classbooks? Moorglade Mover? Interested in Horseback riding instruct-I ions? Contact-Melissa Cipkala. SMC
WANTED Pandora's has special 5-day order 1I Wanted: 2 Michigan Tickets-Will pay WANTED: GA tix to Tennessee call Eric service. We also buy books behind NO Interested in attending the WOMEN'S 5409; 415 MC or Jo Hell 683-4467.1anything!! John 1714. 1384. apartments. 233-2342. ORDINATION CONFERENCE? Matthew, I
Baltimore. Nov. 1Q-12. Contact the You, in real are better than any
I 
NEED 2 STUDENT TICKETS AND 2-4 Czechoslovakian Swingers Jorge and Imported clottiing, jewelry, book, para­CCUM office 1112 Memorial Library. life, 1 
Rocky Horror Picture Show...Maybe
GA'S TICKETS FOR PURDUE. WOULD Yortuk coming up for Mich. game to phenalia and gifts for men or women.I APPRECIATE HELP CALL KATHY OR check out the foxes. Need 2 student or Bring this ad and your college ID and God is not Bilski. He tried, but... Stranger, Too! 1 
Lov~ 

I 
I TRISH AT 4--1-4391. HELP!!! GA tix. Call3489-ask for Alfonzo. receive a15 percent discount on your next purchase. (excluding sale and consign­Sunday is Mike Fitzgerald's 21st birthday Never Seen It 1 Ex-~ath majors never completed thesis ment articles). Expires Oct. 1, 1978. but he'll be accepting drinks Friday Help! Need 2Purdue Student tickets Call on "alcohol and Notre-Dame" but would Jennifers afternoon through Monday morning. Hi Beautiful, I
Let's go cause some trouble.
Jeff at 1735. like to continue research at Mich. game. Scottsdale Mall Funeral Flowers can be sent to 350 
P.S. You bring the togas!
need 2 Student or GA tix. Call 3489-ask upper level Cavanaugh. 
PMDR 
I 
I 
I Part time Work available. If you are for Poindexter. pleasant and have anice voice, we have a '78 Jeep CJ-7 Renegade. 10,000 miles. Ubby, TIT from the RLD,
I couldn't do It, just couldn't. Maybe nest
few openings setting appointments in our Need at least 4 GA tickets for Purdue, 28g:9818 or 233-8182. I 
I'm ready for my welcome home kissesweek.
I 
busy South Bend store. Hours flexible. Pitt, or Tenn. Call Mark 8773. 75 Mustang II Mach I, V6, 4 speed, M· and more ?( Name the time and place. ICall 233-1181. Ask for Marsha. 
Need 1,2,3,4 Mich GA tix Money no stereo, $2400. 289-9818 or 233·8182. 
Sonny,
I Desperately needed: Three tickets Object. Brian 1610. Bill, I hope the loft is ready by the time I I 
Hope you have real "wet" birthday.
I 
student or for Game '76 Mustang II, Cobra II, V8, 4 speed, come for your birthday.
GA Michigan Please! Call Brien 3072. Will Trade I GA michigan ticket for 1 GA stereo, under $4000. 289-9818 or -Margaret I'm sure you will in one way or another. I 
H.B.D. 
or student Pitt ticket. Call 1439. 233-8182.I Need 4 GA for Pitt. Call Dave 1209. Happy Birthday Tom from all your P.S. Sorry about Preppy I 
friends In Lyons, Badin, Fawley, Walsh, your drop from the
Need 1 GA Mich Tix Call Larry 8701. '76 MGB, 22,000 miles, under $4000. 
Breen-Phillips and St. Mary's-and from bunk.
II need 2 GA Purdue Tix will pay your 289-9818 or 233-8182. I 
your roommates.
1price call Russ at 8n2. Anxious for 2 Pitt tickets for Mom and Good luck Irish IQIInd Michigan. From I
Dad Call Matt 234-2354. 1 season student football .ticket. Call 
I 
I need GA's or Student Tickets for Purdue 288-1615 Ask for Mark. Congrats to Mary Scannell and Theresa tilt SMC~No lnnabruck gang. Game Please Help! Call Mike 1219. Will trade 14th Row floor Yes Ticket and Simmens: South Dining Hall's Checkees I 
or cash for Excellent Neil Young Ticket I need 4Purdue GA tickets $$$ Call1786. of the Week. JIM• 
It's been "REAL" since I met you. I 
I 
I Experienced male or female Barenders, CAll Dave at....3610. Waiters or Waitresses, also Dishwashers Need Mich Tix Student or GA Call Happy B'day Mare Glad you're legal! Happy Birthday. See you tonight.at the University Club. Come in person Need 2 GA Michigan Tlx Call Jim at 288-8417 at night. Love The Nittany lions. I 232-o550. 
I 
I or call-7093. 5 IRA Activists, fresh from the front, Dear Snooky, Tom, I Desperately need 4GA tix for Pitt game. Help Wanted-Temporary Position-Fri­want to see 2 things in Lifetimes: Welcome to NO Stop at the "Gippers" for a birthday 
drink-tell them Louise sent you.
Freedom and NO kill Tennessee 5 GA Je t'adore.
Will pay Top $ Call Mike 8422 day sbefore home football games 2-8 pm Happy I
Birthday.
tennessee or 2 Miami $$ Call Mike 3596 Te Amo. lch Lei be Dich.
Good pay. Call Herbie's Deli 234-6519 
Louise 
I

or 3596. Te iubesc.
I Need 2 GA Purdue tickets. Will spare no . from 6-8 pm.
I cost. Call Max 8659. Route Driver-needed evenings 8-10:30. Ilove you. Earn $3 to $4 per hour. Must be reliable URGENT: Need 2 GA to any home Happy Eyes. MAUREEN C. I 
I 
HELP!! I need 2 or 4 GA tickets for and have own transportation. Call games. Pay big money. Call 283-1951. HAPPY BIRTHDAYIII Nancy-All women are...
Michigan Call Mike 289-2046. 234-6519 from 6-8 pm. I 
Desperately need Michigan tlxs 2 GA And the minute.,., RICH 8. 
KEEP YOUR EYES OPEN IN CLASS.
and 2 Student will also trade 2 YES main JD
I Need 2 GA tickets for Purdue and or Needed 2 GA Purdue tickets Call Jeff I
YOU NEVER KNOWIIIIIIIIII
floor for Mich tix. Money is no object!!! P.S. Rocks are forever.
I Tenn. Will pay big$$$ 288-4211. 1479. 
Call Rick 8694. 
I 

To all the younR ladles who have yet to
I 
Need 2 GA Purdue tickets for Boss Call Need Student or GA Michigan Tickets· 
Need Student Ticket for Purdue will pay welcome Paul DAlessandro back to NO, PARTYII Aftlr tM MlchtpngamutUlt I
Don 1384. Call Katie 4-4148. 
well 3508. give him a call at 1002. ANIMAL HOUSE. 201. E. Nmm TunI FOOTBALL PHOTOGRAPHS WANTED! Need GA tlx for Purdue and Pitt. Joe m from the RLD 11ft off 31 at Memortal Hospital I dU 1 I
Need 1or 2GA Purdue Tickets. Money

I 
NO Action shots needed for new book. 1478. 
is no problem. Call Tom 3010. 

1 
Large acknowledgement; small remuner-I ation. Icarus Press, POB 11, NO 46556; Hillbilly family coming from California to 
Would someone please help Mimi at I
291-3200 learn about football. Need 2 GA or 
SMC. She desperately needs 2 GA

student tickets for Michigan will also take 
Michigan tickets Call her at 284-4719.

I Desperately need 2 GA or student Purdue or Pitt GA tix. Call 3489 ask for II Michigan Tickets. Call Maria 288-3831. Jethro. 
Need Student or GA Michigan Tickets ICall 8686.
HELP WANTED: Anastasios Restaurant Addressers wanted IMMEDIATELY! 1611 S. Main St. Call 234-3258 Welcome Work at home-no experience necessary­I
I
I ND-SMC students!! excellent pay. HELP!! Have to have 1 GA Michigan
Write American Service, 

ticket. Call Mary 4-1-4359. I
8350 Park Lane, Suite 127, Dallas TX I Desperately need two Michigan tickets 75231. 
WANTED: 1 Michigan Student or GA

Call Kathy at 4-1-5764. I
ticket. Will pay$. Call4-1-5411.

WANTED: Two GA tickets for PurdueI WANTED: 2-4 GA tlx for Purdue. Please game. Call Michele 8007. I
Need 2 to 4 Michigan tickets 3441 3441

I Help! I'm desperate. Call Laura 6731. 
.. 3441.

WANTED: 2GA Purdue tix. Can pay big I I Need 4 GA Michigan Tickets Call Ruth bucks or trade 2 Pitt tlx. Debbie 8150. 
Need Pitt tickets Any kind, any price.

7136 Afternoons 272-3513 Evenings. I
Dave 8853.

WANTED: One student football ticket for llneed GA tix for Michigan. Will pay $$ Purdue game. Call 4-1-4243. 
I
Notre Dame-Michigan Tickets wanted.

Call Gary 6143. 
Exchange for tickets to next years sellout

Desperately need 2 GA Purdue tickets. 
I
game In Ann Arbor or money. 1-31~

1 Mom and Dad need 2tickets for Purdue. Chuck 289-6n1. 
7230.

Call Dan 8252. 
I

1 
Desperately need 3GA Michigan tickets. 
NEED I PITTSBURGH TICKET. IF YOU

I 
Desperately need two Michigan GA tix Call Carl 272-4478. 
I
CAN HELP I WOULD APPRECIATE IT.

Call Cindy 4+5484.
I 
CALL KATHY 4--1-4G.
NEED 2 GA OR STUDENT TICKETS 
PAYMENT. All dassifieds must be rJre..paid, ett~~•l 
I
WILL PAY$$$. FOR MICHIGAN JOHN 1785. 
NEED 2-4 MIAMI TICKETS. GENERAL 

in person or throuah the mail. ·
I Need Purdue Tickets (GA) Call Bob at 
ADMISSION. PLEASE HELP CAU 

.. I I
NEEDED: 2 GA tickets to Purdue, Ptt
11780. 
TRISH 4--1-4381.

and/or Tennessee. Call John 8828. 
DEADUNE.'AII classified ads must be received 
My Parents are coming this weekend and 
5:00 p.m., two ct.ys prior to the issue in which the
I need two Michigan tickets for them. Need 2Miami GA tlx • Call Tim at 1771. 
WANTED DESPERATELY: 4 GA tickets 

is to run. The ot.en.r office will aa:.f1Jt daliSif,ieQal I
I 
The price of their admission Is no to Michigan Game. Will pay Good $ 
Monday throuah Friday, 10:00 a.m. to 5:00p.m.
object-they are worth It!! Need 1-2 GA and 1-2 Student Michigan Mary lu~996. Call Mark at 1035. Tickets. Sue 4-1-4407.
-------------...---------------~-----------------A­


24 the observer Friday, September 22, 1978 
For Irish harriers 
Welch anticipates succesful season 
by Gregory Solman "So we're training 'consistent-knew the sport before they got Welch, "One does feel a certain around and let the miles go by, or Sports Writer ly'," related the harrier captain, here. They're doing very well." unity between the body and the you can seriously think about "asopposedto'veryhard'. We're Steve Welch even reserves a mind." racing,aboutbeingreadywhenthe 
With the biggest meet so far this just trying to keep a lid on things.'' little time to worry about himself. • This has been a difficult fall to time comes. . . '' year slated this afternoon at East "Keeping a lid on things" is not "I'm not into running as an train. The weather has been hot, For the Irish cross-country team, Lansing, one might think that the as easy as it might sound. asthetic thing," relates Welch on the air, humid and heavy; not at all Coach Joe Piane, and co-captain strategy of the past week for the Especially when the team holds . his running philosophy, "I realize ideal conditions for the training of Steve Welch, the time may come Irish has been to train as hard and within its grasp the first viable that some people talk about it this long-distance runners. However, November 20, in Madison, Wiscon­get as "mentally up" as is humanly chance it has had to make the way and refer to a 'runner's high', the cross-country team has sin. possible. Nationals in Madison, Wisconsin. but as for myself, and, I might add, managed to remain loose and "It should be nice and cold up 
But according to Irish cross­Last year, the team faced tough for most of the other runners, interested. there," laughed Welch. country co-captain Steve Welch, odds against some of the nations cross-country is a chance to "It doesn't get boring when you And that may be a welcome his duties of late have been quite best cross-country teams in the compete.'' run with a group of guys,'' said change in the weather for all of the the opposite. District IV qualifiers. Despite a "I have to admit, though," says Welch, "You can either goof Irish runners. 
"This is certainly our first big good showing by the Irish, against dual meet,'' confirmed the senior powerful teams from the Big Ten, from Hanibal, Missouri, ''But right the Mid-American Conference, and now we're just trying to keep the big independents, the Irish things low key. It's too early in the were unable to rate as one of the season to be running all-out. We four teams selected from the have to reaJize that there is a long division. season ahead." But this year will be different -or 
And if recent team performance so says Welch. is any indication, intimated Welch, "Our whole team is prepared to Michigan State should fall prey to go this year,' ' stressed a deter­the tough Irish team without much mined Welch, "We are a better problem, even if every runner team than we were last year; I'd doesn't run his utmost best. say that this is the best team that 
"The first year I came here, in we've ever had here.'' 1975, we hadn't defeated Michigan This, according to Welch, is due State for over ten years," recalls in large part to the outstanding Welch, "Since that time, we've recruiting of Piane, who wooed beaten them twice and lost to them · several "blue-chip" athletes this only once." year in Ed Bolmber of Portland, 
"Incidently," the veteran Welch Oregon, Tony Hatherly of Thunder noted, "That was the first year we Bay, Ontario, and Chris Lattig of were coached by Joe Piane, which Gresham, Oregon. should give you some idea of what "As a captain, these freshmen he's done with the program -it's have posed very little problems," gone nothin.a but up." added Welch, "These guys really 
Tony Pace 

·===============================================================================:============================================: 
Trade Bait 
.;:;:;:::::===:===:===:===:=:==============================================;====================== 
Joe Washington ­

Trades are a part of life for any professional athlete. Players who I' remain on the same team for the duration oftheir career are few and
r J'• 
far between. So one would expect that an athlete's performance shouldn't change drastically when a trade occurs. But this is rarely true. 

A recent case involves the trade of Joe Washingthon from the San Diego Chargers to the Baltimore Colts. Washington, a running back, was dealt away along with an undisclosed draft choice for by Kathy Campanella In the second half, the Notre Hums totaled 18 saves, eleven of Lydell Mitchell. Mitchell was in the midst of a contract dispute with Sports Writer Dame offense showed their aggres­which were in the second half. the Colts. The Colts unloaded him for what seemed to most siveness by scoring with just over Defensive leaders included Carrie 
'I observers to be a very deflated price. Mitchell had been the On Wednesday, the women's two minutes gone by. Putting the Rooney, junior Susie McGlinn, and /,' mainstay of the Colts' offense for the past three of four seasons. He field hockey team won the opener goal in was sophomore Carrie senior Donna Carini, but it was a was their top rusher and their top pass receiver. of their 1978 season by defeating Rooney, assisted by Tollaksen. team effort that helped the Irish 
Washington, meanwhile, had shown little in San Deigo. He was a Goshen College by a score of 3-2. The tide of the game again turned, prevail. ') top draft pick out of OklahOina three years ago and everyone The game was a hard-fought one when at 5:38, Goshen tallied its 
When asked about her team'sexpected him to be an instant smash in the professional league. throughout both halves. With less second goal. Not to be defeated,
~~.: 
lj performance, Coa~h Astrid Hot­
His monicker at OU was silver wheels and he raced for over 5000 than ten minutes gone in Hie first the Notre Dame squad came back
Iif. 
yards in his collegiate career. But he wrecked his knee early in the half, Goshen netted the first goal. and at 18:44, scored the game's vedt seemed pleased. She 
ir'
);;· commented that during the second 
pre-season and had to undergo surgery. It was a lost season. Last Undaunted, the Notre Dame team final and winning goal. The score ' I year he came back but he did not at all resemble the player he had rallied and at 11:23, senior Mary came off a !ihort corner play. half she told the girls, "Pull up
' 
ill been in college. He was used sparingly and did little. Clair Tollaksen scored, tying the Crowell hit the ball to Tollaksen your socks and get your sticks 
down I'', and they did just that.
So, before the opening of the 1978 campaign he was traded to the game. Getting the assist was who then passed it to Rooney who
r~
(: Colts. Same player right? Wrong! Washington looked as though sophomore Pat Crowell. The took the shot, getting her second On Wednesday, September 27, someone had breathed some life into him before last Monday remainder of the first half became a goal of the game. the Irish will travel to Taylor ·! night's game against the New england Patriots. Ole Silver Wheels defensive battle as the score was The Notre Dame defense played College and attempt to up their carried the ball six times for 53 yards. Moreover, he looked like his still 1-1 when time ran out. excellently. Senior goalie Mary record to 2-0. 
r 
f i old self, darting, leaping and slithering his way for ~very possible yard. Washington threw an option pass for a touchdown caught a pass from Bill Troup for another score, and then stunned everone in 
~ Foxboro Stadium, not to mention that he won the game by 
·~ 
~ SMC netters win 2, lose 1
returning a kickoff for a touchdown. Washington alone accounted
•I 
d 
for 18 of the Colts 34 points.i Why was Washington so effective Monday night for the Colts by Anne Da~vey and Williams, 6-4, 6-0. And for Saint 6-3 was Goshen· s second and final while he had never done for the Chargers? The Colts needed him. Mary Ellen Hill Mary's only victory of the day, victory of the evening. Both 
Mitchell's departure left a huge gap in the Colt offense. Coach Ted Sports W rlters number six singles Carmelle number one and two SMC doubles 
r 
![ 
Marchibroda told Washington that it was up to him to fill that gap. Maenza defeated Lyn Faller, 7-6, etams were successful with scores It was a masterful psychological tactic by Marchibroda. 6-4. of 10-S, 10-S. -J Washington has always been the big gun in the Sooner offense but The Saint Mary's tennis team In the only doubles match com­After the match yesterday, co­l when he went to San Diego4be was just another running back, albeit finished the week with a slate of 3-1 pleted, SMC's Daniels and Schus­captain Maureen O'Brien said a highly paid one. With the Colts he is back to hts old situation, he by losing to DePauw on Tuesday, ter lost to Gyorgyi and Torman, "The team is really looking forward ·; will be the hub of the colt offense. When Bert Jones returns the and defeating Indiana Central and 7-6, 6-1, in the number one to its match Monday against de· Colt offense should be as good as ever. Washington should Goshen College on Wednesday doubles match. The number two fending State Champions Valpa­
.til,, 
flourish in Baltimore, he should be able to realize some of the and Thursday respectively. match was called because of dark­raiso." potential he exhibited in colle2e. Trades can make a player. The The sweltering heat in Green­ness. And in the number three Browns have been the surprise team of the season. They castle, Indiana, along with the doubles, Maenza and Domenici 
!. q have beat the 49ers and the Bengals, not much surprise there, but DePauw girls' tennis team, proved were tied with Williams and Faller *Observer 
I 
they also beat the Falcons. Without the services of Greg Pruitt, the to be too much for the Saint Mary's at one set apiece, 6-4, 6-7. when ·iI Browns scored 24 points against the once vaulted Atlanta tennis team this past Tuestlay. The the match was also called for ;. defense.... Rick Upchurh continues to be one of the most exciting Belles came home with a 6-1 darkness. 
Sports
' 
_... ___ 
players in the game. His 75 yard punt return for a touchdown broke defeat. Despite having to forfeit a singles 
i the game open for the Broncos last sunday .... The Cowboys did not For individual scores, Saint and a doubks match the Saint look like champs as they lost to the Rams on Sunday, but one Mary's number one singles player, Mary's tennis team ended Thurs­wonders whether they are just taking the early part of the schedule Cindy Schuster, was defeated by day night by defeating Goshen Beat Michiganeasy, fully expecting to make the playoffs....Jim Zorn continues to Nancy Gyorgyi, 6-1, 6-3. SMC's College. impress as the Seahawk quarterback. He may not be all that number two singles Anne Daniels Maureen O'Brien won in three Rally on tap at 7graceful but he puts points on the scoreboard....The Bears have yet lost in two sets to Anne Baur, both sets over Goshen's number one to be tested by a top caliber club, but they seem to resemble the at 6-1. SMC's number three Nella seed 6-4, 5-7, 6-4. Losing a tough The "Beat Michigan" Pep Rally Vikings and Redskins teams of few years back, they do what they Domenici was beaten . by Karen match in the number two slot with will be held tonight at 7 p.m. in need to win ....How long will Paul Brown keep Bill "Tiger" Johnson Torman, 6-1, 6-0. In the only three scores of 6-2, 6-4 was SMC Ana Stepan Center. Featured guests as head coach if the Bengals continue to flounder? The Bengals sets match of the day, SMC's Cusack. Victories by SMC Carmel will include defensive coordinator have the talent, but....How does Don Shula do it? Don Strock can't number four Karen Smith lost to Maenza and Nella Domenici were Joe Y onto, Jim Browner, Dave be as good as Bob Griese can he? Well, those Dolphins are Becky Hunter, 5-7. 6-4, 6-1. 6-1, 6-1, and 6-0, 6-3, respectively. Huffman, former · Irish quarter­winning, and if Griese comes back with them two or th.ree games Number five singles for SMC,. SMC's number five singles player back Terry Hanratty, and Notre above .500, they'll be a good bet to win the AFC East. Mary Lloyd, was defeated by I,.ynn Mary Beth Hanavan losing 6-7, 6-2, Dame legend Ziggy Czarobski. 









