

byMarkKust Senior Staff :Reporter 
The 
While the fate of the Student Union Record Store proposal hin­ges on a decision next week by the Office of Student Affairs, the position of Fr. John Van Wolv­lear, vice-president for Student Affairs, remains unclear.
Observer 
The proposal--a plan for a student an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's 
record co-op run by the Student Union--was submitted last year to 
Vol. XIII, No. 47 Friday, November 10, 1978 outgoing vice-president for Student Affairs Bro. Just Paczesny and resubmitted at the beginning of this year to Van Wolvlear.
College towns plan recourse Van Wolvlear, who was quoted in last Wednesday's 'Observer as questioning the effectiveness of a 
student-run business, said yester­"there's no doubt about it 
with passage of Proposition, D 
Fate of SU Record Store hinges on future decision 
by Tim Joyce 
Michigan voters approved a pro­
position Tuesday raising the state drinking age from 19 to 21 and some college towns are already planning resolutions for the de­. criminalization of alcohol use, which 
would counteract the new law. 
Proposition D, which was passed 
by a 57 percent majority, with 90 
percent of the vote counted, raises 
the minimum age for purchasing 
and consuming liquor in Michigan 
from 19 to 21. 
According to Rep. Harry Gasp's 
(R-Niles) office in the state capital 
in Lansing, the official tally as of 
yesterday was 1,421,238 in favor of 
the prop.osition with 1,082,454 op­
posed. In Berrien County, which 
includes Niles, the vote was almost 
two to one in favor of the proposi­
tion. 
In East Lansing, site of Michigan 
State University, the vote was more 
that 3 to 1 against the proposition. 
''The general reaction on the 
MSU campus was one of shock, but 
now it's beginning to sink in," 
stated Kim Shanahan, opinion 
editor of the MSU student news­
paper, The State-News. 
''The bar owners are more upset 
than the students are, because for 
them the proposition means less 
business," he continued. "Some 
of the bars may even have to 
close." 
But, according to Shanahan, the 
East Lansing City Council has 
already introduced a resolution that 
calls for the decriminalization of 
alcohol use for those . between the 
ages of 18 and 21. 
"The resolution will call for a 
small fine for those who violate the new law, much like a parking ticket. This resolution would make alcohol-related offenses punishable along the same lines as the fines imposed for marijuana violators 
presently," he said. 
"Naturally, we are all hoping 

that the resolution by the city council is approved. We are also going to urge the state legi;;lature to pass a resolution similar to the one proposed in East Lansing," added Shanahan. 
In Ann Arbor, site of the University of Michigan, efforts are also underway to decriminalize alcohol for those in the 18-21 age group. 
The mayor of Ann Arbor spoke yesterday in favor of the resolution proposed in East Lansing, stating that he'd like to see the same thing in Ann Arbor, because he realizes that students ar~ still going to drink no matter what the law is, stated Barb Zahs, managing editor of the Michigan Dally, the student newspaper of Michigan. 
Students at Michigan are in "absolute opposition" of the new law, according to Zahs. 
''The students right now are pretty upset and already groups are forming all over campus to try to take the matter to court to test its constitutionality," she commented. 
''The passage of the proposition was expected--at first we thought the margin would be three to one in favor of the proposition, but we never expected it to be this close," she continued. 
The bar owners are up in arms about the new measure in Ann Arbor, as they are in the rest of the state. Before the election, some bar owners even went to the point of having voter registration booths in the bar, in hopes that bar patrons would vote against the proposal, Zahs related. 
However, the bar owners say that they can live with the new law ifforced to. "They have said that if necessary, they would change their bars in order to attract an older clientele," Zahs said. 
Reaction to the passing of the proposition was one-sided among bar owners in nearby Niles. 
Ron Heide, owner-manager of the White House in Niles, who said 
day 50 percent of the patrons are under --it (the record store) can be run 21, expressed disappointment that efficiently. I'm completely im­the measure passed. pressed by the Student Union." 
"I hated to see the proposition He added that he was "boggled" pass. Young kids didn't abuse the by the work of the Union, which right to drink at 18 one bit, and handles an annual cash flow of over then to take the right away from one million dollars. them is a bad thing, considering But Van Wolvlear still expressed they didn't abuse the right to drink reservations on the proposal. "I in the first place," Heide com­think there would be problems with mented. running this record store. The 
''There is no logical reason for Student Union is one thing, but this [continued on page 4] would be a business that you have to run, day in and day out, open and close it every day," he said. 
Van Wolvlear allowed that '"'he (Student Union Director Bill Roche) has researched this thing thorough­ly." 
When asked if he has made a final decision yet, Van Wolvlear said "The question here is ... .is it better to have the Student Union run this or is it better to have a whole series of these (Fianner Records) things?" 
The remark was a reference to an earlier comment he made about the "healthiness" of Flanner Records, a privately-owned, student-run re~ cord operation. Van Wolvlear indicated he would rather see this type of "healthy," individually-run enterprise than a large co-op run by Student Union. . 
However, Flanner Rbcords was ordered to cease operations at the end of next semester 'in a letter received last spring by the !propri­etor, George Molitor. The letter was signed by Dean of students James Roemer, then Director of Student Activities Br. John Benesh and Paczesny . 
When asked if this was the case, Van Wolvlear pointed out that he was not "in on that" last year. While he was unclear about whe­ther he would allow Flanner Re­
[ continued on page 5] 


Snoopy [left] and Schroeder will be portrayed once again tonight at 8 p.m. in "You're a Good Man Charlie Brown." For last night's opening night review turn to page 15. [Photo by Bob Gill] 

the observer Friday, November 10. 1978 
r-News Briefs ____........__. 
t===========World 
China sWns hotel pacts 
HONG KONG • China has extended its modernization drive to the tourist industry, signing an estimated S500 million deal with Intercontinental Hotel Corp. to build and operate five or six first-class hotels with a total of 5,000 rooms. Officials of Intercontinental Hotels, a subsidiary of pan American Airways, said the agreement was signed Monday in Peking after ten days of negotiatiosn. · 

J============National 
Steel industry backs Carter 
WASIDNGTON • the steel industry has promised to comply with President Jimmy Carter's wage-price standards, a leading Treasury official said yesterday. The steel industry's support was important to Carter's program because steel price hikes often set the pattern for auto price rises and othe consumer increases. 

Student achieves per_fection 
WALNUT COVE, N.C. ·ted Gentry is in something of a select group of high school students. The last time he took the Scholastic Achievement Test, he made 1600 • a perfect score. "It was something I'd been shooting for for a while," Gentry said of the SAT score. "The goal had been in the back of my mind. To be honest, I enjoy taking tests like that." He describes himself as "haphazard" about studying, but he adds: "I'm grade-oriented; I do like to see those big numbers." His plans today are to be a malpractice lawyer or work on legal appeals. 

Weather 

Partly cloudy and windy today and tomorrow. Highs both days in the mid and upper 60s. Fair tonight with lows in the mid 40s. Southerly winds 15-25 mph today. 


On Campus Today ______ 
friday, november 10, 1978 

10-5 pm book sale, by the friends of the library, library concourse 
4:30pm colloquium, "computer animation and the geometry of surfaces in 3 and 4 spaces," by prof. thomas banchoff, brown u., 226 c.c.m.b. 
5:15pm mass and supper, at the bulla shed 
7,9:15, 

film, "the way we were," eng. aud. $1 
11:30 pm 

8pm play, "you're a good man, charlie brown", $1, washington hall 
8pm basketball, nd vs. russian team, a.c.c. 
saturday, november 11, 1978 soccer, nd vs tennessee

10 a.m. 1:30pm football, nd vs. tennessee, home play, "you're a good man, charlie brown," $1, washington hall 8 pm concert, "foreigner", a.c.c. 
sunday, november 12, 1978 
1 pm 2 pm 
2 pm 4,7,10 pm 
8 pm 
8 pm meeting, cila, library aud., and lounge 

play, "you're a good man, charlie brown", $1, washington hall 
mass, sponsored by the friends of the mentally retarded and l'arche, at moreau seminary 
film, collegiate seminar, eng. aud. 
concert, notre dame chorale-sacred heart church, sponsored by the music dept. 
lecture, a lecture in humor-pat paulsen, comedian, sponsored by the smc student government, o'laugh­lin, $2. 


Board appoints newmember 
Sister M. Basil Anthony O'Flynn, chairman of the Board of Regents of Saint Mary's, has announced the appointment of South Bend busi­nessman Jerry Hammes as a member of the Board. 
Mr. Hammes, whose association with Saint Mary's is of Ion~ 
*The Observer 
Night Editor: Frank Kebe . Asst. Night Editor: H. Dev1tt Layout Staff: Pam Degnan, Mary Pat (basket case) Ellis 
Editorial Layout: Greg Hedges Features Layout: Your LOYAL "Miss Cosmo" (CLM), MR. Sports Layout': ray O'Brien Typists: Kim Convey, Mardi Nevin, Bill Swift, Kim Convey 
Night Controllers: Mary Me Cauley and Tom Powanda 
Day Editor: Maribeth Moran 
Copy  Readers: Phil  Cackley,  
Mike Shields  
Ad  Layout:  Tom  Behney,  

Chris Slatt, Jim McDermott and Condo Photographer: Bob Gill 
The Observer Is published Man­dey through Frlcley except during exem end v.atlon periods. Tl)e Observer Is published by the students of Notre Deme end Selnt Mery's College. Subscriptions mey be purchesed tor UO per y..r ($1 0 per semester) from The Observer, P.O. llox Q, Notre Deme, lndlene 46556. Second clus postea• peld, Notre Deme, lndlene, 46556. 
The Observer Is e member of the Assocleted Prell. All repro­duction rights ere reserved. 
Jl~()()' 131JtlicJ~, 
[)~~ ()()~Z~liS!t 
standing, will serve on the student affairs committee of the Board. He has been a member of the Saint Mary's President's Council and the Saint Mary's Building Committee. He is currently the St. Joseph County chairman of the Samt Mary's Busineses Associates. 
Mr. Hammes is vice-president and director of Marycrest Savings and Loan Association, Kankakee, Ill., and of Romy Hammes, Inc., South Bend. He is a member of the board of directors of the Peoples Bank Marycrest, Kankakee; the St. 
Joseph Band and Trust Company; and the St. Joseph River Bend Development Corporation. He is a partner in the North Village Mall and chairman of the Midwest Chamber Orchestra. 
Jerry Hammes is a past president ofthe South Bend-Mishawaka Area Chamber of Commerce, the Better Business Bureau, the Michiana Public Broadcasting Corporation and the South Bend Economic 
Development Commission.  He is  
currently  treasurer  of the  Better  
Business Bureau.  



MANDATORY MEETING FOR MEMBERS OF 


THEobserver 
ADVERTISING LAYOUT STAFF ON TUESDAY AT 7:00 
hbau flassts 
at htttb Btart Q!4urr4 
5:15 p.m. 9:15 a.m. 10:30 a.m. 12:15 p.m.  Saturday Sunday Sunday Sunday  Rev. Robert Grlfftn, CSC Rev. John Fltzgerald,CSC Rev. Eman McMulllo, CSC Rev. William Toohey, CSC  
7:15 p.m.  Vespers  Rev. Eman McMulllo  

an 
campus
miniStry 




RUN WITH US 
SHOES: 

Adidas, Nike, Brooks, Pumas, Tigers, Etonic 
ALSO: 

Full lines of racquetball and tennis equipment Adidas, Winning ways and Jelenk warm-ups Dolphin, Sport International, 
and Marti Liquori nylon shorts  
HOURS:  1 0-9 daily  
100 Center Mish.  
12·6 Sunday  
255-8522  


Friday, November 10, 1978 the observer 


Pope John Paul II reaffirms ban on marriage 
VATICAN CITY [AP] • Pope John Paul II has reaffirmed the 1 ,5000-year-old ban on marriage for priests in his first pronounce­ment on one of the most controver­sial issues facing the Roman Catho­lic Church. 
"We must retain the sense of our 

The Polish-born pontiff, elected last month as leader of the world's 700 million Roman Catholics, told 1,300 priests and friars represent­ing the clergy of Rome that he will follow the path of the late Pope Paul VI, who resisted -enormous pressure from bishops, priests and 
Priests and pastors in the ·small Eastern-rite Roman Catholic Church and in most non-Catholic Christian churches can marry. 
Pope Paul's encyclical touched off criticism on all continents, with opponents being particularly in the United States and Holland. 

In 1970, Paul VI publicly repri­manded Dutch bishops for trying to reinstate priests who had quit and married. 
Pope Paul VI, who died in August, restated mandatory celi­bacy in a 1967 encyclical at a time when his liberal policies had raised widespread expectations he would revise celibacy rules. 
unique vocation," he said -yester­laymen to lift or at least loosen the day in a speech restating the celibacy ban. religious duties and identity of John Paul II said the uniqueness 

FBI c~ptures porno fugitive 
of the priestly vocation "must be Celibacy is believed to be a main expressed also in our exterior cause for the defection of priests, clothing." which has risen world-wide from "Let us not be ashamed. Yes, ATLANTA [AP] • Mike Thevis, federal agents arrested Thevis on was taken to await a bond hearing. 
priests. 
about 1,000 in 1965 to an annual rate of about 4,000 -1 percent of the world's 400,000 priests. In the United States, it is estimated that more than 8,000 Roman Catholic priests have resigned since 1965. 
New ordinations in recent years have ranged from 8,000 to 10,000 annually, but defections and deaths have been steadily larger for the past decade. 
we are in the world but we are not worldly," the pope said, drawing long applause. 
John Paul ll referred to Pope Paul's pronouncements and to documents on the priesthood by the Ecumenical Council and by a 1971 Synod of Bishops who voted in favor of retaining mandatory celi­bacy. As a bishop, Pope John Paul was among the voters at the Svnod. 
the fugitive who allegedly built an empire of peep shows and X-rated bookstores on murder, arson and extortion, was captured Thursday in a Connecticut bank, the FBI said. 
Hehad been on the FBI's "most wanted" _list since July, after he escaped from a county jail in Indiana and was indicted on federal racketeering charges.f 
James Dunn, FBI speciaL.agent-

Thursday morning in Bloomfield, Conn., along with a Marietta, Ga., woman identified by police as Jeannette Evans. _ 
Thevis was taken fo Hartford, Conn. to await a bond hearing. 
Dunn said authorities had the bank under surveillance because of "a large amount of money coming in and out of an account.'' The FBI said Thevis had been in the area for about a week. 
Deputy Police Chief Anthony Toce said Thevis had tried to withdraw 133,000 in cash from an account he had under the name of Arbie Jonathan Evans. 
Thevis, 46, was not disguised, Dunn said, and neither he nor his companion offered any resistance. Ms. Evans, described as an Atlanta real estate agent, was charged with harboring a fugitive, Dunn said. 
Thevis was serving an eight and 
~e~ber anony~ously gives~~~~~h~M~g~e·~~~W~~~al~~~li~re~~~~~~l~n~H~a~rtf~o~cl~,~C~oo~n~.,~w~h~e~re~T~h~~~~~~~~~[~oo~n~&~u~~~~~~~e~2.~ 
~oney for invest~ents 
by Mary Ann Wissel Staff Reporter 
In 1956, a member of the Advisory Council of the College of Business Administration anony­mously gave $10,000 to a group of students now known as the Notre Dame Investment Fund Group. Today, that amount has grown to $25,103. . 
"The purpose of the donation was to give students the opportun­ity to invest real money in the stock market without risking their own money. For participating students it is a practical learning experi­ence,'' Paul Conway, associate professor of Finance and advisor to the Investment Fund Group, ex­plained. 
For the past ten years, the Finance Club was in charge of the Investment Fund. This year, however, the group is independent of the club, although Conway remains the group's advisor. 
The Investment Fund, although open to all students, consists mostly of finance majors. Around 30 of the 58 group members are students in Conway's Investment course. For these students, parti­cipation in the Fund is required. The other members of the group are mostly Finance Club members. 
Vicki Zimmer and Dave Scobee are the student coordinators of the Fund. Zimmer explained that the Investment Fund consists of stocks selected by past years' greup members. 
"Each year, the stocks in our portfolio are reevaluated. And at the same time, new stocks for evaluation are selected in the major industries," Zimmer said. 
As student coordinators, Scobee and Zimmer are responsible for organizing the 58 members into six groups--each led by a chairman and vice-chairman. 

"We assign the stocks to be researched by each group," Zimmer said. "We instruct the groups on the different research methods, assign the due date, and listen to each person's oral report and recommendation of whether or not to purchase the stock. After that, Dave and I, along with the six committee chairmen, decide which stocks we will purchase." · 
"Next January, all students who participated will receive the results of the decisions we made and why we made them," she added. 
One group chairman, John Hoff, sees his responsibilities as hand­ling communications within his group, answering any questions, and handling problems with evalu­ations. 
''I am researching Tiger Inter­national Inc. stock. I am going to recommend that we do not buy any. 
Based on the objectives of the Investment Fund, it is too risky because of a high operating lever­age due to its capital intensity," Hoff said. 
John Heuvelman, another group chairman,; views his job as one of coordinating the group~s members in the!J-analyses of the stocks. 
"Ttle stocks must be growth stocks with a fairly predictable behavior so that we don't risk any large capital losses should the market drop," Heuvelman stated. 
Last year, under the direction of John Riley, the market price of the portfolio's stocks increased 27.8 percent ($4,706) from May 1977 until May 1978. Meanwhile, the Dow-Jones Industrial Average decreased 6. 7 percent that year. 
"We did phenomenally compared' to the market, especially considering that so many profes­sional stock brokers had trouble," Zimmer noted. 


Council still needs tickets 
Student Tennessee football tickets are still very much needed by the ND-SMC Council for the Retarded. The tickets will be used to allow retarded children and adults from Logan Center to see the game tomorrow. 
ND-SMC Council Co-chairperson Mike Wolohan stated last night, ''Ticket contributions are not coming in at a rate that will enable us to take the kids to the game. We really need a lot more tickets, and Friday will have to be a very big collection day." 

"If anyone at all can let us use their tickets we're askign them to turn it in at the collection points at the dining halls Friday during dinner. A lot of retarded kids are really get psyched for this game, and we don't want to disappoint them," Wolohan added. 
Anyone with questions about dining hall collection points or colled:ion points in each of the dorms should call Mike W olohan at 1371 or Sue McKinney at 4-1-4832. 
Sorin holds show 
Sorin hall will hold its traditional Talent Show tomorrow morning at 11 a.m. on the porch of Sorin. There is no charge for attending and everyone is welcome. 
Paper promotes 2 \ 
Margie Brassil and Lisa Fulks have been promoted to Observer Staff Reporters. Brassil, A Saint Mary's sophomore from Westches­ter, IL, has previously worked as a staff writer. She is also night editor on Tuesday. Fulks, a Saint mary's junior from Coral Gables, FL, has also worked as a staff writer. 






oble.~ 
PIZZA S OTHER GOOD THINGS 
CORNER OF GRAPE ROAD SCLEVELAND 
-----------------~-~---~------~---~-~---­
$1.00 OFF EXPIRES 11/27178 
1 ANY LARGE DEEP DISH SICILIAN PIZZA 
1 wltli £t)tJJ>()II

/ 
I 
I 
I
I 


Friday, November 10. 1978 
4 
the observer 

.----------------------------,
•I 

' Town remembers RockWell 
272-7433 
I
I 

STOCKBRIDGE, Mass. [AP] •• Townspeople who posed for artist Norman Rockwell said yesterday his drawings of Americana illustrated his own life: plain, unassuming, kindly. 
Our specialty: The people of this western Massachusetts town of2,228 awoke yesterday to learn that their friend 
Oven Baked APPLE PANCAKES 
and neighbor had died late Wed­nesday night, at 84, at his homeExtra large, using fresh apples here in the Berkshire Mountains. "I'm very sad," said Marty Salvadore, a 32-year-old insurance
and pure sugar cinnamon glaze 
agent. Salvadore had posed for Rockwell while in grammar school and later as a college student for a 
US 31 (Dixieway) North in Roseland 1966 Peace Corps illustration that 
appeared in Look magazine. 
across from the Holiday Inn . "He was a lot of fun. . . He made you try to understand what 
he was trying tp paint. . . He was more or less an adopted son. The town treasured him like a jewel," Salvadore said. 
In Arlington, VT, where Rock­well lived for 14 years before moving to Stockbridge, resident• paused in their chores to recall the 
L----------------------------J 




~0>a 
popular artist best known for his

~~ ~ c~~ 
cover illustrations of small-town 
life for the Saturday Evening Post. Arlington people, too, said they 
~ -;;) m1n1Stry 
would remember Rockwell, not for his worldwide fame as an illustrator 

· this friday and every friday 
but for his neighborliness. Carl Hess, 72, wiped tears from 
his eyes as he went about his _work 

5:15 mass and supper 

in the damp chill of his garage. decades of Rockwell's works, said 
Hess keeps copies of the artist's Rockwell moved to Massachusetts 
magazine covers in a glass case in 1953 because his second wife, 
next to collections of dusty tires Mary, needed medical attention 
and rusted wheels. 

not available in Vermont. Hess, who used to service Rock­Mary died in 1959, and Rockwell well's car, was depicted in a married Molly Punderson, now an 
Rockwell painting entitled "Free­
82-year-old retired school teacher 

dom of Speech" as standing up at a 
who survives him along with three
New England town meeting. 
sons from his second marriage.
Stockbrid~e Police Chief William 
Rockwell's last published work
J. Obanhem, 54, appeared in 
was an illustration showing a happy
several of Rockwell's illustrations, 
birthday ribbon tied around the
including one of President John 
Liberty Bell on the cover of the July 
Kennedy's inauguration. 
1976 American Artist magazine in
"He didn't like the looks of the 
honor of the American Bicenten­
Secret Service man standing 
nial.
behind President Kennedy," 
Mrs. Rockwell said private
recalled Obanhein, "so he took him 
funeral services will be held at 2
out and put me in. He was just a 
p.m. tomorrow in St. Paul's
regular guy who lived down the 
Episcopal Church in Stockbridge.
street and loved kids..." 
Burial will be in the Stockbridge
David Wood, director of the Old 
Cemetery.
Corner House Museum housing six 


Shah's anti-crime drive furthers Iranian unrest 
TEHRAN, Iran [AP] · Shah 
Mohammad Reza Pahlavi's anti­
corruption drive, aimed at calming 
the popular unrest that has shaken 
his rule, reached into the halls of 
the Iranian Parliament yesterday. 
A deputy was accused of profiteer­
ing by cornering Iran's glass 
market. 
A key opposition leader, mean­
while, was reported headed back to 
Iran, but there appeared little 
likelihood of face-to-face talks with 
the shah to negotiate an end to the 
country's political crisis. 
An uneasy peace prevailed in this 
capital city, center of violent anti­
shah protests last weekend that led 
to the fall of Iran's civilian admini­
stration and the shah's appoint­
ment of a military-led government. 
Troops backed by armored vehicles 
and machine gun-mounted trucks 
guarded government buildings and 
patrolled key locations throughout 
the city. 
Dozens of political figures, includ­ing a former prime minister, have been arrested so far in the anti­corruption campaign. Yesterday, the round-up reached into the lower house of the Iranian Parlia­ment, which lifted the immunity of Deputy Mansur Yasini so he could be prosecuted for alleged industrial profiteering. 
A report by a parliamentary investigation committee charged that Yasini, who owns all three of Iran's glass factories, had caused a seven-fold increase in glass prices to $1.35 per square foot. 
The committee said the politician­industrialist had set up a subsidiary corporation so he could control both production and distribution and arbitrarily jack up prices. 
Former Prime Minister Amir Ab­bas Hoveyda, arrested Wednes­day, had been one of the shah's closest confidants. Military police did not say why Hoveyda was arrested, but reliable sources said he was accused of misuse of power 

'Aieksa Shantich' to sponsor concert 
"Aleksa Shantich," the singing society from Sts. Peter and Paul Serbian Orthodox Church in South Bend, will sponsor a Serbian fol~ concert tomorrow at 7 p.m. The concert will be held in the church social hall, 59520 Keria Trail, in South Bend. 
The program will represent the joint effort of several choirs, inclu­ding "Sloboda" and "Branko Radicevich" both from Chicago, the Frederick Chopin Choir from St. Mary's National Polish Catholic Church in South Bend, "Kosta Manojlovich" from Lackawanna, 
N.Y.. and the host choir from Sts. Peter and Paul. 
The public is invited to participate in folk dancing immediately follow­ing· the concert. 
There will be an admission charge of $2 for the concert and dancing. 
during his term as government head, 1964-77, After naming the military govern­ment, the shah announced he would vigorously prosecute corrup­tion in Iran, one of the demands made by the opposition during months of bloody anti-government rioting. The shah's foes also charged that many persons close to the imperial palace had amassed fortunes, es­pecially during Hoveyda's admini­stration. In a further gesture to the opposition, the shah ordered res­pected legal expert Jamalidden Akhavi to head an investigation into the reputedly vast holdings of 64 of the shah's closest relatives, including his sisters and brothers. Most of the shah's relatives were sent abroad by the shah two months ago. His wife, Empress Farah, and four of his five children remain in Tehran. Crown Price Reza currently is studying at the 
U.S. Air Force Academy. 

Posposition D's passage shocks many 
[continued from page 1] 
the proposition,'' he continued. 
•'The excuse abut the increase in accidents on the highways is not true at all. Sure, accidents have increased in number, but so have the amount of kids in this age group on the road. Percentage­wise, accidents in the 18-21 age group has decreased,'' Heide added. 
Bob Taylor, owner-manager of 
the Heidlegerg Inn echoed Heide's 
comments. "I don't feel the right 
to drink was abused, and I especial­
ly feel it is wrong to take away a 
right which was already given to 
them." 
"The churches are the ones who 
really pushed for the new law. I 
feel that it is wrong for churches to 
get involved in political issues," he 
continued. 
As far as the impact of the proposition is concerned, both bar owners agreed that business will decrease. 
Heide concluded, "The 18-year­olds have acted responsibly since the day they were given the right to drink a few years ago. I'd like to see them give up the right to drink as responsibly as they acted while they were allowed to drink." 
The Michigan legislature had earlier this year raised the drinking age to 19. The law was supposed to go into effect Dec. 3. 

The passage of Proposition D has raised questions on the validity of the previous legislation. The problem stems from discrepencies in the effective dates of the two Jaws. 
The issue of whether Proposition D negates the earlier legislation must be decided, and it is possible that an emergency session ~f the Michigan legislature will be called to decide the issue. 
T----.-----.--------------------~--­
_, 
.. .. 

Friday, November 10,.1978 the observer 



SU Record Store's fate remains undecided 
[continued from page 1] cords to sfay in operation, he observed that "students can run certain (money-making) things as long as it is approved through here." 
Molitor said yesterday that no reason for the order was given in the letter. But he said he was called into Benesh's office prior to receiving the letter. According to to (Bookstore Manager) Br. Conan Molitor, "he (Benesh) indicated to (Moran) yet. I haven't broached it me (during the conference) that it with him yet," he explained. had something to do with interfer­Moran affirmed Van Wolvlear's ing in Bookstore profits." statement: "I haven't talked to 
Van Wolvlear did not say whether him about it." Moran declined to the profits of the bookstore would comment further, except to say that be at issue next week when a he was not even aware of the decision is made on the Student Student Union proposal._ Union proposal. "I haven't talked Van Wolvlear said he was ambiva-

The Notre Dame Chorale will present its annual fall concert in Sacred heart Church on November 12, 1978 at 8:15 p.m. Admission to the concert is free. 
lent about the proposal. "It is in his (Roche's) hands right now. He first of all has to speak fo Jack Schneider," Van Wolvlear said. Schneider, a former president of CBS television, is chairman of the Student Activities Committee of the University Board of Trustees. 
"I haven't been able to get hold of him (Schneider) yet," Roche said yesterday afternoon, "but I really don't think a good case has been made against this thing yet. Ifthey can give me a good reason why they don't want it, I'm willing to say 'OK' and drop it. But no one has been able to do that yet." 
"We are not starting out as the biggest record store this side of New York City," Roche continued. "We are going to start out small and build it.'' 
Roche said that plans for the record store have proceeded, des­pite the lack of approval from the administration. "We've already set aside $10,000 for an operating budget and hope to build from there. We have the money, we have the room, we have potential distributors, we have the people who are willing to work on it and we have the interest. Now all we need is the permission," he explained. 
Roche said that a student-run record business could cover ex­penses and still run a slight profit for reinvestment with a retail album price of $4.99. He said that plans for a record co-op were started last year in order to gived students ''more selection and a better price than the bookstore." 
Bookstore prices • of between six and eight dollars "may not be rock bottom, but they are by no means outrageous," according to a local record marketing representative, who asked not to be named. He· said that, in comparison to other stores, the bookstore's record vol­ume is ''not real big, but very solid." 
He.pointed out that "prices at the bookstore are not as outrageous as people think," citing prices at Scottsdale Mull which are compar­able. He also observed that, while bookstore prices are below the manufacturers list price, the Jist price is "definitely higher than what they expect it to sell for in a retail store." 
PBS's 'The Fight for Food' to focus on world hunger 
"The Fight for Food," a series of feeding the poor. programs to be shown natinwide on Int he south Bend area, the the Public Broadcasting System, is programs will appear on Channel scheduled for next week, beginning 34 (PBS). The schedule is as Sunday evening. follows, with all times according to 
The . series focuses on the prob­Ea&tern Standard Time: lem of world hunger and explores a 
Sunday, Nov. 12-"The Fight for number of promising strategies for Food, Part I" (8 p.m.
increasing food production, impro­Mnday, Nov. 13-"The Fight for ving distribution of available food, Food, Part II" (8 p.m.)
alleviating food shortages, and Tuesday, Nov. 14 " Film ­promoting development. 
"Distant Thunder" (9 p.m.)
Topics include scientific research Thursday, Nov. 16 --Food Issues and t<!chnology, trade and aid, Forum (9 p.m.)
agribusiness, food security, and 



,-------------------------------------------,: 
4R€at roR C~RI:,stmas Gifts 
lf ~  1I VISit OUR BOO~ OepaRtfT:l€nt! ! . ~ I  f !: t:  
t  
t  

t 
I ,

t 
1

t ChllbRen's Books O€W BOxeb S€ts 
t 

the observer FridayI November 10, 1978 

A, Complete~VC Stereo System for $488.00 
(as little as $24.00 a month*) 
The Value Of The Total System Is What To Look For 
If you're looking for a new stereo system for under $500.00, don't make the mistake of spending too much or too little on one part of the system. Try to match the power of the receiver to the speakers; plus we feel it's better to include a single-play auto-return turntable, rather than a rec­ord changer. The single play table will treat your records better and, in most cases, allow) you to choose a better phono cartridge. And don't overlook the value of a good cartridge; it's the source of ever)'thing you'll hear on your records. We recommend getting as good a one as you can afford; it will be well worth it. Now, listen to all the components together to see if it's the right system for you. 

Careful Ustening Produces A Perfect .Match 
If you want to save some time selecting your system, we have what we think is an absolutely super stereo system for $488.00. We spend hours comparing and listening to these JVC compo­nents before assembling them as a complete system. We think it more than satisfies the guide­lines you should look f<;>r in this price range~ You'll get a powerful JVC JRS_61 AM/FM stereo re­ceiver (18 watts per channel, 20 to 20 Hz at 0.5% THO), plus two computer designed, highly­efficient JVC SK500 speakers, and an outstanding JVC JLA 20 single-play auto-return turntable, complete with an audiophile quality Grado 11 E phono cartridge. Please come in to listen to it; compare it, if you like; we think you'll find it's an incredible stereo system at a price you can afford. Please, hear it today! 
*Total cash price (including sales tax) $507.52. Total down payment $27.52, total deferred payment price $605.52. Annual per· · centage rate 18.16%, 24 monthly payments of $24.00 each. 


./

SERVING MICHIGAN &INDIANA
JVC SOUTH BEND: 52578 US 31 NORTH I 277-1515 BENTON HARBOR: 1161 E. NAPIER I 925-8831 
·--------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Friday, November 10, 197~ the observer 
7 




Beaux Arts Ball 'gets small' 
by Karen Gerharl teach and propagate art rather than The end of this (project) is always promote talent and reputations. celebrated by the wildest torchlight Students learned by a system of demonstration, masquerade, mob,"Let's Get Small" is the theme apprenticeship in an intensely procession or whatever it may be for tonight's Beaux Arts Ball which comptetitive atmosphere. called. Everyone is in costume--or wiii begin at 9 p.m. in the The Beaux Arts Ball began as a out of it--and it must certainly beArchitecture Building. 

celebration following the most dif­regarded with yearly horro by theThe annual masquerade party, ficult design problem of the term-­better population of the long­sponsored by the architecture the Concours Rougevin. For this suffering Latin Quarter.''
department, is a tradition not only project, the students were confined Everyone is invited to attendat Notre Dame but a colleges of for a week in a large room with tiny tonight's festivities and, dressed as
architecture throughout the 
alcoves. something which is less than threecountry. 
A professor from the academy inches in length, carry on a longThe Beaux Arts Ball developed described the ensuing madness tradition of architecture studentsas a result of academic pressure at upon completion of the project: everywhere.
the Ecole Des Beaux Arts de Paris. The academy was founded in 1648 under the reign of Louis XIV and 
combined schools of painting, Take-A -Prof-to-Lunch 
sculpture and architecture. The program was designed to 
'feeds' 32 professors
Carter sides In the 14 days the Take-A­teaching assistants or any other Professor-to-Lunch program has university officials to lunch. Hewith Egypt been in existence, 32 professors added that off-campus students have eaten lunch in the dining may use the co-ex tickets to take ain dispute halls. professor to lunch as long as they do not use the tickets themselves to 
W ASIDNGTON (AP] • President Bruce Boiven, student govern­get a free lunch.
Jimmy Carter, coming down on ment co-ex commissioner, reported 
Egypt's side of a dispute with yesterday that the program has According to Renee Leuchten, a Israel, said yesterday a peace picked up momentum and all the 25 student working on the program treaty between the two countries tickets allocated for the second with Campus Ministry, the pro­should be linked directly to future week were gone by yesterday gram is such a success thus far it negotiations for an overall Mideast morning. looks as though the administration 
settlement. Boiven said that, in addition to may accept the program on a But Carter, speaking at a news professors, students may take permanent basis. 
conference in Kansas City, Mo., stressed that the ultimate decision is up to Egypt and Israel. 
Israeli negotiators on Wednesday told Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance they want the link, in the treaty's preamble, deleted. 
But Carter said present language struck him "as adequate." 
The dispute has snagged progress toward completing the negotiations and wrapping up the agreement. Vance planned to meet later in the day with top Egyptian negotiators. 
Carter said there had never been any doubt in the mind of himself, Israeli Prime Minister Menachem Begin and Egyptian President An­war Sadat that a principal objective of the peace process is a compre­hensive settlement. 
Egypt and Israel, the president said, agreed at Camp David in Septmeber to deal with "a solu­
tion" for the West Bank of the Jordan River and the Gaza Strip as well as peace between them. 
Present language in the proposed treaty, he said, serves to carry out that commitment. 
Carter quickly added, however, that he was not "trying to impose my wiii" on the two sides. 
Meanwhile, George Sherman, spokesman for the peace talks, said the negotiators intended to "press ahead." 
There have been reports from Egypt that Sadat was considering a suspension. 
Egypt's Acting Foreign Minister 
Boutrous Uhait ano .rits i:teptity, 
Osama AI-Baz, were understood to 
be carrying instructions from Sadat 
that the treaty nearing completion 
must state clearly that the immedi­
ate, next goal is an overall Mideast 
settlement. 
Israel is committed to dealing with 
the Palestinian issue in the next 
round of negotiations. But Defense 
Minister Ezer W eizman, newly 
returned from Jerusalem, and Fo­
reil!n Minister Moshe Daya" in­
formed Vance on Wednesday that 
hardliners in their government 
want to delete a treaty provision 
linking the two sets of negotiations. 
'One Earth' to sell goods 

The International Student Or­ganization wiii sponsor One Earth Marketplace, a slae,of goods from around the world, next Monday through Friday from 11:30 a.m. to 5 
p.m. in the La Fortune Rathskellar. 
The event will introduce Notre Dame and Saint Mary's student sto the crafts from foreign students' countries. 
The sale features nativity sets from Bethlehem, jewelry from Greece, Spain, Italy and Morocco, clothes from South America, and handmade Christmas ornaments. 



WHY STARVE 
~ 
COG ME 
COIIMt,.oao•••uo~IIOIOl• 
$00... 0UII.OIIOUIIIOOOI.<tC01oDII 

LNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, BERKELEY CARNEGIE-MEU.ON UNIVERSITY LNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY CORNELL UNIVERSITY rnRTMOUTH COLLEGE 1-ARVARD UNIVERSITY 1\N\SSACHUSETTES INSTITUTE OF TECH. lNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA S"ANFORD UNIVERSITY 
MINORITY FELLOWSHIPS FOR GRADUATE STUDY IN MANAGEMENT 
You are invited to discuss opportuni­ties for graduate study in managerrent at the ten cbove-listed universities with Mr. John Brovvn, a representative of COGME on Monday, Noverrber 13, from 9 :00 AM unti I 4 :30 PM AT THE Placerrent 9.Jreau, in the Adrrinistration Building. 
Rlr further inforrl"ation, please oontact the Place­rrent Offire. 
/ 

TO LOSE WEIGHT••• 
·-._., 

WHEN YOU / 
CAN EAT TO 

LOSE WEIGHT? 
Most diets take away food but not hunger. ~ Today's Weight Watchers® Program has a better and more satisfying way to lose weight. 
We've developed a nutritionally-balanced plan that lets you eat cheeseburgers, potatoes, tortillas, bagels, ham and egg and more-within limits-and still learn to lose weight. 
The Weight Watchers Program is created and supervised by our world reno~ned Medical Director and expert nutritionists. 
We have over six million hours of classroom experience worldwide and thousands of trained lecturers to help you practice what we teach. 
For a diet that's not from hunger, join a con­venient Weight Watchers meeting today. 
losing weight neveWEIGHJ tasted so good. ~-..-HERS phone YY~'­
24 ~~~~oso The Authority. ~YOU'RE THIS CLOSE TO LOSING WEIGHT. 

. ' • Nowcomes Millertime. @1978 Miller Brewing Co., Milwaukee, Wis.  <•.••.,," . .: . ~  

the observer 
-.'· v L. • • -~-···· OJ J. ',. 

:opinion~~~~~~==~~==~~~~~~~~~~====

-,KThe Observer 
In Response to Plain Talk 

~n independent newspaper serving Box Q the notre d~me and saint mary's Notre Dame community Ind. 46556 
The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the ~dministration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters are the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
EDITORIAL BOARD Tony Pace Editor-in-Chief Steve Odland Managing Editor John Calcutt Executive Editor Barb Langhenry Executive Editor Rosemary Mills Editorial Editor Phil (ackley Cor~ Editor Jean Powley St. Mary's Editor Ann Gales News Editor Mike Lewis News Editor Diane Wilson News Editor Ray O'BriPf'l Sports Editor Doug Christian 
Photo Editor 
Mardi Nevin Production ManagerJohn Tucker 
Business Manager:Bob Rudy Advertising Manager . 
Friday, November 10, 1978 
P.O.Box Q 
At last glance, it costs theND Security average student over $5000 per year for the "privilege" of attend-Dear Editor: ing this University. Surely some of this money can be spared to When is this University going to improve safety conditions on our start looking out for the well-being campus. Come on, Administration, of its students? get your act together. How can you 
The ineptness of our Security expect us to feel safe with a system is becoming quickly and Security patrol that cannot even tell painfully obvious. In the past year one dorm frotn the other? Revise an arsonist-sniper, a rapist, plus the present system now and send numerous other vandals and unde-the clowns back to t!Ie circus. 
sirables have managed to find their way onto our "secure" campus and Name Wltheld then escape, in most cases, unde-O'Sh hn tected. But even though our 8~ essy women are being attacked and our Art buildings are burning down, Secur­ity had indeed made great strides Dear Editor: 
in preventing the most dreaded of The entrance to O'Shaughnessy all crimes: illegal parking. provides an attractive setting for 
Our illustrious Administration, the statues placed there. Though at best, lends a deaf ear. They too late, I would like to suggest a preoccupy themselves with such backdrop for Jesus and the Samar­life-and-death matters as parietal itan Woman that is more dramatic violations, food fights, and the than the classroom windows of consumption of alcohol at (heaven O'Shaughnessy. I'm referring to forbid) football games while our the cross-roads between Hayes-pleas for increased campus light-Healy and Nieuwland. The conver­ing, ad_ditional guard-houses, and sation depicted between Jesus and more thorough Security training the Samaritan Woman symbolizes are rejected or ignored. Who sets the purpose of the cross-roads 
~===============joseph des jardins
The Tuesday, October 31 edition question fails to address the issue unregulated, capitalist inarket of the Observer contained an in the same way ;&s the questions in system can procide for energy advertisement so offensive as to the third paragraph ·of this adver-demand. Oil the face of it, this is prompt this, my first ever, "Letter tisement fail to address the issue. obviously false. Socialist, com­to the Editor." I am referring to To ask if a windmill could power a munist and even totalitarian the "Plain Talk #2" ad which was hospital ("your hospital"!) or if systems all over the world are placed by Armco. Permit me to steel could be produced with a. meeting consumer needs. This, of respond.to this advertisement. mirror, is obviously irrelevant to course, brings us to . perhaps the· 
First, I would like to comment on the soft-path/hard-path contro-most important assumption of the some general points. I strongly versy. A careful and fair reading of advertisement: that an increasing object to the threatening and the article from which this distinc-· consumer demand should deter­insulting attitude expressed in this tion is taken (Amory Lovins, mine energy requirements. This is ad~ The implication is clear: reject "Energy Strategy: The Road Not an assumption which conserva­energy conservation or lose jobs. · Taken," Foreign Affairs, Oct. tionists would simply reject. To Even If the connection between and 1976), shows that "individual" "con~rve" is to demand less (or at "energy intensive" system and energy systems certainly are not least · to increase demand at a jobs were granted, and I shall recommended for hospitals and declining rate); conservationists argue that it should not be, the steel mills. De-centralized energy . can argue that consumer need, not attitude with which this point is systems obviously do not imply ' demand, should determine energy presented is insulting, individual, single-source energy policy. A distinction between irresponsible, and outrageous. systems for major industries. On needs and wants apparently never Although Armco encourages us to the other hand, combinations of enters Armco's thinking and as a "think things through and make alternative energy sources and result, a continued rate of expan­rational trade-offs," their attitude · individual sources for smaller con-sion of the industry (and a con­is anything but "rational." Refer­suming units are argued for _i_n tinually increasing rate . of con­ring to their '(unspecified) Lovins' article but are ignored by sumption of non-renewable opposition with such ad hominems Armco's advertisement. resources) is an unquestioned-yet as "zealots," "a curious combi­Point number four: "sun, wind, highly questionable-assumptiop.. nation of social reformers, wilder-· geothermal and tidal action" are Point number six: "Our real ness fanatics and modern-day "exotic energy sources" likely to energy crisis is a crisis of common mystics," "Their love of exotic be turned off when "a few big sense." This statement is not only energy sources,'~ "IJ)adness," and projects get underway." While misleading, it is also dangerous. It "idealogical crusades" hardly con­these energy sources are new and is misleading because it implies tribute to rational discussion. I innovative, the development and that there is no energy crisis and suggest that if Armco honestly · utilization of these sources may that we need not be concerned with seeks a rational dialogue, then they well provide many ofthe jobs which conservation and alternative ought to have begun with their own Armco insists will be lost by the energy sources. Even if we grant 
. advertisement. Finally, I find soft-path. New jobs at all levels of the existence of large reserves of threatening college students with a employment, from research and gas, oil and coal, we must also los;; of jobs, whether implicitly ot design engineers to laborers, recognize that these reserves are explicitly, while perhaps an effi­would be produced by the imple-not infinite. Estimates of enough cient advertising ploy, totally mentation ofthe soft-path. Further gas, oil and coal for fifty, one inappropriate in a student publi-as Lovins argues, much of the hundred, even two hundred years ­cation. Let us now examine some technology needed for the soft-path estimates often made at present of Armco's specific points. is presently available. Next, to say rates of demand and not at an Point number one: more power that these new sources may be increasing rate of demand which is is necessary to create more jobs. turned off when ''a few big projects encouraged by Armco -demon­Armco certainly presents no get underWay,'' is simply to miss strate a particularly narrow concern reasons to support this assumption. the point of the soft-path argu-for, and understanding of, our On the contrary, given a highly ment. Since the soft-path empha-society. While most of us will be mechanized and automated sizes de-centralization, it is no spared the grief of a "real energy society, it may well be the case that surprise and certainly no criticism. crisis" in one hundred years, our less energy consumption will mean . to find the soft-path people children and our children's more jobs. opposing "a few big systems." children will not. The energy crisis Point number two: the ''alter-Finally, my housemate of Dutch exists now, perhaps not as a threat native" to "harnessing plenty of descent assures me that windmills· that our energy supply will be energy" is "human drudgery." are anything but "exotic." exhausted tomorrow, but as an Again, we are given no evidence to Point number five: the "market increasing depletion of unrenew­support this claim. On the con­system" (at least a large conglo-able resources and, therefore, as a trary, it might be argued that living merate like Armco had the good threat to our children. This in a less energy-intensive society taste not to call it the ''free market statement is dangerous in that if would require more creativity, system") is the "only approach the implications of it are widely ingenuity, and imagination. that can deliver as much of each accepted, the situation can only be Drudgery, we might say, is in the kind of fuel as people choose to aggravated and the time when we eye of the beholder and many of us buy." Taken literally, this is do run out of these resources will just might find our present energy­obviously true -a market is be more close at hand. intensive system full of drudgery. required to deliver to consumers Editors Note: The Observer has Point number three: the "soft­what they want to buy. But when evaluated these ads and found they 
there priorities? It is time that better than a fountain that regur-· path" cannot meet our energy conjoined in the ad with a criticism do not offer a fair presentation of Notre Dame stopped policing its gitates on every passer-by. needs. My initial reaction is to ask of "our government", the impli-the problem. These ads will no own and started protecting its own. • Jim Jordan "Why not?" but such a rhetorical cation of this claim is that only an · longer be accepted for publlcation. 
seriously .folks ====::::=::::=::::=::::=::::=::::=:::::::::::::::=::::=::::=::::=::::=::::=::::=::::=:::: 
~......,..........~~.......~~.......~..,... ..... _.........~....................,........1 To Have or Have Not \

i DOONESBURY by Garry Trudeau i :::::;:;;j;;==============;::::::::;;;;;art buchwald i ~ 
The meanest "They're living over their heads them. \ TUf 'T I oav'T6ET (7H/5/5 MR. r 
thwg about inflation is that it is to keep up with the Joneses. The "The post-World War ll HAVES ~ mr'S ISN IT. I'M ARe-f»(e. IIJSElJ J 
making so many HAVES and ironic part of it is that the Joneses decided that because they were r HAPPENING.. SPONSI&E 70 8E IllS ~ 
HAVE NOTS. How does one are living over their heads to keep originally HAVE NOTS, their child-l = CONSIJMER.. 77WISIA10f?!) J 
distinguish between a HAVE and a ahead of these people, and there-ren would lack nothing. So the kids ~ \ 1-= i 
HAVE NOT? It's done by a federal fore we had to put the Joneses in were raised as first generation \~. ~ 
bureau in Washington, which the HAVE NOT pile as well." HAVES, and didn't know what it 
sends you a registered letter when "The Joneses are also HAVE was like to do without: It ruined a 
your standard of living falls below NOTS?" I said shocked. lot of them, and I've heard many ~ r 
that of everyone else around you. "That is correct. When you get HAVE parents say that ifthey had ~ J 
If you are officially designated a into double-digit inflation you'd be to do it all over again they would i }
HAVE NOT you are eligible for all surprised how fast HAVES become raise their children as HAVE r J 
sorts of government benefits, HAVE NOTS. NOTS." J ' 
though your credit rating in the "This fellow here had all his "Apparently, from your HAVE ~ r 
private sector is marked "dead-money invested in the stock mar-NOT pile of folders many of them i J 
beat." ket. In one month he became a will soon have the opportunity." r ~ ~ 
I went to the Bureau of Haves HAVE NOT--and so, by the way, The official said, "The problem J i 
and Have Nots to talk to an official did his broker." is that a lot of HAVES could remain ~ i 
who was keeping score. "How long has your bureau been HAVES if they just weren't so r 
He was at his desk, with a large in existence?" worried about what other HAVES r 1 I ONlY l/513 I'M AN ~XCJIAN&E 50 fAIHY AM I (1£'5 REAlLY J 
stack of files, stamping HAVE of "It started during the Roosevelt think about how they live." f 7HE Be5T f'Rl)-5TlJI)ENT NOOJ! 5UR/i!{)I/N[)E[) gy A 6/?EAT6IJY. i 
HAVE NOT on the top of each era when a majority of the people "Do you find many HAVE NOTS l at:r. I N~VER RIGHT HERE AT TINY, F1JNTING HE'S JlJ5TA ~ 
folder. were HAVE NOTS, and the becoming HAVES?" MISC4LQJI.ATC GEa<6i37rJWN! ORIENTALS? o LJT'Tl/3 SHY.) t
1 0
"This must be tough work. It HAVES could be counted on your "All the time. I would say more ~ OOSA6E5.. o \ 1 ° \ l 
can't be much fun making aHAVE fingers. Then World War ll came, than SO percent of the children of r • . ~ 
into a HAVE NOT." and the HAVE NOTS were deter-HAVE NOTS in this country even-f ~ 
"I don't make them into HAVE mined to come back from the tually wind up as HAVES." l 
NOTS. Inflation does that. For armed forces and become HAVES. ''What do you do with all the ~~ ~ 
example, look at this lfile. This ·They did, by going to school and folders after you mark them?" 
family makes $18,000 a year; they working their tails off. Many "We tally them and send the 
have a small house and a car. A moved to the suburbs where they figures out to every politician in the ~ ~ 
few years ago there was no thought they had found The Ameri--country. At the moment the pols ~ \ 
question that they belonged to the can Dream. But although they are still aiming all their rhetoric at 
1
HAVES in this country. But now were HAVES in other people's the HAVES--but if inflation keeps [ 
they must be considered part of the eyes, in their hearts they were making many more HAVE NOTS, l ~ 
HAVE NOTS. They're just not HAVE NOTS, because they were you'll be surprised how fast the \ r 
making it any more." always afraid someone would take politicians change their tune." [ ~ "But why?" I asked. everything they had away from [c] 1978, Los Angeles Times Syndlcate'----.-..-...-.._...__._..._.._.._._____--:--1 


Letters to a Lonely God 
That the Lamb's Blood Has Washed 


I just came from a meeting, off-campus, with some of the dearest people that the Lamb's blood has washed, and they talked so beautifully of Christian service that their words sounded like the lyrics of hymns. Yet, listening to them, I needed to run away as though from strangers who owned a God who could not con,fort me, whose Eucharist would ~~~"t> me hungry. I could not have felt less at nume with my friends' God if they had professed a faith in Buddha. The fault is not their fault, but mine, because I have listened so often to Irish washerwomen's tales. I still burn candles to the Sacred Heart of Jesus. I believe in sacramental magic more than I practice social justice. A priest once told me about an old sailor who died in the grace of Christ, after a life of"great sinfulness and neglect of his Catholic faith. 
The priest said that after he had absolved and anointed the sailor and given him the Holy Viatacum, he asked the old sinner why he thought God had given him the blessings of a happy death. The dying penitent showed the priest five prayer beads that had once been part of a rosary. In spite of all his infidelities to religion, the sailor said, he had always been faithful in ">aying Hall Marys on his prayer beads, from the beginning when the rosary was complete, until now when only five beads were left. He had been faithful to Our Lady with his Aves, he said; now, as he lay dying, Our Lady was faithful to her sinner 
in the hour of his death. The priest's story impressed me as a young man more than the accounts of Albert Schweitzer with his lepers, possibly because my Protestant grandmother had a Methodist version of the same story. A second mate from Martha's Vineyard, hard-drinking and profane, had died after publicly accepting Jesus as his personal savior. Salvation came as God's gift, my grandmother thought, because the Vine­yarder, in the course of a naughty lifetime, persisted in reading the New Testament until, after many years, all that was left were some pages from the Book of Acts. 
I grew up on the story of Jesus, the Goocl Shepherd, leaving the ninety and nine of his flock, to go searching for the lost little lamb; of Jesus, the friend of Galileans, quieting the tempest, tossing out lifelines, so that frightened fishermen could come safely home to snug harbors; of Jesus, whom soldiers trusted, from the Roman legionnaires to G.I. Joe, making believers out of atheists in their foxholes. After I was ordained, I wanted my own story to tell of death-bed conversions. Try hard as I could to establish myself among the shock troop~ of salvation, nothing much ever happened. Finally, one night in New York, I got a call to go to a cheap hotel in Times Square. 
"There's a broad upstairs," the desk clerk said. "She's been around, you know 
Reverend Robert Griffin 
what I mean?" He rolled his eyes as 
though to suggest what he meant by being 
around. "I figure we do you a favor by 
letting you play Jesus, and you do us a 
favor by getting her into a hospital in case 
she croaks." 
"Did she ask for a priest?" I said, 
wondering how I could help the irritating 
little creep lose his job. 
"She didn't ask for nothin' ," he said, "but if she dies here, the police come; and it's a mess." He explained how he wanted him and me to take her over to St. Clare's Hospital in a cab. "The management will express its gratitude by making a contribu­tion to the church." Then he added, "I'm a Catholic," which seemed to imply he knew the mercenary motives by which pastors operate. 
Upstairs, a man opened the door when I knocked. An old woman was lying in bed. When she saw me, she said: "Tell him we gave at the office." Then, as though she was afraid he would blow the message, she said in a louder voice: "We already gave at the office. Besides, anyway, we're Jewish. A person is entitled to a dergyman of their choice." 
I said: "I heard you were sick. Is there anyting I can do?" "I already told you," she said, "we're Jewish. Thank you for coming." 
I said: "If I could be of help, please tell me. Could I get you a rabbi?' 
"IT's of no consequence," she said grandly, in the way, stabbing at class, that New Yorkers have when they've watched too much television. She said to the man, "Tell him to get out." 
·He said: "We don't need you." 
The woman said: "We're Jewish. We 
gave at the office. A person is entitled to a 
clergyman of their choice. Who called you 
anyway?" 
"It's of no consequence," I said, convinced I could expect no death-bed conversion in that room that night. "Why should there be?" I thought to myself; "She isn't dying; anyway, she gave at the office." 
On my way downstairs, I thought: "The desk clerk is Catholic, but I bet he doesn't work at it. I'll give him a chance to save his soul. Clutching at my one chance for greatness, I said to him: "Would you like to buy some chances in the parish raffle?" 
He didn't buy the chances. I'm still waiting, after nearly twenty-five years, to make my first death-bed conversion. I also· didn't make it as Albert Schweitzer. I'm considered a dreamer by some of the sweetest Christians that the Lamb's blood has washed; they invite me to make myself busy being God's hands in binding up wounds. Instead, I keep my hands busy fingering the beads of a broken rosary. Sometimes at night I read tattered pages from the Book of Acts. 
....... 
':V.,..q. 
. ' 
,,,.. 
"The Good Doctor"; November 12, 3 pm. Edward Asner, Richard Chamberlain, Mar:oha Mason, and Lee Grant star in playwright Neil Simon's comedic tribute to Anton Chekhov. 
"Global Paper--The Fight for Food"; November 12, 8 pm. Host Julian Bond, a Georgia state senator, along with Senators George McGovern and Robert Dole, Secre­tary of Agriculture Bob Bergland, nutri­tionist Dr. Jean Mayer, and Canadian Secretary of Agriculture Eugene Whalen discuss the world's chronically undernour­ished--the 500 million people in Latin America, Asia, and Africa in the first of a three-part series. 
"Global Paper"; November 13, 8 pm. The second part of this series on the world food problem draws the connection between the people of the United States and the hungry in the rest of the world. 
"Distant Thunder"; November 14, 9 pm. If you didn't see this on campus, park yourself in front of the tube for a couple of hours. The film show~ a Bengali village and how its food supply is affected by World War II. 
"Global Paper"; November 16, 9 pm. The conclusion of this three-part special report on the world food problem is a debate and forum, with special emphasis on the ways 
U.S. policies affect the worldwide "fight for food." 
Veaetable Baddlell; This week--NOvember 10, 11, Streamwinner, a jazz-rock fusion band; November 13, 14, Performance a movie with Mid: Jagger, supposedly an underground classic; 9:30 show time: November IS, Musica Orbis, another jazz-rock fusion band; November 16, 17, 18, Duke Tumatoe and tqe All-Star Frogs, the Duke returu to South Bend! 
•
'Ole w-IB Wldte or Sealed 1a a M • •••; November 16, 17, 18. 8 pm. South Bend CIVic Theater. 

"Conversation with President Carter"; November 13, 9 pm. Bill Moyer conducts an exclusive interview with President Jimmy Carter and focuses on his adminis­tration, now two years into his term. 
Timothy Leary; November 13. 7:30 pm. Washington Hall. "From Inner ~pace Outer Space: The Creation of the J1uture.' 
,Henry Eclwanla; November 14. 7 Library Auditorium and Lounge. Star Making Machine-Masterin 
.Media." 

ORaWJnGS BY patRICk]. 
Louise Fletc~r. ~cellent character
==============:::11 portrayals by the entire cast. Sl admission. 
Thurber II; November 15. 8 pm. Washington Hall. William Windom re­turns to du Lac with his enormously successful and excellently done portrayal of humorist James Thurber. 


ffiOVI€S 

The Way We Were; November 10, 7,9,11 pm. Engineering Auditorium. Starring Barbara Streisand, Robert Redford. A Jove story that spans 25 years, from pre-World war II to the mid-1950's, with a backdrop of political activism and repression. If you're a Streisand and/or Redford freak, don't miss it. Otherwise, an average show. 
'fhe Seventh Seal; November 12, 4,7,10 pm. Engineering Auditorium. Advertised as a "Collegiate Seminar Film," this one probably has all kinds of unversalities and deep symbols. Who knows, it may even be a good movie. Admission free. Easy Rider; November 14, 7,9,11 pm. Engineering Auditorium. Starring Peter Fonda. Fonda's only real claim to fame (besides a talented father and sister), he and a chum spend· their time on motor­cycles trying to find themselves, America, or something. $1 admission. 
Carnal Knowledge; November 15. 7,9,11 pm. Engineering Auditorium. Starring Ann-Margaret. I was too young to see this film when it originally appeared, but I do remember it raised a ruckus, at least in my house. $1 admission. 
The Last Detail; November 16. 7, 9, 11 pm. Engineering Auditorium. Starring Jack NictMison. As close as you can get to ~ing there (the Navy), Nicholson portrays Billy Budd, a seaman's seaman. Everyone involved in the film's making received critical praise, but it didn't fare so well at the box office. Sl admission. 
One F1ew Over the Cuckoo's Nest; Novem­ber 17, 18. 7, 9:15, 11:30 pm. Engineering Auditorium. Starring Jack Nicholson, 

umance 


Foreigner; November II, 8 pm. ACC. If you don't particularly care for your ear­drums or your reputation in musical taste, then this one is a must. Hard-driving rack and roll with back-up by Ambrosia. Tickets are $8.50 and $7.50. 
You're a Good Man, Charlie Brown; November 10, II, 12. 8pm. Washington Hall. The NO Student Players keep you laughing as the Peanuts gang invades Washington Hall for a weekend of perfc­mances. 
Sorin Talent Show; November II. 8 pm. On the porch. Who knows what evil lurks in the hearts of men? I certainly don't, but the Sorinites may. If you plan to stay for the whole thing, you better bring a winter coat, a blanket, a friend, and a half-pint of Jack Daniels to keep warm. 
Eugene Roussiau Saxophone Quartet; November IS. 8:15pm. Library Auditor­ium and L9unge. 
Notre Dame Chorale; November 12. 8:15 pm. Sacred Heart Church. 


The WUd' ~se; Boiler Hous~ Flix I. Starring Richard Burton, Roger Moore, Richard Harris, Hardy Kruger, Steward Granger. A war picture, with Burton, Moore, Harris, and Kruger portraying Green Beret-type soldiers of fortune. 
... 
Magic; Scottsdale Mall. Starring Anthony Hopkins, Ann-Margaret, Burgess ¥ere­di,th, Ed Lauter. The book terrified me;. the movie is supposed to be as good, if not better. William Goldman, who wrote the book, wrote.the screenplay. 
Midnight Express; Forum I. Starring Brad • 
Davis, Irene Miracle. No matter how highly Rona Barrett and Gene Sh'alit may praise it, Express doesn't cut it. Based on Billy Hayes' five-year ordeal in Turkish prisons for smuggling hash, the story Alan 
Parker weaves concentrates on the vilence of the prison with the hope that the violence will portray Hayes' suffering and frustration.• I said last week that I would have a full review this week, but the death of a good friend's father prevented me from gettina to it. 
12 the observer Friday, November 10, 1978 

The Irish Extra  
Majors makes third trip to Notre Dame by Craig Chval South Bend that Majors mentions. Sports Writer Little over two years ago, Major brought his Pitt Panthers into Notre Dame Some men take great pleasure in Stadium, seeking a national champion­rebuilding old automobiles; others en­ship. joy remodeling houses from the ground Tony Dorsett and company disman­up. tled the Irish 31-10, and never looked Johnny Majors has a lot in common back, compiling a 12-0 slate en route to with these kind of men. Only instead of their national crown. tinkering with cars or pounding away at But in December, 1976, the Vols hadwalls, he reconstructs college football just complete a 6-5 season, and there teams. were rumblings that head coach BillAfter highly successful tenures at Battle, despite a 59-22-2 record in sevenIowa State and Pittsburgh, Majors is years at Tennessee, was on the hot seat.back at his alma mater, the University Those rumblings turned out to beof Tennessee, trying to do the same more than just idle chatter, and Majorsthing as a coach that he did as an was asked to return to his alma mater as All-America tailback---return the Vols head coach. Although Pitt had yet to to the nation's elite. play its final game, a New Year's DayIn his first season back at Tennessee, date with Georgia in the Sugar Bowl, he Majors coached the Volunteers to a 4-7 agreed to take the job.record. Going into tomorrow's game And though there was considerable with the Irish, Tennessee is 2-4-1, but a second-guessing surrounding the man­win over Notre Dame may be just what ner in which the coaching was handled, the doctor ordered for the Vols' rebuild­lame-duck head coach Majors and the ing program. Panthers humbled Georgia 27-3 to claim Majors is well aware of the importance their number one ranking. of his squad's trip to South Bend. "This The Tennessee athletic department ifgame matches two teams with-great is betting that Majors can duplicate hisfootball traditions," says Majors. "As performance at Pittsburhgh. In 1973,far as this being a factor in the game, I his first year at the Panthers' helm, hethink both teams should play with pride. posted a 6-5-1 record with the remnants''I have taken two teams to South of a 1-10 1972 team. The followingBend to play Notre Dame. This Notre season, Pitt was 7-4, which preceded anDame team has a lot of ability and the 8-4 campaign in 1975 that included aIrish always play with enthusiasm and 34-20 upset win over Notre Dame.intensity before their home crowd. It should be a thrill for any young man to Majors and Notre Dame head coach go there and play against them." Dan Devine have locked horns on five If there is anything that the Vols are previous occasions, with Majors win­long on, it is young men. In the eyes of ning the last three and Devine the first many football experts, Tennessee had two. the finest recruiting year in the nation. Devine's Missouri teams defeated The emotional factor of playing at Notre Majors-coached Iowa State teams in Dame may be just what several of 1968 and 1969 before the Cyclones Majors' young stars ·need to begin to turned the tables in 1970, Devine's fine. I realize their potential. year at Mizzou. Majors' most recent And Notre Dame fans certainly wins over Devine came in 1975 and remember the second of the two trips to 1976 while he was at Pittsbur_gh. Tennessee coach johnny Majors with quarterback Jimmy Streater.  
::::::::::::::::::::::~:~:~:~:~;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;::::::::::::::::::~:~:~:~:~:~:~:::::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:::::;::::::::::::::: If there is one thing college students incurred an injury allowing Tom Gibbons understand, it is an evaluation of a a chance to prove his potential, and the performance through the use of a hard hitting sophomore did just that. grading system. In college football, the Jim Browner and Joe Res tic are also only public evaluation comes in the form hard hitters but the weakness of this line of the top twenty rankings. However, of defense has been lack of speed. The these polls attract much criticism as they opposition has completed 53 percent of are based on a heavy bias among the their passes compared to last year's 46 voters and have a tendency to give more percent completion rate. While they popular teams the higher rankings. tend to bend, they haven't broken, but Well, a simple solution would be to just have only intercepted eight passes so far give each team a report card and rank compared to last year's total of 29, so the schools accordingly until bowl bids give them a 8-. come around. If that was the procedure, here is what Notre Dame's report card Quarterback: Joe Montana has always might look like: been a pressure player. He has made his mark as a comeback player capable of Offensive line: The offensive line got off amazing hot streaks. Montana started to an extremely slow start due mainly to the season off feeling the pressure of their inexperience. They have show defending the national title and his steady improvement each week and statistics bore this out. The Mongahela While the defensive secondary has bent this year, rarely has it broken. [photo by Doug scored well in last week's test. But in all Minuteman has played · more consis­Christian]fairness they do not rank with the best in tently in the last five games noticeable picture is beginning to look brighter.the nation and get a 8 average to date. That has been the case as Jerome cutting down on interceptions. He has Hains is averaging nearly 26 yards per Heavens and Vagas Ferguson have been become more of the leader the Irish will catch which has opened up the shortDefensive line: A good example of a unstoppable in games of late. Against need to earn a major bowl bid. Montana passes to quarterback Joe Montana.solid A defensive line was last year's Navy, this tandem combined for 330 gets an A· for his efforts to date. However, statistically the receiverssquad. But the loss of Ross Browner and yards on the ground. It is possible that manage only a 8-.Willie fry has been seen in the they could both accumulate over 1,000 Overall: The 1977 would earn a 3.8 on inconsistency of play on the defensive yards on the season. With the passing this scale for their performance last year. Linebackers: Everyone expected thisline this year. The Irish front four have game improving along with the offensive However, a midterm report would haveposition to be the most solid so it is noplayed well in the last three games bY,t line, this department should rank with found them with a much lower grade.surprise that the second line of defense have not faced a good rushing team in the nation's best by year end. Give them They improved in leaps and bounds.gets an A. Bob Colic and Steve that time span. In addition, the pass an A. This year's team has improved also andHeimkreiter lead the team in tacklesrush has been mediocre but to their look like they will continue to improve.with 226 between them. Both are sure to credit, the line has been able to come up Defensive Secondary: This was another The specialty teams have not equaledgo in the pro draft with Colic tabbed as awith the big play. For now they earn a big question mark for the Irish at the the play of last year's squad and thatfirst round prospect. An injury to Bobby8-. season's start. Luther Bradley, who now along with the intangibles have causedLeopold has hampered his effectiveness starts for the Detroit Lions of the NFL them to fall short of last year's results.but Mike Whittington has stepped in and was always the anchor to this crew. At this point the offense has scoredReceivers: Early in the season this was shown he can do the job. The 81 tackles Losing Bradley and Ted Burgmeier left slightly higher than the defense with thethe weakest spot in Dan Devine's lineup. between these two gives the linebacking gaping holes in the secon<!ary. Dave team's average hovering around 3.2 toAn injury helped Kris Haines get into an crew over 40 percent of the team total. early slump and no one could expect any Waymer was forced to switch from date. If only those teams on the Dean's of the tight ends to fill the shoes of Ken Runningbacks: When you have the flanker to cornerback and has made a List 3.4 get offered the major bowl bids, MacAfee. Further injuries kept anyone entire National Championship backfield smooth transition. Tom Flynn was the Irish-instructors and students still from establishing themselves but the -returning, improvement is inevitable. designated as the other cornerback but have-some work cut out for· them.  


i
-z l = p 3 ., 
Friday, November 10, 1978 . __ the observer 11 


r 
The Irish Extra 
Irish entertain Vols in last home game 
by Tony Pace Editor-in-Chief 
The Tennessee Volunteers, coming off a 34-0 whitewashing of Duke, come to Notre Dame Stadium this Saturday to wind up the home football schedule. 
This  will  be  the  first  meeting  ever  
between thesf' two schools.  
Although  Tennessee's  record  is  a  

meagre 2-4-1, the Vols have given UCLA and Alabama, two teams rated in the AP Top Ten, close games. Tennessee is in its second year of a rebuilding program under the direction of Coach Johnny Majors. Majors, who successfully turned around floundering programs at Iowa State and Pittsburgh, was 4-7 in his first year coaching at his alma mater. 
The player who has guided the Vols' offensive fortunes is junior quarterback l immy Streater. The b foot, 160-pound junior is a better runner than passer, though he has improved both facets of his game during the season. Majors praised Streater's performance against Duke, saying, '·He had his best game against Duke." Streater, however, has a sprained thumb and is listed a questionable for the game. Should he be unable to perform, his spot will be taken by junior David Rudder. Rudder is more of a passing threat. He had completed 65 percent of his tosses prior to the Duke game. 
An injury also clouds the running back situation. Freshman James Beny has been the starting tailback but he is listed a doubtful because of a shoulder problem. Beny is one of Majors' prize crop of freshmen, a crop reputed to be the best in the country. If Beny can't play, his place will be taken by senior Kelsey Finch, who has seen plenty of action in his three varsity years. The other Vol running back is sophomore Hubert Simpson. 
When Tennessee puts the ball in the air, the man they will look to most often is soph tight end Reggie Harper. As a freshman, Harper snared 30 passes and was named to the All-Freshman team 

;~"ji. 

Tennessee's quarterback jimmy Streater may provide the attack if he can recover from a thumb injury by game time. 
compiled by the Football News. In the first six games of 1978, the 6-3, 220 Harper had amassed 20 receptions. The Vols second leading receiver is senior Jeff Moore. Through six games he had latched onto 15 passes. The Tennessee wingback slot will be filled by senior Billy Arbo. 
The Vol offensive line is lead by senior center Robert Shaw. The 6-3, 240 three-year letterman was named ALL-­SEC in 1977. Shaw is highly rated by pro scouts who say he is one of the top centers in the country. Flanking Shaw at 


,
..
.. ,.
~( 

Notre Dame's one-two punch of Ferguson and Heavens should continue to propel a potent ground attack tomorrow. [photo by Doug Christian] 
the guard positions are 6-4, 241-pound senior Charlton Webb and 6-3, 256 junior Bill Marren. Sophomore Jay Williams (6-3, 256) and junior Phil Sutton (6-3, 240) are the tackles. 
Penn State may be a widely heralded linebacker producing school, but Ten­nessee can't be too far behind. Over the 
last 20 years Tennessee has contributed on 150 hits as a sophomore. Tennessee's many linebackers to the professional two tackles are sophomore Brad White ranks, including: Mike Lucci, Paul and Freshman Lee North. The 6-2, 240 Naumoff, Jack Reynolds, Steve Kiner, White was the number two Tennessee Mike Stratton and Ed Beard. tackler after six games. North is a 6-1. The top linebacker, and top tackler on [continued on page 13] 



Matchups 
Irish Vols 
In the Pits: 

L T -Rob Martinovich LE-Dennis Wolfe 
LG-Jim Hautman RT-Brad White C -Dave Huffman MG-Jim Noonan 
RG-Tim Huffman L T-Lee North 
RT-Tim Foley LE-S~ve Davis 

On the Ground: 

HB-Vagas Ferguson LLB-Chris Bolton 
FB-Jerome Heavens MLB-Jim Noonan 
FL-Pete Holohan RLB-Craig Puki 

In the Air: 

TE-Dennis Grindinger SS -Greg Gaines FL-Pete Holohan FS -Chip Linebarier SE-Kris Haihes LCB-Roland James QB-Joe Montana RCB-Wilbert Jones 
************************** 

In the Pits: 
LE-Jay Case 
L T-Jeff Weston 
RT-Mike Calhoun 
RE-John Hankerd 

On the Ground: 
LLB-Steve Heimkreiter MLB-Bob Golic RLB-Mike Whittington 

In the Air: 
RCB-Tom Gibbons 
LCB-Dave Waymer 
SS -Jim Browner 
FS -Joe Restic 


spark for the Volunteer 
this year's squad is Craig Puli. The 6-1, 219 junior led the team with 74 tackles going into the Duke game. The other linebacker in the Vols' 5-2 defensive alignment is sophomore Chris Botton. 
The top returning tackles from the 1977 squad is junior middle guard Jim Noonan. The 5-10, 220 pounder was in 
RT-Jay Williams RG-Bill Marren C -Robert Shaw LG-Charlton Webb L T-Phil Sutton 
TB-Kelsey Finch RB-Frank Foxx WB-Billy Arbo 
fE-Reggie Harper SE-J eft Moore WB-Billy Arbo QB-Jimmy Streater 



( ..
l 
, 
Friday, November 10, 1978 the observer 13 
The Irish Extra 


I may be wrong, but .. / .. 

===========================================================================~============:=::::::::::::::::::::::=====:===:===::::::====:::::::::::::::=:=:::::======:=;=;=:===::::::::::::::::==;::::::::=:=:=:::::=:=:::=:=:=========::::;::::=:=:::=::;:;:::: Irish Eye: 
~========================================================= 
The favorites stole the show last week so the picking was easy and accurate. This week marks the beginning of the all-out war for bowl bids. The spreads on these games are "slim and none" with upset possibilities in abundance. For Oklahoma, it will be the first real test of their undefeated status as they take on Nebraska with the winner likely to claim the Big-8 title. It is also a good week for the Irish to jump in the polls but for predictors it is a week to make or break your record. So with the help of Lou Severino, here's how the Irish Eye sees them. 
Louisiana State at Alabama: Bear Bryant's squad better win this or they will not be going to a bowl game which is quite a contrast from where the presea­son polls expected them to be. LSU has the kind of offense that can make the Crimson Tide look like they did against USC and they cannot be counted out of the SEC race. I expect a wide open gamewith Bear making the halftime adjust­ments to give his team the 6-point edge. Severino tabs Barna by 13. 
Stanford at Arizona State: There are few teams more unpredictable than these two. Stanford's defense was a surprise to USC last week although the potent passing game was dormant. ASU woke up after the letdown suffered following their win over the Trojans and topped California 35-21. The point totals should top 50 in this matchup with Arizona State's more consistent offense showing a 4-pointspread by game's end. Severino likes Stanford by 1. 
Dartmouth at Brown: This is for all the chips in the Ivy League as the winner is almost assured of the title. Dartmouth has been the surprise to date winning four of five conference games while dropping two non-conference matchups. However, Brown is my pick as they entered the season as the best of the brainies on paper. It should be wide open which is good advertising for the league but watch Brown to take it by 8. Severino agrees. 

Irish co-captain ~ob Golic will be playing in his last game in the Notre Dame Stadium tomorrow. [photo by Doug Christian] 
North Carolina at Clemson: The Tar Heels have had a very disappointing season and while Clemson has only lost one game, they have not gotten any national attention. The Tiger's offense did roll up 51 points against lowly Wake Forest while the Tar Heels were losing to Richmond. Clemson needs this one to keep bowl hopes alive and should have little trouble as they win by 14. Severino picks the Tigers by 11. 
Georgia at Florida: While everyone watches Alabama, Georgia gets closer to slipping in the SEC'.s back door. Well, they better keep their eyes open this week because the Gators are not slouch and have faced a tough schedule to date. This is an upset possibility with the game being playea in Florida but at the same time it means much to the Bulldogs. Expect a slow start but Georgia will recover to claim a 9-point win. Severino goes with Florida by 2. 
Georgia Tech at Air Force: With the 
ND-GT matchup only one week away, it 
will be interesting to see how the 
opposition does with a common oppo­nent. Like Notre Dame, after two opening season losses the Yellowjackets have won six in a row. They have had two weeks to prepare for this game which is more than enough to beat Air Force. The only catch is that Georgia Tech wants to beat Notre Dame so bad, they may be looking a week ahead. It still won't matter as they grab a 10-point victory over the Falcons. Severino goes with Tech by 17. 
Michigan at Northwestern: With so many close games being played, this sure bet could save an embarrassing record. Talk about embarrassment, the Wildcat players will be crucified in front of their own friends.-Perhaps Bo will have mercy but don't bet on it because he is hungry for that Rose Bowl bid and is in no position to be pulling punches now. Michigan will win by 50. Severino conservatively takes the Wolverines by 43. 
Navy at Syracuse: There is a theory that says that after a team loses a big game and must travel the next week to play a formidable opponent, then an upset is in the making. Pitt and Arkansas went this route and so will Navy. The Middies bowl bid is gone which takes a little wind out of their sail. Syracuse almost handed Pitt their third loss in a row and won't miss this time as Navy sinks to a 6 point loss. Severino picks the Middies by 5. 
North Carolina St. at Penn St.; If this game was at Wolfpack Stadium, an upset would look very ripe. Paterno's boys have to be relaxing after their trouncing of unbeaten Maryland. But they are too close to their first national championship and have the home crowd behind them to get them up so the ACC loses another non-conference battle by 14. Severino likes that line. 
Princeton at Yale: It's been a rough year for Yale as they have fallen from power in the Ivy League. Lack of an offense has been the main cause although they did 
put 42 points on the board against Cornell last week. Princeton has been plagued by a vulneraole defense but managed to shutout Penn last week, so who knows what to expect. A lot of money rides on this game back east and for that reason alone I'll look to Yale to beat the spread and the Tigers by 10 points. Severino calls for the Elis by 2 TDs. 
Washington at USC: Both teams are 5-1 in their division but the Huskies have been too inconsistent to bet on. They have won four in a row since losing to Alabama but haven't won the big games. Southern Cal can't afford to lose and when that's the case they rarely do. With UCLA, the division leader, and Notre 
Dame coming up in the next two weeks, the Trojans have their work cut out for them.They have to take them one at a time and lohn Robinson will do just that as USC gets the nod by 10. Severino dittos that pick. 
• • • Irish entertain 
[continued from page 11] 255 pounder who figures prominently in Majors' rebuilding plan. The Vols defensive ends are Steve Davis and Dennis Wolfe. Both weigh ·under 220 pounds and function more as linebackers than down linemen. The secondary is headed by junior cornerback Roland James. At 6-2, 190-pound Major says this versatile athlete could play other positions but he's so good at cornerback that he sees no reason to move him. The other corner is soph Wilbert Jones. The two safeties are both sophomores: Greg Gaines and Clark Duncan. Majors' very young defense starts only one senior. "The defense had a big game against Duke," Majors said, "but we still need to improve the pass rush." Notre Dame is coming off its big win in Cleveland against Navy. Running back Vagas Ferguson looks to pick up where .. he left off against the Middies, breaking the single game rushing mark. Fergu­son now has 808 yards and is well within reach of the 1000 goal mark. Backfield mate Jerome Heavens, the-all-time Notre Dame career rushing leader, has 690 yards. Quarterback Joe Montana has com­pleted 96 of 175 aerials for 1,318 yards and six touchdowns. Montana's favorite receiver has been senior Kris Haines who has nabbed 16 passes for 412 yards and three touchdowns. That's an ave­rage of 25.75 per catch. The defense, which played seven consecutive quarters of shutout football before yielding to Navy in the last minute in Cleveland, is intact. Line­backers Bob Golit and Steve Heimkriter are by far and away the leading Irish tacklers. Colic has 115 total for the year 
and "Kr1ter" has 111. Big play man Jay Case had two fumble recoveries against Navy and he is coming off what he describes as "one of my best games ever." 
Majors' record coaching against Notre Dame is 2-2, but he won the last two contests with his Pitt powerhouse. After the Navy victory Notre Dame coach Dan Devine said, "Tennessee can turn their program around with a victory over Notre Dame." 
Kickoff for tomorrow's game is set for 
1:30 EDT and can be seen locally on WNDU-TV. It will also be broadcast by WSND-am with Lou Severino and Roy Bixby providing the play-by-play begin­ning at 1:25. 
The Irish Extra Editor: Ray 
O'Brien 

Layout and design: John 
Calcutt 

Debbie 

Dahrling 


Houston at Texas: This game will decide the SWC champ. Somehow Houston lost their first game to Memphis State and has since won eight straight. Texas' only loss came decisively against Okla­homa. The game is being played in the Astrodome which give the Cougars an edge. Texas has not shown an efficient offense to date while Houston scored 62 points against TCU last week. In an offensive contest, that will be the deciding factor as Houston triumphs by 
9. Severino likes Texas by 4. 
Oklahoma at Nebraska: Nebraska lost their first game to Alabama and has crushed every opponent since displaying an awesome offense in the process. Oklahoma remains as one of the only two undefeated major contenders. The Sooners have been awesome on both sides of the line boasting an offense that averages over 30 points per game. That should make for an excellent TV game. Nebraska has the home field advantage but the Sooners have more depth and talent. The key may be turnovers as Barry Switzer's team has been able to avoid them so far. I expect that trend to continue as Oklahoma breaks to a 14 point win. Severino tabs the Sooners by 
6. 

Tennessee at Notre Dame: Johnny Majors has been having a disappointing year but did manage his second victory of the season last week, a 34-0 trouncing over Duke. Improvement has been shown but the club is too young to put a scare into a team of the calibre of ND. Still, one must always respect Majors' coaching ability and that alone could cause an upset. The Volunteers will be sky high for their first match ever with the Fighting Irish. That feeling will_ last until the opening kickoff when Devine's team should begin to dominate. Every game is important for ND in the bowl picture so there is no reason for any kind of letdown. The bowl scouts should see a bi~ show as the offense will have another big game (hopefully for two halves this time.) I MAY BE WRONG BUT I'LL PICK THE IRISH BY 20. 
llllllllllli~~~--~-~-'-'·~-'''"~~~~~.-~.-~~~~~~-~-~-'·'•~-~-...~.,-'···'-~'~'~-~-~~'-~'P"~~~~~-····-··~-•'·~-~~~""·'·'·'"'··'·'··~~--~•'·'·'·'·..-'~'-'·'·~•-~-~w~~~-~-"·-'·'-'~'·'-~--~~-~-'-'-·-~~:~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
... 

The Irish Extra 





USC's White tops list of Heisman candidates 
/ ( 

14 the observer Friday, November 10, 1978 
by Lou Severino Sports Writer 

The Heisman Trophy is annually awarded to "the outstanding college football player in America." However this prestigious trophy has a set of qualifications which involve many other factors in addition to individual excel­lence on the playing field. A serious Heisman candidate must 1) play an offensive skill position as 41 of 43 winners have played quarterback or running back 2) compete at a big-time school 3) receive national media expo­sure (especially television) and 4) play for a nationally-ranked team (although on some occasions this has been overlooked) Also the award is usually presented to a senior. It is this last fdctor which makes handicapping this year's Heisman race even more difficult than usual. For although there are several players who possess the four qualities listed above, the two with the most impressive performances are both juniors, running backs Charles White of USC and Billy Sims of Oklahoma. Keeping in mind the fact that there are 3 weeks left in the college season, here is a look at how I rate the top candidates at this time, including a look at their accomplishments this season and other plusses and minuses in their quest for the Heisman. 
1) Charles.White USC This 5-11, 183 pouFld speedster has an excellent chance at becoming the first underclass­man to win thf Heisman since Archie Griffin in 1974. White has received national attention sirke his freshman year when he replaced the injured Ricky Bell and gained 114 yards in the Rose Bowl against Michigan. This year he's gained 1,211 yards in 211 carries for a 
5.6 average and last week his 201 yard effort vs. Stanford enabled him to move past O.J. Simpson and into 3d place among Trojan career rushers. Playing tailback for USC, one of the glamour roles in college football has not hurt White publicity wise and his perfor­mances have not exactly embarrassed his predecessors. In fact, the 20-year old junior needs only 36 yards this week against Washington to pass Anthony Davis and become the Trojan career rushing leader. That record, coupled with White's accomplishments this season and USC's successful record may be enough to capture the votes of the nation's sportswriters and the Downtown Athletic Club. 
2) Billy Sims Oklahoma White's stiffest opf:OSition may come from this junior runner who has burst into the spotlight at Oklahoma this year after being plagued by injuries in his first two collegiate seasons. Sims has paced the Sooner offense with 1397 yards rushing and an amazing 8.0 average per carry. Last week the explosive 21 pounder enjoyed his third straight 200-yard game, helping to finish off the Colorado Buffalos with 221 yards including a 59 yard touchdown run. Sims' rushing average has been bolstered by his ability to break the big gainer which he has done on several occasions this year. Oklahoma Coach Barry Switzer has not hurt his star runner's Heisman chances either as shown by his postgame comments last week. According to Switzer, "Our prime objective was to getr Billy his 200 yards." The Sooners were successful last week, but it may not be enough for Sims to win three race for the Heisman. 
3) Chuck Fusina Penn State Fusina has played well, if not spectacularly for Coach Joe Paterno, leading the Nittany Lions to an offensive output of 33.2 points per game. More importantly the senior signal caller has led Penn State to victory in two nation'al television con­tests (over Ohio State and Maryland). In last week's victory over the Terrapins, Fusina completed 15 of 29 passes including one TO toss and also. ran for another six-pointer. A big plus for Fusina is that he is the only major Heisman threat from an Eastern school and therefore may receive heavy back­ing from the Eastern voters. 
4) Charles Alexander LSU Co<tch Charlie McClendon's star runner has been hampered by a pulled muscle for a large part of the 1978 season. Despite this injury, Alexander has managed 5, 100-yard rushing games and has pushed his career touchdown record to 37. Last week, in his first TV game, the senior scatback ran for 147 yards and three touchdowns in leading the Tigers. to a 30-8 thrashing of Mississippi. This week Alexander has another TV spot lined up ?S LSU meets Alabama. The 6-2, 214-pound Alexander needs another outstanding performance to move up in the Heisman balloting. 
These four players seem to be at the top of the list of the Heisman eligibles. However there are several others who must be considered especially since there are still 3 games left (including many crucial contests which will decide conference championships and bowl bids). So here is a look at the other Heisman candidates listed in alphabeti­cal order. 
Steve Atkins Maryland Atkins has rushed for987 yards this season, but his slim Heisman hopes (along with Maryland's major bowl hopes) were ended by last week's embarrassing loss to Penn State. 
Ted Brown North Carolina State The pride and joy of the Wolfpack has a good chance at becoming the #3 runner in NCAA history behind Tony Dorsett and Archie Griffin. Brown has pushed his career totals over the 4,000-yard mark with another 1,000 plus season for Coach Bo Rein. Unfortunately Brown has not received a great deal of exposure outside the ACC. If he can match his 251-yard performance of two years ago versus Penn State against the Nittany Lions tomorrow. he may receive some of that much needed ink. But it will probably be too little and too late. 
Steve Oils Stanford Oils has turned in a 
_,s.pectacular performance this year as he leads the nation in passing with 217 completions in 338 attempts. Oils has completed 64% of his passes, 19 of which have gone for touchdowns. He has also set a conference record for completions in a season. Despite his impressive individual performance, the Cardinals may finish with a losing record. That, along with his relative obscurity before this year, are the two factors which would seem to prevent him from finishing near the top of the Heisman balloting. 
Mark Herrmann Purdue The sophomore Herrmann is the youngest of the Heisman Candidates. But the second year man from Carmie, Indiana, has enjoyed another fine season and moved into the #7 spot in career passing yardage in the Big 10, having thrown for 3,775 yards in less than two full seasons. However. the Purdue defense has been receiving more plaudits lately, almost to the point of overshadowing 
Herrmann. Anyway, Herrmann seems to be another year or two short of serious consideration for the Heisman. 
Rich Leach Michigan Leach is finishing "' four term as the Wolverine quarter­back. Although Leach has led Michigan to fine seasons' he has really not received much national attention. This is probably due to the Michigan emphasis on running and also Leach's question mark passing arm. Nonethe­less he is still one of the top 15 candidates. 
Willie McClendon Georgia This 6-2, 205 pound tailback is probably the least known player in the Heisman race. Although he played only sparingly last year, McClendon has gained over 100 yards in every game this season for the surprising Bulldogs. H~'s a slashing runner who has totalled 1,115 yards on the year, but will probably be over­looked in the actual voting. _ joe Montana Notre Dame After somewhat of a slow start Montana has played well in recent weeks for the Fighting Irish. joe has completed 96 of 175 passes for 1318 yards and 6 touchdowns. But: he has not had the "big games" like several of the other Heisman hopefuls. An outstanding performance against Tennessee tomor­row could boost his stock in the Heisman race. 
jeff Rutledge Alabama Here is another quarterback who has really not turned in the big effort needed. Although Alabama has bounced back after the loss to USC, Rutledge has been a disappointment for Coach Bear 
· Bryant He is also hurt by the Tide's emphasis on the running game. 
Ed Smith Michigan State The Spartan field general would be near the top of the Heisman race if Michigan State had not been on probation during his years at East Lansing. Smith has thrown for an average of 200 yards per game and 14 touchdowns this year. But without television coverage or the chance for a bowl bid, Smith's chances for the Heisman are very slim. 
jack Thompson Washington State Thompson may not win the Heisman, but he should win an award for the best nickname in college football. The "Throwing Samoan" has completed more passes than any other quarterback in Pac-10 history, 553, and has played well again this season with 127 of 255 for 1,712 yards. Thompson's main handicap at Washington State has been the poor record compiled by the Cougars in his four years. 

Alumni and Friends of NOTRE DAMEi~ -. .. 
Now's your chance!!! U· lfl1 
*Th~ o~-~~rv~~-· .. 
an independent studPnl newspapl"r sprving notre dame and st. mary's 
for only $10. per semester ($20. per year) send payment to: 
~ .. ..... 

THE OBSERVER, CIRCULATION ~1E¥;:::~,7a. BOXQ NOTRE DAME IND. 46556 

with name, address. and zip. 
Money




Talks 
Part of rhe money you give rhe American Cancer Socil·ty helps rhe Inrernarional Association of Laryngecrornees help thousands of people ro learn ro ralk again after rheir voice boxes have been remov.ed. 

Give to the American Cancer Society 
This space conl(ibured bv the ~ub!io.;hor as a publiC service. 


'ch~lt€ Bnown' Op€lls 

Charlie Brown has taken a Jot of abuse in his 15 year history . but happily he took none at the hands ot' the SWdent Players in last night's opening of ' You're a Good man, Charlie Brown." the 1967 musical played well to the moderately sized Washington hall audience which saw two acts composed of semi-related vignettes, interspersed with 14 musical pieces that ranged from the cute and simple to the simply comical. 
"Charlie Brown" the play took no abuse, but "Charlie Brown" the character took plenty, as prescribed by a script that relies on the art of mime and cute one-liners to pull off the illusion of making young adults look like little kids. Cute one-liners are not too hard to deliver, but mime is, and it is obvious that the Student Union sponsored troupe is well disciplined in the art. Faces frozen in lucid expressions of childish dismay, pleasure. anger. boredom and frustration not only sold the illusion to the audience, but it also added a human dimension to the fantasy land-like sets. The stage, filled with deceptively simple look­ing set of glittering trees and a"dog house" aided in creating a world that make.s even a talking Snoopy seem like one of the gang. But "the gang" is really what the play is captured in flesh and blood the ima~e of 
their cartoon .counterparts.. Dave Elhson, a sophomore, did a splendid job in his first lead role on this campus with a somewhat hyper, ins($.cure Charlie Brown.' It pre­sented a nir"' mntr""t to the Intellectual calmness of Bob Zimmerman's'Linus" and the animated sensitivity of. Bradley Hauser's "Schroeder." 
The role of Lucy, the bombastic, domineering nine year old going on 45, was played by Regina Pratt .. She dre~ the most consistent reponse from an audience that reacted to both her grand expressions of self-importance and her pompous miscon­ceptions about life. Also, Joan Skelly's mime in the role of Patty was a pleasure to watch. 
Perhaps the most demanding role in the play is that of Snoopy, the hunter-aviator­entertainer and -both last and least -dog. Tim Grothaus made the role come alive with his dancing, his animation, and his natural inclination to "ham it up." His musical numberswererhythmically intoned rather than sun-g for some reason, which is unfortunate since two of his songs-­" Suppertime" and "Snoopy"--are among the best in the show. 
The players were allowed only three 


all about. Without exception, all the actors days to practice in. Washington Hall before 
tnspoRt Boasts laRqe couect•on 
Herb Juliano, phone in hand, sits at h-s Committee has referred to the Olympic INSPORT include the 19th century periodi­desk in the Department of Special Colle> portion of INSPORT as a mecca for cals called "Annals of Sporting and Fancy tions in the Memorial library. Upon tl:e students working on dissertations or theses Gazette" published from 1822-1828; the walls and shelves of his small, a)m(l;;t in the area of the Olympics," Herb points earliest football rule books ever written; hidden office can be seen an int ~restiHg out. the Dewitt Baseball Guides from 1873­variety of paintings, photos and memori­The boxing portion of the collection is 1879; and a large collection of baseball bilia such as a Gray Goose golf ball still in equally impressive. In addition to numer­yearbooks, score-cards, and World Series its original wrapper, a pl10to surrounded by ous hard cover books on boxing history, and All-Star game programs. autographs of the 1936 U.S. Olympic tea n development, records, and instruction, Juliano is quick to point out that the in Berlin (including Jesse Owens' ai·l there is a wealth of record books, International Sports and Games Research Avery Brundage's) a large wooden ch-;!;s magazines, and tare scrapbooks on such Collection is not a sports museum but piece from the orient, and an ora11ge greats as Joe Louis, Floyd Patterson, rather a viable -sports research library. baseball from Oakland A's owner Chatlie Ezzard Charles, and Muhammed Ali. Sports material--whether it be an ancient Finley: Hanging by the door is a strikhg There is also a fine collection of boxing game program or the latest study on Sports protrait of Rockne with his head tilted slightly back and his full, round f: .ce grinning confidently. "Hello," Herb answers, "Sports and Games Research." "This is the Baseball Commissioner's office in New York," the caller responds, "As you know, the 1978 World Series ·vas the 75th anniversary of the ennt and we were wondering if you could provide us with program covers ... " In past weeks other callers have opened with: "This is Barbara Striesand's !'ecretary calling" and "This is Frank Sinatra's business manager." 
Sound like an exciting job? Herb thinks so. Juliano is Curator/Researcher of the Notre Dame International Sports and Games Research Collection (INSPORT) which is generally held to be, if not the largest, certainly the most unique, most comprehensive collection of sports re­search material in the country. 
The collection was established at Notre Dame in 1966 with the basic commitment to provide resources for the serious, schorlarly study of sport--its nature, devel­opment, historical and statistical back­ground. 
After a tour of the immense collection 

•
housed in the basement of the Memorial fiction dating back to the early nineteenth medicine--is sought for its research value. Library, it is easy to understand why century--colorful literature, pulp maga­A quick browse through the card catalogue INSPORT has become an internationally zines, boxing cartoons, and boxing comics. reveals th'e magnitude and diversity of the 
known and used sports research library. Last August, Frank Sinatra offered to areas of sport research possible at 
Practically ever sport and game ·known is 'buy the INSPORT collection of boxing INSPORT: sport is related to many topics represented in the collection in books, material. Sinatra wanted the boxing and disciplines from racism, gambling, and pamphlets, periodicals, and on microfilm. collection for his new International Boxing women to law, medicine, and sex. 
"We strive to be broadminded and Hall of Fame which is scheduled to be ''The development of the study of sportunlimited in scope,' says Juliano. "We've 

complete in Las Vagas in 1979. Juliano during·the last decade into an international always avoided centering our collection declined to say how much Sinatra had scholarship with various disciplines and around the more traditional sports. We're offered the University. Though neither the sub-disciplines has been phenomenal,"interested inany sport, any game, any boxing collection nor any part of INSPORT says Herb, adding, "but this was to be country and any period of time. That's is for sale, Juliano arranged to have, at expected in a world in which sport playswhat makes this ~ollection unique." Ever Sinatra's t:xpense, the ba.xing material put such a prominent part."hear of sports such as stoolball, curling, on microfilm an.(! a duplicate sent to him. INSPORT is available to anyone inter­
spell, or.pushball? These and over oSOO t In September, ~Jon Peters,movte·producer ested in serious sports research. rn the other sports and games can be found on the and husband ot Harbara Streisimd, contac­past years, Juliano has assisted students as shelves of.the INSPORT library. ted Juliano about the ppssibility of doing well as researchers from all over the 
Juliano takes special pride in the research at INSPORT. Peters,. who is world--Ireland, Italy, and Japan for Olympic and Boxing section of the. colle~­currently planning a film related to boxing example--in sports projects, books, and .tion far they are.among the_fi~est m in which Streisand would star, is interested other types of research. The number and 
the world. Last June Herb represented in fictional boxing material that could be diversity of researchers increases everyNotre Dame's INSPORT library at a adapted into a script for his film. • year. Recently a writer from Switzerland 
meeting of the U.S. Olympic Committee at Naturally INSPORT has the finest collec­on behalf of the NorW-egian BroadcastingIllinois University. The purpdse of tb,e tion of Notre Dame sports material which Corp. journeyed to Notre Dame to research meeting was the designation of one ranges from hard cover books, periodicals, the life of the Norwegian Knufe Rockne for university sports library from among the and microfilm on coaches, players, history, a radio dramatization to be aired in Europe 
several represented there, as the official records, and, statistics tQ a variety of next year. During the week of the Purdue 
'· Olympic study md research center. A's of irreplaceable memoribilia such as a collec­game, Coles Phinizy of "Sports Dlus­yet, the U.S. Olympic Committee has not tion of Irish football programs as far back trated" did research for an article on 
reached a decision, however, Juliano feels as the firs ND-Michigan game of 1887 and Rockne. Phinizy, an experienced writer that INSPORT is the top contender for the a coUection of rare photos of Knute who has seen other sports libraries across 
honor. "A member of the U.S. Olympic ~e. Other notable items of interest at the country, had nothing but praise for the 

• 

the show's opening, and that fact resulted in one of the very few weaknesses in the production. The hall has very poor 
•acoustics, and the timing on a few songs was a bit off because of it. The sound of the piano and percussion were occasionally lost somewhere between the velvet legs, stage curtains, and monstrously high ceilings, a flaw that could probably be corrected by turning the piano more toward the audience for the final three perfor­mances. 
Speaking of the final three, you should catch one of them this weekend. The· production is well done, and the very few opening night technical weaknesses should be cleared up in time for tonight's show. !but most importantly, you should catch it because itis a great play. It is infectious because it captures so well the innocence in the individudal impulses that make up, to a greater or lesser degree, the intangible spirit that gets refined in an individual-­and finally obscured--during adolesence. The lines and music are woven together in vignettes that have a very "human" fabric. 
The last three shows will be presented at 8 p.m. on Friday and Saturday, and again at 2 p.m. Sunday. 
Mark Rust resources at INSPORT and the helpfulness of Herb Juliano. 

In addition to assisting researchers at INSPORT, Juliano maintains a "mutually b'eneficial rapport" with hundreds of organizations, institutions, and individ­uals. The INSPORT Newsletter is distrib­uted to 450 foreign and domestic organiza­tions such as. the U.S. State Department, the three major T.V-. fietworks, and F.A.N.S.--a Ralph Nadar supported otgan­ization in Washington, D.C. 
"We try to let them know what we are 
doing  here  and  what  we  can  offer,"  
explains Herb.  ·  
Herb receives mail  daily from  foreign  

sports clubs which donate material on .their particular sport or game. At the time. of this writing, the Royal Caledonian Curlmg Club sent INSPORT several books and other research material on curling, ~ sport native to Scotland. ­
Approximately , three-fourths of the material added to the collection is donated, in fact. The rest is purchased, which Juliano laments, is a full time job: "There are so many new books and magazines, I can hardly keep up with them mysdf. The 'bibliographyis very difficult. We add new matena1 JUsr about every day to ou.· collection.'' 
Two recent donations to INSPORT were gifts from the University-of Detroit and Johnny Evers Jr. Last March, -Detroit gave the sports library sixteen cartoons of books and memorabilia in the areas of boxing, wrestring, martial arts, and phy:>ical fit­ness. The gift, valued at $10,000 and comprising a total of 987 items. included rare scrapbooks, old publications, photos, and monographs. · 
Johnny Evers Jr., whose father was the Hall of Fameer, and the midc!le man in the famous Tinkers-toEvers-to-Chance double , play, donated a valuable collection of baseball mamoribilia. 
By far the most significant acquisition to INSPORT was the purchase three years ago of the Goldfaden collecti_on of Los Angeles for approximately $100,000. The purchase of this collection of well over a million sports books and game programs changed the dimensions of INSPORT considerably. ''The acquisition placed INSPORT in a different ball park,'' Juliano points out. "The material which weighed 56 tons was delivered to the Notre name campus in three 40-ft. semi-trailer trucks and' required nearly two years to fully complete the unpacking, sorting, and reorganization," recalls Juliano. 
As theo International Sports and Games Research Collection is added to daily, Herb ·foresees the day when the collection will outgrow its present location in the base­ment of the Memorial Library. Juliano's dream is a separate facility w~ich would com}Jine a Notre Dame ~Athletic Hall of Honor with an International Sports and Games Research Center--a place where Notre Dame's heroes would be honored and the study of sport in all its dimensions continued. 
"A new site for the collectio~ isn't going to just pop up over night, unless somebody _were to step forward and donate half a million dollars," sighs Juliano. 
In any case; with the steady stream of researchers to INSPORT and the daily acquisitions of past and recent sports material to the collection, Herb Juliano finds Ji~e ~~e to worry whether someone 
ever wilL Pat O't.ry 

--.::.,r= < 





Autwnn Bnnbtrlanb. 
It's strange--isn't it--that of the four seasons Winter seems to have a copyright (I won't say 'stranglehold', or 'bear hug') on the wonderful word 'Wonderland'. Why is this? Je ne salil pas--I do not know. I can't figure it out--it 'beats me'! I was trying to figure it out the other day--as I sat beside Moses, on one of Autumn's ':Nery most finest' days. Moses seemed to be of precious little help. I guess he was thinking about the Law--and trying to figure out something about it. He seemed to be compl_etely Impervious to Autumn. Lawyers are like that--sometimes. 
You would have thought that Keats' ode To Autumn would have gotten through to all of us here on earth--and certainly to Moses in his celestial abode! Why, I remember memorizing this poem when I was scarcely more than a little urchin (or, if you prefer, ragamuffin) -and then analyzing it in school (you know how School dissects poems ... ) when I was scarcely more than a little bigger urchin (or: ragamuffin). 'Tis curious how this poem has stayed with me--and the hold that it has on mel Yes, the best things in life are free ... Let us, then, see and hear this poem again: 
Season of mists and mellow fruitfulness, Close bosom-friend of the maturing sun; Conspiring with him how to load and bless With fruit the vines that round the thatch-eaves run; To bend with apples the moss'd cottage-trees, And fill all fruit with ripeness to the core; To swell the gourd, and plump the hazel shells With a sweet1 kernel; to set budding more, And still more, later flowers for the bees, Until they think warm days will never cease, For Summer has o'er-brimm'd their clammy cells. 
II 

Who hath not seen thee oft amid thy store? Sometimes whoever seeks abroad may find Thee sitting careless on a granary floor, Thy hair soft-lined by" the winnowing wind; Or on a half-reap'd farrow sound asleep, Drowsed with the fume of poppies, while thy hook Spares the newt swath and all its' twined flowers: And sometimes like a gleaner thou dost keep Steady thy laden head across a brook; Or by a cider-press, with patient look, Thou watchest the last pozings, hours by hours. 
III 

Where are the songs of Spring? Ay, where are they? Think not of them, thou hast thy music too,­While barred clouds bloom the soft-dying day, And touch the stubble-plains with rosy hue; Then in a wailful choir the small gnats mourn Among the river sallows, borne aloft Or sinking as the light wind lives or dies; And full-grown lambs loud bleat from hilly bourn; Hedge-crickets sing; and now with treble soft The redbreast whistles from a garden-croft, And gathering swallows twitter in the skies. 
Now, supposing--dear reader--that I brought another poem to autumn in here--right at this point in space and at this point in time--would it bother you? It wouldn't? Then I'll bring it 
•. in. It would? Then I'll bring it in anyway. A lot of good things--and a lot of true and beautiful things--happen by 'one's being bothered'. Come here, William Blake's poem To Autumn, come in here (after all, I did considerable 'looking around' to find you--and the least you can do to 'repay' me is to e:dst gladly here on the page before us (the readers and me the writer--or the readers and me 'the citer of poems') and to act ('act good, like a poem should'): 
0 Autumn, laden with fruit, and stained With the blood of the grape, pass not, but sit Beneath my shady roof; there thou may'st rest, And tune thy jolly voice to my fresh pipe, And all the daughters of the year shall dance! Sing now the lusty song of fruits and flowers. 
'The narrow bud opens her beauties to The sun, and love runs in her thrilling veins; Blossoms hang round the brows of Morning, and Flourish down the bright cheek of modest Eve, Till clust'ring Summer breaks forth into singing, And feathered clouds strew flowers round her head. 
'The Spirits of the Air live on the smells Of fruit; and Joy, with pinions light, roves round The gardens, or sits singing in the trees.' Thus sang the jolly Autumn as he sat; Then rose, girded himself, and o'er the bleak Hills fled from our sight; but left his golden load. 
All right, I take it that even the most listless among us has.(have) been awakened from his (or her--or their, or our) torpor. We are now tuned in to Autumn--to Autumn Wonderland--thanks to John Keats' 'To Autumn-ing' it and to William Blake's 'To Autumn-ing' it. Allow me the gerund here. You see, their being was very much 'To Autumn'--and then they radiated this being to us. 'Being radiates .. .' (It's interesting--isn't it?--that two great poets have each a poem To Autumn. But it isn't HARD TO BEUEVE IS IT? 'Birds of a feather flock together ... '). 
I feel here a Jacques Maritain quote coming on--and I wouldn't call it an Interjection (some of you might--but I wouldn't!). Here it is--on (on the scene, on the page before us(: " ... The substance of man is to obscure to himself; it is only by receiving and suffering things, by awakening to the world, that our substance awakens to itself. The poet can only express his own substance in a work ifthings resound in him, and if, in him, at the same awakening, they and he emerge together from sleep. All that he discerns and divines in things is thus inseparable from himself and his emotion, and it is actually as a part of himself that he discerns and dh ines it, and in order to grasp obscurely his own being through a knowledge the end of which is to create. His intuition, the creative intuition or emotion, is an obscure grasping of him~elf and things together in a knowledge by union or connaturality, which only takes shape. bears fruit and finds expression in the work, and which, in all its vital weight, seeks to create and produce. This is a very different knowlege from what is generally called knowledge; a knowledge which cannot be expressed in notions and judgements, but which is experienced rather than knowledge, and creative experience, because it wants to be expressed, and it can only be expressed in a work. This knowledge is not previous or 1 ·esupposcd to creative activity, but integrated in it, consubstantial with the movement t.warrl the work. and this is preci'iely what I call poetic knowledge" (The Range of Reason, p. 18). 
You see--dear reader (I keep calling you dear--and you really are!)-I thought it w<;JUid be wonderful in an c:ssay on Autumn Wonderland to see a little how two poets in this land gave us two wonderful poems. In seein~ the wonders of Autumn land we want to see also the wonders of Autumn mind. 
A contempor<~ry 'bird of a feather' is Robert Frost (why yes, he is a contemporary--he hasn't been dead all that long! Moreover, all great philosophers and poets and contemplatives are our 'contemporaries'. As Jacques Maritain has said (Jacques Maritain, again--what an inexhaustible well of Insight, of spiritual depth-charges!), '"What happens,' in the case of spiritual events, comes on the scene for an instance in temporal existence, but comes forever in the existence of souls and of thought"). See this 'bird' Frost 'October-ing' in his poem October: 
0 hushed October morning mild, Thy leaves have ripened to the fall; To-morrow's wind, if it be wild, Should waste them all. The crows above the forest call; To-morrow they may form and go. 0 hushed October morning mild, Begin the hours of this day slow. Make the day seem to us less brief. Hearts not averse to being beguiled, Beguile us in the way you know. Release one leaf at break of day; At n09n release another leaf; One from our trees, one far away. Retard the sun with gentle mist; Enchant the land with amethyst. Slow, slowl For the grapes' sake, if they were all, Whose leaves already are burnt with frost, 
Whose clustered fruit must else be lost­For the grapes' sake along the wall. 
You find it sad,--you say? Well, what did you think? Did you think ~at Autumn land was all glad? Did you not know -did it never dawn (or twilight) on you--that Autumn (as indeed everything in this here world here) is ambivalent--i.e. 'GLAD/sad'? If no--if not--then you had really better get 'with it',--1 mean, with the wonderlng ... Your wondering leaves something to be desired. It needs a boost (I won't say a 'kick in the rear'), and I am not averse to giving it one (I would be averse to giving it one). Are you following me? Behold the boost (don't construe it as a pill! You may be comforted by the fact that it appeals to science. I quote again from my 'booster'): "I do not believe, moreover, that science fosters a particularly optimistic view of nature. Every progress in exolution is dearly paid for: miscarried attempts, merciless struggle everywhere. The more detailed our knowledge of nature becomes, the more we see, together with the elelment of generosity and progression which radiates from being, the law of degradation, the powers of destruction and death, the implacable voracity which are also inherent in the world of matter. And when it comes to man, surrounded and invaded as he is by a host of warping forces, psychology and anthropology are but an account of the fact that, while being essentially superior to all of animals .. .'' (On the Use of Pbllosophy, pp. 70-71). 
I leave this text--with your permission, dear reader (there I go again--but, like I said, I really mean it)--not completed. I will complete it in a moment, or by and by. Right now I want to give you another shot of sadness (and at sadness--1 mean, in your wondering--in your wondering about Autumn wonderland). Here it is -Gerard Manley Hopkins' Spring and Fall: to a young cblld: 
Margaret, are you grieving Over Goldengrove unleaving? Leaves like the things of man, you With your fresh thoughts care for, can you? Ah! as the heart grows older It will come to such sights colder By and by, nor spare a sigh Though worlds of wanwood leafmeal lie; And yet you will weep and know why. Now no matter, child, the name: Sorrow's springs are the same. Nor mouth had, no nor' mind, expressed What heart heard of, ghost guessed: It is the blight man was born for, It is Margaret you mourn for. 
Now, I complete the text: "So it is that when its vision of the world is enlightened by science, the intellect which religious faith perfects realizes still better than nature, however good in its own order, does not suffice, and that if the deepest hopes of mankind are not destined to turn to mockery, it is because a God-given energy better than nature is at work in us.'' 
A 'God-given energy' --grace, and revelation and religious faith--may introduce a whole new dimension to the world of nature, as well as to the world of man. It may Illumine man's world--and man's seeing, and man's wondering--and it may enable him to see that in the final analysis glad has it all over sad--and that 'gladness from above' (the "glad tidings") may superelevate lmd put into better bas-relief the 'gladness from below'. 
Witness now, for example, this other poem of Gerard Manley Hopkins, Hurrablng In Harvest: 
Summer ends now; now, barbarous in beauty, the stooks rise Around; up above, what wind-walks! what lovely behaviour Of silk-sack clouds! has wilder, wilful-wavier Meal-drift moulded ever and melted across skies? 
I walk, I lift up, I lift up heart, eyes, Down all that glory in the heavens to glean our Saviour; And, eyes, heart, what looks, what lips yet gave you a Rapturous love's greeting of realer, of rounder replies? 
And the azurous hung hills are his world-wielding shoulder Majestic -as a stallion stalwart, very-violet-sweet! ­These things, these things were here and but the beholder Wanting; which two when they once meet, The heart rears wings bold and bolder And hurls for him, 0 half hurls earth for him off under his feet. 
Have a good wonder--dear reader--at Autumn Wonderland. Maybe we can get Moses--and all lawyers--into the act, too. 
Prof. Joseph W. Evans 




-~~ ----~--~ --~-~­
the observer 17 

f '· 


the 
You may not know...... . 




-SEA LEVEL/ On The Edge 
Randall Bramblett, Davis Causey, Chuck Leavell, Jimmy Nails, Lamar Williams and new-addition, former Wings' drummer, Joe Eng­lish are back again with a new, strongly const_ructed, sensitive and rhythmically free-flowing lp ON THE EDGE. 
SEA LEVEL/On The Edge , 

What you're Missing!!! 

SEA LEVEL/ Cats On The Coast 
Randall Bramblett, Davis Causey and George 
Weaver join ranks with 
Chuck Leavell, Jimmy 
Nails, Jai Johanny 
Johanson and Lamar 
Williams to evolutionize 
SEA LEVEL on their 
second lp Cats On The 
Coast. 
SEA LEVEL/Cats On The Coast -~ · 
Just ~oR the QecoRb q1ves notRe Oame stubmts a 
10% biSCOUnt With StUb€llt 10. 
Is th€R€ a Reason to qo anywheRe else ~OR YOUR ffiUSIC? 







Just ~oR the RecdRb 

Op€11 

100 CenteR Complex phone 
. 7 bays 

mtshawaka ln. 259-1813 
' 

18 the observer .f'ridav, November 10, 1978 

•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••

:• 
: 
• 277-1691


• 

~ onQq 5 rnillul!ill 1/rorn cornpllll $5.UU 
•

•••••••••••••••••-se•••••..••••••• 
HAMMOND Ind. [AP] -A CIA official testified yesterday in the espionage trial of William Kampiles that agency employees were on an honor system to protect the security of classified material kept in CIA headquarters. 
Kevin Donoghue, deputy chief of the agency's technical services group, added that the problem of documents being removed from CIA grounds became serious enough to prompt CIA Director Stanfield Turner earlier this year to i~sue a written memorandum or­dering the practice stopped. 
Under persistent cross-examina­tion by defense attorney Michael Monico, Donoghue conceded it was possible that someone else took the top-secret manual Kampiles is accused of selling to Soviet agents, 






IntervieWS 
campus 
for Tl Equipment Group 
Match your degree to our multitude of openings. 
(U.S. Citizenship required) 
-----------------Degrees 
Electrical Engineering Mechanical Engineering Industrial Engineering Materials Science 
Engineering/Computer 
Software/Hardware 

Microwave Development 
Field Test Support 
Logic Design 

Optics Design-Thin Film 
Coating Environmental Design Space Telecommunications Infrared Reconnaissance Thin/Thick Film Design Fab Liaison Engineering Test Equipment Design NC Programming Systems Analysis Cryogenics-Heat Transfer Manufacturing Supervision Printed Wiring Board 
Engineering FAB Methods Signal Processing 


Espionage trial reveals ,CIA relies on honor code 
Engineering Physics Process and Plastics Engineering Mechanics Engineering Optics (Engineering) Computer Science 
Manufacturing Technology (Software/Hardware) 
Openings--------------­
Production Control Functional Manufacturing 
Engineering Project Manufacturing Engineering Control Digital/Analog Circuit Design Thermal Analysis Mechanical Packaging Tool Design Antenna Design Laser Development Radar Design Computer Software Assembly Methods Computer-aided Design Computer-aided Testing Aerodynamics Control Systems Applied Mechanics Quality and Reliability 
Assurance 
Live in Dallas. 
Manufacturing Information 
Systems Microprocessor Design Minicomputer Applications Mechanical Design Automated Test Equipment 
Manufacturing 
Project-oriented Manufacturing involving: 
• 
Coordinating Manufacturing Schedule Commitments 

• 
Cost-Control/Budget Development 

• 
Use of Real-Time 


Computer Systems Manufacturing Supervision Assembly Methods Fab Methods Tool Design NC Programming 
The Southwest's largest and liveliest metropolitan area. 
Discover all the glitter and glamour, spectacular sport and high fashion Dallas is famous for­yet an economical place to make a home. Cost of living is way below the urban U.S. average. And there's no state income tax. The country's 7th largest city has year-round sunshine plus lots of lakes and facilities to enjoy it. Dallas and surrounding area has 47 colleges, 50 hospitals, 2 major medical education and research institutions, and a wealth of major media and entertainment. 
Interviewing on Campus .November 15-16 
If unable to interview at this time, send resume to: Ruth Lodowski/Texas Instruments/P. 0. Box 226015, M.S. 222I Dallas, Texas 75266. ' 
TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 
INCORPORATED 
An equal opportunity employer M/F 
or destroyed it without proper authorization. Donoghue said he destroyed one of three copies of the manual entrusted to him but made no record of doing so. 
"Once you go through a back­round investigation on an individu­al, and he has passed the test set up by the agency and has been brought ori board and given a job to do, the system is based on· trust, and there is no way you can guarantee that something like that won't happen," Donoghue said. 
Kampiles is on trial in U.S. District Court here on espionage charges stemming from the alleged sale to Soviet agents of a technical manual on the KH-ll, a sophisti­cated space satellite used to moni­tor troop movements and missile installations in the Soviet Union. 
Donoghue, a former chief of the imagery watch office, said he took one of his three copies of the manual to the seventh-floor office where Kampiles worked as a watch officer in the spring of 1977. He said he kept one copy for training purposes and destroyed a third, although the destruction was not supervised or witnessed by the two required individuals. 
Donoghue also admitted that despite CIA policy, he didn't complete a pre-printed form to report destruction of the manual. 
About a year later, Donoghue was told to find the three copies of the manual, and when he looked for one in the file cabinet of the watch office, the manual was missing, he said. 
Under questioning, Donoghe ad­

' mitted he did not ask any of the watch officers when they last saw the manual. He testified that after the manual was published, a "more readable" handbook on the satell­ite was circulated in the watch office. It, too, was classified top secret. In his questioning, Monico sug­gested that someone might have destroyed the watch office copy of the manual, thinking that the less-technical handbook replaced it. He noted that agency rules require that sensitive information be destroyed once its purpose has been served. "I can't testify as to what might have been on someone else's mind," Donoghue said. But he added that the destruction rule would not have applied to the KH-11 manual because it was still current. 
Later, Monico noted that at least 13 copies of the manual are missing and suggested that the copy Kampiles is accused of selling "may be missing in the same way these other 13 are missing." 
The attorney said, "We do know that some of those documents were destroyed without a witness or a record because you, yourself, de­stroyed one that way, didn't yo~?" 
"Yes, I did," Donoghue rephed. The trial was recessed until Monday. 

I (e) ;111,jt I 
1 Mile No."of N.D. u.s. 31 No. m-1522 
HELD OVER -TIDRD WEEK! 
ffiiDN IGHT EXPRESS 
FEATURE DAILY ·7:00-9:20 -R­[One weekend kiddie matinees] 
, 

~rid~~!_~ov~~~_er 10, !971!______..........,.th~a[_o_bt.llsueurv..131e~r---..!.1~9 



Schmidt avows German guilt ****************************** 
-
COLOGNE,-West Germany [AP] 
--Chancellor Helmut Schmidt, 
wearing a black skullcap, 
acknowledged a German "heritage 
of the guilty" on the 40th anniver­
sary yesterday of the start of the 
Jewish Holocaust. As the chan­
cellor spoke, police said anti­
Semitic slogans were smeared on 
walls in two northern German 
towns. 
"The Fuehrer lives!" said signs pasted by unknown persons on several houses in Flensburg. "Jews out," "The lie of the gas chambers," and "A dead Jew is a good ~ew," read slogans sprayed on homes in Bredstedt, where traffic signs also were smeared with swastikas. 
Schmidt promised to listen to Jewish views in the debate over expiration of West Germany's statute of limitations for Nazi murders. 
The deadline on initiating murder charges for war crimes expires Dec. 31, 1979, and that date is now the focus of a controversy over whether to lift the statute to permit trials to continue indefinitely. 
"We politicians and lawmakers will listen to what our .Jewish citizens, our friends in Israel and what our neighbors in Europe will say," Schmidt said in a speech at Cologne synagogue honoring vic­tims of the November 9, 1938 pogrom against German Jews. 

"Each of us prays that his conscience will act correctly in this question," the chancellor said. The speech ws nationally televised from the rebuilt synagogue burned by the Nazis 40 years ago. 
''This difficult question demands a decision in which important principles come into conflict with each other," Schmidt said, referring to those who believe Germany already has paid the price for the Nazi past and that further trials are useless. 
The ceremony marked the anni­versary of the burning of syna­gogues, looting of Jewish shops and arrests of thousands of Jews in a Nazi storm trooper rampage known as ''Kristallnacht,'' or crystal night, because of the glass from shop whindows littering city streets. ' 
Ninety-one Jew were killed in the attacks which foreshadowed the extermination of six million European Jews in Nazi death camps during World War II. 
In Jerusalem, Israel com­memorated the beginning of Nazi 

Business Administration receives $200,000 pledge 
by Betsy SpineUi 
The international accounting firm of Deloitte Haskins and Sells has pledged $200,000 to the Col­lege of Business Administration to be paid over a five-year period. 
Bro. Leo V. Ryan, dean of the College, and Richard I. Fremgen, a partner in the Chicago office of the firm, announced the pledge early in October. So far, the money has not been earmarked for any specific purpose, but will benefit various faculty and student activities in the 
College,  particularly  in  the  
accounting department.  
The pledge  is  the  result  of  a  

system of matching gifts in which 

the firm agreed to match contri­butions made by partners, 20 of whom are Notre Dame alumni. 
Deloitte Haskins and Sells has long supported academic research and development in accounting and auditing and has recruited graduates of Notre Dame's accounting department for more than 40 years. 
The firm's contribution was made in conjunction with the campaign for Notre Dame, a five­year fund-raising drive which began in the spring of 1977. 
A goal of $130 million makes it the largest campaign in the Uni­versity's history. Over $100 million has already been pledged to the University. 

persecution by renewing its cam­paign to persuade West Germany to lift the statute of limitations. An Israeli Foreign Ministry spokes­man said Israel is holding "ongoing discussions" on diplo­matic and oarliamentary levels with the West German government to eliminate the deadlin.:!. 
Pat Paulsen to speak 

Pat Paulsen will p~esent a lecture on humor Sunday at 8 p.m. in Saint Mary's O'Laughlin Auditorium. 
In addition to his presentation, auls~n will show film clips examing the various kinds of humor that have existed throughout the history of the United States. 
Subjects will include political satire, ethnic and physical humor, television commercials, and televi­sion and film outtakes never seen because of censorship. 
Tickets cost $3 for general admission and $2 for-students, faculty, staff, administration, and are E".vailable at 239 Moreau Hall today and at the door. 
t TIMM PARTY STORE I * OPEN:MON-SAT 9am-11pm * * SUNDAY12noon-11pm * 



! BEERSALE i 
: 3114 S.11 ST., NILES, MICHIGAN:
* 1 Block No_rth of State Line on U.S. 31 * 
****************************** 
I



sophomoQe class I 
I 
I I


n1qht at tl)e nazz I 
I I 

COm€ S€€ YOUR I 
~Rtenos peR~oRm!! 
monOay, nov. 20 1 I 
10:00 pm to 12:00 pml I I 
•r you woulO llk€ to P€RrOJ~m OR roR mOR€ I 
mroRmatJOn, call f:Rank 'R€0' BROWn at 3213 : 
NO vs Tennessee Kegger Special at 
WAYNEtS OAK DAIRY PARTY STOR WiTH EACH KEG PURCHASED Keg Party Package WE WILL SUPPLY AT 

50 cups 

NO CHARGE 
niles mich. 

stateline line rd. 
271bs of ice tapper rental 
. ­



;)~-·~ 

tub rental
~· 
~4ii 

~~~ open 9 to midnight mon-sat 
call .684-4950 
STATELINE ROAD IN NILES ONE BLOCK EAST OF US 31 
~.D. lacrosse Club President Tim Walsh [right] kicks-off the team's raffle by selling the first ticket to Kevin Coleman. 

Lacrosse team offers grand prize 
The Notre Dame Lacrosse Team is offering a trip to the Bahamas as the grand prize in a raffle to help finance club activities for the upcoming season. 
Included in the trip for two is roundtrip airfare plus eight days and seven nights in the Freeport Inn. The trip may be taken any time from May to August of next year. 
Other prizes in the raffle include a ten-speed bicycle, a Pickering Notre Dame shirt-sweater en­semble, and a keg of beer. 
Team members will be selling tickets for fifty cents. drawing will be held during Mardi Gras week. 
For information call Bob Curley at 8384 or Mark. Tallmadge at 


RicI  
Ore~  ISS...  
~  ine  
Private  .ective .  






oVgnx
111ct-111 C) ctl1ct-CJaJ() 
EXTRA MIDNITE SHOWS FRIDAY & SATURDAY 1:30-3:40-5:45-7:50-10-12:00 
NATJeNAI. 
LAMPeexs 

AMI~AL 
aeuta 
NOW SHOWING ~ 
234-1821. 

....2idO..________jt..h..a:811L...:O-...b._.s.ueOE:rvL-ll-'e..rL-____Friday, November 1o1 1978 
-

Carter signs energy-oil package 
decade becaUSI! the vote was challenged in court. "The possibility of this thing
SUMMER PROGRAMS: 
dragging on indefinitely leaves us in the position of having two minority parties in the House,''

LONDON MAY22-JUNE22 
House Majority Leader James Manderino said while sitting in the ornate, spacious office provided for the majority leader.
Travei in lreiand, Scotland, Engiand, France 
Asked if the Republicans would have to drag him from that office if the tie persists, Manderino smiled and said, "Possession is nine­tenths of the law.'' 
The majority party, of course,
ROME JUNE20-JULYl9 
has the obvious advantage of more political clout. But there are other niceties that accompany that desig­nation.
Travei in France, Gennany, Switzerland, and Italy 
The majority party controls the House's 21 committees; elects the 
House speaker, who runs the House; controls the chief clerk's office and its hundreds of patron­age jobs; and gains better office space. 
Classes available in Art, Economics, History, Italian ~ literature 
As a result, both parties are throwing heavy artillery into gain­ing the pivotal House seat, which 
COME TO A SliDE PROGRAM ON THE 1978 PROGRAMS 
IN ROOM 232 MOREAU HALL ON NOV. 14 AT 7:30 PM 
represents about 25,000 largely rural, conservative residents in Adams County in south-central Pennsylvania. 
Since the Republicans won the governor's seat on Tuesday, there is even more incentive for them to want to control the House. The
For information, call Prof. Black at SMC 4948 or at home-272-3726 
Democrats rule the Senate. 






i*W*H*EN*YOU'RE**fiiE*D*A*ND·························l 

WASHINGTON [AP] · President Jimmy Carter, expressing "great personal satisfaction," signed a weakened version crf his energy plan into law yesterday after an 18-month political struggle with Congress. 
"We have acquitted ourselves well as a nation," Carter declared at a White House signing cere­mony. 
After placing his signature on several bills that comprise the energy package, the president flew to Kansas City, MO, to address a Future Farmers of America con­vention and hold a news confer­ence. 
In the East Room, crowded with congressmen and other dignitaries, Carter said publicly what adminis­tration officials have been saying privately since the 95th Congress 
passed  the  compromise  plan  on  
Oct.  IS:  the  plan  is  bound  to  
change.  

''As problems evolve we will ask 

Pat Paulsen A Lecture in Humor apm Sunday N'ovember 12 Olaughlin Aud. SMC Tick~ts on -Sale in Programming Office, Moreau Hall SMC General Admission
Students $2.00 

$3.00 Sponsored by SMC Student Government 
of energy; incentives to spur production of available energy supplies; and a shift to more a bundant supplies of energy, such as coal and solar energy. 
He said the energy plan will enable the United States to save two and one-half million barrels of oil per day by 1985. 
The 95th Congress completed work on the energy package just before adjourning Oct. 15, giving Carter a big domestic victory even though many of his original proposals were deleted. They 

Jeffrey Jacob to play Canada concerts 
Jeffrey Jacob, faculty· member at Saint mary's, will play concerts at the Goethe Institutes of Ottawa and Toronto on Nov. 12 and 13. he is the first American pianist to be invited to perform at these institu­tions. 
A member of the Saint Mary's music faculty since 1977, Jacob received his bachelor of music degree from the Juilliard School, and is currently completing his doctor of musical arts degree at the Peabody Conservatory of the Johns Hopkins University. 
This summer Jacob studied at the Salzburg Mozarteum and pre­sented a . recital at the Salzburg International Music Festival. 
Congress to modify the bill," the president said. 
At his news conference later, he said the new law is only 65 percent · of what he wanted since his plan would have saved an estimated four and one-half million barrels of oil a day by 1985. 
"But I have not given up on my original proposal that thee should be a constraint on the excessive consumption of oil and the exces­sive importantion of oil," he said. "How we go about that I don't know yet." 
He said passage of the plan was "one of the most difficult legisla­tive tasks that Congress has ever undertaken -possibly in the history of the country." 
The plan is much weaker than the proposal Carter submitted to Congress 18 months ago in what he called the "moral equivalent of 
war." 
But he said it encompasses his three main principles: efficient use included stiff new taxes on gaso­
line, crude oil and industrial fuels. 
While the bill provides tax 
credits to consumers .for various 
energy conservation steps, it also is 
expected to increase costs for 
natural gas users. There is 
disagreement on how much. 

Opponents of deregulating na­tural gas prices have claimed it will transfer $200 billion from consu­mers to producers over the next seven years. They say that could mean increases averaging $100 to · $200 a year for typical families who 
heat with natural gas. 

Deregulation supporters concede 
gas prices will increase, but say it 
will be closer to $20 a year for the 
average family. 

Natural gas prices will be 

~ &n41/Jf}~ ~@ 
allowed to rise by about 10 percent annually until1985 when price lids will be removed from most natural gas. In the meantime, price controls will be extended for the first time to intrastate gas. 
'Tied House' results in Pennsylvania 

HARRISBURG Pa. [AP]--Con­trol of Pennsylvania's 203-member House of Representatives may be dicided b y a lottery after Demo­crats and Republicans each won 101 seats and the pivotal race ended with each candidate getting 8,551 votes. 
"It seemed almost impossible to happen," said Donald Moul, the Republican challenger in the dis­puted race in a largely rural area of '>Outh-central Pennsylvania. "It makes me feel very humble." 
If a recount still shows a tie, tvfoul and incumbent Kenneth Cole ·..•ill pull a number out of a bag, with the winner being the man who picks the lowest number. 
"It's the only remedy in the Election Code," said Luis Mete, director of the state election bur­eau. 
But other political observers figure that the eventual outcome will be a court challenge, which conceivably could drag on for months or even years. 
In fact, a state Senate seat remained vacant for two years last 

~  NEED ALIFT..i••J  
**i  FtidQy  Jim SPEIER & COmPANY (9:30-??)  **i  
:  (Folk rock at its best)  :  
*i  SQtutdQ.Y  DOUG STRINGER  (9:30-??)  *i  
:  (Acoustic guitar)  ·:  

I, 'Jlfffrn~ GET ARISE AT THE NAZZ II 
•••***************************************************************************************~ 

I? a ~ard-fought c~ntest, Hc•l~ Crn~ ... Wd!. defeated by St. Ed's, 8-0. Shown here, the Ho s1dehnes watches mtently d' ( "·" h Oolwrty [in baseball cap] plots his next mo [ h t bg
bob Gill] ve. P o 0 Y 


Sweet shop tradition lives 
COLUMBUS, IN [AP[ • Lewie i":aharako relishes the old days, when friendships and romances were nurtured over a shared ice cream soda at the neighborhood sweet shop. 
To sustain that 1890's tradition, he and his brother, Manuel, have served up a piece of the American past to generations who have grown to believe that ice cream comes in 31 flavors and lemonade comes from a can. 
"To a lot of people., it's like an institution," said the 61-year-old partner in Zaharako's Confection­ary. "It brings a lot of memories back. They got together in here. They met their sweethearts here." 
Located across from the Colum­bus Commons, the exterior of Zaharako's looks like any small­town store, plain and businesslike. But going inside is like being transported back through time to another era, one more opulent and grandiose. 
The keystone of the operation is two Mexican onyx soda foun­tains purchased in 1905 from the St. Louis World Exposition. Be­hind them is a SO-foot marble and mahogany bar fitted with stained glass, mirrors and glass lamps to illuminate the menu. The fountain treats are served on a 40-foot marble counter graced by a Tiffany lamp on an onyx stand. 
Opposite the soda fountain, oak 

panels cover the walls behind the 
display cases that hold:; about 100 
different varieties of candies dur­
ing the Christmas season. An 
elaborately carved oak arch leads to 
the dining area, made to look much 
larger by the mirrors which grace 
the walls. 
"This isn't restored," he said 

proudly. "It's all original." 
The skylights in the metal­patterned ceiling were covered up years ago because "we had to clean them all the time," Lewie recalled. "They always looked dirty." 
In the rear of the shop is a 

massive, full-concert German pipe 
organ. Occasionally, Lewie cranks 
it up to give patrons a taste of gay 
nineties music. It leaps to life with 
a crash of cymbals, trumpets, 
drums and a tootle of a flute. 
"That's the only trouble with it­

it's loud. People don't like that. 
They can't talk," he confided. 
"I used to work on it, but it's too nerve-wracking. You take it apart and it won't work. Sometimes I feel like taking an ax to it. But now I don't mess with it," he said. 
The confectionary was estab­lished by the current owners' grandfather, who ran a general store and tailor shop in Sparta, Greece. The family came to America before the turn of the century and settled in New York. 
After the family moved to this southern Indiana community, Grandfather Zaharako and his three sons opened a candy business that was expanded to include fountain service. In 1931, son James purchased the store and later passed it on to his five sons. The operation now rests with two of them -Lewie and Manuel. 
"I've been working here -and so has my brother Manuel -since we were nine years old,'' Lewie said. "The first job I did was open the door for customers. I used to wash dishes and bus tables, too." 
Now Lewie handles most of the bookwork and the ordering while Manuel does most of the cooking. 
"We don't serve hot meals. We just serve sandwiches, chili and potato soup. We're famous for our chili and potato soup," Lewie said. "We make fresh lemonade and orangeade. We always use fresh fruit. You can't find that anywhere else in the country." 
Their culinary repertoire also includes an assortment of fountain treats, using their rich, homemade ice cream as a base. 
"We've been making it since 1900. Right now, we only make vanilla, chocolate, caramel and strawberry," he said. "We used to make special ice cream. But you'd run it for awhile and you'd make another flavor and the first thing you know, somebody will ask for the first one. So now, we just have standard flavors.'' 
In addition to ice cream, the brothers still make their own fountain syrups, including choclate sauce that is cooked in a large copper kettle. 
"Our fixtures might be old, but when it comes to our equipment, it's the finest we can buy," Lewie said. 
Above all else, quality is impor­tant to the Zaharakos. 
"Ifwe can improve any product, we will," he said. "We won't cheapen it. We'll raise our prices before we cheapen it." 
For the brothers, the day starts around 8 a.m., when they come to the shop to start the food prepara­tion. The doors open around 10 
a.m. and close around 5 p.m. The shop is closed on Sunday. 
"Years ago, we used to be open to one or two in the morning. All this has changed. Nobody comes downtown anymore," he explain­ed. "The simple reason is people live scattered out, they have shop­ping centers. They say, 'Why come downtown?'" 
The Zaharakos have g1ven them a reason at Christmas, when the confectionary is ablaze in lights and holiday ornaments. 
"We have every inch of the place decorated. I used to do it myself. It was my own design," Lewie said. "It takes a few days to put it up. People look forward to it every Christmas." 
As Lewie surveyed his shop, a younster noisily sturped the last bit of orangeade from a paper straw. His father waited on the counter stool beside him. 
"I started coming here when I was a little boy," recalled Phillip Miller. "For us, Zaharakos is the place." 

~~dav, Novem:.::b~e::..r....:1.::.0:_.1:..:!:::.:..7.::.S_____.~tuh.&JaliL.Jo_bUii&Uia..rv~..S.~a..rL...-_..2....1L 
I -;. 

Porno king captured 
[continued from page 3] one-half year sentence for arson 
conspiracy_ and interstate transpor­
tation of obscene materials when 
he slipped out the unlocked side 
door of the jail in New Albany, 
Ind., where he was being held 
while testifying in a civil suit in 
Louisville, Ky. 
Newspaper reports said then that although federal authorities had considered Thevis an escape risk, he was allowed unlimited tele­phone calls and at least one unsupervised trip outside the jail. A grand jury report said he was given opportunities for sexual rela­tions with his girlfriend, Patricia McLean. 
Ms. McLean has been charged with aiding Thevis' escape. Her trial was scheduled to begin this week in Atlanta, but was postponed and ordered moved out of Georgia because of widespread publicity about the slaying of a key witness against Thevis, Roger Dean Under­hill. 
Underhill, described by prosecu­tors as "extremely instrumental" in the charges pending against Thevis, was gunned down last month in broad daylight while showing some north Atlanta pro­perty to a prospective buyer. 
Thevis was indicted by a federal grand jury in Atlanta on charges of arson, murder and extortion in the building of his pornography empire and the slayings of two former 
subordinates turned rivals. , The racketeering indictment 1charges that on Sept. 10, 1973, 
Thevis discussed with Leon Wal­
ters killing James Mayes, an 
Atlanta peep show operator who 
competed with Thevis, and that 
Walters was given a sum of money. 
Mayes was killed Sept. 13, 1973, 
when a bomb exploded in his van 
as he started to leave his business.. 
Thevis was charged with murder 
in the shooting death of Kenneth 
"Jap" Hanna, whose body was 
found in the trunk of a car at the 
Atlanta airport in November 1970. 
Ten other individuals and corpora­
tions were named in the federal 
indictment, which specified alleged 
acts of arson in Fayetteville, N.C., 
and louisville, extortion of a porno­
graphy distributor in Houston, 
arson and mail fraud in Atlanta, 
and attempts to kill a government 
witness--Underhill. 
Need a short term loan? 
Students who need short term loans hould inquire at the Mor­rissey Loan Fund in the basement of LaFortune. The fund is open Monday through Friday from 11:30 
a.m. to 12:30 p.m. Persons may borrow up to $150 with one day's notice. The interest rate is a nominal one percent and the loan is due in 30 days. 


2934 E. mcKI-nle.Y 
1725 N. Ironwood 1426 mlah. ave 4401 S. michigan St., S. Bend 


r------------.~--~----------------------------~----------.------.-------------------~---­



\ 

.th~, observer Friday, November 10, 1978 
-~ I 

.., .............. 


Notre Dame Student Union and the Student Players present: 
tJ\3"'
~Good ,,, ~ ~'( ou' te \" e eto'l4".




cnat' 

Nov. 9, 10, 11 at 8:00 pm. 
Nov. 12 at 2 pm. 
Washington Hall 
Admission: s1oo 
.. 


Betting chances remain cloudy 
INDIANAPOLIS [AP]-Despite approval by Madison County voters, the chances of pari-mutual betting on horse races in central Indiana remain cloudy. 
Even if a track is to be built, developers now say they might ignore Madison County vote and try to locate it in Indianapolis, which would delay further plans at least a year. 
_ Tuesday's voting left only one legal obstacle to pari-mutuel a decision by the Indiana Supreme Court on whether the 1977 law allowing on-track betting is consti­tutional in Indiana. A lower-court judge ruled last year that betting on horse races is a form of a state lottery,which is expressly prohibi­ted by the state Constitution. 
Madison County voters approved pari-mutuel by slightly less than 2,000 votes. However, an identical 
Harriers ready 
[continued from page 24; what could be their last race as Notre Dame harriers. Sophomore standout Pat Sullivan, who has been the top Notre Dame finisher in every meet to date must produce 
another  outstanding  showing.  
Senior Joe Strohman  and sopho­ 
more  Chuck  Aragon,  two  of the  

most consistent runners on the team, also will be counted on for strong performances. Tony Hatherly and Chris Lattig, a couple of fine freshmen, round out the top seven for the Irish. 
Piane summed up his team's feelings heading into the biggest meet of the year: "We're looking forward to the district meet be­
I cause we're healthier now than we've been all season. It will be the first time that we've had our top seven runners in a meet. This is the best team we've ever taken to the districts, and I think this is the year we can do it." 
referendum was defeated by more than a 2-1 margin in neighboring Hamilt!>n County, where develop­ers had hoped to build a track near the Indianapolis suburb of Carmel. 
"Hamilton County was our first choice," said Michael Haase, spokesman for Hoosier Horse In­dustries, Inc., the most prominent group wanting to build a track. "Any further work will depend on the Supreme Court ruling." 
IF the law is upheld, Haase said, the group then probably would begin feasibility studies on sites in Madison and Marion counties. 
Although Madison County now is 


collegiate crossword 
46 Lupino and Cantor 10 Dye ingredient
ACROSS 

48 Woodturning machine 11 Dangerous ones 1 Jet----49 Sound amplifier 12 Car accessory 7 Goes away 50 Covered with 14 Discharge 
13 Dobie Gillis's girl-hoarfrost 15 Town---­
friend, et al. 52 -----neck shirt 20 Pastures 15 Small crown 53 Pioneer in mental 23 Waterway 16 Senior citizen, health 24 Aficionado 
usually 54 Varnish ingredient 27 Senator Jackson 17 Dance performance 56 Do car work 28 Last ---­18 Formation 58 Oscar ----31 On the ---­19 Roman 151 59----box, in 33----Harbor, Maine 21 ----system psychology 35 Flirtatious fellows 22 Polynesian warriors 60 U.S. industrialist, 36 Math symbol23 Statement of Samuel ----37 California city or 
faith 61 Av~ricious shaded walk 
25 College in Houston 38 Stringed instrument 26 Telephone-dial trio DOWN of old 27 Actress Norma ----39 Stupid29 ----Synephrine 1 Layers 40 Compared30 Gulf-state food 2 Richard Burton film 41 Former Senator 
fishes (2 wds.) Fong, et al. 32 Jazz instrument 3 Frantic scramble 43 Poe's bird 34 First-rate (2 wds.) 45 Dieter's food 35 Baseball's Manny 4 Inventor Howe 47 What to do with a 
5 Breezy new watch (2 wds.) 36 Actor Navarro 6 The ever-popular 49 Creator of 38 Gridiron play ----Busch Winnie-the-Pooh 41 Comedy producer 7 Oriental actor 51 Measure of medicin~ 
----Roach Jack ----53 Poker hand 42 Reads 8 Technical name for 55 And not 44 Editor's insertion the shank 57 Record of heart 
in a quote 9 Helicopter part activity 
THE RAMROD 
START THE WEEKEND A LITTLE EARLIER WITH US! 
PITCHERS ONLY $1.50 Drafts 25$ 
pool table live rock and country pinball western music on weekends dance floor 
Come on in-There's no cover charge The Ramrod 511 s. Michigan st. 
open till 3am 
(downtown) 
289-4709 

only one in the state to have approved pari-Mutuel, Marion County remains a possibility be­cause the Indianapolis municipal election next year will be county­wide under a combined city-county government. By law, a pari-mutuel referencum must be countywide, and all other counties in the state would have to either wait unil 1980 or hold a costly special election. 
The Madison County Council put pari-mutuel on Tuesday's ballot in hopes that the Anderson area would be the first alternate site if Hamilton County voters defeated the referendum. 



--------------------------------Friday, November 10, 1978 the observer 
Dear me, --­



ww,23 

I ------------------------------------­
I NOTICES Need 2 GA Tennessee tickets. Call Val WANTED: St~dent tix for Tennessee Women! II Do you feel your tDttons are If my personals bother you so much -II 277-3076 after 5 p.m. or 1234 during the game. Call Diane at 4685. limited? Join us In dlscuuing fuues and won't write any more. 1 would have
I
1 MORRISSEY LOAN FUND day. alternatives In the Women's Role Aware-appreciated you coming to me directly, · 
I Help! Help! Help! Desperately need 2 ness Worbhop. Call the Counseling rather than babbling your complaints to IStudent loans $2o-$150 1 percent Interest Need 2 GA Tennessee tickets. Ca.ll Bid, GATennessee tix. CAll Jean at 8037. Center, 283-1717 for Information and the general public, but that's OK. I'm due In 30 days, LaFortune basement Bud or Bod at 41-4276. Need GA tickets for Tennessee. Call registration. sorry If I upset yout. I tried to use the
I11:30-12:30 M-F 2 personals to thank my staff and other1 Help me gat home. Need ride to Florida J.B. at 1161. Humorists Anonymous is still open to creative pursuits. Henceforth, 1will usa 
ITYPist will do typing, neat and accurate, / ~~~=ga:rah::~·glac\~:f ve ~a~·K~n Need 3 GA Tennessee tlx. Call Rick N0-SMC community. We want you if you personals only to thank my staff.
Ireasonable rates. Call 287-5162. 1 j are an assassin, brooding bigot, petulant Scoop 
. 1194. . 234-1765. primadonnaoradamngoodsatlrist. Call P.S. My name Is Tim I Planning awedding or dance? Music for Genghls Khan at 3748 for an irreslstably
that spacial occasion. The Dennis Need one GA or student ticket for Guess you didn't see my ad yesterday. enlightening conversation. OK boys, that's enough.II Bamber Quartet. 272-8266. Tennassaagama. Please call Kathy8151. Still need 2 GA Tenn. tix.for my Dad and
1 uncle. Give me a break. Call John at Peggy McDaneil's Birthday is Friday. Dear Peggy, 
I Experienced typist will do typing in own Need 4 GA Southern Cal tickets. Call 3507. Call 41-5236 and wish her a happy one. Happy Birthday!!! home. Call272-1401. John at 1991. -----------Steve 
I Need 2 GA Tenn tix. Call Tim 1064. MEETING: Tonite-in back of St. 
I ATTENTION Notre Dame-Saint Mary's Desperately need 4 GA tickets for Joseph's Lake of ADDICT (Attack Disco Dear Peggy,I Community Tennessee. CAll Jeff 1479. I need 2 GA Tenn Tickets. Call 8937. Dogs-Infiltrate Communist Tubs) Group. Hope you have a happy 20th! Topic: How to end Disco ads In The Wall love, Kathy
1Tennessee tickets needed to help take 
Need 2or 4Tennessee tix, Call Tim 8821. I need 1 student ticket for Tennessee. Stre~t Journal. Be there or be RED!
1mentally handicapped and disadvanted Need 2 GA's also. Call John 8549.
children and adults to a football game.
I Help give someone a the of Need 12 Tennessee tickets. Last chance MANDATORY MEETING for all adver­THE FIRST "GEEK" NORTON QUOTE
thrill a 

OF THE WEEK IS: "MY DAD
to entertain family here. Graduating Big bucks for 2GA tickets for Tennessee. tising layout people on Tuesday Nov.
lllfetime! Tickets will be collected at 
DOESN'T MAKE FUN OF ME."
senior. Call Ray 289-8657. Call Brian 1791. 14th. Short meatllng starting at 7:110 pm.
I dinner in the dining halls and in the1dorms. Off campus students may drop Marky,
Desperately need 2 Tennessee tickets. Alumnus Dad visits weekend of Tennes­The 911 Club is now accepting all
Ioff tickets at Student Activities. Happy 21st Birthday!!! Wish 1 was
Call Ron 3388. see game. Must see his Irish play. Need applications from young ladies In the there.
1ticket. Please help -if not for the sake N0-SMC community who desire escorts
I Gay students of Notre Dame/Saint 
Desperately need 2 GA or student tickets of the gipper and dear ol' dad -do it for to the Grace Hall formal and correspond­I love you, BrenI Mary's Gay Information. Call 8870. 
to Tenn. Call Eric 1384. the top$. Call Lolli 289-4514. ing festivities. This is afree service with
1Friday November 10 10:00-12:00 p.m. Congrats to Phyllu Washington of Lewis
no obligations. Available spaces are
ISaturday November 1110:00-12:00 p.m. Hall, the first winner of Ms. Gorgoslty
Help family reunion. Need 2 Tennessee Need 4 GA Tennessee tix. Call Mike limited so call NOW at 1771. We promise
I Or write P.O. Box 206, Notre Dame, Ind. contest. Truly a beauty to behold.
GA tickets. Cal1514. 3003, Sandy 41-5271 . to make the evening of November 18th an enjoyable one. Don't delay-call today!
IAttention All Logan Volunteers and Need GA basketball tickets to NO-USSR Need GA tickets for Tennessee. Call Are you wicked? Do you prefer lemons toIInterested Students: game. Call 8432. 8432. Hanley, cherries? Take vacations in Afghanistan?
1Volunteers are needed ,to help take Despise convention and formality?
Get wasted legally, you're finally 21 ­
I Notree Dame's bigpest fans to the Humorists Anonymous needs a few good
I need Tenn. tickets. Call1623. Need 1or 2Tix for Tenn. GA or student. that means have three beers.
Tennessee game! T1me -10:30 a.m. ­people. Call al Pacino 3748.
Call Blll1689. Happy Birthday, Marty­
5:00 p.m. We will start the day with a 
Do you have 2student or GA's for Tenn? Tompicnic-pep rally and then head over to the God love The Adonis
Call Kathy 41-5132. Desperately need 4 GA tickets forgame. For more info call -Mike 1371 or 
Russian B-ball game. Cal Tom at 3283. Joe Joyce:
Sue 4832. 
Need 5 Tennessee GA's, Call Jerry 8446. You "blast" my "past" like no one The Blue Oyster boy's birthday is 
tomorrow!
Need 4 GA tix fol' Tennessee$ Call Chris ever has. Need GA Tennessee tickets. Call Jim 8335.
FOR RENT All dirty word scrabble players met In 220

1234 or 277-1113. Tim Neely,I need any no. of Georgia Tech tlx. Cal You smooth, sly little devil, you. You 
Fisher tomorrow.
Hours for rent, 79 Spring semester. 

Need 2-4 tickets to ND-Russia basketball Hugh 234-1969. are the climax of my life.
2-3 bedrooms, located 18401 Eugene St. 
M. Bedics is an excitable boy!?
game. Ed, 2253. love always,
near campus. $290 plus utilities per mo. 
Will do bachelor laundry, very reason­Kath
Call 8367. 
Call 1962 and give M. Bedics an obscene phone call.
Need 2 GA Tennessee tickets. Call Ed, able. Close to campus. Call from 9am to 
2253. 5 pm. 234-7528. All maligned students:2 br house, stove and ref. $225 month 
Let's eat the Ad. Building.
plus utilities and deposit. 914 N. Notre 
The members of section 4-C, Grace Hall
Desperate SMC chick! Will do anything SEX! Now that I have your attention, I Melvin
Dame Ave. 234-7670. . 
are petitioning the Administration to game. Call Casey 8421. Barry Briggs: 
for Tenn. tix. Call 41-5488. need two student tickets to Tennessee name the new sidewalk from Grace to the North Dining Hall the Charlie Burke
Am looking for 2 GA Tennessee tix...WIII How's the #1 cadet at the Academy?
LOST AND FOUND Memorial Walkway.

pay reasonable price! John 1786. Need 4 tix to Tennessee. Call Joe ARe you the #1 varsity goalie yet? See 2119-4313. you soorr, babe!
LOST: pair of rust clogs by NO Ave., 
Gee, Kathy and I really need a ride tocemeteries Saturday night, please call vicinity for Thanksgiving break -Call Need 2 GA Tenn tix. Call 3489, ask for Falcolhlane PittsburQh for Thanksgiving break. We'll
Desperate girl needs ride to Jersey or .love, 
SMC-4648. 
share dnving, expenses, and scintillating
7674. Ed. 
conversation. If you can give one or bothPuppy, glad you're here. Learn any newFOUND: Room key Friday night at Blues of us a ride, call Beth at 8152.
Desperate: Need 2 GA Tennessee tlx. Need one student ticket for Tennessee. tricks?
Festival. Call 2126 and Identify. 
Please call John at 3507. Call Mike at 7838. love, M.B. 
To our 'favorite vultures,LOST: Pair of brown plastic frame You wouldn't throw up on Mike Rouse,
Need 3 GA tickets for Tennessee. Call STAFF: 2 GA Russian's BB tickets. I'll "Make 10 stops or die trying", today at
glasses in soft leather case. Call Tim wold you?
I 232-0550. Beth 41-4148. make you a good deal -3087. 2:00 pm, Sr. Suicide stomp. Tix and 
love,

maps, call 288-6449. 
The dean and his friend from OmahaDesperately need four Tennessee tickets
ILOST: Outside Lyons Arch -gold heart FOR SALE: GA Notre Dame Basketball 
Call Larry 2890-6169. -FREE KISSES!
1shaped ring with initials SM. Sentimen­tix. 2 for each game. Best offer Call To: Kate, Kathy, Kathleen
ltal value, Call Shaun 7965. 1159. Julie Bartley is proud to announce that All you have this
of combined made
Part-time people needed to sell advertis­she wil be distributing free kisses in 
...
Ing out of regional offices of nationwide honor of her twentieth birthday on semester one "hey" of a good time.
I LOST: SMC class ring Initials MEB 80, if KNUTE.ROCKNE-The original1940 Lux 
publishing firm. Entry level position. Sunday. Line forms outside 104 Lyons! Happy Birthday. Enjoy a twlnkle-ty
I found, please call, Marilyn 41-4088. Radio Theater production starring Pat Twenty.
Cal Mr. Ford 272-3171. 0'Brien and Ronald Reagan now avail­Supervisors: Brinx, Frankie, and Finns Maria (ah please)
IFOUND: One men's watch found on Oct. able on tape cassette. Relive the 
31. Call John at 7771 to claim. HELP ME PLEASE grandeur of Notre Dame's greatest Wim: WELCOME
1 Need 4-10 GA Tennessee tix. Call Phil legend. Send $5.98 to Little Shop on the Happy birthday voluptch!!! Glad you'r 
Reverend McCarthy and his altar boys
I LOST: Black totes umbrella. South 8504. Prairie. P.O. Box 132, Minot, N. Dakota "BACK IN THE STATES!!" to cele­R.P.M. jr. an J.D.M.
1cafeteria monday afternoon. Call Jim 58701. Satisfaction guaranteed._ brate! love, Sister MGM
Need 4 GA tickets for Tennessee. Call love, aduckie11627. • Jack 1775 or 1850. 
Casperson's Book Shop open Wed., Sat., 
Bunny,

I LOST: A gold 1976 Cave Spring High Sun. 9-7. 50,000 used books. A general Got your ticket for Pat Paulsen yet? Get You outdid yourself on the 4th.
Need Tennessee GA tix. Call Jerry 3795. shop. 1303 Buchanan Road, Niles, them now.
I School Class Ring. Blue sapphire stone Love 113 (CSM)1with gold inlaid C.S. Name on inside of 683-2888.
PLEASE! Need tix for Tenn. & USC GET SMALL at the Beaux Arts Ball,
1band. Reward. Call Dan at 1864. Breaker 19 for Gandy Dancer. This is the
$$$within reason. Mick 1763. Xmas ahead. Sansul Receiver, $300, tonight at 9 at the Arkie Building. 
pink lady. you share 
I LOST: Gold Selko watch lost on Saint Kenwood table, $80, Genesis speakers, Everyone invited. Bring a small friend. Are willing to 
expenses to Exit 11 for Thanksgiving?
Mary's campus November 5. If found Playscapes, a creative play canter at $250, Best offer will be accepted. Call 
please call 41-4796. Scottsdale Mall, now hiring part-time Mike 288-3095. To Aleta F. in Walsh, Call4489. 
Katie Reward 

mala and female students. Must enjoy Give Rich K (your secret admirer fromoffered. 
Michelle P.E. O'Haren
children. Flexible hours. Apply No. 11 FOR SALE: 2 GA season B'Ball tickets Holy Cross) a birthday treat. Fulfill his Happy first anniversary. Luv you.
LOST: HP-27 calculator in 204 O'Shag, 12~ p.m. at Playscapes behind Rathskal­for best offer. Call 1159. fantasy and tickle his fancy-give him a lar on second level. call at 3105. 
Michael R.

Thurs. (11-9) please ca111059, 
Need to sell: 1 Russian basketball ticket, Concerned Friends 
ATTN: ALLLOYALOBUD .
FOUND: A calculator by O'Shaughnessy Desperately need many GA Tenn. tickets 2 Tenn. football tickets, and 2 12th row 
Our t-shirts are finally In,
Call Mike 1146. Sorry folks, but .Zelda Ray's grand so get your
Hall. Call to Identify. Jayne -7961. floor Foreigner tickets. Cal 1391. 
silver together and buy one. Cost-$3.75.
opening Is postponed til next Friday. Be TennGAtix: Heyy'all! Need4ormore­MIDWEST BLUEST-SHIRTS there, aloha! 
Pick them up today from 2:30 to 3:30 in $$-7607. 
the office.
If you didn't ~et a Festival shirt, now's WANTED the time! Prmted front and back on e Dear John, 
Katie: You left your shotglass and some Please come by 
' Need 2GA or student Tennessee tickets. $5.00 post paid. Send cash, check, or After 1 year I'm still dreaming about of your clothes in 1102.
Need two GA tickets for Tenn. Call Call John 1785. money order to: "Big Mac' attacks-I hope I never stop! 
(for them).
Kathy 41-5293. Timi Graphics Happy 1 year!Need 3 GA tix for Tenn. Call Eric 1766 
The GAng

902 N. Division love always,
Need ride to Pittsburg weekend of Nov. anytirn.e. Mishawaka, lnd 46544 Mary17the. Call 41-4721. P.S. Here's lookin' at ya, sweetheart. · Top ·o· the morning to all our friends at
or Call 259-8822.

Desperately need Tenn student tlx. Call SMC and NO. Mis you all. HELP WANTED: Part-time waitresses Mike 4611 .. Hey Poindexter, Duffer and Mary Franco's Rlstorante, Close to campus, PERSONALS So your retainer has apurple hue. And 
call Danny at 287-5344. WHAT's MONEY? I need 3 GA's for who clued you in? To the 8-pack, Cindy, Mar, SUe, & the Tenn. Call Nick 3338. Robbie-bobbie, Suzanna and Anna-Danna Morrissey Gang--l'm miles away but WANTED: GA tix for Tenn. game. Call haven't forgotten you. ' 
First personal of the year. Snowmass 

Janet 41-4796. Full and part-time Waitresses needed at and Thanksgiving with JB? Hmmm. ATTENTION! Beth is thinking of cutting Laureen NICOLA's Italian Restaurant. Nice TAB ·her hair at Thanksgiving. We've got to SMC-ND; ~ NEED: Ride to Buffalo, NY area for atmosphe11, close to campus, good tips. stop her...UNITE! (Pre-med has gone to "we've found a beer called Guinness 
Turkey-Day break. Gall Sue 41-5411. Apply In person between 4:30 and And like to put a lot in us."
Attention -this Is a public apology to her head).midnight Tuesday through Sunday at 809 John Moore and Michel Alexander for the Don The Whole Gang l I Need one student ticket for Tennesse N. Michigan. Experience nacassary. failure of the N D underground newspaper P.S. Wet Puppies? 
game. Will pay mucho bucks. Call Lenny the "Lewis Hall Flash" to provide To the Sisters of Perpetual Scraps: 272-5201. Desperately need one or two Notre Dame adequate coverage as the unsung hero's Desperately needed: One Hot Tuna, Pray for us sinners. Miss you. season basketball tix. Call 4-1-4487. of the NO Rowing Club. complete with canal boats, for Michell Bruce &Bruce Must have 2 GA Tennesse tickets, big the Editor Simon as escort for Lewis Hall SYR-dance 
bucks. Don 3132. Need 6 GA Tennessee, Call Pete 1787. Will pay$$$. Gall Loosey 3812. T-bird and Klutzy Dutzy: Will trade 2 GA Russian for sex with a Who's been sleeping In your beds? Need 2 Tennessee tickets, Joe 8200. WANTED: 2 or 4 GA tickets for any beautiful girl and-or $$$ 3087. Jay, Mike, Tom, Kevin, Joe-Driftwood home football game. Call Mike 7838. The girls win due to unsportsmanlikeOVERSEAS JOBS -Summer/full time. JOHN PHILLIPS-Happy 19th from your conduct on your part and especially on 
Europe, S. America, Australia, Asia, etc. Desperately need four GA tix to Tenn. 
stoney buddies In Colorado. Check your that of your captain.
All fields, $500-1200 monthly, expenses Call Mary 6850. 822Adams
mall for a surprise.

paid, sightseeing. Free infor.-Write: 
Mark and Meg.

International Job Center, Box 4490-14, I need 1 GA ticket for the Tennessee BEAUX ARTS BALLI Berkeley, CA 94704. game and 2 tickets for the Russian Lou Paglay Fan Club initiation: Giu­Get small tonight.
Basketball game. Pleas call Jeff at 1000. 
seppe's Friday night. Dues: three triple

Need 3 GA or student tickets for Wendy burgers. Dear Secret Admirer,Tennessee game. Call Laura. 277-3076. Need one student TN ticket. Cll 3848 I want your body. Check memo board after 10 pm. for details. 

love, the girl with the golden voice 
L-~~-----~----------------------------­---------~ ------~--~~~-~~--~ 
I 
1 
~ 
1I 
j l 
I 

... 
leers take on top ranked GoPhers 
by Brian BeaJane Sports Writer 
Enjoying its best start in six 
years, the Notre Dame hockey team 
faces what could be its biggest test 
of the season tonight and Saturday 
when it takes on WCHA preseason 
favorite Minnesota at the Williams 
Arena in Minneapolis. The Irish 
sport a 2-l-1 record heading into 
tonight's game, trailing the 
Gophers by one point in the 
WCHA. 
Minnesota returns experienced players at almost every position, giving coach Herb Brooks the most confidence he has ever had in a Gopher team. Add the speed of their forwards to thesize of the Williams rink and you can see why Notre Dame coach Lefty Smith feels this series will be a big challenge for the Irish. 
"Playing a team as experienced as Minnesota at its rink will prove to be quite a challenge for a team as young as ours," says the 10-year coach of the Irish icers. "They have great forwards and their speed will be hard to control on a rink as big as theirs. 

'"'That's not to say we do not have good legs also, however, and I think we should be able to hold our own. Our young players have been performing in outstanding fashion so far and although it will be tough, I am not conceding anything to them." 
But Brooks feels his Gophers should contend for the top spot in the nation as well as the WCHA. 
"I honestly can't remember feel­ing more confident about a sea­son," enthuses the sixth-year coach. "Looking at our potential this year I have to say that with concentrated effort, a healthy season and our fair share of the breaks, we could win it all." 
The Gophers take a 3-1-0 record against the Irish, having swept WCHA dweller Michigan State last weekend 6-4 and 6-5 (overtime). Minnesota centers Steve Christoff and Eric Strobel notched hat tricks the opening weekend when it split with Wisconsin and are joined up fron by Rob McClanahan, Neil Broten and Don Micheletti. 
On defense Minnesota returns veterans Bill Baker (top scoring defenseman 'in the WCHA after 
Phelps to answer questions 
"Speaking of Sports" on WSND (6400) AM will feature Digger Phelps as a special guest this Sunday. The call-in program will begin at 8 p.m. instead of the usuall 9 p.m. airing. The first drawing for the "Basketball Bon­anza" will also take place on this show. Callers are encouraged. 
WSND will also carry the NO­USSR basketball game tonight at the ACC. Lou Severino and Paul Stauder will begin the play-by-play at 8:30. 

The "Beat Tennessee" Pep Rally will be this Friday at 7:00 in Stepan Center, immediately follow­ing the Senior Death March. Speakers will include Jay Case, Kris Haines, Jerome Heavens, Jeff Weston, and Col. Stephens. 
*Observer 







Sports 

They'll never die... 
by Frank Brown AP Sports Writer 
Pictures of empty lockers: the freshly laundered jerseys hanging, 
awaiting Bobby Orr and Bobby Hull, who never will wear them on the ice 
again. Years of greatness, days of agonized introspection; then finally, 
retirement for two of the finest players in hocky history. 
You know the numbers--the goals, assists and championships. You know 
the trophies and honors that would fill a rink-sized room for each. You 
know the legends their feats have inspired. 
And now you know that in less than a week, the pleasures of watching 
them play has been taken away aby opponents no athlete can beat: time 
and pain. 
Thousands have made the major leagues, enjoyed their careers, and 
hung up their skates without leaving the sense of loss students of the 
game feel now. These two helped teach us the beauty of hockey expertly 
displayed and gave us nourishing doses of the talent which shows itself so 
rarely now in these days of expansion. 
And they showed us that loyalty is a little fish swallowed by the shark of 
big business. 
Hull, it has been said, didn't want to leave the Chicago Black Hawks six seasons ago. But the reward Chicago ofered for 15 years of gallant service was not enough; the money was in Winnipeg, where the World Hockey Association's fortunes rested on the credibility gained with the signing of one of such stature. 
Dollars don't salve bitterness. Dollars didn't make Hull come back to hockey when he staged his own one-game srrikc against the violence that had ruined the game for him three years ago. Hull g~ve it another shot because hockey deserved it and he deserved it, and the fans were better off as a result. 
Orr, it is known, didn't want to leave the Boston Bruins two seasons ago. But money again was an issue. 
And he left. After those wonderful years in Boston, he left the city he loved with some bitterness in his heart. He signed to play in Chicago--the city that had starved for a hockey attraction since Hull got fed up and left. 
Both did what they could in the time they had left, but Orr's ruined knee refused to stand stress, and the trauma of a divorce was too much distraction for Hull to play full attention to hockey. 
So two men who never cheated the ticket buyers have moved on. They haven:t died--so many people speak of them in the past tense, as though they had--but they've left us a marvelous legacy of memories. 
four games with eight points), Mike Greeder and Joe Baker in front of goalies Steve Janaszak and Jim Jetland. Jetland will be one of the goalies playing for the U.S. National Junior team at the World Junior Ice Hockey Championships Dec. 27-Jan. 3 in Sweden. Notre Dame will be confronting a team with experienced depth throughout most of the lineup. 
Although the Irish may be out­weighed by the Gophers in experi­ence, they are not in talent and will have to use every bit of it this weekend. The hottest line for Notre Dame right now is the second team of center Tom Michalek and wings Kevin Humphreys and Jeff Logan. The trio has notched 27 points in its last three games and twice this year has scored two goals in a span of eight seconds. 
"I could hardly be more pleased with the play of Michalek's line," offers Smith. "They brought us back from what appeared to be a loss to a tie against Colorado and provided us with a spark in the second period Saturday versus Denver. They are very hot." 
Micha1ek scored three goals and assisted on the same number last weekend to remain the leading scorer in the WCHA with 12 points. 
He was named WCHA player of the week for his effort and remains two points ahead of Steve Christoff in the scoring column. 
The Irish will have key defense­man Scott Cameron back in the lineup for the series against the Gophers. He injured his shoulder in the season opener against Colo­rado and was forced to sit out the last three games. 

Notre Dame will be home the next two weeks against Michigan Irish captain Steve Schneider will lead the hockey team in their State and Michigan. toughest match to dat agaihst Minnesota this weekend. 

Harriers ready for districts 
Crewers boast impressive results 
by Ray O'Brien Sports_Editor 
The Notre Dame crew club will 
be traveling to West Lafayette on 
the Wabash River this Saturday to 
take on arch rival Purdue in their 
biggest dual race of the season. 
The Irish crewers are in the midst 
of another strong season. 
Earlier in the season the Crew 
Club traveled to Boston to take part 
in ''The Head of the Charles 
Race," the most elite crew race for 
college teams. The race, the 
largest single day regatta in the 
world, boasted 2,300 competitors 
and a field of over 100,000 specta­
tors. 

The annual event included the top crew teams in the east and midwest regions including Har­vard, Yale, Dartmouth, Princeton and Wisconsin. Notre Dame entered three races including the Elite Eight, the Mixed Eight and the Single Man Scull. 
The team of Paul Devitt, Rob Wettach, Dick O'Malley, Mark Davis, Carl LaFrance, Chris Lyons, Kurt Weber, Sundance Miller, and coxswain Bill McKay finished the three mle course in 16:35, good enough for a 21st place finish out of a field of 40 boats. 
Dartmouth captured first place in the prestigious event backing up their number one ranking in the nation. 
For the Irish, the 21st pllace finish was right in line with the team goals. "We were pretty happy with that finish," explained first seat rower Rob Wettach. "All the other entries that finished ahead of us were varsity teams with paid coaches. We would have placed fifth in the club division." 
The mixed eight team consisting of four males and four females was a new event and drew avid atten­tion. Harvard captured this event while Notre Dame finished in 19th place. 
The Irish's Paul McKevily turned in a respectable ninth place finish in the single man scull race out of a field of 40 racers. 
Notre Dame will enter a NOvice Men and Women team in addition to the Varsity Men's Eight against Purdue. Coach Mike Meenan is looking to avenge last year's loss to the Boilermakers. The race on the Wabash will be a shorter 2,000 meter event. In dual meets to date the Irish have downed Michigan in all three of these events. 

i 

1 
J 
NOTRE DAME, IN--The Notre Dame cross country team attempts to capture a berth in the NCAA cross country championships Satur­day as it travels to Minneapolis to compete in the NCAA Distric Four meet. All Disi.on I schools from the states of Illinin, Indiana, Michigan, Minnesota and Ohio are eligible to run in the District Four event, however only the top four finishers move on to the NCAA finals on November 20 in Madison, Wise. 
Notre Dame has not reached the finals since 1967 and, in order to do so this time around, the Irish must fend off a tough contingent of Big Ten entries. Wisconsin, this year's Big Ten champ, heads the pack of Big Ten schools. Following close behind the Badgers are Michigan and Indiana, who both defeated Notre Dame earlier in the season. Notre Dame must also contend with Illinois, Minnesota, Eastern and Western Michigan plus Cleveland State. 
The task of qualifying appears to be a difficult one, but hardly an impossible feat for coach Joe Piane's team. "We definitely have the capabilities, but you can never be sure of what will happen," says Piane. The Irish have been coming on of late as evidenced by their second-place finish in the Big State meet and their third-place finish in the Central Collegiate Conference meet. "We have been running much better lately. We have improved in every meet since the Notre Dame Invitational, and I hope that improvement contin­ues," adds Piane. 
Senior co-captains Dennis VanderKraats and Steve Welch once again will lead the Irish in 
[continued on page 22] 



