
---------------~ ~-·-~----·-------,.....~­


server 

an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's 
Thursday, March 16, 1978

Vol XII, No. 104 r·_ t"-: . ~ • -• 
Howard fire rouses three dorms 
Bender app.oints committee to evaluate The Observer 
bv Michael Lewis "The scope of the evaluation will weak and need to be eliminated or Se~ior Staff Reporter include all departments of the tirmed up." He added that the paper. its editorial policy. mana­evaluation would primiarily cover 
Student Body President Dave gerial and decision-making prac­this year's performance. Bender has appointed an Observer tices. organizational structure. and Bender said that he personally Evaluation Committee to "examine financial accountability," he would like the committee to the effectiveness of the paper as a explained. operate on a tight time schedule, 
service to the community." He also stated that the possibly within two weeks. He also 
The committee members committee was formed "not so stated. "I'd like to see the include: Fr. Dave Schlaver. former much to set policy as such, but to committee interview the editorial director of Student Activities and try to clarify" The Observer's board members from this year to now assistant to the Dean of the effectiveness. tind their perceptions of their Business College; Ted Howard, ·Bender said, "Because the paper jobs." president of Holy Cross Haii;Ronald is tinanced primarily by student "It's also important to go over 
Zoroamski. a junior accounting fees, it is necessary that there be tinancial records and accounts. It's major; Anne Thompson, Student an ongoing review to ensure that it students' money that's being the fire which forced them to evacuate their dorms. [Photo by 


Government commissioner for is responsible to the students.'' spent." he added, referring to the Ken McAlpine 1 co-education; Tony Pace, newly The committee, B~nder stated, $6 Observer student fee. elected editor-in--chief of The would make suggestions to The The committee should also hold Observer; and a faculty member to Observer on possible improve­some public forums, he said, "to 

No extended break

be named later. Bender will chair ments, pointing out ''what parts give students a chance to express the committee. are strong, and what parts are their conceptions and perceptions about what The Observer has been 

for Saint Mary's

and what it should be.'' A report would then be compiled by Jean Powley added. by the committee, which would Saint Mary's Editor "Since, however. it is possible
include an evaluation. the percep­
that unexpected events might occur 

tions of the committee members 
Saint Mary's will reopen for during the next few weeks, we have concerning The Observer's effec­

classes on Tuesday, March 28 as installed several toll free telephonetiveness, and suggestons on scheduled, Dr. William A. Hickey, lines which will be in service improvements, according to vice president and dean of faculty, beginning Thursday, March 23. Bender. 
announced in a letter to students This service will provide you with 

Zoroamski commented, "We're 
last night. up to date information on the 

the ones who are basically 
However, because unexpected reopening of school," it concluded. 

subsidizing the paper" and noted problems with Indiana and Michi­The numbers which the college
that the paper should print some gan Electric Company's coal supply advises students to use daily to kind of tinancial statement at least could arise, Saint Mary's students 
avoid any misinformation are once a year. He added that he have been given toll-free telephone 800-342-56 72 for students in believed the paper "did a numbers to call for information on Indiana and 800-348-5154 for 
reasonable job" but said several the College's reopening. students out of state. areas needed improvement. "It appears as though Indiana The announcement was made byAlso commenting was Howard, 
and Michigan Electric Company Hickey because college presidentwho said he was hesitant to judge a presently has a coal supply which John M. Duggan is, at present, in student organization because of the should not reach the 30-day level Rome. 

dual responsibilities involved. until April 16, at the earliest," the Notre Dame's Acting Provist Fr. "Maybe the Observer isn't as 
letter said. Ferdinand L. Brown told the 

responsible as it should be with the "In addition, a tentative agree­Observer that the University has no informa'.ton it has,'' he said, ''but I ment was reached yesterday on the plans to close the week after spring think tney do the best they can." major issues which have separated break. If Saint Mary's is forced to 
"I don't want the evaluation to 
union and company negotiators. close, seme arrangement will be 

be carried out in the atmosphere of 
This event suggests possible made for Saint Mary's students 

a witch hunt. If it's carried out in a settlement of the coal strike within taking classes at Notre Dame, [O:nttinued on page 10] the next several weeks,'' the letter Brown promised. 

by Rosemary Mills Senior Staff ReP.orter 
A tire in the elevator shaft of Howard Hall forced the evacuation of residents early this morning. Howard. Morrissey and Lyons residents were forced to lea,ve their rooms at approximately 3 a.m. because of heavy smoke. 
Although no information has been released, students speculated that the tire accidently started in the elevator shaft. Smoke quickly spread throughout the building. they said, and residents were awakened by alert resident assis­tants and fellow students. "Everyone reacted in an admirable and noble fashion." said Fr. Gorski. Howard Hall rector. 
Most students related that they had been awakened by either the smell of smoke, or someone who yelled or banged on the door of the room. "I had just gone to bed a little while ago," Tim Nickels related. Nickels reported that he woke when he smelled smoke. "I looked at the
l, ..• 
elevator shaft and it was bright
o:\. 
orange. You could see tire pouring 
.•. 
out." he continued. Nickels also reported that everyone was out of the dorm in a short time. 

•. According to one third t1oor student. the Notre Dame Fire Department arrived about 3:35 
Firemen climb to the top floor of Howard Hall to morning in an elevator shaft. fight the blaze which reportedly began early this McAlpine] 
[Photo by Ken 
a.m. The South Bend Fire Department arrived about ten minutes later. 
The smoke spread through the underground steam tunnels to Morrissey and Lyons, according to SR. Kathleen Rossman. rector of Walsh. Students in these halls were also eva.:uated, but were able to return to their rooms by 4 a.m. 
Students rumored that the ftrc became worse after the fire departments arrived. "There weren't any t1ames visible from outside before they arrived." one student remarked. "but since thev got here the t1ames have shot through the roof." 
At approximately 4:30 a.m. students living on the tirst. second and third t1oors of Howard were allowed back to their rooms. There was no estimate of damage. but the rug on the tirst tloor was soaked with water. Firemen were still working on the roof near the shaft. 
During the time they were forced to remain out of the hall. Howard residents milled around in various stages and fashions of dress.· Some went. to campus ministry on 'the ground tloor of Badin H,;!II. while others huddled in groups. Some people discussed the effect their disturbed sleep would have on tests scheduled for 8 a.m. 


r---~r---~-~--------------~------~: 
~. tfaAJ}.M~~t

News Briefs_______ 
-:::-::::::=-===-============================:=: National. 
qynt in critical condition 
ATLANTA •• Hustler magazine owner Larry Flynt's condition is deteriorating because of infection and pneumonia, doctors say. He slipped from serious to critical condition yesterday and doctors at limory University Hospital placed him on a respirator. However, Flynt's vital signs remain stable, a hospital spokesman said. 
UofiO offers humor co.urse. 
DES MOINES, Iowa •• The University of Okoboju offers one course--on humor--and school t-shirts proclaim "In God We Trust--everyone Else Cash." It's all in jest because the school doesn't exist, but state senator Kevin Kelly says it should come under the juristiction of the Iowa Board of Regents anyway. "Its high degree of professionalism could do nothing but add prestige to the Board of Regents." he said. 
Atmospheric possibilities 
South Bend weather. for those who care: Mostly cloudy through 
tonight with a 30 percent chance of snow showers. Decreasing 
cloudiness and cooler tomorrow with a few snow flurries. Highs 
today in the low to mid 30s. Lows tonight in the upper teens. Highs 
tomorrow mid to upper 20s. 
For those who don't care: It was 82 degrees yesterday in Houston, 
70 in Los Angeles. and 80 degrees was the high in Miami, Florida. 
On Campus Today _ __. 
3:30pm 
4 pm 
4:30pm 
5 pm 
7 pm 
7 & 10 pm 
7:30pm 
8:15pm 
friday 
10:10 am 
12:15 
pm 

12:15 
pm 


3 pm 
3:25pm 
8 pm open forum, with wade me cree, solicitor general of the u.s., sponsored by white ctr. at law school, law school lounge. 
seminar, "studies of potential energy transfer," by dr. daniel h. winicur, sponsored by radiation lab, rad. lab. conference rm., public invited. 
seminar, "comparative limnology & ecosystem analysis of carolina bay ponds in south carolina," by rohn schallis, emory univ., sponsored by biology dept , 101 galvin, public invited. 
meeting, sigma xi annual business meeting, all members invited, univ. club. 
lecture, "renaissance bronzes," by william wixom, curator of cleveland museum of art, sponsored by art gallery, nd art gallery. 
film series, "kwaidan," sponsored by college of arts & letters and medieval institute, eng. aud., admission free. 
lecture, "symbols of the passover seder II: elijah; and illuminated manuscripts," by a hoffman, mem. lib. aud. 
faculty recital, beethoven sonatas, by deborah davis-cello & william cerny-piano, sponsored by music dept., crowley music hall. 
lecture, "contemporary american seder liturgies." 
biology travel series, "early cultures of central america," by dr. bernard waldman. 278 galvin. public invited. 
seminar, "man's role in changing patterns of arbovirus infections," by dr. stanley, u of western australia. spon. by dept. of microbiology, 102 galvin sci. ctr. 
art talk/film series, "sol lewitt," spon. by art gallery, art gallery 
seminar, "transient diffusion-reaction applied to the mPasurernent of diffusion reaction & mass transfer coPficients in slurry reactors," by cornelius ivory, prrnceton un iv. spon. by chem. en gr. dept. 269 chem. engr. bldg. 
lions club travelogue, "sweden -a midsummer dream," by ric doughtery. o'laughlin aud. tickets, $2 at door. 
march 18 thru monday, march 27 ·spring break 
saturday  
8am  test. graduate management admission  test.·  engr.  
aud.  
12 noon  trade show, cavalcade of wheels.  ace. (also sunday,  
march 19, 9am to 9 pm.)  
sunday  
2 pm  concert,  tndiana  accordion  assoc.  pnze  winners  
performing  o'laughlin aud. no tickets required  

---__...._,..._... . -,.--­
......----~--_..-----~~ 

Hours to change for break 
The Notre Dame dining halls, 
Huddle, Memorial Library, Rockne 
Memorial and ACC have announ­
ced their hours for next week for 
students who will remain on cam­
pus over break. 
Tomorrow the North Dining Hall 
will close after lunch and the South 
Dining Hall will close aft~ dinner. 
Both dining halls will reopen for 
dinner on Monday, March 27. 
The public cafeteria will be open 
from 9 a.m. to 7 p.m. daily, except 
for Easter Sunday. On Easter it 
will be open from 9 a.m. to 1 p.m. 
and 4 to 7 p.m. 
The Huddle will be closed on Saturday and Sunday, March 18 and 19, and on Good Friday and Easter Sunday. It will be open from 7:30 to 7 p.m. tomorrow and from 8 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. on Monday, March 27. Hours for Monday through Thursday, March 20 to 23 will be 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. The hours will return to normal on Tuesday, March 28. 
The Memorial Library will be open tomorrow and Saturday from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. on the first and second floors, but the tower will be open from 1 to 10 p.m. 
Monday through Thursday , March 20 through 23, and ·on Saturday, March 25, the first two floors of the library will be open from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. and the tower will be open from 8 a.m. to 10 p.m. The library will be closed on Friday and Sunday. March 24 and 26. On Monday. March 27, regular hours will be resumed. 
rlw Ob,t>r\Pr '' publt'hPd Monday throu~-:h I nd,t\ dnd wPek lv dunng tht-'umnwr , .. ~-.on. Pxu•pt dunn~ thf' f'\itlll and v.Kdtton fWrto<h The Olht r\'l'r" publl'hPd b\ '>tudl'nh ot tht• l 'ntvt'r'lt\ ot Notn• llamt• and St M<~r\ ' Collq~P Suh't npt10m 111.1\ ht• purrh,hPd for $20 f>Pr \'l'ilr ($10 ppr '"nu•,tt•r) from 1 ht• (lbwr· Vt'r, flo\ Q. NotrP O.mw lndi,1tM 
4b~Si! St•lond cl<1" '""'<~~•· patd. Notrt• IJ,mw. lndt,lrld 4!>~)!J lhP Ohwrvt•r " d 111PI11bPr ot the A"ut idtt'd f'n•" I\ II r<·productton n~ht' .trt• r""'n ••d 
·---------­


need resumes in a 
hurry? 

rag bond 25 -8.5 x ll only $2.65 203 N. Main Downtown So Bend 289-6977 
SCOTTSDALE MALL FREE!!! 

Soft drink wjth 3 items e TACOS • eA81 TACQ ,. IIIRITOS • TAIAIES 
• 
lNCIILADAS • TACO DOC 

• 
TOSfADOS • lEAl TACO 

• 
IARIEQIE TACO 

• 
SPAIIISI lOT 001 

• 
CIUUBURCER · 




''We carry a line of 
legetarian Foods. 
The Rockne Memorial will be open from 8 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. Monday through Thursday, and from noon to 5:30 p.m., Monday on Friday and Saturday during break. The pool will be open from 2 to 5 p.m., Monday through Satur­day. The Rockne Memorial will be closed Easter Sunday. 
The ACC will be closed this Saturday and Sunday, Good Friday and Easter Sunday. Monday through Thursday, March 20 and 23, it will be open from 8 a.m. to 5 
p.m. on Saturday and Monday, March 25 and 27. 

Beware the Ides of March! 
Night Editor: Marti "Caesar" Hogan Asst. Night Editor: Scoop "Mercutio" Sullivan, Margie "Kate" Brassil layout Staff: Jeff "Shylock" Etoll, Martha "Portia" Fan­ning, Bob "Romeo" Brink Barbara "Bianca" Breiten: stein, Tim "Falstaff" Hamil­ton, Katie "Juliet" Kerwin The Groundlings: John Rooney, Orest Deychakiwski, Vicki Anderson, Ann Titus 
Editorial  Layout:  Mo  "bea­ 
trice" Flynn  
Features Layout:  Reed King  

"Lear", "Anthony" Pace 

,....---HOLY WEE~1SERVICES---~ 
_
I 
9:15a.m. 
10:15 a.m 
12:15 p. m 7:15p.m. 
7:15p.m. 
9:00a.m. 5:00 p.m. 6:00p.m. 
6:00 a.m. 
9:00a.m. 
3:00 p.m. 
9:00a.m. 11 :00 p.m 
9:30 a.m.\ 
Stevenson Typists: Lisa "Ophelia" Di,­Valerio, Gwen "Regan" Cole­man, Stacy "Conerii"Weaver, Katie "Cordelia" Brehl Night Controller: Mardi "Titania" Nevin IDay Editor: Marian "Desde­mona" Ulicny, Bob "Othello" Bernoskie Copy Reader: Ann "Ariel" Cales, Phil "Polonias" Cack­ley Ad layout: The 3 hags Photographer: Ken "Pros­pero" McAlpine Special Projects: Rosemary "Cleopatra" Mills 
SACRED HEAR·r CHURCH _ 
Palm Sunda 
Mass-Celebrant: Rev. Edward Malloy, C.S.C. 
Procession and Mass Celebrant: Rev. Thomas E. Blantz, C.S.C. Mass-Celebrant: Rev. Andrew Ciferni, 0. Praem Vespers 
Wednesday of Holy Week Tenebrae Rev. Chester A. Soleta, C.S.C. 
Holy Thursday 
Morning Prayer 
Mass of the Lord's Supper Celebrant: Rev. William M. Lewers, C.S.C. Night Vigil and Adora-tion 
Good Friday 
Morning Prayer 
Celebration of the Lord's Passion Rev. James T. Burtchaell, C.S.C. 
Holy Saturday 
Morning Prayer 
Easter Vigil Celebrant: Rev. Eugene Gorski, C.S.C. 
Easter Sun 
ass-Celebrant: Rev. John Cimino, 0. Praem. 
10:45 a.m.Mass-Celebrate: Rev. John C. Gerber, C.S.C. 
12:15 p.m. ass-Celebrant: Rev. William Toohey, C.S.C. 
7:15 p.m. Vespers-Celebrant: Rev. John C. Gerber, C.S.C 
NFESSIONS during Holy Week at Sacred Hearl 
Church are at 11:15 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. on Monday, 
Tuesday, and Wednesday. Confessions will be at 7:00 
p. rn. in the Confessional Room on Monday and Tuesday; at B:OO p.m. (after Tenebrae} on Wednesday, and at~ :00 Ip.m. on .Thur~day, Friday, and S~Oil"da . 




c· 
3" 

Israel vows to hold captured land 
JERUSALEM [AP] • Israel said yesterday its land, sea and air forces had completed the takeover of southern Lebanon aimed at establishing a guerrilla-free zone, and vowed to hold the area until it has Arab guarantees the Pales­tinian commandos will never return. 
Prime Minister Menachem Begin told a news conference here that the army ''was not sent into southern Lebanon for the purpose of staying there," and that Israel would seek guarantees that "in all those places ... from which the murderers have been ejected they should not return." 
Witnesses in Lebanon reported Israeli forces had routed Palesti­nians from guerrilla strongholds in the south and rocketed refugee camps as far north as Beirut, killed Palestinians and Lebanese. 
An Israeli military spokesman denied jets attacked civilians in refugee camps. He said they hit ''only military targets of the terrorists." All aircraft returned safely. he said. 
Reports of civilian casualties mounted into the scores. Palestinians claimed they had killed or wounded 300 troops of the Israeli task force. 1 which the guerrillas estimated at more than 
25.000 soldiers. 
The Palestinians and their leftist Lebanese allies are believed to have a southern force of about 
10.000 to 12,000 fighters. 
Egypt and Saudi Arabia called for big power intervention to halt the invasion. The United States and Egypt expressed fears the action would hinder efforts toward Middle East peace, but Begin disagreed. 
A communique issued as columns of troops and tanks plunged across the border just after midnight Tuesday said the attack was not aimed at ''the Arab population, the Lebanese army, or the inter-Arab peacekeeping force but only the terrorists and their helpers." 
"Mopping up operations" 
It called the assault a "mopping­up operation,'' not merely retalia­tion for last Saturday's Palestinian terrorist attack in which 34 Israelis were killed. 
Israel gave no count of its own casualties. 
Palestinian guerrillas said they unleased a massive rocket retalia­tion against the northern Israeli town of Kiryat Shmona. 

Israeli chief of staff Lt. Gen. Mordechai Gur said Israeli ground forces had moved six miles inside Lebanon along the 49-mile-long Israeli frontier. Gur said the operation was aimed at creating a five-mile-deep gurerrilla-free zone along the border. 
Begin did not say with whom Israel hoped to reach agreement to keep guerrillas away from the border, but said he would negotiate with the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO), which claimed responsibility for the attack on Saturday on two buses along the Tel Aviv-Haifs road. Nine of the 11 guerrillas involved were killed. 
Begin. asked if the raid would hamper peace talks, said that if "Egypt seriously wants ne!!otia­tions ... all the events of the past few days will not present a serious obstacle." · 
In Washington, Israeli Ambass­ador Simcha Dinitz met with State Department officials for 90 minutes yesterday eveining · and began discussion on "arrangements" to keep Palestinian terrorists from returning to southern Lebanon. 
Israel says the raiders came by sea from Lebanon; 
In a letter to the United Nations. 
CLC Bets on 'social space 
by Kathleen Connelly Senior Staff Reporter 

The Campus Life Council (CLC) voted to pass a proposal on social space, and discussed student facul­ty relationships and a job descrip­tion for the position of Vice-Presi­dent of Student Affairs at a meeting held last night in Keenan Basement. 
The proposal on social space is the result of efforts by Student Body President, Dave Bender, Executive Co-ordinator ""'Joe Gill, Rick Pinkowski, Fr. Richard Con­yers, rector of Keenan, Ed Andrle, vice-president of Stanford and Tim Nickels vice-president of Howard. 
Under the proposal guidelines, Morrissey. Howard, Fisher, Sorin and Pangborn Halls would undergo renovations involving expenditures of $6,200. The plan also involved the relocation of 29 students {in­coming freshmen) to Carroll Hall or . 
Holy Cross Hall. Pinkowski, Gil_l and Ben.der discuss the soc1al space proposal at In Fisher, according to the the ClC meehng last m~!:'!-_[Photo by Ken McAlpme] report, the game room is in a h S · 1 C · · p
basement hallway and the food------T e OCia ommtston resents ----i 
sales roo~ is lo~at~d in a storagecloset. Ftsher ts hsted as fourth worst among the five halls selected 
for remodeling.
Committee members visited all halls on campus and computedsocial space per person presently available. Holy Cross has the most
with 112 square feet and Howard the least with t.5 square feet. Plans for renovations on the construction of lounges by elimina­ting partitions between presently existing rooms. The $6.200figure does not include furnishings for the the projected lounges. According to the report, there is a shortage of social space in the halls because it was simply not provided for in the original building plans or overcrowding made it necessaryto reconvert social space mto rest<lential rooms. At the meeting last night, Pink­owski said that all rectors and hall staffs were very enthusiastic about the plans. A second concern of the proposal is the relocation of students to Carroll and Holy Cross. In Carroll, this would involve the conversion of a music room, a study lounge and a main's lounge into residential space. The alterations would·cost $2,000 and the rooms created would accomodate 30 students. The report also strongly recom­mends that an intensive study be made on the efficiency of use of residential space in Holy Cross. The report suggests that between 20 and 30 students could be locate~ in Holy Cross, but Nickels com­
[Contlnued o!!. page 10] 

Miller-Orest for UMOC I 
• I N · h I
Carntva tg t I 7 ? Ton"ght at the Library I 
-• I 1 
10¢ b I
4 -7 green eer I ?S¢ pt'na coladas & 12:00 -12:30 am 
strawberry dacquiries Carnival Special
10¢ chance 
to win records,50¢ pitchers of Miller stuffed animals 
-3 0 m in Grand Drawing Bushel of Booze 
PROCEEDS GO TO CHARITY 
Those interested in the position of 
Judicial Coordinator 
for 78-79 contact Steve Dane at 
1559 or leave your name w1th tne 
the Student Government Secretary. 
Lebanon denied responsibility for the guerrilla attack and protested Israel's "naked aggression." It did not ask for a meeting of the Security Council. 
Begin said the attack ''was in the fullest sense of the word. the use of the inherent right of legitimate self-defense." 
PLO statement issued 
A PLO statement issued in Beirut said Begin "simply wants to grab south Lebanon for Israel. .. Wednesday's invasion is the first step toward realizing this annexa­tion." 
Syrian peacekeeping forces said their anti-aircraft positions in the coastal town of Damur hit one of the Israeli planes attacking refugee camps. There was no sign of further involvement by the Syrians. who make up the bulk of the 30.000 troops sent to keep the peace after the 19-month Lebanese civil war ended in 1976. 
The Lebanese government con­demned the assault as "unjustified aggression." The Lebanese com­mand of the Arab peacekeeping force asked Syria for "air defense 
means"  to  repulse ·further  air  
attacks. and Syria complied.  
In  Washington.  Secretary  of  

State Cyrus Vance told reporters 
the Israeli raid and the Palestinian attack that preceded it "are im­pediments to the peace process," and that the United States was following developments "with care." 
In Cairo, an Egyptian Foreign Ministry statement said Israel's "killing of Palestinians because they are Palestinians is but organ­ized genocide." In Moscow. government controlled Soviet media condemned the Israeli raid as a "bandit sally." 
Lebanese and Palestinians had suffered numerous reprisal strikes in the past. but the massiveness of the predawn attack seemed to catch this tiny country off-guard and. according to witnesses, wreaked havoc among civilians who had remained in southern areas. 
Israeli naval destroyers com­bined with border artillery and jet fighters to pummel the guerrilla controlled port city of Tyre. and the Rashidiyeh Palestinian camp on its southern outskirts. 
An American television crew witnessed a house blown up by... rocket and a woman emerge watl­ing "Where can I go?" She said her entire family was wiped out. 
Angry guerillas forced drivers at gunpoint on the coastal road to carry fleeing refugees north. 
St. Patricks Day Party Frid at 8:00am 
All Notre Dame and St. Mary's students 
interested in trying out 
for a Cheerleader or 
Leprechaun position: 
Sign up this week in the 
Student Activities Office. 
Any questions call 7308 
Tryouts will be held the week of April 2nd 
1011 .QPMrver 
~, ':

Family policy seminar held in CCE 
by Alleen Lavin would be possible, she said. "At the Notre Dame meeting, Ameri­The Notre Dame International cans will be attempting to draw Family Policy Seminar is being upon the experiences Europeans held 1 I Friday at the Center for have already had with legislation Continuing Education (CCE) in specifically designed to contribute 
preparation for the White House to the economic well-being of Conference on Families, tenatively families," Aldous said. scheduled for December 1979. American and European policy­
Twelve experts in family policy makers and family researchers will from the United States and Europe discuss governmental policies that will discuss the role of the federal are desirable as well as possible to government in actively encourag­implement. ing family stability. The researchers will be joined by 
Dr. Joan Aldous, Kenan Pro­two members of Congressional fessor of Sociology and a respected committee staffs, Joseph R. Hum­family sociologist, is the director of phreys, a professional staff mem­
the Family Policy Seminar. ber of Louisiana Sen. Russell 
She feels it is important to bring Long's Committee on Finance, and governmental and legislative rep­Allen C. Jensen, professional assis­resentatives as well as social tant, House Subcommittee on Pub­scientists to the seminar. Needs lic Assistance and Unemployment for a government family policy Compensation. must be discussed in the light of Fr. James T. Burtchaell, profes­
what 'Congressional legislation sor of theology and former provost 
Senators predict treaty ratification 
WASHINGTON [API -Senate DeConcici of Arizona and Don 
leaders are cautiously predicting Riegle of Michigan formally an­
that the first of two Panama Canal nounced their support for the first 
treaties will be ratified today. "I of the two pacts, which guarantees 
think the votes will be there," U.S. rights to defend and use the 
Majority Leader Robert C. Byrd canal after the year 2000. 
(D-W. Va.) said yesterday. Several others who were unde­
The prediction came as four clared also were to disclose their 
previously opposed or undeclared decisions, but two of them ­
senators announced that they Wendell Ford (D-Ky.)and Charles 
would support the pact and as top Mathias I (R-Md.) -changed 
White House officials launched an tneir minds. 
intensive, last-gasp lobbying camp­Mathias is regarded by both sides 
aign on Capitol Hill. as favoring the pacts although he 
The White House committed its has never discussed it publicly. 
biggest names, including Vice Pre­Sources close to Ford, who is 
sident Walter Mondale, White regarded as a probable no vote, 
House aide Hamilton Jordan, trou­said Mondale asked him to hold off 
bleshooter Robert Strauss and top his announcement. 
Pentagon officials, to the lobbying The DeConcini and Brooks declar­
effort on the eve of the first vote. ations left Sens. Jennings Ran­
President Carter also met with dolph (D-W. Va.), Paul C. Hatfield 
several uncommitted senators at (D-Mont.), Henry Belman (R-Ok­
the White House. la.), and Edward Zorinsky (D-Neb.) 
Unofficial , counts continued to and Ford in the role of mystery 
show both sides about three votes men. 
short of the totals needed -67 to Selmon ' in recent days has been 
approve the pacts and 34 to reject claimed by both sides. Hatfield 
them if all 100 members are was termed a probable no, but said 
present. yesterday he hadn't made up his 
It is expected that all will be on mind. Zorinsky, who has jumped 
hand for today's climactic vote, and from one side to the other and is 
Senate leaders think that one or now uncommitted, was tentatively 
two senators will reveal their scheduled to see Carter. Ran­
decisions with the actual vote. dolph, in a tough reelection fight, is 
One consideration for proponents seen as a probable no unless his 
in their quest for support was vote is desperately needed by 
finding a way to keep a politically-­Carter. 
vulnerable member from being the DeConcini announced his switch one to cast the decisive 67th vote. to the proponents' side after gain­Conservative political strategists ing Carter's approval for an amen­say that if the treaty wins, an extra dment to the resolution of ratifica­commitment will be made to thwar­tion -not the treaty itself -to give ting the re-election bid of the man the United States a unilateral right with the vote that did it. to act to keep the canal open if it 
Republican Sen. Edward Brooks were closed by official act of (H-Mass.) and Democratic Sens. Panama or by a strike. Russell Long of Louisiana, Dennis 
China detonates 
I] SCOTTSDALE 

at Notre Dame, greeted the semi p.m. on "New Trends and Changes demy of Sciences. nar participants at the opening_ in European Family Policies." 'The 'final presentation tomorrow at session this morning. He recently Tomorrow at 9 a.m., Dr. Lau-2 p.m. is "Implications of the c!dited a book on Christian renee Lynn will present "Organiza-European Family Policy Experien­marriage. tional and Fiscal Constraints on ces for the U.S." by Aldous and Dr. 
The first presentation this morn­U.S. Family Policy." Wilfried Dumon. Dumon directs img was "The Rationale and Social Former assistant secretary for the Sociological Research Institute ·.;ontext of Family Policy in Wes­planning and evaluation at HEW, at the Catholic University of Leu­tern Europe" by Pierre de Bie, Lynn is professor of public policy at ven. professor at the Catholic University the John F. Kent;tedy School of There will be an open question ·,:if Leuven. Belgium. and former Government at Harvard. He also is and answer session from 11 a.m. to president of the International Com­chairman of the Committee on 12 noon tomorrow at the CCE, mittee of Family Organizations. Child Development Research and Room 202. This is the only open 
Dr. Mary Jo Bane, associate Public Policy of the National Aca-session during the seminar. professor of education at the Har­vard Graduate School of Education 
Attacks continue

.and research associate at the Wellesley Center for Women, fol­lowed with her presentation, "An 
in Ft. Wayne violence

Assessment of Existing U.S. Fam­ily Policy." FORT WAYNE* Ind. [API -A ved in three fires in the city about The seminar will continue this group calling itself the "Black two weeks ago. 
afternoon at 2 p.m. with "An Jesses" renewed threats of viol­Fort Wayne Mayor Robert Arm­Evaluation of the Effects of Euro­ence in Fort Wayne yesterday and strong has questioned whether the pean Family Policies" by J.B.M. angrily warned it is being under­group is composed of blacks and Peters. Peters is the head of the estimated by city officials. has called it an "ex<:eedingly small 
Division of General Family Policy In letters to the Fort Wayne News group of disturbed individuals." of the Ministry of Culture, Recrea­Sentinel the group previously In a third letter. delivered to the tion and Social Welfare. The claimed responsibility for the beat­News Sentinel late Tuesday after­
Netherlands. ings of several white persons. noon, the group boasted of bolster­
Bjorn Kjellin, head of the Com­saying they were revenge. for ing its for<:es. having a jet available mission on Family Law Reform. mistreatment of blacks. for bombing attacks and threaten­and Bernard Lory, architect of The first Jetter was accompanied ing to dynamite city structures. family policy for the sixth govern­by a wallet belonging to one of the including the downtown city county mental plan in France under beating victims. Police also said building..Jt also threatened to blow c:;harles de Gaulle. will speak at 3 the group might ·have been invol-up several churches.
• 
sophomores 

Army ROTC can help you develop two career opportunities after college. 
First, Army ROTC gives you two years of practical management training and leadership experience while you're still in school. Extra credentials that will set you apart in the civilian job market. 
Second, Army ROTC offers you a part-time leadership opportunity as an officer in the Army Reserve or Army National Guard. That means extra income, management responsibility, community involvement. 
Two careers. For details, contact: 
Major John L MacNeil 
Room 236 in the ROTC Building or call 6264 -~·265 -7332. 
THE ARMY ROTC TID·YEAR PROGRAM. FOR THE GOOD LIFE. 
I] RIVER PARK G;J TOWN &COUNTRY 1&2. 



o son w c s a 
1978

Advisory councils recommendedThursday,Mar~h 16 , as an aid to class officers 
by Anne Bachle "Our student advisory council is McKenna noted that the advisory
Staff Reporter very, very necessary," emphasized council is "a good vehicle for 
Sophomore Class President Andy communicating, getting people
In recent years, Notre Dame Herring. "We just couldn't involved and implementing activi­class officers have turned to function without it.'' ties." He admitted that the class advisory councils for getting ideas "The advisory council gives us officers were not as good · at from and planning activities for input from the halls, but it's also a delegating responsibilities to the 
-

their fellow classmates. working body," explained Herring, council last semester as they have Although class officers may who followed the suggestion of the been this semester, but stated, choose whether or not they wish to previous sophomore class officers "Now we let people decide what have an advisory council, each in setting up an advisory council. level of involvement they want to class for at least the last three years Sophomore class officers have assume." has opted to have one. "I met weekly this semester with their McKenna said that the junior encourage officers to use that pool advisory council. "We talk about class now asks for volunteers for of talent," explained Student problems with the council, and get most projects, although Junior 
Activities Assistant Director John ideas from them,'' Herring related. Parents Weekend and the Senior Reid,· who advises the class "The officers make the final Oass Trip were two exceptions. officers. decision, but the input comes form "We made a comm!tment to 
Each class's advisory council is the council." reserve planes for a Southern Cal made up of approximately 30 class "Almost all the work on class trip on the basis of a unanimous members, usually consisting of one activities is done by council decisionfrom the advisory council," student from each hall and members, or they get students he explained. ''The advisory sometimes with two representative from their hall to help, which we council had a week to gatherfrom the more populous dorms on like to see,'' he continued, citing as feedback on this before they made campus. examples the ski trip and the happy a final decision. We also 
The advisory council may hours. The only exception he noted mentioned this in the class function in any capacity the class was the Sophomore Class Formal, newsletter. H next year's class ofticers wish, from merely offering which is being run by the class officers decide they want to gosuggestions to making decisions vice-president, ''but, again, coun­somewhere else, they can. We just "Libber or Feminist" was the Sokolowski and the students and implementing them. Reid said cil members are helping," he said. reserved the planes in case they title of a discussion in Stapleton present discussed questions on he would like to see the advisory "Our campaign was based on do decide to go to Southern Cal," Lounge last night conducted by how to describe a "women's lib­councils become more fonnalized, communication," Herring pointed McKenna stated, adding that no Deanna Sokolowski, assistant pro­be:r," how the women's liberation with set rules and procedures. He out. "So we ask council members money was involved in the arrange fessor of English at Saint Mary's. movement affects people personal­added that he is optimistic about to go door to door distributing ments. The discussion was the final pari ly, and liberated women and mar­the councils because he sees them newsletters and other information, "In tenns of actual feedback the in a Women's Awareness Series riage. 
becoming increasingly effective in so they can talk with all the council may not be too effective, but and explored the misconceptions of terms of getting more people students." we've had good people and it's the Women's fliberation movement The discussion was a preview to involved, as well as getting more Junior Oass President and been really important for us.'' and some of the reactions to the the Women's Opportunites Week input from class members. Student Body President-elect Andy [Continued on page 12] mQvement. to be held April 3-8. 

--...&lllll!llt••···...·=··~·~~~·.. ...--r--­
Thursday, March 16, 197l!l
the obHrver 
8 


I) Jl.• ..,c I , f .
,.. I 
•' 

-------------:--:-:--------..--.....,,.....................11':,:"".~-::-;;-~·--::-~-~ 
~--.. 


~~P.O. Box Q~~ 
Identify, please 
Editor's Note: The Observer has recently received two letters, one on the Bengal Bouts signed "DR, JB, TC" and another on tuition 
increases  caused  by  fuel  costs  
signed  "Mark  (Last  name  illeg­ 
ible)."  If the  authors  of  these  

letters will c<>.ll The Observer to identify their letters, we will be happy to print them. 
Somethil)g 
to be said 
for quiet 
Dear Editor: 
I am writing in reference to a letter in Tuesday's Obse~ver entitled. "Where's Your Spirit?" In this letter, Messrs. Defazio and DelGreco, in what is now becoming monotonous redundancy again reprimand the "No. 1 Student Body" for a lack of spirit or misplaced spirit at the America -· Michael Murphy concert. In point, the authors contend the audience was not efficient because they were content to listen, enjoy, and applaud rather than raucously display their emotions by constant deafening noise levels, and physical 'jumping up-and-down.' Unfortunately, not all share their opinion. 
One of the more enjoyable aspects of the concert for me was being able to see the performers, as well as hear them from my 12th row seat. This has not always been possible when people adhere to the concert behavior you suggest. It is interesting to note that before the rock group Jethro Tull will perform their announcer will ask everyone to be seated and remain so throughout the concert. Perhaps it is a greater compliment to rock performers, especially of Ameri­ca's style, if we acknowledge them as professionals and enjoy them as such, rather than if we are wrapped up in our own physical expressions and altered states. 
In the seats where I was sitting. immediately adjacent to those of Messrs. Defazio and DelGreco, it seemed a general consensus that the concert was quite enjoyable, and worth the $8.50 ($17.00) most spent to attend. Many people enjoy sharing a concert with the people or person they are with, 
instead  of  worrying  about  the  
performers'  impression  of  the  
audience they  are  members  of.  

Perhaps if we stop concerning ourselves with the "image" of being the "No. 1 Student Body," we will start reacting with more respect for each other, and concurrently. be able to express our emotions also. 
Gary S. Aumiller 
*Observer 
Editorials 

' ... that awful comtc• •1n 
The Observer' 
Dear Editor: 
The edition of the comic "lobotomy" in the March 14 is~~e of The Observer was certainly all but comical. Pat Byrnes' distasteful play on the words, "and he has his father's eyes," ·is similar to the sick humor (a very loose application of the word "humor") found in many adult magazines. When in a mood for such fourth class jokes, I will gladly purchase of these magazines. 
Hopefully, however, the editors ofThe Observerwill see fit to let us buy these magazines for whatever enjoyment they may bring, and keep such purposeless cartoons off the pages of our daily newspaper. 
It is a shame that with warmer 
weather, NCAA's, Florida trips, 
etc.. the topic of so many 
conversations on campus is ''that 
awful comic in The Observer." Let 
the overwhelming· negative reac­
tion by so many students be a 
lesson to both the editors and Pat 
Byrnes. 
Mark Krcmaric 

Library 'Pit' is really the pits 
Dear Editor: 
I hesitate to complain about the little ills that we opulent Americans suffer when those ills are only with great difficulty remedied. How­ever, when a regard for reasonable cleanliness is the source of one of our many daily trials and when that regard is repeatedly ignored, someone must raise. a voice in protest: 
The "Pit" of the Memorial 
Library is, for many serious 
students. the only logical and 
convenient place to take a meal 
seriously, folks 

If this is March, it must be Winter 
' 

.................................................iiiiiiiiiiiiii.......iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii art buchwaI d 

Washington··"! saw my first robin the other dav--it was dead." 
This sentence has been in mv typewriter for two weeks. I wa~ hoping that. like winter. it would go away. But it wouldn't. I read it to my secretary. Jeannie. who told me it would be a mistake to use it. She said I'd only be contributing to the depression the country is already in because of the weather. 
"You should write about spring." she told me. 
"What's spring?" I asked her. 
"You know, when the buds show up on the trees and the grass turns green. and people throw off their overcoats and start mulching their lawns." 
I think I remember it," I said. "Isn't that the time when windows are opened and girls and boys fall in love. and the voice of the turtle is heard in the land?" 
"And birds sing." she said, "and dogs romp. and children daydream. and they pick up the garbage on the days they're supposed to." 
"It's coming back to me." I said excitedly as I sat at the typewriter. "I can almost smell it. I can smell. .. wait. .. I can smell cherry blossoms." 
"Of course you can. And you also can smell roses and hyacinths and clover." 
"Clove~,'-. I cried. "How could I_._ 
have forgotten the smell ot clover.?" 
"It's been a long time," she said. "Anyone who has lived through this winter would have forgotten the smell of clover." 
"Quiet." I said, playing my fingers across the typewriter. "I think I hear the sound of a babbling brook." 
"You do, you do," she said. "It is a babbling brook beside a waterfall." 
"Are my ears deceiving me? Is that the buzz of a bee?" 
''Of course it's a bee. A beautiful honeybee alighting on a flower. Close your eyes for a moment and think back. back." 
"It's so hazy. How far back should I go?" 
Go back to last April." 
"I can't go back that far. There's too much slush and ice." "Concentrate. Concentrate on last April." "The ice and slush are melting. Yes. I see a bush." 
"What kind of bush?" 
"A lilac bush--a white lilac bush." "Write it down before you forget it." 
I typed it out. Then I said, "There's dew on the hedges. Silver droplets of fresh morning dew." 
"Are the dogwoods in bloom?;; 

she asked me. 
"What color are dogwoods?" 
"White. pink and red. Don't 
forget the dandelions." 
"It's all there. It's coming back to me. I see virgin forests wearing their new spring colors. And over there is a host of daffodils." 
"That's spring," Jeannie said. "You haven't lost it. You've still got it in your breast." 
"There's more," I told her. "I see girls in skirts and blouses strutting in high heels and silk stockings along the nation's by­ways. 
;.That's lust, but it's also spring," she said. 
"Can I write it down?" I begged. 
"Yes," she said, "because it goes with spring." 
I finally opened my eyes and looked out the window. Wet globs of snow were falling outside, and the cold wind was whipping them around in a whirling dervish. 
It was Washington's tenth snowfall of the year. 
The spell was broken. I ripped out the paper from my machine, put in a fresh piece and started out all over again. The first sentence came out automatically. 
"I saw my first robin today/-~ was dead." 
[c]1978 Los Angeles Times Syndleate 
..ANO I V~LY PR0­7E5T THIS AR81TRAR:Y ACT 

during a long day of work. And a slow down; I haven't been to 
·"pit" it so often is! Tonight, classes in a week for fear of getting Sunday night, the students who eat drenched. there suffer microwave ovens truly Rich Hohman reeking with the garbage-like smell of old spills, a total absence of any napkins or paper towels, filth on 
Fords'-letter 
every table and on every waste container ·. more than a day·~. accumulation, and three vending reflects machines that don't work! They eat in a windowless room plastered with signs· ,tnat assume their others' views functional illiteracy, and drink (if 
Dear Editor:they were lucky enough to get a The letter written by Mr. andcup) soda that pours no carbon Mrs. Bob Ford in the Feb. 23 issuewater, only syrup. 
of The Observer reflects the viewsI can honestly say I do better by of the Arabian American Oil Com­my dog. How can a person fail to pany in Saudi Arabia. Let us notbecome nauseated by his food camouflage the issue. If we seek wh~n he attempts to eat in these reasons to disruptive economic andmiserable conditions of filth and social crises. look to that oilfoul smells I cannot believe a company with their tremendousuniversity of this size and of this profits acquired at the expense of resources cannot afford to hire the industrial, as well as the ,omeone to daily at least replact~ underdeveloped, countries of the ttte napkins so generous students world. 
can clean up after themselves! Is The views expressed by Mr. and thi~ the face of Notre Dame we arc Mrs. Ford are shocking, becausetrying to hide? Indeed, we should! 
they repeat the writings of theVIcky DIU infamous and discredited racists of history. Surprisingly, they coincide with the recent official dictates of
Something the 
the Soviet Union regarding dis­sidents. The writers exemplify the 
matter with 
anti-Semites who hate Jews more than is absolutely necessary. 
Morris PoUard Professor of Microbiology Dear Editor: 
I realize that driving to school Editor's Note: No connection and back is boring for some people, should be made between the but to make a game of trying to authors of the letter in question and spray muddy water all over people a Mr. and Mrs. Robert Ford who 
walking along the sides of Notre are associated with Aramco and are Dame Ave. is going too far. Please parents of a Notre Dame student. 
splatterers 
Lobo tom by Pat Byrnes 

the Qba&fVp,, I Thursday,. March ·16, 1978 'i 
Letters to a Lonely God 

Nothing is as useless as a broken zipper. In the last two days. I have been to Bethlehem. Pennsylvania, to see the Moravian Brethren. and back again. leaving a trail of broken zippers behind me. 
During World War II. people used to ask each other how Hitler should be punished. M<~y I suggest: they should have made him a f<1t priest. and then broken all his zippers. 
They should have left him in airports without a working zipper to his name. Thev should have left him to the cruelties of ihe llnzippered Zipperer (He Who Zippers. but is not Himself Zippered). Then they should also have cut off his buttons. 
1\t the South Bend airport Tuesday morning. the hireling who does security checks on the luggage managed. in closing m~· suitc<~se. to lock my grundies into the track of the bag's zipper. He couldn't budge the zipper. I couldn't budge the tipper. Somebody's mother whom we invited to help couldn't budge the zipper. Then Digger Phelps came along and offered a hand. and I would have thought that zipper would have given up those grundies out of sheer embarrassment at the attention it was getting; but Digger Phelps couldn't budge the zipper either. I got on the plane. zipper still jammed, carrying the bag in my arms. protecting its openness as you would protect the lighted side of a birthday cake. muttering to 
,__
-
-QJ 
.,~
-
0 
E 
..... 
-0 (U 0 
~ 
~-'-~ -= ,u__ 
0 
E 
0 ~ 
~
::?i 
0 .... 

Zip Code for Bethlehem 
myself: "Ara could have done it. Ara could have budged the zipper." 
On the plane, with the help of the young student sitting next to me:!, I persuaded the zipper to give up the grundies. The zipper got even, like a bad-tempered sport, by breaking itself beyond hope of repair. Nothing. I say again. is as use[,ess a:> a broken zipper. Or as stupid. Or as inconvenient. 
In Cleveland, the zipper on my trousers broke. I don't want to talk about it. I just want to ask you: did you ever sit in the Cleveland airport in an over-heated waiting room, wearing a heavy coat buttoned up practically the whole way because your zipper was broken? Did you ever. while so buttoned into helplessness. get approach­ed by one of the crazy people? This crazy old man gave me his theories. I didn't want to hear his theories. but he gave them to me anyway; and with a broken zipper, you don't dare to move unnecessarily, even to hide in a restroom. God, said the old man, had had Jesus assassinated. Why? Because God was jealous that Je,sus was better-liked than God. The Russians, said 
the old man, are not really people.  They  
are  animals  sent  in  a  space  ship  from  
another  planet.  and  they're  only  

pretending to be people. The only gooct Russians, the old man said, are dead Russians and unborn Russians. The parting of the Red Sea was possible, the old man said, because the Jews have bigger noses than other people. The Jews used to have regular noses like everybody else until one day, when they had sinned, God struck their noses with lightning. That's when their noses got bigger. When they were faced with the waters of the Red Sea. Moses just said to the Jews standing on the shore: "Snuffle!" With all that updraft, the old man said, something was bound to happen to the Red Sea. Archangels. the old man said, are appointed as God's foremen, because God couldn't possibly have the time to answer a million people all praying at once. But the archangels are stupid in doing their jobs, the old man said, and that is why the world is in such a mess today. 

I wondered, as the old man rambled on with his craziness. whether there is an archangel in charge of broken zippers? I wondered whether that archangel :1ated me. giving me a bag that had to be carried like a lighted birthday cake while wearing a heavy coat buttoned as a defense against the broken zipper of my pants. I hated listening to the old man. but I was glad I had been patient. As he was leaving, he said: "You have a good face. and you have kind eyes." I was glad he liked my face; it pleased me that he complimented my eyes. 
I was just glad that he couldn't see my zippers. 
I finally got to Bethlehem yesterday to 

hELL .t..;HE!J BRENDA l1.4DE TH.15 DATE FOR HE, 5H£ 7:>LD 1~1£ TO EXPECT A . SLiP£.~ MACHO-[)0!'11/'vANT 
MALC:_Yt'*~·-~­
--~-~  :..-=_  -:. -~­ ~  
-­ 
- ·"~  

Reverend Robert Griffin 
see the Moravian Brothers. Moravians don't know much about Catholics. They don't know whether Catholics come zippered or not, like monks who may not wear shoes. Maybe they thought broken zippers was something I was doing for Lent. they didn't ask questions; I didn't feel like making explanations. I just got busy with a needle and thread. 
This morning. in Bethlehem, my pants zipper broke again as I was leaving the hotel room. I still don't want to talk about it. On the plane, the night attendant kept wanting to hang up my coat. I hinted there were secret documents sewn in the lining, stolen from the Moravians to give to the Pope. I think she suspected something was wrong. I was only afraid she would have me arrested in Cleveland as a tlasher. 
I am home now, broken zippers and all. By the time you read these words, I will be traveling again, moving South with the Glee Club. Yesterday. I was in Bethlehem; in three days. I will be in Atlanta. All of the miles, I think. and all the nights in a thousand cities. are simply the pitstops we make in a longer journey. When we arrive at our Father's house, we will have more than zippers in need of mending. 
I will pray for you as you travel on your journey. I hope you will pray for me as I also move along the roads. 
Happy Easter. Darby and I never said we didn't love you. 
·~­
'· 

' ~
. ' . 
= 
Thursday, March 16, 1978 
9

Dave Mason and Bob Welch 


The Grande Finale 

The last night of any concert tour is usually the night of the best concert. Last evening, Bob Welch and Dave Mason wound up a five week concert tour with a performance at the ACC. It was a dandy. 
The show began about twenty minutes after it was scheduled to start. But then and not paying attention to the present still ring true. 
"Hypnotized" was first released in 1973 and it is a personal favorite. The oft-repeated lyrics "Seems like a dream, you've got me hypnotized" can put you in a 
trance. The slow, mellow guitar 


I'm sure no one was expecting a 7:30 opening. Even if they were. it was well worth the short wait. Opening act Welch was great. Since last night was the final tour stop. it may well have been the last time that Welch will open for anyone. On his next tour he should be the headliner. Last night he played an engaging, hour long set that was spiced with songs from his days with Fleetwood Mac. Although the older material from which W etch was choosing is not as popular as the new Fleetwood music, it is. nonetheless, very good and Welch played it well. 
The song "Future Games," from the album of the same name, was one of the tunes which Welch revived. This song was originally recorded in 1971. but its lyrics 
work 
-
3 -0 (li 
..Q "'0 
s:: 
0 


added to the song's hypnotic effect. In fact, the instrumental part of this was longer than the album cut and it certainly hypnotized the crowd. 
Welch re-released "Sentimental Lady" with his solo album "French Kiss" and he gave a solid rendition of it last night. This song's easy smooth melody illustrates Welch's musical versitality. After playing several hard-driving songs, he had to shift musical gears to perform "Sentimental Lady.'' He made the transition effortlessly. 
Welch closed with his new hit single "Ebony Eyes". a crowd favorite. The vocals on this song did not come through quite as strong as they do on the album. but the song was still good. This song was 
by tony pace 
conversations with the crowd, and -some of his side-stage theatrics. (These included climbing in front of the speakers and trying to incite the crowd. While these tactics were only mildly successful, Welch seemed to be enjoying himself.) 
About twenty minutes after Welch departed, Dave Mason took the stage. He started with what he described as "a blast from the past.'' This blast consisted of two old Traffic songs "Feelin' Alright" and "Pearly Queen". Mason exhibited some of the guitar prowess he was to develop later. 
He then switched to some current music and played the title cut from "Let It Flow", his most recent album. If the crowd was not in good concert mood before this song it certainly was once it had been played. The next two songs, "Shouldn't Have Took More Than You Gave" and "We Just Disagree" were also flawless and the crowd rose in anticipation. The guitar jams became more serious and the crowd was "so high it got me movin"'. 
Mason then broke into what may be his best song. "All Along the Watchtower." His rendition of this song was as good, if not better, than his rendition of it on the "Certified Live" Ip. The guitar work in this song is just overwhelming. Some of the band membe1.•.; seem to perform as if they were possessed. 
Mason concluded his opening set with "So Glad We Made It." I got the sense throughout this song that Mason was singing this from the heart, he was glad the tour was ending. As he sang "Gimme, gimme some love" he turned and looked at the groupies who were ensconced to the left of the stage. This song lasted about twelve minutes. The reason it was so long was that each of the musicians in Mason's band had the opportunity to showcase his talents individually during this song. Each musician used his solo time well. By the time Mason got to the final verses of 
the song the crowd was in ecstasy. 
Did it end there? No, Mason came back for his first encore and played "Only You Know and I Know". The frenzied crowd screamed for more. So he came back for a second encore. Mason announced that he was going to play a new song, one that is to be included on his upcoming album (scheduled March or April release). A new song should have quieted the crowd ,right? Wrong; "Share Your Love" was greeted and sung by the crowd as if it were an old favorite. In fact, W etch and his band even returned to the stage for this song. Itwas a dramatic ending to a superb concert. Even though many in the audience were yelling for more when the lights came on, those in attendance had to be satisfied with what they had witnessed. 
*Observer 
Features 




~-----~­
-~~---~~~------. ---. . .. --..
~ 
'-,.. ,~.
...." .........
~·-! ~it.\
I., . 
., \. .

Bowen supports nucle~ar power 
i \\' 

INDIANAPOLIS (AP)-Giving his "Critics would argue that there lear reactors during their operating strongest endorsement yet for nuc· some uncertainties about nuclear lifetime. And he said even more lear power. Gov. Otis R. Bowen power and that we should not move nuclear fuel could be made avail­said. "To do that, he said, we will forward until all of them are able through reprocessing or the need oil. natural gas. ioal and resolved." the governor said. "I use of breeder reactors. nuclear power -especial·· in the would suggest that even if we were Nuclear wastes could be safety coming years until commercially to end all the uncertainties, these disposed in geologic formations applied solar technology a'ltd hard· critics would still oppose atomic tmder ownership and mangement 
ware becomes more widespread ower. of the federal government, Bowen 
and until we achieve the necessary power. said. breakthroughs in hydrogen and ''There are uncertainties about "I do not intend to downplay the fusion." all fuel. For that matter, this week role of coal," Bowen said. "It is 
The remarks came at a meeting coal is the most uncertain and Indiana's most available energy on the Marbel Hill nuclear power unreliable fuel of all." resource. It will continue to be the project to be located on the Ohio Bowen said augmenting .coal primary source of electric power for River downstream from Madison with nuclear power "is a necessary Hoosier utilities.'' in southwestern Indiana. undertaking'' to balance genera­However. the governor said the . The meeting. held here, was ting systems. nation cannot expect to become sponsored by I,ndiana • s rural elec-"Natural gas is not available for energy independent simply by 
. tric cooperatives and Public Service power generation. To increase our relying on coal. Indiana. which is building .the utilization of oil for power genera­plant. tion would increase our depen­
"Nuclear energy is essential. dence upon (OPEC) (Organization !Evaluation The publk supports it." Bowen of Petroleum Exporting Coun­said. "tts record of safety has been tries.)" • Committee proved in 60 operating reactors in Bowen said federal studies show 
fContinued from page 1]this nation. another 140 in other there are enough domestic uranium an objective manner. it could becountries and more than 100 in the reserves available to accomodate at C'Onstructive for the paper and theUnited States Navy. least 200 conventiional sizes nuc­students," he stated. 
Pace agreed, "If the committee's attitude is constructive. I think their suggestions could be of use to the paper. I believe it can be valuable. The reason students should have input into the paper is

D. is No. 1 
because The Observer is the only student paper; it has a monopoly," he continued. 

and your meetings should be b:>! Howard pointed out. "I don't 
know how we could have more input. Granted our input is limited. 
The L.ina>ln Highway Inn can meet your 
hut I don't know how much it
requ;reme~!s •.-•• d ~jo ; o.;;;r;uet or J .·~.· ! graduation ;x:m;~ 
should be. I don't know of any
r;;l 


campuses that have more than one student newspaper." Observer Editor-in-Chief Marti
~ 
Hogan commented."The Observer is not financed primarily by student f•~es. Advertising pays for over half of the production costs. I think we are responsive to the students. There are Observer representatives in the office almost every hour of the day." 
I I' 
Contact the L. H. Inn -255·4786 or v1s1t us 2754 Lmcolnway East Mishawaka 
Th1s add entitles bearer to 1 FREE carafe of wine with meal. 

~----------­

A Team to Remember! A Season 'to Remember ! 
Black & White prints of memorable clips from the 1977 National Champions 

'Ill Handsome, designed for framing.

* Suitable for Rec-Room,Den, or Office 
!I Send . checks or money
actual size: 24 X 20 
orders to: t<.B.S. & Sons
· price: $1 ooo per print

Allow 2-3 weeks 904 LaSalle West Bldg. for delivery. South Bend, Ind. 46601 


\ !..\\ 
;t~. ··: \ 
,· ...... 
......~...-\ 
...~;··. 
.\ 
. ~. 1 
~~--­
~ ~..;. '­
CLC discusses space 
establishment of off-campus house­(Continued from page 3) holds headed by professors. In this plan, professors and their families
men ted that ''this is a conservative would live with student residents inestimate. I would guess that room a rented house.
for as many as SO students could be "Notre Dame is in business tocreated." 
serve students and one importantThe report calls Holy Cross "the area is to get faculty and studentskey to relocating students fro other to interact," Conyers asserted.
from other dormitories'' to elimin­The council also discussed theate overcrowding. 
dra:fting of a jobdescription for theFr. Thomas Tallarida rector of position of Vice-President for Stu·Zahm. suggested that the funding dent Affairs. Conyers suggestedfor the renovation projects come that the vice-president be a Holyfrom the halls. A majority of the Cross priest, stating that theother council members agreed. 
position is a pastoral ministry.
Members also focused on other ''The vice-president of Studentways to more efficiently use pace in Affairs should have residential lifethe halls. One member of the as the primary focus of his job," hesocial space committed said that added.
5.000 square feet of space in Gill suggested that the positionStanford is being used as "dead be filled be someone who has beenstorage'· for unsold books from the around the University for a numberUniversity of Notre Dame Press, of years so they would be familiarand an equal amount of space is with the University and its prob­vacant in Keenan. 
lems.
Conyers also brought up the An ability to coordinate and voiceproblem of athletic space, mention· the interests of students was citeding that Carroll Hall has a hard­bv Sr. Vivian Whitehead, rector ofwood floor gym that is unused Breen-Phillips as a valuable quaJifi.
because its lacks heating. He cation for the job.
added that Holy Cross has basket­Rector evaluations were alsoball and handball courts and fully discussed briefly. Fr. Eugeneequipped locker rooms and shower Gorski, rector of Howard, main·facilities that are being used for tained that the evaluation shouldstorage space. 
be conducted !Jy the Office ofAlso on the agenda was a report Student Affairs, but Tallarida dis­!-Jn student-faculty relationships agreed. He said that students inby Mark Huard, Hall Presidents Zahn initiated a rector evaluationCouncil representative to the CLC. 
last year. He said he found it veryHuard reported on proposals made useful because students selectedTuesday night by the Faculty the areas of concentation that wereSenate. A .major proposal being important to them.
considered by the Senate is that The CLC's next working sessionfour meals tickets be allocated to will be Wednesday, March 29 ineach faculty member so that they Keenan Basement. Meetings arecan eat with students at the dining open to the public.
halls. It was pointed out that the plan was used I 0 years ago and was 
SMC award
very successful. Huard stated that the aim of this 
to honor prof.
and similar proposals is to normal­ize relationships between faculty Saint Mary's is seeking potential and students. candidates for its annual Spes 
Another possible project is the Unka award. The award is given ;]lV::::::::::·:-~-:-·.-: :-:-.. :-:·:::-:·:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~ each year to a faculty member for · · ::: excf~llence in teaching and dedica­;:;: THE SWISS ALPS ::: ted service to the college . 
..i~: =~...:~~~~ m ~~:J~;~:~,~i~;~~.~~~~;:::~~i:
:::: jagged peaks and breathtaking wild ;:;: nees' qualification's for the award ;:;: flowm of Switzerland. Mountain•ring ::: and turn it in to 130 LeMans by .... Instruction and guided ascents af the ::: M d A ·1 3 T
;_:~.j Matterhorn and other major pub also ::: on ay, prt · he nominations avallabe. : : will then be presented to the t Brochure: Earth Journeys, Ink Inc·. Academic Affairs Council where :::: Dept. c., 3400 Peachtree Road, At· the final selection will be made. :~: lanta, Ga. 30326. Presentation of the award will be 
~tV::'-':~1\\t~:'tr:' '.~.' '} '=U'~~ ~ ~~~t.' the:~ea~mr~cation on 


.... 
Thursday, March 16, 1978 
the observer 11 


Campus Briefs 
;:::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::::::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;: 
has received a grant for partial funding from the Indiana ArtsHesburgh on TV Commission and the National En­dowment for the Arts. The weeklong presentation ran from
Fr. Theodore M. Hesburgh, 
February 12 to February 18 this
University president, will be a year.
guest twice this month on "John 
Each year for the past decade,
Callaway Interviews" on WTTW, 
established literary figures with
Channel 11, Chicago's public tele­
Pulitzer, Nobel and other prestig­
vision. 
ious awards to their credit share a
The two half-hour programs, 
stage with young writers on their
which were taped March 9 at the 
way up. All participants in the
University will be broadcast Tues­
festival present one major talk or
day and Thursday, March 28 and 
reading open ·to the public and
30, at 7 p.m. 
many voluntarily extend their stay 
The first interview features a 
to a full week of discussions with
discussion of "the necessity of 
students in classroom and informal
idealism in our lives, the self-inter­settings.
est of moral content in what we do 
Guests in past years have inclu­
and what we make, and the 
ded Tennessee Williams, Norman
necessity for global interdepen­Mailer, Kurt Vonnegut, William SG posts opendence." During the second conver­

Buckley, George Plimpton, Joyce
sation, Hesburgh talks about Notre Carol Oates, Gwendolyn Brooks, The McKenna-Roohan studentDame and about higher education Chaim Potok, Arthur Miller, Jerzy government administration-electin the United States. 

Kozinski, Tony Bill and others. will be taking applications for 

The student-managed festival Student Government cabinet and began in 1967 with a four-day executive post positions from today symposium on novelist William until Friday, March 31. All Faulkner. All literary fort!1s were interested students can pick up an represented during the succeeding application at the Student Govern­years as organizers planned to ment offices on the second floor of celebrate the endurance of litera­LaFortune. All applications will be ture and its creators. followed with an interview. 
The Indiana Arts Commission is a state agency created by the General Assembly in 1969 to encourage and stimulate the arts, ABC's Reynolds cultural resources and artistic free­
ABC correspondant Frank Rey­dom in Indiana. 
nolds will speak on Saturday at 8New Dome editor p.m. at Century Center. Reynolds,Chess club who has recently covered stories on 
Applications for Editor-in-Chief the coal stnke and Begin-Sadatof Dome '79 will be accepted until 5 talks, will speak on current events.

The Notre Dame chess club 
p.m. Tuesday, March 29. Anyone 
recently lost to the Indianapolis
interested in the position must chess club, 19 to 17. The match,submit a resume and personal held in Peru, IN, was the first statement at the Dome oftice on the match ever held between the twothird floor of LaFortune Student 
teams.
Center before that time. 
Mark McLammarrah and IanApplicants should possess leader Carmichael each won two games to dership qualities and a good know­score two points each for Notre ledge of the University, according Dame. Ian Jardine, Paul Rooney to Greg Young, current editor of and John Skarha each scored one 
the yearbook. 
and one-half (one win and one Each applicant will be inter­draw). 
viewed by the Dome editorial 
The chess club meets each board. The decision will be Wednesday at 7 p.m. in Room 326 announced later in the week. of the Computing Center and Previous experience on the Dome is Mathematic Building. The club's 
not a requirement for considera­next tournament will ~p hald in the 
tion. 
same room this Saturday at 9 For further information on the 
a.m. position. call Young at 232-3455. 
Carnival booths
SLF grant 
Any group interested in running a booth for the An Tostal carnivalThe highly acclaimed Sophomore should call1Bob Morin at 1003, orLiterary Festival, bringing noted leave a message with the Studentauthors, poets and other literary Government secretary at 6413 to­figures to Notre Dame each vear, day or tomorrow. 
College of Arts ~ Letters Medieval Institute 
./ 
Paulik who have been responsible for opening the door for gymnasts at Notre Dame. 
The Irish started slowly in the vaulting exercises due mainly to a lack of available facilities at Notre Dame. However, Notre Dame moved into the lead to. stay in the uneven parallel bars event, outdistancing St. Joe's by a substantial margin. This trend continued as the gymnasts outper­formed their counterparts in the balance beam and tloor exercises. 
Since St. Joe's only had females on their gymnastic squad. the men's squad performed solely for their own personal benefit. Fine performances were turned in by Joan Jacobsen. Amv Olan. Lori Nolan, Donna Fi~ney. Tracy Keating. Quinn Zuker and Mary­Eiien Perce. Finally. none of this would have been possible without the sponsorship of Mr. Noel 0. Sullivan. 

Check your attic 
Students are asked to check their attics at home over break for any old toys (e.g., hula hoops, tricycles, kick balls, jump ropes, jacks, marbles, wagons) that could be donated to An Tostal for Recess 104. 
For more information, call Paul­ette at 1337. · 
Paper recycling 
Newspaper will not be recycled from the dormitories on Sunday, March 19 .or 26, due to Spring Break. Collections will resume Sunday April 2. 






Smoking clinic 
The American Cancer Society of St. Joseph County will sponsor a "Stop-Smoking" Clinic beginning March 28 through April 20. The "Stop-Smoking" program is an educational effort by the American Cancer Society (ACS) to inform people of the health hazards of smoking and to provide an oppor­tunity to learn about the process of quitting cigarettes. 
Kay Stark, facilitator for the program and ex-smoker, has been professionally trained by the Amer­ican Cancer Society in their stop­smoking program. 
Stark stated, "An individual must make up his own mind about smoking, but first he needs the facts. In our program we examine smoking patterns, share ways of cutting down and stopping, and a no-scare, positive up-beat appro­ach is used." 
She also states that ''as many as 60 percent of the smokers who enroll in these clinics are still off cigareettes a year later." 
The "Stop-Smoking" Clinic will meet every Tuesday and Thursday, 7-9 p.m., for four weeks, March 28 through April 20, at the American National Bank branch office, 1345 
N. Michigan. The program is opened to the public free of charge. Enrollment is limited and people are encouraged to make reservations by calling American Cancer Society, 234-4097. 
Gymnasts win 
The Notre Dame Gymnastic Club won their tirst intercollegiate meet. defeating St. Joe College. 66.41 to 
55.30. last Saturday. This co-educational organization is only in its second year of existence and operates without a coach. Therefore. much credit must be given to the combined persistant eft'orts of Joan Jacobsen and John 


_j 

Thursday, March 16, 1.978

12 !b!: gb@ag!tr ..... '. 
I 
Ban '·set on ae-rosols

lnPIRG conducts pr1c~ -r1g survey 
to protect ozone layer
by RJtJal.eard 

Percentage Cost Difference L~tive To The Lowest h'iced 
WASHINGTON [AP] • The the upper atmosphere." Store For The Mode s:~opping Basket 
government announced yesterday a Scientists say the gases from theInPIRG (Indiana Public Interest ban on the manufacture of nearly aerosol cans are rising into the 
esearch Group) recently conduct-Stores Survey• l'iarch 4, 1978 all aerosol products containing atmosphere and depleting the a pricing survey at 15 local chlorofluorocarbons starting Dec. ozone, which protects the earth rocery stores to offer students a 15 because of fears they are from the sun's harmful ultravioletof comparative grocery Bakery, damaging the earth's atmosphere. rays. Thiscouldlead to more human

Meats Cereals,
ces. 

and Processed and Non-
The ban will affect 97 to 98 skin cancers and cause damage to 

~ Poultry E!2 \£! JJairy ~ Staples !E,Q.!!, 
percent of all aerosols using plant and animal life, some within walking distance of the Martin's o.o 4.0 2 3.1 o.o 0,0 o.o 
The selected stores are either ~ chlorofluorocarbons as propellants, researchers fear. 

1:502 Elwood (L) (L) (L) (L) 
including deodorants, hair sprays. Industries already have cut back main routes travelled by students. Kroger's 8.1 7.9 65 2.9 10.5 9.1 20,6 campus or are located on nearby 
household cleaners and some sharply on production of chloro­188337 sr 2:5 
pesticides. fluorocarbon propellants, with ing an average shopping basket, Kroger's 8.9 1.1 65 o.o 12.4 8.7 20.9 
Approximately 40 items, compris­sales down 40 percent in the past
Environmental Protection

2411 s. Main St, (L) 
thrt~e years.
were priced at each store. 

Agency (EPA) Administrator lroger'a 10,0 5.0 75 2.9 13.4 4.8 17.4 
Exempt from the ban will beDouglas M. Costle said the banThe accompanying chart shows 2572 Miracle aerosol products "from which noshould work no hardship onthe results of this survey. Stores 
acceptable substitutes exist,"

Van Buren 10.4 3.1 0 9.9 10,4 14.9 39.9 
consumers. Most of the productsare listed in the order of lowest to 1013 Portage (. 
according to the joint announce­will continue to be available • 'with highest overall price. The store ment. These exempt products

Clra'a 10,6 7.9 34. 9.2 14.4 ' 8,7 16.4 
mechanical sprayers or otherwith the lowest dollar price in each 2904 Michigan include contraceptive vaginalpropellants such as carbon dioxidecategory was taken to be the zero foams, drugs used in inhalation

1ro1er'• 11.1 9.1 72, 1.8 10,:5 8.7 26.4 
or hydrocarbons," he said.
point and all other figures in that 
1217 Ireland 
therapy, certain electric cleaningcolumn indicate the percentage The EPA, the Food and Drug sprays, aircraft maintenance

Wilt's 11.7 9.4 87. 10.5 12,0 o.o 19.3
above this base price. 2320 Miracle (L) Administration and the Consumer products and some insecticides. Product Safety Commission agreed The action does not affectLetters H and L on the chart Russell's 12,2 7.2 42. 6.5 15.:5 8,4 32.5 
in 1976 to seek elimination of all chlorofluorocarbons used as cool­

2930 Mcl:inley non-essential uses of chlorofluoro­ants in refrigerators and air indicate the highest and lowest 
percentage difference in each T-Mart 12.2 2.5 89. 13,0 10,8 ~.8 26.4 
carbons as aerosol propellants. The conditioners and to produce plastic 

501 I, Hickory agencies already require warning foams. But the federal agenciescategory. All figures include the Cll: 
sale prices for the week the survey T-H&rt 12,9 16.1 31. 9.0 16.8 3.2 27.0 was taken. 
17970 SR 23 (H) 
labels that say the aerosols "may still are considering regulations for harm the public health and these non-aerosol uses of chloro­

L1D.Coln-y Joode 13.3 o.o 19. 16,8 17.0 15,6 33.1
InPIRG plans to repeat the 736 Linoo~y w. (L) 

environment by reducing ozone in tluorocarbons. survey shortly after break in order 
E o!lo L S\lper 13.5 6.2 55. 19.3 11,6 13.6 19.9
to observe price fluctuations and to Howard St., compare results after a set period 

Chapman'• Super 15.6 12,9 22. 20.4 16.1 15.1 26,0 
PHONE
of time. s. Michigan st. 
234-6767
Anyone desiring further informa­
19.~

tion about the survey or interested 2321 Linoolnway W, (H (H) (H) (H) (H) in working on the next one should call the InPIRG office at 6413. 
for the aware man and woman 

ners Haircut SP-ecial

Course studies educai ·jron abroad 
For Women For Men

A college course comparing and will provide opportunities for visit­The program is designed espe­
contrasting educational approaches ing public schools which have ia1lly for graduate students, but is 
Redken shampoo ~ RK shampoo and

in England, Holland and Germany incorporated the Montessori ot restricted to persons in the field will be conducted in those countries methods as part of their curricu­f education. Proficiency in 
Curl with haircut cmfltioning \\ith haircut 

this summer by Indiana University lum. In Holland. the group also l«:,rman and Dutch languages is 
Reg. $9.75 and air styling

at South Bend. will visit a Jena-Pian school and a ot essential. Dr. J. Vincent The course, "Comparative Study Dutch Teacher Center. 'eterson, associate professor of 
Now $7.50 
Reg. $11.75

of Selected Educational Systems in In Germany, the group will visit ducation at IUSB, will lead the Europe," will include visits in Hamburg and the School in the roup. 
Now $9.50 

England to study the open-plan Green. These are schools designed Basic cost of the program, which 
Hair Designers

primary school system in nursery, on the assumption that the grounds ill run from June 11 to July 7, is 
located Edison at Ironwood
Kathy Michael Manager

infant and junior schools in and surrounding a school are part of the bout $900. Additional costs for a 
n East side of Capri Resturant building

Operator also to representative samples of mentary and secondary students at e extra. 
around London. Visits are planned total learning environment. Ele­eek of independent touring will 
Cindy Cyndeeniblick Sue Schalliol

British Teacher Centers. these schools have gardens on For more information, call or 
Sheryl Vandygriff Hours Tues ~ Wed 8:30. 5:30

Rotterdam and Delft, Holland, these landscaped campuses. rite Peterson at IUSB. Applica­
Linda Whittacker Thur ~ Fri 8:30. 8:30

ons and a $25 deposit must be 
Susie Bucker 
Sat 8:00. 4:00

'ceived by April 10 to receive a 
Ann Wruble 

ace in the course. 

Councils: 'very important' 
!Continued from paae Sll talent among their class," he A spokesman for the senior class remarked. agreed, commenting that the 
Bruce Martin. who served on theadvisory council has been "very, Junior Class advisory council last very important" for the t'unctioning year. said he felt the advisoryof senior class activities. 
council was "good because it getsMembers for this year's advisory students involved. The classcouncils were chosen last spring on ofticers have the last word, but the basis of essays written by all they go through all the ideas interested applicants. McKenna suggested and decide what's 
said his class received two 
worth doing and what's not."
applications per position. 
Reid state that the interest "The key to the advisory council shown by students in the council is its very name" Reid pointed out. was not surprising. "The officers "At the bottom line, how effective arc frequently pleased and excited the advisory council is depends on to discover so much interest and how effective the class itself is." 
Junior Class 




Thursda-y, March 16, 1978 fbi Obl8rY8r ~ 13 
FCC investigates calls 
WASHINGTON [API · The Fed· era! Communications Commission (FCC) decided yesterday to look into what the federal government can do to restrict unsolicited "junk" telephone calls. 
The FCC said it was inviting public comments on how unsol­icited telephone calls invade pri­vacy. compared with highway bill­boards, mobile loud speakers, rad­io and TV ads, newspaper and magazine ads. "junk mail" and door to door sales calls. 
The commission staff also will research the legal question of what the FCC can do to police this area. 
Philip V. Permut, deputy. chief of the FCC's Common Carrier Bur­eau, told the commission that if the bureau finds legislation is needed, it will come back quickly before the commission to recommend it. 
He said the FCC has received more that 1,000 replies to its Sept. 13 request for comment on a petition by Citizens Communica­tions Center, a public interest law firm, calling for FCC action. Permut said most of the leters supported the petition. 
The commission also has been 
asked by five members of Congress 
to act, including Rep. Les Aspin 
(D-Wis.) the chief sponsor among 
84 other House members of a bill to 
regulate unsolicited phone calls. 
Sen. Wendell Anderson (D-Minn.) 
has introduced a similar bill in the 
Senate. 
The FCC plans to loot into person-t~-person phone calls and automated phone calls which are dialed automatically and involve tape-recorded messages. 
The commission said it will seek to find out if it has jurisdiction to regulate the calls if they do not cross state lines. 
On this point, Commissioner Jo­'Seph R. Fogerty said the commis­sion should consider whether this might be solved by setting up a joint federal state board. 
Commissioner Tyrone Brown wanted the inquiry to include whether the telephone company charges more when a firm makes thousands of calls a day "compared with the two a day at my house" even though Permut said this is up £o state regulatory agencies. 
·• 
"J ve got Pabst Blue Ribbon on my mind." 



Thursday, Ma~h 16, 197;11
14 the obHfY81' 

UMW council approves contract
PLACEMENT BUREAU 
Main Building 
INTERVIEWS SCHEDUT£D FOR MARCH 29, 30 and 31 
Interviews are for seniors and graduate students. Sign-up schedules are in Room 213, Main Building, Interview times mu11t be signed for in person. The sign-up period at the Placement Bureau will be from 8:00a.m. to 5:00p.m., Monday through Friday. 
Mar. 29 WED 
Mar. 30 THURS 
Mar. J I FRI 
Boar's Head Restaurant All BBA. Ca~~bell Sales Co B ln Lib. Arts and Bus. Admin. Eq•oitable Life Assurance Soc:lety I! in AL and llA General Foods Corp. Pet Foods Div R l.n ChE, ME, ME.tu. B in Acct or Fin. MilA with Acct or Fin bkgrd or concentration Kellogg Company B in Acct. MBA with Acct bkgrd or conctrn 
ITT Telecommunications Cancelled _IB~t World TradE' Corp ~rnA Foreign Nationals who want to return to their home countries Johnson & John~on. Baby Products Div R in AL or BA. Prudential Insurance Co B l.n AL and BA Winters National Rank & Trust Co R in Econ, Engf;-Math. All BBA. MBA. The Boeing Company BM in AE/ME, CE (Struc), EE/Engr Sci, Comp Sc: 1. 
Anaconda Co. Wire & Cable Div 
B in Acct. A in ME, EE, ChE, MEIO 
Carrier Corporation 
B in Acct 
A. M. Castle & Compan~ All BRA for Operations Manager; BA or BBA for Metals Sales; B in Math or Comp Sci for Data Processing Kelsey-Hayes. Subsidiary of Fruehauf Corp B in Bus. Ad. or Engr for Production Mgt; All BBA for Direct Industrial Sales; BM in ME for Product Engr; B in Met for Met Engr on staff level. Toledo Edison Company B in EE, ME, MENO 
Boy allowed to die at parents' insistence 
CHICAGO I API -Doctors have complied with parents' wishes and pulled the plug on a machine which kept a badly beaten IS year-old boy alive. Ht' died 14 minutes later. 
Now. state prosecutors must de­cide whether to press murder L'hargcs against another youth ac­cusl'd in the beating. 
Craig Sieck. IS. Chicago. was kt·pt alive since last week by the lifL·-support <;ystem. which his par­l'nts pleaded for doctors to remove. "lie's dead. he's dead." sobbed Mrs Sieck before doctors pulled the plug Tuesda~·-"We've bought the ca~kct. We've planned the funeral. 
Whv don't they let him go?" 
Doctor~ at Lovola Medical Center in west subu~ban Maywood de­cided to remove the ma-chine after an encephalogram Tuesday morn­ing "~howed brain death" said Jo:~nn Lcsni~1k. assistant director of public relations at the hospital. 
She ~aid the life-support system ''a~ removed at I0: Io am and the 
_1·oulh  "was pronounced dead"  at  
10:.10 am.  
Hi' parents  were  not  prc!>ent  at  
thl· ho,pital.  

J<um·~ M. Sticka. 17. of suburban 
Fisher captures IH volleyball 
On TuL·sdav night. March 14. Fi~hcr Hall defeated Flanner rcl\\CI' 10 capture the Interhall 
\~>lie.' ball championship. Flanner. who had alread1· lost once in the t!c>uhlt· elimination tournament. had til lwat Fisher twice to take the titlt·. 
The teams played two matches. with cad1 match consisting of the ''e~t of three games. Flanner c-aptured the opening match. but Fisher came back towin the 'econd and claim the title. Fischer won the championship match by scores of 15-o. 9-15 and 15-8. 
The championship Fisher squad ,·onsistcd of captain Tony Crudele, .loc Casey. Jim Budde, Bill Millman. Rick Thiesen. Jay Rafter and Dave Wagner. 
Cicero. had been charged with aggravated battery in the beating which Sieck suffered last week. 
Lawyers in the Cook County state's attornev's office conferred Tuesday to decide if a charge of murder should be placed against Sticka. 
"The case is without precedent in Illinois." said David Cuprisin. spokesman for the state's attor­ney's office. "We arc reviewing other cases in other states and we expect to make a decision by 
Fridav." 
The tnoral and legal questions are complicated because there are two accepted definitions of death in Illinois. 
Bv case law. under the homicide sta-tute. death occurs at cessation of the heartbeat. Cuprisin said. In the IQOO's however. the Legislature passed a law encouraging the donation of body organs at death. For purposes of the act. death there is defined as cessation of brain activity. Cuprisin said. 

WASHINGTON [APJ · The United Mine Workers' (UMW) bargaining council approved a new tentative contract last night and sent it to the coalfields for miners to ratify and end their 100-day coal strike. 
The vote was 22-17, according to a bargaining council member. A union spokesman said he under­stood that the ratification vote would be held on a single day, a 1-'·eek from Friday. 
Earlier, UMW President Arnold Miller predicted that the union's 
160.000 members would approve the contract offer, which he said contained "vast improvements" over one rejected ten days ago. 
Miller said he "just couldn't 1maginc the rank-and-file turning it iown this time." 
However, the vote of the J9-member council was closer than t!; 25-13 vote in favor of the Jl'evious contract proposal which vas defeated by a more than 2-1 10te of the membership. 
The closer council vote raises lcmbts about the potential success Jf the new pact when it is sent to: he union rank-and-t11e for ratifica­ion. 
"A 21-15 vote in the bargaining ·ouncil would not help me sleep ·cry well.' said one Carter 
dministration official who has 
ollowed the strike closely. 
The council, which discussed the 

ontract proposal for several hours 
,efore voting. was to have met at 
he union's headquarters but the 
weting was abruptly moved to the 
abor Department after several 
ozen striking miners began 
ic-keting the union building. 
The tentative contract. the third 
ne between the union and the 
ituminous Coal Operators Associ­
lion (BCOA) in the prolonged 
trike. contains key industry 
)rtcessions in the areas of health 
enetits and anti-wild-cat strike 
rovisions. 
The administration was not di­
:ctly involved in the talks that 
roduced the agreement. But 
11e official said there have been 
iscussions with union leaders to 
tc~r the ratification procedure 
yhaving miners all vote on the 
nne day. 
Balloting took three days in the st ratification vote and opponents · the pact piled up a large early ad. Officials satd the psychologt· 11 impact of the early reJection ,ight have changed the minds of ltnc u11ion members who might 
liiSH BASKETBALL FANS 'E~Icome to Lawrence, Kan. 1d be sure to stop by 
11~ Catfish Bar & Grill 
1 block north of stud. union 
( )LD BEER & IRISH STEW Open at 12 :00 
c:;ooo LUCK IRISH!! 
ordinarily have voted for the agree­ment. • Initial coalfield reaction for the new proposal was positive. 
"From what I've heard about it, I think it'll go over. It sounds like a big · improvement,'' said Orville Robinette, president of UMW Local 750 at Cabin Creek, W.Va. 
Richard Caruthers, president of Local 3610 in Boone County, W. Va.. said, "From what I've heard so far, this contract sounds good." 
But a spokesman in UMW District 28 in Virginia and local reaction was negative., "We hope the bargaining council won't waste time sending it down here," said Russell Riffle Jr.. an attorney for the union. 
The pact would give miners pay raises of $2.40 an hour over three years. Miners now receive an average hourly wage of $7.80. 
The proposal does not contain any "labor stability" provisions the industry fought for in five months of negotiations. The rejected contract would have let coal opera­tors fire wildcat strike leaders. 
The new proposal would require miners to pay a maximum of $200 a year for family health care, down from a maximum of $700 in the 
rejected contract. The maximum for pensioners would be $150, down from $450. 
Unlike the rejected contract, the new proposal would allow free hospitalization for miners. 
"The deductibles only apply to doctors now," Miller said, "It's just a nominal fee to keep abuse down." 
Health and pension benefits are gual'anteed. 
Health care for many of the UMW members and families will be provided from company run insurance plans instead of the existing independent fund that was established two decades ago. That provision is likely to arouse contro­versy in the coalfields. 
The industry also made conces­sions on these other points: Wi­dows of miners will remain eligible for company paid health care for five years, as under the expired contract. They retained eligibility for only a month under the rejected contract. 

& pure sugar cinnamon glaze US 31 (Dixieway) North in Roseland 
272-7433 across ifrom Holiday Inn 
******************** 
FREE GREEN BEER 
AT 
LEE'S Barbeque 
Dillon-sponsored St. Patrick's Day Party THURSDAY, March 16 with Miller Beer First Keg is on the House!!! 


NICKIE5 ST PATRI(:KS DAY SPI:CIAL
-------------------------------------------~ 
-~----------------~ 
THlTRSDAY 

Noon -3 and' 10 · 12 pm 
McSorley~s Va entine Ale Tuborg or A ldecker 

-~---------------1 
FRIDAY 
Noon-3pm 3 Beers for $1 Andecker SOc While they last; Corned Beef Sandwiches 2Sc each During the Game Ballentine or McSorley~s Ale soc each 
---------------~----------------------------------------------------.. 



-61-f'r~r ~~~~i«dl tlf~ \t 

........·.·.·.·.·.·······.·.············.·············· .. ·············................................ .. ........................... -ur ay7 ----------------~·~------r\··. 
·..·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·:·:·:·:·:·:·.·.·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·.·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:::::·:·:=:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·::::·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:-:·r:·:·:·!·!-!..:·:·:·:·:-:-:·;.:..,.:..:-:..:..:·l-!·.1-.io:"·.io:._••••·.r,~:-r····..·..·..·..•..•..•..· 
..............................................·..·.-............................ 

Strategy 
===:.:===============================================================================:=:;:===================================================================================================================================================================== Cont'd.
Intangibles: Digger sai_d it best in the pre-game hoopla on Sundar as he slate is perfect. So is Kelly Tripucka's and Stan Wilcox's, not to mention 
stated that the team wtth the psycologtcat preparedness would wm. He also commented that the game that surprised him the most when the weekend was ov_er was the on~ played by his own ballclub. There is no doubt that the Irish were_techmcally prepared t? beat w~at Houston had to offer and that was magmfied by the psychologtcal readmess that showed in errorless opening minutes. Momentum plays a big role in keeping psychological awareness high--and the Irish have it. ! 
~But, there is no erasing the past. Shumate, Br_?ka": et al_destroyed tht;ir fi~st-round opponent only to get mugged by an mfertor ~tchigan team m the tourney's sec~nd round. T~e NCAA tournament ts the only black mar~ on the coachmg career of Dtgger Ph_elps as he has W_?n one ~nd lost one ~n every appearance to ~ate. If the,re IS one psycho~o!pcal deb1t to the credits that were posted with Sundays performance 1t IS the record of yea~s go~e by. . . . 
B1ll La1mbeer was play1~g ~~~_first post-season game last Sunday--his Orlando Woolridge and Gil Salinas. Duck Williams has seen three season's die in mid-March. He played with an attitude Sunday that said he wants this one to go into spring and beyond. Advantages under the boards and outfront, the knowledge of their true abilities and the psychological boost of an opportunity to step where Notre Dame has not tread in recent memory makes the-Irish my eighth pick for the regional finals this weekend. .· -­

An_d what a~ut that ~aim Sunday clash? If it's DePaul then I've got to go wtth the Irish handrly ot'l momentum and psychological advantage. Louisville? A closer game but St. Louis is in Digger's future joining Duke, U:CLA and Ken~cky. ~y choic~ from there is Kentucky to stop the Irish b1d f_?r dual-nat1onal titles by v1rtue of their senior-dominated squad. Lookmg for a dark horse? San Francisco is streaking and like Marquette last year, they are giving it everything to win for their retiring coach, Bob Gaillard _ u---____ _ 
HAWYSIP~'fH'tWt'SIP~'1HAfPtSIP~~~'1HAfPtSIP~'1HAfPtSIP~'1HAfPtSIP~A~D-
~ 
NOTICES 
The first issue of The Observer after break will be Wednesday Man:h 29. 
HITZ UNLIMITED. Spring break celebra­lion today. Don't leave before seerng us' 
Dissertations. manuscripts, etc. typed. IBM Selectric II. Linda's Letters. 287­4971. 
~~~~~~~~---------­
Typing done in home. Fast accurate reasonable Close to campu:. Call 272­7866 any11me. ~ . ~. 
------+ ". 
Accurate. fast typrng. MRS. DONOHO 232-0746 Houfi 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. 
~~~~~~· +----~~ 
.Typrng ReiSiinable rates.. Call-8051. 
Every student can vote in the May 
.Jnd1ana primar~ If interested. register before spring ~lfeak by calling Mo at 4-1-4001 
Typing Done Reasonable Rates Call8086 
Need'a ride to Florica? Reserve a seat on a bux. Leaves Friday at 6:110 p.m. for Ft. lauderdale. $40 round trip. Call Harry at 
8898. 
Fast and ~.:c•rrate ':ypmg done, at home. for busy students Telephone 288~ or 289-3279 
-Nf.EO-QUAUT.¥ -n'-PUiG?•.Executary..•.. Inc. Protessronal Typing Servrce IBM Correct1ng Selectncs. $.85 PH page m1mmum CaP 232-0898 "When you ·:.ant •:1e Best Resumes. $3.00. 
FOR RE~T 
~me houses in good neighborhoods (Portage and ;\ngela area) Reasonable rents Far 4-5 or 6 students. Contact Joseph Gatto 234-6688 
Furn1shed. entirely carpeted 4-bedroom house. $80 rwr person. Gas and electric not mcluded 438 Harrison. 1block south of Julio·~ on L'lv"v'': Cal! 288-7894. 
;; and 6 bedroom furnished houses tor rent. summer and fall. Walking distance to campus. N1c Call 232-38t5 after 5:00 
One 1•,-,~,ledl<>•e vacancy in tw•j·bedroom house in Niles Share $181: per r:-.o rent. :.'oderr: lurr.1shed. kitchen. free 1aundry. Call Joe 684-0281 
Campus Vrew. Private bathroom, 1 or 2 friends, i'Jii•i~l•ed. utilities paid .. ~-1-12 51:' (1) $95 00 (2). call John at ~77-5694 after 4 p m · 
LOST &FOUND 
i.ost. A 'Jnid ';Jund monogram pin with the in·• Is _.--,::;;~; if found please call /::~,c:iP. rt s~-~-~ ;;w 
, ···'-Sil••t: J' "f pupp'; -12 weeks :•ld,­c.art ~G:'::;-or: ·~a Avenue. Reward I Call St~cey at 4987 or 234-1253. 
-. :,•.""'" fu~~e ·: ,~: ··.·: 10 car:'"~'-: some 
:1sh ;, ~I c<>~ · read it. to1:--, Lost pr~'L1bi;• rn f' Jddle. Turr !: t53 Chern. :.:n•:· Cal' 288·6429 after 5 p.m. 
Fot•1d: :~ ke~' ·Jn key ·•ng in sno'.'J back of i~e ACC by tennis courts May (aim in 0bserver office. 
Los•. 1pr. ~~,,i:Jtjrline boots, lost in ACC b-ball courts above ice rink Sat night. Call Mike 1759. 
Lost: One expensive black ski glove near North Dining Hall on Feb. 21. Give my hand a break and call 1653. 
Lost: Black leather hockey skates with a piece of yellow tape inside each skate. Left in South Dining Hall's coat rack area. Ph. 3171 
Lost 2 keys with No. 623 on them on a Penny keychain. Call Joe 6795. 
Found': 1 Ford key on Kawasaki key chain in Huddle. Joe 6795. 
Will whoever took a Mechanics· 136 book from S. Dining Hall 13 March. please return it. Needed desperately. 
~------­
Found: Pair of glasses with plastic frame in brown glass case between Keenan and Zahm. Claim at Observer oftice. 
Lost: 1gold bracelet at Library Sat. nile. Call Denise 4-1-4833. 
Lost. 1Texas Instrument SR-11 calculator in Huddle or LaFortune on Tuesday March 14. Phone 233-7213. Reward 
__,ottered. 
-~---------------­
Lost: One pair plum-rolored. large-frame female ·s eyeglasses in blue case with stnpe oo1t If found please call 342 That's !429 talks. · 
------__i_ -------­
WANTED 
Fewer wanted ads. G 
Need RIDE to St. Louis will share driving and expenses Call Larry at.er six 232-4499 
Ride needed to Ft. Lauderdale for spring break. John 1107. 
Need ride to Cincrnnati for break. Call 
Tina 4-1-4155. 
2SMC girls looking for ride to Columbus Ohio March 17 Will share expenses Call .Carol 4-hl.S68 
------------~--~--­
Need ride to Columbus on Thursday. Call Kelley 4-1-5258 
1· d shave my beard Ic.; a nde to New Jersey. Bruce 3587. 
Need ride anywhere 111 Florida. Preferab­ly Tampa. Share dnving and expenses. Call Beth 1267. 
Sk1 Colorado have car -need riders. Call TL 3404 between 11-12 p.m. 
Ride needed to Renssaelear (St. Joseph Col' ! for break. Call Don 1157 
· need a ride tor two to :.linnesota. call 232-6433 leave message for Owen. 
One ride to Fort Lauderdale. Call Tricia 
6848. 
;wed nde to Prllladelphia. Call !_aura 
3847. 
Need ride to Connecticut Call Cathy at SMC 4-1-4960. 
Ride to Boston for 2people. Share dnviilg and$. Call 5236 (SMC) 
Need ride to Albany New York Cal Bruce at B992. Will pay exorbitant drnount 
~;ced ,-: 'it1e to Col~ ,_jo during spr··1g 'r::;~. Ca,_ MlX 3510 . 
Ride neer.led to NY s:3te arec: '-s~vmg brea~ Call Sharon 4-1-4276. 
N;-.,.,,: nde to l_os AngP.Ies over ''"3~. C~<ll Debbie oJH~ 
;.;;;.;.~ rrde tr, Boston area Marci: '" ·~--!ill 
share dri"mg and expenses. Cali ~ vny at 
1436. ' 
Two students need ride to Fort Myers. Fla. or vicinity for spring bre<J.. 'Nil' share driving and expenses. Call Bri.1:: .:• 1153 
:Jeed ride tor three to the Big Apple New 'fork City tor spring break. We ::an't aftord the train so call Tom. Doug, or John 3414. 
Need ride to Detroit for spring break. Leaving March 17 Also need ride back to N D on March 27 Call Katie 6751. 
Going to Boston? Need ride, will pay expenses. Call Ann 6751. 
Need ride to Houston for spring break. Call Cathy 4-1-4559. 

Going to PA. NJ, DEL. MD? Need ride to Southe~t Pennsylvania for break' Susan 6636. 
~---------~--~ 
Need ride to North suburbs of Chicago 
March 17th after 12. Will share driving 
and expenxex. Call JB at 1165. 
Need ride to Minneapolis. Can leave 
anytime Friday. Call Tom 8698. 
FOR SALE 

NO Fight Song automobile hom for sale. 
Contact Kathy 284-4385 for info. 
75 silver Camaro. Terrific buy. Gala Nela 
272-0342. 
Full color Cotton Bowl pictures now available. Call 8982. 
1977 Toyota Corolla station wagon. All whrte. radial tires. undercoat, 4-speed. Great mileage: 26-35 miles per gaflon. Mint condition. 5,000 miles. Call 232­1374. 
To Marti, Kathy, 'Barb, Katie, Bob. Martha. Paul, Mo. Steve. Karen. Joan & leo-Fini! (aren't you glad?!) To NO-SMC watch out. we're taking over I 
PERSONALS 

There are altogether too many personals. 
Hey Quiqsl Even though most of the staff 
doesn't Know you, we would like to thank _you tor the great job you·ve done. 
[L.A.P.J OearTony, Warmest congratula­tions on your election as the new editor­in-chief. We all wish you much luck in your senior year at NO and the future. Love, Sue, Dan, Tom, Mary, Cathy, Mom, and Dad, too, of course. 
Dear Sexy Blue Eyes. I love you EVERY day, not just Valentme's Day. Don't let Chester talk you out of anything while you're in St. Louis. I need you too much' All my love. Marce-Mouse 
Dear Marti and Staff. ··Happy Retire­
ment"-You've all done a super job. Now 
onward and upward' Love. \1om 
Patti Collins. Happy 21st birthday on 
March 26. Thought it was about time a 
girl with your · · understandinQ:" r~ived 
a personal Have fun, and afso have a 
good break. love, Mo 
SMC Juniors: Don't forget to get ready to dance the night away • April 9 at -Cinnabars ...more later. 
The PLAGUE is on the pr-_:;.:. 3-0 looking 
for 4-{) after break. Keep it up. you are 
great' 2 (Moms) Plaguettes 
Typing Done Reasonable Rates Call8086 

Haircuts. trims. styles-cheap' SMG 4530 
Bet;;y 

Cleats is coming I 
Diama • My roommate. l think I'll keep 
her! Tnanks for being such a sweetie! 
Love. Janet. 
Bro. Wishing you good trmes in Florida 
and good news on your return! We 'II miss 
you at home. SIS 
Jen1. Mary. Sue, Mary, .i»ar• ~ ~::i. Sheila, Cathy, etc. -Have a great time . over break. Miss you all! sc:-: b 
Watch out for Cleats! 
;:\'anted: One crazy Czechloslovakian girl interested in attending Morrissey formal call that crazy Czech guy. Jtm O'Brien 
Jane, Me too again. too. David 
To a Southern Belle. Have a good time in Houston, but not too good. Take good care of your roomie. Hurry back. that damn Yankee 
Schmit Bomb, Happy b-day you little weirdo I Have a trip to the Synagogue on me! s-o 
---~--------~--~­
Congratulations! 1 guess you ~eally 
F. F.A. ~had no doubt. ----------------~ 
Congratulations to the Flying Wombats who, by virtue of their B-ball cham­pionship proved that they are indeed the most high. 
Betsy & Ellen. 1 more dayll Can't wait. 
Your Florida friend. 
Ken: Someone once said. "You can't 
have a birthday without cake." You can -have your cake and eat 11. 2. 
Ken: I can't wait for this bathing suit I've heard so much about Happy "early" 22. Cay1ona won't be the same after your birthday. 440 
Joe "Lefty" Cooler: I enjoyed talking to you Friday night at Senror Bar. Good luck in Pennsylvania and next time you'll get your "lite" beer. 
Donna .. Dino" Hancock. May St. Patrick smile on you, Tne Lord above bless you. and peace and contentment forever possess you! Mom 
Mary and Madeline. Beware-revenge is so sweet1Mad -have a good break and Mary get out that baby oil. Burn. baby, burn I 
Karen and leigh One more day I I can't wait. We can work on our comps on the beach. Ha M. Wouldn't the Math department be proud? Algol 
Carol Smith. Happy 20th! Have a great time. Wish I could be there' Love, Sue 
Meg, You're the best! Thanks for always understanding (I know it's got to be hard). Love, Donna 
The fresh women of Lyons wish to thank the Bulla Shed Bulldogs of the Alumni Alley tor a great time Friday night. 
Mom & Dad (RJG & DED). who gets custody over spring break? (Dad. I won't go if you don't quit beating me'i Love, Your Daughter 
Tim Grothaus, The liquor store called ­yoor truckload of Cold Duck wrll &rive April 6th. Don't you realize that's Alcohol Awareness week? Don't worry, we 'II help you get (un) loaded' 
Anne, Donna, Diane, Peggy, and Meg: Shamrocks are green, violets are blue, 'Tis the luck of the Irish that I have great friends like you. 
Yale grad student needs ride to MYC or Conn. Leave late 3-18. Share expenses­gas. Call 233-2809. 
Kathy Festin, Happy 19th. A 'bottle of Cold Duck is waiting. 3'd floor cripplfl 
McGlinn -for yGur birthday, get naked, elephant wali<, splooie. and all those rugby terms of endearmePt Crest, Reda, Matt. Haskins 
Even ;_]kranians are Irish on St. Paddy's Day Come see Crest turn green on Thurs. nite. 
Orest for UMOC Miller Carnival nite. Happy Hour Thurs. nite. library 7-2. 
You can buy your cleats after break: 
Mom. A speciai thank-you Love. Kathy 
Vogel, 
Enjoy!! G 
Luci, Happy birthday to our bavorite goosie'' Love. The Girls 
DBS • I love you and wi II miss you. Don't worry, I'll be good in Florida! Take care. Love The Iceberg Melter 
DBS • You have got to be a buffoon if you believe that! Don't you worry-I'll watch her for you. Looking out tor your interests. P.S. Need some Rolaids? 
Monica, Say hi to Matt &have 1 good b1111k Tease 
.
·~rish meet Utes 
i[Continued from page 16] has lost in the second round the last 
four years in a row and the last six times they have been in the tournament. All the losses have I 
been on the third Thursday in· March. The_only other time Digger Phelps has taken a team to the tournament (Fordham, 1971) he also lost in the second round on the third Thursday in March ... at least the Thursday night jinx will not be around to haunt Notre Dame. 
Writers wanted 
There will be a meeting tonight for all those interested in writing sp_orts in The Observer office on the thtrd floor of LaFortune at 7 p.m. 
Need ride trJ Pittsburgh. thursday or early Friday, Call Jim, 289-G114 
Marti, Martha. Kathy, Bob, Mo, Bar· bara, Paul, Pat, Leo, Sandy, Joan. Quigs, Steve. Karen. Jack, Varettoni. Kate, Joe, Paul and Leigh: Happy Retirement!! It's been some year. Thanks for the laughs. the help and the memories See you Bt Senior Bar! Love. Katie [the LoatianJ 
Roy Riegler Happy 20th brr(baay (two days early)!· Again. you luck out and manage to be away from campus. particularly St Mar_y·s Lake. on your birthday. Have agreat trme an Saturdav' 
P.S. Is there any truth to the ruMor that YOU claiJll to be ONE of the FEW at HG who has never been laked? PPS Aren't you guys at Holy Cross going to do something about this? 
Pre St. Partick's Oay celebration Thurs-' day March 16th 9:1Xklosing at Plno­cchio·s in the Georgetown shopping Center at Emmons & Darden Rds. Green Michelob $1.75 pitcher and Guinness Stout Dublin's favorite beer! Also fan­tastic deep dish pizza! Irish Power! 
Lenten confessions heard Monday thru 
Saturday at Sacred Heart beginning at 
7:00 p.m. Anyone wishing to make an appointment for confession at a different time may phone Campus Ministry at 6536 or 3820. 
KC, Catch a few rays for me too. SB 
28 daY' till Michael becomes O'Millar. 
Tony, Rosemary, John. Barb. Mike, Diane. Ann. Brian. Kay, Stevie. Mardi. and Phil-Good luck! I'll think of you on those late nights when I·m home sleep­
~~~~~~~--------"­
Marti. Barbara. Katie. Paul. Karen. Quigs, Steve. Pat. Martha. Bob: It was great' Ready for those Wednesday and Thursday retirement parties at Senior Bar? Love. Kath 
NO Stick Men. Will al those hours of 
running pay off? Good luck in Denver. 
Karen. Mike. Mary. Laura -This one's 
for you -enjoy it. Peace? Tom -the new 
kid on the block. 
Dear Discoing Lyoneites. No. I'm not 
paranoid. I KNOW the Fever is spreading 
-I've seen it al' over It's gotten so bad in 
Lyons. that tne music never stops and 
people are dropp1~g deaa ot exhaustion. 
Cure No.2-kiss a leper-you'll never get 
asked out again. If yoe're squeamish, 
Cure No.3 melt your drsco r-ecords on the 
r::diator Love. Tne Disco Kic 
MJB, AG. DC. K2. Please d!l~·t leave !he head skeeter a1 !ne 411· ;;~nual skeeter­Happy Hour Tnursday ~ight' MWPt:. 
There's two ilinus oi people •n the world: .Skeetei'S and those wr,o Nisi' they were. 
Rosaleen. Kathy. & Cincy. Th;;,;~ks •o: answerrng all the phone :;ails. g,.ing rne rides & listenrng to my complaints. yot' may soon wish I was gone again. Marti 
Hey Observeritesl' You dtd a helluva )Ob this year. and I had a great trme wor ~ing wrth you. A special tha~ks to Steve Bonomo and his ad staff. Enroy your break1Marti 
-


r~..~ii..~aa~•aa..~es..........~......................~EQ......~n-~~--.~~---·-·--uu.---~q~--·--~~~------~-----------------~--­
Thursday, March 16, 1978 
18 the observer 

~ 
I Irish cagers face Utah in Lawrence
r 
b\ Tim Bourret from inside or out, he ha~ a 55 seao;on. A nHr.,in of Judkins. he Sports Wrilel' percent carcn field goal average. has been a reliable performer in Judkiris had a relatively off game key games. l-li'i best effort wa., H 27 
Notre Dame has one of the mo~t against Mbsouri in the first round point outburst against WAC powerful frontlines in the countr:·. of the Midwest regional last champion New Mexico. According to Houston coach Guv Sunday. hut Buster Mathcnrv l he back court will not score as Lewb. ··1 wa~ told that Notre Dame pickrd. up the slack by scoring a mud1 but the1· are also loaded with ws hig. o;trnng and slow. Tho:-.c career high Jo points on a 17 of 2/l •experienced !·alent: Jeff Jonas ran people wcrL' 1\l"ong. The lrio;;h an· shooting pcrhwmance. He \\a~ the Utah offense last vear and · big strong and fast." That Notre especially valuabiL' in the clutch as 'recorded .104 assists. the highest Dame fronteourt contingent will be evidenced b.v his 10 points in the singlc-sca~on assist total in the sevcreh· tc~tt·d bv Utah's quid, second overtime of the Ute~ Hh·7Q · history of college ba.,kct hall. slwrp~hooting triu;1wariatc of for-victorv <ll er the Big Eight When he graduated Pimm was wards thi~ Frida~· evening when Chamj1ions. Like .ludkin~. faced with finding a reliable thev fat·t• the Utes at Kan!'>a'i Mathcne~· i:-. a 55 percent shooter quarterback. Eight games into the Univcr~it1 ·~ Phog Allen Fieldhouse for his four-vear career. He sca~on he linallv settled on 6-0 at JO:Jh lSI. averaged IH.5 j1oints per game this senior Mit'lwcl Grev. After his 
.Inn l'ir11111·~ team starts thret year and pace the rlub in ent;·ancc into the s-tarting lineup I forwards that have ~hooting rebounds 11ith 7.2 carom~ per the Utes won the in a row and JH perccntagt·~ mer 54.5 percent. game. He is also an 87 percent foul out of 20. ~k runs the ~how but .Jeff .Judkin~. Huster Mathcne~· and shooter. an unusual accomplish-will pop from 1he out...idt· om·c in a Danrll' Vrant·~ all interch~<ngc ment for a strong o-8 f(irward. while. He anTaged o. I points per hel\H~t•n the out~idt· and in~ide Judkino; and Mathcncv arc gar.ll' and scored on 51.4 pl'I'Ll'nt of offton-;ive and defensive a~·,i~n-considered the greatest scoring his field goal :iltempt<.. llll'nts for tht· 2.1-5 Ute~. Pinrm's tandem in Ute hi'itor.v. BctiiTCn l he othl'r hackcnurt ~tarter i~ starting guard' both have ovn I 10 them the~· have accumulated .1.201 Earl Williams. Tlw o-'> junior is a assi~t' \O ir i' apparcnl \\here lll<>~l point<. in their varsity cart't'l'~. defl'nsin· ~Jll't·iali~l and he 11 ill of tl'e ~corrng comes fnlln. Judkins i" fourth on the all-.timc undnuhtt'dh ~hado11· Noire Dame's 
One of the rea.,on' Utah h~" "nn scoring li:-.t and Mathenev si\th. Don Willia;n~ nwst ol tht· night. 
~ "" 

nine in a nm and IH of its Ia~;! 20 is Another pla.ITI' who i~ dv,tincd He contributed on·r I 10 assists, -" ... ..". 
the plav of Jell Judkin~. Tl1c o-o to rank among thL· Ute.,· sl·oring SL'Orcd five points a game and 
against Houston, scoring 19 points. The Irish will need a comparable

senior i~ i:t hi~ third \Tar a~ a leaders i., o-7 frc~hman Dann\ con1mitted the ft'\\cst amount of 
performance from him if they hope to advance into the regional finals. 

\tartt'r and during hi... carl't'l' the Vrancs. HL· contrihured r-poinl'i turnover~ anwng the starters. 
;[Photo by Doug Christian] 

Utes are h4·14. He led the WAC in in last Suml;11··~ ,·icron to raiw hi~ Greg Dearll'. 11'1111 \\a~ a startt·r st·oring hi~ ~ophomorc and junior scoring aver;1gc to I 2.2 BJto....,cd bdnrc (,rt'l became a ti\turT. ha~ Fieldhou'>t'. In the onh t110 gaml's game, the lowest total in 18 years. seasons and ha" a consis!L'nt 18.6 with astOI\IHling leaping abilit1. he taken on the ~ixth 111.111 rolt· and at Kan.,a~ during hi~ carl'er he has Houston, the fifth highest scoring average thi~ \Tar. OnL· of the is the lir~t lite planT in the modern rcspondnl \lith eighr poirll' per' been the key pla.1cr in the latter team in the nation, was held IS 
Jti.l t ion ·~ Iinc., t pun· ~ hoo.~.~~.r.\. :_.cr.a !o. ~_I~~~:~ .l:~·-~~:.~. ~.~ ~~1-~ .'.l~·. h.i :'. ~·~~~.·k·i·c game and a 5.1 pereent ~hooting stages olthe game. He scored 14 points under its average by•om Desmond t-.·.·.<·.·.·.·:·.·:·>.·: :<<·>:-:-:.;.:.:·:·:·:·:-:-:-:-:.:-:·=·=·=·:·=·=·=<<·>:·:·=·=·:·:·.·:.:·:· pcrYcntagt·. Tom Chanthns. a h-9 points in the second halt of Notre Notre Dame's switching defenses. center. 11ill al~o sec ariHllt oil the Dame·~ 72-h4 vielon O\Tr the IRISH ITEMS: Look for Tracy bench. · .Jadl<lll k~ at Phog Alleit Fil'idhousc Jackson to see much action against Although it is a lot to ask. Notre in.l47.". lnlhc N.CA!\ pl;lloi'fs later the smaller Utes. He missed last Dame will almost have to duplicate that n·ar lhc h-.1 ~cnior ~t·ored 22 Sunday's game because of the flu
Strategy 
its excellent performance of last points. si.\ in the l.rsl I:."ll tn help bug...Notre Dame is 1-1 on St. Sunday if the Irish are to advance Notre (l;unc· to a 74.7~ l'i<'IPI'V O\'l'r Patrick's Day. They beat USC in to their first regional final since Cim·innati. After the Cint·innati the first round of the NIT in 1973, 1958. Notre Dame conducted a· gamt· that year lw 11a•. LJII<'Ied a~ 69-65, and lost last year on the Irish clinic in the 100-77 victory over sa1ing. ··J Jon· to pla1 al Kansas holiday to North Carolina, 79-77... 


For the first time in four years Digger Phelps will be spared the kiss of Houston. They shot 5~ p~rccnt. btTaU't' the rims arc· ~ol'l ··. For hi~ Bruce Flowers has a 71 .4 career death from the Thursday-night jinx. Back in December, when the played excellent team offense and caret'!' William~ has L'llllllt'l'll'd on field goal percentage in NCAA Observer printed its Christmas list.Digger's giftwas "a calendar without defense and committed only 12 ll'lof'21'1-;hoh throul!h rll,· "lllU'illl' play... Don Williams and Dave Thursdays in March." For you see. in each of the last four NCAA turnovers, many in the game's mcral". · · Batton will be playing in their ninth 
tournaments the Irish have been conquerors in the first round but were meaningless final minutes. Tht· ntlll'r kt·1· tP 1 1<'1•'1'1 "rll he NCAA tournament game for Notre ·vanquished in the regional semi-finals traditionally held on Thursdays. Duck Williams will have to Nolrv Dame·~ ;kkn~v. I ill' lri~h Dame. This tics Bill Paterno's Thanks to the NCAA shifting the midwest and east regionals to continue his tine performance. dcf'elht' lw.~ gollcn lt}lldl [lllhlil'ir.l record for appearances in NCAA 
Friday-Sunday. the Thursday jinx will not rear its head this year. Duck is a streak shooter and he has thi~ ~eason but the llJlJl"llt'llls art· playoff competition ... Notre D~me 
A new champion will be crowned come Easter Monday in St. Louis due been known to be streaky at Allen avcral!ing onh· o-.x pni111s pl'r IContinued on page 15] to the rash of upsets last weekend. After tonight's battle in the west and midcast and tomorrow's clashes in the other two regionals their will be but eight. From here it looks as though seven of those eight will be: Duke. Villanova. Kentucky. Michigan State. Louisville. UCLA and San Francisco. The eighth squad will be determined in the 10:30 EST game 
Golfers await southern tour

between the 23-5 Utah Utes and the 21-6 Irish. This is how the regional semi-final shapes up as Digger tries to get to a regional final for the first by Tom Desmond Tim Saurs. po!'>scssor of the opened his career with J bang in time in his career: · Sports Writer lowest scoring average on the winning the Notre Dame Invitation­The Utes on offense: A rarity this year. Notre Dame will find itself up squad in both the spring and fall of al a year ago. will be looked to against a team that owns a shooting percentage as lofty as their own. The Notre Dame golf team will 1977. is the only junior in repeat his consistent performance Utah hits on 52 percent of their shots and like the Houston Cougars they open the 1978 campaign with its O'Sullivan's top six. Saurs. a of last spring. get a lot of mileage out of their frontcourt. annual southern trip next week. native of Pekin. Illinois. turned in A duo of freshmen. Tim Sachek 
The words "guard. forward and cefller" are not in the coaching Under the tutelegc of Noel the finest performance of the fall and Tom McCarthy. round out the vocabulary of Jerry Pimm. the head man of Utah basketball. His players O'Sullivan. the Irish golfers will season this year in finishing second top six. Sachek is a local product positions are either "inside" or "outside." compete in the University of Miami at the Indiana Intercollegiate ;utd captured the South Bend City 
Collet·tively \he three "inside" starters account for SO points per game Invitational during the spring Championships pacing the Irish to Championship last summer. led bysenior Jeff Judkins at 18.6. Buster Mathaney doubled his scoring break. a third place finish. McCarthy. a West Allis. Wisconsin average last Sunday in the double overtime win against Missouri with 36 "The Miami tournament is a A pair of sophomore monogram­resident. is the current Wisconsin points scoring 10 in the final period. The other frontcourt starter is 6-7 good one." cites O'Sullivan who is winners form part of the youthful junior titleholder. Danny Vranes. Vranes is the first freshman in Utah history to start every entering his fifth year as the head nucleus. Dave Knee and John There are two other accomplish­contest in his initial season. Vranes is a leaper scoring a dozen points and man of the golf program. "And. Lundgren both enjoyed fine ed players in Noel O'Sullivan's gathering seven rebounds per game. with the format C'hange thi<;" year. it freshman campaigns a year ago stable. junior Biv Wadden and 
But. lad of height and high-scoring frontcourtmen are the only becomes even a better tournament and will play a pivotal role in the newcomer Bill McGuinness. These similarities between the Utah attack and that of Houston. The Utes with which to open our season." team's success. Knee. brother of alternates arc competition tested. operate out of an organized and disciplined offense that the over 200 The format change is one that the Irish captain. captured the tirst Wadden a two-time monogram assists of the starting guards indicates. Michael Gray. a six-foot point will cause the tournament to be Noel O'Sullivan Award last spring winner and McGuinness a member guard. and Earl Williams. a 6-6 defensive specialist. each are over the played at four different sites during for the low competitive round in of the Philidelphia Golf Associa­ccnturymark in assists yet combine for only 11 points per contest. Greg the course of the 72 holes. "Using posting an even-par 71 at Purdue's 1ion's junior team: either one of Dcne. a starter on the "outside" at the beginning of the year is now four different courses gives us even South Course -a course that will f hese players could aptly fill-in occupying the sixth-man tole to the tune of 8.6 points per contest more early season exposure and host two stops on the Irish should the call come from Coach occasionally taking his 6-6 frame "inside." provides the opportunity practice invitational tour this spring. O'Sullivan as the future looks 
Defensively. the Irish will benefit from facing. at least. a physically gearing ourselves for changing Lundgren. a multi-sport all-Min­promising for the Notre Dame golf similar team to the one they battled last week. The key to stopping a good courses and conditions. something nesota performer in high school. program. shooting team is to limit their opportunities, something the Irish did a we will have to do throughout ,he week ago in controlling the defensive boards. campaign.·' The Irish offensively: If one is looking for explanations to up-and-down The Irish will be at a handicap performances in sport there are many hypothesis to why a player is at his due to the snows that have 
Tracksters eye 'Barna

peak one day and immersed in the depths the next. In considering rendered any outdoor practice or 
Sunday's performance it would appear that Duck Williams and Bill play an impossibility. "We will · The Notre Dame Track Team will University of Alabama. who Piane Laimber paid particularly close attention to Sunday's gospel. Nothing have time to get in some practice shift into high gear for the next ten calls "excellent in all areas." and more fitting than the inscription on the floor courtside at Oral Roberts, rounds before the tournament." da:5"s in preparation for their Memphis State. a school that "Expect a Miracle" could have been more fitting for Williams and observes O'Sullivan. "and we will upcoming trip to Alabama. The sports a tine group of distance Laimbeer produced 33 more points than they had in their previous outing be ready when we start playing 'for Irish tracksters will head for warm runners. as the two certainly played the "Lazarus" role in Sunday's win. With five a score'." weather and the Alabama Invita­
Besides the Irish. northern 

players in double figures. a scanty 12 turnovers and 100 points without the The team that will tackle this tional on March 25 and while Coach representation will include Austinservices of Tracy Jackson and Jeff Carpenter the Irish offense as a whole vear's slate that includes four dual Joe Piane is looking forward to the Peav. Indiana State University andfit the script of Sunday's reading. Underneath or outfront the Irish -;neds and six invitational tourna­sunshine. he realizes the competi­lndfana University.
utilized the patented Digger passing game to control the tempo and ments in a five week period tion at the meet will be 
dominate play. following break. is a young one. treacherous. This past weekend. freshman 
· With Branning and Williams controlling things both as catalysts and The team'a lone senior is captain "To say it will be a tough meet distance runner Chuck Aragon 
scorers in the backcourt, the potent Irish frontline becomes doubly Rich Knee. The Wilmington. would he an understatement." represented Notre Dame in the 
effective. The Utah defense will find that same problem that the Cougar Delaware. native is a three-time Paine commented. "The tield is NCAA Championship Meet at Cobo 
defense encountered. When in the man-to-man the Cougars could not monogram ....-innner and captained stacked with the best runners in the Hall in Detroit. Aragon was 
match-up with the Irish and quarterback Branning methodically destroyed the team last year. A steady nation. It will be verv difficult entered in the 880-yard dash but 
the impotent Houston zones. leaving Utah with no bread-andbutter performer. he was the Delaware we welcome the challenge." failed to qualify for the final heat. 
defense. Open's low amateur last summer Participating in the meet will be He finished the preliminary 
[Continued on page 15] as he captured runner-up honors. top-notch programs such as the with a time of 1 :52.1. 
1 Duck Williams played one of his best games of the season last Sunday 


Notre Dame 
Observer 
07251311 

1111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
013660 
Box: 11 
Volume: 12 
Issue: 105 
Day: Wed 
Date : 3/29/1978 12:00:00 AM 
Notes: 
Issue # Missing (may not exist) : 
Issue # Missing (probably not published) : 





server 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's
Vol. XII, No. 105 Wednesday, Mardi 29, 1978 


New SU board appointed by Roche 
given a new purpose this year," time to an analysis of SU monetary allocation, preparing all Molnar, and Terry Gerth will take 
by Tim Sullivan Roche stated. "Rather than operations. financial statememtns, paying the academics, movies, and 
concentrate on a few events, we Mary Ann Moore, a junior from bills, and providing financial Concerts Comptrollers positions
Chosen by newly appointed will look at different ways to Pheonix, AR, will assume the information to the directors to help · respectively.
Student Union (SU) Director Bill 

enhance the overall academic Publicity Director post, after them decide what projects are "There hasn't been as much Roche. the new · SU board is atmosphere as well." supervising the Calendar Office feasible." communication between the comp­prepaing to take office Friday. A junior from Bethel Park, PA, this year. The new Calendar Office Two comptrollers have been trollers and the commissions in the Roche described the new board as Gary Luchini, will become the new Coordinator will be Rosanne assigned to the social commission. past," commented Carney, "and "an extremely talented group with Services Commissioner. He Pozsgai, a junior from South Bend Sophomore Rick Pinkowski will we hope to place more emphasis on a great amount of experience with oversaw the poster distribution for who worked in the office this year. manage Darby's Place, the Nazz, a greater accessibility to solve this the Union." the commission this year and has Joe Lacosta, a junior from and homecoming expenses, and problem." Roche stated that all 
Gene Woloshyn, a junior from also worked with the Campus Life Shrewsbury, NJ, will maintain his Donna Ziemba will handle all other the commissions are now lookingToledo, Oh, will assume the post of Council. post as the ticket office manager. projects. for assistants and other volunteer 
Associate Director. He served this Concerts Commissioner Director "Maureen Carney, the new Head The Services Comptroller will· be staff members to work on various year as Executive Coordinator of for the past two years, junior Jim Comptroller, defined the position Sandy Rogaski,-and the cultural projects. Those who wish to offer the Social Commission. Woloshyn Speier will maintain his post this as "making sure the various arts comptroller will be Adam their services should contact him stated that he will be coordinating year. Betty Sommers, a Lake commissions stay within their Szczepanski. Hank Baaij, Anne by calling the SU office at 7757. SU events with the Hall Presidents 
Forest, II junior, will assume the Council and other campus organi­position of Movies Commissioner. 
zations, as well as overseeing the She has worked in that commission commissions within the Union. for the past two years.Filling the office of Social 
After serving as an assistant Commissioner is John Bonacci, a director in· the Academic Commis­
junior from Rochester, MI. who 
sion this year, John Kuluz, a 
worked in the commission this year sophomore from Pascagoula, MS,and helped with the concert 
will become the new director of that 
commission as well. 
commission. Earning his position by helping 
Curt Hench, a sophomore from to coordinate the Sophomore Defiance, OH, will become the Literary Festival last year and by new Executive Staff Coordinator. 
working with the Cultural Arts He was an executive aide this yearCommission this year, Jerry Perez, in SU. "Curt will be coordinatinga junior from East Canton, OH, will at-large projects within the union,take the post of Cultural Arts 
and working to these specialCommissioner. "The Cultural Arts projects, he will be devoting his 
Commission will be redefined and 
Venezuelan speech 'welcome gesture' 
CARACAS*Venezuela [AP]-Jimmy He spoke again in Spanish, Carter, the most popular U.S. saying Bolivar's dreams were the president in Latin America since same as those held by George John F. Kennedy, told Venezuel­Washington, Argentine indepen­ans yesterday that Senate approval dence hero Jose San Martin and of his Panama Canal treaties "will "all those who struggle today for be a cause of celebration." human liberty.'' The president ended the speech with a cry: "Viva
Carter spoke in fluent Spanish 
Venezuela."
during his arrival ceremony, sur­prising many on his first state visit A crowd of 2,000, the largest he to America's southern neighbors. encountered on his first day here, He learned Spanish as a midship­waved paper U.S. and Venezuelan 

man at the U.S. Naval Academy, flags and cheered. The president Pictured above is the newly appointed SU board. From left they are: Back row-
and he made only a few small waded into the crowd, shaking 

Jerry Perez, Cultural Commissioner; Betty Sommers, Movies Commissioner; Jim Speier, Concertgrammatical errors in his remarks. hands, including those of some Commissioner; Gary Luchini, Services Commissioner; Curt Herch, Executive Staff Coordinator: JohnAmerican tourists. One of them,
It was a welcome gesture in this Kuluz, Academic Commissioner; Mary Ann Moore, Publicity Coordinator; Roseanne Pozsgai, Calendar
Carrie Miznitzer, 22, of Boston,

Spanish-speaking nation. It also Coordinator; Joe LaCosta, Ticket Office Manager; 
burst in tears and shouted: "Hello

avoided repetition of embarrassing Front-Gene Woloshyn, Assistant Director; John Bonacci, Social Commissioner; Joanne Dowd, Calendar 
Jimmy. That's great!"

translation errors that plagued his Coordinator. [photo by Dave Rumbach]
The reception and comparatively visit earlier this year to Poland. 
discreet security measures were in Carter, his wife Rosalynn, 10 sham .-ontrast to a 1958 visit by year old daughter Amy and top 
then Vice-President Richard M. 

Hesburgh awarded honoraryAmerican officials including Secre­
Nixon and a 1961 visit by President tary of State Cyrus R. Vance and Kennedy. Nixon was spit upon and national security advisor Zbigniew 
his car nearly overturned. The 

degree by Universite LavalBrzezinski, arrivetl shortly after 
army mobilized 40,000 troops for noon EST aboard Air Force One, Kennedy's visit. 
In Hesburgh's opinion, the major or some combination of these. Hethe blue and silver presidential jet. 


Later, Carter and President Car­by Jim Coyne dilemmas that the university must suggested that the university is the 
They will fly to Brazil today, then 

los Andres Perez set aside more come to terms with are: only place where such a combina­ride Air Force One across the than two hours for talks about University President Fr. Theo­remaining relevant to the problems tion has been found in the past and 
Atlantic where Carter will become 

U.S.-Venezuelan relations. Topics dore Hesburgh was awarded an of society while at the same time that "there is no other place to 
the first American chief executive honorary degree last December by 
included energy and economic retaining the good traditions of the expect anything better intellectual­
to make a state visit to black Africa. cooperation, human rights, curbing Universite Laval in Canada. ly for the future."
The university;He will visit Nigeria and Liberia. presentation came during a

the spread of nuclear weapons and concerning itself with contempor­
Hesburgh insisted that the

The president and his party will restraints on arms trade. week-long series of events held to ary problems and solutions and 
ultimate relevance of the university Internation topics on the Carter is to focus on •· "man, human like, return to Washington early next commemorate the 12Sfh anniver­acting as an independent critic ofweek. sary of the school's charter by society; and 
Perez agenda included the impact Queen Victoria. the vision a·nd perspectives,After his arrival at the Caracas of oil prices on the world economy maintaining its traditional com­successes and failures of human 
airport, named for national hero Hesburgh's address, given in
and politics in Africa. Venezuela mitment to excellence while history, which are so well 
Simon Bolivar, Carter drove past French, dealt with the role of our literature, art,
provides much of the U.S. oil providing equality of opportunity in dramatized in 
shanty towns, or "ranchitos," the university in a rapidly changing 
supply. Carter will visit Africa higher education. and cultural heritage." 
where the poor of Venezuela live, society and offered a possible route
before returning to Washington

to Bolivar's tomb. He placed a to survival. . According to him the Hesburgh noted that the modem Hesburgh noted that "in educat­
next week. 
university must find its mission and ing students to live today and

wreath near Bolivar's remains in central chauenge now facing the nave of the National Rantheon, American officials who asked not universities is whether they will be ultimate meaning in a world of tomorrow, universities cannot for­
change. He stessed that at the get to educate them for the longa century-old Spanish renaissance to be identified reported that three able to adapt themselves quickly 

•accords will be si'goed during same time there must be some future that is theirs on this planet
style church dedicated to the Holy enough to survive in the midst of constants, such as an unfailing or elsewhere."
Trinitv. the changes they have created. 
[contJnued on page 3] faith in God, man, truth, the good1 




----------------------------------------------, 
Wednesday, March 29, 1978
the observer 

,_News Briefs ________,_,. Consumer price index rises; E'conomists fear sharp i.ncrease 
W ASIHNGTON [AP] -Prices of 
inflation in the past two months has of 100, meaning goods that cost 

bee:f and other foods increased
Deaf juror files suit 
led many administration econo­$100 eleven years ago, were priced

substantially in February, pushing 
mists to conclude that prices will at $188.40 last month. 

overall consumer prices up 0.6
U1TLE ROCK, Ark. • Theresa Eckstein, excused from jury duty increase this vear faster than the The consumer price index is not 
percent and adding to fears that
because she is deaf, has filed suit against a Circuit Court judge and official forecast of 6.1 percent. a cost of living report, however,
inflation may · be worse than 
William A. Cox, deputy chief since it does not measure increasesthe state of Arkansas saying her constitutional rights were violated. 

expected in 1978, government
Eckstein, 29, alleges in the court action that Circuit Judge William economist at the Commerce in taxes, such as this year's Social 
figures showed yesterday. 
J. Kirby excused her from federal jury duty after he learned she Department, said consumer prices Security tax rise.
Sever winter weather was partly
would need an interpreter while serving on the jury. The suit filed may increase as much as 6.6 Taxes, however, do aft'ect the 
to blame for a 1.2 percent increase 
in federal court asks that a section of the Arkansas constitution be percent. Others expect it will be buying power of workers' pay­
in food costs, the same as in
declar,,d unconstitutional. The section authorizes judges to excuse near 7 percent. checks, which declined in February 
January, the government said.
potenhal jurors whose eyesight or hearing is substantially impaired. "Unless we come into some for the third consecutive month,
Grocery prices rose by 1.3 percent, 
unforeseen luck, it will be hard to the Labor Department said in a 

witltt beef prices up 4.1 percent and 
break even at 6 percent htis year," separate report. 

pork up 2.6 percent. 
Satellite lnunched 
Cox said. Consumer prices It said workers' purchasing

If that rate were to continue 
increased 6.9 percent last year, and power declined 0.2 percent.

through .the whole year, food costs 
the administration has been hoping Although that was an improvementCAPE CANAVERAL, F1a. -The Broadcasting Satellite designed to 

alone would increase more than 18 
to shave at least 0.5 percent from over a record 3.1 percent drop inconduct research aimed at transmitting high-quality color television 

per·cent this year. Although no one 
the inflation rate in 1978. January, it left workers with a scant signals, will be launched Apri17 from Kennedy space Center, space 

expects food prices to keep rising 
The Labor Department said its 1 percent more in purchasingagency officials announced yesterday. The satellite will be 

as fast as that, the Carter 
consumer price index for February power in February than they had alaunched into stationary orbit 22,300 miles from Earth over the 

administration has been caught oft' 
stood at 188.4 of the 1967 average year earlier. 
Equator south of Japan. 

guard by the size of the increase so far. Hesides beef and pork, other
======================================= Local 

food prices also increased. Poultry rose 1.6 percent, and there were increases for cereal and bakery products, dairy products and 
!Penn Ce;;tral gets grant 
INDIANAPOUS • The Indiana l'Ubllc ~ervtce Commission has been processed fruits and vegetables.

given a $833,490 federal grant to improve three rail freight lines in Prkes of fresh fruits and the state, Sen. Birch Bayh, D-IN, has announced. The funds from vegetables and fish declined. 

the Federal Railway Administration will be used for the Penn Economists say the sharpCentral freight lines which run between Auburn and Auburn increase in beef prices was dueJunction, Decatur and Portland and North Vernon and Madison. 

partly to the weather, which made it more difficult to move cattle to
lNew system installed 

market, and partly to a trend by cattleme11 toward keeping smaller INDIANAPOLIS -The Postal Service has announced plans to instal 
herds because of what they a computerized mail forwarding system at the main post office here 
consider low prices. 
Indianapolis is one of SO metropolitan areas that will receive the Except for food, February equipment, which is expected to arrive in August. It allows clerks tc inflation was not as bad as in retrieve new addresses rapidly and attach mailing labels with the 
January, when overall consumer use of a video screen and a typewriter keyboard. Tests have showr 
prices increased 0.8 percent. that the sytem can reduce the cost of processing chang-of-addres 
Clothing prices declined in Feb­mail by almost three cents per letter. 
rual-y and housing costs rose, but not as rapidly . 
......,IW·,~~'ATHER 

Nevertheless, the pace of 
Police ch iet 
Clear and cool nights and mostly sunny and ~ild ~ays today and tomorrow. Highs today in the low 50s. Lows tomght m the low 30s. 

hcts real 'Angels··
Highs tomorrow in the upper 50s to low 60s. 

[API -Police Chief Leo Callahan 
r-On Campus Today_---.... 

has two "Angels" of his own, but 
unlike TV's Charlie, Callaly!n is not a change in the approach to housing policy," dr. 
12:15 pm colloquium:"housing assistance supply expeimerrt: 

likely to send his winsome ofticers douglas scott, rand corp. 509 mem. lib., sponsored 
t1itting off on perilous adventures. 
aaaa 
'Cleats'
•
IS 
Coming 
,aaaa 

Tonite: 9:00 Jazz In The Nazz 
featuring the 3 o'clock jazz combo: Greg Carahoolad, drums Jim Tucci, trumpet Steve Burhidgt~, bass John Flaherty, guitar 
by center for study of man in contemporary society.  
4:30pm  colloquium: "molecular orbital radiation," dr. randolph peterson, n. texas st. univ., 118 nieuwland, sponsored by physics dept.  
6:30pm  meeting, sailing club, 204 engr. bldg.  
&:30 pm  judo & self defense classes, nd judo club. accwrestling pit, all present members should attend, beginners welcome.  
7 pm  career workshop: "information gathering and job research," betsy twitchell, mccandless piano rm., sponsored by smc career development ctr.  
7:30pm  lecture: "sex and mathematics," american scene cultural series, mary gray, american univ. d.c., carroll hall smc.  
8:15pm  concert, scott tennant, mem. lib. aud. sponsored by music dept. & south bend classical guitar society.  

r $1. *The Observerl 
GRAND OPENING Night Editor: Rosemary Mills 
Asst.  Night  Editor:  Tom  
Behney  
Sayout  Staff:  Anne Bever,  

Lenore Koczon, Sue Johnston, Mike Jackson Editorial Layout: Kathy Mills Sports layout: Greg Solman and Paul Mullaney 
Typists: Mark Rust, Beth Rizzo, Rich Clarilio 
Early Morning Typist: Me Day Editor: Kathy Connelly Copy Reader: Jerry Perez, Reed King Ad Layout: Norman and Disaster Zone 
Photographer: Dave Rumbach 
~-----.....,) 
The Observer Is publluect Mon­dey through Frldey except during exem end v.atlon periods. Tl)e Observer Is published by the students of Notre Deme end S.lnt Mery•s College. Sul»sa1ptlons mey be purdlesect for UO per yeer ISI D per semester) from The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Deme, lndlene 46556. Second ct•u post"• peld, Notr. D•me. lndlene, 46556. . The Observer 11 e member of the Auocleted Preu. All repro­duction rights .,. reaervecl. 


Carole, a shapely 24-year-old ~~~~~~~~~·~-...................~~·~·~..~~~~~~~-.<1111111~
brunette, and Viki, a perky 
18-year-old blonde, just happen to~ 
be Callahan's daughters. • 
Carole. a former dispatcher for~ 
JUfJfJlER 

the Broward County Sherift''s officer 
is now on regular patrol, and her 
Nlllte Dtlmei JtJIItnlltJI Me Alii,

sister is assigned to the fingerprint • 
lab. 

"I catch a lot of ribbing abou~ 
them being my angels," Callahan 
says. "particularly that one's a l 
blonde and one's a brunette. And r 
they are good-looking." S.tl m•n•ctiJIIIItJ :
..

"They say, 'Dad, don't call us your angels.' 
Sfutllnl Alllrll111 tJII/1e,
But it can't be~ 

stopped." 
ulo,_,, tJr 1tJ Eng111/1 tJII/11 IIJIJ O'SIIag

Callahan, who has been chied 
since 1973, has mixed emotions about his daughters following in his 
/JtJstllne: AIII/I

gumshoes. 
"They're adults," he said with a ~.................~.....~......MIIII.~·~·~·~~~~.,.....~ sigh. "I neither encouraged them • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • e e e e e e e • • e • e 
nor discouraged them. Obviously, • e I'm proud of them. But having • 
N t D c rt B d • 

been a police officer for 22 years I e 0 re arne once an e 
know what they really face in the • • field." • • But Callahan can only blame • 
Spr·lng Con,·ert • 

himself for the career asp irati 1ns of • .... • his onlv ~·o children. • • They grew up in a how;e e : stocked with police scanners and • 
Thursday, March 30 8:15pm. • 

radios that blared 24 hours a day; • • 
Christmas presents were likely to • • 
be fingerprint kits; Carole's cat was • • 
dubbed "Signat20." • Athletic and Convocation Center • 
"Daddy always saved the best • • homicide pictures for dinner, and • University of Notre Dame • 
we g:rew up with gory pictures at • • 
the table because that't when we • • 
were all together," Carole said. • • 
• 
• 

Carole remembers her first date e • when she was 15 years old. When • • the young man arrived, Callahan e : 
greetc:d him with, "Your picture • 
Adm.ISS.IOn Free • 

was taken as you entered the door. • • Now ifyou will just step over to the • • table so I can take your • • fingerprints ... " • e "We never saw him again," 'e I 
Vic~.:s~i~.~i~~.~.~~~~~~-~:......,·.·. ··.~· ,.,.~_.._.tp.~ ~-········~·~ .• ••··•·•·•·.•... e • • • • • • • • • • • 
Wednesday, Mardi 29, 1978 
the observer 
3

At Hayes -Healy 
Gurley lectures on Marx and Third World 

by PhD WUdenhain 

John Gurley, professor of eco­nomics at Stanford University, lectured last night before a crowd of 70 in Hayes-Healy Auditorium. His topic: A Marxian view of Third World development. 
Gurley, a noted author and lecturer, traced the evolution of the world from the capitalistic society of the early twentieth century to the three world divisions we know today. Quoting frequently from Marx, Gurley spoke critically of capitalism and stated, • 'The Bolshe­vik uprising of 1917 was the first successful Marxist assault on the capitalistic citadel." 
Gurley centered his talk around the inequality of wealth distribu­tion in Third World countries. He also criticized the inequality of wealth among capitalist nations stating, "The economic inequality among these nations is becoming ever larger." 
Although he acknowledged that some third world countries have made considerable progress under the capitalist system, Gurley stated that this progress aids only a certain portion of the population. He_ said, "The rapid development of Third World countries is of no help at all to one-third of the population. 
Gurley also pointed out that this rapid development occurs in a U-shaped form. He referred to the initial decrease in per capita in­come and employment that occurs before this rapid increase in eco­nomic development. He added that this development produces both 


John Gurley, professor of economics at Stanford University. [photo by Dave Rumbach] 
Commission vi-ews Radio City as possible landmark 
NEW YORK [AP] • Radio City Music Hall, scheduled to be closed April 12, should be desig­nated an "interior historic land­mark," the City Landmark Preset· vation Commission said yesterday. such a designation prohibits altera­tions of the art deco interior but not demolition of the building. 
The commission's recommenda­tion, which goes to the city's Board of Estimate for action, would not permanently save Radio City. but a commission staff member said it would result in a delay of at least a year of any .move toward demoli· tion. 
Rockefeller Center Inc., which owns Radio City, has not disclosed what it plans to do with the hall after it is closed. Rockefeller Center president Alton Marshall has threatened to challenge the city's landmark designation law in court. 
Carter's speech 
Lt. Gov. Mary Anne Krupsak, 
who has been leading the fight to 
save the hall, said in a statement 
after the commission's vote: "I am 
·absolutely overjoyed and convinced 
that Radio City Music Hall will be 
saved." 
In announcing last JanuarJ that 
the home of the world-famed, 
high-kicking Rockettes would close 
after the Easter Show, Marshall 
cited dwindling attendance and 
revenues, and projected the hall's 
1978 losses would be more than 
$3.5 million. 
Attendance at the 45-year-old 
theater averaged about 5 million 
yearly until 1867. after that year, 
attendance at the 6,200-seat 
theater gradually dropped to less 
than 2 million last year. 
But after it was announced that 
the hall would close, attendance 
began picking up. 
Hours announced 
The Angela Athletic Facility will 
remain open until 11 o.m. every.

'welcome gesture' night, resuming theoperatinghours 
it observed before a sertes of 
to Venezuelans campus-wide energy cutbacks. "equilibrium and inequilibrium" 

in society. He concluded, "Devel­
opment cannot be an interrupted 
growth process protected from 
external antagonists, for antago­
nists exist within the capitalist 
system itself." 
Gurley also criticized capitalism 
because "the capitalist mold builds 
on efficiency which is often contra­
dictory to equality." He believed 
that cheating and subversion are 
rewarded in a capitalist economic 
system. 

Gurley did not refute capitalists' 
explanations of the inequality of 
wealth in Third World nations. He 
believed present information was 
inconclusive. But he did add that 
these nations are often treated like 
"children with childhood ills that 
must be worked out.'' He also 
stated that the inefficiency and 
ineptness of underdeveloped coun­
tries are often beneficial to 
advanced capitalist nations. 
Surprisingly, Gurley was not 
above criticizing Marxists. He 
believed they should examine the 
capitalists' views although he 
thought they should question them. 
He suggested that Marxists 
examine the situations surrounding 
Third World countries that have 
become successes as capitalists. 
"Marxists are trained to be highly 
suspicious," stated Gurley, "They 
greatly mistrust surface data." 
Gurley concluded his presenta­
tion by stating that capitalist 
development caused the inefficien­
cies of underdeveloped nations 
because these inefficiencies are 
beneficial to developed capitalist 
countries. Gurley added, "This 
development creates the revolu­
tionary condition required to over· 
throw capitalism." 
Bergin participates in conference 
Thomas P. Bergin, dean of continuing education at Notre Dame, was a participant this week in the annual conference of the National Art Education Association in Houston. He presented a talk, "Arts in Education," and was a member of a panel discussil)g "Government Effect on Art Education Programs.'' 
Bergin was recently named to the National Advisory Committee on the Arts, a group organized to formulate policy for overall quality programming in maintaining national and international interest in the arts and aesthetic education. 
Lemans 
Academy 
interview sign-ua~i;:::====~~5U~iili:===~ 
Sign-ups for interviews with Lemans Academy will be this week 
at  the  Placement  Bureau.  
Interviews  will  be  conducted  
Tuesday.  

Lemans Academy is a private military academy for students 9-15 years of age and is located in Rollin Prairie, IN. 20 miles from South Bend. 
The position available is that of dormitory' supervisor. For details and to sign up for an interview, contact the Placement Bureau in Room 213 of the Administration Building. 
. . 

j-"-.'"''10\:\~"*'X~"'"'"'"'''"''''"'w-:--J 
[continued from page 1] 
==== ·:::: 1if:. 1ii:_lt s Com 1ng. •• ====~ Carter's visit to Caracas. One will :;:; ':f::. 1if:. ·:if:. :;:;! establish Caribbean fishing boun-t ·:if::. ·i!f:: ·i!f:. ~;~; daries between the two nations and ;:;: ·:if:, ':f:: 'if;. ;:;: another will pledge joint efforts to ;:;: :if::. ·:lf:: ·:~:. :~:; curb illegal traffic in narcotics. ;:;: ':if:. ':f::. 'if::. :;: But the most important agree· ;:;: ·if:. ·::;. ':;:. ;:; ment they said, will deal with;:;: u ht 8 t t t 1• ht ;:;
cooperation in the areas of science :::: 9 • U 00 00 19 • ::: and technology. Perez is a leader:~;; o:· ··~. ·~· :~: in efforts to promote Latin Ameri-::;: ·if:: ·::::. 'if:: ::: can ~c9.ngm_ic .•d~yeloplllelij: .. ,..•.•. i~=:=:+:=:=::::::;:::::;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::.=::::~::::::::~::::x:::~·=;•::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ••• 
The results of such successful O'Shaughnessy. He will give a revolutions will be the topic of John Marxist's view of Socialist develop­Gurley's next presentation to be held ment. at ~3:30 m. in room 242 
Gu·rJey lectured last night on "A Marxian view of Third World Development." [photo by Dave Rumbach] 

1978 . 79 
Cheerleading Tryouts 

/. · 1n\~ ~r,Wr' ., "' "
';('I ~ "-;­
/f \i' ~ 
All Notre Dame and St. Mary's students interested in trying out 
for a Cheerleader or Leprechaun position: 
Sign up this week in the Student Activities Office. 
Any questions call 7308 
.Tryouts will be held the week of April 2nd • 

7.00 
Monday 8: pm 

Tickets now on sale at Student Union Ticket office and ACC Box Office 
1..--------~.,.,..--~----------------' 


wn ~y, ~rch 29, 1978
tbe ob&MV&r 

Notre Dame accepts ~2 million in research grants fojr February 
Notre Dame has accepted $2,297,321 in awards for the month of February to support individual faculty research projects, facilities and equipment, and innovative educational and service programs, according to Robert E. Gordon, vice president for Advanced Stu­
dies.  
A wards  for  research  totaled  
$2,138,938 and included!  
--$1,670,000  from  the  Depart­ 

ment of Energy for stud)' of the effects of radiation on matter by the Radiation Laborator, directed by Robert H. Schuler. 
--$135,213 from the National Science Foundation (NSF) for study of earthquake response and aseis­mic design of underground piping systems by Teoman Ariman, asso­ciate professor of aerospace and mechanical engineering. 
--$92,729 from the Nationallnsti­tues of Health (NIH) for develop­ment of parasitic worms in the laboratory by Paul P. Weinstein, professor of biology. 
--$74,572 from NIH for study of colo-rectal carcinogenesis in germ­free rats by Morris Pollard, chair­man and professor of microbiology and director of Lobund Laboratory, and Tomoaki Asano, associate pro­fessor of microbiology. 
--$64,574 from NIH for structure 
and function studies on plasmino­
gen and plasmin by Francis J. 
Castellino, professor of chemistry. 
--$50,000 from NSF for study of 
quadratic forms and group theory 
by 0. Timothy O'Meara, Kenna 
Professor of Mathematics. 
--1 30,000 from NSF for experi­
mental research in high energy 
elementary particle physics by a 
team of physics professors includ­
ing Nripendra N. Biswas, Neal M. 
Cason, V. Paul Kenny and William 
D. Shepherd. 
--$10.000 from the American Chemical Society for study of the generation and reactions of a-halo ketone enol ate anions by Conrad J. Kowalski, assistant professor of chemistry. 
--$9,850 from the U.S. Army for study of the feasibility of using a wind tunnel to study models by Robert C. Nelson and William B. Roberts, assistant professor of aerospace and mechanical engin­eering. 
--$2,000 from the Tyler Refriger­ation Division, Clark Equipment Co., for coil optimization for vol­ume and performance by K.T. Yang, chairma9 and professor of aerospace and mechanical engin­eering. 
Awards for educational pro-
Supreme Court declares judges free from lawsuits 
WASHINGTON [AP] -The 
Suprc:me Court. despite angry 
disagreement by three members. 
said yesterday that judges virtually 
are immune from lawsuits by 
women they have ordered sterilized 
-even when such orders are 
mistakes. 
Voting 5-J in a major decision on 
judicial immunity, the court said an 
Indiana judge who approved a 
mother's request that her unsus­
pecting teen-aged daughter be 
sterilized was not subject to 
damages. 
Judges cannot be sued for 
damages unless they act in "a clear 
absence of all jurisdiction," the 
court said in adhering to a judicial 
immunity doctrine fashioned in an 
1871 Supreme Court decision. 
Judges' mistakes -even malici­
ous mistakes -are shielded by 
immunity. that doctrine says. so 
judges facing difficult decisions 
remain uninfluenced by fear of 
personal consequences. 
Yesterday's decision reversed a 
federal appeals court's ruling that 
LeKalb County, In, Circuit Judge 
Harold D. Stump could be sued for 
his sterilization order. 
The 7th U.S. Circuit Court of 
Appeals had ruled that Stump's 
order was not a judicial act 
"because of his failure to comply 
with elementary principles" of 
constitutional law. 
An opinion by Justice Byron R. 
White said that Stump had the 
authority to issue the order so any 
possible misuse of authority is 
beyond legal challenge. 
Justice Potter Stewart, Thurgood 
Marshall and Lewis f. Powell Jr. 
dissented, calling Stump's order 
"lawless conduct." 
"I think what Judge Stump did 
on July 9, 1971, was beyond the 
pale of anything that could sensibly 
be called a judicial act," Stewart 
said in an opinion for the three. 
Taking the rarely used privilege 
of reading his dissent from the 
bench, Stewart said, "A judge is 
not free. like a loose cannon, to 
intlictindiscriminateklamage when­
ever he announces that he is acting 
in his jucicial capacity." 
"A judge's approval of a mother's petition to lock her daughter in the attic would hardly be a judicial act simply because themother had submitted her ·petition! to the judge in his official capacity," Stewart said. 
Linda Kay and Leo Sparkman of Kendallville, In, sued in 1975 seeking damages for the tubal lieation performed on Mrs. Spark­man four years previously. 
Then Linda Kay Spitler of Auburn, In., Mrs. Sparkman was 1~ when her mother decided she had to undergo the operation. 
In Indiana. Mrs. Sparkman said she is considering lawsuits against her mother, doctors and the hospital where the operation was conducted, but added, "I don't know if I can go through with any more." 
''It really hurt me since we lost. It hurt me really bad," she said. 
Mrs. Sparkman's mother. Ora Spitler McFarlin, presented a legal document to Judge Stump seeking permission for the sterilization. 
The mother claimed her teen­aged daughter had begun dating and staying overnight with older youths and men. She said her daughter was somewhat retarded. 
Judge Stump approved the mother's request without holding a hearing or informing the teen-ager of his action. 
Mrs. Sparkman was told she was to have her appendix removed. She did not learn of her tubal ligation until two years after her 1973 marriage. She is now 22. 
She sued, charging she had been denied her constitutional rights to due process, that her privacy had been invaded and that she was subjected to cruel and unusual punishment. 
A federal trial judge ruled that St·Jmp was protected by the judicial immunity doctrine "may...appear to have been premised on an erroneous view of the law." 
The 7th Circuit overturned that ruling, but in turn was reversed by the Supreme Court. 
"We cannot agree that there was a clear absence of all jurisdiction ... Judge Stump performed the type of act normally performed by 
judges...," said White's opinion. 
Joining White were Chief Justice Warren E. Burger and Justices harry A. Blackmun, William H. Rehnquist and John l Paul Stevens. 
Justice William J. Brennan Jr. was ill when the court held a hearing on the case and took no part indeciding it. 
"I certainly am grateful for the finding of the maioritv of the court," said Stump Tuesday\ "It is a great relief personally and from the communications I receive from judges throughout the country; I'm sure it will be a relief to them also." 
He said the ruling will make it grams totaled $9,120 and included: 
easier  for  courts  to  act  more  
effectively  in  cases  involving  
juveniles.  

--$2,460 from the Council for International Exchange of Scholars for a Distinguished Lectureship Series directed by Charles K. Wilber, chairman and professor of economics. 
--$850 from the Indiana Arts commission for the Sophomore Literary Festival administered by Bro. John Benesh, director of student activities. 
--$810 from the National En<:low­ment for the Arts for a visi 1g artist and lecture program directed by Moira M. Geoffrion, assis,;111' professor of art. 
Notre Dame also received $19,263 for service programs in the Center for Pastoral and Social Ministry, including $7,779 for the Notre Dame Institute for Clergy Ed<Jcation directed by Fr. RobertS. Pelton· $7,617 for a needs assess­ment program in the Center for Human Development directed by Fr. Vincent Dwyer, and $3,867 for the Notre Dame Center for Pastoral Liturgy directed by Fr. John Gal­len.. 
The Department of Energy a­waded $130,000 to the Radiation Lal:uratory for facilities and equip­ment. 
ROCCO'S 
BARBERS 
hairstylists 
531 N. Michigan 233-4957 

A new Xerox copier was installed in' LaFortune over spring bret~k. 


Our course will take you deep into the Third World, to some of the most depressed and oppressed places on earth. To God's Country. As a Maryknoll Missioner, you can share the love of God with lhese, His people. You can bring them hope and peace and dignity. 
You will practice some very practical Christianity, too. You migh1 set up adult education classes, show a starving farmer how to improve his crop, or a struggling worker how to Improve his lot. Most of all, you will share the Gospel of Jesus Christ. 
You will learn and keep on learning tht rest of your life. You will learn and share their language, of course. But also their culture, traditions and, yes, their religion. You will learn the quality of joy that can only come from doing unto others, because all the while you give yourself to their lives, they give meaning to yours. Send us the coupon or call toll free (800) 431-2008. 
r~-----------------------------------~~1 
Please tell me more about a lifetime career as a Maryknoll Missioner. 
Maryknoll Missioners 
people who give their lives for people 
DIRECTOR OF ADMISSIONS • M1ryknoll Mlsalonars • M1ryknoll, N.Y. 10545 
Dear Father: 
Please send me information about becoming a Maryknoll D Priest D 13rother 
Name ____________________ 
Address --------------
Clty·__________State ____...Zip Code,_______ 
_____Class_______________ Age___Phone 
College•-------____YearofGraduatlon

L_____L__--------'~;;;-·..::·--~---'-'--....-------------_-_-_-_-_-_-__-_-_-__-_-______. 


Wedoesdav. Ma.rch_29. 1978 the observer 
.·. .· Dangerf~eld
Rodney C edtan
famous. om 
FE· ..• _., ..... '.a ....

I •• 

opinion~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
From Revolt To Subrnissidn 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii_,..an dy cashio Ia 
What I proffer here is merely an this generation ofyouth with that of being admitted with the same opinion, admittedly based upon the sixties. passiive characters. severe generalizations. We claim a special sort of music, I dlo not wish to go into a tirade 
When I think about the youth of also. It is called Disco. It is very about the ills of Notre Dame. Ask the sixties. it is hard for me not to expressive and meaningful, positing Dear.1 Roemer what priority student be romantic. Theirs was a impressionistic statements such as: inter•:'!sts hold in administrative 
generation trapped by the stupidity "Shake your booooody" and "I'm policy. Ask a rape victim next time of their elders' decisions. They a brick house." The timelessness you pay for a parking violation. were forced to fight in a war which of this music is pellucidly apparent: Pondler what a student is 
they neither started, nor wished to Merely observe how long "Disco considered when his or her continue. It was fundamentally a Duck" has remained on the charts. education is labeled: "a mismanaged war, a mistake: As a matter of fact, everytime I see comparative bargain." Under that utilitarian-thought-made-actual people dancing or listening to this philosophy, we seem to have through spilled blood. music. I'm overcome with this become basement-bargain com­
There was in that generation a anticipation that we are all going to modities--packaged and' ready for unique art. their music: The jump up and each scream: "I'm use itt four or five years, depending Beatles. the Grateful Dead, the glad I'm a conformist!" upon equipment ordered. Allman Brothers. Jimi Hendrix, There is a fighting spirit in this This generation and our student Neil Young, Janice Joplin, Bob generation: I'm not trying to sell it body is probably not weak and Dylan. Stephen Stills.... This was short. History will record it as gullible. Yet, we do accept a lot the music they grew up with, and being responsible for the most that we should not have to. Ten which likewise grew up with that famous peaceful attack ever: years ago. a word became a reality generation. Timeless music, millions of us pouring to McDon­for an intensified generation, expressive of some son of fever. It ald's to buy Big Macs. Maybe revolllltion. The word carried both was excellent music. and remains there is just nothing to tight for, or meaning and energy: it powered so. against, anymore. To remedy this the youth clean out of an 
Then there were demonstrations. want of spunk and vigor, we have atmosphere steeped in trivialities, 
There was Kent State. and cut our hair, shaved our beards, and into a libertine stratosphere of r'loodstock. Violations of civil hooked up our bras. and decided to pure feeling. -ights begot ghetto riots. There sit through college so we can fight Today we shy away from it, 
*The Observer 
an independent newspa1Joer serving the notre dame and saint mary's community 
The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as po~sible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Edrtonal Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters are the views of their authors. Column space if available to all m~~bers of the community, and the free expression of varying oprnrons on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
Tony Pace Editor-in-Chief Steve Odland Managing Editor John Calcutt 
Executive Editor Barb Langhenry Executive Editor Rosemary Mills Editorial Editor 
Phil Cackley Copy Editor Jean Powley St. Mary's Editor 
Ann Gales 
News Editor Mike Lewis 
News Editor Diane Wilson 
News Editor Ray O'Brien Sports Editor Bryan Gruley 
Features Editor 
Box Q 
Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
Wednesday, March 29, 197.8 

was Haight-Ashbury, Ken Kesey, each other for jobs when we perhaps. because. it's too radical. seriously, folkS!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~ and Timothy Leary ... LSD. speed, graduate. too ~~xtreme. It demands ' hnoin. pot. cocaine. mescalline. Campus unrest still bubbles responsibility and the onus of and Day-glo paint... Beatnicks, occasionally. At Notre Dame, a freedom. Or maybe this generation 
r Disneyland Is Not Enough
hippies. yippies. and straights. disheartened youth might lodge a doesn't want to be bothered byI God was dead. but Billy Graham complaint about the social life: such !thoughts at all. Besides. was laughing all the way to the they say the school is co-ed, but energy is not so abundant iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii...iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii--cJrt buchwald 
bank. There was a sexual remains predominately male. No anymore. Might as well just play it revolution, a space-age revolution, one thinks, or tries, to initiate any out like the driver who is "running Washington--Hardly a week goes "What should I say?" and Star Trek. There was, in all of sort of student role in admission. on empty.'' by when some head of state doesn't "Just say the ties between this. energy. Not just in oil. but in Instead, we succumb to a basically I would never back a revolution, visit Washington. In the old days if Zemululu and the United States are people. fascist Presfdent and his band of though. Revolt derives from they saw Disneyland while they stronger than they have ever been, But. of course. that generation Trustees. The administrators hold reason and might. Some folks trust were in the United States they went and the admiration for America as has passed. It trailed a little into that students here do not want to in these. but as for me. they seem home happy. the preserver of peace is something the seventies, and few of its take on such responsibilities. And to last only as long as people are But things have changed. Most every Zemululan cherishes." 
remnants linger. As this decade they are probably right. So the willing to adhere to them. Then heads of state now come to "All right, but I think we're moves through its denouement, processional of mediocrity contin­again. the only emotion I feel for Washington to see how much wasting a lot of time. I have only maybe it is worthwhile to compare ues. with the same kind of students submissiveness is pity. military aid they can get out of the two days here." 
United States. The Zcmululan president made 
Several weeks ago the president his remarks which were followed by of Zemululu arrived in Washington a 21-gun salute. for a State visit. The Zemululan The Zemululan president took ambassador to the United States out a notebook, "I almost forgot

~~P. 0. BOX Q~~ 
met him at the plane, as did the the cannons. How many 105-mm American secretary of state and an cannons should I ask for?" honor guard from the U.S. Army, The ambassador replied, "I 
had foung its way over to the 
U.S. Marines and U.S. Air force. think th(:y said they'd give us

Bradley ()bserver
LaFortune student center. This 
The Zemululan ambassador five." 
I • • I new addition to LaFortune's 
whispered to the president, "The "Five? My generals told me to

ImpreSSIVe commended
facilities completes the great first thing you must do is review come back with no less then SO." LaFortune-Library transformation the honor guard.'' "We'll talk about it later. We
Dear Editor,
Dear Editor, process. Notre Dame can now The president said, "Those are have to go into lunch." claim to be the only school in the I agree with Mr. Bender's nice rifles they're carrying. Can I The Zemululan president said, 
On the night of March 13, I was world where the library sounds like proposal to upgrade The Observer. have them?" "When can we go to the Pentagon fortunate to attend the talk given a social center and the social center Afterall. he was elected because "No," said. the ambassador, and see the stuff?" by Bill Bradley. Though not sounds like a library. The Ob11erver failed to mention his "not yet. First we have to take a "We have to lunch with the anticipating the political forum that ineffectiveness It is no helicopter to the White House President and Mrs. Carter first.
This transformation never 

ensued. I was thoroughly pleased one's fault but Mr. Bender's for where President Carter will greet After that we have to place a
bothered me, in its early stages

with the sequence of events that failure to followup on the letter. you." wreath at the Lincoln Memorial."
because LaFortune has a better 

unfolded. An exuberant and Regarding the proposal for a After reviewing the troops the "That will blow the whole after­
atmosphere for studying than the

satistied audience watched as Mr. commission to "evaluate" The president of Zemululu got into the noon," the Zemululan president
library anyway. But adding a

Bradley, with an ease, confidence Observer. I ask. what does the helicopter. "Should I ask the complained.
Xerox machine was too much;

and congeniality that I have never Student Body President, Campus secretary of state for 24 of these?" "The Pentagon is just over the
LaFortune will now provide even

before witnessed in a public Life Council Member and a "It's too early in your visit. We bridge from the memorial, Mr.
the sterile sounds of copy machines 

·speaker. fielded a variety of Hall President know about the have to go through formalities." President. We can go there after questions covering such topics as usually associated with libraries workings of a newspaper? I profess The president looked very dis­the wreathlaying." cancer research and solar energy; and post-offices. I don't have not to be very knowledgeable about appointed. "How late do they stay open?" 
to judicial and social welfare anything against Xerox machines journalism but I do know The The helicopter landed on the "Five o'clock." reform; the Panama Canal Treaty themselves; for I too am an ardent Observe1r has ''financial accounta­White House Lawn where Presi­"Five o'clock? I won't even have and the sale of arms abroad. So di·;ciple of the recent copy cult. I bility" and "effectiveness." An dent and Mrs. Carter were waiting time to pick up any gunboats for impressive was Mr. Bradley's even like the idea of having a Xerox advisory board keeps a watchful to meet the party. President Carter our navy." knowledge of every topic and machine located in LaFortune. It eye over the newspaper but more made his opening remarks calling "We'll go back the next morn­question raised that not once did he would be nice, however, if it could importantly it is up to the students Zemululu one of the great countries ing." hesitate in giving an answer, all of be moved to a more secluded to examine any Observer ineffici­of the world and a friend the United "Suppose all the F-lSs are gone which were direct and to the point. corner of the building. encies. The students agreed to the States could not do without. by then?" Many distinguished and interest­six dollar raise and have in the past The Zemululan ambassador said "The Pentagon always keeps a
LaFortune Student Center didn't

ing speakers have appeared at protested when they are not out of the side of his mouth, "It is dozen in the stockroom for its
have much to offer in the way of

Notre Dame this year, but satisfied. There is no need for now your turn to respond." special friends. Oh, by the way,
atmosphere before break, but this

Mr. Bradley was without question another watchdog on The Observe~ "Good, I'll ask him for two there is a State dinner tonight and
latest addition can only further

the most fascinating. The casual. Marti Hogan and her staff are squadrons of F-lSs and three Beverly Sills is going to sing."
detract from the casual, friendly

informal atmosphere of the Library doing an excellent job reporting the squadrons of F-16s." "That's nice. Maybe I can talk
atmosphere that LaFortune was

Lounge only added to the pleasant news. After all, Mr. Bender, they "Wait. It's not the time. You President Carter out of some cruise
originally meant to provide.

evening. The Young Democrats kept you and cohort Tom Gryp on never ask for military equipment in missiles during Madame Butter­
made a very wise choice in your toes. selecting Bill Bradley to speak to John Carpenter the students. and I hope they will continue to search for comparable 
ON~ CI'IY I'M !AJiATElH& 601N6 70 GI3T MATTCR /JJI7H
speakers in the future. 

IIOiJJ4RI) FOR YOU, RICK? }()() JOAN!&, SHOI/LO B&
William A. Hickey· 

fie&•• SO cXCrreD! 
?i 
" \ 
Change ::) 
m
•1n LaFortune fB 
z 
Dear Editor: 
0 
0 
I was surprised after break to c discover that one of the Libr:.ry Xerox machines had asexually reproduced itself and its off-spring 
the Rose Garden. It's against fly." 
Drew Dan.ik protocol." 
~~----~------~ ABOIJTMIAT? eiGHTl:¥l'15 OH, 8C510C5, YOU SHOlliJ ~ ~[) QV A 707 /JJI7H ~MON. PRO/Jl), RE/?FE3R!Y! MJT HfR0£3 OF a@Nm/ T.V. IT &VER'tDf.l& !5 OI05&N TO 7W-INICJAN9. YOtJ !XJN'T Be ll?AVEL tf/!TH 711£ EL.fTE KNOW WHAT IT'S Ul<£! 8AO.. WHIT& HOUSE PR£55 W?Psi 
\ 
Los Angeles Times Syndicate 
AT!eNTlON!  OON7  
zoo PIAN&  FORGET  I'LL  
NotU 8JAR!)­ M& 7DO  TRY.  
/  lNG/  (){}~CKLY..  ~!  
-I  



wednesdav, March 29, 19::.:7-=-a------'tb_...,e,.__.o<..ob""'se<.JIIIU..-rv..Le"'"'r..___-=-7 




pictures display _e • various symptoms in e e spite ot tne e • remaining evidence ,. • 
of winter. • : Another thought to : • keep in mind is • pre-reg;srranon : • 
·(see ·below(. e -Special 10% Discount e 
• · On All M~r~handise To Notre Dame :
•
•. · & Saint Marr 's_Students. . • 
,....................... 
,_fiOGOSTI"IA"S 



"HOW CAN I MAKE MY LIFE W.ORTHWHILE?" 
One way may be to live within the Augustinian Fraternity. When you come to live with us, you observe and participate in our community life for several years before making a final commitment. Vou observe that we are a religious community following the charism of St. Augustine and "that together and with one heart In brotherhood and spiritual friendship, we seek and worship God and that we labor in the service of the people 
of God." We serve '"' colleges, high schools, parishes, foreinn missions, ca1.epus ministries, retreats, hospitals and military chaplaincies. 
WANT MORE INFORMATION? CONTACT: Father Bill Waters, O.S.A. Villanova University P.O. Box 338 Villanova, PA 19085 (215) 525-56'12 
Name 
j Addreee__________
L__C-Ity--_-__ ;-~~~~--S-ta_te_~_-~---Zip
:::._'o_r_Occ_·:=====-=--=-~-__Age.____=-J 


r---­
---~ 
;'•,. 

W~y, .\Urch 29,19711
the observer
8 

Campus Briefs 
History Contest 
The Committee on the History of the University has announced that it will again award a prize of $50 for the best historical study of any aspect of Notre Dame life. Entries typed and double-spaced, must be sent by April 7 to Fr. Thomas E. Blantz. C. S.C .. University archivist and committee chairman. All undergraduates and graduate stu­dents of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's are eligible. 
Halfway House Funds Needed 
A three monthg fundraising 
effort was begun recently for 
Phoenix House. a new halfway 
house for alcoholic woman in 
Michiana. The fundraising drive 
has as its goal a total of $150,000 to 
cover the operation of Phoenix 
House for the next three years. A 
non-protit corporation has been 
formed to operate the facility, 
which is located at the former Saint 
Mary's Academy on Miami Road in 
South Bend. 
Phoenix House will offer a much 
needed service. providing food, 
shelter. and a homelike. non-drink­
ing environment for recovering 
alcoholic women in the South Bend 
area. Contributions to Phoenix 
House may be sent to P.O. Box 
1222. South Bend. In 46624. For 
further information call 291-2757. 
ND Band Spring Concert 
Notre Dame Concert Band will 
present its annual Spring Concert 
at the ACC on Thursday at 8:15 
p.m. 
The concert will be the last in a 
series that has taken the band 
through Illinois. Indiana. Louisi­
ana. Missouri. Oklahoma, Tennes­
see and Texas. 
Faculty Concert 
Carol S. Dzikowski, soprano, and Jeffrey Noonan. guitar and lute, will present a Faculty Duo Concert in the Little Theatre at Saint Mary's College on Thursday at 8:00 p.m. 
Dzikowski earned a bachelor of 
music degree in education at Saint 
Mary's and a master of music 
degree from Western Michigan 
University. 
Noonan earned a bachelor of arts degree from the University of Notre Dame and a bachelor of Music degree from Hartt College of Music. He is also on the faculty of Indiana University at Fort Wayne. 
Summer Study in England 
Eastern Michigan University is offering a summer foreign study program in England for students who elect to take one or both of the program's two courses. Students can earn three hours of graduate or undergraduate credit each for "The State of English in Two Cultures" and "Film: The Hurrian Document." 
The first course, which is' a comparative study of methods of teaching English in British and American schools, will run from June 24 to July 14. It will be taught by Frank Ross, professor of English at Eastern, and Thomas P. Piettas 
of the Ann Arbor Public Schools. 
The film course begins July ,15 and will continue through Aug. ;4. A study of several films, primarily British, the course is aimed at developing critical insights into the art of cinema and seeing it as an important means of recording human 'experience. The instructor will be Paul D. McGlynn, professor of English at Eastern, who has The cost of each course is $525, 
which includes 21 nights in Univer­
sity housing and breakfast each 
day. Air fare is not included. 
A deposit of $100 is required 
with each application. For informa­
tion or an application, write the 
Office of International Studies, 
Eastern Michigan University, 
Ypsilanti, Mich. 48197, or call (313) 
487-2424. 
Professor-Author Speaks onHistory 
Fr. Stanley L. Jaki will present 
an address entitled "On Whose 
Side is History? Retlections of a 
Historian of Science" on Thursday 
at 8 p.m. in the Library 
Auditorium. Jaki is one of only six 
Americans ever selected to give 
Edinburgh's famous Gifford lec­
tures, the others being William 
James, John Dewey. Josiah Royce, 
Paul Tillich and Reinhold Niebuhr. 
Distinguished University Profes­sor at Seton Hall University. Jaki holds doctorates in both physics and theology. He is the author of seven books. including The Relevance of Physics and The Road of Science and the Ways of God. 
Ethics-Energy Conference 
A conference on Christian ethics 
and energy will be held at Notre 
Dame from March 31 to April 1. 
Participants will consider the 
distinctive contributions of Chris­
tian ethics to energy-related 
problems in contemporary society. 
focusing on the ethics of energy 
production, decision making. con­
sumption and conservation. 
The meeting is cosponsored by Notre Dame's Center for Pastoral and Social Ministry and Center for the Study of Man in Contemporary Society in cooperation with the National Conference of · Catholic Bishops' Committee for Human Values. 
Most of the speakers are from the University's faculty. Bishops and Church people from Indiana and neighboring states have also been invited. The conference is open to the public. especially those involved in the energy industry. Reservations should be made with Mrs. Norma Davitt. Center for the Study of Man in Contemporary Society. 283-7212. 
Sessions will be held in the Hayes-Healy Auditorium. College of Business Administration. begin­ning at 8 p.m. Friday. Each session will offer one or more presentations plus an ethical critique or theological ret1ection. Topics will include: ·'Can There Be A Christian Ethics About Energy?" (8p.m. Friday. and on Saturday "The Ethics of Production" (9 a.m.). "the Ethics of Decision Making" (10:45 a.m.). "The Ethics of Consumption conservation" (2 p.m.), and a summary session at 3:45p.m. 
SMC Summer 
Art Workshop 
Saint Mary's art department, for the third year, is offering a two week summer program at Redbud Rail Camp in Buchanan, MI. The workshop. which is open to any college student. will run from May 22 through June 3. 
The four intensive workshop sessions, for which three credits will be given, are in raku ceramics, printmaking and drawing, and photography. The cost of $310.00 covers tuition, room and board for the full twe weeks. Also included is transportation from the Saint Mary's campus to the Redbud Trail Retreat and back. 
James Paradis; painting and drawing by Sr. Cecelia Ann Kelly; printmaking by Carol Ann Carter and photography by Douglas Tyler. There is a $15.00 additional fee for the ceramics and photography and a $20.00 fee for the printmaking. he working day will be 8:30 a.m. ­
12 noon and 1 -4:30 p.m. with an additional hour in the evening for ,guest lecturers,, discussions and :films. 
Enrollment for each class will be limited to ten and applicants will be accepted in order of registration. Interested students should send a $25.00 deposit by Sunday to Gallery Director Michele Fricke at Saint Mary's. She is the coordinator of the workshop and can be reached by phone at 284-5717 or 284-4074. 
The Redbud Trail workshop offers the student a unique opportunity for broadening one's understanding of the concept of nattKe in relation to work in a chosen area. It affords students and faculty and opportunity to live together in close harmony with nature. All workshops are structured to provide maximum use of exposure to the immediate natural environment. 

Your college degree will get you started in life after college. Army ROTC will give you a head start while you're still in college. 
Army ROTC offers you manage­and new career opportunities upon ment training. Leadership ex­graduation as a leader in the active perience. And a commission as an Army, Reserve or National Guard. Army officer. Extra credentials Here's how to get started: 
THE EULY STilT 
Start Army ROTC during your freshman o1· soph­omore year with no obligation. You'll find a curriculum that's exciting and flexible enough to fit your class schedule and academic needs. 
TIE 
STilT 
If you're a veteran or Junior ROTC graduate, then you're a jump ahead. You're already eligible to enter advanced ROTC. 

IISIC STilT 
If you're about to finish your sophomore year, apply now for our six-week summer Basic Camp at Fort Knox, Ky. You'll earn $450 and the opportunity to enter advanced ROTC next fall. 
For details, contact: 
Major John J.-Mac Neil Room 236 in the ROTC Building or Call 6264 I 6265 I 7332. 

.•111-UR. 

• O'IA'A qfl~r.e.d. ~C:, f9~~~~· .V!c:..P~h-;.~ ~' •*·,..-ot:"~~!'...;~~~~".~("~~~~; ...~ught ~~ •.•• •~ ,.'-.-:,-:#:-,-:,-.,":'#-4,":'"~":":'"••":'"~-,~4":",•":'"'~.•""!.#:"•~.~:'-::.r:o""":~""!~"::-":'•·":,":'.":',":'4"':".~~-':",·.~,!""'"-,""""':,~·~-~.-:•..,-:.-.,.,~-7"'1".,.----·-----~...-..,...,-~., 
Wednesday, March 29_!_!978__ ____.....Jtu.h.uaiL..Jioubllll~el£!rv!....!!J!e~r'---~9 
By construction workers 

Nine Indiana coal mines shut down 
CHANDLER, Ind. [AP]-With no support from their local president and very little money, Patrick Johns and his fellow construction miners have managed to shut down nine of Indiana's largest coal operations. 
Although the United Mine Workers have ratified i1 new contract with the nation's soft coal operators, the construction miners have not. And until they do. Johns says they are relying on the support of the UMW members who honor their picket lines to keep the mines clor;ed. 
Since midnight Sunday, more than 1,800 miners have been unable to return to work in south­w~stern Indiana surface mine:­because of the pickets. 
For the second straight da), pickets closed Amax Coal Co.'s 
Ayrcoe, Ayrshire and Wright Mines; both Old Ben Coal Co. mines; and Peabody Coal Co.'s Squaw Creek, Spur and Lynnville mines. Yankeetown Dock, a ship­ping operation jointly operated by A max and Peabody, also was idled by construction pickets. 
They also shut down the Lemmons mine at Loogoottee, prompting mine operator Frank Foltz to Jay off the 36 UMW members there, according to Lloyd Kinder, president of Local 1955. 
University 
McCusker, a 1965 graduate resid-+ ing in Omaha and former resident + of Sout}l BenJ. The son of+ Professor Emeritus and Mrii. Pat-+ rick A. McCusker, McCusker is an+ attorney engaged in estate plan-+ . nin.;, tax and cor_porate practices •• 
wtth an Omaha Ia" firm. He is 
prc;<dent of the Notre Dame Club: 
of Omaha-Council Bluffs, a director + 
of College World Series and the + 
Brandeis FounJation. His father+ 
wa~ a member of the chemistry + 
faculty at Notre Dame for 33 years. + 
Robert F. Chickey of St. Loms, + 
president and chief executive offi-•• 
cer of Schroeder & Curry, Inc., has + 
been named to represent alumni in + 
the Missouri-Iowa area. He is a+ 
member of the Missouri Gover-+ 
nor's Advisory Council, a former+ 
president of the Notre Dame Club t 
of St. Louis and recipient of its Man t 
of the Year A ward in 1969. + 
The new director for New England states is George D. Wil­
of a commercial real estate firm. 
He,has been active in Notre Dame 
activities in the Boston area where 
he serves as a member of the 
Massachusetts Bay Transportation 
Authority advisory council and as a~ selectman for his community. Anthony Mileto, a 1961 graduate residing in Baltimore, will repre­sent the Mid-Atlantic states. President of Professional Design Associates, he has served as senior architect with a consulting firm designing the Baltimore Rapid Transit System. He is also a former president of the Notre Dame Club and recipient of the Man of the Year Award in Baltimore. Frank T. Callahan, Jr. of Tampa, Fl. will represent the Southeast area. The 1950. graduate is president of Greiner Engineering Sciences and has been active with the Easter Seal Society, Jesuit 
High School Foundation, Florida Engineering Society and Junior, Achievement. He is a former I president of the Notre Dame Club ' "They said we could sign up for 
unemployment," Kinder said. 
''We won't be going back until at 
least Tuesday, or whenever the 
construction miners get a con­
tract.'' 
The Four Rivers mine at Lynn­
ville was not scheduled to reopen 
·ntil April t, said Danny McKin­
ney, president of Local 2080, which represents 23 UMW members there. 
"Our backs are to the wall, but l believe in what we're doing," said Johns. a member of Local 1891. ''The bottom line is that we're broke, the bank owns my car and we don't have a contract It's shabby damn shabby that we're in this situation.'· 
John:; saiJ the construction miners· strategy went into play Saturday night after the contract sending production miners back to work was signed by UMW Presi­dent Arnold Miller. 
· We don't understand why we're in thi~ situation," Johns said m a telephone interview. "We've been out 111 days now and don't have a contract offer. " 
Even the news of a temauve settlement wasn't enough to make him drop his plans to picket. Johns pledged he would be out. at the mines "until we have a signed contract.'' 

"My needs are simple, I want to 
make a living and provide a home 
for my family. But our national 
leadership hasn't even produced a 
contract offer we can consider in 
3'-h months. 
One reason could be that five of our nine negotiators in Washington are not construction miners," he said. "We don't like production · miners deciding our fate. But, that's been the policy with our union. Our contracts have been based on the production ll!iners' 
contract. 
"Our problems and_ needs are 
differen. We're a traveling union 
with rr.embers going to many 
mines. We are concerned with 
travel pay and per diem," he adds. 
''Those are the things that have 
contributed to our deciding to , picket." 
Johns and other members of his 500-member local have been opera­ting without the approval of their local nresident, Melvin Whitson, who has said he's been telling members not to picket. But they are proceeding, nonetheless, with plans to station men at each mine for each of the three shifts 
"We didn't close them all Mon­day, but that's our goal until we get a contract. However, it takes a lot of time and money for phone cails 
and  gas,"  he  remarked.  "And  
money  is  something  we  don't  
have."  


Winds, hiah seas hamper navy demolition crews 
BREST*  France  [AP)  ·  Gale- 
force  winds  and  high  seas  
prevented navy  demolition  crews  

yesterday from blowing holes in the wrecked supertanker Amoco Cadiz to release the last of its cargo into
the sea. 
French authorities want to release an estimated 5.B8 million gallons of oil from the holds to 
avoid the threat of months of leakage across the polluted Brit­tany coast. The Amoco Cadiz, which sailed under Liberian registry with an Italian captiain carried about 64. 7 mil­
lion gallons of oil when it went a~,·ound. making the accident the worst sp;~1 .n history. 
Alumni Association 
elects six new directors 
Six new directors of the Univer­Named to an At-Large Position coordinated several activities for sity Alumni Association have been on the board, a post restricted to his Notre Dame club, including elected by members of the nation­alumni who have graduated in the career night, Universal Notre wide organization. They will serve last five years. was Gregory K. Dame Night and tours to the three-year terms and attend a Ericksen, a public accountant with campus. He has also been active in 
spring meeting on the campus May tne Arthur ·Young and Comp:>ny programs of Cathedral High School 3 to 7. 

firm in Indianapolis. He has in Indianapolis.Named to represent the alumni 
in the central states was Thomas J. ·•••••••••++••••••••++••••••••+++++. 
: 
+ + + +
• 
+ + + : + + + + + + + + +
: 
+ + + 

OttlYa fe-wcan 
makeittothetop. 
Becoming a Marine officer is no small task. It demands some of the most rugged physical training th the world. Plus academic proficiency. Military skills. And the unique ability to lead. Only a very few can qualify for Marine officer training. Even fewer can make it. The demands are great, but so are(/?
the rewards. It's an exciting, fulfilling career with good pay and benefits. Want 
to get to the top? Start now. 
LaFortune 
Today through Friday 
9am.-4pm. 
No on-campus training. Officer's Com­
mission upon graduation. 

The Few.The Proud.The Marines. 

, of-west-Fiorid~r.-------------.,.....~...,~~o++<~~+<...,.~+<~H..,....~............~........w 
Officials called off efforts to the hull. These would explode at winch down frogmen fl;om heli-high tide, permitting water to flow copters onto the steep, oil-slick bow in and force out oil still trapped in section of the American-owned the holds. vessel. It broke in two after The chief of the demolition team 
h ff F saJ'd the deck was too sli'ck and
running onto a s oa1 o ranee's northwest coast March 17 when the steep and the weather too sever; steering failed. for his men to work safely. · Continuing heavy swells made it impossible for the navy experts to try and dynamite the ship's holds 
from the sea. 
Demolition plans call tor the navy crews to work at low t.;de. fixing timed plastic charges along 


''KI~~ fOR onrnl~b 
10TAI.I.Y 
DIFFERENT ? 




MI\011Z.fNES5 ~RS, ir¥£NSf, cusmM T-Sl-l'l r::<,TS, rewEIJ~.lJ~ U:At~~~ ~ooPS AND or»t:l(( ~'t Srvrr! 
~A iOT'ALl"f DtfFEli(€'1\..)\ St-\Of>.PII\Jb ~"><PE=RIE'NCt, TRL( ~IE ! ! 
§@l3lM~ MISH4WAKA 
~N f\'101'-l.-9\T. !O-'l 6c.JN. l:::t-(,;, 
~·-· ~ 
10 the observer wednesday, March 29,1978 
Authorities say 
March 28 -MUch 31 
Thb Week At The

Dorm fire apparent arson 
VINCENNES, Ind. [AP] • A fire if all the dorm residents had 
which destroyed the top floor of a returned from vacation. 
Vincennes University residence Fire Chief William Rose said the 
hall apparently was the work of fire started in the center of the hall 
arsonists, authorities said yester­and quickly spread to both ends, 
day. gutting the top floor and burning 
The State Fire Marshall's office through the roof. The first and 
was called in to investigate the second floors sustained extensive 
blaze that broke out around 3:30 water damage, said Barbara 
a.m. yesterday on the third floor of DeBoer, university public relations George Rogers Clark Hall. The director. exact cause of the fire and the "We don't know if the building extent of damages have not been is a total loss," she said. "It will determined. depend on whether it is structurally 
But students noted that there sound.'' 
had been several trash can fires in The displaced students were 
the dorm earlier in the week. In moved to available rooms in nearby 
addition, police Chief James Dalton -dorms and to temporary living 
disclosed that his office received a quarters set up at the gymnasium 
call Monday warning that a bemb and physical education complex. 
would go off in the dorm at 6 a.m. DeBoer said the university made 
yesterday. arrangements for the dorm 
Two dorm residents, John residents to call their parents to 
Krieter, 20, of Tippecanoe, and advise them of their safety. In 
Brian Heck, 18, of Edinburg, addition, she said, the college 
suffered smoke inhalation but were bookstore and the library have 
treated and released. placed needed texts on reserve for 
A~ thick smoke billowed through affected students and the univer­
the hall, the dormitory staff made a sity has arranged to 'make copies of 
room-to-room search to make sure class notes for them. 
all of the residents were evacuated. "After all, we're only five weeks 
The dormitory has a capacity of away from the end of school," she 
510, but only 460 students were said. 
registered as currently living there. Distribution points have been set 
Classes were scheduled to up for clothes donated by the resume yesterday following the university community for the fire spring break, and it was uncertain victims, she stated. 
More food stamps given; UMW strike, layoffs blamed 
INDIANAPOLIS [API-The United Mine Workers strike, coupled with related layoffs and seasonal unemployment. forced an additional 7.300 Hoosiers into the Federal Food Stamp program last month. state welfare officials said yesterday. 
State Welfare Director Wayne A. Stanton said many counties ran low on stamps and federal officials had to make an emergency shipment of almost $9 million in food stamps last month. 
The value of the February stamp issue was $7.8 million. an increase of more than $515.000 over January 1978 figures. according to welfare statistics. But Stanton said the total number of persons in the program is still more than 14 percent less than in February of last year. when 216.033 persons in 
the  program  collected  stamps  
valued at $8.6 million.  
About  870 striking  miners  

participated in the program in 
February, when strike-related electrical curtailments and unem­ployment reached a peak in Indiana, according to Allen Greene, director of the State Welfare Department's Food Stamp Division. Including the miners, 
2.000 additional households joined the stamp program in February. 
"But we only had about 400 mining families in the food stamp progrm," Greene said. "It basically was a seasonal increase rather than increase because of the strike. We usually have a seasonal increase this time of year." 
Gibson County, in the heart of the southern Indiana coal company, alone reported an extra 90-100 households into the program last month, Green said. 
Among other Hoosier mining counties, Vermillion reported an extre 30-35 persons added to the program last month; Dubois had three while Pike had 50. 
Molarity bv Michael Molinelli 
r lHMJkS FoA-SfV!N0ME A hiDE 5ACK. /c SCHOOL, SAM B'-'T h'HAT ARE YCL/ DoiNG --:;·,T ot-i IHE EA::,T r.oA~;T? 
~.-.1"·-=· 
J:M. tv',.{J;_ D r~ Ul1JN';; /F f1ADf A~LIC·+iT OET{}lUfj 
lc D.~OP ·~FF .; P~:f.A~-E ;­f.JO-~JH£.q[? ---"'-~-""" 
career Developaent Center Saint ~Bt;:44~~llege

George Rogers Clark Hall was built in 19b8 at a cost of more th $1.25 million. 
INTERVIEWS 
MAJOR DESIRED

Ofl7cers elected 
. 
Winters National Bank & Trurl Fri. March 31 ~ioe../Acct;>:n&liob/llotb 
• 'Walgreen Company Mon. April 3 -'ll Majors

The Notre Dame Judo Club 
recently elected officers for next 
* Veterana Adoiinistration Hospital Tuea. April 4 All Majora 

year. Serving as president and 
* Clark Equipment Wed. April 5 lllaineu/Courputer Seienoe 

head instructor of the club will be 
• GA.:B Bullinesa Serviees Wed. April 5 All Majora

Curt Hench. Mark Cassidy will act 
* McDonald' e Corporation 'l'hura. April 6 All Majors

as vice-president and assistant instmctor. Jim Clayton and Kim 
Action/Peace Corpa/Vista Tues. April 25 All Majors 

Rodier will fill the oftices of 
* Sign-up et.arts Tuesday, March 28, 1978 

treasurer and secretary, respec­tively. Tom Loughran will continue as the club's technical advisor. 
WORltSHOPB 

During March, Jim Clayton, Joe 
~ ll&! ~ ~£!! ~ 

Kaput and Steve Mangine com­
Intormation Gathering Wed. 7-9 Betoy MeCandle.llll

pleted instruction for the first belt 
& Job Search 3/28 p.m. TvitcheU Piano Room 

rank, the yellow belt, and were 
Skill I dentitication 7-9 Leslie \IIUaon Holy Cross 
& Resume Cl1n1c =·· 3/30 p.m. Maey Ann Dilly Parlor

promoted. 24 members of the class are continuing to work for their first promotion within the next couple of 
Open to all Saint M&ry'l!l &nd Notre nama etudenta. p;.eaae a:ign up tor all int«rYift'll 
at tb.e CDC, Student Aff'airs Wing, 175 LeMana Hall. Call the CDC tor the J.atelt 
in1'o:rmation on postponements &nd caocellat1ona.

weeks. while trainers are working 
to achieve their next rank, the orange belt. 
Beginners are still welcome, and anyone interested should call Curt Hench at 8711 for further information. 
(~arter asked to declare 2 c~ounties disaster area 
INDIANAPOLIS [API -Citing 
almost $35 million in damage 
during the past two weeks, Gov. 
Otis R. Bowen asked President 
Carter yesterday to declare flood­
ravaged Allen and Adams counties 
in northeastern Indiana a federal 
disaster area. 
Bowen's request came just one 
day after he announced that he had 
declared the two counties a state 
disaster area. 
If Carter grants the request. the 
two counties will be eligilble for 
low-interest federal loans for 
property owners and federal money 
for repairs and replacement of 
uninsured public facilities. 
''This state has experienced serious and substantial damage as a result of tlooding of the Maumee. St. Joseph and St. Mary's rivers in Allen and Adams counties," Bowen said in a letter to Carter. "This flooding began on March 15, 1978. and has continued through the present date. although the flood waters are slowly receding." 
The letter, along with a survey of the tlood damage prepared by federaL state and local engineers. was electronically transmitted to Washington. 
State Civil Defense Director Milton M. Mitnick said it may be as long as two weeks before federal officials respond 
"lit could be tonight. it could be tomorrow." Mitnick said. "I've seen them take two weeks and then not give the declaration. But sometimes they grant it within a couple of hours." 
Bowen told Carter the tlood waters crested in Adams County on Community disaster, Small Thursday at 8.7 feet above flood Business Administration and stage and in Allen county the next Farmers Home Administration day at 7. 75 feet above flood stage. loans may also be needed. the 
He listed damage at $9.94 governer said. million to public facilities, $24.5 ------::--------­
million to private property and $230.000 in agricultural losses. The two counties already have spent more than $1 million to cope with the flood, Bowen said. including about $260.000 in state aid. 
The two counties need federal money to restore public facilities. remove debris and assist in temporary housing and repair of NUIVISe€6 GOT uninsured residences. as well as YOU COWN f'
extra food stamp coupons and ,_______..__.;...;_..;.._ 
unemployment assistance. 
Uhe 
need posters in a hurry? 
ft)inJ_iam mer 

CREATIVE HAl~ DESIGN 
FOR THE SEXES 
I 
RElAXING ATMOSPHERE 
• • i 
FRE:E HAIR ANALYSIS
•nsty-pr1nts 
RK RETAU.. CENTER
the wiz of the printing biz! 
1 00 -11 x17 posters 
1637 LWW 
So. ~end
only $1 o.oo 
232·6622
203 n. main 
Appt. only. 
Downtown So Bend 289-6977 · 

N.D. Senior Class Presents: 
An Indoor Football Picnic TJ1urs.March 30At The 'Pit'of the A.C.C~ 
Featured: Highlightsof0ur4Years & All Bowl Games fJeer & Mixed Drinks May be Purchased Must Presesnt Sr. /.D. Card Time: Bpm.-12am. dmission $1 
-------~-------­
wednesday, March 29, 1978 the observer 11 

Irish fencers repeat Championship 
by Paul Mullaney Sports Writer 

KENOSHA~ Wis. -The Notre 
Dame fencers' second national title 
wasn't as long in the offing as the 
first--but the victory tasted just as 
sweet--perhaps more. Coach Mike 
DeCicco's Irish swordsmen cap­
tured their second NCAA crown in 
as many years at the 1978 finals 
held at Wisconsin-Parkside on 
March 18. 
Although Irish fencing dates back to 1934, it wasn't until last year that Notre Dame won its first collegiate championship. After 
tying NYU in the 1977 title 
competition, the Irish finally 
achieved the long-awaited distinc­
tion by winning a fence-off against 
the Eastern power. 
This year, however, there was no 
need to worry about a fnece-off to 
determine the team championship. 
DeCicco's squad had clinched the 
title well before the end was near. 
The Irish finished with 121 points, 
a safe 11 ahead of runnerup 
Pennsylvania. Wayne State. Notre 
Dame's toughest opponent of the 
regular season. finished third with 
105. while Clemson had 98. NYU, Maryland and Cleveland State tied for fifth with 97 points. 
The Irish. who had the title "in 
the bag'' according to a few of their 
loyal followers, had such a secure 
lead that all the attention focussed 
upon the individual accomplish­
ments of the three du Lac entries. 
Notre Dame's representatives 
included two defending gold 
medalists. sabreman Mike Sullivan 
and foilist Pat Gerard. and epeeist 
Bjorne Vaggo. who was ranked 
tenth nationally in Sweden before 
transferring to Notre Dame this 
semester. All three were expected 
to have excellent shots at earning 
gold medals in their respective 
weapons. 
Those opportunities were so excellent. in fact. that the Irish came within one touch from ma~ing a clean sweep of the medals. After Gerard had fought from behind to tie Wayne State's Ernie Simon for the foil lead with 19 wins each. the senior from Norridge. Ill .. suffered a 5-4 setback to Simon in a fence-off bout and settled for second place. 
Sullivan and Vaggo had already 
captured gold medals, giving 
Gerard the chance to make Notre 
Dame the first team to ever win all 
three medals, according to former 
Irish fencing coach Walter Lang­
ford. 
Vaggo won with a heart stopping performance. The competition ended with Vaggo, Penn's Chris Hanson and San Jose State's Peter Schifrin knotted at 19 bouts apiece. A tense fence-off followed to determine the gold medalist. The overtime bouts were caused by Vaggo's 5-4 Joss to Hanson in the final encounter of the regular competition. 
Schifrin and Hanson began the fence-off, with the Penn epeeist capturing the very active bout, 4-5. Vaggo then took to the strip against Schifrin in what turned out to be the longest and most pressure­packed bout of the tournament. 
The Swedish transfer masterfully laid back, trying to lull Schifrin out of his vigilant stance. The normal time allotment had long expired before either fencer showed any sign of aggression. Finally, with the audience intently stifled after what seemed to be at least ten minutes of anxiety, Vaggo moved in for the tirst and final touch to win the bout. 
Both swordmen having de­
feated Schifrin, Vaggo and Hanson 
tangled in the final fence-off bout, with the winner receiving the gold medal. Although Vaggo seemed to be appl in th d 1
Y g e same e ay

t t · th 1 
s ra egy tn e ear Y moments of the tight, action picked up as the intensity grew. With the count tied at 4-4 after regulation time, Vaggo put the final touch on Hanson, avenging the Joss which made the 
entire fence-off necessary·
From the outset, there was little doubt that Sullivan was going to 
medal. In his undefeated 
...c f 23 b h 
peuormance o outs, e served
. . . h 
more as a c1tmc1an t an a competitor. The three-time All-American was also honored by 
receiving the Michigan State Memorial trophy, given annually to the top sabre performer. 
Many spectators watched in awe as the junior from Peabody, Mass., known as "the machine" by Irish fencing loyalists, disposed of one foe after another. 
"He absolutely dominated the weapon,'' noted DeCicco of Sullivan's performance. "He beat the top of the field, every All-American in sight. It was the best fencing I've seen since Peter Westbroo_k (NYU,197~~ went un­defeated tn the final_s. 
_Because of S':'lhvan's _accolr!­phshments, DeCicco credits h1s 

Frank LaGrotta================================::=:=:===========:=:=:=:===:=:=:================::::=:::=:::::=:::========================:===:=========:===:=:=============:=:=======:====::;:;:;:;:;::===::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::=====:=====:===:=:===:===================:===========:===================================== 
Some Things I Think 
r:::=~~==z:;==;:==iit===============================================================================================:::::::::::=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:====;~~;l=i~r~t~:=~;;:r=====:=:=:=:=:=:=:=======================:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:::::::::::::::::::::::: 
assistant coach, Ed DeVivo, for being the top coach in the countrv.
-DeVivo works strictly with the sabre team. "You can't argue with results like that," said DeCicco, the 17-year mentor who triples as a Professor of Mechanical Engineer­ing and the athletic academic counselor. "Sully's record has to say something about Ed's coach-ing.'' Sullivan finished the regular season with a 41-0 mark, making him Notre Dame's all-time top fencer with a career mark of 141-2. Believe it or not, DeVivo, in his last year at Notre Dame's Law School, received five votes in the Coach of the Year ballotting, which was won by Penn's David Micahnik. . Sullivan insists naturally, that it ts not the end of Notre Dame's 
their game with Arkansas and a -few of us missed the team bus to the 
Checkerdome. We finally convinced the hotel car to take us to the arena 
for a smaJI fee and when we arrived we were greeted by two burly security 
guards who informed us that no one could get into practice without a pass. 
Two of us showed our press passes and were allowed to go through the 
gate but the other three people (none of whom had passes) were told that 
"God himself wasn't going through that gate without a pass." 
Assurances from the team managers that the three were fu.embers of the 
offi~ial_party ~id no goo~ and it appeared that they weren't going to get in 
until ~1ggerh1mself noticed the commotion and walked over. He calmly 
explatned that we were all members of the party and we had permission 
from the NCAA to watch practice. If you can believe it, the security guard 
still refused to let them in. 

Well, the guard finally yielded but the whole incident struck me as 
rat~er funny. You just don't expect people who enjoy throwing their 
wetght around to be associated with something as prestigious as the 
NCAA Basketball Tournament. 

I think all the people who call Notre Dame fans obnoxious should take noteof Kentucky fans who wear obscene tee-shirts and throw things on the 
court. I have been to many Notre Dame basketball games, both home and 
away, and I have yet to see an Irish fan throw something on the court while 
the game is in progress to protest a bad call by the official. And while 
we're on the subject... 

I think t)le NCAA should do a better job selecting officials for their _championship tournament. When I say this I am in no way suggesting that Notre Dame lost because of the referees whistle. I am not making ~xcuses. ~do think, howe~e~, in a game where the national championship 
NOTICES 
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND Student Loans, $20-150. Due in thirty days. One percent interest charges per month. M-F, 11:15-12:15, LaFortune basement. 
Bus service to Chicago every Friday. 
Buses leave the circle at 6:05 for tickets and info call Shep, 8330. 
Hitz unlimited 50th anniversay celebra­tion today. Don't miss it. 
Will do typing_ Neat, accurate. Call:287-5162. 
Dissertations, manuscripts etc....typed. IBM Selectric II. Linda's Letters. 287-4971. 
NEED QUALITY TYPING?? Executary Inc., Professional Typing Service, IBM Correcting Selectrics. Call 232-oB98 "When you want the best." 
FOR RENT 
Furnished, entirely carpeted 4-bedroom house. $80 per person. Gas and electric not included. 438 Harrisson, one block 
· 
south of Julio's on LWN. Call 288-7894. 
5 and 6 bedroom furnished houses for rent this summer and fall. Walking distance to campus. Nice. Call 232-3815 after 5:00. 
One immediate vacancy in two bedroom house in Niles. Share $1 BO per mo. rent. Modern furnished, kitchen, free laundry. Call Joe. 684-0281. 

LOST AND FOUND 
FOUND: One gold erring for non-pierced ear between Arch. Building and Sorin before break. Call1161. 
Set of two large keys found before break. Call Observer office to identify_ 
LOST: One Texas Instruments calculator in or near LaFortune on the Wednesday before spring break. Reward offered... call 233-7213. 
LOST: Cross pen-pencil set before break. Sentimental value. Reward. Please call John Murphy 289-8643. 
WANTED 

Weekend householder for loacvl half-way house. Small salary plus room and board. 
Overnight stay is required. Excellent experience for persons interested in working in mental health field. For further information plaease contact 234­1049. 
Will trade two center section bleacher
seats to Jackson Brown and $$$ for two padded seats. Ken, 8266. 
Need tutors In basic English and Basic Math. Available between the hours of
8 30 d 4 30 M d th F ld
: an : on ay ru r ay.
Hourly pay. Call for Interview appoint­rnent. Project Effect, IUSB, 237-4491. 
$100 plus a week mailing circularslll Materials supplied, Immediate Income Guaranteed! Rush stamped adressed 
envelope to : Homeworker, 2909-4DE Pinetree, Hernando, MS, 38632. 
sword regime. "Winning 1·t two years in a row is a lot better than winning it once," enthused ~ullivan. "But my goal is to make 
1t three straight. 
"I~m ama~ed that I went through the ftnals w1thout a loss. My best bout was against (Clemson's Steve) Renshaw. I was down 3-1 in that one." 
DeCicco puts it right on the line when he says, •'The only copetition decent for Mike might be in ~oscow." Sullivan's ultimate goal IS to make the United State Olympic fencing squad in 1980. 
"Last year we were lucky to win the national title," submitted DeCicco. "But all three of our entries proved to everyone that there was little luck involved this time around. They were outstanding in the tourney. All th c
_ree tenced magnificently, and rntrrored that talent which we had on the whole team." 
DeCicco was expecially prouu of Gerard, who entered the last of three davs of action in third place, ~d surged to gain a tie for first. 
Gerard was most impressive today," said DeCicco at a post-tourney celebration. "Only one touch caused him from winning the gold medal. He fenced with determination,. and I couldn't be too disappotnted with him for not winning the medal." 
DeCicco won't be disappointed too many times in the future if his " d"tsp ay he type of
tencers 1 t same determination that was exhibited here at Parkside. That determina­tion just may be enough for the start of a fencing dynasty. 
If you'd have seen his face when the 'buzzer sounded on Saturday, you'd have no doubt. Still, there were no excused, no complaints ...nothing but praise -praise for the winners and for his own team, 
"Duke played witlrthe -intensity that we lacked " Digger admitted afterwards. ''They have a greatball team. As for us, i am not ashamed of the way we played. I am not ashamed of the way-we lost." ­
Notre Dame, on balance, played good basketball in St. Louis. Good enought, in most cases to win a ball game or two. But things didn't quite turn out that way. _ 
But, like I said, Notre Dame has a lot to be proud of. 
As I stood outside the locker room after the loss to Duke I overheard a reporter comment, "You'll never find a group of guys classier than Notre Dame_ and you'll never find a coach classier than Digger Phelps." 
I thtnk that speaks well for all of us ... for what we try to accomplish at Notre Dame. 
Certain scenes reflect the class Notre Dame exhibited in St. Louis· -~andy Haefner pushing his way past another security guard to wish the Duke players good luck ... 
-Digger Phelps joking with Arkansas guard Ron Brewer at the press conference after Brewer's at-the-buzzer shot sent Digger home with two losses in two .games ... -Duck Williams, who just saw his last chance to win an NCAA title fade away, standit?-g before 200 reporters and tell them "Duke has a great ball club...we have no excuses, you can't take anything away from them. 
Clearly, Notre Dame, despite an illustrious winning tradition, knows how to lose, more so, perhaps, than some teams know how to win I think that savs a lot. · 
CLASSIFIED aa ADS a a 

IS on the hne that the offictatmg should be more consistant than what I say 
last weekend. I think Notre Dame can be proud of their performance in St. Louis. It's not easy to lose. If you were disappointed on Saturday, imagine 
how 14 players felt. They bust their guts for seven months and lose in squeaker. I was there and I didn't envy any one of them. And what about ' the coaches? Some people thought Digger was satisfied to be in the Final 
Sports

Four-that he didn't care about winning the title. If you saw his office lights burning past midnight every night last week 
PERSONALS 
Dear Tany and Staff.... 
Congratulations and best wishes for a very rewarding production year ahead. Love, 
Mom 
You can get more with a smile and a squezze than with just a smile. 
Haircuts, styles, trims, CHEAP!!! SMC Betsy. 4530. 
TYPING DONE REASONABLE RATES Call8086 
Overeaters anonyinous is meeting now on campus. Call 289-6021 for a time and place. 
S I
nugg ey,
Thank you for a wonderful week. 1mis you already. Love, always 
Upper Class Twit PS: X-Mas It shall be. 271 daY$ to E-Day. 
Asqueeze in time save nine. 
HaP,PY birthday to the best "Scolitmas­ter ' around.!! I love you. 
Ted Twardzik, 
Tha~ks for making our TV debot such a smashrng success. We especially liked the pants and the tea. For the rest of the Rutles, we wish you cheese and onions always. Ruttlly, 
Stlg and Nasty 
Renee and Joan, 
Thanks for the gormet dinner. You two are the greatest. Love peace and granole, Frank 
Lisa Campagna ­Ilove you ots, cutie! Forever, Chris Squire 
He-She who squezes Saturday, squeezes
best. 
Killer Bob, I missed you at Easter. Can 1still be your bunny? You can play with my cotton 
talIwhile I nibble at your carrot.  1love  
you.  
A. G.  

Bt"ll Jant'ce and Sue-Thanks for the good time in Atianto Signed, f.' .onk 
Free to good heml: 2puppies r Jll;;;d boxer mix] {hm11111m....). C·,d m-2520 
aftor 3 pm. 
Bring your main sqtt".,ze. Beaux arts ball, 1 Apr11, 78 Ar .1 Fool's Day. 

wa~ ..away wi~h--the·~SBbre· -gqld..a.....&iifiiiiiiiiiOiiiiiiOiiiiijiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii;iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii._______________.:;~....~.,.~...~.,..~-~-~-~-;;;-~~;--~-~-~~;-~.~--~-;-;~,;:-=-=-~...~-;-~;.~~--~-~-~-:-~::~=:.J:.-~ ..J 
Wecb!sclay, March 29, 1978 
12 the obHmH' 

Digger's drea~ ends at Final Four 
by Paul Stevenson Sporta Writer 
ST. LOUIS-Missouri -"It's a CCN~Ch's drelua to get to the 8nal four, and thanks to 14 great kids, that drelua has come true," Notre Dame Head Coach Digger Phelps commented, after his Irish cagers had thrashed DePaul In the Midwest Regional Championship Game. 
That victory over the Blue their first trip to the prestigious Demons sent Notre Dame to the Final Four. final four for the first time in the Tripucka, Branning, Corzine, history of the University. Rick Wilson and Gary Garland 
Yes, the Irish established several were named to the 1978 Midwest records during their 1977-78 cam-Regional All-Tournament Team paign and reaching St. Louis was after the contest. In addition, just another landmark. After Notre Tripucka was named Most Valu­Dame dominated Houston in the able Player for his efforts in the opening round of the tournament, first three games. the Irish looked to be one of the But, from that point on, the hottest teams in the NCAA. But, Irish's fortunes were to fall apart. they still had to get by the infamous In the semi-final contest in the second game, something Phelps Checkerdome, a national television had never before accomplished as a audience watched the Duke Blue head coach. Devils down the Irish on Holy 
Thus, on St. Patrick's Day in Satuday, 90-86. Lawrence, Kansas, the Irish broke The contest see-sawed back and their streak of four straight second forth for the first 15 minutes, but in round losses, defeating the Uni-the final five minutes before inter­versity of Utah, 69-56. The Irish mission, the Blue Devils out-scored were not as flashy as they were in the Irish 16-4. The previous games the opening round, but they per-in the tournament, the Irish used formed consistently en route to their depth to their advantage and victory. padded their lead towards the end 
The Irish shot SO percent from of both periods, but this time, the the field in the contest, while the situation was reversed. Mike Utes found the range on 43 percent Gminski's rebound goal at the of their shots. Kelly Tripucka and buzzer gave Duke a commanding Dave Batton lead Notre Dame with 43-29 advantage at halftime. 20 and 15 points, respectively. Jeff The Irish had their work cut out Judkins paced the Utes with 16 for them, but many Notre Dame markers while Danny Vranes added enthusiasts were hopeful that a­
14. nother Marquette comeback was in 
"At the start of the season we the making. Although there was a had three goals," Phelps recalled. late surge, that event never oc­"First, we wanted to get everybody curred. 
through the first semester aca-Notre Dame kept trying to chip demically. ·Second, we wanted to away at the lead, but Duke would receive a bid to the NCAA tour-keep coming back. Finally with nament and third, we wanted to go 3:55 remaining in the game and farther in the tournament than we Duke leading 80-66, the-Irish made ever had before. We've achieved a last ditch attempt. all three of those goals now and I The Irish maintained their ag­told the players, whatever else we gressiveness and some fancy do from here on is just gravy." shooting by Duck Williams and 
Yes, Notre Dame had escaped Tracy Jackson brought the Irish the second round jinx, but they within two, 88-86, with 20 seconds were not finished. There was more left in the game. Notre Dame then "Gravy" to come. The Irish had a called for a time. Play resumed rematch with DePaul, the team that and on the inbounds pass, Stan dealt Notre Dame their only home Wilcox and Williams combined for loss of the season, a 69-68 thriller a steal and Williams took a wide in overtime. open 22 foot shot from the left wing 
But, this time around, the Irish that would not fall with 18 seconds would not be outdone. Notre Dame remaining. Duke hauled down the only shot 46 percent from the field, rebound and with nine seconds left but the Irish dominated the boards Branning fouled John Harrell, who and completely shut down De-sand both ends of a one and one to Paul's big man, Dave Corzine. The give Duke their final 90-86 margin contest was close for the entire first of victory. half, but a Tripucka tip-in at the In the contest, Notre Dame shot buzzer gave Notre Dame a 37-33 47 percent from the field, com­lead at intermission. The Demons pared to 55 percent for the Blue threatened throught the second Devils. The Irish out-rebounded half, but consistent play and ex-Duke 37-34 and hit seven more cellent free throw shooting earned field goals, but the difference in the Notre Dame a 84-64 triumph and game was at the gift line. The Blue 
Frank LaGrotta
·========================================================================================================== 
Some Things I Think 
=====================================:==================================================================================================:St. Louis 
I sat in front of my typewriter for hours last night and tried to come up with a clever way to say a few things I think should be said. I guess I wasn't feeling very clever. So, without being cute, and at the risk of sounding like I'm eating sour grapes, (which I can assure you I'm not) here are some things I think: 
1 think the NCAA Tournament is a bit overrated. 
When I was a little younger and a lot more impressionable, I would watch the championship game on television every year. (I believe they called it "The Johnny Wooden Show" then.) Boy, those games sure looked exciting with the bands, banners, cheerleaders and aren.as full of screaming fans. I guess that's one reason I looke~forward to go~ng to ~t. Louis last weekend. After all, I had a great t1me at the reg10nals m Lawrence Kansas the weekend before and I thought if you can have a great tim~ in Lawrence, Kansas... well, what would St. Louis be like? Maybe I expected too much;l something like the Super Bowl or a World Championship Fight ...something unique. 
Sorry, folks, but the NCAA let me down. 
1 think whoever assigns teams to hotels should be forced to spend a night at the Rodeway Inn Downtown where the Notre Dame team. stayed. The NCAA assigns the winning teams from. each of the four ~egtons to a different hotel and while Mideast-Champ1on Kentucky enjoyed plush sun·. undings (complete with indoor fountains) at Stouffers, the Notre Damt: oarty suffered with cold showers, broken heaters and hard 
mattres.. !S. 
1think !> 1me of the people associated with the tournament should take a quickie course in common courtesy. Never before have I encountered so many people who seem to go out of their way to give others a hard time. 
Case in point: Notre Dame Willi scheduled to practice at 1 p.m. Sundav afternoon for (contbaaed on p. 11) 


Devils, the highest percentage free throw shooting team in the country, hit 32 of 37 free throws in the contest. The Irish had only 17 shots from the charity stripe and connected on 14. 
''Obviously, we are disappointed in losing, but we are not dis­appointed in the way we lost," Phelps stressed. "Duke showed why they belonged in the Final Four. They played with a lot of intensity and enthusiasm in the first half. This is a great moment for them, one the Duke players can be proud of." 
"We did a lot of good things, we just did them too late. I thought we played well." 
Duke Head Coach Bill Foster was certainly not dissatified in the final score, but the ultimate goal took a long time to achieve. 
"I'd like to give Notre Dame credit for stopping the clock at the end," Foster commented. They stopped the clock so much I was about ready to send for a mechanic. 
It wouldn't move for us and they would score all the time. We were playing a litHe bit nervous, but the clock ran out just about the right time for us." 
After that defeat, all of Notre Dame's preparatjpn had come to an end. The National Championship could only be looked at for next year. Yet, there was still one more game to play, the consolation matchup against Arkansas. 
The first half was mostly Notre Dame, with the Irish enjoying as much as a ten point bulge. However, a surge by the Razor­backs before intermission, in which the Hogs out-scored Notre Dame 18-4, put Arkansas up at Halftime, 40-36. 
Notre Dame was unable to gain the lead again but tied the contest at 69 with 14 seconds left in the game when Jackson hit a 16 foot shot from the right side. 
The Irish then called time out to set up some defensive strategy, but in the final ten seconds, Ron Brewer took the ball down court for the Hogs. With time running out, Brewer hit a 30 foot shot to give Arkansas the game. 
"They won it with one of the toughest shots in basketball," Phelps remarked. "They had ten seconds and he was guarded b_y Hanzlik. He hit a million dollar shot. It's like Jack Nicklaus needing an eagle to win, and pulling out a seven iron hooking it around the trees and putting it in the cup." 
Although the game had some excitement, it did not have a purpose. nuLu L~am1> wo::re eli­minated from the tournament, so why have them participate in another game, a contest most would like not to play. 
"Win or lose, I just don't like a 'consolation game," Phelps em­phasized. "It isn't fair to the kids or the teams. It you're Notre Dame .You're opponent isn'tjust playing ·consolation game, their juiced u because they're playing Notre Dame." 
Yes, for a season that was s successful, it's sad to see it en with two defeats. But one must b proud of the fact that of the 21 Division I teams competing for those final positions, Notre Dame was one of the Final Four. 

"It's been the greatest year in the history of Notre Dame basket­ball," Phelps stated. "Years from now when people are in a bar talking about who went to the final four, these kids will have a lot of stories to tell. Our kids have made a great contribution to Notre Dame Basketball." 
While it's tough to be knocked out in the end, the experience of the whole affair is invaluable. In addition, this year's basketball team achieved something that Notre Dame cage teams have been striving for for 80 years. 
Kentucky celebrates NCAA title with 13,000 Wildcat supporters 
I.EXINGTON, Ky. [AP] -An estimated 13,000 fans packed into Memorial Coliseum here and hun­dreds more clamored outside as Kentucky's NCAA basketball champions were feted with cheers, chants and official proclamations Tuesday night. 
''This is the prettiest sight I've ever seen," said athletic director Cliff Hagan, who, as a member of Kentucky's 1951 national cham­pions, enjoyed a similar reception in the same arena. 
"This basketball team will re­member this for the rest of their lives," Hagan said. "I would like to welcome you to the basketball capital of the world and home of the 1978 NCAA champions." 
A huge paper banner reading "NCAA Champions 1978" hung from the ceiling. It was modeled after four permanent blue felt banners hanging in the coliseum and in Rupp Arena, where the Wildcats now play their home games, to ·mark Kentucky's prt'vious championships. 
"We didn't have much ~~me to get that ready," Hagan said, pointing to the banner, "but it's gonna look awfully good hanging in Rupp Arena." 
Gov. Julian M. Carroll led a 
parade of dignitaries reading reso­
lutions and proclamations. 
"Today, we declared this day as Thanksgiving Day," Carroll said. "Where else would a team arrive at an airport at four in the morning and be greeted by 10,000 fans." 
He then proclaimed March 28 to April 4 as Wildcat Week in Kentucky. 
Coach Joe Hall drew a standing ovation as he remarked on the tournament in St. Louis, where the Wildcats defeated Duke, 94-88, the night before. 
"There are two things that make me very happy," Hall said. "We won that national championship on Indiana's floor. And then I learned that it's Wildcat Day in Louisville." 
He was referring to the Checker­dome floor, which was shipped from Assembly Hall at Indiana University, one of Kentucky's bit­tere.st ~ivals in ~nt years, and the war of words between propo­nents and opponents of a Ken­tucky-Louisville basketball series. 
"It's been tremendous working with these young guys," Hall said, before introducing each of the 14 players. "You know what they are on the floor, but I know they're even better off the floor." 
"Ifyou've grown up in Kentucky and know what Kentucky basket­ball is, you can understand the pressures," he said. 
He then took a parting shot at sportswriters who covered the St. Louis tournament. 
"The sports media in St. Louis questioned us on whether we have fun," Hall said. "Notre Dame which lost both its final games had fun in St. Louis. I was a Kentucky fan before I was a coach and I wouldn't have tolerated a team representing my state that wanted to have fun instead of winning. 
"I was also asked if the pres­sures might cause me to resign if we won the championship. And I 
said I might blow my  mind  and  
resign  and  become  a  sports  
writer."  





