
NLRB charges Notre Dame .with unfair labor practices 
Mike Jlklenour Staff Keportel' 

The National Labor Relations Board (NLRB) has <:barged Notre Dame with unfair labor practices in connection with workers' attempts to unionize. A hearing has been set for Feb. 15. 
The charges, madt: last Friday by the NLRB, stem from an Unfair Labor Practice (ULP) charge filed last Oct. 31 by the Teamsters Local 364. 
The ULP alleges that the Uni­versity was attempting to stop the unionization efforts of its emplo­yees by subcontracting out its food services operations to SAGA, an­nouncing salary and employee (insurance) benefits in the midst of union activity, and threatening to subcontract its grou.ndkeeping op­erations to an outside firm. 
Thomas J. Mason, vice-presi­dent for Business Affairs, issued a letter yesterday t:xplaining the University's position in the matter. While the letter is dated Jan. 23, it responds only to the ULP charges and does not directly address itself to the charges made by the NLRB. 
The letter's basic assertion is 

that the University has at no time 
engaged in the acti,ities alleged by 
the Teamsters and the University is 
willing to substantiate this in public 
at an NLRB hearing. 
~ike Lawrence, assistant busi­

ness representative of the teamster 
Local 364, remarked, "I am de­
lighted by the NLRB's action I'm 
looking forward to the 15th." 
Joseph Duffey, NLRB field ex­

aminer investigating the charge, 
was quoted yesterday by the South 
Bend Tribune as having called on 
the University on Jan. 4 to "im­
mediately cancel its food services 
contract with SAGA and restore the 
food operations to the pre-existing 
conditions administered by the 
University." 
The article also said that Duffey 

stated that Notn: Dame "must 
agree to announce pay increases 
and other benefits for the purpose 
of lessening their interest in union­
ization and must not subcontract or threaten to subcontract any work," or otherwise discouragf: workers' attempts to unionize. 
Notre Dame refused to agree with duffey's suggestions, acco~d­ing to the Tribune. The next action of the NLRB was to issue last Friday the formal charge notifica­
tion of the public hearing. The hearing is scheduled for 10 a.m., Feb. 15, in the City-County Building in South Bend. In a Tetter dated yesterday and addressed to the faculty, staff and students of Notre Dame, Mason charged the Teamsters with block­ing the proceedings of the 21 groundskeepers attempt to act as a collective bargaining unit. 
Mason, in his statement, said that the University is "unprepared to receive the NLRB bargaining unit determination, but the Team­sters have decided to block the proceecdings." 
Mason stated that the Unfair Labor practice charge against the University is preventing the NLRB from making its determination. "The ULP," Mason asserted, "is without merit and the University intends to reject the charges through appropriate channels." 
At the NLRB hearing, the Uni­versity will present evidence and prove that the charges are false, Mason states. 
"The Teamsters merely need to ask the NLRB to proceed with the ULP processing, but the Teamsters will not allow this to happen," Mason continued in his statement. 
Lawrence admitted, ''The local union has not asked the NLRB to proceed with the Unit Determina­tion on the advice of our attor­neys," but did not comment on whether this had any connection with the consideration of the ULP. 
Mason, in closing, stressed that "the University is not afraid of dealing with the NLRB decision on a bargaining unit; it is the Team­sters who are causing the present long delay. 

1979 Carter budget calls for tax cuts 
Washington (AP)-President Carter sent Congress a 1979 budget yesterday calling for $25 billion in tax cuts, higher spending on de­fense, energy and education, but no big outlays for wholly new programs. 
Even so, the magnitude of the proposed spending, $500.2 billion, brought critical comment from some key members of Congress. 
"Iwould like to see us under $500 billion,'' House Speaku Thomas P. O'Neill told reporters. 
Rep. George H. Mahon (Dallas, Tex.), chairman of the House Appropriations Committee, re­called that a $6 billion budget was considered unbelievably high in 1935, the year he intered Congress. Mahon applauded Carter's an­nounced intention of working with the private sector of the economy to reduce unemployment.. But he said 
accompanying proposals for spen­
ding and large tax cuts to stimulate 
the economy involve considerable 
risks and "the greatest risk ap­
pears to be inflation.'' 
The budget estimates $439.6 billion in receipts against the outlays. This would leave the government operating in the red by 
60.6 billion, only a little less than the estimated $61.9 billion deficit for the present year. 
Chairman Robert N. Giaimo (D­Conn.) of the House Budget Com­mittee, said the contemplated def­icit is "much too high in times of solid economic growth." 
Praising Carter for calling for restraints on spooding, Giaimo added, "It is now up to the Congress to commit i~_to similsu­
restraints, otherwise the deficit will continue at levels that will be impossible to defend before the 
Mardi Gras booth con­struction has begun, turning Stepan Center 
into a  builder's work­ 
shop.  The theme  of  
Mardi  Gras  1978  is  

"Expo N.D." Con­struction will continue until Feb. 3. The dealers will then man the booths until Feb. 
12. [Photo by Ron Szot.] 

American public." 
Carter reiterated his commitment to a balanced budget but acknow­ledged that the target date of 1981, which he set during his presidential campaign, might be missed if the economy needed more tax cut tonic during the intervening years. 
Overalll, his budget set spending $38 billion higher than the present year's estimated total, and receipts $39.2 billion higher. 
Chairman Al Ullman (D-Ore.) of the tax writing House Ways and Means Committee, who had al­ready called the administration tax reduction proposals excessive, questioned also the extent to which proposed tax tightening, projected to recoup some of the lost revenues would be approved. 
He said Carter "included $9 billion of pickups from reform, more than two thirds ofwhich is not going to happen." 
Mahon said he opposes "so called reforms which would hit most heavily on middle class America," including elimination of deductions for sales and gasoline taxes. 
O'Neill, however, said he thinks such reforms could pass in the House, since they involve rPlatively small sums for each taxpayer, though large amounts for the Treasury in the aggregate. 
He said Democrats always stood for employment, wages and a strong economy "and we are not going to sactifice those for in­creases in defense or any other." 
Alumni Board of Directors meets, .confirms resolution 
by Peggy McGull'e Senior Staff Keportel' 

The Notre Dame Alumni Board of Directors had "a very fruitful and productive'' meeting last weekend, according to John N. Cackley, executive director of the 19 member board. President Joseph B. McGlynn, Jr., an attor­ney from St. Louis, Mo., conducted all of the business sessions which ran from Thursday until Saturday, at various locations on campus. 
The Board, which meets three times each year, confirmed an earlier resolution to sponsor a picnic before this spring's Blue­Gold game, Cackley stated. The picnic will be for members of the senior class, Alumni Cub presi­~ents, and secretaries representing each class of alumni. 
The Board also approved a suggestion to invite these same class secretaries to campus the first week of May for a national meet­ing, the executive director con­tinued. 
Various speakers addressed the group during the four-day period. Thomas J. Suddes, coordinator of development staff in the depart­ment of Public Relations and Development, updated the Board members on the latest statistics and information on the Campaign for Notre Dame, the University's current fund drive. 
Fr. Joseph L. Walter, chairman of the Pre-Professional Studies, 
' explained his program to Board members on Friday. The featured speaker at a dinner Saturday night was Dr. Thomas P. Carney, a member of the University Board of Trustees. The University Chorale performed for the Boafd before Carney's speech. 
Junior Parents' Weekend plans near completion 
Stepan Center on Saturday night.
by AI Leverone The weekend will come to a close on Sunday morning with a special

Plans for Notre Dame's annual . breakfast for juniors and parents at Junior Parents' Weekend, Feb. the North Dining Hall. 24-26, are nearing completion. Contrary to procedures used in According to John Simari, chair-past years, students will make man of the organizational commit-reservations for seating at the tee, parents of ..ll juniors and Presidential Dinner. The tentative 
fourth year architecture students 
have been contacted and told about dates for making reservations are plans for the weekend. Feb. 7-8, in·the LaFortune lobby. Events scheduled include a cock-A lottery for rooms at the Morris 
Inn was held in December. Most tail party Friday night, collegiate parents who failed to receive rooms 
workshops and reception on Satur-were automatically given their day, and a Mass and special liturgy second choice of hotels, Simari at Sacred Heart church, followed by a Presidential Dinner at the {Continued on page.2) 
« 


----~------------­

-2~___.,th.....,e~o...ba.881'Y:x.L.Jl.31erEII--_______ Tuesday, January 24, 1978 _ 
~News Briefs-------... 
t==========~===============World 
Mideast talks at standstill 
JERUSALEM-Israel yesterday countered Egypt's charge that Israelis sabotaged Jerusalem peace talks with a claim that Cairo reneged on a Sinai demilitarization pledge. Prime Minister Menahem Begin said stalled negotiations can resume when Cairo softens what he called its strident anti-Semitic tone. A U.s: envoy meanwhile, held "exploratory" talks with Israeli leaders aimed at getting talks back under way. 

==========================National 
National debt mounts 
WASBINGTON-Each of the 219 million Americans would have to come up with $4,007 to pay off the national debt. Just to finance the "interest on the debt would cost about $224 a person in fiscal1979, according to President Carter's budget. 
Stassen to run again 
MINNEAPOUS-Harold E. Stassen, former three-term governor and four-time seeker of the Republican Party's presidential nomination has announced that he'll seek the Independent Republican endorsement for the U.S. Senate from Minnesota. Stassen wilt vie for the Senate seat now occupied by Sen. Wendell Anderson (D-Minn.). 
4ctors top women's list 
SOUTH HADLEY,Mass.-The fi'rst four winners in a local "Most Watchable Man" contest--in which only women could vote--were no surprise. They were actors Burt Reynolds, Clint Eastwood, actor-singer Kris Kristofferson and actor Robert Redford. 
Tying singer-actor John denver for fifth place, however, were consumer advocate Ralph Nader and the Rev. Ralph A. DiOrio, a Roman Catholic clergyman known as "the healing priest of Worcestor." 

Weather 

A winter storm watch was issued for today. Snow beginning around noon today possibly mixed with freezing rain and sleet during the afternoon. Highs aroung 30. There is a good chance for light snow tonight with lows around 20. Partly cloudy tomorrow with a chance for snow flurries and highs in the upper-20s. There is a 60-percent chance of precipitation today with a SO-percent chance tonight. 
~On Campus Today_~ 
4:30p.m. 
6:30p.m. 7 p.m. 7 p.m. 

I 7 p.m. 
~ 
'
7 p.m. 7:30p.m. 8 p.m. 

seminar, "blood meal metabolism &  utilization by  
aedes  aegypti," "by  dr.  kenneth·  r.  france,  n.d.,  
sponsored by bio. dept., 278 galvin  

meeting, cila general meeting, refreshments after 
library aud. ' 
women's basketball, n.d. vs. Ind. univ.-purdue univ. of ft. wayne, home. 
lecture, "thrust belt discoveries & hydrocarbon potentia of cordilleran hinge-belt;" by gerald g. Ioucks, american assoc. of petroleum geologists, sponsored by dept. of earth sciences, rm. 101, earth science bldg. 
talk, fr. james burtchaell, sponsored by fisher hall academic commission, fisher hall basement.. 
filmc.->peech and drama film series #311, sponsored by speech and drama dept. little theatre ­
eucharist, charismatic eucharist, log chapel,· open 
play, william windom in "thurber" one act play, sponsored by student union, washington hall, one 
dollar 
*The Observer 
Night Editor: Rosemary Mills 
Asst.  Night  Editor:  Margie  
Brassit  
Layout  Staff:  Ed  Neuert  

Editorial Layout; Maureen Flynn Sports Layout: Greg Solman Typists: gwen Coleman, Sue Scribner, Tricia Mee.han, Lisa DiValerio • Night Controller: Mike Bodle Day Editor: Kate Flynn Copy reader: Phil Cackley, Diane Wilson Ad Layout: Beth Cutter, John ?'Connell Photographer: Ron Szot 
The Observer Is published Mon­dey through Frtdey except during eum end v.atlon periods. The Observer Is published by the students of Notre Deme end Selnt Mery's College. Subscriptions mey be purdlesed tor UO per yeer CS 1 o per semester) from The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Deme, lndlene 4US,. Second dell postege peld, Not,. Deme, lndlene, 4US6. . The Obaervt~r 11 e member of the AIIOCieted fllrell. All ,.pro­duction rights e,. ,.,erved. 





New services by Student Union will include turntable clinic 
The Student Union is presently 
planning to initiate two new ser­
vices beginnin~ in February. 
A turntable chnic will be held Feb. 
1 in conjunction with the Sound 
Room stereoshop. Interested stu­
dents should take their turntables 
to the basement of LaFortune 
between 12 and 8 p.m. Technicians 
from the Sound Room will be 
present to completely test tum­
tables. 
There will be a stylus inspection 
under a Wilde-Herbrugg micro­. scope as well as checks on wow and flutter, speed calibration, tracking, frequency, response, and signal to 
noise ratio. Each person will 
receive a graP.h of the results of this 
test which wdl last 15-20 minutes. 
There will be no charge for this 
service. 
Also in February, an ffiM Copy Machine will be placed in the LaFortune Student Center. Copies will cost five cents. The cost of the machine is bein~ underwritten by the Union Servtces Commission, which will also provide mainte­nance. 
Piano concert to feature 

Daniel Kane 

The Notre Dame Concert Series 
will present Daniel Kane, piano, in 
a recital8:15 p.m. tomorrow in the 
Library Auditorium. The program 
is open to the public without 
charge. 
Kane, a member of the Midwest Province of the Brothers of the Holy Cross, holds a B.A. from Notre Dame and a Master of Music from DePaul University. He is a former student of the late Daniel Pedtke of the ND music depart­ment and Victor Babin, among others. 
Formerly on the faculty of St. Joseph High School in South Bend, Kane is currently music depart­ment chairman at Gilmour Academy, Gates Mills, OH, and music instructor at Ursuline College, Pepper Pike, OH. 
Tomorrow evening's program in­cludes three Scarlatti sonatas, Mozart's "Duport Variations" k. 573, two nocturnes by Gabriel Faure, the Chopin "Ballade in F Minor," op. 52, the Shostakovich "Preludes," op.24, and Gershwin' "Rhapsody in Blue." 
Junior Parents' Weekend plans 


·set 

(Continued from page 1) 
said. · 
Any junior wishing to attend any of 
the Weekend events, but whose 
parents will not be attending, can 
pick up ticket applications in the 
Student Affairs office in LaFortune. 
Students with ql\estions should call John Simari at 8595. 

Tutors for grade schools sought by volunteer service 
Students who want to tutor this semester with the Neighborhood Study Help Program (NSJ{P) can sign up this week at the dining-halls. 
The NSHP is the campus volun­teer service through which ND­SMC students tutor South Bend grade school children. Tutoring center captains will be at the South Dining Hall with sign-up sheets tomorrow from 5-6:30 p.m., at the 
North Dining Hall on w~dnesday from 5-6:30 p.m., and at St. Mary's 
Dining  Hall  on  Thursday  from  
4:30-6 p.m. 
Tutors  usually spend  one  hour  

each week with a grade school student to work on reading and math problems. Transportation for tutors is provided through Volun­teer Services. Anyone with ques­tions can call Maggie Brittan (4-1-4260) or Rick VanBeveren 
,-------------------~(2~8~3-~63~7·2~--------------, 
KEN~·s DEN 
--HAIR STYLING -­MEN & WOMEN ACROSS FROM 100 CENTER (LINCOLNWAY WEST IN MISHAWAKA) PHONE 255-6500 appointments preferred 
The machine is being installed on "Student response and input," he 
a month trial basis, stated Greg said, "will help maintam these 
Kuserk, who is coordinating· the programs and bring about more 
project. projects" 
The Services Commission is also Gryp expressed disappointment at 
attempting to plan a flea market for not receiving more calls with new 
the end of the year to give students ideas. "That's all it takes to get 
a chance to exchange furniture and something going," he concluded. 
other goods. Anyone who has 
suggestions or is interested in General CILA 
helping with the project should 
contact the Union Services Commi­meeting tonight ssion. 
Student Union Director Tom Gryp CILA will hold a general meeting 
commented, "Mike Schlageter and tonight at 6:30 p.m. in the LaFor­
I have worked hard to expand the tune Alcove. Members will discuss 
service program this year." His the summer project and the CILA 
examples were the plant sale and ·seminar/workshop. Refreshments 
the record sale held last semester. will follow the meeting. 


ND Chemistry Professor receives rf!search grant 
Hemophilia is a familiar blood disorder, but it's only one of several bleeding diseases--one for each.. of the enzymes needed to form and dissolve blood clots in the human..body. 
Dr. Francis J. Castellino, profes­sor of chemistry, recently received a grant of $73,535 from the National Institutes of Health to study the mechanisms· of blood clot formation. He is doing origina1 research on the four coagulation enzymes--prothrombin and factors VII, IX, and X--which require Vitamin K in their functiopal formation. 
"By understanding the· basic mechanisms, the basic chemistry, of these factors, we can suggest approaches for clinicians trying to identifY specific blood disorders-­bleeding problems after surgery, for example," Castellino says. "And therapy depends on accurate identification." 
.... A biochemist who joined the University faculty in 1970, he also has studied the mechanisms of blood clot dissolution. His research group has established the existence i' and significance of two major forms ' of plasminogen, a precursor of the blood clot-dissolving enzyme, plasmin, a:s well as the chemical mechanism of plasmin formation from plasminogen.. 
Blood clots, called fibrin, are produced continually in the blood­stream for two reasons, Cast(Jllino explains. Fib!'in is D((eded as a template for building new tissue, and it also repllirs ruptured blood vessels and damaged tissiie. 
Bleeding problems occur when the body produces either too many clots or not enough, or when clots dissolve eithe·r too fast or not fast enough. The problem for the clinician is identifying the deficient clotting factor. 
SKI CLUB MEETING 


Tuesday, January 24 8:00PM "' 
Lafortune 1 -C 
for all interested in going on ski trips this winter (Feb. 3, 11, and others) 
·.' 

,:.•1~: John Marshall 
. /A·~-· 
u...· * -·------>· 
• I . . t . I 
I 6 I I I • I I 

Over the yea~s, the one thing I've 
come to expect from students is 
skepticism. Like right now, you're 
probably asking yourself why this 
column i~ appearing in your news­
paper. And since I hope you'll 
ue reading "John Marshall 

on Diamonds" in the forthcoming 
weeks, l1ere'·s my reasoning: 
Motivating factor one: I enjoy abou. diamonds with any­who is interested. As a uate Gemologist, I've spent ' of my adult life learning about and other fine gem­stones. In fact, I even teach classes · gemology at a little University lca.mJ>US across town. So as long as persist in: (a) getting engaged, 
(b) learning, I will look forward to you about my passion. Motivating factor two: Sadly, students who purchase en­lgagelrnettlt diamonds wind up "re­Iess than full value for their lin've~;tmtent." Every year I come contact with students vho have victimized by "special sales" 
discounts'' on engage­diamonds that are nothing than eyewash. Now, since of you operate on something 
than an unlimited budget, I 



on Diamonds 
• • • • -• • • 

bit of knowledge before you start shopping. Logic is a poor basis for an engagement, but a solid basis for selecting an engagement ring. \ Motivating factor three: I'm guessing that the more you know about diamonds, the more tempted you'll be to visit my Diamond Import Company. Whether you ultimately decide to buy from me or not, I will promise you that you'll know more about diamonds when you leave than you did when you came in. You'll know how they're classified in terms of quality and color, how they're priced, and why ~o seemingly similar !;>tones may have very different values. You and your chosen one will have full useage of my Gemological labora­tory and research library, and can make your selection in an atmos­phere of absolute privacy. 
So much for my motivations. If you're still skeptical, then perhaps you'll be curious enough to speak with me first hand. I'm at Diamond Import Company, in the lobby of the St. Joseph Bank Building in downtown South Bend, or by phone at 287-1421. · 
Next week, I'll look at diamond classifications systems, or "what you should tell the jeweler who offers you a 'real deal' or a 'perfect blue-white' diamond." 
This is an advertisement. 

------------------------------------------------------~--------------------------------------------------------------------------­
---------~----~~------------.------~-----------------------­

Frozen St. Mary's lake provides a natural hockey rink fm· Notre Dame students. But, where have all the duckies gone? [Photo by Ron Szot.] 
Tuesday, january 24, 1978 the ObS8nt8[ 
3 

Women's series continues with 'Women and Health' 
by Pat Payne 

Marta Brace, nurse and mid-wife, will discuss the topic "Women and Health,"Wednesday at 7:30 p.m., -in Stapelton Lounge in LeMans Hall. The lecture is the second in the "Women's Awareness" series sponsored by St. Mary's student government and the Office of Student Activities. 
The purpose of the series, accor­
ding to Kathy O'Connell, vice 1 president for Student Affairs, is \ "to get speakers from the ND-SMC · area to probe and arouse thoughts 
and feelings covering a wide range of images of women.'' 
She added, "These are not just lectures, but more like informal presentations that include ample time for discussion.'' 
The series will take place once a month through March and will culminate in April with "Women's Week," hosted by the senior class. Planned activities for "Women's 




·P_anel sayS diet prevents disease 
W ASHlNGTON (AP)-A Se~ate panel that incited an argument with the American Medical Association (AMA) and major food ihdustry groups is sticking to its advice that consumers can lessen their chances of getting killer diseases 'by chang­ing their-diets. 
The Committ~e on Nutrition yesterdayreleased the second edi­tion of its staff study, "Dietary Goals for the Unitf!d States," after making only minor changes from the earlier report issued a year ago. 
There had been speculation among critics of the 1977 report that the committ;;:e rwould with­draw some of its dietary recom­mendations but the major elements of th'at report remain in,tact. 
The new version again recom­mends that Americans decrease comsumption of processed sugars, eggs and salt. It suggests substitu­ting skim milk for whole milk and increasing consumption of fruits, vegetables and whole grains. 
The most important change came in a recommendation to decrease consumption of meat, a ,proposal that brought heavy criticism from cattle producers. The new edition changed this to "decrease consum­ption of animlll fat.'' This would allow for consumption of lean meats, but not su<:h foods as the thick, juicy steak. 
The report said that cancer, heart disease, diabetes and hyper­tension are associated with the rich American diet. 
I 

Committee Chairman George McGovern, a Democrat from the beef-producing state of South Da­kota, endorsed the second edition despite some misgivings from some other committee members. 
McGovern, the 1972 Democratic presidential candidate, said In a forward to the new edition that the recommendations are ''based on current scientific evidence and provide guidance for making per­sonal decisions about one's diet." He said the 124 page report offers ''nutrition knowledge with which Americans can begin to take repon­sibjlity for maintaining their health· and reducing their risk of illness." 
In a9dition to cattl(! producers, the first report was criticized by egg producers , sugar interests and the canning and dairy indus-· tries. 
However, the broadest attack came from the AMA, which said there is no proof that diet is related to disease. It also said that changing American eating habits might lead to economic dislocation. 
The AMA said, ''Insufficient evidence exists at this time to support the need for or the benefit from major changes in 1the national diet as proposed." 
The medical association said the relationship between diet and deaths from heart dise21se is "sug­gestive, fragmentary and even conflicting." The links between diet and cancer of the colon and breast cancer are "very tenuous," it s~tid. And it said thert: is no proof ''salt consumption is a major factor in causing hypertension.'' 
However, many nutri1tionists and health professionals endorsed the dietary goals. 
Community Nutrition Institute, a nonprofit organization interested in good and nutrition programs, said what bothered the AMA was that the recommended dietary goals "infringed on the do<:tor-patient relationship." Nutritionists con-

J()lll flit? ()f)§f?ll't?r let"()()( ~-tctff 
* No experience necessa1ry 
tended that the AMA prefers H. Percy, (R-Ill.), Richard Schweik­curing diseases to preventing er,(R-Pa.), and Edward Zorinsky, them. (D.-Neb.), said in a statements in 
Three Nutrition Committee mem­the report. bers who had no complaint about Sen. Bob Dole, a Republican the first report expressed serious whose home state of Kansas pro­reservations about the new edition. duces beef, expressed satisfaction "The record clearly relfects. ex­at the rewording of the meat treme diversity of scientific opiniqn section. on these questions," Sens. Charles Issuance of the second report is Week" include speakers and work­shops. The theme will center around the many aspects of women, their vocations, roles and occupations. 
O'Connell noted, "Wednesday's lecture is open free of charge to all members of the ND-SMC community.'' 
Memorial mass to be offered for Calonje 
There will be a special memorial mass for Stephen Calonje in Sacred Heart church at 5:15 p.m. tomor­row. 
This celebration will afford aU the friends of Steve to remember him tn prayer and thanksgiving. Fr. Eugene Gorski, Steve's Howard Hall rector, will be the main celebrant; all members of the Notre Dame communhy are invited. 
one of the last official acts of the Nutrition Committee as a separate, select commjttee. It is being phased into the Agriculture Com­mittee as a subcommittee. persons interested in obtaining a copy of the second edition should send $2.30 to the Government Printing Ofice in Washington and ask for publication number 052-070 03913-2. 
VJIDana lindon. in Thurher 
* 
Openings for Sun., Tu1es., Thurs.

* 
Opportunities for adv~ancement 


For information contact: Martha Fanning 8661, 1715 *The Observer Stevt~ Odland 1478 
so~  shot  
ND Gridders  3 drafts for $1 ..  
and Coaches  



Tuesday' January 24 8pna 

Vlashington Hall one dollar 
National . Cha.mpionship Party Wed. Night 8· 2:30 AM *Schnapps 
drink FREE 
Valid ID's 







""*The Observer 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's 
The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College~ ·It does not necessarily reflect the policies of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters. are the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and letters are encouraged to promote the free expression of varying 
opinions on campus.  
Business Manager Advertising Manager Production Manager  Sue Quigley Steve Bonomo Karen Chiames  BoxQ Notre Dame Ind. 46556  

EDITORIAL BOARD 
Marti Hogan Editor-in-Chief Martha Fanning Managing Editor Bob Brink Asst. Managing Ed Kathy Mills Executive Editor Maureen Flynn Editorial Editor Barb Breitenstein Exec. News Editor Jean Powley St. Mary's Editor Katie Kerwin News Editor Barb Langhenry News Editor Paul Stevenson Sports Editor Pat Cole Special Projects Ed. Tony Pace Features Editor 
Copy Editor Joan Fremeau Photo Editor Leo Hansei1 
Tuesday, January 24, 1978 
• 

At Last, We Cheer 
It was a great day for the Irish Sunday afternoon when Dan Devine strode fearles­sly to center court. There were no boos, no jeers; in fact, the applause truly ''shook down the thunder.'' This was the head coach of football's Fighting Irish, the man who worked the magic of the Green Machine that started Notre Dame rolling to the National Championship. 
The spectacle of this lt$iversity' s head football coach dodging appearances at pep rallies and before alumni groups for fear of boos and cries of ''Dump Devine,'' has ­been an embarassing blot on our preten­sions to both sportsmanship and Christian­iy. Something is wrong when the basketball coach delivers the exhortation to victory on the eve of the Southern Cal game. 
Devine came to Notre Dame in the worst circumstances possible: under heavy attack in Green Bay, he was succeeding a tremendously popular coach, a coach with the animation and charisma that is not part of Devine's make-up. From all indication, Devine also met with something less than complete cooperation from his team. Several players criticized him openly. He was not well-liked. 
In a recent interview with Bob Broeg, sports editor of the St. Louis Post-Dis­patch, Nip lfeisenfels, linebacker at Mizzou under Devine, recalled: "As undergraduates, we scoffed at some things he said and were aggravated by others. lfe didn't really like him that much either, but Dan Devine motivated us and got us to really thinking that playing the g arne of the moment was the most important thing we'd ever do." · 
"So many of the things he stressed about life have proved out since I left the campus and rve found that he has done so much for so many of his former players who really didn't know he cared that much when he held them at arm's length at the time they were playing for him. 
lfeisenfel's Devine is unsensational, but inspiring nonetheless, undemonstra­tive, but still caring. He cared enough for the student body to help arrange a Cotton Bowl charter. And he cares enough about Notre Dame to want to stay, despite the tension of the past three years. , 
It won't really matter that Notre Dame the football team won the 1977 National Championship ifNotre Dame the Christian community fails to give Dan Devine the understanding and acceptance that has been too long withheld. 
!Opinion~!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
NO Debate Has Proud Past 
--.--.--.--.-john borkowski 
Editor's Note: ''The Observer statements" mentioned In the fol­lowing oolnmn were made by Notre Dame Debate Connell President Jim Maniace and should have been attributed to him In the article. The Observer is happy to set the record straight on the Debate ConneD's One record. 
I have just read the article written by Tony Pace of The Observer on Oct. 17, 1977, proclaiming the return to national prominence of the Notre Dame Debate Team for the first time in thirteen years. Th~;:r~; is no doubt that this year's debate team is one of the better squads Notre Dame has had in quite a long while. I wish the team, and Bill Wians as coach, the greatest success, and hope that they do indeed surpass the best debate teams Notre Dame has seen. 
However, Tbe Observer's state­ment that Notre Dame debate has not seen national prominence for thirt~en years, and Tbe Observer's statement that the debate council has won no awards for the past ten years, are simply gross errors of fact which should not stand uncor­rected. Such inaccurate statements do great injustice to a large number of ovtstanding students who have, within the past thirteen years, achieved comparable or greater national prominence than the mem­bers of this year's team, albeit not with as much campus fanfare or publicity. 

· Notre Dame is one of the founders of what is today the largest debate organization in the country: DSR-TKA. Notte Dame has con­tinued to· produce debate teams that have been prolific in terms of both awards and over-all accom­plishment. During the past six years Notre Dame has done exceptionally well in tournaments with ninety or more co~peting teams, including: 
1971 
At Tulane, Notre Dame reached quarterfinals ·and received a fifth place trophy. 
1972 
At Tulane, Notre Dame reached semifinals, and received a third place trophy. 
At Northwestern, Tom Gies and Mike Connor won six and lost two, placing seventeenth. 
At Kentucky, Tom Gies and Mike Connor reached semifinals, receiv­ing a third place trophy. In the same tournament, Jack Keeney and Tom King won seven and lost one, and reached quarterfinals, receiving a fifth place trophy. 
1973 

At Southwest Missouri State, Brian Kelly and Jack Keeney won seven and lost one, reaching quar­terfinals and receiving a fifth place trophy. 
At Kentucky, Jack Keeney and I won five and lost three. 
At Emory, Jack Keeney and I won 
five and lost three. 
Other outstanding performances 
at tournaments having between forty and eighty schools competing have included placing several times , at Loyola, taking first place in 1972 at the Citadel, and taking first place in 1973 at Kent State Univer­
sity. 
Jeff Rajchel and Dave Hayes have yet to be outdone in their perfor­mance in 1973 when, beating national powers including Ken­tucky and Catholic Univ., they placed third in the country in novice nationals. That same year Jack Keeney and I each took outstanding speaker awards as well as the third place trophy at the Citadel, losing only to West Geor­gia, the eventual national cham­pions, after beating Tulane and Alabama. In the 1975-76 school year, Mark Zenger and Jim Man­iace capped a successful season by taking first place at an international debate tournament at the Univ. of Hawaii, defeating Oregon in the final round. 
Notre Dame has annually hosted a national invitational debate tour­nament which, in 1974 and 1975, attracted the largest number of prestigious schools it had gotten since the early 1960's. The debate council has always been active in community activities, frequently judging in state and local high school debate tournaments and accepting invitations to debate before audiences. My first contact with Notre Dame debate was watching an exhibi~ion debate between Notre Dame and the Univ. of Pittsburgh at St. Ignatius High School in Cleveland, Ohio. 
The above items do not come close to summarizing the past thirteen years of trophies won or promi­nence achieved by the Notre Dame Debate Council. The debate team has, over the past eight years, often been competitive with the best of the nation's debate teams, holding its own with schools having extensive departmental undergrad­uate and graduate programs in speech and debate, having quali­fied professors devoting their life­times to coaching debate, and giving full and partial scholarships to recruit the best talent from high school. Notre Dame relies on full­time students for coaching, has a budget far below most similarly competitive programs, ha5 limited research facilities, and has given no scholarships to incoming stu­dents. 
Despite all these odds, many Notre Dame students over the past thirteen years have gained hard­earned national recognition for forensic accomplishment. It would be a shame if all their achieve­ments were just left to a passing phrase in your article--to wipe those achievements out with a sentence or two is a travesty. 
[John Borkowski Is a member of the Oass of 1973, the Law Class of 1976, and Is a fonner Director of Debate at Notre Dame.) 



The special beat of 

Steve Calonje 
Dear Editor: 
We'll miss him in the Nazz and most everywhere else, too. He had such a "feel" and there were none better. Most of us knew him or at least his beat. It won't be the same without him. 
The coming jazz festival surely would have found him the best; it was his tum. Won't we dedicate CJF '78 to Steve Calonje, jazz drummer, victim of hit and run? 
D. Gonrdln 

ND, Texas fans insulted in 

'Mav~ricks' 
Dear Editor: 
Reed King's article "Irish Mavericks in Longhorn Country" is the only bad memory I have of Notre Dame's bowling in Dallas. It is a shame that The Observer staff allowed such a distasteful article to be printed in a newspaper which is representative of the Notre Dame community. Having lived in Dallas for the last eight years, I found Mr. King's description of Dallas as a "cowtown" with "thirty million wetbacks'' to be obviously dis­torted, but his comments on the typical ND and Texas fans are what have caused my bad feelings and this reply. 
One of my older brothers and his 

wife graduated from the University word of Mr. King -for the benefit of Texas last year, and I would be of the good names of the University embarrassed to admit my associa­of Texas and Notre Dame students tion with ND if they (or any other and alumni. person for that matter) got wind of 
Dick Duffey King's article. And after hearing some of the stories which Clem­




Park benches 
son's paper wrote about ND after our visit to South Carolina, I feel · 
for the 
certain that word will likewise make it back to Texas. It is 


'beautiful-er' 
unfortunate that one person's Dear Editor:
dubious quotation ("G.d., g.d., you're g.d. m.f. right ...") was used The benches in the Concourse of to stereotype the mentality of Memorial Library are a wonderful 45,000 U. of Texas students. In the addition (for the life of me I cannot 
see that they have the aspect same way it is again-sad that 1 and subtraction at all). Now, if we my Notre Dame friends were could only prevail upon the powersgeneralized as the "drunker ND that be -those give the decisive fiat minority." My only consolation -to provide us with park benches ­after reading Reed King's words oh, maybe not in the dead of was the thought that he was still in winter, but surely in the quick ofthat state of oblivion which he so spring and summer and ·autumn. 
proudly claimed himself to be in They should not fear what willthroughout most of his stay in happen to the grass. Let theirDallas. 
operative principle be: "Grass is 
So next year if ND happens to beautiful, but persons are 'beauti­make a return trip to Dallas, I hope ful-er'." The Observer spares us the written Joseph W. Evans 
~ 
:::> 
m 
ffi 
z 
0 
0 
c 






Tuesday, january 24, 1978 the observer 
5

Paris kidnapping 


Belgian noblernan abducted 
PARIS [API -Masked gunmen ambushed an automobile carrying Baron Edouard-Jean Empain in central Paris yesterday and abduc­ted the Belgian nobleman, who is one of Europe's richest industrial­ists and heads a giant conglomer­ate with interests in the United States. 
Hours after the late morning abduction, the 40-year-old baron's family still had not received a ransom demand, authorities said. There was no firm clue to whether he was kidnapped for money or for political motives. 
Police were mobilized nation­wide and at France's borders in the hunt for Empain, father of three and scion of a long powerful industrial family. 
Police said Empain's chauffeur was in severe shock after being 
Wilmington 10 membE•rs receive reduced sente~nces 
RALEIGH· N.C. (AP)-Gov. James B. Hunt Jr. yesterday reduced the sentences of nine imprisoned members of the Wil­mington 10, making all but one of them eligible for parole this year, but denied petitions seeking a full pardon for members of the group. 
Hunt's decision was contained in the script of a statewide television broadcast. 
The sentence of the Rev. Ben Chavis, leader of the group, was reduced to permit parole eligibility on Jan. 1, 1980-two years earlier than before the governor's action. 
The sentence of Ann Sheppard Turner, the only woman' and the only white among the defendants, was unchanged. Mrs. Turner already is free on parole. 
Hunt's announcement was carried live from his Capitol office on nearly every television station in North Carolina. 
Chavis and eight other black men were convicted of fire bombing Mike's Grocery, a white-owned store in a black neighborhood of Wilmington, N.C., during racial violence in that port city in Feb. 1971. They also were convicted of conspiracy and other charges and received prison sentences of more than 20 years each. 
Chavis was accused by prose­cution witnesses of instructing others in the firebombing and drew the longest sentence, 25 to 29 years for burning and four to five years for conspiracy. 
Mrs. Turner was convicted on a lesser charge of being an accessory. 
"From all that I have learned in reviewing this case, I have con­cluded that there wa'> a fair trial, the jury made the right decision and the appellate courts reviewed it properly and ruled correctly," hunt said. 
"I have confidence in what our courts and judges have done. Accordingly, I cannot and I will not pardon these defendants." 
Several foreign governments, in­cluding the Soviet Union have called the case an example of human rights violations in the United States. Amnesty Inter­national, winner of last year's Nobel Peace Prize, has cited the 10 as "prisoners of conscience." 
Chavis was a field worker for the United Church of Chri~;t Commis­sion for Racial Justice and was sent to Wilmington to help quell the 

Any personal 
Articles that were left in C lockers 
at the end of spring 
semester 1977 should be claimed in the Lost and Found office, room 121 Administration building. The office is open from 8 a.m.. to 8 p.m., Monday through Friday. 
badly beaten by tht! four or five kidnappers in the well-organized operation. The gunmen used two trucks and a motorbike to close in on the industriatis.t's car just outside his apartment building near the Arc de Trimnphe. 
Empain, whose mother was A­merican music hall star Rozell Rowland, is president and mana­ging director of the French-Belgian Empain-Schneider industrial group of 150 companies. 
The conglomerate, which has an 
annual turnover of S4.5 billion, is 
France's only nuclear power plant 
manufacturer, building U.S. West­
inghouse plants unde1r license, and 
it qas large steel, shipping, 
banking, and machinery production ·interests. It 'fmploys 120,000 workers worldwide, is a major shareholder 
racial strife. Mrs. Turner was a federal antipoverty worker. The others were teenagers at the time, most in high school. 
The United Church of Christ has supported the group throughout and has spent an estimated $200,000 in legal fees. The 10 began serving prison terms in February 1976 after the U.S. Supreme Court refus€~d to hear their appeal. Last year they were granted a post-conviction hearing, during which the state':~ three key witnesses in the 1972 trial recanted their testimony. Key prosecution witness Allen Hall, who admitted on the stand that he set fire to the grocery during that wed of racial violence, later recanted his second statement. 
Superior Court Judge George M. Fountain, saying he could not rule, on their guilt or innocence, found no "substantial denial of constitu­
tional rights of the de1fendents," , hour a week. . and turned down a petition for a For information call Betty Albert new trial. 
at 7336. 


NOw the exciTing Venture sec · 
appeqrs



every Wednesday 
in the ~Chicago Tribune 


We've pioneered something new in newspaper 
pllJblishing: Venture. It's our way of helping you 
tlJim free time into good times. It's a section 
g1aared for livelier leisure activities, with 
information on what's new in participant sports, 
games and hobbies, advice on eqUipment and 
nolpful books, plus guides to the fun places near 
and far. Enjoy Venture every Wednesday. And 
enjoy the many attractions of the Midwest's most ~ 
complete newspaper every day. j 
For home delivery, call234-1785. 
rTurntothen-: •_litca_go \!.Ttbnne 
in the U.S. company Phoenix Steel and is believed to have other large North American holdings. 
Police, recounting what the chauffeur and other eye-witnesses told them, said Empain drove from his apartment building on a quiet, fashionable streetL paralleling the Avenue Foch at about 11 a.m. yesterday. 
A few yards away a small truck had been parked out from the curb. As Empain's driver tried to man­euver around it, a man on a motorbike suddenly fell in front of the car forcing it to stop. 
Another truck then roared up from behind, masked men jumped from the two trucks and the motorbike rider pulled out a revol­ver, police said. The chauffeur was dragged from the car, beaten and thrown into the truck. Three or four kidnappers piled into Empain's car · and sped off with the industrialist, the second truck following. 
The driver was released a few minutes later less than a mile away and notified police, who already had been alerted by an eyewitness. One of the trucks was found nearby and police determined it had been stolen two weeks ago. 
The Empain family fortune was founded before World War I by the present baron's grandfather, Edouard Empain, whose firms built the Paris subway and other mass transit systems throughout the 
, world and had extensive mine and lumber holdings. 
Students control _ weight during lunch hour 
Persons . interested in learning about weight control, nutritional info~ation and group support in workmg toward weight loss can join a weight control group one lunch 

The Knights Men's Hair Styling 
We are pleased to present our exper1s in men's hair styling and hair care. Use our private entrance at the Queen's Castle. 
~ 54533 Terrace Lane 

8:30-6:30 8:30-8:30 272-8471 8:30-5:30 277-1691 
SMC 
ThursdayJanuary 26 6:30pm 
SMC Office Basement of Regina South 
NEW 

REPORTERS 

WELCOME! 
If you absolutely can't attend call Jean at 4001 . 
MANDATORY 
MEETING
FOR ALL 

REPORTERS 



the observer Tuesday, january 24, 1978
6 

Rumour is reality as Franconia College closes 


CONCORD N.H. (AP] -After 1 years of fighting financial prob­lems, bad publicity, and conserva­tives, Franconia College, an avant­garde school born in the tumultous 1960s, closed yesterday with hardly any warning. 
"We heard rumors Saturday and didn't get official notice until Sunday," said Pat Grady, 22, an arts major from Sayville, N.Y. 
"Today I'm trying to deal with it ...I'm hurting," she said. 
She had expected the spring semester to begin on schedule tomorrow. 
But from the time the school set up in a former White Mountains resort hotel in 1963, it had been fighting a losing battle, going through six presidents, surviving an attack by the state to revoke its certification, and weathering ad­verse publicity. 
On Sunday, the 20-member board of trustees decided the financial problems were insur­mountable, and voted unanimously to close and try to place the 300 students plus faculty in other schools. 
A formal news statement said that decreased enrollments, spiral· ing costs, deteriorating facilities and a long·term debt "have limited the school's flexibility." . 
Since 1968, about 75 colleges in the United States have closed, but it is unclear whether there is any trend in this direction. The number of colleges open has increased, and officials at two other experimental colleges say most of Franconia's problems were unique. 
Ira Goldenberg, the college's president, had said it was running at a deficit this year of j,140,000. Contacted yesterday by tekphone, he said its total debt anwunted to $1.3 million, and the fa, ~~lty had not been paid for December and January. 
"I don't think the e::p•.-riment failed.'' he said, because in his 2 112 years as president the college had established new programs "that made educational sense." But he added "that we couldn't overcome the sins of the past," including an ultra-permissive image and ''a disastrous financial situation." 
When it first opened, the college had few friends in New Hamp­shire's conservative North Coun­try. It was criticized for its courses, which had no grades, and which along with more standard offerings included such subjects as draft evasion, women's liberation, prison reform, mountain climbing, carpentry and ~ourmet cooking. 
Among Goldenberg's innova­tions were a human services pro­gram for the elderly, a prison education program, and programs in which students became advo­cates for the poor in employment and welfare matters. 
Goldenberg said he hopes other colleges in the state will pick up those programs. He also said he does not know where he will go. 
Over the years, the college was raided by state police in efforts to find drugs, and was denounced editorially for transgressions rang­ing from sex on campus to com­plaints about dog-soiled dormi­tories. 
But John Lyman, a Franconia selectman, said yesterday that times had changed. "Ten years ago," he said, "there would have been people who would have said 'good riddance' or 'so what?' but that picture has turned around ... The college has been a plus.'' He said the town would lose financial­ly. 
Figures from the federal Office of Education show a fluctuating pattern for college closings since 1969 -as few as three in one year and as many as 13 -alongside a sympathetic neighboring colleges, tried to block a federal grant for a ogy professor at Harvard and Yale, 

gradual increase in the number of and has good relations with its cooperative program with a high succeded Botstein in 1975. 
colleges open • 1,254 in 1969-70 community. 
school and threatened to revoke the Among other small' institutions and 1,370 last year. Bruce Carns of Another experimental school, school's charter for sponsoring a overcome by financial troubles are 
the Bureau of Higher Education Goddard College in Plainfield, Vt., conference by the New England Bennett College in Millbrook, N.Y. commented: "A lot of small col­also appears in different shape. 
Prisoners' Association. and Briarcliff College in Briarcliff leges have closed, but the rate Finance director Robert Leavitt To help Franconia to stay open, Manor, N.Y. Both sold off their appears to have been pretty high says last fiscal year ended with a students and faculty took over assets last year. Another well-pub­all along." surplus and this year the budget is serving meals, running the mail­licized closing was that of Parsons Richard Alpert, associate dean of balanced at $5 million -about the roam, keeping accounts and being College in Fairfield, Iowa, in June,avant-garde Hampshire College in same as three or four years ago. 
janitors. 1973. That liberal arts college had Amherst, Mass.,· said: "The fact At Franconia, debts almost In 1970, the college attracted become known as a ''second that Franconia closed has almost no forced a closing in 1968, and the national attention by naming Leon chance" school for students who implications for us as far as I can school reorganized. But troubles Botstein, then 23, ~s the country's couldn't make it elsewhere. It lost gather." He said Hampshire is in continued. Gov. Meldrim Thom­youngest college p~esident. Gold­accreditation, enrollment shriv­
better financial shape, is near son, a conservative Republican, enberg, a former assistant psycho!-eled, and it went bankrupt. 
The Evelynwood challenge:
Bring the toughest textbook or re·ading material you own to tonight'sFree Speed Reading Lesson and we'll show you bow to read it faster, with comprehension! 
If you're like most people, you're probably skeptical We'il show you how to read faster. with comprehen­about our ability to make Speed Reading work for you. sion. And, remember, we're not using our 
O.K. Tonight we'd like the opportunity to prove, as materials... books that you may feel too easy...we're we have to millions, that you can read with com­using yours ...the toughest you can find! prehension. If you're Jpen minded and want to improve your In fact, we ehallenge you to come to tonight's Free rt>ading ability, wt~ challenge you...challenge you to 
Speed Reading Lesson armed with the toughest tex­begin tonight, t<' make reading work for you! tbook or reading material you own, 
FREE 

SPEED READING LESSON 
EVELYN WOOD 
NOTRE READING DYNAMICS THIS 
TUES,

DAME 
WED
ACC 
4:00 AND 7:30 ONLY 
ENTER GATE 2 
Make reading work for you! 
• 



-~------------------------­
Tuesday, January 24, 1978 the observer 
7

Despite majority disfavor 
Recommendatio~ns made to ordain homosexuals 
NEW YORK (AP)-The United tion in society in general as well as to ordain a homosexual. Presbyterian Church was thrown in church life. An even larger majority -80 into the forefront of the battle over The recommendations by majority percent of members and 73 percent ordination of acknowledged homo­of a 19 member United Pre:;by­of pastors -indicate they would not sexuals yesterday after a com­terian task force on the i11sue accept such a person as their mittee report recommended that projects the Protestant body into a pastor. they be accepted. showdown test over it. However, the task force majority 
But there were indications that a That will come at the chur•~h's • 14 of 19 members asked the majority of the denomination's 2.6 governing general assembly in church to adopt a policy that a million members. strongly oppose May in San Diego, with prosp1~cts homosexual may ~ ordained "if such a position, making its adop­for sharp conflict. the person manifests such gifts as tion highly questionable. However, a recent national samp­are required for ordination." 
The issue has flared widely in ling of opinion in the church fmmd But the other five members, in a various denominations 1:ecently, that a heavy majority • 71 perc:ent minority report, asked the church along with the open drive by of members and 68 percent of to declare that "our present under­homo_:;exuals against discrimina-pastors would regard it as improper standing of God's will for his 
WHERE WILL YC-U GET THE MONEY FOR MEDICAL SCHOOL? 
Four years of medical school is going to cost a bundle. Whdre will it come from? A lot of students drop out of medical school because the money simply runs out. Will this happen to you? 
. The U. S. Navy Health Professions ..Scholarship Program could be your
\ ' 
answer. The Navy pays full tyition, books and all fees. Then gives you $400 a month to help with personal expenses while you are in school. And it's all tax free. 
This is a scho~arship program that is based 1entirely upon scholastic standing and not personal need. There is a lot here for you, so for more information call (312) 657-2169, or write: 
Medical Programs Offic4n Bldg. 41, N.A.S. Glenview, Ill. 60026 
NA.VY MEDICAL ~CORPS. AS FAR AS YOUR '~MBITION AND ABILITIES WILL ITAKE YOU. 
•NOTICES 

CONTACT LENS WEARERS. Save on brand name hard and soft lens supplies. Send lor free Illustrated catalog. Contact Lens Supplies, Box 6453, Phoenix. Ariz­ona 85011. 
Typing done. Fast. accurate, reasonable service. Close to campus. Ph. 272·7866. 
Typing. Reasonanble rates. Call 6051. 
Accurate. Fast Typing MRS. DONOHO 232-0746 Hours 8AM to6 PM. 
Dissertations. manuscripts. paper typed. IBM Selection II. Linda's Letter~. 287­4971. ' 
--------------·--­
NEED QUALITY TYPING? Executary, Inc. Professional Typing Service IBm Correcting Selectrics. $.85 per page minimum. Call 232-0898. "When you want the Best." Resumes: $.300 per page. 
FOR RENT 

Near NO: Cape Cod, two bedrooms. fireplace, partially furnished. 272-6174 evenings. 
LOST & FOUND 

Lost: Set of keys by ACC Ice Rink Honda key. Please call 277-Q222, 234-8279 or turn In to rink Pro Shop lor Thelma. 
Found: In Lafortune student center, 2 days before Christll)as. avaluable writing Instrument. Call Maribeth 3803 to identi­
fy. 
Found: Pair of wire-rimmed glasses in a brown cigarette-type case on the road between the Library and O'Shag. Call 8842. 
WANT'ED 
Competent, reliable typist for the Obselr· ver. Need typist to fill: Sunday 10 pm-1 am. If interested please contact Karen at 
4-1-5404. 

Will pay your price lor GA Marquette th:. Call 7946. 
2 Marquette BB tix. Call Don 233-8036. 
Two roommates for Campus View apt!.. for the remainder of the semester. Call 277-2761 after 7:00. 
One roommate to share apartment at Campus View. Call Bill at 277-3509. 
Need 4 GA's for Davidson b-ball game. Colin 8689. 
1or 2 B-ball tix for Marquette. Call 6326. 
Badly need Marquette tix. Tom 1066. 
Somebody to take over my lease -to sxhare an apartment -cheap. 2 block:s from campus. 8886. 
Need riders to-from Rochester N.Y. Jan. 29th. weekend. Call Tim 1045. 
House parent room & board &$85 wk. tax free: close to campus -flexible hours. 232-4805. 
Skis -Rossignol Roc 550's with Salomon 505's excellent condition. Dave 277­4784. 
Sti II need books? Pandora's has used, inexpensive books for many N D classes. We also buy used books. 937 South Bend Ave. (near Corby's) 233-2342. 
FULL COLOR COTTON BOWL PIC­TURES NOW AVAILABLE. CALL 8982. 
Bic 981 turntable, only 3 months old. Comes with Shure M91 ED cartridge, walnut base and dustcover. Must sell. Call 3058. 
Portable GE dishwasher, butcher block, top, $60, 277-2131. 
PERSONALS 
Thanks to all who helped make sure I'd still be in the University after my extended vacation. G 
Tom Feifar for Little Miss Paddlefish. 
ALL SMC REPORTERS: Mandatory meeting -Thursday, 6:30 p.m. in SM*C office • baSement of Regina South. 
Get soaked to the gills ... Paddleflsh Happy Hour this Friday from 3-6 at the Library. T-shirt orders will be taken. Also, there will be voting for Little Miss Paddleflsh. 
people precludes the ordination of avowed, practicing homosexuals." 
The task force, chaired by Vir ginia Davidson, a Rochester, N.Y. lay woman, includes Biblir.al scho­lars, theologians and spe· ~'!.liSts in counseling, medicine and tJ.e social sciences. 
The issue grew out of q · query 
posed by the New·York City presbytery, the local church gover­ning unit, asking the national assembly to rule in 1976 whether an acknowledged homosexual, otherwise qualified, could be or­dained. 
That assembly held that such an ordination ''would at the present time be injudicious if not im­proper,'' but set up the special task force to provide more light on the question. 
In effect, the task force majority said decisions about ordination should be left where they always have been with local congregations and local governing presbyteries having the duty of determining "the fitness of candidates." 
The report said the local units, if the recommendations are adopted, may take divergent courses on the matter. It said the policy would "threaten the unity" of the church "only if we allow it to undennine our common ultimate loyalty to Jesus Christ." 
In recent times, two ac­knowledged homosexuals have been ordained in U.S. churches, but in both cases, the steps were taken by local church units without approval of the denominations as a whole. 
Navy ROTC 
ceremony to be 
held in AC~C 
The Change of Command and Awards Ceremony for the Navy ROTC will be held in the ACC Concourse at 4:30 p.m. on Thursday. 


Happy Hour this Friday at the Library from 3-6. Be there! ! Sponsored by the P.F.C. 
Vote Tom Feifar for Little Miss Paddle­fish. 
To Pangborn Sub-basement, You throw a great part¥! When's the next bumper pool rematch? SMC Mudville Midgets 
You will vote Tom Feifar for Little Miss Paddlefish. How could you be so stupid not to? 
Help me celebrate my birthday by selling me 2 tix to the Maryland game. Call Kate 
1264. 

His gills are the best! Tom Feifar tor Little Miss Paddlefish. 
There is nothing fishy about Tom Feilar as L.M.P.F. 
our talented trimmers will give you an exciting new haircut or reshape your present style. Reg. 6.50 now • • • 3.25 
Offer good Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday 
•with this ad. Shampoo, blow dry cut extra. -CaU 233-4111, ext. 275 for an appointment. 
IElUTY SALON-SIXTH FLOOI-IOIEITSON'S 
ROBERTSON'S 
Classified ad rates 
RATES. Classified ads are billed according to the chart below. 
NUMBER OF DAYS 
1 2 3 4 5 
Cll 

c 1-10 1.00 1.30 1.55 1.75 2.00 
~· 11-15 1.35 1.. 85 2.25 2.50 2.85 
16-20 1.65 2.30 2.55 2.95 3.20
~ 

Ll. 21-25 2.05 2.90 3.50 4.25 4.90 
0 

26-30 2.45 3.50 4.25 5.15 5.90
a: 

w 31-35 2.80 4.00 4.75 5.65 6.20 Ia 36-40 3.15 4.. 55 5.55 7.10 8.65 
~ 

41-45 3.40 5.05 6.20 7.45 9.40
:::;) 

z 46-50 3.90 5.55 6.90 8.20 10.20 
' 

PAYMENT. AU classifieds must be pre-paid, either in person or through the mail. 
DEADUNE. All classified ads must be received by 5:00p.m., twa days priOr to the issue in which the ad is to run. The Obeerver office will accept classifieds Monday through Friday, 10:00 a.m. to 5:00p.m. · 
• 
the obsanar Tuesday, january 24, 1978 
8 

at the mgment. He will have a castbyTonyPaee on his left wrist for at least oneSport. Writer 
month and he definitely will not play in Wednesday's game against The Notre Dame basketball team West Virginia. 
overcame a mild case of the He may, however, 
be able to play with the cast Sunday post-UCLA blahs last night to against Maryland. 
defeat a scrappy team from Dart­Batton and Williams shared themouth, 78-64. The victory raised scoring honors for the Irish with 18the Irish's home court record to a markers apiece. Each had 12 ofperfect 9-0 and moved their record those points in the second half.

for the season to 12-3. 

Freshman Orlando Woolridge,The key to the Notre Dame starting at a forward spot for thevictory was a 23-5 spurt which the second consecutive game, added 12Irish ran off midway through the points including the gamesecond half. With 12:45 remaining 
in the game, the Indians' Doug points including the game's most Romatzik stole the ball from Dave spectacular play: a two-handed Batton under the Dartmouth basket slam dunk. Kelly Tripucka also 
and laid the ball in to make the reach double figures by netting five score 45-53. This was as close as field goals. the Indians, who led at halftime, In the Notre Dame locker room 
were to be for the rest of the after the game the concensus was contest. Batton, Duck Williams that the UCLA game had drained and Rich Branning provided the the Irish both physically and emo­scoring punch during this streak tionally and caused the sloppy first with eight, four, and four points half play. Phelps stated, "Dart­
respectively. mouth played a great game, but The important aspect of this this was a great day to play us. streak was the Notre Dame de­UCLA drained us. In the first half fense. During the first half, the we were sluggish and tired, but we Indians moved the ball around well came back in the second half to 
often finding teammates close to play with more intensity. I don't 
the basket for uncontested shots. know how those Atlantic Coast 
The Irish kept Dartmouth from Conference teams do it, because scoring during this span by playing playing back to back is tough; it is good pressure defense and forcing hard to maintain the necessary the visitors to take perimeter shots. intensity. 
In the first half, when the Indians Co-captain Dave Batton said, 
were outscoring the Irish 35-34, "They were a tough opponent, they they shot 52% from the field. played a good patient game. We When the Notre Dame defense were just flat in the first half." tightened in the second half, Guard Jeff Carpenter, who was Dartmouth's field goal shooting again in the starting lineup, 
percentage droppped to 32%. agreed, "They were a good team Bill Hanzlik and Jeff Carpenter but we did not play all that well in were particularly effective defens­the early part of the game. Better 
ively. Hanzlik had the task of defense on our part was the key to guarding the Indians' top player, the victory." Sterling Edmonds, who had scored 14 first half points. Edmonds Williams, who came off the finished the game with 23 points 
bench for the second straight but he scored only six of them while game, was happy to play a part in Hanzlik was in the game. Carpent­
the victory, "It's the coach's er. meanwhile, played sound de­decision about the starting lineup, fense and controlled the flow of the 
but I just want playing time. I've game when he was in"the lineup. come off the bench before though 
Notre Dame missed center Bill so starting doesn't make that much Laimbeer during the first half as difference." they were outrebounded by the The next Notre Dame game will Indians 17-15. After the half-time be on Wednesday evening at 8 adjustments, the Irish came back to p.m. against WestVirginia in the grab 24 second half caroms while ACC. The Mountaineers defeated
-
Dartmouth could manage only 14. Notre Dame last season in Morgan­The status of Laimbeer is uncertain town. Ted Robinson:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::. 
Vida's Blues 
============================================================================================ One Man's View
Spring training begins in four weeks and Vida Blue doesn't have a team. The Cincinnati Reds fully believe and expect Vida to be wearing a Reds' uniform in Tampa, but, alas, Bowie Kuhn has different notions. 
Yes, Bowie has once again taken it upon himself to uphold and preserve the • 'best interests of baseball." He did it so wonderfully in the summer of 1976 that he probably feels it is his duty to do it now. 
So, a grand trial is currently being held in Bowie's New York offices. The chief culprit is Bowie's favorite owner, Charlie Finley. Finley sold or traded (depending on your use of the English language) Blue to Cincinnati for minor league first baseman Dave Revering and $1.75 million in December. And Bowie is afraid that this is bad for baseball. 
If the plot sounds familiar, you are obviously a baseball fan. Not more than 18 months ago •. Kuh~ pr~vented Finley from disposing of sO?n-to-be free agents Joe Rudt, RoUte Fmgers and Blue for cash sums totalmg $3.5 · million. The sales weren't in the best interest of baseball. 
The fact that Finley was a businessman and was attempting to execute sound business sense in dealing the ghree players while he could receive something in return mattered not to Kuhn. Only that Charley Finley was disrupting the sacred structure of the game. 
The next logical question I can think of is, "Was Kuhn's action beneficial in upholding the best interests?" Well, Oakland had the second worst record in the majors this past season, fielding a team comprised primarily of triple-A stars. But, I'm sure the fact that Finley lost those three players and received nothing in return had nothing to do with Oakland's decline. It was probably a poor managing job. 
I guess it was in the best interests of baseball that Oakland lose six front-line players to the initial free-agent draft. After all, Oakland is such a baseball hotbed that it would readily support a team that couldn't win 70 games. And the fact that Blue wasn't a free agent and had to stay in Oakland certainly helped the team quite a bit on the field. 
Maybe Bowie feels that baseball is better off with a mediocre team in Oakland. Maybe he feels baseball is better off without Charlie Finley. But Bowie seems to have the wrong best interests in mind. 
· What about Vida Blue's best interests? Was it better for Vida to stay and Oakland where he could single handedly pull a team from the doldrums and lead them back to respectability? Or should Vida be allowed to bring his obvious talents elsewhere for better use? those are the questions the Almighty Kuhn is faced with. 
The irony of the situation is that Kuhn may be wasting his time. Blue 
has filed a lawsuit in California against Finley charging fraud. Blue claims that Finley signed him to a contract on June 15, 1976 under the stipulation that Blul' '"iould not be traded. One hour later came the attempted sale to the '{ ankees. 
Blue feels Finley acted as an agent for the Yankees and "conned" him into signing the contract. If the court agrees, Blue will become a free agent a Ia Catfish Hunter. Then, it will be time for Bowie Kuhn to discover "the best interests of Vida Blue." 

Dave Batton hits two of his 18 points in last night's 78-64 win over Dartmouth. [Photo by Leo Hans 
ND-SMC women's basketball briefs· 
Notre Dame's women's basketball The Saint Mary's Basketball Saturday, Saint Mary's saw a le11 team is alive and well and ac­Team had it's ups and downs last point cushion melt away as the)
cording to Sharon Petro "looking week as it romped over IUPU-Fort dropped a close game to Indiana good." Wayne in one contest and lost a Tech, 49-44. The. squad returned early from close decision to Indiana Tech in The team returns to action their se:nester vacations to get in another. toni~_ht, hosting Valparaiso \flt:IJ 
some practice time before last In the game against IUPU, which tipolf time scheduled for 8 p.m. Tuesday's game against Purdue­the Belles won 49-35, a second half Calumet. The Irish came up scoring slump was broken up by **************** 
There will be an important
victorious in the contest edging out Karen Hooper, who came off the 
meeting for the Men's Interllall
their opponents, 50-46. bench to spark her team with six 
Basketball captains Wednesday,
quick points. Nancy Nowillled all
Petro says she has seen great Jan 25, at 4:30 p.m. in the ACC
scorers with 18 points and shared
strides in the team's ability to wl!lrk the rebounding honors with tea­Auditorium. Important schedule together. Said the coach, "They all 
mate Martha Kelly._ Noealk and revisions will be distributed so all
had to live with each other for four 
Kelly had ten caroms apiece. teams must be present. 
days at the Morris Inn until the dorms were reopened and I think this time served to bring them closer; they really got to know each other. This unity of spirit has been reflected in the way they're 
*Observer
playing now." The team's 3-0 record will be challanged tonight when they take on St. Joseph's college. "It's going to be a tough match," predicted Petro. "The St. Joe group is a strong, well balanced 
Sports
team." Tip-off time is scheduled for 7 
p.m. in the main Arena.· 
Paul Stevenson---------------------------­
The Irish Eye
----------------Irish Upswing 
Thanks to Alabama's 78-62 upset of top-ranked Fordham will be a good test, just because it will be Kentucky last night, there are no more undefeated played in the Garden and South Carolina on th road teams in college basketball. That just exemplifies the two days la!er will be just as difficult. Then the~e 's balance in college basketball today. ~orth Carobna State three days after the co~test wttht 
As for Notre Dame, chalk up victory number 12 for e Gamecocks. Too man~ people are lookmg ahead the Fighting Irish basketball team. Although at to Marquetteand overloo~ng the Wolfp~~k. halftime the situation was questionabl , Notre Dame W~ll, after North Caroltna State the tnsh face the came back to defeat Dartmouth, 78_ _ That leaves Wamors. Then a week later the No~e Da~e cagars
64

the Irish eight h f th · · travel to Dayton. The Ayers love havtng thetr contest 
20 1

gam~s s Y0 etr wtn goa· with the Irish right after the Marquette clash. 
Notre.Da.me defimtely prov~d that they were among Alii in all, the schedule just doesn't let up. 111e the nation s best ~y defeatmg UC:LA on S"!nday irish looked super at the start of the season, a little flat aftern?On. James Wilkes may have gtven the Irish the over the holidays, but now they seems to ha'o'e game tn ~e last four seconds on the fre~ ~brow, b~t emerged from their "Christmas condition." then agam, Notre Dame gave up opportumties of thetr After a major victory over the Bruins, Notre Dame own. was expected to be a bit tired and down against the 
With Dartmouth already passed, it's time to look Big Green. At least the seond half of last nights game ahead to West Virginia. Just remember last year proved the Irish have what it takes. when the Irish were boasting a nine game winning Notre Dame is starting to peak and come into their streak. That was before they faced the Mountaineers. own once again. It's up to the fans mthe arena rto 
Yes, that 81-681oss in Morgantown ws one that many insure that they maintain that level of performan;;:e would like to forget. Sure, West Virginia was good, every game. Maybe some of the games don't seem but they were also playing a bit over their heads, like that important, but each contest is an important ste.,. most teams do against Notre Dame. Yes, many people say that Notre Dame has the 
The game tomorrow night will be another in a long greatest student body in the country and mcst series of key tests for the Irish cagers. Yes, UCLA students on this campus believe that. Well, the spirit may be over, and maybe the Irish did sweep the that has earned the reputation has to be expressed oat 
Bruins, 6ut twovictories over UCLA does not send every game. Notre Dame to the NCAA tournament. Keep the IriSh • on their current upswing. The The Irish still have several difficult games support better be trememdous now, because on the remaining on their schedule. After the Mountaineers, road and in the NCAA's Notre Dame is not going rto 
the Irish face .Maryland this Sunday and don't think have 11,345 screaming ACC fans at their disposal. Lefty Driesell has forgottn the 80-79 overtime loss to Yes, the Notre Dame fans have aided the Irish on Notre Dame last season. several occasions. But, this squad is capable of 
Holy Cross and DePaul are not too far away. The winning consistenly, at home or on the road. 
Crusaders are not having the season they did last Take each game individually, because the 20 game year, but they are still a tough ball club. Meanwhile, mark is still a way off. _Qne win at a time and 100 the Blue Demons are having a great year with only percent support t~e enttre route. The.re has to be two losses one of those defeats being a six point loss enough vocal backtng left over for the Irish to take all to Marqu~tte. . • the way to St. Louis in March. 
\ 







