--------------~ ~-~~·-~~­

/ an indept-ndent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's 
Tuesday, October 31, 1978
Vol. XIII, No. 39 ' 
$70,000 in damages 
Arsonist-sniper strikes over break 
by Gregory Solman the Senior Bar was partially to the South Bend police forStaff Reporter damaged by fire, and at 5:45 that ballistics tests, Conklin said.
morning, another shed adjacent to 
Harold Lowe of Notre Dame se­Five fires were started, causing the Reyniers Germ-Free Labora­curity estimated the bullets asdamage in excess of $70,000 and tory became the next target of being .38 caliber. Lowe said that two security policemen were fired presumably the same arsonist. 

the slugs, almost the size of rifle upon by a sniper in a bizarre series The sound of wailing sirens bullets, were "definitely of lethalof arson attempts that occurred on 

continued to fill the night early size."
the first four nights during last 
Monday when the Notre Dame 
After the incident, the University week's Fall Break. 

boathouse on the east shore of St. 
hired a private arson investigator.

According to Richard Conklin, Joseph's Lake was almost com­The State Fire Marshall was alsodirector of Information Services, pletely destroyed by a fire that alerted, according to Capt. Elmerthe "beefed-up" security ale·rt that 
caused more than $60,000 damage. 
Chickar of the St. Joseph Countybegan last Sunday remains in The second floor of the boathouse, Police. Chickar also commentedeffect. built in 1890, was completely that the county detective bureau"We'll have to be even more destroyed, and only the stone will be investigating the incidentswatchful when the students return foundation of the first floor re­and will be seeking a suspect inand the residence halls are full," mained unscathed. 

connection with the fires andConklin remarked last Wednesday Responding to the boathouse sniping incident. 

after the last of the fires had been 
blaze at 2:30a.m., a pair of security 
The -boathouse fire was reportedextinguished. "The fact that he 

guards, T.L. Balogh and Robert 
under control at 3:50 a.m., the(the. sniper) has shot at two police 

Gardini, were shot at by a sniper. 
Notre Dame Yacht Club's sail­officers shows that he has no boats, stored inside the boathousequalms about taking human life." The two officers were traveling . during the winter, were along the

by car along the road betw•~en the
The incidents began at 1:13 a.m. 
lakeshore at the time of the frre and

Ave Maria Press and the Power
Saturday, when a storage shed were unharmed. However, two
Generator plant when they heard
near Reyniers Germ-Free Lab was "porpoises"--flat-bottom water
gunfire. As they were getting out
burned causing "minimal dam­age." Four hours later, another of the vehicle, a bullet glanced of crafts--and some sails, were 
the windshield, they later reported. destroyed.

blaze occurred, razing the vacant barn near the Douglas Retreat A second bullet entered the door The last of the related incidents House, at 18638 Douglas Road. of the car on the passenger side, as occured at 2:15 Tuesday morning, The barn was housing art supplies the door was opening.. Both men when the same officers that had and unfinished paintings of a fell quickly to the ground to avoid earlier been fired upon, Balogh and former Notre Dame art student, injury. The pinned-down officers Gardini, surprised ·the suspected Bill O'Malley of 3203 Chelsea and their patrol car momentarily arsonist at the Douglas Retreat Road. The supplies and paintings blocked the first arriving firetrucks House. The suspect fled into the were valued at about $1,000. attempting to reach the seem! of wooded area behind the house, 
the fire. leaving behind blankets he had
Early Sunday at 2:55 a.m., the maintenance storage shed south of The slugs were turned over the stuffed into a partially-opened 
Peace talks resume in D.C. 
Face-to-face Israeli-Egyptian opened a meeting to prepare for a stab against the Arab struggle to peace talks have resumed in Wash­summit conference aimed at coun­liberate Palestine." The confer­ington after a lapse of more than a tering the Camp David agreements ence is being attended by represen­week and an Israeli spokesman and the bilateral Egyptian-Israeli tatives of all members of the Arab says there is "no crisis" in the peace drive. League except Egypt. The summit negotiations. Iraqi Foreign Minister Saadoun convenes Thursday. 
In Baghdad, Iraq, meanwhile, Hamadi, appealing for unity, said Israeli Prime Minister Mena­
Arab foreign ministers yesterday the Camp.David accords were "a chem Begin conferred with his 
Cabinet in Jerusalem yesterday 


about the Washington talks, and the five-hour meeting ended with a decision to form two Cabinet committees to study economic questions and ~onflicting Egyptian and Israeli claims for compensation for oil extracted from the Sinai Peninsula during Israel's 11-year occupation. 
Direct negotiations resumed Sunday night with a two-hour session between the heads of the two delegations at a downtown Washington hotel. Diplomatic sources in Washington described the meeting as "businesslike," but there was no immediate word on whether any headway was made towaro resolving a treaty text. 
Again acting as middleman, Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance summoned the Israeli delegation to the State Department yesterday for further talks. American and Israeli legal experts also met yesterday morning to discuss treaty lan­guage., 
In the session Sunday, Lt. Gen. 
Kamal Hassan Ali, the Egyptian 
defense minister, and BoutJ:os Gha­
li, the acting foreign minister, 

called on Israeli Foreign Minister 
Moshe Dayan and Def~nse Mini­
ster Ezer W eizman in their suite. 
Israeli officials said the Egyptians 
requested the meeting. 

In Jerusalem, Israeli Cabinet Secretary Arieh Naor said of the talks: "As far as I understand there is no crisis at all. The negotiations go on and all of us are hopeful." 
[continued on page 8] screened window. The officers 

estimated that the blankets were to 
be used as a "wick" to ignite the . Douglas House. 
· The Douglas Retreat House is owned by the University and used by Student Affairs for meetings, retreats, and social activities of residence hall staffs. 
"It is unlikely that anyone out­side of the University would know about the University's ownership of the house," Conklin said. 
The suspect was listed by the officers as being a 5'11" male caucasian, wearing a browin fingertip-length coat and a pair of blue jeans. 
"There is no hard evidence 
linking the fires to any particular 
individual,'' commented Conklin, "However, there have been several interviews of people who may be able to shed some light on the investigation." 
There were no further incidents reported for the rest of the week, though the investigation into. the previous fires continues. 
"Our private arson investi­gator," remarked Conklin, "But those won't provide us with a suspect." 
Early reports of the investigator showed that with the exception of the fourth arson the second fire behind Reyniers Germ-Free Lab­oratory all of the firest were started with an "accelerant" such as gasoline or kerosene. The second Reyniers fire, however, was started with "combustible materials" as evidenced by cardboard left at the sight of the fire. 


At a news conference attended president at the conference. by Congressman John Brademas "Today our enrollment is more today at Saint Mary's College, than four times that figure. This Joseph Duffey, chairman of the grant from the NEH comes to Saint National Endowment for the Hu­Mary's today as a reaffirmation of manities, announced the award of a its strong position among women's $300,000 grant for the college's colleges." new library. The announcement of this grant, 
· one of the largest Saint Mary's hasThe 3-1 challenge grant is made · ever received, follows action takenunder the NEH Challenge Grant by the Co1lege Board of RegentsProgram, as authorized by the earlier this month. At that time theArts, Humanities and Cultural Affairs Act of 1976. The Challenge Board authorized the implementa· tion of a psecific financial supportGrants are given by NEH to program for the construction of astrengthen humanities programs. 

new library. It also appointed ali

"When the Alumnae Centennial Library was opened in 1944, Saint 
ad hoc building committee to Mary's had an enrollment of slight­
review the library program and to ly more t;han 400 students," said advise on the selection of an John M. Duggan, Saint Mary's architect and contractor. 
----,..---~--~~-_.....-~--­
I, 

the observer . 
,_News Briefs----~., 
I:::::::::::::::::::::::=::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=:::::::::=:::::::::=::::::::=:: w0 rid 
Typhoon claims 200 lives 
BINABAG, Phllllploell [AP]-The death toll from Typhoon Rita, which cut a swath across the Philippines' main island of Luzon late last week, rose to nearly 200 yesterday and many people were still missing, officials said. The toll includes 67 persons who died when the government ordered floodgates of a dam opened in Bucalan Province without giving enough warning, survivors and local officials charged. 
1==::::=:::::::=:::::::=:::::::=:::==·====::::=:::=== National 


Rape protection OK'd 
W ASIDNGTON (API· President Carter has signed a bill to protect the privacy of rape victims in federal court proceedings by restricting testimony on the victim's prior sexual behavior, the White House said yesterday. In a statement, the president said the rape measure is "designed to end the public degradation of rapt:· victims from humiliation, to eucourage the reP'Jrting of rape.'· 

Gold sales rising 
NEW YORK [API· In something of a modem day Gold Rush, people are buying gold jewelry and coins in increasing numbers -despite rising prices -as their confidence in the dollar dwindles, dealers say. "People are beginning to adopt a gold mentality like that of Europe, where you buy some gold to tuck under the mattress," Martin Skolnik, New York based jewelry manufacturer and wholesaler, said yesterday as the price of bullion went above $245 an ounce in London 

Vampire bats displayed 
'PHILADELPHIA [API-The scene was Pennsylvania, not Translvania. But there were the vampires, rustling their wings in overhead perches in a moss-filled, damp stone cave. Then they swoope~ low, sampling the blood spread across the cavern floor. The creepy rodents, feared in mythology and repellent in the flesh · are the new stars at the Philadelphia Zoo, which opened a vampire bat exhibit Sunday • just in time for Halloween. 

Sid Vreious guarded 
NEW YORK [API-Punk rocker, Sid Vicious, accused of murdering his girlfriend, was ordered placed under 24-hour guard yesterday because of press reports he might try again to commit suicide. t Vicious, once a guitarist for the now-defun<;t Sex Pistols band, was treated at Belle¥~ Hospital after slashing his wrist with a lightbulb. He has since been transfered to a psychiatric ward, where a guard is to be posted by order of Manhattan Criminal Court Judge Leon Becker. 

Weather 

Mostly sunny today and tomorrow. Cooler today with highs in the 
low to mid 60s. Fair tonight with lows in the low to mid 30s.  Highs  
tomorrow in the upper 50s to the low 60s.  
,..On Campus Today  _.  

4:30pm 
5 pm 
6:30pm 6:30pm 
7,9,11 pm 
_ 

bio seminar, "vitellogenin synthesis in aedes atropalpus," dr. suk-hee kang, 278 galvin 
mass, fr. robert griffin, sp<>n. by nd/smc right to life, grotto meeting, nd/smc ski team, little theatre Iafortune 
meeting/party, alpha phi omega, zahm basement film, "abbott and costello meet frankensteir1;" eng. aud., $1 
1 

Tony Pace Editor-in-Chief Steve Odland 
Managing Editor John Calcutt Executive Editor Barb Langhenry 
Executive Editor Rosemary Mills 
Editorial Editor Phil Cackley 
Copy Editor Jean Powley 
St. Mary's Editor 
Ann Gales News Editor 
Mike Lewis News Editor 
Diane Wilson News Editor 
Ray O'Brien 

Sports Editor Doug Otristian Photo Editor 

Consent question prompts high court to rule on abortion issues 
WASBINGTON [AP] -The Supreme Court said yesterday it will decide whether states may require unwed females under 18 to get the consent of parents or a judge before undergoing an abor­tion. 
The test case from Massachusetts may provide a dis­tionction from a 1976 Supreme Court ruling that banned laws giving parents "absolute" veto power over young girls' decisions to have abortions. 
In a busy day on the bench, the 
justices also: -Agreed to decide whether a Louisiana woman fired by former Rep. Otto Passman may sue her ex-boss for alleged sexual bias. 
Lower  courts  ruled  that  Shirley  
Davis  was  legally  barred  from  
suing.  

-Left intact a ChiCago ordinance that forces car rental companies to pay for their customers' parking tickets. Lawyers f()r Hertz and Avis told the court that the ordinance will cost their companies millions. -Said they will decide whether minors accused of crimes may be questioned by police after asking to consult with their probation offices. 
The California Supreme Court ruled that the "Miranda" doctrine protecting criminal suspects ex­tends to youths who want help from probation officers. -Agreed to decide in a case from Texas what administrative safe­guards states must provide for parents suspected of child abuse. Texas courts ruled that parents threatened with the loss of a child's custody must be given an immedi­ate hearing. -Refused to keep secret the Securities and Exchange Commission files on foriegn bribes allegedly made by International Telephone and Telegraph 
Corporation. That means details of charges against ITT are likely to be made public within the next 30 days. 
In the abortion case, a 
*The Observe~ 
Night Editor: The Great Pumpkin (Sherry Mummert) Asst. Night Editor: H. "all I got is rocks" Devitt layout Staff: Dave "black cat" Brosh, John "the wicked witch of Alumni" Smith, Dave "Broomhilda" Berg, Tom "apple bobber" Monroe (Margo "tight end" Krach didn't show) Sports layout: Mark "razor blades in the apple" Perry Typists'; Mardi "candy apples" Nevin, lisa "what a treat" DiValerio, Tom "isn't my mask terrific" Pipp and Pete "I don't need a mask" McFadden E.M.T.: boo! (what do you expect from ME) Day Editor: John "I waited all night in the pumpkin patch" Ferroli Copy Reader: Debbie "I was there too! How come I didn't see you?" Dahrling 
Ad layout: David "E for Eerie" Wood Photographer: Dave "I spent the whole night in the Dark­room & missed Halloween'> Rum bach 
Paper of the Week: "Scoop" & Co. again. See Scoop, I didn't forget you! 
The Observer Is pulllllshed Mon­dey through Frldey exatpt during exem end VK8tlon periods. Tile Observer Is published by the students of Notre Deme Md S.lnt Mery's College. Subscriptions mey be pun:hesed for 520 per yeer CS 1 0 per semester) from The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Deme, Indian• 465S6. Se<Dntl cless postege peld, Notre Deme, 
three-judge federal court in Boston abort a fetus in any stage of her 
struck down the Massachusetts law pregnancy. after ruling that it unconstitu­Ifthe parents refused to consent, tionally infringed on the privacy a state judge could allow the rights of "mature minors." abortion if ruling that it was in the 
Under the invalidated law, minor's best interests. If the parents always had to be consulted parents and judge refused consent, when an unwed minor wanted to the abortion would not be allowed. 





FARE-DEAL 
stand by rates as low as 


'300 
to Chicago 
Regular Reserve Fee '18.00 
Indiana Toll Free 800/552-2580 South Bend 287-5313 
an  Special Holy Day Mass ALL SAINTS LITURGY  
Ca iiJPUS  
m iniStry  5:00pm  
Wednesday Nov. 1  

Sacred Heart Church Celebrant: Rev. William Toohey, C.S.C. 
There will also be an All Saints Mass in Sacred Heart Church Church at 
11:30 am on Wed. 
Check hall bulletin boards for times of masses in dorms. 
-~ 


micfiael &co. · Hair Concepts 
1Hair desjgns for Men & Women~ 


lndlene, 4"56. The ObJerver Is • member of 
291·1001 

the Auoclated Preu. All repro­duction rights ere reserved. 
master char e

.._________,".........-............................................ 
J with the emphasis on Easy Care' 
J II North  open late tues.-thurs. Spm 272-7222 ¥2 mile east of notre dame 18381 Edison at lnd 23  
.-outh  2041 E. Ireland at Ironwood  



Tuesday, Odober 31, 1978 

In Monday meeting 

CLC discusse~; directives 
by Sue Wuetcher Senior Staff Reporter 

A proposal establishing proce­dure dealing with University direc­tives was the main topic of discus­sion at last night's Campus Life Council meeting. 
The proposal, submitted by a subcommittee formed to study the issue, stated that directives issued by the Dean of Students can only enforce existing rules and regula­tions. Future prohibitions may be reviewed by student representa­tives who can, if there is disagree­ment, appeal the directive to the Vice President of Student Affairs, and if necessary, to the provost and the president of the University. 
Dean of Students James Roemer noted that there was a complicated series of issues involved. ''The key thing is the part of the proposal that says that the Dean of Students can only enforce existing rules and regulations. That sets the issue for discussion," he said. "Should the Dean of Students have power beyond that?" 
Roemer listed three areas where he felt directives may be in order: cans and bottles being thrown at pep rallies. girls being passed up 
DOONESBURY 
~ 
we'Re a4CJ< AND TAJ..Ki/t/6 WITH MAMlHON RUNNeR. Ml/£5 POTIISH. AlfTHOR. OF TH/3 8t;ST-5eLJ.JNG ''THE Cf»>PID/3 BOa<OFP/IIN.Q 
THAT'S RIGHT, ZIJNKcR. YOU JlJ5TCAN'T9/Y13NOU(jfl A80lfT ­
I 
l 

the stands at football games, and irresponsible drinking at keggers before football games. 
"If I use the proposal re,garding these, I don't know what rule to use. I must make sure I'm backed up 100 percent," he said. Roemer added that he must also have the ability to legally summon students to his office and hold hearings. "There is no way I feel in good conscience I could go along with their recommendations," he main­tained. 
Roemer noted that the issue actually was whether the ability to establish new prohibitions should reside in the CLC. "H won't work," he said. "Students are always reluctant to have directives passed." 
Student Body President Andy McKenna stated that not to allow the council to function in this way damages the integrity established so far. 
The proposal, amended to. read "The directives issued by the Dean of Students enforce existing rules or regulations or establishes special prohibitions which main­tain the good order of the commun­ity," was passed with four dissen­ting votes. 
by Garry Trudeau 

MI/.£S, YOU ARGUE IN >17UR 
BOOK. THAT WliN THRalGH RUNNING IS NOT ONLY 60(){) fOf< 7H/3 8(){)'1, IT'S 60.')[) fOR THE MINI), WO, R/6HT? 



In other business, McKenna 
· submitted to the council a proposed agenda for the year ahead. He noted that it was not a complete list, only containing those problems identified so far. 




thethunder" weekat 
~ ® 
s. 
Come to the new McDonalds right in your own backyard, at 1519 N. Ironwood. All this week, we'll be doing it all for you as part of our gala "Grand Opening~ 
We1l be offering...FREE SHAMROCK 
SHAKES with the coupon in this ad and 
the purchase of any sandwich and fries . 
.All week long from 4 pm. till cl~s~g. 
FILM HIGHLIGHTS ofthe N.D. National 
Championship '77 season. November 1 
from 4 to 8 p.m. 

A "GRAND OPENING" SURPRISE PRIZE that1l warm the cockles of 
your heart as well as other portions ofyour anatomy. 
All you have to do is fill out the coupon at 
the bottom of this ad and bring it in to 
McDonaldB. We1l draw the names of four 
lucky winners on Saturfuzy. (Of course you 
need not be anywhere in the vicinity.) 
So come on in. Get a shake. Watch the Irish shake down the thunder. And just maybe walk away with the Surprise Prize. 


~~==~
I ~~Donald's, 1519 North Ironwood. Who 
I 
knows, you just might get lucky th1s time. 
N~E------------------------­
LOCAL ADDRESS----------------­
1 TELEPHONE __________ 
This coupon good for one free Shamrock Shake with purchase 
of any sandwich and fries. Coupon val1d Oct. 30-Nov. 4, 1978 ffer good at McDonald's, 1519 North Ironwood only 


"BACK WHEN IWAS IN SCHOOL, ICOULD'VE USED ALESS FILLING BEER. ON WEEKDAYS ICARRIED 21 CREDITS. ON WEEKENDS I CARRIED DEFENSIVE TACKLES, LINEBACKERS AND WEAK STRONG SAFRIES!' 
' 


...... 
Matt Snell
' I ' 

: I Former All-Pro Fullback 
I 
' 
. 
I 
I 
! I 
I 
I 
, l I i 

1978 Mtller'.Brewtng Co. M•lw~ukee. w.s . . 

~.~~--~.------~--------~-----, 
. Tuesday, Octoher 31, 1978 the observer 
5 
District judge sentences Soviet spies to fifty years 
NEW ARK,  N.J.  [APJ  -Two  
Russians  convicted  of  trying  to  
steal  U.S.  defense  secrets  were  

sentenced to SO years in prison yesterday. The judge said he had no doubt the Soviet Union was "fully and completely behind what occurred here." 
U.S. 
District Judge Frederic B. Lacey then heard arguments on whether the pair, former em­ployees of the United Nations, should remain free pending appeal of their convictions. They could have received life sentences. 

U.S. 
Attorney Robert J. Del Tufo, who said he conferred with 

U.S. 
Attorney General Griffin Bell, requested that the defendants be allowed to remain free "for foreign policy considerations.'' But he asked that they be restricted to a portion of the Bronx, N.Y., where the Soviet residential complex is located. 


Lacey said that the defendants, Valdik A. Enger, 39, and Rudolf P. Chernyayev, 43, obviously were acting on orders from "a very high level" official whef! they engaged in the activities for which they were arrested May 20. 
•'That the Soviet Union is fully and completely behind what occurred here is beyond doubt," the judge said. Lacey said the New Jersey scheme was part of a larger network and said the stiff SO-year terms could serve as a deterrent to others. 
FBI Director William H. Webster said in Chicago last week that the number of Soviet bloc personneJ working in the United States had doubled in the last 12 years to about 2,000. The FBI in Washington said it believed the number of Soviet spies increased proportionately to the number of Soviet employees. 
Lacey said he wanted to prevent the Soviet Union from doing "what r one of their leaders once said he would do--bury us," referring to remarks once made by former Soviet premier Nikita Khrushchev. 
Solman promoted to staff reporter 
Gregory Solman has been promoted to the position of Staff Reporter on The Observer. Solman has been an Observer reporter for two years. The junior Arts and Letters major, from Caribou, UE, also is an Assistant Sports Editor for The Observer. 
COUNSELING AND CAREER DEVELOPMENT CENTER ST. MARY'S COLLEGE ON-CAMPUS RECRUITING PRO­GRAM 
Nov. 7 (Tues.) 
J.C. Penny Co. Management All Majors 

Nov. 8 (Wed.) 
IBM Corporation Computer, Marketing Rep. Computer Syst. Engineer All Majors 

Nov. 9 (Thurs.) 
Ernst & Ernst Assistant Accountant B.A.!Acct. 

Nov. 10 (Fri.) 
concurrently on two other counts-­defense attorneys that the FBI may 
The judge rejected arguments by 

conspiracy to obtain defense se­have been morally wrong to use a 
crets an actually obaining the double agent to investigate the 
secrets. possibility of a Russian spy network 
The defendants declined to operating in the United States. 
speak on their own behalf, telling Lacey sentenced the defendants 
the judge they concurred with the to SO years for conspiring to 
arguments of their attorneys that transmit defense secrets to the 
the United States should not use Soviet Union. They were also 
"vindictiveness and hostility in its sentenced to 10 years to be served 
sentencing." 
IF it WIS murder,where's the body? IF it WIS for I woman,which woman? IF its on1v. game, why the blood? 
M<D Sleuth will be shown Nov. 3 & Nov. 4 7:00pm and 10:30pm Carroll Ha/1-SMC admissiQn $.1__ sponsored by Social Commission 
EARN OVER$650AMONTH RIGHT 


YEAR. 

If you're a junior or a senior majoring in math, physics or engineering, the Navy has a program you should know about. 
It's called the Nuclear Propulsion Officer Candidate­Collegiate Program ( NUPOC-C for short) and if you qualify, you ean earn as much as $650 a month right through your . senior year. Then after 16 weeks of Officer Candidate School, you'll receive an additional year of advanced technical ·education. This would cost you thousands in a civilian school, but in the Navy, we pay you. And at the end of the year of trainJng, you'll receive a $3,000 cash bonus. 
It isn't easy. There are fewer than 400 openings and only one of every six applicants will be selected. But ifyou make it, you'll have qualified for an elite engineering training program. With unequaled hands-on responsibility, a $24,000 salary in four years, and gilt-edged qualifications for jobs· in private industry should you decide to leave the Navy later. (But we don't think you'll want to.) 
.Ask your placement officer to set up an interview with a Navy representative when he visits the campus. or contact your Navy representative at 312-65 7-216 9 (collect). If you prefer, ~end your resume to the Navy Nuclear Officer Program, Code 312-B537, 4015 Wilson Blvd., Arlington, Va. 22203, and a Navy representative will contact you directly. The l~UPOC-Collegiate Program. It can do more than help youfinish college: it can lead to an exciting career opportunity. 
Clote encounter/ 
When you're a missionary, a close encounter is an everyday occurrence. At Divine Word. Jesus is the focal po1nt in prepanng Catholic missionary priests and brothers tor close encounters in 37 different countries. 
For more information on our work, send us the coupon today. 

DIVInE WORD COllEGE 
Epworth,lowo 52045 
Name ----~-­
. Address ----­

Age Education -------­
ND 781 
St. Regis Paper Co. Controller B.A./ Acct. 


NAVY OFFICER. 
Univ. of Toledo College of Law. Law School Applicants 

ITS NOTJUSTAJOB, ITS AN ADVENTURE. 
All Majors 

the observer 

Princeton prof lectures on Descartes 
Drag your body to Corby's first annual 
Senior Bar "Monster Mash" Halloween party 
alloween Special Wednesday night
wear a costume and drink at these reduced prices all night long 
sign up for pool tourney
3 drafts s1.00 
50' a can 

Sr. Bar Semi-formal is
mixed drinks 75' 
Sunday-bids on sale now
It'll be a grave yard smash 

,..............................................., 



Dillon's Halloween Party i 
.~ 

.

i where: Lee's B.B.Q. t 
+ when: Oct. 31 7:00-12:00 •
. : 
: what? Costumes ReQuired + : why: $1.25 pitchers 
i 
• d . d "h •
: an pr1ce goes own as n1g t goes on •
: : 

i ",(\,.,\e~ 

of graduate studies. 

"This year's topic, "Philosophy of the Mind,'' deserves special attention and provides a cool reflective look at where we are and where we are going in philosophy" stated McKim. 
Rorty will lecture again at 8 p.m. on Wednesday in the Galvin Audi­torium and on Friday at 3:30 p.m. in the faculty lounge of the Memor­ial Library. 
Professor Richard Rorty 
[Photo by Dave Rumbach] 
by Don Schmid 
Professor Richard Rorty of Princeton University initiated "Perspective Lectures in Philoso­phy" last night speaking on the subject of "Descartes' Invention of 
Set n fw tl If JOII' 
·­
Ravioli 
frozen home style 
Ricptta Cheese 
Italian Bologna 
Italian Sausage 
homemade 
Imported Olive Oil 
Filippo Berio & Bertolli 
for purchase 
$20 or more 
with Nt»SMC 10 
--5%disc-ount 
r~~~~;~~~~r.lP
....____..... 
433 No. Hill St. 

the Mind'' at the Galvin Life Linguistic Turn, an important col­
Center Auditorium. lection of materials on twentieth Rorty, currently a professor of century analytic philosophy. philosophy at Princeton, is one of Rorty's many papers discussing the country's foremost lecturers on the philosophy of the mind have contemporary philosophical appeared in leading philosophical thought. He is the editor of The journals and he is the author of a 
forthr:oming book on the state of contemporary philosophy. 
In the lecture, Rorty traced the progression of philosophy through the ages and emphasized that Descartes' view of the mind-body problem is confusing to our present understanding of mind and body. Rorty maintained that the Carte­sian view resolved none of the questions regarding philosophy of the mind. 
"Philosophy needs to relive its past at times to answer its questions that arise today," Rorty added. 
The Notre Dame Philosophy Department has presented this lecture series for 13 years with over 50 speakers from around the nation participating. This year's series director is Vaugn McKim, director 
:Hair Styling •i•tt
. for 
1 menand women who like 
1 t?look 277-073 
thetr best... 

V2 mile north of campus, (U.S. 3 
N) Across from Randall's Inn 


: 10 min. specials 75• pitchers 1 min. specials so• pitchers : 
t................................................~ 
------------------------------------~------
Scandanavian seminar accepts applications 
Scandinavian Seminar is now accepting applications for its study abroad, program in Denmark, Finland, Norway or Sweden for the academic year 1979-80. The pro­gram is designed for college stu­dents, graduates and other adults who want to become part of another culture while acquiring a second language. 
An initial three-week language course, followed by a family stay whenever possible, will give the student daily opportunities to prac­tice the language and to share in the life of the community. 
For the major part of the year, the student is separated from other Americans, and lives and studies among Scandinavians at a "People's College" or some other specialized institution. 
The fee, covering tuition, room, board, and all course-connected travels in Scandinavia, is $4,600. 
-Interest-free loans are granted on 
the basis of need, as are a few 
special scholarships. 
For further information write to: 
Scandinavian  Seminar,  1 00  East  
85th  Street,  New  York,  N.Y.  
10028.  

JAM & NOTRE DAME STUDENT UNION PROUDLY 

Saturday, November 11, 8 PM 
NOTRE DAME A.C.C. Tickets: $8.50 & $7.50 Tickets available at A.C.C. Box Office. Robertson's in South Bend & Elkhart. St. Joseph Bank. Main Office & Branches, 1st Bank. Main office only. The Elkhart Truth. and the following River City Review Ticket Outlets: Suspended Chord in Elkhart, South Bend Records in Ft. Wayne. The Record Co. in Plymouth. Pants Port in Mich.gan City. Fanta-C Records in Benton Harbor. The Record Joint in Niles, Boogie Records and Just for the Record in Mishawaka. and River City Records on Western Avenue and 31 North in South Bend. 

Tuesday, October 31, 1978 the ObServer 

ll'" i'ONl"S SAO£ SAOP "! 
:====1 


Qu:~~~~~ICE
. 

REASONABLE PRICES 1.: next to Barber Shop ~~ 


: open M-F 8-5 Saturday 8-2 
.::=:======::;:;:;=====:========:::==============:===========:===========================:============;S.£=:==:===========================================:=};:~~==:.=:?.::..:.:~~~~~~~~:=:====::;:;:;:=;=;===;=;=~ il~j The Huddle Announces ·1~1l 






I I I I 

~...... ~h·•••·l• J~ri(•s 
.•.• .! 
,I offer good from Oct. 31 thru Nov. 10 ~~ 
t f
··:·: 

:i::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;.;:;:;:;:;:;:;.;:;.;:;:;:;:;:;.;:::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;.;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:; 


31 E·Z MARKET 
Open 7 days a week 7am-10pm 
Corner of J~uten and 31 1 mile sc,uth of state line 
. 

Andre Champagne on sale now 


Stroh's Lite 
Lite PBR 
All your favorite win,es 



$3.59 a 12 pac 
$3.39 a 12 pac 
$2.89 a 12 pac $5.69 a case 
Checks casht!d for Notre Dame 



SALBI SALE I SALBI 

the observer 
OCCO'S 
BARBERS 

hairstylists 531 N. Michigan 233 495 7 
.L--:~==-=========~·L Gold bullion prices in Europe of its worth against the West
~~~~~~~~· 
German mark and French franc, and 1 percent to 2 percent against most other major currencies. 
Trading was nervous and re­strained toward the close, but as one Frankfurt dealer put it: "I haven't heard of anyone talking about a recovery in the wind." 
The dollar's rapid slide over the past week apparently was due to skeptical reaction to President Carter's voluntary anti-inflation plan. 
Foreigners believe intlation is the central problem weakening the American economy. 
Lack of confidence in U.S. economic leadership has led for­eigners to convert their dollars into marks, francs, yen, precious metals or other safe havens. 
For American travelers or resi­dents abroad, the dollar's decline

Now, all Cincinnati area Notre Dame 
means higher costs for food, ac­

and St. Mary's students can fly home 
commodation and travel. But it makes the United States a com­

for $24.00 on a stand-by basis. This is 
parably "cheap" vacation spot for

direct service, without changing planes 
Europeans and lowers the cost of 
some U.S. goods on world markets. In London, the dollar lost more 

at Chicago's O'Hare. Call Toll-Free 
·-------------____________J 
than l 1/1 percent, sinking to $2.0990 to the pound. This was a gain of 3Y2 cents for the pound from $2.0630 late Friday. Sterling has appreciated 5 percent on the dollar in a week. 
Anyone who bought gold bullion at $169.50 an ounce at the start of the year was gloating on the sidelines amid the dollar's troubles Monday, because gold has risen 45 percent in value since then. 
Gold hit record high prices in both London and Zurich. Bullion closed in London Monday at $245.25 a Troy ounce, a record leap of Sll from Friday's closing $234.25 and a gain of nearly 5 percent in one day. 
In Zurich, Europe's biggest bul­lion market, gold jumped nearly 4 percent in value to $242.875, from Friday's $234.625.$ 
Peace talks resume 
[continued from page 1) 
The talks had seemed to be in limbo over the weekend as the State Department analyzed the positions of the two sides. Vance met separately with both delega­tions Saturday. 
Face-to-face negotiations were suspended 10 days ago after the delegations agreed tentatively on a U.S.-sponsored draft treaty. Both sides later returned with what U.S. sources said were proposals for "far-reaching changes" in the draft. 
Further negotiations were then delayed last week because of a U.S.-Israeli dispute over Israel's declaration that it intends to ex­pand Israeli settlements in the occupied West Bank of the Jordan River. 

Tuesday, October 31, 1978
.---------. .
t Artist Tool Shed t Gold pnces soar 
: coo:~~~::~~~s:::~:UR : Dollar hits record low 
~ ART SUPPLIES 

t 
LONDON [AP]-The once mighty not p11edict how far the U.S. rose by as much as $11 an ounce.f tdollar plummeted to new lows currency would plunge and some Dollar selling led to more selling, A 901 PoRTAGE AvENUE ' yesterday in one of its worst days said only massive intervention in and at each transaction, the price' souTH BEND. INDIANA 46616 ' amid concern for U.S. economk the form of an International slipped lower. Few wanted to buyf Res (2 191 234-7081 A difficulties. Gold prices soared to Monetary Fund loan could rescue 
dollars.' new highs as a result. the failing dollar. · The U.S. currency lost 2 percent 
• Foreign exchange dealers would 


only $10.00 

203 n. main nowntown So Bend 289-697 
j 
.... 
Tuesday, October 31, 1978 
9

the observer 
Ross directs comm.ittee for women 

by Aileen Lavin Staff Reporter 

Dr. Alberta Ross, professional specialist in the Radiation Labora­tory, is the new chairwoman of the Committee on the Status of the Notre Dame Chapter of the Ameri­can Association of University Pro­fessors, replacing Professor Sophie Korczyk who is on a leave of absence from the University. 
Dr. Ross has been on the professional staff of Notre Dame since 1965. She graduated from Purdue University and Washington 
. University in St. Louis. She . received her doctoral degree from the University of Maryland. 
The Chapter Committee on the Status of Women was activated at . ND in 1970 when women were first 
appointed to the faculty. 
Dr. 'Ross explained, "The pur­pose of the Committee is to insure that the University's policies pro­vide /for an atmosphere where women academics can flourish." 
The Committee deals with the women academics of ND in the areas where the women have expressed dissatisfaction with the 
, I present system. Dr. Ross said, "We have to listen and hear what women are saying." In the past, the Chapter Com­mittee has dealt successfully with a number o{ issues important to the women academics of ND. "Our Committee has been in­terested in the policies for attract­ing women to the faculty and in the promotion of keeping them here," Dr. Ross explained. Committee aiso dealt with the expressed need for a reduced work load appointment to make it ' possible for a person to devote more time to their particular pur­suits. Another major issue handled by the Chapter Committee is design­ing a policy for women to leave for childbearing and allowing them to take time off at the arrival of a child without their chances for tenure as well as their professional growth being affected. During the past year the Com­mittee dealt with the problem of educators who were unemployed due to limited job opportunities at ND where their spouses are em­ployed. The Chapter Committee has proposed that visiting scholar appointments be given to such unemployed academics, offering the facilitieS' of the University to benefit their studies. Presently, the Chapter Com­mittee is interested in retirement beneft,ts for ND women. The Committee seeks to equalize the montly retirement benefits for men and women employed by the University. The reason given .for the benefits of women being less than those of men at this time is because the expected life span for women is longer than that for men. The Committee's goal is to redefine the University's policy on retire­ment benefits for woman to meet their needs. Dr. Ross also said the Committee was trying to provide athletic facilities for women professors which . would be comparable to those provided for the ND men. "The concern of the women has generated some action in this area,"·Dr. Ross said. Dr. Ross emphasized, "One of the main concerns of the Corn­
ND-Navy tickets 
available today 
Tickets for the Notre Dame-Navy· , game will be distributed today at 7 
p.m. in thelobbiesofLaFortune and LeMans. Tickets .will be sold f<>.t $12. Anyone still needing trans~ tation to and from Clevelan4 also should attend this llleeting. :For further information call Chris · 1798 or Roberta 4-1-4489. 
mittee is to be supportive of other mittee are Professors Susan Carter women, especially new women to (Economics), Michael Francis the University who need support (Government and International and encouragement in dt~aling with Studies), Marvin O'Connell (His­their problems." tory), and Kathleen Weigert 
The other members of the Com-(Collegiate Seminar). 
__A.ttention Saint IV/ary's-Students 
1978 Dom49S for sale at 1/2 price Only ss.oo 
Outside SMC Dining Hall Wednesday Nov. 1 4:30-6pm Thursday Nov. 2 4:30-6pm 
limited amount available 

I 
Reg. $9.75 
Now $7.50 
--------------------------J 

Hockey team ties CC in final minute 
(continued from page 12] on to their lead. Their 3-1 first 
Rosenthal was replaced by Laurion 

one CC defenseman back, the period advantage vanished when 
in the nets as CC led 6-5 going into 

Green Bay native had goalie Tom Colorado unloaded 19 shots on Irish 
the final period.

Frame all to himself and he put it goalie Greg Rosenthal. The Tigers · 
Freshman Jeff Logan knotted the 

by him for the lead. After a scored on five of them while Notre 
score at 6-6 two minutes into the

Colorado goal, Poulin scored his Dame could counter with but two 
third, and after Gary Reinking put

first of the night two minutes by freshman defenseman Jim 
the Tigers back on top, Poulin

before the buzzer. Brown and fellow blueliner Fried­
scored his second goal of the night

But the Irish were unable to hold mann. Throu~h no fault of his own, 

to even things up again. Dale Maksymyk and Gary Reic­hart scored within two minutes of 
The Amos Tuck School of Business Administration 
Dartmouth College • Hanover, N.H. 
Men and women seeking EDUCATION FOR MANAGEMENT are invited to discuss the 
TUCK MBA 
with Marilyn Hammond Admissions Representative Tuesday, November 7 Placement Office 
1st drink 1/2 price wilb N.D. or SL MaryS I.D. 
HAllOWEEN 
NJGHT
D'1. Clean Gene's f 2nd llonual
G

S'Ro Te 
sso.oo SQuE
COSH fOR TH~ 8~ST COSTUM~ No Couer Charge free Passes 
~~~-::::.~izes ~-1t.~i'. ··~ ~~ 
J"' 

234-1431 129 NORTH M1CH1GA· ciTREET1 ,' · 1 BLOCK SOUTH OF THE MORf' ;1VIC AUDITORIUM \_..;~ ON RIVEF, BEND PLAZA DOWN IOWN SOUTH BEND 


each other to put the Tigers ahead 
9-7 with six minutes to play, and as 
Colorado fans started singing good­
bye to the Irish, the clock ticked 
down to less than one minute to 
play. But that's when the drama­
tics started. 
In one of the greatest comebacks 
by an Irish hockey team, Poulin 
completed his hat trick and 
Humphreys scored his second goal 
of the night, all within eight 
seconds of each other, to send the 
game into overtime. As the bench 
poured out onto the ice in jubila­
tion, the CC fans sat in silence, 
busily chewing away on their words 


of just one minute ago. 
Michalek and Brownschidle com­

bined to feed Poulin alone in front 41 Moss and Wi 11 i am S. 11 Mother of Ishmae1 
of the net and the Ontario native ACROSS 43 German river 12 Miss Brewer, et al. 
put it by goalie Tom Frame at 19:34 1 -Zone 44 CoiTillonpl ace 13 "110 in the -" 
for his third goal of the night and 6 Daub 46 Twofold 14 Mr. Mclain
11 Food fish 47 "For shame!" 19 Girl 
his fourth of the weekend. Micha-13 Burned 48 Russian plains 22 Height 
lek won the ensuing faceoff and 15 Dye ingredient 50 Prefix for meter 24 Camelot notable 
raced down left wing to feed 16 Washington phone 51 Italian gulf 26 -eyes 
Humphreys out in front and the S-8 (2 wds. l 53 Part of golf 28 Sure thing 
sophomore beat Frame with 18 17 Herd of whales 55 Law 30 Girl's name 
~ 18 Winter wear 56 Assyrians, e.g. 31 Wide's partner seconds Ieft .ora-9 9 score. It was 20 Prison 57 Thrill 33 "Leapin' -!" Michalek's fifth assist of the night, 21 Gibbons 58 Did dangerous 1 34 Having leaves tying the single game record. 23 English novelist work 35 -arts "Tom certainly played an out-24 Ball attire 36 Certain investment standing game for us Saturday 25 1orn places DOWN 37 Very learned
27 Vane direction 38 1
night," said Coach Smith. "Never 28 Mr. Jones · -g ass
1 Appet1zers 39 Boxing blows has such an especially young Notre 29 Verses 2 Food 40 Cleo's craft Dame team come back so well, and 31 Did office work 3 Nothing 42 Furnace leftovers it certainly was encouraging to see 32 New Mexico town 4 "-'s Irish Rose" 44 Copper capital play like that." 33 Miss Cantrell 5 Of the moon 45 -and Penates 
Only an outstanding perfor-34 Lucky chance 6 Extent of view 48 Certain fastener 
36 Deciduous trees 7 Tumblers' needs (2 wds.) mance by Frame in the CC nets 39 French river 8 Building part 49 Blockhead stopped the Irish from sweeping 40 Certain relative, 9 Fatty 52 -standstill their first WCHA opening series .__f_o_r_s_ho_r_t____l_O_Did over 54 Clock dial number ever. Notre Dame blasted nine very encouragmg to us. and Brownschidle all total four ... shots in the 10 minute overtime, The Irish will have that chance assistant coach Ric Schafer is including two point blank shots by when they host defending WCHA looking for students interested in Meredith and Michalek. ·· champion Denver this Friday an<l forming a fan club ... "The Blueline "For a young team we have Saturday at the ACC. Club has offered financial backing established a character for our-SLAP SHOTS: Michalek leads and I just hope the students can selves," noted Smith. "We beat the Irish in scoring with six come up with something this Duluth in exhibition play in over-points ... Poulin is right behind him year," he explained ... all students time and except for a few lapses with five ... Humphreys, with tw01 interested can contact the hockey played well at Colorado. This is all assists also . Saturday, Schneider\ office at 8488. 

~-...... ------.. ------.....~.........~.........-------~~.;.,..,...,...,.~__..................,.._...........~__..;;~-----.......~~.........""""" 
oble,~ 
om~ 
Pizza 

and other Good Things 

CORNER Of GRAPE ROAD & CLEVELAND 
ACROSS FROM THE NEW UNIVERSITY PARK MALL 
Call ahead for taster service or directions 
277-5300 
~-------------------------~----------------,
! $1.00 OFF $1.50 OFF ! ON ANY LARGE ON ANY SIZE DEEP DISH MASTERPIZZA! SI.OLIAN PIZZA! 
ONE COUPON PER ORDER ONE COUPON PER 011011 · 111 1 8
expires 11/15/781 exptres 1 . 5 7 
-------------~---~------------~------------· 
collegiate crossword 
NOTICES 

Typing done in my home. Fast, accurate, reasonable. Close to campus. Phone 
272-7866. 
Planning a wadding or dance? Music for 
that special occasion. The Dennis Bamber Quartet 272-8266. 
Typist will do typing; neat and accurate,
reasonable rates, Call: 287-5162. 
You thing; therefore a place like Pan­dora's must exist Used academic pafcerbacks for aiL H~gy Hours 112 
pr ce sale-every Friday . Behind NO apartments. 233-2342. 
ND-SMC SKI TEAM Meeting 6:30 pm Tuesday Oct 31 Little Theatre LaFortune. Ski Film will be shown. Newcomers welcome. 
TUNE UPS!!! GET YOUR CAR TUNED BEFORE WINTER.!!! CALL 3369. 
$5 prize for the 6 most creative hockeycheers or slogans. Call 8488. 
LOST AND FOUND 

LOST: Na~ Blue "Gerr~ Down" ski 
jacket on S C campus riday before break (Oct 20). If found please call 4-4412. 
-

NEEDED: 2GA tix for Tennessee game.Please call Tim or Joe at 8460. Thanks. 
WANTED: 2 or 4 G A tickets for any home football game. Call Mike 7838. 
Need two GA tickets to Tennessee. Call Tony 6718. 
OVERSEAS JOBS -Summer/full time. Europe, S. America, Australia, Asia, etc. All fields, $500-1200 monthly, expensespaid, sightseeing. Free info.-I,'Vrite: International Job Center, Box 4490-14, Berkeley, CA 94704. 
Desperately need Tennessee tickets. 
Please call 4411 or 5651. 
Desperately need one or two Notre Dame season basketball tix. Call 4-1-4487. 
Full and part-time waitresses needed at Nicola's Italian Restaurant Nice atmos­phere, close to campus,aRood lips. Apply m person between 4: and midnightTuesday through Sunday at 809 N. Michigan. Experience necessary. 
Need riders from Cleveland after the 
NO-Navy game. Leaving Sunday earlyafternoon. Call 4-1-4420. 
Will trade Steve Martin for GA Tennes­see tlx. Call 6970. 
WANTED: Many Tennessee tix. Call 7174 or 272-5267. 
Need 'em now-Tennessee GA tix! Call John 1786. 
I need up to 500 Tennessee tickets, student or GA. Good money, Call1776. 
Big Apple fans need tickets. 2student, 2 GA's. Call Joe 8863. 
Need 4 GA Tennessee tickets. Call Liz­7484. 
Need 6 GA Tennessee -Call Pete 1787. 
Need 4Tennessee GA tickets-Call Mark 8507. 
WANTED: 2 GA tix for Tennessee... Money NO object Call Rick 289-6016. 
Need 5Tennessee GA's. Call Jerry 8446. 
Need 5 GA or Student tix for Tennessee game. Call Tom at 3283. 
Need ride to Cleveland Friday, Nov. 3 after noon. Call 3116. 
FOR SALE 

Casperson's Book Shop open Wed., Sat, Sun. 9-7. 50,000 used books.· Ageneralshop. 1303 Buchanan Road, Niles, 683-2888. 
FOR SALE: GRE Advanced Literature Test review book. Excellent condition. 4-1-4420. 
Color Photographs of N 0 at lowest pricesimaginable. Call Sean 1171. 
FOR SALE: Two large Advent speakersw/walnut cabinets, 8 months old. Perfect condition. $225. Call John at 7687. 
PERSONALS 

0 K Staff -vacation is over. Six weeks to go. Enjoy! 
Althou~h the Manor Bar in Haddenfield was on y visited once b~ the Friday DayEditor, I still hope she ad a good time. Thanks for being so beautiful. 
ONLY ONE SHOPPING DAY LEFT UNTIL ALICE MURPHY'S BIRTHDAY! Gifts, $, Flowers, Candy may be left at LeMans Hall desk. 
NANCY: Happy Birthday to my across the hall buddy. Have a great birthday. 
• 

Tuesday, October 31, 1978 the observer 11 
Booters fall to number one Indiana 
[continued from page 12) Northwestern net, wher1~ Finnegan kick, and Ciuni, Carnevale, and broke for the net and headed the who cleared the zone. outfought the Wildcat defenders to Finnegan also scored for the Irish. ball past Indiana goalie Roger Steve Westbrook boosted get a head on the ball and put it in Number one lndlua defeats Irish Wicker. Indiana's lead at the thirty-two the net. T.he goal seemed to fire up ,the minutes mark, as he converted on a
The Indiana Hoosiers, currently
Roman Klos scored the winning Irish, as they had several scoring pass from Glenn. Angelo Di
ranked the top soccer team in the
goal early in the second overtime chances in the next few minutes, Bernardo then scored on a break­
nation, showed Notre Dame why
period, as he converted on a but couldn't get the ball into the away, and Doerr tallied the final
they deserve their high ranking, as
penalty kick after a Northwestern net. Three straight shots by goal off a cross by DiBernardo.
they defeated the Irish, 7-1, in
hand ball in the penalty area. Finnegan, Lovejoy, and McCurrie Next on the schedule for the Irish
Bloomington on October 22. 
The Irish also won an overtime on goal were stopped, the first two is a game at Valparaiso University
The Irish held off the powerful
game over the University of by Indiana defenders and the last tomorrow at 3 ''-.m. (C.S.T.),
Hoosiers for the first twelve min­
Chicago, coming from behind to hitting the crossbar and bouncing followed by a 1:3,0 p.m. contest at 
utes, keeping Indiana bottled up at
defeat the Maroons at a game held straight out to an Indiana player, Western Michigan this Saturday.
midfield and managing a few shotslast Wednesday at Stagg Field in of their own. But at 12:38, TimChicago. 
Walters converted on a breakawayThe Irish trailed 3-1 in the to score for Indiana. Notre Dame 
Irish storm Hurricanes
second half, their first goal scored fullback Jim Sabitus tried to knockby Carnevale on a chip by Mike a long ball out of the Irish end, but
Mai. [continued from page 12]
the ball hit Walters in the chest,
Finnegan brought the Irish to players who could change the game Miami one-yard line late in the first 
and he used that bounce to get past
within one, heading the ball in on around at any time." half. The string dated back to
Sabitus and put a shot between the 
another fine cross, and then set up Hurricane mentor Saban was Notre Dame's third-game triumph 
a left post and a diving Brian
the tying goal. On direct kick equally as complimentary of the over Purdue... Injured was the
Cullather, the Irish goalie. 
outside the penalty area,. Finnegan opposition. defensive trio of strong safety Jim
The Irish again played good
blasted a hard shot off the wall of "They just had too much equip­Browner (arm muscle,) outside
defense for the next few minutes,
defenders the Maroons had set up ment for us," lamented Saban. linebacker Bobby Leopold
as Cullather made several good
in front on the net. The ball "This is as tough a team as we (sprained ankle) and end John 
saves and the alert Irish defenders
bounded out to Dan McC'urrie, who have played. They're too tough to Handerd (bruised neck muscle).
kicked out a few shots that the Irish
chipped a high shot into the net. control. They have too many They are all questionable for
keeper couldn't handle. 
Finnegan also scored the kids." Saturday's game in Cleveland ... 
Indiana built up a 3-0 lead by
winning goal for the Irish in the ''I thought out defense played Freshman Joe Gramke, who substi­
halftime, however, as Charlie
second overtime period. Klos exceptionally well, but out offense tuted for Hankerd, was in on nine
Fajkus scored on
brought the ball down the left side a rebound after just couldn't do anything. We tried tackle~ against Miami. .. Pete 
Cullather saved on a shot by Steve
of the Chicago zone, lofted a high to throw and they beat us up front. Holohan led Irish receivers Satur­
Doerr, and then Fajkus assisted on
cross in front of the net, and They stuffed us." day with four receptions for, 73 
a goal by Rudy Glenn off a corner
Finnegan used his head to put the If the Irish felt that Miami's yards . . . Saturday was the first 
kick.

ball into the net. defense was that sticky, they'll be game the Irish connected on more
Walters scored his se(·ond goal of
In their easiest game of the in for a real treat this Saturday, as than one field goal this year.
the game with four minutes gone in 
break, the Irish defeated St. Navy's swarming defense has been
the second half. Fajkus broke
Joseph's College, S-0, la:st Tuesday nationally ranked throughout the
down the right side of the Irish
in a game at St. Joe's. '78 season, placing either first or 
zone, forcing Cullather out of the 
Hockey tix
Nick Schneeman opened the second in three different defensive 
net, and passed to Walters in front 
scoring for the Irish, as he took a categories.
of the net for the easy score. Students who have purchasedpass from Joe Ciuni in front of the The Irish finally broke the ice season tickets for hockey and have
net and booted the ball into the net. GAME NOTES: Montana had 
with about twenty minutes expired, not picked them up yet are asked to
Jim Sabitus scored on a penalty thrown 70 consecutive passes with­
as Sabitus chipped a high pass over do so from 8:30 a.rri. to 4:30p.m.
out an interception before Miami's 
Indiana's wall of defenders on a today at the second floor box office 
Rick Valerio picked off a pass at the 
direct kick, and Kevin ·Lovejoy of the ACC. I know you're from Tennessee,
Angelo-
And you l1ke to keep your room messy;Your tastes in music sure vary,You even fall asleep in the library;But I can take this all in pace,Because now you have a l:lean-shaven face! 


INTRODUCING 
Clair,Thanks for making Oct. 1:~ special.Mary 

CAREER 
Steve, Kevin, Eric, Scott, Tim, Or. & Mrs. "0": 

OPPORTUNITIES 
Just thought I'd let you know that youall are the best! Thanx for a great time! Love TRICACO 
$16,000 to $40,000 
R.J. Welcome Back! Hope you had a great 

Chicago: November 17 & 18, 1978. You can meet -and interview with -4 7 hiring
break. Don't get too discouraged -it's 

companies, ali with key engineering, business, and management positions to offer in the
only seven more weeks. 
Chicago area and nation-wide.
Your Auditor 

These companies are, coming to a central location in Chicago for 48 hours only, to find and "Trashed is the word" Hope your 
Sue: 

hire qualified college graduates, including those with degrees in engineering, business, the 
birthday was... 

sciences, and more. And here is how you can meet them.
Barbara and Katie 

If you have ever wanted to know what ours only! And this is your opportunity to can le in the pumpkin of my heart, and I 
Ha~iest of Halloweens, Ac111 You're the 

important jobs are available in your field -take advantage of our unique relationship hpe I'm the "ghoul" of 'fOUr dreams 
then this is your chance. with these companies to learn about ­
[nightmares maybee???[ 

and be offered -these positions. 
love, Yaur Black Cat 

It is called a Lendman Colieg~ Conference, and by sending us just one copy of your IMPORTANT:
FOR SALE: 5000 used elephants, 

resume, you will have the opportunity to This College Conference is completely
ranging from economy to IUJmry models. 

hear from 47 companies about every job FREE, with NO OBLIGATION to you.
Prices ne~otiable. Call Hannibal, 1793. 

they have brought to offer in your field. The companies attending this conference 3for your safari? 
P.S. ASc weitzer, are you still in need of 

pay the entire cost of the program just You will be given the chance to arrange for for the opportunity to meet and hire
LOST: One leg, last seen in the mout of a 

interviews and to talk with as many of qualified students like yourself. You
giant white whale. Generous reward 
these companies as you want. You can need pay only your personal expenses to
offered for its return. Call Cpl. Ahab at 
even talk with the men and women you'd attend the conference.
the NROTC office. 
be working for about the jobs they offer ­THANA STOKES: 
and get valuable, first-hand information Find out how easy it is to get the job you Happy 21st -it's about time you joined 
about the company, working environment, have always wanted. Act now and mail one the ranks of the old people! Are you sure 
and your responsibilities for every job. copy of your resume to the address below. 
you were the treat and not the trick?! 
There is no better way to fully evaluate and In return, you will receive complete
love, Mo and Jeanne 

compare every important position you information about where this conference is should know about in your field. going to be held, hotel accommodations. 
J. Kenneth, 

for out-of-town students, the schedule of
Congrats on your record-breaking 

You can say goodbye to the aggravation of 
the conference, and what you can do to
game. This time the drive was worth it. 

sending out resume after resume. following
Boo Boo 

help make sure you get t~e job you want. 
up with letters and phone calls -all the Carl and Lisa, 
time ,not even knowing if a job exists with 
Send otK copy of your resume,
Thanks for organizing the bus! 
the company you have contacted. 

IN COMN..ETE CONFIDENCE, to:
DC Clubbers Instead, in an easy-to-handle 24 hour Mr. Steven Bath
Kevin M, 

period, you will learn about -and be able Lendman Associates
Like it or not-Happy belated B'day. 

to interview for -all the exciting jobs in John Hancock Center 
n
cp 

your field. You'll even get immediate Suite3020 LENDMAN 
ASSOCIATES
results from your interviews (including Dept.1117 8507. 
Need 4 Tennessee GA tickets. Call Mark 

invitations to visit companies and yes, EVEN 875 N. Michigan Avenue JOB OFFERS!). Chicago, ILL 60611
ATIENTION: All 12 yr. olds, perverts, I druggies, and people whoso sheets stand 

But please note: the majority of these Or call collect (312) 337-4300 Monday
on their own: This is to announce the 

openings cannot be found advertised in through Friday, 8:30AM to 6:00 PM, for
expansion of "Bobo" Jarzynka's and "Pinky" Barthel's Operation, a proud 

any other source. These unlisted positions complete information. tradition at Notre Dame for over 3rars. 
are filled through professional contacts like Call today.They specialize In drugs, SMU , and assorted paraphenalia. For Info and-or "services" ask for Bobo or Pinky and don't ask how they got their names, it's disgusting. 1398. 


Notre Dame wins 20-0 
Irish defense records first shutout 

Vagas Ferguson [32] was for the Irish Saturday with 84 yards and two touchdowns. [Photo by Mark Ricca]. ' 
B-ball ticket pick-up 
Basketball season tickets will be students from the same class distributed to Notre Dame and wishing to sit together should Saint Mary's students this week at report to the ACC together. No the second floor box office of the student may present more than two ACC. IDs. 
Students from each class may Freshmen and Saint Mary's stu­collect the tickets anytime between dents have been assigned seats to 
8:30 a.m. and 4:30 p.m. on their one of two horne game packages. assigned day, according to a Ticket This splitting of the schedule was Committee announcement. necessary to accomodate the 1284 
The distribution schedule is as freshmen requests for tickets after 
follows: Notre Dame's strong finish in the Seniors-today NCAA tournament last year. Juniors, Graduate and Law Five. thousand tickets are set 
students -tomorrow aside each year for ND-SMC stu-Sophomores -Thursday d~nts. This year, according to Freshmen -Friday Ttcket Manager Michael Busick, 
Tickets for upperclassmen and student demand for tickets was graduate students have not been greater than usual. assigned to specific seats, so 
by Paul Mullaney first three second-half possessions. came from three yards out. 
Assistant Sports Editor Junior tailback Vagas Ferguson "We had to get the blocking 
scored both of Notre Dame's two today," stressed Ferguson, who 
touchdowns, and senior walk-on gave a share of the credit for both 
Combining a stalwart defensive Chuck Male booted field goals of touchdowns to his blocking bud­
effort with a consistent offensive 47 and 37 yards to take care of all dies. "The line did really well, just attack, Notre Dame notched its the scoring. as it has been doing all year." fifth straight win, a 20-0 verdict Two of Miami's four turnovers Ferguson also lauded the efforts over Miami of Florida, Saturday at were instrumental in Irish scores. of freshman fullback Pete Bucha­Notre Dame Stadium. The first Heimkreiter jarred the ball loose nan, who carried only once for five shutout for the Irish this season., from Hurricane tight end Mark yards, but sprung some key runs the win boosted Notre Dame'~ Cooper after a seven-yard recep­with strong blocks. record to 5-2. tion, and Golic pounced on the "He was. blocking on both touch­
While the Irish rolled up 390 pigskin to give the Green and Gold down runs," pinpointed Ferguson, total offensive yards, they held the possession at the visiton' . ··. whose 589-yard season rushing Hurricanes to 123, including only Keeping the ball on the gwund. total is only one behind co-captain 18 yards passing. Miami's career Notre Dame jumped out to an early Heavens. "Pete is a super rushing leader, Ortis Anderson, second quarter lead as Ferguson blocker as well as a good runner." was virtually the only visible sign of slanted over right tackle for the A 29-yard punt return by Dave 
a Hurricane offense, gaining 73 four-yard score moments later. Waymer gave the Irish the ball at yards in 16 carries. Golic, the defensive captain and the Miami 24 on the next ND 
Led by linebackers Steve Heim­signal caller, knocked the ball from possession at the outset of the final kreiter and Bob Golic, the Irish Miami quarterback Kenny McMil­stanza. Temporarily stifled by the point-prevention squad had its best lian on the Hurricanes' drive which Hurricane defense, Male came in performance of the campaign. A opened the second half. Safety Joe and kicked a 37-yarder to wrap up frustrated Miami offense was un­Restic recovered for the Irish on the the scoring. able to enter Irish territory until the ND 43-yard line. Despite the ease by which it 
second half, and even then could Notre Dame, largely on a 22-yard appeared the Irish won, the victors 
only get as far as the Notre Dame pass from Joe Montana to Fergu­were more than complimentary of 30-yard line after a penalty on the son, moved to the Miami 30, where their opposition. Hurricanes' final possession of the Male was called upon for his "I still feel Miami is on their 
day. three-point effort. The senior way," said Irish coach Dan Devine. 
"Coach (Joe) Yonto brought it up sidewinder, who had missed a "They've got some real good at the beginning of the game," 45-yard effort on the game's initial players and are by far the most noted Golic about the Irish not series, split the uprights from 47 disciplined Miami team I've having a shutout prior to Saturday. ya:-ds out, giving the Irish a coached against. "We all looked at each other and 10-point lead. "They play a very sticky, well­said,'hey.' It's not something you The Irish thwarted Miami on the coached game. They really stick you necessarily strive for, but it's Hurricanes' subsequent posses­on defense. They were hitting as 
something you always keep in the sion, forcing Rob Rajsich to boot hard on the last play as they were back of your mind.'' -one of his nine punts for the on the first." Although the Irish had great afternoon. Taking over at their Golic echoed Devine's feelings. success containing Miami, the own 38, the Irish marched 62 yards "Even if Miami's record was 3-3 
Hurricanes, now 3-4 under coach in 11 plays, mostly on the running they had real good ball players," Lou Saban, were no pushover. of Ferguson and Jerome Heavens. he said. "They're the kind of Despite a substantial statistical Ferguson's second paydirt jaunt [continued on page 11]
difference, the Irish took only a 7-0 lead into the locker room at the half. Things changed, however, as Notre Dame scored on each of its 

Soccer team downs Dayton 
by MaJ'k Perry forced to swat the ball out of the net Dayton defense, and from ten Assistant Sports Editor with his hands, giving Dayton the yards away from the left corner penalty kick. Pett beat Cullather to drilled a shot between the post and The Notre Dame soccer team the right side ofthe net on the kick. Dave Zawaski, Dayton's second saved their best game over break Eight minutes later the Irish tied half goaltender, to give the Irish 
for last, as they defeated the the score, as Terry Finnegan the lead. 
Dayton Flyers, 2-l, in a game outfought several Dayton defen­Notre Dame kept the Flyers off 
Sunday at Cartier Field. The win ders to the ball after a throw-in, the scoreboard for the rest of the game, as their solid offensive
upper the Irish record to 18-2-1, and worked the ball to Kevin 
including a four and one record Lovejoy in front of the net. Lovejoy pressure kept Dayton bottled up for immediately took the shot, which most of the second half. Cullather
over the break. The Irish controlled the game skidded under Dayton keeper Mike stopped Dayton's best scoring 
chance, as he dove to his right to

throughout, as the final score is no Beehler into the net. Lovejoy now 
block a bounding shot by Dave

indication of Notre Danfe's offen­has 27 goals, leading the Notre Dame team. Wetmore midway through thesive efforts. The Irish had many 
scoring opportunities, but could Notre Dame had sever~ fine second period. 
only put two balls into the net. plays later in the first hail, but 
Irish down Northwestern, 

Dayton jumped out first, how­most of their shots were wide of the 
Chicago In 0.T. 

ever, as Jerry Pett scored on a net. Finally with only 4:02 expired The Irish were bombarding thepenalty kick for the Flyers. Pett in the second half, Finnegan took Two breakway goals early in the Northwestern goal far most of the Finnegan tied the score a few 
broke past the Irish defense, charge to score the winning goal. first half gave Northwestern a 2-0 game, but the Wildcat keeper minutes later. Jim Sabitus brought forcing Notre Dame goalie Brian The Irish forward, who is second in halftime lead against the Irish in seemed to be in the right place the ball down the center of the
Evanston last Thursday. But the

Cullather out of the net, then scoring behind Lovejoy with 23 
most of the time. field, chipped high in front of the 
chipped a shot high towards the goals, took the ball on the left Irish came back in the second half Lovejoy finally broke the ice 
net. Irish fullback Jim Rice was sideline, dribbled the ball past the to tie the score, and wftGt tm to [continued on page 11] 
leers on top of WCHA East 
by Brian Beglane Saturday's marathon, while one Rothstein, Dave Poulin and Jeff 
Sports Writer saw action both nights in the nets Perry made it 4-2, when Rothstein to help the Irish come out of the notched the first goal of his WCHA weekend on top of the WCHA East career. 
Colorado Springs, Colo. -A team division with three points. • Poulin scored what proved to be that young is not supposed to score Frlday-Laurlon's debut a success the game winner with his first tally 14 goals in its first series. Rookie goalie Dave Laurion got at 17:57 just as a Tiger penalty 
But it did. the nod for Friday night's season expired. The Irish let their three 
A team that young is not opener, and the native of Interna­goal' cushion trickle to one with supposed to have the composure to tiona! Falls, Minn., played outstan­seven minutes to play but held on score two goals in eight seconds in dingly in his debut. He made 30 to win. the final 30 seconds of play to send saves in holding the Tiger offense "Dave (Laurion) played an out­the game into overtime. to four goals, one of which carne on standing game in goal for us," said 
But it did. a power play. Smith. "We played well for two 
And a freshman is not supposed Senior captain Steve Schneider periods and let up a bit in the third to be the leading goal scorer after got Notre Dame on the scoreboard but I thought we did a good job in just his first two WCHA games. first with a power play goal at 3:17 holding on to win." 
But he is. of the first period off assists from The only event to mar the game 
Thus did Lefty Smith and the Jeff Brownschidle and Greg Mere­was a shoulder injury to Scott Notre Dame hockey team pass their dith. Meredith increased the Cameron. The 6-3 sophomore first test of the WCHA season advantage to 2-0 with a tally two suffered a partial separation and is against Colorado College this past minutes later thanks to a picture­not expected to play this weekend. weekend, beating the Tigers 5-4 in perfect pass from Ted Weltzin. Saturday. • Never say die the opener and tying the second After a CC goal evened things up The Irish got off to an identical 


game in spectacular fashion 9-9. 43 seconds into the second period, 2-0 first period lead Saturday when 
• For a team that skated with the Irish struck back with three Meredith scored his second goal of seven freshmen, this weekend has straight. Torn Michalek put it by the series at 3:33. Then with
·-...•<• 

Kevin Humphreys scored two goals against Colorado College to have been an encouraging sign. Tiger goalie Scott Owens at the defenseman John Friedmann off Saturday, including ~ dramatic tying goal with only 18 seconds left Four of them .scored, with one of 2:52 mark and three minutes later -for holding, sophomore Kevin in the game. [Photo by Doug Christian] them notching a hat trick in~' the "Fresh Connection" line of Bill [continued on page 10] 





