Cardinals fail to elect pope 
VATICAN CITY [AP] -Black smoke billowing into the night from the chimney atop the Sistine Chapel signaled to the world yesterday that the cardinals of the Roman Catholic Church failed to elect a successor to Pope John Paul I on the first day of voting in their secret conclave. 
The 111 cardinal-elettors begin a second day of voting today with two ballots scheduled for the morning and, if no pope is elected, two more in the afternoon. 
A few seconds after the black smoke began puffing out of the chimney yesterday evening, it turned gray, but Vatican radio said the signal was black. The cardinals also had sent black smoke up the chimney after yesterday's morning session. 
Although there was no official explanation for the four inconclusive ballots, it appeared the coalition ofconservative and progressive cardinals that during the last conclave found a mutually acceptable candidate in Cardinal Albino Luciani of Venice, the future Pope John Paul, did not form around a single cardinal this time. 
Vatican analysts said Luciani attracted both conservatice and progressive cardinals because of his pastoral simplicity. 
Huddle to undergo changes 
· by Mark Perry Staff Reporter 
A delicatessen, a "country store," and a new ice cream parlor are some of the new features which will be introduced at the Huddle after Christmas break, according to Jim Thalacker, Huddle manager. 
The Huddle, Notre Dame's ver­sion of the fast food restaurant, will undergo a substantial renovation during the break, according to Thalacker and his assistant, Dan Pichler. "In the area currently used for dining," Thalacker said, "a deli, featuring sandwiches, cheeses, cold cuts, and bakery items, and 'country store,· offering 
grocery  items,  will  be  con­ 
structed."  
"The fast  food  and  ice  cream  

area," Thalacker continued, "will be remodeled to use about half of its current space the remainder of the area to be converted into an ice cream parlor, complete with tables and chairs." In addition to these changes, Thalacker said that the menu of the fast food area is being revised to include a hot breakfast and featured food items. 
Although selections in the deli, ice cream, and fast food areas have been made, Pichler said that the Huddle is conducting a marketing survey to determine the needs of the on-campus students, and those needs will be featured at the "country store." "Food service representatives will be meeting with students this week in the various halls,'' Pichler said. 
•'The general subject of these meetings will be items to be sold at the store," he continued. "our interviewers will encourage stu­dents to contribute their prefer­ences for item type, size, brand name, and other related goods." 
Pichler added that the categories to be covered in these interviews will include snack items, bever­ages, dairy products, toiletries, paper goods, and counter medi­cines. He also said that other suggestions will be welcomed. 
"We will have a lot of empty shelves," Thalacker added, "and we have to find ways to fill them up." 

Interviews will begin tonight, and each hall has a time scheduled for them. Pichler said that students are not required to come at their scheduled time, but should check with other halls to find out where their meeting is being held. Pichler said that signs should be posted to let students know which .of the two halls scheduled for each time will be hosting the meeting, and its location. He added that St. Mary's will also be surveyed on Tuesday at 7:30 in LeMans 
With little difference 
McKenna outlines budget 
by Kevin Richardson Senior Staff Reporter 
Student Body President Andy 
McKenna outlined this year's Stu­
dent Government Budget last night 

and termed it "not too much differenfthan last year's." 
In detailing the budget, 
McKenna said that the Student 
Government sponsored Third 
World Conference constitutes "one 
of the most important items in the 
budget." The budget allocates 
$3200 to the conference, and 
McKenna said conference costs can be broken down into three major categories. 
''The costs allow for speakers, publications and administrative expenses," he staten. The major expense within the third world conference budget is "the publica­tion of a booklet describing the conference arid the events other schools use to promote third world awareness,'' McKenna said. 
Along with the conference, McKenna said the budget allows for course evaluation booklets to be printed this year. "We will have an evaluation booklet for each 


The band performed during the Pep Rally held Friday night in Stepan Center. [Photo by Cate McGuiness]. 
semester with the first one being ready for second semester pre­registration," he said. 
The entire Student Government budget totals $23,575 and repre­sents a 3.8 percent increase from last year's budget. The money is allocated to Student Government by the Board of Commissioners which is comprised of McKenna, Student Body Vice-President Mike Roohan, Hall Presidents Council chairman Chuck DelGrande, HPC representative member Dan Darfler and Student Union Director Bill Roche. 

The Irish Guard were allowed to exhibit percussive as well as marching and dancing talents at halftime of Saturday's game. [Photo by Cate McGuiness]. 


Campbell explains Mideast 
by Gregory Solman 

The map behind him unfolded slowly and silently, revealing al­most everything but the blood that has been shed in the countless epic conflicts and wars that have con­sumed the area and made it one of the greatest regions of turmoil in the world. 
The map was of the Mideast, and the man that strode to the podium to endeavor to explain it, was John 
C. Campbell, currently director of studies at the Council on Foreign Relations and a former region specialist in the State Department from 1942-1945. 
His speech pattern is slightly indicitive of his lenghtly stay in Cambridge, MA; it is as if he is .composing a mental essay with every sentence structured. His grooming could be aptly described as "disheveled elegance," and most readily betrays his Harvard origins. And despite his recently­concluded three day lecture sereies dealing mostly with what he would term "historical antecedents," his perspective on the present Mideast situation is also that of an expert-­of a former member of the "foreign policy elite." 
His impressions on Camp David are generally optimistic, ''On the Egyptian-Israeli agreement, th~re 
doesn't appear to be any maJor stumbling blocks, except one." Sadat may feel, explained Camp­bell, that if he is under attack day by day by the other Arab states due to the prospect of making a separate peace, that he may have to "link" the Egyptian-Israeli treaty with progresses made on the West Bank and Gaza Strip. 
"I think that from a political standpoint," Campbell postulat­ed, "it is perhaps necessary to have something moe than a 'lack of progress' on the West Bank in order for Sadat to go ahead and negotiate and sign a separate peace with Israel." 
''There is not much question that this agreement couldn't have been achieved without President Carter's involvement," Campbell remarked, though he gave much of the credit to the power of the President's office. Aside from that, Campbell said he felt that the President "did do a remarkable job of persuasion and diplomatic con­duct," in order to "get people to make concessions that they other­wise wouldn't have been able to make." 
Campbell called the summit a "turning point" in that it repre­sents the first major committment to a peace treaty, and that it was former Secretary of State Henry Kissinger that "made the original breakthroughs." 
"Evef' if the agreement doesn't come off," Campbell assented, "It is still a point of history in the sense that thirty years after the estab-· lishment of the State of Israel, the main Arab State has said it will sign a peace treaty with it." 
Campbell maintained that the summit was anything but a predic­table event. What had happened, he reasoned, was that in the year following ·his trip to Jerusalem, Sadat's plan to initiate peace had "fizzled out"--failed, partly 
[continued on page 3] 

~onday, Ckiober16, 1978
the observer 

News Briefs--------~ 

t============================ National 
Vreious murders girlfriend 
NEW YORK-Sid Vicious, 21, who played bass guitar for the defunct Sex Pistols, appeared to be suffering from drug deprivation at his arraignment Friday when he was formally charged with second­degree murder in the death of Nancy Laura Spungen, 20. Vicious and Spungen, who had been acting as his manager, had been living since August at the Chelsea Hotel, a haven of artists and show business celebrities. She was registered as his wife. Spungen was found dead Thursday on the bathroom floor of the suite. She was in black lace underwear and had been stabbed once in the midsection, according to police, who said they went to the hotel in response to a call from Vicious. 


Winter to offer no reprieve 
DUBUN, N.H.-Don't be fooled bv a mild November and forget to get out your long woolies: it'sgoingto be a long, cold winter, warns Abe Weatherwise, the crusty meteorological soothsayer of the Old Farmer's Almanac. In the 187th edition of the nation's oldest continuing publication, Abe cautions that despite a mild beginning, the coming winter will offer no reprieve from its bone-chilling predecessors of recent years. 

Woman takes 'ad at word' 
UNION LAKE, Mlcb.-Sheila Flones is 5180 richer simply because she took a bank advertisement at its word. Flones, of Union Lake, saw a Michigan National Bank newspaper ad last month which offered SS cash to anyone who brought in an attached coupon and opened a regular passbook savings account at one of its banks. Flones, armed with all the coupons she could clip, opened 36 new accounts· each with a $1 deposit. The bank corrected its ads, which now bear a statement limiting the SS freebie to one-to-a-customer. 

Weather 
Goudy and cold today and tonight. A 30 percent chance of light rain or rain nad snow mixed today. Highs today in the low 40s. Lows tonight in the upper 20s to low 30s. Becoming sunny tomorrow with highs in the low to mid 50s. 

On Campus Today_~ 
3:30pm 
4 pm 
4:15pm 
5:30pm 
7 pm 
7 pm 
7 pm 
9 pm 
10:30 pm 
11 pm 
midnight 
lecture, "health crusades and tropical diseases," dr. 
thomas weller, 278 galvin 
talk, "austrian national holiday," prof. ·lanzinger, 
lib. special collections rm. 
lecture, "the situation in northerm ireland," prof. 
sean goldman, sponsored by amnesty international 
for prisoner of. conscience week, Ia fortune theatre 
meeting, french club, faculty dining room, south 
dining hall 
tape, urban plunge workshop, 700 lib. 
workshop, "work values and decision making," dr. 
kathleen rice, holy cross parlor 
film, "funfzig jahre linsere geschichte," ("fifty 
years of our history"), sponsored by nd german 
club, Ia fortune theatre 
informal discussion, dr. kathleen tillman, asst. prof. of general program, 339 zahm hall 
mass, fr. robert griffin, c.s.c., grotto 
discussion, "more sex at notre dame," hosted by 
e.j. eldridge, wsnd-am 640 
wsnd album hour, "52nd street," billy joel, am 640 . 


Lay School to hold conference 
The Center for Constitutional Studies of the Notre Dame Lay School will sponsor its first annual conference on "Legal Problems in Higher Education" on Oct. 17 and 18. 
Philip R. Moots, director of Notre Dame's Center for Constitu­tional studies, explained that there was a necessity for the conference because "independent higher edu­cation is more and more vulnerable to litigation uncommon a decade ago." 
Moots pointed out that although the increased legislative concem for the legal rights of employees and consumers is well intended, the compliance cost and accom­panying administrative regulation pose a serious threat to private 
Auditions to continue for 'All Over' 

Auditions for the Notre Dame­Saint Mary's theatre production of "All Over", by Edward Albee, will continue tonight at 7 p.m. in O'Laughlin Auditorium at Saint Mary's. 
Call backs will be tomorrow at 7 
p.m. Auditions are open to all ND-SMC students. Preparation is advised, and audition material may be obtained at · the Speech and Drama office, Room HO Moreau Hall (SMC), 4141. 
*The Observer 
Night Editor: Scoop Sullivan (of 9.11 club fame) Asst. Night Editor: Jim Rudd layout Staff: None! Where were you guys!??! Editorial layout: Miss Margie Brassil Sports layout: Paul Mullaney Typists: Lisa DiValerio, Mary McCauley, me Night Controller: Katie Brehl Day Editor: Katie Kilkuskie Copy Reader: Mark Rust Ad layout: Renee Leuchten Photographer: Cate McGuiness Paper of~ Week-Scoop & Co. 
The Observer Is published Mon­day through Friday except during exam and vacation perlot:b. The Observer Is published by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $20 per year (51 o per semester) from The­Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, lndlena 46556. Second class postage peld, Notre Dame, Indiana, 46556. . The Observer IJ • member of the Associated Press. All repro­
duction rights are reserved. 
; 
t-3 
~ ~ 
higher education. 

"There is a real need today for legal research and advocacy to assert and protect the integrity and autonomy of independent colleges and universities," Moots said. 
The Center for Constitutional Studies was founded at the Univer­sity in 1977. The center seeks to assert and protect the integrtiy and autonomy of independent colleges and universities through fostering a greater awareness of the com­plexity of the legal problems such institutions have only recently face. 
"Everybody ought to know the rules of the road," says Motts, He said that college administrators must be made aware of their legal responsibilities and the limitations government regulators can place on independent colleges and uni­versities. 
The conference will bring the administrators and the legal coun­sel of independent colleges and universities together with persons or experience and expertise in many areas of legal responsibilities independent colleges and universi­ties are facing. 
Issues that will be addressed at the conference include affirmative action, physical access and aca­demic program access for the handicapped and students' rights and student dicipline. 
Moots hopes the conference will yield "a greater understanding of the complexity of the legal problems and hopefully some solu­tions." 


...... E...... I T.......UIOII hdllllfl • '-0 ................ 47541 • 112......., 
I!< ~ 
MISSOURI, OHIO, TENNESSEE, WEST VIIJGINIA, WISCONSIN 

... ~' l l,. . 
SHAKEY'S 
SUPER SUPPER
FAMOUS 
r-7:30 MON -TUES -WED Pizza-Chicken· 
$2.40

·Spaghetti-Salad All You Can Eat 
PREPARE FOR: 
MCAT·OAT· LSAT•GMAT PCATe GRE•OCAT·VAT· SAT 1MB I, II, Ill·ECFMG e FLEX· VQE 
NAT'L DENTAL BOARDS e NURSING BOARDS Flexible Progrema & Hours 
Visit Our Centers & See For Yourself Why We Make The Difference 
LSAT, GRE, GMAT~~-H. Classes MPUIN 
EDUCATIOHAL CENTER 

0 TEST PREPARATION 
now form1ng 
SPECIALISTS SINCE 1938 

call 291-3150 
Sales -Production Management Position~ Throughout the Midwest 



WSPEL.:.t~ 

ENGINES &TRANSMISSIONS 
Recruiter will be on campus Oc­
tober 25th See Placement Office for 
times and additional information 
--.----.. 
l 


Scholars open colloquiuin 
by Ray McGrath discussions presenting the re­
Staff Reporter search of the participating educa­
tors, historians, and anthropolo­
Noted national and international gists. 
scholars gathered at· the Morris Inn Speakers include Luis Monguio, 
for a banquet yesterday night to professor emeritus at the Univer­
mark the opening of an Interna­sity of California at Berkeley, 
tional Colloquium entitled "The Ernesto Mejia-Sanchez of the Uni­
Defense of Latin American Indian versidad Nacional Autonoma De 
Cultures and its Present Projec­Mexico, and Jose Durand, also 
tions." The colloquium will con­from the University of California 
tinue through Tuesday. (Berkley). 
The focal point of the three day Professor Monguio is also the 
meeting is a series of lectures and Honorary President of the Collo-
Campbell explains Mideast 
[continued from page 1] 
because of the Israeli's "sticki­
ness" and partly because Sadat 
himself somehow felt that he had a 
responsibility to put forth the entire 
Arab position . 
"Most of the observers, and a 
good many of the participants, 
were surprised that they came out 
with an agreement," Campbell 
surmised. "It was a last despara­
tion effort to save something from 
the great step which Sadat had 
taken by being willing to negotiate 
directly with Israel." 
"They were really surprised that 
they did as well as they did," 
admitted Campbell, "and the rea­
son is that nobody dared face the 
possibility of a failure because 
there was no where to go if they 
failed." 
At this point, Israeli sources 
continue •to insist that, inconflict 
with President Carter's version of 
the events, their version of the 
"freeze" on Israeli settlements on 
theEastBank is extremely limited; 
that the American version of the 
Camp David talks is that Israel 
would suspend action on any new 
settlements during the indefinite 
period required for negotiations 
over a self-governing authority on 
the West Bank. 
Campbell's reaction to this pos­
sible "stumbling block" was that 
the "freeze" doesn't pose many 
problems, and that a person "can 
take a choice on who to believe, 
although what carter has said is 
what makes sense in the context of 
the whole settlement." Camp­
bell's inclination is that Begin was, 
in bringing up this point, only 
trying to maintain an acceptable 
position at home and with the 
Knesset. "He (Begin) was explain­
ing the agreement in terms that 
would make it more palatable to the . strong nationalists in Israel." Another problem that presented itself after that talks is that the 
Meyer to deliver 
Reilly Lectures· 
I 
Thomas J. Meyer, professor of 
chemistry at the University of 
North Carolina at Chapel Hill, will 
deliver three Peter C. Reilly Lec­
tures tonight, Wednesday and 
Friday. 
The lectures are open to the 
public and will be held at 4:30 p.m. 
in Nieuwland Science Hall, Room 
123. Meyer will discuss "Design and Synthesis of Mixed-Valence Compounds" today; "Optical and Thermal Electron Transfer in Metal Complexes" on Wednesday; and "Transition Metal Complexes as Thermal and Photochemical Redox Catalysts" on Friday. 
The Reilly lecture series honors· the memory of the late Indianapolis industrialist Peter C. Reilly and is sponsored by the department of chemistry. 
Glee Club to sing 
at Grotto Mass 
There will be a Mass at the Grotto tonight at 10:30. The Glee Club will be in attendance for the 
·'lituriY's lhtisiC.:··· · •• • --.·.--·.-••. ­

Arabs seem to share a conviction that when it comes to the issue of the Israeli-occupied West Bank of the Jordan River, the Camp David agreements amount to little more than camouflage for the Israeli plan of West Bank autonomy, which has already been rejected. When presented with this problem, Campbell was unwilling to concede that it was a valid point. 
"I don't think that is a fair characterization of what was actu­ally agreed," he remarked. "That indicates that the Israeli's made no real concessions--although, I real­ize that this is being said." 
Campbell outlined a number ot points in which the Camp David agreed-upon proposals on the West Bank go much furhter than the ~sraeli proposals. First, he pointed out, they do envisage a negotiation of the determination of the status of the territory again in three years, so that representatives of Pales­tine, Israel, Jordan and Egypt can negotiate the final status of the territory. 
''There are provisions for the nature of the Palestinian autono­mous body, which will presumably govern the West Bank and Gaza Strip," Campbell stressed, "which are not the same as Begin proposed in his plan." 
With respect to Israeli armed forces, Campbell termed the Camp David plan "much more specific." 
"The Begin Plan merely indicat­ed that the Israeli armed forces were going to stay and, so far as the Arabs are concerned, all that they could say was that there was no basic change." 
Under terms of the Camp David agreement it is agreed that some of the forces will go back into Israel, and some of them would be withdrawn into specific areas, Campbell maintains . 
When posed with the possibility that Jordan may continue to "straddle the fence," Campbell commented that he felt the United States "may have overestimated their ability" to bring along King Hussein of Jordan "into whatever arrangements we decide to enter." 
"Palistinian Nationalism is such a factor to Hussein," Campbell pointed out, "it might even be termed a threat. He might even be assasinated. He's thinking some­what of his exposed position, and despite the fact that he is a courageous man, he would prefer to wait." 
[continued on page 5] 

Psychology Club 
to elect officers 
The Notre Dame Psychology 
Club will hold an election for 
1978-79 officers today. 
All on-campus psychology 
majors are asked to return their 
ballots to room 114 Haggar Hall. 
Off-campus psychology majors are 
asked to pick up their ballots today 
in room 114 and vote there. Ballots 
should include the voter's name 
and ID number and must be 
returned by 5 p.m. today. 
Results of the election will be 
announced at the second organiza­
tional meeting on Wednesday, at 7 
p.m. in room 119 Haggar Hall. Future plans for the club will also be announced then. For further information contact Sheila Triplett, 
"6743:' _·.•, ..•••• --· ••••• -.• _-_ .-••,-_ 

Department of Modern and 
Classical Languages, in describing 
the purpose of the colloquium, 
stated that the participants have 
gathered to "investigate into the 
plight· and development of .the 
Indian cultures of Central and 
South America.'' 
Speakers will address the politi­
cal and cultural backgrounds of the 
Indians and Europeans, and the 
opinions they held of one another. 
Indian progression and repression 
under the Spanish Crown rule will 
also be a main topic of inquiry. 
The colloquium is sponsored jointly by the Department of Mod­ern and Classical Languages, the Center for Civil Rights, and the Latin American Center. 
All members of the University community are invited to attend the session, which will be held in Room 210-214 of the Center for Continu­ing Education. Session times are 9 
a.m. until noon and from 8 p.m. until 10 p.m. today, and 9 a.m. until noon and 2 p.m. until 4 p.m. on Tuesday. 
Philadelphia Club 
to meet in Lewis 
There will be a meeting of the Philadelphia Club in the basement game room of Lewis Hall today at 
7:30 p.m. Dues will be collected from those interested in joining the club. Also, those interested in signing up for the Christmas flight can sign up at the meeting. 
THE CooPERATIVE DEPARTMENT oF SPEECH AND DRAMA 
NoTRE DAME, INDIANA 46556 

(NON CREDIT} COonce cpltacticum October 14th-December 1st 
Courses: lOlA Jntro to Modern Dance, Fri. 4:15-5:15 101 B lntro to Jazz and Theatre Dance, Wed 4:15-5:15 lOlC Classical Ballet (Intermediate}, Mon 4:15-5:15 Classes start week of October 16th 
-CHILDREN'S BALLET CLASSES­Open to ND-SMC Faculty and Staff Children Courses: BalletI-9:00-10:00 ages 7 to 11 with no previous training Ballet II -10:15-11:15, Ages 8 to 12 with one year prior training Place: Regina Hall, Basement StaQe Fee: $25 perstudent 
payable at St. Mary's Business Office, Questions? Call -272-0218, Debra Sedore 


P.O.BoxQ·= 
One instance not an excuse 
Dear Editor: 
I am responding to a most ignorant letter written by Chris­topher A. Stewart entitled "Zhi­vago: Nyet." Although Mr. Stewart focused his attention on missing a movie, his letter con­tained obvious irrelevancies. Clear­ly, he singled out one instance as an excuse to expound on his overall frustrations. Surely such feelings, exemplified by phrases as "SMC poopsies" and "psuedo-dilet­tants" are not the result of missing a single event. Many SMC students have been denied admis­sion to movies· at Notre Dame. Nevertheless, their disappointment did not have such a devastating impact on their view of the general Notre Dame community. 
Furthermore, Mr. Stewart's refer­ences to ·'irresponsible planning" arc definitely unfounded. First, Or. Zhivago was featured as a part of the Oktobcrfest activities and was not intended as the single <;ocial event of the weekend. Therefore, to feature a movie along with the traditional beer garden festivities on Friday evening would have been financially impractical. In addition, in light of Mr. Stewart's alleged kmowledge of this "classic film" it is odd that he failed to realize the unfeasibility of showing a four-hour movie more than once in an evening. 
Hopefully, Mr. Stewart, the indi­gestion that occurred from your "dinner at SMC" will not recur when you sit down , to eat your words. 
Marie T. Bradley 
Letter animosities reflects 
Dear Editor: 
In responding to Christopher Stewart's letter of Oct. 12 concern­ing the showing of Dr. Zhivago at SMC, I find it difficult to remain level-headed. However, since an irrational response to an irrational 

.. letter is ineffective, I will try to refrain. 
I personally had nothing to do with the showing of this film. However, I did attend the Saturday showing, as did Mr. Stewart. First of all, the facts are that I got to Carroll Hall right at 8:30 and got a seat, so he could not have been turned away early-as he had said. 
The reason I address this letter to the ND/SMC community rather than to Christopher Stewart is that I feel he was making a statement to our comr.onnitv about Saint Mary's 

rather than a simple request for 
more showtimes. Disagree?? 
Read his letter again; it is self· 
explanatory. And I certainly do not' 
want to launch into the various 
social animosities between ND and 
SMC that are reflected in his letter. 
The name calling and insinuations 
were totally unnecessary and I feel 
that an apology to the Oktoberfest 
committee, to the ushers, and to 
the SMC community is in order. 
Susan M. aaus 
Help! Help! 

Dear l:ditor: 
Help! Help! I want you to 
consider during the break the 
possibility of The Observer's pub­
lishing after the break my essay 
"Autumn Wonderland" which the 
Scholastic (October 6, 1978) 
"edited the very life and substance 
out of." You see, dear editor, I 
think that it is a terrible fissure in 
Notre Dame's autumn 1978 being 
that this essay has not been 
published intact (fissure is a good 
word here -I would have said 
'gaping hole,' only I feared that 
some of our star halfbacks would 
run through it and never come 
back). Please publish this letter ­
so that the whole Notre Dame 
community will know what you are 
considering during the break. 
Joseph W. Evans 

Funny 
'Confessions' 

Dear Editor: 
Marcia McBrien's "Confessions" in the Observer were very funny, and especially her reminiscences of teachers who were IHM nuns. She ob~>erved that the nuns' teaching was more effective than that of the laymen, whose transcripts con­tained courses like "Psychology of Nosebleeds." Marcia is more accurate about the difference in quality than she might think. In real life, many nuns of the IHM order received graduate degrees from Notre Dame. They preferred ND to Daisy Chain U because they were invited and welcomed by a former student of theirs. He too must have found nuns like Sister Rocka Gilbralta hard to forget, even though he has been president of Notre Dame for 26 years. 
Jim Jordan 

*The Observer 
an independent newspaper serving Box Q the notre dame and saint mary's Notre Dame community Ind. 46556 
The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Colleg_e It does not necessarily reflect the pol1cies of the administration of either institution The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board Commentaries, opmions and letters are the v1ews of the1r authors Column space is available to all members of the commun1ty, and the free expression of varying op1neons on campus, through letters, is encouraged 
EDITORIAL BOARD 
Tony Pace Editor-in-Chief Stt-ve Odland Managmg Editor John Calcutt" Executive Editor !Jarb Langhenry Execut1ve Editor Ro~pmary Mdls. E::ditonal Editor 
Phd Cackley 
)Pan Powley Ann Gales M1ke Lewis D1anP Wilson Ray O'Hnen 
Doug Christian 
Mardi Nevin 
John Tucker 
Bob Rudy 
Vol. XIII, No. 35 

Cor\ Editor 
St Mary's Ed1tor 
NPws Editor Nt>ws Editor News Editor Sports Editor Photo Editor 
Production Manager Business Manager Advertising Manager 
Monday, October 16, 1978 
DOONESBURY 

Opinio~ {~ff~~t~~~~~~t~t!!!!!?!!!!!!!i!!!!ii!i!!!i!i!i!!!i!:!:U:!:)!{{{{i!i!i!ti!i!!!!!i!!!I!I!
by Garry Trudeau 

'Home
7lJP AJitRICANNE60T!AffJR, fT11/ASN'TAU. I'MCHCSAHIJ CflEAM ATCAMPa4VIO, IAJ4S fT? IN ma; YOU HAD YOUR 
SHARE OF LOW fiJifTeR. 

MARKS, RJ6HT? I 
sweet 

home' 
'/if/!fifi/\~/i~~\~\fr~~\~t#;{~~;\;t;!;~~@W:ft=i@~lW=~l/(/t/t{fWitlMi/?MWN\ 
Every year there is tension between South Bend residents and Notre Dame students who ~ive off-campus. Sometimes the disagreements are marked by nam~-calhng and angry flare-ups. What is behind this tension? 
N~tre Dame ts a localland~ark, a point of pride which has helped put the ctt~ _on the map. Local restdents are proud to show it off, to claim some part of tt, to say and to know that it is here. 
But the complicated area of housing is a point of concern. South Bend like ~any, cities, is rediscovering the idea of neighborhood, Ifcities are t~ be vtable m the futur~, st~ong n~i~~borhoods must be the building blocks. Th~ cost of new housmg ts prohtbtttve for most families, so they must look agatn at cheaper housing which already exists in cities. These are the areas which were once being abandones. 
Also, available housing for the poor is in short supply. Thus they have to settle for whatever they can find, even if the place is unfit. Cities must c_ope with increased pressure on the housing market and substandardiza­tton of homes.$ 
. ~eighborhood organizations are developing everywhere in the city as ctttzens b~nd together t? d~velop their neighborhood and make it a good plac~ to hve, to deal wtth,tts problems, to pressure the city for needed servtces . . For examJ?le, the Northeast Neighborhood, adjacent to the University, 1s a g_ood net~hborhood which is struggling to be better. It has been and re':"ams an mt~grated area of working people. It is a typical city netghborhood wtth strengths and weaknesses and a desire to be clean and safe. · 
But how do off-campus Notre Dame students relate to this or other neighborhoods where they live? Obviously, they are not "neighbors" in th~ sense of permanent residents. Students come and go, but the netghborhood stays on. Students are renters without as high a stake in the area as those with fairly deep roots. 
Parties and gatherings which generate traffic, noise and titter are a proble?J. S!udent ?ars, clustered so close together, add to the problem. If the Umverstty, for tis reasons, bans on-campus parties, this only increases the pressu~e on the nearest neighborhood to become a recreational site. 
Mea~whtle, st~dents sometimes encounter threats to their safety and vandalism of thetr property. As a result, there often exists an uneasy peace between a neighborhood and an extension of the campus as they overlap and interact. 
This is a rather brief and simply-put statement of the problems. 1would hope that off-campus students could make the neighborhood "their" netghborhood; that they would conscious of it and concerned about it in a proprietary way. .. I wout~. hate t~ see the stu~cnts and neighborhood get into an 
us-them mentahty. It can be dtfferent. Students could do much with their youth, vigor and ideas to help build a neighborhood of which they are an_ integral and ~elcome part. The more students take part, the more the netghborhood wtll be concerned about the students' particular needs and problems. 
The neighborhood is home to many people. Some have small children. Some must get up early in the morning to go to work. Some are students. It can be the kind of ~ood mix that makes a neighborhood interesting and strong. My hope ts that you off-campus students will make the neighborhood you are in your neighborhood--like the one your family lives in or the one you will settle in someday. 
(Father Quinlivan is director of the Holy Cross Justice and Peace Center in South Bend.) · 
by Frank Quinlivan, C.S.C. 
seriomly folks!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~!!!!!!!!!!!!!~~!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
A Man for All Seasons 
WASHINGTON--When it comes to  He ·looked annoyed that . I had  
watching TV sports, the last two  spoken.  
weeks have been as tough as any I  Mrs. McCloskey returned with the  
can remember. Between college  glass of water.  
football on Saturday, the American  "Don't be too upset if he pretends  
and National League baseball play- he doesn't hear you. He hears  
offs, as well as the World Series,  what he wants to."  
not to mention double-header pro  "When did he get this way?"  
g~mes on Sunday, and Monday  "I think it was during the third  
mght football, the American sports  Yankee-Kansas City game. He just  
fan has been glued in his chair for  went into a TV coma and hasn't  
days on end.  come out of it. I called the doctor,  
The other night I dropped over to  but he wouldn't come over because  
see McCloskey to watch a football  he said he didn't want to miss  
g~me with him. He didn't recog- Oklahoma playing Texas. He told  
mze me when I walked in. His eyes  me to turn off the set and give him  
were red and bulging out.  two aspirin. I tried to turn off the  
"McCloskey,'' I cried. "It's me.  set but Phil became so violent, I  
Are you all right?"  had no choice but to turn it on  
Mrs. McOoskey took me by the  again." -··  
arm, out of earshot. "Don't worry,  ''Uhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh, '• Me- 
he ~oesn_'t recognize me eigher.  Ooskey said.  
He JUst stts there for hours staring  "What is it Phil? What do you  
at the set."  want?"  
"Uhhhhhhhhhhhhhh," McCios- McCloskey put his arms around  
key groaned, waving his hand back  his shoulders.  
and forth.  "You're cold, is that it? Here's a  
Mrs. McCloskey rushed to his  blanket. See I'm wrapping it  
side. "What is it Phil? Do you  around you. Now isn't that  
want water? Is that what you  better?"  
want?. "  M 0c k 'os ey s head just drooped.  
:·uhhhhh," McCloskey said, liod­ "He dozes off every once in a  
dtng his head in the affirmative.  while," she told me. "But he  
rs. McCloskey rushed out to get  never faits to wake up when  
him a glass of water. I sat down  something exciting is about to  
next to him. When the quarter was  happen."  
ove1 and there was a commercial  "This must be orettv tough on  
break, I said, "Well, Phil. how's it  you,'' I said. • -"' 

going?" --.·.·--·..·.' ..·.··'T"'
. . • . -• -__ • . .• _'le c,.itdren and I take turns 

art buchwald 
sitting with him. The doctor says once the World Series is over, and h~'ll only have football to watch he'II get better. 
"Do you want me to go?" I asked. 
"No, the doctor said it's good for him to be around people even if he refuses to speak to them." 
"Uhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh," Mc­Closkey said. 
"What's he saying?" I asked. 
"He wants something to eat," Mrs. McCloskey said. "He always gets hungry when he sees a McDonald's commercial. "Phil, don't go away. I'm bringing you a nice bowl of soup." 
"Uhhhhhh." 
"You want potato chips, too? It's coming right up. Keep an eye on him," Mrs. McOoskey said. "If he gets out of his chair, grab him. He hasn't been on his legs in two weeks." 
Suddenly McCloskey'turned to me and tried to say something. "What is it, Phil? Spit it out. What is it?" 
He made a gesture for me to lean over so he could whisper in my ear. The words came out slowly, almost as a grunt, but they were clear. He said, "Cosell... talks... too... much." 
I called Mrs. McOoskey. "I think he's coming out of it!" I ~ried. "He just spoke to me." 
Mrs. McOoskey burst into tears. "Now, if we can just get him through the World Series." 

--~-~ 



by Pat Toomey 

Despite a disappointing atten­dance at some activities, Home­coming chairman Joe Guckert deemed Homecoming Week a success. "Although some events were not as well-attended as we had hoped, those who went to Homecoming activities generally 
_ had a good time," said Guckert. 
Guckert cited the large number of test scheduled during the week as the major factor holding down attendance at Homecoming events. 
He said that Monday Night at the Movies, the Irish Follies, and the fireworks on Friday received the best response from students. Guckert mentioned the Toga Party at Stepan Center, which attracted 
. only four students, as the biggest failure. Student Union Director Bill Roche also called the week a success, and h•e commended those who worked on Homecoming activi­ties. "We makde a positive step towards making Homecoming at Notre Dame what it should be," 
Campbell gives 
impressions 

[continued from page 3] 
"Washington,Ithink,hastakenl
t~e attitude of 'Wei!, I~t's not press I h1m too much, let s just be sure I that he doesn't try to interfere with I the agreements'," he estimated. 1 
"Husseinmakingis in with
towards leaningpeace spirit Israel," conceded Campbell. "However, he would not think it practical unless he gets one on terms that can be supported, and that includes getting back the 
whole West Bank." 
Campbell also credited presiden­tial advisor Zbigniew Brezinski with having played a major role in Camp David. 
"One need only look at the Brookings Report produced in late 1975," he commmented. "He (Brezinski) was on that panel. It is 1 almost a blueprint of what the Carter Administration has done in the Mideast." 
"Indeed," Campbell laughed, "we even saw a picture of him playing chess with Mr. Begin." 
Sen. Dole to visit 
South Bend 

Senator Robert Dole of Kansas, former Republican nominee for Vice-President, will be in South Bend tomorrow for a luncheon on behalf of Thomas L. Thorson, GOP I candidate for Congress. 
Any students interested in 
attending the noontime event are 
invited to call Kevin Richardson at 
3587 for tickets and information. 
Trigiani terms 
Founder's Day 
great success 

Saint Mary's 135th Founder's Day 
celebration, held last Thursday, 
was a great success, according to 
Pia Trigiani, spokesman for Saint 
Mary's Student Government. 
The $25 hall banner contest prize 
was split between the college's five 
residence halls ''because all made 
such an effort to participate," 
Trigiani said. 
Winner of the college seal 
hooked rug raffle was Arian Duffy, 
a Saint Mary's alumnae from Rocky 
River OH. A long-time supporter 
of the coiJege, she was co-winner of I Roche stated. Because the Pitts­burgh game is not the big rivalry that the USC game is, Roche said that it was decided not to make the game the focus of this year's Homecoming. Instead, an entire week full of Homecoming activities was planned. 
GRADUATING COLLEGE STUDENTS ••.




WHAT'SAN HSACAREER' 
1

~ · 1 
e • 1 
I 

T<al.re the PQW·and find out. 
I 
Graduates from a broad spectrum of academic disciplines may now enter challenging career training programs with the National Security Agency. If you are recetving a liberal arts, business, or mathematics degree before September 1979, the Professional Qualification Test (PQT) could be your first step toward employment in one of these programs. 
You must register by November 4, 1978 in order to take the PQT on campus. It will not be given again during this school year. By scoring well on this test. you will qualify for an employment interview. During the interview, an NSA representative will discuss the specific role you might play in furthering this country's communications security or in producing vital foreign intelligence information. 
The PQT helps to measure your potential for career areas such as: 
PROGRAMMING -Our vast communications analysis projects could not be effectively managed without the latest computer hardware/software and people who know how to use them. 
LANGUAGES -Foreign languages are valuable tools for research, analysis, and documentation projects. 
I' 
I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I 
I 
I 
1 
_ 
Advanced training in language (perhaps a new language) can be expected. 

COMMUNICATIONS -Scientifically devised. tested. and ·managed cryptographic systems insure the maximum degree of 
security in transmitting sensitive information around the globe. 
Since cryptography is a unique pursuit. the training of new 
employees here is extensive and esoteric. 
OTHER"OPPORTUNITIES -A limited number of applicants will also be selected from the PQT to enter our Information Science, Logistics, Resource Management. Security, and Personnel fields. 
PICK UP A PQT BULLETIN at your college placement office. It 
contains a registration form waich you must mail prior to 
November 4 in order to take the test on November 18. There is 
no registration fee. 
Electronic Engineering, Computer Science, Slavic, Mid F.astern 
and Asian language majors and Mathematics majors at the 
Masters level may interview without taking the PQT. 
U.S. Citizenship is mandatory. 2\ thorough background investigation and medical examination are also required. 

tl·e distinguished alumnae award several years ago. 
I

I1-------llllllli-----------I 
i 
J 
~onday, Ck1ober16, 1978 

the obsaner ·~t>L~~JTT ......... 95th Congress
''Whoevet Dlscoveted 
~"'~ 


passes tax cuts

Watet, 
before closing

You Can Be Sute 
WASHINGTON [AP] -The 95th Congress lumbered to a close and

It Wasn't A Fish'' 
passed into history yesterday after approving election-year tax cuts for 
--mcuahall fficLuhan 

millions of Americans and giving President Jimmy Carter an energy program at last. 
The chief curtain-closer on the

WEEKEND RETREATS 
. 
final, 34-hour, around-the-clock session was House passage of compromise legislation to cut taxes on individuals and businesses by
November 3-5-Slater Jane Pltz 
$18.7 billion. The Senate voted 72-3 for the
Decemberl-3 -Father 8111 Toohey 
measure and the House approved it, 337-38. That sent the bill to the 
president and weary members home to campaign. The tax bill was scaled down from a $29.3 billion measure that 
Lake michigan Cottage 
For Information Call 6536 or 3820 
Carter called inflationary and unacceptable. 

For individuals, the package would cut taxes a total of $12.7 billion by raising the current $750 personal exemption to $1,000, reducing rates across the board and increasing the standard deductions to $2,300 for singles and $3,400 for couples. The general $35 tax credit would be repealed. 
At daybreak yesterday, the ---~~~---~~~---~~---........,.._,....,....,....__.....,....~~---...,....,~---~~--------," House completed action on a 
EARN OVER$650AMONTH 



RIGHT THROUGH YOUR 
,

SENIORYEAR. 
If you're a junior or a senior majoring in math, physics or engineering, the Navy has a program you should know about. 
It's called the Nuclear Propulsion Officer Candidate­Collegiate Program ( NUPOC-C for short) and if you qualify, you can earn as much as $650 a month righ~ through your senior year. Then after 16 weeks of Officer Candidate School, you'll receive an additional year of advanced technical education. This would cost you thousands in a civilian school, but in the Navy, we pay you. And at the end of the year of training, you'll receive a $3,000 cash bonus. 
It isn't easy. There are fewer than 400 openings and only one of every six applicants will be selected. But if you make it, you'll have qualified for an elite engineering training program. With unequaled hands-on responsibility, a $24,000 salary in four years, and gilt-edged qualifications for jobs in private industry should you decide to leave the Navy later. (But we don't think you'll want to.) 
As~ your placement officer to set up an interview with a Navy representative when he visits the campus or contact your Navy representative at 312-657-2169 (collect). If you prefer, send your resume to the Navy Nuclear Officer Program, Code 312-B537, 4015 Wilson Blvd., Arlington, Va. 22203, and a Navy representative will contact you directly. The NUPOC-Collegiate Program. It can do more than help youfinish college: itcan lead to an exciting career opportunity. 
NAVYOFFICER. IT'S NOTJUSTAJOB, IT'S AN ADVENTURE!t. 
compromise version of the energy program Carter submitted to Con· gress 18 months ago as the "moral equivalent of war." 
The package would gradually lift federal price controls from natural gas and give tax credits for home insulation and solar energy. It also would tax gas-wasting cars. 
Carter won his ownly two veto battles with Congress, over a nuclear aircraft carrier and a $10.2 billion package of energy and water development projects. A veto threat was all it took to kill congressional moves for tuition tax credits. 
He also was successful in tough fights for ratification of the Panama Canal treaties, approval of an arms sale package to the Middle East and the lifting of the arms embargo against Turkey. 
On other issues, Congress went along with his blueprints for a Department of Energy· and major changes in the civil service system. 
Congress refused Carter's request for a separate Department of' Educli'tion and turned down a plan to put federal controls oh rising hospital costs. 
The administration failed to win consideration of national health insurance or welfare revision plans. 
They will be among issues waiting for the 96th Congress when it convenes Jan. 15. 
Also killed was a sweeping plan to protect 100 million acres of Alska wilderness from development. 
In the closing hours, the House reversed an earlier stand and agreed to go along with "less restrictive language covering taxpayer-funded abortions. The curbs were part of a $56 billion spending bill -sent to the White House -for the departments of Labor and Health, Education and Welfare. 
Weller to discuss 
tropical diseases 
Thomas H. Well~. M.D., chair­man of the Department of Tropical Public Health at Harvard Univer­sity, will di, .tss tropical diseases in three Nieuwland Lectures at the University of Notre Dame today, tomorrow an I Wednesday. 
The publtc is invited to attend the lectures, to be held in the Galvin Life Science Building Audi­torium. 
Weller's topics will be "Health Crusades and Tropical Diseases," today at 4:30 p.m.; "Varicella: a Persistent Virus and Persistent Challenge," tomorrow at 
4:30 p.m.; and "Schistosomiasis: Our Fragmentary Knowledge of a Man-made Disease," Wednesday, at 12:15 p.m. 
The lectures are. sponsored by the department of microbiology. 

~onday,Ckiober16, 1978 the observer
,.•.•...........................................
•
• 1 ~ ~ ~ Wanted: Two beautiful blondes need ride We all know that Dan Gonzales •
• CtASSJ J€vS to Nashville Tenn. for Oct. break. Cali represents the ~al San Antonio stud-• Irish take state title
• 4-1-4282 type. [or do we ...) • 
But maybe San Antonio stud-types • 
InVitational is weekend
• Need ride to Philadelphia Oct. break. aren't everything they're cracked up to • by Mark Hannuksela this ana 
then the Regionals will be held
• Please Call Susan 4-1-4509 ba... • and 
e Nonetheless, DAN GONZALES IS Beth Menke before the Irish call it a season, but e NOTICES Need rides to Tuscon or as far west as MOST DEFINITELY CRACKED UPII! e irregardless of what happens in any e Blue line club will sponsor Student Hocky possible. Mary 4-1-4702 P.S. Please, Dan-nee, don't kill me! II! I • It was a team effort in every 
of these matches, they are state e Hockey booster club. Interested? Call AITENTION ND-SMCCOMMUNiTv--•. sense of the word. They were the champs, and nobody can strip them 
• 8488 Help! I desperately need ride to Texas for . underdogs, going against heavy
break. Will share driving, expenses. The Annual St. Nick's Bazaar ts 1ess • of that title. 
• 
Study abroad this summer? Interested _ Cali 8598. than two months away! People are • favorites. They were not supposed The St. Mary's team also travel­

• 
contact Dr. A.A. Black SMC _4948 needed to sponsor booths. If interested • to have the talent that . their led to Indianapolis this past Satur· e Wanted: ride to indianapolis on Frioay call Betz. at 4-1-5148. opponents had. In fact, after the day to participate in the state e Typing done in my home. Fast accurate, afternoon, Oct. 20. Will share expenses. • first day of competition they were 


tournament. Last year's Belles
e reasonable. Close to campus. Phone Call Greg 3506 Mass at the grottoMonday October 16th • right where people expected them placed second, but this year they
272-7866 10:30 pm Fr. Robert Griffin, celebrant e 
• 
Attention! Need ride to Boston for Notre Dame Glee Club will sing • to be, behind the leader. But had to settle for a fourth place 

• 
0 t be b k c 11 R 3848 anyone that follows this crazy world finish out of a field of 17 teams.

• 
Planning a wedding or Dance? Music for c o r rea . a enee, SAILING CLUB PARTYFriday night -• of sports knows that victory can 


Placing second and third in this
that special occasion. The Dennis Bamber Gut·seppes Less dt·sco _more beer •
• quartet. 272-8266 I need ride east 1-80 to Penn State exit, • never be claimed until the clock'has year's tourney were DePauw and e Oct. break. Kevin 283-1652 and 3745 run out. Well, Saturday evening 
Tavlor, respectively. 
• Monday Is the last day to buy season Lost: Women's Timex watch Thurs night • the clock ran out on the Notre l.iomg mto the tournamnet the.
H k ti k ts A c c G t 10 OVERSEAS JOBS-Summer/ full time. between LaFortune and ACC gate 10 •
• oc ey c e · · · · a e Gold w·1th blue face Call Sarah 6865 • Dame women's tennis team, but
Europe. S., America, Australia Asia, etc. Belles were optimistic about their 
• 
Typist will do typing. Neat and accurate. All fields, $500-$1200 monthly, expenses • when it did, the girls were the 1978 chances for improving upon last 

• 
Reasonable rates. Call: 287-5162 paid, sightseeing. Free info.-Write: Missy, • Indiana Intercollegiate Women's year's performance. Said coach 

• 
International Job Center, Box 4490-14 There once was a girl from Patton, Tennis Team Champions. · 


Karen Grummell, after Saturday's
F. F · .. th Berkeley CA 94704 W10se shot was smooth as satin, She • 1 . d
• 
W t a c h "F ancy mgers anas on e came to Notre Dame, to play her favorite • "We were peasant1y surpnse , fourth-place finish, "We were very

• 
8:25a.m. WNDU news. A star is born!!! game, Now her dream has happened • to say.the least," commmented a disappointed. We have a strong

• 
Need Bicycle Second-hand Call 234-1633 Congratulations! • very elated Sharon Petro, team 

team with depth, and had hoped to 

• 
Steak and Ale is looking for an attractive e coach. "We weren't supposed to win the state this year."

• 
cocktail waitress. Must ba dynamic and Danny Boy-finish much higher than third, but 

• 
LOST &FOUND personable will ba needed during Christ-Happy 19th! Try to stay out • the girls just played some kind of • 


mas break. If interested apply in person troubie(ha!) and practice your kicks on • . h" k d d 
01 'They had to'
fired up tenms t 1s wee en , an

I •
e Found: Womens ring in bathroom of between 2-5 pm Monday-through Friday. someone e se. 
----------------Bennie Boys • we came away the Indiana state [continued from page 8]
• 
Keenan Hall, Michigan Game weekend. • champs. Needless to say every­

• 
Call Mary 4-4368 Desperately need ride to Atlanta for Oct. was the option. Our inside veer 


break. Can leave after Emil. Will share Mary Jude,. e· body is real thrilled with the 
and counter-option off the inside
• Lost: driving and expenses. Call Tom, 1135 Happy Btrthday! May. Y?U· ~!ways • victory, although Saturday night trap were both working well,
e 1(An opal ring. endeavor to perfect your nch mtenor. t tir d t . "t Wh so 
• N ed ·d d 1 f . George Knightley e we were oo e o enJoy 1 . o that's what we stuck to, said
2( A Nardin High School Ring. e n e to Colora o or break. I gomg • wouldn't be tired after playing Trocano.
• 
3( Gold ring with red, blue and pink to or through Call 232-8339 will pay. tennl·s from 8.·30 a.m. to 11.·30 p.m.

• 
stones. Call a144 Paula and Kin, • The junior quarterback differed


Wanted: Ride to Cincinnati tor October Dinner for four, Chicks, will ~II for e for two consecutive days?" 
with Jones in his assessment of the 
: Lost at hurricane; blue N.D. Swimming break Call Lou 1502 romantics, and the fun's greater sttll now e Saturday morning opened with Irish secondary. 
• Jacket. Please return to 254 Cavanaugh. that you'll toot the bill? G?J e the singles finals in each of the six "Their defensive backs did a 
or Stanford T.V. LOUNGE. Need ride to Minnesota will share • positions. Peggy Walsh was the 
• 
expenses Call Bob 16749 good job covering our receivers. 

• 
Found: contact lens in case found Jim Rosso-E.A.D.* D.A.P.* AND C.A.C. • first to lose on this day, dropping a They were especially strong in 

• 
between Huddle and Music Building. Need ride to St. Louis for Oct. break, • straight set decision. Stasey helping out the cornerbacks cover­

• 
Turned into Observer office. Contact share driving and expenses. Call Nick ·Fianner 5-A • Obremskey. was also the runner up 


ing Gordon (Jones)." 
• 
Mrs. Popovich. 4631 PS-Pat Gunning has a carpet fetish! • in her division, losing to Carmel 


Trocano was also full of praise 
• 
Needed ·. Two GA tt.ckets to the Tennessee Annie elle, • Maenza from SMC 7-6, 6-1. Mary for his counterpart, Irish QB Joe

Lost-A gold Schaeffer pen with a flower d e Le 1 · b fi 1
e design and an inscription. If found please game-name your price! Call Mark I'll admit it to the world-I'm onH ruQS. geay p aymg num er ve, a so Montana. "He started to click on 
• 234-2391 Your faithfu1 ooster • faced a girl from SMC, Terri
call Cam 18905 his passes when his team was 
e • Bracken. Legeay emerged from down. That's what makes a good
• Lost: A high school class ring from 1976 Needed: 2 riders for plane trip to Dear Buff, • the match as the state champ in quarterback great," said Trocano. 
• Cave Spring High School. Gold Ring with Colorado over break-call Chris or Zenon Please get well soon. 1need you!!!! • number five singles, · by virtue of Montana was only 8 of 18 passing
Blue Sapphire Stone. Gold inlaid C.X. on 288-8417 Love, The Muff e her 6_4• 6_3 win. 
• before rallying and finishing with 7 
on stone..Name on inside of band. • 
e Need Miami GA tickets. Call Mike at Dear Drugs, The team's next match is this straight completions. His perfor­e 7838 Hope you're not adverse to dancing • evening, when it travels across mance can be described in the 
with underclasswomen. Have a TOGA • 31 ak h · h
• 
same terms as his teams, "They

FOR SALE I need two GA tickets to Miami. Call after break!!! 1 wanna dance or. .. !? • Interstate to t e on t elr arc 

• 
277-1494 ME • rivals, Saint Mary's. The Irish had to come back and they did." 


• For Sale, 71 VW Convertible, Yellow, • r-------------=---------------, e $900, 256-0648 after 6 Need 2 Miami GA tickets. Call Liz: 7484 WANT TO LEARN TO BOX? ENJOY AN e 
e /&#% Porsche 914. New Micheiins, FM Need two GA Miami tickets. Call Bren-EXCITING SPORT BOXING ROOM IN e 

collegiate crossword
• 
(after 5 pm) WANTED: Riders, Call 6283 and leave Hey Roomie, e 

• 
your name with the Student Union -1just wanted to tell you 1think you're e • Casperson's Book Shop open Wed. Sat., Ombudsman Rider Service terrific. wouldn't trade you in for • e Sunday 9-7. 50,000 used books. A general anyone. Happy 19th. 

• 
shop. 1303 Buchanan Road, Niles, 683-Need GA tix for any home football game. 


Guess Who: 

• 2888 Bruce 3623 ----------------------OC Juniors-•
• Beach Boys Concert Tickets main floor I'll trade big money for up to 7 GA's for Newsletters and Senior Trip Surveys in •
• fourth row Mike 3187 Tennessee Call Bill 8604 NOW LaFortune Deposit Surveys in Box by e Wednesday e 
Wanted: two GA tickets for Miami game. Call 2254 Laura, Mary, Diama, Janet, Mary, Anne, .• WANTED Pat Ellen and EVERYBODY. Thanks for HELP-Need 2 GA Miami tickets!!!! Call making this my best birthday ever. Love, • Mary-4-1-4359 Moe
• Would be willing to trade six GA Miami 
• tickets for four GA Tenn. Call 288-9049 ----------------------· 
Need ride to Texas for break will share Hair cut $5 Style cut Air dry $7 at Stacy's • • Attention!INeed 4 GA tix for Tenn. expenses 7007 3421 Mishawaka Avenue South Bend. • 
• game. Any price -Call 3848 after 10:30 ____ e
P_h_on_e_~ As_k_~_rs_ta_cy_. ____
Need many GA Miami tickets. Bill S . Want to go west on 80 for break? I could 289-2046 or 232-0550. MASS AT THE GROITO today 10:30 e use some riders to Iowa, Nebraska or p.m. Fr. Robert Griffin, clelbrant Notre • Wyoming Call Tim 1105 
Needect: 5 tickets for Miami Call Dan Dame Glee Club will sing. e 
1850 or 1775 • Need ride to Washington DC area for Fall Mark Muench travels with Amazon • break. Will share driving and expenses 
Please help me get 2 to 4 GA tickets for women Call Tom 4552 Miami Call (283) 1044 Thank you Matt "Call me Warren" Haws looks a • 
whole lot like Potsie Weber • • Need ride to Philadelphia Oct. break. !Need Miami tickets$$ Call John 272-Dan Meuleman-Were you adropout or a • • Will share expenses. Call Ann 289-1572 S354 Ceasarean? • 
• Need ride to Milwaukee for break. Call Dave Wuertz is a Chicago Bear Fan • Tom, 1530· 
So much for the non-aggression pact, •
•
• Ya'll help!!! Need ride to Memphis for PERSONALS gentlemen, This is war, and you have just • • break Call 7821 witnessed my first strike capability. • There once was a girl named Lou whose SchmuTzige Pferden. 
• Need two tickets GA for Miami Call Joe character was chaste and true And 48 Box 14 Miss Stritch
ACROSS

• 
1101 because of this we'll give you a kiss and SO Approaches 15 Vendor wish "Happy Birthday" to you. 1 Gold, for one 51 Sunlight 20 Boston time

•e 
Need as many student tix for Miami as Answers 6 Columbus's seaport 52 Places (abbr.) 

• 
possible. Call Mary 4-5797 KB, e 11 Goblet 54 Massachusetts cape 23 Asian native 


Birthdays are very special events. They • 13 Pain relievers 55 Kosher 24 Protects
to Friday's
• I need 5 GA Miami tickets (not ne­signify the passing of times both good • 16 Gnawing animals 56 English schoolboy 27 Itern for Groucho 
: cessarily all together. Call John at 1991. and bad. It's a sign of growing up, e 17 Crawly creature 58 Cotton cloth . 28-system maturing, and in some cases of growing e 18 Priestly vestment 6G Alluring 31 Mend

puzzle

• Wanted: 2 or 4 GA tickets for any home old. • 19 Race-starter's word 61 Piano adjustments 33 Campus buildin9 
e football game. Call Mike 7838 Hopefully for your special day your 21 Flower part 62 Took Dn oath 35 Snoods (2 wds.) 
prayers were answered and your dreams • 
22 Very extensive 63 Word in many 36 Flips Need two GA tickets to tickets to came true. Your personality merits you • 23 Zane Grey locales college names 37 North American Tennessee. Call Tony 6718 at least those wishes • 25 Playwright Simon deer ----------------remaining mellow • 26 Yore 38 Webster, et al. Need 10 Miami GA tickets. Call Joe 8588 me e B-=+;:i.ii~ 27 Saddle parts DOWN 40 "Think of it!" 
• 
P.S. Sorry this wish was belated! • 29 Compass point 1 Oscar -41 Uttering 

• 
Need 2 GA tix to Miami Please call Ed • ~~~ 30 Capable of being 2 Put in office 42 Works for a winery e 1177 I bet nobodythought I could be serious or stretched 3 Sharp prong 45 Spiritual session • even kind for that matter. Will wonders • 32 Weather outlook 4 Statute 46 Critic's term • Need GA Tennessee tickets Call1904 never cease? e: 34 Mild expletive 5 Diminished 49 Continue a sub­

• 
P.S. M.N. &L.D. I owe you all one too e1 35 Mo1okai dance 6 Entrance scription 

• 
Mom and Dad will pay $$$ for 2 GA e ~±:-fl!l 36 Like most streets 7 Zoo attraction 51 Pay 

• 
Tennessee tix-Call John 8656 Dear Mel, e 1-:':1-.;;+;;..+.;:, 39 Asian language B Edges 53 --Japanese War 

• 
I love ya. Come and visit me in my • I specialist 9 Of a cereal 55 Miss Wood e Need riders to Louisville for Oct. break massage parlor. • ~-=+:+.+.:-43 Paddle 10 Salary 57 Car feature, for 

• 
Leaving Sat. noon after GRE exam Call Love, 44 Harsher 11 Necktie short Sue 6971 I Love B • 47 Pasture sound 12 Reverence 59 King on tour 


~ .............••....•..........
~ 
·· ~,.-. !,'•. ·, ;, '~r,. •l'' ~,,.,c..:·~·':''.!":\ .. '""" ~· .... _._ -·· ......... ..,____ ,. _____ ,_.,. .... -_ .. ____ -.---. ............ _... _,_, ......... ' .....
~ -·,..~~~#_ 



~--------------------------------------------------------~-------------~~ ­
8 the observer Monday, October 16, 1978 
Heavens cracks mark 
Irish hand No.9 Pitt first setback 

Devine ordered his team to go forby Ray O'Brien six points.
Sports Editor 
"Going for the touchdown was In their biggest win of the year, not sound football," later 
the Irish waited until Pittsburgh explained the Irish head coach. became a "pain in the neck" "Sometimes you just fly by the seat before pouring on 19 foruth quarter of your pants. I don't know why I 
points running away with a 26-17 really did it." decision. Nevertheless, it worked as The pain became too intense Montana saw all his primary 
with just over 12' minutes receivers covered and dumped off remaining in the game and Notre the ball to Vagas Ferguson who Dame trailing by ten points. On cradled the ball as if it was a new 
first and ten from the Pitt 41, born baby giving ND an insur­Heavens slanted for seven behind 
mountable 26-17 lead. Tim Huffman, but Huffman never For Notre Dame, the beginninggot up, holding an injured neck that and end of the game was the most would take him out of action for the enjoyable. Sophomore Tom Gib­
rest of the game but give his bons, who was to be tested brother and teammates the covering All-American split end emotional push needed to dominate Gordon Jones throughout the 60 
hoth sides of the line for the next 12 minutes, pikced off an errant minutes. Trocano pass to set up the first TD On the next play, Dave Huffman of the game as the home team gotcleared the way for Heavens, a the ball 39 yards from the goal line. player on his way to 120 yards "We were practicing against their enabling him to pass George Gipp slant-in all week," said Gibbofts. for the all-time Notre Dame "As soon as I saw the quarterback rushing mark, who ran four yards drop pack, I knew he would pass 
for a tirst down. From there it was quickly so I just stepped in." no stppping the awakened Green The offense took Gibbon's lead Machine. as Heavens began his outstanding
"My brother's injury set me performance running four times, off,'l explained older Huffman. the las.t good for two.yards and the 
"Wh,en he went down a part of me TD. Dave Huffman was responsi­went down and family ties are ble for keeping the drive going on Irish fullback jerome Heavens ran for 120 yards Saturday, 21 more than was needed to pass George·stronger than football. After that I the play previous to the score as he Gipp as the Number One Notre Dame rusher of all time. [Photo by Cate McGuiness]. · got1fired and fired a few other ran over Pitt middle guard Dave 
was Bob Golic and Joe Restic that

pe9ple up." Logan enabling Montana to sneak "You want to go out and achieve especially in such a great win." 
led the way as Golic was all overJ1.1ontana, who passed two more for the necessary two yards on a good things,'' commented Heavens Chevrolet Offensive Player of the the field in the first half gatheringtimes to Kris Haines, the last one third down conversion. after the game. "I looked forward Game Joe Montana completed his 22 tackles in the game. Resticfor eight yards and the TD, Pitt scored their first TD on a79-to breaking this record because it last seven passes in a row running recorded six solo takcles, seven

col!ldn't have agreed more with yard drive capped by a Trocano was so close. But I'm not a person his yardage total to 218, the first assists, broke up a pass andDave Huffman's analysis. "Dave boot leg as the Panther rushing that goes for individual records. I time this season the ND signal recovered a fumble earning himwas really mad when his brother game sliced consistently through just thank God and my teammates caller cracked the 200 yard barrier. 
La-Z-Boy defensive player of thegot hurt and he really got every­NO's front line of defense. that it happened and came On the other side of the line, it game.

body fired up. After that we were Three minutes later, Dave confident that we would win." Schubert turned a Stone fumble A young Panther team that had into three points as he split the 
made few mistakes through three uprights from 33 yards out. The 


ND,'They had to come back'
quarters must have felt the Irish missed a chance to tie the momentum switching. The option score at the outset of the second 
by lou Severino

sweeps out of the veer found more half when Joe Unis missed a 14-big play. We're not a team that can praise for his club. "It's a very and more green jerseys as Pitt's yard field goal. This swayed the Sports Writer do that yet." tough loss, especially for a young Rick' Trocano began burring his momentum back to the Panthers as "They had to come back and The Panthers' mentor called the team with only ten seniors on the pitches which eventually set up the Pitt put together a 62-yard drive they did.'' That one short sentence 86-yard Irish drive early in the squad. Despite our loss, I think clinching TD for Dan Devine's ending in another Trocano keeper of Coach Jackie Sherrill seemed to fourth quarter a turning point in we're going to have a great team teani. making the score 17-7 before the typify the feeling in the Pitt the game, along with the fumble very soon. " 
'On a first down play from Pitt's Irish team took command. dressing room after the Panthers (and subsequent recovery by Jay Two of the Panthers defensive 29, Trocano was hurried by NO's The pivotal win was highlighted succumbed to three 4th quarter Case) after NO had taken a 19-17 stalwarts. Dave Logan and Hugh Jay Case and rushed a pitch behind by performances from familiar ND touchdowns which gave the lead. Green, had complaints about the Rooster Jones who couldn't get a names that had their best outings Irish a 26-17 win Saturday. ·'They didn't stop us, we Irish offensive line. Logan, who handle on it as Case recovered for of the season. Heavens' 120 yards "Notre Dame came up with the stopped outselves with the three went head-to-head with Dave Huff­the home team.Fromthere Heavens on 30 carries was his first 100-yard big plays when they had to have fumbles and two interceptions,'' man, described the Irish center as barreled his way to the three yard game of the 1978 season allowing them," ·admitted Sherrill. muttered Sherrill. "We executed a very ag;•ressive blocker. "A lot line where Notre Dame was faced him to make his mark in the record "They're an excellentiootball team very well on offense otherwise." of times L.:·s a little over aggres­with a fourth and goal situation. books. , because of that ability to make the Sherrill ended his remarks with sive,'' said Logan. "He did some 
things I didn "t like." However, the

Ray 0'Brien~===============================================================:====================:====:=:===============:::::=:=::;::=:=::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;::=:::::=::;:;:;:;:;::=====::;:;::=:=:::=::;::=:=:=:===========:=========::=::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;::=:=:====:::: 
Pitt nost· ord was quck to call Huffman best center he has played ar :t. Logan l had compliments for

I Was Wrong, But • • • 
the Irish' nsive line .."Their line played very well as a unit. They kept coming at us and never let 

·===========-==:=::;:;::=:==:==·====::::=:=============================:========:=:=:=:=::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;::=:=:=:=======:=:=:=:=:===:=::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;::=:=:=:=:====::::::::=:=::=:=:===:====::::::=========::;:;:;::=:=:====:::;:;::=:=:=:=::;:;:;:;:;:;::::=:=:::::===:=:==:=:====::::=:::::::=:::=:=:::=:.The up." praised Logan. 
Irish Eye 

Th~ Green Machine is alive, and so are the people that make it run. Championship team that included Heisman candidates Ross Browner and Hugh Green, the Panthers' 218­Unfort11nately or fortunately, depending how you look at it, I got run over Ken McAfee. This year he has been overshadowed by names such as Bob pound All-American defensive end by that machine this weekend as I picked Pitt to beat the Irish by six. In Golic and Joe Montana. But this does not bother the East St. Louis native was not as complimentary in his fact, after Joe Montana passed for the final TD on a fourth down situation, who fancies himself as a "team player." What Heavens has remarks. Green complained of he came off the field and began yelling, "Where is Ray O'Brien now!" accomplished has been achieved without much fanfare. But without his repeated holding by the Irish Joe, I was up in the press box smiling, and it's nice.to know someone is consistent effort, the Irish would never have reached their high objectives. offensive linemen. "They were reading this column. More than just talented, Heavens· commands respect from his peers and hooking me under my elbow pad on 
After Saturday's performance, there is no doubt that the 1978 Fighting epitomizes the class that Notre Dame is known for. every play. I told the refs but they Irish ate a very talented fobtball team. Before this win they did not belong The victory over Pittsburgh was especially meaningful to Joe Montana just ignored me. That's the way it in the top twenty and the greatest student body in the world wasn't even who hails from a town just south of Pittsburgh. "People kept telling me was all day," said Green. in the ,top twenty in my mind. that Pitt was better than us," laughed the Irish signal caller. "Now I can Gordon Jones was another Pan­
"I got mad when I saw the Observer picked Pitt and so . did a lot of go home and enjoy myself. We don't have to face Pitt for quite a while, ther who felt short-changed by the other players. Things haven't been going that good and the fans haven't but I won tile game I wanted." referees. "I definitely thought that . the pass which Waymer knocked ' 
b~en very_satisfied ~nd _when your own pap~~ Montana's outing could be pivotal to NO's future success. By his own 
·out of my hands was a reception," jptcks. agamst you 1t kmd of bothers you, admission, "the Comeback Kid" has not been completely relaxed in the noted Jones. "I'm sure that if the'explamed a hap~y Mon!ana after the game. first 19 quarters of the season. His fourth quarter performance was ball had stayed in bounds andMontana was bemg pohte because the Notre reminiscent of his confident direction of the team in the comeback win W aymer recovered, they wouldD~me student body was taking the rol~ of. a against Purdue last year. A nervous player, Montana claims, "My mother have called it a fumble," concludedffatr weather fan. They finally came ~h~e m says I gain more yards just walking around on the sideline than anyone Jones.
the ~ourth ·qu_art~r and every player mststed <toes on the field." Perhaps he can rest a little easier as he finds the magic The speedy Jones also expressed 
that 1t had a stgmficant effect on the outcome. that has made him "The Monongahela Minuteman." When you pick against your own team you great confidence in his ability to 
Bob Golic played amazingly in the first half as he was in on nearly every 

have nothing to gain as far as "winning" is beat the Irish secondary. 
tackle and had the ABC broadcasters worshipping him. Pitt did

concerned. But it is about time someone got "I felt that I could have gotten . 
, mad on and off the field. At the very least it everything to stay away from him in the second half and the rest of the open on almost any play. Overall I defense responded. Joe Re.stic played the kind of smart football that don't thi,lk they covered me that
shows that neither the fans nor the players are 
coach's dream of. Dave Waymer saved his second game of the season
apathetic as some anti-NO and anti-Devine tough. At times we didn't throw 
knocking the ball out of Gordon Jones' hands on the goal line. 
joe Montana people would like the country to believe. the ball, although I thought we 
On the brighter side, it was nice to see Jerome Heavens break George Notre Dame goes on the raod this week to play a less than awesome Air could have done so very successful­Gipp's all-time rushing record. Heavens showed the form that put him in Force squad. It is a game that will allow them to work out any kinks on ly," noted Jones. striking distance of the record as he fought for every one of those 120 either side of the line. If they don't look ahead, it could be their first Pitt signal-caller Rick Trocano yards. The rushing total for Heavens is now 2,363 for his career ahead of runaway win which is exactly what they need at this point of the season. It explained why the Panthers Gipp's total of 2,341. should not be too ha,rd to concentrate since every game is a must win attempted only seven second-half 
Leo Durocher once said,"Nice guys finish last" and Heavens is living situation. Devine's squad looks as though it has weathered the worst aerials. proof that this adage is false. Knute Rockne made Gipp famous in a (which is becomine a trademark for Devine clubs) and the Green Machine "We were taking what their halftime speech. Nobody has made Heavens famous as the senior could travel to California in five weeks to face Southern Cal with an 8-2 defense was giving us, and that co-captain has always led by example. He has played en a National record and a major bowl bid in the bag. [continued on page 7) 
~' 




