~---~ 


SAN FRANCISCO [AP]· Mayor George Moscone's 18-year old daughter broke into sobs at his funeral mass yesterday while leading the congregation-including hundreds of public officials-in prayer. 
The slain Mayor's three other children read Bible passages from the pulpit.
The.te were 3,400 people in St. Mary's Cathedral, including Gov. Edmund 'G. Brown Jr., who arrived with an unprecedented six body­guards; 35 mayors from around the country; and iut;lges, congressmen and state legislators. 
They shared pews with people" of San Francisco, while on the broad plaza surrounding the huge c.;athedral, 5,000 to 6,000 more people listened to the ser­vices over loudspeakers. Many more saw the Mass live on tele­vision. 
Mayor of San FraJltisco since 1975, Moscone and City Supervisor Harvey Milk were fatally shot in their City Hall offices Monday, allegedly by disgruntled former Supervisor Dan White, who had resigned and then asked for his job back. Muscone had refused, at the urging of Milk and others. Milk was the first avowed homosexual to serve as a city supervisor. 
White surrendered to police and reportedly has confessed to the murders. He has been charged with two counts of murder ·and faces the death penalty. 
Milk's body will be cremated Friday and his ashed scattered over San Francisco Bay. After yester­day's mass, the dead mayor was entombed at Holy Cross Mauso­leum near the bodies of his relatives in a private ceremony. 
The funeral Mass was a tradi­
tional one. The heavy odor of mcense nung m the atr and a choir sand the Kyrie, Sanctus and Agnus Dei -regular parts of a Mass · in Latin. 
At a part of the Mass that calls for prayers for specific requests, Rebecca Moscone, 18, was praying, "For our city and for all of those who are in public office; that we may work for justice and true peace" when she began sobbing and barely recited the final words. 
The congregation called out in response, "Lord, hear our prayer," and Rebecca walked back to her seat, her right hand shielding her wet eyes. Moscone's wife, Gina, put her arm around her daughter, who continued to cry throughout the Mass. 
Moscone's three other children ­Jennifer, 21; Christopher,16; at;~d Jonathan, 13 -earlier had kept their composure during their readings. But Jennifer's soft voice cracked as she read from the Book of Wisdom: "He pleased God with his love." 

These Zahm residents are not protesting the proposed lottery, but, they obviously know how to have a good time. [Photo by Phil johnson]. 
·------..-----------------­

The Observer
j~n independent student newsp~per serving notre dame and st. m~ry's
Vol. XIII, No. 5 Friday1 December 1, 19i8 
150 students pitch sheet tents in protest of housing lottery 
by Mike Shields Staff Reporter 
Annroximately 150 students gathered outside the Administrat­
ion Building at midnight last night to protest the possibility of a housing lottery which would force some juniors off campus. 
The students pitched around 60 tents made from sheets, many bearing slogans attacking the pro­posed lottery. 
Fr. Theodore Hesburgh, Univer­sity president, came out on the porch of the building at 12:30 a.m. and spoke briefly after a group of students climbed a fire escape to the window of his third-floor office, and asked him to come down. 
Junior Class President Dan McCurrie said the idea for the demonstration came from a group of Sorin residents. A junior class meeting, which McCurrie called a "radical council," met early last night and adopted the idea. Five juniors from each hall attended the meeting, McCurrie said. 
"We realize the off-campus pro­posal is only a potential problem," McCurrie said. "But if it is important enough for the Admini­stration to discuss, then it is important enough for us to start addressing the issue." 
"We are dissappointed with the lack of initiative by the Admini­stration,'' McCurrie continued, adding, "Ifthey wanted to solve it, they would have taken more action by now." 
McCurrie said a petition opposing a lottery unless all other options were exhausted was circulated a few weeks ago. "We are deter­mined to make ourselves heard," McCurrie said, calling last night's protest a "grassroots effort." 
''The Administration is playing us for fools," he said. "They are railroading us into a lottery.'' 
McCurrie also called for a letter­writing campaign by parents of juniors, and asked that parents express their disapproval of a lottery to Hesburgh. 
Students began gathering at midnight in front of the Admini­stration Building. A light snow fell in chilling, 20-degree weather. 
Richard O'Malley from Zahm Hall said, "They say 'In loco parentis'. Would your parents throw you off campus?" Another Zahm resident, Bill Wetterer, said, "Enough has been said about In loco parentis. We deserve better than this." 
A Lew1s Hall resident, who asked to remain unidentified, raided other questions about a lottery. 
She said students who do not oo.vn cars will be especially penalize!\ because "it is impossible now to find a house within a mile of campus. Ther.e is no way it can b~; safe walking home late at night. A1 least there are sororities and fraternities at other schools (as an alternative to finding houses). There is no way to get around it (being lotteried off campus) here.'' 
Joe Kent, from Dillon Hall, said, "We've put up with overcrowding for years, and now they want to throw us off. Ifthey would attempt to solve the problem, they could." He suggested opening Columba .Hall to students and moving the 40 brothers living there to Holy Cross Junior College. 
[continued on page 13] 

CLC to appeal parietal proposal 
by Cathy Santoro 
The Campus Life Council will appeal its parietal proposal to Timothy O'Meara, University pro­vost, early next week. The proposal, if approved, will give hall judicial boards jurisdiction on par­ietal offenses. 
O'Meara will have two weeks to either accept or reject the resolu­tion. If he rejects it, the Council intends to appeal his decision to University President Fr. Theodore Hesburgh. 
The parietal resolution was re­jected earlier this week by Fr. John Van Wolvlear, vice-president for Student Affairs. "The present · system seems to be working effi­ciently and justly. No convincing reasons have been advanced to justify the proposed change. I feel that any change might lessen the importance of parietals," he said, explaining his decision. 
The CLC voted last Monday night to appeal Van Wolvlear's decision because they felt his response was inadequate. The Council expected a more precise statement on each section of the measure. 
The proposal would provide con­current jurisdiction of parietal of­fenses, according to Jayne Rizzo, judicial coordinator. 
Rizzo, who originated the resolu­
tion last Oct. 9, explained yester­
day that even though hall judicial boards would be allowed to handle parietal violations, the offense would remain a University rule. This means that, similar to other University regulations, a serious violation would be handled by a hall rector or the Dean of Students. 
With the revision of du Lac, four other offenses were allowed con­current jurisdiction. They are theft and damage of property, consump­tion of alcohol, use of marijuana, and possession of fireworks. The proposal would include parietals in this list of offenses. 
''The resolution would be an amendment to a disciplinary pro­cedure, and not a change of Univerisity rules," explained Rizzo. 
According to du Lac, all parietal offenses are to be handled by the Dean of Students. This is not the case says Rizzo.."Most violations are handled by hall rectors. The proposal would leave the serious offenses to the Dean and allow the halljudicial boards and rectors to decide the less serious cases," she said. • 
Van Wolvlear in a talk in St. Ed's Hall on Oct. 5, said he believes that students should be able to v.oice their opinions. "However, there has to be someone in charge to say this is the way it is going to be,'' he added. 
Rizzo answers the "the judicial boards can handle it (parietal offenses). They have been func­ioning efficiently and responsibly since they were standardized and strengthened last year. " 
Van Wolvlear also commented on the purpose of parietal regulation. "Parietals protect the privacy of .a . students in his hall. I would that a student, after a certain hour, to a certain amount of privacy,'' he stated. 
Dean of Students James Roemer also sees parietals as designed to protect student privacy. In a Students' Rights Forum at the end of September, Roemer called par­ietal violations an offense against privacy and quiet hours, and better off handled in the individual halls. 
As a question of privacy and quiet hours, Rizzo classifies par­ietals as a hall offense. Accor­dingly, "students should have the opportunity to go to their peers or rectors by the very nature of the offense,'' she stated. 
Sr. Marietta Starrie, rector of Lyons Hall, said that "since the judicia! board handles other hall offenses, parietal violations should also be contained in the hall." 
Karen Lipuma, judicial board chairman in Badin lfall, would also like to see the proposal passed. "Students should be allowed more responsibility to govern them­selves," she said. 


Friday, December 1, 1978
2 
the observer 
~---------~----­
,_News Briefs _____ 
t============================ National 
Utah revokes death sentences 
SALT LAKE CITY -The Utah Supreme Court yesterday overturned a justice's stay of the e·xecutions of two convicted murderers, but agreed to hold a hearing Monday on the merits of the inmates' appeals. The high court, which had refused previous appeals in the case, .>cheduled the hearing less than 72 hours before next Thursoay's planned double execution of Dale Pierre and William Andews. Pierre, 25, of Brooklyn, N.Y., and Andrews, 24, of Dalla~. were convicted in 1974 of first-degree murder in the torture killings of three Ogden residents during a robbery. 
'Dating Game' airsfugitive 
DAVENPORT, Iowa -Investigators now know a little more about where James A. Shelton went after he escaped from the Davenpor Correctional Center last year. On Sept. 13, he was in Hollywood tapirg a session of the television program "The Dating Game." They know that because a former employee of the correction center recognized him when the program was broadcast over a local station thi5 month. 
t===========::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::===== Local 
Pinto controversycontinues 
ELKHART, Indiana-The results of belated autopsies performed on two sisters killed last Augus.t in a fiery Pinto crash won't change the Ford Motor Co.'s defense in the case stemming from the deaths, a local attorney for the automaker said. Elkhart ·County Prosecutor Michael Consentino announced yesterday that autopsies completed Wednesday on Judy Ulrich, 18, and her sister, Lynn, 16, of Osceola, Ind., showed the girls di!!d of burns in the Aug. 10 crash in northern Indiana. Cosentino said the autopsies had been ordered to "eliminate any question about the cause of death." 
Weather 
Becoming cloudy Friday with a 40 percent chance of light snow developing late in the afternoon. Highs in the mid to upper 30s. A SO percent chance of light snow Friday night, diminishing to flurries Saturday morning. Lows Friday night in the upper 20s to the low 30s. Highs Saturday in the mid 30s. 
,_On Campus Today-~ 
friday dec. 1, 1978 
10 am 
1 pm 3:45pm 
5:15pm 6:30pm 7 pm 8 pm 
9 pm 
saturday dec. 2, 1978 
•  
lsat-engr. aud.  
1:30pm  basketb~ll,  nd vs.  valpo a.c.c.  
6:30pm  madrigal dinner, regina north lounge  
8 pm  play, "all over," o'laughlin auditorium  

sunday dec. 3, 1978 1 pm meeting, chess club, rathskellar 1:30pm 
meeting,student players organizational meeting fo spring play 
6:45 pm meeting,cila library lounge 
8 pm play, "all over,"o'laughlin aud. 8 pm concert, nd university chorus,sacred heart church 
. 
sale,"st. francis shoppe of third world handicrafts," sponsored by amnesty international and hunger coalition, Ia fortune 
acorn representative at volunteer services office Ia fortune ' 
meeting,german club for st. nick's party, Ia fortune ballroom 
mass and supper, at the bulla shed 
madrigal dinner, regina north lounge 
swimming meet, ned invitational relays, at the rock 
nd/smc theatre play, "all over," o'laughlin auditor­ium, smc, $2.50 
dance, frosh finale, stepan center,$1 
*The Observer 
a
Night Editor: Frank Kebe 
Asst.Night Editor: Beth Huff­
CaR)pUS 
man 
miniStry
Copyreaders: Mike Shields, 
Phil C ackley Layout Staff: Pam Degn an Editorial Layout:Greg Hedges Features Layout: by the congenial, curvaceous Cosmo Sports Layout: Paul Mullaney Typists: Tricia Meehan, Mary 
Campbell, Bill Swift, Paula 
Vernon 
Early Morning Typist: Rosie 
Rodgers, Mary McCiauley Day Editor: Maribeth Moran Ad Layout: Beth Norton, Chris Slatt 
The Observer is published Mon­day through Friday except during exam and vaation periods. TIJe Observer is published by the students of Notre Dame and S.int Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $20 per y..r CS 1 o per semester) from The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Indiana, 4U56. 
The Observer is a member of the Anocleted Press. All repro­dudion rights are reaerved. 
PBR ss.89 HAMM'S $2.75 
,
1 
I 1 Frt"day
I1 I 
1 
I 
5:15 pm Saturday 
9:15 am Sunday 
10:30 am Sunday 
12:15 pm Sunday 
7:15 pm Vespers 
SUNDAY MASSES AT SACRED HEART CHURCH 
Rev. Jack Kurps S.C.J. 
Rev. John VanWolvlear, ·C.S.C. 
Most Rev. William E. McManus, D.D. Bishop of Fort Wayne South Bend 
Rev. William Toohey, C.S.C. 
Rev. William E. McManus, D.D. 


oble.~
omatts 
PIZZA; &OTHER THINGS 
CORNER OF GRAPE ROAD &ClEVELAND 
Ir-------------------------------------,
277-5300 s1.00OFF EXPIRES 11/18178 I 
I ANYLARGE DEEP DISH SICILIAN PIZZA ! 
1 withcoupon 
L-------------------------------------~ 
~---.........-----­
3
Friday, December 1, 1978 the observer 

r 
'
House investigates 'Raoul' mystery 
WASHINGTON [AP] • Jerry mittee confronted Jerry Ray with Ray. the brother of James Earl indications that he met and talked Ray, denied yesterday that he is several times with brother James the mysterious "Raoul," named as in the months immediately an alleged accomplice in the assas­preceding the April 4, 1968, assas­sination of Martin Luther King Jr. sination in Memphis, Tenn. 
The House assassinations com­James Earl Ray pleaded guilty to mittee had said it appears likely the murder but then recanted his that Raoul was either Jerry Ray or confession, saying he was drawn John Ray, another brother of into the assassination plan by --a­James Earl Ray, who is serving a man he identified only as Raoul. 99-year prison term for the famed He has described a series of civil rights leader's slaying. contacts with Raoul in the months 
Nearing the conclusion of its leading to the assassination. two-year investigation, the com· During this period, James Earl 
Hunger Coalition sponsors 'Quarter Night' fund drive 
This fund is administered by the
by Kathy Rosenthal 
Latin·American Information Center (LAIS). Garvey stated the Kathleen
The World Hunger -Coalition is Neidhardt, a representative ofsponsoring "Quarter Night" next LAIS, has stated three objectivesTuesday. Maria Garvey, WHC for the fund:chairperson, explained that the 1) to encourage respect for the . special collection will be used to right of the Nicaraguan people for buy food and medicine for victims autodetermination based on theirof the Nicaraguan war. 
democratic sovereignty; The goal for next Tuesday 2) to denounce the international night's drive is one quarter per pressure and the atrocities commit· 
student. Collections wtl) be taken ted against the Nicaraguan people; in front of the Notre Dame and 3) to initiate a strong effort of Saint Mary's dining halls. Off­international solidarity with the campus students may contribute Nicaraguan people, concretely ex­
their quarters at the Volunteer pressed in money, medicine, and Services Office in La Fortune 
other basic necessities 
Student Center. 
In Nicaragua, the money will be 
Garvey said themoney will go to distributed by churches who partic­the International }'und tor Assist­ipate in the fund. according to ance to the Victims in Nicaragua. Garvey. Catholic and Lutheran 
churches are major contributors to the interfaith fund. 
'Crossroads' In addition to aiding the victims in Nicaragua. the fund also helpsseeks refugees in Honduras and Costa Rica. The National Council ofvolunteers Churches has given its backing to the fund'. which was started by Don During the past 21 year~. Opera­Sergio Mendez Arceo. Bishop of 
tion Crossroad-, Africa. Inc.. a Cuernavaca, Mexico. 
Mimi Harris. WHC member,non-profit organization focusing on said this is the first time the WHCinternational development and has taken a special collection fur a .
educational exchange, has sent certain cause.
1:1orc than 5000 volunteers (stu­Garvev commented, "1 don'tden!';. profcssion<Jis, and others) to want the WHC to get too money34 English-spcal..ing and French­oriented. but the· situation inspeaking African countrie_s to Nicaragua is so' serious that wespend their sunur.t."fs helping rural must raise money to help the warvillage communities. 
victims." She stressed that the 
Projects involve: art. oral money will be used only for food history, and~ _archaeology; ethno­and medicines, not for political musicology; agricultural develop­purposes. ment; tutoring; public health and In addition to raising money, the medicine; journalism and media WHC will continue to educate 
students about the problems indevelopment; and construction of Niclfl'agua, Garvey said. 
schools. clinics. and needed Harris said the HPC has beencommunity facilities. 
very cooperative in the project.
This unusual experience "They've been very helpful to us inprovides a brief but intense terms of informing the dorms about !mmersion in traditional and 
'Quarter Night'," she said. modern African life and pushes Harris added that next semester 
individuals to re-consider basic WHC will sponsor another "Quar­attitudes, standards, and beliefs in ter Night" for the people in relation to people with contrasting Appalachia. "Nicaragua's collec­values and life-styles. tion came first because of the urgency of their situation,'' she
Most volunteers arrange to 
said.
receive academic credit for their summer experience, and many find that they are helped into profes­sional careers in international relation, higher education and CILA members business. 
Persons interested in parti­to gather Sundaycipating in Crossroads' Summer 1979 Work/Travel/Study Program must apply immediately. Contact: CILA will hold a general meeting Crossroads Africa. Inc., 150 5th on Sunday, in the Library Lounge .Ave.. NYC. NY 10011 (212-242-at 6:45 p.m. All members are 8550). askeo to attend. 
detailed his travels from Los Angeles, to New Orleans, to Mon­treal and to Mexico. 
James Earl also told various persons along the way of various contacts with his brother, although he didn't specifv whether the contacts were with Jerry or John. The committee has CQ..mpareJ the Raoul meetings with contacts Ray had with one of his brothers. And the panel said there are some 
striking similarities. 
"When you come down to it, the Raoul theory that seems to fit is that the mysterious accomplice might actually be one of Ray's brothers, Jerry or John. or a composite of the two ofthem," said 
G. Robert Blakey, chief committee counsel. 
"It seems to be true that each point where James' movements or his funding during the fugitive period are explained by James by reference to Raoul, one of the brothers is . . . either on the scene or in contact with James," Blakey added. 
Students must 
move vehicles 
All Students vehicles parked in green field must be removed by Sunday. Students are asked to contact ND Security if they have any questions pertaining to where their vehicles should be relocated. 
NO Chorus features Franz Shubert 
The Notre Dame University Chorus will present an evening of the music of Franz Shubert at 8 
p.m. Sunday in Sacred Heart Church. The concert, part of the Notre Dame Concert Series, is open to the nuhlic without chame. A 4 p.m.-Sunday concert which in some area. calendars will not rake phce 
The University Chorus. Walter 
Ginter, director. will present its 
all-Schubert concert in honor of the 
sesquicentennial of the composer's 
death. Schubert, who lived most of 
his life in Vienna, died in 
at the age of thirty-one. 
Sunday's program features the 
Mass in G, for which Notre Dame 
music faculty .Becky Stauffer, 
Patrick Maloney, David Isele, and 
guest Marilyn Unruh will form the 
solo vocal quartet. 
The program also included the Hirtenchor (Shepherd Choir) from Schubert's incidental music to "Rosamunde" and two part songs, Der Tanz, and Des Tages Weihe. 
In his testimony under oath, contact with James Earl, including however, Jerry Ray said he a conversation the day before the believes James may have described assassination, he declared, "l 
contacts with his brother as a could not have been in all those means of avoiding any reference to places even if I was the Bionic Raoul. man." 
"Raoul is still out there," he testified. Jerry Ray appearead under a 
Frosh schedule
grant of immunity which prevents prosecution for his testimony. He had previously denied to the 'Finale' blast FBI that he saw James after his 
. brother's escape from the Missouri "The Frosh Finale" will be held State Prison on April 22, 1967. But tonight at Stepan Center from 9 yesterday, Jerry acknowledged p.m. to 1 a.m. The last bash before seeing his brother, who had exams is sponsored by the Fresh­
escaped from prison, three or four man Advisory Council and will times during the period leading to feature the Chicago band "Pipingthe assassination. Hot." Tickets are S1 and can be But when asked about allega­purchased at the door. tions that he was in frequent
r .................... . 
: FROSH FINALE i 
: / u ;\Sll~ ;\LS:
• "s'f ).J :t>fl1-" :
~ccOll FEATURING : l}pJ' ."PIPINGHOT'' • 
FROM CIDCAGO :I FRIDAY 9-1 stepan center : •. $1.00 
Umtad Art•sts : 
.. 
•· Shm1 lime --' Frida\· 7:00-9:20 • Sat. and 
llll'~()~·­
Sun. 2:0()-4:30 · 7:00 · Q:20 
!Due Kiddie Matinees .')at. and +: l-----------·------------~Sun.] _______________:_.----~~~~~~------~----·----i; ~flt(...l 
BARGAIN mATINEES SAT & SUN. AduiJi.S 
---.... 
--------------------------------------------------~------------------------------------------------------~­

........ 
-~ 
~ ~-------­
/ 
l. 
Carter vows determination to cure US inflation crisis 
WASHINGTON [AP]-President anticipate a recession or depression Carter, asserting his anti:7inflation next year." 
. program "is exactly what the A number of prominent econo­American people want," vowed mists have predicted a recession in y~sterday that he is determined to 1979 as a result of Carter's wage cure inflation even if it proves and price guidelines which would politically disastrous. generally limit wage and benefit 
Carter was asked at his nationally increases to 7 percent and price broadcast news conference increases to an average of roughly whether he would risk being a 5.75 percent.
THE 
one-term president by advocating Carter said details of his wage government actions that could and price guidelines still have not alienate many groups. been made final and that, while he "I would maintain the fight has not yet made any changes in
GENTRY SHOP 
against inflation," he said, adding his overall program, ''with a that" .. .I believe this is exactly thousand different decisions to be
Fine mens wear 
what the American people want." made, there will be some flexi­When later asked if the nation's bility." Carter also commented pub­Suits-Soortcoats economic problems meant Ameri­licly · about the deaths of moreLevi Jeans cans might have to accept a lower than '900 members of the Peoples
Sweaters 
standard of living, he said, "I see Temple Cult in Jonestown,Slacks Sweaters no reason for despair at all." Guyana saying he didn't think the . Carter· also said the mass cult "was typical in any ofColognes-Gifts Wildfire Slacks murder--suicides at Jonestown, America." liuyana, were atypical of American "I don't think we ought to have
Shirts 
life. And the President an overreaction because of the acknowledged he has been some­Jonestown tragedy by injecting what discouraged by the inability of government into trying to control 
Egypt and Israel to agree on a people's religious beliefs," Carter peace treaty. added. Of the nation's economic woes, Turning to the Middle East, 
North Village Mall 
•.;.o:;~..::::;;;;::::....::.,.....:::::.....:::......:::::.....::::....os::;..o::::......£...£......C....£.~....::::......::::...::::.....::::....'""""';.:::::;......r::::..._t.....o::::;:.~_.;:;:.......::;...:::,.,;;:=::;..:::._..L...c::....LJ<::::iiol the President said, "We don't 
Carter spoke more deliberately than at any other -point during the 30-minute session with reporters. He said that "temporary setbacks"
JON 
experienced in the Egyptian-Israeli negotiations were no more serious that those that occurred during the Camp David meetings that pro­

MAR/( 
duced a framework for future accords.
JOHNNY 
NO senior wins 

ALMOND 
'The Big Apple' 
by Paul Stauder 
o·THER PEOPLES 
The winners of WSND/ AM's "Bite the Big Apple" contest were announced this week, with Cindy Trevino of Lewis Hall claiming the 
ROOMS 
New virtuoso rock duets from Jon
Music At Home 
grand prize, a weekend vacation for 
Mark and Johnny Almond. ''The 
two in New York city. Trevino, a
City" revisited -new territory 
senior, will leave today at 10:45
Wherever lt.~s Heard. explored. 
a.m. for New York, accompanied by her roommate, Ann Schmidt, also a senior.
Horizon Music: Records and Tapes. 
"I was excited that I won," Trevino said, "but ti didn't really 
Manufactured and Distributed by A&M Records, Inc. 
hit me until about five hours after the station called me." 

Trevino looks forward to the sightseeing that the trip will offer, as well as the off-Broadway play "The Gin Game," which is in­cluded on the itinerary. , 
"We'll be staying a block away .from the World Trade Center, and we're going to call a friend when
DR.JOHN 
we get there, so we'll probably sightsee with her most of the time," Trevino added. The acco­modations provided by WSND are in the St. Moritz Hotel in Manhat­tan.
City Lights 
Trevino entered the six-week con­test by displaying a WSND door tag and listening for her room number to be announced on the air. 
Station manager Kate Bernard believed 'that the contest not only benefited the students that won 
He's Turning 'Em On 
Like Never Before. 
prizes, but the WSND/AM station as well. "It cost us quite a bit (to run the contest) but we think it was worth it because it gave more
Horizon Music: Records and Tapes. 
students a chance to get to know us, and where we are,'' Bernard
Manufactured and Distributed by A 6M Records, Inc. 
explained. 
Jim Dorgan, program director of WSND/ AM, was also pleased with the results of the contest, as it afforded the station a greater
Just ~o~ the Reco~O q1ves notA€ Oame stuOents 
a ___........._ 
listening audience. He also previewed the next sta­
10% OISCOUnt With StUOent 10. 
tion-sponsored promotion, a record album giveaway, scheduled for early next semester. "Some of us will be staying around here over 
Is theRe a Reason to qo anywheRe els€ 
Christmas to organize the give­away. In all, we'll probably give away $5000 worth of albums," Dorgan said. 
The second and ·third-place win­ners in the "Bite the Big Apple" 
~0~ you~ mUSIC? 
Just ~oR the RecoRO 
contest also won albums among their prizes. Runner-up John Feeney received 20 albums. Plitt theatre tic-kets. and a membership
Open 100 CenteR Complex phone 
to the Sports Illustrated Court Club. · Third place winner Lisa
7 bays ffiJshawaka, ln. 259-1813 
Barrett received two pizzas and 10 albums. 
~-----------------­


( 
%The Observer 
~n  independent newspaper serving  Box Q  
the  notre  dame  and  saint  mary's  Notre Dame  
community  Ind.  46556  

The Observer is published by students of the University of 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as 
possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters are the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
EDITORIAL BOARD 
Tony Pace Steve Odland John Calcutt Barb Langhenry Rosemary Mills Phil Cackley jean Powley Ann Gales , Mike Lewis Diane Wilson Rav O'Brien 
Doug Christian 
DOONESBURV by Garry Trudeau 
YOlJ lrNOII.J, ZCWK, 
MAYBE I CfJJL[) rxTAIIAMU POI.JTIC41J.Y? ONOIR 71/.ES I.JJ/U., YES, I
tr I l/X)i(J3J) 5J.PPOSE 7HAT AT THEM PO· APP!lOACJ.IIS UTICAUY.. PO$IBLE•. 
I 
Take Action! 
Dear Editor: 
Much has been written about the issues surrounding overcrowding at Notre Dame and the Off Campus Lottery in particular. Judging fr?m what has been said by the Housmg Office and the Student . Govern­ment, there hall been a definite national trend toward on campus housing for the past 3-4 years. If we can assume that there is such a trend, and it is the basic cause of our overcrowding, then the variables and options that have been available to the University to 
correct  the  situation  must  be  
examined  to  determine  if  the  
Administration is at fault.  

The possible options includ~d: building additional dorn;s:. holdmg a "tenative" lottery; buildtng tem­porary housing; and reducing en­rollment in this year's freshman class. The addition of a new dorm -would have solved the present 
problem and wuld have allowed the 
University to increase enrollment 
in the future when the trend 
reversed itsl.!lf and more people 
went off campus. Most likely, 
however, had the policy makers at 
the University seen the trend 
developing two or three years ago, 
there would have been insufficient 
OFCOIRSe, 
ro ec 6/..Ao
7D /IXJ/<.1/VTO 
IT FlRllER 
FOR. >a./. 
I 
Editor-in-Chief Managing Editor 
Executive Editor 
Executive Editor 
Editorial Editor Cor~ Editor St. Mary'sEd1tor 
News Editor News Editor News Editor Sports Editor Photo Editor 
Production Manager Business Manager Advertising Manager 
time for any action to be taken. 
Holding a tentative lottery last spring for this year's seniors, letting them know where they would stand this fall, would have eased the overcrowding but not solved the basic problem of too many students and ~oo few roo~s: Also, can you imagtne the adm~t­stration trying to silence the cnes of two classes instead of just one? 
No one would like ugly, tem­porary buildings like the aerosp~ce building, therefore, we are left wtth the only true variable that the University has to work with, enrollment. Granted the Ad­missions Dept. does not know the exact number of students who did not find a conventional room await­ing them this August indicates those in charge either lacked ~e initiative to act and correct thetr policies, or were ignorant of the statistics. 
The short-run answer, in my opinion, is to take positive action to cut enrollment, and in the long­run-let's build another dorm! I think there is enough evidence to identify who is at fault for the overcrowding, and it's not the seniors who wanted to live on campus. 
V.E. Landeck [The Businessman's Oub] 
New Perspective 
Dear Editor: 
While I was a student at Notre Dame I often wondered howmany students really took the time or had 
the motivation to read the "Scho­lastic". This do~~t stills plagues my mind, and after reading the article written by Patricia Martinez in the October 6th issue, I wish that I was wrong in having that feeling. Having been a foreign student, I 
share  the  feelings  Patricia  
expressed in that article:  "Thanks  
to  my  exposure  to  a  different  
culture  I  learned  new  ways  of  

approaching the different aspects of life. Moreover, I also gained a new perspective on my own native values.'' 
Furthermore, I wish all your readers could understand why Ms. Martinez says that the solutions to the internal problems of our coun­tries do not lie in the adoption of the "American lifestyle". Change and progress can only be brought about through respect of the national background; reflection; experience and understanding. 
I feel 1 was very lucky in being able to attend Notre Dame, and living such an enriching experi· ence. In the same way, I wish that all the Notre Damestudentswho are offered a chance of studying abroad would take advantage of this opportunity. The learning obtained through studying and living in a different country and culture can't be equaled. One is able to understand and compare the essen­tial characteristics of each culture, of each lifestyle; one learns more about one's home country; one is drawn to reflection about oneself, about people, about countries and cultures. This international experi­ence broadens one's insights and perspectives. Moreover, it helps you mature and grow as a person. 
Once again I want to publicly congratulate Patricia Martinez on her accurate insights. Moreover, I wish to invite the Notre Dame students to share these interna­tional experiences and outlooks, both by going on the foreign study programs and by sharing the experiences and thoughts of the many foreign students that are now 
.at Notre Dame. Patricia Leon 
Support Appreciated 
Deu Editor: 
My family and I cannot ade­quately express out gratitude to the Notre Dame students, faculty, and administration four the concern they showed during my recent hospitalization. The masses, prayers, and countless thoughful gestures assured me of a complete and successful recovery. I am overwhelmed by the support I received and am looking forward to returning to Carroll Hall soon. Besides, the novelty of watching "Leave It To Beaver" has worn off! Thanks to all for being #1 in expressing compassion and caring for others. 
BWKolb 
Special Thanks to Seniors 
Deu Editor: 
We would like to extend our deepest feelings of gratitude to all 876 seniors who participated in the Sr. Class Trip ~o Los Angeles ~his past week. Your patience. cooperation, and enthusiasm was unbehev~ble: (Boy was it unbelievable!) Everyone of you should feel a sense of pnde tn kno~ing that, because of you, this trip was a huge. success. The hotel employees, along with the National Car Rental and a1rport personnel had nothing but praise for the trip members, and,we feel ~he same! . 
-Now that the trip has come and gone and we re back tn South Bend wtth all the memories of the new friends we made, the places we went, and the beer we quaffed; we hope you can say this was ~ne of your !fiOSt memorable experiences in the last four years. Desptte th«: someti~es harsh tones and impatient moods we may have displayed at times d~nng the planning andorganizationofthis trip, we both agree that we'd do tt all again if we had to--but we won't. · 
A special thank you goes to the senior officers. and cou~cil members of both schools for their effort, and to our co-chatrmen Mike Gordon and Karen Lowery for their hard work, with which we couldn't of d~n~ without. Also, we'd like to thank John Reid and Mary Laverty for helpmg us keep our heads straight throughout the entire ordeal. (You two are the greatt"stl) And a very special debt of gratitude is owed to Sandy Thomu and Annette Sundham, who by typing da~ir very fingers to the bonE, k,:pt us constantly informed. . . . 
Again, we ar¢'reciate your <.'UOperation and understanding wtth the entire trip, and hope you had a~ rnuch fun as we did! 
Tenov Comgan 1: Usa Morel Senior Trip Chairpersons 
the observer Friday, December 1, 1978 
letters to a lonely God 
The Faith of Our Fathers 
The truth about Baptist churches is that you don't expect their architecture to be eternal. In a Baptist church, you don't expect that the pulpit with its Bible, the Communion table with its empty cross engraved with lilies, . · the baptistery that accomodates total immersions, and the preacher's chair tufted in velvet have been arranged into positions that they will keep for a thousand years or more. Baptist don't have a tabernacle, of course. If they did have a tabernacle, no Baptist would be surprised to find it as free-floating as a hymnbook which gets turned in for updating every other generation. Baptist churches never stress that their modest arches and steeples belong to a tradition of faith which is built on a rock more prevailing than the gates of hell. Baptists expect to survive, I suppose, until the Second Coming of the Lord, and they expect their Bibles to survive with them; but they aren't in the business of building cathedrals that can shelter Quasimodo, and their crypts are not intended to be burial places for the bones of the Apostles. B~ptist churches may come; Baptist churches may go; only their mortgages are expected to endure forever. 
Today, the tabernacle was moved in the Keenan-Stanford chapel from the main under the Mestrovic crucifix, to a 
wooden column occupying a space at the 
left of the chapel where the side altars used 
to be. The tabernacle looks fine in its new 
location. and the move was in the spirit of 
the new liturgy; why, then, did I feel like 
crying? 
"It's not the tabernacle that is out of place," } thought, "it's the priest that is out of place, and out of a time when he really understands or appreciates change." Oh God, I love the beauty of thy house , but sometimes I think I loved it better in the days when nothing ever seemed to change, and our youngest tradition was a millenium old. 
Do you remember the smell of incense and melting wax that Catholic churches used to have? Those were the days when there were always candles burning in red cups on racks before the Blessed Virgin's altar. On Friday nights and Sunday nights, Catholics would sing the Tantum Ergo and the 0 Salutarls as the priest swung the censer billowing smoke before the Blessed Sacrament exposed in the golden mon­strance, placed in a position of honor on the main altar. For hours afterward, the church would smell with an odor that was uniquely Catholic, and as holy as the Divine Praises that the priest and the people recited in remembrance of the blessed mysteries of their Catholic faith. 
Do you remember how you would kneel 

()l~f()~~A~(I
'*********************************************j
()li (i}IT1()U§ 
"All Over"; December 1,2,3,6,7,8,9. 8 pm. O'Laughlin Auditorium. The ND -SMC Theater performs Edward Albee's look at life and death, Umlted seating will be available, so call 284-4176 for reservations. $2 admission. 

Keenan Hall Review; December 1,2. 8 pm. Washington Hall. Keenan Hall's annual variety show with exceptional campus talent makes its return. Definitely worth the time. Besides, you may know someone in the performance. 
Notre Dame Unlvenlty Cborus;; December 
3. 4, 8 pm. Sacred Heart Church. 
()ff £CIIll()U§. 
"When You Comln' Back, Red Ryder?"; December 1,2,8,9. 8:15pm. Northside Hall Main Theatre, IUSB. Call 237-4396 for reservations. Sl admission. 
Vegetable Buddies; This week--December 1, Mesa, the debut performance at VB's by this Chicago-based rock band; December 2, Ouray, Chicago's top-rated country-rock band; December 6, 7 The Blues Twlsten, an eight-member blues band with a female vocalist; December8,9, Jump'n the Saddle Band, a country swing band. 
********************-*************************': 
§()()~IS
**************x****************************** 
Basketball[men]; ND vs. Valparaiso. December 2, 1:30 pm. ACC ND vs Rice. December 4, 8 p.m. ACC. ND vs Northwestern. December 6, 8 pm. ACC. 
Hockey; ND vs Wisconsin. December 8,9. 
7:30 pm. ACC. 
-~rclwlll~·~ '/'' 

Reverend Robert Griffin 
in your pew on a Saturday night. awaiting your turn to go to confession? It was never easy, and you'd be afraid that you would forget your sins, or not confess them clearly enough. It was no good not to be clear about your sins, because then you'd have to go back and confess them another time until you were sure the priest understood how bad you had been, and you could worthily receive absolution. But after the embarrassment, after the whis­pered dialogue, after the penance had been given, and the words of forgiveness were said, how beautifully free you would feel; how worthy to receive God in Holy Communion. If trucks struck you down in the street and killed you, it didn't matter, because you were in a state of grace, and ready to be taken into heaven to meet the Blessed Mother who would present you to her Son, the Sacred Heart of Jesus. 
Remember how, at midnight, the fast from food and water would begin so that you could receive the holy wafer that was Christ Himself? If you woke up in the morning, famished and thirsting, you wouldn't eat or drink, even if you had to wait until after the one o'clock Mass. If your mouth were as dry as broken pottery, you would offer it up to Jesus, who said: "Sitio"--"1 thirst" as He hung from his arms on the cross. 
Remember how, on Friday, yoil would 
**************···· 
()II £()Ill()U§ 
The Three Musketeen; December 1, 7,9,11 pm. Engineering Auditorium. Starring Michael Caine, Raquel Welch. An excellent spoof of the Alexander Dumas novel. For the $1 admission, the movie should be taken in. 

.___,.~ ·=--..._.,_;::_--.."-'""'...---/Newton-John sings better than anyone I 
· ·  
·  .  ·  g  ·  ·  ·  
\~  P~.  
~  C{J  
Creature  From  the  Black  Lagoon;  
December  2,3.  7,9,11  pm.  Engineering  

~-~ ~: 
Auditorium. I've never seen this classic horror flick, but from what friends and critics say, they don't make movies like this one anymore. $1 admission. The Goodbye Girl; December 8,9. 7,9,11 pm. Engineering Auditorium. Starring Richard Dreyfuss, Marsha Mason. Dreyfuss is hilarious as an out-of-work actor, Mason is weepy throughout the whole show, and the ever-present kid is another smart-aleck. 
never eat meat? Even if you wanted bacon or a hamburger, you wouldn't eat meat. You were proud of yourself because you were a Catholic, and Catholics didn't eat meat on Friday unless it was Christmas, or the Fourth of July and the Bishop gave you a wonderful permission called a dispen­sation. How exciting it was to be dispensed; how special it made you feel to be dispensed so that you could eat the same food on Friday that Protestants regularly ate on Fridays, and that Catholics ate on other days unless it happened to be Ash Wednesday or one of the ember days. 
Looking back, I sometimes wonder if it's possible for a church to lose its innocence? 
I guess one should not be upset when a tabernacle is changed from its traditional place. The only irony is, in the Baptist church I loved as a child, nothing has been changed--unless it's a light bulb--in over forty years. That church looks absolutely the same now as it did on the night I was baptized back in 1939. In that Baptist church, more than any place else, I can put myself in touch with a lost childhood of faith. 
Obviously, all the loss of innocence has been my own. 
But does not the church lose something that is holy as it moves from its ancient practices into the liturgy's renewal? 

()li*£7irniu§**** 
Hooper; Boiler House Flixl. Starring Burt Reynolds. It's probably Reynold's best effort as director and star, plus the stunts he does make the movie even better. Magic; Scottsdale Mall. Starring Anthony Hopkins, Ann-Margaret, Burgess Meredith, Ed Lauter. "A horrifying love story" reads the ad. I don't know about the iove story. but if the movie is anything like the book, then it will be horrifying. Animal House; Town & Country I. Starring John Belushi. It's a little cold for toga parties, and Belushi is getting a little old. Maybe this one should move to the great movie house in the sky. Grease; Town & Country II. Starring John Travolta, Olivia Newton-John. Needless to 
~ say, Travolta is my fave actor and 
·· can _think of. At leas~ the m'!sic is still playmg on the AM radto; I don t know all the words yet. lq_terlon; Forum Ill. Starring Richard Jordan, Diane Keaton, E.G. Marshall, Geraldine Page, Maureen Stapleton. Woody Allen has received nothing but critical praise for his first venture into the world of serious matter. My mother didn't like it, but she went to Purdue. Watershlp Down; River Park. An animated version of Richard Adams' novel that most reviews say gets Adams' point across without butchering the book. The animation has also received praise because of the animators' refusal to make the rabbits do anything (except talk and think) that real rabbits can't do. 
***R3~*1£fid*[)~t?i*l*4)*********

*************~*****************************,
Sam Chatmon. 
"Christmas Eve on Sesame Street"; December 3, 9 pm. In the midst of Christmas Eve, Big Bird is presented with a difficult riddle: how does Santa Claus get down all those skinny, little chimneys? The entire cast joins Big Bird for this holiday musical. "An Evening with Cbuck Mangione"; December 4, 9 pm. Called "The Happy Honker'' by Newsweek, Mangione brings his flugelhorn and quartet to W01f Trap for a concert that highlights their original blend of jazz, ballad, and pop. "The Many Faces of Love"; December 5, 9 pm. The famed acting duo of Hume Cronyn and Jessica Tandy hlend a light-hearted montage of the little wars waged between men and women. In terse quips, poetry,. and prose, they draw upon the works of Benjamin Franklin, Ogden Nash, Dorothy Parker, and James Thurber. "Good Momin' Blues"; December 5, 10 pm. Mississippi native B.B. King narrates this look into the Missis.>ippi Delta roots of today's country and rhythm and blues sound. Music of 18 Mississippi blues performers is features, including tunes of Houston Stackhouse, Furry Lewis, and 

Friday, December 1, 1978 tba observer 
7 

The Irish Extra  
Ten lettermen return for Irish by Paul Mullaney schedule in the country could say that. fact that we should get to the final four," foul-shooting as a team. And lastly, we Assistant Sports Editor And this year's schedule will help us do stresses the eighth-year Irish mentor. have to realize that we can't have that the same as far as any tourney prepara­"You're going to see more teams like complacency of automatically appearing tion is concerned." Fullerton State making it now." in the final four."Notre Dame basketball fans last year Indeed it will, as the Irish pack their "But we have three basic items of For now the Irish can worry aboutwitnessed the high point of Irish cage bags for games at UCLA (as early as next improvement we're working on at the Valparaiso, Rice (Monday night) andsuccess, as Coach Digger Phelps' quin­Saturday). Kentucky (Louisville), Mar­beginning of the season. First we have Northwestern (Wednesday), but in atet captured the NCAA Midwest Region­quette, Maryland, North Carolina State, to concentrate on our clock situations. week they'll be bumping heads with theal title and gained Notre Dame's West Virginia, DePaul and Michigan We have to have total awareness out on best of them, and Irish fans may get anfirst-ever berth in the prestigious final (Pontiac Silverdome). Cm.Jple that with a. the court at all times. idea of whether or not they will indeedfour. home slate which features such powers "Secondly, we have to work on our. be able to settle for the 1978-79 cagers. But Notre Dame fans, being what they as San Francisco and South Carolina, letare, probably won't settle for anything alone a rematch with UCLA, and rt wouldless than last year's accomplishments, drive most coaches crazy.as the Irish return 10 lettermen from a But Phelps has no regrets of facing ayear ago, including eight of the team's schedule like that with the likes of Kellytop 10 scorers and nine of the top 11 Tripucka, Tracy jackson, Rich Branning,rebounders. Bill Laimbeer, etc., etc., returning to All reason enough for Phelps to be give the Irish what is perhaps the bubbling with exuberant anticipation of deepest squad in the nation. With the what could be another banner year for addition of freshman guard Mike the Irish? Not necessarily. Mitchell, the Irish should be ready to "You have to realize that no team has show what they are made of tomorrow as made back-io-back appearances in the they open the season against Valparaiso final four in the last four seasons," notes at the ACC. Phelps, the only collegiate coach to claim "We'll just have to see who'll pick upfive straight post-season tourney bids the slack," commented Phelps on the heading into the new season. loss of last year's co-captains, Dave "It keeps you rather humble. You've Batton and Don "Duck" Williams. got to go out and get your 20 wins to get "We're really going to miss Batton and the bid." Williams. They did a lot for us Twenty victories will not be an easy offensively ,shooting-wise. task for the Irish, as they face what again "We've got a lot of experience coming is perhaps the toughest schedule in the back, though, so we didn't recruit country, including an away-from-home heavily because we have a lot of slate that is nearly suicidal. freshmen from a year ago, and they all "Our road schedule is more toned deserve to play.,. toward NCAA play than ever before," And they all will play, as Phelps will emphasizes Phelps. "They'll all be like shuttle at least 10 players in and out of tourney games, with those certain the lineup regularly--hoping that the conditions. team peaks in time for the March "Last year we scheduled 13 teams that post-season play. took part in post-season play. No other "We can't get complacent about the Freshman Mitchell brings 24 -carat record to ND by Frank LaGrotta squad to a 23-4 record. From the field he Sports Writer was accurate 62 percent of the time and he shot 81 percent from the line.. He Mike Mitchell is just like any other averaged eight assists and five rebounds Notre Dame freshman; he's learning. per contest. In one game, the classy guard scored 55 points by drilling 21 ofAh, the weather's not that bad, but, 26 shots from the floor and 13 of 14 free then again, the food's not that good. throw attempts. Just one week before,Farley's the one next to the North Dining he had popped in 23 of 28 field goalHall, right? And the Golden Dome's not attempts and six of eight from the linereally gold ... is it? for a 52-point performance. Don't worry, he'll catch on. By this His list of post-season honors is as time next year, he'll probably be an old impressive as his stats. It's highlighted pro ... even be able to tell you when the by his selection to Scholastic Coach's Irish last dropped three home football All-America team and by the plaque games in a row. Looks like this Mitchell that says Mike Mitchell was Northern kid's a fast learner. California's Player of the Year in 1977-78.Digger Phelps is betting on it. That's why he made the 6-3 guard from San He comes to Notre Dame with a The Fighting Irish will be looking to Kelly Tripucka to provide the scoring punch for Bruno, CA, his top recruit last 24-carat record, and an attitude that's this year's squad. [photo by John Calcutt]year. In fact, Mike Mitchell is the only solid gold. freshman on the squad who's here on "I want to contribute, to help the team scholarship. Pretty high stakes, huh? win," he says quietly. "I've played both You might s<w the pressure's on. point guard and shooting guard and I But that's the way Mitchell wants it. think I can play either position here. Sophomore trio bolsters "That's why I decided to come to Coach Phelps' system is such that Notre Dame," the friendly, blond-haired everyone has a specific role to fill and I rooked points out. "I knew there were a am more than willing to do whatever he lot of talented ballplayers here and I wants me to do." Notre Dame frontcourt Mitchell, who says the only thing herealized I'd have to work my tail off if I doesn't like about Notre Dame is being by Craig Chval the preseason publicity after an out­wanted to get to play. But I know that if I away from home, has found the adjust­Sports Writer standing freshman season capped whendo play well, I'll get my chance because ment to college life difficult but reward­he was named MVP of the MideastCoach Phelps uses quite a few players ing. Although Notre Dame's roundballers Regional last March. during a game. are rated third in the nation heading into But for sheer electricity, anybody"In high school, I wasn't the greatest''I'm going to do whatever I have to do tomorrow's opening game against Val­would be hard-pressed to match Tri­student in the world but I did prettyto make myself the best player I can be." paraiso, the skeptics abound. well," he recalls. "The biggest · pucka's counterpart at starting forward, Digger isn't worried. difference between high school and Can Stan Wilcox play the point guard? Orlando Woolridge. The most im­"Mike Mitchell is the player we college is that you have to study if you're Can Rich Branning make the transition pressive testimonial to Woolridge's im­wanted last year," he emphasizes. "He going to stay around. It's tough making from point guard to shooting guard? Will provement in a year's time is who he has is smart, qurck and he can make things the adjustment just like it's tough either Bill Laimbeer or Bruce Flowers had to contend with for that startinghappen on the court. It will take time for learning a whole new system of basket­provide the Irish with consistent play in role-namely Tracy Jackson. him to learn our system,. but he gets ball at practice. But I'd have to say that I the pivot? The 6-5 native of Silver Springs,better every day. like college much better than high In fact, the only area of Digger MD, is perhaps Notre Dame's "He'II definitely help us this season. school." Phelps' eighth Notre Dame squad that finest all-around player. As Phelp.s' He can ·do it!" He says that before he made his final hasn't come under fire is the forwards. says, "He's going to be one of out Digger could be right because decision to attend Notre Dame he had And with good reason. Because a trio of bread-and-butter pla'fers. '' Mitchell certainly "did it" in high narrowed his choices down to here and sophomores will give Notre Dame a Tripucka, an explosive player under school. The former prep All-American San Francisco. He credits an Irish­frontcourt the equal of any in the nation. the basket, down plays the significance of averaged 31.8 points per game for Catholic family and a patented Digger The squad's leading returning scorer, preseason publicity, both for the team Capuchino High School and led the [continued on page 8] Kelly Tripucka, has received the bulk of · [continued on IN&e 9]  

-~. ~ ' ~· -;;.•.•• ..·-:.~>.'. 


junior Rich Branning returns as anchorman for the Notre Dame backcourt. [photo by john Calcutt] 
----~------------------------------------------------------------~..
\. 1 
Friday, December 1, 1978 the observer 
The Irish Extra 
Two new walk -ons join Phelps' squad 
. by Mark Perry Assistant Sports Editor 
The walk-on is a special breed. Unlike the scholarship athletes, the walk-on plays for no other benefits than the enjoyment of the game. In most cases, the duty of the walk-on is to prepare the starting team for a game by playing the opponent in practice. Then on game day, he sits on the sidelines waiting for the score to build up so he can get in the game
But for the walk-ons of the Notre Dame basketball team, this task is a pleasant one. Playing for one of the top teams in the nation makes the job worthwhile. 
"It's quite an ·experience playing with some of the best players in the country here at Notre Dame," commented Tim Healy, who is entering his third year as a walk-on player. "I wasn't really heavily recruited in high school, and didn't expect to be playing anywhere, especial­ly at Notre Dame. Also, this year I will be traveling with the team to the away games, going to places I've never seen." 
Healy, an architecture major from Ft. Lauderdale, FL, came to Notre Dame after an active athletic career at Cardinal Gibbons High School, where he partici­pated in track, football, and basketball, serving -a captain for the cagers in his junior and senior years. 
Traveling with the team and participa­ting in practice are not the only exciting parts of Healy's experience at Notre Dame. Since coming to Notre Dame, the 6-1 junior guard has played in 24 games, scoring eight points for a hefty 0.3 average. 
When Healy does get into a game, it can provide some memorable experi­ences. "I can still remember when I scored my first points in my freshman year," said Healy, who was a member of the legendary SWAT squad at that time. 
As Notre Dame's most experienced walk-on, Healy,also realizes his respons­ibilities to the team. "Since this is my third year, I know what is expected, what my role on the team is," Healy ' continued. "The walk-ons get along really well, and we realize what is in store for this team, and we'll do anything we can to heIp out." 
"We need to respect each other and try and do the best that we can. Because the better we play in practice, the more prepared the starters are, because they can point out their weaknesses. If we didn't play our best, the team might not play their best." 
Another Irish walk-on comes from a famous Notre Dame family. Kevin Hawkins, a 6-0 sophomore guard, is the some of former Irish great Tom Hawk­ins. 
Kevin's father had a pretty impressive record in his career at Notre Dame from 1957-1959. "Hawk," who currently serves as a color commentator for Notre Dame and other college basketball games, ranks third on the all-time scoring list for Irish basketball, and is the top rebounder in Notre Dame history. Tom, who averaged 23 points a game over his career, served as captain in the 1958-59 season, and was a two-time All-American. 
But Kevin said that what his father did has little effect on what he is doing. "There has been no pressure from my father. He hasn't pushed me at all, even about coming to Notre Dame. I guess he used a little reverse psychology. But I am my own person, and I have my own path to make." 
Hawkins, a psychology major from Los Angeles, already has a pretty impressive path behind.him. He served as captain for the basketball and volleyball teams at Loyola High School, and was ev~n recruited by Loyola (Marymount) in California for volleyball. "But that was a little close to home," Hawkins added, "and the Notre Dame mystique probably drew me out here." 
· A~though Hawkins couldn't make the team last year, he showed some of his ability in last year's Bookstore tourney. Playing for "Green Popcorn," which. also featured center Gil Salinas, Hawk­ins was selected to the all-tournament squad and caught the eye of coach Digger Phelps. This year, Phelps found a spot for Kevin on the team, and Hawkins is glad to be there. 
Like Healy., Hawkins is aware of his duty for the team. "Digger made it clear at the tryouts in September that we probably wouldn't play much, but that we should help out in practice the best we can and be ready to play when someone is hurt or for other reasons." 
The third Notre Dame walk-on this 
year is also one of two freshmen on the 
squad. Marc Kelly, who hails from La 
Crescenta, CA, is rather small for a 
basketball player at 5-10, but apparently 
is not lacking in ability. 
Kelly was a double-figure scorer at Crescenta Valley High School, scored 37 points in one game, and was selected to the all-Pacific League team in his senior year. These are some pretty impressive accomplishments for someone who play­ed in the shadow of Greg Goorjian, Kelly's teammate at Crescenta Valley and one of the top prep guards in the country. 
"It was really hard for me, because Greg and I were best friends," said Kelly about his talented teammate. "He was the standout on the team, and playing with him I couldn't take as many shots or do everything that I wanted to." 
Goorjian nearly came to Notre Dame, but decided to stay closer to home at Arizona State. But the two friends stay in touch. "We talked just last week about playing each other sometime," Kelly said. "I would love the opportuni­ty, expecially in the playoffs." 
Kelly missed the state playoffs (where his team advanced to the semi-finals) in his senior year because of a knee injury, and was not recruited. But Phelps did recruit him as a walk-on. Then, after playing for the California summer lea­gue, he got .some offers from Montana, Montana State, and Utah State, but the Irish already had him and it looks like he is here to stay. 
In addition to his athletic talents, 
[continued from page 7] and himself. "You shouldn't let that kind of stuff bother you," says the 6-7 product of Essex Falls, NJ. "It doesn't prove anything--you've got to got out and perform on the court." Tripucka did just that as a freshman, scoring at an 11.7 clip a. d shooting a remarkable .571 from the floor. He was also NBC-TV's most Valu;,_ble Player in Notre Dame's 65-59 come-from-behind victory over.Marquette. • Woolridge, on the other hand, comes into the new season with a reputation as a crowd-pleaser and little else. But as Phelps points out, ''Orlando has made tremendous progress in the past seven weeks. His confidence in both himself and in the system has improved a great deal." A cousin of former New York Knicks great Willis Reed, Woolridge would like to change his image. "I like to dunk when the opportunity arises, and I 
Kelly also has some Hollywood experi­ence. He has a role in the movie "Fast Break," which should be released in February. Kelly, along with Ray Townsend of UCLA, Bernard King of Tennessee and the New Jersey Nets, and some other players are featured in the film, which stars Gabe Kaplan of "Welcome Back, Kotter." 
"Jim Herrick, the assistant coach at UCLA, is technical director for the film," said Kelly. "I got to know him pretty well when he came to some of our games and he offered me a part in the movie. I got a speaking part and made $600 for six days' work. It was really a nice experience." 
Kelly admits that "sometimes I am disappointed," about his role on the team, "but Digger has an obligation to the scholarship athletes. I just hope I· can break into the lineup sometime while I'm here." 
This is the dream of any walk-on, to be good enough to make the starting lineup. 
With the talented array of players· at Notre Dame this year, the Irish walk-ons probably won't realize their dream. But if the desire of the starters is anything like that of these three young men, we can expect nothing but solid performan­ces from the lrisfl this year. 
.sophomore trio 
realize that I can fill an Important role by getting the crowd motivated, but I'd like to become known as a good all-around player." 
While Woolridge strives to reach his goal, in the eyes of many, his teammate jackson is already there. A heady ballplayer, jackson has shown the ability to score from anywhere on the floor. 
"I like to be able to mix up my game," explains Jackson. "Depending on the situation, I'll go outside or maybe take my man to the basket." 
Considered by many as Notre Dame's top scoring threat, it seems odd that Jackson will open the season coming off the bench. "That's up to the coach," shrugs Jackson. "He expects certain people to be able to fill certain roles when they are called upon. All that I can do is be ready." 
But it seems regardless of whom Phelps pencils as starters he won't have to do too much worrying about his forward situation.
====Ray O'Brien=====================::=:::=::;:;:;:;::====::::=::::========:==============================================================:====================================:============================================================================================================================================:=:::::===:=================:====:===:========:=================================:== 
'78-'79all-opponent team . 
=======================================================================================~========================~======================:::=:===========:=============================================:::=========================================:============= lr1sh Eye:=: 
Because Notre Dame's basketball team plays one of the tou_ghest schedules in the country, they inevitably run into some of the brightest stars in college basketball. This year is no exception as the opponent list reads like a Who's Who with several players destined for All­America honors. Here are some of the players to watch this season, and what an all-star team they would make. 
GUARDS: Last year Kentucky won the national championship but four starters graduated from that team. Neverthe­less, as long as Kyle Macy is around they will be a threat to anyone. Macy made the difference in fast year's Wildcat­Fighting Irish clash. The 6-3 playmaker shocked Irish coaches with his outside shooting saving Kentucky's 73-68 win. In the quarter and semi-finals of the NCAA tourney he led second half come-from-behind victories that finally 
• brought him the attention he deserved. An intelligent player, Macy averaged 
12.5 ppg last season but will be called on to shoot more often. Also a good driver, Kyle doesn't miss from the charity line if you foul him. As Macy goes, so go the Wildcats. 
Roy Hamilton is the highest scoring guard in UCLA history since Gail Goodrich in 1964. The left-handed speedster is probably the best driving guard in college basketball. It was once said that this Verbun Dei grad couldn't hit the outside shot, but Hamilton proved the skeptics wrong averaging 
17.2 ppg last year. The Bruin offense revolves around Hamilton's every move. The fast-break artist led the PAC 8 last year in assists with 167. This will be the ninth year in a row that Hamilton teams ' up with his buddy David Greenwood. 
FORWARDS: David Greenwood is probably_,. the best basketball player Digger Phelps' team will see this year. The other half of the Hamilton to Greenwood combo, David averaged 17.5 ppg for an awesome Bruin squad that ran away with the conference champion­ship and lost only three games overall (two to Notre Dame). Greenwood's act earned him a consensus All-American spot. The 6-9 forward led the PAC 8 with a 11.4 rebounding average. His jump shot is deadly and with improvement on defensive skills he will be one of the hottest pro prospects by season's end. 
Albert K~g was the lone bright spot on a dismal Maryland team last year. Despite enormous pressure as the biggest basketball name coming out of high school, King managed 13.6 ppg on a team that didn't like to pass. The troublemakers are gone so expect King to take his throne as the leader of the Terps. This 6-6 forward can do it all and did ·against the irish last season even though his team lost 69-54. He is an unselfish player that has few weaknes­ses. Many people forget he is only a sophomore because of all the advanced publicity he got. With some of the cameras pointing in other directions, King should really get his act together in 1978-79. 
CENTER: There are a few good centers in college basketball this year, but 7-1, 225-pound Bill Cartwright is sure to dominate. Many people claim that Cartwright has not performed up to his potential, but nevertheless, he averaged 
20.6 ppg and is a sure bet All-American. With All-Americans Winford Boynes and James Hardy out of the way, Cartwright will be the Dons' whole attack. This may turn the big man into the superstar everyone expected him to be. 
SECOND TEAM: The fine line between the best and second best is so thin that debate is inevitable. Irish fans are familiar with Davidson's John Gerdy. A long-range bomber, Gerdy·s 25.8 ppg average was eighth best in the nation. 
:·,e honorable mention All-American d1cked on an amazing 54 percent from the floor. Oliver Mati:k is not so familiar a name but not because of lack of talent. The guard from East Carolina was fourth in the NCAA m scoring averaging 28 ppg as a junior. Lowes Moore cannot be left off this list after the inspiring 40-point performance against ND last year. Moore finished the year with a 21.3 ppg average and his jumping ability makes him an instant crowd pleaser. 
At forward, Phil Hubbard and Hawk­
eye Whitney get the nod. Hubbard sat out last year due to a knee injury but is one of the most glamorous players around with definite pro potential. He is one of the reasons that ND' s finale against Michigan should be a barn burner. Whitney was impressive against Notre Dame last year. The power forward tallied 15.3 ppg last year and leads a talented Wolfpack team in 1978-79. Also, keep an eye on Mar­quette's Bernard Toone who has shown -that he has the talent, if the inspiration is 
there. 
Larry Gibson, a teammate of King's at Maryland, is the backup center. Gibson averaged only 10.6 ppg, put his rebound­ing and shot-blocking ability make him a dominant force around the basket. 
•
HONORABLE MENTION: Jim Paxson-
Dayton, JoJ o \\'alters-Manhattan, Mike 
McGee-Michigan, Clyde Austin-N.C. 
State, Ernie Hill and Allen Leavaii-Okla­
ooma City, and Jim Graziano-South 
Carolina at guards. 
At forward are: Mike Brooks-La 
Salle, Alex Bradley-Villanova and Elbert 
Darden-Rice. 

10 the observer Friday, December 1, 1978 

FRIDAY 
SATURDAY 
~;WEDNESDAY
MtlNDAY tUESDAY 
THURSDAY 
DECEMBER 15 
DECEMBERl6 
DECEMl}J3~ 13 DECEMBER 19 
DECEMBER20 
DECEMBER21 

UMWF 
8MWF 
11M 
SM 
8W
HW 
Sf .•. ·
tt:F1•·>
.·.·•l'U;;tHt · PUYSl27 
EO ··126 ENOL 113 
ARcll144 
MET 225 
...
lTTJ 2'IT4 
EG 328 lTU 2ttJ 
41T6 
SMC: lTH 2TH 4TU 
8TT10 ROTC 
4TH 
BTU 
8THSMC: 
Govt 151, 152 
EnLt 407 
MODL 100 Level FS 180BIOL 101 
MLFR 203AF; 241 
ENOL 109CHBM 115 
MLSP 241 HUM 185EASC 101, 111 
EASC 141 PHYS 221PHYS 111, 201 
EG 226 
BA 340
UNSC 101, 111 
Mark 374 
SMC: SMC: FIN 372 
Math 102, 104, MJFr 101 SMC: 
105, 114, 115 MJFr 111: 64, 65 Bio 103 
HuSt 463 
EnWr 315, 316 Milt 101 
2MWF 3MWF SMWF 2MW4 3M SM 2M 3W sw 2W 3F SF 2F PSY 111 PHYS 210 HIST 112 EASC 141L SMC: CHEG240 Art 141 
8:00a.m. to 
10:00 a.m. 
10:30 a.m. to 
12:30 p.m. 
1:45 p.m. 
to 3:45p.m. 
4:15p.m. to 6:15p.m. 
9MWF BIOL 103 9M\V11 EG 121 9M 9W 9F 
9TI11 9TU 
9TH 
GOVT 141 
MATH 100 Level MGT 461, 463 CE 440 SMC: Hist 101: 61 & 63 Hist 201: 63 & 64 HuSt 323 
4MWF SMC: 4MW6 1-IuS1 300 4M Phi1300 4W Phil 110 4F Phil 114 Phil 101 Phil 118 lOMWF tUST 113 10MW12 CHEG 353 
10M lOW lOF 
101Tl2 lOTU lOTH llTU 11TH 
ANTH 109 ART 151 HIST 115 SOC 100 Level Phys 141 EG 334 FIN 360 SMC: EnLt 100. 101 EnLt 103: 62,63,64 
65, 67, 68 
1MWF 
JMW3 
1M 
1W 
IF 
CHEM 1151 
---·--7-:JOj).-m-. -----+r:E;-r;G-,2"'3'6--------+-::M--:-A-::-'T;;:;;H,.-.:;2"'25'..----------1-;E=:G:::---.,.,12::::0:-, -=-32::-1:------------h-...-=,.,...-,~-----+-­
MGT  231  CHEG 443  
to  BA 234  MARK 231  ECON 223  CHEM 223L  ACCT 221  
9:30 p.m.  SMC:  SMC:  SMC:  SMC:  CHEM 223  
BuEc 201  BuEc 251  BuEc 252  BuEc 312  SMC:  
Educ 301  Nurs 201  Chern 155, 211  RISt 251  BuEc 221  
RISt 226  

Finals Got You Worried? 
Re ax at 
Corby's 
Attitude Adjustment Party 
Friday 3 pm-7 pm 
Cans (except Mich) 3 Drafts-sl.OO 60 4 ea. 
Th·-=-·tiON 
t ~~SAlE 

Dooc.H llon•unlll5pm 
Lofcwtune81-~ (...... lobby ~We) 

..~.,uu..rr~.c.. .......-. 
1()~1()1-11 
Mixed Drinks '75-sl.OO 
Chet Grant & Dan Devine of Before Rockne at Notre Dame 
( 19.95 clothbound) 
. 
will autograph your copy 
Library
Lounge 7-9 p.m. 

Various considerations9 influence final examination time scheduling 
by Mike Shields StaH Reporter 
Two primary considerations in­forming a final exam schedule are an even distribution of tests over the examination period and a systematic rotation of examination dates, according to Richard Sulli· van, University registrar. 
Sullivan said he follows a set of guidelines which were established several years ago when setting up the schedule. The guidelines insure satisfactory exam dates and times for both students and faculty. 
Before the present system was established, exams for certain de­partments were always held on the same day. Under the new system, however, exams are rotated each semester. An exam period sched­uled for the last day of this semester's schedule, for example, would be scheduled on the first day of next semester's schedule, with all other exams moving back one day. 
Sullivan called the system "an obviously equitable process," but noted that it "may not be as obvious to the students" as to the faculty. 
In formulating the exam sched­ule, Sullivan consults Saint Mary's Registar Sr. Francesca Kennedy, the Freshman Year of Studies Office, the asistant deans of the four colleges, and Fr. Joseph Walter, the advisor for pre-profes­sional students. Together, they try to avoid scheduling conflicts and concentrations of exams. Sullivan is especially careful to schedule one exam a day for freshman. 
"We are reallv concerned with undue concentrations,''' Sullivan said. "Students can't prove their ability under the circumstances. We do try to spread the exams out." 
The exam schedule is prepared between advance regis1ration and final registration, Sullivan said. The preliminary achedule is avail­able at the time of final regis1ra· tion. 
To avoid diffi~ult concentrations of exams sullivan asks department chairmen to check the preliminary schedule. H problems in the schedule arise, exam dates may be changed. An official schequle is published around the fourth week where needs are." of each semester in the Notre Dame Sullivan recommended that stu­Report. dents check their exam schedule 
Sullivan urged instructors to now to avoid problems in the announce exam dates and times future. Difficulties should be early in the semester, in order to discussed with the instructor of the allow students to report conflicts. problem course in order to arrange If enough students note conflicts, satisfactory solutions. the exam time or date may be In the event that: changed. ·-two exams are scheduled for 
If conflicts do arise, for example the same time period; or between a departmental and a class --more than two exams are exam, the student should try to scheduled for the same day or more work out a solution with his than three are scheduled in the instructor, Sullivan noted. An same 24-hour period; or instructor has the perogative to --·an emergency absence or ill­arrange a separate test for a ness makes it impossible to attend student with a conflict. an exam; students should contact 
Sulivan compared the present the Office of the Registrar prior to system of formulating exam sched­the start of the exam to be assisted ules to a "well-oiled machine." in making the necessary arrange­
"We've worked out the kinks ments. over the years, and we learn more Extra coP.ies of the exam sched­every year from correcting past ule are available in the Office of the mistakes," he said. "We react to Registrar. 
Lecture highlights A&L graduate job possibilities 
by Leslie Brinkley 
Available job opportunities for Arts and Letters majors at Notre Dame were highlighted last night in Haggar Hall in a lecture spon­sored by the Arts and Letters Business Society. Mr. Paul Rey­nolds, a placement specialist at the University, discussed effective job hunting techniques, resumes, and career resources that may help students zero in on a rewarding career. 
"Attaining a job is a full-time job in itself, no matter what your major. Arts and Letters students must put forth a little more effort," Reynolds noted. He described many of the students stopping by his office as being depressed, thinking that there is only one goal to pursue. Graduates must learn to consider a wide variety of options, he said. 
Companies believe that the indi­vidual is important. According to Reynolds, recruiters ranked six factors as crucial to being hired: 1) personal qualification, 2) grades, ~) experience in extra-curricular acti­vities, 4) type of part·time employ­ment, 5) areas of special interest and hobbies, and 6) specific Arts and Letters courses. 
Reynolds stressed that "Liberal Arts majors across the U.S. must recognize they've learned many skiils in college that can be transferred into the world of work." He cited the significance of communication skiils, ability to memorize, speech and writing tal­ents, and logical reasoning in the race to find a job. 
As sophomores and juniors, stu· dents should begin to think about where they want to be five years after they graduate, and should research employers, careers and opportunities early. Reynolds claimed that ''the majority of students wait too long to assess interests and then don't have time" to groom themselves for jobs. 
Students should re-examine nega­
[continued on page 15] 
~--~ 
Friday, December 1, 1978 the observer 11 
%-=-=-=-= -='=_;--== = ,-=~ = =_;= = ·=-==
WaR~IIlli-maace-==•=== •=li~L!LG-=w~, t=
. . 
l~ 
ALAN ALDA • 
Alan Aida is an actor who has performed in many Broadway shows such as "The Owl and the Pussycat," and "The Apple Tree." He stars in the television series 
M.A.S.H. and received an Emmy award for best actor in a comedy series. He created the television series "We'll Get By" in 1975. Aida is the former recipient of the Theatre World Award for his role in the Broadway show "Fair Game For Lovers." 
ART BUCHWALD· Born Nov. 20, 1925, Art Buchwald has received fame both as a columnist and an author. He writes for the Los Angeles Times and his columns are syndicated in newspapers across the country. He has written over twenty books, most of which deal with government operations and current events. 
BILL COSBY-
Bill Cosby is an actor, entertainer, and recording artist. He began his career in nightclub entertainment and later moved on to television and film. In 1965 he became nationally famous for his role in the television series "I Spy." He has also appeared in "The Electric Company," and also has his own cartoon series, "The Bill Cosby Show." Cosby has received four Emmy awards and six Grammy awards thus far in his career. 
KATHERINE GRAHAM • 
Katherine Graham is the President of the Washington Post. She graduated from Vassar College and the University of Chicago. She was a member of the advisory committee of Institutional Politics and was a John Fitzgerald scholar. She is a trustee on the board of George Washington University, University of Chicago, and Federal City Council. She is also a member of the Board of Directors of Harvard University, Bowaters Mersey Paper Com­pany, Allied Chemical Company, and Newspaper Adviso;.y Inc. 
BOB HOPE· 
Bob Hope began his career in vaudeville. 
He has since appeared on stage, screen, 
radio and television in addition to author­
ing several books. Hope annually enter­
tained the armed forces overseas from 1941 
unti11971. He was also the recipient of the 
Navy's highest civilian honor, the Distin­
guished Public Service Award for "conspicuous generosity" in entertaining 
Amencan servicemen. In 1968, Hope 
received the Varsity Club's International 
Humanitarian Award and was honored for 
his work with the blind. In addition to this, 
lobotomy 
Hope was onced named "Comedian qf the Century" by a group of college entertain­ment chairmen. 
CARL SAGAN-Carl Sagan is an educator, author and astronomer. He worked on the Apollo Space Projects from 1969-1972. In 1972 he received the'NASA Medal for Exceptional Scientific Achievement for his work con­cerning the planet Mars. Sagan served as a member of the US delegation to a joint conference with Soviet Academies of Science-on "Communication with Extrater­esstial Intelligence.'' 
JOHN WAYNE· 
John Wayne began his acting career in 1929. Since then he has become the biggest box-office attraction in motion picture history. He won an Academy Award for best actor in the 1969 film "True Grit.'' Some of his more famous movies are: "Stagecoach," "The Sands of lwo Jima," and "The Man Who Shot Liberty Valance." 
ALEXANDER SOLZHENITSYN • 
A Russian author, is a former political prisoner. His account of prison camp life under Joseph Stalin was acclaimed in his novel, One Day In the Life of Ivan Denlsovich, (1962). During World War II, Sol. was almost continuously the front and was wounded several times and was decorated twice. He made a derogatory comment about Stalin and was arrested in 1945. He spent eight years in prison, was exiled in 1953, and was freed from exile in 1956. He demanded an end to literary censorship from the Union of Soviet Writers in 1967, and was expelled from it in 1969. Sol received the Nobel Prize for literature in 1970. He was exiled from Russia in 1974 and is currently living in the United States. 
JESSE JACKSON • 
A black American civil rights leader and a Baptist minister, he is currently the director of People United to Save Humanity (PUSH), an organization devoted to gain­ing economic power for blacks. He served as director of Operation Breadbasket; the economic arm of the Southern Christian Leadership Conference from 1966 to 1971. In this role he persuaded many white· owned companies to hire blacks and sell black-made products. 
WOODY ALLEN • An actor, director, producer, filmaker and author is one of today's most acclaimed comedians. At the age of 21 he received the Sylvania Award for his television 
by p.j. bytnes 

I FtEL L-ET'S 
writing of a Sid Caesar show. Allen has acted in such movies as: "Bananas," "Play It Again Sam," "The Front," "Annie Hall", and "Interiors." He was nominated for an Emmy Award as a television writer in 1957, and was nomi­nated for an Academy Award for his role and screening of "Annie Hall." 
MUHAMMAD AIJ • The only three time World Heavyweight Boxing Champ. He won the Golden Gloves in 1959 and 1960 and the Olympic Gold Medal in 1960. He refused to be drafted into the army in 1967 because of his religion. He has done many acts of kindness with his money, such as give houses and cars away to needy families. He has been an unofficial American Foreign Embassedor. He has co-written his autobiography, "I AM the Greatest," as well as starred in the same movie. He currently has a cartoon series, and is working on a new movie. 
WILMA RUDOLPH • 
The only woman to win three Olympic Gold Medals in one Oly~piad. She overcame crippling polio during her childhood in order to eventually qualify for the 1956 Olympics at age 15. She is now a social worker, and also tours college campuses as a lecturer. 
JOHN BELUSID • 
One of the new stars of television and films. He first became famous as one of the "Not Ready For Prime Time Players" on .the popular "Saturday Night Live" show. Recently he has been given credit for reviving much collage campus humor through the screen hit, "Animal House." 
MAL'COLM MUGGERIDGE ­
One of Britain.'s best-known authors and social critics, is a prolific writer whose articles and books have achieved inter­national acclaim since the 1930's. He was editor of the British humor magazine Punch, and a correspondent for several newspapers. Mr. Muggeridge is also a familiar British television personality. His latest works include "his best-selling auto­biography Chronicles of Wasted Time, Jesus: The Man 'Who Lives, and A Twentieth Century Testimony. 
Career Crisis: Part 11 
Editor's Note: This Is the second In four part series. Parts 3 and 4 appear next week. 
Hot off the presses, at a nickel a copy, there it lies in front of me. Printed on standard 8 112" x 11" size, Eggshell White, medium-weight paper, it may be the most important document I own. It is of course, My Resume. 
A single sheet, reproduced fifty times. One-inch margins on the sides and bottom, and a two-inch space on top. Thirty-four lines of pica type, with ten characters to the inch. Give or take a few odd characters, that means my entire life history can be written in 525 words or less. 
There. On one sheet of paper. EVERYTHING you EVER need· to know about Gallagher, Cathy J. 
Not so, 0 Great Wise One!! Abe Lincoln ~ay have been able to dash off a page of history on the back of an envelope, but I'm afraid I'm not that concise. Scattered about me on the floor of my room are little piles of confetti, paper airplanes and the crumbled revisions of innumerable. rough drafts that preceded the final version of my resume. 
You see, I believed all the experts who c\aim that the briefer the resume, the better. It was difficult, but with mounting ruthlessness and wild abandon, I was eventually successful in paring down my life story to fit the standard resume size. A painful process to be sure, but undoubtedly a wise decision. Or was it? Somehow I feel gypped. Isn't there someone out there who wants to know what's written on the little piles of confetti on my floor? Won't some inspired recruiter read between the thirty-four lines on my resume and ask what I really want to tell him about myself? 
If so, I'm ready. I can think of countless anecdotes guaranteed to fully endear myself· to any prospective employer. A gold mine of abilities and talents lies written on the paper airplanes near my trash can, sure to be overlooked by the insensitive or careless reader of my resume. 
F\)r instance, no where on my resume does it appear that, at the precocious age of seven years old, I starred in a solo routine in Miss Dee's dance recital. I sand and danced to a song called, "Millie the Moth" and was costumed appropriately with shocking pink gauze wings and antennae made from a feather duster. The audience loved it, and even though one of my wings fell <;~ff, my mother still says I stole the show. 
Wouldn't you thirik this incident would tell a future employer much more that a mere G.P.A. statistic? Must respect for the art of dance get lost in the shuffle? 
Or what about the time in high school 
when I was babysitting my neighbors· 
kids? There I was, mesmerized by a 
Creature Features rerun on TV, when 
suddenly I heard the fabled Axe Murderer 
of Palos Park, lllinois right downstairs. 
Did I panic? Did I forget my responsibility 
to the sleeping children in the next room? 
Nosirree, I did what any sane, logical 
person does when they suspect a real or 
imaginary Axe Murderer downstairs: 
turned up the TV full volume and waited 
for the kids' parents to return and identify 
the Axe Murderer noises as their washing 
machine on the blink. • 
Now doesn't this anecdote attest to my capacity to think under pressure; my reluctance to raise false alarms?, Isn't this resume material? 
_ Or what about my proven ability to 
whistle no less thim three different wavs? 
My uncontested aptitude for making 
scrambled eggs? The fact that I can say, 
"Hello. Where is the nearest yacht club?" 
in both Russian AND Spanish? 
Yes, these and many other insights to my character were edited from my curri­culum vitae and now lie in shreds and pieces on my floor. What then, you may ask,.could possibly remain to include on the final version of my resume? According to this distilled 525-word summary, what kind of person is Gallagher, Cathy J.? 
If indeed, you do ever read my resume, you will experience a haunting sensation of deja vu. The individual described on that 8 112" x 11" sheet of paper will have traits that you're sure to have seen before in the personages of Clark Kent, Bruce Wayne et al. 
For, with the help of a little imagination and Roget's Thesaurus, anything is possible. A rather undistinguished aca­demic career can be rewritten for a Rhodes scholarship if you know your ABC's. Extra-curricular interests can range from gourmet cooking, (the aforementioned scrambled eggs "avec fromage"), to active participation in sports, (I remained standing during all home games). And even a summer job on a GM assembly line can sound like the work experience tailored for this decade's Henry Ford. 
To spare you the details, my resume is to reality as Peking is to Poughkeepsie. In fact, not even Burger King can make as big a Whopper as when I do it my way. 
Therefore, future reader of my resume, please realize that, at a nickel a copy, that piece of paper comes pretty cheap. A thousand other resumes are sure to deliver the same old song and dance. 
But, if you really want to catch a different act, if you really want to hear a different tune, ask me about Millie the Moth. I may be a little rusty, but I'm sure I -:ould wing it! 
Cathy Gallagher 
'~-----------------------------------------~~ 
Features 
,_..... 
12 the observer Friday, December 1, 1978 

•------------------------., 
a didn't 
THE DOUBLE TAKE JOGGING TRIPLE TAKE TENNIS SUIT 
-----------------------------------------~----------------~ 
T-SHHIT 60150 XL 
SOLID COLORS f ~ 115.95
3:.34 f 38~40 : 42-44 46 
THREE STRIPE 
s:
100% STRETCH 
132~34 140~2 l16.95 
28-30 136:a8
NYLON SHORTS 
P.O.Box 30n2
COLORS-RED, BLUE, KELLY GIEEN 
Ralelgh,N.C.
adldn't
SAVE-BUY COmPLETE SUIT ONLY J11.95 
IPot.lp•ld. AU•.., 2 ... Weeb for Deltnry) 27612 
The University has announced a S 1.5 million grant from the Stephan Chemical Company of Northfield, n, for construction of a chemical research facility. The building will be named the Stpehan Chemistry Hall. Alfred C. Stepan, Jr., the founder and chariman of the com­pany, is an alumnus and trustee of the University. 
"This grant brings nearer to 
.reality one of the chief research
needs of the University," com­mented Fr. Theodore M. Hesburgh, University president. "We are grateful to Stephan Chemical Company for enabling us to pursue the discoveryof new knowledge in an area of longstand­ing academic distinction at Notre Dame." 
Historically one of the Univer­sity's strong departments, chemist­ry has been hampered by a lack of research space, especially modern laboratory facilities. In listing new construction needs for the Univer­sity five years ago, the Committee onniversity Priorities put a chem­istry research facility first. 
Almost half the department's 
For chemical research 
Notre Dame receives grant 
28,000 square feet of research and graduate instruction laboratory space is in Chemistry Hall built in 1920. The new facility is expected to add 45,000 square feet of up-to-date research and instrument space, as well as provideing offices for faculty and clerical staff; seminar rooms; machine, elec­tronic and glass shops; animal rooms and computer terminals. 
Chemistry has been taught at Notre Dame since 1865, and the doctorate has been offered since 1911. A major scientific discovery-­synthetic rubber--can be traced to the work of Fr. Julius Nieuwland, in the late 1920's and early 1930's. 
·In the national Roos-Anderson survey of 1970, Notre Dame's Chemistry Department was ranked one of the outstanding departments in the country. Its faculty members staff the Radiation Laboratory, a 
U.S. Government-supported world center for radiation chemistry. 
Other area of research concentrat· ion include protein chemistry, solid state photochemistry, and investig­ations of the structure of mem­
branes and micelles. There are 
about 25 faculty members in the 
department, which teaches some 
1,500 students at undergraduate, 
doctoral and postdoctoral levels. 
Stephan Chemical's gift is the largest corporate contribution to the research facility extimatd to cost S6 million to complete. It will be located next to Nieuwland Science Hall and is scheduled for a construction start next spring. The University is seeking additional support for the building. 
Keenan stages 
annual review 
this weekend 
Keenan Hall will present the third annual "Keenan Review" tonight and Saturday at 8 p.m. in Washing­ton Hall. The show is open to the public with semi-formal attire sug· gested. Due to the anticipated demand, tickets will be distributed solely as a means of crowd control. Tickets will be available at the Washington Hall box office from 4 
to 5:30p.m. today and tomorrow. Only two tickets will be given to any individual. Persons without tickets will not be admitted to the show. 
Father Griffin to celebrate Advent masses 
A noontime Mass will be offered daily during the weekdays of Advent in the LaFortune Ballroom. The Mass, which will be said by Fr. Robert Griffin, University chaplain, will begin this Monday. 
I 
II • 
I 
This semester break take advantage of Continental's price break on air­fares. vVe'11 take you to the snow in Colorado, the sun on either coast, or the warmth of your family circle. And you'll.save enough to live it up once you get there. Fly anyplace Continental flies on the mainland and save up to 50% off regular Coach, depending on when and where you go. Of course, there are some restrictions and you must purchase your tickets in advance. 
Even if you get a sudden itch to travel, Continental can save you some scratch without an advance purchase. We have the only system-wide* discount fare without restrictions. It'll save you up to 20% any night, 10% any day that we have seats available. 
Call your Campus Representative, Travel Agent or Continental Airlines. We'd love to give you a break. 
•mainland only 
1 We really move our tail for you. 
CONTINENTAL AIRLINES 
The Proud Bird with the Golden Tail. 

-~----·--------------------­
---~----------------~---------------------, ·~ 

j
Friday, December 1, 1978 
the observer 13 
Engineering building nearing completion 
lli£l ~[) § ..( lll£lCJitff?
~ND 
f)f£l§£lflt§_
SMC 
lclwC11d 41f)£l£l·~s
THEATRE 
c1ll ()~er 
SJlrn 111 ()'lctu"llllll4.tJclltt::rlurn frl. Sctt. Su11. [)f?£.~.) Wt?cl. lllurs. frl. Sctt. [)f?£. tJ,l,S,()
* Sold out Dec. 1, 2 
Seating is ~ery limited. fhe audience will be seated randomly within the environmental setting of the play. Please note the Sunday and Wt~dnesday performances. 
~erve your tickets now! Call284-4..176 
. -........._...,..~...,.........-....,...--. 
by Margaret Burke 
The $8 million addition to the Engineering Building will be ready for occupation this summ~r, ~ro­viding the College of Engmeermg with much needed classroom, re­search and laboratory space. 
Joseph C. Hogan, dean of the College of Engineering, stated that "60 percent of the addition is underground, and this area is almost completely instructional and research laboratories, facilities where we were very crowded before." 
The five-level, 155,000-square­foot addition will nearly triple the size of the present building. 
A. Murty Kanury, associate pro­fessor of Aerospace and Mechani­cal Engineering, said the engineer­ing faculty was consulted about the small television studio. All rooms 
will be wired to originate as well as receive programs. 
William B. Berry, assistant dean for Research and Special Projects in the College of Engineering, said, 
"We wanted to provide modern facilities which could keep pace with developments in undergradu­ate education and graduate re­search as well as assist the faculty in securing research to maintain quality growth in all programs." 
Women to discuss female ministry 
..,....,.................................~.,
addition 1 and. "most 1 suggeS) "Women in the Church: Mini­r ......~~-~ -J 'tionsi were regarded." stry/Ordination" will be the sub­
Ka ... .uy auuea tnat classrooms \ ~ 
ject of several presentations made
will continue to be used in the main 
at a meeting on Monday at 1:30 \ FAMILY \
building. But, there will now "be [ HAVE YOUR PORTRAITS [
p.m. in the Memorial Library
more room for graduate students, l WEDDING IN THE HOME l
lounge. The presentations will be
perhaps decent offices. Before, J LOVE STORY J
made by persons attending the \ CREATIVELY [
they were all cramped in one room 
Women's Ordination Conference in
with assigned carrels," he said. ~ TOLD CHILDR:EN ~ 
Baltimore. Bishop William E.
The new addition will provide 
McManus of the Ft. Wayne-South
"space direly needed all along." \ ~ 
Bend Diocese will be at the 
_ The addition will also include an 
\ ANIMALS \
meeting.
···audio-visual learning center with a 
~ PHOTO COPY ~ \ AND INSTANT t
Students protest housing lottery, ~ RESTORATION 2,32:9963 ~'P~r~~~: \ \ SOUTH BEND. IN ~ 
Hesburgh addresses active crowd:;::;::;;,;;;;;;::;;:;;;;;::;;:;*-; 
[continued from page 1] answer questions. D.ressed in a three or four-hu?dred persons .on * ~A Chr.lstmas Carol' * sweater, he spoke until the crowd campus would ex1st, "a lottery w1th * * Many protestors noted that dispersed at 12:45. no exceptions" would be fair. He * * ho~ses near campus are already Hesburgh said he .has added told the crowd, "I don't want to i ~ * bemg reserved.for next y~ar, all:d 2,000 beds to campus smce beco~-hide any information. There are *Sunday, Dec 3 7:30 and IO:OOpm * demanded a .qutck lottery,. 1f one 1s ing president of Notre Dame m just so many beds and so many * * to be h;ld, m order ~e dtspel the 1952, and said he would like to add people.'' * i uncertamty surroundmg the lot-1,000 more. Hesburgh said he thought the * * tery. "If I had my 'druthers, I'd have protest was "great," adding, "I'm * * 
Many of the tents, which were everyone on campus," he said. glad you are all concerned. I am * * hung over lines strung between Hesburgh told the group gathered too." * * trees and draped on tree limbs, on the steps of the building that He ruled out the .possibility of ~ * bore anti-lottery slogans. Com-there will probably be a· lottery cutting down admissions, saying * * ments included: "Dear Mom, sometime in spring. "We'll know the University could not operate * * please send room"; "Who profits by February or March," he said, with a· reduced enrollment. * * beside you?"; "Hey, Ted, need a stressing that facts must be Hesburgh said he sees a trend * Carroll Hall, SMC i roommate?"; and "There's no gathered before steps can be taken. toward on-campus living, and * * place like home." He deemed a lottery "the last hopes it continues, calli... the * * A few sheets bearing anti-lottery resort." competition for rooms a • bood * * sentiments were hung from the In response to a question about problem." * * porch of the Administration Build-preferential treatment for women, McCurrie asked the crowd to * d b SMC S • 1C * ing itself. Hesburgh said that "the woman disperse and allow Hesburgh to go ~ Sponsore y OCia omrn. * Hesburgh came through the ( housing) problem is a lot less back inside the building at 12:45. * · · * front doors onto the porch at 12:30 tnan the man problem." The remaining 100 students quieti} * ******************************** 
a.m. to address the crowd and He also said that if an excess of drifted away. 



l!~ open 9 to midnight mon-sat 
f) • call 684-4950 STATEUNE ROAD iN NILES ONE BLOCK EAST OF US 31 
14___trut_OIIL..b'3iS~8ofYL.L'I8illi[L--______:_F..:.r:.:id.::.a!...!.y,:_oD~e~c~e!.!!m~b~erc__1_!_,,_J1!_:!9'!.c78!!_ 
'Probably a meteor~ 
Hoosier citizens spot UFO's 
[AP] -Authorities were beseiged 
by hundreds of telephone calls 
after a bright light was seen in the 
skies above Indiana last night. 
Switchboards at police depart­
ments, newspapers and broadcast 
stations around the state reported 
scores of calls inquiring about the 
"light in the sky." 
"We've gotten about 100 calls," 
said Sgt. Robert Miles at the 
Indiana State Police operations 
center in Indianapolis. 
"Some of our own personnel even reported seeing it, but we don't know what it was," Miles said. "Whatever it was, it packed a lot of candlepower." 
Reports streamed in from points as far apart as Evansville on the Ohio River in southwest Ind~ana to South Bend near the Michigan border. 
State police said the first reports 
started coming in about 9:30 p.m. 
EST. 
At the National Weather Service 
office in Indianapolis, there 
seemed to be as much confusion as 
there was outside. 
"We've gotten -about two dozen calls from all over," said forecaster Glenn Wiley. "We've heard it was seen as far away as St. Louis. It was probably a meteor that took a long time burning up." 
Mark Gates of Evansville said he saw "a red glow that zoomed up in the skies." 
Officials on duty in the control tower at the Evansville airport said that there were no airplanes in the vicinity of Dress Regional Airport and that they also sighted a ball in the sky around 8:40p.m., CST. 
Kentucky state police said that the object had been seen as a bright light in the <;ky over 10 states. 
Kentucky police said they were dJCcking rcpNts that pieces of the meteorite fell in three diffcrcnt cnuntie<; and ·here also were rc· ports of pieces tailing received in three widely-separated Indiana lo­cations. 
A spokc~man for the North Ameri­can Air Deft•nsc C(>mmand at Colorado Springs. Colv .. said the meteorite was tracked on radar entering the earth's atmosphere near Lebanon, Ind., northwest of Indianapolis. 
A spokesman for the control tower at Louisville's Standiford Field said an Ozard Airlines pilot flying out of southwestern Kentucky about 9:30 a~out 9:30 last night said, "Hey, dtd you see that meteor?" 
The pilot said the meteorite was traveling northwest to southeast, a 
spokesman for the tower said the 
pilot was about 25 miles southwest 
Jf Louisville airport when he made 
the comment. · 
~luegrass Field in Lexington also :iatd a _Pilot reported spotting the meteorite. An employee of a Louisville television station who saw the meteorite said it gave the sky a blue tint for a second and then a bright trail streamed after it for an instant. 
Press releases novel 
by Paul Stauder 
Juniper Press, the only student­owned and operated publishing house in the countr}r, has just released the novel VlraJu ud Martyen, by Dolores Warwick Frese. 
The organization is made up of seventeen senior Ameri~an Studies majors and has published two books before "VIralns and Martyn", according to Mike Kenahan, who serves as publicity director for the company. The company was formed in 1977 as part of a book publishing course taug~t by Elizabeth Christman, 
assoctate  professor of  American  
Studies.  
"Forming  our  own  company  

proved interesting," said Karen Causo, the current president of Juniper Press. "We have encount­ed just about every obstacle that any other publishing house would encounter, except on a smaller scale. I don't think any company member would deny that the experience has been valuabe." 
Kenahan reported that sales are going well. "Mrs. Frese bought SS copies herself, and Pandora's has been selling out and ordering more for their shelves." 
All revenue from the book is placed in the Notre Dame Credit Union, according to Kenahan. and from the profit which will go to the author. 
The book recently received ment­ion in the paperback section of PubUsben Weeldy, and Frese has been invited to speak at the Cluster School in Chicago, where, accord­ing to Kenahan, she will "give a reading around Easter time." 
Frese explained that her book "focuses on human experiences tb:-.t are peculiar to women. The s•ories explore women who aren't generally the subject of serious fiction and haven't had serious fictional explanation, such as nuns and Polish mother." 
VIrgins and Martrys is the fourth book published by the assistant professor of English . 
Caruso felt that the book ''would be appealing to both males and females alike because Dolores Frese does not take one side. Rather, she makes fascinating character studies and puts all her characters in complex situations that would hold any reader's attention to the fullest." 
Virgins and Martyrs is available in paperback for $2.75 in the Notre Dame Bookstore. 
Answers 
to 
any profit wm probably be turned Yesterday'sPuzzle
over to next year's class. aside 
****************************** 
t TIMM PARTY STORE : 
* * 
: OPEN:MON-SAT 9am-11pm: * SUNDAY12noon-11pm * 
! BEERSALE ! 
: 3114 S.l1 ST. NILES, MICHIGAN: 
* *
****************************** 



Your car IS the best seat at any Taco John's-and you don't even t1p the wa1ter tor the fastest serv1ce around I 





MEN 
D 
collegiate crossword 
ACROSS 47 Seoul soldier 11 Scarlet ---­
48 Actor Colman, for 12 Hard to grasp 1 College disciplines short 13 ----Canal 7 Turn 49 Finnish port 15 Loathe 
13 Knightly defender 50 Do'vet's work 20 Ringing sound 14 May's stone 52 Red dye 26 Diamond goof 16 College environment 54 Father de ----27 Tavern-stock 17 VIP's attendants 55 Italian strait 28 Danube tributary18 Application item 57 Fit for the table 29 Chased toward 19 "-Doll" 59 William Holden movie (2 wds.) 21 Endure 60 Ate the clock 31 State abbreviation 22 Fuss 61 ----"Inferno" 3'3 Work with grass 23 Relatives 62 Move unsteadily 35 Most counterfeit 24 Give: Scot. 36 TV host 25 Manufactured DOWN 37 Put into use 27 First Oscar-winning 38 Indonesian capital 
MEN 
~ 
!K/' 
'..-,j
Jr. 
D 
-
~ 
movie 
29 Accelerates 
30 Punishing by fine 
32 Turkish inn 
34 Sounded 
35 Part of speech Cabbr.)36 Coax J9 Like tender meat 43 Jewish month 44 Go swiftly 46 Streetcar 
Road surfacing 39 Dove sounds 
material 40 Prickly shrub 2 Pie ----41 Tag-making device 3 Green gemstone 42 Was theatrical 4 Keats' forte 45 Thieves 5 Just misses a 51 Show boredom 
basket 52 Raison d'­6----suspicion 53 Atlantic alliance 7 Telephone again 54 Nautical man 8 Portent 56 "Ask -what your9 The ----Offensive country ... " 
10 Seed covering 58 Make lac"e 

• • 4).
n1ck1e's • 
Cocktail houQ
tobay 4-6 
7&.7's (}tn & tontc's 50¢ • Rum&cok€'s •
r:., 
I ~
• 

---~-------~--------------------------~--------------------------------------~ 
Friday, Dec.ember 1, 1978 the obseryttr __15 
NOTICES 
Gay students of Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Gay Information Write: P.O. Box 
Buy low priced third world handicrafts today at the St. Francis shoppe Saie·La· Fortune 1Q-2, Library Concourse 6-11. 
Need aride? Call Wilson Driveway. Cars to ail major cities. Ail you pay for is gas. Cars are brand new. For more infor· matlon call Dan at 1783. 
Morrissey Loan Fund Tuesday Dec. 12 is the last day to apply for a loan this semester. 
TONIGHT Autograph Party! Chat Grant & Dan Devine, author & introducer of Before Rockne at Notre Dame. ($9.95/cloth· bound). Library Lounge, 7·9 p.m. 
Need Quality Typing? Executary, Inc. Professional typing Service 12 type styles $1/page minimum Cai1232-0898 "When you want the Best" 
Central Ohio Club Organizational meet· lng Tuesday, Dec. 5, 7:00 p.m., La­Fortune Amphitheater. 
Student Checks cashed with SMC/ND 
I. D. Card at Mar-Main Pharmacy, 426 N. Michigan (Park at McDonald's). 
Attention ail Logan Volunteers and interested students! The annual Christ· mas dance for the mentally handicapped will be held this Friday December 1st, from 7:30-10:00 p.m. in the Logan Center cafeteria. Come and join the fun! A live band and refreshments will insure agood time! A decoration making party will be held Thursday night at Logan at 7:00 
p.m. Please come and help us make decorations for the dance! Questions call Mike at 1371 or Sue at 41-4832. 
Attention all Logan Center saturday rec people! Regular Saturday rec will be held December 2nd at Logan Center from 9:00-11:30 a.m. Bring your swimsuit if you like and help the kids enjoy Saturday Rec. 
Volunteers needed to work with mentally handicapped adults for one-half hour or hour periods anytime from 10:30 a.m. to 
12:30 p.m. on any weekday. Do you have an extra one-half hour? Help a mentally handicapped adult in the swimming pool or gymnasium. Call Mike at 1371 or Sue at 41-4832. 
Government majors: Volunteer needed to serve on St. Joe County Committee for State Budget proposals and legislative action concerning rights and funding for developmentally disabled citizens of St. Joe County and the state of Indiana. Call Mike at 1371 or Sue at 41·4832. 
FORRENT ·• For rent, 2nd semester, 3bedroom house on beautifully wooded 1.4 acres with trout stream; Gas heat; Fireplaces; $400 7343 or 684-6620. 
5 Bedroom. Gas Heat. Furnished. Available January 1, 1979. Also accept­ing applications for 1979-1980 school year. Lease Required. Call now. 287-1545 Henry De Rouck." 
LOST & FOUND Found: Man's watch at computer center. Come to Dispatchers office to Identify. 
Help! Between lunch and dinner on Monday the 27th, Someone accidently walked off with my knapsack from S. Dining Hall. Please, I need it back as it has ail my notes for all my classes in it. if you found a brown bag and/or 4 yellow spiral notebooks, please call 6757 as soon as possible. 
Need 2 GA tickets or 1 student, 1 GA ticket for the Valpo basketball game Saturday. Please call Tom at 1138. 
Need ride to I.U. Bloomington Friday Dec. 1, will share driving and expenses. Call J.B. 1165. 
FOR SALE Tired of High prices? Need a shirt for your club or dorm? 
KEN MAR INC. Has T-shirts galore at the lowest prices on campus. Kenmar has a sales representative on campus to fill all your T·shlrt, sweat shirt, and jacket needs at the lowest Unbeatable Prices! Contact Anthony Totaro 4684. 
For Sale: Student basketball ticket. Call Sean at 288·2088. Best offer. 
1972 Ford Gran Torino good condition, new tires and battery. Some rust. From $975. 291·4530 between 5 and 7 p.m. 
For Sale: "Black Panther Hockey Skates." Top condition. Size 9 one-half­10. Call 1493. 
For Sale: Package "A" Basketball season ticket. Include UCLA. Best offer. Call 41·4834. 
PERSONALS John Russell, sophomore representative of the Notre Dame Closet Extrovert Society, announces the next meeting is scheduled for Dec 23. In the maid's closet of Cavanaugh. 
Mark Perry who will be turning 21 tomorrow, wishes to announce that ail gifts and presents should be delivered to 137 Stanford Hail. Happy Birthday Mark!!!!!!! 
Love the Observer Typists 
Its Tom Kenny's Birthday-Dec. 2 Wish him a happy one. 1079! 
Tommy, Happy 21st! Love, Bean Ball. 
SMC Freshman Class Mass Regina Chapel11 :15 Sun. Dec. 3 Xmas cookies & Hot chocolate in Regina South Lobby afterwards. All SMC Freshman and Faculty invited. 
The Observer staff would like to wish Mark Perry a Happy Birthday tomorrow, but we can't since there isn't a paper tomorrow, so we have to do it today: Happy Birthday, Mark Perry!!!! 
NEED PRIVATE GOLF LESSONS FOR THE COMING SPRING. TAKING Af1 PLICATIONS NOW. JUST TWO GIRLS WHO WOULD REALLY LIKE TO LEARN HOW TO PLAY. IF INTER, ESTED IN TEACHING TWO SWEET GIRLS CALL 41-4390. 
ANN CUSICK, Today is the day to gather ye rose buds while ye may Happy 21st. 
"Nobody in Particular", You are one wild and crazy gal!! I'm looking forward to our practice session tonlte, but don'tteil anybody--my reputa· !ion will be ruined! (ooooooh! Mr. Bill!) 
Scoop 
Margie Brassil Is certainly an unusual mix of traits! Among her characteristics: 
(1) her azure eyes glow, (2) she is philosophically transcended, (3) she is paranoid about her neck, and (4) she thinks America should be called "Brassil­land." (Call out the guys in the white suits!) 
Scoop 
Pam (Yabba·Dabba·Do) Degnan, 
I deny any and all rumors to the effect that I even slightly enjoy Disco Music. However, I will concede that Disco Dancing appears to be enjoyable. (this does not mean that I have ever acted in such a manner, however!) 
(lASSIfiE[)•••• 
The Holy Sisters of the Convent of St. Sarin wish Mother Superior and Sr. Ann Marie a Happy Birthday. 
Eileen, Break a leg, you Mother! Love, the Cellar Dwellers. 
Mac & "0", When's your party? 
us 
(Rosallta & Co.) 
Break aLeg Lisa Jaquez· · Love MB, Laura, Kath 
Red Headed Bed Bug-Here is your personal for the week ending 11/30/78. Have you been experimenting in your soc. lab? Tell Jimm I think he make's you an excellent lab partner. 
Love, F.W. 
SAFB· What scandal are you creating this weekend? MB 
To everyone who helped make my birthday such asurprise! It couldn't have been better. Thank you so much. Love, Malice 
Thanks for the roses Cj. 
Young thai needs dates Wealthy Clark Gagle·type preferred. Call Pee·Jupe at 8880 and send this girl home to Osaka happy. 
"Last bash before exams!" Frosh Finale, this evening, 9-1, Stepan Center, $1.00 
HA HA !!!! LISA AND JEANNINE. KATHY AND I TOLD YOU WE WOULD STRIKE BACK FOR HALLOWEEN! WE LIKE TO SURPRISE YOU!! GOOD LUCK!! HOPE YOU HAVE FUN PLAY, lNG!!! 
P.S. GOOD LUCK* SERIOUSLY* ON 
YOUR EXAMS!!!THAT INCLUDES YOU L!:::========================iT
TO KATHY.!!!!! 
Snaves, Break a Leg! (Not thumbs. feet, walls bowling?!), audio-visuals, glasses (B.S.), golf clubs, ukuleles (honey?!); or even Parietals.) 
us 
P.S. What is a Rosemonster? Which room is ours? 
Chris N roses are red but Iam blue, only Romans know I sent one to you? 
Hockey fever is here! To catch it get your tickets for the Dec. 8-9 Wisconsin series now before they're gone Be there! 
TO Muff & the Queen of KINK** Why are you looking here? It's somewhere else! 
Texas Club Happy Hour-today 3-6 p.m. at Goose's Nest. Kicker dance featuring cotton-eyed Joe and red neck mother. .50 drinks .25 drafts all welcome. 
Little matchgirl Happy Birthday Love Dad and the kids. 
To Momma Jean, sisters Rose, Marla, Marybeth, Bunny Thanks for the fun times in LA Mary Anne we wish you could have been there. 
Your Crazy Johns 
P.S. Incest is best 
PPS. Rose, Have a happy 22nd on Saturday. 
Section 3B Farley serves the best beans in town. 
Lecturer Reynolds speaks on A&L job opportunitie~s 
[continued from page 10] 
tive connotations surrounding sales 
jobs, because a position in sales is 
often the base from which an 
employee moves into advertising, 
public relations, or personnel. "If 
you can sell yourself, the company, 
and its products, then they'll want 
to move you on up,'' Reynolds 
commented. Such firms as banks, 
department stores, ·and manufac­
turing corporations should not be 
ruled out of the job search, he 
added.f 
Two tasks of prime importance are 
self-assessment and employment 
research. ''A student must dis­
cover what it is that makes him 
tick--his aptitudes, skills and inter­
ests--and also, his weaknesses and 
liabilities," Reynolds said. After 
speaking to experts and employees 
in certain fields, a student should 
begin to decide how his skills fit 
into the occupational requirements 
of that job. 
Reynolds recommended the ''Oc­
cupational Outlook Handbook," 
available in the reference area of 
any library, as the best guide to 
employment opportunities.f 
He emphasized that mail cam­
paign was a necessity, as students 
"shouldn't rely just on the Place­
ment Bureau." 
Reynolds labeled the resume as "the calling card for the future. It reflects your background and your personality. It is you." He suggested that it contain brief, but 
sufficient information about the 
•••••••••••••••••A[)l'EI:IISE_..E~ lrS 
To the Arizona Disco King, How about a "mad and passionate" welcome home party? 
Love, Immoral and Illegal 
Rent aParty Are your parties boring? Blase'? Needing a new concept? Then rent a party! Rent Mr. party, Jerry Cincotta, for your formal, informal and holiday needs. Fireworks and hat included. Special rates ~ailable for Senior Bar lovers. 
Sue, You've made me so happy. I love you. 
Marshall 
Kimble, Don't blow your big chance to be Al's 
snowbunny. Come ski Killington.  with  us  at  
Love  & Snowflakes  
AI  

Happy Birthday Ann Cusick! It's about time!!! 
Kimble Come ski with Albie 
The third "Geek" norton quote of the week is; Jeff, Dowe put the carpet under the furniture, or do we cut out spaces in the carpet to fit the furniture in? 
Geek! Geekl Geek$$ 
To the Pangborn Senior Trippers: Who me? Yeah you! 
Couldn't be! 
student, and not exceed more than one type-written page. 
"Most employers spend only 35 to 40 seconds glancing at a resume. You've got to whet their appetite and make them want to talk you," Reynolds said. Guidelines for a successful resume includ1~ typing the report, never using the word "1'', using action verbs whenever possible, underlining and capital­izing to make items stand out, and including a letter of application along with the resume. 
Reynolds advised students to always address the application forms to a specific person in the corporation, rather than a general department. Another suggestion was to type the resume on colored paper, so that it will stand out in the employer's mind from other applications. 
Reynolds urged students to stop by the Notre Dame Placement Office in the Administration Build­ing in rooms 222 and 213 for advice and information. 
Student Play~ers to meet 
Anyone interested in working on the Student Player's Spring Pro­duction should attend a meeting Sunday in the LaFortune basement at 1:30. The production and the director will be chosen at the 
meeting. 
Who stole the cookies from the cookie jar? 
OOOOOHHHHH SH! from Suite 1000 
Dear Fun Friends: Zing, Zing, Zing, Jacqueleen! 
The third of December? Yes, a date to remember; A 22nd birthday to cheer· offer the kid a beer; C' mon everyone e; take a part in this special day for Kevin Hart. 
RJ, You really are aDWDB signed, J.J., c.s.c. 
Dee-neef, llubbs u muches and gobs. Oo-cloo-doo. Your Iii ice cube 
So it's the Big 18 Right, Emmett? Is that years or inches? Big Brother 
Kathy: What you fail to understand Is that "Sprunger Stables" must be pmnounced with a heavy Penna. Dutch accent. Try it that way and you'll see the depth behind those simple words. Chet Reid's car parts Is not even worthy of comment.­REALLY. 
EPS 
Mark: Have agreat birthday and don't get too carried away turning a big "21 "! Monday Night's Chief! 
COME SEE ALL OVER SMC THEATRE THIS WEEKEND!!! 

I 
I I I 
-~ 
~ 
18 the observer Friday, December 1, 1978 
I 
I Dillon, Keenan to tangle
I 
for interhall grid crown 
by Ray O'Brien Sports Editor 
The lnterhall football season con­cludes Sunday in orre of the biggest matchups in recent history. The two division champs are Keenan and Dillon Halls. The matchup pits a perennial old power with a dominating interhall history against the winners for the last three years. 
It was once rumored that Dillon Hall's football team could handle some of the opponents Ara Par­seghian's team faced. The Big Red Machine won the league title from 1972 to 1974. 
When Dillon floundered, Keenan made their move to the top. Keenan proceeded to take the interhall football title in 1975, 1976 and 1977, boasting an impenetrable defense that dominated the league. 
This year both these traditional powers are back on top for what could be one of the most exciting and evenly matched games in years. The two teams are very similar in style while an undefeated Dillon squad would have to be called a slight favorite. 
Keenan Hall has lost only two games over the last four years, one coming in a 7-0 defeat to Flanner this season. However, that is the only touchdown the Keenan de­fense has allowed all year. Coach Don Bishop's team has been able to ~orne up with the big play in recording a 4-1 record. 
The defense is anchored by cap­tain Lou Basso at middle linebacker with Doug Kriegshauser virtually unmovable at defensive tackle. The defensive secondary has played consistently well to date. 
On offense, Keenan boasts two all-star running backs from a year ago in halfback Mike Fasslet and wingback Nick Molinaro. How­ever, both backs are coming off injuries. Quarterback George Bro­derick has a favorite target in Steve Iselin who is a long ball threat. Ed Oainko is the returning all-star kicker which makes the field goal a factor. 
Coach Dick Hughes' Dillonites have boasted a balanced attack en route Fullback Jamie Halpin runs with power while Dana Crowley possesses the speed. Dana's uncle, Brian Crowley, calls the signals from his quarterback posi­tion. The offensive line is spear­headed by guards Brian Mraz and Jim Trizna, who has been an all-star· 
for the last two years. 
Dillon has also only allowed one 
touchdown this year as their defen­
sive line has caused a plethora of 
turnovers. Defensive tackle Matt 
Allen and defensive end Scott 
Buchanan, brother of Irish running 
back Pete Buchanan, has pressured 
quarterbacks throughout the sea­
son. Dillon's defensive secondary 
leads the league in pass intercep­
tions. 
Both teams are young with Dillon 
having only two seniors in their 
starting lineup. That means that 
another dynasty could be in the 
making. Sunday's outcome will tell 
the real story. Game time is set for 
1 p.m., on Cartier Field. 
Irish try to hold WCHA lead; battle Huskies in Michigan 

by Mark Perry Assistant Sports Editor 
Last weekend the Michigan Tech hockey team helped Notre Dame to reach the top spot in the WCHA. This week the Huskies will be trying their best to take the Irish out of their lofty position. 
The Irish icers travel· to Houghton to take on Tech in their first away contests since Nov. 18. Friday night's game will begin at 8, with the Saturday night conrest slated for 7:30. Both games will be carried over WNDU-AM. 
~-
While the Irish were engineering a two-game sweep over Michigan at the ACC last week, the Huskies 1 tied league-leading Denver on
I Friday night, and then nipped the Pioneers 6-5 on Saturday. This enabled Notre Dame to advance into first, and moved the Huskies into fourth place, three points behind the Irish, with 5-3-2 record (7-J-2 over-all). Tech is coached by John Macinnes, who is in his 23rd year at the helm and has lead the Huskes to 19 winning seasons, four NCAA titles, and has twice been selected Coach of the Year. The top performer for the Husk­ies this year has been right winger Gord Salt. The 6-5, 200 lbs. junior leads Tech in goals, with ten, and in total points, with 17, for the ten games in the WCHA, and hllc; nineteen points over-all this year. Salt currently ranks seventh in the conference in scoring. Like the Irish, Michigan Tech has been getting some strong play from some of its freshmen players. Rich Boehm, a center from Prince Albert, Saskatchewan, is the assist leader for the Huskies with 11, to go along with his four goals. Another freshman center, Glenn Merkosky, is high on the Tech scoring list with ten points. Dave Joelson, who was the leading scorer for the Huskies last year with 47 points, has had a hard time getting started this year. The senior right winger has only two goals and three assists for Tech, but is still a threat. Another top scorer in the past has been senior center Warren Young. Young, who led the Huskies two years ago with 45 points, and scored 30 last year, only has six points in WCHA action this year, but tallied the only Tech hat trick for the season in a non-conference game against Lake Superior State. The top player in the nets for Tech this year has been John Rockwell. The senior goalie, who was one of the best in the WCHA last season with a 3.49 goals against average, currently ranks 
sixth in the league at 4.01, good enough to lead his team to a 4-3 record. Freshman Darcy Way, the Tech backup keeper, is undefeated in the WCHA with a win and a tie in his two games, and has a fine 
4.15 average. 
The Huskies have also been getting some productivity from their yolUig defensive corps. · Tim Watters and John Haddad, a pair of sophomores, have tallied eight points ·each from the point spot. Another soph, Dennis Hjelmquist, who was the top defensive scorer last year is close behind, tied for second on the team with seven assists for his total of seven points. The most experienc­ed defenseman on the team is Nick Schwartz. who has no points but has provided some solid play in the Tech end of the ice. 
On the Irish side, Notre Dame 
players continue to rank highly in 
the WCHA. Center Tom Michalek 
is in third place in scoring with 
eight goals and eleven assists for 
19 points, trailing only Mark 
Johnson of Wisconsin (26) and Neal 
Broten of Minnesota (21). 
Greg Meredith is the leading 
goal in the conference with twelve, 
holding a one goal lead over 
Johnson. The junior winger, who 
has tallied 9 goals in the last four 
games, all Irish wins, ranks ninth 
in overall scoring with 16 points. 
Irish goaltender Dave Laurion 
continues to rank highly in the 
WCHA. The Notre Dame rookie 
has a 3.19 goals against average in 
about eight games, ranking second 
behind Bob Iwabucci, also a fresh­
man from North Dakota, who has a 
1.69 average in a little over four 
games. Laurion's 6-1-J record is by . far the best in the league. 
*Observer 
Sports 
Paterno denies talk 
NEW YORK [AP] -Penn State's Joe Paterno, with the best winning percentage of all active college football coaches, insisted emphati­cally Thursday that he has no desire to move into pro ranks. 
He urged an end to speculation that he might succeed John McCay as coach of the New York Giants in the National Football League. 
"I plan to stay at Penn State as long as I am wanted and as long as we agree on, our football philo­sophy,'' the 51-year-old coach of the nation's top-ranking team said at a New York luncheon honoring Penn State as winner of the Lamber Trophy. 
The trophy is given annually to the major college team voted the best in the East. It marked the 14th time the Lions had won the honor and the lOth time since Paterno became head coach in 1966. 
Penn 'State finished the season with an 11-0 record, the only perfect mark among the major universities, and No. 1 in The Associated Press Poll. The ranking will be challenged Jan. 1 in the 
' 
Sugar Bowl where the Lions meet either Alabama or Georgia. 
Paterno, a bespectacled, profes­sorial one-time Brown quarterback renowned for his rare emphasis on academics and balanced campus life, appeared embarrassed. by repeated questions of whether he would be interested in the Giants' post. 
"Let me emphasize as strongly as I can that l never have been offered the Giants' job," he said. "No one from the Giants has talked to me and neither I talked to them. 
"That's the first point. The second is that such speculation is unfair to McVay, who is still the Giants' coach and doing a good job. 
It is unfair to the Giants, who are trying to salvage the season. It is unfair to our team, preparing as they are for an important bowl game. 
"Please, I would like .to be removed for all such speculation.'' 
Paterno was accompanied by his two co-captains, quarterback Chuck Fusina and linebacker Paul Suhey. 
by Paul Mullaney 
Assistant Sports Editor 
Michigan, DePaul, North Carolina State, Maryland, Marquette and Kentucky are all opponents that Coach Digger Phelps and his 1978-79 Irish basketball squad will face away from thefriendlyconfines of the Athletic andConvocationCenter. 
"Our road schedule is more 
toned toward NCAA play than 
ever before," commented 
Phelps. "They'll all be like 
tourney games, with those cer­
tain conditions.'' 
If these tough games are indeed typical of post-season tourney play, Phelps has only one week and three games to prepare his squad for its first "tourney ·game." Only tomor-· row's afternoon tilt (1:30 tipoff) against Valparaiso, a Monday night contest against Rice, and a Wednesday encounter with Northwestern precede what is perhaps the toughest of this year's away-from-home games --at Pauley Pavillion against UCLA on December 9. 
But Phelps insists the Irish can't afford to look ahead to the sunny climes of Southern California. "Valparaiso will be a solid ball club this year," he claims. "They're going to be quick and they're going to be hungry. We have to be ready to play because they'll take advantage of our mistakes.'' 
Coach Ken Rochlitz' Crusaders, in their second sea­son as an NCAA Division I entry after posting a 6-19 record last year, have dropped two contests after winning their season open­er. 
Valpo defeated Gustavus Adolphus, 97-82, last Friday, and then dropped respective games to Carthage College and Western Michigan by scores of 77-76 and 72-66. 
The Crusaders will rely heav­ily on center Max Kipfer for rebounding imd inside scoring punch. The 6-8 senior from Dundee, Ill., has hit double figures in each of Valpo's first three games, averaging 10.7 points and 8. 7 rebounds per outing. 
Joining Kipfer on the front line will be 6-5 junior Val Martin, a graduate-of John Adams High School in South Bend, and either 6-6 freshman Jeff Simmons or 6-5 senior Ken Pollitz. Martin is the leading Valpo scorer, hitting at a 14.5 clip. 
Sophomore Jamie Macahon, a 6-1 transfer from Weber State, will hold one guard slot, while 6-3 junior Nolan Petties, who missed last season with a kneee injury, will handle the other backcourt position. Macahon has netted 13 points per outing in the first three Crusader missions, while Petties has con­sistently contributed 11.3 points a game. 
Phelps is hopeful to wear down Valpo's front line by using many individuals throughout the game. Bill Laimbeer and Bruce Flowers will alternate at the pivot, while Orlando Woolridge, Kelly Tripucka and Tracy Jackson see most of the action at forward, along with classmate Gil Salinas. 
Rich Branning will start for the Irish at one guard, with either Bill Hanzlik or Stan Wilcox getting the nod at the other spot. Freshman Mike Mitchell will more than likely get a good amount of playing time in his first varsity contest. 
The Irish will be attempting their 66th home opener victory in what starts the 74th season of Notre Dame basketball. But for Phelps, it's the first obstacle in his team's attempt to win 20 games, the amount he feels is necessary to achieve a post­season tourney bid. 
GAME NOTE: Senior Bruce Flowers begins this season 20th on the all-time Irish rebound list. He has pulled down 521 boards, and is now 7 behind Austin Carr, the 19th leading rebounder. He also enters the season third in field goal percentage (career, .551) and ninth in total games played (87). 

