Discusses policies: 
CLC holds first meeting 
by Dave Rombach 
Senior Staff Reporter 
The Campus Life Council, heir­apparent to the defunct Student Life Council (SLC) as the major forum between Notre Dame resi­dents and administrators, estab­lished a press policy, elected a permanent chairman and discussed its future last night in its first meeting of the year. 
Discussion at the meeting was restricted to "business" matters as a number of substantive issues, among them students' rights and "in loco parentis" were considered only as agenda items for the coming year. 
Student Body President Andy McKenna was unopposed in the Council's election of a permanent chairman after discussion among several members concerning the practicality of making the student body president the chairmanship. 
"Having the president the head of the CLC strikes me as too much of a symbiotic union. The CLC would lose much of its efficacy if it were to become an arm of the student government," Fr. Thomas Tallarida, rector of Zahm stated. 
HPC representative Bill Vita supported McKenna stating "we have to look at the person and not just the position I think Andy is the only student qualified." 
In other business the Council 
adopted the press policy of the 
disbanded SLC in which, while all 
regular meetings are to be "open," 
members of the Council reserve the 
right to strike any of their -state­ments from the record. 
All CLC members have the right to call for an "executive session" at the beginning of the meeting during which attendance will be limited to Council members. 
Fr. Eugene Gorski, rector of Howard Hall supported the policy stating that it would "encourage the free flow of communication." 
The policy drew criticism from Observer Editor Tony Pace. "It is my understanding that the CLC is an open meeting and so anything said is a matter of public record," Pace stated, adding, "If they want to make those meetings closed they should· but I think the community would suffer. 
The CLC constitution states "All meetings of the Council shall be open to any member of the Univer­sity community and to representa­tives of the campus media, except when otherwise determined by the Council." The current press policy was adopted without a vote. 
The Council also unanimously accepted an amendment to its bylaws concerning the attendance of ex-officio members, Dean of Students James Roemer and Vice­President for Student Affairs Fr. Van Wolvlear. According to the original constitution these two members were to attend only every other meeting. The amendment changes their attendance to every other meeting and to those ''they have been invited to by the chairman." 
In discussion of the agenda of issues for the coming year, Fr. 
Richard Conyers proposed that the Council consider taking steps to give the CLC legislative powers. 
''A major loss was sustained when the SLC was disbanded. The students lost the only legislative body they had. Conyers added, "I think one of our primary goals should be the attainment of legisla­tive power through this body." 
Conyers statement was con­tended by Roemer who asserted that the SLC never actually had legislative powers and the problem was merely one of semantics. ''The SLC never was legislature in any real sense. Lettingthem(SLC members) think they were, created difficulties. 
One student member who had been a member of the SLC said that while the CLC may not differ from the SLC in terms of legislative power, it did lack a direct line of communication with the University President enjoyed by the former body. 
"SLC proposals had to go through Bro. Just to the top whether he agree!l with them or not. Now the CLC is strictly an advisory council to the office for student affairs," he stated. 
Later in the meeting a remark made by Wolvlear prompted dis­cussion concerning the amount of student representation on the Council. The Council approved the formation of an ad hoc committee by Chairman McKenna to seek ways to increase student input without changing the Council's make-up. 




server 
Monday, September 18, 1978 an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's . Vol. XIII, No. 15 

At Camp David · 
Summit produces breakthrough 
Begin deferred to Sadat and urged three got a kiss from the
CAMP DAVID, Md. [AP] ·Egypt years, administration officials said treat 65 miles southeast to the and Israel, in a major breakthrough last night. White House in Washington for a the Egyptian leader to board president's wife, Rosalynn. 
second. The three men and the Carter acknowledged that atin their 30-year confilct, committed As the summit drew to a close, 10:30 p.m. joint signing of two helicopter were lit by a glare of times the talks faltered. But Carter themselves at the Camp David President Carter joined Egyptian documents containing the agree­floodlights. said the results exceeded all ex·summit to a peace treaty, Israeli President Anwar Sadat and Israeli ments. 
When the helicopter toughed pectations.
withdrawal from the Sinai and full Prime Minister Menachem Begin All three smiled and waved as down on the White House lawn, the Sadat, speaking next at a cere­autonomy for Palestinians in Israeli in a jet helicopter and flew from they boarded the aircraft at Camp three leaders were greeted by some mony in the White House Eastoccupied territories after five Carter's forested Camp Dav:d re-. David. Carter climbed in first. 
so dignitaries and members of the Room, thanked Carter for fulfilling 
White House staff. Each of the [continued on page 2) 
SMC. plans festival 
by Cathy Trageuer occasion. Thursday evening at 8 Tentative plans for the 1978 p.m., the film "Dr. Zhivago" will 
-Oktoberfest sponsored by St. be shown in Carroll Hall. Mary's Social Commission have Plans for a disco dance contest been anounced. October 4, 5, and and a "Gong Show" Happy Hour 6 are the dates selected for the on Friday are being discussed . annual German festival which will Each SMC residence hall will be be highlighted by a biergarten and responsible for decorating its lobby dance, featuring the band "Hot following the Oktoberfest theme. Springs." Hall decorations will be judged by a 
Oktoberfest activities are sched· panel of students and faculty uled to open on Wednesday, Octo­members on Thursday, and a ber 4, with a softball tournament trophy will be awarded to the hall between students and faculty mem· with the most outstanding decora­bers. tions. 
An Oktoberfest Night at Senior The results of .a recent poD Bar, complete with German music · suggested that more activities be and decorations, and an opening planned for underclassmen in order night party for all ND-SMC stu· to involve a greater majority of tbe dents are also planned. student body in Oktoberfest. 
Thursday's activities will include The Oktoberfest committee will a German dinner in the dining hall hold its next meeting Wednesday with a live band providing enter· at 6 p.m., in the Social Commission tainment. Helium balloons and office in the basement of Regina . brown and beige Oktoberfest Hall. Anyone interested in workina · T -shirts will be on sale. on the committee can contact 
The shuttle bus between Notre co-chairpersons NanDe Murray; Dame and St. Mary's will be Jane Ryan, and Ann Sofranko at decorated appropriately for tbe 4987. 

Mon-IAy, September 18, 1978 
the observer 
,....News Briefs____..........._., 
t===================================World 
Earthquake hits Iran 
TEHRAN, Iran-A devastating earthquake that struck a farming region of northeast Iran Saturday killed more than 11,000 persons and destroyed entire cities and villages, the official Pars news agency reported yesterday. The quake, which U.S. seismologists , measured at 7.7 on the Richter scale was the most powerful in recent Iranian history. Officials said they feared the reported death toll would go much higher as word comes in from outlying villages. 

Church blasts censorship 
WARSAW, Poland-The leaders of Poland' powerful Roman Catholic 
'Church, in one of their sharpest challenges yet to the government, called yesterday for the abolition of censorship in this Communist nation, saying it is a "weapon of totalitarian regimes." A pastoral letter signed by all Polish bishops and read from church pulpits yesterday throughout the country also urged the government to allow the broadcasting of religious programs and exhorted the faithful to listen to Vatical Radio. The letjer was the strongest denunciation of censorship made by the church in years. 
t===::::::=::::::=::::::=::::::=::::::=::::::=::::::=::::::=== National 

Dole to run? 
[AP]-Sen. Bob Dole says he will not run for the Republican presidential nomination in 1980 if former President Gerald Ford runs, but he might enter the race if Ronald Reagan chooses to run. "It would be the height of ingratitude to say, 'I tried it. I liked it. I'm going to run.' After all, he Ford picked me out of obscurity" to be his 1976 running mate, Dole said Saturday. 
r=r-===.=-==:=:::::::::-:=:_:=:.=::::::=::::::=:::::::=::::::=::::::==:=::: Local 
'Cities hit by fire 
[APJ-A fire in downtown Muncie yesterday gutted a seven-story office building and another blaze on the north side of Terre Haute damaged four apartments, fire officials said. The Muncie fire, which was discovered about 9 a.m., was out by late Sunday afternoon. In Terre Haute, four fire units brought the four apartment blaze under control in about an hour and a half, officials reported. 

Weather 
Partly cloudy, very warm and humid today and tomorrow. Highs 
both days in the upper 80s. Lows tonight in the upper 60s. 
,_On Campus Today_~ 
5:30pm 
&:30­8 pn'l 
&:30,9 pm 7:30pm 8 pm 
8:15pm 
10:30 pm 
meeting, french club, faculty dining room, south dining hall 
women's self defense class, open to all students, by sgt. joel wolvos of south bend police, sponsored by phys. ed. dept., lafortu11e ballroom 
I 

film, "Black and white in color," third world film festival, engr. aud. 
meeting german club, new members welcome 204 o'shag 
meeting, philadelphia club, grace half penthouse 
concert, deborah davis & william cerny, beethoven cello sonatas, library aud. & lounge 
mass and meeting, nd-smc right to life, breen­phillips chapel. 
*The Observer 
Night Editor: Scoop Sullivan Asst. Night Editor: Jim Rudd 
layout Staff: Margaret Kruse Ann Titus Kathy Connelly 
Editorial Layout: Rosemary Mills Sports Layout: Ray O'Brien Typists: Lisa DiValerio 
Mary McCauley Kim Convey Me 

EMT: Katie Brehl Day Editor: Katie Kilkuskie Copy Reader: Machael Ridenour Ad Layout: Renee Leuchten 
Photographer: Mark Muench 


30 participate in slumber party 

by leslie Brinkley 

Wearing bath robes and toting stuffed animals, 30 Notre Dame women trudged over to Stepan Center Saturday night to participate in a campus-wide slumber party. 
The doors opened at 11:30 p.m., enabling the students to arrange blankets and pillows on the floor in front of a screen to see the mystery movie, "Whatever Happened to Baby Jane?" Popcorn and soda were served during the movie. 
The party was sponsored by Farley, Lewis, and Breen-Phillips halls along with some financial backing from Student Union. Beth Jones, Farley Social Commis­sioner, organized the event and called the evening a success. She said those who attended "had a great time, but I was disappointed that so few people turned up." 
Despite rumors of raids, a security guard was posted outside Stepan Center and no trouble was encoun­tered. Initially, the slumber party was planned to last all night, but all of the party-goers had wandered home by 3:30 a.m. for a comfort­able bed. 
Because of the small response, Jones was uncertain about finaliz­ing plans for a cmapus fashion show. The show is tentatively scheduled for November and would feature Notre Dame students as 
models. . 
Brooks included: 
Candidates to face primaries 
[AP] -Sen. Edward Brooke, a 
liberal Republican, faces a conserv­
ative former talk show host tomor­
row in the Massachusetts primary 
elections. 

Voters in Washington state will 
choose seven congressional candi­
dates in their primary, and Okla­
homans will decide candidates for 
governor and one U.S. Senate seat 
in a runoff election. 

Louisiana Sen. J. Bennett Johns­
ton, a Democrat, won easy re­
election to a second term over state 
Rep. Louis "Woody" Jenkins on 
Saturday in the state's first open 
primary. Johnston was first elec-
Mideast talks produce agreement 

[continued from page 1] his commitment to serve as a "full partner" in the talks. Sadat expressed gratitude to Carter for his "spirit and dedica­tion" and concluded with a prayer that the "spirit of Camp David" would mark a new chapter in Middle East history. Begin, in a tribute to Carter, said "he worked harder than our fore­fathers did in building . the pyramids of Egypt." But before there is peace, Begin noted, Israel and Egypt have three months of negotiations ahead to conclude a peace treaty. Turning to Sadat, the Israeli prime minister said there was no point in recounting the "saga" of their differences during the negotiations. 
The Observer Is published Mon­day through Friday except during eum and vKatlon periods. Tl)e Observer 11 published by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for UO per year (S 10 per semester) from The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Seeond ctaas postage paid, Notre Dame, Indiana, 46556. . The Observer Is 1 member of the AIIOCilted Prell. All repro­duction rights are reaerved. 
ted in 1972 to the seat occupied by 
the late Sen. Allen Ellender for 36 
years. 
Brooke,. 58 years old and a 
two-term incumbent, is being 
challenged by Avi Nelson, 36, a 
talk-show host whose campaign has 
been heavily financed by natidnal 
conservative organizations. 
Both candidates have avoided 
public mention of Brooke's stormy 
divorce proceedings. Earlier this 
summer, Brooke was cleared of 
possible perjury charges in connec­
tion with false statements he made 
about personal finances in divm:ce 
papers fl.led in 1977. 
Candidates in the Democratic senatorial primary are Howard Phillips, founder of the Washing­ton-based Conservative Caucus, Rep. Paul E. Tsongas, Massachu~ setts Secretary of State Paul Guzzi and state Rep. Elaine Noble, an avowed lesbian. 

Massachusetts Gov. Michael S. Dukakis is opposed in the Demo­cratic gubernatorial primary by conservative Edward J. King, former director of the state port authority. 
In the Republican primary, Ed­ward F. King, no relation to the Democratic candidate, who spon­sored a proposed constitutional tax amendment modeled after Cali­fornia's Proposition 13, is running. against House Minority Leader John Rodes. 
Six of Washington State's seven congressmen are expected to win their primaries, with five Republi­cans and five Democrats vying for the seat occupied by retiring Rep. Lloyd Meeds. 
The Oklahoma senatorial pri­mary runoff pits Gov. David Boren against former Rep. Ed Edmonson for the Democratic nomination to the seat held by Republican Dewey Bartlett, who is retiring. Robert Kamm, former president of Okla­homa State University, will be the Republican candidate in the gene­ral election. 



Event schedule to help seniors 
The Placement Bureau has 
arranged a schedule of events 
designed to help graduating 
seniors in their career planning and 
job search. 
First in their line-up is a meeting for each college at which students may learn about their empolyment outlook, good interview tech­niques, manuals, and employers. Registration and sign-up proceed­ures will be explained, followed by a general question and answer session. The meetings will all be held in the CCE auditorium at the following dates and times: Busi­ness Administration, 7 p.m., Sept. 19; Engineering and Science, 7 p.m., Sept. 20; Arts and Letters, 7 p.m., Sept. 21, and MBA, 9 a.m., Sept. 22. 
An open house and sign-up for the first week of on-campus inter­views will be held from Sept. 25 to 28, between 8 a.m. and 4:30 p.m. 
The placement interviews them­selves will begin at 8:30 a.m. on Monday, Oct. 2 and each day following according to the schedule listed in the 1978-79 Placement Manual. 

Monday, September 18, 1978 the observer 



:~~~~~~~~!~,~~~~~:!~~~~-~~~~~~:~~~,:~o~r~~::: ~:~e1 
<tmiles caught in the Nazi terror, last week. "Holocaust" was the favonte. , by John McDermott Education and last approximately 
and "All in the Family," a comedy The awards were interrupted by NBC's miniseries about German three hours. series about America's favorite a joint announcement from the families caught in the Nazi horror "The Academic Council is the Jones stated that the students on bigot, won top honors at the 30th White House by President Carter, had the ?iggest impact among ultimate· academic body,'' accord-the Council are on an equal footing Emmy awards last night. Egyptian President Anwar Sadat programs m the 1977-78 season, ing to Assistant Provost Sr. John with the other members and are 
The 91/2-hour "Holocaust" was and Israeli Priminister Menachem approaching the hit of "Roots" a Miriam Jones. taken seriously. Although students selected as outstanding limited Begin at the conclusion of the season ago. The saga of a black As stated in Article IV of the were only brought into the Council series and won Emmys for stars 12-day Camp David Mideast family in slave-holding America Faculty Handbook, "The principal in 1970. Jones felt that the students Michael Moriarty, the sadistic Nazi summit. won nine Emmys. functions of the Council are to have made some excellent contri­major, and Meryl Streep, the For the fifth time, the saga of The multiple awards evoked an determine general academic poli-butions. "We have really been Christian daughter-in-law of the Archie Bunker and family was outpouring of thanks to everyone cies and regulations of the Univer-blessed with some great students,'· doomed Weiss family. named outstanding comedy series connected with ''All in the sity: to consider the recommenda-Jones said. 
The total awards for by the academy and stars Carroll Family," and Miss Stapleton cited tions of the Graduate Council; to Jones sees the students' involve­
" Holocaust'' came to seven. in-O'Connor and Jean Stapleton were the gift of "artistic freedom from approve major changes in the ment in the Council as a "two wav I hailed outstanding lead performers the day one" which the show's requirements for admission to and street." "We really benefit from in a comedy series for a third time. creators were accorded. graduation from the Colleges and the students. They present anRight. tO Life Rob Reiner, the liberal-minded Schools and in the program~ of aspect of campus life that we need "meathead" of the show won his SMC candidates study offered by Colleges. Schools. to be reminded of. At the sametO hold meetingI second Emmy for supporting actor, and Departments; to authorize the time the students benc!it b\ and awards also went to director f establishment. modification. or observing the ongoings of the group inviteS Paul Bogart and writers Bob Campaign Or discontinuance of any academic University first hand. It's a great Weiskopf, Bob Schiller, Barry organization of the University; and experience." Jones also describ­neW members Harman and Harve Brosten. Sept. 25 election to provide for rcvie\\', amendment. cd the students' involvement a,; 
The only winner to break the and tina! interpretation of the both "growtr. producing. challcng· "All in the Family'sweep was Julie Academic Manual. The decisions ing. and fun." The organizational meeting of the Kavner, Brenda Morganstern of The SMC Freshman Council and of the Council arc reached by Calling the Council the "pre-I ND-SMC Right to Life group will ••Rhoda," who was selected best Student Assembly elections are majority vote and are subject to the server of academic policies.·' Jone> take place after a 10·30 p m Mass · d ttnderway wt'th p-latforms for all ·d h h c ·1 ... h
· " · · supporting actre~s m a com y approval of the President." Sal t at t e ounct msures t e in Breen-Phil'ips chapel on Mon-series. c~n.didates to be po_stc? in the The Council is made up of integrity of the academic enter-day, September J8tl-I. Fr. John "The Rockford Files," with dmm~ hall. the_ca~lpmgmng began administrators. faculty. and stu-prise." Fitzgerald of Camp ts Ministry will James Garner as an ex-con turned la~t ~tght at mtdmght and ends at dents from each of the four colleges A member of the Council for the celebrate the mass for the sanctity private eye, was named outstand-n11dmg~t on Sept. 24. . The other three undergraduate last two years. Jones encouraged 
1

of life. ing drama series. Emmys for Ele~tton day Is_ Sept. 2S from 10 representatives are the Student all students to submit an applica-
New and old members are en-outstanding leads in a drama series a.n. ttll 6 p.m._ 111 LeMa_ns. The ~Government Academic Affairs tion for membership on the "Ouraged to attend and join various were awarded to Sada Thompson of freshman c?~~ctl meets bt~monthly ·Commissioner. one student from Council. committees for the '78-'79 school "Family" and Edward Asner of to plan ~cttvlttes for the ~reshm_an the Graduate School. and a student Interested students mav submit year. Topics discussed will include "Lou Grant." It was Asner's sixth cla~s wtth. one of thetr maJor from the other programs of their names and brief stat~ment of. the Woman's Pavilion abortion Emmy. proJects bemg the Freshman For-advanced studies. purpose to the proper Nominating: clinic in South Bend and the March "Lou Grant" also won an Emmy mal. They select on~ person from The Council meets regularly at Committee, in care of their re~pec­for Life in Washington on January for Nancy Marchand. chosen out-the 1_4 member council to represent least once each semester. or when-tivc Dean's Office. in or b·.fore 
22nd. standing supporting actress in a the freshman class on the board of ever the President feels a meeting September 20, 1978. The names of 
A represcntativ.! of St. Joseph drama series for her protrayal of a Governance. needs to be called. Meetings are the students chosen will be an-County Rl,~ht to Life will be on newspaper publisher. The Student Assembly meets held at the Center for Continuing nounced on Sept. 27. hand to discuss joint projects Robert Vaughn won the support-bi-monthly with representatives • • between the two right to life ing actor Emmy for a drama series from each hall and off"campus. • • e e • • • • • e e e e e ! ....e e e e e • e !.'·•••••' groups. Faculty member~ and staff as an H.R. Haldeman-like char-They vote on financila matters of e :0 ....···'· ...,.······ .....• are also encouraged to attend. acter in "Washington: Behind the college Student government as e ~ 1J..'-..•..···• ......· • 
Anyone unable to get to the Cl d D .. well as college policy changes. · e l 0 ······ •··· 
but who would like to ose"Holocaust" scored awards in a This years election commissioners •: • L~9s·· ·· ·· •.••• • ········· •:
meeting. oors. receive a newsletter, should call drama series category for writer are Noreen Bracken and Cari 
c ..... · 

eitt:er Mary Anne Hughes at 1278 Gerald Green and director Marvin Trousdale. •••••• ••••• e ,O:..~"!e_!l!!~o~.!.t.E/.!:~~:...-m::===========================t •••••••••• • • 
Football Special ~ STORYTELLERS needed by 3-5 year olds ··.. Michigan State tickets may be :. 1 1 day care center. Males preferred. I EVERY mONDAY picked up at Junior class office in : J ~IGHT' WORK WITH ELDERLY: light clean-up 'LaFortune Basement Tues., Sept. 19 : I s].OO duties (your convenience) or nursing home from 1:00-5:00 Il 
_11 at lc,uies's visits (pianists requested). Bring ID
8 I Call Anne Marie, Volunteer Services, 7308. 
THE NEW. 
402 Dixieway North 

BARNABY'S
p•••CUPCOUPON••••i 
ONE FREE HAMBURGER PER COUPON 
NOW OPEN 
~p 
Grape Road & Edison 
Straight down Edison, 2 miles from campus -you can't miss itl,


FREE ~ 
HAMBURGER ~ Quick Service on Noon Lunches 
Now at Wendy's Old ~ Fashioned Hamburgers this ~ coupon entitles you to a free 

Serving Pizza*Sandwiches* Soft Drinks 
Single Hamburger with the purchase of two hamburgers of anysizL 
Carry -Outs ... Phone 256-0928 
PRESENT COUPON WHEN ORDERING 
•

·-----·-------· ~-Open 11'am-11:30 pm Mon. thru Thurs. --Fri. & Sat. 11-12:30 Gi~lli.~ OPEN SUNDAY 4 PM 'Tll.. 10 PM
OCCO'S 
p---~--,

r-_j

BARBERS 

t=--1 visit BARNABY'S 715 E. Jefferson, South Bend 
hairstylists w®.~ 531 N. Michigan ~=-~ame Hours, Same Friendly Service -288-4981 
233-4957 





Residents speak 
Dear Edltorz 
We, the inhabitants of the study lounges of Planner Hall, would like to express our opinion on the present housing situation. This is something that affects us directly, 
1 yet we have had no say in the matter, save through our rector:, Br. Peter Mahoney. 
At the time of this writing, there are fourteen freshmen being housed in the study lounges of Flanner. We are comfortable in our present environment and do not wish to leave it. We have become well acquainted with our roommates, as well as many other people living in Flanner. These friendships have become valuable to us as we have been able to help each other and have received help 
and information .from the upper­classmen we know in the hall. To move us out would force us to 
lack of foresight by Jast year's f attended my first Notre Dame .......• student gov~nmt;nt; .. the demands...· 
. football game last Saturday. Even reported in Friday's Oh.;ver are 
'A'~h~ morefaVQl"able outcome and better ··weather l woUld not havedoomed from the start.
DOOI'ISBUBY enjoyed it. Why? Because lbate
Chrls.Stnlth. 
standing. lcan'fstand to stand. 


o/J Gt3'fot~­
GO 70 7}(1; ~? IJEiL, II), 511<, 8IfT 
liP& '1WMAR KJI)? I JlJ5T CAN'TSIT 
'tOIJ 14¥WT70 f£T BY ANfJ I4JIITCH jlHE fJHJlE FfOIT TIE liM'PIJINBJ : m:ICE. BUSTE/7! IH fOMIC/PAL 
opm1on 

The Teacher 
lessen and possibly break these friendships and force us to make new ones, a difficult and time consuming task for som.eone settling into the college program for the first time. 
In our opinion, we have been treated poorly by the Department of Student Housing. We have been told at one time we will be moving in a week, the next time we are told we'll be staying for the semester. It is very upsetting living in this state of limbo. Plans are made (decorating the room, buying refrigerators, etc.), then they are scrapped because of new infor­mation coming out of the Depart~ ment of Student Housing. 
We enjoy living in Planner Hall and at Notre Dame, but it is very trying on a freshman when the housing situation is unclear and no opinions are asked. We would appreciate a meeting with the Director of Student Housing at which time we could express our opinions and discuss the situation with those involved in making the 
SIR, I MAY BE A /..l77l..E (){J)-FASHIONt:P_ BUTALL 
7HESE rMR:AMPf/Jf'tA'IER5 
8ASHIN6 FACJI O!HEI?.5 f/lAJN5 (J(JT•• DAN 7HifT BE GOOO 
FOR 7HE GAME? 
\ 

SIR, I'Ve DECJ[)E[) 7D 607D7HE 
ffl)S. 
I 


"BOY, 15, 
AXE!JBY 
!lEOSKJN5' PRUG we." 
I 

· · .· pever be permitted by the At:lm,inJs. tration to give t.he CLC .the power. 
.·Dear Editor: 
the SLC once had; Thus, due t<> a 

*The Observer 
I1JOI(, RILEY! 7HI5 /5 RKJ/8AU! 70 ~HAR.­

an independent newspaper serving the P.O. Box Q
RY 71?1/MAN, IF '!WCAN'T '1W 

notre dame and saint mary's community Notre Dame, ln.
7AK£ 7JIE HEifT, THEN6CT tET7lNG 
7}(1; HEI.J. (JfT fFNllfii!64KJ! Mt Go, 
The Observer is published bv students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administoration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries and letters are the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and the tree expression of varying opinions on campus, through 
IPtters, is encouraged. 

EDITORIAL BOARD Tony Pace Editor-in-Chief Steve Odland Managing Editor John Calcutt Executive Editor Barb Langhenry ExPcutive Editor Rosemary Mills Editorial Fditor 
Phil Cackley 
Jean Powley Ann Gales Mike Lewis Diane Wilson 
Ray O'Brien Bryan Gruley Doug Christiah 
Mardi Nevin John Tucker Bob Rudy 

Vol. XIII, No. 15 Monday, September'18, 1978 

and the Researcher 
decision. The goal of a good 
• • • f 

education and a well-rounded in-t---------------JIDl sei ert 
dividual is difficult to achieve when the individual is left in the back· ground. 
The Members of F1anber Hall Study Lounges 
Demands 

doomed 
Dear Editor: 

Now 1know l've seenJt atl. The top stories in Friday's Ubse.rv!r concerned new demands for stu~ dent rights. An ad hoc oommlttee :which include$ hall presidef!ts, the SBP, the Student Union Director and· the Observer Editor-in-Chief has been formed to obtain legisla· · tive and veto powers for the CLC in matters relating to student affaiti. 
If one browses through back issues ofthe Observer fr<>m thelate 60's, it may be noted that a legislative committee was formed to deal with student matters. This committee was named the Student Life Council (SLC), and it was composed of eight Administrators, eight faculty members and eight students. 
In its early years, the SLC!s meetings, which were open to the public, were weU~attended. As tbe premierforum for student opinil)n, the SLC was largely responsil:!le for the changes in student sooal life that t:ame about at: thattime. .· 
During the 70's, due. io .al,lacl;ty. 
•nd neglect, the $J-C slid )ntQ a · period of trying to q9f!ne . !~~ purpose, and did littl~. ~ore.Jh~~ pay Up service to the issues of tbe 
. day. During this perii)(J., too~ tbe .Administration stopped taking ·the SLC seriously, due mostly to a llimilr lack ofre5pect ])y the student 
body. · Thus, when SBP Dave Bender 
retired the SLC last year, it went l,)ut wihtout so much as a whimper; He replaced jt with his CLC, a body 
similar in organization and pur• pose,but lacking any legislative 
power. Whereas the SLC had such '-:':-~~--.,.--.,.-----,.,.-----a_rt_i_ci_e_w_i_ll_b_e_fi_n_is h_e_d_.'_'---­
~1•iiia::::: ;,~;.~ ··· might have been able tO breath life b d · in to the rusty SLC{ l:!ut they will e Seate 


Copy Editor Saint Mary's Editor News Editor News Editor News Editor Sports Editor Features Editor Photo Editor 
Production Manager Business Manager Advertising Manager 
There are two basic criteria by which a modem university is judged: the size of its endowment and the amount of quality research it does. If both criteria reach a certain level, the institution is named as one of the nation's outstanding academic universi­ties. 
It is more difficult to produce quality research. To be distin­guished in research (whatever that means, 1 Nobel Prize every 5 years or a Fr. Neiuwland every 10 years) 
requires  a  faculty  which  has  re­ 
search  as  top  priority.  Such  a  
faculty  will  undoubtedly  do  the  

"teaching" they are required to do, but their major efforts will be in research. Popular research has money, glory and prestige. 
To a student, the most important component of a university is a good teacher. A good professor is ~someone who has his heart in teaching; is concerned about the progress of his students; is avail· able to his students; and is willing to help a student understand even the most seemingly trivial con· cepts. 
Where does quality teaching fit in the priority list of an "outstand­ing university?'' The answer is obvious . after research. Placing major emphasis on research is the worst injustice a university can level on its students. 
Indeed, the ideal of a university administration is to hire someone who is an excellent researcher and an equally excellent teacher; but this is rarely possible. During three years of undergradute study it has been my experience that the ex· 
cellent researcher (the one who trys to publish the most) is a poor teacher. Some people are, by 
nature, excellent teachers; and others, also by nature, are ex· cellent researchers. Those who can do both are extremely rare. 
. steen put on one of the best rock and roll shows ever--butthe "Food ~ht'r number was in fact "A QUarter TU Three" by the almost 
legendary Gary "U.S." bonds. Obviously even Bruce has found >:{~e to take in "Animal House" a {few times between dates. ·· ·• .•· i As an original prisoner ofrock and · · wanted to help out a new 
A student spends half of his time at this school standing. So why. during the highlight of the week, should we subject ourselves to more standing? I witnessed the same thing at the Springsteen concert that same evening. 
Now, I can understand students getting excited at a concert or a football game and standing up: I do it myself; but not through the whole thing. I'm sure that perhaps a few students enjoy standing; let's send them to West Point. 
As for the rest of us, let's sit down and have a good time, even without . our beer. I'll be at the Michigan game and if things remain the same, there will be ~me more 
J,ltudent pass for sale. 
Bear Gibbons 
Curiosity has taken hold of me. What group recorded the original version of "Food Fight"? This SO's rocker (according to Stephen 
<Belmont) has slipped from my memory. ·I, too, agree that Bruce Spring· 
Desiring good researchers is not altogether bad. It is good for the image of the school; and it attracts many applicants. But, in this instance, what is right for the university is not right for the students. Emphasis on research, while adding to the university's image, detracts from the education of the majority of its students. 
A viable, but expensive, alterna­tive would be for a university to hire one faculty for their teaching qualities, and another for their research qualities. By hiring two faculties, it would enable each to devote their time doing what they do best. In this way the needs of the students are satisfied and the image of the school is also impro­ved. If this alternative is not possible the needs of the students should be met first. Students are the reason a university exists. 
The Campaign for Notre Dame will double Notre Dame's endow­ment, and meet the first criterion for a distinguished university. Dr. O'Meara, the new provost, con­stantly emphasizes the need for hiring more quality research faculty members and meeting the second criterion. The picture is quite clear. The character of Notre Dame, and most importantly, the character of Notre Dame's faculty is in the process of a marked change. The push for research over teaching is unquestionably the trend. Without the right quality and right quantity of research, any brilliant but untenured faculty member could be let go. 
A university is the "natural" home for research, but it must be in balance with teaching. Notre Dame may be heading toward an era when a student might ask a professor, ''Dr. Smith, will you explain Bohr's atomic theory a­gain?" , only to be answered by "talk to m~ next week when my 


President Samoza claims: ~ 




Venezuel~ supports insurgents 
MANAGUA, Nicaragua [AP] • President Anastasio Somoza's gov­ernment, claiming near-victory against rebels in the north, said yesterday that Venezuela had thrown its military support behind the insurgents, sending warplanes to back a rebel attack in the south. 
The Information Ministry State­ment said Venezuelan planes based in Costa Rica had provided support for a rebel attack on the key Nicaraguan post of Penas Blancas, on the Costa Rican border. 
Costa Rica quickly denied the Nicaraguan claim. There was no immediate comment reported from Venezuela. 
National guard headquarters in Managua, meanwhile, said its forces had completely retaken the northern city of Leon, the country's second-largest. "The communist faction which had taken the city" had been overpowered, a guard statement said. 
The guard said government troops also were fighting rebels in Chinan­dega and Esteli. The rebels, led by guerrilas of the left-leaning Sandin­ista National Liberation Front, launched a general uprising last weekend in an effort to drive the authoritarian Somoza from power. 
Associated Press correspondent Lew Wheaton reported from Leon that entire blocks of the city of 100,000 people lay in ruins after the battle. 
-f"Corby's i .' 
~-~,­
;i,,•••• 
HOWARD COSELL
""' --------~ ­
FOOTBALL SPECIAL 
From beginning kick -off untihhe final guh 
Big Mouth Draft 35t each 3 for 51.00 Mixed Drinks 75¢ each All Canned Beer 60¢ each 
SOPHOMORE CLASS Michigan State Football· Ticket Lottery 
' 

Date: Wednesday, September 20 
Where: Rathskeller (Basement of LaFortune 
Time: ID's taken from 7:00·7:30 pm 
Cost: sl5.00 All tickets include bus ride 
~Each ID may purchase two tickets 
ALL MAJOR SPORTS ON 7FT T.V. 
SHAKEY'S 

SUPER SUPPER
FAMOUS 
s. 7:30 
MON -TUES -WED Pizza-Chicken· ·Spaghetti-Salad 
All You Can Eat 
"Somoza must go" a stunned Leon woman said. "Only a madman would do something like this. We are not Communists here. Just Common people." 
Adding to this Central American nation's troubles was Hurrican Greta, which moved into the north­east Nicaragua--eastern Honduras region Sunday and threatened to wreak wide-spread damage. 
The government statement said the attack on the southern town of Penas Blancas by left-leaning guer­rillas occurred at 4 a.m. The small town straddles the Pan American 
Highway, the only paved road connecting Managua and Costa Rica. 
Sources in Managua said the outpost was overrun by rebels and a large supply of heavy caliber automatic weapons and ammuni­tion captured. 
Carlos Gutierrez, an anti-Somoza • campus address and phone num­
opposition leader here, said the Sandinistas blew up a Pan Amer­ican Highway bridge over a small river near the border. He said the Sandinistas would hold the border strip for at least 72 hours, declare a ''free territory'' and ask for inter­national recognition of a provi­sional government. 
If Costa Rica recognizes the provisional government, diplomats
in Central America speculated, anti-Somoza forces could easily be reinforced in a fight northward along the Pan American Highway to Managua. 
The Venezuelan government has been sharply critical of Somoza and has called for international media­tion to end the conflict here. 

The Observer 

lists drop spots 
The following is a list of drop spots intended for the undergrad­uate-students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. Any questions or suggestions should be directed to: The Observer Circulation Dept. Box Q Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 or telephone 7471. 
Be sure to leave your name, 
her. 
ROTC Building South Dining Hall Administration Building Observer Office Tom Dooley Room--LaFortune O'Shaughnessy Hall North Dining Hall Memorial Library 
IAI.....'Y.MMMNWWWW'Y.MMMMM'NWWWWWWY..MMMMNWIIVWV'IIYWYW~ 
Jim Speier performed in the Nazz's opening night last Saturday. [Photo by Mark Muench[. 

Now get the best Pizza in t~wn delivered right to your door, 
nightly from 6·1 0 pm 
SEE WIDE SCREEN FOOTBALL! 
HAPPY HOURS! Mon.-Fri., 5·7pm Mug of Stroh's or Pabst, just 25$ 
ENGINEERING SENIORS 



''OPEN HOUSE'' 
McDONNELL DOUGLAS -ST. LOUIS THE LEADING AEROSPACE CORPORATION, IS HAVING AN "OPEN HOUSE" FOR ENGINEERING SENIORS INTERESTED IN LEARNING MORE ABOUT JOB OPPORTUNITIES 
• 
Talk with recent engineering graduates presently working with McDonnell Douglas 

• 
Refreshments 


• 
Movies-Fighter & Commercial Aircraft, Spacecraft, Missile Programs 

• 
Brochures of all aerospace programs 


7:00 to 9:00 PM 

Monday, Septemb~r 25 Morris Inn 
An Equal Opportunity Employer U.5. Citizenship Required 
31 N. /..T DARDEN RD. NORTH VILLAGE MAid. 272·0945. 

the ObServer Monday, September 18, 1978 
As part of $400,000 renovation: 
LaFortune receives furniture 
by Tom Jac)lman 
Butcherblock tables and chairs were installed last week in the first floor lounge of LaFortune Student Center, completing a highly visible facet of the S400,000 LaFortune renovation project. The question of whether or not this will help bring about increased use of the Student 
Center is as yet unanswered. 
Student Body President Andy McKenna said yesterday that he feels it's "definitely a good change, and the atmosphere has changed considerably. If people want to relax, they can go upstairs to the ballroom (where the old sofas are not located)." The furniture change was made "to make it a bit more of a social area,'' McKenna said, adding that the new tables would provide a ''better food facility" after the renovation of the Huddle. 
Mike Roohan, student body vice­president, also approved of the changes. "The 'Airport Lounge' (a nickname for the previous set-up) was too spread out. The new furniture adds more close contact," he stated. Roohan felt the lounge will get more use "after the first barrage of tests, when student apathy sets in." He also highly commended Bro. Kiernan Ryan, assistant vice-president for Busi­ness Affairs and the overseer of the project, for doing an "excellent job." 
However, Roo han said he feels that more than just renovation is needed. "Basically, we need a new 
s1.00 at the door and 10¢ drafts 8 ttil 10 
,..~~VV~~"-"~~~~~~~~"'~~~VW~~"~"~~~~~~~~~~~W~~"~~~WII able clothing is recom~ended. 
a a I a •:::>.
q a 

•
QUEEN'S HAIR FASHIONS 
River Bend Plaza 232-2194 
We invite you into our new branch salon for beauty with a touch of Royalty and prices thai are affordable. 
Grand Opening Specials 
$15.88 Bonat Perm  $20.88 Bonat Fragrant  
regularly $30  Styling Included  regularly $35  
Tues and Wed. 8:30-5:00  
r•  Thurs and Fri 8:30-8:30 Sat. 8:00-5:00' • •  I  •  • •  232-2194 • •  

building. Student centers on a lot of campuses offer a lot of things, and so does this one, but theirs were designed for that purpose. This was designed as a science building," Roohan said. 
He added that next year the student government hopes to spon­sor a LaFortune Night, with movies and activities taking place all over the building, as a means of arousing interest in the building. 
Moves to increase usage ofLaFor­tune began last year as students claimed that no one used the buiiding, and that the library was a better place to socialize than the student center. 
The management of_ LaFortune, however, released a statement over the summer which said, "Even though some say the LaFortune Student Center is not used much, we would like to have some people know the facts recorded during the 1977-78 school year." The state­ment pointed out that the ballroom was in use for 134 one-half hour to four hour periods, and the ampi­theatre for 107 periods. 
The lounge change was one of the final projects of the renovation, which will be completed by the Huddle renovation and the installa­tion of an elevator. All money for the project was donated by the LaFortune family. 
The Huddle will close one week before the Christmas break to undergo complete renovation over the holidays. McKenna said that the fast-food restaurant will be "more like a McDonald's-type place, with a 'Country Store' on the side serving various meats and cheeses.'' 
Since the Huddle will be closed during the week of final exame, arrangements are being made to keep the pay cafeteria open until midnight during that period. 
Use of the lounge seems to have increased noticeably during the mid-afternpon periods, but few people were in the lounge after dinner. Most people expressed indifference to the changes, though one said, "I don'td like it--it looks like Kubiak's." One person study­ing after dinner noted, "It seems more like a library than a lounge. I kind of liked those old sofas." 

Davis, Cerny to perform 
The Notre Dame Concert Series will present Notre Dame music faculty Deborah Davis, cello, and William Cerny, piano, in the complete cycle of the Beethoven cello sonatas, to be performed in two segments 8:15 p.m. Monday and 8:15 p.m. Wednesday. 
Both recitals, which are ope·n to the public without charge, are to be held in the Library Auditorium. Davis, who holds a Master of Music with the Performer's Certificate from Indiana University at Bloom­ington, is instructor of music at Notre Dame and principal cellist of the South Bend Symphony. 
Cerny, a graduate of Yale, is chair­man of the Notre Dame music department. Davis and Cerny, with tile addition of Assistant Professbr Adrian Bryttan, form the Notre Dame Piano Trio. 
Monday's program will comprise three sonatas from Beethoven's early and middle periods. 
Wednesday's program concludes the cycle with a performance of the opus 102 sonatas, written at the beginning of Beethoven's final period. 

PE department holdS Self-defense ClaSSeS 
Beginning Monday, Sept. 18, the Physical Education department will sponsor a series of six classes on women's self-defense. These classes, which will run from 6:30-8 
p.m. in the LaFortune ballroom, will be taught by Sgt. Joel Wolvos of the South Bend Police Depart­ment. 
In the first class, Sgt. Wolvos will discuss the psychological makeup of an attacker and methods to verbally dissuade him. Subsequent classes will concentrate on the six major holds that an attacker might use and ways to escape these. 
All ND-SMC students are invited to attend these classes, which will meet on Monday and Wednesday for the next three weeks. Comfort­


rQb.L~~)TY by Michael 
Molinelli 
"RJN/GHT, DAVt; SAID Jr WA5 11ME I,JE F~HALLYESlifSLL5H· 


Counseling center opens for area and campus use 

by Kate Kllkuskie 

. A new counseling center avail­able to the residents of the South Bend-Notre Dame-St. Mary's community opened on Labor Day. Located at theFatimaRetreat House across from St. Mary's College, the St. Joseph Valley Pastoral Counsel­ing Center is now open to people of all faiths, races, and non-religious groups. 
John A. Struzzo, Ph.J?.• has 
recently accepted the appomtment as director of the Center. "The Pastoral Counseling Center is not trying to impose religious beliefs on others. It joins religious values with the physical psychological, and emotional aspects of the indi­vidual in his treatment. Through this couseling we are helping people to realize their full po­tential," Struzzo said. 


C~ERT 


OOLCLARK 
&FRIEN~ 

Fri., Sept. 29 -8 pm Notre Dame Library Aud . 
(Donations will be taken) 

Presented by THE SPIRITUAL nDCK of Nour Oo~mr 
SEE PRO BASKETBALL (Pre Season Game) CHICAGO BULLS (with Scott May and Artis Gilmore) 
vs. 
MILWAUKEE BUCKS (with Kent Benson, Quinn Buckner and Marques Johnson) 
SUN. SEPT. 24 7:30pm 
NOTRE DAME A.C.C &JJ;
• c--l v.,.,
Tickets: $2.50-$5-$6 · 
ND & SMC students $1.00 OFF on Regular $2.50 ticket L, / ON SALE! ACC GATE 10 BoxMILWJU!~E Office Mon-Sat 9am-Spm BUCKSI 
Struzzo, a Holy Cross priest, believes that beneath every illness, no matter what its origin, is health. It is the aim of the counselor to reinforce this idea to the individual. The present program of the Center offers therapy for any individual, marital, or group problem. Struzzo added that a training program for clergy and professionals in pastoral counseling skills will be established in the near future. 
The St. Joseph Valley Pastoral Counseling Center is affiliated with the Institute of Religion and Health in New York City. It is a non-profit organization, requiring the finan­cial support of the community. A fee is charged in accordance with the ability of the individual to pay. 
Anyone wishing further informa­tion should contact Struzzo at 288-6360. 
" 


45 -ring 15 Tristan's beloved 
ACROSS 47 Sympathy's partner 17 Neighbor of Uruguay 1 Rows of cut grain 48 New Testament book (abbr.) 7 Actress Mason 50 Range type 22 Heretofore (2 wds.)
13 Shaving creams 51 Shouts of discovery 23 Width of a narrow 15 Vocalizes 52 Classic TV comedy road (2 wds.) 16 Big Eight team series (2 wds.) 24 Well-known airline 
(2 wds.) 57 Poe girl, et al. 25 Being evasive 18 Estrange from a 58 Name for a terrier 28 Prepare for 
habit 59 Born first 30 Fess Parker role 19 Spanish gold 60 Movie part (2 wds.) 35 Pitcher Paige 20 Part of Fred Flint-36 Make believe 
stone phrase 37 Sills 21 Military branch DOWN 38 Earthquakes 
(abbr.) 1 Decelerate 39 Art lover 22 Fastened with a pin 2 Sees the light 40 Candle fat 26 Map part (2 wds.) 41 One of famous 27 Part of a golf game 3 National league musical group 29 Smearers team 43 Ta 1ked disrespect­31 Conference with the 4 Comparison word fully 
enemy 5 Amused expression 46 Scarlett's closing32 Accompany 6 Sellout sign word 33 Everything 7 Telephone-dial 49 Brake part 34 Sout decision trio 51 Feed the kitty 35 -cord 8 From -Z 53 Eithers' partners38 Fishing nets 9 Round: Fr. 54 Part of NNP 41 l~i thout exception 10 Gym shoe 55 Ca 1en dar abbrevi­
(2 wds.) 11-T. Gillis ation 42 Hemingway, et al. 12 Analyzes 56 Expression of 44 Summer in Sedan 14 Like Los Angeles wonderment. 



Classifieds 
NOTICES 
Special Discount to all NO and SMC students on automotive parts. All you need is your ID card. Hoffman Bros. Auto Electric 1101 E. Madison So. Bend 
Typing-selectric typewriter. Experienced -term papers, dissertations. Reasonable -accurate. 232-5715 
FOR RENT 
F<ir rent -Good 5 bed possibility on fenced 3/4 acre yard. 4blocks from Notre Dame, partially furnished, utilities not included. 272-7365 Terry. 
COuntry house -furnished room for rent. nine minutes travel 277-3604 
For rent 4 bedroom house, partially furnished, fenced back yard, garage. 731 South Bend Avenue. Perfect college rental. Call 259-9702 or 259-9613. 
LOST &FOUND 
Lost: Bulova watch silver, snap closure band, call Mike 6809 
Found: Sensitive and incriminating I D at the SMC senior picnic... Guess who? 
WANTED 
Will trade "Yes" tickets for Michigan, student passes. Mark 3138 
Father returning to NO after 20 years. Need 1GA ticket for Pitt game. Call Rose at 1320 
Will trade a balck and white TV for student ticket for Michigan 7683 
Hillbilly family coming from California to learn about football. Need GA or student tickets for Michigan. Will also take Purdue to Pitt GA tickets. Call 3489-ask for Jethro 
Desperately need 2 GA tix for Michigan Will pay BIG bucks Call Bill 8333 
Rich unc!e will cut me out of his will unless I pt him 2 G.A. Mich. tix Will pay top ! Laurie SMC-4679 
AddressE ·s Wanted Immediately! Work at home --no experience necessary ­excellent pay. Write American Service, 8350 Par~ Lane Suite 127, Dallas TX 75231 
Wanted 2 GA Pitt tix John 8281 
Despera ly need two GA tickets to any home ga 1e. Scott 1624 Need 2 GA tickets for Purdue and/or Tenn. Will pay big$$$ 288-4211 
Desperately need 3 Michigan tickets for friend. Call Billy -289-7690 
I need Purdue tickets Will pay big bicks Call Joe 1780 
I need on Student ticket for Michigan game. Will pay anything. Call Charlie at 
8582 
Need 2 GA or student tickets for Michigan John 1785 
Will exchange 2 Pitt or 2 Miami or 2 Tenn. tickets for 2 GA Michigan tickets. Call Sheila 4-4412 
Need Michigan student tickets or will be shot by angry friends Call Pete 8795 
Needed: 2 GA tickets to Purdue, Pitt and/or Tennessee. Call John 8828 
Independently wealthy businessman wants 2 Michigan GA's Call now 8372 
Wanted: Full and part time cocktail waitresses for our Gipper's Lounge. For more info. call 272-6600. Ext. 472 
Wanted; 2-4-GA Michigan tickets Call Bob 289-1412 · 
Will grade my Michigan ticket for your Pitt ticket. Joe 233-9771 
Wanted: 2-4-GA tlx for Purdue. Please help! I'm desperate. Call Laura 6731. 
FOOTBALL PHOTOGRAPHS WANTED I N D action shots needed for new book. Large acknowledgement; small renu­meration. Icarus Press POB 11 NO, Ind. 46556 291-3200 
Desperately need any amount of GA tickets. Call Jim 1529 
Need 4 GA Michigan tickets. Call Ruth 7136 afternoons 272-3513 evenings. 
I need GA tix for Michigan. Will pay $$. Call Gary 6143 
Mom and Dad need 2 tickets for Purdue Call Dan 8252 
Desperately need two Michigan GA tix. Call Cindy 4-1-5484 
Michigan game! Will pay huge piles of greenback for tickets of any kind. Call Pay 289-3863 
Please show compassion! 'Nnd GA tickets to Purdue. Call Mike 6551 
Will pay $$$. Need Purdue tickets (GA) Call Bob at 1780. . 
Monday, September 18, 1978 
the observer 
7 


Bender interprets Monod's book 
by Laura Larimore Staff Reporter 

Dr. Harvey Bender, professor of genetics, addressed students in the freshman humanities program with his interpretation of Jacques Monod's book, Chance and Necessity, last night in the Library Auditorium. 
The book gives Monod's ideas on the foundation of life from both biological and philosophical view­points. 
As background information, 
• Bender gave a short discussion of 
biological principles as they related 
Canadian Brass to open .series 
The Canadian Brass will open the Saint Mary's College Performing Arts Series at 8 p.m. on Tuesday, September 19 in O'Laughlin Audi­torium. General admission tickets are $3.50 and student tickets are $2.00. Tickets may be reserved by calling the ticket office, 284-4176, from 9 a.m,.,.=noon and from 1-4 p.m. The Canadian Brass is composed of two trumpets, a tromQone, French horn and tuba. 
The quintet has adapted a wide range of works to the brass ensemble treatment, including the "Galliard Battaglia" by Samuel Scheidt, Handel's "Water Music" and Purcell's "Sonata fro Two Trumpets." Their program also includes Scott Joplin ragtime piece·s,J and a specially com­missioned work, "Taking a Stand," by John Beckwith. 
Desperately need GA tickets for Michi­gan. Call Joe 8691 
Desperately Need 10 Michigan tickets. Student or GA. 8721 evenings. 
Need GA and student tickets for all home games, especially Michigan. Call Jerry 3795. 
Need many tickets to Tenn. game. Student or GA Call Mary 6850 
Anxious to trade 2 MSU tix for 2 Pitt. Call 283-6539 or 277-3333 
Need 2 GA Michigan tix!! Please. Call Kristin 7968 
Desperately need one student or G.A. ticket to Michigan game. Call 1842. 
Desperately nead one student or GA ticket to Michigan game. Call1842. 
Wanted: four tickets to Michigan game. Call 277-2944 after 6 p.m. 
Parttime, evening personnel wanted. $3.50 an hour guaranteed. Apply in person. Julio's 2509 S. Micriigan street after 4:30 p.r[l. 
Desperately need 2GA tickets for Purdue game. Will pay top dollar. Call Dick6158 
Please help! Parents won't come see me unless I obtain 2 GA Michigan tickets ­$$$ Call 7609 
··----------------------­
Wanted: 2 GA Purdue tix. Can pay big bucks or trade 2 Pitt tix. Debbie 8150 
Wanted: one student football ticket for Purdue game. Call 4-1-4243 
Will trade two 1979 Mich vs/ND tickets, or one Notre Dame and one Ohio State ticket, or money for one 1978 Mich/Nd ticket. Call Tom collect at 1-313-971-6048. 
Will trade liquid assets for Purdue tickets. I need 2or 4GA tickets. Call Bob 
.at 6637 
Need Pitt tickets-any kind, any price. Dave 8853 
Need 2 to 4 Michigan tickets 3441, 3441, 3441 
Wanted: 1 Michigan student or GA ticket. Will pay$. Call4-1-5411. 
HELP! -have to have 1 GA Michigan ticket Call Mary 4-1-4359 
HELP! Need tow tickets to Purdue game. Student or GA call Randy 1062 
Need 2 GA tlx for Miami or Tenn. Call Dick 232-3084 
Need 1or 2 GA Purdue tickets. Will pay top dollar. Call Tom 3010 
to the book. He showed how DNA functions in living organisms, treating the subject through the various levels of biological struc­tures and their systems of com­munication. 
After a treatment of genetics on a chomosomal level, Bender ex­plained the molecular basis of the gene and its DNA components. In this discussion, he talked of Monod's award-winning research on genetic replication, relating it to the time-control nature of genetic control. 
After this introduction, Bender gave his critique of Monod's ideas. "No other science but biology has so shaken modern thought," Bender stated in regards to its theories of evolution. 
He said biological evolution is more like the creativity process than Russian roulette, pointing out the probabilities involved in genetic mutations. 
In tying in these views with those of Monod, Bender seemed in agreement with the author that with each intrident involving chance, there always follows an action of necessity. 

Wanted two football tickets for Michigan: Wilt pay a good price for student or GA tickets. Call 1770 
Need 2 GA tix for Tenn. 6893 
Rich uncle needs 4 G.A./ 2 student Purdue tix. Good $$$ Bill 3303. 
Wanted: Two GA tickets for Purdue game Call Michele 8007 
Now hiring cooks, waitresses and deli­very persons. Call Pinocchio's 277-4522 
Bartender -part time. Experience not necessary. Call Jim, Ramrod Bar. 289-4709 
I need 2 Purdue tickets. Call Joe at 1780 
Need 1 or 2 GA tickets for Michigan game. II Mike at 1384. 
I need Purdue tickets. My parents will pay, so if you have Purdue tickets (2 or 4 GA tickets) Call Bob at 1780 
Notre Dame-Michigan tickets wanted. Exchange for tickets to next years · · · sellout game in Ann Arbor or money. 1-313-663-7230 
Desperately need 2 GA Purdue tickets. Chuck 289-6721. 
Desperately need 2 GA Michigan tickets Will pay HUGE BUCKS Call John 1185. 
Need GA or Student Michigan tix. Will pay$$$ Please Call JOE 8336 
Desperately need 3 GA Michigan tickets. Call carl 272-4478 
Help!!! Need 2 GA Purdue tickets Call Max 8659 
FOR SALE 

Used desks, file cabinets and metal bookshelves. Call Goodwill 234-1661 Ex­tension 24 
For Sale: Must sacrifice 1971 Impala, 350-4 barrel 2 -eoor, AIC, power steer· ing. Equipped with Pioneer FM/casette KP-500 supertuner. Willing to deal. Call Ray 289-8657 
GOLD LOOKS BEST! stunning men's woman's classic 14-18 k at whol111l11 prices-Call Marilyn Thomauen 3848 
For Sale, still waiting for class books? Pandora's has special5 day order service. We also but books. Behind N D apart­ments. 233-2342. 
Imported clothing, jewelry, book, para­phenalia and gifts for men and women. Bring this ad and your college I D and 
· receive a15 percent discount on your next purchaSe. (excluding sale and consign­ment articles) Expires Oct. 1, 1978 
• 
PERSONALS 

The Flubber Family That was a great show. You should be in Hollywood. When is the next edition of !lubber beach coming out? Guess Who? 
Toots Loved your outfit. When Is the next skin party? An Adoring Admirer 
Diane­

1' II have someone look at your stereo today! Promise! Sorry it took so long, but I'm slow I guess.... 
Scoop 

Happy Birthday Sally -Sorry about the party -we will celebrate Love, Sheila, Liz and Sue 
Sue Leininger, Hope you had fun yesterday and Happy Birthday!!! 
Hey Kathy G, I haven't forgotten yx:r name yet! 
JEWISH STUDENTS interested in meet­ing with other N D Jewish student~ and faculty, please sign up on sheet in Campus Ministry Office, Rm 103 libwy, 283-6536 
Interested in horseback riding instruc­tion? Contact-Melissa Cipkala SMC­5409 415 MC Joe Hell 683-4467 
Tennis and racquetball rackets restrung professionally at affordable prices. Call Joe Montroy 1469 
See "Black and white in color," 1977 best foreign film Oscar winner tonight, 6:30 and 9:00 pm at Engineering Auditorium. Free admission 
Sue Kunkel for Dome princess 
We're mad as hell and we're not taking it anymore! Student rights! 
Charmaine Ortega lor Dome princess 
Needed: one permanent handball player play after 5:00 pm Call 683-4493 (local) 
Rumort14-Is It true that Bart N. wears 121nch disco heels to dance with the REAL women? I'm sure It's true -ask any girl 5'6" or shorter! 
Rumort15-Do Tim O'B and Barry really wear leather undies to the disco~ More Importantly how much do they sweat???? 
Rumort16 ·Do Dave B, Mike M, Dave N and Jim Rreally molest small children at teen disco nltes In South Bend??? 
The Disco Kid Is: 
TOM BEHNEY All disco-haters may harrass him at their own leisure... 
Happy Birthday roomie-have agreat day Sheila 

'·.~·'''' 
.' 

the observer Monday, September 18, 1978 
'You're on the air' 



'Speaking of Sports' attracts interest 
by Marty Roselli "It's the only show of its kind week. The Sunday before the Sporta Writer around here," points out Stauder Missouri game, for example, Bob who serves as Sports Director of Golic, Jerome Heavens and Joe "Speaking of sports, you're on WSND. "We want to give the Montana were available to answer the air." callers a chance to express their any questions the listeners may 
Every Sunday from 9 to 11 p . .m. opinions and whether we agree or have had. and Wednesday from 11 to mid­disagree with those opinions we'll "We try to feature guests that night, Paul Stauder, Lou Severino, listen to them, analyze them and are relevant to what's happening in Frank LaGrotta and Brian Beglane try to shed some new light on what Notre Dame athletics," Stauder gather in the studios of WSND-AM the caller has to say." explained. "Besides the three for a radio show called "Speaking "We don't pretend to know captains, we had John Heisler from and informative show. 

"Sometimes we'll have a certain theme for the show. Last Wednes­day night, for example, we had a trivia show and gave away T-shirts to anyone who could stump the panel. We gave away 17 shirts. Like 1 said, we don't know every­thing.'' 
The show has been a regular part of Sunday evening programming on WSND for the past few years. However it really didn't catch on until last year when, featuring the !'!xpert commentary of former WSND sports director Ted "Wally" Robinson and the·dry wit of John "Ston" Stenson, the show finally started to develop an audience on campus. 
"It gets to be a habit," joked "the Ston", "kind of like fish every Friday in the dining halls." 
This year the panel of "experts" has been expanded to four people. Stauder is joined each week by his three associate sports directors and he feels the larger panel has increased the quality of the show. 
"Each man on the show has his own opinions and personality,'' Stauder said. "Lou Severino and Brian Beglane are very profes­sional -just what one would expect on a show like this. Frank LaGrotta is our spicy and con_troversial figure. He's totally unpredictable. As the show's host, I try to keep things moving and somewhat rational. But you never know what's going to happen next."
Lagrotta, Severino and Stauder exhange views with callers. 
of Sports." It's an informal talk everything, but we'd like to think Notre Dame's sports information show featuring up-to-the-minute that we know enough about sports department and Mark Fitzpatrick scores, stories and discussion of to let our audience know what's from Missouri's office on the show what's going on in the world of going on-or what we think might be Wednesday before the Missouri sports. It's unique in that it gives going 011." game. We talked about both teams the listener a chance to call in and The show's format is set up so and what to expect when the game join the conversation. that a special guest is featured each started. It was a very interesting 
Irish, Belles host tourney 

%Observer 


Sports 
Irish extend streak 
by James Torres undefeated coming into the game 
Sports Writer at S-0. Irish raised their record to 
3-0. 

The Notre Dame Fighting Irish The victory extends the Irish 
soccer team easily defeated Indiana winning streak to 19 games. The 
University/Purdue University at streak is an NCAA best among 
Fort Wayne, 4-1. Friday night major colleges. Head Coach Rich 
before a crowd of several hundred Hunter said, "We're going to be 
at Cartier Field. The Irish domi­awful tough and we should con­
nated play throughout the game tinue to win if we play well." The 
taking 36 shots at goal compared to soccer team has not lost since the 
IU/PU's eight. Notre Dame goalie team was moved up to a full varsity 
Bob Ritger made five saves while sport last year. The Irish must play 
shutting out IU/PU for all but the such perennial soccer greats such 
last 45 seconds of play. The goal as the University of Dayton and the 
came at 89:15 after a controversi'dl University of Indiana in the rest of 
free kick. Ritger made the save but their 24 game schedule, but team 
IU/PU forward Joe Benites caught members expressed hope that they 
the rebound and knocked the ball could continue to win. 
in. Hunter commented' 'The team is 
improving with every game aridThe Irish offense had a workout with the return of injured players'as they controlled the ball for most Jim Sabitus and Brian Cullather,of the game: The first Notre Dame we will be even better." He alsogoal came at 9:13 when Joe Cuini stressed the need for the team toscored after assists by Mike Mai play together, and continue toand Kevin Lovejoy. The game function as one unit. The Notreremained stalled at 1-0 for the rest Dame soccer program is in aof the half as the Irish offense building stage and the coaches and controlled the ball. 
players have set a goal for this year 
Just five minutes into the second to reach the NCAA tournament. half the Irish offense exploded, Hunter also emphasized that the scoring three goals within eleven team is made up of mostly juniors minutes. The first goal of the half and that next year they should be a came at SO: 19 when Kevin Lovejoy formidable opponent for any scored from an assist by Randy school. However, it appears tha Wittry. Barely three minutes later, the Irish may have reached that at S3:17, Terry Finnegan scored plateau already. after a pass from Bill Witterer. The Irish put their winning Witterer again was credited with streak on the line this week as they an assist when he passed to Bill host three home games. Monday Ralph who scored at 61 :OS. At this at 8:00 p.m. at Cartier Field the time the Irish coaches began to Irish play St. Joseph's College. substitute freely, and gave the first Wednesday at 4:00p.m. they play team a rest. The second team Valparaiso University at Stepan controlled the ball for the rest of Field. Friday night following the the game. IU/PU was not able to football pep rally the Irish square mount any form of offense to make off ·with the University of Michigan the game closer. IU/PU had been soccer team at Cartier field. 
by Anne Davey and Beth Menke Sporta Writers 
On a beautiful Saturday, perfectly suited for tennis, the Saint Mary's and Notre Dame's women tennis teams hosted the second annual "Notre Dame-St. Mary's Tennis Tournament." This tournament is a single elimination, regional tour­nament. The eight participating teams included Valporaiso finish­ing first with 20 points, Ball Stage second with IS, Notre Dame plac­ing third, and Saint Mary's round­ing out the top four. The second four teams were Dayton, Elmhurst, St. Francis, and Taylor College. Kathy Cordes, athletic director at St. Mary's, reported that the tournament was ''running like clockwork." 
The individual results for the day follow: in three sets, Patty Giannis of Valparaiso defeated Cheryl Ruyak of Elmhurst in the number one singles competition. In the consolation finals, Mary Shukis of Notre Dame defeated her Dayton opponent 6-3, 7-S. 
In the number two singles final, Valporaiso's Lee Ann Berning .,as victorious over Theresa Dian of "-11 State 6-4, 6-2. The consolafltn finals of this event saw Ann Daniels of St. Mary's defeat Jean Barton of ND by a 7-6, 6-3 margin. Margo Farber playing number three sin­gles for Ball State had a big will over Carol DeHann of Taylor College, 6-2, 6-1. St. Mary's Maureen O'Brien and Notre Dame's Paddy Mullen both reached the semi-finals in this event. 
The big story of the day for St. Mary's was the impressive Jllay Of freshman, Karen Sarith, wto won the number four singles event. Going into the finals, Smith had lost only one game. ln the finals Smith faced Dina Johnston of Valporaiso and disposed of her in straight sets, 6-2, 6-3. SMC Coach Tom Selsor described Karen's play as "smotb, confident, and ma­ture." In the consolation finals, ND's Stacy Obrensjy defeated Day­Laura Sanders and Mary Harring ton's Robbin Cambron 6-1, 6-2. defeat the Ball State team of Cathy 
In doubles piay, the number one Lowe and Annie Lear in one of the team from St. Francis, composed of few three set matches of the day, Barb Watters and Jane Karges 6-4, 4-6, 6-3. In the consolation defeated Notre Dame's team of finals ND's twin sisters' act of Peggy Walsh and Mary Legeay in Sheila and Laura Cronin defeated the finals, 6-3, 6-4. The St. Mary's the Taylor team of Mary Hipker team of Terry Bracken and Lindsey and Peggy Hishmen by identical Riehl were defeated by St. Francis set scores of 6-3. in the semi-finals by the same Finishing in the top half, both St. scores. Coach Selsor was pleased Mary's and Notre Dame's teams with the play of Bracken and Riehl, are optimistic about the rest of the saying that they were "a very season. One highlight will be the strong team together," and should "Notre Dame-St. Mary's Irish Invi­continue to improve as the season tational" in October. This double progresses. elimination tournament will consist 
The final event, the number two of top major schools from all over doubles, say the Valparaiso team of the country. 

According to Stauder, most of the listeners have a good point to make when they call in. 
"That's what we like to hear," Stauder emphasized. "Someone with something to say. Sometimes a caller will belabor his point until he gets unreasonable and of course there are the prank calls. How­ever, neither has gotten to thepoint where it's a problem. 
"We could put the show on a time delay but we're confident that the character of Notre Dame people can keep the calls in good taste." 
What can we expect from the "fearsome foursome" this year? "We've got lots of surprises," smiled Stauder. "We've tenatively scheduled Coach Dan Devine for a Sunday show sometime during football season and we'll try to have as many players on as we can. 
We'd also like to schedule shows with Digger Phelps and Lefty Smith when basketball and hockey seasons get underway." 
"It's a great show," comments Pete Johnson of the Notre Dame football team. "Bob Golic and I were guests on one show last year and both of us had a great time." 
"Overall," commented Severino, "it gives the students a chance to question and converse with people they wouldn't ordi­narily talk to.'' 
"Speaking of Sports" -Sundays from 9 to 11 p.m. and Wednesdays from 11 to midnight. 
"You're on the air." 




