
Board holds budget hearing 

Accidents kill SMC student, injure sophmore 

by Reed King 

The Student Government Board of Commissioners held its annual blldget hearings yesterday, and allocated the student activities' funds to Student Government (SG), Student Union (SU), the Hall Presidents's Council (HPC), the Judicial Council, and various campus clubs and organizations. 
The amount of money available for this year's budget totalled $131,750, an increase of almost $20,000 over last year's budget. Beau Mason, Student Government treasurer, explained the increase as a result of $20,000 being left over from last year's funds. The rest of the money, approximately SllO,OOO, came mostly from the student activities' fees which every student pays. 
Mason proceeded to outline the allocations: 
The Student Government was budgeted for $23,375, which is $6000 more than last year. Mason noted that the reason for the increase was twofold. "We allo­cated S3200 for a Third World Conference, to be held in March, as well as an extra $2200 for a new course evaluation booklet," he explained. 
The remainder of the SG alloca­tion is to pay for telephones, printing, advertisement, staff salaries, and other office expenses, according to Mason. 
Student Union was allocated $66,480 for its seven commissions, an increase of more than $6,000 over last year. The budget for SU Administration was set at $8,486. Mason explained that this money is for the fixed overhead expenses of SU, including the operation of the calendar office, campus press, and the ticket office. 
A $3,000 revenue was projected for the Movie Commission, down $1400 from last year. The Academ­ic Commission, which is respon­sible for bringing speakers to campus, was given $20,000 for that purpose. 
A revenue of $4934 was project­ed for the Services Commission, which sponsors such activities as refrigerator rental, a book ex­change, a plant sale, on-campus mail, and the Free University program. The Concert Commission was expecting a $9,000 revenue. 
$29,250 was allocated to the Cultural Arts Commission for such projects as the Collegiate Jazz Festival, the Sophomore Literary Festival, and campus performances by various drama groups. 

The Social Commission was given $25,679 for such events as the Homecoming Weekend and Bull Moose Parties. A -major portion of this budget, according to Mason, was the $6,000 proposed for the operation of the Nazz. 
Mason next explained the monies set aside for the Hall Presidents' Council. Three sep­arate HPC funds were allocated money. The Hall Life Fund, which allows money for permanent hall improvements, was budgeted for $9500, up from $8,000 last year. Mason noted, "Soon the HPC will hold its own budget hearings, and these funds will be specifically allocated to the halls." 
The HPC An Tostal Fund was given $7,000, down $800 from last year. Mason explained the decrease, "An Tostal was over­budgetted by $800 last year, so there will be no real reduction in An Tostal funding." $150 was also allocated to the HPC Contingency 
[continued on page 6] 
by Jean Powley St. Mary's Editor 

Judy Marie Cerabona, 21. a Saint Mary's senior, died early Saturday morning from head injuries she received when the car in which she was riding was struck from the rear by a Michigan State Police car. 
A resident advisor (RA) in LeMans Hall, Cerabona was a passenger in a car driven by Karen Mitchell, another Saint Mary's senior. Mitchell and the other passenger, Ann Marie Calacci, both resident of Augusta Hall, were treated and released from Niles' Pawating Hospital. 
The collision occured at approx­imately midnight Friday when the police car was responding to an emergency call from the Berrien County Sheriffs Department. It was driving north on U.S. 31 with its emergency lights in operation when it hit the rear of the Mitchell vehicle, which was turning onto Silverbrook Road. 
Cerabona, who was in the back seat, was thrown through the rear window with the impact. 
She was taken to Pawating Hospital, but later transferred to Memorial Hospital where she died a few hours later. 
Neither of the troopers, Royce Alston, 26, driver of the car, and 
Marshall Johnson, 28, were injured. 
The Niles prosecutor was ex­pected to review the accident report today before deciding whether or not to seek charges. 
A resident of Chicago, Cerabona was an English and Business Administration double major. She wrote for both The Observer and Chimes, the College's literary magazine. 
In addition, she worked as a student assistant in the office of Saint Mary's president, Dr. John Duggan, and in the Career Devel­opment Center. 
She is survived by her parents, Jerry and Loretta Cerabona; an older sister, Linda Battistoni; and two brothers, Robert, a freshman in Flanner, and Kenneth, who lives at home. 
A memorial mass was held Saturday night in LeMans Hall's Stapleton Lounge. Approximately 200 students and faculty members 
attended.  
Funeral  services  will  be  held  
tomorrow  at  9:30  a.m.  in  Saint  
Daniel  the  Prophet  Church,  
Chicago.  

by Kathleen Connelly Senior Staff Reporter 

Robert Kenny, a sophomore resident of Flanner was struck and injured by a car saturday morning while crossing Juniper Road. 
The victim susfained a com­pound leg fracture and broken vertabrae as a result of the two car collision which occurred at 10:42 a.m. 
Asspciate Director of Campus Ministry Sr. Jane Pitz, who witnes­sed the accident, said that the vehicle traveling North on Juniper Road collided with a vehicle turn­ing left onto Juniper from the Bulla Road intersection. The northbound car hit Kenny who had crossed Juniper half-way and was waiting for the northbound lane to clear. 
According the the St. Joseph' County Police accident report, the driver ofthe vehicle turning left, 16 year old Jon Farrington of South Bend stated that the southbound lane of Juniper had cleared and that he didn't see anything ap­proaching from the north. 
The police rerort said that Farrington then pulled out into the intersection and hit the second car. driven by Zenon Bidzinski, 25, a second year law student at Notre Dame. Bidzinski's car then struck Kenny. 
Dan Rourke, resident assistant at Hanner visited Kenny last night in Memorial Hospital and said that ile appeared to be in good condition. 
Monday, October 2, 1978
the observer 
,..News Briefs---~........ 
Israeli gunboat attacks 
TEL AVIV, lsnel [AP]-An Israeli gunboat in the Gulf of Aqaba; intercepted and sank a Palestinian guerrilla boat as it was speedingI north to blast the Israeli port of Eilat with a barrage of rackets, the military said Sunday. The seaborne clash occurred Saturday afternoorl as Eilat, Israel's southernmost town, filled up with tens of thousands of people on holiday for the long Jewish New Year; weekend. Hotels were booked solid and the beaches were crowded with campers. 
Bowen terms bills 'fact' 
INDIANAPOIJS [AP]-Gov. Otis R. Bowen says high energy bills are • • an unfortunate fact of life,'' and says the blame can't be laid solely on his administration or the State Public Service Commission-which he appointed. Bowen spoke Saturday night at the tOOth anniversary meeting of the Indiana Republican Editorial Association in Indianapolis. 

Toga! Toga! · 
MADISON, Wls.-The toga party craze sweeping the nation's college campuses has reached the University of Wisconsin in a big way. About 10,000 students, most of them wearing bedsheets, jammed under and around a huge tent for a raucous Saturday night and Sunday morning of beer, music, food and more beer. Inspired by the college fraternity party in the popular film "National Lampoon's Animal House," toga parties are "in" this season, and sponsors said Wisconsin's was the biggest. There were several dogs wearing little togas that appeared to be made from pillowcases. One guy was wearing what looked like a shower curtain. He said it was a waterproof toga. 

Weather 

Mostly sunny and mild today with highs in the low 70s. Increasing 
cloudiness with a chance of showers tonight with lows in the low 
50s. Cloudy tomorrow with a chance of showers and possibl· 
thunderstorm. flighs in the upper 60s. to around 70. 

~On Campus Today _ _. 
4:15pm 
5:30pm J 
6:30pm 
6:30pm 
7 pm 7 pm 
7 pm 
7pm 
7:30pm 
9:15pm 
midnight 

meeting, amnesty international, Ia fortune ballroom 
meeting,french club, faculty dining room, south dining hall 
women's self defense classes, sgt, joel wolvos of sb police, Ia fortune ballroom 
self defense and judodasses, sponsored by nd judo 
club, ace wrestling pit  
film, "six in paris," engr. aud.,$1  
career development workshop "work decision making," dr. kathleen rice,  values and mccandless  

piano lounge-smc 
career development workshop, "interview skills," daniel powell and betsy twitchell, carroll hall-smc 
organizational meeting, mardi gras booth chairmen, architects, and raffle chairmen, Ia fortune liHie theatre 
lecture, "transcendental meditation and tm-sidhi program," sponsored by sims club, lib. aud. 
meeting, bible study-fellowship, south quad section, dillon hall chapel 
wsnd album hour, "stage," by david bowie 
Ob~~erver Editorial Board 
Tony Pace Editor-in-Chief 
Steve Odland Managing Editor John Calcutt 
Executive Editor Barb langhenry Executive Editor Rosemary Mills Editorial Editor 
Phil Cackley Copy Editor Jean Powley St. Mary's Editor Ann Cales 
News Editor 
Mike lewis 
News Editor 
Diane Wilson 

News Editor Ray O'Brien Sports Editor Bryan Cruley Featu~es Editor 

Wing presents Gilligan's speech 
by Kathy Rosenthal 

A speech, written by former Ohio Governor John J. Gilligan concern­ing problems of the Third World countries, was presented Friday morning in Hayes-Healy auditorium. 
Gilligan, Head of the Agency for International Development (AID), was unable to attend because his wife was ill. His remarks were delivered by George Wing, Personal Representative of the Administrator. 
Gilligan, who graduated from Notre Dame in 1943, speculated on what lies ahead for the United States and the world in the next thirty years. 
"What happens in the U.S. and in the Third World in those years will shape our national life, our well-being, and possibly our very survival, to a degree almost impos­sible to imagine," wrote the administrator. 
Gilligan conveyed that there are approximately four billion people in the world now, and by the year 2000 there will be 6.2 billion. Furthermore he explains 90 percent of the world's population will be living in what are now known as less developed countries. 
Wing quoted Gilligan as follows, "do not be lulled into thinking that these are Third World problems and not ours." 
He continued, "The person who believes that we can ignore the realities and needs of the develop­ing world and at the same time extract from them the commodities vital to our very existence, is living in a fool's paradise." 
"Almost SO percent of the total population in the developing world has been by-passed by the econ­omic development of the past few decades....Nations are developing but populations are starving," remarked Gilligan. 
"The U.S. was once the leader in development assistance ... and is now 13th down the list of nations. The president and Congress need evidence that the American people are " ... ready to make the short term sacrifice for the long term victory," Wing related. 
The talk was sponsored by the 
International  Business  Education  
Committee  and  Student  
Government.  

He adds that while the demands on the world's resources increase, fisheries, forests, grasslands, and croplands decrease. 
Gilligan supports President Carter's energy program as a way· of coping with inflation. As another way of coping, he refers to Prime Minister Trudeau's sugges­tion of " ... simpler life styles among the affluent and new population policies that stress stability rather than growth." 

US, Soviets suspend talks 
WASHINGTON [AP] -The United States and the Soviet Union failed to reach agreement yester­day on the remaining obstacles blocking a new arms limitation treaty and decided to suspend negotiations for three weeks. 
Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance and Soviet Foreign Minister Andrei Gromyko met for two and one-half hours in an unusual Sunday session, and both reported their discussion was "intense and useful." 
But neither side claimed that progress was made. Officials had expressed hope that the two coun­tries would be able to reach the broad outlines of an agreement during the current rounds of talks, which began Wednesday. ­
Vance announced that he will go to Moscow in the second half of October, probably during the third week of the month, to resume the negotiations. He said he remains hopeful that the two sides will be able to reach an agreement before the year's end, which has been the administration's target. 
On Saturday, President .Jimmy Carter had intervened personally in the negotiations, presiding at a White House session after Vance and Gromyko had met Wednesday and Thursday in New York. ' 
Vance described the Saturday session as a "good and constru­tive meeting." Groniyko said there had been "some signs ... of a cer­tain movement forward." 
Gromyko was said to have 
*The Observer 
Night Editor: Scoop Sullivan Asst. Night Editor: Jim Rudd layout Staff: Ann Titus, Margaret Kruse Sports layout: Ray O'Brien Typists; lisa DiValerio, Kim Convey, Beth ·Willard, me E.M.T.: Katie Brehl Day Editor: Katie Kilkuskie Copy Reader: Reed King Ad layout: Renee leuchten Photographer: Cate McGuiness 
The Observer Is published Mon­doy throu1h Frldoy except durtne oum ond vac~~tlon periods. Tile Observer 11 published by tho students of Notre Dome ond Solnt M.,Ys College. Subsa1ptlons moy be purdlosed tor no per yeor (S1o per semester) from The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dome, tndlono 46556. Second c1011 post011 pold, Notre Dome, tndlono, 46556. . The Obaerver 11 • member of the Auoclotld Pre11. All repro· dudlon rl1ht1 ore reaerved. 
reported new U.S. proposals back 
to Moscow on Saturday, but it was 
not clear whether a Soviet response 
was the reason for the end of the 
session. 

The talks appeared to be at a 
critical stage as yesterday's session 
began. Officials said the talks were 
in a "trade-off" phase in which one 

side would agree to concessions in 
one area only if the other did so on 
a different issue. 
If Vance and Gromyko had been 
able to reach agreement on 
the broad outlines of a new treaty, 
settlement of the technical details 
would have been the next step, a 
process expected to last about a 
month. 
But officials said earlier that 
failure to reach agreement here 
probably would require a new 
round of high-level negotiations. 
Carter said last Thursday th<it he 
hopes for an agreement l'd'ore the 
end of the year, but he indicated 
that could come about only if the 
Soviet side were willing to make 
concessions. 

NSF awards SMC with $6500 
The National Science Foundation 
(NSF) has recently announced an 
award of $6,500 to Saint Mary's. 
The award, which will be matched 
by the College, is to help improved 
undergraduate scientific instrul'­
tion through the acquisition of 
instructonal scientific equipment. 
Jean L. Forster, assistant pro­fessor of Biology, is the director of the Saint Mary's grant, which will be applied to an improvement plan for cell and molecular biology. 
NSF awards totaling approx­imately $3.5 million were granted to 281 educational institutions in 48 states and DC. The laboratory­oriented improvement projects are supported through the Instruc­tional Scientific Equipment Pro­gram (ISEP), a major NSF program designed to improve the quality of undergraduate science instruction. 
ISEP projects focus on instruc­tional improvement through labor­atory experiences with modern scientific equipment and on proper utilization of current education technology. 


Permanent ID's to arrive late 
Those holding temporary ID's will not receive their permanent ones for approximately two weeks. All campus facilities should con­tinue to honor these ID's until that time. Announcements will be made in the Observer and the dining halls as to distribution of the new ID's._ 

The negotiations· for a SALT II 
agreement began six years ago. It 
would expire at the end of 1985. 
The SALT I agreement expired a 
year ago but has been extended on 
an informal basis since then. 

The key issues involve what 
types of new missiles the two 
nations will be permitted to deploy 
during the life of the projected 
treaty . and whether or not the 
Soviet Backfire bomber should be 
counted against the total of 2,250 
bombers and missiles allowed each 
side. 

Powers recieves 
honorary doctor 


of letters degree 
Rev. Joseph L. Powers received 
an honorary doctor of letters 
degree from the University of 
Portland in special ceremonies 
Thursday at the Morris Inn. 

Bro. Raphael Wilson, University 
president at Portland, conferred 
the degree. 

Powers graduated from Notre 
Dame in 1937 and was ordained a 
priest in June, 1941. He taught at 
Notre Dame during 1941-45 and 
again in 1950-51. Since then he has 
held a number of positions at 
Portland, including the office of 
Executive Vice President and most 
recently, as Dean of the College of 
Arts and Sciences. He initiated a 
peace studies program in the 
college, and served as president of 
the Portland World Without War 
Council. 

Powers resides at Holy Cross 
House, Notre Dame. 


Shelter seeking volunteers 

The Women's Shelter Advisory Committee of the YWCA is seeking volunteers for its crisis service and shelter work. 
The Shelter is a temporary residence for women in crisis and a support service for victims of domestic violence. Since its open­ing last April 3, over 200 women and children have received services from Shelter volunteers and staff. 
The nature of the volunteer service is crisis intervention. Volunteers work from their homes or from the Shelter to provide confidential emotional support and, if necessary, transportation to the Shelter. 
A seven-session training pro­gram will begin in October, includ­ing such topics as domestic vio­lence, victimization, interviewing and listening techniques, and legal information. 
Anyone interested in becoming a volunteer or learning more about the Shelter can call Hotline at 232-3344. 

Monday,.October l, 1978 
the observer 


Crowds visit St. Peter's Square to mourn Pope 
531 N. Michigan 
~ max W€stl€~ ~m. 303 mab€l€V~ smc ~: lf.Sgt. Peppers Lonely Heart Oub Bandf 

233-4957 l , [..
••• ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••.•••••.•••••.•••.....•.••;• 



UNITED WAY at N.D
• 
i 
-1.00
• .QO
• 
-.80 
-.70 
.60 •
• 
• •50 
• .40• 
~ .'30 
....20 
~ .10 
VATICAN CITY (AP] • Hundreds of thousands of mourners braving a driving rain yesterday filed sol­emnly through St. Peter's Square to view the body of Pope John Paul I, in a massive outpouring of affection for the "smiling pontiff." 
Cardinals arriving from. around the world for Wednesday's funeral and the conclave to elect a new pope that begins Oct. 14, made clear they will be seeking a man with the same pastoral backround and down-to-earth traits that en­deared Pope John Paul to millions, even though he reigned a mere 34 days. 

ND collects United Way donations 
by Marcia Kovas 
Section representatives are ask­ing each Notre Dame student living in the halls to donate $1 to United Way this week. 
"Our goal is 100 percent student participation," said student direc­tor Tom Soma. Thirty-four service and charity agencies will receive funds from the drive. 
Vice-presidents from each hall are coordinating door-to-door campaigns. Brother Joe McTaggart, campaign advisor, said a one-on-one drive "makes stu­dents aware of teh community responsibilities they'll have as adults." Thursday is the final day for contributions. 
Big Brothers, Big Sisters meet 
The Big Brother/Big Sister Organization of Notre Dame-Saint Mary's is sponsoring a "Pre-orien­tation" session tonight at 7 in the Conference Room of Keenan Hall. At this meeting the Big Brother/ Big Sister program will discuss its demands and rewards in detail. Volunteers presently involved in the program will also share their experiences and answer any ques­tions that might arise. Interested students from Notre Dame and 
Saint Mary's are welcome to 
attend. 



OCCO'S 
BARBERS 
hairstylists 
Cardinal Humberto Medeiros of Boston said Pope John Paul, who died of a heart attack last Thursday at age 65, had quickly "won the hearts of men and was very valuable to the church." 
"Now we put our trust in the Holy Spirit to inspire all of us reunited in the conclave and in the prayers of all the faithful that we may find another great pastor and leader of the church," Medeiros told reporters. 
Long lines of mourners formed at dawn for the opening of St. Peter's Basilica at 7 a.m. 
Seven abreast, they stood 

He said Notre Dame is not an United Way is a volunteer organ­entity apart from the South Bend ization which operates indepen­community. "Every working adult dently in each metropolitan area, is expected to donate to the local coordinating one major drive each United Way. Not to is like not year to raise funds for service and standing for the national anthem," charity organizations in the area. said McTa~gart. Most of the agencies could not 

October 2 1 19'78 
As :rou know, this year'e United \il;r lUnd lk-in is t&lclng phce thb week on C&!l{l\18• Aa I have in Teart~ put, I wou.ld once· again ask TOU to support thie vort.hvhlle CalUieo 
I 't.bink it 1e illport.ant tar eTer,rone to uper1ence the responaibillty to giVe during the CCW'lll!l or their college educa­tion, 'n:le United Wq Fund Drin ill one nry good ..;r to gain this uperience. I !ind it adnd.rable that tbe student goal 1a set at 11)()% participation ratber than a total dollar figure. The C~~Jhaais on one-to-one eolicitation and perSOM.l. contact a:llll!litiea a ca!lld.taent to promote re.sponaible girlng and lut rear 1a student participation rate of near]J' 70S wu liT tu tbe highest tmll"o 
.l8 7Dil !maw, the entire Uni:Yer'l!lity ill irrrolYed vith the l.m1ted Wq Fund DriTe or st. JOI!Ieph emnt:r. Rotre Dena, u part o! St. Joseph Comty, 111 uked to pledge an Ulml&l. dOII&tion to the fund. JP&culf-71 adlliniatration, start, and etudenta partiei­pate each -rear to -•t thia goal. Icur donation to help support the IIIUl1 charitable organiu.tiona in the loe&l e~V td.ll be ;re&tl3' appreeiated by IMI:\Y people leaa tortUMh thiiJl C1llr118bea. 
Last Te&r '~ l!ltudent re.ponae tor United Wq vu excellent. let'• l!lee tl' ve can't tgp lut year' a reapcmu bT reaching that 1.00% partieipation figure. 
'lbanldng you tor your eoopention and 11illhing 70U the beat durlng the year llheacl, I ­

Fr: Hesburgh released this letter yesterday to start the United Way: Y • ~oody Blues • Decade --: 
dnve. . "' -L, Jt 
f--------~·-------·---h-----·--------·--------·--------"11 ~Pablo Cruise -WorldsAway: i--·-------·----· C Jffi€S~------------4: *The Who-Who Are You : '-·-------·-------------------------------------·---·~· ~.l * .*Boston..,. Don't Look Back Jt 
-\ Jt * 

~ now acc€Ptlnq manusCQipts ~: : 
.\ ~ ~.. * For '7.99 *.. ~ ~OQ PUBlicatiOn : ~ ShOQt essays, ~ i*John Travolta/Olivia Newton-John -Grease1:' ~.. . . .. 
~ 1 ..,. ~ * -¥2 Record Set -Saturday N.ght Fever * 
i p~ys, ~1ct1on, non-~1ct1on,. po€tQy, ~: : \ ~--..
\ photoqQaphy, aRtwOQk o~ all k1nbs ~ ~ F :

\ i: 
or 9.99 : 
installation as 263rd pontiff just four weeks ago and of the funeral of Pope Paul VI three weeks before. 
Workmen have begun preparing a· marble sarcophagus oppor· ~ Pope Paul VI's tomb in the basil­ica's grottoes. Pope Paul was buried "in the simple earth," liccording to his stated wishes. 
It is not known whether John 
Paul left such instructions, but 
Vatican Radio reported he may 
have written a testament, even if 
only notes scribbled in a book. 
The report said the pontiff had told his two secretaries his brother had been enthusiastic about Pope run extensive drives alone. Seven-i ty percent of the students donated · to United Way last year, in first ever door-to-door drive which brought $4200. Before that, bake­sales, contests, and football pools brought in about half the amount. 
Pangborn Vice President Joe Solbert claims 19 of 20 students had donated to the campaign by Sunday, and others were eager to do so. Solbert says students can also write checks to United Way through the food sales service. 
Ed Zier, Morrissey vice~presi­dent, said students were anxious to donate to help put Morrissey in first place among campus halls. A thermometer will be run daily in The Observer to contrast each 
hall's donations. 
•***********************************
i* .,, BOOKSTORE ,r· i 


i * ;5PEC1~ i * 
: For 0n1 •4 99 *Player • Dan~er Zone : 
Paul's testament, but that he, John patiently in line throughout the day, with upwards of an hour's wait. A river of umbrellas stretched a half-mile under the colonnades of the great piazza. 
Among the first to view the body was the pope's brother, Edoardo Luciani, 62, who had been in Australia on a business trip when the pontiff was stricken. 
The Congregation of Cardinals, running the 77-million-member church in the period between popes, took the day of and will meet again today. 
The Congregation has scheduled an open-air funeral on the steps of St. Peter's, the site of John Paul's Paul, planned to write a shorter one--14 or 15 lines. 
Since the papal apartments are sealed and put under watch by the Swiss Guards immediately upon the death of a pope, the existence of any such testament may not be known until a new pope is elected. 
Most widely mentioned "papabili," or possible popes, are those with the basic characteristics that brought an overwhelming vote to · Cardinal Albino Luciani of Venice in his election as Pope John Paul--that ._is, Italian and "pastoral," meaning a prelate with no connection the the Vatican's central administration. 
These include Cardinals Corrado Ursi, 70, of Naples, Salvatore Pappalardo, 60, of Palermo, and Giuseppe Siri, 72, of Genoa. 
AL BA BP CR CV T'T. FA FT FL GR HC HO !<:E L'S LY MO PA SR sn ST ··rA ZA 
• 

: _ participation chart
• 
• 


.~-~ ~------------·-· 
Moncby, October 2, 1971
the obsanrer 
-e , ~eat ~"'Soot\­-~ 

~~ \~e s o~'t\\1, 
\ Guys S Gals Blue Jeans Sportswear at Factory Outlet Prices 
5 Blocks South of Campus on Notre Dame Ave. PART-TIME HElP WANTED1 
Tak.•n•o a•nnii'ICatl'ons Wed. afternoon' 3-8 p.m. I) congregation of the Religious in
"' .;..;.. 'A. :t::~ ~ ....., ~ J Rome will represent the University 
~..o..o..,_o-~e><-~-:::;o...o.~-o...c:::;;>-.e~::><:::;o...o..o-.o....c>..c::><:;;:o..o-d<. at Pope John Paul's funeral. 
· -Corby's · 
·-:~···· HOWARD COSEY,
... --...... -. FOOTBALL SPECIAL 
From beginning kick.Off until'the final gun 
Big Mouth Draft 35c each 3 for i!.OO Mixed Drinks 75c each All Canned Beer 60c each 
and Notre Dame Student Union Present 
A Spectacular Homecoming Event ''Rust Never Sleeps'' ·an evening with-­


Neil Yoooung 
Crazy Horse 
Thurs, Oct. 12 Spm Notre Dame ACC 
All seats reserved $8.50 $7.50 on sale now at: ACC Box Office,.
First Bank Main Branch, Robertson's-South Bend and Elkhart, St. Joe Bank & Branches," Boogie Records, River 
City Records, Just for the Record, Suspended Cord and
Elkhart Truth in Elkhart, Record joint in Niles 
'iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii.·iliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~ ' 
l~ 
~ 
~ ND mourns late John Paull 
) by Joe Slovlaec StdReporter 
University President Fr. Theo­dore Hesburgh has named a Uni­versity representative to attend the funeral of Pope John Paul I, who ) died Thursday night. In a me­' morial mass friday at Sacred heart J Church, Hesburgh also commented on the brief reign of the late Pope. Hesburgb revealed that Fr. Bernard Ransing, a Holy Cross priest who is a member of the 
Because of previous speaking Hesburgh cannot 
u 

These kazoo-playing Domers showed plenty of enthusiasm but little musical ability at last week's , pep rally. [Photo by Cate McGuiness]. I 
__ l 



useum to move sculptures 
by Michael Frailey 
Three religious sculptures will be moved from the courtyard of O'Shaughnessy Hall to the front of that building because of the future construction of the Fred B. Snite Museum of Art. 
The sculptures, done by the sculptor Ivan Mestrovic, will be moved this week according to the director of the Notre Dame art gallery, Dean A. Porter. 
The largest of the three sculp­tures depicts the biblical story of Christ and the Samaritan woman at a well and will be situated in the front of O'Shaughnessy facing the south quad. The two other sculptures, both of evangelists, will flank the main entrance of thf' building. 
Originally, the sculptures were to be displayed in the front of the future art museum which will face the" football stadium. However, instead of providing the sculptures with a temporary home while attend the funeral himself. Accor­ding to Information Services Direc­tor Richard Conklin, Hesburgh did attend the late Pope's Innaugural Mass at the invitation of Vice­President Walter Mondale. 
Hesburgh was the principal cele­brant among 38 South Bend area priests at the impressive memorial Mass on Friday with the singing of the Sacred Heart Church choir. "Three weeks ago Sunday, I was standing in St. Peter's Square in an atmosphere of pomp and splen­dor,"Hesburgh said in his sermon. 
It was "the first time in my life as a priest that I was able to concelebrate Mass with the Holy Father" and the event showed "glory marked by simplicity," Hesburgh stated. "No one could have imagined that we would be here praying for Pope John Paul's soul," he added. 

Pope John Paul's reign ·.had "begun so well" with his "winning the hearts of all," Hesburgh said. He "reached everyone by his openness, humanity, love of the poor, and pastoral concern for ~1." 
Hesburgh stated that the Pope's death gave the Church a "theologi­cal problem" about the "Provi­dence of God" as the Pope died when he had his "greatest reach" to help spread Christ's message through the world. [continued on page 7] 
... ,_,..·--·~• I 
'""". fr' .~~~-,Jt.. I 

·~ :;jji·-.: I 
•,,{~ r?-~! L ~-. r I 

-~ ..l...~ 11 
place, Porter has decided on the front of O'Shaugnessy as their permanent location. 
"The front of O'Shaughnessy, facing the south quad, is an absolutely ideal place for U.e Mestrovic sculptures," the director said. ''After all this is the College of Arts and Letters and now we will see something that is visual as far as the arts are concerned. And what better art is there for the Notre Dame campus than that of Ivan Mestrovic," Porter added. 
Mestrovic, originally from Yugoslavia. was a resident at the University from 1955 until his death in 1962. Besides the three O'Shaughnessy sculptures which he complete in 1957, many other examples of the sculptor's work are found on campus. 
The move of Mestrovic's "Christ and the Samaritan Woman" sculp­ture has Porter concerned. • • All three sculptures are bronze and can be easilv moved," the director said. · 
Christ and the Samaritan woman stand is made of marble. Weighing about six tons and already showing signs of cracks and fissures, the marble base will be difficult to move without crumbling. It is a real sticky problem, but we'll handle it," Porter stated. 
Porter said the financing of the move is included in the budget for construction of the Snite Museum of Art, which is expected to be completed in January of 1980. 
Porter, enthusiastic over the start of the museum's construction, urges students and faculty to take interest in the art of 
O'Shaughnessy. 

. "I think we are building a pretty exciting complex as far as the cultural life of this university is concerned," remarked the director. "The relocation of the Mestrovic sculptures is the beginning and the museum is soon to follow. Stu­dents and faculty will find it advantageous to become more a 
construction of the museum takes "However, the well on which part of this building," Porter said. 
.................................,







i UNITED WAY 
! SMC MAKES IT HAPPEN ! 
e au • • he •
.• ~ .•
. .
~ 

: ,. : 
e • 
• ~ 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 • 
e• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • e • • • e • • • • • • • • • • • • • • .. 
·e off campua atudenta, mag contllbute at le•ana, hall deak e 
.•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 
Monday, October 2, 1978 
the obsener 



Wilkinson talks to law students 

by Rob Powen 

"The so-called 'Criminal Code Reform Act of 1978' is a rewrite of the S.1 Bill, which was designed to impose a Watergate-type straight straight jacket on the American people," Frank Wilkinson, Execu­tive Director of the National Com-· mittee Against Repressive Legisla­tion, told a small group of law students Friday afternoon at the Law School. 
According to Wilkinson, the bill, S.1437/H.R.6869, was "steam­rollered" through the Senate in January by Senators Edward Kennedy and Strom Thurmond in January, but was defeated by the House. It is presently being revised and will be voted upon next year. 
"Our present criminal statutes are filled with redundancy and obsoleteness," he said. "70 different crimes of theft are spread throughout 30 different sections of the law." 
Wilkinson stated, however, that the solution to the problem was not through package legislation, but through "an incremental piece by piece reconstruction of the laws." 
While he said the bill had many positive features, he added that a number of its sections are in violation of the First, Fourth, Fifth and Eighth Ammendments. 
Governments 
inform OAS of will to mediate 
WASHINGTON [AP] -The United States, Guatemala and the Dominican Republic have informed the Organization of American States (OAS) they are willing to mediate a solution to Nicaragua's political crisis. OAS Secretary­General Alejandro Orfila announced yesterday. 
The announcement follows an agreement by Nicaraguan Presi­dent Anastasio Somoza and oppo­sition leaders that the three coun­tries are acceptable to them. 
Orfila's brief statement said the three governments have agree to offer their "friendly cooperation and conciliatory efforts to establish the conditions necessary for a peaceful settlement without delay." 
At a meeting of OAS foreign ministers late last month, a resolu­tion was approved taking note of Nicaragua's willingness to accept outside conciliation 
The phrasing of Orfila's state­ment was similar to that of the resolution approved by the minis­ters. 
The framework for the mediation effort was negotiated by spedat 
U.S. envoy William Jorden during meetings with Somoza and repre­sentatives of a broad-based oppo­sition front. 
Orfila said the three govern­ments will anounce the names of the three mediators shortly. 
Jorden had sought a five-nation mediation team, but negotiations bogged down. after the two sides 
agreed  on  the  United  States,  
Guatemala  and  the  Dominican  
Republic.  

The opposition front agreed to drop its insistence on· Colombia if Somoza dropped his choice of El Salvador. 
21 seperate acts, including acts ofcivil disobedience and the failure to obey safety orders, presently treated by the courts as simple misdemeanors, could have become "heavy felonies" if the bill became law, he said. 
The dissemination of classified informationcould also be sup­pressed, he said. "Under the act, the Pentagon Papers could not only jail a Civil Libertarian, but also the New York Times." 
Wilkinson, who attended com­mittee hearings on the trial, criti­cized the "omnibus procedure which the Senate Judiciary commit­tee followed on the bill. Kennedy, the Chairman of the Committee, allowed only five days of hearings. 
Only two to three Senators  were  
present at the hearings.  
"(The  Senators)  would  offer  

ammendments, and Kennedy would listen," Wilkinson said. 
Sen. Jim Avarez wanted a defini­tion of war to be made in the criminal code, but the committee, after Kennedy's encouragement, voted not to allow dialogue on the subject, Wilkinson said. 
The bill states that the penalty for illegal demonstrations during peacetime is two years imprison­ment; during war years, five years. As a result, Wilkinson said, these penalties· can be imposed during a "police action", such as Vietnam or Korea. 
Kennedy and Thurmond kept the bill a secret from the rest of the Senate Dec. 19 until Jan. 18. The bill was voted upon Jan. 19. Thurmond said this was done because "We didn't want to get involved in a public relations war." 
Kennedy printed only one-half of the bill for the Senate. "The other half (more than 300 pages) was added during the last ten minutes of debate,'' Wilkinson said. 
The bill passed the Senate on a 72-15 vote, but was defeated in_the House. 
Wilkinson traced the origins of the bill to the bipartisan "Brown Commission", established by President Johnson in 1966. Its recommendations were rejected by President Nixon in 1971, who initiated the work on S.l. 
It was defeated in the last Congress, after intense opposition from newspapers, labor, and the churches, particularly Catholic leaders who called the bill "the list of 1 00 horrors" for its severe sentences. S. 1437 was an abridgement and revision of S. 1. 
Wilkinson has been active in the Civil Liberties for 25 years. The National Committee Against Re­pressive Legislation (NCARL) has 
regional offices throughout the country, but only two of its seven fulltime employees are paid. Wilkinson says his weekly salary is only $150. 
Founder's Day Co-chairpersons Mary Ellen Maccio and Adri Trigiani model an orignal hook rug of the Saint Mary's seal with Catherine Shaughnessy, who is in charge of raffling the rug for charity. The rug was designed by an English seal company, and the kit was manufactured by Show-craft, Co. Sister Alma Louise hooked the rug. [Photo by Cate McGuiness]. 
·Spaghetti-Salad All You Can Eat 
s2.40 

Tony's Shoe Shop Quick service -Reasonable prices 
-Coupon book available- for 150/0  'discount  now  
s h o e rep a irs  &  sh-oe care  n e e d s  

P L U S . all types of zippers repaired . quality leather goods sold .sa~dals. made by hand . Winter boots available 
convienent location on campus In Badin basement " open: M on-Frf 8-5/Sat 8-2 phone 283-1144 

Tonight at GOOSE'S 
Watch monday Hight Football With Us 



--------~--~~~-------­
Monday, October 2, 1978
the oburver 

N&W holds up under st~ike 

ROANOKE, VA [AP] -The president of the Norfolk & Western Railway (N&W) says about 3,500 employees handled about half the business normally done by 24,000 during the 81-day clerks' strike which ended Friday night. 
No other railroad ever had moved as much freight as N&W did during the walkout that began.July 10, President John P. Fishwick said 
• 

Senior Assembly meets 
A meeting of the Saint Mary's Senior Assembly was held last night in LeMans. 
The main topic of the meeting was the selling of Senior Trip raffle tickets. The tickets, which will be sold until Oct. 12, may be purchas­ed from Seni<'r Assembly members for $1 apiece. The raffle is for seniors only. Anyone with ideas for a Senior Trip t-shirt should bring the design to 441 LeMans. 
Tentative plans were discussed for a Notre Dame-Saint Mary's senior tailgater following the Pitt game, and for a Halloween Trick or Treat with Logan Center. 
COSIMO'S HAIR DESIGN 
Cosimo IConnie 
Rose Terry Women 
$ 15.00  I  $11.00 I  
Men  
$11.00  $8.00  

For Ap. Call 
277-1875 
New Location Next to Old Shop 
18441 St. Rd, 23 
South Bend Ind. 

as the line's operations began to return to normal-under a federal court order that sent the striking clerks back to work. 
Some N&W trains were running during the weekend, even though most N&W employees don't work on Saturdays, said N&W spokes­man Lew Phelps. 
The Brotherhood of Railroad and Airline Clerks (BRAC) pulled down 
The Assembly also began plan­ning for Senior Week, which will be Nov. 6-11. Ideas for Senior Week should be submitted to SMC Senior Class President Donna Noonan. 
Noonan also stated that volun­teers are needed to head commit­tees to plan activities for gradua­tion weekend. Interested seniors should contact her. 
its picket lines Friday night throught the N&W 14-state system, Phelps said, but most employees were not expected back on the job until today. 
Because the strike that began against the N&W spread eventual­ly to railroads in 42 other states, a federal judge ordered employees back to work for a 60-day cooling­off period. 
The N&W chartered six commer­cial airplanes to return supervisory personnel to their home bases from points throughout the system to which they were sent during the strike. 
Richard F. Dunlap, N&W senior vice president for operations, said the railroad ran 78 trains the first day after the strike ended. Gut Fishwick said it will take at least a week to resume full operations, mainly because cars and locomo­tives have been leased to other lines. 
collegiate crossword 
42 Pi ano keys.ACROSS 45 One of TV pair 1 Third addendum to a 49 Little: Fr. letter ·50 Pig -poke 
5 Wrestling maneuvers 51 "-Maria" 10 Cigarette (slang) 52 Sweetie 14 Met so1 o 53 Opposite of past 15 Hamburger garnish 54 New York subway 16 Poi source 55 European beetle 17 Like grape country 56 Like Methuselah 18 Kind of soprano 57 Punta del ­19 "Desire Under the 59 "-and his 
.. money ..... 

20 -cit. 61 Pirate in "Peter 21 Moon rover Pan" 22 College course, for 62 Light bulb unit 
short 63 Assume the 24 -Vegas existence of 25 Pay dirt 64 Aspen transport 26 --wan Kenobi of 65 Pianist Templeton 
"Star Wars" 66 Musical syllables 
27 Opposite of yeh 67 Caesar and Luckman 38 Fluid in a cruet 28 Call -day (2 wds.)29 Pretty much 39 "Grease" star 31 Adhesive substance DOWN 43 Mesmerized 33 River to the Seine 1 Famed conditioner 44 Posed (2 wds.) 34 Well-known airport 2 A -(deductive) 46 Parallelograms 35 More insensitive 3 Nipping jaw 47 Kind of gasoline 
at "-48 Finishers 
PREPARE FOR: 
MCAT·OAT· LSAT •GMAT PCAT•GRE•OCAT·VAT· SAT 1MB I. II, III·ECFMG·FLEX·VQE 
NATL DENTAL BOARDS • NURSING BOARDS Flexible Program• & Hour• 
VIsit Our Centers & See For Yourself Why We Make The Difference 
LSAT, GRE, GMAT~~-f{ Classes IUIIPUIN 
• 
EDUCATIONAL CENTER 
TEST PREPARAnON

now form1ng SPECIALISTS SINCE 1938 
call 291-3150 
38 Union member, 4 Old quiz show 
times When" 40 Spiral 5 Headquarters 41 Like the Kalahari (2 wds.) 

6 Roger'Bannister, for one 7 Miss Montgomery, 

for short B Egg purchases 9 Tracklaying vehicle 
10 -Jeanne 
11 Bumpkin 
12 Motor part 
13 Filmy cobweb 

21 King influenced by Richelieu (2 wds.) 
23 West Virginia border (2 wds.) 30 "-With Love" 32 Reprimand 35 Hiawatha, for one 36 Overthrow of a 
decision 

37 Well-known French song 
58 And so on (abbr.) 60 She-bear: Sp. 61 Roads (abbr.) 

Board holds hearings 
[continued from page 1l The other clubs which received Fund, which covers adrt'linistrative funds are: Lacrosse Club, $300; costs for the HPC. ND-SMC Council for Retarded,Answers to The Judicial Council was award-$400; Marketing Club, $100; Amer­
ed $1350 for the year. This money will mostly go for publicity
last week's 

expenses, Mason stated. Mason noted the creation of a
puzzle new Strategic Reserve Fund by the Board of Commissioners. This fund of $15,000 will be kept in reserve, either to be re-allocated next semester, or to go for emer­gency expenses. The first priority for this fund will be the establish­ment of a SU record store, Mason explained, but the status of such a store is uncertain at this time. 
The Board of Commissioners decided upon a new policy for the funding of volunteer service organ­izations and charities. Such organ­izations were considered best funded from the Mardi Gras Charity Chest (now at $23,000), which is separate from the student activities' funds and managed in­
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~•.dependently ~ Student Government. I "In the past there was a duplica­tion of funding," Mason noted. "The Board of Commissioners funded these charities, as well as did the Charity Chest, which is better equipped for that purpose. The Commissioners feel committed to these charities, but we feel their 1 needs could be better met by the
Now get the best PLt:za in town 
I 
Mardi Gras funds. There should be delivered right to your door, no actual reduction in funding," Mason ooncluded. nightly from 6-10 pm The clubs which were allocated
1 

funds by the Board of Commission­
401 N · HICKORY 
ers are as follows: BCAC, $1000;§E WIDE SCREEN FOOTBALL! TOWN & COUNTRY MALL Finance Club, $100; Management Club, $100; Dancing Irish, $200;
272-0945

HAPPY HOURS! Mon.-Fri., 5-7pm Sailing Club, $300; International Student Organization, $1500;Mug of Stroh's or Pabst, just 25~ Japan Club, $100; CILA, SSOO; 
. World Hunger Coalition, $4()(), and .UI.AII'I.AII'I.AIUUUI. io•'.IV.IYI.IV4.1VUV....,..,.IY'I.,I\II~WWIIWit.MM'rNWWMMNWWWMMMWWWW• the Rowing Club, _$300.... ·.' 
. ~ .• ." .. ... ... 
·­

ican Chemical Society, $100; Delta Phi Omega, $200; Neighborhood Study Help Program, $200; MECHA, $800, and Community Services, $25. 
$8894 is the total amount avail­able to clubs, of which $6600 has already been allocated. According to Mason, there are three organiza­tions which were not budgeted but will receive further consideration. These are a black student news­paper, the Class of 1979, and Right to Life. The Board of Commission­ers wants to further investigate the needs of these · C(anizations before allocating funds, Mason explained. 
Student Body President Andy McKenna listed the basic criteria which the Board of Commissioners used in selectit , the organizations to be funded. "First, it must be socially or edu •tionally beneficial 
~theoommumv. We~xtn~~ 
the apparent management of each organization. It 'lso helped if they showed willing s to go out and raise money 1r themselves," McKenna expl?.:·,ed. 
"Ifthe club these standards, then we examined the preparation of the club's budget and the legitimacy of the figures,'' McKenna continued. For the large annual appropriations, the Board of Commissioners looked at the past expenses and the anticipated needs, according to McKenna. 
Student Union Director Bill Roche agreed with the criteria for selection listed by McKenna. "We looked very carefully at how many people would be involved in each organization," Roche explained. "We allocated funds to a club if we had the sense that the money 
..would be well spent." 

Atonday,Ckfober2, 1978 
the observer 
7

··· ·Iassifi"eds········· ·····""oilcEr············· 
· C Typist will do typing. Neat accurate. Reasonable rates. Call: 287-5162 WANTED 
Ventriloquist Edger Bergen dies
.Get Happy Friday at Pandora's 
Overseas Jobs-Summer/full time. Europe, South America, Australia, Asia, etc. All fields, $500-1200 monthly, expenses paid, sightseeing. Free info.­Wrlte: International Job Center, Box 4490-14 Berkeley. CA 94704 
Need two GA tickets for Pitt and I or Tenn. Call Susan 4-4541 
I need just 1 GA or student ticket for Pitt game Call Jan 8154 anytime 
Would appreciate 2 GA Pitt tickets. Please call Teri 7993 
Female grad student seeks serious dance partner (6 ft. or over). Call Carole mo 
Need 2 GA tix for Tennessee. Call Jim­1816 
Need VOLUNTEERS to sell me tennessee GA tix Call Chris 1764 
Help! Need GA for Pitt. Will buy or trade student pass to any of the remaining home games. Call Rose, 1320 
Sister and fiance need 2 GA tickets for Michigan State. Call Anne 6816 
Addressers Wanted Immediately! Wort! at home-no experience necessary-ex­cellent pay. Write American Service, 8350 Part! Lana, Suite 127, Dallas TX 75231 
I need 5 GA Miami tickets (not ne­cessarily all together). Call John at 1991 
WANTED: 2or 4GA tickets for any home football game. Call Mike 7838 
Need two GA tickets to Pitt Game Call Pete 1460 
I need 2 GA tix to Miami Call Bill 3169 
Need two GA tickets to Tennessee. Call Tony 6718 
Want tix to Pitt, Tennessee. Call Steve 1478 
Need tide to Phiia. or Allentown during break. Will share driving and expenses. Call 81111487 
Need 2 GA Pitt tix badly -Call Ken 289-8657 
Need 2 GA Pitt tickets. John 288-2129 
Experienced bartender needed -3 nights -3.00/hour and tips. Apply at Nicola's 
Experienced bartender needed -3 nights -3.110 an hour plus tips. Apply Nicola's Restaurant 809 North Michigan Street. 
I naed 2 GA Pitt tickets Tim-272-7f74 
Need Ride to Columbus Ohio for Oct. 6-8 weekend. Will share driving and$. Call Lisa SMC 4715 
I will pay good money for 2 Tennass&!l GA's Call me now 8518 
Cousins Wedding!!! Ride needed to Milwaukee or Chicago's north side on October 6th. Call Steve at 1389 
NEEDED,GA tickets for Pitt game-call 3489 ask for Long John. 
Wanted-1 Michigan State GA ticket Call 
7009 
Wanted: student with TV video cassette recorder to tape ND football games for personal use by subway alumnus. Reply to E. Kelso, 2509 Lisbon Lane, Alexandria, Va. 22306 
Need riders to St. Louis for weekend of October 6th. 289-7690 
For Sale: A real snow bird. 1964 Rambler Classic VB 54,000 miles. Never saw snow or rust Florida driven. Power steering, brakes, and windown. Automatic, air conditioned. this car is in mint condition! One of akind-$1000.00 Privately owned 255-8660 after 6 p.m. 
1970 VW convertible extra sharp rebuild engine and transmission 2n-4082 
1970 Fiat 124 Sports Convertible very good condition throughout 2n-4082 
Have 1 GA Pitt ticket Will trade for 1 GA Miami and 5 dollars. Joe 1069 
Mink coat 36", professionally appraised. 277-5828/283-6558. Office G221 Memorial Library. 
LOST I FOUND 
Found: pair of glasses behind Stepan Center. Photo-gray with brown frames Contact the observer and Identify them and they're yours agaln 
Lost: Men·s black billfold outside 0' Shaughnessy on Tuesday September 26. NPed desperately. if found call 233-8622. 
::<eward 

1 F.;Jnd in Bus. Ad building, bracelet. Call .: L 26 to Identify inaugural Happy Hour. 112 price special on used books from 3-6 p.m. Pandora's 233-2342 
Gardeners: Excellent horse manure, free for loan of truck, one mile from Notre Dame. Call 2n-5828/283-6558. Office G221 Memorial Library. 
PERSONALS Steve-this carpet looks great! 
The Staff 

Beth-don't lose my ring! The carpet is coming! 
Scoop PS-Cat-my sister won't be at SMC until Friday, ok? 
Hair cuts $5.00 style cuts air dry 7.00 at "Stacy's" hair styling for men and women. 3421 Mishawaka Avenue South Bend. Phone 289-8822 
DRUGS-I'm hooked!(any suggestions?)1 Me 
Dear 4 mini-moons, I'd howl under your stars any night!!! WOLFMAN 
Don't wait for the cows to come home. Mr. Moo 
Tennis and racquetball tackets restrung professionally at affordable prices. Joe Montroy 1469 
Nancy Montroy Have a very Happy Birthday Bro. Joe 
Icy veins-
Thanks for the B-day surprises: plant, cake, etc. Bundle up for some cross­country skiing in the near future. 
Luv ya, Rich 

Dear Steve. Sorry we· re late. but we hope you had a happy 19th birthday. Sincerely, Joe, Jim. and Bill 
We have a good friend named Gates, Whom no one could possibly hate Now your birthday is near, and since you're so dear, We hope your whole day is just great!!! Your friends in 4-South 
When in doubt, Moo it out. American Dairy Association 
Sheila McGahan, Freshman Council's ·first Georgia Peach!!! Congratulations!!! from aDanville Dandy 
Mary Beth-
We're all wondering why you noticed Mary B.'s legs so quickly. Is this a new fact of your "unusual" personality being exposed? 
Signed, 
Concerned Heterosexuals 

Interested in Horseback Riding Instruc­tion? contact Melissa Cipkala, SMC 5409, 415 MC or Jo Heil, 683-4467. 
Skippy and Freddy say that you can't rollerskate In a Buffalo herd but you can go to Homecoming Oct. 14 if you put your mind to it. 
DBARTISH you are amazing! nrussel 
Lisa, Teri, Lori 
Three reasonable good-looking and swinging guys looking for a good time this Saturday nite. How about it foxes? If interested contact, 
Mike, Rick, Steve 

Mares, I want to wish you the best 18th Birthday ever!!! your friend, .Kares 
THANKSII!The 911 Club wishes to thank everyone for making the section party such a success and a good time for all. Stay tuned for future 911 Club events!!! 
C. and She-
Here's your personal. Thanks for being there at the party Saturday. Hope you had a good time. I'll bring "Tor­mato" over soon. 
Scoop 
Stacy-

Despite your denials it is still the concensus of the 911 Club that you look just like Mom. 
Tim PS-Scoop is working on your ride to Atlanta 
cathy-

Thanks for helping at the party serving beer, and being your usual lovely self. But you melted our pitcher top and Sean is mad!!! 
Scoop . PS-Tracy-hope you and AIby had a good time. If they get rid of parietals, then you won't ever have to bother us with freeloaders again!!! 
Attention Obllrver AdvarUslng LlyM Stiff. Mandatary llllltlng WllllllldlyMnlng. Only about 112 hour. You wlrl . 
WS ANGELES [AP] -Edgar Bergen, who over six decades became America's favorite ventril­oquist playing straight man to an irreverent dummy named Charlie McCarthy, is dead at age 75. 
Bergen died in his sleep of an apparent heart attack Saturday, less than two weeks after announc­ing his planned retirement. His body was flown to Los Angeles yesterday. 
A memorial service is scheduled for tomorrow morning at All Saints' Episcopal Church in Beverly Hills, family spokesman Gene Shefrin said. The service is to be followed by a private interment. 
The night before his death, Bergen appeared at Caesar's Pal­ace in Las Vegas in the second performance of what was to 6e his farewell nightclub run. 
He -.:old the audience, "Every act has a beginning and an end and now it's time for me to pack up my jokes and my friends." He received a four-minute standing ovation and packed his wooden family into a trunk. 
Bergen, who disclosed a heart condition in a recent interview, announced on Sept. 21 that he was leaving show business. His side­kick was puzzled. "How can you retire," Charlie asked, "when you 
haven't  worked  since  you  met  
me?"  
Bergen  said  then  he  would  

donate Charlie to the Smithsonian Institution, "where he will prob­ably sit in Archie Bunker's chair." But, he said, he would keep the dummy with him until his death and perform occasionally for char­ity. 
McCarthy planned to do 11 shows in Las Vegas with singer Andy Williams as part of his final road trip. However, there was doubt he would appear in Cincinn-­ati and Cleveland as scheduled because of his health, according to a family spokesman. 
Williams, who finished the show Saturday, said he told the audience "Bergen was one of the real giants of show business and we were all privileged to see him in his last performance." 
"I don't know what made me say 

Band members show their support during last week's pep rally. 
l"J.• •• ~ •••••••••••• •• .-. • •... • • 11\lfi.Jti:IDIII of tbiiiiCt Uma. _ •
. ... ..... .............................................................. 
that," Williams said. "It was the 
first time I'd used those words." 
Bergen's act consisted of a trio of 
dummies--top-hatted monocled 
Charlie McCarthy, dull-wited 
Mortimer Snerd and spry spinster 
Effie Klinker. 
Bergen and McCarthy special­
ized in "insult humor," a style 
which influenced later comedians, 
including Don Rickles. 
Example: 
Bergen: "I've taken a lot from 
you!" 
McCarthy: "Yes, and you have 
kept every penny." 
"He and his sidekick, Charlie 
McCarthy, were my earliest inspir­
ations," said Rickles. "It was 
Bergen, through Charlie, who de­
veloped to perfection the art of 
insult comedy that so many of us 
employ today." 
Bergen was born in Chicago on Feb. 16, 1903, the son of Swedish parents, John and Nellie Bergen, who ran a retail dairy business. His family lived at different times near Decatur, Mich., Sweden and Chicago. 
[Photo by Cate McGuiness). 
ND mourns late John Paul! 
[continued from page 4] 
The Pope's death reminds us of the "frailty and mortality of all of our lives," Hesburgh said. The university president said he doesn't "know what it means in the inner mysteries of the burch." 
Life's meaning and significance (is) to love and serve. Be one Pope or peasant, king or serf, we are all born alone, die alone, and stand in judgment of God alone.'' 
Pope John Paul I "gave his message well. The shortness of his time will bring home the impor­
• tance of his simple message." Hesburgh said the Pope "came into the world as a leader" who was "loving in concern" and "humble in demeanor." 
The Pope described himself as a "little man" who did "little things." Hesburgh said small actions like his "colloquy with the student at the audience'' showed how the Pope was "a man of fidelity, loving and serving
......................•...........•
.
.
.
FOR RENT 
.
.
. 

:':~~ngar!:a. ~s!'1 ::1'5tra11~. ~lie : from Notre Dame. Call 277-5828/283--: 6558. Office G221 Memorial Ub-: 
rary. : 
others." 
Hesburgh noted that the Pope "died in bed reading the Imitation of Christ by Thomas Kempis, a book full of "simple spiritual truths." 
In these times we "put too much stress on leaders," Hesburgh stated. The life of the Church is not crowds praying at St. Peter's or a papal audience but "how the goodness of Christ enters life." Hesburgh thinks that "in the church we get the leaders that we need." 
In a lighter vein, Hesburgh told the congregation that "Pope John XXIII opened the windows and let in a tornado that almost blew the furniture out. 
Pope Paul VI met the challenge he thought he must" which was to "put order in what looked like (the aftermath of) a cyclone." 
Hesburgh said that Pope Paul VI was a "product of the grace of God" and even if people did not agree with all his decisions it is "only necessary to agree wlth the spirit of his life" filled with "dedication and integrity." 
Pope John Paull, who liked to be called the Supreme Pastor, "tried to carry on where they left off." He "only needed a little bit of time to tell the lesson of his life." 
Hesburgh said Catholics should "pray somehow we receive another Supreme Pastor in the images of John and Paul" who is "open to spirit, open to love and little children." 
Msgr. Egan said the Pope helped people "understand the meaning of joy and laughter in a person's life." He "never lost his l<wc for the poor, the working, anrl the 
_J
suffering." He was "a pastoral person who was the righ 'Jerson for the right job at the rig:· .t.' " 
Egan believes the next r will "not be a bureaucrat," bHt ,, : P! of the people, a pastor,:! y ;..;n concerned with the problc"'~' ' ,h.: world with compassion." 
There is "a pattern of the lund of Pope the cardinals desire" and Egan believes the carcii,.~tis are "reading accurately the pulse of the people of the world" w;w want a "man of joy" who is "more interested in people than paper." 
Egan noted the people at the game were "affected with sorrow" as they joined with people acru~. the world in mourning Pope ,Y,.~, Paull. 
A moment of silent prayer . late Pope took place at th'.:: ..,; ,.. : Dame-Purdue football game S.. tur­day. Flags were lowered to half-staff and bells tolled throi.lgb­
1out the day. 
-. 

Monday, October 2, 1978
the observer 

ND notches first victory of season 
by Ray O'Brien Sports Editor 
It wasn't the finest display of college football. It wasn't the most exciting game in Irish history. It wasn't even convincing in its 
BOSTON [API -Veteran Luis Tiant, Boston's Mr. Clutch, pitched a brilliant two-hitter as the Red Sox blanked the Toronto Blue Jays 5-0 Sunday, forcing only the second playoff in American League his­tory. 
The Red Sox, in a dramatic finish. caug~t the New York Yan­kees on the final day of the regular season, necessitating a tie­breaking playoff for the American League East title here Monday afternoon. The Yankees blew a chance to win the division crown by bowmg to Cleveland 9-2 Sunday in New York. 
Both teams finished with 99-63 
records. The playoff game will 
!>tart at 2:30 "Jl.m. EDT and will be 
nationally televised by ABC. 
New York will send its ace 
left-bander, Ron Guidry, against 
Boston's Mike Torrez, a former 
Yankee. 
Tiant, considered to be older than his listed age of 38, pitched the Red Sox into the tie, allowing only singles by Roy Howell in the fourth inning and John Mayberry statements seem to sum up the feelings of most Fightu•~ Irish fans Saturday as Notre Dame notched their first mark on the win column by narrowly defeating a previously unbeaten Purdue squad, 10-6. 
It looked as though Dan Devine's 
in the seventh. 
The Red Sox picked up a pair of 
unearned runs in the fifth and two 
more on Rick Burleson's fifthe 
homer in the seventh. 
Jim Rice, the first AL player to amass 400 total bases in a season since Hall of Farner Joe DiMaggio in 1937, capped the Boston scoring with his 46th homer in the eighth. That gave Rice 405 total bases for the season in which he played in all 162 game. 
The Red Sox rolled to their eighth consecutive victory and their 12th in the last 14 games. 
NEW YORK [API -Andre Thorn­ton and Gary Alexander tagged Catfish Hunter for home runs in the first two innings Sunday and the Cleveland Indians posted a 9-2 victory over New York that pre­vented the Yankees from clinching the American League East Division flag. 
The Yankees held a one-game lead over Boston going into Sun­day's action. Boston met Toronto Sunday, needing a victory to force a one-game playoff between the Yank~es and Red Sox on Monday. 

books as the first team in Notre Dame history to lose their first three games as passing phenom Mark Herrmann led the Boiler­makers downfield deep into Irish territory in three of their first four possessions. But the best Jim Young's crew could manage was a pair of field goals as a dropped end zone pass and a Browner quarter­back sack forcing a fumble thwart­ed two drives inside NO's 15 yard line. 
Scott Sovereen put Purdue on the board with field goals in the first and second quarter from 28 and 47 yards respectively. Meanwhile Notre Dame • s offense went no­where, but an ailing Joe Restic kept the Irish in the game with punts of 41 and 49 yards that the Boiler­makers could not return. For the injured Restic, it was the beginning of what was to be a busy and productive day. 
The Irish put all their points on the board within a three minute span in the third quarter after both teams exchanged punts. The Irish, starting inside midfield thanks to a Restic punt that went out of bounds at the Boilermaker nin"e yard line earlier, turned to the running game of Vagas Ferguson and Jerome Heavens. Ferguson crashed for seven yards on three consecutive plays befor Heavens was stopped for no gain 27 yards from the goal line. On third and three, Heavens broke through the line and straight armed his way for the first and only ·:ouchdown of the game. 
"It was a dive play off guard," 
~~Y~~~nhe1h~~!~s;n~uli~b:~~ic~~~ j~as~ 
the way it was designed." 

For the Irish, it was one of the few things that worked as planned as neither team could sustain a drive. As often happens in close 
~:!e~i~~~e:~~es. a turnover made On an attempted flea flicker play, Herrmann threw in despera­tion and his toss fell into the waiting hands of Randy Harrison who returned the ball back to the Boilermaker's 14 yard line. Four plays later Joe Unis kicked his first career field goal giving the home team a 10-6 lead that proved to be enough, although there were doubts in the closing minutes. Purdue's last bid for a third consecutive win started with 4:30 remaining in the game when Herrmann went to his specialty ­the pass. But as the Notre Dame secondary had performed through­out the game, the back line stretched but it didn't break. With 
1:46 to play Steve Heimkreiter capped. a brilliant afternoon's play intercepting a Herrmann pass at 

· 

Don't ask how 
:':':':;:::;:::::;:::::::::::::·:·:·:·:·:::::·:::-:::::::::::-:::::::::·:::::·:·:·:::':':':'::::::::::::;:;.:' The 1rish Eye "They don't ask you how; they ask you how many!" I don't know what coach first said these often repeated lines, but I would bet that it came after a game much like the one played between Notre Dame and Purdue Saturday afternoon. The Irish and Dan Devine were in jeopardy of going into the record books as the first team in Notre Dame history to lose their first three games. More importantly, another loss could have marked the beginning of a tragic season; not that the Irish's performance last Saturday gave eYidence of any kind of dramatic turnaround. But it was a win and that's what coaches get paid for. Dan Devine earned his paycheck in this game as he not only coached but did a little officiating. "I had every right to argue," exclaimed Devine after the game. "I'm sick and tired of getting calls on Thursday telling me that the refs did make a bad call last Saturday. Herman Rohrig, head of Big Ten officials, told me that one of the refs blew a call in the Michigan game. That's not going to do me any good nowi" The referees blew two calls this week including the twelve men Purdue had on the field that everyone in the stadium saw. "Ifsix men can't see 12 men on the field, then we need a new six men out there,' • blasted Devine. "If I don't fight for my team nobody will." Devine also switched strategies a bit this week. In the past two games the Irish head coach stuck with one set of backs but chose to substitute the Irish 21 yard line putting an end , freely,shuffling runningbacks as well as receivers last Saturday. The net 
to a less than impressive perfor-
St. Mary's Welsh scores five Belles topple Notre Dame, 5-2 
by Mary Pat Brlagardner and 
Debbie Dahrllng 
Sports Writers 
The Saint Mary's field hockey 
team captured its first victory of the 
year as they upset the Irish of Notre 
Dame by the score of 5-2. 
Playing in cold and rainy weather 
throughout the game, the Saint 
Mary's squad totally dominated the 
second half of play, outscoring the 
Irish, 4-1, to capture their first 
victory as a varsity sport. 
Center-forward Beth Welsh led 
the Belles attack as she scored all 
five goals for Saint Mary's. 
Twelve minutes into the game, the Irish opened the scoring when Mary Ann Dooley fired a .hot by Bonnie Keyes, the Saint \..fary's goalie, to give Notre Dame a 1-0 edge. Four minutes later Welsh tied the score for the Bell( · when she received a pass fron P:•tty Meagher and slipped a sh•· 'he Notre Dame goalie, Ma~; · ms. whose view had been obsc.:u. ,1 by several players in front of '~''' net. 
The rest of the first halt was marked by close-checking defense. Both teams attempted several shots on goal, but neither squad could come up with a score, The first half ended with the score deadlocked, 1-1. 
Immediately after the start of the second half, Notre Dame went on the attack to attempt to break the deadlock in the score. But an offsides call against Notre Dame nullified the Irish drive, and Saint Mary's gained control of the ball. After two exchanges of possession and a lot of action, Saint Mary's flooded the area in front of the Notre Dame goal, and Welsh netted her second goal for the day to give the Belles a lead that they would never relinquish. 
Five minutes later, Welsh beat the Irish goalie again as the Belles went ahead, 3-1. 
Immediately after the Saint Mary's goal, the Irish began to apply the pressure on the home team in order to cut the margin in the score. For five minutes, the Notre Dame squad con'trolled the ball in the Belles' zone, but the Irish offensive attack could not produce a score. 

Notre Dame's aggressiveness appeared to work against them, though, when Welsh slipped by all but one of the Irish defensemen and fired a shot past the goalie for her fourth goal of the day. 
With three minutes remaining in the contest, Kelly Sullivan passed to Welsh; she scored the last goal for the Belles to make the score 5-1. 
After the faceoff, the Irish gained possession of the ball, and, within a minute, Mary Ann Dooley scored her second goal to bring the score to S-2. 
After the game, Ann Deitle, the Saint Mary's coach, commented, "This was the best that we ever played as a team. We finally got it together today." Nanette Krauss, a SMC fullback, added, "We worked so hard to prepare for this game because Notre Dame is our biggest rival. We really wanted to win this one." 
When asked to comment about the contest, Notre Dame's coach, Astrid Hotvedt, said, ''Saint Marys really played a good game today." 
mance by both teams. 

"When I caught it all I wanted to 
do was get dowp. I didn't want to 
run with it and someone get a good 
hit and make me lose the ball," 
emphasized the senior linebacker. 
Heimkreiter finished the game with 24 tackles, an interception an.d a broken up pass leading the Irish defense that allowed Herrmann 167 yards passing on 15-30 attempts but shut the door when their backs 
wereto the wall. Sophomore Tom Gibbons started for the injured Restic and also had a fine game recording nine tackles. 
"We won ten in a row and then lost two in a row. This sure is a lot better," commented a relieved Dan, Devine. "It was tough test for Tom Gibbons who was starting his first game against a great quarterback, and I think he did an excellent job. Steve Heimkreiter also played a fantastic game." 
Notre Dame continued to be inconsistent on offense although 
%Observer 
Sports 
Ray 0 'Brien .·:·:·.·:·:·:·:·:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::.:':':·:·:·:·:-:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:'::::::<..:·:·:·:·:···::::· 
runningbacks Ferguson and Heavens ran for 92 and 80 yards respectively while Joe Montana's 7-11-2 statistics for 95 yards were good enough to earn him Offensive Player of the Game. 
"Purdue was a good football team," said Devine. "They are not just Herrmann this year and that made it tougher to defend against them." 
Notre Dame will be going after their second win of the season next Saturday in their first away game at Lansing, Michigan. Their oppo­nent, Michigan State, sports a 1-2 record with losses to Purdue and Southern Cal. 
GAME NOTES: Bob Golic's 19 takles gives him a total of 384 tackles in his career passing Bob Olson's total of 369 for first place on the all-time list. ..Jerome heavens is 185 yards shy of th.e all-time rushing total of 2341 held by George Gipp. 
result was positive alth, ·~~ the r1!sh,;1g game has fallen off from what it 
was at the end of last year. 

While the offense managed one score, the defense held up under the 
strain of Herrmann's accurate arm. The pass ruch was mediocre but 
defensive coordinator Joe Yonto did a good job of calling for the"Browner 
blitz. • • Mike Whittington and Tom Gibbons also performed well in starting rolls. Both got beat on certain plays but are the kind of hitters that can cause turnovers. Whittington finished with 19 tackles while Gibbons played flawlessly in the second half. 
Questions still remain concerning the ability of the defense. Rick 
Leach, not known for his passing, rips the secondary with three TO passes 
and then Herrmann is shut out after picking an All-American Irish defense 
as a freshman. I think that Herrmann is the kind of player you don't want 
to run into when he's having a good day. 
Since he is rather frail and not much of a scrambler, Herrmann ends up throwing the ball when he shouldn't have (29 interceptions last year.) The pass that Harrison picked off never should have been thrown. Until this passing sensation gets his head caught up to his passing ability, a lot of talent will go to waste. But give NO's defense credit for an outstanding afternoon. This squad is probably better than most people expect and should improve as the seaason progresses. 
Steve Heimkreiter finally escaped Bob Golic's shadow as he recorded 24 tackles in addition to his game clinching catch. His total was two shy of the record of 26 set by Golic against Michi"gan. There is little doubt that Heimkreiter is an underrated player that could make a good pro prospect. If you don't believe me, you can go ask Steve. 
The Irish must now prepare for their first road test of the season and hopefully a change of scenery will do them some good. Attitudes should improve as Devine's team looks to even their record and turn their season around. Michigan State lost to USC, 30-9, out on the west coast. They must be down after entering the season with such high hopes. 
Eddie Smith is back at quarterback for the Spartans but still has not regained his form of sophomore year when he led the Big Ten in passing. The MSU defense has been inconsistent, giving up the big play in crucial situations. The longest play from scrimmage for the Irish so far has been only 26yards. So maybe the offense can open up a little. Talk about predictable, Notre Dame ran on first and ten situations 24-25 times for 96 yards. The one first down pass was complete for 16 yards. If this continues, Montana and company may see a ten man line this week. 



