

Leaventhal: 
Quality of law excellent 
by John Mahon can law schools is the best he has i paneled beyond theiJr original pur-Justice Harold Leaventhal, United ever seen. The students are cur-pose. ' States Circuit Judge on the U.S. rently "the cream ofthe crop," he Referring to technical matters, Court of Appeals for the District of said, and many other fields are LeaventhaJ said thaf: • lawyer must Columbia Circuit, conducted an complaining that all the be~ be an "expert in the relevant." open forum yesterday at 3:30 p.m. ' students .are going ~ law Lawyers who can el:plain technical in the Law !School Lounge. The school. The htgh level of mteUi-. matte:l'li'f:ompetently to a judge are forum was sponsored by the T.J. gence among the students enables bfjlily-valued, he said. "Nothing White Center for Law, tGovem-them to get more out of their can be too simple for a judge. H ment and Human Rights. · education and to serve the public your wife can't understand it, then 
Punctuating his talk with anec-more efficiently. ajud.8e f!AD't.'' he quipped. dotes, Leaventhaf emphasized that Commenting on the judicial pro-As an example~. Leaventhal the preseni: quality of law is cess in general, Leaventhal com-pointed out the case 9f Judge excellent. The public gets very pared the process of a judge Markey of the U.S. \Court\ of competent lawyers, ,he noted, ad-delivering an opinion to Social Customs and Patents, who cur­ding that clerkships help to further Darwinism. Many opinions are rently bas ten technical advisors, improve the quality of legal ser-given, he remarked, but "only the all qfwhom have both a law degree vice. fittest survive." Bad decisions are and a Ph.D. in sdence. These 
Opening his talk, Leaven-simply forgotten, he concluded, but advisors are very useful and neces­thal stated that he believes tlte the best decisions at·e constantly sary, Leaventhal said, but to install current level ofeducation in Ameri-reapplied and possibly even e.K-' [contfnaed 08 page 7] 

The . 
canal treaty prospects 
WASBINGTON [AP)·Panama and on the issue of whether the United . a key senator say they will accept a States could take any action to keep compromise definition of U.S. int­the canal open in the future.


Observer 
ervention rights in Panama, boost­The compromise provision does ing prospects for final Senate not limit this right, but does 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's 
:ratification of the canal treaties · "reaffirm" the U.S. policy against today. intervention in the internal affairs Vol. XII, No. 119 Tuesday, April '18, 1978 '. · Sen. Dennis DeConcini, D-Ariz., of foreign countries, DeConcini :agreed yesterday to a compromise said. 
Majority Leader Robert C. Byrd, D-W. Va., indicated earlier that the language was acceptable to the Panamanian government. He said
Philadelphia Inquirer wins 4th Pulitzer 
Panamanian Ambassador Gabriel NEW YORK [AP]-The Phlladelpbfa corruption and misdeeds of public write another good play." to the New Yorker magazine, won a Lewis called it "a dignified solution Inquirer won for the fourth straight officials and deals with the way in Coburn's drama prize was for special citation in the field of to a difficult problem." year-this time for exposing abuses which the government or private "The Gin Game," a Broadway hit literature and arts. DeConcini said he could not speak of police power-as the 1978 Pulitzer interests-sometimes unwittingly­about two elderly residents of a Another special citation went to for any other senators, but the Prizes were awarded in journalism endanger the lives and property of nursing home. Richard Lee Strout, a staff corres­compromise was seen as making and the arts yesterday. people." Walter Jackson Bate won his pondent for The Christian Science narrow ratification of the treaty 
The Inquirer was cited for merito­Anthony R. Dolan, a reporter for second Pulitzer prize for biography Monitor in Washington. more likely by the Senate today. rious public service for a four-part The Stanford, Conn., Advocate, with "Samuel Johnson." He had Strout, 80, and White, 78, were The first treaty, dealing with the series of articles by veteran court won in the special local reporting won in 1964 for a biography of John believed to be the oldest pair ever neutrality of the canal, passed reporters Jonathan Neumann and category, for a series of investiga­Keats. to receive special citation awards. 68-32, a one-vote margin. William K. Marimow. Executive tions into municipal corruption In the poetry category, Howard It was the first multiple award in Several senators had sided with Editor Eugene Roberts said, there. Dolan reportedly endured Nemerov, professor of English at that category in 30 years. "I guess the Arizona Democrat in insisting "we're delighted," and besides threats to his personal safety, and Washington University in St. they're trying to catch up on on the reservation, while some Neumann and Marimow praised he said he would donate his prize Louis, won for his ~·collected things," White said. treaty backers threatened to vote Jan Schaffer and Michael money-winners get $1,000-to the Poems." The international reporting award against the pact unless the provi­
Pakenham. family of Don Bolles, an investiga­"Elbow Room," a collection of was won by Henry Kamm of The sion was softened. 
He said, "There have been six tive reporter for The Arizona short 'stories, was the fiction award New York Times, for his stories on Sen. George McGovern, D-S.D., convictions of policemen and a lot RepubUc who was murdered in winner. It continued his examina­the Indochinese "Boat People" who had said he could not vote for of others have been indicted." 1976. tion of the black experience in refugees. the pact with DeConcini's reserva­
The newspaper won for national The general local reporting prize America in an earlier collection, Columnist William Satire of The tion attached, called the compro­reporting in 1975, editorial cartoon­was won by Richard Whitt of The "Hue and Cry." New York Times, won the award mise "generally acceptable." ing in 1976, and special local Louisville Courier Journal for his The literary award for non-fiction for distinguished commentary, for "I have seen the language and it reporting in 1977. _ exhaustive probe of the Beverly went to Carl Sagan for "The his reporting on the Bert Lance is satisfactory to me; it does not do 
The Pulitzer for national reporting Hills Supper Oub fire in northern Dragons of Eden; Speculations on affair. violence to my reservation,'' was won by Gaylord D. Shaw of Kentucky that claimed 164 lives the Evolution of Human Intelli­J. Ross Baughman of The Assoc· DeConcini told reporters. The los Angeles Times, for ltseries .last May. gence". lated Press won the prize for In particular, he said, it covers the on unsafe structural conditions at The history award went to ''The feature photography, for pictures point on which he was most the nation's major dams. It was the Art categories Visible Hand: The Managerial from guerrilla areas of Rhodesia. insistent-that the neutrality pact result of a months-long investiga­Revolution in American Business" The spot news photography award adopted by the Senate last month tion that began after the 1976 Teton The winners in the arts categories by alfred D. Chandler, Jr. went to Jim Schweiker of United would provide that the United Dam collapse. .seemed dedicated too. Donald I. Michael Colgrass won the music Press Jntemational, for a photo­States could act to keep the canal 
Shaw said he was happy that the Coburn, who won the Pulitzer fol' 'prize for his "Dc~ja Vu for Percus­graph of an Indianapolis broker "open" as well as neutral and award went to ''investigative journ­drama, said, "it's marvelous," and sion, Quartet and Orchestra." held hostage at gunpoint. secure . . alism that goes beyond the official then said his next goal was ''to E.B. White, a regular contributor rcontlnued on page 3] ·[continued oa page 3] 
No, it's not his birthday. This Holy Cross resident is just the first of many who will 1M! forced to test the temperature ofthe lake water as spring finally 
Tuesday, April 18, ~78
2_ the observer 
,...News Briefs--------.... 
1==:::========================::=:::::=:::~ National 
Prisoners commit suicide 
MONTGOMERY, Ala.-Two prisoners undergoing treatment for mental illness have hanged themselves in their. cells at Kilby Correctional Center at nearby Mount Meigs, prison officials said yesterday. One used a towel, the other a strip tom from a pillow case, according to John Hale, information officer for the prison board. 
Strike halts arms production 
STERLING HEIGHTS, Mich. -Production of the Lance missile halted yesterday at the Michigan Army Missile Plant because of a strike by 325 members of United Auto Workers Local 809. The strike, which began at ll:S9 p.m. Sunday, did not affect salaried and U.S. Army employees who work at the plant, a spokesman said. 
Youths sought 
INDIANAPOUS -Three youths ejected from a Butler University building shortly before fire destroyed a classroom were being sought by Indianapolis arson investigators. The Saturday evening blaze caused an estimated $20,000 damage in Jordan Hall, which houses the school's colleges of business, education and liberal arts as well as a number of offices . ...} 

Weather· 

There is an SO-percent chance of showers and thunderstorms today, a few thunderstorms may be heavy. Highs in the upper-SO's to low-60's. There is a 40-percent chance of more rain tonight with rain expected to end toward evening. Lows in the upper-30's to low-40's. Cloudy with occasional periods of rain tomorrow and highs in the mid-to-upper-SO's. 
~On Campus Today_~ 
10:30 am-7:30pm 12:15 pm  voting for knights of columbus offices, k. of c. bldg. brown bag lunch, "the psychology of collecting," dr. dean a. porter, nd art gallery sponsor: art gallery  
3:30pm  lecture, "some trends in international health care: a social science perspective," prof. jerome stromberg, world health org., geneva, switzerland. ampithea­tre, Iafortune. sponsored by sociology dept.  
4:30pm  ward-phillips lecture series, "the shopsign: structures in the environment," prof. paulson. memorial library aud.  visual ronald  
4:30pm  talk, "what tells a drosophila female about the frequencies of courting males?--a clue to the minority male advantage mechanism." dr. eliot b. spiess, univ. of illinois, chicago circle. 278 galvin aud., sponsored by biology dept.  
7:00pm  talk, bill veeck, president of chicago white washington hall. sponsored by junior class.  sox.  
7:00pm  film series, "the big sleep," carroll hall, smc.  
7:00pm  meeting, notre dame republicans, general elections to be held. Iafortune aud.  
7:00pm  meeting, organizational meeting for '78-'79 tech review staff. new workers welcome. 205 eng. bldg.  
7:00pm  nd/smc right to life. knights of columbus hall.  

7:30pm meeting, nd/smc right to life. knights of columbus hall. · 
7:30pm opening/reception, exhibition of drawings and prints in isis student art gallery, bruce carter, printmaker. public welcome. isis gallery, old fieldhouse. 
8:00pm second scene drama, "the belle of amherst, william luce. stapleton lounge, lemans hall, nd/smc theatre. no charge. ~ 
8:00pm talk/questions, dean and mrs. james a. roemer discuss student responsibility at notre dame. grace hall pit. sponsored by grace hall and academic-cul­tural commission. 
8:30pm moot court, final arguments, cce aud. sponsored by law school. 
meeting,knights of columbus, k of c hall.
10:00 pm 

9:30· nazz performance, mike tsubota and rex delcamp. 
11 :30 pm basement of Iafortune. 


C.A.P. sponsors-film fest 
The Student Activities Council Popcorn and refreshments will be for the Committee on Academic served. Progress (C.A.P) will sponsor a C.A.P. student members and film festival for its student mem­faculty advisors are reminded of bers and faculty advisors in room 
the change of dates for the C.A.P. Se:~.ior Bar Night from Tuesday,242 O'Shaughnessy Hall on Wed­April25 to Monday, April 24. Thenesday, April 19 at 8 p.m. The event will last from 9 p.m. tofilms to be shown will inClude 
midnight. All C.A.P. student"News Parade of 1938," "NiRht members and faculty advisors are 
and Fog," "The Open Window," 
asked to attend these social activi­and ''The Cabinet of Dr. Caligari.'' ties. 
As religious leader 




Hesburgh second to Graham 
AUeenLavin fano Jr., a secretary of HEW, was, Two Notre Dame trustees were listed as being the most dotttinant also listed as dominant figures in University President Fr. Theo­figure in education, followed by their occupations. Paul Foley, a dore M. Hesburgh was listed U.S. Commissioner of Education 1937 alumnus and chairman of the among the most influential men in .Ernest L. Boyer. ·lnterpublic Group of COmpanies, is education, government and reli­Hesburgh has been listed among. rankedfifth in advertising. John D. gion in U.S. News and World the top five in both areas during the Rockefeller N, the governor of Report's annual survey of "Who three years the survey has been in · West Virginia, was selected as the Runs America." existence. fourth most influential governor in 
The poll asked leaders in 14 Hesburgh was also named as one the nation. different occupations to list the of the four most powerful public • persons they considered to be the figures behind the scenes in gov-Sen1or Class seeks 
most influential in their respective ernment. Co .
1 

fields. Also listed as influential in the UnCII metnberS Hesburgh was ranked second in area of government were Walter religion, behind Rev. Billy Gra­Cronkite, newscaster considered 
Senior Class Officers · are now 
ham. responsible for swaying the think-. 
accepting applications for Senior 
Cardinal Terence J. Cooke, arch­ing of millions; DuPont's chairman, Fellow Chairman and Senior Oass 
bishop of New York; Joseph L. Irving Shapiro, known for his social Advisory Council. A one pageBernardin, archbishop of Cincin­concern and wide accessibiljty; and application giving qualificationsnatti; and William P. Thompson, David Rockefeller, head of the 
reasons for applying may be sub­
president of the National Council of Chase!Manhattan Bank, recognized mitted to the Student Activities 
Churches were tied for third place for the influence he exercises in 
Office in LaFortune Student Center among the top men in religion. many domestic an international from today until Wednesday, April 
In the field of education, Res­enterprises. 26. burgh was considered the third President Jimmy Carter was The Advisory Council will be most influential. Joseph A. Cali-chosen as the most influential composed of representatives from 
American in national decision-mak­
each hall and off-campus residents. ing through position, power and For more information contact Jerry
Course correction ability or wealth. · Castellini at 2216. Biblical Literture (Theology 453) will be offered at 10TT12, not 10 MWF as printed in the Notre Dame Course Selection Booklet. 
The Junior Oass 
*The Observer 

present.~ 
Night Editor: Marti Hogan Asst. Night Editor: Margie Brassil layout Staff: Peggy Miller Editorial layout: Martha Fan­ning Sports layout: Greg Solman the inevitable Frank LaGrotta Typists: Gwen Coleman, Ka · ren Chiames, Tricia Meehan and Lisa DiValerio 
EMT: Mike Bodle Day Editor: Kathy McEntee 1copy Reader: Jack Pizzolato J \Ad layout: Beth Cutter _ 
The Observer Is published Mon. dey thro1~gh Friday except during exam end vacation periods. Tile Observer Is published by the students of Notre Dame arid Selnt Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for S20 per year !S 1o per semester) from The Ob~erver, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, lndlene 44556. Second class postage peld, Notre Dame, lndlene, ·tU56. 
The Observer Is • member of the Auocleted Preu. All repro­duction rights ere reserved. 




physics department· univeroity of notre dome 
RECOMMENDED UNIVERSITY ELECTIVES DESCRIPTIVE ASTRONOMY 
11MWF and 2MWF 

M-. Shilts Alys 210 A-erequisite: A one year Introductory science course Including at least one semester of 
physical science.  
A description of the motion and structures of the earth,  mx>n, and planets.  An  
expositionof the  modem  theories  of the  sun,  stars,  nebulae and galaxies.  An  
introduction of cosmology.  Sorre exal'll>les of the Influence of astronomy on  the  

developrrent of science and civilization. The course Includes elerrentary observational exercises. It is intended rimaril for non-science ma"ors. 
ELECTIVES FOR SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING STUDENTS 
INSTRUMENTATION WITH MICROPROCESSORS Alys 403 1 MWF and dloice of labs Prof. Blackstead 
A-erequisite: Prior experience with BASIC or FORTRAN and permission of Instructor. Design and construction technique for Interfacing conventional laboratory apparatus to mlcr~rocessors will be Illustrated with the use of a third generation 16-blt microprocessor. Students will design and construct Interface clrrults coupling with microprocessors to such apparatus as analog-digital converters, x-y recorders, oscilloscopes, and partiCle detectors. Microprocessor architecture and lnstructlonsets will be disrussed, but the use of asserri:ller language programs will be seoondary to the use of BASIC programs. The design laboratory data aqulsitlon system will summarize the course's activities.,_ 
• • ..,.,_a ........... '• #............ .,. '\.'l..••l• '\.' •:.L •, •• .... .,_,._...,,•,~• .L t':\ I,,,, 1 l..o"t.
--'--~ 
r 

Construction currently underway in the Lafortune rathskellar is not part of the Lafortune renovation plan. With the Student Players production of "Come Blow Your Horn!" opening Thursday night, Mike Carlson [pictired he.re] and the rest of the stage crew are hard at work constructing the set. [Photo by Maureen fl nn 

Senate closer to ratification 
[continued from pagel] "My feeling has been all along that it ought to spell that out, and it didn't," said DeConcini, who had expressed concern that a work stoppage or other internal disrup­tion in Panama could halt canal operations. He said the compromise was a mixture of language proposed! by him and by Senate Democratic leaders late last week. The entire process, he said, was between him and the leaders, with Carter admin­istration officials taking no signifi­cant role. · The language will be introduced by the Senate leadership with himself as an amendment to the instrument of ratification on which the Senate is to vote. Meanwhile, about 100 Pan­amanian students hurled paint canisters against the U.S. Embassy walls in Panama City in a demon­stration against the treaty yester­day. The demonstration was broken up by Panamanian national , guardsmen hurling tear gas gre­nades. Senators on both sides predicted a close vote on the pact, which provides for the United States to gradually transfer control of the 64-year-old waterway to Panama by the year 2000. The first treaty, establishing the neutrality of the canal after that date, was approved last month with one vote more than the required two-thirds majority. , Ten senators were in the un­committed column yesterday, but the efforts of treaty foes were being directed toward capturing the votes of four of them-all supporters of the 
'first pact who have indicated -they might oppos,e the second one. The four were identified as 
'Howard Cannon, D-Nev.; Floyd Haskell, D-Colo.; Samuel Hay­akawa, R-Calif.; and Edward Brooke, R-Mass. 
Hayakawa, who said last week his vote would be affected by President Carter's willingness to make changes in other aspects of foreign policy, .was to meet with Carter at the White House. 
Brooke and Cannon have indi­cated they would oppose any severe weakening of the DeConcini reservation. ' 
Pulitzers awarded 
[continued from page 1] Jeffrey K~ MacNelly of The Rich­mond news leader won his second Pulitzer prize for cartooning, for a satirical depiction of the Internal Reveime~Service's 1040 Income Tax form. He last won in 1972. Mag Greenfield, deputy editorial page editor of The Washington Post, was honored with the edito­rial writing award for selected examples of her work. Walter Kerr, a drama critic of 
The New York Times, was the Pulitzer winner in the category of criticism. 
The Pulitzer prizes in journalism and the arts were established by the late Joseph Pulitzer, publisher of the old New York World. They date back to 1917 and are awar4\ed by the trustees of Columbia uni~.er­sity upon recommendation of :an 
advisory board. A gold medal g9es to the newspaper that wins the meritorious public service award. 
.. I 



ND Student Gov't helps Christian Children Fund 
by Brlgld Rafferty 

As part of its Third World Awareness Campaign, members of the Notre Dame student govern­ment are sponsoring a child from an underdeveloped nation. 
The Third World Awareness Campaign is a branch of the student government that attempts to involve the Notre Dame com­munity in social-justice problems. 
The Campaign has filled out numerous sponsorship forms and is keeping in touch with the Christian Children's Fund (CCF), the group coordinating the program. The CCF will choose a child most in need of food, medical care, and education, which the sponsoring individuals will support with contri­butions. 
''Some people seem to feel that sponsoring a child is a way of easing a guilty ~:onscience, b_ut this. 
project is simply a small and concrete effort at arousing the student body to take positive actions in the problems of Third World countries," commented Kathy Rosenthal, head of the Third World Awareness Campaign. "It's 

1 
something we're doing because it's important to us." 

She noted that frequent com­munication with the child's or­phanage will be necessary, and added, "We hope that this will be a continuing project through future individuals." 
In addition to sponsoring a child, the Third World Campaign will organize conferences with student leaders from other institutions to discuss social-justice topics. The group will also host a Third World Awareness Day consisting of work­shops explaining how one's college major can tie in with Third World: development. 
Tuesday, April18, 1978 the ObServer 
3 
-----:-:------,.....-------~-­

\Desai reveals U.S., India set-up to monitor Chinese nuclear arms 

NEW DELHI, India [AP] • Prime Minister Morarji Desai revealed yesterday that a secret mountain­
. eering mission to plant nuclear­. powered monitoring devices on the . Himalaya high pt!aks was a joint 
operation of the U.S. and Indian . governments. He also told Parliament that one 
nuclear fuel pack lost in the 'mountains 13 years ago poses little ;dang~r of radiation poisoning. 
Desai's disclos,ures about the operation -designed to monitor Chinese nuclear arms development 
. ·-defused a potential crisis in ·relations between India and the United States. The 82-year-old. prime minister confirmed the general outline of the first public report on the mission, in a U.S. magazine last week, but he disputed the maga­zine's assertion that the CIA moun­ted the expeditions in the mid­1960's with the cooperation of 
Noted jurists preside at annual Moot Court 
Three ·noted jurists, including · 
out the Indian govennent's know­hldian iiitelligence agents but with­ledge. · 
The decision to go ahead with the plan was made "at the highest 1 levels by the two governments," Desai said under questioning in 
· Parliament. He said three Indian prime ministers were involved-Jawahari­al Nehru, who died in 1964, L. B. , Shastri, who died in 1966 and · Indira Gandhi. 1 Revelations of unauthorized ac­tivities by the Central Intelligence Agency in India would have provi­ded fuel for opposition and leftist campaigns against Desai's govern­ment, which has been improving India's relations with the United States. Last week the Indian Foreign Ministry had called in U.S. Ambas­sador Robert F. Goheen and de­manded an explanation of the magazine report. At the time 
ministry officials apparently were unaware of the collaboration be­tween the two governments . 
The Himalaya mission was un­dertaken shortly after China's first aomic explosion in 1964 and two 
·years after the Chinese had defeat­ed India in a border war. The mountaintop devices were to moni­tor nuclear testing across the Chinese border. 
The U.S. magazine Outside had reported that CIA climbers were caught in a blizzard and left a 125-pound plutonium-powered in­strument at the 23,000-foot level of 25,645-foot Nanda Devi mountain. It said the team returned the 
· following spring but found the equipment had been swept away by an avalanche. 
Desai said the power pack lost by the joint Indian-American climbing _team contained two to three pounds of plutonium-238 alloy in leaktight capsules. 
the ftrst woman ever to be a chief judge of a federal district court, will preside at Notre Dame Law School's 28th annual Moot Court final argument today at 8 p.m. in the Center for Continuing Educa­tion. The jurists will assume the position of Supreme Court mem­
bers for the hearing.
The visiting jurists include: Cor­nelia G. Kennedy, chief judge of the U.S. District Court ·for the Eastern District of Michigan; Har­old Leventhal, judge of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia and former U.S. repre­>entative in the Nuremberg trial; md John G. Truesdale, member of :he National Labor Relations 3oard. 
The topic oft)lis year's debate is the unionization o:f the associates of a law· firm and the subsequent dissolution of the firm by its partners. The hypothetical case provides practic(: in the art of appelate advocacy for students who represent Notre Dame in national competition. 
Final arguments presented before the visiting jurists are free 


Mandatory An Tostal Meeting TONIGHT 
Senior Bar, 9 pm. You must wear your T -shirt in order to get in! 
~~!S~SS:e~:::S~~~SS:!::~::Sl5it5!:5t5!2:5!:2~~~=:
1 
>
N 




z NAZZ
N 
z 

> TONITE: 
N N Mike Tsubota
z 

fej and N Rex Delcamp
z N >N N 
<( N 

9:30pm z 


seriously folks 

Tax Fantasies 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii, 0 rt buchwaI d 
WASHINGTON--Many maga­TV commercial sitting behind his person to ttle a tax return in 1978.
zines have been doing articles on 
desk smoking a large cigar. I told On behalf of a grateful govern­sex fantasies. It is amazing how him I have been meticulous about 
ment, you have won a free business many men and women will talk my deductions, and he'll find trip to Hawaii for two, a four 
about themselves if their name is everything in order. · bedroom tax shelter in Texas, full not used in publication. But it is 
"He chuckles and says, 'That's 
depreciation ,on your house for five rare to have anyone admit that they what they all say. Why don't you 
years and a tax deductible threehave tax fantasies. After prying make it easy on both of us and tell martini lunch at the restaurant of
and cajoling, I finally got several 
us exactl¥1 how much you have your choice."' people of both sexes to tell me their 
cheated Uncle Sam out of this 
favorite tax fantasies. 

time?' T.R. is a 21 year old careerF.M., 33 year-old divorcee "I say, 'It's all here. Every cent ~oman who has worked her way up 
writes: "It is 11 o'clock at night. I deducted has been verified and m the stock room of a very cheapI'm home alone reading Erica Jong 
accounted for.' department store. Her boss iswhen the doorbell rings. I put on '"Okay,' he says, taking out his known as the "wicked stepmother.' 
my housecoat and go to the door. 
mini calculator. 'If you want to Every April there is a ball given at 'Who isit?":I ask. play rough, I can play rough." He the store before the spring clear­
"'Cohen of the IRS' is the reply. 
starts hitting the calculator with ance sales. 
"'How do I know you are Cohen his fat fingers. It takes three The stepmother says T.R. can'tof the IRS' I ask. 
hours. He goes over the figures go to the ball until she counts all'"Who else would be at your again and again. He can't find one the glass slippers that are still
door at 11 o'clock at night?' 
thing wrong with the tax return. unsold from a previous cindarella"I open the latch and there is His face is red. 'There has to be promotion that never got off theCohen, holding a satchel in his something here.' he says. 
ground.

hand. 'Frieda,' he says, 'I have a "After the fourth time he re­As T.R. is counting boxes a fairy$3,000 refund for you.' alizes that the return is perfect. He Godmother arrives with a new"I gasp and clutch at the top of looks at me, opens the top drawer dress from Bergdorf Goodman and 
my housecoat. of his desk, and excuses himself to a diamond ring borrowed from'"How can that be?' go to the men's room. I wait in my Elizabeth Taylor. T.R. goes to the'"Your ex-husband, at the sug­chair. Suddenly I hear a gunshot ball and meets a handsome prince. 
gestion of his present wife, insisted from the washroom. An aide says, He falls in love with her, but at the on paying the income tax on your 'Don't feel bad. For him it was the stroke of midnight she has to leave. 
alimony, even though he didn't only honorable way out."' 
Sh.e loses h·er glass slipper. After a have to.' He hands me the money futtle search he finally finds T.R. in and I faint dead away. When I B.P., a 42 year-old father of the stockroom and tries the slipperwake up, Cohen is sitting on the three, says his favorite tax fantasy, on her foot. It fits. 
table counting out $3,000 in brand which he has not revealed, even to !fe confesses he is not really a new $100 bills." his wife, starts when he walks into prmce but actually works for H&R 
a post office to mail his tax return. 
Block, the tax consultants. HeL.D., a 30 year-old car salesman, "Suddenly I see television cameras explains to her that if they getwrites: "I have this tax fantasy, and newspaper people. As X put married they could have $345 amaybe two. three times a week. my folder into the slot, Secretary of year on their income tax saved.
I'm called down to the IRS office the Treasury Blumenthal, dressed Overcome with the thought of a taxfor an audit. The agent tells me to up as Uncle Sam, steps up to me loophole, she says yes, and theybring down all my receipts and and says, 'Congratulations, B.P.. 
live happily ever after. 

records. You are the one "He looks like a fat sheriff in a you are the one-hundred-millionth [c] IIJ7lJ L.A. 'runes Syndicate 

Student 
that Mr. Secrest has "the implied recent revelations that the Senior backing of The Observer Editorial Bar has netted in excess of $20,000 Board.'' Presumably, Fr. Conyers profit in the first six months of bases this statement on the fact of operation, I think members who the column's publication. pay a ten dollar membership fee
honesty: I think it is important to quote have a right to know where the the statement on The Observer money is spent. editorial masthead: "Commen­In the article you (Dunne) seem 
taries, opinions and letters are the awfully defensive about implicat­

found and lost 
views of their authors.'' This does ions that you personally. are bene­Dear Editor: not rule out the possibility that The fitting from the Bar's success. I do 
During third quarter we had the Observer board shares some or all not question your statements that pleasure of bringing some students of the views expressed in a given "We receive no profits whatso­to visit the Notre Dame campus. letter or column. But editorial ever" or "nor do we receive any We were impressed with the support is not implied by publica­kind of commission" but perhaps courtesy, honesty and friendliness tion and cannot be assumed. 
that is not the whole story. Your statement ''every bit of that moneyof the ND student body. One of the I don't think anyone would 
girls left her purse in the lunch expect or want The -Observer to is in the First Bank of South Bend" room; remembered it a half hour print only those letters and col­is a bit misleading. I refer to the later; and returned to find hdr 
umns it agrees with. dinner recently at the Boar's Head purse intact. I had intended to Maureen Flynn restaurant for bar employees for write at that time. I do congratu­
which the Senior Bar picked up the late the students! 
tab amourtting to hundreds of Now, I have ttnother item: my dollars ($8.36) for both food and son very foolishly hung his travel liquor. You state that you would

A look 
not like to see the profits used for things into his dorm. When he 
pac on a tree while carrying other "a reduced beer price for some

at Senior Bar 
guy's seventh or eighth beer" but gone. It contained much needed do not seem to mind if they are items ofclothing. He searched and Dear Editor: used for your seventh or eighth has not found it. Clothing and pac I recently wrote a letter to James 
returned to get the travel pac it was 
beer. I st:e nothing wrong with were clearly marked with his ND Dunne, general manager of the rewarding t:mployees for dedicated laundry number and name. Alumni-Senior Oub concerning the service, but I do feel that this 
I hope the person who found his management of the Senior Bar. should have been mentioned to a travel pac· and clothing lives up to After four weeks I have received no reporter inquiring about the use of our original opinion of Notre Dame reply. Perhaps an open letter will profits. 
students and returns the pac and prompt Mr. Dunne to respond to I would .sincerely be interested in contents. my inquiry. taking a look at the accounting Mrs. Frank Kazan Dear Mr. Dunne: 
records of the Senior Bar (I assume I read with interest the articles in they are not secret) ifonly to assure the Observer (March 7) concerning myself that the funds are beingImplied the Senior Bar, one of which used properly and that their use quotes Dean Roemer to the effect reflects the "honesty, integrity and that the University is not concerned efficiency of the Senior Bar staff." with making a profit at the Senior With the hope for continued Bar. If this is the case, why is it success in your management of the 
support 

of "Cheers"? 
necessary "to build up the bar's Senior Bar I look foreward to many profits to approximately $25,000 by more enjoyable evenings there inDear Editor: the end of the year?" There seems the future. 
I wholeheartedly join in Fr. 
to be some contradiction here. Sincerely,Conyers's applause for Joel Se­Also, I do not consider questions John M. Larrabeecrest's ·'Cheers." 1 hope the regarding the use of profits as Oassof'78
current Observer Editorial Board shares our support for Mr. Se­Editor's note: Following Its poUcy,
"giving the managers a hard time" crest's observations. the Observer contacted Mr. Dunne.
nor does such a question "imply that we (you) are benefitting from
But as a former editorial editor, I IDs reply will appear on the next 
thl1 profits.'' Considering the
must refute Fr. Conye~:'s assertion editorial page. . , 


The Observer 
an independent newspaper serving Box Q the notre dame and saint mary's Notre Dame community Ind. 46556 The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the poiJCres of the administration of either institution_ The _news is reported as accurately and as objectively as po~srble. Edrtonals represent the opinion of a majority of the Edttonal Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters are the views of their authors. Column space is av~ilable to all members of the community, and the free expression of varying oprmons on campus, through letters~ is encouraged. 
EDITORIAL BOARD 
Tony Pace Editor-in-Chief Steve Odland Managing Editor John Calcutt Executive Editor Barb Langhenry Executive Editor Rosemary Mills Editorial Editor Phil Cackley Cory Editor Jean Powley St. Mary's Editor Ann Gales News Editor Mike Lewis News Editor Diane Wilson News Editor Ray O'Brien Sports Editor Bryan Gruley Features Editor 
Tuesday, April18, 1978 
DOONESBURY by Garry Trudeau 

Many thanks ..... 
Dear Editor: 

As a result of the "Caring and Sharing Week-End" initiated by Sister Verene Girmscheid and .resi­dents of Badin Hall, the eighth graders from Sacred Heart School, Chicago (inner city), found it extremely difficult to say goodbyes to the many friends they made on the University -campus this past 
•weekend. The spirit of the Notre Dame family ·delighted their hearts and souls with such love and enthusiasm that tears moistened the cheeks as farewell time ticked around on Saturday. 
The weekend was summarized for me not with words or with paper and ink but on the faces of the students we love. Smiling faces, sudden giggles, free laughter and "May I have your address?," "Can we come back again?," "Send me your picture," and "Come to my graduation." These actions and comments tell the story of joy and love and goodness that we found here. The ND students gave of their talents and shared the rich­ness of their lives. 
The discussion leaders touched the very core of the young stu­dents. ·The tenderness that sur­rounded them nourished them to health of spirit. This indeed was caring in action. Many thanks to Mary Ann Kay, Marianne Murphy and Jean Sculati for the tremen­dous work as discussion leaders. Special thanks to the residents of Badin who shared tnerr llvtng quarters, and who spent long hours baking goodies. The women of Badin were tremendous. Sincere thanks to my friend Sister Kathleen Rossman and her students at Walsh for giving us the use of their facilities for the week-end. We were treated royally by everyone. 
Thanks to all the students who entertained and joined us for fun on Friday night. Special thanks to Renard Gueringer who stole our hearts. Thanks for the beautiful liturgy and the prayerful moments (especially to Nancy Murphy and Mary Ryany of St. Mary's). 
Last but not least -our sincere thanks to Sister Verene for the outstanding work done behind the scenes in her own quiet, efficient and loving way. You are a shining example of sharing and caring and what it means to us. Many thanks to the University personnel and many caring people on campus who stopped by to witness a happening and to share the joy that was ours. May God bless all of you in your wook for God. 
Ann O'Brien 
Principal, Sacred Heart School 

---~-~-~-~---.~ -~ -~-----....-----.-----------~ 
!Tuesday, April18, 1978 the ObServer 
~--------------~==~====~=---~ 

Goods, services now not enough 
by Man Perry ting, "Executives only talk to other regarding social responsibility." StUf Reporter executives. They mirror each For this reason, Estes has propo­other's views, and reflect these sed social accounting model which 
Corporate morality was the topic views of the past into the future." will hdp reflect::'. which corpora­
ofa brieflecture given last night by But pressures from several tions are more socially responsible 
Ralph W. Estes, professor of '>OUrces ·nave forced the corpora­and allow investors and others to 
accounting at Wichita State Univer­tions to look harder at their social assess each of these corporations. 
sity, in the Galvin Life Science responsibilities Estes pointed out, The major problem with this 
Center auditorium. The lecture noting that pressure has come model is the need to decide what 
was sponsored by the Joint Univer­from investors and lenders. He social activites should be measured, 
sity Committee of Business, Theo­cited the example of an investing Estes noted. "What one person 
logy and Philsophy, and was well firm which conducted a survey to views socially unacceptable may be 
attended. ask their shareholders if the com­deemed acceptable by another." 
Estes began by saying that since pany should invest in socially "But decisions must be made on the 1960's, society's expectations :responsible corporations, even if it ~ltat .shoulrl be measured," Estes for large corporations have chang­'meant a smaller profit. 63 percent concluded. "Corporate morality
ed ggnificantlv. In the past of those questioned agreed that the can be measured. Accounting will according to hsies, society expec­firm should invest in the socially leave it up to the philosophers and ted corporations to provide goods responsible corporations, even if it theologians to decide what should 
and services.and jobs.. meant a smaller profit. be measured." "But today," he 
-Estes also said.that ·regulatorycontinued, "corporations are ex­agencies are starting to becomepected to provide not only goods concerned with social responsi­.Interviews,
and services, bUit they must meet bility. He said that the Departmentquality standard:;. 

of Commerce is now committed to
And not only must jobs for interviewers 
forming some kind of corporate
be provided, but they must also be /The Bleifeld Group of Fort
social performance standards. 
safe and pay we:U." ·wayne, ln., will interview appli­''Also, society will let you make a Pressure has also .come, Estes cants for 10 positions as field profit, as long as you don't pollute observed, from public interest or­·interviewers today at 4 p.m. inganizations which have a great
the water or air, and you don't Room 222 .of the Administration 
discriminate, or conduct other acti­capacityfordiscovering social prob­building.
vities that are socially unaccep­·lems in corporations without cor­Juniors and Seniors will be 
table," he added. porate cooperation. Other pres-needed for a few hours daily at a sures stemmed from tlegislative
Estes than said that the corpora­rate of $3 per hour from April 25 to 
action as well ias market behavior .. 
29. The Bleifeld Group is an 
"Because of these pressures," agency specializing in interviewing Estes remarked ''corporations have users of public transportation sys­be_gun to disclose their actions tems. 


'• THEE NEW SPECIALS • 
presented by the 


r• LffiRARY .,
• 
TUESDAY Michelob Light Night 
WEN (daze) 
14oz Draft special soc 
LARGEST DRAFT IN TOWN 
7-+ midnite


THURSDAY 7 & 7 special 

7-+ 10 

CARRY OUT SPECIALS Old Style 12 pack -,$2.79 
Blatz -$5.05 per case 
McSorley Cream Ale 6 pack -$1.59 
Kamchatka Vodka -$4.50 quart 
Note: TAX NOT INCLUDED Supply Limited 

.... ....
------------------------~-----~~-~---~­

1

Tuesday, April18, 1~78
the observer 
6 

German town fears 





U.S. presence 
GARLSTEDT, West Germany Merchants hope to reap some [AP) -The newest U.S. Army economic benefits from the influx garrison overseas is provoking local of Americans, expected to boost fears of nuclear attack, environ-the depressed economics of the two 1 mental destruction and GI ghettos towns. \ even before the first American But environmentalists claim the troops arrive. surrounding countryside will be 
To strengthen NATO defenses in· ravaged by the brigade's 54 tanks 
the north, West Germany and the United Sates are spending $106 million to build the military base in this dreary farming town of 2,000 and separate housing facilities. seven miles away at Osterholz-Scharmbeck, a neatly kept city of 15,000. 
Army officials are expecting a 9,000-community of servicemen and their families, including a 3,800-man tank brigade from Fort Hood, Texas. It was not known whether any recruits were aware of the local opposition. 
"This used to be a one-horse town. But now it's all changing," said Wilfried lffert, a Osterholz-Scharmbeck official. 
"In a few months every second man on the street will be an American." 
r--------------~-----------~corporations and estates. 
A Special Presentation 
Commemoratingthe SOOth Anniversary · of Thomas More's Birth 
a man



'or aII
11 

Seasons 
by Robert Bolt 
The Center for Continuing Education 
Auditorium 

All seats $2.50 {$2.00 students) Reservations: 284-4176 

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~;;;;;;~;~:~'t;h;e;~~c;~;e:g:o;ri:e;s·~~~~~~~-··~~~~&~~~~
there was anything we could do
l 

and other tracked vehicles. This quiet, sleepy farming area is marked by wind-swept fields of grass and crops, scrubby pine trees and bleak acres of peat bogs. 
Anti-NATO groups argue that the U.S. garrison will make the region a prime target in the event of a nuclear attack. 
Local citizens collected thous­ands of signatures opposing the army's decision to house the sol­diers' 4,500 relatives in 1,027 apartments. 
Critics fear the two towns will turn into U.S. "military ghettos" like American posts in southern Germany where most of the 200,000 servicemen are crammed into overcrowded barracks. 
''The city council wanted to spread the U.S. housing among 

Somewhere in the Third World, your family is waiting. Your brothers, your neighbors, men, women and children very much in need of your love. 
Imagine how much you can do for them. You can share God with them, give them hope and peace and dignity. You can counsel and educate them, give them food, clothing and medicine. Even in their world of grinding oppressiorl, you can help set them free. I 
It will take a lifetime, but after all, they are your family. In God's eyes, ever~­one is your family. 
Let us tell you more about life as a Maryknoll Missioner. Send usithe coupon dr call toll free (800) 431-2006, it could be your ticket home. 
Maryknoll Missioners ND31 I
people who give their lives for people 
I 

DIRECTOR OF ADMISSIONS • Maryknoll Missioners • Maryknoll, N.Y. 10545 1 
~~~ I 
Please send me information about becoming a Maryknoll Priest l · Brother Sister , I 
Name. ______________ I 
I

Address ·1·-----· --· 
I 

City ___________State .. _Zip Code 
-I 

Age ___ Phone Class I 
College --------·.._.·-------~Year of Graduation·---·-I 
When the fund-raising drive was announced a year ago Saturday. it 
was the largest ever attempted in
April 20 
the history of Notre Dame and the 
12th largest then underway in
21 
American higher education. The

and 22· 
campaign seeks virtually to double the University's endowment by

8:00PM 
adding $92 million. A recent ranking of American colleges and 
(io;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;:.;;;~~iil universities had Notre Dame 24th W in size of endowment. 






N. ( 
:I: The campaign also seeks $29.3 
L-million for physical facilities and 
,--$8.7 million for current use funds.

SMC'
~. Overall, 53 percent of the endow­
73

ment goal, percent of the physical facilities goal, and 86 ·percent of the current use goal 'have been achieved. In addition,T H AT' R-E ~$8.1 million has been given outside 
several communities, but the Army refused," said lffert, who serves as the mayor's liason with the U.S. Army. 
An Army spokesman explained that housing was lumped together so the servicemen's children were in walking/ distance of their new schools. 
We~t !Jermany is spending about $86 mtlhon to equip the 3,000-acre tr~ining site, formerly a German finng range, with red-brick bar­racks, mess halls, offices and garages. The post's community center and schools are costing the 
U.S. government about $20 million. 

Campaign for NO hits $85.6 million 

One year after its initiation, the University of Notre Dame's $130 million development program has achieved $85.6 million, or two­thirds of its goal. A total of 33,522 gifts and commitments have been made by individuals, foundations, 
1 

{)i~"RJ'rTby Michael Molinelli 


'Holocaust' embar,•asses 
I 
1 
West Ge•man government
I • 

Bonn, West Germany [AP)-The West German government, sensi­tive of its image abroad, finds the television film "Holocaust" and other portrayals of the Nazi era deeply embarrassing. But officials 
realize they can do little about them except try to stem any anti-German tide. 
''This is part of our history, a dark 
part. There's no sense denyingit," said one German official as he thumbed a copy of Gerald Green's book, based on the four-part series he wrote for NBC-TV. 
about anti-German films on late shows in the States,'' he added. "Finally we decided there was nothing." 
The influential liberal West German newsmagazine Der Spiegel said West German diplo­mats in the United States feared the series might lead to "a new anti-German wave" among Ameri­cans influenced by the film. 
Government sources told The Associated Press that information officers at West German embassies in Washington and elsewhere were briefed on how to respond to questions that may arise from the four episodes. 
"We're not really afraid of an anti-German wave as a result of this series," said an official, who asked not to be identified because of his position. "If it had been produced 10 years ago, well perhaps." 
Throughout its 29-year history, West Germany has sought to distance itself from the Nazi era and has paid millions in compensa­
************************* The Student Union is Looking for a Good Persons 
Adviuy, study and spedalty staff pomions need to he filled 
Iatve name and phone Il1JI11lxr widt s. u. setretary . (7757). 

tion to concentration camp vtcttms, most of them now living in Israel. East Germany has refused to pay individual claims. 
A recent public opinion poll by the German magazine Quick found that more than 90 percent of the West German people wanted to forget the Nazi past and hoped the rest of the world would as well. Another poll showed a surprising number of young Germans had never heard of Hitler. 
Critics of the Bonn Government note that former Nazis have risen to influential posts within West German society, including former Chancellor Kurt Kiesinger and Hanns-Martin Schleyer, president of a powerful business association who was killed in a terrorist kidnapping. 
In a letter made public by the ruling Social Democrat warty last August, former Chancellor Willy Brandt warned his successor Helmut Schmidt of a growth 'of neo-Nazism in West Germany. Much of the ultra-right extremism is based in groups of World War II veterans and rightist workers groups called "comradeship feder­ations." 


SU sponsors logo contest 
The Notre Dame Student Union is sponsoring a logo contest. A new logo is selected each year and is used on all Student Union posters and advertisments. A prize of $25 will be awarded to the designer of the logo selected. All entries must be submitted to the Student Union offices by 5:00p.m. on April 28. 
r-------------------------~---~----~----~------------------------~------------------------------~--------~-----, 
Tuesday, April18, 1978 
7
the observer 

MOVE member surrenders, requesting water 
PHILADELPHIA (AP)-One month to the day after. police cut off food and water supplies to the headquarters of a radical group, the first of the 25 persons holed up in' the three-story brick house has surrendered. 
The surrender of Isbongo Africa, 28, marked the first break for pol,ice in their almost year-long confronta­tion with the group that calls itself MOVE. 
Police said last month when they set up the barricade that they hoped the radicals, who te1m themselves a back-to-nature group; would surrender when their water and food ran out. 
Unofficial estimates of the cost of the police oepration, which began last May when the group bran-• dished weapons and shouted threats at police, run as high as $3 million. As many as 200 policeman at atime have been stationed in the neighborhood and police sharp­shooters have surrounded the MOVE house for the last month. 
The 25 members of the group, which includes about five children, have their headquarters in an inner-city neighborhood within walking distance of Drexel Univer­sity and the University of Pennsyl­
vania. 
~~~~~~~~~~~~..-.~~~~~··...-----------..... 
t t 
need posters in a

t There are a few t 

huHy? 

tt 1977-78 tt 
1 Freshman l 
1 Registers 1 
I 
t left t insly·printsf G t -f. l $1 t the wiz of the printilJ8 biz! 
t e y~urs ~ow Jor on y t 100-11 x17 posters 
t ~ 'at the Student Union t ~~~Y : 11 ~~n t ' Ticket Office t UJo1wntown So· Bend 289-697 
~~~~~~~~..-..~~~~ 

MOVE members havQ hinted roached the ·speaker's platfonit, 
. that in addition to a cache of arms crossed in 1mbmission andI weapons ·inside the house, there silently mouthing, "Don't shoot, may also be booby-traps and don't shoot." explosives. Police have warrants Police said the first thing Africa ­for the arrest on weapons charge~ · 1many MOVE members use the of 19 MOVE members. same surname · requested was 
1 Police said Africa leaped to the water. He told police that food ground from a makeshift speaker's supplies were adequate, but that platform outside MOVE's house· water was contaminated and early Sunday morning before other several of the women and children members of the group had arisen. 'had dysentery. Africa, according to police, ~pp-Africa, 28, also bown as David 
Law .quality exceiUent 
[continued from page 1] then served as an attorney for the such specialized lawyers· as judges Office of the Solicitor General for would be a mistake. the United States. 
A native of New York City, Following World War II heLeaventhal graduated first in his entered in to private practice, andclass as an .undergraduate in was appointed to his presentmathematics from Columbia Uai­position by President Johnson inversity. At the age of 21 he went on 
1965. 
to receive his L.L.B. from Columbia University, graduating first in his Since his Presidential appoint­class once again. He received the ment, Leaventhal has served as a Ordronaux prize for this, as well as member of the Advisory counsel for the Toppar prize for the best paper Appellate Justice. He has been a in Constitutional Law. lecturer at the University of Cali­
After graduation, Leaventhal fornia at Los Angeles, American served two clerkships for the University Law School and Colum­United States Supreme Court, and bia Law School. 




CLASSIFIED ADS 
NOTICES 

Need ride for one lovely girl from Pittsburgh & back for An Tostal weekend She can pay, she can drive, and she's good company! Call 6734. ., 
Dissertations, manuscripts, etc. typed IBM Selectric II Linda's Letters. 287-4971 
FLANNER RECORDS INVENTORY CLEARANCE SALE: ALL $7.98 LP's in stock only $4.97. All $6.98 list LP's in stock only $4.39. All double LP's specially priced. Flanner Records 322 Flanner Ph. 2741 Hours: M-Th 4-5, 6:30-8:00 
NEED QUALITY TYPING? Executary, Inc. Professional Typing Service IBM Correcting Selectrics. $.85 per page minimum. Call 232-0898 "When you want the Best" Resumes: $3.00 per page. 
FOR RENT 

fine houses in good neighborhoods (Portage & Angela area) Reasonable rents. For 4-5 or 6 students. Contact Joseph Gatto 234-6688. 
·Staying for the summer? Rent a house and live off campus. Lower summer rent. close to campus. Call 8730 or 8742 for more details. 
Two completely furnished houses for rent this summer. A couple blocks from campus, safe neighborhood. One four bedroom. one six bedroom, approx. $100 a month. 277-3604. 
1-bedroom apartment to sublet for sum­mer. Good location, secutity, good terms. Call 288-7258. 
2rooms for rent, summer school. $40 per month. 233-1329. 
LOST &FOUND 

Found: Girl's watch at Library circle. Call 277-5883 to identify. 
Lost: Gold bracelet at Cinnabar's at Junior semi-formal last Sunday night. $25 reward. Call Roseanne at 4-1-4719. 
Lost: 1 pair plastic frame glasses in brown case. Call John 8642. 
Lost: Blue NO jacket at Nickle's. Reward. Name in jacket. 
Found: Gold watch with black band. Please call and identify. Joe at 288­
2688. 
Lost: To the guy who picked me up hitchhiking I left ared folder in your car­

tests  enclosed.  Please  call  Mike  287­ 
5568.  
WANTED  

One small couch and large carpet. Call 4-1-4289. 
Waitresses needed -full or part time for local niteclub. Must bo 21. Looking especially for girls staying here this summer. Good pay. Apply at Vegetable Buddies. 
New restaurant needs waitresses and kitchen help. Experience helpful, but not necessary. Apply in person after 1p.m. at Aunt Mike's Breakfast Barn, 51277 U.S. 31 N. one block N of Auten Rd. South Bend. Ask for Aunt Mike 
OVERSEAS JOBS-Summer-year-round. Europe, S. America, Australia, Asia, etc. All fields, $500-1200 monthly, expenses paid, sightseeing. Free information ­Write: BHP Co., Box 4490, Dept. 14. Berkeley, CA 94704. 
Needed: Roommate for next year to Iive off-campus. Have place now in Turtle Creek. Also willing to move! If interested call Tim anytime after 11:30 p.m. at 
277-5331. 

_......._______ 
Need ride to Madison or Milwaukee weekend of April 22. Call Katie at 6798. 
Ride needed to D.C. area after Senior formal. Will share driving and $. Call 272-5281. 
Tennis Pros and Assistant Pros •Seasonal and year-round clubs; good playing and teaching background. Call (301) 654-3770 or send 2 complete resumes and 2 pictures to: Col. R. Reade, WTS, 8401 Connecticut Avenue, Suite 1011, Cnevy Chase, MD 20015. 


One small couch, good condition. Call 4-1-4510. 
Mother works mlghts · live-in babysitter needed. Will pay small wage. More for home than wages. Phone 291-0531 before 5:00. 
One small couch, good condition. Call 4-1-4376. 
FOR SALE 

1968 Nova-71,000 miles, a little rough, but it runs good. Tires new August 77, Battery new November 77. $200 or best offer. Call Jeff 232-6177 before 10 a.m. or after 9 p.m. 
Stereo equipment major brand discounts on fully guaranteed, factory sealed audio­video eqpt. Elliot Enterprises, Park Court, Buchanan, Mic~1. 49107 Call Niles toll free 683-0121 . 
Full color Cotton Bos:l and USC foot­ball; UCLA, Kentucky and Maryland basketball pictures for sale. Sports Il­lustrated material at a low 11rice. Call Doug a1 8982 or stop by 318 Zahm. 
Used golf balls like new $20.00 per 100. & other prices. Call 272-Q783. 
A girl's AMF roadmaster bicycle for sale. Good condition. B'est offer. Cal 4-1-4001. 
Technics turntable-Model SL-1400MK2 professional series, direct drive. Mint condition -only 2 weeks old. Need money! Call Mark 233·5256.$ 
Last offer. Classical Ovation guitar with new hard case. Perfect condition. $225.1111 Call Gene 1694.• 
71 MGB-GT sacrifice. 288.-9614 aft. 5. 
PERSONALS 

Hi Bill! G 
Brief profile of the 5amoebas· Pete Cannon: Former candidate, etc. Mike Gilroy: Keg violator Joe Murphy: Leader of an underground accounting faction. Kevin Elpers: The life blood and cyto­plasm of this team and for your viewing pleasure...last but not lease, 'The Amaz­Ing Condol We pity our ·opponents; Murray and the Plo 
Curtis, was released without bail . Sunday after he was arraigned on l various charges, including weap­
ons offenses. 
Referring to the treatment of 
Africa, Sheldon Albert, city solici­
tor, said Monday: "Obviously, it's 
an encouraging sign.'' The city has 
promised that MOVE members 
who surrendered would be/allowed 
to choose an observer to watch the 
police procedures and would not 
be jailed while awa~ting trial. 
The confrontation dates back to 
last May 20, when armed MOVE 
members threatened police after 
city inspectors were denied en­
trance to the premises to check' 
alleged safety and health code 
violations. 
MOVE, an interracial group, espouses a back-to-nature philo­sophy and think modem technology has a corrupting influence on man. It believes in returning raw gar­bage and human waste to the earth, layering it on top for the sun to rot. 
Teachers needed in Dallas 
Dallas Independent School Dis· trict of Dallas, Texas will interview applicants for teaching positions on May 9. Certified instructors of secondary math and secondary science are needed. Interested students may sign up now at the Placement Bureau. 

Tell me about the paper of the week!! 
Katie, Sandy Sue, Rosemary & the rest of the 0bserver women 

Question: Will the 5.Amoebas destroy their first round opponents on Thursday at 5:30? Answer: You oiit your semi­niferous tubules! 
Stubs(alias Potato) Burrhead, James at 20 and Humps. Thanks for the personal. Let's climb the Dome and grow a vegetable garden. Babble. Try to whistle and smile at the same time. Irrelevant. Signed the Six Pack (The Bear Women) 
Vote Otto UMOC: He doesn't try to impress you with his looks. 
Need ride to Cleveland April 21 will share driving & expenses. Call Gabe 6814. 
Kelly Tripucka for UMOC -Send contri­butions to 221 B-P 
Green 76 MGB for sale. Excellent condition. Call Shari 4-1-4981. 
Columbus, Ohio female roommate want­ed to share apt. this summer. Call Debbie 1329. 
-----~-~---------­
SMC-ND students: Are you an adopted child? Volunteers needed for a sociol(l_9­ical project. Please contact: Claudia (SMC) 4544. Confidentiaity & Anony­mity assured. Please contact before April 20. 
-·---------·-------­
Class of 1981 "Communicate your spirit" Vote: Sweeney, Hill, 'Megargle, Cornbos 
Danny, After our rematch in backgam­mon you won't be able to say that a girl can't beat you at anything. 
Usa 

FREE LESSONS ON HOW TO ABUSE THE NIGHT EDITOR GIVEN EVERY OTHER WEDNESDAY NIGHTII 
Rich Branning: Sorry you missed the party we held In your honor, It w111 gntt tlmel Signed, KD, MR, JG, PF, CW, BB, LC, MH, RJ, JK, DG, TY, KT, AS & the rest of the gang! 
. SLJ, Megan David's purple -no wonder you like it. (It goes with glazed donuts)SLP 
GRADUATING SENIOR 
Roses are red (you know what that means!) And SLJ's are purple Sugar is sweet (and white and innocent) And his roommate deserves thousands of violets! 
.Are there such things as white viclets? No!! At least not for him! 
BAND VOTERSJIT¥t'O depa:tmel!tals have me studying late this; week, In _. bandroom. Any questions? ComfnP D~ by and let me know! Sll!' Z 
·Ortly 2 more da'IS ' 
take to the ~· 
Come seG tt 
·8-ball Wlzan 

---·-----­
·S!Jme ca!i hl;n Mnz1.1, rut In reality, his name !3 Cam. 
... 
I •

;;~.;.~!· 

·Tuesday, April18, 1978
8 

the observer 
Irish place fifth in Arkansas Classic 
by Fl'llllk LaGrotta while Ahmad Kazimi's 14.08-meter Sporls Wdter (46 feet 2-1/4 inches) jump was also good for sixth in the triple 
Notre Dame put in a fint jump. Geor~e Matteo vaulted 15 performance at last weekend's feet 114 inches to take seventh in Third Annual Arkansas State Uni-the pole vault while the mile relay versity Invitational Track Oassic team finished fifth with a time of where they finished strong fifth in 3:17.38. 
a field of 13 teams. Team finishes (in order of place) 
"We did really well," said Coach were: Kansas (141 points), Arkan­Joe Piane, "especially when you sas State (104 points), Florida (94), consider that last year we finished Mississippi State (72), Notre Dame tenth out of 13 teams. Tenth to (64), Memphis State (39), Arkansas fifth is quite an improvement." Tech (24), Central Arkansas (12), 
Piane cited the performances of ·ouachita (11), Arkansas-Monticell Dennis VanderKraats and Steve (6), Harding (5), Henderson State Welch as being the best of the meet (5), and Arkansas-Pine Bluff (4). 
for the Irish. The squad has a busy weekend in "Dennis placed second in both store for them with both the the 3000-meter steeplechase Kansas and Ohio State Relays on 
(9:01.5) and the 5000-meter run the schedule. The Irish will be (14:41.50). That's quite an ac-sending six runners to the Jayhawk complishment. Steve's first-place classic, this yeal' held in Norman, finish in the 5000-meter (14:33.49) Oklahoma and Coach Piane is was also excellent. anticipating what he calls "one of 
"The 800-meter run was also a the best track meets in the very classy race for Notre Dame as country." Jay Miranda (1 :50.66) and Chuck Aragon (1:50.75) finished second "We hope to place in both and third respectively. Arnie relays," points out Piane. "Tha1 Gough did very well in the 110-would mean finishing in the tor meter high hurdles with a time of five. Of course we'd love to win bu1 
14.93 which was good enough for it's going to be tough because some fifth place in that event." of the best relay teams in the Other high finishers for the Irish country are going to be there." included Mark Novak's third place The Irish will enter Bill Allmend· finish in the 10,000-meter run. inger, Chuck Aragon, Peter Burger
.. Novak was clocked at 31:19.0 in the and Jay Miranda in the 2-mile relay race while teammate Charlie Fox with Kurt Spieler replacing either took fifth place in the event with a Allmendinger or Burger in the time of 32:23.4. distance medley. Dennis Vander-
Ernie Mester took sixth place in Kraats will compete in the steeple-the Javelin with a throw of 51.76 chase event. meters (169-feet, 10 inches) while The balarice of the squad will Mike Meyer grabbed fourth place visit the home of Woody Hayes to in the discuss with a 46.88 meter participate in the Ohio State Re­throw (153 feet, 10 inches). Dan lays. Piane is expecting good Horgan ran a 15:06.61 in the results from Columbus, Ohio as 5000-meter run to take sixth place well.
Greg Solman~==:==:::========================:=:=======================================:======::;:;:;:;:;:;::==:================: 



Bookstore :1999 
==:===================:==:::::::=:=:=:====:=:====:=::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::;:;:;:;::=::;:;:::::::;:;::=======::;:;:;::=:::::::=:=:=:::::Journal 
Tell me it ain't true... 
Change the name from "Bookstore Basketball" to "Behind the ACC on-a-Painted-Court Basketball." Weep, and wail' and nash your teeth. The Bookstore finals will no longer be held behind the bookstore. Commercialism has found the last remaining holdout on campus, and offered it a contract. 
Gone are the days of the hearty fan, who would crane his neck seven rows bad to get a glimpse of a bookstore classic. No more will he be content to see the game through legs and elbows. Gone are the days of dented bookstore rooftops and cracked tree limbs. Is nothing sacred? 
One day, many years from now, when I return to this campus an alumni, I'll probably catch sight of some enamoured, wide-eyed, coneheaded freshman who will be walking toward where the Golden Dome once was, asking such questions as, "What is a Catholic?," and "Who is Emil T. ?" and "Did they really used to have priests here?" 
Finally, the little nipper will break my heart when he queries, ''why do they call it Bookstore Basketball?" You see, by that time, the commercialization of Bookstore B.asketball will have set in for good. Picture the possibilities: 
--There will probably be a separate dome built in the ACC just for Bookstore, with a full time, cigar smoking tournament commissioner to keep things crooked. And a "Bookstore Information Department." 
--You'll be able to watch all of the action over WBSB, your "Bookstore Basketball Network,'' with 1 ,324 affiliates nationwide. I can hear Brent Mussberger now, saying, "Today in Bookstore Basketball, it'll be Linda Lovelace and the gang(Bieep) against Frampton's(Bleep) Comes Alive," while the "Theme from Star Wars" is played in the background. We'll even have to hire real, live, crummy professional officials. They'll probably have half-time features like "Digger Phelps On Roundball," and dunking contests, pitting Orlando Woolridge against John Stenson, in "today's matchup." 
--By that time, Tom Sudkamp will be ready to retire, and he'll be toured to all the courts on campus to standing ovations. All viewers will tune in to see "Suds" walk off the court for the last time, only to see the momentous occasion pre-empted by scenes of the Burke Memorial golf Course, and a shot of Dave Knee taking his second shot on the seventh hole. Fans will be in an uproar. 
--The WBSB network will run a campaign to keep out tl:jose filthy, obscene team names, in an attempt to force cleanliness on to the poor, oppressed, huddled Notre Dame masses, yearning to be crude. They'll be forced to have names like, "Lazarus Rises Again," "Stevie Wonder and the Musicians," and "Happy Rockefeller and Betty Ford and the Politician's Wives.~· Wait until their ratings go down. They'll learn quickly. 
Imagine this conversation between a student and student athlete in the future: 
rrish standouts in Arkansas State Invitational. .. 

Dennis VanderKraats Steve Welch 


Belles nip Kalamazoo, 5-4 
by Debbie Dahrling both teams losing to Kalamazoo. scores of 6-4, 6-2. 
Sports Writer Cindy Schuster and Tami· Griffin Noreen Brachen battled against lost, 4-6, 4-6, to Christie Bishoip Kalamazoo's Christie Bishop but and Sheila Wang. St. Mary's was overpowered in both sets, 
The Saint Mary's tennis team Noreen Brachn and Mary Scott losing 1-6,3-6. Kelli Broger played defeated! Kalamazoo College on jumped ahead in the first set of a close three-set match against Friday for the first time in three their match to beat Kalamazoo's Cindy Chiappetta and was finally years with a close score of 5-4. Kenworthy and Thompson, 7-5. defeated, 5-7, 6-3, 4-6. 
Kathy Cordes, SMC tennis coach, But SMC could not hold on and "Defeating Kalamazoo is a good credited the win to the perfor­they were defeated in the following sign for us for the regional tourna­mances of seniors Barb Timm and sets, 2-6, 0-6. ment," Cordes explained. "We Loise Purcell in their doubles The Belles' strength was seen in probably will meet Kalamazoo in match against Kalamazoo's Sue the singles matches with SMC the regionals and with this win, we Fitzgerald and Merrill Smith. winning five out of seven matches. have a good chance, especially in "Timm and Purcell really came Timm defeated Fitzgerald, 6-2, our singles matches," she added. through for us to give us the 6-4, while Purcell easily handled "As for our doubles matches, I winning points," Cordes her Opponent, Smith, 6-2, 6-2. think the cold weather in Michigan remarked. They outlasted Kala­Schuster and Griffin also domi­really did not help us," Cordes mazoo in three sets with scores of nated their matches with scores of stated. We have been practicing 3-6, 6-2, 6-2. 6-3, 6-1 and 6-2, 6-0. Mary Scott, inside for the last three weeks and 
The other two SMC doubles in an exhibition match against we were not ready to play outside matches did not fair as well with April Kenworthy won for SMC with in the cold." 
Bookstore games begin today 
by Ray O'Brien it did not take the directors long to two__consecutive championships. Sports Editor rule that only one varsity basketball This year Batton and his cohorts players per entry would be allowed. will be attempting an unpreceden­
The seventh annual Bookstore Last year another rule was ted third consecutive title. Batton Basketball Tournament begins this included to make the competition also owns bragging rights to two afternoon on the Stepan, Lyons and even more balanced by limiting MVP awards. Bookstore courts. This year's each squad to three varsity ath­The tradition behind the Book­bonanza once again boasts a vari­letes. store Tournament has enabled it to ety of 256 teams ranging from the While such notable as Adrian become something special with dominating squads of varsity foot­Dantley, Tom Clements, Steve crowds of hundreds swarming to ball and basketball players to the Niehaus, Greg Marx, Ross Brown­grab a seat for the finals each year. 
Rockne diehards and asphalt hack­er, Dave Batton and Duck Williams Bookstore Tournament regulations ers. have "graced" the Bookstore require that all games be played courts there have been many regardless of weather conditions. The annual event has progressed non-varsity athletes that have es­While last year's finals were played dramatically since its inception in tablished themselves as dominant under sunny skies, this has been 
1972. Fritz Hoefer, a 1972 gradu­figures in the "iron-man" tourney. the exception rather than the rule ate is credited with the idea for the Perhaps the most celebrated of in recent years. tournament with the original these "regular" players is Mike What would a tournament be 
-groundwork in organizing the Bonifer who led the 31 club to two without be without awards? Book­competition into a traditional Bookstore titles (and one Joss in the store Basketball has more than its occurrence credited to Vince Meco-finals) earning All-Bookstore fair share including AU-Bookstore, 
mi. The first bookstore champion­honors three times and the Most Most Valuable Player, All-Devine ships squad read like a "Who's Valuable Player Award in 1973. team (football players), Hoosier Who" in Notre Dame sports. The Bonifer has the distinction of being Award (biggest gunner), Golden 
fabulous five included John Shu­the only players to be named Hatchet (biggest hack), Best Team mate, Gary Brokaw, Dwight Oay, All-Bookstore three times. Name, Dr. J. Trophy (best dunker), Peter Crotty and Oiff Brown (the In recent years the "Irish Colt," and Iron Man A ward (best demon­starting quarterback· in 1971). Dave Batton, has become an im­strator of qualities of an "iron After the dominance of this squad movable force leading his team to man.") 
Rogers wins Boston Marathon 
BOSTON AP. Favorite Bill Rodgers sity graduate now attending the Olympian in 2:14.07. a bulldog on his hometown course, seminary, came out of the pack and Rodgers, a 30-ycar old former wore out his chief rivals and then just missed overhauling Rodgers. school teacher who now operates a hung on despite a late kick by Wells, winner {)f the Oregon Track sporting goods store in Boston, unheralded Jeff Welts to win the Club Marathon, was clocked in gave a thumbs-up sign ..long the 
"Gee, ah. Tom, buddy, I know it's next to impossible, but. can . can you get me tickets for Bookstore Quarter finals?" '' " the athlete will hedge uncomfortably, "That's a tall order. I was wani,;g list for ten years. I'll tell you whai. My cousin from North Dakota 1u• a,l .,~inal surgery, and he said he may not come up for the game if :hey don't . -, · :m on the plane in his semi-comatose state. If he doesn't come, you .~a.· tave his ticket." "Great! How much:"  82nd Boston Athletic Association Marathon Monday in the closest finish in the history of the the race. Rodgers, who set the course record of2 hours, 9 minutes ·and 55 seconds in 1975, came within 18 seconds of that mark, plodding 26  2:10.15, the third fastest time in BAA history . Edsa Takkanen of Finland was third in 2:11.15, edging 1976 Marathon champion Jack Fultz, a former Georgetown University standout, by 2 -seconds. Randy Thomas, a Rodgers' protege, was  route. He saved his biggest salute for friends who' cheered from outside his store about four miles from the finish. Given ideal weather, overcast and the temperature about 50 with little wind, Rodgers wore out Frank Shorter, the 1972 01ympic Mara·  
"Two hundred."  miles, 385 yards from Hopkinton to  fifth in 2:11.25, followed by Kevin  thon champion who was runner-up  
"You mean you'd give it to me for ticket price?" "Hey," the athlete will grin, "what are friends for?"  Boston's Back Bay in 2:10.13. Wells, a 23-year old Rice Univer- Ryan of New Zealand in 2:11.43, and Oregon's Don Kardong, a 1976  in a vain bid for another gold medal at Montreal two years .ago.  






