




Carter pushes for more student aid 
WASHINGTON (AP]· President In addition to making two million Grants are credited directly to starting in the fall of 1979, an 
Carter called upon Congress yes-students from middle income fami­students' accounts at the colleges. increase of at least two million. terday to provide a record $1.2 lies elegible for direct federal Carter wants to add $1 billion to Rep. William D. Ford (D-Mich.), billion in new aid to college · grants for the first time, the Carter the $2.16 billion basic grant pro­who heads the House of Education 
students, including S250grants to plan also would provide subsi­gram which now aids 2.2 million and Labor subcommittee on higher at least two million students from dized loans to students with family students primarily from low-in­education called it ''the biggest families with gross incomes be-incomes as high as $45,000 before come families. single infusion of funding for tween $16,000 and $25,000. taxes, and expand federally subsi-The president already proposed middle income college students "No one should be denied the dized work study programs. $250 million in extra student aid since the adoption of the GI bill at opportunity for a college education The extra money would be last month. The entire $1.46 billion the end of World War II.'' 
for financial reasons alone," the available for the school year start­package would boost federal spen­Five other leaders of House and president declared as he unveiled ing in the fall of 1979. Students in ding on college student aid pro­Senate committees that handle an aid packae designed to head off families with incomes below grams in fiscal 1979 to $5.2 billion, education legislation joined Carter 
moves in Congress to provide tax $25,000 would apply individually to an increase of almost 40 percent. and Health, Education and Welfare credits of $250 or more to parents the government for the grants as Carter said more than five mil­Secretary Joseph A. Califano Jr. at of all college students, regardless part of the Basic Educational lion college students could get the White House for the announce­of income. Opportunity Grant Program. federal aid in the school year ment of the program. 
The six lawmakers all hailed the adminitration's proposal, but some later expressed reservation about limiting the grants to $250 for all students in the $16,000 to $25,000 range. 
On Capitol Hill, Sen. William V. Roth (R.-Del), author of the $250 college tuition tax credit bill, said PRESIDENT CARTER the Carter proposal was ''a desper­ate last ditch attempt to derail the leased the first page of an undated college tax credit, but it won't Califano memo in which the secre­work." tary wrote: 
The Senate has passed Roth's "We must move quickly if we are bill by wide margins three times in to seize the initiative on this very the past 18 months, but House hot issue ... The congressional edu­Democratic leaders have blocked it cational committees are so fearful from coming to a vote in their of losing jurisdiction over education chamber. financies that they will go without 
Roth said the administration was \!S -and at a very high price." more interested in seizing a good Roth's bill would cost $1.2 billion political issue than in helping in its first year and $2 billion in four middle income families. He re-[Continued on page 4]
t••···············••t
BCAF speaker preaches + . + 
+ +
against Black tokanism + + 

to Sengstacke, blacks onty occupy problems a young, black business­

"Blacks must wage a continual token poisitions today in most man is likely to encounter. "Black war against tokenism,'' · urged major industries and labor unions. businessmen, as a rule, must fight : black newspaper publisher John Sengstacke highlighted his state-on two fronts; against blacks who Sengstacke, the third in a series of ments about tokenism with stories have no faith in their product and t guest speakers for this week's from his own experience. He against the ridicule and sarcasm of .6.. · .·· ~ .6.. Black Cultural Arts Festival. related that in the American Soci-white oecple. This is a by-product ,.. ,, ? 
~edngstacdke tspbokekon th~roble ~f the ety ofbEd~tors,. he tf"s hthe&onlyhblahck of slavery,·· he commented. h ·: ""''· ·.· , ·\ .6.. 
m epen an 1ac man m usmess mem er, m sptte o t e 1act t at e The Black publisher spoke on is ~.· · I before a small crowd in Washing-continually urges his colleagues to problems of getting white adver-·· -.. ,..., .,..l ? ton Hall last night. hire black editors. tisers and getting the newspaper ! .6.. 
"The bottom line is what it's all Sengstacke told the audience distributed on white newsstands. I about and the bottom line is that "It's up to you to do something He t'.!en talked about his news-? making money,'' Sengstacke said. about prediudice, because the paper, The Chl-oo Defender, and " 
t 
He pointed out that Blacks are American d:mocracy has not fully The National Newspaper Pub-,.·...· being deprived of business oppor-met its committment. This is one lishers Foundation, an organization : tunities because of the "predjudice country; this is what we are he founded in 1940. ~nd tokenism" of _the people in fighting for. ~11 the ~oups_have to Sen.gstacke discussed at length '*. . mdustry. Blacks will only be able get together, he satd, noting that the htstory of the black laborer, : .· A to obtain power positions, Seng-"Black Americans are living in the from colonial times to the present. · I stacke went on to say, when shadow of the greatest industrial ''The first and most vital contribu-· ,.. "present black executives stop nation on earth." tion ofthe black man was the ~labor, Viewers watch in disbelief as a Wednesday night poker player running arou.nd on an ego trip and Sengstacke then proceeded to which is the material foundation. of wins another hand at the Mardi Gras table. [photo by Beth start helping people." According talk about some of the other Western industry," he stated. Cutter]
,.......................... .••••••••••••••• 
Ill 

+ : WS ANGELES [AP] • A balding, "~on't get too excited about this .6.. mustachioed 37-year-old actor was ~lostn~ t~e ~k on ~e whole ,.. booked for investigation of murder mvestigation, Booth satd. . .· .. , < +yesterday after he called police to ~e arrest came one day_ after 
..·. .6.. talk about the Hillside Strangler , pollee ~eleased part of ~e contents : ···. ? case, officers said. of a sa page hand-wntten letter
+ .·· ..~ + The man identified as Ned T. , purportedly sent by the strangler A .6.. York, was arrested at his home in · last month to Maror Tom Bradley ,.. " ,.. the Hollywood Hills. Some of the and appealed agatn for the strang-A bodies of the dozen victims of the ler to. surrender... . ,.. strangler have been found in the Pohce had satd thc:y were not
+ 

hills, police said. su~e whether the letter actually was .A. ••He made certain statements wntten by ~he strangl~r, but ,.. that provided investigators enough Bradle~ promised the wnter fullt cause to make the arrest, • • protection should he tum hemself 
Assistant Police Chief Daryl F. m · . . Cates told a news conference. He york apparen!ly dtd not wnte the said York's statement suggested letter, pohce satd . that he had a relationship with one A neighbor, Juan Iazcano, des­of the strangler victims. cribed York as a "normal man, a 
The 6 foot 4, 240 pound actor has nice person." He said York was played mostly small roles in a married. variety oftelevision series. His last Police said York called officers 
known appearance was earlier this resterday morning and ramble~ month in a rerun episode of ABC's mcoharently about the much pubh­"Starsky and Hutch." cized strangler case. He later was 
York was wearing an armsling taken to headquarters. when he was arrested, explaining Police Cmdr. W'tlliam Booth to officer that he had been hurt in a declined to disclose what prompted scuffle with his dog. [Coatlaued • JN118l] 
' __...,..._.,...... 4 .......... 
:--.. 




the observer Thursday, February 9, 1978 

,_News Briefs____......._, 1:::::::=========~=:::::=:===~==-=~ National 
Pre-med threatens prof 
[NOCR]-A pre-med student at San Jose State University has been charged with several felony counts stemming from an anonymous threat to one of his professors that a bomb would be planted if a scheduled exam was not canceled. The student is charged with actually setting off a small bomb ina campus office, apparently to back up his threat. 

Canine curiosity 
SAGINAW, Mich.-A quick-shifting German shepherd, left alone in a car yesterday while Mary Jane Reilly ducked inside a grocery store, decided to follow her. The result: $150 in damage to the storefront and car. The dog, Baby, apparently threw the gearshift into drive and the car leaped forward into the front door of the building, according to Saginaw County deputies. There were no injuries. 

Bicycle radar at BYU 
[NOCR] • Bicyclists beware on the Brigham Young University campus where the security police have star:t~d using hand·h~ld radar units to trap speeders. Because of a nsmg number of bike accidents, the police have established a speed limit of 10 m.p.h. and will fine speeders SO cents a mile over the limit. Bikers will also be fined for impeding traffic, failing to obey stop signs, and driving too fast for conditions. 

Weather 
Clear to partly cloudy and cold through Friday. Lows around 10 tonight. Highs today in the low to mid 20s, and in the mid to upper 20s tomorrow. 
,._On Campus Today_~ 
12:15 pm mass, celebrated by fr. griffin, Iafortune ballroom, held daily during lent. 
2:45pm film, "benin kingship ritual," nd art gallery. 
4pm lecture, "modulation esr spectroscopy: principles & application in radical kinetics & chemically induced electron polarization," by dr. henning paul, spon­sored by radiation lab, rad lab conference room. 
5pm mass, right-to-life, celebrated by bishop me manus, moreau seminary chapel. 
5:15pm mass, social awareness & justice, celebrated by fr. me neil, walsh chapel. 
6 pm­expo nd, mardi gras '78, live entertainment, games midnight & refreshments, plus special appearance of cartoon­ist jim berry, stepan center, admission $1. 
7 p.m. meeting of the college republicans in Iafortune auditorium. 
8pm recital, faculty harpsichord by bruce gustafson, sponsored by smc music dept, smc little theatre. 
8pm bcaf, theological discussion by rev. clearence rivers, fr. edward brackston & fr. giles conwill, washington 
hall. 

%The Observer 

Night Editor:·Stf;lve Odl~qd Asst. Night Eaitqn Margie BrassH layout~··· TOill.····· Monroe,.T!tn .. Hamiltqn, Anne lo~nz, Ba Codaro;. C:hris Slatt, Jjm.Rudd Features: Leo Hansen · Sports~ Ray O'Brien Typists; Stacy Weaver} Gwen Coleman, Katie BrehL lisa DiValerio EMT: Mardi Nevin · Day Editor: Marian UJicny Copy Reader: Jack Pizzolato; Beth Cutter Ad Layout: Greg Trzupek Photographer; . Beth Cutter Resident Pest: Sandy ;Colson 
}.-:f\{1)!' 
~,. 



~:~fff:t!l·, 
"iJ4tj. 
bJre>e>V~ 
I 
The Observer is published Mon­d•y through Frid•y except during ex•m •nd vacation periotis. Tt)eObserver is published by the students of Notre D•me •nd S•lnt M•rv's College. Subscriptionsm•v be purctt•sed for $20 per ye•r ($1 o per semester) from The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notn D•me, lndlene 46556. Second clau postege p•ld, Notre Dame, lndi•n•, 46556. . The Observer Is • member of the Allocleted Press. All repro­duction rights •re reserved. 



Art exhibit features pastry 
KANSAS CITY* MO. [AP] • Jill art, childhood," she said. "That's Gardner says her pastry art exhibit a great thing about it. I get to play featuring cookies baked with brok­with my food and call it art.'' en glass and such delicacies as The show is set up to resemble a "Hot Gross Buns" is "all about bakery. Among items for sale are attraction mixed with revulsion." crepes, rolled rubber discs contain­
"Some people might say this is ing vase line, glue, toothpicks and about American eating habits, matches, and looking like crepes. some might say it's about sexual A collection of crescent rolls has frustration," said Miss Gardner, newspaper clippings, steel wool 21, whose "How Sweet It Is and rubber bands among its in Emp-orium" opened yesterday at gredients. Viewers can be teased the Kansas City Art Institute where by Nitty Gritty Dirt Bread-baked she is a student. loaves of "whole earth'• gravel, 
"There is a lot of me in it -sex, straw and mulch; and Dreadzels ­
Blowing snow poses threat to grain storage bins 
WEST LAFAYEtTE* IND. [AP) ­Snow that blew into grain storage bins during the January blizzard poses the danger of serious spoil­age or freezing if undetected, a Purdue University farm engineer warned yesterday. 
The engineer, Bruce McKenzie, said because of high winds and fine snow, snow has become packed in areas that usually don't trap snow. Many round, metal bins have at least one to two feet of snow and some bins have the entire under­roof area filled, he said. 
Since each foot of snow is roughly equal to one-half to one inch of water, there is enough snow in the bins to wet the surface of the grain, possibly down a foot or more, McKenzie said. 
If the grain spoils or freezes, ''this can result in both storage and unloading problems,'' he said. ''Any snow deposit more than just a skiff of two on the grain surface should be removed." 
Removing it, however is hardly simple. McKenzie said walking on the grain surface wiii mix the snow into the grain. Unloading the grain passes the snow through the center of the mass and might leave some snow mixed with grain "where it can cause problems later," he said. 

The simplest technique McKenzie advised is to usesome form of solid rake or scraper to pull the snow to where it can be shoveled into a container. 
A faster and less tedious method is to rig a small areation fan to draw the snow through a duct, which could be moved around the bin to remove the snow. 
McKenzie said any storage bin that is filled in a peak cone near the roof must be partially unloaded before the snow can be removed. 
''Drawing the upper surface down into a cone will make inspection easier, make the aeration system work better if fines are prevalent in the center of the grain mass, and should get rid of any rewetted grain," he said. 

Car found where ?? 
LOS ANGELES [AP] -Whoever been digging in a backyard and stole Rosendo Cruz's elegant Fer­found something unusual below the rari more than three years ago surface. decided to go underground with it -On Tuesday, the two officers, literally. aided by heavy equipment, unco-
About a week ago, sheriff's Sgts. vered a green 1974 Ferrari-a car Joe Sabas and Lenny Carroll were worth at least $18,000 when new. flagged down by children who had Investigators said the car was 
purchased by Cruz of Alhambra, Calif. in October 1974 and was
Lecture reported stolen two months later. They said they did not know how it came to buried in the backyard of a home here. Neither the present


cancelled 

tenants nor the home's owners knew anything about the vehicle, in"estigators said. 
Fr. Bryan Hehr, director of the Except for a small hole, above th International Justice and. Peace ht taillight, the Ferrari appeared Division of the U.S. Cathohc Con-good condition. 
ference, has cancelled 

tonight's If*** ***************************** 
lecture, "The Individual and Inter-* 
national Policy,'' because he has 
been detained by excessive snow in 
Boston. 
The lecture was to be held at 8 
p.m. in the Galvin auditorium. 
f~ 
i 
-tc 
~ 
'RESTAURANTE ~ ~m~ME~L -tc 

FREI:!!! : 
Soft drink ·with 3 it{'ms : TACOS • t)ABY TACQ -tc 
• IIRRITOS • TAIIAIIS 
t 
• 
EJelllAIAS • TMO tOC 

• 
TOSfAIOS • IEAJ TACO ~


~ 
• 
IAIIEQIE TACO ! 

• 
SPAIIISI lOT 001 : 


• eiiEESEIUIC£1 -tc "We carry a line of 
~
iC

egetarian Foods. 
: 

-
glass-filled pretzels. 
People see these cookies with 
glass and needles and nails sticking 
out, and their first feeling is 
wanting to eat them, even though 
they know they're dangerous," 
Miss Gardner said. 
Her instructor at the institute, 
Hugh Merrill, said the show ''is 
aggressive...well done in a fertile 
area of taking an everyday object, 
basically defenseless ... and trans­
forming it into something obnox­
ious, lethally dangerous, causing 
the viewer to focus in on things 
they take for granted, such as what 
may be called woman's work being 
examined by women." 
Miss Gardner put on her first one woman art show in 1975. But the pastry exhibit represents a bizarre new step. 
"It was just an-experiment in basic dough. Like being a mad chemist," Miss Gardner said. "I set the kitchen on fire twice ... " 
Although many of the items are inedible, some are tasty even though they look repugnant. There are heart-shaped cookies appearing to drip blood, and gingerbread figures sporting peg legs. 
Those who have seen it so far, Miss Gardner said, have shown " ... little negative reaction, al­though my mother looked at it and said, 'Wierd, Jill, wierd." 


Hillside ·slayer questioned 
[Continued from page 1] police to book York. The bodies of the strangler's victims all have been found in hilly areas near roads or freeways in sections and suburbs north of the city, the first on Sept. 9 and the last on Dec. 14. 
Several of the victims were connnected with prostitution or the Hollywood street scene police said. 
Mandy Green, assistant to "Starsky and Hutch" producer Joe Naar, said York did two episodes of the police series "Nightmare," first shown Nov. 28, 1976, and "Murder Ward," first shown Oct. 8, 1977. 
Both episodes were rerun within the last month on a late-night mystery series. _.,. 
In "Nightmare" York played a police officer and had two or three lines,'' she said. The episode was a lighthearted piece in which Starskey and Hutch attempt to bust a ganster. 
In "Murder Ward," Green said York played an orderly in a mental institution who was dealing in drugs. 

E X po N D * * 
• • : 


J·m Berry Cartoonl•st * 
I • * 
mSophomore Class ~ A Talent Show 
R 

I)
I 

G R 
A
s 

,8 
:
* 
!: 
* 
:
t
* 



AN : 
lYaii~ I ....

6:nnna•-I.AJII"""IYI ·~~ ~ nD1dcw-ttusday : aBIIiSSDl $1.00 :* 
* 

SPONSORED BY lt-
I I NOTI\E DAME CHABITIES ~ 
iC*****************••••••••*********' 

. 

---~ 
Thursday, February 9, 1978 the observer 





tr-------------------------1 
t 

t Profs comment 
f 


t on student illness 
Jane Gordon, associate professor of 
t aue Zimmerman 
Nursing at St. Mary's. "Students
t Many students worry about should evaluate how ill they are,'' she commented. ''they should
t 
missing important class lectures or think of themselves, but they must assignments when they become ill, also think of the other students int and so attend class despite their the class." "Students who are sick illness. This is foolish according to should take care of themselves and t many Notre Dame and St. Mary's not give me a cold," agreed
professors. 1 Pr ~
t When questioned about class Psycho ogy o,essor D. Chris 
Anderson.

attendance, professors stressed
t that the health of the student was The only doubts expressed by
the professors about excusing

t of primary importance. Accounting absenses, were in cases where a Profess'?r Ray Pow~ll . capsulized student misses class and is not
t 

the feehngs of. a m~}onty of the~e really ill. Emil T. Hofman, dean of professors, notmg, H a student ts F h y ar f St d' 'd
t . d res man e o u tes, sat 
really ill and foll~ws the pr~e "!'e that all sick students should go to 
for absence whtch the untverstty th . firm has outlined, there will be no,.,-e m . ary · . _ .
f Rigorous college life seems to have taken it's toll on these young students. [Photo by Steve Odland] A problem about making up assign-"Students who are ill should go ments or tests. Of course, a directly to the infirmary and let the


---------------------------Jt 
teacher's first concern is for his medical people make the decision student's well being." as to how sick they are," Hofman Not only do sick students harm suggested. "The students· health themselves when they attend class, is of first importance and the
Power emergency declared 
they also jeopardize the health of medical staff is best qualified to other class members. Emphasized care for this." 

INDIANAPOLIS [AP]· The Public Service Commission officially de­clared an energy emergency in Indiana yesterday, laying ··the groundwork for mandatory power cutbacks expected early next week. 
As the commission acted, Gov. Otis R. Bowen's top two energy advisors ; toured the state to spread their message that the situation already is serious . and growing more so with each day of the coal strike. 
Bowen returned from Washing­ton where he met with the state's congressional delegation, and pledged to redouble efforts to reduce the government's electrical consumption. 
The State Highway Commission asked electric companies to cut back on lighting on interstate highways. 
"Mandatory cutbacks are imminent, and when I say imm­inent, I don't mean a matter of weeks. It's a matter of days," Wlliam Sorrells, director of the Indiana Energy Office, told a news conference at Terre Haute. 
"Every residential user of elec­tricity in the state of Indiana is going to have to cut back all non-essential electricity use. Com­mercial users will have to cut back too. They can no longer afford the luxury of outdoor lights, display lighting and bright, cheery 
~..~o~~o~..~o~~o~..~u~..~o~-.oo~-.o04..HD~..~o~..Go~-.o04..~D~..~D~..~o~..GD~~' 

Sanda



~Singing ValenH•I 
. 
/
Plaee nan at liMa• laltiJf 12 -6 p111 FaiJ 9, tO, ti 


~~~~~--~~~~~~~~~-.~~-.d 
stores." Sorrells said if consumption isn't cut drastically soon, rotating black­outs ''are not out of the realm of· possibility. They are very defi­nitely a possibility." 
At Muncie, William J. Watt, the governor's spokesman and chief energy adviser, said the mandatory cuts in electrical output probably will come as early as Monday. 
The coal shortage is most serious, he said, at Public Service Indiana, the state's largest electric utility, and Southern Indiana Gas & Elec­tric Co., which serves Evansville and other parts of the state's southwestern corner. Other large utilities, such as Indiana & Michi­gan Electric Co., which import power from neighboring systems also face cutbacks, Watt said. 
The Public Service Commission 
issues  its  order  a  day  after  a  
hearing  to  assess  the  gloomy  
situation.  
The commission found  that  an  

emergency does, in fact, exist, "with respect to the generation, transmission and distribution, of electric energy due to diminished fuel supplies, and especially that of bituminous coal." 
The order, written by PSC Chair­man Larry J. Wall ace, said the "health, safety and economic well being of the citizens of the state of Indiana may be jeopardized unless 
emergency measures are taken to make optimum use of existing fuel supplies." 
That would include mandatory curtailments, but the commission delayed that step until another 
hearing Friday. 

Enroll now! 
In order that the University may plan for next years enrollment, Fr. Michael heppen, director of the Office of Student Accounts, re­quests that students follow the advance enrollment procedures outlined in a recent letter sent to them. 
All students who intend to return to Notre Dame for the 1978-79 academic year must forward to Student Accounts, either by reg­ular mail or in person, their I.B.M. card and a SSO deposit no later than Friday, Feb. 17. Students holding full academic scholarship, includ­ing athletes, ROTC scholars, and students on faculty grant-in-aids, must, according to Heppen, bring the enclosed I.B.M. card to Student Accounts in person before Feb. 17 and indicate that they are on full academic scholarship. 
Those students who fail to make the Feb. 17 deadline will be charged a $10 late fee. 


The Doctor Recommen(ls 
~t plenty of Rest 
& 

-'8JGet your Flu Shots!. Jack Daniels soc 

Schnapps 



1he Smior Bar 
the only place to go! 
I 
~· 
Thursday, February 9, 1978
the observer 




Sadat terms Carter talks a success 
WASHINGTON [AP] Egyptian president Anwar Sadat ended his talks here yesterday without an immediate decision by President Carter to sell him jet fighters. But he said the United States would step up its drive for an Arab-Israeli peace settlement. 
"The United States is not an observer, or a go-between, or a mediator," Sadat said. "No, the role of the United States now is complete partnership. •• 
With that statement to reporters, Sadat claimed success in one of the 
two principle objectives of his five official who declined to be identi­and one half day visit -more direct fied. "It'll be a little bit longer," involvement by Washington in the he said. on-again, off-again peace talks. Pressing his case hard, Sadat had 
However, disappointment loomed told members of Congress that he for Sadat as he prepared to take his would ''Raise hell" if they did not lobbying campaign to Europe when approve a weapons sale. "I am administration officials said no speaking as a partner and I am decision was imminent on selling threatening," he said. him jet fighters and other weapons. After a final talk with Secretary of 
Sadat's request, made to Carter State Cyrus R. Vance the Egyptian on an urgent basis, "Is under leader stressed the diplomatic as­review and until the president has pect of his mission. made up his mind there will be no "I came really disheartened and announcement," said one key U.S. discouraged, but I shall return with 
Howard's leadership forum 

increases role awareness 
by Sue Weutcher was to do some planning of hall Sheridan McCabe of the Counsel­activites for the coming semester. ing Center and his wife Mary Clare The forum was sponsored by the of the Office of Student Affairs had 
A forum dealing with leadership hall president and vice-president, a great deal to do with the planningroles took place in Howard Hall along with the hall staff, the Office and running of the various work­during the weekend of Jan. 14 to of Student Affairs and the Counsel­shops.
16. ing Center. Those invited to attend Gorski noted that the highlight of According to Father Eugene included the hall secretary and the leader forum was when Hall 
Gorski Howard Hall rector, the treasurer, section leaders, com­President Jim Daly and Vice-Presi­purpose of the Howard Hall Lead­mission members, and "Leaders­dent Tim Nickels gave their ver­ers' forum was to "increase the at-Large" of Howard Hall. sions of te nature of leadership
participants' awareness of their Gorski stated that they were roles in the hall. leadership roles and to help them interested in having a fifth forum Daly said that a year ago the attain some of the techniques because the first four "contributd forum concentrated on defining the 
necessary to carry out these roles." contributed much toward well plan­leadership roles. This year the 
An additional goal of the session ned activities in the hall." Dr. emphasis was on the expansion of those roles. "The keynote of the forum was leadership through

Bishop will offer Mass 
service. Facilitating friendships is a very important goal for our hall," 
The Most Reverend William E. community cemetery at 6:15 p.m. he said. McManus, bishop of Fort Wayne to pick up students leaving the Nickels pointed out that the and South Bend will offer Mass in Mass. section leaders are more than justcelebration of God's gift of life this Because of the extra stop, the messengers from the Hall Council. evening at 5:00p.m. at the Moreau 6:15 p.m. shuttle may leave St. ''They must act as a catalyst to Seminary Chapel. Students wish­mary's a few minutes early The keep the sections moving," he ing to attend this Mass may take shuttle will stop behing the South emphasized. Nickels also commen­the shuttle bus leaving from the Dining Hall so that students will ted the importance of the
on Notre Dame library circle at 4:30 not miss dinner and the South leaders-at-large. These are mem· 
p.m. and from the Lemans lot at St. Dining Hall will also honor St. bers of the Hall who are found to be 
Mary's at 4:45 p.m. Mary's food validations for those organizers within their sections, The bus from Notre Dame and St. Mary's students attending the even though they hold no official 
St. Mary's will then stop at the Moreau Mass. positions. "It is important for them to get involved, even though their role is not concrete,'' he said.

Daly stated that the Hall pro­vides an alternative to the aca­demics and competition. "It is some place to come home to. The forum should improve this by making the goal more obvious to th the section leaders, commission­ers, and leaders-at-large," he re­marked. 
Gorski added that Howard Hall will definitely have another lead­ers' Forum, but that it may be· structured differently, according to the needs of the hall at the time. "The Forum has become an on­going instrument to improve life in this residence hall,'' he concluded. 
8th Winner of Four 

................................................................. 
I ~~~~~~~f0~·· N1:! a> l G i i SilL t 21-WlBI{ BAR., I 
! ff.BRliHd ~~ ,25-FRi.,% I II \X'iO \XDH"1005 Al/fliLA11Lt Nf»> foR...: !: i ~NA&tf.~ tllV~ B£ No MM 01. LaW ?JUDEJJJ i 
I WEEK! Golden Globe Awards! 

I ~.tMfi.: lh\1.1 & ~tl5tXViort wirR ~iNftb .&Pf:IJ.fJJ£! I i fM:fEAirt"2l,CAAOf~ ~ fr1 fJ5f BE'11 ' AND WiLLiNtn ! 



1..··~··t 

I Li>fAJ.N APAX:A11bN Iff ~D~Nr AFmiR5 OfRL~ LtMANS i
. -, .
Weekdays 7:15-9 :40-Sat. Sun. 1 :45-4:15-7:15-9:40 PM 

! DfADu·.ve. :Pt~R.'i 11, tR.Iow I
. SPECIAL FRIDAY 8:15 PM-----.• 

I OOt:tft'ctJ~~~-CALL 43/q 511(.. .I 
.~AJOR STUDIO SNEAK PREVIE 

. ' 
I • 
, J Come early as 6 p.m.-See both films for price of one 

.................................................................!
;;
d..,.,.._loiAiiL"'_______________.... 

more perseverance, so that we I&D Egypt would not get F-15s and attain our goal," he said. ~ . F-16s until 1983 or 1984. Sadat has cited "urgent mess­
Sadat said he could makt ··• ages"from Somalia and Chad, twogreater effort now that the Uni!et 
allies which have conflicts on theirStates was enlarging its role. • hands, to underscore his weapons
effect, he wants the administrati• to push Israel into concessions. request. Sadat told a group of 
american newspaper editors whileSadat planned to fly to New York he was here that he has alreadyand then on to London after a brief sent Soviet-supplied Arms to Som­courtesy call on Carter. 
alia and might provide troops forIn asking for arms, Sadat specific­Somalia in its war with Ethiopia.
ally requested 120 F5E's, a short­This prospect may have caused range jet fighter, and expressed some second thoughts within theinterest in more sophisticated F-administration, which is committed15s and F-16s, a second U.S. 
to ending that war through negotia­official said. 
tions. "The best bet is that he'll get Sadat will be followed to Wash­
some F5E's" said the official, who ington next week by Israeli Foreign
also preferred to remain anony­Minister Moshe Dayan. The mous. But the official said he principle U.S. mediator in Middle doubted that Congress which can East peace diplomacy, Assistant block arms sales, would approve Secretary of State Alfred D. Ather­
more

supplying Egypt with the ton Jr., will meet with Dayan in advanced planes. New York on Thursday, U.S. 
Even if that deal went through, officials said. 
Carter pushes aid 
[Continued from page 1] 
years, when his credit would rise to 
$500. The American Council on 
Education has estimated that 31 
percent of the benefits would go to 
students from families with income 
above $25,000. 
Carter warned that Congress 
must choose between the tax credit 
and his increased aid package. 
"This nation cannot afford the tax 
credit and I will not accept both," 
he said. 
The council also has estimated 
that only 12 percent of federal aid 
now goes to college students from 
families with income above 
$15,000. 
The council president, J.W. Pel· 
tason, sent Carter a telegram 
supporting Carter's aid package as 
an alternative to tax credits, and 
endorsing his plan to funnel the aid 
through existing aid programs. 
Califano gave this breakdown of 
the entire $1.46 billion increase: 
$1 billion would be added to the 
$2.2 billion Basic Education Oppor­
tunity Grant Program. 
The maximum grant would climb to $1,800 to $1,600 and the average student from a family in the $8,00 to $16,000 range would get $1050, up from $850. The minimum grant of $250 would go to all in the -$16,000 to $25,000 gross income 
range. 
$165 million would be added to 
the $435 million College Work 
Study· Program, under which the 
government pays 80 percent of the 
salary for a student's part time job. 
The extra money would provide 
work for 280,000 additional stu­
dents raising the total over one 
million. Some 380,000 would be 
from families with incomes above 
$16,000. 

$327 million would be added to 
the $540 ·million Guaranteed Stu­
dent Loan Program, uuder which 
the government guarantee loans 
and in most cases pays the interest 
while the student atteRds school. 
The interest rate upon repayment 
is only seven percent. 

The interest subsidy, now limi· 
ted to those from families with 
gross income of about $30,000 
would be available for thoes with 
gross incomes up to $45,000. 
Califano said the interest subsidy 
was worth as much as $250 a year 
for some of these families, and 
would give them "the cash they 
need to ease liquidity problems." 
More than one million loans were 
made this y~ar. including 300,000 
to students from families with 
incomes over $16,000. Califano 
said the new money would make 
loans available to 260,000 more 
students in that range. 
' ' 

' ' ' 
' ' 
' 
-

' ' ' 
-
-
-







Army saves the day 
[AP] -With help from Army  27 victims in Connecticut, Massa­ 
troops, with equipment flown from  chusetts and Rhode Island. There  
Texas, with shovels and determin­ were nine storm-related deaths in  
ation, the Northeast began a mass- Pennsylvania and more than a  
ive cleanup yesterday of the up to  dozen in the New York City area.  
two feet of snow that buried the  Many of the deaths were blamed  
region. In the midst of it, Boston  on overexertion as people attempt- 
was hit by a second power failure in  ed to shovel snow that drifted to 6  
two days.  feet and more. five men on board  
In other areas, roadways remain- a pilot ship that had been sent to  
ed impassable because of snow or  the aid of a grounded oil tanker off  
thousands of stranded vehicles,  Salem, 'Mass., also were feared  
transportation was slowed and  dead. The Coast Guard scheduled  
businesses were closed.  a rescue attempt yesterday for the  
"E . ven with the &my troops, it's  32 persons aboard the tanker itself.  
going to be a long haul," said a  As drifts were cleared away,  
spokesman for the governor of  worries about the cost of the snow ­ 
Rhode Island.  in terms of lost business, damage  
The electricity in parts of Boston  and cleanup efforts mounted.  
failed shorty before noon, hours  There were no overall estimates,  
after the end of an other storm- but the total was expected to bed in  
caused outage which left more than  the tens of millions.  
one-third of the 220,000 Boston  Larry D. Worth, public works  
Edison Co. customers in Boston  director of Paterson, N.J., summed  
without power for t.JP to 23 hours.  up the concern over snow removal  
How many people were affected by  bills. "We budgeted about  
Wednesday's trouble was not­ $100,000 and then asked for anoth­ 
known immediately·  er $80,000 after the first storm,'' he  
Throughout the Northeast, travel  said. "I estimate after this one,  
was still difficult and sometimes  we'll need another $150,000. I  
hazardous. There were scattered  expect it will cost two or three tax  
bans on non-essential driving-with  points before we're done."  
threats of tickets and arrests for  Army crews moved into Connec­ 
violators. Nontheless, many work­ ticut, Massachusetts and Rhode  
ers struggled back to jobs they had  Island, which were declared federal  
abandoned during the height of the  emergency areas by President  
blizzard Monday afternoon. Shop- Carter. An Air force spokesman in  
pets searched stores for supplies of  New york said more than 6 million  
milk, bread and other staples. And  pounds of snow removal equipment  
homeowners shoveled. And shov­ and 1,000 troops would be airlifted  
eled.  into the area, mainly from Texas.  
While the East got a respite from  Arrival times, he said, depended  
bad weather, the West Coast was  on airport runway conditions _ at  
battered again by heavy rains.  both ends. Icing conditions in  
Another wave of Pacific storms  Texas delayed the departure of one  
struck Northern California early  contingent of soldiers headed for  
yesterday and brought some flood  Connecticut.  
warnings.  Most major roads in the region  
The rain was moving south, and  began to reopen Wednesday morn- 
there was a 70 percent chance of  ings, but there were still severe  
showers in Southern California dur­ problems with drifts. Some 2,500  
ing the night. Officials said  stranded vehicles, including 500  
mudslides had been cleared from  trucks, clogged and eight-mile  
the Pacific Coast Highway by 3  stretch of Route 12 near Canton,  
a.m., but warned that the road  Mass. the state Department of  
would be closed if it started to rain  Public Works sent 12 wreckers and  
again.  12 snow removers to the rescue  
In eastern Colorado, 1 ,200 ranch  yesterday morning and officials  
families were without electricity  warned people not to try to look for  
after freezing rain on power lines  cars themselves. "No one will be  
dragged down poles. Authorities  allowed on Route 128," said Public  
said it would be at least a day  Works Commissioner John J. Car- 
before power was restored.  rol. "Do not attempt to recover  
The death toll from the storm in  vehicles."  
the East, which began· Sunday  
night, 17 days after an earlier  A s~a~ewi~e ban on ~on-emer~en­ 
blizzard, was about SO, including  cy dnvmg 10 Connecticut was hfted  

by Gov. EJla Grasso at noon. She 
said cities and towns could put 
their own bans into effect, how­
ever and about half a dozen did. 
The statewide ban resulted in 
tickets for motorists in Bridgeport 
alone yesterday morning. 
All businesses in Massachusetts 
were closed on order of the 
governor. Logan International 
Airport also remained closed to 
regular traffic. In the New York 
metropolitan area, Newark, Ken­
nedy and La Guardia airports all 
reopened by noon, but service was
far from normal. Commuter rail 
and bus lines operated reduced 
schedules during the morning rush 
hour and promised improvement in 
the evening. 
The snow belt ranged from Mary­
land and Delaware, up the coast to 
New Hampshire and Vermont. 
Many •coastal areas also were 
flooded by record high tides. The 
impact of the storm varied widely, 
however. 'Most of the serious 
problems were over in Maryland 
and Delawareby yesterday although 
many schools were closed. 
"It's quieting down, stabilizing and now it's mostly a matter of digging out."said a Civil Defnese spokesman in Harrisburg, Pa. Traffic was reportedly moving ­albeit slowly along major roads in Pennsylvania. 
In New Jersey, Wednesday­brought the resumption of mail delivery and for most of the state it was the first postalservice since Saturday. Only a few areas reported deliveries on Monday and there was no service Tuesday. "This w"'s a first," said one postmaster. "We've never shut off deliveries before two days in a row." 
New York City's Schools Chancel­lor Irving Anker announced that public schools closed Monday, Tuesday and yesterday would re­open today. Conrail, which serves suburbs north of the city, said in early afternoon that it was resum­ing normal schedules, but it warn­ed that there might be equipment schedules and delays. 
In Rhode Island, which was digging out from its worst snow­storm in a century, the sun appeared for the first time all week. 
Thousands of people however, remained stranded at shelters, schools and almost all businesses were closed and travel by car remained impossible because few roads were plowed.
..................................................
·-.
!Send your sweetie i 

!  a Valentine Classified i  
t: Joeadline:  ,----------------~-----------~ i:  
::  Friday, Feb. 10  •  
IRates:  :  
i Wonls  
1·10  $1.00  
1f.15  ,1.3~  
16·20  ,1.65  
BRING YOUR AD UP  *Observer  
TO THE OBSERVER.  3rd floor LaFortune  
USE THIS CONVENIENT  10 a.m.  -5 p.m. 
COUPON  11 a.m. -5 p.m.  
.,~  ,-·-.:..··.:·  



Thursday, February 9, 1978 the observer 

• Fr. Joseph Kennedy spoke last night at American Scene on "The role of women in Northwest India." He humourously talked about politics, morals, family life, and religions and social customs. [photo by Beth Cutter] 
NOTRE DAME-SAINT MARY'S THEATRE 'OUR SECOND SCENE' AUDmONS 
Needed: Actors, technicians, crew members, 
stage managers, etc. for our alternative 
season of plays. 

A MAN FOR ALL SEASONS by Robert Bolt Feb. 13 & 14--7 p.m.--Rm. 228 Moreau (SMC) 
LES PARENTS TERRIBLES by Jean Codeau 
Feb. 14 & 15--7 p.m.--O'L.aughlin Aud. (lobby) 
THE MADMAN AND THE NUN by S.l. 
Witkiewicz Feb. 18 & 19--11 a.m.--O'L.aughlin Aud. (lobby) 
Open to all ND-SMC students 
Thursday at The Library 6-10 p1n 
$1.25 pitcher of Miller 
~ 

$1.75 pitcher of LOwenbrau 
Free Doorprizes 
sponsored by Student Union Social Commi-ion 
.1 l 
i 
6 the observer Thursday, February 9,1978 
John Hospers : The Pretense Of Justice 
A Libertarian Philosopher Lectures at Notre Dame 

An individual has the absolute right to exercise sole dominion over his or her own life, liberty, and property so long as he or she also respects the equal right of all others to live their lives by that same principle. Such a statement is neither left-wing nor right-wing, and falls in the middle of the extremes of political philo­sophy. It is very similar to the philosophy of the original Constitution of the United States. It is the oldest testament of 'human rights' and civil liberty. And it is the principle upon which the Libertarian Party claims its foundation. John Hospers, a philosopher, ecnomist and writer from the University of Southern California was the party's first Presidential candidate, in 1972, a year after the Party was founded. He and Ms. Tony Nathan each received an electoral vote in the 1972 election (the year of Watergate) -Ms. Nathan being the first woman in the United States ever to receive an electoral vote. Last week, Mr. Hospers was invited by the philosophy department to Notre Dame, and he spoke around a central theme of "justice" in a series of four lectures. 
Hosper' s style is cool, confident and straight-forward. He is a man with much to say. In 1972, when he was asked what he would do if he were elected President, he replied, simply, "I'll leave you alone." ­not a very common poJitical ploy. In a world of political escalation of complexity and depth, the Libertarian promise was the reduction of government. Hospers is not an anarchist (although, he admits, some Libertarians are) but speaks freely against a government which is not only, in many ways inept and unconsequential, but also an injustice as well as a source of our economic and social failures. The follow­ing is a transcription and summary of his talk on "Justice and Government", last Thursday, February 2. 
The Condition and Nature of the State 
In his book, The State, published just before World War II in Germany, Oppen­heimer states that there are two methods of obtaining what one needs and wants. The first is production and exchange'; to produce something, take the surplus, and exchange it for another person's surplus. This method of survival is called the economic means. There is also a second means; not to produce anything at all, the things that other people need and want, but simply to take by means of force -the method of plunder. This he called the political means. Not everyone can use the second means. You can't seize what other people have not already produced. But some people can do it. Some people do it, siphoning off other people's labors for themselves. 
In the end, of course, the supply is destroyed if the means is used too extensively, so the second method adds nothing to the totality of production, but cnly detracts from it. The systematic plunder of the goods someone has pro­duced greatly reduces the motivation for producing any more. The State, according to Oppenheimer, is the organization of the political means. That is, the systematic use :>f the predatory process over a given territory. The State provides a legal, llrderly, and systematic channel for the seizure of the fruits of other people's labors. And, through the use of force, it renders a parasitic class in society. 
The classic paradigm of this is the conquering tribe who realizes that the time span of plunder would be longer and more secure and the situation more pleasant if the conquered tribe were allowed to live and produce with the conquering living among them, as rulers extracting an annual tribute. But, as the old philosophi­cal saw goes, "Origin does not determine vaJidity." Even if the state was conceived and born in sin, that does not mean it is necessarily in that condition now. 
It is important for the state to find a scapegoat, that is lest its own tactics and ineptness and waste become known and publicized, it has to find a class of people on which to blame the troubles it im_p05es ; onthe population, and "educate" them into thinking these other people are the real willains;, such as the Nazi's convinced the German people the Jews were the source of Germany's troubles in 1933. Such a group is never hard to find. Today it is anyone who has an idea or an invention and finds a market for it and attains wealth independent of the state. Typically, it is anyone who wants to be independent of the state. Such a person is set up for being plundered. This is any person who is a self-made man, especially anyone who sees through the state's pretenses and tries to tell other people of what the state is really about. 
The state has its easiest time with the self-made man who has become well off, because here he can appeal to the twin characteristics of envy and acquistiveness. People who have not made it in open competition with others tend to envy those who have and the state plays upon this envy. ''Take it away from them,'' is their battle cry. And people go along with it. This is, according to Oppenheimer, typi­cally the way a democracy funtions and eventually, also the way it meets its end ­impoverishing the nation, turning it into a dictatorship. "Envy is the principle thing appealed to,'' he says. 

The Condition of theChilde, staff officer, "We don't have any 

State in America 
According to a financial statement of the United States, as reported by the National Taxpayers Union in Dollars and Sense, the total amount of the debt of the government is $151,600 per person. In 1900 the United States had 76 milion people. The total expenditure of the government was $525 million, which is about $6.90 per person. In 1976 the Federal Government spent $375 billion, which is about $1850 per person. It took 60 years from 1789 to 1848 for the U.S. Government to spend $1 billion. Today it spends that much in less than two-thirds of one day. 
Perhaps the biggest ripoff is Social 
Security. According to Irwin Shiff: 
•'In the annual Social Security report the SS Administration was listed as having almost six trillion dollars in assets. When I first saw this figure, I didn't know what it could be. I called the actuarial department of the administration and the man there could not answer. I finaJiy asked the head man of the nature of the six trillion dollars in assets alledgedly owned by the systme. He said, 'These are not assets in the usual sense.' 'But the report says assets,' I said. 
'What kind are they?' He was evasive saying they were actuarial calculations developed only to comply with the law and not meaningful figures in the strict sense. When I finally extracted the truth it turned out the figures represented the potential Social Security receipts calculated to the year 204 7." 
It's strange bookkeeping to list potential receipts on the balance sheet as current assets. 
In 1969 the cat came out of the bag when the Secretary of Commerce, Maurice Stans, was questioned by a Congressional Committee of the Social Securit"J fund. "We have long since abandoned the idea that Roosevelt originally had when it was set up," he said. "Today each year's collections are paid out in benefits to beneficiearies the next year.'' He was then asked if the assets are in any danger. "Oh no, it is just that future payments rest on the current credit of the United States and its taxing powers." It does not rest on a trust fund when you and I become eligible. In other words the money is gone, all been spent. Any benefits in the future will come from the power to tax. Originally the maximum tax was 3 percent or $180. No" it exceeds $1650 per year. At the curren\ rate, people who are now 25, will find their tax at the age of 60 to be $13,000. What will happen when the fund is empty and people demand their money? 

What the Money Is Spent~~Upon 
On record, the government has spent 
money on the following items: 
$1 million to Harvard to discover how 
water extinguishes fire. 

$1 million to examine the impact of rural 
road construction in Poland. 
$500,000 to teach mothers how to play 
with their children. 

$500,000 to study the frisbee. 
$500,000 for a potato-chip factory in 
Morocco, which doesn't grow any potatoes. 
$1 million to the Air Force to purchase 
one tent which blew away after two hours. 
$500,000 to Los Angeles for a Traveler's 
Aid for migrants lost on the freeways. 
Other government allotments include: 
Studies ur wuo boars in Pakistan, a 
dictionary of witchcraft, how children fall 
off tricycles, a study of lizards in Yugo­
slavia. The government still spends 
$30,000 to protect Americans from World 
War II Nazis. According to Lt. John 
formal sessions any more. The commission 
meets socially, after hours.'' 
The government spends $60,000 per 
minute on national defense. Then there's 
the little item of $300 billion in foreign aid, 
which has enabled the United States to 
finance and support both sides of a dozen 
wars. And, maybe the biggest ripoff, the 
total cost of Federal Welfare projects, not 
including state and local ones, was for last 
year $290 billion -that is $1400 for every 
individual in the United States. 
According to Irving Christel: 
''Between 1960 and 1970 the total 
National expenditure on welfare increased 
from SO billion to 171 billion. According to 
the U.S. Census Bureau, there areabout25 
million poor in the United States. If we 
take these 25 million people and divide into 
the increase $121 million, and if we had 
simply taken that money and given it 
directly to poor people, we would have 
given to each of them, not each family, an 
annual stipend of $4800. Which means for 
an average family of four, an income of 
$19,200. We could have made every poor 
person relatively rich. What happened to 
the money? It went to social workers, 
planners, counselors, engineers, and 
urban renewal experts and the assistant 
administrators to the Administative Assis­
tants." 

One wonders to what end was it all 
spent. 

Congress created and funded a few years 
ago the Job Corps, under the EEO. It 
sounded like a good thing -get delinquent 
teenagers off the streets and pay them to 
learn a trade. But so great was the waste, 
and so abysmal the ignorance of the 
planners, and so lax the whole system, that 
the cost of this system to the taxpayer was 
a tittle more than $20,000 per year per 
trainee. In some sectors it was more than 
double this figure. And almost none of the 
so-called graduates (and not many fin­
ished) could fulfill the minimal require­
ments of the trade for which they had been 
trained. 

One woman wrote the government, 
"How can I possibly pay taxes to support 
people on theJob Corps at $20,000 per year 
when my total family income is $5,000 per 
year and we have three children? We had 
hoped we would be able to send them 
through college. Instead of that you are 
passing a program that says I am to pay 
taxes to support one person at $20,000 a 
year." 

This, of course, was done in the name of 
social justice. 

' ~-... -· --... '_.. ........,... -~ ....... .._,.......,__.._.. 
Why So Much Waste 
When you spend money that you, yourself, have earned, you are likely to exercise with some care how you are going to spend it, knowing it would take you a lot of work to replace what you spent. If you do spend it foolishly, the consequences are in your own hand. When the government takes from you and spends what you might have otherwise spent as you saw fit, then these restraints are abandoned. One almost never spends other people's money as carefully as one's own money. 
In a private organization, if you've got too many men in the front office, the overhead gets too great and you have to cut down expenditures to meet the competi­tion. In government it doesn't work that way. You prove the importance of your department not by trimming expenses or operating efficiently, but by adding to your employees whether you rieed them or not, therefore creating busywork to create the impression that many significant things are getting done. 
It is not by accident that the government is boundlessly wasteful. Before the Civil War, when the Federal Government adhered to the Constitution pretty closely, and took on only such functions as were delegated to it, the whole income of the government came from excises and tariffs. Then came the Federal Income tax in 1913, which had previously been declared uncon­stitutional. By the year 1929, the tax collector took one dollar out of every ten earned. Today, it is one out of every three (average of all income levels). You might put it this way: the Federal Government takes (equal to) the entire income of every American living west of the Mississippi River. There are more than 150 taxes on every loaf of bread. There are over one hundred taxes on every egg, in every phase of production, transportation, distribution, and sales. All in all, about one-half of every dollar earned in the United States isd taken up by governments -federal, state and local. 
As taxes mount, more businesses, especially small ones, go down the tubes. When the government demands and gets larger and larger shares of everyone's income, we all get poorer. The corner shopkeeper, already just breaking even because of governments taxes, cannot continue his business anymore and is forced to close and dismiss his employees. And the same goes for the spare parts factory down the street, and the used car garage and the restaurant just around the corner. 
The champions of social justice never seem to think of these people. 
The Campaign 

Promises 
of John Hospers 
The government promises more and more to the people. It can only raise taxes to a certain level before the people will revolt. But it still needs to "fulfill" its promises to the people. Thus it either borrows the money, creating a greater national debt (the interest of which is the third largest item on the national budget), or prints money without economic support. creating dangerous levels of inflation, the most tempting and easiest step of the government. 
Goverment regulations have inhibitied American oil companies from using domes­tic oil, maintaining dependency on foreign oil and keeping the prices of oil to the consumer bight. 
Whenever a politician promises you anything, it is obviously not going to come out of his pocket. Ifhe puts it into your left pocket he'll take it out of your right pocket, minus a 40 percent handling fee. In other words, whenever there are promised beneficiearies of government, there are bound to be victims. All I can promise you is that you will not be a victim. 

Thursday, February 9, 1978 the Obseryer 
Unveiling the Secrets of Village Society 
.., 


.....
·­
·­
·­
·­......
·­
·­......
·­.....
·­
·­
·­
• I . 
·--­

Essat~ And Photos By Leo C. Hansen 
There the form stood, motionless as the hill beneath. Above the plain rose the hill, above the hill, rose the barrow, and above the barrow rose the figure. Above the figure was nothing that could be mapped elsewhere on a celestial globe. Such a perfect, delicate and necessary finish did the figure give to the dark pile of hills that it seemed to be the only obvious justifica­tion of their outline. Without it, there was the dome without the lantern; with it the architectural demands of the mass were satisfied. The scene was strangely homogeneous. The form was so much like an organic part of the entire motionless structure that to see it move would have impressed the mind as a strange pheno­menon. 
--The Return of the Native, Thomas Hardy 
At one particular point in time, there must have been a spontaneous diffusion of man, who had previously been content within the simplicity of the village com­munity. There were those who were quite eager to abandon the serenity of the village for the complexity and diversity of the city. These dissenters formed urban society: man is free from his given landscape, he must make his own. 
. "iri·y~-... ;;·_.,.·. " ' ·'.:...:ll

-?-· 
~e:w::_;;,;·,,-.-_~ 

~....... :. ---~... -'-· ~~......,:t<-:;,f'a.-'~ 
. ~;,->itil~·:.:_J;:~e;-"'+:.-g~---··,. v;_ 
. 
'H l 

Thus, imitating and reflecting the tech­course, we consider the aesthetics of vast 
nology of nature, he created vast communi­networks of expressways and vast vacant ties, whose concentric and orthogonal areas of asphalt used for parking lots. designs became symbols of the new Even the majority of our buildings are domain of man -the urban environment. grotesque and not very stimulating. In the cities, technology and production Finally, according to Abraham Maslow, 
prospered, and man did too, most of them, there is the need for self-actualization, the at times. In the urban environment, he highest level of achievement for man, and enslaved himself inside a vast political and the least likely to be satisfied in the city,economic system, which eventually grew unless you happen to be the owner of the proportionally so large and complex, that TransAmerican pyramid, for example, in he lost sight of the reasons-he formed San Francisco. That sense of self-satisfac­communities with other men to begin with. tion may be dubious, but could be real for 
Man built communities to be free from some people. hunger and thirst and to give him shelter. But, despite increasing levels of urbani­But people stiJI starve in the big cities, zation, there still exists the second class of water is at times not readily accessible people -those whose descendants long ago during periods of low water level, and did not migrate to the cities, and those who 
many times the shelter the city provides is remain in rural settlements, which com­inadequate, or just not enough for every­prise 99 percent of all human settlements, one. but less than one half of the world Man built communities to ease his population. communication with other men. But These communities, though lacking in neighborhood structure has deteriorated, the egocentric cultural achievements of and more people are becoming strangers to man, . nonetheless represent the most each other, while friends usually live some beautiful and most romantic places in the 
distance away. Other basic needs of man, world. In the village, man has truly whkh he sought to satisfy in the city, were learned not to compete with the natural self-esteem and cognition. But psycholo­landscape, which he inherited from crea­gists tell us that our urban environments tion. The villager experiences direct are basically depressing, and offer little association with nature, whose boundaries stimuli to enrich our minds and our culture. become distinct yet contiguous with the Our universal stimulus is typically the flow of the community. The villager has television which can be viewed by the learned the importance of a pleasing individual in the midst of an edificial environment, soothing to the senses and oblivion. Communities were built to satisfy suitable to the activities of man. He has man's basic need for aesthetic, but our learned the importance of proximity, and cities are far from prettv. Unless, of the dynamics of urban drama. Village 
....... 
rr ~~ ...-.. 
,_
:::3"l
-
~ 
..
,_
~­
tA 
f» 
:: 
-..8 
<C 
,_ 
~ 
,_ 
s:: 
,0
0: 
...... 
0

-
0 
:;)
,_ 
...... 
tA 
~ 
.:f» 

communities are rich and full of texture. 
The absence of the necessities of an egocentric culture (time, artificial realms and sensory stimuli, and complex social and political structures) are missed along with technological and cultural achieve­ments of the urban mileau. It is the city which creates artistic tension, and provides the source of discovery. In the village the tension is resolved. 
The Spanish and Italian hilltown is a perfect, delicate and necessary finish to the hills of the Mediterranean landscape. Their beauty and excitement is both their simplicity and complexity. Their forms are natural; their secrets unfold like and unveiling mystery; their characters are rich with the secrets of life. Here there is no room for commercialism, no overpowering technology, none of the technological creations of urban man which holds him in a captive stare. 
When the lights went out in New York last summer, a frightening thing hap­pened. The citizens were unfamiliar to their own world. According to the New Yorker: 
Several people on the park's pathways carried flashlights in their hands or in their back pockets. They seemed unwilling to let go of their sources of illumination that had carried them through the night. We recalled the friend who had momentarily found himself unconsciously thinking that the power failure had knocked out the sun. It seemed that New Yorkers everywhere were having a hard time sorting out which things in their lives were made by man and which were made by God. 

the observer Thursday, February 9, 1978
8 







Canal battle begins on Capitol Hill 
W ASBINGTON [AP[ -The Senate opened debate yesterday on the future of the Panama Canal with an appeal lly supporters for approval of what may be the most politically charged issue of the year on Capitol Hill. 
Treaty backers and opponents still were looking for decisive votes as the expected month or more of floor speeches and parliamentary maneuvering began. Neither side currently has the votes to swing the outcome their way. 
Keynoting the debate was Sen. John Sparkman (D-Ala.), chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, who urged approval of the agreement after the insertion of certain leadership-backed amend­ments clarifying future U.S. de­fense rights and canal access roles. 
Sparkman cautioned, however, that ''the Senate would be making a serious mistake if it allowed itself to get bogged down in useless debate on matters not directly related to the real purpose of the 

Summer work in Europe available 
. I
Amencan-European Student Service offers Americ~m students the chance to find sur.1mer employ­ment in Europe. Functioning as a non-profit organization, A.E. S.­Service affords students employ­ment in Germany, Scandinavia, England, Austria, Switzerland, France, Italy and Spain. Job fields include forestry, child care, farm-
Scottsdale Mall Telephone 291-4583. 
-

I· 
A spray of sparkling hearts in a colorful bouquet. Your FrO Aorist can send one almost anywhere by wire, the ITO way. Order early. (Most FrO Rorists accept major credit cards. ) 
treaties." 
It will take a two-thirds vote in the Senate to pass the two treaties, one of which would gradually turn control of the canal over to Panama during a 22-year period and an­other which would guarantee the neutrality of the canal and U.S. access and defense rights to the waterway after Panama assumes full control in the year 2000. 
Sparkman is serving as "nomin­al" floor leader for the debate but will share the chore with other 
treaty proponents. The opposition also will split up the task with Sen. Robert Griffn (R-Mich.) serving as the nominal quarterback. 
The opponents, who according to most polls are about three votes short of the 34 needed to block ratification, sought to bolster their position by asking Vice President Walter F. Mondale, called in to preside, for ruling on a list of procedural questions. 
Sen. James Allen (D-Ala.), a 
ing, hotel and construction work. and some other more qualified jobs requiring more specialized train­ing. 
For further information and ap­plication forms, write American­European Student Service, W eile 133, Box 70, Fl 9493 Mauren, Leichtenstein (Europe). 
Mishawaka Avenue at 30th Telephone 288-8488 
John Travolta in 

treaty foe who is widely regarded as a wizard in parliamentary strat­egy, won a ruling that mambers could filibuster oh each of the two treaties that form the canal agree­ment, but was rebuffed in seeking to have them voted on article by article. Allen, who has said he does not intend to filibuster the treaties but wants them "voted up or down," promised that the debate would not be tied up with delaying tactics. But he said there are " literally dozens" of substan-

Texas cops convicted 
HOUSTON [AP]~ Three former Houston policemen were convicted in federal court yesterday of violat­ing the civil rights of a Mexican -American laborer who drowned in a bayou while he was their pri­soner. 
They could be sentenced to life in prison. Two of the defendants were convicted of a misdemeanor in state court in connection with the death and were given one year probation. 
The three were found guilty of two counts, one a felony, but innocent of actually pushing the prisoner into the water. One defense lawyer said his client would appeal. 
The officers were accused of 
Town & Country Shopping Center Telephone 2 59-9090 
9th Week! 

HENRY WINKLER 
• 
lS 
tive amendments that must be considered. 
Senate leaders and the Carter administration oppose those amendments on grounds they could cripple the treaties by forcing them to be renegotiated or submitted to another national referendum in Panama. 
Allen also asked whether the Spanish as well as English texts of the proposals were before the Senate, observing dryly hat "we've had some trouble with the English 
slapping and kicking Joe Campos Torres, who had been arrested in a barroom distirbance and taken to an isolated area near police head­quarters, before he went off a bluff 16 feet into the bayou. 
The jury found them innocent of pushing Campos Torres off the wall Terry W. Denson, the policemen who the prosecution alleged did the pushing, had said the prisoner either fell or jumped. 
However it happened, Campos Torres -a 23 year old Mexican­American laborer and self styled karate expert drowned in Buffalo Bayou that night of May S, 1977. His body was found three days later, entangled in trash and weeds in the dirty, sluggish stream which 


HEARTS &FLOWERS 


Send Your Valentine . The FfD LoveBundle®Bouquet. 
Those FfD Florists Really Get Around. 
•As an independent businessman, each 
FrO Member Florist sets his own prices. (:)1971 Florllts' "ff---ood Ddwry 



Thursday, 
MONTGOMERY, A WORLD LEADER IN ELEVATORS AND ESCALATORS, WILL CONDUCT INTERVIEWS ON THIS CAMPUS 

February 16, 1978 
CAREER POSITIONS IN VERTICAL TRANSPORTATION SALES/MANAGEMENT 
WILL BE DISCUSSED WITH DEGREE CANDIDAtES IN BUSINESS AND ENGINEERING 
FOR MORE INFORMATION ABOUT MONTGOMERY AND OUR UPCOMING VISIT TO YOUR CAMPUS, CONTACT YOUR PLACEMENT OFFICE. 
montgomery mov" l'eOD#e 








montiiOiiiiii 

ltoltgomery Ellv:rtor Company, lloline, Illinois 61265 Mollfl~~t~~e~y Elevator Co., limited, Toroato, Olrtario M983S5/ Offices iA pnocipal cities of North America 

wording and I wonder who will decide whether Mr. Torrijos the Panamanian leader agrees with our interpretation.'' 
Mondale replied that through long established precedent, "only the English texts of treaties are before the Senate." Allen said that when debate begins in earnest after the 10-day Lincoln Day re­cess, he is considering a move to have the Senate reverse the order in which it is considering the two treaties. 
moves thorugh a section of down­
town Houston. 

Trial testimony showed six offi­
cers took Campos Torres to the jail 
that night, but officials refused to 
admit him, saying he would be 
taken to a hospital because he was 
cut and bruised. The arresting 
officers said the prisoner had 
resisted them. 

Denson had a number of ci­
tations on his record for good 
performance during five years on 
the force. The others convicted 
were Stephen Orlando, 22, whose 
father and two brothers are Hous­
ton policemen, and Joseph Janish, 
22. 

Two prosecution witnesses at the 
trial were Carless Elliott and Glenn 
Brinkmeyer, who were also police­
men at the time. It was Elliott who 
disclosed the events of that night, 
and he was never charged. 
Brinkmeyer pleaded fuilty to a civil 
rights misdemeanor charge and 
was sentencd to one year in jail and 
a $1,000 fine. The federal trail of 
Louis Kinney, the sixth officer 
involved in the arrest, was severed 
from the others after he testified 
for the prosecution in the state 
trial. 

The U.S. District Court jury. 
seven men and five women. deli­
berated for seven hours over a 
two-day period before bringing in 
the verdict. 

When it did, the officers stood 
erect and showed no emotion. 
Then, as he turned and walked 
from the courtroom, Denson began 
to sob. 

Mrs. Joe Torres, mother of the 
dead man, said ''The verdict was 
better than just letting them go. It 
won't bring my son back, but 
maybe it will mean that some other 
son won't be hurt." 

The felony count on which the 
officers were convicted charged 
conspiring to injureand intimidate 
Campos Torres and denying him 
his constitutional rights, an act that 
eventually led to his death. 
The: other count, a misdemeanor 
punishable by one year in prison 
and a $1,000 fine, charged them 
with depriving Campos Torres of 
his right by striking and assaulting 
him. 

Seating for dinner 
arranged today 
Seating for the Presidential Din­ner during Junior Parent's Week­end can be arranged by all juniors today and tomorrow from 12:15 to 
4:30 p.m. Seating is tentatively planned for groups of twelve. Parties not making such arrange­ments will be seated at random. 
Students who would like to attend any of the events, but whose parents are not coming may make arrangements by calling Mary at 7960 or Rhonda at 7975. 
The committee is in the process of sending confirmations to all parents who · have made hotel reservations. All confirmations will be handled directly by the hotels. Questions concerning hotels should be directed to Bruce at 8992. 
H there are any other questions, call John Simari, 8595 . 

.l' ,_._... _•./
.• ,._.._ .,,/ ~. r,; J. -"0.: . ..~·, ...• 
·' -~---·-~ -~ ....·-. -.....,J_• .... • ttf!IIJI,...J·:t ~.,.a.. ~~-•• _ fl. Jl •• ~-. J •. ' ~ _ . ., ---· 

Thttrsday, February 9, 1978 the observer 

Missing ·mayor found dead 
VINCENNES* Ind. [AP]· Sixteen name Turner and both had expired tween 1962 and the time he began years ago, Raymond Turner dis­in the late 1960's. working as a salesman, using the appeared from Battle Creek; Mich. ''An old girlfriend of his flew name Donald Davis, for the Wade a city he once served as mayor. down here from Battle Creek, H. Batten Co. near Evansville, This week, Turner was found dead identified the body and then left," selling such things as book mat­in a Vincennes hospital. Chanley said, adding that the ches. The 61 year old Turner had been woman's name also had been found The woman who identified Tur­admitted to the hospital on Jan. 29 among Turner's belongings. ner's body told police she hadn't after suffering a massive stroke. Turner left Michigan in 1962 heard from him in four years. He died Monday. after a divorce and an unsuccessful Turner, a native of Pough­
keepsie, N.Y., attended Drew Uni­Turner had been using the name bid for the Democratic nomination 
Donald Davis, but Vincennes for lieutenant governor. versity in New Jersey and Temple Police Maj. Les ··chanley said Chanley said a preliminary in­University in Philadelphia but did not graduate.
officers comfirmed his identity vestigation showed that Turner had

• He worked as an actor and a
after finding a telephone credit been in the southwest Indiana are radio producer in Philadelphiacard and a driver's license among for at least two years, but there was 

his belongings. Both carried the no indication where he be-before World War II during which
was 

h was an officer in the Army Air Corp. After the war, he worked for
More nuclear debris found 

radio stations in New York State and Vermont before joining radio EDMONTON, Alberta The 954
[AP] -. Cosmos satellite station WBCK in Battle Creek as 
Radioactive debris from a Soviet dropped out of orbit and entered program director in 1955. 
nuclear powered satellite has been the atmosphere over Canada on He was elected mayor of Battle located at five more sites int eh Jan. 24: Creek four years later. In 1960, he Northwest Territories, an Atomic In Ottawa, the government took lost an election for state se)lator
Energy Control Board official said its first step toward possible and decided not to seek another 

yesterday. demands for compensation from term as mayor. He later ran for the 

Two of the new sites are on the the Soviet Union by officially nomination for lieutenant gover­Hoarfrost River north of the east­informing the Russians that Can­nor. ern end of Great Slave Lake. The ada believes it has found parts of No one has claimed Turner's objects are buried in snow and have teh satellite. ' body, at southwestern
now a not been visually identified, said Foreign Secretry Don Jamieson Indiana funeral home. No relatives
err . 

Dr. Roger Eaton. refused to say whether Canada will have been located. He had no 
Rough terrain has prevented seek the more than million the children.
Winners of the Sculpture Contest: $150 goes to Keenan and Carroll; $75 to Howard and Regina; and a keg of beer to 

ground parties from reaching the search has cost so far. "We just wish someone would Morrissey and Breen-phillips. Howard's memorial to Cupid is 
sites, a military official said. come forward and claim the body," pictured above [photo by Beth Cutter] 
The other three pieces of debris Berry to appear said Knox County Coroner P.W. are located 25 miles northeast of Mischler. "Nobody needs to worry
0 0 0 Cl 0 0 0 0 0 0 

Reliance, about 105 miles east of about paying for the arrangements.
Yellowknife on the Great Slave 

at Mardi Gras The county will do that." "I don't Lake.. know yet when we'll-bury the
WATS new at Ball State? Officials said none of the objects body," said George Garnder,
Cartoonist Jim Berry will appear ow­is suspected of being part of the at Mardi Gras tonight at 8 p.m. to ner of Gardner's Funeral Home. core no
satellite's power and meet students and draw for them. "We'll wait as long as we can for
Perhaps a telephone line 
problems are expected in recover­Berry is the creator of the cartoon someone to claim it. It's a peculiar
ing them from beneath 18 inches of strip "Berry's World"_ situation, to say the least." hard snow. 
[NOCR] -The student govern-Brown University where a number Applications 


THE QUICKIE RIDES AGAIN!
ment of Ball State University is of students will be facing big trying to get a Wide Area Tele-December telephone bills because for SU positionsphone Service (WATS) line for the student body there was given students there. The WATS line inadvertent access to the univer­now availablff THIS FRIDAY NIGHT allows users to make long-distance sity's WATS line. 
/
Applications for the positions of 

calls at a set monthly rate. New phone equipment was 
Student Union Director and Comp­

...-The hang-up, according to stu-installed at the university this troller will be available beginning STOPS: -FORUM I & II CINEMA,dent association vice-president Jim summer, and the computer pro­.
Monday, Feb. 13 in the Student

Mendenhall, is ''with our friends at grams which dictate what lines are 
Union offices on the second floor of

AT&T (American Telephone and able to use the service were wrong, 
,­
they LaFortune Student Center. 

KUBIAK'S, SHULA 'S, & HEIDELBERG
Telegraph)." giving Brown students, with some 
Student Union Director Tom
Under the plan, students on-2,500 phones available to them, the 
,
Gryp is asking that all completed 

campus would have their phones ability to call on the university's applications be submitted 
LEAVES EVERY HALF HOUR FROM
byconnected to the line through the line. Because they were new to the Friday, Feb. 17.

university's switchboard. Those university and the phone system, students off-campus would be able freshmen were the ones most CILA members 
THE ND CIRCLE & ST. MARY'S 
to dial an access number to connect affected by the error, said New 
should pick up their

them with the line. England Telephone spokesperson In a recent survey of Ball State William Kelley. forms for the CILA retreat, to be 
STARTING AT 7:SO pm



l...(

students, 85 percent said they Kelley said that it was to the held Feb. 17-19, in the Campus 
.......

would be willing to pay a set credit of the Brown students that Ministry Office or in the Office of amount for the services, assessed they were the ones to come to the Student Affairs. All forms should when fees are paid at the beginning phone company and report the be returned by Tuesday, Feb. 14. of the quarter. Fifty-five percent mistake. Students came to the Forms will also be available in said they would be willing to pay company and said they weren't the St. Mary's Campus Ministry between $6 and $15 for the service, being billed for calls they made. Office. 
and 17 percent said they would payr---------------------------1 
more. Only 13 percent said theyl 1 weren't ~illing to pay anything for I A t 1. J • J I 
:h"~·:~~~.r:.~~~~mr:~"~:~!:~;l t en 10n un10rs. 1 
Commission (FCC) to buy the idea. 1 I 
A ~imilar plan a~ the University of. s· n up 'or pre'erred seating I 
1
1

Anzona met with an FCC veto I Ig 11 1 because the student governmentI I 
wanted a WATS line and thenl 
h J p w k dI

pl~nnedtocharge.studentsforeach at t e un·10r arentS ee en 1 
mmute they used 1t. The FCC held I that this constituted re-selling the I p ·d t o· I 
line and forbade the ~tudent 1 reSI en S Inner. I 
government from doing it. Men-1 I denhall said he hopes to get around 1 I 
this by claiming that because the 1 Thurs., Feb g 1""·.15---4·.30pm.
students will be plugged into the I ./, 1 university's line, and because 1 everyone wi'l be charged for it I 4 30 
throughmandatoryfees,thisisnotl fri febiO 12:15---: pm. II 
re-selling the line. There is some I •' hope that this loiic will be accepted 1 I 
Mendenhall said, because there I I th I bb . of La Fortune I 
were some dissenti.ng opionions I n e 0 Y • 1 fro_m so~e FCC members on the I I Arizona 1ssue. Th h ·{ •1 t k I 
1t is estimated that operating the I OSe W0 aI 0 rna e I 

program would cost $200,000 a I 
year, with an additional initial 1 prel·lm.lnary arrangementS I
outlay for the equipment to start 1 I the line. However, Mendenhall 1 I said that the university's phone I d 1 
equipment needs updating, so by I W.lll be seated ran Om1y I
"working in concert with them we • 1 could defray some of the costs." ll I 
A WATS line is also the issue at ------------------------' 




1o the observer Thursdav. February 9, 1978 






. .. 

Thursdav. February 9, 1978 the observer 11 
SOAP counsels alcoholics 



PoliCy protects· speaker's rights 
on a peer-oriented basis 
hall. This team will be trained and
by Laurie lee Foss 

[NOCRl. ..... The lJniv.~~ity of invited speakerfrOm.appearing out lines wh~rttheir sole purpose is to 
Students on Alcohol Problems, abusers and approach them before 
ichigan bas adopted . a fre~ of ~r of a violent reaction. prevent the person from speaking. SOAP, is a peer-oriented organiza-administrative action becomes peech policy aimed at -insuring The policy was ·drawn up as a Normal audien~ reactions. such as tion designed to meet the needs necessary. According to Senior at the rights of the speaker~ any reaction .to disruptions during a ntaans ..and ~oans, are not out­and interests of students who have Art Hoesterey, a SOAP partici­tential protestors, fDd the audi-1975. visit to campus by Israeli ~wed; b•lt if there appears.-:to be a drinking problem. The group pant, "Seeking aid will be easier ncf.Yare observed. . . . . . president Ephraim Kamr•. Also, disruptive behavior forming. the seeks a greater awareness of the when it's someone you know J'he policy~ recently adOptetl by just after the semester started, univerSity representatives at the effects of drinking and of related helping you out." he Michigan ,Board of Regents, Afri(.all groups· requested to see the speech must first put the protestors behavior. With the present system, rec-tates that ~·protestors must not credentials of African speakers•. a on n¢ice. If the disruptiOns 
tors, RA's, faculty or students may · ntel'fere unduly~n .·with ,a .speaker practice forbidden under the new. continuet . the.· guidelines anow the SOAP originated from the AIC. report drinking and related beha­hen he or she is addressing an policy. . · university to. ·''proceed with u.10s1e1 hol Rehabilitation Counseling Cen! vior which has caused a distor­·. i~n~. The utliVer(ty i!il fotbtd.. ' · · · ····· ···· · measures necessary to re·es-tablis 
ter almost two years ago. A bance to themselves or someone in tf -to *~ba.f any .tn¥~!~ $~~er ··.·····pr··.··········~~t!!.ncate···e········th.·e.'.·.·. J)()l_.•a•····.~·-····~. sthta ,Qtder~i:'whiat may include .J?l,tysica.. 
readily available to assess potential 
.......... •. .. et·es.utbid.·.!.t~

number of students had been put the Notre Dame community. If the rif ·. ·· tin •• ot dmoourir e an "''"'~ ...u ... oiati.. ........ renmval Of the totestori/>: · · on disciplinary probation for disor-disturbance is serious, the case is derly conduct which took place sent to Roemer who may then after they had been drinking. direct the student to choose 
St. Mary's hoopsters victorious, 55-48, When Dean of Student, James between working or attending Roemer gave the students the alcohol rehabilitational counseling option to seek rehabilitational as a type of punishment. 
swimmers plagued by flu counseling or perform 20 hours of SOAP does not wish to have its labor, they chose counseling. Their actions viewed as disciplinary, but by Leigh Tunakan St. Mary's held decisive margins ing St. Mary's, Peggy O'Brien and experience led them to join with the rather as a service to Notre Dame. Sports Writer at two different times during the Ellen Crowe, qualified last week­alcohol and drug counselors in an Its members, who are ex-offenders game, but the powerful offensive end to swim in the regionals, which effort to help students before the themselves, share their experi-The St. Mary's basketball team shooting by Cook shattered both will be held March 2-4. O'Brien administration has to step in. ences with those in counseling. added another victory to their leads. As high scorer of the game will swim in the 200 yard breast­
SOAP emphasizes a student to Hoesterey says, ''The toughest seasonal record Tuesday night in a with 22 points, Cook proved to be stroke, while Crowe qualified for student rather than student to thing is to sit down and talk about close battle against St. Francis the key player for St. Francis. both the 100 and 200 yard back­administrator relationship. The it, even to get them to say, 'I have a in the Angela Athletic Facility. A Leading the St. Mary's offense stroke events. Rounding out the organization is staffed by Betty problem,' whether or not it's a 12 point spurt by the Belles midway was forward Kelly with 19 points. team at the invitational were Albert, a specialist for Psychologi-drinking problem.' • through the second half increased Nancy Nowalk and Cullen also Captain Kathy Haggerty and Mary cal Services, Peggy Cronin, an The alchol counselors prefer not the momentum as they maintained finished in double figures with 12 Ryan, both freestylers. 
alcohol and drug abuse counselor  to classify  a  student as  being  an  their lead  to  defeat  St.  Francis,  points each.  
for the Student Health Center, and  alcoholic.  "We present the facts  55-48.  St. Mary's next hosts Vincennes  
several  Notre  Dame  students.  and  let  the  student  decide  for  In the opening  minutes of the  this afternoon at 4:30 p.m. in the  
SOAP's  referal  sources  include  himself how serious  his  problem  second  half,  St.  Francis'  Cook  Angela Athletic Facility.  
students,  friends,  rectors,  RA's,  is," Cronin  notes.  "Passing out,  made two key baskets, giving them  
staff and faculty.  throwing up, forgetting all you've  the edge, 30-29, for the first time  The St. Mary's swimming team  
One of SOAP's major goals is to  done  are  real  problems,"  Hoes- all evening.  St. Mary's immedi­ was among nine teams represented  
allow and encourage open discus­ terey points out.  "It may get a few  ately retaliated  as  Martha  Kelly  at  the  Indiana  University  swim­ 
sion of alcohol use versus  alcohol  laughs, but it's not funny.  This is a  sunk two consecutive jump shots.  ming invitational last weekend in  
abuse.  Cronin states,  "Our pur­ definite problem." SOAP's plan of  The evenly matched shooting con- Bloomington.  Sending only four  
pose is to. help sutdents make the  action includes being available  to  tinued for the next three minutes as  out of 12 swimmers to the meet due  
decision whether they want to drink  other students  as  peers  to share  neither  team  could  build  up  a  to the flu,  St.  Mary's presented  
or not, whether their drinking and  early  identification,  information  substantial lead.  stiff competition,  defeating  such  
the actions they're doing is some- and education.  A time out called by St. Francis  area colleges as DePauw University  
thing they've given thought to or if  "It's important to know you're  with St. Mary's ahead, 37-36 and  and Evansville University.  How­ 
it's  just  a  habit  they've  fallen  not alone,"  Hoestery continues.  14:20 remaining, appeared to  be  ever, the larger University teams  
into."  "Facing  administrative  discipli­ the dividing point in the game.  St.  such  as  Texas Tech and Indiana  
The group urges its members to  nary action is a traumatic experi­ Mary's  exploded,  outscoring  St.  University dominated the meet.  
begin accepting responsibility for  ence."  SOAP intends to educate  Francis 12-4, putting them ahead,  Other teams participating in the  
whatever choice is made.  students of the  consequences  of  49-40.  A  combined  effort  by  invitational  were  Indiana  State,  
SOAP plans to provide an advo­ their behavior and  to  help them  Kathleen Cullen and Kelly enabled  Michigan State, University of Cin­ 
cacy group for each residence hall  seriously  evaluate  their  use  of  them to maintain the lead through­ cinnati, and Southern lllinois.  
composed  of students  from  that  alcohol.  out the remainder of the game.  Two of the four girls represent­ 
-----------------------------­ 

need resumes in a hurry? 

)'' ·' '.·1_:-o,
(A)~~r
~;: 

insty-prints 
the wiz of the printingbiz! 
rag bond 

. 25-8 1/2 X 11 $2.65 203 
N. Mam So Rend 289-697 
I I I ·.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------·
I J 1Need 4GA DePaul tix. Call Margie· SMC 
5336



Classifieds 

I Need Marquette tickets. Will pay your 1 FOR SALE I · ----------­
• I price. Call Russ at an2. 1 1

NOTICES 1 Lost: Maroon ski jacket at Ubrary bar I 1 Eight "Studio Sertes" BASF blank reel to Need 4 GA Marquette tlx. Call Mary ­
1 

Anyone wishing to register to vote In I ~~i ~::~~~~X-mas present. Reward. I 2Marquette tlx. Will pay reasonable sum I reel tapes. These profeslional 1800 foot 1 SMC 4621. 
16

Indiana's May election should contact Mo ------------I of $.~a 11__1 ~---1=~i~~~~~a~~~~actory wrap. Only 1 Halrcuts,Cheap~tyles, trims. SMC 4530 
11

at 4-1-4001 before spring break. Found: Sliver wire-framed glasses out-Need 2 Marquette GA tickets. Call Diane Betsy.
11 1 1

I ed I I I I side ACC before Maryland game. Call I 7883. I Month-old SR-51-11 Texas Instrument I· Need4 GA ti;forMarquette SMC4530
!erest n partie pat ng n a summer 1475. --------------1 calculator. Regular $60, sell $45. 8976 
1 

; 11i&..'1? Talk about It with the Euchar--------------1 1 Need 4 GA tickets to any weekend home 1 John 1 Betsy.-------------ISk ~·~.slonarles. Wednesday and Lost: Round 14k gold medal. Size of a basketball game. Call 4-1-5745. 1 -------'----------1
1

T~ursda~ In the Library concourse. quarter has face of sun with a crack on 1 BIC 981 t tabl 1 3 th ld 1 Bruce: Keep your beard. 
medal. Also a gold Italian horn. lost I ----------------1 Comes wl~~n Shu~e 0~~1EDm0~rt~idge: I Bl--d-.--h--------­Typing done. Reasonable rates. Call Thurs. Jan. 26 morning between Fisher & Need ride to Pittsburgh area after 1 walnut base and dustcover. Must sell. 1 anco on t s ave your whiskers.
1

8086 between 7:00 p.m. and 9:00 p.m. Dining Hall. Substantial reward. Call 1 Wednesday. Call Val7088. I Call 3058. I --------------­
Mike 3010. 1 ----------------I --------------I lat Ringo and Jester serenade your Dissertations, manuscripts, paper typed. ----------------1 4 DePaul tickets. Call1153. Full color Cotton Bowl pictures now I Val1ntlne. $2.00 8243,8228. 
IBM Selection II. linda's Letters. 287-Lost set of keys by ACC Ice Rink, Honda 1 ---------------available. Call 8982. I ---------------­
4971. Key. Please call 277-Q222, 234-8279 or One Marquette student ticket. Call Mike ---------------Need ride to Cleveland for Thurs., Feb. turn in to rink Pro Shop for Thelma. 1 at 1424. 19.6 Coachman Travel Trailer; like-new 11 16~_!ri-~Fe~ 17· Ca~Kat'!_1264·_ Typing. R1110111bll rltll. Calll051. I -----------------11 ------------------condition; sleeps 6; self-contained. I 
$.50 a pitcher Is our best offer. Can you
---------------I Lost: One blue ski glove (left hand), 1 4 Marquette tickets. Call Jim at 1419. $3300.00 Call after 6 p.m. 272-8308. I 
beat that? Ubrary 6-10 Thursday night.
Accurate, Fast Typing I between the Rock and Alumni. lost on 1 --------------------------------I 
Be there.
MRS. DONOHO I Thrusday, Feb. 2. approx 4:45 ~.m. If I need 2 GA Marquette tickets real bad. I 

Hours2fA~~6 PM ! fou_nd_pleas~contact~eo_rg_ea_t_148.:.__ ueorge_22~------------PERSONALS I -Or-an-ge_O_h~Camar-o,-Wh-y-dldn-·t-y;;;; 1 Lost: Set of room keys between Sorln & Need 4 tix to Marquette game. Will pay LAN: I follow me off the turnpike? You weren't NEED QUALITY TYPING? Executary, I South Dining Hall. If found, call 8500. to~..:..Ca~277·513~---------February is the month of love & friend· I scared of that truck, were you? For
I

Inc. Professional Typing Service IBM 1 ---------------Desperately need Ga tickets for 1 ship, may it be kind to you. Remember: 1 another test of Driving skills Call AJ at
2

Correcting Selectrics. $.85 per page I April Shower... remaining mellow 1 1387. 
minimum. Call 232-()898 "When you I WANTED Marquette game. Call Ron 3313. 1 me 1 -----------------­
1 -----------------1 1 Party with Dillon and Farley! Ubrary
want the Best'· Resumes: $3.00 per page. 
Desperately need 4Ga Marquette tickets. Female wanted to share spacious 2-1 LAN: 1 Happy Hour, U Friday. Team chugging
1

I bedroom apt. $75 per month after 5 p.m. WTAEBY? Please? 1 an_d'_'name that~ne'' ~ontests:._ ___
Management work-study program this ca111423. 1 1 
1
I

summer at Quantico, VIrginia. Free ca~2BS-al15 · ____________ 1 --------------Meagai~ I To our Koxmlc studio stup -Happy
1

trans-Desperate three girls need ride to Detroit · 1 1 Blrthd J ffl The c
I . Ann Arbor area. Feb. 10 weekend. Call Cleveland...need riders for weekend of I Don't forget that s.,...lal person this ay, a rew.
portation, room and board, books and 
I Feb. 10-13th. Tom m-1222.$ ,... I ---------------­
uniforms plus over $700. for six weeks. : Maryellen 4-1-5332. ----------------1V-day. San~adln_camatlons_____ 1 Dear Gerry & Joe,
See the Marine Officer Selection team In 
LaFortune or the library Feb. 7-10, 9 1 pr. DePaul tlx. Call Chip 1151. Will pay big $$ for ND·Marquette tix. I Be a secret admirer -send Badin II ero~~a~~er~ue --' ..... 
a.m. to 4 p.m. _ca_ll John_3829_:__________ 1 carnations When we think of Jerks 
I -------------I
Need G Marquette tickets. Will pay 1 Need 2 Student or Ga Marquette tickets. 1 Take the Quickie this Friday night 1 We think of you.

money. Chris 283-1023. 1

I Call Claire 289-6533. 1 February 10. _Lov_e_.Th:_Back-up_!ister_s-----­
FOR RENT 1 
------------------I -----------------­
Seniors, looking for a little extra cash for 

I1 Roommate wanted to share 3 bedroom I Cath B ~ Ell c th D. I SMC Rome and london summer pro­
Two furnished houses for rent next school this semester, but only want to work one 1 house at Corby and Hill with two male 1 y, es ' een, a y, mner grams. College credits available. For info 
,_. -9 month lease. 4 bedroom and 5 or two days per week? Pizza Hut at 1 1 tonight in 3 Zahm at 6:00 p.m. sharp. 1 call Dr. Black 284-4948 at school or
1 students. Rent is $84 per month please 1 Be there! Bruce, Bill, Bill, Jon I

Mdroom-near NO off stree parking. Call Edison Rd. is looking for people like you. 272·3726 at home.
I call 288-2991. I -----------------I

234-2626. Call 233-3827. 
I ------------------1 Send a friend a sweet for Valentine's 1 -------·-------­1 Need ride to Illinois State Bloomington-1 Day! Assorted candles for only $.7S and : Happy Birthday Jenni lmfeld!!! We loveFar rent next school year -two nice Need 2or 4 Marquette eix. 8504 or 8502. I -Normal area this weekend. Usa. 41-4849. 1 WE DEUVERI Orders taken In Dining you! Barb, Anita and Annie (P.S. thehouses completely furnished just a couple I 1 H 11 tod by An 1F 1 message was delayed for suprise -clever,
of blocks from campus, good neighbor­Need up to 8GA tlx for Marquette game. I 2Ucket;"forNC State-game~CaHRich or 1 _a_s__ay___ge-~ght______ I huh?)hoods, one four bedroom and one six Call1772. 
bedroom with fireplace. Call 2n-3604. I 1 Joe 1173. I At last· the event we've all been hearing I T-h-anks-to-ailwho donated$ to th;Bengal I Need DePaul tix. Call1043. 2ttcke;for-Marquette~CaURich 1173~ I so much about· call Typhoid Eileen and 1 Missions at the successful, Elusive I I1 ------------------I wish~e_r_a~-appy Birthda_Y·_1286·__ : Happy Hour. Paddlefish T-shirt orders .. 
LOST I FOUND I 1am in dire need of 2 Marquette b-ball I 1 student or Ga DePaul ticket. Call Guy 1 3T Holy Cross, Hope Friday Is lots of fun are still being taken. Call Brian or
1

I tix. Will pay your price. Call1612. I 289-9351. 1 11 8 Michael at 1054 or Tom at 1757. 
Foond: 1student hockey ticket. If you can I 1 ----------------1 Lor everyoTne1.: good and party hearty!! 1 ---------------­
I 1 1 ~p.r~ 1

Identify It, It's yours again. Call 8655. Need ride to Columbus, Ohio Feb. 10.
I Call Molly 1312. ltNeed ride to Detroit or Toledo this I ------------------I Send your sweetie a Valentine Classified. 
I Come up to The Observer 11-5 p.m. today
1Friday. Will share expenses. Call 1 Desperately need Marquette tickedts Call 1

Lost: Green & gold ski cap. Cafeteria. I 
or 11-5:00 p.m. tomorrow. Deadline
Reward. Please call Paul 8540. I Need 4 GA DePaul tix. Any price! Call I Jerry at l400. I Dannie_-_SMC_5330._______ I 
Friday 5:00 p.m.
I Bonnie 6239.

--------------I I I
I • I ..... ,_.,~.a-.... •~.:..., ... 4 ... 1: •• . . .. ~ 
-----------------------------------------------· 
~-------·­


r 
! I 
' 12 the observer Thurscby, February 9, 1978 
l 
l Wilcox settles into Irish system
' 
l by Ted RobluoD Wilcox why he chose Notre Dame, to come from the New York area. 
Sports Writer you would learn something about He follows Pete Crotty, Ray Mar­the Notre Dame mystique. tin, Billy Paterno and Toby Knight. 
If one were to ask the average "There is no one thing which As is the case with most fresh­Fighting Irish basketball player 
stands out in my mind as convinc­men athletes, Stan has had to make why he chose Notre Dame over the ing me to choose Notre Dame," the some adjustments both on and off other basketball powerhouses in North Babylon, New York native the court. the country one would expect to said. "It wasn't one particular "It's a big change from high
hear the same answers. There is characteristic of Notre Dame but all school mainly because the acade­the opportunity to receive a good the factors combined. I had to look mics are harder,'' Wilcox admit­education, or the national exposure at the overall aspect of the school ted. "But I think I can adjust well the Irish enjoy due to their competi­and I felt Notre Dame would be the anywhere I go. The most difficult tive schedule, or the chance to play best choice for me.'' part for me is being away from with outstanding players every Wilcox is the latest in a long line home. All my relatives are from day. But if you were to ask Stan of Notre Dame basketball players the same area so I miss the
Tom Desmond ================~============================================:================================= occassional family reunions.'' 
Wilcox has had to alter his arne 
game since coming to Notre Dame. 
Stan, who stands a svelte 6-3, was

NCAA Draw 
an outstanding shooter in high school. In his senior year at North Babylon High School, he connected 

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: SiX point~rs 
on 66 percent of his field goal
Two years ago, an undefeated Indiana team swept through the NCAA 
attempts, a figure which helped
basketball tournament beating three of the nation's top five teams in the 
earn his first team all-Long Island 
process. Bobby Knight's Hoosiers had to .conquer number-~o 
honors and all-state mention. 
Marquette to get into the final four after knocking out Alabama tn the 
Under Phelps' tutelage, how­
regional semi-finals. Number-three UCLA fell in the semi-finals and Big 
ever, Stan is beginning to bear the 

t Ten runner-up Michigan was Indiana's 32nd victim of the season as the point guard position which stresses Hoosierstook the title.
.) leadership over scoring. It's a 
l 
The road to the title should be a rocky one that only the best team can 
more disciplined game than what 
survive, but the Hoosiers path was the toughest ever due to the method in 
most high schools play, and 
which the brackets of the NCAA tourney were filled that year. The 

, ' It Wilcox is still adjusting. 
already penciled in and the independents

• I conference champions were "In high school, we had a solid
were assigned along regional boundaries where possible. Michigan was a team everyone in
where scored
conference runner-up and became an at-large selection automatically figures," Wilcox
double said.
banished from the Mideast region because the champion Hoosiers were 
"But after playing with each other 
tied to that group of eight. Marquette was the top mideast independent 
for three years, we knew each


hence their placement in the same regional as Indiana and the Southeast 
other's moves perfectly. Here at

Conference champion Alabama was also there. It was "luck of the draw" Dame, still Freshman Wilcox new learned defensive
Notre I'm learning Stan shows skills that kept the Warriors from meeting Indiana int he first round. Ifthe draw everyone's game by trying to against Lafayette last Wednesday night. [Photo by Doug
had placed number-one Indiana against number-two Marquette in the Christian]
create different situations. By the
opening round, the nation's sports media would have supplied unending 


end of the season, I should know Three jumpers against Indiana some of his improvement to-thecriticism so the wheels of change began to tum in the hierarchy of the everyone's game 100 percent. and three baskets in the stretch work of the coaches.
NCAA. 

Wilcox averaged 17 points per against San Francisco show that "In the early part ofthe season, IThis year's tourney carries the changes that were gestated by the game in his senior year, so he isn't wilcox isn't afraid to take the shot. was having some problems with my "accident that could have happened" two years ago. For the first time the about to abandon his scoring His .520 shooting percentage jumper," Wilcox recalled.. "But,tournament will be seeded within the regions. The eight slots in each altogether. It's just that he's through the first half of the season (assistant coach) Scott Thompsonregion will be filled by four already placed conference and four seeded learning when to take his shot. is also a good omen for the man straightened it out for me one dayat-large teams. The pool from which the at-large teams will be selected "In college, the players are they call "silky." 
after practice. And Digger hasincludes independents, the ECAC regional champions plus the East Coast 

better, bigger and quicker on Altogether, Stan Wilcox is 
helped me aggres­
Conference and Pacific Coast Conference champions. The latter two become more 
defense," Wilcox said, "so you pleased about Notre Dame. Admit­sive on the court. If r m going to beteams will be placed at-large inthe East and West Regions respectively. 
just have to see your shot and take tedly, the first semester was not the point guard andhande the ballOnce the four at-large teams have been designated for each of the it. You can't alter your shot. I've easy academically, but Stan credits most of the time, then I'm going toregions, they will be ranked one to four. The automatics (the major tried to develop my jumper into a the coaching staff with making sure have to take charge of the
conference champions) have already been ranked based on their team's team 
higher percentavge shot, so that the players ''hit the books after totally."
performances in the last five NCAA tournaments. Needless to say the once you get the rhythm down, you practice and make classes." On

Pac-8 champ is seeded number-one in the West, the Big Ten in the As part of one of the top
should be able to hit it.'' the court, Stan can also attribute to
Mideast, theACCin the East and Big Eight in the Midwest are the top 
freshmen classes in the college automatics in their regions. basketball ranks this year, Stan 
The teams will be matched up according to their seeding, the No. 1 came to Notre Dame realizing that automatic will meet the No. 4 at-large and so-on. The at-large teams will he wouldn't see much playing time be assigned to their "appropriate regions" but that is not a steadfast rule. initially as he would have at 
·~ppropriateregions" leaves a lot to the discretion of the committee. another school. But, the competi­
What does all this mean at this point in the season? h means that tion has convinced Wilcox that he Sunday's game against 19-2 DePaul will go along way to deciding where wants to stay in South Bend. the Irish will be come tournament time. DePaul, Marquette and Notre ''Our freshman class has f n­Dame are the Mideast's top independents and all three will make the couraged me to want to sta • i ;!~ e,'• tournament but only one will probably remain in the Mideast. One Wilcox admitted. "We ca.: n, "!nit­Chicago sportswriter has ranked the three and claims Marquette is the ely stay on top for some years to best and the Irish are the worst. DePaul suffered a six-point loss at come. And, by out senior year, Marquette but defeated Providence and is currently rated 11th in both there's no one who could play with polls. The Irish have the advantage in playing the Blue Demons here on us." Sunday and the Warriors in two weeks, and are in the driver's seat for Undoubtedly, Stan Wilcox has Mideast supremacy. something to look forward to. 
DePaul changed its game with Notre Dame last year to accomodate the broadcast of the San Francisco game. DePaul received financial renumeration for the move plus the guarantee of a television appearance 

Notre Damf! grapplers dominate 
this season. They will be out to make the most of the opportunity. But the pressure doesn't fall on the Demons. Digger Phelps and his Irish are in a must-win situation. Notre Dame is supposed to win at home. DePaul 





Western Michigan, 27-12
backers can merely respond that their legions were not expected to win 

should the Irish extend their home court win streak on Sunday. A Notre difference did not seem to bother
by Brian Beglane Mike Padden's 7-0 win in the 167 
Dame win is assumed and the pressure lies in the way the Irish win. As Sports Writer him, however, as he beat Ron Vass pound class came at a good time for 
alluded to in this column last week, Notre Dame must win with 10-5. Yesterday was also the first Notre Dame. The Irish were onlyconfidence. They must win convincingly. The cancellation of the Holy The Notre Dame wrestling team time Vass has wrestled without a ahead by two at this points, 11-9. 
Cross may prove harmful because of the forced lay-off. The Irish were went into yesterday's match with faceguard, which he needed to Padden's shutout gave ND four 
sharp against Davidson as the shooting of Dave Batton, Rich Branning Western Michigan with title it protect a cut over his eye. team and its
a points increased 
and Bill Laimbeer carved the Wildcats up in the second half. DePaul has a has never held before. The Irish Pat McKillen beat Brian Baugh­advantage to six. 
super rebounding team spearheaded by 6-11 Dave Corzine who averages are National Catholic champions, a man 3-2 in yesterday's 150 pound Rob Dreger followed for the Irish12 rebounds a ball game. The Demons know how to win as their record name they earned by winning the bout. Baughman appeared to be with a win by forfeit in the 177indicates and any slack in shooting or ball-control that is a product of the National Catholic Tournament held stalling throughout the match and pound class. The six team pointslay-off will have to be compensated for by superior play underneath if the at Notre Dame last Sunday. many fans were screaming for a received by Notre Dame put theIrish are to win convincingly and set up the battle for Mideast supremacy The Blue and Gold grapplers call from the referee. The call match away. 
I • 
when Marquette comes to town. lived up to their title yesterday, never came but the fans knew what 
~ Ticket manager Mike Busick informs me that students should be sure to defeating the Broncos of Western they were talking about. Joe Curletta lost the 190 pound keep the Holy Cross ticket attached to their student tickets. Do not tear it Michigan 27-12. Although the Irish ·'They moved their captain to a match to the Broncos' Dan Ross 'off. An announcement concerning refunds will be made shortly but won by 15 points, the match was different weight class and put 7-4, but given another 30 seconds student ticketholders are urged not to tear the Holy Cross stub off of their much closer, since 12 of those team Baughman in his place at 158. the outcome could have been season ticket... points came by wins on forfeit. He's not used to that weight and different. Curlettacame on strong The College Sports Information Directors of America (CoSida) has George Gedney started things off was stalling most of the way," towards the end and was inches announced its 1977 Academic All-America Football squad and three Irish right for Notre Dame with a win in noted McKillen, who is Notre away from a takedown when the pre-meds are on that squad. Guard Dave Vinson, Tight End Ken the 118 pound division. The junior Dame's all-time winningest wrest­whistle blew to end the match. MacAfee, both seniors and junior Joe Restic were named to the first-team. from Pensacola, Fla., easily de­ler. 
Bob Golic ended the day for the
Dave Vinson was also awarded a post-graduate sc;holarship by the feated WMU's Jim Saunders 13-0. "It makes you a little mad but Irish with a win by forfeit in the
National Football Foundation in December... Gedney was a runnerup for the there is not too much you can do heavyweight division. 
The resurgent Irish leers will be in action this weekend against second straight year in Sunday's about it. Strategically it was a·
I -\ Next up for the Irish is an away
' 
Michigan Tech ... only one point out of first place, Lefty Smith's team NCIT. smart move on their part." 

match against John Carroll Univer­
swept Michigan last weekend and success this Friday and Saturday night Dave DiSabato movd up one Pat's winning point came at the sity this Saturday. could put the Irish in contention for home ice in the first round of the weight class for yesterday's match. start of the third period with an play-offs...face-off is at 7:30 both nights leaving plenty of time to go over The product of St. Francis De Sales escape. , Baughman averted Their fans will be crazy and their to Mardi Gras and contribute to charity after an Irish win...the DePaul High School in Columbus, Ohio, McKillen' s attempts at taking him team wil beup for it so it will be a game will start at 1:00 p.m. on Sunday, that is a change from the originally normally wrestles at 126 but down the rest of the way and the close match,'' explained Pat scheduled 2:00. . grapples yesterd~y at 134. The match ended with McKillen on top McKillen . 
.. 






