

an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's
Vol. XII, No. 105 Wednesday, March 29, 1978 
New SU board appointed by Roche 
j
given a new purpose this year," time to an analysis of-SU monetary allocation, preparing all Molnar, and Terry Gerth will take by Tim Sullivan Roche stated. "Rather than operations. financial statememtns, paying the academics, movies, and I concentrate on a few events, we Mary Ann Moore, a junior from bills, and providing financial Concerts Comptrollers positions 
Chosen by newly appointed will look at different ways to Pheonix, AR, will assume the information to the directors to help · respectively. Student Union (SU) Director Bill enhance the overall academic Publicity Director post, after them decide what projects are "There hasn't been as much Roche, the new ·SU board is communication between the comp­
atmosphere as well." supervising the Calendar Office feasible." 
prepaing to take office Friday. Two comptrollers have been trollers and the commissions in the
A junior from Bethel Park, PA, this year. The new Calendar Office 
Roche described the new board as Gary Luchini, will become the new Coordinator will be Rosanne assigned to the social commission. past,'' commented Carney, ''and "an extremely talented group with Services Commissioner. He Pozsgai, a junior from South Bend Sophomore Rick Pinkowski will we hope to place more emphasis on a great amount of experience with oversaw the poster distribution for who worked in the office this year. manage Darby's Place, the Nazz, a greater accessibility to solve this 
the Union." the commission this year and has Joe Lacosta, a junior from and homecoming expenses, and problem." Roche stated that all Gene Woloshyn, a junior from also worked with the Campus Life Shrewsbury, NJ, will maintain his Donna Ziemba will handle all other the commissions are now looking Toledo, Oh, will assume the post of Council. post as the ticket office manager. projects. for assistants and other volunteer Associate Director. He served this Concerts Commissioner Director Maureen Carney, the new Head The Services Comptroller will· be staff members to work on various year as Executive Coordinator of for the past two years, junior Jim Comptroller, defined the position Sandy Rogaski,-and the cultural projects. Those who wish to offer 
the Social Commission. Woloshyn Speier will maintain his post this as "making sure the various arts comptroller wilJ be Adam their services should contact him stated that he will be coordinating year. Betty Sommers, a Lake commissions stay within their Szczepanski. Hank Baaij, Anne by calling the SU office at 7757. SU events with the Hall Presidents Forest, 11 junior, will assume the 
Council and other campus organi­position of Movies Commissioner. 
zations, as well as overseeing the She has worked in that commission commissions within the Union. for the past two years.Filling the office of Social After serving as an assistant Commissioner is John Bonacci, a 
director in· the Academic Commis­
junior from Rochester, MI, who sion this year, John Kuluz, a worked in the commission this year sophomore from Pascagoula, MS, and helped with the concert will become the new director of that commission as well. 
commission. Earning his position by helping Curt Hench, sophomore from
a 
to coordinate the Sophomore 
Defiance, OH, will become the Literary Festival last year and by new Executive Staff Coordinator. 
working with the Cultural Arts He was an executive aide this year 
Commission this year, Jerry Perez, in SU. "Curt will be coordinatinga junior from East Canton, OH, will at-large projects within the union, take the post of Cultural Arts and working to these special
Commissioner. "The Cultural Arts projects, he will be devoting his Commission will be redefined and 
Venezuelan speech 'welcome gesture~ 
CARACAS*Venezuela (AP]-Jimmy He spoke again in Spanish, Carter, the most popular U.S. saying Bolivar's dreams were the president in Latin America since same as those held by George John F. Kennedy, told Venezuei­Washington, Argentine indepen­ans yesterday that Senate approval dence hero Jose San Martin and of his Panama Canal treaties "will "all those who struggle today for be a cause of celebration." human liberty.'' The president ended the speech with a cry: "Viva
Carter spoke in fluent Spanish Venezuela.''
during his arrival ceremony, sur­prising many on his first state visit A crowd of 2,000, the largest he to America's southern neighbors. encountered on his first day here, He learned Spanish as a midship­waved paper U.S. and Venezuelan man at the U.S. Naval Academy, flags and cheered. The president Pictured above is the newly appointed SU board. From left they are: Back row-
and he made only a few small waded into the crowd, shaking jerry Perez, Cultural Commissioner; Betty Sommers, Movies Commissioner; Jim Speier, Concertgrammatical errors in his remarks. hands, including those of some Commissioner; Gary Luchini, Services Commissioner; Curt Herch, Executive Staff Coordinator: JohnAmerican tourists. One of them,
It was a welcome gesture in this Kuluz, Academic Commissioner; Mary Ann Moore, Publicity Coordinator; Roseanne Pozsgai, Calendar
Carrie Miznitzer, 22, of Boston,
Spanish-speaking nation. It also Coordinator; joe LaCosta, Ticket Office Manager; 
burst in tears and shouted: "Hello
avoided repetition of embarrassing Front-Gene Woloshyn, Assistant Director; John Bonacci, Social Commissioner; Joanne Dowd, Calendar
Jimmy. That's great!"
translation errors that plagued his Coordinator. [photo by Dave Rumbach] 
The reception and comparativelyvisit earlier this year to Poland. 
discreet security measures were in 
Carter, his wife Rosalynn, 10 a 1958 visit by
sham rontrast to 
year old daughter Amy and top then Vice-President Richard M. 

Hesburgh awarded honorary
American officials including Secre­Nixon and a 1%1 visit by President tary of State Cyrtls R. Vance and Kennedy. Nixon was spit upon and national security advisor Zbigniew his car nearly overturned. The 

degree by Universite Laval

Brzezinski, arrivetl shortly after army mobilized 40,000 troops for noon EST aboard Air Force One, 
. K«:.nnedy's visit. In Hesburgh's opinion, the major or some combination of these. Hethe blue and silver presidential jet. 
Later, Carter and President Car­by Jim Coyne dilemmas that the university must suggested that the university is the They will fly to Brazil today, then only place where such a combina­
los Andres Perez set aside more come to terms with are: ride Air Force One across the than two hours for talks about University President Fr. Theo­remaining relevant to the problems tion has been found in the past and 
Atlantic where Carter will become U.S.-Venezuelan relations. Topics dore Hesburgh was awarded an of society while at the same time that ''there is no other place to the first American chief executive included energy and economic honorary degree last December by retaining the good traditions of the expect anything better intellectual­to make a state visit to black Africa. cooperation, human rights, curbing Universite Laval in Canada. The university; ly for the future." 
He will visit Nigeria and Liberia. . the spread of nuclear weapons and presentation came during a concerning itself with contempor­Hesburgh insisted that theThe president and his party will week-long series of events held to
restraints on arms trade. ary problems and solutions and ultimate relevance of the university
return to Washington early next commemorate the 12Sth anniver­acting as an independent critic of is to focus on;~ "man, human like,
week. Internation topics on the Carter sary of the school's charter by 
society;and the vision and perspectives,
Perez agenda included the impact Queen Victoria. 
After his arrival at the Caracas successes and failures of human

of oil prices on the world economy maintaining its traditional com­
airport, named for national hero Hesburgh's address, given in history, which are so well
and politics in Africa. Venezuela mitment to excellence while
Simon Bolivar, Carter drove past French, dealt with the role of dramatized in our literature, art,
pr'lvides much of the U.S. oil providing equality of opportunity in 
shanty towns, or "ranchitos," the university in a rapidly changing and cultural heritage.''
supply. Carter will visit Africa higher education.
where the poor of Venezuela live, society and offered a possible route
before returning to Washington Hesburgh noted that the modem Hesburgh noted that ''in educat­
to Bolivar's tomb. He placed a to survhal. . According to him the 
wreath near Bolivar's remains in next week. central chanenge now facing university must find its mission and ing students to Jive today and ultimate meaning in a world of tomorrow, universities cannot for­
the nave of the National Rantheon, American officials who asked not universities is whether they will be 
change. He stessed that at the get to educate them for the longa century-old Spanish renaissance to be identified reported that three able to adapt themselves quickly future that is theirs on this planet
style church dedicated to the Holy • accords will be signed during enough to survive in the midst of same time there must be some 
constants, such as an unfailing or elsewhere."

Trinitv. the changes they have created.
[eoodnued on paae 3] faith in God, man, truth, the good~ 



Wednesday, March 29, 1978 
the observer 

~News Briefs____--.. 
~~~~===============~National 
Deaf juror files suit 
UTTLE ROCK, Ark.· Theresa Eckstein, excused from jury duty because she is deaf, has filed suit against a Circuit Court judge and the state of Arkansas saying her constitutional rights were violated. Eckstein, 29, alleges in the court action that Circuit Judge William 
J. Kirby excused her from federal jury duty after he learned she would r.eed an interpreter while serving on the jury. The suit filed in federal court asks that a section of the Arkansas constitution be declar·.\d unconstitutional. The section authorizes judges to excuse potenhal jurors whose eyesight or hearing is substantially impaired. 
Satellite launched 
CAPE CANAVERAL, F1a. • The Broadcasting Satellite designed to conduct research aimed at transmitting high-quality color television signals, will be launched April7 from Kennedy space Center, space agency officials announced yesterday. The satellite will be launched into stationary orbit 22,300 miles from Earth over the Equator south of Japan. 
====:=:::::========================== Local 
Penn Ce;;;;ral gets grant 
INDIANAPOUS • The Indiana t'Ubllc ~erv1ce Lommiss1on has been given a $833,490 federal grant to improve three rail freight lines in the state, Sen. Birch Bayh, D-IN, has announced. The funds from the Federal Railway Administration will be used for the Penn Central freight lines which run between Auburn and Auburn Junction, Decatur and Portland and North Vernon and Madison. 

INew system installed 
INDIANAPOLIS • The Postal Service has announced plans to instal 
a computerized mail forwarding system at the main post office here 
Indianapolis is one of SO metropolitan areas that will receive th~ equipment, which is expected to arrive in August. It allows clerks tc retrieve new addresses rapidly and attach mailing labels with th{ use of a video screen and a typewriter keyboard. Tests have showr that the sytem can reduce the cost of processing chang-of-addres~ mail by almost three cents per letter. 

WEATHER 
Clear and cool nights and mostly sunny and mild days today and tomorrow. Highs today in the low 50s. Lows tonight in the low 30s. Highs tomorrow in the upper 50s to low 60s. 

,.On Campus Today_-----.. 
12:15 pm 
4:30pm 
6;30 pm 6:30pm 
7pm 
7:30pm 
8:15pm 
colloquium:"housing assistance supply expeiment: a change in the approach to housing policy," dr. douglas scott, rand corp. 509 mem. lib., sponsored by center for study of man in contemporary society. 
colloquium: "molecular orbital radiation," dr. randolph peterson, n. texas st. univ., 118 nieuwland, sponsored by physics dept. 
meeting, sailing club, 204 engr. bldg. 
judo & self defense classes, nd judo club. accwrestling pit, all present members should attend, beginners welcome. 
career workshop: "information gathering and job research," betsy twitchell, mccandless piano rm., sponsored by smc career development ctr. 
lecture: "sex and mathematics," american scene cultural series, mary gray, american univ. d.c., carroll hall smc. 
concert, scott tennant, mem. lib. aud. sponsored by music dept. & south bend classical guitar society. 
$1. 

(*The Observer)  
GRAND OPENING  
Night Editor : Rosemary MiIIs Asst. Night Editor: Tom Behney Sayout Staff: Anne ~ver, Lenore Koczon, Sue Johnston, Mike Jackson Editorial layout: Kathy Mills Sports Layout: Greg Solman and Paul Mullaney  
Typists: Mark Rust, Rizzo, Rich Clariz1o  Beth  
Early Morning Typist: Me Day Editor: Kathy Connelly Copy Reader: Jerry Perez, Reed King Ad layout: Norman and Disaster Zone  
Photographer: Dave Rumbach  
t l t  ~------_,)  

The Observer Is publloed Mon­day through Friday except during exam and YK!Ition periods. Tile Observer Is published by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for no per ye.,. (11 a per semester) from The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, lndlane 4U56. Second Nil postage paid, NoW. Dame, Indiana, 4US6. . The Observer 11 a member of the Auoclated Prell. All repro­duction rlfthts are reaerved. 




Consumer price index rises; economists fear sharp increase 
WASHINGTON [AP] -Prices of beef and other foods increased substantially in February, pushing overall consumer prices up 0.6 
percent and a~ding  to  fears  that  
inflation  may  be  worse  than  
expected  in  1978,  government  

figures showed yesterday. 
Sever winter weather was partly to blame for a 1.2 percent increase in food costs, the same as in January, the government said. Grocery prices rose by 1.3 percent, with beef prices up 4.1 percent and pork up 2.6 percent. 
If that rate were to continue through .the whole year, food costs alone would increase more than 18 percent this year. Although no one expects food prices to keep rising as fast as that, the Carter administration has been caught off guard by the size of the increase so far. 
Besides beef and pork, other food prices also increased. Poultry rose 1.6 percent, and there were increases for cereal and bakery products, dairy products and processed fruits and vegetables. Prices of fresh fruits and vegetables and fish declined. 
Economists say the sharp increase in beef prices was due partly to the weather, which made it more difficult to move cattle to market, and partly to a trend by 
cattlemen toward keeping smaller herds because of what they consider low prices. 
Except for food, February intlation was not as bad as in January, when overall consumer prices increased 0.8 percent. Clothing prices declined in Feb­ruary and housing costs rose, but not as rapidly. 
Nevertheless, the pace of 
Police chief has real 'Angels'' 
[AP] -Police Chief Leo Callahan has two "Angels" of his own, but unlike TV's Charlie, Callahan is not likely to send his winsome officers tlitting off on perilous adventures. 

Carole, a shapely 24-year-old brunette, and Viki, a perky 18-year-old blonde, just happen to~ be Callahan's daughters. 
.. 

Carole, a former dispatcher for ~ the Broward County Sheriff's officer is now on regular patrol, and her sister is assigned to the tingerprint ~ lab. 
"I catch a lot of ribbing abou~ them being my angels,'' Callahan says, "particularly that one's a l blonde and one's a brunette. And r they are good-looking." .. 
"They say, 'Dad, don't call us your angels.' But it can't be~ stopped.'' ' 
Callahan, who has been chied since 1973, has mixed emotions about his daughters following in his gumshoes. 
"They're adults." he said with a inflation in the past two months has led many administration econo­mists to conclude that prices will increase this vear faster than the official forecast of 6.1 percent. 

William A. Cox, deputy chief economist at the Commerce Department, said consumer prices may increase as much as 6.6 percent. Others expect it will be near 7 percent. 
"Unless we come into some unforeseen luck, it will be hard to break even at 6 percent htis year," Cox said. Consumer prices increased 6. 9 percent l1st year, and the administration has been hoping to shave at least 0.5 percent from the intlation rate in 1978. 
The Labor Department said its consumer price index for February stood at 188.4 of the 1967 average of lOU, meaning goods that cost $100 eleven years ago, were priced at $188.40 last month. 
The consumer price index is not a cost of living report, however, since it does not measure increases in taxes, such as this year's Social Security tax rise. 
Taxes, however, do affect the buying power of workers' pay­checks, which declined in February for the third consecutive month, the Labor Department said in a separate report. 
It said workers' purchasing power declined 0.2 percent. Although that was an improvement over a record 3.1 percent drop in January, it left workers with a scant 1 percent more in purchasing power in February than they had a year earlier. 



aaaa 

'Cleats'
•
IS 
Coming


aaaa
1-----------------------------------------1i 

Tonite: 9:00 Jazz In The Nazz featuring 
the 3 o'clock jazz combo: Greg Carahoolad, drums Jim Tucci, trumpet 
Steve Burbidge, bass John Flaherty., guitar David Kosidowski., piano 

JU(J(JlER 
llfllre ,.,,;JtJ•mll Ill"'' Alii, 
/ltJrt "'""'"' ltJr P•lliulitJn: /lfNIIff,

llditJII ,.,., lind ,.lllll&lifl/l , : •""''* ..,Allltllllll ,,,, 
ulo,_, IJf 1tJ &g/IM 1111111 WI O'Sifgg IMtl/111: April I 
sigh. "I neither encouraged them 
nor discouraged them. Obviously, •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 
I'm proud of them. But having 
been a police officer for 22 years I 
: Notre Dame Concert Band :
know what they really face in the field.'' But Callahan can only blame 
himself for the career aspirati 1ns of : Spring Concert : 
his onlv two children. They grew up in a hou~e •• •• 
stocked with police scanners and • Thursday, March 30 8:15pm. • 
radios that blared 24 hours a day; • • 
Christmas presents were likely to • • 
be fingerprint kits; Carole's cat was • • 
dubbed "Signal 20." • Athletic and Convocation Center • 
''Daddy always saved the best • • homicide pictures for dinner, and • University of Notre Dame • 
we grew up with gory pictures at • • 
the table because that't when we • • 
were all together," Carole said. • • 
• 

• 
Carole remembers her first date e : when she was 15 years old. When e • the young man arrived, Callahan • • 
greeted him with, "Your picture • Adm.ISS.IOn Free • 
was taken as you entered the door. • • Now if you wilJ just step over to the • • table so I can take your • • fingerprints..." • • "We never saw him again,"· • e 
Vic~. s~i~ ..~-!? -~-~~~.~~~~-:...·.·.·.· .. -~~· .;..S.~..~..•·• •· •·······-.• • .. •··• ....~..~... • e e e e e e e e e e e e 
~ 
r 

Wedilesday1 March 29, 1978 
the observer 

At Hayes -Healy 
Gurley lectures on Marx and Third World 
by Phll WUdenhaln 

John Gurley, professor of eco­nomics at Stanford University, lectured last night before a crowd of 70 in Hayes-Healy Auditorium. His topic: A Marxian view of Third World development. 
Gurley, a noted author and lecturer, traced the evolution of the world from the capitalistic society of the early twentieth century to the three world divisions we know today. Quoting frequently from Marx, Gurley spoke critically of capitalism and stated, "The Bolshe­vik uprising of 1917 was the first successful Marxist assault on the capitalistic citadel.'' 
Gurley centered his talk around the inequality of wealth distribu­tion in Third World countries. He 
Carter's visit to Caracas. One will :;:; ·::::. ·:f:. ·if:. :;:;! 
establish Caribbean fishing boun-~:~: ·::f::. ·:lf:: ::lf:. ~:~: daries between the two nations and :;:; ·::::. ':f:. :if:. ::;: another will pledge joint efforts to ~:;: ':If::. '1!;:. :if::. t 
curb illegal traffic in narcotics. :::: ·::f:: ::!::.·:if::. :~: But the most important agree-;~;~ ·:::. ·::;. ·:;:. ::: ment they said, will deal with ;:;: U hl. 8 t t t 1• ht :;:
cooperation in the areas_of science.=~-.=~ g u no 00 19 • :.:.·=.~ and technoIogy. Perez ts a Ieader :;:; •:: ..•. •:: ~·:: in efforts to promote Latin Ameri-:::: ':f::. ·:if:. ':f::. ~: 
. .·.· .... :·· .... .. 
can ~c9n'?.m.tc.~c:yelopll!-etrt. .. . .. -~:::::!::::=:::::+::::;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=:::::::;::::::::::::::::=::::~::::-:fit::it;:::::::::::::::::::::;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:::::;:;::: 
.. . .. 
Q:J.•"-".":+t:•'•'"•'•"•""•'•'•'•..'•'·'--~---'!flf:;····························································...·····:···:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:-:-:-:-:·:·:·:·:·:~!f
f.......·...............·.·.·.·.·.·.·. ·::4~. -!~;;:: %;~~·········,····~······;·······-·.·.·.·c············-----.w-. ···~· · .... · ............. t 
1

~l~~ ·:lflf::.·:~~:: ·::~:-S 0 mIng . •. r~ 
also criticized the inequality of 
wealth among capitalist nations 
stating, "The economic inequality 
among these nations is becoming 
ever larger." 
Although he acknowledged that some third world countries have made considerable progress under the capitalist system, Gurley stated that this progress aids only a certain portion of the population. He_ said, "The rapid development of Third World countries is of no help at all to one-third of the population. 
Gurley also pointed out that this rapid development occurs in a U-shaped form. He referred to the initial decrease in per capita in­come and employment that occurs before this rapid increase in eco­nomic development. He added that this development produces both 

john Gurley1 professor of economics at Stanford University. [photo by Dave Rumbach] 
Commission vi-ews Radio City as possible landmark 
NEW YORK [AP] • Radio City Music Hall, scheduled to be closed April 12, should be desig­nated an "interior historic land­mark,'' the City Landmark Preser­vation Commission said yesterday. such a designation prohibits altera­tions of the art deco interior but not demolition of the building. 
The commission's recommenda­tion, which goes to the city's Board of Estimate for action, would not permanently save Radio City. but a commission staff member said it would result in a delay of at least a year of any .move toward demoli­tion. 
Rockefeller Center Inc., which owns Radio City, has not disclosed what it plans to do with the ha11 after it is closed. Rockefeller Center president Alton Marsha)] has threatened to challenge the city's landmark designation law in court. 
Carter's speech1 f
1 W6 COme g8S Ufe to Venezuelans 
[contiaued from page 1) 
Lt. Gov. Mary Anne Krupsak, who has been leading the fight to save the hall, said in a statement 
.after the commission's vote: "I am absolutely overjoyed and convinced that Radio City Music Hall will be saved." 
In announcing last January that the home of the world-famed, high-kicking Rockettes would close after the Easter Show, Marshall cited dwindling attendance and revenues, and projected the hall's 1978 losses would be more than $3.5 million. 
Attendance at the 45-year-old theater averaged about 5 million yearly until 1867. after that year, attendance at the 6,200-seat theater gradually dropped to less than 2 million last year. 
But after it was announced that the hall would close, attendance began picking up. 
Hours announced 
The Angela Athletic Facility will 
J remain open until 11 o.m. every night, resuming theoperating hours it observed before a sertes of campus-wide energy cutbacks. 
"equilibrium and inequilibrium" 
in society. He concluded, "Devel­
opment cannot be an interrupted 
growth process protected from 
external antagonists, for antago­
nists exist within the capitalist 
system itself." 
Gurley also criticized capitalism 
because ''the capitalist mold builds 
on efficiency which is often contra­
dictory to equality." He believed 
that cheating and subversion are 
rewarded in a capitalist economic 
system. 
Gurley did not refute capitalists' 
explanations of the inequality of 
wealth in Third World nations. He 
believed present information was 
inconclusive. But he did add that 
these nations are often treated like 
"children with childhood ills that 
must be worked out.'' He also 
stated that the inefficiency and 
ineptness of underdeveloped coun­
tries are often beneficial to 
advanced capitalist nations. 
Surprisingly, Gurley was not 
above criticizing Marxists. He 
believed they should examine the 
capitalists' views although he 
thought they should question them. 
He suggested that Marxists · 
examine the situations surrounding 
Third World countries that have 
become successes as capitalists. 
''Marxists are trained to be highly 
suspicious," stated Gurley, "They 
greatly mistrust surface data.'' 
Gurley concluded his presenta­
tion by stating that capitalist 
development caused the inefficien­
cies of underdeveloped nations 
because these inefficiencies are 
beneficial to developed capitalist 
countries. Gurley added, "This 
development creates the revolu­
tionary condition required to over­
throw capitalism.'' 
Bergin participates in conference 
Thomas P. Bergin, dean of continuing education at Notre Dame, was a participant this week in the annual conference of the National Art Education Association in Houston. He presented a talk, "Arts in Education," and was a member of a panel discussing "Government Effect on Art Education Programs.'' 
Bergin was recently named to the National Advisory Committee on the Arts, a group organized to formulate policy for overall quality programming in maintaining national and international interest in the arts and aesthetic education. 
Lemans ·'Academy 
~~r~ws~n-up·~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 

Sign-ups for interviews with Lemans Academy will be this week 
at  the . Placement  Bureau.  
Interviews  will  be  conducted  
Tuesday.  

Lemans Academy is a private military academy for students 9-15 years of age and is located in Rollin Prairie, IN. 20 miles from South Bend. 
The position available is that of dormitory1 supervisor. For details and to sign up for an interview, contact the Placement Bureau in Room 213 of the Administration Building. 
.. 

The results of such successful 0'Shaughnessy. He will give a revolutions will be the topic of John Marxist's view of Socialist develop­Gurley's next presentation to be held ment. Thursday at-3:30p.m. in room 242 
,r"" ... . . ... ·. 
..,._...;;;..;,~..;...;...;;.....;......;..;;.~------:.....-~--~------, 
Tl k f I 
c e s now on sa e 
at Student Union Ticket office and ACC Box OHice 

1..---------------........-~-·-----------­
Gu·rley lectured last night on 11 A Marxian view of Third World Development." [photo by Dave Rumbach] 

1978 -79 
Cheerleading Tryouts 

/ · 1n~~ 

Mit.~r',,, '" ~t 11'~ /!""'{ l' \ 1}~~­{ \ . ~ 
All Notre Dame and St. Mary's students 
interested in trying out 
for a Cheerleader or 
leprechaun position: 
Sign up this week in the Student Activities Office. 
Any questions call 7308 

,Tryouts will be held the week of April 2nd 
Monday ApriI 10 8:00 pm
CC

Notre Dame A All Seats Reserved 8.00 & 7.00 
w• day, March 29, 1978
4 tba ob&MVer 


Notre Dame accepts 2 million in research grants for February 
Notre Dame has accepted $2,297,321 in awards for the month of February to support individual faculty research projects, facilities and equipment, and innovative educational and service programs, according to Robert E. Gordon, vice president for Advanced Stu­dies. 
Awards for research totaled $2,138,938 and includedl 
--$1,670,000 from the 'Depart­ment of Energy for stud~ of the effects of radiation on matter by the Radiation Laborator, directed by Robert H. Schuler. 
--$135,213 from the National Science Foundation (NSF) for study of earthquake response and aseis­mic design of underground piping systems by Teoman Ariman, asso­ciate professor of aerospace and mechanical engineering. 
--$92,729 from the National Insti­tues of Health (NIH) for develop­ment of parasitic worms in the laboratory by Paul P. Weinstein, professor of biology. 
--$74,572 from NIH for study of colo-rectal carcinogenesis in germ­free rats by Mortis Pollard, chair­man and professor of microbiology and director of Lobund Laboratory, and Tomoaki Asano, associate pro­fessor of microbiology. 

f --$64,574 from NIH for structure and function studies on plasmino-· 
gen and plasmin by Francis J. 
Castellino, professor of chemistry. 
· --$50,000 from NSF for study of 
quadratic forms and group theory 
by 0. Timothy O'Meara, Kenna 
Professor of Mathematics. 
--1 30,000 from NSF for experi­
mental research in high energy 
elementary particle physics by a 
team of physics professors includ­
ing Nripendra N. Biswas, Neal M. 
Cason, V. Paul Kenny and William 
D. Shepherd. 
--$10.000 from the American Chemical Society for study of the generation and reactions of a-halo ketone enolate anions by Conrad J. Kowalski, assistant professor of chemistry. 
--$9,850 from the U.S. Army for study of the feasibility of using a wind tunnel to study models by Rob~rt C. Nelson and William B. Roberts, assistant professor of aerospace and mechanical engin­eering. 
--$2,000 from the Tyler Refriger­ation Division, Clark Equipment Co., for coil optimization for vol­ume and performance by K.T. Yang, chairma!l and professor of aerospace and mechanical engin­eering. 
A wards for educational pro-
Supreme Court declares t judges free from lawsuits 
WASHINGTON [APJ -The Supr~me Court. despite angry disagreement by three members, said yesterday that judges virtually are immune from lawsuits by women they have ordered sterilized -even when such orders are mistakes. 
Voting 5-J in a major decision on judicial immunity, the court said an Indiana judge who approved a mother's request that her unsus­pecting teen-aged daughter be sterilized was not subject to damages. 
Judges cannot be sued for damages unless they act in "a clear absence of all jurisdiction," the court said in adhering to a judicial immunity doctrine fashioned in an 1871 Supreme Court deCision. 
Judges' mistakes -even malici­ous mistakes -are shielded by immunity. that doctrine says, so

I judges facing difficult decisions
I 
remain uninfluenced by fear of

t 
personal consequences.

r 
Yesterday's decision reversed a federal appeals court's ruling that LeKalb County, In, Circuit Judge

f 
Harold D. Stump could be sued for his sterilization order. 
The 7th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals had ruled that Stump's order was not a judicial act ·'because of his failure to comply with elementary principles'' of constitutional law. 
An opinion by Justice Byron R. White said that Stump had the authority to issue the order so any possible misuse of authority is beyond legal challenge. 
Justice Potter Stewart, Thurgood Marshall and Lewis f. Powell Jr. dissented, calling Stump's order ''lawless conduct.'' 
"I think what Judge Stump did on July 9, 1971, was beyond the pale of anything that could sensibly be called a judicial act,'' Stewart said in an opinion for the three. 
Taking the rarely used privilege of reading his dissent from the bench, Stewart said, "A judge is not free. like a loose cannon, to inflictindiscriminate~amage when­ever he announces that he is acting in his jucicial capacity." 
"A judge's approval of a mother's petition to lock her daughter in the attic would hardly be a judicial act simply because themother had submitted her ·petitionj to the judge in his official capacicy," Stewart said. 
Linda Kay and Leo Sparkman of Kendallville, In, sued in 1975 seeking damages for the tubal ligation performed on Mrs. Spark­man four years previously. 
Then Linda Kay Spitler of 

Auburn, ln., Mrs. Sparkman was 1!> 
when her mother decided she had 
to undergo the operation. 
In Indiana. Mrs. Sparkman said she is considering lawsuits against her mother, doctors and the hospital where the operation was conducted, but added, "I don't know if I can go through with any more." 
"It really hurt me since we lost. It hurt me really bad,'' she said. 
Mrs. Sparkman's mother. Ora Spjtler McFarlin, presented a legal document to Judge Stump seeking permission for the sterilization. 
The mother claimed her teen­aged daughter had begun dating and staying overnight with older youths and men. She sa.id her daughter was somewhat retarded. 
Judge Stump approved the mother's request without holding a hearing or informing the teen-ager of his action. 
Mrs. Sparkman was told she was to have her appendix removed. She did not learn of her tubal ligation until two years after her 1973 marriage. She is now 22. 
She sued, charging she had been denied her constitutional rights to due process, that her privacy had 
been  invaded  and  that  she  was  
subjected  to  cruel  and  unusual  
punishment.  

A federal trial judge ruled that St·Imp was protected by the judicial immunity doctrine "may...appear to have been premised on an erroneous view of the law.'' 
The 7th Circuit overturned that ruling, but in turn was reversed by the Supreme Court. 
"We cannot agree that there was a clear absence of all jurisdiction .•. Judge Stump performed the type of act normally performed by 
judges...," said White's opinion. 
Joining White were Chief Justice Warren E. Burger and Justices harry A. Blackmun, William H. Rehnquist and John 1 Paul Stevens. 
Justice William J. Brennan Jr. was ill when the court held a hearing on the case and took no part indeciding it. 
"I certainly am grateful for the finding of the maioritv of the court," said Stump Tuesday\ "It is a great relief personally and from the communications I receive from judges throughout the country; I'm sure it will be a relief to them also." 
He said the ruling will make it easier for courts to act more effectively in cases involving juveniles. 


grams totaled $9,120 and included: 
--$2,460 from the Council for 
International Exchange of Scholars 
for a Distinguished Lectureship 
Series directed by Charles K. 
Wilber, chairman and professor of 
economics. 

--$850 from the Indiana Arts commission for the Sophomore Literary Festival administered by Bro. John Benesh, director of student activities. 
--$810 from the National Enoow­ment for the Arts for a visi •g artist and lecture program directed by Moira M. Geoffrion, assis'l~n"' professor of art. 
Notre Dame also received $19,263 for service programs in the Center for Pastoral and Social Ministry, including $7,779 for the Notre Dame Institute for Clergy Education directed by Fr. Robert S. Pelton $7,617 for a needs assess­ment program in the Center for Human Development directed by Fr. Vincent Dwyer, and $3,867 for the Notre Dame Center for Pastoral A new Xerox copier was installed in' LaFortune over spring break.


Liturgy directed by Fr. John Gal­Ien.. 
The Department of Energy a­waded $130,000 to the Radiation Laburatory for facilities and equip­
Hand tooled goods 
merit. 
from Mexico. 
We'll repair





ROCCO'S 
your shoes, 
and we have new 
BARBERS 
shoes too! 

Quick Service Reasonable Prices 
....................
hairstylists 
................. h'l .
w 1 e you wau ... 

531 N. Michigan 
ACROSS FROM THE BOOKSTORE233-4957 
(283) -1144 
u u

• 
• 




course1n app e ristianity? 



Our course will take you deep into the Third World, to some of the most depressed and oppressed places on earth. 
To God's Country. 

As a Maryknoll Missioner, you can share the love of God with these, His people. You can bring them hope and peace and dignity. You will practice some very practical Christianity, too. You might set up adult education classes, show a starving farmer how to improve his crop, or a struggling worker how to improve his lot. Most of all, you will share the Gospel of Jesus Christ. 
You will learn and keep on learning th~ rest of your life. You will learn and share their language, of course. But also their culture, traditions and, yes, their religion. You will learn the quality of joy that can only come from doing unto others, because all the while you give yourself to their lives, they give meaning to yours. Send us the coupon or call toll free (800) 431·2008. 
r~-----------------------------------No~l 
Please tell me more about a lifetime career as a Maryknoll Missioner. 
.Mary~o~!!!al!~!•~e~fo~people 
DIRECTOR OF ADMISSIONS • Maryknoll Missioners • Maryknoll, N.Y.10545 
Dear Father: 

Please send me information about becoming a Maryknoll  0  Priest  0  Brother  
Name  _______  
Address  ___  
City  --~----·  _State  __lip Code  

Age Phone Class~-·--------------­College,_______________Year of Graduation -------­
L _________ 
~ 



;. 

Weq,esdav. Man:h.29. 1978 the observer s 

--~::~~:n:r~~--:. . . : ..-_-: 
··''I 

, VISIONS Of
I ALSO HAD VISIONS Of GE IIING!·BSPECT. ·. 
OH WELL, IOUT OF 2AIN'T MIJ!' .. . ' ' 
' 
. ' 
• 
' 
• 1' ' 

i 
I 
I \ 
I 
\ 



. I ... . .. .. .. ................ -.. .. .... ... .. .. ... .. -.... --.......... -....... -. ... .. .. . . . -~ ... --..----, -~ --.. -... --· .... -..... " ' ·' • ·' . ~ ' ' .. ;t, .. , ..) -' J d. ~ ..-f 
opinion~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
From Revolt To Submission 
~~~~~~~~~~~andycashiola 
What I proffer here is merely an this generation of youth with that of being admitted with the same 
opinion, admittedly based upon 
the sixties. passive characters. severe generalizations. We claim a special sort of music, I do not wish to go into a tirade When I think about the youth of also. It is called Disco. It is very about the ills of Notre Dame. Ask 
· the sixties. it is hard for me not to expressive and meaningful, positing Dean Roemer what priority student be romantic. Theirs was a impressionistic statements such as: interests hold in administrative generation trapped by the stupidity "Shake your booooody" and "I'm policy. Ask a rape victim next time of their elders' decisions. They a brick house.'' The timelessness you pay for a parking violation. were forced to fight in a war which of this music is pellucidly apparent: Ponder what a student is they neither started, nor wished to Merely observe how long "Disco considered when his or her continue. It was fundamentally a Duck" has remained on the charts. education is labeled: "a mismanaged war, a mistake: As a matter of fact, everytime I see comparative bargain." Under that utilitarian-thought-made-actual people dancing or listening to this philosophy, we seem to have through spilled blood. music. I'm overcome -with this become basement-bargain com­
There was in that generation a anticipation that we are all going to modities--packaged and" ready for unique art. . their music: The jump up and each scream: ''I'm use in four or five years, dependingBeatles. the Grateful Dead, the glad I'm a conformist!" upon equipment ordered. Allman Brothers, Jimi Hendrix, There is a fighting spirit in this This generation and our student Neil Young, Janice Joplin, Bob generation: I'm not trying to sell it body is probably not weak and 
Dylan. Stephen Stills.... This was short. History will record it as gullible. Yet, we do accept a lot 
I the music they grew up with. and being responsible for the most that we should not have to. Ten 
~ -which likewise grew up with that famous peaceful attack ever: years ago, a word became a realitygeneration. Timeless music, millions of us pouring to McDon­for an intensified generation,expressive of some sort of fever. It ald's to buy Big Macs. Maybe revolution. The word carried both was exceHent music, and remains there is just nothing to tight for, or meaning and energy: it powered 
so. 
against. anymore. To remedy this the youth clean out of an Then there were demonstrations. want of spunk and vigor. we have atmosphere steeped in trivialities, There was Kent State. and cut our hair, shaved our beards, and into a libertine stratosphere of 
N oodstock. Violations of civil hooked up our bras. and decided to pure feeling. 
--:igr.ts begot ghetto riots. There sit through college so we can fight Today we shy from it,

away was Haight-Ashbury; Ken Kesey, each other for jobs when we perhaps. because. it's too radical. s e r io u s Iy , fo I k S!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! and Timothy Leary...LSD. speed, graduate. too extreme. It demands ~ heroin. pot. cocaine. mescalline, Campus unrest still bubbles responsibility and the onus of 
I 
and. Day-glo paint... Beatnicks, occasionally. At Notre Dame, a freedom. Or maybe this generation 
Pisneyland Is Not Enough
htppies. yippies. and straights. disheartened youth .might lodge a doesn't want to be bothered byGod was dead. but Billy Graham complaint about the social life: such thoughts at all. Besides. was laughing all the way to the they say the school is co-ed, but energy is not so abundant iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii--cJ rt bu c hwaI d bank. There was a sexual remains predominately male. No anymore. Might as well just play it revolution. a space-age revolution, one thinks, or tries, to initiate any out like the driver who is "running Washington--Hardly a week goes "What should I say?" 
and Star Trek. There was. in all of sort of student role in admission. on empty.'' by when some head of state doesn't "Just say the ties between this. energy. Not just in oil. but in Instead, we succumb to a basically I would never back a revolution, visit Washington. In the old days if Zemululu and the United States are people. fascist President and his band of though. Revolt derives from they saw Disneyland while they stronger than they have ever been, But. of course. that generation Trustees. The administrators hold reason and might. Some folks trust were in the United States they went and the admiration for America as 
has passed. It trailed a little into that students here do not want to in these, but as for me, they seem home happy. the preserver of peace is something the seventies, and few of its take on such responsibilities. And to last only as long as people are But things have changed. Most every Zemululan cherishes.'' remnants linger. As this decade they are probably right. So the willing to adhere to them. Then heads of state now come to "All right, but I think we're moves through its denouement, processional of mediocrity contin­again. the only emotion I feel for Washington to see how much wasting a lot of time. I have only maybe it is worthwhile to compare ues. with the same kind of students submissiveness is pity. military aid they can get out of the two davs here.'' · 
United States. The -Zemululan president made 
Several weeks ago the president his remarks which were followed by of Zemululu arrived in Washington a 21-gun salute. for a State visit. The Zemululan The Zemululan president took ambassador to the United States out a notebook, "I almost forgot
~~P. 0. BOX Q~~ 
met him at the plane, as did the the cannons. How many 105-mm American secretary of state and an cannons should I ask for?" honor guard from the U.S. Army, The ambassador replied, "I had foung its way over to the 
U.S. Marines and U.S. Air force. think they said they'd give us

Bradley Observer
LaFortune student center. This The Zemululan ambassador five.'' 
I• • I new addition to LaFortune's 
whispered to the president, "The "Five? My generals told me to
ImpreSSIVe commended
facilities completes the great first thing you must do is review come back with no less then SO." LaFortune-Library transformation the honor guard." "We'll talk about it later. We
Dear Editor,
Dear Editor, process. Notre Dame can now The president said, ''Those are have to go into lunch." claim to be the only school in the I agree with Mr. Bender's nice rifles they're carrying. Can I The Zemululan president said, 
On the night of March 13, I was world where the library sounds like proposal to upgrade The Observer. have them?" "When can we go to the Pentagonfortunate to attend the talk given a social center and the social center Afterall. he was elected because "No," said. the ambassador, and see the stuff!" by Bill Bradley. Though not sounds like a library. The Observer failed to mention his "not yet. First we have to take a "We have to lunch with the anticipating the political forum that ineffectiveness It is no helicopter to the White House President and Mrs. Carter first.
This transformation never
ensued, I was thoroughly pleased one's fault but Mr. Bender's for where President Carter will greet After that we have to place a
bothered me, in its early stageswith the sequence of events that because LaFortune has a better failure to followup on the letter. you. " wreath at the Lincoln Memorial." unfolded. An exuberant and Regarding the proposal for a After reviewing the troops the ''That will blow the whole after­
atmosphere for studying than the
satistied audience watched as Mr. commission to "evaluate" The president of Zemululu got into the noon," the Zemululan president
library anyway. But adding a
Bradley, with an ease, confidence Observer. I ask. what does the helicopter. "Should I ask the complained.
Xerox machine was too much;
and congeniality that I have never Student Body President, Campus secretary of state for 24 of these?" "The Pentagon is just over the
LaFortune will now provide even
before witnessed in a public Life Council Member and a "It's too early in your visit. We bridge from the memorial, Mr.
the sterile sounds of copy machines 
·speaker. fielded a variety of Hall President know about the have to go through formalities.'' President. We can go there after questions covering such topics as usually associated with libraries workings of a newspaper? I profess The president looked very dis­the wreathlaying." cancer research and solar energy; and post-offices. I don't have not to be very knowledgeable about appointed. "How late do they stay open?" 
to judicial and social welfare anything against Xerox machines journalism but I do know The The helicopter landed on the "Five o'clock." themselves; for I too am an ardent
reform; the Panama Canal Treaty Observer has ''financial accounta­White House Lawn where Presi­"Five o'clock? I won't even have and the sale of arms abroad. So dhciple of the recent copy cult. I bility" and "effectiveness." An dent and Mrs. Carter were waiting time to pick up any gunboats for impressive was Mr. Bradley's ev~n like the idea of having a Xerox advisory board keeps a watchful to meet the party. President Carter our navy.'' knowledge of every topic and machine located in LaFortune. It eye over the newspaper but more made his opening remarks calling "We'JI go back the next morn­
question raised that not once did he would be nice, however. if it could importantly it is up to the students Zemululu one of the great countries ing." hesitate in giving an answer, all of be moved to a more secluded to examine any Observer ineffici­of the world and a friend the United "Suppose all the F-lSs are gone which were direct and to the point. corner of the building. encies. The students agreed to the States could not do without. by then?" 
Many distinguished and interest­six dollar raise and have in the past The Zemululan ambassador said "The Pentagon always keeps a
LaFortune Student Center didn't
ing speakers have appeared at protested when they are not out ofthe side of his mouth, "It is dozen in the stockroom for its
have much to offer in the way of
Notre Dame this year, but satisfied. There is no need for now your turn to respond." special friends. Oh, by the way,
atmosphere before break. but this
Mr. Bradley was without question another watchdog on The Observe~ "Good, I'll ask him for two there is a State dinner tonight and
latest addition can only further
the most fascinating. The casual, Marti Hogan and her staff are squadrons of F-lSs and three Beverly Sills is going to sing."
detract from the casual, friendly
informal atmosphere of the Library doing an excellent job reporting the squadrons of F-16s." "That's nice. Maybe I can talk
atmosphere that Lafortune was
Lounge only added to the pleasant news. After all, Mr. Bender, they "Wait. It's not the time. You President Carter out of some cruise
originally meant to provide.
evening. The Young Democrats on never ask for military equipment in missiles during Madame Butter-


made a very wise choice in selecting Bill Bradley to speak to the students. and I hope they will continue to search for comparable speakers in the future. 
William A. Hickey · 
~

Change ::::> 
m

1n LaFortune
• ffl 
z 
Dear Editor: 
0 
0
I was surprised after break tQ 
0 
discover that one of the Lib9'.'9· Xerox machines had a~?-'lially reproduced itself and its ofyspring 
/
f 
__f 


* The Observer 
an independent newspaper serving the notre dame and saint mary's community 
The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the E_ditorial Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters are the v1ews of their authors. Column space if available to all members of the community, and the free expression of varying 
opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
Tony Pace 
Editor-in-Chief Steve Odland Managing Editor John Calcutt 
Executive Editor 
Barb Langhenry Executive Editor 
Rosemary Mills Editorial Editor 
Phil Cackley 
Copy Editor Jean Powley St. Mary's Editor 
Ann Gales News Editor 
Mike Lewis 
News Editor Diane Wilson 
News Editor 
Ray O'Brien Sports Editor 
Bryan Gruley Features Editor 
Box Q 
Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
Wednesday, March 29, 1978 
kept you and cohort Tom Gryp your toes. the Rose Garden. It's against fly. " John Carpenter DrewDanik protocol." los Angeles Times Syndicate 
~~------~----------~ 
ON& !¥1Y I'M ABOfJTIIJIAT? EIGHT1)1-ys OH, 8E51lJ£5, YOU SHJUO~ 
A17CNTION.'
GO/Ne ?OGCT Tl<APPW CJV A 707 IUTH CMON. PRtJ(J[), R£1JF&R.N/ MJT fiOIAJ4R[) FOR. fKR[JE.S OF lJWNI:EN T.V. IT &VER>ON£ IS GlfE£N TO JOANIE, TECHNICJAN9. YOU lXJN'T Be-7HfJJ 7/?AVEL WITH THE EIJTE SEE .. KNOW WHAT IT's UI<E! BAO•• IJIH!T& HaJSEPR£55 ........v .....­
'-\ \ 
.. 

wednesdav, March 29, 19:...:7-=.a______th.....a:......lo~b!IIQIE:se.-·.L.rvJL..:e!E..!r~----=-7 


keep in mind is pre-reg1srranon ·(see ·below(. 

After spring DreaK 
comes spring fever. ••••••••••••••••••••••: Students in these : · e 
p~~resd~p~y -• • 
various symptoms In e e spite ot tne e • remaining evidence • • ot winter. • : 
Another thought to : • 
•  
:  •  
e  Special  10o/o Discount  e  
:  - On All M'r~handi~e  To Notre Dame  :  
e.  ·  & Saint Marr's_Students.  •  

,....................... 
r· -------------------



AUGUSTiftlfiNS 

"HOW CAN I MAKE MY LIFE W.ORTHWHILE?" 
One way may be to IIYe within the Augustinian Fraternity. When you come to live with us, you observe and participate in our community life for several yeara before making a final commitment You obselve that we are a religious community following the charism of St. Augustine and "that together and with one heart in brotherhood and spiritual friendship, we seek and worship God and that we labor in the service of the people of God." We serve h colleges, high schools, parishes, 
foreilln missions, ca• . ..,us ministries, retreats, hospitals and military chaplaincies. WANT MORE INFORMATION? CONTACT: 
Father Bill Waters, O.S.A. Villanova University 
P.O. Box 338 
Villanova, PA 19085 
(215) 525-5612 N•me 
Addreea. City State,__ 

I =--_j;
--.Zip_. ---__ 
School or Occ. 

---~Age -----­
-Phone
l 

. ; 

. . J. '~-. 

-~----~--------~-~-----­
~ 

W~y, March 29, 1978 
T

8 

the observer 



Campus Briefs 
History Contest 
The Committee on the History of the University has announced that it will again award a prize of S50 for the best historical study of any aspect of Notre Dame life. Entries typed and double-spaced, must be sent by April 7 to Fr. Thomas E. Blantz. C.S.C., University archivist and committee chairman. All undergraduates and graduate stu­dents of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's are eligible. 
Halfway House Funds Needed 
A three monthg fundraising 
effort was begun recently for 
Phoenix House. a new halfway 
house for alcoholic w.oman in 
Michiana. The fundraising drive 
has as its goal a total of $150,000 to 
cover the operation of Phoenix 
House for the next three years. A 
non-profit corporation has been 
formed to operate the facility, 
which is located at the former Saint 
Mary's Academy on Miami Road in 
South Bend. 
Phoenix House will offer a much 
needed service. providing food, 
shelter. and a homelike. non-drink­
ing environment for recovering 
alcoholic women in the South Bend 
area. Contributions to Phoenix 
House may be sent to P.O. Box 
1222. South Bend. In 46624. t•or 
further information call 291-2757. 
ND Band Spring Concert 
Notre Dame Concert Band will 
present its annual Spring Concert 
at the ACC on Thursday at 8:15 
p.m. 
The concert will be the last in a 
series that has taken the band 
through Illinois, Indiana, Louisi­
ana. Missouri, Oklahoma, Tennes­
see and Texas. 
Faculty Concert 
Carol S. Dzikowski, soprano, and 
Jeffrey Noonan. guitar and lute. 
will present a Faculty Duo Concert 
in the Little Theatre at Saint 
Mary's College on Thursday at 8:00 
p.m. 
Dzikowski earned a bachelor of 
music degree in education at Saint 
Mary's and a master of music 
degree from Western Michigan 
University.. 
Noonan earned a bachelor of arts 
degree from the University of Notre 
Dame and a bachelor of Music 
degree from Hartt College of 
Music. He is also on the faculty of 
Indiana University at Fort Wayne. 
Summer Study in England 
Eastern Michigan University is offering a summer foreign study program in England for students who elect to take one or both of the program's two courses. Students can earn three hours of graduate or undergraduate credit each for ''The State of English in Two Cultures" and "Film: The Human Document.'' . 
The first course, which is' a comparative study of methods of teaching English in British and American schools, will run from June 24 to July 14. It will be taught by Frank Ross, professor of English at Eastern, and Thomas P. Pietras 
of the Ann Arbor Public Schools. 
The film course begins July 15 and will continue through Aug. 4. A study of several films, primarily British, the course is aimed at developing critical insights into the art of cinema and seeing it as an important means of' recording human 'experience. The instructor will be Paul D. McGlynn, professor 
of English at Eastern, who has 
The cost of each course is $525, which includes 21 nights in Univer­sity housing and breakfast each day. Air fare is not included. 
A deposit of $100 is required with each application. For informa­tion or an application, write the Office of International Studies, Eastern Michigan University, Ypsilanti, Mich. 48197, or call (313) 487-2424. 
Professor-Author Speaks onHistory 
Fr. Stanley L. J aki will present an address entitled "On Whose Side is History? Reflections of a Historian of Science'' on Thursday at 8 p.m. in the Library Auditorium. Jaki is one of only six Americans ever selected to give Edinburgh's famous Gifford lec­tures, the others being William James, John Dewey. Josiah Royce, Paul Tillich and Reinhold Niebuhr. 
Distinguished University Profes­sor at Seton Hall University. Jaki holds doctorates in both physics and theology. He is the author of seven books. including The Relevance of Physics and The Road of Science aild the Ways of God. 


Ethics-Energy 
Conference 
A conference on Christian ethics and energy will be held at Notre Dame from March 31 to April 1. Participants will consider the distinctive contributions of Chris­tian ethics to energy-related problems in contemporary society, focusing on the ethics of energy production, decision making. con­sumption and conservation. 
The meeting is cosponsored by Notre Dame's Center for Pastoral and Social Ministry and Center for the Study of Man in Contemporary Society in cooperation with the National Conference of Catholic Bishops' Committee for Human Values. 
Most of the speakers are from the University's faculty. Bishops and Church people from Indiana and neighboring states have also been invited. The conference is open to the public. especially those involved in the energy industry. Reservations should be made with Mrs. Norma Davitt. Center for the Study of Man in Contemporary Society, 283-7212. 

Sessions will be held in the Hayes-Healy Auditorium. College of Business Administration. begin­ning at 8 p.m. Friday. Each session will offer one or more presentations plus an ethical critique or theological reflection. Topics will include: "Can Tllere Be A Christian Ethics About Energy?" (8p.m. Friday. and on Saturday "The Ethics of Production" (9 a.m.). "the Ethics of Decision Making" (10:45 a.m.). "The Ethics of Consumption conservation" (2 p.m.), and a summary session at 
3:45 p.m. 
; 
SMC Summer 

Art Workshop 

Saint Mary's art department, for the third year, is offering a two week summer program at Redbud Rail Camp in Buchanan, MI. The workshop, which is open to any college student, will run from May 22 through June 3. 
The four intensive workshop sessions, for which three credits will be given. are in raku ceramics. printmaking and drawing, and photography. The cost of $310.00 
. covers tuition, room and board for the full twe weeks. Also included is transportation from the Saint Mary's campus to the Redbud Trail Retreat and back. 
. . 
James Paradis; painting and drawing by Sr. Cecelia Ann Kelly; printmaking by Carol Ann Carter and photography by Douglas Tyler. There is a $15.00 additional fee for the ceramics and photography and a $20.00 fee for the printmaking. he working day will be 8:30 a.m. ­12 noon and 1 -4:30 p.m. with an additional hour in the evening for guest lecturers1, discussions and 
films. 
Fuller elected new Dome Editor 
Bill Fuller was elected editor-in-chief 9f the 1979 edition of the Dome, the Notre Dame yearbook. Fuller, a junior from Warren, Ohio, was elected last night by a majority vote of this year's 'Dome, editorial board. 

Enrollment for each class will be limited to ten and applicants will be accepted in order of registration. Interested students should send a $25.00 deposit by Sunday to Gallery Director Michele Fricke at 
Saint  Mary's.  She  is  the  
coordinator of the  workshop  and  
can  be  reached  by  phone  at  

284-5717 or 284-4074. The Redbud Trail workshop 
offers the student a unique opportunity for broadening one's understanding of the concept of natl.H'e in relation to work in a chosen area. It affords students and faculty and opportunity to live together in close harmony with nature. All workshops are structured to provide maximum use of exposure to the immed~ate natural environment. 
l 
f 
Fuller explained that, like the . ,,.-·~ ' yearbooks of the past two years, ~ · 
the 1979 DOME will again carry a ~~\' theme and will be organized in /. .r-sections. He maintains, however, ~ that he wiii work for a slight ··· redefining of the organization of ,-· the sections, "in order to provide a more creative and expressive '· book." In addition, Fuller hopes to carry a more magazine-like format in the written areas of the book. 
Fuiier plans to work in conjunction with the Observer and Scholastic in areas such as the sharing of photos. He has worked on the yearbook for three years and has served as student life editor and sports editor. 







LIFE 

Your college degree will get you started in life after college. Army ROTC will give you a head start while you're still in college. 
Army ROTC offers you manage­ment training. Leadership ex­perience. And a commission as an Army officer. Extra credentials that will set you apart in the job market. 
You'll also earn $2,500 during your two years in advanced ROTC and new career opportunities upon graduation as a leader in the active Army, Reserve or National Guard. 
Here's how to get started: 

EAILYSTAIT 
Start Army ROTC during your freshman or soph­omore year with no obligation. You'll find a curriculum that's exciting and flexible enough to fit your class schedule and academic needs. 


STAll 
If you're a veteran or Junior ROTC graduate, then you're a jump ahead. You're already eligible to enter advanced ROTC.

TIE 
STAll 
If you're about to finish your sophomore year, apply now for our six-week summer Basic Camp at Fort Knox, Ky. You'll earn $450 and the opportunity to enter advanced ROTC next fall. 
For details. contact: 
Major John J. -Mac Neil Room 236 in the ROTC Building or Call 6264 I 6265 I 7332. 
lilY .....
I. 
UH.
• 
···u·.,QfJ~~ U\~ ~~~AP•.~e.-PJ"~l-..:...... ,-_., ..-....~~·~~!~..)~.~~~~~(~!..~~ .•taught.~~ '·' • p ~/*4'tf t~. ·~• ~.••;• ...... ~.• ~.· .• "·' .-• .. , •·· • ·• • ~ • ·, · •­
• 

9 
. ~ ' _...__. 
~ 

wednesday, March 29, !97&______....,tha.....~o
...... ...b~•~•~rv=-=-:::!e~r--9~ 


By construction worJ<ers 
Nine Indiana coal mines shut down 
CHANDLER, Ind. [AP) • With no support from their local president and very little money, Patrick Johns and his fellow construction miners have managed to shut down nine of Indiana's largest coal operations. 
Although the United Mine Workers have ratified ~ new contract with the nation's soft coal operators, the construction miners have not. And until they do, Johns says they are relying on the support of the UMW members who honor their picket lines to keep the mines 
clo~ed. 

Since midnight Sunday. more 
than 1,800 miners have been 
unable to return to work in south­
western Indiana surface mine~ 
because of the pickets. 

For the second straight da). 
pickets closed Amax Coal Co 's 
Ayrcoe, Ayrshire and Wright Mines; both Old Ben Coal Co. mines; and Peabody Coal Co.'s Squaw Creek, Spur and Lynnville mines. Yankeetown Dock, a ship­ping operation jointly operated by A.nax and Peabody, also was idled by construction pickets. 
They also shut down the Lemmons mine at Loogoottee, prompting mine operator Frank Foltz to lay off the 36 UMW members there, according to Lloyd Kinder, president of Local 1955. 

University 
of ~out!> ~en~. The . ~en of + 
Protessor Emer1tus and Mr:; .. Pat-+ 
rick A. McCusker, McCusker is an+ attorney engaged in estate plan-• , nin~,; tax and cor_purate practic~s •• 
-.. 1th an Omaha Ia~ firm. He ts 
president of the Notre Dame Ciub : 
of Omaha-Council Bluffs, a director + 
of College World Series and the + 
Brandeis Foundation. His f<~:ther + 
wa~ a member of the chemistry + 
faculty at Notre Dame for 33 years. + 
Robert F. Chickey of St. Loms, + 
president and chief executive offi-: 
cer of Schroeder & Curry, Inc., has + 
been named to represent alumni in+ 
the Missouri-Iowa area. He is a+ 
member of the Missouri Gover-t 
nor's Advisory Council, a former t 
president of the Notre Dame Club • 
of St. Louis and recipient of its Man • 
of the Year Award in 1969. • The new director for New t England states is George D. Wit-: 
Iiams of Norwell, Mass., president
of a commercial real estate firm. 
He,has been active in Notre Dame 
activities in the Boston area where 
he serves as a member of the 
Massachusetts Bay Transportation 
Authority advisory council and as a 
selectman for his community. 
Anthony Mileto, a 1961 graduate residing in Baltimore, will repre­sent the Mid-Atlantic states. + President of Professional Design : Associates, he has served as senior architect with a consulting firm i designing the Baltimore Rapid Transit System. He is also a former president of the Notre Dame Club and recipient of the Man of the Year Award in Baltimore. 
Frank T. Callahan, Jr. of Tampa, Fl. will represent the Southeast area. The 1950 . graduate is president of Greiner Engineering Sciences and has been active with the Easter Seal Society, Jesuit High School Foundation, Florida Engineering Society and Junior , Achievement. He is a former president of the Notre Dame Club ' "They sa1<1 we could sign up for 
unemployment," Kinder said. 

''We won't be going back until at 
least Tuesday, or whenever the 
construction miners get a con­
tract.'' 

The Four Rivers mine at Lynn­
ville was not scheduled to reopen 
·ntil April 1, said Danny McKin­
ney, president of Local 2080, which represents 23 UMW members there. 
··our backs are to the wall, but I believe in what we're doing," said Johns, a member of Local 1891. ''The bottom line is that we're broke, the bank owns my car and we don't have a contract It's shabby damn shabby that we're in this situation.'· 
John~ said the construction mmers' strategy went into play Saturday night after the contract sending production miners back to work was signed by UMW Presi­dent Arnold Miller. 
• We don't understand why we're in thi& situation," Johns said m a tdephone interview. "We've been out 111 days now and don't have a contract offer " 
Even the news of a temauve settlement wasn't enough to make him drop his plans to picket. Johns pledged he would be out. at the 
mines "until we have a signed contract." 
''My needs are simple, I want to make a living and provide a home for my family. But our national leadership hasn't even produced a 
contract offer we can consider in Jlf2 months. 
One reason could be that five of our nine negotiators in Washington are not construction miners," he 
said. "We don't Iike production miners deciding our fate. But, that's been the policy with our union. Our contracts have been based on the production miners' 
contract. "Our problems and needs are differen. We're a traveling union 
with n.embers going to many mines. We are concerned with travel pay and per diem,'' he adds. ''Those are the things that have contributed to our deciding to 
I Picket." ! Johns and other members of his 500-member local have been opera­ting without the approval of their local nresident, Melvin Whitson, 
who has said he's been telling members not to picket. But they are proceeding, nonetheless. with ­plans to station men at each mine for each of the three shifts 
"We didn't close them all Mon­day, but that's our goal until we get a contract. However, it takes a l~t of time and money for phone calls and gas,'' he remarked. ''And money is something we don't have.'' 


Wind~ hiah seas hamper navy aemolition crews 
BREST* France [AP] -Gale­force winds and high seas prevented navy demolition crews ye~terday from blowing holes in the wrecked supertanker Amoco Cadiz to release the last of its cargo into 
h
t e sea. 
· t ·
Frene h authon tes want to 
release an estimated 5.88 million gallons of oil from the holds to avoid the threat of months of leakage across the poiJuted Brit­
tany coast. The Amoco Cadiz, which sailed under Liberian 
registry with an Italian captiain
carried about 64.7 mil­lion gallons of ·oil when it went a!;cound, making the accident the worst sp:.~1 .n history. 

Alumni Association 
elects six new directors 
Six new directors of the Univer­Named to an At-Large Position coordinated several activities for sity Alumni Association have been on the board, a post restricted to his Notre Dame club, including elected by members of the nation­alumni who have graduated in the career ni~ht, Universal Notre wide organization. They will serve last five years, was Gregory K. Dame Night and tours to the three-year terms and attend a Ericksen, a public accountant with campus. He has also been active in spring meeting on the campus May •ne Arthur -Young and Comp~ny programs of Cathedral High School 
3 to 7. 

firm in Indianapolis. He has in Indianapolis. 
Named to represent the alumni in the central states was Thomas J. ·•••••••••••••••••••,..•••••••••••,.... McCusker, a 1965 graduate rcsid-+ : ing in Omaha and former resident + + 

•

• 
• • • 
• •
:

• 
• • • 

+ + • 
:· 
+ 
t t

OQJy ' + 
a ewc:an t 
make I•t tothe top. 
Becoming a Marine officer is no small task. It demands some of the most rugged physical training th the world. Plus academic proficiency. Military skills. And the unique ability to lead. Only a very few can qualify for Marine officer training. Even fewer can make it. The demands are great, but so are the rewards. It's an exciting, fulfilling ~~~~~ 
career with good pay and benefits. Want to get to the top? Start now. 
LaFortune 

Today through Friday 


9am.-4pm. 
No on-campus training. Officer's Com­
mission upon graduation. 

The Few. The Proud. The Marines. 
ofWest-Fiorida-.-··-·--·------·--·-.,..-.......~~.,..~..,...,..~...............~...........~~_.._...,..,..ttl 
Officials called off efforts to winch down frogmen f~om heli­copters onto the steep, oil-slick bow section of the American-owned vessel. It broke in two after 
ff F
running onto a shoal o ranee's northwest coast March 17 when the steering failed. 
· Continuing heavy swells made it · impossible for the navy experts to try and dynamite the ship's holds from the sea. 
Demolition plans can tor the navy crews to work at low tide, fixing timed plastic charges along 
the hull. These would explode .tt high tide, permitting water to flow in and force out oil still trapped in the holds. 
The chief of the demolition team sa1·d the de··k was too slick and 
.... 
steep and the weather too sever.­for his men· to work safel••· 




fOR fm 
ToTAllY DlffERfNT f 

MA~I~/NES, BooKS, PoSTCR5, JNCENSE., CUS101Y\ 1-S'HJ RTS, :rewE1.J~..£.}, U:AtJ..)~~ ~oo DS AND or»cl(( t:f::d.Jf 5rvFT~ 
~A WfAWj DIFF~rU\ 
$1-\of'PINb 

S"}t.P~R,E'N~~ TR'"{ 13::::Cb1E !! 

1o the observer wednesday, March 29, 1978 
Authorities say 
Dorm fire apparent arson 
VINCENNES, Ind. [AP) • A fire if all the dorm residents had which destroyed the top floor of a returned from vacation. Vincennes University residence Fire Chief William Rose said the hall apparently was the work of fire started in the center of the hall arsonists, authorities said yester­and quickly spread to both ends, day. gutting the top floor and burning 
The State Fire Marshall's office through the roof. The first and was called in to investigate the second floors sustained extensive blaze that broke out around 3:30 water damage, said Barbara 
a.m. yesterday on the third floor of DeBoer, university public relations George Rogers Clark HaJI. The director. exact cause of the fire and the "We don't kn~w if ~he bui1ding extent of damages have not been is a total loss," she said. "It wilt determined. depend on whether it is structurally 
But students noted that there sound.'' had been several trash can fires in The displaced students were the dorm earlier in the week. In moved to available rooms in nearby addition, police Chief James Dalton -dorms and to temporary living disclosed that his office received a quarters set up at the gymnasium call Monday warning that a bemb and physical education complex. would go off in the dorm at 6 a.m. DeBoer said the university made yesterday. arrangements for the dorm 
Two dorm residents, John residents to call their parents to Krieter, 20, of Tippecanoe, and advise them of their safety. In Brian Heck, 18, of Edinburg, addition, she said, the college suffered smoke inhalation but were bookstore and the library have treated and released. placed needed texts on reserve for 
As thick smoice billowed through affected students and the univer­the hall, the dormitory staff made a sity has arranged to make copies of room-to-room search to make sure class notes for them. .all ofthe residents were evacuated. "After all, we're only five weeks 
The dormitory has a capacity of away from the end of school,'' she 510, but only 460 students were said. registered as currently living there. Distribution points have been set 
Classes were scheduled to up for clothes donated by the resume yesterday following the university community for the fire spring break, and it was uncertain victims, she stated. 
More food stamps given; UMW strike, layoffs blamed 
INDIANAPOUS [AP] -The February, when strike-related United Mine Workers strike, electrical curtailments and unem­coupled with related layoffs and ployment reached a peak in seasonal unemployment, forced an Indiana, according to Allen additional 7.300 Hoosiers into the Greene, director of the State Federal Food Stamp program last Welfare Department's Food Stamp month. state welfare officials said Division. Including the miners, yesterday. 2,000 additional households joined 
State Welfare Director Wayne A. the stamp program in February. Stanton said many counties ran low ''But we only had about 400 on stamps and federal officials had mining families in the food stamp to make an emergency shipment of progrm," Greene said. ''It almost $9 million in food stamps basically was a seasonal increase last month. rather than increase because of the 
The value of the February stamp strike. We usually have a seasonal issue was $7.8 million, an increase increase this time of year." of more than $515,000 over January Gibson County, in the heart of 
1978 figures. according to welfare the southern Indiana coal company, statistics. But Stanton said the alone reported an extra 90-100 total number of persons in the households into the program last 
program is still more than 14 month, Green said. percent less than in February of Among other Hoosier mining last year. when 216,033 persons in counties, Vermillion reported an the program collected stamps extre 30-35 persons added to the valued at $8.6 million. program last month; Dubois had 
About 870 striking miners three while Pike had SO. participated in the program in 
Molarity bv Michael Molinelli 
J, ~r V--r·l'' --,..MEOF
v~ J~..,} i '1'J'..-::' 00 i 

.~Y KiNFOLK JN HOBOKEN AEL.-v' JERSEY ._ · -) 
---, 

George Rogers Clark Hall was built in 1968 at a cost of more th $1.25 million. 
Offlcers elected 
The Notre Dame Judo Club recently elected officers for next year. Serving as president and head instructor of the club will be Curt Hench. Mark Cassidy will act as vice-president and assistant instructor. Jim Clayton and Kim Rodier will fill the offices of treasurer and secretary, respec­tively. Tom Loughran will continue as the club's technical advisor. 
During March, Jim Clayton, Joe Kaput and Steve Mangine com­pleted instruction for the first belt rank, the yellow belt, and were promoted. 24 members of the class are continuing to work for their first promotion within the next couple of weeks. while trainers are working to achieve their next rank, the orange belt. 
Beginners are still welcome, and anyone interested should call Curt Hench at 8711 for further information. 
March 28 -Mareb 31 
This Week ~t The 
Career Develop~~ent Center saint Mary' s College 284-4431 
INTERVIEWS lli\TE 
MAJOR DESIRED 

~ 
Winters National Bank & Trust. Fri. March 31 EUsiceoo/AcctjEDgliah/Matb 
• Wa~reen COII!l>"llY Mon. April 3 .\ll ~lajurs 
* 
Veterans Adlninlstration Hospital Tues. April 4 All 'o!ajors 

* 
Clark Equipment Wed. April 5 Buaineso/Computer ScieDOa " GAE Business Services Wed. April 5 All Ma_Jors 


+ McDonald's Corporation Tburs. April 6 All Majors 
Action/Peace Corps/Vista Tues. April 25 All Majors 
• Sign·up atarta TU••~, March 28, 1978 
WOR!ISIIJPS  
IT!'b!  ~  !!!!:  I!ISTRUCTOR  I,OCATION  
Information Gathering & Job Search  Wed. 3/28  7-9 p.m.  Betsy Twitchell  McCandless Pianc Room  
Skill Identification  Thurs.  7-9  Lealie Wilson  Ho~ Cross  
& Resume Clinic  3/30  p.m.  Mary Ann De.~  Parlor  

Open to all Saint Mary•a and Notre Dame students. Please sign up ~or all interY1fta at the crx:, Student A~tairs Wing, 175 LeMans Hall. Call the CDC ~ar the laten information on postponements &.nd cancellattou. 

Carter asked to declare 2 counties disaster area 


INDIANAPOUS [AP] · Citing 
almost $35 million in damage 
during the past two weeks. Gov. 
Otis R. Bowen asked President 
Carter yesterday to declare flood­
ravaged Allen and Adams counties 
in northeastern Indiana a federal 
disaster area. 

Bowen's request came just one 
day after he announced that he had 
declared the two counties a state 
disaster area. 

If Carter grants the request, the 
two counties will be eligilble for 
low-interest federal loans for 
property owners and federal money 
for repairs and replacement of 
uninsured public facilities. 

"This state has experienced serious and substantial damage as a result of flooding of the Maumee. St. Joseph and St. Mary's rivers in Allen and Adams counties,'' Bowen said in a letter to Carter. "This flooding began on March 15, 1978. and has continued through the present date, although the flood waters are slowly receding.'' 
The letter, along with a survey of the flood damage prepared by federal. state and local engineers. was electronically transmitted to Washington. · 
State Civil Defense Director Milton M. Mitnick said it may be as long as two weeks before federal officials respond 
"It could be tonight. it could be tomorrow," Mitnick said. "I've seen them take two weeks and then not give the declaration. But sometimes they grant it within a couple of hours." 
Bowen told Carter the flood waters crested in Adams County on Community disaster, Small Thursday at 8. 7 feet above flood Business Administration and stage and in Allen county the next Farmers Home Administration day at 7.75 feet above flood stage. loans may also be needed. the 
He listed damage at $9.94 governor said. million to public facilities, $24.5 -------------­
million to private property and $230.000 in agricultural losses. The two counties already have spent more than $1 million to cope with the flood, Bowen said, including about $260.000 in state aid. 
The two counties need federal money to restore public facilities. remove debris and assist in temporary housing and repair of uninsured residences. as well as extra food stamp coupons and unemployment assistance. 
need posters in a hurry? 

I
• • 1
•nsty-pr•nls
the wi.z of the printin4l biz! 
1 00 -11 x 17 posters 
only $10.00 203 n. main Downtown So Bend 289-6977 
ahe 
YPinJ_jammer 
CREATIVE HAIR DESIGN FOR THE SEXES 
RElAXING ATMOSPHERE 
FREE HAIR ANALYSIS RK RETAIL CENTER 

1637 LWW So. bend 232-6622 Appt. only. 


N.D. Senior Class Presents: 
An Indoor Football Picnic Thurs.March 30At The 'Pit'of the A.C.C. 
Featured: Highlightsot0ur4Years & All Bowl Games Beer &Mixed Drinks May be Purchased Must Presesnt Sr. /.D. Card Time: Bpm.-12am. dmission $1 
AL,4BAHA­


wednesday, March 29,1978 the observer 11 
Irish fencers repeat Championship 
by Paul Mullaney Sports Writer 

KENOSHA: Wis. -The Notre Dame fencers' second national title wasn't as long in the offing as the first--but the victory tasted just as sweet--p~thaps more. Coach Mike DeCicco's Irish swordsmen cap­tured their second NCAA crown in as many years at the 1978 finals held at Wisconsin-Parkside on March 18. 
Although Irish fencing dates back to 1934, it wasn't until last year that Notre Dame won its first collegiate championship. After 
tying NYU in the 1977 title competition, the Irish finally achieved the long-awaited distinc­tion by winning a fence-off against the Eastern power. 
This year, however, there was no need to worry about a fnece-off to determine the team championship. DeCicco's squad had clinched the title well before the end was near. The Irish finished with 121 points, a safe 11 ahead of runnerup Pennsylvania. Wayne State, Notre Dame's toughest opponent of the regular season, tinished third with 
105. while Clemson had 98. NYU, Maryland and Cleveland State tied for tifth with 97 points. 
The Irish. who had the title "in the bag" according to a few of their loyal followers, had such a secure lead that all the attention focussed upon the individual accomplish­ments of the three du Lac entries. 
Notre Dame's representatives included two defending gold medalists, sabreman Mike Sullivan and foilist Pat Gerard. and epeeist Bjorne Vaggo, who was ranked tenth nationally in Sweden before transferring to Notre Dame this semester. All three were expected to have excellent shots at earning gold medals in their respective weapons. 
Those opportunities were so excellent. in fact. that the Irish came within one touch from ma~ing a clean sweep of the medals. After Gerard had fought from behind to tie Wayne State's Ernie Simon for the foil lead with 19 wins each. the senior from Norridge. Ill.. suffered a 5-4 setback to Simon in a fence-off bout and settled for second place. 
Sullivan and Vaggo had already captured gold medals, giving Gerard the chance to make Notre Dame the first team to ever win all three medals, according to former Irish fencing coach Walter Lang­ford. 
Vaggo won with a heart stopping performance. The competition ended with Vaggo, Penn's Chris Hanson and San Jose State's Peter Schifrin knotted at 19 bouts apiece. A tense fence-off followed to determine the gold medalist. The overtime bouts were caused by Vaggo' s S-4 loss to Hanson in the tina] encounter of the regular competition. 
Schifrin and Hanson began the fence-off, with the Penn epeeist capturing the very active bout, 4-5. Vaggo then took to the strip against Schifrin in what turned out to be the longest and most pressure­packed bout of the tournament. 
The Swedish transfer masterfully laid back, trying to lull Schifrin out of his vigilant stance. The normal time allotment had long expired before either fencer showed any sign of aggression. Finally, with the audience intently stifled after what seemed to be at least ten minutes of anxiety, Vaggo moved in for the tirst and final touch to win 
the bout. Both swordmen having de­
feated Schifrin, Vaggo and Hanson 
tangled in the final fence-off bout, with the winner receiving the goldmedal. Although Vaggo seemed to be applying the same dela
Y
t t · th 1 
s ra egy m e ear Y moments of the tight, action picked up as the intensity grew. With the count tied at 4-4 after regulation time, Vaggo put the final touch on Hanson, 
· th 1 h' h d th 

avengmg e oss w IC rna e e
entire fence-off necessary. 
From the outset, there was little doubt that Sullivan was going to 
medal. In his undefeated assistant coach, Ed DeVivo, for performance of 23 bouts, he served being the top coach in the countrv. more as a clinician than a DeVivo works strictly with the competitor. The three-time sabre team. All-American was also honored by "You can't argue with results receiving the Michigan State like that," said DeCicco, the Memorial trophy, given annually to 17-year mentor who triples as a the top sabre performer. Professor of Mechanical Engineer-
Many spectators watched in ing and the athletic academic awe as the junior from Peabody, counselor. "Sully's record has to Mass., known as "the machine" by say something about Ed's coach-Irish fencing loyalists, disposed of ing." Sullivan finished the regular one foe after another. season with a 41-0 mark, making 
"He absolutely dominated the him Notre Dame's all-time top weapon,'' noted DeCicco of fencer with a career mark of 141-2. Sullivan's performance. "He beat Believe it or not, DeVivo, in his the top of the field, every last year at Notre Dame's Law All-American in sight. It was the School, received five votes in the best fencing I've seen since Peter Coach of the Year ballotting, which Westbroo~ (NYU,197~~ went un-was won by Penn's David defeated m the fina~s. Micahnik. 
.Because of S';llhvan's .accOfr!· . Sullivan insists naturally, that it phshments, DeCtcco cred1ts h1s 1s not the end of Notre Dame's 
Frank LaGrotta 
sword regime. "Winning it two 
years in a row is a lot better than 
winning it once," enthused 
Sullivan. "But my goal is to make 
it three straight. 
"I~m ama~ed thatl went through the fmals wtthout a loSs. My best bout was against (Clemson's Steve) Renshaw. I was down 3-1 in that one." 
DeCicco puts it right on the line when he says, "The only copetition decent for Mike might be in ~oscow." Sullivan's ultimate goal 1s to make the United State Olympic fencing squad in 1980. 
"Last year we were lucky to win the national title," submitted DeCicco. "But all three of our entries proved to everyone that there was little luck involved this time around. They were outstanding in the tourney. All th~ee fenced magnificently, and mirrored that talent which we had on the whole team." 
DeCicco was expecially prouu of Gerard, who entered the last of three davs of action in third place, and surged to gain a tie for first "Gerard was most impresstv~ today," said DeCicco at a post-tourney celebration. "Only one touch caused him from winning the eold medal. He fenced with determination, . and I couldn't be too disappomted with him for not winning the medal." 
DeCicco won't be disappointed too many times in the future if his fencers display the same type of determination that was exhibited here at Parkside. That determina­tion just may be enough for the start of a fencing dynasty. 
=====================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================::================================================= 
Some Things I Think 

If you'd have seen his face when the buzzer sounded on Saturday, you'd have no doubt. Still, th.ere were no exc'-!sed, no complaints ...nothing but praise -praise for the wmners and for h1s own team. 
"Duke played with-the -in.t~nsity that we lacked," Digger admitted afterwards. ''They have a greafball team. As for us, I am not ashamed of the way we played. I am not ashamed of the way-we lost .... 
Notre Dame, on balance, played good basketball in St. Louis. Good enought, in most cases to win a ball game or two. But things didn't quite turn out that way. 
But, like I said, Notre Dame has a lot to be proud of. 
As I stood outside the locker room after the loss to Duke I overheard a reporter comment, ''You'll never find a group of guys classier than Notre Dame. and you'll never find a coach classier than Digger Phelps." 
I thmk that speaks well for all of us ... for what we try to accomplish at Notre Dame. 
Certain scenes reflect the class Notre Dame exhibited in St. Louis; -J.!andy Haefner pushing his way past another secunty guard to wish the Duke players good luck ... -Digger Phelps joking with Arkansas guard Ron Brewer at the press confer~nce after Brewer's at-the-buzzer shot sent Digger home with two losses m two .games ... 
-Duck Williams, who just saw his last chance to win an NCAA title fade away, standiq.g before 200 reporters and tell them "Duke has a great ball club ... we have no excuses, you can't take anything away from them. 
Clearly, Notre Dame, despite an illustrious winning tradition, knows 
how to lose, more so, perhaps, than some teams know how to win. I think that savs a lot. 
CLASSIFIED a a ADS a a 
Ted Twardzlk, 
Thanks for making our TV debot such a smashing success. We 11peclally liked the pants and the tea. For the rest of the 
PERSONALS Autles, we wish you cheese and onions always. Ruttlly, Stlg and Nasty Dear Tony and Staff.... Congratulations and best wishes for a Renee and Joan, very rewarding production year ahead. Thanks for the gormet dinner. You two 
Love, are the greatest. Love peace and granole, Mom Frank 
You can get more with a smile and a Lisa Campagna ­squezze than with just a smile. I love you ots, cutie! Forever, Chris Squire Haircuts. styles. trims, CHEAP!!! SMC 
Betsy, 4530. He-She who squezes Saturday, squeezesbest. 
TYPING DONE 
Killer Bob,
REASONABLE RATES 
Call8086 I missed you at Easter. Can I still be your bunny? You can play with my cotton Overeaters anonymous is meeting now on tail while I nibble at your carrot. 1 love 
you.
campus. Call 289-6021 for a time and place. A. G. 
Bill Janice and Sue -
Snuggley,Thank you for a wonderful week. I mis Thanks for the good time in Atlant:> 
Signed,you already. Love, always 
I> ' ,onk

Upper Class Twit PS: X-Mas It shall be. 271 days to E-Day. Free to gOOit ltoml: 2puppies r Jflle and 
boxer mix) fhmiM'Im....). c·,fl 272-2520 A squeeze in time save nl·ne. after 3 pm. 
HaP,PY birthday to the best "Scoutmas-Bring your main SQI'"...ze. Beaux arts ter 'around.!! I love you. ball, 1 April, '78 Ar .I Fool's Day. 
___ .. ) 

their game with Arkansas and a few of us missed the team bus to the Checkerdome. We finally convinced the hotel car to take us to the arena for a small fee and when we arrived we were greeted by two burly security guards who informed us that no one could get into practice without a pass. 
Two of us showed our press passes and were allowed to go through the gate but the other three people (none of whom had passes) were told that "God himself wasn't going through that gate without a pass." Assurances from the team managers that the three were fnembers of the official party did no good and it appeared that they weren't going to get in until ~igger himself noticed the commotion and walked over. He calmly explamed that we were all members of the party and we had permission from the NCAA to watch practice. Ifyou can believe it, the security guard still refused to let them in. 
Well, the guard finally yielded but the whole incident struck me as rat~er funny. You just don't expect people who enjoy throwing their wetght around to be associated with something as prestigious as the NCAA Basketball Tournament. 
I think all the people who call Notre Dame fans obnoxious should take 
noteof Kentucky fans who wear obscene tee-shirts and throw things on the court. I have been to many Notre Dame basketball games, both home and away, and I have yet to see an Irish fan throw something on the court while the game is in progress to protest a bad call by the official. And while we're on the subject... 
I think the NCAA should do a better job selecting officials for their 
. _championship tournament. When I say this I am in no way suggesting that Notre Dame lost because of the referees whistle. I am not making ~xcuses. ~ do think, howeye~, in a game where the national championship 1s on the hne that the offic1attng should be more consistant than what I say last weekend. I think Notre Dame can be proud of their performance in St. Louis. It's not easy to lose. If you were disappointed on Saturday, imagine how 14 players felt. They bust their guts for seven months and lose in squeaker. I was there and I didn't envy any one of them. And what about the coaches? Some people thought Digger was satisfied to be in the Final Four -that he didn't care about winning the title. 
If you saw his office lights burning past midnight every night last week 
NOTICES LOST AND FOUND 
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND Student Loans, $20-150. Due in thirty 

FOUND: One gold erring for non-pierceddays. One percent interest charges per ear between Arch. Building and Sorinmonth. M-F, 11:15-12:15, LaFortune before break. Call 1161.
basement. Set of two large keys found before break.
Bus service to Chicago every Friday. 

Call Observer office to identify.
Buses leave the circle at 6:05 for tickets and info call Shep, 8330. 

LOST: One Texas Instruments calculator in or near LaFortune on the Wednesday
Hitz unlimited 50th anniversay celebra­before spring break. Reward offered ...

tion today. Don't miss it. 

call 233-7213. 
Will do typing. Neat, accurate. 

LOST: Cross pen·pencil set before break.
Call:287-5162. 

Sentimental value. Reward. Please call John Murphy 289-8643.
Dissertations, manuscripts etc....typed. IBM Selectric II. Linda's Letters. 

287-4971. 
NEED QUALITY TYPING?? Executary 
Inc., Professional Typing Service, IBM 

Correcting Selectrics. Call 232-0898 WANTED 
"When you want the best." 

Weekend householder for loacvl half-way house. Small salary plus room and board. Overnight stay is required. Excellent 
FOR RENT experience for persons interested in working in mental health field. For further information plaease contact 234­1049.
Fine house in good neighborhood (Port­

age and Angeles area). Reasonable rent. 
For 4-5-6 students. Contact Joseph Will trade two center section bleacher 
Gatto 234-6688 seats to Jackson Brown and ""~ for two 
' · padded seats. Ken. 8266. ­Furnished, entirely carpeted 4-bedroom house. $80 per person. Gas and electric Need tutors In basic English and Basic not incluced. 438 Harrisson, one block Math. Available between the hours of
th f 8 30 d 4 30 M d th Frld
sou o Julio's on LWW. Call 288-7894. : an : on ay ru ay.
Hourly pay. Call for Interview appoint­
5 and 6 bedroom furnished houses for ment. Project Effect, IUSB, 237-4491. 
rent this summer and fall. Walking 
distance to campus. Nice. Call 232-3815 $100 plus a week mailing circulars!!! 
after 5:00. Materials supplied, Immediate Income Guaranteed! Rush stamped adressed 
One immed1"ate vacancy 1·n two bedroom I t H k 2909-4DE 
enve ope o : omewor er,
house in Niles. Share $180 per mo. rent. Pinetree, Hernando, MS. 38632. 
Modern furnished, kitchen, free laundry. Call Joe. 684-0281. 

wa~ ..away wiU1· -the· .sabre· gQld ~-·iiliiill;iiliiill;iiiiiiii;;iiiiiiiii;;;;iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii;ii---------------...;=~,,_~-~,.~..,..~-~-;;_;;;;;_;__;.~-;:;-~_;_~,_~...,.~--~-~,..;:;·.. =~-~-~-;__;_~-~-~_;_:::;:::;:::;=~ 
~--------------------------------~--------------------------~~------------
Wemesday, March 29, 1978 
12 the observer 
Digger's dream ends at Final Four 
r!1 

by Pnl Stevenson .: -~. -r Sports Writer fti··· . ·. 
ST. WUIS-Missourl-"It's a coach's drnm to get to the 6nal four, maC: · thanks to 14 great kids, that dream has come tnae," Notre Dame Head Coach Digger Phelps commented, After his Irish cagers had thrashed DePaul iD the Midwest Regional Championship Game. 
That victory over the Blue their first trip to the prestigiousDemons sent Notre Dame to the 
Final Four. 

final four for the first time in the 
Tripucka, Branning, Corzine,
history of the University. 
Rick Wilson and Gary Garland Yes, the Irish established several 
were named to the 1978 Midwest 
records during their 1977-78 cam­
Regional All-Tournament Team 
paign and reaching St. Louis was 
after the contest. In addition,
just another landmark. After Notre was named
Tripucka Most Valu­
Dame dominated Houston in the 
able Player for his efforts in the 
opening round of the tournament, first three games.the Irish looked to be one of the 
But, from that point on, the 
hottest teams in the NCAA. But, 
Irish's fortunes were to fall apart.
they still had to get by the infamous 
In the semi-final contest in the 
second game, something Phelps 
Checkerdome, a national television 
had never before accomplished as a 
audience watched the Duke Blue . 
head coach. 

Devils down the Irish on Holy
Thus, on St. Patrick's Day in 
Satuday, 90-86. 

Lawrence, Kansas, the Irish broke 
The contest see-sawed back and 
theit streak of four straight second 
forth for the first 15 minutes, but in 
round losses, defeating the Uni­
the final five minutes before inter­
versity of Utah, 69-56. The Irish 
mission, the Blue Devils out-scored 
were not as flashy as they were in 
the Irish 16-4. The previous games
the opening round, but they per­
in the tournament, the Irish used 
formed consistently en route to 
their depth to their advantage and 
victory. 

padded their lead towards the end 
The Irish shot SO percent from 
of both periods, but this time, the 
the field in the contest, while the 
situation was reversed. Mite 
Utes found the range on 43 percent 
Gminski's rebound goal at the 
of their shots. Kelly Tripucka and 
buzzer gave Duke a commanding
Dave Batton lead Notre Dame with r
43-29 advantage at halftime. . .·_.··' ::· .. •"'•······--~~"·
20 and 15 points, respectively. Jeff 
The Irish had their work cut out A host of Irish and Razorback players wait The final ~nee went to Arkansas, 71-69. 
Judkins paced the Utes with 16 
for them, but many Notre Dame [photo by Brother Charles McBride]
markers while Danny Vranes added enthusiasts were that
hopeful a­
Devils, the highest percentage free could only be looked at for next purpose. nuuJ Lt:am~ wc::re eli­
14. 

nother Marquette comeback was in 
throw shooting team in the country, year. Yet, there was still one more minated from the tournament, so
"At the start of the season 
we the making. Although there was a 
hit 32 of 37 free throws in the game to play, the consolation why have them participate in
had three goals,'' Phelps recalled. 
late surge, that event never oc­
contest. The Irish had only 17 matchup against Arkansas. another game, a contest most
''First, we wanted to get everybody 
curred. 

shots from the charity stripe and The first half was mostly Notre would like not to play.
through the first semester aca­
Notre Dame kept tcying to chip 
connected on 14. Dame, with the Irish enjoying as "Win or lose, I just don't like a
demically. -Second, we wanted to 
away at the lead, but Duke would 
"Obviously, we are disappointed much as a ten point bulge. consolation game," Phelps em­
receive a bid to the NCAA tour­Fmally with
keep coming back. 

in losing, but we are not dis-However, a surge by the Razor­phasized. "It isn't fair to the kids
nament and third, we wanted to go 
3:55 remaining in the game and appointed in the way we lost," backs before intermission, in which or the teams. It you're Notre..,........
farther in the tournament than we 
Duke leading 80-66, the-Irish made 
Phelps stressed. "Duke showed the Hogs out-scored Notre Dame you're opponent isn'tjust playing
ever had before. We've achie_ved 
a last ditch attempt. 

why they belonged in the Final 18-4, put Arkansas up at Halftime, consolation game, their juiced
all three of those goals now and I 
The Irish maintained their ag­Four. They played with a lot of 40-36. because they're playing Notre
told the players, whatever else we 
gressiveness and some fancy intensity and enthusiasm in the Notre Dame was unable to gain Dame."
do from here on is just gravy.'' 
shooting by Duck Williams and first half. This is a great moment the lead again but tied the contest Yes, for a season that was
Yes, Notre Dame had escaped 
Tracy Jackson brought the Irish for them, one the Duke players can at 69 with 14 seconds left in the successful. it's sad to see it
the second round jinx, but they 
within two, 88-86, with 20 seconds be proud of." game when Jackson hit a 16 foot with two defeats. But one must
were not finished. There was more 
left in the game. Notre Dame then 
"We did a lot of good things, we shot from the right side. proud of the fact that of the 21
"Gravy" to come. The Irish had a 
called for a time. Play resumed 
just did them too late. I thought we The Irish then called time out to Division I teams competing
rematch with DePaul, the team that 
and on the inbounds pass, Stan played well." set up some defensive strategy, but those final positions, Notre Dame
dealt Notre Dame their only home 
Wilcox and Williams combined for 
Duke Head Coach Bill Foster was in the final ten seconds, Ron was one of the Final Four. 
a wide
loss of the season, a 69-68 thriller a steal and Williams took certainly not dissatified in the final Brewer took the ball down court for "It's been the greatest year
in overtime. 

open 22 foot shot from the left wing 
score, but the ultimate goal took a the Hogs. With time running out, the history of Notre Dame basket­
But, this time around, the Irish 
that would not fall with 18 seconds long tim~ to achieve. Brewer hit a 30 foot shot to give ball," Phelps stated. "Years from
would not be outdone. Notre Dame 
remaining. Duke hauled down the 
"I'd like to give Notre Dame Arkansas the game. now when people are in a bar
only shot 46 percent from the field, 
rebound and with nine seconds left 
credit for stopping the clock at the ''They won it with one of the talking about who went to the final
but the Irish dominated the boards 
Branning fouled John Harrell, who 
end," Foster commented. They toughest shots in basketball," four, these kids will have a lot of
and completely shut down De­
sand both ends of a one and one to 
stopped the clock so much I was Phelps remarked. "They had ten stories to telL Our kids have made
Paul's big man, Dave Corzine. The 
give Duke their finaj 90-86 margin 
about ready to send for a mechanic. seconds and he was guarded b_y a great contribution to Notre Dame
contest was close for the entire first of victory. 
It wouldn't move for us and they Hanzlik. He hit a million dollar Basketball.''
half, but a Tripucka tip-in at the 
In the contest, Notre Dame shot 
would score all the time. We were shot. It's like Jack Nicklaus While it's tough to be knocked
buzzer gave Notre Dame a 37-33 47 percent from the field, 
com­
playing a little bit nervous, but the needing an eagle to win, and out in the end, the experience of
lead at intermission. The Demons pared to 55 percent for the Blue 
clock ran out just about the right pulling out a seven iron the whole affair is invaluable. In
threatened throught the second Devils. The Irish out-rebounded 
time for us." hooking it around the trees and addition, this year's basketball
half, but consistent play and ex­
Duke 37-34 and hit seven more After that defeat, all of Notre putting it in the cup. •• team achieved something that
cel1ent free throw shooting earned 
field goals, but the difference in the Dame's preparatjpn had come to an Although the game had some Notre Dame cage teams have been
Notre Dame a 84-64 triumph and 
game was at the gift line. The Blue end. The National Championship excitement, it did not have a sttiving for for 80 years.
Fran k LaGrotta
·========================================================================================================== 
Kentucky celebrates NCAA title
Some Things I Think 
with 13,000 Wildcat supporters 
=================:====================::======================:=====================================================================
====: Sf. Lou is LEXINGTON, Ky. [AP) -An get that ready," Hagan said, the war of words between propo­
I sat in front of my typewriter for hours last night and tried to come up 
estimated 13,000 fans packed into pointing to the banner, "but it's nents and opponents of a Ken­
with a clever way to say a few things I think should be said. I guess I Memorial Coliseum here and hun­gonna look awfully good hanging in tucky-Louisville basketball series. wasn't feeling very clever. So, without being cute, and at the risk of 
dreds more clamored outside as Rupp Arena." "It's been tremendous working
sounding like I'm eating sour grapes, (which I can assure you I'm not) Kentucky's NCAA basketball Gov. Julian M. Carroll led a with these young guys,'' Hall said, here are some things I think: champions were feted with cheers, parade of dignitaries reading reso­before introducing each of the 14 I think the NCAA Tournament is a bit overrated. chants and official proclamations lutions and proclamations. players. "You know what they are 
When I was a little younger and a lot more impressionable, I would Tuesday night. on the floor, but I know they're
"Today, we declared this day as
watch the championship game on television every year. (I believe they even better off the floor."
•'This is the prettiest sight I've Thanksgiving Day," Carroll said.
called it ''The Johnny Wooden Show" then.) Boy, those games sure "Ifyou've grown up in Kentucky 
ever seen," said athletic director "Where else would a team arrive at
looked exciting with the bands, banners, cheerleaders and arenas full of 
and know what Kentucky basket­
Cliff Hagan, who, as a member of an airport at four in the morning
screaming fans. I guess that's one reason I looked forward to going to St. ball is, you can understand the
Kentucky's 1951 national cham­and be greeted by 10,000 fans."
Louis last weekend. After all, I had a great time at the regionals in 
pressures,'' he said. 

pions, enjoyed a similar reception He then proclaimed March 28 to
Lawrence, Kansas the weekend before and I thought if you can have a He then took a parting shot at
in the same arena. April 4 as Wildcat Week in
great time in Lawrence, Kansas... well, what would St. Louis be like? sportswriters who covered the St.
Kentucky.
Maybe I expected too much;l something like the Super Bowl or a World ''This basketball team will re­
Louis tournament. Championship Fight ...something unique. member this for the rest of their Coach Joe Hall drew a standing ''The sports media in St. Louis Sorry, folks, but the NCAA let me down. lives," Hagan said. "I would like ovation as he remarked on the questioned us on whether we have I think whoever assigns teams to hotels should be forced to spend a to welcome you to the basketball tournament in St. Louis, where the fun," Hall said. ''Notre Dame night at the Rodeway Inn Downtown where the Notre Dame team stayed. capital ofthe world and home ofthe Wildcats defeated Duke, 94-88, the which lost both its final games had The NCAA assigns the winning teams from each of the four regions to a 1978 NCAA champions." night before. fun in St. Louis. I was a Kentuckydifferent hotel and while Mideast-Champion Kentucky enjoyed plush A huge paper banner reading ''There are two things that make fan before I was a coach and I sun •mdings (complete with indoor fountains) at Stouffers, the Notre "NCAA Champions 1978" hung me very happy," Hall said. "We wouldn't have tolerated a team Damt oarty suffered with cold showers, broken heaters and hard from the ceiling. It was modeled won that national championship on representing my state that wanted mattres.· !S. after four permanent blue felt Indiana's floor. And then I learned to have fun instead of winning.I think ~-.me ofthe people associated with the tournament should take a banners hanging in the coliseum that it's Wildcat Day in Louisville." "I was also asked if the pres­quickie course in common courtesy. Never before have I encountered so and in Rupp Arena, where the He was referring to the Checker­sures might cause me to resign if many people who seem to go out of their way to give others a hard time. Wildcats now play their home dome floor, which was shipped we won the championship. And I Case in point: games, to ·mark Kentucky's from Assembly Hall at Indiana said I might blow my mind and Notre Dame w~ scheduled to practice at 1 p.m. Sundav afternoon for prt=vious championships. University, one of Kentucky's bit­resign and become a sports[coatlaaed oa p. 11] "We didn't have much time to terest tivals in ~nt years. and writer." 





