
--------~----------------------------~--~ 
Summit agreement pleases Carter 
WASHINGTON £AP]-President Andrei A. Gromyko. Carter told Congress last night that The support of Jordan and Saudi the Camp David agreement has Arabia are considered vital to the transformed "this impossible outcome of the U.S.-Ied peace dream" of Middle East peace into a drive. realistic expectation, and said he is One of the two · agreements sending Secretary of State Cyrus negotiated at Camp David en­Vance to seek support for the visions Jordan playing a prominent accord from Jordan and Saudi role in shaping a negotiated settle­Arabia. ment for the West Bank of the 
Carter went in triumph to a joint Jordan River. But King Hussein session of the House and Senate, 
has made no statement on the took their cheers and applause and summit accords. saying he wants to then presented his Camp David studv them first. negotiating partners, Egypt's An­F;om the start. the United war Sadat and Israel's Menachem States. Egypt. and Israel have all tried to get Hussein to join in peace
Begin. In turn, they stood to receive the talks. He has held out for a ovation of the leaders of American 
commitment from Israel to with­government. draw from the West Bank. That Prime Minister Begin and Presi­territon· was controlled bv Jordan 
dent Sadat flanked Mrs. Carter in 
from t948 to 1967. when ii was lost the front row of the House gallery. to Israel in the Six-Day War. reserved for the president's family Hussein must decide if Israel's promise to end its military occupa­
and guests. tion. while keeping security forces
Carter said there has not been on the West Bank. is acceptable.

peace between Egypt and a free Oil-rich Saudi Arabia. mean-Jewish nation for more than 2.000 
while. bankrolls the Egyptian enm-• • • 
World reaction to Summit
years. ''If our present expectations omy. It also is considered the are realized. this year we shall see spiritual center of the Moslemsuch peace agai~. ''the president conditions entailed in the settle­
world. lAP] the Palestinians. the Golan Heights
said.. · k" K-g Israelis popped open wine bot-ment. I will find it hard to accept."
A kev problem m see mg 1 --and the dignity of Egypt in return 
In a nationallv broadcast and Khalid:s support is likclv to be the 11cs and Egvpttans revcl~d m what he said.There was also potential
for a handful of sand in the Sinai."
televised report o.n the agreements . · . . thcv saw as Anwar Sadat s success political trouble at home for Sadat
lad of agreement on the future of · . . .. Hard-line Syria's state-run Damas­
reached during the IJ-dav summit at Camp Dav1d. but poltllc1ans and because of the growing gap be­
JcrusaIem. Thc old Arab quartcr d" . . cus Radio sounded the same theme 
conferenn• at his retre~t in the of the citv fell to Israeli forces in the or marv people m both ~ountncs tween Egypt and the Arab world.
and called Sadar's actons "capitu­
Maryland mountains. Carter said J%7 war. seemed perplexed_ about JUSt how American officials in Wahington ·
lation." 
.

Vance will leave on Tuesdav for . close peace rcallv 1s. confirmed that Egypt's foreign
Bcammg. Carter told Congress A b · ld h · there was silence in
But two
talks with Jordan·s King Hu-ssein that a peace treaty between Egypt 1n 11lC ra wor I c reactiOn minister. Mohammed I. Kamel.
important corners of the Middle
and King Khalid of Saudi Arabia. and Israel is to be concluded within ranged from rage to silence. has resigned. apparently in protest
East--Jordan. key to an eventual
He said Vance's goal is "to three months from Sunday night. Mo!->cow wa!'> sharply negative. and of the Camp David developments.
peace on the Israeli-occupied West 
secure their support for the realiza­He glanced up at Begin and Sadat Wc!->tcrn European leaders cau-But the man-in-the-street in
Bank of the Jordan River, and
tion of the new hopes and dreams a~ he did so. tioncd against over-optimism. Cairo seemed Jess unsure that
Saudi Arabia. influential controller
of the people of the Middle East... Thcv smiled and nodded at each ''Oh. Allah. bring down your Sadat was pursuing the right path.
of Egypt. Syria and other poorer
other.. and joined in the applause wrath on the head uf Sadat...curse ·'The Syrians and the PLO can goVance plans to stop in Jordan Arab states.
from the House floor. the Egvptians.thcy have sold us for knock their heads against thebefore going to Saudi Arabia. 
The Camp David documents
Carter concluded his 32-minutc a handfull i1f dollars, .. wailed an wall.·· said merchant Amir Sol­Officials said the trip will be a brief envision. after further negotiations
report by sa~·ing that as a Chris-old 1\'\llllitn in a Palestinian refugee iman.
one and that Vance intends to over the Sinai Peninsula. the 
return in time to hold strategic tian. he offered the words of Jesus camp ncar Beirut. Lebanon. Israeli-Egyptian The Soviet news agency Tass. in
signing of an

to the two Middle Eastern Leaders: Declared the Palestinian news a harsh attack on Sadat, said thearms limitation talks Fridav in New agcnc~· WAFA: "The traitor Sadat peace treaty within three months. Egyptian leader had "betrayed"York with Soviet Foreign .Minister 
£continued on page 3] has sold all the sacred territories. But the "framework" for an overall 
his fellow Arabs and had acceptedMideast peace ·leaves unresolved 

the dictates of Israel and Washing­such key issues as the future of the Palcsiinian-populated West Bank. ton.

Lounge residents voice housing 
In Europe. the British and West Begin. the "hawk" of old. 

German governments were amongsuddenly had the support of the the first to issue statemellts, both opposition Labor Party and Israel's underlining Carter's warning that


complaints to Student Body VP 
"Peace 'Now" movement. But one there are difficult problems ahead. 
of his own Cabinet members. 
The anti-Sadat invective among

Commerce Minister Yigal Hurvitz. a
the Arabs is expected to reach b~ Mike Brad~ signaled trouble ahead ~·hen Begin crescendo tomorrow. when leaders 

seeks the Parliament's agreement of the PLO.syria and the other to pull Israeli settlements out of the 
"Steadfastness Front"· 

Sinai Peninsula. as Egypt de­nations--Algeria. Libya and SouthLa'>t night. in the Flanncr Pit. 
mands. 
Yemen--gather for a mini-summitStudent Body Vice Presi­"If this is truly one of the in Damascus.

dent Mike Roohan held a meeting dc'>igncd to give Grace and Flanncr fre'>hmen an opportunity to air 

SMC Founder's Day
their gripes about the current housing situation. The meeting wa'> attended b~· about 35 students. 
heads Board agenda
The '>tudcnts' complaints mainly by Margie BrassU Standards Committee -Susie glock­involved the housing department's ner, Curriculum Committee -Hil­

Saint Mary's Founder's Day was aire Thomas, Library Committee ­plans to move the students out of 
the main issue on the agenda at the Missy Cannon and Teresa Braun,the study lounges they are now in 
board of Governance meeting last freshmen arc alrcadv well settled 
night. Sophomore Class President Admissions and Scholarship Com­in the study halls.. thus making 
and into other dorms. Most of the 
Adri Trigiani and Vice President mittee -Cathy Barker and Jean Ellen the co­
Ramker. Cultural Affairs Commit­

moving difficult. Mary Maccip are 
chairpersons for the event. Media tee -Joan Skelly and Beth Cutter, The students who have already coverage is planned for Monday, Teacher's Education Committee ­
moved out have encountered ma.ny Michelle Eddington, Food Commit­
Oct. 12. to emphasize Saint Mary'sproblems. For example. no bank 135-year heritage. tee -Mary Laverty, Debbie Dahr­will allow ihe students to open 
Founder's Day is Oct. 14 and will ling. Trish Premozic, Kathy Mur­accounts without a permanent ad­
be an aU-day event culminating phy,.Flo Nash. Ann Monaghan and dress. Also. some students have 
with a special dinner and dessert Sue Ursitti. 
already bought refrigerators. car­The new Ad Hoc Speaker's
prepared by the dining hall. The 
pets. and furniture with their Freshmen living in Flanner and Grace Hall study lounges are still Series Committee consists of two
dinner will begin at 4:30 p.m. and 
roommates and are now being split wondering if their room situation is permanent. Mike Roohan, students, Mary Joan Ptacin and
dessert will follow at 5:45 p.m. in 
up. Laundry cards and bags must Student Body Vice-President, met with students last night to hear Cynthia Rutledge. two teachers,
the Angela Athletic Facility. Dr. 
be completely changed due 10 the their opinions. [Photo by Doug Christian] Dean rice and Dr. Bambenek, and
Larry Stewart will show a specialchange of address. All of this adds The fact that the towers students out to make room for more study slide presentation comparing the three members of Student Govern­to the fact that much of their study 
ment, Kathy sweeney, Julie Pope,time is taken up by these problems. 
thought that they would be getting space. Many of those present at past and present with a surprise 
permanent housing when they the meeting claimed that there is look into the future Saint Mary's. and Mary Beckman. Many of the students expressed signed their housing contract was adequate study space now. Some Special events of the day will Other issues discussed were the content with the present conditions also brought up during the meet­pointed out that the large study include hall banners, with a main possibility of shuttle bus passes for and expressed concern that new ing. lounge on the first floor is never banner across the avenue leading students and the "hot line" which 
arrangements might not be so The students had met with crowded and always quiet. It was to the campus. A display will be went into effect today. The hot line good. Doug Tracey, a freshman Edmund Price. director of Hous­also brought up that the penthouse set up in front of the library is a number for students who wish living in a study lounge. said "If ing. the previous night and were had never been opened and would featuring art and artif;lcts from the to voice opinions or give sugges­they do move you, you're stuck. told they were supposed to have be ideal for a study lounge. college's past. six girls will dress tions to the student government. They don't seem to care where they received a lettl!r over the summer Roohan listened attentively to in costumes the entire day which The office will be manned Mondays send us. We have no say where or notifying them that they would be the students' gripes and promised will represent the six generations through Thursdays from 3·9 p.m. ·wjth whom we move in." in temporary hQusing when they that he would see what could be of Saint Mary's history. A special to answer calls. the office number 
,Rich Laski, a ·resident" who is arrived at· Notre Dame. The done to correct the situation, memorial handmade rug will also is 5373. already scheduled to move out, students said they never received starting immediately. He said that be raffled off. Also, students may now cash 
says the uncertainty of where the letter. Also, they were told at he hoped that he could make the In other business, appointments checks at the dining ball . OJl others·will be living in the future is the time of their arrival on campus current housing situation perm­that were made by the Student Saturday nights, except duriDa what is most upsetting. "We're in that their housing would be tempo-. anent at least until the end of the Government to the Standing Com­football weekends. There il a SS limbo, we can't plan our lives" he rary, but only for 1-2 weeks.' semester. The students are to mittees of Academic Affairs Coun­muimum and S.IO fee and a Sabat 
The students are being moved meet with Price again on Sunday. cil were announced: Academic Mary's ID must be praeated.
says. 
.... 

--------------------------~~----~----·'--------------------------------------------------------------~ 


Tuesday, September l9, 1978
L_tbe_ observer ___ 
r-News Briefs _____ 
t======-===:=======::----~:-:-==-= Nationa) 
Meany raps in_flation plan 
ATLANTIC CITY, N.J. IAPI-AFL-CIO President George Meany said yesterday that workers would be victims of employer-enforced wage controls under the Carter/Administration's proposed plans to combat inflation. Meany said he is convinced that the program. reportedly to include voluntary wage and price guidelines would pen;olize the victims of inflation because it could not guarantee a bala lcing slowdown in rising prices. 
. 

Summit comments 
WASHINGTON IAPI -Democratic and Republican leaders of Con~rcss credited President carter yesterday with an histori-: dipl•~matic: breakthrough in the Middle East. but cautioned that mu·~ 1 v.ork remains .f lasting pcac;e is to be achieved. Sena•e Democratic leader Robert Byrd of West Virginia called the Camp ~)avid agt cements '·among the most significant achie' ements · n modern d.p)omaLic l.istory" and said the credit belongs to Cartet. Hon;e Republican kat:ler John hodes. R-Ariz .. accords a Republican staup of .tpproval uf sOJ1s. praising carter for "courage and detnrninat.on" and saying: "The gamble of Camp Da' td apparently has paid off. 

Congress OKs budget 
WASHINGTON lAP] -House and Senate conferees agreed yesterday on an $18.J billion budget for next year's agriculture awl food-ai I p~ograms · about 5 billion less than President Carter sought. The funds cover sharp increases for . trograms to bols(er incomes< f farmers" hose prices have been dept ~ssed by surpluses. 
GSA invest~ations continue 
WASHINGTON lAP]-The first indictments from two grand jury investigations of fraud within the General Services Administration could be handed down in about eight weeks. a top Justice Department official said yesterday. But a second department official said the cases "in a sol-called advanced stage of development" involve "relatively low-level" persons. 


Weather 
Partly sunny. hot and humid today with highs around 90. Warm 
and humid tonight with lows in the 70s. A chance of showers and 
thunderstorms tomorrow with highs in the upper 80s. 
~On Campus Today_~_ _. 
4:30 pm 
5:30 pm 
&:30, 9 pm 7 pm 7 pm 
7 pm 
7:30pm 
7:30pm 8 pm 8 pm 
Observer Editorial Board 
Tony Pace Steve Odland John Calcutt Barb Langhenry Rosemary Mills Phil Cackley Jean Powley Ann Gales Mike Lewis Diane Wilson Ray O'Brien 
Bryan Cruley 
Doug Christian 
-------''' 
seminar, "ovarian development in an autogenous mosqwto. ·· by morton fuchs, univ of notre dame, spon by bio dept , 278 galvin 
dinner welcome home for ireland stud., smc wedge rm. 
film. "black and white in color," third world film IPsttval. eng. aud. 
lecture mihajlo mthajlov, spon by stud. union ac,HiPmic comm., library aud. 
video tape, "six characters in search of an author" spon by mod. langu.~ges dept., 242 o'shag. ' 
I 
placement night, business .administration, c.c.e. aud. 
meeting, young democrats, elections, rm. 2d Iafortune 
eucharist. charismatic eucharist, log chapel 
reception. ladies of nd newcomers recep., 14!_b fir. mem. lib. 
concert, canadian brass, spon. by perf. arts series Sill(. o'laugh. aud., $2 
Editor-in-Chie-f Managing Editor Executive Editor Exes;utive Editor Editorial Editor Copy Editor St. Mary's Editor News Editor News Editor News Editor Sports Edit·M Features Editor Photo Editor 


Oswald's travelsdiscussed 
WASHINGTON lAP] -A man identifying himself as Lee Harvey Oswald went Into a rage when Cuban authorities in Mexico refused to give him immediate permission to visit the communist nation. a retired Cuban official told the House assassinations commit­tee yesterday. 
consul in Mexico City in the early 1960's described the man who visited his office in 196:3 as "not pleasant." 
··He was very anxious that we grant him the visa.·· Azcue told the committee through a translator. 
"When I told him 'no. I cannot grant an in-transit visa to Cuba without consulting my govern­ment,' he had a face which reflected unhappiness. He got very worked up. He accused us of being bureaucrats, in a very discourteous 
manner. "At that point, I told him ·~~~~~~!!~~~~!!!'!~~~~~!~~~~~~~~~~
to leave. He mumbled to himself Ff 
and slammed the door. also very
discourteously. Azcue, now retired and living in 
*Tt1e Observer 
Night Editor: Rosemary Mills AS6t. Night Editor: Bill Devttt Layout staff: Dave Berg, Kari 
Bryngelson, john Smith, Tom Smith, Tom Monroe, Dav Brosh, Margo Krach Features Layout: Cozzo, C. L. McKieI Sports Layout: Mark Perry Typists: Mardi Nevin, To Pipp (I'm still the origmal TP), Rosie Rodgers, Pete McFad den Early Morning Typist: me (th original TP) Day Editor: John Ferroli Copy Reader: Debbie Dahrlin Ad Layout: Ovid E. Wood Photographer: Ron Szot 
don't blame mel 
I ht· Ob"•rvPr "publ"hed Mond<1v throullh I nd<tv and wet'kly during tht' .~ununt>r , .. ,,1on. t·~tept during thP ex<rm dnd vacatton pt'nod, The Oh,('rver" published bv 'tudent~ of the L!ntwr~itv of Notre Dame and St Mar\ \ College Subsc ropt iom m.l\ lw purrhas.t'd for $20 rwr. year ($10 pt'r 'eme'>ter) irom The ObsPr­ver, l:lox Q. Notre Damt-. lndtana 4&'i'io St'cond class po.,tagc· patd, Notr<" Dame, Indiana 46'i56 
The Observer is a member of the Assooatt'd Pn·s~. All reproduction nghh art• rt>served 
ND, SMC food services clarify co-ex ticket policy 
Members of the Notre Dame-St. Mary's Co-ex Commission recently met with Robert Robinson, director of NO Food Services. and Charles Flaim. director of SMC Food Services. to evaluate the present co-ex ticket exchange policy. 
Robinson anJ Flaim clarified some of the points of the policy and made the folio" mg suggestions to both campuses: 
--There are no co-ex tickets available for lunch. However. if a student has two classes between II a.m.-lp.m. on either campus, ar­rangements to cat lunch can be made. 
SMC students wishing to eat lunch at NO must sec Robinson in the South dining hall and present their class schedule. NO students wishing to eat at SMC must see Sr. Franccsca in the Kegtstrar·s Office in LcMans Hall. 
Similar arrangements can be made for dinner meals if classes on either campus conllict with dinner hours. 
--NO students wishing to eat at SMC will now be required to present their IDs when picking up co-ex tickets and their IDs will in invalidated for that meal. This polil'y is an effort to stop students from picking up tickets and not U'oing them. If co-ex tickets arc picked up and not used. the co-ex program loses money. Consc­quently. this would result in the discontinuation of the program. 
--To alleviate the overcrowding during lunch at the NO dining halls. students arc recommended to eat after 12:30 p.m. rather than at 12:15 p.m. 
If any student has any questions concerning any of these changes and suggestions, contact Bruce Boivin. NO co-ex commissioner. at 7668 or 1881. or Mariann Frost, SMC co-ex commissioner, at 5256. 

Hesburgh delivers speech 
In remarks prepared for deli­very yesterday at the University of Louvain in Belgium. Fr. Theodore 
M. Hesburgh said that reordering political priorities to eradicate world poverty and hunger will be more difficult than a trip to the moon and back. 
Modern science and technology have given us a new key to the future. Hesbur.gh told faculty and students at ceremonies marking the opening of the school year at Louvain. "We must begin to care. to reorder the usc .,f our new magnitlcent capabilities ... he said. "And the great universities of the world must lead the wa~·... 
The poorest people in the world--a billion people who make up a fnuth of humanilv--livc in the 
Cuba. appeared as part of the assassination committee's t>fforts to find out what happened during a seven-day trip Oswald took to Mexico only two months before the 
Nov.  22.  1963.  assassination  of  
President  John  F. Kennedy  in  
Dallas.  

!continued on page 4] 

Tues. Sept 19th 8:00pm O~Laughlin Auditorium 
·Adults J3.50 Reservations Students J2.00 284-4176 
Notre Dame arate Karate Club meeting in the A CC wrestling pit Tues. and Thurs. 6-Bpm 
there are beginning classes as well as advanced try out for the intercollegiate fighting team FOR INFO CALL Mark Griffies 2 


~ 


\\.\ 
micfiael &co. Hair Concepts 
'Hair designs for Men & Wom~n, with the emphasis on Easy Care' 
mon-wed-fri 8:00-5:30 tues-thur 8:00-8:00 
sat 8-5 1f2 mile east of notre dame 18381 Edison at lnd 23 272-7222 
North .. 2041 E. Ireland at Ironwood
south 
291-1001 
master charge visa 
/ 
Fourth World countries, mainly in the southern hemisphere. Hesburgh said that for the first time in history, their situation would not have to be hopeless. The developed world could help them help themselves by spending about $30 billion dollars for human development---less than one-tenth of last year's world expenditures for armaments. 
"Everything we learn and know and teach in our universities today would point in the direction of a better world. ""Hesburgh said. "But we need the political will to mount the nccessarv effort with as much determination. and Leal as we usc t1' pile up mountains of 
_a_n_n_a_m_e_n_ts_a_n_d_l..:.:u.:.:x..:.:u.:..:ri:..:e.::.s:...."_"-----.. 
1 
Canoe-Kayak rental-sales 
call now for reservation The Sport Corner 
320 N. Redbud Tr. Bul·hanan, Ml 
616-695-2250 
is pure gold 



Observer 

extends deadline 
Observer subscribers for 1977-7 will be left on the mailing list unti Oct. 1, the Observer Circulatio Department reported. 
This extension is to show th effects cf the new circulatio 
olicic, a11d mailing facilities tha were installed this year. Th department hopes that these changes and the extended sub~ scription time will leave a favorabld viewpoint on the Observer and it~ \staff. ' 


Mihajlov speaks tonight 
Tonight at 7 p.m. in the Library Auditorium, Mihajlo Mihajlov, a Yugoslav dissenter, will address the Notre Dame community on his fight for freedom of speech and for human rights in Yugoslavia. 
Mihajlov, a distinguished scholar in Russian literature, was at one time an assistant professor at the Univeristy of Zadar in Yugoslavia. When a professor, he received a grant to do research in the Soviet Union and after interviewing Soviet poets and writers, he published his notes in a literary periodical. 
In his articles, Mihajlov discussed "the first death camps," which, according to Mihajlov, originated in the Soviet Union. These declarations brought opposition from Marshall Tito of Yugoslavia and Mihajlov's long string of prosecutions began. 
Mihajlov was first tried in April 1965, for offense of the "feelings" of the Soviet Union and he was sentenced to nine months in jail. He was tried four more times over the next 12 years with sentences totaling almost 18 years. He was also forbidden to 
• write and publish any articles during these years, but Mihajlov continued to write and his articles were published abroad. 
Mihajlov was released from prison in November 1977 after serving two years of a seven-year prison term. Now on a speech tour in the United States, he 

will return to Yugoslavia in November, most Commission, the Center for Civil Rights, and the probably to be imprisoned again. Institute of International Studies. A reception will The lecture is open to the public and is follow the lecture in the Library lounge. 






Somoza accuses neighbors of giving aid to rebels 
MANAGUA, Nicaragua [APJ­Government forces were airlifted into positions around Esteli in northern Nicaragua yesterday to thr last guerrila strongholds there. 
Esteli has been in rebel hands since Sept. 9 although the national guard said it had overpowered rebel positions in the town of 30.000. 
Earlier. the guard. Nicaragua's 7.5000-member army. recaptured the towns of Masaya, Leon. Chinandega and Pen"as Blancas, routing rebels who are led by guerrillas intent on overthrowing the authoritarian government of President Anastasio Somoza. 
Travelers from the Esteli area. induding some who had flown over the town said it looked dead. They reported no movement of civilians or automobiles. A fire burned near the center of town. 
Troops were lifted to a field north of Esteli to attack from the north and the west. the travelers said. Rebels held the high ground lead­ing into the city from the south. National guard forces manned a checkpoint on the Pan American Highway three miles south of the town and barred journalists from entering. 
Mopping up action was reported from Chinadega. which the guard wrested from the rebels Sunday. There was scattered shooting over­night in Managua where business men vowed to continue a nation­wide strike they called Aug. 25 to pressure Somoza to resign. 
Correspondents in southern Nicaragua reported occasional firing near the outpost of Penas 
Dissident Speaks Tonight from Yugoslavia 

Mihajlo Mihajlov 
7:00pM lib· aud. Reception in Lounge Sponsors: 
Blancas on the Costa Rican border. Guerrillas fought a nine-hour battle with the national guard garrison there Sunday before withdrawing into Costa Rica. 
An investigative team from the Organization of American States was in Costa Rica to examine Costa Rican claims that Nicaraguan forces crossed the border last week and fired on Costa Rican civilian. 
Somoza complained that Costa Rica gave shelter to what he says are communists trying to overthrow him 

Nicaragua also said a Venezuelan fighter plane on temporary assignment in Costa Rica supported rebels in their Sunday foray against Penas · Blancas. In Caracas. Venezuelan President Carlos Andres Perez 
, 

···············~·········~······ 
: ·iO\\.·········.. ....··············· ........·:: duties (your convenience) or nursing home 
: 1\)~t:. c.~················ , ·················· 


: • L~;,~ ················· 
• C ....······ 
•.....········· 

.; Michigan State tickets may be ,: picked up at Junior class office in 
:Lafortune Basement Tues., Sept. 19 
: trom 1:00-5:00
• 

Bring ID 
author of : Moscow Summer Russian Themes 
Underground Notes 
Center for Civil Rights Institute of International Studies Student Union Academic Commission 
admission is free 

said Monday the charge is "absolutely false." 
There are no reliable reports on casualties in the fighting which erupted throughout the country Sept. 9. But those who visited the recaptured cities say the toll was high. Residents of the towns claimed the national guard was executing people sUsQected of being snipers. 
Red Cross sources in Leon, the nation· s second largest city· said thev counted 300 dead and about 
3.000 wounded when allowed back into the city by the national guard. 
Estimates vary as to the strength~============-~~~::::::::::::~~::::::~!!!!::::jl
of the Sandinistas. Some put the figure near 400. but Somoza says 
STORYTELLERS needed by 3-5 year olds
there are between 1.000 and 2.000., Thousands oi Nicaraguans support 
day care center. Males preferred. ' 
them with food, information, shelter or money. 
· WORK WITH ElDERLY: light clean-up 
: : visits (pianists requested). 
• Call Anne Marie, Volunteer Services, 7308
.• 'llfiiMm~-~~--~••••Nliliiiii'k
~ 
:  Don't Miss  
:  Second City  
Thursday, Sept. 21,1978  8:00  


O'Laughlin Auditorium 
student-'2.00 general admission-'3.00 
No reserve tickets-tickets mav be purchased in the Moreau ticket office 

SOPHOMORE CLASS Michigan State Football Ticket Lottery 
Date: !1/ednesday, September ~0 Rathskeller (Basement of LaFortune ID's taken from 7:00-7:30 pm '15.00 All tickets include bus ride -Each 10 may purchase two ticketa --·· 
uesday, September 19, 1978 
the observer 



Dunne receives award 
by John McGrath 
Fr. John S. Dunne, professor of theology at Notre Dame, will receive the Sheedy Award for outstanding teaching in the College of Arts and Letters on Friday. The prestigous award will be presented as part of the annual Arts and Letters Advisory Council meeting which is to be held at the Center for 
Continuing Education. 

A leading figure in what is 
known as the "narrative school" of 
theology. Dunne has been a popu­
lar teacher in the 21 years he has 
Carter pleased by summit results 
[continued from page 1] 

··Blessed are the peacemakers 
for they shall be the children of 
God."" 

Carter's speech wound up a day 
in which the administration began 
a diplomatic and political offensive 
in support of the fragile Mideast 
agreement. signed in a White 
House ceremony Sunday night. 
In a statement broadcast to the 
Egyptian people. Sadat said a "just 
peace" had been achieved and that 
Egypt "no longer has to send its 
sons to light in Sinai." 

Begin. reassuring his people in a 
television interview from here. said 
the agreement was a realistic one 
and "the onlv wav that lan lead to 
peace--there ·is n~ other." 

Administration officials. eager t<J 
prevent Arab divisions from tear­
ing the summit agreement apart, 
saidPalestinianon the West Bank of 
the Jordan River probably would be 
running their own affairs within 
three months. and that members of 
the Palestine Liberation Organiza­
lion can participate in shaping the disputed area's future. 
been on the Notre Dame faculty. 
In 1969, he received the Danforth Foundation Harbison Award, given only to the nation's most outstand­ing teachers. 
Dunne is a 1951 Notre Dame graduate, doing his post-graduate work at the Gregorian University in Rome. He held the Riggs Chair in Yale University's Department of Religious Studies in 1972-73 and gave the Sarum lectures at Oxford University in 1976.. 
Through his five published books and numerous magazine articles, Dunne has earned such distinctions as "the most original religious thinker of our time." 
''I'm really very happy to receive it (the award) because teaching here means so much to me," Dunne said, adding, "the life of teaching is sort of a gaining and sharing of insight with others." 
The award was established by an anonymous donor to honor Fr. Charles E. Sheedy, former dean of the College of Arts and Letters. Recipients are selected by a stu­dent committee and receive a $1,000 gift. 
need posters in a hurry? 
the wb of the printin& biz! 
17
100 -11 X posters only S 1 0.00 
203 n. main nowntown SoBend 289-6977 

~____tb_e observer 

/rfY IQNT; SIR. IS UXJK, K/0, I THifrWfTH ~ SYMPATHIZE, PElJPlE HOSPfTAL-8IfTIJJfAT CAN 
IfIZ£/) IN ONE 6o1Mt; I w.IMfJlY ~ SIJftiEHN6 HAS 7D CNE 6BOAL 
• 8£ IXH! f . · ·.. MANA­4,.'-1···~" GI3R..' 
/(1{'1, 'tW (i».[) IRJNE 7ES75? SWIJtJP 7D TIEM, at (!101, RJLEY, SIR! >Of) {1H.[) 'tOlJ /(}QJ) H(}(JJ Pf18UCLY (1»113 /Jt61?//I)/N6 7HAT aJT IN fiil~ OF 15 7lJ 7H£ 
fR/N/3 TE515! ERS? 
' 
I1XX, KI/J, M!fTlnTY !5 THAT COthl15!1AJ1Y W YOU TH£85T THINJ< THE NFL ()VLY YOU CAN ORAFT5 t::aJ.E6C 
/)(), 51R? 6RAJ)(JIIT5? 
\ . 



Allotting D.C. representatives causes stir among Indy Senators 
INDIANAPOLIS [AP]-The pro­posed constitutional amendment to give the District of Columbia representation in Congress may face opposition in Indiana. legisla­tive leaders say. 
Under the proposed amendment, supported by both Sens. Richard Lugar. R-Ind.. and Birch Bayh, D-lnd.. the District of Columbia would get two senators and one or two representatives. 
''I'm not going to introduce it and I have reservations about it." said House Speaker Kermit Bur­rous. R-Pcru. "The District of (olumbia is not a legally constitu­ted state. I'll have to study it. but the people in the House to whom I have talked about it. informally. without exception have some reser­vations about it.·· 
House Democratic Minority Leader Michael Phillips. D-Boon­
villc. said the district deserves Congressional representation. but he added that he would ·not want to sec Indiana lose a congressional scat. 


Now Appearing: PACIFIC 
Monday-Friday Happy Hour 4pm-7pm free hors d'oeuvres 
Sunday Beer special 4:30-10:30 ........................ '1.25 a pitcher 
I 

Beer drinking contest ............................ '50.00 prize Monday Gong Show ..............................:··· win dinner for two Wednesday 
.  Macho man contest ······ ······.................... '50.00 prize  
co-sponsored:  New Century Design  
Friday  Foxy lady  .................................................'50.00 prize  
co-sponsored: New Century Design  

Posy Patch 

Second Pitcher FREE with this ad Good only on Sunday Night 
515 DIXIEWAY NORTH • U. S. HIGHWAY 31 SOUTH BEND, INDIANA 46637 PHONE 219/272-6600 
.­

~tn 's Jlair lliasbtons 

River Bend Plaza 232-2194 

~~/We invite you into our new branch salon for beautv with a touch of royalty and prices that are affordable IGrand Opening Soecials 
s15.88 Bonat Perm s20.88 Bonat Fragran( reg. 30.00 reg. 35.00 ) ues.-Wed. 8:30-5:00~ styling included A 
Thurs.-Fri. 8:30-8:30 Sat. 8:00-5 

·• ... I would want to review it to !iCC how it is set up, whether it increases the number of seats in the U.S. House or takes them away from other states," said Phillips. Under the amendment, the U.S. House would decide whether or not to increase its size from 435 members. 
Sen. Robert Fair. D-Princcton, president pro tern of the Senate, but is not seeking re-election, said the measure would be difficult to pass. 
"My reaction is it will have tough sledding. As a practical matter, people arc going to look at it and say 'What good does this do us?' In a sense, it dilutes our vote, not much but by a little bit--1 think it wil be very difficult to pass." 
Sen. F· ank O'Bannon, D-Cory­don, said although most lawmakers haven't had time to look at the proposal. he feels " ...the justice of the thing would be in favor of passing it. Without the representa­tion, they are left a little short of being a part of the overall govern­ment." 
Thirty-eight states must ratify the amendment within a seven­year period. 


Oswald's travels discussed at committee hearing 
[continued from pa~e. 2] . The Warren Commtsston, whtch concluded in 1964 that Oswald 
. 
ktlled Ke.nn_edy and that he acted alone. satd tt found no support for 
. .

speculatton of a consptracy.
· 

"The commission has no credi­blc evidence that Oswald went to Mexico pursuant to a plan to assassinate President Kennedy. that he received any instructions related to such an action while 
there, or that he received large sums of money from any source in 
Mexico," said the commission's final report "Th · . . h .. d
e commtsston as .oun n 
evidence that Oswald made any n· ht t c b h'l h · 
tg o u a w t e e was tn
M · " th t ·d
extco, e repor sat . 
In fact, the commission said, c·uban embassy officials refused to grant his request for a visa, and the cuban consul "told Oswald that, in his opinion. people like Oswald were harming the Cuban revolu­
tion... 

......".........-~..···········-··---·············: 
WEEKLY SPECIALS 
EVERY SUNDAY IS HANG-OVER SUNDAY 
lowest drinks in ffiichiana 
EVERY WEDNESDAY DANCE LESSONS­LADIES NIGHT 
all ladies admitted free learn all the newest steps as taught by the Apple High Steppers 
EVERY THURSDAY NOTRE DAffiE­ST. mARYS NIGHT 
. anyone presenting a Notre Dame or St. marys Col 
1.0. will be given 5 half ptice drink tickets that can be ________ used anytime durin~ the night
! FREE-Al)miTfAN-CE___with-r"his-Ad______: 
I : 
L_____ T~'-~~~_y-~~ Wedf)~!i~~y __ l located at U.S. 12 and 1-94, New Buffalo, Mich. (formerly The Golden Door Restaurant) 
Ph. 616/-1181 
······················~· 
RIVER CITY RECORDS & BAMBOO PRODUCI'IONS  t  
IN ASSOCI~TION WITH THE N.D. STUDENT UMON  t  
PRESENTS  AN EVENING WITH  t  


RICK WAKEMAN·JON ANDERSON ALAN WHITE·STEVE HOWE CHRIS SQUIRE featuring a spectacular light show and revolving stage in the round 
Friday Sept. 22 at 8:00 p.m. •.1 
NOTRE DAME ACC 
•

Tickets: $8.50/7.50 reserved and are now on sale •• 
at the Student Union and A.C.C. box offices and + 
River Citv Records, 50970 U.S. 31 North 
1 mile South of the Stateline. 

"th€ i=aJR€St CountRy 0~ th€m au" 
--maynooth, l~elanO 

One year ago I left with seventeen other members of the Notre Dame-St. Mary's community to attend St. Patrick's College in Maynooth, Ireland on the first year of a SMC overseas program. While I was there. an article of mine was printed in the Observer reviewing the trials and tribula­tions of a spoiled ND male deprived of home, dining hall, and laundry service. Upon its publication, another member of the group suggested that I write a second and more serious article, this time doing justice to the country and program. 
The problem with this piece is that nobody will agree with any analysis of Ireland. The Irish crucify their greatest writers: I hardly expect to be spared. "Ireland was not like that at all" will be echoing on the opinion pages of the Observer in a few days. if I am right. But this itself is an intrinsic part of the Irish experience: individuality and divergence of opinion. To avoid trouble. I intend so far as possible to stick with general and neutral remembrances of the year. For those who have never been there· I hope it i'> somewhat of an incentive: for those who have. I hope to gent!:-· stir the memory. 
let me start with Mavnooth itself. a '>mall village about fifteen ·miles outside of Dublin in County Kildare. Ma:-·nooth is a typical one street-Main Street town. dominated b\ the tower of St. Patrick·'> College. the ~ccond highest structure of its t:o.·pc in all of Ireland. At dusk, hundreds of large black crows lly about the spire. pre'>erlling an eerie image. The entrance to the old college i'> at one end of Main Street. llanked on one side by the Protestant Church of Ireland. and on the other by the ruins of the Fitzgerald castle. 
On the other end of Main Street is O'Brien''> Supermarket. where we did most of nur shopping. Midway between thi'> market and the school, amid all the shops. and next to the bus stop is the most heavenly spot in Maynooth. On this corner, across from the post office, is Brady' Public House. owned and operated by the Brady family. 
Although we Americans generally went our separate ways. we all put in a good bit of time at Brady's. The building itself is hardly impressive, having a simple bar and lounge as do all others. Yet there was something in the atmosphere that captured our fancy, and we were quite fond of the place. The air was always alive, whether it be from idle chatter. a heated debate. or a stirring traditional ballad. 
The master of song at Brady's was the poet-laureate of Maynooth. Arthur O'Duffy whose home was in Derry City. Art knew them all and he knew how to mix thcm..·the songs. that is. Usually he would start out with a few rowdy sailor songs. and then, when the pints started to take their effect. he would sing some r•·al tear-jerkers. our favorite being the maudlin "Town I loved So Well." a song about his war-torn home of Dcrrv. And damn if even time we weren't ~II lumpy throated and misty eyed. Repetition did not dull the effect. As a big part of Ireland is her song. one of the most enjoyable things about the country was joining in at Bradv's. 
Unfortunatelv. man:-· a good night at Bradv's resulted in missed morning classes were for the most part held on the new campus. it was the old campus that was really inspiring. It has lush quads. red and green ivy covered walls. awesome greystonc buildings. and holly trees (which take a beating around Christmas). Above the tower. the skv is a roval blue with thick. puff\ white cl(;uds that complete any picture. Inside the cold. dark corridors of the main building. heavy footsteps echo 

nWhen a Friend is Lost--" 
Fr. Bill Toohe~ 

What a contra'> I! One night I'm sitting in Bruce Plunkett. who would have been a a theatre watching the new super-hit juinior thi'> year. was killed on July Jrd movie. ~nimal House and the next night when the car he was driving was hit b:-· the I'm in Flanncr pit at a memorial mass for Mctroliner. There was a special mass for Bruce Plunkett. who w·as killed thi'> Bruce in the Flanncr pit the dav before summer. schonl started. When I walked in, I was 
If :-·ou haven't -.ccn Animal House vet. startled hv the size of the crowd. Here it ~·ou will. At lea'>! the pressure on you to wa'> ju~t ·a day or so aftcr most of the sec it will be erwrmou'>. For a week or so uppcrclass students arrived. and the place on l·ampu-. we've heard conversations like w·a-, jammed. the following: .. Have vour seen Animal ln;mcdiatcly. I got the • unmistakable House vet'! Fantastic! You've got to see impression that. to many people. Bruce it... We will rarel:-· experience the had been a truly exceptional guy. That conform it\· principle so profoundly. Not feeling was intensified throughout the onlv will '>tudcnh feel they've got to sec nJ<t'>s. especially when his friends spoke of Animal House to be "with it": the~· will be him. After communion. two of his made to feel there is something ·wrong roommates offered a very personal tribute. with them if they don't believe it's the I asked thl 'r permission to quote an greatest !lick thcv'vc seen in a long time. excerpt: 
You'd almost think there was a new Often we find that we don't realize how mortal sin around: the failure to rave about good something is until we no longer have Animal House. It·'> not going to be easy for it. When that something is a friend, the anyone (cspcciallv a student) to issue a impact is much more staggering. We minority report. I was speaking to an realize now, more than ever, that friend­upperclassman the other night; and he ship is our most valuable possession... soon began to share his impression of the When a friend is lost, a void is created that movie: "It i'> the raunchiest. grossest. can never be filled, vet the contributions of mo'>t depraved. tasteless film I've ever that friend will always be felt, for they are seen. I loved it! .. He laughed. and then I the contributions that helped us all grow, asked him: "(., that what you really as we in tum helped him grow. think?" "Well." he replied. "it was all of People may think that the true tragedy of the things I mentioned. but if you want to this loss is that Bruce left us before he was know my honest opinion. I didn't think it able to fulfill. his future dreams. But this is was nearly so great as a lot people arc not the case, for life is a continuous series saying. There were about four or five truly of challenges. While his future dreams · funny scenes. hut most of the rest of it was may have included helping people and just plain corny." even saving lives, in his 19 years Bruce met 
I assured him I would keep his secret. every challenge th.at he confronted with a After all, if it got out that he was such a glowing intensity that was obvious to those square. he might be written off as a Notre who knew him. Success is not measured in Dame simile of one of the "Omegas". time, but rather, by accomplishment; and While watching Animal House. I was therefore Bruce was highly successful. His frequently reminded of one of those standards of self-discipline, self-motiva-. occasions we've all been exposed to ·­tion, and hard work are attributes that when you meet someone (so insecure. so many people strive for all their lives. desperate for attention) who somehow These experiences have affected us all feels an exhibition of excess and making an and this affect will not leave us, but will ass of yourself is the avenue to acceptance grow with us and enrich our lives. Bruce and popularity. About as entertaining as a will be deeply missed, but never forgotten. food fight. Joining with the women and men at that 
Well, anyway, this is not intended to as a Flanner liturgy was a very moving experi· movie review; I'll leave that to the experts. ence. No wonder the Deltas of Animal I simply want to note how I was struck by House come off so poorly by comparison. the contrast between-the feelings I had Some may prefer Bluto, Otter and Flou­seeing this movie one night and the scene der. That's fine. But I'll take the friends of in Flanner Hall the very next. Bruce Plunkett any day. 
from the tloors while imposing. lifesize portraits of stern bishops stare down disapproving!:-· from the walls. 
This mldncss is a constant mcmon-of Ireland. As the air is damp and heavy it often feels colder than it actually is. Matters were not helped b~· the not infrequently empty oil tanks. Many a night was spent drinking countless cups of tea. dressed in thick sweaters. and huddling in front of a coal or turf fire. An occasional taste of Jameson Whiskey helped to keep the blood warm and the spirits high. 
As miscrablc and cold as some of those nights seemed. those were the times that I miss most. the times I remember with a smile. Without "Charlie's Angels" and· WNDU to distract us. our life was much simpler. It was rustic. with just enough modcrnitv to make it comfortable. As a conseque-nce. we were forced to learn more by wa~· of reading and conversation. I don't think that am·onc discussed more and concluded les.s than we did in Maynooth. I repeat the point emphasized by so many students who come back from a year abroad: one learns much more outside the clas~>room than in it. A year abroad is a great step toward a liberal education. 
By living in another culture. one learns to not onlv tolerate the differences from our own culture. but also to recognize that people have a valid and logical reason for their wa'5· of life. In the beginning of my year in Ireland. I was struck by the differences between there and here; at the end of the year. I was more impressed by the similarities. the sameness of humanity. 
I think that I fully realized this after I got to real!:-· know my relatives. I vis'ited the tavern where my grandfather was born and reared---it is a funny feeling to see what could vcrv well have been Ill\' home. As manv N'o-SMC students. have Irish cousins. the Maynooth program offers a great chance for one to really get to know them. and thus learn about one's heritage. 
Some may be surprised that I have not gone into the usual praise of the country­side and try to win points there. It would not be hard to do: the lakes of Killarney. Cliffs of Moher. Aran lslands-..the:-· are all beautiful and unique. They keep Aer lingus in business. The problem is that Erin's bards--men such as William Butler Yeats. George Bernard Shaw. Brendan Behan--thcy all got there first and : stolf' all my most memorable and profound lines. 
What these poets have not yet done is adequately sing praise of the Irish people. En:rv memorv I have of Ireland is inext-ricably lin'ked with another person. Never at a loss for words. the Irish can always be counted on to put things in their proper perspective. When I needled my neighbor. David McDermott. that Ireland did not have any great man-made monu· mcnts (inferring that maybe they were too lazy). he exploded with righteous indigna· tion and pointed out my error. 
"It's like this." he said. "We have here the fairest country of them all. with landscapes and natural wonders that bring poets and painters to their greatest heights. Our Good lord, in His infinite wisdom, chose our humble land to display his best efforts. and we have no desire to outdo God." Thusly reprimanded, I never mentioned the subject again. I only wish I had said it, and as this is my article I confess I was tempted to claim so. 
But even David McDermott admits that Ireland is not the place to go if one is seeking a St. Peter's Basilica. a Parthenon, or a Louvre. But if one goes to meet people. to grow and to share by opening oneself up to them. then Ireland is the land. Ireland's greatest wealth and export is her peo:•lc, and it is from people that we grow. In my mind, this beats the Louvre anvtime. 
in the r nooth post office. there is a poster that .1rs a line by George Bernard Shaw. "i eland." it reads. "is like no other countrv. No man can touch her sod nor breathe. her air without being either infinitely better or infinitely worse for the experience. 
I think most of us would agree with Mr. Shaw. 
-BIU McGurn 




lobotomy by po.t bytnes 
'111~ SagdC.!:JC ICZ -"f"~ o~E.. · 
"b~e:.. ~A ... ... At-lb A~ 

the ObS&rY1Jii8~[_____Tuesday, September 19, 1978 




iliiiJiEBS® 
402 Dixieway North 
p•-•CUPCOUPON-•••• 
ONE FREE HAMBURGER PER COUPON 
~ 

FREE 
HAMBURGER 
Now at Wendy's Old Fashioned Hamburgers this coupon entitles you to a free 
Single Hamburger with the purchase of two hamburgers of any siz~c. 
PRESENT COUPON WHEN ORDEffii<IG-. -I
··--------· 

Redken ~ham~. I 
conditioner with haircut 
R~g. ~9.7:, 
Now $7.50 

'~ED KEN 

Tuesday, September 19, 1978 
the observer 
In B-P 



Cila shares experiences 
NOTICES 

Special Discount to all N D and SMC students on automotive parts All you need IS your ID card. 
Hoffman Bros. Auto Electic 
1101 E. Madison 
South Bend 

MORRISSEY LOAN FUND Student Loans $20-$1501 percent interest DUE IN 30 DAYS -1 DAY WAIT -LaFortune Basement M-F 1130-12:30 
Attention all Logan Center volunteers and mterested studenrs' The first dance of the year is this Wednesday. Sept. 20th from 7:30 -10:00 p.m. in the Logan Center cafeteria. The live band is Z1egfield and good times will be had by all -so come and bring a fnend 1 CAll M1ke at 1371 for more info. 
Sponsors needed for ride-a-bike for the retarded bike-a-than riders 1 They are nding 25 m1les this Sunday -could you back them w1th 5or 10 cents a mile? The money goes to local and state councils for the retarded. We need your help 1 Call Mike at 1371 
FOR RENT 

FOR RENT: Good 5 bed. possibility. OR fenced 3/4 acre yard, 4-blocks from Notre Dame. Partially furnished, utilities not included. 272-7365-Terry. 
Country House-furnished room for rent Nine minutes travel. 277-3604. 
FOR RENT: 4 bedroom house, partially furnished, fenced back yard, garage. 731 South Bend Ave. Perfect college rental. CAll 259-9702 or 259-9613. ­
Furnished three rooms -front upstairs ­stall shower -near Howard Park. Call 291-6747. 
LOST AND FOUND 

Lost: Bulova watch. silver. snap closure band. Call Mike 6809. 
LOST: Green wallet near K of C Hall. If found call B. Leibel 1407. Reward. 
LOST: Gold Chain and cross on field between Towers and Library. Reward. Call Jim 8889. 
WANTED 

Will trade "YES" tickets lor MICH student passes. Mark 3138. 
by John Kuluz Several students from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's partici­pated in summer projects spon­sored by CILA. 'Tomorrow ' at 9 
, 
p.m. in the Breen Phillips base­ment puzzle room they will share a slide presentation and discussion 
on their experiences. 
Andrea Smith, NO senior, will 
give the first presentation on her 
experiences in Appalachia. After 
her summer she wrote, "The 
summer mstilled in me a 
sensitivity to the mountain people 
and their struggles. a yearning to 
improve the social injustices and a 
strong belief that the Church, too, 
r must undergo some changes in
r· ~riorities of action. As I wrote the 
dav after I came home, 'I must 
reinind myself of the lessons I 
learned from the mountains -to 
listen. to be open and to be patient 
as God's call is revealed to me ... l'll 
just say that I've been to the 
mountains and caught a glimpse of 
Judicial Coordinator Jayne Rizzo [center], executive officer Kristin 
all that I can be ... "' 
Quann [right] and Farley hall Judicial-board chairman, Kathy Knue 
The second presentation will be
are pictured above at the judicial workshop held yesterday. The 
given by Mary Beth Simons and 
.workshop was organized to help the hall J-board chairmen organize 
·their councils. [Photo by Ron Szot] 
Hillbilly family coming from California to learn about football. Need 2 GA or student tickets .for Michigan. Will also take Purdue or Pitt GA tix. Call 3489-ask for Jethro. 
Desperately need 2 GA tix for MICH. Will Pay Big Bucks. Call Bill 8333. 
Addressers Wanted IMMEDIATELY! Work at home--no experience necessary-­excellent pay. Wri1e American Service. 8350 Park Lane. Suite 127. Dallas. TX 75231 
WANTED: 2 GA Pitt Tix. John 8281. 
Desperately ueed two GA tickets to any home game Scott 1624. 
Desperately need G~ t1ckets for Michi­gan Call Joe 8691. 
Wanted Two football tickets for Michi­gan will pay a good price for studimt or GA tickets call 1770. 
Need 2 GA tix for Tenn. 6893. 
Rich uncle needs 4 GA/2 student Purdue t1x Good $$. Bill 3303. 
WANTED: Two GA tickets for Purdue game. Call Michele 8007. 
Need GA and student tickets for all home games. especially Michigan. Call Jerry 3795. 
Need many tickets to Tenn game. Student or GA. Call Mary 6850. 
Anxious to trade 2 MSU tix for 2 Pitt. CAll 283-6539 or 277-3333. 
Need 2 GA Michigan tix" Please. Cal K'ristin 7968. 
Parttime. evening delivery personnel wanted. $3.50 an hour guaranteed. Apply in person. Julio's. 2509 S. Michigan Street after 4:30p.m. 
Desperately need 2GA tickets for Purdue Game. Will pay top dollar. Call Dick 6158. 
Please Help' Parents won't come see me unless I obtain 2 GA Michigan tickets ­$$$ -Call 7607. 
WANTED: 2GA Purdue tix. Can pay big oucks or trade 2 Pitt tix. Deooie 8150. 
WANTED: One student football lor Purdue game. Call 4-1-4243. 
Will trade two 1979 MICH vs. NO tickets or one Notre Dame and one Ohio State ticket. or money lor one 1978 MICH vs. NO tickilt Call Tom collect at 1-313-971­6048. 
WANTED: Will trade liquid assets for 
Purdue tickets. 1need 2 or 4 GA tickets. call Bob at 6637. 
Need Pitt tickets -any kind. any price. Ove 8853. 
Need 2 to 4 Michigan tic_kets 3441 3441 3441 
WAt.ITED: 1 Michigan student or GA ticket Will pay $. Cal 4-1-5411. 
HELP!·Have to have 1 GA Michigan Ticket CAll Mary 4-1-4359. 

Denise Perez. who spent their summer in Tuscon. AR. "Getting food for a family in need. connec­ting a family to food stamps and returning to find out that they
I I . I.II If became certified and were now 
Need 2 GA tix for Miami or Tenn. Call Dick 232-3084. 
Need 1 or 2 GA Purdue tickets. Will pay top dollar. CAll Tom 3010. 
Desperately need Pitt tickets. Money no object. Name your price. Call Lance 1027. 
Now hiring cooks, waitresses and deli­very persons. Call Pinocchio's 277-4522. 
Bartender -part-time. Experience not necessary CAll Jim, Ramrod Bar. 289-4709. 
1need 2 Purdue tickets. Call Joe at 1780. 
Need 1 wr 2 GA tickets for Michigan game. Call Mike at 1384. 
I need Purdue tickets$$ My parents will pay, so ;; you have Purdue tickets [2 or 4 GA tickets[ call Bob at 1780. 
Notre Dame-Micliigan tickets wanted. Exchange for tickets to next years sellout game in Ann Arbor or money 1-313-663­7230. 
Desperately need 2 GA Purdue tickets Chuck 289-6721 
Desperately need 2GA Michigan tickets. Will pay HUGE BUCKS!! Call John 1185. 
Need GA or student Michigan tix. Will pay$$$. Please call JOE 8336. 
Desperately need 3GA Michigan tickets. Call CArl 272-4478. 
Desperately need 3 Michigan tickets for friend. Call Billy -289-7690. 
1 need Purdue tickets. Will pay big bucks. Call Joe 1780. 
I need on student tic to Michigan game. Will pay anything. Call Charlie at 8582. 
Need 2 GA or student tickets for MICHIGAN. John 1785. 
Will exchange 2Pitt or 2 Miami or 2 Tenn tickets for 2 GA Michigan tickets. CAll Sheila 4-4412 
Need Michigan student tickets or will be shot by angry friends. Cal Pete 8795. 
Needed: 2 GA tickets to Purdue, Pitt and/or Tennessee. Call John 8828. 
Independently wealthy business man wants 2 Michigan GAs. Call Now 8372. 
WANTED: Full and part time cocktail waitresses for our Gipper's Lounge. For more info. call 272-6600. Ext. 472. 
WANTED: 2-4 GA Michigan UckttJ. Call Bob 28S-1412. 
Will trade my Michigan ticket for your Pitt ticket. Joe 2J3.9771. 
WANTED: 2-4 tix lor Purdue. Please help' I'm desperate. Call Laura 6731. 
FOOTBALL PHOTOGRAPHS WANTED I N D action shots needed for new book. Large acknowledgement; sinal! remune­ration. Icarus Press. POB 11, NO, 46556. 
291-3200. 
Desperately need any amount of Michi­gan GA tickets. CAll Jim 1529. 
Need 4 GA Michigan tickets. CAll Ruth 7136 afternoons-272-3513 evenings. 
I need GA tix for Michigan. Will pay$$$ Call Gary. 6143. 
Mom and Dad need 2 tickets for Purdue. CAll Dan 8252. 
Desperately need two Michigan GA tix. Call Cindy 4-1-5484. 
Michigan Game! Will pay huge plies of greenbacks for tix of any kind! Calf Pat 289-3863. 
Please show compassion! Need GA tickets to Purdue. Call Mac 6551. 
Will pay$$$$. Need Purdue tickets [GAJ Call Bob at 1780. 
My parents are coming this weekend-and 1 need TWO Michigan tickets for them .. The price of their admission is no object ­they are worth it 1 Call Mark at 1035. 
Need 1 trcket for Michigan game, call Mike at 7838. 
Need 4 GA tix for PURDUE GAME. Call Jeananne 6561. 
Need 2 Miami GA tix-Call Tim at 1771. 
Desperately desire General Admission tickets to the Pitt game. You name the price. Call Jaynie O'B at 7889. 
Need GA's to Pitt. Money no object"' Call Tom 277-1071. 
Desperately need GAs to Michigan. as you can 'spare. $$$Call Mike 277-1071. 
Father returning to NO after 20 years. Need 1GA ticket for Pitt game. Call Rose at 1320. 
Need 2 Michigan tickets -will pay good money Call Brian at 1751 or 1754. 
1 am looking for several intelligent people. of any age. who enjoy a modicurr of self-confidence. and who would like tc earn alot of money honestly. The positior requires some sales. though in a veT) limited way. There is no obnoxious 01 anti-social work involved. You do no need acar or money for you will earn botl, working with this company--(Which hap­pens to be the fastest-growing company of its kind in the world.) You may also have more fun than you have had in a long time. Call 272-2484 or 283-6740. 
Need ride to Chicago Friday afternoon ­will share expenses. Call 289-1572. 
Help reaffirm my belief in miracles! I need 2 GA Michigan tickets. CAll 284-4719 and help make my day. 
FOR SALE 

Used desks. file cabinets. and metal bookshelves. Call Goodwill 234-1661. Ext. 24. 
receiving food stamps, hunting for days and finally locating a matress for an old lady who was bedridden, suggesting possible courses of action for a disabled man who had almost given up hope, making a person smile and as you leave hearing, 'Que te vayas con Dios ... ' (that you go with God)." 
%Observer 

The Observer circulation depart­ment has issued the following notice to members of the mailed subscription service. 
Difficulties were encountered during our initial printing week. All back issuj::s.ivere sent out Sept. 
8. Your first copies will be arriving shortly. 
Please remember it takes an average of three days for total processing of each subscription and we · have an extremely limited supply of daily issues saved. Therefore please do not request any back issues without regards to the processing cycle in excess. 
All checks received during the summer semester have now been cleared through our bank in South Bend. Check your local financial institution if there are any compli­
cations of this nature. 

NOTICE: "Found" one 12 inch softball near Lyons. call 7962 and Identify. 

P.S. Your P.itch may be good, but delivery ain t too hot Did It bclllgame? Or was It a llonl8run? 
4.0 mill girl. Return rabbit or it's lor Ann and Andy. 
To the owrier of the sportscar which Is seen parked on so frequently. Is It really true that you owe $80 In parking violations already? 
P.S. We know who you are! 


o •h-,..h~--·-~ Tuesday, September 19, 1978
~--U~~~--~----~~==~~~ 
Notre Dame nine take two of three 
by Mike Henry Sports Wrlter 
Experience is an asset welcomed gladly by any knowledgable base­ball man. Expcrienl·e gives a player an extra edge against the opposition, since many of the experienced player's actions have become instinctual. Perhaps the greatest advantage experience gives a player is the ability to anticipate upcoming events, to !>hade an opposing batter a step to the right since his pitcher is tiring. This edge often mades the differ­ence between a championship team and an also-ran. 
The Fighting Irish baseball team. is counting heavily on two experi­enced seniors this year. captain Rkk Pullano and pitcher Mike Bobinski. Both performed excep­tionally this weekend as the Notre Dame· nine took two from Spring Arbor Saturday. before dropping an 8-S decision to Oakland on Sundav. 
In ihe opener agaisnt Spring Arbor. Bobinski allowed just five hits and struck out six as the Irish triumphed 6-0. It was the first compl·titive effort in four months 




Soccer team crushes St. Joe's 
by CraJg Lombardi Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame soccer team 
overwhelmed St. Joseph's College 
12-0 last night at Cartier Field. The 
win extends the Irish winning 
streak to twenty straight games. 
the longest streak in the nation, 
and raised their season record to 
4-0. 
The barrage began early as Terry Finnegan scored at the 40 second mark. with an assist from Jim Sabitus. Fmnegan tallied again at 
6:56 on a pass from Ted Cornevale. Kevin Lovejoy scored at 23:03 on a penalty kick and again at 24:50 on a nice pass from Joe Ciuni. · Tom Crotty and Mike Mai closed out the first half scoring as the Irish led 6-0. 
The second half was more of the same for Notre Dame. as Finnegan compLeted the hat trick with only ten seconds elapsed in the half, assisted by Tim Naumun. Lovejoy tallied twice more with assists from Dan McCurrie. Naumun,and Sabi­tus. 

Field hockey goes varsity 
by Beth Menke Sports Writer 
The ncwl'~l women·s sport to
•, 
gain varsity statu~ a1 Notre Dame is lield hockn. Ft)r the last four H'ar~. field iH>l·kev 11 as a dub sport for Notre Dame women. but as of this Septcmher. the ~port has been de' ated to the varsity lovel. 
Evidently this has helped the tl·am spirit. Mary Hums, team manager and goalie. remarked that "the ll'am has always worked hard, but now we all take it much more seriously.'' 
The team i\ coached lw Astrid Hotvedt and this season b~gins her fourth vcar as the director of the lield h;ll'key program. With the . team gelling off to a fast start this past Saturday, the season holds much promise. The NO women didn't lose a game on Saturday. In the first game, NO played to a 1-1 
. ric with Albion College. Mary Clair Tollakscn made the score for the Irish. 
In the second game, ND defeated Franklin College by a score of 2-0. Tollaksen had another goal, and Mary Ann Dooley· made the second goal for the Irish. The third game was also a shutout for ND. 

Jim Stein, Bill Murphy, and Crotty scored the last three goals for Notre Dame. 
The Irish totaled 39 shots on goal. while St. Joe's countered with four shots. none of which escaped the goalie tandem of Bob Ritger and Bob Van Hoomissen. The Irish netminders have surrendered only one goal in the four games this vear. · During the game, assistant coach Tom Van Meter commented on the team's successes. "We are trying to establish ourselves as a strong Midwestern team," Van Meter said. He added that Notre Dame's soccer reputation suffers when compared to perennial powers such as Cleveland State, Southern Illi­nois, and Indiana. "We have to establish our own identity." he explained. 
Van Meter indicated that the Irish are scheduling tough teams like Michigan. Dayton. and Indiana to establish themselves. He emphasized that "Indiana is the key game of the season...they're for the smooth nghthander, and coach Tom Kelly says, "Mike should get even sharper as the fall goes along." Bobinski worked out of a couple of minor jams along the way. Third sacker Mark Simendin­ger-helped out with three rbi's by going two for three and leadoff hitter Pullano tallied three runs. 
"Ricky is picking right up where he left off," (he batted .357 last spring) Kelly noted. "He made good contact all weekend." For the three games, the senior shortstop wa~; 6 for 13, for a cool .462. 
Hurler Bob Bartlett was the story in Saturday's nightcap. Bartlett held the enemies hitless until the fifth inning. as the Irish scored twice, the game winner coming in the fifth frame. Designated hitter Bill Miler. a transfer from Central Michigan, started the rally with a single and was sacrificed to second by Greg Rodems. Pullano's double made it 2-0 and offset Spring Arbor's lone run in the sixth. Bartlett finished with a flourish, striking out the side in the seventh to wind up with eight strikeouts. 
The Irish spell was broken rudely in the opening stanza of Sunday's 
One goal made by Fran Cackley with assists from Tracy Blake and Pat Croci was all that was needed to shutout Vaparaiso 1-0. 
Patty DeCoste. a senior playing the sweeper position on the team, saw Saturday's games from a slightly different perspective. Because of an injury. DeCoste was sidelined and able to watch the team's performance. 
"It's my fourth year, and I think this is our best team. It's the most athletic and the most dedicated," DeCoste commented. 
*Observer 



Sports 
The team had fall trv-out5 to repbce th~ graduating members. Hotvedt's squad now carries I 9 women. all of whom have had experience playing the sport. Both Hums and DeCoste made a point of the advantage this has created for the new season. 

The team travels to Goshen College this Wednesday for their next game. The field hockey season culminates with the state tournament Nov. 3-5 hosted by Ball State this year. 
recognized as one of the top teams in the nation; depending on how we do against them may determine whether we a.re invited to the playoffs." 
Van Meter also elaborated on the team's performance thus far. he talked of a ''new offense'' designed for more scoring which "creates openings with a short passing game." He added. "the players had some difficulty learning the new system, but are improving day by day."· 
However, the defense remains Notre Dame's strength. Van Meter credits asst. coach Todd Cooper for getting the players into condition and running the defense. With the imminent return of starting goalie Brian Culather,'the defense should be even better. 
The next game for the Irish is Wednesday afternoon at 4:00p.m. against Valparaiso University at Stepan field. Friday night, the Irish tangle with a tough Michigan team at Cartier Field following the pep rally. 
contest. when Oakland University exploded for five runs. Mike Deasey struggled throughout the bombardment, allowing two doub­les and four singles in the inning. Notre Dame chipped away valiantly but could only make it 8-5 by the time an Oakland reliever extin­guished the final Irish outburst. The result might have been reversed had not Simendinger missed a grand slam homer by three feet in the fifth. 
Impressive weekend perfor­mances were turned in by the amazing Pullano; sophomore left­ticlder Mike Jamieson, who batted .418 on five for twelve; new centerfielder Dave Bartish, who was three for seven and fielded flawlessly; and Saturday's heroes, Bobinski and Bartlett. 
It is important for Notte Dame to establish a winning pattern during the fall. The elements needed to field a winner seemed to be present this weekend. Kelly indicated that with the leadership offered by Pullano and Bobinski and the continued striving for excellence by every player the Irish could enjoy one of their finest seasons. 
' 
--·---'-'*"..... -''" 

The Notre Dame baseball team opened their fall season winning 
lwo out of three games. 

Yanks, Bosox win 
NEW YORK IAPI-Reggic Jackson DETROIT lAP!-Jcrrv Rem1··., run­and Lou Piniella slugged consccu-scoring single in th~ lith-inning tive home runs and Mickcv Rivers' gave Boston a S-4 victory over the infield single snapped a~ eighth-Detroit Tigers Monda~· night. keep­inning tie a'> the New York Yankee'> ing the Red Sox 2'12 game'> behind topped the Milwaukee Brewers 4-J the lir-.t-place New York Yankees Mondav night. in rlw American League Ea\1. 
Cecil Cooper·., '>econd home run Hutch Hobson walked leading off of the game had tied the '>Core 3-3 the lith and Jack Brohamer fol­in the top of the eighth against Ed IO\ITd with a pinch-hit '>ingle off Figueroa. IH-9. lo'>l'l' Steve Baker. 1-.l. 
In the bottom of the inning. the John Hiller came in and got 
. Ya•1kces loaded the ba-.c'> on a hit D11·ight Evans to ground out and bahman and a pair of walk'>. the ·Rick Hurlc'>on to hit into a tiddcr'., '>Ccond to pinch-hitter Cliff John-choice. with pinch-runner Frank son. who fouk-d off seven pitdlL''> Duffv thnmn out at home. before getting the ba'>e on balls Rcm1 followed 11ith hi.. line from lo'>l'l' Bill Travers. I 0 I 0. '>ingk. Ron . LeFlore might haH' With the infield in. River'> drove a had a '>hot at pinch-runner Garn ball nil '>llllrt'>top Robin Yount's Hanu>ck at the plate. hut oH·rra;l glove. dcliverii1g the winning run. the hall. An1h· Hassler. 3--l. the third Red Sox piirhn. wa'> th!' "inner. 
Bouton adds spice to baseball's life 
LOS ANGELES !API -Baseball. it is said. is a little like drama -the art is best when there is some comic relief to temper the high passions of the play. 
This is why Casey Stengel. with his crazy logic and convoluted English. is the game's patron saint. 
This is why no one can tell you who won the home run titile in 195I. but lots of school kids know that 195 I was the summer the St. Louis Browns inserted a midget named Eddie Gaede) into the line-up as a pinch hitter in a game against the Tigers who walked. 
If 1978 is remembered as a great baseball year, and it most likely will be. no small credit should be given its abundance of comic relief. 
Few would argue that New York, normally a nervous town, became fairly hysterical when its Yankees were embroiled in the Martin­Jackson-Steinbrenner brouhaha. 
And when the season entered its final month, hot-tempered races were aflare in all four divisions of the major leagues. 
And then came Jim Bouton, plopping right do~n in the middle of it all like the impervious drop-in neighbor who doesn't care if you are late for a date with the Jones'. He wants to chat. 
The Dodgers, the first big league team to face Bouton in seven years. were beside themselves when At­lanta Braves owner Ted Turner decided to bring the old man up from Double A in the heat of a pennant race. But something happened when Bouton took the mound. 
The balls he. threw did strange things on the slow journey to the plate -they bobbed and blooped and sometimes even danced past swishing Dodger bats. 
For three innings, Bouton kept the Dodgers hitless before they bombed him in the foll[th. The Dodgers weren't gentlemen. 
.. A disgrace to the game." said 
Dodger team captain Davey Lopes. 
who had struck out as opening 
hitter. A circus atmosphere. said 
Reggie Smith. who weakly 
grounded out in his only at-bat. 
The next week. the mightyGiants 
got their chance against the 39­
year-old rookie. and came up with a 
lonely run -unearned-to Atlanta's 

4. The Giants weren't gentlemen. either. 
"He got us out. but he doesn't 
have anything." said the Giants' 
Darrell Evans. "It was the most 
humiliating experience of the 

year." 
"I don't want to see him again," said Bill Madlock ''Bouton was a joke." 
And what a fine joke it was Madlock, a two-time NL batting champ. went hitless against Bou­ton. 
Bouton, this season's very own 

Falstaff. took it all in stride. 
"You see, there's a very big macho thing in sports," he said during a visit to Los Angeles after the Giant victory. "Ballplayers don't mind being overpowered, but they don't like being outsmarted." 
As for his return to baseball, with all the cameras and reporters, being likened to a circus, Bouton responded: , 
"Anybody who's ever been to a World Series knows what a real circus atmosphere is. It wasn't that bad. I mean, the Dodgers have seen cameras before, the Giants, too. Maybe they just didn't like where the cameras were pointing." 
The Giants themselves, he reminds us, once had a pretty good . pitcl:ter named Stu Miller "who made a career out ofthrowing slow stuff." 
"The rule only says you've gotta throw it over the plate, right? It doesn't say how fast it's gotta get there." 



