
sur er 
Volume 12, No. 107.5 April 1, 1978 




DLA claims responsibility for ACC bombs 
Mike Lewis Absurder Staff 

The Notre Dame Athletic and Convocation Center 
was completely destroyed yesterday when six bombs 
exploded simultaneously in various locations in the 
building. The Dillon Liberation Army, responsible 
for the kidnapping of the Grace Hall President last 
fall. claimed re~ponsibility for the bombing. 

No one was injured in the blasts, however. 
University President Fr. Teddy Hesburgh called 
from Paris to say the building was a total loss. 
"It'll take possibly 40 or SO cents to rebuild it," he 
said. indicating that a fund drive was already in 
progress. He also stated that he felt the alumni 
would be "generous in their contributions" and the 
money could be raised "hopefully by 1984." 
An unnamed spokesman for the DLA said the 
bombing was to protest University regulations 
banning lofts or other flammable constructions in 
the residence halls. 

Head basketball Richard "Dugger" Fipls said "I 
really hate to see the old building go," referring to 
the many spirited victories teams have earned in the 
ACC. "However, I think the old fieldhouse will 
more than meet the needs of both the basketball 
team and other sports programs at NO." 

God to speak at Commencement 

Michael Berberich Absurder Staff 
University President, the Rever· endTheodoreHesburgh. announced early today that God will be the featured speaker at the grad~ation ceremonies af ·thi" year's senior class. Hesburgh stated that God would be making what he termed a "major policy speech." For securi­ty reasons, the graduation will be held in the Fr. Edmund Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center. 
Additionally, so that large do­nors to the University can be in attendence, this year's seniors will be limited to one graduation ticket per person. "Seniors needn't worrv," stated one official, "we have" already reserved the best section of the bleachers for the parents. They have made sacrifi­ces for the last four years, and this is the least we can do for them." 
Hesburgh pointed out that will be the first ever appearance by God at a major American university. He added, "because of his advan­ced age, God doesn't travel as much as he used to, so we are really thrilled that he would take the time from his busy schedule to be here in honor of the class of '78." 

Many seniors expressed disap­pointment with the choice. Bill Alban, chairperson of the commit­tee to choose a graduation ~peaker, stated "We are really disappointed that Father Ted did not bother to consult the committee. He just went right over our heads without even telling us." Alban added, "The committee has put in many weeks of hard work. We had hoped to have either Howard Cosell, Doctor J. or Jane Fonda as a speaker." 
Charles "JoJo" Dressman has organized a petition and scheduled a demonstration on the steps of the Administration building for tomor­row at noon to protest the selection by the university. "We would have preferred a more contemporary speaker," he said. "However, because we would rather have all our families here. we can live with the selection if only the university will switch the location to the football stadium. l'm sure that our speaker could arrange good weath­er. Otherwise, we demand a new speaker." 
When confronted with the dis­pleasure of the seniors, one high ranking administrator who wished to remain anonymous responded, "Just who do they think is running this place? If the seniors-thought 
Fischer intruder escapes 
by Ray Rafter Novice Absurder Staff 
Yesterday, Fisher Hall resident Jim Shoo reported that a "per­verted" girl entered his unlocked third floor single room and awoke him. 
Shoo, who was unable to ad­equately describe the intruder, said that he contacted ND security immediately after the girl had left his room. Notre Dame Security Officers responded quickly and encountered an unidentified female leaving the area fitting the de­scription given by Shoo. The three Security men halted the fleeing

---.figure: ouf she e'scaped by k.Oock­
ing them in the snow and stealing their car. Security refused to comment on the incident. 
The intruder was described as a female Caucasian, 18-20 yars of age, and about five feet, three inches with shoulder-length brown hair. At the time she was wearing a green parka and afaded blue jeans and black boots. She appeared to have a whip slung over her shoulder. 
In reference to the recent assault in El Paso, James Rover, dean of students, said, "Even though the description of the intruder fits that of the woman rapist in El Paso, there is not enough to indicate a they-had a say in the matter, they Lastly, one official stated that were deceiving themselves. God's appearance at the University They've been here for four years, would give everyone the chance to they ought to know by now that we offer thanks. "After all," he said, could care less what they think. "we have had two national cham­They don't contribute enough to pionships this year." influence us." He added , "And in When contacted in the Vatican, accordance with past policy, any­God's press agent, Sr. Mary Chris­one who proteststomorrowwill have tmas, released a statement, saying fifteen minutes to disperse or be "God is delighted at having the faced with expulsion." opportunity of speaking for Himself 
AtSMC 

Student government dissolved 
by Jean Powley Absurder Staff 

Saint Mary's Student Body Pre­
sident Merry "Royale" Rock-the­
Boat last night announced a total 
dissolvement of SMC student gov­
ernment, with the exception of the 
position of SBP. as the last official 
act of her reign, which ends 
Monday. 
"Student Assembly, The Hall 
President's Council, The Board of 
Governance and all the various 
committees of student government 
have all tried to exercise too much 
power this year," she proclaimed 
before a hushed dining hall (absurd 
in itself). 
"Therefore, I have decided to 
dissolve all of these student 
government organizations. From 
this time on, the government will 
consist only of a SBP and a close 
company of advisers, with advisory 
power only, " Rock-the-Boat an­
nounced, arms upraised in a sacred 
manner. 
"In addition, I have decided that Reidinger House will henceforth be the SBP's official residence and the 21 Club her official receiving Hall. Students will take turns cooking and cleaning for the president, much in the way parietal duty is, at present, assigned. No complaints should be heard because such duty is an honor and an obligation. 
"After all, it would be absurd to 
lj_;._;:.,.k9utlalledJDL~'.t0t ~:.expect the president-to eat here-4lt 
SAGA with everyone else!!" she commanded. 
"Students with cars will have the added honor of chauffeuring the president around campus and the city. But remember, these vehicles must be kept perfectly clean and in good running order in order for the owner to become one of my chauffeurs," Rock-the-Boat conti­nued. 
"Oh, I almost forgot," Rock-the­boat said. "My residence will be the only building on campus with electrical power. Novena candles will be provided to all other students," she promised. 
Her final proclamation of the dinner hour was the fact that any student wishing to meet with her for any reason must schedule an "audience" with either her secre­
at the bastion of American Catho­licism." 
After graduation exercises, God will meet with Hesburgh, the Trustees, and a. large contributor to appeal for substantial donations to the Campaign for Notre Dame. Hesburgh stated, "We need more money if we are to keep Notre Dame from becoming a school accessible only to the wealthy." 
tary, Merry Lavatory, or her ser­geant-at-arms, John Dug-A-Coal­Mine, at least three days in advance. 
Rock-The-Boat then turned slow­ly, being careful not to trip over her newly-donned full-length powder blue, SMC insignia-ed cape, and paraded out followed by her advisers. 
The last girl in line carried a basket full of slips of paper which she threw out much like a flower girl strews flowers in a wedding procession. On each of the slips was written, "I thank God and the Saint Mary's student body for acknowledging my divine right to royal treatment for at least three days of my year in office. It makes the other 362 days seem worth­while!" 

·· ~-lfJMWWYtiMMMWW"ttiiiMNWWMMIMWWMIMMIIV 



Obscure Editorial 
*The Absurder 
a dependent newspaper totally subser­viant to the student government of Notre Dame-St. Mary's. 
The Absurder is an annual April 1st publication of the staff of the Observer, student publication of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. All stories are entirely ficticious in 
nature. The purpose of the Absurder is to provide humorous satire t? its reade~s in the spirit of April fool'.s Day and to poke· fun at particular campus im;titutions and person­alities. 
lohn Calcutt Executive Editor--Absurder Editor 
Barb Langhenry · --Absurder Editor 
Bob Varettoni Stud Reporter 
Tom Dowd Layout Staff 
Mark Perry Layout Staff 
Mike Lewis Stud reporter 
April 1, 1978 

Xou 0 j mqy .,, Zne:imxz~w? wi fqc ?xyqbzmyi ?t 00izlnzg Y?mz o:rb tfczj ~zgy. s0 qinti'mz szc0 rib-hwrd mavnimgf wrd f~zd a' nzj ypVpzg 10daf that m;j ypw:er p; krmj n yq Tne ()s~gvzg anb is lzgally0 wneb sy '&me \tqdzntyof tnz Qnpnrspf of Notre Damz wrd Saprt M\lgy'y V0Uzgz.g 
The Obszrver edp0 ry anb stax a~ your emplof zzs. Foq yfiarz tnz reypom;ib}litf JOr tnz pfbuct wz pfduve· Isn't it w;out tlfe ~ou cnevkeb uy out 
T?. o'llfw night -t}_qzs.. Feb· . ; Thz us serezg wilr nolb Open House for alr ~emseg; oxtnz Notgt Damz-SaPlt lVlarY's community· Fr0m 9 c.m· t0 ~dniibt 0 qt stwx wilr se on' hanb to 'vl'rrbuvl t0ury, Wlyj er kuestiony and snow f?q. tne rrewspw:er im actiom We h0 pz lou j ilr c0 mz awaf j itn a betterqnderstanding of noj yo'lf rrewspvpeg wot,s Wlb le\We sehinb y u some p:lzas omhow to mv.ke it w0 rK better· ' ' 
Rl lesy tnWI tjj o m0 ntny, tne current Ob~rve~ management'j ~ nanb over the pvper t next year's editor and stwx Freyhmen. soRhomorzs Wid jtin'iors we 
0

rrezbed n°w begin tgWnJlli tDr staJl poypions in an'departments next iear· In return for yoqr time and twznts, we can °ffer: 
".An Jllyibz lo0 k at MD-SMV: its orgarrizatiom its polivies and the people who rumit. 
-Training in slqlly that are useful in many a~as of-lifz. Almost eezry group, c?mpWiy and organ}EatJ!>n in the country gety involvzd in promo'i?ns. wivertising and cubli£atw.ns ..somebody besigns and writes wr th sz t.raae magazines, public ~lations brovtm:n:s and cataloguey). 
-A large enoufh salary in most areyq to keep yoq in Co e and popcorn fr0 m the Huddle or voffei.imb bonuts x-0 m Darby's. 
-An opportunity to meet new Wid 
iiitzresting peopn:!--staff. adminp;tratog;. ' 1V!Q~ thamthat. wz hope that manf 0 x other students, visiting lectu~rs. faculty,
T • I 
Lack of lighting 

you will want to tv.kz w pzrsonar haml m etc. ma~ng four nej ypaper the best p vam -lm spite of all our hard work and p0 yS'ibly be. The Observer needy writers, ovcasional sleeclzss nights, we do have causes tuition risea~isty, salespeopre, production j orkzg;, fun. '\Ye enjoy working wph each otheg 
by And By The escorts will wait for St.

oXlice stafx-peopre j ph all bifferznt and we tv.ke pride Pl covering campus Absurder Staff Mary's studt>nts in the dark alleyba~roundy and integtyts· If you h\We m:ws w; best wz eWl. between the Administra­experiznce, greatS if not, j e'll train you. lqJn uy tomorrow night om the toe floor tion Building and Washington Hall. Many 0 f oug szst peoclz nwi nzver j ritten 0 f LaFortune for rex-eshmems wrd a closer The Administration announced he said. They'll be wearing trench 
yesterday that the tuition will coats, "and one or two may be

a storl or demned wpage betDre. look at youg nezwspapzr. 
increase $50 a student next semes­carrying a brown paper bag," he ter to help alleviate the lack of added. lighting on the Notre Dame cam· Joy also revealed that a major pus. motion picture company has signed 
the Notre Dame Security Depart­"We're going to issue miner's ment to star in its next feature.
helmets to all female students, The film, called "The Securitystarting with the August registra­Department Without a Gun," willtion," Executive Vice-President Al­be "a rollicking adventure storymond Joy announced yesterday. 
full of daring do," according to 
In addition, Joy announced that Joy. male students will receive small In one scene, Joy said, two Notre flashlights with "Duracell Batter­Dame students using their new 
ies." He also outlined plans for flashlights late at night will be an escort service between the arrested for impersonating a car ND-SMC campuses. Irving to sneak on campus. 


Security reports elephant not sighted 
by Barb Langhenry taken with him for the folks back Absurd Executive Editor home. Peers is upset about the nasty rumors he has heard regarding his 
· • An elephant was not seen on men's handling of the incident. campus last night," Director of "We were there with our ND Security Art Doesn't Peer, empha­elephant repellent and ND eleph­tically stated yesterday. "Some­ant nets to apprehend the criminal, thing as big as an elephant would but he did not show up, so we did have been spotted by my men or not act on the incident." quickly apprehended," he added. "It does seem odd that an 
Sources who prefer to remain elephant would not appear on anonymous, say the elephant did campus," Jim Rover, dean of not trample any small children, studt!nts, stated. "Peers men did

Price trapped 
hippies or football players. The good, though, by being on the Edmund Price was found with his head wedged between two shelves; in the North L>ining Hall elephant reportedly did not storm spot." The criticism that they acted yesterday morning..when firemen asked how it happened, Price explained "I was just reaching in into Fr. Teddy Hesburgher's office is unfounded, he added. for the last bowl of 1ello." and demand to have his picture Nurse Brutel at the Infirmary, err, 
Student Health Center, stated mat no students reported seve1 e bruises, lacerations or elephaut

T'he Absurder agrees 
bites yesterday, but the report of an epidemic of Bubonic Plague is true.



t•~ implement suggestions 
•'There is no need for alarm 1lhe Committee to Improve the Tenth Place --One licorice Stick though since epidemics are an Absurder has released its first All ten students will also be everyday thing," she reassured the 
study, and the Absurder Editorial taken on a tour of the Potawatomie students, noting that they should Board has agreed to implement its Zoo. stay up all night and drink beer. suggestions. Results of_ a reader­
ship survey show that the only thi:ngs students are interested in are sports and studies. Therefore, 
Bug found in cold capsule

all sports will now be reported on the front page. This will enable Absurd Editor's note: contents, according to the suit. students to see their favorite This Is for real folks. He forwarded the insect to the stories without turning the paper MINNEAPOLIS [AP) -A man who U.S. Food and Drug Administra­over. Also, a weekly list of the top opened a cold capsule to investi­tion which identified it as a click ten students in each college will be gate an advertised claim that it beetle, the suit says. reported. The students will be contained "600 tiny time pills" has Ever since, Foslien says, he has awarded as follows: filed suit against the manufacturer been paranoid about taking pills. First Place --Gold Star on grounds that his discovery of an An attorney for the defendants -Seeond Place --Silver Star insect inside the capsule made him Smith Kline Corp. and its sub­Thitrd Place --Bronze Star paranoid about taking pills. sidiary, Menley and James Labora­Fourth Place --Purple Heart Patrick Foslien seeks $50,000 in tories -asked Judge Patrick Fitz­Fifth Place --Lollipop damages from the maker of Contac gerald to dismiss the case yester­Sixth Place --One jawbreaker in a Hennepin District Court suit. day on grounds that a person Seventh Place --Tootsie Roll His suit says he was about to take cannot claim damages for mental Eighth Place --Piece of bubble one of the capsules in 1976 when he suffering unless some physical gum decided to open it and study it. disability also has been suffered. Ninth Place--One lifesaver (choice He found a hole in the side of the The judge took the motion under of flavor) :--. -.• capsule and a tiny insect among the advisement. 





Search Committee narrows its list 
by Tim Zweber's Roomate you to sleep, but you dream that AbsUJ'der Staff you have insomnia. "Sure, I am for Co-Ed dorms," Poindexter said. "If all the Ed's 
The Provost Search Committee want to live together, let 'em. As has narrowed its list to three long as they don't break parietals." possibilities. Auditions for the candidates 
One is "Sweet Polly Purebread" were held yesterday afternoon in a child cartoon star and an itinerant Washington Hall. Cries of "Let's administrator whose previous see some more legs" rose from the Notre Dame related jobs included less··r dignitaries on the Search cutting the sexy pictures out of Committee as JoeOrangegrove back issues of Esquire in the leprachaun, performed his flag Library and teaching Adrian Dant­act. leyhow to say the word "sopho­Orangegrove suggested that as • more." Provost he would invite the DePaul 
basketball team to an outing on the"She's got curves that Euclid 
15th floor of the Library. When never dreamed of," one official remin.ded that the Library doesn'tnoted. "But her IQ resembles that have a 15th floor, Orangegroveburst of low swamp life. At least out in uncontrollable laughter. 
everyone, with the possible excep­In a related story, two moretion of the Finance department, administration officials resignedwill feel safe knowing that they will yesterday. "This is getting justbe smarter than the provost." 
ridiculous, " noted Brother Just­A second possibility for the job of Passingthru. He added that theProvost is the Notre Dame Glee current administration is lookingClub. The SO-odd members of the everywhere, "under rocks andclub paced back and forth in unison paperweights" for new people.
yesterday morning as they ner­"We raided 'The Torch' thevously awaited their community other day and came up with three 
mpus quarantine
shower. 
candidates for the Director of The Student Health Service announced yesterday that a portion of the campus has b~en"We think we've got a shot at Housing Office," he added optim­quarantined because of an outbreak of the bubonic plague. Students in the area designated abovethe job," they said. "But we'll need istically. 
are warned that if they venture out into an unaffected area, they'll turn into frogs. 
more office space." Passingthru was seen yesterday 
The final possibility is Piondex­wandering aimlessly around cam­ter, another childhood cartoon star pus with a lamp in his hand who was the inventor of sleeping mumbling something about "look­



You be the staff reporter! 
pills for neurotics. The pill puts ing for an honest trustee." 
Do It yo111'8elf meeting story should exer-the proposals first." Absnrder Staff cise caution to avoid-----. The controversy arose when the 
ag­, backed by the reed. "This is good for the , passed a ----,the resolution making and

Passingthru tells EDITORS NOTE: The reporter was -----,but more important------. The proposal then unable to attend the ly, it is essential for the good of the had to be for meeting , so please fill in this story campus." final approval, but was ----­for yourself. Concerning the proposed --­instead.
everyone to bug off 
------, which met oppo­---------saidhe by Jack Pizzaonotalato While crushing a pencil in his sition at the ------meet­nows plans to scrap the proposal 
Absnrder Staff teeth, Passingthru assured this The ing last week, ----entirely, and advocate total --­reporter that there was no truth to unanimously voted last week to said "I feel the ----­----------, since the fact that he would be leaving support the in should approve the proposal, be­"no one really gives a 
Brother Just Passingthru. vil · Notre Dame to go work in Phoenix. its actions for the removal of--, cause my mommy said so." He anyway." president for Student Intrigues, AZ. "t#&?Y2!/!=YJ##!!!!," from the Uni­also mentioned that several --­In other matters , the-·---­announced today that it is "no­Passingthru noted. versity campus, and heard ---­and were in body's business" whether he is When asked, however, why he ---------speak out a­need of such a------discussed planning to retire from the Univer­was wearing sunglasses, a somb­gainst -------aproposal ------Chairman -­sity at the end of May. rero, and Bermuda shorts, Passing­for---------------------noted, "I'd like ----and 
"I don't have to tell anybody, thru explained that he had acciden­"1 think the is right to thank -------for ------. They also passed anywhere what I'm doing , " Pass­tly left his other suit of clothes in in its efforts to abolish , adressing the ---tonight, but ingthru told an Absnrder reporter his new cadillac convertable. ----said, noting that the I'd rather he would and gave --------­in a high voice while standin~ on top of his office chair. 
"When I go, if I go, not evcfi the University will know about it," Passingthru further remarked. He 
High Court rules in favor ofSludge
indicated that Notre Dame Presi­dent Father Teddy Hesburgher had by Gregory Solman not have received such training had Washington politicians have set a discrepancy in rulings here. I amleft "little notes" under his door Absurder Staff he not been brought up in an area long standing precedent that I will properly pissed."
begging for some information on 
of the city with a People Bumping not challenge."
when Passiflgthru would be retir­Univac will begin working as a
The Supreme Court today ruled in Into Oosed Doors rate of fifty per
ing. As a result of the ruling, Sludge carpenter's assistant next week for 
favor of the ''Society for Prevention day?"
"I told Fr. Hesburgher that he will receive his job at NASA, his brother-in-law in Baltimore.
of Job Discrimination by Brains," Today's decision reversed a fed­
can't believe every cruddy little replacing Mr. Jack Univac, a recent 
in the now famous SPJDB versus eral appeals court ruling in New When asked why he wanted the 
rumor that the Absurder prints MIT graduate with degrees in
the National Aeronautics and Space York, where Judge Igo Bothways job as a computer programmer in
about me." Passingthru recalled. Aerospace engineering and Com­
Administration, (NASA), case. had previously ruled, "I think we the first place, Sludge, who admit­
"But then again if I clear my desk puter Programming. 
The plantiff, Mr. "Turk" Sludge can justifiably discriminate against tedly has an alcohol problem, wasout and take a little walk one day; of the East Bronx, claims that he those without brains in cases where "Manifestly," commented Uni­quite incoherent. But he did men­well, who knows?" 
was unfairly discriminated against the national security is con­vac, who also picked up a minor tion an attraction to, as he put it, in his quest for a job as a NASA cerned." degree in Hegelian philosophy "them pretty lights on the panel computer programmer because, as Judge Long heartily refuted that while in school, "there appears to box, flickin' on and off, on and
Weird lectures 
he put it, "I ain't got no fancy­statement, saying, "years of be, if I might say so, a slight off...." schmancy degree." Mr. Sludgein Galvin Center ended his education voluntarily in 
the eighth grade. · Professor lam Weird of the Indiana The landmark decision means that University Chemistry Department intelligence can no longer be used will give a lecture entitled "The as a determining factor in job effects of xzyopermentosdemono­employment. Any employer must logoy on the Jufertoput of the now delete any reference to educa­Fingernails" tonight at 7 pm in the tion or intelligence on job forms, Galvin Life Science Center Audito­and must legally accept an "x" for rium. The public is invited and a signature on an application. advised to bring plenty of beer. Justice Hugo Long commented, 
"I think there is increasing evid­ence, and many case studies have shown that intelligence is essential­
Varettoni seeks 
ly environmentally determined. In Mr. Sludge's case, can the courtemployment truly say that he would not have had an IQ above 52 had he been 
Bob Varettoni is looking for a raised by an intelligent family in job. Compantes must submit their upper suburbia?" resumes to him by April 15 in "Can this court justifiably give 
order to be considered as an credence to the defense's_ com­employer. plaint that the plaintiff has no 
The "Bob VarettoniSmoker" will training in math, science, english be held tonight at 10 pm in the or any of the essentials?" Senior Bar .. I ;verettoni will show up Long continued, "I don't see the late, and allow1 major oil company. relevance in such complaint. I executives to buy beers for him.. mean, who's to say that he might 

1.L:wO__t~h!.J..:e!llf.__.:!olf.lb-s.!ii!e~rviCe!iU_r_____________;A~pEril 1, 1978 




Ptooey eclipses longest 
mass record in Sacred Heart 
by Gregory Solman Absunler Stall 
It took hundreds of years of grooming/ Notre Dame priests for the task ... decades of preparation and training. And it took Father William Ptooey to make the dream a reality. which he did last Sunday, when he set the modern day record for the longest mass in history. 
It was a beautiful. crisp. cool, clear day within Sacred Heart Church last Sunday when a hearty and vociferous crowd showed up in force to watch Ptooey try to execute the mass in the slowest time yet st·cn. With a heartstopping and r('cord breaking three hour, thirty­tive minute mass, Ptooey dev­a~tated the old record, set way back on Easter Sunday, 1773, by Pope Clement XIV at the Vatican. 
fension exploded into noisy cheering as Ptooey made his ap­pearance at the back of the church, nodding appreciatively to the crowd being fomented into a fervor by the sounds of the Notre Dame Fight Song being played resplend­ently on Sacred Heart's new organ. 
''This is one of the main reasons we bought the organ," commented choir director and cheerleader Se­cond-Seeded Martin, who arranged the flowers brilliantly to slow down Ptooey's entrance into the church. 
After Father Ptooey had leisurely strolled to the foot of the altar, stopping along the way to shake hands with his adoring fans, Bro­ther Just Parcheesi, who was timing Ptooey's opening "split" in a nearby pew, signaled to Ptooey that he was running too fast. 
"He was a full two minutes earlier than Hesburgher was in '73," commented a concerned Parcheesi, "and you know how that one ended up," Parcheesi started to break down in emotion, "I had to slow him down. We had trained so hard for this. We spent weeks on the homily alone!" 
Ptooey was still at a critically fast pace at the end of the Liturgy of the Mass, but bravely, he went straight on into the Liturgy ofthe Eucharist. 
Ptooey came back in all of his ecclesiastical glory, however, dur­ing the consecration of the euchar­
.. 
ist. He was running a full four and one half minutes ahead of the Pope's record when he got to the phrase, "do this in memory of 
me.'' 
All breaths were collectively taken in when Ptooey lifted the chalice aloft, arms stretched way above his head. Minutes passed. Rivulets of sweat cut paths in Ptooey's brow. After five minutes, the crowd broke out into applause and cheering. By ten minutes, the crowd was on its feet, cheering on 
the brave priest, the strain of 
holding the chalice now showing in 
his pain-racked face. 
Fifteen minutes later the chalice 
came down. The crowd responded 
with tumultous applause--a display 
of chalice raising not seen since the 
days of Johnnie Zahm. Flashbulbs 
began to pop all over the chLirch, 
resplendantly reflecting off the 
stain glass windows. It was evident 
that there was no stopping Ptooey 
now. 
"That's where the weightlifting 
really came in handy," reflected 
the proud coach Robert Griffer, 
who, in his prime days, could spin 
out a nastily long sermon himself. 
''who could complain about the 
nautilus now?" 
"I knew--and Dahby knew," com­
mented Griff, "That there was only 
one critical stage left. The handing 
back of the water and wine bottles. 
Had Ptooey dropped either one-­
disqualification." 
Yes, the dreaded handoff, bring­ing back memories of Father Gonyers on Easter Sunday in 1972, Hesburgheton the Feast of the Immaculate Conception in 1964 and Badin on the second Sunday of Advent in 1864. Would Pt;JOey follow in their fumbling footstt~ps? 
But the handoff went smoothlv, as Ptooey took it behind his back \vith the precision of a sprinter receiving a baton in a relay. Having seen the critical stage pass, the crowd settled back, and braced them­selves for the finish. 
Adoring fans now surged toward the altar awaiting the final blessing when they would explode tradition­ally onto the altar area to pry souvenir pieces from the Bernini Altar. 
The crowd got so boisterous and large, that WSND's Wally Robin­son was forced by the madding crowd, to the top of Father Zahm's crypt to see the action for his radio audience. 
"Ptooey looks in tremendous f,lrm today,'' he cried, hoarse from the excitement, "and these perky post­pascal pew people are really enjoy­ing this mass' execution." 
There were, as always, skeptics in the crowd. Father Tom Bland, who had researched the event for the Notre Dame archives, commented on the breaking of the old pa:pal record. "There are advantages that Ptooey had that we must take into consideration. Besides the Ifact that he has had modern training methods, you have to remember that in the days of Clement XIV. the robes were heavier and hotter, bad for an endurance mass of this nature. Plus, where as Ptoo~::y's record was timed with a Dellllxe Gruen Stopwatch, Clement's re­cord was timed with a sand dial." 

Dug-A-Coal-Mine dies from electrification 
"But, Jet's face it," admitted Bland. pointing to Coach Griffer, "He won for the old Griffer. And besides...there are modern pro­blems that Ptooey had to en­counter. For instance, today's hosts are much lighter and easier to distribute ... that can speed up a mass tremendously, and ruin a good time." "And then there's the change from Latin to English," concluded Father Bland, "Which is a ·dis­advantage to Ptooey. You see, the old priests could add portions in Latin. thus extending the mass, and only other priests would know the difference.'' "In all." concluded Bland, "It was an adequate performance. But it won't be long before it's bro­ken Father Ptooey, basking in his win, had something to say about that. "Well. I felt really good today, there's no doubt about that. l worked tremendously hard toward this point in the season, and I knew after the passing of the wine bottle Crowded Bars? that I had it all wrapped up." Recently The Absurder followed up complaints voiced by several"If the records broken it's bro­students concerning overcrowding in bars near campus. Whenken," said Ptooey methodically, a photographer visited one establishment incognito he stopped"I'm just glad that I was given the this action on a crowded dance floor immediately after beer hadtalent and the chance to compete.". be~n poured down the pants of both of the dancers.  
Dom Headsman Surgery Six-Pinter -( ~1 you thought ~ou were through with reading this boring pre-game column which really said nothmg about upcommg Notre Dame athletic contests. Well. you were wrong. Just because there are no important games on the horizon doesn't mena I can't churn out some jock jibberish about Notre Dame games and players of the recent past. The first game I'd like to mutter about is Notre Dame's loss to Duke (I bet you never thought anyone from Sports Information would ever bring up a game in which we actually lost.) Everyone knows that we (Ooop~ ....l forgot I'm ~upposed to be objective) should have won that game; unfortunately, Coach Dugger Flips took a vacation m the fir~t half of the ~arne. He just sat there on the bench soaking inthe fact that he had finally reached the Fmal Four whtle the Blue Devils (that's Duke's nickname in case you didn't know) raced to a big lead. When Dugger woke from his first half dream he found himself 14 point~ down .. Dugger did a fair job of getting the team psyched for the final stanza (hey, I'm getting almost hterate m my old age) but he stayed with two of h is stalt'ters too long. Colli Thepuker, a normally poise~ frosh. lost m~st of ~is co_ol during this game and he was not very effective. Maybe he has b~en spendmg too much hme wtth hts cheerleader friend, you know, Bucky Beaver. After all, his shootmg percentage has fallen below the 60 percent mark once this relation flourished. The other starter, Dave "The Twirler" Baton, wasn't very effective either. But his performance was at least excusable, Duke coach Foste Lager told his troops to stop Baton even if it meant breaking the rules. Great strategy, huh. · The: second game I would like to talk about is the only Joss which our national champion football team suffered last seaso?·. Mississippi really was not as good a team as they showed on that sweltering S~t~rday afternoon.· m Jackson. Ifthey had been then their Coach Darn Stupid never would have lost hts J~b at the end of the season. How did our (Ooops ... I did it again) superteam ever lose to this group of stiffs? Co~ch Hank Heavenly commented, "Well, er, I just think that our boys gave their best." Not one to gtve ex..: uses. Heavenly continued, "But the thing which really beat us was the heat." Well. next year maybe we should only play games north of the Mason-Dixon line. Finally. I would like to present some well deserved awards to certain basketball personalities. Here they are: Best defensive position on a basketball court-Doug "Dirt" Williamson. Williamson invented thenow famous "Look Out" defense in his freshman year and has proceeded to develop many variations of it. His "!ost recent nuance of this defense is entitled "Ole" and has Williamson doing his impression of a Spamsh Bullfig_hter on _the hardcourt. He performed this defense frequently during any game when he faced a relattvely qmck opponent. This Washington D.C. native will long rembered for his defensiv prowess. Best mime job on ~ basketball court -Dugger Filps. Never one to criticize his players during the co~rs~ of a game, Flips never says a word. One of his players Butcher Fleuers says, "I just love brmgmg my parents to our games because even when I make a mistake I stay in the game and Filps never yells at me. The fact that he never yells has built my confidence tremendously." Fewest appearances at Clnabar's during the season -Jacksonville "Tea" Bullridge. Never on the discos premises during the off-season, this good ole southern boy always hits the sack early before home games. ~e':fest appearances at Corby's -Dill 'Biackshoes' Lamebrain. He is another class-going, bar avotdmg basketball player. A great example for serious-minded students Well those are just a few of my thoughts on the subject of Notre Dame sports of the past; next year should even better.  
Intruder steals secur••ty car The bed is next to the door, under encounter with Security,[continued from page 7] the window." laughed heartily and added, "I'mdirect tie-in." Upon learning of the girl's glad she didn't make it to theShoo who had been sleeping said he was aroused around 4:30 a.m. when he felt a hand massaging him Key named best bodyunder the blankets." He said that he was incoherent from sleep, but he soon discovered that both his P.J. Bustle, HPC Chairman, HPC for wasting precious wood  

by D.P. Hogan Absunler Stall 
A graveside service for John Dug-A-Coal-Mine, President of Saint Mary's College, will be held
in the courtyard of Le Mans today at 1 p.m. after a campus-wide luncheon presided over by Charfes 
A. Flim-Flam. The menu, ac­cording to Flim~Fiam, will be appropriately sorrowful, the main ceurse dubbed "Hank's Surprise" 
Dug-A-Coal-Mine's untimelydeath occurred yesterday in his home when he decided to plug in his refrigerator, since the loo year coal strike had finally ended. Unfortunately, when Dug-A-Coal-Mine chose to reconnect the power, his house happened to be flooded from melting snow mounds (resi­
due of the Blizzard of '78). Dug-A-Coal-Mine was instantly electri­fled. 
· . . 
Department, who will explain the electrical circuitry of refrigerators, while the chorus "mater Dolorosa" in the background. 
Dug-A-Coal-Mine Is survived by
his family, Merry Rock-the-Boat, Sr. Madeteva Ill (whose feast day, April 1st, happens to coincide w:ith the service) and the entire SMC community. 
M h" t h ldl
8S0C 1$ S 0

Happy HO
Ur 
The Notre Dame Masochistic Society will hold a happy hour today at the Memorial Library, from 6 pm to 5:30am. All members are instructed to bring calculators and slide rules. Whips and chaiJtls will be provided for advanced members. 
. 

The eulogy :-vtll be gtven by Prof.. , On spepa! .will..b~ tl)ree bl~l_r. previous occasion, ·~obviously the 
fainted last night while addressing the Hall Presidents, after learning from Executive Coordinator Tasty Key that a recent poll showed that the HPC was no longer "the most representative body at Notre Dame." Instead, the poll showed that 97 percent of the Notre Dame community felt that T~sty Key was the most representative body on campus. Key, taking over for the stricken Bustle, also announced resources due to Bustle's weekly deluge of handouts. 
In the final order of busyness, Aunt Ostal Chairman, John Loonie, fh, announced that Tasty would open up the Rainy Thursday festiv­ities by being in the dunking booth clad only in a small Aunt OstaJ T-shirt. Loonie pointed out that this decision was part of his goal to make Aunt Ostal "bigger and bette th' " 
hands were behind his head. He looked up in time to see a figure leaving his room. "I saw her leave, but I never got a good look at her," Shoo said. "I only know she was wearing a big winter coat and had dark hair. She did have a big ass, though." Shoo's description was of little ~se to ~ecurity. . 
Secunty beheves the mtruder must have been in the dorm on a 

~, ~..., ".!.·L..~~~~~~~ ~~e.. ~~~~~~~~~t,b;~b~~~J~~J:~.~:q~~~-tii;.wuh:)~·.:·~. t.n3.,~;er.A:w~ jn~i&atin.S uM :.• :....~!!.~~:...~ :-! ::.:.,..; 






