O'Shag light timers cause protests, humor 
by Mark Rust Staff Reporter 
In an effort to conserve energy, timing devices were installed over Christmas break on light fixtures in O'Shaugnessey Hall as a test for their effectiveness in reducing consumption. 
Because of the ticking of the timers and the short QO minute length, their arrival has prompted professor protests, student amuse­ment, and some confusion in the Maintenance Department over the general length of classes. 
Conceived by the Notre Dame 
Energy Conservation Department, 
the original idea called for a~ automatic device that would allevt­ate the problem of lights which burned all night, a common occur­ance in O'Shaugnessey, according to the Maintenance Department. 

"The switches were relatively inexpensive and they have been 'installed on a test basis," said John Moorman, assistant director of Maintenance, who oversaw the installation. "It is my understand­ing that if the savings are there, and if there are no personnel problems, they will be installed in all the class buildings." 


server 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's Vol. XII, No. 66 Monday, January 23, 1978 

·--Faculty protests have come mainly from professors who· teach 75 minute classes. Since the maximum time allowed by the device is sixty minutes, teachers can be assured of at least two interruptions a class. "It was my opinion that they :the classes) were all fifty," Moorman offered. "Anyway, it wasn't my decision-it was a committee decision." 
During the first of the test, students complained of the annoy­ing ticking sound during lectures, professors tolerated the sporadic interruption of lights clicking off, and one teacher reportedly had trouble with a fallen dial, and taught the remainder of the class in semi-darkness. 
In a recent letter to the Editor, Robert Kerby, associate professor of history explained the problem and, tongue-in-cheek, offered a solution. "I think there may be a problem here somewhere. Maybe someone with an engineering degree can figure it out." 
Because a flourescent bulb turned on and off only one time uses more energy than one left to burn for hours, it may appear that the device will increase energy rather than conserve it. The Maintenance Department is aware of this. 

"That is what we will be test­ing," Moorman said. "We will check the amount of energy used through overall consumption to see how much we save." He com­mented that while it is true that a bulb turned off and on uses an inordinate amount of electricity, ''we don't know what the differen­tial is yet. There is no doubt but that there will be savings." 
"Like I said, the primary pur­pose is for energy conservation. Our job is to test them to see if they are effective," Moorman said. As for the disruption in the meantime, Moorman allowed that "it will just be a matter of resetting them." 
Unacceptable ultimatums cited 
Israel pulls out of Cairo talks 
JERUSALEM [AP] -The 2 and no plans to recall lower-level Israeli public statments. 
Israel of sabotaging the Jerusalem Begin accused Egypt of waging a one-half-month-old Egyptian-military officials already in the He said Sadat made "ultima­talks and said he would not back ''campaign of vilification'' against
• Israeli peace drive, caught in a Egyptian capital for the negotia­tums that are totally unacceptable" down from demands for total Israeli Israel, and said he hoped the Cairo crosscurrent of distrust and bitter­tions. to Israel in his speech Saturday to 
withdrawal from occupied Arab government would "act to prevent ness, came to a virtual standstill Begin indicated Egypt would the Egyptian Peoples' Assembly. lands and for establishment of a repetition of statments injurious to yesterday as Israel decided to first have to soften the tone of its In that speech, Sadat accused 
Palestinian state. the dignity of the Jewis:. peoplesuspend the talks on a troop and the Jewish state." 
pullback in the Sinai Peninsula. 
The Israeli prime minister seemed The Israeli Cabinet met for 3 and to be alluding to Sadat' s descrip­one-half hours and voted not to 
NC govern•ar to review Wilmington case 
tion of him as "arrogant," and to rejoin the Cairo talks, which had the term "Shylock" used by the begun earlier this month after the RALEIGH* N.C. [AP] -Gov. 
been held in Paris and East Euro­strife. A white woman, since semi-official Cairo newspaper AI Christmas day summit meeting of James Hunt will go on statt~wide pean cities as well as the United paroled, was convicted of being an Abram to characterize Begin.
Egyptian President Anwar Sadat television today to announce a States in support ofthe defendants. accessory. The three key prosecu­Shylock, the name of Shakes­and Israeli Prime Minister Mena­decision on pardoning or reducing In North Carolina, petitions have tion witnesses, all black, have since peare's usurer in "Merchant of
hem Begin in Ismailia, Egypt. the sentences of the Wilmingto~ 10, been circulated urging the 40-year­said that they gave false testimony Venice," is a centuries-old anti­The Israeli action, coupled with whose case has drawn attemton 
old Hunt not to intervene in the because of threats of reprisal or semitic slur. 
Egypt's withdrawal last Wednes­internationally and become politi­
case, leaving the defendants to offers of favors. "Facing, this situation," Beginday from parallel political talks in cally volatile at home. • serve out their sentences. Two years ago, the U.S. said, "the government of IsraelJerusalem, brought the peace cam­The case of those charged in a The case arose out of the fire­Supreme Court refused to hear the decided to postpone the date ofpaign started by Sadat last Novem­firebombing during a 1971 racial bombing of a grocery store during appeal of the Wilmington 10 men, departure" of top-level Israeli ne­ber to its lowest ebb, and it seemed disturbance puts the first-term racial disturbances in Wilmington, who are serving prison sentences gotiators to Cairo to resume theto leave the United States with the Democratic governor between a city of about 45,000 locate on an ranging from 29 to 34 years. conference. 
task of trying to resuscitate the international and his constituency inlet along the North Carlina coast. After the state Court of Appeals Begin said Israel would review
talks. at home. 
The Rev. Benjamin Chavis II and rejected the group's appeal for a its decision "in the near future."
That job appeared to fall to U.S. Amnesty International, which eight other young black Wilming­new trial earlier this month, Hunt, He did not elaborate.
Assistant Secretary of State Alfred last year won the Nobel Peace ton men were convicted of the who had said a "reasonable time" King Hussein of Jordan said inAtherton, who arrived here Satur­Prize, has called the Wilmington 10 firebombing and conspiracy to fire should be allowed for the courts to an interview with Time magazineday for talks aimed at persuading "prisoners of conscience." The on emergency personnel during the [Continued on page ~] [c;;onttnued on page 6]both sides to rein in their rhetoric Soviet govenment has cited the 
and resume serious negotiations. case as an example of humari right 
Begin, reading a statement to violations in the United States. The reporters, left room for later re­East German press has sent repre­sumption of the Cairo talks, and the sentatives to North Carolina to Defense Ministry said there were report on the case, and rallies have 

St. Mary's seeks candid•ite for St. Catherine's medarl 
by Jean Powley The medal, sponsored by Kappa St. Mary's Editor Gamma Pi, the National Catholic Honor Society, had for many years For the second consecutive year, been awarded annually to an St. Mary's Committee of Academic outstanding sophomore or junior Standards is in search of a recipient until students' lack of interest in for its St. Catherine's Medal, an awards caused its discontinuance achievement award for sophomores in 1970. However, a significant and juniors. change in student attitudes promp-
Letters explaining the award ted the committee to request the were sent to all students, faculty, medal's re-establishment last year. and staff members last week There are no specific grade-point inviting them to nominate a student requirements for the medal and the for the award. nominees need not be Catholic. 
According to the letter, the Nominating letters should be purpose of the medal is to honor "a sent to the committee in care of superior student in her second or Gail Mandell, 134 LeMans Hall, third year at St. Mary's who, in the before Feb. 6. Letters containing opinion of the Committee on Aca-specific statements in support of a demic Standards, exemplifies the nomination will be given the great­high ideals of Catholic education est weight in the committee's for undergraduate women. Scho-deliberations. larship and service to the church, Presentation of the award will college, and ciy!c ~'?mJl!~ni!ie~ are , _ occur: at .the close. of the academic criteria for the award!• ' · · " -· · · -year. · · · · · ·" ·• • • ''· '.-· · -· · 

Smelser dies: 30-year professor 
Marshall Smelser, a Notre Dame 
historian whose interests ranged 
from the American colonial navy to 
Babe Ruth, died Wednesday in 
South Bend. He was 65. 
The funeral mass for Smelser 
was offered Saturday afternoon in 
Sacred Heart Church. He was 
buried in Cedar Grove Cemetary. 
A native of Joliet, IL, Smelser 
received his Ph.D. from Harvard 
University in 1948 and taught three 
decades at Notre Dame, serving as 
chairman of the Department of 
History from 1960 to 1963. He 
retired in May of 1977. 
A specialist in early American 
history and naval history, Smelser 
was the author of nine books, most 
of them scholarly works. His writ­
ing ranged over other fields, how­
ever, and his latest book, published 
in 1975, was a biography of Babe 
Ruth, "The Life that Ruth Built." 
In May, 1972, Smelser received a 
special presidential citation at 
Notre Dame in which his book, 
"The Democratic Republic," was 
described as the most impressive 
historical work written at Notre .Dame.'•r:~.-... , .• .• , , .. :,·., 

the observer Monday, January 23, 1978 

Weather Carter's tax proposal includes 
Partly cloudy today with highs in the upper 20s. Cloudy tonight with lows around 20. Chance for light snow tomorrow with highs in 

cuts, reforms, fewer deductions 
the low 30s. 

On Campus Today_--"" 
12:15 am  sean coug88.9 FM,  hlin,plays progressive rocnd  k,  WSND-FM  
4:30pm  lecture,"ascopy in nieuwlan lchemy of nucular spins & solids," pro. john waugh, d sci. hall sponsored by chem. dept.  nmr spectro­mit. 123  
7:20pm  duplicate duplicate  bridge, ladies of bridge, univ. club  nd, facu lty,  and  staff  
7:30pm  meeting, sparks systparks." sspeaker, l ummer employment recruitem by "a christian ministry in the national pon. by volunteer services, ibrary lounge.  ing in the nat. john schmidt,  
8:00pm  basketball , ND vs dartmouth, home  
8:00pm  meating, alcove  groundskeepers rights coalition, Iafortune  



Leaders optimistic on energy package 
WASHINGTON [AP] -A trio of congressional leaders agreed yes­terday that the House and Senate may be close to ending the natural gas pricing dispute that has stalled passage of energy legislation. 
. Differences between House and 
'Senate conferees over the proposed 
deregulation of prices on new 
natural gas prevented Congress 
from approving President Carter's 
energy program last year. 

House members of the confer­
ence generally favor continued 
price controls on natural gas. A bill 
passed by the Senate calls for 
deregulation, and the two sides 
were unable to resolve their dif­
ferences before recessing for the 
holidays. 

However, House Speaker 
Thomas P. O'Neill (D-Mass.), Sen­
ate Minority Leader, Howard Baker 
of Tennessee, and Rep. John 
Rhodes (R-Ariz.), House Minority 
Leader, said they believe Congress 
is moving toward some form of 
deregulation to break the stale­
mate. 

O'Neill said he based his opti­mism on the attitudes of lawmakers rather than on any new tallies of the votes of members of the House and Senate energy conference committee. 
Appearing on CBS-TV's Face the Nation, O'Neill said he believed the full House would support some kind of gradual deregulation over several years if such a plan were ·1pproved by the House conferees. 
Baker satd he feels there may 
now be some new-found flexibility 
among members of the conference 
panel. 

"Deregulation is the heart of the 
problem," he said. "I hope the 
administration will go along with 
deregulation at some point, prob­
Darby's Place reopens tonight 
Darby's Place, the late night haven for Notre Dame and St. Mary's students, will reopen its doors tonight for the second semes­
·•er. Located in the Rathskellar of 
the LaFortune Student Center, 
Darby's is open from midnight to 4 
a.m. Sunday through Thursday. 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r 
!"" OIJsenrer ~ ~ Allillllll ,  II Willi "' .,,, 111 ,  l ~ 1  
~  ~  

~Must IJe gootl lllth figures ~ ~ Info: Kathf or MarH at 7471,1 
~~~~~~~~~-~~~---~----~ 
ably accompanied by an excess 
profits tax. We may get a bill 
sometime this spring." 

Rhodes said he, too, was hopeful 
that a compromise on energy could 
be worked out soon. 

"It's a very complex issue," the 
Republican leader said. "I 
wouldn't want to put the onus of 
failure completely on Congress. 
The record of this administration 
has been very checkered as far as 
energy is concerned." 

Baker and Rhodes made their 
remarks on NBC-TV's "Meet the 
Press." 

Scholarship fund 
established 
by Fannings 
Talented but needy Notre Dame 
students will benefit from a series 
of scholarships established by a gift 
from Mr. and Mrs. Eugene D. 
Fanning of Winnetka, IL. 

Fanning, a 1953 Notre Dame graduate, is president of Fanning Cadillac, Inc .• of Chicago and is an owner-investor in the Chicago White Sox. Since 1976, he has served on the Library Advisory Council. He also serves on the board of the Chicago Catholic Charities and is chairman of the National Cadillac Dealer Group. Fanning and his wife, Frances, have two children. 
In accepting the scholarship endowment, Fr. Theodore M. Res­burgh, University president, said, "Talent should open the doors to Notre Dame, not ability to pay. That premise has long governed financial aid at the University, and the Fannings • generosity will enable us to help gifted students for generations to come who cannot pay the full cost of tuition." 
This year, 53 percent of Notre Dame students are receiving some form of financial aid. About one out of seven undergraduates receive aid from scholarship funds administered by the University, most of which are underwritten by
endowment. 

The Campaign for Notre Dame, the University's five-year develop­ment effort, is seeking $12 million to underwrite student fmancial assistance. To date, more than $70 million has been committed toward the Campaign's $130 million goal. 
WASHINGTON [AP] · President Carter, while calling for income tax reductions, is asking Congress to take away deductions for state and local gasoline, sales and personal property taxes and to reduce the allowance for medical expenses. 
But even with those changesd, the Carter administration says, the president's total program propo­sals would mean lower taxes for virtually all taxpayers earning less than $100,000 a year. 
When the tax cuts and the reduced deductions are combined the effect would be to lower the tax bill of a typical $10,000 a year four-member family by $312; at the $20,000 level, the cut would be $270. A single person earning $10,000 would pay $34 less; the 
$25,000 earner would realize a $245 reduction. 
In a message to Congress on Saturday, Carter recommended tax cuts for businesses and individuals 
The Observer Is published Mon­dey thrvugh Frldey except during eum end vK8flon periods. Tile Observer Is published by the students of Notre Deme Md Selnt Mery's College. Subscriptions mey be purdlned for no per yeer ($10 per nmester) from The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dime, lndiMI 46556. Second ctass post..• peld, Notre D1me, lndllnl, 46556. . The Observer Is 1 member of the Allodlted Pres&. All repro­duction rights Ire renrwd. 



Fifteen films featured in series 
This semester, the ND-SMC Department of Speech and Drama weill sponsor a series of American films entitled "When Movies were Movies." The series will include fifteen films .. one or two shown on each Tuesday from tomorrow until May 2, at 7:30 p.m. 
A series admission ticket costs $12 and will cover all fifteen films. The price of admission for each film or double feature will be $1. For ticket information call the Speech and Drama Office at 284-4141. 
The following is a list of the dates and titles of the movies in the series: tomorrow, "Stagecoach;" Jan.31, "Johnny Guitar;" Feb. 5, "Once Upon A Time in the West;" Feb. 14, "It Happened One Night;' Feb. 21, "Bringing Up Baby;" Feb. 28, "Sullivan's Travels." 
Mar. 7, "Adam's Rib;" Mar. 14, "The Golddiggers of 1933;" Mr. 28, "Top Hat" and "Stormy Weather;" Apr. 4, "The Pirate;" Apr. 11, "Murder My Sweet;" Apr. 18, "The Big Sleep;" Apr. 24, "Farewell, My Lovely;" -and May 2, "Night Moves." 
"Stagecoach," "lt Happened One Night," and "The Golddig­gers fof 1933" will be shown in O'Laughlin Auditorium. All other movies will be shown in Carroll Hall on the St. Mary's campus. 
J()lll lilt? ()f)§f?r~t?r 
* 
No experience necessary

* 
Opportunities for advancement 


For information contact: Martha Fanning 8661, 1715 Steve Odland 1478
*The Observer 
to keept the economy growing, and urged significant changes in the tax laws to promote fairness, simplifi­cation and investment. 
He proposed reducing the tax rates for individuals and corpora­tions; replacing the current $35­per-person tax credit and $750-per­person credit; liberalizing tax bene­fits for business investment in equipment; reducing opportunities for tax shelters, and slashing by half deductions for business enter­
tainment  and  the  "two-martini  
lunch."  
Carter  said  the  tax  cuts  are  

necessary to offset higher Social Security taxes and the effects of inflation and to help prevent the economy from slipping into another recession. 
But to pay for those tax cuts without massive increases in the federal deficit will require that Congress also approve his ''tax reforms" · that is, elimination of some of the deductions available to individuals and businesses. 
The tax cuts would be effective next Oct. 1. The changes in deductions would become effective in 1979. None of the changes would affect the tax returns due by April 17. 
In the lengthy written message to Congress, Carter was adamant about the desirability of making tax laws fairer, a key cmapaign promise. 
Rep. AI Ullman (D-Ore.), chair­man of the House Ways and Means Committee, had said earlier he thinks the $25 billion net tax cut is too high. He said about 515 billion would bemore desirable. 
CONGRATULATIONS! 
to the team and coaching staff for making us 



NO.1 
from 

ROCCO'S BARBER SHOP 
531 N. Michigan South Bend, Indiana 
lUESDAY Night We're Having A 


MILLER PARTY 
3 cans for $1 .00 barbeque polish. s~u~~ge potqto salqd special T-shirts on sale Featuring_ the finest in hickory ~\(ed barbeque -cooked over an open pit with s"edal sauce
.......

LEE'S 
Sen. William V. Roth, (R-Del.), sponsor of a Republican backed tax-cut plan, called Carter's pro­posal to replace the $750 persoaal exemption with a $240 per-person credit a scheme to "soak the middle class." 
*The Observer 
Night Editor: Joseph L. Bauer· Asst. Night Editor: Tracy Herman Features layout: Rosemary Mills Typists: Steve Odland, Mark Rust , Anne Giere, Rich Clari· zio Night Controller: Mardi Nevin Day Editor: Bob Bernoskie Copy Reader: Bob Varettoni Ad layout: Rob Civitello Photographer: Leo C. Hansen 
Get Well, Biz 

Wilmington case decision pending 
[Continued from page 1] 

resolve the case, said it was "an 
appropriate time for the govemur 
to make a decision." 

Chavis, who was sent to Wilm­ington to help quell the racial violence, got the longest sentence · 25 to 29 years on the burning charge and four to five for conspir­acy. He and his supporters contend authorities branded him a troublemaker and were out to get him, dragging the others int::> prison in his wake. 

Monday, january 23, 1978 

the observer 
Arabs, U.S. express Mideast views 
Vance: talks to reopen 
Arab moderates, hardliners 


within a week to 1 0 days 
criticize U. S. role in talks 
' WASBINGTON [AP] -Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance returned home yesterday expecting Israel and Egypt to resume their political negotiations, probably within a week to ten days. Direct talks may be held in Jerusalem or Cairo, said a senior 
U.S. official, who did not wish to be identified. 
Alternatively, Assistant Secre­tary of State Alfred L. Atherton Jr., who remained in the Middle East, would shuttle between the two capitals as a mediator. 
This forecast was based on an appraisal of Anwar Sadat's speech to the Egyptian Parliament Satur­day in which he said the peace initiative would not be dropped. 
He also said he is asking the United States to provide Egypt with "all the weapons that Israel pos­sesses." The arms re'quest will be considered and Congress could approve delivery of some lethal weapons to Egypt, the senior official said. 
As he stepped from his plane at Andrews Air Force Base, Vance said, "We believe it essential the parties put behind them the public exchanges of recent days and try to recapture the spirit of a ommon search for peace." 
A cross-fire of hardline demands and some remarks that bordered on the personal were believed to have contributed to the suspension of the negotiations. 
On the flight home, Vance singled out the conciliatory part of Sadat's speech. "I am pleased that it was made clear that the doo1r to peace is open," he said. 
"I believe that the objectivf~ of the parties remains the same-­mainly the achievement of a com­prehensive peace. We're going to have to persevere, working with the parties to reach that end. 
Sadat ordered the talks broken off last Wednesday even as Vance was narrowing the differences be­tween Egypt and Israel on a declaration ofd principles to g111ide future treaties. 
"We're in one of the downs now," the senior U.S. offical acknowledged. But he said he was confident the Egyptian Israeli military negotiations would be resumed, as well as a declara­tion of principles, although not in political committee form. 
Vance will report to President Carter today and convey Sadat's arms request. 
national game that will involve the
Sunbelt states likely 
Middle East and Red Sea areas." The Al-Rai Al-Am newspaper of

to gain representation 
WASBINGTON [AP] · Nine seats in the U.S. House of Repre­sentatives will have to be reappor­tioned, giving more representation to Sunbelt states, if current popula­tion patterns continue until 1980, according to figures released yes­terday by the Census Bureau. 
Florida and Texas would each gain two seats, and Arizona, Cali­fornia, Oregon, Tennessee and Utah would each add one represen­tative to their delegations because of projected population changes between 1970 and 1980, the study shows. 
New York would lose three seats and Ohio would lose two. Illinois, Michigan, Pennsylvania and South Dakota would each lose one seat. 
The statistics are included in a larger study, part of the Census Bureau's current population reports series, to be released soon. 
Southern and western states led the nation in population growth since 1970, while north-eastern and north central states experienced modest population increases, with more people migratin~ out ~han in. 
The population of the nation as a whole grew 6.4 percent between 1970 and 1977, to 214,669,000. Southern states grew by 11.2 percent over the same period, western states by 12.7 percent, northeastern states by 0.4 percent 
and  north  central  states  by  2.4  
percent.  
However,  Maine,  New  Hamp­ 

shire and Vermont bucked the overall trend in the northeast, growing faster than the national average. Maine grew by 9.2 per­cent, New Hampshire by 15 per­cent and Vermont by 8.7 percent. 
California had the largest in-following the 1973 Arab-Israeli generally reflect government war. policy. / 

"The United States has demon­Arab press reports last week said strated byond a doubt that it does Kuwait and Saudi Arabia were not want ... or at least is incapable , cooperating in an effort to patch the of supporting an even-handed solu­rift in the Arab world between tion," the newspaper said. supporters and opponents of 
The Saudi and Kuwaiti papers Sadat's peace moves. 


Drama student participates in scholarship competition 
by Diane WUson is divided into 13 regions, 
Senior Staff Reporter Walker explained and Notre Dame i 
belongs to the Great Lakes region, · 
Notre Dame senior John Walker which includes Michigan, Ohio, was chosen by the American Col­and Indiana. In each region lege Theater Festival judges to judging teams are sent around to compete for the Irene Ryan Foun­view college shows. The judging dation Scholarship, which was held teams consist of college professors. Jan. 4-6 at Wright Sate College in According to Greg Bain, chairman Dayton. of the ND-SMC Speach and Drama 
While Walker did not win the Department, ND-SMC entered regional competition, he stated that "Caucasion Chalk Circle." "it was a good learning experience. Notre Dame is an associate It was interesting to see what other member, Bain explained. This college theaters were doing." He means that a judging team comes · added that it was good in that it to view their production and give it brought lots of college actors critiques. Any students the judges together and allowed them to see select are eligible to enter competi­how they compared with other tion for the Irene Ryan Scholarship. college actors. Walker was one of ten students 
The American College Theater chosen from approximately 400 to Festival is held in conjunction with compete in the regional competi­the Irene Ryan Foundation Scholar­tion. According to Walker, each ship competition on a nationwide student performed two selections, basis. Irene Ryan was an actress one alone a:nd one with another whose last role was "Granny" on person. Walker performed selec­the "Beverly Hillbillies." Ryan tions from "Krapp's Last Tape" left funds for an ongoing scholar-and "Death of a Salesman." 
The winner of the regional 
ship for college actors. competition woij a $500 schvtarship 
For the competition the country [Continued on page 6] 
~********************************•f
* . * 


~ sophomore ski trip! ~ 
* * 
~ cannonsburg ~ 
* MICHIGAN * * * 
~ LIMITED TICKETS IN CLASS OF-;* FICE MONDAY-WEDNESDAY * ~ FROM 12:00-4:00 ~ 
* ~ saturday, january 28 * ~ * * 

~ $25 for rental, lift lesson & bus. ~ ~ $18 with yo-ur own equipment ~ 
* * 
•*******************************~ 
BEIRUT* LEBANON [AP] -Arab hard-liners and moderates alike sharply criticized the United States yesterday following the break-off in Egyptian-Israeli peace talks, and 
. some looked toward Washington for the next move in the Mideast deadlock. "It is up to the Americans now to speak to the world,'' said the Saudi Arabian daily newspaper At­Riyadh, echoing Egyptian Presi­dent Anwar Sadat' s appeal in a speech Saturday for amassing of public opinion against Israel. Kuwaiti newspaper called for reactivation ofthe Arab oil weapon. The conservative Arab monarch­ies of the Persian Gulf refrained from open attacks on Sadat' s solo peace initiative, saving their edi­torial censure for the United States, which was accused of failing to extract sufficient concessions form Israel. "If it the United States wants to be a friend of the countries in the area that are not influenced by Russia, then it must break the hand that insists on aggression and usurpation, using American sup­plied rifles," At-Riyadh said, refer­ring to Israel. · Kuwait's Al-Siyassah newspaper 
said the United States "is secretly shuffling the cards for an inter­
crease in population, with 1.9 million more people than in 1970, a 
9.6 percent increase. Florida and Texas were close behind, with 1.6 million new residents each. 
Florida's growth rate has slowed by a third since the early 1970s, while Maine, West Virginia, the Dakotas, Mississippi, Arkansas, Idaho, Wyoming and New Mexico are growing faster than they did in 
the  previous  decade,  the  study  
found.  
Fueled  by  the  oil  industry,  

Alaska had the highest rate of growth, 34.6 percent, followed by Nevada, 29.6, and New Mexico, 29.3. 
The District of Columbia had the largest relative decline in popula­tion, down 8.8 percent, followed by New York, 1.7 percent, and Rhode Island, 1.6 percent. 
Teacher exa1ms 
sign-ups 

this week 
Kuwait said the Arab oil states should launch a joint initiative "now that it is confirmed that Israel and America want a peace that would enslave the Arabs." 
''The whip of Arab oil must be reactivated now to remind the world, especially the United States, that Arab oil countries have offered many concessions and have frozen oil prices hoping the world will back the just peace in the Middle East. But to their disappointment, the world showed no apprecia­tion," the newspaper said. 
The Arab oil states imposed an embargo on shipments to the West 

SMC reporters: mandatory meeting 
There will be a meeting for all St. Mary's reporters Thursday at 6:30 
p.m. in the SMC Office (basement of Regina South). This meeting is mandatory. Reporters who cannot attend should call Jean at 4001. 
National Teacher Exami111ations (NTE) have been scheduled for Notre Dame on Feb. 18. Scores in these examinations are used by states for certification of teachers, by school systems for selection and indentification of leadership quali­ties, and by colleges as part of their graduation requirements. 
Prepared and administered by the Educational Testing Service of Princeton, the tests are designed to measure knowledge gained from professional and general education and in 26 subject-matter fields. 
Additional registration informa­tion may be obtained from Peter P. Grande, chairman of the ND Com­mittee on Teacher Education. Deadline for registration is Thursday. 
NIDam llndom in Thurher Tuesday January 24 
8pm 


Washington Hall one dollar

~ ....... , ... .. .. . ........ ,. . ......, " .-..........
~ 


.r---~--------------------------------------------~-----------,--~~----------­
4 the ·observer\.;.·.;>·-. ~-: ·Mpn~y, January 23, 1,78 -..... . .·.. ·.·,
.·~.'<'.' ...' "...... 

Criticism expected 
'Sesame Street 'to open on Italian TV 
techniques also are bound to elicit
ROME [API -"Sesame Street," countrieS" in the past decade, will the Cookie Monster, Grover and The leftists who control the the world's most popular children's go under the title "Open Sesame" the other Moppet monsters become Channel 2 network, which will air some criticism. The snappy, program, makes its debut on Italian in the Italian version, and Ernie part of the fantasy world of Italian the program, may be further amusing way that numbers and television today and program direc­and Bert will be rebaptized children, the sales of their toy embarrassed by the fact that the letters are taught to the young 
tors are braced for criticism. "Ernesto e Berto." models will become big business non-commercial "Sesame Street" viewer are basically a product of In a country where one in every The hour-long shows familiar to • for the state-run national television of the United States was financed the capitalist advertising world. three persons voted Communist in millions of American kids have network. by grants from American big The British Boradcasting Corp. the last national election, the been boiled down to tri-weekly half It has negotiated sales rights for business. One newspaper even refused to run the program, judg­commercialism associated with the hour segments. The stress on "Sesame Street" puppets, records, asked tongue-in-cheek whether ing it a teaching tool that left program here and its Madison · letters and numbers remains, but books and T-shirts that will flood some CIA money was involved. children too passive. Italian televi­Avenue-style teaching techniques most of the social comment has Italian shops. The commercial Program director Paola de Bene­sion at first turned it down because are expected to anger leftists. been cut as too specific to the overtones of the venture can be detti anticipates objections but they thought the methods too The U.S.-produced program, United States. expected to arouse the anti-capital­thinks they can be overcome. mechanical--and because the rights: which has spread to some 90 As Big Bird, Kermit the Frog, ist in many Italians. The "Sesame Street" teaching to "Sesame Street" products werf 

The Evelyn Wood challenge:
Bring the toughest textbook or reading material you own to tonight'sFree Speed Reading Lesson and we'll show you how to read it faster, with comprehension! 

If you're like most people, you're probably skeptical We'il show you how to read faster. with comprehen­about our ability to make Speed Reading work 1·or you. sion. And, remember, we're not using our 
O.K. Tonight we'd like the opportunity to prove, as materials... books that you may feel too easy... we're we have to millions, that you can read with com­using yours ... the toughest you can find! prehension. If you're Jpen minded and want to improve your 
In fact, we challenge you to come to tonight's Free reading ability, we challenge you ... challenge you ~o Speed Reading Lesson armed with the toughest tex­begin tonight, t(\ make reading work for you! tbook or reading material you own, 
FREE SPEED READING LESSON 
EVELYN WOOD 
NOTRE READING DYNAMICS THIS MON, TUES,


DAME 

WED
ACC 

4:00 AND 7:30 ONLY

ENTER GATE 2 
Make reading work for you! 
then controlled by a Germa11 company. 

The Notre Dame Art Gallery has opened the exhibition Recent Sculpture by Moira Marti Geoffrion in East Galleries I and II. This exhibition of new works by Geoffrion, assistant professor of sculpture in the ND Art Depart­ment, will remain until Feb. 19. 
Geoffrion received her B.F.A. from Boston University, attended Indiana University at Bloomington, and received her M.F.A. from Southern Illinois University at Edwardsville. She and her husband spent three years living and travel­ling in Africa, and her work has been heavily influenced by African art. 
The Notre Dame Art Gallery is located in O'Shaughnessy Hall and is open, free to the public, week­days 10 a.m. to 4:45 p.m., Thurs­day evenings 7-9 p.m., and week­ends 1-5 p.m. 
Waugh to deliver three lectures 
John S. Waugh, A.A. Noyes 
professor of Chemistry at the 
Massachusetts Institute of Techno­
logy, will deliver three Peter C. 
Reilly Lectures at Notre Dame this 
week. 

A leader in studies of nuclear 
magnetic resonance (NMR) spec­
troscopy, Waugh's methods have 
allowed this technique to be used in 
studying the structpre of solids. 

In public lectures held in Room 123 Nieuwland Science Hall at 4:30 p.m., he will discuss "Alchemy of Nuclear Spins and NMR Spectros­copy in Solids," today; "Reversibi­lity and Irreversibility in Isolated Systems," Wednesday; and "Rota­tional Spin Echoes: 'Genuine' High Resolution NMR of Solids," Friday. 
Waugh received the A.B. from Dartmouth and the Ph.D. from the California Institute of Technology. He is a member of both the American Academy of Arts and Sciences and the National Academy of Sciences. 
The Reilly Lectureship was established in 1945 in honor of the late Indianapolis industrialist, Peter C. Reilly, and is sponsored by the ND Department of Chemistry. 
-------------------~--~­
. . . . 

.~ ' .. .... .-.. .. . 
5
t • t.. ' 1o I •• ' • '
'to •t Monday, January 23, 1978 
• •. • " I-\.. • .... "' • olo olo • • • .I I 
the observer 

Saturday Night Feuer 

by Fr. Bill Toohey 

Returning from break (whether summer, mid-semester or Christmas) is always a bit like meeting someone for the first time. We begin with a certain amount of small talk, of the have-you-read-any-goOd-books­lately varietys. This past week, as students inquired of each other how the break was, they frequently shared comments on movies viewed. And, amongst the many offerings of the Christmas season (Close Encounters, Gauntlet, Semi-Tough, Good­bye Girl, Turning Point, and others), the one most talked about is Saturday Night Fever. 
Fever is surely not a perfect film (a point amply documented by the professional reviewers); but it is much more than a rock musical comedy, pulsating with electrify­music and dance. More importantly, it is a serious and haunting work of art. 
Saturday Night Fever is about the forgotten majority: those college-age young adults who do not go to college. It is about Tony Manero and his friends, trapped. in the deceptively comfortable world of the Bay Ridge section of Brooklyn, a clearly definable territory, with its own monument, the Verrazano-Narrows Bridge to Staten Island. 
Tony, played with animal intensity by John Travolta, is hardly a deep thinker or a cultural sophistieate. His concern for the future doesn't go beyond the next Saturday night. It's magi.: time, when he takes his pick of partners and becomes king of the lighted plastic cutbe of a dance floor at the neighborhood discotheque. 
But Tony's tight little world begins to come unglued, as he gradually becomes aware of the emptiness of his life. His father is out of work, and his own job (six days a week) in a paint store looms bef?re him as a dt:ad-end of never-endmg tedium. 
Tony's brother, Frank, is a priest who has decided to leave the ministry, a shattering experience for the Italian­Catholic family. To top it off, Puerto Ricans are moving into the territory. When a Puerto Rican ':ouple takes to the dance floor in the conte<;t that constitutes the climax of the film, Tony realizes that his reign as king is over. He also recognizes that they deserv•e the first-prize money that was given to hirn. 
He gives the Puerto Rican couple the prizes; and prot1!sts against the prejudice, cruelty and shallowness of his constricting world. 
"Everybody has to dump on everybody else," Tony laments. "My father dumps on my mother; my mother dumps on us kids; the Italians dump on the Puerto Ricans and Puerto Ricans dump on the Italians; it's so bad that even humping is dumping.'' Haunted by a growing sense of futility, Tony struggles to free himself from his self-obsessed past and his smug and ruthless friends. 
Being dethroned as Disco King, has thrust him into vulnerability. "Like a deposed monarch in exile," Richard Blake writes, ''Tony crosses to Manhattan where, defeated and humbled, he is able to accept the risk and pain of the outside world.'' 
Tony is able to break through the darkness into light; he is able to free himself from his confining, death-dealing past; he is able to begin to discover that life is a journey, not a destination. But he doesn't do this all on his own. We sense, that like the Prodigal, he is cherished and pursued by the unrelenting power of love. 
For Tony, God fulfills his promiseto be a light in darkness through the gentle presence of a young woman. When Tony 
James Thurber: a biography 
James Thurber was born on a night of wild, portent and high wind in the year 1894, at 147 Parsons Avenue, Columbus, Ohio. The house, which is still standing, bears no tablet or plaque of any descrip­tion, and is never pointed out to visitors. Once, Thurber's mother, walking past the place with an old lady from Fostoria, Ohio, said to her "My son James was born in that house" to which the old lady, who was extremely deaf, replied, ''Why, on the Tuesday morning train, unless my sister is worse." Mrs. Thurber let it go at that. 
The infant Thurber was brought into the world by an old practical nurse, named 

Margery Albright, who had delivered the babies of neighbor women before the Civil War. He was, of course, much too young at the •Ime to have been affected by the quaint and homely circumstances of his birth, to which he once alluded, a little awkwardly, I think, as "the Currier and Ives, or old steel engraving touch, atten­dant upon my entry into this vale of tears.'' 
Not a great deal is known about his earliest years, beyond the fact that he could 'Walk when he was only two years old, and was able to speak whole sentences by the time he was four. 
Thurber's boyhood (1900-1913) was pretty well devoid of significance. I see no reason why it should take up much of our time. There is no clearly traceable figure of pattern in this phase of his life. If he knew where he was going, it was not apparent from this distance. He fell down a great deal during this period, because of a trick he had of walking into himself. His goldrimmed glasses forever needed straightening, which gave him the appear­ance of a person who hears somebody calling but can't make out where the sound is coming from. Because of his badly focussed lenses, he 's;~.w, not two of everything, but one and a half. Thus, a four-wheeled wagon would have not eight wheels for him, but six. How he succeeded in preventing these two extra wheels from getting into his work, I have no way of knowing. 
Thurber's life baffles and irritates the 
biographer beeause of its lack of design. One has the disturbing feeling that the man contrived to be some place without actually having gone there. His drawings, for example, sometimes seem to have reached completion by some other route than the common one of intent. 
Thewritingis, I think, different. In his prose pieces he appears always to have started from the beginning and to have reached the end by way of the middle. It is impossible to read any of the stories from the last line to the first without experienc­ing a definite sensation of going backward. This seems to me to prove that the stories were written and did not, like the drawings, just suddenly materialize. 
Thurber's very first bit of writing was a so-called poem entitled "My Aunt Mrs. 
makes his exodus to the outside world, Stephanie (played by Karen Gorney) offers him friendship. This is something new for Tony for whome women had been hereto­fore, dance partners or sex partners. 
Friendship presents another threat. "You've never been friends with a girl, Stephanie says. "Are you sure you can handle it?" "I'm not sure," Tony confesses, "but I'd like to try." 
Saturday Night Fever, for all its crude language and violent sex, is still an extremely moral film. The callousness and '­promiscuity and cruelty of the young adult world of Tony Manero is not glamorized. We can recognize something of ourselves in his story of setback and the interruption of closely made plans; and it is hard to miss 
the strong elements of redemption in the 
film's finale. 
Tony was seared with pain and death. He risks vulnerability through a new life in an alien land. He repudiates exploitation and retaliation ("Dumping," as he calls it), and gambles on the power of friendship. In the final, moving scene, Stephanie opens her door, and life, to him, offers friendship, reaches out to his woundedness with a kiss...and, in the final freeze-frame, Tony begins to allow love to find him. 

John T. Saveage's Garden at 185 South Fifth Street, Columbus, Ohio." It is of no value or importance except insofar as it demonstrates the man's appalling memory for names and numbers. He remembers the phone numbers of several of his shcool chums. He knows the birthdays of all his friends and can tell you the date on which any child of theirs was christened. He can rattle off the names of all the persons who attended the lawn fete of the First M.E. Church Columbus in 1907. This ragbag of precise but worthless information may have helped h im in his work, but I don't see how. 
I find, a bit to my surprise, that there is not much else to say. Thurber goes on as he always has, walking now a little more slowly, answering fewer letters, jumping at slighter sounds. In the past ten years he has moved restlessly from one Connecticut 
Notes on 

town to another, hunting for the Great Good Place, which he conceives to be an old Colonial house, surrounded by elms and maples, equipped with all modem conveniences and ov~rlooking a • alley. There he plans to spend his days reading "Huckleberry Finn," raising poodles, laying down a wine cellar, playing "boules," and talking to the little group of friends which he has managed somehow to take with him into his crotchety middle age. 
reprinted with the permission of Harper & Row. 

Sketches: Copr. 1957 James Thurber from "Alarms & Diversions" publlshed by Harper & Row. 
William Windom 
Note: WilHam Windom will appear in "Thurber" Tuesday night, Jan. 24 at Washington Halll. The appearance wiD feature selections taken from the works of James Thurber's reports, stories and fables. The two-act show Is scheduled to start at 8 p.m. 

Probably best known for his Emmy winning role as the lead on NBC-TV's 1969-70 series, MY WORLD . . . AND WLECOME TO IT, based on the works of James Thurber, William Windom also played the male lead on THE FARMER'S DAUGHTER, ABC-TV 1963-66. 
Other television appearances (and they are legion) include three of more than routinge interest: leads in WINESBURG, OHIO and BIG FISH, LITTLE FISH (Public B~;oadcasting System), and THEY'RE TEARING DOWN TIM 'RILEY'S bar (Night Gallery). 
Among his less objectionable film credits are: 
ECHOES OF A SUMMER (The Doctor) 
THE MAN (Secretary of State) 
ESCAPE FROM THE PLANET OF THE APES (President of the U.S.) FOOL'S PARADE (Dynamite Salesman) BREWSTER McCLOUD (Civic Blow­
hard) TO KILL A MOCKINGBIRD (The Dis­trick Attorney) 
For those moved by ancient history, his years in New York (1946-61) encompass eighteen Broadway and five Off-Broadway efforts, stock, soaps, road, radio, commer­cials, insurance, stage managing and stage-handing. He started, auspiciously enough, in 1945 as Richard ill. I expect that's what did it. 
Mr. w;ndom lives with his wife and threedaughters in California. 
Courtesy of Kolmar-Luth Entertabunent Inc., N.Y•• 

-~--~-~ 

Mctneby, Januarv 23, 197&,
the obs8rver 

Bluffton bus service for seniors praised 
BLUFFTON, IN [AP] -The oi<Jest passenger is 92 and the youngest is a blind man in his early 40's, and they uniformly have high praise for Bluffion's Senioride -a free bus service for the city's senior citizens. 
"I go lots of times to get away from home,'' said one elderly rider. "I get so lonesome I can hardly 
stand it." 
"I just love it!" added another patron. "I think it's the best thing Bluffion's ever had." 
The op~ration, the brainchild of Mayor William Fryback, began as a service to transport senior citizens to centers where they could obtain nutritional lunches 
It will be four years old in May, but in that time Senioride has expanded its itinerary to include almost everywhere in the city, and the vehicle has changed from the original surplus Civil Defense bus to a new, orange-trimmed 16­seater purchased by the city in November. 
"We're just glad to help them out," says John Allison, who, with Marge Gerber, rotates between stints either behind the wheel or helping the elderly riders get on and off the bus. 
The Bluffion situation is unique in that Senioride has no pressing schedule to meet. The route changes daily, depending on the requests telephoned each day to Fryback's secretary, who then 
Drama winner to receive $2000 
(Continued from page 3) 
and the right to attend the National Festival held at the John F. Kennedy Center for Performing Arts. The national winner receives a $2000 scholarship as well as chances for auditions on the pro­fessional level. According to Bain, many of the national winners have gone on to Hollywood contracts. 
Walker plans to attend graduate drama school and is presently attending auditions to be accepted at one. 
organize!\. schedules based on the 
calls. The Senioride is spreading, also. The bus is so popular with 
Bluffton's elderly that Wells County officials plan to inaugurate a similar countywide service later this month that will be known as the County Van. 
The cost of the Bluffion opera­tion is divided equally between the city government and a grant from the local Council on the Aged and Aging. 
Aboard the bus, observers report an atmosphere of companionship and anticipation as each day's route meanders from clothing stores to beauty shops to banks. 
"I like it because I can get my own groceries -I can pick them out myself," said a grateful Seniorider. 
King Hussein willing to join Mideast talks 

(Continued from page I) that ifthe talks fail, ''we are then at the end of the road. We will be heading for disaster in terms of this area and the whole world." Hussein said he would be willing to join discussions between Israel and Egypt if the two sides could agree on a set of principles that would govern a final Middle East solution. He said those principles should include Israeli withdrawal from occupied territories with minor rectifications, Arab sovereignty over East Jerusalem, the right of return for Palestinian refugees and the placing of the West Bank of the Jordan River and the Gaza Strip under international auspices until the inhabitants could exercise self­determination. If those principles were agreed, he said, "we would not hesitate one second to negoti­ate." In Cairo, a senior Egyptian Foreign Ministry official, Tahseen Bashir, said the Israeli announce­ment was "not unexpected." Bashir refused to go beyond that or to evaluate the Israeli move. 

Someone took pity on this statue during a snowstorm. Warm ears for the statue left the unknown provider with a cold head. [photo by Leo Hansen] 
Redwood 
EUREKA, CaUf. (AP] -As a hearing approaches on whether the Redwood National Park should be expanded, loggers and environ­mentalists are blaming each other for a rash of chain-saw vandalism to the majestic trees. 
The trunks of 16 state protected giant redwoods in groves about 55 miles south of here have been hacked and ripped by a chainsaw's 

Who are you, telling us how to run our business? 
It takes a lot of confidence to come fresh out of school and begin telling us how to do thmgs. 
On the other hand, it takes an un­usual company to provide the kind of environment where that can happen. but that is exactly the env1ronment you"ll find at Scott Paper. 
We constantly search for people who have the ab1lity to respond to chal­lenge and think for themselves. those with the inlliallve and desire to seek al­ternallves, the skill and courage to con­vince others that there are better ways and who aren"t afraid to express their ideas. 
AI Scott, we admire an aggressive stance because we are an aggressive company. You can make your own op­portunllies with us ... and we"ll prove it. 
Contact your placement office for information. 
SCOII 
an equal opportunity employer, m/f 
trees vandalized 
gnawing teeth the past month. 

The rash of vandalism comes just as debate is heating up over an attempt in Congress to add 48,000 acres of nearby northern California mountain timberland to the Red­wood National Park. 
A hearing is scheduled Wednes­day on a bill sponsored by Sen. Alan Cranston (D-Calif.). The pro­posed legislation has been hailed by conservationists because it would protect the 2000-year-old redwoods and fought by logging interests who want the trees for lumber. 
Each side has voiced outrage over the vandalism. And each has hinted its opponent could be the culprit. 
Sheriff's deputies say they don't know who is responsible for the vandalism. 
The first of four attacks was made on Jan. 3 when two of three 2000-year-old trees, which have roadways tunneled through them, were hacked. The last assault was Friday, when four 300-foot trees on the A venue of the Giants in Humboldt Redwood State Park were scarred. 
Most of the trees have had to be toppled because the damage was so severe. 
Volunteers sought for tutoring 
Students who want to tutor this semester with the Neighborhood Study Help Program (NSHP) can sign up this week at the dining halls. 
The NSHP is the campus volun­teer service through which ND­SMC students tutor South Bend grade school children. Tutoring center captains will be at the South Dining Hall with sign-up sheets tomorrow from 5-6:30 p.m., at the North Dining Hall on Wednesday from 5-6:30 p.m., and at St. Mary's Dining Hall on Thursday from 4:30-6 p.m. 
Tutors usually spend one hour each week with a grade school student to work on reading and math problems. Transportation for tutors is provided through Volun­teer Services. Anyone with ques­tions can call Maggie Brittan (4-1-4260) or Rick VanBeveren (283-6372). . 


Monday, january 23, 1978 the observer 
7 

Notre Dame icers split with Tigers 
., 
by Gregory Solman slashing in the second game. · their own goals before the period and a move around Dave Feamster defenseman Don Jackson, Notre Sports Writer In any event, it was a cuucial win closed at S-4. Warner's goal at for a goal that surprised ntminder Dame's game of hockey is becom­for the Irish the secortd night, 18:31 in particular exemplified the Paul Mitchell. Still on the power-ing increasingly more disciplined. It was not a weekend for the lifting them in the stancllings and fine shooting display put on by both play, Jackson scored again, this "I think that our defensive play purist. sending them to their 111pcoming teams, as he cruised in from the time with help from Byers and is really coming along," said Somewhere in ancient Irish folk-five game road trip witha Victory in · right, and fired the puck over Scneider. Jackson, who picked up two goals lore there exists a story which tells hand. Moher's left shoulder into the the Irish got a little sloppy with a and two assists in the winning of a former president of Notre On Friday night, Maksymyk of comer of the net. 7-3 lead, allowing Dale Maksymyk effort, "We're using our defensive Dame who refused to allow hockey Colorado and Kevin Nugcmt of the The third period was all Color-to coast in unassailed for the final partners much more, and shooting on campus because, as he put it, he Irish tyraded goals to open the first ado, as Notre Dame had two power tally. from the points more effectively." "would never support a game that period. After Dave Delich put play opportunities and failed to Irish Coach Lefty Smith cited The next conference matchup put a stick in the hands of ari Colorado in front with a power play capitalize on either. Meanwhile, Humphrey's2-2 goal as the big one will occur in North Dakota, where, Irishman.'' ' goal, Don Lucia scored his first Maksymyk Kronschnabel and Dean in the game, it being the first mark according to Kevin Nugent, the 
One has to wonder what -that career goal, a big one, to knot the Magee added goals to ice the in third period. Irish should fare well, despite the priest might have thought had he game at two. The assist went to victory. Greg Meredith, with apoint in fact that the Fighting Sioux will be been around this weekend, when Geoff Collier. The first and second periods of the series, was the recipient of home. the Colorado College Tigers and At 6:23 of the first JM~riod, the the second game showed the same · cheap shots all weekend. Meredith "The race in the WCHA is the literally "Fightin'" Irish 'breadwinners went to work for the conservative style of hockey seen has been wearing a full cage mask certainly tightening up," said Nu-squared off and split at Notre Irish when Terry Fairholm hit the previous night. And the to protec the nose he broke several gent, who has scored 11 times in Dame. brother Don with a pass that sent roughness continued, both teams weeks ago. It has been drawing the last fifteen games, "The top 
The scoring, which at times he and Kevin Nugent in on.a 2 on 1 picking up twelve penalties and trouble for the Irish winger, who is . teams, Wisconsin and Denver, are appeared merely coincidental to break. Nugent picked the far side only three goals. usually opposed to .such "extra cooling off right now. Meanwhile, the fisticuffs, earned the rebound-and snapped it home for the Irish Dave Feamster was the first to curricular activity. we seem to be picking up a little 
ing Irish a hard-fought split. Game lead. A few minutes later, with penetrate th armor of Irish net-"They think that because I'm momentum.'' one of the series went to Colorado, theman advantage, Terry Fairholm minder John Peterson. The power-wearing this mask that I'm looking 
r------------.. 
8-4, lifting the Tigers one point picked up a handsome goal, with an play goal was assisted by Delich for excuses to hit people,"' com­
*Observer 

above the Irish in the standings. assist from Nugent and Dick Howe. and Greg Whyte. mented Meredith, "Actually, you The nest night, the Irish came back That, however, was to be the last Early in the second period, the have to expect roughness when 
sp0 rt s 

to snatch the sixth spot in the the sparse crowd was to hear from Wizard, Donny Fairborn was up to playing a team that is as undisci-WCHit with a much-needed 7-4 Notre Dame all night, as Coilorado his old tricks, pulling off an plined as Colorado." victory. bombarded Moher and tb:e Irish for unassisted shorthanded goal to tie ,_...;M~e~a~nw~hil~e~,~m~ain~ta~i_!!ns~.2Iris~·~h!__!:::===========~ 
The roughness that epitomized six unanswered goals. the score. Feamster tied the the series was really not unex-· Before the second p1eriod had game, however, at 8:05, and colo­pected. In fact, Irish defenseman ended, however, the Irish had lost rado skated off with a 2-1 lead. Dick Howe intimated before the Kevin Nugent for ten minutes, The third period, by far the most series had begun that he had done Collier for two minutes, and Fair-open and fast-skating period in the an extra "set" with the weights in holm for two minutes...and Moher weekend series, saw eight goals anticipation of the arrival of Tiger picked up four minutes 1for rough-and only five penalties--the only policeman Dean Magee. Even the ing when Nugent and Haedrich had period of the weekend to see that goaltenders got into the act, Lenny at it in front of the net. happen. However, on crucial Moher getting a four minutes for Jim Kronschnabel started the CC penalty by Jim Kronschnabel roughing in the first game and Paul comeback with a powerplay goal might have broken Colorado's Mitchell, Colorado netminder, from Delich and Wam1er. Both back. 
MANDATORY MEETING
SMC FOR ALL 
REPORTERS 
drawing a two minute poenalty for Delich and Wamer then added Notre Dame was riding a 4-3 lead 
·Monte Towle=====================================================================================================================: ~~~toB~:s :~dK~"!!!~mp~r;'::; r--------'1 Thursday I.________ 
Schneider, from Geoff Collier and Terry Fairholm's first of the night 
January 26 6:30pm
from Don Fairholm and Don Jack­
Close Encounters 
son. With Irish momentum high enough, Kroenschnabel picked up 
SMC Office 
a game misconduct for sweeping
::;.,=============================================================================================================Towle's Rags 
his stick at the head of Dan Byers. 
Basemeflt of Regina South
Damn, vacation is over..Again, back at school before really knowing · 
The Irish would have a one man
where the time went. Time does go fast when you're having fun. The 
advantage for five full minutes,
calendar says 1978. But heck, I'm still waiting to collect bets from the 
regardless of whether they scored 
NEW
1968 World Series. Oh well, h~re's a few thoughts from Christmas break: 
or not. To add insult to injury, Jim 
For the first time since the Jets played the Colts in the 1969 Super Bowl, 
Wamer picked up an unnecessary 
REPORTERS
I actually looked forward to the professional championship this year. You 
boarding call just a half minute 
may disagree, but Sunday's clash resembled a genuine Super Bowl 
later, giving the Irish a two man 
WELCOME!
football game, for once. Obviously, the Dallas defense had the: edge over edge.
the Orange Crush version. Ed 'Too Tall' Jones is too strong, too quick, too 
Terry Fairholm took advantage
fast, too smart. Seven Bronco turnovers in the first half, Ahh! I'll take 
If you absolutely can't attend
of it first, parking himself at the
Roger Staubach for five more years just for starters. And what about both 
comer of the net to tip in the 
call Jean at 4001 .
groups of cheerleaders. There's a tossup. Just ask Tom Brookshier. 
rebound from Jeff Brownschidle's
College ba~ketball: The two games on NBC earlier on Super Bowl slap shot. 
Sunday afternoon were enjoyable. So weren't the Michelobs I was 
Then Don Jackson relieved some 
drinking. 
of his frustration built up over the 
Marquette over Nevada-Las Vegas. The Warriors may be even better 
season, first with a rink long dash
than the 1977 national champs. Not only were Jerome Whitehead and Butch Lee their usual great selves, but Ulice Payne also proved himself capable at scoring buckets. And what about Bernard 'Looney' Toone? He could be one of the more exciting players on the college circuit. Can't wait for their arrival at the ACC in February. 
What happened to Las Vegas' run and gun shenanigans? Sunday's 
CLASSIFIEDS
game resembled a 40-minute stall for the Rebels compared to last year's semifinal game against North Carolina. coach Jerry Tarkantian misses 
NOTICE 
Eddie Owens a lot more than he will admit although Reggie Theus has to 
Need roomate to share an apartment at FOR SALE 
be his dream come true. 
Accurate, fast typing. Mrs. Donoho, Crestwod second semester (two miles Bic 9111 turntable only 3 months old.
A ghost from the 1972 Summer Olympics in Munich made an 
from campus). Call Vince at 288-1259 

Comes with Shure M91ED cartridge,
232-Q746. Hours-8 am to 6 pm. 
between 11 :00 and midnight.

appearance at Pauley Pavilion for the USSR-UCLA match. In 1.972, it was 
Walnut base and dustcoveL. Must sell. 
Call3058. $170.00
a shot at the buzzer that went in to give the Soviets a 51-50 'victory' over 
Dissertations, manuscripts typed. IBM 
'Wanted: 1or 2 B-ball tix for Marquette.

the USA. On Sunday, the same thing happened against the Bruins. One 
selection II. Linda's letters, 287-4971. 
Call6326. 

Full color Cotton Bowl pictures now
thing to take careful notice of was David Greenwood. He controlled the 
available. Call 89112
NEED QUALITY TYPING? Executary
game for UCLA. NBC commentator AI McGuire was most professional 
Need four GA's for Davidson game.

Inc. Professional Typing Services, IBM 
Colin, 8689. .

and insightful throughout the afternoon. He's a credit to his network 
Still need books? Pandora's has used
correcting selectrics. $.85 per page, 
inexpensive books for many NO classes.
bosses. 
minimum. Caii232-Q898 When you want 
Wanted: One roomate to share apartment 

WE also buy used books. 937 South Bend
Notre Dame vs. Kentucky. The Irish almost took it exce)llt for a few 
the best. 
· at Campus View. Call Bill, 277-3509. 

Ave. (near Corby's). 233-2342.
unlucky mistakes in the closing minutes. We ·weren't ready for Kyle 
CONTACT LENS WEARERS: Save on
Macy. I can't help thinking though, that we will be seeing the Wildcats 
Wanted: Two roomates for Campus View Skis -Rossignor Roc 550's with Salomon

brand name hard and soft lens supplies. 
Apartments for the remainder of the

again in March. We'll defeat them on a neutral court. 
505's -excellent condition. Dave,
Send for a free illustrated catalog. 
semester. Call 277-2761 after 7:00.

The loss to San Francisco did little to ease the agony of the Kentucky 
277-4784.
Contact Lens Supplies, Box 7453,Phoenix
defeat. But the Dons were enjoying the return of a dollllinant Bill 
Arizona, 85011. 
Wanted: 2 Marquette BB tix. Don For sale-Wasburn 0-28 guitar, 3 months
Cartwright and the superb play of James Hardy and Winford Bo.ynes and 
233-8036. old. $250. Paul, 277-1874.
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND Student loans at 1 percent interest
the advantage of a revenge motive. The Dons have struggled this year. 
But, keep an eye out for them. They'll probably be playing UCLA in the 
Will pay your price for GA Marquette tix. 
PERSONALS

(monthly). $2D-$150. One day wait. Due 
Call7946.

West final in a couple of months. 
in 30 days. Lafotune Basement, 11:15-Elizabeth,
A 38-hour car ride, 2,000 miles in a southwesterly direction. 
12:15, M-F. 
Muncbldns aren't supposed ta get sick
LOST AND FOUND

Destination: Dallas, Texas and the Cotton Bowl. I had the Iri1>h to win by 
so why don't you quH fooling around and
14 although feeling somewhat conservative at that when setting the 
WANTED get blttar? 
spread. Notre Dame was the best team in the country going into, let alone 
LOST: Set of keys by ACC ice rink: Honda 

Looking for student to share Hickory Vil­
coming out of the 38-10 stomping of Texas. Who's Brad Shearer? Who's 
key. Please call277-o222, or 234-8279 or lage apt. for $00 per month. Call

Russ Erxleben? What's an 'Arrow'? An 'Arrow' is about 129 yards of 
turn into rink pro shop for Thelma.

House parent, room and board plus $85 272-6517.
wasted effort. There were many highlights to the game. My favorites 
dollars per week, Tax Free: Close to 
FOUND: In LaFortune student center, a

were Randy Harrison's opening kickoff tackle of Johnny Jones and Luther 
campus. Flexible hours. 232-4805. LATIN TUTOR DESPERATELY NEED1
valuable writing instrument. Call Man­

Bradley's block of Erxleben's field goal attempt. 
ED FOR SECOND SEMESTER FRESH­
beth 3803 to identify.

Need riders to and from Rochester N.Y. MAN LATIN. WILL MEET YOUR Jan. 29th weekend. Call Tim 1045. PRICE. CALL 287-9104. 
In less than 14 months, the Fighting Irish have conquered the likes of 
Alabama, Penn State, Pittsburgh, Southern Cal, Oemson and Texas. 
LOST: All sense of reason. If found, just 
keep it-it wasn't used much anyway:

Needless to say, Notre Dame is Number One. That has to 11ay a lot for 
NEEDED: Somebody to take over my rongratulations Bob and Jill! Best of
Coach Dan Devine, his assistants and the players. Devine! remains a 
lease -two blocks from campus. ED -Luck always.
winner and one of the most successful coaches in the United. States. As 
8886. SHARE AN APARTMENT · 
CHEAP!!! Near NO: Cape Cod two bedrooms, ALL SMC REPORTERS: Mandatory only for ourselves, but for Coach Devine as well." It does fee:! good and I 
reserve Jeff Crippin stated, ''We players are really excited and happy, not 
fireplace, partially furnished. 272-6174 meeting Thursday, 6:30 pm in SMC Badly need Marquette tix. Tom, 1066. evenings. office, basement of Regina South.
don't mind being back at the home of the National Champion!>, either. So take that, Alabama state legislature. 

Monday, january 23, 1978
the obsenrar 

Irish top Bruins, earn 'clean sweep' 
NO becomes only second team in over ten years to defeat UCLA twice in one season 

by Paul Stevenson Sports Editor 

There are not many rivalries that 
compare with the matchup between 
Notre Dame and UCLA and this 
classic confrontation lived up to its 
reputation once again yesterday as 
the seventh-ranked Irish downed 
the third-rated Bruins, 75-73, in the 
ACC. That victory marked the 
second of the season for the Irish 
over UCLA. In more than ten 
years, there has only been one 
other occasion when the Bruins 
have been defeated by the same 
team twice in one year. 
The contest was extremely close 
for the first 17 minutes of competi­
tion. Then, with 2:57 remaining 
before intermission, Duck Williams 
scored on a driving layup to put 
Notre Dame on top, 35-31. Rich 
Branning then stole and tallied and 
Dave Batton hit on a layup off the 
assist from Bruce Flowers to put 
the Irish up by eight, 39-31. Roy 
Hamilton ~;onnected on his second 
of two free throws, but Williams 
followed with layup with seven 
seconds left in the half to end the 
first 20 minutes of play, 41-32. 
In the first half, the Bruins 
connected on 15 of 30 field goals, 
while hitting two of four from the 
charity stripe. Meanwhile, the 
Irish found the range on 18 of 31 
field goals for 58 percent and sunk 
five from five from the gift line. 
Notre Dame had a slight rebound­
ing edge of 16 to 14. 
James Wilkes scored on a layup after the opening tip of the second half but the Irish came back with three unanswered buckets. Batton connected on an over the head layup off a rebound and was fouled by Wilkes. The 6-9 senior then converted on the three-point play and Williams soon found the range on a seven foot bank shot. 
The Irish now had a remarkable 46-34 lead and appeared as though they may have been able to blow the game open against the highly­touted Bruins. However, in the next six minutes, UCLA out-scored the Irish 16 to one. The lone Notre Dame point came on a free throw by Branning. Hamilton had three Iayups within that time period to lead the Bruin surge. 
But, with the Bruins up, 50-47, the Irish fought back. The Notre Dame cagers regained the lead again with 10:47 left in the contest, 55-54. From there, the contest was a see-saw battle with both sides exchanging buckets. 
The Notre Dame head coach had senior guard Jeff Carpenter start the contest, his sixth starting nod of the season, in place of Williams. 
"I thought Jeff could break up their press, " Phelps stressed. "He has really matured for us and come to know his game. I felt that Flowers and Williams had to sit and observe what's happening, and then get into the flow of the game." 
Williams had talked to Phelps earlier in the week and discussed the fact that it may be to Notre Dame's advantage if he did not start. "I talked to coach and he wanted me to sit down and watch the game for a while and then come in and explode," Williams noted. "It gave me a chance to look at the other players and see what they're doing. 
Batton realized that this was a 

With 4:46 remaining in the game, Laimbeer was fouled by Gig Sims, his fifth. The sophomore center connected on both charity shots as Notre Dame took the lead again, 65-62. Branning then hit two more free throws and Williams scored two on a twisting jumper to give the Irish a safe 69-62 margin with only 3:23 remaining. 
At the 3:03 mark, Laimbeer drove in for a layup but was, to say the least, fouled by David Green-

I, 
-

jeff Carpenter received his sixth starting nod of the season and responded with a fine performance. [Photo by Doug Christian]·· 
wood. The 6-11 sophomore was 
removed from the game on a 
stretcher due to a believed broken 
right ankle. Although the Toledo, 
Ohio native only sprained his 
ankle, he did break a small bone in 
his left wrist. · Thus, Laimbeer will 
be absent from action tonight 
against Dartmouth as well as 
Wednesday night against West 
Virginia. It is unknown how much 
longer Notre Dame's center·will be 
out of the lineup. 
Jeff Carpenter then hit on the 
first of two free throws for Laim­
beer and Branning followed 
seconds later with two more of his 
own, thus giving Notre Dame a 
commanding 72-64 lead with only 
2:39 left in the game. 
The Bruins then came back with 
seven unanswered points to narrow 
the Notre Dame lead to 72-71. 
Following a jump ball between 
Branning and Wilkes, Greenwood 
fouled Flowers and the Huntington 
Woods, Michigan native connected 
on both attempts to give the Irish a 
74-71 advantage. 
But, Holland connected ·for UCLA with only 46 seconds remain­ing in the game to close the score to one again. Then, with 13 seconds left in the contest, Holland fouled Tripucka who missed on the first half of a one-on-one situation. Then, with four seconds left in the game, Greenwood missed from the corner, but Carpenter fouled Wilkes on the rebound. Wilkes missed on the free throw and Flow­ers hauled in the rebound and was fouled by Greenwood. The junior forward hit the first half of the bonus situation and time expired after the second missed /as the Irish capture the second game of the match and earn a ':clean sweep," 75-73. 
In the contest, UCLA connected on 35 of 67 field goals for 52 percent. Meanwhile, the Irish sank 29 of 57 shots from the field for 51 percent. An interesting point is that the Bruins connected on six more field goal attempts. 
Thus, the difference was at the 
Laimbeer and Batton each hauled in seven rebounds, while Flowers had six caroms. 
Greenwood led all scorers with 23 points, while also accounting for ten rebounds. Townsend added 15 markers, while Hamilton added 13 points. 
The contest was well played by both sides and Bruin Head Coach Gary Cunningham was quick to point out how good a game it was. 
"I think the game was called consistently,'' Cunningham remarked. "It was well coached by Digger and he did a great job with his players. I was very proud of the way our team came back at the end. 
It was just a game of strategy on both sides. Notre Dame has an outstanding team, one of the truly outstanding teams in the country." 
Irish mentor Digger Phelps was extremely proud of his squad's efforts. They knew the task they 
had in front of them and  accom­ 
plished their goal.  
"Our  concern  was  to  control  

their guards,'' Phelps commented. "Let Greenwood get 25, but don't let their Townsend and Hamilton get SO. 
..t 

gift line where the Bruins stood only six times, connecting on three occasions. The Irish, on the other hand, hit 17 of 22 shots from the charity stripe for the afternoon. UCLA hauled in 38 rebounds, while the Irish managed 30. 
Williams paced the Irish attack with 19 points, hitting nine of 14 goals and one of two from the free thrown line. Laimbeer added 14 points, while Branning chipped in 12 and Batton contributed ten. 
crucial contest the Irish needed after their holiday schedule. "I'm really happy that we won the game; this puts us over the hump." 
Phelps agreed with Batton's sentiments. "This is the juice we needed. We needed to win a big game to get us back on track." 
The Fighting Irish will have no time to rest and enjoy this victory 
as  they  entertain  Dartmouth  
tonight  at  the  ACC.  Tip-off is  
slated for  8 p.m.  


Bill Laimbeer scored ten points and hauled in seven rebounds in the Irish conquest, [Phdto by. Doug 'Christian] 






