

VATICAN CITY [AP] -Pope John Paul II promised Tuesday that a "ministry of love" would mark his reign as the 264th pontiff of the Roman Catholic Church. 
He said, "We would like to reach out our hands and open our hearts in this moment, to all people and to those who are oppressed by what­ever injustices or discrimination · whether it has to do with economy, life in society, political life or the freedom of conscience and just reliuious freedom. We must reach ouc~!th all means to them, that all forms of injustice manifest in our times be rejected by public opinion." 
In his televised sermon delivered under Michelangelo's fresco "The Last Judgment" in the ·sistine Chapel, the pope pledged to carry on the church reforms launched by the Second Vatican Council of 1962-65 and to follow the guide­lines laid down by Paul VI and John Paul I. 
The former Cardinal Karol W ojtyla of Krakow, Poland, also took a trip outside Vatican walls on his first full day as leader of the world's 700 million Catholics · to visit a "very dear friend" who had suffered a heart attack. 
Vatican officials, meanwhile, an­nounced -that John Paul would preside at a Mass at his installation on Sunday. The announcement made no mention of a coronation, implying that he would continue the pattern of John Paul I, who refused to be crowned the tempor~l ruler of the church. 
From.War~w. Polish Common-
I. 
ist leader Edward Gierek sent a message to the pope, saying that his election ''fills Poland with great satisfaction" and that he was "convinced that further develop­ment of relations between Poland and the Apostolic See" would come about. 
A polish government spokes­man, Kazimierz Kakol, said that passport restricitons would be eased to allow a "large number" of Poles to travel to Rome for the installation. He did not say how many visas would be granted. Poles normally have to wait three to four weeks to obtain a travel visa. 
In his first papal sermon that was televised live in Poland, the 58­year-old pontiff warned that the 
i
"general criteria of loyalty to the The lottery for Foreigner concert tickets was he~ last night. [Photo by Mark Muench].
Vatican Council" must not affect loyalty to the basic doctrinal truths ofthe church. This was perhaps an indication of that he would pursue a conservative stance on such 
HPC discusseS Huddle plan
matters as the church's ban on artificial contraception, the ordina­by Rob Powers the responsibility of taking sug­newspaper recycling program will tion of women and the marriage of Staff Reporter gestions at this week's hall council begin next month. She said a bin priests. meeting. will be placed by the stadium for 
The pope supported the contra­Del Grande said that Huddle newspapers, and collections will be
Renovation .of the Huddle and
ception ban put forth in Pope Paul Manager Dan Pickler cannot pro­made in the halls November 14
hall use of Community Service
VI's 1968 encyclical Humanae ceed with the renovations that include ,13,15. Profits will go to Volunteer
Organization (CSO) funds were
Vitae when he was archbishop of a delicatessen and expansion of the Services. 
among the topics discussed at last
Krakow. ice cream section, Del Grande said. 
night's Hall President's Council
Clad in the traditional papal Del Grande recommended that ·Ellen Dorney, Badin president,
(HPC) meeting in Badin lounge. 
robes of brilliant white satin and a hall presidents not use CSO funds said that Badin will be host again red skullcap, the pope celebrated HPC Chairman Chuck Del to operate hall administered com­this year to the eighth grade class Mass jointly .with the cardinals who Grande reported that no one at­munity service projects, encourag­of Sacred Heart School on the elected him Monday. He delivered tended any of the meetings held ing them instead to run them at the south-side of Chicago. Dorney said a half-hour sermon in Latin and Monday night to take suggestions hall's expense. From a show of forty student tickets are needed for then released the 110 men from the for the Huddle renovations. As a hands, only a few halls are now the Tennessee game for the stu­secret conclave where they had result, Del Grande cancelled to­using CSO funds. -dents. Any one interested in been sequestered since Saturday night's meetings and recommend­Mary Early of the Student Gov­*-ating a ticket should contact afternoon. ed that the hall presidents assume vernment announced that the ...at6922. . 
..~--------~--------------------------------------~------------------------------------~-----------­
,....News Briefs_____ 
1::============================== National 
Nurses protest new drink 
RICHMOND Va. [AP)-The beer manufacturer calls its new product a "not-so-soft drink" but a nurses' group wants it boycotted, saying it could help soda-sipping children grow into beer-guzzling adults. An amber blend of lemon, ginger and apple flavoring in a malt-flavored base, "Chelsea" is being test-marketed by Anheuser­Busch in six markets, including Richmond and Staunton, Va. The 3,000-member Virginia Nurses Association, is worried because it contains about one-half of one percent alcohol and is packaged to look like premium beer. Barbara Bolton, executive director of the association, said yesterday that the nurses' group fears that drinking Chelsea will "condttion" children to consuming beer and other, stronger alcoholic beverages when they grow older. 
Reading Joyce beats togas 
AMHERST, Mass. [AP)-An around-the-clock public recitation of James Joyce's mysses ended last night with a two-person reading of the book's final, 40-page sentence which ends, " ... Yes I will Yes." Fifty-one students and 11 faculty members -10 from Amherst, one from Smith College in nearby Northampton ­completed their adventure in reading the classic novel aloud in 28 hours and 40 minutes. The reading started at 8 a.m. Monday, with most readers taking half-hour turns. "It's better than a toga party,'' one of the organizers said, referring to wild celebrations popularized by "Animal House," a film spoof of fraternity life. 
Two attempt snake murder 
WS ANGELES [AP)-Two men affiliated with the Synanon Foundation were charged Tuesday with conspiracy to commit murder in connection with a rattlesnake attack on an attorney who had won a $300',000 judgment against Synanon. A Deputy District Attorney John Watson said the attack involved revenge. Joseph Musico, 28, and Lance Kenton, 20, son of bandleader Stan Kenton, were also charged with assault with a deadly weapon. A 41/l-foot rattlesnake was placed in attorney Paul Morantz' mail box on Oct. 
10. Morantz was bitten by the rattlesnake, whose rattles had been removed apparently to keep it from being detected. 
Weather 
Partly sunny with a 30 percent chance of showers today with highs in the upper 50s. Clearing and cold Wednesday night with lows in the upper 20s and the lower 30s. Sunny Thursday with highs in the mid 50s. 
~~-On Campus Today_ _. 
12:15 p.m. nieuwland lecture, "scheistosomiasis: our fragment­ary knowledge of a man-made disease," by thomas 
h. weller, md, 278 galvin aud. 
3:25p.m. grad seminar, "catalytic gasification of coal," guillernio I. gusman, d.d, spon by chem engineering 269 chem engr. building. 
3:30p.m. seminar, "earthquake response of structures includ­ing hydrodynamic interaction," prof anil k chopra, univ of calif, berkeley, spon by aero and mechan engr, 203 engr building. 
4:20p.m. colloquium, "broken symmetry," dr. r.n. sen, univ of negev, beersheva, israel, spon by physics dept, 118 nieuwland science hall. 
4:30p.m. reilly lecture, "optical and thermal electron transfer in metal complexes," prof thomas j meyer, 123 nieuwland science hall. 
_'j:15 p.m. faster's mass, spon by world hunger coalition, walsh chapel. 
5:15p.m. commemoration mass, for "prisoner of conscience week," spon by amnesty international, sacred heart church. 
6:30p.m. sailing club meeting, room 204 o'shag. 
7 p.m. volley ball, smc vs purdue/calumet, angela athletic facilty. 
7:30p.m. american culture series, "work and idleness in modern societies," by john a. garraty, columbia univ, carroll hall, smc. 
8 p.m. soccer, nd vs morton. 
8p.m. recital, elsa charlston, coloratura soprano, spon by music dept, mem lib aud. 
midnight wsnd album hour, "beach boy's '69-live in london," am 640. 
Americans share Nobel Prize 
STOCKHOLM, Sweden [API ­Two Americans whose work with microwave radiation supported the "big bimg" theory of the creation of the universe shared the Nobel Prize in physics yesterday with a Russian scientist. The prize for chemistry went to a Briton. 
Dr. Arno A. Penzias, 45, and Dr. Robert W. Wilson, 42, both of the Bell Telephone Laboratories of New Jersey, shared the $165,000 
SMC re-presents slide show 
"SMC....A Tapestry," the spe­cial Founder's Day slide presenta­tion shown last Thursday night in Angela Athletic Facility will be shown three more times for those who missed it. The showings will be in the Little Theatre at 7 p.m., tonight, and Thursday. 
physics prize with Professor Pyotr Leontevitch Kapitsa of Moscow. Kapitsa, 84, was honored for his work in the low-temperature physics. 
The chemistry prize, also $165,000, went to Professor Peter Mitchess, 58, for his _work in bioenergetics, which concerns the chemical process responsible for the energy supply in living cells. 
Six of the nine men named to receive or share in Novel prizes this year are Americans. Americans shared with other nationalities in physics and medicine, and won outright in literature and econ­omics. The Nobel Peace Prize has not yet been announced. 
Penzias and Wilson discovered cosmic microwave background radiation, which added support to the theory that the universe was 
Soprano to perform recital 
The Notre Dame Concert Series rell and Ronald Combs~­will present Elsa Charlston, so­The program will include songs prano, in a recital of Romantic and by Purcell, Schubert and Wolf, as 20th century art songs tonight at well as 20th century art songs by 8:15p.m. in the Memorial Library Weisgall, Stravinsky and Ives. Auditorium. Featuring the premier 
Oenzias, reached at his home in New Jersey, said he and Wilson were studying the Milky Way when "we found more radiation than we could account for in the Milky Way, and it turned out upon investiga­tion that this radiation was coming form outside even our own galaxy. 
ND sets laundry pick-up 
Clothes laundered at the Notre 
Dame laundry will be ready three 
working days after pick-up, accord­
ing to laundry workers. While in 
the past some bundles have been 
processed sooner than three days, 
circumstances have caused this 
year's laundry to slow. 
No phone calls will be accepted concerning the status of laundry pick-up The schedules posted in dorms will be adhered to. 
Students are reminded that 
carry-down bundles take longer to 
process and are not processed until 
the end of the week. Any change 
in schedule or operations will be 
reported to OBUD and all hall 
rectors. 
performance of.the "Yeats Songs" by Notre Dame Assistant Professor of Music Ethan Haimo, the recital is open to the public without charge. 
Ms. Charlston is best known as a performer of contemporary music, singing regularly with Ralph Shapey's Contemporary Chamber Players in Chicago and the Musica Viva of Boston. Also an active singer of lieder, she has sung roles with the Santa Fe Opera Company and recently completed a master course in the German lied at the Franz Schubert Institute in Austria. 
Her coaches have included George Demus, Elly Ame!i_n~, _Mack Har· 
*The Observer 
Night Editor: Frank L. Kebe, 
Jr. Asst. Night Editors: Pat Campbell, Beth Huffman Layout Staff: Meg Schiltz Features Layout: Dave Rum bach 
Sports Layout: Greg Solman, Pam Herbst Typists: Betsy Masana, Nancy Morris, Mary Chustak EMT: Katie Brehl Day Editor: Marcia Kovas Copy Reader: Mark Rust, Marian Ulicny Ad Layout: Flo O'Connell, Sue Johnston Photographer: Mark Muench 
The Observer Is published Mon­dey through Frldey except during exem end vecetlon periOds. Tl)e Observer Is published by the students of Notre Deme end S.lnt Mery•s College. Subscriptions mey be purchesed for UD per yeer ($10 per semester) from The Observer, P.O. &ox Q, Notre Dime, lndlenl 46556. Second c1111 postege peld, Notre D1me, lndl1n1, 4US6. . The Observer Is • member of the AISOCIIfed Preas. All repro. ductJon rlghta ere reaerved. 
Observer Editorial Board 
Tony Pace Steve Odland John Calcutt Barb Langhenry Rosemary Mills Phil Cackley Jean Powley Ann Gales Mike Lewis Diane Wilson Ray O'Brien Bryan Gruley 
Mardi Nevin 
John Tucker Bob Rudy 
Doug Christian 
JAM & NOTRE DAME STUDENT UNION PROUDLY 

1=-0.1~ 1£ I G N I£ I~ 
Saturday, November 11, 8 PM NOTRE DAME A.C.C. Tickets: $8.50 & $7.50 
Tickets available at the 
A.C.C. Box Office and the Student Union Ticket Office 
On sale Wednesday, Oct. 18, at 9am 
Editor-in-Chief Managing Editor Executive Editor Executive Editor Editorial Editor Copy Editor St. Mary's Editor News Editor News Editor News Editor Sports Editor Features Editor Production Manager 
Business Manager Advertising Manager Photo Editor 
THE CooPERATIVE DEPARTMENT OF SPEECH AND DRAMA 
NoTRE DAME, INDIANA 4655v 
October 14th-December 1st (NON CREDIT) COattce P~tactwum 
Courses: lOlA lntro to Modem Dance, Fri. 4:15-5:15 lOlB lntro to Jazz and Theatre Dance, Wed 4:15-5:15 101C Classical Ballet (Intermediate), Mon 4:15-5:15 Classes start week of October 16th 
-CHI LOREN'S BALLET CLASSES­Open to ND-SMC Faculty and Staff Children Courses: Ballet!-9:00-10:00 ages 7 to 11 with no previous training Ballet 11-10:15-11:15, Ages 8 to 12 with one year prior training Place: Regina Hall, Basement Stage Fee: $25 perstudent · 
Questions? Call_ 272-0218, Debra Sedore payable 1t St. Mary's Business Office 

.. ~--~~----~----~~--------~~------~----~----------------------------------------------~ 
'
. 
3 
Dowty interviewed 
•
Summit represents step 1n right direction 
by Gregory Solman 
"The Camp David Summit should not be viewed as the beginning ofthe end of this historic conflict," commented Alan K. Dowty, professor of government and international studes. "It does represent, however, a step in the right direction in the Middle East.'' 
Though Dowty would prefer to downplay his expertise on the Middle East, one need only enter his office to realize that his perspective on Mideast problems is far from being unjvolved-
On the walls are Hebrew-cap­tioned caricatures of Israeli lead­ers, clipped from a Jerusalem newspaper. The bookshelves are lined with texts on foreign policy and Middle East topics, among them one which he has written himself. 
But his office only hints at his experience. Dowty taught at Hebrew University for seven years, serving as chairman of the depart­ment of international relations. He also worked on the planning branch of the Israel General Staff, as a member of the Governing Commit­tee. . 

Just last June, Dowty traveled as a member of a select group of American educators to Egypt, Sy­ria. Jordan. and Israel, where he sought opinions on options for peace in the Mideast conflict. 
''I recall that in Egypt, there was a strong urge to be done with the entire thing," Dowty recollected. "So in that respect, I'm not totally surprised with what has eventua­ted. But that is not to say that I expected Israel and Egypt to go on to a separate peace." 
Dowty thought that some sort of breakthrough seemed to be a logical consequence of the Sadat initiative. However, he didn't foresee it going as far as it has. 
He credited the Israeli side for "input", also. But that was not unexpected, he said, considering the tremendous advantage a sepa­rate peace with Egypt gives Israel in terms of removing the most critical military threat to them. 
"To a great extent, it has turned out that the issues could not be resolved in terms of right and wrong," he remarked. This agree­ment may never have happened, had both parties remained preoc­cupied on the issues at that level." 
When visiting Syria, Dowty ob­served this to be a major problem, and made the Syrians' reaction to Camp David predictable, "They are not yet thinking along prag­matic lines,'' Dowty said. ''They are still primarily concerned with rights and justice and other related issues." 
Dowty does not foresee any major "stumbling blocks" between the separate Egyptian/Israeli peace, though he stressed that further "linkage" of the separate peace .and general issues could 
cause problems, and that the Saudi Arabians could also pose a prob­lem. 
"The Saudis want to see more 
general issues put into the frame­
work of the agreement," Dowty 
explained. ''As it now is for them, 
the agreement does not solve the 
problem of certain fundamental key 
issues. However, the general 
framework does close the gap and 
give all of the parties a base from 
which to work." -Dowty indicated that Jordan has 
no inclination toward accepting the 
pact without the cooperation of 
other parties involved, particularly 
Syria. 
"Jordan is in a weak position," 
Dowty asserted, "Hussein has 
been isolated in the Arab world, 
and has only recently developed 
good relations with the Syrians. He 
does not want to endanger this relationship.'' 
''He will not commit himself 
until the dust settles. At this point, 
he hasn't closed any doors, and he 
hasn't stuck his neck out, either," 
Dowty continued. 
Dowty gave President Jimmy 
Carter credit for the Camp David 
Summit :md said, "There was 
certainly some skill involved in how 
he handled it." 
"I was worried at first," admit-' 
ted Dowty. "Carter surprised me 
in handling it so well. It was done 
seriously, with no press present, no 
klieg light<: blaring...all of the 
conditions were. present to make 
what happened possible." 
"He played his role in the 
agreement skillfully," he conclu­ded. "He may have exaggerated his accomplishments, but I forgive him. I think it's about time that he had a few things going his way." 
Senator Birch Bayh lectures club on ERA 
by Mary Beth Andrasak Senator Birch Bayh (R-IN) addressed the South Bend Busi­ness and Professional Women's Club last night on the issues surrounding the Equal Rights Amendment (ERA). The main concerns of Bayh's speech were both the topics of the rescission of state ratification and the time extention of the ERA. Bayh argued that never before in the history ofthe nation was there a time limit placed on the ratification of an amendment. "The pursuit of full· equality and justice for the women of America," he added, would be hindered if a time limit were placed on the ratification of the ERA. "Congress responded in the only responsible way it could" in extending the ERA ratification 

SENIOR BAR 
WEDNESDAY 
TONITE GIN & TONIC RUM & COKE 
deadline to June 30, 1982, he said. 
Bayh blamed opposition to the extention of the ERA on a "fear that extention will allow the truth to percolate through the big lies" that penetrate the ERA issue. The Hoosier Senator reported that the ERA proponents have their work cut out for them as a result of "those who cleverly and effectively misrepresent the issue to the point where I don't recognize it." 
"Some ERA advocates are the amendment's worst enemies," Bayh said. "They should provide for their followers the opportunity to choose" actions rather than demand that they be followed out of the homes into the job market. He recognized the importance of the "housewife's" occupation and 
[continued on page 9] 
THURSDAY SIGN UP NOW 
9-11 BEER 3 for $1.00 
BUY NOW 
the observer 

Mountaineering#4.  
pleasures of mountaineeringMountaineering1 is a skill· run the risk of being labeled of tirni:og as well as """'""'·~~­social climbers. But suchnique. The wrong cheap shots are to be ignored. moment, like the They are the work ofcynics,wrong method, nay-sayers and chronicmarks the gap malcontents.between Similarly, the ambienceamateur and of an athletic afternoon (e.g.aficionado. So the The Big Game) is anotherkey to successful mountaineer­ideal moment. Downing ing is to choose the occasio~ the mountains elevateswisely and well. When, then, IS the morale ofthe fan and,it appropriate to slowly quaff .....Ji.I~IIJ:'!'ljillli hence, the team. There-the smooth, refreshing fore, ifyou care at all about mountains of Busch Beer? the outcome, it is your duty toCelebrations, ofcourse, rnountaineer.are both expected and ex­When should one notcellent opportunities to enjoy the invigoration ofthetest your mountaineering mountains? Here, you'll be mettle. Indeed, on major happy to learn, the list isholidays it is virtually much briefer.mandatory Mountaineering is. . ',:,.. .,,., . .to do so: Small ··. ·. · · considered ' Imagine victories like exams passed;-. _ · declasseushering papers completed or classes: · within the attended are equally. ·· · dessert,. fiscal acceptable. ..,,...,_-·. improper . year or Remember the'.: . ·during judi­com-mountain­. -. cial memo-eer's motto: .·. ··ings andjust . rating matricula-. · .. piam foolish while·Calvin C. tion is .. .· crop dusting aroundCoolidge's celebration ··: >._·._......_.:......... power lines. Otherwise, birthday Interper-:: . .:· as the hot-heads of the or throw­sonal relation_:_: ~i:'.'Y,.~ ·· ·sixties used to say, "Seize ing caution to the wind during ships are also · .· · the time!" Take-A-Sorghum-To-Lunch:­· meaning­...-.· _..-.. >.·. ·. Week without the . c.LIM& ful times: There are benefit ofBuschA .: : NT ·few things finer than ~!Iiili disturbing pros­,·: · ~~...... ---·"'···· <taking your compan­1pect at best. : ·_ion in hand and head-On the :· :.ing for the other hand, not the ho-every event and hum-drum be as sign:ifi­in favor of a romantic cant as those R & R. Naturally, outlinedabove. ·•~:~~~~~~.~~~itii7··couples who share the 1 Mountaineering is the science and art of drinking Busch. The term or~inates due t<? the snowy, icy peaks sported by the label outside and perpetuates due to the cold, naturally refreshing taste ms1de. ( cf.lessons l, 2 and 3.) Dorrt just reMh for a beer. euscH~ad for the mountains.  

CIAnheuser-Busch.lnc Sl LOUIS. Mo 

----------.. ­
'. 
Wednesday, October 18, 1978 
the observer 
5 
Badin hopes: 
Underprivileged may attend Irish game 
by 
LesUe Brinkley 
Thirty-one underprivileged stu­dents from the Sacred Heart School on Chicago's south side, will have the opportunity to attend the Tennessee game on Nov. 11, if the women of Badin Hall have their wav. _ . . 
Badin hopes to obtain blocks of seats in the stadium for the students by asking groups of University students to break up and switch seats. 
Depending on student ticket 
donations, the Badin committee 
wants to gather most of their goal ­
forty tickets -before October break, 
although they will still accept 
donations up until Nov. 11. Ellen 
Dorney, Badin Hall president, said 
"We want to make sure everything 
will work out before telling the 
kids." 
Notre Dame student volunteers 
SMC sponsors speakers 
by Betsy Boyle 
The student government will 
sponsor a speaker series this year 
for the first time at Saint Mary's. 
Senior Mary Jo Ptacin, a represen­
tative from SG, said Sundav that 
Saint Mary's hopes to have four to 
six speakers this year. A com­
mittee is now in the process of 
contacting possible guests. 
On November 12, the series 
begins with Pat Paulson. Other 
tentative dates for speakers are 
scheduled for the third week in 
January and the second week in 
February. The presentations will 
be held in O'Laughlin Auditorium. 
Because it is a new idea, the 
series will begin gradually this 
year. Ptacin said she "hopes it will 
El Paso area students meet 
Students from the El Paso area 
are invited to meet with John 
Obermyer, president of the Notre 
Dame Club of El Paso, at 7 p.m. 
Thursday in the LaFortune Little 
Theater. 
The alumni representative will be available to answer questions about the local chapter and also discuss the possible formation of a campus club for El Paso. 
~································ 
' STEREO CLEARANCE HOUSE 
HAS LOWEST STEREO 
PR 
Pioneer SX 980 receiver $384. Technics SL 3300 turntable $120. Akai CS702D cassette $125. 
Our FriHI Catalog has many mora deals on major bra.,., ewn lower prices on our monthly specials shiHit. Send now and lind out how to buy current $7.98 list lp's for $3.89. Stereo Clearance Housa Dept Bl36 1029 Jacoby St., Johnstown, Pa. 15902. 
, Phone Quotes 814-538-1811 
·········~······················· 
The 
Windjammer 
CREATIVE HAIR DESIGN FOR THE SEXES 
RELAXING ATMOSPHERE 
REE HAIR ANALYSI RK RETAIL CENTER 
)
..: ._-·:"··~ 
1637 LW W
( . ~· . ": . ..t 
,"f( So. Bend 232-6622 
. '\::.. ~ !' 
,-\ppt. _only 
are needed to help chaperone the 
eighth_graders throughout the day, 
accordmg to Dorney, especially 
several male volunteers to oversee 
the boys. She said that students 
interested in either donating their 
football ticket or organizing the 
project should contact her at 6922. 
According to present plans a total of forty visitors, including students and faculty, will arrive by bus and spend the day on campus. The students, both male and female, will bring sack lunches and, tentatively, a dinner or cook­out is planned for them after the game. 
Badin's Community Service Director, Layne Salzar, said the weekend will be "something differ­ent for them to experience out of their school in Chicago. It's probably a once in a lifetime chance for them to come and see a game like this. We want to do something 
become a tradition at Saint Mary's College." 
By Thursday the committee hopes to have some more definite responses to their invitations. Further information about the SMC speaker series will be announced at a later date. 
• 
for the kids." 
Badin Hall Rector Sister Verene Girmscheid, who knows the princi­pal of Sacred Heart School, helped set up a similar project called "Weekend of Caring and Sharing" last spring. The eighth grade girls brought alon slee in ba s and 


"Care to join me in a cold Stroh's?" 
~ 
.!f~ 
For the real beer lover. 
stayed for two nights with assigned "big sisters" in Badin. 
At present, two graduated Badin residents, Mary McCormick and Jean Sculati, work at the school and will escort the students to the football game. . 
Dornev predicted that Notre Dame students will find "a lot of these kids are more worldly or streetwise, in a sense, than they may imagine. It will give us a chance to take a step back and look at what we've been blessed with and will give them a vision for the 
future." 
~ ---~ ·---------------------------• --------------#---A-------------------------------------· -------------------­
.. 
~ 
lhe observer 
Marty reflects: 
'The Dream on Main Street' 
by Mary Ann Wissel Staff Reporter 
"No longer is Main Street tradi­tionally the street in downtown as it was in the 1920's. Instead, the Main Streets of our hometowns are the spurs, airport strips and state highways where America pledges allegiance to the flag of McDonald's," according to Prof. 
Mike Marty. 
Marty, a history professor at Florissant Valley Community Col­lege, MO. discussed "The Dream on Main Street" yesterday before an audience of approximately 45 students and faculty in Room 117 Haggar Hall. 
In his lecture, sponsored by the American Studies department, 


SCOnSDALE MALL 
(Ireland and Miami Raad) Phone: 291-6164 
SALE: straight leg cords· all sizes and colors. October 11 to October 22 

Attention: OHIO STUDENTS 
Don't Forget to Vote for 
Richard F. Celeste Democrat for Governor You still have time to obtain 
your absentee ballots 
Proudly Paid for by Lyn Leon,.
e0ot
Notre Dame Friends for Celeste for Go" 
Marty described the American I 
Dream as one ''with variations. It 
is the dream of the American 
people collectively and on by one. 
It is at times fantasy, illusion and 
myth, but it sustains, encourages 
and builds." 
This American Dream is found in 
Americans of the past, Marty 
continued. "Samuel Gompers was 
speaking for more than just the 
members of his union when he 
described their goal in just one 
word: 'more'," Marty said. Marty 
appled Gompers' idea to modern 
America, contending that "more" 
is the essential ingredient in the 
dream of Main Street Americans 
today. 
He claimed that the automobile 
offers the "way to 'more'" since 
today's Main Street emphasizes 
physical mobility. Its establish­
ments represent extensions of the 
automobile which allows Ameri­
cans "to defy what we might call 
one-placeness," Marty said. 
Marty also referred to the nega­
tive side of "more" which does not 
necessarily represent the American 
Dream. This aspect of predictabil­
ity and sameness, reflected in Main 
Street restaurants, "are a product, 
of course, of something called 
'quality control'," he noted. 
Marty voiced other complaints 
against such restaurants, stressing 
their waste of food. McDonald's 
discards hamburgers if they are not 
purchased within ten minutes, he 
said. 
The fast-food chains also drain 
natural resources, according to 
Marty. "Bringing the figures that 
were generated six or seven years 
ago into line with McDonald's 
current size and sales volume would suggest that it takes the sustained yield of more than 600 square miles of forest to keep McDonald's supplied with paper packaging for one year," he said. "Franchise restaurants repre­sent a part of the ongoingness of American life. They are significant for what they tell us about contem­porary society: that it values mobility and quality and that its pace and its changing family and occupational structures call for fast, predictable food service," Marty said. According to Marty, Americans are unwilling to improve their society through public expendi­tures because "we prefer private indulgence." He cited Andrew Hacker, a writer who speculated on America's future, who argued that, as private lives get better and better, public lives get worse and worse. Marty asked, "Where is tech­nology taking us? Does the food technology on Main Street hurry us along in getting there? H Main 
Street does nothing else, it reminds us of the demands for "more," while showing that careful plan­ning--it is quite a ways down the road." 
In conclusion, Marty stated that "technology can be both a destruc­tive and a constructive force. As we face trasformations, the men and women who know this will be called upon for counsel and leader­ship, and we should not hesitate to give it. Putting to work what we know and believe can make a difference." 
J........._..•...._............_......,.._ _...._...~~~_.....,.....................................~~.........,..~..,....,..~.,....,.....,.._..... ...........r..........J 
~ v t~'tton 
r JO ) 
Q 
J \
i C..,. -" """ ..,.n 
~ .Ul€ ~Culty anO StaJ:f of OOtR€ vam€ aR€ COR':JitW.Y 
r ~ J IOVIt€0 to ffi€€t Ulomas UloRson, th€ R€PUBl1can 
\ CMlOJOat€ fOR COn(jR€SS fROm th€ 3RO ll1stR1ct or 
Ii 
lnOJana, at th€ Un1V€RSity aus on 0ctOB€R 18, 1978 
-----------._-r---------­
PLACEMENT BUREAU 
. Main Building 
IIITD.VIEVS SCB!DUl.ID POR THE WEft OP' OCTOBD 31 
"-'CEHIIIOT Dm!lVI!IIS ARE RILD Ill TRJ.E! ( 3) DIPI"D.I!Ifr I.OCATI<IIS THIS VI:AR. 
1. 
Ita. 222 Ad.hhtntion Blda. 

2. 
2nd Ploor Student Canter 

3. 
latt Lotaa•-ll..&anine-c.ater tor Contlnutaa lducat10111 


PLIASI UCORD IIITIIYI!V LOCATlmtS AT T~ OP S IGII-UP. 
IMPORTAliT 
SIGII U1' TID liED: OF OCTOBD 16 FOR Dm!IVIIIIS 
SCIIBWLID AnD Fo\LL BRIAJ: (II!!]( OF OCTOBD 3l) 
PLI:AS! IIOT! YOUR RECORDS 
C'II AutQMtic !ltctrlc 
Tuea. !H in n ao.d Ca.p Set or ca.biaatlon. (Chanse in raqutr-enta .tnca printina or Manual). Glonit Iplt ttyto oC Ttshooloay3i[Ad "'t Ptorr•• B in all dhcipllnu. ­
~ 
ll<.U!1lW! Cgopen & Lybrand 
Tu../Wed B in Acet. KBA vlth Acct. back1round or concan­tratton. Gt.Qcral Qrpeelu Corporation 
BKD ln A!, Ml, M!IO, !!, lnsr. SC:l. 

h::zog Coroorat lon !MD 1n ChE. BK ln ltrtl&ht Ml. 11M ln Kilt. 
Wov. 1 ~  Procter & C..ble Cqg,tPy. Hta. Hllnacrwep,t 111 ln Chi, K!, EE, CE, H!IO. MBA vlth tech. llS. Tf!Cal Chrhtian Ynlyenlty. Cud Budoe11 .f:rRa. All dear"' and dhclpll.llrl.  
ClArk lqulFWnt CcaRAilJ B 1D K! and KilO. IIi la Acct. Unlvenltr of Htchiltp. Grtd 8 1n all dbclpllDff  Ssboel pf Due  4 de1n  
Nov. 2 3 Tbun Pri  Schneider Tran•eort Inc, PJH in all tn1r. dbcipllnee.  1M in !con.  BH 1a MJt.  

llov. J BASP Wyandotte Corpontion 
rrr.--1 in Chi 
arun..tck Corporation 
I lD Acct. 
Crowe, Chl&rk and eo.pertr 
Bin Acct. MBA with Acct. bkArnd or 
lAver Bro•. , Inc. All BBA. Olter. Dhillon of Sunb..-Corp. 1 
iD ,.t. !nd Pin, 
J. C. r.nny 8 ln Lib. A.ru and Bua. Ad. Jturt Saleon A1aoclatea 8H tn Ml, H!JO, lnsr. Sc.l. KIA vith 
undergr•d. de1rea. Stepan Chetalcal CO!fany IlK in Ch! end Ch•. 
u. s. Steel Corpontioa B tn n, Kl. Met. Veteran. Alhlinhtrrtlor 8H in Lib Arta......ut qualify tor PACE 
BA, ltC, sc. Whirlpool Corporation BM in !! and K!, 
concentntion 
tech. 
!ZU~, JIM ln 
Cola.bh Untveulty. Grad. S(:hool of Buaineaa 
All  Dhclplinea•. . . . . . . . . .  
LAW  SCHOOLS  
Capital Univenlty  Oct.  30  
Dicken•on Lev  School  Nov.  1  
Vanderbilt Univentty  Nov.  3  

'----------------------------~ 
U.S.· Senator Robert Dole campaigns for Thorson 
by Kevin Richardson Senior Staff Reporter 
U.S. Senator Robert Dole (R-Kansas) was in South Bend yesterday to keynote a luncheon fundraiser for third District Repub­lican congressional nominee Thomas L. Thorson. The former GOP Vice-Presidential candidate is one of many prominent Republi­cans who have come to the Third District to campaign for Thorson. 
In his speech to approximately 250 people, Dole outlined "the tremendous opportunity Republi­cans have in 1978 to offer the voters attractive alternatives to the same old policies which have ushered in our current national problems.'' 
Concentrating on economic issues, Dole emphasized what he termed "the end of the era where politicians can buy political power with taxpayer's dollars." He cited that combined problems of taxes and inflation as the cornerstone of "the Republican comeback." 
''The American people under­stand that what makes it difficult for them to balance their budgets is the fact that the government re­fuses to balance its own. Every­time the cost ofliving goes up by 10 percent, government revenues go up 16 percent. As it stands now, there's no incentive for govern­ment to stem inflation because government is benefitting from
inflation,'' Dole said. 
~ 
Dole stated that it is important
~for Republicans to provide work­[ able answers to the problems the J nation faces today. "We must do \ more than just call the Democratsi 'bad guys' and tell the voters we're ~ available. We must present solid 
I programs to the public," Dole said. 
· He cited income tax indexing for ~ inflation as an example of a positive I program." j Also included in Dole's remarks 
!~~!ald~~~ne~san~ra :ov:~~;:~ 
scrutinizing of the Strategic Arms 
Limitation Treaty which will be 
submitted to the Senate next year. 
In closing his remarks, Dole 
talked of the need for Republicans 
to organize across the country "for 
the preservation of the two-party 
system." He said that Indiana's 
Third Congressional District race 
provides the opportunity for Re­
publicans to show "what we can do 
for the people and not just what the 
Democrats have done to the 
people." 
Local political observers consider 
the Dole visit a boost to the 
Thorson campaign. "It reflects the 
belief by the national Republican 
party leaders of the 'win-ability' of 
this congressional seat," Brent 
Bahler, Thorson's campaign man­
ager said. 
School counselors to attend college workshop 
Secondary school counselors in 
Northern Indiana will attend a 
college entrance workshop in the 
CCE tomorrow. Sessions will 
include an update on current 
precedural information related to 
admissions testing, credit by exam­
mination and financial aid, both 
state and federal. 
One of nine workshops sche­
duled in the state, the program is 
sponsored by the Midwest Office of 
the College Board in cooperation 
with the Indiana Student Financial 
Aid Association and the State 
Student Assistance Commission of 
Indiana. Joseph Russo, director of 
financial aid at Notre dame, is 
serving as coordinator for the 
meetings which will begin at 8:30 
a.m. 
NO students 
\ I sponsored health care insurance l at 4:30 p .m . i plan designed to cover catastrophic charter bus home 
J j situations in lieu of the proposed Those interested in taking thei """ r .,.,. 'h.. l comprehensive national health in-Washington D.C. Area Club's 
1 notRE vanl€ ~Ulty anO StaH foR LIIORSOn COmmittE€ -!surance plan currently sponsored chartered bus home for the October
1 
• ,n.,.,.. V ''· j by many congressional Democrats. break should contact Carl LaFrance 
\John connau(jhton, ChaiRman Vl.clUE'ta UCI\.OVIC' VICE-chaiRman Dole also called for a careful at 3311. 
~--..,.......,_..,..w_,__._ ,...,...._.....,....,..,_ ....,. ....,.....,.....,.:.....,...,. .,... ...,....,...,.,....., 
• 1;, ' 
• 
•1 
Crew: 
Early hours, hard work and a good view 
Ask anyone what they know about the Notre Dame Crew and the answer you will receive will probably be something like, "Oh, don't they get up at five o'clock in the morning and go down to the St. Joe's?" While it is true that oarsmen do sometimes suffer from chronic cases on insomnia, to ignore the panoramic beauty of the river and the diligent work intrinsic to crew would be a mistake. 
Rowing is a team sport of the highest order. Each person is part of a boat, striving to move as a single entity. It is a sport which requires an enormous amount of dedication and work. One must enjoy rowing to do it, in the words of the immortal Mike Meenan, "I row because it's fun and if it stops being fun, I'll quit." 
Notre Dame Crew was founded in 1964 by an industrious group of Notre Dame students, who without any previous exper­ience on the water, hitchhiked to a race and rowed. Later, the crew became situated at its present location at the Mishawaka Marina. Women's crew was established in 1973, founded by Frank "Oete" Graham. For a newly organized crew, the women's crew reached national recognition by winning the Midwest Sprints in 1973 and 1974 and be placing second in the Eastern Sprints in 1974. 
The schedule of a typical oarsman is rigorous. A day in his life begins at 5:30 
a.m. when the bus leaves Stepan Center for the Marina 10 miles away. Once there, the team must carry the boats to the water occasionally "into" the water. Practice time is usually limited to an hour and a half at best, as the schedules of team members require them to be back in time for class. Besides workouts in the mornings, crew members must lift weights and run an average of three miles a day (hmmm.). Participation in crew is often to the exclusion of many other activities -most notably sleep. 
Hoth men·s and women's crew row eight and four man shells. Although they compete separately, the crew is a single club. Both field varsity and novice rowing teams. Mike Meenan, a four year veteran, is presently coaching the men's varsity and Mike "Sundance" Miller is at the helm of the men's novice. Jody Gormley, who rowed four years with the women's crew, now is in her second year of coaching. 
The major problem that faces the crew is the lack of funds to buy badly needed new shells. At Notre Dame, the club sports are alloted approximately 1200 dollars per yaer from the Athletic fund to maintain their sport. For some sports, where little more than uniforms and equipment are needed, this is often more than adequate. However, the crew must purchase all of its equipment from select boat manufacturers, spending up to 7000 dollars for every eight man shell. This makes the club sonsider­ably dependent on alumni support. Most of the boats have been donated by funds from these ~umni or the parents of the oarsmen. 
Crew competes during both the fall and spring semesters. In the autumn, the novices race against the perennial rivals of Purdue or Michigan. This year's first home meet saw the novice men and women soundly defeat their Michigan counter­parts. The varsity too defeated their respective rivals by a considerable distance of open water -crew terminology for a smear. 
The climax of the fall season is an international racing regatta, the Head of the Charles, in Boston. This is the fourteenth Annual H~d and is the largest single day regatta in the world. Held on October 22, the race is a gruelling test of strength and endurance. It attracts top teams and inidvidual competitors from colleges, universities, and clubs from across the United States and Canada. 
This year the Irish are sending an elite varsity men's eight and a mixed eight consisting of four men and four women. Rowing in the elite eight are Captain Robbie Wettach, Paul Devitt, Mark Davis, Kurt Weber, Carl La France, Chris Lyons, Sundance, Dick O'Malley, and coxswain Bill MacKay. This year, the Regatta will inaugurate the first "mixed eight" race of international competition. This race will feature 40 eight oared shells. Regatta sponsors, The Cambridge Boat Oub, hope that this rowing "first" will prove to be both highly competitive and great fun. Rowing in the mixed eight are Mike Hammerly, Bob Flynn, Laura Rohrbach, Marty Murphy, Jay Ferrerra, Ginny Ott, Kathy Dilworth (women's captain), Mickey McGowan, and coxswain Terri Hinz. 
The spring season is longer consisting of small meets and participation in the larger regattas such as the Midwest Sprints, Eastern Sprints, Dad Vails, Mariettas, and the Miami Internatkmal Invitational. Last year the Notre Dame Rowing Oub traveled hundreds of miles for an extremely varied racing schedule . 
. The season culminates with the annual award ceremony; recalling the most mem­orable moments of the season -best oarsman, best style, did you, did you, and the most improved award. Thus, crew parties are a breed unto themselves whether they be after a major regatta or at home in South Bend. For crew is more than a sport -it is a way of life. The pursuit of indivi~ual recognition is secondary to the combined team effort. 
by Marlbeth Moran 
Poetry in motion 

• 
a 
Wednesday, October 18, 1978
r the ob~rvar
8 

HARVARD UNIVERSITY 
LAW? BUSINESS? 
or PUBLIC POLICY? 
Which graduate program offers the best preparation for a career In public service? On Friday, October 20, Greg Upscomb, a representati~ of the John F. Kennedy 
School of Government at Harvard Univer­sity, will be on campus to discuss the School's program In public policy. Students from all majors are invited. Contact Placement Bureau, Administra­tion Bldg., Rm. 213, 283-83.42. 
r=::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::==:::::::=::::::==========~=:=============================:======<======~==========:==============:========:===============t: 
(:St. Mary s Soc1al Comm1ss1on fJ i!~i & McCandless Hall present :j!i
:::: :::: 
!ill Halloween 
!!i! 
llll Masquerade Party=!!! iliJat Angela Athletic Facility[[!: 
!i!i Monday October 30, 1978  8-12pm  !iii  
illl  Drinks & munchies 1.50  ilil  
~  N  

l~=====S9=~=~::;::Yi!Tt.t:Jt~=~====='=i§I====~:S?:~TYr~~'=~=====; 

•
• •
: l.evl»ans 
: Sttalght Legs : Bell Bottoms : Levi Corduroy 
a. a Levi man 
by Diane Carey 
The Notre Dame chapter of Amnesty International (AI) is spon­soring a series of lectures as part of the International Prisoner of Con­science Week, scheduled Oct. 15-22. 
Mike Guay, University media information officer, said that the purpose of Prisoner of Cons~ience Week is to raise the community's. awareness that torture is a common practice in twentieth century civil­ized countries. 
Mark Hommes, president of Notre Dame's AI chapter, noted that, aside from informing the public about political prisoners, the groups sponsor letter-writing campaigns to make influencial people in other nations aware that an injustice has been committed in their country. 
According to Guay, no chapter works for reform\ within its own 
The ONLY Place Fot Jeans NORTH VILLAGE mALL 
U.S. 31 North at Darden Rd. 9-9 Austria unique 
Lanzingerpresents lecture 
by Brian McFeeters 
Professor Klaus Lanzinger presented an informal lecture about Austria's "Unique position in the world" in honor of the Austrian national holiday yesterday afternoon in the Memorial Library. 
.. A native Austrian, Lanzinger expressed his pleasure at the observance of this holiday at Notre Dame and St. Mary's. "Austrians today have many reasons to be happy,'' he said, and added that they would be glad to know some Americans are celebrating also. The holiday celebrates the State Treaty, a treaty signed by the United States, France, England, and Russia in 1955, which declared Austria neutral. 
Lanzinger stressed the unique position of Austria in Europe, both for its neutrality and its location. Austria's neutrality is valuable to the West since it serves as a "wedge" in the communist bloc of nations. But it is also helpful to the communists, Lanzinger pointed out, because, together with Swit­zerland, Austria divides the NATO countries into northern and south­ern portions. 
Today Austria is a member of numerous international organiza­tions and will soon open a United Nations complex in Vienna. The country is secure in its parlimen­tary form of government, Lao­zinger stated, and has made "im­portant contributions to ease and improve relations between East Klaus Lanzinger, professor of modern languages. [Photo by Markand West." 
Muench]. 

NO Amnesty International 
sponsors lecture series 
country. "If you're working within AI is a worldwide organization 
your own country, the possibility of that works fro the release of government sanctions is too individuals who have never com­great," Guay said. mitted violent crimes but imprison­Notre Dame's AI chapter has ed because of their race or beliefs 
"adopted" prisoners in Rhodesia, on politics or religion.Argentina and the Cameroun and 
Speaking out against arbitrarywrites letters requesting their re­detention, torture, unfair trials andlease. According to Hommes, the the death penalty, about 200,000letter-writing campaign is perhaps people work through AI in over 100the group's most effective means of 
countries. During the last year,pressure. 
members exposed 5,000 cases inHe described the case of a violation of the Universal Declara­Rhodesian prisoner who was re­tion of Human Rights.
leased from jail in March only to find that his crops and home had AI was founded in 1961 by Peter been destroyed. The Notre Dame Beneson to "bring out of the AI chapter sends him a monthly dungeons the 'Forgotten Prison­check of $50 to help him support his ers."' The organization won the wife, child and seven dependents. Nobel Peace Prize in 1977 and has The Check's amount "goes a long consultative status with the United way in Rhodesia," Hommes noted. Nations. 
Mardi Gras begins raffle 
Mardi (;ra~ raffle tickets will be 
di~trihutcd to students bv ~ertion rcprc~cntativcs the week. of N(w. 
13. Students receive a free chance 
• 
for the seller's prize. as well as an Notte Dame -St. mary Students Get 10% OFF II 
admission pass into Mardi Gras. 
for each complete book sold. 
In addition, there will be mone­tary prizes awarded to the three halls with the highest percentage1of returns. 
The grand prize for this year's Mardi Gras raffle is a 1979 Olds' · Cutlass Supreme and the seller's prize is a Starfire XS. The prizes have been donated this year by Jim Hammes Oldsmobile of Misha-
Lady L•vl waka. The drawing for both prizes will be the final night of Mardi Gras, Feb. 17.
Super Sttalghta . 
Corduroy Blues Festival Fashion Tops holds meeting 
a. a L•vl Wom~n . 
There will be a meeting for all those interested in taking tickets at the Midwest Blues Festival on Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. in the Student Union offices on the second floor of LaFortune. The Blues Festival will be held Friday, November 3 and Saturday, Novem­ber 4. 
In addition, the Festival commit­
is looking for individuals inter­ested in operating a concession stand both nights. For further infclrm.attc:m, call 6244 or 289-1803. 
'-'---~··-.... ··-----·---··-----·,. 
Persons with questions should ('all Frank Byrne, Ann Marie C'alacci, or Rosemary Serbent. raffle chairmen . 
Garraty talks 
Prof. John A. Garraty, Columbia University, will give this year's first Humanistic Studies "lecture at Saint Mary's tonight at 7:30p.m. in Carroll Hall. His talk will focus on "Work and Idleness in Modern Societies." 
Garraty formerly taught at Mich­igan State University which award­ed him an honorary doctor of humane letters degree in 1969. In past years he has held Guggenheim ,Ford and Social Science Research Council fellowships and spent a year as a fellow at the Center for Advanced Study of the Behavoral Sciences at Stanford University. A former president of the Society of American Historians, he is editor of the Dictionary of American Bio­graphy and a member of the advisory boards of American Herit­age magazine. 
Sorin and Walsh to give blood 
Residents of Sorin and Walsh halls are asked to volunteer to give blood. The sign-ups are taking place this week. For further information, see Pat Shaughnessy 8502, in Sarin and Seth Willard, 8152, in Walsh. 
._, 
·. 

9 
Women's club hears Bayh 
[continued from page 3] suggested it be legally recognized. Bayh declared that after seven years, the ERA is "still impor­tant.'' He cited such reasons as the "pay discrepancies" that still exist between male and female peers; that ''blacks now live under a higher legal standard than women"; and that despite separate legal victories "discrimination against the female has not yet been ruled illegal by the courts." "The dual standards applied to some laws have got to end," Bayh said in discussing pay, prostitution, 
homosexuality,  and  employment  
opportunities  with  the  female  
Hoosier audience.  

On the rescission of ratification attempted by several states, Bayh commented that "rescissions have never before been permitted or counted" in constitutional history. Therefore "no precedent has been set," he said. "We can't send a message to the legislature to let them think they can play with the rescission issue." 
Bayh warned the audience that "if ratification doesn't pass con­gressional and legislative action on it will regress because Congress will believe it isn't all that impor­tant" to the people. He uri' ... continued support of the ERA. He also applauded the women's organ­izations, such as the one he addressed, for their supportive and powerful influence in the move-Senator Birch Bayh, U.S. Senator of Ind. [Photo by Mark Muench]. ment toward ERA ratification. 
With foreign students 
Group desires better relations 

by Cathy Santoro 
"It's up to us to make the new international students feel at home at Notre Dame," Beth Kline, president of the International Students' Organization at Notre Dame, stated. 
"We hope to open new channels of international communication by destroying the myths and stereo­types people hold concerning dif­ferent cultures,'' she added. 
The organization is comprised of 400 students form 68 different countries. American students also can be mem\>ers. The club is open to undergraduate and graduate students from any country who want to share their cultures with others at Notre Dame. 
Club members have the oppor­tunity to share their cultures during the One Earth Week which is sponsored by the organization. These five days include lectures by visiting ambassadors and films on different countries, culminating in 
DOONESBURY 

the International Festival. At this 
event, students perform their 
native songs and dances before an 
audience in Washington Hall. 
In conjunction with the One Earth theme, the students will organize an international market­place to sell handmade crafts and jewelry. The market will be set up in the Rathskellar of the LaFortune Student Center during the week of Nov. 13-17. 
The club also hosts a coffee hour 
on Wednesdays from 11 a.m. to 1 
p.m. in the club's loungc!Students' Lounge, located in the basement of LaFortune. The coffee hour is another attempt to promote greater friendship between people from all over the world and students from Notre Dame, according tu Kline. 
Elected president of the organi­zation last April, Kline stressed that adjusting to a new culture and overcoming the language barrier is difficult. "International students are here to meet Americans and learn their way of life," she said, 
118501.1JmY NOT! AS I 70£0 NBC­~Y. THe 5TJ(fJ66I£ FOR tJ5 NEVE/?. EN/JS. 7HE JEWISH Pf0Pt.F3 
MUSTNEVER LET OOWN 7HEIR. 
6VARJ) AGAIN5T 7HE ENeMY! 

ABC NB.I/5 WI7H/JR8A/ 
7H& Q()I35Tt(J.I. BACK A~7HI5 .. 

but "it's often too easy to form 
ethnic cliques and avoid speaking 
English." 
The organization is faced with 
the task of electing a new director 
this year since the death of Fr. 
Daniel J. O'Neil who served as the 
Foreign Students' Advisor last 
year. Kline said that it will be 
difficult to replace O'Neil. "He 
really cared about the international 
students and what happens to them 
at Notre Dame," she said. 
The Foreign Students' Advisor is in charge of the 400 club members and handles their housing and visa problems. Mrs. Betty Fitterling, O'Neil's secretary is serving as the acting director of the organization until a new advisor is elected in the spring. 
The membership of the Interna­tional Students Organization has increased annually. Kline sug­gested that one reason why an increasing number of foreign stu­dents are studying so far from home is the good reputation that Notre Dame has abroad. 
NO Jazz Band announces first concert 
The Notre Dame Jazz Band will present its first concert of the 78-79 season in the Nazz tonight at 9 p.m. There is no charge for the concert. 
The band will perform music from various periods of jazz his­tory, highlighting the music of Count Basic and other modern writers for the big jazz bands. 
Following the big band perfor­mance at about 10:30 p.m. will be a set by the Notre Dame One O'Clock Combo. 

SATURDAY OCT· 28 7:30pm 
NOTRE DAME A ·C ·C · All Seats Reserved $8.50 & -$7.50 Tickets now on sale at 
A.C.C. Box Office 9am to Spm 
and STUDENT UNION TICKET OFFICE 
DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY 
Openings for technical and general management trainees 
Department of the Navy, Military Divisions, will be conducting inter­views on campus this semester. Check placement office for time and date. Positions will be opening in January 1979 and thereafter for the following: 
TECHNICAL 
Aviation Engineering Nuclear Power Computer Technology 
GENERAL 
Business Admin. Education Arts and Sciences Personnel 
QUALIFICATIONS Minimum of BA/ BA degree or college seniors. Federal regulations limit age to 26 (adjustable for veterans). Reloca­tion required. Applicants must pass rigurous physical/mental ex­ams and qualify · for a security clearance. 
BENEFITS Full medical/dental/ 
life  insurance.  30  days  paid  
vacation annually.  Full prom otion  
opportunities.  

PROCEDURE Send resume to: Navy Officer Consultants NRD Chicago, Bldg. 41, Code 04 Glenview, IL 60026 
EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER US CITIZENSHIP REQUIRED 
.mr~rn ~lL ~rro:m ~~rnCIDu:rcarn~~ ~rm~~~ooo 000~ ~~ mmm :&!~~ggg \JJmiDo ~ ~~oo'Aia; ~~ tEso mllf'fi~~ ~ 
(9-11 :OOpm) the 1 jazz band (11:00-???) the 1-o'clock jazz band 
'a'lli\D'lli~o ~ rr®!Lrn. rn®aJm "'Jmlli brian mchale jim murray debbie shemancik :~(9-???) 

.,
, Wednesday, October 18, 1978
1o the observer 
Fullback Jerome -Heavens: three years and 2,363 yards later.. ~ 
by Gregory Solman backer to fill-in the backfield, had Dan Devine was not as reserved Assistant Sports Editor gotten hurt. Heavens was inserted on the record-breaking accom­"Let's win one for the Gipper." at fullback. plishment: Devine commented, 
Put these words along side of Heavens ran for twelve yards, "And it's difficult to recognize an "Well, that's the way the ball then fumbled the ball away. achievement such as this when one bounces," and "When the going "His career has gone uphill ever is 1,\S close to the picture as we on gets tough, the tough get going." since," laughs Devine. the team are." These lines are enshrined in the Indeed, three years and 2,363 "I think in later years," predicts minds of sports fans all over. They grueling yards later, Jerome Devine, "Jerome is going to be a are classics, in every sense of the Heayens is Notre Dame's all-time legend, just like George Gipp." word. Ieadmg rusher. "Only right now," Devine 
The phrase "Let's win one. for It happened Saturday against laughed, "Jerome doesn't know' Jerome" is not likely to replace the Pittsburgh. It happened during the it." Gipper's famous line; nor is the fo_urth qu~rter, i~ the middle of an "I didn't know him personally," legend of Jerome Heavens likely to lnsh sconng drtve--the one that remarked Heavens in the confusion overshadow that of Gipps. Why, ~ou~d win the game. He was following the game, "But I've they haven't even built a lounge ptckt~g them up slowly and surely. heard that George Gipp was a great after Heavens, yet. He htt for two yards up the middle, individual as well as a great 
But give Jerome Heavens credit-then a?ded four more a play later. football player ... he comes from a because he deserves all that he Then, tt hap~ened_: t~e sentor from great line of football tradition." gets plus more. Just ask his coach, East St. Louts, Ilhnots became the That he is now a very large part Dan Devine. Devine has been oft all-time leading ground-gainer, of that football tradition is undeni­quoted as saying that Heavens is eclipsing George Gipp's recordthat able. the best freshman back he ever had stood intact since 1920. From here, it will undoubtedly coached. Devine says that he's got . He_ totaled 120 yards Saturday, be continued uphill climbing for excellent balance, that he's a team hts btggest day of the season--and Jerome Heavens ... and knowing player, and that he's worked out as possibly one of the biggest days of him, he just may reach the top. an Irish team captain "extremely his life. well." "I'm just thankful to God that I 
Still, Devine can't help recalling had the opportunity to accomplish the first time Heavens ever ran the this," remarked Heavens in the 
Women 1S hockey team wins
football for him. It was against lockerroom after the game, "I'm Boston College in 1975, Devine's happy I got the chance." first game as Coach, Heavens first "First of all, I have to thank the game as a runner. The game was teams from 1975 to now that helped by Kathy CampaneUa however, with 12:30 gone by, Tracy Blake and Mary Ann Dooley. on national television. Jim Brown-me achieve this record," Heavens Sports Writer permit Eastern Michigan to score. But in the game of field hockey, er who had moved in from line-said. With just one goal separating the teamwork is the key which unlocks 
On Friday the thirteenth, the two teams, the play was very tense the door to winning, and the Notre Notre Dame women's field hockey for the remainder of the game. Dame team has shown that. this is team travelled to Ypsilanti, Michi­just what they have. On Friday,
During the game, Notre Dame
Belles hockey team 
gan to challenge the field hockey the Irish consistently played excel­
had 7 shots on goal, while goal-
teams from Northern Michigan lent hockey. University and Eastern Michigan 
keeper Mary Hums kept the 9 Eastern Michigan shots from going , Notre Dame's two
University. Playing in top form,
shuts out Valpo, 3-0 
in. Like the first game, both teams victories were very important ones, 
the Irish came up winners in both 

played very well, but in the end the not just in raising their record ·to games.
the ball after the h&lf until Valpo's Irish proved to their opponent that 8-2, but also as an inspiration for
In their first match-up, Notre
offense broke through to again they were the better team. their upcoming contests.
Dame faced Northern Michigan,
challenge the SMC defense. Tuite The next game for the Irish will
last year's Michigan State Cham­Carrie Rooney, Susie McGlinn,
The Saint Mary's Field hockey stole the ball and dribbled down be on Wednesday October 18
pions, and upset them by a score of and Mary Hums led the Irish with team closed their season yesterday the field passing to Beth Welsh against Marion College at Marion1-0. Much of the first period was a their exceptional playing. Other
with a shut-out victory against who scored th~ second point of the Indiana. ' 
back-and-forth struggle with both standouts include Donna Omori,visiting Valparaiso University, 3-0, game. 
teams playing very well. The
ending the season with a record of 
solitary goal of the game was
3-5-1. Again Valpo controlled the ball 
scored by Mary Claire Tollaksen
Valpo dominated the first in SMC's backfield with several 
with thirty-two minutes gone by in 
collegiate crossword 
minutes of the game in SMC's attempted goals until the Belles, 
the first half. The shot was set up
hKkfield until Patty Tuite of Saint •regaining possession of the ball, 
by Mary Ann I>'iiimey who sent a
Mary's.stole the ball and passed to •rushed the goal and Meagher, 
perfect pass to. the center, which
right-wing Patty Meagher who as~isted by Welsh, slapped in the 
Tollaksen then knocked in for the
drove in a clean shot to score the thtrd 11oal of the game. 
score.
first point for the Belles. With twelve minutes remaining 
The second period was equally
in the half, Valpo tried to score, but as Ndrthern
exciting Michigan
After the face-off, Valpo agains again the SMC defense held them 
fought to score, while NL tre Dame
controlled the ball in SMC's bact­off to win J-0. 
strove to maintain its lead. A close 
field, but their attempted goal was Saint Mary·s coach Ann Liettle opportunity came for the Irish on ablocked by SMC goalie Bonnie commented, "As a new group penalty stroke play. This is aKeyes. Although Valpo's offense working together, we've really one-on-one shot taken by anyreml!fned in SMC's backfield, the 
'improved." offensive player when the opposing BeUes1 strong defense kept their This was the last game for team's goalie has committed a foul.
opponents from scoring as the first seniors Suzanne Davis and Amy Mary Ann Dooley, who took thehalf ended 1-0. 
Karkiewicz. shot, rifled the ball past the goalie, Saint Mary's gained control of but unfortunately it hit the goalpost and did not go in . 

.., ............... 
During the game, Irish goalkeep­er Mary Hums was kept very busy · by the Northern Michigan offense, which was awarded 15 corners and
HEY, JEFF? 
took over 17 shots on goal. Hums
ARE YOU GOING TO 
played an outstanding game as she
TJIER4Fm'? led the Notre Dame team in thwarting each offensive thaC Northern Michigan could initiate. 
The second game was as hard fought and exciting as the first. In it, Notre Dame defeated Eastern MicHigan by a score of 2-1. During the first half, the Irish scored both of their goals, while playing very strongly. The first goal was scored 46 Unit of resistance 11 Act
ACROSS
by Mary Claire Tollaksen with just 48 Soviet sea 13 Artificial channel over twenty minutes gone by, 1 "Beat it!" 50 Forays 15 Defrost 
6 Sticks together 51 Prefix: new 17 ----out (defeated)
unassisted. The second goal was 
12 Illness symptom 52 With 21-Across, 20-Khan
scored by Carrie Rooney at 25:10. 
14 Biblical mountain Calif. college town 23 Soft drink manu-
Her shot was taken off a goalie facturer
15 Labor 53-soup 
save. 16 Aircraft landing 54 Saying what's on 24 Restraining lines Although not playing as impres­aid one's mind 27 Songbirds 
lB Engages 56 The Three -28 Human beings
sively as the first half, the Irish 
19 Middle East 59 Innocence 31 To give: Sp.
continued their good performance 
initials 61 Make certain 33 Path (abbr.)
into the second period. They did, 
21 See 52-Across 62 Formally withdraw 36 Hits 22 Former basketball 63 Considered 37 Plundered league 64 "Nothin~ could be 38 Marine mollusk 23 Archie Bunker, for 39 Passed away, as one time 25 Accordingly 40 Certain automobiles
DOWN
26 Calendar abbrevi-41 Acknowledge defeat 
ation Penmen 42 College major 27 Places 2 Cary Grant movie 45 Golf ball's positi 29 Was corrosive 3 Sp1it 47 Beauty mark 30 Calm 4 Seward's folly 49 -change 32 Rushed violently (abbr.) J4 Veni, vidi,­34 Jazz pianist Tatum 5 Roman 1051 55 Item for Julia 35 Shanty 6 Guard units Child 36 Glitter 7 Exi-st 57 Postage stamp 40 Choose 8 Frivolous -ingredient43 Ad-· 9 Pay· for 58 Sooner than 44 Actor Peter -.-JO Coll 60'World War I group 



REMINDER.IIIII ~Need rides to Tuscan or as far west as I Rumor has It the Phoques have split up. Ed1~onal page, som~ne Is goln~ to .'l~!l 
I
---------------------------·--------,~~-----~ ­
CLASSIFlED I Disco Class begins Wad-Oct 111-than Nov possible. Mary 4-1-4702. Say it ain't sol 1 their eyes poked out {HA HA A~·J1 I I 1-8-15 ate at STEPAN. 7:30-9:00p.m. 1 I ~ 1 Walk in alone or couples. Change Help! I desperately need ride to Texas To the KIDNAPPERS, the Driver, and all I Disco CMac, I ADs I partners all eve. Fun! Fun! Be my guest 1 for break. Will share driving, expenses. I the Accomplices! I Silk shirt &gold chains on Friday. I
1 1st class. Notre Dame-Saint Marys I Call 8598. I What would I do without all you crazy Fred AstalreI the observer 11 welcome. Fran Demarko. people? I couldn't have had a better I St St II Wednesday, October 18, 1978 I I Attention! Need ride to Boston for 1 birthday. T.R.C.M.A.!! Thank you, Hi~~Y b~~~·day to our 11 Macho Man. 
INVITATION October break. Call Renee, 3848. thank y~u, thank you!! Love, 1 Rosemary & SueII The Faculty and Staff of Notre Dame are 1 I Ann mane I
I 
cordially Invited to meat Thomas Thorson OVERSEAS JOBS-Summer/full time. I I Gary Trudeau is an incarnated joke.I NOTICES I tl)a Republican Candidate for Congress 1 Europe, S. America, Australia, Asia, etc. Wanted: Secret Admirer who drop kicks I Plagued by acme, baldness, houseitosisl1 from the 3rd District of Indiana, at the I All fields, $50D-$1200 monthly, expenses 1 55-yard field goals. or warts? Are you neurotic, depressed or 
Student Checks cashed with SMC-ND I University Club on October 18, 1978 at paid, sightseeing. Free info.-Write: 1 a hopeless hypochondriac? Suffer froml 
II.D. card at Mar-Main Pharmacy, 426 N. 4:30p.m. I International Job Center, Box 4490-14 1 Well hi! to the no-no. Hi from Goose! I constipation or constricted quarters? I Michigan. [Park at McDonald's) I Notre Dame Faculty and Staff for Thorson Berkeley, CA 94704. Humorist anonymous could be your 
I 
Study Abroad this summer? Interested-Committaa-I I Grandma Doyle: salvation. · 
John Connaughton, Chairman .I need ride east 1-80 to Penn State Exit, I I'll be home to see ya soon! I II Contact Dr. A. R. Black SMC 4948. I I Oct. break. Kevin 283-1652 and 3745. Guess Who? I Congrats to Jim Rice, 25 Morissey. ShirtI
Vladata Vuckovlc, Vlca-Chalrman for "The good, The Bad, and The Ugly"
I I I I I I
Typing done in my home. Fast, accurate, is on the way
Desperately need ride to Atlanta for Oct. Trina, The AdonisI reasonable. Close to campus. Phone I Riders needed to Chicago leaving Fri. 1 break. Can leave after Emil. Will share I 1Love you and Miss You 272-7866. . I AM and Sat. AM $5.00 to O'Hare or driving/expenses. Call Tom, 1135. AI I If you like Lenny Bruce, you'll lovel 
I . downtown. Call Terry 288-5707. Humorists Anonymous. Coming Soon.
1 I 
Planning awadding or dance? Music for 1 NePd ride to Colorado for break. If going 1 Patti, I p "d s I 
I that spacial occasion. The Dann!s 1 George Carlin for res1 ent. upport
Need 2 GA's for Miami. Call 8792. to Jr through call 232-8339, will pay. I'm so Happy to see you. To the best Fall 1 your local chapter of Humorist Anony-1
Bamber Quartet. 272-8266. I I 1 Break ever. 1LOVE YOU. mous.
I 
Need ride to Minnesota, will share Dave I ----------I 
Watch "Fancy Fingers Farias" on the I 1 1 Help!!! Need one large canoe plus four
I Desperately need 4 Miami GA tlx. Call expenses. Ca Bob 749. I beautiful women to share exotic adven-·
8:25a.m. WNDU news. A star Is born!! Kath'' 4_ _ CAT-EYES·. · 
1 1 5764. 
1 11 6 1 
ture over October Break. Destinat1on
I 
FOR RENT I Nf>ad ride to St. Louis for Oct. Break, Sorry about the weather, maybe next 1 Unknown. Call Adonis (6400) Thursday. wanted: Ride to North Chicago suburbs. I share driving and expenses. Call Nick 1 Wednesday. 9-11 p.m. for details.
I 
4631 
I Room for rent to female. Ironwood at I Thursday afternoon. Call J.B. 1161. I · 1 ~: I Bivouacing to Burma over break. 111 Bulla. 287-2823. Please leave your I Needed: two GA tickets to the Tennessee 1 interested, contact V. Thant Jr. 3748. 1I number. I Need a ride from Iowa City to NO on Oct. I game--name your price! Call Mark I It isn't Eric Thompson's birthday. Call I A plague on pressure, a whammy on I 29--Will share driving and expenses. Call I 234-2391 1 him 1194 and don't wish him one. worry. Join Humorist Ananymous.
I Self Storage-100 sq. ft. & up. Special J r 7753 · c o 1 1 I group student rates. 3001 US 31-Niles I u le · I Need Miami GA tickets. Call Mike at 1 ervo ue I Humorist Anonymous refutes speculation I 684-4880, 684-2895. I Need riders to Evansville, Ind. Oct 20. 7838. I Jean Kyle: ~~~(e0 ~~tB:~u~~~!s !ti~~\ ~~~v~orM~~ri.l 
LOST&FOUND Ca11Kathy6784. •I 21!!! Areyoupastdefilement? AreyoJ. I butourinvestigationiscontinuing. I I I need two GA tickets to Miami. Call I too hot for John to handle now? Happ;
I 
Cocktail Waitress-need several girls I 277-1494. birthday to SMC's own Assertive Woman 1 Rob Powers was 19 years old last week.•I Found: Money on campus last week-will I willing to work football weekends and 1or I I (Just ask Bernie, John, Charlie, etc...) If I Call Robby and wish him a Happy turn over if day (time), place and amount 2 I hts d t b 21 Apply In N d2M' . GAt" k t C II L' 7484 th" . I t S . B b h Birthday. 8532. I
n g a wee -mus a . ee 1am1 1c e s. a 1z: . I you see 1s g1r a emor ar, uy er a Regards from Florida! 
are identified. Call Badilla at 288-5708 ft 6 PM t th OAR HOUSE be tw f 1 H

I I parson a ar a a 1 er..or o...or our...or more. appy I I after 5 p.m. 1 231 Dixie Way North [US 311n Roseland] Need two GA Miami tickets. Call I 21st from your dear, devoted, devious Desperately need 3 elephants and one 272-7818. I Brendan 272-7674. roomies! I used Dodge Jeep for African safari over I ost: Love, Break. Call A. Schweitzer 3748. 
1
1) An Opal Ring. II Need 4 GA tix for Tenn. Will pay$$. I I'll trade Big !Money for up to 7 GA's for 1I Higgs and D.O. I Looking for Fun? Humorist Anonymous I 2) A Nardin High School Ring. Tom 8406. 1 Tennessee. Call Bill 8604 NOW. I is sponsoring Bicycle Excursion to Tierra I 3) Gold Ring with red, blue & pink 1 I John Pauli: eel Fuego. Exceptional thighs and stones. Call 8144. Need 2 GA Miami tix. Call Bob 6939. I Wanted: two GA tickets for Miami game. Here's your first personal-was it worth it? I implacable determination a must. Flaw-. Call 2254. I Mary Anne less body a plus-Call Jim Dorgan (1615) Found: Contact lens in case found I Need ride to Pittsburgh. Can leave I 1 or ~donis (6400) 9-11p.m. Thursday. I 
I 

evenmg.
I between Huddle & Music Bldg. Turned I Thursday or Friday. Call Kevin 4215. Need many GA Miami tickets. Bills. P.S. You don't look like a lovesick -----------­into Observer office. Contact Mrs. I I 289-2046 or 232-D550. I puppy-but I wish you did. Hey Chicago-NO People! Go to Mother's I
I
1 Poysovich to claim. BIG BUCKS for 2GA Miami tix! Call Bill 1 I (on Division West of State Street) on I at 1763. Neededr: 5 t.ickets for Miami. Call Dan I Badin breakfast crew, here's for straw-. Wbreedak··a~cdt.p2a5rtyaft;~r~y~m. Break up your I
I
Lost: a gold schaeffer pen with a flower 850 0 1775 berry pancakes and REAL whip cream,I design and an inscription. If found please I Need 3 GA tickets for Miami. Call I 1 kidnapped girls in birthday suits, and 1 Mike L: I 
I 
call Cam, 8905. I 212-5129. Please help me get 2 to 4 GA tickets for wild and crazy times--Thanks 1 Thank you so much for ordering the I Miami. Call (283) 1044. Thank you. I Jan I Homecoming mum for me. Even if they I Lost: 14-K Gold serpentine chain 1 1am in need of 4 GA Miami tickets. Call I I P.S. Glad I wore my clothes to bed did fail to deliver it! After all, it's the bracelet. Call 8803 Christine. Phil at 1479. I $ Need Miami tickets $ Call John I thought that counts. Do have a nicelI 1 272-9354. I Ettie, break, and take care. I 
Lost: Women's Timex watch Thurs night I Need GA tickets Miami game. Call Ruth I Clark, Barney B., Dadie and I hope your 1 ATTENTION ND-SMC COMMUNITY 1I between LaFortune and ACC gate 10. 7136 afternoons, 272-3513 evenings. I Desperately need Tennessee tickets. 1 18th Birthday is fantastic and bizarre The Annual St. Nick's Bazaar is less than Gold with brown face. Call Sarah 6865. I Please call 4411 or 5651. SOL I People are needed to I 
I 
11 
I 
two months away! Please Help!! Desparate for ride to 1 I Are you a closet satirist? A repressed I sponsor booths. If interested call Betz at I Lost: Gold 1976 Cave High School Ring. 1 Connecticut or nearby vicinity. Call I Needed: 1 or 2 GA Miami ticket. Call I pre-med with a pen chant for bathroom 4-1-5148. Blue Sapphire stone. Gold inlaid C.S. on 288-9049. Will share driving etc... 4-1-4556. graffitti? Or just an ordinary, raunchy I _W_A_N_T_T_O_L_E_A_R_N_T_O_B_O__X_?_E_N-JO-Y-AN I I stone. Name on inside of band. Call I I I get down mother? Humorists Anony-BOXING ROOM IN I
EXCITING SPORT.
· c 11 mous is the club for you. Our motto: I 
I 
1864. I Needed: 2or 4GA tickets to Miami. a Wanted to buy: 2 second-hand copy of I "War on Seriousness". 11 your beef is ACC MON-FRI-3:30-5:30 BRING A Greg 232-0550. 1 the LSAT preparation book. Call Sherry LSATS, acne, pompous philistines or I FRIEND I Loat: SMC ring "78 LAS." reward 1 7962. I impotent intellectuals, call 3748 for I 283-8033. Desperately need ride for two from I details. Ask for Lenny Bruce. I Hair cut $5, Style cut:Air dry $7 at I Boston to No On Oct. 28 or 29. Will share I Desperately need one or two Notre Dame I Stacy's. 3421 Mishawaka Avenue, South
Band. Phone 289-8822, ask for Stacy. 
I 
I 
1 just sobered up from the Hurricane I driving and expenses. Call 2126. season basketball tix. Call 4-1-4487. CJ: 1I Party and realized that I lost my Berwick I 1 1 l beg your forgiveness. Happy Belated. I Coach Petro and VArsity Tennis Team: High School jacket. This navy blue jacket I ATTENTION!! Wanted: 2 Miami GA tickets. Bath JJ Congratulations State Champs! I I 
with white leather sleeves from my HS Need 4 GA tix for Tenn. game. Any 1 4-1-5142. I (At least they printed this one) I Roberta Alma Mater serves as my security 1 price-call 3848 after 10:30. I I Typist get no respect Sean Mulhall, I blanket. If in the confusion of that night 1 H 21 t BIRTHDAYI Remember us? 1I you ended up with my jacket, please help I Want to go west on 80 for break? I could I Wanted: 4 GA or 2 Student and 2 GA 1 GENTLEMEN* I HAVE JUST BEGUN appy s · · a shivering, insecure Freshman and call I use some riders to Iowa, Nebraska or tickets for Tennessee. Call Jim 1752 after TO FIGHT. YOUR DESTRUCTION IS 1 Your roommates, 1 
I 
ASSURED. IN OTHER WORDS: SIE T p 1 J B b M'k 
I 
I Ed at 8642. Wyoming. Call Tim 1105. I 12 p.m. SIND TOT. REMEMBER WHAT I om, au, erry, o , J el STALILN SAID ABOUT TREATIES: 
I 
I Reward: for yellow folder and notebook I Need ride to Philadelphia Oct. break. I PERSONALS THEY ARE LIKE PIE CRUSTS* THEY I 1}:1omo, II taken from 10th floor library (...the test is I Will share expenses. Call Ann 289-1572. 1 ~~EUL~E:ENJ0 J~E ~~J~g~~~·RE~~ Congradulatlons on your victory over 11. over( Please call 6890 or return It to I 1 EVEN Short people can have fun. For DER. DON'T GET MAD* GET EVEN. 1 Sounds like Calif. may see you again thisI
1 1
library If you have a heart. Need ride to Milwaukee for break. Calli information and/or drugs, call Bo-Bo eidt I AND WHEN 1HAVE TO GET EVEN* 1 summer. Tom, 1530. 1398. I GET MAD. FUSS! I Yourtan~til 
I 
I Lost: Pair of glasses: brown plastic In I ~ 1 1 soft black case. If found call Tim 1 Ya'll Help! Need ride to Memphis for!l Today is Liz's birthday! Call her and I Potsie Haws: I know your father was a Water Bucket Bombe1s: 232-0550. break. Call 7821. wish her a happy birthday. Birthday good football player, but when the lady 1 We're patiently awaiting your revenge.• 
k. b lntm tn only 4 1 5725 1 dropped her baby from the burning Just because the .girl from across the
I I lsses Yappo e · --· buildlna~, why did he run 10 yards and
Need two tickets {GA) for Miami game. I Loofa p00 Bert "Z" 1 bathroom told you you were beautiful•• 
I 
I 
FOR SALE 1 ' ' ' 1 spike it. you can't expect us to wait forever! If Call Joe 1101. I 1 your're too preoccupied with dancingl For Sale: 71' VW Convertible, yellow, I I The Alternative Cocktail Hour. Steak & I FRAK: "dirty" measuring working companions I 
$900 256-0648 ft 6 lnaad5GAMiamiUckats[notnacessarll AlapresantsMichalob .75,Aie.75, Wine I really like the moustache. It looks I hands, and trekking off to Senior Bar,l' a er · I y all together]. Call John at 1991. I .50. All cocktails 2for 1. Coma visit our 1 great! Actually,l really haven't sean ~u we'll have to strike first. We "drew" on -Pub! 11:3&-Mon-Frl before you've said "hi" to me late y. I our "will (ie)" to emerge-victorious fori 
I 
I 
Casperson's Book Shop open Wed., Sat., I I Anyway, I'm glad to sea you back baing this personal "and (y)" we "shant" giveSun. 9-7. 50,000 used books. A general Wanted: 2 or 4 GA tickets for any Homl yourself around me. Taka care. I up until we do! I shop. 1303 Buchanan Road, Niles, 1 football game. Call Mike 7838. Happy 18th Birthday Francis Peter I Who elsa? The Has-Beens 683-2888. Tighe. My baby brother lsn't so little P.S. Have a great braaakl I Need two GA tickets to TaniiBSSIIB. Cal anymore! I Hey Muncy: II I . . I Wanna play doctor? I
Tony 6718. Love, Kathie Happy 19 Janie! I'll never forget the first How's your leg?
I 
Triumph TR-7 1976 1/2, factory AM-FM I I time I saw you Always willing to be your crutch. cassette stereo, air. $3,450. 233-8855.. -----. Love I I Need 10 Miami GA tickets. Call J4 Congratulations K.T. on your promotion. I DAD Moynihan, Male, and McCormick,I Attn. participants In How's Your Luck I 8588. Still late nights but now you'll be paid! I The jumping jacks in front of LeMt ~~~ ed 1 1 Margie I "Sisters, sister there were never such were darling and gay. we really hall •I Lake Race: If you are Interest n Need riders to Louisville for Oct. break. devoted sisters" Happy Birthday Janie I restrain ourselves from kid":fllng you.•
buying a T-Shlrt, see John Mandlco-R. I 11be 1323 Grace on Thurs. (9-11 P.M.). $4.00 Leaving Sat. noon after GRE Exam. Ca This Is the final rhyme for Lou from none·· . Katie: The next time the ransom w your 
I 
payable In advance. I Sue 6$71. other you know who • Thanks for dol11g su'ch a great /ob Sunday Ilips. Your lovable clepto's! !I 
From Mike and Brian I nlte. You're tops In my book. 
12 Beach Boys tickets for sale. Froot stage 1 · We'll keep on tryin' I Scoop Howard Drunkards· I Netld ride to Philadelphia Oct. break. Sowatcllout-we'reafteryou.. Here's one to dream about-"Ma-cllo, 
I padded. Will sell cheap. Call John at I Please call Susan 4-1-4509. 'I steve Odland loves parletalsl. Ma-cho, Ma-cllo Man." , 1 ,.._1991.________________ Miss Margie, 1 The Rich BSjj
--·--lllllli-­
• I . I I ···~J:!u:i.:.-------·· 
.:tl 

'Bronx Bombers' win 22nd title, 7-2 
LOS ANGELES [AP] -Slap-straight . year in the playoffs to Star starter Willie Randolph. qualify for the Series. The 23-year-old infielder, who
hitters Bucky Dent and Brian Doyle combined for six hits and five runs 
This Series started in reverse for spent most of the season in the minors, responded with the firstbatted in, and Reggie Jackson New York. The Yankees dropped Games 1 and 2 in California last extra-base hit of his major league added a monstrous homer as the weekend and, playing with the career -doubling over the head of
New York Yankees defeated the Los Angeles Dodgers 7-2 Tuesday knowledge that only five teams in left fielder Dusty Baker on a 1-2 night to claim their 22nd World ·Serieshistroy have come back from pitch. Championship. that kind of deficit, they turned the The Yankees led 3-2 going into the sixth when Doyle again became 
Crafty veteran Catfish Hunter classic upsjde-down. 
The Dodgers, stung by three prominent, drilling his third hit ofscattered six base hits through straight losses in New York, had the game, scoring Piniella, thenseven innings to pick up the vowed they would recover at home. took second on the play at thevictory. Yankees bullpen ace Rich And, very briefly, it looked like plate. It was the fifth hit in a rowGossage replaced Hunter after Joe 
they might. for the young infielder.
Ferguson's leadoff double in the Davey Lopes, heroic in defeat, Right-hander Bob Welch reliev­eighth and held the Dodgers in opened the game by sending ed Sutton, and Dent greeted himcheck on one hit the rest of the way. 
Hunter's third pitch into the left­with a soft single to center for his
The Yankees captured their 
field bleachers, giving Los Angeles third hit of the game, his fifthsecond consecutive World Series a quick lead as the Dodger Stadium straight in the Series, and anotherafter losing the first two games crowd of 55,985 roared its apprecia­run batted in. 
in Los Angeles. They thus became 
tion. That made it 5-2, and in the
the first team in World Series history to win the classic in six It was Lopes' third homer of the seventh, the Yankees added some 
Series and marked only the 13th insurance on the strength of one ofgames after losing the opening 
two. time in World Series history that a Jackson's more titanic home runs. The victory in the 75th anniver­
batter has opened the game for his Roy White opened with a walk and after Thurman Munson strucksary World Series capped one of team with a home run. 
the greatest comeback seasons in But the lead lasted only until the out, Jackson faced the 21-year-old baseball history. Yankees came to a bat in the second rookie who had struck him out so inning. With one out, Graig dramatically to end the second
The Yankees had to come from 
Game 6: Yankees-7, Dodgers-2 
Los Angeles ab r h bl New York ab r h bl Lopes 2b 4122 
Rivers cf 4000 Blair
Russel ss 3 0 1 0 cf 1000 Smith rf 4000 White If 4110 
Garvey 1b 4000 Thomson If 0000 Munson c 5010
Cey 3b 4010 Jackson
Baker 1f 3000 db 5 1 1 2 
Monday cf 3000 Plnlella rf 4110 Ferguson c 3120 Johnston rf 0000 
Nettles 3b 4 11 0Davalllo db 2010 
Spencer 1b 3 1 0 0 total 30 2 7 2 Doyle 2b 4232 Dent ss 4033
1P H R R BB SO Sutton L, 0-2 5 2-3 8 5 5 1 6 total 387117 Welch 1 1-3 2 2 2 1 2 
Rau 
2 10003 Hunter W, 1-1 7 62213 Gossage 2 10002 
LOB-New York 6, Los Angeles 3. E-Ferguson. DP-New York 2. 
2B-Ferguson 2, Doyle. HR-Lopes 3, Jackson 2. SB-Lopes. S-Daval­illo. WP-Sutton. New York 0 3 0 0 0 2 200-7 LosAngeles 101000 000-2 
T-2:34. A-55,985. 
game of the Series-the last one the ..----------------+----------..1
Nettles -whose spectacular defen­14 games behind on July 19 to 
sive play in Game 3 began the New Dodgers won. 360 feet, and Jackson's homer made 'him No. 6 on the all-time list 
catch Boston in the American League's East Division. They won York comeback-stroked a single. With the fans howling at the sailed at least 100 beyond that. behink Mickey Mantle, Babe Ruth, a division playoff -only the second Jim Spencer walked, and that Yankees' designated hitter, The blow was so stunning that it Yogi .·Berra, Duke Snider and Lou 
brought up Doyle, the rookie Jackson got even. He tagged the silenced the crowd and, after Geht;ig.
in AL history -when Dent and Jackson belted home runs in secQnd baseman pressed into play­second pitch on a high arch toward circling the bases, Jackson tipped off and World Series action be­the Yankees bullpen in right field. his hat as he reached the New York That made it 7-2, the eventualFenway Park. Then they elimin· 
ated Kansas f'itv for the third cause of hamstring injury to All-The fence in that sector is marked dugout. His ninth career home run final score. 
Saint Mary's tennis squad
The Bucky and Brian Show 
dumps Irish netters 5-4 .
' ' 
LOS ANGELES [API • On a team 
hat has assembled some of base­fball's most awesome sluggers, it twas a pair of slap hitters -Bucky Dent and Brian Doyle -who supplied the big hits that propelled 
he New York Yankees to a 7-2 victory over Los Angeles and their 22nd World Championship Tues­day night. 
With Reggie Jackson adding a monstrous home run to punctuate )'!ew York's six-game World Series conquest of the Dodgers, the Yankees destroyed Los Angeles with two popguns and a cannon. 
Dent, the Series' Most Valuable Player, and Doyle, the rookie stand-in who spent much of the season in the minors, occupied the last two places in the Yankees batting order. 
But they both looked like cleanup hitters to the Dodgers, combining for six hits and five runs batted in. 
"I like to hit ninth," said Dent. "Where else am I gonna hit on this team?" 
Actually, Dent claims living at the bottom of the batting order makes his job at the plate easier. 
"By the time they get to the eighth and ninth places in this batting order, they go 'whew' and relax a little bit," said the Yankees shortstop. "It's a lot easier to hit down there. I really believe that." 
Dent was an integral ingredient in the· Yankees' comback this season -one of the most remark­able recoverjes in baseball history. Doyle, on the ·other hand, was on a New York-to-Tacoma shuttle for most of the year and had only ro hits in 52 scattered at-bats with the Yankees when he was thrust into the middle of the infield in October after an injury to second baseman Willie Randolph. 
He responded with a remarkable playoff and even better World Series, supplying some standout defense and showing a lively bat. 
Asked if he felt any pressure because of the situation he was stepping into, Doyle laughed. 
bothered by the cheering. Saint Mary's Athletic Director, Kathleen Cordes, commented, "Because of the cold weather, both teams
SMC volleyball team wins agreed that the best solution would be to share the Athletic Facility 
by Beth Hoffman Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's volleyball team continued its winning ways by defeating Notre Dame for the fourth straight time this season. The Belles defeated Notre Dame in · two out of three games to take the match, held at the Angela Athletic Facility on Monday. 
In game number one SMC built up its biggest lead of the game, 8-3. Notre Dame slowly tore down the Belles' edge and eventually tied up the game 12-12. The Belles joined forces to hold the ND scoring attack and pulled out the game, 15-12. 
The second game of the match saw the teams battle evenly with exchanges of points as the score was tied at six all. Notre Dame surged ahead to upset the Belles, 7-15. 
In the decisive game of the match, Notre Dame oppened ready fro revenge, as they came out chanting "Beat those Belles." SMC began the game by tallying up three straight points. ND managed to even. up the score at· 3-3, befcm: Saint Mary's went on a. 
scoring rampage to be victorious over the Irish, 15-10. Amy Terry lead the attack of the Belles with her excellent spiking in the final game. 
Tuesday, the Belles travedled to Bethel where they fell to Manches­ter in the first match of a tri-meet. 
Manchester crumbled Saint Mary's 13-8 lead in the first game to upset the Belles, 15-13. The SMC team then felt its fourth loss of the "Not me," he said. "The last time I felt pressure this game was when 
cheering a negative factor
I was five years old and my father 
put me in center field. That was pressure.'' 
Second base was easy compared to that. And playing alongside Dent. Doyle came through brilli­antly. 
"We play together well," said 
Dent. 
The Dodgers noticed. 
Dent and Doyle kept coming up with clutch hits in Game 6 and helped build a 5-2 lead for Catfish Hunter. The Jackson jolted his second tape measure home of the Series, deep into the Yankees bullpen in right field. 
Hunter lasted until the eighth inning, when he surrendered a leadoff double to Joe Ferguson. Then Yankees ace Rich Gossage came out of the bullpen and hurled tow inning of one-hit relief to nail down the victory and the World Championship that the slap hitters had constructed. 
by John Calcutt Executive Editor 
Only a day after the Saint Mary's and Notre Dame women's tennis teams had participated in the Indiana State Tournament in Indianapolis, the squads met head on in a dual match at the Angela Athletic Facility on Monday night. And although Notre Dame had come home with the championship trophy this weekend, the Belles evened the score on Monday as they handed the Irish a 5-4 loss. 
The match, which had originally been scheduled outdoors, was moved inside because of inclement weather. Unfortunately for both teams, though, a previously sched­uled volleyball match was contest­ed along with the tennis, and several players appeared to be 
tcredt!s muc~ of the succe~s to the 
singles matches. In the No. 2 spot, Ann Daniels defeated Paddy Mullen in the closest match of the evening, ll-9. Maureen O'Brien and Karen Smith followed with victories for the Belles as they defeated their opponents Jean Barton and Peggy Walsh by the scores of 10-2 and 10-5, respec­tively. 
The Irish countered in the fifthe and sixth matches as Mary Legeay and Stacey Obremskey won by the identical score of 10-6 over Saint Mary's Terri Bracken and Carmel Maenza. 
The Belles captured the No. 1 and 3 doubles matches to break the 3-3 deadlock after tbe singles matches and to claim the team victory. 
Schuster and Daniels won in the first match for Saint Mary's as they defeated Barton and Stephan, 10-6. The Irish rallied with a victory in the No. 2 spot by Walsh/Legeay over Smith/O'Brien, 10-8. Bracken and Lindsay Riehl for Saint Mary's took t~e last match of the day as they topped Notre Dame's Cronin sisters; 10-6. 
Notre Dame will conclude their fall season this weekend as they host t~e Irish Invita,tional Tourna­ment. ,For Saint Mary's Monday's match completed a very successful seasonias they finished 10-1 for the fall. I 
Saint Mary's topped their host team of Bethel in the second match of the meet in two straight game wins. Led by the great blocking of Terri Walters and strong saves by Mary King the Belles won, 15-10 and 15-9. 
SMC's Coach ~il~a Aitches~n expresse~ great prtde tn her team s outs~andmg record of 15-4. She with the volleyball teams." 
In the No. 1 singles match, it appeared that Notre Dame would continue its winning ways of the weekend as Mary Shukis had little trouble in handling Cindy Schuster, 10-2. 
Saint Mary's bounced back by taking the second, third, and fourth 
. season as it lost the second and earn s_b_andmg together wtth effort final game to Manchester, 15-8. and spmt. The next Notre Dame.' legend? 
Women's CC team romps See story on Page 10 
The Notre Dame Women's 
Cross-Country Team placed well 
ahead of their competition last 
Saturday, as they romped over 
Loyola College and Saint Mary's, 
21-41-66 respectively. 
Loyola's Shack took top honors with a 19:45 time. Following her, however, was a host of Irish thinclads, as Ann Hesburgh, Eunie Sullivan, Melanie Murray and Helen Weber took the next four spots to dominate the top ten. Liz Berry polled seventh for Notre Dame. 
Maureen Gildea crossed first for 
Saint Mary's, finishing eighth 
under cold and rainy conditions. 
Hesburgh, who finished in the 
*Observer
top spot for the Irish Saturday, commented on the upcoming meet against Hillsdale College to be held today in Michigan. 
"We'll all be going to the meet with the intention of doing our best,'' commented Hesburgh, 
~.Sports''And whatever the results are, it will be a good ending to an enjoyable season." 
-
