--------~----~--~-------~-, --··~-­
'Peace .formula' eludes summit 
•'How long the final stages will The statement claimed continuing commit itself to a dectSton at the
CAMP DAVID, Md. [AP] • A week. peace formula eluded leaders at the One of the key issues on the table
last is a matter of some conjecture, progress without providing speci­end of five years--but not promise Powell said, speaking for all three fics and said "the intense efforts of any particul~ course of action in
Mideast summit yesterday and is how the documen~ will deal with 
governments at Camp David. the past few days are continuing." advance.
prospects for an early windup the future of the 1.1 million 
•'The final stage could be the Responding to questions, Powell Powell said he had been author­
seemed to fade. Palestinian Arabs now living under 
longest stage." insisted that the summit was not ized to "deny emphatically" a
Spokesman Jody Powell said Israeli military control on the West 
At the same time, diplomatic "at a stalemate." published report that Begin had
"more progress and more flexibil­Bank of the Jordan River and in the 
sources who said earlier in the day Carter, an early riser, walked. for agreed in principle at Camp David
ity are essential... if President Gaza district of the Sinai desert. 
Carter's unprecedented conference that the summit appeared headed an hour during the morning with to an Israeli withdrawal from the with Egyptian President Anwar toward a windup by today were President Sadat along the tree­Before the summit, Israel indi­West Bank. Sadat and Israeli Prime Minister edging away from their forecast. lined paths of this presidential cated its willingness to take up the 
Earlier, Israeli officials whoMenachem Begin is to succeed. The official said Powell was trying retreat. Late Wednesday night, question after a five-year perio4 of barred the use of their namesAt a briefing only 24 hours after to curb optimistic news reports Carter met with Begin in the prime civil self-rule proposed by Begin denied as "pure, unadulterated,he had declared the summit to be in indicating an early end for the minister's lodge for 25 minutes. last December but rejected by undiluted rubbish" and "com­Sadat as inadequate.
its final stages, Powell, the White summit. 
. Neither session was announced in pletely without foundation" similar
House press secretary, told repor­Powell's call for more flexibility advance. Carter has not brought . A compromise was understood to reports that Begin had committed ters • • a framework for reaching came in a formal statement ap­Begin and Sadat together in one be under discussion. Israel would Israel to withdrawal. peace'' was still beyond grasp. 
proved by all three delegations. 




server 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's
Vol. XIII, No. 14 Friday, Sept_ember 15, 1171 
Survey reports: 
ND students most concerned with rights 
by Diane Wilson while improvement of Lafortune of presidents expressed the con­members of an HPC ad hoc Delgrande stated that "the main News Editor Student Center registered two. cern that something should be done committee on how to use thesurvey thrust of the meeting was to pinTwo suggestions offered by single immediately with the survey re­results. The council suggested that down exactly how the students feel 
halls were a move toward a SO­sults. the ad hoc committee should act 
about different issues. We wanted 

The Hall Presidents Council (HPC) held a short meeting last night to report the results of a survey taken Wednesday night to gauge student sentiment on a variety of campus issues. 
Chuck Delgrande, chairman of the HPC. said the results of the survev showed that Notre Dame students are most concerned with student rights. All 21 of the halls reprc.~cnted la~t night reported that student rights was the issue which their hall residents felt most strongly ahout. 
The concept of in loco parentis tied with the issue of alcohol for !>Ccond. with twelve of the dorms reportinr the importance of these concerns. Overcrowding was third with eleven votes while social space was fourth, receiving nine. Social activities was next with eight votes 
by Diane Wilson News Editor 

Calling for the abolishment and replacement of the University~s "paternalistic philosophy of In loco parentis." the Hall Presidents Council ad hoc committee releasM a statement last night defining their position on student rights. 
The statement identified the five most important issues tallied in a recent student poll as student rights, In loco parentis, alcohol regulations, overcrowding, and social space. 
The letter states that Student Government plans to propose to the Board of Trustees in October that the Campus Life coumcil (CLC) be given legislative powers. The two areas of power requested will be legislative power concerning stu­dent affairs and veto power concerning all University regula-
SO male-female ratio and co-ed dorms. In a discussion following the tabulation of the results, a number 
tions. Student Body President Andy· McKenna added that the powers would be retroactive. 
In the statement, the committee termed the ideal student­Univeristy relationship as a "part­nership...achieved by giving students an equal voice in the formulation and execuion of regu­lations.which govern student life." 
The committee was formed last 
week in the aftermath of the alcohol 
directive issued by Dean of Stu­
dents James Roemer. The purpose 
of the statement issued last night 
was to make the student body 
aware of the committee's position 
on student rights. 
''After the alcohol directive was 
issued, the HPC felt a need for 
some form of formal input into 
student affairs," McKenna com­
mented. 
The proposal to give the CLC 
One president said, "Sentiment is extremely high, we must be able to have a say in campus matters. 
The HPC also gave some ideas to 
legislative powers was prompteo by an HPC survey conductd Wed­nesday night. The survey indicated that sutdent wanted a •formal channel of input into University rules and regulations. McKenna added that this input could be found by strengthening the CLC. 
The next step, McKenna continued, is to get student support for the ideas the committee has formulated. ·"The students need to demonstrate enthusiasm for our plans. Input can only be achieved by continued enthusiasm by the students," McKenna stated. 
Members of the ad hoc commit­tee include McKenna; Chuck Del­grand, HPC chairman; Tom Paese, Flanner president; Jose arrero, Pangborn president; Michele Kel­ly, Farley president; jim O'Hare, Grace president; Bill Roche, Stu­dent Union director, and Tony Pace, Obeerver editor-in-chief. 
quickly and hoped that the com­
this input so we could pass it on to 

mittee would have a proposal ready 
the ad hoc committee os they could 

for the first meeting of the Campus 
act \lS quickly as possible."

Life Council (CLC) night. 
..··. < >T!UirewH~ tie ,_ proposal. brougb~ btofortt the. knd of Ttustttes 
iJ>,.Qc·tcibe.r to gin .tli• CLC legislative powers~. The povttn re,
qunted will· be: · · 
1. lealslHiVe power coru:ernlnt 5tudent affairs 2; veto power <:onc:ernin& all UniYersity TOJUhtlollf; 

In the uantiu, the HPC vil~ fo~late plans for a aeettuary
shOli .ot uudent support., 



~---­

------------~----
Frldly, Sept1mb1r 15, 19711
the observer
2 



,_News Briefs----------. 

Terrorist captured 
Mn.AN, Italy • Anti-terror specialists, feeling closer than ever to' cracking the Aldo Moro case, are analyzing documents and other material found in the apartment of a captured fugitive suspected of being the mastermind of,the Red Brigade, police sources said yesterday. Authorities considered the arrest of 30-year old Corrado Alunni a major breakthrough after months of groping by 
• investigatirs trying to track down the Red Brigade terrorists who kidnapped and murdered the former Italian premier last spring. The police sources said experts were digging into "relevant" documents found in Alunni's apartment, looking for clues to the ultimate strategy of the Red Brigades and possible past and future plans for terrorist attacks. 
I:=:====:-:::::==-=::::::::=======::::=:::::::::::::::::::::: National 

Indictment may hurt Ford 
DETROIT -The effect of an Indiana grand jury's criminal indictments against Ford Motor Co. for "recklessly designed" Pinto gas tanks is debatable in terms of corporate reputation, future car sales and legal pressure, industry and legal experts say. Nobody will go to jail under Indiana's recently-revised penal code permitting criminal indictments of a corporation. The maximum penalty is a 535,000 fine, paltry compared to potential multi-million­dollar civil judgements against automakers. But lawyers and industry analysts said any real punishment for Ford, the nation's second-largest automaker, would be the "stigma" of prosecution, or damaged chances in up to SO pending civil suits involving the controversial Pinto. 

Weather 

Partly cloudy through tomorrow. High today mid to upper 70s. Low 
tonight mid to upper 50s. High tomorrow upper 70s. 
~On Campus Today_~ 
friday september 15 
12:15 pm, 
4:45pm 5:15pm 6, 8, 10, 12 pm, 
7pm, 7om, 
7-9 pm, 

7, 9:15, 11:30 pm, film, "catch-11" engr aud. 
8pm, soccer, ind u/purdue at ft. wayne vs nd 
saturday september 16 

9am, tennis, nd/smc with balls tate, elmhurst, taylor, st. francis, dayton, and valpo, regina, angela, and nd courts 
7, 9:15 11:30 pm,film, "julia", engr. aud. $1 
7pm 

india film, "khabi khabi", lib. aud. 
9-12 pm concert, by night flight, sponsored by stanford and le mans halls, quad in front of lemans, in case of rain 
meeting nd chess club, all welcome, basement of 
regina lounge  
9pm  nazz,  grand  opening  featuring  jim  speier  and  
company, basement of Ia fortune  
sunday september 17  
1 pm,  

Iafortune 7, 9:1511:30 pm "julia", engr. aud. $1 7pm lecture, "chance and necessity", by prof. harvey 
bender nd, lib aud. 8pm recital, david clarke isele, organ, sacred heart • church • 
lecture, "reflections on business topics", by dolt: anderson, bd. room, hayes-healy 
field hockey, smc vs. franklin colleg~, madeleva field 
mass and dinner, at the bulla shed, all welcome 
film, "smokey and the bandit," knights of columbus $1 members free 
film, "sound of music", sponsored by the smc social commission, carroll hall at smc, $1 
film, Richard Ill, sponsored by the english dept., .uchitecture aud. free 
reception, by dee shapiro, sponsored by the smc art gallery, at the moreau gallery 



Campus briefs 
Candidates address ND Republicans 
As part of their fall campaign 

efforts, five members of the St. 
Joseph's County Republican ticket 
addressed a meeting of Notre 
Dame College Republicans Wed­
nesday night in LaFortune. 
Candidates included Dan Man­
ion, who is running for State 
Senate, Prosecutor Bill Albright, 
Jerry Perkins, running in the 
Sheriff's race, Ca.wlyn Metzger, in 
the Auditor's race and Rav Milli­
ken. candidate for County Commis­
sioner. 
Each Republican urged students 
to get involved in the political 
process by voting and assisting 
candidates. 
According 1o Bill Kerr, College 
Republican Chairman "The spot-
SG Task Force applications 

Student Government Security Coordinator Phil Johnson is cur­rently taking applications for posi­tions in the SG task force. Interested students should fill out a short application in the Student Government Office on the second floor of LaFortune before Wednes­day. 
*The Observer 
Night Editor: Frank L. Kebe, 

Jr. Asst. Night Editor: Ed Neuert layout Staff: Karen Knoll, Margaret Garvey Editorial layout: Greg Hedges Features layout: Cazzo and your old pal Muley Sports layout: Mark Ronsini Typists: Tricia (I wish I knew who you were) Meehan, Mary Cambell, Bill (really) Swift, Mary McCauley 
"'E.M.T.: L.D. and me Day Editor: Maribeth Moran Copy Readers: Phil Cackley, Mark Rust Ad layout: Chris Slatt Photographer: Bob Gill 
Sorry everybody, this week it was my fault!!!! 
The Observer Is publlshecl Mon­d•v through Frldlly except durtng ex.m •nd vacation periods. Tl)e Observer Is published by the students of Notr. Dllme •nd S.lnt M•rv•s College. Subscriptionsm•v be purdlllaed for uo per ve•r (510 per semester) tram The Observer, P.O. -BoK Q, Notre D•me, lndl•n• 46556. Second cl•as post..e paid, Notre Dame, lndl•n•, 46556. 
The Observer 11 • member of the AIIOcllltH Prell. All repro­duction rtghtl •re reserved. 

Her_,Ever_ybod_y--IT'S NEW!!! 
~ 'llHE RAMROD ~ 
*Dance floor *Weekends: Live Rock and 
•Pinball Pooltable ICountry Western Music 
*Saturday Jam Sessions· •All drinks $1.00 come show your talent *NO COVER CHARGE
*Pitchers onl.y$1.50 with this AD 
* 
so hurr_y to: 

THE RAMROD 511 S. Michi~an St. (Downtown) 

289-4709 
must be 21 :rears 

light was  stolen  by  Manion  who  
arrived slightly  out  of breath and  
wearing  a  bright  Kelly  green  

sweatsuit. He is both literally and figuratively running for the State Senate." 
Kerr said that the College Re­publicans would have a "dynamic program to offer students interes­ted in learning more about the political process" and encouraged students to get involved in the club's activities. Students interes­ted in College Republicans can find our more by contacting Kerr at 288-9806 
· Keenan Cellar to open Saturday 
The Keenan Cellar opens for its second season tomorrow at 10 pm. The Cellar, located in the basement of Keenan Hall, features a wide variety of food and drink. plus musical entertainment. provided by students and faculty. 
·Opening night festivities will be hosted by Rich Pugliese, a member of the 1978 Keenan Revue case and director of The Cellar. 
The Cellar opened last April !lS an alternative night spot on cam­pus. According to Pugliese, it was conceived as a ''nice place to listen to good music, meet poeple or take a date." 
Hc:~rs for The Cellar are from ~10 pm to 2 am on Friday's ahd Saturday's. Anyone interested in performing should call Pugliese at 3402. 
255·6500 
FOR APPOINTMENT 

lttn~ ben 
COMPLETE HAIR STYLING FOR MEN AND WOMEN 
703 LWW MISHAWAKA. INDIANA 46544 

2-Day Special at Louies Tonight and Saturday night from 7·12 $1(one dollar) OFF with every pitcher when you order one of LOUIE'S great pizzas!! 
Young Democrats to hold meeting 

The Notre Dame Saint Mary's Young Democrats will hold an Organizational meeting in Room 2-D of LaFortune at 7:30 pm on Tuesday. Election of officers will be held. Plans for student involve­ment in the fall campaign and the possibili.ties of bringing speakers to campus will be discussed. 
All candidates for the offices of President, Vice-President, Secre­tary and Trea~urer must call Ray Watson at 289-865 7 before Monday night to submit their naes names for nomination. 
Clark Terry featured at concert 

Qlark Terry, internationally renowned jazz trumpet (and flugel­horn) virtuoso, will inaugurate the Elkhart Symphony Society's Jist season. This Celebrity Champagne Pops Concert will be at the Elkhart Holidome tonight beginning at 8:15 pm. Also on hand will be the Elkhart Symphony Orchestra and Dance Band performing arrange­ments of broadway hits, musicals, movies, and great dance tunes. This season's opening event is sponsored by Skylines Corporation. 



Ten persons die in Arkansas floods 

UTILE ROCK, AR [AP] -With at least ten people known dead from torrential rains in central Arkansas, searchers got the break in the weather they were hoping for yesterday so inaccesible areas could be exolored. 
"We're definintelv out of the woods, at least at the moment," said Robert McKenchnie, a wea­ther service forecaster. 
Rescue workers continued the search for bodies. "We hope we don't find any more bodies, but 
we're afraid we'll find a few more," said Little Rock Police Lt. 
by Rob Powers 

Despite rumours among Notre Dame alumni and faculty that the University of Michigan had reneged on its contract and received a disproportionate share of the tickets to next Saturday's Notre Dame -Michigan football game, an extra 1,500 general admission tickets were made avail­able to Notre Dame alumni during advance ticket sales. 
Michael Busick, ticket manager, explained yesterday that according to the original contract signed in 1969, Michigan had the option of purchasing 8.5 percent of the stadium seating, equaling approxi­mately 5,020 tickets. 
Last spring, ND Director of Athletics Edward Krause received a letter from Michigan's Athletic 


Haunted Bookshop 
'\<(.?>b.~ s2osl us 31 North 4>o.f . S~, So. Bend , Indiana 46637 lo~e~;r ~, Phone (219) 277-1067 <(,~ Park Free Next Door at Karl Weis Body Shop Welcome to the Haunted Bookshop. r 
We are now open, so come browse through our 10,000 volumes. Free search service for new, used and out-of-print books. HThis shop is haunted by the gh~ts of all great literature... 
malnutrition of the r~ading faculty is a serious thing" 
~=~~========~========~C.Mo~y 
Tues.-Sat. 10am-9pm 

Sunday 12pm-5pm =::=::=::==:==:==:==:==:==:==:==:==:==:==:==1( 
Closed on Mondays 

Director Don Canham requesting a new sales arrangement to accomo­date the growing demand \ for Michigan tickets, Busick said. 
An arrangement was made whereby only 6,000 tickets will be made available to Notre Dame alumni for next year's game at Michigan, instead of the 8,600 allotted in the original contract, Busic~ _explained:• In com pen: 
sation, 1,500 tickets from Michigan's allottment were given to Notre Dame, leaving Michigan with a .total of 3,500 tickets for next Saturday's game. 
Busick said that he feels the arrangement is fair, since it is a proportional cutback for both schools. Michigan's stadium holds nearly 101,000 spectators, com­pared with the 59,000 seat capacity of the Notre Dame stadium. Under Ed Ethridge. Eight persons died 1n flooding in 
The Arkansas National Guard southwest Little Rock, and two died began sending troops home yester· in Benton. day as the floodwaters receded. . Gov. David Pryor has asked 
The floodwaters rushed to low~ President Carter to declare the area 
lying areas after a storm dumptt a disaster area, which would make 
between 6 and 12 inches on Littlt 
it eligible for federal assistance.__: Rock and nei~hborin~ Benton. 
Flood damage was estimated at over $11 million in the Little Rock area along. 
About 1000 Little Rock residents 
"Stanford lake" was established yesterday during the torrential downpour that inundated the campus. Swimming was determined to .be hazardous. [Photo by Bob Gill] 
For Michig_an game 
ND alums receive 1500 more tix 
Young concertcoming 
There will be a lottery Sunday at 6 pm. for tickets to the Oct. 12 Neil Young concert. The lottery, which will be held in the main lobby of LaFortune, will assign numbers for positions in line when tickets go on sale at the ·Student Union ticket office on Monday at 9 am 
The ACC will also be selling tickets to the concert. Lines begin forming Sunday at 6 pm for the 9 am opening of the AC~ ticket office on Monday. 
Each student participating in the 
~--------------------------------------­
JUNIOR CLASS MICHIGAN PICNIC THIS FRIDAY 
Tix, info available from hall reps. Also maps, bus info, tix will be 
the new arrangement, each school 
available in dining halls thurs. 
receives approximately 5.9 percent of the seats in the opponel)t's 
$3.00

stadium. 
Alumni interest in the game was exceptionally high, according to Busick. More than 6,000 of the 
Band, Food, 'Beverages'
14,800 alumni who applied for tickets through the advance sale 



I. --· 
did not receive them. Sales were conducted by lottery, and only alumni who contributed $25 or more to the Annual Fund were eligible. 
For the Pittsburgh game, nearly one-third of the alumni were turned down; for the Purdue game, one­fourth; for the Missouri game, one-fifth; for the Tennessee game,­one-tenth; and for the Miami game, less than one percent since Miami only purchased 3,000 of the 5,000 tickets available to them, Busick stated. 
---------------------------------­.a SUNDAY MASSES AT SACllED HEART CIIUKCB cam~ miniStry 5:15 p.m. Saturday Rev. Robert Griffin, C.S.C. 9:15a.m. Sunday Rev. John Van Wolvlear, C.S.C. 10:30 a.m. Rev. Oliver F. Williams, C.S.C. 12:15 p.m. ~ev. William Toohey, C.S.C. 7:15 p.m. Vespers Rev. Oliver Williams, C.S.C.  
sophomoRe class ptcntc In 01l€S, ffiiChlc,arlSatuRbav 4:0()-? au the ~ooo, "Ref:Reshments" ano munchies you caR€ eat ~oR $3.00 contact youR hall REP ~oR tiCkets OR c;€t than In th€ 0JnJn(j hall tRanspoRtation availaBle­BUS€S le.avln(j liBRaRY CIRCl€ on th€ hOUR.  


were forced to flee their homes when floodwaters roared down 'lwollen creeks, overturning cars and washing away some houses early Wednesday. By nightfall, the worst of the flooding was over, but persons living near the Arkansas River in east Little Rock were evacuated as tributaries began rising. 
lottery must nave h"hisJWn ID and 
there will be a purchase limit of ten 
tickets per person. Measures will 
be taken to ensure that each 
student in the lottery receives only 
one number. 
Prices are $8.50 for floor and 
arena seats, $7.50 for bleacher 
seats. Checb. should be made out 
to "University of Notre Dame 
Young concert." ' 
Young will be performing at the ACC on Oct. 12. Crazy Horse will be the warm-up act. 

the observer Friday, September 15, 11178
4 

Campus dining hall overcrowding continues 
by Mark Perry Staff Reporter 
Although dining hall managers are aware of overcrowding prob-terns at lunch this year, they are hard-pressed for solutions at this time, according to Robert Robin­son , food service director.
' T k p

a e a ro 0 UnC
• •t• t • t t • 

t0 lnl Ia e In erac IOn 
by Margaret Burke 
What do you do when you find yourself with five other marketing majors in three piece suits, twelve extra bucks and one hungry Prof? Simple. "Take a Prof to Lunch." 
John Lohn, a senior marketing major, organized the "Take a Prof to Lunch" program. Marketing Club members can sign up to take a professor or a dean of the Business College to lunch at the University Club or Morris Inn. Six students will be asked to chip in two dollars each to cover the cost of the meal. 
"Interaction between students and faculty is one strength of the Marketing Club," according to Rick LaBelle. Club President. The "Take a Prof to Lunch" program has been successful at other universities. LaBelle said. "The enthusiastic faculty and stu­dent response seems to indicate success for the program at Notre Dame," he added. 
Professor Robert E. Pitts. Mar­keting Club Moderator, said "I 
Concert Series 
to present lsele 
The Notre Dame Concert Series will prc~cnt David Clark lscle. assistant professor of music. in an organ recital !i pm on Sunday, in Sacred Heart Church. The recital. which will follow evening vespers. 
is  open  to  the  public  without  
•hargc.  
lscle.  a  graduate  of  Oberlin  

College. Southern Methodist Uni­versity, and the Eastman School of Music. teaches musk theory and composition at Notre Dame. He also direct~ the Notre Dame Glee Club and the Notre Dame Chorale. 
lsele is well known as a composer and lecturer, as well as a perfor­mer. His works. partkularly those for the organ. have been performed widely in the U.S. and abroad. 
SJnday's program includes works from the Baroque and from the late nineteenth century. In­cluded arc the Prelude and Fugue in D Minor by VIncent Lubeck, Louis Marchand's Fifth suite, Ceasar Franck's Heroic Piece, and Pachelbel's Chaconne in F Minor, and Max Reger's Toccata and Fugue. 
402 Dixieway North 
p•--CUP COUPON -••• 
''";Q~" i ~~ 
FREE I 
HAMBURGER I 
Now at Wendy's Old I Fashioned Hamburgers this 1 coupon entitles you to a free I 
I Single Hamburger with the 
I purchase of two hamburgers I 
1 of any siz~>. I 
I I 
I PRESENT COUPON WHEN ORDERING II 






·------------· 


"And students have made us aware 
of it·, but we don't have any 
answers right now." 

Both dining halls are experienc­ing congestion, Robinson said, although the North Dining Hall is having more serious problems. 
"We see the overcrowding everyday," Robinson continued,
f t L h ' 
may be biased about this, but think it's a great idea." He said the program will give students a chance to interact with the market­ing department faculty outside of a classroom atmosphere. 
Professor David Appel, Chair­man of the Marketing Department, said the student initiative seems to say "we want to get to know you on, a one to one basis." 
"Take A Prof to Lunch" was summed up by Lohn, as an "icebreaking program placed somewhere in between the protocal of the classroom and the controlled insanity of a smoker." 
The main problem arises from the large amount of people who have classes when the dining halls open at 11 a.m. and consequently arrive around 12:15. "Wecan't do anything about the schedules, but we are hopeful that people will notice the problem and adjust to it," Robinson said. 
The North Dining Hall is exper­
iencing a large proble~, because 
the new computer checktng system enables students to eat either dininghall. ·:onMonday,Wednes­
day, and Fnday, we have been averaging 300-400 more people who are eating lunch at the North Dining Hall this year," Robinson said. 
"When we created the present system, we designed it to be flexible, and we would like to continue if it is at all possible," Robinson stated. 
"Because of the scramble sys­tem at the South Dining Hall," he commented, ·'the students wait only about 8-10 minutes. The wait has been much longer at the North Dining Hall. At the North Hall we are only able to serve about 36 

FAIR 

SEE PRO BASKETBALL (Pre Season Game) CHICAGO BULLS (with Scott May and Artis Gilmore) vs. MILWAUKEE BUCKS (with Kent Benson, Quinn Buckner and Marques Johnson) . SUN. SEPT. 24 7:30pm 
NOTRE DAME A.C.C ~~~ 
Tickets: $2.50-$5-$6 i!J:-·: ~ 
ND & SMC students • 
"--1~;A;:;B' $1.00 OFF on Regular $2.50 ticket ~·-~!... \ ON SALE! ACC GATE 10 BoxMILWA;/.Iq:B Office Moo-Sat 9am-5pm BUCKS\ 
NOW! SAT. & SUN

Now Showing 
at 1:30-3:30-5:30-7:30-9:30 
BURT REYNOLDS 
•
IS 
The Bandit in 

''Smokeyand 
the Bandit'' Jackie Gleason is the Smokey~ 

people a minute. The South Hall can handle about 60 people a minute." 
Robinson said that he thought the situation was improving. "We had problems at the beginning of the year with the new student workers slowing down the distribu­tion of food, but it annears tnat everyone is settled in now, "Robin­son said. He added that even if they could get the people in faster, seating capacity is limited so some people would not be able to sit down. 
Robinson said that this problem has occurred before and that the possibility of Saturday classes was once explored, but was defeated by the Faculty Senate. 
"We don't expect the situation to change too much for the rest of this semester," RObinson added, "but any ideas that students might have would definitely be appre­ciated." 
smc Stub€nt CjOV€Rnm€nt 
check cash1nq senv1ce 
Satw~Oay €v€mnqs * at th€ smc <)tmnq hall 4:45 to 6:15 
$5 llmtt anO 10¢ cashmq chaRq€ 

*non-hom€ ~ootsall qam€s 
* CILA CHRISTMAS 
* 
* 
* * CARD DESIGNS 
-are now being accepted deadline for submitting is **************************** 
************ 

Designs must be ********* 
**** 

-limited to one color -drawn to size 4 1/4in by 5 1/2in 
Please submit to: 
BOB FULTON 250 Alumni 8810 
BARB WARD 117 Walsh 3096 
Town & Country Shopping Center Telephone 259-9090 


I I 
EXTRA MIDNITE SHOWS 
FRIDAY & SATUKDAY 
1:30-3:40-5:45-7:50-10-12:00 NOW! 1:15-4:45 7:15-9:30 
~ 



Course evaluation booklet 'well under way' 
by Mike Frailey 

A course evaluation booklet pro­posed last spring will soon become reality. Bill Rooney, editor of the booklet, revealed last night that the student government-sponsored project is "already well under way." Rooney made his comments following a brief organizational meeting of the booklet staff in LaFortune Ballroom. 
The course evaluations will be available by the first week of November, in time for pre-regis­tration day for the '79 spring semester on Nov. 9, Rooney said. 
"The booklet is being published solely for the benefit of the students," Rooney explained. "In 
. the past, students have not been as well informed as they could be about the courses offered. They oftentimes fill their schedules 
blindly through only hearsay ad­vice." 
He continued, "The booklet will better educate the student into making the wise choice in · picking his courses." 
The editor of the booklet pointed out that only University Recom­tion such as a general description of the course, prerequisites, pre­sentation (lecture or discussion), and even possibly the grade averae average from the last class. The number of papers, exams, projects, and attendance policies will also be covered." 
mended Electives in the College of 
Arts and Letters will be covered. 
He also noted that the evaluations 
would stay away from AL courses
Council plans 'Comedy of Errors' 
directed only at AL majors, con­
by Andy Segovia St.ff Reporter 

The Chicago Council of Fine Arts is sponsoring a free matinee per­formance of an offbeat production of William Shakespeare's "A Comedy of Errors" in an attempt to revitalize the South Shore Railroad, according to Julie Jennings, a senior business administration student. 
The free matinee will be presented on Sunday at 3 p.m. at Chicago's Navy Pier. 
"This is a project to obtain some funds for the South Shore rail-
0-C seniors: planning a trip? 
Any on or off-campus senior who plans to go on the Senior Trip and who has not received a letter regarding it, should stop by the Student Activitie<> office in LaFor­tune. The letter outlines plans for the trip and times of collee.ion for the balance of payment. 
road," Jennings explained. 
"The railroad has threatened to close in the last couple of years," she added. "This would be unfortunate since the railroad is vital for many workers who must commute daily to Chicago." 
The play will be presented by the Chicago Artists-in-Residence company. Patrick O'Gara, theatre director, has given the play a 1916 Chicago setting and has his actors appear in costumes as silent-movie stars like Charlie Chaplin, Harold Lloyd, Lillian Gish, and Buster Keaton. 
"Students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's should be concerned about the survival of the railroad," Jennings continued. "Many stu· dents take advantage of the low fare during semester breaks." 
Jennings also pointed out that a 
number of students utilize the railway on weekends for shopping or recreational trips. 
The train will leave South Bend's South Shore station Sunday at 
10:35 a.m. for Chicago. Upon arrival, escorts will greet riders and direct them to the Chicago Transit 
...The fine Things In life! 



Mark Your Calendar 



t. u\~a~~~ 'g gocw~ 
pnesen~ 


SECOND CITY 
September 21st 
watch for more information 
centrating on the most popular Authority's "Culture Bus" which courses that are available to all will take them to the Pier and 
students. return them after the event. The evaluations will follow a simple The train will leave Chicago at five-segment format dealing with 
5:58 p.m. for return to South Bend. the content, presentation, organi­Round trip train fare will be 56.10. zation, and reading list of the 
''The Fine Arts Council hopes to course, according to Rooney. The plan future events to help stimulate fifth segment is a subjective com­further use of the train," Jennings mentary on the course by students 
commented. who have previously taken it. He Students interested in further added that each sement is to be information should call Jennings at clear, concise, and informative. 7976. "Each segment," Rooney said, ''will cover a vast area of informa-
SMC 0-C's circulate petition 
by Rachael Scherer campus to the McCandless lbt, A group of concerned off-campus especially at night. students are circulating a petition 
Saint Mary's· students attending
in hopes of improving campus 
classes at Notre Dame are instruc­
parking at Saint Mary's. 
ted to park in the outer C-4 parking
The group's main complaints 
lot, whereas Notre Dame students
center around the lack of spaces in 
may park in any of the student
the Madel eva parking lot to satisfy 
parking lots at St. Mary's. The
the number Qf off-campus stu­
group's suggestion is that either an·
dents. Since most of their classes 
addition be made to the Madeleva
are held in Madeleva, it is incon­
parking lot, or Notre Dame stu­
venient for tHem to walk across 
THE NAZZ IS BACK!!! 
~tGRAND OPENING'' SATURDAY NIGHT 9:00pm 
Come down to the basement of LaFortune 


and listen to JIM SPEIER AND COMPANY play some great tunes!! I Remember, come early for the best seats!!! 
Sponsored by N.D. Social Commission 
Rooney stressed the added fea­ture of the commentary segment. "The comments from a student who has already taken the course will be of great help to a 'rookie' student who may not know what he is getting into.'' 
The evaluation booklet is a project being run and financed by the Notre Dame student govern­ment. Scholastic Magazine is handling the layout, typing, and journalistic aspects of the project. 
Rooney, as editor of the booklet, has engaged a staff of approxi­mately 80 students in the project. Along with assistant editors Kerry Cavanaugh and Dave Nields, the staff includes 13 department edi­tors. 

QUEEN'S HAIR FASHIONS 
River Bend Plaza 232-2194 · We invite you into· our new branch salon for beauty with a touch of Royalty and prices that are affordable. 
Grand Opening S~ials $15.88 Bonat Penn SlO.SS Bonat Fragrant regularly $30 Styling Included regularly $35 
lues and Wed. 8:30-5:00 Thurs and Fri 8:30-8:30 
l3l-ll94

Sat. 8:00-5:00 
~···~·._;_·:~"-----­
dents be instructed to park only in 
the McCandless area. 
"Parking is a touch situation whatever school you'_re at. Every­one wants to park in the lobby of their class building. If we allowed that, we m1ght as well do away with traffic controfs altogether," com­mented Ant~ny Kovatch, head of Saint Mary· s liecurity. Presently there arc 1300 parking spaces between the three lots. Kovatch added "therti is no reason to have parking prohfems with all of the 
available spots ... 
Parking woblems did surface 
during Notre·Dame's football game 
as some 30 tickets were issued for 
parking violations. 
No students are allowed to park 
in the LeManns parking lot during 
football games and as a result 
"when a student's car is found in 
the wrong place, security is com­
pelled to ticket them to keep traffic 
in control," Stated Kovatch. 
The traffic control/security office 
has heard numerous complaints 
from faculty members who have 
found students' cars in faculty 
designated spots. The majority of 
the LeManns parking spaces are 
especially allotted to faculty and 
administration. However no one 
has assigned places including Dr. 
Duggan, president of the College· 
Janet M~Meel, off campus coor· 
dinator, hopes to g~:t 200 signa­
tures on the petition, located in the 
Madeleva day-students' lounge. A 
similar petition was started at the 
end of last year, however, due to 
the late start, nothing was accom­
plished. Diane Zakowski. a 
member of the off campus board. 
concluded that "the off-caml)US 
students are much more organized 
than they've been in the past. We 
should be able to something 
done about this 


lence."

satire 
"You mean a coup de'etat?" 

"Correct. We'll storm the 
Dome, and inhabit it as long as our grievances are not heard. And
Houses of the Holy unless you tell the world the truth, we 'II remain entrenched as long as 
Everyone knows that the housing problem is one of the worst kept secrets on campus. Living in the lap of luxury. I had not realized the full extent of the deprivations until I stopped by Sacred Heart church the other night for a midnight prayer. There, I witnessed an amazing example of true Christian charity. 
"Psst, funny looking, who the hell are you? You're not a member of the movement." 
"Who are you, and what are you talking about?" 
"You mean you don't know? We're jogging in supplies to our indigent freshmen friends who have yet to locate housing." 
"But I thought everyone had at 
least been assigned to a study 
lounge or a spare kitchen facility." 
"Are you nuts? When I went to Dillon, the rector gave me the option of the br~mclos~~ or the second floor men s room. 
"You're fooling." 
"The broomcloset didn't seem so 
bad; but I opted for the john 
because of the nice view." 
"Good idea." 
''Yeah, but after a while, I got upset when I had vtsitors. My girl was always annoyed by the steady stream of people coming in and intruding on our romantic inter­ludes." 
"A tough way to live, no doubt. But what are you doing here, in front of Sacred Heart church with three pizzas and bedsheets at 12:30 in the evening?" 
"A bunch of us got together-and decided that living at Sacred Heart is better than putting up with the atrocious accomodations we've had thus far. One guy suggested living at the church by night and being students at day is better than bearing the humiliation of cellar dwelling all the time.'' 
"But the food, and bed­sheets..." 
"Oh, most of the students have spent all of their money on sleeping bags, extension cords for our stereos and new headphones, since the music obviously can't be blas­ted. As a result, people in Walsh, Lewis and Sorin decided to chip in and leg lift the necessities. Otherwise, not only would we be homeless, we'd be emaciated and uncouth." 
''What about meal numbers for the dining halls?" 
"Stupid; tt. ·se freshmen are the ones the administration has not told anyone about. Actually, 1900 freshmen were accepted, the extra 250 to meet the needs of some unperceived expenses." 
"So the housing crunch is really a scandalous boondoggle, with the full consent and foreknowledge of the ruling elite?" 
"You don't REALLY believe the increase in upperclassmen staying on campus caused this snafu? do 

you? It's gotten so bad that our 
social space -the crypt-had to be 
redesignated as the study lounge. 
Now, the budding Travoltas are 
forced to boogie under the candle­
light at the grotto.'' 
"What would Tom Dooley 

think?" 
"And that ain't all. Bedsheets 

and pillowcases are becoming a 
luxury because fewer of our sympa­
thetic supporters in the dorms are 
willing to make the covert raids into 
the laundry rooms. Not since Dean 
Stoner issued the EDICT." 
"What Edict?" 

• • Anyone caught with more than their allotted share of linens will face administrative discipline and possible laundry detail. If anyone is seen in public (the campus is loaded with camera happy reac­tionaries) with as much as a pillowcase," separation from the community might result. He said thefts at the laundry have cost the university immeasureable eco­nomic hardships. •' 
"Do the members of the under­ground have any plans for action?" 
"We plan to issue an ultimatum to Fr. Head soon, stating our gripes and 'llemanding some recourse for the inconveniences caused us. If they refuse, we'll resort to vio­necessary.'' 
Thoroughly shaken, I called the 
most respectable journalist I knew, 
and leaked the story. 
The next day, discovering this sensational development in the National Star, an immediate in­quiry was launched. Fr. Head went on a fact finding mission to Calcutta, investigating recent breakthroughs in housing designed to fit the most people in the least amount of space. Dr. O'Feara was instructed to personally tutor Mr. Neist in Addition 1 (no lab) and basic mathematics to insure more accurate estimates in the future. 
Dean Stoner ordered electrified fencing around Sacred Heart Church, had moats built around each dorm to prevent students from leaving after nine p.m. and banned all public consumption of pizza. When questioned about the sever­ity of these attempts to control the movement of the individual, he remarked that the measures were consistent with in loco parentis. 
Thus, the clandestine operation was thoroughly laid to rest. All ne~dy students were given tempor­ary shelter on a houseboat presen­tly navigating St. Mary's lake, with fishing equipment provided gratis. Winter accomodations are still pending. Chris Stewart 
*The Observer 
an independent newspaper serving the P.O. Box Q notre dame and saint mary's community Notre Dame, 
The Observer is publ1!>hed bv students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of e1ther institution. The news is reported as acwrately and objectivPiy as possible. Ed1torials represent the opin1on of a majority of thE' Editorial Board. Commentanes and !etters are the views of their authors Column space 1s available to all members of the community, and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, io; enwuraged. 
EDITORIAL BOARD 
Tony Pace Steve Odland 
John Calcutt Barb Lmghenry Rosemary Mills Phd Cackley 
jean Powley Ann Gales Mike lewis D1ane Wilson Ray O'Brien Bryan Gruley Doug Christian 
Mardi Nevin 
John Tucker Bob Rudy Ed1tor-in-Ch1ef Managing Ed1tor Executive Ed1tor E.xecutive Ed1tor Ed1tonal Ed1tor Copy Editor Samt Mary's Ed1tor News Editor News Editor News E:ditor Sports Editor Features Editor Photo Editor 

Production Manager Busines~ Manager Advertismg Manager 
Vol. XIII, No. 14 Frldly, Slptem bar 15, 1978 
Numbers Game 
ne. Edlton 
Those of us who are between the ages of 18 and 21 face a frustrating dilemma. We fit somewhere between the stages of acne and arthritis. Although we think of ounelves as adults, it appears that we become adults only when it proves advantageous to those who own movie theaters, declare war, or spend tu: dollars. 
As students at Notre Dame, we must deal with a similar problem concerning our adulthood. Our acceptance to the University is based upon a maturity exhibited in our past accomplishments and future goals. Our studies and interactions with members of the Notre Dame community demand adult ~ttitudesl and performance upon our part. Yet, in some aspects of our lives here, we find that we somehow lose this adult status and become simply students identified by nine digit numbers. 



====P.0.Box 0==::;:;;;;:::::::== 
The directive concerning the use of alcohol recently handed down by Dean Roemer has brought up this more basic problem which exists between the students and the administration of theUniversity.As students, we come to Notre Dame 
believing ourselves to be adults. 
Yet, we realize that in several ways the administration does not consider us as such. This only leads to a 
relationship of conflict, not cooperation, between students and administration. The administration becomes a repressive force at Notre Dame. Therefore, in its dealings with us as students, it is vital that the administration first thinks of us as adults. Otherwise, it may have found one solution to the housing
bl 
pro em on campus. 
761441956 

1HIIT'S ThE S/:fUoll) ~­8ACX IN A RIJIJJ THAT IE'S QJJ7HESLJNED! .'ES 60/NG 70/(1/J..I/5 11/fTH Pt:NAJ.:rlliS! 
/ 
' 

~-----~----~---~ 
-----------------~~----------­
letters to a lonely God 
On Not Being Afraid of the Dark 

Death is a bully whose nose should be tweaked, and I hope to be appointed as one of the tweakers. I grow weary of fearing death, for myself and for my friends. I 
become embarrassed for God; death makes 
sucb a fool of Him. I want to be present at 
death's judgment; I want to hear God say 
that death must die. I want to be present at 
resurrections that defeat death's victories. 
I want to see the fallen sparrows renewed 
in their flight. Too long, rehearsing for 
death in my dreams, I have feared death. 
Now, having seen him more closely than 
before, I want to tweak his nose. I want to 
greet death, when he comes irresistibly, 
with insolence and swagger, as though I 
were a baggy-pants clown to whom the 
final snickers belong. 
Having been carried off in an ambulance, on a recent August morning, to St. ·Vincent's hospital, panting for breath like a dowager who jogs to excess, with tubes in my nose as umbilical cords to oxygen tanks, I should by now fear death enough to give up smoking and drinking. I should, byt I don't. In honesty, I tried giving up smoking; and for five days. bedded down in St. Vincent's, Lady Nicotine and I were as much strangers as though her company were outlawed by a celibate's vow. If a man is not faithful to his vices, is he apt to 
be faithful to much else? I could learn to hate myself as a lapsed lush; I couldn't bear to Jive if the Surgeon-General's report were true. A splash of Manhattans makes the whole world kin. A whiff of tobacco routs the noonday devil. I am hooked on the secular liturgies that redeem us from dullness. 
In my New York rectory, as I was being shipped off to St. Vincent's, they are still talking of my beau geste, inviting the pastor to join me in a Last Cigarette. He enjoyed the grim humor,l know. "Good old jaunty Griff," he must have thought. "Dear old grace under pressure. A nervous chap might have asked to be anointed." 
At. St. Vincent's, the doctors told me I was ill with a complaint that had just been fatal to the Pope. Not being the stuff or age of which popes are made, I could go home to the rectory, with pills and a diet and a warning to watch myself. At some instant, in an ambulance passing through New York traffic, I gave up watching myself. For the previous hour, in a rectory bedroom, I had struggled with an experience that seemed like dying. I had decided that I could die "';th courage and humor; believing that, I had done all the watching I needed to do. I remember 
Reverend Robert Griffin 
saying to the paramedic: "I can't believe how detached I feel." He said: "Maybe it's because we just administered morphine.'' "Frankly," I said as a joke, "I would have preferred cocaine." 
Maybe morphine cheered me up; maybe it sedated my anxieties. If so, morphine did more than calm some life-long fears; it slaughtered them as though they were perishable, like fire-breathing dragons. 
Some summers, the return to Notre Dame from New York is as painful as a circumcision. I must kiss the Rockettes goodbye (hahl), and return to a humid room in Keenan where flies and mosquitoes from an open door buzz over me as though I were a dead elephant. Two thousand people ask: "Where did you spend the summer?" Since most of these same acquaintances had inquired in May: "Where are you planning to spend the summer?" I never feel that our dialogue is making much progress. 
This year, the return to campus seemed blessed, like a Thanksgiving or Christmas remembered from childhood. Notre Dame is my home, the Holy CrO'is Commun~ty is my family-these are hardly mstghts 
induced by morphine. More than Man-hattans at Eddy's I wanted to join the Community at Supper in Corby Hall. Each of us is so vulnerable in my religious family. Illnesses and accidents are treacheries that can separate us, and every year deaths occur that leave vacant places at the table. Corby, for me, is full of laughter I will not year again. Constantly, I watch for faces and listen for voices that can come to me only as ghosts. I was so happy not to be a ghost myself; I was so pleased to be at table with brother I have loved for half a lifetime that my hands trembled with the exertion of holding back 

.tears. · Death, when it comes unexpectedly, must 
always seem like & horror. But if death comes when you are waiting for it, hoping for it, it must seem as welcome as a mother's hug. Or if death comes to say: "Not now, not yet. I'll be waiting someplace up the road, but I don't want you to be afraid of going home with a friend"--such a death, comforting as a night sky full of stars, must seem like the dark angel at God's hand, the messenger 
of his hidden mercies. 
I'm glad there wasn't room in the ambulance for tweaking noses. There's no sense tweaking noses when it's your own nose that is out of joint. 

Senior Bar: If you're an underclassman, forget it. Senior Bar ID checkers have gotten tough; you won't be able to get in even if your ID has been changed (they look at the indentations on back.) For legal seniors, its the best place to see your friends and tip a few cool ones. 
Vegetable Buddies; 129 N. Michigan. A. good ph~ce to have a drink, usually with great entertainment. The only problem is the cover <:barge which can shoot your budget for a week. Appearing this week: September 15, 16--Mitch Ryder; Septem" ber 18, 19--mcvies featuring Reefer Mad­ness; September 20--Crohaven, a rock and roll band; September 21--the Citizens Band Jazz Jam. 
Fat Wally'•:US 23 by Kroger. Originally a student-oriented bar, Wally's dosed down a year and a half ago. Reopened recently, this bar looks like it could be one of South Bend's few decent drinking establish­ments. Game room, food, booze, ,_ seven-foot TV screen, and-a great stereo system. The ad says seating room for 500, but that's hard to believe. Might be worth a few drinks. 
lee's B.B;Q.: Always a favorite. ~cellent ribs and low prices on booze. If you haven't been there, go there. 
Clnubar'a: September 17, 7-12 pm. Senior Semi-Formal! For StS, two people can drink as much as thev want, eat as much cheese and crackers as they want, dance as much as they ..-ant, and get two member· ships to South Bend'lt only disco. Can't beat it at those prir.e;;. Normally, though, it's a little overpriced for the average student's money belt, :and besides, it le disco (that was s disco jab, tolts). 
Goole's Neat, .Loaie'a, Corby's Brldpt Maguire's: What can ~ s.aid about these places? If you like to stllnd in crowds, have people step on your feet and spill beer on your shirt, go to it. When there aren't gigantic crowds, these bars are good for a few beers. 

a the .observer 







Plans finalized for St. Mary's Founder's Day 
Founders Day yet." Trigiani enthusiastically said,byMeaKeUy 
The main events of the com­"We want to enlighten the St. memoration will be held from Mary's community, as well as 
The agenda for the annual Saint Thursday and Friday, the 12th and Notre Dame, of the rich historical Mary's Founder's Day, celebrating 13th of October . For two weeks background on which this school is their !35th year in operation, is before, a series of programs depic­based." now being finalized, in what Co­ting historical moments will be Chairwoman Adri Trigiani and presented through the media to The theme is Strong St. Mary's Mary Ellen Maccio "consider to be spark an interest in the heritage of Women: Past, Present, and Fu­the most exciting and informative the college. ture, and a dress dinner will start 
Legal Service will offer aid 

Notre Dame Student Legal Ser­vices will again this year provide free legal aid to qualified Univer­sity students and employees, Di­rector Clyde McFarland an­nounced. 
To qualify, a potential client must havf" a personal income within 2S percent of official poverty levels, he added. 
The purpose of the program is ''to insure free legal service for those financially unable to afford it," McFarland said. "We represent students in non-University related legal matters, suoh as landlord­tenant disputes, contractual dis­agreements, loan defaults, and other civil matters," he said. 
"We do not represent students in criminal matters, fee generating matters (such as divorce and personal injury cases), or frivolous matters," he added. 
The legal aid or~anizatiou is run bv second and third year .law students under the supenoision of A rtomey Peter Broccolerti, Assis­tant Rector in Fisher Hall. 
Broccoleffi joined the group in 1Q76 after serving as a consultant for the students. He assisted in running legal aid groups in Florida and Virginia and stlll files plead­ing!'i and appears in court, as required by Indiana statutes. "To keep in practice" he advises law students in research and proce­dure. 
McFarland explained "StudP.nt Lesal Services is a branch of the Legal Aid Association formed by the Notre Dame Law School 10 allow practical opportunities to develop professional still!5. '' He stressed, however, that "all advise i• under the supervision of a professional attorney.'' 
"We've been here over three y<lars," he said, "so we have a lot of experience in that respect." He estimated the orRanization's staff of nine people handl~s 300 to 400 cao;es each year. 
Students who utilize the legal aid mnst submit forms concerning tin.tncial statu~ and consent to be · reprf'sented by the iaw ~tud(;nts, : a~cording to McFarland. 
To remind students of this free legal aid, McParland said Student Le~al Services will advertiK :n tht. Obllerver. He adr!rd th~ otBanizl'· tion asked the t-all Pl't:sident•' 
St.. Mary's 
Social 
l Commission I presents '78 I'MOVIE SERIES 
I 
jsounb o~ mustc ISept. 14 1:oo 
Sept. 15 7:00 
& 10:30 
only $1 
Carroll Hall 


Council to post stgns in the can be made by calling 7795 residence halls. between 10 a.m. and 2 p.m. 
A lact of publicity "has been a Monday throush Friday, McFar­problem in the past," he said. land stated. All matters are "We haven't advertised well "strictly confidential. We empha­enough." size the professional nature of our 
Appointments _for legal advice relationships with students." 
ND SMC SENIORS SEMI FORMAL 
CINNAB~4RS on: Sun, Sept 1 7pm-12midnight 
Tickets $15 per couple all you can drink cheese & crackers club membership ND info: ask hall reps SMC info: LeMantt lobb 
~~~=~01 f~:~~~~ ···~~ 
I

I Save50( f 
.. This coupon entitles the . .
I . 
bearer to the abov~ savings I' 
I 
o~f the regular pnce. of a . Chtcken Planks. Dmner .,.. 
· . · · 
Offer limit~, an.e~oupon. I.
pnpnM>n.~rvlsJt. ' .
I E.-:pires 9/~·/7r · .. ~· · ' ' · 
-1 CUmg~SiJver~ 
~ 
.~ 
~~ 
Clip this 

~::t'; Sail tor ~ 
savings at Long 
John
Silver's. 

! ~ 
~ 
the activities on Thur5day in the St. Mary's Cafeteria with an "exotic" menu. Also on that day, six authentic uniforms from the past will be worn to convince student they were really worn, according to Trigiani. Following dinner, from 6-7. there will be a dessert in Angela with a Founder's Day Cake and entertainment, featuring past, present, and future St. Mary's, with a special surprise," according to Trigiani. 
The Founder's Day spirit will continue on Friday with the sale of limited edition Founder's Day T­shirts, free balloons and a decision on the Hall Banner Contest. On Sunday, a Founders Day mass will be said at the Church of the Loretto for the community. 
Mary Laverty, Director of Stu­dent Activites, and advisor for the Founder's Day Activities, said we intend to stress the wonderful 135 years of history of the school," and she added "Adri and Mary Ellen are working terrifically hard, and will make it a fun and exciting celebration." 



chauncey's 

2 stocks ~Rom campus on So. BenO ave.. (next OOOR to kROGeR's) 
sanbWJCh€S, bRinks. anO SUDER b€l1CIOUS nUtRitiOnal ~Q€€Z€Q ~R€Sh IC€ CReaJr 
ROOt B€€R happy hOUQ ffion thQU C~l 
4:3Q-7:30 Root B€€R 10¢ no ·JO's R€QUJR€b 

Chauncey's Oan~y paRlOR 
t 733 So. Beno ave. 


A New World of Wining and Dining Oassic Entrees~!alian Specialities l N. h S k . I d.
ate •g t nac s Inc u lng
Pizza and Sandwiches 

R · A ted t 11 t•
eservat1ons ccep a a 1mes 
1611 So. Main follow US 31 (219) 234-3258 
South to Indiana Ave. Also Serving on Sunday 
~-----------------·---·------· 

Good~~OOD SHOPPES ® ¥:,. 
~ Roseland Shoppe ·· ~ ~,. --~"iillf~·~~-·~~-~ 
~ ·~~~.~.~-·~.-. g{ 
~OOlfOOOOOlllffillfOOOOOOOOlJOOffi~O~ 
~ oQQQo o o QQ_Q_Q_QQ_Q_Q_Q.D_Q_Q_QQ_Q_Q!)_QQQ_Q_Q_QJL_Q_QQ.m • 


: IYLOR REIITAL : 
• Ce;z;;t::.e,.,"l -• 
: REFRIDGERATORS : : RENT CHEAP !! ! 
. ·:· 
: $28/semester : 
: 1427 N .. Ironwood 277·219() : 
• 
.). 

i 
I 
I 
I 
\ 
~--­
-...,'":"':--;--.,.._, --~-~------­
.... 
with Special Guest 
AC/DC 
SA1'URDA Y SEPT. 30 8P.M. NOTBE DAME A.C.C.

Lfestival seati.,g on floor S-8.501 reserved seat! f 8.50 and $7 now at ACC Bo:t office 
---· 


the observer 




Raymond misses 'open door policy' 
by Diane P. Carey 

"It's so hard to get to see me these days I'm getting to be a mystique," Vincent Raymond Dean of the College of Business Administration told a small informal audience in the Pangborn Hall chapel last night. "I really mis the open door policy I used to have. That's why I'm seriously considering going back to the classroom--so I can get back to the students.'' 
Raymond gave the first talk in the Pangborn Hall Speaker Series, sponsored by the hall's academic commission. The series is de­signed to give students an oppor-
FAITH UNITED mETHODIST CHURCH 
E. Ewing at So. High South Send, Indiana 
WORSHIP, SUNDAYS 10:45 am TRANSPORTATION AVAILABLE CHURCH VAN PICK-UP LIBRARY CIRCLE 
10:00 am Each Sundau Tele hone 288-1777 ot 291-4872 
~-STARTS 

1 Mile North of NOTRE DAME on U.S. 31 North 
Sat.Sun. 
Just South of NORTH VILLAGE MALL • (219) 277-1522

TONITE! 

1:45-4:00~6:45-9: 10 

...and his brother will touch your heart! 
AJENNINGS LANG PRODUCTION 
DAVID PROVAL JAMES ANDRONICA MORGANA KING JOE SPINELL TOVAH FELDSHUH MARIE SMITH-CAFFEY 
Written by JAMES ANDRONICA Directed by PAUL WILLIAMS Produced by JENNINGS LANG R u•~:1~~~w~:i'::.W:'" Music by LALO SCH 1!~}~LLA~~~~~YERS~ hf~gs!~r~~uOI!~~~L~~9sqE~E9v~®
19 
.:\ 

StartS ' PHILIJPPE DEBROCA'S STARRING ANNIE GIRARDOT-PHILIPPE NOIBETM{I) >H!tjI I • TON/TE ' ' Dear Inspeetor' ' PG In French dialogue with
FRIDAY 7:()()-9:30
liEn TO IIOITM VIU.UIIIILL I , • · SAT* SUN. 2:1l0-4:20-7:1l0-9:30 English sub-t!tles 
tunity to talk with faculty and administrators they might not al­ready know, and last night's dis­cussion centered on grades and the job market. 
"The answer to the question whether or not grades are the most important thing to business and grad schools is an absolute, un­equivocable 'Yes,' the dean said, "even though in my opinion that's not the way it should be." 
Raymond noted that when com­panies recruit at the University they often ask for the "best" people, and that means the 4.0 student according to Raymond. "The way the system is now, if 
you.'re not a 3.8 or a 3.9, then you're not the best." Although Raymond admitted that grades can be crucial in getting 
'~1 helmet rule' .meeting set 
There  will  be  an  emergency  
meeting  of  all  interhall  football  
coaches  and  hall  presidents  to  

discuss the 21 helmet rule Sunday night at 12:30 in the Stanford-Kee­nan chapel. Persons with questions should call Richard Ward 8658 to Jim Brutz 8760. 
·················~··················
:SENIORS: · 
a If you still haven't made your :appointment for yearbook portraits: 
:and retakes please call 3557 · i ~~~g'jJ~
* . . * 
t between 9-5 monday thru · Friday 
************************************~ 
See it from the start TONITE at 6:45-9:10 
job interviews, he encouraged stu­dents not to apologize. for their academic records. "If an inter­viewer asks you to account for your 
2. 7, tell him you chose to come where the competition is tough." "Besides, if you have a low average, you're probably some­thing special anyway--there may be 
something you have  as  an  indivi­ 
dual  that  will  click  with  the  
interviewer," he said.  Raymond  

also assured students that there is a directly proporti()nate relation­ship between the job a student gets and the effort the student makes to get the job. " 
Concern about grades, due to 
Pabst Blue Ribbon Pabst Extra Light 
otd style 8~~ 
Drewry's 
Falstaff 
DRAFT TRUCK TAPPING EQUIPMENT CUPS AND ICE 
KEG BEER ONLY 
SOLD AT RETAIL 
tightness in the job market, has 
led to a seriousness among stu­dents. Raymond noted that this is the biggest change in the students since he came to the University in 1957. "It used to be you could walk down the hall and hear chuckles coming from the classrooms. It's not very often you hear that anymore." 

~@}ol(.ML~'l'lill 


10 the observer Frldly, sut~tnlur u. 1111 

Jersey community experiences high incidence of cancer 
RUTHERFORD, NJfAP) • State health and environmental officials conceded yesterday they cannot explain an abnormally high inci­dence of leukemia and Hodgkin's disease in this suburban communi­ty of 21,000. 
Math Club to hold picnic 
The Math Club will hold a picnic on Sunday, at I :30 behind Caroll Hall. The purpose of the picnic is to provide an opportunity for all undergraduate math majors, con­centrates. and intents to meet and socialize with each other and with graduate students and faculty. 
All majors as well as other persons interested in math are encouraged to attend. The rain­date for the picnic is September 24, and the cost is 50 cents. 
rQl).L~1~1TY 
~@>~"~~~, 
~~~ 
WE'VE' DONE JT!/ HE'S GoNE 8<\CK JN! 

A summary of a six-month investigation, released last night, reports on possible causes of 32 cases of blood-related cancer over a five-year period -two of them fatal -in this borough about eight miles west of New York City. 
Two youngsters who attended the Pierrepont School, located in the vicinity of 16 of the cases, died within the past three years. Six of the persons stricken with leukemia attended the school. 
The odds against having five or more cases of leukemia at the same grade school were estimated at 10 million to one, the report said. 
Luke A. Sarsfield said yesterday he is convinced the abnormally high cancer cluster is a statistical aberration." 
"The report doesn't tell me one blessed thing that wasn't already known," he said. "I'm not happy about it (the lack of conclusions in the report), but I think most of 
lopMk....l M.l'-111 
• 

oall 

iCI!I~ 
OVER OUR OVEN-BAKED 
''3 Egg'' ODlelettes 
LIGHT & FLUFFY FROM . ALL SERVED WITH; $2 09 
1 

CHOICE OF\ • I 
3 Buttermilk Pancakes or Toast 
U.S.31 (Dixiewoy NOrth) in Roseland (Across from Holiday 
OPEN 8:00A.M. DAILY 
OPE 24 HOURS FRI. a 
Rutherford's citizens will be satis­
fied there is no danger in sending 
their children to school" 
The report revealed that nine carcinogens are present in the air here, but none in great enough concentration to explain the ab­normally high cluster of the diseases. 
Vitaki releases 

Mardi Gras theme 
"Once Upon a Classic" will be the theme of this year's Mardi Gras, according to Marie Vitaki, publicity chairwoman. 
The theme is the concept aro4nd which the halls build their Mardi Gras booths, Vitali said. "Any­thing from The Diad to Catch 22 will be in order," she commented. 
John McAustin, general chair­man began plans for this year's festivities last April, along with the rest of the executive committee: Bob Morin, coordinator: Mike Mil­ski, business manager; and Jim Swintal, head architect. 
Anyone interested in working on a booth should contact their hall president, Vitali said. 
Yesterday's Answers 


51 Not suitable 23 Coach Hank ---­56 Church attendees 24 Examines before 57 One of the con-robbing
quistadors 25 Pirate's word 59 Drum sound 26 Car or horse 60 Subject of Newton's 27 More to Nader's 
first law 1 i king61 Attractive 29 Gap: Sp. 62 Sink 30 Literary twist 
31 Ora pro ---­32 Rub lightly in 
DOWN passing I Secular 33 Spokesperson 2 Prefix: at right 35 "Star ----" 
angles 36 Kind of flu 3 Sports organization 38 Fearless 4 Liquid measures 42 "----of Honey"
·(abbr.) 44 "Go away!" 5 Parting word 45 Aspects of 6 Narrow inlet clothing 7 Type of orange 46 Give a darn 8 Mark Twain 47 "An apple----... " 
character 48 Word in campaign 
9 Actress Hope ----pas ter 10 Victim of 57-Across 49 Parseghian, et al. 11 Ripening agent 50 Mother of Apollo12 Study, with "up" 52 Certain fed 13 Emulate Charlie 53 Comedian Johnson 

Brown 54 School chief (abbr.)14 Chemical endings 55 Frog 21 Kind of absence 58 Suffix for hero 
1collegiate crossword 
ACROSS 
1 ----of the law 8 Easily bent !5 City near Los 
Angeles16 Capital of Burma 17 ----bread 18 Burning fragrance 19 Film comedian 
Charlie---­20 Relative of jeans22 Financial grace 
period 24 Large letters, for short 28 Subject of Kilmer 
poem29 Crosby and cherry 34 Earhart, for one 36 City near Chicago 37 Pacific inlet 
(3 wds.) 39 Regard highly 40 Create a closed 
shop41 Mythical carrier 42 Thin Man's pooch 43 Belgian river 44 Ship parts 46 Procession 







Budweiser 
KING OF BEERS II • ANHEUSER·BUSCH.INC • STLOUIS 

~-~-----~~----------~.~.':;·~
... 

---------, 
Friday, September 15, 1111 
the observer jj 

* Budweiset Products will be on special
* 

* ­
tPrize awarded to person who picks
* 

tthe winning fighter & the round tin which he wins 
* 
*! WHO WILL IT BE? :* i speechless Muhammad Ali : * *
t smiling Leon Spinks : t or Fighting Fred Scwartz : 
* 


STUDENT TICKETS [1-51 FORbench. Same time, same place Friday for Jo Heil 683-4467. some Football. 
HOME GAME. PLEASE HELP• TRISH 4-1..c311 THANX.

I need aride to the Eastern Ill Univ. area SMC Chick -Desperate. You've got it charleston, Mattoon or Champaign. Can 
Needed Desperately: 2 Michiganand I need it. Michigan tickets at any leave anytime this friday will share 
will pay everything I have Callprice Call 4-1-5488. driving and expenses call Tim at 1003. 
1478. 

Will trade 2 student tickets for 2 GA Tennis & Racketball Rackets restrung 
Notre Dame -Michigan Ticketstickets for Pitt game. Call 4-1-4438. professionally at affordable price. Call 
Exchange for Tickets to Next

Joe Montroy 1469. 
sellout Game In Ann Arbor or money.

Will trade two 1979 Mich vs. NO tickets 
31~7230. 

or one Notre Dame and one Ohio State Disco secret #13-ls it true that Jenny G. ticket, or money lor one 1978 Mich/ND and Mary M. are starting a high class 
Desperately Need 10 Michigan Tickets.

ticket. Call Tom Collect at 1-313-971-disco in Lewis? Who knows for sure-stay Student or GA. 8721 Evenings.
6048. posted for details. 
MICHIGAN TICKETS NEEDED. WILL Disco secret #14-Will the Sophmore class Desperately Need GA tickets for Mich­PAY MEGABUCKS! CALL MIKE AT officers really start a conga line at the igan. Call Joe 8691 .
1371. annual class picnic em Saturday?? The only way to find out Is to buy your $3.00 
Desperately need two GA tickets to

Wanted: one student football ticket for ticket and go to the Soph picnic-what a 
home game. Scott 1624.

Purdue game. Call 4-1-4243. bargain-transportation, food, fun, refre­shments and a conga line led by Henrr,!K 
Need 1,2,3,4, Mlch GA tickets.

Wanted: 2 GA Purdue tix. Can pay big 
no object. Brian 1610.

bucks or trade 2 Pitt tix. Debbie 8150. 
Slumber Party All NO • Night Please Help! Parents won't come see me 11:30 fun for all. unless I obtain 2 GA Michigan tickets$$$ 
Addressers Wanted

call 7607. Kathy-
Work at horne-no experience """~•rv-.11

If aclown makes people happy. then your 
excellent pay. Write American

Desperately need 2GA tickets for Purdue my favorite clown. Happy Birthday! 
8350 Park Lane, Suite 127, Dallas

Game. Will pay top dollar. Call Dick -GARY 
75231.

6158. HEY" Mary Kay we mean what we say so 
Rich Uncle will cut me out of his

Part time, evening delivery personnel why not say Yea! 
unless Iget him 2 GA Mlch Tlx. Willwanted. $3.50 an hour quaranteed. One O'Four In Carroll (4511) top $. Laurie SMC 4679.

Apply in person. Julio's 2509 S. Michigan ST. after 4:30. Ladles Nita at Senior Bar. What's an 
Desperately Need 2 GA tlx for Mich.

Irish Kiss? Come and find out Tonlte. 
will pay big bucks. Call Bill 8333.

Wanted: Four tickets to Michigan game. Call 2n-2944 after 6 p.m. 823 Is the place to be party tonight 823 
Hillbilly family coming from California

Notre Dame Ave. (across from NO apts.) 
learn about football. Need 2 GA

WANTED: One student or GA ticket for 8:00... BE There!! 
student tickets for Michigan. Will

the Michigan game. Call 4-1-4420. 
take Purdue or Pitt GA tlx. Call

Little CJ-for Jethro.
Desperately need one student or GA They Always say, "Run away." But I'm ticket to Michigan game. Call 1842. sure of what I've found; I believe I'll'
star. And In the long run... who save we Need 2 GA Michigan Tlx!! Please Cll wil say? Kristin 7968. MJM 
Father returning to NO after 20 Need 1 GA tlciCet for Pitt Game.

Anxious to trade 2 MSU tix for 2 Pitt. Barber willing to serve as ticket chairman 
Rose at 1320.

Call 283-6539 or m-3333. for farewell dinner for the Coor's Dlstrlbuter. 
WILL TRADE "YES" Tickets for

Need Many tickets to Pitt game. Student student passes Mark 3138. 
or GA Call Mary 6850 David 
Happy 21st. Quedo tuya slempre, Need GA and student tickets for all home Marydel Ray games, especially Michigan. Call Jerry 
PERSONAU

3795. Sweetness, You are my dream 
KATHY KEPPLER-HOPE YOUR ••ul&'l'llu

WANTED: 2 GA Michigan Tlx. Will My lady supreme 
WAS A FUN ONE.

trade excellent Yes Tlx and/or cash. Call Hope we get toghether ian m-5715 or Pat 283-1730. Before Advent of nast weather Secret Admirer 
Pajamas, Popcorn, movies fun what

Archbishop of Knoxville, entourage on a Saturday Night.
making pllgramlge for Tennessee game. Margaret McMenamin will be legal Threatens excommunication of all If 4 GA ~turday. Help her celebrate by buying 
Bilski Is not God

tickets not supplied. Call Mike (agent} her a beer. 3285. SAve NO please. 
Augusta-Dillon Happy Hour ~ pm at

Lyon's Rent-A-Doomeflotchle opens Its 
Nickle's 21 10 required.

WANTED: Two GA tickets for Purdue doors today In the basement. Stop by Game. Call Michele 8007. anytime-The despot manager Is looking 
JEWISH STUDENTS Interested In meet­

for slaves. For more Information can 1 
Ing with other ND Jewish students and

Rich Uncle needs 4 GA/2 student Purdue 7827. this was brought to you by Kleby's faculty, please sign up on sheet Intbc. Good$$. Bill 3303. Committee on ankle development and ItsI 
~~lnlstry Office, Rm. 103 Ubrary

affect upon the ethnic personality. Need 2 GA tlx for Tenn. 6893. ALL NO GIRLS-BE THERE 11:30 pm Wanted two football tickets lor Michigan: SAT STEPAN CENTER. Will pay a good price for student or GA 
tickets call 1770. COUSIN PETER. Thanks alot for building me. Idon't know If 1could stand without you, your so good with your tools. 
Love your crooked bar 
HI THERE 3HOLY CROSS NORTH MAlN1111111111 

activities office by Friday. 

This Friday_ From opening bell to last pu 

NEED DESPERATELY ANY 


12 tbt ObSIFJ81' frldly, September 15, 1171 
Merv Johnson earns praise, guides Irish offensive unit 
In a world where it's hard to find 
two people who agree on anything, 
there seems to be a concensus on 
Merv Johnson: 
Bob Golic says: "He's a highly 
respected coach among the 
players. Those that work under 
him regularly have nothing but 
good things to say about him." 
"He deserves more praise than 
he's getting," remarked Ted Hor­
ansky. "He has a tremendous 
concept ofthe total offense; he runs 
the show quite well." 
And there's more. 
Rusty Lisch: "He's certainly one 
of the excellent organizers. He 
handles the players extremely well 
as individuals, and as a group. He 
accounts for much of the success of 
our team." 
Pete Johnson: "He's an admir­
able person who's respected by 
everyone as a coach, and more 
importantly, as a man." 
"He is a fine offensive coordin­
ator," remarked Tim Foley. "He 
has a tremendous knowledge of the 
game, and he gets along well with 
his players." 
Dave Huffman: "Coach Johnson 
is one of the finest men I've met in 
my life...both on and off the 
football field." 
Mike Calhoun summed it up best: 
"He's just a tremendous person." 
Just who is Mecv Johnson, and 
why are they saying all of these 
great things about him? 
All one has to do is meet him to 
know the answers to both ques­
tions. 
Merv Johnson is the assistant head coach, offensive coordinator, and line coach here at Notre Dame--a job that carries its fair share of the pressure, and not nearly enough of the glory. 
But Merv Johnson isn't in it for the glory ... 
In his office yesterday, amid football-film projectors and hung­up program covers of better days, Johnson soberly looked back on the Missouri game, as a survivor of the Alamo might wistfully recall the 

Yankees win, 
Red Sox lose 
DETROIT !API -Graig Nettles hit two homers and drove in three runs, helping Ed Figueroa record his sixth consecutive victory and carrying the New York Yankees to a 4-2 triumph over the Detroit Tigers Thursday night. 
The triumph, New York's eighth in nine games, boosted the Yan­kees' first place lead to 1 112 games over Boston in the Ameri­can League's East Division. 
Rich Gosage relieved Figueroa, 17-9 and gave up a two-run double to Lou Whitaker before Sparky Lyle put out the fire. 
The loss left loser Jim Slaton at 15-11. 
NO Sailing team launches season 
This weekend the Notre Dame Sailing Team will be hosting their first regatta of the year. Nine midwest and three out of district teams will be sailing against the Irish on Eagle Lake in Edwards­berg, Michigan. 
The Sailing Team captured the Midwest Championships last year and will be out there defending their title. Collegiate sailing at its finest can be expected with nation­ally ranked teams participating. Among these include the US Naval Academy (I), University of Michi­gan (11), Michigan State (12), Miami of Ohio (15), and Florida State (18). The Irish were 20th nationally last year and will be out to improve on that record this weekend. 
The Sailing Club is also holding their annual get together at Guiseppes with all students in­vited. 

day of the attack. coaching stalwarts as Johnny 
"It was the longest three hours Majors and Barry Switzer. 
I've ever spent on a Saturday "I learned an awful lot from each 
afternoon," sighed Johnson. one of those guys," credits John­
"It reminded me of the Michigan son. "From working with them, I 
State game of 1975. We had not only learned what to do, but 
controlled the ball most of the just as importantly, what not to 
game, but due to turnovers within do." 
our twenty yard line, we never As much as Johnson enjoys 
scored until we kicked a field goal coaching at Notre Dame (the Irish 
late in the fourth quarter." Championship of last year still 
"With four minutes left," he ranks as the high point of his 
painfully remembers, "they broke career), he has never concealed his 
a 78 yard run to the two yard line. desire to be a head coach. 
We lost 7-3." "I tried very hard for the head 
"I thought that we were in good coaching job at Missouri," related 
condition for the weather. We Johnson, who eventually was beat­
made a lot of big plays. We had out for the job by Warren Powers. 
good performances in positions "I guess that every assistant coach 
where we didn't expect it. Joe has head coaching in mind. As you 
(Montana) wasn't sacked all day... get older, you have to take a 
it was heartbreaking ... totally frus­serious look at where you are 
trating." going. 
"It reminded me of the Michi­When one has a family (he and his 
gan...... wife, Cindy, have three children: 
There have been brighter mo­Jan, 13, Jeff, 10, and Jill, 8 today.), 
ments in Johnson's career, which it is not easy living, as assistant 
dates back to 1958 when he was an coaches do, on a year-to-year basis, 
assistant coach for the Razorbacks. getting one-year· contracts every 
He went from Arkansas to Mis­year. 
souri, and coached the offensive But coaching for Notre Dame can 
line in 1960 when the Tigers went make such inconveniences worth­
11-0 and won the Orange Bowl. while. And if you're Merv John­
From there, it was back to Arkan­son, and optimistic about the future 
sas, where he coached under the of Notre Dame football (even after 
legendary Frank Broyles. the Joss to Missouri) it is a life that 
In fact, Johnson developed much can be down-right gratifying. 
of his coaching philosophy through "At this point, we have a much 
his close 
association with such better looking team than the one 

Ray O'Brien 
I May Be Wrong But... 
All I can say about last week's picks is: I was wrong but... With Notre Dame off, the picking should be a little easier. There are a few excellent match ups this week, but overall the majority ofthe classic battles will taxe place later in the season. The Ohio State -Penn State game is a regional game that will be shown in almost every region (like the upcoming Michigan-Notre 'Dame contest). The other exciting contests are the Purdue-Michigan State game and the Alabama-Missouri matchup. In addition, most of the betting in Las Vegas will be on the Ali-Spinks fight which will be televised nationally. So with the help of that wise bearded prognosticator, Lou Severino, here are this weeks predictions. 
California at Georgia Tech: The Golden Bears dropped a contest to a hungry Nebraska team last Saturday as neither the offense or defense were impressive. Georgia Tech looked dull as they were upset by a less than ferocious Duke squad. The Rambling Wreck couldn't have gone through paper wall even though their offense has been revised to include a new secret weapon --the pass. California boasts a young. but stingy, defense and if they catch a early lead Georgia Tech will once again wallow in their conservative comeback offense. Call it an upset. but California will win by 6. Severino agrees. 
Alabama at Missouri: The Crimson Tide owns undisputed bragging rights to the number one poll position at this point in the season, but Missouri is no fluke and they are playing at home. However, back to back games against top notch calibre teams are tough for any team to handle, and when you arc the underdog, there is that emotional preparation that the Tigers will be lacking. Expect the Tiger defense to continue to surprise people. (Linebacker Chris Garlich was the AP Defensive Player of the Week). It will take more than a field goal to stop Bear and Company as Alabama wins by 10. Severino takes Alabama by 17. 
Pitt at Tulane:Tulane disappointed me last week as they did not come close to upsetting Maryland as predicted. QB Roch Ho1;1tas did not impress any pro scouts as the offense was not overpowering (Willard Browner didn't make Notre Dame fans wish he never left.) This is the Panthers opener and with many talented but inexperienced players, it may take a while to get started. Nevertheless, by the end of this game, Tulane is going to wish they never expanded their program as Pitt wins by 
14. Severino likes Pitt by 10. 
Dllnols at Michigan: We included this game just so the "experts" would ~ave at least one right. While Notre Dame will be scrimmaging this weekend in preparation for next Saturdays game, so will the Wolverines. This game should allow Schembechler's squad to work out any kinks and enable• Rick Leach to get a big statistical head start on the rest of the Reisman candidates. Ron Simpkins will make 20 tackles, Harlan Huckleby and Russell Davis will each rush for over one hundred yards and, if the Wolverines are merciful, they will win by under SO. Severino conservatively takes Michigan by 37. 
Northwestern at Iowa: I may have been wrong about ND's prowess but I predicted that the Illinois-Northwestern duel would be a dud. Although that's no revelation. the score, as was suggested, turned out to be 0-0. This week the Wildcats will get on the board, but not as many times as Iowa. This is the Hawkeye's opener, so expect the first quarter deficit to be no greater than seven points. The father-son combination at Iowa (Coach Bob Commings and quarterback Bobby) will be too much as the Wildcats look to extend their undefeated streak to three games. O'Brien and Severino pick Iowa by 10. 
UCLA at Tennessee: UCLA got handed their season opener against Washington but ther is no way the offense they displayed in that game will lead them to a PAC 10 championship. The defense should be able to carry them through another week, but an upset in Knoxville is not out of the question. Johnny Majors' team has a tou~h schedule but in the vears 

Johnson looks to improve ND''s offense by next Saturday. [photo 
by Bob Gill] that lost to Mississippi a year ago," Johnson has done something very sounded Johnson. "Now, I can't right in relating to them. His 
say that what happened to them hypothesis? will happen to this team, but there "I've always tried to keep ID) were bright spots Saturday." personality on an even keel," said 
"Ifthe players take the Joss in the Johnson, "rather than reaching proper light," he adds, "we can peaks and valleys. I guess it makes make it happen. It is possible." me easi~r to live with." 
Judging from what his players say And hts players couldn't agree about him, it is safe to say that more... 

The Irish Eye 
ahead these uphill battles may pay off in gold. Look for a couple of freshmen to open some eyes, but experience will win out in the end as UCLA escapes by 6. Severino says it will be UCLA by 9. 
Kansas at Washington: The Hu!>kies had about the same amount of luck as the Irish last week as the only TD the defense allowed was on a blocked punt but that was enough as UCLA won 10-7. Washington blew numerous scoring opportunities, but JC transfer Tom Porras looked sharp at quarterback (one of the few question marks in the starting lineup) Don James' squad will get back on track this week if the weather improve~ and Kansas will have their second loss in two tries. O'Brien goes with Washington by 9 while Severino labs the Huskie!> by 17. 
Michigan State at Purdue: whoever wins this game will become the top rival to the dynamic duo of Michigan and Ohio State. The Boilermakers boast an explosive offen!>e while QB Mark Hermann looks to pick up as the top passer in the nation. Now a year older, Hermann should be twice as tough;cutting down on interceptions (29 in 1977). Purdue also boasts a better than mediocre defense while MSl!'s defense has little or no experience. Look for an aerial duel with Purdue coming out on top by 4. Severino likes the Spartans by 3. 
Brigham Young at Arizona State: This Sun Devils opened their season impressively shutting out Pacific 37-0. While the competition wasn't tough , it may be the same this Saturday. The team that led the nation in passing last year could manage only one TD against Oregon state (it was enough to win). Marc Wilson is pro material, as he proved last year against Utah (571 yards passing). Unless Arizona State's secondary gets shell shocked they should pick up their second victory of the early season. Severino and O'Brien pick the Sun Devils by 10. 
USC at Oregon:J The Trojans did not roll over Texas Tech last Saturday but they did manage to win which is more than ND fans would have settled for. USC travels this week but maybe some of that opening game pressures will stay in Southern California. Oregon dropped their opener with Colorado but after Saturday they still won't be saying "home sweet home." Charles White rushed for 156 yards on 30 carries and will improve on that total this week as USC gains their first conference win and begins convincing people that they are national contenders. The consensus is usc by )6. 
Penn State at Ohio State: It is about time the top echelon of college football started facing each other on the field instead of complaining when one team was picked ahead of the other in the polls. There may never be another undefeated national champion, and that can only help the college game as contests like this really pull in the viewers. What would a game with OSU be without Woody Hayes complaining. This was suppose to be the season opener for both teams, but Penn St. had to reschedule and already have two wins under their belt which gives them an edge. That advantage should be offset by the fact that the game is at Columbus. Chuck Fusina, and an awesome defense, will make the difference as Joe Paterno goes one better than Woody and the Nittany Lions win by 6. Severino sees the Buckeyes winning by 4. 
Leon Spinks vs. Muhammad All: Ali attempts an unprecedented third heavyweight title. It will be the last song for the 38 year old legend and he is ready to go out the way he came in --with class. It seems he is in the best shape he has been in in years and he has convinced the boxing world , that their will be no fooling around and if he loses it will be because there was a better fighter in the ring. Spinks has a lot more pressure on him this time and is not mentally prepared the way he was the night he took the title. I don't think there will be a KO but if someone falls, it will be Spinks. Ifthey both stand by the final bell, Ali's experience should be the deciding edge. I MAY BE WRONG BUT...I'LL PICK ALI BY UNANIMOUS DECISION. 





