SB candidate tickets meet in public forum 
by Phil Cackley information agency to Jet students Senior Staff Reporter know what was going on, but could also possibly advise the office of 
Three candidate tickets running Student Affairs, she said. "Even if for Student Body President /Stu­we can't change what's happening. dent BodyVice-President presented we should know what's going on," their platforms and answered ques­Ewing stated. tions from a group of 60 students in 
A major conference on Third a one and one-half hour long public World development to be held this forum held last night in Flanner fall was proposed by McKenna as aPit. 
means of improving student aware­Candidates Mike Schlageter and ness of social concerns. Some SO urJayne Rizzo, Andy McKenna and 
60 student leaders from majorMike Roohan, and Bruce Blanco univerisities across the countryand Carey Ewing responded to would be invited to the conference.
questions on a wide variety of The conference would also featuresubjects including course evalua­major speakers in the areas of
tion booklets, a Third World Deve­economics and Third World deve-
NO: SMC won't
lopment Conference and social 
lopment. .
awareness groups. social space, "It is important that Notre Dame and student involvement in Student 

close
offer leadership in this area,''· Government. 
McKenna said. Jean Powley be moderate, and if the non-unionThe forum, moderated by Hall St. Mary's Editor coal deliveries now reaching I&MPresidents' Council Chairman J.P. The conference would be a plants continue, and if we continueRussell began with short speeches weekend or four-day event, he to keep our electrical use at aroundby the candidates on their respec­stated, and would not be an expen­Saint Mary's has "a very good a SO percent level."
tive platforms. sive drain on Student Government chance of staying in session until "We are attempting to keep theThe resurrection of a course monies. The major costs involved Friday, March 17, the beginning of college open as long as possible,evaluation booklet was mentioned spring break,'' college President realizing that you are living within both Blanco's and McKenna's 
John M. Duggan stated in a letter uncertainty and anxiety. It is to ourplatforms. McKenna advocated a distributed to St. Mary's students, advantage to do so because any
totally comprehensive booklet, 
faculty and administrators yester­missed class days will have to bebased on booklets written by the 
day. made up after spring break."
Scholastic as far back as 1971. His "I appreciate how disconcertingversion of the project would include Indiana and Michigan Electric it is for you to live with suchevaluation of the course. mention Company (I&M) officials notified uncertainty, and I am sorry forreading lists. and make "candid the college Tuesday that it will be that. I do want each of you to know,
" ..
comments on pro.essors. 
at least ten days to two weeks however, how much I appreciateMcKenna said the booklet would before they reach a 30-day supply your willingness to make sacrificescost about $3,000. with funds of coal. Duggan said he felt sure and to maintain that spirit forcoming from Student Government that the college would remain which Saint Mary's is famous,"and possibly from the administra­open, ''if the weather continues to Duggan's letter concluded.
tion. He stated it would be writtetJ by the Scholastic staff with help from Student Government person­By CLC nel. The undertaking would be a major one. he stressed and the be ,kJet would probably not be available until next fall. 

Keg motion rejected
The Blanco ticket's plan for a professor-course evaluation booklet by Bob Varettoni Luchini, ~tude.nt Governmentis less ambitious. according to Senior Staff Reporter representatiVe, dtsagreed.
Ewing. She proposed that tht' 
"The Observer has become !oo 
booklet be a combination of the The Campus Life Committee independant, and not as responstve
teacher evaluations filled out by (CLC) last night voted down a to the students as it should be,"
students at the end of semesters resolution recommending that Luchini claimed. "I'd rather see th and course evaluations written "University directives concerning isgroupdo something about it. The primarily by professors. SBP candidate Andy McKenna alcohol be revised to omit the Observer has to be kept separate
The main difference between [middle] answers a student's section concerning kegs." 
from Student Government." 
Blanco's and McKenna's booklet question at last night's candi-Another resolution recommend­'~If the Observer can evaluate) th t Bl f date's forum. Moderator J.P.
proposa s was a anco avors a II L ing that "the University use its Student Government, why can't
· f Russe frig...tl acts as time-
selective evaluatiOn o courses k?eper. [Photo by Ken McAlpine] resources and influence to achieve Student Government evaluate the :-ather than a comprehensive one. a lowering of the drinking age in Observer," Fr. James Shilts, assis-Ewing stated that it would be too would be those for speakers, and Indiana" was passed unanimously. 
tant of physics, objected. 
expensive and take too much McKenna felt that the "University Although the keg resolution was Conyers said he is co~~erned manpower tu cover all the courses and the economics department approved by a majority vote, seven that "there is no accountabthty .for 
offered by the University. should be able to get good people" to five with one abstention, appro­the Observer. It can say anythmgHowever. she promised that a without spending too much money. val of two-thirds of the Committee 
it wants."
selective course evaluation booklet He was not sure how much money was needed to pass the resolution. 
Not~ng tha~ a student wat~hdog
covering "popular courses" could would be allocated to the confe-In the executive meeting held in commtttee mtght be bene!ict~~ to 
be ready by the end of the renee, however. Keenan Hall, Dave Bender, stu­
the. Observer, Paczesny satd, the semester. The problem of social space was dent body president, noted that the 
Observer, should not go out ofAll three candidates emphasized a concern shared by all three first resolution was designed to 
some commitment to ·increasing candidates. Blanco called for leave discretion up to rectors about 
social awareness on campus. researching the possibility of build-the keg policies in their halls. 
Schlageter said his ticket would ing a second student center, to In the discussion that preceeded 
give "visible leadership support" supplement Lafortune. The new the vote, Fr. Eugene Gorski, rector 
as well as publicity and increased center would include bowling of Howard Hall, said, "I want 
funds to social concern groups such alleys, a disco, and a sporting home rule. I want the discretion of 
as CILA, Neighborhood Roots, and goods store. Blanco said it might having this or not having this." 
the Committee for Education on be located in the old Fieldhouse, the Fr. Richard Conyers, rector of Social Justice. He declined to give basement ofthe Engineerng adddi-Keenan Hall, disagreed "this any specific figures on how much tion under construction· or in the would put a lot of pressure on me . money he was willing to allocate to field west of campus, bordering personally if I still prohibit kegs in such groups, saying that would be U.S. Route 31. Keenan. 1 feel very strongly that decided when next year's budget is For social space on the hall level, this resolution should be 
made. Blanco called for a comprehensive defeated." 
Blanco also supported social hall to hall plan to be drawn up by •'There has to be some kind of 
concern groups, but he additonally hall councils. The social space administrative consistency," Sarah 
advocated the creation of a Univer-proposals in each hall would then Daugherty, assistant professor of 
sity Employee Advocacy Council. be funded on a basis of matching English, noted. "This proposal 
The council would be composed of funds, with the halls paying for half might give privileges to some 
representatives form the adminis-and the University matching the students, and deny that same 
tration, the faculty, the student funds. privilege to others." 
body and University employees Schlageter's ticket also proposed The second resolution passed 
from all sectors. a comprehensive campus-wide without discussion. Bro. Just 
The council would function as social space plan, with individual Paczesny, vice president for Stu­
"a clearinghouse where everybody halls each planning space use for dent Affairs, accepted it. He said 
could get together and discuss themselves. Rizzo said the project he would take the recommendation 
problems like those of the grounds-would be co-ordinated through the to University General Counsel 
keepers," Ewing explained. The Campus Life Council, but that it Philip Faccenda. 
body would serve primarily as an was important "that every hall Bender also introduced a discus­
. . should have input on how the sian on the Observer. "I want it Chief of the Observer last night by
see re1area money for social space is spent." know what the CLC thinks is the a majority vote of the editorial McKenna's ticket focused on responsibility of the Observer to 
board, production representatives
articles: improving social life, more than the students and to the commu-and the business manager.specifically on sociaJ space. nity," he said. 
Pace, a junor general programRoohan stated that the Student Sr. Vivian Whitehead, rector of
page 3, Economics double major from 
Government Board of Commis-Breen-Phillips Hall, said she felt Summit, NJ, defeated two other sioners would give a higher priority Student Government, not the CLC, candidates for the position whith
page 11 

L ______.:~~~~2!~~~1~1:!1J should discuss this issue. Gary he will assume March 29, 1978.. 


.,, 

Tony Pace was elected Editor-in­
existence. We need it, it's o~~ of the best things we have here. 
Paczesny added that the Obser­ver is an independent newspaper, and not subject to Student Govern­ment control. 
The CLC unanimously passed two other resolutions last night. One, introduced by Conyers, recomended that the CLC "vote to applaud and endorse Alcohol Awareness Week.'' 
"I don't think we have a mature attitude toward alcohol at this University,'' Conyers said. 
The final resolution to pass was a proposal that "a campus-wide sur­vey be taken to help evaluate some aspects of residential lif~, presently existing at Notre Dame. 
This survey, composed by the 
[continued on page 11] 
Pace 
elected 


Editor­
•
1n­
Chief 

Pace now serves as the Features Editor and has previously served as staff reporter, sports writer and sports layout person. 
As Editor-in-Chief, Pace plans to make recruitment his primary task. 
"If we attract quality people, we :an publish a quality newspaper," Pace stated. 

Thursday, March 2, 1978

2 the observer 
,_..News Briefs-------.. 
~==================~========World 
USSR to open up Siberia 
URAL, U.S.S.R.·· The Soviet Union is building a 2,000-mile railroad. 
across seven mountain ranges and vast stretches of permafrost in 
northern Siberia that in the next few years will open up one of the 
world's richest regions in natural resources. The project to open up 
Siberia's mineral wealth was launced in 1974 and is now targeted to 
go into full operation in 1985. 
t==:=============::=:==::~==::::::::====~ National 
Cover boy .for Seventeen? 
NEWARK, N.J••• Will 18-year-old Donald McLean's face do for Seventeen magazine what Burt Reynolds' body did for Cosmopo· Utan? Seventeen's six million readers will get a chance to ponder that question for themselves this month as they gaze at the first cover boy in the magazine's 33-year history. 

. . .
-.-~ ~ ... . . . .
.. ... ..... .. .. .
. . ~ . .. 

. _......·. .......·.. .. . . .. : ...
Weather .. . . ." .. '. .. 
A winter storm watch for this afternoon and tonight. Increasing cloudiness today with snow beginning this afternoon and ending tomorrow morning. There is a 50 percent chance of snow today and a 60 percent chance of snow, possibly heavy, tonight. Highs today' 25 to 30 and lows ten to 15. Cloudy and windy tomorrow wiht highs in the low 20s. 
~On Campus Today-~ 
8 am· 5 pm 
8:30am­5 pm 
12:15 pm 
3 & 7 pm 
4 pm 
6:30p.m. 
7:30pm 
7:30 & 8:30pm 
8 pm 
8 pm 
9-11 pm 
friday 
12:15 pm 

art exhibit, holly howard and lynda halley, weaving, sculpture, painting and drawing, isis gallery, old fieldhouse. 
peace corps/vista revruitment drive, mem. lib. concourse. 
mass, celebrated by fr. griffin, Iafortune basement. 
film, "harlan county," sponsored by center for experiential learning, eng. aud., free admission, also march 3 & 4. 
seminar, "laser raman & fluroescence of radicals & radical ions," by dr. s-j. sheng, sponsored by the radiation lab., rad. lab. conference rm., public invited. 
workshop, neighborhood study group tu­toring, sponsored by volunteer services, lib. aud. 
lecture, by gwendolyn brooks, pulitzer prize-winning poetess, sponsored by black cultural arts committee, washington hall, free admission. 
film, "the miracle months," sponsored by nd/smc right to life, regina aud., smc, also 
10:30 pm flanner, free admission. 
duo recital, by katy elsey & ellen bussing, piano & voice, sponsored by smc music dept., smc little the;~tre. 
nd/smc theatre, "a touch of the poet," by eugene o'neill, tickets. $2.50, nd/smc community-$2, o'laughlin aud., also march 3 &4. 
nazz, performance by john pietzak, Iafor­tune basement. 
biology travelogue, "biology in australia," by richard williams, rm. 278 galvin aud., public invited. 
The Observer is published Mon. day through Friday except during exam Hd v~tion periods. Tt)e Observer Is publlsh.ct by the students of Notre Dame and S.int Marys College. Subscrlptk»ns ,..., be purchased tor 120 per year CS 1o per semester) from The Observer. P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second d ..s postage paid, Notre Dame, Indiana, 46556. 
The Observer Is • member of the Anoclat.ct Preas. All repro­duction rights are reaerved. 
--~ •.. I 
How much longer? 
Indiana endures UMWstrike 
(AP] • Unemployment caused by the United Mine Workers (UMW) strike began to level off yesterday 
as  state  officials  worried  that  a  
tentative  settlement  might  lull  
Hoosiers  into  a  false  sense  of  
security.  

The Indiana Employment Security Division reported 4,500 workers on furloughs yesterday, including some on short work weeks. That was up just 100 from Tuesday, indicating "that everyone is taking a wait-and-see attitude until the miners vote," said Charles Mazza of the division's research division. coal supplies were relatively stable, and in some areas improved. 
Southern Indiana Gas and Electric Co., serving the Evansville area in 
the heart of Indiana's coal fields, reported 23-24 percent voluntary 
conservation  and  said  its  coal  
stockpiles had gro wn to  a  SO-day  
supply.  

Northern Indiana Public Service Co. (NIPSCO), serving 345,000 customers, said it has a 60-day supply of coal, down from 67 days a week and a half ago but still well above the 40-day level that triggers mandatory power curtailments. 
NIPSCO said at a meeting sith its ten largest industrial customers yesterday that their voluntary con­servation efforts have .produced a 15 percent savings. Edmund A. Schroer, NIPSCO president and chief executive officer, said the effects of the strike and a colder­than-normal winter will mean high 
New rules to prohibit dorm improvement 
by Tim Joyce 

Included in the Notre Dame housing contracts for the 1978 school year is a new set of rules which prohibit dormitory room improvements such as wall-panel­ling, the construction of lofts and partitions, and the use of extension cords, plywood sheets and similar building materials. The rules, which are not yet a part of Du Lac, are the result of recommendation made to the University Housing Office by the ND Fire Department. 
"What we are trying to do is eliminate the really bad conditions that exist," stated Jack Bland, Notre Dame Fire Inspector. "We are not trying to create a problem where one doesn't exist, we're merely trying to correc. any prob­lems where they may exist," Bland continued. 
According to Bland, questions such as whether existing panelling will be allowed to remain on the walls, have not been decided yet. "Further work needs to be done regarding the rules and another meeting will be held to give stricter definition to the rules and to formalize them," Bland added. 
Rectors generally favor the pro­posed new rules. "I'm in favor of more control as far as rooms are concerned, because more and more problems have been allowed to exist recently," said Fr. Mario Pedi, rector of St. Ed's Hall. "I see no reason why extension cords should be prohibited, however, if they are the proper heavy duty ones," added Pedi. 
Fr. Kevin Kearney, rector of Sorin Hall, agreed with Pedi. "The 
reason for the rules is good and it's important to have some guidelines because of fire hazards. However, at the same time, the University should be doing something them­selves about improving the quality of the rooms," Kearney comment­ed. "For example, if they are going to prohibit the use of extension cords, then more safe outlets should be provided in the rooms by the University." He added, "If students are not going to be allowed to improve the rooms, and someone has to, then I feel that it is the University's job to see that electric rates. 
"Our primary obligation is to maintain continuity of service, which involves buying substantial amounts of power even though costs are very high,'' he said. "Ultimately, these increased pur­chased power expenses are passed on to customers in the form of higher electric bills." 
Three Indiana utilities have imple­mented state-ordered power cut­backs -Public Service Indiana (PSI), Indiana and Michigan Elect­ric and Hoosier Energy. 
Greenfield Mayor Keith J. Mc­Clarnon said ten of 160 commercial and industrial customers of his city's electric utility have failed to meet the 25 percent reduction ordered by PSI. 
Most of the offenders are close to the 25 percent level, but some are ''ridiculously high,'' McClarnon said, noting that one customer was found to be using twice as much electricity as last year. Neverthe­less, McClarnon said there are no plans to cut off service to the ten not complying with the order unless PSI stockpiles drop to the 30-day level. The utility has said that won't happen before the end of March. 
The big worry now is that the UMW will reject the proposed contract with the Bituminous Coal Operators Association. 
William Sorrells, director of the Indiana Energy Office, said he has no figures on whether consevation is slipping, but he added, "Psycho­logically, the people that I'm talking with and the reports we're seeing in the news media say, yes, people do feel that the strike is over. That's certainly a very false sense of security." 
Indiana miners are expected to vote on the contract Sunday. Local union leaders were briefed on the pact at UMW District 11 head­quarters in Terre Haute on Wed­nesday. District 11 President Larry Reynolds was non-committal about the contract, saying "I've looked at it, yes. It is an alternative. But the men will have to go through it and make up their minds. They'll have 
rooms are improved." to decide their own destiny. 


Aid form deadlinet•••••••••••••••••••+ 
M : Happy Hour •
1 

The deadline~! filing financial : 
aid forms is May 1. Forms are availahle at the front desk of the Financial Aid Office in the Admini-.A. stration Building. T 
All students presently receiving .._
financial aid of any type must file a I 
~~~~w!~. order to have the aid • 
*The Observer 
Night Editor: Steve Odland 
Asst.  Night  Editor:  Chris  
Slatt, Margie Brassill  
Layout Staff:  Anne Lorenz,  

Tom Monroe, Bart Corsaro, Jim Rudd, Marybeth Hano­van, Timothy F. Hamilton Features Layout! Steve Gray Sports Layout: Patrick Smith, Paul Stevenson Typists: Gwen Coleman, Stacy Weaver, Katie Brehl, Lisa DiValerio Night Controller: Mardi Nevin Day Editor: Marian Ulicny Copy Reader: Jack Pizzolato, Ann Cales Ad layout: Greg T rzupek Photographer: Ken McAlpine 
: 

Library t T
7 

• +T
1 0 .A. 
Toni·ght.. Thursday , March 2 .A. 

BUD WEISER :T 
Pitchers: $1.50 : 
+ soc for 1 hr between 7-10 + 
~ponsered by Student Union Social Commissio; 
~•••••••••••••••••••t 


.­


' 
Thursday, March 2, 1978 the observer 
3 
Remember when: 

by Marian Ulicny Senior Staff Reporter 

Once upon a time, there was a Notre Dame student who didn't want to be Study Body President. He wanted to be king. 
Claiming that the University was not yet ready for a democracy, Sophomore Bob Kersten announ­ced his candidacy to head an oligarchy on February 22, 1972. With his running mate, UnCandi­date the Cat, Kersten promised to abolish all regular student govern­ment institutions if elected and replace them with his dose friends. 
"I plan to come out unequi­vocally and indefinitely on every major issue," he stressed, adding, "I will make every command to see the students' wishes are fulfilled, · provided, of course, they should coincide with my own arbitrary desires." 
While his opponents debated the proposed merger with St. Mary's, improved student government communication, refrigerator fines, LaFortune renovation, parietals, and co-ed dorms, Kersten's plat­form took a different focus. His primary goal was replacing the SBP with a ruler known as the "Prime Movership" who would initiate a takeover of the Observer and WSND • 'in order that the Truth, the whole Truth, and nothing but the Truth would be kept from the 

Pilot retires on firey note 
LOS ANGELES [AP] -A Honolulu­bound DC-10, on a flight that was to be the pilot's last before retire ment blew two tires as it approach­ed takeoff yesterday, then tipped over and burst into flames, killing" two passengers and injuring up to SO others. 
Fire department spokesmen said the two dead -among 184 passen­gers and 14 crew members -were killed during frantic efforts to escape the burning Continental Airlines plane. They said the aircraft's burning left wing and flames leapt through the open escape hatch into the cabin. 
Continental said the pilot, Capt. Gene Hersche, was on his last flight before retirement. His 60th birthday is Friday. Hersch said it was his first accident in 37 years of flying. 
As Flight 603 approached takeoff" from Los Angeles International Airport at 9:23 am (PST), two tires blew out and a landing gear collapsed, Continental spokesman Robert Sterling said. Hersche reversed his en~ines immediately 
and veered to the left, Sterling said and the plane tipped over and caught fire. 
Witnesses said pulling the plane to the left averted what might have been a worse disaster because the disabled plane could have hit buildings on the right. 
The aircraft was taking off from west to east, a direction used only during storms because of wind changes. Southern California was lashed with heavy rain Tuesday and yesterday. 
survivor Robery Lyon, a Los Ange­les attorney, said people balked when the flames came into the cabin. 
• • A lot of people were afraid to slide down the escape chutes,'' he said. "I had to kick the woman down ahead of me." 
Passengers were taken to several nearby hospitals. Three persons were reported in critical condition. County health officials said a total of SO persons were injured. Continental spokesmen put the figure at 30. 
this friday and every friday 5 :15 mass & supper 

c: •.,npu,., 1n1n1o.,;try 

Kersten reigned 

JULIO'S presents 
Thin Crust lntroductor 
Offer 

1 

We a serve 2 types Super-Subma nes and Mouth-Watering Chicken Dinners. 
DELIVERY WITH OUR PORTABLE OVENS 
Also prominent in his platform were the following objectives: -distributing scholarships by lot­tery instead of GPA; -raising bookstore prices on popu­lar student items such as books and records to prevent inflation in the alumni market for Notre Dame beanies and buttons; -replacing Campus Security with a Grand Inquisitor's office; -recruiting Yanamamo Indians and heterosexuals to increase minority student enrollment: -installing pay toilets to alleviate the University's budget deficits; -cutting tuition and doubling room and board fees. 
Dressed in a cape and crown and gnawing an ever-J. resent cigar, Kersten cited his philosophy as providing the students with ''free­dom from the painful burden of ever having to govern themselves again.'' 
Kersten used such attention-get­ting campaign stunts as parading through the South Dining Hall to the strains of "Pomp and Circum­stance" and addressing student rallies from atop a burning waste basket on a Walsh Hall ledge. His supporters staged his kidnapping from a third floor Keenan ''water closet'' for a ransom of 27 cents, the sum in his campaign treasury. He was reportedly released after the amount was collected at a St. Mary's fund-raising dinner in his behalf. 
Kersten's antics drew mixed student reactions. While a Feb. 20 Observer editorial emphasized that 
•'the election of Bob Kersten could hurt us," the Washington-Mary­land-Virginia Club officers en­dorsed the aspiring oligarchist, stating, '• We feel Kersten will be able to restructure the Government and Student Union so they can function with an eye for the students rather than them<-elves." 
PLACF.~F.ST 


as king 
Outgoing SBP John Barkett claim­
ed, ...Bob has a refreshing sense of 
humor and knows absolutely noth­
ing about what he's getting into." 
Despite warnings denouncing him as a prankster, Kersten's student support increased. On March 3, the "joke candidate" polled a record 65 percent of the student vote to win the election. Attirbuting his victory to "Divine intervention," he planned a future coronation in Sacred Heart Church. 
Ironically, Kersten never plan­ned to be elected. Personally opposed to student activism, he conducted his campaign solely to parody student elections and de­monstrate his disrespect for stu­dent political machines. Laughing at candidates who spent hundreds of dollars on their campaigns, Kersten spent $7.27. 
"I never really intended my campaign to go so far. We wanted to satirize the election and then drop out of it," he admitted, adding, "I didn't want everyone to take student government so ser­iously. I though it was important to add a little humor to the election instead of having candidates slash­ing at each other all the time.'' 
Kersten decided to go through with the election because he cited a definite need to re-evaluate the Uniersity's view of student govern· ment. Aiming his parody at the self-centered student officials he called "poobahs," he concluded, "I had something meaningful to say and the students responded." 
Kersten served his entire term, despite initial intentions to resign. The Cat was eventually replaced by Dennis Etienne who served .SBVP. During "the King's" reign. th~ student Senate ratified a new student government which disman­tled the Senate and replaced it with a Board of Commisioners as the government's legislative branch. 
Bt'RF:\t' }..)."' 

Evm if no one ele 
wan~ you, 
SENIOR BAR~ 


CTION • 
Bring in those letters for a I e 
IDA 

3 MARCH 


----------------------~­
the observer Thursday, March 2, -· .. 1978 ­
Administration stiffens stand on
Abortion benefits refuted 
negotiation of new arms treaty
for the working woman 
Checks will be deposited with the registrar of the student's school to
Exhibition an:l Sale of 
be credited to the winner at the time of reenrollment. Entries for the competition are
Original Oriental Art in 
available by writing John Ahl­hauser, NPPA Scholarship Chair­man. 111 Meadowbrook, Bloom­
LaFortune Ballroom 
;\\'ASHINGTON [AP] -The House Education and Labor Committee voted 19 to 12 today to allow employers to refuse to extend disability benefits to women em­ployees who have abortions. 
Rep. Robin Beard (D-R.I.), spon­sor of the amendment,. said his amendment would give companies the choice of notpaying for benefits such as abortion that they don't believe in. 
Employers could exclude abortion from a health benefits and sick leave plan except where the life of the mother might be endangered if the fetus were carried to term. 
Rep. Frank Thompson Jr. (D­N.J.) said the debate on abortion was totally ext;aneous to the bill, 
American cruise missile. Differences over the three weap­. ons systems are considered the
Alumnae visit for Weekend 
major obstacle to completing an 
agreement that President Carter 
The first Women's Alumnae Library Auditorium on Saturday predicted last October "would be Weekend will be held this Saturday from 1 to 5 p.m. On Sunday at ready within a few weeks.'' and Sunday. Sponsored by the 12:15 p.m., there will be a brunch Sin"e then, the negotiations to­Women's Advisory Council, the in the faculty dining room of the ward a new Strategic Arms Limita­event offers a chance for Notre South Dining Hall. tion Treaty have slowed down. Dame women to talk to alumae i The Kremlin last Friday expressed about careers and decisions that Tickets for the brunch are limit­deep concern over lack ofprogress must be made regarding the ed, and are available from each progress and. insisted in a sharply balance of careers and families. dormitory's representative to the worded statement that Washington 
council. All NO women are invited accept major restrictions on theA panel discussion and informal to attend the seminar on Saturday. cruise missle and other U.S. wea­talk will be held in the Memorial 
1luscbj Marth .2 
at the NAZZ 
Frihj Marth 3 
1132 S. Bend Ave 289-0639 
urs march 16 ONLY With every mug purchased 25' off any dinner 
St. Patrick's Day 
Happy Hour Prices 
ALL NIGHT 
Pitchers 150 Glasses 
WASHINGTON (AP)-The ad­
which would override a Supreme 
ministration stiffened its stand on a 
Court decision in late 1976 that said 
new nuclear arms treaty yesterday, 
companies do not violate sex 
warning the Russians against inter­
discrimination bans if they refused 
ference in Africa and ruling out 
to offer pregnancy disability bene­
major American concessions in the 
fits along with other sick leave 
ongoing negotiations. 

benefits. 
The warning came from Zbig­
Thompson said many anti-abort­
niew Brzezinski, the U.S. national 
ion lobbyists, such as the American 
security adviser, who said, "un­
Citizens Concerned for Life, have. 
warranted intrusion" into conflict 
asked that no amendments be pu~ 
between Ethiopia and Somalia 
on the bill itself as encouraging' 
would complicate efforts to work 
women through sick leave benefits 
out a new U.S. Soviet arms treaty 
to carry their fetuses to tern1. 
and to get it ratified by the Senate. 
Rep. Paul Simon (D-Ill.) said he 
He also told reporters at a White 
favored the amendment because it 
House breakfast that the United 
would protect the rights of minor­
States had nearly reached its limit 
ities • in this case the Catholic 
in making concessions on intercon­
school that does not want to pay for 
tinental ballistic missiles, long­
abortions for thier employees. 
range bombers and the low-flying 

LEE'S Bar-B-Que Miller Brewing and Dillon Hall Present 
ST· PATRICK'S 
DAY 


Thursday March 16, 1978 1st Keg is on us! 
Open early at 4 till ?• 
pons systems. The Russians, in an informal 
Brzezinski said yesterday the alliance with Cuba, have provided administration had set specific weapons and technical military aid standards on how far it was to Ethiopia's Marxist government. prepared to compromise with the According ~o U.S. intelligence es­Russians and that "Here is no point timates there are about 1,000 in signing an agreement that Russian advisers in Ethiopia along doesn't meet those standards." with 10,000 to 11,000 Cuban 
His warning on Africa is the first troops. by an administration official direct­This aid permitted Ethiopia to ly linking progress on arms control repel an attack from Somalia over to Soviet behavior on the Horn of the disputed Ogaden region and to Africa. drive the invaders back toward 
"We are not imposing any. their border. • linkages," Brzezinski said, "but The United-States has urged the linkages may be imposed by un­Russians to support efforts to warranted exploitation of local arrange a cease-fire and to per­conflict for larger international suade Ethiopia not to cross the purposes." border. 

Contest scheduled for photographically inclined 
Undergraduate college students photographs in communication and who are photographers or picture must intend to pursue a career in editors are invited to compete in journalism. Deadline for the the annual Joseph Ehrenreich competition is April 1. National Press Photographers The selection of two winners and Association Scholarship for 1978, in two alternates will be made in May which two $500 scholarship prizes by a committee that will include a will be awarded. working news photographer, a 
Applicants in the competition picture editor and photo-journalism need not be journalism majors but instructor. Should the two winners must show aptitude and potential not qualify or not enroll for the in the making of or the use of following school year' the award 
will go to the first alternate. 
ington, IN 47401. This scholarship prize that
Ibm -7pn 

honors Joseph Ehrenreich, founder of Ehrenreich Photo-Optical Indus­
tries, Inc., Garden City, NY , has been provided by his widow, Amelia Ehrenreich. 
khn -5pm 

The gold vein is here 
-· ::::.-­
Miller Gold Vein BEER PLUS MUG $1 
Miller Rep will be here giving away 
t-shirts 
novelties 
paraphernalia 




. 
.. 


Many students will be heading for the sand, seagulls, and surf in only a few short weeks! [Photo by Ken McAlpine] 
In Russia • 
Food prices skyrocketing 
MOSCOW [AP) • Soviet shop­pers carne out in droves yesterday after the nation's biggest retail price changes in years, wincing at sharp increases for gasoline and coffee but scooping up expensive items that suddenly appeared after months of scarcity. 
Prices fell by state decree on other goods. 
The cost of fabrics, some cloth­ing, refrigerators, footwear and detergent declined by 15 to 30 percent. The price of a black-and­white televison, now spurned by 
Ombudsman announces Operation Brainstorm 
Operation Brainstorm, an ideas contest sponsored by the Ombuds­man Service, will be held again this year, according to Tom Behney, chairman of the project. "We mainly want to try to get people to think of ways to improve Notre Dame," Behney stated. 
The contest runs from March 6 through March 15, and is open to all students. This Monday, stu­dents will receive a list of rules and an entry blank in the mail. 
Entries will be judged on their practicality aftd originality. During the first week of the contest, entry blanks should bt: deposited in 

~------------------------~ 
A Touch of the Poet Eugene O'Neill's search for his roots. Feb., 24,25 Mar. 2,3,4 at 8
SMC
THE AT R E All seats $2.50 Phone: 
$2 std-fac-staff 284-4176 Olaughlin Aud. 
"/ HAVE CALLED YOU BY YOUR NAML" 
Brothers of Holy Cross 
Responding through educational, health, social, pastoral and other ser­vice ministries. 
Br. Thomas Maddix, CSC 

Box 308, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
many Soviets in favor of color, dropped 20 percent to $425. 
A Moscow-based Western specialist on the Soviet economy said demand for some of these goods had slackened, and the decreases appeared aimed at clear­ing out excess inventories. 
Many shoppers said they sus­pected stores had held up supplies of other goods until the price increases came into effect, although officials denied it. Fresh coffee, which had been nearly unobtainable for months at $2,86 
boxes located in the La Fortune Lobby and the Ombudsman office. Tables will be set up in the dining halls on March 13 through 15. 
Winners will be announced March 30. First prize is $50 or a dinner for two at Mott's Apple Core, with transportation provided by the University limousine. Second prize is $25, and Third is $15. 
"We're hoping it will be really successful," Behney said. "This is the kind of thing everyone always talks about. This will give them a chance to do something," he noted. 
per pound was suddenly plentiful at $12.70. One candy store was selling high-quality chocolates that had been out of stock for weeks at $5.09 a pound, up from $4.13. 
Many people bought coffee despite the new prices, as well as gold jewelry that had risen in price by 60 percent. 
''It was cheap before, but there wasn't any selection," said a customer at a major jewelry shop as shoppers pushed toward counters and policemen patrolled the crowd. 
One of the biggest price rises was for gasoline, which doubled in cost to 93 cents a gallon. The few Russians who own private auto­mobiles also will have to pay 35 percent more now for repairs and spare parts. 
Chairman Nikolai T. Glushkov of the State Price Committee, which sets most prices in the government­controlled Soviet economy, told a news conference that gasoline had been sold at "giveaway" prices 
formerly.  He  said  it  now  costs  
twice  as  much  to  produce Soviet  
petroleum.  

Thursday, March 2, 19:....:.78~----~th~e:......=Ob:..::!s~e=rv~e=r__...-,5 
UMW leaders urge contract settlement 
(AP) • Miners streamed by the • Over three years, it would raise hundreds into meetings throughout wages by a maximum $2.40 an the nation's coal country yesterday hour over the current average of to hear-and sometimes denounce-$7.80 an hour. It would guarantet: the details of a contract that could health and pension benefits ­end their 86-day strike. currently suspended because wild-
Over television and radio, United cat strikes and the current strike Mine Workers (UMW) president have halted contributions to the Arnold Miller and other· leaders funds that support them, and urged ratification when members because inflation has also depleted vote this weekend. them. 
District leaders took to podiums in But the health plan would also union halls and civic auditoriums to make miners pay part of the cost of brief local leaders and rank-and-some treatments that were free file members in such states as before, and it would be company­West Virginia, Ohio, Illinois, Ind· run rather than operated by io­iana and Colorado. dependent trustees. as it has been. 
But the contract was meeting The pact would also allow com-resistance in some areas with panies to penalize leaders of wild­certain regional and local leaders cat strikes and those who man among the most vocal opponents. wildcat picket lines. 
Some miners, however, said they The long strike has depleted coal wanted to return to work. stockpiles in a number of states In District 17 in southern West near the Appalachian coalfields. Virginia -the largest and often More than 4,000 layoffs have been most rebellious UMW district with prompted by power cutbacks in more than 25,000 of the union's Indiana, and industrial customers 
160.000 striking miners-the scene of two West Virginia utilities had was the Madison, W.Va., Civic been scheduled to undergo 30 Center, jammed with about 1,000 percent cutbacks today . UMW members. However, West Virginia officials 
"The health and retirement sec-suspended the curtailment yester­tion caused the biggest fuss," said day, saying they· will reconsider Mandy Cabell Jr., a miner from after the UMW vote is known. camp Creek, W.Va. Some locals vote as early as 
In Washington, however, Presi-tomorrow, others as late as Moo­dent Carter said he has "Good day. hope" for ratification, and Labor Meanwhile, UMW leaders began Secretary Ray Marshall said, "It's their broadcast campaign Tuesday looking favorable." night. 
The proposed contract was agreed ''My name is Arnold Miller,'' one on by negotiators for the union and ad began. "The highlights of the the Bituminous Coal Operators new 1978 contract are the health Association last Friday, just before and retirement benefits that are President Carter was set to an-restored and guaranteed... It's the nounce steps to end the strike. first time in the history of this 
union that we've.ever had guaran­teed benefits. And the wages, I
Photo· exhibition 
think, are very substantial, equal to visits Art Gallery and better than any other labor union contract that's been nego­
During the month of March, the tiated in the last couple of years." University of Notre Dame Art Country singer Johnny Paycheck, Gallery will present an exhibition of whose recording, "You Can Take photographs by W. Eugene Smith. This Job and Shove It" is a hit in This travelling exhibition, organ­coal country, taped an ad for use ized by the International Museum Saturday. "Give your hand to of Photography at George Eastman somebody, help him when he's House, includes 24 original photo­down," he sings. Then he speaks graphs made between 1944 and to the miners: 1962. "Nobody has to tell my coal 
Born in 1918, Smith began his mining buddies this coal strike has career in photo-journalism as a been a long tough drag. But there teen-ager during the Depression comes a time when we must settle and worked as a war correspondent our differences and get back to the during World War II. He later real job." worked for such magazines as Life Other commercials include pleas and Newsweek and did free-lance by UMW Vice President Sam work, completing a number of Church; Kenneth Dawes, president independent photographic essays. of the Illinois UMW district; Herb­
The Notre Dame Gallery in ert Killam, a member of the O'Shaughnessy Hall is open week­union's International Executive days from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. and Board from Indiana; and Joe Duffy, weekends from 1 p.m. to 5 p.m. secretary-treasurer of District 17. 

Thursday, March 2, 1978
6 

the observer 




t 
~ 
I 
I 
~ 
I
'I 

;~,'l 


........
" 1 
~ ,, 
·~ 
!i 
.i. 


Many students and even faculty, believe functional weavings. The exhibit whicl 
it or not, have not yet realized that there is was designed and hung by the artist 
an Art Gallery on campus. Fewer still themselves is fresh, open and bright. Th1 
know about a second Gallery on campus. works are well placed and demonstrate th1 
The University gallery with its utility and beauty of the Soho-esqUI collection of close to 7.000 objects and gallery. The gallery with its stark whit1 paintings is located in O'Shaughnessy walls and open space and high ceiling: Hall. The other gallery without its own allow the works to be seen in a wa~ collection is located within the old Field complimentary to the works. House, sight of past athletic triumphs and countless pep raJlies, and now the happy The graphic works of Halley include ; home of the Art Department and students. rather wide range of media and subject. A As you enter the Field House through the the entrance to the gallery are a long serie: Huddle side door, there is no danger that of monoprints of· varying quality. Mis: the place will crumble around you in spite Halley seems to understand the monopnn of appearances. You turn to the left and technique, but only a few of these print: about fifty feet ahead is the sign Isis are realy striking. The figure of a mat Gallery. Within are brightly whitewashed standing between two chairs is a composi walls. only slightly stained due to the tion that works. The soft and hazy colon 
problem of an old and decaying roof. Isis take on a monochromatic feeling and th< Gallery is operated by students and for work becomes very much a print. Some o students and has been an integral part of the portraits, on the other hand, ignore th< the University Art Department activities print quality and become paintings or for the past seven years. While a paper. There are also several drawing! permanent collection of works, proven which, while indicating fine ability and < 
important by history, are vital to the art good eye, are too much of the classroorr student, perhaps far more significant is the exercise and do not hold up in their presen place where the unproven works of young company. There is a drawing of a group o· and new artists are displayed. Isis is this people, possibly inspired by an ole place at Notre Dame. Isis is open at photograph which is exactly the sort ol irregular hours. but almost always avail­work which is good for developing the ey( able to an interested viewer. and hand, but which finally is too academi< 
to last or to be publicly presented. 
Presently showing is an exhibit by Lynda Halley's strongest works, anc graduate students, Lynda Halley and Holly these show great sensitivity, are twc Howard. Halley's works are on paper or paintings. one a line of brightly patternec canvas while Howard's are sculpture or shirts on hangers, the other, three glasse~ 
text by Reu. Richard Conyers photos by Ken McAlpine 


on a red background. In these paintings there is the monumentalizing close-up view which requires exactness and even exag­geration of color and texture. While coming close to super realism, these two paintings retain a sense of composition and design which is often disregarded in the slick, air brush technique of the super or photorealists. ·Color and pattern play on the surface of the canvas, well showing that the rigors of academic drawing and the discipline of print making have been assimilated by this young artist who seems her best with paint and canvas. 
The craft of weaving has to be one of the oldest and most fundamental of the crafts, with only fire building and whcll wrighting being more basic. Weaving dates back in history to the immediate post fig leaf Eden days. There is the beautiful image from one of the Sapiential Books of the Old Testament of the faithful woman sitting at the city gate weaving double thick snug­gies for her family. There is the celebrated historical narrative of the Bayeux tapestry. There are the magnificent Raphael car­toons of the Victoria and Albert Museum which were carefully translated into woven masterpieces. In more contemporary experience there are the functional as well as decorative weavings of the American Indian. Holly Howard continues as a master of this craft, combining skill and an artist's eye to produce beautiful as well as useful works. 
Howard prepares and dyes her own 
threads, thus gaining a wonderful control 
over color. The earth tones and subtle 
blend of hues pull each weaving together 
into an intricate (at times, perhaps, too 
detailed) composition. One of the most 
difficult parts of weaving would seem to be 
to maintain a tight but even tension over a 
large area. From this point of view, no 
complaint is possible. The even quality of 
the weaving and the beautiful design along 
with the rich but subtle color selection 
demonstrate the highly developed skill and 
the sensitivity of this artist. 
Artist and not just craftsman is what Ms.. Howard is. There is a second aspect to her exhibit -in the form of non-functional composition, either soft sculptured wall hangings, or cloth and plexiglass sculp­tures. Again. color choice and technical skill are demonstrations of the superior quality of the artistry. More important, these dimensional objects indicate that Ms. Howard is very much the artist capable of good, sensitive as well as beautiful, works of both function and fancy. 
Isis Gallery might be frequently over­looked, and unknown to many. But then so are the galleries of Soho and the garrets of the Village. The Met or a Pitti Palace they are not. But few artists start careers in these esteemed places. Isis is the place at Notre Dame to see those works which in years to come wiii be the proven works of history. Halley and Howard are good artists and might even end up as great artists. At Isis each of us can be a part of a possible great discovery. 
.. 
Thursday, March 2, 1978 
the observer 



' 

I I I I 
~ 
I 
1 
~ 




+A ere lS 
FI ft[: 
l)t-he.afa.;m is on +h f-loor by f-Ae R.ec.fres81 f'bO'M. A-J<.e.y is ne.e.d ed i-o i 1-0 n; So co n. f C4 ~~­
or f-J.. e f2e_ c i-ress 
;;.) Ca.ll fA e.. IV~ lJ. i"·r,_ alar rn is nof tannec ·Ht. f i f" t::. s,.JtJ..J!t<;li),# 
·,.,,.,,,,,,,,._.,,,&,~ 
Pilgrimmage to aid handicapped 
by John Cassidy 

The Friends of L' Arch, a world­wide organization helping the mentally ill, have planned and organized a pilgrimmage to Notre Dame during the Holy Week, March 22 to 26. The pilgrimmage wtll celebrate the liturgy of the Pass­over. 
The Friends of L' Arch aid the handicapped by setting up homes where, according to a local spokes­man, June Kramer, "they can live a relatively normal family life rather than an institutionalized existence.'' These homes, first opened in France by Jean Vanier, the group's founder, have also been organized throughout Europe, India, South America, the United States and Canada. 
Dan Ryan. a Notre Dame gradu­
(]SCOTTSDALE 

ate who received his Masters in psychology from Indiana University at South Bend, organized the pilgrimmage. Ryan presently works in L'Arche's largest home in North America, located in Rich­mond Hill, Ontario, near Toronto. He will be at Notre Dame to participate in the pilgrimage. 
Ryan was the first house parent in the South Bend area. He became a counselor for the retard­ed three years ago while living in the Notre Dame apartments. 
Although a permanent commu­nity for L'Arche has not been settled in South Bend, a house has been donated to L'Arch by Project Renewal through the efforts of Father Meilly of Christ the King Church. The Friends of L' Arch do not want to open the house until they have found some members of the organization to live in the house 
~RIVER PARK 
permanently. 

In the meantime, the Friends will sponsor events such as tne pilgrimage to Notre Dame. Attend­ing the pilgrimage are approxi­mately 15 assistants from homes in Canada, Pennsylvania, Iowa and Alabama who volunteer their ser­vices to the handicapped while holding down outside work. They will be accompanied by 15 of the mentally ill. 
On Holy Thursday, a Passover meal will be celebrated, and on Saturday there will be a reunion at Logan Center for the Friends of L'Arche. 
All meals will be furnished by various groups interested in L' Arche, including: Sacred Heart Church of Bethany, the Little Flower Parish, and St. Joe's High. School. The group will be staying at Moreau Seminary. 

~ TOWN &COUNTRY 1&2 
Town & Country Shopping Center Telephone 259-9090 
2 

• 
IS 
.-;···. 
r_(:.: 
(')\ 
"':-=· 

.. .~ ,, ..' ..
-~ ~· 
1:45 3:45 5 :45 7:45 9:45 

With all the talk of fire alarms, many lyons residents hav~ .become wary about 
their alarm system. 
Their  sign  tells  the  
story.  [Photos  by  
Ken McAlpine]  

CAC plans housingfor Commencement 
Students graduating in May, 
. 1978, and their parents have been sent packets of information concerning Commencement Week­end accommodations as well as meal service for relatives and friends of graduates. The Commencement Accomoda­tions Committee (CAC), whose office is located in the Center for Continuing Education, mailed the packets separately to parents and prospective graduates early this week. The packet sent to parents includes a cover letter of pertinent information, an application form for on-campus housing and meals, and a tentative schedule of Com­mencement Weekend activities. The CAC emphasizes in both letters that all requests for rooms or meals must come from the parents on the forms sent to them, 
One dead after storm drenches California 
LOS ANGELES [AP] • A wind­whipped Pacific rainstorm drench­ed an already soggy Southern California yesterday causing one death, knocking down trees and power lines, closing roads, damag­ing houses and forcing the evacua­tion of at least a dozen people. 
But the storm, which was expect­ed to taper off to showers later in 
Wyrough talks on canal treaty 

One of America's top authorities on the Panama Canal treaty, Richard R. Wyrough, will discuss the current negotiations during a public talk at 4 p.m. friday in the Law School Lounge. Wyrough, a foreign service officer in the Department of State, presently serves as senior advisor to Ambas­sador Ellsworth Bunker and deputy director for treaty affairs in the Office of Panamanian Affairs. 
W yrough holds degrees in his­tory, engineering and business administration from Georgetown University, United States Military Academy and George Washington University. At the time of his military retirement in 1974 he was serving as dean of administration of the Industrial College of the Armed Forces. 
Earlier he held various command and staff positions in combat and overseas, including service in Viet Nam, Korea and Germany. He has also served with various senior military staffs specializing in poli­tical-military and national security affairs, and has written articles in related fields while serving as a professor of diplomatic history. 
Wyrough's appearance is spon­sored by the Law School and is open to the public. 
not from graduating students. 

Because parents and relatives of graduating seniors will be housed in Notre Dame's residence halls for Commencement Weekend, under­graduates have been reminded in a letter from the Office of Student Affairs that rooms must be vacated no later than noon, May 17. 
Only those students who are members of campus organizations needed for Commencement Week­end activities or who have a brother, sister or fiance( e) graduat­ing will be allowed to remain in their rooms after May 17. 
Students whose brother, sister or fiance(e) is graduating should contact in writing the CAC in the Center for Continuing Education by March 10, requesting permission to stay in their rooms through Commencement Weekend. 
the day, didn't live up to fears that 
it might duplicate the disastrous 
flooding of three weeks ago. 

Officials were closely watching the saturated residential canyon areas around the city, where most of last month's flooding occurred. 
Los Angeles police reported three hillside houses in the exclu­sive Encino section of the San Fernando Valley were slipping into adjacent backyards. The residents were evacuated and there were no injuries. 
The city received almost three inches of rain in the storm and more than four inches fell in some parts of Southern California. The latest storm brought the sesonal total to almost 24 inches, compared to 7.38 inches during the drought last year. The normal rainfall for this time of year is 10.43 inches. 
Mudslides closed or partially blocked at least 17 roads, including all but one lane of the heavily used Pacific Coast Highway and two southbound lanes of Interstate 5, the main artery between Los Angeles and Northern California. Travelers warnings were issued for mountain and canyon roads due to high winds, slippery pavement and poor visibility. 
A motorist blinded by a heavy blast of rain collided with a young motorcyclist in the City of Industry, killing 17-year-old Stephen Mul­herin. The motorist was not injured. 
A spokesman for Southern Cali­fornia Edison estimated that power outages due to more than 100 downed or storm-damaged lines affected up to 100,000 customers by dawn. Hardest hit areas were in Long Beach, Palos Verdes, Carson and Del Amo, he added. 
F~u responsible 

for absenteeism 
INDIANAPOUS [AP] -A flu virus that has caused substantial increases in absenteeism among school children is approaching its peak in Indiana, a State Board of Health official said yesterday. 
Dr. Charles Barrett, director of the board's comunicable disease division, said the Russian flu strain has not been confirmed by labora­tory tests. But he said he is reasonably certain the AUSSR virus is responsible for 25-30 percent absentee rates among students in Indianapolis, Evansville Terre Haute and Lafayette. 
The virus affects persons under 25 almost exclusi'(ely, Barrett said. Symptoms of the ~train are mild to moderate and it does not affect an age group with a high percentage of high risk patients, Barrett added. He said it should be near the peak in its estimated month-long spread through the state . 



Rigid dieting m·ight not help 
MEMPHIS• Tenn. (AP)-A Memphis State University psycho­logist who doesn't have to worry about gaining weight has news for people who do. 
All those theories about fat people being that way because they eat more or gobble their food aren't necessarily accurate, Dr. Andrew Meyers says. 
Meyers, 29, has studied obesity and its causes for almost five years, first under Dr. Albert Stunkar at Stunkard at the University of Pennsylvania in Philadelphia and, since 1976, at Memphis State. 
A slender man often mistaken for a student, Meyers sat in his tiny office recently and talked about his profession's record for treating 
obesity  -a  term  he  prefers  to  
''fat."  
"We  could  almost  never  get  

people to take weight off," he said. 
"If they did, they didn't keep it off.'' 
At Pennsylvania, Stunkard exam ined assumptions about obesity to see how fat people differed from thin. One study involved more than 5,500 subjects at six Philadel­
Swim-a-thon fights cancer 

The Notre Dame Circle K Club, in cooperation with the American Cancer Society, will sponsor the second annual Swim-Against­Cancer on Sunday, March 12, at the Rockne Memorial pool. Last year's swim-a-thon raised more than $1100 for the fight against cancer. 
Those interested in participating should pick up a sponsor sheet at the Rockne Memorial or contact Circle K President Dave Krasovec at 3245 or 3241. 
Copier to be tardy 
Student Union has announced that the copy machine scheduled to be installed in LaFortune Student Center last month, will not be installed until March 29. 
need resumes in a hurry? 


• • I
•nsly·pr1nts 
the wiz of the printing biz! 

r~g bond 2 5 -8 1/2 X 1 1 $2.65 203 N. Mam So ~nd 289-697 

SCOTTSDALE MALL FREE!!! 

Soft drink with 3 items e TACOS •eAB1 TACQ 
• 
IIRRITOS • TAIALIS 

• 
E•elllADAS • TACO tOC 

• 
TO$fADOS • IJA• TAC6 • 8AR8EQ~E TACO 

• 
SPAIIISI •ot 008 

• 
CIEfSEBIRCER "We carry a line of 




egetariiln Foods. 


phia restaurants. Teams kept track of customers' food choices to see whether overweight persons ate more food, particularly fattening foods. 
"In general," Meyers said, "we couldn't find any difference." Then researchers watched cus­tomers eating -counting bites, 
sips, chews  and  17 other eating  
behaviors.  
"Still  no  difference,"  Meyer  

said. ''The basic assumption was that if you're fat, you eat faster, but it didn't hold up." 
In a third study, reseachers found the percentage of overweight custmp.ers doubled on buffet or smorgasboard nights. ''That says maybe some of our traditional evidence is holding,'' the psycholo­gist said. ''Btit a lot of our basic assumptions are shakey.'' 
Meyers said research shows some overweight persons may ben­efit more from a daily walk than from a drastic diet. Though study is a long way from complete, Meyers said, it suggests the most effective way to reduce may be through slight changes in exercise. 
EARN OVERs650AMONTH 
RIGHT THROUGH YOUR 
SENIOR 


If you're a junior or a senior majoring in math, physics or engineering, the Navy has a program yoU: should know about. 
It's called the Nuclear Propulsion Officer Candidate­Collegiate Program ~NUPOC-C for short) and if you qualify, you can earn as much as $650 a month right through your senior year. Then after 16 weeks of Officer Candidate School, you'll receive an additional year of advanced technical education. This would cost you thousands in a civilian school, but in the Navy, we pay you. And at the end of the _rear of training, you'll receive a $3,000 cash bonus. 
It isn't easy. There are fewer than 400 openings and only or_ 1f every six applicants will be selected. But if you make it, you'll have qualified for an elite engineering training program. With unequaled hands-on responsibility, a $24,000 salary in four years, and gilt-edged qualifications for jobs in private industry should you decide to leave the Na.vy later. (But we don't think you'll want to.) 
Ask your placement officer to set up an interview with a Navy representative when he visits the campus on: March 8, or contact your Navy representative at 312-657-2169 (collect). If you prefer, send your resume to the Navy Nuclear Officer Program, Code 312-B468, 4015 Wilson Blvd., Arlington, Va. 22203, and a Navy representative will contact you directly. The NUPOC-Collegiate Program. It can do more than help youfinish college: it can lead to an exciting career opportunity. 
NAVYOFFICER. IT'S NOTJUSTAJOB, IT'S AN ADVENTURE. 
L---------------------~-~-----------------------------------------------------------­
"Obese people throw up their hands and say they don't want to get into jogging or playing three sets of tennis a day," he said. "We're not talking about that. We're talking about making a slight change ... designing indivi­dual activity programs just slightly more active than they were." 
For example, he said, ten min­utes of mild morning exercise and a 20 minute evening walk could, with no change in eating habits, take one pound off every 35 days. 
"That's not much, but if we're talking about long-term benefits, it may be much healthier than a crash diet," he said. 
Meyers said that such treat­ments as rigid dieting are good for some and that genetics and meta­bolism may play a role in some obesity. 
"It's still appropriate to go about changing the eating habits of obese people ... but a lot of people are already eating very little,'' he said. "I think making the kind of changes we are talking about could be one of the answers we've been looking for.'' 
Thursday, March 2, 1978 the observer 

on NO [or was it Texas that the weather crushedl] [Photo by Ken McAlpine] 
J 


'i 
l I 
I 
I 
1 
i 
i 
I 
J 
10 the observer 
NASA to attempt 
contact with space station 

WASHINGTON [AP] • The space agency will try Monday to contact the Skylab space station, which has been orbiting silently since astro­nauts last visited it four years ago. 
The attempt, and others to follow, will determine if the station can again be inhabited and whether its orbital path can be shifted by ground command to prevent it from 
possibly crashing  back  into  the  
earth's atmosphere.  
The  National  Aeronautics  and  

Space Agency forecasts that if nothing is done, Skylab will fall out of orbit and enter the atmosphere between early summer 1979 and the second quarter of 1980. 
Experts fear that because the station is so big, it might not burn up completely from atmospheric friction and that large chunks might survive and fall to earth, posing a possible hazard to popu­lated areas. 
Skylab is 118 feet long, 21.6 feet in diameter and weighs 85 tons. It is the biggest man-made object orbiting the earth. 
NASA engineers and flight con­trollers will attempt the contact Monday from a tracking station on Bermuda. 
If the station responds, it will activate some of its batteries, drawing power from the sun through solar panels. The scien­tists will check out the condition of several systems, including the station's huge space telescope. 
If these tests are successful, NASA plans in mid-April to again contact the station to activate its attitude· reference and control systems. If they are working properly, officials said they might try to chang_ethe orientation of the spacecraft ''in a manner that will reduce atmospheric drag and pos­sibly add some months to its orbital lifetime.'' 
NASA hopes in October 1979 to send a manned space shuttle up to Skylab to attach a rocket motor to it. If the station is still habitable, the rocket might be used to boost it into a higher orbit, where it can await a future astronaut crew. 
Otherwise, the rocket would be used to blast Skylab back into the atmosphere in a controlled manner to ensure that the debris would land in a remote ocean area. 
U.S. 31 North-

LARCENYI 
LAUGHTERI 
MYSTERYI 
\if= WALT DISIICY ~ 
PRODUCTIONS' ~ 

("!!!!!!s
Sat. Sun. 1 :15-3:20-5:15­7:20-9:30 
Thursday, March 2, 1978 


Is the Senior Bar engaged in a controversy with local barsJ What are the complaints of the local bars? Will a lawsuit be brought against the Senior Bad What would be the possible consequences of such a lawsuit? 
Watch for the answers to these and other questions next week in the Observer. 
[Photo by Ken McAlpine] 
Study shows: 
Get two opinions on surgery 
NEW YORK [AP] -A study of elective surgery patients found that in one of four cases where a second opinion was sought, the first doc­tor's recommendation for surgery was not upheld. The findings seem to bolster fears that many opera­tions are performed unnecessarily. 
The preliminary results were released Sunday by Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Greater New York and were based on 1,500 cases in which subscribers obtained consul­tation irom a second physician. 
Of 353 obstetrical-gynecological cases studied, 28.6 percent of the initial recommendations were not confirmed by the consultant. Of 

-277-1522 
D 

Held Over 11th Week! Nominated for S Academy Awards! Neil .... Simon's 

Hair Styling at it's Rnest ­for Men The Knights 
Use our private entrance 
277-1691
at the Queen,s Castle. 
272-0312 

Tues. & Wed. 8 :30;6 :30 54533 Terrace Lane ~Thurs. & Fri. 8:30-8:30 Only 5 minutes 1Sat. 8:30-5:30 from campus 
·---------------------------------------
NICKlES 9 -3 MIXED DRINKS soc 
FRI HAPPY HOUR 3 BEERS $1 
253 orthopedic cases, the need for surgery was not confirmed in 33.2 percent of the cases. Of 229 ear, nose and throat cases, 26.6 percent of the recommendations were not confirmed. 
The findings are not necessarily conclusive, cautioned D. Eugene Silbery, executive vice president of the Blue Cross-Blue Shield plan. 
"We are continuing to study the patients to add further data to see how many had operations immedi­ately anyway, how many deferred them for a year or tw?, or perhaps indefinitely,'' Silbery said. 
"We also want to see what happens to the people who have decided not to have surgery. However, we believe the program is immediately beneficial if some subscribers are spared pain by not having surgery. In terms of lowering costs, we also anticipate significant savings.'' 
"For each operation not per­formed, Silbery said, the insurance plan saves about $1,500 in hospital fees. He estimated total savings of $700,000 in the two years the program has been in effect. 
In 1976, the 4.5 million subscri­bers and dependents in the New York plan were offered the free "second opinions" to double-check the initial recommendations for surgery. However, few have taken advantage of the option. 
"The issue of unnecessary elec­tive surgery peaked in 1976, when a congressional subcommittee reported that such surgery costs 
& 
New & Renewals Ap~lications

for 
FINANCIAL AID FORM 
(Formerly Parents Confidential Statement 
\ 

TO BE FILED 
APRH.. 15 
~ 
CONTACT: 
University of Notre Dame Financial Aid/Scholarships Room 111 
Adm. Building 
the country $4 billion annually, 
Blue Cross-Blue Shield said. The 
subcommittee, using a 1974 study 
by Dr. Eugene McCarthy of the 
Cornell University Medical Center, 
estimated that 2.4 million unneces­
sary operations were performed in 
that year. 

''The figures were, and are, controversial, because of a lack of valid data to challenge or support them," Blue Cross-Blue Shield said. "In an attempt to gather such data, Blue Cross-Blue Shield plans are experimenting with second­opinion programs.'' 
The New York study was the first in the nation, the plan said. A number of others have since been started, including those by Blue Shield of Pennsylvania, Blue Shield of New Jersey, Blue Coss and Blue Shield of Illinois, Blue Shield of Massaschusetts, Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Michigan and Ohio Medical Indemnity. 
Prince Faisal upsets neighbors 
ATLANTA [AP] -When Prince Faisal M. Saud AI Kabir of Saudi Arabia bought a house here about six weeks ago, neighbors in the quiet, staid northwest Atlanta area said little about it. 
But a sign recently appeared on the elegant iron gate separating the mansion grounds from Blackland Road, giving notice of a zoning hearing for proposed changes to the 16-room, $645,000 house. 
It turned out the Prince Faisal, the nephew of Saudi King Khalid, plans a few additions, such as guard posts, servants' quarters, a swimming pool, tennis court and a new driveway. 
And there were rumors -and t~at' s all they were -of a stable of Arabian horses and a rarem. 
So the prince's attorney and friend, Martelle Layfield Jr., of Columbu, Ga., invited all the neighborhoods to a meeting to hear about plans which Columbus archi­tect Ed Neal is working on. 
Layfield said the prince does intend to preserve the beauty of the mansion. "He does, however, need to make some additions to meet his needs." he added. 
"I'm going to make a deal with him," said one neighbor. "I'm going to give him grits and he's going to give me oil.'' 
Thursday, March 2, 1978 the ObServer 11 
=o===============n=================a==========n===========d=================O===========n================a===========n==========d=================O============n''''''''=~===i:=:>;:=•;;i;~;;::''''~;;~;;::==:=:'='~i?!~;;;;::=====:=:~i;;;;;~:======~;if~;:::= Candidates taIk about 
.......·.·••·•••••··••·······•·•·•••·· ............................................_.. _..... __ .·,~ • • ·::::. ·::~:. 'Hi:. ·::::. ·::::. ;:;: • ··············-·.o;·;-······················=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=,··=,=·=·=·=·=·=·:·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=;·:·;·:·:·:·:·=·=·:·:·:-=·=·:·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·~;;·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=::;:·=·=·=·=· ·=·= 
current campus 1ssues
Kerrigan talks on ......................................~~~~~~~i·~~..........,i !condnued oom pagetl 
would rather use a "Civil Service -------------d. / 4 / :;:; tor funds to clubs which were type" system. 
Philosophy I I on ISP ay .or sa e~~~ activities-oriented and which could The candidates also answered 
I . . . ;::: contribute to community social life. questions on the topics of parietals 
Poet Anthony Kerrigan will give •• Brooks reads I A ~ollection. 0! orgmal Ortental :::: All three candidates favored and violations of student rights, a talk entitled "Unamuno and his I art wdl be exhtbt~ed for sale today :;:; keeping the position of minority career workshops and the need for role in Philosopy,'' tomorrow night I poetry excerpts I and tomorrow mthe LaF7ortune ::::coordinator created last year. They career guidance and counselors, at 8 · th L'b d't · I I Ballroom from 10 a.m. to p.m. :::: also all agreed that the office the composition of the Student
p.m. 10 e 1 racy au 1 onum. Th 11 t' d' 1 d b ·.·.
The talk is sponsored by the I . . . . e co ec ton, 1 ~P aye Y :;:; should be used more actively, Government Board of Commis­departments of Philosophy and I Puhtzer-pnze wmm.ng poet -I Marson Ltd.__of Baltimore, MD, ~;~; especially for such_things as deve­sioners, and the recent controversyMod d Cl . 1La :Gwendolyn Brooks will read ex I totals approximately 500 pieces ·:·: lopment of soctal awareness over alleged incompetence at the
K ert;t an asstc\ ng;ag;s-ICerpts from her volumes of poetry 1from Japan, China, India, Tibet, ;:;: groups Observer. 
b kemgfan, an aut ohr 0N ~ reel ltonight at 7:30p.m. in Washing-1Nepal and Thailand. :~:; Both. Schlageter and Blanco A second forum will be held oo s o poetry, won t e ationa It H II B k · 't to ·J'h ld t · t · th II t :·:·
Book Award in 1975. on a . _roo s, a vt~l or . I eo es pnn s m e co ec on ;:;: spoke on the issue of student tonight at 10:30 in Dillon Hfall. ISophomore ~tterary Festivals m I date back t? the 18tf:l and 19th ;::: involvement in Student Govern-Students are urged to attend. lrecent years, ts the au~hor o~.a new I century a~d tncl';l~e Chmest: w~-:;:; ment. Schlageter's platform favors
WorkShOp lvo!ume.~f poetry entttled Beck-cuts, Indtan ~umature pamtings, :;:;monthly public forums in alternate lo~mgs. . She was als_o honore~ I a~d manus~pts. The modern :;:;north and south quad dorms as a CLC proposalfor tUtOrS-1wtth election to the Nattonal Insti-l pt~c~s constst of a larg.e grou.p of :;::•means of involving students. tute of Art~ ~nd Letters and was 1 ortgmal w~cuts, etchmgs, l~tho-:;:; Rizzo commented, •'The effec-., / d of the Shelly I graphs, sengraphs and mezzotmts. :;:; tiveness of such forums is contin-&0 eva U8f8 OrfflS
to be Conducted lnamed. rectptant 
IMe~ortal Awa~d by the Poetry I ~;~;tent on personalities. We'd rather 
The Neighborhood Study Help ISoctety of Ame~tca. 1 • . ;:;: people would feel they can pick up [continued from page 1] Program will hold a mandatory I The program ts sponsore_d by the 1CandidateS gather;~;~ the phone and call us. But in the University Counseling Center, will workshop for all tutors tonight in lBlack Cultural Arts Commtttee. :;::forums we go to the students· b "give both the individual residence
1

h M -------------f f :··· ,. , y
~t e6 : 30ep~~n,'al Library Auditorium Or OrUm ::·;.~:~-tuesl.~phonm•g us, they can come to hall staff and the campus-wide
interest groups concrete data of 
Dr. Don Balka, assistant profes-~here will be a campaign forum ;:;: Blanco said he would make "a some of the strengths and weak­sor of math at Saint Mary's will tomght at 10:30 p.m. in the :~:;personal drive to get freshmen and nesses of residential life," accord-conduct the workshop on Mathe-basement of Dillon Hall. Candi-:;::sophomores involved in Student ing to the proposal. matical Teaching Techniques for dates for Student Body President ::;<Government." He also stated that "I like the idea. We ought to grade school students. For further and Vice-President will field ques-;~;~he would not exercise a patronage have this," Paczesny said. "But in information, call Maggie Brittan at tions from the audience. Interested :;:;system when appointing students no way should this turn into a 4-1-4260. students are invited to attend. :;:;to Student Government jobs, but comparison of individual halls." 
**************************************************************************************** 
WANTED BA2 presents the 2nd Edward (ldi Amin) ~ 
* 
PERSONALS
* NOTICES Oehmler Memorial Backgammon Tour­
nament this Friday. Call1078. Be There! **
** The Bookie Joint at the 100 Center wants Need ride to Washington D.C. area for You must see Buchenhagen, in the town Aloha!
* 
to help you stretch your book budget. sprin.!!_ brea~~~~athi 4·1-5459.__ of Migido, near the city of Jesreal. He will tell you that Boivin-Christian must be To our Monday night guest chefs: Grazie:

* 
Bring your paperbacks for exchange. Need ride to Ft. Wayne on Friday March 


elected. Have no pity on the child. He Mille for a Molto Bouno Meal. The Corby*
* -----------------­
* Resumes and personalized cover letters. ~ C~~ian~ at~13_:__ _______ must die. Gang
--------------* 
* 
Efficient expertise robo-typed letter ser-Desperate for a ride to or near Talla­


are out­Need ride to Ann Arbor this weekend. ** 
* 
vice. 2806 Mishawaka Ave. Phone 233-hassee for spring break. Will share ZAHM -our promises not 

rageous. Remember: ''Nothing can with. Call Kate 1264.
* 2550 driving, gas and expenses. Call Bill 8858. classified stand the force of an idea whose time has -------------------*
* -----------------------------------­
come." Vote Boivin-Christian. Dear JAP, . * 
* Vote Boivin-Christian Desperately need GA Loyola tickets. Call 
Say hello to your "buddy" for me. You*
* ------------------ads
* Gay Community at NO lnfoline. Friday, Bi~232-4499 . ____________ Children from ND-SMC families, from know·-" Mr. Personality" * 
3-6th gbrades interested in joining a ----------------* 
* 1o-~2 P~~_:__8870 ~We'r~OK.!ou'r:_OK~ Need ride to New York (Long Island area) 
children's choir, please call Fr. Griffin Kerry, What's anice girl like you doing in* * TYPING DONE for spring break. Call Matt 232-4499. (283-7066) or come to a meeting 3:30 a place like this. Happy 20th. Love & * 
Thursday in the K. of C. building. kisses, Your roomies * ! REASONABLE RATES Psychology research-;jd.Parttim;Call 
------------------* 
CALL8086 287-4785 after 9 p.m. 
Lenten confessions heard Monday thru Dear Kliglib, *
* -----------------­
Saturday at Sacred Heart beginning at 7 Do you love me even when I'm a scatter-* 
* Accurate, fast typing. MRS. DONOHO Need-rid;-toStlouis,-So~iil.-area. ****************** brain and I unintentionally hurt you? I*
p.m. Anyone wishing to make appoint
. * 232-0746 Hours 8a.m. to 6 p.m. March 2, 3. Call 6889. 
ment for other confession times may love you so much and would give*
* ---------------------------------­
phone Campus Ministry at 6536 or 3820. anything for adecent memory. Klig * 
* Typing. Reasonable rates. Call 8051. Two girls need ride to Chicago on March * ------------------3. Call 4-1-5330 or 4-1-5341.
* Every student can vote in the May __________________ Dear DAA Weloveya...getou~here!==JP&BL!
IS days till 

It was nice to finally meet the mysterious
* Indiana primary · If interested, register Need ride to u. of 1., Champaign this voice at the other end of the line. Of all the words of tongue and pen, the** before spring break by calling Mo at weekend _March 2, 3, or 4. Call Cindy 
Sincerely, TMK saddest are these:it might have been. * 
* 4-1·4001. 7434 or 7961 , 
Sincerely, Butch Lee*
* ------------------------------------­Maureen & Katie need ride to Dayton ----------------* 
* One roommate to share Campus View Need ride to Chicago this friday, March 
game. Leaving Saturday?! $$ 6797. To all intere')ted females: * 
* 
apartment. Please ca~ 277-3509:____ 3. Call Mike 6186. 


Paul Louis Rondino is taking applica-* 
* 
Student & Faculty entertainers: Call Tim ______H_rtf_d-CTf--b---C-11 Desperately need ride to So. Bend at tions for his Saturday Night Disco*

* 
Ellison (288-5207) if interested in per-Need ride to a or , or reak. a night. Call 8-2 will pay. 233-7949 Extravaganza. So get the "fever" and* call "Padre" at 6664. *

forming at the Good Earth Pub. Marybeth_6877. ----------­
* 
Sophomores! Get your gym shorts and ------------------* ! wanted~ Ridehom;to fioridafor spring Seriously In need of two GA Loyola formal tickets on sale this week 12-4 In How are my Detroit sweeties Cris, Bruce,* 

* 
break. Call David 8697. tickets.~ai~40. __________ the class office In Lafortune. & Pat may see you soon. Get ready'!* Tricia * 

* 
Th;StudentUnio;i;-lookingfor comn-Need ride for 2 to Lauderdale for spring Now is the time for all uglies to get those

* 
,. break. Pat 6711. pennies. Mar;louis;&-SuzielHave-;supe~da;!**

* 
trollers and staff workers. If interested, ------------------

Roomie

* applications available at S.U. Deadline Need ride to Tamps-St. Pete for break.
* Monday. Rob 1145. Ugly man is coming. Save your pennies. -----------------* 
Coolie, This time I didn't forget. Happy*
* -----------------------------------­
* Typing done in home. Fast, Accurate Cathy Fig, anniversary!! All my love. Ma Dooley * 
* reasonable. Close to campus. Call 272-We're low on lunch meat, but we have ------------------* 
Lynn & Maureen, Sorry, I couldn't let it*
* 7866 anytime. . plenty of break. When can you come 
happen. GL*
* ------------------GA tix for Loyola call Jack 1724. over? Hi Regina 5-North B'" Fig 
-------------------* 
* NEED QUALITY TYPING? Executary, ------------------•~:t * Inc. Professional Typing Service IBM Need ride for three to the 'Big Apple' Need ride to Boston area March 17. Will ------------------KMB * 
RA, RA, RA. Good luck. Signed, "The*
Correcting Selectric. $.85 per page New York City for spring break. We can't share driving and expenses. Call Tony at UMOC is on the prowl! Call 2195 for 
Pest"

* minimum. Call 232-0898 "When you afford the train so call Tom Doug or John 1436'---------.-------details. * 
* want the Best'' Resumes: $3.00 per page. ' ------------------------------------* 
* 
_________________ 3414:________________ ~~~ ~~u~i~~i;e~~r r~~~i~~ ~~~ak~Y~~i Otto kille~ Eem~ Signed~~m~--Come to the "Library" and help Sharon* 

Lynn Heifer celebrate her birthday!! * 

* 
FOR RENT HOTLINE VOLUNTEERS NEEDED! Be-share driving and expenses. Call Brian at Andy Culhane for UMOC ! come aHotline listener and learn skills to 1153. ------------------Happy -birthda;-Sharonlyn;Helfer!! ** 


To whomever rented out Sam Willis, help people In our community. Next --"'""----------------Dazzling beauty sought! To accompany Love. Googie, Donna, Sue. Baldo and * Please identify yourself. training begins March 21 and goes thru FOR SALE handsome N.Y.'er to America concert. Beth * 
* HSW AprilS, Tuesday and Thursday evenings. Must guess my favorite America song. ---------------­* 
* ------------------Arrangements will be made for any NO jacket for sale. Gold sleeves. Good Transpo provided (Porsche) Chris 233-Today is Sharonlynn Heifer's 19th birth-* * SMC·ND students who will be gone over condition. $25.00 Call 234-o980. 4381 before 11 p.m. day! ! Call her at 4-1-4879 and wish her a ** LOST & FOUND break. Interested? Call Hotline 232-3344. ------------------------------------happy birthday. * * ------------------Panasonic compact stereo system. Eight Hey men: Belles and boots have the new ----------------* 
* Found a scarab bracelet behind Walsh Need ride for 2 to Ft. Lauderdale for track, AM-FM receiver, turntable, kinky disease-ocular rectitis. Would you Andy Petro -good luck this weekend ir ~~· * hall. Call John 1582. spring break. Caii4TT4 [SMC] thruster speakers. 6 months old. $150. like to get it? Call 5404. Detroit * 
* ------------------3001. ----------------·---------------* 
Found. Sl·ngle key lying in D1 parking WORK IN JAPAN! Teach English con-------------------Monika Schwarzler... l love you very Axeman, Better sharpen your blade * 
*
* lot Call Paul at 1380 -versation. No experience, degree, or Technics SL-23. turntable. Need money much. An Admirer cause I need to be dehorned now! Killer *
* 
_.:_________:______ Japanese required. Send long, stamped, for Florida. Call Kurt 287-8698. ----------------­

* 
Lost: Silver wire-rim glasses between self-addressed envelope for details. ------------------Dr. Linda Korczyk discovers new disease: Need1~i" orJGA tixfor Loyola~Mike ** 

* 
stadium and Law School. Please call Japan-181, 411 W. Center, Centralia, Stereo equipment -major brand dis-ocular rectitis! You may have it -it's 1818. 

* 
272-0239. WA 98531. counts on fully guaranteed, factory sealed extremely contagious. 4619 -----------------*


Call for * --------------------------------auto-video equipment. Elliott Enterprise, details and symptoms! Free prescriptions Linda, Now that we have talked, how * Lost: One expensive black ski glove (right Need 4 GA tickets to any weekend home Pack Court, Buchanan, Mich. 49107 Call ---------------about another date. Mobile * 
* hand). Lost near North Dining Hall on basketba~game_:_Call 4•1 -574~----Niles (toll free) 683-D121. Lar and Bam: Rumors are spreading that -----------------* * Tuesday, Feb. 21. A great service to my OVERSEAS JOBS_ Summer-year-round. ---------------you have been breaking and entering Sandy, Happy 21st Here's to Nickles and * hand if returned. Call1653. STEAL your remaining books for the under the influence-Shame, shame! Tuna Flats: Hockey drunks at Blue Line; * * -----------------Euro~. S. America, Australia, Asia, etc. semester. Pandora's is having ahalf price ----------------and never caring who thought you were * * 1 · ·of desert boots lost at ACC Call All fields, $500-1200 monthly, expenses used book sale. Selected new books (Tom Kay Masters, I had that talk with the crazy. Love, Pooch * 
pair · paid, sightseeing. Free information.
* Craig at 8862. C B D Robbins, Doonesbury, etc.) at 25 percent editorial board and they apologized. And ----------------~ * 
4490

* ----------------Write: BHP 0•• ox • ept. 14, off. Down from Corby's 233-2342. so my dear, here's wishing you a belated Rogin, Thanks for Saturday's lunch. Your * * Lost: Men's digital wristwatch at Library Berkeley, CA 94704· ------------------Happy V-day just the same. Dan P.S. KK mother is adish.TH * * Bar will identify engravings. Reward. Ride~eededto New-Orleansfor break. Full color Cotton Bowl plctum now is such a cute nickname. -----------------** 4-4004. Call Max 3360. IVIII&ble. Call 8982. ---------------Attention St Mary's students: 1018 * * -----------------------------------Dear M.S. looking forward to Frtday Flanner is now accepting reservations for * * Lost: Acalculator during Econ. test. 2-23. Why pay more? Flanner Records has all night. Stly healthy please. Love, Jo-Joe any girls who wish to stay after SMC * * If you picked up one, not yours call 3506. $7.98 list LP's for only $5.29. All $6.98 -------------------closes. RSV~2._201.:_ __________ *
* 
list LP's for only $4.59 (plus tax) Flanner Princely love, Gorgeous winner! Rematch

* 
Records 322 Flanner Phone 2741. Most ingenious kiss. Adoring Lovee. lnvol. ; ~•3tue slaughter: Otto killed ~ · Eemo. ...,... 



i ***********************************************•*************************~***** .. '<*** * 

l 
sion last year. One of the hardest 
With a field of four returning Romano and Jamie Shreiner workers and fiercest competitors in champions, fourteen past finalists hungry for the title. Romano, a fall the boxing club, Rogers will be out and a group of contestants that novice champion is taking time to even the score in this year's 
\ ranges from defensive ends to away from the rugby field to make finals. Notre Dame rugby players, this a run at the title in his first year of 145 Pounds: What can you say year's Bengal Bouts should be one boxing. Shreiner, a success story about a division that includes two of the most entertaining and excit-in his own right, was handicapped past champions and a two time ing affairs on campus. as a child but has won this battl€ runner-up other than "be there 
The bouts, which begin this and will be there for the first bell on when those fists fly." Mike Mur­Sunday at 1:30 in the ACC, will Sunday. phy, a boxing club officer and include a span of 13 divisions and 135 Pounds: The "almost returning finalist, has never been approximately 80 students striving champ," Brian Diamond, lost on a known to hold anything back, so be{ for that coveted class champion-split decision last year in this sure to watch for lively action from I ship. The aspiring boxers have talent-filled division last year. But the sound of the first bell. Pat been training every day since it might be the same story again O'Connell is a 1976 champion and Christmas break. Division by this year as Dave Tezza, a former known for his classic style of division, the fight card reads as champion, is back again as a senior boxing. Brian Kilb, last year's follows: and wants a second title. Not champion in the 147lbs. division, is 125 Pounds: Past finalist and forgotten is J.P. Holbrook, a Ben­eager for his second title in as boxing club officer Danny Romano gal veteran with lots of firepower. many years so look for some I ~­with Daryl Reyes are the top 140 Pounds: This division should spirited action from this powerful
\. 
.,l-prospects in this competitive light-be a replay of last year's clash right-hander. weight division. The veteran between Tony Ricci and Walt 150 Pounds: John Talbot is the Romano is known for his quickness Rogers. Ricci is one of the most veteran boxer in this division. He and dancing abilities. ROTC colorful boxers to step into the maintains his classic style by member Reyes is also quick and in Bengals ring in recent years. A keeping good form and always excellent shape. Golden Gloves winner from Roc-staying in control. Former baseball 
t 130 Pounds: Doug Borgatto, hester, N.Y., Ricci is a brilliant player John Stephens i~ a first year boxer but still possess the dedica­
t Tom Desmond ~===~=======================================================================================================: 
tion to do it all in his first year. i ISS Pounds: Who could forget the classic match-up of last year's
t 
Bengal's: Joe Cooler, the southpaw 
Basketball Seeding 
slugger, against the more slender and taller master of finesse, Phil
t 
' Harbert. The boxer beat the 
slugger last year, but the way =================================================================================================:::::===================: Six-Pointers Cooler has been training this year. The annoncement date for bids to post-season competition in basketball 
He's certainly out to even up the are the top prospects at this could be the best in recent Bengalis more sacred than its football counterpart. Two years ago it became
t score. But it is going to be a weight. annals. 
apparent three days before the date in which bids could be extended that difficult road again for former 190 Pounds: Lefty Jeff Caira. a And there you have it...TheseNotre Dame was Gator Bowl bound. The Cotton Bowl bid, and champion Cooler as novice cham­rookie, is awesome in appearance people have got to have an "inside acceptance, were mere formalities in the presss box at six p.m. following pions Steve Mynsberge and Mike and style. Nick Raich, another track" to the Friday night finals
t the Air Force game last fall. The country knew well ahead of time that Brink will be formidable obstacles rugby competition, usually takes slots. But there are sure to bethat combination was a sure bet. 
in his path. two punches to land one. With the some upsets from those hungryWhere will the Irish go for the post-season basketball tournament? The -160 Pounds: Runner-up Pete flashy style of Carl Penn, there is first year boxers who have fine­rumor mills say Eugene, Oregon against the Big Sky champion. That was DeCelles, comes to this year's sure to be excitement plus at this tuned their bodies and minds into
Tuesday. Yesterday the word was Witchita to do battle with the 
Bengals with high hopes and weight. great shape.
Southwest Conference Champion. Students from the New England area aspiration from last year ... De­Heavyweight: "Big John'' Vellu­But that's what the competitivecontend that the Irish will find themselves in the East against Penn in Celles with his brawling style, can tato, last year's heavyweightitleist, spirit is all about, and that's whatPhiladelphia and then on to Providence for the regional. And another deal out a stinging punch as well as has to be considered a top prospect the Bengals are all about. You'llvariable is that the Irish will remain in the Mideast, as the second seeded take the best of them. The other in this year's title match among the see some sore noses, some blackat-large after Marquette and that DePaul, on the basis of a weaker top contenders in this division "big boys." And are there "big eyes. and perhaps a trickle or twoschedule will be shipped out. So, with bids coming out Sunday afternoon include boxing newcomer Jamie boys!" Footballers Scott Zettek, of red--but above all else look for one guess is as good as another. 
Stephens and law student John Pat Boggs and Kim U niacke along the hugs, the handshakes and theIn an earlier column, I elaborated on the new format for the NCAA 
"Cuchulainn" Cotter. with 6-6 law student Mike Riley are smiles which make every loser a tournament with the seeding of the ocnference representatives in the 165 Pounds: Little did Terry all ferocious fighters. With this winner, and every winner a betterregions and the seeding of the selected at-large teams for each region. 
Rogers realize that when he was slate, the heavyweight division man.
Now that the season is winding down, the brainchild of the NCAA could 
boxing at West Point a few years
backfire in its face. 

ago, that he was soon to find
Arkansas, based on its regular season performance is the favorite to win 
himself flailing away on a Notre
the SWC tournament and in so doing secure the SWC slot in the Midwest 
Dame canvas. A runner-up last
region. But, Eddie Sutton's squad finds itself a position where it's 
year, Rogers is sure to make his
probable second-round opponent would be Kansas in the post-season 
presence known every second of
tournament. Sutton's squad will be further handicapped if they meet 
the way. With former champion
Kansas, as they would have to beat the number-one seeded at-large team 
Kevin Smith in this middle weight
in the opening round. To make matters worse, regionals are being held at 
class, there should definitely be
Lawrence, Kansas, home of the number-five rated Kansas Jayhawks. 
some crowd pleasers on Sunday.
Arkansas could lose the SWC tournament and still receive an at-large 
170 Pounds: This is one of the
berth, and in all probability would be the top one or two at-large teams in 
most competitive divisions in re­
the region too which they were assigned. The potential of meeting the 
cent Bengal Bout history. Brian
Ohio Valley and then Big Ten champ against the alternative of 
Temme, gridder Tom Flynn, rookie
number-one at-large then Kansas seems to be a tempting reason for 
Eric Schmitt and law student Tom
Arkansas to take a half-hearted attitude in the SWC tournament, and a 
Plouff are the top pugilists in this
"moral dilemma" for sutton. 
weight class. 

To draw this closer to the Dome, going on the assumption that the Irish 
185 Pounds: Officer Mike Tho­
will be the top at-large team in their assigned region if they leave the 
mas Gus Cifelli and Jeff Bartlett
Mideast, that would mean either the Big Sky, Ivy or SWC champions in the opening round followed by UCLA the ACC titleholder or the Big Eight champ. Second at-large in the Mideast? Opening round at Market Square Arena in Indy followed by Kentucky at Dayton. Once again, the second round jinx looms ominously, awaiting its annual appearance in the life of 
ND to compete in Motor City
Digger Phelps. . That could all change, however, if Digger's charges play like they did in By Ted Robinson the season, their first .500 season Buffalo State. the second half against Marquette. Sure, the game clinched a NCAA bid. Sports Writer since 1974-75. 
In the tournament, swimmers 

Yeah, the Irish knocked off another number-one ranked team and insured The hottest Irish swimmer in can be entered in a maximum of a plethora of television appearances in the years ahead. But, most The Motor City Invitational recent weeks, diver Joe Caverly, three individual events and three 
importantly, the team showed everyone and in particular themselves just comes at the end of a rigorous dual continued his torrid pace on the relays. All swimmers must qualifyhow good they are and how good they should be. After that 20 minute meet schedule for the Notre Dame diving platforms as he captured the in a morning preliminary in order demonstration of as perfect basketball as any team has played this winter, swimmers. But, as Coach Dennis one and three-metf·r diving events to compete in the evening finals. 
the Fighting Irish have created self-inflicted pressure to perform to that Stark points out, this is the meet for the third consecutive meet. 
This procedure will enable the Irish capability the rest ofthe way--At Dayton, Against Loyola, And on into the that everyone connected with Notre Caverly has now won the last seven to utilize the talents of Komora and 
tournament. Dame swimming looks forward to. diving events in which he has Fitzsimons in a varying number of Notre Dame has been in the NCAA tournament 13 teams and yet has "I think the entire team has competed. 
events. 

never made it to the final four. Digger Phelps has had four tournament waited for the MotorCity during the Other Irish winners in the IJlinois Nine graduating seniors willsquads here and one at Fordham and has never won the tourney's second season," Stark said. "I set State meet were John Komora in close out their Notre Dame careerscontest. Dormant for 23 and a half games, the true ability of this year's standards for the meet and every­the 200 yard individual medley with the Motor City. Senior
team came to the fore against the Warriors. If it proved anything at all it one on the team strives to meet (2:04.0), Ed Fitzsimons in the 100 proved that the talents and desires to end the NCAA frustration are them. Our times generally lower yard freestyle (49.4) and the team breaststroker Gordon Drake, who 
did not travel with the team for any 
present and the Irish have learned how to win as excuses are no longer considerably by the end of the of Tom Krutsch, Tom Hartye, meets this year, qualified for the
acceptable. season, so the Motor City usually Komora and Fitzsimons in the 400 trip to Detroit with a time of 1:04 in Sunday is not just NCAA tournament bids day but the opening day of brings out our best performances. yard freestyle relay (3:18.5). 
the 100 yard breaststroke.

the 1978 Bengal Bouts as well. One of the deep-rooted traditions at Notre For example, in the lllinois State Seven other schools will partici­Dame the Bengals will begin at 1:30 on Sunday with a full slate of Bouts. meet, we had nine best times of pate in the Motor City, which will Otherseniors include divers Cav­The semis will be on Tuesday, March 7th beginning at 8 p.m. with the the year.'' be contested in a manner similar to erly and Fritz Shadley, freestylers finals slated for 8 on Friday the lOth. The Irish closed out its dual meet the NCAA Championships. The Bill Schoo, the 1976-77 team cap­
Congratulation are in order for the first-year coach Sharon Petro and her schedule by dropping a 62-51 other schools will be host school tain, Jim Severyn, the present women's cage team ac: thev routed the field in the northern district last decision to Illinois State last Friday Wayne State, Oakland, Northern captain, Steve Fitzmorris and & weekend. They w 'Vin.:ennes University Friday afternoon in in Normal, 111inois. The defeat Michigan, Ferris State, Wisconsin­Fitzsimons, flyer Ed DiLuia and the state semi-finals and hopefully will capture the finals on Saturday. gavt> Notre Dame a 5-5 record for Milwaukee, Chicago State and breaststroker Andy Petro. 
runner-up in the 125 lbs. division last year is ready, willing and able to take it all this year. But he still will have his hands full with Rocky 










