Darragh ticket sweeps SMC election 
by Anne Bachle Staff Reporter A record number of Saint Mary's students voted yesterday to elect Gail Darragh as Student Body President. Maureen Carden as Vice-President for Academic Af· fairs, and Julie Pope as Vrce-Presi­dent for Student Affairs. 
The wiiining ticket posted "a clear victory over the opposing ticket of Terry Tuohy, Sheila Wixted, and Mary Mullaney, according to Election Commission­er Maria-Lisa Mignanelli. Election rules in the Student Handbook prohibit public disclosure of exact vote tallies, but Mignanelli said 1,018 students voted, which is approximately 60 percent of the student body. 
Darragh, pleased with the tum-out and especially grateful to her supporters, attributed her success to tbeir campaign organiza­tion. "We really worked hard on our platform and on our campaign, but we gained a lot of backers because I think out enthusiasm was contagious," she commented. 
Although the opposing ticket claimed extensive experience in student government, Darragh poin­ted out that she and her running mates have had experience work­ing on numerous committees and activities throughout their years at Saint Mary's. "So we were glad people put their confidence in us," she said. 
A junior psychology major, Darragh said she plans to begin work on implementing her platform campaign promises as soon as possible. Carden, a junior art and business major. and Pope, a sophomore psychology major, ag­reed voicing their determination to "do a great job." 
Commenting on the "clean campaign," Tuohy said she does not regret running for office. "It's a way of showing support for your school," she declared, adding that she as offerend her support to Darragh and was "optimistic that she'll do a good job." 
Both platforms promised to work for extended parietals, close cooperation with the Career Development Center. and better communication between the stu­dents and their representatives. 
Some students indicated that Darragh's proposals for additional callboxes. weekend movie festi­vals. more responsibilities for section representatives, and a Professional Week offering career information, were major factors in their decision. 

Candidate Bradley eyes U.S. Senate seat 
by Marjorie Irr sensitive to peoples' problems." 
Regardless of his allegiance to 

Bill Bradley. U.S. Senate the party. Bradley admitted that candidate from New Jersey told the party organization in New students last night that he Jersey is not with him. "deliberately took a di,fferent "I don't have the governor's road" into politics. . • ,, support and I don't have the state 
After ten years of professioha) ··Chairman's support." Bradley 
basketball with the New York Knicks. a year on the U.S. Olympic team in 1964. and a Rhodes Scholarship following graduation ~ from Princeton in 1965. Bradley said he represents a challenge to how New Jersey politics have been made in the past. 
Approximately 100 students attended the reception for Bradley in the Memorial Liprary Lounge following his appearance at the annual basketball banquet. According to a show of hands. the majority of students were not from New Jersey and they questioned Bradley mostly on national issues including the Middle East. the Panama Canal. human rights. and energy. 
''Although I would vote against the sale of arms to Saudia Arabia and Egypt, we have a specific exception to make with Israel," Bradley said. "I support the Panama Canal treaty. We've never had sovereignty over the canal. But we will have control over the commission to govern the canal," he noted. 
On the human rights issue, Bradley said that the U.S. cannot rightfully set any hard and fast rules for other countries. "We can't tie aid packages to the value systems of other countries and cultures.'' 
Bradley admitted that. if elected, one of his pet projects would be solar energy. He said that it could be a reliable and excellent source of energy if the federal government would make it available to the public by financing generators. "I oppose further nuclear develop­ment. When we run out of uranium, we'll have to use plutonium, a very dangerous substance," Bradley noted. 
Altough Bradley said he dis­agrees with the Democratic Party line on the merits of nuclear energy, he added that the Democratic Party is the best because "it is diverse enough to entertain the solutions to the problems we face today." 
''I believe in the Democratic Party because it has been more conceded. "B ut I do have the support· of many municipal chair­men." He recently got the endorsement of Henry Luther. who managed Governor Byrne's sue­cessful campaign in 1977. 
In the New Jersey Primary election on June 6. Bradley will oppose New Jersey's former state treasurer who is the Democratic Party's candidate and a New Jersey 

BILL BRADLEY 
[photo by Dave Rumbach] state senator. Bradley said that polls indicate he is in the lead. 
The winner of the-primary will face incumbent senator Clifford Case, a . Republican who has served in the Senate since 1954. Case, a moderate liberal; is 


an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's Voi._XII, No. 102 Tuesday, March 14, 1978 
No forced compliance 
Miners ignore court work order 
[AP]iAII but a few of the nation's 160,000 striking coal miners ignor­ed a federal back-to-work order Monday, and the handful who returned to the mines had virtually no effect on coal production. 
In Pennsylvania, hundreds of club-carrying pickets took to a road in a 150-car caravan to shut down non-union mines. But most other areas were quiet, with union mines remaining.idle even in the absence of pickets. 
It was the first real test of whether the United Mine Workers rank and file will obey a Taft­Hartley court order obtained last Thursday by President Carter. 
But with the order still not in full effect in some areas, a Justice Department spokesman in Wash­ington said there would be no hasty action to force compliance. Spokesman Mark Sheehan said the administration expects miners to gradually return to work this week. 
Meanwhile, bargainers for the union and coal companies took a pause in negotiations in Washing­ton. They reported some progress over the weekend, but said they were not on the verge of a settlement. Each side used the day to work on its own positions on specific issues. 
Since the strike began Dec. 6, rebellious union officers and rank and file members had already scuttled two tentative settlements on grounds that they eroded union medical benefits, did not equalize pension benefits among old and younger retired miners, and allow­ed companies to discipline those who lead wildcat strikes. 
The strike, which was in its 98th day Monday, has cut national coal production in half, forced power companies in much of the Midwest and mid-Atlantic regions to ask for or order power conservation, and thus led to tens of thousands of layoffs. 
Last Thursday, a federal judge granted the Carter administration a temporary 'back-to-work order un­~ the Taft-Hartley Act, and by said the necessary papers had been served on virtually all UMW locals in the country. 
Over the weekend, and on Mon­day, local union leaders were performing their legal duty to pass the word on to members, and to have mines inspected by union safety committees -a step needed for reopening. 
But while union leaders and locals can be penalized for failure to comply, there is no mechanism for forcing individual miners back to work. And at most mines that reopened Monday, no miner.: showed up. ­
Even when miners did report, there were usually too few to form maintenance or mining crews, and the companies sent them home. 
One of the few mines where work was done wa's in Keystone, W.Va., where 30 members of a 150-man 
"So far there hasn 't been too much damage compared to other strikes ... " 
shift showed up at 8 a.m. First reports said there were not enough men to mine coal, but there were enough for maintenance work. 
The local involved was one of the few which had voted to accept the most recent contract settlement. 
A 30-member maintenance crew also showed up for work at a Pittsburgh and Midway Coal Co. mine in Amsterdam, Mo., which has been damaged by harsh weath­er, according to coal company spokesman Jim Carnett. Mining was not expected there for several days. 
Picketing is specifically forbid­den by the back-to-work order, and only a scattered few pickets were reported outside union mines. 
·~!l w~stemPennsylvania, howev­er, roving pickets appeared in force. Carrying sticks,. baseball 
'~ 

~----------------------~-----------------------------------------------------------------------d~r·_''_' ~?\L·_·~~~-----~ 
. · · · • ·· · .(C!Ontlnued on page '7.].; ~day the· Justice Department 
bats and pipes, some 400 men in a caravan of 150 cars roved through the countryside, heckling and shut­ting down non-union mines that had been operating, state police said. 
"Ifany mines are open they shut them down, then they move on," said state police Major Homer Redd. "We've had some rocks thrown, but most of it's heckling. So far there hasn't been too much damage compared to other strikes we've been through." 
A spokesman for Consolidation Coal Co. said about 30 pickets had shown up at one union mine in Pennsylvania at midnight Sunday, but "there wasn't any problem. They just wanted to make sure no one went to work." 
While some union locals else­where completed their safety in­spections in short order, some safety committees from District 23 in western Kentucky were giving that area's strip mines a stringent and time-consuming going-over, according to Wayne Neal, chair­man of a UMW grievance commit­tee there. 
"I don't expect any coal to be mined this week," Neal said, adding that the committees, which also must re-inspect and approve any repairs they 1order, might not finish their work for two or three days. 
Meanwhile, a spokesman for the giant Peabody Coal Co., which employs 11,000 UMW miners in Ohio, Indiana, lllinois, Kentucky, Missouri, Oklahoma or Arkansas, said none of its 42 mines was operating. 
In West Virginia, where 65,000 UMW miners work, only small groups were reporting to mines. In addition to the 30 at the Keystone mine, which is operated by Eastern Associated Coal Co., a few men showed up at a U.S. Steel Corp. mine at Gary, and two showed up at the Princess Susan Coal Co. mine at Ward. But in both Gary and Ward, there weren't enough men to do any work and they were sent home. 
. '' 
,: 
-~~· 


Tuesday, March 14, 1978
r 2 
! 
noon 
12:15 
p.m. 

12:15 
p.m... 4:15p.m. 


4:~0 p.m. 
6:30p.m. 
6:30p.m. 
4 p.m. 
7, 9, 11 p.m. 
7 p.m. 7:15p.m. 
7:30p.m. 
7:30p.m. 
8 p.m. 
8 p.m. 9 p.m. 
brown bag lunch, "the psychology of collecting" by dr dean a. porter, sponsored by art gallery, art gallery. 
film series, "significant constitutional cases in our nation's history" "marbury v. madison," produced under auspices of judicial conference of u.s. and organized by mr. justice white, sponsored by n.d. law school, rm. 101 law building, see 4 p.m. also. 
mass, fr. griffin celebrant, Iafortune ballroom. 
meeting, northwest indiana archeological field school for summer '78, by professor bellis of dept. soc. and· anthro., program worth six credits in anthro., rm. 221 o'shag. 
seminar, "impact of size selective planktivory on phosphorus cycling in pelagic systems" by minister steven bartell, u. of wise., rm. 278 galvin. 
meeting, studies abroad: the ireland group, stapleton lounge, for all interested students and faculty. 
film "on that day in east bronx", sponsored by howard-badin religious comm., howard hall chapel, free 
film, "mccullough vs. mar"yland," sponsored by 
n.d. law school, rm. 110 law bldg. 
film "play it again sam," sponsored by amnesty international, eng. aud., $1. 
film, "gold diggers of 1933, carroll hall smc. 
seminar "communion and concluding right", spon­sored by bishop w.e. mcmanus, catholic diocese of fort wayne/south bend, regina chapel and aud. 
eucharist, charismatic eucharist, log cabin chapel, open. 
film, "the roots of madness" by theodore white, sponsored by history club, Iafortune amphitheatre, 
free 

convocation, freshman honors convocation, fr. hesburgh, c.c.e aud. 
pool exhibition, by paul gerni, Ia fortune poolroom 
s.m.c. all-campus bible study, regina aud. 
*The Observer 
Ni< ht Editor: Steve Odland 
a 
Asst. Nighteditor: Sherry
'vlummert layout Staff: Willie Foster 
Editorial Layout: Martha Fan· 
•ing 
Sports Layout: Greg "Jour· nal" Solman Typists: Gwen Coleman, 
The Observer Is published Mon­day through Friday eKcept during 
exam and vKation periods. The
Observer Is published by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions 
may be purchased for no per year
CS 10 per semester) from The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, 
Indiana, 4UU. The Observer 11 a member of the Associated Preu. All repro­
duction rlghta are reserved. 

Mary Jo Cushing, Tricia Mee-"-.....!:============~
han, Karen Chiames, Lisa "' "No Makeup Tonight" (ugh) Copy Reader: Bob Varettoni, DiValerio Phil (ackley EMT: Mike Bodle Ad Layout: Elizabeth Cutter Day Editor: Ka~e Flynn Photographer: Dave Rumbach 
Students: move your cars! 
by Doug Bonanoml towed. 
Students are also alerted not toNotre Dame Security officials park in the Stepan Center lotsadvise students intending to leave during or after break. Whentheir cars on campus during spring 

classes resume at the end ofbreak that parking will be permit­March, the . Stepan lot will beted in specified areas only. 

Students with cars presently reserved during the day for faculty parked in the D-1 parking lot are and staff parking only, and will be warned to leave their cars in areas used as a basketball recreation area cleared of snow. Maintenance during the afternoons. crews will plow the remaining . snow-covered sections on Monday, Students intending to leave their March 20 and cars which remain in cars during break in the D-2 lot those sections during break will be should park in either an area 
WNDU now broadcasts live 
by Tim Joyce there was an interest for the same type of music that we had been 
WNDU-AM radio began broad­playing, but with a different casting live last week, replacing the approach. That's why we went old system of automation, accord­live," explained Stecker. ing to Ted Stecker, WNDU-AM Commenting on the possibility of program director. WNDU-FM radio going live, 
The station has switched to a Stecker said, ''The station is happy program of live broadcasts twice a with the FM results now and there day, from 6-10 in the morning and are no major plans except to make 3-7 in the afternoon. Morning it better." di!sc-jockeying chores are handled WNDU-AM does not plan to go by Stecker and Chris Robbins takes live 24 hours-a-day at the present over in the afternoon. time but they do plan to keep 
''The other hours · are still adding features and improvements automated, but because there is to the station's format. Stecker someone there at all times, it cited the new weather format and sounds like we're broadcasting live the new station identification, as all day," said Stecker. examples. 
cleared of snow between the foot­ball stadium and the senior bar, or in a cleared-off section of D-1. Any cars remaining in an unauthorized section of the D-2 lot during break will be towed. 
Green Field parkers are asked to move their cars into any of the cleared off sections already men­tioned. There will be no parking permitted in the Green Field after break because of expected muddy conditions. 
Director of Security, Arthur Pears said that flyers will be placed on the windshields of cars present­ly in student parking lots, to instruct owners exactly where they should park their cars during break.. 
"We certainly don't want to tow any cars," Pears said. He added that student participation would be 

. beneficial for everyone. 
r·,.»,»»:~~:::,::"-'*'1 
:::: Elgar to the Matterhorn on foot. 2 & 3 -:;:: ;~: weak backpacking expeditions amongst ;:;: :;:; Jagged peaks and breathtaking wild ;:;: ;:;: flowers of Switzerland. Mountaineering :;:: ;:;: Instruction and guided ascents of the ;:;: :;:; Matterhorn and other major peaks also :;:; ;:;: avallaba. ;:;: :;:; Brochure: Earth Journeys, Ink Inc. :;:: :::: Dept. c., 3400 Peachtree Road, At-;:;: 
l,,,:::~,:,,:;,,.,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,~,>,,,,l 
,....News Briefs-------.... 
J===:::::=:::::=:::::=:::::=:::::=:::::=:::::=:::::=~ National 
PSI threatens cutoffs 
Indiana's largest electric company served notice on hundreds of businesses and industries yesterday to comply with 25 percent mandatory power cutbacks or face service disconnections within 24 hours. The move by Public Service Indiana raised the possibility of mushrooming job layoffs if companies lose electric service and have to close. 
Hogs, heifers, sows active 
INDIANAPOIJS -Hogs 2,300: Barrows and gilts moderately active, steady to firm; 1-2 210-235 pounds 49.00-49.25, 165 head 49.25; 1-3 200-255 lbs. 48.50-49.00, many 49.00; lot near 200 lbs. 48.25; 2-3 235-270 lbs.. 48.00-48.75; 2-4 280-285 lbs. 47.00-47.75. Sows, moderately active, mostly steady; 1-3 300-450 lbs. 41.00-42.50; 450-600 lbs. 42.50-44.00. Cattle 1,600 steers and heifers very active, mostly 1.00 higher, instances 1.25 higher on choice steers and 2.00 up on standard and good heifers; cows active, .50-l.OO higher, bulls active, 1.00-2.00 higher in limited test. 
~On Campus Today_~ 
The station decided to go live about a month ago, said Stecker, and the first live broadcast was March 6. 
"Going live is just part of having a successful station, which is our goal. The station did some marketin research and saw that 
need posters in a hurry? 


• Tuesday, March 14, 1978 
the observer 

FBI apprehends hijacker in Denver 
DENVER [AP] -The hijacker of a landed in Oakland, where the 68 United Airlines 727 surrendered passengers and four flight atten­yesterday after the three crewmen dants were allowed to leave. who had remained on the plane During the hour the plane was on jumped from a cockpit window the ground in Denver, the FBI about an hour after the plane talked to the man. and the airport landed in Denver for refueling. spokesman said agents reported 
FBI agents approached the plane that the hijacker "sounded pretty after the crewmen jumped. disturbed." 
Bob Stapp, airport spokesman, In a television broadcast of reported that the hijacker told conversation between the FBI and agents, "I surrender." the cockpit shortly before the man The hijacke had said he has gave up, a voice identified as that terminal cancer. of the hijacker said: "I have The plane, which was hijacked nothing to say except I want over San Francisco Bay, first fuel.. .Look, if you guys are so hot 
Moluccan terrorists strike, take hostages 
ASSEN, Netherlands [AP]-South Moluccan militants, a fanatkal group that has terrorized Holland on and off for a decade, struck again yesterday, seizing a govern­ment building and SO to 60 hostages in a shooting attack that left at least six persons wounded, authorities said. 
The four to six gunmen were demanding freedom for comrades in Dutch jails and a plane to fly all of them, along with hostages, out of the country, government officials said. 
Police in armored cars quickly surrounded the modern-style office block in this northern Dutch city as the terrorists, said to be armed with pistols and at least one machine gun, fired bursts of bullets from upper-floor windows. 
Officials said they feared that one victim lying out of reach in front ofthe building might be dead. 
About 200 employees in. the building, headquarters of the Drente provincial government, managed to escape through win­dows some shinnying down fire­hoses, after the Moluccans stormed in. But some were gunned down from behind as they fled. 
One of the wounded was a schoolboy shot as he walked down a street, officials said. 
Militants among the South Mol­uccan immigrant community in Holland have made repeated terror strikes in recent years to dramatize their demands for Dutch help in winning independence from Indo­nesia for their Asian island home­land. The Moluccans and the rest of Indonesia are a former Dutch colony. 
The area around Assen, 112 miles northeast of Amsterdam, has been a focus of the Moluccan terror campaign, most recently last spring when gunmen seized hos­tages in a train and schoolhouse and held out for 20 days before 
Law school sponsors films 
A film series, "Significant Cases in Our Nation's History," will be presented today and tomorrow in the Notre Dame Law School. 
Notre Dame will be the first 
school in the nation to view these 
films, V'.•hich were produced under 
the auspices of the U.S. Judicial 
Conference. 
Today's films will be "Marbury 
v. 
Madison" at 12:15 p.m. in Room 101 and "McCullough v. Mary­land" at 4 p.m. in Room 110. Tomorrow's films will be "Gibbons 

v. 
Ogden" at 12 :15 in Room 101, and "The Trial of Aaron Burr" at 


3:30 p.m. in Room 110. 
Admission is free, and the public is invited. 
McClellan lecture cancelled 
The lecture, "The Development of the Modern Japanese Novel," has been cancelled. Edwin McClel­lan, professor at Yale University, had been scheduled to give this lecture this afternoon in the Rare Book Room of the Memorial Library. 
military assaults ended the sieges. Six terrorists and two hostages died. 
Police said yesterday's raid be­gan at about 10 a.m. as the Drente provincial council was about to meet in the building. There were reports at least two provincial legislators were among the hostages. 
One Moluccan rode up in a taxi and dashed into the main entrance, pulling out a concealed machine gun and opening fire, police said. The other gunmen ran in behind him. 
At the Justice Ministry in the Dutch capital of the Hague, a spokesman said a letter had been received demanding the release of imprisoned Moluccans and a plane to fly the gunmen, the freed convicts and hostages out of the country. 
The spokesman said 21 Moluc­cans are imprisoned for previous attacks, including seven for the 1977 raids. 
The government refused to give in to similar demands last year, insisting that the terrorists first release all hostages. 

to bust me, you can just wait until r get to Cuba ... " 
A voice identified as one of the plane's crew members told the FBI, ''The longer you delay, the more excited Clay (the hijacker) gets. As long as we are in the air, everything is cool." 
The man claimed to have a bomb hidden in a flight bag, airport authorities said in Oakland. 
The FAA said the man first demanded to go to Memphis but later said he might want to go to Cuba. 
An emergency command center was set up at the airport in Denver atop a five-story tower that is no longer used for regular flight control. 
FBI agents joined the Federal Aviation Administration and air­port officials in the command center, but there was no immediate indication of what action they planned. 
There was no activity near ·the plane when it first stopped. 
The FAA identified the alleged hijacker as Clayton Thomas of San Jose, Calif., but that name did not appear on the passenger list. He was described as 24 to 30 years old. 
The FAA said the man ordered 

the pilot, co-pilot and flight 
engineer to stay aboard. They 
were identified as Capt. A. Grout, 
First Officer J. Bard and Second 
Billiards champ to perform 

Paul Gemi, the pocket billiards world champion for the past three .years, will perform in the LaFor­
tune Pool Room tonight at 8 p.m. 
Gerni, a native of South Bend, has toured throughout the U.S. and Europe. He is considered to be one of the world's best trick shot artists. 
The Student Union Social Com­

mission is spon·soring the event. 
Admission is free. 

Officer L. Warfield. 
Fred Farrar of the FAA's office in Washington, D.C., said the man apparently did not say why he wanted to go to Memphis, but had told officials that he had terminal cancer. 
"This is the only way out," Farrar said the man told the crew. 
The jetliner, originally scheduled as flight 696 from San Francisco to Seattle, left Oakland shortly before 2 p.m., 5 p.m. EST. The man forced the plane down in Oakland just after it took off from San Francisco International Airport. 
One of the passengers said the plane had been in the air for about 10 minutes when the jet began its descent to Oakland. 
"There was no panic," said Cathy White of Danville, Calif. None of the passengers seemed 
to know what was happening, she said. 
The incident was the 13th attempted hijacking of a commer­cial jet in the nation since January 1975, the FAA said. 
Earlier yesterday, Delta Air Lines officials said a jet with 206 persons aboard was diverted to Denver during a flight between Atlanta and San Francisco because the airline's Atlanta office received a bomb threat. 
The plane landed safely and the 196 passengers and 10 crew members used emergency chutes to evacuate the plane. Police, firemen and FBI agents searched the plane, a Lockheed L-1011. Ed Gerity, a Delta spokesman said no bomb was found. 
There was no apparent connec­tion between the two incidents. 

Organizational Meeting 
for aft fh011 llllerested In running for Frelh., Soph., or Jr. Claa Oflicen. 
6:30 ruesday ,-atarch 14 1st Roor laFortune 
Religious Commission presents: 
''ON THAT DAY 
IN THE EAST BRONX'' 
a recently released film portraying a contemporary community's celebration of the Passion of Jesus Christ. 
Tuesday, March 14-6:30pm. Howard Hall 

r 
*The Observer 
an indepenent student newspaper serving notre dame and saint mary's 
The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinions and letters are the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and letters are encouraged to promote the free expression of varying 
opinions on campus.  
Business Manager Advertising Manager Production Manager  Sue Quigley Steve Bonomo Karen Chiames  BoxQ Notre Dame Ind. 46556  

EDITORIAL BOARD 

Marti Hogan Editor-in-Chief Martha Fanning Managing Editor Bob Brink Asst. Managing Ed Kathy Mills Executive Editor Maureen Flynn Editorial Editor Barb Breitenstein Exec. News Editor Jean Powley St. Mary's Editor Katie Kerwin News Editor Barb Langhenry News Editor Paul Stevenson Sports Editor Pat Cole Special Projects Ed. Tony Pace Features Editor 
Copy Editor Joan Fremeau Photo Editor Leo Hansen 

Tuesday, March 14, 1978 

seriously folks 
Solving the Coal Strike 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiii..__..__iiiiiiiiiiiiiii......__iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiQrf buchwald comme~tary 
Washington--We've been seeing an awful lot of miners on television these nights. Without taking sides in the dispute, the one thing that comes across is that they're a tough breed and very free spirits. They don't like to be pushed around by anybody, including the govern­ment, the courts, the President of the United States or their own union leaders. If anyone orders them to do anything, they have no hesitation in telling them to "Stuff it." 
It is for this reason that I do not believe invoking the Taft-Hartley Act makes any sense in getting the coal miners working again. It was written to give everyone a cooling­off period in a major labor dispute. But in the case of the coal miners it's made them hotter than ever, and more determined to hold out against the mine operators. 
I believe President Carter would be much further ahead of the game right now if he had gone on television last Thursday and an­nounced that during the Taft­Hartley period no miners would be permitted to go back to work. He should have said that, as President of the United States, he would see to it that not one ton of coal left any shaft of a union·operated mine, 

·­
-
-
(J) c·­
-
>--. 

...... 
·--
1... 0 
........ 
0 

~ 
even if he had to use troops. 
He also might have said that if the miners attempted to go to work without a contract, he would fine the unions $10,000 a day and ask the courts to hold them in con­tempt. 
Can you just see what would have happened if Mr. Carter had said that? 
The milters would have been in high dudgeon. 
They would have met in their union halls where their leaders would have broken the news to them. 
"Carter says we can't make coal unless we have a contract." 
"Down with Carter." 

"He says he's going to use the Taft-Hartley Act to keep us out of the mines instead of going down into them." 
"No President of the United States is going to tell us when we can or cannot mine coal. If we want to mine it, we'll mine." 
"He says he'll use troops and federal marshals to keep us out.'' 
"Let him try it. We'll break their heads with our pick axes if they won't let us down in the shafts." 
"We're sick and tired of the government telling us what's good for us. If they don't want us to 
mine, we'll dig out so much coal they'll choke on it." "We'll dump 300 tons on the White House lawn." "Suppose our union president, 
An Apology
Arnold Miller, says we can't go into the mines?" "Then we'll dump him on the 
and Response White House lawn with the coal." 
"All right then, are we agreed that if the court upholds the President and says we can't mine 
coal, we all go back to the pits?" 
"We're ready now, even before the court acts. Let's go into the mines and show them who is really running this country." 
"Any guy who refuses to mine coal gets his tires blown out." "Are we going back into the 
mines?" ''YESSSSSSSSSSSSS! '' "When?" ''NOWWWWWWWWWWW!'' "Shout it so they can hear in the 
Oval Office!" ''NOWWWWWWWWWWW!'' That's what President Carter 
should have done. But his problem is he doesn't watch enough tele­vision. 
[cl1978. Los Angeles Times Syndicate 

As editorial editor of The Observer, I owe the Notre Dame family an apology for too hastily assigning the Fords and the opinions expressed in their letter to that family. At the time I wrote the editor's note, I had compelling reasons--which came to my atten­tion after my conversation with Dr. Fuchs--to believe that the Fords were members of the Notre Dame family, as it is defined by Fr. Hesburgh. It was not until several days ago that I was able to contact a person who denied that such a connection existed. 
"Compelling reasons'' are not proof and I should not have printed that statement without proof. I am deeply sorry. The Fords'letter, as I indicated to Dr. Fuchs, came from South Bend. No other connection between the Fords and the Notre Dame community exists, to the best of my knowledge. 
I am somewhat distressed that the publication of the Fords' letter has become almost as big an issue as the opinions expressed in it. Let me state again that, regardless of the Fords' connection or with Notre Dame, I believe that letter should have been printed, and I would print it again. 
In this letter printed on this page, Prof. Primus accuses The Observer of wishing the issues would fade away. He apparently wishes the issue had never come up, i.e. that the Fords' letter had never been printed. Then no doubt we could all have rested comfortably in the belief that anti-Semitism is a thing of the past (except for these "freaks" in Skokie). Dr. Fuchs doubts that the Fords' views are representative of a "significant segment of the ... American com­munity." If he does not consider the American Nazi Party "sign­ificant," I beg to disagree. Significance is not measured by numbers. I hope The Observer, along with the rest of the community, has learned a great deal about anti­Semitism from reading the Fords' letter and the responses it has provoked, including: 
1) that anti-Semitism can mas­querade as or grow out of a perverted sense of patriotism. 
2) that the anti-Semitists pose a threat to fundamental, Constitu· tiona) rights. 
3) that the arguments advanced in support of anti-Semitism are based on distorted information and an indiscriminate jumbling of politics with race and religion. 
4) that anti-Semitism is not a credible platform at Notre Dame, as evidenced by the lack of support for the Fords' views and the swift, strong and sustained opposition to their letter. 

5) that despite the prevailing sentiment at Notre Dame, there are people in this country for whom anti-Semitism is not only credible, but desirable. 
The Observer in no way supports 

the anti-Semitic views of the Fords, 
but we do support their right to 
make their views known and the 
community's right to know that 
such views continue to be propa­
gated. We believe such opinions 
should be refuted, not suppressed. 
If we have not commented, it is 
because our readers have so over­
whelmingly and so capably add­
ressed the issues themselves. 
I would like to respond to the 

semantic points raised by Prof. 
Primus: 
First of all, "sect" as I used it applied not only to Jews, but to Catholics, Polish Americans and blacks as well. This is not a case of "callous ignorance," but of simple ignorance. I define "sect" as "a group united by common beliefs or heritage." I suppose this is the difference between the right word and the nearly right word, and I will happily change "sect" to "group." 
As for "libelous," I used the word in its legal sense, not its dictionary sense. 
"Obscene" is a word notoriously difficult to apply and should not have been used at all. Under a broad definition, "obscene" can be applied to anything that is offen­sive to a particular community or group; under a strict definition, it can rarely be applied at all. Even if the subject matter is such that it should offend everyone, i.e. anti· semitism or abortion, I don't think suppression is in order. 
Whether or not a particular letter is worth printing is necessarily a judgement call and does not depend on the degree to which the editor thinks the opinions in it are "right." The criterion applied may be the letter's ability to inform or to amuse readers, to reflect their own views or to jolt them out of their complacency with views that are radically different. 
In any case, I hope further debate on the subject will be addressed to the substance of the Fords' letter and not to the fact of its publica­tion. 
Maureen Flynn Editorial Editor The Observer 

Tuesday, March 14, 1978 the observer 
*Observer · 
Editorials 
. 


Lobotomy by Pat Byrnes 
... AAJb J/£ I/A5 HIS fim/Et's £rEs, 
I 

when our Student Union spends with films from the South Bend ·hear."), Matthew Ch. 17, vs. 10-12much time and effort to sign major public library, etc. The Student ("And his disciples asked himrock attractions, you sit on your Union could do much more to saying, 'Why then say the scribes 
seats and clap three times. broaden and expand the experience that Elias must first come?' AndWe the undersigned have of its student body, but it fails to do Jesus answered and said unto them attended nearly every rock concert so. 
'Elias truly shall first come andat the ACC for the past three years IUSB has a very provocative and restore all things. But I say untoand have finally reached the level educational film series each you that Elias is come already and 
of complete frustration. With the semester. I don't know if they lose they knew him not .. .' Then theexceptions of the Bruce Spring­money or not. But I do not see why disciples understood that he spokesteen and Crosby, Stills, ·and Nash our Student Union should do less 
unto them of John the Baptist."),
concerts, the audiences have been for its students than the SU of Matthew Ch.22, vs. 32-33 ('"God is very unreceptive. Last Thursday IUSB. 
not the God of the dead but of the students spent as much as $8.50 
living.' And when the multitude per ticket to see Michael Murphey heard this they were astonished at
·and America. Ifthese 'psuedo rock Ken Lamb '78 his doctrine.''), Revelations 13, vs.
fans" wanted to quietly listen to 10 ("He that leadeth into captivitymusic, why not play records and shall go into captivity; he that save $8.50? 
killeth with as well as many other
Read and 

Both performers played their scriptural passages too numerous
hearts out and deserved more to mention, I am challenging Fr.
write

audience response. We were lucky David Burrell, chairman of thethat America decided to play an department of theology, to a public ~ncore song, because the audience Dear Editor: 
debate on the existence of adit not deserve an encore! 
scriptural basis for the doctrine ofThe truly fantastic rock concert We would like to commend the reincarnation. 
must contain an enthusiastic ND-SMC World Hunger Coalition This challenge is not issued for
crowd, creating "electricity" to for the fine work involved in the 
anything approaching trivial
excite the performers to play and planning and execution of the Sun. 
reasons. It is my contention notsing beyond their studio level of March 12 workshop. The topic, merely that Jesus taught theperformance. Without audience "Investments, South African doctrine of reincarnation but alsoresponse, rock concerts are boring! Apartheid, and Notre Dame." 
that the Jewish scriptures areYou can still redeem yourself, covered several issues, one being absolutely meaningless once rein­student body. Play Dave the misuse of infant formula carnation is denied. In othermason--"Certified Live" full blast produced by corporations such as words, the God of Abraham, Isaac on a powerful stereo. Listen to the Nestles. 
and Jacob, the God of the living,audience response between songs. For those of us who did not whom Jesus referred to as hisThen try to equal that response this attend the workshop, this concern Father, is the precise antithesis ofWednesday night. You may be is addressed in the march 10 the Christian god. the god of thesurprised by the adrenalin that edition of The Scholastic. Helen dead. into whose presence all goodflows through your bodies. You Gallagher's article, "Of Formula Christians expect to enter only ­may even discover what rock and Famine," is a second example after they die. And, for logicalconcerts are all about. of the unheralded efforts of the reasons, it is impossible to believe 
Hunger Coalition to raise issues 
in both the God of the living and 
such as this for our consideration. 
the god of the dead simultaneously: Charlle DeFazio We encourage the ND-SMC after death there is either
Steve Del Greco community to read this article, and, reincarnation or heaven and hell. as was suggested at the workshop, 
The Roman church's denial of 
write a brief letter to Nestles
Film selection 
reincarnation is not the issue. 
voicing your concern or requesting
criteria 
Anyone who has investigatedmaterials stating their position: Christianity at all is well-aware that 
Nestles Corporation 

reincarnation is not even con­
Department of Public Relations 
sidered a worthy topic for 
100 Bloomingdale Road 
critiqued 

discussion. For the past several 
White Plains, New York 10605 
hundred years it has been either JohnKuluz completely ignored or staunchlyDear Editor: Barbara Ward denied by the theologians as being 
The recent articles on the merely "an Eastern concept". Student Union-Notre Dame Film Rather, the issue is whether or not Society debate over cultural films Burrell the denial of reincarnation itself 
deserve some comment. First. constitues a most radical perver­profit-making is a primary criteria sion of the meaning of the Jewish
issued

for choosing films. The old Cinema scriptures. series were discontinued primarily Since one of the purposes of a because they failed to make money Catholic university is to investigate 
challenge

(although the Cinema '77 series the meaning of the message of did run in the black). This is not as Dear Editor: Jesus and the other Jewish it should be--the Student Union At the Fifth Ecumenical Council prophets, it seems incumbent upon 
should provide services to the held in Constantinople in 553 less the theology department at such a student body, and can afford to lose than 200 prelates of the Roman university either to defend decis­a few hundred dollars here or there Catholic Church decided by ively, on the basis of the scriptures in doing so. A small group such as popular vote that the doctrine of as well as logical inference. the the Film Society does not have the reincarnation is untrue. But, while church's denial of reincarnation, or financial resources to do the same. the council's condemnation of the to acknowledge a long-standing 
Second, what is the purpose of position taken by the Origenists is perversion of the message of Jesus the films chosen? A recent letter to clear, the precise spriptural and of the msot massive proportions. the editor praised the Student logical basis for the condemnation If Rev. Burrell has too many Union for showing current films so is not immediately obvious. other responsibilites to have the that the student body "did not have On the basis of Matthew Ch. 11. time to respond to this challenge, I to leave the campus to see them." vs. 13-15 ("For all the prophets and will gladly debate any other This kind of isolationism is the law prophesied until John. member:-or members of the precisely what the Film Society is And. if you will receive it, this is theology faculty on this issue. trying to change. They are Elias which was for to come. He Michael CecU currently doing as much as possible who has ears to hear let him South Bend, Indians 
Point of 
clarification 
Dear Editor: 
Here's a point of clarification on the furor that has arisen in the wake of your printing of the letter from the Fords. While their viewpoint is obviously bigoted and personnally disgusting, nonethe­less, no where in the Constitutional provisions protecting freedom of speech does it modify that provision to only include free speech that meets some standard of good taste. 
The situation surrounding this letter is not dissimilar to that in Skokie, Ill. The American Nazi Party, as revolting as their point of view is, has the same right of public assembly and freedom of speech that the free-speechers had at Berkley and the Student Non-Violent Coordinating Com­mittee had in the South, both in the 60's. 
Therein lies one of the often distasteful aspects of our freedoms, but one we must live with and hope that by education and reason we can overcome the bigotries and hatreds latent in so many Americans. 
Gerald Lutkus South Bend Tribune 
Ford 

response
questioned 
Dear Editor: 
At last, The Observer has ex­plained (March 7) why it printed the anti-semitic letter of Mr. and Mrs. Bob Ford (Feb. 23). The Observer would have us believe that the letter, although opposing a "sect" (?), was not "libelous or blatantly obscene." Furthermore, The Observer states that it refrain­ed from comment for thirteen days "in order· to encourage response from our readers." 
Nonsense. If the charges that the Fords made are not libelous or obscene, then those words have lost whatever meaning they once conveyed. 
The Jewish people, the immedi­ate object of the attack in the letter, is not a "sect". The Observer betrays callous ignorance on this. 
Furthermore, I suggest that The Observer refrained from comment, not in order to encourage respon­ses, but rather in the hope that readers would let the issue fade away. Instead, members of the Notre Dame community continue to speak to the substance of the issue, attacking the disease of anti-sema­tism, a viscious form of racsim which in recent years has been responsible for the indiscriminant murder of millions of Jews and Christians and which has no palce inside this university community. 
By contrast to its readers, The Observer tries to evade the subs­tanitive issue by throwing up a smokescreen reference to "encou­raging discussion." This suggest two things. First. despite ample opportunity, The Observer has learned nothing about anti-semi­tism; that is a serious failing in a community committed to the search for the truth. And second, after being conned into publishing the Ford's letter (perhaps ingenu­ously mistaking it for anti-Israel opinion) The Observer lacks the courage and the humility to admit an error, now compounded by the pretense of standing outside (in effect, above) a debate; that is bad journalism. 
Yet, although the debate is 
phony, real damage has been done. Let there be no misunderstanding: until it issues an explicit (and intelligible) denial, The Observer is responsible for the implicit asser­tion that anti-semitism is a credible platform at Notre Dame. Respon­sible for creating this sad situation, The Observer alone can correct it. 
Charles Primus 
Assistant Profestior, Theology 

Editor's Note: See commentary by Editorial Editor Maureen Flynn elsewhere on these pages. 
Further 
did 

questioning 
Dear Editor: 
In reference to your response concerning the "Ford letter" of Feb. 23, I would like some clarification. The first reason given by you for printing that garbage states that the Fords are members of the Notre Dame family. Is this true? I called Ms. Maureen Flynn. the editorial editor, and she told me the Fords live in South Bend. She did not state that they had any connection with Notre Dame. Do they? Ifnot. I suggest a revision of your concept of the "Notre Dame family." 
Your fourth point justifying the printing of that letter is, in my opinion. absolute nonsense. Without getting into the question of whether or not it was "libelous or blatantly obscene," you are telling us that the views expressed therein are representative of "a significant segment of the campus. American or human community". I for one would like to know how you came to this conclusion? 
Morton S. Fuchs Professor of Biology 

Editor's Note: See commentary by Editorial Editor Maureen Flynn elsewhere on these pages. 
Where 's your spirit! 
Dear Editor: 
Where is _your "spirit," #1 student body in the world? You can scream and stomp and get rowdy at our football and basketball games, creating an "electricity" unmatched at any university. Yet 

r~·~~~~~~~-------­
r 6 the ObS8fV8[ Tuesday, March 14, 1978 
Parliamentary voting indicates French leftist alliance weakening 

PARIS[AP] -France's leftist alliance finished behind the coalition of President Valery, Giscard d'Estaing in first round parliamentary voting Sunday, seriously weakening leftist chance~ to end 20 years of center-right rule. 
There were signs that the shaky leftist alliance would have trouble uniti~JI time for next Sunday's runo 1 ction. 
The · nter-right coalition, how­ever. was expected to have little trouble uniting behind its strongt;st c:andidate in each race. 
The left had been expected to do substantialy better, with pollsters predicting it would take 54 percent. 
Socialist leader Francois Mitter­
rand blamed the poor showing on 
confusion created by the Com­
• munists over the issue of how much to nationalize if the left won. Communist nationalization demands greater than those of the Socialists led to a noisy quarrel that fractured the alliance last Septem­ber. 
Others said much of the prediction for Socialist success was based on apparent new support from educated middle-le~el execu­tives or government clerical workers. 
They say these Frenchmen, basically moderate, may have been more willing to complain to poll-takers than to actually vote for leftists intent on putting Com­munists into the cabinet. 
Complete returns from the 491 voting districts gave the leftists 
45.1 percent, with another 6.5 percent going to groups expected to vote left next Sunday. 
The ruling coalition got 46.5 percent, with an additional 1.9 percent going to voters who likely will back them on Sunday. 
Stock prices in Paris shot up an average of 10 percent as it became clear that the left lacked the 53 percent it was thought to need, because of gerrymandering. to win a parliamentary majority. 
Sunday's turnout was more than 83 percent of the nation's 35.4 million voters. a record in national parliamentary balloting. 
Historical film presented 
"Roots of Madness," a film about the Chinese Revolution, will be shown in the LaFortune Amphi­theatre tonight at 7:30 p.m. The documentary covers the period from the Opium War of the 1880's to the cultural revolution of the 1960's. 
Theodore White, author of The Making of a President, produced this film. Yu-ming Shaw, ND associate professor of history, will present an introduction to the showing, which is free and open to the public. 

(April10-16) 
Get up a group and Pitch In! You can help improve the environment around your college and have a shot at one of five $1,000 first place, five $500 second place, or five $250 third place educational awards, courtesy of Budweiser and ABC Radio. 
Any college, university, or approved organization 
(fraternities, sororities, campus groups, etc.) is 
eligible to participate. Just return the coupon 
for rules and "Pitch In!" Week program kit. 
Competition void where prohibited by law. 
KING OF BEERSB • ANHEUSER BUSCH INC • STLOUIS 
r Pitchthis in the mail! ~ 
To College P1tch In' Week Desk c/o ABC Rad1o Network 1330 Avenue of the Amencas New York New York 10019
I I
Please Rush College P1tch In' Week program k1t 
I 
I 
C1ly State Z1p Organtzal1on on Campus
I I 
\_ID•·I11 II) 
-~~~~··~ J 


---------------·-------------------------­
Survey estimates millions underfed 
Tuesday, March 14, 1978 
the observer 
7 

ROME [AP] -The U.N. Food and calorie intake per person soared to and six years old should have 1,800 Because of malnourishment, the record a steady increase in food Agriculture Organization reported 3,380. In the 32 poorest countries, calories a day and those between study said, about 40 percent of production--1.4 percent a year-­in a global survey yesterday that calorie consumption is on the seven and ten, 2,400 daily, the adult females in the developing production growth in the develop­the rich are getting fatter and the decline with the figure now around board said. The F AO study found countries are anemic, up to 100,000 ing countries declined from 0.7 poor hungrier. It found both trends 2,000, according to the study. that in the poorest countries close children go blind each year and 200 percent in 1970 to 0.3 percent in troublesome. to one-half of all children can be million suffer from goiter. In Latin 1974. In the "most seriously 
As a result, the percentage of the classified as underfed. It said America, more than half of all affected countries" there actually The 130-page World Food malnourished in the developing about 22 million babies a year, deaths during the second year of is a dtop in food production, Survey, based on reports from 161 countries of Africa rose from 25 one-sixth of all births, weigh less life are attributed to nutritional averaging 0.4 percent a year. FAO 
countries, also estimated the percent of the population in 1970 to than S.S pounds at birth, 9S percent deficiency. analysts called this decline "a new world's undernourished at about 28 percent four years later. A of them in developing areas. While the industrialized nations 1and most serious phenomenon." 
450 million, or a quarter of the · similar increase was noted in Asia. underdeveloped world, and likely to increase. The Food and Nutrition Board of 
the National Academy of Sciences 
Bill Bradley eyes Senate 
"'This review is disquieting,'' in Washington estimates that the 
FAO said. "Firm evidence of any average U.S. male between the [continued from page 1] audience that the other candidates significant progress being made ages of 23 and SO should consume 74 years otd. Former Knicks star have greater access to funds, which since 1974 in reducing the numbers 2,700 calories a day. American Though this is Bradley's first . is also of paramount importance. affected by inadequate supplies of females of that age bracket should attempt at an elective office, he career, Bradley was an overseas food is not yet available." take in 2,000, according to the maintains that he has prepared for correspondent for CBS radio. More "Money means media expo­board's 1974 figures, the most this for ten years. He taught in recentl'y, he served as the sure,'' Bradley said. "And that's In the rich and industrialized recent. For U.S. residents older 1968 at an Urban League street coordinator of special projects for why I support public financing of countries the FAO found "exces­than SO, the figures are 2,400 acadeniy in Harlem, and worked the New Jersey Department of elections after a candidate can get sive food intake or improper diets" calories daily for men and 1,800 for the following year in Washington, Energy. 10,000-1S,OOO signatures on a leading to "the steadily rising women. D.C. in the Office of Economic While Bradley acknowledged the netition." Still, Bradley insisted, prevalance of diseases" as daily American children between four Opportunity. fact that his basketball career is an "I don't want people to vote for me Before beginning his basketball advantage, he reminded the because I was a basketball player." 
-
FREE GREEN BEER 
NE£0 A 


/llll.tlngllll}lrl:
FUN J'OB'? 

AT
Positions now a.ra 
LEE'S Barbeque

NICKlES in'',_,, 
Dillion-sponsored
3 BEERS FOR h111iness office 
St. Patrick's Day Party
Tues 10-12 pm 
I intereslefl 1uhmlt 
THURSDAY, March 16 
Mon-Thurs retume IJf Tllllflay 
3-----­
5-7 pm 

(Plea• lewe It In fh• 
with Miller Beer
Burger & Beer 
Feature~ mailhox)
$1.50 

First Keg is on the House!!! 
••••••••••e••••••••••••••,••••••••••-•••••••••·•••••••••;••••••
~ Found: 1Ford key on Kawasaki key chain Need ride to Alburquerque, New Mexico Two girls need ride to 0' Hare -Thurs., Paula-•
M d 

,.. 'I• in Huddle. Joe 6795. for break. Will share expenses and March 16 between 3 and 6. Call Julie
• 
With your "borrowed" book the tune-up. 
• 
~j •t;l driving. Call Debbie at 4-1-4898. (1675) or Maria (1318). 
was a snap. Thanks for that and for last
Lost: 2 keys with No. 623 on them on a ----------------­
night! (But who gave you the lube job?) •
Penny keychain. Call Joe 6795. Need ride for three to the Big Apple, New Ride needed to Tampa-Clearwater area or 
• AtJg 
--------------York City for spring break. We can't North Jersey for break. Willing to share NOTICES Lost: Black leather hockey skates with a afford the train so call Tom, Doug, or driving and expenses. Call leave March Bodle & Brian • 
• piece of yellow tape Inside each skate. John 3414. 17. Please call Rob 1145. 
• Dissertations, manuscripts, etc. Typed. Left in South Dining Hall's coat rack area. ----------------------------------·
To Pam, Vicki, M.B. Emil, Mike, Sean, • 
IBM Slectric 11. Linda's Letters. 287-Ph. 3171. Two students need ride to Fort Myers, Need ride to Cincinnati for break. Call BJ, Kathleen & Karen -Thanks for.
• 4791. Fla. or vicinity for spring break. Will Tina 4-1-4155. 
making our 21st full of surprixes. Pat & 
-----------------Lost: Near the Library Bar, a set of keys share driving and expenses. Call Bian at -----------------­
Claudia P.S. Thanks 3rd floor McCan-.
•
. . Get to class or work on time. Call Bob's to Rm. 217. If found, call Patty, 4287. 1153. 2SMC girls looking for ride to Columbus dless for all your help. •
Wake-up Service. 287-4971. ---------------Ohio March 17. Will share expenses. Call
• 
. Lost: One expensive black ski glove near Need ride to Boston area March 17. Will Carol 4-1-4868. 
Trace, Tyler & Katie, Thanks for the •
• 
Typing done in home. Fast accurate North Dining Hall on Feb. 21. Give my share driving and expenses. Call Tony at ----------------­


extra special touch on my birthday! • 
• 
reasonable. Close to campus. Call 272-hand a break and call1653. 1436. Desperately need ride from ND to So. Claudia 7866

• anytime. Lc;;t':1;~n~;fu;e bo;;t"s~lost in ACC Need ride to Los Angeles over break. Call ~~d~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ --------------.
Congratualtions to AI Provenzano on his 
• Accurate, fast typing. Mrs. Donoho b-ball courts above ice rink. Silt. night. Debbie 8485. Need ride to Columbus on Thursday. Call forthcoming wedding with Collette. • 
232-0746 Hours 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. Call Mike 1759. Kelley 4-1-5258. • -------------------------------Ride needed to NY State area for spring ------------------To the futur;iitti;;d shoemaj;~glad to. Typing. Reasonable rates. Call 8051. Found: 2keys on key ring in snow back of break. Call Sharon 4-1-4276. I'd shave my beard for a ride to New see you are still breathing. Happy belated • 
• 
-------------thbeseArvCeCr byff.tceen.nis courts. May claim in Jersey. Bruce 3587. _bir_th_da_y.22 isn_'tt_ha_to_ld_!_sh_orty__ •
Every student can vote in the May 0 0 1 Need ride to D.C.area after Emil. Bob ----------------­
• 
Indiana primary -If interested, register WANTED 8643. FOR SALE Hank & Duffy, 1stopped by last week. 
• before spring break by calling Mo at -------------(Wednesday night) but you weren't 
4 1 4001 Need ride to St. Paul. can leave Thurs. or Need ride to Colorado during spring ND fight song automobile horn for sale. h I'll . h h •
• --· break. Call Max 3510. Contact Kathy 2114-4385 for info. ome. give you anot er c ance , • ------r;i;gD-;;-n-;----~~ih~~~-hare driving and expenses. ----------------some~~this~eek. ___ G • 
Reasonable Rates -------------Need ride to NYC area. Can leave '75silver Camara. Terrific buy. Gala Nela The PLAGUE is on the prowl. 3_0 looking.
• 272-0342
Call 8086 Need 1or 2rides for spring break to down Thursday afternoon. Call Irene (6733) or · for 4-0 after break. Keep it up, you are • -----------------state N.Y. (I. 80 or I. 84) Coleen 7815. Janet (1364). great! 2(Moms) Plaguettes • 
• ~~afi~ i~;;~~i~t1o~~~~e~\~: Jt~ee CMoeunnttyal ------------------Believ;-it;;:-;;;;t,~~;;;t;;;;;-;ore Fun~cili,-;-Cott;-&.;;1-;c"tu-;;;;;o-; ------Ty-ping done ------• 
2people need ride to D.C. area for break. riders to Florida (Gulf coast, preferably). available. Call 8982. 
needs your support. 0ne to one voIun-Will help with expenses. Can leave C Reasonable rates •
• 11 8051
teers are needed to aid in the social-Thurs. afternoon. Call 8525 or 2172 after a · ----------------------~~8086_______ • 
• ization or emotionally restored men and 11:00 p.m. Ne-;-d-~;-;-E~;~Oe-;11-s-ha-re Pion~er CTR·i1~11A$43t0ape .dlleck,l·l Kf LH$·2107X 
________________ spea ers. e a1 • WI se or 0. Gr1·zz Nell1"st for U M 0 C •
Women Call Mary Anne Mulcahy 288­
• 4504 o.r Joe Hauflaire at the MHA Needed ride to Houston for spring break. expenses. Him 2187. Call Terry 3014. _____:_....:._....:_....:.______ • ~34_:_~~------------~~~~~~~~_:________ H";;;t~D.C.Ior bre;k?-fh;wa;~;on 19nr~;-;;~~~-;;;;-~~~;.A.Ii HairGuts, trims, styles-cheap! SMC 4530 • 
• Fast and accurate typing done at home Going to Boston? Need ride, will pay Alumni Club needs you at a party. Call white, radial tires, under coat, 4-speed. Betsy • · f b t d T 1 h 2'88 6064 ' expenses. Call Ann 5751. Melanie 6892. Great mileage: 26-35 miles per gallon. ----------------­
• or usy s u ents. eep one -or _________________ Mint condition. 5.000 miles. Call· 232_ Free 3 mo. old puppy (part Boxer) Call • 289-3279. ---------------_ 272-2520 after 3 p.m. •
1374
• ---------------Need ride to New York March 17. Will Stage manager and stage crew for --------------­NEED QUALITY TYPING? Executary, share driving and$$$$. Please call Tom Student Players production of Come Blow --------------w · w ld y h t"l 10 A ·1 • • Inc. Professional Typing Service IBM at 3828. Your Horn by Neil Simon (performances Vivitar Zoom lens, 85-205 mm Minolta to a~~~~~re ~~r :caf~eri~~e ~hulloug~1s • Correcting Selectrics. $.85 per page ------------------April 20, 21, 28, 29). Meeting for all' mount, $130, Ruxx 288-2069. b-day!
• 
. . C II 232 0898 "Wh N d "d t T I d M h 17 W"ll interested 8:30 Wednesday night LaFor-PERSONALS
mm1mum. a -en you ee n e 0 0 e 0 on arc · · 1 t_un_e_Ra_th_sk_el_lar_o_rca_l_lM_a_ure_e_n68_56_._ ---------------•
• want the Best" Resumes: $3.00 per pay. Kim 7856. SMC Juniors: oon'tforgetto get ready to G, You were right, Michael Murphy 
• page. ----------------Need ride to Albany New York. Call dance the night away April 9th at wildfire. • -RA-T-IO-N-BRAIN-ST-O-RM-~A-n-ld-e-as Need ride to and from Boston-Providence aBmrucuent.at 8992. Wilt pay exorbitant Cinnabars...more later. ---------------•
OPE
• 
for break Wi"ll pay $$ Call Maryanne 0 Dear Discoing Lyonettes, Go ahead,

• 
contest open to the NO community will _ · · ----------------Jimmy;---------------dance your buns off -I don't care. You're.


4 4762. 

run until Wednesday. Anyone with an ______________ Need ride to Boston for 2 people share You've shown me the rainbow. Let's all delerious and beyond all hope. Cure • idea to improve NO is asked to enter. $50 Need ride to Pittsburgh for break. Will driving and$. Call 5236 (SMC) keep searching lor the pot of gold. I love No. 1 -a cold shower. The Disco Kid • first prize, $25 second prizes and a $10 share driving and expenses. Call Rich -----------------------------~ • 
• third prize will be offered. 8278 after 11 :30 p.m. • Need ride to st. Louis, will share driving you. Always, Lenten confessions heard Monday thru 
j

• LOST & FOUND ----------------and expenses. Call Larry after six ---------------~~ Saturday at Sacred ~e~rt beginning at • . . . Need ride to Detroit for spring break. 232-4499. Pat · 7:00p.m. Anyone w1sh_mg to m~ke an • 
• 
Lost. A gold round monogram pm With Leaving March 17 Also need ride back to -------------• . appomtment for confession at a different the _initials ABM. If found please call NO on March 27. ·call Katie 6751. Ride needed to Ft. Lauderdale for spring Remember If the floor was hard the bed time may phone Campus Ministry at 6536 • 

• 
A~e at SMC 4644. _ ~ak Jo.Jl!.l1.lll7 was empty. or 3820.


............................................................ 
----:___ ---------------­
r 
Tuesday, March 14, 1978
the observer 
Undefeated fencers look to tourney 
by Paul Mullaney is slated for Wisconsin-Parkside, the NCAA. Sports Writer the same location of Notre Dame's Notre Dame's NCAA entries 78-61 outdistancing of Wayne State were by no means shoo-ins to make 
It took 44 years for Notre Dame for the 1978 Great Lakes title. it to the championship tourney. to claim a national collegiate Gerard and Sullivan are no They didn't have to look any farther fencing championship. But after novices when it comes to than right under the Dome to catch completing its third consecutive tournament competition. Gerard. a a glimpse of some stiff competition undefeated season, the Irish senior from Norridge, Ill. won the 
Gerard finished second in last
fencing team stands an excellent gold medal in foil a year ago. 
weekend's Great Lakes bouts
shot at winning its second crown in leading the Irish to grab the crown 
behind gold-medalist teammate 
as many years. in their own back yard. His 145-19 
Mike McCahey, who represented
The long draught was broken last career mark puts him second on the 
du Lac in both 1975 and 1976 at the 
years when Mike DeCicco's all-time Notre Dame foil winning 
national tourney. However, due to
swordsmen stormed stormed list. only behind current coach 
his overall record and clutch
through a 23-0 season and defeated DeCicco. 
ped'ormances--such as last year's
New York University in the first Sullivan is one of the top fencing 
NCAA tourney--Gerard was given
fence-off ever in history of the names in the country. Last year's 
the nod to head up to Kenosha this
NCAA fencing championships. titlist in sabre. the junior from weekend.
Pat Gerard. Mike Sullivan, and Peabody Mass.. owns the top Bjorne Vaggo. after qualifying for winning percentage of any fencer Sullivan was the favorite to win the nationals with impressive ever to step on the strip at Notre the sabre medal last week. And he 
performances at last weekend's Dame. In 143 career dual meet did. But sophomore Chris Lyons, a 
Great Lakes tournament, will bouts. Sullivan has only lost twice. first-year fencer, pleasantly sur­represent the Irish in foil. sabre Vaggo is just beginning to make prised a few people by finishingand epee. repectively, at this a name for himself on the collegiate third in the Great Lakes epeeweekend's national tourney. fencing circuit. The amazing competition, barely ahead of Kica. 
The NCAA title competition epeeist was ranked tenth nationally A J0-2 opening season record, commences this Thursday, with in Sweden before enrolling at coupled with 19-2 showing last 
semifinal action on Friday preceed­Notre Dame this January. He was week, was enough to let Vaggoing Saturday's final round. Action granted three years of eligibility by represent Notre Dame. ::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 
The first two teams at the Great Lakes (Notre Dame and Wayne State) could place one inividual per weapon in the national tourney,
The Other Series ... 
while the top four individuals in each weapon qualified. However, 
that Cleveland State and Wayne championships with an 11-0 mark. 
if more than one person per 
State will give us all the fits we Wayne State won the women's 
::::::::::::::::::-:·:::':::::::::::-:-:-:-:·:.:-:.:-:-:.:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::·One Man's View weapon from a given school met (sabreman Ernie) competition with 30 points. Notre
need. With that criterion, only one would be Simon. (foilsman Carl) Klutke. and Dame finished a distance back with ITEM: Irish leers Fall to Number-One Ranked Denver 
able to fence this weekend. 

(epeeist Gil) Pezza Wayne State 12 points.
Lost amidst the publicity surrounding Notre Dame's impressive Notre Dame had all six has to be one of the teams to beat. 
Sharon Moore, St. Mary'sfirst-round basketball victory in the NCAA tournament was the exploits representatives at the Great Lakes If the whole was in attendance. I freshman fencing flash, made it toof the Notre Dame hockey team in Denver this past weekend. 
meet the necessary requirements, don't know if they'd be able to the semi-final round of the GreatAll the hockey team did was play the best collegiate hockey team in but DeCicco had to decide which make that claim." 
Lakes. Never having fenced priorthe country even for five periods on their home ice. Unfortunately, the fencer in each classification would Regardless. the long hours of to this year, her performanceplayoff series lasted six periods and, consequently, Notre Dame's advance. All of which supports practice are almost over now. With brought a big smile to the face ofhockey season came to an end Saturday night. 
DeCicco's claim that the NCAA 85 consecutiv~ . wins under their her coach, Tom Coye.
But the tale of this team is far too impressive to end in a game story fencing tournament has never been belt. the Irish we{e never better,
in Monday morning's sports section. If one only looked at the final And ;who said · the managers
a true "team" championship either individually or as
score of the series, then the full impact of the weekend would be lost. a team. never get any rc!cbgnition? Well,
tournament. Hopefully. if the Irish receive the
Instead, one should hear about the 100 out of 120 minutes that the Irish two weekends ago; at Cleveland,
same type of luck and clutch
thwarted the Denver attack. One should have heard Denver "Opening up is the possibility senior fencing manager AI Paulus
performances as last year. Notre
defenseman Brian McAlister state after the game that "you guys had for more teams having a shot at it got the opportunity to fence in two
Dame will receive its second
us scared.'' (title) with a single entry in each varsity bouts. After dropping his
straight .fencing crown.

It took a lot of guts for the Irish icers to pull together for one valiant weapon." argued DeCicco. "Pen first encounter, the resident of attempt at a major upset. The team had just completed a six-game, ''Penn will be tough. as well as IRISH IT~:~Kathy Valdiserri Holy Cross finished his collegiatenine-day road swing in which they had dropped five of the six games. NYU. Princeton and Navy. finished sixth in, the women's fencing career with an earth-shat­They were coming off a 12-1 loss at Wisconsin that Badger fans treated "The Great Lakes proved to me competition at the Great ".Lakes tering 1-1 record. as humiliation. And they were flying to Denver without three front-line 
·:.l.
forwards. 

So, coach Lefty Smith and co-captains Terry Fairholm and Dick *Observer " · Batton, Williams praised
Howe instilled a spirit in the team that surprised everyone in Denver, including flying to Denver without three front-line forwards. 
Senior co-captains Dave Batton Athlete Award presented by the St. 
For a period and a half Saturday night, the Irish entertained visions ·... sports and Don "Duck" Williams were Joseph Valley Club of Notre Dame of a stunning upset. Len Moher played one of the outstanding games 
• .1.. -\ •• named the Most Valuable Players to the player who best exemplifies
. "'!•

in his career in staving off Denver's high-scoring forwards. But a bad on the 1977-78 Notre Dame the spirit of the scholar-athlete who bounce gave Denver the tying goal and e1e dam broke. 
Basketball Team at the annual has contributed his skill and ability Friday's score had people around the WCHA, especially in Madison B-Ball tickets in the class room no Jess than onawards banquet last evening. 
and Houghton, shaking their heads. But it really shouldn't have. This the field. 
to go on sale Batton. a native of Springfield.
team could have folded their tents, as Smith would aptly say, a long Pennsylvania. paced the squad this The Most Accurate Shootertime ago. But they played to the end, and for that, they can be proud. 
season with 14.4 points per game. Award to freshman forward KellyPride is a virtue that is disappearing in many circles of sport. Class, Student tickets for the second The 6-9 forward connected on an Tripucka The 6-7 native of Essexin accepting defeat graciously, is another of those virtues. However, round of the NCAA Basketball impressive 57.9 percent of his shots Falls. New Jersey connected onneither of those virtues is disappearing under the north dome of the Tournament will go on sale today while finishing second on the team 60.7 percent of his field goalACC. at the second floor ticket windows in assists with 73. Shooting attempts and 73.7 percent of his
of the ACC from 9 am to 12 noon.
ITEM: Rodock's Rhythms specialist Duck Williams played a attempts from the line.

Tickets are twelve dollars and
No mention of biorhtythms at Notre Dame would be complete key role for the Irish this season in
include three games--the double­The Best Defensive Player
without crediting John Rodock, Notre Dame's hockey manager, the both a starter and reserve capacity.
header on Friday and the champ­Award was shared by junior center 
first person to apply biorhythms to athletics at Notre Dame. The 6-3 guard stole the ball 43
ionship game on Sunday. Bruce Flowers and sophomore
Rodock. who credits the introduction of the concept to his mother, times this season to lead the squad swingman Bill Hanzlik. Flowerscorrectly predicted the outcomes of five out of six Irish hockey games Tickets cannot be separated for in that category. He displayed the has won this award each one of his using biorhythms. At Ann Arbor· in early February, Rodock correctly the individual sessions, and will be most proficiency at the free-throw three years at Notre Dame bypredicted an Irish sweep, coming only three goals away from the actual sold on a first-come, first-serve well, online as connecting virtue of his aggressive play andscores. basis. Because of the limited 77-percent of his attempts. For his rebounding ability. The 6-9Maybe biorhythms are not yet established as a legitimate means of supply of tickets at Notre Dame will efforts. Duck was awarded the Fr. 
defensive specialist snared 134predicting outcomes of sporting events, but Rodock has proven to be receive, students will be limited to Tom Brennan Award which rebounds for the Irish this season.
more accurate than the darin~ Jimmy the Greek. 1 (one) ticket apiece. Present only signifies the squad's best foul ITEM: Hoosiers Benefit From NCAA Seeding Process your own ID card. shooter" The 6-7 Hanzlik will long be 
remembered for his defensive
Would someone please explain to me how Indiana was sent to the Williams a'nd Batton were also performance against MarquetteEastern Regionals of the NCAA tournament as the top-seeded at-large inducted · into •the Notre Dame this season when he held Butch Lee team while DePaul and Notre Dame were exiled to the Midwest FCA to meet 1.000-Point club at the banquet. 
to three field goals in 15 attempts
Regionals? The N,otre Dame chapter of FCA Williams has accumulated 1.338 Perhaps it was because the Big Ten is still smarting over its (Fellowship of Christian Athletes) points in his four-year career to in the last 25 minutes of the game. embarassment in post season football action and (s attempting to is having a meeting Wednesday move into sixth place on the He is fourth on the squad with 14 
steals and he has 44 rebounds to
continue upgrading its basketball program. After all, Michigan State night at 7 p.m. in the Little Theatre all-time Irish scoring list. Batton also wound up in the bracket opposite Kentucky and Marquette as the of LaFortune for-;11l interested scored 1.158 points. putting him in his credit. Big Ten was seeded as the top conference in the Mideast Regionals. students and local high' school FCA 12th place. Most Assists Award to sopho­
And, just by coincidence, Big Ten Commissioner Wayne Duke members. Sophomore Center Bill Laimbeer more point guard Rich Branning. happens to be the man who was in charge of the seeding and A film of Ty Dickerson will be · was :l.lso recognized this evening as Once again this season the 6-3 field invitations. How else could one explain this action which makes a farce shown and Tv Dickerson himself both the team's top rebounder and general paced the squad in this of the NCAA's new tournament procedure? will be on hand to answer questions most improved player. The 6-11 category with 108. 
There is no way that Indiana deserved the nod over the Blue·Demons about the film and his faith. Also, native of Toledo, Ohio, who Most Inspirational Player Award and the Irish. The Hoosiers barely crept into a second-place tie in the short talks will be given by Dave returned to the Irish after a year's to senior guard Jeff Carpenter. The Big Ten after a slow start and couldn't match the accomplishments of Reeve and Rich Branning. absence, averaged 21 minutes and 6-0 sparkplug from Oak Park, twice-beaten DePaul or the Irish. Afterwards, a football highlights 6.4 rebounds-per-minutes-played Illinois led the team in assists-per­
Indiana could only have been sent to the East or Midwest Regionals film will be shown for anyone average on the team. He was also minute and had a team-high nine since they were the second representative of the Big Ten. But, to send interested. voted the squad's Most Improved assists against Manhattan College. them to the Eastern Eight, the weaker of the two, while Notre Dame Player. Aside from the awards presenta­and DePaul stand a chance of meeting in the Midwest finals, was a Senior reserve Randy Haefner tion, the highlight of the evening travesty. Erratum was recognized as the team's Blue was the appearance of Bill Bradley, 
If Wayne Duke really wants to make things interesting, next year Joe Cooler is the Boxing Club Team· Player of the Year for his former New York Knick great and he'll arrange to bing the Ivy League football champion to the Rose Bowl president, not Danny Romano as work on the preparation team. candidate for the United States instead of the Pac-8 champion. That .ga.me might be close,.,,. reported in·yesterday's Observer. · Additionally, he won the Student-Senate. 
.. 




