
seem ready for atypical N.D. winter. (Photo by Lee Sender) 
~;ecurity task force formed 
by Frank LaGrotta 
As a result of a study of campus security procedures, a task force has been established to make evaluations and recomendations regarding security services at Notre Dame. The task force will be comprised of five students and will be under the direction of Student Security Coordinator Phillip Johnson. The group will report on a regular basis to the Student Body President regarding their activities Findings and rccomendations. 
"For the most part, students are responsible for their own security," .Johnson said in a writ­ten proposal to Student Body President Andy McKenna. "much of this responsibility has been delegated to the security depart­ment and consequently. we, the student body must see that they are carrying out their duties. 
"Furthermore, the student body should see that the security depart­ment is con<,tantly looking for better ways to serve the commun­ity. If security's procedures and activities go unchallenged, then we, the student body, must claim partial responsibility for their shortcomings and failures." 
The new task force, according to Johnson, will insure that the cur­rent suggestions of the security audit are implemented while serv­ing as a Iiason between the security department and the student body. The group will attempt to evaluate the procedures of the department and make necessary recomendat­ions based on their findings. Student complaints regarding sec­urity will also be dealt with. 
The new task force comes as a result of a campus security survey conducted by Security Audit Inc., an independent firm based in Illinois. According to Assistant Provost Sister John Miriam Jones, the audity was requested by the Committee to Evaluate Co-educat­ion at Notre Dame. 
"The committee asked us to 
check up on things on campus and 
as a result the summer-long audity 
was conducted," Sister Jones said. 
[continued on page 4] 
Indiana jury indicts Ford Motors for unsafe Pinto conditions 
Elkhart, Ind. [API • An Indiana grand jury indicted Ford Motor Co. yesterday on criminal charges stemming from a fiery, triple-fa­tality Pinto automobile crash, say­ing the automaker knew Pinto fuel tanks were unsafe but did nothing about it. The Elkhart Superior Court panel said the tanks were "recklessly designed and manufactured in such a manner as would likely cause the Pinto to flame and bum upon rearend impact, and that the Ford Motor Co. had a legal duty to warn the general public." 
The indictment, the first of its kind in an auto defects case, charged Ford with three counts of reckless homicide and one count of criminal recklessness. Maximum penalties would total $36,000 in fines. 
Los Angeles safety consultant Byron Bloch, whose testimony helped bring the indictments, said the indictment "clearly sends a message. to Ford and the rest ofthe auto companies that they must start gettig serious about this and shape up their act immediately with regard to fuel tank safety." 
Ford called the action unprece­dented and "unwarranted" and said it had not broken any Indiana laws. H.R. Nolte Jr., Ford vice president and general counsel, said in a brief statement released in Detroit that the automaker would study the indictment and "take appropriate action.'' 
Elkhart County Prosecutor Michael A. Cosentino said he expected Ford to challenge the indictment, which he described as "certain to make law." 
The charges stemmed from the Aug. 10 deaths of Judy Ulrich, 18, of Osceola, Ind., her 16-year-old sister, Lynn, and their cousin, Donna Ulrich, 18, of Roanoke, Ill. The three girls burned to death when their 1973 Pinto sedan ex­ploded upon impact after being hit from behind by a van on a northern Indiana highway. The driver of the van, Robert Duggar, 21, of Goshen, was not indicted because "al­though he may have been negli­gent, we do not believe it consti­tuted a criminal act," the grand jury said in its report. 
"The thrust of the state's case 
will be to show that the design, 
engineering and manufacturing of 
the Ford Pinto was inappropriate 
and recklessly done, that Ford 
came to know of the cars defects 
and did nothing about 
it," Cosentino said. 
The Pinto in which the Ulrich 
girls died was' one of 1.5 million 




A task force has been formed to make recommendation• regarding seearlty eervlces. [Photo by Lee Sender] Pinto and Mercury Bobcats made between 1971 and 1976 that Ford recalled in June because of govern­ment complaints about the fuel tank. Ford denies the tanks are any more susceptible to explosion that other small cars of those model years, when no federal rear-end collision standards existed. 
Indianapolis attorney William Conour, who helped draft the 
Indiana penal code under which the action was brought, said despite the fact that the state had no fuel tank safety requirements when the car was manufactured, "what counts is what happened on Aug. 10." 
He added that although the penalties for criminal charges were not as stringent as civil daml!_ges might be, "the very nature of criminal prosecution is an induce­ment for others. Once a corpor­ation has been prosecuted or convicted of a crime, it has a certain stigma in its own right." 
The grand jury could have indict­ed individual Ford executivs, but chose to charge only the corpora­
[contlnaed on page 3] 


TIAA charges retirement benefits discrepancies 
by Ruth Kolcun 

Retirement benefits for women professors at Notre Dame are less than for male professors, objects Thomas L. Shaffer, president of the American Association of University Professors (AAUP) Chapter in a letter to University President theodore Hesburgh. 
Hesburgh replied to Shaffer that he would study the matter. "'He was reluctant to jump to any conclusions," says Shaffer. 
"Because Hesburgh is on the board of directors of the Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association (TIAA), we feel that he will have more opportunity to influence the problem on a national scale," says Dr. Alberta Ross, associate profes­sional specialist in the radiation lab since 1964. Dr. Ross is also the new chairman of committee W of the AAUP, which deals with the status of women in academics. 
Retirement benefits for Notre Dame professors are paid under an annuity plan by the TIAA, in which both university and the professors contribute into a fund. Most uni­versities use this TIAA plan. 
Because the standard mortality tables show that women tend to live longer than men, retirement bene­fits under the TIAA plan are lower for women, even though they contribute equally. 
"However," says Professor Joan Aldous, holder of the William Kenan chair in sociology, "if you go beyond the life tables, because women live longer, they have a higher probability of costly degen­erative diseases to take care of despite lower pensions." 
Sarah Daugherty, assistant pro­fessor of English, responds to the mortality tables. "People should be considered as individuals not members of a class. It would be like charging higher rates to non· smokers bec.mse on an average they live longer than those who smoke." 
Dr. Ross says Committee W has been interested in women· s retire­ment issue for many years. "It is a problem seen in most universities­monthly retirment benefits based on sex. We feel there is a possibility of reform because of the recent court cases. Now that a legal precedent has been set. we are hopeful it will change." 
This year, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled in a California retire­ment case that a difference in retirement benefits between men and women was illegal and that such a plan violated the federal Civil Rights Act of 1964. 
An "equal protection" clause in the U.S. Constitution and the Indiana Constitution states "men and women are entitled to partici­pate equally in the right to receive payments from a fund made up of the contributions of teachers." Indiana Supreme Court upheld this clause in a 1977 case involving teachers in Evansville. 
Dr. Ross says, "Michigan State legislature requires employers to provide equal periodic benefits in their retirement plans. Michiana ia is a fertile spot. That is one reason why here in Indiana we feel there is more of a chance for women's retirement reform here than in other states." 
The AAUP chapter will discuss racial, sexual and religious discrim­ination at its first meeting, at 4 P.M., Monday, September lS at the University Oub. 


Thursd1y, Saptem bar 14, 1978
2___tbe obseJYet _ 
,_News Briefs_____ 


Disk jockeys meet with Roemer 
t=-::-:=================-=-===========World 
by John McGrath 

was given for the two students to alumnus who was present alongDean of Students James Roemer tell their side of the story as well as with a group of friends at the
UN resolution rejected 
met Wednesday with the two an opportunity to defend their station at the time of the incident. WSND disc jockeys involved in last actions. Any use of alcohol on the station SAN JUAN, Puerto Rico [API -Gov. Carlos Romaro Barcelo 
Saturday's incident in whichthe two Roemer said the two did admit premises or any lewdness on the air rejected a U.N. resolution calling for self-determination for Puerto 
were alledged to have violated that they were drinking. They also is not only prohibited by universityRico because the committee that adopted it refused to recognize the 
university drinking regulations and revealed, however, that question­regulations, but WSND and Puerto Ricans' right to choose statehood within the United States. 
used vulgar sexual references over able comment that dealt with Federal Communications Commis­Three of the four major Puerto Rican parties hailed the resolution 
the air. someone's girlfriend "giving good sion (FCC) guidelines as well. adopted in New York Tuesday by the U.N. Special Committee on 
Roemer said that an opportunity phone" was actually made by an A report of the incident has been Decolonization because it approved their goals: improved 
filed with the FCC, a move that is commonwealth status, advocated by the Popular Democrats, and 

University Press publishes 
required by law. WSND's station independence, the goal of the small Independence and Socialist 
·license will come up for renewal in parties. 
April.


philosophy of science book 
"It wguld be a great embarass­
1================-============:::::::-Nationa) 
owned artists as Edward Albee, • 
•
Showers and scattered thunderstorms through tonight and 

Pete Seeger and Karl Shapiro • Spm-1 am •
ending tomorrow morning. Cooler tomorrow. High today upper 
Any sophomore who would like • 
70s. Low tonight low to mid 60s. High tomorrow low to mid 70s. 
to work for theSophomore Literary • 
MIllERS NIGHT''' •• 
Festival is reminded that there is • 
~~~~r~~~onto c!t~t J~~ol~~~ley F~~ : • • • :

~On Campus Today_ ___,_. 
1595 
· : • 12 oz. mug for $1.75 : 
The University Press has published a book on the philosophy 
of science of American philosopher Charles S.S. Peirce, written by Dr. Nicholas Rescher, professor of 

Fugitives loose in Arkansas 
MORO, Ark. [API -A single-engine airplane, hijacked by four 

philosophy at the University ofTennessee prison escapees armed with pistols and a shotgun, Pittsburgh. •landed yesterday night in eastern Arkansas, after the escapees shot Reschcr's critical studies of
their way to freedom wounding a guard and a fellow inmate. 
Peirce's theory of induction andArkansas State Police Sgt. Jerry Reinold said that after the green scientific method grew out of a and white Cessna 182 landed in a field near Moro in rural Lee series of ''Perspectives in Phil-County, the convicts comandeered a pickup truck and its driver, 
Ricky Rutledge, and sped toward Brinkley on Arkansas 159. 
Film change


LA schools boycotted 
announced

LOS ANGELES (API-Minority schoolchildren rode for hours on school buses to integrated schools but found many of their 
"Three Days of the Condor" will classmates -mostly white -had stayed home as Los Angeles began be shown instead of "Catch 22"on 

busing to achieve racial balanc. But officials in the nation's second Thursday and Friday nights. Film largest school district, stung by reports of a white boycott on the times are at 7, 9: IS and II :30 p.m.
first day of school Tuesday, predicted today's attendance would in the Engineering Auditori•Jm. 
zoom upward. 


[Postal strike unlikely SLF needs 
WASHINGTON (API -The chance of a nationwide postal strike appears to be fading because of a reluctance by many union 
volunteers 

members to jeopardize their careers and risk going to jaiL Members of the 299,000-member American Postal Workers Union 
The Sophomore Literary Festival received messages yesterday from their president, Emmet Andrews, saying there was an "overwhelming grass roots 
festival. This is an ideal way to
still needs people for this year'sresistance to the idea of defying the courts and going on strike." 
meet students as well as a chance to work with some of the greatest literary minds of our time. Last


Weather 
year's festival included such ren­
4 pm seminar, "photo chemical redox reactions of porphyrins: photocatalysis," dr. yaccou harel, nd. conf. rm. rad. lab. 
4:10pm 
meeting, fulbright scholarship. seniors, 102 o'shag 

• 6, 8, 
movie, "smokey and the bandit," knights of 10 & 12 pm tolumbus, $1 
6:10pm orientation meeting, amnesty international, Iafortune ballroom 
7, 9:15 film, "three days of the condor," sponsored by & 11:10 pm angel air flight, $1, engr. aud. 
7pm organizational meeting, nd-smc council for the retarded, lib. aud. 
7 pm speaker, dean vincent raymond (coli. of ba.) pangborn hall chapel 
7 pm movie, "sound of music," sponsored by smc social commision, carroll hall, $1 
8 pm organizational meeting, philadelphia club, grace hilll penthouse 
Observer Editorial Board 
Tony Pace Editor-in-Chief Steve Odland Managing Editor John Calcutt Executive Editor Barb langhenry Executive Editor Rosemary Mills Editorial Editor 
Phil Cackley Copy Editor Jean Powley St. Mary's Editor Ann Gales News Editor Mike Lewis News Editor 
Diane Wilson News Editor Ray O'Brien Sports Editor Bryan Grulev Features Editor 

Volleyball Club : *Keep the mug ! to hold practice : * Refills 50¢ : 
There will be practice for the e t h f •t hOWS On OUr e 
men's Volleyball Club tonight at 7 e Wa C your aVOn e S e 
p.m. in the ACC fieldhouse. In • 
TV I ·1 h f • 
addition, a seminar will be held, • 4 t100t just m1 e nort 0 campus • 
featuring twelve top amatures from • • 
the South Bend area. Everyone is • • 
invited. 
*The Observer 
Night Editor: Tom Behney Asst. Night Editor: Sue Wuet­cher, John IJondanville layout Staff: Ray Nimrod, Tom Heil, Dathie Tighe, Ralph Horgan Sports layout: Debbie (you are such a) Dahrling Typists: Kim Convey, Betty Masona, Tricia Meehan, Rosie Rodgers E.M.T.: me (LD, Wednesday is horrible) Day Editor: Keith Melaragno Copy Readers: Tim Joyce, and Michael Ridenour Ad l.avout: Matt DeSalvo , 
David E. Wood  '  
Photographer:  Lee  a  Sender,  
Jr  

The Observer is published Mon­day through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for s2o per year (II o per semester) from The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dama, Indian•, 46556. 
The Observer Is a member of the Associated ~~~-All repro­duction rights are reserved. 
... # • ' • ~ #-·~ 
..... "" ......... .. 

• in the Georgetown plaza •
• 
"HOW CAN I 
MAKE MY LIFE 
WORTHWHILE?" 
One way may be to live within the Augustinian Fraternity. When you come to live with us, you observe and participate In our community life for several years before making a final commitment. You observe that we are a religious community following the charlsm of St. Augustine and "that together and with one heart In brotherhood and spiritual friendship, we seek and worship God and that we labor ·in the service of the people of God." We serve In colleges, high schools, parishes, foreign missions, campus ministries, retreats, hospitals and military chaplaincies. 
WANT MORE INFORMATION? CONTACT: 
Father Bill Waters, O.S.A. 
Villanova University 
P.O. Box 338 
Villanova, PA 19085 
(215) 525-5612 
Name 

Addre•••-----------------------------------­
City__________Stete._________...Zip______ 
SohoolorOcc.. ______________~g•·------------­
Phone 



JUniORS 
lnt€R€St€b In B€1nG JUniOR panents weekenb COmmittee Cha1nman? 
I~ So,................~ p1ck up an appl1cat1on at the stu0€Tlt actiVIties o~~1ce sy ~Ribay! 
7


'Pl·no277-4c522cbJ·os·. 
TONIGHT 

sophy" lectures given at Notre Dame in the fall of 1976. "More than any other student of the nature of science," writes Rescher, ''he (Peirce) pries into the things we always wanted to know but were afraid to ask." 
ment for the University to have the FCC revoke our license . I'm not going to let it happen.", Roemer said, adding, "we're going to convince them that we take it (the incident) seriously and that nothing like this will ever happen again." 



.. 
.. .'•. . •. ..... 

$1.50 PITCHERS 
Ter1ure offers job security 
are equally important where theby Tom Jackman opportunities exist. It is simply impossible to promote a person who is not an accomplished 

Tenure for teachers does not teacher.'' merely signify one's seniority over O'Meara noted in a later inter­another. At Notre Dame, tenure view that "tenure usually (but notgives an instructor "permanence of always) goes hand in hand with a
appointment" and "protection of promotion.''
academic freedom," according to the University's Faculty Handbook. 
Tenure is granted in the same manner as a promotion. MostWhat this means is that tenure teachers start out at Notre Dame asvirtually assures one of a solid an Assistant Professor, which or­position in the college for life ~or dinarily requires a Ph.D. or itsuntil mandatory retirement), and 

equivalent. Some begin as an''very few occupations can offer that kind of security," points out Assisstant Professor except that Provost Dr. 0. Timothy O'Meara. 

appointments are for one-year per­iods only, renewable twice, and O'Mt~ara has cited his three that a doctorate is not required.

criteria for obtaining tenure in an However, time spent at this rankearlier statement to new faculty does not count towards tenure.
appointees in August: "Excellent teaching, distinguished research, Assisstant Professors must un­
and compatibility with the goals of dergo a probationary period of this institution." seven years (sometimes shorter) before coming up for tenure. Full
We t:xpect excellent teaching on Professors and Associate Profess­the undergraduate level, in the ors, higher in rank than an Assiss­classroom and outside. Contribu­tant, may not stay here more that·tions to teaching on the graduate four years without tenure.
level, supervision of doctoral theses, work in seminars and labs, 
Recommendations for tenure and/or promotion are initiated in the instructor's own department by 

Fc>rd indicted the Chairman of the Department and the Departmental Committe on Appointments and Promotions. 
[continued from page 1] 1 The Chairman submits his written recommendations, along with a
tion, which under state law is as written report of the deliberationsliable as a person. Cosentino said of the Committee, to the Dean ofthere were no plans for further the College, who adds his ownindictments. 
recommendations and passes these Had individuals been indicted, along to the Provost. 

however, the penalties could have been as much as 2-8 years in prison If the Deart is in disagreement for ea1:h count of reckless homicide with the recommendations of the and up to a year in prison for the Chairman or the Committee, he 
criminal recklessness charge. meets jointly with the two before submitting his recommendations to 
Bloc·h said other criminal indict­the Provost. The Provost submitsments might be brought from all recommendations, both positive previous civil suits against Ford and negative, including his own, tobecause of Pinto accidents. 
the President for final action. The Association of Trial Lawyers 
A member of the Regular Teach­of America said in June there are ing and Research Faculty is given up to SO Pinto-related civil suits one year's notice if the decision is pending in various courts. At least made not to renew an appointment.

six suits have been settled out of court by Ford, including three of At present, there are 557 mem­more that $1 million. bers of the Regular Teaching and 
Research Faculty. Of these, 358 

The: biggest jury award was last are tenured. Feb. 6 when an Orange County, Calif., jury awarded $127.8 million­In addition to offering academic 
$125 million in punitive damages­freedom, tenure means a good deal toa teenager badly burned when of security as well, as defined in the his 1972 Pinto burst into flames 
Faculty Handbook: "faculty mem­after being hit in the rear by a car bers with tenure may be dismissed going 25 mph. The plaintiffs 

only for serious cause, such asargued Ford knew from its own· dishonesty, professional incompe­tests that the Pinto tank would tence or continued neglect ofrupture too easily, but sold the cars academic duties, regulations or anyway to save $10 a car. 

disregard for the Catholic character 

That was believed to be the of this institution, or causing large:st punitive award in any notorious and public scandal.'' product liability case. The trial 
O'Leary added, "Tenure and

judge later reduced the award to promotion are not merely rewards$6.3 million, including $2.5 million for research rendered, but mustin punitive damages, and Ford is contain high expectations for con­appe:aling. 
tinued growth." 

The Universitv is replacing its central computer· with a larger machine that has about three times the processmg speed and twice the memory capacity of itS present system, according to Brian R. Walsh, Computing Center director. The new computer is an IBM 370/168 (8 megabyte), replacing an IBM 370/158 (4 megabyte) which the Univeristy acquired in 1974. It will increase the Center's annual budget of $1.6 million by about $120,000 under a leasing arrange­ment with ITEL, a financial leasing 
corporation. "We are getting. at least a 300 per cent increase in performance and processing speed for less than a 10 per cent increase in cost," Walsh said. ITEL began installing the new central processing unit and mem­ory Aug. 14, and the two macnines are expected to run simultaneously until the changeover is completed: Very little loss time to users is expected. In physical dimensions, the new unit is about twice as big as the old. In its processing capabilities, it is one o~ the largest machines now in production; Walsh said. It can perform three times as many calculations-addition, subtraction, multiplication, division, com­parisons -in the same time frame as the machine it reolaces. This is the fifth time the central computer has been upgraded since 
the -Computing Center was dedi­cated in May, 1963. Walsh said there will be no changes in opera­ting systems, staff or software 
packages. 


!Ft~=~~~;;;;~;;~~~~~~~:;i;~~~~i;;:~~~~ 

St?J>t 1t>-1J [)c), ()c)£~§/ 13()()~()()"§ 1()-1()~ ()ff 
flclllll£>1 §lilrt§ J ff)l tilt? ~ric:£> f)f j_ 
£4§£4()1 Ill ~l ~cl§CJUE> 1()% f)ff f)f)W f)f) ll '~()
..AM~IIIllt.·liE>l~ll f)£'\'£>1 ~£> t:liE>cl~£'1 
ll"lit~ (f)tnf 4fff)rcJcll!IE> 

The Area's Cross Country SUing and Backpacking Specialists 
Slll?l?4 ..{)IJ~I41~ SIJJ>J>ll' 
2216 Miami St., South Bend • 233-8383 

9-12 



Thursday, September 14, 1978
the observer 




OBUD releases election rules 

Marc Woodward, chairman of the Ombudsman Student Body Presi­dent and Student Body Vice Presi­dent (SBP/BBVP) Election Com­mittee, released yesterday the official rules for the 1979 SBP/ SBVP Election. 
"These rules were revised in the fall of 1977 for last spring's SBP/SBVP election. they worked well, and both the candidates and the election committee were gener­ally happy with these rules," Woodward stated. 
"Inorder to update and better the election rules, last fall we adver­tised a meeting for the students so that they could submit ideas and suggestions, but we received no responses. The changes that were made in last year's rules came from the election committee , he said. 
"The election rules are an­nounced now so that all potential candidates will be aware of the rules and abide by them this fall semester," Woodward explained. 
"Later this fall, the election committee will select the dates of candidates organizational meetings ,the period for signing petitions, the campaigning period and the 

DOONESBURY 
DUKe, M/1/E/?E GEE, r tAJa){J)N'T THE HELL IS 1\NJW, CfJACH. I E/){)/E'? If£ REJ.£ASEI) HIM ON 


l----------,----------------,-,------1 the dinin halls. Sandwich style 
.................. ·············~· .................
•
* 


! RING SIDE SPECIAl!
•

•• This Friday * ~ 
• 

From opening bell to last punch! 
final election date," he said. These 
dates will be announced in early 
spring. 

Woodward added that1he election committee doesn't want to be a watchdog committee. "We just want to make sure that the SBP and SBVP are elected fairly with res­pect to the other candidates and the students," he said. 
The candidates are urged to maintain a close watch over their campaign committees because the candidates are responsible for the actions of their committees. this, then, will probably limit the size of the candidates' campaign commit­tees," Woodward explained. 
Tom Lux, Ombudsman director, stressed that no one should organ­ize a campaign too early. "Anyone who is considering running for SBP or SBVP should at his time keep il quiet," he said. 
Woodward also noted, "Pending a decision from the election Comm­ittee, one more rule will be added before this election. Since the members of the hall judicial boards administer the election voting, we must determine to which degree a hall judicial board member may participate in a candidate's cam­paign." 
A poster highlighting the official 


by Garry Trudeau 
R/1..£1, HAll£ YOU EXCUSe 5/ZN £/){)/E'? WE ME,5/RS.. GOT A HURT PlAY­


election rules will be posted soon. 
Woodward stated that anyone with 
questions concerning these rules 
should contact him at 3407. 
Woodward stressed that the sign­
ing of petitions is not to be used as 
a campaign tool." They (petitions) 
are to be used to obtain the 
necessary amount of signatures 
which qualify a candidate to be 
placed on the ballot," he said. 
Students who sign petitions should only give their name and ID number--no other information should be requested by the bearer of the petition. 
Woodward stated that rule 11 "Was clarified by specifically naming HPC, Student Government and Student Union as the official organizations. In doing so, the candidates clearly know how they cannot solicit help from before the actual campaigning begins." 
According to Woodward, this rule was added "to assure a more equal start for all candidates involved." 
SBP/SBVP RULES FOR ELECTIONS 
I. The elections will be held during the first week of March each year. (the exact date will be announced). 
Darby O'Gill, a well known figure on campus, spends his time 

2. Petitions to run for office may be 
meditating on the quad. During these last few days of summer picked up at the Student Govern· more than a few stufiPnts can be iealous about his inordinate ment Office two weeks before....,~a,;,;m•o;.;;u;.;,n;.;,t..;o;,;f..;f;.;,r,;,ee~t~im;,;,e~.[~P;.ho;,:to;;.;b;;;;y;..:;Lee~~Se,;,n~de~r~]---":':""-:--":"":"--:-_, 
election day. Petitions are to be returned approximately a week later, at which time there will be a mandatory candidates meeting. Two hundred signatures with res­pective ID numbers will be needed for the nomination of SBP/SBVP candidates. Students may sign more than one candidate's petition. 
Only official petitions may be circulated. A list of all finalized candidates will be published in the Observer. 
3. A $60 limit on campaign expenses will be set for all SBPI SBVP candidates. Outside contri­butions count toward ca.mpaign expense limit. Receipts . for all materials purchased are required by the Election Committee. All receipts must be received by the committee before the distribution fo materials can begin. A copy-of any and all posters must be submitted to the Election Commit­tee before posting. These may be left in the Ombudsman Office. Posters may not be larger than I I inches bv 17 inches and they cannot be plac~d on outside walls, trees, or any exterior areas according to University rules. Posters are to be displayed inside the dormitories and in-;ide public buildings. No posters are allowed in or outside signs are permitted. o sttc urn adhesives may be used on any materials. No moving vehicles with sound gear are allowed, including sound trucks. Balloons are permis­sable. Skywriting and airplane banners are allowed. 
4. 
The only thing which can be donated to a ticket without it being assessed against their spending limit is people's labor. All other donated services or materials will be assessed against the candidate's spending limit at their fair market value. 

5. 
If a candidate fails to disclose the proper cost of any campaign materials, he will be penalized. Penalty: forfeiture of candidacy. 

6. 
No write,ins or blank ballots are allowed. They will not be counted. No endorsements may be given by the HPC as a body. or by the Student government. Student Union. or the Board of Commis­sioners. No endorsements may be sought from any freshmen. Candi­dates accept media endorsement at their own risk. 

7. 
Candidates cannot use any gathering of an organization for campaign purposes. even if they ar members of that organization. 


• 
Penalty: SO per cent campaign expenses will be deducted. 
• 8. SBP and SBVP candidates will 
be held responsible for the actions f anyone in their campaign or organization. 
--------------.distribution of posters, buttons, ibbons, etc., and the making o speeches--used to solicit votes, except in the distribution of officia petitions. 
9. 
NO one may disclose his or her intention to run for the office of SBP/SBVP sooner than the begin­ning of the spring semester. Penalty: 25 per cent of campaign expenses will be deducted. 

10. 
No one may organize a campaign committee sooner than four weeks prior to election day. Organizing a campaign committee includes soliciting any help whatso­ever, seeking endorsements, or seeking committments for partici­pation or support. Penalty: 25 per cent of campaign expenses will be deducted. 

11. 
No candidate may solicit help or support from a person in an official organization (HPC, Student Government, and/or Student Union) until the actual campaign­expenses will be deducted. 

12. 
The balloting areas must be clear of campaign literature or "vote-getters~·. Election Day signs will be permitted and provided. he Election Committee reserves the right to be the final arbiter and change the penalties based on the degree of the offense. 

13. 
Only an official candidate can campaign and completed petitions are needed to make a candidacy official. Therefore, campaigning may not begin until the petitions are returned to the Election Com­mittee at the candidate's meeting, approximately one week before th primary election. Campaigning i any public contact--especially th 



'L !_ 



Thursday, Saptem bar 14, 1978 
the observer . 5 


The New Notre Dame 



TACO JOHN"'St 
Is Now Open 



® 
© 

OUR NEW NOTRE DAME LOCATION & DRIVE -UP SERVICE 1722 North Ironwood South Bend (1 Block South of Greenwood Shopping Center) 
2524 Lincolnway West Mishawaka (2Biocks East of Ironwood) 
OPEN Sun. thru Thurs. 11 a.m.· 11 p.m. Fri. and Sat. 11 a.m. · 1 a.m. 
CLIP THESE COUPONS AND SAVE ON 2 TACORRIFIC TASTE TREATS! 
, 

~-----------------------------------------------------~-----------------------------­
Thursday, September 14, 1978
the observer_ 




Few upsets in heavy primary day 
Seven incumbent govenors and three U.S. senators easily turned back nomination challenges on the heaviest primary day of 1979. Gov. Blair Lee, in a major upset, was ousted in Maryland. 
In Minnesota, businessman Robert E. Short narrowly won nomination for Hubert Humphrey's old Senate seat, while in Florida, former Sen. Edward J. Gurney succeeded in the first round of a comeback bid. 
Former Maryland Transportation secretary Harry Hughes' victory over Lee in the Democratic primary was the biggest surprise Tuesday as 14 states and the District of Columbia held primaries. 
It was seen as a repudiation of suspended Gov. Marvin Mandel, 
who was forced to step down in favor of Lee after being convicted of mail fraud and racketeering. Former U.S. Sen. J. Glenn Beall had no problem gaining the GOP !gubernatorial nod. 
In Washington, D.C. City Councilman Marion Barry held a slender 1,000-vote lead in the mayoral primary with incumbent Walter Washington running third behind Sterling Tucker, also. a council member. Election officials said the outcome might not be determined until absentee ballots are counted. Art Fletcher, who served in the Ford administration, won the GOP race. 

Gurney -who retired from the Senate after being indicted on conspiracy, bribery and perjury 
charges of which-he was later acquitted -returned to the political scene as he captured the Republi­can nomination in the House district that first sent him to Washington. 
In other Florida races, State Attv. Gen. Robert Shevin and state Sen. Robert Graham qualified for the Democratic runoff for the governor and the former head of the Government Services Admini­stration, Jack Eckerd, won the GOP race. 
Short's triumph in Minnesota came at the expense of Rep. 
Donald Fraser in the Democratic ­Farmer-Labor primary. Short will face Republican lawyer David Durenberger in November, with the winner replacing Muriel Hymphrey. She was appointed after her husband died but decided not to run for re-election 
Incombent Wendell Anderson, a Democrat, won nomination for Minnesota's other Senate seat and will meet Republican Rudy Boschwitz. In the governor's race, another incombent Democrat, Rudy Perpich won the right to face Republican Reo. Albert Ouie. 
Two Eastern Democratic gover­nors, New York's Hugh Carey and Connecticut's Ella Grasso, had no trouble defeating their own lieut­enant governore -Mary Anne Krupsak and Robert Killian. Carey will meet Assembly Minority Lead­CI Perry Duryea in November, while Mrs. Grasso will face Rep. Ronald Sarasin. 
Also in New York, Rep. Fred Richmond won Democratic re­nomination after facing some op­position for his admission that he had solicited sex from a 16-vear-old boy. 
Besides Anderson, other sena­tors winning nomination fights were Rhode Island's Claiborne Pell and New Hampshire's Thomas Mclntrye, both Democrats. 
Other incombent governors who 
nomination Martin
won were

r------------------------, I'_ _._ _._IIHJ________IHII_..__.INI_04I,_.~-.Schreibar, Wisonsin's Democratic 
Tonite Thurs, Sept 14 
50's Nite 
acting governor who will face educator Lee S. Dreyfus; Meldrim Thomson, a New Hampshire con­servative who will meet Democrat Hugh Gallen;Bruce Babbitt, an Arizona Democrat who will face conservative Evan Mecham: and Ed Herschler, a Wyoming Demo­crat who will oppose Republican! John Ostlund. 
Governors who had no pnmary opposition were Richard Snelling. a Vermont Republican, who will face State Rep. Edwin Granai in Novem­ber, and Richard Lamm. a Colorado Democrat who will face !.tate Sen. Ted Strickland. 
GAT schedule 

announced

• Students planning to take one or more o the admission tests re­quired by graduate and profession­
al schools are advised to register



micflael &co. 
for the tests immediately. A di!.ruption in mail servic~ could prevent those who delay from

House Special 
being registered for the early fall examinations. Registration Deadlines for the 


Hair Concepts 

'Hair designs for Men & Women, 


( Ali-Spinks on TV) 
examinations are: Sept. 14; Law School Admission

with the emphasis on Easy Care' 
test (LSAT) 

mon-wed-fri 8:00-5:30 tues-thur 8:00-8:00 LADIES NITE 
Sept 21; Graduate Management Admission Test (GMATl
sat 8-5 

hours 8-2 wed-sat 
Sept 28; Graduate Record Exami­
Y2 mile east of notre dame 
nation (GRE). 

18381 Edison at lnd 23 272-7222 North 2041 E. Ireland at Ironwood
south 
KINGS CELLAR LIQUORS
291·1001 
master charge visa 

SPECIAL SPECIAL USHER SCOTCH GORDON GIN
SPECIAL SPECIAL 
10.72 1.751tr.

1t99 1.751tr. EARLY TimES GORDON VODKA 10.971.751tt. 9.89 1.751tt. 
KEGS!I 1/2 ba11•l HAmms S26.99 miLLER LITE S30.50 OLYmPIA J30.50 



ALSO 
FRI. 6:45-9:10 CARLO ROSSI 3.99 gal Hamm'aS2pk 2.99 Sat. SUD. 1:45-4:00 
Olympia 6pk 1.79

6:45-9:10 RIUHITE LAmBRUSCO 1.99 750ml ...and his brother will touch your he:ut! Gallo 8utgundy 3.09mag pabat 24pk 5.99 by JAMES ANORONICA Directed by PAUL WILLIAMS :'iooiiCeCI bt JENNINGS L 
Gallo Chablla 3.09 mag Sttoha 24pk 5. 99 
~ TECHNICOLOR ® AUNIVERSAL PICTUR£ 
.,.,, U~IVt!JISA.I. Ctn Sl'VOIOS INC A.U FIIGMT$ Plf,SlA\IEO 


-. ..,. . ~-..... -·· ---~ -~ -·---··-·
with 



• 
Shapirotoappear at opening 
by Donna Tnascht 
Renowned artist Dee Shapiro will appear at the opening of her art exhibit entitled "Recent Works" from 7-9 p.m., Friday, Sept. 15. 
The  exhibit  will  be  held  in  the  
Moreau  Gallery  on  the  Saint  
Mary's campus.  

Ms. Shapiro from Great Neck, N.Y., is an artist whose work visually explores, in acrylic and watercolor, the numerical patterns of the Fibonacci series, which is· part of the Pythagorean thoerem . 
. The Egyptians had previously used the ·series to derive the 'divine proportions' found in their archi­
tecture. 
Reviews of Ms. Shapiro's works have appeared in various art journals, such as Arts Magazine, Womenart, and Art news. her name has been listed in the Who's Who of American Women every year since 1975. 
The exhibit will run through Oct. 
11. Gallery hours are from 9-11 
a.m. and 12:30 p.m. Tuesday through Friday and 12:30-4 p.m. Saturday and Sunday. ­

Fall is certainly on the way. Here we see one of Notre Dame's diligent groundskeepers working to keep the paths clear for students.£Photo by Lee Sender] 
PE Dep't. 

sponsors classes 
Beginning Monday, Sept. 18 the Physical Education department will sponsor a series of six classes on women's self-defense. These classes, which will run from 6:30-8 
p.m. in the LaFortune ballroom, will be taught by Sgt. Joel Wolvos of the So_uth Bend Police Depart­ment. 
In the first class, Sgt. Wolvos 
will discuss the psychological 
makeup of an attacker and method!> 
to verbally dissuade him. Subse­
quent classes will comcentrate on 
the six major holds that •n attacker 
might use and ways to escape 
these. 
The main emphasis of the classes 
will be how to sufficiently injure an 
attacker in three major target areas 
(eyes, throat, and groin) in order to 
flee safely. To date. over three 
thousand women have taken this 
course and several of these partici­
pants have reported using the 
techniques learned to successfully 
escape an attacker. 
All ND-SMC students are invited to attend these classes. which will meet on Monday and Wednesday for the next three weeks. Comfort­able clothing is recommended. 

----------------------------~ 
The Tl Programmable r 58 and 59 both feature
Tl's preprogrammed 
I'd S ™ 
So I tate Software 

plug-in modules. A Mas­ter Library Module of 25 I 
programs in math, sta­
t istics and f. · I 
, lnance IS 
included. Optional li-I braries are available in: I Applied Statistics. Real I 
Estate/1 nvestment. A via­
tion. Marine Navigation. I 
Surveying. Leisure. Busi-1 
ness Decisions. Securi­
ties Analysis. And more 1 
to come. I 
For Tl-59 owners, Tl's 1 
Specialty Packettes '­
© 1978 Texas lnslruments incorporaled 


Let a TI calculator help you make more efficient use of your time. This semester... and for years to come. 




FREE! This $12?5 value bookwhenyou buya TI Programmable 58or59. 
'­ $1295  
~f  Sourcebook for  
Programmable  
Calculators  
Step-by-step progr<ommed solutions. whatever your held·  
• mathematics •  calculus •  slalislics •  busmess and operations  
research •  economics •  biology •  2ngmeering •  phys1cs and  
astronomy •  music •  and much more  
$124.95*  
TI Programmable 58  TI Programmable 59  

The Sourcebook for Programmable Calculators is a (pre-written programs) are available in major study new book from Texas Instruments designed to help fields including civil, electronic and computer engi­you explore the power of your programmable calcu­neering; physics, statrstics, and business/finance. lator. Contains over 350 pages covering step-by-step And, additional ready-made programs written by programmed solutions to problems in a wide range professionals in your field are available through Tl's of fields-. And it's yours free, if you act now. Professional Program Exchange (PPX-59) member­


------------------I ship program. 
Use this coupon to obtain your free book. Texas Instruments will send you afree copy of Sourcebook lor Programmable 
Calculators, a$12 95 value. when you 111 Return this completed coupon. mclud1ngserial number 121 along with your completed Tl-58 or Tl-59 customer mformat1on card (packed 1n box). (31 adated copy of proof of your purchase verifymg purchase
between August 15 and October 31. 1978. Your coupon, customer information card,
and dated copy of proof of purchase must be postmarked on or before November 7,
1978 to qualify lor this special offer. Book covers step-by-step programmed so1u­
tions to problems 1n awide range of fields: mathematics. calculus. statistics. business 
and operations research. econom1cs. biology, eng1neenng phys1cs and astronomymus1c. and much more. · Send to: Tf-58/59 Free Book Offer, P. D. Box 53, Lubbock, Texas 79408 
Name--------~-------------------------­
Address ___________________________________ _ 
c,ty ________________________________~-­
State lip 
Tl-58 or Tl-59 SERIAL NUMBER 
(from back of calculator)Piease-allow_30 days for del1very. Offer v_o'd where proh1blled by-law. _offer good mU.s_.only--· 
· 

-
_ 

TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 
INCORPORATED 45604 • 
I Tl's Programmable 58 and 59 calculators offer 
J a wide range ol capa­bility and perforrnanc.e. From the student to the advanced profes:>io'lal, there's a Tl Progn. m,na­ble ideally suited t J your needs, and your prfce range. 
See them both a· yourI retailer today. l)on't 1 miss out on this 
special, limited
I 
time Offer. ~O 


! ip
1 1// 
·us suggested reta11 pnce 


Thuradey, September 14, 1978

10 the observer 



Terrorist Alunni arrested 
by Michael Molinelli 

for murder of Moro 

Milan, Italy [API • Corrado Alunni, wanted in the kidnap-murder of former Premier Aldo Moro and reputed to be the new leader of the Red Brigades urban guerrilla or­ganization, was arrested yesterday evening in Milan, police said. 
They said Alunni, 30, was caught in a terrorist hideout in a suburban district, near the Malpensa Air­port. 
Police said they found "large
/ amounts of firearms, ammunition and important documents" in the apartment. 
The area was immediately sealed off. Alunni was held at the central police headquarters for question­ing, police said. 
Police did not explain how the arrest occurred. The hideout was is a high-rise building in a residential 
district near the airport. His name was mentioned by 


Ellen Buddy Assisst.ant St. Mary's Editor 
The American Scene Lecture Series hosted their first guest speaker of the year last night. Dr. awrence Cunningham. an author and Associate Professor of Reli­gious Studies at Florida State University lectured and read the poems of Theodore Roethke. an American poet. 
Cunningham's theme centered around "Poetry, American Land­scape and A Sequence Sometimes Metaphysical. 
The first readings illustrated 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~;;::::::::~~~~~~~~~~~~ Rocthle'sreflffti~s~his~ild-


Cunningham opens series 
co//egiate crossword 
investigators immediately after Moro was kidnapped in Rome 
March 16 and his five bodyguards shot in a street ambush. An arrest 
warrant was pen<llng agamst Alunni on charges of having taken part in the ambush and the May 9 slaying of the Christian Democrat politician. 
The Italian government has charged 17 persons in the Moro case. Five suspects were arrested a few days after Moro's body was found. With the arrest of Alunni, 11 are still at large. 
Alunni was considered the leader of the most radical and determined group inside the Red Brigade. 
Police have often referred to him as the new leader of the terrorist organization after the arrest of Renato C.u~cio, who is serving a 15-year Jatl term for terrorist activities. 
hoo~ working experience in the family g~eenhouse. This aspect of Ro~!hke s poetry led him to begin wntmg more descriptive poetry about nature. He hoped to become 
a. more compassionate and sensi­tive person by becoming closer to nature, and in this way h developed his North America~ Landscape sequence. 
The last segment of peoms that Cunningham discussed was "A Sequence Sometimes Metaphysi­cal." At this time Roethke was searching for God and wanted "to break through the rational experi­ence and come as close to God as possible." In this peotry he moves from his observation of nature into ~he abstract. which Cunningham Illustrated through comparative readings. 
In his closing remarks Cunning­ham commented that Roethke "devoted his spare time as well as professional time and talent to search for God. " 
Yesterday's 

answers 



LOUIE IS CELEBRATING 29 years of great pizzas &good service , 1)-"ets 
\ q"* ~\\C 


~ot'\9~ ~~.oo 
watch for more specials 

ND SMC SENIORS SEMI FORMAL 

CINNABARS on: Sun, Sept 1 7pm-12midnight 

Tickets $15 per couple all you can drink cheese & crackers club membership ND info: ask hall reps SMC info: LeMans lobb 
ANY COLLEGE OF SCIENCE STUDENT 
INTERESTED IN REPRESENTING THE College of Science on the Academic Council should submit Name and brief Statement of Purpose before Sept. 20th to: 
Student Council c/o The Office of Dean of Science Rm 229 Nieuwland Science 


ACROSS 
1 Mr. Guthrie 5 Northwestern 
capital 10 Pleased 14 Dregs 15 Eve or Enoch 16 Irritate 17 October gem 18-Miles 19 Miss Korbut 20 "My -," old TV 
show 23 Prefix for pod 24 Draft classifi­
cation (2 wds.) 25 "-as a 
Stranger" 26 Incas' milieu 28 Bacteria 1 33 Homeowners' debts 
(abbr.) 34 Skeletal 35 Santa ­36 Bert Lahr role 37 Emulates the big 
bad wolf 38 Earth goddess 39 Mr. Boudreau 40 Eddie Peabody's 
instrument 
41 West African 8 Fabric juncture nation 9 Makes more 42 Theatrical interval attractive 
44 Doesn't -eye-10 Picturesque cave 
lash 11 Leslie Caron role 45 Genesis vessel 12 Aquarium growth 46 Open 13 College VIP 48 -judicata 21 Deer 
50 01 d TV show 22 Actor Calhoun (3 wds.) 27 -mother 55 Construction member 29 Data, for short 
(2 wds.) 30 Jane Fonda movie 56 Invalidate 31 Djakarta native 57 Inter-32 "Rollerball" star 58 -breve 33 French title 59 Sheer fabric (abbr.) 
60 Eastern European 34 Diamond sacrifice 
61 Cal.-37 Larcenous rodents 62 Horse (2 wds.) 63 Orson Welles role 38 Nibble 
40 Tell all 41 Needlefi shes 

DOWN 43 Very enthusiastic 1 Airborne 44 Cried 2 Amends 47 Metric work unit 3 Omitting (2 wds.) 49 Ward off 4 Site of 1952 winter 50 Car or command 
olympi cs 51 Competent 5 Washbowls 52 Bath powder 6 Give a speech 53 Unit of speed 7 Old TV show (4 wds.)54 Soak up the sun 

Thursday, September 14, 1978 
the observer 
11

Feels unqualified 







Oswald's widow testifies to House 
WASHINGTON [API • Lee Har­vey Oswald's widow told the House assassinations committee yester­day that she is "not qualified" to say whether her husband murdered President John F. Kennedy. 
But Marina Oswald Porter testi­fied that her heart stopped when she heard on television that the shots which felled the president had come from the Texas School­Hood Depository, because she knew that Oswald worked there and that he had shot at retired Gen. Edwin Walker months earlier. 
Mrs. Porter also revealed that her husband once threatened to shoot Richard M. Nixon, who was in town. She said she coped witht that problem by locking Oswald in the bathroom. 
Mrs. Porter said there had been nothing unusual about her husband when he left home the morning of Kennedy's assassina­tion. She also said Oswald avoided 
discussing Kennedy's murder the one time she talked to him after his arrest. 
Rep. Richardson Preyer, D-N.C., asked her if, with 15 years of hindsight, she could say whether Oswald did in fact assassinate the president. 
"I don't know if I am qualified to make statements like that because I knew one side of Lee but I did not know his whole character," she replied. 
"If he did it, do you know why?" Preyer asked. 
"No, I don't," she said. 
Asked if Oswald protested his innocence, she said, "he never told me: 'I am innocent."' "Did he look calm?" she was asked. "He looked scared," she an­swered. 
She said the incident involving Gen. Walker, a retired military figure who was involved in an 
NOTICES 

Special Discount to all ND and SMC students on automotive parts. All you need is your I D card. 
Hoffman Bros. Auto Electric 
1101 E. Madison 
So. Bend. 
Wanted: 2 football tickets for Michigan: will pay a good price for Student or GA tickets. Call 1770. 
Need 2 GA tix for Tenn. 6893. 

anti-communist campaign, demon­strated her husband's preoccupa­tion with politics and fascination with guns. 
"I realized it was not just a manly hobby of possessing the rifle," she said of the night that Oswald came home bragging about shooting at Walker. "It seemed he was capable of killing someone with it." 
Earlier, Mrs. Porter testified that when they were first married and lived in Russia, her husband tuned in Kennedy's speeches on a short­wave radio and had "only good" things to say. 
Mrs. Porter and Oswald were married in April 1961 in Russia, only a few months after Kennedy was inaugurated as president. 
Oswald, who spoke both English and Russian, occasionally made remarks about Kennedy. Oswald's widow recalled, "Whatever he said about President Kennedy, it was only good, always." 
Mrs. Porter was the lone witness as the committee continued investi­gating Kennedy's assassination in Dallas on Nov. 22, 1963. Oswald never lived to tell his story; he was shot to death in the Dallas police station by Jack Ruby. 


Baha'is celebrate World Peace 
The Baha'i community of Niles will join with Baha'is of the Michiana area to celebrate World Peace Day on Sunday, September 17, with a program open to the public at Century Center in South Bend. 


Seed Spending Money? Colonial Caterers at Century Center needs part time waiters. waitresses. and pantry help. Apply at Student Union or call 284-9151. 
Please Help! Parents won't come see 
me unless I obtain 2 GA Michigan tickets-$$$-call 7607. 
Notre Dame-Michigan tickets wanted. Exchange for tickets to next years sellout game in Ann Arbor or money. 1-313-663-7230. 
Just received 4 GA tlx to Michigan as birthday present, but would rather sell. Will give In to any reasonable offer or sexy voice. Call Mike K. at 3361. 
For Sale: t1-30 Calculator, DK-1 recharger, case and owner's manual. $36 new for all, first 20 takes. Dave 8518. 
Used desks, file cabinets, and metal bookshelves. Call Goodwill 234-1661 extension 24. 
14" Portabel TV-Tape Player with 7'' reelcset of Childcratt books. Call 232-3779. 
Pure Breed Alaskan Malamute puppies. Big gentle dogs-good with children. Call after 4pm. 272-5418. 
For Sale: Must sacrifice 1971 Impala, 350-4 barrel, 2-door, AIC, power steering. Equipped with Pioneer FM/ cassette KP-500 Supertuner. Willling to deal. Call Ray 289-8657. 
I have 2 football season tickets for f tale. Call 256-1341 (married student). 
PERSONALS 

Scoop, 
my stereo still doesn't work. Please!! Diane 
Tennis & Racketball rackets restrung professionally at affordable price. Call Joe Montroy. 1469. 
I need a ride to the eastern Ill. Univ. area, Charleston, Mattoon or Champaign. Can leave anytime this Friday. Will share driving and expenses. Call Tim at 1003. 
Attention Swim timers, scorekeepers, and judges are needed for N D Varsity home swim­meets. Interested-contact: lisa Szewczyk 80093 or Pat Waegher 4-1-4381. 
Interested In Ho111blck Riding Instruc­tion? Contact-Mellaa Clpklla, SMC 54119, 415 Me. JO Hell 683-<U67. 
Bump Sorry about the "knocked kn11". your kidnapper 
Ted, Tim, & Gerry Have pillow case will trnel 
Lost. '73 Plymouth, last seen on Main Street with a bent wheel-oh, that's right, Boom Boom DeGroot's insurance company bought it. 
John Chert: Roses are Red, Violets are Blue-We think the new part looks great on You!! 
Dear Kay, Happy, happy birthday-you cutle you! I Anonymous. 
Hey Mary Kay Bout yesterday. please say okay. One of four in Carroll 
175 Dillon: Thanks for the "toga" invite. Can we bring our sleeping bage? 
To Delores and Phyllis: Better late then never, and you know I'm always late. Happy Belated Birthday 
Jody Chert: Get the FUNK OUT OF OUR FACE (JK) 
the room plus 1 
To those two stunning girls who inadvertantly stole our hearts when 
they stole our bench. Same time, 
same place Friday for some football. 
Grease Back your hair. Bring our your straight legged pants, bobby socks, etc...50's nite at Senior Bar tonite. Door Prizes.
'\o------------­Juniors: Don't miss Friday's Michigan picnic. Buy tix now! 
Juniors: cool yourselves off at the Michigan picnic this Friday. f 
Any Junior interested in being Junior 
Parents Weekend Committee Chairman 
put In an application at the Student 
Actlvltels office by Friday. 
To Bob and Rich Thank you for a great time. Sorry Robert couldn't have lasted a couple hours longer to have played tennis! Maybe another time 
911 Club Schedule: Thursday-"Physical Awareness Night" Friday-"911 Club Debauchery Festival" 
Saturday-Picnic 
Sunday-" Battlestar Galactica" 
Space-Out Party. 
Be There! 
It's no Secret Disco is banal, simplistic, and dis­gusting. Stay tuned, all you disco­haters...for the identity of the "Disco Kid" will soon be revealed' 
YES IS GOD! 
Jewish Students interested In meeting with other N D Jewish students and faculty, please sign up on sheet in Campus Ministry office, Rm. 103 Library, 283-6536. 
Beth: You have such a cute nurse to take care of you! 
Rumor t1D-Erln O'C wears disco ribbons­watch out when she Is wearing her black satin one! Rumor 111-Disco Dave eats slower than anyone we know. Is this because his disco jeans affect his circulation'? Rumor 112-The Disco Kid predicts awild &swinging time for Sophomores at the annual Sophomore picnic on Sat. Don't be afool, be cool, get your llilt IDday. ' Absolutely the largest Junior League Thrift Shop ever. St. Joseph County Fairgrounds, Saturday, September 16, 9:00a.m. to 4:00 p.m. New and used clothing including junior sizes, furniture, toys, housewares, books, records, plants and bake shoppe. Master Charge and Visa cards ac­cepted. Free parking, free admission. 

Gay students of Notre Dame: Gay Information. Call 8870 Friday Septem­ber 15, Saturday September 16, or Dwrite P.O. Box 206. 
Come one come all to the first saturday recreation p~riod of the ND-SMC council for the retarded this saturday, Sept 16th, from 9:0Q-11:30 am. Things are looking good so come and join the fun! 
Organizational meeting for ND-SMC 'Council for the Retarded (Logan Center) at 7:00pm. Thursday night in the ND Library Auditorium. 
FOR RENT 

Garage for rent, double bed for sale, call 287-5718. 
Live in a neighborhood with your professors. Two Graduate students (preferred) to share house close in. Darkroom. Call Ted, 289-0103. 
For Rent: good 5 bed possibility. On fenced three-fourths acre yard, 4 blocks from Notre Dame. Partially furnished, utilities not Included. 272-7365 Terry. 
Country House-furnished room for rent. Nine minutes travel. 277-3604. 
For Rent: 4 bedroom house partially furnished, fenced backyard, garage. 731 South Bend Ave. Perfect college rental. Call 259-9702 or 259-9613. 
LOST & FOUND 

Lost: Sensitive and incriminating ID. Irreplaceable. Somewhere among crowd at SMC senior picnic last Friday. Call SMC 4012. 
IF you had left your purse in a white stationwagon during the senior picnic at SMC on Friday-when you took your purse you took my keys too (they were inside). Please for a ring of three keys and one key by itself, if found, call 4-1-4459 or 4-1-4243. 
Found: 1 silver cross pen 8-29 in bookstore. Call Ann at 3821 to identity. 
Lost: Brown & black, 5 mo. Pit Bull. She looks like a little boxer. There is a sizeable reward and a permanent dispensation for all sinful acts if you find her. Answers to Titan. Call Terry 288-5707. 
Lost: Brown leather wallet Sat. nile. School & personal ID's (not 21). Reward! Call Joe 1469. 
WANTED 

Sports Illustrated Court Club looking for enthusiastic individuals to work part­time at our raquetball club. Positions available are: teaching positions in raquetball, desk sales, fitness center. playroom attendant, and janitorial work. Enjoyable job and good benefits. Call 259-8585 for appointment. 
Rich Uncle needs 4 GA/2 Student' Purdue tix. Good $$. Bill 3303. 
Wanted: Two GA tickets for Purdue game. Call Michele 8007. 
Archbishop of Knoxville, entourage making pilgrimage for Tennessee game. Threatens excommunication of all if 4 GA tickets not supplied. Call Mike (agent) 3285. Save N D please. 
Need riders to Champaign, Ill. U. of 
I. Friday, Sept. 15th. CAll Martha 4-4123 
Wanted: 2 Ga Michigan tix. Will trade excellent YES tix and/or Cash. Call ian 277-5715 or Pat 283-1730. 
Need GA and Student tickets for all home games, especially Michigan. Call Jerry 3795. 
Need many tickets to Pitt. game. Student or GA. Call Mary 6850. 
Anxious to trade 2 MSU tix for 2 Pitt. Call 283-6539 or 277·3333. 
Need 2 GA Michigan tix!! Please. Call Kristin 7968. 
Desperately need one student or GA ticket to Michigan game. Call1842. 
Wanted: one student or GA ticket for the Michigan game. Call 4-1-4420. 
Wanted: four tickets to Michigan game. Call 2n-2944 after 6 p.m. 
Wanted: 2 GA Purdue tix. Can pay big bucks or trade 2 Pitt tix. Debbie 8150. 
Wanted: one student football ticket for Purdue game. CAll 4-1-4243. 
MICHIGAN TICKETS NEEDED. WILL PAY MEGABUCKS! CALL MIKE AT1311. 
WILL TRADE TWO 1979 TICKETS* OR ONE NOTRE DAME AND ONE OHIO STATE TICKET. CALL TOM COLLECT AT 1-313-971-6048. 
Will trade 2 student tickets for 2 GA tickets for Pitt game. Call 4-1-4438. 
SMC CHICK DESPERATE. You've got it and I NEED it. Michigan tickets at ANY PRICE. Call 4-1-5488. 
Wanted: will trade liquid assets for Purdue tickets. I need 2 or 4 GA tickets. Call Bob at 6637. 
PART TIME HELP WANTED Live-in house manager at men's psychiatric half-way house. Prefer psychology, sociology, or pre-med student. Great experience for ad­vancement in the field. Call 234­1049 days for information. 
Need 2-4 Purdue tix for parents. Call Dan 8252. 
Mom and Dad will now do ANYTHING to get 2 GA tix for PURDUE! Please, please help. C.all Brian. 8671. 
Give Mac a Break! Sell me your GA Purdue tickets or I'll cry in my beer. Call 6551. 
Need 2 Michigan tix desperately-Student or GA. Please call Maria 288-3831. 

Needed desperately: two GA Michigan tickets. Please call Teri, 7993. 
Oil Shah & Pope arriving tor Tennessee, Purdue clashes. Require 2 GA tix each. Contact Cammy 4-1-4281. 
Wanted: one Purdue ticket. Call Madeleine 4-1-5400. 
Need Pitt tickets-any kind, any price. Dave 8853. 
Parents and brothers are coming out from Seattle tonhe Michigan game. Need four tickets. Call Kate McDevitt! at 679-4935. 
Need 2 to 4 Michigan tickets. 3441...3441...3441. 
Need 4 Purdue tickets. Call Ben 3657. 
Need: 4 GA Pitt tickets. Will pay$$$. Call Susan 4-1-4509. 
Help! I need 2 GA Purdue tickets for Mom and Dad. Paul1547. 
Need ride to Chicago any Ume on Friday Sept. 15-wlllshara expenses. Call Mark 8507. 
Help,Wanted: Early morning newspaper delivery to dorms. Call 473-3056 collect. 
Wanted: 1 Michigan student or GA ticket. Will pay $. Call 4-1-5411. 
Help! Have to have 1 GA Michigan ticket. Call Mary 4-1-4359. 
Need 2 GA tickets for Purdue and/or Tenn. Will pay big$$$. 288-4211. 
Help! Need two tickets to Purdue game. Student or GA. CAll Randy 1062. 
Need 2 GA tlx for Miami or Tenn. Call Dick 232-3084. · 
Need 1 or 2 GA Purdue tickets. Will pay top dollar. CAll Tom 3010. 
Desperately need Pitt tickets. Mone; no object. Name your price. Call Lance 1027. 
Now hiring cooks, waitresses and delivery persons. Call Pinocchio's 277-4522. 
OLD FRIEND WILL ASSASINATE ME IF DON'T GET 2 PURDUE GA'S. IF HAVE* FIND* KNOW OF* OR SMELL ANY ... CALL 8518.$$ 
Gnt 2 Tenn., Mlch, or Purdue GA's? 
-·'-' High School teacher will pay extramely decent $$ for any lr all. Call Dave 8518. 
Bartender-part-time. Experience not necessary. Call Jim. Ramrod Bar. 289-4709. ·r, 
Need 1 or 2 GA tickets for Michigan game. CAll Mike at 1384. 
Parttime, evening delivery personnel wanted. $3.50 an hour guaranteed. Apply in person. Julio's, 2509 S. Michigan street, after 4:30pm. 
Desperately need 2 GA tickets for Purdue game. Will pay top dollar. Call Dick 6158. 
The program, which starts at 
3:00 P.M. (Michigan time) in River Level Suite #4, will feature a talk by Martha Leach and music by the Larry Dwyer Trio. Leach will speak on the theme of world peace. 
World Peace Day is sponsored by the National Spiritual Assem­bly of the Baha'is of the United States. Baha'is believe in the oneness of God, the oneness of mankind. All the great Messen­gers of the past, Moses, Krishna, Christ, Buddha, and Mohammed, have stressed the importance of peace and unity. 
The pu~pose of World Peace Day is to call attention to the need for the establishment of a lasting peace among the nations of the world. For more informa­tion, call 683-3666 or 287­5463. 

.....;;.._________....._____....._....,.__________..._.______._:............__
_..:.-.:..-~-.....--.-.:...:.....;·....'_..:.·~~~~~~~··~~·--~·~~ 
• 

I -

A promising fall baseball schedule will begin Saturday as the 
Irish meet Spring Arbor. 


Spinks vs. Ali 

:~:::::::::::::::::::::;:::::::::~:::::::::::::::::~:~::::::::;::::::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::· 
Tomorrow evening in New Orleans, Muhammad Ali vies to become 

the first heavyweight to win the crown three times. In 1960, Floyd 
Patterson recaptured the championship he had lost the previous year to 
Ingemar Johansson. 
Ali, who lost his share of the title to Joe Frazier in 1971 when both 

were at their peaks, went to Kinshasa, Zaire, in September 1974 to 
outsmart George Foreman with his famous "rope-a-dope" tactics and 
held the belt until last year's loss to Spinks. 
As usual when the heavyweight title is up for grabs, all eyes will be 

turned to the Superdome, even those of the fanatics at Yankee Stadium 
where the New Yorkers host the Red Sox. 
Ali, aka Cassius Clay, aka the Lip, aka The Greatest, had defended 

his championship against such nobodies as Chuck Wepner and Alfredo 
Evangelista. Even Joe Louis had a bum-of-the-month club in the '40s, 
but matches like these do nothing but fill the coffers of ruthless 
promoters Bob Arum and Don King. And, battling these weak 
competitors can do nothing but dull the aggressive instincts of the 
great heavyweights. 
The heavyweight division in boxing is definitely on a downward 

slide. Ken Norton was never really good for much except giving Ali a 
struggle (experts attribute this to the respective styles of the two 
pugilists). World Boxing Association champ Larry Holmes does not 
possess a knockout punch, which he demonstrated clearly against 
Norton. Ali, of course, is aging rapidly, and this should be his last 
go-round; never again does he want to endure the misery he has put up 
with in preparation for this fight. Cuba's Teofilo Stevenson, a latent 
puncher, will probably remain an amateur until the island becomes 
part of the United States. 
Spinks may be the one bright star on the horizon. It is very easy to 

dismiss his victory over Muhammad to Ali's not being prepared, but 
for a 24-year-old to fight so well in his eighth professional bout was 
remarkable. Spinks is trained very capably by wily Sam Solomon. 
Actually, Spinks· two basic shortcomings are his inability tt> pass a 
driving test and his ability to be found in possession of marijuana, 
something most people avoid fairly well. 
Make no mistake about it. There is something special about 

tomorrow night's bout. Many feel that this, finally, is the last time we 
are going to see Muhammad Ali in the ring. He has worked harder for 
this fight than any other, perhaps excepting his first go-round with 
Sonny Liston. Before the fight, let your mind wander and try to relive 
the montage of Ali's heavyweight career: Liston, Quarryt, Frazier, 
Norton, Frazier, Foreman, Norton, Spinks. Then sit back and watch 
the man prove that he is, indeed, the greatest. 
Nittany Lions to tes.t Woody's Buckeyes 
STATE COLLEGE, Pa. [API • the kind of football team we Penn State, expected to dazzle the expected to have. football world this year with an On Saturday, the fifth-ranked explosive offense, just hasn't been Lions meet No. 6 Ohio State in impressive when it comes to get­Columbus. The game will be ting the football across a goal line. played before a regional televison 
The Nittany Lions have scored audience ABC-TV and. a record 57 only three tow:;hdowns in their first straight Ohio Stadium sellout of two starts, relying on a solid more than 87,000. defense and the golden toe of Matt Penn State holds a 4-21ead in the Bahr to life them to victories over series that started in 1912. Ohio Temple 10-7 and Rutgers 26-10. State has won the last two games 
"We are just not very good," 1975 and 1976 to give Woody Penn State coach Joe Paterno says Hayes a 2-0 edge over Paterno. of his offensive unit. "It's a lot of Hayes was 0-3 against Paterno's little things. It is a very disappoint­predecessor Rip Engle, losing in ing situation because we don't have 1956, 1963 and 1964. 
For Baseball team 
Fall season to open Saturday 
by Mike Henry Sports Writer 
During the months of September and October, freshmen and return­ing upperclassmen at Notre Dame talk eagerly of the Irish gridders' hopes for a national championship, while de!Jating the merits of other teams and star players across the country. 
In no other outpost is football fever as prevalent as in South Bend, where a 9-2 season is considered a failure because of the premium on perfection begun by Knute Rockne in the 1920s. 
It may come as a surprise to some, then, that Notre Dame's baseball team has lined up a fall slate of 14 games, beginning this Saturday, when coach Tom Kelly brings the Irish to Jackson, MI. for a doubleheader with Spring Arbor. 
''I'm cautiously optimistic con­cerning the outlook for this fall season," Kelly stated. "The thing to keep in mind is that the fall has no bearing on any league or national standings. Therefore, we will be using the fall primarily to evaluate our freshmen as well as players who did not see much action last fall. There is more competition this fall than any year since I've been here." 
One position where competition seems to be lacking is at shortstop. where senior fireplug Rick Pullano remains entrenched after batting .359 last spring. 
Pullano fs a consummate lead-off hitter who can beat out a bunt, steal a base and start a rally. His glove is excellent and he keeps his teammates on their toes with his constant chatter. 
•'The most important thing for us to do this year is know our · limitations," the Skokie, IL, native said. "Last year too many of us were trying to overpower the bait' with two strikes on us." 
If Mark Simmendinger continues his improvement, the hot corner will have a "No Vacancy" sign this year. Simmendinger displayed good power in the spring. 
Rounding out the infield are second baseman Tom Caruso, who hit .400 in a summer league, and Bernie Boyle at first. Mark Kelly is out for the fall after coming down with a virus in April. 
The garden should consist of Mike Jamieson in leftfield, who batted .364 in Florida last March; Dave Bartish in center; and defen­sive wizard Greg Rodems in right­field. Dan Voellinger and Jim Montagano, last year's fourth and fifth-leading Irish hitters, will pro­bably alternate backstop duties. 
"Both continue to improve defen­sively, as well as in handling pitchers," Kelly noted. 
The pitching staff looks quite promising and will keep Notre Dame in many close ball games. It starts with senior righthander Mike Bobinski, who has pitched consis­tently well for three years while gaining a reputation as a hard-luck hurler. Look for him to be followed to the mound by sophomores Mike Desey and Bob Bartlett, both of whom are quickly becoming pol­ished performers. 
The find of '78 may very well be freshman Greg Kot from Fairfax. VA. Kot, a smallish righthander, has an explosive fastball. good command of his pitches, a !.uperior disposition and possesses good baseball sense. he throws from a straight overhand delivery reminis­cent of Jim Palmer. 
Last fall, 12 contests were rained out and this Jack of game experi­ence showed up in the Irish's spring won-loss record. Hopefully, the gods will be kinder this time towards a Notre Dame team that has the potential to be a winner. 
After two away doubleheaders, the Irish return home for a single­ton next Thursday against Valpa­raiso. Admission is free. Come to Jake Kline Field Thursday to watch a team that has a very bright future ahead. 

*Observer 





s-ports 
________,__,________________. 
Fallon chooses '78 netters 
by Keith Connor Sports Writer 
After a week of tryouts, tennis coach Tom Fallon has chosen his men. Now, with several strategy changes in mind, Fallon must shape the 1978 men's tennis team for fall competition. 
"We lost three top players from last year's team," Fallon said. Brian Hainline graduated, while Tom Westphal and Marty Horan chose to concentrate on their studies. 
"I'm rather optimistic." contin­ued Fallon, "because some of the freshmen should fill in easily." 
Coach Fallon will look to four new netters to help him out. Bill Pratt from California, Tom Robin­son from Florida and Tom Hartzell from New York are the top fresh­men. A transfer student from Bolivia, Morrisio Naverro, rounds out the list of hopefuls. 

The top-proven players are junior Carlton Harris, sophomore Herb Hopwood and Mark Hoyer and seniors Bob Koval and Mark Trueblood. They are all "looking good and eager to go," Fallon said. 
"Most of our players hold down summer jobs so they are not able to play tournaments all summer long." 
Fallon does, however, insist that 
his players come back in top 
physical shape. The first week of 
practice was sprinkled with timed 

mile and two-mile runs. petitive," Fallon said, adding that 
any of the top 12 players have aThe 1978 tennis team does not good shot at the top six positions.
have the experience of last year's According to Fallon, the teamteam. To compensate, there will be should be one of great depth. Thegreater emphasis on physical con­players on the lower end of theditioning, according to Fallon. 
ladder will constantly be pushing"Last year the experienced players the higher players to play up tocould almost run practices on their their potential.
own," Fallon said. This year's "The freshmen are not onlyteam will see "more structured adding to the team with theirpractices." Drills and conditioning talents, but their enthusiasm hasexercises will play a larger role in added greatly to the team morale,''practice this fall than in the east. 
pointed out Hopwood. "It's just a 

"We have not started challenge matter of pride to us. We feel that matches yet, but once they start, we can do better than last year and practices should become very cum-we worked hard this summer to 

that end." 
Fall tennis .at Notre Dame is centered around the Notre Dame Invitational. This tournament draws some of the top tennis talent in the area. Players from Oral Roberts University, Southern Illi­nois University, Indiana State, University of Michigan, Cincinatti, Miami of Ohio and Indiana will test Fallon's new methods the weekend of October 7 in the tournament. 
''The teams in it are very tough so we will be underdogs going into the invitational. It will provide a stiff test for our players," Fallon said. 




