




Bar owners, neighbors to revise agreement 
by Bob V arettoni Senior Staff Reporte1r 
Bar owners and the Northeast Neighborhood Council have de­cided to revise an agreement made last April about noise and litter problems in the Corby-Eddy area. 
At a South Bend Board of Safety meeting Friday afternoon in the County-City Building, the Council accused the owners of not comply­ing with a previous agreement to "be responsible for trash clean-up in a two-block area around their businesses." 
Art Quigley, Northeast Neigh­borhood Council president, said he would forget about the alleged violations of the old agreement if, by signing a revised copy of the old agreement on Wednesday, the owners make a "fresh start." 
In recent weeks, according to Board of Safety member Eugene Dziubinski, the litter and noise in the Corby-Eddy area had reached a point where the Council felt that the bar owners had not lived up to last year's agreement. 
"I'm offended by the suggestion that we abrogated any agreement. We've spent a heck of a lot of money cleaning up the Corby area,'' Harold Rowley, part..owner of Corby's tavern, reacted. 
Rowley said that the Northeast Neighborhood Council was making "shotgun accusations." He added that "we've broken our necks" to remove the litter outside Corby's. 
John Roos, ND government pro­fessor and member of the Council, countered that the area in front of Corby's by the gas station was "just filled with beer cans and beer cups. This area has been terrible." 
Crowley observed that some of this garbage could have resulted from off-campus parties and keg­gers. "Many times I find bottles outside Corby's that we don't even sell there," he noted. 
"From the observing I've done," Dziubinski said, "if those beer cups and cans are not yours, then you're really the victim of unusual circumstances. Even if you are, you're going to get blamed for that litter, anyway." 
Nickie' s manager, "Bullet," admitted that there may be a litter problem, but only because Rick Kanser, who had been the owner's representative under the old agree­ment, sold his interest in the Library. 
"We no longer had a representa­tive," Bullet said. "I didn't have the pressure of someone calling me up to say 'do it.' We gave it a good try last year. If there was a tighter organization, we could do it again." 
"You folks have got to get your act together,'' Roos said, refen;ng to the tavern owners. "I go to the 
council meetings, and people say I'm a sucker. I tell them there's an agreement, but they don't see anything being done." 
Dziubinski said he would only revise the names and dates, not the content of the old agreement. This revision will be signed Wednesday afternoon by Quigley, Dziubinski, and a yet to be determined repre­sentative of the tavern owners. Dziubinski said he wanted such an agreement signed during "the critical period between now and when the students leave for the summer." 
"I don't want you to lose business," Quigley said, in conclu­sion, to the owners. "I just wa.nt you to make a nice, quiet, litterless profit." 
Andy McKenna, student body president, and John Fitzpatrick, off-campus commissioner, attend­ed Friday's meeting. Dave Tatum, owner of the Library, Theresa Bauer, part-owner of Bridget McGuire's, and an unofficial observer from the South Bend Police Department also attended. 
lronman five starts tomorrow, so if you've been sitting on your duff all winter you'd better get out and practice before it's too late. [Photo by Doug Christian] 
Rizzo outlines coordinator's role 
by Sue Wueteber 
"My role is to provide assistance to students who violate University rules and regulations," said Jayne Rizzo, newly elected judicial coor­dinator. "Not enough students know their options. We want to counsel them before they see Dean Roemer, to make sure their student rights are not violated," she added. 
Rizzo stated that besides under­graduate representation, her duties include overseeing the hall Judicail Boards; coordinating the Judicial Council, whieh is made up of the J-Board Chairmen from each hall, and being a member of the Student Union Board of Commissioners. 
"We holM! to strenghten the Judicial Council into a collective identity," sht~ remarked. "It will meet every two weeks, the first meeting being today. In this initial meeting, we.' hope to elect a representative to the Campus Life Council," she said. 
John Dziminski, student union press secretary, observed that the 

Terrorists threaten Moro's ·life 
ROME [AP]--ltaly's president told the terrorist kidnappers of former Premier Aldo Moro yesterday that killing him would be a "fatal error" and would gain them "absolutely nothing." 
President Giovanni Leone's appeal for the life of his longtime colleague was made indirectly in an open message to Moro's wife one day after the Red Brigades kidnap­pers announced that a "people's court" had condemned Moro to death. 
The ruling Christian Democrat Party, meanwhile, indicated a pos­sible softening of its refusal to deal with the Marxist urban guerrilla group for the release of Moro, who is party president. 
The Brigades kidnapped the new Judicial Coordinator has more authority than any in the past. Commenting on this, Rizzo noted that according to the new Constitu­tion, the Judicial Coordinator is no longer a Cabinet position. 
"It is now a third branch of government, along with Student Government and Student Union," she explained. "I was elected by the out-going J-Board Chairmen. We are not, however, totally sepa­rated from Andy McKenna's Cabi­net," she added. 
Also new is her seat on the Student Union Board of Commis­sioners. "I'll be working more with the Administration," she said. "It's important to know and re­spect Dean Roemer." 
One area that expressly concerns Rizzo is that of rector communica­tion. "It's important to keep in contact with the rectors," she stated. "They are a vital link. They are the ones who determine the seriousness of student offen­ses." Rizzo explained that if stu­dents show themselves to be willing and able to take resoonsibi­
61-year-old Moro and killed his five bodyguards March 16 in a Rome street ambush. His captors announced in six subsequent mes­sages left in public places across Italy that he was undergoing a "people's trial." 
On Saturday they said he had been "sentenced to die" for com­plicity in Christian Democrat policies. 
Leone issued his statement after he met with Premier Giulio Andreotti and Interior Minister Francesco Cossiga in a search for ways to save Moro's life. _ 

The presidential message to Moro's wife said a "terrifying threat looms for Aldo Moro" and added: "A sense of humanity may induce them (Moro's captors) into a lity for their actions, more authority may be delegated to the hall J-Boards. 
Rizzo revealed that specific plans are already underway for the new school year. "When we get bact, I'd like to have a workshop for all the J-Board chairmen," she said. "I don't want to regulate all the halls. Every one is different. Instead I'd like to give the chair­men an idea of a just and proper way of handling cases withing the halls," she noted. 
Other courses of action approved by Rizzo include a students' rights manual, which would list university rules and regulations, and the students recourse to various offen­ses. Also, a letter that advises them to acquaint themselves with their rights and their hall J-Board chairmen will be sent to all students. "The letter will also give my office phone number and my home phone number.," she said. "The most important thing is to make myself available to the stu­dents. Most of them are not aware of their rights and options." 
gesture of repentance ... and drive them to spare a life whose sacrifice would gain them nothing, absolute­ly nothing." 
The government and the Chris­tian Democrats have rejected the Brigades' demands, made through letters written by Moro, for the release of jailed terrorists. Fifteen Red Brigades leaders are on trial in Turin, charged with sedition. 
But ChriStian Democrat leaders, after a three-hour meeting yester­day, said through Deputy Secretary Giovanni Galloni that the party, while "aware of our duties before the nation" was "anguished about the life of Moro andthereforeon the humanitarian level we feel that his life must be spared by all the means juridically possible and legi­timate." 
Christian Democrats in the past have not ruied out the possibility of buying Moro's freedom with ran­som money from his friends or family. 
The Communist Party, largest of the parties supporting the Chris­tian Democrat minority govern­ment in Parliament, urged the nation's leaders to maintain their tough stance. 
The Communist newspaper L'Unita said in a front-page editori­al that "emotional feelings must not prevail on the coolness and calm necessary in this grave hour" and that politicians "must continue to display their sense of responsibi­lity before the republic." 
Police continuing the search for Moro set up checkpoints and stopped thousands of motorists who left the cities on Italy's fist sunny day after two weeks of rain. Some 50,000 police and soldiers have been pressed into service in the hunt, but have turned up no solid leads. 

--------------------~­
Monday, April17, 1978
the observer 

Weather 

Ooudy and windy today with a 30 percent chance of showers late. Highs mid to upper 50s. A 70 percent chance of showers tonight and tomorrow. Lows tonight low to mid 40s. High tomorrow upper 50s to low 60s. Southeast winds 15-20 mph and gusty today. 
~On Campus Today-~ 
12:30 pm  film, "marriage," spon. by women's rights associa­tion rm. 105 law school.  
3:15 pm  career workshop, "assertive training and interview skills," by suzanne areson and mary Iaverty, spon. by career development rm. 107 lemans.  
3:30 pm  open forum, with judge harold Ieventhai of the u.s. circuit court of appeals, d.c. spon. by white ctr. for law, government, & human rights. law school lounge. no charge.  
4:30pm  reilly lecture, "phosphorylase & the covalent control of metabolic pathways," by prof. edmond h.· fischer, u of washington, seattle, spon. by chem. cept., 123 nieuwland science hall.  
4:30 pm  lecture, "working clinically with older people in the community: do we understand what we see? by gene d. cohen, m.d., nat'l inst. of mental health, spon. by mental health outreach program for the elderly, haggar aud.  
4:30pm  ward-phillips apprentice as paulson, yale aud.  lecture series, "the popular print: subculture figure," by prof. ronald u. spon. by english dept. mem. lib.  
6:30pm  registration, pre-advanced registration meeting for freshmen, spon. by freshman year of studies, engr. aud.  
6:30 pm  banquet, south bend press club hoaxes & banquet, cocktails 5:30 pm, ace.  
6:45 pm  rosary, daily at the grotto.  ,  
7:20pm  duplicate bridge, ladies of nd, faculfy, & staff. univ. club.  
7:30pm  lecture, "super realism: the sublime," by _gregory battock, author/art critic, span. by nd art dept. & art gallery, nd art gallery, o'shag. no charge.  
8 pm  lecture, "The value of virtue: can corporate morality be measured?" by ralph w. estes, spon. by the joint univ. committee on business, theology, & philo­sophy, galvin biology bldg. aud.  
8pm  film series, "king henry v," laurence olivier, spon. by college of a & I, & medieval institute. engr. aud., no charge.  
8pm  second scene drama, "the belle of amherst," spon. by nd/smc theatre, stapleton lounge, lemans hall, no charge.  

Observer Editoriai Board 
Tony Pace Editor-in-Chief 
Steve Odland Managing Editor 
John Calcutt Executive Editor. 
Barb Langhenry Executive Editor 
Rosemary Mills Editorial Editor 
Phil Cackley Copy Editor 
Jean Powley St. Mary's Editor 
Ann Gales News Editor 
Mike Lewis News Editor 
Diane Wilson News Editor 
Ray 0' Brien Sports Editor 
Bryan Grulev Features Editor 
'-----------------------~-------------J


Wage and Price Council tries to restrain inflation 
WASHINGTON [API -The director of the president's Council on Wage and Price Stability said yesterday the federal government is prepared to use economic pressure to per­suade private business to help restrain inflation. 
Barry P. Bosworth, the director, said the government would "real­ign procurement policies" based on how well businesses keep their prices down. 
Hosworth made the statement in an appearance on the NBC television program "Meet the Press." He expanded on it in a telephone interview with The Asso­ciated Press. 
He said the government buys enough that it can influence infla­tion policies in private industry. By delaying purchases from compan­ies that don't hold the line on prices ui switching to alternate products, it can reward those who he!p fight inflation and pressure those who do not. 
"The extent to which you can do it is limited," Bosworth said. 
"Probably the most promising area is in food purchases." 
He said the economic pressure probably would be applied through a program "to identify on a quarterly basis those products whose prices are rising rapidly." Government purchasers then would try to either buy alternate products or delay the purchase. 
However, BQsworth said charac­terizing the program as a "federal boycott" was too strong. He said it is more of an attempt by the government to act as an informed consumer. 
The Observer Is published Mon. dly through FrkiiY except during ex1m 1nd v.atlon periods. Tile Obse1ver Is published by the students of Notre Deme 1nd S1lnt Miry's College. Subscriptions m1y be pUrchiSed for 520 per yelr ($1 0 per semester) from The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dime, lndi1n1 4U56. Second ct..s postqe p11d, Notre Dime, lndllnl, 46556. . The ObServer Is 1 membar of the Allodltld Prell. All repro­duction rtghh 1re reaerved. 



Carter meets with Cabinet 
CAMP DAVID*Md. [AP] -Presi­
dent Carter summoned his Cabinet 
and senior advisors to a secluded 
administration summit meeting 
yesterday against a backdrop of 
continuing political problems for 
his 15-month-old administration. 
Two large Marine Corps helicop­
ters were enlisted to carry the 
government leaders, including Vice 
President Walter F. Mondale, from 
Washington to this presidential 
resort in the Catoctin mountains. 
White House press secretary 
Jody Powell stressed that the 
meetings were called to discuss . 
procedures for long-range decision­
making among· the White House 
staff and Cabinet members and not 
for policy discussions. 
Walt Wurfel, one of Powell's 
deputies, said the formal meetings 
would take place this morning. 
Before his guests arrived, Carter 
attended a church service conduct­
'DiVOrCe' 
to follow 
'Marriage' 
The Women's Rights Association of the Notre Dame Law School will present three films as part of their "Women and the Law" series. All films will be shown on consecutive Mondays beginnning today in Rm. lOS ofthe Law School from 12:30-1 p.m. 
The film "Marriage" will be shown today. "Divorce" will appear April24, followed by "Wel­fare" on May-1. 



r!~:;..,~~~:~~~~J
Asst. Night Editor: Sandra B. 
Colson 
Layout Staff: Sue Wuetcher, 
Bill Devitt, Katie Kerwin 
Sports layout: Mark Perry 
Typists: Mark Rust, Anne 
Giere, Carol Erkman, Mary 
McCauley 
Night Controller: Mardi Nevin 
Day Editor: Bob Bernoski 
Copy Reader: Debbie Dahr­
ling 
Ad Layout: Rob Civetello 
Photographer: Doug Christian 
Special Guest: Chris Smith 
This week's paper of the week: 
Joe 'n Sandy (yea!) 

llast .week's pa~er of tJle weekJ: ~ Kahe 'n Margte _ 




phy&iG& department univel6ity ofnotre dome 
RECOMMENDED UNIVERSITY ELECTIVES DESCRIPTIVE ASTRONOMY 11MWF and 2MWF Ft-. Shilts A1ys 210 
Prerequisite: A one year introductory science course including at least one serrester of 
physical science.  
A description of the motion and structures of the earth,  moon,  and planets.  An  
expositionof the  modem  theories of the  sun,  stars,  nebulae and  galaxies.  An  
introduction of cosmology.  Sorre exarY1Jies of the influence of astronomy on  the  

developrrent of science and civilization. The course includes elerrentary observational exercises. It is intended rimaril for non-science ma·ors. 
ELECTIVES FOR SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING STUDENTS 
INSTRUMENTATION WITH MICROPROCESSORS A1ys403 t MWF and dloice of labs Prof. Blackstead 
Prerequisite: Prior experience with BASIC or FORTRAN and permission of instructor. Design and construction technique for interfacing conventional l~ratory ~paratus t_? microprocessors will be illustrat~ with the use of ·a th1rd generat1o~ l6-~1t microprocessor. Students will des1gn and construct interface cirruits couplmg w1th microprocessors to such apparatus as analog-digital converters, x-y recorders, oscilloscopes, and particle detectors. Microprocessor architecture and instructionsets will be disrussed, but the use of asserrbler language programs will be secondary to the use of BASIC programs. The design laboratory data aquisition system will surrmarize the course's activities. 
ed on the Camp David grounds by 
Lt. Col. Cecil Reed, chaplain at 
nearby Fort Richie. 
The gathering of more than two 

dozen officials at the isolated 
setting for an overnight visit was 
the first such conference since 
Carter, his prospective Cabinet and 
top aides met at St. Simons Island, 
Ga., three weeks before inaugura­
tion day. 
Concern over the president's political problems was evident in the fact that John White, the new chairman of the Democratic Nation­al Committee, was invited to the conference. 
The meeting came as the admini­stration faced two significant dates: on tomorrow the vote in the Senate on the second Panama Canal treaty and, on Thursday, the first anniver­sary of Carter's declaration of ''the moral equivalent of war" in form­ing a national energy policy. 
Howard Baker of Tennessee, Senate Republican leader, predict­ed Sunday that the Senate would narrowly approve the treatv return­ing control of the Panama Canal to 
Panama by the year 2000. 
He made the prediction in an 
appearance on the CBS televisins 
program "Face the Nation." 
Congressional energy conferees 
still are at odds over the details of 
an energy policy. After 15 months 
in office, the president finds that 
his oopularity, as measured in 
national opinion polls, is continuing; 
to slip. 

A New York Times-CBS sample 
showed last week that a record low 
of 46 percent of those polled 
approved the way Carter was doing 
his job. 

Billiards semi's scheduled 
The semi-finals of the Notre Dame billiards tournament will be held tonight at 6 p.m. in the pool room in the basement of LaFor­tune. 
All interested persons are invited to attend. 
MAY


GRADUX..__..._....IES 
SNELLING AND SNELLING, world's largest employment service with JIIOra than 550 offices, Is seeking College Graduates for 11verallarga companies we represent who need professionals In the following fields: 
Accountina Sales Rnancial Analysis Administrative Data Processing Manager Trainee Systems Personnel Engineering Tedlnical Areas 
NOW IS THE TIME TD give serious thought to your futu11; and Ill one of our 5 profNSional Employment Counsallora aullt and guldl you; you may call or come In with complete confidentiality to: 
Charmerof Convnerce Bldg. 
224 W. Jefferson Blvd. S-311 South Bend, Ind. 234-9011 

A liaMJsed ~loyment Agency 
:!· 
.': ....... 
... 




;Ski tram accident kills four 
/ SQUAW VALLEY, Calif. [AP] • being stopped by a safety cable 100 
1 It was the ski tram's last trip ofthe feet above the ground. 
I day down the. mountain at Squ~w "My husband disappeared and Valley, and tt was loaded wtth the side ofthe car disappeared, but vacationers. Then one of three his skis were still there," said a thick cables popped off its roller horrifi~d Mrs. Penning of Menlo and ripped through the car, killing Park.· · four perso"s and injuring the other "It!was pretty snowy with gusty 30 aboard. '. winds up to 40 miles an hour" at A second tram car on the same the time of the accident, Boardman line was heading up the mountain said; but he added he did not with 70 persons and piles of ski believe the winds were a factor. gear. No one inside was injured, "We have run the trams in a lot but that c~r ·was left dangling higher winds," he said. "The tram hundreds of ;feet from the ground has been excellent in very high during a 10-hour rescue operation winds. The.winds today were not that ~asted until early yesterday excessive." mormng. .'Three of those who died were "There were sereams and moans killed immediately, and the fourth and it was 1.awful," said Bruce died in the arms of a rescue worker Zimmerman, ~9. of San Francisco, as he tried to carry her to safety. who was in the downward-bound "She died with me on the way car. He said the car gave a sudden down," the 22-year-old rescuer, 
jerk, then there was the sound of · 
cut through the car and crushed several persons tJ the floor. 
An official sai~ une of the car's three cables had! gone slack and 
jumped off its roller, just after the 10-foot-wide, 30-foot-long tram 
begap its deso~nt of Emigrant
Peak:. From 8.(100 feet up the 
mountain, it went boundng so to 70 
feet down the rem aimn g lines' then 
slid rapidly dow~hil! :mother 100 
feet before it wv haltec! by an emergency cable. 70 feet a!Jove the ground. 
At that poin• ithe loo~t> cable "looped around die (;at and sliced through it," s~id Bill Bo;miman, director of the Squaw Vlliley Ski Corp. He said the; car iook:ed like "a shredded can." 
Mary Penning'"' !tusband, David, 
celebrating his 47th birthday, suf· 
fered broken rib., \1/bero the whip· 
ping cable tore tll'nugh the ~ar. It 
slipped more tha..11 JO fef'~ before Ken Spencer, said. "It really puts a lump in your throat." 

Placer CouiJtty Sheriffs Sgt. Steve Cader idc:~ntified the dead as Gina Wismicwski, 20, and her husband, Dean, 31, of Alameda; Deepak K. Mer·chant, 30, of Menlo Park; and Lawrence A. Hinkle, 27, of Milpitas. 
Officials said the first car had jumped the cable or the cable had snapped. When that happened, it sent passengers tumbling over each other. 
"It took us 15 to 20 minutes just to get everyone off each other," said one passenger, Richard Schipp of San Francisc:o. "Everyone was on top of everbody." 
But Dr. Roy Oayburn of Stock­ton, the 11th rnan to be lowered, said, "I've never seen a rescue operation flow so well." 
_.....,. 

ripping metal as the heavy cable ·~!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~!J!!PJr;Our=i1~·~1 
PREPARE FOR· J~ ~ 
MCJ" •Dl" ... LSI" ~ IMI" J. Y••
11 11 II II 
• .... II" II" 
• ~I • II • 11 
~-~ J,JJ,JJJ•ECf•&•fLEJ•IQE
Ill Ill NAT'L DENTAL BOARDS • NURSING BOARDS 
Flexible Programs • Hount 
CJ"hneiS • ••gnencell.P 
For Information Please Clll: Collect 

l~ 
West Lafayette 

EDUCATIONAL CUTIII JlJ-463-7541 TEST I'M"ARATKJH 
SHCIALIST5 SINCl 1938 

Serving BloolllmgtoD. IndimapoUs, South 
Bend For Locations in other cltie1 
Outside N.Y. State Only CALL TOll FREE: 800.223--1112 
eentert ln. Mllor us C_lttea Toronto, P111rto lllc:o end Lup110, Swltzerl•nd 
Register now for smnmer MCAT class. 
liiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiilii!!!i!!iiliiiiiiiiliiiliiiiiiiaiii~iiiiiiiifiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiliiiiill 
the SOOth Anniversary of Thomas More's Birth 
a man 
for all 


seasons 
by Robert BoH 

Center for Continuing a:auccmotnll 
Auditoriu All seats $2.50 ($2.00 students) Reservations: 284-417 6 
The Junior 0~ 
President of the 
Chicag~ 
White 'Sox 

21 

and 22 8:00PM 
I 
presents I 
I 
./
i 
I I 
I 
I 

Washington rtaU 
Tuesdav, I 18 April 
7:30PM' 
~-~-~---­
Monday, April17, 1978
the observer 



Molarity \ by Michael Molinelli 




Placement Bureau 
~-· 
.


er..~...w~,::.u-J!t~ a~;./.··.
,_tiMDI:ttt •nd ~,....-~. MPlo~at; ... · ~"*o~. 1~(:/.}::::::: jff:{ .......... V'lo• l'llqottotl •• s~ ft..·.l10• .-n~. 
.. : ::r,:;:;:;.;.~;:-: .·: ... 
:!a.. •••h«h• Yitll tloo n-IIUn,;;; J;~~~~ • 
up Ntf hottl.. l•tt -• f._ tJI!:ont-f"" tlliu.r ···•6 •:•~::: 01111 un. . .)}{{\ 
April 17 -April 21 I 
I
I I 
j
\ Thia Wtoek At The 
i
q&r.ar Develcpmcnt Center ::~tnt ~~ary'e College 
I
I 2'14-4431 
I 
tt:T~'!!F.W::!/ \


---, I I 
~ I MAJOR OOSJNED 
~ 

1. April 21 ~s. April 25  All till!ll\Ot"S All M8..1ors  
I I  

~ l.D, • ~:~,t. ~J.Jaion ~:akillf'  ::~ 41'· ·  00­~ p.m. I  ~ L. Wilson "..A. Daly  .  ~ Y.eCandles.s Piano Rm.  
Va~es Clar1tleation I Thurs. i 4/20  3:15­5:15  Pat MeCormae"lt  (161 l.M,) Executive Board Rm.  



ftpen to all ::atnt ~.fary'l and Notre Dame e 
dante. 
at .the CDC, Student Af't'b\rl Wing, 175 '~· 
na Hall. 
1.n~onu.t1on on po•tponet:tent• and caneella 
icna. 


Italian trains 
BOWGNA• Ualy [U]-Searchers cutting through the crumpled coa­rhes of a Venice-Rome express train reported yesterday that at least 43 persons were killed when it collided with another passenger train. 
3ne American passenger, Ema Steel of Beverly Hills, Calif., was reported missing. An estimated 120, including her husband and two other Americans, were injured and taken to hospitals. 
The southbound express crashed head-on into-a north-bound train Samrday in mountains 19 miles 
Authoril I gercd b 
t1
i across i northbOi 
Bari tot' \ into the ,...,........ !was tra·: ­
coaches'' .the Lagt• embankfl 
Red.., ONLY. 
The launi._ 
coupons April ~. 



Courts disfavor Indian claims 
WASHINGTON [AP]--Recent court decisions a][ld proposed settlements 1 

, are dealing blows to American Indian efforts to reclaim lost lands and achieve tribal sovereignty. : Although many disputes have not yet been resolved, the initial results indicate Indians are not. getting everything they seek--and in some cases nothing at all. Perhaps the most significant disputes in which courts have recently ruled involve the Wam­panoag Indians in Massachusetts and a tribe in Washington seeking the right to prosecute non-Indians on reservation land. 
Art department sponsors lecture 
"Super Realism: The Sublime Abstraction and the Decline of Formalism" is the topic of a lecture to be given by Gregory Battock, art critic, editor and educator, in the Notre Dame Art Gallery at 7:30 
p.m. tonight. Co-sponsored by the Art Gallery and the Art Depart­ment, the talk is open to the public without charge. 
An associate professor of art at William Patterson College in New Jersey and .at New York University, Battock has edited "The New Art," "Minimal Art," "New ldeas in Art," "The New American Cinema" and "New Artists Video.'' He was editor-in-chief of Arts Magazine from 1973 to 1975 and has contributed articles to Arts Magazine, Art in America and Art and Artists .. 
The W ampanoags claimed title to about $30 million worth of prime Cape Cod land around Mashpee, arguing the land was unlawfully taken from their ancestors by the state because it failed to get approval from Congress, as federal law required at that time. 
However, a federal judge ruled the Wampanoags, who greeted the Pilgrims when they stepped ashore, does not constitute a legal tribe and therefore could not claim the land. Tribal attorneys say they will appeal. 
In another case, the Supreme Court forbad tribes from prosecut­ing non-Indians who violate tribal laws on reservation lands. The decision, involving the Suquamish tribe in Washington, was viewed by observers as a major setback for Indians seeking complete self­determination. 
The nation's most celebrated case involves a claim by the Passamaquoddy and Penobscot tribes to 12.5 million acres of land in Maine, an area representing two-thirds of the state. 
The tribes have voted over­whelmingly to accept a White House-negotiated settlement that would give the Indians $25 million in federal money; all that to buy 300,000 acres of prime timberland at $5 an acre, most of which is now owned by 14 large landowners; annual state payments of $1.7 million for 15 years; and the option to purchase 200,000 additional acres at the fair market value of about $112 an acre. 
Timber companies and state officials have spoken out against the settlement, b~t left the door open for further negotiations. The tribes have given the state until May 10 to respond officially to the offer. Another case in which a tribe appears willing to settle for less than originally asked involves the Narragansetts in Rhode Island. 

The tribe filed suit in 1975 to get title to 3,500 acres in Charlestown. But a proposed agreement worked out by local landowners and feder­al, state, city and tribal officials pared the total down to 1,900 acres. It includes about 1 , 000 acres of state land and 900 acres of undevel­oped private land, 
Not all recent actions, however, involve defeat or compromise for the Indians. President Carter recently signed into law a bill permitting the Sioux Indians once again to ask the U.S. Court of Claims to rule the federal govern­ment unconstitutionally acquired more than seven million acres of land in South Dakota's Black Hills in 1877. The court ruled against the 
-Sioux in 1942. 


----PRE-ADVANCE REGISTRAllON PROGiRAI____IIIIIIII. 
Pre-advance registration programs will be areas on MONDAY, APRIL 17 at 6:30P.M. 
At  each  program  complete  information  
procedures  and  on  the  sophomore  year  
At  some  of  the  programs  there  will  

students, as well as tours of the facilities. 
The meeting places for the programs, follows: 
conducted for freshmen in all college program 
will be given on the advance registration and its relationship to the degree curnculum. be mixers with the faculty and upperclass 
according to college program area, are as 
Arts and Letters College Programs (all, including AL Preprofessional) Engineering Auditorium 
Business Administration College Program Hayes-Healy Center, Room 122, A through G at 6:30 P.M. 
Engineering College Programs 
Aerospace Architecture Chemical Civil Electrical Engineering Science Mechanical Metallurgical 
Please 1ign up tr. Call the COC f'Ol 

.;.·-------~---~-~--~-­
,Jiogy 
.hemistry C:arth Sciences Mathematics Microbiology PhysiLs Preprofessional 
(Science only) H through 0 at 7:30P.M. 
P through Z at 8:30P.M. 

Engineering Bldg., Room 303 Architecture Bldg., Room 202 Nieuwland Science Hall, Room 123 Engineering Bldg., Room 205 Engineering Bldg., Room 212 Engineering Bldg., Room 22 Engineering Bldg., Room 303 Enginefring Bldg., Room 5 
Galvin Life Science Center, Room 278 Nieuwland Science Hall, Room 331 Earth Science Bldg., Room 101 Computing Center & Math Bldg., Room 300 Galvin Life Science Center, Room 102 Nieuwland Science Hall, Room 327 Nieuwland Science Hall. Room 127 
NOW AVAILh 
i

AT ., NOTRE DAMI: 
·

BOOKSTORE ~ ARE REQUIRED TO ATTEND THE PROGRAM OF THE COLLEGE 
\THE" INTEND TO ENTER IN THE SOPHOMORE YEAR 
·". 
south of this central Italian city. 

d~~. ,.........................~ 

and 1-3 p.m. St.. ~--················ 
..• 


--~----~--~--­
--.......--,-. 
-I 


Monday, April17, 1978 


Botulism strikes in New Mexico 
CLOVIS* N.M. [AP]-One of the what was traced to improperly largest outbreaks of botulism in the prepared home canned peppers United States this century--29 service in a Mexican restaurant in cases--has been traced to a posh Pontiac, Mich. There were no country club here, and authorities deaths. said yesterday they have made New Mexico health investigators emergency preparations in the say those stricken were among 800 event more people were stricken. people who dined at the swank 
Dr. Jonathan Mann, the state's Colonial Park Country Club res­chief medical officer, said a third of taurant between April 9 and April the sick were in serious condition 13. and placed on respirators. No Mann said the restaurant, which deaths were reported. has voluntarily closed while offi­
"What we feat is that the source cials try to track down the source of of the poisoning is possibly a the contamination, appeared to commercially sold food pmduct, have good food' management and which could mean others in other sanitation practices. parts of the country will get hold of This has led authorities to suspect it also," Mann said. that commercially prepared food 
Last year, in what the national that may have been distributed Center for Disease Control in elsewhere was the source of the Atlanta said was the worst out­food poisoning. break of botulism in U.S. history, Mann said Sunday that he asked 59 persons were sickened from the CDC to provide 100 more vials 
Summer courses planned 
Courses on the abortion issue and on contemporary music will be offered for former Notre Dame students returning to the campus July 24-28. Sponsored by the ND Alumni Association and the Center for Continuing Education, (CCE), the courses are entitled ''The Church and the Quality of Life: The Abortion Issue" and "Contem­porary Music: New Noise or Liberal Art?" 
Faculty members of the Univer­sity's regular summer session will teach the subjects, designed to update an individual's education at a leisurely pace. 
Dr. John Jo. Lyon, associate professor and chairman of the General Program of Liberal Stud­ies, and Dr. James Powell, assist­ant director of the CCE are coordinating the alumni courses. Faculty members include Fr. Ed­ward Malloy, theology; Dr. Julian 
NOTICES 
WILL DO TYPING. NEAT. ACCURATE. CALL 287-5162. 
EUROPE: Less than 1/2 Economy fare. Guaranteed reservations. Call Toll Free 800-325-4867 or see your travel agent. Uni travel Charters. 
FLANNER RECORDS INVENTORY CLEARANCE SALE: All $7.981ist lp's in stock only $4.97. All $6.98 list lp's only $4.39. All double lp's specially priced. Flanner Records. 322 Flanner. Ph-2741. 
Hours: M-Th, 4·5, 6:30-8. 
CONTACT LENS WEARERS: Save on brand name supplies for hard and soft lens. Send for free catalog. Contact Lens Supplies, Box 7453, Phoenix Arizona. 85011. 
Dissertations, manuscripts, etc...typed. 
IBM Selectric II. Linda's Letters. 
287-4971. 
TYPING DONE REASONABLE RATES CALL8086 
Need ride for one lovely girl from Pittsburgh and back An Tostal weekend. She can drive, she can pay. and she is good company! Call 6734. 
NEED QUALITY TYPING? Executary Inc. Professional Typing Service, IBM correcting selectrics. $.85 per page minimum. Call 232·0898 "When you want the best." 
FOR RENT 
One bedroom apartment to sublet for summer. Good loaction, security, good terms. Call 288·7258. 
Two completely furnished houses for rent this summer. A couple of blocks from campus. Safe neighborhood. One four bedroom. one six bedroom, approx $1 00 a month. 277-3604. 
Staying for the summer? Rent a house and live off-campus. Lower summer rent, close to campus, call 8730 or 8742 for more details. 
Fine house In a good neighborhood (Portage and Angela area). Reasonable rents. For 4 -5-or 6 students. Contact Joe Gatto, 234-6688. 
Pleasants, microbiology; Dr. Char­les E. Rice, law; Willian Cerny, Ethal Haimo, Dr. David C. Isele, Sue Seid-Martin, music: and Dr. Linda C. Ferguson, General Program. Ralph Klapis will be the guest artist for the music course. Tuition fees include lodging in the air-conditioned Grace Hall and all meals in the North Dining Hall. Campus recreational, social and cultural activities are included. 
French Club to meet 
The French Oub will meet tomorrow night at 5 p.m. in the Faculty Dining Room of the South Dining Hall. 
Mme. Sorin, from Dinard, will be the guest speaker. . Members and friends are invited to attend. Persons with questions should call Diane at 8136 or Phil 3136. 
Two rooms lor rent this summer school. $40 ea month. 233-1329. 
FOR SALE 
LAST OFFER-Classic Ovation guitar wfth new hard case. Perfect condition. $225. Call G'ene at 1694. 
Technics turntable-Model SL-1400 MK2 professional series, direct drive. Mint condition -only two weeks old. Need money! Call Mark 233·5256. 
Used golf balls like new. $20 per 100 and other prices. Call 272·0783. 
FULL COLOR COTTON BOWLAND USC FOOTBALL: UCLA...MARYLAND AND KENTUCKY BASKETBALL PICTURES FOR SALE. SPORTS ILLUSTRATED MATERIAL AT A LOW PRICE. CALL DOUG AT 8982 or stop by 318 Zahm. 
Stereo equipment major brand discounts on fully guaranteed factory sealed and audio-video eqt. Elliot enterprises, Park Court, Buchanon MI. 49107. Call Niles toll free 683-Q121. 
1968 Nova· 71,000 miles, a little rough, but it runs good. Tires new Aug '77. Battery new November '77. $200 or best offer. all Jeff 232-. 6177 before 10 am or after 9 pm. 
LOST AND FOUND 
LOST: To the guy who picked me up hltchiking -I left ared folder in your car­test enclosed. Please call Mike 287-5568. 
FOUND: Gold watch with black band. Please call and identify. Joe 288·2688. 
LOST: Blue ND jacket at Nickies. Reward. Name in jacket. 
LOST: One pair plastic frame glasses in brown case. Call John 8642. 
LOST: At Cinnabar's, gold bracelet at Junior formal last Sunday night. $25 reward. Call Roseanne at 4-1-4719. 
FOUND: Girl's watch at Library circle. Call 277-5883 to identify. 
WANTED 
Need ride to Madison or Milwaukee weekend of April 22. Call Katie at 6798. 
.;,. 

or anti-toxin, and that military 
planes were alerted to stand by in 
case more patients needed to be 
evacuated to hospital intensive care 
units. 

Botulism, a serious form of food 
poisoning caused by toxin pro­
duced in certain bacteria some­
times found in improperly canned 
foods, has early symptoms of 
blured vision, slurred speech and 
muscular difficulties. 
Robert G. Bratt, an official of the federal Food and Drug Administra­tion, said the FDA was called in when it was suspected a commer­cial food caused the outbreak. 
"Our concem is finding the source of the poisoning and, if it involves a commercial food, we must find out the extent of its distribution," Brett said. 

~<Xl\11\DS 
f!: Mon -Thurs after 5:00pm 
Pi~her of Beer Y2pricew/purchase 
·Of 


large! pizza 
CNRf aJT II'ZA &I..DDI 
RliiBDf

a:-(BS 

NEEDED: Roomate tyo live off campus for next year. Have place now in Turtle Creek. Also willing to move! If interested call Tim anytime after 11 :30 pm at 277-5331. 
TENNIS PROS AND ASSISTANT PROS: Seasonal and year-.mund clubs : good playing and teaching' background. Call 301-654-3770 or send two comr.lete resumes and two pictures to : Co . R. Reade. W.T.S., 840'1 Connecticut Ave­nue, Suite 1011, Chevy Chase, MD. 
. 20015. 

Ride needed to DC area after senior formal. Will share driving and expenses. Call 272-5281. 
OVERSEAS JOBS~ Summer, ~·ear round. Europe S. America, Austarilia, Asia, etc. All fields, $500-1200 monthly • expenses paid. sightseeing. Free information ­
Write:  BHP  Co.,  Box  4490  Dept  14,  
Berkely CA. 94704.  
New  restaurant  needs  waitresses  and  

kitchen help but not necessary. Apply in person after 1 pm at Aunt Mike's Breakfast Barn, 51277 US 31 None block N of Austen Ad, South Bend. Ask for Aunt M;ke. 
Waitress neede -full or part time for local night club. Must be 21 . Looking especially lor girls staying here this summer. Good pay -apply at Vegetable Buddies. 
Mother works nights -live in babysitter needed. Will pay small wage. More for home than wages. Phone 291-Q531 before 5. 
PERSONALS 

Everyone should wish Margaret O'Con­nor a good day today [for no particular reason]. 
Wanted: Female with large pseudopods to fill position as mascot for the five amoebas. Try outs at 3:30 Dillon Courtyard. No experience necessary. 
Danny, 
After our rematch in backgammon you won't be able to say that agirl can't beat you at anything. 
Lisa 

Professor Donald Castro: We are four days away from the "Wizards". 
nobodv.~-­
asked! · 
-1 ­
He was in h1s twenties. So was she. Both were Catholic, unmarried, prayerful, creative. Both cared about people and cared for them. 
How come he never thought of the priesthood? How come she never thought of being a nun? 
"No one ever asked me:· they said. 
Is this your story? No one ever asked you? Well, we're asking. 

Mail Coupon Today!-------------­
2-3
I Please send information on: 
I 

0 Diocesan Priests 0 Religious Priests
I 

0 Brothers 0 Nuns 0 Lay Ministries
I 1I Name __________________________________________ 
I

I Address------------------------~-----------­
1 I City State ZIP ----­
1 --------------­
1 VOCATIONS COMMITTEE/SUPREME COUNCIL • 
I KRI6HTS OF £0LU.BUS
I New Haven, CT 06507 . 
---------------------~-------­
Patti · Congatulations.!! You're tQps! Love. MB 
To my verij favorite guy (Rig) Happy Birthday! Love, 
Diane 

Happy Birthday Daddy! From your loving daughter. 
Mellow is wonderful!! Long live Barry Manilow and Chicago. 
Ditto 

SMC·ND students: Are you an adopted child? Volunteers needed lor a sociolo­gical research project. Please contact Claudia, SMC 4544. Confidentiality and anonymity assured. Please contact before April 20. 
COLUMBUS OHIO-Female roomate wanted to share apt. this summer.. Call Debbie1329. 
Green '76 MGB for sale. Excellent condition. Call Shari 4·1-4981. 
Kelly Trlpucka for UMOC • send contri­butions to 224 B·P 
Hi Handsome! Are you Curly? I could've danced all night. 
Louie G: Who said three's a crowd? 
Need ride to Cleveland April 21. Will Call Gabe
share driving and expenses. 
1 

~ ;·M I classified 
Sorry about the ice. Frosh 
ads 

... ...... -­
·. "·'': .. .•:.·.. ,• '• .·.. ·...:· ,/ . :,, ...... . 
Curls! Curls! Curls! (Purple! Purple!) That's a curly _purple?! White?!? 
SLJ . What a face to wal<e up to! ! ! ! · Love, T.l. 
Dinders , Mike and the rest: Thanks for the best possible 20th possible. You are fantastic. Beans 
Hey Sexist! We demand an explanation on paper of the week. · · Women of The Observer 
Bo & Louie -even Pangborn freshmen deserve a personal. 
Sandy C: I love you madly! Your secret admirer 
Perrier water. 330 ml .69. 200 ml .49 or 6 for 2.89. Mar Main Pharmacy, 426 N. Mich. 
Dave And Bob: Thanks a million! The Farley Impromptus 
JLB: We did ltl Stave liked your creative front page • lsn't It nice I kept my mouth shut. 
Sandy 


SL___t~b~a~o~b~sa~rvuuer._____________~__~Y,_AP~"-11_7~,_19_7~a 

by Frank LaGrotta backfield to write the most interest­blcwski and Mike Calhoun at Sports W rlter ing statistical story of the day. tackes, with Bobby Leopold, Bob Stone, the afternoon's busiest ball Golic and Steve Heimkreiter filling About 200 people were on hand carrier with 1 OJ yards on 16 carries, the linebacker spots. Dave Waymer Saturday afternoon to see Notre started things off with a neat and Tom Flynn were at the corners Dame's defending national cham­29-yard scamper in which he shook with Jim Browner and Joe Restic pion football team "put it all off tackles like a dog shakes off taking care of the safety chores. together" in a three-hour scrim­fleas. On third down, Stone broke Randy Harrison could have played mage in the stadium. off tackle to score from eleven but Devine wanted to give the 
It didn't take long for the No. 1 yards out. He also snagged two reserves more playing time. offense to get things started. Led Rusty Lisch passes for 38 yards. Pete Johnson, playing at the No. by quarterback Joe Montana, the From the fullback spot, senior 2 linebacker spot, led all tacklers 
first-stringers took it right to the Pete Pallas carried 13 times for 43 with 8, followed by Golic and No. 2 defense and marched 70 yards. He also caught two passes Zettek with five each. Zettek yards in seven plays for the first for 11 yards. Lisch connected on six registered back-to-hack sacks score of the day. The drive was of nine attempts for 121 yards. Also against Knafelc accounting for highlighted by Jerome Heavens' seeing action at quarterback were losses totaling 41 yards. All in all, 17-yard touchdown jaunt. After a freshmen Mike Courey (10-20 for the offensive teams were penalized 
34-yard Joe Unis field goal capped 81 yards) and Greg Knafelc (6-15 seven times for 55 yards while the the next series, Coach Dan Devine for 65 yards). Courey threw the defense drew two yellow flags for excused his veteran backs. Mon­only touchdown pass of the after­losses totaling 42 yards. tana finished the day with three noon, a six-yard strike to wide InjUries have already started to completions on three attempts for receiver Ty Dickerson. The sopho­take its toll on many of the Irish 54 yards while Heavens racked up more receiver accounted for five players, as Tim Koegel, Tom 42 yards in four attempts. The receptions for 65 yards, high for all Vandenburgh, Jeff Weston, Jay scrimmage Saturday. [Photo by Ken McAlpine] 
senior fullback also pulled in a receivers. Case and Rick Buehner were forced offensive taclr.le John Scully was going to be." Montana aerial which was good for When the No. 2 offense toot on to watch the scrimmage from the helped from the field with a twisted "We haven't had too many 13 yards. Vagas Ferguson picked the No. 1 defense there really sidelines. Sophomore running knee. injuries," he continued, "but up 18 yards in four attempts from wasn't much ball-movement, as bact Ron Merriweather, just com­"When we leave the first team we've only been at it for eight days.his starting backfield position. one might expect. That defensive ing off a knee injury, carried seven we lose talent pretty fast," said I guess that·s about what you'd 
Enter Rusty Lisch, Jim Stone and alignment had Scott Zettet and times for 14 yards before incurring Devine. "When you have a bunch expect." Pete Pallas into the offensive Hardy Rayam at ends, Tom Wro-a bruised elbow. Number two of injury cases that's the way it's 
Netters post five weekend wins 
by Lou Severino gular. Coach Tom Fallon's club The N.D. squad clinched the two Sports Writer won the two day tourney by day championship Saturday after­defeating Eastern Kentucky, Bowl­noon defeating Northern Illinois 
The Notre Dame Tennis team ing Green and Northern Dlinois. 7-2. The top five singles players all enjoyed a highly successful week­Friday afternoon N.D. topped scored wins along with the first two end, winning 5 of 6 matches and Eastern Kentucky 6-3, winning 4 of doubles teams. Sophomore Tom capturing the 4 team Bowling 6 singles matches and 2 of 3 Westphal registered the most Green Quadrangular. Brian Hain­doubles battles. Harris, Horan, impressive win of the day topping line, Carlton Harris, and Marty and Westphal all posted straight his opponent 6-0, 6-2. Horan each won 5 of 6 singles set wins. The Horan-Koval duo The Irish concluded a busy matches over the weekend to lead provided the clinching victory as weekend Sunday afternoon split­the way for Notre Dame. they won a 6-4, 6-4 victory in the ting a pair of matches. Iowa 
Thursday afternoon the Irish number two doubles slot. knocked off N.D. 6-3 before the shut out Valparaiso 9-0, winning all The Irish rallied Saturday morn­netter came back to rout Marquette nine matches in straight sets. ing, edging Bowling Green 5-4 in a 9-0. Hainline and Horan were the Brian Hainline opened the match marathon four hour match. The only double winners of the day from his number one spot with a netmen trailed 4-3 until the doubles along with the Hainline-Harris 6-0, 6-1 victory. The senior from teams of Horan-Koval and the number one doubles team. The Detroit also teamed with Carlton freshmen pair of Hopwood-Hoyer shutout of Marquette evened Notre Harris for a 6-1, 6-0 doubles eked out 3 set wins in their number Dame's record at 11-11 on the victory. Herb Hopwood, Marty two and three doubles spots. season. Horan, Tom Westphal, and Mark Horan-Koval won 4-6, 6-3, 6-4 The squad has a four match road Hoyer also contributed singles while Hopwood-Hoyer were victor­trip this weekend facing Purdue, victories. ious 2-6, 7-5, 7-5. Hainline, Indiana, Michigan State, and Kal­
The Irish then traveled to Bowl­Harris, and Hoyer also contributed amazoo on the road. The team ing Green, Ohio where they cap­singles victories in the hard fought returns home Tuesday April 25 for tured the Bowling Green Quadran-match. a match with Western Michigan. 
Forsch no-hits Phils in St. Louis 
ST. Loms [AP]-St. Louis right­with Forsch's apraisal. seventh. In addition, Forsch struck 
hander IBob Forsch. with the help "I went down for the ball and kind out three batters. of a questionable call by the official of double-pumped, trying to pick The no-hitter was the first pitched scorer, pitched the major league's up the bounce." he said. "It just in the National League since Sept. first no-hitter of 1978 with a 5-0 went off the webbing of my glove. I 29. 1976, when San Francisco's 
decision over the Philadelphia Phil­should have had it. John Montefusco pitched one lies Sunday. "Sure, the Phillies thought it was against the Atlanta Braves. There 
"He ruled it an error and it's an a hit, but I was in a position to field were three no-hit games in the error," said the St. Louis Cardinal the ball. I should have had it. It American League. right-hander. should have been an easy play." The last Cardinal pitcher to hurl a 
The blond Forsch's reference was Maddox then was wiped out when no-hitter was Bob Gibson, who to a ground ball hit by Philadelphia Bob Boone hit into a double play. fired an 11-0 masterpiece against center fielder Garry Maddox lead­Forsch then retired the side in the the Pittsburgh Pirates on Aug. 14, ind off the eighth inning which eighth by getting Sizemore on a law 1971. The Phillies were last no-hit skipped off the webbing of Cardinal line drive to Garry Templeton at by Burt Hooton, when he was third baseman Ken Reitz' glove short. pitching for the Chicago Cubs on into left field. Forsch received a tumultuous April 16. 1972. 
DALLAS--College football's first Neal Russo of the St. Louis ovation when he came to bat in the
record for only one year. In 1975, one-game millionaire! Notre Dame, the shares of SS08,527.29 for Post-Dispatch called the play an last of the eighth, when the which sacked up the national "error," thus preserving Forsch's Cardinals scored their last run on a
Baylor and Penn State was also a 
championship with a victory over new CBAA high. place among baseball immortals bases-loaded walk to pinch-hitter Women's b-ballpreviously undefeated and No. 1 with a 5-0 masterpiece over the Dane lorg.
The Rose Bowl for several years
ranked Texas on January 2 in Philadelphia Phillies at windy In the ninth, Forsch nailed down signups
has paid each of its participants in 
Dallas, joined the elite receiving a Husch Stadium. the no-hitter by getting pinch-hitter
excess of a million dollars but on 
check. for a record $1,008,371.92 each occasion the Big Ten and When the ball first went through, Jay Johnstone. Bake McBride and The deadline for registering for from the Cotton Bowl Athletic Pacific 8 Conference Champions it appeared to all witnesses that the Larry Bowa all on ground balls with Women's Bookstore Basketball has Association it was announced shared their purses with other no-hitter was gone. But without the crowd cheering on every pitch. been extended to today. In order to Saturday. members of the conferences. hesitation, Russo signaled the play Forsch was mobbed by his red­sign up, call Betsy at 4-1-4214 
The Fighting Irish, as an inde­an error, thus turning the groans of jacketed teammates at the mound between 6 and 10 p.m. pendent, will not have to share the 11,495 St. Louis partisans to cheers as the crowd continued to cheer. The tournament also needs vol­record payoff, unlike the Long­as Forsch constructed the Cardi­Forsch waved his cap to the fans, unteers to referee and keep score. horns, and thus becomes the first Final call for nal~' first no-hitter since 1971 and who sat through football-like tem­For more information or to sign up, college team to retain all of a the Cardinals' first in the city since peratures in the mid-40s to witness call Amy at 4-1-5710. single-game check for more than Bookstore teams Jesse Haines beat the old Boston the brilliant performance. one million dollars. Texas received Braves 5-0 on June 17. 1924. Up until the eighth. there was The rules for Women's Book­
the same from the CBAA,. but will All teams competing in the "It was a kind of questionable nothing nearly resembling a hit off store will be basically the same as Bookstore Tournament who have those for Men's Bookstore with a
r•:tain only 200.000 as its share, call. but I guess it's got to be a Forsch. although the rangy right­
•hen will receive an additional not picked up their schedule and legitimate base hit." said Forsch, hander was tagged for long fly balls few exceptions. There will be no 
-~<),!H 9.11 from the Southwest paid their fee must do so between 5 shrugging his shoulders when by Mike Schmidt in the first. third substitutions during the games; and 7 p.m. tonight in room 140
( t>f:fercnce, its one-ninth share of asked by a horde of newsmen for and seventh innings. The first substitutions will be allowed be­the mainder. The total amount is Pangborn Hall or forfeit their spot his reaction. "I'm sure if you drive traveled 390 feet and the last tween the games. Only one varsity the our basemen two 400. basketball player is allowed
Leo a
also a •h for a SWt institution. in tournament. Latz, asked third about on The 1.. • -home pay for the two chairman for the tournament, said he'd be honest. I'm sure he felt he The 28-year-old Forsch gave up team. Cotton Bo~ .'articipants is a record that fifty-five teams have should have had the ball." two walks in the game-a pass to The starting date for Women's
not purse. The v· { checks for Houston picked up their schedule, and that Reitz, who set a National League Richie Hebner on four straight Bookstore will depend on how and Marylar.1 in 1977 were those who do not will be replaced record by committing only nine pitches in the fifth and a walk to many teams sign up, but the S920. 723.03 wh·-:h stood as a by teams on the waiting list. errors in 1977, hastily concurred Greg Lozinski on a 3-1 count in the tentative starting date is April 20. 













