

DelGrande elected chairman of HPC 
by Tim Sullivan HPC. "The chai;man should pre­Staff Reporter 
sent the budget quickly and choose the An Tostal chairman quickly.
Chuck DelGrande. former The Rockne Trophy process should Fisher, Hall president. was elected be speeded up. and the allocationthe new Hall Presidents' Council of funds procedure to halls for(HPC) chairman last night. de­activities should be clearly defined. 
feating Mark Huard. ex-president The CLC (Campus Life Council)of Keenan Hall, in a meeting held representative that is picked should at the Randall Inn. DelGrande be ready to vote on issues such asreplaces J.P. Russell. who has keg policy.'' he concluded bybeen chairman for the past two stressing the importance of student years. 
relations. In his pre-election speech, Del­The first vote was tied. and so aGrande outlined what he saw as the second ballot was taken. After hisprimary duties of the HPC chair­victory. DelGrande commented. "Iman, saying, "Besides running the
CJF announces results 
don't want to redefine the roles ofmeetings every Tuesday, he must the HPC. I want to continue theadminister responsibilities with the 
by Dave O'Keefe, dans in each instrumentir cate­consin) and J .R. Miller (Loyola). speakers present, and he good points that I outlined in my Staff Reporter gory. Piano: John Emche (Ohio 
The awards were based on the must speech. I'd like to work towards
fulfill his duties in Student Govern­
State). Flute: Rene Krinsler and votes of six judges, all prominent making the HPC the most repre­
ment. He sits on the Board of 
Unofficial attendance figures re­Kathy Boyd, both of the Wisconsin jazzmen themselves. They were sentative body on campus. I really 
Commissioners, to whom he must
flautist Hubert Laws. pianist John enjoy working on the HPC. and I
leased yesterday revealed that this Conservatory of Music. Acoustic present the budget, and serves on 
year's Collegiate Festival Bass: Karen Homer (Iowa) and Lewis, bassist Larry Ridley, drum­look forward to the coming year."
Jazz the student advisory board.'' 
brought in over nine thousand Dick Scarpola (Wisconsin). Electric mer Louie Bellson, saxophonist Lou In other business. J. P. Russell 
Bass: Cedric Williams of Notre TabakaQ. and critic and Festival He also stated that the HPC fills 
dollars in gate receipts alone. "The was presented with a beer tankard
advisor : Dan Morgenstern. Mor­an important function, in that it is
idea of the festival is not to make Dame. with a commerative inscription for 
money,'' commented Chairman Guitar: Charles Small (Wiscon-· genstern teaches jazz courses at "the most representative body on his work. "We've had a reallyRutger$ University, as do Ridley at campus." By discussing hall prob­
Jim Thomas, "but the Jazz Festival sin). Alto sax: Bob Thompson successful year, with good people 
(Iowa) and Bob Moore (Loyola) Livingston College and Lewis at the lems and generating ideas, Del­
has consistently lost money in the to work with--the HPC officers."
most
past." Tenor sax: Randy Mather (Ohio City College of New York. Grande surmised, ·the HPC Russell remarked. He then presen­Fourteen jazz bands and combos State) and Steve Hollivan (Wiscon­Thonl.as was impressed with the closely realizes student needs. tedmementoesto Tracy Kee. execu­participated in the Festival. sin). Drums: Sam Belton (Wiscon­affability and interest of the jud­DelGrande then outlined several coordinator. and Kristin
tive 
sin) and Jim Rupp (Ohio State). ges. ''They were all fine musicians, problems and reauirements of the
Plaques and cash awards were Quann, secretary. 
Trombone: Harrv Kozlowski (Wis-[continued on page 4] 
Besides these awards, plaques to write the rules for the confronta­
The One Earth Market Place Opened yesterday in the Rathskeller. [photo by Mark Muench] 
were presented to the too mnsi-tion. 
SA evaluates ND women's security 
Editor's Note: This Is the second of to improve Notre uame s secunty students and bring to their posi­report said. graduate or law school. 1ney a three part report oa Security system. tions a rare degree of personal Because the monitors go off duty would be trained and supervised. Audit Inc:.'s finding In their recent While women express some con­involvement," the report stated. at 5 a.m. the report recommended They would not be a part of the 
study of Notre Dame Security. cern over their security on campus, A careful look at security in that during the period from 5:15 Security Department. The princi­Today's utlde coven the security SA found that this has not altered ' women's halls was another mea­a.m. to 7 a.m. the security shift pal mission would be foot patrol--a of womaa oa campus. their life-style much. Very few sure that SA undertook. One commander and other nersonnel on visible and immediate prese~ women said they would not walk important aspect of hall security the shift be particularly alert to the and deterrent through the night
by Diane Wilson 
unaccompanied on campus after that SA found was the hall monitor, absence of monitors W,. women's hours." the report stated. News Editor dark, and most said they would whose function is to insure proper halls. While SA foresees objections to 
continue to do so up until midnight. admission to the hall and to be alert SA felt that stringent measures the program because it might While the report acknowledges for fire. such as limiting entrance to each resemble a vigilante group or a
Since the arrival of women on the 
that the Notre Dame campus is a Another function of monitors is to hall to one door, having that door cadet police group. it feels that
Notre Dame campus in 1972, the 
"night place," it states that women act as a resource person for women monitored and keeping the Detex these complaints distort the objec­responsibility of protecting the must assume some responsibility students. Monitors have practical system activa.ted at all times are tive. As it would be set up, themembers ofthe ND community has 
changed and increased, according for their own safety. life experience which the students not necessary at this time. . honor patrol would not have any To accomplish this, the report find helpful. However, if conditions warranted police powers or functions. Its
to the report of Security Audit Inc. 
recommends that "Women The report recommended that it, such measures could be imple­main purpose would be to act as 
(SA). During its complete evalu­
students at hall section meetings each of the women's hall monitors mented sometime in the future. deterrent to attacks on womenation of security on campus, SA 
and at other appropriate and one of the The resource to students.
focused primarily on the way the be furnished with 13 most available 
security of women on effective forums be periodically walkie-talkies available to ND protect the female student SA The report reiterated women's 
campus is 
reminded orally and in writing that Security. found was student manpower. complaints that the age of thebeing handled. 
they bear at least partial responsi­Because of the important role There are 1500 women and 6500 Security officers and their low­The "Report of the Committee to bility for their personal safety.'' monitors have in regard to women men on campus. SA recommended profile on campus is a deficiency.
Evaluate Co-education" released 
The report also recommended that security, SA recommended that the a program to utilize this manpower SA found that women would feellast April stated that among the hall rectresses would be the most women's hall monitors be more to help protect women on campus. safer if they could see some type of women questioned, 75 percent felt effective people to convey this fully integrated into the Security It was recommended by SA that a protective activity. The honorsafe on the ND campus. SA message. "We have been imp­Department. They should be student honor patrol be organized. patrol would provide this. 'fheconducted their survey, in Febr­ressed by the quality and dedi­trained in fire fighting equipment "This group would be comprised of patrol men would wear brightlyuary, finding that most women . 
cation of these women. Rectresses within the halls and briefed on physically capable men in their colored jackets with "Security"continued to feel safe. The women in women's halls care for their campus security matters, the . junior and senior years, or in [eoatblaed oa pap 6]still had many suggestions on h«?W 


WEATHER Theo dept. to hold conference 
*The Observer ad. dept. is looking for........ applicants to fill positions on the 1978-79 sa}e;J staff. Those hired will start in the fall. These are paid positions offering excellent work experience •  
*work on a commission basis • you need not be a business· major to apply  
schedule an interview: at the Observer office third floor LaFortune mon-fri till 5--~  

The Notre Dame theology de­
Reflections on Mircea Eliade.''Dr. 
partment will sponsor a national 
Charles Long of the University of
Sunny and windy today with highs in the mid 60s. Increased 
conference, "The Scholarly and 
North Carolina and Duke Univer­
cloudiness tonight. Lows in the low 40s. Mostly cloudy tomorrow. 
Literary Worlds of Mircea Eliade,'' 
sity will discuss "Patterns in the
High in the mid 60s. 
Wednesday through Friday. Col­
Work of Mircea Eliade" at 8 p.m.
leagues of the Romanian-born his­
in the Rare Book Room. 
torian of religions at the University 
Discussions on Thursday, April 13,
of Chicago Divinity School since 
will include "Mahamudra: The
On Campus Today_~ 
1957 will participate in the confer­
Nature of Symbolism in Tibetan 
ence. 
Buddhism" by R. Ray of Naropa
The University of Notre Dame 
Institute; "Mircea Eliade and Yoga 
11 am-one earth m01rket pl01ce, rathskeller, Iafortune 
Press recently published ''The 
Spirituality" by Frank Podgorski,
5 pm 
12:15 
pm 

12:15 
pm 


2 pm 
3:35pm 
4 pm 
4:30pm 5:15pm 6:30pm 7&10 pm 7 pm 7:30pm 
7:30pm 
6 pm 
6 pm 
6 pm 
8pm 
6:15pm 9:30pm 
*The Observer 
Night Editor: Rosemary Mills Asst. Night editor: Tom Beh­ney layout Staff: Sue Johnston, Anne Bever, John dondanville Features layout: Bryan Gru­ley Sports layout: Paul Stevenson Typists: Mark Rust, Tricia Meehan, Mary McCauley, Sue Scribner EMT: me [WLANOMM] Day Editor: Tim Joyce Copy Reader: Jerry "Disco" Perez Ad layout: Matt DeSalvo Photographer: Mark Muench 
The Observer Is publlalled Mon­dey tflrougll Frldey uc.pt during exem end vec:.tlon periods. Tile Observer Is publlslled by tfle students of Notre Derne end S.lnt Mery's College. Subscriptions mey be purc:treaed for no per yeer CS I 0 per semester) from The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Deme, lndlene usu. Second cleu postege peld, Notre Derne. tndtene, 4UU. 
The Obaerver Ia • member of the Auocleted l"re11. All repro. ductlon ere reserved. 
Forbidden Forest," the first Eng­
Seton Hall University; "Eiiade and 
seminar, "tumors induced by viruses and viruses 
lish translation of the novel Eliade 
Structuralism" by Hans Penner,
induced by tumors" by dr. raymond w. tenant,oak 
began in 1949 and completed five 
Dartmouth College, and Guilford
ridge nat'l. lab., sponsored by the dept. of microbio., 
years later. 
Dudley, San Diego State Univer­
278 galvin aud 
Talks will begin at 2 p.m. on 
sity; "Fate in the Forbidden For­
Wednesday with a discussion on 
est" by Mac L. Ricketts, Louisberg 
faculty forum, "experimental learning and business 
"Phenomenological Method and 
College; "Wrestling With Time:
education," by fr. don mcneill, spon. by business 
the Dialectic of the Sacred" by 
Eliade and Nabokov's Later Nov­
administartion., 121 hayes healey. 
Prof. Douglas Allen of the Univer­
els" by V. Nemoianu, University
sity of Maine. Prof. Jay Kim of the 
of California, Berkeley; and "Nar­
eliada conference lecture , "phenomenonological 
University of Tennessee will follow 
rative and Meaning: The Literary
method and the dialectic of the sacred," by prof. 
with "The Way of Meditative 
Universe of Mircea Eliade" b
douglas allen, u of maine, "the way of meditative Thinking: A Course by Mirceathinking,' ' by prof. jay kim, u of tenn., sponsored by Eliade.'' 
Observer Editorial Board theology dept., mem. lib. lng 
Speaking at 4 p.m. will be Profs. John A. Saliba, University ofseminar "dante's literal journey: the actuality of man's Tony Pace Editor-in-ChiefDetroit, and Thomas Munson. De­life & after life for the divine comedy" by prof thomas Steve Od~and Managing EditorPaul University. on the topic. "Thewerge, nd, spon., dept of chem eng, rm 265 chem eng John Calcut.t Executive Editor Future of Religious Man: Somebldg. 
Barb Langhenry Executive Editor Anthropological and Theolo~ical 
Rosemary Mills Editorial Editor eliada conference lecture, "the future of religious 
Phil Cackley Copy Editor man" by profs. john saliba , u of detroit, and thomas Jean Powley St. Mary's Editor munson, depaul u., responding, mem. lib. lng. 
Ann Gales News Editor Mike Lewis News Editor
Correction
colloqium, "the hadron jet set," by dr. alex r. dzierba , Diane Wilson News Editor 
ind u., spon. by phsyics dept.,116 niewland science. 
Ray O'Brien Sports Editor 
In yesterday's article about the Bryan Grulev Features Editorfaster's mass, fr. bob antonelli, c.s.c., sponsored by hunger coalition, walsh hall chapel 
delay of the NLRB hearing. Mike 
~~===============:=:=:=:=:==::=:::::~
Lawrence, assistant business re-
r 
presentative for Teamsters Localmeeting, sailing club, 204 engr. aud 364. was incorrectly quoted as saying. "We don't want the unionfilm,"camelot," spon by stud. union, admission $1, 
NAZZ
picking away at different jobs onengr. aud campus." Tom Bull. director of personnel at Notre Dame made this 
Tonite J . h N
presentation, "success and alcohol," by mr. hickey, statement. not Lawrence. 
: azz In t e azz
stapleton lounge 
Additionally. the statement. 
9 30
"This would make the passage ofamerican scene cultural series, "literature and social unionization on campus tougherresponsibility," by eric heller, northwestern univ.,car­
since employees in other jobs don't 
the 3 o'clock
roll hall smc. 
look favorably on the unionization effort," was made by severalpublic workshop "indiana national lakeshore," a persons connected wit.l! Teamstersgeneral management plan, sponored by the national Local 364 and should have beenpark service, galvin aud. 
Thurs~ 9-llpm
attnbuted to them. The Observer regrets these er­one earth lecture, "the cuban revolution .....a look in rors and any misunderstandingretrospect," by dr. rogelio de Ia torre, hayes-healy aud. 
Jeannie Ritter
which may have arisen as a result. 
eliada conference lecture, "patterns in the work of mircea eliada, " by prof charles long, u of n. carolina and duke univ., rare book room, lib. 
0 
films, "chaplin's "night at the show;" "dr. jeckyl and mr. hyde;" "dreams of wild horeses;" and other shrt 
SMC 21 CLUB 
films, sponsored by nd film society,&admission free, 232 moreau hall smc. 
Applications Now
presentation, hangover remedies, sponsored by 
MATH MAJORS 
Are you looking for a position that allows you to take advantage of your abilities? As a Navy Of­ficer you receive an excellent salary with plan­ned raises and advancement. 
312-657-2234 
COLLECT 

Attention· All Seniors 
............................. 
............................. Senior Formal Bid Sales Will End Fri. April 14 
Don't forget to get yours now! 
Accepted For: -79 ·Manager ·Assistant Manager ·Bartender/Checker 
~. 
Apply by Friday, April 14, 1978 at the Student Activities Office 

Matei C. Calinescu, Indiana Uni­
versity, and Michael Impey, Uni­
versity of Kentucky. 
A staged reading of Eliade's play on Brancusi performed by the ND speech and drama department under the direction of Miles Coiner is scheduled for 8 p.m. in the Washington Hall Theatert Prof. Florence Hetzler of Fordham Uni­versity will make introductory com­ments on "Eiiade and Brancusi: The Endless Column," and com­ments after the production will be made by Eliade. 
The program for Friday will include a 9:30 a.m. panel discus­sion, "Mircea Eliade: The Scholar­ly and Literary Perspectives,'' with Dr. Frederick J. Crosson and James Hart, Indiana University. Dr. Norman J. Girardot of Notre Dame is serving as conference chairman. 
Palkhivla speaks on freedom 
India has now gone beyond the freedom it enjoyed before Indira Ghandi's constitutional ''Emergen­cy Act'' two years ago, according to Nani Palkhivla, Indian Ambassador to the United States. Palkhivla spoke Monday night on "The Rebirth of Freedom in India" in the Hayes-Healy Auditorium as part of "One Earth Week". the foreign festival sponsored by Student Union. 
Palkhiva. who resigned from Ghandi's staff during the emergen­cy stated that the calling of it was the "ultimate act of contempt. a reign of terror. for the Indian people and Constitution." 
During the emergency, Palkhivla said that the government commit­ted a number of atrocities such as unauthorized arrests without placing any charges against the person being arrested. and suspen­sion of the right to assembly, speech and free press. 
Press censorship was so strict that every newspaper office in India had a government censor, he said. The use of the word "freedom" was forbidden. even in songs avd writings not related to politics. he continued. 
In every large city, such as Bombay, no more than five persv.s were permitted to assemble with­out police authorization. 
"They say they made the trains run on time," said Palkhivla, "but what was the damage to human spirit?" 
Fearful of unfavorable world opinion, the Indian government sought legitimacy by calling new elections. This was a mistake, according to the Ambassador. 
"She (Ghandi) was surrounded by people who told her what she wanted to hear. They said she would win the election", he stated. 
Incredibly, Palkhivali claimed, Ghandi's Emergency Act would probably have been approved in the Indian Supreme Court. reject­ing the claim that it was unconstitu­tional. 
The election. which Ghandi lost by a wide margin. showed that "the people knew the true meaning of Democracy." and that "a poor nation can be as co;umitted to freedom as the richest nation under the sun." 
Palkhivali believes that the only way to prevent anything like the Emergency Act from happening 
Newspaper correspondent to discuss ''The //legals '' 
Author and newspaper corres­Sister." "Bessie Yellowhair." pondent Grace Halsell wiii discuss "Los Viejos" and a new book. "The Illegals." a study of "The Illegals." to be published Hispanics in America. today at 7 this year. A former White House 
p.m. in the Law School Lounge. staff writer. hired personally by The program is sponsored by the President Lyndon B. Johnson, she Mexican-American Graduate ha~ traveled and lived in Europe, Studies Program and is open to the As1a and South America while public without charge. writing for the New York Herald­
Halsell is the author of "Soul Tribune and 12 southwestern 
newspapers. 
Carter launches campaign in effort to slow inflation! 
WASHINGTON [AP) -Presi­dent Jimmy Carter. in a new effort to slow inflation. asked business and labor for voluntary cooperation yesterday and promised not to use wage and price controls except in "a national emergency like all-out war." 
The president. launching a new anti-inflation offensive. also chided Congress for not enacting his long-stalled energy program and threatened administrative action to restrict foreign oit imports. 
The inflation rate last year was 
6.8 percent. Prices rose at an annual rate of 8.4 percent during the first two months of 1978. The administration had originally pre­dicted prices would rise 6.1 percent this year. But some government economists say the increase could be closer to 7 percent. 
In ruling out wage and price controls. Carter siad he will not try to stem inflation by proposing actions that would increase unem­ployment. 
"I can't imagine any circum­stances under which I would favor wage and price controls than a national emergency like all-out war·,'' he told a news conference following a speech to the American Society of Newspaper Editors. 
Carter said he would set an example by seeking to limit federal pay increases to about 5.5 percent tnis year and by vetoing legislation that would fuel inflation. 
Congress would have the fmal say on salaries for most federal employees. although Carter could limit pay raises for White House employees by merely issuing an executive order. 
Carter gave his White House staff a pay increase of up to 25 percent in March 1977 and another of 7.05 percent in November. 
The president said it is a myth that the government itself can stop inflation. 
"Let me be blunt about this point." Carter said. "I am asking American workers to follow the example of federal workers and 
"#',-. .•:-~-..; ........... ........~.-.tt·. ·......':~:·-:" .-'.. )"• ·. 
accept a lower rate of ~age increase. In return they hate a right to expect a comparable re7 again is to educate the Indian people. "Without the people as keepers of the Constitution," he said, "democracy will fail." 
This is a difficult task. Palkhivla said. "India would be transformed overnight if all the educated Indians living at home and abroad .. would give just one year of their lives. even only at months at a time. to the people of India," he said. 
• • Even now.'' he continued. "there is a large numper of Indians in Parliament who have never even read the constitution. and ·~on't know what they vote for." 
As for Ghandi. Palkhivla ex­plained that, to show the newly regained freedoms after the emer­gency. the government did not ask for bail when she went to court. 
Ghandi's "crafty attorney", how­ever. claimed that Ghandi had done nothing against the law and demanded proof of her guilt. The government representativ.: normal­ly only a local attorney. wasn't prepared for this and as a result. the case was dropped and Ghandi went free. the Ambassador con­cluded: 
,---------------------------~ 
Dr. Yu-Ming Shaw spoke last night in the architecture auditorium. His lecture, "United States and the Tangle of the Two Chinas," was part of One Earth Week. Tomorrow's talk, "The Cuban Revolution ... a look in Retrospect" is scheduled for ~p.m. in Hayes-Healy auditorium. [photo by Mark Muench] 
We offer the finest in men's hair cutting 
' The Knights 
' 
Only 5 minutes from campus 277-1691 
Tues. & Wed. 8:30;6:30 272-0312 
Thurs. & Fri. 8:30-8:30 54533 Terrace Lane 
Sat. 8 -5:30 
, ,
Important meet1ng 
* 
all observer reporters 
wednesday night 
7pm
* obse.-ver 

~ai~in~~~~~~btz~~~~==========~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
goods ~nd services they buy.'' r 
At me news conference. Car r also said: I -He has not decided whethe~ to seek re-election in 1980. / 
-He expects his image. a$ re­
flected by public opinion polls. to 
improve with the achievement of 
more success in resolving/ such 
difficult issues as energy and 
inflation. In the last As~ciated 
Press-NBC News poll qnly 33 
percent rated Carter's perf?rmance 
excellent or good while ~64· percent 
gave him only fair or p marks. 
Three percent were unsu . 
·"Good and steady" pfogress is being made toward a neYi Strategic Arms Limitation Treaty/ with the Soviet Union. / 
-He will veto tuitionf tax credit legislation that he consjders either too costly or unconstitutional. "I think the whole concfpt is falla­cious and I don't like it." Carter added. Meanwhile. I the House Ways and Means Cbmmittee ap­proved a bill providi~g inco~ tax credits to help pay the cost of college tuition. 
-~e is in no '-'big hurry" to ach1eve full diplomatic relations with China. but ev~ntually hopes to have such relations with the Com­munist nation. :' 
-Attorney General Griffin Bell made the right decision in electing' to prosecute three former top FBI officials who allegedly issued or­ders for unlawful b~rlaries bylower-echelon agents. IA federal grand jury on Mond~ indicted former FBI Director L. Pitrick Gray and his two top aids. • 
1 
In :his speech on th~ economy, 
Carter said he expects iiJdustry and 
labor to keep price, iwage and 
salary increases "significantly be­
low the average rate for ~e last two 
years." He had stated a similar 
view in his January' economic 
message. ' 
~ .. ...,.....:¥~--~· .. :,j.~',J':r·.. ·_ · • .-_·.:_ ~.:~.:~·,J·....·,.;.~~~,_,.~--" 
I 
· You've heard Karla Bonoff's songs before. ''Lose Again:· r----------------. Someone to Lay Down Beside Me:· and "If He's Ever Near" h1ghhghted Linda Ronstadt's last album. "Hasten Down the Wmd:· "Home·· closes Bonnie Raitt's newest album. 
These four songs. along with six previously unre­corded compos1t1ons. appear on her first Columbia album. "Karla Bonoff' 
Crawdaddy raved. "Her songs have the timeless feel of classics:· y.'hile Playboy called theni "sensitive. moving and eleganf' 
Everyone agre~s that Karla writes wonderful songs. Her vo1ce IS the mstrument her songs were written for. 
"Karla Bonoff."On Columbia Records and Tapes. 
Proou4ed by Kenny E.dwards .. •-COlUMBIA 'ltMARCASREG c 1917CBSINC 
1 
' Available at Just for the Record ' 

---~-~---------------..;_____________________,j 

Mud Volleyball 
One of the traditions of Notre Dame's An Tostal Weekend is the 
Mud Volleyball finals. The finals, ~hich ~~ur _on . "Su~ny 
Saturday," are the culmination of the smgle-ehnunation tn whtch 
six-player teams compete. 
This year, there will be a maximu~ of 128 tea~s ~Howe~ to compete in the tournament. There wtll also be a hmtt of ~tght players, in any combination of men and women players, to be hsted on each team's roster. The semi-final and final rounds of the tournament will be played in the mud. 
Teams wishing to register for the Mud Volleyball Tournament should have one of their members contact Ted Howard at 3211 or 3209 between today and Sunday. 
Trivia Bowl 
"Who was Notre Dame's third president?" If you can answer this question without running to a history book, you may be interested in participating in this year's An!?Stal T~via Bowl. 
The Trivia Bowl will present hall compettttons thts year. ~ch hall will have one team of four players and two alternates. To s~gn up for the Trivia Bowl, contact your hall's An Tostal representattve by Friday. 
Mr. Campus Contest 
This year's Mr. Campus Contest promises to be the biggest and best pageant this side of Atlantic City. The contestants, one from each men's dorm and one off-campus representative, will participate in the swimsuit evening wear and talent competitions. 
Monday is the deadline for entering the Mr. Campus Conte.st. For more information, contact your hall's An Tostal representattve, or call the An Tostal office at 6413. 
At Saint Mary's 
Public input sought 
An informal public workshop will be held today at 7:30 in Room 278 of Galvin Life Science Center to allow for public input into the preparation of a General Manage­
ment Plan (GMP) for Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore. The Lakeshore is located between Gary and Michigan City and is less than an hour's drive for South Bend residents. 
The purpose of the upcoming meeting is two-fold: first, to give 
information to the public on what is presently available at Indiana Dunes for their outdoor recreation enjoyment; and second, to get information from them on how they would like to see the Lakeshore entire Lakeshore and will contain selected strategies for resource management, preservation, use de­velopment, access and circulation, aquisition, interpretation and oper­ations. 
Course time error 
Students pre-registering for courses next year should note that Theology 453, BlblicaJ IJterature, will be offered at 10TT12 and not 10 MWF, as printed in the Course Schedule Booklet.
L d t 
aun ry 0
redeem coupons 
The Laundry will redeem laundry coupons April 24-28 from 9-11 a.m. and 1-3 p.m. Students should use Door #2. 
SU sponsors 
logo contest 
Notre Dame Student Union is sponsoring a logo contest. A new logo is selected each year and is used on all Student Union posters and advertisements. A prize of 525 will be awarded to the designer of the selected logo. all entries must be submitted to the Student Union offices by 5:00 p.m. on April 28th. 
Pick up movie applications 
Any Notre Dame student-oriented club or organiza­
tion wishing to sponsor a movie next semester must pick up an application in the Student Union Office. Applications must be re­turned to the SU Movie Commis­sion by next Wednesday. 
:::~ed and used in the years to ¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥ 
Na~i~~~~e:!rk ~:~i:~rt~c~~~p~~:C a~ ST MARY's !
GMP by October of 1979. The plan ~ -,... 
is a management guide for the ~ 
CJF announces ~ 
resuJtsJ ~ 
[continued from page 1) ~ but they were more than musi-~ cians." Thomas commented. -,... 
•'They did not drink. They were ~ serious about their judging, and ~ they wished they could have spent ~ 
more time with the musicians." 
1e 
"That's what the festival is all ~ about." Thomas added. "It's for ~ the musicians." ~ 
~ 
~ 
Class, Hall and Student Assern.ly Eledions ~ 
. nominations: Aprill2 to Aprll17 1C platforms (3 copies) due: Aprll17, midnight, to: ~ Noreen Bracken -,... 12,. o 1 N rth ~ .. "eg na 0 ~ campaigning: April18 to Aprll23, midnight ~ primary: April24, 10 am to 6 pm, LeMans Lobby ~ election: April26, 10 am to 6 pm, leMans Lobby ~ 
questions?: Cari, 5231 or Noreen, 5480 -,... 
~ 
Liberal Arts education growing :--THE-NEW-SPECIALS-1 
by Jean Powley Saint Mary's Editor 
•'The highest ideal of the liberal education is discriminating be­tween good and bad," Saint Mary's President John M. Duggan was quoted as saying in the Feb. 6 issue of Newsweek. 
"The trick is to develop the fundamental powers to under­stand, to distinguish a good idea from a bad idea, a good Congres­sional bill from a bad one, a good piece of writing from a bad piece-to read critically, think critically and write cogently. •• 
While many other liberal arts colleges have succumbed to pres-sores for preprofessional training by either gQing out of business altogether or by drastically trim­ming their foreign language, his­tory. art. English and classics requirements, Saint Mary's en­rollment has been growing, ac­cording to Duggan. 
"Liberal arts colleges have had problems because their people, for the most part. have been almost inarticulate in transmitting the value of a liberal arts education to the public." Duggan explained. • • Also. in times of economic stress people tend to see more vocation­ally oriented programs as more immediately related to jobs." 
Potential employers have been very impressed by Saint Mary's students and their arguments for the liberal arts. however, according to Duggan. And graduate schools have also recognized the solid education Saint Mary's gives to its students. Duggan said. 
··We'd be burying our heads in .lu.: sand if we thought our students didn't have to get jobs after they graduated from here. That's why the Career Development Center is absolutely critical." he explained. 
Saint Mary's is built on the idea of a fundamental pervasive educa­tion, teaching values and life goals, as well as specialized subjects. "We believe that there is a definite relationship between a specialized education and our fundamental core curriculum. Therefore, the faculty must be sure that funda­mental questions about goals and connections between disciplines be made explicit in their classes," Duggan stated. 
Although the college's business department has increased in size greatly during the past few years, Duggan does not see this increase as antithetical to Saint Mary's had an outstanding science depart­ment here. It is not what is being taught so much as how it is taught. Both our business and . science departments are grounded m a firm liberal arts foundation," he con­tinued. 
One problem Duggan recognized is the students' attitude toward the core requirements as courses "to get out of the way." The ideal. according to Duggan, would be to spread the core curriculum out throughout all four years. There­fore. he admitted to seeing some merit in many students' r~quests t.o begin their majors durmg thetr freshman year. . 
The pendulum whtch sw~ng away from the liberal a~s ~urmg the early 70s is now begmmng. to swing the other way, Duggan satd, 
Weds.,Apr. 12 
as many c?lleges whtc? dtsposed of 1 all of thet~ c~re req~treme_nts are 1 ~ow redestgmn~ thetr ~umculums 1 m order to ~tve thetr students 1 common expert~nces. . I 
These r~d~s1gned cumculums I bear a st~kmg res~mblance . to I Saint Mary score cu~1culum wh1ch 1 has successfu!ly survtved a. decade 1 of preprofessional emphasis, only to. grow and prosper. Duggan pomted ~ut. 
And w1th good reaso~ ~ecaus.e as ~ewsweek made clear m tts artt~le. hb~ral arts colleges ~evelop sktlls ~htch ar~ useful 1~ any age, 
U~Iess htgher education demands t~etr development. future genera­tlons of college students may be doomed to learn mo;,e and m.ore about less and less, the arttcle stated. 

-----------------------------~ 
N.D Senior Bar 
kii'••·•Dieting? Taking Vitamins?

The Morning After 
8pm-10pm 
reduced rates on hotdogs & c~ke 
Noon-Mass Thurs., Apr.13 at La Fortune Fr. Griffen Spm Women and Alcohol SMC Clubhouse and Spm Photo Exhibit La Fooun 
Friday Hot Dog Happy Hour 3-6 Library Bar 
8 and 10pm 
Saturday 
'The Morning After ' 
SMC 21 Club 
liber~~~·~~~~~~:~~i,III.,III..JCI,~IC.~O.IC;_,tt,,C!.:tc;ttc:;~!a00D4a:H:IM:MNIIM:M:I~IO··-~~~~~~ 
¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥-¥¥¥-¥¥¥¥-¥-¥¥ 
presented by the 
a a LIBRARY a a 
DraftW (d )
en aze 14 oz Special 
so~ Largest Draft in Town 7-midnite ~ 
I
Thursday: 7 & 7 Special I I 
I 
7-+10 I I I 
~ Concerned About Nutrition? 
A daily nutrition secret of noted Olympic athletes is available to you Bee Pollen from EnglandTM 
Olympic Gold Medal Sprinter Steve Riddick: "They're fantastic! My recovery power after a hard sprint has im­proved at least 75%. I've made Bee Pollen from England a permanent part of my training 
For years. many noted Olympic athletes, who have to stay at the peak of fitness and good health, have made bee pollen a part of their dally train1ng secret Why? Because bee pollen is one of 
nature's most concentrated sources of a whole range of micro-nutnents which more and more doctors believe your body needs every day. Now a British nutritionist has found a way to keep bee pollen fresh in tiny goi­den pods called Bee Pollen From England"' So now you. too. can use this natural food and make it a part of your daily nutrition routine. 
• 
Available atthe health center of 
MAR-MAIN 426 N. Mlchiaan & Georgetowns Center 

Jackson Browne is an American super­star in the seventies. A superstar? What is a superstar? Well, a superstar is anyone who is deemed as such by the critics and writers on the American pop culture scene. 
The Superstar is a dynamic personality. The Superstar is a brilliant artist, a person of profound insight. The Superstar is a cosmic image in an Annie Leibovitz photograph. The Superstar sells one hell of a lot of whatever he is marketing-­albums, films, etc. Jackson Browne sells a lot of albums. Critics laud him, placing him in a category with other rock superstars of the seventies, Bruce Spring­steen, Rod Stewart, and Neil Young. People jam stadiums to listen to his music. Jackson Browne becomes an American Superstar in the seventies. 
But what has all this got to do with Jackson Browne's concert performance in Notre Dame's A.C.C. last Monday night? 
On Monday night, Browne wastes little time getting into his music. The lights are dimmed and he leads his band on stage with a smile, snatching his acoustic, chuckling David Lindley, and quickly breaking into a rather uninspired version of "Take It Easy." The band plays cautiously, with little spirit to begin, waiting no doubt for the PA system and the mixers to be correctly adjusted to the acoustics of the A.C.C. They continue in this way through "The Fuse," Craig Doerge's piano barely audible, the drums a bit loud, Browne's vocals still unsure, subdued. With the third song. "Fountain of Sorrow," the band is finally in tune, and things begin to rock. Doerge, clad in a green-and-white Senior Bar shirt, excites the crowd with the first of his deftly executed acoustic piano breaks. And Browne swings about the stage with guitar, his voice now finding the range it needs, triumphantly singing the final notes of the tune " ... so clear and so bright ... " 
Browne is a very young-looking man for 29 years, and a very plain-looking man. His face is pale in the stagelight, well-defined; the bare shadow of a mus­tache shows on his upper lip. The lips are unusually red, shiny, like a boy's, out­standing against the milky pallor of his face. His hair hangs straight against the sides of his head, greasy-looking, allowing his ears to show through white and obstrusive. When the bangs flop down over his eyes, as they often do, they lie flat against his cheek, revealing a straight, horizontal cut-line that suggests he's been getting haircuts with a bowl and a straight razor. 
After "Here Come Those Tears Again," Browne introduces his next song with a plug for some "local groups in Southern California trying to stop the building of plants for nuclear warfare." Appropri­ately, he then plays "Before the Deluge." The harmonies provided by Rosemary Butler and Doug Haywood are crisp and vigorous, while David Lindley's fiddle weaves a pretty background improvisation. 
Lights surround the band--yellow, red, blue, green, white, alternating shades and intensities. changing with the rhythm of the music.. They are there to somehow aesthetically complement the music, to hypnotize the concertgoers into fixing their gazes on the affected image before them, and step into the image themselves. try it on in their minds. From my seat, I see the braces and structures holding these lights up, · these metal crutches hidden in the darkness, sucked away into the vacuum surrounding the life onstage. Browne is now in the middle of "Bright Baby Blues," one of his most gripping ballads, and as Browne croons the chorus, eyes shut tightly, the crowd intent on him, I notice two roadies way off backstage playing ping-pong. It is light where they are, and they play their game with energy. Tic-toe--tic-toe--a smash! Point. Browne croons, the crowd stares--tic-toe-­
the song's The has come together now--the sound is tight and clear, and the counter-rhythms employed in "Walking Slow" come off well. Browne keys on the crowd's increased ene~ and leaps right into his big-daddy first hit, "Doctor My Eyes," which flows into another old favorite, "These Days." "Doctor My Eyes," gets the expected response--oohs, yeahs, squeals, aahs, rockandrolls--and in the front rows the people are on their feet like cheerleaders, thrusting their arms out stiffly ("S-U-C-C­E-S-S! That is how we spell SUCCESS!) and bouncing to and fro on their hips. Everyone's riveted now, all eyes on Browne at the piano, and it's time to secure the crowd for the remainder of the night...And so the soft, mesmerizing ballads begin...and the lights dim. 
Just Lindley and Browne now, Jackson joking about basketball. "Craig (Doerge) is a big fan of your basketball team... That's the one with the ball you dribble around, right?" Scattered laughter. And then the two old friends, together profes­sionally since Browne's very first album, join in a rendition of Reverend Gary Davis' "Cocaine." Browne picks the ac:oustic cleanly, smiling, leaning towards l.indley bent to the fiddle. Lindley quiet all tho.. concert, barely ever lifting his head, his long, wavy brown hair dangling to his chest, his eyes to the bow ... now tuming to Browne and cradling the fiddle like a guitar, plucking and strumming, much to the pleasure of the crowd...Lindley is so important to Browne, so necessary to his sound with his skill at lap steel, pedal steel, and fiddle. And yet it is Browne the superstar, Browne the rock prophet, Browne the man on the front of the album..."How 'bout David Lindley!" Browne shouts, gesturing towards his friend. The crowd cheers at the cue. Jackson told them to. Lindley bows modestly. 
And now it's just Jackson, alone at the 
piano. Through my binoculars I can see his 
eyes. They are aloof, blind-like, staring 
out past the lights and the crutches, into 
the blackness, over the faces, somewhere-· 
then back to the piano keys, intent, 
shutting for a high note. They are slightly 
pinched, recessed, like those of a small boy 
who has just emerged from a pool... 
His stage presence is difficult to . describe. There is no flash, no leaps, no 
dancing, no hot moves with the mike wire, 
no climbing of the amps. But there is a 
nervous energy that seems to well up 
through his upper body into his shoulders, 
through his arms, down to the tips of his 
fmgers. He doesn't know what to do with 
himself. He jerks his torso about, throws 
his head back abruptly, lunges into the 
piano, slaps his thighs in rhythm, can't 
figure out what the hell to do... 
He plays "Rosie," and laughs, shakes 
his head ·at the antics of backup singers 
Haywood and Lindley. He -taunts the 
crowd, now at his excited 
rejoins him for a beautiful rendering of a . beautiful song. And Browne smiles as he picks up his guitar, the band back on stage 
and ready ... 
They rock through "Running On 
Empty," everything coming together per­
fectly, the backup voices rich, and drum­
mer Jim Gordon driving. Browne returns 
to the piano. ''You seem like a bunch of 
really calm people," he says. "I know 
you'll go far in life." And then he says, ·'I 
didn't mean anything by that--you're just 
the right kinda calm." "The Load 
Out/Stay" follows, Browne's latest h,r, 
and the crowd goes batty-eyed and 
adoring, shrieking at Lindley's high­
pitched vocal stint in "Stay." 
And then they're all disappeared into the 
darkness, Browne included. While the 
lights ~main on, shedding an eerie red, 
hypnotic aura over the stage ... 
The first encore, "The Pretender," 
becomes a spiritual. Rosemary Butler's 
voice wails over the pleading chorus--"Say 
a prayer"--while Browne and band clap 
along. And the audience,_ dancing, 
singing, is reaching high into the air, 
clapping, grasping ... 
Grasping for illusion. 
"The Pretender" at Notre Dame, these 
Domers all singing Browne's sad vision of 
youth in Amenca. It reminds me of 
drinking inThe Parrot, Fort Lauderdale '77, 
while a whole wasted throng of NDers 
screamed out Fleetwood Mac's "Go Your 
Own Way." In unison of course. I laughed 
then and I laugh now. 
Encore two: WHAT IS ALL THIS ILLUSION? THIS CONFUSION? Jackson Browne the Superstar. Jackson Browne the Visionary. No no, just a musician, a man--but now the madness has finally got me, and I'm on that stage trying on images in my mind. It's "The Road and The Sky," and behind the band, curtains fly open majestically, revealing a huge image of the 
m.ll meeting the sky. I'm trapped in the exhilaration--the giddy feeling rises in my throat. Is it because I've been on that road, thumb out and cruising anywhere, that I feel this sudden emotion? Or is it because I'm grasping at illusion? Are those words calling me--"...throw me over the edge and baby let my spirit fly!" Or is it simply that I'm caught in a fantasy maelstrom of lights, volume, driving rhythms, and the hype of pop critics? No matter. Let's go home. 
The lights go up and the cheeiing dies as quickly as the brightness spreads across the main floor. These people are exhausted. "Amazing," they whisper, "Excellent." And they are correct. Jackson Browne was very good. But somehow, looking around at the lines moving towards the exits, at the grey-and­black skeleton hovering around the stage, and at the anxious, young, t-shirted men hustling the equipment out of the A.C. C., I get the feeling that Jackson Browne had never been here at all. 

.. ~­
~: 
~·~· -_.... 
"~· 
'4~. 
Wednesday, April12, 1978
· the observer 
,SA recommends security changes 
[continued from page 1] 
written prominently on the front and back. Their hours would be from 9 p.m. to 1 a.m. Sunday through Thursday and 9 p.m. to 2 
a.m. on Friday and Saturdays. In other recommendations con­cerning protection for women, SA suggested that the shuttle bus between Notre Dame and Saint Mary's be continued. Another recommendation was that the physical Education Department in­
troduce into its curriculum instruc­tion in self-defense. 
Campus accessibility was another aspect of women's security that was examined by SA. They found that while it is difficult to drive on campus. anyone can walk on. The report did not feel that it woul~ be practical to fence the campus m. SA did see some merit in allowing some women students to be driven to their halls after a date. 
They suggested a drive-on pilot 
~~~ 
MOLARITY 
Mike Molinelli 
program to be initiated for thirty days. The woman's escort would surrender his ID or driver'~ lie­sence at the gate, to be retrieved within fifteen minutes. If such traffic became too heavy, danger­ously crowding the roads and on-campus parking areas, the program could be discontinued. 
Security Audit Inc. found some places on campus where definite lighting changes need,ed to .be made to improve women s secunty.
The locations where lighting needed to be changed included Lake Drive from Dorr Ro~d. to A:1S 
parking lot. the Adm1mstrat10n Building-east side of Sacred Heart Church area. the East side of O'Shaunessy Hall. and the area between Grace and Flanner Halls and the Memorial Library also, the North side of Rockne Memorial and the west side of Lyons HaU., the Washington Hall-LaFortune Student Center area_. the east-w_est walkway to the Library leadmg from old Juniper Road, the south end of the Library. the northeast side of the infirmary. Nieuwland Science Haii-Fieldhouse area. and the area between Dillon and Alumni Halls. 
To make sure that. burne_d out bulbs are replaced 1mmed1at~ly, SA recommended that the Mamt­
enance Department have no more than a two-day deadline for the replacement of bulbs. . 
The final concern that _SA mve_st­igated was fire protectiOn, wh1ch pertains to both men and women. SA recommended that a fire alarm system be installed in halls that are presently using the old class bells for fire alarms. 
TODAY TODAY TODAY: : Crafts from all over the world sold in the basement of La Fortune from noon to 5pm. ONE EARTH WEEK 
e Special 10% Discount e
0. .
Lecture 8:pm Dr. Rogelio de Ia Tovre 
• On All Merchandise To Notre Dame • , The Cuban Revolution: a look in retrospect 
• & Saint Mary's Students. •
Hayes-Healy Auditorium 
not to lock their rooms so that
In Badin and Walsh halls. exterior access might be gained to the fire fire escapes could be the only form escapes. SA also recommended of escape in a fire. SA found that that. beginning in the school year these fire escapes have not been 1978-79 these rooms remain unoc­tested recently and therefore reco-cupied 'or the fire escapes be mmended that the exterior fire relocated. escapes be properly tested and that Fire drills should be held at least this action be taken promptly. twice a year, at the direction of the 
In Badin Hall. the fourth floor fire Fire Inspector. One of the drills escapes can only be reached should be held without prior notice through resident rooms. Therefore to the hall occupants so that the SA recommended that ~he occu-responsiveness of participants pants of these rooms be mstructed might be determined. 
• • • • • • • • . • •••••••••••••• • ~~..,.~..~ • 
• • 
THE STROH BREWERY COMPANY, DETROIT, MICHIGAN @) 1978 
I 
' 
I
"Do you f~el a cold draft?" 
,I I, 
I r 
I 
I 
\ 
\ 
.s"~ 
!I 
For the r~al beer lover. 
··, 

--~--------~--------------------------~----------~------------------~----~--~ 
Uhe 
lVit~jammer 
CREATIVE HAIR DESIGN FOR THE SEXES 
RElAXING 
Assistant Treasurer­
ATMOSPHERE 
Student Government 
FREE HAIR ANALWIS RK RETAn. CENTER 
-must be presently a sophomoreand going into Accounting 
1637 LWW
.J~, 
So. ~end 
232-6622 
-pickup applications in the Appt. enly.
~ 
'":\ .. ·.... 
Treasurer's Office 2nd Floor LaFortune -applications must be in by Friday, April 14th ..
CLASSIFIED ADS··························· 

Fr. james T. Burtchaell 
Wednesday, April12, 1978 
Burtchaelllectures at Grace 
Fr. James T. Burtchaell ex­pressed his preference for a liberal education to a small crowd last night in the Grace Hall Pit. 
"The most significant thing a­bout a Notre Dame student is his mind," said Burtchaell. "He has the ability to think and exchange thinking with people." According to Burtchaell, a liberal education on the undergraduate level offers the opportunity to develop skills of thinking and articulation. 
several reasons why students choose a professional course of studies rather than a liberal one. "Some students feel they owe it to their parents to study something that makes sense, something that is immediately applicable," he said. "Others have chosen a career goal and want the university to give them professional training to ac­complish this." 
"My advice to freshmen and SOJ>nO•motres in choosing a major is he commented. "They should choose that subject which gives them the most pleasure in studying it." 
Burtchaell disagreed with the fact that most people come to college to prepare them for a job. "My contention is that the only reason to study accountancy is because one is fascinated with the intellectuals of the subject," he stated. "One shouldn't waste four very advantageous years." 
Burtchaell illustrated his point by giving a very simple example. "Imagine that you are going to die the day of graduation. If you knew in advance, and it interests you to stay in college, what would you then study?" 
Burtchaell contends that you don't "do anything" with a certain subject. "What you do is enjoy them," he stressed. "If you do, you come out much more ready to have a practical caree~, although I 
can't guarentee great interviews at the Placement Bureau," he added. "Students should believe in them­selves enough to enjoy their under­graduate years." 

./, '. 
. ·, :1' 
the observer 
7 
Ohio State anthropologist to lecture 
Dr. John. C. Messenger. an anthr­opologist from Ohio State Univer­sity, will present a lecture entitled "Sectarian Conflict in Northern Ireland: Copper-Bronze Age to 1978." The talk will be given tomorrow at 3:30 p.m. in the Audio-Visual Auditorium of the Center for Continuing Education. It will shed light on the roots of the present conflict in Northern Ireland. 
FOR RENT 
Fine house in a good neighborhood (Portage and Angela area). Reasonable rents. For 4-5-6 students. Contact Joseph Gatto, 234-6688. 
Two rooms for rent. summer school. $40 per month. 233-1329. 
Two completely furnished houses this summer -A couple of blocks from campus. Safe neighborhood. One four bedroom, one six bedroom, approx. $100 a month. 277-3604. 
Walk to campus. Home close to Logan Center for rent this fall. Enough bedrooms for 5or 6. Water is included in rent. Nice. Call 232-3815 after 5 pm. 
FREE RENT: plus salary, in exchange for housekeeping work 4 days per week to young married couple without children. Furnished 4 rooms apartment. Call 289-1264 or 289-3629. · 
FURNISHED APT. ALL PRIVATE, 3 rooms up for married Grad student. All utilities, near memorial hospital. No Rant for helping 2people In wheelchairs. 
232-9128. 
WANTED 
Help wanted -temp., part time. Select your own hours. Great pay anfd short hours in public contact work explaining HVD programs to home owners. Call 234-3344 or 233-6939. Leave message for Dick. 
OVERSEAS JOBS: Summer and year­round. Europe, S. America, Australia, Asia, etc. All fields, $500-1200 monthly expenses paid. Sightseeing. Free information-Write: BHP Co., Box 4490, Dept. 14, Berkely , CA, 94704. 
Need ride to Chicago area -western suberb-This thursday 4-13 after four pm. Call Denise 4-1-4833. 
Need ride to Milwaukee for this weekend. Call Bill, 8992. 
A good home for 2 puppies! Call 272-2520 after 3 pm. 
Need ride to Nashville, TN, or Louisville vicinity this weekend (4-14). Call 6500. 
Mother works nights live in babysitter needed. Will apy small wage. More for home than for wages. Phone 291-G531 
5:00. 
Dissertations, manuscripts, typed ....etc. IBM Selectric II. Linda's Letters. 
287-4971. 
Baggage truck to Long Island-NYC area. 
Send $5 deposit to Kevin MescalI, 319 Alumni. Questions, call Kevin at 283-1181 or Ed Fitzpatrick at 283-7443. 
MAY GRADS Friday, April 14, is the last day to pay your loan at the Morissay Loan. Any loan not paid will be turned over to student accounts. Penalty will be charged. 
NO EXCEPTIONS 
CONATCT LENS WEARERS: Save on brand name hard and soft lens supplies. Send for free illustrated catalog. Contact Lens Supplies, Box 7453, Phoenix, AR, 85011. 
FLANNER RECORDS INVENTORY CLEARANCE SALE: All $7.98 lp's in stock only $4.39. All double lp's specially priced. Flanner Records, 322 Flanner. Ph. 2741. Hours: M-Th, 4-5. 6:3D-8:00. 
NEED QUALITY TYPING?? Executary Inc., Professional Typing Service, IBM Correcting Selectrics. 85 cents per page, minimum. Call 232-0898 "When you want the best."
. 
NOTICES 
Need ride for one lovely girl from Pittsburgh and back for An Tostal weekend. She can drive, she can pay, and she is good company! Call 6734. 
2-4 mo. old puppies need good home. FREE! Call 272-2520 after 3 pm. 
TYPING DONE REASONABLE RATES CALL8086 
. FOR SALE 
Stereo equipment major brands discounts on fully guanteed factory sealed audio-vi­
deo  equip.  Elliot  entrerprises,  Park  
Court, Buchanon,  Mich.  49107.  Call  
Niles toll free, 683-0121.  

1973 Capri, V-6, 4speed AM-FM 8track, C-B, hitch, Large wheels, great shape, 1700. 7232. 
1974 fiat 128, blue, AM-FM rust proofed, just turned, fun to drive. 277-Q003. 
FOR SALE: Universal Zig-Zag sewing machine. Does stretch sticth snd other fancy stiches. Great condition! Make an offer. Call 6734. 
FULL COLOR COTION BOWLAND USC FOOTBALL: UCLA, KENTUCKY AND MARYLAND BASKETBALL PICTURES. SPORTS ILLUSTRATED MATERIAL AT A LOW PRICE. CALL DOUG AT 8982 OR STOP BY 318 ZAHM. 
Used golf balls like new, $200 per 100and other prices. Call 272-0783. 
'70 Olds Cutlass, Good shape, A-C, 350 HP. $900. 272-5513. 
1973 Vega-55,000 miles, rusat on body­mechanicaly inspected. 234-5686. 
1973 LTD 10 passenger wagon. Automa­tic transmission, power steering, power brakes, radio, tinted glass and luggage rack. Slight body damage. 234-5686. 
For sale-Tennis raquet Dunlap, Maxply Fort, one year old, good condition. 283-1854 ask for Jughead. 
LOST AND FOUND 
LOST: Cross pen-pencil set before break. · I'll replace it , it has great sentimental value. 289-8643, John Murphy. 
FOU~D: A set of keys in front of Grace Hall. Saturday night. Call Sean at 8876 or 8872 to identify. 
LOST: Help Marilyn save her mind -If you find a set of keys near Grace call 4-1-4775. 
LOST: Pearl ring in a gold setting in the Rock last Sat. evening. Call Tricia 7850. 
FOUND: Pocketwatch 4-3-78 on South Quad! To identify call Tim (1161). 
LOST: Gold pocketwatch Dillon-Rock area. Tremendous sentimental value. Mike, 287-5568. Reward . 
LOST: Blue NO jacket at Nickles. Reward. Name in jacket. 
FOUND: A pair of wire-rimmed glasses In brown leather case. Call Bob at 1694. 
LOST: Navy blue "totes" umbrella at Sr. Bar on Women's night. I have someone elses black umbrella. Please call it you have mine. Alicia, 8117. 
FOUND: a key with keys to Grace Hall. Probably lost durig blizzard. Owner wi II have to identify key ring. Call Bart 1078. 
FOUND: set of two keys found before break. Call Observer office to identify. 
LOST: One Texas Instruments calculator in or near LaFortune on the Wednesday before spring break. Reward offered ­call 233-7213. 
LOST: Gold Elgin watch with gold mesh band back of watch has the initials "TR". Lost between Lewis and ZSouth Dining 
Hall. If found, please call 7493. 
LOST: A levi jean jacket on St. Patricks eve at the Library. Call Mark 8927. 
PERSONALS 
Party, Thursday nita. 923 Notre Dame. 15 kegs. 
An Tostal is coming! All the talented• impersonations (or those of you who think you are talented) register now for impersonation. Call KB at 4-1-4677. Rich Little beware! 
Haircuts, trims, styles, cheap! SMC Betsy, 4530. 
G.O. and Andy 
Thank you for a fantastic Friday evening. Everything was perfect. Especially Napoleon --even though he was a little old. 
Love, Amy 
Valerie Maggos ­
Congratulations on Grad school. Don't forget to remember the little people. Love, 
Prep 
Mary T.B. Is this how I ask you out? Ambitious. 
Happy birthday Whale! Mac, Ratty, Bimbo & Kaliopie 
Crini-Hope your 19th year flies high! Fellow Throats 
Dopey, Happy six months! I love you! Doogan 
Ted Eichelberger, No more personals. Too complicated. • God 
Juniors, 
$50 deposit for senior class trip will be collected April 16-26th. Times to be announced soon. 
All Hawaiian proverbs aside , have a happy birthday. Love and Thanks, 
'the borderliune P.O.V. 
Admiral Normo: Notre Dame Law School, class of '81. Way to go for it. Love, · Lt. Leslo and the EB5 
To Margaret, Sandy and Ann, 
Please for give me. I lost your personal. Call me at 1605 for arefund. Tim Scoop Sullivan....PS: Sorry I was so weird at 
the party. 
If you are terrible in backgammon call spanky 1728 he'll play you and lose. 
CMAC left cookies In the Library for his birthday. 
Attention Dillon: Hall An Tostal T-shirts are coming soon 
Dillon-Alumni stickball tourney. 3 cases first place, one case most HR's and more. Call 1728 to sign up. First 20 teams 
only. 
Contrary to popular belief, Grizz Nellist does not wear hideous masks. It is for real . Vote Grizz Nelllst UMOC! (Barf1 Gross!).• 
Feeling a little bit too happy lately? Need some bad news to bring you down from your euphoria? Then call Scoop's new depression service at 1605 and get sad. 
To Sue from east and the rest of my second floor B-P fan club, I'll never forgive you for not calling me before the double Emil -RA 
Pat Gunning reads the Observer 
Dear Annie Haslam of Renaissance, We are gonna getcha! Love, Your Lungs Frank ,Pete and Sean 
Mr. Bob Brink, 
Please recall, sir, that you have only until Thursday to clean out your mailbox Respectfully, 
Scoop Sullivan 
44­
Do you box? 4Z 
The Amoeba -a small but unstoppable life force." 
There is vlrtualiy no defense against them." 
Digger 


P-........................-----------------------------------------------~--~~--------------­
Wednesday, April12, 1978
8 
the observer 
Nokes challenges Boston Marathon 
by Ray O'Brien Sports Editor 
It has been said that an athlete Is a dHferent breed of person. Runners, In particular, have been singled out as the most peculiar creatures of 
sport, with distance runners earning the distinction of a cate­gory of their own. Athletes participate in sports for various reasons, including money, fame, enjoyment of competition, but none of these responses suffices in answering the more common ques-tion:What makes the distance run­ner .run?" 
On Monday, April 17 hundreds of people will intentionally do something that will put them in pain or at least make them very uncomfortable. This event has become so popular that a rules committee has to narrow down the field of volunteers by setting q u ali fica tion standards. This event, the Super Bowl of distance running, is known as the Boston Marathon. The Notre Dame com­munity will once again be repre­sented in this exclusive sporting affair. Donald Charles "D.C." Nokes will have the honor of running the strenuous 26 mile and 385 yard course. 
Nokes is a unique case because this 24 year old Notre dame graduate (Class of '76) has not been a runner all his life. "I ran track in high school but that was just to keep me in shape for basketball and football where I was a strong third quarterback and sixteenth man on the court," he explained. 
Nokes never ran in college and only starting running because his friends in his hometown of Johns­twon, Pennsylvania were doing it. Eventually the running fever hit him. "I began to run on my own and continued it because I found it was good for my mental health." 
The slender runner entered his first marathon in August after graduating from Notre Dame. In his first daring endeavor, sponsored by the Ancient Order of Hybcrnian of Pittsburgh. he posted 
ND netmen drop three 
by Mark Perry Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's tennis team ran into some tough Big Ten competition this past weekend as they dropped three straight meets to Wisconsin. Northwestern. and Ohio State. The three losses drop the netmen's record to 6-10 for the season. 
The Irish travelled to Wisconsin on Friday and dropped a 6-3 decision to the Badgers as cold weather forced the meet indoors. Winners for Notre Dame were Carleton Harris, who won second singles. the second doubles team of Marty Horan and Bob Koval, and the third doubles team of Herb Hopwood and Mark Hoyer. 
The netmen then took on North­western in Evanston and bad weather again forced the meet indoors where the Wildcats pre­vailed. 8-l. Horan, competing at . sec-ond singles, was the only win­
•lo.:r for Notre Dame. 
On Sunday, the Irish took on Ohio State at home and the Buckeyes handed Notre Dame their third straight loss, winning 7-2, despite several three set matches. Hopwood won at fourth singles for the Irish, and the first doubles team of Harris and Brian Hainline was •also victorious. 
As a result of challenge matches held at practice yesterday, Head Coach Torn Fallon said that he was moving up two freshman, Mark Hoyer and Kevin Ghandi, to sin­gles positions for Thursday's meet against Valparaiso. "I believe that these two freshmen have matured to the point where they can compete in the .~o ~ttRies bracket," Fallon commented. tle also said that Hoyer and Ghandi might be used at singles for a fu11 schedule of meets this weekend. 
The Valparaiso meet will be at 
horne on Thursday with action slated to begin at 3 p.m. on the Courtney Courts. On Friday and Saturday the Irish will travel to Bowling Green to take on the host school. Eastern Kentucky. and Northern Illinois. Notre Dame will return home for a full schedule on Sunday. starting with a 9 a.m. match with Iowa, followed by a triangular with Marquette and Xavier at 2 p.m. 
SMC trips Grace 
Yesterday in Winona, Indiana, the St. Mary's Varsity Softball team opened their season with a much improved look--and a 9-7 victoey over Grace College. 
The Belles jumped to an early lead by piling up seven runs in the' first four innings, while pitcher Diane Klucka was holding Grace to a mere two runs in the first six stanzas. 
What proved to be the deciding runs for the Belles, however, came in the top of the sixth when Cathy Bickel, two for four on the after­noon, tripled to start the sixth inning rally. Sue Nicholas' single drove home Bickel for the deciding run, stole second, and came home on Annette Cate's fourth hit of the day, a triple that easily brought in the insurance run. · 
A bases-loaded double by Grace's ;Terry McGohan capped a late five run surge in the final. inning, but Klucb got herseH out of the jam, fielding two grounders errorlessly, then striking out the final batter to end the game. 
1'his Friday. the Belles will takeJ on IUPU\on Bolen Field in South Bend, starting at 2 p.m. A Saturday double header on the same field will feature Kalamazoo Valley Col­lege versus the Belles, to begin at 
11:30 Ja.m. 
a respectable time of three hours and thirty-three minutes. In the past year and a half, Nokes has taken on seven other gruellin~ marathon courses. When asked tf he finished every race, he com-mented, "I have finished every one and to finish is to win in this game." The most important marathon was the Potter County-God's Country race where he logged a personal best time of two hours and 57 minutes which quali­fied him for the Boston Marathon. 
"To qualify, a male under 40 years of age must finish an AAU recognized marathon in under three hours. I went into this with exactly that goaL" 
A qualifying pace would be an average of under seven minutes a mile for the 26 mile course. This causes a physical strain that only marathon runners could appre­ciatP.. Some doctors feel the physical punishment is too much. "I have been fortunate to have never hadd any ill effects from the· marathon," Nokes commented. "However, I have never pushed myself to the point where I might damage my body." 
"I have never entered a race with a set time except in the race where I qualified for the Boston marathon. But I'm definitely going to Boston with hopes of setting a personal record." 
Perhaps many of the students have seen Nokes practicing for these marathons. The ex-Domer has one goal when he runs-get to work and get back home. "I run 12 miles every day. This includes running the six miles from my appartment to Notre Dame and then back after work." The disciplined marathoner has the procedure down to a science as he carries his work clothes in a napsack and showers at the "Rock," but there still remain 
Irish sparkle at Indy 
Superb effort nets golfers third 
by Tom Desmond Sports Writer 
The Fighting Irish golf team registered one of their finest tourn­ament performances in recent memory yesterday at the Indian­apolis Intercollegiate but unfortun­ately for Noel O'Sullivan's squad so did Purdue and Ball State. 
The Irish, paced in the morning round by captain Rich Knee's one-under par 69, shared the lead at midway through the 36-hole event, matching Purdue at 363. The Irish continued their low-70's shooting over the final18 but it was the Boilermakers, sparked by medalist Eric Dutt's 66, who ran away with things as they carded a 356, for a 719 total--14 shots better than Notre Dame. Ball State, the tournament's defending champion, shot identical rounds of 364 to steal second five shots better than the 
\ Irish. "When a team is going to throw numbers like Purdue did today, there really is little anyone can do to beat them," reflected O'Sul-· livan. "We played today like we did on Saturday when we beat Tri-State. We had a 73 average then and we had a 73 average today. An average like that gives· pride and confidence to a team." · And, a team it is. Led by Knee's; 
some kinks. "My clothes usually 
look like I've slept in them but that 
is a price yotr have to pay." 
the Boston Marathon for the folly of 
it all, this race is only one stop on a 
13 marathon tour for Nokes .year that will take him from 
Washington D.C. to Chicago 
Honolulu. 
"I narrowed it down to 13 races 
by considering the economical,··~. 
physical and geographical factors. 
I can't wait for the Pikes Peak 
marathon. I had trouble getting to 
the top in a tram car so I can 
imagine what running up it will be 
like," said Nokes. 
When questioned on the feasibil­ity of running in 13 marathons Nokes commented, "Good runners would never even think of running in that many marathons in a year. It supposedly takes your body a day to recover from every racing mile you run; so you should rest 26 days between each meet." The Notre Dame admissions officer has scheduled two of his stops nine days apart. 
Still this running enthusiast claims he is not Stjrious about running and his approach to the sport would have you believe him. When asked whethifr he even owned a car he exclai~ed, "I won one but I was thinking ~bout selling it. My friends convinced me that I was out of my minjl because I couldn't use my bicycle to go out on a date.'' The sport: itself is not without its humorous side. "In one race the lead police car made a wrong turn and everyone ended up finishing the race from different directions." 
Perhaps it takes a fresh approach to survive these taxing jaunts. The "D.C." Nokes, a 1976 Notre Dame graduate, will challenge Boston Marathon is renowned for 26 mile Boston Marathon on April17. [photo by Mark Muench] its infamous "Heartbreak Hill." 
This year's field is the finest in thefiii0¢0Z3f'?~0£'0~7fo!Gt8~7;""r'~il07""'~-----,
race's history, featuring American 
record holder and 1975 victor, Bill 
Roger, and Olympi,c gold medal. 
winner Frank Shorter. Somewhere'•' ,,.,,,,.,.,,,,,,,,,·'·'··''·· 
in the crowd behind these two will 
%Observerbe NO's own D.C. Nokes. While Shorter and Rogers have reached their peaks . Nokes has just begun. 
0~~i:~~~~!~;i~:;~~~~~' "~c:~,,·,····:.•~. .. ···.·.. 0r t s 
•...•. .•. ... ~ n.· should be crossing the finish line .., right next to Rogers," he proclaims. 
We will all stay tuned. 

finest outing as a collegian, he 
posted a 74 during the afternoon to 
capture third place with a 143 total, 
the Irish had four men in the 
tourney's top-ten scorers. Follow­
ing Knee was junior Tim Saurs who 
tallied rounds of 71 and 75 for 146. 
Sophomores Dave Knee and John 
Lundgren were right on Saurs' 
heels with 147 and 148 totals 
respectively to round out the Irish 
contingent in the low ten totals. 
Freshman Tim Sachet recorded rounds of 74 and 77 and if it weren't for a disasterous nine on the par-three 18th in the opening round, the South Bend native would have been in the thick of things with upperclassmen Knee and Saurs. Tom McCarthy, another freshman on the youthful squad, logged scores of 74 and 78 for 152. 
Although the Irish finished third, something they have done on two other occasions in this tournament played on the 6,360-yard Coffin Municipal Course, site of the 1972 National Publimx championship, this was by far their best outing at Indianapolis. In totalling 733, the Irish bested their third-place aggregate of a year ago by 27 shots and overall set a Notre Dame mark · for the Indianapolis Intercollegiate , that is 18 shots lower than the 751 that earned third place in 1974. 
"I was glad to see us post such good scores on a layout like this," O'Sullivan noted further as he ran down the finest tournament output by one his teams since he became head coach in 1974. "We have the Kepler Invitational this weekend, 54 holes on one of the toughest collegiate courses in the country-­the Scarlet Course at Ohio State." In the past the Irish have not faired well at the Kepler and last season was no exception when O'Sul­livan's team finished a distant 20th. "All of our young players are gaining valuable experience and I feel that our scores prove that this year we are going to be competitive in every tournament. The situation last spring was similiar, we took third at Indianapolis, went to the Kepler and faltered. But, I fell things will be different this time because we are really playing a whole lot better this year." Twenty seven shots better, to be ex~ct. 
CHIP-INS: In Saturday's 366-400 win over Tri-State on the Burke Memorial, Tim Saurs took medalist honors with an even-par 71. .. The three hottest players on the squad 
right  now  are  Dave  Knee,  Rid  
Knee  and  Tim  Saurs.  Dave  is  
averaging  72.0  since  ihe  Irish  

returned North, while Rich is firing at a 73.3 pace and Tim, 73.5. 

