In Vatican City 

Conclave elects Cardinal Wojtyla 
VATICAN CITY (AP) -Cardinal Karol W ojtyla of Poland was elec­ted pope of the Roman Catholic Church yesterday in a bold break with a 455-year tradition of Italian pontiffs that foreshadows a new era in relations between Rome and the communist world. 
The little-known, 58-year-old archbishop of Krakow, whose elec­

' tion by the secret conclave of cardinals came as a complete surprise, took the name John Paul, the same as his predecessor. "May Jesus Christ be praised," the new pontiff told a throng of 100,000 as he made his first public appearance on a basilica balcony overlooking St. Peter's Square. "Viva il papa!" "Long live the pope! " the crowd roared into the moonlit night. Wojtyla's selection of the papal name John Paul II apparently indicates he plans to follow in the steps of his three immediate pre­decessors---John XXIII, Paul VI and John Paul I, who died Sept. 28 after a reign of only 34 days. Wojtyla's election came on the seventh or eighth ballot of the conclave of 111 cardinals in the Sistine Chapel that began Saturday evening. White smoke, traditional signal that a pope is chosen, wafted from the chapel chimney at 6:18 p.m. 
(1:18 p.m. EDT). Tens of thou­sands rushed to St. Peter's Square as news of the election spread. 
About an hour after the smoke appeared, Wojtyla, clad in his new papal robes, walked onto the balcony, waving and smiling to the tumultuous crowd. 
"Now the most reverend cardinals have called a new bishop to Rome. They have called him from a distant country," he said, speaking good Italian with a slight accent. 
"I was afraid to receive this nomination but I did it in the spirit of obedience to our Lord and in the total confidence in Our Mother, the most holy Madonna." 
His election was viewed as another step in the church's pro­cess of internationalization, a pro­cess spurred by Pope Paul VI. For this reason, many Catholic scholars here were jubilant over the choice, calling it historic. 
The Rev. Robert Kohlhass, a Benedictine official from Cologne, Germany s~id Wojtyla, whose name IS pronounced "Voy-tee'-wah," is "very popular in his home archdiocese" and "a strong supporter of the reform of the Second Vatican Council." 

As for his dealings with the Communists, Kohlhass said, "He often let them have a piece of his mind. He has taken a very firm stand. Poland is Communist-ruled but the government cannot do much without the church." 
The Catholic Church plays an important role in Polish national life despite the atheism of the government's official philosophy~ 
Paul referred to the church in the communist world as the "silent church." Nevertheless, Pope Paul initiated a policy of opening con­tacts with governments in Eastern Europe and last year met with Polish Communist leader Edward Gierek at the Vatican. ~ 
Wojtyla's relations with the Communist government have been businesslike, and in churchmeet­ings he has urged that there be no head-on clash with atheists. 
"It is not the church's place to teach unbelievers," Wojtyla once said, "let us avoid any spirit of monopolizing and moralizing." 
But more recently, in the 1977 bishops' synod, he described Marxist teachings as "the anti-catechism of the secular world." 
On theological matters, Wojtyla has closely followed the teachings of the Second Vatican Council, called by Pope John XXIII to overhaul some of the church's ancient workings. 
At the Vatican, Wojtyla served in three offices---the congregations for sacraments and divine worship, for the clergy, and for Catholic education. 
On such major divisive issues within the church as birth control and priestly celibacy, W ojtyla has taken middle-of-the-road positions. 
In a widely published essay called "Love and Responsibility," he backed Pope Paul's encyclical "Humanae Vitae," which banned all artificial methods of contracep~ tion. 
"Marriage is not a product of the unconscious evolution of natural forces but a communion of two persons based on what they mu­tually give each. other," he said. 



The 

Observer 
;m independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's Vol. XIII, No. 36 Tuesday, October 17, 1978 
Religious leaders in area receive pontiff with surprise 
• by Michael Ridenour The election of a Polish Pope . munism. He'll be firm without Staff Reporter brought immediate reactions being obstinate."' · concerning issue of communism. Van Wolvlear explained why the Religious leaders of Notre Dame "Since Wojtyla comes from a cardinals chose Wojtyla as the 
and _he surrounding area echoed communist country. his first hand pope. "The cardinals were not the world':. reaction of surprise to experience with communism will influenced by the media. The the announcement vf Polish Cardi­help in dealing effectively with the . Church is showing the world that nal K.uol Wojtyla as the new communist party in Italy as well as they selected a man who they 
bishop of Rome. Pope John Paull!. i~ Eastern Europe," Dolan stated. thought could do the best job." 
;;'r. Theodore Hesburgh. Presi­He went on to describe Wojtyla dent of Notre Dame. was out of as socially progressive but reli­town but his administrative assis­'...Chu!tch wanfu to giously conservative. tant, Monsifr.or Juhn Egau stated Egan said,"Wojtyla has a great the seli>ction of the pope as family background and has spoken
!leach beyond the 
"magnif:cent. it was ar. inspired out strongly for the poor and choke. I was ~urprised and religious liberty.·· Egan added
91lon CuJttaiJl •..• happy
stunned with the selection." ''I'm very with the cardi­Fr. John Van Wolvlear, vice nals' selection."
"It gives hope," Doian
presidenf for student affairs, said The selection of a non-Italian
continued, "to the communist
the selection of Wojty!a "was an pope was not a surprise to Egan.
countries knowing there will be a 
extr.. 'lrdinarily logical choice but a "I thought there would be a good
Polish Pope. I think the commu­
big surprise." chance for a non-Italian pope
nism in Italy was very important in 
because of the dwindling numberHistory profesSl'r and director of Wojtyla's being selected." 

of Italian cardinals."

the Center for the Study of Ameri­Egan concurred with Dolan's State Catholic leaders were alsocan Catholh:ism Jay Dolan said, remarks, saying, "This will have a pit· a sed and surprised at W ojtyla 's
"It's amazing; the selection of tremendous effect on the Commu­selection as pontiff.
popes never ceases to surprise me, nist World. Wojtyla brings a 
they always come out of the dark." sophistication in dealing with Com-Bishop William McManus of Fort Wayne stated he was tht ·· ~d by the news of the new pope. ''I was surprised and delighted. I
Board of Re·gents 
think the new pope has a well deserved reputation of being a priest of immense faith." 

"When the new pope was in Chicago," McManus continued, "I When built, the new library will met him. He speaks English quite 

approves new library 
b) Jt:.IIJ J>uwlcJ 
encompass 75,000 square feet of well. He's affable and tried to
Saint Mar.1 ·,Editor 
space, as opposed to the 17,700 learn as much as possible about the square feet of the present library U.S. while here." Saint Mary's will have a new which was built in the early 1940s. "Wojtyla has an intense interest Campus sentiment calls for reno­in young people and feels the
library within the next five years, if 
vation of the library future of the church depends much
the necessary $6 to 7 million is present to provide space for social activities on their involvement in it. One ofsuccessfully raised, according to and offices for student govern­his great worries in Poland has
College -President John M. 
ment, and clubs, Duggan said. been how the government has tried
Duggan. The College's Board of Regents; 
However, funds for its renova­to propagandize young people which met this weekend, started tion would also have to be appropri­against the church," McManus stated.
the ball rolling by approving a ated and no commitment has yet been made by the Regents. McManus said the new pope'sfund-raising plan for the new Duggan said he looks forward to Polish tradition and heritage willlibrary and by forming an ad hoc enrich the papacy. "The pope has
· breaking ground for the library no
building committee which will re­the kind of devotion, loyalty and
later than spring, 1980, but sooner
view future needs and interview generosity typical of Polish Cath­if possible. 
prospective architects. 
olics here in the U.S. and Poland,"

The Board also reviewed the College's five-year financial projec­The fund-raising plan calls for McManus explained.
appeals to corporations, founda­tion and asked for more McManus said it was good that
informa­
tions, alumnae, friends and par­the new pope is from an iron
tion about necessary salary and
ents, Duggan said. The $6 to 7 curtain country. He stated thatmillion figure includes endowment tuition adjustments. 
"the Church wants to reach beyond

Duggan said that due to rising
for operation of the new facility. 
the iron curtain countries to mil­

utility, salary, minimum wage and
Although no location has yet lions of Catholics who have re­
been chosen, Duggan· admitted other costs, students can expect mained loyal to the church."
another tuition increase next year. 
that only two plans are being given "The Pope will be very sensitive
A definite decision on the matter
serious consideration .. Removal of to the presence of people behind
will be made when the Board meets
the LeMans parking lot and build-­Iron Curtain countries,'' McManus
in February. ·
ing the library on this location, in remarked.
Opportunities for tenure and
the center of the campus, is the one which has met with the most favor. 
financial benefits were also ex­Auxiliary Bishop Joseph Crowley tended to part-time faculty by the of South Bend stated "It is a vcn"We could then remove a park­Board, as a result of a recommen­i'nteresting and ~igniticant thinging lot from the middle of campus dation by the college's Committee that a cardinal behind the Iron
where it doesn't belong.· Eventual­ly we'd like to have a w·alking on Education. In the past, Curtain was elected." campus like Notre Dame's with part-time faculty members were Crowley said it was "nice for the 
perimeter parking," Duggan ex­not eligible for tenure or for fringe first non-Italian pope in about 500 benefits and salary increments that years to come from Poland, the
plained. 
other faculty were entitled to.
He also said that that centrally country has suffered so much." located area would be ideal for a Finally, the Board sent a resolu­Fr. Albin Hosinski, pastor of St. 
library. ti~n of appreciation to the Sisters of ·Stanislaus Parish Band M, said the 
The other location receiving con­the Holy Cross for the $187,000 decision of the cardinals carne as a they contributed to the· College last
sideration is the area immediately complete surprise. "I'm very south of Madeleva Hall, where the year. All of the sisters on Saint happy. It is a very historical day for Mary's payroll return half of their
field hockey field is now located, the Church. The parishioners are he said. salaries each year to the college. overjoyed," Rosinski stated. 
Tuesday, Ckiober17, 1978
the observer
2 

,_News Briefs ____.........,.. 

t:::::==========================World 
Simon wins Nobel Prize 
STOCKHOLM, Sweden [AP] -American economist herbert Simon won the 1978 Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Science yesterday for pioneering research into the way complex organiza-. tions such as multinational companies make their business decisions. The 62-year-old professor at the Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh, Pa., also was hailed by the Swedish Academy of Sciences for his broad research in social science fields. 
Taxpayers march 
NEW BEDFORD, Mass. [AP] -About 4,000 noisy, sign-waving taxpayers marched on the City Hall of this fishing port yesterday, demanding that the mayor cut their porperty taxes. At least tow persons were arrested in what a police captain termed "an uprising." "We're up to our ears," Police Capt. Augustus Correa said at the height of the morning demonstration, inspired by a weekend appeal by a radio disc jockey. Booed loudly when he appeared surrounded by police at a second-story window, Mayor John A. Markey told the crowd: "No one is more concerned about taxes than I am." But he said he could not cut their taxes. The crowd dispersed after his remarks. 
~============================= National 
Theft ring uncovered 
PHOENIX, Ariz. [AP] -An auto theft ring dealing in late model luxury cars from the Chicago area has been uncovered here, l?hoenix police Sgt. George Kinney said yesterday. Kinney said up to 100 cars are believed involved, adding that seven vehicles were recovered here in the past week. All of them had been brought into the state under Indiana and Illinois titles, he said. 

Press freedom threatened 
INDIANAPOLIS [AP] -Demands that New York Times reporter Myron Farber make his notes available to a New Jersey court and a 
U.S. Supreme Court ruling are making a mockery of First Amendment rights, a free press advocates contends. Jack Landau, director of the Reporters Committee for Freedom of the Press, said recent court decisions have put the news media in danger of "losing every shred of editorial privacy." The Newhouse columnist said he has been warning for five years that a confrontation between the press and the judiciary was imminent unless the two groups sat down to moderate their differences. Journalists have tried to be fair, Landau said., but, "the time to be reasonable has ended and we have to start fighting back." 

Weather 
WEATHER 
Sunny and warmer today with highs in the low to mid 50s. Partly cloudy and not so cool tonight with lows around 40. Partly cloudy and mild tomorrow with a chance for showers and highs in the upper 50s. 



~On Campus Today_----... 
4:30pm  lecture, "the austrian national holiday," dr. lanzinger, spon. by nd german club, scollections rm., mem. lib.  klaus pecial  
4:30pm  bio seminar, "varicella;  a  persistent  virus  and  a  

persistent challenge," dr. thomas weller, 278 galvin 
5 pm austria night in the dining halls, with austrian dishes and entertainment, spon. by nd german club 
7 pm film, "fiinfzig jahre unsere geschichte," (50 years of our history), spon. by nd german club, Iafortune theatre 
7:15, 10 pm film, "oliver," lyons hall chapel, admission $1 
12 am wsnd album hr., "fnends" by the beach boys, am 640 
Observer Editorial Board 
Tony Pace Editor-in-Chief Steve Odland Managing Editor John Calcutt Executive·Editor 
Barb Langhenry 

Executive Editor Rosemary Mills Editorial Editor Phil Cackley 
.Copy Editor Jean Powley St. Mary's Editor Ann Gales 
News Editor Mike Lewis 
News Editor Diane Wilson 
News Editor Ray O'Brien 
Sports Editor Bryan Gruley Features Editor Doug Christian 
Photo Epitor 



Quickie service to continue 
by Ed Moran StaH Reporter  said Devine. "Student Union was willing to accept this cost at first, but after use of the Quickie tailed  Kubiak's, Jay's Lounge, Shula's, and the Heidleburg. The price of an all-night pass is one dollar.  
The Quickie will continue to run  off, they haven't  been  too  crazy  "We even had a 'Quickie T-Shirt  
on "off-weekends" this semester,  about it."  Night'  where  we  gave  T-Shirts  
thank!> to "good student response"  "The Student Union doesn't like away at S2 a shirt," said Devine.  

to last Friday night's operation, paying for something that the 
according to Jim Devine. who is in studentswon't use," said Devine. 
charge of the service. "They could spend their money on 
The Student Union, which funds a Bull Moose Party or something." 
the Quickie, was considering drop­Devine said that -one night last 
ping the weekly excursions to semester, "only IS passengers" 
Michigan Bars because of rising 'Used the Quickie. 
cost~ and low student interest last The Quickie begns its run at the 
semester. ND Main Circle and proceeds to 
"The bus company raised their Holy Cros~ Circle at SMC. It then 
prices from $220 a night" hl $312... goes. in order. to the Forum I & II. 
German Honor Society sponsors Austrian Day 
by Tom Wittebort 
In commemoration of the 19.'i.'i signing of the Au~trian State Treaty. the document wh1ch awarded Austria it~ independence. the German Honor Sociely has declared toda~· Au~trian Da~· on the Notre Dame campu~. 

· Activities will indudc a night of Austrian atmosphere and cuisine at both dining halls. a lecture. and film presentations concerning Au~­trian history and culture. 
F(Jr Tuesday·~ dinner. the dining halls will be festooned with Austri­an decor. including a pair of 21-foot Austrian !lags which will be di~· played during the course of the meal. The German cooks will join the food service staff expressly li1r the purpose of preparing the evening's 'special ml•nu of wicncrshnitzcl. apple qrudle. black bread. and imported cheese. 
At 4:30 p.m.. professor Kla~ Lanzinger, an Austrian native and South Bend resident. will present a lecture concerning the history and heritage of Austria in the Special Collections room of the Memorial Library. In addition, a film from the Austrian institute of New York entitled "SO Years of Our Repub­lic" will be shown at 7 p.m. in the LaFortune Theater. ·The film depicts the struggies and triumphs of the first half century of the 
*The Observer 
Steve Martin Night 
Night Editor: Sherry "Wild 
and Krazy Kind of... " Mum­
mert 
Asst. Night Editor: H "I just 
want a little blu-u-u-e... " 
Devitt 
Layout Staff: Danny "Cat 
Juggler" Smith, Dave "King 
Tut" Berg, John "Ram blin"' 
Smith, Dave "Umbrella head" 
Brosh 
Features Layout: C.L. McKiel 
("Awake anoon! yon Chaucer­
ians!) (HUH??) 
Sports Layout: Mark (Go into a 
closet and suck eggs!") Perry 
Typists: Mardi "I forgot" 
Nevin, Tom "With a shotgun" 
Pipp, Rosie "Purple and Clair­
voyant" Rodgers, Pete "Tight 
Double-Knit pants" McFad­
den 
E.M.T .: (excuse) meeeee!!!! Day Editor: John Ferroli (ob­

long  and  had  his  knees  
removed)  
Copy  Readers:  Mike  Lewis  

and the Martyr (boring and inaccurate people) Ad Layout: David E. Wood$ Photographer: Ron '"I'm so mad at my mother'' Szot 

The Observer Is published Mon­day 'through Friday except during exam and v.catlon periods. Tl)e Observer Ia published by the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purdlaaecl for 520 per ye.,. (51 o per semester) from The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Sec10nd clan postage paid, Notre Dame, Indiana, 4UU. 
The Obaerver Ia a member of the Anocletocl Prell. All repro­duction rllhta are reaervecl. 
Austrian Republic. and feature!> commentan· bY ~uch prominent figure~ a~ Kurt Schu~ehnigg. a leading Au~trian historian. 
Au~trian Da1· i... sponsored h~· Delta Phi Alpha. the German Honor Socict~· composed chictly of ~t udent~ who have been or will be im·oiYed in the foreign study program at lnn... bruck. a~ well as those who share an interest in Germanic language~ and civilit.a­tion. 
The da<s activities spccitkally 
tcontinued on page 3) "But still nobady came." 
Devine stated that thts sem~ter the Quickie will probably be run on "off-weekends...weekends when nothing's happening." 
"Last Friday night's tot~ll> showed that there is still a need fur the Quickie. even if only on a limited basis," he concluded. 
·need posters in a hurry?. 

203 n. main nowntown So Bend 289-6977 
Jerry Wrmt1aub and Concerts WrS>I ~

JOBI....VB...B 

====LIVB==== INCONCBBT 
CENTER STAGE IN TBI BOnD 
November 3, 1978 • SPM Notre Dame ACC 
Ticket sale starts 


I I I I I I I I I I 

Hair Concepts 'Hair designs for Men & Women, with the emphasis on Easy Care' 
open late tues.-thurs. Bpm 
272-7222 
-

North Y2. mile east. of notre dame 18381 Edison at lnd 23 
2041 E. Ireland at l.ronwood
south 


291-1001 

master charge .. 

( 
' 
T-uesd..y, October 17, 1978 the observer 
Hair Styling •fl
for 
men and





Dorm security increases over break 


~-------~---~~--~-----------­

Notre Dame security is preparing to implement routine measures for the October break while off-campus students are bracing for the annual rash of vacation burglaries. 
Security Director Joe Wall ex­plained that the general procedure that is followed each year includes the complete lock-up of some campus buildings with partial clo­sings of some dorms. 
"Hanner and Grace will remain completely open, but some other balls will be equipped with "vaca­tion locks," Wall said. He did not reveal, howeVer, which buildings would be equipped with these locks. 
He explained that the vacation locks are placed on certain doors of a hall while all other entrances to the building are locked for the duration of the vacation. Students are provided with keys to these locks by the rector of their hall. 
Wall pointed out that grounds people as well as security person­nel will be making special checks of buildings on campus. "If we are aware of any suspicious people on the campus during the break, we might ask for their I.D. cards," commented The Director of Securi­ty. 
Wall also stressed that bicycles 

should, be thoroughly secured be­
fore· leaving, because there is a 
greater chance of robbery than 
usual due to the decreased number 
of students present. 
John Fitzpatrick, Student Gov­ernment Off-Campus Co-ordinator, stressed that students living off­.campus should take special mea­sures to avoid the possibility of 
being r?bbed during the break. 
"Especially if they live in the Northeast neighborhood, there is a very good possibility that they will get ripped off during the break," Fitzpatrick said, adding, "The best thing to do is to get another student who is staying or a neighbor to store your valuables. 
Fitzpatrick warned, however, that under insurance company 
Board of Governance chooses charity, discusses shuttle pass 
by Margie BrassU 
St. Jude's Children's Research Hospital was chosen by the Board of Governance last night as the Saint Mary's charity for 1978-79. The Board also discussed plans for the shuttle bus, College Career Days, and the results of the basketball ticket lottery, at the meeting held in Regina Hall. 
The fund, chosen from several suggested funds, will raise money to aid in the research and care of catastrophic children's diseases, such as leukemia, cancer and malnutrition. Susie Glockner, who has been involved in raising money for St. Jude's, spoke at the meeting stressing the benefits and services the hospital provides for children. 
The Board's vote was unani­mous. According to Maureen Carden, vice president for Academ­ic Affairs, although all the funds were worthy of consideration, the Board agreed that St. Jude's was especially important since it did involve the care of children and all the money went toward research. 
Marianne Frost reported on the possibilty of shuttle bus passes. Although the details have not yet been worked out with Notre Dame, Frost believes a temporary plan will be in effect after October break. 
The pass will be valid for 20 rides and will cost SJ. The pass would be convenient for the students who might not always have con:ect change for bus fare. Frost said she hopes that students will be able to purchase the passes twice a week, although she reiterated the details have not been worked out. 
The passes will be used until Christmas when Frost will assess the project and decide whether or not to continue the program during the second semester. 
Also suggested was the possibili­ty of re-routing the shuttle so it could pick up and drop off students twice nightly at the Notre Dame and Campus View Apartments. This project is very tentative but the entire board was enthusiastic about it. 
The re-routing would make it easier and safer for off-campus students to get back and forth in the evening, Frost asserted. Suggested times were 7 p.m. and 12 midnight. Although this will mean missing a stop at these times at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's there will be no cost increase or any other inconvenience involved, Frost explained. 
Frost said more work needs to be done to co-ordinate the schedule and it could be some time before it goes into effect. 
Carden discussed the plans for College Career Days which will run Nov. 7-9. The purpose of the program is to provide information on careers available to Saint Mary's graduates. The main speaker on Nov. 7 will be Denise Kavanaugh, '61. In her position with Cook Kanvanaugh AssoCiates, Kavanaugh is familiar with many aspects of the job market. 
On Nov. 8 and 9 there will be a series of informal discussions· from alumnae who wilrtalk about how a Saint Mary's degree aided them ·in obtaining a job, whether they went on to Graduate School and where they went, and other topics relating to careers. 
The lottery winners for the basketballtickets has been posted in 
every  hall  on  campus,  it  was  
reported.  Extra  tickets  were  
allotted  to  seniors,  giving  them  

130, and 90 to each of the other classes. To recieve their tickets, students picked in the lottery must pay their $12 by Wednesday at Mary Laverty's office in LeMans. 
~C Student Body·· President 
. Gail Darragh announced that there will be a revision in the Student 13ovemment Budget because a rft~fate was made in the original sum quoted. Thr original amount was S27,000 but the adjusted figure is $25,000. 
Darragh explained that while no cutbacks will be made, it will mean Jess of a carryover for next year. Funds might have to come from the Social CQmmission' s movies and funds may be asked for from the College, she added. 
Austrian Day begins at ND 
[continued from page 2] 
co~IJ!emorat~ the fu!l restorati011 of sovereignty to Austria as granted by the Austrfarl State Treaty of 1955. Previous to this date, Austria lurd befon occupied by the four victorious allied powers of Britain, France. the Unite•l States, and the Soviet 'Vnion after the Nazis had been defeated. On October 25, 1955, the last foreign soldier left Austrian soil, and on the next day the new parliament passed a declaration of neutrality. 
The signing of the State Treaty . 
marked the onl:y instance thJ~t Soviet troops have vacated oc­cupied territory in Europe. 
Foreigner lottery to be held 
There will be a lottery for the Nov. 11 Foreigner concert tonight at 6 
p.m. ir. LaFortune. Tickets are $&.50 and S7.~. 


Tank up before the trip 
regulations, the person who is storing a students' valuables while he is away is not normally liable for any theft or damage that might occur. 
The Off-Campus Co-ordinator also said that a newsletter had been mailed out to all students living off-campus that included crime­prevention suggestions for them to follow for the vacation. 
Phil Johnson, Student Govern­ment Security Coordinator, echoed many of Fitzpatrick's comments, stressing that in addition to storing valuables, the next best way for students to prevent a robbery is to leave the appearance that there is someone home. 
"Students shouldn't let the newspapers get stacked up, and, if possible, get a timer to regulate lights in the house," Johnson said. 
"The Soufh Bend police really are concerned with the students' welfare," Johnson commented, adding, ''their main problem is the fact that the students are not concentrated in any small area and women who like as a result, the police can't always tell where the students are living." 
t~look 277-07 
theu-best...

Johnson did stress that although the police may not be aware of the students' departure, potential bur­'l:z mile north of campus, (U.S. 3glars very well might be. "The 
N) Across from Randall's Inn professional thief is OUt there right 

I 

now, and he knows what valuables the students have and who is · leaving,'' he said. 

• 


HARVARD UNIVERSITY 
LAW? BUSINESS ? 
or PUBLIC POLICY? 
Which graduate program offers the best preparation for a ·career in public service? On Friday, October 20, Greg Upscomb, a representativ1 of the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard Univer­
sity,  will  be  on  campus  to  discuss  the  
School's  program  in  public  policy.  
Students  from  all  majors  are  invited.  

Contact Placement Bureau, Administra­tion Bldg., Rm. 213, 283-8342. 

NOTRE DAME A·C·C· All Seats Reserved $8.50 & $7.50 Tickets now on sale at 
A.C.C. Box Office 9am to 5pm 
and STUDENT UNION TICKET OFFICE 
AUGUSTI"IA"S 

"HOW CAN I MAKE MY LIFE WORTHWHILE?" 

One way may be to live within the Augustinian Fraternity. Wtien you come to live with us, you observe and participate In our community life for several years before making a final commitment You observe that we are a religious community following the charlsm of St. Augustine and "thai together and with one heart In brotherhood and spiritual friendship, we seek and woe-ship God and thai we labor ·In the service of the people of God." We serve in colleges, high schools, parishes, foreign missions, campus ministries, retreats, hospitals and military chaplaincies. . 
WANT MORE INFORMATION? CONTACT: 
Father Bill Waters, O.S.A. 
Villanova University 
P.O. Box 338 Villanova, PA 19085 (215) 525-5612 
Name________________________ 
Addreas'-----------------------------------­
City_____________State_____.___Zip___________ 
School '-• ....cc. _________Age___________ 
Phone L-.-------------­
• 



Neil Young at the ACC 
Better to Burn Out Than to Fade Away 
. 
"When I grow up, I'm going to get me an electric guitar" --Neil Young 
An air of uncertainty hung over the ACC Thursday night. A crowd of 5500, many of whom expected the intense artistry of Neil Young to lift the rainy mid-term Thursday blahs from the South Bend sky outside, was unsure of how to react to the Neil Young mystique. He appears a bit distant to crowds who may not understand his music. It is music born of the serious minded late sixties and early seventies, performed now in a world intent upon discoing into the eighties. Neil Young is a discordant element, a clashing chord, in a world where slick professionalism is once again the vital characteristic of a "popu­lar~· image. His tendency as an artist is to be unexpected, to make one feel a bit uncomfortable. 
And that is precisely what he did Thursday night. At the beginning· of the show the scene was surrealistically set, and 
became obvious that this was not so much a "concert" as a staged production-­and a well-done one at that. He started surprisingly with a typically thoughtful acoustic set, and followed it with a loud, provoking electric set of old classics and unreleased songs. 
· To be sure, there were many classics. Young opened with "Sugar Mountain," a song that has become almost a theme for an entire generation. Sitting cross-legged atop what would later be uncovered to reveal a huge amplifier, Young looked insignificant and tiny by contrast. It was followed by "I Am a Child," and the title cut off of his new album, ''Comes a Time," the rendition of which was given in a sometimes hoarse voice that reflected the strain of almost two months of touring. 
Young's electric set followed the acous­tic, and it included such familiar releases as "When You Dance," "Cortez 
When Nothing Is the Sante 
the Killer," and "Cinnamon Girl.'' With 
the exception of bass guitarist Billy 
Talbot's bothersome, unrhythmic head 
bobbing (he looked like he was too happy 
and too coked up to care how he looked) it 
was exceptionally well done. 

And then a most interesting thing 
happened. Right in the middle of the 
electric set (appropriately named, both for 
how the music was played and the manner 
in which it was so often heard) Young 
stopped the tempo and momentum to make 
a statement with what is perhaps his most 
moving and powerful, yet simple and quiet 
song--"Needle and the Damage Done." 
Young, who lost many friends to drugs, 
including band member Danny Whitten, 
was putting his music and his culture into 
perspective. With the sensitivity that 
makes his lyrics border on genius, Young 
captured in one moving song his disillu­
sionment as a sm:vivor and his disillusion­
ment with the lifestyle of an entire 
generation. 

I sing the song because I loved 
the man 

I know that some of you won't 
understand 

Milk blood, to keep from 
running out. 

I've seen the needle and the 
damage done 

A little part of it in everyone 
And every junkie's like a 
setting sun... 

He returned to an electric set that included "Like A Hurricane," along with another series of unreleased songs that tended toward folk rock. At this point, the high volume of the music, which was appropriate during the more familiar songs, had the effect of making the lyrics hard to understand and was a bit counter-productive~ However, the lyrics to one song--"Rock and Roll is Here to Stay''--were quite clear, and they provided the backbone to the staging of this show--the staging of an elaborate defense of Neil Young as an aging artist committed to his music: 
The king is dead but he's not 
forgotten 

This is the story of Johnny 
Rotten. 
It's better to burn out 
Than fade away 

Rock and Roll is here to stay. 
What Neil Young brought to this production was not a high level of audience involvement or a string of popular songs from his most commercially successful albums. But certainly the degree of audience excitement or familiarity of material is not a critical factor in determin­ing the quality of a performance given by an artist as complex as Young. Young makes statements. His tour is a produc­tion, a staged defense of his position as a mature adult committed to his music and his culture, and all the seemingly frivolous elements of surrealism were actually a part of that statement. While Jimmy Hendrix' version of the "Star Spangled Banner" prefacedthe show, it was accompanied by the lofting into place of a huge fake · microphone in a manner reminiscent of the flag raisingat Iwo Ji~a. It was an example of Young's impulse to stage and make statements, rather than just limiting himselfto the musical medium. This visual metaphor was acted out by a hooded group of "Roadi's" a la Star Wars. The comniercial dimension that their appear­
of Photo by Ron Szot 
humor. It was a foil, providing a contrast to what Young's purpose really is·as a serious artist. It is worthy of note that, while many artists save their most popular songs_ for last, Young's finale was his personal favorite, the title cut off his least commer­cially successful album, "Tonight's the Night." . 
I liked the concert, but not for any reasons I thought I might have beforehand. 
One almost expects to walk in and hear .Neil Young play all of his' old Buffalo Springfield, CSNY, Stills-Young, or Crazy Horse material. One· expects him to satiate a nostalgic impulse. But, of course, fulfillip.g a crowd's nostalgic impulse has nothing to do with artistry, and therefore Young scores points for leading us not into commercial temptation. 
Neil Young is not Mick Jagger--he doesn't give you hips and screams. Neil Young is not Yes--he doesn't give you lights. And Neil Young is not Bruce Springsteen--he doesn't demand that you get involved. Neil Young is not, in fact, and end at all--he is a means. Neil Young is transportation. He transports us back to a tinie and place, he transports us to a scene, a very elaborate, personal scene, like an artist in the medium of oil and canvas. He defjescomparison to other rock stars who grew out of a different mold to ftll a different need in a different time. Young is almost 40 now, and of an era, a culture, of singers and writers who have either faded away or burned out. Duane Allman ODed. So did Janis Joplin. Phil Ochs hung himself. Jimmy Hendrix, whose face appeared on a button pinned to Young's faded T-shirt, is also dead of an overdose. Neil Young is a writer and performer out of the "socially aware" coffee Shops of the late sixties and the counter culture of the early seventies. His message is, of course, universal, but his music is the progeny of a time when people sat down to Hsten to music rather than react to it. They came to appreciate the sad-eyed insights Young was able to bring to his brand of folk-rock. 
And if, in fact, we can take him at his word, Young does not plan to go gentle into that good night. The times are different now than when he started out. Much of a Neil Young concert crowd is composed today of people who have never heard of Buffalo Springfield, people who never shared the rage and disillusionment of the times, people who can only identify Kent State as a good lib~ral arts school in northern Ohio. Maybe the air of uncer­tainty that hung over the ACC is a good sign, a sign that Neil Young wiii still be Neil Young, and that he will not sell out to the·market demands of a 1978 crowd that can't relate to the rage and the pity and the scorn in his m~sic. One can only hope that he does not "bum out." But more importantly, we have his word that, unlike the old soldier, he wiii not "fade away." 
Mark Rust 

the observer Tuesdoly, October 17, 1978
6 
collegiate crossword 
Bayh accused of involvement in Korean buying scandal 
WASHINGTON (AP) -The in connection with payments to The committee said in a final Senate ethics committee said yes­Bayh and two former senators and report that Humphrey's campaign terday it found "substantial credi­whether Bayh or an aide broke the and the late Sen. John L. ble evidence" that either Sen. law by taking $1,000 in the Capitol. McClellan, D-Ark., broke laws by Birch Bayh or one of his aides failing to report 1972 contributions.
A 1948 law, apparently never 
broke the law in the Korean But it said the statue of limitations
enforced, prohibits congressmen
influence-buying scandal and of those violations ran out in 1975,
from accepting contributions on 
asked the Justice Department to meaning they cannot now be
federal property. Bayh has denied 
consider prosecution. prosecuted.
he took the money in the Capitol. The committee said it found
However, the committee also The committee said it is turningsaid it found no evidence that South over possible "perjurious testi­"substantial credible evidence" Korean gifts to senators ever that either Bayh or an aide, Jason
mony" in connection with alleged succeeded in influencing a single payments made or arranged by Berman, took $1,000 from a lobbyist friend of Park's during a
senator. One member of the Korean rice dealer Tongsun Park to 
meeting in the Capitol on Oct. 8,

committee said the report Bayh, D-Ind.; former Sen. Jack "exonerates members of the 1974.
Miller, R-Iowa; and Sen. Hubert H. Senate from ·any wrongdoing·· in Humphrey's 1972 presidential It said Park testified he personal­the scandal. campaign. ly contributed $1,500 to $1,800 to 
Bayh's campaign, possibly at the

The ethics committee in its final The committee said Park gave 
same meeting before Bayh arrived. 

report said it is asking the Justice Humphrey's campaign at least Department to determine whether $5,000 but said there is no evidence "H either contribution was re­perjury charges would be justified Humphrey knew about it. 
.., .................. 




ceived at that meeting, then a 
crime was committed," the com­
mittee said . 
"Moreover, if Mr. Park's contri­bution was accepted, then a second crime may have been committed because the contribution was not 
45 Suffering one 10 "Best Director" of

ACROSS
publicly reported,'' the committee 48 Ivy League city 1960 (2 wds.) report said. 1 Aide (abbr.) . 52 Potato pancake 11 Word in football 5 Pack in tightly 54 Certain hobbyist position
Bayh and Berman denied either 9 Circle parts 57 Hautboys 12 March 15of them got any money from Park 14 Thin strip of wood sa Made track~ 13 Suffixes for cash 

and said the $1,000 was legally 15 General Bradley 59 Will------wisp and cloth 
received through the mail and not 16 ----la Cite, Paris 60 Subatomic particles 21 "----Be Good" 
17 Tropical tree 61 Famed Italian 25 Soviet riverin Bayh's Capitol office. 
18 Kind of China family 27 Like a thesis 
19 Bid 62 Warner Oland role 28 "So long!" 
20 Gripe 63 Perceive 30 Fellow 
22 Hair lock 64 Mr. Martin 31 "----and Lovers"
Interested in 23 "----17," Holden 65 Daily Planet 32 Prepare coffee 
film reporter 33 Yours: Fr. 
24 German steel city 34 Canadian city
donating tickets? 

26 Perfume, e.g. DOWN 38 Fairy tale 29 Kin of Ph.D.'s be!finning32 Like poorly-cooked 1 Templeton and 42 LocaleThe eighth grade students of spaghetti Guinness 45 Loser to RutherfordSacred Heart School, from 
35 Ne1son ----2 Dutch shoe B. Hayes
Chicago's south side, will be the 

36 "-Silver, away!" 3 Small aperture 47 Novelist Hennann guests of Badin Hall for the Notre 37 Coup d'----4 What happens during Dame-Tennessee football game on 38 Willow a mystery (3 wds.) 49 ----drop of a hat Nov. 11. Students interested in 39 Mr. Pavlov 5 Trinidad's neighbor 50 Cagney role 
40 ----Hashana 6 Mine: Fr. 51 Negative contractiondo.nating their student tickets for 41 -----do-well 7 ----'s Chinese 52 Cuts offthis game should contact Ellen 
42 Dance routines Theatre 53 ----' s Irish Rose Dorney at 6922, Mary Ryan at 43 Baseball hall-of-8 Claimants to a 55 River in =ranee 3619, or Layne Salazar at 6923 as farner Cuyler throne 56 "-Smile Be Your 
soon as possible. 

44 Corrosive 9 Violent displays ljtbrella...• 
SMC prepares for College Bowl 
by Jeaa Powley They will then have from Nov. 1-6 regional competition will be held iii 
Saint Mary's Editor to train with their coach. Actual. March. 
competition in either Carrol Hall or At that time, Saint Mary's will.;; 
"College Bowl," the academic the Little Theatre will take place competing with other schools from ·competition program sponsored between Nov. 7 and 19. It will be a Michigan. Indiana, Ulinois and each year by the Association of double elimination competition, Wisconsir:. The National competi­College Unions International Laverty said. tion which is televised will be held (ACUI), is coming to Saint Mary's. in April.
The representative for Saint
The rollege has decided to partici­Mary's in the regional competition Registration forms for the com­pate in the competition this year. 

will be the winning intramural petition are now available inl.aver­Referred to as the " varsity sp(Jri team, plus four alternates. The ty's office, 168 LeMans. 
of the mind," College Bowl 
involves two teams o'four students 

competing to answer questions on DOONESBURY 
subjects ranging from algebra to 
zoology. The emphasis, however,is 
on the liberal arts. 
The initial step in choosing a. 
team to represent SaintMary's is for 
students to form their own four­
person teams and sign-up in the 
office of Director of Student 
Activities Mary Laverty. The teams must also choose Saint Mary's faculty or administration member to coach them. 
"We want stuoents to join m and­get a lot of well-rounded teams competing. Quick recall is the important thing. The ideal team would be one English major, one science major, one music or art major and one other major, maybe history," Laverty explained. 
Teams must sign-up by Oct. 31. 



alSCINWINT: IN 7H£ fJJAKC OF &lt'P&11VIV, A 1EIAIPOLL J<af4L5 7HifT 9.3% OF TH/3 PU8UC NOW Ff£L. THitT PRES!IJ8/TCA/lJER. 15 00­IN6 AN £XC£I.J.£NT JrXJ RGHTIN6 !NRATION. 
' 
by Garry Trudeau 
FOR. CA/?JER, 51/aESS IS 5/JEET. H/5 5TANOIN6 IA/fTH r:rN6RES5 JIM)I47H 7JE AMERICAN PECf7tE HA5 NEVB?. 8£EN CNJ 
AIQr1£R. (#(){NJ. 
/ 


Tuesday, October 17, 1978 
7
the obsemlt· 

,..------­
NOTICES 

INVITATION Till F8allty _. Stiff If IMin Oanw n C8l1lllly lntlld Ill lllllt Tharnll Tlllr­
-· 1111 lllplbllcln Candldatl fw Can­
.,_tr.n 1bl 3nl District of Indiana, at 
0. Ulllwnlty Club on October 18, 1!78 at 4:31p.m. Nllra Danw Faculty and Stiff for Thomm Clmmitlle­...... Cannaughtlln, Chairman Vladltl Vudarvic, Vice-Chairman 
watch "Fancy Fingers Farias" on the 8:25a.m. WNDU news. Astar is born!!! 
..._.ng a wedding or dance? Music for IIIII spacial occasion. The Dennis Bamber Quartet. 272-8266. 
Typing done in my home. Fast, accurate, reasonable. Close to campus. Phone 272-7866. 
STUDY ABROAD THIS SUMMER? Interested -Contact Dr. A. R. Black SMC-4948. 
Typist will do typing; neat and accurate, 
•t:d:.onable rates, Call: 287-5162. 
Morrissey Loan Fund Student loans $20-$150 1 percent. Due in 30 days, 1 day wait, Lafortune Basement M-F 11:»12:30. 
Student Checks Cashed with SMC-ND 
I.D. card at Mar-Main Pharmacy, 426 N. Miclligan. [Park at McDonald's]. 
LOST AND FOUND 
LOST: 14K Gold serpentine chain bracelet. Call 8803 Christine. 
LOST: High school class ring with Blue sapphire stone. Glad inlaid C.S. on stone. Name on inside of band. 1864. 
LOST: Agold Schaeffer pen with a flower design and an inscription. If found pleasecall Cam, 8905. 
FOUND: Contact lens in case found between Huddle and Music Bldg.Turned into Observer office. Contact Mrs. Popovich to claim. 
LOST: 1) and opal ring; 2) a Nardin HighSchool Ring; 3) gold ring with red, blud and pink stones. Call 8144. 
LOST: Women's Timex watch Thurs. night between LaFortune and ACC gate
10. Gold with blue face. CAll Sarah 6865. 
FOUND: Money on campus last week. Will turn over if day (time), place and amount are identified. Call Badilla at 288-5708 after 5 p.m. 
WANTED 

Needed: 1 or 2 GA Miami tickets. Call 4-1-4556. 
Desperately need Tennessee tickets. Please call 4411 or 5651. 
SNeed Miami tickets$ Call John 272­9354. 
Please help me get 2 to 4 GA tickets for Miami. CAll (283)-1044. Thank you. 
NEEDED: 5tickets for MIAMI Call Dan 1850 or 1775. 
Need MAtiY GA Miami tickets. Bill S. 289-2046 or 232-0550. 
Need ride to Texas for break -will share expenses 7607. 
HELP· Need 2 GA MIAMI tickets!!! Call Mary 4-1-4359. 
WANTED: Two GA tickets for Miami game. Call 2254. 
I'll trade big money for up to 7 GA's for Tennessee. Call Bill 8604 NOW. 
Need GA tix for any home football game. Bruce 3623. 
Need two GA Miami tickets. Call Brendan 272-7674. 
Need 2Miami GA tickets. Call Liz: 7484. 
I need two GA tickets to Miami. Call 277-1494. 
Need Miami GA tickets. Call Mike at 7838. 
NEEDED: Two GA tickets to the Tennessee game· name your price! Call Mark 234-2391. 
Need ride to St. Louis for Oct. Break. Share dr;ving and. expenses. Call Nick 4631. 
Need ride to Minnesota -will .shara eqJenSeS. ~1-Bob 6749. 
Need ride to COLORADO for break..It; going to or through call232-8339 will pay. 
Desperately need ride to Atlanta for Oct! Braak. Can leave after Emil. Will share driving/expenses. Call Tom, 1135. 
S1llk I Ale Is lolld~g far 1R ~ 
cocldall waitnla. Must be dynamic I penonable. Will be IllUded duri Christmas Break. If Interested apply I person between 2-6 p.m. MOM-Fill. . 
OVERSEAS JOBS-Summer/full time. Europe, S. America, Australia, Asia, etc. All fields, $500-1200 monthly, expensespaid, sightseeing. Free info -Write: International Job Center, Sox 44!10-14 Berkeley, CA 94704. 
I need ride east 1-80 to Penn State Exit, Oct. Break, Kevin 283-1652 and 3745. 
ATTENTION! Need ride to Boston for October break. Call Renee, 3848. 
HELP! Idesperately need ride to Texas for break. Will share driving, expenses.CAII8598. 
Need rides to Tuscon or as far west as possible. Mary 4·1-4702. 
Need ride to Philadelphia Oct. break. Please call Susan 4-1-4509. 
WANTED: Two beautiful blonds need ride to Nashvill Tenn. for Oct. break. Call 4·1-4282. 
Need riders to Louisville for Oct. break. Leaving Sat. noon after GRE exarfl. CAll Sue 6971. 
Mom and Dad will pay $$$ for 2 GA Tennessee tix -call John 8656. 
Need GA Tennessee tickets Gall1904. 
Need two GA tickets to Tennessee. Call Tony 6718. 
WANTED: 2 or 4 GA tickets for anyhome football game. Call Mike 7838.· 
Ineed 5 ga Miami tickets [not necessarilyall together). CAll John at 1991. 
Need two tickets (GA) for Miami game.Call Joe 1101. 
Ya'll Help! Need ride to Memphis for break. CAll 7821. 
Need ride to Milwaukee for break. Call Tom. 1530. 
Need ride to Philadelphia Oct. break. Will share expenses. Call Ann 28!H572. 
Wante to go West on 80 for Break. I could use some riders to Iowa, Nebraska or Wyoming. Call Tim 1105. · 
ATTENTION! Need 4 GA tix for Tenn. game. Any priceCall 3848 after 10:30. 
FOR SALE 
Triumph TR-7 1976V2, Factory AM-FM Cassette stereo, air. $3,450. 233-8855. 
6each Boys concert tix. Main floor, 4th row. Mike 3187. 
Casperson's Book Shop open Wed., Sat., Sun. 9-7. 50,000 used books. Ageneralshop. 1303 Buchanan Road, Niles, 683-2888. 
1973 Porsche 914. New Micheliils, FM, 
2.0 litre with appearance group, excellent
condition, 25,000 mi. $3900. 272-3558 
(after 5 p.m.) 
PERSONALS 
Cindy Lou was enjoying her cake, One that her friends in Lyons did bake. Upon turning nineteen,
All N D heard a sceam 
For Lou ended up in the lake. 
HAIR CUT $5, STYLE CUT* AIR DRY $7 If Stacy's, 3421 Mishawaka Avenue, South Bend. Phone 289-8822 ask for 
Stacy. DC Juniors-
Nawslattersand Senior Trip Surveys in Lafortune. Deposit surveys in box by Wednesday. _W_A_N_T_E_T_D_L_E_A_R_N_T_O_B_O_X_?_E_NJ_O_Y-~ 
AN EXCITING SPORT-BOXING ROOM IN ACC MON-FRI 3:30-6:30 BRING A. 
FRIEND. 
ATTENTION ND-SMC COMMUNITY 
The Annual St. Nick's Bazaar is less than two months away! People are needed to sponsor booths. If interested call Betz at 4-$-5148. 
Who were those young "ladies" and "gentlemen" seen crawling through a first-floor window at BP Saturday nightafter parietals?? 
Well, we saw you!!! 
Zoro &Co.. 
Farley Footballers, Thanks for a great season. We're proud of you. You're 11 in our hearts. Griff, Tim, Chris 

Tony Pace 
NBAwest 
[continued fnHa page 8] 
MIDWEST 
Deav• N.gea-Denver management made forward David TJwmpsoo oee tfthe dcbest ~~ iD the league last spring during playoff time. Thompson wU'bothered by tbe presau of the'coatract aitd Jfid no~ perform well in playoff competition. Hopefully, he'll return to form tbia season. · George McGinnis will play at forward. He is much better suited to Thompson'a..game than~ was to Julius Erving's game. McGinnis sh6uld help this club in the playoffs. If Thompson' switches ·to guardfull time, rookie Rod Griffin· and second year man Anthony Roberts will fill the other forwar-d· soot. 
\)an Issei is a steady, if unspectacular, center. Issei's career scorittg average is 24.7 points per Jlillne. '\be 1\fuggets regret giving away Marvin Webster before last season. · Slated for backcourt duty are Charlie Scott, picked up from the Los Angeles Lakers, aad Bobby Wilkerson. 
The Nuggets will be a better team with McGinnis and they should win their clivision. How long ~y ...Uilast in the playoffs is another question. 
Chicago Bulls -The Bulls have the most dependable center in the game•. Artis Gilmore haS not' missed a game since he was in high school. His consecutive game streak is now approaching 600. Gilmore did not have the supporting cast he needed last season, but he may have it this year. 
New coach Larry Costello is installing a running offense. That's quite a switch from the old,. patemed style of play of the Bulls. 
Scott May and Mickey Johnson are the Bull forwards. May has been hampered by injuries in his .first two seasons. Johnson came out of nowhere to average 17 and 18 points per game in his last tow years. 
Norm Van Lier has been waived. That-leaves Wilbur Holland, John Mengelt, and Tate Armstrong in the backcourt. Rookie Reggie Theus, a 6-6% swingman, should be able to help out. Theus will fit Costello's running game because he comes from Jerry Tarkanian's Runnin' Rebels at Los Vegas. 
Under Costello, the Bulls should reach the playoffs in 1979. 
MDwaakee Bucks -If they only had a center. John Gianelli is a journeyman and Kent Benson has yet to show any of his collegiate prowess. If either of them play well, however, look out!! The rest of this team is young and ready to go places. 
Marques Johnson and Dave.Meyers are two fine forwards. Johnson broke into the NBA with a bang. He averaged 19.5 points per game and was in double figures with rebounds. He should be the next basketball superstar. Meyers is a very aggressive player who h~s had more than his share of injuries. If he can stay injury free, the Bucks should flourish. 
Quinn Buckner and Brian Winters are the Buck guards. Buckner is a good playmaker and defender, but he can't shoot. Winters is a fine outside shooter. Junior Bridgeman and Lloyd Walton are in reserve. 
This team is one of the youngest in the NBA. If the Gianelli/Denson center combination comes through, the Bucks will be hard to beat. 
Indiana Pacers-Coach and G..M. Bobby Leonard changed personnel often in 1977, but the Pacers seem to be a better team because of it. James Edwards will be a good center after he Jogs some more game experience. He averaged 15.2 points per game in his debut. 
Alex English, signed as a free agent, will be at one forward and Mike Bantom will be the other. English is untested; Bantom is a steady player. Top draft pick Rick Robey will help out on the front line: 
Ricky Sobers is the backcourt leader. He proved he should start in the NBA after the Pacers acquired him from the Phoenix Suns. Johnny Davis, acquired from Portland, should be his running mate. 
The Pacers are another young club in this division. Unlike the Bucks however, they still need time to develop. 
Kansas City Kings-The Kings have some young talent, notably Richard Washington, OtisBirdsong rookie Phil Ford and Scott Wedman. But they lack a dominant center and there is little team depth. Rookie Ford and second year man Birdsong could become the best guard tandem in the league with 
some experience. Wedman is a good forward, as is Washington, when he puts his heart in the game. Washington could be a super player if he exerted himself. · 
K.C.'s problem is at center. Sam Lacey has been the King center since the team moved from Cincinnati. Tom Burleson. in his second year with the Kings, is very big but also very slow. He has not lived up to the promise he s~owed while at North Carolina State. 
The Kings arc a good four man team, if they could only come up with a center. 
Soccer team defeats Xavier 
------------•If; complete stop, allowed the For sale, 71 VW Convertible, defenders to pass him, and then $900, 256-0048 after 6. drilled a low shot into the net. ------------,~' The Irish play in the second half 
[continued from page 8] game vs. Indtana next Sunday. Terry Finnegan closed out the first half scoring with a good individual effort. Taking the ball on a charge, Finnegan came to a 
, was not as strong, but luck seemed to be in their favor. It was learned :after the game that the NCAA representatives decided to get out .of the cold arid left after the first 
· 

half, apparently already happy witb' what they had seen on the field. , Only twenty-nine seconds into 'the first half, Xavier destroyed 
•Notre Dame's hope for a shutout on a strange play. Xavrcr lofted a high kick in front of the Irish net, and Bob Ritgcr, who replaced Cullathcr in the Irish goal, tried to field the ball on the first bounce. The bounce went over his head, as he 
was only able to fingertip the_ ball, 
To the Curly Headed 8--d, 
"Nice game." Your performance thii season was unparelled. We've nevet seen anything like it! 
Hey Chicago-NO people! Go to Mother's (on Division West of State Street) on Wed., Oct. 25 after 8 
p.m. Break up your break and partyhardy! 
Deb, Has your mom convinced you to cook the spaghetti dinner for us yet? 
Coach Petro and Varsity Tennis Team: 
Congratulations State Champs! 
Roberta 
~ ~-­
_ .........____ 

;and aften scuft.. c in front of the Mike Mai closed out the scoring, net, Tom Stevens put the loose ball as he found the net on a high drive into the net for Xavier. into the upper right hand corner. 
Bill Wetterer got the goal back a The final home game for the Irish few minutes later, as he launched a before break will be this Wednes­25 yard shot over the goalie into the day as they take on Morton College net. at 8 p.m. on Cartier Field. 
JAM & NOTRE DAME STUDENT UNION PROUDLY PRESENT: 
I=-OR EIGH I£R 
Saturday, November 11, 8 PM NOTRE DAME A.C.C. Tickets: $8.50 & $7.50 
Tickets available at the 
A.C.C. Box Office and the Student Union Ticket Office 
On sale Wednesday, Oct. 18, at· 9am 
-

8 
the Observer Tuesday, October 17, 1978 
-Irish down Goshen; raise record to .13-1-1 

by Mark Perry Assistant Sports Editor and Keith Connor Sports Writer 

Playing in conditions more suit­able for hockey, the Notre Dapte soccer team easily defeated Bethel College, 8-1, on the icy turf of Cartier Field yesterday, boosting their record to 13-1-1. 
Coach Rich Hunter started his young, but talented, second string­ers on the front line, and they played well, giving the regular starters a 4-0 halftime lead. 
Bill Ralph opened the scoring for the Irish, as he took a pass from Bill Murphy 30 yards from the net, and then proceeded to move past all the defenders and drive the ball past the unprotected goaltender into the . right side of the net. 
With about six minutes expired, Sami Kahale scored his first goal for Notre Dame. Kahale took a pass from Murphy, and used his right foot to boot the ball into the net. 
The Irish added to their lead on a penalty kick. Ralph was tripped f;·om behind after taking a perfect pass from Bill Murphy and advan­cing into the penalty area. Jim Sabitus tallied on the kick, driving the ball high into the right hand 
corner of the net. 

Ralph added his second goal of the game on a poor defensive play by Bethel. Their fullback tried to tap the ball back to their goaltender so that he could field the ball and kick it, but the tap became a shot on goal. The Bethel keeper made a great save on his own player's shot, but Ralph was there to put the loose ball into the net. 
The starters came back at the start of the second half, and quickly added to the Notre Dame lead with three goals early in the half. 
Terry Finnegan scored first, as he took a pass from Kevin Lovejoy on a breakaway, moved to the left side and lined a low shot into the opposite corner of the net. 
Roman Klos scored next, as he took the ball about ten yards inside the left sideline and boomed the But the Bethel forward got the ballball past the surprised goaltender. 
first, forcing Milligan to make aLovejoy continued to add to his diving stop, and Doug Snyder wasteam-leading total of twenty-three there for the visitors to spoil theg'oals, as he took a pass from Klos Irish shutout.
in front of the net, arid scored on a Terry Finnegan scored his sec­quick shot. 
ond goal of the game, unassisted,Bethel scored their only goal to close out the scoring for Notreafter a high kick eluded the Notre Dame on this wintry evening. 
Dame defenders. Fullback Randy Wittry tried to knock the ball to Irish dump Xavier 7-1 goalkeeper John Milligan, who had In Friday night's action, Notre replaced Bob Ritger at .the half. Dame used a quick scoring out-
Tony Pace 
NBA West 
The Western conference of The National Basketball Association has produced some fine teams in the past few seasons. The Western division is the most balanced group in the league. Any one of five teams could win that division. The Midwest is dominated by the Denver Nuggets, but the Chicago Bulls and Milwaukee Bucks have both improved and could make a run at that division title. Here's a rundown of the NBA's western conference: 
Pacmc 

I.Gs Angeles Lakers-Any team with a healthy Kareem Abdui-Jabaar will be in contention for the championship if there are any other decent players on the team. Abdul-Jabbar's supporting cast in 
L.A. is super and the Lakers should have a very productive season. 
Former Notre Dame star Adrian Dantley and Jamaal Wilkes are the Laker forwards. Both are all-star caliber players, although Wilkes did have an off-season in '77. Kenny Carr, who went hardship only to wallow on the Laker bench, could develop with playing time. 
Norm Nixon had a super rookie season, but didn't receive the publicity that o~her first year men did. He scored almost 14 points per game and was fourth in the league in assists. Ron Boone was acquired from Kansas City in the off-season to complement Nixon at guard. Brad Davis and Lou Hudson both help out in the backcourt. 
The Lakers arc ready to challenge for the championship this season. They have a solid starting lineup. they have good bench strength. and they have Abdui-Jabbar! A few breaks and they could go all the way. 
Phoenix Suns -The Suns have been up and down over the past few years, this figures to be an up year. 
Phoenix's front line of Alvan Adams, Walter Davis, and Garfield Heard matches up favorably with any front three in the NBA. Adams is a good passer and scorer. He plays sound. if not daring defense. Davis is a complete ballplayer. He was one of the best three rookies in the NBA last year. Heard is the workman on the front line. His game is inside and he geh plenty of room to maneuver. 
Paul Westphal is one of the best two or three guards in the league. Westphal ·can do almost anything that needs to be done on the hardwood. Ron Lee is not a good outside shooter, but hf" is solid in all the other phases of the game. Don Buse is a super-sub. 
The Suns are a good team. They play very well together. They will have to fight for everythitlg they get in this division but their teamwork should pull them through. Portland Trailblazers-Poor Portland. Their ch~mpionship team was so good. now they are fading quickly. 
Bill Walton may or may not be back. If he is, Portland has a chc.nce to win the division. If not, they'll have to fight for whatever they can get. Maarice Lucas, another key Trailblazer, i.; also out for the first few weeks of the season with au injury. 
On the bright side, Larry Steele, BOb Gross, Lloyd Neal and Dave Twardzik are all returning to health and should be able to play up h> par. Backup center Tom Owens can get the job done. Guard Lionel Hollins is a steady performer. 
Portland also has two premier rookies in Mychal Thompson, the overall top pick m the college draft, and Ron !Jrewer,perhaps the best guard in the country last season. If Brewer and Thompson perform well, and Lucas returns quickly, the Blazers, even without Walton. will be a good club. Seattle Supersonics-The Sonics made it to the NBA finals in 1978, but it mav be a while before they return. 
Marvin Webster has been lost to New York an~ the Sonics are without a dominating center. Tom Lagarde, picked up from Denver, Lonnie Shelton, part of the Knicks compensation for Webster, or foward Jack Sikma could all move into the center. Even if these players perform well, the Sonics will miss Webster. 
If S1kma moves to center, Wally Walker, John Johnson, Paul Silas, and Shelton will all see action at forward• Sikma's shift would hurt this area. · The Sonic~ guards are Freddie Brown and Dennis Johnson. Downtown Brown is a s1•per scorer. Johnson is a fine defend«"r. He all but shutout David Thompson in last year's playoffs. Golden State Warrlon. Rick Barry is gone and Bill Walton may never get there. And the Warriors may have a long season. · 
Actually, the Warriors may benefit from Barry's defection, via free agency, to Houston because they received John Lucas in return. Lucas will fit in well with fellow g·uud Phil Smith. Also slated for duty in the backcourt is rookie R~y Townsend from UCLA. 
In the forecourt the Warriors have E.C. Coleman and Sonnv Parker as tentative starters at forward, with Robert Parish and Cliff Ray splitting time at center. There will not be many points scored from this unit. 
Barry's loss will be felt. The Warriors will have to rely on their guards to score. This strategy doesn't work in the NBA. ' 
San Diego -lrv levin never should have left Boston. This team will be the worst in the league. The Clippers have rookie Freeman Williams. Kevin Kunnert and Sidny Wilks along with all-star guard Randy Smith. but that'' ju~t not enough to compete in the NBA. {condnued on page 7 
burst in the first half to carry them line drive into the upper right hand to an easy victory over Xavier corner from over 30 yards out. University, 7-I. before a good At 22:46, Finnegan and Lovejoy crowd at Cartier. teamed up again for the fourth Irish 
The game had added signifi­goal in the half. Finnegan took the cance for the Irish, since some of . ball about twenty yards in front of the people in that crowd were the net, and after some fancy scouts from the NCAA tournament footwork, took a hard shot on goal. committee. Last year the Irish The Xavier goalie made the save, tournament hopes . were dimmed but bobbled the ball, and Lovejoy when they turned in a less than was there to put the loose ball into average performance in a game the net and complete his hattrick. scouted by the NCAA. · The Irish defense did not have 
But this year the Irish turned in the evening off, in spite of the an impressive performance. as one-sided score. Goalie Brian fantastic passing in the first twenty Cullather met the challenge of a minutes of the first half led to a five Xavier forward, as he made a goal flurry. . split-second save on a point blank 
Terry· Finnegan opened the shot. Right before the end of the scoring for Notre Dame, as he took half, Cullather went out to pick up a pass from Jim Sabitus inside the the ball in front of the net, and was pcnalt~· area. and put a shot past met by an Xavier forward, who the Xavier goaltender into the tripped over Cullather right after upper right hand corner. he scooped up the ball. Cullather 
Finnegan also contributed on the sustained a bruised left shoulder, second Irish goal. as Kevin lovejoy and sat out the second half. He took his chip and converted it into also missed last night's game, but a goal at the 14:10 mark. is expected back in time for the 
Lo\'ejoy scored again a few (continued on page 7]minute' later. as he blasted a high 
Hockey expo today 
by Brian Beglane Sports Writer 
The familiar chill that invades the Notre Dame campus with the coming of fall hit the ACC Field­house three weeks ago when the sound of slapshots, checks into the boards, and skates cutting across the ice became commonplace as the Irish hockey team took to the ice in preparation for the 1978-79 cam­paign. 
Now after three weeks of prepa­ration Irish fans will get their first formal look at this year's young and exciting team with the third annual Notre Dame Hockey Expo tonight at 7:30 at the ACC ice rink. 
"The purpose of our expo is to introduce the game to the new fans and explain it more clearly to those who have not seen· the sport that much," notes Irish Head Coach 
.Lefty Smith. "We are very anxious to get as much support from the student body as we can this year, and tonight is the perfect opportunity for students not fami­liar with the game to develop a working knowledge of it and enjoy themselves more at games during the season" 
The night will start off with Coach Smith introducing each play­er. A demonstration by the team of the basic plays and strategy in­volved with the game will follow. Then the team will put these skills to work with a scrimmage during which Smith will describe the development of the play. 
"Hockey can be a very exciting 
sport to watch once you learn the 
game, and because Notre Dame 
gets students from all over the 
country, some are not familiar with 
it," explains Smith. "Support 
from our student body can be su,ch 
an important factor and can make 
our home ice a great advantage to 
us, so we are hoping for a good 
turnout tonight." 
Introduction of the players will be a very big part of the Expo tonight, b~"cause there are many new faces on this year's team. Graduation claimed the top five scorers, two top defensemen and both goaltenders from an injury­riddled club that lost to Denver in the first round of the WCHA playoffs last March. Despite these losses and the fact that only one experienced senior returns, Smith still feels that hits year's group of returnees and freshman skaters will make the Irish a competitive club in the WCHA. 
"Although we.lost some quality people and both out goaltenders for the last four seasons, I think we can fill those gaps. We were hard hit by injuries last year and, conse­quently, many young players were forced to step in and do the job," notes Smith. "The experience they gained will be a big help this year." 
"I look for the team to improve week by week so that by midseason I hope for us to be a very fine club. It will take a while for· the new players to get adjusted to the WCHA but they have been doing very well so far. The attitude this team has shown has been fantastic, and with our returnees and fresh­men I see no reason for us to be anything but optimistic." 
Pick up hockey 
tickets this week 
Students who purchased season tickets for Notre Dame hockey team can pick them up today, wednes­day, or Thursday from 9 a.m. to 4 
p.m. (including the noon hour ) at the box office on the second floor of the Athletic and Convocation Cen­ter. Tickets will be issued on a first come-firs serve basis, and each student may present a maximum of two ID's when picking up tickets. 










