-
Seven students arrested for party 


by Jim Coyne Staff Reporter 
Seven Notre Dame students ar­rested at an off-campus party last Friday evening will pay the penalty enforced by the State of Indiana and no further punitive action will be taken by the University, accord­ing to ND Dean of Students James Roemer. 
The arrests took place at a party 
held at 823 N. Notre Dame Avenue. Those arrested were: Stephen Bitter and Bruce Martin, both of 
823 N. Notre Dame, on charges of selling without a permit; and housemates James Stephens, Gre­gory Swita, Thomas Byrne, John O'Connell, and Patrick Kehough on charges of conducting unautho­rized dealings. 
Stephens said that around 10 
p.m. two undercover policemen came to the party where Martin and Bitter were collecting money. These two policemen paid admis­sion to the party. A short time later, uniformed policemen arrived on the scene and asked Martin and 



server 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's Vol. XII, No. 121 "Thursday, April 20, 1978 

Bitter what they were collecting for. 
When told it was for the party that was taking place in the back yard, the policemen asked those . dispensing the beer if anyone had a bartending license or if they had any carding facilities. Each of the seven were than charged with a $50 bond, taken to the police station, and booked. 
Stephens said that Martin and Bitter were actually charged with "selling cups", while the others were charged with "dealing with a prohibitive substance." He added that it could have been worse if they had been "charged with contributing to the deliquency of a minor." 
The seven students are now waiting for their hearing, which will be held on Wednesday. According to Stephens, the group has talked with lawyer Richard Hunter about the possibility of his representing them at the trial. 
Roemer said he knows that there have been similar problems in the neighborhood. He said that from now on he will advise Notre Dame Security to bring all public adver­tisements concerning parties to him. He will in turn notify the Northeast Neighborhood Council, so that they will be aware of the partv, he added. 

"I'm not in any sympathetic position with the seven students," he stated. They allegedly broke the law and if convicted, will have to pay the price, according to Roemer. 
He also said that the University will not intercede on behalf of the students. 
'Vandals will make restitutions': Roemer 
by Rosemary Mills Editorial Editor 
On March 31, two male students damaged several cars in the D-2 west parking lot, according to James Roemer, ND dean of stu­dents. Roemer announced yester­day that the pair will make restitu­tion for the damages. Students who wish to be reimbursed should contact his office. 
The incident took place at ap­proximately 3 a.m. Roemer related that two students left the Library bar and drove to the D-2 parking lot. The pair then ran through the lost to campus, breaking car anten­nas and damaging windshield wipers en route. 
Unknown to them, however, a third student saw what Roemer called in legal terms "vandalism and malicious trespassing." After following the two, he caught up to them in from of the ND post office. 
Roemer said the student con­fronted them "in rather strong terms," and fistfight broke out. The fight attracted the attention of security stationed at the main gate. Security stopped the fight and learned of the damage. 
A quick investigation revealed some damage and the case was sent to Roemer. "Both students admitted their actions,'' Roemer stated. "They also admitted to being under the influence and said they would not have done it otherwise.'' 
"Number one is that they will have to make restitution," Roemer emphasized. 
He asked that students whose cars were damaged call his office at 6144 within the next five days. They should state where the car was parked and give an estimate of the damage. "If possible," Roemer added, "they should send a letter." 
The two students will also have some sanction imposed on them, according to Roemer. But he has not yet decided exactly what this will be. 
Roemer clarified the absence of University responsibility for stu­dent cars, saying "there is no way we can guarantee" protection. The lights around some parking lots, the fences and the patrol by security are all means taken by the university to diminish crime, he said. 
"I'm convinced most of the damage is done by other stu­dents," Roemer stated, "and I just 
[Continued on page 2] 


That's right folks, An Tostal is just around the corner! [Photo by Ken McAlpine] 

by 11atrick O'Leary 
The election of student represen­tatives to the Campus Life Council was finalized last Tuesday night in LaFortune. 
Representing the North Quad on the council next year will be Chip Walter, vice president of Flanner, and Curtis 'Y'Iesslen, vice-president of Grace, who won the run-off election last Tuesday. Mary Ryan and Ed Zier, vice-presidents of Badin and Morrissey, will repre­sent the South Quad. The four were elected by the outgoing representatives. 
In addition to four hall vice­presidents. the Campus Life Coun­cil is composed of three hall rectors from each quad, two members of the Faculty Senate, the student body president, and one represen­tative each from the Student Union and HPC. As of yet, the people who will fill the remaining positions have not been determined. 
The Council, which was created by the Board of Trustees last October, meets weekly and is supposed to "act as a forum where faculty, administrative, and stu­dent representatives can discuss campus life and make recommen­dations to the vice-president for Student Affairs," Andy McKenna, student body president com­mented. 
"At every third meeting," McKenna added, "three exofficio members, another faculty mem­ber, the vice-president for Student Affairs, and the dean of students­sit in to consider immediate pro­blems and suggestions the Council might have." 

During the two weeks in be­tween formal meetings, the two groups meet separately. "This procedure,'' McKenna said, "gives the regular members a little more freedom to discuss issues more openly without being sty­mied." 
The first Council meeting is scheduled for next Wednesday, by which time the other members will have been chosen. An issue which McKenna feels will predominated the upcoming agenda is the Univer­sity's fire regulation policy, specifi­cally the policy on lofts. 
"We want to understand the University's position more clear­ly," McKenna commented, "and try to develop a more practical loft policy without sacrificing fire safety on campus." 
2._ the observer 

,..News Briefs_____ 
1::::============================ National 
Editors fight eviction order 
BOSTON, MA--Editors of the weekly student newpaper at Boston 
College, a Roman Catholic school, say they will fight an order that 
the paper move off campus because it published advertisements for 
abortion clinics. Paul McPartland, editor of The Heights, said 
moving from campus would hurt the paper's ability to do its job. 
The Heights was told to move by Kevin P.Duffy, the college's vice­
president for student affairs, who said the school must "assure that 
any independent corporation which desires the convenience of 
leasing space in college quarters respect the basic values of the 
college.'' 
Amba_ftsador to be named 
WASHINGTON--President Carter will nominate Nancy Ostrander of Indianapolis to be ambassador to the Republic of Surinam, he said yesterday. Ostraner, 52, personnel counselor for the senior officer division in the State Department's personnel bureau, would replace J. Owen Zurhellen Jr., who resigned. Ostrander entered the foreign service in 1947. 
Weather 
Cloudy, windy and cold today with a 30 percent chance of showers and highs low to mid 40s. Partial clearing tonight with lows upper 20s to low 30s. Partly sunny tomorrow with highs low to mid 40s. 
rOn Campus Today_~ 
3:15pm 
4:30pm 
4:30pm 
7 pm 
7:15pm 8pm 
8 pm 
8 pm 
8 pm 
8:15pm 
career workshop, "decision making and values clarification," pat mccormick, 161 lemans, smc, sponsored by career development. 
lecture, "human rights in south korea," rev. james sinnott, former maryknoll missionary in south korea, area studies reading room, 1201 mem. lib. sponsored by amnesty international. 
ward phillips lecture series, "hoyle's whist: card games and other bifocal series," prof. ronald paulson, mem. lib. aud. 
concert, "the sound of brass," the notre dame brass quintet, howard hall, followed by short reception, sponsored by howard hall. 
concert, lettermen, ace, $2.50 & $1.50. tickets on sale at the notre dame credit union. 
lecture, "the politics of treadmill britian since 1951," dr. m.a. fitzsimons, nd. galvin aud., sponsored by history dept. 
concert, "an evening at the opera," little theatre, smc, music dept. workshop, no charge. 
nd/smc theatre, "a man for all seasons," by robert bolt, cce aud., call 284-4176 for tickets. 
student players production, "come blow your horn," by neil simon, sponsored by the student union, basement of Iafortune, $1. 
recital, mary ann mattaliano, pianist, crowley recital hall, sponsored by music dept. 
'One Earth Week' ends with International Festival 
by Valerle Stefani 
The ninth annual "One Earth Week," sponsored by the Interna­tional Student Organization {ISO) of Notre Dame concluded last Saturday evening with the "Inter­national Festival," an entertain­ment program that featured music and folk dancing from the repre­sentative countries. 
Countries represented included India,, France, Austria, the Philip­pines, China, the United States, and Latin America. Middle East­ern countries were also included for the first time this year. 
"It was the first time that the Arab countries and the Islamic Association of Michiana participat­ed in the festival," explained Betty Fitterling, secretary to Daniel O'Neil, director of International Student Affairs. 
The week long celebration also featured lectures, films, and the "One Earth Marketplace," a dis­play and sale of imported hand­crafts from around the world. Coordinators of the program stated 
that  attendance  at  the  events  
increased  this  year,  particularly  
stud~P! Jl.!te_p_dil!l!;~,_  ..  

"There was a good turnout at the programs during the week and there was a capacity crowd at Washington Hall for the Festival Saturday evening,'' Fitterling said. 
"One Earth Week" was original­ly designed as a way to thank the host families from the international students. It has since come to include active participation by both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students. 
The Chairman of the Week was Monica Echavarria, president of the ISO. Other chairmen include Gabriel Shakkour, for the Festival; Patricia Leon, publicity; Henri Van Tichelen, films and lectures; and Carlos Araujo, for the Marketplace. 
Rourke O'Brien also helped in planning and directing the Market­place. 
Eiections for next year's officers will be held on Thursday. The first 
event planned next year is the orientation program for new inter­national students in the fall. 
"This year some new programs were institued such as the 'Interna­
tional Get Together,' which was a dinner that featured foods from around the world, that we hope to 
continue next yearJ~· ~ajd ,L_e_O!l~ -· ··­
American Scene Series 

Aldous discusses family 
by MoUy WouHe of being offspring ot a sibling-now Senior Staff Reporte1· you may be thinking of being a spouse or parent. You're having to 
Joan Aldous, professor of socio .. make a lot of transitions in a short logy at Notre Dame, discussed how time." time can determine a family's According to Aldous, the decline welfare in her lecture "Of Time of the birthrate of children in the and Family" last night in Saint United States and the increase of Mary's Carroll Hall. Over 200 babies born out of wedlock is due to students and faculty members the conditions of these times, most attended the lecture, which was notably the high unemployment sponsored by SMC's American rate of 16 to 24 year olds. Her Scene Cultural Series. statistics claim one out of 25 
"The essence of time is rhythm children was born illegitimate in and reccurence," Aldous noted. the 1950's, as compared to one out "It becomes more carefully divided of seven in 1975. and husbanded as it becomes more "One reason this is of public plentiful.'' interest is the family income of a 
"The interlocking of individual single mother is SO percent less timetables teally makes for family "than when a husband and wife are time," she continued. "Look at present," Aldous pointed out. your own lives. You have the role • 'And those who have married 
Man for All Seasons opens 
On April 20, 21, and 22, at 8:00  versy, eventually joined forces with  
p.m., the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's  Cromwell to see More to his death.  
Theatre will present Robert Bolt's  A Man For AU Seasons, as well  
celebration of the life of Sir Thomas  as the conference of which it is a  
More, A Man For AU Seasons.  part, is offered as a tribute to this  
The production will be staged in  great man who would not sacrifice  
the Auditorium of the Center for  his principles to save his own life.  
Continuing Education on the Notre  As More said to his accusers, "I  
Dame Campus {note this location  do none harm, I say none harm, I  
change-the production was origi­ think none harm. And if this be not  
nally scheduled in the Law Library  enough to keep a man alive, in  
at Notre Dame). Tickets are $2.50,  good faith I long not to live."  
$2.00 for ND-SMC Students, Facul­ 
ty and Staff. Tickets may be  
obtained by calling 284-4176.  
The production, directed by Reg­ 
inald F. Bain, Chairman of the  
Cooperative Department of Speech  
and Drama, is part of a conference  
to celebrate the SOOth anniversary  
of the birth of Sir Thomas More.  
More became Chancellor of Eng­ 
land at a time of great turmoil.  
King Henry VIII wished to have his  
marriage to Catherine annulled so  
he could marry Anne Boleyn.  
When the Pope denied such action,  
Henry chose to form the Church of  
England, thus separating from the  
Catholic Church. Without going  
against the Law, More refused to  
take part in this matter. He was  
imprisoned and eventually behead­ 
ed over a perjured testimony of  
treason given by Richard Rich, the  
Attorney General for Wales who  

early, younger than 19, as com­pared to those who marry late, have children earlier, husbands with lower-than-median salaries, and a shortened educational car­eer," she remarked. "They're also four times more likely to be divorced. 
•'These same women want their daughters to marry later in life, suggesting the importance in tim­ing,'' Aldous said. 
Aldous also predicted that the students present would have more children than their parents or grandparents, and that 40 to SO percent of them will eventually divorce. 
"The kinds of decisions you make in the next few years are going to have very long-range affects," Aldous warned. 
Aldous, whose book, Famlly Careers, was published last month, has been teaching at Notre Dame for two years. She has the :listinction of being the only female full-professor at Notre Dame. 
Cars vandalized 
[Continued from page 1] don't think there are that many more things we can do. We are not responsible for damages or loss of property in rooms or parking lots." Roemer also strongly commend­ed the student who confronted the vandals. 


eventually became Chancellor. Rich had been a simple scholar. who became influenced by the ruthless 

mUSICAL EVEnT ot theYEAR
Thomas Cromwell. The Duke of Norfolk, who had been a good 
INDIANA UNIVERSITY SOUTH BEND
friend to More! before the contro­
and 
BETHEL COLLEGE
*The Observer 

with the Tonight's Theme: PROFES­
SOUTH BEND SYMPHONIC CHOIR 
SIONALISM 
present
Night Editor: Frank L. Kebe Jr. 

An Epic Grand Opera
Asst. Night Editors: Sherry Mummert, Katie Kerwin 

April 27, 29 and May 2, 4, 6 layout Staff: Bart, Corsaro, 
I.U.S.B. Auditorium • 7:30 pm
'rom Monroe, Jim Rudd, Kathy Connelly 

Tickets $7.50, $5.50, $3.50 Editorial layout: Greg 
D. Ralph Appelman as the Tsar Hedges Features layout: Rosemary Mills Sports layout: Paul Mullaney Typists: Gwen Coleman, 
OPERA IN ENGLISH 
Stacy Weaver, Katie Brehl, Lisa DiValerio {it isn't that 

Order tickets now. Call 237-4102 
dirty lD') Night Controller: Mardi Nevin (sorry Lisa) Day Editors: Mike Lewis, 

A Special Presentation
Kathy Connelly Copy Readers: Bob Varettoni, 

Commemorating
the SOOth Anniversary
Tim Joyce 
Ad layout: Greg Trzupek 

of Thomas More's Birth
Photographer: Ken McAipinP 
a man 
The Observe1r is published Mon­dey through Fridey except during
exem end vaation periods. Tl)e 
for all 
Observer is published by the students of Notre Deme end Seint 
seasons
Mery•s College. Subscriptions
mey be purchesed for S20 per yeer ($10 per semester) from The 
by Robert Bolt 
Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre 
Deme, 1ndien11 46556. Second 

The Center for Continuing Education 
cless postege peld, Notre Deme, 

Auditorium
lndiene, 46556. The Observer is e member of 

All seats $2.50 ($2.00 students) 
the Associated Preu. All repro­duction rlght1 11re re1erved. 
Reservations: 284-4176 
·-------~
.._____ 
April 20 
21 
and 22 8:00PM 
(Please note location dlange) 
~NO 
SMC 
THEATRE 


•
-
-r• i­
.... ,,. '~-;;--~
........._· ...~ 
-...-t -11 
r·1~ ~ 
!i1· 


For more bookstore action turn to page 12. [Photo by Ken 
ments to Schla~eter, Jordan, and

McAlpine] 
Zoromski. "They are all fully 

SMC selects SG commissio.ners 
by Jean Powley Saint Mary's Editor 
Saint Mary's Student Govern­ment has selected eight new CO!lJ· missioners to serve on the Board of Governance for the 78-79 school year. 
Maggie Brydges. a junior Eng­lish major, will be the new judicial commissioner. She will be respon­sible for implementing a selection and training process for the Judici­al Board. She will also oversee the sanctions that are passed by the Board. 
Mary Mullaney was chosen as development commissioner. The sophomore business major will be a member of the Development Com­mittee of the Board of Regents. Mullaney will be responsible for all annual fund raisin~ events. 
The co-commissioners for the Election Committee will be sopho­mores Noreen Bracken and Carol Trousdale. They will take charge of all elections held next year. 
The social commissioner, Christy Jones, junior art major, will be responsible for the coordination of all social activities on and off campus. She will work on major events such as Mardi Gras, An Tostal, and Octoberfest. 
Sophomore Lucia Ann Trigiani 
was selected as public relations commtsstoner. Trigiani will be responsible for sending out press releases and announcements of campus events. 
Junior Marianne Frost was chos­en as the co-exchange commis­sioner. She will work largely with the ND Student Government on co-ex meal tickets, the shuttle bus,and projects such as joint picnics. 
need :resumes in a 
hurry? 

::.: "<': ,.; . ::_., ':'· 
··.u·
..,'"' ~ 
insty·prints 
the wiz of the printingbiz! 
rag bond 
25 -8.5 x 11 only $2.65 203 N. Malt'! Downtown So Bend 289-697 
The new spiritual commissioner murals and co-sponsored activities will be Margaret O'Keefe, sopho­with Notre Dame. more elementary education/sociol­
In their capacity as members of ogy major. O'Keefe will work with the Board of Governance they willCampus Ministry on such projects be available for any projects includ­as Masses, retreats, bible studies, ing those that may range outsideand discussion groups. 
their designated responsibilities of Leslie Murdock, junior chemistry their positions. major, has been named sports Applications were reviewed on commissioner. She will be respon­April 7 with interviews taking place sible for the coordination of intra-on April 9 and 10. 
France allegedly explodes experimental neutron bomb 
PARIS [AP) -A Paris newspaper 
reported yesterday that France has 
exploded an experimental neutron 
bomb at its South Pacific test base, 
but French rese'archers are belie­
ved far behind the United States in 
developing any deployable neutron 
warhead. 
The Foreign and Defense Minist­
ries refused to comment on the 
front-page story in France-Soir , a 
mass-circulation daily, according to 
a longstanding French information 
on nuclear tests at the Mururoa 
Atoll range in the South Pacific. 
Well-informed observers believe 
theFrance-Soir story, which follow­
ed similar reports in the weekly 
magazine I.e Point and two ~est 
German newspapers, stemmed 
from an underground nuclear test 
last month. 
The test, widely reported but 
never officially confirmed, was part of a series of French •efforts to improve its nuclear arsenal. Def­ense Minister Yvon Bourges, asked ·last fall about neutron bomb re­search, said testing covered all kinds of weaponry but declined 


HELP WANTED 
tt I97S -79 a.a~em~: year PAIJ F\.1SrTl.)\JS AVAIJ\Il.E ~fer ,mer, 9aTt1ay rnv~ta<tn 
Cal.k.tn -1422 


Thursday, April 20, 1978 · the observer 
3 

Roemer announces selection of
~ 

1978~·79 Senior Bar managers 
by Rosemary Mills Editorial Editor 
The 1978-79 Senior Bar general manager will be Mike Schlageter, announced James Roemer, ND dean of students. The two other
J ··-,... if'! nill managerial positions will be filled by Ron Zoroomski and Pat Jordan. The three were chosen from over SO applicants, all of whom were interviewed and rated by either Jimmy Dunne, Rob Civitelo, ,or Kenn Ricci, the present managers. Roemer and Ken Milani, associate professor of accountancy and advi­sor, then interviewed the top nine applicants and made the final decision. Dunne said he was happy with the choices and called Schlageter "a smart and really nice guy." "I would like to congratulate the new managers,'' Dunne stated. He added that he would also like to congratulate Roemer and Milani on their decision. "I think the new managers will find Roemer straight forward and easy to work with," Dunne noted. Roemer added his own compli­
specifics. 
The respected newspaper I.e Monde quoted "informed circles" yesterday as saying neutron weap­ons seemed within the grasp of a medium power like France but that research was not far enough along for experiments. 
France-Soir said a " senior milit­
ary officer'' also pointed out that 
France was still three or four years 
away from any deployable neutron 
weapons, but that he reportedly 
described the recent Mururoa test 
as a "full-scale laboratory exper­·iment." 
In Parliament later yesterday, Socialist leader Francois Mitterand demanded that the government reveal whether it had conducted a neutron bomb test. But Premier Raymond Barre sidestepped the issue. 
In Washington. U.S. Defense Department officials said privately they had no information on any neutron bomb testing by the French, and State Department officials said they were skeptical of the reports. 
capable of both the leadership and technical aspects of the job. All the applicants and everyone we inter­viewed were outstanding people," Roemer emphasized. "It was a very tough decision." 
Schlageter said he is ''anxious to do a good job." He added his general plans were to continue to "fix up the place, making improve­ments wherever needed, and run the bar as efficiently as possible." 
University-Bar relationship 
Senior Bar is owned by the University. According to Roemer, the University purchased the li­cense and subsidized it when it was losing money. but the day-to-day operation is the responsibility of the Senior Class, specifically those who are chosen and paid to oversee it." 
Roemer stated that many ad­ministrators and faculty are asso­ciated with Senior Bar. Philip Facenda, general counsel for the University is involved with renew­ing the license every year. He also deals with any legal problems the bar is faced with. 
Senior Bar is licensed by the 
Indiana Alcoholic Beverage Com­
mission (ABC) as a private club. 
According to ABC law, this type of 
license requires a defined member­
ship with dues of at least $6 a year. 
The Notre Dame Senior Alumni 

THE STUDENT PLAYER:l AND YOUR STUDENT UNION
rPRESENT A NEIL SIMON COMEDY 
\ 

''COME BLOW YOUR HORN!'' 
APRIL 8:00 P.M. 
20, 21, 28, 29 $1.00 
IN THE NAZZ J 
THE SOUND OF BRASS 
A CONCERT BY 
lHE NOTRE DAME BRASS QUINTET THURSDAY, .APRIL 20 7:00PM 
HOWARDnM•~--------­
Association is the charter that meets this requirement. Dues are $10 per year and membership 1s open to insure proper book­keeping.'' 
Milani and Roemer are advisers and set direct overall policy and employment. This year, unusually high profits caused some discus­sion about investments. 
"From a legal 'point of view," Roemer stated, "there is no ques­tion who the money belongs to.'' He explained that he would like to see the profits used for improve­ments in the bar. Roemer cited the restrooms, the stairs, and the floors as areas which could be improved. 
"I think the more you upgrade a place, it will be reflected in the clientele and the way they act,'' he said. If possible, Roemer added that something could be set aside for next year's initial operating expenses. 
"The money put into Senior Har comes from the Senior Class," Roemer stated. He explained his ideas for using the profits to benefit future senior classes. This could be done by organizing a scholarship fund for needy seniors or possibly an emergency fund. 
Roemer agreed that the use of profits was definitely an admini­strative decision. He added that he would be open to suggestions from the seniors "as long as they are beneficial to the whole class." 
U.S. prepared to defend canal if Panama had tried sabotage 
WASHINGTON [AP] -The United 
States was prepared to defend the 
Panama Canal if the Panamanian 
military had tried to take the 
waterway by force, President Cart­
er's chief spokesman said yester­
day. 
"It is safe for you to assume we 
would be prepared to defend 
American interests and the canal, 
as we have been," White House Press Secretary Jody1Powell said. 
The White House statement was prompted after Panamanian leader Gen. Omar Torrijos declared that his regime was ready to sabotage the canal had the Senate defeated the second of the two Panama Canal treaties on Tuesday night. The treaties relinquish U.S. control of the international waterway by the end of the century. 
Torrijos said after the Senate's vote that if the treaty had been rejected, "we would have started another struggle for liberation." Torrijos said the close vote placed the Panama Canal "within two votes of being destroyed. 
Torrijos' statement. issued only minutes after the Senate approved the accord with one vote to spare, bll-32. still caused repercussions here yesterday. 
The chief Senate strategist for anti-treaty forces. Sen. Paul Laxalt, R-NV. salci the Torrijos statement indicates U.S.-Panamanian relat­ions may be difficult during the 22 
1mile north of Notre Dame on U S. 31 North 
Ends Tonite Walter Matthau PG "Casey's Shadow" 7:()()-9:30 
STARTS FRIDAY 
SILVERBEARS 
Thcv wert· Jftcr -.ilvcr and ~hcv 
· struck gold. · 
Michael Caine·Louis Jourdan Cybill Shepherd Friday 7:00-9:30 Sat.Sun. 2:00·4:15-7:00-9:30 
years before the .::anal is placed under Panamanian control. 
"I'm not surprised," Laxalt said of the Torrijos statement. "But it was a hell of a way to start a shotgun marriage." 
Carter called Sen. Howard Can­non, D-NV, one of the last to declare himself in favor of the treaty switch. A Cannon aide said the senator told Carter "he was dumbfounded that Torrijos would make such a statement. He told the president he was very dis­tressed." 
But the White House and State Department shrugged off Torrijos' statement Tuesday night, as did 
Democratic congressionai leaders. 
At a White House briefing, Powell refused to acknowledge a report that U.S. forces had been placed on alert. But he said that if such an order had been given, Carter, as commander-in-chief, would have ordered it. 
The Pentagon said flatly that no alert had been implemented. However, Defense Department of­ficials said officers with the South­ern Command Headquarters in the Canal Zone reported late Tuesday that military patrolling in the zone had been stepped up. But authori­ties stressed that no leaves were cancelled and no U.S. troops were 
placed on alert. 
AIESEC to sponsor 
tribute to 
The Notre Dame chapter of AIESEC will sponsor a ''Tribute to Frank E. Sullivan" dinner and reception Tuesday at the Century Center in South Bend. Sullivan, a Notre Dame trustee and former South Bend business leader, will be the featured guest at the dinner. 
A 1949 Notre Dame graduate, Sullivan is president of Mutual Benefit Life Insurance Company and a member of the College of Busint-«s Administration Advisory 
Just South of North Vill_age Mall-For info. dial277·1522 
HELD OVER-5th WEEK ~ 
BURT REYIOLDS KRIS llRISTOFFERSOI Weekdavs
''SEMI 
7:15-9:20
• Sat. Sun. 1:45-4:
TOUGH" 
-6:45-9:20 
Jill Clayburg~ Sorry 
no passes or "> · 
discount '. , 
tickets .J\.. · 
Fri.Sat. ,/ ·.... 


Judicial (joo-dish-al) Co-ordinator (ko-or-da-nat-tar) 
1. one who is knowledgable about 
the University Rules and Regulations and is anxious to preserve stude~t rights 
2. one who is available to answer your questions ... 
Please Call: Jayne Rizzo 7960 or Kevin Mescall 1181 
S.G. Judicial Office 6413 
... 

-----------------------------,
THE NEW SPECIALS 
presented by the 

DLIBRARYD 
Thursday 7&7 Special 50¢ 
' 7 ..... 10 
Specials on all ca·rry Outs 
•

-----------------------------~ 
Sullivan 
Council. He is also the author of three books, including The Critical Path to Sales Success. 
The reception begins at 6 p.m. with a cocktail hour. Dinner will be served at 7 p.m. Tickets may be purchased in writing or by calling the AIESEC office at 283-2886. The price is $15 to the public, $10 to ND-SMC students. 

Vance brings SALT to Russia 
MOSCOW [API-Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance said yesterday that "difticult problems" remain in the. path of a new U.S.-Soviet strategic arms agreement. He arrived on an evening flight from London and will meet with President Leonid I. 
Brczhnev. 
Foreign Minister Andrei A. Grom­yko went to Vnukovo Airport to meet Vance and Soviet television showed them shaking hands warm­lv. 
·Reading a prepared statement, Vance said that in four meetings over the past 18 months. he and Gromkyo have "made progress ... in bringing the two sides closer together on a number of issues." But the secretary added: "Comp­lex and difficult problems remain in 

tJan t::Os-cal 
Road rally 
The green flag falls on Sunny Saturday at 9 a.m. for the 1978 An Tostal Road Rally. All you'll need is your own vehicle, gas, and all the navigators you can stand to bring. A street map of South Bend-Mishawaka might also be helpful. 
For registratrion and information, call Tim "Panther" Malloy 't 7820 or Jim Swintal, who has actually attended the Indianapolis 500 four times, at 287-5726. 
SMC football 
On An Tostal Monday there will be two semi final interhall 
football games featuring the Belles of Saint Mary's. Holy Cross will 
meet McCandless on Saint Mary's field at 4:30 p.m., followed by 
Regina against LeMans. 

The Saint Mary's interhall champion will be determined on Tuesday. Then, on Sunny Saturday on the field in back of Stepan Center, this team will take on Notre Dame's champion, Lewis Hall. 
Car stuffing 
Have you ever thought about being a sardine? An Tostal gives you the chance. You and your friends can pack yourselves together like sardines in a can--in An Tostal's Car Stuffing Contest. 
The object of the contest is to stuff as many people as will fit in an old car furnished by us. This intimate event will be held Frivolous Friday at 3 p.m. 
Get your team together and call 7905 or 7908 to sign up or to get further information. 
the SALT negotiations. I hope my visit here will make progress on the remaining major issues ... I view this meeting as an important stage in the ongoing quest of our two countries for a stable strategic balance and world peace." 
U.S. officials expect no dramatic breakthrough during Vance's three day visit, and no agreement for a Brezhnev summit with President Carter in the United States. 
But if Vance can narrow the gap a bit on three major issues. the trip will be considered a success. in contrast to his failure here in March 1977 to get the Soviets to agree to substantial cutbacks 111 strategic weapons. 
In the U.S. view. the first obstacle 
SALE! 
Album Cover Mirrors sa.99 Tour T-shirfs $3.00 
1 
I 
I 
I 
I I
I 
I I 
1 
I 
II . 

to !>top development of new inter­continental balli~tic missile~ and moderni;ing of exisling ones. The United State~ 1\'0uld like missile restriction~ on both superpowers for three years. 
The second is a dispute over the Soviet bomber known to the West as the Backfire. The problem is considered mostly political and concerns Congress as much as the Russians. 
A third obstacle in the way of a new SALT accord centers on ·soviet efforts to keep the United States from sharing with its European allies the technology of cruise missiles. the low-llying. pilotless bomber that is relatively inexpen· 
. Sl.OO OFF! I I Any L.P. Or Tape I With This Coupon! I 
Now thru May I! I 
r()IJl· '""!'•'";,,.""·'I" r I"'"'""· Co11p01" llol "did for <''11-<HII\ I 
.... "" ,.. ~.-I 
River City Records I 50970 U.S. 31 North I South Bend A I 277-4242 ~ -. I I 3 miles lllort OTCampus I 
.. 


Thursday, April 20, 1978 

the observer 
Coalition formed to oppose tuition tax credit 
INDIANAPOIJS [AP] • Nine of The legislation provides a tax the state's biggest educational credit for half of a child's private organizations have formed a coali-school tuition, up to $500. It tion to fight the Tuition Tax Credit originally included all private Act pending in Congress, spokes-school tuition but was amended in a men for the group said yesterday. House committee last week to 
The tax credits wiii make public exclude elementary and secondary schools "institutions for the poor" school tuition. and reduce the quality of free, But Lenore Bruce, legislative public education, the coalition said. coordinator for the state PTA 
• • Private schools ought to function warned that elementary and secon­without expecting to dip into the dary schools may be amended back public till," Robert L. Thornberry, into the biii once it reaches the director of the Indiana Federation House floor. of Teachers, told reporters at a "The current federal role in news conference. support of elementary and secon-
The coalition, which also in-dary education amounts to approx­cludes the Indiana Congress of imately $128 for every child in Parents and Teachers PTA and the public schools and $70 for every Indiana State Teachers Associa-child in non-public school," Bruce tion, claims the tax credit is said. "The tax credit...would unconstitutional, cuts into funds provide four times as much money available for public schools and for children in private schools as for encourages the establishment of children in public schools. schools based on religious, cui-"Since the tax credit proposal tural. political or ethnic considera-will only partly reimburse tuitions tions. paid to private schools, children whose parents are poor will still in .all likelihood be unable to raise the other half of the money needed to pay for private school tuition," she said. ''The public schools will become institutions of the poor." 
"Middle-income parents who have their childre:n enrolled in the private sector would not support increased funds for the public schools,'' Bruce said. ''Public schools might never recover from such a blow and the educational needs of the vast majority of American children will suffer be­cause of it." 
Bruce also challenged the consti­tutionality of the proposal. "This type of federal involvement in fostering schools based upon politi­cal, ethnic and religious philosophy has been opposed by Attorney General Griffin Bell and most constitutional scholars as a viola­tion of the First Amendment's separation of church and state," she said. 
Bruce said she met with most of Indiana's eleven congressmen in Washington last week. Three of them -Democrats Floyd Fithian, David Cornwell and Phil Sharp ­are undecided, she said. Demo­crats John Brademas and Andy Jacobs are opposed to the credits, 

Sophomore class officers nowaccepting applications 
The new ND Sophomore Class ers are also being sought for the officers are now accepting applica-overseas newsletter. tions for positions on next year's Anyone interested should submit Sophomore Advisory Council and a one pageresumestating qualifica­the Public Relations Committee. tions, goals, and ideas to the 
The Council will consist of one Student Activities office, located on representative from each hall, with the first floor of LaFortune. the exception of Flanner and The application deadline is 5 Grace, which will have two each. p.m. Friday. For more informa-
The Public Relations Committee tion, call either Jim Veraldi (8941), wiii consist of 12-15 members. Maureen McKenna (7827), Debbie Editors, writers, and photograph-Smith (1284), or Aaron Bell (3003). 
and Republicans Elwood Hillis and John Myers and Democrat Dave Evans support credits for private college tuition. Republican Dan Quayle and Democrat Adam Ben­jamin support credits for all private schools, she said. 
'I've got Pabst BlueRibbon on my mind." 


--.r~----------------------------------~-~­
~P.O.BoxQ~ 
A Reply 
from 
Senior Bar 
Editor's Note: The foUowlng Is Mr. Dunne's reply to the open letter from John Larrabee which was printed In Tuesday's Observer. 
Dear Mr. Larrabee: 
I would first like to thank you for 
your interest and concern with the 
operation of the Senior-Alumni 
Club. It is my feeling that many of 
our fellow classmates have similar 
questions and would appreciate if 
somc~me could answer them. 
Therefore the purpose of this letter 
is not merely to comment on your 
observations, but rather to better 
acquaint the members of the 
Senior-Alumni Club with the over­
all operation of the bar. 
First; I would like to discuss the bar's financial position. I was misquoted in the Observer as saying that it was necessary to build up the bar's profits to $25,000. At the time of the iinterview the bar's profits were! all't'ady in excess of that figure. At this point I would like to empha· size· it never was, nor will it ever by my intention "to build" the bar's profits to any level. I am somewhat disappointed that such great attention is centered around the Senior Bar's profit and so little consideration is paid to the staff . whose efforts have resulted in so many permanent improvements. The tremendous profits that did accumulate were due to the efforts of an extremely honest and hard­working staff. 
However, I would like to say that I am in no way angry with the Observer for misquoting me. To expect absolute perlection from any organization is unfair, especial­ly from a completely student-run operation such as the Observer or the Senior Bar. 
In your letter you also state that I am defensive about "implications that you(l) am personally benefit· ting from the bar's success.'' I feel that if I am defensive about this fact 1am with good reason. Until I did state emphatically that "we receive no profits whatsoever" many of the members of our class felt that Jimmy Dunne was becom· ing a very wealthy man. After this article a great number of people approached me and expressed delight in finding out the truth concerning the ba.-'s profits. In all honesty the Senior Bar is in a unique position since it has never realized such financial success. As a result it is still uncertain where the profits will go. I can assure you that once the· administration de­cides how it will allocate the funds it will be made ·public. If in the past I have acted irritable about discus­sion concerning the use of the profits, it is because, quite frankly, I am tired of hearing about them. 
As far as your objection to the fact that I did not mention the employee dinner at the Boar's Head, I would like to remind vou that all of your knowledge or'the operation of the Senior Bar seems to be the result of one very short article in the Observer. How is it possible for me to explain every aspect of the bar's operation in one short article? You are absolutely correct, I did not mention the dinner in the article, nor did I 
mention the fact that the enttre staff of 29 reported back to school eight days before registration for the sole purpose of renovating the bar and did so without pay. Along with working eight hours a day for eight days without pay, they also had to make arrangements for imd pay for room and board. However, 
I would like to mention that Dr. Kenneth Milani, the faculty advisor to the bar, suggested having the dinner and Dean James Roemer approved and signed the check for it. On this point Mr.Larrabee, I don't feel your criticism is in any way constructive but rather very cheap and petty. 
If you are interested in reviewing our books please be my guest. Keno Ricci is the business manager of the bar and I am sure he will enjoy meeting you and answering any of your questions. I would like to say publicly that we are audited twice a semester by the University auditor, Mr. Lou Cohen. As a matter of fact Mr. Cohen has recently completed his first audit of the second semester and he and I met in his office on April 14. Mr. Cohen commented to me that "The bar's records are very clear and in perlect order.'' Mr. Cohen went on to say that we had a very clean and successful operation, and I as general manager, should be proud. Since it is my understanding that you are a science major, Mr. Larrabee, I am sure Mr. Cohen would be very interested in your 
appraisal of the  books  he  has  
audited.  
James J. Dunnem  

General Manage.-, Senior~ 
Sophomore 
Class Elections: In Retrospect 
Dear Editor, 
In the recent Class ... of '81 
elections, l of all of the tickets running in the class, only one had a woman running for the post of President. And, much to my surprise, this was one of the two tickets which made it to the run-off election. There is something to be said for a class at Notre Dame which almost elects a ticket with a woman in the top slot. To use a popular phrase on campus, the rest was to be "gravy". 
I wish then to commend the class of '8t, especiallyall ofits members who saw past the p!)Sters to t]!~ platforms, and in particular, I wish to commend ·•• everyone con~te~ted . with the Abowd·Ward·Solari-DoilY ovan ticket, for getting where they' did. . 
I shaU ask that rny name be withheld .. frow .·.this letter, • !Wf because J am ashanwd to sign it; but because l ht)J)e that itcotdd have been written by persons oth~r than mysel[ · · ··. 
Name wlthheJCl byRequest; 
Reschedule 
;Small World' 
Dear Editor, 
We would like to congratulate the International .. Stupent Organi~ zation for a great festival, "Small World." It seems to get better every year. The Indian ladies should receive special recognition · for their dance. 
Too bad the last group had to leave a bad taste again this year by taking advantage. of their postiori on the program, and conducting their own {)rivat~ thing·.·. to .. th~ boredom of the audience. Three hours in a warm ~t4ffy hall i~ too ·. much. They .~b(>td~ b~ scheduled . to put on tbeit own $how in the Rathsl$:ellar duri~g; t.fw•··l'e~ptkt~ ...·.·· .. This would l~iiv~ the program to... the people wh~shg~.c()nsideraHon• for others. • . ·. .·.· .... .· ....•••.... 
. No~ Dan•~ and1U$Ilf~~ty
· · andmmuy 

r--------by Garry Trudeau_.__________________w:.;.;:e:.:;.ap!:.:o:.:;n::.:.s._"__~----"""' 

8/ISKYli.I.Y, MELJ.OIAJ IS A NSA1 !JAY OF t:EFIN!Ne 7Hc SPACE ~I1EAO's IN, A IUAY OF 6137'­7/Ne IN 70lJCH IAJ/TH 7HOSE 
FetUNe5 7HAT WILL 13NAB1.E YOU 70 LEAP A MUCH MORE 
NATlRAL 
::: 
~ 
I /lEAR. W, MARl<. CINe OF 7Hc MOST Qli1M:W MISO'JNCEPT/ONS ABafTffl.l.cKu WOAY IS ?HAT YOIJ H4VE 7V 8C UPIAJ/IR!XY M0­
81U3, &mvOMtW/54 ~ ;r;u ('AN FI.A5H av IT/ 
" 
MEI.J..()W IS AU I SEE. AND AROUNO US, MARK. {)JAATtWilJ) IT's IAJHCAT R8EI<. Be SCWic IT's HOilSEPtANT5. EXAMPLES IT'S OIOPIN FES71­0F MliJJI)(J)? 1/tll.S AN{) JACUzziS 
I 
ANO'TENNIS 
ANO 7118 
\ 
WELL, IT JUST ISN'T SO! IN f74C7; 1HE EXTENSIVE /?E.SCAI?CJI I 010 /)(/RJN6 Mf F&L.L{)UJSf{/PAT 7Hc CAL.IFORNIA INST/7l!TC RJ!<. Tl-113 M&l.t{}(;(J 57J?OI-.6t.Y SU6613STS 
OlliERtUIS/3/ "' 

~~~The Observer 
an independent newspaper serving Box Q the notre dame and saint mary's Notre Dame community Ind. 46556 
The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution The news is reported as accurately and as objectively as possible. Editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, opinion-.; and letter~ are the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community, and the free expression of varying opmrons on campus, through letters, is encouraged 
EDITORIAl BOARD 
Tony Pace Editor-in-Ch ref 
Steve Odland Managing Editor 
John Calcutt Executive Editor 
Barb Langhenry Executive Editor 
Rosemary Mills Editorial Editor 
Phil Cackley Cor\ Editor 
Jean Powley St Mary's Editor 
Ann Gales News Editor 
Mike Lewis News Editor 
Diane Wilson News Editor 
Ray O'Brien Sports Editor 
Bryan Gruley Features Editor 
~ Thursday, April 20, 1978 .../J 
Take the Neutron Bomb, 
Please 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii-art buchwaI d 
WASHINGTON-·! like Rippleman 
because he has an opinion on 
everything. The other day I asked 
him how he felt about the neutron 
bomb and he said, "I like the 
neutron bomb. It's safe and it's 
sane, and God knows this world 
needs another war weapon to 
protect itself.'' 

"But," I said, "it seems so 
expensive." 

"For a tactical weapon it's a steal. Maybe it might sound expensive today, but let's say by the year 2000, when we give the Panama Canal back to Panama, somebody says the United States can't go through the canal before El Salvador. What do we do?" 
"I don't know," I admitted. 
"We use the neutron bomb. We kill all the people in the area but we don't hurt the canal. Then every­one will say the bomb was a bargain." 

"That's a good point. If we used conventional nuclear weapons to blast the El Salvador boat out of the way, no one would be able to use' the canal," I said. "The only thing that worries me is that if we build a neutron bomb, Iran and Saudi Arabia and Israel will demand we sell it to them first. Since we're dependent on their goodwill, they have first crack at all our new 
HMM..st»/IJS
CffiiJUCATEO. (](, Fa< SIRE! IS TH&R& AU 't()() #~ 8E61NNEiKS !SA GOOO MCI.L.{){Q? lt:lll-51'7fi.ED/ 
ftUOiJ/511/P? 17'5 AU IN YOU IAJ/3RE MY ('J(APTe!<., A MELLI)UJ "MclL/)(J/ {1V A 
FEUOW? f/XEO INCOME.'' 
) \ 
.,•.,....._.,"..,....,· '
-~-/
-~ 
"Then we'll sell it to them. After 

all, if Iran. Saudi Arabia and Israel 
offer to buy the neutron bomb from 
us we can make it a lot cheaper." 
"I was hoping that the neutron 

bomb would be just for us. It would 
be nice if the United States had one 
weapon it could call its own." 
"We can't build weapons just for 

ourselves," Rippleman said. 
"They're too expensive. But if we 

can get every country to say they'll 
take a gross of neutron bombs we 
can bring it in at a price our 
Defense Department can live 
with." 
"What I don't understand is, if 

we let a country huy our latest war 
weapons. how will we have the 
advantage over them in case they 
do something stupid like let an El 
Salvador hoat go through the 
Panama Canal before we do?" 
Rippleman said, "It's quite sim­

ple. The fact that they buy the 
weapon from us doesn't necessarily 
mean they know how to use it. A 
neutron bomb is a very complicated 
piece of hardware. Only by 
lighting the fuse will it go off." 
"And you don't think someone 

can learn how to fire one?" 
"Not unless he's had an Ameri­

can high school education. You 
take two soldiers facing each other 
with their neutron bombs, one with 
an American high school diploma 
and one with a diploma from 
Albania. Who do you think will 
win?" 
"The American, of course," 

said. 
"Right," said Rippleman. "But 

why?" 
"I don't know.'' 

"Because the American Gl has been taught to think for himself. If he can't set the bomb off he'll hit the Albanian soldier over the head with it." 
"But isn't there another problem with the neutron bomb?" I said. "I understand many Gls want to retire early to get their pensions. Sup­pose they learn how to use the bomb and then quit the service for their pensions. Who will be left to fire it?" 
"I've been giving that a lot of thought," Ripple man said. "If a GI who specializes in the neutron bomb retires and goes on pension, he would be hired by the Defense Department as a 'civilian special­ist' in charge of firing it." 
''And then the Panama Canal would be saved,'' I cried. 
"I don't know if it will be saved, but it sure as hell will give El Salvador second thoughts about stopping one of our ships from going through the canal before they do." 
[c)l978, Los Angeles Times 
Syndicate 

How To Cook a Corned~ 
by florenceanne ·strigle 

Prepare one Neil Simon Comedy 
Blend in one fresh, two nearly ripe, and 
three vintage thespians 
Add one unseasoned director 
Mix well and serve 
Yields four nights of entertainment, 150 
servings per night 
This is the recipe Maureen Flynn, director 
of Come Blow Your Hom, is using to cook 
this semester's Student Players produc­
tion. The Neil Simon Comedy will be 
presented at the Nazz. in the Rathskellar of 
the LaFortune Student Center, April 21, 
22, 28 and 29 at 8:00 pm. 
Come Blow Your Hom, written in 1961, 
portrays 33 year-old playboy, Alan Baker (Don Murphy), showing his naive, 21 year-old brother. Buddy (Jeff Pecore), how to break the chains of parental domination (Mr. and Mrs. Baker are played by Mike Volbcrding and Brooke Waling) and how to take advantage of bachelorhood. One of Alan's "advantages" is Peggy Evans (Marita De Ia Cotera). The problems resulting from Buddy's corruption a111d from Alan's fall for Connie Dayton (Mary Browne are the meat of the play and its 
humor. 
"It is a fun. fast-paced show.," commen­
ted Pecore. "But it is also the most 
demanding comedy I have ever been in. It 
has very few one-liners or visual aids," he 
said. "You have to work for every laugh 
you get. and that requires a lot from an 
actor -especially an amateur." Jeff 
continued. "In our case," he concluded, 
"putting on Come Blow Your Hom is 
definitely a learn-as-you-go production." 
Flynn first became aware of just how 
much learning was necessary at the play's 
second practice. At this rehearsal, she 
asked Don Murphy and Marita De Ia 
Cotera to go through one of their love 
scenes. being especially aware of projec­
ting their characters' intimacy. In the 
middle of the reading. Don. in an effort to 
project this intimacy. slid his arms from 
around Marita's waist downward. until his 
hands rested on her buttocks. Immediat­
ely Marita pushed him away, and admon­
ished, "Please. nothing below the waist." 
De Ia Cotera. a SMC sophomore, laughed 
about the situation a few weeks later and 
explained. "That was tvpical of the 
difticultics I experienced trying to get into 
character.·· Marita is cast as the stereo­
typical dumb. "loose" girl. "This part is 
particularly hard on me for two reasons," 
she said. "The first is my strict 
upbringing. I kept thinking: .. My father is 
coming to this -what will he think when he 
sees me crawling all over this guy?" 
Marita's other difticultv was that she was 
afraid everyone who saw her would think 
she is "loose" in reality. "I could not 
separate my character f~om myself." she 
emphasized. 
According to Flynn. Marita's problems arc natural for someone who has held only three small roles in other shows. "We (the cast) had to explain to Marita that she was just doing a part and that everyone in the audience would realize this." recalled Flynn. "It was a delicate situation," she observed. 

While all the cast members confirm that Come Blow Your Hom has taught them a lot, the one who claims to have learned the most from the play is Flynn. Come Blow Your Horn is Flynn's first attempt at directing. "I have always been interested in theatre but never intensely involved," Flynn stated. ''My only theatrical exper­iences are some medium-sized roles in high school plays, enrollment in a four-­week course on "Irish Drama" at the Dublin College in 1976 and two theatre courses at Notre Dame,'' she said. 
What has Flynn learned from Come Blow Your Hom O"all the basics -what to look for at an audition. how to block a scene, organization, scheduling, lighting,...you name it. and I have learned it," she quipped. However, "the most important lesson I have learned from Come Blow Your Horn is that one should be willing to help others and accept help from others," she emphasized. 
This primary concern for others that Flvnn underlines is. coincidentally. similar to. the philosophy of the Student Players organization. According to Lou Spisto, co-founder of the group. Student Players has three goals: first. to foster fun and friendship; secondly. to encourage individ­ual growth, particularly in and through theatre; and finally. to present the best show possible. 
Spisto and Pecore. the other co-founder of the Student Players. emphasize that fun and growth are more important than professionalism. ''This is the only group at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's in which complete novices have a good opportunity to dabble in theatre," noted Spisto. "While this could mean less polish," he said. "Student Players is willing to sacrifice it to keep this opportunity in theatre open to novices." 
Other members of the cast also exper­ienced difficulties getting into their parts. Mike Volberding had problems becoming Mr. Baker, the middle-aged father. "Before l would go onstage," he began, "I would think: what arc the charaeterisitics of an older person? I would try to become totally serious and exude control, " he said, "but it did not always work." 
Volbcrding, a junior engineering major, has never been in any theatrical production before and in the initial practices, he became easily frustrated. "I needed a lot of encouragement,'' he admitted. Through awareness exercises and through takes of scenes, retakes, and retakes of retakes, Mike became more sure of himself as Mr. Baker. 
Practice also solved the problem of getting into character for Mary Browne a Saint Mary's government major and novice actress. ''Mary has the almost impossible task of being the only completely straight character in the show," explained Flynn. Consequently, "it is extremely difficult for her to keep up the comic undertones of the show and deliver all the heavy lines." Flynn said. However., Flynn noted that "Mary is holding her own." 
There are three veteran actors in Come 
Blow Your Hom. Two are Brooke Waling. 
a theatre major and a regular face on the 
ND-SMC theatre stage, and Don Murphy, 
a three-time Student Players production 
star. The third veteran is Jeff Pecore, a 
two-time director for· and three-time star in 
Student Players' productions. Pecore is 
also one of the co-founders of the Student 
Players. These actors found themselves above: Brooke Waling as mother; left: [Buddy] Jeff Pecore & [Father] Mike Volberding; below: Marita De Ia Cotera relaxing. [All photos by Mo Flynn] 

learning from practices, too. "The biggest lesson the three of us had to master," observed Murphy, "was concentration. Because Student Players is composed of amateurs, and peer amateurs at that, it is less disciplined than, say, ND-SMC theat­re," Murphy commented. "but," he added, ''A show still has to be produced in a limited amount of time and that means acceptance of responsibility." 

The Christian Message 
"In ten words or less, what's the Chris­
tian message? Let me have it. Ten 
words." 
I said: We're all bastards, but God loves 
us anyway." 
That's the explanation Will Campbell came up with when he was pressed by a friend for a succinct definition of Christi­anity. The definition, when carried to its logical conclusion, would eventually lead Campbell to a profound conversion and reappraisal of his own ministry. 
In a truly remarkable autobiography, Brother to a Dragonfly, Campbell spins a tale of our South during a critical segment of its history. He was a chaplain at Ole Miss, where he quickly found himself in the hot seat of racial trouble. They called Will Campbell a "nigger lover" during the civil rights struggle of the '60s; but are· they not just as liable to call him a "red-neck lover." That's what happened when he began to discover the full imr ::t of the definition of Christianity he had given years earlier. 
In the middle sixties, Campbell, who had acquired quite a name for himself as a civil-rights~ activist, was beginning to harbor some self-doubts. He suspected he might be doing the right things for the wrong reasons. He detected a healthy dose of self-righteousness in his liberal posture. And his suspicions were intensified by black leaders like Stokely Carmichael, who told him it was his job to make sure his own people--Southern red-necks--got religion also. 
A moment of truth came when Campbell learned that his young friend Jonathan Daniel had been killed by a special deputy named Thomas Coleman in Alabama. Will's friend forces him to assess the situation in the light of his definition of Christianity. "Which of these two bas­tards does God love the most? Does he love that little bastard Jonathan the most? Or does he love that living bastard the most?" 
The revelation comes suddenly. Camp­bell realizes that for twenty years he has been entrapped in a ministry of liberal sophistication: "An attempted negation of Jesus, of human engineerin.,, or riding the coattails of Caesar, of playing on his ballpark. by his rules and with his ball, or looking to government to make and verify and authenticate our morality, or worship­ing at the shrine of enlightenment and academia, of making an idol of the Supreme Court, a theology of law and order and of denying not only the Faith I professed to hold but my history and my people--the Thomas Colemans. Loved. And if loved, forgiven. And if forgiven, reconciled." 
Will Campbell saw that his ministry had 

by fr. bill toohey 
become one of Jaw, not of grace. Since then, he has involved himself in a ministry that refuses to take sides. He recognized that God loves equally the hater and the hated; and he tried to live that truth in his own ministry. 
When James Meredith was shot during a march through Mississippi, Campbell vi­sited Meredith in the hospital and then Meredith's assailant who was in jail. Similarly, he has visited in jail the Grand Dragon of the Ku Klux Klan. This radical following of the gospel is terribly hard to accept. Indeed, some of Will's former friends have never become reconciled to his latter-day "ministry of reconciliation." 
Nor does he endear himself to all-white Christian academicians when he points out that "the racism at Duke and Harvard and Yale is more serious than what happens when a few pitiful Ku Kluxers march around a burning cross in a cow pasture." 
Campbell is impolite enough to suggest that the Ku Klux Klan if not the only organization with a record of violence. "What about the Ford Motor Company, the textile industry," he wonders, "and their own system of violence; or the American State Department, the war in Vietnam (which was then raging out of all sense and control), or the American churches with their vast holdings and investments and power, or the University which teaches, fosters and carries out more violence in one semester than the Klan has committed in its history, for it is they who produce the owners, the managers, the governors and presidents, the rulers and the warriors." 
No wonder Will Campbell has enemies on the right and the left. He has been forced into becoming a reconcilor by his reading of the gospel and his understanding of the nature of tragedy. Campbell sees through his own smugness and arrogance and pridefulness--the infection of his earlier days as a doctrinaire social activist. He states his case: 
"There was drama and romance in the civil rights movement and we who had no home at home sought that home in the Jlack cause....We did not understand that those we so vulgarly called 'red-neck' were a part of the tragedy. They had been victimized one step beyond the black.... 
"We picked the wrong enemy. We were right in aligning ourselves with the black sufferer. But we were wrong in not directing some of our patience and energy and action to a group which also had a history. A history of slavery.'' 
And Will Campbell's cure for his pride­fulness comes through the realization thai "we are all bastards loved bv God"; forced to acknowledge that, we ail have citizen­ship in the "democracy of sin." 



a___~tb~a~oub~s~eM1rv~e~r_____________T_h_u_rs_d_a~y,_A_p_r_i1_2_o_,_19_7__8 
Campus Briefs 

Field receives Truman Award 
Patti Field, a sophomore at Saint Mary's is a 1978 winner of a four-year Harry S. Truman Schol­arship. The scholarship covers all expenses for the last two years of her undergraduate career and the first two years of whatever gradu­ate or professional program she chooses. 
Field is one of only 53 recipients for 1978, the second year of the Truman Scholarship's operation. One winner is chosen from each of SO states, the District of Columbia, and two territories. Field was one I of the five semi-finalists in her home state of Wisconsin. i 
Students applying for the schol-1 ~ arship must be nominated by their 1 college, be in the upper 25 percent of their class, carry a B average, , and have the intention of doing graduate work in the field leading to a public service career. 
Field, a government major, in­tends to enter law school after graduation from Saint Mary's. 
ND Brass Quintet plans to perform 
"The Sound of Brass," is the title of a short concert to be given by the Notre Dame Brass Quintet in Howard Hall at 7:00 p.m. tonight. Sponsored by the Howard Aca­demic-Cultural Commission, the 
~SCOTTSDALE 
Scottsdale Mall Telephone 291-4583 
Anne Bancroft Shirley MacCiaine Times 
2:15-4:30-7:00-9:15 
Daily 
concert is open to the public and 
free of charge. 
The Quintet is under the hand of 
Fr. George Wiskirchen, assistant 
director of bands at Notre Dame. 
Wiskirchen is also founding direc­
tor of the jazz program at Notre 
Dame. 
The concert, which traces the development of brass literature, will be followed by a short recep­tion with refreshments. 
SG to arrange summer storage 
"Notre Dame Student Govern­ment will conduct a program for off-campus summer storage similar to the hall programs. All students moving off campus next year can sign up now through Tuesday in the Sudent Government offices in LaFortune. 
Senior Art Show to open at SMC 
The final Senior Comprehensive Art Show will open in the galleries of Saint Mary's college tomorrow. 
Included in this show are draw­ings by Barb Abell, paintings by Cathy Cavanagh and Laura Herzog, and fibers by Mary Fran Heberlein. 
Gallery hours are 9-11 a.m. and 12:30-3 p.m., Tuesday-Friday, and 12:30-4 p.m. on Saturday and Sunday. 
~RIVER PARK 
.·.·
Mishawaka Avenue at 30th <·:
:·:·
Telephone 288-8488 .~.·
·:·: 
·:·: 
Mon. thru Fri: 
7&9:15 
Sat. & Sun. 
1:00-3:00-5:00-7:00-9:15 

Our Specialty: IIIIIMill............. Oven Baked 
APPLE PANCAKES Extra large, using fresh apples & pure sugar cinnamon glaze US 31 (Dixie\Nay) North in Roseland 
272-7433 across from Holiday Inn
f 
******************** 
The Chica~ Club I Tneeds new leadersIJ President -VP -Treasurer f II I 
yone interested in these offices ?r iust helping out, Call:l 
U
JIP-32C4 or J B-8696
1
by midnight Sunday 1 
NO Orchestra to play Strauss 
At 8:15p.m. tomorrow the Notre 
Dame Orchestra, Adrian Bryttan, 
conductor, will present "Evening 
in Vienna," a program featuring 
the music of Johann Strauss. The 
program will feature guest soloists, 
including Congressman John 
Brademas;\ ballet;! and ballroom 
dancing. 
A part of the Notre Dame Concert Series, "Evening in Vienna" will take place in the ballroom of LaFortune. The event is open to the public without charge. 
Erhard Winkler, a native of Vienna and professor of earth sciences at Notre Dame, will be master of ceremonies. Brademas will be guest soloist in the "Pizzica­to Polka." 
Notre Dame voice faculty Becky Stauffer, soprano, Patrick Maloney, tenor, and soprano Susan Groeschel, a music major at Notre Dame, will perform arias and duets from Strauss' Die Fledermaus: ''Czardas, '' ''Laughing Song,'' "Trinke Liebschen," and the "Uhr Duet." 
Pam Coffman and Scott Forkner, of Dance World in South Bend, and dancers from the studio of Caroline Hines, South Bend, will present their dance interpretation of the "Blue Danube." 
Friday's program includes pieces for orchestra alone; such as the "Zigeunerbaron Overture," and favorite works for which the public will be invited to dance: "Emperor Waltz," "Tritsch Tratsch Polka," "Wiener Blut," "Roses from the South," and the "Thunder and Lightening Polka." 

Amnesty group to hold pienic 
Amnesty International, in con­

junction with CILA, will hold a 
picnic on Sunday from 3-6 p.m. in 
Pinbrook Park. Refreshments will 
be provided and admission is free. 

To reach the park, take Angela 
Rd. to Riverside St. Turn right, 

and proceed until arriving at the 
back of Saint Mary's. 

Rides will be available, leaving 
the Main Circle at 2:30 p.m. For 
more information, call Mike at 
8701. 

Vacate Stepan lot 
The An Tostal Committee is asking for the cooperation of all students, staff, and faculty to refrain from using the Stepan Center Parking Lot starting at 6 
p.m. tomorrow. 
Since carnival equipment will be placed in the parking lot during the weekend, staff and faculty assign­ed to the Stepan Center Parking Lot will be permitted to use the South half of the Stepan Center Basket­ball Court starting Monday. 
~TOWN &COUNTRY 1&2 
Town & Country Shopping Center Telephone 259-9090
1 2 
G>JPGI 
The story of the world's first pregnant man... it's inconceivably funny. 

.JJ: AVCO EMBASSY PICTURES 
C 1978 AVCO EMBASSY PICTURES CORP 
TIMES 
2:00-4:00-6:00-8:00-10:00 
.·~· 
ill li 
.·.·
:::: 
:::: 
1!!! Show Times: <1 :30, 3:30, 5:30, 7 :30, 9:30 
llll
·.·. 


White wins Sorin Award 
The Edward Frederick Sorin 
Award, named for the founder of 
Notre Dame, will be presented this 
year to Thomas White, a St. Louis 
land developer, former lawyer, and 
a 1937 Notre Dame graduate. The 
award is presented by the Alumni 
Association to a graduate who has 
given distinguished service to his 
community and the University. 
Presentation of the award is 
made during a spring meeting of 
the Alumni Association board of 
directors with alumni senators 
representing many of the 175 Notre 
Dame clubs across the nation. This 
year's presentation i~ scheduled for 
MayS. 
White earned a law degree from St. Louis University and practiced law for several years before joining his father in the land development field. He presently resides on a farm west of St. Louis. He has been active in service to several church and school organizations and has received the papal honor of Knight of the Holy Sepulchre. 
In 1968, White and his wife established a professorship in law at the University, and more recent­ly they gave· a $2.76 million endowment for the Thomas and Alberta White Center for Law, Government, and Human Rights. 
Carberry to give Kelly Lecture 
James J. Carberry, professor chemical engineering at Notre Dame, will deliver the Kelly Lec­ture at Purdue University's School of Chemical Engineering today. 
In his lecture, "Catalytic Oxida­tion Reaction Engineering," Carberry will describe research progress for several oxidation sys­tems of contemporary interest. The 1976 recipient of the R.H. Wilhelm Award for Chemical Re­action Engineering of the American Institute of Chemical Engineers, he has recently been named Sir Winston Churchill Fellow, Cam­bridge University, for the spring of 1979. 
The Kelly Lecture is supported by the Kelly Fund, established at Purdue in 1956 by an alumnus, Arthur Kelly, to bring outstanding scientists and engineers to the campus for lectures and discus­sions in the Department of Chemis­try and the School of Chemical Engineering. 

library happy hour 
TONIGHT 6-9 PM 
SPONSORED BY 

JI J & J 'NTERPRISES AND STUDINT UNION SCXlAl. CJ 
1/2 price beer & drinks 



Thursday, April 20, 1978 

the observer 
9 

@1977 Miller Brewing Co., Milwaukee, WIS. 

. . ·~ ' 
. ~. t. . . . ... . 


10 the observer 
Social Justice courses offered 
Theology 
Tbeo. 215 Evolution of Social Consciousness in the New Testa­ment, Ford, 3 MWF 
Theo. 242 Christian Ethics Today, Hauerwas, 3TT11 
Theo. 315 (samt. as Theology 215 but on higher level -9TT11) 
Theo. 342 Christian Ethlcs Today (Same as Theo. 242 but more advanced. 2TT4 
Theo. 373 Theology and Commun­Ity Service, McNeill/Whitehead, 3 3Tu6 
Theo. 381 Est, War, Law Ethlcs, 
Yoder/ Gordon/ Rodes/ Sterba, 3 
IOTT12 
Government 
Gov. 420 Urban Studies Seminar 
Kennedy, 3 7Thl0 night Gov. 420 Urban Studies Seminar, Kromkowski, 3 1MW3 
Gov. 421 Urban Ethnic Seminar, Kromkowski, 3 2TT4 Gov. 448 The Poll tical Uterature of Latin America, Kennedy, 3 1 MWF 
Gov. 452 Polltics of Southern Africa, Walshe, 3 2TT4 
Gov. 475 Social Tradition and Modem Reform, W alshe, 3 9TT11 Anthropology 
Anth. 314, Action Anthropoloto 
Sasaki, 3 lOMWF 
Philosophy 
Phllo•. 271 Ethics and Business, Goodpaster, 3 10TT12 1TT3 
Philo. 274 Moral Problems, Poj­man, J 9TT11 1 TT3 
Philo. 278 Medical Ethlcs, Solo­mon, 3 2TT4 
Phil 341 Ethlcs, Hawk, 3 2TT4 
Phil 243 Philosophy of Politics andl Society, Hawk, 9TT11 
Sociology 
Soc. 232 Social Problems, Wil­liams, 3 10TT12 
Soc. 234 Criminal Justice, Scott, 3 
IOTTI2 
Soe. 370 Medical Soelology,, Tarleton, 3 6W9 
Soc. 230 Social WeHare Policy, Pilger, 3 9TT11 
Soc. 305 Business and Society, Horning, 3 10TT12 Women's Studies 
Soc. 359 Women and Medicine, Carlton, 3 1TT3 
Anth. 330 Sex Roles In Cultural PErspective, Van Esterik, 3mwf 
Econ. 230 Women In the American Economy, Carter, 3 9MWF 
Theo. 384 Women In Religion, Fiorenza, 3 10TT12 
Psych 362 Psychology of Women and Men, Glass, 3 10TT12 
Engl 507 North American Women Writers, Gernes, 3 9MWF 
Ec~1nomics 
Econ. 227 Law and Economics, Stewart, 3 9TT11 
Econ 367 Publlic Policy -Eco­nomics of Water and Air PoUutlon, Durbin, 3 9MWF 
Econ 430 The Urban Crisis: A Political and F~nomic Analysis, Swartz, 3 9TT11 


40'ro off with no restrictions. There's no lower fare from here to there. 

Continental's Chickenfeed Fares are the solution to the dis­count fares confusion. Pure and simple. 
Chickenfeed Fares are simple. There are no lower fares anywhere 

we fly. Save 40'X, on weekdays, JO% on weekends to all our mainland cities. (Between selected cities you'll save 50% or more.) 
They're this pure. There are no restrictions of any kind. No bl{ying your ticket a month in advance. No minimum stays. No maximum stays. Fly one way or round trip. And get a 
Econ 412 The Socialist Tradition and Modem Reform, Walshe, 3 9TT11 
Econ 484 Economic Development of Latin America, Jameson, 3 9TT11 
Econ. 228 Economics of Consump­tion; Durbin, 3 lOMWF 
Econ. 315 Introduction to Political Economy, Vanderslice/Wilber, 3 2TT4 
Psychology 
Psych 209 Dehumanizing Forces In Society, Mil~r, 3Th5 
Religious Studies 
RISt 205  Introducing Theology,  
Mahts, 3  lOMWF  
RISt 215  The Church, Werner, 3  

lMWF 2MWF 
RISt 366 Christianity and Women, Mahts, 3 1TT3 Black Studies 
Econ/BISt 365 Economics of Dlscrfmfnatlon, Stewart, 3 1 TT3 
BlSt 422 Black American PoUtfcs, Wright, 3 MWF 
Call your Campus Rep, Travel Agent or Continental Airlines. Ask for the Chickenfeed Fare. Then make tracks for somewhere nice. 
---· 
Sample One Way Fares Regular Coach Chickenfeed Percentage Chicago to: Fare Fare Savings 
Colorado Springs $102 $61 40% 
Denver 102 61 40% 
Kansas City 60 30 50% 
Los Angeles 165 99 40% 
-~~­
Chickenfeed !"arcs dfective May 15. Weekdays I Monday-Thursday I: weekends (Friday-Sunday!. Suhject to CAB approval. ~ 
Chicago/ Los Angeles $lJ'J fare effective at this time on all nonstop flights. 


full refund if you cancel. 
The only limitation is the number of seats-available. So don't wait. 
We really move our tail for you. 
CON11NENTAL AIRUNES e 
The Plot..d Bud Wllh lhe Golden Tail , 
f 
Biology 

Bio 103 Biology and Human Va­lues, Stewart, 4 9MWF / 1/2MWF 
Bio 000 Social Implications of Biology 
Business 

BuEc 346 Business and Society, Horning, 3 10TT12 above (crosslisted with Soc 305] 
BuEc 451 History of Economic Thought, Borergasser, 3 10TT12 
History 

Hlst 103 World of Man, Cassidy, 3 8MWF lMWF 
Hist 354 Southern Africa, Cassidy, llMW 
Hlst 356 Southeast Asia, Pulla­pilly, 3 6M9 
Hlst 405 Economic History of US, Donahue, 3 2MWF 
Humanistic Studies 



-----·---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------. 
Thursday, April 20, 1978 the observer .11 
Linksmen boast fourth-place finish 
by Mark Ronsini Sports Writer 
"It was our day in the sun. All our perservence, patience, and hard work paid off. It was a totally outstanding performance by the Notre Dame golfers." These were the words of an elated coach Noel O'Sullivan as he characterized the fourth-place performance of the Notre Dame golf team at the Tenth Annual Kepler Tournament at Ohio State's demanding Scarlet Course. 
Twenty-five teams, representing the best and sturdiest competition in the Midwest gathered for the prestigious event. The Big Ten Conference, as well as the Mid­America Conference, e~;~tered ten participants. The remaining five teams represented the .Midwest's five major independent institu­tions, one of which is Notre Dame. 
After the first ronnd of action in the 54-hole tournament, the Irish sat confidently in fifth place with a combined team score of 396. Ohio State, last year's Big Ten cham­pion and perennial power, quickly revealed its super-team status and jumped to a comfortable first round the challenging par-72 course. advantage. Indiana University and Both shot a score of 75. Miami University of Ohio each held "On the third day we went out to slight leads over the Irish. show our pride, our performance, 
On the second day of the and our placement," said O'Sullli­competition the Irish squad deliver­van speaking of his team's objec­ed its finest performance of the tives. The Irish fulfilled all tourney. With a total team score of expectations by turning in a strong 378, Notre Dame tied Ohio State for round of 294, good enough for the tournament's low-score and fourth-place in the tournament. bolted assuredly into second place Dave Knee shot a 77, his personal in the total team standings. The best for the Invitational, while Irish were lead by captain Rich brother Rich added a very compe­Knee, who shot an outstanding tent 78. round of 72. Dave Knee and Tom "The team's fourth-place perfor­McCarthy each had a fine day on mance was very creditable in light 

National Champion fencers honored 
Notre Dame's 1978 National Champion fencing team was hon­ored Tuesday evening at the annual fencing banquet, held at the Monogram Room of the Athletic and Convocation Center. 
The NCAA title trophy, the school's second in as many years, was presented to University offici­als by coach Mike DeCicco. The team also awarded the school the championship trophy for winning the 1978 Great Lakes Tournament. 
Senior Pat Gerard, junior Mike Sullivan and sophomore Bjorne Vaggo were presented All-Ameri­can certificates for their perform­ances at the NCAA finals at 
NOTICES 
Save next year's book money now. Pandora's buys used books for cash or credit-applicable next year. Besides we have great books for summer reading. 937 South Bend Ave. 11-6 daily. 
Dissertations, amnuscripts, etc...typed. IBM Selectric II. Linda's Letters. '287­4971. 
Need ride for one lovely girl from Pittsburgh & back for An Tostal Week­end. She can pay, she can drive, and she's good company! Call 6734. 
Connecticut baggage truck to Hartford and New Haven areas. Call Jim 3267 or Kevin 3361 for information. 
FLANNER RECORDS INVENTORY CLEARANCE SALE: All $7.98 LP's in stock only $4.79. All $6.98 list LP's in stock only $4.39. All double LP's specially priced. Flanner Records 322 Flanner ph. 2741 Hours: M-Thu 4-5, 6:30-8:00 
NEED QUALITY TYPING? Executary, Inc. Professional Typing Service IBM Correcting Selectrics. $.85 per page minimum. Call 232-0898 "When you want the Best'' Resumes: $3.00 per page. 
Notice: Attention all ND-AMC Logan Center volunteers and interested stu­dents. Come to the Logan picnic this Saturday, April 22nd, from 1-4:30 p.m. on the grounds of Holy Cross Hall, Notre Dame, on the shore of St. Mary's Lake. Lots of good hot dogs and good softball, dodgeball, etc. A car will pick up SMC students for the picnic at 12:45 at the holy Cross circle. Volunteers wishing to work with kids from the Children's hospital should meet at NISH. at 1:00 Saturday. All other volunteers meet at Holy Cross Hall by the lake at 1:00. There will be no Saturday rec this Saturday, we are having the picnic instead. Any questions please call Mike Woldhan at 1216 or Sue McKinney at 4-1-4783. 
FOR RENT 
1-bedroom apartment to sublet for sum­mer. Good location. security, good terms. Call 288-725~. 
Staying for the summer? Rent a house and live off campus. Lower summer rent, close to campus, call 8730 or 8742 for more details. 
------------------[
Fine houses in good neighborhoods (Portage and Angela area). Reasonable rents. For 4-5 or 6 students. Contact Joseph Gatto 234-6688. 
LOST & FOUND 
Lost: SMC campus gold pearl bracelet. Great sentimental value. Please call Tere­sita 4-1-4197. 
Found: General Motors car keys in the field behind the ACC. Call 2132. 
Found: Timex watch by Saint Mary's lake. Call 2132. 
Lost: Blue NO jacket at Nickie's. Reward. Name in jacket. 
Kenosha, Wisconsin, one month ago. Sullivan and Vaggo won gold medals for finishing first in sabre and epee, respectively. ­
Sophomore Chris Lyons was awarded most valuable sabre fenc­er. The transfer from Holy Cross Junior College posted a 30-10 mark in his first year of competition. Vaggo, who completed his first year with the Irish after transfer­ring from Sweden, received the most valuable award in epee for posting a 30-2 mark. Gerard, who graduates with the second highest all-time Irish winning percentage in foil, was selected most valuable in that weapon. 
Lost: Gold bracelet at Cinnabar's at Junior Semi-Formal last Sunday night. $25 reward. Call Roseanne at 4-1-4719. 
lost: One roommate-last see'n in vicinity of Campus View. If found. contact Berb or Art 853. 
Found: One extra roommate -will sell cheap. Call Patty, Mary or Beth 272­2340. 
Found: Set of G M car keys. Pick up at Observer office. Must identify Found in 01 
Lost: to the guy who picked me up hitching on NO Ave. Thur. 4-13, you were listening ~o a George Harrison tape. The red folder is mine. Please help and call Mike 287-5568. 
WANTED 
Need ride to Purdue this Friday, back Sunday. Brian 3383. 
OVERSEAS JOBS-Summer-Year-round. Europe, S. America, Australia, Asia, etc. All fields, $500-1200 monthly, expenses paid, sightseeing. Free information ­Write: BHP Co., Box 4490, Dept. 14, berkeley, CA 94704. 
Need ride to Pittsburgh. Leave Friday 
2:15 return Monday eve. One way or both ways. Call Steve 288-0088. 
New restaurant needs waitresses and kitchen help. Experience helpful, but not necessary. Apply in person after 1p.m. at Aunt Mike's Breakfast Barn, 51277 U.S. 31 N. one block N of Auten Rd. South Bend. Ask for Aunt Mike. 
Waitresses needed -full or part time for local nite club. Must be 21. Looking especially for girls staying here this summer. Good pay -apply at Vegetable Buddies. 
I'd like to purchase a compact refreg­erator at the end of this year. Call Tim at 1724. Thanks' 
TENNIS PROS AND ASSISTANT PROS­Seasonal and year­round clubs; good playing and teaching background. Call (301) 654-3770, or send 2 complete resumes and 2 pictures to: Col. R. Reade, W.T.S., 8401 Connecticut Avenue, Suite 1011, Chevy Chase, MD 20015. 
Need 1 or more female grad students to share apt. at Michigan in Sept. Call Claire 289-6533. 
Need 1or more female grad students to share apt. at I.U. in Sept. Call Beth 289-6533. 
Need ride to ISU (Normal) April 21. Call Mike 3266. 
FOR SALE 
71 MGB-GT sacrifice-288-9614 aft. 5. 
Last offer. Classical Ovation guitar with new hard case. Perfect condition. $225.00 Call Gene 1694. 
Senior Mike Markel was honored as the top student athlete on the squad. The award, presented by the Notre Dame Alumni Club of St. Joseph Valley, is given to the individual who best combines his athletic and academic skills. 
Senior Bill Kica was awarded the Walter Langford Award for the contribution most significant to the team. The award is in honor of former Irish fencing coach Langford, who also se1rved as Professor in the Language Depart­ment. The second annual Dit Langford Memorial Award, in memory ofthe former coach's wife, was awarded to Kathy Valdiserri 
Technics turntable-Model SL1400MK2 professional series, direct drive. Mint condition -only 2 weeks old. Need money! Call Mark 233-5256. 
A girl's AMF roaclmaster bicycle for sale. Good condition. Best offer. Call4-1-4001. 
Full color Cotton Bowl and USC football; UCLA, Kentucky and Maryland basket­ball pictures for sale. Sports illustrated material at alow price. Call Doug at 8982 or stop by 318 Zahm. 
Stereo Equipment. Major brand dis­counts on fully guaranteed, factory­sealed audio·vicleo eqpt. Elliot Enter­prises, Park Court, Buchanan, Mich. 491 07. Call Niles toll free 683-0121. 
Used golf balls · like new, $200 per 100 and other prices. Call 272-0783. 
Kodak 110 pocket instamatic 20 camera and flash attachment used one year $10. 272-2340 between 4 and 7 p.m. 
Realistic stereo cassette playllack deck. Automatic shutoff. Excellent condition. $40.00. Call 272-2340 between 4 and 7 p.m. 
A 1971 Chevrolet Impala. has power steering and power brakes, air condition­ing. Call1681. 
Gibson LG-S !JUitar. erfect condition. $325. Call Terry 288-3706. 
PERSONALS 
Vote for Alumnis favorite dog: Otto for UMOC. 
Class of '81 "t:ommunicate your spirit" Vote: Sweeney, Hill, Megargle, Dornbos. 
Patty Gibbons, Happy 22nd birthday. Don't get too drunk, you old lady. Your "old" roorll/llate. 
Lisa Babe, Happy 2 yrs and 7 months! You're beautiful' With all my love!! I 
Tommie 
BONTE and BLUM will always be willing tro work enthusiastically. Vote Sponte­Blum Nccandless Hall Officers, Apr. 24. 
Vote Andrew Smith UMOC. 
Tim: I hereby challenge you to a drink-off when? Dope awareness week, of course. Guess who 
This is just to let all you guys know that you are al like just sooo rude!!! 
Painterly, Thanks for everything. I love you. Lenearly 
Good luck Denisa & Maureen I Sandy 
Dear Discoing Lyonettes: Well the long drought is over! The disco kid is back to boogie! Sorry you've been out of the personals for so long, but life isn't all sunshine and roses for us disco kids you know. Love, O.K. 
Much to be done for the class of 81. Vote Trigiani, Maccio, Shaughnessy, Bellock 
for her contributions to women's fencing at Notre Dame. Langford was on hand to present both awards. 
Senior Mike McCahey received the John Crikelair Memorial Award for his dedication to the foil squad. The Steve Donlon Memorial Award, presented annually to the top epee competitor, was given to senior John Strass. Sullivan was the recipient of the Dan Mulligan Memorial Award, given to the top sabre contributor. 
Karen Lacity was honored as the most valuable fencer in women's foil and was elected as captain for the Irish women in 1979. 
We are ready willing and able to work for you. Class 81 Vote Trigiani, Maccio, Shaughnessy, Bellock 
Strong people for abig job. Vote Trigiani, Maccio, Shaughnessy, Bellock, Class 81. 
Rosemary, Glad you're back! Bill 
Reject No. 2, Thanks for Saturday nite, I had a great time. 
Reject No.1 
Bagels, Wildly antisipating this weekend. A quasi-eschatos perhaps? 
T.S.A.L.F. 
Don't miss the Library Happy Hour 6-9 
p.m. today! 
Christopher Robin, The backgammon set Is waiting on the balcony. Don't worry there are no more werewolves around to scare off an excitable boy. 
Juliet 

of the power of the other schools," said O'Sullivan. "Ohio State is , :-anked third in the United States and just has some great players. I am very proud and thrilled with the team's performance in this tour­
nament. My players are super 
adjusters and thinkers. They rely 
on the basics." 
Ohio State, as was expected, 
received the tournament trophy for 
their first place finish. Miami of 
Ohio snatched second place, ten 
strikes better than the Irish, and 
Big Ten runner-up Indiana grabbed 
the third spot, nipping the Irish by 
only seven strokes. 
As far as individual honors are 
concerned, Rich Knee entered a 
tournament total of 228 which was 
good enough for sixth place in a 
field comiJrised of 150 players. 
Jerry Vidivich, from Illinois State, 
garnered all individual honors by 
posting a 54-hole total of 222. 
Notre Dame's Dave Knee finished 
with a 233 and Tim Sacheck with a 
235. 

Next Saturday the Irish travel to 
West Lafayette for the Purdue 
Invitational. The Irish are anxious 
to improve upon, or at least equal, 
last year's second place finish. 
Every meet is of crucial importance 
if the Irish wish to make the District 
and NCAA Tournaments. O'Sulli­
van is intensely optimistic and 
believes that team consistency and 
fine play will make an NCAA bid a 
reality. 
Disco Ed hipless wonder of Cavanaugh only 3 days till you can strut your stuff. We will all be waiting and watching. 
Dear SMC Class of 81, HAVE A HEART...Give us a chance. Vote-Arrieh, Fink, Krauss, McManus 

STUDENT UNION SERVICES COMMISSION AND THE OBSERVER PRESENT THE FIRST 
Year End 
Oassified Paper 
Advertisements can be for: 
Couches  Parties  
Chairs  Rides  
Rugs  Books  
Refrigerators  Final Good-byes  

ANYTHING ElSE YOU CAN THINK OF .PRICES: 15 Words or less: $.50 plus .25 for Every Additional 5 Word ads will be sold April 19, .20, Jf during Dinner North g SG'~'h Dini~C!_.~~-~s-~ 
12 the observer 
TILCS survive near Bookstore upset 
By Frank LaGrotta removing his sweats. follow the Bookstore rules." accuracy hitting four of six Pat Kennedy (12 of 18) to beat Sports Writer The second day of the tourna­In the premier game of the day, attempts. John Connors also had Short B.H. 21-10. Bruce Bernhold ment began on a contraversial note the two-time defending champion four points for the Chumps, while hit on six of nine shots and stole 20 
There's something about Book­as Tournament Commissioner Leo TILCS V ran into a feisty P.F. and Dan Murphy scored four and Mike rebounds for the winners. store Basketball that really brings Latz was forced to disqualify Waste the Flyers team but managed to Oddi three for the losers. In other scores it was: O-Men by out the "iron" in a man. Whether from the tournament becausEoneof pull out a 21-18 victory. The No.-1 "No one could shoot, but it was 16; Not-Ready-For-Bookstore Bas­
you'rc wading through water their players had participated in ranked Tiles were paced by two­great game anyway," might be a ketball Players by 3; Joe Ponsetto's puddles or tripping on cracks in the another game. The disqualifica­time Bookstore MVP Dave Batton good way to describe the Average All-American Load Team by 11; pavement, it's generally conceeded tion, the second one in the tourney who dropped his last seven shots to Wbite Backs' 21-15 win over Five Meg 'n Marie by 8; Schnoz and the that "you gotta be tough to play thus far, allowed Waste's first­finish with 13 points on 23 Guys From a Seven-Man Suite That Four Hankies by 2; Wells Vargo by Bookstore." round opponents. Uranus and the attempts. Batton also hauled in 17 Got Pimped By the Best Two 10; Monk and the Cowls by 8; Yesterday was no exception as C.M. to advance to second-round rebounds to lead the game in that Players In the Room. Has-Beens and Never Were by the thermometer dropped to 40 play. category. Joe Montana grabbed For A.W.B. the big gun was 6;Condo 4 Plus 1 by 6; It Doesn't degrees and even the toughest "l really hate to disqualify any seven rebounds and blocked six Terry Eurick who dropped seven of Rub Off by 6; Kreetun Club by 8; campus eager thought twice before team," said Latz, "but I have to shots for the winners. 17 shots and collected 12 rebounds. King Feisal's Home For the Men­
For the Flyers it was smart The "big gunner" for the backs tally Insane by 7; Nobody Does it passing and balanced scoring that was Steve Orsini. The Hummels­Better by 8 and A. Explosions by kept them in the game. Paul Flood town, PA native put on a display of 11. led the team with five points while "Steelton Ball" as hecouldonly find The seventh annual Bookstore Jeff Hannipel, Mike Morse and the hoop on five of 23 attempts. On Basketball Tournament continues Mike Dalton had four apiece. the boards, A.W.B was tough as tonight at 4'oclock on all three 
While the TILCS were fighting Steve Schmitz grabbed 16 re­courtsites. Featured games behind for their lives, Leo's Last was bounds, Phil Volpe, eight and the bookstore include: 5:30-Green methodically disposing of their Charles Weiss, five. Popcorm (led by Gilbert Salinas) opponents on the next court. Led For the "Five Guys That Got versus Lumpy; 6:30 The Butcher by two-time All-Bookstore selection Pimped," Jim Blaha led the scor­Brothers (featuring Bruce Flowers, Dana Snoap, the last squad to ing column with seven points in 22 Dave Huffman and Kevin Hart) register in this year's tourney attempts. Bill Pollack dropped four versus Not Over in Rome and T.B. dropped Karl Wallenda and the buckets and grabbed 13 rebounds Express III (led by Stan "Silky" Four High-Flyers a 21-5 loss. while Phil Russo contributed 10 Wilcox) versus the Mo Fandsome Snoap was next to flawless from the boards. All in all both teams took a Five. Also at 6:30 on Stepan l, field as he connected on seven of total of 128 shots in the game but Linda Lovelace and the Gang that eight shots. When he wasn't only 36 found the hoop. C.B.S. (with Randy Haefner, Doug scoring he was grabbing stray Karl Wallenda's Taxi Cab Ser­Becker and Pete Johnson) take on shots and he wound up with 15 vice relied on the hot shooting of the Orest Movement and Some rebounds. Frenchie Hess (six of seven) and Four-flushers. 
Rusty Lisch hit on six of thirteen attempts, including three-slam­dunks, while Steve McDaniels shot 50 percent, dropping four of eight. Jeff Carpenter scored three points 

Media Menaces
and grabbed five rebounds while Marty Mooney turned in six boards for the winners. Clyde Iverson hit three buckets for the losers. 
Tom Sudkamp. making a bid to retain his "Mr. Bookstore" title, 

In recent years Howard Cosell hasn't exactly been baseLall's biggest led Chumps Too to a 21-12 decision 
supporter. No one has seen him reach to pick up a bat or a glove or even a over O.F.P.D. "Suds" displayed 
ticket to a game. Only with his recent association with ABC's Monday finesse and court-sense en route to 
Night Baseball has Cosell's name been linked with the National Pastime. a nine-point. seven-rebound per­Therefore, it was of little surprise to anyone last week when Howard formance. His frontcourt partner. was quoted in the Chicago Tribune as not liking Chicago White Sox Bill "Foo" Hanzlik hit four shots, announcer Harry Caray. After all. Caray is a baseball man, as outspoken 
including a beautiful one-handed 

as Coscll, and as controversial as Howard. But, the underlying notions jumper, and garnered seven re­
are worth considering. bounds while his roomatc. Dave 

The unspoken rule in past years has been for announcers to refrain "Jo Jo" Marcel displayed deadeye 
from knocking one another in public. Play-by-play announcers have almost formed their own union. But. Coscll chose to ignore that association and vocalize his feelings about Caray. The battle lines have been drawn. 
On one side, you have the universally-hated yet well-respected by his peers Cosell. Some have accused him of a New York partiality, but his 
Tom McLaughlin, assistant bas­any of the normal transition pro­his degree in political science. knowledge of the New York sports scene simply is superior to that of most ketball coach at Stanford Univer­blems for Tom." A native of New York City, he other announcers. All one needs to do is not blind to the situation. sity, has been named to a similar McLaughlin, 28, played profes­earned All-City honors at Fordham Standing on the other side of the fence is Caray. whose style has at least position at the University of Notre sional basketball in Switzerland Prep. He has coached at the Notre endeared him to the hearts of White Sox fans if to no one else. Caray's Dame replacing Dick Kuchen who from 1973 to 1975, following his Dame summer camp and also at style of broadcasting is forcing the media person to attempt to redefine the recently became head coach at the graduation from Massachusetts. In Red Auerbach's camp in Cape role of the sportscaster. Is he simply a company man. hired by a team or a University of California at Berk­his professional career, he aver­Cod. sponsor to publicize the team on the air? Or is he an objective reporter, eley. aged 34 points a game his first McLaughlin's older brother covering one team constantly but remaining unbiased in his coverage of 
McLaughlin, a 1973 graudate of season, leading his team to a fifth Frank, another former Irish assis­events? the University of Massachusetts, place finish among 30 teams. As a tant, is now head coach at Harvard The answer lies somewhere in the middle. Yes, sportscasting has served for three years on the staff player-coach during the 1974-75 University. become a form of entertainment. No longer does the sports fan want to of head coach Dick DiBiaso, a season, he averaged 28 points per McLaughlin and his wife Debbie hear the gravely-voiced conservative announcer who only speaks about former Notre Dame assistant under game and led his squad to a third will move to South Bend in early what happens on the tield. Sports fans now want an announcer who will Richard "Digger" Phelps. At place national finish. May. inject wit and humor into the broadcast while remaining calm and casual. Stanford McLaughlin also served During his collegiate career, The question remains, though. docs the fan want a "cheerleader?" as recruiting coordinator. McLaughlin averaged in double 
Irish assistant coach named 
Frankry. it turns my stomach to hear announcers like Jack Brickhouse "We are really happy in being figures as a starting forward for 
and Harry Caray, those that can be seen on television sets with cable able to have Tom join our staff," three years. A teammate of Julius 
*Observer 

hookups daily. These announcers lose track of team names, instead the Phelps reported, "and we are Erving, McLaughlin competed in 
teams become "we" and "they." They will actually cheer an error by the indebted to Coach DiBiaso for his the National Invitation Tournament 
team opposing the Cubs or Sox. They will try to incite excitement among help in making this possible. Since three times. He was named the U. 
the viewers by offering up dandies like, "C'mon fellas, let's get a little
Sports 

rally going here." similar programs there won't be his senior year, prior to receipt of 
Stanford and Notre Dame run Mass outstanding scholar-athlete 
But, nothing nauseates me more than seeing Caray hang out of the broadcast booth during the seventh-inning stretch at Comiskey Park leading the crowd in an intoxicated version of "Take Me Out to the Ball Game."
Flowers, Laimbeer selected as 
Brickhouse and Caray are examples of gross perversions of the sportscasting industry. The announcer is supposed to be a self-respecting individual who reports on the action of a game in an entertaining by
captains for 78-79 cage season 
professional manner. Brickhouse and Caray treat professionalism as if it was a social disease. 
Notre Dame Basketball coach Notre Dame history to have gather­Notre Dame record-tying six shots. Now, I'm as much for entertainment among broadcasters as the next ~)igger Phelps announced today ed over 500 rebounds by the end of In South Bend he scored 14 points person. But, the line has to be drawn somewhere, and where it is to be 1hat center duo Bruce Flowers and his junior year. Flowers has a and grabbed seven rebounds ag­drawn has been lost in the hometown cheers of the "cheerleader." Bill Laimbcer will cocaptain the reputation as an excellent defens­ainst the Bruins. He was also This is a problem that will have to be dealt with in the near future. No 1978-79 Fighting Irish basketball ive player. He has been selected as brilliant against Houston in the first one can deny the emphasis that the media has upon sports and vice-versa, team. The pair of pivotmen played the club's top defender the last two round of the NCAA tournament and now the role of the announcer is being changed by the ''New Breed." significant roles in Notre Dame's seasons. when he came off the bench to I only shudder at what announcers like Russ Hodges. Mel Allen, Red successful (23-8) 1977-78 season Laimbeer aided the Irish as a score a career high 20 points on Barber and Vin Scully would think of the performances of Brickhouse and that was culminated with its first starter and a reserve in 1977-78. his 7-for-9 field goal accuracy and Caray. appearance in the final four of the The 6-11 center started the first 14 collected nine rebounds. Supporters of the "cheerleader" school wil argue that since the NCAA Tournament. games last year until he suffered a Laimbeer led Notre Dame in announcer is hired by the team, he is obligated to slant his reporting 
Flowers will be the only senior on sprained ankle and cracked left rebounds per minute last season by toward the team, but, the announcer has his primary obligation to the next year's team. The rugged 6-9 wrist in the second UCLA game. grabbing 190 missed shots in 654 audience, not to the team. And he must remember that everyone who is playl·r started 27 games last year at He came off the bench and split the minutes. He also shot 55.4 from watching or listening is not a fan of that team. Therefore, the "we" and forward: or center. An outstand­playing time in the pivot with the field, and averaged 8.1 points "they" should be eliminated. ing shooter, he led Notre Dame in Flowers over the last IS contests. and 6.6 rebounds per game. This trend disturbs me because I have spent my four collegiate years tield goal percentage his freshman The Toledo, Ohio native was Laimbeer will be a junior next preparing for a career in sportscasting. I have attempted to listen to and and sophomore seasons and has a outstanding in both victories ag­season, the first underclassman study many of the so-called professionals. It's really a shame that more .551' mark for his career. !'he ainst UCLA. At Pauley Pavilion he captain of the Irish since Adrian people don't do the same. If Jack Brickhouse and Harry Caray can be Huntington Woods, Michigan na­scored 10 points, grabbed a game­Dantley and: Bill Paterno guided the models of sportscasting in the second-largest market in America, then, tive is one of only 10 players in high nine rebounds and blocked a the 1975-76 club. maybe Im headed in the wrong direction. 
~ 






