
Schedules remain the same 
system of reducing energy con-Although the amount of power return to its normal heating setting by Marti Hogan Michigan Electric Company (I&M) sumption in his building. As a ND buys from I&M varies, I&M to see how much energy this Editor-in-Chief must continue to receive small result, no universal cutbacks have now supplies "roughly" 25 percent consumes," Lindower said. If the 
amounts of coal for the school to been determined. of the University's power. "We heating takes a great deal of 
No lengthened vacation, inde­remain open. SMC, on the other hand, have taken voluntary deductions of energy, it will probably be cut back pendent study days or Saturday Notre Dame plans to stay open continues to enforce the cutbacks 25 percent from I&M and cut our tomorrow, he said, but it may stay classes are in store for students, even if schools are forced to cut President John Duggan requested usage down to 18.75 percent," at the nol'Il!al setting until I&M according to officials from Notre their usage of electricity 50 per­in His Feb. 16 letter to the Riehle said. Notre Dame buys reaches the 40-day level. Dame and Saint Mary's. Both cent, according to Fr. James community. Lindower expressed more power from I&M during the No outside lighting with the schools believe they will have Riehle, director of energy conser­satisfaction with the present con-summer months, Riehle explained, exception of the lights in the sufficient energy supplies to keep vation at Notre Dame. "There is vations efforts on campus. because it then lacks the energy Madeleva and McCandless parking the schools open at least until no talk of closing," he said. As of Monday, ND's coal supply which is normally produced lfrom lots will be turned off, Lindower spring break. The ND Energy Conservation was at the 57-day level, while I&M the steam used to heat the build­said. He explained that a third 
"At this point, we will make it to Committee decided yesterday to announced yesterday morning that ings in the winter. SMC security patrol car has been spring vacation assuming nothing ask that every building on campus it had a 44-day supply left. I&M According to Lindower, SMC is added to see students safely to adverse happens," said Jason reduce its power usage 15 percent. plans to enforce 50 percent cut-also operating under the voluntary their dorms after the lights in the Lindower, SMC controller. He Each building's supervisor is re­backs for schools if its supply dips 25 percent cutback, but has actual­parking lots go out at 10 p.m. added, however, that Indiana and sponsible for determining the best to the forty day level. ly cut back to a 40 percent savings ND is "not going to touch 
and is aiming for a 50 percent campus lighting," Riehle stated.· cutback level. Riehle is asking hall rectors to 
Beginning today, the College appoint "watt watchers" in the plans to experiment with the residence halls. These "watchers" heating system of Madeleva. would help halls guard against Recently the temperature in this wasted energy. "Students can cut building has been extremely low, down 30 percent without too much forcing students to wear their coats difficulty," Riehle said, "but if in class. "Because it has been so everyone cuts back 15 percent, uncomfortable, Madeleva will. we'll be okay." 

The 
Roche receives SU director nomination 
by Jack Pizzolato Roche's experience, his hard work­Senior Staff Reporter ing attitude, and his efforts in the Services Commission as well as Sophomore Bill Roche has been other areas, indicated his ability to 
Vol. XII, No. 88 nominated for the Student Union 

Observer-
run the Union and to be most (SU) director's spot by the Union's effective at it." five-member Steering Committee. SU Services Commissioner Mike 
Roche was selected late Monday Schlageter, another Steering Com­night from aiJlong six candidates mittee member, observed that ''no 
who had applied for the SU matter who we picked, they would directorship. have made a good director. We ''I'm really excited," Roche had a lot of well qualified condi­exclaimed, only moments after his dates. We tried," Schlageter 
SMC '21 Club' to celebrate 
grand opening this Friday 
nomination had been announced, continued, "to picture someone we adding "I've been looking forward thought would be the ideal direc­the bar Frida}" afternoon and "Members should be aware of to this." Roche, who is presently tor, someone who could work withby Jean Powley Saturday night. Club rules will be this rule and not bring more guests assistant services commissioner for the students, then turn around andSaint Mary's Editor printed on the back of the card. than they can be responsible for. 
the Student Union, will need the talk with Fr. Hesburgh." He At present, there is no limit on Although this rule sounds ridicu­approval of the student govern­added that, "I've worked withSaint Mary's new "21-Ciub", the number of guests a member lous and is seldom enforced, we ment's Board of Commissioners Roche and he seemed a cut abovelocated in the snack bar beneath may bring. According to Ruka­want to abide by all of the rules so before becoming the new SU the rest."
the dining hall, will celebrate its vina, however, if the privilege is we can stay open," she stated. For director. The Board is scheduled to The SU Steering Committeegrand opening this weekend with a abused, a limit will be set. The the same reason, carding will be consider his nomination this Sun­began interviewing candidates forBeach Boys Happy Hour Friday · most important consideration in strict and no ·free drinks will be day night at 7:15p.m. If approved, the director's post Monday evening afternoon from 3 p.m. to 5:30p.m.• this respect concerns an Indiana dispensed. 
Roche will replace outgoing SU at 6:30 p.m. and finished at 9:30in addition to its normal hours of 8 law which stipulates that only club Manager of the new bar is Steve Director Tom Gryp on April I. p.m. After a short break, theyp.m. to 2 a.m. on Saturday. members be permitted to purchase Ryan, a first year law student at Gryp, who is a member of the deliberated untill1:30 p.m., whenSpecials on beer and wine will run liquor. Therefore, members will be Notre Dame. The rest of the staff Steering Committee, noted that all the decision for Roche wasthroughout the weekend. responsible for buying their guests' will be chosen later this week. 
the applicants interviewed for the announced. Although the Commit­liquor for them. This rule will Approximately 150 applications
According to Student Body Pres­director's position were very quali­tee has declined to release the ident Rukavina, a pool table, probably be enforced by stamping were received for the various fied. "It was a very, very hard actual vote, they agreed before the 
the hands of guests when they positions, according to Mary Laver­decision to make," he remarked, meeting that at least a four to onefoosball and computer games have enter. ty, Director of Student Activities. 
majority would be necessary tobeen rented in an effort to "provide "but the Committee felt that Bill 



a nice, pleasant alternative to the local bars." Rugs have been purchased, and a stereo system, as well as a juke box, have also been installed. Large black jack cards, consistent with the "21-Club" theme, will adorn the walls. 
"Lack of funds hindered us somewhat," Rukavina explained, "so we haven't been able to do as much as we had hoped to. But each year the bar will get better as each new administration adds things. Next year, for instance, we hope they add strobe lights for the 
Never let it be said that 
dance floor and a television." The present administration's Notre Dame can be out­biggest investment was the two-tap 
done by the Gong Show.
portable bar. Budweiser and Miller Lite will be the beers 
The Fight Irish boast their 
available. 
own 'Gene, Gene, the Theme nights and specials will 
dancin' machine! But
be the norm, Rukavina said. "We want to give something to every­who is this man? [photo one. We plan to cater to our crowd," she stated. This weekend by John Calcutt] will be Beach Boys and 50s and early 60s music. Future plans provide for having a disco week­end, bringing in local folk singers, and having specials for certain Notre Dame and St. Mary's halls on certain nights. "For instance, on a certain night only people from Augusta and Howard will be able to take advantage of the specials,'' Rukavina explained. 
"21-Ciub" bar cards will be available to all SMC-ND students over 21, faculty, staff, administra­tion, and alumni for $2 in the LeMans lobby from 10 a.m. to 4 nominate a new director. 
In that same session, the Steering Committee also named Junior Accounting major Maureen Carney as the Student Union's new comptroller. Carney, who has worked closely this year with outgoing SU Comptroller Colleen McGrath, was the only student to apply for the position: "Things ran smoothly this year," Carney said, "and I plan to continue the same procedures with modifications to fit my own style of doing things." One of the "modifications" she mentioned was more internal con­trol of Student Union funds. 
Roche has been a member of the Student Union since his freshman year,.working with various commis­sions on such projects as summer storage, concerts, and the renova­tion of the LaFortune Student Center. "I enjoy working with the Union and I've wanted to get a sense of the whole operation," Roche said. "I realized a couple of months ago that maybe the oppor­tunity to be director was opening up." 
If he is approved· Sunday, Roche noted that he would count heavily on the other candidates for the director's office to fill key positions on his staff. "But I would be looking for new people too,'' he stressed. Roche also stated that if he becomes director he would concentrate on establishing the goals and objectives of the Student Union and work towards improving the social situation on campus, strengthening the Union's relation­ship with the Observer and the Hall President's Council, and elimi­


. -p.m. tomorrow and Friday, and atn ~-..:......~.;..;.___;__ __,:....;._..;......._.....!.,:...;;..:::;.;_____________:._:...:..::...:...::·-··..:.--::..~·.::..'';;...···;;...·...;'·;..:.'···::..·''::..··'.:..'.:..·.:..·-·'::...;•:...:.......:.......:.....;;J ·, .. nating.misallocated funds. 
I) 
Wednesday, February 22, 1978
the oburver 

,_News Briefs~---........ 
t=-=====================================World 
Egypt blamed .for shootout 
. 

NICOSIA, Cyprus)-President Spyros Kyprianou blamed Egypt yesterday for the shootout between Cypriot troops and Egyptian commandos at Larnaca airport but said he was ready to hold a reconciliation meeting with President Anwar Sadat. "We are ready to do everything possible for the restoration of friendly relations between Cyprus and Egypt," Kyprianou told a news conference. "I 
•hope there will be a favorable response from the Egyptian side." 

============================== National 


Copper dollar coins possible 
WASHINGTON -The Treasury Department, which two years ago resurrected the !2 bill, now wants to bring back a shrunken-and mostly copper-version of the once-popular silver dollar. The department also told Congress it has rejected proposals to eliminate the half-dollar and that it wants to keep the penny indefinitely. The reason behind the proposed shift to copper dollar coins is economic. The proposed coin will cost between two and three cents to produce and will last at least 15 years. In comparison, a paper dollar costs only I.7 cents to produce but wears out quickly. 
-::::=::::============================= Local 


Strike forces Ind. layo_f.fs 
INDIANA -Layoffs forced by the nation-wide coal strike jumped to almost 3,000 in Indiana yesterday, a figure that state officials feared would snowball after a third big utility said it expected to impose mandatory power cutbacks next week. Indiana & Michigan Electirc Co., with 351,000 customers, reported its coal stockpiles at a 43-day supply yesterday, but said that will drop to the 40-day point by Monday, triggering mandatory curtailments. I&M is the state's second-largest electric utility, serving the northeastern quarter of the state, including the cities of South Bend and Fort Wayne. 

WEATHER 
Increasing cloudiness and a little warmer today. Highs in the upper 
20s. A 40 percent chance for light snow tonight and tomorrow. 
Lows tonight in the mid teens. Highs tomorrow around 30. 

~On Campus Today_---.... 
12:15 pm 3:30pm 
4:30pm 
5:15pm 6:30pm 7 pm 
7:30pm 8 pm 
8:15pm 9:30pm 
. , 

mass, gr. griffin, celebrant, Iafortune ballroom. 
seminar, "fan & compressor technology for aircraft propulsion," melvin j. hartmann, chief of fan and compressor div., lewis research center, nasa. 303 
engr.  bldg.,  sponsored by  aero  &  mech.  engr.,  
public invited.  
lecture,  "projective  structures  &  associated  

metrics," prof. shoshichi kobayaski, u of calif. berkeley. 226 ccmb sponsored by math department. 
faster's mass, fr. charles sheedy celebrant, spon­sored by nd hunger coalition. 
meeting, sailing club, film, "spirit of the wind," 204 engr. bldg. 
film, "how to say no to a rapist and survive," sponsored by academic commission and nd security, lyons hall chapel. 
demonstration, kreskin, stepan center, sponsored by suac, $1 
lecture, "basic needs: premises and promises," paul streeten, world bank, hayes-yealy aud., sponsored by econ dept. 
recital, william cerny, piano; music of schumann, sponsored by music dept., lib. aud., public invited. 
talk, james & mary ann roemer, "the shared ministry of marriage," lenten series. st.'s chapel. 
I 
*The Observer 
"Birthday Party" Host: Rosemary Mills. Guests: John Doudanville, Sue Johnston, Mary Phelan, Anne Bever, Lenore Koczon Present: Kathy Mills Game Pannner: Ray O'Brien Clean-up Committee: Mary J o Cushing Rich Clarizio, Beth Ri.;zzo, Mark Rust Birthday Boy: me (alias Tom Powanda) Cake Bakers: Kathy Conelly, Lynn Roberts (SMC) Magician: Jerry Perez Decorations: Big Butch Photographer: John Calcutt 

Coal industry will not accept tentative contract agreement 
WASHINGTON [AP] • The nation's soft-coal industry said yesterday that a tentative contract agreement between the striking United Mine Workers unioft and a major independent operator is unacceptable as an industry-wide settlement. 
However, top officials of the Bituminous Coal Operators Associ­ation said they were ready for a prompt resumption of contract talks in the 78-day-old strike . 
Meanwhile, President Jimmy semement by tomorrow, but he said the House was ready to act on special legislation to end the strike, should Carter request it. 

"The administration would not come here unless they felt it were a dire emergency," he said . 
But Republican National Chair­man Bill Brock called on Carter to invoke the Taft-Hartley Act, which could result in a back-to-work order against the 166,000 striking miners 
''The time is long past due for rre~JOent Larter to d1splay the leadership and fortitude he promised the American people when he was campaigning for office," Brock said. 
The administration is consider­ing three "final" steps to deal with the strike or a combination of the three. The choices include invoking the Taft-Hartley Act; asking Congress for legislation to seize the mines; or asking for legislation to impose binding arbi­tration in the dispute. 
Carter won bipartisan congression-· r.~.,--,~-""1'....~-----------------, 
al support to take strong steps to end the walkout, but the adminis­tration continued to play a waiting game in hopes the two parties would settle the dispute them­selves. 
House Speaker Thomas P. O'Neill said after meeting with the president that he felt it would be at least 25 days more before the coal strike could tie up the nation economically. The strike already has led to power curtailments and job layoffs in some areas. 
Key executives of the BCOA, the industry's bargaining arm, met for several hours to study .a tentative contract .agreeement reached Monday by the union and the Pittsburg & Midway Coal Mining Co., a major independent pro­ducer. 
The industrysresponse came in a letter from BCOA President E.B. Leisenring to West Virginia Gov. Jay Rockefeller. "So that no one is under any illusions, we plan to vigorously present our case to the union bargainers so that true collective bargaining in good faith can be accomplished in the interests of all concerned,'' Leisenring wrote. 
''Free collective bargaining means just that: each party must be free to bargain in good faith without th{! threat of reprisals." 
L . . I t ld R k f II ·~++++ +++++++++++++++++++++++••••
e1senrmg a so o . oc e e er 
t p f • 
that "certain collective bargaining •Pre St Patr1·ck's Day ar Y•. 
matters which we negotiated in t • • + good faith... were not dealt with + t adequately" in the P & M agree-+ t me~. t 
Rockefeller and other coal state+ & G sh t t 
governors had urged the industry. 
ong 0 w a : negotiators to go back to the+ + bargaining table. Government and t + industry sources said several: • 
:~?~~~~n~:: g~~::~~ie:on~~~~~ Gl·useppe'S :
the proposal as the basis for an • t industry-wide settlement. • t "Obviously, everybody is going. t to take a look at it,'' said an • t 
industry source. • S t F b 25th 9pm 2am :
Although the P&M agreement • a •I e • • • •t still requires ratification by its 700 • t UMW employees, it gives an • t 
indication of what the union·s: 
$2•OO Plenty of Beer.'·:
bargaining council will accept. 
Energy Secretary James 1 1 Schlesinger said the administration • + was watching to see whether the • t P&M agreement would lead to. Sponsored by SMC Social Commission • productive talks between BCOA • : and the union. He said the • t 
administration will "wait it out a leo • • ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••..... 
I  A Touch of the Poet  
~  Eugene O'Neill's  
SMC  search for his roots. Feb., 24,25 Mar. 2,3,4  at 8  

T H E A T R E All seats $2.50 Phone: $2 std-fac-staff 284-4176 
O'Laughlin Aud. 
Ji£ a:111azin!J 




d'ires#:in 
re,turnsl 
JeG.. 22.----7:30p;n,_ .Ste.pan -41-00 
bit longer" before resorting to tougher actions. 
White House Press Secretary Jody Powell declined to issue a precise timetable for a decision. "This is the week in which a major decision is going to have to be made," he said. 
Carter, meeting with Republican and Democratic congressional leaders at the White House, won support for "whatever he needs to do," according to Senate Republi­can Leader Howard Baker of Tennessee. 
O'Neill told reporters the admin­istration is hoping for a negotiated 
The Observer Is published Mon­d•y through Frkl•y except during ex•m encl vKIItlon periods. Tile Observer Is published by the students of Notre D•me •nd S.lnt M•l"f's Coli•••· Subscriptionsm8y be p&lrch8Sed for S20 per ye8r CS 1 o per semester) from The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre D•me, lndl•n• 46556. Second cl•ss post..e p•ld, Notre Deme, lndl•n•, 416556. 
The Observer Is • member of the Assocl8ted Press. All repro­dudlon rights •re reserved . 

The Observer's election 
for editor-in·-chief is Wed., March I. 
Any ND-SMC student 
interested in running 
.. must submit a resume 



Wednesday, February 22, 1978 
the observer 





HPC discusses Roots,-An Tostal 

by Stan Aslanian, Carroll Hall She stressed that Neighborh<Xirl
by Bob Varettoni 

president. Roots is a learning experience that 
senior Staflr Reporter 

shows that the heart of SouthKathy Fox, representing Neigh­Bend's 1strengthand unity lies in its 
Fr. Theodore Hesburgh, Univer­borhood Roots, asked the hall sity president, has approved a plan presidents to support this semes­neighborhoods. for holding a carnival on the Notre ter's program. She said registra­• 'You might see Notre Dame as a Dame campus during An Tostal , tion fot this tour will take place in neighborhood,'' she noted. John Rooney, An Tostal chair­the dining halls Feb. 26-28. "Really it is just one in a series of man, stated at last night's Hall South Bend neighborhoods.''
. Fox explained that cars will leave 
President's Council (HPC) meeting 
Notre Dame at 2:30 p.m. on Kristin Quann, HPC secretary,in Lewis Hall. 
Sunday, March 5. Participants will announced the dates for all the hall 
Rooney noted that at the next tour South Bend, stopping at St. formals this semester. Badin, HPC meeting a representative from Albert's Parish to hear speakers Breen-Phillips, Dillon, and Lyons one company will outline a plan for offer supplementary information halls all have formals planned for the carnival. The representative about local neighborhoods. After­March 31. will also discuss the details of the wards, paritcipants will attend a Prize money for the snow sculp­
plan with the An Tostal Commit­traditional· Polish wedding feast. ture contest was so high this year tee 'and with Bro. Just Paczesny, "Last year they held the tour on because saint Mary's contributed vice president for Student Affairs. a weekday, and it kind of dragged," an additional $200 to the contest, · The HPC unanimously passed a Holy Cross Hall President Ted according to a report by Julie resolution inviting "all Saint Howard commented. "but on a Rittenhouse, Badin Hall president. Mary's hall presidents to attend Sunday it would be extremely Finally, Tracy Kee, HPC execu­worthwhile. Everyone just dumps
HPC meetings, and speak freely in tive coordinator, reported that the matters which concern both camp­on South Bend but no one ever HPC still harl $966 unbudgeted.learns about it."
uses." She asked hall presidents to submit 
J.P. Russell, HPC chairman, Fox said they would cut down the formal requests for the money, 
said he was "very excited" about number of rspeeches to make this which will be reallocated in a vote the resolution, which was drawn un year's program run more smoothlv. next Tuesday. 
Sharansky gives lecture on fate of USSR dissidents 
explanation of this refusal was trial could end in a death sentenceby Jana Schutt 
denied. A vital, his wife of one day, for treason against the state. was forced to leave the USSR on an Mrs.Sharansky stated that her exit visa. She has not seen her husband's arrest has become a
Branded as "a spy, a traitor to husband since. rallying point for people of manythe state. and an immoral person," While awaiting a chance to leave nations to combat Soviet disregard Anatoly Sharansky. a prominent the USSR for Israel, Anatoly Shar­of human rights. President Carter Soviet dissident. was arrested by ansky became active in the Jewish denied Sharansky · s link with thethe Sovietgovernmenton March 15, Immigration Movement. Accor­CIA in July, 1977. In her lecture,1977. after much harassment. 
ding to Sharansky's wife, this Avital Sharansky pointed out aSome contend that they hold him group has become the symbol for distinction between the US ap­because he is a Jew. 
many minority groups in the USSR. proach to small countries' viola­The "Fate of Dissidents in the It protests the restrictions placed tions of human rights and those ofUSSR" was the topic of a lecture upon members of these groups by the USSR. She termed the differ­given by Sharansky's wife. Avital, the Soviet government she said. ence a "devaluation of moralin the Library Auditorium yester­Upon assuming a leadership standards."
day. The lecture. sponsored by position wittin the group, Sharan­
According to Mrs. Sharansky,
Amnesty International and the sky was under constant surveil­
the only way to help her husband
Institute for International Studies, lance by the Soviet Secret Police. 
and other dissidents now being
was given entirely in Russian. 
His phone was tapped, and propa­
held in the s'oviet prisons is with
Mrs. Sharansky's brother inter­ganda was used against him to \
public pressure. She is traveling
preted. 
alienate the public from his cause, 
around the US seeking aid in this
According to an official census of his wife explained. On March 4, 
pressure. She cited several US
1970. some two million Jews live in 1977. he was accused of being an 
industries which have abandoned
the USSR. Under the Helsinki agent of the CIA. Later that same
Agreements of 1975. all citizens of he was Since ties with Soviet business to protest
month. arrested. 
violations of human rights,
the 35 member-nations have the 
December of 1977. he has been 
Amnesty International is soonsor­
"right to leave any country and to held by the Soviet government in return to that countrv. the basic violation of their own laws. His [continued on page 7]human rights to be reunited with 
government. Anatoly Sharansky 
was one of its founding members. 00G'Ne:~~\\\ The National Engineers Week theme, ENGINEERS ... STRENGTH 
Five years ago. Sharansky 
applied for an exit visa to israel and • 
• IN CRISIS, brings into focus the important role engineers must play 
was refused. His appeal for an 

m ~if we are to solve some of America's most pressing problems -like 
~ 

1> ~ vanishing natural resources, energy shortages, environmental NO senior ~1\tr-.. _, oq-deterioration and shrinking water supplies. 
">IH ,,~ ' 
found dead ~~tt~ we are looking for: 
Michael Lyons, a Notre Dame senior in the college of arts and • MECHANICAL ENGINEERS-to do research on more energy-efficient appliances. 
letters, was found dead Monday • ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS -to bring microcomputer technology into appliance design and 
night in his off-campus residence at 
manufacturing pro~sses.
502 East Broadway. Deputy Coroner Dr. Terry L. Alley ruled • ENVIRONMENTAL ENGINEERS -to do research in reducing, recovering and reusing process the death a suicide. 
water. chemicals, and energy. 
The wake service will be held at 
eiNDUSTRIAL ENGINEERS -to design, improve, and install integrated systems affecting people, 
the Fraze-Timmons Funeral Home, Union City, Ind., tomorrow from 2 material, equipment and processes. · 



to 5 p.m. and from 7 to 9 p.m. 
Contact: VANCE SHAW, 
Funeral services will be Friday at 
Manager of Corporate Recruiting 10 a.m. in St. Mary's Church, We would welcome inquiries from college graduate engineers who 
Union City. 
are seeking a challenging ~xperience that will lead to promotional c&>
A memorial mass will be cele­
opportunities in technical and managerial areas. If you are future
brated by Fr. Theodore Hesburgh, University president, Monday at oriented and want to discuss your plans with Whirlpool. .. 

Whirlpj!gj
5:15 p.m. in Sacred Heart Church. 
Lyons is survived by his mother, BENTON HARBOR, MICHIGAN 49022 three sisters and four brothers. WHIRLPOOL CORPORAnON, manuf.cturw and marketw of major home .,pli•nces • An Eqrul Opportunity Employw 
..·.. 

Wednesday, February 22, 1978
the observer 

Allen nominated for three Oscars 
To make it even easier, charge it all on our "Let Yourself Go" credit card. Fly now and pay when that letter comes in from home. 
Check with your travel agent, your campus rep or Continental and find out how you can take the easy way out. 

HOLLYWOOD [API -Woody Allen, the stand-up comedian turned filmaker, scored a personal triumph yesterday when he was nominated for three Academy· Awards, the highest honors in American movies. 
Allen's "Annie Hall" was among the five pictures nominated for best film of 1977, and he was nominated for writing it, directing it and starring in it. 
Only Orson Welles, with "Citizen Kane" in 1941, was named in those three categories before. He did not win in any of the 
categories. 
Diane Keaton, Allen's co-star in "Annie Hall," was nominated for best actress, along with Jane Fonda of "Julia," Shirley Mac Laine and Anne Bancroft of ''A 


Awareness Series continues at SMC~ 
"Your Role as a Woman, and 1 • sit May Change" is the theme of a discussion to be held tonight at 
7:30 in Saint Mary's Stapleton Lounge, LeMans. The conference, the third to be offered by SMC's Women's Awareness Series, will be led by Walter Keller, assistant professor of psydiology at SMC. 
"He'll be talking about male­female relationships, occupational roles, and how women's roles have and will change," explained Kathy O'Connell, organizer of the Wo­men's Awareness Series. "It will be a real informal discussion, with audience participation. We want to encourage male students and fac­ulty members to come, too. It would be interesting to hear what they have to say." 
Admission is free, and refresh­ments will be served afterward. 

The Women's A"areness Series, a sequence of workshops and meet'ings, is designated to help women realize their full potential and capabilities as people. The next lecture will be held in mid­March, and Women's Week is scheduled for April 3-8. 

Holy Cross program seeks volunteers 

Any Saint Mary's or Notre Dame senior who is interested in spend­ing a year working with the poor in the United States should contact Sr. Madeline Therese, coordinator for the Sisters of the Holy Cross' Act Lay Volunteer program (4659). Openings are now available for at least 18personsinterested in teach­ing. nursing, social work or pastor­al ministry. 
Requests for such volunteers have, at present, been received from three schools in Washington, D.C., one school in Peoria, III., one school in Danville, III., one school in McAllen, Texas, and a clinic in Raymondville, Texas. 
Should any student wish to offer his/her services for the year, the request would be decided upon by the Regional Superior of the region to which the application is addres­sed. Further planning . would then be done with that Regional Super­ior. 
In some areas, a teaching certifi­cate is not required, but there should be a willingness and desire to teach. The initial training period would provide the opportun­ity for preparation and in-service experience. 
"For those intending to go on for graduate school, this one year of experience would provide invalu­able expenence for their continued studies," Therese said. 
In all cases, room, board and a small stipend will be provided for volunteers. 
Turning Point" and Marsha Mason of "The Goodbye Girl." 
"Julia," the story of two American women caught in Nazi Germany, and ''The Turning Point,''· a reunion of two ballerinas, captured eleven nominations each in the 50th Oscars race, more than any othe film. 
Besides them and "Annie Hall," the best-picture nominations went to the biggest money-maker of the year "Star Wars," and to "The Goodbye Girl." 
"Star Wars" had 10 nomina­
tions, and another science fiction 
film, "Close Encounters of the 
Third Kind," had eight. 
With Allen in the best-actor competition are Richard Burton for "Equus," Richard Dreyfuss for "The Goodbye Girl," Marcello Mastroianni for "A Special Day" and John Travolta for "Saturday Night Fever." 
Vanessa Redgrave was nomi­nated for best supporting actress for "Julia," along with ballet dancer Leslie Browne in "The 
Turning Point,'' Ten-vear-old Q~in.~ Cum~ings of' 'The ·Goodbye Gtrl, Mehnda Dillon of "Close Encounters" and Tuesday Weld of "Looking for Mr. Goodbar." 
Another ballet star -Mikhail 
Ba~~~nikov . of "The Turning 
Pomt ~ was m the running for best 
supportmg actor. British actor 
Peter Firth of "Equus" and three 
past Oscar winners filled out that 

field: Alec Guinness of "Star 
Wars" and Jason Robards and 
Maximilian Schell of "Julia." 
Besides Allen, nominees for best direction were Steven Spielberg for "Close Encounters"· ·Fred Zinnemann, "Julia"; George Lucas, "Star Wars"; and Herbert Ross, ''The Turning Point. • • 
Among the usual curiosities in the nominations is Spieldberg being nominated for direction, while "Close Encounters" was not among the best-picture nominees. Diane Keaton was cited for a comedy instead of the highly dramatic "Looking for Mr. Goodbar." Voters apparently 








can't inenta ' 
ignored some highly touted films for those_ of quality. 
The winners will be announced April 3 amid a gala celebration for Oscar's first SO years. ABC television will carry the festivities fromthe Los Angeles Music Center. 
We really move our tail for you. 
CONTINENTAL AIRUNES 8 
The Ploud Bird with the Golden Tail. 
NIGIIT COACH: Travel between 9:00PM and 6:59AM to selected destinations. SUPER CQACH: Limited seats available on specified nonstop DC-10 nights. COACH EXCURSION: Minimum 7day advance purchase and reservation. Return not earlier than 1st Sunday n<ll' later than JO days after departure. Limited seats available. 

----~---------­ ~­ 
Wednesday, February 22, 1978  the observer  5  
Something special  tony pace  

Billy Joel-the piano man of the music world-has another hit album on his hands, one that may eventually dwarf his previous albums in both critical acclaim and national sales. "The Stranger" is the name of the album, and if you have not heard it yet, well, you have been missing something speciaL It has climbed to the number two spot on Billboard's most recent weekly poll of top albums in the country. While "Piano Man", both the Ip and the single, and the lp "Turnstiles" have brought Joel considerable attention in the past, "The Stranger" should put Joel in the musical superstar category because of its infectious melodies and brillant lyrics. 
The lyrical themes of the Stranger are common ones: love, upward social mo­bility, dreams and fulfillment. Joel succeeds with these themes because of the closeness of his lyrics to human experience and because the accompanying music accentuates rather than conceals them. The album also has the benefit of association with Albert Camus' book with the same title. 
The most well-known song from the album is "Just The Way You Are." This song has the advantage of being Top Forty in nature-it has an easy melody and simple lyrics. However, the simplicity of the song does not diminish its value. Accepting a person for what he is is a simple, but nonetheless important, message. 
The other songs on the albums first side, "Movin' Out", "The Stranger" and "Scenes from an Italian Restaurant" are all superb. 
"Movin' Out" is a song about a boy named Anthony who is "savin' his pennies for someday." But Anthony begins to question the purpose of the Protestant work ethic. Why should he work hard to get ahead? He describes the possible goals of his labor but concludes that "it seems such a waste of time. If that's what it's all about. If that's movin up than I'm movin' out". Atthesong'send, Anthony's car can be heard screeching into the distance as he discards the money-oriented values which he had accepted in the past. 
The title cut opens with some mellow piano and background whistling before breaking into some hard-driving lyrics. Joel speaks of that darker side of ourselves, the side which we may never even let our lover see. Ev(!ll with all the problems of love, the song provides solace by saying, "Don't be afraid to try again. Everyone goes south/ Every now and then/ You've done it, why can't someone else?" "The stranger within is not all bad, but you'll give in to its desire whenever it makes itself known. The song closes with the same mellow piano music and that same strange whistler fading into the distance. 
"Scenes from and Italian Restaurant" is a long sentimental ballad with two "old friends" reminiscing about Brenda and Eddie. Actually the old friends seem to be Brenda and Eddie themselves, with Eddie describing his present situation and then remarking on the fact that his friend had lost weight since they "lost touch long ago". These scenes are masked in the different levels of conversation at the restaurant. First, they concern themselves with the type of wine to order as the saxaphone wails in the background. Then the tempo picks up as Eddie describes his new situation. "Got a good job, got a good office/ Got a new wife, got a new life/ And the family is fine." Finally, again with a change in the song's tempo, we are in a flashback to the days when Brenda and Eddie were the king and the queen of the village green. After the song describes their parting as ''the closest of friends'' we descend through the intermediate stage back to the restaurant where the sax is still wailing and the conversation is still concerned with the type of wine-red or white-which the "old friends" are going to order. 


"Vienna," the first song on side two, is a personal favorite. Joel sings to an ambitious youngster who is trying to do too many things in a short span of time. Joel wants his listener to realize the ''Viennna waits for you." The romantic image of Vienna is heightened by the accordian music provided by Dominic Cortese. 
Vienna is that place where the restless can learn to take life more slowly and appreciate it. Vienna, with its great music, can help you to keep things in their proper perspective. 
Although all the lyrics in this song are important, the message can be summed up with these lines: "Slow down you're doing· fine/ You can't be everything you/ want to be/ before your time." And later: "You're so ahead of yourself/ That you forget what you need/ though you can see when you're wrong/ you can't always see when you're right." 
0 
"Only The Good Die Young" is sung to typical Catholic girl named Virginia, who "got a nice white dress and a party on her confirmation." Joel implores Virginia to come out and have some fun. Joel sings the invitation, "Come out Virginia, don't let me wait/ You Catholic start much too late/ But sooner or later it comes down to fate/ I might as well be the one." Joel says only the good die young because they have not had some of the .experiences that others, notably sinners, have had. He would rather laugh with the sinners than cry with the saints. The musical back­ground for this song is simple guitar, but it fits well with this up tempo song. 
The middle two songs on the second side, "She's Always a Woman" and "Get It Right the First Time," illustrate the diversity of the album. "She's Always a Woman" is very mellow, almost solemn, with the acoustic guitar work of Steve Burgh and Hugh McCracken and Joel's piano work on setting the mood. Despite what the lady may do, she's always a woman, to JoeL "Get It Right the First Time" is an up beat rocker with a tinge of reggae in it. The percussion of Ralph MacDonald sets the beat for the song. Joel's lyrics here cite the importance of first doing things r.ght the first time through. Even if you do it right the second time it's just not the same. The song seems to be a means for Joel to psyche himself to get something right the first time. (Like the recording maybe?) 
"Everybody Has a Dream" is a natural ending for the album. Joel sings of the dream that is special to him, "Just to be at home, and all alone ... with you." There are background vocals in this song when the title lines are sung. Two of those who provide the background singing are Phoebe Snow and Patti Austin. The background vocals give the effect of a gospel choir, which-given the tone of the song-makes for a solid ending. 
There is a little twist, however. The very last track is the same music and whistling, which opened and closed the album's title track. Even with the dreams which each of us has, "T!te Stranger" is always around. ALBUM COUKTESY OF MAC'S RECORD RACK 

_Eric Clapton is ~wonderful' 
If Eric Clapton never hit another chord he would still be considered one of the greatest guitarists in the history of rock. He has played with the Yardbirds, Cream, Stevie Winwood, George Harrison, and Duane Allman, to name just a few, and has given us Derek and the Dominos, one of the greatest works in the history of rock and roll. As a virtuoso guitar god in the middle 60's he was the most widely imitated musician of his time and next to Jimi Hendrix probably the most influentiaL 
He has kicked heroin and overcome a multitude of personal problems many of which were caused by the pressure such unquestioning adulation brought, and still managed to salvage his aesthetic credibil­ity. Unlike Hendrix, Oapton has survived, and we should be thankful merely for thr t. 
Yet with the exception of 461 Ocean Boulevard, a moving work that was startling in its presentation of a quieter, more reserved artist, very little of Eric's recent output has been that engaging. It seemed as if Clapton was content to just go through the motions of recording, to issue product once a year in order to keep his name in the spotlight, and then return to seclusion. This may sound a little far-fetched, but nobody can deny the malaise and spiritual torpor that seemed to infuse There's One In Every Crowd, the live set E.C. Was Here, and No Reason To Cry. All three were very dull albums characterized by uninspired musicianship and tepid songwriting. It is interesting to note that about the time No Reason was released Polydor reissued its entire cata­logue of Cream recordings. 
At the very moment I am writing this, however, Oapton's fourth lp tn three years, Slowband, is rocketing up the charts, a single off the lp Lay Down Sally, is safely ensconced in the top ten, and all stops on an upcoming tour are sold out. Eric is back at the top where he belongs and believe me this Ip had a lot to do with it. Slowband is Clapton's strongest work in years. The new material is evocative and moving, the band, particularly Mel Collins on sax and Jamie Oldaker on drums, is forceful and engaging, and the singing of Oapton and Yvonne Elliman is rich and vibrant. 
More importantly, Oapton has finally affected a balance between his new found demure style and impassioned content. The songs are quietly compelling and 
sparsely arranged as on his three previous 
lp's yet sung and performed with such 
conviction that the work as a whole 
becomes a moving and invigorating ex­
perience. 
This is not to imply that the cuts on 
Slowhand are "spiritually uplifting," (how 
could they be when the opening cut is J .J. 
Cale's "Cocaine?"); but rather that they 
are so earnestly intepreted that one finds 
oneself becoming emotionally captivated 
by the sentiments expressed. Thus when 
Eric sings about the pleasures of cocaine it • 
is not with a hipper than thou attitude but a 
mannered exultance that leaves the listen­
er chilled and a little awed. A simple love 
song like "We're All The Way," in 
contrast, is given such a haunted, twisted 
reading, one can almost see the scars on 
Oapton's heart. 
"Wonderful Tonight," is the most moving song on the album, however, and indicative of Oapton's more mature and eloquent thematic concerns. It is about love, not the simple boy-girl love of Layla, but love as intangible, uncommunicated sentiment. Clapton takes a potentially banal scenario and by brilliant use of dramatic juxtaposition, fashions a compel­ling observation on the inadequacies of verbal expression in attempting to express passion and sentiment. 
Watching his wife" get dressed for a party, a man looks on in wonder at her beauty. When she hesitantly asks whether she looks alright, the hus~and shaken out of his reverie can only reply that she ''looks wonderful tonight." There is such a desperate yearning in Clapton's voice that the listener is aware of the intense need on the part of the man to communicate the passion his wife's beauty arouses in him and the frustration he is feeling over his inability to communicate this feeling. 
Later at the party the wife approaches him again to ask if ''everything is alright.'' He has been watching her most of the evening, noting with 'pride how the other men are looking at her and how lucky he is to have her in love with him. Yet now that he has the chance to tell her this, all he can say is that he "feels wonderful." 
As she ·walks away the husband thwarted again in his attempt to express his feelings, sadly muses: 
I feel wonderful because I see 
The love riding in your eyes 
And the wonder of it all 

Is that you just don't realize 
How much I love you He loves her but he can never "really" tell her. It is with the recognition of this situation that the man comes to understand why he loves this woman. It is not because of her beauty or charm but because she asks questions that he cannot answer. His wife is unsure of herself and seeks solace in his affirmation of her necessity, and even though all he can offer her are platitudes she never is disappointed in him. That is why he loves her. She asks for so much, gets so little, and still loves him. 
Clapton does not let the song end on a 
maudlin note but a comic one. The husband gets drunk and has to be helped home by his wife because he has an "aching head." As she puts him to bed the man realizes that he has one last chance before the night ends to express his 
passion: he can make l~ve to her. 
Yet as the song fades amid the sweetly lyrical notes of Eric's graceful slide playing, the listener is forced to conclude somewhat wryly that a man who must let his wife drive him home is going to be too weak to give his wife even this small measure of satisfaction. So it is with laughter that we watch the lights go out and listen to the singer telling his love once again, that she "was wonderful tonight." 
"Lay Down Sally," which follows this number is a delightful bit of rockabilly. With its twanging guitar, toe-tapping rhythms and wonderful Clapton/Eiliman harmony in the chorus it was the natural single to pull off the lp. "Love is all that matters," intones Eric, "so why don't you simply rest here in my arms." An unusual 
dom salemi 

request to make to any young lady but one that is stated so sincerely and so engag­ingly that I don't see how any girl could resist. 
"Next Time You See Her" is another bouncy melodic cut but this one takes a chilling turn in the middle. Clapton begins by romantically comparing his woman to the stars and joyfully imploring his friend to tell his sweetheart how much he loves her. Suddenly the music dies down and Clapton is without skipping a beat is warning his compatriot that if he ever even goes near-his love again "I will surely kill you.", Oapton sings these lines with almost the same expression and tone that he just used to ecstatically describe his lover, suggesting that there is a fine line between love and hate, ecstasy and pain, the destructinve and creative impulses. Indeed it was unrequited love that caused Clapton to turn to heroin and in a fog of agony and self-loathing consequently write Layla, hisgreatestwork. Eric has obviously not forgotten nor does it appear he wants us to. 
"The Core" which kicks off side two is the only cut on the lp which allows individual members of the band to take extended solos opens with a churning riff and then settles into a Gospel-tinged funk groove. Throughout Clapton and Yvonne Elliman trade vocals while the band maintains up a furious pace behind them. Mel Collins takes the· first break on sax, a shrilly insistent solo that is matched by Oapton note for note coming in over the top. 
"May You Never" offers a respite from the furious pace of "The Core." Featuring ,Oapton on accoustic guitar, mixed above the rhythm section, it is a simple, melodic exhortation to follow the Christian virfues oflove and kindness. Yet the chorus which is preceeded by the wish on the part of the singer that you "never lose a woman overnight,'' and concerns the bitter paths one must traverse to find true love, is not sung clearly. It is almost as if Eric is choking on his words, as if it is too painful to even be reminded of his past. (All we hear are a few disconnected words but never the complete lyric.) It is an arresting and saddening performance: an illustra­tion ofwhat the artist must sometime draw upon if he is to .create meaningful and heartfelt music. Play on Eric. 



...6'---_.....t...,h....e.__..o...b,...se.._rvL..JL.lle...rL..--____w_e_d_nesday, February 22, 1978 


SMC continues exam requirement 
by Denlaa Lynk Other departments progressive thing: if a student hers and scheduling the orai exams Mixed reactions Biology comprehensives begin follows through there's no way she are time consuming, Bain said 
Saint Mary's is one of the few 
schools in the country that still 
requires students to take compre­
hensive exams in their majors, 
according to Gail Mandell assistant 
to the SMC vice-president for 
Academic Affairs. 
At Saint Mary's comprehensives are graded "unsatisfactory," "sat­isfactory," and "honors." Stu­dents with more than one major may choose which one to take, except when one major requires a special degree. 
The type of comprehensive given 
depends upon the individual 
department. "The comprehen­
sives vary as much as the nature of 
the department's program,Mandel 
stated. 
"The idea behind them is good," Valerie Homola, a senior English major, said. "I like the idea of pulling together everything over four years.'' 
"However the pressures and mental anguish that students go through isn't worth it," she added. "I would prefer to have a class that taught everything together." 
Sandy Colson, a senior history major, agreed that the idea of a tinal review exam is good, but that the stress placed on passing or failing it "does not seem right," 
"There's the strain and worry on the student from the time she is a freshman wondering whether or not she will be able to pass a comp exam after four years of study," Colson noted. 
The requirement for comprehen­sive exams has existed since the foundimz of the College. According to Mandel, this requirement has never been waivered for any stu­dent. Only the President of the College, after consulting the Aca­demic Affairs Council, can elimin­ate the requirement. 
"Senior Art majors have to plan a comprehensive that consists of a culmination of what they should have learned in four years," said James Paradis, chairman of the A. Department. 
Art History majors have to write a major paper, while other majors have to present an art display in the Moreau Gallery. The majors must plan their project on their own. They request two faculty advisors who tell the students when they are going wrong, but the advisors do no actual teaching. 
Student have their opening in the spring, and present their work for a week. Guests--including the judges, who are members of the art department faculty--are invited. The students are notified by mail of the results of their showing. 

the second semester of junior year 
and end with a written lab report 
due in the second semester of 
senior year. Juniors who are in the 
Med Tech program spend their 
senior year working in a hospital. 
"It's up to the student to 
organize her work. We don't 
expect a Nobel Prize winner, but 
the work must be well done," 
stated Anne Susalla, chairman of 
the biology department. 
The student chooses an area she would like to work in, and then chooses a faculty advisor who is working in that area to instruct her. 
According to Susalla, the student plans a proposal, does library work, and then the topic "has to be tested, and not just a paper." 
Some students do the research at home in the summer before their senior year. They can start in the fall, but a well planned experiment is due by the end of November, and the first draft of the paper is due in the first week of December. 
In the four years that Susalla has been at SMC, no one has failed the Biology comprehensives. 
"There is no way to fail the romps," Susalla said. "This is a 
DOONESBURY 
Ml?. DUKE, I 7HINI< YeAH, AND 
Y(}(/RE QJrTl3 M/5-'10% OF 'rfJUR. 
TAKEN ABOUT 71/e PLAYERS ARE

tEXTENT OF 711& PILL. LAU6H!NG 
~ PROB/.tM.IAJ{Y, JFL 71EIR JlJCI<S 
: OFRC!ALS GIVE ANTI-OFF TH/3 
fAJfOlE TTME.' , I 

can fail. The work may not be suitable for publication, but it adds to biology." 
According to Reginald Bain, chairman of the ND/SMC Speech and Drama Department, ND Speech and Drama majors are 
required to take comps even though ND does not give senior comprehensives. 
There are five major concentra­tions within the department: General Speech and Drama, Com­munications, Film/Broadcasting, Theatre, and Education. Majors in each of these concentrations must take an oral exam, but the Theatre majors must also take the Under­graduate Record Exam in Drama and Theatre. 
In the oral exam students select a topic that is related to their area of concentration. They then prepare a ten to 15 minute presentation to be given in front of the department chairman and three faculty mem­hers of the department who the students themselves help to select. 
This year there are 42 Senior Speech and Drama majors, 12 of whom are Theatre majors. Because there are only seven faculty mem­

by Garry Trudeau 
BUT YOU 54Y rve BEEN 
YOU 'V/3 HA[) /W)UN()7#£3 
SOME GXPER­TRACl< A F£IAJ 
/ENCE IN TIMES, YES. 
I 


Study in England!
----,. 

The Untvefa•ty of E vansvrlle •s an •ndependent, Untted 
Mf'fhodtsr '"'•rN Umvi'''''Y· whrch oper•res. mall a5pecrs peruumng to students. faculty, admm•stultlon and staff. 
under a non<hscllmtnarory pohcy wnh regard to race. color, age, rehgton. sex and nat•onal oragm 
,...-.. , _.­

HARLAXTON: 
An intercontinental educational adventure available through the University of Evansville's overseas campus located 11 0 miles north of London. 
•  Curriculum includes over 20 transferable courses each term.  
•  Small classes taught by British/American faculty.  
•  Spend a semester or year studlying and traveling abroad.  



• Open to qualified students from accredi.ted univer­sities. 
U,niversity of Evansville 

1800 Lincoln Avenue Indiana Toll Free (800) 742·3788 Evansville, Indiana 47702 (812) 479-2468 
Theatre majors have been waived from taking the oral exam. 
No strong feelings 
"We don't have a strong feeling for the comprehensive; basically we give it because St. Mary's requires it," Bain said. "Our feeling is that it should not be a kind of make it or break it situation. 
We do see a value in the comprehensives, but if we had a choice we'd probably get rid of them." 
The English , comprehensive. consists of four parts: a genre question, a theme question, a novel question, and a set of identifica­tions. English Writing majors do not take the identification part, but they do have to do a writing project. 
According to Sr. Eva Hooker, acting chairman of the English Department, one way of preparing for the exam is a six week comp review session that meets one night a week for two hours. 
"I hope the students benefit. We took a survey and the reactions were mixed. Some of the brighter · students have found them fun and are more intrigued," Hooker said. Last year Humanistic Studies majors had as a comprehensive a take home test that they were given three to four weeks to work on. Bruno Schlesinger, chairman of the department, said he will have to speak with students to determine what this year's exam will be like. 
Schlesinger said that he is "in favor of comps, they give the student a chance to go over material. They're better than nothing, a lesser evil." 
Senior Math majors take a year-long seminar class which they receive creditfor. The students are expected to orally present a paper on a topic not covered in the class. The presentation is given before a committee ofthe student's advisor, two other faculty members, and the other students in the class. 
[continued on page 7] 


ATTENTION SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING MAJORS! 

The Air Force has openings for young men and women majoring In selected science and engineering fields. Like Aeronautical, Aerospace, General and Electrical Engineering. Mathematics. Physics and Com· puler Technology. 
To help prepare for one of these, Air Force ROTC offers two and four·year programs of study which ~ill defray some of your college costs. 
After completion of the AFROTC requirement. and upon your grad· ualion. you11 be commissioned an officer in the Air Force. Then comes responsibility, experience In your specialty "l!ith some of the best peo· pie and facilities in the world, and a mission with a purpose. You'll get excellent starting salary, medical and dental care. 30 days of paid va· cation beginning your first year, and more. 
Look into the Air Force ROTC program right away. See what's in it for you. See how you can serve your country in return. You'll be glad you put your major to work on a job that really counts. 
CALL CAPT. DAVIS AT 283-6634 
Gateway to a great way of life. 
Sunshine Celebration and Notre Dame Student Union • presents 

and special guest 
STARZ 
monday feb 27 7:30pm notre dame a.c.c. 
All seats reserved: $7.00 Roor Festival Style $7.00 Reserved Chair Style $6.00 Reserved Bleacher On sale at Student Tldcet offiCE, ACC 


Sharansky speaks on dissidents 
[continued from page 3] ing letter-writing campaigns to Soviet officials and a World Hunger Strike on March 15, 1978, to commemorate Sharansky's arrest and to protest his imprisonment. Some 150,000 Jews have immi­grated to Israel since the beginning of the movement. But many more await exit visas that may never come. Mrs. Sharansky spoke as an appeal for support to change the Soviet attitude toward human 
rights, especially those violations which are prevalent against the Jewish minority in the USSR. 
SMC continues comps 

requirement 
[continued from page 6] 
The Government and Philosophy departments either assign a thesis paper of approximately SO pages containing original research, or administer an oral exam. History majors have a choice of either taking a seminar course, and oral exam, or a four hour written exam. 
. 

Wednesday, February 22, 1978 the observer 

Faster's Mass 
Fr. Charles Sheedy, C.S.C., will celebrate today's Faster's Mass at 
5:15 p.m. in Walsh hall chapel. Sheedy is a member of Notre )arne's theology department. 
Dave Mason tix to go on sale 
Tickets for the March 15 Dave Mason concert will go on sale tomorrow at 9 a.m. at the ACC and Student Union Ticket Office. The SU Ticket Office will hold a seating preference lottery tonight at 6 p.m. in LaFortune Student Center. Prices are $7 for floor and padded seats and $6 for bleacher seats.· There will be a limit of ten tickets per person. 
NOTICES 

Bus service to Chicago every Friday. Buses leave the circle at 6:05 for tickets and info call Shep 8330. 
Logan volunters: Dance this Friday night, Feb. 24th at Logan Center 7:30 pm, till10:00 pm. Come and dance the night away! Rides leave NO main circle and Holy Cross Circle at St. Mary's at 
7:15 pm. Any questions call Art Koebal (287-7509) or Jeanne Conboy (284-4391). 
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND 

Student loans at one percent monthly interest, $20-150. One day wait, due in th1rty days. LaFortune basement, M-F, 11:15·12:15. 
Lenten confessions heard Monday thru Saturday at Sacred Heart beginning at 7 pm. Anyone wishing to make an appointment for confessions may phone Campus Ministry at 6536 or 3820. 
Anyone wishing to vote in Indiana's May election should contact Mo at 4-1-4001 before spring break. 
Dissertations, manuscripts typed. IBM selection II. Linda's Letters, 287-4971. 
Typing .....reasonable rates. Call 8051. 
Accurate, fast typing. Mrs. Donoho, 232-0746. Hours: 8 am to 6 pm. 
TYPING DONE REASONABLE RATES CALL 8086. 
Last chance to get your class 80' shorts. Soph. office. 1-4 pm. 
One roomate to share Campus View Apartment. Please call 277-3509. 
'·Jphomore gym shorts are in ....all sizes. 
I e, ~"'"ArT LENS WEARERS ....Save on bidr.J ..-,mE' hard and soft lens supplies. :ana tor!·;" illustrated catalog. Contact ~ens ;,upplles. Box 7453, Phoenix, Ari­zona, 85011. 
NEED QUALITY TYPING? Executary Inc., Professional Typing Services IBM Selectrics. 85 cents per page minimum. 
Call 232·0898 best."  ·'When  you  want  the  
FOR RENT  

Two furnished houses for next school year · 9 month lease, 4 bedrooms and 5 bedrooms-near NO, off street parking. Call 234-2626. 
For rent next school year: Completely 
furnished 4 bedroom house a couple of blocks from campus. No security problems, safe neighborhood, easy to walk to campus. Call 277-3604. 
Available for Sept.. five bedroom house, also three bedroom apt. Call Nancy Humbarger at 234-9364. 
FOR SALE 

KR 2600 Kenwood receiver and KE-3 speakers $120. Call Pat 287·3844. 
Kenwood 4400 stereo receiver, 2G watts per channel. "very nice." $85. Chuck 3386. 
For Sale: Panasonic AM·FM stereo with turntable and cassette player-recorder, plus wo speakers. Excellent condition, 1 1/2 years old. $150. 8173. 
Realsitic TR-801 eight track play-record tape deck. VU meters, many extras, like new. Make offer. Call Steve 8209. 
Frozen yogurt machine, great for money mi"ded student. Refreshing for those warm days ahead. Cal Erma at Taco Rico, 291·3142. 
Blantz appointed to committee 
Fr. Thomas E. Blantz, C.S.C., associate professor of history and University of Notre Dame archivist, has been asked by University President Fr. Theodore M. Res­burgh to serve on the Provost Search Committee. Father Blantz replaces Rev. David B. Burrell, C.S.C., chairman of the depart­ment of theology, who has resigned from the committee. 
Other members of the committee are its chairman, Dr. 0. Timothy O'Meara, Kenna professor of mathematics; Dr. Frederick J. Crosson, O'Hara professor of phil­osophy; Dr. Fernand N. Dutile, professor of law; Dr. J. Philip Gleason, professor pf history; and Kenneth C. Ricci, a senior in the 
College  of  Business  Administra­ 
tion.  
The  committee  is  expected  to  


classified ads 

FOR SALE: BIG 981 turntable only three 
big. Call 8992.

FULL COLOR COTTON BOWL PIC­TURES NOW AVAILABLE. CALL 8982. 
Will pay big $$ for NO-Marquette tix! Call John, 3829.
WHY PAY MORE??? Flanner records has all $7.98 list lp's for only $5.29. All Will pay excellent $$ for two Marquette$6.98 lp's for only $4.59 (plus tax). 
tix, student or GA. Call Rick at 8386 and!
Flanner Records, 322 'Flanner, phone name your price. Need two GA
2741. 

Marquette NO tix. Please call 256-1341. 
For sale: One Marquette student ticket. 
I need three student Marquette tickets.
Call 8833. Last bid taken Thursday 9:00 
Call 277•2397. 

pm. NEED THREE GA AND ONE STUDENT
Two adjacent student Marquette tix. Call TIX FOR MARQUETTE. CALL GARY
1944 or 3046. 
1384. 

Ski boots· size 91/2 made by Kastinger. 
NO-Mississippi basketball program need-
Call 3664 -Don. 
ed. Call collect 471-1377. 
Models needed for photographer develo-LOST AND FOUND 
ping portfolio. No experience necessary. Call tor details (616) 471-1377. 
FOUND: Valuable pen approx. 2 weeks Desperately need ride(s) to Miami-Lau·ago between O'Shag and Chern. Eng. 
derdale area tor spring break. Will share
~ldgs. Call 3869 to claim. 
driving and$$. Call Mickey 3364 or Matt 3349.
FOUND: Men's gloves in room 343 Niewland. Call 272-2548 to claim. 
Desperately need Marquette tix. Koplin, 287-7051.
LOST:Ladies gold watch at Mardi Gras Sat. Linda, 7812. 
Need four tix for Marqutte game. Call 277-5137.
FOUND: Silver wire framed glasses outside the ACC before Maryland game. 
Mom and Dad need two GA tix to
Call1475. 
Marquette. Please call Rich 1172. 
LOST: A pair of large brown framed 
Need six GA and five student tickets for
eyeglasses in a brown case. Reward. 
the Marquette game. Will pay big bucks!
Call Rocky 1773. 
Call Kevin, 287-5711. LOST: Maroon ski jacket at Library Bar 
TWO TICKETS FOR MARQUETTE....
Sat nite. Specvial X-Mas present.... Re-CALL RICH, 1173.
ward, call Kevin 1655. 
Need four GA tickets to any weekendLOST: Gold cross necklace on SMC home baskettall game. Call 4·1-5745.
campus. Reward, call Kathy 5454. 
Need two Marquette GA tickets. Call
LOST: One blue ski glove (left hand) Diane 7883.
between the Rock and Alumni. Lost on Thursday appx. 4:45pm. If found please tiEED UP TO EIGHT GA TICKETS FORcontact George 1248. 
MARQUETTE....CALL 1772. LOST: One red and green scarf probably 
Need two or four Marquette tix. 8504.
in South Dining Hall. Call 6326. 
8502. LOST: Green and gold ski cap. Cafeteria. 
Desperately need 4 GA Marquette tic-Reward. Please call Paul 8540. 
kets. Call 1423. LOST: A pocket camera somewhere 
Need four tickets to the Mraquette game.
between North Dinino Hall and Adminis· 
Call kim 272·4869.

!ration Building Sat. of snowstorm. Please call Ruth, 1317. 
Need ride to NYC area Feb. 23. Marice, 1312.
LOST: One black wallet with identifying cards (Brendan Taylor) somewhere be-Wanted: One student or GA Marquette
tween Sarin and the ACC. I don't care 
ticket. Call Bill 7781.

about the money but I desperately need the wallet. Call 8467. 
GET RICH QUICK!! JUST CALL 212· 5843 AND SELL ME YOUR MAR·LOST: One sterling necklace between QUETTE TICKET. ASK FOR BRIAN.
gym 4ACC and Alumni. Medal is across surrounded by a triangular shelter. Save OVERSEAS JOBS: Summer, year-roundme from suicide! Brian, 3774-or 7958. 
Europe, S. America, Australia, Asia, etc. All fields, $500-$1200 monthly, expenses ~id, sightseeing. Free information ­
rite BHP Co. Box 4490, Dept. 14,
WANTED Berkeley Ca., 94704. 

Need riders to Oklahoma City or Tulsa forRide to Kansas City or St. Louis area any break. Leave 17th. Brian, 1644.
weekend. Call Mark at 1436. Need ride to Indianapolis or Bloomington
Need ride to U. of I. Champaign anytime Feb. 24. Call1361.
Friday, 24th. Share driving and expen­ses, call JB 1165. 
Need 4 GA Marquette tickets. Call Dale 8766.
Need many GA Marquette tickets. Will talk $$. Call 8685. 
HELP! I need Marquette tickets. Call Anne, 4983.
Need ride to 'San Antonio for spring break. Call1229. 
complete its work and submit its recommendations to Father Res­burgh next month. 
Film Society to sponsor series 
The Notre Dame Film Society will sponsor a Wednesday night film series beginning tonight at 8 
p.m. in room 232 of Saint Mary's Moreau Hall. Tonight's presenta­tion will feature a collection of short films. 
Future offerings will include short films and feature-length movies, foreign and American Classics, and documentaries as well as animated films. Among the artists represented will be Salvador Dali, Buster Keaton, Jean Renoir, Charlie Chaplin, Alain Resnais and Sergei Eisenstein. Admission is free. 
TENNIS PROS AND ASSISTANT PROS: Seasonal and year round clubs; good playing and teaching background. Call 301-654-3770, or send two complete resumes and two pictures to: Col. R. Reade, W.T.S., 8401 Connecticut Ave., Suite 1011, Chevy Chase, MD, 20015. 
Need ride to Uof I Champaign. Anytime Friday, 24th. Share driving , expenses. 
months aids. Comes with a SHURE M91 ED cartridge, walnut base and dust-Need two GA Marquette tix for mom and cover. Must sell. Call 3058. dad! Bob 1881.
MUST have one Marquette tick. Will pay 
PERSONALS 
Mary Ann, 
We could say you are not getting older, you are getting better.....but the truth hurts! Happy 21st anyway from your neighbors in 229! 
Hank and Pat, 
I'm so glad you are finally here. It is going to be agreat weekend! Thanks for coming! Love, 
Offspring 112 
Is there amarket tor the Bevo Stick? Yes. Call 1728 for your own personal model. 
Overeaters anonymous meeting is now on Cilmpus'! Call 289-6021 for time and place. 
Need a date? Young Adonis is available weekends, weeknights tor funerals, for­mals and bar mitzvahs. Schoolwork is no hassle • I don't do it. AKA approved ­have papers and shots. Special weekend rates available. Call 2197 and ask tor the Iron Curtin. 
danny, chrissy and rocky: 
thanks for the wonderful hospitality this weekend. the food and the company were · the best ever. Honor-brite! Love, 
robyn PS: a special thanks to tom · the tour guide, you made my trip complete. 
Jane-444 I didn't know you were going to adjust the lights in the lobby too. DKP • 265 
BLANCO ....YOU'LL NEVER WIN WITH THOSE WISKERS. SHAVE 'EM 
Bruce: The beard has got to go!! 
Brian Gary, 
Do you really expect me to believe that your wrestling techniques will help me stave off other NO men? Never!! I think I'II stick with tickling my oppressor -the results are much more interesting. Gues s we wilr just have to see what the tea leaves say. How is Wednesday night? Or is Thursday better? Let me know. 
Your "sister" 
Jap (tall Texan) ... lf.. .. 
roses are red, and 
violets are yellow... 
then adjust your television set. Signed, Your secret Admirer 
Kim, Ellen, Susie, etc., Even the most heinous criminal has his day in court. An ex-friend 
To my secret admirer, 
Thanks so much for the earrings and love note...when are you going to identify yourself? Love, 
The Flaming Redhead 
Leo, 
Thanks for that special call a year and a half ago. Seven's my lucky number!! 1-4-3 
Aries 
Sophomore gym shorts are in. All sizes. 
Last chance to get your class 80' shorts. Soph. office, 1·4 pm 
Easy job. Call 233-7949 anytime on S·M·W, or from 8 am to 2 pm on T·Th-F 

Sue "Uncles"· 
Happy Birthday, Toots! Love, your roomies (and burrhead too!) Sorry we're late. 
Margeret, Let me help you with your skirt. Gary 
Need tour GA tix tor Marquette, SMC 4530 Betsy 
To Disco Don, 
Many thanks for a really crazy time......and the wine. You really helped out in a pinch. 
The Lady in Red 

Haircuts cheapstyles, trims. SMC 4530 I'm glad our skirmish is over. I'm sorry. 
TK-
Betsy. Lux 
Joey A., Thank you so much for an absolutely

Dave J., 
wonderful evening last Friday at the

Sorry I didn't get the snow cleared out, but I' II work on taking that Med test for 
McCandles (LeMans? Law?) Formal. Next time I will serve martinis only, withyou. I'll take a raincheck on my an olive, of course. Much love,Philosophy paper for next Monday, OK? 

Annie GCanfield, Ohio 

. 
Tommy, 
We'll be standing outside the senior bar with open arms, just don't fall out too early. Happy 21st. 
KC and JJ 
Bernie, Happy 19th birthday. Time to celebrate with Southern Comfort? Love, Dad 
To the three "B"s in Morrissey: You tripled our fun! Thanks for an enjoyable evening! Easy A., Kay B. & Sniffles 
Julie, 
With parallel and series programming the heart graph reaches its critical section at the axes. 
ALGOL 


Dear Vicki, Karen, Pam, Colette, Mary Ann, Carole, Mary, Val, Janie, Valerie, Molly, Renee, Laura.,and everyone else: 
When you are rolling "double twos" it's nice to have friends to help you celebrate. Thanks for making it so ~eat! 
Love, ndy 
To our friends in 4-N. Day?  Happy Valentines MKR  ~~·~)  
Mike G. "He's fallen in the water." z My dearest Mitch, Cosmic B·Day wishes. Love and Kisses, Mystery V·tine sender  ~ w..  

.hlollll.lll....J • ., 
f); \~





~~~~ 

NO defense chiUs Wolfpack, 70-59 
the ObServer Wednesday, February 22, 1978 
by Ray O'Brien switched to ihe zone which proved first half performance earned him a Sports Writer to be the best answer to an ice cold post intermission starting position. shooting Wolfpack squad. Clyde A Batton layup increased the home 
The Fighting Irish cagers relied "the Glide" Austin provided the team's lead to 46-35 as ND began on a stingy defense and cold only substantial threat for Norm to pull away. shooting by North Carolina State to Sloan's team but sloppy turnovers Sloan's young team was forced to stage a hard fough 70-59 victory in by the home team enabled N.C. play catch-up ball as Digger a "must win" situation last night at State to stay in the game at 21-15. Phelp's called for the four comer the ACC. Jackson kept Notre Dame from offense with ten minutes left in the 
Most people expected to see a losing the upper hand with solid game. This. strategy forced State to one-man Wolfpack offensive attack performances at both ends of the foul (totaling 30 by the end of the led by ex-DeMatha High School court. State's zone defense kept game). The Irish survived the test star(and ex-Adrian Dantley team-the Irish from working inside as at the foul line which seemed to mate) Charles "Hawkeye" Whit-Digger Phelp's crew were not have plagued them in the last few ney. After Whitney drew a foul on shooting well from the outside games as the lead extended to his first drive to the hoop, it looked either. Jackson's nine points were 62-49. as though the script would run true tops for Notre Dame at the halfway Kenny Mathews, who was to expectations. Last year's ACC point as the Darners held a 34-27 unsuccessful on nine first half field "Rookie of the Year" put N.C. edge due to the Wolfpack's sub-31 goal attempts, carried the hapless State ahead for the last time of the percent accuracy from the floor. W olfpack attack in the second half game at 1-0 and was there after Irish leading scorer Dave Batton as spurts of sloppy play character­virtually unnoticeable as the Irish, lead the way in the second half ized both teams attacks(22 ND led by freshman Tracy Jackson, after missing much of the early turnovers to 18 for State). Austin sergecl to a 15-9 lead. going due to fouls. The "Irish finished with 16 points followed by 
Notre Dame came out in a man to Colt" took command of the boards Whitney's nine point output (two of man defense but immediately with the help of Jackson, whose ten from the field). f::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: "I do not think we played very
Ted Robinson well and we shot horribly,' com­plained Sloan. "I am not sure how much of it was caused by Notre Dame's tough defense or just poor play on our part." Phelps indi­cated the W olfpack' s lack of suc­cess was attributable to his own team's play. "I feel we had to do 
A few years ago,. a fellow named Bernie Parrish wrote a book entitled certain things tonight and one of They Call It A Game. All the NFL moguls collectively' gagged. It was the those things was solid defense. It type of book which America had never seen the likes of before. was our be:>t defensive game in a 
Parrish, a starting defensive back on the Cleveland Browns' contending long while because we kept the Tracy jackson, the epitome of concentration, sparked the Irish in teams of the mid-1960's, had the nerve to suggest that there was more to intensity up the whole way.'' last night's 70-59 trouncing of N.C. State. (photo by Kevin Walsh] the NFL than met the eye. He suggested that owners were in cahoots with The Irish boasted four players in with eleven points and eleven the end of the schedule as tough as each other to do such evil things as blacklist players, intimidate double figures with Batton's 22 rebounds in the game. · possible to prepare us for the insubordinates and officials, and run the league as if it was a big business. points, 12 rebounds reigning After losses in two of Notre playoffs,'' he commented after the 
Bernie Parrish was the first player to suggest that pro football was a big supreme. Duck Williams and Rich Dame's last three games an always game. "I feel we have proved we business. The first inklings had come in 1963 when Alex Karras and Paul Branning combined for 23 points vociferous Phelps seemed more are one of the top 32 teams in the Hornung were suspended for a year apiece for betting on games. But the but connected on only seven of 20 intense than usual in his courtside country."NFL did a tremendous public-relations job in convincing the American from the floor. Jackson finished coaching. "We ·wanted to make Notre Dame will meet their public that this was an isolated incident. After all, NFL players were the toughest opposition of the season perfect examples of the successful American male, possessing great Saturday in Marquette. The defen­
amounts of "macho". ding National Champs are present­Fifteen years later, the NFL seems to be in the same boat. Their ly rated number one in both the AP 
Just a Game? 
Marquette no. 1 
credibility is teetering dangerously on the brink of a sea of television and UPI polls. The tipoff is replays and referees' whistles. This past season produced more The major college basketball Notre Dame dropped two spaces scheduled for 4p.m.questionable decisions by coaches and referees than any other in recent teams are 'engaging in their own to ninth after a 65-60 loss to South memory. It's certainly enough to make you think. version of king of the hill these Carolina. The Irish ar,_e now 17-5. 
And I've thought about it enough to believe that there is more to the days. In the latest Associated Michigan State, 19-4, rounds out NDwomencagers NFL than the 60-minute game. I'm not quite sure to what extent things Press voting, reflecting games the Top Ten. The Spartans held at are "arranged", but too much has happened to write it all off as through Sunday, there is a dif­No. 10 despite a 99-80 trouncing by top Belles, 69-59 coincidence. ferent No. 1 team for the third week Purdue and a tough 79-74 victory 
For instance, in the thirteenth game of the season, Baltimore is playing in a row. over Ohio State. by Suzanna Behnke Detroit. The Colts are in the middle of a three-team dogfight in the AFC Two weeks ago Kentucky stood Sports Writer East. Despite having players fumble twice without being touched (a at the top of the heap, a position questionable occurrence in itself), the Colts led by a field goal with 9 they held consistently for the first %Observer The Notre Dame Women's Bas­seconds to play. On fourth down, Coach Ted Marchibroda had his team half of the year, before relinquish­ketball team closed their regular punt. Only David Lee had the punt blocked for a touchdown and the Lions ing it to Arkansas last week after a season with a victory over the Saint won the game. loss to Lousiana State. But Mary's Belles, thus finishing 11

sports
Then, after the game, mathematicians discovered that it was actually Arkansas lost to Houston Saturday, and 2 overall. In the past five d;:.,rs advantageous for the Colts to lose the game in their quest for a playoff which paved the way for Marquette the Irish have defeated I-·~; ~... berth. to take over-as No.1. Tech 68-51 •. Marion Colle -62-5 
Now, it doesn't take a PhD to figure out that you would NEVER have The Wandors received 40 of 55 and Monday evening u;., trish your punter actually try and punt the ball in the situation that confronted first-place votes in the nationwide Skiers take title played their first game in the the Colts. Yet, Ted Marchibroda had Lee try and punt the ball, knowing balloting of sports writers and Angela facility, upending the well there would be an eleven-man rush. broadcasters, and a total of 1,034 The Notre Dame ski team cap-Belles 69-59. 
And Marchibroda didn't even admit to making a tactical blunder. Was points. The defending NCAA tured the first place title in the The Marion game, played last this the case of an unorthodox coaching maneuver or a "prearranged champions defeated Wisconsin and Midwest Collegiate Ski Association Saturday was the last home game situation"? Cincinnati in last week's action, Championships held this past Sat-of the season. Jane Politiski led the 
Case Two occurred on Thanksgiving Day in St. Louis. It was a call by a improving their record to 21-2. urday at Brule Mountain, Michi-overall scoring with 14 points and referee very similar to the famous BerfJones call later in the season. A Kentucky moved a step back gan. 17 rebounds. St. Louis defensive back intercepted a Bob Griese pass and promptly towards the top, after spending last The Irish team was one of 19 The only two seniors on the team fumbled the ball while in the process of being tackled. The official on the week in th(: No. 3 position. The teams competing i?Y invitation only were asked their feelings after their play correctly gave the ball to Miami. Wildcats, 2:0-2, received 11 first and pulled ahead to comfortably last game in the A.C.C. Marge 
While Griese was calling the next play in the huddle, the referee place votes and 936 points. defeat seco-nd place Minnesota by Meagher commented, "It's nice to decided he wanted St. Louis to have the ball, causing the usually Kentucky was a winner three time 37 points. Notre Dame finished win our last home game. It makes mild-mannered Don Shula to run halfway across the field in protest. last week. with 119 points, while the Gopers all the hours of practice worth­
Of course, there was the Bert Jones call about which New England fans UCLA, ranked third, also moved trailed with 82. Western Michigan while." Byrne Murphy replied, ri8htfully complain. In fact, the entire second half of that New up a notch. The Bruins narrowly finished third with 72 points. "Even though I don't play regular­England-Baltimore game was a farce. Despite owning leads of two and escaped with a 60-59 victory over Two Irish skiers were awarded ly, it's great to win the last home three touchdowns, the Patriots were called for three holding penalties. Washington State Friday night, but for their overall performances. game." Now, why would you hold if your team was ahead by three touchdowns in then destroyed Washington Satur­Remi Baylot, a MBA student from The Notre Dame-St Mary's game the third quarter of a key game? As a result of the horrendous officiating, day night. lUCLA, 20-2, received a Grenoble, France, placed first and proved the strength of the Irish Baltimore made the playoffs and New England and Miami kept more pair of first .. place votes and a total Mike Quinlivan, a sophomore from team. The St. Mary's fans were deserving teams home for the holidays. of 857 points. St. Cloud, Minnesota, placed third. entertained by their "cheer­
Finally, there was the Rob Lytle fumble and Jack Dolbin catch that were Arkansas dropped from first to These decisions were based on the leaders" but all were impressed by rulled to be a non-fumble and non-catch by the officials in the fourth after its 84-75 upset Joss to skiers' performances on two slalom the team work displayed by the Denver-Oakland playoff game. Houston. The Razorbacks, 25-2, and two giant slalom runs. Lally sisters, Carole and Maggie. 
It merely capped off a season that saw Pete Rozelle apologize to were the first Southwest Con­The MCSA attracted 60 skiers Carole led all scorers with 23 Ho_uston Coach Bum Phillips for poor officiating that cost Houston a ference team ever to be ranked No. who represented the best teams in points, many of which were made victory and probable playoff berth. It was a season where officials gained 1 in basketball. Arkansas received an eight state area and nine of possible by sharp passes from her the notoriety they've been seeking for so long. But, the/had to change the 695 points. those 60 were from Notre Dame. five-foot freshman sister. Jayne entire playoff setup to gain it. New Mexico, 21-2, held at No. S, "We really had a team effort," Politiski emerged with anouther 
I might be totally wrong about this notion. Perhaps all the. poor winning twice and collecting 614 Irish ski captain Tom Lux stated. outstanding performance with 15 officiating and coaching blunders were coincidences. But, if they are, points, while Kansas stayed put in "We had seven other guys who points, 19 rebounds and 7 of 10 then the NFL has some explaining to do. With the tremendous amounts of sixth place. The Jayhawks, 22-3, really did a good job in backing up from the freethrow line. revenue they take in, they owe the players and the public competent received 57~ points. Baylot and Quinlivan and that's Two players of special mention, officiating. DePaul moved up one spot to what you need to win a race." The for determination on both offense 
But, I don't think the NFL is that stupid. They have competent officials seventh and! collected the remain­team was rounded out by Mike and defense, are Carola Cummings who are manipulated to certain degrees. I'm not sure why this happens or ing two first-place votes. The Blue Case, Jim Byrne, Pete Rowland, and Pat Meyer. Cummings why 1977 seemed to be the year that it came to the public's attention. Demons, 22-2, accumulated 547 Steve L'Heureax, Ted Stenger and sparked_ the initial Irish scoring However, NFL football is more than a game. points. Aft·er spending a week in Joe Dwyer. streak in the first half that saw 
There will be people who will shudder when they think that the the Second Ten, North Carolina "It was an icy and treacherous Notre Dame add ten points in two outcomes of NFL games may be determined before the teams take the jumped bac:k to No. 8 with easy course," Lux said "but we per-minutes. Meyer fought for two key field. After all, this is the real American pastime. But, for all the wins over K'ent State and Virginia. formed well. We believe that we rebounds in the closing minutes of skeptics, simply consider everything that happened in the NFL this year The Tar He1els, 22-5, collected 361 now have a legitimate claim to the the game that stifled St. Mary's
..' and ask yOUPSelvcs if-it's onthe level~-I know my _answer. . :: _:: ___ . poin~-_ ~!lti~~al_ ~~~pionship.''H .. .-.. ·.Jaopes ofan upset. 







