Yesterddy's sunshine brought the ND Ceramics Club pottery sale out of O'Shag and on to the quad. The sale continues today and tomorrow. [photo by Ron Szot] 
Meets with Carter 
Begin visits ~White House 
W ASIIINGTON (i\ Pl -President Carter and Prime Minister Mcna­chem Begin celebrated Israel's 30th birthda,· ve~terda~· as Con­grc-.~ began con~idering a propo­.,cd thrce-wa~· jet fighter sale that ha., heightened tcn.,iom, bel\\ een the United States and the Jewish .,tate. 
The occasion for Begin's visit was a White How,c reception marking the U.S. observance of the anniver­.,arv of the founding of Israel in 194X. Carter invited about 1,200 rahbis and other Jewish leaders to join him and Begin at the White House reception. 
The Israeli leader also planned to hold private talks with Carter concerning the impasse in Middle East peace talks. But it was not immediately known whether the pair would discuss Carter's plan to sell jet fighters to Saudi Arabia and Egypt as well as to Israel. 
Begin spent Sunday in New York, where he attended ceremonies marking the Jewish uprising in the Warsaw ghetto during World War 
II. and he planned to fly to Los Angeles for another anniversary celebration late yesterday. 
Secretary of State Cyrus Vance greeted Begin on his arrival at Andrews Air Force Base but nei­ther one took questions from reporters. 
In a brief statement. Begin said he was "very grateful" to Carter for having the reception and was hopeful that the peacemaking pro-· cess would continue. 
Vance noted that celebrations of Israel's anniversary would takt: place throughout th~ United States this week. And he said Israel's security is a goal to which Ameri­cans feel a "deep commitment, a commitment on which Israel can depend." 
Vance and Begin then left for a working luncheon at the State Department. after which Begin went to the White House for the reception. 
Begin. emerging from a two-hour meeting with Vance, expressed optimism that lsraeli-Egyption peace negotiations can resume 
SMC students sustain injuJries in traffic mishap 
Two Saint Mary's sophomores are in fair condition at St. Joseph's Hospital today after sustaining injuries in an automobile-motor­cycle accident 6 p.m. Friday near the ACC. 
The two girls were travelling west by motorcycle on Dorr Road when an oncoming car turned left off of Dorr onto Juniper Road and col­lided with them. 
The driver of the car was blamed for turning too soon, according to Indiana State Police reports, but the driver of the motorcycle was reportedly "driving too fast for road conditions." 
One girl received head lacerations and a left leg fracture, while the other received a possible left ankle fracture. and lower body contu­sions and abrasions. The driver of the automobile was not injured. 
Because the accident occurred on a county road, an Indiana State Trooper handled the report, but Notre Dame Security personnel were also present at the scene to direct the flow of traffic. 
soon. 
Referring to Israeli opposition to the proposed jet fighter sale. Begin said only that "we agreed to dif­fer. .. But his mood was upbeat as he met with reporters. 
Meanwhile, two congressional co­mittees began studying Carter's proposed $4.8 billion arms sales. The arms deal was taken up by the House International Relations Co­mmittee and the Senate Foreign Relations Committee. 
Under terms of the proposed sales. Israel would be sold 75 F-16s and 15 F-ISs. while Saudi Arabia would receive 60 F-Ss. Congress has until May 28 to voice its disappro¥al of the deal. 


SU concludes year 1with budget surplus 
byBWSchoU 

It is a rare occurrence these days when something costs less money than was originally expected. It is even more surprising when a government associated organiza­tion announces that it has con­cluded its fiscal year by coming in under its projected budget. 
But this is exactly what Notre Dame's Student Union (SU) did this year. according to Director Bill Roche. 
Due to a combination of highly successful concerts and good man­agement by former SU Director Tom Gryp and Comptroller Colleen McGrath, a surplus of approxi­mately $20,000 existed as of May I, Roche said. 
"I'm not sure if it has happe'ned before but I do know it is a rarity," Roche continued. "I know it hasn't happened recently because the Union has been in debt since the Alice Cooper concert about five years ago. 
According to Roche, much of the money will go towards fi­nancing programs that could not previously be afforded. Student Union has already purchased 51 refrigerators to increase their stock from 299 to 350, he noted. 
More of the surplus funds are being spent to finance a "Welcome Week" which will be held during the first week of school next fall. 
This program will involve two outdoor concerts, a concert and double feature movie in Stepan Center, and a campus-wide picnic. Also scheduled during Welcome Week is a concert by Kris Kristof­ferson and Rita Coolidge. 
"We don't want to spend money just to spend money,'' Roche emphasized. "We•are using it to finance worthwhile projects that all the students will benefit from." "We would also like to accomplish as much this year as possible with the surplus funds because it will leave us more time and money to do the things we want to do next year," he added. 
Roche said he feels the surplus is a direct tribute to the management capabilities of Gryp and McGrath. "We are in debt to T~m and Colleen for keeping a cl9se eye on their budget and for managiug it as well as they did." · 
"I just hope we can do the job as efficiently in the upcoing year as they did this year," Roche con­cluded. 

Alleged dope dealers expelled from school 
by Steve Needles 

Two Notre Dame students charged with the selling of mari­juana on campus were recently dismissed from the University by James Roemer, dean of students. 
In what he referred to as "strictly a University matter," Roemer gave the two students "48 hours notice to permanently vacate their dormitory" after they were found to be selling "sizeable quantities" of the drug "over the past academic year." 
"I was first notified of the offense about eight or nine days ago," Roemer said, "and by Friday both students were gone." He refused to comment on how the dealings were discovered, how­ever. 
Judicial Coordinator Jayne Rizzo commented that she was not noti­fied of the charges until "serious and irreversible complications had developed.·' She expressed frus­tration at not being involved in the proceedings from the very begin­ning. 
As a result of this, Rizzo said, "I urge any student who receives a directive from the Dean to contact either myself or Kevin Mescall as soon as possible." 
According to "Student Rights in Disciplinary Proceedings," out­lined in duLac, students are enti-• tied to "free choice of undergradu­ate student counsel." Roemer noted that the two students simply chose not to take advantage of this right. 
Roemer also offered this warning to students: "The selling of mari­juana or other drugs is a serious University offense, and any student caught doing it in the future will be dealt with in a similar manner." 


----~----~--~­
Tuesday, May 2, 1978

2 the observer __ _ 
,_News Briefs ________,_ 
Moro still missing 
ROME -The Red Brigades telephoned a new ultimatum to Aldo 
Moro's family threatening to kill the former premier in a "few 
hours" if the Italian government did not immediately agree to 
bargain for his life, a Rome newspaper reported yesterday. The threat was being taken seriously by the family, the paper said. Top leaders of the ruling Christian Democrat Party met for more than an hour yesterday to discuss the latest development in the kidnapping, but there was no sign the government would soften its position of refusing to negotiate with Italy's most feared terrorist group. 
Man climbs to save whales 
CHICAGO-A 25-year-old man scaled 18 stories up the face of the 110-story Sears Tower yesterday and descended safely after four hours, leaving a banner reading "Stop Killing the Whales" flapping from the world's tallest building. Joseph E. Healy was charged with disorderly conduct and the improper display of a sign after he attached the white banner with red lettering in Russian and Japanese to the western facade of the steel and glass structure. 

Weather 
Clear nights and mostly sunny days through tomorrow with gradual warming towards Wednesday. highs today in the mid-to-upper SO's. Lows tonight in the mid-to-uoper 30's. Highs tomorrow in the low-to-mid 60's. 


~On Campus Today _..
_  
6am-6pm  primary elections vt ting, at stepan center for nd residents who are registered to vote here at campus.  
3:00pm  lecture, "problems related to east anglian psalters," prof. richard schneider, univ. of york. art gallery. sponsored by medieveal institute.  
4:00pm  ceremony, air force rotc awards. library aud. and lounge.  
4:30pm  seminar, "methods for improving cereal protein quality," dr. edwin t. mertz, purdue univ. 278 galvin aud.  
6:30pm  banquet, st. mary's athletic banquet. dining hall, smc.  
6:45pm  rosary at the grotto, every evening in may.  
7:00pm  film series, "night moves" carroll hall, smc.  
7:00pm  lecture, "an environmental approach to limestone diagenesis," eugene a. shinn, program chief u.s. geological survey. 101 earth science building. sponsored by earth sciences.  
7:30pm  eucharist, charismatic eucharist. log chapel. open to all.  
7:30pm  meeting, amPrican society of mechanical engineers . .. rm 303 eng. bldg.  
7:30pm  multi-media lecture, "outtakes & bloopers," her­bert graff, curator of films at brooklyn museum. library aud. sponsored by studen~ union  
8:00pm  second scene nd/smc theatre, "all my sons" vegetable buddies. no charge.  
STUDENT UNION  




SMC to celebrate Survival Day 
"Survival Day" will be celebrated tomorrow at Saint Mary's in accor­dance with the nationally-observed "Sun Day," a day designated to acknowledge efforts to replace oil, coal, and nuclear energy with solar power. 
According to Peter Smith, SMC associate professor of mathema-
Toll company seeks interviewers 
Students are needed to interview motorists at area toll plazas. Salary is $3 an hour. The cop1pany will provide transportation if necessary. 
This position will begin tomorrow. Applications will be available at the Placement Bureau meeting. 
*The Observer 
Night Editor: Chris Slatt Asst. Night Editor: Katie "Never Again" Kerwin Layout Staff: Missing in Action Features Layout: Kevin Thad­deus Paulson Sports Layout: Greg ''Jour­nal" Solman,· aided and abet­ted by Fierce Frank LaGrotta 
Typists: Leigh Tuna can (yuk, yuk). Sue Scribner, Tricia Meehan, Stacy Weaver Night Control: Mike Bodle (Lisa DiV missed her last chance to work with me.) Day Editor: Kathy McEntee Copy Reader: Bob Varettoni (another retiring vet) Ad Layout: Beth Cutter Photographer: Ron Szot Last week's Paper of the Week: Rosemary Mills 
The Ooserver is published Mon. day through Fridn except during exam and vacation penods The Observer Is publishlld by the students of Notre Dame a,d Ssi'lt Mary•s College. Subscriptions may be purchased •or 520 per year ($1 0 per semester) from The Observer, P.O. Box Q, lllotre Dame, lndia'la 40H4. Seco'ld clan postage oard. Not,. Deme. Indiana, 46H4 
The Ob~Prw.r '' e member ol tne Auoclated f'r.u. All repro­duction rights are re•er11ed. 



ij.ICXJ\IIVDS iTHE-SfUDENTUNION --­
F 826 eddv 233-0875 carry out sandwiches • 
PIZZO 


beer 

liquor 
Observer Staffers! bring your friends to the year end. 
IACADEMIC COMMISSION I PRESENTS 
iQUf-tAKEs·~ 1---------~~~ 
BLOOPERS• WITH: HERB GRAFF• 

MAy 2 liBRARY AUDITORIUMI 
7:30 PM ADMISSION FREEl 
L----------------------------~ 
tics, there is an "imperative" need to convert to solar, wind and water energy. 
"Making this conversion will re­quire that we begin creating instit­utions that are smaller and more humane," Smith commented. "To do this we must develop a new respect and caring for individual life in all forms." 
The program will begin at 3:30 
p.m. outside of the dining hall. A short sequence of talks on nuclear arms and power plants will be followed by small group discus­sions and activities on such topics as the protection of whales and 
Observer Editorial Board 
Tonv PacP StPVP Odland Ioh n Calcutt B.trh I anghenry Ro~t'llldry Mills f'hd CcHkfpy It'Ml Powlpy Ann Cc!IPS ,'V\d,f• I.PWI~ Dr.trw \1\'d~on l~.t\ C) llrrl'n lln ,111 Crul•·\ 


TUESDAY 
w I J-­NO SMC  THE MIKAOO Gilbert and Sullivan's sparkling operetta. April28,29 May4.5.6 8:00p.m  
THEATRE  Otaughlin Auditorium  

Phone 2844176 S1d!Fac/S1aff: $2.0C 


Yearbooks are in and can be picked up 1n the ballroom of LaFortune on 
Tuesday 3-5 Wednesday 1-5 Thursday 1-5 

Pleasr bring your ND 10 cJrd 

Editor-rn-Chief Managing Editor Executive Editor Executive Editor Editorial Editor Copy Editor St Mary's Editor News Editor News Editor News Editor Sports Editor Features Editor 
dolphins and "The Simple Life.' 
Students interested in plannil small group activities or helpi1 with publicity should contact Smi at 4-1-4439. 

Placement Burea1 to hold meeting 
There will be a general instruction a! meeting this afternoon at 
p.m. in the Notre Dame Placemen Bureau for any student interestec in immediate part-time employ­ment with Wilbur Smith and Associates. 


~·uesday, May 2, 1978 
the observer 
Court allows publication of secret proceedings 
W ASIDNGTON [AP] -The Su­
reme Court ruled yesterday that 
news reporters cannot be criminal­
y punished for disclosing truthful 
accounts of secret governmental 
proceedings to readers, viewers 
ahd listeners. 
Before recessing for two weeks, 
the justices struck down a Virginia 
Jaw that made it a crime to report 
about a state judicial commission's 
confidential inquiries about judge's 
fitness to hold office. 
Although most states cloak such 
Brigadier general 
addresses 
Naval ROTC 
by Ed Marshall 
The Naval ROTC held its annual 
Pass and Review Ceremony and 
Parade last Saturday outside Step­
an Center at 10 a.m. · Reviewing Officer and guest ispeaker at this event, which saw 
the presentation of 30 unit, Univer­\ity, and national organization 1twards to outstanding midship­~en, was Brigadier General Vin­
<:ente T. Blaz. USMC. 
Blaz. a 1951 graduate ot Notre Dame. spoke of the future respon­sibilities a midshipman will face upon becoming an officer. citing personal experiences from his own career. 
"For those of vou who are 
graduating in a fev.: weeks. school 
is over." the general said, "But 
your education continues. 
Although you may never totally 
attain it you must pursue it with , tenacity. For what you seek is the ultimate in education: wisdom." 
Blaz emphasized the degree of P.rofessionalism involved, stating that the "professionalism involved, stating that the "profession of arms" is as singular and as demanding a profession as any other. 
He concluded his speech by thanking his hosts for having given him the opportunity to address the midshipmen at this ceremony. "By inviting me.to come here today. you have saluted my Corps and me. In the finest tradition of the Marines. I return that salute." 
After the ceremony came to a close Blaz left to return to Washington. D.C .. where he is currently deputy chief of staff for Reserve Affairs and director of information for the United States Marine Corps. 
r His/ previous staff assignments include his representation of the Joint Chiefs of Staff at several international organizations in Helsinki and Geneva, including investigations in secrecy, only Vir. ginia and Hawaii made it a crime for someone not linked to the state commissions to break through th wall of confidentiality. 

Landmark Communications, publisher of the Vlrginian-Pillot newspaper in Norfolk, was indicted convicted and fined $500 after the newspaper ran an accurate report in 1975. The article said that the state's Judicial Inquiry and Review Commission had studied com­plaints against a local domestic relations judge, H. Warrington Sharp. 
"The article published by Land-­mark provided accurate factual information about a legislatively authorized inquiry...and in so do­ing clearly served those interests in public scrutiny and discussion of governmental affairs which the First Amendment was adopted to protect," Chief Justice Warren E. Burger wrote for the court. 
In another development, the court set the stage for what may become another important free press ruling when it agreed to decide how much discretion judges have in deciding when to keep reporters and the public out of usually public court proceedings. 
The justices voted to hear an appeal by the Gannett Co., Inc., news organization seeking to over­turn a sweeping courtroom-access ruling by New York's highest court in a Rochester murder case. 
Using a tactic that has seen rapid growth since a 1976 Supreme Court ruling virtually outlawing reporting prohibitions on information gathered in open court, a trial judge in that case merely ejected the public and news media from a pre-trial hearing. 
Gannett's appeal gives the jus­tices the chance to establish guide­lines for judges who want to insure fair trials. The court's eventual decision, which won't come until next year, may tell all judges how to weigh free-press and open-court interests with the competing need for a fair trial. 
In other matters Monday, the court: -Decided, by a 6-3 vote, that municipal utilities cannot cut off service because of non-payment without first giving customers a chance to resolve billing disputes. 
In an unprecedented ruling wri•­ten by Justice Lewis F. Powell Jr., 

the court said utility customers have a constitutionally-protected interest in receiving service be­cause such service is "a necessity of modern life." -Ruled that former Green Beret doctor Jeffrey R. MacDonald must stand trial on charges of murder in the 1970 bludgeoning and stabbing deaths of his wife and two young children. -Rejected efforts by 60 House of Representatives members to scut­tle the Panama Canal treaties ratified by the Senate earlier this month. -Left .intact a decision barring baseball star Roberto Oemente's widow from coDecting damages for her husband's 1972 air crash deatL. 
student union social commission · has it all for you! 
S()rl11" ~tJ§I£ 1311tz 
inside6pm Stepan CenterWed. May 3 

(due to cold ) 

Sll11t 
()()llcl 

()r()U() 
ft;cJttJrlll" 
()ul2.: I uruClt()t? 
~ ~tilt? 
All StClr fr()"§ 


Continental's Chickenfeed Fares are the solution to the dis­count fares confusion. Pure and simple. 
Chickenfeed Fares are simple. There are no lower fares anywhere 
we fly. Save 40% on weekdays, JO% on weekends to all our mainland cities. (Between selected cities you'll save 50% or more.) 
They're this pure. There are no restrictions of any kind. No buying your ticket a month in advance. No minimum stays. No maximum stays. Fly one way or round trip. And get a full refund if you cancel. 

i I 
: \ Call your Campus Rep, Travel\ Agent or Continental Airlines. Ask for the Qhickenfeed Fare. Then make tracks for somewhere nice. 
sampleOneWoyFores Reg'~larCoach CfilckentJed Percentage Chicago to: f f:ore Fare ', Savings 
Colorado Springs $102 $61 40% 
Denver 102 61 40% 
Kansas City 60 30 50% 
--~------------------------~------­
Los Angeles 165 99 40% 
Chickenfeed Fares effective May 15. Weekdays (Monday-ThurS<llayl: weekends I Fridav-Sundavl. I 
Chica~o' Los Angeles S99 fare effective at this time I on all nonstop flights. 
The only limitation is the number of seats..--•lllf•~~t•l available. So don't wait. 

We really1moveour t~il for you. _. I ! CONTINENTAL AIRUNES 8 
The ProJd Bud Wllh !he Golden Tall · 
I 
I I 
I 

the observer Tuesday, Moly 2, 1978 

-··--------~-­
---------------------------~----.----~--------------------------.---~ 
Fiction 
For I have known th•em all already, 
known them all ­
Have known the evenings, morn­
ings, afternoons, 
I have measured out my life with 
coffee spoons; 
I know the voices dying with a 
dying fall 
Beneath the music from a farther 
room. 
So how should I presume? 
The room is filled with smoke, sun, and a little twilight. The sun through the low window catches the polish on the little chess pieces as Raymond and his brother move them around the board. Raymond wins by trapping his brother's men in a corner. The game, Raymond thinks, is beautiful -the motions are precise and purposeful, but they are motions to deceive, to entrap the other, the wielding of a savage and beautiful army in the hand. 
In hts dream he walked along the rail ot the steamboat, with his hat in his hand (a big white plantation owner's hat, he noted with surprise when he looked down) and his gambler's cane. Along the river the willows swept down to the water's edge, trailing their long branches in the muddy dark water. 
** 
There was a letter **from his father, his heavy-voiced father. Raymond remembers scenes with his father. breaking dishes in anger, his mother crying at the tension and furv in the room. ··Afraid to touch down," the. letter says. "Graduating now, going out into the world." it says. ''I think tts tim" for you to be responsible, Raymond. Wanting to travel and wanting to be 'free', as \'OU say, IS al) wdl and !!ood, but when are you going to touch down, pay the bills, get a job?" 
** 
He sat quietly in his room, looking into the courtyard. He felt very passive, waiting for somethi?g. Anything. Everyone •expected htm to be someone other than who he was. Why? His roommate John had told him of the experiment they ran today in psychology class, a rat placed in a maze. Somewhere in the maze was food for the rat, and he ran around looking for it. Finally, exhausted. the ralt had stopped, and had waited in the corner, quivering and with glazed eyes, for something to haooen. 
** 
For English cl~~s they have to go see a movie, something vaguely attached to Faulkner. There is a long line outside the Engineering Auditorium and he waits for a long time, finally gets in. The scene he remembers, the only scene, is a quick flashing glimpse of a horse caught in a burning stable, a wild and furious image of a raging, wide-eyed, fearful horse trapped in the fire. Those terrible eyes stay with him, the tossing head, flying horse hairs, bloodshot and fire-filled eyes burning within his. 
** 
The woman in his dream loved him; he remembered her touch clearly. They were leaning over the railing together, arms entangled, a:nd the water slid past in a smooth curl. 
** 
Raymond in the bar. elbow up, foot on footrest. with his friend Spence, who tells him of their friend Sully who's taken a job as a CPA in Boston. Raymond is disappointed; Sully hadn't wanH:d to be a CPA. 

Raymond 
-He got ·~aught, Ray, Spence said. I guess he figured eating was a good habit he couldn't get out of, you know. -Good money? -Got to eat, Ray, Spence said. 
There was a drunk by the back table, next to the mirror on the dance floor. Spenc•e !told Raymond the guy was there nearly every day, and drunk most of the time. Raymond thought then of the horse, trapped, and having to be blinded so it could be led from the fire, the trap. 
** 

~aying chess again, again with his brother. His innate sense of movement and plotting, that all good chess players have, that grace and timing, the movement of the whole board frozen in the mind sontehow, is offended by his actions, which are to let his queen be taken; but then. he fights back and wins anyway. He feels guii!ty, victorious, and satisfied with his victory, all at the same time, and he doesn't know exactly how to resolve his feelings. His brother is happy the game was well-fought, and says so. Raymond wonders why he thought it so necessary to win this game, when he could so easily have lost. He feels incomplete, somehow unfinished, in himself. He feels he should have lost, without any sorrow. For Raymond, though, the game has an extra significance. The grace and agility, the drive and purpose inherent in the game, mean more to him than to others. Something tremendously important is caught in the movement of those little wooden pieces--in the space of their short lives on the board. Each time he touches them to move them against the white army, he gives them all life, he is their creator, in 
a sersc. They wait expectantly for him to move them around, in their fixed patterns that constantly shift. Paradox. They can 
little feat's waiting for columbus 
roll right through the night 
... here i am trying to write a record review about the feat'!> latest effort with an idea about a literary (perhap~l style ala lowell george i'm just about to give up the venture and submit a "straight" piece but bryan says to try it so i will just let it be known that any offense is mine and not the guys who play on this record if i ever see them (or brvan) on the street i'll apologize till it hurts-before i go into significance i think i should say something abut the cover if you who are reading arc now aware waiting for columbus is the name of this disk(s) and most recent release of little feat: a two-record set of live performances recorded at home and albroad (london and someplace near chesapeake bay similar to washington de) you can see it (the record(s) that is) at most local record shops neon park does the graphics again be sure to notice the color scheme (same as previous albums) and the cacti and the tiki and the smiling tomato in the hammock more clever than most other bands in this repect even though they never did quite make it in 

the I.a. suburbs but do get mentioned in some tine publications from time to time but before i lose your interest i will get back to the music "join in the band" is the first 
tune • and is sung by the· band with simple guitar accompaniment while they appear on the stage quite good if you like to be friendly and inspired the band slides into "fat man in the bathtub" (previously on dixie chicken): a good introduction of george's slide guitar and the syncopated rhythms that characteri:ze the feats not to mention the nice keyboards of bill payne interesting lyrics: 
all i want in this life of mine is some 
good clean fun . 
all i want in this life and time is some 
hit and run 
... i said juanita, my sweetchtquita 
what arc you up to 
cause there's a fat man in the bathtub 
with the blues 
next is "all that you dream" (previously on the last record aJbum) a tune displaying rvthmic surprises and dynamics enough to send goose bumps down the soine of any avid fan after that comes' '"oh atlanta" (from feats don't fail me now) and is a good example of "that down home beat" that would send our folks jitterbugging down the street net to mention some tasty slide guitar finishing the. side is "old folks' boogie" (from time loves a hero!: 
and you know that you're over the hill 
mind makes a promise 
that your body can't fill 
doiin · the old folks boogie 
and boogie we will 
cause to us the thoughts as good as the 
thrill 
it's also a tune of interest to those who enjoy kenny gradney's bass playing (he knows euctly what not to play and when not to play it) the second side starts with "time loves a hero'' (from the same titled album) and displays the feat's ability to produce in a way unique to them t~e spirit of a culture (puerto rico in this case) paul barrere shows some nice guitar work here the band moves right into "day or night" (from the last record album) it being one of the more intriguing tunes on the album because of the various chord and rhythmic changes and the solos by paul barrere bill payne and lenny (from tower of power horn section--buy their albums for last names) and richi1e hayward's aggressive and always tight drumming (not to mention sam clayton's conga playing which is good) "mercenary territory" (from last record album) follows and introduces the com­plete tower of power horn section very complete and fo1ll sound from these guys this is one of my all-time favorite little feat tunes (can we get personal?) for sentimen­tal reasons a story of faded and jaded love affair!> (a vicarious association?): 

i did my time in that rodeo 
it's been so long and i've got nothing tc 
show 

well i'm so plain loco 
fool that i am i'd do it all over again lenny graces us with another fine solo after which comes "spanish moon" (from feats don'1t f11.il me now): a blues song sung with a vengeance: a story of the bar on the vicious side of town where you see a reverance for tough places and tougher folks: 
there'swhiskeyand bad cocaine 
poison get's you just the same 
and if that don't kill you soon 
the women will at the spanish moon side three starts with "dixie chicken" from album of same name bill payne plays amazing honky tonk piano and is accom­panied by tower or power's dbdeland re~dition: a real treat on this familiar fa orite one can whisteLin the rain or sil ntly sing during any dull lecture "tripe faoe boogie" (from sa.iJin' shoes and feats don't fall me oow) i:o. next and fulfills its task of back on your feats again inspiration bill payne solos again into a full band in~tnml\'11 tal it is at this point that littl feat most displays their virtuosity as musical unit: a unified intensity of soum~ 
brian doyle 

only move in certain patterns, only prescribed paths. Yet their movements are never the same, and every game ever played is different from all the others. 
** 

He read, as the sun streamed over and through the green and red plants on the windowsill; When I am pinned and wriggling on the wall, Then how should I begin To spit out all the butt-ends of my days and ways? 
And how should 1presume? 

On the railing on **the steamboat, with the woman hanging on his arm, he strains to hear the sound, which is out-of-place, yet something he knows well; it sounds too near and clearly foreign here on the wide river, something which crawled on board when no one was looking, perhaps at Natchez or wherever they last stopped to gather wood for the banked fires. He turns and goes into the main hall of the ship, where all the gambling is, its almost a saloon, he hears the sound again as he comes through "the door. It's a horse's neigh, but more, it's a scream. a ripping shrill sound of terror and fury. He sees next to the bar a huge chess piece, six feet tall, a knight, with it's horse screams a tearing sound of raw fear, its eyes bright with reflected fire. The head tosses on the stiff body, but the base of the piece, like a tree trunk, never moves. Raymond has that scrt!am of terror ringing in his ears. In his hand, the gambler's cane, the baton of office for the important and wealthy gambling man. He reaches and swings it into those crazy, terrible eyes, plunging th~ stick into the fire, the blazing eyes that stare madly into the haze of the room. 
john fitzpatrick 

and rhythmic ctnve characteristic of their unique artistry anyway they finish this side with "rocket in my pocket" (from time loves a hero)which is a traditional blues motif coated with layers of funk and sophisticated rhythm side four offers the other little feat a chance to get kinda personal and intimate like the pleasant surprise is that it comes off well and it's real and it's got a lot of heart "willin' " (from Uttle feat and sallin' shoes) is of course the first cut and everyone who has played american folk music recently knows this one:­
"i was out on the road late one night 
seen my pretty alice iri every headlight 
alice dallas alice 
....I've driven every kind of rig that's 
even been made 
driven the back roads so i wouldn't get 
weighed 
and if you give me weed whites and wine 
and show me a sign 

i'll be willin' to keep on movin' " "don't bogart" is next and brings it all back home for those who grew up mellow and smoking joints in the pr:_ocess the crowd loves that one folks I "a apolitical blues" (from &afUn' shoes] gives us some really good blue·s (something about chair­man mao on the telephone and a disdain for the unholy four john wayne and dorothy !amour) this is remindful of the jam all night bands of a few years ago "sailin shoes" (from album of same) follows is fun including some extra fine slide guitar oy george crowd participation gets real good here for last is "feats don't fail me now" (from you know which one by now) and shows the crowd's spontaneous approval of what's happening to their ears "roll right through the night" is sung by the band and the crowd and everybody feels good which is good i think it's a superior choice for your record collection even though rriost of the songs are on other records you might 
have4ach song is without waste or ;uperfluous extras for commercial appeal like paul barrere described hollywood one time a giant fruit salad with a twist of a cool whip/lik.e a mirage in your garage so said fred martin live records in this kind of mu'\ic somethimes lack the polish of the studio but litll:· feat gives a fresh tomato on th;!> "n~ lilce the other ones waiting for <'f,il:•;,bu& is fun and has "depth" and ma~'~s you ~~wish you were there when they were i.l.c..-e doing it... 
r'•~·6.....th•:--o•b•&•e•:•·e-r----------T~u-es.da·y~,~M-av·2~.-,9•7•8----------------------------------------------------------­
r 
SMC student interest in ERA low
by Michael Molinelli 
I 


THE EXPONENTIAL GROWTH OF MUD PIT DUNKI e: FRIENDS TI/Ro'w' SUBJECT 
SUBJECT ~··AND FRIENDS mss IN SUBJECT 'B" 
':4" AND "B" THROW IN ·c·­
"D 11
FRJ£NDS DUNf< 
"A·, "8'' AND"C'1 -THROW IN TOTAL 5TRAN6ER 1'£''-''F ,, 
AND FRIENDS TOSS ... 

Bike-a-thon raises $4-5,000 
An expcCied four to five thousand dollars was raised for the American Cancer Society during a South Bend "bike-a-thon" last Saturday. 
Approximately 250 people partici­pated in the event, riding the 13 mile t·oursc around St. Joe's River. A local youth who rode the longest distance, a total of 65 miles, received a football autographed by the Notre Dame football squad. 
The most money raised by an individual rider was SSOO. Four trophies were awarded to the four top money-makers in the different age groups. 
.Jim Grace, a Notre Dame student and one of the coordinators of the bike-a-thon, said he was pleased with the results and that he felt it was a success. 
EI.JR~PE 
l'-'' til""  JL l.j:4-n'-m' • 12 ld rt: .  
(800) 325-48€7  
(I'  ..,rr  v"u'  • ....,~:  •'~···,,  
@ Un;{ruvel Chartus •  

by Jean Powley Saint Mary's Editor 
Since Saint Mary's is a women's 

college and this is an age in which 
women are pushing for equal 
rights, one would expect a relative­
ly high degree of interest and 
involvement in the movement at 
the college. This has not been true 
so far. however. 
With the exception of the recent 

Women's Opportunity Week and 
the women's studies lecture series 
which preceeded it, student inter­
est in women's rights, specifically 
the Equal Rights Amendment 
(ERA), has been nil. Most of the 
concern and interest has been 
exhibited by administration and 
faculty members. 
John Duggan, college president, 

has always been in favor of the 
ERA. In fact, over the years he has 
written several letters to congress­
men and newspapers supporting 
the amendment. 
''ERA is an idea of the Indiana 

Senate Governmental Committee. 
"Though progress has been made 
in the area of equal rights for 
women without benefit of a consti­
tutional amendment, making ERA 
the law of the land will speed that 
progress. ensuring that all Ameri­
cans whatever race, creed, color, or 
sex will enjoy the liberty and justice 
that are the goals of our demo­
cracy," the letter continued. 
As former vice-president of Vass­

ar ('ollegc, an institution known for 
its feminist involvemenl, Duggan 
admitted that if he had been at 
some other school during the 
tumultuous early 70s he probably 
would not have been as exposeQ to 
lhe ERA and its merits. Yet, he 
maintains that "once informed. 
any sane-thinking person would be 
in favor of the ERA." 
"Unfortunately. the ERA has 

been colored by its most outspoken 
proponcnls. But any movement al 
the beginning attracts people of 
radical disposition," Duggan ex­
phlincd. 
In rcalily, the F.RA is "simply 

lrying to adjust and correct social 
injustice," according to Duggan. II 
would just make women and men 
equal under the law. he observed. 
Because it hits dose to home. 

though. the ERA has been the 
victim of·' unrealistic opposition for 
convoluted reasons." he said. 
_Storage co. reps 
I 
to visit SMC 

Whitmer Services. who handle Saint Mary's summer storage. will have representatives on campus at lht following times and places: 
Saturday. May 13. from 8 a.m. to noon at Lemans and Holv Cross. Monday. May IS. from 9 ·a.m. to 5 
p. n). at all four dorms. Tuesday. May 16. from 9 a.m. to 3 p.m. at all four dorms and Wedncsdav. Mav 
17. from q a.m. to noon at all fou'r dorms. 
Anv student who wishes to store her -items before May 13 will be charged an additional $2.50. For more information. contact either the Housing Office (5401) or Whitmer Services (234-503 I). 
Relay team takes second 

[continued from p.7 l The ICAAAA will be held at Franklin Field in the City of Brotherly Love on May 19-20 and Piane feels the meet will give his squad a chance to compete against the best competition in the east. 
"We have the largest crop of ICAAAA qualifiers in recent years and we hope to qualify a few more at Northwestern." points out Piane. "The ICAAAA is the most prestigious meet on the eastern circuit and we are anxious to try our Some of the anti-ERA arguments include loss of alimony for women. women going to war, and the misconception that the ERA is pro-abortion. Duggan dismisses these arguments as ridiculous. 
hand  against  such  p  ers  as  
Villanova,  Penn  and  th.  militarv  
academies."  ·  

As far as Saint Mary's is concern­ed, Duggan admitted that there was less interest on campus than he had expeded. He attribu­ted this to "the crazy notion that to be pro-ERA is to be anti-Catholic." 
"Students tend to be apoliticaL They aren't involved in abstract issues,'' he added. 

In fact, she added that it is "crazy that an amendment is needed at all. This whole country is based on human rights as stated in the Bill of Rights. It is sad that women and blacks were not considered human by our country's fathers." 
Deanna Sokolowski, assistant pro­fessor of English, is one of the faculty members who has become interested and involved in women's rights. She, too, said she feels it is extremely important to talk about women and their rights in courses and lectures. 
Observer Insight 
"I  wish  that  ther.e  was  more  
discussion  of  national  iSSt~eS  on  
campus.  Students  should  keep  

themselves better informed, "Dug­gan said. He hailed the women's series as a very positive step in this direction, since it was student­sponsored and planned. 
Dean of Student Affairs Kathleen Rice agreed, saying she would like to see people come on campus to talk about the ERA. which she called "a most misunderstood piece of legislation." 
"When people think of the ERA. they think of women in war, breakdown of the family unit. and the radical flinge of the feminist movement. But it is really just the granting of equal rights to wom­en." Rice said. 

"The ERA is an emotional issue, not an intellectual one. You encounter very extreme counter­argumeJ;Jts such as women being drafted and ttten and .women using the same restrooms. But these are ridiculous," Sokolowski explained. 
"People feel threatened by the idea of equal constitutional rights because that is hitting right at the core of male-fem~de relationships and parent-child • elationships. But the ERA is necessary because there is a subtle, pervasive prejudice against women which is hard to confront. A law would make it easier," she continued. 
Sokolowski sees the solution in education. "Unless these things arc pointed out, people are not aware. And once they arc aware. 
there are generally two reactions. Either they open their eyes or they dig deeper into their anti-ERA attitudes," she concluded. 
The exact wording of the ERA, which if passed, will become the 27th amendment to the United States Constitution, is "equality of rights under the Jaw shall not be denied or abridged by the United States or by any State on account of 
sex." 
Its basic principle is that if a Jaw restricts women's rights, that law is no longer valid. 
Four more states are needed to ratify the amendment. which would go into effect two years after ratification. This delay would give states time to determine which laws need to be amended or repealed and to do so. 
Some areas in which laws would probably need to be amended include sports in schools, scholar­ships, and government and indus­trial use of generic titles. 
Denise Hogan, a senior who has become interested in the amend­ment, summarized the pro-ERA argument by saying, "I think it's a shame that such a piece of legiti­mate legislation should be smeared and maliciously maligned by being blended with irrelevant issues such as unisex bathrooms and abortion on demand. 
ERA merely provides women with the rights that have always been available to Caucasian males," she concluded. 

Student Union Year-end Classified Ads 
FOR SALE 
Audio Ldb X speakers. 12 1nch 3 way handle 70 watts $270/pr. B1c 940. Shure M91ed. Walnuf Base $100 call M1ke 6842. 
FOR Sale: Couch with cover -excellent condition -summer storage available -reasonable price -call Tom 1883 
For Sale:8 x 12 orange rug i:Oord1natmg daybed bedspread. curtains. floor pillowGovt. and Engl Lit Books. Call Kathy6887 
End Table for Sale. Drawers for storage included. Call Kevm 8595. $5 00 
For Sale: 2 bedspreads with curta1ns. stereo cabmef -· best offer call 1272 or come Ia 209 B P 

Bar For Sale:· 6feet L-Shaped bar with place for refrig .. six cabinets. and a mixing counter. Best offer, call 1158. 
For sale: Couch-chair; casette taperecorder. twenty cassettes (15 and 30 min.); football Paul 1537 (401 Cav.) 
Paneled Bar. green rug -$5. green hassock-$1, 2quilts-$5 each. curtains. Call 6751. 
Kinda Kinky' Our Medievil Room for Sale. Drop by and see it! Rm 314 LeMans. Phone 4430. 
Patty, Jen and Pandy 
For Sale: Fender Stratocaster guitar.White with Maple Neck. Good condition. $250.00 233-4487 After 5. 
Refrigerator for sale: Excellent condition. only 9 mos. old $70 call John at 3663. 

2 green comfortable cha1rs and 1 9x12 be1ge rugcall Joan4·t·S411 
FREE to good home: I mother. Call 
Kathy 7668 She cooks. cleans. and compla1ns' 

WELCOME 
TO THE REAL 
WORLD 
For Sale: ~ender Telecaster. mmt condition. w1th hard shell case. Besl otter. w1ll sacrifice. Call Kevin at 3388 
For Sale: one couch. Excellent shape.Reasonable price Must gel rid off. Call 3482. 

Blue shag rug. 9 x 12 excellent condition. $20 call Frank al 1376 
10-speed bike with chain and lock, real bargain price. call Martin 287·8754. 
PERSONALS 
Joan. 

You're perfect in everything you say and do. Have a perfect summer. and remember that I'll Always love you. 
See you In September, Jeff 
Dear Pseudo-belligerent curly head. Thanks for making me so happy. 

Remember goodbye doesn't mean  for­ 
ever'  
Ilove you  

Your pseudo-looney Irish girl 

Carrie: Stop by Fremont, but leave the kids. Have a good summer. Bracha latera. Love. John 
To ducks and other numnuts: 
There are noI ties on my ass1 Iwill not fly 70 missions, no more french. I have finally beat the catch --catch 22. 
Luke 
Pete: Semor Bar and Julio's Pizza won't be the same w1th&ul you' Belh and Sue 
Joe: 
(Ex·ND Alhlete. asp1r1ng Public Ad­rnlnlsfralor) too baCtl our lunch dales have to end ·-good Luck 1 
love. Beth and Sue 
Mike To lhe Almost married accountant. Best wishes to'you and Linda! Beth and Sue 
Future Foomies Donna. K;Jthy. and Julie--
Celebrale  Wle  summer ·· It'll be  a  
yummy·dooi year 1  
Leslie  

roIhe Moirissey men of fourth and fifth floors ! Its beqn a genuine pleasure knowing 
you'  I  
·  Keep smiling.  
\Joyce R.  

To Farley's Angels of 127 --1 lhe CltJtchplale k1d. Peppermint: Patty. and our Budding Bureaucrat. 
I 
! : 
Thanks for agreal year .i I Love. 
! BJS 
' 
WANTED 
N~ed ride to Texas May 16. 288-2613. 
Need Rider to Oklahoma City or Tulsa who can drive standard transmissi n. Leave May 15.16? Brian 1641. 
Married couple looking for apartment to rent for summer. 232-4652 After 5. John. 
The Phila. Club of I Notre Dame an­nounces its spring baggage truck. It ~ill load Sunday, May 14 and unload Tu s­day, May 16. Call Mike Moran (2 2­3477) (preferably) or Bruce MorriSbn (288-0Ml2) (not as good) for reservations. 
--~--------------­
mr. fo$ter. 
Bring evelyn and P-1-N-K-Y in out of the cornstarch. watch me put this match out on this chinchilla. 
yours in pedal depression. 
n. m. a. doll 
beth klein, ich leibe dich. jim zorn 

~----------------------------~-~ 
_T=-ue_s_da-"y...!....,..;.,;.M.=a:..:..v-=2~,...:..:19:..:..7~s______th~eiiL.Jo~biiE.!II!s~e~rv..._e:!IU..r_ __!7l
.. 

Irish relay team takes second at Drake Relays 
by Frank LaGrotta first leg with a time of 1:51.3 before the distance squad came in ninth. 14:27.5 (set at the Alabama Invita­Sports Writer handing the baton to Burger.who Overall, Piiane was pleased with his .team's performance in Des tiona! this year( with an out­
did his half-mile in 1:51.6. Allmen­

Moines. standing time of 14:24.5. 
Notre Dame's 2-mile relay team dinger ran the third stanza and was 
While the runners we:re at the "pat really ran his butt off,"
proved that their first-place finish clocked at l:S0.9 and Miranda 1 
Drakes, the remainder of lthe squad emphasized an obviously pleased 
. Sophomore George Lang also got mto the record-breaking act with a 151-foot throw in the hammer event. Lang's toss erased Charles 
Bachman's record of 145-feet three 

in the Kansas Relays was no fluke anchored the team with a sterling 
Piane. "He and Marc Novak, who and one-half inches set 64 years as they finished a strong second in time of 1:48.8. traveled to Muncie, Indiana for the finished third in the race with a Iago in 1914. Arnie Gough's 14.3 the prestigious Drake Relays last "It was a great race," commen­Ball State Relays. Their results 14:39.0 really did well., / clocking in the 120-yard highFriday. The Irish foursome of ted head coach Joe Piane. "We were, according to Pia.m~. "really Pi hurdles was good enough for
excellent. •' . ~ne also cited George Matteo's
Chuch Aragon, Peter Burger, Bill ran really well, but Iowa State just second place. 
A high point for the ltish was Pat : wtnntng pole vault of 15' 6" as
Allmendinger and Jay Miranda had a brilliant race." The Irish will compete at North-
broke the record they set at the Sullivan's record-breaking win in exceptional. Fellow vautlter Perry I
Notre Dame also entered their Stow took fourth in the pole vault western University today before 
Kansas meet with a 7:22.5 finish -4-mile relay team and the distance the 5000-meter rae~. The freshman with the same h · ht "S II' taking some time off to prepare for 
\

only two seconds off Iowa State's medley squad in the two-day Drake from St. Paul, Mmne~sota broke had "ewer etg • u tvan 'the ICAAAA meet in Philadelphia.
l' misses," Piane ex-winning time of 7:20.8. affair. The four-milers finished teammate Steve Welch's record of j plained. 

/[continued on page 6]

Individually, Aragon finished the eleventh with a time of 16:56 and 
apartments
cjgse 
still
campus 
available 

special summer rates!! 
2 BEDROOMS -COMPLETELY FURNISHED 
Agen a will include the Chapter's; new 
complete kitchen & dining room 
studie f faculty compensation andlfringe benefits; efforts to secure eg~lity of treatment r part-time teache~nd \lvomen 
NOW ACCEPTING APPLICANTS
at Notre [)a~; current aca4,emk freedom and tenure issu)s · and the hapt,er's plans 
for the 1978 -1979 SCHOOL YEAR. 
for 1978-79. 
call cand at 233 -6363 or 234 -6647 
NOTICES '75 Audi Foxy-Type 2S, 2-door, 19,151 I WANT TO GO HOME! Miles. Bids Accepted. N.D. Credit Union 
-283-6262 -Millicent. Martha, 
Happy 19th! Don't worry about not being Need nde to Albuquerque after grad· 1977 Mobile Home [Monarch] 70 x 14, 3 legal · it never stopped you before! uat10n. Will share driving and expenses. LOST: Small hammered gold ring of OVERSEAS JOBS· Summer/year-round. bedroom, 2 baths, Village Green Park. Love, Call Debbie at 4·1-4898. great personal value. If found please call Europe, S. America, Australia. Asia, etc. Skirted, $7,999.00. Call Millie. N.d. The Rat Pack 
Maritza at 1915. All fields. $500·$1200 monthly. expenses Credit Union -283-6262. Will do typing Neat. accurate. Call paid. sightseeing. Free information · Pres. 287·5162 FOUND: One pair of contacs in Faculty Write: BHP Co., Box 4490, Dept. 14, Refriderator for Sale. 6 month old Thanks for stopping by. Drop in any time. 
Parking Lot. Call 3564. Berkeley, CA 94704. corr'lact. Price negotiable. Please call Sac'y D1ssertat1ons. manuscripts. etc .. typed. Mini 6723. 
(lcassift?cl Acls 

IBM Selectirc II Linda's Letters. LOST: A pair of bllue-grey prescription Looking for summer employment? Doc To All Observer People: You wanna have 287-4971. sunglasses. 7957. Pierces Saloon is hiring food servers, For Sale ~ Rewigerator · 4 cubic feet. fun? You wanna have drinks? You bartenders. and cocktail waitresses. Excellent Condition. Call 1249. wanna eat munchies? You wanila meet Truck your goodies home to Rochester, LOST: Two Rings in LaFortune powder Must be able to train immediately. Apply other Observer people? Then come to the NY. Call Frank. 232-345,5. rocm. SMC Class Ring (in. M M.W. in person 2·6pm at 120 N. Main St. For Sale: New Yorker 3·speed bicycle. end o'the year Observer party, Friday, 
B.S.N .. '78( and initial ring. Call Mary Mishawaka. Good Condtition. Must sell. Call Jack at May 5 at the K of C. 9pm to ? NEED QUALITY TYPING? Executary. 
(4·1·4764) or Jim (8287) Reward$. 6706. Inc. Professional Typing Service IBM Female roomate prefer grad student Returning Observer typists: Please 
Correcting Selectncs. &.85 per page FOUND Two keys with #118 in front of summer or summer & next school year. Msed golf balls like new $20 per 100 and indicate to me by the end of the weak, the min1mum. Call 232·0898 "When you Lewis Hall. Call Observer. Call Pam 2297 or 288~746,8. other prices call 272·0783. day[s] you want to type next year. Call want the Best'· Resumes: $3.00 per me or leave a note In my box. 
page. FOUND: One Plymouth car key on a Female executive would like to rent Mardi 
black key chain with a Sagittarius furnished house or large apartment, 3 or PERSONALS MORRISSEY LOAN FUND: Friday, May medallion. 4bedrooms. Children visit on weekends. HAIRCUTS* TRIMS* STYLES* CHEAP! 5 is the final day to pay your loan. All Call Ann Brunston. 23B·4101. Call Betsy, SMC 4530.
Congrats Pam !

loans not paid will be turned over to One lined Bluedenim jacket with no Peace and happiness,
Student Accounts. Penalty will be Identification Looking for 3 female roomates for the There once was a green MG B, who
Love,

charged. NO EXCEPTIONS! summer at Campus View Apts. Call needed a new owner you see, so buy a
LT

One navy blue hooded sweatshirt. Bertie 277·2798. new toy. It will bring you extreme joy. Mother's Day is May 1jl. Give the one (And so will the money for me) Excellent
Connie DePyper ·you're a life-saver. I'll 
you love apuppy or kitten. Call 272-2520. One navy blue winclbreaker. WANTED: Need ride home to Fr. Ldle. cond. Call 4-1~4981.
explain later. Smile.

Call 4+4381. FOR RENT One Timex watch on a black leather SENIORS! Alumni-Senior Picnic is
From what I hear, Chicago's one of the
watchband. coming ·meet with grads from '28 to '78
best places to live...so what do you think 
at Stepan on Saturday from 11 AM to Staying for the summer? Rent a house All items lound at the An Tostal FOR SALE SF? 1:30PM. Beer and brats provided by your and live off campus. Lower summer rent. Alumni Association· BE THERE'
Volleyball Tournament courts by the close to campus. Call 8730 or 8742 for 
Towers last week. To claim. call Goose, more details. Ted(3209). Full color Cotton Bowl and USC football; Thanks for the lift last Friday. Hows Bill Artist to help illustrate book of poems to 
UCLA* Kentucky. and Maryland basket~ Love, be published this year. Call John 4·5·6 BDR houses near Portage & LOST: A Ko1Jak Tele·instamatic camera ball pictures for sale. Sports Illustrated Your Frosh Monday or Wednesday 6·10 PM. Angela. Rent adjusted to number of with the initials MVS on the back at the material at a low price. Call Doug at 8982 234·8364. 
students. These are well-maintained Carnival Friday Night. Call Mary at or stop by 318 Zahm. Mom Mack: I'M GLAD YOU'RE HERE. #2152 CAROL SMC-ND '79 PICNIC -SMC CLUB­
houses. Call 234·6688. 
Stereo equipment major brand discounts HOUSE 4-9 MAY 3rd. 
LOST: Keys on a leather ring between on fully guaranteed. factory sealed Some mothers are nice. and then there's
LOST & FOUND
• rugby field and mud pits. Call 5729. audio-video eqpt. Elliot Enterprises Park you ... You're Great!! Need Riden to Lexington or Louisville Court. Buchanan. Mich. 49107. Call Thursday Morning. Peggy -4--4810.
Love,Found: Glass case. Call at the Observer 

LOST: Takumar camera lens (telephoto· Niles toll free 683·0121. MAC
office to identify. 
135 mm) witll case and lens protector. Attention Seniors' Alumni from all over Call 277-4585. For Sale: Two twin bedspreads~ orange, STUDENT CHECKS cashed with the US are coming to meet you. Alumni
LOST: Vivitar instamatic with priceless 
brown, beige and white pattern~ quilted~ SMC/ND I.D. at Georgetown Pharmacy, Senior Picnic 1978 at Stepan on Saturday
film at Senior Formal. REWARD' Karen 
FOUND: In Student parking lot. Pair of excellent condition I $32 for the pair. Call Georgetown Shopping Canter or Mar 11 AM to 1:30PM. Start senior week6782. 
contact lenses in lens case. Call 3564. 4+4001. Main Pharmacy. 426 N. Mich. early! 
Lost: Blue NO Jacket at Nickie's. 
LOST: Gold wire frame glasses in vicinity For Sale: One compact refrigarator in All those Interested lntyplng for the Miss Sprite from 438:
Reward. Name in Jacket. 
of SMC Clubhouse Sat. Night. Name on good condition. Call SMC · 4563. Observer next year call mardi at 4-1--4677. Thanks for the mixed up but fun time inside of Bow. Call 1770. Paid POSITION. Saturday night. But I'd like to get toLOST: One blue fiberglass raquetball 
1977 Nova · 4 Door.· Air, PS, PB, AT. know you better as a friend.
raquet with leather grip. REWARD. Call 
FOUND: Kite in entrance of O'Shag. V-8, AM Radio with speakers, 6,000 JR: TK from IU1605 if found. 
What flavor was it? 5:00p.m. 
Call 6906 to identify. miles. If interested call: 272-3572 after 
M

FOUND: One Plymouth car key on black key chain with a Sagittarius medallion, a1 Need a graduation gift for a friend?
Great furniture buy$! Couch, Desk,
the An Tostal volleyball courts. Call Ted FREE puppies and kittens -take your
Chairs, Tables. Call 281!·5182. 

(3209) pick! Call 272-2520 after 3 PM. 
Need ride to Albuquerque after grad­'73 Vega-Chev. 2-door, Bids Accepted.. LOST: Antique white shawl at the uation. Will :share driving and expenses. N.D. Credit Union-2113-6262-Millicent. Jim Fritsch: ND-SMC Senior Form:~l in Chicago. Call Debbie ill 4-1·4898. You made Bookstore B·ball worth going 
Rllward. 4-1-4628. to.
·n Firabird Espirit 3 SJJeed -AM-FM. 
Summer Church Camp Positions. Coun· Btrack stereo $3,999.99. N.D. Credit S.W.I. LOST: First basemen's baseball glove selors for Boy's Cabins. WSI 's with Union-2113-6262-Millicent. by Senior Bar. Ask for Andy. Phone current certification. Some college MARY PRICE HAS LOADS OF WORK 
8891. background preferred. Good salary. '75 Ford Elite-2-door, ureen AM-Radio, TO DO. IF YOU CAN HELP HER OUT Send resume to 333 West Colfax, South A/C. 12,273 Miles. $3,500.110. N.D. AT ALL. .. GIVE HER A CALL!!I Bend. Attn: Beem. Credit Union -2113-6262 -Millicent. 
Hey O.K. Cashiola 


-~ ----~~-----------------­
the observer Tuesday, Mav 2, 1978 
Irish baseball team nips Xavier, 5-4 
by Craig Chvai Sports Writer 
It took Notre Dame's baseball squad four games to do it. but the Irish finally found the happy med­ium between pitching and hitting to post another game in the win column. After running the gamut between all pitching and no hitting. and no pitching and plenty of hitting, and a healthy dose of slapstick fielding adventures thrown in for good measure, Notre Dame nipped Xavier 5-4 in the second game of a doubleheader. 
A pair of freshmen. Mike Dcasey and Boh Bartlett, took care of the pitching. while another rookie, catcher Jim Montagano, teamed with several veterans-Rick Pullano D\IVC DcFacci, and Bill Starr -to provide the hitting punch. The victory, Notre Dame·~ tenth of the scaso~ to go along with 18 losses and a tic, snappt·d a four game slide for Head Coach Tom Kelly's crew. 
Bartlett. who earned the start with an impressive outing in a losing cause against Valparaiso last week, was touched for a pair of runs in each of the first and third innings, prompting Kelly to call on Deasey. The hard-throwing righthander clo­sed the door on Xavier for the rest of the way. scattering two hits. A diving grab by Greg Rodcms in right field after two men reached on errors in the last of the sixth preserved the one-run lead. 
Notre Dame struck for three runs in the opening frame to assume a lead it never relinquished. Pulla­no. snapping out of a skid that saw his average drop nearly one hund­red points to .389. singled to lead off the game. Senior outfielder DcFacci, seeing his ·first action since being rested after a slow start, doubled to chase Pullano home. One out later. Montagano ripped a two-bagger to tally DcFac­
ci. Montagano moved to third on an error and scored on a sacrifice fly by Starr. 
Voellinger's triple sandwiched be­tween singles by Montagano and 
Starr produced Notre Dame's fourth and fifth runs of the contest, leaving it up to Deasey to protect the lead and even his record at 2-2. The Irish began their weekend road trip Saturday against Cincin­nati, dropping a pair to the Bobcats. Joe Karpowicz. who was ranked second nationally in earned run average. was roughed up for six runs in two and two-thirds innings, ballooning his ERA to a still-enviable 2.03. The 8-7 verdict dropped Karpowicz' record to 2-2. 
In a rare display of two-out hitting. the Irish strung together five straight safties to produce three runo; in the top of the second, and take a short-lived 3-1 lead. Vocllinger starte-d the rally with a triple, which preceded singles by Dave Smith, Bob Bader. DeFacci and Pullano. 
The Bobcats battled back with a pair of runs in their half of the frame to tic. and then chased Karpowicz in the third by adding three more runs. Pete Zabrowski came in to put out the fire. but not before Cincinnati built its lead to 6-4. The fourth Notre Dame run was a result of a solo home run by Mark Simendinger in the third. 

In game two, the Irish modeled new fielder's gloves -manufactur­ed by U.S. Steel. Notre Dame committed seven-count'em, seven errors, much to the horror of Mike Bobinski, to hand the game to the Bobcats, 9-6. Bobinski could do little but watch as his record slipped to 2-5 thanks to seven unearned runs. 
Notre Dame outhit Cincinnati 10-7. but stranded nine runners. Pullano and DeFacci sparked the attack with a pair of hits apiece, with DeFacci notching a pair of RBI's. 
After the home team jumped out to a 4-0 lead after three innings. the Irish exploded for six runs in the fourth. making the most of five hits. Bader. Pullano. and DcFacci each singled with two out to cap the rally. But two runs without the hcnelit of a hit in the fifth. and 
Tony Pace·----:-:-.-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:·:·:-:·:·:-:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:::::·:-:·:·:·:·:·:::::::::::·:·:·:::-:-:-:-:·:·:::·:::::::·:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::·::::::::::::::::::::::::::··:::::::::::.;::::::::.;:;:::::::::::: 
N.F.L. Draft 

:-:-:-:-:-::::::::;.;:;.;.;:::::::::;.;:;:;:;.;::::·:·:·:·:-:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::.:::::::::::::::::.;::::::::::::::::::.;::::.:-:::::::::::::::::.;::::::::.:::::::::::::::::::.:-:-:-:-:-:-:-::;.;:;.;.::l::::.::;.;:::::::::::::;.;::::-:::::: Pace ' s p·1cks 
The National Foothall League began their annual player draft at 10 am today. This draft is, of course, the way in which the NFL distributes the graduating college talent among its 28 members. While the overall quality of the players available in this draft has been described as less than normal. there are many fine individuai athletes available. 
This year should break the long drought of Notre Dame football talent in the draft. Two season'> ago Steve Niehaus was chosen second in the overall draft by the Seattle Seahawks. Last season no Notre Dame players were selected. The Fighting Irish should be very visible this year, however. a' prnhahly four and possible five players from the National Champion~hip team will be chosen in the first round alone. 
llerc is a runclown of possible selections in todav's first round: Houston Oilers -The Oilers have taken much of the fun out of the draft h\" already indicating that Earl Campbell is their man. In fact. the Oilers and the former Texas fullhat·k have already come to contract terms. The Oilers arc lighting for equal billing with the Cowboys in Texas and signing Campbell is a step in the right direction. 
Kansas CiiJ Chiefs -Lamar Hunt's team has slumped badlv since thev heat the Vikings in Super Bowl IV. Right now their most pressing need i:o; a big dcft•nsive lineman. Because they arc going for size the Chiefs select 6-7 Art Still of Kentucky. 
New Orleans Saints -New Coach Dick Nolan needs a crowd-plcascr and point-producn to keep the fans entertained while he slowlv rebuilds this club. His choice is Wcs Chandler the Florida wide receiver.-Chandler has been called the best athlete in the draft bv some scouts. 
New York Jets-The Jets need a fast running hack. The man they want is Oklahoma State's Terry Miller. Miller may be a hit small by professional football's \landards at 5-11. I 90 pounds. hut he can run the forty in 4.45 ...cconds and he has proved his durability during his play in the Big Eight during the past few scao;ons. 
Buffalo Bills · New coach Chuch Knox had a great defense when he was with the Ham\ and the fir'>t thing he will most likely do when he joins the Bills is build the \lop troops. The cornerstone of his defensive unit will he Notre Dame·, Ross Browner. 
Breen Ba) Pat·kcrs-The Pat·kcr quarterbacks have taken a beating in the last fe" sca<,on' and they arc certainly crying for offensive line help. To amend t1i' situation, the Packers head coach and general manager Bart Starr tab' Ohio State offensive lineman Chris Ward. Ward played tackle in n•llegc but he may move to guard in the pro ranks. 
San Frandst·o 49ers -The 49crs now have O.J. Simpson in their backfield ...o rhc\ mu\t find \Onll' blockers for him. They choose Gordon King. an .,ffl-n,·i\c t l·kle from nearby Stanford. King is rated as the best offensive tal·kle in thi' ~-ear·, graduating class. Clndnnati Bengals -last year the Bengals used one of their good picks to takv Mike Cobb of Michigan State. He did not pan out at tight end. so the Bengal\ dip hack into the grab bag this year for another tight end. Notre Dame·, Ken MacAfec. Had Tampa Bay retained their pick. MacAfce may ha\c been the lirst player drafted. With Cincinnati. MacAfcc will be on a tl·am that can be a contender. Seattle-The Scahawks arc the better of the two year old expansion teams and the~· can afford to spend their top pick this year on something fri\l>lnus. like a wide receiver. Their man is Stanford's James Lofton. l.ofton i'> 6-J. IllS and he has been compared to Isaac Curtis by Stanford coal·h Bill Walsh. Walsh coached Curtis when he was in Cincinnati. New York Giants -Like their rivals, the Jets. the Giants need a fast 
running hack. someone who will put life into their sputtering offense. To till thi., need they choose Oklahoma's Elvis Peacock. Peacock has good o;in· at 6-1. 218 pounds and he can run with the best with his 4.5 speed. Detroit Lions-The lion quarterbacks arc aging and it may be a good idea to draft a good one now who can be cased into the position. The man they choose is Grambling's Doug Williams. At 6-3, 215 pounds. he is big enough to ahsorh the punishment which usually dealt out to signal callers and he has an arm as strong as any in the league. His only drawback is the competition he has faced, but he threw against current Lion James Hunter everyday in practice at Grambling a few seasons back, so the Lions have good information on him. Cleveland Browns-The Browns arc in the same position as the Lions. So they pick Pittsburgh's Matt Cavanaugh. Cavanaugh is from Youngstown. Ohi6, so he should feel right at home playing in Municipal Stadium. Atlanta t'aJcons -The Falcons had the best defense in the NF• 'ast year hut they had little or no offense. To remedy that situation, ey grab Alamba's Ozzic Newsome. Newsome is yet another of this year '>bumper 
crop of wide receivers. He is 6-2. 21 S pounds and runs a 4.6 fort\". He 
three more in the sixth put the Bobcats on top to stay. 
Senior left "!lander Don Wolfe swal­lowed the bitterest pill of the weekend, however, when he was struck with a 1-0 loss in the opening game of the Xavier twin-bill. Wolfe, who lost his fourth straight decision, scattered four hits, and surrendered a lone unearned run in the third. The Irish, however, managed only two singles, one each by Pullano and Smith. Only one Notre Dame runner, Bader, reached third base. The senior ccntcrfielder was stranded when DcFacci and Simendingcr both filed to center field to end the sixth inning. 
Next for the Irish is a Wednesday date with Michigan. The Wolver­ines. led by ccnterficlder Rick Leach. will tangle with the Irish in a doubleheader starting at I:00 p.m. at Jake Kline Field. 

. inda'>t .,nimmag(: twfut(' the 

played both tight end and split end for Bear Br~·ant·., Crimson Tide: so he· •·. Annual Bluc-G<}Jd g:uw,: this 
is not afraid to block and mix i't up going across the middle. San Diego Chargers-The Charger' have a good offensive club. the\· need hdp on defense especially al middle linebacker. So they pick Cia~· 
M.1tthews of USC. He is the hco;t nf what slwuld be called an ordinar\" crop of linebacker.... · St. l,ouis Cardinals -Don Con·l'll'' complaining about po<>r draft pick-. 
ma\· shake up the Cardinal bra..,., enough <,o that they tinalh· pil·k defensive pla\'l'rs. To till one of their nm!erbach spots the~· take Keith Simp,on of Memphis State. 
Cindnnati .Benga.ls · The Bcngals usc .their '>l'cond pick in the opening round to tab l.l'on White of Colorado. White is o-2. 275 pourHh and he ha.., plan·d holh center and guard for the Buffaloes. Tampa Ba~ But•caneers ·The Bucs swapped '>pot... \\ith the Oiler'> and they U'>l' their pick to get a lineman Ill block for Hick\" Bl'll and Ill'\\ h·-acquircd fullback-Don Hardeman. Their man i~ Michigan·.., Mike Kcnn. At 6-6 and 2-tO pound-... Kcnn nw1· nL'c'd lo add some weight before he i'> trul_\· cffccti\"l' bur the scout\ '>l'L'm to think he '>lwuld den·lop. New England Patriots -The· Patriot... had prohlelll'> '' ith lcl'ln Gra~-and John Hannah Ja,t autu111n. To protect again~t am recurrence of thi.., problem. the Pats '>l'lect J;tml''> Tador of Mis~ouri. The h-:'>. 26:'> pound la\lor had a fine junior hut he .,Jumped in hi' ..,L·nior \car. The Par... arc betting that he \\·ill regain his old form. SL Louis Cardinals-· With the pick the_\ acquired from the Hcd.,kin ... the Can!.. take Mtkc Wood'>. a linebacker from the Unin·r.,it\ of Cincinnati. The h-2. 225 pou:1dcr ..twuld '>Oin· '>Omc of the problem.., the Redbird' ha\T been ha\ ing \\ith their outside hackl·r.... Cle\dand Browns-The Brown' tl'>e the Bear'· pick (obtained in the Mike Phipps trade) to tab Rand\· Hollow a.\· of Pitt. Holhm a1· i'> the JW'><;rushcr the Brmnl'> ~1ecd on .their defensive line. lh· mu<,t add \\Tight to his 225-pound frame to he effective. Minnesota Vikings-The Vikings secondarY is getting old and rhc_\-1\ ould do \\l'll to lind ~ome replacements. They pick the third Notre Dame pla\"Cr to go on the lirst round. rornerhack luther Bradle~·. Bradle~··., -.couting n_·,·it'\\'> arc mixed hut the Vikings think he will he a good one. Pittsburgh Steelers · The Stcelers suffered man\" injuries in their defl'n'>i\·e line la'>t '>ea~on and their once formidable Steel Curtain is gelling old. for insurance the\" grab the other Irish bookend. Willie Fry. Some <,couh arc of the opinion that Fry will he a better pro than Browner. Los Angeles Rams -The Rams are a team that seems to ha\'l' everything 
SalllfdiH'. 'flw golden hdmet., ,,.,...,w-..<·-,t:•d UIHkr the 11:1rmsun nnd trt'f'-' st.''l.'ral bright spot<, for Irio;It~. hut till' phiy i.\lh.·for the _ part. hKklu'>t~·r. 
(:' nflcli'>L' Mikv CuurLT \\'!Is :·' _·-·4c· as Itt? kd the .No. 2 .'; ' ;m II pl;1~ • }5 yard
i: : ·_-_ driH.' :lgain-.t the NP. I 

:i_·_: :· -...._-· .m. J{(.iti Mcrrh·i~·Whl'f · · th1.' fnudHhw;·u on a six \'ani Ctllll"\.'.' finished tlw day Hti1r 
v;1nl'>. _ 
>U''>.I-~"'>Umln~ fnnh with <1 bdlfian1 • \1':1'-.,ophimllit'l'·ltl-h(' a ,plit end. had flllii!t,•c.•(~-l:dl;'" t<n· -11 ntrd<,. Otw of 
•~e<~l<T•~·,_ \q~* ·a .;l)~•·tnt~ttlar 
;•ri-ttk•Ch:uul<« ~rah of a t ipp~·~· P"" · ltl v pu tlw ground. ,,,,,,,,.,,.,,.,__,,,,.,.,.., ft•rgu-.nn _was thi.F l~·ading htr ihif ft'i).h with 54 
_____ _ . 

hut they ha\T yet to win it all. Gc1>rge Allen knows the value of the kicking ') , _-,_ .. g~tme so he follow-.((](' lead of AI Davis from a few seasons hack and taps !/if,_I!'·::···M.-i¥
.•-:t_I-~Y'~iljkl' 

Arkansas· Steve little. little can handle both the punting and the ,•,:. ,· ·· '"'"'h.<lnu· placekicking chores "" he should end the Rams merrv-go-round at those two position'>. . _.______ ..·__ . San f"randsco 49ers -With the pick obtained from Miami in the Delvin '· · , .•. '· · 
Williams trade. the 49crs pick Stanford quartcrhat·k Guy Benjamin. The :.. , ' • ·. ?~~di;&~:6tl~ ~~:ti~~ Stanford qh on the 44cr roster has fallen from favor with general manager _:' :'_:, _. lo'<l1>>~"'" :i 
Joe Thoma!>. so Benjamin will be groomed quickly for the signal-caller '_: • · post. 
Baltimore Colts-Rosscvelt leaks had fumhlitis late last season and he is nowhere ncar the hack he once was at Texas. So the Colts nab Johnny Davis of Alabama to till the fullback slot. Davis is similar to Campbell in manay ways but he does have Campbell's breakaway quickness. . Green BaJ Packers -This pick comes via the Mike McCoy trade with Oakland. The Pack •:ould also usc some help in the secondary so they choose Ron Johnson of Eastern Michigan. Johnson is a hard-hitting 
ill!¢tiC¢iilfljJi)j~J1~tthe@ 

cornerback who ahs 4.5 speed. l!lffutih~l'!~«tvcries Denver Broncos-The Bronco defense is pretty well set but they could usc another receiver. This is just the year to need a receiver and they draft •:••••·;~·H<'>ntrlt Arizona State's John Jefferson. Jefferson is another in the long line of ·-.--.­Sun Devil wide receivers who have great speed and can come up with the_"'•::.·o·,ro1vccl. tough catch. ·;:.:-~ormcctcd. Dallas Cowboys -The Cowboys arc always tough to nail down because ::·~-•'1~-m{Jt they pick the best athlete. This year that may be Todd Christenson of .N•._Q(l~l*a BYU. Although he played fullback in college he could play tight end or ._· __ .· _. reJJ{a•cing even offensive guard in the pros. .•·, . _. 
Other players could be tapped in the first round arc: Dennis Johnson of ,'/',;_:@_'~·-!t~··ai Missippi. Larry Collins of Texas A&l. Memphis State's Keith Butler. · Michigan's Walt Dowing and Notre Dame's Ernie hughes. :___,_____ 
Other Domers who should be drafted are Ted Burgmeier. Steve ··:I:•D·re:··vibre McDaniels. Dave Reeve (all in the middle rounds) and possibly Doug Becker and Terry Eurick in the later rounds. 'Jl!$~1~~!\ltmi•JiJ&M•~::::;;.itii!i;i'JWWt1iit:•'·•···-··, 





