
l 
I 
Energy cutbacks 
Drinking in Michigan? lifted at SMC Legal age to change to 19 
by Cathy Murray by Jim Blaha parts is the ease of accessibility." Rep. Melvin DeStigter and others 
Now that Indiana and Michigan The drinking age in Michigan who want the legal drinking age Electric has removed mandatory will change from 18 to 19 on Dec. 3, returned to 21 say alcohol will not energy cutbacks for their custo­1978. The State Senate. on votes of be removed from high schools if 19 mers, Saint Mary's College can 28-3 and 29-3..approved minor year olds are still able to buy liquor begin the "gradual" restoration of ijDuse amendments to bills that for their younger friends. normalcy on campus, according to change the drinking age. The bills "The legislature didn't give the the college energy controller, Jason must still be signed by Gov. people of Michigan what they Lindower. During the recent William Millikan. but he has said really wanted." said DeStigter. energy cri,is, Saint Mary's had he will sign the bills. ''And if the legislature won't do the been orerating on 50-55o/o of their Under the legislation. teenagers job, we'll have to go to the people. power. who haven': turned 18 by Dec. 3 We are determined to make the 
Last Thursday, Lindower will have to wait until they are 19 to petition drive succeed because ordered that the Angela Athletic legally take a drink. Teens who are we're convinced that 21 is what the Center be returned to regular 18 when the laws take effect w\ !1 be people want." hours, parking lot lights be turned able to continue drinking. A poll conducted by the Michi­back on for the entire night and The legislation was sponsored by gan Council on Alcohol Problems clothes dryers and ovens be put Sen. James DeSana. D-Wyandotte. showed that the vast majority of back into use. However, not and a petition drive to raise the age school administrators want the everything on L·arr pus has been to 21 is underway. If enough legal age returned to 21. restored. The <om,mter center is signatures are obtained. the issue "Opponents to raising the drink­not in operation and light bulbs are will be on the November ballot. ing age say this is merely a still missing from the hallways in The petition has collected discipline problem which the Madcleva. 137.022 signatures thus far. This is schools ought to be able to 
Lindower said that he could not half the number needed to put the handle," said Allen B. Rice. peti­be certain that power usage would issue on the ballot. The legislation, tion drive coordinator and spokes­be back to normal even by the time as well as the petition. was man for the council. students leave in May. He also prompted by school administrators, "In our judgment. most Michi­reminded students that I & M who complain that students are gan high schools have tried hard to Electric coal s•:pplies are not back coming to school drunk and are deal with the problem. but their to thdr "before the strike" levels, supplying liquor to their underaged hands are tied. They have a limited and voluntary conservation is help­classmates. response in disciplinary measures ful. "Raising it to 21 will solve a lot at their disposal and to expel a 
Lindower expressed hope that of problems the schools have." student for anti-social drinking from this experience we can learn said Sen. Alvin DeGrow. R-Pigeon, behavior is almost out of the more about enregy conservation a supporter of the petition drive. question.'' and perhaps correct wastefulness "There are a lot of parts to the Persons under 19 who are caught
...Sundaythat had occured iP the past. problem ... but one of the biggest [Continued on page 5) 


server 
an independent student newspaper serving notre dame and st. mary's Vol. XII, No. 108 Monday, April 3, 1978 

Carter announces talks to end Rhodesian war 
lAGOS, Nigeria rAPI -President bases in neighboring countries for Nigeria with a state dinner la~t the front-line nations who surround constitution with special guaran­
Carter said yesterday the United political control of the breakawav night. He leaves today for Libena Rhodesia, and also the parties to tees for the white minority. 
States and Grea1 Britain are British colony. and a stopover for lunch with the internal settlement: Smith, The guerrillas backed Patriotic calling all sides in Rhodesia's Representatives of the five Presidant William Tolbert. The Muzorewa. Sithole and Chirau." Front. supported by Rhodesia's guerrilla war together with repre­neighboring "front-line" states Carters, daughter Amy and top The president referred to Bishop five neighboring frontline states, 
sentatives of the United Nations in also will be invited. Carter said. U.S. foreign policy advisers return Abel Muzorewa. the Rev. Nda­has rejected the deal as a sellout a new effort to bring peace and The president met with Obasanjo to Washingto later toay after seven baningi Sithole and tribal Chief and pledged to step up its five-year black majority rule to the strife-torn for more than an hour after the two days in 'latin American and West Jeremiah Chirau. who this month war against the administration in nation. leaders attended church at a bap­Africe. 
struck an accord with Smith pro­Salisbury, the Rhodesian capital.
The president made the tist mission founded here in 1853. At a brief meeting with re­viding for the country's first black "We will begin now to explore announcement at the conclusion of Both men are Baptists. porters. Carter said he and Oba­government by Dec. 31 under a talks with Nigerian chief of state Following the talks. the Ameri­S<<njo found no disagreement over Olusegun Obasanjo. Carter said can president and his wife toured a three major African issues -Rho­the meeting on Rhodesia will be new $325 million port facility on Tin desia; South-West Africa. or Nami­
held as soon as pos<;ible. Can Island, once a garbage dump bia. the South African controlled 
He said invitations to the new in Lagos harbor. The Carters territory where western powers are talks will go to white Rhodesian boarded an American freighter tied proposing a new formula for black Prime Minister Ian Smith. moder­up at the island and shook hands rule; and the Horn of Africa. where ate black kaders in Rhodesia a'nd with its captain and crew. Ethiopia, backed by Cubans and guerrilla chieftains fighting from Carter wound up his stay in Soviets, last month defeated its 
neighboring enemy. Somalia. "In these three major areas we
Friday... 
have reached a common purpose. and so far as I know there are no remaining differences between my­self and Gen. Obsanjo," the president said. 
During . his tour, Carter has attacked Communist military inter­vention in Africa. 
The president conceded that Gen. Obasanjo wants tougher ac­tion against South Afica's white minority government. "I think the general would be more inclined to take additional embargo action 
· . against South Africa than would 1 we," Carter said. 
South Africa is under a manda­tory U.N. arms embargo, but western powers have rejected calls from Third World and Communist countries for a total economic boycott. 
Announcing the new bid to solve 
the Rhodesian issue, the president said: "We now will move as Dr. john W. Perry, San Francisco, spoke yesterday on the quickly as possible to call together subject "Psychosis that heals and the Healing of Psychosis".the parties who are in dispute His presentation concluded the four day G.C. jung conference concerning Zimbabwe -those who ' held at the Center for Continuing Eduation. 
have been identified as theFront, 

2 the obHrver Monday, April 3, 1978 

rNewsBriefs_________ 
I======================~~~= World 
PW to continue fighling 
[AP] • Yasser Arafat, Palestine Liberation Oraganization leader, said yesterday PLO members sitll in Israeli-occupied Lebanon will continue to disrupt the cease-fire. "Our volunteers and our freedom fighter is working, and, two days ago, they declared there is resistance in this Israeli-occupied area, so thev are working 
now." Arafat said. 

National 
FBI questiom Carter 
[AP] -Sources said late Saturday that representatives of the FBI field office in Washington recently questioned President Carter about the ouster·of U.S. Attorney David W. Marston. But one source, refusing to be identified, hastened to add that no one in the administration was being investigated for wrongdoing in the case involving the Philadelphia prosecutor. The source said it would only be obvious to question all parties involved if "for instance, there were an obstruction of justice investi_l;(ation." 

Local 
lf/ouse designated landmnrk 
SOUTH BEND, Ind. [API • The Clement Studebaker House, now known as Tippecanoe Place, was designated a National Historic Landmark by Interior Secretary Cecil D. Andrus, Rep. John Brademas, D-lnd., announced this weekend. Brademas said such status is only awarded to buildings with some historic significance. Studebaker, the founder and first president of Studebaker Manufacturing Co., built the home in 1886. 
WE4THER 

T~ere is a 30 pe.rcent chance of rain today and with partly sunny sktes .forecast thts afternoon. Highs mid to upper 60s. Variable cl?udmess tonight and tomorrow. Lows upper 40s to around SO. Htghs upper 50s to low 60s. 
~On Campus Today_._ _. 
.... 

12:15 
pm lecture "alternatives to chalk and talk," by dr. emil hofman, spon. by educational media office. fresh­man learning resource center, brownson hall. 

12:15 
pm faculty forum "british industry & economy," by david norburn, london grad school of business studies. spon. by coli. of bus. administration. 121 hayes healy. 


12:30-1 pm film "correctional justice system," spon. by women's rights assoc. room 105, law school. 
7 pm "a forum on the charismatic movement" by fr. ed o'connor, spon. by howard and badin religious commission, howard hall. public invited. 
7-9 pm lawyer's night, spon. by pre-law society, room 101 law school. 

7 & 10 pm film series, "the confessions of amans," filmed in spain, engr. aud. 

7:20pm 

duplicate bridge, ladies of nd, faculty & staff duplicate bridge, university club. 
7:30pm lecture, "photography & silicscreen,"spon. by isis student art gallery & nd art gallery. speaker sam wang, nd art gallery in o'shag, public invited. 
8 pm meeting; nd groundskeepers rights coalition meet­ing, Iafortune lounge. 
8 pm philosophy perspective serieo;, ''the concept of justice," by prof. kurt baier, u of pittsburgh, spon. by philosophy dept. galvin aut. 

8 p~ lecture, "the christian woman in today's world/' by mrs. patricia crov·ley, christia'l family movement,
I. 

spon. by women's opportunity week. phone
: 

284-4176 for ticket info. stapleton lounge. 
I
8 pm second scene drama, "les parents terribles," gene cocteau, directed by m3rk amenta. o'laughlin aud. 

I no charge. I 
I· 
9-12 pm smoker, spon. by pre-law society, senior bar. 

'I 
I

10 pm meeting, knights of columbus, nomination of officers, k of c hall. 
10:30 pm meeting, j-board chairmen, student govt. offices. 




CUSS holds initial meeting 
Consumers United to Stop textile manufacturer in the United legal and just manner. The Stevens (CUSS) held its initial States and a chronic violator of its company employs over 45,000 · meeting Friday night in the board workers' rights. people in 85 plants. meeting room at Indiana Univer In 1976 a boycott of J.P.Stevens 
The national effort against thesity-South Bend. CUSS is the products was called because of the company has involved numero~sSouth Bend area chapter of the company's union busting practices. 
religious and civic organizations asnation wide campaign againstJ.P The National Labor Relations well as labor unions. The 25 peopleStevens & Co., the second larges Board has found the company who attended the first meetin~ of
guilty in 16 separate cases involv­

CUSS represented a wide spectrum 
ing a record breaking 1200 viola­

Clemson expert of the Michiana community. 
tions of the National Labor Rela­tions Act. 

At Friday's meeting committeesto speak tonight These convictions were levied for were set up to educate the com­
the firing of several hundred 

munity on the issues. involved inon photography workers for union activity and the the J.P.Stevens case. Plans for the 
extensive harassment ofthousands 

near future include several filmSam Wang, nationally recog 
more. The company has also been 

showings, group presentations,nized photographer and printmaker 
convicted of tax avoidance, indus­

and other public information activi­from Clemson University, will pre 
trial piracy, price fixing, electronic

sent a lecture in the Notre Dame ties. Anyone interested in the 
surveillance and discriminatory 

anti-Stevens campaign should con­Art Gallery tonight at 7:30 p.m. 
employment practices. On six 

tact Jum Miller at 259-3674, JoeBorn in Peiping, China, Profes­
occasions the company has been 

Lawrence at 232-8710, 237-4325, orsor Wang was educated in Hong 
cited for contempt in defying court 

237-4326, Tina Wagley at 674-8431,Kong. He received his Bachelor of orders. 
or Ed Gaffney at 283-2786.
Arts degree from Augustana Col­
The boycott was brought about

lege and his master of Fine Arts 
due to the failure of legal sanctions 

degree in photography from the 
in remedying the situation. One 

The Observer Is published Mon­
University oflowa. He now teaches 
day through Friday except during
judge noted in a Stevens case that

photography and photo-silkscreen 
exam and vacation periods. Tl}e
"neither the passage of time nor 

Observer Is published by the
in the College of Architecture at 
the admonishments of judicial tri­

students of Not,.. Dame and Saint
Clemson University. 
Mary's College. Subscriptions
bunals have caused the Company 

may be purdlased for no per year
This program, co-sponsored by 
to alter its now all too familar 

(51 0 per semester) from The
the Notre Dame Art Department 
Observer, P.O. Box Q, Not,..
perseverance of full-scale war a­

and Art Gallery, is free and open to 
Dame, Indiana 46556. Second
gainst unionization" (J.P.Stevens 

dau postage paid, Not,.. Dame,
the public. 
& Co. v. NLRB* 441 F. Snd 514). 

Indiana, 46556. 
. The Observer Is a member of the Associated Prell. All ,..pro­
The intent of the boycott against 
J.P Stevens is to force the com­

*The Observer""'' 
dudlon rights e,.. ,..served. 
pany to deal with its workers in a Night Editor: Joe Bauer Asst. Night Editor: Sandy 
St. Mary's Jr. Class presents,
Colson layout Staff: Steve May~r, Bill Devitt Editorial layout: Rosemary Mills Features layout: Brzhob & Cazzo Sports layout: Ray O'Brien Typists: Carol Erkmann, Beth McPherson, Mark Rust, Anne Giere Night Controller: Mardi Nevin Day Editor: Bob Bernoskie 

Sunday, Apri I 9 tickets on saIe at
Copy Reader: Debbie Dahr­ling Ad Layout: I forgot already 
7pm --12:30 smc dining hall 
Photographer: Doug Christian Last Week's Paper of the 
$13 a couple
Week: Friday [by Bob Brinkj 
open bar, snacks, boutonniere & dancing! 
1979 Sophomore Literary Festival
~~ 
after 5:00pm 
any freshman 

interested
Pi,tpher of 
, 1n applying ·Beer 
for chairman or committee positions

Y2price 
I 

on the 
1979 Sophomoreliterary Festival Council
w/


purchase 
should leave his/her name 

in the Enalish Office
of 
(309 O'Silag) by April 7.

large pizza 
CIJIRf CJJT WZA 
~----------------------------,
HOWARD-~ RB.IGKJUS COMMISSION
&tD.Dl 
PRESENTS
BBBDf 

~ an-aP.i ..J 

A FORUM on the CHARISMATIC MOVEMENT 
CONDUCTED BY FR. ED. O'CONNOR C.S.C 



MONDAY ·APRIL 3 
7:00 PM HOWARD HALL 
~----------------------------~ 
Monday, Aprjl 3, 1978 the. ob@..-ver 
3 

The year in Student Government: A review 
MARY RUKAVINA 
by Jean Powley wouldn't be afraid to tell me when St. Mary'sSaint Mary's Editor 

'they thought that I was wrong,'' she 
'·We want to make Student continued. Government a more service-ori­Service to the Saint Mary's Notre Dame .... ented organization beneficial to the 
community was the area in which ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ South Bend Community, not only the Rukavina administration made T Saint Mary's. The more activities the greatest strides, however. V d we have encompassing more of the Student awareness of student gov-eferanS hin er outside world, the more students ernment's existence as an organi­we can get involved. An increase zation working for their benefit was peace attempts
in interest and activities will in­one of the accomplishments of crease the pride we have in which Rukavina felt most proud. TEL AVIV* ISRAEL [AP] -A band ourselves and Saint Mary's," Mary. The sense of community achieved ot' Israeli war veterans rallying Rukavina was quoted by The among students, faculty, admini-under the slogan "Peace now is not Observer as saying during her strati on, staff and the Sisters of the a dream'' has mounted a striking campaign for Saint Mary's SBP last Holy Cross through activities such challenge to Prime Minister spring. And to a great extent, as this year's Founder's Day Menachem Begin's Mideast poli­Rukavina's administration did just celebration was the other accom-cies. that-served both the Saint Mary's plishment which especially pleased The veterans, joined by a group and South Bend communities. Rukavina. of citizens calling themselves 
As far as community service Successful completion of ongoing ''Peace Now,'' drew a weekend projects, this year's United Way projects such as the 21-Club, crowd estimated at 30,000 by police campaign, under the direction of 21-year-old drinking on campus, to a Tel Aviv city square to protest Julie Pelletiere, was the most creation of a Freshman Council, the slow pace of Mideast negoia­successful ever, raising more than extension of parietals which will tions. They put most of the blame $800. Another example of student probably go into effect by the end on Begin. government's effort to make them­of the year, and smaller things such No one can gauge yet how selves a "vehicle of social justice," as check cashing on the weekends representative they are of the according to Rukavina, was the and the installation of a student Israeli mood. But 30,000 is a huge designating of Logan Center as the phone in the library was the crowd by Israeli standards, and it college's official charity and the hallmark of the Rukavina admini-has attracted attention in top raising of $600 for it. stration. More major steps were government circles. 
Women's Opportunity Week, taken by student government "It would be foolish to ignore now in progress, is a superior during Rukavina's term than them," says Geula Cohen, a example of an activity encompasing during any other time in the recent hawkish member of Begin's ruling the outside world. The seven days past. Likud bloc and a member of of speakers, workshops, concerts, In the area of regrets, Rukavina parliament. "Their number makes sports and panel discussions were said that she wishes she could have them extraordinary and also dang-entirely student government­been more organized and better erous." planned, with the assistance from trained before she took office so Dangerous, says Mrs. Cohen, Director of Student Activities Mary she could have been more effective because they are hindering Begin Laverty. earlier. "As it was, I floundered at a critical juncture in the peace 
Claiming no personal responsi­for about a month and a half and process, and because "the halo of bility whatsoever for the week-long that affected my organization," war veteran is demagogic in our program, Rukavina called it ''the she explained. country, where most men are war best example of the cooperative Student Government veterans." spirit of this year's student govern­should also have sponsored more The way the young Israeli ex­ment and the talent of the hall and social activities such as shopping soldiers tell it, their movement was class officers and commissioners on and theater trips to Chicago and born around a coffee table a few the council." Those responsible movies on campus, Rukavina admit-weeks ago when, in the words of for the week and the series of ted. she also wished they had had organizer Omri Padan, "we felt we monthly lectures which preceded it more time to do a comprehensive had a chance for peace following were Senior Class President Nancy study of comps, not for the purpose Egyptian President Anwar Sadat's Mogab, Vice President of Academ­of abolishing them, but to equalize visit here, and the chance was k Affairs Cathy Hedges, Vice the differents departments' re-being lost." President of Student Affairs Kathy quirements and have them more They gathered 300 signature~) of O'Connell, Meridy Niederkorn and accurately appraise what one has fellow veterans on a letter to Begin Laverty, Rukavina explained. learned. "If we're going to have urging him to relinquish more 
''They just took the ball and ran comps, we'd better be fair about captured Arab land and halt Jewish with it," Rukavina said. "It's just it," she said. settlement in the occuppied terri­an example of the terrific staff I had "We've certainly had our share tories. this year, which made my job a lot of failures, times when all of ~us The letter reached the news easier. I'm a firm believer in were wondering if we were doing media and stirred a controversy, surrounding myself with people the right thing. But one must rise primarily because many of the more talented and knowledgeable above the feeling of wondering if signatories were combat officers, in certain areas than myself. You the students are caring about what the cream of Israeli youth. need a division of opinion, people you're doing. Once you do that, Then they started a petition and who will disagree with you and you can't help but succeed. All of claimed to have gathered 10,000 keep you on the right path." us learned that this year. Despite names. . They also mounted a 
"I think that's essential in order the disappointments, everyone "Peacewatch" outside Begin's to be a good leader. And I certainly worked hard to make a go of it for Jerusalem headquarters. tried to get the best people in key the student body," Rukavina con--__ positions. I wanted people who eluded. 

DAVE BENDER 
by Joan Fremeau Retired Copy Editor 
April 1 marked the end of Dave Bender's and Tom Soma's term as Student Body President and Vice President. A.s the top Student Government officials this past year, they accomplished many of the goals set up during their campaign last spring. Bender and Soma ran against eight other contenders and in a run-off election, beat J.P. Russell and John Geppert. Their ticket, as written in their platform, differed from the others in that they proposed to restructure the Student Life Council, to make the Student Union more accountable to Student Government and to use Alumni support in achieving their goals. They also stated they would start a complaint agency, work for a more equitable system of social space and increase student input into Student Government by hold­ing weekly forums attended by campus media and the SBP and SBVP to hear students' complaints and suggestions. An Observer editorial dated March 2, 1977, endorsed the Bender/Soma ticket. "Bender has taken an innovative approach to solving problems that are within the scope of student government. He has demonstrated a responsive­ness in pragmatic terms to the acute problems of hall life ... , proposed the most manageable program for Student Union accoun­tability offered by the candidates," the editorial stated. "Bender's plan to restructure the SLC entirely focuses on more student-rector interaction, a novel idea that reflects Bender's willing­ness to innovate ...and has provided forward-looking ideas as a basis for his candidacy," it concluded. Bender achieved many of his campaign goals and faced many unexpected issues as well, one of the first being the judicial process changes proposed by the Trustees last summer. When the administration announced the Trustee's decision to remove students from the judi­cial process last August, Bender reacted by forming two committees to simplify the rules of judicial procedure and to standardize the hall judicial boards. Although James Roemer, dean of Students, called the committee inappropriate for making any regu­lation changes, Bender's proposals were accepted into the Student Life_ Council's (SLC) proposed discipli­nary regulations passed by the Board of Trustees last October. 

Another unforeseen issue that Bender dealt with resulted from the University's announcement last fall that they would lay off 21 grounds­keepers as of Nov. 1. In protest, Soma helped to oq~anize a Mass for Social Justice and distributed peti­tions supporting the grounds­keepers. 
The Bender administration also coordinated efforts with Saint Mary's to oppose the Logan Center budget cuts proposed by the Indi­ana State Budget Committee last September. They began a letter­writing campaign, contacted alumni and planned to lobby at the state capitol if necessary. 
Finally, when the Student Government Board of Commis­sioners unanimously decided to grant the Right to Life Committee $500 in funds as an act of "Christian principle," senior Jim Maniace appealed the decision on the basis that the Board should not use student money to fund such a controversial issue. The money was rescinded and a fund-raising campaign for Right to Life was planned. 
In his platform, Bender's main concern was for the lack of social space. Last September, Special Projects Commissioners took pic· tures of several halls' social rooms to prove that a problem existed. In October, the respresentative appeared before the Board of Trustees with proposed improve­ments for constructing more social space in the dorms and elsewhere on campus, such as revitalizing LaFortune Student center. 
This semester, the Campus Life 
Council (CLC) voted to pass a social 
space proposal, calling for renova­
tions in Morrissey, Howard, 
Fisher, Sorin and Pangborn halls. 
The formation of the CLC was 
another goal achieved by Bender. 
His platform called for replacing 
the faculty and administrators on 
the SLC with six hall rectors. 
"Student life at Notre Dame 
revolves around the dormitories 
and therefore the decisions and 
policies affecting these dormitories 
should be made by the very people 
who live and· work there," the 
platform stated. 
The CLC proposal was accepted 
last November and took over the 
duties of the SLC in February, 
serving as an advisory body and 
preparing resolutions for the Vice­
President for Student Affairs. It is 
composed of six rectors, four hall 
vice-presidents and one represen­
tative from student government, 
Student Union and the Hall Presi­
dents' Council, two representatives 
[Continued on page 4] 

THE NOTRE DUE CUl.TUAAL ARTS COMMIISION PRESENTS THE TWENTIETH ANNlML 

Collegiate Jazz Festival 1978 

FEATURING MANY OF THE NATION'S FINEST COLLEGE JAZZ GROUPS 
JUDGES: HUBERT LAWS FLUTE LEW TABACKIN SAXOPHONE 
LOUIE BELLSON DRUMS LARRY RIDDLEY BASS 
JOHN LEWIS PIANO DAN MORGANSTERN CRrriC 7=30 FRIDAY NIGHT $4.50 WEEKEND PASS 12=15 SATURDAY $2.50 STUDENT $7.50 
6:30 SATURDAY NIGHT $4.00 NON-STUDENT $8.50 
j,~QE.jl~Jl QCQEJ!~QE!\ WJlJJl)QE)S.~Jf~!J ®:11'--Jl®«H m~mQE 

GEORGET-OWN UNIVERSITY 
Summer Sessions 
HOME 

D Government/ Business/ Sociology internships D Language courses D English as a Foreign Language D Writers Conference D Washington Laboratory D College Preparation D Over 200 graduate and undergraduate courses 
Sessions: Pre-May 22-June 16 First-June 12-July 15 Second-July 17 -August 18 Cross-June 12/26-August 4 
ABROAD 
D Quito, Ecuador-Spanish 
D Dijon, France-French 
D Trier, Germany-German 

0 Oxford, England-Business Administration 
SEND MORE INFORMATION (check above) 


Name-----··-·····-··-------··---···-----------........................................................... . 
Address ... ___ ............. --·----···················· _........................................... . 
·---·-···············----··-------------·--·-------·--·-------·-·-····--·---·-···..···Zip .................... . 
Mail to: School for Summer and Continuing Education Georgetown University Washington, D.C. 20057/or Call (202) 625-3001 Georgetown University is an equal opportunity /affirmative action institution in employment and admissions. 
14 


4 




~;tudents co-author sports novel 
PU.C:IMINT IUIIAU 
ri/ILIC SPYICI II!IQI!SHIP5, 

Dn I. Dlvtaion of Butldt.n&•  Y!AII/l!oi.JOR lntertna Junior or Senior-En&t.naet"lnt or Architecture  

2. Dtvhton of llulldlii!IO ), Depart..nt ot Traneportat ton 4, Depart..nt of Tranaportatton  Entarln& Junior or Sentor-Buatneaa Adm. (Malu.a-nt) llltartna Junior or Sealor-ctvll !natnearlnR lntertna Junior or S.nlor-ctvtl lqlneerlnR  

Indtanapolla  teatlnB and preparation of project report•. Trafrtc control etudiel and preparation or  

l"DIAI!.\,POL!S SU!t!ER 19 78 
LOCATION  TYPE  OF  WDRX  
Indt.napol h  Wrttin& and analy~:inR technical information on buUdinfl: conatructton. etc.  

Indtanapolh  Developing EDP capablltttea.  
Indtanapol11  Inapection, materhla  

5. hr.onnel lntertna Soph(Ja)re, Dtvhton Junior or Santor 
DITAIU:D llfFOIMATIOII ON EACH 

englneerlnl report1. 
tndtenapolh converting fr011 manual to autOIMted recordw k•eping, 
INT!RHSRIP IS AVAII.AIIU: AT THE 
PlACllMl!IIT BUREAU, 213 AI»>INISTRATlON BUlLDlMG, 
APPLlCATIOII DIADLl!IE: APRIL 7, 1978 
MCIT. o'ii'.ALDT~ &MITM • •OCIT • liT· SIT 1MB I, II, III·ECFMI·FLEX·IQE 
NAT'L DENTAL BOARDS • NURSING BOARDS Flexible Progrems & Hou,. 
'l"hne IS • djfferen&e!f! 
For Information Please Call: Collect 

lat~:
West Lafayette 

EDUCATIONAL CENTER 
317-463-7541 TEST PREPARATION 
SPECIALISTS SINCE IU8 

Serving Bloomington, Indianapolis, South Bend For IDeations In other cit.ie1 
Outside N.Y. State Only CALL TOLL FREE: 800-223-1782 CHttrs In Mllor US Cltl11 Toronto, Puerto Rico and L1111no, Switzerland 
classes forming for GRE and LSAT 




lettermen
•


mconcert 
~to~ OOikft"t 
NOW AVAILABIE to notre dame and saint mary's studm.~ 
DATE: April 20, '78 TIME: 7:15pm PLACE: A.C.C. TICKET PRICE: $2.50 loYJer arena, $1.50 bleachers 
tickets may be purchased at the St. Mary's branch office (basement of L.eMans Hall) or at the main office of the Notre Dame Cal'lllUS {Main­tenance Garage). 
~by nacre dame cndt union 
JllfJIJ/.ER 
"""' ·-~ /11111111 , "' Alii,
•
• 

S.tl .,,8CIIJIIIItJ : 

• ...,AIIWIIIII ,,, 
uitJIIIIIII, " ltJ Eng//111 fllllll lfJ9 D'SII~g Extended Deadline April 6 
by Jim Brennan 
Three University of Notre Dame students, including All-American ti 1~ht end Ken MacAfee, are co­authors of a new sports novel, Clleats, which will be released tomorrow by the Juniper press. George Berry, a senior English major from Indianapolis, and John Gelson, a January graduate in English from South Orange, N.J. are the two other co-authors. 
c:ongress faces p1ending business 
WASHINGTON [AP] -Congre~s returns today from its Easter recess with the Panama Canal treaty still the pending business in the Senate and a bill to reorganize the postal servicf~ before the House. 
The House ethics committee resumes its investigation of alleged Korean influence-peddling involv­ing Tongsun Park, and conference commiftees continue their efforst to work out compromises on energy and emergency farm legislation. 
Senate leaders already have an agreement that will bring the second of the two canal treaties to a fillial vote no later than April 26. But both proponents and foes of the pact anticipate it could come sooner. 
Senate Majority Leader Robert 
C. Byrd, D-W.Va., is anxious to dispose of the treaty issue that has oc,~upied the Senate since early February. because deadlines are approaching for action on budget legislation. 
The Senate already has approved one of the canal treaties, guaran­teeing the waterway's neutrality. The remaining treaty would give control of the canal to Panama by the year 2000. 
The major issue on the House floor this week is likely to be the proposal to reinstate some govern­mfmt control over the Postal Ser­vice, specifically by giving Con­gmss veto power over any pro­posed change in mail service, and by allowing the president to choose the postmaster general. 
Since 1970, the Postal Service has been a semi-independent ag,ency. The plan to restore government control over it is expected to pass the House. 
Less clear are the fates of the en,ergy and farm bills. 
!Differing versions of plans to dc!:regulate natural gas pricing are before a House-Senate conference committee, and some lawmakers have indicated they are close to a final agreement on that issue. 
President Carter has promised to veto the farm subsidy bill now in conference. It would boost price supports for major crops, pay farmers to idle additional acres and en:mre producers of wheat, feed grains and cotton higher federal guarantees if they reduce acreages up to SO percent. 
Dave Bender 
[Continued from page 3] from the Faculty Senate and . the Vice-President for Student Affairs and the Dean of Students. 
In keeping with his pledge to meet with the alumni, Bender and Representative to Alumni Patty Dandaville began a series of meet· ings with members of the Board fo Directors of the Alumni Association last September. Informational letters were sent to the 21 directors each month and such activities planned as the Alumni-Senior pic­nic, to be held May 6. 
Finallv, under Bender's adminis­tration, ~n HPC committee propos­ed 1revisions to the Student Govern­ment Constitution, which were accepted this Spring; a student escort service began operating last October as a result of complaiats about poor lighting and security on campus; and two new Student Govermnen' Cabinet positions were created -those of Interracial and Social Concerns, and Social Justice Representative. 
Cleats is a fictional account of a semi-pro football team, the Coona­meeset North Dakota War Eagles, that turn themselves around after twenty-three straight losses to vie for the semi-pro Louisiana Pur­chase Football League champion• ship. 
The team has organizational problems, especially between the general manager and the quarter­
back  player-coach,  who  has  a  
father-type image  and  is  one  of  
only  three  players  that  went  to  

college on this team of mostly drifters who find themselves play­ing football in North Dakota. The general manager uses team funds to pay his personal debts and earlier had sold the team's home field, so now they must play all of their games on the road. 
When the general manager finds out that he can win a free ticket into the Continental League if his team starts to win, he tells his player-coach who gets the impression that the whole team will go along with the general manager to this new league. This is the turning point for the team. Once they have this incentive, things begin to fall into place. The players, extremely character types, are high-strung and very spirited. They get better with every win and eventually end up playing for the championship. 

The book was co-written by the three co-authors for a writing classs at Notre Dame during the first semester. At the time, it was not written for publication but as a project for the class. It is not connected to any real team, play­ers, or league. It is a humorous, fictitious story written for the purpose of entertainment. 
Juniper Press is a student­operated publishing company which was started last year by Elizabeth Christman, associate professor of American studies at Notre Dame. Cleats was selected from more than two dozen manu­scripts submitted to the press. Co-author George Berry gave much credit to the writing course and especially to the Juniper Press which makes it possible for stu­
dents  to  publish  books  which  
otherwise  probably  wouldn't  be  
published.  





PLACEMENT BUREAU 
Main Building 
JOB INTERVIEWS ARE OPEN TO SENIORS AND GRADU,\TE STUDENTS IN THE HAY AND AUGUST ClASSES,, .... .ANY WllD INTEND TO HAVV. INTERVIEWS ~ST W.V'F. A COMPLETED PROFILE (REGlS'mATION) FORM ON FIIJ! AT THE PU.CE>f!NT BUREAU,,, REGISTRATION, INTERVIEW Slc;N-UP SHEETS AND EMPLOYER LITER.A'l'URE ARE Ul ROOM 213, MAIN BUILDING,,,,,PU.CE>f!NT BUREAU lS OPEN 8:00 A,M, Tll 
S :00 P,H., Kltm.\Y THROUGH FRIDAY •••••••••CONSULT THE PLACEI'£NT K\NUAL 
FOR ADDITIONAL lNP'O~TlON RECARDlNC INTERVII:W AND PLACEMENT SERVICES AND PROCEDURES. 
YOU ~ST SIGN FOR YOUR INTEitVIEWS PERSONAUY 
THE SIQl-UP PERIOD IS FROM 8,:00 A.M. TO 5:00 P,N., I'{)NDAY THROUGH THURSDAY, 
INTERVIEWS SCHEDULED FOR WI!EK UF APRIL 10, 
SIGN-UPS WILL COMICNCE KlNDIIY, APRIL 3. 
------.-,-,-~.-.-.-----------------------------­
D4T! 
AJ.BA!GSCLIIHBA 
April 11 
TUF.s. 
X 
X
1 
X  X  X  X  
X  X X X X X  X  
April Fri.  14  X  X  


Egutuble LiCe Auunnce Society. B in AL and BA. Rucheduled from March 29. 
U. S, Air Force -AirForce Comlnhlion BH in all diaeipltne-a. For: Developnent and Ci911l Eqr. Coraputen, Weather Space Syatem, Scientilts, Acquilition Proaum, Con~nunicattona, Pilot/Navigator. Loutiona: Worldwide. Cithe01hip required. 
Everett Piano•. Sublidiary of Yauha B in Mgt and rtno. Piano Hlnuhcturer. For: Super... vt1ion, lndu1trtal Engr Dept, t"Jme Study, Location: South Haven, MI. Perm, Rea. Viu required. 
G.\B Buline11 Services Inc, B in AL, BA, EG and SC. In1ur:ance Adju1ti.ng. Locattona: Natlonwtde. Cithenlhip required, 
Holley Carburetor Divilion. Colt lnduatriea. B in foE. C.rburetor and Rehted Automotive Producta . 
·For: Product De>at.an and Development emph411hinf Mnda-on approach. Location•: DiYiliOn headqulrterewWarren, MI. (1uburb ofDetroit) Perm, b.1, Vi.. r.quired. 
lndhna Leshlatlve Servic:.. Asenc:v MBA. K\ or PhD in Icon. P'or: Proaram Andy1t inw valved in comprehen• ive nvtev• of 1t.te agencie1. Location: lndiau,.olil 1 IN. Cithenahip require..J. 
tnternat1o1111l Harveater. Truck Group lnsr. Division liM in lC, !! and Met. For: o..tgn or Te1t1ng politiont. Location: Pt. Wayne, IN. Penn. Rea, Vi.. required. 
R. W. Beck and Aaaoct.tu B in£!, Analytical and Con1ult1ng Eng1neen. For: Engineerinl poaition•. lndianpolia, IN. Perm. Res. Vtu required, 
GradUiting atudent11 lnteruted in Reauurant "'-nagement in the Hidweat for IOAI 1 S HEAD REStAURANTS may leave Profile• or RuUlnu U the Pl•cement Bureau. 
April 3 • April 7 
ThiB Week At The 
Career Development Center Saint !J.ary' a College 284-4431 
INTERVIEWS  
NA!·1E  DATE  MAJOR DES IRED  
Walgreen Company  lo'on, April 3  All Majors  
Veterans Ad!!tinhtration Hasp.  Tues, April 4  All Majors  
Clark Equipment  Wed,  April 5  Business/Computer Science  
GAB Business s·er.rices  Wed,  April 5  All ~lajora  
McDonald's C~rporat ion  ThUrs. April 6  All Majora  
Action/Peace Corps/Vista  'l'ues. April 2~  All ~!ajors  

WORJ<;;.'  
!L  
Decision !~akin~ .:/. "l3lue.3 C'lariflCa.tion  TueG. 4/4  12:30­2:30  ?<t !·~cCorrac:..:  Student Aft'ait"s Cant\ 3:-:. il:n. 170 T..!ol.  

t.rpen to e.ll Sair.t ¥.e.ry's a.ld '{c:re Uame sb.det~tn. !lll!!ase :dgn U:t> Cor all int~l""J'i~J at tt.e CDr., Student Aff~ 1.r3 Wing, lT5 T_c'-'-·.s l!!!.ll. Call the CDC fer the late;;t infVnr.ation on post}:lt':-~ementa a:.d caucella'ti':'r.8, 

-------~-~------~---------------------~--­

Forum tonight on Charismatics 
The Howard-Badin Religious 
Commission will. present a forum 
on the Charismatic (or Pentecostal) 
Movement in the Catholic Church 
tonight at 7 p.m. in Howard Hall. 
The principal speaker will be Fr. 
Edward O'Connor. CSC, professor 
of theology at Notre Dame. 
Fr. O'Connor is a widely recog­
nized specialist in the area of 
Charismatic Renewal. He has writ­
ten prize-winning works on the 
subject. including The Pentecostal 
Movement in the Catholic Church 
and Gifts of the Spirit. 
Other speakers at the forum will be Mr. and Mrs. John Boughton. Brother John Lavelle. CSC. Mary Champion and Timothy Cisar. All of these participants have been active in the Charismatic Move­ment for several years. 
All are cordially invited to attend this forum. 
L-,-------~--------l 
S.B. Art Center 

features Rockwell show 
An exhibition of paintings and drawings by American illustrator Norman Rockwell will open tomor­row through Sunday. April 23. at the Art Center in South Bend. More than tifty of Rockwell's works will be exhibited in the Warner Gallery of the Art Center. 
The Rockwell pieces have been loaned to the Art Center by the Wagnall Memorial Foundation. The Columbus Gallery of Fine Arts. Massachusetts Mutual Life Insur­ance Company and the Brooklyn Museum. The Art Center's Cura­tor. Thomas B. Schorgl. pointed out tat several paintings in the exhibition were commissioned as magazine covers. Schorgl also 
Monliay, April 3, 1978 the observer 
Related to THC 




New drug helps chemotherapy pain 
HOUSTON (AP] -Cancer patients new drug improves patients' atti­at the Indiana University School of tudes and helps them cope with the Medicine are overcoming the pain painful side effects of their treat­of chemotherapy with a synthetic ment. drug related to the active compo­The chemical, nabilone, was nent in marijuana, an IU researcher developed by the Indianapolis­reported here. based Eli Lilly & Co. pharmaceuti­
cal firm and has proved more 
Becky Furnas, a registered nurse effective than standard drugs taken in the medical school's cancer to reduce the nausea and vomiting treatment section, told the Ameri­that often accompany chemother­can Cancer Society's weekend apy. seminar for science writers that the Nabilone is chemically related to 
WSND radio announces '78-'79 department heads 
WSND has announced the 1978-79 department heads whose duties became effective this past weekend. Among the seven new department heads chosen, two women are filling positions that have previously been held by men. 
Kate Bernard, a junior American Studies major, has been named the first woman Station Manager in the Station's sixteen year history. A South Bend native, Miss Bernard is a former WSND-FM announcer and Continuity director. She replaces Peter Goerner. 
Assuming responsibility for FM is Marita Lipka, a junior accounting major. Miss Lipka, from Rocky River, Ohio, replaces Mike Karels as FM Program Director, and is also the first woman to hold the position. During the 1977-78 school year, she acted both as studio coordinator and as chief 
annoncer. 

Chris Anderson, a sophomore from Lexington, Mass., has been named the AM Program Director, replacing Steve Thomas. Anderson a government major. has served in the past as an AM disc jockey. 
Paul Stauder, a sophomore Ame­rican Studies major form Danville, Illinois, has been appointed Sports Director. The position was for­merly held by Ted Robinson. 
Overseeing the technical main­tenance of WSND will be Ed Darr, as the new Chief Engineer. Darr, a junior engineering major, replace'd Tom Weber. He is a native of Montgomery, Alabama. 
Doug Van Tornhout, a native of South Bend, has been named the News Director. Replacing Mike Murphy, VanTornhout is the former Public Affairs Director at WSND and producer of the pro­gram, Closeup. 
John Foster, a five year veteran 
explained that this exhibition will bring together original paintings Michigan changes and drawings that few people ever have a chance to see in one drinking age showing. 
The exhibition is open Monday [Continued from page 1] through friday. 9 a.m.-5 p.m.; drinking would be guilty of a Saturdays and Sundays. noon-S misdemeanor punishable by a $100 
p.m. at the Art Center. which is fine and 90 days in jail. Anyone located at 120 S. St. Joseph Street. who served alcohol to a minor 
For additional information, would also be guilty of a misde­please call the Art Center at meanor. punishable by up to one 284-9102. year in jail and a $1000 fine. 
J-board chairmen 
of WSND, will continue in his 
position of Director of Production. 
Foster, a South Bend resident, 
works in management at the Ben 
dix Corporation. 
WSND plans revitalization of its 
Sales Department, but a Sales 
Manager has yet to be chosen. 
Interviews will be held Thursday 
and Friday of this week. If 
interested, call for an appointment 
time at 7342 or 7425. The job is 
done on a commission basis. 

Rhodesian peace meeting 
[Continued from page 1] 
the earliest date when this mew 
meeting might be accomplished," 
Carter said. "We and the British 
will act as basts and we will. of 
course. encourage United Nations 
participation as well." 
Carter's national security ad­
viser. Zbigniew Brzezinski, said an 
initial meeting was planned with 
the Patriotic Front leaders. Robert 
Mugabe and Joshua Nkomo. pos­
sibly this month. Brzezinski said 
the meeting involving all the 
parties would follow. perhaps as 
early as May. 

Morrissey elected Sholastic chief 
Scholastic editor-in-chief Kath­
leen McElroy announced that Jake 
Morrissey was elected last night as 
editor-in-chief of next year's Scho­
lastic by a majority vote of the 
editorial board and staff. 
Morrissey, a sophomore English 
and American Studies major from 
Bennington, Vermont, served as 
Culture Editor this year. 
Morrissey plans to continue 
thematic issues and expand the 
role of fiction and investigative 
reporting in the magazine. 
Recruitment of new writers and 
production staff is also a-prime 
concern of Morrissey's. 
He also announced that applica­
tions for editorial board positions 
are being accepted immediately. 
For more information; contact 
Scholastic at 7419 or Jake at 3580. 
The Navy Aviation Career Van will

meet tonight 

be at Stepan Center Parking Lot for your convenience. Stop by and see
There is a mandatory meeting for all hall Judicial Board Chairmen 
us April 3, 1978. 
tonight at 10:30 p.m. in the Student Government Offices. The new Judicial Coordinator will be selec­ted at the meeting. Candidates for the position should also attend. 

Amnesty Inter. meets today 

The monthly meeting of Amnes­ty International will be held this 




'CLEATS'
afternoon at 4:15 p.m. in Rm. 343 of O'Shaughnessy. All members are asked to attend. 
IS COMING 

THC, the ingredient that produces the "high" when marijuana is smoked or eaten. But nabilone must be created synthetically, Miss Furnas explained, and it does not intoxicate cancer patients. "Most cancer patients now would resist taking marijuana in any form," she told the science writers. 
"They want to feel as normal as possible and don't want any 
•high' from their treatment." 
Miss Furnas said some of her own cancer patients compared the effects of nabilone, which has an experimental dating from the fed­eral Food and Drug Administra­
tion,  and  compazine,  the  drug  
normally used to fight  nausea  in  
chemotherapy patients.  

Thirty-eight of the 47 patients reported suffering milder side ef­fects with nabilone, she said, The drug also reduced nausea on the second day of the five-day chemo­therapy treatments, while compa­zine acted more slowly. 

Miss Furnas said patients also reported they slept better, had better appetites, and were in better spirits when using nabilone. 
It was discovered, however, that some patients suffered from de­creased blood presSure.while using nabilone, and others found that it gradually lost its effectiveness. 
Cancer specialists at IU are continuing their study of the drug, she said, and their results wi:ll be compared with studies done at the University of Arizona. The tests will be used by the FDA to decide if nabilone should be offered as a standard treatment. 

He was in his twenties. So was she. Both were Catholic, unmarried, prayerful, creati\l•e. Both cared about people and cared for the~m. 
How come he never thought of the priesthood!? How come she never though1t of being a nun? 
"No one ever asked me~' they said. 
Is this your story? No one ever aske1d you? Well, we're askin!g. 
-Mail Coupon Today!---------------­
Please send informatio11 on: 
0 Diocesan Priests 0 Religious Priests 0 Brothers 0 Nuns 0 Lay Ministries 
Name __________~-------------­
Address _______________________________
~----­

______ ZIP
City ------------State 

VOCATIONS COMMITTEE/SUPREME. COUNCIL • 
KRI6HTS ol'= C.OLUmBUS 
New Haven, CT 06507 

---.-~-------------------·------­


Looking Back 
... 
A Beginning My Turn 
========tom soma =====~=========mary rukavina 
Spring has finally arrived. Ducks are once again swimming in the St. Joe's Lake, and the sun shines past dinnertime, and more and more couples seem to be holding hands as they stroll around campus. Winter parkas have been exchan­ged for sport coats and windbrea­kers. Softballs have replaced snowballs on the South Quad playgrounds. And over in LaFor­tune, a new administration is moving into the student govern­ment office. 
It is hard for me to believe that my year as Student Body Vice President has come to an end. But it has, and now it is time to move nn. T.S. Eliot would say though, ··to make and end is to make a beginning...the end is where we start from." Now I must start the processs of incorporating the va­lues which have become important to me during my time in office. 
Looking over some files while cleaning out my desk, I had a chance to reflect upon all that has happened during the past year. The lessons I have learned have been numerous, and I'm sure that I still haven't begun to grasp all of them, but three stand out as the fruits of my year. The first is best expressed in Matthew's Gospel, and paraphrased it reminds one to remove the plank from his-her own eye before attempting to remove it from the eye of his-her neighbor. Recognizing that a plank is there after looking around it for so long is difficult, but the real challenge is trying to remove it. For me the removal process has demanded that I learn to listen to others; realize that I don't have the answer to every problem; accept the fact that: the world does not revolve around me(though still believing that I still do have something to offer to it); and concentrating on first keeping my own house in order, and second on being respon­sive to the needs of those most immmediately around me. In a broader sense, Mathew's message calls me not to a philosophy of benevolence and concern, but to a lifestyle in which those virtues are humbly prominent. 
The second lesson which I have learned, and one which was at times quite painful, is that one must not be afraid to stand up for what he (or she) sincerely believes. Proceeding with caution and objec-

DOONESBURY 
.. ANO THtN THE CAMERA CJJ75 
8ACK TO ME ON A MI301UM CLOSE-UP AS I SAY, ''WAS 7Hc 
CAI<!ER JOURN5Y A SVCCESs? ONLY TIMe wtu 7EL.L.. t '' 
" 
THAT's YUP. WHAT IT? 00 YOU THINK? 
I 

tivity is crucial when an issue of extreme importance is at stake, but being able to make a decision regarding that issue and then to firmly stand behind it is the quality of a truly free person. One must constanly be open to challenge, for challenge enhances awareness and allows one to see more clearly that which is still important. In the end, I believe that personal happi­ness will be reflected in one's ability to distinguish between the petty and the important, and then to pursue those things that really mean something and are worth standing up for. 
My third lesson, though prob­ably the simplest, is perhaps one of the most challenging. It is the one that I have found myself most often forgetting , and thus the one that I will have to work on most in the future. Briefly, it is this: Each person is unique; he (or she) has strengths and weaknesses, talents and gifts, and most importantly, something of value to offer me. Everyone also assumes some kind of role, but the role one plays is far less important than the person is. The respect to which each person is entitled is derived not from the role that he or she assumes (i.e. Student Body Vice-President, Dean of Students, or University Presi­dent), but from the inherent uni­queness of his or her individual person.. And finally, the fear of another person, for any reason, or the creation in others of a fear of oneself, is something that we all could very easily do without. 
To say the least, this past year has been an interesting one . And before I reach my end (or begin­ning), I would like to thank all of those who have made the year such a special one. Most of all, I would like to thank those who gave so freely of their gifts and talents. I wish Andy and Mike and their administration the best of luck in the coming year --I hope they will be able to leave with as many pleasant memories as I have. And I leave you now with the words of one more profound than myself, Gregory Norbert: "When the time of our particular sunset comes, our thing, our accomplishment, won't really matter a great deal. But the clarity and care with which we have loved others will speak with vitality of the great gift of life we have been for each other." 
by Garry Trudeau 
10& I ORfJP MY VOICE•••"BIIT 
If 7HERE UJ45 ANYTHIN6 OF SIJB­STANCE TO Be 0/VINCD FR1JY1 
Tfi!S TRIP, IT COMPL.ETCLY tiS-CAPE/) 71/c ATm/TICWOF 7H!5 R£POI<TCR.! If ............. 
HelL, YeS! I CALL '£3M A5L 5EE 'EM, RlCK..' 
I 

My mind was tied in a knot for hours as I sat with pen in hand trying to force the words. Nothing. How does one go about summing up a year as student body president of Saint Mary's College? What should the tone and style be? My rhetoric professor would have grimaced if he had seen me grappling with these problems. The words should have been flow­ing with ease and yet I didn't have the vaguest notion of how to appropriately sum up a year's worth of activities. 
Then I began looking at it in broader terms. I began thinking about what it was that I was really trying to evaluate. It was, afterall. justone year of my life. How does one evaluate a year of life? When I looked at it in that light it became easier for me to write. 
Like all years, I had my ups and downs. I gained footage when and where I least expected it. and fell short in areas where I thought I had it made. I learned a great deal about human nature. mine includ­ed. I suffered frustrations and disappointments and realized the abundance of warmth and compas­sion that is possible within the Saint Mary's community. I trusted some untrustworthy individuals. who let me down and I. at times. also let my fellows down. I gained respect for many. and lost it for others. I witnessed small. petty injustices yet was involved with some of the most humble. compas­sionate people I have ever known. I saw disorganization ruin some events while others clicked with the efficiency of a Swiss clock. 
I participated with fellow friends. 




%The Observer 
an independent newspaper serving the notre dame and saint mary's community 

The Observer is published by students of the University of Notre Dame a~~ Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the pol1c1es of the administration of either institution The . news is_ reported as accurately and as objectively ~s po~s1ble. Ed1tonals represent the opinion of a majority of the Ed1tonal Board. Commentaries opinions and letters are the views of their authors. Colu,.;,n space is available to all m~mbers of the community, and the free expression of varying opm1ons on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
Tony Pace Editor-in-Chief Steve Odland Managing Editor John Calcutt Executive Editor Barb Langhenry Executive Editor Rosemary Mills Editorial Editor Phil Cackley Copy Editor Jean Powley St. Mary's Editor Ann Gales News Editor Mike Lewis News Editor Diane Wilson News Editor Ray O'Brien Sports Editor Bryan Gruley Features Editor 
Box Q 
Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
Monday, April 3, 1978 

classmates. and confidants in a truly noble endeavor. Those of us who struggled together in the 1977-78 student government. in service to the Saint Mary's student body. should feel nothing but pride. We faced a difficult task ht:ad-on and did an exceptional job. I claim no individual credit. only a share in the team effort. 
Those of you who were involved know we literally cried. worked. laughed. hurt. smiled, triumphed. fell. climbed. joked. and prayed together. If the caliber of people that I shared my year in student government with is an accurate indication of the Saint Mary's student body. then truly the strength and future of this college is in good hands. 
During my year in office I have be:come Saint Mary's harshest critic and most loyal servant. I have also become very aware of the many others at Saint Mary's who love it the way I do, and they deserve mention at this time. The Board of Governance. many who were more experienced than I. accepted me as leader; they pro­vided an atmosphere in which nothing but creative and beneficial things could develop for Saint Mary's. 
The Student Assembly put up with my ofter times short­tempered and off-handed way of doing things; and still managed to make timely and pertinent deci­sions which should be commended. I owe at least part of the smooth­ness of my year to the tremendous and talented faculty. and to the example which the administration set for me. 
During the year I learned I had a constant source of consolation and cheer in my friends. I also came to appreciate the seniors on my staff who longed to be out of office and relax. And there are those. such as my two vice-presidents who many times kept me in one piece. 
Not to go on in the fashion of an academy award speech. I would like to end this by thanking God and the entire student body for giving me the opportunity to have served St. Mary's College. 
s e riousIy, foI k s!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~ 



Jimmy's Best Friend 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii__.iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii__.iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii crrt bu c hwaI d 
WASHINGTON--"Hi. my name is Bert Lance." 
"And I'm the Sheik of Araby." 
''You're just the man I want to talk to. How would you like to loan me $5 million?" 
"What on earth for?" 
"Well. you see I owe the First National Bank of Chicago a bundle of money. and this bank in Ten­nessee. and I have to unload my stock in the Natinal Bank of Georgia. If you let me have the loan. I'll be able to take over Financial General Bank in Wash­irigton. D.C." 
"It sounds good to me. Say. are you the same Bert Lance who is considered the President's best friend?" 
"Heck, I hardly know Jimmy. We've howdied a few times, but we ain't shook." 
Didn't I read where you go in the back door of the White House once or twice a dya?" 
"That's just to pick up my mail and have my hair cut. I would never use my connections with the Pres­ident to put over a bank deal." 
"Of course not. But didn't the President give you a diplomatic passport?" 
"Yeh, but he gives everyone from Georgia one. Some Presidents give out tie clasps. other Presi­dents. cufflinks. Jimmy likes to give people diplomatic passports. I gave mine back." 
"Why?" 
"I didn't want anyone saying was using my White House con­nections to buy up banks with Arabs." 
"Well. my people are always interested in loaning $5 million to Americans. but at the same time it would be nice if I could say you know the President." 
"I couldn't take the loan under those conditions. A man in my position has to stand on his record in the banking business. and not on who he knows in Washington." 
"I respect you for that. Mr. Lance. Most people who come to us for money try to impress us with their connections. But you're the first one I've met who refuses to cash in on your former high position in the government." 
"LaBelle chides me for that all the time. She says. 'Bert. every­body pretends to know the Presi­dent intimately for private gain. Why don't you?' And you know what I tell her? I'm just a poor boy from Georgia. but if I can't put a bank deal together without using Jimmy's name. I'd rather pick peanuts." 

"Since this deal you're talking about involves a great deal of money. my fellow sheiks would want some assurance that the U.S. government won't step in and stop it before it gets off the ground." 
"Trust me. Check me out. Look what I did in Calhoun. Where would the National Bank of Georgia be right now if it weren't for me? I Do you think I don't know how to take over a bank without getting into trouble with the SEC?" · 
"This bank that you're planning to take over. where is it?" "Just a hop. skip and a jump from the Oval Office.'' 
"That close?" 
"It's in walking distance of the Treasury Department. but since I bt~came a private citizen I never walk there." 
"Then we can assume that if we get involved, we won't be embar­rassed because everyone thinks you're the President's best friend?" 
"Trust me." 
(c]1978, Los Angeles Times Syndicate 
--------~­

' 
Monday, April 3, 1978 the oburver 
7


Tech theatre 
Random Glimpses of the Scenographic lab 

jim casurella 
These . are notes from one theatre technician's journal. They are bits and pieces of information and commentary about various problems in technical thea­tre. Some are general, some deal specifically with Notre Dame and Saint Mary's theatre. After reading this, you might even consider being a theatre technician. I wonder. It's a lot of work, but it's a lot of fun too. And very rewarding. 
Directors Approach with caution. In an educa­tional situation, it is not always wise to assume a director knows anything about technical operation. Few do. Nearly all think they do and a technician must be careful to give the director exactly what he is looking for, even if he is never told exactly what that is. "Reading a director" is an art in itself, and a good technician can find a balance between the director's concept and his own. Should you be blessed with a director who understands the technical end (we even have some here), you need not be overly concerned about anything except doing your job well. 
Actors 

Assume ignorance. Most actors arl too busy developing their skills and learning lines to bother about technical things. Their job is made easier when a technician does his own job well. 
Actor-Proofing 
This process is a major part of set 
construction. Its neglect can cause a major 
disaster such as the death of several actors 
or even dan.~ge to the set. To make 
something actor proof, you must: 
I] make sure there is nothing an actor may be injured on. That means no loose wires to trip over, no sharp edges or splinters to get cut on, no movable parts to get fingers caught in, etc. 
2] make sure there is nothing an actor may injure. That means you must build it to withstand an anvil dropped from an airplane (stron­ger if you plan on more than five performances). 
Try to remember that if anything at all could possibly go wrong, it will. 
Designers 
The main problem with designers is that as artists, they strive for the ideal in their minds. Unfortunately, in a university situation, ideal usually means impossible. Remember that by the time the designer shows you his drawings, he has been through the gauntlet with the director, so a good technicican will study a new design very carefully before bursting into laugh­

ter. The designer has proabably been forced to change his design six or seven times already, and artists can be quite sensitive about that. Try to show compassion regardless of how outrageous the design is. 
Rigging: Hanging Thlngs 
Rigging is the most dangerous part of technical theatre because usually you're dealing with extremely heavy objects hanging high above the stage. Any mistake could have serious consequences. Whenever bringing a line in or bringing it out (lowering or raising), always be extremely careful that no one is under your load and be sure to yell a warning-­"WATCH YOUR BRAINS!"--even if you don't see anyone in the area. When hanging or "striking" (taking down) a piece of scenery, on a "T" track system, (see diagram), always load or unload the counterweights at the same time, because the brake will not hold a great imbalance of weight. When the brake lets go, the lighter side will slam into the ceiling at light speed and snap the lift lines, whereupon it will plummet to the stage, making large dents in everything in its path, including equipment, furniture, people, the floor, and the floor below. The same applies to a "hemp"system,except that the stagehand, hanging onto the lines at the rail, will slam into the ceiling instead of the weights. This can be quite painful for the stage­hand. The basic assumption you must make is that everyone is ignorant (includ­ing yourself). Everyone and everything should be checked and re-checked before a move is made. 
Set Construction and Lighting [Usc a bigger hammer] 
Once again, potentially dangerous equip­ment is everywhere; you can't take too many precautions. This is especially true when, due to circumstances beyond your control, you have a short space of time to do a great amount of work. In our situation, the main reason for this is that the ND-SMC Theatre does not have a theatre of its own. In a shared facility, events are scheduled so that the theatre isn't free until a short time before a show opens. Couple this with the fact that, often, other things (musical recitals, guest speakers, movies, etc.) are taking place close to your shop, and you can't make any noise while they're in progress: lt you can't make noise, you can't work. So you are forced to work odd hours (early mornings). This is the time when most ·accidents occur. Tired people may not be paying quite as much attention to what they're doing as they should be. Without this proper concentration, it is very easy to slice a finger in a power saw, or crush a thumb with a hammer, or get a jolt from a 

B] "T" track counterweight system [O'laughlin Auditorium]: 1--pipe batten on a fixed line sPt; 2--aircraft cable lift lines; 3--multigrooved head block [pulley]; 4--adjustable trimchains [to even the lines]; 5--"T" track; 6--purchase ~ine [rope]; 7 --brake on locking rail; 8--idler pullery [often adjustable]. 
"Rush" Day in the Life of a Theatre Technician 
7 am-1pm Shower and go to theatre; begin work. 1-1:30 Send out for lunch. 1:30-6 More work. 6-6:30 Send out for dinner. 6:30-6 am More work 6-7 Sleep And repeat 

live wire. And oh yes--if somethmg doesn't work ·or doesn't fit, use a bigger 
hammer. 
One of the fun things not mentioned in most textbooks is how you receive your instructions. They can range from a complete set of drawings with all details, charts, graphs, etc., to a scribble on the back of an McDonald's napkin. The napkin drawings often appear during rush time, and it is during these times when you have to give up a few luxuries, such as class, sleep, homework, eating, etc., much to the dismay of your professors and your body. Usually, both understand and forgive, though professors can often be much more forgiving than bodies. 
Motivation 

Why do it? It probably sounds as though some aspects of technical theatre aren't too much fun, and that's true, some aren't, but overall I like my job. I work hard, I miss some sleep, I miss out on some of the more 
relaxing activities my dorm buddies would normally have me indulge in. Doing a good job requires sacrifice sometimes, and I try to do a good job. I guess all the hassle and bother is compensated for on opening night. I don't think there's any better feeling than the one I get when I see the curtain rise on all my work that first show. It's then that I can finally smile, sit back, sio an icy screwdriver, and enjoy. (Editor's Note: Jim Casurella is technical assistant for the Speech and Drama Department, a member of I.H.T.F.P. Local #2, and S.P.A.M. International.) 
The Absurder and Humorless Christians 
I'm writing this early on April Fool's Day. It's early because I got up early; and I got up early in order to phone Greg Solman. I wanted to wake him up, get him out of bed, and wish him Happy April Fool's Day. 
I also wanted to congratulate him on the piece he did on me in The Absurder. I tried to explain that it's not very comfortabe being "a campus personality"; that, as a matter offact, I didn't even know what the hell that was; but that you know, being in the public eye, you are eligible for pot shots, cheap shots, etc. I thought his take-off on me was pretty darn good, free of maliciousness and personal ridicule, and so I told him so. I said I thought I should try to be good sport enough to accept with good grace what I felt was done by someone I still considered a personal friend. 
We talked about other things too(inclu­ding the beautiful state of Maine, where Greg lives, and where I went over break to give a parish Holy Week retreat); but the thing that stayed with me was our conversation about humor. We spoke about how hard it is to bring off something like The Absurder; to poke fun without bludgeoning people; to cause a smile without personal attack. 
That got me thinking about the sad state offun and humor in America. In 1968 Jesse Bier wrote in The Rise and Fall of American Humor: ''we are in great part humorless as never before." A-nd things haven't gotten any better. Sometimes I have the horrible fear that the whole darn country may become like solemn Joe B. Hall and his fun-less Kentucky basketball team. 

But the most distressing thing of all is the plethora of humorless Christians peopling the land. These are the folks who are into the rigors of the law; they are heavy on moralism and legalism. They like to quote the rebuking and reprimanding passages of scripture. They are joyless, smileless, Old Testament Christians (and that, as you note, is a contradiction in terms.). 
I wish they could learn something from Lazarus. You see, Lazarus came out of the tomb laughing. Eugene O'Neill suggests as much in \Lazarus Laughed. Lazarus had discovered the answer to the question, "What happens when you die?" Lazarus realized that death was not the end, but the beginning of life ever-lasting. He would, for the rest of his life, share that discovery with people, building up their hope. And when he died (the final time), he died laughing, for he'd already faced death before and so didn't fear it again.· 
The lesson that Lazarus would teach is the lesson of hope--the hope in knowing that God's grace is being poured out on the world. Hope that what should be ;shall be, in the knowiedge that the future is not entirely in human hands, but in the hands of One who -t'• at the grave of Lazarus and called him forth. 
In light of hope and the assurance of a liberating God, one can laugh at human folly, including one's own, even in the midst of misery. Life is meant to have that sort of balance, that type of tension; at the same time we can say what a fabulous world this is, and what an unbelievably crummy world this is. We are called to deal with this tension, to recognize that it is confrontation with the reality of life, to see that one is permitted to laugh even when rage threatens to overcome all. 
Such humor, born of hope, is easily misunderstood, ever apt to scandalize our moralistic and critical minds. And so, Chesterton, for example, shocked the world years ago when he suggested that Jesus withdrew into the desert because he could no longer control his laughter. Jesus knew that his mirth and joy would only be misunderstood. 
Hope does strange things to us. But a lot of people aren't ready for it. We would seem to be out of touch and unsympathetic to the misery and sinfulness in the world, or malicious in our laughter at the expense of such misery, or simply uncaring. But such laughter is the expression of Christian joy (that least-expected of the virtues). Georges Bernanos, tortured by the extinc­tion of the values for which he lived, whose rage seemed without limit, was capable to the end of his life of a laughter that was 
fr. bill toohey 
simple and pure and childlike. Such laughter belong~ to hop~. 
That's the laughter of Lazarus. He was not raised up in resurrection; he was resuscitated, reclaimed, returned to a still mortal world with its taxes and troubles and pain. And he would still have to die. So he was right back where he started from....but not quite. 
Lazarus had seem enough on the other side to make him a man of hope. He would pass it on: God is love; he does care; he frees his people. All the promises are true! 
And so Lazarus could exit laughing. You and I? We can live--not without grief, but without fear. We live a life with a necessary mix: we live with tears, but with laughter too, a laughter that springs from hope. 

·r~-..•~-----~----------------------------------------------------------------------­
..' .. 
~ 




Sadat calls for 'clea~r change in Israeli positon' 
[AP] • President Anwar Sadat said yesterday that Israeli Defense Minister Ezer Weizman would return to Egypt this week for further exploratory talks, but the Egyptian leader ruled out a resum· tion of full-scale negotiations 

-~"unless there is a clear change in the Israeli position." Syria, meanwhile, accused Israel of sending "terrorist" infiltrators to mine a key highway linking Syria and Jordan and said 12 Syrians, including nine soldiers, were killed in an attempt to defuse the mines. An Israeli military command spokesman in Tel Aviv denied knowledge of the incident. Sadat, in an interview published in Cairo's October Magazine, said the search for common ground between Egypt and Israel "should continue because we are parties to the Mideast problem." He said, however, that "severe differences" remain between the two countries on how to achieve peace. Weizman, who met with Sadat in Egypt last week in a bid to restart the stalled peace negotiations, will return this week to continue those 

sophomores 
IE OFFER 


SIIIEI Alii 

ABETTER 


LIFE 
AFTEI 

ClllEIE 
Army ROTC offers you a no-obligation, six-week summer leadership pro­gram at Fort Knox. Ky. 
You'll earn about $450 and an opportunity to enter advanced ROTC next fall. That means extra income ($2,500 during your last two years of college) and leads to your commission as an Army officer. 
Army ROTC also offers you new career opportuni­ties after college -part­time as a leader in Re­serve while employed in the civilian community or full-time on active duty. 
For details and an inter­view appointment, contact: 
Major 'John J. Macneil Room 236 In the ROTC Building 
or call 6264 --6265 --7332 
Til lillY .C TID·YUIPIIJIUJI. Fill Til ..lR. 

efforts, Sadat said. "It is impossible to resume the last week brought no new peace and l.srael. 1 
Parallel political and military meetings of the military and politi-proposals. Weizman reviewed his Cairo negotiations begun after Sadat's cal committees unless there is a Sadat was quoted as saying talks at the weekly meeting of the peace journey to Jerusalem last clear change in the Israeli posi-Israeli Prime Minister Menachem Israeli cabinet in Jerusalem Sun­November were suspended in tion," Sadat was quoted as saying Begin had antiquated ideas and day. The cabinet then issued a January because of disputes over a in the interview. was unable to overcome the psy-statement calling on Egypt to homeland for the ~alestinians and Egyptian officials said Weizmari chological barrier between Egypt reconsider its refusal to resume Israeli withdrawal from captured forma.! peace negotiations. 
A!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!rabt!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!erritory!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!.!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!•w0 wsched u Ie~~~~ 
MONDAY. APRIL 3, 1978 3: 30 pm -"THE FRAGMENTED SELF" Stapleton lounge, LeKans Hall Presentation by Penny Jameson, Asst. Professor of Psychology 11nd Deanna Sokolowski, Asst. Professor of Engl tsh.  WEOftESOAY I APRIL 51 1978 3:30 po -"1«14EN IN PUBLIC RELATIONS" 147 Madaleva Hall Presentation by Gtnna Anderson, Publtc Relations Director, Century Center, South Bend, Indiana. Richard Conklin, Public Relations 01rectol', University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame,  TIIURSOAY, APRIL 61 1978 3:00 pn -"FACTS OF CAREER LIFE PANEL" Stapleton lounge. leMans Hall Presentation by Janie Becker, Lawyer. KalamJros Associates; Pat linde~~~an, Salesperson, Ar11er1ccHI Yearbook; Elaine Schenck, Educator, South Bend Schools. Barb Slee, Qclctor, Memorial Hospital. 8:00 ~ _ toRS. MARY HESLIN  SATlltOAY I APRIL 8, 1978 7:30 Pfll .. "ACADEMIC QUIZ SHOW" Ltttle Theatre, Moreau Hall Top scholars of Saint Mary's Co11ege vs scholars of Notre Dame University. Dr. Pflgtor, MC.  top  
8:00 pm -"THE CHRISTIAN 'lli!AN IN TOOAY'S WORLD" Stapleton Lounge, leMans Hall Presentation by Mrs. Patricia Crowley, Founder of Christian Fa•tly Movement and Pr-esident of Space, lnc. Travel Agency.  k;:!~~!tes:a~tc~~~~~l~~~t~!e~~1~~s and leathel'"flood, Director of Advertising and Ccmnun1cat1ons, The Bendh Corporation, South ~Z~h ·~~~~~~ib~=~ ~~~·~!~~ffi~~-Wilktnson, Plt>11c Relations Director. hnerican  Carroll Hall, Madeleva Coom1ssioner of Consumer Affairs for the State of Connecticut. Member of National Product Safety council.  ALL EVENTS ARE OPEN TO THE PUBLIC  

National Bank and Trust Company, South Bend, 
FRIDAY, APRIL 1978
71

Jnd1aM.
TUESDAY; APRIL 4, 1978 
3:00 pn -"FACTS OF THE NON-WORKING MOTHER PANEL" Stapleton lounge, leMans Hall

8:00 ptn • BmY FRIEDAN TICKETS FOR: O'laughlin Aud1torhm
10:30 am • "IS 08EOIENCE A FEMININE VIRTUE" 
Stapleton lounge, lel4ans Hall Pr-esentation by Bonnie Foley, student, 4 children; Ann Milligan, RN, 2 children; 
BETTY FRIEDAA may be purchased starting March 29, Presentation by Ann Clark, Asst. Professor Molly Ried, BA, Psychology, 1 child;
Author of The Feminine ~st1~ue and It ;han~ed 1978 at the Satnt Mary's College Ticket Office of Philosophy. Charlotte Whittaker. BA, History, 1 child.
O~~:e. Founder of Natona Organ1zat on or (239 Moreau -284-4176) or 11t the door. 
8:00 pm • "ANYTHING GOES" Ach1ss1on: $2.00 -General Pl.bltc 
3:30 pn • "W()IEN IN HUSIC' Angel" Athletic Fac111ty Stapleton lounge, leMans Hall Students Free
THURSDAY, APRIL 6, 1978 
Saint Mary's athletes vs Notre oame athletes Workshop by Wendy and Ellen Br1 tton. in obstacle and relay contests.
10: 3C i111 -"IMAGES OF WOMEN IN ART" 232 Moreau Ha 11 
FASHION Slf)J1 may be purchased starting March 29, 8'00 pm • "BLUES ANO CONTEif'ORARY FOLK CONCERT" SATURDAY, APRIL 81 1978 l978,""T::O pm to 9:00 Jlll 1n the leMans lobby or little Theatre, Moreau Hall at the doo1·.
Presentation by Michele Fricke, Gallery Co­ordinator and Kr1st1 Wonnhoudt, Instructor of 
2:00 I'll -"FASHION SHOW" Concert by The Britton Sisters. Art. Dining Hall AOn1sston: St .00 
Fashions from Casual Corner of SOuth Bend. 
-No Reservations 





Oscars start furor--as usual 
HOLLYWOOD [AP] • Contro­versy again surrounds the Motion Picture Academy as Jewish and Arab activists plan to demonstrate at the 50th annual awards tonight over the appearance of nominee Vanessa Redgrave. 
An estimated 500 Los Angeles policemen and sheriffs deputies, as well as the academy's own security staff, will be on duty outside the downtown Music Cen­ter, with others stationed inside. 
The Jewish Defense League (JDL) says 400 persons will partici­
, 

Sandeen to lecture, deliver poetry reading 
Dr. Ernest Sandeen, professor emeritus of English and a member of the University of Notre Dame faculty 32 years. will present two public lectures and a reading. of his poetry tomorrow night through Thursday night. The programs are sponsored by the English Depart­ment and are open to the public. 
Sandeen will discuss "Emerson and the Transcendental Metaphor" tomorrow at 4:30 p.m. in the 

.00 
Monday pm 
Tickets now on sale 
at Student Union Ticket Office and ACC Box Office 

pate in a "peaceful but innovative" demonstration at the ceremony. 
The actress is nominated for supporting actress for her role of underground fighter against the Nazis in "Julia." The League is protesting . the British~~ actress's financing and narration of a docu­mentary, "The Palestinians." 
Supporters of the Palestine Libe­ration Organization, whose leader Yasser Arafat appears in the documentary, plans to counter with its own demonstration, with 200 people expected. 
Memorial Library Lounge. The topic for Wednesday in the same locations will be "Thoreau and the Transcendental Metaphor." The Notre Dame Press, publishers of a recent book of Sandeen's poetry, will join the English Department in sponsoring a poetry reading and reception in the O'Shaughnessy Hall Art Gallery at 4:30 p.m. 
Thursday. 


YOU are invited 
to teach in the freshman Colloquium. 
Leading one of the discussion groups in the Senior-Freshman Colloquium is a rewarding personal experience and a valuable contribu­tion to life at Notre Dame. Fifteen juniors will be chosen now to lead groups next year. This is the only time you may enter the prograr.
Hyou are interested, come one of two meetings: 
4:30 or 6:30PM, Tuesday, 4 April Room 8 Freshman Year Learning Resource Center 
(Brownson Hall, behind Personnel Office). 
If you can't make one of the meetings, call 7421 no later than Wednesday, April 5. It will NOT be possible to enter the program after Wednesday. 
Miss Redgrave's film has clouded her candidacy for the Oscar. The JDL is demanding that 20th Century-Fox, producer of "Julia," promise never to hire the actress again and repudiate her alleged anti-Israel statements.­Picketing of theaters playing "Julia" was threatened if the demands aren't met. 
But the film company refused to accede, stating it would not spon­sor a return of movie blacklist. Hollywood craft guilds supported the studio's stand. 
A Fox official spoke to Miss Redgrave in London last week, suggesting that she come here as an artist and not a propagandist. She reportedly gave assurances that she would appear as an artist. 
Controversy is nothing new to the Academy Awards. In recent years the event has been picketed by Vietnam War protesters, as well as blacks and Mexican-Americans seeking better representation in the film industry. In 1973 Marlon Brando used the awards to protest treatment of American Indians in films, sending a part-Indian actress to refuse his Oscar for "The Godfather." ­
Two years ago, producer Bert Schneider accepted a documentary award with praise for the Viet Cong. His comments riled Bob Hope. who wrote a disclaimer for Frank Sinatra to deliver later in the show. 
Whatever happens outside the Music Center, the awards telecast will begin at 7 p.m. PST over the ABC network and is scheduled to conclude at 10 p.m. However the largest assemblage ever of Oscar winners is promised for the 50th anniversary show and the telecast could run iong -well into the wee hours for East Coast viewers. 
FR. ANDRE LEVEILLE 

ND grad ordained n Saturdayceremon~ 


Engineers and Computer Specialists 
Look into challenging growth opportunities with a leading technology company in 
For fast response send your resume to: Hughes Aircraft Company Roy McCalla, P.O. Box 11337, Tucson, AZ 85734; OR CALL COLLECT: (602) 294-5211, Ext. 5484 
~------------------, 
I I 
1 HUGHES 1 
I I 
L------------------~
HUGHIOS AIRCRAF'T COMPANY 
U.S. Citizenship Required. Equal Opportunity M/F/HC Employer 
Fr. Andre E. Leveille. C.S.C .. ordained a Roman Catholic in the Congregation of Holy during ceremonies last at Sacred Heart Church. 
William E. McManus of the Wayne-South Bend diocese was ordaining prelate. 
the ceremony. the newly .u..~a"'"'u priest and his family were lhOJaon:d at a reception in Moreau the Universitv of Notre Dame in 1977 and ha~ academic degrees from St. Edward's University. Austin. Texas. and Loyola Univer­sity. Los Angeles. California. He entered the Congregation of Holy Cross at Watertown. Wisconsin in 1963 as a candidate for the brother­hood. 

Fr. Leveille will offer his first mass at 11:30 a.m. next Sunday at St. Joseph's Catholic Church, where he has been serving as a deacon. 
··­

• 
1o the observer 

DISCOVER THE GREAT NEW SHAPE LIGHT BEER'S IN NOW 

ANHEUSER-BUSCH, INC. • ST. LOUIS 
New Michelob Light. a·light beer with "Michelob" on Maybe you haven't been the label. 
waiting for another light beer. But if the Light. But not too light. With 
ones you've tried taste lighter 134 calories per 12-ounce serving, 
than you'd like, we think you're ready approximately 20% fewer than Michelob. 
for Michelob Light. After all, taste is still what And now it's ready for you. beer-drinking's all about. And we 
It has the taste you'd expect from didn't forget it. 
GOOD TASTE :RUNS IN THE FAMILY. 


~ 
~ • 


~--· -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Michael Molinelli 
THOSE FIRST YEARS WE{{£ HARD ANI:> IT LOOKED LII)E IT WAS ALL OVER WilEN 
THE L06 CAB1Nj . BURNED DOWIV1 

Summer jobs to be offered 
The Placement Bureau has Hal is unlimited and. for those announced the Columbia Realty students who do not already live in Corporation of Indiana is looking northeastern Indiana, housing will for any students interested in be furnished by Columbia Realty. summer employment. All interested students should 
Salesmen are needed to sell submit a resume or a profile by recreational and vacation lots in Friday. April 7. to the Placement northeastern Indiana. Experience Bureau, Room 213, Administration is helpful. but not necessary. and Building. Interest on the part of the company will provide all train­students will determine an inter­ing and materials. Earning poten-view date. 
Monday, April 3, 1978 

the observer 11 



The ordeal of spring training 
by Mike Henry who look like they were present when Grant signed that long-term contract at Appomatox. Tonight, 
"I know, of coune, that spring ball games In however, was an exception since the Cardinals were Florida are meant to be forgotten. March standings hosting the Blue Jays, whose base is just a few miles and averages are written in the sand; winning Is away in Dunedin. Most of the crowd was composed Incidental. Many ballplayers hate spring training-­of transplanted or visiting Torontonians, and they rookies because of the anxieties of trying to win a helped spur their club to a 4-2 decision. job, the regulars because of the Imminent labor and During the course of this leisurely affair, I began a 
boredom of physical conditioning, the fear of injury, conversation with a gentleman from Toronto named and the threat, heavier each year, of losing a Ernie Frost, his wife and a lady who appeared to be 
starting position. Ouly the fan--and perhaps only the his daughter. Despite having the worst record in the big-city fan, at that--is free to savor the special taste majors last year, and with little hope for improve­of this time and place." ment, they reflected the air of optimism and Thus spoke Roger Angell in his classic baseball enthusiasm that pervades the city when it comes to anthology, The Summer Game (matched in joy and the Blue Jays. (Toronto always tackles things in a excitement only by its sequel, Five Seasons, both big way. The Maple Leafs have been attracting a collection of essays written for the New Yorker. sellout crowds for over forty years.) During the Despite the transtent nature of the spring game, course of our talk the Blue Jays were piecing 
these forays into the South have become an together their winning rally, but the Frosts seemed institution. Reports filter upward of the young more concerned with showing me their city'sphenom batting .700 or the hurler whose fastball immediate devotion to this band of urchins. could shatter bulletproof glass. Yet, frequently such "Last year it snowed on Opening Day and we still players. like Steve Dalkowski or Benny Ayala, are had a big crowd," Ernie told me. "About ten years 
never heard from again. ago we lost our International League franchise, and With such reservations in mind, but still assuming we've been clamoring for a major league team ever the role of an enthusiastic fan, I visited AI Lang since." As he said this, Rico Carty, acquired from Field in St. Petersburg a while back to inhale the the Indians, lined a single to keep the rally going. sunshine, the atmosphere and foremost, the then was replaced by a pinch-runner. "Last year we baseball. had Ron Fairly, and he won some games for us." March 20 Ernie commented. "Maybe Carty'll do the same." I I thought sunshine. AI Lang Field was rebuilt last cautiously broached the subject of expansion. year and now is a superstructure holding 7000 fans. "Maybe we did get a team too soon--look at what However. it contains row upon row of aluminum expansion has done to the NHL. Still, we can seats and this creates temperatures in excess of 100 support the club, and in a few years I'm sure we'll . degrees during day contests. So, this year, many of be competitive." Just then, left fielder AI Woods the games are being played during the evening lined the winning hit. I thanked Ernie and left him to hours. bask in this preseason victory. He won't have too Usually, the crowds here are composed of many many similar experiences this year. 
::::::::::::::::;:::::::::;:;:;:;:::::::;:;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:::::::::::::::~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 
Editor's Note: This is the first of a three part series on the atmos­NL East phere of one baseball training 
camp visited over spring break. 
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::.COnt. 
It's tough to imagine a Met team without pitching, but the club that has produced so many fine pitchers for other major league teams has left itself , EIJR~PE dry. Jerry Koosman, Nino Espinosa, Pat Zachry and Craig Swan are the starters with Skip Lockwood and Bob Apodaca in the pen. l'-'o'o IJ. l:.f"ll"OUJ 
The Mets are heading in the right direction with people 1ike Steve tltdn 12 ldr~ Henderson, Lee Mazzilli, John Stearns and Doug Flynn. Newcomers 
,, "'''"' (800) 325-4867
Willie Montanez, Elliott Maddox, Ken Henderson and Tim Foli will help, 
r,ll<~f rntr.. •·1 or '>lf"P your tr.twf'l ttqpnl 
but, outside of Len Randle, the Mets lack the all-around player that "'' ·· ..,.. ,... ., @ Un;Travel Charters'" winners are made of. ' 
NOTICES 
BUS FOR HIRE: 25 passengers -$9 per hour, 20 mile radius. Rob, 8922 or 8769. 
TYPING DONE REASONABLE RATES CALL8086 
Dissertations, manuscripts, etc.....typed. IBM Selectric II. Linda's Letters. 287-4971. 
Will do typing. Neat. Accurate. Call: 287·5162. 
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND May grads are no longer eligable for loans. The last day for all others is April 
4. 
NO EXCEPTIONS 
NEED QUALITY TYPING?? Executary Inc., Professional Typing Service... IBM Correcting Selectrics. 85 cents pere page, minimum. Call 232-0898 "When you want the best." 
ENVELOPE STUFFING SCHEMES EX­POSED: a two page report free. Practics, 2130 -3a, N.W. Fillmore, Cor· vallis, OR 97330. 
FOR RENT 
Furnished, entirely carpeted. 4 bedroom house. $80 per person. Gas and electric not Included. 438 Harrison one block south of Julio's on LW'N. Call 288·7894. 
Fine house in a good neighborhood (Portage and Angeles area). Reasonable rents. For 4·5 or 6 students. Contact Joseph Gatto, 234·6688. 
One bedroom apart. to sublet for sum­mer. Security. tennis ct., good terms, pool. Call 288-7258. 
FOR SALE 
Used golf balls like new....$20 per 100 and other prices. Call 272-<1783. 
Aria 5string banjo. Excellent condition. Call John at 1694. 
Classic ovation guitar with hard shell ovation case In absolute perfect condi­tion. Must play to fully appreciate. Call 

Full color Cotton Bowl USC football; UCLA Kebtucky and Maryland B-Ball pictures for sale. Sports Illustrated material at alow price. Call Doug at 8982 or stop by 318 Zahm. 
Attention Guitarists -Brand new Martin strings Marquis. $5.25 per set. Tony 7781. 
WANTED 

Needed • two gitrls for summer house­mates. Call 4+4;34. 
Wanted weekend householder for half­way house. Small salary plus room and meals. Overnight stay required. Excellent experience for persons interes­ted in mental health field. For further info call 234-1049. 
Nedd tutors in basic English and basic Math. Available between 8:30 and 4:30 Monday thru Friday. Hourly pay. Call for interview appointment. Projecvt Effect, IUSB, 237-4491. 
$100 plus weekly mailing circulars!!! Materials Supplied, Immediate Income Gauranteed! Rush stamped adressed envelope : Home worker, 2909 ·4DE Pinetree, Hernando, MS, 38632. 
LOST AND FOUND 

LOST: one Texas Instruments SR-11 calculator in or near LaFortune on the Wed. before spring break. Reward offered 233-7213. 
FOUND: Set of two keys found before break. Call Observer Office to identify. 
LOST: One grey suit p-ack containing suit , one pair of slacks, one dress shoes, and seven silk shirts. Left In C-1 lot on Tuesday afternoon. Please call John at 
3807. 

LOST: Class ring between guard house and almuni before break. Reward. Call Dave 1582. 
LOST: Orange ski gloves in green section at Bengal Bouts. Call Dave, 1582. 
LOST: Tex. lnst. calculator '(SR-51-11) from Hayes Helay. Phone 3488. 
LOST: Tl SR50 calculator lost week before break. Please call 7801 if found. 
LOST: Taken or borrowed from ACC. One blue faced Seiko watch. Great sentimental value, so great rewrad. Call 
8833. 
LOST: Tape recorder from E line. Hefty reward. No quastions. Call 3308. 
PERSONALS 
Happy Birthday Kerry and good luck with try-outs. Give it the old college try. 
Help Kerry Rhoa celebrate her 21st Birthday at Nicklas at 10:00. Be There. 
Clare -Do you go naked? 
Mare· Do you really have a boyfriend in Chicago? 
Donna-Why is the radio in the bathroom? 
Mary Beth -The police were reallly after you!! 
Maria loves 'em or leaves 'em. 
Mary • The cut throat tanner. 
Furnished apat. All private 3 rooms up for married grad student. All utilities, near memorial Hosp. No rent for helping 2 people in wheel chairs. 232-9128. 
MaDooley, 24 months is a long time, but look how fast it went. Coolie 
R. Lavender: 
We must go through the technicalities of a merger otherwise our subsidiaries will be ashamed of their parent comapny. 
The banker 

Hulk: Hope you en/·oyed the joke! Best of luck in tryouts!!. B.L. 
Mary Anne Dempsey, 
Now that you are 21 the boys will come flocking. the beer will flow and "it weill be all different." Even though Joe, John, and Mel have all gone by the wayside, you always have "ROTC.' May your life begin at 21. 
J.B., JJ, MB PS: Call this sexy girl and take her out for her birthday. 
Need one hotel room reservation for parents during graduation weekend. Getting desperate. Bill 28g..9351. 
Haircuts, trims, styles, ....cheasp! SMC ~530 Betsy. 
To Chrissy, Danny, Rocky, : 
Thanks for the great ameal and the company. I'll do the dishes -NEXT TIME. 
Mary 
Free to good home: Two puppies [collie and boxer mlxJ [Hmmmmmm...]. Call 272-2520 after 3pm. 
Seniors... 
Send a GRADUATION ANNOUNCE MENT TO: Jimmy Carter, 1600 Pennsyl­vania Ave., Washington DC. 20500. 
Cheri A Ban: You deserve a fruit cupl Thanks! 
Yours  In  novel,  Genre,  Theme,  and  
Quotas,  
-..  The comp kid  

BUS FOR HIRE: 25 passengers · $9 per hour. 20 mile radius. Rob, 8922 or 8769. 
CJF is coming. Be there!!!!! 
New Orleans student is attempting to get a truck for students gear at the end of semester. For information call Jim 8731. 
Liz, Seems like only yesterday but tlme flies 
when you are  having  fun  Happy  
anniversary!  
Jim  

Summer Jobs? 100 positions for engi­neering undergrads. Call Jan 1292. 
Women engineering graduates. Fantas­tic job opportunities. Call Jan 1292. 
Free John Kennedy fund is now under­way. Set John Kennedy free from Union College. Give to your FJ Krepresentitive. 
Beargie, Haaser, Joyce, Trybus, 20 and 6 in Black angus 10 and free In 205 (we have our own room). Brobst, Carroza, Losurdo, Simone. 
OBSERVER TYPISTS: 
There will be ashort Mandatory meeting on Thrusday April 6 at 7:00 pm In the Observer Office. Please attend. 
Mardi 
Well Bradley Babe, You won't need my ID any more. Happy 21st Barb!!! Love. Karen 

<IASSIFIED ADS 
To the guys in the van: Thanks alot for the serenade!! You sounded great. I love d it. 
Your sweetheart. 

Sincerest congratulations to Fr. Andre Leveille CSC on your ordination. Moreau Community 
Juniors: 
Don't forget to dance the night away ­evan on a sunday! Tickets on sale until April 5th -$13 acouple. Any questions 
call4719. 
ATTENTION: All night editors, assistants and layout people. There will be a meeting TONIGHT Monday at 9:00pm. Be there, on time, Aloha! 
Please.....need ride toPG H artea or Cleveland weekend of April 7th. Will share expense. Call Laureen, 4-4152. 
Two need ride to Chicago leaving Thurs. afternoon 4-6. Call Mik!1811 or 1776. 
Stage manager ancll crew needed for Nell Simon's "Come Blow Your Hornl" Meeting tonight, 7 p.m. LaFortune Ballroom, or call Maureen 685&. Present­

r----------------------------------------------------------------------~------------­
12 the observer Monday, April 3, 1978 




Irish pitchers impressivein winning weekend series 
by Craig Chval Sports Writer 
Notre Dame's baseball squad gave a classic illustration of the old maxim that good pitching beats good hitting Saturday afternoon on Jake Kline Field, when the Irish split a doubleheader with St. .Jospeh's College. The Pumas pasted Notre Dame Il-l in the first game, but a sterling pitching performance by Joe Karpowicz carried the Irish to a 2-1 triumph in the nightcap. 
The identical St. Joe starting lineup (excluding the pitcher) that tore the cover off the ball with 16 hits in the opener, managed only four safties against the offering of Karpowicz. The senior righthander didn't feel that he gained any extra advantage from watching the Puma hitters in the first game, though. "It's hard to compare the way two different pitchers throw," explain­ed Karpowicz. "You can't really know what is or isn't working for another pitcher." 
Karpowicz, who has strung together 181/J innings in which he has not permitted an earned run, went the distance to post his first victory of the season. He credits a much-improved bender for his early success. "The curve ball is the biggest difference in the way I've thrown this year," said Kar­powicz, who struck out four. "Coach (Tom) Kelly and I worked 
Ted 

on it a lot during the winter and 
early spring. I basically practiced 
the mechanics of it, and now I'm 
throwing it a little more overhand 
so I'm getting more of a downward 
break." 
The game, scheduled for seven 
innings, was finally decided in the 
bottom of the ninth when succes­
sive hits by Greg Rodems, Rick 
Pulano and Dave Bartish produced 
the winning tally. Bartish's poke, a 
double to right field, atoned for a 
first inning miscue which led to the 
Puma's lone run of the contest. 
The Irish, who committed seven 
errors in the opener, provideq 
excellent defensive support for 
Karpowicz. Rodems made several 
fine running catches in left field, as 
did centerfielder, Bob Bader. 
Karpowicz walked only three, but two came in succession with two out in the fifth, and brought Kelly out to the mound for a visit. "He just asked me how I felt, and I told him that I was fine, and it was just my mechanics," said Karpo­wicz. His mechanics were soon resolved, however, as Karpowicz fanned the next hitter to end the inning. 
Saturday's first game was a rude awakening after Friday's Opening Day 17-0 romp over Bethel College. The Pumas battered a trio of Notre Dame hurlers, with starter and loser Mike Bobinski the biggest victim. Bobinski, now 0-3 on the season, surrendered five runs in 

3\IJ frames before giving way to freshman Mike Deasy. The right­hander was touched for four runs, two of which were unearned. Tim Handrich mopped up in the seventh, yielding a pair of unearn­eel runs. 
The Pumas victimized Irish catcher Dan Voellinger by stealing six bases in as many attempts. More often than not, however, Notre Dame pitchers pretended not to notice any baserunners. Fresh­man backstop Jim Montagano and Karpowicz combined to shutoutthe Pumas tn the base swiping depart­ment in game two. St. Joe was unsucce~ful in its lone attempt, as Montagano rifled a strike to short­stop Pullano, who made a pretty tag to end a bang-bang play. 
Pullano enjoyed an outstanding day at the plate, rapping out five hilts in nine trips, and hiking his team-high average to .488. The junior captain did, however, corn­mitt! three errors in the field. Other Notre Dame hitters who swung lumber well included Bader, Voei­li111ger and Montagano. 
Senior Don Wolfe was in com­pl•~te control Friday afternoon as he NO's baseball squad boasted spurts of solid hitting and pitching notched his second win of the enabling them to take two of three games this weekend. [Photo by 
campaign with a· five-hitter. The Doug Christian] Pilots could advance only one The hitting stars were many, runner as far as second base. highlighted by rightfielder Dave Wolfe whiffed six and walked a DeFacci, who chased four runners batter to become the first Notre home with a pair of singles. Dame hurler to go the route in Montagano and Pullano stroked 1978. three hits apiece. 
Robinson======::===================================================================================================================:============:=========================:========================================================================================:=:=:::==:=============::=:=:=:=======:===:=:=:==== 
Phillies r'epeat 
====================================:===:===::::=:=:::::=:::::::::::====================:=========:=============:=========:=============================:================================:=:========:===========================~==========================:=== NL East 
The National League is hoping that two hotly-contested divisional races will give their attendance figures a shot in the arm in 1978. Last year. Chicago and Los Angeles opened up large leads early in the season, and although the Cubs were caught by the Phillies. the NL races lacked the dramatic flair that the junior circuit's races provided. 
The NL East has fallen on lean times recently as evidenced by the Cubs' ability to take command of the division with a mediocre team last year. Philadelphia has put together back-to-back 100-win seasons and the odds are that. in the absence of stiff competition, they will capture their third consecutive divisional crown. PHILADELPHIA: The Phillies made no major moves in the off-season. yet, no other team in the division strengthened themselves enough to make a serious run at the title. The only thing that could hurt this team is memories of last year's playoff choke at the hands of the Dodgers. The Phils have spent so much time complaining about the weather conditions in the fourth game of last year's playoffs that there must be a lack of confidence in this collection of talent. 
But, it is an awesome array of offensive firepower. No major league team can match the Phils' depth in the eight positions. 
While Richie Hebner and Dave Johnson platooned at first last year, Ted Sizemore, Larry Bowa and Mike Schmidt were an iron-man trio around the infield. The threesome missed a total of26 games among them, so backup Terry Harmon saw little action. Veteran Bud Harrelson, acquired from the Mets. will provide valuable backup help. 
The Phils also have the best outfield group in the majors with Greg Luzinski. Garry Maddox and Bake McBride. reinforced by Jose Cardenal. Jay Johnstone and Jerry Martin. 
The pitching, which ranked fourth in the league last year, revolves around the bullpen of Tug McGraw, Gene Garber. Ron Reed and Warren Brusstar. Rookie righty Jom Wright may join the starting rotation ofSteve Carlton. Larry Christenson, Jim Lonborg and Randy Lerch. 
The search for the fifth starter is the only Phillie question mark as the season approaches. This team. which became only the second team in league history to draw 2. 7 million fans at home. will be under a great deal of pressure this year to show that it can do more than win in its own division. PITI'SBURGH: Even though the Pirates have some holes, they have enough raw talent to place second in this division. The talk around Pittsburgh this year is pitching with the acquisition of Bert. Blyleven and the loss of Rich Gossage and Terry Forster. 
But the Pirates will go as far as their bats and legs will take them. Much of the famed "Lumber Company" is history, but it has been replaced by -·speed. as the Bucs swiped 260 bases last year. 
A major contributor to the speed parade was rookie centerfielder Omar Moreno with 53. But Moreno will have to improve on his .240 batting average if the Pirates are to contend. 
The other big bat that the Pirates will need is that of 37-year old Willie Stargell. who is trying a comeback after playing in only 63 games last year. With the loss of AI Oliver in the Blyleven trade, the Bucs will need some production from Stargell or John Milner, a perennial hopeful 
-·acquired from the Mets. 
The Pirate dependables include Dave Parker and Rennie Stennett. who finished 1-2 in the NL batting race, 100-RBI man Bill Robinson, third baseman 'Phill Garner and "The Pittsburgh Stealer", shortstop Frank Taveras. who stole 70 bases last year. 
Now, to the weaknesses. Behind the plate, the Bucs will need a super contribution from Ed Ott or a trade for a newcomer. And, on the mound, they will look for comeback efforts from Jerry Reuss and Bruce Kison, both of whom are coming off poor seasons. Those two will need to join Blyleven, John Candelaria and Jim Rooker in the starting rotation. Righty Kent Tekulve is the lone reliable reliever and it's doubtful he can handle the load on his shoulders alone. 
The lack of depth in the pitching will probably lead to the Pirate downfall· as they will have a difficult tome equaling last year's total of 96 victories. ST. LOUIS: As uaual, the Redbird supporters are touting this yeu's 
group as the "darkhorse" contenders. and as usual. the Cards will leave 
thdr fans in a dark mood. The reasons are simple. no power and no 
pitching. Bing Devine tried to shore up the hurling in the off-season, but 
made no attempt to alleviate the power shortage. 
The Cards have three solid infielders with Keith Hernandez at first, 
Garry Templeton at short and Ken Reitz at third. Mike Tyson does an 
adequate job at second. 
In the outfield. Lou Brock, whose age ranges from 39 to 45 depending 
on who you believe, will platoon with Tony Scott in left. along with Jerry 
Mumphrey in center and Jerry Morales, 
and off-season steal from the Cubs, in right. As usual. Ted Simmons is 
thj~ catcher. 
On the mound, theCards need people to join Bob Forsch and a mediocre 
Eric Rasmussen in the starting rotation. Contenders include the 
oft-injured John Denny. John Urrea. Pete Falcone and newly-acquired 
Pete Vuckovich. -Unless something drastic happens. the Cards will look 
often to a decent bullpen where holdovers Butch Metzger and Buddy 
Schultz will share time with another newcomer, Mark Littell. Littell was 
acquired from Kansas City for AI Hrabosky in a trade that was caused by 
manager Vern Rapp and one that the Cards may regret. Littell has 
nothing but a wild fastball. a high ERA and memories of Chris Chambliss. 
The Cards wilJ.flrobablby be one of three .500 teams in this division. 
although they have the talent to go further if the pitching comes through. 
CHICAGO: This is the same team that refused to negotiate with a 
two-tfme batting champ last year and signed a one-dimensional player for 
2.5 million this year. The Cubs feel that Dave Kingman will give them their one missing dimension. power. but they will learn some other things about him .... l) he can't play the outfield. 2) he hits many homers with no men on base. 3) he is prone to tremendous slumps. 4) he can't handle pressure. of which there will be much and 5) he won't be able to face the Cub pitchers anymore. 
The Cubs could have found better ways to invest that much money. 
namely in some pitchers to go with their two-man staff of Rick Reuschel 
and Bruce Sutter. They have enough talent to win a division with some 
pitching, but a weak defensive player like Kingman does no good on a 
te21m without pitching. 
The Cubs are also without a proven centerfielder. Dave Rader will be an inprovement in catching. but Merritt Ranew would be an improvement over Steve Swisher and George Mitterwald. 
The Cubs have good depth. but without the arms. are just another .500 
te21m. 
MONTREAL: The folks north of the border are talking a .500 year for the 
Expos, their first ever. and it's quite possible. The reasons are a pair of 
left-handed pitchers named Rudy May and Ross Grimsley, aquired from 
Baltimore to combine with SteveRogers and Wayne Twitchell in the Expos' 
new pitching staff. 
Unfortunately, the Expos had to give up their entire bullpen, namely JoeKerrigan and Don Stanhouse, in the trade and that's why it will hard for them to move past many clubs. Otherwise, the NL rookie of the year, Andre Dawson, and the Expos are set in the outfield for years. 
Tony Perez and Dave Cash are solid on the right side of the infield, but thf: Expos need bigger bats from shortstop Chris' Speier and third sacker Larry Parrish. Former Mets Wayne Garrett and Del Unser provide good depth in the infield and outfield, respectively. 
Gary Carter had his finest season behind the plate last year with 31 homers and a .284 average while staying virtually injury-free. 
However, the Expos are counting on retread Darold Knowles to anchor the:ir bullpen. Need I say more. _ NEW YORK: The Mets are bad and they know it. Here is the classic case of mismanagement in professional sports. What was once a first-class organization with a first-class farm system is now strictly minor-league. 
Joe Torre began housecleaning last year as Jerry Grote went to Los Angeles. Soon to follow on their way out of New York were Jon Matlack, John Milner, Felix Millan, Roy Staiger, Bud Harrelson, Jackson Todd and Mile Vail. The Mets have new faces, they will score some more runs, but they will have problems getting people out. [Continued on page 11] 
The weekend homestand, which was abbreviated when Sunday's game with St. Mary's (MN) was postponed, left the Irish with a S-6-lledger. Notre Dame will host Valparaiso Wednesday afternoon. 
Gruden named t~~ football staff 
SOUTH BEND* IND. [AP] -Jim 
Gruden, an assistant football coach 
at Indiana University, has been 
hired for a similar post at Notre 
Dame, Irish Coach Dan Devine 
announced Thursday. 
The 41-year-old Cleveland native 
replaces Hank Kuhlman, who 
joined the coaching staff of the 
chicago Bears of the Naional Foot­
ball League. 
Gruden, who has a master's 
df'greee in physical education from 
IU, coached for :our years at the 
University of Day,on before joining 
Hoosier Coach Lee Corso's staff in 
1973. 
Just for the fun of it! 
SCOTI'SDALE, Ariz. [AP] ­Lyman Bostock used to come home with his pants dirty from diving for grounders, his shirt ripped from sliding into home and his shoes falljng apart from hours spent chasing fly balls. 
His mother was pleased. "Any­time I came home in that kind of shap<:, my mother knew that I'd been playing baseball," said the California Angels' outfielder. "The kids who weren't playing baseball were usually getting into some kind of trouble." 
His. mom has reason to be proud of her son now. Bostock, 27, is quite a baseball player -a .318 batting average his three years in the major leagues -and one of the game's rich men. He signed as a free agent with California and got a 5-year l"Ontract worth a reported $2.25 million. 
That was a remarkable salary jump. Although hitting a hefty .336 in 1977, he made just $20,000 with the Minnesota Twins. 
And his mother can be proud of the way he wears his new wealth. He's bought no Rolls-Royces, is still a family man, still devotes time to youth activities and apparently remains completely unaffected. 
"Money's not my line," he says. 
''I play baseball because I love the game. I can't say it isn't good to have the money, because it is. But I'm not going to get ridiculous about it. 
"It's · nice they pay me that much, but if I wasn't in the major leagues I'd be out playing with some pickup team for fun." 









